

BILACK & WHITE
m
*T '•
WWW
1?
si
r.
&*rj i;C;
■
■- ■ .
'
SI
>
s
as
SSI
IS
■
HUS
m
SS""f
SCOTCH WHISKY
* .
'.'l;- ' , ;
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
7io2£ Jmcal '50604 cJaUu^Ca^/
Vol 49.—N0. 2524.
Wednesday, June 27, 1928.
Price 6eL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


-THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
* 1928 is now ready, and will be for-
warded with full particulars and terms on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
“Liye for the day,” and keep pegging- away,
Seize all your chances and . cut out delay,
Never be hindered by doubt or by dread,
Forget all your failures and forge ahead.
When ailments arise, as ailments will do,
Forget rfot the others who suffer like you,
For coughs and colds as a remedy sure,
Becommend Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
Learn
Story Writing
This BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
12
lO
11
9
io
IO
Ml
They who wear Elgin
have both admiring eyes and the
correct time upon their wrists.
Your ELGIN Watch, whether of the
wristlet or vest pocket variety, is both
accurate and beautiful.
For many years ELGIN has been re-
garded as the world’s standard for
watch integrity.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
c s>lg
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
fracte Mark in the Watch Cape
/I
Ole/ thatholds
The first, tough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
;• planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive . , call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS Whether it be for the building'of a
battle-ship or rhe design of a simple household
article, the nine’! is the first requirement: the
VENUS the firs!: oencil.
sdf
V • . - • •
17 Blacklead Degrees 68-9 H sd. each ■ 4/9 per dozen, Super Copying (Medium & Hard) 6d.
each - 5/9 per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
Gl
II
The Cigar of generous size and weighi.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
sdf
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free,
Si
a
ii
CRAIG an
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!
HUDSONS Eumenthol Jujubes
AN IDEAL REMEDY For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
moKAk wam'wi
o's’ v
H U
SON
5T
-^2r
Bronchitis, Influenza.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says:—“Proved to be effective bac-
terieidally as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
do not interfere with the Digestion; on the contrary,
they have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the food
when taken after meals.
The Red Page
Publicity
The time required for a previously
obscure actress to become an intellectual
chutney of George Sand, Schopenhauer and
Frederick Lonsdale, and a lady of mani-
fold manual accomplishments withal, is
usually the live minutes' demanded by the
press-agent for the composition of her bio-
graphy. Nowadays a perfectly common-
place young woman can come to Australia
from her native Cardiff or Allentown, Pa.,
secure in the belief that some tradesman
of the copy desk will exhibit her as a
wonder girl beside whdm Admirable Crich-
ton was a bed-ridden rheumatic with a one-
way mind. Publicity performs amazing
miracles in this Commonwealth. The daily
newspapers are the vehicles of guff about
theatricals that would turn the stomach of
a Moscow warder. Adulatory bilge asserting
the gem-like qualities of some identity that
is devastatingly paste on a personal contact
is allowed to flow in where frequently not
a word about a worthier person is allowed
to tread. There is no discrimination about
this blither. On the battlefields of footle
the apparently plausible and the openly
imbecile alike receive the editorial D.S.O.
Formerly an actress (or - actor) was con-
tent to lead a simple life within the straight-
jacket of her (or his) definition, and there
was no thought in those dear, ill-paid days
of leading a multiple existence in a spot-
lit procession of paragraphs and pictures
as a thrice world’s champion in rounders, a
connoisseur of Freed Verse and a Professor
of Abyssinian Hieroglyphs. Irving was then
Irving; Mrs. Patrick Campbell remained
protuberantlv a leading woman; and a
Duse demonstrated her sense of the fitting
by declaring nothing but her art. Then
came the first beat of the tom-toms on
Broadway. The means devised to adver-
tise stars were often, the work of those old
partners, Bedlam and Beer; but some stunts
were ingenious and there was not a little
pathos in the first broadsides of the sob-
smiths anent the unbreakable attachments
between actresses and their mothers. One
American manager alone was hot for reti-
cence. He was that supreme diplomatist,
the late Charles Frolunan. He went to
the length of ordering his most expensive
sirens to keep their views on William
Morris, pancakes, the agriculture of Thibet
and numerous other pressing problems
parked in their own fair bosoms, and
ukased further that they were never to
reveal themselves socially, arguing, in many
cases correctly, that the public curiosity is
most intrigued bjr those of whom it knows
nothing.
But we in Australia hold no such heresy.
Should a lavish Australian management
scoop up a grand-opera company from the
hordes of wayback songsters who are given
away with packets of macaroni in Apennine
villages, then a local typewriter is immedi-
ately at work announcing that the “artists”
are all from La Scala and that Italy is in
crepe because they are leaving the coun-
try. Nothing is too banal or too crude for
local consumption. We are accustomed to
have bulgy eyes and torn hearts over the
agonies of musicians who have been parti-
ally eaten by Bolsheviks and can still show
the scars. Then we are invited to declare
festas over beautiful exponents of drawing-
room comedy who are ready to apologise
in 16 languages, including Urdu and 3LO,
because their ordinary conversation is only
one damned epigram after another. With
these creatures their “Nice day?” is a bon
mot, their “How-de-do?” an intellectual
recreation.
Lately there arrived in Australia an act-
ress named Margaret Bannerman. She is,
I know, of no consuming consequence in
a metropolis where the name of Sybil
Thorndike is bandied about. But the sylph
had hardly breasted through the Customs
at Melbourne before she was being raced
from menu to menu, many expensive, many
superfluous, but nearly all graced by the
supercrania of the arts and commerce.
Publicity in this case essayed the service
of observing that the goddess was prepon-
derantly intelligent, little recking that in-
telligence was necessary and even disfigur-
ing in the vehicles selected for her use
and most certainly absurd in a nlay which,
with all its hypothetical flouncings on the
arm of M. Jeu d’Esprit, was obviously
written for Smut’s sweet sake. The result
was that the public which went to “Our
Betters” expecting to encounter another
Irene Vanbrugh merely beheld a procession
of trained smiles and attitudes following
each other in the melancholy goosestep of
the light-comedy mechanism. Miss Banner-
man is as charming as may be, but remem-
bering the imaginary cubits that had been
added to her dramatic stature for days be-
fore her opening it was almost cruel to be-
hold the reality. The fierce spotlight of a
premiere is often a reductio ad absurdum
for which publicity in all its mischievous
ramblings must take the blame.
C. R. BRADISH.
The Modern Drift
In his arresting book, “The Day After
To-morrow,” Sir Philip Gibbs draws the
conclusion that in the absence of some
countering movement or widely assertive
influence the world is doomed. Life at the
present moment is, he thinks, heading to-
wards world-wreckage.
The basis of this deduction is the belief
that the mentality and morals of the human
race are not keeping pace with scientific
advances in practically every field. In set-
ting forth his evidence he speaks as a jour-
nalist rather than as a man of science. In
other words, he collects his data from many
sources. But the sources are always
authoritative, and the work of collecting
has been reliably done.
He is impressed b.y the enormous pro-
gress within the realm of scientific dis-
covery and its adaptation to mechanical
appliances. He sees tlie traffic of the
earth’s surface in process of being discarded
for that of the air, the employment of
previously unthought-of sources of motive
power in anticipation of the exhaustion of
the coal supplies of the planet, and numer-
ous other advances in science and
mechanics. Side by side with this, how-
ever, is the ominous fact that the men-
tality—not to mention the physical organ-
ism—of mankind is practically stationary,
if not indeed on the decline.
The apparent contradiction involved in
this statement is explainable by the fact
that, while a high degree of mental quality
is possessed by scientists and inventors, as
well as by individuals engaged in profes-
sional and business pursuits* the general
level of human intellect is receding, or at
best is at a standstill. In a way, this con-
dition of things is but natural. The one
condition is very largely—though not neces-
sarily—the result of the other. We have
become so accustomed to having things
done for us at the expense of other people’s
intellectual exertion that we are becoming
slow to exert ourselves intellectually. The
widespread use of machinery as a means of
material productiveness obviously reduces
the number of skilled workmen in the
realms affected; while in the world of
music the gramophone and the pianola
have wrought for a similar reduction in the
number of vocal and instrumental artists.
Also the overwhelming amount of enter-
tainment and amusement literally pumped
into the human mind by broadcasting and
the cinema is calculated to make for the
drugging rather than the stimulation of the
intellect.
Discerning this, many men of science are
giving their attention to efforts for the
stimulation and advancement of human
qualities. By experiments on glands and
organs, in the way of infusions, graftings
and what not, the span of life is being
sought to bo lengthened, and the mind of
man improved in capacity. As regards
mental attainment, we are promised much
from the employment of telepathy, along
with numerous other possibilities of the sub-
conscious mind.
The weak link in this chain of physical
and mental development is the uncertainty
as to what men and women are going to
do with this stupendous command of new
powers. It is an ominous fact that man
“is not developing any new moral sense
which will secure him from the evil use
of those powers.” Professor Soddy, an
eminent chemist, is of the opinion that
“human ideals have not progressed to keep
pace with the growth of science. They are
ideals that cannot exist with science with-
out wrecking the world.”
It does not need the wealth of quotation
employed by Sir Philip Gibbs to convince
thoughtful minds of the very real danger
that threatens. With a fa'irly large propor-
tion of people it is coming to be a settled
notion that civilisation is hastening head-
long to its own extermination. A short
time back a leading man of science placed
the limit of its survival at 200 years hence.
Obviously, the position is a most serious
one, not alone from a moral point of view,
but from every other. If, as Sir Philip
Gibbs concludes, “jngn is to become his
own architect,” it behoves him to consider
what kind of structure he is making of
himself and of the collective life around
him.
The power to make and keep life secure
must ever -be more and greater than
material. Man’s moral nature requires a
moral dynamic to keep it normal, not -to
mention its development on to higher
levels. More than that, man is a spiritual
being, with spiritual affinities and needs. Sir
Philip Gibbs is clear and insistent on the
(Continued on page 5.)


“ Truth in Advertising
Our assurance at all times .
Compare quality for quality and price for price—and so prove that
Anthony Horderns’
Offer the Best Values Possible
JA
4?*
China Salad Set
Thin China with Brown shaded lustre
and sprigs of flowers. The set com-
prises 1 Bowl, Bin. diameter, and 6
Fruit Saucers. Per Set 3/9
I
Paragon China Tea Set
Tea Set, made from Paragon China,
well known for its high quality and
long service. Twenty-one pieces in
all. Comprising 6 Cups and Saucers,
6 Bread and Butter Plates, small Basin,
1 Milk Jug and 1 Basin. Per Set, 30/-
mutt*
Glass Water Set
consisting of 7 pieces. In plain, neat
design. One squat-shape Jug an.d six
tall Goblets to match the jug.
Per Set
7/3
&
15ft
4
c Piece j
A
Toilet Sets
Toilet Sets in Embossed Graniteware.
pattern. The set consists of I
Ewer and Basin, 1 Chamber, 1 Soap
Dish. Best quality English goods.
Per Set 15/6
Also Embossed Graniteware. Wheat
pattern. Ewers and Basins.
Per Pair 11/-
( Crockery Department, Third Floor.)
Carnage Not Paid.
’Phone M 2401.
Any Hour Day and Night
Whatever the hour, day and night, you
may always ’phone your order through
to Anthony Horderns’. The usual
prompt attention will be given. Just
ring our ordinary number, M 2401.
The New
Improved
“UNI”
Sold Only by Anthony Horderns’
The New Improved “UNI” Electric Vacuum
Cleaner is a scientific but simple machine that
lightens the labor of cleaning. Its operation
is amazingly simple. The nozzle makes a sealed
contact with the rug, lifts it slightly and
opens the pile, extracting the most deeply-
embedded dust and dirt. Weighs only 1 Oilb. Solid
cast aluminium frame. The “UNI” is fully guaran-
teed. It may be connected to any electric light
or power socket. Supplied with clean-
ing attachments complete. Price . . .
n Ipy I
i I 4 ( m
( Department, Second Floor.) Carriage Not Paid.
USE OUR D.P.S.
The Deposit-Purchase System enables
you to take full advantage of
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices
Simply leave a deposit and pay off the
balance in convenient instalments.
You pay the cash price only. No
interest or extra charge.
■/-
I
K'js ssasees
ja^asagasag:# 1
The Regent Electric Fire. A handsome
cast-iron design finished oxidised
copper, giving evenly-distributed heat
and sufficient to heat the largest rooms.
Three-heat control; 3000 watts. Over-
all dimensions, 1 7in. x 22in. x 4i}:in.
Price £5/17/6
m
PppCCTI
Electric Fire Adam Design. This
splendid electric fire has embodied in
it all the characteristics of a coal fire.
The glowing coals, the warmth, the
comfort all this combined, but with-
out the dirt and inconvenience that is
associated with fuel-type fires. Sturdily
constructed of cast iron. Finished
antique brass. Consumes 1500 watts.
Price £B/8/-
Q
The Imperial is a neat design that
readily lends itself to use in the office
or the home. Made of cast iron suit-
ably relieved and finished oxidised
copper. Fitted with 12-inch copper
reflector. 1 000-watt element.
Price
65/6
m
mss
W,
The Century is a charming period
design that presents a fine appearance
in the home or office. Sturdily con-
structed of cast iron, finished oxidised
copper. Fitted with 12-inch copper
reflector. 1000 watts. Price .. 63/6
(Electrical Department, Second Floor.)
Carriage Not Paid.
Anthony Horderns:
Telephone No,
/V 12401 Day and Night
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.
Anthony Hordern (EX Sons Limited, Sydney


£
-3
n,
ar
X
\
m
Altogether or part bij part
Worlds Crea test Va lu e
Longer, roomier, lower slung this
new Essex creates an immediate im-
pression of beauty. Whether you re-
gard the car as a whole or examine
it in detail you receive the impression
of completeness associated only with
the costliest cars.
New patterned velour upholstery,
beautiful to the eye; quality to the
touch; the handsome hard rubber
wheel, with a steel core for strength;
the ebony finished instrument board
with grouped instruments, indirectly
lighted, carrying also the starter and
electro-lock.
Powered with the famous Super-Six
motor that turns waste heat into
power, this Essex is the ideal car.
Examine this, the greatest Essex ever
built. Ride in it. Drive it yourself.
You will agree it is the “World’s
Greatest Motor Car Value.”
The New Super-
ESSEX Sh
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DISTRIBUTORS;
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
WHATMORE McINTOSH motors, ltd., h. c. heathorn & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane. Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUT FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
NEW ESSEX PRICES WITH FIVE-TYRE EQUIPMENT:
Essex Tourer, Australian Body . . £270
~ Roadster, Australian Body. . 270
~ Coach, Australian Body .. . 330
~ Coach, Imported Body .... 350
Essex Coupe, Imp. Body (Rumble
Seat) £365
„ Sedan, Australian Body .. . 345
„ Sedan, Imported Body .... 370
Why
Essex Values
Loom So Large
A Few Typical
Values
sd
Bendix
four-wheel
brakes
f
Black hard
rubber steering
wheel with steel
core; carrying
horn button.
sdf
Radiator shut-
ters a feature
found only on the
more costly cars
sd
Essex coach
front seats
slide forward
on a patented
base so that
rear seat pas-
sengers can
enter without
front seat rid-
ers gettingout


Hurry!
any steed will do
BARGAINS for MEN
Such bargains too ! Good, high-grade, serviceable articles of men’s
wear, taken from absolutely new stocks, and offered at prices that
demonstrate the wisdom of hurrying. The few below are to show
you the values—both our Men’s Stores are literally overflowing
with similar offers. Hurry 1
The thrifty will not fail to note this offer 1 Good quality Poplin
Shirts with collar to match that has twin tabs and stiffeners.
Huge variety of designs and colors. All sizes. Usually, 12/6
Sale Offer at .. .. .. 8/11
Complete stock of 3/6 Broadend Ties to be disposed of at less
than half price. All wanted colors and designs included in the
range. Usually, 3/6. Sale Price, each .. .. 1/8
You can save 2/- not counting the Cash discount on these
winter-weight Ceylonette Pyjamas. Many woven stripe designs
to choose from. All sizes. Usually 13/6. Sale Price, 11/6
Socks m many fancy jacquard designs that usually cost you 7/6,
if purchased during Sale, pair .. ... ..3/11
Less 2/- in the £ for Cash
DAVID JONES’
SALE
Castlereagh, Market and Elizabeth Streets
Branch Men’s Store, opposite G.P.O.
point that the force that is to make and
keep life secure must be a distinctly reli-
gious one.
It is a fortunate thing that the argument
from tendencies can never be conclusive,
because no one can tell what contrary ten-
dencies may enter into the case as time
and life proceed. It remains only that we
should hope and work for the best.
G. C. PERCIVAL.
Austin Clarke
There are as many Irish poets as there
are larks in a morning, and the Celtic
renascence that emerged from a mist of
lark notes is fading in a mist of lark notes.
i T ou hear a choir, but not a bird. It is
good, then, to hear one note above the
rest. Austin Clarke seems to be the best
of the moderns; that is, the young mod-
erns. The book so long sought for in
shops here fell on me in a Yule shower.
I do not know what I was expecting, a
cross between “Innisfree” and “The Crock
of Gold” probably; but whatever it was,
I did not get it. Austin Clarke owes no-
thing to either. Stephens, that little
wizened “wonder of the west,” wrote a
book of translations once and called it re-
incarnations. The themes were Gaelic, but
you could never forget that the singer was
Stephens. When you read Austin Clarke
you forget Austin Clarke. He is the
destined prince that wakens Ancient Ire-
land. There is a stir and a tremble and
once more her hour-glasses run; the meat
sizzles on the great spits in her kitchens;
the honey-bees leave the combs; and the
long, thin boats bring wine and brandy into
Galway waters. He makes the world over
till we stand, resentful changelings, lost and
sore. He does it too well. That is our
quarrel with him. It is a new Ireland, and
already there are so many Irelands.
But, how the sweet names melt into the
rhymes! He makes you see Tory, Croagh
Patrick and the ghosts of old galleons
by Arran. Torches blow like furze-
heads on the rain-sodden ramparts of Tara.
One moment he is the Son of Lir crying
that he saw
Sunward, behind a black skerry,
The goldskin sails of Brail.
The next he is fidl of the swagger of
bardry—
My song is greater than your hoard,
Although no running children know it
Between the sea and the windy stones.
It reminds one of the passionate cry of an-
other poet that the woman of the Gerald-
ines would not ask back the cloak she
gave him, nor treat a poet less than
daintily.
He explains somewhere that, though
most of the poems are based on assonance
and feminine or stopped rhyme, they are
not necessarily an attempt to suggest the
intricate prosody of Gaelic verse. Was this
to stave off critics like Sigerson and Hyde,
who know the old manuscripts as a bird
knows its claw? They might question the
letter occasionally, but they cannot ques-
tion the spirit.
The greatest effort in the book is “The
Cattle-drive in Connaught.” It is sug-
gested by the Pillow Talk at Cruachaa,
the Prologue to the Tain Bo Cualigne. All
students of the Gaelic know this saga, the
tale of the great cattle war of north and
west. Almost every modern poet has
attempted some resurrection of the theme.
Ledwidge was lyric, not' epic, but one line
of his on Maeve lingers. “My love went
wild with all my wars in youth,” she says
to the dying Ailill. Clarke’s Maeve knows
no such softness. She is the fierce, un-
snivelling pagan flamehead of the original
saga. The wording is free, as free as
Shakspeare’s, but coarse, not prurient. It
is magnificent from the first pummelling
of the sleep-ridden Ailill to the cry of
Maeve’s messenger that she would come
and take the bull with hooks of fire.
But it is in the shorter lyrics that his
peculiar power over metre is shown. The
lines run breathless and wild—
Over the stony fields
That sharpen the hook in Connaught,
Alone with the drenching sky '
Through eloudish grass I ran
By the waters of black swimming
Until the trees began.
He has more of the Celtic stresses and the
Celtic idiom than either Yeats or Stephens,
and he has a hostage to fame in the resur-
rection of old metres, for he who invents
a new form or revives an old one makes a
bid at least for remembrance. Housman’s
hypermetres, deftly varied, will save him,
and Walt Whitman’s tide-like hesitancy of
returns and withdrawals will always be dis-
tinctive, if not always admired.
Ireland has been rather scornful con-
cerning souls, since the Treaty. The doc-
trinaire and the idealist have found beds
with the foxes. There has been a distinct
reaction, a swinging of the pendulum to-
wards cynicism. Symbols that were once
loved are denounced as shibboleths, but it
will be a long time before Ireland shelves
the symbolism of the silk of the kine. What
would a foreigner make of a land that takes
a soft, slow-breathing heifer as its sign and
token? He must remember that Ireland is
a land of cows, and do his best to worry
out the meaning of this, that to the Irish
at least is heavenly clear:—
When the black herds of the wind were grazing
In the gap of the pure cold wind,
And the watery hazes of hazel
Brought her into my mind,
I thought of the last honey by the water
That no hive can find.
Austin Clarke is born too late. Had he
been bom in the dawn of the renascence
instead of in its sunset he would have had
his due. But even the choir’s swell is
thinner. The larks are dropping down to
their nests.
EILEEN DUGGAN.
A Literary Artesian Bore
Australia was short of We drilled
bores thousands of feet into the dry plains
and water gushed forth in millions of gal-
lons. We should now do some drilling in
other ways.
The Australian aborigine is amongst the
most misunderstood of beings. His ways
are not our ways. Despite our arrogant
assumption of superiority, we find it just
as hard to follow his reasoning and account
for his intentions, his likes and dislikes,
his inherited tendencies, his aims and de-
sires as he does to understand ours. We
live on different mental, moral and spiritual
planes. Our blackfellows know by intuition,
or by some acuteness that we do not pos-
sess, things that are hidden to us. As
migrating birds know by a sense we do not
understand the time to set out on their
journey, sometimes earlier in the season,
sometimes later, so the aborigines, especi-
ally those of the interior, sense things that
white men cannot detect.
It is quite understandable. The Austra-
lian blacks have lived always in close touch
with nature. Before being contaminated
and degraded their minds were unspoiled,
their intuition was not dulled. For them
the only real things were the things of
nature, the sun, the moon and the stars,
the wind in the trees, the dew on the
grass, the dust, the clouds and the rain;
things by which they were surrounded and
with which they were in constant contact.
The past was a mystery, the present a
mystery, the future a mystery. All they knew
was that some things were plain and mani-
fest and that more, many more in their
belief, were but dimly seen, hardly to be
come in contact with. To them the grop~
ings and guessings of an Oliver Lodge or a
Conan Doyle would have been nothing
new and most assuredly not to be laughed
at. If these men said they saw those things,
why not? Does not everyone see things
that others do not see?
It is the wisdom of the ages, gathered
from the ages. For there are reasons to
believe that the Australian aborigines may
be the heirs of the earliest of human be-
ings. It is known that their religious
rites are as old as, if not older than, any-
thing to be found. Their gods have never
changed. Nor have their views of life.
Unspoiled our aborigines are kindly,
poetical, imaginative, and, with their prac-
tical turn, capable of saving the situation
in times of drought or hardship that with-
out them would mean death to the most
intelligent of educated beings, as we know
the word. To us, education is a collective
term meaning knowledge of the aggregate
experience of civilisation. To our blacks
education is an individual matter; they
niust know their own relation to nature and
its laws—they need know little or nothing
beyond this. Their knowledge is not that
of the library but of the open spaces. And
since we as a people know nothing, or next
to nothing, of the everlasting laws of the
open spaces; since much of our literature
and many of the statutes under which we
live are in direct contravention of those
laws, we do not understand. If we ever do,
which is becoming less likely as our abo-
rigines fade before us, the world will be
startled by a new outlook on life and a
fresh source of supply for art and literature.
W. M. FLEMING.
Novels Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee of judges nominated by the Associ-
ated Booksellers of Australia and New
Zealand:—
General Literature.—Christ at the Round
Table, by E. Stanley Jones; The Dragon
and the Lotus, by Crosbie Garston; The
May the World Is Going, by H. G. Wells;
The Letters of Queen Victoria, by George
Earle Ruckle; Honor or Dollars, by. Anon ;‘s
Linden, by Franz Joseph; By Devious Ways,
by Dr. Halford Jones; Australian Steam-'
ships by Dickson Gregory Portraits of the
New Century, by E. T. Raymond.
Books of Literary Merits Wintersmoon,
by Hugh Walpslej Crusade, by Donn Byrne;
Death Comes for the Archbishop, by Willa
Gather; Jen by-Mrs. Alfred Wingate; Here
Comes an Old Sailor, by A. T. Sheppard.
Books for Popular Reading. —The Plough
by Naomi Jacob; Martie and Others in
lihodesia, by Sheila Macdonald; Winters-
moon, by Hugh Walpole; Crusade, by Donn
i lights by Grace Richmond;
Vuld, Wdd Heart, by Rosemary Rees; The
Sun Man by Jack McLaren; The Portrait
Invisible, by Joseph Gollomb; Here Comes
IT. OW Sailor, by A. T. Sheppard; Let Us
Highly Resolve, by Gene Stratton Porter;
Death Comes for the Archbishop, by Willa
Gather; Debonair, by G. B. Stern.
A Satchel of Books
The Misty Pathway, by Florence Riddell
(Bles). A typist in London wins £5OOO, and
goes to Mombassa to follow the Prince
Charming of her dreams. She finds him with
unofficial wife, and that is the beginning
of the romance. For people whose literary
palate isn’t very discerning.
The Constant Simp, by Nell Martin (Wer-
ner Laurie). Here’s laughter—an irresistible
torrent of it through all the 249 pages.
Maisie St. Clair is a heroine with a diifer-
enee In her purple Tam and red sandals
she takes you captive just as she did the
law courts of New York. The humor is not
sly or subtle. It is the sort that doubles
you up as suddenly as an unexpected blow
below the belt. Maisie is that rare thing
among heroines—a new creation
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No Liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Ahkee: Thanks for the suggestion, bnt
afraid it can’t be done without breaking faith. Later,
perhaps. .. .The Girl: Why, that’s what the discus-
sion started with A.L.8.: The point isn’t sharp
enough.... Herk: Cables and wireless beat you for
every detail... .Cromarty: Too many phrases too
obviously thrown in for rhyming purposes.... Pens-
man: Your ear wants tuning... .Judith 0.: Lazy
rhyming M.J.Y.: Sorry, not suitable... .Iris N.:
The main idea is worn to shreds R.W.: Ditto.
Edwin W.: All but A.R.T.: Quite right;
that word “average” 'shouldn’t have been used there.
It is inconsistent with the rest of the article
Say O.:—
Thou bloom of womanhood, named for that modest
flower
That makes the English meadow bright and glad,
Why keep me waiting, waste the sunny hour,
When love’s uncertainty doth drive me mad?
We prefer “Daisy, Daisy,. Give Me Your Answer, Do.”
. ...W.C.C.: Your “short story” has two defects. It
is not short and it is not a story.... Dunbar: We’ve
no desire io wake you. .. .N.8.D.: Story a strange bit
of unreality; verses no good at a 11... .Gamma; No
opening here for “Gates” H.M.C. : Remarkable—but
what is it meant to be? W. J. Mac: Told your
maiden to be a good girl and go straight home....
C.F.W.: Is it a story or a fit of hysterics ?.... Swast:
Verse —and everything else used—is paid for. If it is
not worth payment it is not worth space. But unless
you can grow a new ear, your ambition seems
hopeless... .C.R.G'.: You almost made a. good point.
. ...R.A.8.: Doesn’t quite get there... .J. 0.8.: The
development of character is excellent; somehow' plot
seems to be sacrificed to it.... Eve M.: We simply
hate the idea of “the song caught on a crooked
hough”... .Paul H.: We’ll try to forget “Forgetting.”
. . . .Felice: A poor attempt Dordthy S. : We don’t
care for it; some other paper might.... B.C.
(Manly): It would have been a humorous story if
you had onl* put some humor into it.... Ben G.:
Interested in “The Portrait.” Is the end fact or
fiction?... .Will B. : Stilted monotony.... Horn B.:
It’s an old ’un....Ross G.: Out of eight attempts
to rhyme you got “beyond—sun” ; “dream—seas”
and “rush—dust”. .. .K.D.: Watch that tendency to
seek mere sound.... Z.V.W.: Ghost chased away....
Simon D.: The coward-hero has been w’orked to
dea th.... C. (M.L.) : Written evidently to suit the
title “Disordination of the Visual Faculty”—a
remarkable heading for a “drunk” verse. . . .Bellerive:
The breathless story of your youth:—
I was wending o’er a paddock
In the silence of the night;
Not a breath of wind did ripple,
The stars were shining bright.
In the darkness I collided
Against a prowling cow,
Which gave me such a shacken
Sweat trickled from my brow.
Disturbed, so unexpected, "
The cow began to moo;
I sprinted o’er the paddock
With fear that she’d pursue.
I safely reached my domicile,
Which stood within a row.
I was as active as a. rabbit
Over twenty years ago.
R.R.M.: Calling Kingston! Smith “the Charon
of the Clouds” is pretty tough.,.. .8.G.5.: “The
Dog” was a savage brute. He must have eaten the
stamps on the way down.... Ella M.: She was a
heroine if she accepted the lover who said “The
opportunity to profess the protestations of my undying
love is the culmination of my fondest anticipations.’'
....Arthur G.: Wants something to make the uta-
dutiful daughters reasonable... .Chas. H.: Uncon-
vincing. .. .Neuter: Not very entertaining... .K.D.S. :
Should do elsewhere... .P.M.R.: A little bit off
“The Top” goes into “Smoke-0h” ..., Smack : “These
Men” won’t do, but it suggests that you can write
something that wi11 .... Lantana : Good advice, poor
verse... .N.S.M.: The building is too obvious....
Ralph 1).: Darkness fell on it. ... J.C.T.: It suffers
from general debility.... Ivy: The conversations
tangle themselves W.W.A.: That ghost is in-
capable of a thrill.... R.J.J.A.: And what happened?
. ...Reo: A tattered fragment... . E.M.L.: Do you
write down everything you think—or do you dis-
pense with thinking?... .T.J/.lj. : Falls short in
interest... .E.J.C.: Misses... .M.E.F.: It’s left in
mid-air Mart W.: Not well enough handled
P.D. B.: No promise in them.... W.L.: You drew a
blank. .. .C.S.D. (Wilts, Eng.): Stereotyped.... T.
Ries: Doesn’t make a story... . A.E.Y.: Needs
crisper treatment... .Undergrad: Doesn’t earn its
pass... .8.G.L.: Curious conclusion that, in “Exile.”
. ...Deirdre T.: Poor stuff.... P.P.: No touch of
real feeling in it. . . .R.F.C.: That howl for the gum-
trees and the hills comes in a dozen times a week....
K. : Not bad as far as it goes. It’s unfinished....
L. : There’s a new dead girl in each of the
verses. You must run a private cemetery.... H.C.:
No general interest, and the verse is p00r... ..Joan
A.: The “brown—abound” rhyme is not its worst
offence... .F.M. (Omeo) : Parts of it were well
written, but it was hard to know where the thing
was going even before you left out a leaf or 50... .
K.J.C.: Your jewels cannot shine here. .. .Lai. M.:
So that's your idea of “a tenderhearted woman”!
.... Evelyn F.: Likeable story, but too many words
are used.... H.W.: It took too long to slaughter the
bird. . . .T.W.R.: Short stories, serious verse and the
like are paid for on acceptance; topical matter on
publication. Certainly you may try some other shop
if there is no apparent decision within a month....
•i.R.D.: “Strives —multiplies” is your most heroic
effort.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.J.T.: Couldn’t digest the joke, and the drawing
didn’t tempt us C.F.L.: Head study very stiff ;
let us see some full-length efforts K.T.: Shapeless
blobs in a maze of vertical lines W.L.: You
have a style of your own, but it is too wild altogether.
J.M.: Idea not mirthful enough C.L.: Hope-
less E..1.P.: It wasted our time W.A.L.: AVe
are not amused P.0.D.: See what you can do
on a larger scale W.H.C.J.: One is old; in the
other the malapropism is overstressed... .L.G.M.C.:
Cannot see you being hailed as the Australian Heath
Robinson... .V.T.: Mercifully suppressed... .T.M.D.:
You break down when you try to draw anything
larger than an inkwell K.S.: Joke sent to Service
Department to solve; drawing consigned to w.p.b.
.. . . D.J.: What is the husband doing up among the
spider webs?.... J.H.V.: Home they go—or will if
you send stamps.


9
a
Jim
m
m
&
:
'V.
MSM
-
W
I
■
H
> 'fg
*’ «. -v
' K JE
M' 1 j
m
,
m
m
Ik
a
m
m
; warn
warn
m
mmm
•-HH
ft ■■ V : ' ; ftft./ft


The Bulletin
Vol. 49.—N0. 2524.
June 27, 1028.
NO CAUSE FOR ALARM THIS TIME.
"The lastest feature of Soviet piopaganda is anti-Semitic. In Russia there have been outbreaks of violence against Jews, and similar outrages are being urged elsewhere.”
“Who’s dere? Vat do you vant?”
“It’s all right. We’re only Australian politicians!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Alan.’
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for ihn
Bulletin' Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the ofhce of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.b.w.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
Brisbane Office: 249 Adelaide Street c ,
London Office : 36 Southampton Street, Stra ,
W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted tO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, UHseKly .
12 months, £l 1,5.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, Al Ills., o
months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney. .
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
’ 6] The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Talers
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, sa/y,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
i uill be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Jltit
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. 1 er-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it 'S not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suagcsti.on only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions, will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in the Slain Hall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.I, j and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.1,;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 1/0 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” 1,11,-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.C.3.’
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban f
lihodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley : and
others.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co.. HU East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Rost Office
News Co,, S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency. S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and, l/2nd Street, New York City; Ilotnliny’s
News Agency, 203 West I,lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co.. Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 701, Market Street. San Francisco;
Wallace, The, New Orleans News Man. 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans. La.: The Wide World News
Stand, 51,1 k South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Smith Bros.’ News Co., Box 573 Arcade Station, Los
Angeles, Cal.
Kcy ft. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 696 Redder Street,
Ilong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, S.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon.— T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bookstall, Galle Face Hotel,
Colombo; M. Almaram and Sons, l,h Chatham Street,
Fo-rt Colombo; A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York
Street, Fort Colombo; The Colonial Photographic
Co., York Arcade, Fort Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros.. Samurai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker. Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising: Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.1,-
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) -.—Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
10oz.\ Id. United Kingdom: l,oz. to 10oz., ltd.; each
additional 1,0 z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l,oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z.. Id.
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 27, 1928.
WHY MEN ARE OUT OF WORK.
The Development and Migration Commis-
sion, having been in labor over Australia’s
problem of unemployment, has brought
forth its mouse —a recommendation, in
short, that statisticians and professors should
be set to work to trace curves and pursue
cycles so that we shall know when to expect
men to be out of work and how many of
them there will be. In view of the informa-
tion thus provided the seven Governments
are recommended to take counsel together
and plan their programmes of public works
accordingly. The Commission also thinks
that more attention should be paid to the
training of business managers. Possibly it
would not do any harm to adopt all these
recommendations. Indeed, it would be im-
possible to deter statisticians and econo-
mists from compiling masses of figures and
making deductions from them. But when
all is said and done, Australia, like other
countries so affected, doesn’t suffer from un-
employment because of a dearth of professors
and statisticians, but from an inability to
find its population an adequate amount of
useful work.
* * * *
Largely—very largely—this inability to
find an adequate amount of work is a
result of allowing other nations to supply
our requirements in the way of manufac-
tured goods. Our industrial population can
be roughly grouped into three classes —
farming, manufacturing and day-laboring.
The third class is far too large for comfort
and safety. Even the Commission has a
dim realisation of this basic fact, for it
sandwiches amongst its large talk about
professors and advisory committees a plea
for more attention to vocational training.
Now, vocational training is all right—we
already have a very good system—but it
is not a complete solution of the Australian
difficulty, by any means. The whole trend
of wage-bargaining in the Arbitration Courts
for 20 years past has been to lessen the
status and pay of the skilled worker by
bringing the unskilled worker nearer and
nearer to a parity with him. A strong lad
of 17, leaving school, has the choice of serv-
ing some years of apprenticeship at a trade,
at a comparatively low wage, or of immedi-
ately earning, as a laborer, not very much
less than his father can at a skilled occupa-
tion. The lad’s choice is not difficult to
forecast. So facilities for vocational train-
ing are not going to carry us very far unless
they can be combined with somethmg else.
Jj: i\: »!t ❖
Maybe it is impossible to draw up any
programme for the complete banishment of
unemployment. Maybe precisely the same
plan is not applicable to any two men; and
fortunately the variation and combina-
tion of methods is interminable. We have
therefore no stone to throw at the sug-
gestions which the Commission has made.
All the same The Bulletin feels compelled
to add to them some of its own:—
(1) Firm and impartial enforcement of
laws intended to outlaw industrial war.
(2) Payment by results, with the conse-
quent cessation of the custom of fixing wages
on a basis other than the fair value of ser-
vices performed.
(3) Removal of artificial restrictions upon
production and upon the right of an industry
to organise itself in the most efficient way.
(4) Preference to Australian manufactures
as a first plank of every Government’s policy.
(5) Adequate protection for established in-
dustries, and encouragement for the establish-
ment of new industries.
(6) A curtailment of Commonwealth and
State expenditures to an extent that will at
least eliminate the necessity for borrowing
to pay interest, with the aim of eventually
reducing taxation.
And to these might be added a rider that
a determination on the part of Govern-
ments to govern, without deputing their
duties to commissions, should be found
helpful.
SAVE THE MARITIME UNIONS!
When W t . M. Hughes was president of the
Waterside Workers and R. S. Guthrie
looked after the Seamen, maritime unionism
was a rrnry serviceable institution and was
recognised.as such. Had it not been so the
Navigation Act, which gave the seamen the
best working conditions in the world, as
the Arbitration Act gave them and their
associates the highest wages, would never
have been passed in its existing form —
public opinion would not have permitted
the banishing of British shipping from the
coastal trade. But under the rule of fools
and knaves this branch of unionism has be-
come not only useless but dangerous. In the
course of a few years, marked by one ma d
strike after another, it has killed the Com-
monwealth Government Line, seriously in-
jured the fine shipping industry founded by
efficient Scots, inflicted heavy iosses on
producers and the travelling public, and
imposed grave handicaps on manufacturers
in their struggle with foreign competition.
Not being able to collect from the guilty
parties, the shipowners have made shippers
pay for the frequent strikes and provide
against future ones. The result is that there
is now very little difference between the
freight charges for the short coastal voyages
and those for the long ocean services (in
some cases, indeed, the latter are lower),
while factory products shipped from, say,
Newcastle or Melbourne to Fremantle have
to be handled twice at Australian rates of
pay, whereas one handling at Australian
rates suffices for foreign factory products.
Yet naturally the harshest effects of this
insensate war on industry have been experi-
enced by members of the unions concerned.
Many of them and their wives and children
have suffered bitter hardships, and their
unions are more or less broke.
* * * *
The recent sea-cooks’ strike exhibited
maritime unionism in its maddest and worst
aspect. Refused the employment of another
cook in the galley of a small steamer, and
refusing to apply for a variation of the
Arbitration Court’s award, the union sec-
retary in Sydney, backed by a few fol-
lowers in that city, declared the company’s
vessels “black.” The Brisbane and Hobart
branches of the union objected, pointing out
that the rule providing for strike ballots
had been over-ridden, but their protests
were dismissed with contempt. So were the
feeble representations of the Council of
Trade-unions, which unwittingly contrived
to show that, although any little union sec-
retary with a faction behind him can declare
jobs, goods, workers and even a whole in-
dustry “black,” there is no body with power
to make them “white” again if the union
secretary dissents. The Arbitration Court
suspended the sea-cooks’ award, but that
proceeding was likewise laughed at. The
strike dragged on for 16 weeks, during which
the ships of every associated company were
involved. It was not called off until the
Government had proclaimed it under the
Crimes Act and the manning of ships was
proceeding, with other unions showing omi-
nous signs of disintegration; but the com-
mencement of deregistration proceedings by
the dissatisfied Queensland cooks was pro-
bably the immediate cause of the capitu-
lation.
sjs i\i $ *
In the last hours of this latest of many
lamentable follies, Latham’s Conciliation
and Arbitration Bill was passed at Can-
berra. This measure will strengthen the
hands of steady-going unionists who prefer
peace to suicidal war and the secret ballot
to voting in the sight of a menacing mob.
It will safeguard their private means against
spoliation in the form of lawless levies, and
provide a check on the expenditure of their
corporate funds, now recklessly, almost
criminally, squandered in notorious cases.
But it will not rid maritime unionism of its
knaves and fools, nor prevent them from
leading it to destruction in their blind efforts
to destroy the industry by which maritime
unionism lives. There are .just as good men
in the maritime unions as there are in other
organisations, and Australia would not like
to see maritime unionism perish; but perish
it will unless it gets leadership that can
think constructively and conduct it into the
path of ordered peace and keep it there.
It needs W. M. Hughes back in his old
place, with, perhaps, Tom Walsh (tardy
but welcome convert to “constitutionalism )
to help him. So does Labor-in-politics, too,
need Hughes in his old place—that party
has shown pitiable weakness in all these
maritime disturbances.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Germs That Go Off.
As a member of this free democracy in
which almost everything is getting more
compulsory every session, The Bulletin
feels vaguely disquieted by the findings of
the Royal Commission on the Bundaberg
tragedy, wherein 12 children died and 20
became seriously ill after an injection of
anti-diphtheric serum. The Commission’s
remarks are mild but there are sinister im-
plications under their mildness.
The Commonwealth Laboratories at
Royal Park (Vic.), where the stuff was
made, sent the serum out in a pure state,
but it became contaminated afterwards.
There were several wavs in which contami-
nation could occur. If air got through the
rubber stopper the dormant bacilli could
change their nature and, multiplying, con-
vert the solution into the equivalent of a
dose of arsenic. If the stock were kept too
long the same thing could occur, and if it
were kept at the wrong temperature there
might also be trouble. Yet the stuff was
supplied to Dr. Thomson without any in-
formation as to the nature of the potential
dynamite he was to handle. Again, the
report states. Dr. Thomson, after thoroughly
scrubbing his hands with soap and water,
fixed the needle to the nozzl,e of the
syringe, picking it out of sterile water with
his fingers instead of carrying out this opera-
tion with a pair of sterile forceps. This
action, it appears, was sufficient to con-
taminate the water, and hence any needles
subsequently withdrawn from it.
As far as the preparation of its products
is concerned, the serum, laboratory is beyond
reproach. Its personnel are all experts in
the making of microbeal gunpowder. But
the harassed country and suburban medicoes
who breezily squirt the stuff into their
patients’ veins are not. In many cases they
know no more about the application or
latent qualities of the canned bacteria than
is contained in the label on the pot. They
haven’t time or facilities for acquiring the
theoretical knowledge and technique neces-
sary for handling the preparations already
put upon the market, let alone the fresh
items that institution adds to its repertoire
almost every week.
The manufacturing end of the business
is under strict control, and that supervision
should be extended to seeing that family
physicians aren’t given biological firearms
to play with without training in their use.
The Pre-selection Abomination.
In a candid moment, s. Bird, general secre-
tary of the N. S. Wales A.L.P. (or what is
left of it), said the other day that “the
entire question of the retention or other-
wise of the pre-selection system will have
to be considered by both political parties
in the near future.” This very unusual
Trades Hall Bird was commenting on the
Nationalist rumpus over the Martin by-
election, but obviously he also had in mind
the shindy associated with the pre-selection
of A.L.P. candidates for the Senate.
Some of the facts relative to this A.L.P.
hullabaloo have found their way into print.
There were three Senate candidates to be
chosen and the returning officer issued
84,780 ballot papers, of which 20,251 came
back. Only about two-fifths of these were
actually counted; 2704 were declared in-
formal and “approximately 9000” rejected
because of more or less “gross irregulari-
ties.” The votes of the northern and
western coalminers and the batch from
Broken Hill were ruled out altogether, hav-
ing been returned in unsealed brown paper
parcels—“in the case of the northern miners
all the parcels were broken open an
papers exposed.” But these mining groups
practically run “the movement nowaday ,
and when their roars and threats were heard
the A.L.P. turned pale and decided upon
another ballot. From this 18 candidates
withdrew, as also did disgusted unions whic
had complied with the returning officer s
conditions, so the gentry who forwarded
their ballot-papers in brown paper parcels
will have things all their own way.
Such is pre-selection according to A .L,.V.
rules; and the Nationalist method is, it any-
thing, worse. It allows a handful of people,
who subscribe a shilling apiece, to determine
who the party candidate Shall be. in
Martin, with an electoral population oi
nearly 60,000, 49 persons of this description
were for Graham Pratten and 47 lor W. A.
Holman; and Pratten got the nomination.
Some of Holman’s friends made a wm-or-
wrangle affair of it. Foiled in their efforts
to get their man endorsed, either as the
only Nationalist candidate or one of two,
they said they would spoil their ballot-
papers, and many must have done it. At
all events, the number of informal votes
soared from 986 at the general election
to 3635 at the by-election.
Dr. Evatt, M.L.A. for Balmain, and M..
Kilpatrick, M.L.A. for Wagga Wagga,
have said that pre-selection should be out-
lawed. They will have their chance to move
in this direction when the Bavinshaw Gov-
ernment introduces its Electoral Bill.
»
Wanted, a Census of Apprentices.
Dear Bulletin, —An article under the
above heading was read at the last
Convention of the Federated Master
Builders of Australia by Mr. J. T. Turner,
of Sydney, who has given £5OO to found a
scholarship for building-trades apprentices
attending any technical college in Australia.
The article suggested that the proportion
of apprentices to journeymen was probably
one to ten. Mr. Turner, in the course of
his address to the Convention, gave the
number of apprentices in the building trades
registered in the Department (registration
s compulsory, by the way) and the number
of tradesmen in each trade as at the last
census. Adding to the latter number the
10 p.c. increase in population (assuming
that the increase would be similar for the
tradesmen), he produced the following
astounding figures for New South Wales: —
Proportion
Appren- Approxi-
Journeymen. tices. mately.
Bricklayers . . . . 4,236 132 Ito 32
Carpenters and joiners 18,331 699 1 to 26
Stonemasons . . . . 1,372 33 1 to 41
Painters & decorators 7,772 64 Ito 120
Plasterers . . . . 2,135 78 Ito 27
Plumbers . . . . 4,318 495 Ito 9
So that the only trade that reaches even
The Bulletin’s figure of 1 to 10 (and
just beats it) is the plumbing, in which
the proportion allowed by the awards for
the last 20 years has been one apprentice
to one journeyman, while the most popular
trade of all for boys—carpentry and joinery
—shows only one apprentice to 26 men.
It would take too much space to go into
all the reasons why, but one factor may be
quoted. The Public Works Department and
the Municipal Council of Sydney, which
between them employed many hundreds
of building tradesmen on their day labor
jobs, had between them at the beginning of
last year just 12 apprentices, viz, two
bricklayers, four carpenters, two painters
and four plumbers.
If Labor Governments and Labor Coun-
cils, which were supposed to set a good
example to the “rapacious and grasping”
private employer, so lamentably failed in
their duty to. the rising generation, what’s
the matter with a subsidy per apprentice to
those master-builders and other employers
who do their part towards making up the
deficiency?
The Master Builders’ Convention carried
the following resolutions:—
(1) That it be a recommendation to each
State Association to obtain full particulars
of the N.S.W. Master Builders’ trade schools
with a view to starting similar schools as
soon as circumstances permit.
(2) That each State Association be re-
quired to obtain the most reliable statistics
as to the actual and relative number of
apprentices and journeymen in each of the
building trades in their respective States and
forward same to the honorary secretary for
compilation.
(3) That each State Association be urged
to impress upon its members the necessity
of training as many apprentices as the law-
will allow.
(4) That technical education of appren-
tices be maintained and improved to the
fullest possible extent.
(5) That this Convention reaffirms the
right of every Australian to learn a skilled
trade.
Which goes to show that the leaders in the
building industry, at any rate, are doing
their bit towards the improvement of
apprenticeship.—Yours faithfully, T. Square.
4 '
The Micawber Family.
One of the Commonwealth’s constant prob-
lems has been the administration of those
territories which have been adopted by the
Federation, yet have no voice in the deter-
mination of their own destinies. Federal
Governments, whatever their politics, have
been unanimous in either neglecting the
task or approaching it in the most per-
functory fashion. The instance of the
Northern Territory is notorious. In the
case of Mandated New Guinea, special
circumstances have affected the situation;
but, giving all that in, slipshod and ignorant


methods have hampered endeavors to
organise a policy of coherent administra-
tion.
Papua, for some time after it was
taken over by the Commonwealth, was in
a different position; it was starting to work
out its own salvation with every prospect
of success. But the door was closed to it
by the extension to its waters of the Navi-
gation Act. The imposition of this handi-
cap, supplemented bjr the levying of Cus-
toms duties on all products from Papua
and the Territory as if both were foreign
countries, was the result of the Labor
party’s obsession that, since the islands were
“a black man’s country,” their products
should be taxed, and local labor debarred
from manning vessels engaged in their
waters, lest the white worker in Australia
suffer. The effect on Papuan industries
was disastrous.
Realising, at last, the absurdity of all
this, the burdens of the Navigation Act
were lifted, and the Customs duties sus-
pended. The change is already showing
good results. But the situation is still far
from satisfactory. Trade with Europe and
America is being built up again, but facili-
ties are far behind requirements. Australia
is the only accessible market for the bulk
of Papuan and New Guinea products. And,
as the Australian market is not capable of
absorbing them, expensive reshipment is
the rule.
In his latest annual report Lieut.-Governor
Murray puts the case in succinct fashion.
If the territories are ever to do any good
for themselves a direct trade between them
and the markets of Europe and America
must be established, with a view of cutting
out the at present almost unavoidable
Australian middleman. An organised ser-
vice is necessary, and the territories them-
selves are powerless to organise one. It
would seem that there is an opportunity
here for the Federal Government to spend
money, as the German Government did in
pr?-war days, to attract overseas merchant
shipping to the Papuan-New Guinea trade,
which, especially as regards copra, is becom-
ing increasingly important. This would
give its adopted children their chance to
get off the workhouse books, so to speak.
In the Lieut .-Governor’s words::—
“If we succeed in this —if we can escape
from our little backwater into the main
stream of commerce —our economic future
is probably assured. Otherwise we must, in
the absence of some stroke of good fortune
such as the discovery of a petroleum field,
be. content to continue the hand-to-mouth
existence of to-day, with our natural
resources undeveloped, and the possibilities
of our native population still unrealised.”
♦
The Brute and the Babe.
In a recent case of indecent assault upon a
child the jury retired to consider their
verdict and were out for some time. The
evidence was pei’fectly clear. The offence,
a loathsome offence, had been admitted by
the prisoner both before and at the trial.
A verdict delivered from the jury-box was
expected, but the foreman led the jury out
and kept them out because he and some
others wished to add to their verdict a
recommendation that the prisoner should
be compelled to undergo a surgical opera-
tion. If the foreman and his supporters had
been able to get unanimous assent to the
recommendation, they would have put their
village on the map of the world in large
letters. The minority, whose lack of sup-
port prevented unanimity, agreed with the
sentiment, but did not think that it should
be recorded in open court. They thought
that it would be a terrible thing that a
man should, by penalty of the law, be
deprived of his manhood, and in support
of their dissent they had the fact that,
although the law provides penal servitude
and the lash, it does not in any British or
other community of which we have know-
ledge provide emasculation as a penalty.
It is to be hoped that it never will. Every
instinct of a British community would
revolt against such a process of law.
Yet there is nothing illegal in such an
operation. A man who is shocked at find-
ing that he is a victim to vile tendencies
may, in admirable exercise of his remaining
virtuous instincts, request a surgeon to en-
sure him against all temptation to accom-
plish his own disgrace in the future. He
may agree to destroy, in order to save, his
manhood. The B.M.A. could tell of cases
of this kind, and anyone who has protected
his own name from infamy, and the com-
munity from outrage, by this means should
have the reverence of his fellows. “If thy
right hand offend thee, cut it off.”
The question is, then, what should be
done to the man convicted of an infamous
act of indecency, the victim being a mere
baby? Under our present practice, he is
imprisoned for such period as a Judge may
determine; but this restraint on liberty
works no cure. Many persons take the view
of the foreman of the jury mentioned and
say that surgery should assist the law. Some
persons say that he is a pervert and degene-
rate who should not be punished because
he is acting under uncontrollable impul-
sion. Much soppy stuff has been written
in support of this view. Upon two points,
however, there is unanimity, for all persons
agree that the pervert ought not to propa-
gate his species, because it is not a good
species, and that the inmates of the nursery
ought to be protected.
The summary of the whole matter is that
in any case of filthy outrage on a child the
Judge should be empowered to pass a sen-
tence of imprisonment, to be endured to its
conclusion, or to be ended as soon as the
convict produces a certificate from two
doctors that he has requested them in
writing to perform a certain operation, and
that it has been duly and effectively per-
formed. The nursery would then be safe
and the race would be protected from
descendants of a convicted degenerate.
*
The Toll of Newcastle.
The disastrous wrecks in the latest gale,
ending in the loss in and around New-
castle of two ships and five lives, with at
least three other ships in peril, again com-
pel attention to this part of the coast. Be-
tween 1808 and 1926, no less than 86 ships
have been wrecked there. The total of
lives lost is hard to arrive at. The records
are incomplete—l 37 lives are mentioned as
lost, but in an additional six wrecks the
record laconically states that the ships
were “lost with all hands,” and in 57
early cases there is no record.
Newcastle is not, and never will be, a
satisfactory port. The millions that have
been spent have not made it possible for
ships to enter or leave with any degree of
safety in rough weather. The coast north
of the port takes a sweep towards the
east (Stockton Beach), and the current,
sweeping south along the coast, tends to
keep thp ship in and prevent her getting
freeboard. If they are not caught by one
of the port’s three death-traps—Oyster
Beach, Stockton Beach and Nobby’s—then
Morna Point is still waiting for them. Most
OF COURSE MOTHER BELIEVED HIM.
MA: “Adolphus! Where did you get that jam?”
ADOLPHUS: “I cannot tell a lie, Mother. It is a prize that I won at Sunday-school for
good conduct.”
of the wrecks have been in s.-e. weather,
but any southerly weather is dangerous.
The only humane thing to do is to shift
to a safe haven, and the only sensible thing
to do is to shift before costs become pro-
hibitive.
The Norwegian steamer Thordis, 6006
tons, was loading coal at Newcastle; but,
as she would not be able to leave fully
loaded, she set out for Port Stephens, there
to be loaded from colliqj’s ex Newcastle.
Not having sufficient sea-room, thanks to
the Newcastle death-trap, she was wrecked
and became a total loss. That was in
March, 1906, and the position has not
altered to-day.
__ «
The Terrace and the Flat.
“The type of flat now being erected in
Sydney is only the old congested terrace of
Woolloomooloo stood on end,” says N.S.W.
Education Minister Drummond, a man who
shows frequent signs of information. Bar-
ring the newness of the perpendicular curi-
osity, which will wear off, and the
occasional view from the upper part,
the change is really for the worse.
When the flat lies flat the tenant of
the end house doesn’t necessarily break
his neck if he falls out, and terrify his
neighbor’s wife by going past her window at
great speed head downwards. No one else
has the right to make a row on his stair,
however much row he may make on his own
stair, and he has his own individual means
of escape, back and front, from the police.
The objectionable cuss next door doesn’t
dance above his ceiling, and he usually has
a faint scrap of garden.
But what are Drummonds and other poli-
ticians of different parties doing to make
the flat less of an increasing necessity;
say, by encouraging some new seaport cities
to grow? The whole tendency of the times
is to make Sydney so huge that more and
more people must go a-flatting close to
the crowded centre because they can’t afford
the time and tram-fares involved by resi-
dence in the suburbs. In 1927
(about 185 square miles) gained 30,680 new
inhabitants, while the other 309,247 square
miles of N.S.W. gained 21,805. If the term
“Sydney” covered as wide an area as Bris-
bane, or even Melbourne or Adelaide, the
position would be much worse, on paper
anyhow. Recently a whoop was raised
about the great, not to say thunderous,
progress of Wagga Wagga, which was said
to effectively disprove all the croakings
about city congestion. Wagga was a town
in 1851, and in the the late ’sixties it was
big enough to hold the Ticiiborne Claimant,
who weighed 26 stone. It is now estimated
to have 8410 inhabitants, and such an in-
crease in the case of a country town is so
unusual that we are asked to marvel at it.
Lately, in the course of an impassioned
correspondence, it was claimed that Sydney
had grown to be the second biggest human
bloat in the empire; and many people wept
bitterly when it was proved that the dismal,
drab, damp, overcrowded city of Glasgow
is still a length ahead. The craving to create
a human antheap in a great wilderness or
a slum in an untenanted Eden is curious
and unaccountable.
«
Elective Ministries.
Dear Bulletin, —“Solomon Malaprop”
(B. 6/6/’2B) may be a person of tremendous
weight in the political world, but he has
chosen a very appropriate nom de plume
when he challenges the opinions of such,
authorities as Baker, president of the
Senate; Holder, Speaker of the House of
Reps.; Henry Parkes, W. A. Watt and
many more outstanding public men and
students of politics in Australia. It is
not generally known that the subject of
Elective Ministries received a considerable
amount of attention in the Federal Con-
vention debates. That the principle was
not put into the Constitution Act was not
due to hostility towards the proposal, but
rather to a feeling that the Commonwealth
Parliament should be left free to take its
own course.
The attitude of “Solomon Malaprop” is
that of every Conservative to every pro-
posal for reform. He doubts this, that and
the other, and fears the thing may not
work quite so well as it should do. But,
at any rate, the choosing in the open by
members of Parliament of a particular man
for a particular Ministerial position places
the responsibility where it ought to be. If
the choice is badly made, whether wilfully
or otherwise, the electors know of it and
can bring the blunderer to account. If
they don’t it’s their funeral and is not
chargeable to Elective Ministries.
Confronted by the hard fact that the
Swiss people have had this system in opera-
tion for the last 80 years and found it
thoroughly satisfactory, “Solomon” suggests
by way of explanation that the Switzer “is
so patient and so passionless.” An observa-
tion altogether inept and inappropriate.
The Swiss people have shown throughout
all their history a fervor and a force of
character which have made them impatient
of everything but the best in the public
life of. the community.
The Australian, unfortunately, is not so
keenly interested in politics as the Switzer.
Probably he has got to feel pretty hopeless
about Parliamentary government. But if
he won’t take a hand in a clean-up and
in re-establishing administration on a
business-like basis, he will deserve all that’s
coming to him.—Yours, etc., J. M. Fowler.
♦
Bogus Exhibitors.
“Two Seas”: It is high time the officials
of agricultural shows gave closer attention
to the methods of bogus exhibitors who
obtain money by false pretences and mis-
lead innocent would-be agriculturists. At
a recent show I noticed that the winning
card on “The Best Dozen Quinces” bore the
name of a man who hadn’t, I knew, a
quince on his property. When next I met
him I inquired where he raised those prize
quinces. He grinned and replied: “I raised
them in a Dago’s shop in King-street.”
But that is a minor swindle, and com-
paratively harmless, as quinces are grown
in the district he represented. The real
mischief is caused by the sharks who make
a business of exhibiting various products
that are not grown under ordinary condi-
tions, and in some instances are incapable
of being produced in the districts where they
are alleged to have been grown. I knew
a man who for years exhibited a “Best- Col-
lection of Farm Produce” all over the coun-
try, including the Royal Sydney Show, yet
he had never been a farmer and had no
farm worthy of the name. He had a few
acres of bush land of which a plot about
the size of a suburban garden was spade-
dug to provide his exhibits. His plots of
wheat, oats, barley, etc., were just large
enough to provide a sheaf of each. The
seed was planted—with his forefinger—a
few inches apart, and watered with a
watering-can. All the plots were so arranged
that they could be protected from frost,
or too much rain or wind. Naturally, his
wheat sheaves were greatly admired. But
those city would-be farmers who gazed
upon them didn’t know that any man who
tried to grow wheat on a commercial basis
in the district would be looked upon as a
lunatic.
There should be no difficulty in obtain-
ing reliable information concerning exhibits
of farm produce. When a city man is
contemplating buying a farm for himself
or his son, he is influenced, to a certain
extent, in choosing a district by the quality
and variety of produce exhibited as coming
from the district he fancies. He naturally
takes it for granted that the exhibits were
grown in the district indicated under normal
conditions, and not under an umbrella in
somebody’s back yard.
*
Changes and Changes in Manchuria.
Chang Tso-lin, China’s Northern war
lord, has skipped out of Pekin and aban-
doned his hold on China proper, but he
retains his own special province of Man-
churia, where he has war-lorded very suc-
cessfully for several years. While he holds
it and doesn’t recover anything else, the
connection between China and Manchuria,
which has lasted some 300 years, is off.
It is understood that the victorious
Southerners intend to chase Chang off and
take Manchuria, and it is partially under-
stood that Japan won’t allow them to do
anything of the kind. Its attitude doubt-
less is that, though the Manchus took China
in the seventeenth century, that gives the
Chinese no right to take Manchuria in the
twentieth.
Anyhow, Japan is badly in want of space,
for only about one-sixth of its surface is
capable of cultivation, the rest including
18 very active volcanoes, and there are far
too many people on the Archipelago for
comfort. There are 363,610 square miles of
Manchuria, so it is much larger than the
whole Jap empire, with about one-fifth of
the population by guesswork. The Manchu
population is gone, barring the merest hand-
ful, having moved south in the good days
to rob China. So the hereditary owners of
the land won’t object much, and Japan
already owns the Manchurian railways and
lots of other things, and has a considerable
mortgage on the rest, so it might not listen
if they did. As Japan wants space it is
much better that it should look for the
article in Manchuria than in Northern
Australia. If it moves officially intd the
new quarters it will have Soviet Russia as
a neighbor to the north, north-west and
north-east, so there will be no lack of
society. And if its two big neighbors pro-
gress and develop there may be no lack
of exercise either.


Reliability Above All —
YY/HETHER in single seater, family tourer or elegant sedan,
VV t k e real comfort of motoring is possible only when your
engine is running at “ concert pitch.” The key to this motor-
ing ideal is the consistent use of Shell Oils and Shell Spirit.
SHELL SPIRIT
OILS
T H E
SHELL COMPANY OF AU STRALIA LIMITED
5 rut
POLITICAL
POINTS
Probins the malodorous transactions of
the late Sydney Town Haul regime will be
a long job, but the Bavinshaws are m honor
bound to go on with it if it takes years.
In the first affair to be inquired into., that
of the Babcock, Wilcox, Ltd., contract tor
steam-raising plant at Bunnerong power
station, Justice Harvey, the Royal Com-
missioner, reports that a corrupt payment
was made to Haling, acting general manager
of the Electricity Department and that
Holdswortli, Labor alderman and M.L.A. tor
Sydney, asked for a cut. He also believes
Maling’s story that that person paid Labor
alderman Green £7500 for division among
“the gang,” and does not believe that £ISUU
was concealed under the floor of the Green
house for 12 years, during which the family
was in “very necessitous circumstances.
The Royal Commissioner reports further that
a representative of a rival concern promised
to place £15,000 in the hands of Bridges, a
former Labor alderman, if his co. got the
contract, and that the knowledge ol this
influenced the Babcock, Wilcox man in com-
ing to terms with Haling.
As the average H.r. seems quite incap-
able of providing financially for Ins own
future we shall have to consider presently
Frank Anstey,
M.H.R.
whether the allowance
the country makes him
should not be paid as
to (say) one-third ot
it in a pension on re-
tirement. Take the
case of Frank Anstey.
Before the Mahony
Commission last week
this emotional veteran
of the Labor party
broke into tears when
he recalled the
straits lie was m
during the war and
just after, and the
offer of some un-
named emissary of the
Nationalists to buy
his seat. Of course
Anstey refused. He
would rather starve,
he says, than sell a
seat. But even if he
would scorn to sell his seat, how mal \y
times does the typical politician sell liimselt.
Not, of course, for money, but for what to
him are as good as money—votes.
Fourteen days before the old financial
year ended the Tjoan Council, representing
the Commonwealth and the six States, met to
decide how much foreign borrowed money all
of them could do with during the new year.
Nineteen politicians and officials were pre-
sent, each wearing the anxious expression ot
a man with an oil well for sale. None were
missing, and nobody was late, and no one
said he didn’t want any this year, thank
you. The reason why the first day ended
with no business done was probably that
everybody wanted the lot.
Queensland’s Labor Government like
South Australia’s Liberal Government, has
nothing but contempt for the idea that when
a Senator dies or resigns Ins place shou
be filled by a member of the same party.
On John Adamson’s death m 19--, the
Continuous Ministry gave the seat to Labor-
journalist J. V. MacDonald. Now Mae-
Donald or some other Laborite is to suc-
ceed the late Tom Givens, no Nationalist
having the ghost of a chance. Let Givens
headed the poll in 1025, as Adamson, also a
Nationalist, did in 1910; in fact, Givens got
an absolute majority on the first count.
Melbourne Age on the boot-importing
craze and the poor state of the local hoot-
gear manufacture’s health :
The industry, which is an important one to the
Commonwealth, could be assisted over the present
period of depression if Australians supported it in
a practical way by using Australian footwear.
Or if Australians could set none but then-
own footwear to use. If the habit of pro-
hibiting needless imports was once started
the public would get accustomed to it in a
surprisingly short time.
Ex-Attorney-General Ogilvie (Tas.) is m
more trouble : following liis election speeches
Justice Crisp
(Tas.).
he has to answer pro-
ceedings that have
been begun for con-
tempt. As an officer
of the court, it is
alleged, lie reflected
on the impartiality of
Justice Crisp. This
Judge was the Royal
Commissioner wli o
inquired into Ogilvie’s
financial transactions.
Lie should never have
been appointed a
Commissioner. And
neither should any
other Jud g e. Th e
present proceedings,
following on what no
doubt was a bitter attack upon Crisp,
illustrate the’wisdom of Federal Chief Jus-
tice Knox in refusing either to himself in-
quire into the Mahony-Theodore seat-
purchase allegations or to nominate any
member of the Ilia'll Court Bench for this
or any other extra-judicial job.
Readers of the sensational press were
led to believe last week that the hectic
career of the Commonwealth Government
line of steamers had been rounded off with
a mutiny aboard the Jervis Bay, travelling
between ITrenicintle cind Colombo, xlie simple
facts seem to be that eight stowaways got
out of hand, and that before they were
placed where they could do no harm clumsily
expressed wireless messages bespeaking the
help of a warship were received from the
liner. With nothing more than these mes-
sages to go on, imaginative writers sug-
gested that the affair was the outcome of a
Communist plot involving part of the crew.
One Sydney paper came out with a poster
bearing the legend. “Jervis Bay Captured
bv Mutineers.” This dishonest journalism
will inevitably breed more bitterness in a
quarter where ill feeling has already done a
great amount of mischief.
Nats and Coekies are talking of a no-
confidence amendment on the Address-in-
Reply when Vic. Assembly meets next week
but the Ministry isn't scared. It claims, and
with some reason, that it can pull througji
by six votes. With Linton (Nat.) abroad,
the tally on each side of the House is •>-■
On the‘right of the Speaker’s chair there
arc 28 Laborites and four Country Progs.;
on the left, 17 Nats., two Libs., three Inde-
pendents and 10 Coekies. It is certain that
the Opposition side will supply the Speaker,
and Gray, Forrest, McLachlan (Indepen-
dents), Bowser and Downward (Coekies)
are benevolently inclined towards the Hogans.
Other Parliaments have their troubles also.
In Belgrade “the President suspended the sit-
ting and left the Chamber,” because a deputy
had killed two others and wounded four, two
of them seriously. The disorderly legislator
then fled to the office of the Minister ot the
Interior and demanded an interview, but that
functionary sent for the police. A somewhat
similar episode disturbed the neighboring
metropolis of Constantinople 50 years ago A
dissatisfied officer or walking arsenal called
in on the alleged Reform Cabinet and shot the
Reformation dead on the spot.
In stating the accumulated and unprovided-
for depreciation of the Victorian railways at
£16,536,000, or nearly one-fourth of the
nominal value, Chief Commissioner Clapp
remarked that if the lines belonged to a
private company it would get authority from
the Court to write off that amount of its
capital as lost. But as other people (largely
outside people) provided the capital that is
lost, such a move is impossible, fstill tne
allusion to a court is interesting.
One of the planks of the TJ.S. Republican
party is a fixed determination to remain out-
side the League of Nations. The League
admits small nations and recognises their
rights. On the other hand, Lncles wai-
outlawry” pact is restricted to four Euro-
pean Powers, an Asiatic one and lnmselt.
The sending of more U.S. troops to Nica-
ragua would hardly square with the League
doctrine, but jt is all right under the pact.
The sea cooks have gone back to their
marine kitchens to boil the fleshpots as
before, without any clear idea why they ever
left oft'. Whether the stoppage will have
any permanent bad effect remains to be
seen. Shipping hasn’t been a violently-pro-
gressive Australian industry for a long while.
Employees in the coastal and inter-State
trade numbered 6717 in 1913 and 6345 in
1926. New vessels built represented 113'_
tons net in the first year, and 59 tons m
the last. It is a shocking record for a sea-
girt continent and some islands.
A ship loaded with immigrants made Fre-
mantle its first port of call the other day.
Its cargo consisted of 184 Italians, 19
Albanians, 10 Jugo-Slavs, six Germans, six
Palestinians, five Greeks, four 1 oles, three
Syrians, a pair of Cypriotes, a Roumanian,
an Austrian and an Egyptian. The efforts
made in Red or Reddish quarters to dis-
courage immigrants with tales of unemploy-
ment may have an effect in Great Britain,
but discouragement printed in English would
hardly reach the Syrians. And if it did they
might have confidence in their ability to butt
into the labor market by taking reduced
wages, which might still be an improvement,
nil the rates prevailing among the cedars of
Lebanon.
The Turkish Parliament, whose name is
Mustapha Kemal, has decided to reform
Mohammedanism, and the necessary Com-
mission has drafted the necessary scheme.
Church and State are to be separated, Ihe
muezzins who holler to the Faithful when it
is time for prayer are to have their voices
trained, and some of them need it badly.
Mosques are to be provided with cloak-rooms
and pews, the worshippers will no longer
take off their shoes, and the services are to
include music. The congregation will be
mixed and sitting (unless it stands up for
hymns) instead of male and flat on its
stomach. The Caliphate is, of course, to
remain abolished. Possibly in the end the
truculent old creed will be modified and
mollified out of existence so far as the I urks
are concerned.
The idea of delegated authority is too
abstruse for the simple Samoan mind. Before
the Great War the Samoans sent many peti-
tions to Windsor asking the King-Emperor
to rule them; and at
last they were put
under British rule.
Nevertheless on May
20 members of the
Mau party forcibly
resisted the arrest of
one of. their number
charged with threaten-
ing to murder a chief;
there was a brisk
scrap and 20 natives
were injured. But
apparently things are
all right again. Any-
way, on June 4 1500
M a u adit erents
marched into Apia in
full ceremonial regalia,
headed by their
leaders, and accom-
panied by brass bands.
They gave three cheers
for the King, sang the
National Anthem,
shook hands with
Colonel Allen and
went home to them-
villages with a sense
Col. Allen, new
Administrator of
West Samoa.
of a patriotic duty well performed.
At the Premiers’ conference a motion
was carried, at the instance of Bavin, to
the effect that the meeting desired
to place on record its disapproval of the' principle
of the grant of Commonwealth moneys to the States
to be expended upon functions which the Constitu-
tion reserves to the States, and under conditions
laid down by the Commonwealth, and uiges that
there should be no extensions of this principle.
It was a commendable utterance. After
that snub every, self-respecting Federal Gov-
ernment will cease from, shoving funds on
the States for road-making and other pur-
poses, and look after its own terribly
neglected duties, of which the transconti-
nental railway is a conspicuous and glaring
example. In any case it has very little -to
shove now except its deficit, and nooody
wants that.
The Coal Tribunal, created by the Hughes
Government in 1920 at the special request
of the miners, has passed out to all intent*
and purposes. The Miners’ Convention has
decided that in future disputes the men will
o’o straight to the owners and demand tic
whole hog, and if the beast isn’t forthcoming
the strike will start immediately. It often
does in any case. Between 1921 and 19—o
167.890 days’ work were lost per annum m
the -N.S.W. coal industry through recognisable
disputes; 28,516 days through leaving off
to attend funerals; 19,017 through stoppages
to attend meetings or the taking of extra
holidays; 100,427 days in a way so indefinite
that no one found out that there was y
cause; and 27,107 days by reason 0 <
causes.” The tribunal may have done its
best, but it was a bad best.
“Wealsman's” view of it:- —
New Premier
McPhee ( Tas.).
Even if both sides were
level pegging in the
Assembly, 15 all, it is
doubtful if an elective
Ministry could happen in
Tasmania. The Uppish
House is the bar. That
Chamber, which claims,
and really possesses under
the latest Constitution
amendment, equal powers
with the Assembly, would
be pretty sure to demand
a couple of seats in the
elective Cabinet, and the
said Cabinet would then be
too quaint a mixture for
a democracy. It is not
much use talking about
elective Ministries until the
franchise is uniform or the
Leg. Council is pensioned
off. Meantime MePhee has
formed a Nationalist team
and is carrying on.
The closing of the Balmain colliery and
the winding up of the company are appa-
rently the end of a concern from which the
capitalist has extracted no dividends from
first to last. The mine was capable of pro-
ducing 650 tons per day, and with its own
deep-water wharves handy it was never
short of orders. But output was persist-
ently restricted by go-slow tactics, by the
large percentage of men who were always
taking a day off, and by the habit of leav-
ing off work at any casual hour and tak-
ing the rest of the day off. Four days work
provided for a fortnight’s untidy and
ambitionless existence. With the progress of
tin-hare racing absenteeism grew, and as
many of the expenses of a halt-worked mine
are just the same as those of a whole-time
mine, money naturally disappeared. Work-
men’s compensation was one more straw on
the back of the coaly camel. It fitted m so
well with the holiday season that at Christ-
mas-time the compensation bill was nearly
£2OO per week. Possibly this also went on
the tin hare. That animal isn’t particular.
Victoria lias the smallest police force on
the mainland in proportion to its popula-
tion. It is a badly-paid one to boot, and
a great deal too much of its time is taken
up with odd jobs. One result is an attitude
of contempt for the law which often develops
into active hostility, as in a recent case
when Spencer-street was blocked tor To
minutes by 1000 persons who watched the
legal effort to arrest a large and obscene
fireman, and mostly cheered on the malefac-
tor. In these painful circumstances the
appointment of 18 more constables is in
progress. It is a more or less relevant
point that Scotland has 6<op bobbies foi
30,405 square' miles containing 4,900,000
people while the Commonwealth lias a poor
7436 'for 2.074,581 square miles and
6 200,000 people.
One Alex. Holmes, a Melbourne suburban
male parent, lately registered, his fifty-fifth
conviction for not sending his children to
school. On this occasion he was found
guilty on four counts, and if all the episodes
were of the same size they were really 220
convictions. As defendant’s daughter, aged
13i years, had skipped her education for nve
and a half months four convictions were
none too many. Possibly Holmes is of the
opinion once expressed by Vic. Education
Minister Lemmon, that children should be
taught chiefly about the rise of the trade-
union movement and he couldn t find the
right kind of academy to send little Dorothy
t( The anti-Italian bitterness in Serbia is
something which can’t be mended by the
tj.S. scheme for nominally ‘ outlawing war
as between any of the six big consenting
Powers or by the good intentions of the
League ’of Nations. Serbia did much and
suffered much in the war, and the end
brought it some profit and a hitter disappoint-
ment. It badly wanted more port accom-
modation, and when the busted 'Austrian
empire lost its three fine harbors, Trieste,
Pola and Fiume, the Serbs hoped to get the
last. It is on their own side of the Adriatic,
and the population was at least half-Slav.
But Italy had a craving for the lot, and
winked the other eye when its wild novelist-
poet D’Annunzio seized Fiume with a band
of “volunteers.” Later the place was made
a nominal republic of eight square miles,
and later still the item was divided. Italy
getting Fiume itself and Serbia a scrap
adjacent. All the arbitration going can’t
convince tin l Serbs that their big neighbor
has given them a fair deal.
The Calyx pottery works at Subiaco
(W.A.) sell 65 p.c. of tlicir output to the
Eastern States. Another of those curses
which Federation has heaped on Westralia.
BALLADK OF GRAFT AND GLORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
When visitors from overseas
Would speak of buildings which excelled
Our noblest fanes, the rhapsodies
At which our civic pride rebelled
Could, as a rule, be promptly quelled
By pointing out that in one craft
Our City’s name Perfection spelled—
We wrought the grandest forms of Graft.
But now no surreptitious fees
Arc levied like the Danish-geld,
No more the whispers buzz like bees
As once when Aldermote was held i
The legislative axe has felled
The tree ’neath which the luscious draught
To aldermanic lips was held
In jovial wassailings of Graft,
Gone those mysterious degrees
Whose ritual their incomes swelled!
The hungry mice regard the cheese
And rue the cat was never belled:
For them another tocsin knelled
While hard, unfeeling ratepayers laughed
That they to toil should be compelled,
Being denied their daily Graft.
Envoy.
Prince what if some transactions smelled?
AVhat though some jobs were overstaffed (
Think of the pride with which we yelled
That Sydney stood alone for Graft.
N.S.W.
AHAB MULDOON.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
Lao-dah”: The other day a Melbourne
firm of haberdashers advertised 300 pairs of
silk stocking's at sixpence a pair. Early
next morning the street was packed from end
to end, and in the rush when the doors
were opened several bargain-seekers were
pushed through the plate-glass windows.
Two ambulances were summoned to remove
the casualties, and the stretcher-bearers had
almost to hack their way through the
phalanx of excited female. The impression
PUTTING ON THE ACID.
OLD BLINGS (never known to spend a bean): “That’s a nice cigarette you’re smoking!”
THE GIRL (who knows Blings): “So glad you like it. Keep just where you are and
you’ll get all my smoke.”
gained was that for a pair of silk stockings
at sixpence gentle woman would wade
through fire and blood.
* * * *
“P.M.”: Those references to the blind
finding their way about (B. 13/6/’2B) re-
mind me of a Vic. Water Commission
ganger who has been stone-deaf for nearly
20 years and has picked up a bit of lip-
reading. He was leaning over a bridge
watching his gang, whose talk was not com-
plimentary to the boss. Presently he inter-
jected, “The next man I see saying that
Deafy is a blankard will get his time.” There
was no more chin-music till “Deafy”* had
moved on.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Survivors of the old spit-and-
polish brigade of the British regular army
will writhe in their bath-chairs at the latest
decision of the War Office, which is hurrying
the service to the dogs. As if it wasn’t sacri-
lege enough to convert cavalrymen into
grubby tank mechanics, the W.O. has decreed
that the Guards regiments must take their
turn on the overseas service roster. Between
Waterloo and the Great War the Household
Brigade was only thrice requested to absent
itself from the delights of London and Wind-
sor. It sent units to the Crimea, Egypt and
South Africa, the hardship being mitigated
by the fact that in these instances there was
active service toward. This latest outrage
will tend to bring the Guards to the level
of mere line regiments, properly despised by
the young ladies of the chorus.
“Borom”: Talking about dynamic drinks
(B. 13/6/’2B), the term “lunatic soup” was
first applied in Melbourne to a mixture of
port wine and rum, to which a few lumps
of calcium carbide had been added. As the
carbide dissolved it generated acetylene gas,
one of the effects of which on the system is to
produce intense temporary stimulation, fol-
lowed by the father and the mother of all
headaches. The stuff was much in demand
for a time in the least respectable circles.
The name still lingers, but is now applied
to port wine and rum.
“Eromeno” : This is what I saw in a pub
in Barcaldine (Q.). Two pound packets of
soap powder made the froth; a pound tin
of caustic soda made the kick; half a pound
of resin made the body; and caramel gave
the color. The whole was dissolved in a
barrel of two-thirds water and one-third
beer.
* ■ * * *
“El V.”: That undergoing trial for murder
does not always shorten one's life is proved
by the case of Madeleine Smith. In 1857,
about the time Australia was dividing her-
self into colonies, Madeleine figured in a
Scottish court on a charge that she had
disposed of her French gentleman friend by
means of arsenic. The lady’s love effusions,
produced in court, have scarcely any parallel
in the history of English crime, and no trial
outside the Tichborne case so stirred the
British-speaking world in the nineteenth
century. The cautious Scotch jury brought
in a verdict of “Not proven.” Madeleine re-
tired from the scene of her notoriety to
London and married an artist. She lias-
achieved another minor blaze of publicity by
dying a natural death in New York at an age
not far short of the century.
* * * *
“Mudros”: Time-expired British regulars
were fairly numerous in the original First
Division, A.I.F. In one company of a cer-
tain battalion (under the old eight-company
organisation) there were nearly 30 —splendid
fellows, for the most part, but with a pro-
portion of scallywags whose knowledge of
military law was often embarrassing to their
O.C. One I recall was particularly scorn-
ful of the mild discipline at first enforced.
When awarded C.B. for something which in
the old army would have meant cells, lie
broke camp and went on a bender.
Arrested and brought back, he explained that
he was an old Regular and “eouldn’t soldier
along o’ boy scouts.”
* . =l= * *
“Blanc”: Because of the notice “Please
shut this gate,” hung there by an irate
sheep-owner, I spent five minutes trying to
drag, pull, shove and kick the dashed portal
into place. Someone less patient must have
followed me along that Booligal-road, for the
next day I found the gate open and sheep
straying everywhere. The notice had a post-
script: “Who told you it was a gate?”
“Waihoi”: What’s the loneliest grave in
Australia? I’ve got some nominations. On
the northern tip of Rat Island, in the Abrol-
hos group, 40 miles west of Gerald ton
(W.A.), where Francis Pelsart piled up the
Batavia on June 4, 1629, and, incidentally,
put an end to the Dutch endeavors to colonise
the _ South Land, two Dago fishermen are
buried. There’s no mark other than a row
of limestone boulders round the double plot,
and the only callers are seagulls and shags.
On Adolphus Island, in Cambridge Gulf, up
as far as you can go in W.A., a seaman
named Nicholls, who died on Philip Parker
King’s surveying boat, was planted 110 years
ago. Nicholls pegged out during the survey
of the Gulf. Plenty of stockmen and others
are buried far and wide through the North,
but they’re in suburban lots compared with
the two localities I cite.
jfc Hi $ sj:
“Pip Bee” : The conductor was corpulent,
and the Digger passenger had been sobgr.
“Fares, please!” called the conductor. The
Digger commenced a systematic search for
his ticket, but failed to find it. The con-
ductor moved away only to return with a
more insistent demand. The repatriated
warrior made another search, with no better
result. Coming back for the third time, the
conductor said, “There’s one of three tlipigs
yon can do: find that ticket, pay another
fare, or get off the car.” “Here you are,”
said the Digger, having found the ticket
at last; “and there’s one of three things you
—’ic—can do: eat less, take more exer-
cise, or bust!”
* * * *
“Cousin J.” : Dream cities? According to
some of the old hands, Moonta (S.A.) was
surveyed originally at Port Hughes, but
vested interests or something shifted it inland
SHE KNEW BUNNY.
CECOLLE (from the city): ‘‘That’s the girl who sang at the concert last night—what a
lovely mezzo she has.”
HER COUNTRY COUSIN: “Oh no, dear — it’s only dyed rabbit.”
to its present site, and a “port” was estab-
lished at Moonta Bay, a few miles north of
the original harbor. This part of the
scheme, however, turned out to be a snare
and a delusion, for the jetty, though it jutted
well into the gulf, had hard work to keep its
feet wet, and nothing much bigger than a
dinghy could get alongside. So when John
Verran was Premier a cry arose for a deep-
sea port, and despite the vehement protests
of Wallaroo a new jetty was built at Port
Hughes.
* * *
“Coot” : An interesting fact concerning the
huge stone coinage of Yap (B. 6/6/’2S) is
that the discs of limestone are all quarried on
the Pelew Islands, some 200 miles away.
Importations of recent years have been
brought to Yap in European vessels, but
many were on the island long before the
arrival of whites, and must consequently
have been conveyed by native vessels or on
rafts. Some of the ancient specimens weigh
up to five tons.
“C.Q.” : The biggest attack from the air
ever projected on Central Australia will
leave Melbourne next month. Two aero-
planes, preceded by cars to form bases, will
carry H. J. Larkin, of the Larkin Aircraft
Co., C. H. Holmes, for the Commonwealth
Railways, a wireless operator from 3LO and
a pressman from the Melbourne Herald to
Palm Valley, where a permanent camp for
tourists is to be established. From there
a pioneer flight is to be made to Lake
Amadeus, the centre of a huge area entirely
uninhabited. Landing grounds are to be
marked and wind indicators set up along a
route which, the backers of the enterprise
say. will soon be in the regular itinerary
of holiday-makers desirous of escaping the
rigors of the winter in the South.
* * $ $
“Gouger”: I wonder if primitive methods
of transport will ever die out. I was
knocked among the Jericho hills, and for
painful miles was rolled down to the motor-
ambulances in an old two-wheeled cart. No
motor could be trusted to cover that ground.
Many a wounded man will never forget the
lurching camel-ambulances of the Desert and
Palestine campaigns. With a wounded man
slung on each side, those dromedaries would
clamber up and over and across intermin-
able sandhills, carrying on from sunrise to
sunset where motor-ambulances could not
venture. A terrible trip for wounded men was
the grim journey back from Mazaar. Hav-
ing ridden all the afternoon and night,
hedged in by ghostly sandhills, we attacked
at dawn and fought all through a blazing
desert day without water. We retired that
night still without w T ater, shadowy columns of
desperately tired and thirsty men and
horses. The wounded rode back on wooden
sleds!
* • . * * *
“S.T.S.”: How is this for a queer acci-
dent? A brother of the manager of Lake
Torrens station (S.A.j was out after kanga-
roo. with a loaded rifle by him on the front
seat of the car, and several dogs at the
back. He got down to look at the engine. t
A dog climbed forward, trod on the gun
and shot him through the shoulder — a clean
perforation, unpleasant rather than serious.
* * * *
“Morita” : In my experience the most ex-
citing road (B. 20/6/’2B) was that tragic
three-quarters of a mile outside Menin, from
Ypres, past Hell-fire Corner, towards Glen-
corse Wood. Before the First Division
pushed him back off the ridge Fritz had an
uninterrupted view of the road for the whole
distance, and he used nothing smaller than
5.9’s to do his sniping with. It was the
only road available in that sector, so every
branch of the service had to use it, from
the artillery to the infantry changing over.
At night, in addition to periodical barrages,
aeroplanes lent a hand with bombs, and its
whole course was marked by wrecked wag-
gons and dead horses, pushed to each side.
Menin-road took a heavy toll of our unit.
One shell killed six men and hit 14 others
so badly only a couple ever returned to the
line.
* =!= s’:
“Hanno”: A foretaste of prohibition was
provided in Sydney when excise officers
raided an illicit still in one of the outer
subbubs. The records which the owner of
the still had been thoughtful enough to keep
proved that within a few months he had
made just on 500 gallons, and subsequent
events have shown that the stuff was widely
distributed. His raw material was chiefly
sugar, and had he not grown careless he might
not have been caught, a still being uncom-
monly hard to detect without inside infor-
mation. One of the difficulties Crawford
Vaughan and co. are up against is that
almost anybody can make alcoholic drinks,
the ingredients required being mostly house-
hold commodities, while no technical skill is
needed.
* z'fi #
“P.A.M.”: Tell “C.Q.” (B. 13/6/’2B) that
wood-carving is by no means a lost art in
Melbourne. His reference to the sole sur-
viving exponent is apparently meant for
Robert Prenzel; at all events, Prenzel is
still turning out beautiful work, much of it
for the adornment of city and suburban
churches. His last piece—a statue of the
Virgin, of heroic proportions, carved in wood
and sheathed in copper—looks down from
the lofty tower of the just-completed R.C.
church in Middle Park.
i'fi ❖ . ❖ *
“Feng-Shui”: Krakatoa, the Javanese
volcano, whose outburst of petulance—that
was all it was in comparison with what the
island has done before —in August, ISS3,
affected the tides and sunsets of Australia
for days, is working up a head of steam
again. Krakatoa’s criminal record is a long
one. In 1680 the group of islands was one
huge volcano, over 7000 ft. in height. The
eruption of that year blew the mountain
to smithereens, leaving three fragments, the
largest of which was a mere 2700 ft. In
1883 this blew up in turn, drowned 40.000
natives and sent a tidal wave clean round
the world. The detonations brought British
garrisons out as far away as Madras, under
the impression that somebody was making
hostile demonstrations. Early this year
mud and lava began to burst up out of the
sea, and observers have detected a new
crater steadily forcing its way upwards. On
the edge of the moving mass the Dutch
Government has established a seismologist
and staff, with a wireless transmitting set.
It will be their business to acquaint Batavia
of the monster’s intentions —if they have
time to forecast them.
* * * *
“Elless”: “P.M.” (B. 13/6/’2B) is wrong
in asserting that “preventives of all sorts”
are freely advertised and sold in France.
In 1920 a law was passed making it a
criminal offence to have, sell, use or adver-
tise 'contraceptive appliances. One recorded
i result has been an increase in the number
of abortion cases that end disastrously.
A SONG OF FRIENDSHIP.
[Fou The Bulletin.]
My learned friends!
Pleasure with admiration blends
\Vhen I observe how courtesy
(Conventional though it may be)
The Bar tradition still attends;
And yet at times I note, though pained,
That friendship must be overstrained :
“My friend’s assurance I admire”....
“My friend is simply out for fees”.. . .
“My friend’s a cad!”.... “My friend’s
“Gentlemen ! Decorum please !”
“My de-ah friends!”
The monitory voice descends
Through vaulted arch to empty pews,
Reverberating echoes lose
Themselves and try to make amends
By falling softly on that number
Whom they dispose to peaceful slumber :
“Oh Christian friend, the warning t ake;
The brand of Cain is on your brow.
Confess ! Repent! Awake! Awake !. ...
Your offerings will be taken now.”
“Comrades and friends!”
The soap-box its assistance lends
To hoarse Reds, waving arms or hat,
Shouting “The Proletariat!”
The politician who defends
Crook practices, and men who tell
Of tortured souls and flames of Hell:
“Comrades arise and break your chains.”
“My friends, eternal fire’s your lot.”
“My friends” “Oh, dry up!” “Use
yer brains.”
“Count out the cow !” “Put on his
pot!”
Friends of all sorts,
In churches, parks, trades halls and courts —
Your courteous method of address
Has quaint results I must confess,
For prejudice all minds distorts;
Yet, though the word we pan’t define,
Please fill them up, this one is mine:
“Friends of the Law and people rise
And honor this in tea or fizz:
‘To Friendship!’ You must realise
The sort of thing this Friendship is!”
S.A.
BILL O’COSTS.


“P.M.” : In a law case for the return ot
:iii engagement ring in Melbourne, a pleasing
Heiir'y-tlie-Eiglith touch was introduced. The
young man is alleged to have said he would
sooner keep fowls than gel married; he
could cut their heads off when he got tirea
of them!
.1! * * *
“Sea Nomad” : A sturdy piece of early-day
work stands on Raine Island, home of count-
less sea birds —a warning tower for ships.
It was erected in 1844, the Fly, Bramble and
Prince George bringing nearly all material
from Sydney and a score of convict laborers
as well. Coral rock was quarried out, and
lime for mortar was burned from clam-
shells. but water had to be brought from the
Sir Charles Hardy group and wood from
near the mainland. The job was completed
in about three months; the tower was 75
feet high, the diameter at the base being
30 feet and the walls five feet thick. A tank
was placed alongside; pumpkins and corn
were planted; then the place was left to the
sea birds. It looks very woebegone now.
* * * *
“T.P.”; Education isn’t what it was when
I was a kid. Driving past a Vic. Mallee
school, I heard an irate shout from the play-
ground. “Get off the Grampians, or we’ll
duck you in the Murray.” I pulled up,
climbed the fence, and found the nippers
making an immense relief map of Australia
dug out of the soil. The teacher, a winsome
young thing just out of training college, had
hit on a way of popularising geography.
& * ■ * *
“Askarri”: The transport Boorara, pre-
viously the German Pfalz, alias many Digger
epithets (B. 9/5/’2B), certainly had a hoodoo
on her, and in May, 1917, when I travelled
by her, it was working overtime. The vessel
pitched and rolled and did everything except
turn turtle. An unbearable stench drove
everybody out of the forward part. Measles
crowded out the tinpot hospital, until the
already overcrowded troop-decks were com-
mandeered, and finally, in the Indian Ocean,
a fire started below, and we made Colombo
with smoking ventilators and nearly red-hot
decks. Fortunately for us, we disembarked
SPEAKING WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
NEW BRIDE: “Now I simply must leave you arid get things ready for dinner, Billy.
Tell me—which oj my dishes do you like best of all?
BILLY: “I-I think the tinned salmon.”
at Suez ; the tub, continuing her voyage, was
torpedoed off Port Said. Beached and re-
paired, she reached the North Sea and hit a
mine; later, having been restored to some
semblance of utility, she ran aground. But
, even that wasn’t the last of her, for she was
sold to Japanese buyers, and is probably still
afloat.
* * * *
“Mana-Buleh”: Touching those Jellicoe
autographs (B. 20/6/’2B), an unexpected
one was obtained by the cable staff at Cocos,
When Jellicoe and his lady were on their
way to take over the Governorship of Maori-
land, H.M.S. New Zealand advised Coeds
by wireless that they were coming in close to
have a good view. On receipt of this informa-
tion two boatloads of exiles sailed out to
give the ship a passing welcome. To then-
surprise the warship swung around into the
wind and gave us a lee. The megaphoned
command to come aboard was quickly obeyed.
Perhaps never before has a British war-
ship entertained such a disreputable-looking
lot as those who climbed up the gangway.
■Clad only in torn singlets and shorts, they
sported flowing beards and close-cropped
hair, and most of them had coral sores
covered with bandages. No wonder the
band struck up ‘‘All Dressed Up and No-
where to Go !” We were received bv an aide
who, after inquiring our names, presented us
individually to the Jellicoes and the ship’s
officers, who soon made us feel comfortable.
I will never forget the spectacle of Jellicoe
strolling the quarter-deck in company with
a tall, bearded cableman who had at least
one-lialf of his singlet missing. Before we
left the Admiral presented us with an auto-
graphed copy of his “Battle of Jutland,”
then recently published. As the ship was
disappearing over the horizon someone asked
where the book was —it was still on board
the New Zealand. However, it was posted
back from Perth and arrived in Cocos three
months later.
* * * *
“Corporal”: “Buckley's chance” (B.
20/G/’2S) has some reference to the circum-
stances in which William Buckley’s life was
spared by the blacks. In the course of his
wanderings that queer soldier stumbled on
the recently-formed grave of an abo. chief
with weapons placed on top. He picked up
a spear, and at that moment was surprised
by the tribe, the weapon being in his left
hand. The deceased had been left-handed,
and the tribe believed in reincarnation, but
only in the case of left-handed gents. It
also chanced that weapons were placed on a
warrior’s grave only when the departed was
someone out of the ordinary. Buckley was
accepted as a reincarnated chief on the
strength of a chain of favorable circum-
stances such as very few mortals run up
against in a tight corner.
* * *
“Cartot”: One of the aversions of the
Postal Department is the ass who posts a
letter with a puzzle address which has to
be deciphered before the letter can be de-
livered. At one time these were so numerous
that at both Sydney and Melbourne (1.P.0.’s
they were sent to special officers who prided
themselves upon their ability to disentangle
even the most difficult specimens. Now, how-
ever, when one turns up it is sent to the
Dead Letter Office and in due course returned
to its sender with a curt little note. Even
envelopes bearing addresses in Morse code
are so treated.
* * *
“Arthur R.” : “Eureka’s” jazz-band alarm
(B. 20/6/’2S) is not in the same street as
the sleep-banisher I arranged for a pal. The
clock was electrically connected to a spark
coil whose secondary terminals were joined
to two metallic belts; one of these was
strapped round his abdomen and the other
clipped to a bare ankle. The sleeper didn t
linger long in bed after the sparks began
to fly.
* * *
“Coot”: For £5OO Commissioner Clapp
has acquired for the Vic. Railway Depart-
ment the bungalow on Mt. Featliertop. He
intends to run it as a side-show to the Mt.
Buffalo chalet, there being ample snow and
miles of suitable ski-ing country in the
vicinity of his new acquisition, whereas at
Buffalo the Antarctic landscape is limited.
The, bungalow was erected by a syndicate of
which Hilda Sainsing, formerly lessee of
the Buffalo chalet, was a member, but her
ambitious scheme of raising £BO,OOO to build
an aerial railway from the valley to the sum-
mit went phut. The drawback of the
Feathertop bungalow as a tourist resort is
that there is no road to it, only a narrow
track from Harrietville, seven miles away.
* * * *
“Avon”: Christchurch (M.L.) and its port,
Lyttelton, have been celebrating a diamond
jubilee. It is 00 years since they became
boroughs, but, of course, the history of the
ultra-English flat town and its snug port
goes much further back than that. The first
settler in those parts was Malcolm Mc-
Kinnon, who arrived in IS4O. Three years
later the Deans brothers settled in the bush
to the westward of the present city—a sec-
tion still survives—and in 1850 the Can-
terbury Association sent its first four ship-
loads of colonists to the new land. They
found the site of their future city a de-
pressing-looking flax swamp—the flax still
blooms in many a Christchurch garden—but
they speedily drained it and laid out a town
on a draught-board plan with a cruciform
central square, in the middle of which they
plunked a very graceful grey stone cathedral.
The city now has a population of well over
100,000, straggles over an area 12 miles in
diameter, and maintains —not always profit-
ably—the best electric tramway service in
the world.
“Avon”: An old
gr u d g e hold by the
people of .Canterbury
province (M.L. )
against the Govern-
ment lias been wiped
out by the gift to the
province of its Parlia-
ment House, a fine
Gothic structure on
the banks of the Avon,
in the heart of the
city. The Canterbury
folk in the ’sixties,
when the chamber was
built, had a high
notion of Parliamen-
tary dignity, and they
spared no expense.
Thousands were spent
on stained-glass win-
dows, a marble-em-
bellished inter i o r,
mahogany furnishings,
tesselated pavements
and a decorated vault-
ed roof. Eleven years
after the job was
finished provincial
government was abol-
ished and the property
of the provinces re-
verted to the central
Government. Canter-
bury handed over pub-
lic works worth mil-
lions and a public debt
of £74, but most of the
other provinces put
more liabilities than
assets into the pool,
so Canterbury thought
it had a good moral
claim to possession of
its most historic build-
ing. The chamber has
been used for years
past as a ballroom on
great occasions, its
steady job being the
housing of Arbitration Court sessions. It
will now be vested in a board of trustees.
* * --K *
“Trop Mai”: The question before our
directors, a thrifty lot, was“ Shall we
employ girls in the office?” Most of the
board, with an eye on the pay-sheets, were
heartily for it, but the manager was stand-
ing out. The others had nearly won him
over when he retired to his room for his
pipe. From his open window he could see
into an office across the light-sliaft where
another tired business man was seated at
a desk. The door opened and one of the
most decorative of typists entered with two
cups -of tea on a tray. She brought them
across to the desk, seated herself on the
manager’s knee, and playfully stirred his tea.
That settled it. There are no skirts about
our establishment.
“Morita” : After the Armistice, when the
Belgians were stocking up their farms,
horse losses were so numerous that each
morning on parade we got a long divisional
list of “lost, stolen or strayed.” It was
etiquette wherever possible to souvenir from
someone else’s horse-lines. We had a driver
particularly fond of liis pair of greys, which
he had cared for since early Egypt days.
When one of them “strayed” from a pad-
locked barn he spent a week looking for it.
It was found, with four other military
horses, in a private stable in another village.
After threats to shoot the five of them, the
horse was handed back, the Belgian’s only
satisfaction being a receipt for 250 francs,
signed by “A Digger.”
* * * *
“G.D.”: “Si Anu’s” account of the “re-
fusal of the Emden to surrender to the
Sydney” (B. 23/5/’2B) doesn’t agree with
the yarn the crew and officers of the Emden
told me. The Emden got in the first shot,
and blew the Sydney’s range-finder to pieces.
After that the Sydney drew out of range of
the Emden’s guns and peppered her. When
the Emden found the fight was hopeless there
was an attempt to pull the flag down, but
it was jambed. After hours, during which
the decks of the Emden assumed the appear-
ance of a. butcher’s shop, a sailor climbed
the mast and tore the flag down.
* * * *
“Ruetama”: I nominate Norfolk Island
(with its population of about 800) as the
most law-abiding spot in Australasia. Dur-
ing 1927 there were only 14 court cases. One
person was tried for stealing, and two were
convicted of assault. Nine offenders were
fined for neglecting to have their dogs
registered. The other two convictions were
for cutting timber without a license and for
allowing a bull to stray.
“14th Bat.”: I was wounded and taken
prisoner on Gallipoli in August, 1915. Eater,
with other companions in misfortune, I was
marched over the Taurus Mountains, half-
starved and in wooden clogs, and set to
work as a laborer on the Bagdad railway
under German engineers. Here it was, some
iq months later, I witnessed a typical case
o? Turkish “justice.” Two Arabs had been
sent with a dray to headquarters for a box
of -old coin to pay the carters’ wages. They
returned without the box, and reported that
they had been told there was nothing for
them. Promptly they were hauled before
the Turkish commandant, wh confessed that
to be thrashed imtll the l the guards
they had stolen the gold. . rcl * h 0 . 00( j will
began the flagellation with such gooa
that after a few hundred strokes
that they had killed then
But the commandant was in n cte( j and
tnrbed. “Now the other, he d - > j
after about 50 lashes No. 2! owned ami
offered to show where the & old , un til
He led tli e guards from place to P 1 - ' ) d
it became clear that they were bem o
and they took him to the commandant,
who ordered that the floggn * don K t i ess
menced. The poor devil would doubties.
have gone the way of the first had not a
“STRUTH, MISTER ’OW DO YOU GET IT UNDER YER
CHIN?”
’phone message arrived from headquarters
stating that no gold had been sent with the
Arabs because the pay-clerk “didn t like
their looks.” The flogging ceased tli n, and
the surviving Arab was carried to the hos-
pital, to be discharged a month later a
hopeless lunatic. Yet two minutes at the
telephone would have cleared up the whol >
matter. Some people are ready to credit
the Turks with ability to govern themselves
and other races, but from wbat I saw of
their senseless brutality and sadistic
savagery during the three-and-a-quarter
years I spent as a prisoner in Turkey and
Mesopotamia, I am convinced that they are
still in the dark ages of barbarism.
Hi Hi ■ H*
“P.M.”: When on leave in the south of
France I visited the Italian frontier at Men-
tone. After talking to the French sentry for
a while, I strolled over the bridge and
addressed the Italian sentry in French.
“Speak y’r own language, Kid, and I might
getcher,” he replied. Further conversation
elicited the fact that he had spent 15 years
in America and had frequently visited Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
“Lao-dah” : Upheavals of land on a large
scale are rare in this non-volcanic country,
but an . example astonished residents ot
Gippsland recently. An island 60 feet long
by 30 wide made its appearance in Lake Vic-
toria during the night. The seismographs
in Melbourne took no notice of the occur-
rence, so the most logical explanation is that
it was a landslide.
* * * *
“Wal”: The quartermaster doubted
whether Billjim was entitled to a new pair
of boots. “The ones you’ve got aren’t half
worn out yet,” he objected. “Not worn out.' 1
echoed Billjim in disgust. “Why, the soles
are so flamin’ thin that if I tread on a
sixpence I can tell whether its head or tails.
He got the boots.
FAIR?
[For The Bulletin.]
“Blondes are more docile than brunettes, according
to the experiments conducted at an American uni-
versity by Professor Herman G. Matzinger. As the
result oi his experiments Dr. Matzinger has announced
that blondes are the more ‘gentle and tractable.’ ”
Bella is a blonde,
Mae a great deal darker,
Bella tame and fond,
Mae a toe-the-marker;
So, at least, we’re told
Goes the word scholastic —
Mae is brash and bold,
Bella placid, plastic.
Bella's passing fair,
Mae a trifle -sallow,
Mae's the devil-may-care,
Bella sports the ha 10....
Lord, if I could know
How you work, Professor!
Were the lights turned low,
Valiant type-assessor t
Bella is my blonde.
Tractable? And gentle?
If across the pond
Work experimental
Proves it, as you swear
(I for one deride it),
Nature, sir, or hair
(One of them), she's dyed it!
QUKENSLAND.
HASEN.
THE YOUNG MAN’S FANCY.
[For The Bclletix.]
At the onset of spring
I am willing to sing
Of love and the coo of the turtle,
But in these chilly days
I prefer that my lays
Should deal with the glories of Myrtle.
When by toil sadly worn
I am spent and forlorn
She is like a beneficent fairy;
Every dexterous act
Will enchant and attract
With a lure no misfortune can vary.
Her affectionate smile
Never fails to beguile
My thoughts from paths gloomy and shady;
No ethereal sprite
Could dispense such delight
As this amply-proportioned dear lady.
Her fair hands at the pump
Cause a cardiac jump
As she shows me how “Dogs’ Noses are
made,
So I chant in this hymn
The seduction and vim
Of Myrtle, the Heavyweight Barmaid.
N.S.W.
ADAM TOSSPOT.


V
Tapeping Heel
The Fully*Fashioned,
TaperinplHeel by
TVe&i&e sKpWs a defi-
nite advance in taper
heel design. It &ives
an appearance of slen-
derness and distin dfion
to this of fin-
est silk from top to toe.
18/11
tire
b
e
FULLY FASHIONED
Parisian Heel
Here.. £s• con-
tour m | Jleps <?rea ted
hy° in. fheir-
Fully laS:iiidn«d Hose,
specijai}yf#:tHose : who
pref# a- square Keel.
Giviii|j| slender-
and ted
with yet
aristocratic atid e^clus-
-Ive ja’.itadeail n.
..fliilt.
m
If
♦:*R*:*s
rprrrrr


HOTEL SYDNEY
Management: Edward T. Cheesemau.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
Throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
80ft. above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from 19/6
Bed and Breakfast from 13/-
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines).
Workers’ Compensation.
BEFORE YOU RENEW YOUR POLICY
LET US QUOTE YOU!
SAME OR BETTER SERVICE FOR LESS MONEY IS
A BUSINESS PROPOSITION.
SAVE ON OVERHEAD—OUR LOW PREMIUMS HELP YOU TO DO SO.
WE SPECIALISE IN
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION!
COVER NOTES ISSUED TO INQUIRERS IMMEDIATELY, IF REQUIRED.
LIFE. FIRE, ACCIDENT, PLATE-GLASS, MOTOR-CAR
AND ALL BRANCHES OF INSURANCE.
The Community General Assurance Co., Ltd.,
60a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Telegrams; “COMMUNITY,” SYDNEY. ’Phone (2 lines): 8W6562, 8W6586.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Koom Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Au
Address Manager—
HOWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some July birthdays:—
High Commissioner Ryrie, 63, and Prof. Ileinze
(Melb. Uni.), 34, on Ist; W.A. Governor Campion,
58, Theo Fink (Melb. Herald), 73, Arthur Blakelev
(Fed. Deputy Labor leader), 42, and musician
Frederick Bevan, 72, on 3rd; Justice Piper (S. Aus.),
63, and Rev. K. J. F. Bickersteth, M.C. (headmaster
of St. Peter’s Coll., Adel.), 43, on sth; S. Aus.
Governor Alexander Hore-Ruthven, 56, and Vic.’s
Chief Justice Irvine, 70, on 6th; Percy Grainger,
pianist-composer, 46, and Canon Portus (East Mait-
land), 54, on Bth; Brig.-Gen. L. C. Wilson (Bris.),
57, on 11th; Brig.-Gen. R. L. Leane (S. Aus. Com-
missioner of Police), 50, and N.S.W. engineer Percy
Allan, 67, on 12th; Melbourne’s surgeon-knight
George Syme, 69, on 13th ; Crawford Vaughan (former
S. Aus. Premier), 54, on 14tli; Dr. Saw (Chancellor
Senator TOM GIVENS, President of the
Senate from 1913 to 1926, when he
retired through ill-health, has died in
Melbourne, aged 64. Before he went
into -politics in ’99 he was a bush worker
and wharf-laborer at Cairns, and then
ran a Labor newspaper there.
of W. Aus. Uni.), 60, on 16th ; F. M. Forde, M.H.R.
for Capricornia, 38, on 18th; Vice-Admiral W. R.
Creswell, 76, on 20th; Vic. barrister E. F.
Mitchell, K.C., 73, E. S. Cunningham (Melb.
Annus), 69, and “Smiler” Hales (b. at Adelaide),
68, on 21st; Jas. Stopford (Q’land’s Home Sec.),
50 on 22nd; Prof. W. E. Cooke (Syd. Uni.), 65,
on 25th; Justice Crisp (Speck), 54, W. R. Alexander,
57, on 27th ; Randolph Bedford, 60, on 28th;
and Alexander MacCormick (Sydney’s eminent sur-
geon), 72, on 31st.
The closing down of Federal Parliament
for the winter marked the 190th sitting of
the House since the elections in 1925. Not
one member attended the whole lot—Opposi-
tion-leader Seullin being the nearest with
189, followed by Watson and Brennan with
188 each. Both Prime Minister Bruce and
Speaker Groom were absent on five occasions.
Lambert managed to attend the Bush Capital
on 10 occasions, and at Melbourne on 36 —
Mathews, who has to be assisted in and out
46 days in nearly three years! Invalid
the Chambers, managed 82 of the 90 Can-
berra sittings.
Some notable Australians who are 70 this
year: Emeritus Professors Francis Anderson
(Syd.), Edgeworth David, F.R.S. (Syd.),
and D. Orme Masson, F.R.S. (Melb.) ; W.
Aus. Chief Justice McMillan, Alex. Gordon
(just retired N.S.W. Judge), pastoralist
Edmund Jowett, Bishops Dwyer (Maitland)
and McCarthy (Sandhurst), knight G. H.
Knibbs (formerly Federal Statistician),
knight William Sowden (formerly Adel.
Register), Peter Board (late of N.S.W.
Education Dept.), Wm. Brooks, M.L.C.
(Syd.), W. H. Barnes (ex Q'land Minister),
entomologist W. W. Froggatt, F.L.S., Col.
Barrage, C. 8., Herbert J. Carter (“Ency-
clopaedia of A list/’) and J. P. Morice (Clerk
of S. Aus. Parliaments).
Lord Carrington (Marquess of Lincoln-
shire), whose death was reported the other
day, aged 85, was Gov, of N. S. Wales in
the days when the boys were hanged for the
Mount Rennie outrage; it was to him that
the final appeal to cheat the gallows was
made. The job, he confessed later, was the
worst of his long reign in Sydney ; he had
been a rather gay dog in London —grew up
with Edward, later King, and went with him
on the most famous of all Royal visits to
India —and was inclined to overlook much
in youth.
Alec Peacock, who looks like getting the
Vic. Assembly Speakership, moved the
Address-iq-Reply in that House when he was
a new member just 39 years ago. The House
now contains no fellow member who was
a witness of that first effort. Downward.
Prendergast and Bowser, who are next in
seniority of service, did not arrive until
five years later (1894).
All eyes go up to the skies when indi-
vidual airmen perform spectacular feats, and
quiet spadework such as that of Norman
Brierley, director of the sturdy West Aus-
tralian Airways, is apt to pass unnoticed.
Brierley’s development of the service from
Perth to Wyndham, the longest permanent
route in the world, has forged a link in a
chain which should presently reach to Eng-
land. The other link is the K.L.M., the
Dutch service, which will shortly run a
monthly service from Holland to Java.
Brierley hopes to join up with this by means
of flying boats, and he has come east to
try to. interest Bruce in the proposal. Brier-
Icy first woke Wcstralia to the possibilities of
aviation by some stunt flying over Perth in
1919.
Clieok Hong Clieong, just dead at Croydon
(Vic.), aged 75, and reputed to have been
one of the richest men in Melbourne, was
for many years head of the Anglican Mis-
sion to the Chinese in that city. Most of his
cash was acquired from city and suburban
properties. His eldest son, after doing bril-
liantly at Melbourne Grammar School and
University, obtained his degrees at Oxford,
and is now acting vicar of St. Peter’s, Mel-
bourne’s home of the High Church authorities
on Eastern Hill.
Dr. Black, the preacher frae Auld Reekie,
is filling Scots’ Church, Melbourne, every
Sabbath with crowded congregations; in
fact, a row of chairs along the side walls
has been found necessary to accommodate
the overflow. A “house full” card could be
posted up half an hour before each evening
service. The collection-plates would satisfy
even a stage Scotchman.
Sir Harry Moorhouse, who lias been in
Sydney for the past couple of weeks, was an
upper part of the administration of Uganda
at a time when Britain, concerned about
the massacres of Jews in Eastern Europe,
and no doubt having an eye to colonisation,
offered the Chosen a home in that part of the
world. Herzl, the leader and prophet of
the Zionist movement, Max Nordau and
Israel Zangwill were inclined to accept;
but the majority of the Jewish Zionists de-
clined to budge from the Palestine objec-
tive. Moorhouse, an expert in native psycho-
logy, has just completed an inquiry into the
Malaita troubles.
R. J. McNab, who died in Brisbane the
other day, was a leading figure in Banana-
land’s legal and social circles, and a member
of a firm of solicitors which has for many
years had the family name on its brass
plate. As president of the Queensland Law
Association he secured the passing of the
recent Act of Parliament which changed the
title of the association to the Queensland
Law Society Incorporated, aiid he was the
first president of the new body. In the long
ago he was a Rugby player, turning to golf
in later years. lie was only 60 when his
case closed.
“Brom”; Captain Harry Lyon, Kings-
ford Smith’s navigator in the recent flight
to Australia, was pushing through a dirty
night on the bridge of a large steamer when,
outside the Golden Gate, he saw a small
rakish-looking craft in considerable distress.
To prevent it being blown into the middle of
the Pacific, he threw it a rope and gave it
a tow in. The reward of his philanthropy
was the appearance from nowhere of a couple
of revenue cutters and his immedate arrest
for bootlegging, the vessel behind him carry-
ing a cargo of the best. Duly haled before
a local Court, he thought that his explana-
tion would tip the scales of justice in his
favor. But the Judge was apparently in-
credulous. “Prisoner at the bar, you will be
lined,” he said. “How much?” ventured
Lyon, with liis lunch in his throat. "On >
nickel,” declared his Honor sternly, "and
may the Lord have mercy on your soul,” If
lie didn’t say that —at least Lyon says he did.
Captain E. A. Fitzroy, who has just been
chosen as the new Speaker of the House of
Commons, is a direct descendant of an Eng
lisli king. He is a son of the Earl of Southamp-
ton, and the first of his name was the Duke
of G r a f t o n, off-
spring of Charles
the Second and
Barbara Villiers.
The family to-day
bears the arms of
Great Britain with
a baton sinister
across the cantons.
One of its heads
was Prime Minister
in the eighteenth
century, and if he
had not been de-
feated on a pro-
posal to repeal the
American tea duty
there, might havc|
been no Unite d
States. Another
commanded the
Beagle on its
famous Darwinian
voyage, and a third
was Governor of
N. S. Wales.
Sir ALEXANDER
HORE-
RUTHVEN,
S. Australia’s
new Governor.
Every spoiler of fair white paper with
sooty ink in Sydney was genuinely sorry to
hear of the death last week of Charles
Cliurchland, one of the best Labor roundsmen
that NS W. journalism has known. A
Victorian, lie went into the pen-and-ink game
in that State, but moved to Sydney early,
and built up a reputation as Trades lial-
man for the Sun, and more recently tor
the Guardian. Many a journalist without
his knowledge of prevailing conditions 01
flair for getting the right news has had
cause to be thankful for his advice and
assistance in uncharted waters.
Michael Terry, globe-trotter and explorer,
is to lead aii expedition starting from
Broome (W.A.) and working due east into
Central Australia with the object of assess-
ing the value of the country for pastoral
purposes and mining. The party includes E.
Officer, of N.S.W., and T. Coles, of Wynd-
ham (W.A.). Another unusual sort of explor-
ing party which has started for Centralia is
heading from Adelaide via Alice Springs. It
will spend two months inspecting the Queens-
land border country, the plains near the Mac-
donnell Ranges, and in general any country
thstt boreholes or wells, roads or stock-
routcs might help as feeders for the north-
south line. Its complete strength will include
Holland (Works director) and Connell
(civil engineer) of the Commonwealth Rail-
ways, Keith Ward (S.A. Government geolo-
gist) and Cawood (Government Resident
of Centralia).
The death of John McCaughey removes the
last of three brothers who were mighty m
the shepherding of mutton and money. Sam,
who left the McCaughey Trust for the benefit
of soldiers’ orphans and dependants, was the
first arrival, and made the biggest fortune : he
preferred the simple life to money-spending
John and David joined him after he had spied
out the land; John, in 1861. Their joint
holdings spread widely over the Riverma
and adjacent country; and when Australian
Farms,' Ltd., bought Toorale and Dunlop
stations of which John was part owner,
£400,000 was paid for that mere_ scrap ot
the territory in which he was interested.
John, who, in 1919, succeeded Sam as presi-
dent of the Commonwealth Wool and Pro-
duce Co., which the brothers formed, was
a racehorse-owner, who maintained his in-
terest in his hobby until he had passed 80.
A commentary on the growing number of
Yugo-slavs in Maoriland is the arrival of
a priest from Dalmatia to minister to then-
spiritual needs. Father Milan Pavlino-
vich who sDent the voyage learning Eng-
lish ' will be stationed in the Auckland 1 ro-
vince, where his flock are mostly employed
on the gumfields or in fruit-farming.
Donald Mackinnon, ex-Attorney-General
of Victoria and ex- Australian Commissioner
to Yankeedom, turned up in the Melbourne
Criminal Court recently ready to act
as a juryman, although exempt as a bar-
rister. Under the designation of “gentleman,
he was included in the panel, but two me
in the dock challenged, and lie mere y
watched cases for two days. Thirty-eign
years ago he assisted the great Higinbotnam,
C.J., to consolidate the Victorian Statutes,
and got some of the reflected glory, tlau
Mac. not been so well endowed, by inheri-
tance and development of liis possessions, he
might have become Premier and Chief Jus-
tice in turn. Perhaps he was content to get
as high in politics as Higinbotnam
Attorney-General. He lost his seat at I ran an
eight years ago. He is 68.
E. P. Elthain has been picked by the
Hogans for the job of first president of tlio
Victorian Apprenticeship Commission. He
is now senior inspector of technical sclioo -
anxl has had experience in England as well
as in his own State. He first saw light at
Boolara, Gippsland, and is only 35.
“One Cylinder” : Dr. McLennan leaves t»
take up his new post as superintendent
of Caulfield Hospital, Melbourne, with the
good wishes of every T.B. Digger at Rand-
wick. I was a patient of his there. He
knew every one of the hundreds of us by
name, and never failed to send each out-
patient back to his home with a word or
two of wise but cheery advice.
St. Andrew’s, the new residential college
for Adelaide University, is Presbyterian and
the second to be founded; St. Mark's
(Anglican) came into existence three years
ago. St. Andrew’s is at Mitcham, five miles
away from the ’Varsity buildings, in the
heart of the city. It was formally opened
by Isbister, K.C., and its Master is Barbour,
still young and a former Bananaland Rhodes
scholar ; his father was an old Sydney Gram-
mar master. The building (with 19 acres) is
the gift of the late John Duncan’s family,
of whom Duncan Hughes is a Federal poli-
tician, and Walter Duncan an M.L.C. of S.A.
John Duncan’s uncle was W. W. Hughes,
one of the founders, with Thomas Elder,
of the university itself in 1876.
Bob Williams, one of Hogan’s honorary
Ministers, who is also Mayor of South Mel-
bourne, was re-elected unopposed recently
to the Upper House. By way of gratitude,
he has given £2OO for the improvement of
Albert Park reserve on condition that the
management committee plants trees and gives
work to the unemployed. Williams is one
of the four well-to-do members of the Labor
Ministry. The others are Jones, Beckett
and Disney, who are also in the Upper
Chamber.
J. L. Price, son of Tom Price, South
Australia’s first Labor Premier long ago, is
back from London after three yeprs as
Agent-General, Barwell having taken his
place. He will probably enter S.A. politics
again, having always had a safe Labor seat
at Port Adelaide.
Bendigo showed its appreciation of a use-
ful type of citizen when it elected Colonel
G. V. Lansell to succeed the late Joe Stern-
berg in Vic.’s Upper Chamber. Lansell, the
G. V. LAN SELL, the new member for
Bendigo in the Vic. Legislative
Assembly.
largest employer of labor in the old goldfield,
was in France with the 38th Battalion. He
is a useful swimmer and boxer and one of
the neatest revolver shots in the Common-
wealth. The family’s gifts to local chari-
ties exceed £50,000.
WHEN A FELLOW.
[Fon Tub Bulletin.]
When a fellow takes a tumble, when he
jerries to the game, . ,
When he knows that for his troubles it s
himself is most to blame,
When at last lie gets his measure —when at
last he is impressed
By the stern fact that he isn’t so much
wiser than the rest,
Though his pride be sorely wounded, little
things like that will mend,
And a better road he’ll travel, and there s
comfort at the end.
When at last he takes a tumble to the way
the game is played,
When he’s stripped of all his trappings, and
his poor pretensions fade.
When sees himself as clearly as a man
is meant to see,
When it’s plain to him his fancy and the
fact do not agree,
Though his self-esteem be damaged, and he s
missed the fame and pelf,
You can count the man a gainer who has
jerried to himself.
W.A.
O. W.


GOOD COW!
“Tho State Premiers have been discussing what further financial assistance they can get From the Commonwealth.”
THE OLD CHAP IN CHARGE: "Gentlemen, she’s a good cow; but you’d better get it into your heads that she isn’t an artesian bore.”


n * » l ! >
/v.
502
iI=XJCSs
CH
tv'***?
P
S 7
X
ft?
S4NOMfIC
Jones
Kfi
!dicious
Paste-
Spread REX Salmonelle on fingers
of toast. This is a delicious dainty
for afternoon tea or supper.
You welcome something new for
sandwiches and savouries. Variety
adds interest and appetite to lunches
for work and school, and to party
sandwiches,
REX Salmonelle, the latest REX Sand-
wich Delicacy, is delicious. It is pure,
choice, wholesome fish, prepared as a
sandwich paste, and packed in very
attractive glass jars.
The quality is first-class the REX
brand is guarantee of this. The word
which best describes the flavour is
“ delicate ” something quite different
from the ordinary fish paste. REX
Salmonelle is indeed one of the
choicest of the many choice REX
products.
Rex Salmonelle
sdf
Other REX Sandwich Delicacies.
REX Luncheon Cheese, in 4oz. &. 2oz. tins &. porcelain jars
REX-PYE, in lib & }4lb tins REX Ham and Tongue
REX Ham Pate, 2oz. & 3|oz. tins REX Veal and Bacon
REX Veal and Tongue Pate REX Anchovy Paste
REX Devilled Ham REX Bloater Paste
Foggitt Jones Limited
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon.


sdf
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors; Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), WM. TILLEY (Deputy Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN, ALEX. KING and Dr. C. A. THELANDER.
Total Assets exceed £1,990,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb thiough accident, a Quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eveiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's ‘‘Princess Charming”
Royal “Scandal”
Criterion “Our Betters”
Palace “Nice People”
Empire “Top Hole”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic (Newtown) Shakspearean Plays
Regent g Pictures
Town Hall Shura Cherkassky
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's Grand Opera
Royal “The Girl Friend”
King's “The Patsy”
Comedy “Rookery Nook”
Athenaeum “The Luck of the Navy”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s , . Moving Pictures
_..
“Scandal,” revived at the Sydney lioyal
on Saturday after a lapse of seven years,
was written to thrill audiences less shock-
hardened than those of to-day. Still, even
to-day audiences gasp when Leon Gordon
(named Pelham Franklin in the story), in-
censed because Beatrix won’t let him expose
the fake marriage, threatens to forcibly un-
dress her. However, expectations are re-
warded by no more than the tearing of a
shoulder-strap—the undressing is done by the
lady herself, offstage, allowing her to return
more completely clothed than usual in her
night robe and kimono. In spite of the gloat-
ing of the feminine characters over the bed,
there is an admirable restraint in the treat-
ment of the scene, which is full of good
comedy. The play gives Gordon an excellent
opportunity, slightly wasted by an over-
inclination to cynicism; and as the wilful
Beatrix, May Collins, with good acting, fights
a voice that lacks a pleasing tone. Campbell
Copelin, a caddish artist, is well valeted by
John Fcrnside, and B. W. Lewin plays the
faithful adorer and friend, Malcolm Fraser.
CECILY JONAS, the American Italian
Princess in “Our Betters,” who makes
a hobby of philanthropy.
The two elderly female relatives of Beatrix
are adequately represented by Marion Marcus
Clarke and Doris Gilliam, and her doting old
nurse by Henrietta Cavendish ; while Daphne
Bairn, as a maid who goes into French rap-
tures over the pink sheets on the bed, got a
special “round” on her entrance.
Muriel Starr, at the Sydney Palace on
Saturday, turned from mystery drama to
"Nice People,” which contains a fair story
of a rather well-known type. Her part is
an over-pampered American girl, “Teddy”
Glouster, who kicks high over the traces
when the parent who has provided her with
affluence “makes a noise like a father.” A
realistic thunderstorm maroons her at night
in a country farm-bungalow with a young
man who spoils his once-briglit chances by
yielding to the soporific influence of his
hip-flask; but a more desirable young man,
who dives in out of the rain, induces Teddy
to defy scandal rather than enter a loveless
marriage. Pie teaches her that chickens may
be more interesting than night-clubs; and
after a few difficulties the really nice young
man finds liis way to the altar. Beatrice Day
plays the gracious Aunt Margaret with
distinction, and Ellis Irving is the nice
youth with the bucolic tendencies.
To-night (Wednesday) Allan Wilkie will
put forward another rare production, “All’s
Well That Ends Well,” in which he will be
the bragging Parolles. Last Saturday
“Julius Caesar” had Milton Sands as the
man particularly upset by the dagger of his
friend Brutus (John Cairns). Allan
Wilkie, who was Mark Antony, asked a
rather meagre populace to lend him their
ears; but it was a substantial populace in
the theatre seats which applauded the
speech. Miss Hunter-Watts handled
Portia; and Dulcie Cherry was Lucius, the
servant of Brutus. After “All’s Well That
Ends Well” has run its course the favorite
of Handsome George Itignold, “Henry V.,”
will allow Wilkie to storm the Harfleur
battlements.
An interesting three-plays season was
given at Burdekin House last week by a
party of amateurs, under Don Finley, who
is raising funds for an “art” theatre at
North Sydney. Evreinof’s “The Theatre of
the Soul” was the novelty of the entertain-
ment. The acting was rather poor in this;
it was vastly better in A. P. Herbert’s farce,
“Double Demon,” Schnitzler’s “The Wed-
ding Morning” was the third offering.
“Princess Charming” will be forced to
abdicate the throne at Sydney Majesty’s
on Tuesday next (July 3) —the stage is
wanted for preparations for the Grand Opera
season, which opens on the following Satur-
day with “Aida” ; the booking for this event
will start to-morrow (Thursday). At the St.
James, “Rio Rita” goes on its dazzling way,
and the Empire continues to find its business
“Top Hole.” Crops are yielding weekly
dividends on the farm run by “The Rudd
Family” at the Grand Opera House. Sydney
—which has a curiously different taste in
matters theatrical —-is showing an. inclination
to give Margaret Bannerman and “Our
Betters” a much better time than they had
in Melbourne.
Shura Cherkassky will spread his boyish
fingers over the ivories at the Sydney Town
Hall for the first time on Saturday.
On Saturday the stage of Sydney Conserva-
torium will become the sylvian glade in
which “Robin Hood” shot arrows and loved
Maid Marian. The Sydney Grand and Light
Opera Co., with Gladys Verona, Bryan
Taylor and others in the leading roles, is
responsible.
“Ace High” remains Sydney Tivoli’s trump
card, with the Katz Saxophonists augment-
ing an already substantial popularity and the
Kelso Brothers as amusing as ever. Maury
Kelly, who juggles with hats, and Howard
Nicholls, who spins hoops, add to the variety.
Fuller’s Theatre has now added a jazz
band to attractions from which George
Wallace, who has reached that stage of
public idolatry in which his mere appearance
draws a howl of mirth, shines largely. A
feature of the show is the continued im-
provement of Marie Nyman, a lady who
is able to match her own against the
comedian’s humors, and now and again dis-
plays a voice well worth attention.
Every country has its Robin Hood ; that
of a portion of South America, on the lower
hills of the Andes, is “The Gaucho,” a
legendary cowboy outlaw, whose exploits
form good matter for a film romance, with
the magnificent Andes as a background.
Douglas Fairbanks was never more debonair
than as this heroic bandit. “The Gaucho”
is Sydney Regent’s new feature. In “White
Wings,” a story of the competition between
England and America for the China trade,
the Lyceum has a gripping picture, with
some impressive storms at sea thrown in.
Greta Garbo goes a step beyond “The Flesh
and the Devil” in “The Divine Woman,”
which has with it at Hoyt’s De Luxe “Soft
Living.” another exposure of the evils of
alimony. As one woman puts it in a caption,
“That woman gets 1000 dollars a week for
failing at her job; I get 35 dollars for
making good at mine.” The Capitol is try-
ing out “The Showdown.” which is a slightly
different “White Cargo.”
:!= * * *
No greater disservice could be done to Aus-
tralian art than indiscriminate praise of it
simply because it is Australian, and a case
in point is the uncritical reception accorded
Fritz Hart’s “Deirdre in Exile,” splendidly
produced by the Firm at His Majesty’s
(Melbourne), and adequately sung and
acted by John Brownlee and that de-
licious local product, Lilian Crisp, among
others. “Deirdre” isn’t an opera at all, in
the accepted sense of the word, and it is
highly doubtful if it could hold its own
in its present form 1 in a theatre where dra-
matic action and interest are everything
and fine poetic feeling of small avail. The
score is full of original and sometimes dar-
ing modern ideas. It is elevated and con-
sistent, and makes no concessions to sensation,
remaining faithful to the elegiac mood
throughout. But the action has no dramatic
interest whatsoever. In fact, the music takes
very little notice of the proceedings on the
stage at all, and
John Brownlee was
frequently left with
nothing better to
do than stroke the
beard of King Con-
chubor.
-!* *
A spoken pro-
logue shows the
modern D ei r d r e
dreaming on her
deathbed, in a
squalid English
tenement, of her
pre-existences. A
black-out ensues,
and when the lights
go up the legen-
dary Deirdre is
being pestered by
the middle-aged
Conchubor for her
hand. But she has
seen young Naisi
passing down the
street and sings
tenderly of his
beauty to the dis-
gusted king.. A com-
poser more versed
in or subservient to
stage conventions
would have satis-
fied the audience’s
natural curiosity
as to whether
Naisi’s personal
appearance came
up to musical
plans and specifi-
cations ; and the
young man would
probably have ended
by sticking a knife
in the monarch’s
chest. Instead, an-
otlie r black-out
occurs, and the play
returns to the Eng-
lish tenem en t,
where the frus-
trated and unhappy
maiden dies with her unkissed lover’s name
upon her lips. “Deirdre” is really a sym-
phonic dissertation on reincarnation, with
theatrical accessories. As such, it is very
fine indeed.
The weather may have affected the per-
formance of “Carmen” at Melbourne
Majesty's last week. At any rate the proceed-
ings in front of the tobacco factory in Seville
began like a Sunday-school cantata,
sung by Children in an insufficiently
heated classroom. Giuseppina Zinetti,
however, burst into the business with
the full abandon of a polygamously-minded
factory-’and with a wide choice of temporary
husbands. Giuseppina’s accents were never
tender, but always thoroughly dramatic, and
her behavior was a fairly sufficient incite-
ment to Francesco Merli to give up a good
job in the militia to follow her into exile.
The male spectator is. nevertheless, likely
to feel a bit contemptuous of a weak senti-
mentalist like Don Jos*, even when he can
vent his feelings as beautifully as Merli. If
he had given Carmen a good clout on the
head early in the piece it would have spoilt
the plot, but. done the lady a world of good.
As it was, she had to wait until Rossi Morelli
arrived to acquire a fitting mate. His
enormous voice and superb virility made the
leading bullfighter of Seville the centre of
the show. After that there was nothing left
for Merli to do to salve his wounded ego
but stick a dagger in the lady, which he did.
The orchestra, under the third conductor,
Emilio Rossi, proved better as brigands and
brigandesses than its footling efforts as
factory-workers led one to expect.
“The Patsy,” by Barry Conners, at Mel-
bourne King’s, is the well-worn theatrical
stereotype of the Cinderella (Irene Homer)
of the family who beats her sister (Eileen
Sparks) for possession of the handsome
young Babbitt (Brandon Peters), he having
made a fortune, doubtless by shyster methods,
out of Florida real estate.' Where it differs
from its innumerable predecessors is in the
freshness and vivacity of the handling and
the quaint technique for fetching the great
heart of a simple public employed by the
leading girl. Miss Homer maintains
throughout a complete idiocy of deportment
while the playwright is busy proving her the
cleverest minx in the world. Miss Sparks
gives a finished performance as the objec-
tionable elder sister and as Pa A. S. Byron
is O.K. Critic has nothing to say for or
against the rest of the family, and as for
Brandon Peters somebody has to be a
romantic lover in a Cinderella play, and
Peters fills the bill.
The Bulletin lifts its hat (or its man-
aging director or whatever a newspaper wears
on top) to Meazza and Adrienne, who have
brought grace and charm to the current bill
at Melbourne Tivoli, with dancing that em-
LORN A FORBES, the Australian who is a strong second woman
to Miss Hunter-Watts in the Allan Wilkie Shakspearean
productions—the photograph shows her as the Lady Olivia
in “Twelfth Night.”
ploys the mind as well as the feet. Another
pleasant act is Sliishtl’s remarkable marion-
ettes ; and there is Hazel Stallings, who
sings exactly like a canary, if that is any
use.
* # * *
The popular “Girl Friend’’ is still in occu-
pation of Melbourne Royal., and at the
Athenaeum moderate audiences are wondering
why “The Luck of the Navy” ran in London
for 75 weeks. “Good News” is in its second
week of publication at the Princess, and
“Rookery Nook” is satisfying the local
demand for small talk at the Comedy.
“A Girl in Every Port” is helping to pass
the week pleasantly for Hoyt’s in Melbourne.
The lasses who love a sailor find a hand-
some object for their affection in Victor Mc-
Laghlan and the fun is fast and furious.
“Downhill,” at the Majestic, is the tale of
a schoolboy who takes another’s sin upon
his shoulders and keeps it there until the
scenario writer has run out of incidents;
when his character is cleared.
“Cauboy”: The decrepit Lizzie which
falls to pieces nightly in “Good News’’ at
the Princess, Melbourne, arrived at the
theatre under its own steam. It was only
after accosting a dozen scandalised owner-
drivers that manager Cecil Beveridge found
one prepared, for a tenner, to part with his
cherished ruin.
“Vil N.” : I have traced the latest flapper-
age epidemic to the pictures. It is called
“razzberrying,” and consists of inserting the
tongue between the lips, inflating the cheeks
and then blowing out. In one picture I
saw the hero in this expressive way showed
his respect for his fond papa, who had re-
fused to let him loaf any longer, and in
another the beautiful blue-eyed heroine re-
pulsed the villain in the same manner. What
is puzzling me now is why the U.S. won’t
countenance our descent from the monkey’s
grand-dad !


Alexander Hamilton Institute
ii CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, n.s.w.
m
The most famous little book
on Business ever written.
We will gladly send you a
complimentary copy.
Name
Business Address
Position
Modern
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ADFIELDS
AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS —DISC CRUSHERS —GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadlields’ Manganese Steel Wearing; Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and l Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Foundries i Bassendean, Perth. W.A.
Branch ( 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office } T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mark Foy’s, Ltd. (Sydney).
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.
1918.. 87,804 16,374 13 p.c. = 52,000 19,430 31,554
Taxation reserve taken in . . 41,000 72,554
1919.. 117.369 16,374 13 p.c. = 52,000 48.985 121,539
£50,000 of Reserves capitalised .. 71,539
1920.. 117.912 16,374 13 p.c. = 58,500 43,038 114,577
1921.-126,311 16,374 13 „ „ 58,500 51,437 166,014
1922.. 90,818 16,374 13 „ „ 58,500 15,944 181,958
Profit from sale of assets . . 29,338 211,29(
1923.. 119.497 16,374 15 p.c. = 67,500 35,623 246,918
1924.. 16.321 16,374 15 „ „ 67,500 32,447 279.360
1925.. 122.395 16,374 15 „ „ 67,500 38.521 317,887
1926.. 107.690 16,374 15 „ „ 67,500 23,816 341,703
1927.. 133.021 16,374 15 „ „ 71,250 45,397 387,100
Assets written down, £112,500 .. 274,600
1928.. 100.901 16,374 15 p.c. = 75,000 9,527 284,127
The building programme interfered with the
year’s results. Not much notice, therefore,
need be taken of the drop of £82,120 in the
year’s declared net earnings. After setting
aside an unspecified amount for deprecia-
tion, gross profit (£405,047) was written at
only £5767 less than the 1927 figure. But
ordinary trading exes. (£304,146) were
£19,854 heavier, and that is not surprising.
Considering the disadvantages under which
the co. traded during the term the results
are very satisfactory. After allowing for
the pref. requirements (£16,374), enough
was netted to pay 16.9 p.c. on the ord. capi-
tal compared with 24.6, 20.3, 23.6 and 22.2
p.c. back to 1924.
An extra five floors are being added to the
co.’s principal premises. The job was put
in hand over a year ago and was scarcely
half-finished when the accounts closed at
March 15. Thus for the greater part of
the term the departments concerned were
crowded into much less than half the space
that ultimately will be available. On top of
this disability was the inconvenience occa-
sioned by actual building operations them-
selves. A feature of the accounts which
attracts attention is that, despite the con-
siderable amount of work done during the
12 months, the book value of freeholds
(£450,848) increased only £49,843. But that
was after a reserve of £90,000, which had
been built up to cover the loss, by demo-
lition, on the old “Piazza” building, had been
wiped off both sides of the sheet. Also
£22,500 disappeared without comment from
the taxation reserve (£61,000), which is
treated as accumulated profit in the table.
Thus assets were apparently written down
£112,500. The result, after taking into
account £9527 of the year’s surplus earn-
ings that remained in the business, was
a reduction of over £lOO,OOO in the visible
reserves. But whether the assets concerned
actually decreased in value by the amount
written off is another question.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures disclose it:—
1920. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital. . £722,902 £722,902 £772,902 £772,902
Liabilities . . 27,181 35,572 30,881 191,935
Property . . 306,000 371,641 452,534 502,089
Plant, etc. . . 20,805 76,420 88,650 133,610
Stocks . . 494,611 630,482 625,271 653,254
Book debts . . 17,114 62,195 58,967 31,236
Cash, etc. . . 92,818 35,126 44,898 11,963
Exactly how much was spent on the new
building during the year is not stated in
the report, but the co. went to its bankers
for £155,335: the more or less liquids
(£696,453), including stocks (£653,254, up
£27,983), were drawn upon for £32,683, and
the amount coming to trade creditors
(£36,600) increased £5719. Thus something
around £200,000 appears to have gone into
fixed assets, including plant (£126,610, up
£41,610). Notwithstanding all this the finan-
cial position was still remarkably strong.
The more or less liquid surplus amounted to
£504,518, which was £193,737 less than it
was at the previous balance.
■ No mention is made of how much more
the new building is likely to call for, nor
does the board say how it is proposed to
finance additional outlay. The market clearly
anticipates a new issue of ordinary capital,
and recently paid 60s. for the scrip, now the
most highly priced of Sydney’s retail stocks.
At that figure a par issue of one for two
would return the investor practically 6-i p.c.
on a 15 p.c. div. basis. However, it is quite
possible that the board may find it more con-
venient to otherwise provide for the financing
of the programme.
Given normal trading conditions, the co.’s
outlook is full of promise. Its trading policy
is one of cash buying, cash sales and a
lively turnover on small margins. It manu-
factures much of its own requirements, in-
cluding woollen and knitted goods and furni-
ture, lias an extensive goodwill—of which no
account is taken in the books —and the inner
strength, created by under-valuation of the
assets, is believed to be considerable. Its
experience in 1922 suggests that stocks,
the most vulnerable point in the business,
are taken at a conservative figure. Also one
of the entrances to the new underground rail-
way passes a special corridor of show-win-
dows in the co.’s basement, and that should
be worth a great deal when the new build-
ing is complete.
The prefs.——there are 272,902 of them, 6
p.c., with priority as to capital—are well
protected. The backing amounts to £3 17s. 6d
in net tangibles, and last year's net profit
was six times their maximum requirements.
The visible cover of the half-million ords. is
31s. sd. per share in net tangibles. Buyers
offer 525. 6d., with sellers standing off a<
575. At the middle price, and after allow
ing for the div. (35.), the return is 5.8 p.c
on a 15 p.c. div. basis.
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
, Dividends Nominal
Half-year Net Pref. To Re- Re-
ended Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
- £ £ £• £ £
Sept.,’22. .15,324 2799 Nil 12,525 35,768
Mar.,’23. .20,211 3667 8 p.c. = 12,915 3,629 39,395
Sept.,’23. .26,982 4000 8 „ „ 12,915 10,067 49,462
Mar.,’24. .23,955 4000 8 „ „ 12,915 7,040 56,502
New share costs written off, £3856 .. 52,646
Sept.,’24. .33.851 4000 8 p.c.,= 16,000 13,851 66,497
Mar.,’2s. .46,234 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 26,234 92,731
Sept.,’2s. .38.229 4000 8 ~ „ 16,000 18,229110,960
Mar.,’26. .39,261 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 19,261130,221
Sept.,’26. .39,422 4000 8 „ ~ 20,000 15,422145,643
Mar.,’27. .38,580 400010 „ „ 25,000 9,580155,223
Sept.,’27. .42,142 400010 „ „ 25,000 13,142 168,365
Mar.,’2B. .48,169 400010 „ 25,000 19,169187,534
For the 12 months to March 31 the spring
in gross profits (£155,891) was £13,709,
most of the increase being in the last six
months, notwithstanding that that is usu-
ally the poorer half. But what means more
is that the brisker trading added only £1398
to exes. (£05,971) ; thus the year’s net pro--
fit (£90,311) benefited by no less than
£12,309. After allowing for the pref. re-
quirements the balance was 16.5 p.c. on aver-
age ord. capital compared with 14, 17.4, 18
and 13.3 p.c. back to 1924; all of which,
assuming that stocks and book debts have
been valued conservatively, gives the 10 p.e.
div. a very solid, comfortable look. Especi-
ally are they excellent results considering
that the net tangibles at work to earn them
amounted to only 225. 4d. for each 20s. of
paid capital at March 31. Goodwill still
figures in the books at £118,074.
When in 1919 the present co. took over
the old-established Gordon and Gotch busi-
nesses, which were widely scattered through-
out Australia and Maoriland, there was a
great -deal of organising work to be done,
and for a while results were disappointing.
However, it was not long before things be-
gan to make steady progress, and a wide
margin was maintained between distribu-
tions and earnings. Then the rapid growth
in city property values, and therefore in
rents, compelled the co., like many others,
to put a good deal of money into freeholds.
Most of the £200,000 of new capital that
came in over the last five years has gone
into the co.’s new Brisbane warehouse, com-
pleted about a year ago. and in remodelling
the Sydney and Adelaide premises; so
until quite lately there were considerable
sums of capital represented by uncompleted
premises not earning much return. A fur-
ther improvement was due to better trading
conditions generally in Maoriland during
the last 12 months.
Balance-sheet movements are encouraging,
especially over the last 12 months:—
Mar.,’27. Sept.,’27. Mar.,’2B.
Paid capital .. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Mortgages . . 69,000 66,357 65,857
Sundry creditors . . 127,050 147,941 117,623
Bank overdraft .. 79,880 108,389 35,537
Liabilities .. £275,930 £322,687 £219,017
Freeholds . . .. £199,230 £208,015 £207,511
Leaseholds . . 25,515 25,333 24,626
Plant, fixtures, etc 46,595 52,655 52.631
Stock .. .. 322,896 326,247 284,942
Book debts . . 353,249 390,158 357,010
Other assets .. 18,560 23,658 16,356
Tangible assets. . £966,045 £1,026,066 £943,076
In the last six months no less than £72,852
was clipped off the overdraft (£35,537) and
the amount coming to creditors (£117,623)
was reduced £30,318. Altogether the reduc-
tion in the debt (£219,017) was £103,670.
The more or less liquids (£658,308) were
drawn upon for only £81,755; thus the more
or less liquid surplus (£439,291) was £21,915
stronger than it was at Sept. 30. 1927.
Book debts (£357,010) were £33,148 lower,
and back to about normal level. But the most
important movement amongst the assets is
a reduction of £41,305 in stocks (£284,942).
Amongst other things it means that there
is less on the shelves carrying interest on
overdraft, and also, provided trade is main-
tained, a speeding up of turnover.
The prefs.—there are 100,000 of them—
carry a fixed cumulative 8 p.c., and last
year’s net profit was over 11 times their
annual requirements. They are not prefer-
ential as to capital. Their net tangible
backing, therefore, is the same as for the
ords.—22s. 4d. per sharie. The markat
prices the jjrefs. at 225. 6d.; at that figure
the return is a shade over 7 p.c. For the
ords. 31s. 3d. is paid. After allowing for
the final div. (Is.) the return at that price
is 61 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd.
, Dividends N
Profs. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. (6 p.c.) Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1921.. 79.177 7,015 10 p.c. = 48.542 23,620 155,928
Loss.
1922.. 90,074 12,231 Nil 53,623
Deficit.
Assets apparently written down, £ 119,400 65,777
Reserves.
Capital reduced £87,000 .. .. •• 21,223
1923.. 26,856 12,231 Nil 14,625 35,848
1924.. 50.092 12,373 4 p.c. = 20,201 17,518 53,366
1925.. 59,233 12,514 5 „ „ 25,252 21,467 74,833
1926.. 66,670 12.598 6 .. ~ 30,302 23,770 98,603
Reserve taken in, £15,000.. .. .. 113,603
1927.. 70,328 12,898 7 p.c. = 35,442 21,988 135,591
Transferred to Provident Fund, £5000.. 130,591
1928.. 73,515 13,152 74 p.e. =39,031 21,332 151,923
This co. carries on the business of mer-
chants, plantation owners, etc., with head-
quarters at Suva (Fiji). The market ex-
pected a trifle more dividend this year ; but
ever since the slump in 1921, when assets
were apparently written down £119,400 and
£87,000 was lopped off the ords., leaving
the co. with a mere handful of reserves
(£21,22.3), the board’s policy has been to
build up strength. Over the last five
years £106,075, or approximately one-third
of the declared net earnings, has remained
in the business, making reserves £151,923
at March 31. At the same time the div.
has advanced, by halting steps, from 4 p.c.
to 74 d.c. But the visible lay-by is not the
only provision. A year ago £15,000 that
had been put by to cover doubtful debts
and £lO,OOO to provide against fluctuations
in investments were tossed into general re-
serves because adequate provision had been
made for those contingencies internally.
Further, the internal provision against fluc-
tuations in the price of cotton goods also
proved adequate, the chairman says. That,
a satisfactory trading year and the general
expansion of the business are reflected in
a spring of £13,164 in last year’s gross pro-
fit, which mounted to £166,785; it was
£82,340 in 1923. A tight hold was kept
upon exes. (£93,983), which increased
£6990 and consumed 56.3 p.c. of the gross
profit, comparing well with 56.6 p.c. in the
previous term.
Another factor that helped the year’s re-
sult was the purchase of Smyth and Car-
ruthers’s business in Samoa just before the
close of the 1927 accounts. The assets
taken over w T ere valued at £60,000, for
which 1.5,370 ords. and 4630 prefs., all fully
paid, were issued in part payment. That
made paid capital £739,6i3 in 219,206 6
p.c. cum. prefs. and 520,407 ords. The
prefs. now call for £13,152 p.a.; after allow-
ing for that the balance of the year’s net
profit was 11.6 p.c. on average ordinary
capital compared with 11.3, 10.7, 9.2 and
7.5 p.c. back to 1924. The year before the
slump the ratio was 14.8 p.c., but since
then prices have eased, costs have gone up
and competition, especially in island trad-
ing, has become keen and is likely to re-
main so. Nevertheless, both the co.’s busi-
ness and its profits are steadily expand-
ing, and there is good reason to believe
that the position is not over-stated.
This comparison of balance-sheet items
reflects a wonderful improvement in the
health of the business over the last half-
dozen years: —
1922. 1927. 1928.
Overdrafts ~ .. £145,763 £86,664 £71,293
Mortgages .. . . 21,675 5,600 4,100
Deposits .. . . . . 35,985 25,597 20,750
Other liabilities .. 66,088 47,404 40,110
Plantations . . . . 73,269 75,394 85,084
Land, buildings, plant, etc. 233,823 224,942 246,114
Stocks, etc 225,397 288,475 308,989
Investments and cash. . 248,212 202,883 206,706
Capital value of
branches etc. .. 212,461 191,132 108,196
Book debts, etc. .. 144,518 84,395 102,695
Last year there was a reduction of £29,012 in
liabilities (£136.253). Merchandise stocks
(£205,004) were £26.132 lighter, but pro-
duce (£103,986) was £46,647 heavier.
Branch balances (£108.196) were down
£82.936, and only £18,300 was added to
book debts. One way and another the more
or less liquid surplus (£354,592), excluding
investments (£205,740), but including
stocks and branch balances, was £16714
less than it was at the close of the 1927
accounts. The book value of fixed assets
increased £30,862. of which £9690 was on
accounts of plantations; the balance
(£21.172) mainlj; represents the progress
made with extensions to the head-office pre-
mises at Suva. The total cost of these
extensions has not been mentioned, but the
co. expects to be trading from the new
building before the close of next accounts.
Investments are chiefly shares and deben-
tures in subsidiaries in Fiji—a few. years
back the item also included a holding in
W. R. Carpenter and Co.
The board is confident that the co. will
maintain its position and continue t:
moderate nrofits. The prefs. have priority
as to capital and dividend and are backed
bv £4 Is. 4d. in net tangibles; last yean s
net profit was 5* times their annual re-
quirements. The market values them at par,
or a trifle more. For the ords., 225.
offered. After allowing for the final div.
the return at that price is 7 p.c. on a <3
p.c. div. basis. The backing, well spread,
amounts to 255. lOd. in net tangibles.
Country Producers’ Selling Co. (Sydney).
Bonus
to Con- Written Re-
March, Profit. Dividend. signors. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ a-
-1918.. 8,626 7 p.c. = 1750 5,383 500 9,535
1919.. 9,067 7 „ „ 1750 5,208 500 11,144
1920.. 15,186 8 ~ ~ 2000 8,092 1000 10,238
1921.. 2,373 Nil Nil Nil 17,611
1922.. 4,237 10 p.c. = 2500 4,307 500 14,541
1923. 10,872 10 ~ „ 2500 6,880
1924.. 12,171 10 ~ „ 3750 7,434 .17,020
Profit from sale of assets, £8742.. 25,762
Building depreciation reserve taken
in, £6OOO •• 31,762
1925.. 10,983 10 p.c. = 3750 6,972 32,023
1926.. 16,387 10 ~ „ 6823 7,864 33,723
1927.. 21,738 10 „ ~ 7500 10,578 37,383
1928.. 22,404 10 ~ „ 7500 11,251 41,036
Shareholders, who are mostly clients, have
had a steady 10 p.c. for the last seven years,
and over the last five of them £44,099 has
been handed out in rebates, and £10,261, or
25 p.c. of the net earnings, has remained in
the business. Thus the £75,214 of paid
capital—2oo,ooo £1 shares, half-paid to 10s.
and the other half to ss.-—had the assistance
of £41,036 of reserves at March 31. After
deducting the bonuses last year’s net profit
(£11,153) was 14.8 p.c. on the paid-up
capital compared with 14.8, 12.5, 10.7 and
12.6 p.c. in the four preceding years. Last
year the co. received 65,741 bales of wool,
or 4157 less than in the previous term,
but owing to the carry over (8210 bales)
actual sales and shipments were slightly
more than they were in 1927; only 1517
bales were on hand when the books closed.
And since prices were better the value of
the turnover reached the record figure of
£2,916,189; it was £1,783,096 in 1925.
Here is a. comparison of the co.’s pro-
gress in the wool and stock departments :
Wool Gross
(bales). Sheep. Cattle. Earnings.
1912 .. 32,046 319,316 14,208 £19,212
1915 . . 41,961 385,918 24,123 29,721
1920 . . 35,998 287,138 12,314 49,158
1922 .. 34,009 220,509 17,168 43,850
1923 . . 35,161 289,368 18,061 55,477
1924 . . 34,154 184,653 19,692 53,903
1925 . . 38,164 118,343 21,415 51,042
1926 . . 48,403 200.519 18.068 62,903
1927 .. 80,157 334,162 20,035 83,969
1928 . . 73,951 382,141 13,744 93,342
Most of last year’s improved earnings came
from wool and produce—rebates on the
latter (£2850) were £4OO above the 1927
figure. Bonuses in the stock department
(£1845) increased only £l7, so the co,
did not get much advantage from the year’s
bigger sheep sales.
The extension of the wool warehouse is to
be put in hand shortly, and it is quite
likely that shareholders will be called upon
for a little more in order to finance the
work, the completion of which will eliminate
some of the double handling and storage
charges which the co. has to pay at present.
During the year book debts (£79,231)
were reduced no less than £46,473, and the
co. was leaning upon trade creditors
(£79,317) for an extra £15,811. That and
the year’s surplus earnings enabled the board
to wipe out the overdraft (£42,974) and
show a cash balance of £17,001. However,
the liquid surplus (£16,914) was £2310
lighter, but £9356 was spent on freeholds
(£103,240) ; other assets (£7505) were
down £2645. After allowing for the final div.
there was Is. sd. surplus liquids, 275. 6d.
freehold and 2s. sundry assets to represent
each £1 of paid capital at March 31.
.Singapore Hume Pipe Co., Ltd.
This co., a subsidiary of Hume Pipe Co.
(Australia), Ltd., was formed to operate
Hume Patents in the F.M.S., Java and
Dutch East Indies. It started with £l5 000
of capital represented by goodwill and £4168
preliminary expenses
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
1923.. 959 Nil 959 18,209
1924.. 9,595 12* p.c. = 5000 4595 13,614
1925.. 1,482 Nil 1482 ■ 12,132
1926.. 8,033 10 p.c. - 4000 4033 8,099
1927.. 7,800 8 „ „ 3200 4600 3,499
Reserves.
1928.. 11,301 10 „ „ 4000 7301 3,802
As a whole the Ilume cos. have not come
up to expectation ; but this little one, which
set up a factory outside Singapore in 1922,
has done very well. At the beginning
nearly half its capital of £40,000 was repre-
sented by intangibles, but orders kept the
plant busy and some fine profits have been
won. Last year’s £11,301 was easily the
best yet, being 28.2 p.c. on capital compared
with 19.5, 20.0, 3.7 and 23.9 p.c. back to
1924. The div. was lifted to 10 p.c.. and
still the lot called for hardly more than one-


Jit fbr the Prince/
m
• . •
_
••
: ■
fFfii
'—SL— -—J
. 40*^'' r -
Ml
■
■
VVz
..V
s*'
WPI
1
1 i
ass £fl
Mr*
IH
i r
mmmm
. / ';
HI
n 1
IZJ
Delco-Light Users in
Australia Include
N.S.W. Government Railways
Sydney Harbor Trust
Mr. Anthony Hordern
General Macarthur Onslow
Victorian Government Railways
South Australian Government Rail-
ways
Dept, of Works & Railways, North-
ern Territory
m
555 9
m
m
*
W
m
Please send me full particulars and
free literature describing Delco-Light.
NAME
ADDRESS
Delco-Light Chosen
for the Royal Ranch
IN the Canadian cattle-country, where the Prince of
Wales enjoys the open freedom of the ranch-man’s
life, Delco-Light has earned Royal favor. To provide
electric light and power for the Prince’s prairie home,
two Delco-Light plants have been installed.
The choice of Delco-Light for the Prince’s Canadian
establishment has conferred a signal honor upon this
modern electric plant. And it naturally follows that
this choice was determined by the reputation for
distinguished service already won by Delco-Light
throughout the world.
This same unfailing service is available for you —
now. Delco-Light is ready to brighten your night
life and lighten your daily tasks. Delco-Light is
made in several sizes—but in only one quality. The
plant installed by the Prince of Wales and the plant
which you may own are of the same honest material
and workmanship—whether of the same capacity or
not.
Why not let Delco-Light bring to you all the advan-
tages of a city electricity supply? Let us tell you just
what this efficient and simple plant will mean to you
in comfort and convenience. Ask us for free literature
and full particulars—simply fill in the coupon and
mail it right away to your nearest distributor.
Distributors:
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
307-15 Kent Street, Sydney.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide
STEWART & MACLEAN PTY., LTD.,
104 George Street, Launceston
DELCO-LIGHT


Know Anything Good \
Thirty-odd Companies
Accounts Dissected.
Prospectuses Examined by Experts.
WHAT’S BEST TO BUY?
Practical Help for the Investor.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” for June,
still further improved.
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
AVe stock + GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from AA 7 illiam Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. —Advt.
* * *
Little labor is required to instal a Pioneer Wood
Pipe line, for it weighs only a third as much as
metal. This modern non-corroding conduit is un-
rivalled for mining, dredging, irrigation • and indus-
trial purposes as well as for water systems. Get full
information from- The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Fig Tree Bridge), Lane
Cove, N.S.AAL ; and at Footscray, Vic. — Advt,
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.-— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coljjson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Wi’ite
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* # * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
PROTECT WHAT YOU HAVE EARNED!
The wise man, who has the welfare of his wife and children at heart and
who wishes to protect what he has acquired during a lifetime of work,
appoints as his Trustee or Executor the
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
TRUSTEES - - EXECUTORS - - ATTORNEYS - - AGENTS
This Company has had over 40 years’ experience in the administration of all
classes of Estates, and during that time no loss has been suffered by any
client.
And here is the reason: Unlike an individual, the Company never dies —•
constant and expert attention is given to your affairs until the term of trustee-
ship expires. Further, the whole of the Company’s Capital and Assets, over
one million pounds, is available to protect your interests.
There, is no time like the present. Arrange an
interview now or write for our interesting Booklet,
sent post free on request. It explains the many
advantages you derive by appointing this Company
to administer your Estate.
J. W. Barnes, Manager. E. V. T. Whittle, Asst. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The “Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of
RENDROCK,
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known.
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
third of the net earnings. Of the £7301
that remained £5OOO was struck off goodwill,
etc. That freed the accounts of intan-
gibles ; thus for the first time shareholders
can see the whole of their capital intact and
£3802 besides. It has been a creditable per-
formance ; in six years the co. has netted
£39,170, paid £16,200 —an average of 6.7
p.c.—in divs. and pruned £19,168 of dead
wood out of the accounts.
For the most part profits have been won
from large Government contracts, but last
year there was an encouraging increase in
the number of small orders. In Dec., 1927,
heavy floods held up the work of two field
plants. One of these has been shut down ;
the other was at work for only the last
four months of the co.’s fiscal year— : sufficient
orders were in hand to keep it busy until
July. The idea of extending the business
to adjoining territories has been abandoned
in favor of Hume Steel, Ltd., which is put-
ting up plant at Singapore to turn out
electrically-welded steel pipes. The Singa-
pore Hume co. will become financially interes-
ted in the venture, though to what extent has
not been disclosed, and will also act as local
managers. Increased business is expected to
result from this arrangement; hence the
board considers prospects for the current
year most encouraging.
The financial position is quite comfortable.
At March 31 stocks (£6139), book debts
etc. (£7129) and cash (£19,204) were
£29,444 in excess of liabilities (£3028), an
increase of £8686 over the more or less liquid
surplus a year earlier. Fixed assets
(£18,680) were a trifle lower, but there is
no indication of what provision has been
made for depreciation.
The issue of the accounts was followed
by a sharp rise in the price of the scrip.
After sales at 14s. 6d. buyers offered 16s.
Id. for the pound shares paid to 15s. Allow-
ing for the final div. (lid.) the buying
quote is approximately on a par basis. The
backing amounts to 16s. sd. in net tangibles.
But half of those tangibles are not the sort
you could sell any morning,
lie Commonwealth Traders’ Insurance (B.
20/6/’2B). The co. informs the “Wild Cat’’
that it does not hold any shares in the Com-
monwealth General Assurance Corporation.
=l= * * *
Coal, Oil, Ltd., by whom the Elbof geo-
physical survey scientists were engaged to
examine its oil-bearing properties in Maori-
land, has issued a preliminary report. This
deals with leases held near New Plymouth,
and affirms that commercial oil accumulations
have been located over an area of 400
acres. The locality was favored for boring
in 1911 by Professor Wanner, of Bonn,, and
was recommended for geophysical investi-
gation by the Swiss petrologist, Brossard,
and by Dr. Krahmann, of the Berlin Mining
Academy. The report states that “a most ex-
haustive geolectric conductivity investigation
clearly indicated large, unbroken oil accumu-
lations’’ at an average depth of about 3200 ft.,
with weaker oil horizons at about 1800 ft.
The lOlbof scientists have European and
American experience in geophysical surveys,
and the engagement of such experts at the
outset is the logical way to convince inves-
tors that they will at least have a run for
their money. This is the first occasion on
which such an examination has been made
for the discovery of oil in Australasia, and
tin uncompromising terms in which success
is proclaimed will focus attention upon the
method. If exploitation on a commercial
scale sustains the conclusions of these ex-
perts, a completely new era in prospecting
will begin. The report, which is published
only after the data have been exhaustively
checked by the head authorities in Berlin,
in accordance with the Elbof co.’s practice,
declares that the accumulations guarantee a
sufficient supply to meet the whole require-
ments of Australasia.
Mt. Battery Tin is a lode show at Tor-
rington (N.S.W.) with a nominal capital
of £50,000 in 10s. shares. Issued capital at
latest advices was 8333 shares f.p. to 10s.
and 84,443 paid to 4s. Quotes: Buyer 10d.,
seller Is. 6d. Latest advices are that an
offer has been made to take up 52,000 shares
which have been forfeited, and are on the
co.’s hands. Price offered is not disclosed,
but a mining engineer has been engaged and
will examine the property at the co.’s ex-
pense. If. his support is satisfactory to
the optionee the purchase will bo completed.
* * * *
Helium gas lias been recovered in in-
creasing quantities at Roma bore, and recent
tests show 0.04 p.c. helium or about five
times more than Prof. Steele’s first tests in
1921. . It raises visions of commercially
profitable percentages. Helium was obtained
f-om America by the Allies during the Great
War for observation balloons, as it is not
inflammable. Nothing gave Fritz greater
pleasure than to riddle hydrogen balloons
with tracer bullets. All helium found
in Queensland belongs to the Crown.
'* i]z sj: *
C. R. Haberlein, an American engineer
who, representing the Mount Elliott Co.,
spent some time on Cloncurry and has since
been delving into its copper problems, recently-
crossed over to London to confer with the
directors. Apparently the main scheme is
a plan involving a central treatment plant
to cover the low-grade residual ores of the
stock mines, with Mount Oxide at the back
of them. Transport and treatment are
bristling with difficulties, mainly relating to
costs. Meantime Mount Oxide is in the
hands .of tributary; and, .although their
output is relatively insignificant, they are
gutting 40 to HO p.c. prill ore, which isn't
helping to arrive at an ultimate solution.
Haberlein was the man who turned down the
option that Mount Elliott took over the
Mount Leyslion copper-gold proposition.
* * if
Mount Coolon goldfield (Q.) is experienc-
ing its seasonal trouble —lack of water. Un-
less heavy rain falls within a few weeks,
all the batteries will have to put up shutters.
The syndicate running the Kangaroo mine
took over the Empire mill from the Govern-
ment and is making a job of it, although
Kangaroo ore is admittedly on the low side;
it is lower than Barcley’s or Coolon’s mines.
They have 150 tons of tailings to treat and
expect a fair cheque on top of mill returns
from them. Coolon’s clean up should be
above the average, as the mill has been
working two shifts. The Native Bear still
looks the best mine on the field as to both
quantity and grade of ore. There was again
lately talk of an option to take over the
whole line of lode and work on a big scale,
but the scheme has been knocked on the
head.
❖ ❖ * *
The last crushing from the new discovery
at Great Northern Tin, Hcrborton (N.Q.).
averaged £3O a ton, and that accounts
largely for the tremendous jump in the
shares. A sum of £l5OO was won in a
couple of weeks’ work by three or four men.
And this while concentrates are down to
£127; not long back they were £lOO.
* * * ■'!
W. 11. Corbould thinks Edie Greek, with
organisation and ample working capital,
could be made a great gold producer. His
estimate of capital required is £1,000,000.
A Government road and light railway and the
amalgamation of holdings would be a pre-
requisite. But two well-known mining ex-
perts, in whose opinion the “Wild Cat” has
confidence, say that, as a result of months
of personal investigation, they can’t feel at
all sure about the existence of a permanent
formation, or of the possible value of the
Day Dawn lode, which is the formation re-
sponsible for a great deal of the hysteria
which has carried certain shares to fantastic
heights.
* 2 * *
There will probably be a flutter shortly
in the scrip of Adelaide cos. which have taken
options on nothing or next-to-nothing at
Alt. Magnet. Outside Hill 60 —and that is
still largely an undeveloped show —there is
nothing which one can feel at all sure about.
* if * f *
Chiefly because no mention is made of a
gold bonus, the Development and Migration
Commission’s final report on the gold-mining
industry of Australia is regarded in the West
as disappointing and unsatisfactory. It was
thought that the Commission would have been
able to furnish the Government with some
practical advice as to liow t it could expend
to the best advantage that portion of the
Disabilities Grant which has been or is sup-
nosed to have been set aside for assisting the
industry. On this important matter, however,
it is mum; but it vaguely counsels a review
of legislation on the subject of workers’ com-
pensation, consideration of industrial rela-
tionships, encouragement to prospecting and
a review of the mining laws with a view to
uniformity throughout the Commonwealth.
Perhaps the Commission’s most important re-
commendation is that dealing with relief from
Federal taxation. In a recent case where a
prospector was taxed on money and shares
received on the transfer of his lease to a
developing co., the Federal Commissioner gave
as his reason for such taxation that the pros-
pector had said he acquired the lease iii the
hope of making a profit out of it. This is
taken to mean that the only hope a prospec-
tor has of avoiding taxation is in the acquisi-
tion of a lease in the hope of losing money
by the venture. Until the spirit moves the
Federal Commissioner to take a different view
of things, it is safe to say that no impetus
will be given to the finding or development
of new mines.
# ❖ ❖ ❖
An agitation, headed by prominent mining-
men and the mayors of Kalgoorlie and Boul-
der, against mine amalagmations on the
Golden Mile, is making headway in the West.
Several condemnatory interviews have
appeared in the daily papers; in particular
there has been one with Frank Moss, formerly
general manager of the Ivalgurli and Hain-
ault, and now one of the biggest mining in-
vestors in the State, who expresses very defi-
nite opinions. He declares that to put the
whole of the Kalgoorlie mines into one or two
groups would be neither wise nor economical.
He thinks that if the State Royal Commis-
sioner, Kingsley Thomas, had had the tech-
nical knowledge to make himself conversant
with the difference between the mines he
knew in and round Jewburg and the mines
he didn’t know at Kalgoorlie, he would never
have recommended the amalgamations on the
latter field to which he committed himself.
Moss agrees that it might be economical for
certain Kalgoorlie mines to amalgamate and
send ore to an up-to-date treatment plant, but
doubts whether in the actual mining of ore
any advantage would be gained.
« *
Golden Horseshoe’s new owners are prepar-
ing to form a strongly financed co. to work
the property. A paid-up interest will pro-
bably be given the old co. as part purchase
consideration and the right will be conceded
it to subscribe for a wad of shares at par.
Control, it is expected, will be vested in a
local board of prominent local mining men, on
which the old co. will be given representation.
Ore reserves, which amount to hundreds
of thousands of tons, arc said to be
more valuable than stated in the last annual
report of the old co., and one section —that
beneath the railway line which passes
through the horseshoe close by and parallel
to the Boulder boundary—is estimated to
contain £150,000 worth of gold from the
surface down to the 50ft. level.
* s|c sic sic
Westralian State batteries, which have
been a godsend to many out-back prospectors,
have belted out gold to the value of well over
£<>,ooo,ooo, but at present very few of them
work more than a few weeks in the year.
The result is that expenditure largely exceeds
receipts. But the loss has its compensations.
Claimholders in most centres could not carry
on without these plants.
Jjt
“Old Sol” : About 18 months ago there was
an argument in the “Wild Cat” between
“Mining Engineer” and a gentleman well
known in the Malayan market with regard
to the boom which was then being experienced
in tin. 1 chipped into the argument, and
have just resurrected the cuttings. What a
difference! Almost everything that “Mining
Engineer” predicted has come to pass.* Kun-
dangs were then 395. “M.E.” stated: “Any-
one holding these shares at over 255. is taking
a risk.” They are now 16s. Ilis opponent
estimated recoveries at 40 tons per month ;
“M.E.” contended that 30 tons would be
the utmost recovery that could be expected.
The dredge has averaged very little over 20
tons. Selayangs were then at 30s. They
have got down to 17s. Rawangs are now
averaging a little over £2OOO per month
profit, which will not pay sixpence per
quarter dividend on the 240,000 shares in
the co. Kamunting is coming on to ground
with lower values just at the time the tin
market is in the region of £2OO per ton, Its
trouble is high capitalisation (1,200,000 ss.
shares). Other companies such as Takuapa
and Ratrut, capitalised at about £250.000,
will also feel the pressure. For over 12
months we have been hearing optimistic
reports on the tin position, with expectations
of increased consumption and consequent
high prices; but “M.E.’s” prediction, made
18 months ago, that “every fall in the past
has come out of a clear sky” has been amply
fulfilled on the present occasion. A dis-
quieting feature of the present position is
that the three-months price for the metal
is over £3 less than the spot price, indicating
still lower values. The tin market seems
to have a run of a few years’ high prices,
then a period of low prices, and it seems
that history will now repeat itself —which
it has a habit of doing.
* * * *
Bundi has two dredges working, one in
the Bundi and the other in the Chcneli
Valley. The ground is of high value, going
about a pound; the original dredge
averaged 1.0391 b. in 1926. Capital is small,
£85,000 in £1 shares, all f.p. During 1927
the net profit was £17,809 as against £3978
for the previous year, and £14,011 was
brought forward. No dividends were paid
and £31,820 was carried forward. The exter-
nal debt was £50,744, and liquid assets
£11,287. Tin recoveries for the first five
months of 1928 have much improved tin 1
outlook, the two dredges having cleaned up
338 tons of t.o. between them,, averaging
1.041 b. With No. 2 dredge working steadily
in only the closing months of 1927, the
recovery for that year was 429.6 tons. Costs
were high—9.lSd. for No. 1 dredge and
7.54 d. for No. 2—but it is expected that
these will be substantially reduced. Appli-
cation has been made for 2000 acres in the
F.M.S., and it is expected that 600 acres
of dredging ground will be located in this.
* * * *
The Larut Tin Fields amalgamation shows
a profit for 1927, its first year, of £lO6 848.
Total output from the dredges was 4,103,000
cubic yards, returning 1084 tons of t. 0., the
average being .591 b. Working costs were
4.47 d., bearing out the expectation that the
amalgamation would bring about more
economical working of the properties. Four
dividends of 6d. absorbed £60,000, and £36,860
was added to reserves. In addition to the
50.000,000 cubic yards still to be dredged, the
directors are in a position to acquire con ■
tiguous areas. A new and ultra-modern
200,000-yard dredge is on order. This will
raise the combined turnover to beyond
500,000 yards monthly. Reserves and un-
distributed profits of the original cos. have
been taken into account as general reserve,
which has now reached £125,000. Invest-
ments total £104,099, and cash £12,298.
* * * *
Fuchong expects to commence producing
early next year. The dredge, which is to
cost £72,800, is a bucket machine designed
to dig to 70ft., and capable of handling
190,000 c.y. per month ; shipment began in
April. It will be electrically operated and
fitted with sluices. An important feature
is a provision for dealing with the over-
burden —80ft. in parts—without passing it
through the screens and sluice-boxes. At
Dec. 31 the mine was in at £71,408; dredge,
£47,202; book debts and cash, £8802; de-
velopment and preliminary exes., £5656. The
co. owed the parent £17,000, and £118,428
had come in on 150,000 £1 shares. The
balance (£31,572) lias been since called.
The co. holds over 1000 acres, containing
roughly 100,000,000 c.y., over 26,000,000 of
which, in a selected 277 acres, gave a bore
average of .5761 b. t.o.
* :|: $ *
Tujoh has placed an order for a 200,000-
yard dredge, electrically driven, to dig 90
feet; delivery of pontoons within eight
months, and final shipment of plant within
12 months. Tujoh’s capital is £350,000, and
the dredge, big as it is; will have to go its
hardest to earn dividends on that wad.
* * * *
Tin Options is a Melbourne prospecting
and holding co. in the I’alfreyinan stable.
A couple of months ago the directors recom-
mended raising the shares from 10s. to £l,
and this is being done. The reason given is
that the balance of the co.’s funds—amount
not stated—is invested and would be better
left so for the time being. It lias also been
stated that negotiations are in train for ac-
quiring a group of properties to be pro-
spected and, if good enough, floated. On
the authorisation of the increase of capital
it was proposed to call up 6d. a share. To
date 84,163 shares have been issued. Shares
arc quoted at a nominal figure—buyer 6d.,
seller Is. 6d.


V-
ussy*
m
!^=iti
2-'XX
as
'?
fer IM « II
•&~i-
, '--•
Ss
=£v -.
2 -
r_ qy-
%
gV
Si
- v\Ncr.
Li
X 'M 1 -^
,sg
8^
n
r r
/ ,- /
££2^«r?
mP?
-A
Z? 2s^
r,mr
m
il!:! 1
=£3
il
3
8^
sss
m
\\
ISf~>
\
m
x,
m
w,
X
m
m
m
X
X
XX
&
xs
11 .'
: i 'i
XX
f\\ -•mjiiiifc 1
! • y *** —>
i.n
111 1
(L
X
feX ( X| I
XMXIV.
*;
!>
"/11l
l»?t
Xx ;
\ V
X<i ,
x AX
PC
r in
w^rt
ss
C2^
;
jc:
ifcl^
X
&
m
4de
i i
h
P
'-: \
zm
afM'r or*
HAMPION RESERVE
PORT
rm
i>m i
CX
5
F BOTTLED BY THE Makers
tH OMAS HARDY &.SONS LIMITED
/(. • 4 +> •» * *
—, a iQE MELBOURNE SVr\
- SOUTH AUSTRALIAN wIXe NEV
net IPINT 6 FLUID OZS -
m
fe ~»»!'
$§
*m\\
o
NX''
KfS
A
-&l\
Fortunate Tintara
GOLD-tinted by the rays of a happy sun,
the broad vinefields of Tintara smile
and gladden to a rich success. The repu-
tation of Hardy’s renowned Tintara wines
was, year after year, built here. The dominat-
ing factors of purity and excellence which have
placed Hardy’s Champion Reserve Wines
(Gold Label) on a plane of their own, were
created on the glowing fields of Tintara. When
you call for Hardy’s Gold Label wines you
know that 80 years ago age was given to this
fine vintage— age which gives every advantage
to an organisation that to-day can supply the
very finest wines at a price within the reach
of all. At this season of the year every home
should possess Hardy’s wines, and no present
would be more appreciated than a bottle or
case of Hardy’s Champion Reserve Gold Label
Wines.
Procurable in all Hotels and Licensed
Stores where the proprietors are
proud to specialise in high-grade
wines.


GREAT AUSTRALIAN NOVEL
£l7OO
PRIZE COMPETITION
First competition closes Saturday, June 3 0
The receipt of the following entries is acknowledged to June 23
rp;(.] e _ Nom de plumo.
•‘Chains and Liberty” Combo
“Marah” Turangamn
“Taeoru” Annys Darrell
“Far North Memories” Poisedon
“Lynette” Wingella
“The Brumby” (.low
“The Lady of Lansdowne Crescent”. .John Herzogin
“Whither the Fates Call” George Woolpack
“Redwing” • • Cockfight or
“The City that Was” Borah
“His Diamond R'eset” Marcus McPherson
“Saint and Sinner” Tiitucka
“Disenchantment” t
“The Challenger” W.E.G.H.
“Descent and Distribution” • • Eoba
“The Cave-men” Cumbelow
“Lucky Maidmcnt” Good Intent
“He that Hateth His Brother” Francia Hope
“What Became of Brown” . . Edmund Beauchamp
“Like the Huia” Bullseye
“Out of the Mist” Willinga Ward
“Skeleton’s Reef” Brinkan
“Andy Blew” Eoala
“Bracken” Charlaura
“The Sulky Bear” M. Le Grand
“Bett” Wonna-Milwa
“The Waggon of Birds” Edro Marney
“The White Grub” Moringa
“Ups and Downs of Ermyntrude Binks” —
Long Road Rainbow
“They Shall Inherit” Pax
“Filamina” Pandora
“When Winter Came” Stumpy
“The Coo-ee of the Hills” Mary Murray
“Life’s Ebb and Flow” Wattle Bark
‘The Mirthful Mutineer”
“Millstream”
“Quest”
“Inspiring Love”
“An Unweeded Garden”
“Shellfish”
Go Forth Little Book
. . Ballantine Temple
Theta
Zarelli.
Ovid
Rachel and Norah Ford
“Jean Armour” Caller
“The Open Spaces” Hannam
“Walter Wrexford” Tui Lakemba
“The Waxen Image”
“A Wanderer’s Mate” C.O.S.
“The Impossible Varneys” W insome \\ enona
“Virgin Wives” Winsome Winsome
“A Fresh Start” Jarrah
“Little Flower” ... Kennythe, the Teller of Talcs
“Gwenken” Kennythe, the Teller of Tales
“A Child of the Hinterland” Guichen Bay
“Deep River” XYZ
“So We Are Told” T. I. Sabelle
“In Sunny Australia” Gytha Paddle
“Merely Mr. Brown” Matupi
“Men Are Human” Bryan Ward
“The Necklace of El Hoya” Siriol
“Sell’s Stronghold” Ray Dale
“Lu-Lilli-Nuk” W.A..1.
“Riven” David Lord
“Tumbling Acres’’ Atchel
“Billy Both” Connor Mack
“Red Hibiscus” Maravo
“We and Some Others” Bitza
“Circumstance” Margaret Mee
“The Cripple in Black” Disley
“Bulo-ie Eye” Genive Daton
“Wainui” Turanganut
“The Street of Shame” Triboulet
“The North Easters” Hastings
“Destiny’s Thunder” Taro
“Doctor Duker,” Oocytin
“A New Tale of Sydney” . Roystan Durant
“The Hussy” Rob R°y
“Storm Bradley—Aust.” ...... Australian No. 1
“The Transgressor” Mongabel
“Over the Mountain” Cordeaux
“The Garden of. Bitter Sw'eet” .. Esme Rees Dufrayne
“Born to be Hanged” Edgar Clave
“Bill the Resolute” Harvey Marshall
“Sunshine and Shadow” Damoda
“Dangerous Deductions” Seventy Five
“The Meteran Road” Vernon Thomas
“The Mystery of Col. Bright” . . One of the Twelve
“The Captain’s Daughter” Charlemaiu
“lima” Codex
“Baal Budgeree Bill” Frank Black
“May It Please Your Honor” Nombrea
“From Out of the Fog” ■ • Sardonyx
“Lola Sue” Ucannindah
“Chameleon” M. A. Bruce
“Dale Freyar” Murray Horne
“The Road to Tartary” Van Diemen
“Vengeance Is Mine” The Cocky
“Gentlemen, the King” Cornelius
“Mignonette and Minuet” .. Peradventure
“A Bride from the Desert” A Trier
Title. Horn de plume.
“In Our Bewildering” Merivale
“A Spawn of the Devil” Ninion
“Mollie’s Secret” Peter Pickle
“The Old Order . Old Timer
“The Vanishing Horsemen” L’lnconnu
“The Veiled Woman” Sherrie
“Chapter Thirteen” Runa
“The Lost Brother” Kruger
“Consequences” Kilometre
“The Australian Benefactor” .. Migrator
“The Disappearance of Eric Baton” .... Paul Duane
“Poverty Pot” Koala
“B’olk o’ Twilight” Boobardy
“Cape Farewell” “ S.S.M.
“Marriage oi' Butterfly” Leslie Sutton
“Merry Christmas’ Udanco
“The Unsinkable” George Maitland
“Pokolbin’s Pride” The Imp
“Barbara Vine” •••• Mawnera
“Given in Marriage” Omega
“Sunset Is Red” John Lyoune
“Stunteri’ Telamon
“When the Northern Streams Ran Gold,” Sti'ingybark
“The Garage Girl” Glaucus
“The Four-sided Triangle” Judith Men!
“Peter and Paul” Te Miharo
“Hugh Blythe” Glenloth
“ ’Oppy Stanton” Jack Frost
“Walls of Splendour” Hope
“The Breath of Laamao” Fossil
“The Wild Colonial Boy” ; Mars
“The Box Room” E.H.O.
“The Perfect World” Quantong
“Joan of Jackson’s Crossing” • Heck
“The Devil’s Loom” Willoughby
“Cut Throat” ■ Albus
“By the Light of the Past” Monad
“Circumstance” H.N.
“Some Private Records of Felicity Vernon”. .Moolwa
“Eden Laurimer” Botany Bay
“The Naranghi Boss” Nneilwonga
“Desert Breakers” • Gneilpa
“Elouera” L’Enterprise
“Bella Harland” Nesta
“His Glory” Stella Southern
“The Golden City” Princess San Toy
“Many Faces” Aleta Charlton
“The Judas Woman” Dorothy Hamilton
“The Guardian of the Great Temple” . .Claire Morrison
“A Fatal Mistake” Mervina Fayne
“Dimples” Princess Pat
“The Golden Cup” •
“Under Capricorn” K. Kaywood Burn
“Love’s Garden” '. Diamond Fish
“He that Endureth” Kanimbla
“The Twists of Life” . Narrawong
“At the Wicket Gate” Howlong
“The Extinguished Light” '. . . . Strathdene
“The Scorn of Wealth ’ . Strathdene
“The Lake Woman” Chovahani
“Red Disc” Karma
“Tide Rips” Lakatoi
“Tricking a Wise Ladv” iu.lith Sans Punch
“After the Glory Faded” Judith Sans Punch
“Three Christmas Eves” • William
“Homes Across the Southern Sea” Archer
“Beyond” Mary Lindrea
“The Moon Worsliinpers” Beche Kirker
“Glamour” Henry Mostyn
“A House is Built.” Faith Sydney
“But None Shall Triumph” Georgos
“The Lawless Frontier” Spevo
“Donald Macdonald” M.M.C.
“Irresponsible Fan” Daphne Laurimer
“Actor George” Thistle Down
“The Tempering” Bngalow
“The Chain of Circumstance” Woodwyn
“The Girl from Blighty” Alfred Thomas
“The Scourge” Pippa
“Corduroy Road” Nam Warren
“The World Intervenes” Adelaide Hope
“A Plausible Rogue” •
“The Boomerang” •• • Haka
“Jack Armstrong” A.®-*:
“Brothers All” John Great
“The Mystery of Castle Glen” Kismet
“The Brand of Cain” Boobardy
“Flood Gates” A- J- Ltanings
“The Romance of a Biscuit Tin”
“Chimneys” •: •
“Washdirt” Bickerstaff
“No Good to Gundy” Lundy
“The Salt of the Earth” •••• Wayfarer
“King’s Come Back” Oregon
“The Impulsive Itinerary” Dorothy Vernon
“Sloper” Sqjwre Deal
“God’s Dear Sinners” Wanneroo
“Out Home”
“Ups and Downs” •• • ■ ■• • Bushbug
“Smithy of Boonadool” Cabbage Squatter
rji: t i e Nom de plume.
“Eve in the Land of Nod” Leithdale
“The Phantom”
“The Street Called Queer” Mark Nickles
“Within the Gates” • • . Bo< ?i n ? nlm
“The Blanket” • • Mane Malco m
“Chinaman s Luck” "• ®
“Raymond” Sapphna
“The World of John Kingston’
A. Highway and A. Lowway
“The Impromptu Wife”
“The Smiths and the Browns” .... Crystal Grey
“The Rebel” James H. Lawes
“The Heart of Australia” A. ” att
“Wild Cat” ••• G „ lea ™
“Where the Gully Begins” Rayma llanda
“Ko-wee” . Woolarawee
“Clay” Ripley Denman
“Old Banana” Kurrajong
“Peter” , lona
“Fetters” • Ringer
“The Champion Prince” • ■ ■ • Mnlga
“Waycta—Queen of the Laloukas” .... Charles Civry
“Two Queenslanders” Edgar Claye
“My Familiar Spirit” Princess hat
“The Young Australians” •• • Lindistarne
“Apples of Gold” W'
“Ginger for Pluck” Daniel la inline
“Love’s Light Wings” A. Sti'oller
“Peter” .! XR ay
“Tried” Lone Magpie
“The Decree” ... Henry New com
“Adventures of Tup Tinkle” ••• Austialis
Waters” Stewart
“The Captain of the Wyandotte” .. Australia Felix
“Sentiment Dethroned” Tinonee
“Back to the North” 1 ® e 'A en C*
“Even as You and I” . Old Frosty
“The Blue Beyond ’ R ? wau
“The Witch” To , obe
“The Eccentric Bequest” Goer
“The Healist”
“The Banner of Virtue” H/;>
“Ab Tuckaby” Hilary A. Latten
“The Splendid Quest” Rl ® x
“Destinie’s Pieces” ‘ IXl ®
“Country Cousins” ...;.• John Arnold
“The Giory of the Heritage” Bukalia
“Laughing Devlin” . Septimus
’“Bitter Blossom” Arual
“Judge Not” Neta
“The Money Spider” Mos-Lvnn
“Les Fantoches du Sort” Jeanne La Fileuse
“Red Rain” Echo
u The xlivGr ,> Oodna-Dacta
“The Clearer Vision” Phiieros
“Red Gold” A ™l e
“The Son of Judas” A.V....
“A Dinkum Australian” St. Oilier
“The Light Behind” Connor Maca;
“Bill” A2 l
“The Call of the Curlew” Martin Dalrymple
“The Striker’s Daughter” Marie Fox
“Me Myself” A. Gumsueker
. Normanhurst
“Ora —The Moa Queen” R.M .
“The Priestess of Cai” C.J.
“The Spirit that Prevails” Penelope
“Houses of Straw” Hartwood
“Flower Hemingway’s Romance” Wee-ro
“The Gay Crocus”' Stella O’Dorne
“Second Cousins” Elizabeth Proctor
“Vampires” Chevalier
“Mystery Land” Alcy
“Mountains Over the Sea” Marnwood
“David Morton” Maraget Marrabel
“White Witches” Balmedie
“Stars That Fall” Stella Australis
“Five Degrees South" Thomas Gordon
“Grass Orphans” E.R.A.
“The Precious Seed” Pauline Dupre
“The Crisis” ; lan Darien
“Clare Shielah” Hope Rede It
“The Latoures” .... Please Read Multum. in Parvo
“The Cuckold” Hakot
“The Indefinite Widow” Rupert Charles
“The Glittering Star” Lily Lauder
“Australia’s Dark Hour” . . . Peter the Hermit
“The Colonists” Ellen Bellew'
“Sydney Bush” John Joshua .Tagger
“The Shepherd King” Marie Verona
“The Gumsuckers” J.N.
“Ben Tambo” (No nom de 'plump')*
“The Beloved Country” ~ , (No nom de. plume)*
“Flinders” H.A.*
“Iby and I” U. K. Lvptus*
“Calamity Cavern” Efbee*
“Up the Country” Squatter*
* These . entries do not comply with conditions re
sealed envelopes.
Publication of the First Prize Novel will begin in The Bulletin on September 5.
In addition “The Bulletin” will contain all those features which have made it
known the world over.


Such a reputation is not won overnight ,T
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d 20 for 1/6
Major Draphin d 5 Co.. London. Branch of The United
Kingdom Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
W
T®
FINEST QUALITY
RUSTLESS
KNIVES
Made by the famous Sheffield
cutlers—
Joseph Rodgers & Sons.
I 2 Stainless Dinner Knives and
12 Dessert Knives. Complete
in fitted case
£3
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd,
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
fs
df
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Ivybo”: Tell “AdeL." (B. 16/5/’2B) that
an effective way to protect house-piles against
white ants is to build traps round the build-
ing. The traps are made by cutting out both
ends of benzine- or kerosene-tins and plant-
ing the tins about three inches deep in the
ground and about five yards apart all round
the house. The tins are filled up Avith pieces
of waste deal or pine or any soft wood, then
damped and covered with a wet chaff-bag.
ANOTHER OPTIMIST.
“Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to your inteVigence.”
Tlie ants soon find the damp, soft wood. In
about five days they can be heard working in
the tins like a hive of bees, and when the
tins are lifted the fowls (very fond of white
ants) will soon eat them up. Repeat the per-
formance every week, and the white ants
vvill leave buildings alone.
“Unnamurra” : The lizard re-
ferred to by “Pudden” (B.
i<i/f>/'2B) is apparently that
known to science as Maloch
horridus, otherwise the moun-
tain devil or horned moloch.
The inland parts of Westralia
and S. Aus. are his main habi-
tat. Owing to his remarkable
power of changing color accord-
ing to his surroundings, he is
not often seen, except by the
keen-eyed. At Denial Bay, at
the eastern end of the Bight,
I bought one from a Kukata
gin for two bob. Each morn-
ing he was taken out of his
box and legroped to a sapling,
at the foot of which small black
ants abounded. As the weeks
went by he grew no thinner,
but, despite careful watching,
we never saw him catch an ant;
so we concluded that he pre-
ferred to dine in private. But
when offered jam he would show
marked signs of appreciation,
and when touched about the
ears with a twig he would im-
mediately duck liis head be-
tween his forelegs, thus bring-
ing forward the two large
spines on the nape and making
himself look even more formid-
able than before. A quaint
little fellow’ was Mingaril, to
give him his Kukata name. If
you lifted a leg up and stroked
it gently Mingaril would keep
the limb poised motionless for
two or three minutes. Place
him in a saucer with enough
water to wet his little tummy,
and after a few minutes fine
droplets of water would be seen
forming on his back. After
worming his way into our hearts
during a three-months’ acquaintance, he sud-
denly died.
“Homfrey Beale” : A coalition I’ve never
known before is to be seen in the show-
ground at Gunning (N.S.W.), where a colony
of bulldog-ants and one of meat-ants occupy
the same nest. The two species formerly
had adjacent homes in a near-by depression.
Flooded out, both sought shelter in a nest
which had previously been occupied by meat-
ants, but had for some reason been deserted,
Whether the bulls recognise that the meats
have a prior claim on a nest made by their
kind and so tolerate their presence, or
whether the meats pay rent in some way
AYE, AWFU’!
SANDY: “But me mither-in-law she’s awfu’ mean.”
JOCK: “Yes?”
S ANDY: “When the old man lay dyin’, she went oot a while and her last words to
him were, ‘If ye pass awa’ before I get hame, blaw oot the candle.'”.
known to antdom, or whether it is the dawn-
ing' of an anty millennium, is beyond me, but
the two kinds appear to be perfectly friendly
and jointly defend the nest when it is dis-
turbed. Usually, if a bulldog-ant strays on
to a meat-ants’ nest he is taken below to
swell the winter larder, and vice versa. The
only ants I’ve ever known to share a cottage
before are the yellow-heads and sugar-ants,
which frequently do it.
*** • *
“Pandanus”: “J.R.A.” (B. 23/5/’2B) does
not say where his boys capture sea slugs,
but the method he describes has been obso-
lete for years. The modern method, intro-
duced by Abdul Rahman, who operates
around the reefs lining Cumberland Passage
at the head of the Barrier Reef, is cheap,
simple and effective. A long canvas chute
is used, one end being anchored away from
the lugger and hauled taut, with the inboard
end over the boiler. With a small endless
line a young female trepang, which has a tiny
electric light fastened to her head, is hauled
out to the outboard end of the chute, kept
there for about a quarter of an hour, and
then slowly hauled aboard again, followed by
every slug within a cable-length. In the
meantime the boiler-fire has been lit, and by
the time the head of the procession reaches
the top end of the chute the water is boiling.
* * * * ■
“The Welkin”: What’s the Outback com-
ing to? Called in at a squattage in Vic. a few
days ago, and about the first thing to catch
my eye was a heap of Yallourn briquettes.
They had an electric-lighting plant connected
even with the stables and men’s huts, a tele-
phone, radio and every modern home con-
venience. A baker delivers the bread, and
fresh vegetables arrive twice a week. The
hands, to a man, drive Ford trucks about the
homestead and further out: there wasn’t a
horse-drawn vehicle on the place. Woolbale
told me he contemplated building a two-
storey shearing-shed. I suggested he should
put a lift in it, and he said it was a good
idea. Then we walked over to the tennis-
court.
* * * *
“Oran”: There is one man in Sydney who
will testify any time to the stinging ability
of the stonefish. Returning from a dip at
the mouth of a Q’land river he trod heavily
on one of the pests and even after six years
he doesn’t care to remember the hours that
followed. Lancing, Condy’s crystals and the
continued immersion of the foot in almost
boiling water was the treatment followed, and
before relief was obtained he had chewed a
large new bath-towel to fragments,
• • • • • *
“Moe”: “Up North” (B. 6/6/’2B) is in
error in suggesting that the slight puff of
yellowish vapor emitted by the stone-fish is
the poison which causes such terrible
agonies. The actual venom is a colorless
fluid containd in a tiny sac situated at the
base of the spike through which it is
ejected. The sac’s contents are minute in
volume. I have seen half a dozen of these
fish dissected, and in none of them could
more than about 10 drops of the venom be
found, while in some there was hardly any.
It would seem that the rate of' secretion is
very slow. The action of the poison in
many respects resembles that of the venom
of the Indian cobra, with the difference
that it causes little or no disintegration of
the red blood corpuscles. The prolonged and
intense pain which it produces is due
mostly to a specific action upon the mus-
cular tissue of the body, causing the muscles
of the arms and legs to bunch themselves
into hard knots.
* * *
“Eromeno”: Abos. do knoAv things that
white folk don’t know. Out in the N.T. I
had a boy as offsider. We’d be looking for
days for mobs of cattle without success.
Then, after supper one night. Combo would
suddenly take it into his head to have a cor-
roboree with himself at the camp-fire. He’d
keep going for an hour, perhaps, and then as
he rolled up for the night he would remark,
“I tink we find them cattle to-morrow, boss.”
Sure enough we’d find them. Any member
of the Council able to explain?
“Sea Nomad”: A monster prawn fattens
himself in the mangrove creeks of Thursday
Island. He averages eight inches long, and
is as juicy as a young pig. Half a dozen
make a substantial meal. Similar creatures
thrive in some of the New Guinea rivers.
But the mastodon of all prawns waxes fat
in the great waterholes of the Mitchell (N.Q.),
where all fish grow oversize. Fifteen inches
is the length of well-nourished specimens.
They are almost as large as the smaller
crayfish in the Coral Sea.
* =:= * *
“AdeL.”: An outsize groper caught near
Burke town (N.Q.) recently turned out to be
a ladies’ marine store. Amongst a lot of
articles stored in its stomach were a gold
watch, a gold brooch, stockings and a pair of
shoe heels. I have known of sharks having
jewellery in their interior, but this is the first
groper I’ve met with a taste for hardware.
(Continued on page 25.)
"JEST AS I SAID."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now, let me tell yer, Joe’s a dinkum mate;
E’s stuck like glue ter me through thick
an’ thin;
'Is only fault is that ’e likes ter prate
Of what advice ’e gave ter ’elp yer win;
An’ then ’e pats ’imself upon the ’ead,
An’ says things turned out jest as ’c ’ad
said.
The other mornin’ as we left the camp,
“It’s goin’ ter rain,” ’e says, an’ takes ’is
coat;
The wind that blew from out the west seemed
damp.
“The sun’ll beat it,” later says the goa f .
It rained like ’ell all day ; but goin’ ter bed,
joe turns ter me and says, “Jest as I said.”
We ’card that Brown was sick the other day.
Says Joe, “I’ll bet ’is asthma’s got ’im
down.”
The doctor came an’ ordered ’im away.
“That’s ’is rheumatics,” Joe says with a
frown.
It turned out Brown ’ad noises in the ’ead.
But Joe remarks, “Now, that’s jest what .1
said.”
When after years of toil Joe quits this life
And ’e ’as gone where all must some day
go.
When ’e ‘as finished with all earthly strife
And stands before Saint Peter, this I
know,
Whether it’s sheep or goats that share his
bed,
’Is first remark will be “Jest as I said.”
QUEENSLAND.
BOONDOOMA.


A
ST A TEMENT
RELATING TO THE FUTURE OF
THE CHRYSLER CORPORATION
and DODGE BROTHERS
INCORPORATED
The widespread public interest in recent events affecting the
Chrysler Corporation and Dodge Brothers Inc. deserves an
authentic and official statement and an assurance regarding the
future of these two corporations.
Subject to the approval of stockholders, Dodge Brothers Inc.
will be acquired by the Chrysler Corporation, the plan of amal-
gamation having been recommended by their respective Boards
of Directors.
Each of these great institutions will retain its identity, and will
continue, as heretofore, to produce and market its own product in
accordance with the high and progressive standards from which
motor-car buyers the world over have previously benefited.
Each will benefit from the consummation of a plan which unites
such tremendous resources in material, manufacturing facilities,
financial power and manufacturing genius.
Dodge Brothers will continue to be Dodge Brothers and Chrysler
will be Chrysler. Their products will be separate and distinct,
and will be continued in production without interruption. Their
sales organisations will be unrelated except as they shall mutually
share in the advantages of the consolidation.
Both public and dealers may look forward to the greater benefits
which the consolidation of such tremendous resources will pro-
duce—-and the men identified with these businesses may be
assured of a stable and definite future, inspired by the progres-
siveness which has been responsible for this uniting of two great
companies.
CHRYSLER CORPORATION
DODGE BROTHERS, INC.
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.


COMMONWEALTH LOAN.
Interest, per cent. Issue Price, £9B/10/-
Period of Loan, 7 or 14 years.
CONVERSIONS.
All persons who hole stock or bonds in the 5 per cent. Commonwealth Loan maturing on 15th September, 1928, are
invited to convert into this new Loan.
All persons who convert will receive on 15th September, 1928, a cash bonus of £l/10/- for each £lOO converted.
CASH SUBSCRIPTIONS.
All persons may make cash subscriptions to this Loan.
The amount subscribed may be paid in one amount in full, or by instalments.
Any sum which is a multiple of £lO may be invested in this Loan.
D Both „S sh a PPhcations an d conversion applications may be lodged at any Bank or State Savings Bank; or at any Money-
Order Post Office; or with any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
INTEREST IS FREE
Commonwealth Treasury, Canberra.
OF STATE INCOME TAX.
EARLE PAGE, Treasurer.
“Tiki”: The claim that the Maoris are
the descendants of a white race that became
browned through a long
sojourn in the tropics is
supported by the fact that
the race has so success-
fully acclimatised itself in
the temperate zone. But
there is even stronger evi-
dence. In every tribe
there are occasionally
born children who are of
fair complexion, auburn-
or even flaxen-haired.
They are the progeny of
full-blooded Maoris, and
cropped out in every gen-
eration long before a
white foot was set on
Maoriland. These fair-
skinned Maoris are called
“kehus,” and are greatly
sought after in marriage,
the native belief being
that they partake of the
nature of the gods. All
the good gods and god-
desses of Maori mythology
are fair. In the case of a
kehu marrying a brown
Maori the offspring are
almost invariably brown.
I have never heard of a case of two kehus
marrying.
“L.T.J.”: “Pcnacre” (B. 30/5/’2B) ques-
tions “L.H.H.’s” statement that anthills lean
towards the west. From my own experience
in the so-called desert of Central Queens-
land I know that practically every anthill
for hundreds of miles does lean to the west.
In that country, which is as flat as a pancake
for miles, with no watercourses or creeks to
guide one on cloudy days or at nights, these
anthills are a decided help to all bushmen.
I have often struck matches walking through
the busb at night to see if I was keeping
the right direction.
WHEN THE WORM TURNED.
MUM: “Forgot it — huh! Halways forgettin’, you are! Tell you men hanything and
it goes in one hear and hout the hother.”
DAD (stung to protest ): “Tell you women anything, and, by gum, it goes in both ears
and never stops coming out your bloomin’ mouths.”
“Atherton”: Plants are continually exer-
cising intelligence and physical energy right
under our unobserving noses. In the N.Q.
bush a number of trees store their seeds in
pods which explode in the end and shrapnel
the seeds abroad. On a summer’s day I’ve
ridden under patches of these trees, and the
continual “pop, pop” brought back war-time
memories of sniping, made more realistic
when the nervy prad stopped a whizzing seed
with his ear. Another even more ingenious
THE DELIVERER.
STEWARD: “Grab a liƒebelt! We’ve run ashore!”
SEASICK PASSENGER (fervently): “Thank ’Lawns!”
scheme is that of growing hooks on seeds
and dropping them on wandering stock
below. I’ve often watched feeding stock
pushing by a particular tree-climbing
creeper. The moment they were under the
vine, down came a shower of evilly hooked
seeds, which gripped wherever they touched
the hairy hide. I’ve examined a dead calf
and found its mouth full of seeds, whose
cruel hooks had pierced far into the roof of
the mouth, and even through the tongue. In
such a case the plant would attain a double
object, for the calf would carry the seeds a
considerable distance to fresh soil, and, when
dead, would provide manure.
* * * *
“Murrungurry”: Alick Webb, an abo. of
the Wooroowoolgen tribe (N.S.W.), was an
inveterate gambler. I saw him one day at
Black Gully, a couple of miles from Wooroo-
woolgen homestead, playing cards with
Derry, a crafty old warrior of the same clan.
Alick was naked, having, in succession,
staked and lost his money, hat, boots, shirt,
pants and two freshly-killed ’possums. After
contemplating his lost possessions for a
moment Alick said: “Lend me ten bob.”
Derry handed him the money. Alick counted
it carefully and tossed it back. “Sell me
trousis,” he requested. The pants were
handed over. Putting ’em on, Alick went off
to Wooroowoolgen to earn another cheque
and, incidentally l , to cadge some tucker,
tobacco and a shirt.
* * * ❖
“P.M.”: I remember a fruit-liawking
Spaniard whose midday meal was even sim-
pler than that of “Garbut’s” Dane (B.
23/5/’2B). He tore a loaf of bread open with
his hands, shoved a big bunch of grapes in
and closed it up again. Then he sat on the
bread for a few minutes as he drove along.
When the sandwich was nice and flat he
picked it up and lunched.
“Wang”: “Presence of mind is a good
thing for any bloke t’ have,” remarked Old
Dan. “It gets a feller outa some awkward
holes, at times. I ’member one time I was
humpin’ Matilda away up amongst tli’
ranges in North-east Vic., an’ things was
pretty crook. Tucker was scarce, an’ hard
t’ cadge. One afternoon a mob of sheep
comes along. I reckoned I’d take a
chance, an’ when they left tli’ drinkin’
hole I sneaks after ’em, an’ after a while
managed t’ get a fat hogget tangled up in
tli’ branches of a fallen tree. I had him
stuck an’ skinned in less than no time,
when I spots a bloke moonin’ about on
horseback a quarter of a mile away. I tears
back to me camp, an’ I’m just in time to
get down t’ th’ water t’ wash me hands
when the bloke rides up. He starts askin’
questions ’bout who I was an’ where I
came from. Then I notices him lookin’
hard at some bloodstains on me pants.
Cripes! I tumbled he was probably one of
th’ station hands, an’ I got me wits t’ work
quick. I gives him a wink an’ a cunnin
look, an’ ses, ‘I know yer, me lad, you’re Ted
Rufus, th’ bushranger.’ He gives me a queer
look an’ opens his mouth t’ speak; but I
hops in quick with, ‘Cripes ! I’m glad t’ meet
yer. We’ll join in t’getlier, me an’ you. I’ve
just killed a bloke back there in th’ scrub,
an’ as soon as I wash these bloodstains orf
me I’m goin’ back t’ bury him. I’-
But before I cud say any more th’ bloke
lets out a yell an’ stickin’ his spurs into
his horse gets for his life. 1 rushes back,
shoves th’ sheep into a holler log, an' makes
ineself scarce. Next day I strikes a town-
ship. an’ goes inter th’ pub fer a drink, an’
who’s in there but tli’ bloke I’d seen th’
day before, puttin’ up a great tale to th’
crowd ’bout a great fight he’d had th’ day
before with a bushranger, lie nearly drops
dead when he sees me; but he’s gettin’ a
great hearin’, an’ so’s I won’t spoil it he
shouts fer me half a dozen times. But,
cripes! if I hadn’t had presence of mind
I’d have got a nice stretch fer slieep-stealiu’.”
“Blanc”: Travelling west from Leeton
(N.S.W.) I saw several hundred blue cranes
feeding in a fallow and all were turned
towards the setting sun. As one they raised
heads at the rattling of my car, but they
must have watched me sideways, for their
beaks remained pointing westward. I looked
hard for one out of order, but could not find
it.
❖ ❖
“S.C.M.”: According to Adventure, a
Yankee periodical, the sheep-shearing cham-
pionship of the world was won by an Ameri-
can, Richard Marquis, at Sydney in 1901,
when he defeated Jack Howe by shearing
one sheep in 45 seconds; Howe’s time was
75 seconds. Are there any living Aussies
who were present? It’s the first I’ve heard
of such a contest.
“Mulyan”: Stringybark, whose nature
study had been neglected, was worrying over
the pests he was unintentionally providing
for. He remarked that no matter what
plants lie grew, some special kind of cater-
pillar or grub came along to live on them
and hung around like a poor relation as long
as a leaf remained. “It’s wonderful how
quick they discover things,” he said. “See
here” (dislodging a green half-loop from his
tomato vines) ; “there wasn’t a one of them
sort on the premises till I growed tomaters.
Any amount of ’em now. Same with the
grape-vines. See them long, fat fellows with
spots an’ stripes on ’em an’ a little spike
stickin’ up behind? Total strangers in these
parts til] them vines put on leaves. They’re
so punctual turnin’ up for dinner you’d
think the plants rung a bell. I reckon those
science blokes who wander about collectin’
specimens are wastin’ time. Grow what the
damn things eat, an’ they’ll came to yer.”
$ * * *
“P.M.”: Sandy did not believe in buying
when he could borrow, so when he was short
of a horse in his plough team he borrowed
one from Slick. Mick met him in the town-
ship later, and said he wanted to start
ploughing anld must have . another horse.
“Ah weel,” was the reply given after much
cogitation, “Ah suppose ye’d better go and
borrow one frae somebody, the same as Ah
had to borrow from you.”
I SAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’E starts ter sling ’is weight about, 'e
thought ’e was the pea.
“Wot’s ’oldin’ yer? Yer’ve slipped a ton!”
That’s ’ow ’e comes at me.
But, spare me days, I’ll betcher that ’e’s
sorry now ’e chipped,
Fer I showed ’im, afore I’m done, just who
it was ’a:d slipped.
Course ’e’d been useter bossin’ blokes who
swallowed all ’e said,
An’ wasn’t game tor answer back, an’ it ’ad
swelled ’is ’ead ;
So when ’e comes an’ picks on me, why then
er course I knew
That it was up ter me ter show this peanut
who was who.
“Yer mighter once,” I says ter ’im; “yer
migliter got av;ay
With that game once, but you’ll find out it’s
different to-day.
You try it on with me,” I says, “an’ you
see where yer lob.
Yer mighter done it once,” I says, “but not
on this ’ere job.
“Yous kinder blokes,” I says, “forget the
world is movin’ fast,
An’ blokes like you,” I says ter ’im, “arc
livin’ in the past.
Yer mighter done it once,” I says, “but
them good times are gorn.
You try it on with me, an’ you’ll be sorry
you was born.
“Yer mighter done it once,” I says, “an’
that’s all right enough;
But now there’s blokes,” I says ter ’im, “the
likes er you can’t bluff.
I ain’t denyin’ that yer mighter been a
wonder once;
But if yer try yer luck with me you’ll
find out who’s the dunce.
“Yer wanter take a pull,” I says, “an’
nick orf fer a while,
An’ screw things orf. an’ you’ll find out that
you ’ave slipped a mile.
Yer’d better toddle orf,” I says, “afore you
start a row.
It ain’t wot you did once,” I says ; “it’s wot
yer can do now.”
’E won’t come chippin’ me no more. Next
time ’e starts you’ll see
’E’ll use ’is block, an’ try an’ pick an easier
mark than me.
So yous blokes wanter watch yerselves, I’m
tellin’ yer in case.
It wants a bloke like me ter keep a bloke
like ’im in place.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
The Service Department has come to the conclusion that it ought to be giving
more help to wireless users and would-be users. To this end it has added to its
great chain of professional helpers two radio experts, whose opinions and knowledge
will he available to readers who forward inquiries.
Wants.
Man (33), life experience station work,
wants position on N.'S.W. or s.-w. Q’land
station, handy, all-round worker, sober.—
6101.
Young man (22) seeks change from Cen-
tral Q’land to N.S.W. or s.-w. Q’land. Used
to stock and station work, 10 years’ exp.,
reliable. —5190.
By young man, Sydney, convalescing,
casual clerical work. Accounts made up,
proofs read, envelopes addressed. —5180.
Accountant and otlice manager, Aust., at
present in U.S.A.. live years’ experience in
American methods of factory management
and general business administration, desires
to get in touch with Australian manufac-
turer wanting skilled man.—5159.
By Englishman, 24, job, anything, any
part of world. (Direct to A. A. Dawkins,
c/o 17 Clyde-street, Parkside, S.A.)
By young man, Hobart, position as clerk.
(’omplete knowledge of fruit shipping; ex.
refs., go anywhere in Australia. —5105.
By young man, experienced packer, can
drive car or lorry, position Sydney. Strictly
sober. Ex. refs. —5100.
Young man (21) wants work in printing
trade, lino, operator or comp. Refs. Go any-
where.—5130.
To buy I-I.M.V. record of Lemmone's flute
solo “Wind Among the Trees.” —5128.
Whereabouts of Richard (?) Conroy, of
Q’land, who was at school in Sussex. Eng-
land. (To Anthony Still, Swan Hill, Vic.)
To buy “Manhood and Marriage,” by
Macfadden. —5175.
Two respectable young men (19 and 20),
college education, want jobs as jackeroos on
up-to-date N.S.W. sheep station.- —5172.
To sell vols. 2 and 3 The Lone Hand,
bound in cloth, 10s. the two. —5166.
To buy “The Golden Shanty,” published
by The Bulletin. —5189.
To buy copy of Collier’s Weekly, 22
Jan., 1927.—5185.
Words of songs, first lines of which are:
—“Tell me, little maiden, are there any
more at home like you?” “Wild birds come
at my call,” “The boy guessed right the
very first time,” and “In days of old when
knights were bold.” —5145.
Words of verse beginning “There are
many devils that walk this world.” (To
W J. Miller, Mt. Lofty, S.A.)
To buy early Australian postage stamps.
Send particulars. (To B. H. Young, Box
18. P.O., Babinda, N.Q.).
Whereabouts of W. J. Corboy, on Auburn
station, Q’land, in 1888. (To J. P. Henry,
Box 66, Yarragon, Vic.)
Whereabouts of Harry Woolcott, late
A.I.P. and Australian Drug Co., Sydney. (To
R. H. Milford, Darwin, North Australia.)
To sell “lea” moving-picture camera for
standard film. Lens F.3.5, complete with
tripod, tanks and frames. Will teach pur-
chaser developing and printing. £32 10s.
-5163.
To buy used British New Guinea, Papua
and German New Guinea stamps. Face
value given. Exchange stamps with island
collector. (To F. I. Butler, Loxton. S.A.)
Whereabouts of Miss Dolan, formerly mil-
liner, Don Co-, Burnie (Tas.). —5176.
To sell, doctor’s house, largest in Burnie
(Tas.), suitable for private hospital, £3000.
Terms—5176.
To sell handsome bungalow on large
block land, magnificent harbor views, Maniy
(Sydney), long-term mortgage, £1150 at 6£
per cent., £2000. or would exchange for small
farm within 150 miles Sydney.—5160.
To sell complete and well-bound file of the
Rabaul Record (Mandated Territory war-
time periodical).—5133.
To sell four first-issue N.Z. Forest Bonds;
£65 paid. Take £55 cash.—5126.
To buy Newton’s “Amenities of Book Col-
lecting” and “Poems of Charles Cotton,”
(To Noel Pearson, IS Earl-street, Rand-
wick, N.S.W.)
To buy Clarke’s “Geology of N.S.W.” —
5133.
To sell 3700 acres W.A. wheat belt, 20
miles sheep-proof fencing, boundary feuced,
natural water supply, comfortable home,
orchard, 1500 acres cleared (part adjoins
siding), telephone, daily train. £2 15s. per
acre; stock, crop and plant at valuation.
£2000 cash, balance over 15 years.—5093.
To buy “Daily Mail Year Book,” 1928,
—5100.
To buy “Tess of the D’Urbervilles,”
second-hand, in good condition.- —5097.
To sell collection of 500 rare books, cata-
logue post free. (To C. H. Eggleton, Wan-,
ganui, M.L.)
To sell No. 0 Graphic camera, Zeiss lens,
Graflex f.-p. shutter, leather case, good order,
£5.-5081.
To sell billiard-dining-table, 7ft. x 4ft., Syd-
ney. What offers? —5108.
To buy from Australian retailer or im-
porter brand of coffee that contains no
caffein. —5052.
To hear from librarians prepared to advise
country-town library committee on selecting,
purchase and care of books, and the manage-
ment of a library.—4948.
To sell complete Alexander Hamilton
Modern Business Course, 1925, in good con-
dition. What offers? (To “C.B.C.,” Hotel
Northland, Auckland, M.L.)
Information Sought.
(1) Testing four different 4 grades of
motor oils by dropping on a cast-iron pol-
lished plate heated to 700 degrees; one leaves
a thick stain, two others a little less, and
the fourth burns right away without leaving
a trace. Which is the best oil for motor
use? (2) Would the oil leaving most stain
carbon up an engine quicker than the
others? —soo9.
(1) The test is no criterion of the lubri-
cating properties of an oil and does not
in any way reproduce working conditions.
Clear, pale straight run mineral oils leave
no desposit when subjected to this test,
but they have not the heat-resisting and
high lubricating efficiency of blended oils,
which are mixtures of pale and red oils,
with filtered cylinder stock. Oils which
show up well on the liot-plate test would not
be economical in use, as they are very readily
burnt up under actual running conditions.
(2) No.
I have had a wall built of mud and stone
across a creek that is subject to frequent
floods. Is it possible to apply a cement
facing to the wa11? —4974.
Cement can’t be applied to mud. It may
be practicable to rake out most of the mud
in the service joints, driving short steel
rods into the wall at frequent intervals
and securing thereto steel mesh or expanded
metal. Cement compo could then be applied
as in plastering, or possibly a layer of con-
crete, say, four inches thick.
If I write a receipt for £l2 and hand it
to the person to whom / pay the money,
for signature, who is to blame if he neglects
to stump it? —sloß.
The person who signs the receipt is
liable in law.
(1) What are the qualifications of a sti-
pendiary steward of the A.J.C. or other
racing club? (2) Are the appointments for
a term? (3) Are there likely to be any vac-
ancies this year? (4) In what papers are
■vacancies advertised? —5070.
(1) A judicial mind, a thorough know-
ledge of the rules of racing and experience of
racing in all its branches. (2) The appoint-
ments, so far as the A.J.C. is concerned, are
for an indefinite period, but the club has the
right to dismiss. (3) Can’t say. (4) The
principal daily and weekly newspapers.
What arc the tiro highest tidal ports in
,4 ustralia ? —4911.
Hanover Bay, on the north-west coast of
W.A., 38ft. at spring tide, and the head of
King Sound, on the same coast, 36ft. at
spring tide. The rise and fall of neap tide
in these places is very small.
(1) A is playing B snooker-pool wider the
new rules. All the reds have been potted, and
also the yellow and green. A is on the
brown. lie misses the ball and leaves B
snookered on the brown. B, being snookered
by a foul stroke, nominates the pink. He
fails to pot the pink, and leaves A snookered
on the brown. Is A now entitled to nomi-
nate another color? (2) A misses the brown
and leaves B snookered. B nominates the
pink and fires just behind it, so as to snooker
A. Is the shot legitimate? If so, it would
be possible for B to snooker A a number of
times in succession, following upon A’s miss.
(3) Is B compelled to make an effort to pot
the ball he nominates? (4) The pink ball is
potted when the pyramid and centre spots
and outside spots of the D are occupied. The
centre spot oj the D and the billiard spot
are unoccupied. On which should the pink
be placed?- —4977.
(1) Provided B struck the pink ball in a
lawful manner, even though he fails to pocket
it. the stroke is fair, and A must play at
the brown as best he can. (Rule 15.) (2)
The stroke made by B is legitimate. It might
be possible for B to snooker A on the same
stroke several times, but it is highly impro-
bable that it could be done more than twice.
(3) No. (4) If a colored ball be pocketed,
and its spot is occupied by another ball, it
should be placed on the spot occupied by the
black ball. If any ball be resting on that
spot, then the ball should be spotted on the
pink (pyramid) spot and so on down to the
yellow spot. (Rule 9.)
Can you tell me (1) the name of some per-
son in M.L. who has cultivated flax (Phor-
mium tenax) and who could advise a pro-
spective grower? (2) Is M.L. flax an annual
crop? (3) If not, how often can it be cut?
(4) What is the cost of land suitable for flax
cultivation? (5) What is the cost of plant-
ing per acre? (6) How much would subse-
quent attention cost per annum? (7) What
is the cost of cutting per ton or acre? (8)
Is there any prospect, if flax cultivation is
taken up on a commercial basis and the pro-
fits of manufacture are more widely known,
that the price of the raw leaf will stiffen?
(9) What ought to be the average annual
yield of raw leaf from suitable land . pro-
perly planted and cultivated? (10) Is any
large increase in production likely to depre-
ciate the price of dressed flax and tow?—
4705.
(1) Frank Wall, Martinborough, could
give reliable advice. (2) and (3) If cut side-
leaf method, annually; if cut by hook, the
usual system, every four years; on rich soil,
every three or 31 years. (4) From £l2 to
£3O per acre. (5) From £8 to £lO per acre.
(6) First and second year, about 455. per
acre; third year, 205.; third year and after,
10s. (7) Hook Bs.. side-leaf 16s. per ton.
(8) If flax cultivation is taken up on a com-
mercial basis and the cost of milling reduced
—there arc reasonable prospects of that hap-
pening—the price of green leaf would cer-
tainly rise. (9) From eight to 10 tons per
acre. (10) An increase in production up to
treble the present output of 20,000 tons
would probably appreciate rather than de-
preciate prices for dressed fibre. Beyond- that
prices might be weakened.
(1) Does “improved capital value” ( for
shire rating in N.S.W. ) refer to improve-
ments outside the rated land , such as street
lighting, kerbing and guttering, or improve-
ments on the land, such as buildings, or both.
(2) If the term refers onlg to improvements
on the land, then if two adjoining blocks arc
identical and the holder of block A has
£SOO worth of improvements and the holder
of block B £2OOO worth, why should B be
taxed four times as much as A? (3) Is the
“annual assessed value” based on the “im-
proved” value, and if so, in cases of. town
blocks and residential blocks, what is the
usual percentage rate taken by valuers?
4850.
(1) Both. Improved value is the amount
which a prudent buyer would give to a will-
ing but not anxious seller. The existence
of such amenities and conveniences as are
furnished by shire services must be taken
into consideration. (2) He is not so taxed.
The general rates of a shire are levied on
unimproved value. Special rates may be
levied upon improved values, but these repre-
sent only a small proportion of the amount
of shire taxation. (3) The assessed annual
value is fixed at nine-tenths of a fair aver-
age annual value, save in cases of unoccu-
pied premises or vacant land, which has no
rental value, when the assessment is based
on 5 per cent, of the improved capital value.
How can I get rid of silver-wattle suckers?
4874.
The only way is to take a mattock and
grub them out.
(1) What is the best method of extracting
gum from the grass-tree? (2) What is the
best market for grass-tree gum? —<>ooo.
(1) In the winter cut away all burnt
matter adhering to the plant. Then cut all
the overhanging portion of the tree, which
kills it. With a good sharp axe cut a swath
from the top, right to the bottom, just baring
the pith or heart of the tree. When all the
fibre has been stripped off in this way it is
put through a jigger, which separates the
gum from the fibre. The gum is put through
a winnowing machine in which, the finer
quality falls through the sieves, and the
rougher quality, the most valuable, _ goes
down the spout. It is then bagged, weighed
and branded. To obtain the best prices, the
gum must contain two parts of coarse to one
of fine. (2) Write to McGlcw and Cos., and
Wilfred Picken, both of Ityan House,
Charlotte-street: Mr. Finuean:, Marketl-
street; and H. M. Russell and Cos., Ltd.,
Eagle-street, all of Brisbane.
How can I propagate from my Cuprcssus
lambertiana horizonta-lis and Cuprcssus mac-
rocarpa trees ? —5067.
In the case of Lambert's cypress, take
side shoots four to six inches long with a
heel from the branchlets at any time when
half-ripened wood is available, and place
around the side of a pot or pan in which is
a compost of sand and charcoal. The re-
ceptacle should then be plunged in sand or
charcoal arid covered by a frame (a low
box with loose glass as a cover would
answer). If bottom heat can be applied
tile cuttings will root in a couple of months,
otherwise they may take up to nine months.
The soil should not be allowed to become dry
at any time. Cuprcssus macrocarpa comes
quickly from seed, which is always available.
How can I make yellow varnish, suitable
for ivhite- or red-ccdar wood? —5091.
Mix yellow or light-brown shellac, 1 part,
with methylated spirits, 5 parts. Use more
or less spirit according to thickness desired.
How can oil stains be removed from a
granite memorial f—s3 22.
Scrub with very hot soap suds containing
cloudy ammonia. If this fails, caustic soda
and hot water might be tried, and washed off
afterwards with clean water.
How can I cure a wobble in the governor
of a triple-spring Columbia gramophone
motor?- —5064.
Put on anew set of governor-springs, and
oil the leather pad that frictions on the
governor-disc.
How can I eradicate khaki burr, or prevent
it spreading? —4773.
The safest method to adopt is to scarify
the land thoroughly to kill the adult plants
and seedlings of previous years’ seeds, and
to chip the plants on waste lands to prevent
them setting their seeds.
How can I remove stains from enamel
sinks and baths? —4802.
Cover the stains with a paste of whiting
and cloudy ammonia, let partially dry and
rub off. It may take several applications.
Information Supplied.
4973. —If your damp brick wall is solid,
three coats of the best oil paint on the
exterior might cure it. If salty sand in the
plastering is responsible, the only remedy is
to chip off the inner lining and have it re-
plastered.—“W.R.”
4564.—Provided that the low-frequency
portion of the receiver and loud speaker are
capable of reproducing music and speech in
a satisfactory manner, the electrical pick-up
is superior to most gramophones. The loud-
speaker and transformers must be high-class
instruments and suitable valves, h.t. and bias
voltages should be used for best results.
When purchasing a pick-up. state whether
the tone-arm of your machine is the English
or American pattern. Your present tone-
arm will be quite suitable provided that it
has a standard collar (either English or
American) on which to fit the pick-up.—
“R.C.P.H.”
Does Anybody Know?
(1) The best and cheapest method of pro-
ducing clean charcoal in large quantities
from green timber? (2) Approximate cost
per t0n?—5075.
I hold four bonds in N.Z. I*. Forests, Ltd.,
paid to £65. Three bad years kicked me
out of my selection, with a big swag of
debts to clear off. This I am gradually
doing. I have tried to find a buyer for the
bonds and failed. Can anyone show me a
Avay out? —5126.
Name of ship wrecked on Pocklington
reef many years ago ? —5153.
Brief Answers.
Digger: Don’t like the security »ut doubt
whether this is a good time to sell. . • - Home Seeker .
(1) Didn’t go that far. (2) Mosman. . . -b.P.N. -
There is nothing there yet for an investor; there
is plenty for a gambler, and one spec, is just about
as good as another... .E.M.: (D No strong opinion
either wav, but inclined to hold. (2) True; they
carry a lot of risk... .A.P.K.: (1) Five to ten
years would be a fair thing if a good deposit had
been paid. (2) Cannot advise you without knowing
the whole circumstances. You ought to be able
to obtain the information by making local inquiries.
P A.D.: (1) So far as early results are con-
cerned you could certainly do much better. (2)
Sydney Hendley, 405 C'ollins-street, Melbourne. . • •
j -yy . ) £32 10s. p.a. each or one at £65 p.a.,
only in'the case of old-age pensioners and provided
that thev have no other assets. (2) Superannuation
allowances of any kind are treated as income and
must be reported to the Deputy Commissioner of
Pensions. (3) Yes Subscriber; (1) If applicant
cannot get a birth certificate, the Pensions Depart-
ment will endeavor to prove age through shipping-
records. (2) The net capital value of property, ex-
clusive of the home in which he permanently re-
sides, must not exceed £4OO. (3) The pension is
paid at a rate that makes pensioner’s income, to-
gether, with pension, £B4 10s. per annum. .. .T.U. .
Latest figures state that there are 56,935 cow-
keepers in Victoria; 27,284 keep four cows and
under; 10,796 keep from five to nine; 5047 from 10
to 14,' 5925 from 15 to. 24, and 7523 25 and over.
.... A.L.; The Chancery Court’s list of funds in
its hands can be obtained from the Government
Stationery, Office, London, ss. and postage. Claims
should be made to the Assistant-Paymaster-General,
Supreme Court Pay Office, London J.8.F.: (1)
Apply to the Registrar, Divorce Office, Supreme
Court, Sydney. Such information is disclosed only
to the parties or their solicitors. (2) “Toe H’’ is
an army signalling abbreviation for Talbot House,
where the organisation had its origin during the
war. It exists for the preaching and practice of a
high standard of ideals and the giving of a helping
hand to the helpless P. 8.: (1) A boy of 19 is
too old to be apprenticed, but his age would ’ not
debar him from learning a profession. (2) Don't
know of such an institution. Business principles
are taught by the business colleges. A book on
etiquette might help 8.C.: Captain Leo MacLaglan,
10 Martin-place, Sydney M.L.: Write to George
Meudell, 7 St. James Building, William-street,
Melbourne Iv.L.: Anderson, Cummings, Ltd., 3
Hamilton-street ; Keep, Macpherson, Ltd., 252
George.-str.eet; C. C. Raw-son, 99 York-street; E. S.
Young, 11 Dailey-street, all of Sydney. .. .M.M.:
Sydney boot manufacturers cannot supply your re-
quirements. You could have them specially made.
. ...R.J.L.; There is no record of the family in the
standard reference books... .P.R.S.: (1) Write to
R. H. Cambage. Royal Society of N.S.W., 5
Elizabeth-street, Sydney. (2) Write to Linnean
Society of N.S.W., Maelcay House, 16 College-street,
Sydney. .. .W.H.W.: The barque Harvester was
wrecked on Seal Rocks on June 8, 1900.... J.C.S. :
(1) The new sole must be shaped the same as the
old one with a shade extra in length for the splice
at the waist. Channel the same as the old sole but
with less depth. (2) Shoes with pump soles should
be reblocked on the last as near to shape as pos-
sible. (8) Get “Bootmaking and Repairing” in
Paul Hasluck’s “Work” Series, Is. 6d L.J.S.:
The American Metal Cos., Ltd., 61 Broadway, New
York, might be interested... .C.D.M.V.: Write to
the General Register Office, Somerset House, London,
W.C.2. A copy can be obtained at the rate of 6d.
a folio (90 words) for an ordinary copy and 9d. a
folio for a certified copy plus Is. stamp duty and
postage H.M.: The price of sandalwood in Queens-
land varies from £2B to £35 f.o.b. Queensland ports.
The royalty is £4 per ton. The other variety you
mention is not considered superior. The average
price is about £25 and royalty £9....D.M.: Don t
advise use of that formula for destroying stumps.
The acids have little, if any, action on the stumps
themselves, but are a source of danger. .. .J.M.: By
becoming a member of the Aberdeen Angus Herd
Book Society. The bull mentioned could possibly
be entered in the Herd Book provided you can give
the identification, to be found probably on the
thigh, by paying a fee of 10s. for entry. The
membership entrance fee is £5 55., and 10s. must
be paid for every bull entered. Apply to the
secretary, care Badgery Bros., Ltd., 10 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney Orchardist: The proportions of
arse;iic and soda mentioned in the reply to 4236 will
kill blackberries without injury to the trees, if
used with care. Best results will be obtained if
application is made during hot weather; if other-
wise, use a slightly stronger solution.... Arthur C.:
Certainly; as long as you can put down on paper
what you mean, the “Land” page will welcome you.
J.R.: (l) Yes; if you have a tender skin use
cloudy ammonia instead. (2) Rub with warmed
olive or coeoanut 0i1....1ky: We have not been
able to get any accounts of this co. In the cir-
eu;mSta:noes, it is best left alone. ... F.H.: To
eradicate ticks in fowls, mix clove oil, four drachms,
Cologne water, 50z., alchol, 7oz. Mix the alcohol
and clove oil together and add the Cologne water.
Apply with a small brush to the places where the
ticks are present.... S.W.O’C.: Write to Elliott
Bros., Ltd., O’Connell-street, or Australian Drug Cos.,
Ltd., Carrington-street-—both of Sydney... .W.W.:
(1) At present naval recruiting is confined to the
entry of ordinary seamen between the ages of 17
and 21. Rates of pay for these ratings range from
21s. to £4 16s. lOd. a week. (2) A marriage
allowance is also payable varying from 14s. to 355.
per week according to size of family. (3) Seamen
are eligible for promotion to warrant and com-
missioned rank. (4) Apply to the District Naval
Officer, Naval Staff Office, Beach-road, Edgecliff,
Sydney. .. .M.M.: The series entitled “Australian
Repertory Plays” is published by Edward A. Vidler,
231 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne... .T.H.T.: In
1893 the population of Sydney and suburbs was
390,131 and of Brisbane and suburbs, 94,577....
R.A.P.: If the gifts were made within three years
prior to the death of the donor they are subject
to duty. . . .T.L.: (1) A lad in Brisbane could become
a civil engineer by being articled to a qualified
man and passing qualifying examinations. (2) The
Queensland Railway Department has cadetships which
enable a lad to enter the profession at practically
no expense. Applicants have to pass an entrance
examination. (3) Write to the secretary, Insti-
tution of Engineers, Empire Chambers, Wharf-street,
Brisbane... .A.C.: Nobody can guarantee you instant
employment on qualifying. At present the demand
for wireless officers in Australia is rather slack....
J.H.: You are not required to provide a second home.
Unless your conduct was such as to practically drive
her from the home she has no claim against you,
so long as your home is open to her.... (Many others
mailed.)


sdf
■
- >
■■hihms
lltili
■m :
gggg||f:g|
~” ■ •- - i' A v' - ' -.,*, •- „ i
k -■ : -ill
.
■ ii ia* mi ■ uni iiii iiii hi ■■ Hi
■
” : : I ISItK : :- V ; Si-vi.?
paaiisiiia
illlll
111 11■ ■ tijllljj I ■ fill'■ mill! I'--. ' ■ ' ■ .■ " : . . . liapifill
I«liil*inii« »#i lllilillSillllls 1 |§§ IfiI■ ttlf#|||l§ifpi■..: | ■: ; I' : mi
... ■•■ •.''■■■’l
LINDSAY STREET, LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
CONSTRUCTED FOR . . . The Launceston Corporation.
ENGINEER . . . .G. D. Balsille, Esq., A.M.I.E. (Aust.).
Tar or Bituminous Macadam Roads
REINFORCED
with B.R.C. FABRIC
Tar or Bituminous Macadam caged in our meshes of B. R. C.
Fabric to each square foot is so held that it cannot move side-
ways and thus cannot rut; it cannot move lengthways and
thus cannot corrugate.
This caging opens up a new era for road construction. With
very little addition to the cost it gives very long addition to the
life.
The booklet “Tarmacadam Roads Reinforced with B. R. G
Fabric” describes the construction.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty., Ltd,
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
'Phone: Cent. 8861. Works: Ballarat Road, Sunshine, Victoria.
n
Fabric
m
Sole Distributing Agents:
VICTORIA Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES . . J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair (Brisbane), Ltd
SOUTH AUSTRALIA .. Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Company (Aust.), Ltd., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND . A. C. Gillies & Laird, Ltd., Wellington.
»
r jL
Fabric
ss
sd


PEAPES
—for men AND their sons.
Goods or garments purchased at
Peapes’ cannot fail to give a
good effect, since the materials,
style and workmanship of all
Peapes’ presentations are of the
finest and best.
To buy at Peapes’ is to obtain
individual character as well as
tile highest quality and the best
value.
(Opp. Hunter Street),
Sydney*
W ft w
2003
METAL GATES AND FENCES
Cyclone Metal
Gates Stand the
Test for
Dep endobility
and Durability
Many Designs
are Illustrated
in the Cyclone
Catalogue
POST FREE
Fi*. 212. —Cyclone Drivweay Gate, 3ft. lOin. high.
Made to fit Bft., 9ft., 10ft., 1 lft. and 12ft. openings.
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE CO. PTY. LTD.
COMMERCE BUILDING, ASH STREET (0*350 G.ott« St.), SYDNEY
189-191 William Street, Melbourne. Exchange Buildings, Pirie Street, Adelaide.
The
Stock
Owner
%
W
who consigns Cattle, Calves, Pigs, Sheep
or Lambs to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
for sale takes a step which safeguards his interests
to the utmost, assuring him top values for his con-
signments and thorough care for his business in
every particular.
Rail or Ship Stock to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD.,
SALESMEN,
Hsmebush Yards, or Enoggera Yards,
Sydney. Brisbane.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
PREPARING THE LUCERNE
PADDOCK.
“Agronom”: “Hatter” (B. 6/6/’2B) says
the necessary bacteria for lucerne can be
introduced into the soil by feeding lucerne
chaff to stock in the paddock. The lucerne
bacteria are found on the roots of the plant
and in the soil in the immediate vicinity.
Therefore feeding lucerne chaff will not
achieve the desired result. As a matter of
fact, artificial inoculation of the soil,
although necessary in some countries, is very
rarely needed in N.S.W., Victoria or Queens-
land.
Should inoculation be necessary, there is
an easier method than broadcasting soil from
a lucerne field. This method served for
many years, but the soil had to be evenly
distributed to be fully effective, and this
meant that a lot of soil was required. It
also had the disadvantage that it was quite
impossible if there were no established
lucerne fields available.
Recently a simpler method has been
adopted. It consists of dipping the lucerne
seed into a strong solution of sugar immedi-
ately prior to sowing. Drain off the excess
moisture, then mix with a small amount of
moist soil taken from around the roots of
vigorously growing lucerne plants. If there
are no lucerne flats in your locality, write to
some friend for a few pounds of soil. The
soil adheres to the sticky seeds, and each
seed gets a supply of bacteria. Sowing
should he carried out as soon as possible.
Take care not to unduly expose the seed to
the direct sun before sowing.
BETTER FARMING.
“R.X.8.”: The Bulletin wants ideas
for better farming, and I have been telling
my neighbors about it. Of course I have
asked them their ideas. In each case the
answer was practically the same: “Better
luck.” The difference in the replies was
in the adjective that qualified the luck.
These men learnt farming on the farm,
whereas I started nine years ago with a
course at an Agricultural College. So our
ideas differ a bit. And when it comes to my
ideas for better farming, I tap the nail oil
the head three times this way: (1) Honest
work; (2) good seasons; (3) knowledge.
No. 1 is a matter for the farmer himself,
of course. There are plenty who work mighty
hard, but they know themselves that it was
not honest work —they could have made a
better job of it had they liked.
No. 2 —good seasons—are beyond our con-
trol, and unfortunately we cannot yet get
a reliable report of what the weather will be
next week, let alone next season. But
about 50 per cent, of the sting of a bad
season can be taken out by better know-
ledge. Silage, for instance.
Now as to knowledge. It is the biggest
thing of the lot, though placed last. And
if you are going to decide to try better
farming and make next season pay so that
you can see about putting in that lighting
plant, or getting that closed car they are
always talking about, start by getting the
right knowledge. It will be sent to your
door personally or by post. A s a taxpayer
you support the Department of Agriculture
in your State, and it is at your service with
a staff of highly-trained men, both in the
offices and in the field. Get in touch with them,
and when the inspector comes along take
him around the farm and go into the whole
position with him. Get him to start by
having an analysis made of your soils.
Rounds, pretty hifalutin, but from that
analysis they can tell you what the soil
is lacking, what crop it will grow best, and
how to treat it to make other crops grow at
their best. Ask them to send someone to look
over your herd, get rid of the loafers,
and look into your dairying methods. The
factories pay good cheques for high-grade
stuff, so why be content to send low-grade
when it can be remedied with the right
knowledge? Whatever your line is don’t
have any doubts about these Agricultural
Department men. Give them the chance to
help you, and when they see that you
genuinely want their help you will get it
laid on, and better farming and better profits
will result.
PLOUGHING MATCHES.
“Silen” : In the days before motors, wire-
less, tin hares and the like, many a day’s
“sport” was derived from a ploughing con-
test, when the cracks of the district met
with their teams and fought it out for the
best “land.” A good contest with single-
furrow ploughs was a thing worth going
many a mile to watch. The entrants would
get their teams in good fettle weeks before-
hand, and the plough would generally have
a bit of attention too*. The judging was
often the hardest part of the contest, as some
of the old hands were just about equal in
their capabilities, and knew it too.
Would not a contest with tractors and
the many-furrowed ploughs now in use on
any up-to-date holding be interesting? To
open up a land and draw a straight furrow
was, and is, no easy job, and the revival
of this old Australian “sport” would pro-
vide something clean and fascinating for
folk Always looking for the “new.”
Let’s hope that some of our “Men on the
Land” will give the old contests a wake-up,
and prove the Australian ploughman isn’t
off the map altogether.
DO HORSES’ BONES MEND?
“W.M.F.”: Time and again when a
valuable racehorse breaks a leg it is
destroyed, yet there are men who say they
have known cases of recovery. Hero are
three.
A three-year-old gelding is said to have
broken his oft' hind-leg just above the fet-
lock. It was bandaged carefully and the
horse kept quiet. For years afterwards
the animal did light work under saddle. That
the horse was badly damaged and recovered
is certain. But was the bone actually
broken ? I can’t vouch for that part of its
history.
Another man tells me of a well-bred
mare he owned having had her forearm
broken by a kick from another horse. He
immediately put the mare in slings and kept
her there for six weeks. At the end of that
period the bone had mended, and the mare
did years of useful work in both saddle and
harness. Not only that, but her owner
claims that when she died he examined the
bone and found it perfectly knitted.
My third case is one in which it was
stated that the broken hind-leg of a yearling
filly was perfectly mended.
Does any “Land” reader know any authen-
tic cases —something that can definitely
prove the fact of mending or otherwise?
WELL SINKING.
“N.M.L.”: A very common mistake in
opening up a short-supply well is to drive
along the stream. That’s no good at all.
Here’s a well, and the stream which feeds
it is running from north to south. A
stream is easy to pick up when the well is
bailed dry for an hour or two. Nine men
out of ten, to increase the supply, drive into
the stream. The water’s there —they can
see it coming—and surely to get some more
of the same it is only necessary to follow
it in a bit. What good does that do? You’re
getting all the water in the stream, and
opening it doesn’t make one tap of difference.
To increase the supply the best plan is
to drive at right-angles to the stream. It’s
almost a certainty that the bit of a shaft
hasn’t tapped all the water below ground.
It’s also most likely that other streams
will be flowing parallel with that tapped.
They go by the sides of the shaft. There-
fore, to give yourself a chance of getting
more water, drive at right angles to the
stream.
ERADICATION OF BRACKEN.
“R.J.S.” : The common bracken fern has
perhaps caused more heart-burnings on our
coastal grazing and farming areas than any
other pest or weed growth, and very few have
had real success in its eradication. Still, if
dealt with at the right time it can he brought
under subjection. Too often it is cut, and
then when dry burned. This only fertilises
the roots ; it is a lover of ashes. Try this
method instead. Watch the plant until the
under parts of the fronds are getting a
yellowish, dusty-looking color. This is the
flowering stage; by shaking over a piece of
white paper you can get a very fine light-
brown pollen. This is the time for action.
Cut, do not burn, but await further
growth, and at the same stage cut again.
This will bleed the plants and exhaust the
roots. The following spring will bring an
attenuated growth. While quite young fire,
and it will be found that further growth will
be negligible.
COUNTRY WOOL-BUYING.
“Grazier”: “Gamma's” letter on the
merits of country wool-buying (B. 30/5/’2B)
is rather amusing. He infers that the
grower is better off selling in the country
at the shed than taking world’s prices at
auction. He then states that two-thirds of
the wool bought in the country is ultimately
sold at auction. Why? There is only one
answer—it is profitable to do so.
“Gamma” states that it costs the grower
one penny per pound to sell in the auction
centres. Does “Gamma” know that in most
cases the grower who sells in the country
pays commission to some country stock and
station agent? He makes no saving on com;
mission. Anyway, what about “Gamma’s”
two bales out of three resold at auction?
It is going to cost them a penny per pound,
too, and they do not travel the country buying
wool for nothing. As for interest, I pre-
sume that the country buyer does not get
his money for nothing; he will have to pay
round about 7 p.c. for it. If the buyer can
afford to pay all these charges and make a
profit on the wool he bought from the grower,
why cannot the grower pay them too and
not be in pocket on the deal?
“Gamma” says more dear wool is bought
in the country than at auction. Well, does
it not look like a mug’s game to go snend-
ing good money hunting the country for
wool, paying freight on it to the selling
centre, etc., when it can be bought cheaper
on the spot, so to speak? What is the big
idea? Is it to give the grower a little
bit of help? Are the buyers just philan-
thropists?
I will admit that the buyer might make
some of his profit in reclassing. As a rule,
though, there is not much in reclassing; the
proper place to class wool is in the shed.
Anyway, the grower can have his wool re-
classed as well as the buyer can.
Country wool-selling is no good to the
industry. Some growers will always do it,
the same as some chaps will always do in
their wages at the races; it is useless tell-
ing them that it is a losing proposition.
But spare us the country buyer and the
bookmaker who says they are doing it for
the good of the wool-grower and the punter,
and inferring that there is nothing in it
for themselves !
DEPOT SHEARING.
“Mouton”: Depot shearing, in spite of
many failures, is the most economical and, if
properly conducted, the most efficient way
for small sheep-owners to get their sheep
shorn. The failures are due to two causes.
Firstly, the work has in most been
undertaken by men who do not understand
how to run a shearing. Secondly, many
depot sheds have been established by small
contractors who skimp labor in the wool-
room and employ cheap, untrained wool-
classers.
The first essential is a proper woolshed.
The yards must be convenient and large
enough to hold easily a full day’s shearing.
The sweating pens must be capable of hold-
ing 800 to 1000 sheep ; few farmers of small
flocks exceed this number. When the sweat-
ing-pens are large enough to take this num-
ber, most flocks which are shorn at a depot
shed can be cut out without a break. This
is very important, because many of the
sheep-farmers live a full day’s travel from
the shed, and if they cannot get their sheep
finished quickly it means shepherding on the
roads, and the roads soon become eaten out
near a depot shed. Six to eight good shearers
should be employed, capable of shearing SOO
to 1000 sheep in a day.
An expert wool-elasser is absolutely neces-
sary ; classing small clips to the best advan-
tage requires a man with a lot of knowledge
and experience. He must be provided with
ample and proficient labor for the wool-room.
The cut-outs are frequent, and much time
is lost if the work is not kept right up. The
wool-room must be ample and well arranged.
It is a good plan to have a few spare bins.
This will enable the wool-classer to start on
the new flock while the wool-pressers are
cleaning up the one just cut out.
The chief advantages that the small wool-
grower receives are: (1) He gets his sheep
shorn quickly, and, although he has to pay
the ruling rates, the saving of his own time
and that of his men is of great importance,
and the usual farm routine is not inter-
rupted, which is also important. (2) Few
farmers understand shearing as it should be
done, while the man in charge of the depot
shed is an expert, or should be. (3) He gets
his wool classed and packed by an expert at
very little extra cost, and it would be too
expensive to employ such a man if he was
shearing at home. (4) All properly-arranged
depbt wool-sheds have a good mechanical
press. This enables the small grower to
Bend his clip to market neatly pressed and
sewn and properly branded, instead of in the
lopsided, untidy long bales which are gen-
erally associated with small clips.
There is one thing that owners must be
prepared to do when shearing at a depot
shed, and that is to give and take. They
should meet before shearing starts and
arrange in what order they will shear, and
keep to that order.
CITY WOOL RE-PACKERS.
“Kojonup”: The sending of wool direcu
off shears to be classed by city
doesn’t deserve such condemnation as YVini
fred” (B 16/5/’2B) gives it. If the bales
are not ' tightly pressed the fleeces lose!
nothing in appearance. Without the hui y
skurry of shearing that rushes shedhands,
skirting and the careful classing ot every
line are better done. Moreover, by matching
one clip with another, according to quality,
condition and color, big even lines are poss-
ible and for these the re-packer who knows
his job can find a ready sale at a high
price.
WHY NOT KAPOK?
“K.D.S.”: “W.P.D.” says (B. 16/5/’2B)
that during last year kapok to the value of
£442,(589 came from the Dutch East Indies
into Australia duty free. There is no reason
why any kapok should come into this coun-
try free or otherwise. No vegetable is more
easily grown than the kapok shrub. It
withstands dry conditions well and seeds
spring up anywhere. A bit of waste land,
with a stray watering in rainless months, is
all it needs. No cultivating is required for
the tree itself, but seedlings want rooting
out —these pull up easily in wet weather.
Seedlings will transplant easily; but seeds
sown in the right spot, about six feet apart,
will shoot up quickly and bear pods the
first year. When the pods are dry and about
to split, go round every few days with a
bag, remove the down from the pods, pick-
ing out the few seeds—and there’s the
finished product. The little trees yield an
astonishing amount of down. A dozen trees
will keep anybody in cushions and pillows.
Cotton-growers might try,' kapok as a
saver. Open a kapok mattress: enough seed
can be picked out of it to start with. In
my garden, on the Lower Darling, these
shrubs have grown wild for 14 years. I
consider that a dry climate is well suited
to their growth; they need less water than
is supposed, and fine weather is a factor in
picking the pods which keep coming on. In
damp weather the ripe pods can be pulled
and taken inside to be seeded.
BUSH HAY.
“Fez” : In 1916 after a very rich growth
of herbage, our boys decided to mow and
stack a supply. In less than a fortnight we
had a stack of about 100 tons (there were
three mowing machines). The land (plain
country) was level, and one only had to
dodge the stumps and guide the machine into
the highest patches of feed. This stack
was not touched for two- years and it opened
up sweet and prime. YVe fed it to the horses
and sheep in long troughs made from sheets
of iron. The seed, of which there was a
big supply, was as good for working horses
as corn. The chief fodder in the stack was
mustard and clover. Mitchell-grass hay, cut
with the reaper and binder and stacked in
sheds, lasted for as long as five years and
opened up in excellent condition.
BOGGED SHEEP.
“N.M.L.” : When pulling out bogged sheep
it’s the height of cruelty to grab a handful
of fleece and lift with that. The best way
is to put the arm under the sheep’s chest and
lift and pull at the same time. If that’s
not practicable there’s no need to get hold
of the thing’s lugs, one in each hand, and
pull it out by its ears. Put your arms down,
one on each side of its neck behind the
jowls, and lock your fingers underneath.
Then, squeezing slightly with your arms,
heave back and out. That puts a sheep in a
better position to recover than any other
method. If it’s gluey mud it may be neces-
sary to pour a drop of water down the holes
in which its legs are stuck and loosen things
a bit generally, otherwise there’s a possibility
of its hooves coming up without any shells
on them, especially if it’s been bogged more
than a couple of days. If its legs are caked
with mud, clean them before letting it go.
Give the thing a chance. And if it’s been
bogged so long that its legs are cramped,
turn the thing over on its back, take hold of
the hooves and work the leg backwards and
forwards, exercising every joint. That re-
stores the circulation. Otherwise it stays
there and perishes.
If a sheep’s bogged some distance from the
bank it’s rarely tightly bogged. That’s easy
to pull out. If you don’t want to muddy
your boots, get a limb of a tree with a fork
in it. Cut that fork off about a foot or
longer, making a rough crook of it, and hook
that over the sheep’s neck behind its ears.
That gives a grip that won’t slip. With a
nice light stick you can reach them 10 feet
from the bank like that, and any you hook
have to come.
In any but exceptionally bad cases cattle
are pulled out with a horse by a rope or
chain round their horns and hooked to the
(Continued on Page 29.)


fsd
fs
df
sdf
sd
Built for Ease
with pliant capless toe
The most restful kind of shoe
—made of the softest tan or
black calf. Absolutely no stiff-
ness in the upper, save where
it is blocked at heel and toe-
tip to preserve the comfort-
able shape and protect the
foot.
This is a special Abbey design,
with low-cut sides to prevent tight-
ness at ankle and a distinct curve
in the lacing of the upper so that it
lies easily over the instep arch. The
shoe, too, is roomy. There’s no-
thing to cramp the foot anywhere.
And it is surprisingly neat-looking,
with a flexible, welted sole.
Order by Post.
You get practically a made-to-
order fit. Narrow, medium and
wide fittings are available in each
full and half size. State width re-
quired and ask, also, for a supply
of the correct Abbey, quick-shining
Polish (6d. per tin).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 37/6
FORTY-PAGE COLORED CATALOGUE
POST FREE ON REQUEST.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY
L7B
GROCERS,
JHE “EARL” BACON CUTTERS, “made
in Australia,” are always at your service—made
in five models, prices £8 to £3B, cash or terms.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
HUMPHREY EARL, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
The NEW Wieneke!
•h
rL
The Gulf
Champion,
£l5/15/-
Complete.
Posted any-
where in Aus-
tralia for 10/-
Stock Saddle
Here is the
dream of
every Stock-
man the
wonderful
Genuine Wieneke
Perfect in shape
for horse and rider
Send for my new
book —150 pictures.
Post Free.
Yours, always working,
JACK WIENEKE,
c/o JOHN BItUSH,
371 George St., Sydney,
and
432 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
Public Notice.
Australian Roma Oil
Nos. 1 & 2 Ltd.
'OR the convenience of New South
I Wales investors in the above
companies (advertised elsewhere in
this issue) I beg to notify intending
applicants that I have been
appointed by Messrs. A. Kussman
and Co. as their New South Wales
Representative to sell shares and
receive applications for same.
Prospectus mailed to any address.
A. C. WINNING,
3rd Floor, Rickard House,
84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Phone: B 5484.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
BIRKIYRE'S CLOTH
l?egd. Trade mark.
The best waterproof for motor-ear
floods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
TIIK
GOUROGK
KOI'EWvK
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
4GO Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
W&W2G.
II
London Office:
"Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAN!
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association ,
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
fsd
Milk
made digestible.
Appetite is an important factor in
digestion. Benger’s makes fresh milk
appetising to everyone. Even those
who ordinarily do not like milk, relish
it as Benger’s Food.
For a change, Benger’s Food admits
of many easy variations in flavourings vanilla, chocolate,
coffee, etc. Benger's is, at the same time, one of the most
inexpensive and valuable of foods. A cupful of
Food
at night, just before retiring, is one of the best ways to
ensure sound, healthy sleep.
Benger's Food is sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere .
Invalid Recipes in booklet,
post free from BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., 350, George St., SYDNEY.
Sole Manufacturers: Benger’s Food, Ltd., Otter Works, Manchester, England.
traces. With a horse which will “gee” and
“whoa” at the word of command one man
can handle them. The trouble is in
letting the thing up. The weaker a
beast is, the more it’s inclined to
charge as soon as it gets on its feet.
That’s why the horse needs to be out of the
road. After an old cow’s been pulled out, and
when she lies moaning on the bank, the man,
after taking the ropes off her, wants to push
the old thing’s hind legs under her. Then,
standing behind, and with a secure hold of
her rudder, he coaxes her to rise. It’s not
worth hoisting unless the cow hoists too. If
she won’t try you’ve got to wait till she
does make an effort. When the old thing
stands shakily on her feet, don’t let go the
rudder —keep it as a means of steering the
old thing up the bank and turning her atten-
tions from yourself.
Horses are pulled out by another horse.
There’s only one hitch —round the barrel just
behind the wither and over the chest. A
neck-hold is a killer with horses. The other
does them no harm so long as the thing is
disengaged before they struggle to their
feet and entangle themselves in it.
WATCH YOUR COWS NOW.
“R.X.8.” : Now that the grass is getting
scarce you have probably decided to give the
cows a hand-feed. If so, watch the herd
closely, and be ready to deal promptly with
impaction. This is a form of acute indi-
gestion, and is generally known as “dry
bible.” While it may occur at any time, the
change-over to hand-feeding is when it gen-
erally sets in.
Prevention is better than cure; so if you
are feeding bran and chaff, scald the bran
and feed it and the chaff moist. Add a
good pinch of powdered rock-salt, and don’t
neglect to add a good handful of oil-cake.
Prepare this by adding as much boiling water
to the dry stuff as it will take to make it
mushy. If you are feeding hay, add the oil-
cake just the same, aud see that every cow
can get a turn at the rock-salt.
The cows should not tie up when hand-
feeds are prepared that way, but if they do
you will soon know it. The affected cow
won’t feed and will get away by herself, and
when you go to her she will look very dis-
tressed and you will hear her grunt or gasp
occasionally. Get her to the bail and dose
her with half a beer-bottle of linseed oil.
Tuft her head just above a straight line with
her back by gripping her in the nostrils.
Don’t put your hand in her mouth to lift
her head. Work from the milking side, and
get the neck of the bottle on the back of her
tongue; while you pour the oil in, slowly
tickle her tongue with the mouth of the
bottle. She will swallow it all that way.
More than one dose per day may be neces-
sary. and generally three doses will have
cured her. If so, finish her off with a 4oz.
bottle of castor oil in half a beer-bottle of
warm milk. Keep what little milk she gives
during her illness separate from the rest.
I have never known the oils to fail, and
they are much cheaper than prepared
drenches. But if a cow does not show a
marked improvement after the third dose,
and she is worth more to you than a vet.’s
fee, get a qualified man to her as soon as
you can.
FEEDING BABY CHICKS.
“Agra”: The incubation period cannot be
considered complete until all the yolk which
nature has provided as food for the develop-
ing chick has been absorbed. This is not
accomplished for four or five days after
hatching, or, say, three days after the chicks
have been placed in the brooder.
This is the most critical time for the chick,
and every care should be taken to help it to
adapt itself to its new environment. A chill,
too generous feeding or carelessness in other
respects will prevent the perfect absorption
of the yolk, with sad consequences. To pre-
vent these it is necessary for the first three
days to keep the brooder temperature at
95deg. Fah., or even slightly higher.
Great care should be taken when intro-
ducing the chick to the artificial diet that
will be its portion henceforth. The yolk is
absorbed directly into the blood stream, and
if the digestive system is forced to function
too ea,rly, the earlier system atrophies, and the
result is that a portion of the yolk remains
unabsorbed and forms into a ball resembling
hard-boiled egg-yolk in the abdomen of the
chick. To avoid this, the digestive system
should be brought to function very gradually.
A plentiful supply of wmter and small-sized
sliell-grit should be available to them some
hours previous to their first meal, for both
of these stimulate the digestive system to the
performance of its new duties.
Once the chicks are drinking freely, begin
to feed small quantities of food, but not too
often during the first three days. Do not
starve them, of course; give them sufficient
to supplement the still unabsorbed portion of
the egg-yolk. But make sure that during
this period they are never filled to repletion.
CHICKEN REARING.
“Pullet”: Although the art of setting the
broody hen to raise chickens is by far the
most satisfactory, the inclination to buy
day-old chicks from poultry farms, which
produce them by incubation, is spreading,
and it is common to see batches of 100 and
even more sent to remote districts. If care
is taken in feeding and attention, there’s no
reason why day-old chicks should not be
reared with a minimum of loss.
If a bought brooder is not available, a
box can be prepared very simply to provide
warmth for the young chickens at night.
Provide some warm material for the bottom
and, by means of a light frame above, lay
a piece of old blanket or woollen cloth so
that it will sag and lightly touch the chickens’
backs. Take care to see the chickens are not
overcrowded and are not too warm or too
cold; if the former, they will hang around
the edges of the box, and if too cold they
•will form up into a bunch.
It is bad to young chickens to
scratch about on stale ground or on soil
that other fowls have been running on. If
this is allowed they Mill very likely con-
tract disease. In all cases,' if a young
chicken appears to be sick or weakly, kill
it. “One to-day, more to-morrow.”
The best feed for the first couple of
weeks is rolled oats and sour milk, to be
followed by finely-ground wheat and maize,
with the addition of dry mash, consisting of
bran, pollard and rolled oats. Grit and
charcoal should always be available and a
supply of green stuff is necessary.
Unless young chickens get all the benefits
of the sun’s rays, they can never be healthy.
See they get it.
BROODY HENS.
“P.L.T.”: At the Bendigo egg-test the egg-
yield has not been affected seriously by
broodies. The broodies found are not half-
drowned, nor are they hung on trees, nor
tethered to posts, nor placed in rough-bot-
tomed. uncomfortable coops. Tours of the
pens are made by the manager. If he hears
a bird clucking but still on her feet, he does
not disturb her. As soon as she takes to
the nest she is removed, given a run of a
grassed pen, and care is taken that she is
comfortable and fed correctly. On the fol-
lowing morning she is given a good mash
consisting of two parts of bran, two parts
of pollard and one ounce of meat. Chaffed
lucerne and minced raw onions are added to
this mash, and the bird is encouraged to
eat as much as possible. In the evening she
is given a grain mixture, mostly of maize.
This feeding formula is somewhat more
forcing than that given to the ordinary non-
broody layers. Under this method of hand-
ling the birds are generally out of the pen
but a few days. The heavier the layer the
shorter time she is out.
GRAFTING.
“L’Fou”: Grafting-over of unsatisfactory
trees is in progress in many gardens, and
should be in more where mistakes have been
made in selection. Given sound stocks, it is
a quick renovation, and easier than replant-
ing. But one must know the trees as a
farmer knows his individual cows, and test
and cull with the same discrimination. Some
nurserymen almost apply psychoanalysis in
their efforts to determine the most suitable
scions for stocks. For affinities and repul-
sions do exist among, say, apples or pears
as among humans. Most dealers will supply
fairly satisfactory lists of varieties suited to
each other.
But having decided on variety, don't let it
go at that. In every orchard where trees
of the same kind are grown under similar
conditions, there are some which will crop
more heavily or ripen earlier than others. Get
scions from these trees. Better still, have
such an observant eye to them that you can
pick out the best fruiting branches and pro-
pagate from them. Most people are aware
of the use of selection in reaching our
present high standard of fruit. What they
don’t realise is that we haven’t reached a
dead-end, and that continuous selection and
improvement is desirable.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“T.W.”: Rabbit-skin buyers in Victoria
are complaining that large quantities of
skins are being incorrectly stretched. Pull
them on the stretchers side against side, so
that a paw-skin shows on either side.
“D.li.”: How many cockies know that
when they turn their lambs out to crop tur-
nip-tops the animals are in grave danger of
inflammation of the stomach? A M.L. South
Islander found this out the other day, when
he lost 250 lambs out of a choice flock.
Ignorance of this hint cost him £450.
“Nemo” : Where coarse summer grass pre-
vails burn it off and have the land ploughed
twice and sown with lucerne-seed mixed with
rye or some good clover-seed. The carry-
ing capacity should be doubled, and the
coarse, useless grass will not get a footing
again.
“N. 8.: A neighbor recently had a horse
suffering from what he thought was “sand.”
He drenched it with one pint of kerosene
through the nose. It was dead in less than
48 hours. Apart from the fact that kero-
sene was no use in such a case, anyway,
drenching through the nose is highly dan-
gerous. The liquid is always liable to
reach the lungs, with pneumonia to follow.
“ Jesmond” : The easiest way to find rabbit-
traps is to set in a furrow; it is the best
way to catch Bunny, too —he always follows
freshly-turned earth. We always trap our
paddocks in this way, following with a
poisoning about a month later; and the
results invariably surprise the local rabbit
inspector.
“Nat Y.”: “Mephisto” mentions the sand-
blower for cleaning eggs. Far better if the
need for washing or cleaning can be avoided.
Artificial cleaning removes the natural
gloss and spoils its appearance. It will pay
the poultry-keeper to keep the pens dry and
the nests clean.
“P.M.”: There is a glut of potatoes in
Victoria, and the cockies are crying about
it. One ton of potatoes will fatten a pig.
Potatoes at present bring about £3 10s. per
ton in Melbourne. After paying freight,
bags, cartage and digging, that leaves about
30s. for cultivation. Turn the pigs into the
paddock and they will dig their own, and
a medium-sized baconer is worth over £3
on the farm.
“Blowfly”: If any reader is troubled with
eaglehawks or crows at lambing, I advise
the following procedure. Kill an old sheep
and skin it; then practically cut the
shoulder from the body and insert strychnine
into the cuts made under the shoulder. The
poison should also be laid on other parts of
the body. If the hind-legs are treated in a
similar fashion, all traces of the poison and
tampering with the carcase are eliminated.
“Lalal”: A sure bait and irresistible tit-
bit for the wily fox that makes his nightly
raid on the young lambs is to drop poisoned
parrots—galahs for preference—at intervals
along a trail prepared by dragging a well-
roasted _ lamb or rabbit. Half a grain of
strychnine placed down the beak and in one
incision on the breast of the bird while still
warm will do the trick. There is no need
to tie up that valuable tyke when this method
is used. Nor need you add baking soda,
etc., to the strychnine.


Chances of
AT THE PRICE OF ONES'
AUSTRALIAN
OIL
Mr. R. Evans, American
Oil Expert, says —
“l consider that there has
been a discovery of oil
and gas at Roma , and the
field should no longer be
regarded as a prospect
A working agreement has been entered into between AUSTRALIAN ROMA OIL No. 1 LIMITED and AUSTRALIAN ROMA OIL No. 2 LIMITED
whereby it is provided that the shareholders of each Company shall benefit by the discovery of oil and/or gas in the areas prospected by either Australian
Roma Oil No. 1, Limited, or Australian Roma Oil No. 2, Limited. THIS MEANS THAT THE SHAREHOLDERS IN EACH COMPANY HAVE THE
ADVANTAGE OF THE EXPLOITATION OF TWO DISTINCT COMPA NIES WITH THE AGGREGATE CAPITAL OF £500,000 PROSPECTING
FOR OIL, THEREBY DOUBLING THE CHANCE OF SUCCESS.
The directors of hath companies trill also have as a recommendation that two boring plants be put into operation by each company, so as to enable four bores to be sinking
at the one time on different sites which will be chosen by the companies' Geologist, Dr . 11. I. Jensen, D.Sc. This plan would quadruple the chances of quick success.
FAITH.
The members of the Australian Oil
Syndicate demonstrate their faith in
these companies by accepting full con-
sideration in shares for the transfer of
these permits.
It ivill be noted that the vendors do
not receive any cash consideration what-
ever, and that the number of shares to
be allotted to them represents only six
per cent, of the authorised capital.
These Two Companies Control an Area of 25,000 Acres in Picked Positions on the Roma Field!
AUSTRALIAN ROMA OIL No. 1, LTD.
CAPITAL: £250,000 in 500,000 Shares of 10/- each.
AUSTRALIAN ROMA OIL No. 2, LTD.
CAPITAL: £250,000 in 500,000 Shares of 10/- each.
DIRECTORS:
E. C. SAINT-SMITH, Esq., F.S.T.C., late
Government Geologist, Sandgate Road,
Nundah, Brisbane.
MAJOR F. L. DAWSON, Company Director,
Courier Buildings, Queen Street, Brisbane.
J. JARDINE GRAHAM, Esq., Retired Bank
Manager, Bank of New South Wales, Bris-
bane, Queensland Club, Brisbane.
E. H. JULIUS, Esq., Company Director,
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
J. M. GRAY-BUCHANAN, Esq ~ Grazier,
Kitchener Road, Ascot, Brisbane.
CONSULTING GEOLOGIST:
Dr. H. I. JENSEN, D.Sc.
BANKERS:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
Brisbane.
AUDITORS:
Messrs. ROBINSON & JOLLY,
Fellows of The Australasian Corporation
Public Accountants,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOLICITORS:
Messrs. FLOWER & HART,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
SECRETARY:
R. HENZELL, A.F.1.A., A.A.I.S.
REGISTERED OFFICE of the COMPANY
ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE.
BROKERS:
Messrs. A. KUSSMAN & COMPANY,
229 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
DIRECTORS:
E. C. SAINT-SMITH, Esq., F.S.T.C., late
Government Geologist, Sandgate Road,
Nundah, Brisbane.
MAJOR F. L. DAWSON, Company Director,
Courier Buildings, Queen Street, Brisbane.
L. W. BORLAND, Esq., Managing Director
Maranoa Trading Co., Roma.
M. N. O’SULLIVAN, Esq., Solicitor,
Brisbane.
Dr. A. BUCHANAN STEELE, Medical
Practitioner, Brisbane.
CONSULTING GEOLOGIST:
Dr. H. I. JENSEN, D.Sc.
BANKERS:
AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE,
LIMITED.
AUDITORS:
Messrs. OFFNER HADLEY & CO., F.I.C.A.
London Bank Chambers, Queen Street
Brisbane.
SOLICITOR:
M. N. O’SULLIVAN, Esq.
SECRETARY:
R. HENZELL, A.F.1.A., A.A.I.S.
REGISTERED OFFICE of the COMPANY:
ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE.
BROKERS:
Messrs. A. KUSSMAN & COMPANY,
229 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Extracts from Report on Permit No. 61 by Dr. H. /. Jensen, D.Sc.
This permit is situated 1 2 miles northerly from present boring operations of Roma Oil
Corporation.
“The whole of the permit is in the Middle Walloon Series, and in the uppermost
portion of it. The depth of the oil zones ranges from 2000 to 2500 feet, according to
the place referred to in the permit, that is MORE THAN 1000 FEET LESS THAN AT
ROMA.”
“As will be noticed on the plan, there is no doubt that a strong anticline runs through
the area. This was suspected by me several years ago, mainly on physiographic grounds,
but detail work has corroborated the existence of this structure. THIS ANTICLINE IS THE
SAME ANTICLINE FROM WHICH THE ROMA BORE DRAWS ITS GAS AND OIL,’
“I CONSIDER THAT AT THE POINT INDICATED THE OIL ZONE SHOULD
BE REACHED AT 2 100 FEET.”
LOCAL SKETCH
SHOWING THE
PERMITS CON-
TROLLED BY
THESE TWO
COMPANIES.
bltthoale
! PPP4B PP.p.Si
AUSTRALIAN l\ M |OCONTINEHTAL
° ,L . MinFS LTD
INDUSTRIES II
PPP 99
Queensland
ROMA
flppnl67
OIL LTD
Eastern
ROMA
P.PR 62
Australian
FIELDS
LTD.
ROMA OIL
N<?2 LTD
blockT-ltc
PPP
AUSTRALIAN
INDUSTRIES
BICEK A- \7777i
LTD- V///J
pp.p.IA-
RQRIA oil
CORPORATION
LTD
P.P.P.61
AUSTRALIAN
Roma Oil
N9I.LTD.
RONIA
p.F.r hi RF.
ppP is
ROMA O' 1 ;
MIOCONIiIHirNTH
\
ppp 67
Queensland
ROMA OIL
LTD.
ppp + 7 pfPJST
AUSTRAL.
MINES »NO
BLOCKM\ «trO o LEUM
1 PP.R2B
“AUSTRALIAN OIL
INDUSTRIES
BLOCK'K'LTD.
y~>
»PP44
AUSTRALIAN
in Permit 62,
Extracts from the expressed written opinions of Mr. E. S. Saint-Smith, F.S.T.C. (Geologist-
to be operated by Australian Roma Oil No. 2 Limited): —
In view of the great probability of the southern extension of a broad anticlinal structure being ultimately proved
by scout-boring to traverse your permit area in a north-south direction, the excellent transport facilities provided by
the Main Western Railway Line, which fronts your southern boundary, THE FACT THAT ABOUT 750 FEET
LESS BORING IS REQUIRED HERE TO REACH THE SAME OIL AND GAS HORIZON IN THE LOWER
WALLOON SERIES AS THE ROMA OIL CORPORATION'S No. 1 (Producing) BORE, some ten miles
Westerly of Bythdale, and also the fact that INDICATIONS OF THE EXISTENCE OF OIL WERE RECORDED
FROM THE NEIGHBORING WAROOBY (Water) BORE ABOUT SIXTEEN YEARS AGO by the Public Estates
Improvements Branch, IT APPEARS A REASONABLE PROSPECTING GAMBLE to have your area, and more
particularly the western section, scout-bored in the first instance to locate the position of the anticlinal structure or
other structures favorable for oil, such as domes, terraces, etc.
Extracts from the report of Dr. H. I. Jensen, D.Sc., on Permit No. 116, containing 5000 acres approxi-
mately, to be operated by Australian Roma Oil No. 2, Limited: —
“A PORTION IN THE SOUTH-WEST CORNER IS PART OF THE DOME ON P.P.P. 67.”
Prospecting Permit No. 67 adjoins this Permit No. 116. The part of the dome referred to in the extracts above
is portion of the dome so favorably reported upon by Dr. Jensen for Queensland Roma Oil Limited.
By courtesy of the Directors of Queensland Roma Oil, Limited, the following extracts from this report
are quoted: —
“The extreme north-western portion of Petroleum Prospecting Permit 67 has a perfect dome structure, which,
although caused by volcanic intrusion, is a most favorable locality for boring, being akin to the volcanic plugs of New
Mexico. The time which has elapsed since the volcanic eruption (Middle Tertiary) is sufficiently long to have permitted
extensive migration of oil into this dome.”
“The strata from which the Roma Bore draws oil and gas would occur near the southern boundary of this Permit,
at a depth of about 2000 feet, and at the northern boundary, at a depth of about 1700 feet.
“THE AREA IS, THEREFORE, IN THAT BELT WHICH I PERSONALLY PREFER AND RECOMMEND
FOR OIL PROSPECTING BORES. AN AREA LIKE PETROLEUM PROSPECTING PERMIT 67 MAY


“1 WOULD NOT IN THIS CASE ADVISE THE SPENDING OF MONEV IN SCOUT
BORING, AS I CONSIDER EVIDENCE OF STRUCTURE QUITE SUFFICIENT ON
THE DATA SUPPLIED.”
industries
BIOCK'N
'
PLANT
1 he combined directorates have been very
fortunate in securing the services of two
skilled oil- and gas-drilling experts, and they
have accepted Mr. Allender’s advice as a
recommendation to purchase the most
modern rotary drilling plants.
Listing of Shares
on Stock Exchanges
Application will be made in due course for
listing of the Shares on the Stock Exchanges
of Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Perth and Hobart.
CORE-BARREL
A Core-barrel will be used, so that the geological
formations can be thoroughly tested and the risk
of missing oil sands eliminated.
::
!ssss
The photo shows 19 feet of core brought up from a depth of
3200 feet in a 16-inch hole in Ventura, California, By the use
of a core barrel no risk is taken of missing favorable formations.
BRIEF HISTORY OF ROMA OILFIELD
The first bore at Roma was sunk to a depth of 3707 feet,
under the supervision of Mr. J. B. Henderson, Hydraulic Engineer,
on behalf of the Roma Town Council, in an attempt to increase
the supply of artesian water for the town, and gas was struck
on the 10th October, 1900. The gas flow from this bore when
struck was 70,000 cubic feet per day, and it was allowed to
waste freely for four and a half years. In February, 1904, the
gas was again measured, with a view of supplying the town, and
showed a flow of 72,264 cubic feet in 24 hours. In June, 1906,
the town was reticulated and the streets lit with gas. The
plant, after running successfully for a few days, was handed
over to the Municipal Authority on the 6th June, 1906, and
householders were preparing to reticulate their houses. Roma
was lit by natural gas for 10 days —or, to be more correct, for
10 nights —when on the night of the 16th June, 1900, the
gas suddenly gave out and the town was left in darkness.
THE ROMA BORE FIRE
According to Geologist Cameron, the gas was petroliferous,
and since proved to be so, and the flow for so long a period
' aised hopes that reservoirs of oil might be found in the same
rtratum. In July, 1907, the second deep bore at Roma was
commenced 234 feet distant from the first bore. Drilling con-
tinued to 3703 feet, when a heavy flow of gas, estimated at
250 000 cubic feet per day, was again struck on the 7th October,
1008 This flow suddenlv caught fire, and burned with such
fierceness that in three or'four minutes the iron derrick softened
■mrl collapsed in a heap over the bore.
From the outbreak of the fire on the 27th of October until
it was extinguished on the 12th December of the same year,
the wild sea of flame continued to belch forth, and the
reflection was visible at night from a distance of 40 miles, and
the roar of the fire was heard miles away.
\fter the fire was put out, the flow of gas had couside. able
{ yrc e and while efforts were beimj made to remove the casing,
in order to replace the damaged top lengths, the gas suddenly
ceased altogether.
In 1914 the Queensland Government, under Premier Denham,
brought out from America a complete cable drilling' plant.
The' plant was large and considered up-to-date at that time.
The hole diameter at the commencement was 15J inches. The
progress, however, was slow— so slow that it was four years
after the commencement that the bore reached the interesting
depth of 3707 feet, at which depth the accident happened which
left the bit and a string of jarring tools, weighing 2 tons 15cwt.,
at the bottom of the well.
Since the year 1914, the year the Government bore was
started at Roma, there has been rapid advancement in drilling
operations. The bore at Roma, which took over four years to
reach a depth of 3700 feet and which started with a 151 in.
diameter, can now be completed within four or five months
with a rotary drill, starting with a hole 16 inches in diameter.
With a rotary plant exactly like the one now in use at Roma,
the Review No. 1 well, Signal Hill, California, working three
shifts per day with five men on each shift, was drilled 4100 feet
in 33 days, and the well was put on a production basis 59
days after the starting of the building of the rig.
After the smash at the Government bore at Roma, Mr.
Arthur Moore was employed, and he made several attempts
to recover the lost tools and remove the obstruction. He then
attempted to side-track them or drill past them, but was not
successful. In fairness to Mr. Moore it should be said, how-
ever, that the task set him was an impossible one, and that
he proved its impossibility. In his attempt, however, to drill
past the obstruction he liberated again the gas flow, and to a
much greater extent than previously. The flow was over
20,000,000 cubic feet per day, and this enormous quantity
escaping through an eight-inch pipe could be heard five miles
away, and the smell of oil was quite pronounced. After some
difficulty the gas was harnessed, and, with a small absorption
plant, wav proven petroliferous, yielding slightly over one pint
of petrol per 1000 cubic feet of gas. This test was carried
out in 1920 by Government Analyst Henderson, Professor Steele
and Geologist Cameron.
Brokers to the Companies: —
A. KUSSMAN & CO.,
229 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE.
TELEGRAMS: “KUSSMAN,” BRISBANE.
Engagement of Experts
to act as
Field Superintendents
The Companies engaged the services of Messrs.
W. G. Allender and G. W. Le Grand for a period
of 2 years. Mr. Allender, who is to be Chief Field
Superintendent, has a long and successful oil- and
gas-drilling record on American and Canadian
fields, working for American and English com-
panies, part of which is set out hereunder: —
1900: Drilled Pioneer Well, 3300 feet deep, for
Largey 8r05.,, Bristoria, Pennsylvania. Well
came in making around 800 barrels daily. (1
barrel contains approximately 46 gallons.)
1201: Drilled the Jake Cunningham No. 1 Well for
The South Pennsylvania Oil Company. This
well came in around 2800 feet, making 1100
barrels per day. This was the discovery well
for the famous Cunningham Pool.
1911: Drilled First Oil and Gas Well near Crooks-
ville, Ohio, for the Columbus Street Railway
Company, bringing in a well at 3400 feet,
making 125 barrels per day.
1913: Was employed by the Nackaman Asphalt
and Oil Company of London, England, and
Edmonton, Canada, as driller.
1915-1916: Had charge Drilling Department for
Magnolia Petroleum Company, at Augusta,
Kansas, bringing in many wells.
1919-1924: Drilled by contract Desdemonia,
Texas, bringing in a 5000-barrel well at 2700
feet; also drilled other good wells on same
field for Humble Oil Company of Houston,
Texas.
OIL ENVIRONMENT
The property of Australian Roma Oil No. 1,
Ltd., as well as that of Australian Roma Oil
No. 2, Ltd., is surrounded by permits about to
be operated upon by other companies. Any
success attendant upon the efforts of any of
these latter companies must favorably affect
the value of shares of Australian Roma Oil.
TI IKREFORE. 810 TESTED, AXD WELL TESTED, Sjjr ■ 4)XE D OF THE COST OF A SIMILAR SIZED
AREA NEAR ROMA. ATN T l> WITH FAR MORE CEItTAIKTY OK ACHIEVING DEFINITE RESULTS.”
It is also seen in Dr. Jensen’s report on p.p. 67 that the following occurs:
‘'The sandstone shale strata around the plug form a perfect dome. In parts of Texas, New Mexico, oil is found
by boring near such plugs or domes formed in a similar manner.”-
PETROLIFEROUS GAS
Has Proved a Profitable Industrial Proposition.
I
i
i»V--
v n t v
iSSt-a
Scene at the jamons Signall Hill, Long Beach, California. This
picture shows the absorption towers of the Shell Co. of Cali-
fornia. It is a comparatively simple process to extract the petrol
from the petroliferous gas.
1 he following is an extract from Mr. Hender-
son’s report on the extraction of petrol from the
Roma bore gas, September, 1920:
“There are therefore at least 150 gallons
of petrol obtainable from every 1,000,000
cubic feet of gas.
“Twenty million cubic feet per day could
easily be obtained, giving a yield of 3000 gal-
lons of petrol per day.
“At, say, 3/- per gallon that would mean
a gross income of over £4OO per day, (Prices
ruling at this date.)
“The plant required is comparatively not
costly, while the labor costs are relatively very
low..
“It paid in America in 1915 to extract
petrol when it was present in the proportion of
125 gallons per 1,000,000 cubic feet, with
petrol costing about sd. per gallon,”
MANY MILLIONS OF DOLLARS ARE INVESTED IN
AMERICA IN THE EXTRACTION OF PETROL FROM
PETROLIFEROUS GAS.
Apart from the value of the petrol which may be
absorbed from the gas at Roma, its introduction for
industrial and domestic purposes should be consid-
ered, especially as the extraction of the petrol will
not destroy its lighting power. In 1913 the Midway
Gas Company built a 12-inch pipe line from Taft to
Los Angeles, a distance of 110 miles, and Los Angeles
to-day uses many millions of feet of natural gas per
day. With this cheap and efficient fuel many indus-
tries have been developed in that country which
probably would not have been located there without
a natural gas supply. '
The largest gas well on record was brought in in
America, being the Hay No. 7 well. This well, blow-
ing at an estimated rate of 19,000,000 cubic feet per
day, caught alight, and for several weeks all efforts
to extinguish the fire were in vain. Eventually, by
exploding a heavy charge of dynamite drawn over
the well by means of a cable, the flame was put out.
For nearly a year this well produced 30.000,000 cubic
feet per day, and since has been maintaining a flow
of half that amount per day.
At Roma 22 million cubic feet of gas per
day have been obtained from one bore alone.
A battery of gas tanks to hold approximately 1,000,000 cubic
feet of gas (California field). After the petrol is extracted,
the gas is still of great value for fuel and light. Millions of
feet of this gas are used annually in America.
20/- on Application and 20/- per month for 9 months secures 20 Shares
40/- on Application and 40/- per month for 9 months secures 40 Shares
100/- on Application and' 100/- per month for 9 months secures 100 Shares
Without
any further
Liability
SHARES ARE BEING ALLOTTED IN STRICT ORDER
OF DATE RECEIVED.
AUSTRALIAN ROMA OIL No. 2, LTD.
t Ventured under the Queensland Companies Acts 1863 to 1913, in the State of Queensland, Commonwealth of Australia.)
c ' o ‘ application for shares.
To the Secretary, AUSTRALIAN ROMA OIL Jr TD ‘ No. 2, Ltd.
DeaXVhS? 1 ajpl^r 2 V^n d wpr£f.... . • • ........ • .... .. Shares of 10/- each in the capital
of t^ n^x >V ]hereby d agi'ee l^to ls accept I the 6 samcT^or^such 6 smaller number of Shares as may be allotted to me, and I authorise you to
register me as the holdci of such Sl.aie.. being 1/- per Share on application, and I agree to pay 1/- per Share on allot-
ment 1 andto naTihe balance' in' calls 'as and 'when required, such calls not to exceed 1/- per share per month, and to be bound
Sv the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Oomnanv.
All payments to be by cheque marked Dated this
“Not Negotiable,” and to be made
payable to “Australian Roma Oil
No. 2, Ltd.,” and the words “or
Bearer” struck out. The Company
will not be responsible for the loss,
misapplication, or misappropriation
of any cheque which is not so
drawn. EXCHANGE MUST BE
ADDED TO COUNTRY CHEQUES. Signatuie
AW applications should be addressed to the Secretary, e/o A. KUSSMAX & CO.. 229 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Name (in full)
(State Mr., Mrs. or Miss)
day of
192
Address (in full)
Profession or Occupation
SHARES ARE
TEN SHILLINGS
EACH-
PAYABLE
ON APPLICATION
and 1 /- per month.
This means that investors will have AT
LEAST 9 months in which to pay the balance.
AUSTRALIAN ROMA OIL No. 1, LTD.
(Registered under the Queensland Companies Acts 1863 to 1913, in the State of Queensland, Commonwealth of Australia )
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Secretary, AUSTRALIAN ROMA OIL No. 1, LTD. .. 11l
c/o A. Kussman & Co., 229 Adelaide Street, Brisbane. JNo. 1. Ltu.
Dear Sir, — -I hereby apply for (state in words) ewoc . 7 . ~ ~ .
of the abovenamed Company upon the terms of the Company’s Prospectus /- e c m the capital
And I hereby agree to accept the same or such smaller number of Shares as may be allotted to me, and I authorise vou to
register me as the holder of such Shares. ’ c * uu LU
I enclose herewith £ •••••• being 1/- per Share on application, and I agree to pay 1/- per Share on allot-
ment and to pay the balance m calls as and when required, such calls not to exceed 1/- per share per month and to be bound
by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company. uounu
All payments to be by cheque marked Dated this ,i av inr>
“Not Negotiable,” and to be made y
payable to “Australian Roma Oil Name (in full)
No. 1, Ltd.,” and the words “or (State Mr., Mrs. or Miss)
Bearer” struck out. The Company
. will not be responsible for the loss,' Address (in full)
misapplication, or misappropriation .a
of any cheque which is not so Profession or Occupation
drawn. EXCHANGE MUST BE -• 4
ADDED TO COUNTRY CHEQUES. Signature
Ail applications should he addressed to the Secretary, c/o A. KUSSMAN & CO., 229 Adelaide St., Brisbane.


Mere words cannot express
their infinite superiority.
Army Club
lO for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked paper.
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
1
m
tfes-'
CORK
TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
Levity is the goal of wit.
Pedestrians suffer with that tyred feeling.
Why should a worm want to turn? It's
tlie same both ends.
Paris has evolved a square umbrella. Still,
we are satisfied to stick to Smith’s new round
one.
The woman who had buried four husbands
was probably right in referring to them as
her fourbears.
WITH ALL MODERN IMPROVEMENTS.
THE GHOST: “Alas! I am condemned to wander uneasily through
these rooms at night.”
NEW BOARDER: “Rotten luck, old man! Wait a minute and I’ll
switch on the bed-time stories for you.”
“Do you know that girl?”
“Yes; I knew her 40 years ago.”
The contracting parties in a recent West-
ralian manage were named Cleverly and
Ileaddey. This, however, is not unique;
we know quite a sensible person whose
name is Daft.
That old gag about girls being like high
explosives because, if they’re not handled
gently, they go off seems to apply now rather
to sea-cooks.
We are informed that the popular fur for
winter wear among Melbourne lady hunters
is smoked fox.
Mary loved the little bees;
She was their faithful friend;
Each day she sat upon their hive
But she got stung in the end!
CHANGE OF OCCUPATION.
Dear Bulletin, — I read that the casino
at Monte Carlo paid a dividend of 145 per-
cent. last year. I have therefore decided
to run a casino myself in Fitzroy, the
wealthy suburb of Melbourne; so you will
now have to look elsewhere for your supply
of shaving paper. —Yours regretfully, A.
Tryer.
* *
Woodrow Wilson, his biographer states,
sacrificed a long, silky moustache because
“all the young ladies seemed to set their
faces against it.” Most young men would
have bought hair-tonic.
“Which way are you going, my pretty
maid V”
“The other way, sir,” she said.
* *
Conjugal problems nowadays are not
solved. They are dissolved.
Chech spatters gay she wore,
From calf down to her heel,
And each, man looked once more —
A case of sox appeal!
Household Hint: To preserve the scent
of orange blossoms, keep them well away
from hot water.
Women’s fashions may change, but their
designs are the same.
The feature in modern frocks which
appeals most to economical young women is
that there is absolutely no waist. The thing
in modern frocks which appeals most to
young men, however, is the girl.
It is reported that tennis elbow, from
which several leading players are reported to
he suffering, is another form of writer’s
cramp.
He was an American stage artist who
went to the J.C.W. firm for a job after
coming here on spec. “I wanna see Mr.
Tait,” he said.
“Yes,” responded
the inquiry coun-
tin'. “which one?
E.J.? F.? J.?
N. ?” “Say,” said
the Yan k. “I
thought rabbits
were the pest in
this country.”
* *
We are informed
on reliable autho-
rity that a family
who bought a
house that was
haunted by the
ghost of a Scotch-
man got rid of the
spectre by putting
a collection-box in
the hall.
Commenting on
Dr. Voron o ff ’ s
theories of rejuv-
enation Professor
Osborne, of Mel-
bourne University,
said that grafting
was successful
only when it was
done from one of
a species to an-
other —monkey - to
monkey or man to
man. There is
reason to believe,
however, that
grafting has been
done fairly suc-
cessfully from con-
tractors to civic officials.
A soft drink turneth away friends.’
Mary had a little lamb,
And daily you would find her
Heading for school , her woolly pet
Tagging along behind her.
But Mary leads no lambkins now;
She finds it. less exhaustin',
And more congenial by far ,
To drive a baby Austin.
A PROTEST.
Our Patricia's now joined a Hush-Walkers’
Club ;
She's borrowed a ruck-sack and stumped up
the sub.
Each Sabbath sees Pat getting up in the
dark
And abroad just a little ahead of the lark
With six hard-boiled eggs and a thermos of
tea ,
Two loaves and some fags and —what else
there may be
/ haven’t as yet been invited to see.
Some girls wear shorts of the masculine sort,
lint our Put is a lady as well as a sport,
And while she don't jib at a skirt that is
scant
For tramping she feels that it’s not elegant
To show too much leg. So with silk thread
and braid
A pair of voluminous bloomers she’s made.
Yes, bloomers I said —let a spade be a spade.
They puff out like balloons, they droop over
her calves,
Though they are, they don't prove that
they’re slightly in halves.
And if freedom’s the notion I think they’re
absurd
(Isn’t woman a wholly irrational bird?).
But 1 s’pose that the novelty spices the
blunder —-
'Wearing things over that ought to be wider:
But what would she wear to go fishing—l
wonder?
N.S.W.
I LYRAM.
THE FAITHFULL WHAIL.
One grey Dawn in the Indian Osean a
Head might have been Seen swiming in the
Wreck-strewn Water. The Pallacial Liner
had Completely Disapeared.
It seemed to our Hero., for it was indeed
he, that lie had been Swiming for hours.
Suddenly he gave a Shout of Joy; the next
Minute he was Clambring up the Slippery
side of What he had touched.
As he lay Exhorsted, he heard a heebie
Hale from' the water, and, Rising, saw
two Heads struggling in the Waves. lie
had seized a Rope from some of the \\ rcck-
idge which he threw to the Drowning Men.
The First he Pulled up lie recognised as
one of the Sailors; when he saw the Other,
he almost let him fall Back. It was the
Face and Hands of the Bruttal Captain.
THE WAY IT HAPPENED.
V ISITOR: “How did your poor husband conic to lose his leg?"
WIFE: “He got run over by one of these big subtractors."
Left Penniless, Our Hero, Rex Rightone,
had Stowawayed aboard the vessel, but had
been Pound and Made to Work. Hie
Captain, a Nateherally cruel Man, Hated
him; only just before the Vessel Sank, he
had Ordered him Another Flogging.
And yet Rex Saved him!
By and by the Light began to get
Stronger.
•‘Good Heavens!” cried the Captain, rous-
ing from a Stewpour, ‘'we have Climbed
oil the Back of a Sleeping Wliail. When it
I lives we will Perish.”
“Not so,” said Our Hero, who Had been
lassooing planks and hauling them lip. “See
this Boat Hook! If the Wliail tries to
Dive, we will Prod him Underneath with it.
That will make him keep to the Top.”
No sooner had he spoken than his Idea
was Put to the Test. The Wliail tried to
Dive, but, directly it felt the Sharp Stab
underneath, it Desistered. It tried Again
Several Times, with the Same Results, and
then it Tried No More.
“Bravo!” cried the Captain. “You Have
Saved Our Lives if we Keep afloat till
a ship Sites Us. I Hope you will forgive me.”
“There is No Time for Quarilling now, ’
said Our Hero, Nobly. “W T e must Work
to save Ourselves.”
The Boy who had been Downtrodden and
Flogged now took Command, and made them
tic planks together to form a Safe Platform
on the Wliail',s Back. On this they Stacked
the Provisions and Kegs of Water from
tlie 'Wreck. But one Parcel he slipped
Secretly into his pocket.
The platform gave them Room to sit and
sleep, too. But it took Etternell Villi
gence to keep the W r hail from diving.
“I have an Idea!” cried Our Hero. “If
we can, in This Way, keep the IVliail from
going Down, we can also make another
Code to drive the Wliail Where we Want, by
jabbing its Flarix!”
No sooner Said than Done; and they
Set the Coarse for the last Land they had
Seen.
On the third day a Clowd No Bigger
than a Man’s Hand appeared on the Hor-
rison. They Knew only Too Well that that
is how Hurrycains always begin in the
Indian Osean, and tried to drive their Queer
Craft with Greater Speed. To their Great
Joy they saw Land Loom Ahead of them.
But Suddenly the Huricane Broke. It
was terrific. The Whail was swept Help-
lessly forward and With a jarring thud it
grounded on the Rocks. Great Waves swept
over them gnocking their Raft to pieces.
Had it not been for Our Hero they would
never have Scaled that Beatling Cliff. He
climbed the top with a Rope by which the
others came afterwards.
The tall Palms that grew at the Crossed
were twisted over almost flat" by the Gale.
Another Idea Struck Rex, and he called
on the Others to help him tie down the top
of one of the palms.
“Look here, feller me lad,” snarled the
Captain, “It’s time for you to Remember
that I'm the Captain and you’re only the
Cabin boy.”
For answer Rex produced the Mysterious
Parcel he had slipped in his pocket—a re-
volver.
“I was Skipper on the Whail, and I will
be Skipper here,” he said, quietly, for lie
was Moddest and hated to Boast, “because
I have the Most Abilerty to Command. Any-
body have Any Objection?”
“Bedad, sor, you are the bhouy to save
us,” said Pat the sailor. Seeing liimselt
Outnumbered, the Captain submitted with
a Smothered Curse.
Suddenly the gale seized, and all the other
palms became
strait again but
the one they had
tied down.
* *
“How are we to
Rescue them ? It
it a m a s i n g how
they Got Ashore
Alive!”
So spoke Lady
M a ud e De FOll-
- a beutiful
girl, on the Deck
of a Steamer that
had been Attrac-
tered by the Dis-
tress Signles.
“Look!” cried
her companion.
Rex had seated
himself on the top
of the Roped Palm
and the Ot li ers
were Choping at
the Ropes. Next
Moment the Palm
Sprang in the Air
Again and, As if
Flung from a Oat-
terpult, as Indeed
he Was, Our Her >
swung through tin;
Air in a Graceful
Curve, the Rope he
held in his hand
trailing after him. It seemed hours to the
Thrilled Spectators; but in less than two
minutes, breaking his fall by Seizing a bit
of Rigging, Rex dropped Lightly to the Deck.
He hardly Nottised how the Captain and
Pat Follcred on the rope ; his eyes were All
for the Beutiful girl.
“Rex!” she cried, “What brings you Here?
Why did you Run Away?”
“I was Poor after my Father Died. They
Could not find the Money.”
“But they have since Found the Missing
Will,” she told him.
“Besides,” said the scoundrelly Captain’s
voice beside them, full of Pennertence, “my
ship belonged to Your Father, but I stole
it. Forgive me.”
“It is lost now,” said Our Hero.
“Yes,” he admitted, “but I Insured it for
Twice its Value.”
“At last!” cried Our Hero, as he foldered
the Blushing Lady Maude to his Bressed,
“With this Money I can Again take my
Place in the World as an Ilonnerable Man !”
* * * *
In the Magnifercent grounds of Tumble-
down Castle there is a Big Pond, filled with
THE SUPERIOR SEX.
SHE ( pessimistically ): “Oh, all men are
liars!”
HE: “Yes, but women are more successful.”
Sea Water, in which a Huge Whail enjoys
its Happy Life. It was not killed on the
Rocks, but Waited Swiming round the Island
for its Friend, Rex.
There were 24 children, who all grew up
to be Ilei’oes, except in the Case of Some,
who turned out to be Herowines.
HAMER, JUNIOR.


THERE ARE MANY WAYS OF GETTING AT WHISKY!
For Some
Time past
The most
Usual method
HAS BEEN TO
TAKE AN
IMPL E M ENT
KNOWN AS
THE toRKSCRFW
I nsERT
this. -
- after
SEVERAL
FAUX PAS
- Into
the cork f
•AND THEN CrO THROUGH A
PE6IR-ED RESULT ACHIEVED
STRofi-d-LE FOR. MASTERY . B£Foß.£ ThE
USUALLY
WITH A
SICKEN! N -
JOLT !
Or -
the cork
CAN BE
PUSHED
RJG-HT
INTO THE
Bottle -
AN EVIE
METHOD .
Another
WAY IS TO
KNOCK THt
NECK OFF
The bottle
the less
Said about
This the
better
In any CASE. BY
THE TINE THE SPIRIT
\S AVAILABLE - ,
Your mood is
Such that
You CANNOT
HOPE TO
Enjoy it
PR.OPfcR.LY
Now with
the WHITE HORSE
AIRTIGHT
Screw cap i
You have mo \
Such trouble -
You just unscrew
IT and Pouß out
the BEST %
WHISKY in
THE WORLD ,
12>
EUREKA!
Copies, in two colors, of above Bateman cartoon may be obtained gratis on
application to Dalgety and Company, Ltd., Sydney, sole agents in N.S.W.
for WHITE HORSE Scotch Whishj.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —Janies Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.; F. E.
Loxton, Esq.
Csf.net I . a t. Manaoku — M. Ci. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE .. BUT SHANE
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory). Melbourne, Sydney, and
97 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
ilirou" h the leading Ibinking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Hank'’offers the fnlfest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —»
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Cuiwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
x;" ' V
-/ x.
/X......
SfcX* IB : -"XTix.
.-X-xXv
I
XT '&&&&&
v-~X
\
■ X
-i V,.
y
UE) x
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Poverty
Point
“Sebrof”: The attraction of a circus at
Condobolin (N.S.W.) included a corpulent
tattooed man, whose tummy, in his slim
days, had been decorated with _an eagle
with wings slightly distended. His favorite
stunt, and one that never failed to draw the
crowd, was to draw in and let out to its
full extent his diaphragm five or six times
in succession, thus rendering an animated
picture of the flight of an eagle.
“Cine Ma”: Picture fans are so used to
seeing the celluloid wraiths of Hollywood
walk like nothing on earth across the screen
that when a live specimen, like Pauline
Frederick, comes here and demonstrates that
she can walk like an ordinary human being,
they are agreeably surprised. The discre-
pancy is easily explained. The average
1< ngth of a programme is 15,000 feet, and
nothing short of that would be tolerated by
the consistent picture-goer. The camera is
operated at the rate of 60 feet of film to the
minute. If it was projected at the same
pace not more than 7600 feet could be
worked off in an evening, if intervals are
allowed for. So. until audiences demand a
change, lovers will continue to dart across
the street at 10 m.p.h.
“Wood’s Green” (Pond.) : Oscar Asdic
can do nothing right these days; there was
a time when the London stage knew him as
one who could do nothing wrong. “Who’s
Who,” which he lately produced at the
Vaudeville, was an old-fashioned farce; one
wonders how an artist of such gifts and
experience could have associated himself with
such a piece. Four nights saw the end of it.
Oscar has now been added to the cast of the
new production “Marjolaine,” a musical ver-
sion of “Pomander Walk” which is coming
to the West End after a trial run at Black-
pool. Ethel Hook is also in the cast.
“Uramao” : He pars, about Australians in
Moviedom ; Maoriland is also well represented.
Jack Glendower, a Wairarapa youth, sup-
ported Doris Keene in “Romance,” and
starred in “The Czarina.” Shayle Gardner,
of Auckland, is in the British film “Tommy
Atkins” as Mason. The man who drove the
chariot —the feature of the big picture “Ben
Hut” —is a Gisborne boy named Dodds.
Winter Hall is another with an established
name, and Rupert Julian, one of the fore-
most directors in Moviedom. was born in
M.L. A years ago the Paramount con-
cern was bossed by a Maorilander named
Eyton, a native of Auckland.
“(lauboy": One of the most active troupes
in Australia is the band of 16 singers and
dancers led by Claude Carter, of Melbourne.
The ages of the band range from seven up-
wards. Cars collect them from their homes,
run them to Ballarat or Geelong, where they
do their stuff to the .joy of the provincials
and the time-keeping of the local orch-
estras. After the show the cars tote them
back and drop them on their mothers' door-
steps again; and the tired infants are
allowed, one hopes, to ■ sleep the next day
through. A star member of the crowd is
Little Isabel, who was kidnapped by a show-
man some years ago and taken as far as
Singapore before her mother found her.
There is not much money in the enterprise,
but there's plenty of fun.
“Craiser": While grand opera has been
raging at unpopular prices elsewhere, that
fme conductor Fritz Hart and his symphony
orchestra have been providing music just as
good and often better on Saturday nights at
the Town Hall. Melbourne, at prices usually
only demanded by suburban picture-theatres.
The results have been that his shows have
been packed—and it takes a good deal ot
audience to fill the new Town Hall. Hopes
have been engendered that this will lead to
the permanent orchestra, but there is a fly
in the ointment. At present rates takings
don’t cover expenses, and the movement gets
no for’arder. A slight advance oil quoted
prices would scarcely be noticed, judging by
present enthusiasm.
“Combine” : British Dominions Films, Ltd.,
was recently floated in Melbourne with a nomi-
nal capital of £250,000, of which £55,000 has
been called up and subscribed by the direc-
tors and tlieir connections. The moving
spirit told an interviewer that when in
England lately he was astonished at the high
quality of the films now being produced there,
and by the fact that there was the greatest
difficulty in marketing them, even in their
own country, owing to the grip of the Ameri-
can interests. The co., while doing what it
can for local producers, will confine itself
chiefly to the marketing of British films in
Australia and Maoriland.
‘■('resar’s Ghost:”: Ben Fuller has a flair
for doing the surprisingly nice thing occa-
sionally ; it prompted him to look up Fanny
Wiseman in Melbourne the other day. taking
along with him little Shirley Beveridge, the
three-year-old tot appearing in “Norma” as
one of the children of the priestess. Ben
had remembered that Fanny Wiseman played
the part 72 years ago, and thought she would
like to see her successor.
“I. Phelps”: The notion currently ped-
dled by “Cauboy” (B. 0/6/’2B) that the
Fuller-Gonsalez opera season in Melbourne
owed what success it derived to the support
of Italians is one of the mouldiest illusions
of a sad and credulous age. There is not
a large cultivated Italian population in the
southern metropolis, and the quantity in-
AT THE SYDNEY ROYAL.
Frank Bradley, the Adelaide actor, who has
strutted many oversea stages, and Leon
Gordon, actor-playwright, who is star-
ring in his own and other plays.
terested in the music of its compatriots
would not cough up enough to keep one of
the innumerable Gonsalez brothers in spa-
ghetti. Dreadful as the truth may be to
“Cauboy,” I here inform him that the
great majority of the seats at the Fuller
opera shows were bought by music-loving
Australians.
“Shep”: Mention of operatic rights (B.
23/5/’2B) i-ecalls that when the “Mikado”
first boomed in 18S5, two American mana-
gers bargained for the production rights in
Now York, and the unlucky applicant, with
a pirated copy of the piece, immediately
formed a company in that city with the
idea of getting in first. D’Oyly Carte,
manager for Gilbert and Sullivan, counter-
attacked by forming in London a second
complete “Mikado” company, the members
believing they were to tour the British Isles.
When well trained, passages were booked for
America under fictjtious names, and with the
greatest secrecy complete scenery and cos-
tumes were shipped by the same steamer.
New York first heard of them when the
“Mikado” was announced to open on Fifth-
avenue almost immediately after then-
arrival. The most surprised of all were the
pirates, who were still rehearsing and buying
up costumes when the news came.
Fritz Hart, whose Australian opera,
“Deirdre,” will ruffle it with the Italians
at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, on Fri-
day (June 22).
“Spokeshave” : Tlio Gonsalez people estab-
lished one precedent for grand opera. A
chorus in the first act of their Melbourne
performance of “Ernani” was so rapturously
applauded that the hero and heroine post-
poned their passionate embrace, and the item
was repeated.
“Cauboy”: Considering the close proxi-
mity of Little Bourke-street to the head-
quarters of the Firm, it lias always sur-
prised me that Williamson’s theatrical
painters, in rendering Celestial scenes, strive
after the utmost fidelity in other details, but
where the Chinese script is concerned think
anything will do. In “Turandot” things
obviously intended to be Chinese characters
are painted all over the palace entrances
and pni-fengs. If they looked remotely like
Chinese characters all would be well, but
they don’t. They resemble a Hansard re-
porter’s four-in-the-morning draft of AN . M.
Hughes’s latest pronunciamento on Italian
immigration. Any Celestial cabinetmaker
could have enlightened the Colemans on the
point.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Hollywood is feeling the
growing opposition of countries it has been
exploiting; the monstrous salaries of screen
stars have been well cut, and slices are
being taken off the screws of directors and
others. Practically the whole world is now
protecting itself against that exploitation.
Australia, with its mild suggestion of a
quota of local films, is the least severe in its
methods. Britain goes a few and Italy many
better. Germany insists upon an equal ex-
change of films, and has built up a fine pic-
ture industry as a result.
“Hamfat": James Lindsay, of the Mar-
garet Bannerman eo., who became ill in the
last fortnight of the Melbourne season ami
died a few days later, was an old friend of
Australian audiences. He came from San
Francisco in 1904 to appear with Nellie
Stewart and remained for six years, the
last four of them with Meynell and Gunn.
He was one of the numerous recruits the
stage has made from the army; he ceased
being a subaltern to take the part of Sir
George Orreyd in “The Second Mrs. Tan-
queray.”
“M.S.”: After having been stunned by the
splendor and extravagance of “Turandot,”
one begins to wonder whether Puccini’s post-
humous attempt to out-Aida Verdi will have
a long life in the grand-opera repertoire.
One has seen many pantos, nearly as lux-
urious come and go, and for the musical part
Puccini seems not to he in his natural ele-
ment. He has returned to the weird, fan-
tastic atmosphere of his very first opera,
“Lo Villi, 7 ' now apparently forgotten, ai
only one point in “Turandot” does one r< ; < r o S'
nise the Puccini of “Bolieme” and Butter-
fly”—where the slave-girl Liu sacrifices her-
self for her master, whom she secretly
adores. Here the mingled realism and pathos
of the situation got the better of the octo-
genarian composer’s plan; he forgot the grey
Oriental grotesquerie of his theftie and
dipped his pen in the red ink of Sincerity.
Following the precedent set at La Scala,
the orchestra and players, at the performaiice
„t Melbourne His Majesty’s, paused at this
place and the audience rose—some a trifle
bewildered as to why vice-royalty was arriv-
ing so late.
“Craiser”: How is it that Australia has
no theatrical trade journal of the prestige
and independence of New York's Variety i
This huge weekly criticises every new pic-
ture, highbrow drama, jazz show, mystery
play and even vaudeville turn, not with one
eye on its advertising columns, but with the
cool and often brutal frankness of a catholic
tradesman appraising the marketability or
otherwise of each line of goods. The result
is that its racy verdict is a boon to the
producer. We have nothing like it here.
The Australian Musical News, of Mel-
bourne, about the most authoritative, is one
long paian of praise of everything and every-
body. The various little rags which lead
a precarious existence battening on the film
and drama world are not so well written, but
just as useless as guides to the entr'eprencur
desirous of getting a payable show together.
The Bulletin is frank enough; its angle,
however, is naturally not that of the man
behind the footlights, but of a critic in
front.
“A.G.M.” (Loud.) : Marie Burke gets a
big chance in the brilliant new Drury-lane
piece “Show Boat.” Fine appearance, fine
voice, fine acting have all had generous
recognition from the critics, and the first-
night audience gave her one of the great
ovations of the evening for her singing of
“I Can’t Help Loving That Man.” Paul
Bobeson, the negro actor who first came to
London to play the name part in “The
Emperor Jones,” sings “Old Man River” in
a manner that created an immense impres-
sion. He is a big man, physically and intel-
lectually. Before taking to the stage he
practised as a barrister, and recently he
toured Great Britain as a star concert singer,
the voice being a rich bass.
“Hamfat”: That good actress Billie Lock-
wood is not going to England, after all.
The Williamson management beckoned to
her when her feet were almost on the gang-
way, a year’s contract and an undertaking
that she was to be allotted no maids’ parts
being the bait that kept her in Australia.
The management undertook also to get back
her passage-money.
“Dan Walk”: Well known here for his
work in “The Lady of the Rose,” Howett
Worster received very favorable notices from
the London critics after the first night of
“Show Boat.” The piece, which has a chorus
of 50 white and 50 negro songsters, is an
adaptation of Edna Berber's impressive
novel.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Alexander Marsh, who
has lifted the standard of the Wilkie co.
remarkably, began with Minnie Palmer, was
with Osmond Tearle, and has frequently run
his own provincial companies in England.
He was associated with Wilkie in 1906 and
1907 before that staunch Shakspearean set
out on the tour that landed him in Aus-
tralia. Marsh, though not exactly a young
man when the war broke out, still managed
an appearance in France.
“Schnorrer” : This year Britain is to have
a Jewish music festival. The idea has been
promoted by the London Jewish Chronicle,
about the most representative and wealthy
Jewish paper in the world. Sir Landon
Ronald, one of the vice-presidents, reckons
upon a very fine turn-out, but lie has men-
tioned that, while there is a plethora of
Jewish instrumentalists and vocalists, the
race has produced very few outstanding com-
posers.
“Santander”: Eugene O’Neill’s extraordi-
nary nine-acter, “Strange Interlude, last
month reached its 15th week at the Golden
Theatre, New York, with such a continuous
show of interest on the part of the popu-
lace that it is predicted to survive New
York’s summer. The price of a good seat
at the Golden is four dollars forty cents, and
the takings up to now have averaged 16,000
dollars a week; so America’s foremost artist
in the theatre is now able to give caviare to
the cat on holiday occasions.
“S.T.S.”: The Fullers have bought the
Majestic Theatre, Adelaide, from the Tolley
family. It is a venerable site, having started as
White’s, and later Garner’s, “rooms.” Then
for years it was Tommy Hudson’s Bijou, and
afterwards Harry Rickards’s Tivoli. Hugh
Mclntosh came in, but preferred a move
to the new Prince of Wales, and Bert Len-
non, backed by the two Fullers, took a lease
and built the Majestic. The three of them
have now acquired the freehold.
THE CLAQUER’S COMPLAINT.
[For Thk Bulletin.]
Before the world went crazy
About the flicksome show
My life was never lazy.
For nightly I would go
In search of entertainment
With some potential gain meant
To aid in my sustainment
And mitigate my woe.
High in the gallery’s reaches
My function was to wait
While corybantic peaches
Would posture and gyrate
Until the funny “break-up'’
Appeared in comic make-up,
When I would earn a stray cup
By setting cheers in spate.
Or sometimes, with refinement
Of sly diablerie,
llis words a cue of mine meant
To launch a jeu d’esprit
By way of interjection—
With proper circumspection
To obviate detection
Of preconcerted glee.
But at the movie pictures
Is no demand at all
For mirth-provoking strictures
Or loud applauding bawl :
Rome folk may like these dumb turns,
But I esteem them bum turns
As joyless as the glum urns
In some sepulchral hall.
Times change. Ehen futjacen!
The happy days of yore
When sundry mugs and glasses
Would recompense my roar
Of cordial approbation
At apt gesticulation
Or deft improvisation—
We ne'er shall see them more!
N.S.W.
ADAM TOSSPOT.


* s w- <
W^
>:\ •
X '.ik'r
m
>s
s»*».
*
:- r-
m
zmEm
Hill
k'M;A:_
f: •’.'. t-
-1
raws
i
a«
Ml:si a
rsias
;if :* ."
lliiWil
:yhs?‘-h'
$1
av -••:
m
ft, Si 5 i f 5
ST:
: Vft SX V ft-'-M
tsMMiS
a* : .
Sill!: II
imm? i-
§&
W
*4l®s*
Lt Wf
;:*&&& w#M jK&:$ 2*
Ncaai
a
";’jj
J..-H
rs<«
gpss
Sv
y
m
w>>2sS
■pWl
s
sm
'V!
* ■
IB
si
'•? >p.7 v
Wmm
S<s
j^&llapfnv
Mfc
.
8£«
k
a
11
:- r :-,'
v?<C
•; "■ ' >!>
*>««
~—' *3
3P
* fV
i&A:
T>f
'CAa
&£w r 4i*v
9fS
it
I
*rt»
>&-.
•■sfr
w
-m : yy
•;■ \,f's' •■>*
•a h x .
XV''
; >f k#^:.r
f I 1:
j
'and no loi'qqei' than
a set of Books
y
?&CI =S r
Six and Seven Valve
One Dial Atwater
Kent Receivers,
£25/10/- to
£37/10/-, without
valves or equipment.
Radio speakers,
£3/15/-, £4/10/-
and £B/15/-. (New
Model E.) Complete
outfits from
£43/10/-, also
Console and Writ-
ing-desk models.
Illustrated is the
model 35 Aticater
Kent Receiver with
model E Radio
Speaker.
TNOIVdT
Think of it... a set so simple that its
one dial quickly brings in station after
station with certainty and precision.. .a
set so powerful that it easily operates
one or more Radio Speakers..a set so
perfectly controlled that it reproduces
every voice, and instrument, with un-
erring fidelity of tone ! An Atwater
Kent Radio Receiver is all this and
more. Remarkably compact in con-
struction its delightfully proportioned
cabinet can be placed anywhere . .on a
side table, writing desk or window sill.
It is even smaller than a dozen books!
Call at your nearest Atwater Kent deal-
er’s...and hear these different sets. They
will revolutionise your idea of radio.
Inserted by the Atwater Kent Manufacturing Co. of Philadel-
phia, Pa., U.S.A. Wholesale Distributors for Australia; Messrs. jl
A. G. HEALING, LTD. Dealers established everywhere.
■ * (A) a'
k
r
.Al aT>
%
% -C)
/'
•A'dV' 4<
•^ J V . '
/ <§>%* .•• .-• ••• ..*
v „(r . • a
V > A® a® , A
v/ •• ••


Smith.
TO FLV r THL
T ASM AkL
in
111
rWSSSi^jtw®
*»*»»*.;
are the
(sonc{s
WOOLLEN ATHLETIC SINGLETS
<**- PURE WOOL FANCY HALF HOSE
9fhat will accompany 6 aplUingsforcL Smith
on his flight to Hm.lccdanch Q
of aLoIL JUj./LdiJiiA' fZ jAjtanj
, 3 jtfcuAj
With these Garments Australia’s Air Hero will be
protected against Chill and Cold in his effort to bring
still greater honor to Australia.
- • "\
\=-
mm
SYDNEY
Tasmania e:
SYDNEY TO
ESTIMATED Fv/INQ TIME 14 '/% HOUKS
WELLINGTON
fsonds s
cAthletic
Singlets
.■•'in,
r, u Sands \
fancy Plaku
Half Hos&
nv


ELEY & KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
These are the
advantages
of
AlEßritish
Cartridges
The Keenest
Sportsmen and the
world’s leading
shots
Use Only
ELEY &
KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES.
All-British
from Gap
to Turnover
Obtainable at
all Gunsmiths
and Dealers
throughout
Australasia.
A GOOD Con
DESERVES
A GOOD CAfUniDGE
fds
H'UPMANN&COS
HAVANA CIGARS
IN THE FOLLOWING SIZES:—
Half Corona, £3/15/- per 100.
Samples 9d. each.
Threequarter Corona, £4/15/- per 100.
Samples 1/- each.
Full Corona, £7/10/- per 100.
Samples 1/6 each.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
1
■/"■zMa
cy; '■
w
m
rA'AMASgSI?*
352 GEORGE S T SYDNEY
♦ AND BRANCHES ♦
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nommal Capital £lOO,OOO Directors:
Issued Capital . 40 l«i John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
Paid-un l “ W. G. Woo tiger, Esq.; S. J. Goulstou, Egq. j
raid-up Capital .. ; 30,234 R. G. H. Joseland, Esq.
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax.
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
L. G. FUSSELL, General Manager.
If any illustration in THE BLJLLti, 1 IN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
THE WATCH
THATNEVER
TELLS A LIE.
3
CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID —32 per cent. N»2O.
POWDERED 98 per cent. NaOH.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
CARBON TETRA CHLORIDE.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
CONCENTRATED SOLDER-
ING AND TINNING FLUXES
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
In 100, 150 and 20001 b. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE.
MANUFACTURED BA
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE. VICTORIA.
The Struggle for a Crust.
“AdeL.”: Enter the stores in either of
the little towns in the Gulf country and you
will see rows upon rows of tinned stuff,
chiefly fish, crabs and oysters, all imported.
Yet the Gulf teems with edible fish, natural
oyster beds abound, and to the mangrove
swamps with each tide come armies of crabs.
Where is the need for importations?
“B-Gar”: Why not an export trade in
crocodile skins? From Townsville to the
Far North there are plenty of these saurians,
and they are easily trapped. The hides
salted and treated could be shipped in a dry
state, and with the present price of leather
goods the business should be a payable one.
As sharks are just as plentiful up north,
a Marine By-products Co. could deal with
both industries.
Plaster, oils and sundries :
Good as many of them are, the virtues of Miss L.
Pentland’s oils at the New Gallery, Melbourne, are
overshadowed by the charm of Miss N. Lyle’s little
sculptures. This lady shows a mere half-dozen tiny
nudes, but they contain elements of beauty and
evidence of delicate perception out of all propor-
tion to their size. Present commentator hasn’t seen
feminine flesh more admirably rendered for a long
time; even the somewhat bilious green some of the
figures have been painted fails to destroy the good
tonal handling of the surfaces underneath.
W. M. Whitney sends water-colors from Sydney
to the Athen<eum. An easily-satisfied soul might find
pleasure in his pictorial outlook h the critical mind
weren’t frequently smacked in the eye by his faults
of hasty observation.
“Ivnib”: Passing the old Herald office,
Flinders-street, Melbourne, now being demo-
lished to make room for a theatre, I recalled
an incident of the reporters’ room 20-odd
years ago. Dick Jordan, afterwards on the
Ballarat Post, was writing the puff notices
of theatres for the week, and seemed to be
getting gravelled for phrases. He had used
up all his commendatory and cautious terms,
and was looking up to the ceiling for in-
spiration, when one of the idle chaps at
the table began to read out a quarter col.
he had found about worn-out phrases
that should be given, a rest. “For the
love of Mike, lend’s that,” said Jordan;
“I'm getting bankrupt,” and, seizing the
paper, he polished off his theatrical notices
with the help of the ready-mades.’
BY INSTALMENTS.
“Beryl's admirers are giving her a hamper for Christmas."
“’M-yes. I noticed she got the bird to-night.”
“Huffin-Guffin”: Thousands will heave a
sigh of regret at the closing of Cole’s Book
Arcade in Melbourne. It was an institution,
a library, a museum, a place of rest—
anything but a place of business to many
who visited it. It is over 40 years since I
first saw Cole’s. Not a year since has
passed, that I have not been to it, though
living in the country most of the time; yet I
do not suppose I have spent £5 there in the
aggregate. F. ,T. Dodd, until lately in busi-
ness as bookseller at Hamilton ' (Vic.) for
nearly 40 years, claims to have sold the first
book out of the Arcade when it opened on
Cup Day, ISS3.
“L.H.H.”; Shearers are supposed to be
more determined sticklers than most for the
good old principle of “one man one job.”
To a South-West Q. shed the other day came
14 of them, with an equal number of shed-
hands. Seven of the shearers drove their
own cars, in which they brought along their
less fortunate comrades, collecting a £2 fare
in each case. After the cut-out they de-
parted with the same passengers. Back on
the line, 80 miles away, two hire-car pro-
prietors, both married men who depend
entirely on this sort of work, sat wondering
w b<m. the next fare would happen along.
“Nikko”: Some of these time-payment
salesmen are the limit. A Melbourne woman,
who had no immediate prospect of acquir-
ing a player piano, happened when in a
music store to make a few inquiries about
an instrument, and after much pressure ad-
mitted that it was the ambition of her life
to possess one. The obliging agent took
her address,, “just in case,” lie said, and
the prospective customer went homewards,
lhat same afternoon, attracted by a com-
motion in the street, she looked out and saw
what appeared to be a church organ on a
lorry, drawn by four enormous Clydesdales
and accompanied by eight hefty men.
Whether it was the Clydesdales or the
sternly-purposed bodyguard that hypnotised
her she does not know to this day, but in
half an hour the instrument was installed
in her dining-room, and she had signed a
time-payment form for 255. per week on a
total cost of nearly £3OO. After two years’
struggling, during which time she went
without new clothes and existed with a
minimum of food, she had perforce to let
the payments lapse, whereupon the eight
men and the four Clydesdales re-appeared
and removed the incubus. Having sustained
a loss of well over a hundred pounds she
is now making an effort to recuperate, while
the player piano, after being “done-up” and
re-sold as a new instrument, is doubtless
giving an encore in another suburban home.
“T.R.”: The handwriting of John W.
Hackett, late owner of the West Aus-
tralian, was the worst / ever saw. When
in ’93 I applied for the position of copy-
holder, Hackett said, “Can you read bad writ-
ing?” I thought I could. “Then read this,”
which he blotted. After guessing a con phi
of words the job was mine. He told me that
Gibney (30 years his foreman printer) was
the only living person who could read his
writing, and that important letters had been
returned from London for translation, which
himself had been unable to accomplish with-
out Gibney’s help.
“A Jack”: The miners' union at Broken
Hill, which owns Barrier Daily Truth,
frequently publishes instructions to members
in Yugo-Slav, Maltese and Italian, but
the Barrier Miner has stuck to plain Eng-
lish. It made a slight departure recently,
however, a short message of sympathy in a
comment being translated into Italian.
Although Inspector Newling (recently sta-
tioned at the Ilill) established language classes
for foreigners, and over 40 of them seized the
opportunity of learning good English, the
Education Department foolishly put its foot
down, and they broke up. The W.E.A. is
now trying to re-establish them.
“Copy Boy” : The versatile Frank Russell,
of the Melbourne Herald, whose confi-
dence is never shattered by the most appal-
ling literary tasks, was at latest dranni-
tising the suppressed film
“Dawn,” with the intention
of giving Nurse Cavell an
exit that would not be dan-
gerous to our international
relations. At the same time
the busy journalist is contem-
plating a comedy for Mar-
garet Bannerman, for which
Will Dyson is to design some
of the settings.
“El Verdugo”: Retiring
the other day from daily'
newspaper work, almost
exactly 21 years after I
began it, I could not help
casting an eye over the
changes in literary staff con-
ditions during that time.
When I began as a junior
cadet on the old Brisbane
Daily Mail, 1 worked the
whole of the 365 days of my
first year, the day beginning
with the reporting of the
markets at 9 a.m. (except on
Sunday, when it began with
a church service at 11 a.m.)
and ending regularly with
night police rounds in time
to catch the 11.20 p.m. train.
The staff consisted of a chief
and sub-editor (£5 ss. per
week each) ; two senior re-
porters at £3 10s. and £3 re-
spectively ; Jimmy Webster,
now a leading light in th
A.J.A. (£2 10s.) ; lady
editor (£3) ; three juniors
(£4 between the three) and
myself 15s; also there was
a sporting man who drew £4.
Several of that staff—three
I know of personally—have
lived to see the day when
they draw in salary alone a
sum equal to the combined
salaries of the Mail staff of
1907, leaving out the chief
and sub-editor; and they’re
not editors, either.
Two Seas ’: A few years ago a consider-
ate P.M.G. decided to issue postal-notes for
ss. 6d. —the exact sum required for a ticket
iii a lottery banned by his department! Now
his heart is touched by the risk bis cus-
tomers run by sending open postal-notes
through the post, and it is decreed that in
future uo p.n. will be issued without the
name ot the office and person where and to
whom it is payable. The consequence i 3
that instead of passing the p.n. I expect to
get tor this par. on to a storekeeper I shall
have to cash it and buy another. And as
ii j 5?, ca postal-note department will only
hold three persons at a time I will have to
wait outside in the rain whilst the unhandy
blokes are filling up their forms inside. A
Minister who is so solicitous for the welfare
we Pub ic oughtn’t to overlook little
things like these.
“Porosus”: The vogue for fancy leathers
for shoe and bag making is on the increase,
and the. attention of many North Queens-
landers is being turned to the possibilities of
the crocodile skin trade, in which India and
America at present hold a practical monopoly.
It is proposed to forward a trial shipment of
properly-prepared skins—they must be
opened down the side, and not up the bellv
as usual m skinning—to the Queensland
Agent-General, with a request that he try
to place them with the leading buyers. A
sporadic trade is being done already with
Australian buyers, but if London markets
nna V fif at^ S a aCI ; ory a com P an y is to be formed
and the industry properly organised. Raw
material is plentiful northward of Rock-
hampton, and the collection of it presents
no outstanding difficulties. Good quality
American and Indian skins bring up to £2
each m London. y


f
Blue Ribbon Honours
of “The Commander.”
March 15. Shattered all Australian records
from 1 to 24 hours and from 100 to 1700 miles
by travelling 1701.33 miles in 24 hrs.
April 3. Bettered Fremantle-Melbourne
Record by 15hrs. 20 mins.
April 3. Lowered Fremantle-Adelaide Record
by 6hrs. 45 mins.
April 4. Smashed Fremantle-Sydney Record
by 12 hrs. 22 mins.
April 4. Established New Australian Recoid
Adelaide-Sydney.
April 6. Established New Australian Recoid
Fremantle-Brisbane.
April 6. Established New Australian Record
Adelaide - Brisbane.
April 6. Established New Australian Record
Melbourne-Brisbane.
Sept. 2. Smashed New York to San Francisco
Transcontinental Record by 2 hrs. 15 mins.
Nov 4 Two Studebaker Commander Roadsters
completed 25,000 miles in less than 23,000
minutes at Atlantic City Speedway. Nothing
made by man ever travelled so far so fast.
Nov. 4. Studebaker captured
all the highest speed and
endurance records m
America for fully equipped
stock cars regardless of
power or price.
The honour of having shattered over a hundred
records culminating in Studebaker s unique
position of holding all the highest Australian and
American speed and endurance records lor fully
equipped stock cars regardless of power or price
—and now a new improved Commander ol long,
low body lines, gleaming, graceful 1
JSfew perfected steering which doubles your
ability to handle the car and gives you quick re-
sponsive control and greater safety . . . increased
power in a new 85 h.p. engine which develops
72 m.p.h new amplified-action 4-wheel
brakes which multiply pedal pressure 3% times
new improved oil and magazine high pres-
sure greasing system reducing oil and grease
changes to only once every 2,500 miles alter first
1,000 miles . . . precision workmanship and high
quality materials enable you to drive at 40 m.p.h.
the day the car is delivered.
Drive The Commander yourself to-day and ex-
perience the thrill of the lithe, untiring power
that made it The World’s Champion Car.
Erskine Models from £298 to £448
Director Models from £378 to £570
Commander Models from £560 to £650
President Models from £665 to £875
All new
Models equipped with shock absorbers and four-wheel brakes.
PRICES F.O.R. SYDNEY
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
NEW SOUTH 1 WALES:
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Ltd ♦
4-16 YURONG STREET, SYDNEY (just behind the Museum)
VICTORIA:
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkins. U Motors, Ltd.
41-45 I J ier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND!
Canada Cvcle & Motor Agency (QV
Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important towns
SOUTH AUSTRALIA t
Millingens. Limited.
42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Adams Ltd., 152-154 High Street,
Christchurch.
WMB9I
F
111
iWI
*4
*
ivuin* 1 " 1


WITH A
W. W. GREENER
GUN
“Calrossie” at Monte
Carlo scored eleven con-
secutive kills 36 yards
rise— 1 9 yards boundary.
Wholesale Representatives'.
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY, LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
Don't wish for the Best —get it.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA'S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
AN OLD “SPOT” MELLOWED BY AGE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney.
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Comuionwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usberotel, Sydney.”
$4-66 Castlereagh St reet, Sydney
SPORTING
NOTINOS
Under the Whip
Pildin, the best hurdler of recent years,
put up a rattling G. National trial in the
Windarra Hurdle at Moonee Valley on Satur-
day. He had eight opponents, and on the
strength of capital work on the tracks since
his return from Sydney was a popular
fancy, threes being the price for a time.
However, there was such solid support for
Urbani and Bligny that the pair wound up
at fours, Pildin and Gift being at fives.
Sir Alogy took the field along at a great
bat, and was still in charge two jumps from
home. At that point Bligny lost his rider —
he was making a fast run at the time. Cut-
ting down the leader, Gift' led into the
straight, but Pildin, finishing with dash and
courage, drew up to the unlucky Ilonorious
gelding and beat him by three-quarters of
a length. Sir Alogy being half a length away
third. Next was old Waranton, who jumps
rather well. Pildin was ridden, as usual,
by Tommy Butler. He carried list. 121 b
he has 51b. less in the National —and after
the races there was no doubt as to who was
favorite for the big Flemington event.
A fine exhibition of fencing was witnessed
in the Travancore Steeple. Reviser (3 to 1),
making his second appearance over the fences
in public, took the lead from the start, and.
outclassing the the others for cleverness and
pace, was never headed, winning in a canter
from Nelanjie (5 to 1) and Secret Stone
(6 to 1). He is a four-year-old gelding
by Red Dennis —Golden Spray, and is owned
by V.R.C. committeeman J. A. MacLeod
and C. F. Taylor, being trained by Bill
Burke. The time, 4min. 16|sec., was a
course record for two miles and eight chains.
Reviser is not in the G. National Steeple-
chase, for which Cliaumont is a warm favor-
ite, especially now that Grey Friar has been
withdrawn.
In the Chandos Handicap, the Kellow
party put in again on Willowyn (9 to 4),
who had won at the previous Valley meeting,
but Hawick (8 to 1) and Wedau (4 to 1)
were too good for him on the day. Different
was the experience with Elarby, also suc-
cessful at the last Valley meeting; a 7-to-4
favorite for the Deep Greek Handicap,
Spearer’s brother, who had Duncan’s assist-
ance, proved decidedly superior to Ragazzo
(10 to 1), Ograb (10 to 1) and the rest.
Ragazzo, however, should do better now that
he has shown a glimpse of his two-year-old
form; a mile and quarter (run in 2min.
6|sec., by the way) may be rather far
for him. Punters, who had had a fairly
good day, made Duncan’s mount, Savadeen.
favorite (at 7 to 2) for the last race, the
Welter Mile, but the Burrabadeen gelding’s
name was never called, Patrocelus (4 to 1)
getting the better of an exciting finish with
Harbinger (4 to 1) ; Kinkie was next.
* * * *
Toohey, the Sydney jockey, is riding very
well these days. At Moorefield on Satur-
day lie dismounted from three winners—•
Brockway (4 to 1) in a two-year-old race,
Resorby (6 to 4) in a division of the Fly-
ing Welter, and Somnolent in the Ilurst-
vifle Mile. On Resorby lie was not obliged
to put forth all his powers, but his good
hands and seat and excellent judgment of
pace obviously assisted the other two. Re-
sorby, a smart sprinter (he is a three-
year-old by Orby’s Pride —ißespectful), is
trained by Jack Kelso, who saddled up the
favorite, Lucy Thrice, in Somnolent’s race.
Lucy is looking very bright, and although
third was the best she could do after a
slow beginning, she should win at a middle
distance presently.
Hinchinbrook, who always earns her oats
in the winter, was first home in the Moore-
field Handicap, but had very little to spare
at the finish from Nobbys, who was giving
her 131 b. and was badly placed for the
greater part of the affair. It was a spirited
betting race: 3 to 1 Luddenham (an indif-
ferent third), 4 to 1 Cute Bird, 5 to 1
Nobbys and Hinchinbrook, 6 to 1 Deferen-
tial, 8 to 1 Sunny Empire, and 12 to 20
to 1 others. In the Hurstvillc Mile, more-
over, it was 7 to 2 Lucy Thrice, 4 to 1
Bavermaine, 9 to 2 Somnolent, 5 to 1 Sharp
Son, 6 to 1 Beelgali, 8 to 1 (threes at first)
Spruiker, 12 to 1 Farmer and 20 to 1 Nan
Ivourgan (second). This is the kind of
wagering that McShortodds loves.
THE ONLY WAY.
FOOZLE (whose ball has disappeared down a rabbit burrow): “Now, then, what are we
going to use here?”
CADDY: “’Ow about a ferret?”
For Canterbury Park on Saturday :
Flying Handicap: Resorby; next, Shana-
kiel.
Trial Stakes; Good and Gay; next, Cos-
toboc.
Canterbury Cup : Prime Don ; next, Lucy
Thrice.
Canterbury Handicap: Lady Clara; next,
An orient.
“Don Crew” : Exasperated with a punter
who had been pricing several horses, Basher
shut his bag with a bang. “I tell you I’m
offerin’ threes Blue Squib,” he shouted. “Are
you deaf?” “Oh, no,” said the punter, “I
heard you. What price Flash Alec?”
“Eights,” snapped Basher with outstretched
hand. “How much?” The punter consulted
his racebook carefully. “N-o. I think I'll
back King Olaf.” he said. “What are you
offering King Olaf?” Basher skewered him
with a look. “King Olaf !” lie snorted. “You
don’t want to back King anythink. I’ll bet
you ain't seen a king outside a deck of
cards.”
“Ula” : A Sydney girl met the most absent-
minded man in Melbourne the other day.
They were introduced on the lawn at Flem-
ington. “Yes, I’m from Sydney,” she said.
“Watson’s Bay. Do you know it?” No
answer came from the uncouth person ; his
thoughts were far away. ‘“lt’s by the Gap,”
you know,” the lady went on—“out of the
city. “Out o’ ” —the absentminded one
said. “What’s it ever done? And why don’t
they give it a name?”
* ❖ ❖ *
“C. Bumpkin”: This motor age hasn’t
killed the rural sports meeting, and motorists
who cling to the good tar roads miss one of
the pleasantest features of country life. My
children, although they live in a Melbourne
suburb, attend on an average one a month
throughout the year, camping for the night
if the distance is too great for a horse, to
cover in a day. Eltham, Greensborough,
Diamond Creek, the Lower Plenty, Kangaroo
Ground —lovely names—each has its annual
festival, and a youth with a mount skilled in
flag-racing and musical chairs, and with a
turn for trotting, can earn a lot of prize-
money. If he hasn’t got one of his own he
can borrow one from a field while the owner
isn’t looking, but a second-rate prad is of
no avail —one’s antagonist may be a dis-
qualified Richmond trotter rung in under a
different name. McShortodds doesn’t disdain
these lowly functions; he turns up in
force, ready to lay the odds on anything,
from a dog-fight to whether the girl in the
pink skirt walking across the course will
beat the girl in blue to the boundary rails.
Actual racing is not allowed, but time tests
achieve the same result
“Ula”: Jack Corteen did return to the
game after his disqualification in the Purser
case (B. 20/6/’2S). Two horses that carried
his colors in Vic. were Phoebus (recently
killed in a schooling accident) and Epical
(one of the few offspring of The Verderer
racing in Australia). Neither, however,
did any good.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
There was quite a large crowd at the Syd-
ney Stadium on Saturday night, when
Danny Lewis, a welter from San Francisco,
went up against Jack Carroll, the Victorian.
Jack, who scaled lOst. to Lewis’s lOst.
4}lb., looked a shade fine drawn, and cer-
tainly did not show at his best. Nevertheless
the man from ’Frisco was no match for him,
though game enough. Danny took a wicked
hiding stoically, and in the ninth round
showed such courage and aggressiveness as
to draw from Jack the best that was in that
clever young man on the night. However,
that was the visitor’s last serious effort,
and from then to the finish of the 15th round
Carroll was very lenient. Referee Wallis
crowned the lithe and unruffled Victorian.
* * * *
Increased avoirdupois has forced Norm
Gillespie to relinquish his Australian feather-
weight title, and on Saturday night at Mel-
bourne he stepped into the ring at 9st. 81b. to
do battle with Joe Marcus _(9st. 7Mb.), a
recent arrival from Yankeeland. Early in
the bout Norman sent out SOS signals,
having been injured on the left side; but,
displaying Spartan courage, he took every-
thing that Joe could hurl at him for 11
rounds without being able to retaliate with
effect. Then Val Quirk called a halt.. Joseph
is not clever, but he is a pretty good fighter.
On the same programme Louis Pergantas
(12st. 21b.) and Henry Irslinger (12st. 41b.),
described as a former English champion, in-
dulged in a mild wrestling match. It must be
some time since Henry held any title, but Louis
was kind. They contributed a lot of harmless
spectacular stuff until the fourth spasm, when
an imaginary kick to the chin staggered
Henry and Louis downed him with a body-
press and half-Nelson. In the next round
the Greek again scored and the joke was over.
“John Pip" : “Starlight,” who fought Fitz-
simmons and Creedon and hundreds of lesser
lights, is a member of the Melbourne branch
of the Marine Cooks' Union, which is trying
to recover from the foolish 15 weeks’ strike.
Still something of a dandy and wonderfully
well preserved, “Star” went to the union
rooms every day during the trouble, and
discussed the possibilities. He tells me he is
74, and he must be. Creedon, too, is well
known to Melbourne watersiders. Although
years younger than “Starlight,” Dan looks
more than his age and does very little work
nowadays.
Footbrawl
The meeting of the improving Footscray
team and the Collingwood Magpies drew
30,000 to the rather attractive 'Scray
ground. 'Scray's XVIII was fast and
clever, but hadn’t the macliine-like method
of the others. Still, it owned a 20-point
lead at lemon-time, and the barrackers
were jubilant; but the team’s weak points
had been duly noted, and in the last quarter
’Wood more than doubled its score, piling on
six goals with almost mathematical pre
eision while the Tricolors gathered in but
seven points: ’Wood, 78 points;- ’Scray, 74.
A clean, pleasant game. A contrast was the
Carlton-Essendon imbroglio, both trying to
squeeze into “the four.” The teams made
it extra-willing and at least six players'
should have been reported, but weren’t. Carl-
ton won by 78 to 66. Hawthorn played
really well against Richmond in a match
conspicuous for injuries sustained, though
no spite was shown; Gcddes, Richmond’s
contain, collected a broken arm. Richmond,
102 points : Hawthorn, 76. Melbourne visited
South Melbourne and both combined to
stage a scrambling, unmannerly game not
worth watching. Melb. got 90 points to
South’s 7S. St. Ivilda went to Fitzroy and
put it all over the Maroons, winding up with
88 to 60; and North Melbourne returned
from Geelong with another licking to think
over—Geelong, 77 ; North, 52.
* x * *
“S.T.S.” : That Vic.-Soutli Aus. match(B.
20/6/’2B) should go down to history as the
most curious on record. All Adelaide,
including the newspaper experts, gave it
up as lost in advance, though there was no
line, except last year’s “carnival” form, to
go on. I heard of 5 to 1 being laid. For
the first 15 minutes the S.A. youths fed the
other side gently, like Crawford at tennis
on one of his off days; then they found out
they were still alive, and proceeded to prove-
it. In the third quarter they caught up, and
even soared ahead on the board, by a goal
that they hadn’t really got. (It was quietly
subtracted at the interval.) In ■ the last
quarter the bigger Victorians tired, and the
light S.A. men were all over them. Amidst
transports of enthusiasm the bell rang with
the Wheat Staters apparently a point to
the good. Afterwards it was found that
the board had again gone wrong, by a
point; and the result was a tie: \ ictona,
13 goals 10 behinds; S.A., 11, 22. Many
were the wagers that had to be refunded, for
all the country towns got the false result
instantly, and the true one next day.
* * * *
“Hotham” : The Vic. Football Association
has invoked additional police protection' for
umpires and players. The delegates were
informed by the Police Commissioner that
there would need to be specific V.F.A. regu-
lations, to be approved of by the Governor-
in-Council ; meantime the police would do
all in their power to control the spectators
and see that umpires are “safely escorted
to the dressing-rooms after the games.” A
nice touch, that last.
(Continued on page 41.)
PICKING T’ OOMP.
[Fob Tiis Bulletin.]
“A tense situation occurred at Brisbane when the
pwlish Rugby League team demanded the right to
choose the umpire in the Test match. After holding
““tllf midnight of the day before the match, the
local officials Surrendered and withdrew the referee
they had appointed.”
The times have changed since sportsmen
strove
In friendly emulation.
“Fair play” was once their slogan high ;
“The best man win” their constant cry,
“And no recrimination.”
That attitude as asinine
The “sport” of latter days regards.
His policy he’ll thus define:
“No play unless I stack the cards.”
So in the football field we see
The Leaguers we’ve imported—
Regardless, the engaging set,
Of precedent and etiquette—
Assume this view distorted.
The ultimatum gives offence:
“That sort o’ goof tha all canst loomp;
Joost mind ma, if tha’s ony sense,
Noa plaay onless we pick t’ oomp.
That any folk with self-respect
Should stand the thing amazes.
But in this game of boot and bash
The fear of losing bags of cash
Imagination fazes.
And so instanter they agree
(As people might have guessed they
would)
In unabashed humility: •
“We’ll play all right—the moneys good!
N.S.W.
SWING TH’ BOOT.


“Acknowledged Leaders in the SPORT World.”
«5)
Keep fit during the Winter months.
SANDOW’S
DEVELOPERS
(j w!ic*n unirz
$A
U
. chest M
expand*:«* j j
Sandow’s Combina-
tion Developers.
Popular Model,
set 19/6
Improved
Model, set 27/6
Sandow’s New
Model Dumb
Bells
Self-adjusting and
Grip Testing, ad-
justs to your
strength, registers
your grip pressure,
bell rings when
closed and released.
Pair 21 -
l uwersally adjudged by experts and famous
players as one of the world’s finest Tennis
Rackets!
Lee tyonogram Racket
Model-de-Luxe
price 77/6
The Racket with the exclusive patented slotted
throat. 3 his ieature ensures absolutely perfect
balance, absorbs crashing jolts and gives the
“Lee Monogram” a wonderful resiliency and
driving power.
Strung with highest-grade English Gut. Frame
carries a full Six (6) Months’ Guarantee.
Every Known Requisite
for Every Indoor Game & Outdoor Sport
In every instance the highest standard of quality is consistent with the
lowest possible price.
Games of Skill for Wiiiter Evenings!
Bobs. Table Tennis, etc
I
D
.
2*55
VST--
r
tj
■n
BOBS SETS, consisting of wood
frame, with folding sides, balls,
cue and rules.
9/-, 10/6, 14/6 25/-
and upwards.
(Carriage Extra. )
MURRAY BRIDGE. The ideal
Indoor Game for young and
old. Skilful, exciting, fascin-
ating, noiseless in play. Com-
plete with Hardwood Balls, Cue
and Rules.
Per Set: 15/6, 18/6, 21/-
(Carriage Extra.)
TABLE TENNIS SETS, com
prising two 3-ply bats, posts,
wire clips, net, 2 English
balls, with rules, in box
y, ,*%
Others at —
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
TIV-SKIT, a combination of
Tivoli and Skittles. Two Games
in One. For Fetes,
Bazaars, the Home, etc.
- _
L I '
(Carriage Extra. )
(Carriage Paid on Goods except where specified otherwise.)
Complete Detailed Sports Catalogues Post Free on request.
'immons
hi
HEADQUARTERS: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
AND AT NEWCASTLE AND BRISBANE.
“Australia’s Largest Sports Outfitters.”
The most original and best thing in Athletic
Apparatus this century has produced.
“RUB-A-CUP WALL”
Punching Ball Platform
Price (No Ball) M$
30/- *
4?
Easily and simply-
adjusted anywhere in
the home, and taken
down and put away
in a few moments,
when not in use. Its
action is perfect and
meets every need of the professional. Equal
in every way to the expensive platform, at a
fraction of the cost. Reversible for “upp'er-
cutting” and “hooking.”
Every Club a beautiful example of the
Club-maker’s Art!
"Will Corry” Autograph
Matched Woods and
Graded Irons
Scientifically-treated shafts, hand-forged irons,
specially-prepared leather grips.
MATCHED WOODS 25/-
RUSTLESS GRADED IRONS. . 25-
SPECIAL GRADED IRONS .. 20 /-
vOJ
/T^
«
i
a
Demonstrations or
Illustrated Folder
on request.
SYDNEY: The Edison Shop, 5 I Castlereagh Street.
MELBOURNE: The Edison Shop, 238 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: S.A. Phonograph Co., Ltd., Gilbert
Buildings, Gilbert Place.
Metropolitan Distributors: Wertheims, 84 Rundle
Street.
BRISBANE: W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd., 86-88 Queen
Street.
PERTH: Phonographs, Ltd., 671 Hay Street, Perth.
LAUNCESTON: Wills & Co. Pty., Ltd., 7 Quadrant.
HOBART: A. Paton & Sons, 136 Liverpool Street.
OR YOUR NEAREST EDISON DEALER.
A Sparkling Naturalness never before
attained in a Phonograph
The music of the amazing Edisonic is “close-up .music ” Instead
of a thin outline, Edisonic music is near, surging, vibrant. Each
note, each instrument, each voice, stands out in relief; the realism
is amazing! ■ ,
popularity and interest is coming to
the new Edisonic. Impartial critics every-
where are realising that here is a truly remarkable
and surprising advance in acoustic science.
In your home there is a place for this gifted
musician—it is waiting to give your family happier
hours than they have dreamt of. See it and listen
hear for yourself its incomparable realism.
The astounding
Sdt&onic
Wholesale Only: THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Syd
ney.


A MAN in
LONDON
needing clothes can visit a “show” shop and
be duped; or he can patronise a West End
establishment where, even after the customary
10 per cent, discount for cash, he will be
helping to pay for those who never do; or he
can find a Tailor whose standing is unquestion-
able who makes clothes for cash payments only.
Mr. Jennings, of Newgate Street, London,
has been in business for a quarter of a cen-
tury, and has a large clientHe in Australia.
Only cloth made by reputable manufacturers
from finest Australian tops is countenanced.
The cutters he employs are live men with wide
experience. All clothes supplied by Mr.
Jennings are made by hand, and complete
satisfaction is guaranteed.
His modest prices are based on cash pay-
ments only, Lounge Suits, for instance, costing
from 7 to 10 guineas.
W. G. JENNINGS,
119 Newgate Street, London, E.C.I.
JFyju. i/ntencT*
S^udiwu.
—then let us send you a copy of "The Book of 'The Australia’,” in which
are described and illustrated some features of the Hotel of the Common-
wealth—thus enabling you to anticipate the luxurious comfort we offer.
Single Room, with Breakfast, from 15/-; Luncheon or Dinner from 5/-}
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, 2/6.
Cable, Wireless and Telegraphic Address: "Austraotel, Sydney.”
sd
THE HO I EL OF THE COMMONWEALTH
SYDNEY
ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up—Beautiful
lighting effects—A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary,
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Cafe de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines).
{Also under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
Footbrawl
The first Test match between the English
League footballers and the Australian ex-
ponents of the code selected from N.S.W.
and Queensland— was played at Brisbane on
Saturday before a crowd of nearly 40,000,
anc won by England by 15 points (3 tries
Jnd 3 goals) to 12 (2 tries and 3
„oals). The visitors had previously created
an u°'ly situation by refusing point-blank
to play unless allowed to choose their own
umpire. At the last moment, the Australian
authorities gave in sooner than disappoint
the public and lose the “gate”—they always
oive in when League difficulties arise, lhe
Englishmen surpassed all previous showings.
Particularly was this the case in tackling.
Li the previous games general wonder was
expressed at the high tackling of these ex-
perienced professionals; on. Saturday they
went low and hard. There seems little doubt
that they have been keeping something in
the bag for the opening Test. The victory
was much more complete than the scores
indicate, the tourists dominating the game
in the first half and towards the closing
stages of the second. It is interesting to
note that the all-round speed of the English-
men, both forward and back, was greater
than that of their opponents —another re-
versal of form. The pivot of the English
success was the brilliancy of the two half-
backs, Rees, behind the scrum this time, and
Fairclough, standing off. The pair gave a
brilliant display, Fairclough being rated the
best back on the ground. The centres,
Oliver and Brough, were worthy supporters,
and kept Hardy and Gorman well occupied.
Askin and Ellaby, on the wing, finished off
movements in fine style ; the latter, making
bis first appearance in the North, exhibited
no signs of his recent injury, and scored
a great try. The English pack was also
translated for the occasion, with Sloman
the best of a vanguard that never let up for
a moment. Among the Australians, chief
honors go to the forwards, xvith Steinohrt,
Treweeke and Yorke standing out. Edwards
did well at half, but Fred Laws failed to
show his usual understanding with his State
team-mate, and the centres, Gorman and
Norman Hardy, suffered. Aynsley was as
speedy as ever on the wing, and scored a
sensational try.
* * * *
The Rugby League grade games in Sydney
on Saturday lacked the hectic flavor which
had distinguished some of them the previous
week. The grounds were again in a wretched
condition and all the games were hampered
in consequence. It was a chastened St.
George which pushed South Sydney, last
year’s premiers, further down the slippery
slide at Earl Park, winning by 7 (a try and
two goals) to 5 (a try and a goal). Though
Eastern Suburbs maintained its place at the
top of the table by beating Newtown 16-10
(4 tries 2 goals to 2 tries 2 goals) it had
to go all out, the Newtown backs showing
unexpectedly good form. A terrible exhibi-
tion of football at Wentworth Oval saw
Balmain emerge victorious over Glebe by
15 points to 5. Both sides have fallen far
from their high estate of a few seasons ago.
At North Sydney, University succumbed to
North Sydney by 9 to 2 —-a try and a penalty
goal to a penalty goal.
* ' * * *
“Cooloongatta”: They take their football
seriously in the country, and no item of the
ritual may be omitted. A recent match at
Tweed Heads, on the N.S.W.-Queensland
border, is a case in point. Seagulls were to
play Burringbar, but the latter failed to
turn up. The match was for a trophy, and
no chances could be taken, so 30 minutes
after the appointed starting time Seagulls
fluttered on to the field. The coin was
tossed and Seagulls elected to play with
the wind. A try was scored a few moments
after the kick-off, and after the goal was
kicked the victorious team retired to
celebrate their win by 5 to nil, after giving
three cheers for the beaten side that wasn’t
there.
* * *
“Gate”: The exhibition of booting and
fisticuffs in the Rugby League match be-
tween St. George and Western Suburbs, when
four players were sent off and at least 14
deserved to be, roused a storm of protest,
even in quarters with strong League sympa-
thies. The League might have rehabilitated
its somewhat faded reputation as an execu-
tive body by passing out the offenders for
life; instead, it disqualified one player for
the season, and the others for from six to
three matches. The Cricket Ground inci-
dent has had one good effect in calling public
attention to the trustees’ policy of giving
the League a winter monopoly. There have
already been indications that this phase
has passed for good, and the brawl on Satur-
day week should clinch matters once and for
all.
* * * *
The Rugby Union premiership looks very
open, though Y.M.C. A. still heads the table
with a lead of three points from Randwick.
Western Suburbs played good football in
the mud at St. Luke’s to beat Northern
Suburbs by 20 to 9. F. King, on the wing,
scored three of West’s five tries. Univer-
sity trounced Manly by 23 (7 tries and a
converting goal) to 3 (1 try). Randwick
had a hard tussle to beat Glebe-Balmain at
Coogee, the big Glebe-Balmain forwards, led
by Jack Ford, giving the seasiders no end of
trouble. Randwick got plenty of the ball,
however, and was enabled to employ its
fine back division to advantage, finally run-
ning out winners by 11 to 9, or 2 tries, a
goal and a penalty goal to 2 tries and a
penalty goal. Eastern Suburbs won from
St. George by 28 (8 tries and 2 goals) to
18 (3 tries and 4 goals). The game was
mostly confined to the forwards, but the
backs occasionally showed some good flashes
of combined football on what was practi-
cally a quagmire. The Saints continue to
show signs of improvement, and the for-
wards, well led by R. Judd, were quite equal
to their more experienced opponents.
“Gwy” : Crossed the line in Sydney, at 66,
Lewis Abrams, who did more than anyone
else to introduce district Rugby football. In
the 1890’s clubs like University, Wallaroo,
Randwick, Wentworth, Pirate, and latterly
Buccaneer and Sydney, drew players from
anywhere. Abrams barracked for electoral
boundaries as a sounder basis, and gained
his point in 1900. He was such a stickler for
consistency that he would even have excluded
University as an excrescence on the district
SHORT-SIGHTER GOLFER: “Dash! Another damned
mushroom!”
scheme, a fact which lent a certain piquancy
to the encounters between ’Varsity and
Abrams’s proteges, Glebe, under the new
regime.
# if: if:
“Stand Off”: With the idea of giving
country players a chance to prove their
claims for inclusion in the side to visit
Maoriland, the N.S.W. Rugby Union is
bringing teams from Newcastle, Clarence
River, New England, the North-West and
Orange to Sydney. They will play matches
during the second week in July against the
leading metropolitan clubs. The team for
Maoriland will leave Sydney on August 17,
returning on September 21.
Racquet and Bawl
Though the Australian players did not
score a victory in the big Queen’s Club
tourney, which is a preliminary gallop for
Wimbledon, the two colts, Crawford and
Hopman, showed a welcome return to their
Australian form. Hopman played through
to the semi-finals of the singles, when he
went down to the American, Hunter, after
a stiff fight. He and Crawford reached the
final of the doubles, and gave the redoubtable
Tilden and Hunter a great go for it, the
Americans winning by 3 sets to 2, or 30
games to 25.
=i= * * *
The Italians put England out of the
Davis Cup competition, winning three singles
matches and the doubles. In the singles,
Stefani beat Gregory by three sets to one,
after losing the first set, 3-6. De Mor-
pugo won in three straight sets from Higgs,
though the Englishman made a good fight,
scores being 6-5, 6-4, 6-5. In the doubles,
De Morpugo and Gaslini defeated Crole-Rees
and Eames, 6-4, 3-6, 4-6, 9-7, 7-5. Czecho-
slovakia knocked out Holland, and will
tackle Italy for the right to meet America
in the inter-zone final.
“Rev. Knucklebone” : The Wightman Cup
has been captured by the British girls, who,
playing on their own ground, beat the
Americans by four matches to three. Helen
Wills, of course, smashed her way through
all opposition in the singles, and Miss
Jacobs put the extinguisher on the much-
boomed Betty Nuthall. Mrs. Watson and
Eileen Bonnet equalled matters, for both
accounted for Mrs. Mallory, and the pair
beat Helen Wills and Miss Anderson in
doubles. Misses Harvey and Saunders then
overcame Misses Goss and Jacobs. When
the bauble had to be presented to the winners,
the Yankettes were obliged
to admit that it had been
left behind in Amurrica.
* * *
“Top Spin”: One of the
surprises of last week in
European tennis was the em-
phatic defeat of Jean Borotra
in the Holland championship
by F. T. Hunter, the
American. Hunter won 6-0,
6-3, 7-5, figures which sug-
gest that the Basque is stale.
He had a fairly strenuous
time in Australia after *a
South American and Maori-
land tour, and showed signs
of cracking on more than one
occasion here. Then followed
a heavy programme in South
Africa, and many European
appearances. In spite of
Jean’s oft-repeated assurance
that tennis is only a side-line
with him, he has been doing
little else but play it for
some years past, as the list
of his engagements shows.
II unt e r is a first-class
doubles play e r, and will
probably represent America
in that capacity in the Davis
Cup contests when the
American-European zone
final is contested. But few
judges of the game would
give him . a chance with
Borotra at his best.
The Nineteenth Hole
The amateur golf cham-
pionship of N.S.W. w r as won
on Saturday by C. 11. Faw-
cett, of the Royal Sydney
Club; lie beat Lee Brown,
of the Australian -Club, at
the 36th hole, by one up.
After the elimination of last
year’s champ io n, Eric
Apperly, in the first round
of match play, it became
evident that Fawcett and
Brown would be well up at
the finish, and both came
through to the final by sheer
consistency, with Lee .Brown
the more brilliant. Fawcett, however, stood
the strain of the final better than his
opponent, though both men were inclined to
be jumpy in the final afternoon round, this
affecting their putting. Fawcett was 2 up
and doriny at the 34tli, and only wanted a
4to halve and win. Missing a 12-foot putt,
lie laid himself a stymie. A good chip round
the cup, but the ball came out again and
lie was one up. However, the next was halved
and the match was over. The Royal Sydney
man took the Victorian championship as long
ago as 1019, when that was played as a
stroke event. This is his first big win under
match-play conditions.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The club championship of
Seaton, Adelaide’s oldest and biggest golf
club, has been won once more by Legh
Winser, orchardist, private secretary to the
State Governor and former wicketkeeper
for Staffordshire (England) and for S.A.
It is his fourth successive win ; also, he had
a run of three in 1921-23. Forbes led on
the first round, and Astley on the third;
but Winser was the most consistent, and
finished the three rounds with a score of
235 to Astley’s 236.
❖ i\i :J:
“A. Sheer”: Canberra crows and urchins
are not the only creatures that collect golf
balls they have never paid for. On our Vic.
links recently the clearing of a patch of
thick scrub revealed a hoard of balls with
the covers gnawed and marked by large,
strong teeth, like dogs’. As no sooner may
stray upon the holy precincts, opinions are
divided as to whether the biter was a deluded
fox or “Colonel Damurize” beside himself
with rage at the sight of a female holing
a long putt.
. :js
“Divot Digger”: Wagga (N.S.W.) has
been a keen golfing centre for some years
past, but the old racecourse links have been
unsatisfactory. A splendid new site has
now been secured on a property fronting
Lake Albert, a big sheet of water about four
miles from Wagga. D. G. Soutar is to be
be engaged to lay out the course in collabo-
ration with the local professional, Charlie
Gray, who has had recent experience of ftie
up-to-date American courses. The country
is undulating and just sufficiently wooded to
provide sporting natural hazards. Grass
greens, with water from the lake, will be
laid down, and it is hoped to have the
course ready for. play early next year.
* * * *
“0.P.H.” : When helping the administra-
tive staff of the Vic. Education Department
to say good-bye to retiring Director Tate,
Mcßae, Chief Inspector, confessed that the
outgoing chief had beaten him at golf, but
more, he argued, by strategy than skill.
During one round, it seems, Tate questioned
the progress being made by certain special
country schools in which Mcßae was taking
a marked interest, but Mac defended his
proteges without losing his playing poise.
He managed also to avoid any perturbation
when Tate, as they moved along, attempted
to discount the claims of Scottish literature.
But when Mcßae looked “home and dried”
Tate said he was impressed with the evidence
ip support of the theory that Robert Burns
was an Irishman. This put the Mcßae right
off his game, and Tate won.
=l= * * *
“Miss Mashie”: Oatlands (Tas.) has no
monopoly of Sabbatarianism (B. 13/6/’2B).
At Picton (N.S.W.) no play is permitted
by the owner of the links during
church hours. The Picton club started off:
last year with a great fanfare of trumpets,
but owing to its inability to obtain
a lease has allowed the course, which has an
ideal situation, to fall into disrepair. So
the young Piets may grow up in ignorance
of the game which has given to the world
such a chivalrous and courteous supporter
of the associate member as “.Colonel Dam-
urize.”
“Brasses”: The N.S.W. Golf Club, the
latest addition to Australian courses and one
of the best appointed, was formally opened
on Saturday by the Governor-General, who
was handed a silver-headed putter for his
trouble. Situated at La Perouse, overlooking
Botany Bay and the ocean, the course was
laid out by Dr. Mackenzie, the famous
British golfing architect. Only nine holes
were available on the opening day, but the
full 18 will be open next week
* * *
“Colonel Damurize”: I note that Archie
Compston, most brilliant of British golfers,
is anxious to come to Australia. Of course,
he asks for a guarantee, and because of this
there is some doubt in Australian golfing
circles as to whether the money can be raised.
I now put forward the suggestion that
enough cash can be got together to bring out
Compston, Hagen, Abe Mitchell and Joe
Kirkwood if only the obvious course be
taken. That is the comxielling of the associ-
ate members who infest every course in Ausr
tralia to make some return in cash for the
privileges they exact from clubs whose male
members have to pay the piper. During a recent
tour of my own club course on a Saturday
afternoon, a period which ought to be reserved
strictly for male members who work all
the week, I observed from my bath-chair that
fully 50 per cent, of the players on the course
were women, all of them about four strokes
behind the ordinary rate of progression for
minus-14 male members. No one with any
regard for his own safety cares to play
through a party of associates. I tried it
once and will never forget the remarks
addressed to me by an adipose female who
was unfortunately struck by my ball while
she was in the act of illegally teeing her
own in the fairway. These irrational crea-
tures pay infinitesimal fees compared with
the menfolk and exact at least 350 per cent
value therefrom, I suggest that they bb
policed and that, fees be charged for such
items as stopping to powder their noses, sur-
reptitiously kicking the ball out of a bad
lie into a good one, smiling languishingly at
a male partner and gurgling “Oh, you must
u’t me have that one again” when they have
fluffed a tee shot, and another thousand
things I could mention.
(Continued on neat pane.)


Grata
tIQUEUB
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow
Shipped by
\VM. GRANT & SONS. LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm ol Scotch Whisky Die tillers.
-■ ggffas&r
ii ■ ■■ b;b jiiH'iifjrffr*
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
t ii/i aucdv
’
fs
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Car and Cycle
“Britto : Twenty-four-hour races for
standard cars are becoming very popular in
America and Europe, and in these events
a British car. the Bentley, a comparative
ncA\’comcr in the field, has had a wonderful
record of successes. Following a recent chal-
lenge match in which a French-built Ilis-
pano-Suiza literally ran rings round an
American Stutz, a match betAveen the 4500-
e.c. Bentley and the French car was
arranged. No report as to its outcome is to
hand, but in the meantime the Bentley has
met the Stutz in the 24-hour event promoted
by the Automobile Club de l’Ouest at Le
Mans, France. This is an event in which
stock cars of from 750 c.c. to 5000 c.c. capa-
city and over, standardised as to equipment,
wind resistance and fuel, compete together,
results being assessed by formula; but the
Bentley and the Stutz were in the top class
and had a great race. The English car beat
the French record in its class, and averaged
694 m.p.h., touching 107 m.p.li. at times. A
Bentley won the same event last year.
* ••!= >!: *
“Coil”: Norman Smith has driven his
Studebaker Commander in top gear over
Bulli and Kurrajong passes, the two stillest
road climbs in N.S.W'. The car, a stock
model, had already niade motoring history
in Smith’s 24-liour drive on Lake Perko-
lilli (W.A.).
* * : i* *
“Trembler”: Both the Royal Automobile
Club of Australia and the Sydney Bicycle
and Motor Club are featuring a trip to Mel-
bourne and back during the second half of
the season, in addition to the usual pro-
gramme of reliability and touring contests.
The big events are timed for October. The
Sydney club’s tour will be by way of the
Federal Highway for both outAvard and re-
turn journeys; the R.A.C. route will be a
round trip, down by Avay of Goulburn and
Albury and back by Avay of the Prince’s
Highway.
* * * *
“Whizz” : Brisbane, especially the younger
generation, is still crazy about dirt-track
motor-cycling although so many dashing
youths have gone abroad. An exasperated
school-teacher, failing to hold the attention of
his history class, .said, “If I asked you to
name the three greatest Australians to-day,
you’d answer Pearce. Huxley and Smythe”
(all local riders of great There was
an amazed silence for a moment, and then a
hand went up. “Please, sir, wot about Billy
Lamont?”
* * * *
“Sprocket”: The recent meeting of the
Polytechnic Cycling Club at Herne Hill
track, near London, veherc the Australian
Olympic cyclists are iioav training, suav!
some fine riding, though the times put up by
the British and Continental amateurs indi-
cate that the Australian riders, Standen and
Gray, will have more than a chance of hold-
ing their own at the Olympiad. The 1000
metres,* for instance, on a perfect cement
track and in good weather, took the winner,
IT. E. Pryor, linin. 15 4-ssec. In the
Olympic trials on Sydney Sports Ground,
Jack Standen did the same journey in a
howling gale in 1 min. 16 3-sscc.; and the
Sports Ground is in class C 3 as a cycling
track.
* * if
“Rat Trap" : The Australasian cycling team
of four, headed by Hubert Opperman, is
making a brave showing in the Tour de
France road-race, which started from Paris
on Sunday week, and has still a week or so
to go before the encirclement of France is
completed. Our lads are heavily handicapped
in the matter of pacing owing to the group
system under which the race is run, and alio
lose a great deal more time than their
better-organised competitors Avium punctures
occur. Teams overtaking others must nor
shelter behind or take pace from them, but
pass on. This alone indicates how four men
must suffer as compared with a full team
of 10. Opperman, as expected, has proved
the outstanding rider among the Australians
Watson, the Maorilander, is also doing well.
** * .
“Ball Race”: Though Australian cyclists
have little honor in their oavu country and
are compelled to go abroad to gain cash or
kudos, they bulk big in America, when l meet-
ings are run all the year round and the
prize-money is lavish. In the latest Ameri-
can record-list Australian riders credited
Avith Avorld figures are Clark, Goullet, the
late E. A. Pye. Cecil Walker. Grcnda, Mac-
narnara and Mcßeath —a list of achieve-
ments equalled by no other country outside
America itself.
Miscellaneous
“Spike”: The Australian Olympic team
has cast up in England in good health and
spirits, though one or two minor injuries are
reported in the Avrestling section. The party
is quartered in London, and all hands have
begun preliminary training. A pleasant fea-
ture of the team’s advent was the Avelcome
and assistance rendered by prominent Eng-
lish athletes. 11. M. Abrahams has taken
the runners, especially Jim Carlton, under
his wing for coaching; and W. J. Bailey
many times champion over distances from
440 yards to 5 miles, is looking after the
cyclists. A report not so agreeable to read
is that entries for the Diamond Sculls at
Henley, for which Pearce had intended to
compete, closed without the Sydney youth’s
name having been submitted. It is explained
that the team manager. Les Duff, failed to
forward the entry under the impression that
the Australian amateur was ineligible. How
he could have thought so, in view of the
fact that several Australian amateurs have
competed in the Diamonds: —Cecil McVilly,
of Tassy, won in 1913—is hard to under-
stand.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: American and Continental
athletes have been giving our Olympic re-
presentatives a hint or tAvo as to what they
may expect at Amsterdam. In the final
Olympic trials in N’Yark, Johnny Gibson
did the 400 metres (437.44yd5.) hurdles in
50 3-lGsec., a neAv world’s record. The
Australasian record for the 440 yards
hurdles is 56 l-ssee.; it is held by A. .7.
Watson, of the Olympic team. In a match
between France. Italy and Switzerland
Facelli, the Italian hurdler, Avon the 400
metres in 53 4-ssec., while France Avon the
400 metres relay in 41 3-ssec. and the jave-
lin throw Avith 202 ft. 2fin. —both very close
to Olympic records. Even the flappers are
setting the pace. One Lottie Mueclie, of
Germany, covered the 200 metres breast-
stroke in 3min. 15 4-ssec. Australia’s best
time for 220 yards (1.28 yards over 200
metres) is Doris Thompson’s 3min. 25sec.
* >!: *
“Bamboo”: Owing to the withdrawal of
Toowoomba (Q.) from the Dudley Cup
competition, which opens at Kensington
(N.S.W.) on June 29. the Sydney I> team
has also been dropped to make an even
number of competitors, and the draw has
been rearranged. The first round will see
the British Army team from India up against
Canberra. The visitors have been practising
hard and had a pipe-opener at the Goulburn
tournament. The polo-pony show, always a
feature of tin 1 big meeting, will be held on
July 6, which will othcrAvise be a blank day,
Avith players and ponies spelling for the
finals.
“Ride Off” : In spite Of strange conditions
and ponies, the British officers made a most
impressive showing at the Goulburn tourney.
After getting their eye in against a Can-
berra side, they beat Goulburn, one of the
strongest sides in Australia, by 7 goals 8
behinds to 5 goals 7 behinds. The feature of
their play was their uncanny hitting and
control of the ball. They Avon more easily
than the scores indicate.
* * :!: *
“Bouragi”: The modern tendency to re-
port sporting events in terms of glowing
imagery—-tennis and football are cases in
point—seems to have extended to Papua.
In an account, of Papuan cricket contributed
to “Plum” Warner’s monthly, Cricket, a
FRED LINDRUM, elder of the famous
Australian brothers, who is about to
invade England to tackle the best ex-
ponents of billiards in that country.
Avriter jambs the hooks into his bounding
imagination Avith all the freedom of a Sydney
tennis official reporting a life-and-deatii
struggle between tAvo flappers at the White
City courts. The Papuan correspondent
over-reaches, however, Avhen he describes
the flocks of monkeys squatting in the cocoa-
nut-palms round the ground and barrack-
ing after the fashion of the critics on the
Hill at the Sydney C. G. There are no
monkeys in Papua. The scribe would have
made a better j®b of it by introducing a
tiger and a couple of rogue elephants.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The covering-the-wicket
rule has given general dissatisfaction in Aus-
tralia, in spi'te of alterations and adjust-
ments. South Australia now intends pro-
posing that no covering be used after 7 a.m.
on days of play, the pitch to be covered at night
only. S. Aus. also suggests that the six-ball
over should be restored, and that point scor-
ing for the Sheffield Shield games be altered
J. NOSEDA, secretary of the N.S.W. Rugby
Union, whose organising capacity has
had much to do with the revival of the
amateur code in Australia.
to four points for a win, a drawn game not to
count. The proposal to leave the Avicket
uncovered after play has commenced, except
at night, doesn’t go far enough. The sooner
the idiotic practice is entirely abolished the
better for the game.
:|: :!: * *
“Nakhoda”: The approach of a chess week
in Melbourne reminds me of a queer game I
Avitnessed in Malaya. Malay chess ( main
chatur) is easy enough for a foreigner to
follow, once he lias grasped the fact that
tilt 1 queen is a prime minister and the bishop
aii elephant. The contestants played more
rapidly than we do, and one game quickly
succeeded another. On each one a limb or an
organ was wagered, and the loser had to
keep that part of himself absolutely still
until he had won it back again. By the end
of the evening one player was by consent
armless and legless, while the other had lost
the use of both eyeballs. The meeting broke
up in general guffaws and coffee-drinking.
But there was a grim background to the
harmless pastime. In pre-British days a
reckless gambler—and all Malays are reck-
less gamblers—-could wager his house, buf-
falo. wife, children and himself, and if he
lost the lot went into debtor-slavery to the
winner, generally for the rest of his days.
:|c *
“Black Red” : I wonder if “cocking” has;
entirely vanished from the list of Sydney
sports. A generation ago one occasionally
heard rumors of a main or two being fought
in the then impenetrable jungles of the North
Shore or in the desert wastes of Botany;
but now even rumor seems to be dead, and
the tin hare flourishes where once the Duck-
wing, the Red Pile or the Old English Red
fought it out to the glory and contentment
of their backers. These reflections are in-
duced by the perusal of a GlasgOAv paper
which publishes, alongside a report of a tin-
hare meeting, an account of a match between
the gentlemen of Glasgow and Forfar, a
hundred years ago, for £lOO the match and
a guinea a battle. Glasgow won the main by
two battles, while Forfar took the byes by
one battle. It is added in conclusion that
the gathering was “small but respectable.”
* :]: :|:
“Backwoodsman”: The turmoil over the
question of the Victorian standard bowl has
broken out with renewed frenzy. Though the
Victorian model is supposed to fulfil all
the standard requirements of a bowl, in many
cases it refuses to “draw” to the satisfaction
of players used to the straight-running boAvl,
and this is as much in evidence as ever. In
desperation the chairman of the boAvl-testing
committee has advised Vic. players to seek
their own remedy by asking to have an
opponent’s bowls tested if they consider them
unsatisfactory. Action of that sort, how-
ever. Avould be tantamount to that of a
wharf-laborer Avho informed a policeman that
his mates were busy pillaging cargo in the
hold, and would make the complainant just
as popular Avith other members of the
brotherhood.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Jesmond”: Large numbers of argonauts
(paper nautilus) have been washed up
Vic. beaches recently. The oldest inhabita t
here (Phillip Island) has never seen them
so plentiful, and never before have I found
live fish in the shells. The value of these
delicate shells has dropped from 30s. and
40s. a pair to nearer 10s., but the islanders
are content to hang on to their stocks,
knowing that within a year or two there
will again be a good market at the old
price,
:*c * ❖ '•*
“Boronia”: Inspired by advertisements in
The Bulletin, 1 asked for Australian
whisky at 12 different Westralian country
pubs. In nine cases I couldn’t get it. In-
difference, cussedness or what?
* * * . *
“Ironbark”: That lavender can be grown
in commercial quantities in Australia lias
been demonstrated by C. Denny, an English-
man, in the picturesque mountain country
of Lilydale, 14 miles from Launceston
(Tas.). He imported seeds from France,
and after three years sent a consignment
of flowers to England for distillation. Re-
ports were favorable, and now there are
eight acres in cultivation, with more land
being prepared; a factory has arisen, and
oil and by-products are being exported to
Canada, 8. Africa and Europe.
* * * *
“Eromeno”: If “Gregor” (B. 30/5,/’2B)
buys a Malay kris as genuine be use he can
see hammer marks, lie’ll slip badly. That
applies to all beaten metal work of the
Indies. One of the principal Brummagem
processes in making the fakes is a patting
all over with a machine-driven, round-headed
hammer.
* >i: *
“Phil P.”; The Norwegian whalers must
be well satisfied Avith their strike of oil in
Antarctic seas, as three more big factory
ships are to be put into commission for
next season’s operations. The Opawa. 9300
tons, an old Maoriland trader, and the
White Star liners Medic, 12,222 tons, and
Athenie, 12,300 tons, have been purchased
and are being fitted-out for their new job.
Last season the S. T. Nielson-Alonso started
her phenomenal take of 730 whales, yielding
9500 tons of oil, when only a fortnight out
from Hobart and filled up in nine weeks.
Australia was prominent in the old sperm-
whaling industry, but has shown no enter-
prise in this modern oil-field so close at
hand.
* * * *
“Chevroford” : The commercial traveller
who is using an aeroplane in Vic. has found
landing grounds in suitable locations few
and far between. He surprised Balranaid
by alighting in the main street. At Kyne-
ton he ignored the official ground and settled
in a small paddock handier to the shops.
His most thrilling experience happened st
Ararat. He had to rise hastily from that
neighborhood to avoid a bull.
* * if
“L.S.” : Send your rabbit-skins to one of
the wool and produce brokers to be sold by
auction. There is a fair chance of getting
an honest “go” from the classer, and that will
mean something near market rates for your
skins. Send to these “We don’t charge com-
mission” gentry and you will get a shock.
Last season a mate and I skinned, stretclie !
and forwarded on the same day to the same
Melbourne buyers in two parcels. I a\er-
aged 35., my mate 2s. Same skins exactly.
A few days ago my mate sent a first-class
parcel to another shark. He averaged 2s. Gd.
The market quotation was 3s. to 6s. If you
don’t object to hearing very bad language
make inquiries from others who have sold
skins to city sharks.
“L.S.L.”: White pine (Kahikatca) is
damned Avitli faint praise (B. 25/4/’2B), but
heart of kahikatea. is one of the most valu-
able softwoods in commerce, light, strong and
durable and quite impervious to borer. The
sapwood, used for butter-boxes, is scentless
and of a satin-smooth surface. A large tAvo-
storeyed house, built by my father in the
’seventies entirely of Avliitc pine, pit-sawn on
the spot (Auckland district), yielded up its
heart timber, on being pulled down a few
years ago, as sound as the day it was put in.
The sap was almost entirely destroyed by
borer. Most Maoriland timber will get borer
in the sap, but not in the heart. Pinus insig
nis is-attacked in both heart and sap; yet
our valuable native timbers are being re-
placed by it. White pine is now so rare as
to be almost unprocurable.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
“Au Fait”: The collecting of the elusive
instalment gives many a poor man a head-
ache. Mrs. I. O. Eavo seems to be able to
scent the approach of a collector for miles.
I knoAV one man who could never get the
door open until he bribed the baker. He got
his instalment paid that Aveek because he
approached the house with a shout of
“Baker!” and AA 7 ith the bread-basket on his
arm. Mrs. I. O. Ewe calls or sends for the
bread now.


Power of
Higher Compression
Tim Willys-Knight exclusive velvety smoothness
•■ , •
possible only with the Knight patented
sleeve-valve engine, which gives brilliant
and sustained performance.
The trend today is toward high
compression. The public has been
quick to appreciate the greater
speed and flashier activity effected
by the high compression motor.
But in many engines, high com*
pression presents serious draw*
backs—undue wear and tear on
the motor, and the need for special
gas to prevent knockingeven after
inconsiderable mileage.
Willys * Knight offers you all the
advantages of high compression
with none of the disadvantages
so conspicuous in other types
of motors.
Sustained Efficiency
Only the Knight sleeve-valve en-
gine, because of the fundamental
Drinciole of its desien. can give
highest uniform compression at all
times, at all speeds.
You always thrill to Willys*
Knight's surge of silent power,
smoothly and softly poured out in
an even, unfailing flow.
Protected by Patents
Most great advances in motor car
design rapidly become the property
of all automobile manufacturers.
The self-starter, lacquer finish, bal-
loon tyres and' four-wheel brakes
are found on many cars. But one
of the most notable improvements
of all time—the patented Knight
sleeve-valve engine—is still jealously
guarded by closely held patent
rights.
Drive a Willys-Knight, and your
enthusiasm will be added to that of
its present 300,000 owners.
[k
v\)
f
■mi
m §ass
s^,(a
aw
a:
HI
Spherical cylinder head and slid*
ing sleeves of patented Knight en-
gine have always provided the most
efficient compression chamber.
Exquisitely beautiful
new colors
Your choice of" many distinctive colors, both
in lacquer and upholstery. Colors thait are rich,
harmoniously blended, lastingly attractive.
NO VALVES TO GRIND «-* GROWS SMOOTHER WITH USE
WILLYS-KNIGHT
Overland Sydney, Limited 1 , 148 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Overland (Vic.) Pty., Limited, 117-121 Lonsdale Street Melbourne.
E. G. Eager & Son, Limited*, Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane.
Overland South Australia, Limited, Franklin Street, Adelaide.
Adams Motors, Limited, 442 Murray Street, Perth.
H. C. He&thorn & Co., Limited, 53-56 Bathurst Street, Hobart.


Under
Royal
Warrant
df
To H.M.
Kind;
George V
Vintage 1917. |
CHAMPAGNE <
Charles Heidsieck
imi
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
‘-V.
champagne
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
The Federal Mutual
C3(FO , Q!m
V
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation Act 1926.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors: R. Rawnsley Moss, Chairman; W. B. Ainsworth, Esq.; T. A. Magney, Esq.;
•S. Sampson, 'Esq. ; J. T. Turner, Esq.
Victorian I!;-anch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. li. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
<23
7he centre of Queens/anc/&
' cS/sSingu/sf>ec/ Soc/o/ Life.
mote I
RDICn
BRISBANE
Magnificent Bal 1-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attacnea. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
lelegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 57 80—10 Liner
c
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayers
SILK
GLOVES
It’s all settled, and the I)e Chairs are to
stay cosily at Government House for an-
other year. This means that they won't
leave Sydney till the beginning of 1030; and
who knows? —by that time something may
turn up to keep, them here till the opening
of the North Shore Bridge.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite, just fading
to coffee-color from the coal-black mammy
she was at the Artists’ Ball, discusses that
old-established ritual between applications
of cold-cream and sandsoap. She says that
for her the big show of the evening was
Priminister Bruce’s dancing. She'd only be-
fore seen pictures of him, and she couldn’t
associate the down-dragging lines of the
young man’s mouth and the spatted feet with
the jocund jazz. She classifies him as a
stylist but not much of a stepper, and thinks
that lie looked like an intellectual hang-
ing judge on ice-skates. Another joy-
diffuser was the skull-liunting and Byronic-
browed Radcliffe Brown, who disguised his
gravedigger propensities beneath the even-
ing clothes of a gentleman of the twentieth
century. His leading out of the Vice-Heine
made the Girl in the Flat visualise black
velvet and white camellias. But the grand-
ees who sat aloft and over the balcony
peered at the people much as Hamlet and
his Court might have viewed the strolling
players, and that was amusing, too. Ever
and anon some of these came down staidly
and in Nonconformist fashion danced past
the posters of naughty but diverting nudes
and politicians gone mad.
One prize should have gone to the lady
whose hat was a piece of toast with an egg
on it, and another to Dulcie Deamer’s
leopard-skin for consistency. That leopard
doesn't change its spots. It’s a permanent
resident at the Artist*’ Ball. Shudlded-
some to think w.hat the pelt would look
like were Dulcie a few stone heavier!
Charlie Westmacott, in a sombrero, looked
like a big. bad gunman from west of Ari-
zona : while D. 11. Souter, in his straw hat,
was younger than ever.
But the Artists’ Ball itself is growing
old. There were no pass-out checks, and
an attendant stood at the door of the com-
mittee-room and kept a tally of those who
went in. Unless a girl was positively under
the wing of a committeeman she couldn’t
even glimpse the bottles in Anne’s pantry.
Not that there weren’t plenty of bottles on
deck, and the friendly flask went round
nippily enough. Draught beer was served
in the basement, but the lads and lasses
gave it a miss in baulk; anything less eon-
ducive to breaking the pledge could only be
dreamed at a prohibition meeting.
Pity, though, since it was a Mifll Hatters’
Ball, that there wasn’t one real Alice in
V onderland to see the tin hares disport
among the seven thousand and one hats. But.
glory be, through the melee of Pompadours,
harem ladies, tinkers, tailors, soldiers, sailors,
Dolly Vardens, pierrots and gollywogs, there
was Erna Living, looking like a cross be-
tween an elderly Queen Victoria on a wet
day and a slightly sozzled charlady of the
same era, to mooch and beam ingratiatingly.
Alternately shaking a black brolly at tlie
pictured ladies and waving a flask' to show
that, though circumspect, she was no prude,
Erna frisked through the evening. And
from the moment she bewildered a town
hall official by sitting on the top step of the
civic fastness and drawing from her volu-
minous skirts a flask with the hiccoughed
remark. “Pension day. dearie!” the actress
Avas the bright spot of a three-candle-power
night.
A pair of knee-high boots made of ’pos-
sum skin defied the cold of the paddock
during last week’s polo at Goulburn What
a sensible idea ! And wouldn’t Brer Wallaby
be suitable in the same capacity? Also what
a business being a social somebody is ; how
expensive the keeping up with the pack!
Last Aveek all the smart-setters were in full
cry after the polo teams in Goulburn. Next
week Kensington Avill be the direction given
by our betters to the chauffeur. The Army-
in-India team, of course, is the thrill of this
years polo, and ice-cold mist and sleety
rain might be Miss Sydney’s favorite brew
judging by the eagerness with which she
swallowed quarts during the Goulburn
matches. For the smartest of her Avore her
mouth slightly agape, as is the new London
decree.
Most of the play Avas viewed from the
shelter of closed cars, and the Victorian
Bohemians were cheered in the strife by a
group from over the border, among whom
were Mrs. Winter Irving, Mrs. Claude
Palmer, Mrs. C. Kelly, Mrs. Keith Urquhart
and Pauline and Rhoda Robertson. From
South Australia came Mrs. Bray, and from
Canberra and Cooma and Sydney they were
in their dozens, not the least interested being
Mrs. James Ashton. Lady Mary Herbert
wore a rose leather coat and a red felt hat
over and above fawn checks on one day and
black tailorings with shamrock-green acces-
sories on another. Mrs. Leo Watson, whose
husband is president of the Goulburn Polo
Club, Mrs. Clive Robertson, of Victoria, and
Mrs. Tony Hordern were other prominent
lookers-on. Muswellbrook put on a polo
show of its own. This drew another bunch
of Sydney blossoms, among them Elaine de
Chair.
One painted hour of glorious strife was
enjoyed by the Housewives before the associa-
tion which has been the terror of the sugar
king and the milk adulterer had a hole torn
in it the other day. You who have visited
their meetings in the Assembly Hall of the
Education Building have seen the House-
wives meek and lowly. You have heard their
mild wrath about the preposterous price of
potatoes, have heard them take timid steps
to confound the unhygienic handling of food.
You have felt, perhaps in a superior way,
that the Housewives had good intentions but
lacked punch. And then last week they proved
they had a punch like Dempsey’s and a roar
like a fog siren. You felt that the scene
should have been enshrined at the Artists’
Ball when Portia (leach and her followers
stormed the platform to be valiantly held at
bay by its occupants. Internal politics was
the complaint, and the threat of a fire-
hose by a hastily-summoned policeman the
cure. Henceforward a new Housewives’ Asso-
ciation with Portia (leach as president has
its headquarters in Bligh-street.
In Sydney, when lie was Governor of
N. S. Wales, the just-dead Lord Carrington
was mostly attended by his nephew Rupert.
Rupert made hay while the sun shone, and
married the I lorsfall heiress of Widgiewa.
She has been dead some years. As Lord Car-
rington’s only son died of war wounds, poor
old Rupert succeeds to the barony—not to the
earldom: there is no successor there. Of
the five Carrington girls Myee was born in
Sydney and given a native name; Judith
Sydney Myee she was christened. Nowadays
she is the Viscountess Bury and not long
hence is liable to be the Countess of Albe-
marle.
An old Sydney resident who met Lord
Carrington first when he .was his Excellency
of N. S. Wales wrote of him from London
by a mail which arrived after the cables had
told of his death :
Lord Lincolnshire (The Bulletin’s old friend
Carrington), who completed 85 years of life on
May 16, is still as kindly and genial as when he
made so many friends in Sydney. Next month he
will celebrate his golden wedding, and he has
humorously expressed his wishes regarding that event
-—“No flowers, by request.’’ Since his inheritance
of the estate 60 years ago he has paid off the
£300,000 of debt with which it was then encumbered,
and when it passes to his Australian-born heir,
Rupert Carington’s son, there will be ample income
for its suitable upkeep. During his life at High
Wycombe he has planted more than a million trees
and improved the place out of all recognition, so
that he has very effectively mixed gaiety with
admirable service and won universal popularity as
a reward. Lildy Lincolnshire looks remarkably well
and still quite like the painting of her done so
many years ago on the lawn at Flemington.
Here is a May Moore picture of Carrie
Tennant, a t
present pro-
ducing one-act
plays at Bur-
dekin House
for the benefit
of the Turret
Theatre fund.
The idea, as
you know; is
to turn the old
council build-
ing at Milson’s
Point into a
live little
theatre for the
e ncouragement
of dramatic art
and the writ-
ing of drama.
Don Finley is
mainly respon-
sible for the
movement.
Joan Norton came of age one day last
week, and, according to programme, dis-
tributed 11 of her thousands to Sydney in-
stitutions. Only flOOO went to charity; Joan
handed the University £lO,OOO. The odd
thousand was divided in amounts of £lOO
and £5O among various charities for women
and limping soldiers. It was disappointing
that only £5O went to the fund for hard-up
journalists, for, after all, the Truth
heiress owes more of her fortune to the
penmen of yesterday than to the clever
handling of her investments by the trustees
of to-day. The generous girl’s first impulse
had been , to recognise the splendid work of
these gentlemen by asking each of them to
accept a cheque for some thousands, but they
shook their heads, whereupon Joan, not to be
cheated out of the luxury of giving, evolved
the other plan.
At 15 Beatrice Ainsworth, of Neutral
Bay, has just won an exhibition that gives
her three years
at the Royal
Academy. For
a start Bea-
trice won a
Beale Scholar-
ship. This
gave her three
years at Syd-
ney Con. with
Godfrey Smith.
Mrs. A. E.
Talbot held a
meeting in her
flat the Other
day—she’s the
Dean of Syd-
ney’s lady—to
consider plans
for a testi-
monial concert
to speed little
Fifteen on her
way to Lon-
don. And be-
cause Beatrice is a Northern Rivers
youngster Mrs. Earle Page, an old family
friend, is giving the farewell a strong lift.
May Moore’s camera caught the light on the
golden mop of hair.
If ever the Rector of St. John’s is con-
victed of pride it will be after he has over-
heard the exclamations of visitors over the
beauties of the nobly-planned college. At
the annual dance last week no pains had
been spared to make the floral decorations
worthy of the stately hall and stairway.
Green and gold were the color notes, and a
palm-decked way led from the entrance
to the foot of the stairway. Here ivy
twim d and rippled a quietly smiling way to
the high gold pedestals at the stair-head.
The ballroom was a hanging garden of yellow
roses, their warmth deepened by the golden
rays from massive bronze lamps. The Rec-
tor welcomed the guests, a task in which lie
was helped by Mrs. H. Moran and the
senior students of the year.
Only seven years ago “Scandal,” when pre-
sented at the Criterion by a company which
included Harry Roberts, shocked the staider
critics into cries of protest; but the second-
act bedroom scene, as staged by Leon Gordon,
hardly thawed the Royal on Saturday night.
Stirring moments still remain, of course; the
chocolates from at least half a dozen boxes
cascaded to the floor when Leon Gordon,
looking as if he meant it, announced to
May Collins his intention of forcibly un-
dressing her, and started operations by tear-
ing her shoulder-strap. There was, previous
to that, some almost audible blushing when
the French maid went into very French ecs-
tasies over the bed; and a gasp or two
came when May Collins proceeded to obey
orders and get into the rose-silk sheets.
But at this stage Leon Gordon knocks the
bottom out of all anticipations by abruptly
leaving the room. From one disappointed
flapper was forced the exclamation, “O-o-oh,
what a shame!” followed by a blushing
mother’s frantic appeal to her to hush!
are all doing it. Trans-Pacific flier
Kingsford Smith is just catching up with
the rush of divorce-seekers. Last week lie
filed his petition against the wife lie mar-
ried about four* years ago. Desertion is the
plea.
Pretty Mary Macrae and Roy Russel, who
are both appearing with Muriel Starr at
the Palace, have clicked, and are charmed
with the prospect of a life together. Mary
is a daughter of the Allan Joneses, of Tor-
rens Park, Adelaide, and the young man
comes from London.
Mrs. Grimsliaw —she’s Irish and a sister-
in-law of novelist Beatrice —goes back to
Port Moresby with her husband forthwith.
They’ve just returned from a furlough jaunt
to Europe. “We don’t find the New Guinea
climate upsets us at all,” Mrs. Grimsliaw
says, “and I’ve lived there for eight years,”
A radiant vision in grass-green ensemble
with one of the new straw hats of the
same tone, her pink and cream complexion
is the pride of Moresby.
One of the prettiest weddings that has
ever cheered the Synagogue in Elizabeth-
street was the linking up of oval-faced Raie
Isaacs, of Coogee, to Leon Solomon, from
the same suburb by the sea. Three rabbis,
headed by High-Priest Cohen, welded the
links. A small hoy in a pale-gold Kate
Greenaway suit solemnly followed the prin-
cipals, carrying a pale-gold satin cushion on
which blinked the pale-gold wedding-ring.
After him came another small boy in a pale-
gold suit and a small girl in an 1830 froth
of gold tulle, pantalettes, ankle-strapped
shoes and all. Then there were three grown-
up maids who swayed and rustled golden
beaded frocks in the procession. The bride
herself was simplicity in a snowdrift of
georgette and tulle.
The Chapel of Shore Grammar was flow-
ered in pink and white for the merging of
Tessie Halberg, youngest chick of the W.
Halbergs, of Wollstone.cr.aft, into Mrs.
Philip Ilarbutt, of Pymble. The ’groom,
an old Shore boy, was supported by brother
Warwick during the approach of his bride,
frocked in white velvet and silver-trained
White lace, through which glowed rose georg-
ettes, ruffled around the three ’maids; and
Marjorie Naish completed the procession
a little pink-and-silver note of admiration.
The bride’s home, Dana, was the scene of
tin' merrymaking.
Though Macquarie-street smiles so glori-
ously, tragedy lurks there oftener than in
any other thoroughfare of Australia. But
it came in quite a new guise the other morn-
ing when a three-months-old Queenslander,
Daniel Moriarty, was killed by a falling
window even as he smiled from the shelter
of his aunt’s arms at a dancing sunbeam.
The window, a steel-framed affair, fell 80
feet from the front of the Astor flats, just
opposite the Gardens, and the small boy,
whose mother was at the moment consulting
a near-by specialist, was crushed instantly.
The aunt, Mrs. Weston, of Kynuna, was
seriously injured.
Italy in Sydney, reinforced by members of
the Modern Languages’ Association, gathered
at Romano’s to welcome Donna Adelaide
Grossardi, wife of the Consul-General for
Italy, as the patroness of the Dante Ali-
ghieri Society. The Donna and her com-
mander husband, who have decided to change
their home from Melbourne to Sydney, were
plainly delighted at the enthusiasm of the
happy reception. The lady is slim and fair,
and wears diamonds with distinction, as wit-
ness the earrings that flashed beneath the
small sapphire-blue hat. Gold braid was
appliqued on her frock of the same deep
blue, and she made her speech in reply over
a presentation cluster of lily of the valley.
The wife of Professor Waterhouse and Mrs.
Ferrari Passmore did the honors, and Cap-
tain Baccarini, one of the society’s important
people, had at his table all the Consuls and
their wives and Civic Commissioner Fleming
and his wife.
Australia lost another war heroine by the
sudden death of Sister Nagle, of Albury,
whose father was at one time a solicitor of
the border town. Sister Nagle went away in
1914 with the first batch of nurses, and
served in Egypt, Palestine and France. She
was decorated with the Royal Red Cross by
Princess Mary, and on her return devoted
herself to baby-health work.
Agnes Murphy meets friends in London :
Gerald Marr Thompson, after a series of calls on
old musical friends all over Europe, is now in
England staying with a sister in Sussex.
The sale of Compton Lodge, the beautiful home of
the Butt-Rumfords in Regent’s Park, is but another
sign of the void left by the death of their son Roy.
With the marriage of Joy Rumford and the absence
of Victor in Rhodesia, there was likely to be little
call on its stately accommodation. It was at the
home of Sir Archibald and Lady Weigall that Joy
first met the Anglo-Indian medical officer to whom
she will shortly be married. .
The Ranee of Pudukota, Lady Loughborough and
Cicely Courtneidge were the three most prominent
Australian-born guests at the Rit-Kat Restaurant
supper to welcome back Sophie Tucker to the scene
of her earliest triumphs. The supper tariff was two
guineas per head, yet when Prince George and a
fair companion arrived the place was so crowded
that there was some difficulty in placing two seats.
Sophie Tucker is nowadays more than fat and 40,
but as a cabaret artist she is still one of the biggest
draws in London.
“THE BULLETIN’S”
Novel Competition
The first competition for the mini-
mum of £l7OO offered in prizes
by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. will
close on Saturday, June 30. Up to
Monday, June 25, 301 entries had
been received.
The five judges are making good
progress with the heavy work of
reading the MSS., and we have good
hopes that their decision will be
announced in August. This will
allow of the publication of the first
chapters of the first-prize story in
“The Bulletin” on September 5.
In preparation for this important
literary event Mr. H. K. Prior,
general manager of The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., is in \Vestralia,
where a branch office was this week
opened at 33 Barrack Street, Perth;
and a South Australian office will
be opened next month in Adelaide.


A. SAUNDERS’
PRESENTATION
SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
A. SAUNDERS’ Real French Briar Pipe. Silver Mounts.
8/6, 12/6, 15/6, 21/-
A. SAUNDERS’ Ante-
lope Tobacco Pouch.
Best English Rubber-
lined Silver Shield, 10/6
Gold Shield, 15/-, 20/-
Square shape same
WE
PAY
POSTAGE
5*
A. SAUNDERS’ Cigar and Cigar-
ette Combination Case, Sterling
Silver, handsomely engraved, 70/-
With Gold Shield, 80/-
-
A. SAUNDERS Smokers’ Com-
panion, Cigar Holder, Match
Box and Ash Tray. Pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, 30/-
A. SAUNDERS’ “Cigarette Box,”
Sterling Silver, Cedar lined, to
hold 100 cigarettes. Plain de-
sign, £5/5/-. Engraved Ribbon
design, £5/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY,
Chocolates
“f do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home!"
The Famous Red Box of Chocolates.
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6.
20/- and 30/-
I’ost free to any address fn Australia.
162-66 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES :
CR. GEORGE AND lilNu
STREETS;
CASTLE RE AG R STREET
(Next Theatre Royal),
GEORGE STREET
(Next Regent Theatre),
SYDNEY.
Send for Catalogue illustrates
with reproductions of our
confectionery in colors.
V-'
jgmi l
e 2&.
n:
wSSSl 1 !*:^
§■l
!f#lpll
■
me SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER-HARVESTER
12ft. Cut.
Self
Propelled.
4-Cylinder
Power Unit
Incorporated.
MS
Cuts Its Own
Tracks.
No Need for
Binder.
No Crop
Wasted.
Will rescue the grain from badly-lodged and thistle-infested crops
A xair day s work = 40 acres in a ten-bag crop.
The cost in fuel = 8 to 10 acres on 4 gallons of petrol.
Besides its efficiency in harvesting the standing crop, the Sunshine Auto Header-Harvester does splendid
work as a Stationary Thrasher at the stack.
Also the Engine is available for general belt work throughout the year.
Write for descriptive literature, price and particulars of extended terms.
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE
RD A MPUCC A Mr\ A
0 BRANCHES AND AGENCIES:
SMBourkeStreelWest, Melbourne. 102-105 North Terrace, Adelaide.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney. Cor. Murray & King Streets, Perth.
H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.


‘Allenburys’
Black Currant PASTILLES
| Protect the mouth and |
k throat against infections, J|
H allay irritating coughs |||
Jl; and clear the voice. Hit
Your Chemist stocks
them. 2/- and. 119
per box
§
m
M
m
s
w
v r
z z mu
rr~\
w
TRITON” Electric
Hot Water System
“TRITON” BATH HEATKR supplies hot water by turning on the
heater or wash-basin tap; that is all there is to do. THE
“TRITON” KITCHEN HEATER supplies continuous boiling water
for tea-making at any time of the day or night. If desired, the
one heater may be arranged to supply hot water at taps at the
kitchen sink, wash troughs, bath, shower and wash-basin, or heater
for the whole system be installed in the loft. THE “TRITON”
is a remarkably economical system—when once installed you won’t
dream of having anything else. Installations to suit any sized
home, hotel, hospital, etc.
“TRITON” ELECTRIC COPPER. The finishing touch to the
“Triton” System ! Just turn on the switch and let the copper
boil—no wood to cut or prepare, and no soaking necessary.
Full Particulars and Prices from the Manufacturers and Patentees,
THOS. ABBOTT & CO.,
McEwen House, Corner Elizabeth and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne. ’Phone: FJ/OJiZ. Corner Wynyard and Margaret Lanes,
Sydney. 11l Taranaki Street, Wellington, N.Z. AGENTS: A. C.
Clarke, 112 Gawler Place, Adelaide, S.A. Harris, Scarfe and Sand-
over, Ltd., Hay Street, Perth, W.A. W. 11. Knight and Peter Bros.
Pty., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston, Tasmania. James Campbell
and Sons, Ltd., Creek Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
J-Qt
J
‘R' e Finc/t Inland GdF
Link/ in Australia
Are to be found at the
finest Country Hotel
in Australia the
Management—G. M. Lievain
ROBERTSON
Inclusive Tariff, from £l/1/- per
day, and from £6/6/- per week.
Sydney Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street.
’Phone: 86491.
Melbourne
Chatter
All roads led to Moonee Valley racecourse
on Saturday, when sparkling sunlight took
the sharpness out of the breeze. It was a day
of cloth coats and tailored suits. Mrs.
Hogan, who accompanied the Premier,
topped a sealskin coat with a blue felt hat.
Mrs. Oscar Lempriere, who brought her
daughter, relieved a black satin ensemble
frock with a touch of jade. With Mrs.
Merson Cooper was Strella Wilson, of the
G. and S. Co. Mrs. W. Mortill, a study in
sapphire blue velvet, escorted Vere de Cris-
toff, of the grand opera co., charming in a
turnout of buff tones; and her husband in-
troduced the Marquis di Romanazzi to our
geegees. This Italian nobleman, who is
taking the opportunity of seeing Australia
while so many of his countrymen and
women are here, is a great racing man in
Naples, where his horses have carried off
many coveted trophies. Another visitor was
Mrs. de Burgh Iver (Phyllis Lett, the con-
tralto singer), who, accompanied by her hus-
band, has come from their station in Banana-
land on a health trip. The Bob Bruces,
Mrs. Alan Currie, Meta Power and
Mrs. Leslie Macdonald were local sports
who enjoyed the pleasant outing. Mrs W.
Rogers Thomson gathered up many friends
for afternoon tea in the members’ room, her
guests including Mrs. Fell and Mary, Mrs.
Ben Cliaffey and Mrs. Weston Pett.
The crowded audience at His Majesty’s
on Saturday night seemed rather taken aback
when the orchestral prayer on behalf
of George Rex put a full-stop to the per-
formance a few minutes after ten. “The
Daughter of the Regiment” supplied only
an hour and a half of enjoyment, but what
perfect enjoyment it was! Toti dal Monte
looked fetching as a soubrette, and equally
charming in her regimentals, her flowing tea-
gowns and the girlish blue-striped silk frock
of the last act. For the first time this season
the ban against encores was lifted, conductor
Bavagnoli willingly conceding a repetition of
the alluring minuet that is curtain-raiser to
act two. At the finish Toti’s smile was about
all that was visible above the floral offerings
showered upon her andl Ida Mannarini.
Amongst those who applauded Donizetti’s
most light-hearted opera were Mayor and
Mayoress Morell and Sheila, Mrs. Colin
Fraser, Dr. and Mrs. Strong, the De Burgh
Kers and Mr. and Mrs. Fritz Hart. Many
white-rabbit overalls made their appearance.
These are rapidly supplanting the formal
evening coat.
Fritz Hart carried home from His Majes-
ty’s on Friday night, after the performance
of his opera “Deirdre in Exile,” a pile of
laurel wreaths and the memory of a crowded
audience that did not stint its applause.
The one-act opera, with its weirdly-character-
istic orchestral setting, has been given in
Melbourne previously. Lilian Crisp, the
Deidre of the former performance, and Lilian
Stott, who played Lavarcliam, were seen in
these roles again, but the part of King
Conchubor was given to John Brownlee,
who made an effective entrance in a flowing
crimson velvet mantle worn over embroidered
raiment. Accompanying him were attendants
leading Irish wolfhounds lent by Miss Bruce
Reid. Lilian Crisp, who lately has been
appearing in G. and S. operas, made a win-
some figure in flowing gown and sapphire-
blue velvet robe. Heaps of flowers rewarded
the two ladies. In the forefront of the audi-
ence were Dame Nellie Melba, beaming lie"
approval, George Pearce and his lady, and
Mayor and Mayoress Morell, with Sheila.
“Carmen” finished so late on Wednesday
night that by the time flowers had been gath-
ered and the enthusiasm of a crowded house
had spent itself the orchestra had fled to
catch last trams, so there was no Anthem.
Luckily the Governor did not accompany
Lady Somers on this occasion. Giuseppina
Zinetti made an attractive and dashing Car-
men, who sported, in the last act, a white
lace mantilla floating over a pink frock spark-
ling with silver. The Davidsons were with
Lady Somers, who wore a velvet cloak over a
pink gown. Dame Nellie Melba sat hear by,
her cliincliilla-collared coat showing a glimpse
of a white frock with lots of crystal fringe.
Mrs. Allan Spowers and Major E. Ilenty
were of her party.
The scent of gum-leaves mingled with the
aroma of coffee at the Austral Salon one
afternoon last week, when members of the
Williamson-Melba opera c 0,., Mayoress Miorell
and the Italian Consul were the guests of honor.
The Italian colors floated amid greenery and
Iceland poppies, and tenor Walter Kirby,
having a knowledge of the language, was
host. The official greeting, verbal and horti-
cultural, given by Mrs. Quinnell, was a
lengthy ceremony, as the guests arrived in
twos and threes. Nevin Tait. accompanied by
his sister Mrs. Scott and Claude Kingston,
was the first in. Hina Spani, Lina Scavizzi,
Arangi Lombardi and Aurora Rettore were
smartly coated in black. Vere de Cristoff,
who came with Mrs. Mortill, supplied a
brighter note with an ensemble of fawn
stamped velvet and a fancy straw hat of
darker hue. Signor and Signora Granforte,
Mr. and Mrs. Browning Mummery and Signor
Minghetti completed the roll-call. Vocal and
instrumental items provided entertainment.
Ruth Portrate, a Queenslander with a pro-
mising dramatic soprano voice, Molly Mackay
and Joe Foster were the most successful of
the singers. Edith Harrhy Doby did double
duty as accompanist and solo pianist. The
Ilennessy and Weedon ladies, Robert Knox,
Mrs. Knox, whose black velvet coat had lynx
collar and cuffs, Sheila Morell, Dr. Nyulasy,
Major Drake Brockman and Colonel E. Pot-
tinger were in the throng.
For Newman College’s annual dance St.
Kilda Town Hall was decorated with tavern
lanterns and drapery, the cherry and royal
blue of the college providing the color-scheme.
Bryan Mahon and Arthur Munday again
stage-managed the show, which had mostly
youthful patronage. The Cussen lady, wear-
ing black georgette which veiled sprays of
ribbon flowers, was hostess, supported by
Miss N. Egan, whose black robe had lines
'of scintillation. Posies of roses rewarded the
two for their good services. Among official
guests were the rector of Newman, Father
Murphy and Father Ryan; the Warden of
Trinity, J. C. V. Behan, who was accom-
panied by Mrs. Behan in brocaded robe in
tones of rust and gold ; Prof, and Mrs. Scott
she in taffetas of fuchsia hue sprinkled with
petals ; Mr. and Mrs. P. F. O’Collins ; Lieut.-
Colonel J. A. Clarebrougli, president of the
N. C. Old Boys’ Association, and liis wife.
Among the unattached, Doris Ryan arrested
the eye with a mauve taffeta frock that had
a dado of deeper-hued velvet blossoms above
a tulle hem. Noreen Farrell struck an
original note with a gaily embroidered bird
perched on the centre-front of a cream taffeta
gown. Madge P.reheny’s blue gown gleamed
with silver embroidery, and Patty Wilson
wore blue ear-rings with a frocK of pink and
blue.
Fritz Hart, pictured here by May Moore,
was well in the limelight last week, when
his one-act opera “Deirdre in Exile,” was
put on by the Williamson-Melba Opera Co.,
under the baton of the composer, as a
curtain-raiser to “Pagliacci.” Mr. Hart
first saw Australia in 1909, when he came
here from Lon-
don as con-
ductor of the
Firm’s “King
of Cadonia”
company. lie
remained with
the William-
son organisa-
tion for nearly
three years,
and later
took over
from the late
Marshall Hall
the direction
of the Albert
street Con.,
the loading-
vocal school
in these parts.
He started liis
musical
career as a
Westminster Abbey chorister, receiving
training later at the Royal College of
Music, of which he is a Fellow. The stage
claimed him for a while, and he made
several successful appearances in comic
opera, on one occasion taking part in a com-
mand performance at Windsor. He is a
prolific composer, especially of choral music,
and a conductor of ripe experience, of
which, in these days, the Melbourne Sym-
phony Orchestra gets the benefit. In the
grand-opera sphere he is quite at home,
as he has conducted several performances in
which Dame Nellie Melba headed the cast.
A cherished memento of that association,
given him by the diva, is the mirror she used
in making up.
The Overseas League, which intends
to establish an up-to-the-minute club-
room in Chartres House in Collins-street,
extracted some of the sinews of war from
its annual ball at the Embassy on Thursday
night. Wearing a gown of powder blue
beneath a silvery coat, Mayoress Morell,
president of the dance committee, was present
with her daughter Sheila. The chairman of
the 0.L., H. H. -Smith, M.L.C.. came with
his wife, who featured silver pailettes on a
lilac-toned robe. A hem of cerise hue was
visible beneath the mauve flounces of Miss
A. L. S. Russell, who shared secretarial
duties with Miss F. M. Hughes, clothed in
black. Miss E. Nichols, with a sparkle of jet
on a black frock, had charge of the purse.
Nearly £4O was returned from the quaint
goodsvended by Mrs. W. M. Robins, arrayed
in gold lace, Mrs. Russell Gabb, in beaded
covering, and Mrs. R. Fitclier, whose white
gown bore embroidery of pearls and coral.
Mrs. Thomas Baker and her sisters, the
Misses Shaw, were among the dancers, also
Mrs. W. Carnegie, attractively clad in mag-
pie contrast. Mrs. Cleve Kidd’s green fussy
frock brought a breath of spring into a night
of fog and chill, and Mrs. Gordon Hope wore
an Arctic effect of white that twinkled icicle-
like with rhinestones.
Winwick. one-time home of the late Alfred
Deakin and now, much enlarged, the resi-
dence of his daughter and her husband, Her-
bert Brookes, was the scene of the first tea
gathering in honor of Maude Royden. The
gifted lady 1 !,
who put into
Me lbourne
from Canberra
that morning,
and is here
seen smiling
her approval
of this city,
was deluged
with flowers,
and almost
overw helmed
by interview-
ers, but she
found time to
pick a bit of
lunch with her
committee at
the Lyceum
Club. At the
tea party later
in the day, Dr.
A. Deeper was
deputed to welcome Miss Royden, the host
supplementing his remarks. Mrs. Brookes,
whose black gown and hat had relief of
petunia and mauve, handed roses to the slim,
small visitor, whose brown expressive eyes,
fine teeth and genial manner impressed
everyone. Wearing a deep apricot-hued
taffeta frock of fashionable length with some
cream lace extras and a black velvet hat,
the guest said her thanks briefly and even
gaily. Violet Somerset sang French songs
to the accompaniment of William Burrell
between waves of chatter. The gathering
was representative of church and society
circles, with a fair smattering of social
workers. During Miss Royden’s stay in Mel-
bourne she is the guest of the Warren Kerrs,
at Ivew.
Orchids decorated the banquet hall of the
Town Hall for the civic welcome to Miss
Royden. When the hand-shaking was over
there was talk over teacups, but no speech-
making. Miss Royden’s raiment of black
satin was covered by a fur coat and topped
by a black velvet hat. Mayoress Morell,
who wore an ensemble of cigar-brown tone
with a lighter colored felt hat, handed the
visitor a posy dangling pink ribbons. The
Mayor had the support of clerics of various
denominations. The day being foggy and bit-
terly cold most of the feminine welcomers
Wore furs or other wraps. The Weedon
lady gave the gathering a dash of color with
a geranium-red frock allied to a vellum-hued
felt hat. Sheila Morell covered a brown
costume with a beaver fur coat. Mrs. Harry
Emmerton and her niece Mary Emmerton,
the 11. 11. Smith couple, Mrs. 11. I. Cohen
and Mrs. Edward Bage were there.
The E.-S.U. laid covers for many at
Scott’s on Friday in honor of Maude Royden,
and in the afternoon Lyceum Club members
partook of tea and cake cn masse to pay
tribute to the gifted preacher. The lady, who
seems taller on the stage than off it, had
full houses for her first two lectures, and
the mingling of shrewd commonsense ,toler-
ance and insight, made her many friends.
Melbourne has decided that she is anything
but a wowser.
The younger-set group that engineered a
dance-bridge party in aid of the Austin Hos-
pital at the Malvern City Hall on Friday
night made a complete success of their ven-
ture. Margery Van Cootli, in sunset pink
veiled with silver lace, was hon. sec. Other
organisers were Edna Tabart, with dewdrops
scattered over a poppy-red frock; her sister
Pixie, wearing black; Ivath Rogers Thom-
son ; Valerie Ilennessy, in a soft glow of
pink; Nancy Scarlett and others to the
number of 15. Mayor and Mayoress Wilmot,
of Malvern, Mr. and Mrs. T. A. Tabart
and the Stewart Turnbulls were among the
patrons. Pretty maidens in dainty frocks
were there in battalions. Billy Wischer
simulated a fairy in shaded pink tulle frills ;
Sylvia Knox Knight set off her fairness
with a white gown that sparkled; Molly
Neil’s red frock trailed its flounces on pea-
cock lines; and Lynette Dickenson and Bar-
bara Bryans made a happy choice of apple
green.
The old girls of the Methodist Ladies’
College mustered 500 dancers at their annual
hop at St. Kilda Town Hall last week. Mrs.
E. E. Carter, president of the Old Gou
legians’ Club, sported an amber gown giov
ing with embroidery of gold bead ,
Olive Dodd, the hon. sec., wore black, trauea
over with silver thread. Mrs. J. G. 1 iomp
son, who combined lace and tulle of t
line pink in her attire, and Miss A. ’
in delphinium blue, scattered with silver
beads, joined forces as hon. sec. oi tne
dance.
An off-shoqt of the old Repertory Society
the Playwriter Company made its nrsc
appearance at the Allied Societie.- *
on Thursday, when four short plays
Melbourne writers were presented 4 fsaDU
Handley was responsible for a comedy, -Lecn-.
nique,” and a fantasy, “A Columbine Cure ,
Catharine Boyce presented a tabloid drama,
“A Frontier Incident,” the scene of whica
is the Indian-Afghan border, and Ann Cop-
pinger (Mrs. Apperly) gave further spice
of variety w r ith “Local Color, ’ a little Irish
picture that contained plenty of humor and
in which the author played the principal
role very charmingly. The pieces were
capably staged and, in general, well enough
acted. In rehearsal at present is -V ie
Touch of Silk,” by Betty M. Davies, which
is to be produced in August w r ith other local
efforts.
“The Patsy,” a little American comedy, more
wholesome in atmosphere than the general
run of such productions in these days, had
its premiere at the King’s Theatre on Satur-
day night. Irene Homer, the slight young
leading miss, was given a good reception,
and had to make a speech at the final cur-
tain. In the audience were Mrs. James
Purves, her daughter Valerie, looking pret-
tier than ever snuggled into a pink velvet
coat; the Merson Coopers, Mr. and Mrs. J.
Graham, the Leslie McPhersons, Mrs. Phil
Finkelsteiu and her daughter, and George
Tallis, castin- an appraising eye over the
Firm’s most recent importation.
“Seven Iveys to Baldpate,” which was one
of the most popular comedies of the
Fred Niblo season of some years ago, was
given a successful two nights’ season last
week by the Ormond College Dram. Soc.
Monty Grover’s youngest daughter, June,
was married at Christ Church, South Yarra,
to black-and-white artist Alec Gurney, who
hails from the Apple Isle, and is now on the
staff of a Sydney newspaper. The bride,
yet in her teens, was a dainty figure in
white tulle flounces attached to a satin
bodice, with accessories of tulle veil and
sheaf of blooms. Her second cousin, Molly,
a daughter of General Parnell, ’maided in
a frilled frock of primrose hue. Only
friends of the young couple were at the sub-
sequent tea party at the new home of the
Grovers.
A curious chain of accidents followed the
casting of a wreath from the Southern Cross
on the site of the proposed war memorial in
the Domain. In throwing the emblem Ulm’s
hand grazed and bent the propeller of one
of the wireless generators. This set up a
vibration which threatened the stability of
the machine. The only thing to do was
to disconnect and drop the generator. This
was done. The heavy apparatus fell in the •
centre of the Donnybrook railway-station
platform, from which a fair crowd of startled
people were staring at the fliers. En route
it broke the main trunk telephone wire be-
tween Melbourne and Sydney. Incidentally,
the wreath which started the trouble fell
a good 75 yards from its object and had to
be picked up and carried to the site by a
bystander.
The Hobson family, once of this city but
now living at Ealing, have given daughter
Nina Patricia into the keeping of Cap-
tain E. K. Wood. The ceremony took place
last month in London. The new member of
the family is a son of Colonel and Mr 3.
Wood, of Scarborough, but the young couple’s
first home will be in India, where the cap-
tain is on service with the Guides’ Cavalry.
The Red Cross is now reorganising the
voluntary aid detachments of women to meet
the requirements of the Defence Department.
Two classes of workers are being called for:
immobile members, not younger than 18, who
will undertake service within reach of their
homes; and mobile members, who must be be-
tween 21 and 40 years of age, and who must
be ready to do their bit with any unit of the
forces at home or abroad. Women willing to
help when their country calls will get all
information from the hon. sec. of the Vic.
division of the Red Cross, Miss A. Murray
Fortune, Latrobe-street.
Mrs. Merson Cooper’s flat at Cliveden
Mansions was invaded the other daiy by phil-
anthropists anxious to raise money for babies
at St. Anthony’s Home, Ivew. A dance and
bridge party at Cliveden on July 10 was de-
cided on. Mrs. C. .T. McCarthy is one of the
ticket secretaries, and her ’phone number is
Ilaw. 3679.
Pianist Harold Elvins has been selected
by Dame Nellie Melba to undertake the first
musical training of her only grandchild,
Pamela Armstrong.


COMMONWEALTH LOAN.
Interest 5i% Issue Price £9B/10/-
7 or 14 years.
Commonwealth 5 p.c. Bonds and Stock Maturing
on 15th September, 1928, may he changed into
Securities of this New Loan.
Persons thus converting will be paid, within two days of
receipt of application, a bonus of £l/10/- for each £lOO converted.
Persons having either small or large sums available for invest-
ment are reminded that:—
Money lying idle is wasteful; an immediate invest-
ment should be sought.
As small a sum as £ 1 0 can be put into Common-
wealth Loans.
No investments are safer than Commonwealth
Loans.
These investments can be sold at any time on the
Stock Exchange, if necessary.
As the issue price of the Loan now open is
£9B/10/-, an average annual return of
£5/10/3 can be secured for a seven-years’
investment, and £5/8/1 for 14 years.
Interest is Free of State Income Tax and runs
from the date of lodgment of money.
Full particulars from—
Banks, including Savings Banks, Money-Order Post Offices and
Members of Stock Exchanges,
EARLE PAGE,
Treasurer.
Commonwealth Treasury,
CANBERRA, F.C.T.
m
As.
Y&zp fie fmrnWy
wffii Eimo |
Good health is the greatest prize in the world, and it
often depends upon one small but very important
thing; the regular clearance from the system of
the waste products of digestion. The neglect of
your “inner health” may lead to the most
serious illness.
Yet how easily and pleasantly ENO over-
comes this danger. For generations the
pleasant, health-giving practice of taking
a glass of water sparkling with a dash of
ENO first thing every morning has been
passed down from father to son, and
from mother to daughter. Keep good
health in your family; have a bottle
of ENO always in the house.
Prepared ontv by
J. C. ENO, LTD.
London, England.
Sales Agents: The
British Harold F.
Ritchie & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
SJJOr
IN
TWO SIZES
at Chemists
and Stores
THE WORDS " FRUIT SALT ” AND ENO AND THE LABEL ON THE PACKAGE
ARE THE REGISTERED TRADE MARKS OF J. C. ENO, LTD, LONDON, ENGLAND
Aertiplane - Expert ence -Builds
-Plant/
f
%
m
ft.m;
%
m
'ft*
an
ss»
&
*8
r
sz
4>
4’
ft
S O \
■ /
<>
CAppointment
to HM THE KING
BOULTON & PAUL LTD.
Norwich, Eng.
HOME LIGHTING
AM® POWER PLANT
you know that one or the world s largest aeroplane
VV makers also builds an electric light and power plant, you
know that it must be something different—vastly superior. You
expect that it will be built with the same precision and care
that are exercised in aircraft manufacture. And when you
examine Electolite, you’re not disappointed!
All the experience gained in building about six thousand aero-
planes during the past twelve years, and of manufacturing
numbers of Electolite plants for the British War Office for
arduous war-time service, is incorporated in Electolite.
It is the strongest, simplest, longest-lasting plant ever offered in
Australia. It supplies ample power not only for lighting, but
also for operating an electric iron, vacuum cleaner, refrigerator,
milking machine, separator, churn and many other labor-saving
devices both in the home and on the farm.
And, above all, it is low in price, and so economical that many
users claim it to cost less than city electricitv. Let us send you
literature giving complete details, without obligation on your part.
GENEROUS TERMS MAKE PURCHASING EASY
EDMUNDS BROS. & CO.
187 a Flinders Lane, Melbourne, G.P.O. Box 683
154 Castlereagh Street, Sydney: 3 Gilbert Place, Adelaide.
Box D 147 G.P.0., Perth. Box 1139 P G.P.0., Brisbane.
Resident Factory Representative: R. R. Foulser, 154 Castlereagh St., Sydney.


W. JNO. BAKER
COUNTRY POCKET KNIVES
*
1 84— Baker’s Six. Specially designed
for use among stock. Six Blades.
Finest quality and finish. Stag
Haft. Size 3-jin., 19/6. Larger
size, 4in. Haft, 22/6 each. Post
Free.
I
&
m
i
185— Baker’s Five. Specially designed
for use among stock; 5 Blades.
Finest quality and finish. Stag
Haft. Size l7/6. Larger
size, 4in. Haft, 19/6 each. Post
Free.
sd
15 O—W. Jno. Baker Station or
Farmer’s Knife. in. Stag Haft,
12/6. Larger size, 4in. Stag Haft.
Price 13/6 each. Post Free.
fsd
6006—Three-blade Stock, with Cas-
trating Sheep and Long Skinning
Blade, 3|in. Smooth Horn Handle,
8/P each. Post Free.
m
IPWWI
'j o i — -strong** Grip Stag Haft, Skin-
ning, Castrating Blade, 3-Jin. Haft,
7/6 each. - Post Free.
NAME ENGRAVED on any of
the above, 1/-
New Edition Catalogue , Post Free to
Country Address.
W. JNO. BAKER,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Cuticura Baths Comfort
And Refresh The Skin
Cleanse and freshen your skin
by bathing daily with Cuticura Soap.
If there are any signs of pimples,
redness or roughness follow with a
gentle application of Cuticura Oint-
ment to soothe and heal. Cuticura
Talcum, smooth, cooling and
fragrant, is the ideal toilet powder.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is.and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney,N.S.W.”
SSlc.'"' Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
*
XHXftHM
★ ★ ★
Nosawvr NHor
JOHN jameson *** Whiskey is made in
Dublin, by the old and expensive Pot
Still method—as we made it in 1780.
That’s how we get the flavour, the
glorious smooth John Jameson flavour.
Yet we sell it at the price of an ordinary
whiskey—But taste the difference i
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
B. Seppelt & Sons, Limited .... Melbourne Victoria
Perkins & Co., Ltd Brisbane, Q.
Milne & Co Perth, W.A.
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
f
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
givs service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Bmldir.
(Next G.P.0.).
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
HUGH WALPOLE’S NEW NOVEL.
Wintersmoon
Dominions Edition.
Oxford Magazine : “A most remarkable book.
An excellent story, full of mature wisdom.
The analysis of motive and insight into char-
acter are subtle and profound. Green Hattery
withers at its touch. It is the true sanity of
modern fiction.”
ENGLISH MEN OF LETTERS.
New Vol.
Anthony Trollope
By HUGH WALPOLE. ss. net.
Collected Poems of Thomas
Hardy
With a Portrait. New Edition
(1928), Bs. 6d. net. Thin Paper
Edition. Cloth, Bs. 6d. net.
Leather, I Os. 6d. net.
This new edition contains ‘‘Human Shows.”
The last published book of poems;
The Statesman’s Year Book
for 1928
Edited by M. EPSTEIN, M.A.,
Ph.D. With Maps. 20s. net.
The Daily News: “‘The Statesman’s Year
Book’ is an inexhaustible store of information
about every country in the world, even to the
smallest islands. There are 1520 pages crammed
full of details.”
A Survey of Socialism:
Analytical, Historical and Critical.
By F. J. C. HEARNSHAW, M.A.,
LL.D. 1 ss. net.
Daily Mail : “Professor Hearnshaw’s book
deserves the careful attention of all interested
in the welfare of this country. It is forcibly
written, clear, and based on extensive study;
moreover, it is the work of a fair-minded
critic.”
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN <& CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, \V.<\2.
Public Notice.
SYDNEY EUCHARISTIC CONGRESS
THE Accommodation during this period will be
unprocurable. Intending visitors should at once
make provision for this. We have arrangements with
many hotels and boarding-houses in and around
Sydney at tariffs to suit all pockets. These are filling
fast. For further information write to
ADVANCE ACCOMMODATIONS, LTD.,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALASIAN ACCOMMODATION SPECIALISTS
Missing Friends.
BERTRAM KlSCH.—Write to R. Myers.
49 Wharf Street, Kangaroo Point, Bris-
bane. Your advantage.
TIM ANDERSON, late Atherton Tablc-
J land, communicate sister Upper Barron.
Important. Policy not paid.
MRS. ANNA MARIA ROSS. ~
■"THE present address of MRS. ANNA
MARIA ROSS (nee Wolfenden), widow
of DAVID WILLIAM ROSS, who died at
Marrickville. Sydney, in 1914, or of tlieir
children THERESA ROSS and ALICE
ROSS is required by
THE TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS AND
AGENCY COMPANY, LIMITED,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HTO GEORGE HARRY MAW formerly of
Adelaide in the State of South Aus-
tralia and of Melbourne in the State of
Victoria but now of parts unknown. TAKE
NOTICE that a Petition for Divorce has
been issued in the Supreme Court of Vic-
toria by JOHN PATCHETT of Albion
Street West Brunswick in the said State
against his wife FLORENCE ELIZA
PATCHETT on the ground of her adultery
with you. AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that unless you enter an appear-
ance in the office of the Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court in William Street Melbourne
on or before the twenty-first day of July
1928 the case may proceed in your absence
and you may be ordered to pay costs.
GORDON IIENNICK. LL.B., of 396
Flinders Lane, Melbourne, Proctor for the
Petitioner.
Legal Notices.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 TASMANIA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO VIDA WINIFRED LARTER formerly
of Launceston in Tasmania.
WHEREAS a Citation has issued out of
this Court citing you to appear and answer
the Petition of Errol John Larter for dis-
solution of his marriage with you on the
ground of desertion, TAKE NOTICE that
unless you cause an appearance to be entered
in the Registry of the said Court at Hobart
on or before the 27th day of July next to
answer the said Petition the Court will
proceed to hear the said charge proved and
pronounce sentence your absence notwith-
standing.
A. G. BRAMMALL,
Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.


UNIVERSAL Electric Appliances
are Indispensable to the Housewife
sdf
sd
fsd
fs
YOU DON’T KNOW WHAT
A CLEAN HOME IS UNTIL
YOU HAVE USED A -
UNIVERSAL
SUPER-VAC CLEANER
It thoroughly cleans your rugs, mattresses, draperies and furniture, at
a nominal cost. Arrange a demonstration or write for full particulars.
Prices from £ll/15/-
DO YOUR IRONING
WITH A
UNIVERSAL
ELECTRIC IRON
df
and do it in half the time. It is cheaper to use too, because a large
heat-storage capacity permits much of the ironing to be done with
the current turned off.
E 39026 22/6
E 909 (Wrinkle Proof) 32/-
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD
279 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
Amusements,
C ■'* I* I R E T H E A T R B,
“ Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Thursdays & Saturdays, 2.15.
Great New York Golfing Story,
TOP HOPE.
With Van Lowe, Renee Dixon, Blanche Jones, Russell
Scott, Audrey Lewis, Fred Bluett, Violet Elliott
and All-Star Cast.
The Famous Empire Pony Ballet and Beauty Chorus.
Week Nights: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6, 7/6. Sat. Nights: 3/3,
5/6, 8/6. Matinees: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6. Children: 1/-,
1/6, 2/6. Reserves: Theatre, MAIOOO, and all city
Booking Offices.
5$ Y 1) N E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES i
J, C. WIT.LTAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
PRINCESS CHARMTNG.
ROYAL: SCANDAL.
CRITERION: OUR BETTERS.
PALACE: NICE PEOPLE.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivrli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
E» EGENT THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUS THEATRE
Presents
WINGS
A PARAMOUNT PICTURE,
With CLARA BOW, RICHARD ARLEN and
CHARLES ROGERS.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-
WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SHAKSPEARE.
In preparation: “Henry IV.” (Parts I and II),
“Richard II.”
In Season, MAJESTIC THEATRE, NEWTOWN.
Sydney Rep.: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229, Sydney.
’Phone: MA1277.
T oW N HALL, SYDNEY.
Direction E. J. Gravestock, Ltd.
SATURDAY, JUNE 30.
Also
JULY 3,5, 7.
WORLD’S GREATEST BOY PIANIST,
SHURA
CHERKASSKY
CHERKASSKY
CHERKASSKY
who has created such a furore in the world of music
by his extraordinary talents, and phenomenal pianistic
ability. Although only 16 years of age, he has a
technique that leaves his audiences breathless from
wonderment, and truly amazed before the mani-
festation of a power greater than they can com-
prehend.
PLANS AT NICHOLSON’S.
Amusements.
.1 C. WILIiIAMSO N, I/ll)..
%Mm MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: GRAND OPERA.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE GIRL FRIEND.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
ROOKERY NOOK.
KING’S THEATRE: THE PATSY.
A
Tll E N UU M THEA X R E,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
E. J. CAIIROLL Presents
The Eminent London Actor Manager,
PERCY HUTCHISON,
In the Enthralling Three-Act Play,
THE LUCK OF THE NAVY.
H () v T’S D E LUX E THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
GRETA GARBO as
THE DIVINE WOMAN.
Also
A GIRL IN EVERY PORT,
With VICTOR McLAGLAN.
|y| AJESTIG THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
IVOR NOVELEO
and
ISABEL JEANS,
in
DOWNHILL.
Box Plan at Allans’ & Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790.
Victoria Racing Club,
FLEMINGTON.
GRAND NATIONAL
STEEPLECHASE MEETING.
SATURDAY, JULY 7:
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 11 :
THE TWO-YEAR-OLD MILE.
SATURDAY, JULY 14:
GRAND NATIONAL STEEPLECHASE.
Large Entries. Stakes Over £12,000.
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY, Secretary.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE .. .. .. 3d.
i Contains everything a woman needs to know.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Governor has been very busy attend-
ing school functions. He went, to Somer-
ville House accompanied by Lady Goodwin
and Miss Hine-Haycock. when the guard of
honor was composed of High School girls.
Misses Ilarker and .Jarrett, the principals,
received the. v.-r. party, and Audrey Mackay
presented bouquets. There was morning
tea in the study, an inspection of the swim-
ming pool and grounds, and much hand-
shaking and congratulation.
On the same day Sir John opened the Art
Society’s winter exhibition in the Public
Library building, which was decked with
palms and foliage. Lady Goodwin, Mrs.
Campbell and Miss Hine-Haycock were with
his Ex., and Stanhope Hobday met them
with welcome; she was assisted by Jeanette
Sheldon, who gave Lady Goodwin a posy of
wattle, and C. 11. Lancaster.
Lady Goodwin went, to sec the kiddies
sing and dance at the Creche and Kinder-
garten’s 21st birthday celebration in the
Exhibition Building. Irene Vanbrugh went
too, and both seemed to enjoy the young-
sters’ performances. Flowers were handed
to the guests of honor by two tiny tots.
The association has established six free
kindergartens, four cr&ches and a teachers’
training college in the last 20 years.
This is Jack Mulholland, who has just
put the coping stone on a brilliant Uni.
career by winning the Walter and Eliza Hall
Engineering Fellowship awarded every three
years to enable distinguished graduates to
travel abroad
and gain
further experi-
ence. Aged
24 and Gympie
born, he gradu-
ated in 1926
with first-class
honors and
joined the
engine ering
staff of the
Queens land
Irrigation
Comm ission,
maintaining
connection
with the Uni.
as tutor in
mathematics at
Ki n g’s, St.
John’s and the
Women’s Col-
lege. He leaves
for the United States in July to take a
post-graduate course in water supply and
sewerage engineering at Harvard, and will
spend most of the remaining time in Europe,
Egypt and India.
Maude Hoyden and Chave Collinson stayed
at Government House for the last two days
of their sojourn here. His Ex. and Lady
Goodwin gave a luncheon in their honor,
the other guests being Mrs. Ernest White.
Freda Bage, Miss Hine-Haycock and Colonel
and Mrs. Campbell.
Arum-lilies and gum-tips dressed up St.
Paul’s. Stanthorpe, for the marriage of
Ray Corden to P. Nagel. The pretty bride
was garbed in ivory taffetas with small
posies of orange-bloom on the tight bodice.
Her cut tulle veil was caught on each side
with orange-blossoms, and her ivory georg-
ette train was lined with pale pink. Her
bouquet was of white roses, lilies and maiden-
hair. Thelma Nagel and Thea Corden
maided in pale pink silk-net and black silk-
nets hats. They carried pink roses. Mr. and
Mrs. Cordon received at the Arcadia.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Commercial Travellers and Ware-
housemen’s dance at the Palais Royal on
North-terrace was under Mayoral patronage
during the earlier part of the evening and
opened very decorously. Mayoress Bonython
looked girlish in apple-green ring velvet.
She is a great dancer, and always appears
to enjoy herself. Later on there was a
good deal of romping and skylarking that
was not on the programme, but it was an
enjoyable hop, and is to be an annual affair.
E. W. Holden is president of the Mount
Osmond Golf Club, and on a recent Saturday
his wife gave an informal tea party for non-
golfing women just to show them what a
health-giving pursuit it is. They walked
round a few holes, enjoyed the view and
developed a wonderful appetite for afternoon-
tea.
There was a large gathering at the Town
Hall when the National Council of Women
welcomed Lady Hore-Ruthven with tea and
autumn decorations. The tea must have been
the main feature, because it cost three bob a
head. Mrs. T. R. Bowman, Mrs. C. R. Morris,
Miss Miethke and Miss Goode received first
the Mayoress and then the v.-r. party.
The guests of honor were presented with
posies. The gathering was more remarkable
for political interest than for frocking.
Orchestral music assisted digestion.
The Dean of Adelaide officiated at the
wedding of the late Archdeacon Hornabrook’s
son, Dr. Denys Hornabrook, and Mollie.
elder daughter of the R. .T. Rutherfords, of
Gilberton, which took place at St. Peter’s
College Chapel. The young couple’s home
is to be at Glenelg, where the bridegroom is
going into partnership with Dr. A. F. Stokes.
The Methodist Ladies’ College committee
held a social evening in the large hall one
night last week. The temperature was
Antarctic, and even those wise virgins who
came in woollies felt like frozen lamb below
the knee.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The country lias liad most of the recent
thrills —chiefly shows and smart weddings.
Campbelltown show, despite a showery and
chilly day, drew a good attendance, though
a good many well-known figures were
absent from the Longford district owing to
the funeral of the veteran landowner W.
H. I). Archer taking place the same day.
His Ex. gave the usual bright and cheery
address.
Women rolled ujp at the Imperial in
cohorts in response to the invitation of New
State Premier McPhee and the Nationalist
M’s.P. for Denison and Franklin. The idea
was that the successful —and other —candi-
dates should have an opportunity of person-
ally thanking the women who had worked
so hard on their behalf in the recent cam-
paign. Tables were set in the big dining-
room, and at the top table were seated, with
the candidates, Mrs. Mary Parker (president
of the Women’s Nat. Fed.), Mrs. Mary
Taylor (lion, sec.) and the members of the
executive. One-minute speeches were the
order of the day, so things were not allowed
to drag. Mrs. Sheppard’s orchestra made
sweet sounds in the intervals.
Longford saw the prettiest wedding within
the memory of its oldest inhabitant when
handsome Joan, elder daughter of Dr. and
Mrs. Arthur Hoskins, and Frank, eldest
son of the George Browns, Ellenthorpe, Boss,
took the plunge at Christ Church. The
bride has been one of the prettiest and most
popular girls in the North since she left
school. Her mediseval dress of white ring-
velvet, through which a silver thread was
woven, was made with long, tight-fitting-
sleeves, the only ornament worn being a
rhinestone cross on a long, thin, silver chain.
The train of silver brocaded lame fell from
the shoulders, and the white tulle veil was
bound on the head by latticed silver ribbon
embroidered in brilliants, with little clusters
of orange blossom at each ear. Three little
’maids followed the bride —her sister Molly,
Mollie Bain and Margaret Suitor (Melb.),
all three in ring-velvet in different shades of
coral, the skirts with a flared drape on one
side and long slight bodices. These were
worn with beige felt cloche hats with
appliques of velvet to tone with the frocks.
After the ceremony the bride’s parents enter-
tained at their home.
The doubtful condition of our sea com-
munications with the mainland in these days
robs us of any chance of hearing grand opera,
and we have to be content with home-made
musical comedy. The Launceston Operatic
Society made a great success with its three
nights’ season of “High Jinks” at the Theatre
Royal, and was followed shortly by the
Hobart Comic Opera Co. in “To-night’s the
Night.” The orchestras, were competent and
the singing was good.
Mrs. J. G. Mitchell, Etliam, Sandy Bay,
lias turned author and has produced a little
booklet of sketches in prose and verse. The
philanthropic little lady intends to devote
all proceeds from its sales to the Children’s
Home, Newtown.
WESTIiALIA.
Perth.
Flowery speeches were made by both
British and Japanese speakers at functions
arranged in honor of the visiting squadron.
English is studied seriously in the navy of
Nippon, and even the natty little seamen
who strolled about in orderly bunches seemed
to be able to talk and understand our lingo.
The most popular act of Vice-Admiral Kobay-
ashi was the placing of a wreath on the
partly-constructed war memorial in King’s
Park.
Prof. Nicholls, with his wife and daughter
Sylvie, entertained Prince Takamatsu and
some naval big-wigs at tea in the biology
wing of the University. The Prof, was one
of the three delegates from the Science Re-
search Council of Australia.who attended the
Pan-Pacific Science Congress in Japan in
1926.
Helen Ogden, whose picture is a product
of her own studio, is a Perth girl who found
it fascinating
to dabble in
hypo and de-
cided to make
a career as a
p li otographic
portraitist. She
got her prac-
tical training
in London,
where she
qualified as an
associate of
the Royal
P h otographic
Society, and
has now re-
turned to her
native city
fully equipped
to make sitters
look pleasant
both before
and after see-
ing proofs. Though she specialises in por-
traiture professionally, she is an enthusiastic
landscape photographer in her hobby hours,
and has many studies of London and the
English countryside on the walls of her
. new Perth studios. - -
Major J. W. Finlay and an efficient com-
mittee made a jolly day of the first annual
sports meeting of the Third Brigade, A.F.A.,
held at Guildford. The musical ride and
Balaclava melee were outstanding features
of a programme that included battery relay
races, mounted and dismounted tugs-o’-war.
battery alarm stakes, footraces and boxing.
Among the 400 present were Colonel Lamb.
Brigadier-General Bessell-Browne, Colonel
Wieck and his wife and Majors Rowell and
Cate, who also brought their better halves.
Popular .To Compton, who will marry Bill
Brown early next month, has been the'guest
of honor at many parties. Edna Noble
arranged a linen tea to which a swarm of
young things were invited, and Helen Murray
was another hostess, when each guest was
asked to bring something pink for the bride-
to-be. Among those at her tea-party were
Mrs. Frank Manford. Gwen Compton, Ele-
anor Barker, Emma Trigg, Joy Lathlain, Tup
Turner, Jean Good, Freda Weir and Katbb
leen Cadd.


CHRYSLER.
Utmost in Motor Car Value
The whole world knows how
Chrysler has won public prefer-
ence in every price field because
of vital developments in per-
formance, appearance, comfort,
dependability and long life.
And now this leadership be-
comes more emphatic than ever
by Chrysler’s new sensational
values.
Because of Chrysler’s unvary-
ing custom of stepping faster
than the procession, the world
today expects and receives extra
quality and extra value in every
Chrysler.
As confirmed by ever-climbing
sales which have lifted Chrysler
from 27th to 3rd place in vol-
ume of sales within 42 months,
the world is recognising that the
&s3K>y 1
%
m
is
m
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave (3 Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne,
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide,
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street. Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington,
Chrysler spirit of progressive-
ness positively assures this
extra value.
For it is this progressiveness
which, since the first Chrysler,
has continued to pioneer and
develop the worth-while im-
provements in motor car per-
formance and smartness for the
remainder of the industry to
emulate and imitate.
See the new Chrysler models —
“52,” “62,” “72” and Imperial
“80.” Study them in closest de-
tail and note how far they are
in advance of all competition.
Then make any test you wish,
yourself at the wheel. The more
exacting your requirements,
the more certain your choice
of a Chrysler.


South Australia’s Most Modern
Hotel is
Pipers
Hotel Richmond
128-130 Rundle St., Adelaide.
Now Open to Receive Guests.
Hot and cold water and telephones
in every bedroom.
Rooms with private bath. Every con-
venience for comfort of guests.
Tariff, inclusive Board, 22/6 per day.
Private Bathrooms extra.
A limited number single rooms 20/-
per day.
Telephone: Central 606.
W. A. PIPER, Proprietor.
/'d
N,
Sore Throat
is quickly conquered
by a few tablets of
fORMAMINT
The Germ-killing Throat tablets
At all Chemists.
Genatosan Ltd, Loughborough, Fngland.
05
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Capacity: Dining and Supper • Dances up
to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., TueSi, Wed., Fri., Special Dining 7.30,
12/0. Supper 10 p.m. till 1 a.m., 10/6.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 7.30 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.15 p.m.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret afternoon and evening.
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 6, 4/-;
parties of 6 upwards, 3/6.
Saturdays and holidays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
j Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M36G6.
1
It
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
THE SHRUG
By
FRANCIS OSBORN
THE antique-lace effect on the edge of
the third collar made Draycott pause—
he had plenty of time, before his
appointment with Enderby in the hall of the
Touraine at 7.15, so a pause here and there
didn’t matter. This taking of plenty of time
had been rather a characteristic of Maurice
Draycott’s since his return from France: a
negative characteristic, of course, but inde-
finite negation was his all-round effect. He
looked at the third frayed collar vaguely and
indefinitely before he dropped it listlessly to
join the other two. It didn’t matter. The
fourth collar was not quite so likely to saw
his head off before the end of Bill’s dinner as.
the others, and he straightened his back to
put it on—not that sawing his head off
would matter either, if you came to that.
His shirt was not too fresh, but he supposed
it would do; certainly he couldn’t be both-
ered to change links and studs and doll him-
self up for old Bill. Bill would have to
lump the stains on his waistcoat and coat-
collar, too ; he had another suit somewhere,
he believed, but
A sudden thought struck him: supposing
Bill turned up in evening clothes.... he had
said something about a show after dinner.
There might be ladies .. . . He stared
abstractedly round the shabby, untidy Dar-
linghurst bedroom, not in hope of enlighten-
ment as to the sex of Bill’s dinner, but
because his eyes happened to move casually
round the room. In a corner he saw the
trunk lie hadn’t opened for two years; there
was a suit, somewhere in it, he was sure.
He found the suit, but the silverfish had
found it first; and even Maurice could not
consider for a moment the wearing of what
was left of it. Beneath the rags he found
a photograph frame, a little; brown leather
frame face downwards in the: jumble at the
bottom of the trunk. Watching it he sat
back on his heels and let a vision rise up
before him. a memory of a long hospital
ward. The hospital was really a huge tent
on whose canvas roof the rain and pale sun-
shine had beaten. Maurice lay there in retro-
spect, the vicious pain biting and throbbing
in his chest, the awful nausea coming and
going like waves of the sea.. . . He picked up
the photograph and turned it over—a girl
in nurse’s uniform, her face sunny and
smiling and strong, the eyes firm and brave
in the handsome head. Her name was
scrawled across the picture: “Yours, ,Cecilia
Raven.” Maurice sighed as he put the
frame back. Life meant something in those
days which were so near to death ; she meant
something, too. But other days came in
between; and lie forgot and she forgot. And
1918 came, and this deadly apathy descended
on him.... He shut the trunk and went
back to the dressing-table. He couldn’t help
it if Bill was such a goat as to ask ladies:
he needn’t talk to them and they certainly
wouldn’t want to talk to him.
For the first time in two years he brushed
his hat before putting it on, noticing, for'
the first time in two years that it seemed
rather the worse for wear, rather shapeless
and greasy, in fact. He must brace up and
buy a new one. He had seen Bill’s specu-
lative eye travelling up and down him in
George-street that afternoon: perhaps he
thought lie was hard-up and that this dinner
was a deed of charity and mercy.... Vaguely
Maurice realised that a returned man with
£250 a year had no right to be loafing
round Sydney dressed like a tramp; Ender-
by’s speculative eye stuck in his memory
for a moment as he shuffled down the Mac-
leay-street steps into the ’Loo.
Maurice liked the ’Loo, in so far as he could
be said to like anything these days. The
descent into the lazy squalor appealed to
him far more than a business-like striding
along Darlinghurst-road and waiting for a
William-street tram. The latter method of
getting to the city had a disturbing, purpose-
ful air to him; he preferred, as now. to drift
gently into the, broken streets and alleys, to
feel the comfortable aimlessness about him,
the dirt, the muffled slumbrous noises, even
the fatigue and possible hunger of the long.
do-nothing day. The shabby figure uncon-
sciously walked more slowly as it found
itself in the familiar smells and tawdry
ruins; this dusty shoddiness seemed like
home, the lax and vagabond home of the
unfit, the useless, the unproductive wastage
of Sydney’s life.
Maurice Draycott, Croix de Guerre,
walked more and more slowly through it on
his way to the Hotel Touraine; crossing
Crown-street and entering the Lower
Domain he looked back over his shoulder
lazily and half-furtively at the huddle of
roofs and stained and dirty dwellings. A
pleasant come-day-go-day place—slipshod
and purposeless and pleasant.
To his faint annoyance Bill Enderby was
in a dinner-coat, spruce and quiet and
firm as always ; but to his relief there were
no ladies. No; of course, there wouldn’t be,
he remembered, thinking of his split shoes
and Bill's wandering eye in the afternoon —
Bill wouldn’t risk it. would lie? But there
was no suspicion of a critical eye in Bill’s
manner at dinner; on the contrary ho was
urbane hospitality itself, confining himself
absolutely to generalities and his duties
as host. In the hall he found two arm-
chairs, and gave Maurice a cigar; both
cigars lit, he turned to him and. dropped the
generalities and the urbanity together.
“What’s up, Maurice?” he asked.
Draycott’s tired eyes glanced at him.
“Up?” he said sleepily. “Nothing. Why?”
Enderby tried again, hitching his chair a
little nearer and forcing the tired eyes to
look at him.
“That’s not fair. Before the war you were
my friend and sometimes my colleague.” Bill
generally put things rather solemnly. ‘"We
played golf together; you dined with my
family. You had a place in Sydney, in the
legal and professional life of Sydney. You
were a coming man—one of the few coming
men. You joined up and went to France,
leaving a good practice, as I say. And you
disappeared. At the club we thought you
were dead—one of the missing who were
unconfirmed either way--and you were for-
“Some telepathic message
reached, the girl, and she
turned round and looked
at the disgrace fully
shabby man who was
making her so conspicu-
ous.”
gotten; the war ceased three years ago, you
know. And to-day I meet you—er —ambling-
along George-street.” Enderby’s rather hard
face looked squarely at Draycott. “And I
want to know wliat’s up,” he added crisply,
his peroration suggesting an ultimatum to
some client’s debtor.
Maurice did his best to dodge Bill’s eyes,
but unsuccessfully. "I don’t know that any-
thing is actually 'up,’ Bill,” he said, finally
and lamely. “I’ve been a bit fed up since I.
got back, i-f that’ll help you.”
He smiled vaguely, but Bill sat silent and
apparently waiting.
“You see.” Maurice murmured, his gaze
wandering round the Winter Garden and the
groups of clean-cut people drinking coffee,
“the Armistice was declared while I was
putting in my second go in hospital in
Blighty, and I mooned about Europe for a
couple of years”
Maurice’s voice mooned and murmured on
through a tale of drifting from town to town,
always alone, always apparently depressed
and half-ill, and always side-stepping the det'-
nite effort of getting on to a ship for home.
It was a feeble sort of tale without high
lights or low lights or any middle lights—
neutral and slack. Throughout its fumbling
wordiness Bill's hard face watched Maurice
and waited. Presently some gleam of the
Draycott of old would emerge, some flash
of the very “coming” young man he used to
know.
“Is it money?” he cut in sharply, to see
what a shock would do. But Draycott’s voice
slumbered on in monotone.
“No. I have a small income still —enough
to keep me. And I don’t spend much.”
Enderby sat back again, watching the
shabby, indefinite figure and listening to the
sleepy, indefinite, sometimes, whispered words.
Once Draycott looked up and caught tlie # ex-
pression on Enderby’s face; the gleam sh’one
for a lialf-second before it faded away again.
“You see, Bill,” lie said softly, “I’ve'lost
faith—l can’t be bothered any more. It
doesn’t seem to be worth it. I'm no good at
words —I hardly ever speak to anyone. But
tiiat seems to be the strength of it: it isn't
worth it.”
Bill said nothing.
“It’s very good of you to dine me and all
that sort of thing, but it's no good, you know.
I really shouldn't have come. All these
people here —they take themselves damn seri-
ously ; you’d think they meant something.
But they don’t; in a few years they’ll all
be dead with nothing done. They’ve got
' fathers or husbands or wives who are cleverer
thieves than”
Enderby stirred in his chair.
“Bolshevism?" he put in in the sudden
pause. “Well, anyway, that's something. It’s
a pretty rotten something, but at least there’s
a kick in it. Did you sign on as a Comrade
in Europe?”
Draycott made no reply ; and Enderby
blew out his "match and looked at him. Lie
was sitting bolt-upright in his chair staring
across the room and looking almost like the
Draycott of old. Enderby followed his gaze
and saw a couple at a table in the corner of
the room; an elderly man and a sunny-
looking handsome girl. There was nothing re-
markable about them, barring perhaps the
girl’s good looks; but Maurice was glaring at
them with all his soul in his eyes. Some
telepathic message reached the girl; and she
turned round and .looked at the disgracefully
shabby man who was making her so con-
spicuous. Her half-closed eyes seemed to
be. contemptuous and possibly angry; any-
how, she deliberately shrugged her line shoul-
ders and turned back to her companion.
The Draycott of old sagged suddenly to
the Draycott of to-day. His white face
twitched helplessly as he stood up and held
out his hand.
“I think I’ll go now. Bill.” he said feebly
and nervously. "Thanks for the feed” —-—
“Oh, but won’t you”——
“No thanks, Bill. 1 think I'll go, if you
dont mind. No,; don’t come out. Good-bye."
Euderby’s hard face was puzzled and
slightly softened as he watched his guest
shambling uncertainly through the tables to
the outer hall and the steps. Poor old
Draycott! Not a hope !
The night in Gastlereagh-street was good.
Maurice liked the night. It was dark and
soft and fugitive, with nothing of the harsh
insistence of the glaring day. Listless figures
crept out of doorways and rummaged hope-
lessly in ash-tins, before they drifted
Domain —figures of people who had given up,
who couldn’t be bothered. A brooding silence
bung over the world, a suspension of the
rigid activities of the day. He took his list-
less place in the suspension with a sigh of
relief: this was better than the sharp out-
lines of the Touraine and Bill and all the
intolerably capable people there. He drifted
furtively up King-street to the deeper silence
of the Domain ; below him the fitful lights of
the ’Loo showed faintly through the. trees;
around him the figures that couldn’t be both-
ered were settling down for the night.
lie shuffled down the slope thinking—
thinking harder than lie hail thought for
years. That was Cecilia Raven who had
shrugged her shoulders at him so contemp-
tuously.
The thought flew off at a tangent back to
the hospital in France. Until to-night lie
had unconsciously felt and hoped that this
war-legacy of utter depression was in itself
only a suspension—that it would pass and
leave him free to take his true place in Syd-
ney again. But not now. That shrug was
too much. Staring up at the imagined can-
vas roof of the hospital and hearing her
voice in memory, he knew that all this can't-
be-bothered was permanent now. He would
leave Darlinghurst and come down to the
’Loo—to his own place, his own place. Why
should be wait in his half-way house for a
relief which could not ever come to him now ?
He caught his breath as he felt once more
the ice-cold shock of her scorn.
Behind the sheds at the docks end of the
slum be saw the gleam of the water, and
stopped to peer wistfully through the bars
of the gates. The water —why come down
to the ’Loo—why make'the effort of moving,
with the waters so near? But that thought,
too, broke —rail bis thoughts broke half-
formed and vague. Only the savage pain of
her shrugged, indifferent shoulders had the
resolution of truth in all the shadowy vaga-
bond world. Climbing the steps slowly, he
was conscious of that one reality.
In the musty, dingy hall he heard bis name
called as he passed the sitting-room door.
“Maurice —is that you. Maurice?”
He stopped and lifted his head, his heart
thundering in his breast. Her voice—was
that true, too?
“You!” he breathed, seeing her standing
beneath the gas.
“Yes. me." she said. “How thin and pale
you look. Maurice! I asked your friend for
your address: he told me you were”
She broke off. looking rather helplessly up
into the haggard amazement in bis face.
“You!” he said again, a light dawning
slowly in the' haggard eyes.
“[ said it was me. How very thin you
are! Are you all right?”
“Oh yes—a little legacy of depression, but
-—oh. quite all right."
“You slipped out of tin* Touraine pretty
quickly. I was so astonished to see you that
I had to look away and—think it out. When
I looked again you'd gone.”
Her eyes looked him up and down once
more, but quite uncritically. She sighed.
“I thought I'd done with nursing for ever;
but it seems not.”
A vividness, a confidence was creeping into
his manner.
“But look here.” lie said firmly. “I can't
let you.”
“You haven’t any option.” she interrupted.
“To begin, you needn’t live in this house,
need you?”
"No —oh no. I’ll —I'll move to-morrow.”
lie came quickly across the room and stood
before her chair, looking down into her face.
There was life, awakening life, in the shaking
hands he held out.
“That it should be you !” he whispered.
But instantly the light in his face faded,
the hands dropped.
“But I forgot." he muttered; “you
shrugged your shoulder in scorn! It’s no
good, you know ; I can't."
She laughed. “Have you a monopoly of
war-legacies? Scorn —don’t be silly! I had
a breakdown in 11)18: and its remnant is a
twitching of the shoulders. I do it m
moments of excitement, such as”-
And Maurice knew that a great many
things mattered.


ifixnisoNiiui
AYd nOA MTS
Compensation of all whose
interests would be affected
by the introduction of NO
LICENSE will cost at least.
rZooooooo
{4,600,090
to compensate for the loss of Federal
Customs and Excise Duties. To this
must be added £1,100,000 interest
and £3,500,000 cost of enforcement.
This means a burden of at least an-
other £20,000,000 capital expendi-
ture and £8,100,000 annually on the
shoulders of the already overloaded
taxpayers of N.S.W.
Can you pay? Do you WANT to
pay? Is it worth while handing out
twenty million pounds in return for
an unworkable destruction-dealing
fad which is unworthy of the name
“law”?
A
Is it worth while curtailing your pleasure and your children’s oppor-
tunities in order to find money for a measure which has proved a dis-
astrous failure wherever it has been tried?
Do not be misled by the vague sentimentalisms of unpractical agitators.
Prohibition is wrong in principle and BECAUSE it is wrong in principle
it can never succeed. To state that the introduction of Prohibition would
help N.S.W. is OBVIOUSLY untrue, You can best help your State and
the principle of temperance by smashing the Prohibition fad!
VOTE NO'
Inserted by the CITIZENS’ RIGHTS AND LIQUOR REFORM ASSOCIATION,
to further the cause of Liberty and Freedom of Action. Financial Support is
invited, and Subscriptions for Membership will be received at BELMONT
CHAMBERS, 15 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.


QM
“<gd
STT,
■
1
■
%
1
■
%
Hi lie
i
I
m
II
v;io
IS
m
For full figures Model 0.305
very light weight. Firmly
boned at back only with
unbreakable rustless, spiral
steels. Finished in delicate
pink coutil. This model is
made to caress the figure
rather than restrain it —it
smooths the lines and gives
the desired flat back effect.
Anothir view oj Model 0505
for full figures. Mote the
cunningly placed diagonal
boning on the abdomen
support—this gives maxi-
mum firmness with the
minimum oj weight. The
double elastic inserts over
the hips give ease and
freedom of movement. Six
hose supporters.
Model 1211 a Wrap-Round
jar slimmer figures—ideal
for sports and dancing or
every-day use. Fitted with
clastic inserts over hips
giving comfort and flexi-
bility. Finished in deli-
cate pale pink floral contil.
Beautiful quality and work-
manship. This model affords
adequate support, for the
type of figure able to wear
it. Four hose supporters.
Your Retailer —
RETAILERS who realize that corsets are not a
relic of last century—that thejr are more
important now than ever before—that they
settle the fit and look of woman’s clothes and
the daily comfort she enjoys—these retailers will
stock “ Twit fit.”
* ‘ Twilflt ” Corsets are Good—they have exclu-
sive features that make them conform to fashion
very comfortably, and their workmanship, material
and finish conform to the highest standard of
British production.
Distributors for Australia:
LYALL WILLIS & CO. LTD
London, England.
AGENTS:
Adelaide . . Arthur Glover.
Melbourne . Baldwin & Slattery Pty., Ltd.
Sydney.... Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Perth L. M. Cullen & Co.
T.l
pooOOOQOg£(&OQAop|)AraQAAAA
tf\v jry cty - Hx*
SAFE with GUYATT’S!
sdf
The improved Guyatt
Elastic Truss is the latest
and most efficient Elastic
Truss on the market to-day.
It has been altered and
improved in several import-
ant points of construction,
until its strength, efficiency
and durability have been greatly increased. A careful
examination of this Truss will prove every claim
made for its advantage over others.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
GUY ATT & CO.,
Expert Makers of Surgical Appliances,
Dept. 8., 257 a George St., Sydney.
Opposite Bridge Street.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
sd
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney-
16.
BUTTONING UP THE PURSE
is an out-of-date phrase, but the principle holds good; yet
there is a better way of saving money than by merely refrain-
ing from spending it.
Money in your pocket, or your purse, is practically money
spent, for it is too readily available for every whim to buy
this or that unneeded trifle.
Save in the modern way. Open a Commonwealth
Savings Account and let the pounds and the shillings and the
pence work for you.
There is a Savings Bank Agency in every Post Office.
Gomonwealtb lank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
A Trifling Job.
DR. KELBY
TELLS TIIE STORY OF AN OPERATION.
LOOKING the picture of misery, the
little man sat in the corridor that led
from the women's ward to the operat-
ing theatre. He had managed to raise a
smile as his wife was wheeled along the
corridor five minutes before; he had even
walked briskly by the side of her stretcher
and groped blindly but successfully for her
hand the while he urged her to remember
that the doctor had said it was only a
trifling job. The wardsman pushing the
vehicle along had gone straight into the
swinging green-baize doors, and the little
man had been left talking to empty air.
Five minutes later an inanimate form was
wheeled out of the same doors by the same
rapidly-moving wardsman, and the little man
found himself forced by some all-powerful
influence to look at the two figures till they
finally disappeared into the ward at the far
end of the corridor.
As the trolly faded from view the little
man shuddered. He had always hated the
thought of operations. When lie was a
small boy he had broken his arm, and the
terrible sensation of being forced to take a
“whiff,” as the family doctor called it,
had remained with him for the rest of his
life. The mere smell of ether made him dis-
gustingly and helplessly sick.
The wife had been complaining of pain
for the past year or so. Their usual doctor
had told her that there was nothing for it
but a small operation, and at first she had
refused to take any notice of him. She
talked it oyer with her husband, and tliev
promptly decided to go and see someone else,
who just as promptly repeated the advice
of the first doctor. In desperation,. after
she had endured six months of it, he took her
to a specialist. The specialist charged him
two guineas for repeating the advice of the
other two. Still unconvinced, the little man
spoke of the dangers of anaesthetics and
operations in general—and went to a her-
balist. The herbalist had been successful in
extracting ten guineas from them before
they awoke to the fact that the three doctors
had probably suggested the only treatment
likely to do any good.
With much misgiving the little man and
his wife went back to the specialist, who
assured them both that it was only a trifling
job and half an hour in the theatre would
see. everything fixed up to everybody’s entire
satisfaction. They left liis rooms in chas-
tened spirit and with a note to the super-
intendent of one of the big hospitals
to arrange for her early admission ; the little
man had a most uncomfortable feeling as he
signed the papers that it was his wife’s
death-warrant. Of course he knew it was
absurd and childish to think these things;
but the sub-conscious influence of his child-
hood dose of ether was more, than he could
conquer.
And now the great day had arrived, and
they had taken Harriet into the theatre.
“Stupid name, theatre,” he thought. “Anyone
would think it was a rotten play he’d
advised her to go to, instead of a butchery.”
And then lie wondered how she was taking
the anaesthetic; whether she’d say anything
stupid before she went off, or when she was
coming to?
Coming to? Of course she would come to!
A rotten sort of feeling got him by the
throat, and his heart almost stopped beating.
People had died under an anaesthetic before
to day. Only one in a thousand —or was it
one in ten thousand?——or a hundred thousand?
He had read the figure somewdiere only the
other day, and it annoyed him that, for the
life of him, he couldn’t remember it. After
thinking it over for a few. minutes more,
he made himself even more miserable with
the added thought that it didn’t matter very
much what the percentage was. The main
thing was that people did actually die
under an anaesthetic, and even if only a
few died, there was no reason on earth why
Harriet couldn’t be one of them.
He got up from the white chair and walked
desperately towards the green-baize doors.
Was that Harriet calling? She didn’t want
the operation, and was trying to tell him to
take her away ! He quickened his step and
then brought himself up with a round turn
and called himself all sorts of fools. The
thing was half over now.
He could have sworn he heard her calling.
* :!: *
The specialist and his house-surgeon were
over at the basins “scrubbing up.” They
had just finished the third case on the list.
The little man’s wife was the fourth.
“The next case,” said the great man with
that ponderous humor for which he was
noted, “is quite a nice little woman,, some-
what short of brains.”
The house surgeon laughed dutifully.
“Yes,"’ chuckled the specialist as he moved
away from his basin and drew on the right-
hand glove, “I told her six months ago that
she ought to have it fixed up, but she. pre-
ferred to present a herbalist with some of
her cash first of all.”
Pie was rewarded with another dutiful
laugh.
The anaesthetist wheeled Harriet in from
the adjoining room. She was breathing with
that curious heavy snoring that betokens
anaesthesia.
“She’s ready, sir,” announced the anaes-
thetising house-surgeon.
The specialist gave a final tug at his re-
maining glove and stepped toward the table.
He picked up a scalpel from the tray and
pushed it skilfully into Harriet.
Ten minutes later the youngster giving the
anaesthetic put his ear anxiously against his
patient’s mask. The surgeon noticed the
action and asked if all was well.
“Breathing very lightly, sir,” was the reply.
“I think I’ll take off the mask for a minute
or two and let her have some air.”
The specialist grunted and went on with
his work.
A minute later Harriet stopped breathing.
“She’s stopped !” said the young anaesthetist
hoarsely.
The specialist took a swift look at her and
said. “Oxygen, camphor—quick as you can!”
The operating sister had both at the head
of the table almost as soon as he had spoken.
She put the oxygen-tube into Harriet’s ashen
lips and a hypodermic of .camphor' into the
hands of the anaesthetist, who immediately
injected it into Harriet's arm. lie then
started doing artificial respiration.
“She—she’s gone,” he said to the surgeon
helplessly.
“Nonsense!" retorted the surgeon. "Keep
it up. Steadily now—don’t lose your head."
Then, turning to the sister, “Another c.c. of
camphor.”
After a few seconds that seemed hours to
everybody iii the theatre Harriet heaved a
deep sigh and her pulse gave the faintest
dicker. The anaesthetist nearly cried with
joy, but showed his pleasure by redoubling
his efforts. Harriet gave another sigh, and
the faintest color appeared in her cheeks. She
stayed hovering on the brink for the next
five minutes and then suddenly began to
breathe normally once more.
“She’s right now,” said the specialist as lie
fixed his glove more securely and picked up
a pair of artery forceps. “Keep your eye on
her and don't give her much more dope.”
“You’re going on with it. sir?” asked the
young anaesthetist fearfully.
“Certainly,” chirruped the specialist. “If
I don’t fix her up while I’ve got her here
we’ll never persuade her to have another.”
He put his hand thoughtfully into Harriet’s
inside and looked inquiringly at the ceiling
the while his brainy fingers told him all the
information he was seeking.
“Ah,” he murmured to no one in particu-
lar.
He withdrew his hand and taking up a
scalpel got busily to work.
:J: :1c * *
The little man, who had had his eyes fixed
on the green baize since the moment when
he fancied all that foolishness about Harriet
calling to him, sat glued to his seat when
the doors finally swung open, and the atten-
dant (whom the little man now quite defi-
nitely hated because of his cursed cheerful-
ness and speed) pushed a stretcher along
at a fast trot. Harriet was on it, but a
nurse walking by the side of the trolley
hid her from view.
The nurse smiled at him and said, “She’s
all right; come down to the ward in about
quarter of an hour.”
The little man tried to smile back, but he
found that his facial muscles were paralysed.
He emitted a peculiar noise from the bottom
of his throat and tried to get up from the
chair. But his leg muscles were also para-
lysed and he wasn’t able to move till the
little procession had passed into the ward
at the end of the corridor. He looked at
his watch so that he’d know when the
quarter of an hour was up.
A few minutes later the surgeon came out
of the theatre accompanied by the two
house-surgeons.
The little man rose to meet him. “Doctor,”,
he asked in a voice that he had never heard
before.
The specialist prided himself on never
forgetting a face, “Ah, Mr. Raymond,” he
said, “no doubt you’re a little anxious about
your wife. Everything is perfectly well,
and there is no reason why she should ever
have any more pain of that description.”
“Th-thank you,” gasped the little man,
who suddenly felt his throat quite dry. “I—
-we —l mean, she ought to have had it done
a long time ago.”
“Quite!” assented the surgeon as lie com-
menced to walk away. "Only a trifling
job.”
The Mangroves.
When the moon was shining white
In the middle of a night,
Lighting with her silver flame
Headlands high and beaches low,
Rowing lazily and slow
Over weedy spit and flat
To the mangrove-maze we came.
There, ’mid reeds and leaves afloat,
On the tide we moored our boat,
Shipped our oars and leapt ashore,
Feeling like adventurers
That a strange enchantress stirs,
Stirs and spurs to dare and do.
Knowing not what lies before.
While the slow tide inward crept
Through the mangrove roots, we stepped
Down dark avenues, where gleams
Pale and ghostly, weird and wan.
Through deep mists about us shone,
Chilling us with that cold dread
That men sometimes feel in dreams.
As a crane in sudden fear
Took to flight as we drew near,
Flapping off on heavy wings,
We could hear the midnight breeze
To the dark and brooding trees,
That seemed hearkening to it,
Telling strange and secret things.
Haunted by wild fantasies
As we wandered ’neatli the trees —
Trees with thick, cold dew a-drip—
Slow of foot and hushed of breath
Through us stole the chill of death ;
Chill of death and dread of death.
Cold as ice, had us in grip.
Glad were we when in our boat
On the open bay afloat
Once again bright blades we plied,
Coasting shining beach and bar,
Rowing fast and rowing far
From those strange unholy trees
On the broad uplifted tide.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Shelley’s Lark.
Though myriad human hearts have stirred
Since when the poet saw the bird,
A deathless light upon its wings,
The lark that Shelley heard still sings.
No bird may e'er diviner be
Than that caught up in poesy,
That not in the Italian air,
But in the soul sings everywhere!
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.


ft
\
w*
Kir
\
fSP
KSg
V-Z£
z**
•«<K
epg
5$
B
m
's£2Bi
>S
i
\u
\
H
m
v. ■'
M
>•*
,<r*r,
m
m
Vi
C.E
be rum
%
W
The body temperature of a sheep ranges between 99deg. and 1 04deg. F. As this temperature
is higher than that of the surrounding atmosphere, a constant loss of heat occurs, which can only be
replaced by feeding.
During the winter months this loss of heat is greater than at other times, and, in consequence, there
is a definite need for an INCREASED FOOD SUPPLY.
Owing to the limitations of stomach capacity, sheep cannot consume sufficient quantities of grass,
hay, ensilage or other bulky food to supply these extra needs, so that concentrated feeding is essential
during the winter.
MEGCITT’S
LINSEED SHEEP NUTS
provide the ideal method of winter feeding. They supply the right type of nourishment in its cheapest
form; they increase growth in young sheep; they stimulate wool growth, and hasten fattening.
From a health-giying point of view, the high percentage of Linseed Oil contained by this food
makes it incomparable.
It will pay you to feed Meggitt’s Nuts during the Winter months.
Limited,
26 RING STREET, SYDNEY.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Meggitt Limited, 26 King Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
N.Z.L. Co., Ltd., Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Bos 357 G.P.0., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Denham’s, Limited, Brisbane; Denham Bros., Ltd., Rockhampton
Cummins & Campbell, Ltd., Cairns and Townsville.
|p
m* w m
.. . .. V..-.;..
.
mmm i
. • . :;•
il
m
1 -.-. ■ ...
■
*»Y."
■
H
HH
SH '
M
•>.
:v
.* - J
*. -
m
m
■
■
mm
■
■
■1
■ ■ ■■■■■
• ■
■_


A wonderful
body builder
•:
is always
fresh & pure
In 4 sizes
oFall Chemists & Stores
FOR PICNICS, LUNCHES & SUPPERS
Kraft Cheese is the clean and whole-
some cheese that cuts so easily into
smooth, golden slices for sandwiches.
IT IS MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Sold by weight or
in %lb. cartons
by all grocers and
storekeepers.
cff|P
aCL
Made in Australia by
Kraft Walker Cheese
Co. Ply., Ltd., at
Riverside Avenue, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.
The London and
North-Eastern Railway
of England and Scotland
Serves
Beautiful Cathedral Cities,
Seaside Resorts, Dales & Moor 3,
Inland Spas, Castles, Abbeys.
THE EAST COAST ROUTE
(Track of the “Flying Scotsman”) is the
Shortest and Quickest between
London and Scotland.
Illustrated Booklets describing Resorts on the
L.N.E.R. will' be gladly supplied on applica-
tion to Messrs BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches; or
in London at the L.N.E.R. West End Offlces,
71 Regent Street, and 59 Piccadilly, W.i.
Agents throughout New Zealand:
J. A. REDPATH & SONS, LTD.
TOUR ENGLAND & SCOTLAND
by L.N.E.R.
THE WINDMILL.
BY- R.J.J.AFFLECK.
WHEN John Andrew, after many days
of strenuous toil, had erected the
windmill, the first ever raised on the
creek, lie had proudly painted on the large
wind vane in heavy black figures the year of
its elevation—l9os. He did well to be
proud, for it was practically a single-handed
job, since Charlie Smith, who worked for
him on the farm, resolutely refused to do
any climbing. Charlie couldn't go two feet
up a step-ladder without trembling in fear
*that the thing would fall, let alone climb up
thirty feet and help to place the wheel of
a windmill into position. So he did all the
ground work —cut and trimmed the four
heavy poles of yellow-jack out in the bush,
carted them and assisted the boss in their
erection on the bank of the creek about three
chains from the house. These four poles,
each a foot through, formed the tower, and
were braced to heavy logs sunk in the earth.
They squared red-gum slabs and bolted them
to the poles in sections of four at the
necessary intervals, Charlie hoisting them up
with block and tackle, and John Andrew
fixing them into position. Iron spikes driven
left and right up one pole made an effective
ladder.
The machine, which John Andrew perforce
had to swing into its place himself, was of
the rack-mill type. The pump rod was lifted
and dropped by means of a heavy elliptical-
shaped head which, by means of a ratchet-
cog in the centre, moved round, up and
down, a small cog driven by the whirling
wheel eight feet in diameter.
But the builder of the tower made one-
mistake, and one he did not realise until
nearly twenty years later. He neglected
to build a platform on the top of the tower,
and when, at that time, the head smashed
and the big wheel crashed to the ground,
John Andrew, not so spry as he used to be,
nor so keen on standing on narrow struts,
roped a wide plank across the tops of two
of the poles. There lie stood in order to
work the old wheel and a new head back
into position. Otherwise the home-made
tower served its purpose well.
It was the machine that gave trouble. It
was a noisy, rackety affair at its best, and
as it had no reservoir frequent oilings were
necessary. The older it became the more
frequently it needed oil. As soon as he was
old enough Trevor Andrew, born the son of
John five years after the erection of the
mill, was assigned this task, and he objected
every time.
“I don’t know why it is, Charlie,” said
John Andrew one day to his still faithful
workman, “but oiling that mill is the only job
on the farm young Trev. hates. Look at him
now; he’s as sujky as a bear.”
Charlie stopped harnessing his team, and
hanging one arm' comfortably over the
leader’s neck, stared past its head at a tall
youth between seventeen and eighteen years
of age, broadening at the shoulder, but a
trifle long in the legs, who stood just at
the foot of the windmill tower. The lad
turned his head sharply, and in one swift
glance took in the two men watching him.
Then he put his foot on the first peg and
climbed slowly upwards.
John Andrew turned to Charlie. “You’d
think a young fellow like him would run up
that pole, wouldn’t you?”
Charlie picked up a heavy collar and
pushed it round the horse’s neck before re-
plying. His shrewd grey eyes were half
closed. He had seen what John Andrew
had not noticed —the slight hesitancy between
each step, the fierce grip of the free hand
on the pegs and the straight, stiff legs.
“Well,” he answered slowly, “I never seen
you yet run up those pegs carrying, an oil-
can in one hand.”
John Andrew grinned. “No? I suppose
not. But why does he hate it? He says
openly that he hates the job.”
“Why?” echoed Charlie, pausing again in
liis harnessing. “Because he’s young and
wants something new. Ain’t he a 1 wavs talk-
ing about patent, ball-bearing, oil-’em-once-a-
year mills? All young chaps likes to be
up-to-date.”
But Charlie talked to Trevor in a different
strain that afternoon when they rested their
respective teams at lunch-time. “Trev.” (he
almost whispered the words, so low did lie
speak), “what makes you frightened of the
old mill?”
The boy blushed. The tea slopped over
the edge of the mug in his hand. "How —
how do you know 7" he stammered.
Charlie half-closed his eyes and nodded.
‘‘Because I can’t climb ladders myself. Never
could. Every time I went up a ladder or a
tree the backs of my legs used to get stiff —
used to nearly pain. Is that how yours
go ?”
Trevor took a large mouthful of tea before
he answered. “Yes, and I’ve got to grip tight
with my hands, and press my body close to
what I’m climbing, though often enough I’ve
tried not to. I feel such a coward,” he
added miserably.
Charlie patted the boy’s knee. “You’re not
the only one, Trev. Why don’t you tell your
father?”
“Tell Dad? Not on your life. I couldn’t.
What would he think of me? You’re the
first and only one I’ve ever told. Why,
last year when I was at High School the
Head planned a trip down a goldmine for
the senior boys. But I couldn’t face it—
going down that cage; and I couldn’t tell
him, so I cracked I was sick. I wouldn’t
tell the Head or my mates, so I’m sure I
won’t tell Dad. And don’t you tell him
either.”
“You can trust me not to give away your
secrets,” answered Charlie simply. “But the
next time that wheel comes off your father
ought to get a new one. It’ll be hurting
someone next. It’s getting too rickety to
stand much longer after coming off once.”
But John Andrew didn’t get a new mill
when the wheel came down again. This time
the axle collapsed, and. deaf to his son’s
entreaties and Charlie’s veiled hints, John
Andrew, still proud of his mill, had a new
axle made, and prepared to re-erect the wheel
with Trevor’s assistance.
“Up you go, lad,” he cried heartily, as he
“Charlie patted the boy’s knee. ‘You’re not the only one, Trev. Why don’t you
tell your father?’”
handed over the end of a strong rope run-
ning through a block. “Tie this to the top,
and Charlie and I’ll pull this pole up with
the block and tackle.”
Trevor gave Charlie one glance, and then
set his teeth, and commenced to climb the
tower. By the time he reached the last
peg the muscles along the backs of his legs
were stiff. He swung one leg over a strut,
and clinging tightly with bent leg mus-
tered up further courage to free his clenched
hand from the peg, and to tie the rope-end
satisfactorily. He stayed in that cramped
position while Charlie and his father hauled
the long pole into its place, so that the top,
carrying the block and tackle, projected
about ten feet above the tower. Moving con-
fidently up the pegs John Andrew roped
the pole tightly to the tower, and climbed up
beside his son.
“Here, get up on that plank with me,’’
he ordered, “and we’ll put the axle in first. ’
Watching from the ground Charlie saw
the boy poise himself before he clutched the
head-piece, and stood erect on the strut. He
saw the hesitating steps, each one on the
ball of the foot, as the boy moved gingerly
on to the roped platform.
While Trevor, his heart in his mouth,
held the axle in position, his father tapped
it home. Charlie fastened the wheel to the
]m I ley, and slowly jerked it up above the
platform. Then followed the most difficult
part of the job—to swing the centre of the
wheel level with the axle, and not be
caught off the balance by any sudden twist
of the hanging wheel. Trevor was ordered
to hold the wheel while his father stood in
front of it and manoeuvred it into its posi-
tion on the axle. Swiftly he roped the
wheel to the head-piece, and so released both
Charlie and his son from their strained posi-
tions. Trevor immediately grasped an up-
right and slid down on to the strut. He
rubbed the beads of perspiration from his
forehead on the sleeve of his shirt.
“Now, don’t sit there,” admonished his
father, “(let hold of this hammer, and hold
it at the back of the head-piece, while I
tap the wheel on farther.”
It was a ticklish piece of work, as the
new axle had been purposely made slightly
thicker to allow for the wear in the old
block. Balancing himself on the platform,
he lifted the heavy hammer. At every blow
the board bent and creaked to the weight of
the swing. Trevor watched it with fear-
fascinated eyes. As they bent over and
tapped the key-pin into position a warning
cry came from Charlie: “Look out! the
ropes are frayed.”
Trevor gasped, and flung his hands at the
head-piece as the board tipped from under
his father. With this last jerk the lashings
snapped at one end, and the board hung
down with just the remainder of the rop«
holding the other end.
When Trevor opened his eyes all he coul.l
see was his father’s hat and two brown
hands desperately gripping the edges of the
tilted board. Grimly conquering his own
distress, he forced himself to act quickly.
Dimly he heard Charlie calling, “Hold on,
Trev., I’m coming,” as he dropped down on
to the strut below, where lie could see the
legs and part of his father’s body dangling
in mid-air.
“Hang on tight, Dad,” he cried, and,
wrapping one arm around the pole, he
leaned out and over, and grasped his father’s
belt. “Now, swing your legs in straight.
You’re only six inches off a strut.” The
two feet moved in, felt for the strut, and
dropped steadily and carefully on to the
board. “Now let go one hand at a time
while I pull you in.”. John Andrew twisted
himself from behind the board, and with the
aid of liis son's firm grip, stood firm on the
strut. Hasty tears gathered in the boy’s
eyes as lie saw his father safe. “I think I’ll
go down, Dad. I feel a bit sick,” he
managed to say.
John Andrew nodded. His face was white
and strained even as his son’s. But a smile
—a smile of appreciation—flickered across
his face when he caught sight of the staring
eyes of Charlie peering at them from over
the edge of the strut. “Hullo, Charlie,” he
called. “It takes something desperate to
make you climb a ladder.”
Trevor glanced down, and a look of under-
standing flashed between old CCw 7 > the
youth. Then Charlie's lu'ftd :n, neared,
and Trevor slowly him. He fi and
the old man leaning against the tower vainly
trying to hold a match to his pipe in his
shaking fingers.
“Boy,” Charlie whispered, “you’re a
marvel. 1 low you do it time an’ again
I don’t know;”
Trevor seat* ■ himself on a handy log and
held his head between his hands. He sighed
and shuddered. “I’m not going up again,
anyway,” he muttered.
John Andrew, pulling himself up on the
topmost strut, commenced to release the
hanging plank. “Stand away from under,”
he called. As the plank struck the ground
Trevor jumped. “Take your time, Dad,” he
cried. “Be careful.”
With a reassuring wave of his hand John
Andrew went on with his work, and soon
Trevor and Charlie were lowering the
hoisting pole to its customary horizontal
position.
When at length John Andrew stood beside
his son, he placed his arm affectionately
around the lad’s shoulders. “Feeling ail
right now, Trev. ?” he asked. “Bit of a
sickener, wasn’t it?.... If she comes down
aga.n, she can stop down, and I’ll get a
new one.” With a parting squeeze he
walked over to the pump and released the
gear lever, and the mill once more com-
menced its grinding whirl. He stepped
back and eyed the revolving vanes approv-
ingly. -"But she’s good for a few more
years yet,” he-announced approvingly.
Charlie saw Trevor’s color fade and then
deepen. His own fingers clenched in sym-
pathy.
“Dad,” Trevor began hesitatingly, “I
I don’t”
“You don’t what?” His father’s glance
was keen. The boy bit his lip.
“I mean—l’m glad—you know —you won’t
go up there again—like” His voice
trailed away in uncertainty. .
“Oh, that’s all right, Son,” answered John
Andrew a trifle gruffly. But Charlie knew
what Trevor meant to say.
As he lay sleepless on his bed that night
an idea occurred to Charlie in which he
saw a way to save the boy this recurring
mental strain, now so much accentuated by
shock, without John Andrew being told
Many days passed, however, before he could
bring himself to put his idea into execution,
and then he had to wait for a favorable
opportunity.
It came the day of the Autumn Show.
Charlie refused to accompany the family in
the car. "No, I’m not feeling too fresh
to-day,” he reiterated in explanation. But
no sooner were they out of sight, and he
was satisfied that all the neighbors’ cars
had passed along the road than he hurried
to the smithy and procured a hammer, a
large cold chisel and a length of strong rope.
Half an hour later old Charlie dragged
himself to the door of his hut and flung
himself down on the bed. more tired mentallv
and physically than if he had just com-
pleted a long day of hard work. But as he
patted the stiff muscles of his legs, he
smiled with the satisfaction of a good deed
well done.
Trevor could hardly believe it when he
told him. “Oh, yes,” Charlie replied, “I
fixed it up for you all right, and no one
hut us two’ll know any different. I cut
the cotter-pin head more than half-way
through, and then I hammered the box of
the wheel hard again it. All you’ve got to
do now.” he continued, leading the way to
the mill, “is this. When your father tells
you to put the mill out of gear to-night
—it’s blowing stronger now, and by the
look of them clouds scudding across the
sky we’ll be having another gale—pull the
gear lever down, and put the peg in this
way.” He caught hold of the steel peg
chained to the pump, and pushed it across
the lever that its point just rested ou the
edge of the second hole in the bar of iron
on the other side of the lever. “Now, when
it’s out of gear the jerking of the big tail
on the gear lever will gradually knock the
peg right out. Away swings the wheel, and
down she’ll come—whop !”
With every hour the wind increased in
intensity. The mill whirled and creaked
and shrieked and clattered and groaned in
agony. Suddenly it ceased, and young Trevor
appeared at the door of Charlie’s hut. “Hey,
(Continued on page 57.)


Banking, Public Companies, etc,
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 .. £18,366,297
Directors: Sir Makk Shuloon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yauwood; H. R. Lysagiit, 0.8. E .;
Georgh J. Sly, LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge: ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Cite! Inspector: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branch s and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New South Wales.
■SBANE (264 Queen Street).
Brandies . i .deceiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBC (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (36 Bundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. , '•?. ft. George’s Terrace).
XjONDGN (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Jfanager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors ;
A. Dodds Fairrafrn, Alfrei ’ . can, James Tuke.
Agents throughout Australia. Ania and New
Zealand, and at all the (Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Ranking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 374,197
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,760,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,609,655
Great Britain a,iu nciauu, .uu omer places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS “,!■«
periods and transacts all other usual Banking business.
TUB
UNITE!) insurance
UIIIICU COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE U HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances elf(iCted on all classes ot
• ■■ Buildings, Stocks, Furni
ture.&c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
■■ Hulls of Vessels, Freights.
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes.
The "United" Is an Australian Institution.
4. C. Dawson. Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
GRANTS
TIP AFT 0,1 Australia, New
** 1V " Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
If! frplflnd find nfhor nlnnoo
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
**■ should read the British Austbalian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia . House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manages.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original
\
<Gwrr
IffIAUR
WOULD
SPOIL
IT J
fds
f
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
sdf
&
emit
mm
\uV i
Through Auckland and
Suva to Honolulu
Warmly hospitable and naively joyous, Hawaii
wreathes the garland of welcome for every
pilgrim to its sunny shores.
On July 26 the giant liner Aorangi will make
its stately tour to Honolulu, carrying Aus-
tralians out of Winter’s reach into the endless
Summer of Pacific Isles.
Auckland, Suva, Hawaii, then back again—yet
the whole trip costs little more than a city
holiday.
Another Delightful
Winter Trip
is suggested by Union
Company’s Tahitian
Excursions to
fascinating
Rarotonga and
Papeete.
Visit
Pacific Isles!
Return Excursions
(from Sydney)
First Saloon . . £75
Second Saloon £55
Aorangi leaves July 26
Particulars and literature from
Union Steam Ship Co.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by All Steamship Lines.
Choice of Any Route. Without Extra Charge.
From AUSTRALIA to
ENGLAND
FRANCE
ITALY
GERMANY
AMERICA
CANADA
MEXICO
AFRICA
JAPAN
EGYPT
INDIA
CHINA
Also attractive tours to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji, etc.
AUSTRALIA TO
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly sailings maintained by the popular
steamers “MARELLA” and “MALABAR” from
Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane, via Queensland
Ports, Torres Strait, Darwin, etc.
South Sea Island Tours
Solomon Islands—
S.S. “MATARAM,”
Visiting 24 Island
Ports.
New Guinea—
S.S. “MONTORO,”
Visiting 16 Island
Ports.
(r*
LL
For Reservations and Information apply: —
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. And all Branch Offices.
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
♦Ascanius .... 10,000 tons, July 23
f Demosthenes 11,500 ~ Sept. 11
*Nestor 15,000 „ Oct. 15
.... 18,500 ~ Oct. 16
♦Ulysses .... 15,000 „ Nov. 12
fThemistocles 11,500 „ Nov. 27
Anchises .... 10,000 „ Dec. 10
♦First class only. tFirst and Third class.
t“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., JLtd.
Joint
Agents
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALBANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BARADINE .. 13,100
BENDIGO .. 13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON, LTD.,
Tel. 86701-2-3. 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Huddart ParkerLiSi
Magnificent
Past Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobai I
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND ..
RESERVE LIABILITY
Established 1817.
WALES.
£7,600,000
6,660,000
7,600,000
£20,660,000
Direeton,
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald ,T. Black, M.L.O.
Auditors: S. E. Laid ley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LIMES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—2B XhreadDeedle Street, E.C. 2.
618 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRNCT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping* etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOB! MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports ,
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Sydney Agents.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn, Ltd.,
1 9 Bridge Street.
Melbourne S.S. Co.
Ltd., Clarence
& Barrack Sts.-
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kemblaßlg.,
f>B Margaret St.
Iluddart, Parker,
Ltd., 10 Bridge St.
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAV (no cargo for Mackay),
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
at Townsville for outports).
PAUSE AWHILE IN SUNNY
HAWAII
Enjoy eternally balmy weather, in novel setting
of tropical moonlight and melody, quaint tea-
rooms and Oriental bazaars. Exciting surfing
and outrigger canoeing at Waikiki. Enchanted
cruises to the lovely islands of Kauai, Maui and
Hawaii. Golf and motor on all principal islands.
A vacation that’s different. Good hotels from
12/- to £3 per day, with meals. No extra
charges for stop-over privilege when en route
to America or Europe. Round'-trip, Sydney and
return, 8 weeks or less (3 or 4 weeks in
Hawaii) can be made for about £lOO to £l6O,
inclusive. Ask nearest travel or steamship
agent; or write Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept.
26, Box 241-D, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for full
information, attractive booklet, attaching
advertisement.
PLAN NOW TO ENJOY HAWAII
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
clue Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Beceiving Sets,
BRISBANE;
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., I/TD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Go.. Ltd.
a
iron
OH
£
vv«
&
■Blfn
r
W>2
tA
70
'CANDLE rotten:
ypuMJHbte&ffkt
So restful to tired
eyes, so simple, $o eco-
nomical. Three hours’ light
for one penny.
Use electric light for its con-
venience, BUT for your eyes'
sake, light an Aladdin for
reading or sewing.
P»ses gloom away ; floods your
home with soft white light.
Costs little and saves that cost
over and over again. Burns 94%
air, 6% kerosene vapour, lights
on a wick like an ordinary lamp
Ul , » r f an ge » Free Trial through
your local Dealer. Write for par-
ticular* of thi* FREE OFFER.
Aladdin Industries Ltd.
872 Aladdin House,
a 4 *'? 3 JJ ? he^ ef ? St -> SYDNEY
An Aladdin Dealer in every town.


m.
MISS VIRGINIA BERESFORD,
a charming Rexona
Girl and Movie
Star, writes: “I
find Rexona Soap
a wonderful soap
for the skin and
hair, and excellent
for removing make-
up.”
sd
fsd
Girls! One Shampoo with
Rexona Soap will Bring Out
the Real Beauty of Your Hair
Ho .you know that in less than 10 minutes you can double the beauty of your hair? It
becomes light, wavy, fluffy, abundant, and appears as soft, lustrous and charming as anyone
could desire after a simple wash with Rexona Soap.
A delightful surprise awaits those whose hair has been neglected, or is scraggy, dry, brittle
or thin.
Rexona Soap cleanses the hair of all dust, dirt or excess oil, and in a few moments you
have doubled the beauty of your hair.
Rexona Soap removes every particle of dandruff, cleanses, purifies and invigorates the scalp,
for every stopping itching and falling hair. If you care
to have pretty hair, and lots of it, get a tablet
of Rexona Soap to-day.
'Rexona,
Soap
7or JJizcdJth
J and
DtUUlhj
m
wm
%'h i,
m
Kd
/M
If,
kl
VO'S
O'-*
p\>« vf
iMi/'m,
m
:
When your friend is complimented on his socks and
says that they are "Merino-Knit,” do you say "That’s
just what I wear ? ” If you do, you are wearing the best
in quality, colour and design. "Merino-Knit” Cardigans
and Sweaters are just as pleasing and satisfactory
as " Merino-Knit ” Men’s Hose.
Merino-knit
HALF HOSE & GOLF HOSE
"Pr^p
"Merino-Knit” Half Hose and Golf
Hose are made of Pyre Australian
Merino Wool entirely, or, in the
lighter weight Half Hose, of Merino
and the best English Artificial
Silk. The colours are carefully
chosen to tone with present-
day fashions for men.
"Merino-Knit” Half Hose is
made to fit snugly round the
ankles and firmly on the legs,
ensuring the acme of comfort
and smartness.
Ask/or “ Merino-Knit"
Garments Stocked by
all good Mercers.
merino woollen mills
PTY. LTD.
COLUNGWOOD. VIC
pu
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAIL
Representatives ;
NORMAN BAKER & LONQHURST LTD
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO.,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY.
Sheffield,
England.
fs
•6981 -ou
wake up,” he called happily. “We’re set.
Keep your ears open for the crash.”
Boy-like, Trevor fell asleep almost as soon
as he snuggled beneath the blankets. But
he awoke with a start when a light flashed
on his face. He sat up. “Gosh, Mum, you
frightened me. What’s up?”
Ilis mother, partly dressed and worried
looking, held a hurricane lamp towards
him. “Quick Trevor,” she cried. “The
mill got away, and father went down to
put it out of gear, and I just heard a crash
like the wheel coming off, and —and father
hasn t come back.”
Trevor caught the lantern, and stumbled
out into the night after his mother. He
caught her arm, and the flickering, feeble
fight swung grotesque shadows out, around
and behind them. They picked out the out-
j , e T t , ower ’ ancl stopped beside it.
Had! John!” they cried together.
I'm all right,” came from the edge of
the bank. “Fetch the lantern here. The
wheel s on top of poor old Charlie, though
what he was doing here I don’t know.”
Father and son, while the mother held
the light up, lifted the crumpled wheel, and
carefully turned the still figure over on
his back. John Andrew’s breath hissed in
between his clenched teeth. He leaned for-
ward. “Yes, old chap—what? Come closer,
Trev., he wants you. Mother, you go up and
ring the doctor, and I’ll fetch down some
spirits.”
They hurried away, and Trev. bent down
closer. “Trev.,” came the faint whisper,
“it’s all right now. I was seeing the peg
was not in too tight when”
The whisper ceased, and Trevor knew
there was one more secret he could never
tell his father.
Ad Astra Per Aspera.
’Tis a rocky road, and the stars are high,
And the track with brambles is over-
grown ;
But I lift my eyes to the darkening sky,
1 n f, s f * my feet and make no moan.
1 shall forget all my wounds and scars,
Y\ hen I have climbed to the shining stars.
Others have passed me, fast and fleet,
Ihey have won to the goal while yet
I stay;
Not, for them are the aching feet,
Nor the briars that so impede any way.
But I shall rest, as they do, at last,
Vv hen rugged roads have been overpassed.
. I find pleasures upon the track,
liny flowerets, so frail and fair ;
I forget the burdens upon my back,
At sight of the wee things blooming there;
1 or, though I shall climb to the stars on
high,
I shall find no blossoms within the sky.
And sometimes a passer-by will wave
A hand of greeting as on he wends;
And my heart grows strong, and my spirit
brave,
Because of the greeting that thus he
sends.
And I climb more steadily for awhile,
Cheered by the kindly word and smile.
Though long, and lonely, and hard the road,
Yet it shall reach to the stars at last,
And the bleeding feet, and the heavy load,
And the tangling briars shall all be past.
And I shall rest, and forget my scars,
When I have found the shining stars.
NORTH AUSTRALIA.
J. S. LITCHFIELD.
My Lady.
M.y lady left the lordly dance
And through the rain she came to me;
I saw the wavering of a torch,
I heard a murmur like the sea.
Only the wind across the moor,
Bringing its battle from the hill!
I did not stir to let her in,
But stood and waited very still.
Her cloak could barely cover her;
Her costly gown showed many a stain,
And every little powdered curl
VY as diamonded with driving rain.
Her satin shoes were soaked in mire •
Y\ hen she was gone I yet could see
Two tiny footprints on the floor,
Vague as a tear-veiled memory.
M.v lady to the ball returned.
Did any cold : eyed gallant trace
I he mark of kisses on her throat.
A ribbon torn, the crumpled lace?
At dawning I shall tend the kine
Amidst the wreckage of the storm;
My lady in her gilded bed
With drowsy eyes keeps snug and warm.
Her coverlid from Paris came
Broidered in purple fleur-de-lis.
But she may fling its weight aside
With little secret thoughts of me,
The while her tirewoman frowns
And wonders over muddy shoon
That left the pompous minuet
To foot it to a gypsy tune!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Eight Stone Six.
A COMPLETE STORY BY RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
PHYSICAL greatness and heavy financial
tonnage were the features of that meet-
t? 111 A, 1 . 11 . board-room of the Hematite
flange Mining Company. Only the secretary
was small, and he would have been bigger
than the average in a community of normal
human beings. All five directors were very
big men; tall and massive and big boned
and bearded men of great presence; of
gigantic frames and girth almost Falstaflian.
lliey had all been raised in the open had
lived to manhood outside of cities, most of
them in the Central or Far North. They
had grown on the limestone of the great
plains that grow bone in horses and men;
the free winds of wide, open spaces had ex-
panded their lungs; the long days in the
saddle provided the appetite, and three meat-
meals a day satisfied it.
There was Mailey, who at sixty looked
torty, a big, boyish-mannered man, keen and
thorough; Bowles, who had left the manage-
rnent or a million sheep to manage the indus-
try of five thousand men; Templeton, who
had surveyed great areas of the continent
until a share in a world-beater mine had
caused him to abandon chain and theodo-
lite for ever; and Baxter, broad, big, blue-
eyed, optimistic as spring, light-hearted as
a boy despite difficulties that seemed endless
-—although nearly seventy, a white-b arded
boy, who refused to grow up; also a man
of swift understanding of character, swift
sympathies and able to call the best out
of others. Which is to say that he had
imagination. The other director was McNair
fn SO o n^ ai V Wl '° - did things. He had begun
in a little Victorian town with a lathe and
li°r rSe w ai ' f ° r P° wer - and bad grown to
nniif f- ature , wltll .work as food and tonic,
until Ins engineering works covered forty
acres or so, and the single liorse-gear had
anvn n tho 1 F > £ , U tif ndS r 0f horse -Power and lii s one
anvil the father of two hundred forges. They
modo t/ 1 men wllose small beginnings had
made them masters of detail, as their growth
had made them rulers of great affairs
W nl.Z, H J^ lte Range Promised to be a
woi thy addition to their string A great
mineralised hill in slate carrying rich coppm
crawling to f™, dreds of miles away and
crawling to it slowly, but quickly enough tn
bell 01 ' “ a 0t M yet scarce*?
.“There's three or
our jears dead work in it, he said “And
r h e e mt s rwa*r,, ,, r y M
frd ‘Li fftnwfc „«
doesn’t n iook h h- f ° r a Prospecting show. 11l
stone six ” en ° UB ' h to me - Abo «t eight
My "“'nS* him* hi „”„V ™r d ao/ a i d c
mc?t ,S mei a S e ‘ h t e „ P SrI,p CO kr eit ,£ a 'S
general manager now thaf thn - 10,:) of
sVr. ,op cs
whether Fawcett-Browa had ima'KSon °„”r
not; and the others, hearing the w'ord
imagination” for the thousandth time,
smiled. At the last they decided to invite
applications, which could include Fawcett-
-Drown if he desired, and before the appli-
cations were considered Baxter, as chair-
man of directors, should visit the distant
mine—in itself a serious expedition—and on
i s ,j e^urn ' ie Question: of management
should be answered.
The meeting dispersed, and Baxter re-
mained with the secretary to arrange details
of the visit and wire to the railhead for
transport into the wilderness. The secre-
tary showed the last letter from the
m <™ager signed “J. H. J. Fawcett-Brown.”
He s got full weight in his name, any-
uow, said Baxter, “even if h e goes only
eight stone six on the weighbridge. But a
big mine wants a big man—although a big
mine makes a big man, just as a good horse
makes a good jockey.”
* * * $
Baxter left the railhead in a solid-tyred
bug-mobile, a high-swung buggy with a good
engine; around the sides and the back of it
narrow tanks of new galvanised plain iron
holding e.ighty gallons of water. At a dis-
tance this quaint vehicle seemed made of
by the sunlight reflected from the
new iron. With its high body the bug-
mobile travelled safely over gutters and low
scrub, and, as Baxter said, it was a great
steeplechaser. So at sunset on the fourth
day they approached the range that had
pnmnf S Ki eel " bl, ]- e in the forenoon, and then
cobalt-blue at noon, and purple at three
° clock and was now black and green with
a thm feather of smoke rising from the hid-
den camp in the mulgai a.t its foot
himbwi . twcnt .y y ea rs slipped from
F- u-o i- n / dl , vme air ’ asked that was
b awcett-Brown’s camp, and the driver re-
Pll< hnn!i a V t W m S the T onl y Possible camp for
a hundred miles, Fawcett-Brown havin-
ShlT 11 nf rOU f l ac, : oss th e lowest of a
belies of rock holes-, impounding enough
Mm th ;<^ h to the fext rain
llie dark masses of the iron range rising
four hundred feet above the plain were
S lo ?“y and forbidding in the growing dusk
and the contrast of the smoke of the camp
made a home in the wilderness. The quaint
ESS , S k c art ,„ck thrcXihe
mul B a and the plain wind died as thev
entered the scrub. A dog barked as S
bug-mobileturned the last bend in the track
that cnrled to avoid tree roots as a creek
twists to evade rocks, and there before the
a°lithe S wirJ :h lPtl SerVed a |! dinin g- r °om stood
mV!!’ W -r y i ff? 0 m «n shaven as if he were
trimmed hl \- Curly , little moustaches
tnmmed to leave his mouth clear. J H T
Fawcett-Brown, M.1.M.M., Ml MR
‘ ( Mr. Baxter?”
Yes. And Mr. Fawcett-Brown? Glad
to meet you and glad to be here Had a
sldJT’ but fOUr n ay ? is -i ust about enough
SgsTS»’ tatwha -
Tin T ou > been , the shiock absorber Mr
Baxter said the engineer, laughing pleas'
Baxter laughed with him, warmed to him
sooTe™ “ * ha ‘ ha “ «<** SttaTa
SST *»
ehairman“of dfrS^to 0 ™
uueccors to a roomy half-tent
(Continued on next page.)


NEXT WEEK
“The Honorable Imogen.”
She is the most amusing old
humbug we’ve met for years.
You must make her acquaint-
ance.
By Mary Molloy.
“Skipper Holman.”
He’s different. You will like
this thrilling story of the sea.
It is full of action.
By R. Exon Butchart.
AND THREE OTHERS.
<2> v
K
flic
c O*T
a 'ns
La hd
‘'"'in,
a
°THf
oil
$
»
Gbiai
M
fAr
HtRBAL Balm
*
!U
L"-,4
ra
»o
on
r*
KlP lts CAlt >S c I " S IS CIJT
tlr
lAS
l «S
•Us
pq
S od
8 U
<*«
IN S
P 'U
<**7
C »IA
ft
P »E
B't
9o a
c C>s
{ tfO
COi
"Gs
URt
p ts
b 4
//V
%
c at ion
a
€
df
Zam-Buk is applied to a cut,
burn or other injury, all smarting pain
and irritation disappear. The great relief
this treatment affords is due to the fact
that Zam-Buk is a refined balm of natural
herbal origin and not a compound of animal
fats and zinc, mercury and other
drugs. Next, Zam-Buk
coarse
I
the tissues. Its germicidal and antiseptic
properties are to-day regarded as indispens-
able whenever a wound has had exposure
to germ infection.
Zam-Buk is the relentless foe of the
germs of festering, blood-poison, eczema,
etc. It “medically” cleanses the tissues,
drives out all pus and poison,
•*111•!•••*11•**•••
LSfcw
with new, healthy skin. This tissue is
created cell by cell, so that soon all trace of
injury is removed. Whether it be a super-
ficial injury or a deep-seated skin disease,
Zam-Buk will give results superior to any
mere ointment.
Chemists and Stores everywhere sell Zam-Buk at 1/6 a hox,
or 3/6 family size. Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap, 1/- a tablet.
THE PERFECTLY BALANCED FIRST-AID
haF-building with a boarded floor. And
then he showed Baxter a bathroom with a
shower home-made, of a perforated kerosene
can and later fed him and smoked with
hi m ’ until Baxter dozed almost standing;
so he withdrew early and was asleep as soon
as his head found the pillow. Baxters last
thoughts rl.at night were “Good chap, very
pleasant. 11 right for a prospecting show,
but not big enough for a great business.
Eight stone six hasn’t enough imagina-
tion.”
The morning showed him that Eight
Stone Bix (as he mentally labelled the
on'nocr .vs .being shorter than alphabetical
Brown) had order. The camp below the
dam the tents of the men in almost street
•ili *lirnenc all camp* rubbish to the fire.
After breakfast they scaled the short range,
walked its length and saw the many pot-
holes and costeens sunk by Eight Stone oix;
three small prospecting shafts in course of
sinking in the eastern slope of the hill;
great precipices of low-grade ore and boulders
of very rich copper.
“All of it can go to the smelters one of
these days,” said Fawcett-Brown. “Mean-
time I’m getting the lay of the rich runs —
all on the eastern side they are. We’ll go
down the shafts to-morrow, and there’s go-
ing to be a big body of rich stuff further
north when we hit the great mass of the
iron. At least I think so. This is the cave
that really found the copper. It's iron
oxide, and the niggers have come here for
centuries and from hundreds of miles away
to get pigments to paint themselves for war
or tribal initiation, or merely for dances.
They brought a bit of copper-glance back on
one trip and the prospectors got on to it
that way.”
The three days of Baxter’s stay made
them very friendly, but Baxter had already
made up his mind that Eight Stone Six was
too light for an administrator. He liked
him, but Fawcett-Brown’s future position
seemed that of sub-manager. Baxter had
been strengthened in that belief by the fact
of Fawcett-Brown’s opposition to Baxter’s
plan of development.,
“No,” said the engineer, as if his opinion
settled it. “No big shafts for production
yet. I’ve taken up a double depth of block
leases east and the working scheme is tunnels
and open-cuts.”
They were in the westerly crosscut from
the bottom of the central shaft, which had
cut at twenty feet a great body of glance
that filled the
shaft and extended
into the crosscut.
It was banded with
graphi t e, which
had made a negro
of the dapper little
engineer and black-
ened his grey mou-
stache, and had
dyed the white
beard of Baxter
and patched his
face with black as
if he were a
chimney-sweep.
“Tunnels are too
slow for the proofs
we want.”
“But why. Mr.
Baxter? W e’ve
plenty of time be-
fore the railway
gets here. What’s
the use of proving
ore with an elabor-
ate and costly series of shafts and crosscuts
and winzes when we can put in adits and
keep the little prospecting shafts cheap and
efficient, moving down to the tunnel-levels
for ventilation.” . . ,
Baxter was too big for that. In his mind
he saw the drives and crosscuts of a suu-
terranean town in metal, and he said again
of Eight Stone Six—“ Little miner—no
imagination.”
So with all his liking for the little man
he had definitely decided against him, when
on the last night of his stay they sat smok-
ing in that clearing which was a mere white
pocket of air in the black and breathless
mulga. Above them the marvellous Central
Australian sky sown with stars as a fertile
field grows wheat, and all that soaring light
deepening the darkness of the violet sky
about it. with the rays of millionous stars
falling to earth gently in a rain of illumina-
tion. Then Baxter suddenly discovered a
fine thing in this little man—the clean hobby
in the study of a miracle that lifted him.
Said the engineer suddenly: “D’ye know
Ralph Waldo Emerson, Mr. Baxter —Ameri-
can poet, you know?”
“No, I can’t say I do.”
“I don’t know much of him, but when I
sit out here at night I can’t forget four
lines of his :
Teach me your mood, ye patient stars,
That nightly climb the distant sky;
Leaving on Time’s old face no scars,
No trace of age —no fear to die.”
“That’s very good,” said Baxter, rather
lamely, he thought himself. “Read much
poetry ?”
“Not a great deal, but somehow all that
is about the stars sticks to me. We came
from them, I suppose. Our world is only
compacted stardust and the residuals of
gases now escaped, and some instinct tells
us we belong. That’s why men in all ages
have dreamed of the stars, and tried to
measure them, even to reach them; and when
a real poet talks of the stars he gets a bit
of their majesty. I remember a line or two
—don’t know whose: ‘The god Thor sitting
naked as a child, seven stars in his right
hand and Charles’s Wain.’ That doesn’t
fit this hemisphere, of course —it’s the
northern ; hut a thing like that sticks.”
“I never knew any stars but the Evening
star when I was making camp late at night;
and the Morning star when I was moving
around among restless cattle, and the good
old reliable Southern Cross.”
“The Portuguese call it the Virgin’s
Brooch, saying that it fell from her cloak
as she was ascending to Heaven; and after
V inderdecken it was called the Dutchman’s
Hope as a sign that the Flying Dutchman
would find forgiveness one day. But legends
about the stars are waste of time because
the facts have more romance than the human
mind can hold. See that big fellow? That’s
Sirius. His light takes twenty years and
more to reach the earth. So if Sirius
was suddenly extinguished twenty years ago
we wouldn’t know it for six months yet.
He stopped as if he felt he talked too
much, and Baxter encouraged him to it
again with, “The Milky Way must be longer
than from here to the railhead; but 111
swear it’s not as bumpy.”
“It's length is into the hundreds of thou-
sands of millions of miles. There’s a tribe
here in Central Australia that believe it’s
the mother of everything, and their belief
is like the old Roman myth of it being milk
that flowed from Juno when she thrust Her-
cules away from the breast. I talk a lot
of this. The loneliness here makes a man
think and study, and there’s nothing more
beautiful than the sky.”
“Go on,” said Baxter, and the engineer
went 0n... .
Baxter, silent in that little pocket of
light in the darkness of the great continent
that surrounded it, felt his insignificance
the more in feeling the relation of that con-
tinent to the limitless space above and
around, its serried ranks of light, its girdled
constellations and its black gulfs. The moon
rose above the mulga, a flattened orange of
golden red, and they watched it lifting in
the sky, changing shape and color as it
soared above the heats and mists of earth.
The engineer spoke again and said some-
thing that made Baxter gasp ; and then, as
if he felt he had bored Baxter, he turned to
commonplaces and went to bed early.
Baxter at parting next morning pressed
the engineer to call on him whenever lie
found himself south, and they parted with
great regard for each other.
“Good Eight Stone Six,” said Baxter,
looking back at Fawcett-Brown with some-
thing like affection. “Multum in Parvo’s his
new name.”
ft*-#'*
“Never mind the applications,” said Bax-
ter at the board meeting called the day after
his return. “There’s only one to be con-
sidered —Fawcett-Brown’s the man.”
“What you say goes,” said Templeton.
“You’ve seen him and you’ve seen the show,
and you know. But what makes you stand
for him particularly ”
“I found he had imagination.”
They laughed and Bowles said: “We don’t
want him to write the prospectus.”
“Prospectus be damned! He’s got imagina-
tion. He can see
the mine plan be-
fore there’s a foot
sun k. He’s no
little man. He’s
great o n quanti-
ties. D’ye know
what he said to me
on the night before'
I left? We’d been
talking about the
stars—at least he
had, and I’d been
listening. Did you
know the earth is
a few times bigger
than the moon?
Well, so did I, in
a general way; but
not to know really.
We were sitting out
in that little pocket
in the mulga scrub,
and the moon rose.
A big golden-red
moon that • seemed
twice the size it looks down here in the
south. I’ve only seen it bigger once and
that was coming up to Manila, and it seemed
to fill the sky. And what do you think that
little Eight Stone Six said to me?”
“Well, what?”
“He said ‘By God! Wouldn’t it be fine to
be on the moon and see the earth rise'!
See the earth rise! That settled me. I said
to myself: ‘He’s our man! A man who can
measure the Milky Way on four sides and
think of a moon as big as the earth is just
the man we want for shifting two million
yards of muck.”
“What you say you say,” said Bowles.
“Minute the appointment of Eight Stone
Six.”
The Restless Heart.
And whither would you go,
O restless heart?
Here on the uplands brown the gorse is gold,
The bushland bright witli glories manifold,
And a blithe thrush
In the morn’s hush
Is singing of the joys the green glades hold.
Singing from out the hedge
His lilting song,
That flows along the pathways shadowed
grey
In a wild psean to the red-winged day,
, Meadow and brake
Softly awake,
As the east glimmers with a scarlet ray.
Cannot you take delight
In all of this?
The long, warm meadow and the sunlit hill,
The poplars by the river, straight and still,
Black pines that rise
To sunset skies
Lit with a flame of rose and daffodil!
Always you bid me hear,
When night is dim,
A strange, deep note that murmurs on the
breeze,
Stifling the fitful soughing of the trees—
No gird you need
Whose heart will heed
The siren singing of the distant seas.
Then linger not with me,
O restless heart!
I would not have you dwell these hills
among,
Hearing the sea-call when the nights are
long,
Or wish you fain
To come again
To the green meadow and the thrush’s song.
N.S.W.
LILLA GORMHUILLE MCKAY.


sdf
sdf
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD..
Queensland Agents—HOLMES « CHURCH, Brisbane. fniUfnßn WFVT W WAIFS
N.Z. Office —93-107 Featberston Street, Wellington. bUWbUKU VltOl, N. O. WAbto
Victorian Office— “Chancery House/’ 485 Bourlse Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
) THE
INVINCIBLE
Ghh3
24/45 /t.p. 6-QyZ. Tourer
EXTREME flexibility with
top gear performance of 3
to 60 m.p.h. Four-speed gear
box, right hand change, low
gear axle ratio necessitating
change of gear on steepest
hills only. Built for the
Britisher overseas who wants
a suitable high-class British
car at the right price.
Designed for Over-
seas conditions with
4 ft. 8 in. track, 9 1 in.
ground clearance,
special springing,
special radiator and
fan to ensure perfect
performance, on the
roughest roads or
tracks, and in the
hottest climates. Ex-
perts and owners all
over the world con-
firm that in the 14/45
six-cylinder model
we have the finest
Talbot Car that has
ever been produced.
from
SYDNEY:
Buckie Motors, Ltd.,
187-189 William Street.
ADELAIDE:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street.
MELBOURNE:
Talbot Distributors Pty.,Ltd.
478 Elizabeth Street.
PERTH:
Arthur Bales, Ltd.,
367 Murray Street.
PLU
RAZO
a
*
a
3a
■s
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a. PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 3 2/6 each.
Xylonite Ivovy Grain Handle 15/6 ~
Real Ivory Handle . . . . 21/-
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Day PLUM Razor Sets:—
Black 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory 140/-
ner set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free of chaise.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths; fin. and fin.
—Post-paid Prices
Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 16/6
each. Post Frev.
sd
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
AN IDEAL WINTER HOME. The most sheltered spot on the Harbor.
Incomparable for Comfort. Excellent Cuisine and Sea-vice, Private Beach
and Amphitheatre Baths. Spacious Grounds and Gaarage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4£ Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast if required. Luncheons, Afternoon Teas, Dinners.
Delightful 25-minutes ’ trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
P- RKSEjRVATIOft S: Y 3012, 4 Lines.
J
i \
is
\
& 'y*
11 ourself again
gp •/-» . »
it uou mae care to keep your liver active
M E and digestion in good order.
'■*' To do this you need Beecham’s
Pills. They are an excellent remedy for Constipation and diges-
tive disorders and remove the most frequent cause of sickness,
headache, languor and debility.
Sold in boxes
1/- & 2/6.
fs
You’re safe
if W olsey
clad!
ALSO
ask to see
WOLSEY
LUSTRAL
Art. Silk Underwear
and Hosiery.
WOLSEY
SPORTSMAN
Knitted Outerwear and
Pullovers.
Pure Wool Stockings
for Women, Half-Hose
for Men, and 3 Hose
and Socks for Children.
OLSEY Pure Wool Underwear
V V is the finest protection you can
possibly adopt! Pure Wool from
first stitch to last, produced by skilled
British labour, Wolsey preserves an
even bodily temperature and makes
you proof against chill and cold. In
your own interests buy some and wear
it regularly. You need have no fear as
to whether it will wash well —it is abso-
lutely unshrinkable ! See the Wolsey
Head Trade Mark on every garment.
WOLSEY
PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR
Made in England by
WOLSEY LTD., LEICESTER.
WOLSEY LTD., 3 16, FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
*-xQ\
c\> i iP
w
s 6
&
,e\, p<
s 6 ..
0°
6>
e
• n * “ s^°
• I}%
**' ~-‘* ,/;f^


v
m
vV
’Jj
• ft
jV«av srz J
ipst&mmm
■ ■ ..r
»•
df
Oil pump very accessible, can
be removed without breaking
any pipe connection.
s
0
Tappets, very access.ble for
adjustment. If necessary they
can be removed in blocks ol
4 without disturbing any
other component.
<3— ’
S
S
Neat Instrument Panel com*
prising clock, speedometer,
oil pressure gauge, ammeter
starter button and Inspection
tamp plug—c once ale d
tight jpg.
sd
Untlersiung tvortrt of hlgll
efficiency in oil belli.
fsd
Metal Universal Joints with
oil tight covers. , Provide
smooth transmission, a great
improvement over the fabria
joint.
fs
Front wheel brakes of ample
size with accessible adjust*
ment.
ROBERT F. LEE, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Features of the New)
I 9 h.p. Standard
UNIT CONSTRUCTION. —Engine, Clutch, and
Gearbox with centre control in one unit.
CHASSIS.—A strong channel section, straight line
design with kick-up over rear anxle rigidly braced
by cross members.
ENGINE. —Four-cylinder, 9 h.p., side by side valves
detachable head, pressure lubrication by gear-
pump, magneto ignition. Electric lighting and
starting.
CLUTCH. —Single dry plate asbestos lined—
exceptionally light in operation.
BRAKES. —Powerful —mechanically operated—Four-
wheel brakes, internal expanding type on large
drums totally enclosed.
SPRINGS. —Long half elliptic springs are fitted at
front and rear. The springs are fitted with two
re-bound leaves on top of the main leaf
REAR AXLE. —Underslung worm type—absolutely
silent and running in bath of oil.
FRONT AXLE. —H, section beam of ample strength
fitted with adjustable roller bearings to front
wheels.
STEERING. — Irreversible screw and nut type, giving
easy and accurate steering.
AIL BRITISH MOTOR HOUSE LTD.
Russell Street, Melbourne
Distributors s
CARS OF BRITAIN LTD.
Adelaide Street, Brisbane
MORTLOCK BROS. PTY. LTD.
Hay Street, Perth
Agencies availabe in New South Wales and South Australia
Cffut STANDARD MOTOR C? COVENTRY ENG LAN D
