

>.
■
x
VtYwsV^
ve *\i *'»>\SW
■^.e° V >MVv^
*'*<*
7\ Nfl
S
V-
#l
?
=s :
s.ftvsp^
o' v i ,n * 1
Al
£2
THE CORK-LESS
BOTTLE
Tkere is no cork in tlie Wliite H orse
Whisky bottle. Just unscrew the airtight
cap. And there’s your whisky —soft and
mellowed hy age. Incomparable bottle.
Incomparable whisky.
white Horse
Whisky
<*7<.ick>S
■No corkscrew required 1
The Bulletin
~^ / iea£ in,Tf&c# /Uun&ens /
Vol. 49.—N0. 2528.
Wednesday, July 25, 1928*
Price 6d*
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
1928 is now ready, and will be for
warded with full particulars and terms on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTJ).,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Fear not the future, the vista stands free,
Always expect that the best is to be,
Hope for to-morrow, but Jive for to-day,
Pessimists meet every worry half-way.
Fear makes its progress in silence and stealth,
Courage is mostly a matter of health.
Winter-time ailments you need not endure,
Trust; jn ..Woods" great Peppermint Cure.
•' ” —Advt.
Learn
Story Wrumc,
TKis BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne .
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Boolclet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. '
My Name
My Address
REJECTED BY THE EDITOR—WHY?
Have your manuscripts criticised by experts. Every
member of our staff is a highly-qualified specialist.
WRITE TO—
METROPOLITAN BUSINESS COLLEGE, LTD.,
338 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
mw am urn (uwjduu
m
1
■
m
pi
SSSSJ
PE ,
§m
*
Miiidnuaiimißiiuum
a
For full figures Model 0505
very light weight. Firmly
boned at back only with
unbreakable rustless t spiral
steels. Finished in delicate
pink coutil. This model is
made to caress the figure
rather than restrain it —it
smooths the lines and gives
the desired flat. back effect.
Another view of Model 0505
for full figures. Note the
cunningly placed diagonal
boning on the abdomen
support—this gives maxi-
mum firmness with the
minimum of weight. The
double elastic inserts over
•' the hips give ease and
freedom of movement. Six
hose supporters.
Model 1211 a Wrap-Round
for slimmer figures—ideal
for sports and dancing or
every-day use. , Fitted with
elastic inserts over hips
giving comfort and flexi-
bility. Finished in deli-
cate pale pink floral coutil.
Beautiful quality and work-
manship. This model affords
adequate support for the
type of figure able to wear
it. Four hose supporters .
Your Retailer —
RETAILERS who realize that corsets are not a
relic of last century—that they are more
important now than ever before—that they
settle the fit and look of woman s clothes and
the daily comfort she enjoys—these retailers will
Stock “Twilfit.”
* 1 Twilfit * Corsets are Good—they have exclu-
sive features that make them conform to fashion
very comfortably, and their workmanship, material
and finish conform to the highest standard of
British production.
Distributors for Australia;
LYALL WILLIS & CO. LTD.,
London, England.
AGENTS:
Adelaide . . Arthur Glover. Sydney Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Melbourne. Baldwin & Slattery Pty., Ltd. Perth L. M. Cullen & Co.
p
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAIL~
Representatives : 0> 1369.
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY. England.
iutet
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC
For COUGHS! COLDS! INFLUENZA!
DSON
=SS
HARMFUL thboat tablets.
Throat Tablets and Lozenges containing Formalin
(Formaldehyde) are harmful. Wiley, of the United
States, investigated the effects of small doses of
Formalin (Formaldehyde) given with milk on 12
men during lo days. Burning in the throat, itching
rash and loss of body weight were observed. s
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
contain no Formalin, Cocaine or other harmful or
poisonous drug, or
Sold everywhere, tins
to the Manufacturers,
Co.. Ltd.. Sydney,
j or forward 1/6 in stamp*
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical
The Red Page
The Whitman Legend
There is a subtle joke about Walt Whit-
man of which even his best friends seem
to be largely unaware. By defiantly and
persistently announcing his total rejection
of metre, rhythm, rhyme and all such old-
iashioned fiddle-faddles of prosody in his
lull-chested “barbaric yawp,” he erected
five-rail fence of authoritative dictui
round the tight corner in which his devotee
followers (and they were and are many]
already found themselves. He was a grea;
man—that was obvious to all but the mo.
muddle-headed of his opponents. But h
admirers so passionately wanted to acclaii
him as a Great Poet. And just as pas
sionately he wouldn’t let them. It wa
certainly not a case of “songs withoi
words”; it was, as he himself insisted, th
stranger , phenomenon of songs withou;
music. Whereupon everybody outside th
worshippers’ corral piped up the wiy ques
tipn, “Can words without music be poems?
Then the admirers just shrugged thei
shoulders (all they could' do in thei
cribbed, cabined and confined discomfort)
and unhappily began to talk abou
thought-content and cosmic philosophy.
Now, the jest is this. In spite of his ow
disavowals, the work of Whitman is tha
of a poet, and no mean one; and that eve
when viewed exclusively from the stand
point of what is colloquially, though incoi
rectly, called poetry, i.e. rhythm, metre
rhyme and the other characteristic attn
butes of verse. He tried hard to make him
self and others believe he cared not a groa
for craftsmanship; whereas the plain truti
is, as his heedful revision alone is sufficien
to show, he cared greatly for craftsman
ship _ and was a confident master and
striking discoverer in verse-technique.
Let me offer some simple facts in proof
The fundamental basis of all verse is un
doubtedly to be found in rhythm. Here i
the opening of the first poem in the sec
tion “Memories of President Lincoln” ii
“Leaves of Grass”:—
When lilacs last in the churchyard bloomed,
And the great star early drooped in the wester
sky in the night,
I mourned, and yet shall mourn, with ever-returning
spring.
Compare this with the beginning of an
other poem, nothing less than the cele
brated “Christabel,” whose reputation ha
long since safely ensconced it in the text
books as a masterpiece of metrical and
rhythmical technique:—
’Tis the middle of night by the castle clock,
And the owls have awakened the crowing cock
Tu-whit! Tu-whoo!
And hark, again, the crowing cock,
How drowsily it crew.
Will any candid critic maintain that, as re-
gards craftsmanship, the verse of Coleridge
manifests any superiority? But, it will be
objected, “Christabel” as it progresses
reaches much greater lyrical heights. True
and so does Whitman’s poem, breaking
into one exquisitely lyrical passage in par-
ticular, of whose seven quatrains the first
and last are:—
Come lovely and soothing death,
Undulate round the world, serenely arriving arriv-
ing,
In the day, in the night, to all, to each,
Sooner or later delicate death.
Over the tree-tops I float thee a song,
Over the rising and sinking waves, over the myriad
fields and the prairies wide,
Over the dense-packed cities all, and the teeming
wharves and ways,
I float this carol with joy, with joy to thee, O death.
These lines can be scanned in the ordinary
fashion: they consist in all of 43 feet, of
which 15 are iambs, 7 anapaests, and the
remainder (of which all but one are initial)
are trochees. Is not this poetry, and great
poetry, too?
The truth is that often, though, of
course, by no means always, Whitman
achieves, triumphs in this realm of which
even Swinburne, perhaps our greatest
metrist, might well be proud. Even the
orthodox critics have found it impossible
to overlook .the delicate beauty of “On the
Beach at Night,” with its “Swim the deli-
cate sisters, the Pleiades,” surely one of
the mo3t exquisitely cadenced blank-verse
lines in literature.
As regards the “jingling sounds of like
endings,” as Milton contemptuously de-
scribed rhyme, Whitman certainly in great
measure rejected it. Even here, in this
most obvious point, however, we frequently
find him following traditional modes. “O
Captain! my Captain!” is in rhyme and
stanza throughout; in “The Singer in the
Prison” appear a formal hymn and an
effective rhymed refrain; and he constantly
employs, rhyme in such lines as “Ever-
returning spring, trinity sure to me you
bring” within the line itself to achieve the
desired balance.
His grammatical constructions savor of
anything but prose. Inversions of the type
of “perfume strong” and “leaves of the
trees prolific” appear on every page. Gan
?<r>i reasonabl y be ld that such lines as
Blossoms and branches green to coffins all
I bring,” and “Will you not, little shells, to
the tympans of temples held” are anything
else bul deliberate verse? When we meet
with such passages as “the measureless
waters. of human tears,” “Thou groan’st
with riches, thy wealth clothes thee as a
swathing garment,” “blossoms of my
blood, do we entertain a moment’s sus-
picion that here is the diction of prose?
Of the command he displays over the
subtler devices of versecraft, alliteration,
judicious use of double endings (an
in “Out of the Cradle Endlessly
Rocking’ is, as far as .my reading
goes the most remarkable of its kind in
English), thought-rhyme, line-balance and
the rest, enough might be written to fill
the Red Page a dozen times over. Let
me, then, merely sum up thus. I do not
assert that Walt Whitman everywhere and
without exception manifests himself the
consummate craftsman in traditional verse.
Such a sweeping statement would be merely
absurd. I do contend, however, that his
powers in this direction have been griev-
ously under-rated and neglected.
RICHARD MEREDITH.
Willa Cather
In a preface to Sarah Orne Jewett’s
Country of the Pointed Firs,” which says
many searching and profound things about
the art of writing, Willa Cather selects that
book, ''Huckleberry Finn” and “The Scarlet
Letter” as the three American imaginative
works which have the brightest hope of
immortality. Mark Twain and Hawthorne
may pass, but Sarah Orne Jewett? No, this
surely is a case of immortality going by
favor. And what has Melville done to be
shoved into the background? If “Moby
Dick” is not a supremely great work, then
the verdict of contemporary criticism counts
for nothing. But this business of selecting
three books (why always three?) and plac-
ing an immortal crown on them is always
unsatisfactory.
I confess that I find Sarah Orne Jewett’s
“Country of the Pointed Firs”. dull and
sapless, in spite of the enthusiastic things
that have been said of it during the last
20 years. These quiet stories were probably
r, relief from the slick falsities of the maga-
zines at the time they were written. They
have no cheap romantic gloss over them;
they are unpretentious enough. The author
spends a summer holiday at a New England
fishing-village, Dunnet Landing, accepting
the life as a thing to be enjoyed for its
own sake, and sketching the types she
meets—sailors, fishermen, old sea captains
and women of the farms. So far so goodi
But there is a slight self-consciousness, in
her attitude. “Look at me,” she always
seems to be saying. “These simple people
treat me as one of them. I know how to
slip into their minds and get them to talk
naturally to me. How thoroughly at one
with them I am!”
And in spite of the clear, straightforward
writing there comes a vision of Mrs. Wiggs
and the whole army of garrulous, homely
women who stand among their cabbage-
patches reeling out sentiment and philo-
sophy. The suspicion arises that Sarah
Orne Jewett is one of the traffickers in such
types, after all—better and more sincere
than the rest, but no different in her funda-
mental attitude. There is ' the American
thinness of blood in her, too. Her land-
scapes have no mystery, her people no real
passions. If they are given any intensity
at all it has a morbid, other-worldly touch,
like that of the woman who marooned
herself on an island off the coast because a
love-affair went wrong in her youth.
Willa Cather herself seems to me a much
more important writer. All the praise she
gives to Sarah Orne Jewett’s “art” in this
preface would fittingly apply to her own,
especially to the novel “My Antonia,”
“When a writer makes anything that be-
longs to imaginative literature,” she says,
“his material goes through a process very
different from that by which he makes
merely a good story or a good novel. The
shapes and scenes that have ‘teased’ the
mind for years, when they do at last get
themselves rightly set down, make a very
much higher order of writing, and a much
more costly, than the most vivid and vigor-
ous transfer of immediate impressions.”
My Antonia is the sort of book that
must have “teased” the author’s mind for
years before it got rightly set down. It
is mainly occupied with the presentment of
a Bohemian family that has migrated to
newly-settled country in Nebraska—the
father an ex-musician, a round peg in a
square hole; the mother a sullen, peasant
type; and the children, Antonia among
them, lively youngsters that enter the new
world with excitement. The story is told
(Continued on page 5.)


" Truth in Advertising " is your protection during our Genuine Sale as at all other times.
Furniture Reduced during
Anthony Horderns’
USE OUR “D.P.S.”
The benefits of Anthony
Horderns’ Deposit-
Purchase System are
doubly important at Sale
Time. You get the full
advantage of our genuine
reductions, yet pay as it
suits you. Just leave a
deposit, pay off the bal-
ance by instalments, and
when these are completed
the goods will be delivered
in the usual way. No inter-
est whatever is charged.
pgpau!
•HrrPfc'iSiß;
Xls
•Jfc*
mwM
?«i!
SSI
ssas
(fiiJ^SASCSfr
*««!
&MTs§os
9t
{Htftftfp
wmwi
111
it i
mk
m
IS
rnmm
&&&
VPM
IS®®
y«:
*O3
Join the throngs of “value-
wise” buyers at the “House
of Economy” to-day, for
the word Genuine has now
a greater significance than
ever before, and therefore
the great price reductions
now ruling have an
irresistible appeal. Such
genuine savings as these
come but twice a year
each time at Anthony
Horderns’. Remember that
this Genuine Sale will not
go on for ever, so exercise
the greatest economy and
buy at once.
few
I
H
wm
L
■ ■
■
m
'
“Dunedin” Bedroom Suite, made from specially-selected Oak. Comprising
5 ft. Wardrobe, with two-thirds devoted to hanging, Hat Shelf and Brass
Rod, and one-third Sliding Trays. Centre door has large shaped Mirror.
Side Doors have decorated panels. New Phonograph-type cornice. 3ft. 6in.
Dressing Table with landscape Mirror; narrow half-round frame and three
long drawers. Pedestal Boot Cupboard with Drawer.
Price £29/10/-. Reduced to
£23(10/-
, X.
tfHQi
‘‘Wellington” Bedroom Suite, in Oak. Comprising 4ft. Wardrobe, all hang-
ing space, with Hat Shelf right and left sides. Large bevelled Mirror Door
and Oriental panels on either side. 3ft. 3in. Dressing Chest with 3 large
drawers and large circular bevelled Mirror. 20in. Bed-
side Cupboard. Price, £l7/10/-. Reduced to
£l5/10/-
Reading Chair, as illustrated above.
Possesses desirable features. Well
upholstered and specially shaped to fit
the body. Upholstered in good tapes-
try. Secure one at the reduced price.
Price £7/15/-
Reduced to . . . .
£6/17/6
Upholstered Suite
Now £3l/10/-
The “Avery” Upholstered Suite com-
prises three pieces: Settee and two
Chairs. Spring edge and spring back.
Has loose cushions. Settee is 6ft. 6in.
full size. Upholstered in tapestry.
Price £37/1 0/-
Red&ced to . . . .
£31(10/-
Upholstered Suite
Now £22/10/-
The “Jay” Upholstered’ Suite, com-
prising three pieces. Well sprung.
Upholstered in a reliable wearing
Moquette. This Suite offers a saving
of £5 during the Sale. We advise you
to order early!
Price £27/10/-
Reduced to . . .
£22/10|-
(Dept. First Floor. Carriage Not Paid.)
Anthony Horderns
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


One of the immense Studc baker Production Plants.
; A
S* «
<gssm&'-
»asi
Si
rw=*t
Jr,
flfin
mtm
STUDE BA KEBe/
SHOP 1855
.s-nJDt
'“WiS^SSSSSS-
Bp4
SM' E i-Vo*VO“ HDi
MUliOtfS
or#
op
>'■
S<-\
1
XT7\
r
SSj&BsaS
JV
-7
'
WMB93.
Progress results
from Popularity/
Jt is a far cry from John Studebaker’s little
ror f e in 1835, to the immense production
plants which Studebaker controls to-day. 7 his
epic growth is the result of an unfailing adher-
ence to the finest workmanship with the finest
materials ever keeping faith with the public.
This year, the sales of Studebaker cars have
been vastly greater than ever before. Figures
supplied by the Australian Statistics Bureau,
prove that taking the whole of Australia into
consideration —Studebaker was the only car
to show an increase in sales for the first four
months of 1928 compared with the same
months of 1927, and not only an increase, but
an increase of 25.6%.
Every Studebaker car is so mechanically right
that it can be driven 40 miles an hour the
day it is delivered, and oil and grease changes
are necessary only once every 2,500 miles,
after the first 1,000 miles.
The inbuilt stamina and strength, mighty
power and smooth speed of Studebaker cars
have been ably demonstrated in a series
of wonderful achievements.
Studebaker to-day is the possessor of ev;ry
Australian and American speed and endur-
ance record for stock model closed and open
cars, regardless of power and price.
Erskine Models from £298 to £448
Director Models from £378 to £570
Commanderi Models from £560 to £650
President Models from £735 to £875
PRICES F.O.R. SYDNEY.
All New Models equipped
with shock absorbers,
bumper bars and four-
wheel brakes.
wer
Australian tind New Zealand Distributors j
NEW SOUTH WALES:
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Limited,
4-16 YURONG STREET, SYDNEY (just behind the Museum)
VICTORIA :
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd.
41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.)
Ltd., CtAeek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important towns.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Millingens, Limited,
42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND: '
Adams Ltd., 152-154 High Streep
Christchurch.


\
/
1
\
V,
J 7
is
M
\ i
>/
ALL-WOOL TWEEDS & WORSTEDS
SUITS - TO - MEASURE
AT SALE PRICES
And Still Less 2 / - in the £ for Cash .
You must order immediately to secure! It is a Sale Special
that men alert to save will take advantage of. Suits tailored
to-your-measure, embodying David Jones’ highly skilled
workmanship. The finest English and Australian all-wool
Tweeds and Worsteds in light and dark greys, fawns, blues,
browns to choose from. Usl., 9& io gns. Sale, 8 Gns.
DAVID JONES’ SALE
Castlereagh, Market & Elizabeth Streets
Branch Men’s Store, opposite G.P.O.
from the point of view of a romantic small
bov who lives on a prosperous farm
the immigrants’ holding, and it is simp
enough in outline. We see the gradual
development of this new country, the dim
of the immigrant family from the bares
ground-burrowing poverty to a condition o
comparative comfort, their slow mergin-,
into the life about them. We see the growth
of small towns, and the way their aria
and puritanical Americanism is enriched by
an infusion of blood from countries where
they have freer and more spontaneous
habits of living. ,
But the centre of it all is Antonia, the
girl who is a bright-eyed urchin talking
broken English in the beginning, and a
weather-beaten woman among a sprawling
family at its close. Antonia is alive from
top to toe. Everything she says or does is
interesting, and we follow her movements
with a slight flush of excitement as we do
those of Natasha in Tolstoy’s “War and
’Peace.” Yet she is never placed in romantic
positions. It is the vitality pouring out ot
her that gives her a hold on the imagination,
and she is as attractive when following the
plough in broken boots as when discovering
the pride of life, sauntering home bare-
headed through the township streets irom
a dance, arm-in-arm with the other foreign
girls. Her density is not picturesque, bhe
loses her head about a glib train-conductor,
and is left with a baby and a few broken
hopes, but this does not crush her the
boy who tells her story finds her 20 years
later married to a fellow-countryman on
a remote orchard, with a crowd of children
as alive as herself about her; and so vivid y
is she presented that we feel her vigor and
charm to the very end.
“My Antonia” is a remarkable novel, it,
has an earthy richness about it that is not
usual in American fiction, where the people
have a waxy pallor as if they had been pro-
duced by hothouse methods. Willa Gathers
work is all good, and she can write the
well-contrived novel as well as anyone, but
she has never reached this level before or
since.
VANCE PALMER.
The Music of P’s and Q’s
A line of example is generally worth a
paragraph of theory. Here is the allitera-
tive pattern of a verse from Hugh McCrae s
“The South Wind,” the main alliteration m
capitals, the secondary in italics:—
And StiLL her SandaLS in the Leaves,
Like udngS fLew down the crackLmg ways
That Led by CircLeS mid the treeS
To Where the Woodbind Waters lay.
The liquid L, in conjunction with S
(which delicately express the fleeting pas-
sage of the wind), runs through the verse
from beginning to end and binds every line
and image into a close unity. The satisfy-
ing finality of the last line is obtained by
bringing in "W, which has been announced in
line two in three hammer-strokes; and the
whole effect is heightened by the final sub-
ordinate l of “lay.”
The following verse from the late David
McKee Wright’s “The Inventors” illus-
trates at once the delicate grace of his
conception and a fault which many people
found in his technique:—
llaZ/moR made a /lying speaß,
When the Woods and We Were young,
BARbed with Copper, BURnished Clear
From a leaZ/zem tk ONG it swUNG.
Only the first and last lines have any
affinity of sound. The rest are sharply con-
trasted, and an unquestionable charm is
obtained by this rapid ringing of the
changes. But the charm begins to pall
when the poem unfolds line after line simi-
larly ostracised by its successor and its pre-
decessor. (In passing—every reader of
David McKee Wright’s poetry must have
noticed how his Celtic love of faery half-
lights found expression in a marked tender-
ness for W and the short I. In the same
way, the restrained and more virile genius
of Hugh McCrae delights in the nasal N.)
Alliteration is least obtrustive, most
subtle and most interesting in prose. The
solemnity of the Bible derives in great
part from an overplus of o’s, OH’s, OO’s
and OW’s. Isaiah, in the 33rd verse of his
10th chapter, prophesies:—
BeHoLd the Lord, the Lord of Hosts, shaLL Lop
the Boughs with terror and the High ones of stature
shaLL BE Hewn down, and the Lofty shaLL Be
Brought Low.
Of the 34 vowel-sounds in the above pas-
sage, 12 belong to the O group. Substan-
tially the whole passage is a very beautiful
symphony on the first word “behold.”
As a last, here is an extract from the
“Decline and Fall,” which shows that even
the “tall, opaque” words affected by the
Augustan pomp of Gibbon fall smoothly
from the tongue when cast into alliterative
pattern: —
An historian, Perpetually adverse to the Fame
of Theodosius, has exaggerated his Vices, and their
Pernicious eFFects; he boldly aSSertS that eVery
rank of Subjects iMitated the eFFeminate Manners
of their Sovereign; that eVery sPecies of cor-
ruption Polluted the course of Public and Private
liFe, and that, etc.
Down to the first semi-colon, PF and V
(the most frequent alliance of musical con-
sonants in the language) float down a cur-
rent of S’s and R’s; in the second phrase
F and V are still faintly heard, but S in
conjunction with M has become predomi-
nant; in the third phrase the PFV motive
is revived in full strength with its attend-
ant S’s and R’s, but the stress is now princi-
pally on the P. That is the alliteration
of the master.
The differences between one style and an-
other are frequently so minute that the
mind is conscious of the distinction without
actually perceiving the points of divergence.
The general attitude is not dissimilar, the
sentences built in much the same way, the
words those that have been used a million
times before; yet each lias a flavor essen-
tially its own. It is the word-music that
reveals the inner man —the unconscious
preferences for hard sounds or soft, simple
or imposing, that give the very guts of
the man on every page. Excessive and obvi-
ous alliteration, for instance, is often the
result of a mental laziness that won t
trouble to search for the right word, but
accepts the first suggested by the sound of
its predecessors. Again, Addison, a shy
and ultra-courteous man, played the smooth
PFV motive almost to death. The feverish
vivacity of the consumptive is obtrusive
in much of the later work of Robert Louis
Stevenson; he rings the changes inces-
santly and his periods have the singular
clarity of a man whose body has been long
mortified by pain. Sonorous companies ot
O’s bear out, in great part, the solemn
argument of “Paradise Lost.” And a cur-
sory examination of Galsworthy’s work
will show how the subtle modulations of his
style depend on a constant current of M s
and N’s successively modified by nearly
every consonant in the language.
What is the explanation of the musical
affinities of these groups—PFV for in-
stance, S for M and S for R? It is an old
axiom that words involving an effort in
pronunciation are the least musical. With-
out going into a tangle of phonetics, it is
safe to say that sounds formed at the back
of the mouth will not blend with front-
mouth sounds, nor, when in close con-
junction, soft plosives (PT and K) with
their respective hard plosives (B, D and
G). On the other hand, S, R and L, be-
cause of the smoothness of their production,
combine gracefully with almost any letter,
whilst M and N are only slightly less
accommodating.
Alliteration is the last refinement of prose
style; but it is also a two-edged weapon,
and a virile cacophony is better than a
string of pretty-pretty phrases. Endless
variety and endless echoing, all subtly
hidden, is the aim of alliteration. Few
but the masters attain the ideal.
L.T. LUXTON.
Art and Esthetics in Melbourne
Lester Way (R.P. 11/7/’2B) says the value
of a work of art may only be judged by the
strength of the aesthetic reaction to it. That
postulates that there is such a thing as
absolute aesthetic taste. There isn’t. Taste
varies with every individual; in fact, with
every age. It is susceptible to education.
Sometimes, in a few favored individuals,
it grows with the human body—or rather,
the mind. The boy who finds complete
satisfaction in the monotonous rhythm of
“Hiawatha” may in later years become, to
use Mr. Way’s phrase, “aesthetically blind”
to its “beauty” and prefer Masefield’s
“Ships” or Yeats’s “Innisfree.” The youth
who gets moony over the “Waltz Dream”
may later become civilised enough to like
Beethoven’s Seventh better. And Lester
Way, when he finds time to look at Shore’s
work long enough to learn how to spell
the artist’s name correctly, may become
similarly disillusioned.
For what are the principles underlying
the present work of the two artists, Shore
and Frater, so breathlessly admired by Mr.
Way? Despite the assertion that beauty
cannot be measured by inches, those prin-
ciples are quite amenable to rational eluci-
dation. They are simply the substitution of
a primitive perception for a riper. If one
sets out to sell dress material to a Dyak,
one does not fill one’s bales with delicate
brocades. One takes coarse cloths dyed the
crudest red, green and flaring yellow. Simi-
larly Shore (or Frater—they are as like as
two peas in their methods) looks at the
delicate blooms of tone on a boy’s face and
paints them one bright vermilion. This is
the secret of the “magic” which Mr. Way
says must not be dissected.
Mr. Way speaks now of Meldrum’s art
as cameraic; meaning thereby realistic.
Anybody having the barest nodding
acquaintance with natural appearances
knows that the photographic lens is the
biggest liar in the world—bigger even than
some of the modernists.
F.S.
Novels Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee nominated by the Associated Book-
sellers of Australia and Maoriland. It is
issued to serve as a guide to fiction of
merit:—•
General Literature. —The Day After To-
morrow, by Sir P. Gibbs; A Book of Words,
by Rudyard Kipling; Epics of the Fancy,
by Jeffrey Farnol; Some People, by Harold
Nicholson; Great French Short Stories;
Fifty Year’s in a Changing World, by Sir
P. Chirel; A Trader in the Savage Solo-
mons, by J. H. C. Dickinson; Forest Folk-
lore, by Alec Porteous; Adventures in
Arabia, by W. E. Seabrook; Diary of Russell
Beresford, by C. Roberts.
Books of Literary Merit. —The Bridge of
San Luis Rey, by Thornton Wilder; Etched
in Moonlight, by J, Stephens; The Last
Chukka, by Alec Waugh; Gemel in London,
by James Agate.
Books for Popular Reading. —Nevada, by
Zane Grey; Outlaw Love, by Kathleen
Norris; Kenya Calling, by Nora K. Strange;
The Madness of Monty, by Robert Keable;
Ashenden, by Somerset Maugham; The Trial
of Mary Dugan, by W. A. Wolff; The Queen
of Clubs, by Hulbert Footner; The Bridge
of San Luis Rey, by Thornton Wilder;
Windyridge Revisited, by W. Riley; What
Women Fear, by Florence Riddell.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except oj a hostile character) will be taken oj communications insufflcv ?«% **< a ™P e “-
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Rue R.: Good idea. Not very well worked
out R.J.R.: Commonplace L.R.W.: It touches
no tender spot. .. .W.J.T.: Still doesn’t suit....
W.G.C.: Good idea, but treatment not terse enough ;
cut the argument, for a start... .Joan D.: On
the weak side. .. .A.J.A.: “The Auctioneer” finds no
sale here H.M.R.: That sort of verse won’t help
you up “the ladder of fame”. .. .E.L.A.: Snake yarn
killed. .. .G.M.8.: Reached the doorstep of accept-
ance; but there was too big a crowd there....
R.C.11.: The confidences are not convincing.... Jack
R.: “Allow the retina to gently caress the swash-
buckling atrocity”—do you and your friends really
talk like that? R.R.: It doesn’t make* a story.
lane E.: Claude is a most uninteresting person.
. ...W.C.: We want better wattle verse than that.
lan D.; Lymphatic No. 8.: Milk item not up
to standard... .S.H.R.: So the daughter of the house
loved the scullery-man—nursed the wiper in her
bosom... .F.M.H.: A par. would cover the lie
H.M.C.: Your letter-carrier just fails in the delivery.
G.St.C.: Monotonous H.A.Y.: Interesting, but
hardly a complete story E.G.M.: Obstetric item
stillborn, as far as print is'concerned Edward
H.: It had a dinkum go for a place... .Wendy: The
South Coast item would do if you could disguise
the obvious marks of the workshop... .R.R.Y.:
Torrent of words; trickle of interest Kay S.: A
dreadful last line P. Glad: Be glad; it was too
dashed mournful.... Mary H.: Your idea of form
and melody is poor....Makaire: Alas!... .Paulina
R.: Afraid you can’t help “Australian art and litera-
ture” by that sort of stuff G.F.A.: Samples poor.
AV.G.H.: Not far off R.A.B; By no means
bad; but the “rancher” awakens suspicion P. Enc
(and others) : No use for pars, based on what you
have read in overseas papers unless the matter has a
definite Australian interest... .0. Gig: No grounds
for print in your “Coffee”... .J.W.R.R.: You spin
them out into worthlessness,.. .Lettie M.; “Inade-
quate” is just that J.H. (Marrickville) ; A horrible
yarn; and 1500 words are wasted on a totally
irrelevant person.... Clem L.: Doesn’t grip....
Querc: Vague impressions... .Ron C.; “Emma-
ville” a big improvement; try polishing. Not every-
thing can be answered here.... Harold J.: Bridge
item should have been abridged. .. .Pad D.: “Blossom-
bosom” would get us the sack Z.V.YV.: Treatment
not skilful enough Jim W.: It reads like a cat
fight. .. .D.D.L.: We have no use for “the same,”
as you call it Arman; Decline to “kneal with you
in prayer” G.L.G.: We hate the kind of remorse
that can be rhymed with “applause” Della C.;
Your “Orange” disagreed with us Obit: Wept
over “his corpse that grasped a silver strand from
out his mother’s hair” R.A.G.; Rhymed inventory
of the pawnshop window moved us to tears for our
own unredeemed pledges... .G.D.S.: You don’t fit
the forms properly Y.P.8.: “Dawn”-broke our
hearts Tom R.: “In the rough garb of miners”
is one example of the unnecessary adjective., Every-
one knows the garb is rough.... M.8.P.; Sorry;
“Prejudice” is a poor thing. .. .R.H.P.; It’s part
melodrama and part chaos.... J.W.S.: Crowded out
in an extraordinary crush... .J.S.: The weapon for
satire is the rapier, not a bent pin. .. .E.S.L.;
Doesn’t quite get there.... Cam D.: Welcome back!:
My wife is dead; my child is dying,
The girl I love has wed another.
Alas, the time is swiftly flying
When the Sad Tomb my woes will smother.
But, ah! kind hearted, at my gate.
The landlord for his rent will wait.
. ...L.A.8.: Keep on practising —and cutting down.
. ...AV.H.J.: Wanting in sound and sense L.P.F.:
Too many well-worn ruts... .Alice S: Very near the
mark. Another shot might do it... .Bellenve:
Affecting contribution to natural histoiy.
Said a frog from a pool
To a wriggling crab:
“Have a bask in the sun,
You animated cab;
I sprint over rocks;
’Neath the water I sport,
Hop, skip and jump
In loose-jointed sport.”
“You’re a freak,” said the crab,
“And not overwise:
I study my diet —■
You live upon flies.”
K.J.C.: The spelling is grotesque, but you have
considerable rhyming sense. Don’t let the idea fade
out, as you did in the MS. sent; and aim at tcise-
ness O. Han: Melancholy effusions J. 5.0.: A
mad, thing, master... .M.D.S.: You haven’t made
us believe it’s true Wadee: It has been put to
the judges; and, though they are not at all likely
to give their opinion of every entry, they probably,
besides awarding the three prizes, will list the highly
commended” and the “commended” A.D.C.:
Whether seat-purchase has been done for centuries
is not the point. It shouldn’t have been done,
because, for one thing, it gives the rich fool an
advantage over the poor genius llamos: Too un-
tidy. We’d rather have ideas without form than
form without ideas; but that’s not to say that
we like our ideas without form Lys. K.:
Dirt Kabbi Kah: In its present form it is not
quite suitable; have another shot at it....M.J.
(Launceston): Cut down and polish “The Muster.”
.... Sonia H.: The silence shows that it has gone
past the first barriers, even if it gets no further
A.M.E.: Suggestion that Australians should “Awake
and help the Great Australian, S. M. Bruce,” formally
noted. . . .J.8.T.: Not spirited enough R.L.P.:
Almost Eleanor P.: Doggerel H. 0.8.: The
humor is pallid G.K.: Clumsy in places
H.P.P.: The “leaves —trees” rhyme has been entered
in the competition... .Jessie I. D.: Trite...-Alpha.
It met its Omega. .. .D.E.: The Bulletin's ,T.
Edmond didn’t buy that yearling. He is not inter-
ested in horses, ponies, dogs or goats... .Ero: Glad
to hear that the article helped to get you a job.
The best of luck!
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.W.M.: Joke antiquated; drawing scratchy....
A.W.0.H.: Gags have bought beer for honest artists
these many years... .C.G.: We sympathise with the
child if her sire looks like that... .K. 11.: Badly
drawn. • ■ .G. 8.: Your work is about as cheerful as
the national debt P. 8.: Infantile scribbles....
G.M.W.: Very amateurish.


f
a
m
m
■ i
4
m
■
m
lUfl
%
M
■ i
||g||§
i
HH
Jlll ;
*
■Hi
■
H
mm
BH
_
.., ■
i 1
ift
mm
iS
m
■
i ■
@t&.; -I
HH
H
■II
111
X
■
!•; ••: •
' ':
’
A
■
:
m
wx,,. - \
■
. 1
SHIS
m
■
■
■
■
mmm
■K
rwe
NEW SOUTH WALES LIQUOR
REFERENDUM, Sept, 1, 1928.
OF PROHIBITION BEWARE—
PUT YOUR CROSS IN THE BOTTOM
SQUARE.


The Bulletin
Vol. 49. —No. 2528.
July 25, 1928.
THE CHAINS.
“A new company is considering the question of reopening Mount Morgan mine, and believes that with economy the property can be made to pay. There is over
£16,000,000 worth of metals proved to remain in it.”
THE GIANT: “I would carry some of their burdens for them if only they would knock off my chains.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Alan.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
Brisbane Office: 249 Adelaide Street.
London Office : 36 Southampton Street, Strand,
W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 1,5.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MB. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of I\lS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in the Main Hall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdov.
Street, London, E.C.Ii; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.4;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 46 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” 414-11 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.C.3.
South Africa.. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban;
llhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
U.S.A.— Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, stli Avenue and 21th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and, 42nd Street, New York City; Hoteling’s
News Agency, 203 West 41st Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 104 Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The Nero Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News
Stand, 5414 South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Smith Bros.’ News Co., Box 513 Arcade Station, Los
Angeles, Cal.; and from the Barber on Union S.S.
Co.’s and Matson Co.’s mail boats.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang. S.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. —T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street.
Colombo; PldtS, Ltd., Bookstall, Galle Face Hotel,
Colombo; M. Atmaram and Sons, 44 Chatham Street,
Fort Colombo; A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York
Street, Fort Colombo; The Colonial Photographic
Co., York Arcade, Fort Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Part Moresby,
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising- Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 75-19 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.4.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
tOoz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 1,0 z.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 20z., Id.
TTuT^izlleizm,.
WEDNESDAY, JUDY 25, 1928.
QUEENSLAND AND A FAIR GO.
Queensland is likely to have a general
election this year. The Government, whose
party has been in office since 1915, is not
obliged to go to the country till the middle
of 1929, but it might be to its advantage
and that of its Federal wing to get in ahead
of the Bruce-Pages, although the Common-
wealth election ought to take precedence,
last having been held in November,
1925. Hitherto the Great Labor Victory
at the State election has time after time
followed a Great Anti-Labor Victory at the
Federal election; and as the franchise is
the same in both cases, the striking
anomaly has grown a little embarrassing,
A „ * „ *
Ihe last redistribution of seats was the
legislative achievement of Theodore, now
asr ,/ or tbe purchased seat of Dailey
(N.S.W.). It was a real work of art, in-
asmuch as it deprived the Nat.-Cockies of
safe seats and doomed them to defeat even
if they secured a substantial majority of
votes; and time has only served to make its
beauties more pronounced. On the evidence
of rolls compiled to March 31, Opposition
districts average 7474 electors and Mini-
sterial districts 6099. The Electoral Dis-
tricts Act, like the corresponding Common-
wealth measure, allows a margin of one-fifth
above and below the quota (the total en-
rolment divided by 72). There are 11
electorates with more than the statutory
maximum, 7983; nine are Opposition. There
are 18 electorates with less than the statu-
tory minimum, 5323; 16 are Ministerial.
The one Opposition district of Enoggera
contains almost as many electors (11,102)
as three divisions represented by Cabinet
Ministers—Flinders (2536), Mount Morgan
(3788) and Brisbane (5250). The proba-
bilities are that it really beats all three,
and that the same is true of another
Opposition district, Logan (11,039 electors).
* * ' * *
At the last election 93.18 p.c. of the electors
in Enoggera and 93.64 p.c. in Logan went to
the poll, whereas Flinders recorded only 74.86
p.c., Brisbane 78.46 p.c. and Mount Morgan
86.20 p.c., although voting is compulsory.
The disparity in these percentages calls
attention to another feature of the Queens-
land electoral system—the enrolment of
large bodies of electors, particularly in
Labor pocket boroughs, whom the Common-
wealth registrars cannot trace. For example,
when the Bruce-Pages won in 1925 the
electoral population of Queensland was
reckoned at 440,851, but when the State
rolls were closed two or three months later
the number had shot up to 478,097. The
separate-roll business is cumbersome and
expensive, but the Continuous crowd ignores
all suggestions that it should let the Com-
monwealth look after the State rolls, as is
done in Victoria, South Australia and the
Speck, and is to be done in N. S. Wales and
(State Frights in the Leg. Council per-
mitting) in Westralia. Similarly, it turns
a deaf ear to the cry for an honest redis-
tribution of seats. It is conveniently silent
also when asked to explain the peculiar
fact that employment on the Government
railways, famous for their deficits (although
Westralia, with the same gauge and a
greater mileage in proportion to population,
shows profits), is always at its highest in
general-election years. Taking the operat-
ing staff alone, the Commonwealth Statis-
tician records that there were 15,841 wages
men in the service on June 30, 1919, and
17,388 on June 30, 1920. There was a general
election on October 9, 1920. By June 30,
1921, the total had shrunk to 14,598, and at
the end of another 12 months it was only
14,862; but June, 1923, saw a jump to
17,621. The general election took place on
May 12, 1923. There was another fall to
16,380 in 1924, followed by a slight rise in
1925 (as in 1922) to 16,522; then came an-
other vigorous spring to 18,419 in June,
1926. The general election occurred on May
8, 1926. The familiar decline (to 16,105)
was noted on June 30, 1927. What miracles
were worked in the construction branch,
where the opportunities are even greater
than in the operating branches, are not on
record. In a number of constituencies the
parties are almost equally divided, and even
1000 votes, skilfully distributed, can turn
a whole election.
» sS sis ©
It is hardly surprising in the circumstances
that the Opposition is despondent and to
a great extent demoralised. But the handi-
cap, though tremendous, almost appalling,
can be wiped out. There is still a large
proportion of Labor men who are not dis-
honest; who believe in a fair go; who even
believe that if the Labor party has not the
confidence of the people it should not
govern. The most promising way out of the
present shocking state of affairs therefore
would be for the Opposition to pledge it-
self, if returned to power, to immediately
call in an independent judicial body to re-
adjust electorates according to numbers, on
the basis of the Commonwealth rolls, and,
that done, to have at once another general
election. It is hopeless to ask the country,
on the present rotten distribution of seats,
to return the Opposition on its general
policy. Its one hope is to appeal to the
country to restore the cardinal principle of
democratic government. The Bulletin
believes that thousands of men and women
who in general support the Labor policy
would vote for honest electoral boundaries.
Until that is accomplished a fair go is im-
possible; and the average man stands for
a fair go if he stands for anything.
PESSIMISTS AND PATRIOTS.
A cheerful soul most times is Mr. Wilkins
Brucecawber, Prime Minister, and if he
has moments of depression they can be ex-
cused; most optimists have them. He is
also blessed with a generally happy and
sanguine colleague. They lately issued
formal assurance that the deficit of
£2,642,000 is just a passing cloud, and as
it is caused by the fact that the country
can’t import and pay duty on imports at the
old amazing rate, because it doesn’t earn and
can’t borrow enough to pay with, there is
immense relief in hearing that the trouble
will pass automatically, without anything
special being done. Some people thought
it was serious. The optimists laid stress on
the fact that £4,600,000 of paper money had
been made available for reduction of the
paper or manageable end of the debt, and
laid nothing in particular on the other fact
that about 10 times this sum had been
added to the unmanageable or gold end of
the debt in the process. And they skipped
the point that the very great increase in
the number of unemployed seems to imply
that Customs revenue will decrease still more
through sheer inability to buy imported
goods, and tends to show that the issue of
larger and larger loans as a palliative is
approaching the end that most dissipated
and deadening palliatives come to, includ-
ing opium and Bolshevik banknotes.
* * * *
In these difficult circumstances the
Wilkins Brucecawber Government urges
all Australians to be good patriots and not
“knockers,” and to avoid damaging the
national credit by adverse comment here
or abroad, but to put a good face on the
situation, and to lie low and say nothing.
The washing of the public garment in the
public view is strongly deprecated. It is
a hackneyed argument, much used by poli-
tical men who need to avoid criticism. A
vulgar saying has it that it is an inferior
class of bird that fouls its own nest; but,
if it finds the nest being systematically
fouled, it isn’t much of a bird if it doesn’t
make some disturbance over the matter
and seek a remedy. Nothing is gained as
a rule by digging up the unsavory past
provided it is past to a dead certainty;
but there is much to be said for digging up
the unsavory future. A great deal of un-
savory future may be prevented that way.
When things are very far wrong it is im-
possible to get them put right without say-
ing that they are wrong, and in a case like
the present it is much more difficult, and
requires much more continuous roar, to get
a hearing from the local man than from
the outsider. The local man, if he is a
chronically loafing man in his politics, hates
listening to anything which means sustained
effort. The outsider hears the roar as a
matter of course. History is dotted with
the records of rulers who objected to any
criticism of the rottenness of their methods.
When complete disaster came the customary
proceeding was for the ruler to abdicate
with a noble gesture, if he knew one, and
retire from the scene, unless forestalled by
execution, leaving the debris and the prob-
lem behind him. And when an optimistic
constitutional Government has reached the
last financial ditch, it doesn’t proceed to
get the country out of the ditch. It resigns,
and leaves the mess to its successor, and
takes up the congenial job of critic.
* * * *
The Prime Minister has stated that the
extravagant Murray Valley scheme-would
never have been commenced if he had been
on the political deck at the time, for he
would have “looked further ahead.” It is
now being cut down. He has also declared
the Oodnadatta-Alice Springs railway, an
apologetic little instalment of the long-
delayed transcontinental railway, to be
“economically unsound.” The transcon-
tinental line is also going into a state of
suspense. Apparently the Prime Minister
would gladly put back the clock of Time,
and have no railway at all, and leave the
empty North to chance and the dingoes.
That is Wilkins in his depressed or Mrs.
GtrMMiDGE aspect. Yet it isn’t long since
he had to be sternly held back by the coat-
tail to prevent him committing the nation
to a possible liability of half a million for
a Great Exhibition, and the worst might
have happened if the tail had been of in-
ferior material. London financiers expressed
undisguised astonishment mixed with other
feelings when the Australian Government
turned up the other day with a request for
£7,000,000, making £29,000,000 within 12
months in that market alone, and the
underwriters were left with five-sixths of
the burden. And early in July £lOO
Federal bonds were sold as low as £B7 in
New York. The Prime Minister’s request
that patriotic Australians shall say nothing
to damage the country’s credit abroad brings
up with a shock against these evidences that
it is damaged abroad already. In his
Wilkins Brucecawber moods the Prime
Minister views the -situation as one which
will right itself when a good harvest arrives
and the Commonwealth has a chance to be
a young lion and assert itself. But situa-
tions of that size resemble capsized ships.
They seldom come right and bail themselves
out by force of circumstances.
CHANG.
Chang Tso-lin, untidily removed by a
bomb, was one of those proteges of Japan
who lived to curse the hand that was lifted
to bless them. The ex-bandit with the face
of a scholar and the slender fingers of a
surgeon was useful to the Mikado’s mili-
tary advisers in Manchuria, where Nippon
has invested millions of yen, owns most of
the railways, ports and strategic centres, and
has leases sufficient to permit of indefinite
expansion. Hence any development in the
civil war which threatened Pekin, and
therefore Manchuria, always ended in
futility. “International” incidents occurred
requiring Japanese intervention, and
Tuchuns previously unable to pay the
wages of their domestic servants suddenly
materialised with well-equipped armies.
This merry concerto, with variations,
served to keep Chang as the ostensible
ruler of Manchuria and the dictator of
Pekin; but it did not satisfy the ambitions
of the realists behind the Mikado’s throne.
They ached to encircle Pekin by adding the
province of Shantung to the list of Japan-
ese colonies in Asia. They used precisely
the methods which made Korea part of the
Empire, and which have, to all intents and
purposes, added Manchuria. The war allowed
them to take Tsingtao over from the Ger-
mans, just as the Bolshevik revolution
gave them a reason for seizing Vladivostok
and occupying Siberia as far as Lake Baikal.
In those halcyon days a Pan-Asiatic league,
regimented by Japan, seemed no idle
dream, and publicists in Tokio seized their
brushes and wrote ecstatically of driving
the white man beyond the Urals. The
Washington Conference upset these cal-
culations, and Japan was more or less
pledged to retire even from Shantung.
In the interim, however, the Japanese
military party had become pretty well en-
trenched. They had a lien on the princi-
pal railway, owned most of the coalmines
and had a large settlement at Tsinan, the
capital, 200 miles from the coast. The
successes of the Nationalists in the South
threatened all this. Cilang was therefore
moved to cancel from Mukden to Pekin, and
a henchman of his was in charge in Shan-
tung. A Chang dynasty was talked of.
And all might have gone well if the Japan-
ese had not been so frank about their in-
tentions. They sent more troops to Shan-
tung, strongly held the railway and occu-
pied the capital. A muddled shindy de-
veloped, in which, incidentally, 100,000
Chinese troops got their first taste of what
modern warfare is really like, at the hands
of 10,000 Japs.
The result should have been a glorious
victory for Chang, since the Japanese bom-
barded, stormed and easily took Tsinan
and the army of the South was com-
pletely checked. Instead, a reaction
occurred which surprised the Japanese. Far
from showing gratitude, Chang talked
darkly of an alliance with the Southerners.
The Pekin Government, though secretly
delighted at the defeat of the South, lodged
an anti-Japanese protest with the League.
Chinamen of all parties in Manila, Singa-
pore and Batavia voted funds for a war
against “the dwarfs”; Girl Guides, parading
with wooden muskets, poked imaginary
bayonets through imaginary Japanese;
merchants cancelled their orders for Japan-
ese goods, and a Southern Minister, alleged
to have been murdered by the Japs, was
canonised. Chang himself departed hur-
riedly to Mukden and an inglorious death.
The unexpected ending to the Chang
enterprise is of interest to Australia be-
cause of its effect on the Japanese. The
discovery that the Chinese prefer to have
their faces trodden on by Chinese heels
rather than by the heels even of Asiatic
cousins has led to a fresh revulsion in Japan
against the military party’s policy. Always
when the stock of the military clan goes
down, up goes that of the naval clan. So
the Pan-Asian dream is now declared to be
a nightmare. Nationalist China is to be
regarded not as another Korea, but as a
possible future ally and a present reservoir
of raw material and avenue of trade. Japan’s
destiny, it is now declared, lies not on the
neighboring mainland, but on the sea and
in the air.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Matter of £5000.
W. G. Mahony, ex-M.H.R., appears to have
fallen in for a period of consecutive dis-
aster. Events have combined against him.
The beginning was when Theodore, who had
resigned the Queensland Premiership to
enter Federal politics, found that Federal
politics didn’t want him very badly. It
was, however, considered urgent to find a
safe seat for the great but partially spiked
gun of the party, so Mahony is said to have
resigned for a consideration of £5OOO or so.
Thereupon Theodore was nominated in
circumstances which have been denounced
as violently irregular, and has since been
re-nominated in similar or worse circum-
stances. Certainly Mahony came into pos-
session of much money that was partly
concealed in a safe deposit instead of be-
ing put somewhere to earn interest. It
wasn’t concealed long enough, however; part
of it emerged to buy a pub, and another
sum as Mahony’s contribution to his own
testimonial for his noble conduct in giving
up his seat gratis to help Theodore.
When trouble began Mahony’s bank
accounts were inspected, and they showed
him to be just a plodder with a
Parliamentary salary, and not a specu-
lator who might lose track of a big trans-
action among his winnings and losings. But
even though this was apparently the one
sensational spot in a dull career, the ex-
member could only state vaguely that he
won the pile by backing Spearfelt at Flem-
ington in 1926. He failed to recollect the
bookmakers. They weren’t advertised for,
nor was a swift runner sent round the tents
of Israel in search, nor did any penciller
advertise himself by turning up to say that,
among his transactions, he did recall a
trifling matter of £5OOO. In the end the in-
quiring Judge decided that the money had
passed as alleged and for the purpose
alleged, and that, the explanation offered
was too dashed thin, and amounted to an
insult thrown at the human intelligence.
Then, as another of the series of misfit
circumstances, there appeared an Adelaide
solicitor of strong Labor views, who said
he was well acquainted with Mr. Mahony.
though Mr. Mahony said he knew the
solicitor “only slightly.” This gentleman’s
affidavit professed to attest that the ex-
member told him before the race that' he
stood to win “over four figures” on Spear-
felt. An amount of somewhere over £lOOO


is insufficient to account either for the sum
spent on the pub or for the sum subscribed
to the self-presented testimonial, and it
doesn’t account for the concealment in the
safe deposit, nor does the solicitor attest
that he saw Mahony receive that or any
other money. But he backed the horse
himself, and so did a man who is now dead
—a thing that might happen to anybody at,
almost any time—and presumably collected
from a bookie whose name isn t given either.
It is doubtful if the solicitor could have
helped much, but in the melancholy chapter
of accidents he didn’t appear to testify on
oath, and instead of communicating with
his distressed friend he is said to have sent
a letter to Labor-leader Scullin. Ihe
language in which Mahony declares that
Scullin might have helped but preferred
to suppress priceless testimony would
decorate a papal anathema. And meanwhile
the dead and continued silence of the book-
maker or -makers who paid Mahony his
winnings makes the tomb seem garrulous
by comparison. Even all this new turmoil
doesn’t waken them.
4
Bravo, Bavin!
The emphatic refusal of N.S.W. Premier
Bavin to listen to the prayers of a depu-
tation that the inestimable privilege of
betting on the tin hare be restored to the
community is comforting to those who
recognise the curse which the growth of
gambling in the State and throughout Aus-
tralia has become. Not so comforting to
the social student was the inclusion, among
the pleaders for additional facilities for in-
dulgence in a ruinous vice, of a number of
people who have indubitable claims to be
regarded as respectable citizens. Still less
comforting was the principal plea of the
deputation in support of its invidious
appearance in such an unholy cause. This
was that many reputable people had been
induced to invest money m tin-hare shares
in the expectation that the
present Government would
continue the largehearted
policy of its predecessors,
who not only permitted
gambling on the new infatu-
ation, but were affably en-
gaged in broadcasting oppor-
tunities for the extension of
it.
To say that, because a
previous Government was
corrupt or regardless of its
duty to the community, its
successor should follow suit
in order to safeguard the
commitments of people who
took advantage of that cor-
ruption or neglect of duty,
is to put forward a plea of
doubtful honesty. No one
has yet heard of a deputa-
tion approaching the N.S.W.
Government to urge the re-
establishment of the Sydney
City Council because some
individuals are alleged to
have “invested” money in certain aldermen
which has been imperilled, if not actually lost
by the said Government’s action in appoint-
ing the Civic Commission. Yet such a
request would be on exactly the same plane
as the one put forward by the tin-hare depu-
tation. The N.S.W. Premier has added
greatly to his reputation by giving to the
one request the uncompromising refusal that
every decent citizen would have expected
he would have given to the other, if any-
one had been found with assurance enough
to proffer it.
4
The Slip in Meat Export.
The last report issued by Weddels shows
how Australia has slipped in the meat-
export trade. In 1913 150,666 tons of meat
were shipped from the Commonwealth to
Britain; in 1927 only 63,535 tons. For the
same years Maoriland’s exports were
122,234 and 153,409 tons respectively, while
Argentina shipped 409,211 tons in 1913 and
■654,740 tons last year. Total exports from
these three countries in 1923 were: Aus-
tralia 114,262 tons, Maoriland 149,217 tons,
Argentina 683,751 tons; in 1927 85,734 tons,
160,500 tons and 807,741 tons. Maoriland,
with a population of only one quarter the
Commonwealth’s and an area only equal to
that of N.S.W., is exporting nearly four
times as much mutton and lamb as the whole
of Australia, and Argentina exports twice as
much mutton and about 50 per cent, more
lambs, although Australia is the greatest
sheep-breeding countiy in the world.
Britain produces 54.83 of the meat she
consumes. Argentina supplies 32.83 per
cent, and M.L. 7.49 per cent., while Australia
contributes only 3.10 per cent. The money
value of the imports for 1927 was: Argen-
tina, £29,614,464; M.L., £10,305,081; Aus-
tralia, £3,268,885. Notwithstanding its great
disadvantages, Maoriland exported meat to
the value of more than three times that of
Australia, and Argentina’s trade was more
than nine times that of the Common-
wealth.
In Queensland there are 100,000 square
miles of coast downs and tableland coun-
try superior to any in Maoriland for rear-
ing crossbred sheep and lambs of a quality
suitable for export to Britain. Rainfall is
dependable and ample, much of the soil
will grow fodder grasses and plants to
perfection, climate is mild and stock suffer
little from disease. With organised effort
half a million carcases of mutton and a
million lambs might be exported annually
from Queensland alone.
But success demands more than soil and
more than climate. It calls for a return
to sanity and along with it an optimism
which will lead to more adventure. There
is no hope for a return to sanity, though,
until we face the facts of Australia’s case,
and we shall'not face the facts so long as
we can push them aside pleasantly with
loans. Nevertheless the figures quoted
ought to make some of us think. If the
whole world was slipping together, there
might be some excuse for us. But the
comparisons show that others are benefit-
ing at our ultimate expense. We are the
mugs.
The Importance of Being Drunk.
The coming of the motor-car has com-
pletely changed the status of a drunken
street pedestrian; for whereas he was
formerly at worst a mere nuisance, he has
now become a public peril. His clearness
of sight and judgment as well as his hear-
ing are in temporary custody of his last
three whiskies, and it is not only his own
life that is at risk, for his presence in the
street involves risk of injury or death to
others. It is not going too far to say that
the average motorist dreads drunken pedes-
trians more than any of the other dangers
he has to encounter.
The drunken motorist is a public calamity,
for he holds in his wanton hands the
power to mutilate and to slay. He is as
dangerous as dynamite in the hands of a
child. One need not enlarge upon the
obvious.
It is necessary, then, under the changed
conditions, to revise the laws relating to
drunken persons whether car drivers or
foot passengers. Drunkenness in public
places is now very much more than a mere
matter to be dealt with under the police
offences or vagrancy acts. It has become a
THE UNWELCOME CUSTOMER.
“The Commonwealth loan of £7,000,000
was coldly received in London. Only 13 p.c.
of it was subscribed.”
AUSTRALIA: “Here, do you call I
that a pint?”
JOHN COHEN: “No, my son I
call it a hint.”
crime of magnitude, and should be
dealt with and punished accordingly.
The matters so far stated are self-
evident and not open to serious
controversy. The more difficult
problem is reached when a definition
of the crime is sought. The public
danger occurs when a man is so far
under the influence of liquor that he is not
in perfect control and possession of his
powers and senses. Quite clearly it would
be futile to attempt to determine that
question in the ordinary police-court way,
but in the cities at least there would be
no difficulty in either adjudging the matter,
or in collecting evidence, on the spot. An
official car, with a doctor and some other
dependable person, could be called to any
part of the city within a very few minutes,
and the necessary investigation made.
In former times in England if a justice
of the peace saw a drunk and disorderly
person in the street he could convict “upon
view” and adjudge the penalty as though
sitting in court. This practice is not now
in vogue, but it affords a precedent for a
reform in procedure that has become urgent.
4
Gas-producer Vehicles.
Dear Bulletin,— Only. those who have
studied motor transport abroad during the
past few years can understand the full sig-
nificance of the Prime Minister’s statement
lately made at Albany that “six-wheeled
vehicles and charcoal gas-producer vehicles
would go a long way towards sob ing Aus-
tralia’s transport problem.” Those who
have seen oversea conditions would be in-
clined to say: “For Heaven’s sake, get busy
on their introduction!”
The six-wheeler has become so far stand-
ard that it is a regulation plant in the
British Army, and its advent has done a
very great* deal—nearly everything—to
make mechanised army-transport possible.
One of its merits is that it can go any-
where short of up a blank wall; and, carry-
ing the heaviest load, it will not leave a
soft earth road looking like a Somme
trench, as the heavy four-wheeler always
does. We look on Turkey as a backward
nation, but not long ago I saw six-wheelers
there hauling loads over country which
we, with some of the best driving skill in
Australia aboard, would not have dared to
tackle with a specially-equipped and high-
powered motor-car lightly loaded.
As for the gas-producer, which is the
ideal in combination with the six-wheeler,
the tests by the Development and Migra-
tion Commission with a specially imported
British Guy-Tulloch-Reading plant speak
for themselves. The cost of charcoal fuel
worked out at an equivalent of about 3d.
per gallon for petrol. The outfit proved to
be neither bulky nor, dirty, and the ash
and clinkers from the' charcoal weighed
only ounces to the ton. As most of Aus-
tralia has retortable charcoal timbers it
means that, by combining the six-wheeler
and the Guy-Tulloch-Reading system,
Alice Springs, for instance, can find its own
fuel on the spot with a binghi and an axe,
do its own charcoal retorting and cut out
petrol, which at present is Bs. a gallon
there. The Centralian sandhills, by the
way, are no sort of obstacle to a six-
wheeler.
The Empire Cotton Corporation, which
is a sort of C.S.R. in that trade in the
Sudan and East Africa, has already made
its tests while we are hesitating; actually
it is importing Australian charcoal for its
gas-producer six-wheelers, while we are
only at the testing stage! Thousands of
tons of cotton will be carried this year in
gas-producer vehicles in the Sudan, and as
much of it with Australian charcoal as can
be managed.—Yours, etc., M. H. Ellis.
. What Papua Wants.
“P.D.”: At last I have found out what it is
Papua lacks, what it has needed these many
years past. It is a Publicity Officer. I dis-
covered this want after reading that Rabaul
had such a treasure, and the need in Papua
is greater than in New Guinea. New Guinea
has the League of Nations and a few mas-
sacres to help it in publicity, to say
nothing of a goldmine and a few earth-
quakes, natural and artificial. Papua
these things.
What would he do? Well, first he would
make it clear to the world that Papua is
part qL the Commonwealth of Australia—
that is, it is and it isn’t. It is when it
comes to Navigation Acts, wireless, and mail
contracts, but it isn’t when it’s a question
of voting. It is when Australia wants to
sell it something, but it isn’t when Papua
wants to sell Australia something. The
Publicity Officer could explain all that.
Next, this officer might explain' to Aus-
tralia that Papua isn’t New Guinea. At least,
again it is and it isn’t. Papua, of course,
is on New Guinea and used to be known
as New Guinea, but Australia found an-
other love and called that New Guinea,
though the capital of that other Territory
isn’t in New Guinea but in New Britain.
However, the Publicity Man would soon
make all that clear.
Another job for him would be to explain
what a wonderful system of government
Papua has got—we have been told already
that throughout the world Papua is known
for its Administration. This Publicity Man
could explain how we achieve popular legis-
lation—how it is all passed by a Legisla-
tive Council consisting of numerous Gov-
ernment officers under the Lieutenant-
Governor; how the Governor makes up
the odd number by picking out some nice
quiet gentleman, making him an Honor-
able and inviting him to come to a meet-
ing once a year; and how, when that is
done, the caucus, or Executive Council,
arranges all the laws, and if the nice honor-
able gentleman when he hears them read
over doesn’t happen to like them, and
plucks up enough courage to say so, then
the law is passed, anyhow, by all the Gov-
ernment members of Council, because that
was decided in caucus before he came.
Also the Publicity Gentleman could ex-
plain how it was once arranged for one of
these honorable members to sit on the
Executive Council so as to hear what this
caucus had to say, but unfortunately he
has never been able to get invited to an
Executive Council meeting. The Publicitj'
Man’s art on this point would prove invalu-
able.
And, last, this Publicity Man could ex-
plain to all of us Australians in Papua how
good Australia really is to let us reside
here; how thankful we should all be for a
country where there is only one mail from
the outside world in a month; how glad we
should be that we haven’t got to worry
about voting for people who spend the
taxes gathered from us; finally, how proud
we should be to have the privilege of the
Australian flag flying over us while a ship
with the Stars and Stripes at her stern
takes away our produce to save Australians
the bother.
♦
What Can Be Done for India?
The Bengal Legislative Council, composed
mainly of glib natives, has censured the
Bengal Government for allowing famine
in the province. The grisly spectre used
to be as frequent a caller in • India as it
still is in China. Owing to poor communi-
cations it was possible for one province
to starve while a neighboring onei rolled
in plenty. The British Government tackled
the situation by building roads, railways
and immense irrigation works, thus throw-
ing fresh land open to settlement. The
native responded by increasing his rate of
breeding until the new land was as over-
crowded as the old. A people amongst
whom everybody marries at or immediately
after puberty could over-populate a virgin,
planet.
In Bengal the rage for mere reproduc-
tion causes more private cruelty than any
governmental act or the irregularity of the
seasons. It has been estimated that 10,000
abortions occur monthly in Bengal, and in
Cutch and Gujerat 33,000 feminine child-
ren are annually put to death, either by
being smothered in milk or poisoned by
opium smeared on the mother’s breast.
These are checks to over-population such
as are used in normal times. In Europe
250 persons to the square mile is considered
the limit of density on agricultural areas.
In India anything up to 1200 is regarded
as a fair thing. When the lean year comes
a government of archangels could not
remedy a situation like that.
4
“R. H. Vick”: “P.M.” (B. 4/7/’2B) says
that an absurdly high standard is required
of recruits in Australia, and asks why those
who are not topnotchers should not be
trained for the countless side-jobs of the
army. It would be a waste of time and
money to train more than a small nucleus
of such men in peace, as they can always
be recruited on the outbreak of war. The
most important of such occupations are
engineers and mechanics, railway workers
of all kinds, doctors, nurses, motor drivers
and horse drivers. These only require a
uniform and a few old hands to show them
the ropes, and their military education is
complete. So why waste money training
them as soldiers?
4
The British authorities have long memories
and employ summary methods when a per-
son deemed undesirable seeks to set foot
on their shores. Recently Harry Thaw,
the millionaire moron who shot the famous
American architect Stanford White 28
years ago, arrived at Southampton to spend
a holiday in England. He was not per-
mitted to leave the steamer, and no reason
was given him by the authorities for their
action. Even Britain, once the refuge of
every individual who had made his own
country too hot for him, has found it neces-
sary to put the chain on the front door. It
would appear that it is to our own Aus-
tralia that every political and revolutionary
adventurer is now turning in the sure and
certain hope of an affable welcome and a
good job in the Trades Hall or the local
Communist Club.
4
Australians who invent anything that
might be of value for the defence of their
native land find themselves in a foolish
position when they try to sell it. Owing
to Australian military and naval equipment
being standardised on the- British model,
all the Defence Department can do is to
give the inventor a letter of recommenda-
tion to the British War Office. If that body
turns the article down because it doesn’t
suit British needs, the inventor is at liberty
to offer it to a foreign country if he has
any passage money left. British motor-
car manufacturers took a long time to dis-
cover that this country required a special
type of petrol waggon, and War Office
officials aren’t likely to worry as to whether
Australia needs any special kinds of lethal
weapons.


"ON THE MINUTE” DEPENDABILITY
wer
For Absolute Reliability STANDARDISE ON
S 578
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
The clocklike adherence to schedule of
the Supermarine Flying Boats on their
flight to Australia, is a tribute to the
unfailing dependability of SHELL Spirit
in all climates at all seasons.
e
SPIRIT
POLITCAL POINTS
The Trade-Union Congress in Melbourne
did one sensible thing before the Reds got
control towards the end—-ft accepted an
invitation to a conference with wagepayers
to discuss the condition of industry, unem-
ployment, the arbitration system and cog-
nate matters. The invitation was issued by
the Associated Chambers of Manufactures
through president Macdougall, and it is
suggested that there should be “not more
than 12” delegates from each side. Mac-
dougall will have his work cut out to pre-
vent windbags dominating the proceedings,
as happened at the last meeting of the kind
when Hughes was Prime Minister; but he
can be depended upon to do his best. The
Bulletin suggests that a day should be
devoted to a heart-to-heart talk with the
Governor of the Commonwealth Bank.
William Watson,
Independent M.H.R.
for Fremantle, may not
stand at the next elec-
tion, and if he doesn’t
Labor will very prob-
ably recapture the seat
—it has picked a
strong candidate in
Jack Curtin, editor of
the Westralian Work-
er. Watson is not
much of a politician—
though the tactful
Prime Minister once
likened him to Lin-
coln—but he has a
strong following in
Fremantle, where he is
a butter merchant, be-
cause of his warm
heart and fine charac-
ter. He cut heavily
into the Labor vote
in 1922 and 1925, and
will do so again if he
decides that politics
isn’t such a bad pas-
time after all.
Watson, of the
West.
The present Premier of Japan is alleged to
have been opposed to the recent interven-
tion in Shantung, but the War Ministry
was not; so intervention happened. The
War Ministry can ignore the Prime Minister
and his Cabinet in these matters, being re-
sponsible to a higher authority, the Mikado.
This state of affairs has engendered doubts
as to the Kellogg peace plan in its applica-
tion to Japan. All the same, Japan has
accepted the Kellogg plan, along with 13
other nations, and Britain and America
have found it faithful to its engagements.
Vic. Labor Ministers are not nearly so
popular as they were. As the months go on
the misdeeds of the previous Government are
forgotten, while the Hogans build up a re-
cord of sins for themselves. Moreover, some
of tile bunch are so busy trying to do clerks’
work or attending to details that should be
carried out by officials that they have no
time while Parliament is sitting for the
little graces and courtesies that smooth away
irritations. And quarrelling with public
officers in public hasn’t done them any good.
Acting under instructions from the Gory
International at Moscow, the Communist
party is to set up for itself at the coming
Queensland election, and do its best to bang
the McCormack Government hard. Queens-
land has a loud Red element, and if the Com-
munists would put up a candidate for every
seat they would render a service to the
science of statistics by showing exactly how
large it is. Either from bashfulness or lack
of funds they propose to make only a partial
effort, which is regrettable.
S. Aus. Premier Butler says he has bought
only one cargo of British coal and, so that
Newcastle (N.S.W.) may have ample time
to consider the situation, he won’t buy any
more for two months. Meanwhile he invites
Newcastle’s attention to the state of affairs
on Westralia’s one coalfield :
Piecework obtains at Collie, and the output at the
Proprietary mine is slightly over 500 tons per man
per year—a record in coalmining. Whereas the
price of Newcastle coal has been continually rising
there has been no increase in the price of Westralian
coal for the last seven or eight years. Strikes and
industrial disturbances are unknown at Collie.
Other things unknown at Collie are pits with
antediluvian outfits, Badlys and “Bondy”
Hoares, Labor Daily levies and eight or nine
race meetings per week.
Percy Coleman, Labor M.H.R. for Reid
(N.S.W.), was a witness at the inquiry into
the circumstances of W. G. Mahony’s resig-
nation as member for Dailey, and was con-
cerned in a minor issue. Senators Foil and
Duncan, George Cann, sometime N.S.W.
Minister for Health, and others testified that
Coleman had told
them that he, too,
had been asked to stand
down in the eminent
Theodore’s interest,
but had rejected the
proposal and its con-
comitants'. Coleman
denied that he had said
any such thing, buit
Judge Scholes records
his Belief that an offer
was made. Coleman
was secretary of the
N.S.W. Clerks’ Union
before he went to the
House of Reps., and
his Digger badge has
helped him politically.
He was one of the
very few Labor mem-
bers who increased
their majority in
1925, the party’s black
year.
Coleman, M.H.R.
The affable Prime Minister is confident
that “with a good season, of which there is
every indication, the existing financial
troubles will disappear.” Well, 1924-25 was
Australia’s record good year, when the
national earnings went up in the agricul-
tural, pastoral, mining, dairying; forest,
fish, bee and hen lines all at once. In that
year the country failed to pay for its im-
ports and meet its external interest bill out
of its own resources by about £14,500,000.
And owing to the increase in the interest bill
another such year would leave the country
with a much bigger shortage. Good seasons
are desirable, but they will have to be
seconded by an embargo on unnecessary
borrowing and unnecessary imports.
With pride suffusing his countenance,
Vic. Treasurer Hogan told Parliament that
the deficit for 1927-28 was £204,000. On
the railways there was a shortage of £544,000,
but other departments had a surplus of
£340,000; expenditure was £447,000 less
than the estimate. The State coalmine
had a surplus of £75,000. Opposition-
leader McPherson complained that Hogan had
calculated the transactions of the financial
year on a basis very different from what he
employed when he was Opposition leader. But
things like that always will happen while
politicians make up the national balance-
sheet —the easiest thing in the world to
fake.
A quaint example of the workings of the
pacifist mind was provided at a conference
in Melbourne of the National Council of
Women. The question was whether girls
shouldn’t undergo compulsory training m
domestic economy just as boys have to under-
go military training. The word “military”
shook the meeting to its snakeskin shoes.
One speaker pointed out that as the N.C.O.W.
was pledged to uphold the League of Nations,
reference to military matters could not be
permitted. So the motion was made to
read “training for boys” instead of “mili-
tary training for boys,” and the ladies went
home delighted.
The N.S.W. Waterside Workers have de-
cided to repudiate Judge Beeby’s latest
award, as those of S.A. and Westralia had
already done, going on the simple principle
that an award is binding on the employers
at all times, and on the employees when they
feel like it. So another row is apparently in
preparation. The meeting then proceeded to
elect officers, but “the number of votes
polled was small, some 2000 members being
non-financial.” This remorseless disfran-
chisement of the hard-up brother who is
behind with his rates squares badly with the
demand that the municipal franchise should
he exercised as a matter of right by the
brother who never pays any, rates at all.
A recent development of Sydney crimi-
nality is the surreptitious crippling of
swings, see-saws and other apparatus in
the playgrounds which the corporation
maintains for child recreation, the object
being that Baby Australia may fall off and
suffer serious or even fatal injury. Sydney
is described as one of the world’s three great
centres of Bolshevik propaganda, and these
acts of nocturnal outrage are probably a
protest against the capitalistic system. The
city child is a poor harmless little victim on
whom to illustrate the deficiencies of the
social system, but the ways of the hot gos-
peller, whatever his brand, are erratic.
The Russian Government has bought 9}
million bushels of wheat in Canada, for
cash, because its promissory-note isn’t good
enough. Russia, which used to be one of the
world’s granaries, is in the position which
Freetrade and other cranks would like Aus-
tralia to attain. Its manufactures are poor,
and the People Who Know How being under
a sort of ban as “bourgeoisie,” they don’t im-
prove very fast, so 82 per cent, of the popu-
lation is on the land. The Russian far
mer can sell to the Government for paper
money, but he can't buy much manufac-
tured goods with the paper, for the “repub-
lic” doesn't make much and has little cash
and small credit to import with. So Russia
approaches the position of an almost purely
agricultural region with a difficulty in feed-
ing itself.
The demand of the Chinese Nationalists
for absolute equality with foreigners should
shortly run up against their need of ready
money. The expenses of keeping two ends of
an unwieldy country in order from the middle
are heavy and little is left over for develop-
ment. The local taxpayer has been squeezed
dry where he hasn’t been massacred, so the
only recourse is to borrow from the foreigner.
The foreigner hasn’t shown any burning
desire in the past to hand over his good cash
without suitable guarantees, and he isn’t likely
to do so in the future. The white man has
had to put up with a lot in China these
last few years, but if it comes to a show
down at a conference he still has cards
worth playing.
After expressing “uncompromising hos-
tility” to the Arbitration Act, calling on all
unions to carry on “an. unremitting and
intensive fight against the iniquitous mea-
sure,” and ordering them to hold a referen-
dum on the question of cancelling registra-
tion, the A.C.T.TJ. conference, in the next
breath, as it were, went on to suggest the
setting np of a “tribunal with extensive
powers of conciliation, whose awards and
findings shall have legal sanction and shall
be enforceable unconditionally.” Since the
whole basis of the uproar against the recent
Arbitration Act amendments is that they
tend to make awards enforceable upon the
parties by legal process, this sudden affec-
tion for enforcement is difficult t 0 under-
stand—unless, of course, as is quite likely,
the tribunal the proposer of the motion has
in view is to be composed of Jock Garden
(chairman), Jake Johanson and the organ-
iser of the International Seamen’s Club.
Peacock’s appointment as Speaker of
Vic. Leg. Assembly
has been followed by
the installation of an-
other e x-P remier,
.Tacky Evans, in the
Chair of the Speck's
Lower House. The
Ancient Mariner, now
73, is no stranger to
the job; Premier for
just on five yearsi
(1904-09), he was
Speaker for 10 of the
12 years 1913-25, the
break happening when
Labor was in office.
He also has the dis-
tinction of being
Father of the House,
having been there since
1896. The Govern-
ment is now without
a pledged majority on
the floor of the Cham-
ber, but the Speaker
is expected to be
equal to emergencies.
Tas. Speaker
Evans.
The four Country Progs have warned Vic.
Premier Hogan that he must not look to them
for support if he brings on a Redistribution of
Assembly Seats Bill on a one-vote-one-value
basis. Temporary loss of these allies would
not matter if Labor could carry its Seats
Bill with assistance from Oppositionists—it
has hopes of Kent Hughes, Macfarlan, Gray
and Greenwood. But the Progs might not
return. Hogan indeed finds himself between
the Devil and the deep blue sea. If he doesn’t
go on with the bill the A.L.P. will want to
know the reason why, and if he does go on
with it his Government may crash. Among
the 34 Leg. Councillors there are 22 Nats.,
five Cockies and one Prog, and they are not
going to let Labor have its own way in
regard to an Assembly Seats Bill bludgeoned
through by a vote or two.
Ex-High Commissioner Joe Cook is to
preside over the tri-
bunal which is to find
out whether S. Aus.
is so hard up that it
should have special
terms from the Com-
monwealth. But it
shouldn’t be
necessary for a
State to plead
liard-upness i n
order to gPt special
terms. A State with
no coal to speak of,
no metal mines of any
consequence and no
very rich territory
must make a poor
showing in a race off
Scratch with well-
en flowed competitors.
If it isn’t hard up it
certainly would be if
it was half as extrava-
gant as its rich neigh-
bors.
Joe Cook.
Queensland meat producers are objecting
to new Vie. regulations touching the sale of
chilled beef, which Health Minister Beckett
foolishly refers to as “stale meat.” In the
North the regulations are regarded as doubt-
fully constitutional, and lawyers are watch-
ing the progress of events with interest and
hope.
Undaunted by the chilly reception previous
bills haye received, Kiernan is making an-
other effort in Yic. Uppah House to have
capital punishment abolished. Yic Parlia-
ment is willing to eliminate the supreme
penalty in respect to some crimes to which
it is now applicable, but it is extremely
doubtful if both Houses will wipe it out
for murder.
The Yic. Hogans were nervy when con-
sidering the first death sentence referred to
them—that of George Eric Gordon, convicted
of murdering Richard Clements and his wife
at Bulumwaal, Gippsland. They decided
on what for them is the safe course of stick-
ing to Labor opposition to capital punish-
ment, and sentencing Gordon for the term
of his natural life. In Baron Somers’s
absence Lieut.-Governor Irvine, as his Ex.’s
deputy, registered the decision.
From July 1 Maoriland admitted British
macaroni duty free, foreign being charged 20
p.c. Most of the trade hitherto has been
in Australian macaroni. Thinking that the
Australian article was British, a local im-
porter kept his shipment in bond, and the
Customs speedily undeceived him. On macar-
oni from Australia, he was told, the duty
is 30 p.c. If we are going to have a little
trade, war between the Commonwealth and the
Dominion it will be discreditable to poli-
ticians oh both sides of the Tasman.
Lawson’s political friends in Vic. Assembly
are trying to induce him to come down from
the back to the front Opposition bench, which
is weak with only McPherson, Argyle, Mc-
Donald, Groves and Wcttenhall on it. Argyle
has some punch, but McPherson has not
nearly as much as he ought to have. Allan,
leader of the Cockies, sits in the Opposition
corner.
M Clerk”: Tunnecliffe, Vic. Minister of
Railways, should have been more specific
when condemning Clapp’s inclination “to
import American manufactures to the ex-
clusion of Australian-made goods” (B.
11/7/’2B). Actually, Clapp bought only
£197,106 worth of goods from Uncle Sam
last year, although his complete shopping
list inside and outside the Commonwealth
totalled three millions and a half. Importa-
tions from all sources amounted to a trifle
over half a million ; John Bull’s share was
£348,114.
Owing chiefly to motor transport the Speck
is getting rid of one of its “permanent and
reproductive” works —the Sorell railway. The
line was closed down for some time pending
a decision ; now the permanent way is to be
dismantled. The rails are to be disposed of
to mining companies and sawmills, and some
of the rolling stock will be sold for conver-
sion into week-end shacks, bathing-sheds and
playhouses. Other small “reproductive”
enterprises may share the same fate before
the world grows much older.
The law flapped its ears again in MO-
bourne the other day when a shopkeeper
was charged with having sold methylated
spirits after hours. There were several
statutes under which he could be tried, but
he preferred to plead guilty to an offence
against Act 21 of Good King Charles the
Second. The penalty under this was a five-
shilling fine —or the stocks.
UNIONISTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
These turbulent sons of ours,
strange stout fellows they are!
What a medley of things that make
A nation and things that mar!
Shrewd in their way, yet fooled
By rogues with the gift of the gab.
Bold —yet the boldest blench
At threatening shouts of “Scab!”
Apt at their work, and keen,
But fond of rows with the boss;
Content if they score a point,
No matter how great the loss.
Most mutinous when the State
Employs them,, devoured with gall,
The while their party declares
The State should be all in all.
And yet, in a worthy cause,
In the need of a stricken mate,
Whenever Australia calls,
Great, of a certainty, great 1
A job for a leader here,
Who’ll know them and understand
(No venomous doctrinaire
From a crazy foreign land) ;
Who’ll take them for what are,
Freemen, not polyglot knaves
Or an abject Tartar breed
Whose sires were the sons of slaves ;
Who’ll lift them above the creed
Of “The union, right or wrong”—
Not mean, but with peril fraught. . . .
But the leader lingers long.
N.S.W.
TUART.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“D.McM.”: There is a Perth citizen who
for a long while had been evidencing deep
concern for the health of his offspring Every
Sunday morning he was out bright and
early doing the park with baby in an old-
fashioned cumbersone perambulator. He met
many friends iii the course of his rambles,
and they all took a great interest in the
infant. Actually there was a false bottom in
baby’s chariot, and it contained solace for
drought-stricken souls who had had a skin-
ful on Saturday night. A too-suspicious
policeman eventually penetrated the dark
secret of the pram. But, at 2s. a nip the
devoted father had already done well enough
to buy a trip east for the family.
$ X H* *
“Bildad”: A noble family which crowded
a good deal into a little time is that of
the Terringtons. Old man Woodhouse was
created Baron Terrington in 1918. His son,
solicitor Woodhouse, succeeded to the title
in 1921. He left for France, which wasn t
anything like far enough away, in 1926.
He was brought back in 1928 to explain a
shortage of £400,000 in the trust, and as he
owned up to 48 separate deficiencies the Court
gave him four years, being £lOO,OOO a year
or one month per deficiency. Seeing that
Jabez Balfour, M.P., of the “Liberator” in-
stitutions, got 14 years, the price of financial
crime has evidently dropped.
* * * *
“Avril”: The next-door youngster, last
of a large family, was informed a few weeks
ago that he was uncle to an infant nephew.
He was delighted, but when last week he
found the honor thrust on lnm again by
another married sister he became silent and
thoughtful. After gazing gloomily out of
the window for some time he turned ana
inquired dismally, “About how long will it
be now, Mum, before I’m a grandfather?
# * * *
“Basra”: Turning over some old Turkish
wireless reports I came across the following
extract from the official broadcast of Janu-
ary 27, 1915: “We captured two flags from
the enemy near Mazeera on the Tigris.
We wondered at the time what flags Abdul
had got hold of until it was reported that
the yellow flags marking the latrines were
being stolen by Arab irregulars during the
AND HAD PLENTY OF COMPANY, TOO.
“My poor boy has lost all his money gambling on the Stock Exchange.”
“Dear, dear. Was he a bull or a bear?”
“Oh, neither—just an ass.”
night. We mined the new flags and the next
marauder who tried to steal one got blown
to glory. After that flags were not men-
tioned in the Turkish communiques.
, * * * *
“Centurion”: Though women are fairly
prone to seek surcease from their troubles
in suicide, few take the firearm route, and
those few never follow the popular but dis-
figuring male example of shooting through
the brain, with the muzzle of the pistol in
the mouth. Before the Australian actress
Jenny Golding shot herself in Paris recently
she bought some anatomical prints, and, hav-
ing located the heart, drew a circle over the
spot and fired the pistol into it, standing
opposite a mirror the while. There would
be little, if any, external bleeding to spoil
the carpet, and beyond a little burning of
the skin about the bullet-hole, no disfigure-
“C.Q.” : An uncertain number of citizens
in Melbourne and suburbs have been looking
for the P.M.G. with a meat-axe since the
new stamp-selling machines were installed.
A placard informed the public that if you
put a penny and a halfpenny or two pennies
or three halfpennies in the slot it would
present you with a penny-halfpenny stamp.
When customers discovered that, after put-
ting two pennies in the thing according to
instructions, they got the stamp without the
halfpenny change, complaints began to roll
in • and the official explanation the
idea was to inform the public that two
pennies will work the machine, and that they
need not go without their stamp because they
do not happen to have a halfpenny in their
pocket,” is said to have killed two Scotch-
men on the spot.
* * * *
“PM.”: The best piece of camouflage I
saw in France was a dummy aerodrome.
When wrecked aeroplanes were sent in to tne
depot all unserviceable wings and fuselages
were sent out to the dummy aerodrome and
pegged to the ground in rows. A German
raider would come along and sight what he
thought to be a squadron lined up ready
for flight, and waste all his bombs on it,
leaving the rest of us safe while he went
home perfectly happy.
=l= * * *
“Stellsby”: While Melbourne's morning
newspapers are discussing whether there is
or is not a shortage of police, let me recall
that Governor Somers has a bodyguard ot
five John Hops—three in. uniform who work
round the clock in shifts, and two m plain-
clothes—always at hand. Moreover, the
plainclothes men are expert motor-cyclists,
which adds to their police value. When the
Baron goes abroad on business ot State a
plainclothes constable sits alongside the
chauffeur, and when his Lordship is m resi-
dence a bobby in mufti is close to his august
person. Why all this protection nobody
seems to know.
❖ *
“Up North” : The swastika as a symbol of
good luck is known to many ages and nations.
Uve seen it tattooed on the chest of a
Malay in Torres Strait; it has been found on
the Bronze-Age weapons of Britons, Euro-
peans, Asians and Americans; __ it is
carved on the kitchens of Pompeii; and
Helen of Troy ordered her slaves to chisel
it in stone on the walls of her favorite city.
The sun-worshipping Indians have left carv-
ings of it in mountain cities, and some of
their descendants still draw it in sand as a
way of ensuring good luck at a parting. To
this day it is the lucky sign of India. And
the swastika is familiar to our own abos.
* * * *
“S.M.”: The blessed arrival of wireless
put Nobile’s venture into a new category
among Arctic expeditions, just as it made
Kut-el-Amara a bright and shining exception
among sieges. Various old explorers may
have reached the Pole, but being unable to
wire from there they were frozen or eaten
by bears on the way back, and died without
credit, taking their knowledge with them.
The top of Mt. Everest may have been
attained, but the climbers couldn’t report
from there, and they may have fallen off on
the way down. In fact, multitudes Jot
people and multitudinous tons of information
must have been sacrificed for want of the
chance to ring up. One of the northern
mysteries is the Scandinavian colony on
the west coast of Greenland which passed
out in the fifteenth century, leaving extensive
ruins and, possibly, some red-headed Eskimo
descendants. If the defenders had reported
their straits by pre-Marconi apparatus
Europe might have put on its breastplate
and its iron hat and rushed to their assist-
ance ; but they left not even the shadow of
a tale behind them.
* * * *
“Count Drolatique”: The reference to
Cheok Hong Cheong (B. 11/7/’2B) reminds
me of one told by ex-Chief Officer Lee, of
the Melbourne Fire Brigade. One night Lee
was called out to quench a blaze in Little
Bourke-street, and sweet words were re-
quired to soothe the fears of several Chinese
who were dashing about frantically in their
bedclothes. One, a lad in expensive pyjamas,
would not be quieted, so Lee seized the young
earthquake firmly by the arm and said:
“Now, lookee here, John. You jumpee about
and you gettee burnt allee same dam’ quick.”
The look of the prisoner almost froze the
water in the pump. Then came the suave
words: “Unhand me, please, Mr. Lee. I am
just as well acquainted with the danger of
the conflagration as I am with the higher
conversational purposes of the English lan-
guage.”
s': * * *
“Oran”: People get religion in divers
ways, but a young man in a Maoriland town
caught it in a unique manner recently.
Imbued with the idea that he must discard
the things of this world, he began with
1928 MODEL.
HE: “Coming out Thursday night?”
SHE: “No, getting married on Thursday. What about Friday?
clothing, and, accompanied by' merely a pair
of boots, a prayer-book and an umbrella, be
set off for church on Sunday morning. His
way lay down a long and fashionable sub-
urban street, and the sensation of his pass-
ing will probably remain the thoroughfare’s
record excitement for many years. As every
house in the street possesses a telephone and
every householder rang the police at the
same moment, the station was overwhelmed
with calls from the locality, and it was
only a matter of minutes before the police
car was hot on the trail of the cause of the
commotion. Half an hour later he was ex-
plaining his theology to the attendants at
the reception house.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: What a mighty thing the
sporting instinct is in Australia! Accord-
ing to the signed statement of a young man
accused of breaking and entering several
houses in Melbourne, when he read in the
press that three silver cups he had purloined
in Toorak were athletic trophies he broke
into the house again and restored them.
Surely we can make better use. of that
sort of spirit than we have done hitherto.
❖ * * *
“Doodles”: Has anyone tasted peach
brandy? Brack, a neighbor of
mine in the Goulburn Valley
(Vic.), had tons of peaches rot-
ting on the ground. So he made
a quantity of this peach brandy
—where he got the recipe I
don’t know —and put it in the
cellar to mature. The other
night I was invited, with a few
others, to go over and sample
the stuff. To me it tasted like
tooth-paste and smelt —well, I
still shudder when I think of
it. We all politely praised it,
and Brack filled ’em up again
and again. After the stuff was
finished I left them arguing. On
the way home I was surprised
to find I couldn’t tell the time
by the Memorial Hall clock,
which later on mysteriously
changed into the moon. Next-
morning I found myself still at
Brack’s place, Brack, with a
highly discolored eye and a split
lip swore between indignant curses that
I returned and gave him a hiding tor making
the damned stuff.
* * *
“Lao-dah”: Remarkable escapes? A Yal-
lourn worker, suspended from the end of a
rope, was engaged in trimming coal at the
bottom of a bunker at the power-house when
several tons of the stuff collapsed on top of
him. A passing mate noticed the rope had
tightened, and, looking down, followed it
until it vanished in the heap. The prompt
release of the coal on to the firing-floor left
the buried one once more swinging in mid-
air. If the Yallourn product were like the
Newcastle variety he would probably have
been dead, but as it is a cross between treacle
rnd sawdust he was not much the worse.
-f. * * *
“Two Seas”: I don’t know who selects
them but the country tracks are getting
stiff with all sorts of impossible migrants.
I met a queer couple the other day. They
looked like Maltese bum-boat men Each
carried a bulging sugar-bag on his shoulder.
No blankets, no billies. One stopped me,
and made some inquiry, but I’m no linguist,
and our conversation came to an abrupt end.
Then the spokesman produced a little book
in which some more learned compatriot had
written short sentences with translations in
English. He ran his finger down one page,
and selected some heiroglyphics with "Can
you give me employment?” opposite them.
I scanned the columns, and at last_ dis-
covered “What can you do?” He grinned
hopefully, and pointed with his dirty finger-
nail to “I can row a boat.” I couldn’t find
anything in his book that would convey to
him that such an accomplishment was of
doubtful value in my neighborhood, so I
retorted “Cut bono ?” and his grin faded, but
it revived when I showed him a couple of
shillings He pointed to “How far to the
next town?” And I left them making towards
it. There is a pub there.
* * * *
“Jack Hall”: During the days when the
Light Horse trailed Jacko across the desert
my cobber Bill, who was the possessor, con-
trary to regulations, of a camera, decided
to do his own developing. He had everything
but a red lamp, and there aren’t any red lamps
in the desert. On being consulted, I made
several inane suggestions that were received
with silent contempt, and then I had a brain
wave. “What about this?” I asked, winding
an old Bulletin cover round our makeshift
lamp. The glow through the sheet gave the
desired effect, and later on Bill’s grunts of
approval from beneath an old blanket
propped up on sticks gave assurance that
all was well.
$ Sjc S|C *
“Gwy”: About the worst batch of postal
address puzzles arose out of a chain-letter
scheme launched by a Sydney girl 20 years
ago to assist a suburban hospital. The open-
ing letters were written to folk in England.
Participants were asked each to forward 10
used British stamps to an address in Hurst-
ville and to write to three others asking each
of them to do the same. The result was an
avalanche of replies, which at last assumed
such dimensions that the missives were turned
over unopened to stamp dealers, who sold
them, still unopened, in big batches. 1
bought one lot, and was astonished to note
what had happened to the address “Hurst-
ville” after it had been copied by one bad
writer from the scrawl of a few score of
others. Here are a few of the permutations:
Mayle Hill, Lagden Hale, Hoyden Hall,
Haydon Hill, Hayton Hill, Lyden Hill,
Tyden Hill, Fourden Mills, Hexton Mills,
Jaydar Mills, Holbigear Mills and Holy Ear
Mill. The most remarkable thing about it
is that they all got to their destination.
:Jc ❖ *
“Nikko” : All birds and animals possess the
sixth sense to some extent. Before the
eruption of Mt. Pelee destroyed St. Pierre
the inhabitants of the countryside were
puzzled by the steady migration of birds and
beasts towards the coast. Hearne, the Ameri-
can writer, going home after his work on
a S’Francisco paper two hours before the
great earthquake, found the keeper of the
biggest stables in the city trying to calm
his horses. Some years ago when the Mary
Hasbrouck arrived at Auckland (M.L.) the
rats left the ship in a steady procession, and
extensive repairs had to be sanctioned before
she could get a crew to take her back to
New York. Some humans have something
akin to the sixth sense. There is still a man
in Sydney who walked off the Waratah at
the last moment, minus his luggage, because
he had a sudden unaccountable conviction
that the vessel was leaving her last port.
* * * *
“Ula” : Touching on tattooed men, I once
met an American sailor in a boarding-house
in Port Melbourne who had the music and
words of a song called “You Made Me Go
tattooed on his back. One Sunday evening
we men lodgers induced him to strip to
the waist and pose with his back to the
landlady’s piano, while one of us played over
the song. In a few minutes we were all
singing. Then the landlady came in, saw
all that bare flesh and broke up the party.
BLISS?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have small hope of Heav’n to come—
The fast-abiding faith of some
Has passed me by;
I put no trust in joy that waits
Beyond the dim and guesscd-at gates
That close the sky.
And yet—if there should he for us
An after-earth, where all the fuss
And fret of life
Are lost in one long, sweet release,
’Twill be, this land of lasting peace,
Hell for the wife!
QUEENSLAND.
MACESS.


Fur and Feather”: Though devastating
changes are coming over English ideals, the
House of Lords remains a bulwark against
the oncoming flood of modern heresies. Re-
cently the Commons actually passed a bill
empowering local authorities to destroy rab-
bits, which are rapidly becoming a menace
to farmers and gardeners. Of late years the
value of Bunny’s pelt, which is in great de-
mand for making rare and expensive foreign
furs, has caused him to be much more closely
protected than he was a few years ago, and
many warrens have been laid down by land-
owners to breed him. The old method of
keeping him down by rough shooting and
poaching has proved useless under new con-
ditions ; hence the bill from the Commons.
The peers were convulsed at the sacrilegious
idea. One pillar of the Constitution voiced
the general opinion of his fellows when he
asked in trembling accents what was to be-
come of the foxes if the rabbits, their chief
food, were killed off, and if the foxes went,
what would become of huntin’ —what?
* * * *
“Selma”: Quite a number of people Avith
an undeveloped sense of liumnr make an
effort to be funny per post or telephone,
but_ they are not all as indiscreet as the
juniors of a big M.L. shipping firm who
vrere addicted to these tactics. In the
pauses between their not too strenuous
office duties they amused themselves by sending
postcards bearing comic comment to various
city firms. When their meagre stock of
humor ran short they resorted to scandal,
raking up spicy items from the pasts of
estimable citizens and broadcasting their find-
ings. Doubtless confederates reported pro-
gress at the other end, and the game became
last and furious. But their economy un-
masked the conspirators. Finding the strain
of buying stamps too heavy they resorted
to use of the office stamp-meter. Ten
minutes after receiving a postcard asking
him to reply “Yes” or “No” to the query
‘‘Does your Avife knoAv you take the typist
to dinner?” the recipient, a portly merchant,
'vas closeted with the chief postmaster. avlio
read the postcards and the meter, number
and at once knepv the name of the firm
leasing the offending machine. A terrific up-
heaval in the shipping office, followed the
procession of citizens who made calls of
protest, and the few clerks who were letft
when the inquiry Avas over still shudder at
the sight of a postcard.
THE FLY IN THE OINTMENT.
“So you found companionate marriage wasn’t all it’s cracked up to be?”
“No! Frightful frost! Had to marry the woman to get out of it!”
“M.C.S.” It is not only Chows who make
good money out of herbalism (B. 4/7/’2B).
I know a Digger who was a motor-lorry
driver_ before lie enlisted, and served as a
cook in a transport camp behind the lines
m France. In his spare time he went in
for reading all sorts of quack pamphlets.
Eventually he became interested in herb-
alism, and in Blighty, after the Armistice,
he put in three months’ leave with a London
herbalist. As soon as he landed back, he
advertised himself as an “iridologist and herb-
alist,” and professed to be able to diagnose
any human complaint by studying the iris
of the eye under a magnifying glass. Last
time I met him he told me he was already
in a position to retire. Some time ago I
mentioned his name to a country doctor.
“I can tell you something interesting about
that bird,” he said. “A lady lodge patient
of mine came to me with indigestion. I told
her it was nothing serious, and prescribed
bicarbonate of soda after meals and a dose
of Epsom salts every day.” But that didn’t
satisfy her, and next time she was in Mel-
bourne she visited your friend, who, after
examination of her eyes, informed her that
they indicated a very serious state of affairs,
which required for its cure his special
powders at 15s. per one-ounce box. I got her
to give me a sample of his powder, which
she says is doing her a wonderful lot of
good.” “And is the powder any good?” I
asked him. “Excellent,” was the reply. “It
is made of equal parts of Epsom salts and
bicarbonate of soda.”
* * * *
“Surcingle” : “Morita’s” par. (B. 27/6/’2B)
recalls the eagerness of French butchers to
buy souvenired army horses. In an estami-
net one day we got chatting to a Froggie
butcher, who soon began to investigate the
possibilities of obtaining a horse or two from
our transport section. “There will be no
risk,” he told us. “An hour after
you bring him to me he will be
hanging up in the shop and the hide
burnt.” He offered us 200 francs a
head, but we didn’t bite. There
were a couple of Diggers in our
mob who traded a few prads, but the
horses they sold never crossed a
butcher’s counter. Their stunt was
to borrow a horse from the' lines.
Immediately one handed it over to
the butcher and got the cash the
other would turn up, claim the
horse on behalf of the; unit, and
threaten the Froggie with prosecu-
tion. In two nights they sold
three horses, but the appearance of
two irate Frenchmen in the lines a
couple of days later caused the
swindlers to cease operations.
* * *
. “Caxton’s Ghost”: A young mar-
ried couple in the queen city of
Maori land are looking for a 13-
roomed house, numbered 18. They
were married on June 18, after
being engaged 13 months. The wed-
ding taxi was number 13, and 13
telegrams were read at the break-
fast. Before departing on the
honeymoon the couple weighed
themselves. The groom was 9st.
41b. and the bride Bst. 51b. And
on the return journey they were
given seat 13 in the trail). This
string of omens lias rendered them indifferent
to superstitions, and they don’t care now if
they do spill the salt.
* * # Hi
“Nakhoda” : At least one married pair in
Melbourne read with more than ordinary
interest the opinion of a Geneva surgeon,
recently cabled, that the partners to a blood-
transfusion operation become actually if not
legally blood relations. After a brief court-
ship the two married, blissfully unaware that
they had ever seen each other before. Then
one day, in a reminiscent mood, wifie hap-
pened to mention that her life had been
saved as a child by the noble action of a
boy in the same public hospital who had
allowed his tide of life to be tapped on her
behalf. This moved hubby to remember that
he had offered to perform a similar meri-
torious service in his youth. Comparisons
of time and place revealed that the two
occasions were the same. Tin; discovery
cemented still stronger the bonds of affec-
tion between _ the couple until they read
the dictum of the disconcerting European
sawbones aforementioned. Then followed a
hurried search of the prayer-book to see
what the consequences of consanguineous
union w T ore. The verdict was sufficiently
startling to cause them to consult an eminent
Melbourne pathologist. They are happy
again now. He informed them that legally,
theologically and morphologically their rela-
tions are well outside the Table of Affinities.
* * # *
“Gouger” : A crippled mate revives memory
of a snappy little British destroyer that
loved to let Hell loose on dark nights oppo-
site Chatham’s Post. At any old time that
destroyer would sneak close inshore, hurl her
eggs and then dash off. The Turks in the
trenches she favored must have hated her.
But a day came when she hit us, too. The
regiment hopped the bags and attacked the
Turkish trenches in broad daylight, with the
sole object of stopping their reinforcements
from attacking the troops charging Achi
Baba. While we lay out in the open under
hellish rifle-fire, that blasted destroyer raced
inshore and enfiladed us with shells. The
Turks got their own back that day.
* * H- *
“Let Go”: “Gouger’s” par. (B. 27/6/’2B)
recalling the primitive ambulance methods of
Palestine reminds me of one trip I had. A
Maorilander shot through both cheeks was my
vis-d-vis on a lurching camel which formed
part of a night convoy after the Bir-el-Abd
scrap. My wound was slight, and as I
smoked a fag the man from Fernland re-
marked : “Hell, I’d like a smoke, but I don’t
know how it’d go with the air rushing in the
holes in my cheeks.” I suggested holding
both hands over the bullet holes, more in
the way of a joke than anything else, for
ALL STILL IN WORKING ORDER.
“Well, one thing, the bird doesn't pick up
his bad habits from me.”
“No, darling. I haven’t noticed that you’ve
dropped any.”
I did not think the pain of his wound would
allow him to have a draw. To my surprise
he followed my directions, aud without a
word made a fag and motioned me to set
it alight. A bit like Brunton Stephens’s
headless trooper, who had to have his torso
plugged in two places before he could enjov
a whiff.
**• * *
“Mond”: There is a very striking A.I.F.
memorial on Salisbury Plains. On a steep
Hill overlooking the railway line is an Aus-
tralian badge about 30ft. high by about 50ft.
across, a wonderful replica of the well-known
“rising sun.” Engineers laid out the design,
and fatigue parties from the camps did the
rest. After the badge was outlined the turf
was cut right out, leaving the bare white
chalk showing up against a grassy back-
ground. Designs cut in chalk in parts of the
south of England centuries ago still show
up clearly, so the memorial can be regarded
as a permanent one.
* * * *
“P.M.”Our new hand, who worked in
a Lancashire mill before he came here, in-
formed me that his father never wore boots
until he was 46, and wouldn’t have done
so then only grandpa died, and mother in-
sisted on dad wearing them to the funeral.
Dad protested bitterly, but was sent off in
his clogs to the nearest bootshop, a mile
away. When he had gone nearly two hours
his wife began to get restless, and thought he
must have been run over. At length he
hobbled in, complaining witheringly that he
couldn’t wear boots. In fact, he could hardly
walk in them. Mum bent down and had a
look at them. “Naw wonder, thee darm
fool!” she exclaimed. “Thee’s walked all
that way and thee’s naw cut the string
atwixt ’em.”
* * * *
From an Australian in .China:—
they have a great Labor union here. All workers
must belong and all must pay to the few shrewdies
who run it. Benefits cqnsist in taking part at
personal risk in the periodical riots and walking
in the processions which are held whenever the
weather is good. As my “boy” put it, “Please,
master, to-day I must go walkee.” Membership of
the union is not compulsory ; but if you don’t join,
grandma gets burned to death, also the old home
is wiped out. Otherwise there are no penalties.
* * * *
“Grafton”; In the pioneering days Graf-
ton (N.S.W.) sported a. Scotch colony as
well as a Little Italy. Highlanders were
brought by Dr. Lang in the fifties and
settled along the lower river, clinging to the
good lands with their national tenacity.
Almost every man made good. Many of
them neVer learned to speak English, and
old hands still recollect the time when
Gaelic was spoken around Shoal Bay
island. The huge area of river banks now
is treeless, but once maple and fig and cedrtr
grew densely to the water’s edge. A Mr.
Small, of Sydney, fitted out the schooner
Elizabeth, and she anchored by Elizabeth
Island and put in the first axe-cuts of what
soon developed into a huge timber trade.
* * * *
“Coot” : Vic.’s Parliament may not, like the
Speck’s (B. 11/7/’2B), have a picture gallery
of its members, but Melbourne City Council
possessed at one time more-than-life-size
paintings of its Mayors, from brewer Con-
nell down. And a great sigh of relief went
up among the artistic-minded when the Town
Hall caught fire two years ago and all the
pictures were burnt.
* * * *
“P. J.C.” : Touching mixed drinks, “T.R.H.”
(B. 13/0/’2B) said that “dog’s nose” con-
sisted of beer and gin. No. it’s stout (or
porter) and gin. “T.H.R.’s” mixture is
“horse’s neck.” In pre-war days either of
these lotions could be purchased in London
for 4d. the ordinary-sized glass; they were
specially favored by cabbies, ’bus-drivers and
charladies. In poorer districts, now that the
cost of spirits is prohibitive, a popular tipple
is a concoction of cheap red wine and
methylated spirits. A U.S.A. favorite is the
liquor from Jamaica ginger boiled in w T ater
with sugar and allowed to ferment. Cooks
in the lumber camps have found that lemon
or other flavoring extracts, when mixed with
hot water, produce the desired effect.
“Koolonga”: Gallant Colonel Damurize
would have exchanged his bath-cliair for a
coffin had he seen a recent occurrence on a
Melbourne golf course. Very early on a
cold morning two players were awaiting
their turn at the first tee, and one was com-
plaining bitterly of the cold. Said his com-
panion, “I’ve a flask in my pocket. What
about some?” The offer was gratefully
accepted. But the donor was still in a criti-
cal condition 12 hours later. Instead of
putting the Spirit of Scotia to its proper
use, the lucky recipient had unlaced liis shoes
and poured a generous spot into each.
* * * *
“Shep”: Listening to the recent prohibi-
tion debate in Sydney reminded me of a simi-
lar affair that happened on a transport com-
ing home from the war. A debate was arranged
by the well-meaning padre, and was listened
to by everyone who could get close enough
to the platform. Due to the eloquence of ouc
of the prohibition team, they won the verdict,
and the delighted padre in a closing speech
particularly commended the outstanding
orator. A few days later at Capetown, our
only port of call, a disgusted chaplain
watched his water advocate being carried
up the gangway by the shore guard, full to
the eyebrows, and giving out a flow of
naughty language which could not be ex-
celled for variety and pungency. Later we
found out that his paybook contained more
red entries through booze than any other
on board.
* * * :Jt
“P.H.”: Truthful people still exist. A
woman was charged at Collingwood (Vic.)
with having an unregistered pistol. Her
defence was that she had had it given her
as a birthday present by her son. “But
you wouldn’t shoot a man, would you?” she
was asked. Her answer was to the point:
“I’d rather hit him over the head with a
bottle.”
* * * *
“Let Go”: Mention of a drunk being fined
£1 or seven days for sleeping on a suburban
railway line in Adelaide reminds me of
Sprown, whom I pulled out of harm’s way
near Ingham (N.Q.). I received incoherent
abuse instead of thanks for saving him from
a rapidly-approaching cane-train, and later
on he explained matters. “Why didn’t you
leave me where I was?” he asked. “I’m sick
of life, an’ the mongrel driving the train
would have been had up for manslaughter.”
Sprown suspected the driver of being too
fond of his. Sprown’s, wife; so he was
sort of killing two birds with one stone
wffien I butted in.
* * * *
J.A.”: Bulletin pars concerning Ben
Boyd do not mention that lie claimed to be
a descendant of the Earl of Kilmarnock.
He came to N. S. Wales ‘in 1840 as mam
ager of the Royal Banking Co. of Sydney.
As his Boydtown speculation at Twofold
Bay was proving disastrous, and as share-
holders in the Royal Bank were growing
more and more clamorous for dividends,
Boyd agreed to retire conditionally on his
being given three whaling ships the yacht
Wanderer and two sections of pastoral
country near Eden. And that’s how Ben
got his start in the whaling business
* * *
“Ven”: Dad had been dead 10 years and
Mum, having money amply sufficient fir
her needs, thought a thorough renovation
of the grave and surroundings would be a
fitting anniversary tribute. She placed the
job in the hands of a contractor who, appa-
rently, performed the work excellently' When
Mum received the bill it read as follows:
“To repairs to ironwork, £2 10s.; replace-
ment of stone, £10; general overhaul etc..
£1; turning the old sod over, 10s.”’ She
studied it for a while and then said : “Well,
I certainly told him to make a job of it but
1 didn t bargain for him disturbing Henry!”
WINTER MORNING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The warmth there is in iced champagne
Dimples the breeze that, in delight,
Shakes jewels of dew, a sparkling rain,
From every bough, and in the height
Wafts soft rose-petals, fleecy white,
In the blue sky’s inverted cup;
And both the sun and I are up.
The earth in dainty perfumes breathes;
Above the smell of dampened loam
Which pleasantly its incense wreathes
W ith that of flow’rets wondersome,
The honey-sweets of freezias come.
I feel a blessed millionaire,
And yet with not a scent to spare.
The Winter’s winds may sometimes blow
Itoughly. Like Life, its ways are rude;
Like malice its rough shafts may go
To freeze the soul; yet Life is good,
And so is Winter, in its mood.
For brave days built for epstasy
Winter and Life have thanks from me.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


'■t-i~s-
iW-Si'.iS
n-
r&s;
r-r->:s*.&:
Sgi
r*v.
Sffl
MMb
mmm
>
ftdl
v>;'-c
&’£vss
S§£
1
ys
8II«i
iiiiii
ilisis
SB*
•>'.-•■’
r
Iritis
&
Jhxslzoli
Cvealion
w
i£>£3fe
>.-v
Ispfr:
I
&
FUUy H'hio*
Iff!
/ /v&//
m °mows f ,,
a tie 7ri d °t)r set pm
yet J t • mes a re avaij.
yet ec °noxni Cal H
■tt°*ery at
Wu


Showing 5-h.p. Single Cylinder “Invincible”
Four-Cycle, Heavy Duty Marine Motor, £o(i
complete.
INVINCIBLE MARINE MOTORS,
are stocked in 10 popular models:
2ih.p. to 60h.p.— £3O to £3BO completely
equipped. An Engine for every type of Boat.
Thousands are now in use. Write for Catalogue.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS, LTD.,
53 North George Street, Sydney.
PROTECT WHAT YOU HAVE EARNED!
The wise man, who has the welfare of his wife and children at heart and
who wishes to protect what he has acquired during a lifetime of work
appoints as his Trustee or Executor the
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
TRUSTEES - - EXECUTORS - - ATTORNEYS - - AGENTS
This Company has had over 40 years’ experience in the administration of all
classes of Estates, and during that time no loss has been suffered by any
client.
And here is the reason: Unlike an individual, the Company never dies
constant and expert attention is given to your affairs until the term of trustee-
ship expires. Further, the whole of the Company’s Capital and Assets over
one million pounds, is available to protect your interests.
There is no time like the present. Arrange an
interview now or write for our interesting Booklet,
sent post free o-n request. It explains the many
advantages you derive by appointing this Company
to administer your Estate.
J. W. Barnes, Manager. E. V. T. Whittle, Asst. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
HOTEL SYDNEY
Management: Edward T. Cheesemau.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel.
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
Throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens
80ft. above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from ..
Bed and Breakfast from
19/6
13/-
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines).
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Ages of some Australian artists:—
Julian Ashton 77, Will Ashton 47, Bryant 45,
Bunny 64, Burgess 49, Coates 59, Will Dyson 48,
Herbert 36, Heysen 51, Lambert 55, Leason 39, Leist
50, Lionel Lindsay 54, Norman Lindsay 49, Lister
69, Syd Long 50, Power 50, Sydney Smith 41, Souter
66, Scorfield 40 and Streeton 61.
Tlie original Senators from Westralia
have lasted better than those from other
Parts. Whereas A. J. Gould (N.S.W.), Bob
Best (Vic.) and Josiah Symon (S.A.) are
the only survivors among the 18 from their
three States, the Westralians presented an
unbroken front to the Enemy until Norman
Ewing died the other day. They were much
younger on the whole than the other 1001
contingents: Ewing, Pearce, Harney (now
in the House of Commons) and Staniforth
Smith were all under 33, while Matheson
and De Largie were in the early forties.
Sons of the manse were Tom and Nor-
man Ewing, and both took to public life.
Tom, born at Pitt Town (N.S.W.), was
a Ma State Assemblyman for 16 years
and M.H.R. for another nine; he was twice
a Minister under Deakin. Norman, a native
of Wollongong, went to Westralia, where,
after a rapid success at the Bar, he became
M.L.A. at 27 and Senator at 30. Retiring
from the Senate after two years, he settled
in Tasmania, to combine law and polities
successfully again. M.11.A. for Franklin
JAMES FAIRFAX, one of the two chief
proprietors and a director of the S.M.
Herald, who died very suddenly last
Wednesday While approaching the
eighteenth hole at Rose Bay.
for six years, he was Leader of the Opposition
in 1914, and next year he was a Supreme
Court Judge. His career closed last week
in his 58th year; Tom, the elder by 13
years, died in 1920.
Adelaide got a shock when it discovered
that the Rev. Ronald Maxwell, the new
Presbyterian parson at Colonel Light Gar-
dens, was the Rev. Ronald Griggs, recently
acquitted of wife murder in Melbourne, who
during, his trial owned up to matrimonial
backslidings. The shocked ciders quietly
sacked him, and hoped that no more would be
heard of the matter; but churchgoers who
had been impressed by his sermons demanded
to know what had become of him, and so the
affair was made public. The poor beggar has
gone on to W.A., and there Tiie Bulletin
hopes a tolerant community will give him a
chance.
Out of 16 candidates, many of them well-
known already, the Labor party in S.A. has se-
lected three for the next Federal Senate elec-
tion : A. A. Hoare, in the Senate already :
M. R. O’Halloran, who has seen service in
S.A. Assembly; and J. J. Daly, the partner
in Denny’s law firm who also backed Spear-
felt. Daly, Lundio and George were the
candidates last time, but had no luck.
Dr. Bruce Mayes, who has been awarded
the Walter and Eliza Hall Medical Resoauch
Fellowship for 1929, is a Queenslander with
a distinguished .
career at Sydney
Uni., where, among
other scholarships,
he won the Caird
and John Harris,
graduating in 1927
with first-class
honors, and the
Windeyer prize for
obstetrics. He will
spend two years in
Europe and
America, returning
to complete the
third at Sydney
Uni. Hailing from
Toowoomba, he is
a brother- of A. D.
.Mayes, the well-
known Queensland
and N.S.W. crick-
eter, and is at pre-
sent on the staff of
the Prince Alfred,
Sydney.
“DIGGER”
JOHNSON, lately
of St. Cuthbert’s,
Prospect (S.A.),
who was installed
Dean of New-
castle (N.S.W.),
in succession to
Dean (now
Bishop) Crotty.
Sydney is harboring a visitor who is
using the name of liustam Bey, but is really
Brince Mohamet! Ali, nephew of King Fuad
of Egypt, and son and brother of former
Khedives. His father was Tewfik, who gave
Britain some trouble at various times during
his reign. Moliamed Ali’si elder brother,
who succeeded, was deposed by the British
in 1014 and his uncle Fuad exalted.
Old Jack West is to be challenged in his
East Sydney fortress at next election by
Julian Simpson, scion of a legal family, who
has been political secretary to Bavin; before
that, between his service in the war, in
which he won the M.C., and his return to
Australia, lie was an administrative officer in
the Cameroons. West tried twice to win East
Sydney from George Reid. He was unsuc-
cessful ; but his vote showed such an upward
tendency that the Yes-No politician took the
High Commissionership rather than risk the
next vote. George Simpson was Attorney-
General in the State Government of Reid
and his good henchman ; now his grandson,
at a time when labors grip on the seat
seems slackening, i s in the field to fight the
usurper.
When Francis Birtles arrived in Sydney
after having driven a Bean (British-made)
car from London (sea skips excepted) he
found about 12 members of the R.A.C.
assembled to give him a cheer. He deserved
a better reception. Apart from his Aus-
tralian performances lie had just accom-
plished what most Anglo-Indians said was
impossible—he and his companion Stollery
drove their car from Calcutta to Rangoon over
a jungle-tangled route. Birtles bought and
paid for the car, and but for the enterprise
of the Dunlop and Shell Oil cos. he would
have had to pay for the rubber and petrol
he used up, too.
The first white child born in the Lachlan
district (N.S.W.) was named Lachlan Mac-
quarie ; his surname was Thompson, and he
died last week. Had he lived until Novem-
ber 5 he would have been 107. With the
exception of two, all of his 17 children are
still alive.
J. W. Lyon, now spending the unevent-
ful years of his eighth decade in Sandgate
(Q.), can fairly claim to have had an
oxciting past to make up for his present
calm. He had seen service on the Red
River in Canada before he crossed to S’Africa
in the early 1870’s, and eight years later
was one of the two mounted guides who
escaped from Isandwhlana when the Zulu
impis cut to pieces the South Wales Border-
ers. He landed out of that frying-pan into
the fire of Rorke’s Drift a few hours later,
and, though wounded, lived to fight again.
Years of prospecting and handy-man jobs
to expeditions in places as far apart as
Montana and Abyssinia brought him to the
North-Queensland copper fields, where his
wanderings ended.
Brig.-General “Bob” Smith, just dead, saw
service with the A.I.F. on several battle-
fronts. As Brig.-General he commanded the
Fifth Brigade of the Second Division, and
was mentioned in Haig despatches. Several
decorations, including the Croix do Guerre,
came his way. In business a woollens man,
lie was instrumental in establishing the re-
turned soldiers’ woollen mills, and was still
only 46 when the last post was sounded.
A new type of Metliovangelist is the
Rev. N. Dunn. He is an M.A. and IX.B.
of Cambridge and a lawyer of the Inner
Temple. The copious sobbing into a hand-
kerchief with which Gipsy Smith invari-
ably ended his appeals is no part of Brother
Dunn’s stock-in-trade. His forensic eloquence
is as devoid of emotion as a Judge’s address
to a jury. It should be a refreshing change.
Vic. Railway-Boss Clapp told Melbourne
Uni. Commerce Society the other night that
he was taught how to work by a pious
chap who had a shaven upper lip and a
lot of whiskers. He added that he had
“always been thankful to that bird.” The
“bird” was “Dundreary” Sprigg, secretary
of the old Melb. Tram and ’Bus Co. Sprigg
and Zox were the delight of the cartoonists
of the later days of last century.
Dead in South Aus., T. B. Richardson,
an English-born sailor but a good Aus-
tralian since 1872. He got into the lime-
light in October, 1887, when in command of
the Howard Smith boat Cheviot, which
broke its propeller outside Melbourne Heads
and drifted on to the back beach at Sorrento.
The wreck broke in halves, and 32 people
went down with the fore-part; but Richard-
son saved 17 on the other part, was the
last to leave, and received a public £5OO
testimonial—presented by Governor Loch.
He ended with 25 years as a Port Adelaide
pilot.
Passed away in Sydney last week, Fred
Leston, who during a life of 75 years
mingled music with business, and made a
success of both. Forty years ago and more
Fred and his brother Harry, the latter an
elocutionist, shone like twin stars on the
concert platform, and drew the youth of
Sydney to them from the old wharves of
Woolloomooloo to the sandhills back of Surry
Hills. A friend of artists, musicians and
poets—of Victor Daley and Delaney and
Frank Mahony—Fred Leston endeared him-
self to all Bohemians.
The old I.W.W. sensations are recalled by
the death of Justice Ewing in Tasmania.
Twelve leaders of the I.W.W. were sent to
gaol for unlawful conspiracy, following a
series of fires which were connected with
terrorist propaganda; and at the end of a
long continued agitation for their release,
the Storey Government appointed a Commis-
sion to review their sentences. Ewing was
brought from Tasmania as Commissioner, and
on his report the men were freed. Donald
Grant, now a Labor man and recently an
aspirant for selection as a Senate candidate,
is the only one of the dozen who remains in
political affairs in N. S. Wales.
Death has rohbed Hobart of Captain John
Shimmins, a hardy old seafarer who thought
it time to retire only a couple of years ago,
when he had been sailoring for 60 years.
Even then he could not keep away from the
waterfront. He had shipped to most of the
countries of the world —had been wrecked off
Chile and nearly executed as a suspected
Peruvian spy. After he settled in Tasmania
he. was so much in demand as a relieving
skipper that he held a Tasmanian record
for the ships he had brought in and out of
Hobart.
Dead at 80, John Thomas Lee, of Strath-
field, Sydney, eldest son of the late Thomas
Lee, of Woodlands, Bathurst, whose father
was the first man to take sheep over the
Blue Mountains.
J.. E. Frazer, just retired from the adminis-
trative side, of the Vic. Education Depart-
ment, occupied the same room for more than
40 years. Before coming to Melbourne he
was a teacher at Creswick Grammar School,
where two of his pupils were Mcßae, now
Chief Inspector of Vic. State schools, and
Leach, who is Assistant Chief Inspector.
Digger Ted Morley. who succeeds Brown-
bill as chairman of the committee of public
accounts in the Vic. Assembly, is the man
mainly responsible for the construction of
the Ocean-road towards Warrnambool—a
curiosity in Australia because of the sen-
sible toll-gate on it. He brought forward
unsuccessfully the Tote Bill nearly six years
ago, and helped Hogan to pilot through the
Assembly a similar measure last year; but
the moribund Council bumped it out. A
likeable chap with heaps of push, Morley
stands a good chance of inclusion in the
next Nationalist or Coalition Ministry.
Passed on at Nelson (M.L.), Helen Louise
Stuart, niece of explorer John McDouall
Stuart. She used to live in Australia until
23 years ago, when she went across to a
sister in Nelson.
JAMES McDOUGALL, president of the
Vic. Chamber of Manufactures and of
the Associated Chambers, who issued
the invitation to the Labor unions from
which it is probable an Industrial Peace
Conference will happily result.
“Tito”: Frank Anstey’s best epigram was
thrown off in the House of lieps. after
Hughes’s classic encounter at Warwick
(Q.) : “As the oak comes from the acorn,
so out of a rotten egg they brought the
Commonwealth police.”
Now it is Ararat (Vic.) that claims a
centenarian —Eliza Flattely, who was said
to be 105 when she died the other day. She
had been 76 years in Australia and 58 at
Ararat, where she was regarded as a fairy
godgrandmother.
The Last Post sounded at Opotiki for
Capt. Tom Withers, an 82-year-old veteran
of the Maori wars who, in the ’sixties, was
one of the superb bushmen on the exciting
.i°b of following the trails of the rebel leaders,
Te Kooti and Titikowaru. Afterwards he
had charge of a camp of the Armed Con-
stabulary holding the line from Taupo to
Napier.
Though he hits up a few speeches that
challenge attention in Parliament and on
the platform, Kent Hughes, the Rhodes
Scholar of the Vic. Assembly, is not making
the progress his friends hoped. He is sec.
of the National Party, but apparently dis-
likes devilling for the older hands, and he is
not a good enough mixer with political
opponents. Party usefulness would make
him surer of a portfolio when the swing of
the pendulum brings non-Kabor back to
office, and popularity would ensure him
more tolerance when his time comes to
handle bills.
George Holt arrived on the old Fortitude
in 1849, being then 19 years of age. Sixty
passengers on the ship died either dur-
ing or as a result of the voyage, and over
100 others were seriously ill. Holt escaped,
and ran some of the first cargo boats between
Brisbane _ and Ipswich, before selecting a
farm, which he occupied for 70 years. He
fathered 11 children, most of whom are alive
to-day, and up till a year or two ago lie
was a familiar figure on horseback about
the district. But when he was 100 the
climate got him.
TWO OF A KIND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I knew that lie was bluffing, I knew the
blanker’s way,
And I just stood and waited and when he’d
had his say
I says to him, “Old feller, if that’s the way
you feel
You go your blanky hardest and I’ll be on
your wheel.
“You may be pretty slippy, but still I’m not
too slow;
I won’t be far behind you however hard
you go;
You haven’t picked a melon —I know my
way about.”
And cripes! but it was funny to see him
crawfish out!
I knew that he was bluffing when he started
going crook;
It wasn’t any trouble to read him like a
book.
I had the blanker’s measure, I knew more
than he knew —
For he never tumbled to it that I was
bluffing, too.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.
ELLEN TERRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“When I have gone, think of me as withdrawn
into dimness, but yours still, as- you are mine.”
—Her last message.
Immortal actress, whilst the Arts exist
To put Life’s semblance on the written
thought,
In old traditions woven shall persist
The fame, with others passing, that you
wrought.
Withdrawn to dimness? Nay, while Art still
flowers
The thought of Ellen Terry still is ours!
N.S.W.
HAMER.


A CUSTARD-PIE FOR BEETHOVEN.
“Although there are over 105 cinema theatres in Melbourne and suburbs, the civic authorities have seen fit to postpone all symphony and other conceits and let
A 6 the Town Hall for American pictures.”


33
N
,n' s ;\ n \
H^HtS
-=*-
s \» %'\ ,
f4\o^Wv\
N
3S‘
S
'Vx
xxx.
SJ
V«S X'
VC
\\s\ - X
'V
>si
XCX'
<N.
Uj
v*xs
sx^
tfsWfes
§4
X~'
?»%5
%
w
W)
SIX
o
S*
ss
\\
O
v^
§«
=T
hi
K?S
<7=SJ
a
<
K
o
==i
X
&
-z- ' - ~ -
*
XX
Ss
g=_- -=■=!■ -~=?^
mk
:«
o
-=- =- - ~ -
s>
o
v %\l//.
KS$
CC
(OOTTAGE or mansion...boudoir or den
...an Atwater Kent One Dial Receiving
set is instantly at home whatever the sur-
roundings. Unobtrusively beautiful in de-
sign, it blends admirably with any decorative
scheme No larger than a set of books, it
can be placed on side-table, window sill,
mantelpiece or wherever fancy dictates. Its
volume is amazing, and so perfectly control-
led that its music can ring through the house
or else be toned down to the merest whisper
of pure, undiluted melody.
Apart from these desirable features.. .Atwater Kent One
Dial Receivers are simplicity itself to operate- A twist
of the fingers is sufficient to tune in station after station
with split-second rapidity. The one plainly marked dial
is as easy to read as your watch.
Take the word of close on 2,000,000 owners for Atwater
Kent excellence... and call on your nearest dealer today.
He will demonstrate with pleasure.
// THE SETS ILLUSTRATED t
In the larger illustration is shown Set No. 35... a One Dial
Atwater Kent Receiver with six valves. Size over all
171 x74x 51 ins. Model E Radio Speaker.
The smaller picture shows Model No. 33 ... another At-
water Kent One Dial Receiver with six valves. Unusual
selectivity obtained through aerial adjustment device.
Size over all, 214x6ix64 ins. Model H Radio Speaker.
ATWATER KENT PRICES *
Six and Seven Valve One Dial Atwater Kent Receivers,
£25:10:0 to £37:10:0 without valves or equipment. Radio
Speakers, £3:15:0, £4:10:0 and £8:15:0 (New Model E.)
Complete outfits from £43:10:0 also Console and Writing
Desk models.
One dial--
RABIO
ASK YOUR NEAREST A.K. DEALER TO SHOW
YOU NEW MODELS BY ATWATER KENT
Advertisement Inserted by Atwater Kent Manufacturing Company of
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, U.S.A. on behalf of Australian A.K. Dealers
Atwater Kent Wholesale Distributors
for Australia :
A. Q. HEALING Ltd.
MELBOURNE : SYDNEY : ADELAIDE
(See Coupon ar Right)
Dealers Established Everywhere.
COUPON.
Messrs. A. Q. Healing Ltd., 167-173 Frank-
lin St., Melbourne. 27 Hyde St. Adelaide.
208-10 Castlereagh St. Sydney.
Please post me latest Free Literature on
Atwater Kent Radio.
Name
Address
(FATON)


asdf
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors; Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), WM. TILLEY (Deputy Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN, ALEX. KING and Dr. C. A. THELANDEIt
Total Assets exceed £2,000,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
(O) in the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
' t } ie Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost evciy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Grand Opera
royal “The Silent House,
Criterion “Sexes and Sevens
Palace “The Laughing Optimist,
Empire ‘‘Top j 1 0!?.
ij- lvou Vaudeville
Majestic (Newtown) Sliakspearean Plays
Regent Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS EOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Girl friend,,
Royal “The Patsy,
New Comedy “The High Road
Athenaeum “New ® roo ™ s „
King’s “The Rudd Family”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hovt’s Moving Pictures
Antonio Fugazzola took the baton from
Bavagnoli and impressively controlled the
musical destinies of last week’s double
bill in the Melba-Williamson season at Syd-
ney Her Majesty’s. In the “Cavallena
half Arangi Lombardi’s portrayal of Santuzza
was so good that the audience threatened at
times to break the continuity of the theme
to pieces. Except that Minghetti took his
drinking and song too seriously, lie .was an
excellent Turiddu, and Rossi Morelli’s bari-
tone rose turbulently in wrath. With Ida
Mannarini, as Mamma Lucia, to help these,
the opera was the most tense of the season s
productions so far. Aurore Rettore, although
dramatically light for the Nedda of “Pag-
liacci,” had her moments in the Ballatella;
but Francesco Merli, who was Canio, gave
the representation a remarkable lift when he
set his emotions going after discovering his
wife’s faithlessness. The prologue gave
Apollo Granforte, who was Tonio, a great
chance. Granforte is not a man who misses
his chances.
* * * *
On Saturday Angelo Minghetti broke the
heart of “Madame Butterfly” (Hina Spam)
in a mellifluous voice, the clarity of which
makes it especially delightful. The lady
looked much more like a Madame Butterfly
than is usual. Emilio Ghirardini repre-
sented Uncle Sam with a pleasant baritone
and considerable dignity, and Luigi Gilla
was admirable and amusing.
“Thais,” with John Brownlee, Browning
Mummery and Lina Scavizzi in the cast, had
is introduction on Monday. It will reappear
on Thursday evening. To-night (Wednesday)
will see “The Barber of Seville,” which will
be repeated on Friday.
ELENA DANIELI, one of the sopranos of the Melba-Williamson
Opera Co., whose voice would bear hearing more often.
The very French comedy “Sexes and
Sevens,” presented by Margaret Bannerman
as her second offering at the Criterion last
Saturday, introduced to Sydney the stage
male courtesan. There is in the daring motif
material upon which much unpleasant comedy
might have been built; actually there is not
a fraction of the unpleasantness that is
dragged into a multitude of plays. The young
man is, in fact, a decent fellow, highly
indignant at the proposal made to him by the
millionaire business woman, and when he
discovers that he himself is a millionaire the
lady receives a sharp lesson. The play gives
Margaret Bannerman an opportunity to be
brilliant, especially in suggesting reaction in
the last act, and Francis Lister as the con-
ceited and audacious but gentlemanly Albert
steps out of the comparative obscurity into
which “Our Betters” thrust him, and exhibits
some polished actiug.
* * #
That mystery thrillers are still popular
was shown by the crowd which attended the
Sydney Royal on Saturday to welcome back
Moscovitch in “The Silent House.” Tliirteen-
stone of policeman might easily have relieved
the virtuous from their worries half-way
through the evening; but the play had been
written for four acts, and a death cabinet, a
room filled with gas and other roundabout
methods of destruction had to be introduced.
So Moscovitch, not a very convincing China-
man, continued to be mountainously villain-
ous until he seized a green serpent and
received a death-sting instead of quarter of
a million in bonds. Nat Madison is also a
Chinaman, and Reginald Newson is breezy
and direct as the man to whom the valuable
documents belong. The only female in the
cast, Bertha Riccardo, provides screams and
trembles to emphasise the heroism of the
good young man who loves and protects
her.
* * *
“The Taming of the Shrew” saw Petrucliio
Allan Wilkie giving a lesson in wifely obedi-
ence to Katharina Lorna Forbes at the
Newtown (Sydney) Majestic on Saturday.
The poor lady, having no court to which
she could fly for a maintenance order, went
through her full course, and matriculated
with high honors as a happy, dutiful wife.
With “The Winter’s Tale” to-niglit, ‘ Mac-
beth” on Thursday and “Hamlet” for a
farewell on Friday, the season closes; but
Wilkie, encouraged by his in bring-
ing Shakspeare to the suburban doorstep, is
continuing in some other suburbs, starting
with a week at the Coronation Hall, Bondi
junction, on Saturday.
* * ¥
“Top Hole” will be replaced at Sydney
Empire by “Models” on August 10. At the
St. James “Rio Rita” galaed for its 100th
performance on Monday. Percy Hutchison re-
mains “The Laughing Optimist” at the
Palace.
* X *
“The Face at the Window” peeped in at
the Sydney Grand Opera House on Saturday,
and will keep on
reappearing for
two weeks. Some-
one has given the
players a few in-
structions in the
art of serving the
raw beef of ancient
melodrama, an d,
although they have
not yet learned
to spurn the villain
with the full
throated anger of
the past, they do it
sufficiently well to
incite the gallery to
tear the silences
with applause.
Blanche McPher-
son, who appeared
as the distressed
herowhine, deserves
a special word of
commendation.
The bevy o f
b eauty which
flooded the Sydney
Tivoli stage on
Monday showed
that it can make
harmony equal to
that of most male
bands. The bevy
consists of 20 girls
the Tivoli manage-
ment calls the “In-
genues,” and they
are certainly good
to look at. Frank
O’Brien and Janice
Hart go on filling
most of the pro-
gramme at Fullers.
Miss Carrie Ten-
nant’s scheme for
giving trial per-
formances of Aus-
tralian plays gets
going at Burdekin House to-night (Wednes-
day) . For a week various one-act pieces
are to be staged.
¥ * ¥
A film of the Gallipoli campaign, very
interesting for its historical reconstruction,
in spite of many imperfections, is showing ac
the Sydney Piccadilly. “The Miracle of
Lourdes” is at the Adyar Hall. Next Satur-
day “The Garden of Allah will flower at the
Kc ' s “ t - * * *
Melbourne, which has let its lown Hall
for a long period for the purpose of showing
an American film, already has over a centuiy
of picture-palaces, not to mention the scores
of halls and concert-chambers given to occa-
sional outbreaks of celluloid. In addition, of
the inadequate eight “legitimate theatres, the
Palace, the Athenaeum and the Playhouse are
spasmodically addicted to the same complaint.
The Auditorium,
the only other con-
cert - chamber be-
sides the Tow n
Hall suitable for
the better class of
music, is constantly
being put out of
action in the same
way. Among the
events excluded
from the civic hall
by the Town Hall
authorities’ latest
move are pianist
Moiseiwitsch’s sea-
son, the popular
symphony concerts
on Saturday nights,
and a series by
John Brownlee —
an Esquimau sin-
ger from Geelong-
•ski, a town in the
Torrid zone, if the
civic bumbles want
to know. It used
to be understood
that movies would
not be allowed to
monopolise the
Town Hall if high-
class concerts re •
quired three dates
or more in the one
week, but in its
thirst for revenue
the Council has let
this arrangement
go by the board.
Recently, when a
permanent orches-
tra was mooted, the
Lord Mayor and
other of the city
papas crowded into
the limelight as
patrons of the har-
monious Muse; and
no doubt they Avill
have the hardihood to do so again.
¥ V
To the loud obligato provided by the ven-
tilating plant, the Vanboucicaults presented
Melbourne with “The High Road” at the
Comedy on Saturday. The elegantly con-
structed Lonsdale piece is one of the few
comedies of late in which the end of the
second act leaves you in some concern as to
what is going to happen in the next. The
fair Irene had little to do except to express
the tolerant philosophy of a middle-aged
woman of the world in pantomime, which
however, she did so deliciously that her
supremacy was not challenged by Gwynne
Whitby, who took the leading role. The
Vanbrugh can put more meaning into an
“Ah !” than most of the undergraduates of
academies of dramatic art with whom Bouci-
cault surrounds himself can put into a 15-
minute speech. J. B. Rowe’s conversation
over the trunk line to Paris was a small
masterpiece of drama, and Boucicault put
his good producer’s stamp on everything.
q. w
“She Knew What She Wanted,” no rela-
tion to “They Knew What They Wanted,”
and precious little relation, to anything in
th,e plot, is Frank Neil’s latest device for
separating the easily satisfied from their
coin at Melbourne Palace. The farce in it
is so subdued and the element of suggestion
so remarkably lacking that Mr. Neil is here-
by darkly suspected of an attempt to betray
his regular patrons and go after the audi-
ences of the Vanbrugh-Boucicaults.
* * #
“The Whiteheaded Boy,” by Lennox
Robinson, a sort of poor relation to Synge’s
“Playboy of the Western World,” provided
the Little Art Co. with an opportunity for
exuding some comedic talent at Melbourne
Queen’s Hall last week. Beresford Fowler
showed commendable restraint for once in
not taking the leading role, and the play went
all the better for having his undivided atten-
tion as producer. Of the large variety of
Irish types presented, Daisy Bradley’s Aunt
Eleen was the nearest to reality, and H. N.
Gregory’s John Duffy was the nearest to
being funny. Charles Doughtery’s portrayal
of a harassed father was well enough con-
ceived, but the impression he gives of being
perpetually on the point of disappearing
inside his shirt is disconcerting.
* * *
“The Girl Friend” will give the glad eye
to the multitude at Melbourne Majesty’s for
the last time on Friday so that “Hit the Deck”
can hit the public in the funnybone on
Saturday. “The Patsy’s” move from the
small King’s to the large Royal has not
caused the Firm any anxiety. Irene Homer
as an attraction proved equal to the emer-
gency. The Australian idiom in “The Rudd
Family” continues to be much appreciated
at the King’s. “Good News” is in its 20th
edition at the Princess, and “New Brooms”
satisfies the demands of Athenaeum clients.
* # *
Vera Moore, a young Maoriland pianist
who has wrung intoxicated expressions of
FRANCES DILLON, the bright star of the Percy Hutchison Co.,
at the Sydney Palace.
regard from the soberest European critics,
passed unassumingly through Melbourne last
week, dropping a couple of concerts on her
way. Miss Moore is a supremely confident
player. Under her reliable fingers Beet-
hoven’s Sonata, op. 27, No. 1, was revealed
as the loveliest and most ingenious thing
imaginable, and the monotony of Bach be-
came a velvet monotony, soothing to the
ear. If the lady had been introduced as
Mme. Moorevitchski, with a salute of 21
publicity puffs, she might have filled a larger
building than the Assembly Hall.
# *£•
Melbourne Tivoli continues to be mainly
Joe Kelso and co., but Jack Hennessy is a
small boy in an Eton .suit and a monologic
turn who deserves a pat on his smart young
head. Eeslie McCallurn is a beefy baritone
who has a bout with a harpischord, said to
be 150 years of age, and knocks the decrepit
and tinkly instrument out in the first round.
Meehan and Shannon are two comedy mer-
chants from U.S.A. who present a sketch
entitled “His Goose Is Cooked.” The bird
is mainly stuffed with chestnuts.
V
Ike Delavale’s revue co. serves its purpose
at Melb. Bijou. Ike finds his audiences ready
to burst into laughter before he opens his
mouth, his long, thin figure assisting in
obtaining this effect. He also puts the
hoary device of parodying his own show to
useful employment. In Freda Spry he has a
capable actress able to take the part of a
jealous wife to the ill manner born.
* * *
“Man, Woman and Son,” at Hoyt’s, is the
winner in this week’s Melbourne screen heart-
throb stakes. “Brass Knuckles,” at the Majes-
tic, is a hint to Police Commissioner Blarney
on how to increase the power of the force.
* * *
Boucicault ended his Adelaide season with
a piece of his clever over-acting that audi-
ences find delightful. At the Prince of Wales
is the uncomfortable “Yellow Ticket,” a sort
of modern Tosca. That fine actress Hilda
Dorrington gets a real chance at last, and
Carl Lawson as her Scarpia is not less
effective.
* •¥ *
Adelaide Repertory, after light comedy and
heavy gloom, dug up “A Woman of No
Importance” for its third show of the year.
Catherine Neill and Ray Walsh found the
leading characters easy, and the Wilde epi-
grams were safe in the mouth of Ethelwyn
Robin. Beryl Kook also stood out in a large
cast, which rather crowded the stage.


SAFE BREAKERS
are particularly active in City and Suburbs.
LOSSES OF CASH AND SECURITIES are daily being reported, and the
precautions taken are apparently of no avail.
BURGLARY INSURANCE to the business house has become as essential
as FIRE INSURANCE.
NEW ZEALAND INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone 8W1931/4 for our representative to call.
smurf
Acquire Right Knowledge
and Win Business Success
Accounting to-day is a specialised art, and only those who have
been properly trained in its principles and practice can hope to succeed.
and SecretSy. firSt to ' vards high executive rank b ? determining to qualify as an Accountant
The 8.1. A. course is the most modern and the most practical available in Australia Tt is
not theoretical. It has been compiled by men of eminence in business life and epitomises actual
current business experience. cywumises actual
When you have graduated through 8.1. A. you will be practised in handling the actual
transactions and solving the actual problems that will face you in your future business career
success in the examinations is guaranteed, and the fee is moderate and inclusive,
seize your opportunity and apply at once for full particulars.
BLENNERHASSETT’S INSTITUTE OF ACCOUNTANCY, LTD.,
Correspondence Coaches, Accountancy and Secretarial Specialists.
SYDNEY: Head Office, Herald Building, 66 Pitt Street. ’Phone B 5388.
NEWCASTLE: Commonwealth Bank Chambers, Newcomen Street
Newcastle 1895- ’ ’
BRISBANE: Ist Floor, Exton House, Queen Street. ’Phone, Central 2320
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Queensland National Bank.
Net To
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 108,346 10 p.c. = 53,144 55,202 278,766
1920.. 104,673 10 „ „ 77,274 27,399 306,165
1921.. 115,541 10 „ „ 79,746 35,795 341,960
1922. . 126,819 121 „ „ 99,952 26,867 308,827
1923.. 159,350 121 „ „ 100,000 (, Q , 1U17 „
Written off Premises .. £IO,OOO ) 49 ’ 350 418 > 1/ '
Premiums on new shares .. 147,512 565,689
1924.. 186.388 121p.c.= 137,880 )„„ „
Written off Premises .. £IO,OOO j 38 ’ 508 604,197
Premiums on new shares . . 12,488 616 685
1925. . 196,946 10 p.c. = 125,181 1, 0 „, r Q _.
Written off premises, £12.500 f u 9,265 670,900
1926.. 207,176 10 p.c. = 148,977 J. ~ 701 ...
Written off premises, £12,500 ) 4o ’ 699 '“1,649
1927. . 204,702 10 p.c. = 150,000 (. , 0 ono
Written off premises, £12,500 )
1928.. 211,960 10 p.c. = 172,139 { gQ aOl
Written off premises, £IO,OOO j
Shortly before the close of accounts in
1927 50,000 new £5 shares were issued at
par. That made paid capital £1,749,958, of
which £949,958 had been subscribed since
1923. Since then reserves also have visibly
benefited by £375,495, including £160,000 of
share premiums. That is to say, at June
oO there was £1,325,453 more belonging to
shareholders in the business than there was
live years earlier- —a remarkable expansion
considering that about SO p.c. of the bank’s
risks are in Queensland, which has not yet
wholly recovered from the depression that
began in 1924, and upon the heels of which
came a gruelling drought that still holds
the country west and north of Longreach.
The inevitable result of all this has been
a marked decline in earning power of capi-
tal. After allowing for the £IO,OOO struck
off premises, the balance of last year’s net
earnings (£201,960) was 11.7 p.c. on aver-
age capital compared with 12.8, 13.1, 14.7
and 16 p.c. back to 1924, when bank clear-
ances in Brisbane touched a slightly higher
level than during the 1920-21 boom. In
addition to visible reserves of £793.672,
capital has the assistance of £3,091,669 of
interminable debenture stock costing only
34 p.c. Including the stock with capital
and the interest with profits, last years
net result was 5.4 p.c. on average funds,
which have to earn only about 3 p.c. in
order to pay 10 p.c on capital as it stood at
the close of accounts.
A year ago it was proposed to pay off, at
par, original holders of the deposit stock;
but shareholders, who had gone hungry for
23 years after the smash of the ’ninetiefe,
made it plain that the necessary resolution
might not be passed, so the board decided to
drop the matter. Other reminders of 30-
odd years ago are the bank’s interests in
Millaquin Sugar and Q. N. Pastoral. The
former co. paid 10 p.c. last year and 12 p.c.
for two years before that, but the latter
co., which has been hit hard by the drought,
has not handed the ords. anything since
1920, and a cut is to be made in capital as
soon as the losses can be definitely
measured up. It is unlikely, though, that
that will have much, if any, visible effect
upon the bank’s figures, as it may betaken
for granted that the holding has been
severely written down. The bank has gone
through a long, course of preparation to
meet contingencies such as have arisen in
Western Queensland during the last three
years, and general-manager Haymen has the
reputation of being a safe banker. On the
whole, sheep losses have not been as severe
as were at first anticipated. Over 70 p.c.
of Queensland is in a healthy condition ;
the outlook in the dairying and sugar dis-
tricts is distinctly bright; the wheat har-
vest promises to be the heaviest on record,
and business generally, even in Brisbane,
shows signs of improvement.
Balance-sheet movements reflect a return
to more normal conditions:—
Liabilities.
1922. 1926. 1927. 1928.
£'£ £ £
Paid capital 800,000 1,500,000 1,607,165 1,749,958
Interminable
stock . . 3,091,669 3,091,669 3,091,669 3,091,669
Bills, etc... 350,078 542,493 712,405 431,621
Deposits .. 6,898,730 8,566,481 8,574,176 9,026,995
Liquid assets 4,056,621 4,335,196 4,110,156 4,382,200
Advances.. 6,994,272 9,591,06510,138,66210,229,185
Premises .. 500,411 533,531 637,948 526,279
The outstanding, feature of the sheet is an
increase of £452,820 in deposits, and of
only £90,523 in advances. The cut of
£280,784 in acceptances is not a bad sign
either.
At June 30 depositors and others could
see 46.3 p.c. of their money in liquid form
compared with 44.2 p.c. a year earlier. In-
cluding the deposit stock with the bank’s
funds, it was holding only £1 13s. 7d. of
the public’s money for every £1 of its own ;
the figure was £1 14s. when the books closed
in 1927. Obviously there is room for a good
deal of expansion there without peril.
Ordinarily such a low proportion of out-
side money would mean small earning power,
but the low interest on the deposit stock and
the _ substantial inner reserves accumulated
during the long years of regeneration affect
the position materially. Premises have a
written-down value of £526,279, of which
£170,000 is revenue producing.
The policy now is to maintain the div.
at 10 p.c. and make new share issues at par.
The market values the £5 paid shares at
£9 4s. 6d. The immediate return at that
figure is 5.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis;
and the visible backing £7 ss. 4d. in net tan-
gibles.
Port Jackson and Manly Steamship.
To Re- Re-
June, Profits’. Dividends. serves, serves.
L £ £ £
1918.. 30,168 13jp.c.= 28,162 2,006 68,160
1919.. 27,752 13$ „ „ 28,162
1920. . 1 13J „ „ 28,162 ? ?
Cos. reconstructed and split in two. Assets written up.
Two £1 shares paid to 15s. in new ferry co.
issued for every one similarly paid up in old co.,
and_ also one fully-paid £1 6 p.c. participating
pref. share in subsidiary insurance co. for every
two in old co.
1921.. 25,870 6 p.c. = 25,345 525 2,891
1922.. 26,411 6 „ ~ 25,345 1,066 3,957
1923.. 32,186 6 „ „ 25,345 6,841 10,798
1924.. 25,406 6 „ „ 25,345 61 10,859
1925.. 30,203 7 „ „ 29,570 633 11,492
1926.. 25,003 7 „ „ 29,570
1927.. 2,727 Nil 2,727 9,652
1928.. 10,116 3 p.c. = 12,673
In 1927 shareholders were toll that, com-
pared with three years earlier, exes, were
£30,000 p.a. heavier, while revenue from
services was only £7OOO p.a. better; and
most of the high cost factors remain. How-
ever, half-way through the last term an extra
Is. was tacked on to the weekly fare; also
the co. discontinued its cargo service. The
net result was that the declared profit
(£10,116) was £7389 better than in the
previous year. . But it was still equal to only
2.4 p.c. on capital. Nevertheless a recent im-
provement encouraged the board to hand
out 3 p.c., though it had to dip into the hand-
ful of reserves to do it. If costs can be kept
in hand, something better may be looked for
at next balance.
Another part of the co.’s troubles dates
back to the reconstruction of eight years
ago, when the business was split in two,
the book value of the fleet multiplied by
three and bonus scrip handed out for the
difference. That was when prices were at
their peak, and for every share paid to 15s.
in the old co. shareholders got scrip paid to
40s. in the two new cos. Since then ship values
have slumped so heavily that the ordinary sub-
stantial provision for depreciation has been
quite inadequate. In order to adjust the
position the board now proposes to write
down the book value of the fleet (£421,439
at June 30) by £140,808, and to square
accounts ss. per share is to be lopped off
capital. That will reduce paid capital to
£281,616 in 563,232 15s. shares paid to 10s.
Of course, this will not affect the co.’s earn-
ings ; but better dividends will be possible
than if large sums had to be annually set
aside to meet depreciation and contingencies.
On a capital of £281,616 an 8 p.c. div. would
call for £22,529, and only for the last two
out of the past 20 years has the co. netted
less than that.
But conditions have changed of late, and
the past cannot be altogether accepted as
a reliable guide to the future. In addition
to mounting costs there is the Harbor Bridge,
now taking shape, and its completion will
mean the extension of the suburban rail-
ways system to Manly. Yet that may not
prove disastrous t 0 the co.; it may, indeed,
make it easier for the co. to increase fares;
and if the run can be done by water in
less time than by rail, the boats will carry a
good volume of even the regular week-day
traffic. It is unlikely that the co. will be
disturbed in its monopoly of the wharves so
long as it continues to give efficient service.
Two new boats, the Dee Why and Curl
Curl, which the co. has had built in Britain,
are on their way to Australia. They will
replace the Kuring-gai and Bingarra, which
will be offered for sale. The price of the
new vessels has not been disclosed, but their
cost to June 30 added £50,793 to the book
value of steamers (£374,351).
Here is the co.’s position as balance-sheet
figure disclose it, with comparisons back to
T . . , 1922. 1927. 1928.
Liquid assets .. £45,961 £79,947 £35,745
Liabilities .. .. 47,432 15,815 14,992
Excess liabilities * £1,471
Surplus assets ..
Fixed assets .. £440,525 £367,945 £421,439
During the year £2701 was added to free-
hold, plant, etc. (£47,088) ; thus the net
increase in fixed assets was £53,494. On
the other hand investments (£26,971) were
drawn upon for .£41,328, and the shrinkage
in the more or less liquid surplus (£20,753)
was £43,379.
Future net earnings will largely depend
upon whether the writing down proves to be
sufficient and upon what is put by out of
future earnings for further depreciation and
contingencies. On the basis of figures at
June 30, and after allowing for the writing
down, each 10s. share will have a net tan-
gible backing of 10s. 2d., mostly in ships.
The market value of the scrip, which was
at 14s. a month ago, dropped sharply follow-
ing the recent announcement. Buyers, 95.;
sellers, 11s.
The Castle Salt Co-operative Cos. (Adelaide) •
Nominal
Written To Re- Re-
May, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £> £, £, £,
19X8.. 8,924 10 p.c. = 6585 2000 339 8,852
1919.. 13,345 124 „ „ 8231 4000 1114 9,960
1920.. 11,014 10 „ „ 6585 2650 1779 11,745
Transferred to capital, £9150 .. 2,595
Loss. Deficit.
1921.. 1,656 3J p.c.= 2813
Nominal
Profit. Reserves.
1922.. 2.092 Nil
1923.. 7,316 8| p.c. = 6562 646 108 326
1924.. 2,847 24 „ „ 1875 646 326 652
1925.. 6,721 74 „ „ 5625 1096
Loss. Deficit.
1926.. 1,278 Nil
1927.. 2,417 Nil 477
1928.. 1,185 Nil 1099
A year ago mention was made of economies
and shareholders were asked to look for the
result at next balance. But competition be-
came more vigorous, and gross profit (£1951)
improved only £478; the cut of £754 in
out-go was not enough, so a trading loss of
£llßs showed up compared with a loss of
£2417 in 1927. More was written off for
depreciation; hence the total loss (£2284)
was only £6lO less than in the previous
year. That made the visible deficit £5804,
in addition to which there is an unspecified
amount of goodwill shoved in with freehold,
leasehold and plant (£56,432, down £B6l
during the year).
Anew and more economical refining plant
is being installed, and it is hoped that
further losses will thus be avoided. But
there is not likely to be much in the busi-
ness for shareholders until the cut-throat
competition ends. Thus far nothing material
has come out of the talk about amalgamation
of S. Aus. cos. in the business, though such
a course has obvious advantages. In addi-
tion to eliminating price-cutting it should
make for lower operating costs; and that
is essential, especially where margins are
narrow. Moreover, in some seasons it is
unprofitable to work certain areas, and that
wouldn’t matter if the lot were under one
control. There is further evidence of hard
times in the marked downward trend of’ the
more or less liquid surplus:—
1924. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Stocks .. .. £26,654 £39,220 £28,772 £22,589
Book debts .. 2,741 4,994 2,366 5,091
Cash, etc. .. 3,357 85 42 19
Liquid assets .. £32,752 £44,299 £31,180 £27,699
Liabilities .. 4,493 22,185 16,386 14,293
Liquid surplus.. £28,259 £22,114 £14,794 £13,406
Over the last four years £5988 has been
added to the book value of fixed assets, while
the more or less liquid surplus has shrunk
£14,853. That is to say, shareholders, who
have averaged a shade under 2 p.c., are vis-
ibly £8865 worse off than they were at the
close of accounts in 1924. Stock (£22,589),
which has been reduced £16,631 in the last
two years, is said to be sufficient for the
current year’s trade.
The recent run of losses, the erratic be-
havior of profits before that, the inflation
of the capital eight years back and the
absence, of reserves have heavily discounted
the scrip in the market. The best recent
quote for the pound shares was 3s. 3d. On
paper the net tangible cover amounts to 18s.
5d., mostly in plant worth what it can
earn.
North Coast Steam Navigation Cos.
. . . To Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends, serves. Reserves.
1918.. 29,845 9 p.c. = 27,000 2,845 88,012
1919.. 50,920 9 „ „ 27,675 23.245 111,257
1920.. 52,430 10 „ „ 35,664 16,766 128,023
1921.. 60,973 10 „ „ 39,471 21,502 149,525
June,
1922.. 25,737 10 „ „ 19,736 6,001 155,526
1923.. 51.469 10 „ „ 39,471 11.998 167,524
1924.. 44,498 10 „ „ 39,471 5,027 172,551
1925.. 42,047 10 „ „ 39,471 2,576 175,127
1926.. 42,181 10 „ „ 39,471 2,710 177,837
Transferred to capital, £48,986 . . 128,851
1927.. 53,503 10 p.c. = 41,920 11,583 140,434
1928.. 52,032 10 „ „ 44,370 7,662 148,096
The difference between the profit claimed by
the board (£47,053) and the £52,032
shown in the last line of the table represents
unexplained additions to the “insurance and
repairs suspense accounts, etc.,” which
stood at £105.589 when the books were ruled
off at June 30. The £52,032 was 8.8 p.c. on
average funds (capital aud reserves com-
bined) compared with 9.2, 7.4, 7.4 and 7.9
p.c. back to 1924. It is a surprisingly good
result considering the extent to which car-
goes must have been affected by the loss of
farm produce through floods on the Clarence
and Richmond Rivers. Also the co. is feel-
ing severely the effects of steadily mount-
ing costs, and claims for further increases
in wages, etc., are pending in the Common-
wealth Arbitration Court.
A little over a year ago, when the out-
look for coastal shipping was not all that
it might have been, the board gave share-
holders a pleasant surprise by handing out
£48,986 of bonus scrip—the insurance and
repairs suspense account, which has been
built up as profits have permitted, was
dipped into for £40,(X)0 of it. That made
paid capital £443,700 and added £4899 to
the 10 p.c. div. To pay this funds at ,Tun<*
30 had to earn 7-J p.c., and for only three out
of the last five years has more than that
been disclosed. Of recent years the co.’s
passenger traffic has suffered by competi-
tion from the North Coast Railway, but it
still holds the whip hand as far as goods
are concerned, and growing settlement is
helping the business on the cargo side.
Two new oil-burning ships were added to
the fleet last year. The Nimbin a thousand-
tonner, which started work in September, is
reported to be a success; and equally good
results are expected from the Melinga,
which arrived from England shortly before
the close of accounts. The only loss during
the year was the Uralla, which became a
total wreck on Stockton beach last month.
Since the fleet, reported to be in good order,
is fully covered by outside underwriters,
the “insurance, etc.” account is not likely
to be disturbed.
The recent purchases and the co.’s snug
financial position show up in this compari-
son of balance-sheet figures :
1924. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital.. £394,714 £394,714 £443,700 £443,700
Liabilities . . 33,818 40,802 30,644 7,475
Ships.. .. 3 64,0 1 5 3 93,68 9 3 85,01 2 3 97,480
Freeholds, etc. 28,9 1 2 3 6,4 8 7 35,9 7 0 3 5,759
Liquid . . 227,891 202,913 215,981 188,217
During the year liquids—they include cash
and Government securities, £73,321; book
debts, £66,042; shares in other cos., £33,115;
coal and stores, £15,739 —-were drawn upon
for £27,764, and £23,169 was clipped off the
debt, reducing it to £7475; thus the more
or less liquid surplus (£180,742) was £4595
less than at the previous balance. The
book value of the fleet (£397,480) increased
only £12,465, a suggestion that depreciation
receives careful attention. There is probably
a little hidden strength in freeholds (£35,759),
which is only £7602 above the figure at
which the item stood in the books 10 years
ago.
The market values the scrip at 295. 3d.
At that price the investor buys an immediate
return of 6.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis,
and net tangibles with a book value of
265. Bd., mostly ships.
Marchant’s, Ltd. (Sydney).
Net To
May, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1918.. 4254 7 p.c. 4193 61 3,615
1919.. 5999 7 „ „ 4193 1,806 5,421
1920.. 5220 7 „ „ 4193 1,027 6,448
1921.. 4378 7 „ ~ 4193 185 6,633
1922.. 8096 7 ~ 5066 3,030 9,663
1923.. 9198 10 „ „ 7253 1,945 11,608
Profit on property sale.. 734 12,342
1924.. 8593 10 p.c. = 7253 1,340 13,682
1925.. 8040 10 „ „ 7253 787 14,469
1926.. 8552 10 „ „ 7253 1,299 15,768
1927.. 7985 10 „ „ 7253 732 16,500
1928.. 8351 10 „ ~ 7253 1,098 17,598
Turnover in this little soft drinks co..
which has a paid capital of £72,534, was well
above the average, but the declared net
profit (£8351) benefited by only £366,
making it 11.5 p.c. on capital compared with
11, 11.8, 11.1 and 11.8 p.c. back to 1924.
They are satisfactory results considering
that there was only 245. lOd. of net tan-
gibles at work to earn profits for each £1
of capital at May 30; the amount was
235. lOd. at the close of accounts in 1924.
That, however, does not give the 10 p.c.
div. a very secure look, although the same
rate has been maintained for the past six
years. The remarkable evenness of earnings,
despite keen competition, variations in sea
sons and the upward tendency of costs, sug-
gests that everything is not always put on
view. Gross earnings and exes, are not
published, the bare net result being written
into the sheet after the board has put aside
whatever has been considered necessary for
taxation, depreciation, etc.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
certainly suggests that the board could have
written last year’s result at a bigger figure
if it had wanted to: —
1924. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital . . £72,534 £72,534 £72,534 £72,534
Liabilities . . 4,322 ' 5,049 1,652 1,624
Freeholds, buildings,
etc. . . . . 42,825 39,224 40,274 42 227
Plant, etc. .. 23,027 22,875 26,526 18 076
Stocks . . . . 13,330 10,538 13,129 10,193
Book debts and cash 21,359 30,718 20,511 32,013
During the year nearly £2OOO more was spent
upon freeholds (£42,227) than was written
off. On the other hand no less than £8450


Even a short ride
will convince you
I
that the
perfected
is “the most valuable car ever
offered for so little money
Whippet
There is an element of pleased
surprise in driving the WHIP-
PET for the first time that can-
not be fully expressed in words.
There has never been another
light car of its class that has given
the same feeling of fine car thrill.
And now you can buy it at an
unbelievably low price its
quality unchanged, its equip-
ment improved, its performance
proven by more than 200,000
owners in millions of miles of
driving.
Even a short ride in a WHIP-
PET will demonstrate the car’s
remarkable qualities flashing
acceleration, great power on
hills or heavy roads, high speed
instantly and for a long distance,
with a sense of complete safety
inspired by its road-hugging
low-centre of gravity, and its
large, mechanical four-wheel
brakes. It offers easy riding,
convenient handling, easy park-
ing, unusual beauty of line and
colours—and above all—unpre-
cedented economy.
There are six handsome body
styles. Choose one of those now
on display in our showrooms
and let a trial drive convince
you of the superlative quality
and performance of this Over-
land Whippet.
ammk
m
A
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED, 148 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY., LIMITED, 117-21 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE
E G. EAGER & SON, LIMITED, Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, Franklin Street, ADELAIDE.
ADAMS’ MOTORS, LIMITED, 442 Murray Street, PERTH.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LIMITED, 53-56 Bathurst Street, HOBART.
WILLYS
OVERLAND FINE MOTOR CARS


Financing Factories.
Big Money in it.
This is one of many matters “THE
‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY” for July
discusses.
Saturation Point:
Has it been reached?
That s another point discussed.
The Investor can’t do without it.
NOW READY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/(3.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock -f- GP -f- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
As well as being non-corroding, Pioneer Wood Pipe
has other practical advantages that make it wonder-
fully convenient. It is very light, weighing only
one-third as much as metal pipe, easy to handle and
simple to instal. It retains initial capacity through-
out its long service and incurs no upkeep. Write
for a free copy of a book of complete reliable in-
formation. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road (near Fig Tree Bridge), Lane Cove,
N.S.W. ; and at Footseray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney. —Advt.
INSURE WITH THE
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
16 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Manager.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
May’s Broadcast Fertilizer Spreader.
iw
m-;,
fine
The Machine is attached at rear of
Vehicle and works close to the
ground.
Spreads up to 40 feet. Any
quantity up to 1 ton per acre.
Quantities regulated whilst at
work. No skill required.
SIMPLE—CHEAP—EFFECTIVE.
SEND FOR BOOKLET.
Price—£2o nett f.o.r. Melbourne; £2l nett f.o.r. Sydney.
For use with Spring Cart.
£2 extra for Motor Lorry attachments.
CALL AND INSPECT.
Agents: GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 10-12 Parramatta Road, Sydney.
IUST PUBLISHED.
“Geophysics in Mining”
BY E. DE HAUTPICK, F.G.S.,
FIVE YEARS’ PRACTICE.
INVENTORY OF PRINCIPLES & RESULTS.
“Radium: Future Use”
TELEVISION—GAMMA RAYS.
BY E. DE HAUTPICK, F.G.S.
“How Radium Occurs
in Nature”
Forms of Radium Ore Deposits.
Radium Future Supply (South Australian
Radium Possibilities).
BY E. DE HAUTPICK, F.G.S.
Author of “THE SEARCH FOR RADIUM”
(London, 1910). Forthcoming Volume—
“ Are There Oil Deposits
in Australia?”
BY E. DE HAUTPICK, F.G.S.
was lopped off the book value of plant, etc.,
reducing it to £38,076. Probably as the
result in part of that, there was a sub-
stantial improvement in an already good
P° s , itio , n - Cash (£16,828) increased
-8 < ; book debts (£12,185) were down
£<81; stocks (£10,193) were in at £2936
Jess than at the previous balance, and are
lower than at any time since 1922. The trifle
ot liabilities (£1624) was practically un-
changed ; thus the more or less liquid sur-
plus ;(£40,582) was strengthened by £8594,
the improvement since 3924 being £10,215.
4he market, which looks at the slender
.visible support for capital in the way of
reserves, offers only 22si for the scrip;
sellers ask 245. At the middle price the
return is a shade over 84 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis.
Northern Steamship Cos., Ltd.
~ To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1922.. 16,086 7 p.c. = 11,299 4,787 57,457
1923.. 30,497 7 „ „ 11,299 19,198 76,655
1924.. 17,265 74,, ~ 12,106 5,159 81,814
1925.. 24,800 8 „ ~ 12,913 11,887 93,701
1926.. 14,342 8 „ ~ 12,913 1,429 95,130
1927.. 10,507 8 ~ „ 12,913
1928.. 15,477 8 ~ „ 12,913 2,564 95,288
This co.’s fleet has been poking in and out
of Maoriland’s east-coast harbors since the
early eighties of last century. Paid capital
has been steady at £163,412 since before
the war, and after a long run of 7 p.c. divs.
shareholders have had 8 p.c. p.a. for the
last four years, though a year ago reserves
had to be robbed of £2406 to do it. In the
last term trade was better, there were no
serious mishaps to the fleet and two new
cargo vessels were at work. Nevertheless,
the board wrote the year’s net profit
(£13,230) only £ll4 above the 1927 figure,
though that was after £1587 had been dropped
into No. l insurance account (£55,407),
and £O6O into No. 2 account (£20,072).
There is in addition a boilers and repairs
account (£10,505). unchanged during the
last few years. The £15,477 thus netted
was 9.6 p.c. on capital compared with 6.5,
8.9, 15.4 and 10.7 p.c. back to 1924.
The Manaia, wrecked on Slipper Island
in 1927, was replaced by the Hauturu, which
arrived from Glasgow early in the term, and
together with the Toa, a locally built wooden
craft, is reported to be giving satisfaction.
Taking into account the £12,275 paid on
new ships when the books closed in 1927,
recent purchases have added £25,135 to the
book value of vessels, plant, etc. (£193,163)
—the item is less an unspecified amount
knocked off for depreciation. This compari-
son of balance-sheet figures shows what has
happened:—
1921. 1927. ] 928.
Liabilities .. .. £83,426 £58,373 £53,232
Vessels, plant, etc. . . 196,821 180,303 193,163
Premises . . . . 13,671 11,697 11,432
Coal and stores . . 25,639 10,829 8,747
Investments . . . . 33,800 84,918 73,008
Book debts, etc. . . 33,227 31,218 30,038
Investments (£73,008) were drawn upon
for £11,910, and one way and another more
or less liquids (£111,793) contracted
£15,172, but £5141 was lopped off the debt
(£53,232), which includes provision for
taxation, and that reduced the shrinkage in
the more or less liquid surplus (£58,561) to
£10,031. The surplus was only £9240 seven
years ago; so, looked at from that angle,
there has been definite improvement.
The paids (14s. 6d.), which have a net
tangible backing of 21s. 4d., are priced at
15s. on the market. The return at this figure
is 7.7 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div basis, and given
normal conditions that rate is not likely to
be disturbed.
Were’s Investment Trust is being launched
in Melbourne by J. B. Were and Son, the
sharebrokers. Nominal capital is £1,000,000
in ss. shares, of which 500,000 are offered,
payable in full on application. The mini-
mum holding is 40 shares (£10) ; after that
purchases may be made in multiples of 20
shares (£5) while the present issue remains
open. No cash or share consideration is
payable in respect of the float. The funds
of the trust are to be spread over a range
of first-class securities, and while this ought
to mean safety of capital, it is also pretty
certain to mean small returns to begin with.
However, the promoters are confident of
being able to pay 7 p.c. divs. from the time
the whole £125,000 is subscribed.
The idea behind the scheme is the pooling
of small savings for collective investment,
thus ensuring to the small investor advan-
tages that accrue only from operations on a
large scale and the knowledge of when to
make a profitable exchange of stocks. Capi-
tal profits made in this way usually remain
in the business, and when reserves begin to
accumulate their reinvestment should gradu-
ally enable better divs. to be paid.
In this class of undertaking practically
everything depends upon management, and in
that respect the trust starts under very
favorable circumstances. Also its associa-
tion with the parent organisation should
cheapen administrative costs, which are not
expected to exceed 5 p.c. of the gross revenue.
Preliminary exes., including brokerage
(21 p.c.), are put at a moderate £3525. It
is not intended to list the scrip at present.
On the board are W. F. Geaeh (chairman)
and Stan Ricketson, two of the partners in
J. B. Were and Son, and C. tl. Salmon, of
Mcllwraith, McEacharn, Ltd.
* * * *
It is announced that the first area to. be
surveyed geophysically by Broughton Edge,
of London, and his assistants will be the
brown coal deposits at Yarram, Gippsland.
What for? The district from Toora through
Welshpool to Alberton has been thoroughly
bored by the Victorian Mines Department;
and the holes made by hand and machine
number about 200. It would be much more
to the point to decide a contest waged be-
tween the Electricity Commission and the
State Mines Department for the control of
this valuable brown coal field. The Com-
mission wishes to have control of every
deposit of brown coal in Victoria that has
not been already alienated, arguing that
it will want every ton of it for electric
supply for many years to come, and it de-
mands that no further alienation of bi’own
coal deposits shall occur. The Mines Depart-
ment, on the other hand, claims that it is
the proper trustee of all the coal, black or
brown, in the State. The consequence of
this disagreement is that a magnificent
deposit of brown coal extending from Hedley
to Gelliondale and away north has re-
mained undeveloped. Two English cos. with
modern retorts wish to start oil-distilling and
ammonia-recovery factories near Welshpool,
but the Minister for Mines is unable to
entertain their proposals. The opening up
of mines and factories would add a new pro-
vince to Gippsland.
* * * *
A Melbourne group has accepted Hampden -
Cloncurry’s offer of its shareholdings in
Metal Manufactures Pty., Ltd., and Elec-
trolytic Refining and Smelting Co. Settle-
ment is to be made on Aug. 21. Om com-
pletion of the deal, liquids will amount to
approximately £310,000. equal to 17s. 8d.
per share. The realisable value of the
assets that remain is expected to be com-
paratively small. At Aug. 31 last the mine
had a written down book value of £200.442.
The co. was unsuccessful in its merger
negotiations with Mt. Elliott, and its assets
have been up for sale for some time, but
thus far little of the plant and machinery
has been disposed of. Buyers offer 17s. 7d.
for the scrip.
❖ ❖ :!c >]:
The field superintendent for Guinea Gold
reports much enhanced values on the high
terraces of Koranga Creek. This improve-
ment is a continuation of the enrichment
discovered about three months ago by Prike
and Joubert, who own the properties further
up the creek, near a covered crater formation.
During the last six months economies were
effected which reduced working costs by over
60 per cent., and further savings are expected
after completion of the head races on the
west bank at the end of this month.
Present costs will enable the co. to attack
high ground with heavy overburden. Much
of the ground which hitherto seemed hopeless
is to-day yielding a profit. A block of 80
acres has been pegged on Little Wau Creek,
and a sample sent to Adelaide assayed £2
10s. 4|d. per ounce, which is similar to
the usual Koranga values. There was not
sufficient data for a definite valuation per
cubic yard, but at the point tested about
5s. per yard is thought to be a safe estimate.
Values are lower towards the junction with
the main Wau Creek, which is not gold
bearing.
Little Wau Creek derives its gold from the
Edie Mountain and may prove a valuable
piece of ground. Wash is known to be at
least 16 feet deep and the property is handy
to the Wau aerodrome. At the bottom end
of Kaili the Edie Creek has been diverted
and a cut made through the point which is
considered to be the richest part of the river
above Cliffside. It is proposed to strip the
overburden by turning the full force of the
Edie Creek waters over it, then to box the
ground and get the gold out quickly.
In addition to the ground on Koranga
Creek under option to Corbould, three side
leases have been pegged. On one of these a
monitor is blowing down overburden at the
old Koranga Camp site. Testing is also
proceeding on these properties.
$ * $ $
Contrary to expectations the resurrection
of Golden Horseshoe (W.A.) has not been as
glorious as was anticipated. Shares hardened
on a report that a local co. proposed to
bring the show back to life, and went higher
on a rumor that the Lake View and Star
was lending a hand. Then came the
announcement that the Transvaal Agency,
Ltd., was guaranteeing an issue of 600,000
preferred ord. shares, and the market
for ordinaries tumbled. It may be some
time before it rises again.
The Transvaal Agency has advanced
£20,000 to the co. to meet pressing liabilities.
In consideration of this it has been given
an option on 200,000 preferred shares at 6s.
until the end of Dec., 1929. The guaranteed
issue of preferred shares will give the co.
immediately about £IIO,OOO net, and if the
option on the additional 200,000 is exercised,
a further £60,000 after defraying all liabili-
ties except the £50,000-odd guaranteed at the
bank by the State Government. The latter
is willing to allow this guarantee to continue
so that the full amount provided under the
scheme of reconstruction by shareholders and
the Transvaal Agency will be available for
development and improvement of plant.
Sons of Gwalia’s accounts for 1927 show
a net loss of £BO7O. Work is proceeding in
connection with the additional equipment
and renewed development rendered possible
by the financial assistance of the State Gov-
ernment, and will probably be continued for
some years. Shareholders are not likely to
benefit much ; employment, however, will be
found for several hundred men, the adjacent
settlements of Gwalia and Leonora will be
kept alive, and the country will benefit in
railway freights, etc.
* *
The lame, halt and blind among indigent
Adelaide goldmining cos. have taken options
at the recently discovered Twin Hills (W.A.)
and are whooping about their luck. The
field is in greenstone country and is said
to have prospects; but so long as the pegged
ground is in the hands of concerns with
scarcely a feather to fly with, Twin Hills
is not the sort of place for the unsophisti-
cated to take an interest in.
* * * *
Last February chairman Urquhart stated
in Perth that the Russo-Asiatic Cos. was put-
ting up £IO,OOO and the State Government
£SOOO to test the Braeside silver-lead mines
on the East Pilbara field (W.A.). Plants
have now been installed and boring started.
Sydney and Perth, represented by Jock
Thomson, have been interested in Braeside
for some years, and between them have sunk
a fair amount of capital there.
* * * *
Flushed with success W.A. Airways, Ltd.,
which recently secured the contract for the
Perth-Adelaide air-mail service, is increas-
ing its capital from £50,000 to £150,000.
Present shareholders will be given the first
chance of taking up the new shares.
* ❖ * *
Despite condemnation and ridicule Peel
Estate near Fremantle (W.A.) is still being
stabbed and jabbed for oil. Again and. again
samples submitted for Government analysis
have been found to contain fluid of vegetable
origin, and still the search goes on. Now
the Government Analyst has notified the oil
hunters that until some tangible evidence of
mineral oil occurrences can be produced no
further analyses will be made by the Depart-
ment.
* * * *
Tinglia Tin (N.S.W.) decided in 1927
to go div.-gdthering in Malaya and floated
Tinglia Eastern Development, now known as
Tinglia Associated, with a capital of £150,000
in £1 shares for the purpose. General-
manager Wilson reports that, so far. his
quest in Malaya and Siam has proved fruit-
less. After 17 properties had been inspected
he secured an option at Kuala Dipang; but
a mining lease could not be obtained because
of interference with the water rights of the
Perak Hydro-electric Co.’s power works.
Another application for an area in Negri
Sembilan was also refused, apparently from
fear of stream pollution, though there is a
possibility of the matter being reconsidered.
Negotiations are now proceeding for an
option over part of the Kundang Rubber
Estate, Selangor. At Dec. 31 Tingha’s paid
capital was £55,620. The mine, less £24,232
transferred to conversion of assets account,
stood in the books at £SOO ; plant and mach-
inery, less £19.406 similarly transferred, at
£2sßl—conversion of assets account figures
at only £34,280 —development and prospect-
ing, £2897; shares in other cos., £SOOO ; de-
posits and cash, £9273; debtors, £122.
Creditors were owed £33. Tin won during
the year was worth- £217, and exes, were
£3BOO. Negotiations for disposing of the
suction-cutter dredge were proceeding.
* ❖ *
Jelapang Tin, a Tanah Biji float, announ-
ces a net profit of £4252 for the year to
December 31 last. The dredge, which only
began digging three months earlier, recovered'
64 tons, averaging .591 b. to the yard. The
show was expected to produce 60 tons a
month when the plant Was in full running
order, but so far returns have been short
of this. For the second quarter of this
year 70 tons were won from .461 b. dirt. The
return for the first quarter was 65 tons, and
thus far the dredge has been unable to turn
over the expected 130,000 yards per month,
though working costs have been kept com-
mendably low of late. Dredge returns show
a slight improvement. For the first half
of July 15 tons was Avon from 47,000 yards;
average, .711 b. Capital is £120,000. At the
close of accounts the co. owed £15.560. More
or less liquids totted up to £5617. The mine
was in at £70.588; dredge, £51,736: other
equipment, etc., £4444; development £5486.
Malayan tin returns for the first half of
July were patchy, and generally indicate a
drop on the June figures. liawang’s 10 tons
from 56,000 yards is a case in point; June
figures were 20 tons from 97,000 yards.
Ivundang, however, the ugly duckling of the
Alluvial Tin family to date, surprised its
friends with 19 tons from 70,000 yards, and
should more than top the 30 tons which used
to be expected of it. June recoveries were
28 tons from 100,000 yards. Kampar Tin
Fields dropped with 70 tons from 250,000
yards, previous figures being 145 tons from
460,000 yards, so output and average arc
likely to be smaller for July. Changkat also
failed to retain its prestige, 20 tons coming
from 49,000 yards, while June’s figures were
60 tons from 80,000 yards. Jelapang im-
proved from 22 tons from 107,000 yards in
June to 15 tons from 47,000 yards for the
July fortnight, the best-looking average for
some time. Larut turned over 159,000 yards
for a recovery of 30 tons, which is worse
than June’s return of 91 tons from 352,000
yards.
Amongst the Austral Malays, Kampong
maintained its sprint of last month by col-
lecting 40.25 tons from 61,000 yards, June’s
figures being 97 tons from 146,000 yards.
Asam just about maintained its previous
average with 36.75 tons from 48,000 yards,
as against 38 from 111,000 in June. Ulu
Yam flopped with eight tons from 41,000
yards, as against 29 from 106,000 yards in
June. Thabawleik, after a longish spell in
the doldrums, recovered 11.5 tons from 28,000
yards, which reads worse than last month’s
27 tons from 53,000 yards.
Tin Bentong, with 9.4 tons from 44,200,
just about kept last month’s average, June
figures being 16.7 tons from 80,500 yards.
Pliin Soon, in spite of impending dissolution,
returned 15.5 tons from 11,500 yards, June’''
figures being 35.6 tons from 48,000 yards.
IJaad Yai, with 14.3 tons from 22,000 yards,
dropped on the previous figures of 23 tons
from 24,000 yards, but Huey Yot, Malay
Siamese’s other dredging proposition, weighed
in with 8.6 tons from 11,500 yards, fairly
up to the previous month’s recovery of 24
tons from 36,000 yards. '


IM£
SHI
an
■v ; ,
-
An early direct descendant of Captain John
/ Macartliur’s Spanish merinos, the earliest merinos
introduced into Australia.
■-
»* ■•r
f*
\
the year 1792 there were only 105 sheep in Australia.
To-day our Sheep population exceeds one hundred millions!
The ram shown in the top-left corner of this page is an
early direct descendant of Captain John Macarthtir s Spanish
Merinos, brought to Australia in 1 789.
The centre-right photograph is probably the only
existing record of “Emperor,” the French Rambouil-
let Ram purchased by the Peppins, of Wanganella,
1862, whose introduction founded the now-famous
Wanganella type.
Of this type, “David,” Boonoke’s famous Grand
Champion Ram, shown in the bottom-right corner, is
an excellent modern example.
The* series of photographs shows in a remarkable
manner the vast improvements in wool production
and bodily conformation which have been accom-
plished over the last 140 years. The early Austra-
lian Merinos cut an average of 31b. of wool for 12
months’ growth, while “David” (shown below) cut
41 -Jib. at last shearing.
These improvements have been brought about by a combination of two factors.
(a) Intensive culling and selective breeding. (b) Improved feeding.
“David,” in common with all the Grand Champion animals at the recent Sydney Sheep Show, has
been fed—
MEG CUT’S LINSEED SHEEP NUTS
throughout his entire life.
Correct breeding practices are recognised, and it is now necessary to
recognise the importance of correct feeding.
MEGGITT’S NUTS (which are 100% pure linseed) will
improve conditions in your flocks at all seasons of the year.
Feeding costs are so low —less than 2d. per sheep per week
and the extra returns from increased wool growth and better
market prices are so consistent that it
ALWAYS PAYS TO FEED “MEGGITT’S”
We welcome discussion on feeding problems.
m
C JZimitedi
HEAD OFFICE, 26 KING ST., SYDNEY
UJorUs: Parramatta. N SVL) • Melbourne. Victoria • Port Adelaide.S.A
tit
C Vie boy on the bjy \
guarantees quality*
DISTRIBUTORS
boy on the baa
guarantees quality
N.S.W.: Meggitt, Limited, 26
King Street, Sydney.
*
.MU
m-
y
m
ft
VICTORIA: New Zealand Loan and
Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
S. AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Ltd*, Currie Street, Adelaide.
W. AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Ltd., St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sub-distribu-
tors.
QUEENSLAND: Denhams, Ltd., Brisbane.
Denham Bros., Ltd., Rockhampton.
Cummins & Campbell, Ltd., Townsville.
Corser & Co., Maryborough & Cairns.


ALL COBBERS AT FIVE O’CLOCK.


I
I
*
Man’s full-size open-
face Sterling Silver
“Fx&R” Watch..
841-
An Honest, Truthful
Timekeeper Always—
The “Super Fx & R” Watch
These Watches offer extraordinary value.
The movements are on the lever principle.
They have brequet over-coil balance springs.
They are three-quarter-plate levers.
They are jewelled in 15 holes.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
They have jewelled ruby rollers.
They are specially made to stand rough riding
and knocking about.
They keep time to within seconds a month.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in
order (breakages excepted) for one year.
They are made in every style of case.
Fairfax and Roberts, Ltd.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
Such a reputation is not won overnight”
WWW*
I 11
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d ♦ ♦ . ♦ 20 for l/6
V'pyv-f
A A AAAA
J
T 0
Major Dravkin d? Co., London. Branch of The United
Kingdom Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Murrungurry” : “I’d been to town,” said
Gritter, “an’ on me way back, with Matilda
slung over me shoulder, I finds meself
blocked by a flood that’d come down the
IT’S A HARD WORLD, THIS.
TEACHER: “Billy! What’s the matter?”
BILLY: “Boo-hoo! I was dreamin’ I was having a birtday party and I’ve gone and
woke up.”
creek. There was a bloke choppin’ down a
leanin’ tree near the crossin’, an’ I sits down
on a small log, watchin’ him an’ wonderin'
how I’m goin’ to get home. The log I sat
on was long an’ thin, and up off the ground
a bit through lyin’ across another log. I
didn’t notice that it was so bloomin’ long
that tlie other end was in front of the leanin’
tree, or I might ’ave sit meself somewhere
else. When the tree hit it my end springs
up, an’ I drops, sittin’ down, on the other
side of the creek. ‘Thanks,’ I says to the
bloke with the axe; ’now sling me flamin’
swag over.’ Which he done, an’ I toddled
home.”
* * * *
’ /
“Wai-lioi” : Our Duke is a mission-station
boy recently arrived in Darwin from inland.
I offered him a bob one Saturday night to
have a look-see at the pictures, but he scorn-
fully refused, explaining, “Me go sleep, me
mission boy. To-morrow 7 more better, me put
him one fellah bob alonga plate alonga
church.” And he pushed off to his camp in
the near-by w 7 oodshed. Out of curiosity I
went to have a look at the sleeping beauty
a few hours later, but he wasn’t there. I
heard him sneaking in about 1 a.m., and
w 7 ent out to blow him up for having come the
double. “What for you gammon?” I said.
“You talk-talk me you go sleep and you go
walk-about. Where you been?” “Me go
alonga compound,” he re'plied. “Me bin
playem card. Me bin winnem six bob. Me
put two bob alonga plate now.”
**# * , •
“Soda”: “Drover” (B. 4/7/’2B) will be
pleased to hear that mules are very popular
in the N.T. Almost every plant that works
northward to the port uses them as pack
animals, the old chuck-waggon being useless.
However, against “Drover’s” theory that
mules can beat horses when it comes to
working on poor tucker, I have never seen
mules used on any overlanding plant on the
routes where feed can be bad. Nor are they
superior in stamina. Attempts to train mules
to round up cattle have failed utterly. An-
other point in favor of the horse is that in
dry country he can work a full day on a
single drink of water, and do it day after
day, but you’ll get nothing out of a mule on
less than two drinks.
* * * #
“Jimmy Possum”: If a sober man was
treed all night by wild dogs in a civilised
part of N.S.W., as “Gouger” (B. 20/6/’2B)
avers, it is safe to say that the dogs were
not dingoes. Once civilisation pushes into
a district the dingo soon ceases to be a full-
blooded native dog. The so-called dingoes in
many parts to-day are the progeny of dingoes
and domestic dogs. The Bananaland coast
in some localities is infested with spotted
dingoes, black dingoes with white rings round
the neck, brindle dingoes and an occasional
white dingo. There is more than one in-
stance of hostility to human beings having
been shown by these hybrids. But before a
full-blooded native dog would attack an adult
human it would have to be famished with
hunger or raving mad.
PRAYER AND MEDITATION.
MRS. McTAVISH: “Jock, mon, ’tis a long time ye’re takin’ over yer 'prayin'!”
McTAVISH: “Hold yer peace, woman. I’ll pray until th’ ithers go oot. The mon in
th’ next pew dropped thruppence.”
“Hay”: “Bilcon’s” sweet spud (B.
4/7/’2B) was quite a small affair. I saw
one grown by Jack Hyde, of Blackman’s
Point, Hastings River (N.S.W.), which
turned the scales at 451 b. and was excellent
eating.
* * * *
“Tempe” : Can anyone explain why stoves
smoke when the wind is in the south-west?
I used to consider it a vagary of my own
stove, but on inquiry I found that
all the district fireboxes refused to
draw with the wind in that quarter.
Since then I have moved about a
bit in N. S. Wales, and can testify
that from the Warrego to Kosciusko,
and from Werris Creek to the Soutli
Coast, stoves dislike a sou’-wester, and
behave in the same way when one is
blowing. Also that the actions of the
stoves infect the cooks with shortness
of temper and red and watery eyes.
I’m one of ’em, so I know 7.
“Wandi”: I was follow-
ing a dry sandy creek in
search of drink when I
met black brother, who,
besides his weapons, car-
ried a long hollow reed.
There was only soakage
water to be got, lie told
me, and after he had
taken tribute of tobacco
he showed me his method
of prospecting for it.
First he scraped away
the loose surface sand
with his hand, then drove
his spear down till he
struck water. Down the
tiny bore thus made he
put the hollow reed, and
through that drank his
fill while lying on the
sand. His method of
drawing a reserve supply
was to suck the water up
through the reed and then
squirt it into his billy,
until the vessel was full.
When Mrs. Binghi was
with him that job was given to her, whilst
Jacky sat in the shade.
* * * *
“Gouger”: Despite all the mummery- of
native medicine-men, they seem to possess
some undoubted power. I can recall the
case of a native woman, at death’s -door and
quite unconscious, who was given up by
white medical men. As an experiment,
the medicine-man was allowed to have his
chance. He squatted over the woman,
crooning dreamily, rubbing his hands. under
his armpits and then gently over the
cheeks and forehead of the woman. He
breathed up her nostrils and down her throat,
(Continued on page 25.)
and spoke gently into her ear. He per-
severed with these methods a considerable
time, at each try breathing harder and talk-
ing louder, until finally he shouted into
her ear; then, gently raising her eyelids,
breathed upon the eyeballs. Ten minutes
later the woman breathed deeply, and later
on became conscious. Ultimately, she re-
covered. I have seen quite a number of
somewhat similar cases, and, though I do
not know the secret, it seems to me that,
apart from the main ingredient, whatever it
may be, the treatment is a combination of
auto-suggestion and hypnotism, in some form
familar to the • queer native mind, but ap-
parently incomprehensible to whites.
*** * •
“Kell B.”: The times recorded at the-
shearing competitions at Sydney Sheep Show
this year don’t give any corroboration to
Abo.-ites who write about 300 and over
of rough sheep being shorn in a day. The
19 men engaged in the competition were
all experts, but some of them who survived
till the finals shore at a rate of less than 100
in eight hours. The sheep were a long way
better than average wethers, and could not
be termed rough.
* * * *
“Lagani-Namo” : “Momo Keni.” (B.
8/2/’2B) disagrees with me as to the
superior merit of Gaili (Papua) tattooing
and contends that the Maoris). Japanese
and the Mekeo women of the upper Anga-
bunga (Papua) display better artistry. As
to the Maoris and the Japanese, it’s a
matter of opinion, but the Mekeo folk do not
tattoo and never have tattooed themselves.
Furthermore the statement that tattooing
“enables the initiate to trace exactly the
genealogical tree of the wearer,” is utter
nonsense. No tattooing in the South Seas
convys such information further back than
a generation.
* * *
“Mullarula” :* I have never been able to
understand why some Australian timbers
which will last for years if not in contact
with the ground will rot away in no time
if allowed to touch earth. I have seen
mallee rails as hard as flint after 20 years’
service, and yet if the same timber is used
for posts it will rot off level with the ground
in 12 months. River oak, used in the form
of a bullock yoke, will outlive the bullock
that wears it in spite of all the work that
can be given it, but the rest of the trunk
from which it was cut will rot away in a
few years if left on the ground. Most,
though not all, of the varieties of gum and
box have the same contradictory character-
istics, and so have all the oaks, except
belar, and more than half the acacias.
Belar, by the way, has one characteristic
which is all its own. If used for posts it
will last twice as long in unfamiliar soil as
in the class of soil in which it grew.
RIDING ROUND THE SWEEP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hiding in the curly duwu, still astride at
noon,
Sometimes even, wearied, done, home by light
of moon,
Saddlesore and sick of heart, 'craving just
for sleep,
Fagging on the lonely range riding round the
sheep.
Pacing on a wintry day o’er a tussock flat,
Thouglitful-like and quick of eye, sorting this
from that,
Pausing here and stopping there till the
shadows creep—
In the days of dark July, riding round the
sheep.
Climbing up a razorback in the drizzling rain,
Seeing something queer below and riding
down again;
Stud or scrubber much the same —enough to
make you weep
Seeing all tlfe tilings one sees riding round
the sheep!
Riding in the heat of noon when the day
is fair,
With a hum of noisy life on the tainted air,
Tying reins to stirrup-bar, feeling rather
cheap—
Someone’s been before you, lad, riding
round the sheep.
Riding in the far-off hills up against the.
sky,'
Where the miles of rooting tell of strong
snouts navvying nigh—
Not a human soul in sight; thoughts are
long and deep
Face to face with death and life riding
round the sheep.
MAORILAND.
MARY WALKER.


Custom Quality at Moderate Cost
Dodge Brothers Senior is designed to meet
the exacting demands of those who appre-
ciate fine things.
It is built in a separate plant, specially equip-
ped, for Senior production, at a cost of
just on one million pounds.
Materials used in the Senior are the best that
Dodge Brothers vast purchasing resources
can command.
And they are wrought to precision standards
usually found only in custom manufacture.
Harden & Johnston, Limited, Sydney .
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane — Townsville.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth •
Dodge* Brothers
MOTOR CARS
F. 9. 349


<3
as
sfe
e><£
fas
Ardath
Tobacco
Co., Ltd.,
London.
£5OO
in Cash Prizes
20 for 1/6
§Tf)TE fiiPRjeSS
38
CIGARETTES
777
“State Expressettes” is a fascinating Competition with
handsome prizes for the winners. See daily papers for
full particulars of this interesting Competition. Closing
date, September 8.
Send your entries without delay.
£5OO
in Cash Prizes
MCSmM
mm
Nia
55047^
Ardath
Tobacco
Co., Ltd.,
London.
“To Babarantiko”: Are “Porosus” and
“B-Gar” (B. 27/6/’2B) serious in asserting
that crocodiles are so plenteous and easily
trapped in the North that a lucrative export
trade in their hides is possible? If so, the
reptiles have increased remarkably on the
N.Q. littoral and in the estuaries these last
half-dozen years. In some Northern Terri-
tory tidal rivers they are quite plentiful—
at times. But crocs, are slow growers and
systematic killing would soon exterminate
them. Conditions in many places are suit-
able for alligator hatcheries and farms, but
the creatures would eat their heads off before
growing sufficient hide for the market.
* * * *
“Limpy”: The traveller in out-back
Queensland is struck by the variety of gates
encountered. They are of all kinds and
sizes, from the neat, white-painted, all-steel
gate to the old-fashioned sliprails. Worst
of all is the stick-and-wire gate, which is
merely a number of wires, spaced apart
by stakes or droppers, and attached at
each end to a stake, over which the catch,
ANOTHER DARK PLOT.
GRIGGS: “Is that right you’re going to vote for Proherbition?”
TRIGGS: “Too right I am.”
GRIGGS: “Struth! What for?”
TRIGGS: “To put the wind up the cows! And if every other working man does the
same, we’ll get our beer at ’arf the blinkin’ price.”
usually a piece of fencing-wire, is slipped.
Oddly enough, Victorian settlers refer to
these as “Queensland gates,” while the
Bananalanders blame the Victorians for
introducing them. Another contraption is
the revolving sliprail, which is a set of
rails suspended from a larger rail about
double the length of the others, carried out
over the gatepost and balanced by a weight
at the other end. The hinge is formed by
SAVED!
“C-c-could I have an appointment with the d-d-dentist to-day?”
“No hope.”
“Oh, thank you so much.”
driving an iron peg through the main rail
into the top of the gate-post, the rails thus
swinging in the same manner as the ordi-
nary single gate. In these days of motor
traffic the habit of coating gates with tar
is going out of fashion, as black does not
show up at night. If a motorist crashes
into a gate it may cost Cocky more for re-
pairs than for a good coat of white paint.
An idea which is gaining favor is that of
attaching the side of a petrol-tin to the
middle of the gate. The bright surface re-
flects the light of the car’s headlights, and
in open country can be seen half a mile
away.
“Emmak”: For a couple of weeks I
watched the activities of a pair of double-
bars in a shrub near our verandah. The
babies were a week old when I noticed, a
gathering of relations round the nest and in-
vestigated. Mamma was dead. I removed
the poor little thing and saw three naked
scraps left in the nest. An hour later they
were squeaking the squeak of a filling tummy.
Every form of relation had adopted the
orphans ; one day five went in at the same
time.
“Far North’’: While bound from Cook-
town to Thursday Island in a 15-ton ketch
we ran into a number of waterspouts, one
coming rather near. I orderted all the
canvas to be taken in and hatches battened
down. My leading hand, a half-caste abo.,
could not be found in the moment of ex-
citement; later on, when waiting to see
where the waterspout was going, I noticed
him at the top of the mast pointing a
knife out to sea. He explained afterwards
that he went up the mast to save the ship.
His idea was that pointing the knife away
from the ship had caused the spout to pass.
Any of the Council heard of this supersti-
tion ?
“ J.A.” : The abo. system of counting was
cumbrous but understandable enough. The
Wellington Valley (N.S.W.) blacks counted
tins way: Nunboi, one; bulla, two; bulla-
nunboi, three; bulla-jer, four; bulla-jer-nun-
boi, five ; bulla-jer-bulla, six; bulla-jer-bulla-
nunboi, seven; bulla-jer-bulla-jer, eight. But
after that, as there weren’t any more words,
the nunbois and bullas and jers began to get
a bit monotonous.
* :!: * *
“Gouger”: Darwin would have found a
lot to support his theories in the far north
of this continent. Wallabies inhabiting those
peculiar mountains which are bare, piled-up
rocks develop characteristics widely different
from those which dwell among wooded hills,
and around the edges- of the big lagoons and
reeds of the tropical swamps there lives an
elusive wallaby quite, distinct from his cousin
of the hillocky plains. In Westralia, on
the Moore River* is a pretty silver-haired fel-
low, called by the natives nar-nine, that runs
about under the dense scrub on flats and
swamp-edges. Birds also pick on a particu-
lar area of country, and develop in the course
of time a new variety. A striking instance
of adaptation to environment is the striped
’possum, which lives only in the sandhills
fronting 100 miles of the east coast of Cape
York Peninsula.
* * * *
“Nota Bene”: Isn’t the so-called intelli-
gence of the horse merely a matter of memory
and habit? It is a fairly easy thing to
break a horse in and train him to work; but
if anything unusual happens, such as the
harness breaking, he will lose his head. I
once bought a horse from a man who made
a practice of pulling up regularly at a way-
side inn. Unless he was in double harness, I
was, for a long time, unable to get the
animal past that place without a bit of an
argument.
* * * *
“Rangitira”: The healing properties of the
Maoriland manuka bush are well known to
the Urewera natives, a tribe which has never
had much faith in pakeha medical science.
At Ruatoki (Bay of Plenty) some years ago,
I came across a young Maori who, while
reaping cocksfoot with a sickle, had nearly
cut the calf of his leg away. An old woman
took charge. Flax was used to form a
tourniquet. Some young manuka shoots
were then boiled, mashed into a poultice,
and clapped on the wound, which was tightly
bound with a strip from the only clean shirt
available. Two or three days later, the
bandage was off, and the patient was walking
about.
* * * *
“G.M.8.”: One of the most out-of-the-
way homes in Victoria is the Woonangabba
station homestead, built over 50 years ago
in the ranges of North Gippsland. For a
long while all supplies that could not be
grown on the station had to be carried on
packhorses from Maffra, a hundred miles
away. Later a track was cut from Myrtle-
ford, and this reduced the haulage distance
to 50 miles. Even to-day there is no vehicu-
lar road within 20 miles of the homestead.
* * * *
“L-N.”: What really is the best diving
record made by Torres' Strait, Papuan or
Binghi natives? Here’s a nomination to
start off with. British New Guinea Treas-
ury vouchers show that the Administrator
paid £5O to Leka-kapa, a woman of Hula,
for having located the Government launch
Ruby, sunk in 12 fathoms of water, and for
having then descended with an anchor and
made two grapplings fast, which enabled the
launch to be raised. Personally, I’ve never
seen a native get deeper than 10 fathoms.
TO MY BROTHER IN TOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If you are feeling out of sorts, and yearn to
go a-wandering, .
Just roll your blankets swag-wise and
come and tramp with me.
The track we’ll take leads westerly, where
many flocks are pasturing.
And there’ll be plains and saltbush as far
as we can see.
We’ll take no useless camping kit, our loads
must be the easiest —
A ’possum rug or blanket, rolled tight and
folded neat;
A knife and fork and billycan, and bags to
keep the tucker in ;
A sugar-bag for groceries and calico for
meat.
We’ll camp where trees are sheltering, good
wood and water plentiful,
Where big logs may lie smouldering and
burn right through the night;
You’ll find you have an appetite, so damper
and sweet johnny-cakes
I’ll bake you in the ashes, and serve them
crisp and light.
I’ll take you roitnd the shearing sheds where
everything is different,
For ways and means have altered since
you were there before;
’Twill waken up old memories of
cooks and rouseabouts,
Of twelve-and-six a hundred in the days
our fathers shore.
We’ll see the white wool glistening, the
newly-shorn sheep quivering .
And huddled in the corners, if the wind is
blowing cold;
And when, they get their liberty, and they
are eating hastily,
We’ll smell the yolk and tar-brand as in
the days of old.
The old ewes will be worrying while wayward
lambs are frolicking.
And bleating as they nibble while others
gambol by,
The rams may stand defying us, our right
of progress challenging,
Their eyes the distance measuring, their
warlike horns flung high.
We may meet cattle travelling, and, if they’re
thirsty, bellowing,
From somewhere out in Queensland beyond
the Warrcgo.
They take their hardships tranquilly,
dragging onward steadily,
Loose-flanked and rugged-coated, their lean
heads hanging low.
The leaders will be Herefords, long-legged
and good travellers
That cover daily stages with free and easy
stride;
And at the rear old milking cows, the cripples
and the nondescripts,
And here and there an Alderney, smooth-
skinned and placid-eyed.
And if the drover’s thereabouts he’ll set his
horse a-cantering;
Loose-limbed he’ll sit astraddle, yet easy
in his seat.
When he has finished questioning of cattle-
camps and distances,
If it is close to dinner-time he’ll bid us
stay and eat.
Then we will meet his cattlemen, big-hearted,
keen and generous,
Who know the Never Never and the bush
from sea to sea.
Their greetings will be jovial and friendly
and courteous,
And you’ll enjoy full measure of hos-
pitality.
Then when you tire of journeying, or legs
and feet are wearying
With tramping over rough tracks that led
by hill and plain,
You’ll cast the swag you’re carrying and take
the road that’s easterly,
And you’ll go to the city, but I’ll turn
back again.
When I’m on the horizon, wave high your
hat or handkerchief
(It sometimes means “Good riddance,” and
it sometimes means “Good-bye”).
If you’re not late or hurrying, or nightfall is
not shadowing,
Just turn and watch, me vanishing against
the western sky.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


Our Service Department
This page ia set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you Avaut anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
•Service Department.
. . The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
Wants.
By returned soldier (32), sober, book-keep-
ing and store experience, position on station,
Q. preferred, but would go anywhere.—s6ll.
By returned soldier (W. 0., A.1.F.), em-
ployment sewing bags in Q’land wheatficldn.
Go anywhere, day or contract. —5588.
By middle-aged couple, position as care-
takers of gentleman’s property, suburban, or
country (N.S.W.). Wife efficient house-
keeper ; husband good knowledge, of garden-
ing, stock and small farm work. Kefs. —5615.
By young man (23), G.P.S. education,
first-class athlete, executive ability, position
in Sydney, salesman, draughtsman or clerk.
—5618.
By man (30), smart, abstainer, work any
capacity; used benchwork, grinding, filing,
etc., all-round handy man with tools, drive
car. —5623.
By youth, employment Sydney garage as
general hand or assistant to engineer.—5625.
By two Sydney men, experienced burning
out rabbit warrens and station fumigating,
work in N.5.W.—5626.
By experienced orchardist, graduate Bath-
urst Experiment Farm, employment on or
management of deciduous orchard, N.S.W.
Kefs.—s62B.
By Englishman (20), pen friends among
Bulletin readers. —5612.
First-class rifleshot (36) wants to get
in touch with N.S.W. station owners wanting
wild dogs, dingoes, eagles, etc., destroyed.
Will accept bonus instead of wages.—ss62.
By man (34), speaks
FYencli and German; position anywhere,
overseer or manager station; accustomed
tropics and control of white or colored labor;
understands accounts and storekeeping;
licensed motor driver.—ss43.
By bricklayer, plasterer and concreter,
work in Sydney.—ss2l.
By diver and ox-navy rigger, seven years’
experience, similar jobs. Go anywhere,
Islands preferred.—sslB.
By all-round produce classer, used to wool
and skins, job in N.S.W. —5517.
By experienced handy man, Sydney, car-
pentering, bricklaying, painting, concreting,
fencing, garage building, etc. —5516.
Englishman, returning to England by
Orsova in October, would undertake care and
see to destination one or more boys in
return for passage. Refs.—ss99.
By trained nurse, travel position. Good
with children and infants. —5528.
Young lady (ex-Uni. student) wishes to
correspond with persons interested in litera-
ture, psychology and art. (To Miss D. Gould,
P. 0., Samarai, Papua.)
To hear from country newspaper requir-
ing original Sunday articles.—ss33.
To sell Rusden's “Histories of Australia
and N.Z.,” second editions, each three vols.
—5531.
To buy air mail postage stamps, old or
new. (To Rex Allison, Flinders Mival
Depot, Westernport, Vic.)
To let, furnished five-roomed cottage,
Haberfield, Sydney. Second tram section,
£2 10s. per week.—ss47.
To buy original photographs of osmiridium
mining industry and rabbit trapping. (To
O. Johnson, care Box 23, Pahiatua, N.Z.)
Words of verse entitled “Where Is Mum?"
(To Robert Ross, Revell-st., Hokitika, M.L.)
Words and music of negro spiritual “Go
Down, Moses.”—ssso.
To communicate with persons who have
resided in Papeete or Rarotonga. (To A. 11.
Langford, Samarai, Papua.)
Address of medicated jubemaker formerly
with Federal Confectionery Co., Hobart. —
5603.
Whereabouts of Alfred Ernest Dawes, who
left Neerim district (Vic.) for Q’land about
1900 with man named Merchant. Entitled to
legacy. Sister inquiring.—5596.
Lady (28) wishes to correspond with per-
sons interested in good music, tennis, litera-
ture, etc. —5585.
To exchange 100 cloth-bound novels for
the same number in good condition. (To
S. E. Clark, Bulga, Singleton, N.S.W.)
To sell miner’s right, residential area No.
245, Warburton (Vic.), 132 ft. by 300 ft.,
near railway.—s6o2.
To sell Windsor banjo and case, almost
new; and quantity of music. (To W. R.
Petersen, Juliette-street, South Brisbane, Q.)
To sell T. W. 11. Crosland’s attack on
Wilde, “The First Stone”; rare, new con-
dition, 105.—5610.
To sell for £5O, 100 paid-up £1 shares in
Palmer River Gold Co.. N.L. —5566.
Lost from paddock Moss Vale, 23/11/’27,
cream pony, branded C near shoulder;
young girl’s pet. Reward. —5631.
To sell Remington No. 10 typewriter, very
little used, £l4 10s. (To Miss ,7. Bales, Mor-
peth, N.S.W.)
To exchange large collection modern novels,
perfect condition, for “Australian Encyclo-
paedia.”—s62l.
Information Sought.
(1) Is the seed of broom millet of any
value? (2) How can it be stored? —5519.
(1) Ground into meal, it makes a food for
poultry or soaked in skim milk it can be fed
to pigs. It has been found a good substitute
for maize for farm horses. (2) The seed
should be hackled clean, taking every advant-
age of wind winnowing to get rid of the
dust and dirt during the process. Spread-
ing out in thin layers on tarpaulins in the
sun or kiln drying in a loft is then desirable,
and treatment with carbon bisulphide, to get
rid of weevils and moths, is advisable. When
stored, the seed must be well ventilated. Wire
fly-screens on the floor of the barn and distri-
buted through the heap are the best means
of ventilating.
How own I make five gallons of English
ale? —5500.
Take 4oz. hops, 71b. treacle, loz. whole
ginger and sgal. water. Mix and boil for
two hours. Remove to a wooden tub and
when slightly cooled, add one cup of brewers’
yeast and stir well. 'et stand for 1G hours.
Pour into a barrel, and let stand for two
days with the bung out and the barrel
slightly canted. Then bung tightly and
leave for a w(sek.
(1) Is it possible to preserve oysters in
bottles so that they will keep for a month or
longer? (2) What is agar-agar? (3) Where
is it found? (4) What is its use? (5) What
is the commercial value? (G) Where is
there a market? —5440.
(1) No. They can’t be kept much over
24 hours. (2) It is the commercial name
applied to the dried, partially bleached gela-
tinous extract of certain species of red
algae ( Florideae ). (3) Japan, China, Malay-
sia, Ceylon and neighboring coasts, and|
recently in California. (4) It is one of
the favorite seaweed foods of the Orient.
Its chief uses in Europe and America are for
the preparation of bacteriological media, and
as a laxative. (5) About ss. per lb. (6)
There is a market in most countries, but
the demand is small except in the Orient.
Which is correct: A hotel or an hotel;
a hospital or an hospital; what is the rule
on the matter? —55G1.
According to modern practice “a hotel” is
correct, the “h” being no longer regarded as
silent. In the case of hospital “a” was
always correct. Two of the few h-beginning
words that still call for the prefix “an” are
“hour” and “heir.” The rule is to use an
“an” when the following word opens with
a vowel sound other than a broad “u.”
What is the cost of erecting a silo to hold
150,000 bushels of wheat? —5432.
Those constructed by the N.S.W. Dept,
of Agriculture at country stations cost
£17,000 to £19,000 with full equipment.
(1) What penalty would a man incur who
refused to answer a police officer’s questions
concerning a crime of which he had know-
ledge, but who annotinced his willingness to
give evidence in court under oath? (2)
Could a barrister practising in Sydney appear
in any court or before a legal inquiry in
Queensland? —5465.
(1) None. (2) Not unless he had been
admitted to the Bar of that State.
Can you give me the names of the Gilbert
and Sullivan operas , and the year and place
of first production?— sl27.
“Thespis,” Gaiety, 1871; “Trial by Jury,”
Royalty, 1875; “.The Sorcerer,” 1877;
“11.M.5. Pinafore,” 1878; “Pirates of Pen-
zance,” 1880; and “Patience,” 1881, all at
the Opera Comique; “lolanthe,” 1882 ;
“Princess Ida,” 1884 ; “The Mikado,” 1885 ;
“Ruddigore,” 1887; “The Yeomen of the
Guard,” 1888; “The Gondoliers,” 1889;
“Utopia,” 1893, and “The Grand Duke,”
1896, all at the Savoy. All in London.
What soil is most suitable for walnut-
growing in N.5.W.?— 5520.
A deep, well-drained soil. Deep river
loams or loams made up of accumulated
washings of soil from higher land are speci-
ally suitable There must be a sufficiency
of moisture.
(1) Can art be studied at night in Syd-
ney? If so, where and at what fees? (2)
Ilow did the leading Australian artists study
to reach their present position? (3) Are
there many opportunities of employment for
capable artists? (4) Arc their salaries
good? (5) How long should it take to com-
plete a course? (6) Would a correspondence
course enable one to reach a high status ?—
5376.
(1) Sydney Art School, 77A Q. V. B’ld’g,
George-street; £1 10s. per term for three
nights per week. Royal Art Society, 76
Pitt-street; antique classes, four nights per
week, £1 10s. per term, two nights 155.; life
classes, four nights per week, £1 Is. per term.
East Sydney Tech. Coll., Darlinghurst, three
or four evenings per week, £1 per term. (2)
By attending art schools and continuing to
study after their course had finished. (3)
Only a limited number; the profession is
overcrowded at present. (4) Those in regular
employment, generally speaking, are paid
very well. (5) Depends entirely on ability
of student. Three years at least. (6)
Wouldn’t carry you very far.
Is it necessary for duty stamps to be
placed on receipts for directors ’ fees in
N.5.W.?— 5549.
No. The Stamp Duties xVct makes it clear
that such payments arc regarded as wages.
A puts his brand on three horses belonging
to />. It threatens A with exposure unless
A gives him £lOO to keep quiet. Is this black-
mail?—ss7s.
Yes, and if A gave B the money he would
be compounding a felony.
(1) Is there a track a car can follow be-
tween Cairns and Cooktown or further tip
the Peninsula? (2) Could a car ’ skirt the
coast around the Gulf to Darwin, or would
it have to keep inland? (3) Arc the natives
of Arnheim’s Land dangerous? (4) Ts it
possible to explore Arnhcim’s Land by motor?
(5) In what parts of Australia are abos.
most numerous and primitive? (6) To take
up land in Central Australia or N.T. , to
whom and where must I apply? (7) What
is the distance between Melville Island and
the mainland? (8) Are police recruited in
Australia for service in New Guinea or the
Islands? (9) On what dates are recruits
examined for the Queensland police, and arc
there vacancies at presentf (10) Where
could 1 sell skins of wallabies, ’roos, etc.,
taken in N.T.t— 5579.
(1) Yes, but it is a tough job to get a car
through. (2) No, you have to' strike inland.
The trip is a dangerous one, and should
only be attempted during a good season and
. by an expert bushman. (3) Yes. (4) Impos-
sible to cover it thoroughly. (5) Most num-
erous in the north and most primitive in the
centre. (6) Home and Territories Dept.,
Sydney. (7) 16 miles. (8) Occasionally.
Apply Home and Territories Dept., Mel-
bourne. (9) Police Dept., Brisbane, will
supply details on request. (10) You cannot
sell them.
(1) What is the deepest mine in the
world? (2) Is it gold or coal? —5419.
(1) The Village Deep, Baud, S. Africa.
7264 feet. (2) Gold.
Can you tell me how to get potatoes well
sprouted for planting at the end of July'
Here ( Thangool, Q.) there is difficulty in
getting them sprouted by that time, especi-
ally when using local-grown seed potatoes of
the February crop? —s4ol.
The surest way is to use southern-grown
seed showing signs of sprouting. Stored
seed potatoes may be encouraged to sprout by
spreading them out in a thin layer in a well-
lighted barn for about a month. If the eyes
are not then budding as quickly as desired
bag the potatoes for about a week before
planting.
What is the right spelling of the name of
the tree — gidyea , gidgea, gidya or gidgee? —
5426.
Webster’s Dictionary spells it “gidya,”
the Australian Encyclopaedia “gidgee,” Baker
in his “Hardwoods of Australia” “gidgea.”
Like most abo. words it has been recorded
by various authorities as pronounced to
them by abos., and abo. tongues differ.
Can you recommend a wireless circuit
suitable for loud-speaker reception with an
indoor aerial? I am, situated at about 400
miles from a capital city, —s4o7.
If cost is a consideration, advise you to
rig up a small outdoor aerial employing a
total length of 50 feet of wire. A description
of a five-valve receiver suitable for reception
on an indoor aerial was published in Aus-
tralian Radio for April 16 last. A four-
valve receiver, cheaper and easier to con-
struct, is described in the same journal
November 15, 1927. Wireless Newspapers,
Ltd., Williamson House, 51 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney, are publishers.
(1) What is the most valuable stamp in
the world, and its price? (2) Most valuable
Australian stamp and its price? (3) Where
are big stamp t sales held? (4) What is the
largest collection in the world? (5) Value of
1841 English stamp? —s442.
(1) British Guiana 1 cent, 1856, black on
magenta. About £7OOO. (2) West Australia,
1854, 4d. blue with inverted centre. About
£BOO. (3) London and New York. (4)
Nobody knows. (5) Less than a penny.
Can you account for the importance in
literature of Bacon's essays? —s4sl.
In a few words, his logical, introspective,
extremely incredulous mind was one of the
great formative influences upon English
thought in the Elizabethan period.
What are the conditions of the Archibald
Prize? (2) What is the closing date this
year? (3) Where are full particulars ob-
tainable? —5446.
(1) The paintings must be the work of
an Australian resident, and must be painted
during the 12 months preceding the closing
date. The portrait, which should be “pre-
ferentially of some man or woman distin-
guished in art, letters, science or politics/’
can be of any size and executed in any
medium. So far as practicable they should
be painted from life. Miniatures' are ad-
missible. A statutory declaration must be
made. (2) December 31. 1928. (3) Direc-
tor, National Art Gallery, Sydney.
(1) I have located an outcrop of silver-
lead. It is in small quartz veins between
layers of diorite, about two feet unde. As it
is only a surface show, would it be likely to
improve at depth, and if so, at about what
depth? (2) Would a width of two feet of
silver-lead of good quality be payable?— s3B9.
(1) Can’t say without a geological exami-
nation. (2) All depends upon the silver-
le"rl content, and cost "f transport to a
customs smelter, say, at Port Pirie, S.A.
(1) Can a boy aged 154 years enter the
NjS.W. railway employ as junior clerk with-
out receiving an intermediate certificate?
(2) Could he start as junior clerk in any of
the trades departments? —s3ss.
(1) Yes, if he can pass the departmental
entrance examination in arithmetic and dic-
tation, but preference is given to those with
intermediate certificates. (2) Apply to the
Staff Board, Central Station, Sydney, for a
position, and you will be given details of
requirements.
(1) Who founded the business of Cobb and
Co. (2)'Arc there any Cobb coaches running
now? (3) Where can I get a good history
of the business? —6s27.
(1) Freeman Cobb, John Murray Peck,
James Swautou and John Lamber, in Victoria
in 1853, but James Rutherford, who acquired
an interest at the end of the ’fifties, was the
man who built the business up. (2) No, the
last coach was taken off the Yeulba-Surat
(Q.) run in 1924. (3). See W. Lee’s “Cobb
and Co., Ltd.,” article in “Australian Ency-
clopaedia,” and Henry Lawson’s “The Lights
of Cobb and Co.”
(1) Who introduced camels into Aus-
tralia? (2) What is the estimated number
to-day? (3) Where and for ivliat purpose
are they used? (4) Are there any Aus-
tralian camel drivers? —5624.
(1) Sir 11. Barkly, then Gov. of Vic., who
imported camels for the Burke and Wills
expedition of 1861. (2) About 12.000. (3)
In the interior of W.A., S.A.. N.S.W. and
Q’land, especially in the first two. They are
employed by the survey and water conser-
vation departments, also as mail carriers,
and for the transport of supplies to mines
and stations still not reachable by motor
Riding camels are sometimes used by police
and station managers. (4) Yes. The indus-
try has passed into the hands of Australians,
who handled camels in Egypt and Palestine.
Information Supplied.
5456.—T0 make mango chutney, take 31b.
mangoes (just beginning to ripen), 441 b.
sugar, three pints best vinegar, 41b. sultanas,
lib. dates, loz. garlic, loz. chillies,, 41b.
salt, 41b. green ginger. Peel and slice the
mangoes, put them in an enamel dish,
sprinkle with the salt and let stand over-
night. In the morning, boil the vinegar, sul-
tanas, garlic, chillies (chopped), ginger and
dates together for 20 minutes. Add the sugar
and boil 15 minutes. Add the mangoes and
boil 20 minutes or until it seems cooked.
Bottle when half cold and cork well. —
“G.M.S.”
Does Anybody Know?
The best method of poisoning rabbits?—
5531.
llow to remove the tar and the odor from
an ice-chest which has been coated with
tar?—s47B.
Brief Answers.
8.F.H.: They are slipping; latest, 19s.
Dividends have been shrinking for some years past.
. ...D.1.C.: Clean the floor thoroughly with benzine,
removing all wax, then wash with soap and water
slightly warm. After it is thoroughly dry, give it
one or two coats of floor varnish and two coats of
paste wax. After this continue as usual with liquid
wax... .P.C.D,: Any profit made on the sale of a
business purchased subsequent to June 30, 1923,
would be subject to State tax. Full particulars, of
cost and selling prices, dates of purchase and sale
and any expenses of sale should be included in tax
return. .. .1f.0.1t.: “Australian Sheep and Wool” by
Hawkesworth, 255. 9d. posted; “Sheep, Farm and
Station Management,” by Pearse, 21s. 6d. posted;
“The Sheep and Wool Industry of Australasia,” by
Smith, 9s. 4d. posted; “Classing the Clip,” by
Cowley, 15s. 4d. posted; Angus and Robertson....
W.J.M.C.: (1) The term is used to differentiate
between steel mass-production bodies and the alu-
minium panel bodies that are fitted at a higher cost.
(2) Information not available through the Sydney
agents. .. .W.A.C.: Write to the N.Z. Refrigerating
Co., Christchurch W.G.L.: The Royal Bonn
Factory was established in 1755. Without inspection
it would be impossible to state the vase’s age....
J'.S.G.: Any of these sheep-dip agents might be
interested: Australasian Sheep Dip Co., Ltd., 16
Bridge-street; Federal Pastoral Shearing Co., Gros-
venor-street; F. S. Greer, 39 King-street; Eureka
Sheep Fly Oil Co., Rosemont-stveet, Punchbowl;
William Cooper and Nephews, 4 O’Connell-street—
all of Sydney... .Winnipeg': Day cookery classes in
Sydney are conducted at the Technical College,
Harris-street; by the Australian Gaslight Co., Hay-
market, three afternoons a week; and by Miss A.
Gibbs, 179 Elizabeth-street. .G.W.P.: Sorry, a poor
lot. Inclined to buy a few more of No. 1 and No. 3.
But they’re speculative. .. .E.F.1.: In your case an
annuity is the best thing. .. .C.D.L.: It is a very
fair gamble, but certainly not a safe, sound invest-
ment... .P.A.: There is no simple method of testing
honey. The fact that it remained liquid for a
period does not denote that the sample is not pure.
Some varieties of honey remain liquid for a year or
more.... J.G.: A letter addressed care of The Bul-
letin will find him W.H.M.If.: The N.S.W.
Marriage Act does not provide for the issue of
marriage licenses. Persons desiring to be married
should consult a minister of religion of the denomi-
nation to which they belong R.H.E.: (1) Unless
you are being maintained in an institution at the
public expense your pension is payable £8 .per fort-
night while you are classed as totally and permanently
incapacitated. (2) Your case can lie reveiwed by the
Medical Board at any time. (3) Your wife is entitled to
the benefits of the Family Endowment Act....
R.G.D.: “Irrigation Practice and Engineering,” by
Etcheverry (Vol. II.) 11.J.G.: The fact that you
are not naturalised doesn’t affect your rights under
industrial law V.S.: You have a year before you
need make a final decision. Think it well over in
the meantime C.H.: The value of the home and
the furniture therein does not affect the pension
payable provided pensioners or applicants for pension
reside there permanently.... Mrs. D.: Such pimples
should be scrubbed energetically with hot water and
soap twice a day at least. Use no cosmetics. To
remove blackheads, sterilise a needle by putting it
through a flame, prick the pimple, put iodine on it
and squeeze out matter. Application of Lassar’s
Paste would be helpful... .E.P.: Charles E. Taylor,
Scott’s Buildings, 434 Collins-street, Melbourne. It
will cost 5s Earle: “List of N.S.W. Abo. Place-
names and Their Meanings,” Tost and Rohu, Martin?
place, Sydney (6d.), will suit your purpose....
8.8. C.: It appears to be a Chinese painting of an
historical episode, and is probably of small value,
as it is not of great antiquity... .P.M.R.: Offer it
to the Brisbane Museum, and if they don’t want it
advertise it for sale. Can’t advise you as to value.
... .Ibex: No ; your consent is essential... .A.H.C.:
No details available. But it by no means follows
that the process would be applicable generally....
Timi: May be all right. The head of the concern
has never made a success of his ventures hitherto.
M.L.F.: (1) Some years ago over 250,000
copies had been sold. Ward, Lock and Co., Mel-
bourne, may be able to supply the exact figure. (2)
Making a search. (3) Dodd, Mead and Co., 443
Fourth-avenue; Brentano’s, Fifth-avenue and 27th-
street; Harper and Brothers, 49 East 33rd-street;
Frederick A. Stokes, 443 Fourth-avenue—all *of
New Tork. .. . J.H.: The words are the beginning of
the 59th stanza of “Horatius,” one of Macaulay’s
“Lays of Ancient Rome,” procurable in a cheap
edition from any bookseller. .. .J.A.L.: Ask the lad
to send some original work to the Art Editor
W.J.11.: Get in touch with U. W. Carpenter, Mel-
rose, 430 Mowbray-road, Chatswood. . . .A.McC.:
Sample of kaolin has brown streaks and when fired
is a pinkish-brown, but is highly refractory. Com-
mercial value of such clays is 10s. to 30s. per ton
at the mine R.8.M.E.: Multiply together the
length, the breadth and the thickness in inches. If
the board be tapered add the breadth of the two
ends together, divide by two, and multiply product
together with length and thickness E.J.G.: .Afraid
there isn’t much hope of payment if the magazine
is defunct.... J.W.: A cord of timber contains 128
cub. ft., and can be any length, breadth or depth.
Cubic contents are calculated by multiplying length
by breadth and depth together. The weight of a
cord varies according to the sort of timber—from a
couple of tons to five or more J.J.: Symptoms
point to malignant liver trouble. Medical treatment
was of little use, as a surgeon was required.. .G.V.H.:
A matter of taste. The double-action instrument is
preferred by many, on account of ease of operation.
G.Y.: “Rabbit Raising,” by Butterfield and
Lloyd, published by the Uni. of California
(Many others mailed.)


asdf
if
%:u
Im
■;-K
■
« ■ ■■■ ■
FACTORY, BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO., LTD., • FOOTSCRAY.
CONSTRUCTED FOR . . Barnet Glass Rubber Co., Ltd
ARCHITECT J. Plottel, Esq., A.R.V.I.A,
CONTRACTORS .... Messrs. Geo. Prentice, Pty., Ltd.
Floors Reinforced with B.R.C. Fabric and Foundations with B.R.C. Remformements.
Concrete Reinforcements
B.R.C. Reinforcements are suitable for
all types of structures—for the heavy
loads of warehouses and machinery
floors and for the light loads of dwelling-
houses and offices. For all structures
they provide the same good features—
ease of fixing, accuracy of spacing and
greatest safety.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty., Ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Phone: Cent. 8861. Works: Ballarat Road, Sunshine, Victoria.
(isnuon
jIuIUUJJJJJ-U
i ouqoj
me
Sole Distributing Agents:
VICTORIA Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES . . J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair (Brisbane), Ltd.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Company (Aust.), Ltd., Hobart
NEW ZEALAND A C. Gillies & Laird, Ltd., Wellington.
—‘l
i uii
mimir
ini
ouqoj
6
i
€
«
sdf


PEAPES
—for men AND their sons.
Situated in one of the busiest
men’s quarters of Sydney, Peapes’
is exactly opposite Hunter Street,
in George Street, and one minute’s
walk from the G.P.O.
There, in an atmosphere of leisure
and convenience, one may select
any article for men’s or boys’
wear, with the assurance that it
is of the most reliable quality
and the utmost value.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
PRIMARY PRODUCERS WOOL
AND PRODUCE SELLING CO. LTD.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
£200,000.
Office and Saleroom .... Scottish House, 19 Bridge Street, Sydney
W ° ol Stores Windmill Street, Miller’s Point, Sydney
Directors:
The Hon. FRANK CHAFFEY', M.L.A.,Grazier
Tamworth.
E. E. COLLINS, Esq., Grazier, Wagera
W. GORDON McKINNON, Esq., Grazier, Junee.
A. A. MACKENZIE, Esq., Grazier, Guyra.
LESI/f Grazier, Gunnedah.
E P ‘ dutt oN, Esq., Grazier. Guvra
lIARROLD CO WLISHAW, Esq., Merchant,
G. H. HARDING, Esq., Company Director, Sydney.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY
The object of the Company is to offer at auction, within 21 days ’after arrival in t
wools consigned to it for sale, whether they be large or small eW , In , store > all
or faulty, in order of arrival . g or smaU cJI P s > late or early shorn, free
Don’t run the risk of having to wait longer for vour wool to v lO , ■ , ,
offered promptly by the PRIMARY PRODUCERS WOOL PRODUCE^SELUNG"cO^LTD
Consignment notes will be forwarded on application.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES ARE INVITED.
Top
Prices
SEND YODR
SKINS!
WINCHCOM BE
CARSON ,/r
r>
Y
s
are the attraction. Rabbit, Fox and every
other class of sk'n make full values at
Winchcombe, Carson’s auctions.
Address Letters;
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
Salesmen, LTD.
Winchcombe House, or 99-101 Eagle St.,
Bridge St., Sydney, Brisbane.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
the right crop rotation?
ii/Zz/wSoP : Touching on rotation (B.
-U/b/28), is Fircstick” sure rlmt he is ou
the right track when lie advocates the last
order wheat, then oats? Both wheat and
oats belong to the silica-plant family; they
remove the same nourishing matter from
the soil. This means that oats, sown follow-
ing wheat, find the soil robbed of the nourish-
ment which is peculiarly required. Fertiliser
is not wholly a good substitute for this
nutriment; the asli-food removed by the
wheat must go back, if you would have good
oat crops. Treat wheat land artificially
as you will, it is still practically barren in
nutriment for the following crop of oats.
FENCING PROBLEMS.
"Crimea”: A writer in these pages men-
tioned lately the difficulty of keeping a fence
down where it crosses a creek or other depres-
sion, and said that a straining post should
occupy the deepest spot. This is not always
a solution of the problem, as the dip may bo
so great and abrupt that the strain of six or
seven wires will lift the post out of soft,
freshly-rammed earth. An ordinary post
will, however, withstand all the upward pull
if used with knowledge.
When the hole has been dug undermine it
on both sides as far back as possible to a
height of about 6in. from the bottom. Cut
about ISin. from a spare post for the foot
and lay it T-wise on the end of the post to
be sunk; bore a hole at each end of the foot
and one through the post about a foot from
the ground level, fastening the two sections
together from these holes with double No.
S wire. Now put the post in the hole, turn-
ing it until the ends of the foot jamb in the
cavities prepared for them. If the soil is
wet or loose, bring a few spadesful from
higher ground and ram well. The post will
lift an inch or two when all the wires are
strained, but after that it will not budge.
In wet or sandy country a corner post will
persist in giving a little as each wire ils
strained up, making it hard to get all the
wires thoroughly tight. To remedy this
trouble, wire back, before straining, the top
of the post against which the stay butts to
the straining post at ground level. This
prevents the stay post from being pushed over
by the pressure from the post.
SUBSOILING.
“Clarenza”; Many farmers are deterred
from subsoiling by the high cost of the stan-
dard implements offering. But a very effici-
ent subsoiler can be made from the old long-
mouldboard type of single-furrow plough.
Remove the mouldboard, and see that the
rest of the plough is in good order, with
the share on the small side if the soil is
stiff. I have also found a running wheel on
the beam an advantage in most cases. Two
horses will usually be sufficient, but three
can be used. Follow in the furrow of the
single-furrow disc- or mouldboard-plough, at
the depth the.plough would ordinarily work.
The bottom will be broken up without being
thrown to the surface. I have seen very
effective work done by this contrivance with
two horses, where standard subsoilers could
not be worked with three. The old ploughs
needed are to be found lying discarded about
many farms and most blacksmiths’ shops.
MENDING THE LAND.
“Hatter”: The best method of renewing
soil-fertility is largely governed by the rain-
fall of the district, and it can be readily
understood why clover, as a rotation crop, is,
as points out (B. 20/6/’2B), less
suited to the area of the wlieatbelt than to
the cooler and moister portions of Australia.
Clover supplies humus, nitrogen and a large
quantity of fodder for livestock. In a dry
climate, however, there i s a tendency for
humus to accumulate in the upper layers of
the soil instead of being washed down to the
lower levels by heavy rains, and therefore
does not require renewing to the same ex-
tent. Also, though nitrogen always results
in extra growth in cool, moist climates,
superphosphate is usually the only fertiliser
needed in dry, sunny regions. As a fodder
crop, too, clover is naturally more suited to
the mixed farmer than to the wheat-grower.
At the same time there are very large
tracts of country where clovers can be in-
cluded in the rotation system with excellent
results. Subterranean clover is frequently
broadcasted ou pasture lands in coastal areas,
and supplies nutritious fodder which, when in
seed, is particularly fattening to stock; but it
has been found that in three or four years it
will entirely eradicate-' the natural grasses,
as the stock never allow the grass to seed;
but the clover, by burying a certain portion
°f its seed underground, protects itself. To
obtain a properly balanced ration, therefore,
it is better to cultivate and to establish
the grass along with the clover!
TOO MANY VARIETIES.
“11.L.G.” ; Most farmers, especially those
in a small way, grow too many varieties of
wheat. It is not uncommon to find a man
growing as many as four or five on 120
acres. Perusal of the results of trials con-
ducted by the Vic. Department of Agricul-
ture in various districts shows that the
difference in yield bdtwen the variety which
heads the list and varieties generally favored
in the district often amounts to five or six
bushels. This means that a fair propor-
tion of farmers in that district could obtain
up to two bags an acre more from their
crops without any extra labor or expense.
In many cases this would mean the differ-
ence between a payable crop and an unpay-
able one*. Of course, it would be unwise
to sow a large area of any variety of wheat
which bad given a good yield for one year
only. The Department attaches no import-
ance to the results of one year, but makes
its recommendation on the average of from
three to five years’ results. Thus a farmer
should have- no difficulty in limiting his
choice to two or, at the most, three varie-
ties which have given good results over a
term, of years.
training farm horses.
“Clarenza”: Always train young horses
to work on either near or off side, and to
walk on the turned-up sod. It is no uncom-
mon thing to find aged horses that, having-
been habitually worked only on one side
when young, are awkward and inefficient
when changed over, and especially if changed
from the land to the furrow; they never
seem able to pull properly or keep them-
selves upright. This leaning habit makes it
difficult to keep a plough or cultivator run-
ning straight. Place something that will
have the effect of a light spur—a broken
piece of barbed-wire is a good thing—under
the flap of the backhand, or on the trace,
on the lean-to side. Care should be taken
that the barb is not long or sharp, but only
just sufficient to make the horse straighten
up. It is, of course, understood that the
driver first makes sure that the lean is not
due to a sore shoulder or other chafing, or
to inequalities in the harness.
CANCER.
I hong : Being now able to look back over
a good many years’ experience amongst stock,
with a special interest in, their ailments, I
often wonder why the veterinary profession
has not made more contributions to the cam-
paign against cancer. Aliy observant stock-
man knows that the various forms of cancer
affecting humans are by no means rare
amongst stock, and to me this fact knocks the
stuffing out of the published theories, usually
by medicoes, of predisposing causes of this
scourge amongst humans—such as too much
booze, too much tobacco, too much white
bread, too much tinned foods, etc.
Precisely like a human, an animal may
develop an epithelioma, a carcinoma or a
sarcoma, the first-named being commonest and
found principally in cattle (some cattle)
at the seat of the brand, in the eye, etc.
Sheep run cattle close in order of cancer-
frequency (especially cancer of the ear),
horses keeping up a respectable rear, whilst
the “gintleman” of the mixed diet (some-
times woefully mixed) enjoys the greatest
immunity. One sees more skin cancers in
washy colored cattle than among the dark-
skinned, and more "in the eye in whites and
baldies, so that the texture of the skin seems
important.
A large sum of public money has been sub-
scribed for cancer research, and I believe
the veterinary profession, with its subjects
offering a much more ready medium for ex-
perimenting than the medical, lias the shortest
cut to something tangible.
PIORSES WITH BROKEN LEGS.
“Dinkum”: “W.W.F.” asks (B. 27/6/’2B)
if there are any authentic cases of horses
with broken legs having been saved. Swyn-
ford broke a leg in 1913 and it was thought
he would have to be destroyed; but lie was
put in slings and saved to sire many famous
gallopers. Two of his sons, March Along
and Top Gallant, are doing stud duty in
Australia.
“Ted It.”: I can quote two cases. Ned
Morris, a drover of Walgett (N.S.W.), had
a blood filly whicli broke her fetlock by
galloping into a rabbit burrow. Morris set
the bone, bandaged splints firmly in position
and stable-fed the, mare until the break had
knitted. She won races at unregistered
country meetings and proved a valuable
brood mare. Albert Brouff, of Wilgubah,
Beanbri (N.S.W.), had a hunter which
broke its leg while being schooled over
hurdles. That horse was put in a sling and
is now the best hack on the place.
“Pick” : A roan draught stallion belonging
to Mick Geraghty, a Manaro (N.S.W.)
teamster, had its off front shin broken so
badly that in limping away the lower por-
tion of the limb swung loosely to and fro.
The stallion was left in the paddock to take
his chances, and without attention. In six
months the break had completely mended,
but with a pronounced bend in the shin-bone.
For years afterwards the animal, though
with a constant limp from the shortened
leg, was one of the heftiest pullers in Ger-
aghty’s team.
[Over a dozen other cases have been reported by
later correspondents.—Ed.]
BRAN AS HORSE FODDER.
“Agricola” : Bran is an excellent fodder for
horses in right proportions, wet or dry, and
its laxative effect is not due to its being only
partially digested after being bolted down. If
fed perfectly dry in sufficient amount it will
scour, and such result is due to the high
content of magnesia. Forbes, of Ohio, de-
monstrated that if magnesia was removed by
chemical skill without injuring the texture of
the food, no laxative influence remained. It
is rich in protein but ill-balanced in its
mineral nutrients. I came to a dairy where
the owner was in mourning, his best cow
being very sick. She had got to the bran-
bag. “There is no hope,” he said—“l lost
one that way before.” “Get a move on,” I
ordered. “Soda, salt and ashes.” I gave the
cow the drench and made a friend for life.
In Miller’s horse disease the head of a horse
swells and rots—caused by excess of mag-
nesia.
BOGGED STOCK.
“G.S.M.”: “N.M.L.’s” method of pulling
out bogged sheep (B. 27/6/’2B) is unneces-
sarily cruel. Putting your hands on each
side of the neck and heaving the sheep out
means, in nine cases out of ten, badly
strained muscles for the sheep. The correct
way is to ease and lift each foot out sepa-
rately—painless to the sheep and easy for
yourself. Then carry the sheep to high
ground and go on with “W.M.L.’s” treat-
ment.
I also object to his method of pulling cattle
out; by the horns alone. Use a rope around
the chest coupled to a strong breeching, and
then hitch on Dobbin, all legs, if possible,
being eased or pulled out separately first.
A similar method should be used for’bogged
horses.
YARDING LAMBS.
Blowfly’ : The less noise used in yarding
ewes and lambs or weaners the better. The
yarding of such sheep will be made much
easier by having as many men as are avail-
able to hold a strip of hessian around the
mob. and gently wave it to and fro. This
will, be found to prevent any lambs breaking
away and scattering the mob. Should hes-
sian be unavailable, a leafy branch held in
each hand and gently shaken will prove
almost as effective.
FLUKE.
RXB ; The carbon tetrachloride treat-
ment for sheep affected with liver fluke" is
S® best„and Cheapest yet offered; but, as
Blowfly (B. 4/7/’2B) says, it does not
immunise sheep, and prevention is better
than cure at any time. The best method of
prevention is to broadcast powdered blue-
stone or copper sulphate along an area of
uver banks, banks of dams and over all wet
or marshy ground that is inhabited by water
snails. It is a cheap method and results in
killing out the water snails, and without
them the liver fluke cannot develop. The
egg of the pest goes on to the grass with
the sheep s droppings, and under favorable
conditions the embryo escapes from the eg°-
and begins to search for a water snail If
it cannot find one within about 48 hours it
will perish; but as soon as it meets a snail
it bunows into its interior to undergo fur-
thei stages of its life-history, eventually
escaping from the snail as it wanders about
to become encysted on a grass stem to await
patiently for a sheep to swallow it. Once
in the sheep this form rapidly develops into
a liver fluke, to lay more eggs and start the
vicious circle over again. I have tested the
blue&tone broadcasting, and careful observa-
tion reveals that the treated aVeas are now
free of snails.
BURRY FLEECES.
“Bosso”: In handling burry fleeces, many
beginners with sheep who do their own work
in a small shed make a mistake in skirting.
A very small percentage of burr or seed in
fleece wool reduces its value by a few pence
per pound, compared with similar wool free
from faults. If the fleece has only a light
scattering of burr on the shoulders, sides
and breech, it can all be taken off, leaving
the fleece free; but if the fleece is practically
covered with burr, it should be skirted only
on the worst portions of the sides, as no
amount of skirting would put it in the free
class'. Such wool should be baled separately,
as the buyer bases his value upon the worst
sample lie finds in a bale —and he rarely
misses it.
DEPOT SHEARING.
"Kell B.” : “Mouton” (B. 27/6/ 28) makes
all the points in favor of depot, shearing,
without giving the other side. Sheepowners
who have bought experience through driving
sheep off their run to a shed (unless to an
adjoining neighbor’s) will tell quite a dif-
ferent story. If a depot shed was big enough
to cut out that 1000 sheep in a day, where
would he find enough sheep-farmers within
reasonable distance to keep it going long
enough to attract a bad shearer, let alone
those six or eight good ones “Mouton” so
confidently expects?
On the other hand, three good neighbors
shearing in one shed have advantages which
are never found in a depot shed. They
will “give and take” where the compara-
tive strangers in a depot shed will insist
upon having their turn. If a depot con-
tractor has had his shearing delayed, you
may bet 10 to 1 then on a “wild cut.”
As for an “expert wool-classer” being so
necessary, many experienced farmers with
many more than 1000 sheep have got better
returns when a clip has been baled all
together except portions and fleeces which
either Jones or Murphy would be quite
capable of picking out as something inferior
to the average quality. With stained, broken,
"wasty” or inferior fleeces kept out, the
wool-buyer has a pretty near idea of its
value and character, and it goes with many
a depot clip to be re-classed into big lines.
But perhaps the most conclusive argument
against depot sheds (except in rare circum-
stances) is the fact that every year sees
more and more of them broken up.
ARTICHOKES AS PIG FOOD.
“Mulga Mick” : As an economical food for
fattening pigs the artichoke stands alone.
It is a very heavy cropper, free from disease
and easy to cultivate. It can be put in the
same as potatoes, and will yield four times
the crop. No cooking is required. Planted
about the latter end of September, it may be
dug in the following May or June; or it
can be left in the ground and the pigs turned
on. to it. The best method is to dig as re-
quired and feed straight to the pigs. They
require no other food, nor water. In 30
days a 401 b. pig will put on at least 201 b.
weight. Putting this 201 b. at Gd. per lb. (a
very low estimate), that means a profit of
10s. per pig, or £75 per acre. Cost of sow-
ing: Seed, four bags to the acre, at 10s. per
bag, £2; two men and plant, two days at
30s. per day, £3; total cost, £5.
As no manure is required, that means a
profit of £7O per acre. These are the actual
figures of a crop grown in the Ringarooma
district (Tas.) this year, where a crop of
2i acres yielded 30 tons to the acre. To
show how prolific it was, I counted 122
tubers under one root.
POTATOES FOR PIGS.
“W.W.J.”: Raw potatoes are no use to
fatten pigs. They must be cooked. Make
a furnace of bricks wide enough to allow a
kerosene-tin to fit in loosely, and long enough
to hold a row of six or eight tins. The
furnace door is at one end and the tins must
be raised on hobs so that the fuel can be got
underneath. No mortar is needed, just
build the bricks up neatly, and carry the
walls up about three inches higher than the
tins. Lay a sheet of old iron over all to
conserve the heat. In this way six or eight
tins will cook very quickly.
When the potatoes are cooked, strain off the
water arid mash up with a lump of fat about
as large as an egg to each tin ; also a hand-
ful of linseed meal. Tip the lot into a barrel
with any milk available, and add some pol-
lard. The pollard should be fortified with
10 per cent, of pea meal. Stir well.
TREATMENT OF PIGS.
“C.K..C.” : The surest way to lose money
with pigs is to feed them well and to treat
them with indifference in other respects.
Pigs respond to decent care in a more
marked degree than any other domestic
(Continued on page 31.)


FROM YQUR
t.
r
9
THE MIasSSING LINK
Your car can supply the whole driving power
required for your farm.
An idle Car keeps your Bank Account below
the prefit mark.
Your Car's wear and tear in supplying your
Farm Power through the Transmitter will
be less than when driven on smooth and
level road.
There is no more need to deplore lack of
efficient harnessed Power while you have a
Car and a Universal Motor Power Trans-
mitter.
Not until you instal a Transmitter will you
realise these facts—and not till then will
your Farm show the profit your labor
deserves.
Your Car, coupled with the Transmitter,
will add to your profits.
A boon to farmers and land-holders.
6 S®H
1 k:
wm
■
h*.
i:
.
\
■ ■
‘ •':' ■ : . :•
■
■■
mm
B
Pig. b—Showing Trailer Transmitter and Saw-
bench .
What It Is.
It is portable enough to be carried in
your Car, ,is ready for use in a few
minutes, and is so simple that the boy
can adjust and operate it without
supervision.
Fig. A—Showing Power
Transmitter working Saw
Bench. Wheels of car
slightly off ground and in
contact with driving
pulleys.
p la c —(4) Lever. By pressing same down, trailer
is automatically raised and trailer whe els lowered
to ground for travelling purposes. («) Bings
by which trailer is fastened to bach of motor
vehicle when travelling.
What It Will Do.
The Universal Motor Power
Transmitter Will Drive Your
Chaff Cutters
Water Pumps
Cora Crushers
Milking Machines
Concrete Mixers
Sawbenches
Hay Presses
Shearing Machines
Grindstones
Wheat Graders
And for any other job you have on the Farm.
And it Does Not Wear,
but Improves Your Tyres!
pig 2 —Universal Model designed to fit
anil car or one-ton truck. (A) Driving
Pulley (B) Transmission Pulleys. (C)
Lifting Jacks.
c
c
M
A
A
A MODEL FOR
EVERY CAR
AND TRUCK.
Make Your Car
Pay Its Keep.
The wearing parts on the Trans-
mitter are so few that it will practi-
cally last a lifetime.
There is no possible risk of over-
heating or injury to your engine
while running on the Transmitter!
ana it will not injure your Tyres.
With the Transmitter, your Car is
no longer a luxury but a necessity.
From a Power point of view, the
Transmitter is the greatest boon
offered to the man on the land, in
the history of the country.
MUCH MORE IS TO BE SAID FOR
THE PATENT TRANSMITTER.
SEND FOR FREE DESCRIPTIVE
LITERATURE and FULL DETAILS.
Fill in the attached Coupon and
post to-day.
Motor Power Transmitters Limited
76 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
’Phone: 81139. Box 611, G.P.0., Sydney.
Telegraphic Address: *‘7ransmotor, Sydney.”
AGENCIES AVAILABLE IN ALL STATES AND N.Z. TO ESTABLISHED FIRMS.
COUPON.
Please send me, without any obligation,
full details of your Universal Motor
Power Transmitter.
NAME
ADDRESS


BASH BMW CE
MEANS Count
0 s
s=— -J>D—
m
iilWj,,
;-K,<v A !l J f)
&
7*7
,r
7^o
//:
L
.
n
s^^XiO)
' S tt?tSss^^sg:
\
Rear chassis view of the car of basic balance,
in which springs, axle, frame, brakes, etc., all
have a balanced relationship.
PRICES:
Tourer £565
Roadster - - - £565
Saloon £640
5 Balloon Tyres and Tube*
Standard Equipment.
At Company’s Works, All States
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR
BASIC balance, as interpreted in the 20-60 Vauxhall
Six, means not an assemblage of parts but a
complete and unified motor-car ready for any test
that modern motoring may make.
In the securing of basic balance, springing plays a vital
part.
Thus m the 20-60 Vauxhall there is no guesswork in the
spring design. The deflection of each leaf is calculated
with mathematical precision.
Whilst this means unusual riding comfort for the passen-
gers, something more than personal comfort is involved.
The preservation of the car’s mechanism and coachwork
from jolts and strains, road holding qualities and the
maintenance of high average speed are also secured.
Arrange for a trial run. You’ll be astonished at the
speed at which 20-60 Vauxhall can cover rough roads
and greatly impressed with the absence of rolling on
sharp bends.
Learn more about the “Car of Basic Balance”
Arrange a demonstration .
cjheMew r 2D ~60
Vauxhall
Ike Car of Basic Balance, '
ASK YOUR LOCAL DEALER FOR LITERATURE SHOW l' >
BODY TYPES AND MECHANICAL FEATURES
Sydney Distributors:
BOYD EDKINS, LTD.,
109-119 Phillip-street, Sydney.
Built at Luton,
Bedfordshire,
England.
siM
2L
Distributed throughout Australia by GENERAL MOTORS (AUS.) PTY., LTD.


SUPPLE...
but close-fitting!
Here’s a riding boot that fits like a
glove and yet is delightfully easy
and soft to wear.
It’s an exclusive Abbey design
with an upper curved to take the
arch of the instep without wrinkling
or strain. It is lined completely with
soft leather no canvas, no bumpy
seams inside.
This Abbey Riding Boot is light in
weight. The pliant sole is made of
the toughest leather that can be got.
For foot freedom and smartness it
is unsurpassed. And, anyone who
has worn Abbey Boots will tell you
that they outlast ordinary kinds.
Order by Post
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
available in every size. That makes
it easy to obtain exact fit. Specify
width when ordering, and ask, also,
for the correct Abbey Polish (6d.
per tin).
Tan Willow Calf 427-
Black Box Calf 37/6
bO-Page Catalogue Post Free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St. Sydney
LB2.
GROCERS.
JHE “EARL” BACON CUTTERS, “made
in Australia,” are always at your service—made
in five models, prices £8 to £3B, cash or terms.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
HUMPHREY EARL, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging ancj shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices "on application.
»GOOROCK
SUSS
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
GRIP YOUR HORSE
asfd
with Wieneke’s
New Model
1928
L.
THE PRINCE
POLEY
£14/14/-
Ccnnp’.ete.
SIGN HERE and I
Name. .........
Address
Post this Ad.
PRINCE poley
The kneepads are set
higher up, but the
stirrup bars are free
for safety; in case of'
an accident the
leathers will pull off.
Forty years’ saddle-
making has made the
Wieneke world-
famous.
will send you my big book of
saddles and my experiences.
JACK WIENEKE,
c/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 George St., Sydney.
432 Queen St., Brisbane,
asdf
Little Giant
Sash Support
So light a set for any
size window can be sent
anywhere for sixpence-
yet so strong, two (one
on each sash) will sup- I
port a paii' of sash
weighing 161 b., or four
a pair of sash weigh-
ing 321 b.
Use Solid Frames,
stronger and less costly.
The Old
Window Prop
maybe good enough
for the humpy,
but it’s out or place in the modern
country home. It is untidy, unsafe
and unnecessary.
No matter how far out back you may live,
you can now have the comfort and convenience
of box-frame (pulley and cord) windows, with-
out the expense, freight, difficulty of installa-
tion, or cost and trouble of renewal.
And no matter how near town your home,
it will pay you better to specify, instead of the
clumsy and perishable cords and weights, the
“Little Giant Sash Support.”
Fit the LITTLE GIANT yourself
with a screwdriver.
Write for particulars fo the
AUSTRAL WINDOW CO.,
lO Bligh Street, Sydney.
rr
L
Relieve Irritations
By Using Cuticura
Bathe the affected parts freely
with Cuticura Soap and hot water,
dry without rubbing, then apply
Cuticura Ointment. For eczemas,
rashes, itchings, irritations, etc.,
they are wonderful. Use Cuticura
Soap daily to keep your skin clear.
Soap Is., Talcumls.3d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: *‘R. Towns & Co.,Sydney,N.S.W, ”
fpilF Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY. Also at WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE..
Auction Sales s WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
Throughout the Year l HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock, Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney. JAMES KIDD, General Manager for Australia.
ASSURED POSITIONS! BETTER MONEY!
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life. A profession in
which competition is limited and which offers wonderful opportunities if you have any ability
and are persevering. Our tuition gives opportunities to students not to be found elsewhere.
Write for our booklet, telling of positions, salaries and fees, to-day. Start your new career NOW.'
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
W&W26.
onii
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRANi
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
animals, and to the same extent do they
show the effects of neglect.
One of the most important factors in the
successful raising of pigs is a supply oi
good, dry bedding—and plenty of it. 1 igs.
especially young ones, should be able to
turn in at night or on a bleak day com-
pletely hidden in a mass of straw or grass
bay. . /
Another bad fault, an almost universal
one, i;; that the roof of the sty is no higher
than is necessary to allow the pigs to pass
under it. During cold weather they may
suffer no inconvenience, but when the heat
of the summer is at its highest it is nothing
but torture to pigs that have to lie within
two or three feet of an iron roof. In the
case of a sow due to farrow in the summer-
time and only a low-roofed sty available,
the roof should be well covered with green
boughs, occasionally renewed, until the
young ones are strong enough to run out
with the sow.
As soon as young pigs evince an interest
in the sow’s feed introduce another trough
into the sty, railing it off in such a manner
that the sow is unable to get to it, and at
each feeding of the sow put some skimmed
milk and meal into it.
Always try to be present at an accouche-
ment, as sows show little sense in their
arrangements. As the piglets arrive place
them carefully in a nest of straw out of
harm’s way. When the last one has arrived
place them in a row on the. teats.
When about a week has elapsed cull out
the weaklings and destroy them—five or six
strong young pigs are more profitable than
eight or ten mixed grades.
Don’t forget that green stuff is the
natural feed of pigs. When they can’t get it
naturally supply it to them.
Whenever possible in the summer-time
allow stores access to a creek or waterhole.
MILK FEVER.
“RXB”: “Vet” (B. 4/7/’2B) is quite
right in condemning the treatment for milk
fever in cows .offered by “Paul” (B.
30/5/’2B). It would be very dangerous to
drench a cow in the circumstances, and
even if it were successfully done the drench
would have very little good effect, if any.
The proper treatment for milk fever is to
pump air into the udder until .it is full, and
apply massage for five minutes or so, as
“Vet” says. The oxygen in the air immedi-
ately kills the wogs that have caused the
trouble, and the cow is relieved and out of
danger. But he did not say how to do it.
A bicycle or car pump is usually resorted to.
but this is a slow and crude method that
requires more than one pair of hands. In-
vest in' a proper milk-fever outfit without
delay; read the instructions that accom-
pany it, and understand how to fit it together
before putting it away to await the emer-
gency that may arise at any time. Mine is
a superior make, but it cost only 12s. 6d„
and it has been worth a thousand times its
weight in cow.
CARE OF MILKING MACHINES.
“C.S.”: The secret of getting good milk
and cream when milking machines are used
is in the exercise of care and cleanliness
from the start. Once the rubber parts get
contaminated they cannot be cleaned; to
throw them away and get new ones is the
only course.
A thorough cleaning once a week will
not result in choicest grade at the factory.
All parts of "the machine must be cleaned
carefully .every day, and between milkings
the inflations and tubes should be soaked
in lime-water, renewing the lime-water
often, as it soon becomes offensive.
When removing cups from one cow to
another, care should be taken to see that
they are held so as to fall over and break
the suction. If they are carried face down-
ward, all the dust and manure on the floor
is sucked into the tube and thence into the
buckets and vat.
POULTRY RATIONS.
“Catalyst”: Some recent experiments in
Scotland on feeding substances high in vita-
mines to poultry brought up on a well-balanced
ration are of great interest. Vitamine A in
the form of cod-liver oil decreased rather
than increased egg production. B and C did
not influence growth or egg output. Vita-
mines were only valuable when the fowls
were suffering from malnutrition or fed on
a badly-balanced ration. This statement is
also applicable to human beings, those on a
good mixed diet not needing to worry over
vitamines, while those on bread and meat
only are vitally concerned. Wholemeal-bread
faddists might remember these points.
The effects of mineral salts on egg produc-
tion were remarkable. An admixture consist-
ing of bone flour 100 parts, chalk (carbonate
of lime) 40, common salt 40, sulphur 10,
iron oxide 10, and potassium iodide 1 part
was fed in varying amounts with a well-
balanced mash. Experiments were carried on
from 5 to 12 months, the increased egg pro-
duction over controls being from 25 to 70
per cent. Fishbone meal also produced ex-
cellent results.
LOOK AFTER THE SULTAN.
“Jack Point”: A good breeding cock is
most attentive to his wives, and will often
scratch and fuss round so much that he
will go short of rations himself, and conse-
quently fall away in condition, with disas-
• trous results to fertility. The head of the
pen should be examined frequently to see
that he is holding his condition; if he isn’t
he should be given a feed by himself about
midday every day, preferably of whole corn.
While examining him, it is also as well to
have a look at his spurs; if these are too
long or sharp they should be cut or filed
away. Large wattles also greatly interfere
with a cock’s feeding, as they drag on the
ground and make it hard work to pick up
each grain. If the wattles are found to be
interfering in this way, they should be cut
off, and it will only be a matter of a day or
two before they will be completely healed. All
the attention that is necessary is to stop
the bleeding and put the patient in a pen
for a day or two.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Sunny Hill”: If your land is sloping,
the highest position should be given to apri-
cots, with peaches, nectarines, plums, apples
pears in that order down the slope. The
land need not be very rich, but must be
well drained. Plant trees at least 20 feet
apart. Dig the hole with the sides as deep
as the centre. Examine the roots, and cut
off with a sharp knife any that are bruised
or damaged. Throw a shovelful of fine soil
to the bottom of the hole, stand the tree up,
spreading the roots out. Fill in ,the soil
carefully; when at ground level tramp it
down well round the roots of the tree. Half
a bucket of water will help, but no manure.
Get someone who knows something about
pruning to have a look at them, and you’re
set.
“Sunny Hill": For feeding poultry salt
is necessary, but see that it is dissolved in
water before mixing with the mash. A few
grains of salt are enough to kill a chook.
“P.M.” : When putting up straining posts
and struts i for fences, a wooden chock for
the strut soon gets rotted away in white-
ant-infested country. A ploughshare driven
into the ground will last a lifetime.
“Valerin”: A lot of chimneys smoke in
country houses. Raise the hearth a brick
high—44 inches —and the draught will drive
the smoke up the chimney. On the hearth
level with the floor the draught sends the
smoke against the back of the fireplace and
it swirls into the room.
“C.C.”: “Rural” (B. 20/6/’2B) remarks
that the Jonathan must be pruned differently
from some other apples, but doesn’t say how.
To bring a Jonathan into bearing the
laterals should be left alone until fruit buds
appear at the base; they may then be short-
ened. If you keep cutting back to‘ leaf buds
you only delay the fruiting.
“Bosso”: Re a turpentine drench for
liorses suffering from worms, bots, etc. In
inexperienced hands all drenches are risky
especially when the operator omits to give
the animal warning of what is coming by
touching the roof of the mouth with the
drencher. But turpentine drenches are
dangerous, and it is far safer to administer
the turpentine, when necessary, in a capsule,
which can be obtained from any chemist.
“Werrimee” : To keep the posts of a wire
fence in position, where the fence crosses a
small hollow or gully, and the strained wire
has a tendency to lift them, strap the posts
down with a “surcingle.” Run a wire through
the top hole of the post that stands in the
centre*of the hollow, continuing through tho
second hole of the next post on each side,
then through the third and so on, finishing
in the bottom hole of the fifth post. Strain
tightly.
“Sylvester”: “.Tarambi” (B. 20/6/’2B) ad-
vises the use of pliers to hold springhead
nails when driving. As the point of the
springhead is blunt it burrs the iron if driven
through, and the result is often a leaky roof.
Punch for all springheads with a sharp
tool.
“Noal”: Lupins are one of the best,
fertilisers for sandy soil; with a rainfall of
about lOin. they will grow in profusion and
without attention. After a few years they
make the ground rich enough to grow almost
anything. There is no danger of their be-
coming a pest, for they are easily extermi-
nated. They are one of the best sand-drift
reclaimers a person can find.
“Bosso”: I can endorse “Lalal’s” opinion
that poisoned parrots are irresistible titbits
for foxes, but there is no necessity to lay
a trail to drop the parrots on. I bang them
on the netting fences around which Reynard
takes his stroll, on moonlight nights, in
search of rabbits who are trying to get into
the crop. I find this method very success-
ful. Apparently they look as though they
had been caught in the netting and appear
more natural to the fox.
“Bosso” : To get top prices for fox skins,
don’t be too stingy with the nails when
pegging them out to dry in the shade. If
you put the nails too far apart, the skin
will have a scalloped edge, whereas by using
plenty of them the skin should be stretched
nearly square. Fox skins are more, valuable
if the “mask” or face-piece is taken off un-
damaged, and the full brush left on.
“B-Gar”: To add strength to the stock-
whip handle, cover with the tail of a bul-
lock. Scrape off the hair, soak thoroughly,
turn inside out and pull over the handle.
Cut off any overlap at each end and the job
is finished.
“K. 8.” : Call in a competent man to look
over your horse’s teeth, and then you may
know the reason why Bob will not keep his
condition and is slobbering over his food.
Recently I had the horses of my team
attended to, and the state of their teeth was
in direct proportion to the condition they
were carrying. Two five-year-olds stood out.
One, seeming fit for the old-age pension, had
an awful mouthful of jagged edges and con-
sequent sore and tender gums, and one molar
nearly half an inch longer than its mates had
worn a hole in the opposite tooth, so that as
soon as your hand touched the spot he would
wince. The other, fat and trim, had practi-
cally a perfect mouth. The small charge
will be well spent.
“Fly” : To make a station soap, melt 201 b.
caustic potash in two gal. water. Melt 801 b.
tallow (free from salt) in a boiler or copper.
To the tallow add the caustic potash, mix
well in an old watertight cask. Pour the
mixture into a mould ; cover the sides with
cloth to prevent the soap adhering. Put in
a warm place and leave for four or five
days. Cut up into suitable lengths, and put
by for later use.
“ Jesmond”: “Yufu” (B. 13/6/’2B) puts
over a new one when he says Epsom salts
are poison to milking cows. Practically
every drench for milking cows contains mag.
sulph. in varying proportions, and some
dairymen use salts alone.
“Rustic” : Bloat in cattle may be reduced in
a very short time by giving the anitnal three
or four tablespoonfuls of turpentine in a
pint of milk. A pint of raw linseed oil is
often effective; and, in an emergency, a
heaped tablespoonful of baking soda given
in a pint of lukewarm water. In bad eases
any of the above first-aids can be repeated
in half to three-quarters of an hour. After
being treated the animal should be given
only water with the chill taken off and very
little feed for the next 48 hours.


' I‘‘he first puff convinces you
of the superior quality of
io
for
9 a
CIGARETTES
20
for
1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper.
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
I
US
CORK TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
It’s a strong Jane that has no yearning.
Most married men arc outspoken—by
their wives.
* si:
The meek shall inherit the earth —when
the present owners are dead.
NOT AFRAID TO TRY.
“But aren’t you the little hoy who was in
with the first lot of children and ate so
heartily then? Surely you’re not still
hungry.”
“I ain’t ’ungry, Miss.; hut I’m willin’.”
In the old days girls had to mind their
P’s and Q’s. Nowadays they pay more
attention to their hose and eyes.
A scientist has asserted that there is alco-
hol in the atmosphere, but we still hold that
a nip ip the bottle is worth two in the air.
We understand that excavations being
made in front of the Sydney Town Hall are
not connected with a search for secret com-
missions paid on city coal contracts.
* *
By trying to pick winners at the bass’s
expense many a man lias finished up by
picking oakum at the State’s.
* *
A burglar who broke into a flat the other
day got the surprise of his life when he
heard a feminine voice greet him with,
“Welcome.” He didn’t stop. He remem-
bered it was Leap Year.
Thank Heaven, we’re out of debt,” he said,
‘‘We'll start as we were before.”
“Yes, isn’t it nice?” said the girl he’d iced,
“I’ll go and get credit once more!”
It would seem that the drunk who the
other day walked right off the roof of a 12-
storey building had a drop too much.
A DAY'S WORK.
[Scene: The farm. Dad and Dave ploughing.
Time 8 a.m.]
Dave: “ ’Strath, Dad. she’s been a lovely
day!”
Politicians are divided into two kinds —
those who are lit for nothing, and those who
are lit for anything.
“What annoyed me, deali boy,” he said,
“was not that she posted a letter refusing
mai proposal, but that the bally thing was
marked ‘twenty posted.’ ”
* *
Revised version: Remember the Sabbath
Day to keep it holey. On the Saturday thou
shalt go to the races and do in all that tlioa
hast; but the Sabbath is Golf’s.
V
It was remarked in the Arbitration Court
a few days ago that “the bachelor of to-day
is the father of to-morrow.” It seems quick
work, even in this hurry-up age.
* *
Mary hud, a little lamb,
But she has it no longer;
For following at the pave she sets
Needs something rather stronger.
A city motor firm advertises that it will
put your initials on your car free of charge.
However, it’s not the initial cost that
troubles us most —it’s the upkeep.
The most unlikely spot we can think of
is for anyone to spot the Melbourne Cup
winner this month.
The Samoan Commission hopes that the
forces now available will provide for the
maintenance of order in the future. If not
they’ll have to order Samoa.
H= * .
A burglar broke into a Scot’s house in
Melbourne the other day and stole even
the coins from the children’s money-boxes.
The gas companies have much to put up
with.
Shouldn’t this thing that the young woman
feels for her young man be spelt “C-h-e-q-u-e-s
appeal”?
It appears that when the Sydney civic
commissioners were appointed a good many
people came to the end of their palmy days.
* *
It isn’t calf love when Dave goes courting
—lie always wants a good milker.
“Blood is thicker than water,” as the
servant girl said when she chose the butcher
to be her young man in preference to the
milkman.
Press report: “Melbourne pig market was
quiet this morning.” Evidently the produce
market reporter had first attended a wool
sale.
A girl wearing a bathing costume is
travelling around the world. The repor
do not explain why she is wearing so much.
Lady Cobham is reported to have typed
reports whilst flying. Our typist, too., often
works with her head in the clouds.
“If by losing twelve lices you can save
thousands in the future, it is a good invest-
ment to make,” says the Melbourne Herald.
The same, we believe, may be said of lives.
He said to her in a soulful way —
Tie was a poet, I bey to say,
Often rejected; and that, I’ll lay,
Was enough the man to vex—
Tie said, “Men never in this world get
What they deserve .” And the little pet
Said, “I don't see why that should make you
fret —
It proves they're the lucky sex!"
victoria. E. T.
It is just one of the minor paradoxes that,
while a punter will often make a pot when
a tip comes off, a billiardist never can.
❖ *
“I often wonder what is the explanation
for a man always giving a woman a diamond
engagement ring,” a popular novelist writes.
“That’s easy—the woman, of course.”
An Austin motor-car club is to be formed
m Melbourne, but it has mot yet been decided
whether babies in arms will be admitted.
Melbourne Herald heading: “Tailoring
Firm Fined £25 for Award Breaches.”
Hanging would be too good for the blighters
that made ours.
Obviously the sport of hit-and-run motor-
ists is not cricket. They even run if they
bowl a maiden over.
* :|t
The difference uetwoeu Melbourne and
Sydney trams is that in Sydney the tram-
guard rides on the footboard
and collects the fares from a
crushed humanity within the
tram, whilst in Melbourne
the guard stays inside and
collects the fares from i
crushed humanity on the
footboard.
# *
We should like to state
that we do not altogether
agree with the opinion that
unmarried men and women
are of no use to the Com-
monwealth. Surely the
country must be all the bet-
ter for a little cheerfulness.
* *
For having set fire to a
dog, a man has been fined £5.
Such a light sentence is, of
course, a burning shame. It's
a flaming pity the lurid
magistrate didn’t make it hot
for him. At least he might-
have put him in the cooler.
At a monster gathering of
women supporters of the Re-
publican candidate for the
American Presidency all pre-
sent joined in the singing of
“Swing Low, Sweet Chariot.” As the meet-
ing ended in fisticuffs, “Swing High, Sweet
Harriet,” would have been more appropriate.
t- :i=
Mary has a little glass —
Ah, that I know ftill well,
For ev’rywhere that Mary goes
Strong peppermints I smell!
OUR SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
6666: Liquor of any color may do to
paint the town red.
* sH
Youngster bought a small pea-rifle....
Undertaker charged a trifle.
❖ =:<
Recently a deputation waited on Victoria’s
Chief Secretary to protest against the circu-
lation of pernicious literature. We learn
that in reply he protested that he was not
wholly responsible for the circulation of
income-tax schedules.
LONG ODDS.
FIRST PESSIMIST: “I’m sick of life. I wisht
I’d never bin born.”
SECOND PESSIAMIST: “That’s right. But on’y
one out of about a million ’as that
luck!”
“With two thumbs on his left hand,”
says a newspaper, “a Sydney man can lift
a weight of 151 b.” But what about those
frail women who go about shoplifting?
JUNIOR HOWLERS.
Somerset is a slang reference to the fortu-
nate.
Abaddon is Australian for a ne’er-do-well.
Pompeii is an Australian general.
A salvo is a member of the Salvation
Army.
A tangent is an out-back Australian.
Lisbon is French for “good Ford.”
* $
Answer to Corres.: No; the “Flying
Scotsman” is the name given to a railway
express, not to an Aberdoniau who wa3
asked to shout.
A MATTER OF PRINCIPAL.
“Oh, they do write such rubbish nowadays I do like
a book with some interest in it.”
“Yes, so do I. And made up every half-year.”
A golf club formed in England for non-
swearers has been wound up. We under-
stand that lie got rather tired of playing
himself.
• * *
First Artist: “I haven’t»seen Dauber about
lately.'”
Second Ditto: “No, he’s busy doing a
series of still-lifes on the waterfront.”
AMBITION.
Ambition burns in all of us—
Though but a tiny flame,
It's nagging’s always urging us
To blase a track to fame:
To rule a State or drive a train,
Or span an ocean broad.
In sgme storm-beating aeroplane,
Or build a better Ford.
The flame in me burns bright and clear:
The day, / hope. I'll see
When swaggies try to hum free beer
By claiming to be me.
N.S.W.
PENN.
THE SMITHY, 1928.
Under the spreading chestnut-tree
The motor garage stands.
The boss a mighty man is he,
With large and greasy hands.
Week in, week out, from morn till night,
You can hear words most obscene, '
As the fitters sprawl in sorry plight,
With a Lizzie that has been.
N.S.W.
W. P. T.
IN GRANDMA’S TIME.
I can see some dear, sweet dolly
Near the mistletoe and holly —
Mother Grundy with her brolly
Standing by.
Grandmama, all love and laces —
Goodness, how the time it races!
And old Grundy’s sour grimaces —
Just for why?
Now she’s gone—our ways are wider.
We recall but to deride her;
With her stout old gamp beside her,
She’s at rest.
Grandma now resents our warning;
Lace and mittens gayly scorning;
Frolics, flapper-like, till morning
With the best.
N.S.W.
MARION.
THE THOUSAND-AND-SECOND TALE.
Now it so happened that on the night
after Scheherazade had told her 1001st tale
and the Sultan had renounced his vow and
everyone was celebrating, there came into the
palace a very old and very feeble man. He
was known to be at least. 115, and some
said that he was even older. Dodderingly
he bowed thrice before the Sultan; then,
holding aloft a very parched hand, he cried
in a quavering voice to the assembly: “Re-
joice, O my brothers, in the future of the
human race, for I, Souptonuts, who am 128
years of age, have just had a son born unto
me—a fine, bouncing boy.” At this the
Sultan arose and cried out in a mighty voice:
“Thy disreputable head must come off, old
Souptonuts, for thou leanest too heavily upon
the susceptibilities and the credulities of this
assembly, and, to come to the point, thou
tellest deplorable damn fibs.” Whereupon
the ancient Souptonuts wept bitterly, and
was about to die of grief, when lo ! Schehe-
razade knelt to plead for his forgiveness. “0
Beneficent One,” she said softly, “judge not
harshly this old man, for I myself, when I
was upon my way to this magnificent palace,
had an experience. I was coming through
the Forest of Untamed Things when I en-
countered a most savage and ferocious tiger,
and at this tiger, which verily threatened
to eat me. I pointed a little stick, and be-
hold! he dropped as dead as mutton.” At
this there was a wild outcry of incredulity,
and the Sultan was like to’ visit his wrath
upon Scheherazade, when she pulled him up
with a round turn, saying: “O Beneficent
One—it was a man in a tree near by who
killed that tiger.” As this story reached its
happy conclusion, there was wild rejoicing
in the palace at Scheherazade’s lucky escape,
and in the excitement everyone forgot old
Souptonuts, who forthwith floated.
TOP RAIL.


Sf
C>
S3
s *
m.
P
‘a
Ufa
m
C/
re
r-;
4
«
V*
\V
v
>
«<
3*V
m
m
*2
2jP
m
y
m
w>
O-
A
m
c*?
-r^
=St
■
KW
OF PROHIBITION BEWARE—
PUT YOUR X IN THE BOTTOM SQUARE.
[_Jny Season
of the yea -
at all!
When gentle Spring, "the sweet o’ the year,” came calling
you to the out o’ doors the exhilaration of the
season best was matched by such a beverage as K.B.
Lager . . . sparkling, joyous, and gently stimulating.
When Summer’s sun sent thousands to the surf, the
thirst that parching heat had bred found satisfaction
in the long, cool draught of Tooth’s K.B. . . . thirst-
quenching, pure, and full of rich refreshment.
When windy Autumn whistled round the world there
still was found a wholesome pleasure in the glass of
mellow K.B. Lager . . . which gave the nourishment
that health demands.
And now—while chilly Winter reigns you’ll find in every
foam-tipped glass of K.B. Lager the elements which
give one’s blood the heat the body needs for comfort.
For out o’ doors —at the domestic meal with the
family supper in any season of the year at all the
most delightful, healthful, sensible beverage is Tooth’s
K.B. .. . it’s a True Lager.
TOOTHS
l/D
IV D
ATmeIAGER
Brewed and Bottled by TOOTH & Co . LIMITED, Kent Brewery, Sydn


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1§72.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Rv’an Esq. •
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G. ’ ’
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory'), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
J
J •
/ V....
XT*'
»i:
m
xj
/T\
"V
-•- XX
k d
\ i
s,—
y
X
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Poverty
Point
‘‘Caesar’s Ghost”: The solemnity with
which most people think it proper to regard
grand opera did not belong to one festive
spirit who climbed to the gallery of Her
Majesty’s to _ have a look at “Lohengrin.”
Came that impressive moment when, the
trial by combat having been arranged, King
Henry the Fowler comes down-stage and
stands between the contestants, a hand on
each. “What’s their weights?” demanded the
festive one; but he was immediately
“S-s-sh”-d into silence. Still, all the “S-sh”-
ing didn’t prevent him from proclaiming the
fight a schleinter when Telramund dropped'
before Lohengrin’s sword had touched him.
“T.P.”: A young musical critic studying
Oswald Pryor’s drawing “Brave an’ Hard”
(B. 11/7/’2B) said to me, “A pity the artist
didn't put his sopranos in front.” Viewing
the sturdy Cousin Jack bassos of the pro-
foundest variety, completely true to type,
solidly planted in the front pew, I explained
that that was the arrangement in ancient
Cornish AVesleyan choirs. For a score of
years the bass singers of the Mount Pleasant
(Ballarat) church choir stormed into the ear
of my old grandfather, who of necessity sang
bass —he never heard anything else. When a
young conductor tried to alter the arrange-
ment the whole choir revolted. Oswald
Pryor knows Jasper and Jennifer as no other
artist in the wilde world does.
“C.R.”: A story told in green-rooms con-
cerns a bottle-oh who called on a suburban
house and got a bagful of empties. “I
suppose,” said the lady, “you make a good
thing out of this.” “Barely a living wage,
Madam, barely a living wage,” asserted the
tradesman, making for the gate. A few
minutes later the housewife answered a
second knock and found the same man at
the door. “I been thinking about what I
just said to you, Madam,” lie said. “I had
me reasons for not telling you the truth,
but the lie’s been worrying me and I think
I can trust you. I do make a good thing,
out of it, a very good thing—but don’t tell
the Taits!”
“Ghost”: He is not highly esteemed
in the profession, but he can tinkle an
average song and, given the material and an
intelligent partner, work a passable patter
act. I say, “given the material,” because
he never lias enough money to buy any.
A few months ago he stopped a jingle-writer
in Queen-street, Auckland, and told the usual
tale of no new material, no engagements, no
money, and a chance of getting a turn with
the pictures if he could dig up a new act.
The writer took his address, which the artist
pointed out was not a permanent one, and
later posted him a five-minute act with com-
pliments, and a “Please acknowledge.” The
acknowledgment arrived in due course, full
of effusive gratitude. It also contained noble
thoughts on the uses of adversity, and con-
cluded with the intimation that the artist
would have plenty of time to swat the patter.
His new address was one of His Majesty’s
gaols.
“P.H.”: If “Kouara” (B. 11/7/’2B) reads
my par. re paper flowers again he’ll find no
reference to song-and-dance shows. Of course,
a management would consider the probable
breakage of limbs through slipping on petals
and leaves; and, anyway, who expects any-
thing real in a musicomedy? iNIy remarks
were confined to the carpeted-floor drama
where artificial flowers look worse than in a
suburbau home, and if effect is being aimed
at a few shillings extra wouldn’t go amiss on
a florist’s bill. One instance 1 forgot to
mention was the first act of Moscovitch’s
“The Fake,” wherein crepe-paper roses were
jabbed into a vase with a miniature anvil-
chorus effect.
“Spokeshave”: The Melbourne Repertory
Society, under Frank Clewlow’s energetic
direction, will commence a new season on
July 31 with Ibsen’s “Enemy of the People,”
to be leavened later with Laigi Chiarelli’s
satirical farce “The Mask and the Face.”
The society is still an Ishmael, with no home
of its own, and has to rent the transpontine
Playhouse when it gets the chance. A few
years ago it could have acquired this com-
fortable little theatre for £ll,OOO. Present
owner makes somewhere around £3OOO p.a.
by letting the place for pictures in the wide
intervals left by the intellectual drama.
“C. 8.”: A victim of his numerous war
injuries, Bobby Pearce, whose fine baritone
was known to a great many Diggers fin
France, passed over in Melbourne the other
day. Though wounded on Gallipoli and
wounded and gassed in France and finally
invalided back to Australia,' he joined up
with Tom Skeyhill on the blind signaller’s
first tour. Then he gave his voice to the
Diggers’ Company at St. Kildft. only leaving
it for a spell in a military hospital. He was
a fighter, if ever there was one. Even in
sickbay his voice was at the service of the
hospital concerts.
“Ghost”: Charles Archer, who treasures
time-worn cuttings from The Bulletin
recording his Melbourne triumphs in melo-
drama, and who now sells an occasional
broom to the housewives of Auckland
(M.L,), gathers a few shekels now and then
by exercising his unfashionable dramatic
art for the picture people. Recently he im-'
personated Emil Jannings in “The Way of
All Flesh” for one Auckland theatre, his
“AIDA,” AT SYDNEY HER MAJESTY’S.
The King of Egypt (Nino Marotta) gives victorious Radnmes (Francesco Merli ) a
welcome home in grand-opera style.
job being to shuffle around in front of the
house in the garb of an aged hobo. With
chrome make-up and white crepe whiskers
he certainly looked as though the world had
deserted him —but it hadn’t. One dear old
lady, who wouldn’t go inside a theatre on
account of her soul, took pity on him and
gave him two shillings “to buy food, you
poor man,” and altogether Charlie averaged
Is. 6d. per diem in contributions during the
run of the picture.
“Ancient Prompter” : Edgar Wallace is a
good friend to actors —his pieces invari-
ably have a long cast. At present there
are three Wallace plays on view in London’s
West End —“The Yellow Mask” (musical
comedy), at His Majesty’s; “The Squeaker,”
at the Apollo; and “The Flying Squad,” at
the Lyceum. The first-named naturally re-
quires a large number of principals and
chorus. The others —detective dramas of
“The Ringer” type—have no less than 58
speaking parts between them. Local mum-
mers should be in for a good time when these
things come here.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : The greatest surprise
of the Opera season has been the advent of
a new Italian soprano, who made a quite
unusual success as Madame Butterfly. Covent
Garden was packed. The Royal box was
occupied by Princess Beatrice, whose guests
included Lord Richard Nevill. The name
of the new star is Rosetta Pampanini, who,
in addition to being a most artistic singer
with a phenomenal voice, is an actress of
rare accomplishment and with an attractive
appearance. Ernest Newman says her
Butterfly is the best he has ever seen; which
is rather astonishing when one recalls his
admiration for the great Emmy Destinn.
The voice is very like that of Amy Castles,
but without the ravishing velvety quality of
the Victorian soprano, who, however, in
the matter of acting would have to play a
very small part to the Italian. Borgioli’s
Pinkerton seemed only mildly interesting
beside the vivid heroine of Pampanini.
“Morita”: Italy is trying a new ven-
ture —grand opera in the open air. In the
Great- Square at San Marco, a company
under the leadership of Signor Mascagni
is to give “Pagliacci,” “La Bohfeme,”
“Faust” and “Cavalleria Rusticana” from
a stage which measures 1500 square yards.
The chorus totals 150. and has been selected
from all parts of Italy, and there is an
orchestra of 100 players.
“J.D.”: The Festival Theatre of Cam-
bridge styles itself the most progressive in
England, and one month’s bill of fare cer-
tainly supports the claim: “The Pretenders”
(Ibsen), “The Devil’s Disciple” (Shaw),
“The Riding to Littlend” (Bottomly), “A
Royal Audience” (Gray), “Lilion” (Mol-
nar), “The Emperor Jones” and “The
Dreamy Kid” (O’Neill), “Adam the Crea-
tor” (Capck) and “The Birds” (Aristo-
phanes). One would want a pretty good
digestion to absorb that lot in a month.
“Shop”: I have an old Havre programme
giving pre-war records of some of the stars
of one war-time concert party. Among the
varied crew were Colonel Davis, pianist and
composer; Gunner Hagen, one-time manager
of tliq Brisbane Empire; lvlimo, who had
appeared on the boards throughout Australia
' for 15 years: G. Davies, an ex-chorister with
J. C. Williamson; A. Davis, who toured
Australia with Fullers’; and Compaan, a
trick-cyclist showman. One wonders how
many of the old crowds are facing the foot-
lights to-day. My only personal remem-
brance of a war-time performer still carrying
on is V. Sellers, who came back from the
other side with Rene Maxwell’s party, later
understudied and played in Sydney the part
of the Lilac Domino, and now sees the Aus-
tralian States under Fuller management.
“Bi”: James Lindsay still struts the
boards in Melbourne and suburbs. The
debonair and polished old actor is play-
ing in an English movie, “The Rat,” with the
beauteous Ivor Novello as lead. Lindsay
years ago wrote in my autograph book: “ ’Tis
a windy world, and I but a feather in it.”
Wonder if he ever thought he’d blow so
far to end his days?
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : The new revue
at the Hippodrome, “That’s a Good Girl,”
is a joyous affair with lots of catchy tunes
and fine dancing. Jack Buchanan’s six feet
of handsome and athletic manhood is well
shown off in a clever burlesque operatic trio,
in which the lady is Vera Pearce, who shares
in the all-round success of the production.
Vera looks at her best, and her voice stands
well the demands which the performance
makes. As a tempestuous prima donna she
delighted the house by her excellent comedy.
“O. Kay”: The language used by the men
principals in “What Price Glory?” was
viciously blue, as lip readers who saw it will
agree. Which reminds that strong language,
considered necessary in some films, forms
an obstacle to the talking movie. The lan-
guage censor will not very well be able to
cut out one or a number of words from a
sentence, but will probably have to reject
the whole film, so one little word might
settle thousands of feet of celluloid.
“Hamfat”: Wilkie’s success in Newtown
has caused other eyes te turn towards the
Majestic, once the home of raw melodrama
and cruder comedy. Alfred Gordon proposes
to stage Schiller’s “The Robbers” there when
the Sliakspearean season finishes, and, lead-
ing a partly amateur co., may follow with
others. Gordon, wdiose real name is Ivaimik-
off, is a versatile actor whose “Hamlet” at
the Conservatorium was a good performance.
He subsequently toured through sub-metro-
politan towns with “Abie’s Irish Rose,” reap-
ing many shekels for the Fullers.
“A.G.M.” (Loud.) : Australian friends
who remember Frank Merrick’s fine work
on one of Clara Butt’s tours will be glad
of his success in a competition organised by
the Columbia Gramophone Co. in celebration
of the Schubert centenary. Merrick, who
is now a professor at the Royal College of
Music, Manchester, divided the first prize in
the British section —£150 —through his con-
tribution of two completing movements to
Schubert’s “Unfinished Symphony.” An
international jury will consider all the com-
petitions at Vienna in July. '
. “Hamfat”: Jenny Golder, the Australian
girl who committed suicide recently, made a
continental name for herself before slip
decided to cut short her career. She left
here as a girl of 12, 15 years ago, after a
few child appearances, and, having the gift
of tongues, became as popular in Berlin and
Paris as in London. The Australian Tivoli
circuit had booked her for a tour, and was
expecting her arrival shortly.
“Peter Pan”: Avery Hopwood, drowned
the other day while bathing near Nice, has
been more largely represented on the Aus-
tralian stage than any other Yankee play-
wright. We first met him through the
farce “Seven Days,” staged by Hugh
Ward with Maud Chetwynd and Celia
Ghiloni in the cast. In this piece
he collaborated with Mary Roberts
Rhinehart; also in “The Bat.” Muriel
Starr showed his “Nobody’s Widow"
(played in London by Doris Keane
under the name of “Roxana”), and
“Fair and Warmer” brought bim in
big Australian royalties; it was re-
vived in Brisbane last month by Nellie
Bramley. One of his earliest pieces ;
“The Alarm Clock,” was the attrac-
tion last Christmas at the Melbourne
Athenaeum. His royalties (estimated
to bring him in £50,000 a year) no
doubt prevented him from being seri-
ously perturbed when his last farce,
“Our Little Wife,” played at the
London Comedy in May, proved the
greatest flop of the year, coming off
after three nights.
“A.C.”: Did Italians help swell the
opera houses in Melbourne? I went
into the Town Hall to book gallery
seats at Fullers’, and almost every fruit and
fish ship in Melbourne was represented in
the queue. And at each of the three operas
I attended I was in the centre of a Little
Italy.
“L.H.P.”: Allan Wilkie is the first to pro-
duce “All’s Well That Ends Well” in Syd-
ney. Harry Edwards first produced it in
Australia at the Theatre Royal, Ballarat,
on May 23, 1564. It is a poor play, Parolles,
the star personage, having only one scene
worth anything.
“R. Volt”: The Firm spoils the effect of
many of its most expensive stage settings by
using primitive electrical equipment. Though
there are plenty of silent switches available
nowadays, the eeriness of a recent ghost
scene, otherwise carefully built up, was
ruined by the bang, audible in all parts of
the house, with which the spook made its
disappearance. Also, anybody who has seen
real fireflies bejewelling an ’ Oriental night
must have shuddered at the first act of
“Madame Butterfly,*’ in which half a dozen
large green bulbs, bigger than the Nagasaki
lighthouse, flicked on and off with a click
loud enough to be heard above the fullest
orchestra.
“I. Phelps”: A unique distinction has be-
fallen Paul Dresser, who in his heyday as
a song-writer inspired people to bombard
bim variously with bricks and roses. A
New York publisher has issued an expensive
edition de luxe of all his tootles (some 50
or more), giving special prominence to his
favorite. “On the Banks of the Wabash."
The greatest feature, however, is a solemn
foreword by Dresser’s brother, who turns
out to be the famous Theodore Dreiser, and
is obviously proud of the connection. It
was Paul’s own wish, it seenns. to change
his name to Dresser, so that his compara-
tively low fame as a sonf* rhymester should
not embarrass the novelist.
GIVING TOE SHOW AWAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I think when I lose the voice, I go in for
vaudeville.” —Toti dal Monte.
The balladist sings of liis mother’s ’air,
i The serio-chronic her blather spills;
Their voices are boomed as “beyond com-
pare,”
Though mainly they squawk like the fowls
you kill.
And this is the joke of the whole affair —
A voice is not needed in vaudeville.
The top-note that thrilled in a younger day
May wear to a sound like a siren’s scream,
The voice’s clarity pass away;
But there stays a refuge to give you still
A star-boomed job on colossal pay—
For a voice is not needed in vaudeville.
“Polite’s” the title that they bestow
On the vaudeville that we know to-day,
So we smile at the weary jokes we know,
And clap the singer we’d like to kill.
Oh, Toti, you're giving away the show,
That a voice is not needed in vaudeville!
N.S.W.
HAMEAT.


EXSI
Now Available
New Models
SUPER
SIX
Beautiful from every angle—
THE SEDAN, 4-Door, is larger and roomier,
with form-fitting seats, wider doors, rich
upholstery and
appointments.
Sturdy in every part-mu coupe
has wide seat, ample luggage space in the
rear deck, and a comfortable
leather dickey seat
which is re-
movable.
Comfortable on every road —
THE COACH is longer, wider, roomier—
a full size five-seater Super-Six, as distinc-
tive in appearance
as it is practical.
Details of the new models
New size bodies—larger, longer,
wider, inside and out.
Higher radiator with vertical lac-
quered radiator shutters.
Colonial type headlamps and saddle
lamps.
Silenced body construction.
Wider doors, for easy entry and exit.
Electro-lock type of theft protection
used in high-priced cars.
Fine grade patterned velour uphol-
stery.
Wider, higher, form-fitting seats.
New instrument board, finished in
polished ebony, grouping motomet-
er, ammeter, speedometer, fuel and
oil gauges.
Starter button on instrument board.
Steering wheel of black hard rubber
with steel core.
Four-wheel brakes.
Full size balloon tyres.
Worm and tooth design steering
mechanism.
Rubber-matted running board,
.a
i
r
2*
m
W
«**•
«***
w
■r
ZM
r '
*f x S~
&$«
'' /' '* a*»
ONE LOOK at the new Essex Super-Six
will convince you that it will excel in
popularity the Essex which has just
completed the most successful year ever
achieved by a six-cylinder car.
From radiator to tail light it is a smarter, more
beautiful car than even the Essex which pre-
ceded it. And in performance it surpasses in
smoothness, reliability, speed and ease of han-
dling, the standard Essex owners are so proud
to acclaim.
You get an impression of completeness and
fine quality in the design of every detail. From
the new pattern Colonial lights—the higher,
narrower radiator with vertical shutters—the
heavy sweeping mudguards the rubber-
covered running boards—the new improved
steering mechanism and the steering wheel
similar in design and construction to that now
used on the very latest and highest priced cars
—there is outstanding reason for pride.
The new Essex is on display at all Hudson-
Essex dealers. Ride in one—drive one—and
you will immediately appreciate the outstand-
ing qualities of which all Essex owners are so
proud. The new prices are amazingly low.
ESSEX.
Tourer, Australian Body £270
Roadster, ~ ~ 270
Coach, „ ~ 330
Coach, Imported Body 350
Coupe, ~ ~ (Rumble Seat) 365
Sedan, Australian Body 345
Sedan, Imported Body 370^
Five Balloon
Tyres
Standard
Equipment.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DISTRIBUTORS;
DALGETY & CO., LTD., NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney. Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
MOTORS, LIMITED, AUTOS, LTD.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide. Hay Street, Perth.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD., H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane. Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


f
I
p
ion
qccii
aa
a.
fo
r cmds
m
Combining rest and recreation in just the right proportion,
the health-giving sea voyage to Fiji will delight you. In less
than 5 days from Sydney you reach the island port of Suva,
and enjoy 3 full days ashore before the return voyage.
The launch excursions up the Rewa River and inside the
barrier reefs, and the visits to the plantations and quaint
thatch-roofed villages, will prove unique among your travel
experiences. Fishing for fighting sea-fish off the Fiji reefs is
a thrilling sport.
Your days aboard ship will be equally memorable. Commodious and
steady, Matson Oceanic liners are notable for excellence of cuisine
and service. Music for dancing, and novel entertainment features
enliven the voyage.
Fares: Sydney to Suva, first class single from £l7; second class
single from £l3; first class return from £3O; second class return
from £22. Available for six months. Illustrated booklets free on
request.
All Inclusive Tours to Fiji, £42. Folder on Application.
S.S. SIERRA. S.S. SONOMA. S.S. VENTURA.
Sailing every third Saturday.
the ©
&
LIN
mm
12 Bridge Street, Sydney. D
u? c n- A & nts: McUwraith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 William St., Melbourne; 117-119 Kin
Wilham St., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth and Albany; Howard Smith Limited. Brisbane
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
asdf
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
1
•JNI
C Cl AT V?
80885
»
QUINTETTE IN E FLAT
MAJOR PART I
<l»t Monminl) Allegro brlllanto
Schumann, Op. <4)
E. ROBERT SCHMITZ. WITH
PHILHARMONIC STRING
\ QUARTET OF
NEW YORK
WJ
ma
m
l 18051
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
mm
m
am
Wholesale Only;
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 864-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Close-ill) music
triumphant
Astounding fidi&omc Records of
the Schumann Quintet
“A Paradise of Beauty” it has Been called —“the finest of
its kind since Beethoven’s day.” “Ecstatic inspiration,
lofty expression, noble feeling, wealth of imagination,
freshness and a happy issue are here united in a rare
decree” says another critic.
It has remained for Edison’s “Close-up Music” to do
justice to this magnificent composition. Never before
have you heard chamber music so crisp and sparkling —
so fascinating in its realism. A truly refreshing draught
for life’s dull days.
Here is the living Schumann himself, imperishably
engraven.
Call and hear these epoch-making records —
2Vbs. 80885 and 80886—price 9/- each —
as they are brought to life by the
astounding Edisonic.
ftfoonic
SYDNEY: The Edison Shop, 51 Castlereagh
Street.
MELBOURNE: The Edison Shop, 238 Collins
Street.
BRISBANE: W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd.,
86-88 Queen Street.
HOBART: A. Paton and Sons, 136 Liverpool
Street.
LAUNCESTON: Wills and 00., Pty. Ltd.
7 Quadrant.
ADELAIDE: S.A. Phonograph Co., Ltd.,
Gilbert Buildings, Gilbert Place.
Metropolitan Distributors:
PERTH: Phonographs, Ltd., 671 Hay Street.
Wertheims, 84 Rundle Street.


3FSSTS
r&
IForAA
Standard
for Watch Integrity
Slender, graceful, accurate—every tiny wheel
and cog made with unusual care. So wafer-
like that it slips into your pocket almost un-
noticed. ELGIN is conceded to be the
world’s standard for watch integrity and to
such efficiency is wedded beauty of design.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
&lc/iri
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCE AND EFFICIENCY
Jhi? Jrade Mark in the Watch (a?e
ei
The Cigar of generous size and weight.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/C (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted'46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free.
a
kVv*:
I
CRAIG and AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital £lOO,OOO
Issued Capital 49,161
Paid-up Capital 30,234
Investments in Canberra Are
Directors:
John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
W. G. Woodger, Esq.; S. J. Goulston, Esq.;
It. G. H. Joseland, Esq.
Free of State Income Tax.
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
L. G. FUSSELL, General Manager.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
/>
Ike hand that holds
the" VENUS"
plans the World
he first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
17 Biacklead Degrees 68-9 H sd. each - 4/9 per dozen, Super Copying (Medium & Hard) 6a
each - 5/9 per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium s. Hard) 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Liam O’Flaherty’s new book, “The
Assassin,” is dedicated to—his creditors!
* * * *
“Tarago”: Touching the disappearance of
Kirk’s Horse Bazaar from Bourke-street
West, Melbourne (B. 20/6/’2B). The curved
iron and girders of the main entrance are
now sheltering tin Lizzies from the elements
at Streeter’s garage, Bunyip.
* * * *
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : The north end of
Regent-street, overlooking the Queen's Hall,
is now getting quite an Australian atmo-
sphere. For here is Canberra House, with
its spacious areas, one floor of which is in
the occupation of David Jones; and almost
directly opposite are the equally extensive
premises of a Melbourne house.
•Is * !|! *
“Soblc”: The reason why “Boronia” (B.
27/6/’2B) couldn’t get Australian whisky
in nine out of
twelve Westralian
country pubs is not
hard to find. A
bottle of Scotch at
9s. wholesale re-
turns Bung 21s.— -
a profit of almost
7d. on each meticu-
lously measured
quarter gill. Aus-
tralian, at about
6s. wholesale, sells
at 9d. a nobbier —
a fraction over sd.
profit. Bun g ’3
overhead expenses
in handling both
Scotch and Austra-
lian are the same,
and when, as is the
case more often
than not, his pub
is the only one in
the township, he
can’t see the force
of' foregoing the
extra 3s. or so that
Scotch brings him
per bottle. And
anyhow, the ~aver-
age Westralian
isn’t educated up
to demanding Aus-
tralian whisky as
yet, though he will be in time. He is a good
customer for Australian brandy at Is. a
nip.
* * * *
“Salambo”: A sample of Fuller’s earth
from Whangarei (M.L.) on being analysed
in England by the Imperial Institute was
found to be equal to the English article of
the best quality, especially for bleaching
edible oils and fats. Another industry that
may prove profitable is the extraction of
wax from peat occurring in the Chatham
Islands. Samples submitted to expert brokers
were valued at about £25 per tou c.i.f. U.K.
The brokers estimated that from 500 to 2000
tons could be taken yearly. And the residue
is a useful fuel.
* s|: * *
“Wrash”: The unemployed man in the
country is much better off than the city out-
of-work. Rabbit-skins and carcases are
always saleable, and there are still rabbits
THE SILVER
LINING.
CHEERIM (after the wreck): “Well, Sandy, things could
have been worse!”
SANDY: “Aye, mon; Ah micht have bought a return
teecket!”
in plenty. Good prices are paid for game
birds by agents for city restaurants. With
a license, wattle-bark may be stripped, and
it is worth up to £9 per ton. Charcoal, for
which there is a regular demand, may be
raked up in any forest through which a bush-
fire has gone. Most sheepmen readily give
permission to gather dead wood, and will
pay for it on delivery at the shed. More-
over, bones collected from the paddock can
be sold at up to £5 a ton to the mills.
* * * *
“Mount Arthur”: Re lavender grown at
Lilydale (Tas.). The oil must be distilled
while the flowers are fresh, and this was
done at Lilydale by C. K. Denny with a
small still. The oil was sent to England,
and on 22/10/’25 C. T. Bennett, oil analyst,
London, reported that it is equal to good
French lavender oil, and worth 275. per lb.
on the English market. The oil has not,
however, been put on the market, but sachets
of the flowers are being sold in Australia
and other parts of the world. Sixteen acres
are under cultivation, and the home of this
unusual industry is visited by tourists from
all parts of the Commonwealth.
:J i :\i ❖ *
“Clerk”: Having just carted his heaviest
single parcel—a 48-ton stator for Yallourn
—Chief Commissioner Clapp the other day
handled the longest article that ever
sprawled itself on railway property south
of the Murray. It was a bridge girder
from Charles Ruwolt’s, consigned to the
railway construction branch at Yarrawonga:
it measured 100 ft. from end to end and
weighed 28 tons. Three specially fitted QR
trucks coupled together were required to
support its attenuated length. Vaughan,
who landed the job of bringing the girder to
the railway behind several motor-trucks,
had to secure special permission to labor
thrpugh the city streets at four o’clock in the
morning. Three other girders of the same
size are expected to follow.
THE HOME DEPARTMENT.
“Can you remember whether you had one or two eggs for
breakfast last Monday week, dear? I’m threepence out in
my month’s accounts.”
“Bad Australian”: “W.0.C1” ip right
(B. 13/6/’2B) in his contention that
iron sleepers would put an effective stop
to the depredations of white ants, but in
some classes of country the metal sleeper
suffers as much from the action of mineral
salts in the soil as the wooden support does
from white ants. Also, when a derailment
occurs every sleeper from the point of de-
railment to where the train is brought to
a standstill is put out of business, as the
thin plate in the pressed steel sleeper and
the light tie-bar of the “spot” offer no effec-
tive resistance to the weight of a loaded
waggon. The concrete sleeper is as effec-
tive against white ants as steel or iron,
and as far as my experience goes it is
equally so against the action of mineral
salts.
* * * *
“H.E.R.” : How long does bulked cement
take to thoroughly dry after being soaked
through? When my family
kept the old Ship Inn at
Rockhampton (Q.), 25 solid
barrels of soaked and dried
cement lay in the adjoining
vacant allotment. They had
long since lost their wooden
jackets, and were bleached
white with years of weather.
My brother and I decided to
dissect one. After taking
three days to pierce the outer
crust of about two inches
.with a miner’s drill, we
found the going softer until,
near the middle, we ran into
puddle. It smelt like a
million crushed cockroaches.
* * *
“William”: The Yilgarn
district topped the wheat
average for W.A. last season
with 18 bushels from 66,000
acres. This was phenomenally
good, and has caused some
unwarranted optimism. How-
ever, the district is good
enough provided the right
methods are used. An inter-
esting departure from ordi-
nary practice is light seed-
ing : one farmer planted 151 b.
of seed per acre, and actually
reaped bushels ! Super,
is also sown light. The sea-
son before last many stripped
from 10 to 15 bushels, all
scratched-in crops. With re-
gard to rainfall, Southern
Cross has averaged 10.61
inches per annum over a
period of 3S years, approxi-
mately 7| inches of it be-
tween April and October.
The further south you go
from Southern Cross the bet-
ter the rainfall, so much of
the country between Yilgarn
and Ravensthorpe should be
as reliable as old-established districts.
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: The community buying re-
cently adopted at Canberra reminds me of
an experience in Broken Hill. Truckloads
of vegetables came from S.A. once or twice
a week, and were auctioned near the sta-
tion. As the lots were generally too large
for the average family, the people went
marketing in groups. . One bought) mar-
rows, another cabbages, a third a sack of
beans or peas; and then, by a friendly sys-
tem of bartering, the pile of greens was
distributed among the group. Women got
bargains in that way, and if they collected
too many swedes and carrots, the surplus
was buried in a sand patch in the back
yard and drawn upon -as required. One
result of community buying at an auc-
tion mart was that there wasn’t much oppo-
sition in the bidding.


with other cars
. Bar none
In all the brilliant chronicle of Chrysler,
no car has so keenly delighted a great and
growing host of owners as the Illustrious
New Chrysler “72”—a car so remarkable
in quality and performance that, at its low
price, nothing like its value can be found
anywhere.
In triumphant march from 27th
to 3rd place in sales in 42 months, the
“72” has played a most
significant part.
In the Illustrious New
Chrysler “72” longer,
roomier, faster, hand-
somer Chrysler Stand-
ardised Quality excels
even Chrysler in per-
formance, in comfort, in
appearance, in appoint-
ments.
The 75 horse-power en-
gine with counter-
weighted seven-bearing
crankshaft delivers 72
and more miles an hour
with ease. It flashes in-
stantly away in traffic.
Equipped with rubber
shock insulators in place of metal shackles,
it rides with a new measure of comfort,
safety, and smoothness over the roughest
roads*
Test the Illustrious New “72” in every con-
ceivable manner* Then you will appreciate
just how much wider is the gap which the
Chrysler “72” places between itself and all
other cars selling for much higher prices*
VTT?
vv
4^
%•
v
■ ; -V.-
tm
m
A Few Chrysler “72” Features of Quality and Long Life —
Invar Steel Strut Pistons
Silchrome Valves
Oil Purifier
Thermostatic Heat
Control
Air Cleanser
Full Pressure Oiling
System
4-Wheel Hydraulic
Brakes
Pivotal Steering
Levelisers on Front and
Rear Springs
Headlamp Control on.
Steering Wheel
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney ,
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne .
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
7as.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart
N.Z. Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington


World’s Pigeon Championship.
Melbourne Gun Club, July 6, 1928.
Ist. W. BAULDERSTONE (S.A.).
3rd. “CALROSSIE” (Vic.).
Both used
W. W. GREENER
GUNS.
There is no better
. Shooting Gun made.
Wholesale Representatives’.
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
Don't wish for the Best—get it.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
AN OLD “SPOT” MELLOWED BY AGE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney.
[4.
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address;
“Usherotel, Sydney.’*
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Henare and Nyangay, who had both run
prominently at the Grand National meeting
without actually winning, took the jumping
double at Caulfield on Saturday, and broke
course records in the process. Henare had 13
opponents in the Leamington Hurdle and
was favorite, with Nobility, at 9 to 2. Etta-
mogah (8 to 1) and Llanthony ran off at
the fii'st hurdle—poor old Llanthony is surely
due for retirement—and Sir Alogy (10 to 1)
took charge. With five furlongs to go Sir
Alogy was leading from Henare, who had
moved up smartly, Migrant and Nobility.
Cutting the leader down, Henare was first
into the straight, and a faulty jump at the
last hurdle did not check him to any serious
extent; he was an easy winner from Sir
Alogy and Mount Pleasant (5 to 1), who
came home well. Nobility fell three hurdles
from home. Henare, who appeal's to be
thriving on his racing, was ridden by Hughie
Cairns, and with lOst. 121 b. in the Australian
Hurdle —51b. less than he carried on this
occasion—is already strongly fancied. The
time—4min.—was better than the pre-
vious best time for two miles one furlong and
65 yards over the sticks.
Nyangay’s performance was even more
striking in its way than that of the honest
All Black gelding. He was always favorite
for the Godfrey Watson Steeple, but Min-
terne was so heavily backed (down to fives)
that the bookmakers offered 7 to 2 Nyangay,
who never looked better; Gulyarri and
Urbani (6 to 1) were also in request. Min-
terne was in front for a time, but when Mc-
Innes let Nyangay have his head, the favorite
rushed past the Sydney horse. Giving a
very fine exhibition of fencing, the big Varco
gelding was never again headed. Secret
Stone (12 to 1) made a fast run at the
back of the course and was within three
lengths of Nyangay at the half-mile post, but
the favorite increased his lead round the
home turn, and won, pulling up, by five
lengths; Lanage (20 to 1) deprived the tir-
ing Secret Stone of second place, Minterne
finishing last. Nyangay carried 12st. 21b.
—he has 41b. less in the Australian Steeple
—and clipped 4fsec. off the previous record
for “about” two miles and three furlongs, his
time being 4min. 35sec. He is certainly a
great steeplechaser.
Ragazzo is pretty good at a mile and a
quarter, but another furlong is evidently be-
yond him. Reported to have done well since
his Flemington victory, he was backed like
a certainty for the Murrumbeena Handicap,
7 to 4 being the best on offer when Otway
Falkiner, Godby and their followers had
ceased betting. Mountain Prince and Green-
ray (7 to 2), Wallarak (sevens) and
Batteryman (eights) were others with good
support. Spearset (12 to 1) tried to make
a runaway race of it, and nearly succeeded,
but, challenging him resolutely at the dis-
tance, Battcryman beat him by a neck; Ata-
man (12 to 1) was third and Ragazzo last.
“Tich” Wilson rode the old Lanius gelding,
who deserved his success. The time was 2min.
21sec., by no means first-class; and Ragazzo’s
Caulfield Cup chance looks very poor now.
Jack Holt had something for his followers
to bet on in the Kambrook Trial—the
Woorak —Queen Battery colt Woorgun, a
half-brother to Batteryman. Evens it was
when McSliortodds closed his book, and the
plunge was successful; the favorite drew
away from Tragedy King (10 to 1) in the
last 50 yards and easily accounted for that
gelding, iCordofan (20 to 1) being next.
Woorgun is owned by studmaster Gerald
Buckley, and is sure to be heard of again.
Thus far it had been a good day for punters,
but most of them missed Vinstra, winner of
the last race, the Malvina Welter, for which
the Lucknow —Auraria’s Daughter gelding
was quoted at eights. First away, Vinstra
was never headed; Bcrmosca (15 to 1) was
second and New Hope (15 to 1) third. Cairns
had the mount on this relative to that good,
though unlucky, horse El Dorado.
* :!: --I: =>=
Sydney had a foretaste of spring on Sat-
urday, but those who went to the Canterbury
Park races were too intent on chasing their
losses to give it proper appreciation. Though
favorites succeeded in the two divisions of
the Nursery Handicap (one was the very
promising Rossendale —Cragrose gelding
Magnetic) and another shared the honors in
the Canterbury Handicap, the Hurdle Race
went to a 12-to-l chance, Jubilee, the Flying
Handicap to a 20-to-l shot, Platonic, and
the Club Welter (last race) to a nag that
was 16 to 1 in a field of eight, Algerian
Prince. When horses win at these prices on
suburban courses it generally means that
there are “skinners” for most of the book-
makers. Moreover there was very little
money for N.M.E. (10 to 1), who ran away
with a division of the Maiden Welter.
OVER THE ODDS.
“Worraliaryar (hie)! Never was (hie) fish that long in this (hie) puddle."
Following McCarten would have been profit-
able, for that Maoriland rider was on Chry-
lyssa (2 to 1) and Deadiglit (7 to 1), two out-
right winners, and Rawhetu (7 to 2), who
broke even with Nan Kourgan (2 to 1) in
the Canterbury Handicap. He made his
run very late on Rawhetu, and it looked
as if the other jockey, Ellis, had been too
smart for him. Greengrocer, also from Maori-
land and said to be uncommonly good, proved
a dreadful disappointment in Algerian
Prince’s race, for which he saw evens.
* * * *
For Roseliiil on Saturday:—
Auburn Handicap: Quince; next, Less
Noise.
Juvenile Handicap: Markdenms.
Rydalmere Mile: Newfire; next, Zuleika.
Club Handicap: Prime Don; next, The
Lance.
* * * *
“Ula” : L. Iv. S. Mackinnon has sent his
mare Susie’Pye to England; she is to be
served by Call Boy to English time. _ The
enterprise (not the first of its kind) is inter-
esting breeders, and since both prads are
possessed of stamina a stayer is to be ex-
pected from the mating. Susie Pye (Wal-
lace Isinglass-Radesia) won several races
in Vic., the most important being an 11-
furlongs handicap at Caulfield.
* * * *
“Adelaide” : A new terror has been added
to race-going by the conviction of a man
for the crime of passing money to a person
in a queue at the totalisator window at
Victoria Park, S.A., with the request to
“Get me a No. 1, will you." He said in
court that he is a person whom the police
will not leave alone”; also that there ar
not many people on a course who couldn t
have been arrested for saving themselves a
squash in the same way. On the first state-
ment there is no evidence, but the second is
a solid fact.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
People who go to the Sydney Stadium
don’t want anything but wrestling, real or
alleged, this winter, and although the boxers
on Saturday night were the heavyweight
champion of Australia, George Thompson
(12st. lO^lb.), and Jack Elliott (list.
10Mb.), who had distinguished lnmselt by
knocking out “Battling” Ryan in short order,
the attendance was miserably poor. With lus
great advantage in weight, Thompson pro-
ceeded to make it very willing. In the first
round he butted the Englishman in the face,
and Jack thereafter had difficulty with las
breathing apparatus. As a fact, the handicap
of a stone was trebled by the penalty of a
smashed nose, and it was little wonder that
Elliott tried repeatedly to chuck Thompson
into -the front seats. Once, in the eleventh
round, he was successful; _he bundled his
man over the middle rope into the laps of
several directors and added to the shock by
falling after him. This vastly amused the
irreverent and disconcerted the occupants of
the seats of the mighty. Thompson got the
verdict on points. But steps will have to
be taken to prevent boxers picking up the
mannerisms of so-callpd wrestlers.
“Mitt Sliover”: The listening earth is
eagerly waiting to hear the story of the
Heeney-Tunney fight, which comes off to-
morrow bar accidents. Tunney is a strong
favorite, but that signifies nothing; Cor-
bett, Jeffries, Johnson and Dempsey were
also favorites for the fights in which they
lost their titles. On actual form, the
Maorilander must be given a first-class
chance. As a boxer he may be inferior to
Tunney, but he is just as stiff a puncher and
is certainly more rugged. Best of all, he has
been fighting constantly during the past two
years, while Tunney has had two 10-rounders.
Boxing history show’s that the champion
who has indulged in a long lie-off, however
well he may have looked after himself,
usually sees his title leave him at his next
entry into the ring. This may happen to-
morrow.
* * * *
The biggest crowd of the season was
drawn to Melbourne Stadium by the meeting
of John Kilonis (12st. 81b.) and Ad. Santel
(13st.). Ear-biting, hair-pulling and punch-
ing were indulged in by the Greek in the
process of living up to his reputation as a
wild man. After attempting to throw Ad.
over the ropes and finding himself deposited
there instead, the ferocious person hurled the
hats of several pressmen far into the audi-
ence. Later he viciously threw a small sheet
of some pressman’s paper at John Brennan,
Santel’s manager, but fortunately this dan-
gerous missile failed to travel the distance.
Biting Ad. on the flank to secure freedom
from a scissors and arm-bar was another
Kilonis stunt. Presently John was thrown
from the ring, and on returning he raved
and punched like ah infuriated circus down.
In the fourth round, after having allowed
the Greek still greater liberties, the referee
took belated action, awarding Santel a pen-
alty fall. Twice in the fifth round Santel
did good work with a sfiort-arm scissors,
but on each occasion he allowed the Greek
to escape through the ropes. In the seventh,
after attempting his Boston crab, the Greek
was trussed up by his head and legs into a
perfect cradle and easily pinned.
Footbrawl
Golden was the afternoon, soft and springy
the turf and satisfactory the “gate’’ when
the Westralian footballers filed out of their
dressing-room to meet the Victorians on the
Melbourne C. G. Ten minutes of play suf-
ficed to show that they had no hope, and
after the first quarter, which closed with the
Dark Blues owning 47 points to the West-
ralians’ 1, the multitude (34,000 it num-
bered) had lost its enthusiasm. The rout
ended with Victoria, 15 goals 20 behinds;
W.A., 6 goals 9 behinds. The visitors marked
fairly well, but lacked direction in. passing
and anticipation. Their main excuse is that
they are largely young and inexperienced, a
fault that time will correct. Veteran Out-
ridge strove valiantly; Western, Gosnells,
Hopkins, Owens and Leonard shone at times ;
several others were short of training. The
Vies, played methodically without distressing
themselves.
* * * *
“Hotham”: A curious situation cropped
up in Melbourne football recently. A Foots-
cray player turned out in the match against
Melbourne wearing an aluminium shield on
his knee. The thing was hinged, and the
hinge formed a protruding knot. Six Mel-
bourne players were injured, and two at
least bore signs of having come in contact
.with the metal protuberance. The Melbourne
captain protested at half-time, but the umpire
would take no action, as there was nothing
in the rules to guide him, and further re-
fused to ask the gentleman from Footscray
to doff his armor plate. Under Rugby and
Soccer rules, anyone appearing on the field
wearing metal spikes, or metal in any form,
can be bundled off instanter. The failure of
the Australian body to provide a similar
penalty is on all fours with its refusal to
empower its umpires to order a foul or brutal
player off the ground.
* * if
Though the N.S.W. Rugby Union side for
Melbourne was by no means at full strength,
few expected Victoria to give it such a tough
go in the inter-State match at Carlton on
Saturday. The visitors got home by 22 points
(5 tries and 3 goals) to 19 (3 tries, 3 goals
and a field goal). The Victorians, led by the
old N.S.W. player Reg Lane, played rattling
good football; in Murray, a full, and Sturt-
ridge and Woodbury at half, they have three
exceptional backs, as well as a couple of
fine forwards in Wellers and McCowan.
Burke played a great game at full-back for
N.S.W., while Malcolm and Gregor George,
behind the pack, showed the 5000 spectators
some brilliant Rugby football. Munsie, the
North-Western forward, played finely in the
pack.
(Continued on page 41.)
“Brassey”: There have been complaints
lately that many so-called Australian-made
golf clubs are such in name only. Some of
the professionals still offer a genuine article;
others import the heads and shafts ready-
made and, after fitting them together, mark
them as Australian. A further objection is
that much of the imported stuff is machined,
and the gadget has nlot yet been devised
which can turn out a wooden club of the
quality of the faithfully done hand-made
article.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: J. B. Hobbs is issuing a
weekly pronunciamento on the subject of the
coming Australian tour. His latest idea is
that the M.C.C. should send out its own
umpire, and he suggests the one-armed Ches-
ter “who crouches like a cat springing at a
mouse, while fiercely watching each ball.”
Whatever his merits as an umpire may be,
there is no doubt that Mr. Chester’s idio-
syncrasies would be thoroughly appreciated
by the great Australian barracker, who is
swift to seize on any personal peculiarity.
It is not unlikely that after one afternoon’s
experience of the “Hill” on Sydney Cricket
Ground Chester would be _ willing _to re-
nounce umpiring, with or without frills, for
ever and a day.
THE BALLADE OF THE DRANTIC
SCORER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Speaking most strictly, I would say
That, at the lowest, one in four
Is stricken with it aud should stay
Beyond the card-room outer door.
His system holds the deadly spore
Immune to all sarcastic bricks,
And uselessly we beg or roar
“How many tricks? How many tricks.'
For those he takes throughout the play,
Despite all Portland laws and lore,
He muddles like a heap of hay
Or metal in an old-junk store,
And whether he’s down one or more
Or has in hand two, four or six
He never knows. “Oh what’s the score i
Count them again. How many tricks?”
Worse still, when he is but half-way
Through any hand he’ll just ignore
All rules and confidently bray
“The rest are mine.” And down he’ll pour
His cards upon the cloth or floor.
Disputes rage as they intermix;
We yearn to have the sloven’s gore.
“One down? Two up? How many tricks?”
Envoy.
Charon, who must some dreadful day
Ferry his soul across the Styx,
Hold him to make amends we pray
And answer you, “How many tricks?”
S.A.
BILL O'C


JOHN JAMEfON
* ¥ *
WHISKEY
JOHN jameson * * * Whiskey is made in
Dublin, by the old and expensive Pot
Still method—as we made it in 1780.
That’s how we get the flavour, the
glorious smooth John Jameson flavour.
Yet we sell it at the price of an ordinary
whiskey—But taste the difference i
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
B. Seppelt & Sons, Limited .... Melbourne Victoria
Perkins & Co., Ltd Brisbane, Q.
Milne & Co Perth, W.A.
Clean, Rapid, Hygienic
¥
©
(lICTRIC
PRICES FROM
£7/15/- upwards.
COOKING
AT A COST OF
A PENNY PER
PERSON PER
DAY-
Exhaustive tests have proved that
the cost of using a Universal Electric
Range for cooking every meal is
approximately a penny per person
per day! No other cooking appli-
ance selling to-day is so economical in upkeep, and in
addition the Universal Electric Range, with its regu-
lated heat and simple controls, makes the cooking of
even complicated dishes a simple matter. Guaranteed
for twelve months, the Universal Electric Range can
be obtained from any electrician or departmental
store.
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD
Exclusive Factory Representatives and Distributors throughout
Australia for Universal Electric Equipment,
200 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
I
u
(fi
//
sss
M
$35
% o
*%, 6 /'
A' ?
v
*(/.
*Z-„
/j
v>
v /,
, ' <£,, 7 .S'
"V9c o
«& cS= O
°0
\ % °<v
% X X
<Bf CAppointment
to HM THE KING
BOU LTON & PAUL LTD.
Norwich, Eng.
9
HOME LIGHTING
AND POWER PLANT
SOLID British weight and worth are built into Electolite.
No light and flimsy parts that must be replaced after very
little service. No chattering, whirling, high-speed engine that
cannot last for long.
The generator of the Electolite plant is driven by a slow-speed,
heavily-built petrol engine. Its steady pulsing beat tells of
ample power to answer every demand. It supplies electricity
not only for lighting, but also for operating an electric iron,
vacuum cleaner, refrigerator, milking machine, separator,
churn and many other labor-saving devices. Year after year
it works, steadily, efficiently, without strain and fuss and
trouble. A child can be given full charge of it, and the cost
of running is often actually less than town electricity. *
When you buy a lighting plant choose a thorough British job
—it costs little, if anything, more than flimsily-built lower-
grade plants. Choose Electolite—the plant the British Army
uses. We shall be pleased to send complete literature on
request. Post the coupon!
EASY TERMS ARRANGED.
EDMUNDS BROS. & CO.
187 a Flinders Lane, Melbourne, G.P.O. Box 683.
154 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. 3 Gilbert Place, Adelaide.
Box D 147 G.P.0., Perth. Box 1139 P G.P.0., Brisbane.
Resident Factary Representative; R. R. Foulser, 154 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


FAME!!
QN merit alone I was selected to supply the
White Trousers for the visiting West Indies
Cricket Team in 1923. In 1926 the Australians
were wearing clothes made by me; also the
New Zealanders in 1927. The West Indian
team playing in Britain this year are wearing
kit exclusively supplied by me.
These celebrated teams are naturally fastidi-
ous over the cut and quality of their clothes.
Are you?
I have been in business now for 25 years and
my Australian clientele is growing rapidly, as
are the number of repeat orders I receive.
The cloth I use is made by the most reputable
manufacturers from the finest Australian Tops.
The cutters I employ are “live” men with
wide experience of British and Colonial tailor-
ing, and the clothes they make are guaranteed
to give satisfaction.
My prices are based on cash payments only,
Lounge Suits, for instance, costing from 7
to 10 guineas.
w. G. JENNINGS,
119 Newgate Street, London, E.G.I.
UQW 1
"After all
there’s only
m ONE 'Australia’ ”
" Every detail of service and conven-
ience is anticipated in this great hotel
with the world-famous name. Write
for beautifully illustrated folder if you
are thinking of coming to Sydney.
Telegraphic, Wireless and Cable Address:
"Austraotel, Sydney.”
t'J
w
A
sdf
(Capital Paid-up, £422,100)
The Hotel
of the Commonwealth,
Sydney.
ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up—Beautiful
lighting effects—A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Caf6 de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place-
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines).
(Also under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
The All Blacks got a bit of their own
back in the second match against Soutn
Africa, winning at Johannesburg by ‘
points to 6. Of the 12 matches played the
Maorilanders have now won 8, lost 3 ana
drawn 1. There are 2 more Test matches
to be played, on August 18 and September
1. *
With many of the cracks in Melbourne, the
Rugby Union games on Saturday lacked
interest. Y.M.C.A., with seven ‘of then-
first team away, rose to the occasion against
Northern Suburbs, and ran out victors by
17 (3 tries and 3 goals) to 14 (4 tries and
1 goal). Glebe-Balmain just got home from
Manly at Uni. oval by 23 to 22, scoring •>
tries and 3 goals to 6 tries and a field goal.
Eric Ford for G.-B. and Louden for the Vil-
lagers each scored 3 tries. University was
too fast for St. George at Hurstville, and
won by 13 to 8, but the Saints’ pack had
the Uni. backs all out in the second halt.
Another close game saw Western Suburbs
defeat East by 18 (4 tries and 2 goals) to
12 (2 tries and 2 goals). Waratah Black-
wood turned out for East and hooked with
success.
* * * *
“Past Grammar” : Sydney University has
sent a Rugby Union side to Brisbane to
assist in the revival of the amateur code
by playing a couple of games against local
sides. Union officials accompanied the team.
It is just 34 years since the Blue-and-Gold
lias been seen in action in the North. Four
matches were played, one against a scratch
team and the others against clubs, the
visitors winning two and losing two. Two
of the Uni. team were H. D. Wood, now
president of the N.S.W. Rugby Union, and
F. S Boyce, Attorney-General.
h= * * N *
“Everton”: The N.S.W. Soccer players
who broke away from the N.S.W. Associa-
tion to found a. League which would permit
open professionalism are weakening. Except
in the Newcastle district they have little
following, and since the League is confined
to N.S.W. inter-State and oversea trips are
not for them. This season they have had
to stand by and watch Association teams
going to Brisbane and to Java. So a con-
ference is being arranged to see whether
some compromise cannot be arrived at.
* * h= *
The third and last match between the
English and Australian Rugby Leaguers,
played in ideal football weather on the Syd-
ney .Cricket Ground, was won by the home
side with 21 points (three tries and six
goals) to 14 (two tries and four goals). The
changes in the Australian side, especially
the inclusion on the wings of Wearing and
Pearce (a three-quarter from the country)
and of the speedy Kingston in the forwards,
made a great difference in the local team,
which was faster on the day. The latter
half of the game was somewhat marred by
punching, one Englishman being ordered off.
Though the Englishmen probably felt the loss
of their injured skipper, Parkin, his place
was well filled by Rees, while Fairclough,
playing his first game in Sydney, proved a
clever five-eighth. There was little to choose
between the forwards of either side: Kings-
ton played a dashing game in the Aus-
tralian pack, as did Sloman and Fildes for
the tourists, but far too much deliberate
loafing offside was allowed by referee Deane
where the English vanguard was concerned.
The winners’ superiority was most marked
in the inside backs. Weissel combined ex-
cellently with Gorman, who was in his best
vein, while Craig was again the keystone
of attack and defence, the pair overshadow-
ing the English centres, Askin and Oliver;
On the right wing Wearing showed all his
old brilliancy, scoring two tries and kicking
three goals. He was much too smart for
Gwynne, and beat full-back Sullivan with
his short kick and sprint on a couple of
occasions. Pearce was almost equally effec-
tive, and his sound tackling kept the flying
Ellaby, for once, out of the picture. Hardy
at full-back was solid, in spite of continual
embarrassment by the English offside tactics.
Sullivan again played finely at full for Eng-
land, and kicked four good goals. The Eng-
lish three-quarter line was colorless, but
Fairclough showed himself a smart oppor-
tunist at five-eighth, and his two tries were
brilliant bits of individualism. The English-
men, who leave for Maoriland on Thursday,
have won 12 of their 17 games, lost four
and drawn one. Gates totalled £32,688, of
which the visitors will take about £19,000.
* * * *
“Robbo” : Harry Sunderland, a well-known
figure in Australian League football circles,
has put forward the sensible suggestion that
seats should be booked in advance for big
games. This practice is universal in Amer-
ica and common in Britain, but in Aus-
tralia it is only to be found in the case of
boxing or wrestling bouts, and then usually
for a circumscribed area only. The N.S.W.
Rugby Union made the experiment for the
Springbok matches in Sydney in 1921, but
in that case the inadaptability of the seat-
ing accommodation on the Agricultural
Ground was found to be a drawback. The
Sydney C. G. presents no such difficulty, and
though the booking idea will not be popular
among showmen who believe in jambing a
ground as full as it will hold, whether the
unhappy spectators can see or not, we will
have to come to it.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: Touching violent football in
Adelaide (B. 18/7/’2B), the S.A.F.L. is
gravely considering the appointment of
special stewards. All that can be done at
present is to report offenders to the League
committee. By the time an umpire’s report
i*eaches this committee feeling over the
breach has cooled, and the offender’s friends,
including the club delegate, have had time
to prepare his defence. If it is decided to
appoint stewards, they should be empowered
to order offenders off the field, after the
fashion of Rugby and Association umpires.
* * h= *
“Fitzcray”: The Vic. Football League is
thinking of having itself registered under the
State Companies Act, and acquiring pre-
mises of its own wherein to take its ease.
The League is supposed to be wealthy, but
as a matter of fact it is little more, in a
financial sense, than a clearing house for the
clubs. It rakes in revenue from delegates’
fees and a 10 per cent, levy on clubs’ receipts,
and pocketed £3348 10s. 4d. from these
sources last year. Expenditure included £BOO
for the secretary, £519135. 9d. on the “car-
nival” team and £3lO 7s. Id. for entertain-
ment ; also rent and lighting cost £264. It is
suggested that delegate fees be increased
from £1 Is. to £4O each, that country affilia-
tion fees be £5 ss. instead of £1 Is., and that
all the gate receipts be pooled as in S. Aus.,
clubs being allotted dividends. The howl
THE ASSOCIATE CADDIE.
that will go up from Carlton and other
well-to-do clubs when this proposition is
tabled is expected to crack the welkin.
Racquet and Bawl
The match between Australia and Ger-
many at Berlin proved something of a dis-
aster for the in-and-out visitors. In the
singles, Hopman was the only player to
score for Austi-alia, beating Stapenhorst 6-3,
4-6, 6-2, 6-2. Jack Crawford went down
to Prenn by 3 sets to 1, while Moldenhauer
put Patterson through in three straight sets.
The pre-war champion, Frotzheim, had to
go harder to beat Hawkes 6-3, (-5,7-5. In
the doubles, Patterson and Hawkes proved
too good for Prenn and Moldenhauer, but
Hopman and Crawford went down to Frotz-
heim and Rahe, both matches running to
four sets.
h= * * *
“Amateur Pro”: The long wrangle over
the player-writer has ended in an old-man
crash, the American L.T.A. having dis-
qualified Tilden for persisting in writing
tennis matter for the press after repeated
warnings. As a result, Tilden is debarred
from representing the U.S.A. in the Davis
Cup matches. Whether the American action
will mean permanent disqualification as an
amateur is not certain. If so, r l ilden will
be unable to appear in Australia as an
amateur, though he may play as a profes-
sional by stretching several points of law.
In any case, he will not be able. to play in
the State or Australian championships or
in international matches.
The Americans won through to the chal-
lenge round of the Davis Cup by beating
Italy in the final of the zone matches at
Paris, though the withdrawal of A ilden
was expected to improve the Italians’ chance.
Hunter had no trouble with Gaslmi, winning
6-1, 6-1, 6-0, but the surprise was the de-
feat of Morpugo by Hennessey, the American
going right through with 6-4, 7-5, 6-2.
Hennessey and Lott made a sure thing ot
the doubles, defeating De Morpugo and Gas-
lini 6-3, 6-1, 6-2. It is reported that the
American tennis authorities are considering
the question of nominating Tilden for the
challenge round against France, thus sus-
pending his disqualification.
* * =•= *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The victory of the
Australian women tennis players over their
English rivals, after the latter had won
the Wightman Cup from the Americans, has
raised the question whether the conditions
should not be altered so as to make the
competition open to all nations. At present,
the Cup can only be played for by American
and English women. The idea has its good
points, though it is extending the already
much-too-extended craze for international
sport at any cost.
•js * H= «• ' *
“Hamer”: Tennis has been lifted, still
higher in my opinion by the cabled infor-
mation that Tilden, notified of his disquali
fication in the Davis Cup competition, shed
copious tears. Men brave enough to show
their emotions have been found in other
sports. Take the case of “Spadger” Bullock,
the 17-stone footballer, who wept on the
bosom of the referee until that official had
reversed his decision of off-side and awarded
a try. In this manner the Surry Hills Eye-
gougers won the match which ultimately de-
cided the fate of the Pothandle-Makers’ com-
petition. Then there was Bill Duckegg, who
got into district cricket because he knew the
local aldermen and had returned from the
war with a reputation as one of the best
batmen in the A.I.F. —they thought it was
the same as batsman. Bill, given out first
ball, kicked down the wicket and threw" his
bat at the umpire. Chewupski, the giant
wrestler, w 7 ho sat on the floor of the ring,
kicking his legs about and passionately de-
claring that he would not play unless he was
allowed to bite his opponent; “Swifty” Finn,
who ran round the Domain baths screaming
that he was being cheated because he was
placed on scratch in the 25-miles swimming
championship; and the son of Charlemagne,
who bludgeoned with the chessboard the
head of his opponent who had beaten him at
chess, are other instances that occur to me.
It is gratifying to see honest emotion intro-
duced into our sports.
“Cut Shot” : An English tennis team has
definitely selected to visit Australia, and
will reach Sydney on November 13. Matches
will be played in each State; the team will
also compete in the Victorian and Aus-
tralian championships), and against Aus-
tralia, leaving for England early in Feb-
ruary. The English authorities are asking
for a guarantee of £5OO, or a 50 p.c. cut
of the net profits. The team will comprise
Austin, Collins, Higgs and Gregory.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Final Putt” : The regretted death of the
head of the S. M. Herald Fairfax family on
a Sydney golf course again calls attention
to the fact that the game is more exacting
than those unacquainted with it suppose.
In a full round of golf a distance of live
miles may have to be covered, and often
over a fairly stiff terrain. The continual
swinging of arms and body uses up a lot
more muscular energy, with its demands on
the heart. Then there is the mental strain,
considerable in the case of players who con-
centrate on the strokes. Still, there are few
games that do not call for a certain amount
of strain, however harmless they may appear.
Bowls, often cited as an innocuous instance,
has its list of overwrought elderly gentlemen
who have died on the green.
“Old Q." : The Queensland golf champion-
ships ended last week with the amateur
event, for which Ivo Whitton, winner of the
“open” a few days earlier, was considered
a moral. The good thing came unglued,
however, as happens more often in golf,
perhaps, than in any other game; the Vic-
torian crack went out in the semi-final,
beaten three and two by S. A. Keane, of
N.S.W. In the final, Keane succumbed to
the holder of the title, J. N. Radcliffe, who
won easily by four up and two to play.
N.S.W.. scored in the Professionals’ Purse,
which was won by Frank Eyre with a
stroke aggregate of 145, Don Spence
and H. It. Sinclair filling the places. Though
a record for the course, Eyre’s figures will
not be officially recognised, owing to the fact
that the driving-off marks had been moved
a few feet forward on some of the tees.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: The Australian Golf
Club’s War Service Cup, for members who
were with the A.I.F. or 8.E.F., was fought
for at Kensington (N.S.W.) last Friday and
won by A. E. Cooper with a round of 74.
Prime Minister Bruce tied with the winner
in the afternoon stroke handicap, his net
score being 76. As Cooper could not collect
the two trophies the P.M. lifted the pot.
* * * *
“Bertha Brassey”: It is fortunate that
“Colonel Damurize” was not in Sydney last
week, for a feat by one of the associate
members at Manly would have probably com-
pleted the unbalancing of his intellect. At
the- third hole of the “Village” course Mrs.
H. Muston holed out in one. The manner
in which the customary celebration was car-
ried out might have had even worse effects,
for the lady set ’em up—in tea.
He * Hi *
“Miss Mashie” : Last English papers con-
tained details of the first round of the
Parliamentary Golf Handicap played at
Sandwich. Lady Astor’s was the only femin-
ine entry in a list of 108. Her opponent
was Lord Lovat, and the match ended in
favor of the lady by four and three. Alice
Springs papers, please copy.
:!: s’i *
“Divot Digger” : Sydney is to have yet an-
other golf club, the project for a course at
Botany which was proposed some time ago
and allowed to lapse having been revived.
It should be successful, for the area is about
the last available for the purpose within
easy reach of the city, and will give the
hundreds of golfing aspirants who are on the
congested waiting lists of other clubs a
chance to get into action. The idea is to
lay out tw r o courses, a private one of 18
holes and a public course, which should
prove a most popular feature. In connec-
tion with the private course, it is proposed
that members be asked to purchase two deben-
tures at £5 each. It is expected that nine
holes will be available for play in November
next.
* * * *
“Baffy”: The next British open golf cham-
pionship will be held at Muirfield (Scot-
land ), beginning on May 6, 1929; the quali-
fying rounds are to be played at Muirfield
and Gullane. Both are in Fifeshire, not
far from historic St. Andrews, Muirfield
being the home course of the famous James
Braid, who twice won the British open
championship there. It is early yet to talk
about an Australian entry, but it is to bo
hoped that some concerted attempt will be
made by the A.G.U. to send over a repre-
sentative team, instead of leaving the mat-
ter to individual effort, as in the past.
(Continued on next page.)


Special Racket Offer
asdf
“THE SUPERB”
This is a genuine
two-piece racket that
we offer at this re-
markable price.
Shoulders are bound with
vellum and gut binding.
The Appearance is
Equal to Any Racket
on the Market.
Frame Guaranteed 6 Months.
Gut Guaranteed 3 Months.
Price with Cover, 29/6.
Postage Paid.
N.S.W. Sports
Store, Ltd.,
11-13 MARTIN PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Alan Kippax, Director.
Bl
A A
B S
mM m
waff
RE
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
asdf
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
rHE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
t
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
Car and Cycle
“Kedron”: The Queensland R.A.C. intends
to do itself proud in its annual touring con-
test, which is to extend over six days, ending
at the Jenolan Caves (N.S.W.). The route
will be from Brisbane via the Northern
Rivers to Casino, and thence through Armi-
dale, Muswellbrook and Bathurst to the
Caves and Katoomba. Passengers are to
be carried, and the club has opened a book-
ing office for these, since the competitors
will not be able to supply the quota in all
cases from among their friends. But a
difficulty has been encountered—intending
passengers are making meticulous inquiries
as to the make of the cars, their size
and color, whether the driver is a nice sort
of bloke, and a lot of other details. The
maddened R.A.C. announces that they must
find out these important particulars for
themselves, and be prepared to recognise, at
the same time, that the swankiest cars cannot
carry the whole of the applicants for the
trip, as seems to be the popular impression—
among the women, at least.
* * * *
“Trembler” : Messrs Langton and Cromp-
ton, who recently started out in a Baby
Austin to go round Australia in record time,
have struck trouble in Queensland. Between
Blackall and Barcaldine they tried to knock
out a tree, with the result that the chassis
was badly damaged. The journey will be
resumed, but the delay lias knocked all
hopes of the record on the head. This is
unfortunate, for when the bump occurred
the little car was well ahead of schedule.
* ■ * * *
“Mac Donnell”: A new departure in Aus-
tralian motoring is the institution of tours
to Centralia. >Several of these have now
been undertaken to Alice Springs and the
Mac Donnell Range country, including the
almost unknown —to the everyday Australian
—valley of the Finke River. So far Adelaide
has been the base for these tours, but one
started from Melbourne last week via Adel-
aide and Port Augusta, two Nash cars carry-
ing 11 people, under the care of A. Withers,
on a 6000-inile trip. Apart from other
features, the tours should do useful work
in dispelling popular illusions about the
alleged “dead heart of Australia.”
# * * *
“Kick Starter”: The Autocycle Union of
N.S.W. is to stage a meeting on Gerringong
beach on Eight Hours Day, October 1. Solo
events will be held for cycles rated under
250c.c., 350c.c., 500c.c. 750c.c. and lOOOc.c.; *
side-car events will be divided into under
OOOc.c. and over that rating. There will
also be a 20-mile all-powers handicap and
a 10-mile handicap for side-cars. • These
speed events on the beaches are popular in
other parts of the world, and have been pro-
ductive of many records. Gerringong is an
ideal speedway of its kind, but it is far from
being the only one available in Australia.
* * * *
“Whizz”: Brisbane Speedway addicts
experienced a mild thrill when the Soccer
people advertised a match between sides
mounted on motor-cycles as a preliminary
to an inter-State game. Soccer itself is fuil
of excitement if both sides are in the
“willing” mood, and it was felt that, with
the cycles added, some of the old joys of
the dirt-track racing would return. It was
a washout, however. There wasn’t an inch
of skin or a lock of hair lost throughout the
game.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: Australia’s first appearance
in the Tour de France race was in 1914.
In those days the team system had not been
evolved and the riders fought for their own
hands, though pacing by mutual arrange-
ment was permitted. Our representatives
were those two great riders Kirkliam and
Munro, who finished 17th and 20th respec-
tively. The severe Pyrenees section was
not added to the course till 1910; the
distance was then divided into only 15
stages, a more arduous task than the 22
in vogue to-day. It is curiousi that in spite
af the extension of the long run the average
hourly mileage since the beginning lias beer
practically the same, about 17 miles.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: With the Olympic contests
starting on Saturday, the last-minute trials
of the various teams are full of interest. In
track events some remarkable times have
been recorded, and few of our spiked-shoe
candidates can be given much chance. Both
America and South Africa are fielding men
ivho break evens for the 100 yards every
time they strip. Carlton may have a show
in the furlong, at which distance his most
outstanding performances have been done,
but the 100 metres and the middle and dis-
tance events are apparently not for our
representatives, and it looks as if our
highest hopes must centre in Charlton,
Winter and Pearce. The team is now at
Amsterdam, and the prayers of the congre-
gation are requested.
***,):
“Ilotham”: The alert Victorian amateur
athletic authorities have instructed G. R.
Hyde, of the Olympic team, to arrange for a
visit of three representative athletes from
overseas.- The trio suggested are Otto Pelt-
zer and the Americans Lloyd Hahn and
Harold Osborne. Peltzer already intends to
visit Japan this year and would be willing
to come on here. The men would appear in
N.S.W. as well as Victoria, and probably
in Maoriland as well.
$ H* Hs *
“Slide”: H. R. Pearce showed fine form
on the Thames in the senior sculls at Kings-
ton Regatta. He did seven furlongs in
4min. 40sec., and won pulling up. The Syd-
ney youth astonished all hands by the way
he jumped into his stride from the start —
a very important factor for the Olympic
Sculls, which will be rowed on a narrow
canal where an early lead is essential. Beres-
ford’s time for the last Olympiad was 7min.
491 sec., the distance being a trifle over a
mile, and Pearce should have no trouble in
bettering that. The rowing events do not
begin until August 6, so liis main trouble
ill be keeping fit.
'l' 'l* *l* : ! !
“Red Hackle” : No need to bewail the ex-
tinction of the manly British sport of cock-
fighting (B. 27/6/'2B). The. cable reports
the arrest and conviction at Newmarket of a
real baronet, with several other prominent
citizens and their retinue, for indulging in
the supposedly defunct amusement. A horse-
box was used as the pit, and a number of
cocks, trimmed and ready for the fray, were
found close by, while two silver-spurred
warriors were hard at it when the police
broke in. The chief personage, by
name Jardine, comes of a family famous
in English racing and sport generally. His
great-great-grand relatives were well-known
figures at Newmarket when that classic
spot was as renowned for its cocking mains
as for its horseracing.
* * * *
“Don Crew” : A Sydney race-train sharp
was running a game of banker, and in came
the looked-for mug. Making the cards up
“willing,” the sharp let his victim get a
glimpse of the two of spades, which was at
the bottom of the first pack he put down on
the board. “Mind you, the banker wins on
a tie,” he said, as he tabled three more
packs. “You can punt as high as you like,
but if the cards dead-heat the banker wins.”
Knowing the deuce was the lowest card in
the pack, the mug decided to leave the two
of spades for the sharp and backed the
other three packs to win him a tidy sum.
Of course he lost his money when the sharp
turned up tin' other packs, for each of them
had a two at the bottom.
*s* "J*
“Backwoodsman”: A long-de,sired boon
has been bestowed on Dominion bowlers by
the decision of the International Bowling
Board to grant representation to Aus-
tralians, South Africans and Maorilanders.
This is the result of representations made
by .Tim Wall, ex-president of the N.S.W.
Bowling Association, who was sent to Eng-
land as a special ambassador to negotiate the
NORMAN TURNBULL, whose gelding
Namera earned him £ 1623, besides
wagers, by winning the Grand National
Steeple at Flemington.
change. Each country is to have a free hand
in' its own domestic bowling legislation, while
the board will ensure that the game be played
in the countries concerned under uniform
conditions. It will also have to deal with
such knotty matters as the institution of a
standard bowl and uniform dimensions of
rinks and greens.
* * * *
“Lying Two”: One aspect of the standard-
bowl controversy which seems to have beeii
overlooked in the shouting and the tumult is
the weight of the “wood.” Bowls vary greatly
in weight, players being as finicky in this
respect as a billiard champion with his cue.
Maoriland experiments have recently gone
to prove that weight decides the draw, to
quote an old contention. A special light bowl
was made to the test-bowl specifications, and
it was found that though it would run as
far as one over twice its weight it failed
to take the draw like the heavier wood.
Many bowls which have measured up to
standard requirements as regards drawing
power have proved the straightest of woods
in actual practice, thus involving their, per-
haps, innocent owners in contumelious argu-
ments and an atmosphere of suspicion.
ARCHIE HUGHES, featherweight cham-
pion of N.S.W., who recently lout on
points to Maorilander Johnny Lockie
at Dunedin.
“Spencer” : South Australia and Westralia
are to share the Australian swimming cham-
pionships for the coming season. South’s
dates will be February 4, 7 and 11, and Wcst-
ralia’s February 16, 20 and 23. The West-
erners, however, are asking that the South
Australian dates be brought forward by two
weeks, though whether this can be managed
is doubtful.
* * * *
“Yarra”: Victorian swimming authorities
are getting sick of handicap “jokes,” and
have decided to appoint stewards who will
take times and hand them in to the Associa-
will be a handicap. It isi to be hoped that the
appointment of the “stipes” will check the
tendency to run stiff which is often noticed
before important carnivals. Swimmers handi-
capped on their club times have displayed a
much faster rate when the wraps were off,
to the confusion of the liandicapper and the
annoyance of straightgoing competitors.
* * * *
“Brighton”: Last year’s swim across Port
Phillip seems to have caught the public
fancy, and the St. Kilda club has applied
to the swimming authorities for permission
to hold a five-miles event this year. A
trophy valued at £2O has been put up, and
a big entry is expected for the event, which
will be a handicap. It is to be hoped that the
Port Phillip sharks won’t get wind of the
project. So far they have not earned a repu-
tation for dining off local swimmers, though
it is never too iate to make a beginning in
such matters.
* * * *
“Third Base”: The American baseballers
from Stanford University will arrive in Syd-
ney to-morrow, July 26, and will plunge into
the inter-State tournament on July 28, when
they will take on Victoria at the Agricultural
Ground. This will also be the venue of
the team’s two games against Australia, to
be played on August 4 and 11. There is, by
the way, a strong cricket element in the
visiting inter-State teams: Ponsford, Grim-
mett and Alexander are playing.
* * * *
“Deadhead”: The complaint has been
voiced that there was a wholesale traffic
in Sydney Cricket Ground members’ tickets
during the matches of the English League
footballers on that arena. It is a matter
of common knowledge that the practice has
long existed, especially in the football season,
many members who do not care for the
League game being content to lend or hire
their badges, which are often re-lent or sub-
let. The members’ stand has been raided on
more than one occasion, the last being after
that match with the 1924 Englishmen, when
the referee was assaulted by someone in the
members’ stand as he came from the field.
On that occasion many were bowled out, but
it was not long before the joke began work-
ing overtime again.
Pot and Palette.
Budge” : After two or three years’ com-
petition, Melb. Herald’s Listener-In has
just bought out the rival Radio Weekly—
very much on the Weekly’s own terms. It is
henceforth to be published as a monthly.
“Gwaf”: Bulletin contributor Monte 11.
Ilolcroft, of Christchurch (M.L.), will have
a novel published later this year by John
Lane. The story is set in the South Seas,
and is largely a psychological study with
plenty of action. But the most remarkable
thing about it is that it was written inside
10 days.
The United Arts Club, a modest and fairly
new Adelaide body, surprised even itself with
its latest show. First the State Gallery
looked in and bought a Van Raalte etching,
a portrait by Leslie Wilkie (charming work),
and a landscape by Robert Waden, the
coming local man. And then the new Regent
Theatre, wanting adornment for its vesti-
bule, made quick selections, and astonished
the U.A.C. with a cheque for well over £lOO.
“Morita”: Newspaper printing under
difficulties? When the A.I.F. Base at Havre
assumed large proportions a committee de-
cided the time was ripe to produce a weekly
newspaper, mainly to record base doings,
sport and caustic criticisms of concert par-
ties. A deputation to town found that satis-
factory _ arrangements could only be made
with printers who didn’t understand English.
By carefully following the script word for
word, pretty good results were nevertheless
obtained.
11. S. Power, who grew up in S.A. and
had his first commission from Adelaide
Gallery, has a show at the Society of Arts
rooms in that city. Horses, horses every-
where, including three Royal Academy ex-
hibits, a finely-imagined gipsy camp, a study
of a waggon-team in London, and a meet-of-
the-hounds such as made Power’s name
among the country gentlemen of England.
But he has variety, too: parrots that are a
riot of color, girl in a landscape, and quiet
ploughing scenes rather like Ileysen.
“Wai-lioi”: The handwriting of J. Win
tlirop Ilackett (B. 27/6/’2B) wasn’t as bad
as that of Charles Cameron Kingston; and
I’ve tried to decipher both. When King-
ston was S. Aus. Premier I saw him about
a matter of public interest at the moment;
and he gave me a memo, in his own writing.
Later in the day, at the old ’Tiser office,
I tried to get the hang of it, to no purpose.
In desperation I took the mystery back
to the big man. He looked at it for a few
moments, smiled and said : “The good Lord
knows, my boy—make what you like of it!”
“N.M.0.”: In Maoriland freelance stuff
is either unmarketable locally or paid for
at rates that would hardly keep a pet canary.
In the Christmas edition of a prominent
Maoriland newspaper the leading article was
really fine. It dealt 'with the mentality of
the average Maorilander, which embraced
wonderful adaptability, resourcefulness, and
so on. The writer concluded with an appeal
to all that these precious qualities might be
developed along the right lines. Splendid!
I turned to the supplement of sixteen pages.
From cover to cover it was reprint from
cheap Yankee journals.
Australia harbors a versatile and indomit-
able brushman in Rupert Bunny. His latest
show at Melbourne Athenaeum comprises 29
canvases, some of vast dimensions, covering
most stages of his development. One of the
oldest and largest, for which 3000 guineas
is asked, contains some of the worst draw-
ing; and one of the smallest, a recent por-
trait of a French peasant woman, contains
some of the best. Bunny used to be an ex-
perimenter on a big scale. He was fond of
assembling multitudes of women in com-
positions whose rhythmic charm hid the occa-
sional misplacement of a limb. Nowadays
he concentrates on the small, gemlike and
unpopulated landscape, with more even
results. This is the usual evolution of
thoughtful artists. As their eyes become
more educated their aim becomes more
modest.
“Huffin-Guffin”: Looking over the great
list of entries for The Bulletin Australian
Novel Competition, I have been trying to pick
winners from the titles. Not a very profit-
able, or even sensible occupation, perhaps;
still, it might be of interest, in the later
light of the judges’ findings, to record what
seem attractive. One that keeps pushing
itself into my mind is “When the Northern
Streams Run Gold.” Visions of real Aus-
tralia arise from that poetical title. Another
that sounds attractive is “Joan of Jackson’s
Crossing.” “Homes Across the Southern
Sea” might have Australian atmosphere, seen
through north-country eyes. “Where the
Gully Begins” appeals to one who has traced
many bush streams to their source. “Some
Private Records of Felicity Vernon” has the
promise of intimate details that all of us
like. Of similar promise is “The Smiths
and the Browns.” Now let us see if there
is anything in a name.


CAM YOU PAY .
ITll.li MORE TAXEf ?
Compensation of all whose
interests would be affected
by the introduction of NO
LICENSE will cost at least,
0000
{4,6 O 0,0.00
to compensate for the loss of Federal
Customs and Excise Duties. To this
must be added £1,100,000 interest
and £3,500,000 cost of enforcement.
This means a burden of at least an-
other £20,000,000 capital expendi-
ture and £8,100,000 annually on the
shoulders of the already overloaded
taxpayers of N.S.W.
Can you pay? Do you WANT to
pay? Is it worth while handing out
twenty million pounds in return for
an unworkable destruction-dealing
fad which is unworthy of the name
“law”?
\
u
'
V/
Is it worth while curtailing your pleasure and your children’s oppor-
tunities in order to find money for a measure which has proved a dis-
astrous failure wherever it has been tried?
Do not be misled by the vague sentimentalisms of unpractical agitators.
Prohibition is wrong in principle and BECAUSE it is wrong in principle
it can never succeed. To state that the introduction of Prohibitionwould
help N.S.W. is OBVIOUSLY untrue. You can best help your State and
the principle of temperance by smashing the Prohibition fad!
VOTE NO'
Inserted by the CITIZENS’ RIGHTS AND LIQUOR REFORM ASSOCIATION,
to further the cause of Liberty and Freedom of Action. Financial Support is
invited, and Subscriptions for Membership will be received at BELMONT
CHAMBERS, 15 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.


Under
Royal
Warrant
sdf
ToH.NL
GeorgeV
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
Champagne
Gjarteslleidsie#
Reims
'^lo
PELLI3SON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Q
weeMvlreat in many homes
'U h J / / / *r> .. "
■anc( always a
zm
m
1
V.
COUNTLESS housewives include
Swallow and Ariell’s Plum
Puddings in their menu once
a week at least. Their richness,
fruitiness and incomparable flavor
have made them first favorite in
Australian homes for over fifty
years. They’re made from an
“Olde Englishe” recipe, too ! In-
valuable when unexpected guests
arrive.
Ask your Grocer, and Serve One
Every Sunday.
SiVatlcur &. CViieWi
DELICIOUS
PLUM PUDDINGS
WHEREEVER YOU TRADE BUY AUSTRALIAN MADE
7he cen'ne of Queens /anc/s
’ d/s/tnpu/shec/ Soc/o/ Li/e.
It’ttlUMS
Wotei
BRISBANE
sf
Magnificent Bal 1-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attacnea. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Teleprams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5180 —10 Lines
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SLIPPER
HELL
SILK HOSLERY
‘The comedy is finished” gasped poor, tor-
mented Canio as the curtain fell on the
opening night of “Pagliacci.” But for one
who had intended to sit in his usual seat
and watch the performance life's comedy had
already concluded. The seat that would
have been occupied by James Fairfax, of the
S. M. Herald, was filled by another. In-
deed, old friends who had heard the news
after they reached Her Majesty’s were very
grateful that no vacant chair across the
circle was a constant reminder of the
tragically sudden death that afternoon on the
Rose Bay Golf Links. This Letter asked a
Fairfax friend what was the outstanding
characteristic of the newspaper knight. “Jus-
tice,” was the reply ; “he kept an impartial
mind.” “Geoffrey for sympathy, James for
justice,” was the summing-up of the two
Herald magnates by another who had long
known them both.
There were tiny white porcelain drinking
bowls, at the bottom of each of them a blue
flying fish, a hurrying cloud, a scarf of
wind or a Fujijama, according to your fancy,
On the port side of the deck was a model of
Miyajama, one of the famous shrines of
Japan; on the quarter-deck a garden of the
dwarfest of dwarf trees, in the midst of it a
cherry-tree in blossom. In the officers’ dining-
room was a statue of the goddess whose special
care is “the man of the sea”; near by a
mirror that was cracked by a bursting war-
shell is made a. thing of beauty by ex-
quisitely modelled branches of cherry'blos-
som bending in the wind. On the
long dining-tables was a plantation of
dwarf trees, bordered by a flat weave of
poppies and green foliage. But outside the
dining-room door was the prettiest sight on
the ship—a long row of exquisite lanterns
marking the doorways of the officers’ quar-
-ters. They were of twilight grey, on which
were delicate-stemmed branches starred with
pale greeny-yellow half-opened blossom,
finished off with slim tassels that ran from
the twilight grey to emerald green. It
seemed as though the artist who designed
them had wanted to express moonlight
oyer a garden. These are lingering memories
of the party on the Idzumo when Admiral
Kobayashi and his men bade Sydney to a
welcome and farewell party.
The harbor was a ruffling blue feather on
the spring-like afternoon, and the red and
white entwined decks of the Idzumo were
crowded. The hosts were unremitting in
their attentions. A group of decorated
officers stood almost under the gold emblaz-
oned “Welcome,” and near by the Admiral
gave the handshake that is peculiar to
admirals whatever their race. A bow to .the
decorated ones was responded to by a jerky
bow, a smart salute and a flash of dazzling
teeth. In fact, dazzling teeth were a fea-
ture of the afternoon, for the officers seemed
a jolly lot —especially one young leg-puller
who. asked how many bowls of saki he could
drink without his head going round, said
“Oh, about three hundred!” Everybody car-
ried a tiny silken flag. Ladies were given
crimson ribbons with the name of the Idzumo
gold-lettered upon it; postcards, too, and
Paper flowers were thrust upon their guests
bv the sailormen of the nation that revels in
the giving and receiving of tiny gifts. Some
of the young officers were not small and
scarcely brown at all—their cheeks glowed
pomegranate-red through a pale gold skin.
The fencing, especially a display in which
long staves take the place of the swords,
drew a dense ring of spectators. As lightly
poised on his feet as a ballerina was the
one to whom the umpire declared two or
three times a “deci-ded vic-tor-ee.” His
toes and ankles seemed strong as steel,
supple as rubber; swift, long-circling strides
played as great a part as the cunning of his
arm and eye.
There were lots of “Tea Cake Sandwhich,”
as told by the sign above one buffet, and a
rival sign, “Whisky Sake,” drew hundreds
The Prince came aloft to greet the Governor
ana daughter Elaine, and later on the Pre-
mier Bavin couple joined the group. It was
a day out for the consuls, and Navy and
Army wore strongly to the fore.
Toti dal Monte, the skylark of the William-
son Opera Co., is engaged to marry tenor
Enzo de Muro Lomanto, of the same aviary
The two sing together in “Lucia,” “The Bar-
ber,” “Don Pasquale” and “Tales of Hoff-
maun.” He’s a smooth-cheeked young Neo-
politan and a barrister. Wedding bells will
ring out over their nuptials from St. Mary’s
before the close of the season here. They
had not met till February of this year, when
he sang Tonio to her Maria at La Scala in
“The Daughter of the Regiment.”
The National Council of Women, led by
its president, the learned Mrs. Muscio, has
dug its teeth into the problems relating to
women in general and those of Australia
in particular. Around in the Royal Colonial
Institute they have sat in conclave since
Mrs. Muscio opened the inter-State Confer-
ence with a clear statement of the work the
Council is doing, and the greater things
it hopes to do. The council wants to see
women on juries, on boards and delegations
and in Parliament, and it hopes to continue
as a sort of vigilance committee in matters
that concern the sex. Such vital questions
as maternal mortality, child welfare, domestic
science, economic independence of wives,
divorce laws and a hundred other facets in
the lives of Australia’s womanhood have
fcngaged these N.C.W. representatives from
the six States, not forgetting Tasmania,
though the Apple Isle’s veteran, Mrs. Dob-
son, had the bad luck to keep an unwished-
for tryst with influenza at the outset.
It’s dry work talking, so any number
of tea parties and water picnics had been
arranged for the delegates. The first of these
was spread by Chief Commissioner Fleming’s
lady, who against a background all greeny
fern and burning poppies dispensed the suc-
culent sandwich and jocund words to the
debaters. Mrs. Garlick and Mrs. Morton,
wives of the city’s other guardian angels,
helped to hand around the goodies in the
most homelike manner in the world.
As usual, the first evening party the con-
ferred indulged in was at the Women’s
Club. Here the leader of each State's con-
signment of grey cells gave forth her first
coo-ee above a shoulder posy of violets and
hyacinth. Mrs. Glencross, who led the Vic-
torians, urged the women to mix more with
the men in their work. (“Too right!’ says
the Girl in the Flat Opposite, “and in their
play as well.”) The Queensland leader was
Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart; the Westralians
were led by Miss Holmes, and S. Australia
and Tasmania by Mrs. Christophers and
Mrs. Mond.
Falk made this picture the other day
of Mrs. I-lalse Rogers, just after her husband
had been
appointed to
the Supreme
Court Bench
in place of
lately retired
Justice Gor-
don. Mrs
Rogers, who is
a keen member
of the National
Council of
Women, is a
leade r in the
battle for more
milk and bet-
ter milk for
babies. St.
Luke’s II os-
pi t a 1 is an-
other of her
enthusiasms,
and when not
busy with good
works, she is an unrelenting pursuer of the
golf ball. Her sister is the famous golfer
Miss Trevor Junes.
A garden party in July is chilly enjoy-
ment even though the sun does shine. So fur
coats, sleek and wonderful, paraded the walks
about Government House when the State
Exes, were at home in honor of the Japanese
Training Squadron. Of really gorgeous coats
that worn by the wife of the Vice-Consul for
Japan was outstanding. It was of mink,
rather long, and worn with a toque of silk
velvet the pink of a Malmaison rose. Another
whose seal coat made the bunnies silent and
ashamed was Lady Poynter’s. Black mus-
quash, its deep collar mixed with ermine,
was worn by Toti dal Monte, who, with her
young man, talked vivaciously to the purple-
robed Papal delegate—no doubt putting up
the banns. Near by on the path stood the
wife of Italy’s Consul-General Grossardi.
Her navy blue suit was smart with narrow
gold braid, and she flashed long pearl ear-
rings under a small black hat. Elaine de
Chair, in a cream cloth outfit, helped to
make the navies of Japan and Australia
at home with one another.
Prince Takamatsu was distinguished by
the gold star on his breast; and Admiral
Kobayashi was in a group in which were
Japan’s Consul-General Tokugawa, the Chief-
Justice Streets and Lieut.-Governor Cullen.
Another distinguished at the party was the
Egyptian Prince, Mohamed Ali, nephew of
the present ruler, King Fuad. But he came
in mufti as Rustam Bey, and was sponsored
by General Lloyd. Lord Somers, Victoria’s
good-looking Governor, over for the Masonic
celebrations, wasn’t at the party. He was
keeping an appointment with a golf ball
on the Rose Bay greens.
The Harry Budges—she furred and small-
hatted —looked after a group of Japan’s en-
signs. Grey ponyskin kept the tall Scavizzi
warm; Mrs. Aubrey Ilalloran walked in a
suit the color of an old Pompeiian red tile,
collared to the ears in beaver. Mrs. Walter
Swinson was one of the large-hatted few ; and
Premier Bavin’s lady wore a small pull-on
of rust-red to match her coat. Mrs. Halse
Rogers, in grey squirrel, and Mrs. Teppema,
in musquash and a small vermilion hat, kept
company. Civic Commissioner Fleming, im-
posing Town Clerk Layton and John Lane
Mullins were among the silk-hatted. Allan
Wilkie and his Frediswyde Hunter-Watts,
looking as gentle as the touch of autumn ;
the Mark Sheldons, the handsome rector of
St. John’s, Adrian Curlewis and his Betty
Carr, Roi de Mestre, Macarthur Onslows,
Lambert, Windeyers and Army, Church and
Navy (Mrs. Leo Quick with her Commander
in a scarf that was the hue of mustard) were
among those who watched the cold westerly
turn the harbor in tjie distance from its
usual sapphire to steel blue.
Lady de Chair smiled on all from a hand-
some alliance of navy-blue and green velvet,
the velvet occurring as appliqued leaves on
the blue marocain.
The Bulletin's old friend Howard Hin-
ton will survey posterity from the walls of
the National Gallery, to which he has given
roods and perches of masterpieces. Some of
the best works of Lindsay, Gruner, Hilder
and Heysen which- the Gallery possesses
came from his treasure store. He is that
very rare thing, a connoisseur whose impulse
for giving equals his avidity for gathering.
The trustees commissioned Lambert to paint
the Gallery’s friend, and the portrait is Lam-
bertian, even to the carefully-posed full, firm
hands with their long fingers; urbane, digni-
fied. One can imagine Longstaff, on the
other hand, presenting the fresh-cheeked,
jolly but shy boy who lives behind the bright,
Kipling-like, short-sighted eyes.
A hopeful light is in the eye of Sydney
boardingliouse-keepers nowadays, and their
impatience of slow-paying boarders is grow-
ing in emphasis. Something better than the
Easter Show is due to happen to them when
the pilgrims for the Eucharistic Congress,
which will be held in September, arrive.
Even though the original estimate of 250,000
visitors has been halved, that number of
extra guests means corn in Egypt for the
people who make a living by supplying bed
and board. The steamer Munargo is shortly
due to bring the first batch of visitors —400
American pilgrims who apparently intend
having a look at us before attending to the
main business of their journeying.
One firm is laying itself out to help people
who are investing in new furniture in the
hope of reaping portion of the harvest.
Apparently it is content with an arrange-
ment on something like casli-after-the-visit
principles.
After all expenses have been paid the
Country Women’s Association will net a
handsome £550 from the Extra Chukka Ball.
So delighted was the dance committee with
the night’s success that Mrs. Potts, who
does the publicity work for the Ambassadors
and who, for love, looked after the booking
plan, was presented with a gold bedroom
clock. Evidently a sort of hint to be up
early in time for next year’s event.
Sheila Brodie, the pretty youngest daugh-
ter of the late F. A. Brodies, of Queensland,
in a shimmer of satin and a souffle of lace
and silver, was one of the brides
St. Stephen’s blessed last week. Wallace
Bowman, of Singleton, was the young man
who shared the blessing under a floral arch
with a peal of wedding bells. Padre Hugh
Paton officiated against a background of
arum lilies. Mrs. .Wallace Sawyer, who
stepped with care in the wake of the deli-
cate tulle train with its panel of point-de-
gaze, wore a lace frock the hue of golden
corn. Her bouquet of golden' pansies and
wallflower contrasted with the trail of rose-
pink orchids that was caught in the crook
of the bride’s arm. Bride’s sister Mrs.
Keith Mackay did the honors at the Queen’s
Club, and clothed her act in pale blue
romaine, the classically-draped gown being
covered by a straight coat of the same shade,
deeply collared and cuffed in the fashionable
grey fur.
A question that ultimately will affect, the
diamond merchants of Hatton Gardens was
put by Beresford Sydney Morgan, of Bris-
bane, the other day to Marie Viles, of Bondi,
The young man had come from Indooroo-
pilly, in Brisbane, for his answer. Having
got it. in just as great a hurry l he departed.
Beresford Sydney Morgan is the third son
of knight Arthur Morgan, who in his day
was variously Premier, Speaker, President
of the Legislative Oouncl and Lieut.-Gover-
nor of Queensland.
By her approaching marriage with the
Earl of Bective, Rupert Clarka’s widow will
become an in-law of H. E. Boote, editor of
the Worker. The present Marchioness of
Headfort, the Earl’s mother, was before her
marriage Rosie Boote, a Gaiety actress, and
she is first cousin to the journalist. His
book, “Tea with the Devil,” is one of the
interesting hour-passers of the month.
Herewith Mary Jay, a Sydney journalist
and a delegate at the Pan Pacific Women’s
Conference to be held in Honolulu in August.
Miss Jay will there represent the Westralian
and Tasmanian
branches o f
the National
Council of
Women. A t
Oslo in 1920
she was at the
International
Council of
Women ; and
she was a dele-
gate at Copen-
hagen iii 1924,
and at Wash-
ington, D.C.,
in the follow-
ing year. The
Peace Confer-
ence at Wemb-
ley listened to
her views, and
sc. did the
fifth assembly
of the League
of Nations. For war service King Albert
of Belgium decorated her with the Medal
of Queen Elizabeth. Her greatest interest
is child welfare, and it is to this branch
of the National Council’s activities she de-
votes her best energies.
Nancy Marsden was married to Dr. Edwin
Calvert at All Souls’ in London a week or
two ago. The reception afterwards was in
the wedding suite at the Langham Hotel.
On her wedding dress Nancy wore an ex-
quisite translucent shell flower that was sent
to her by an Australian friend. These shell
flowers are the work of a Sydney woman,
Mrs. Robertson, of Ashfield, whose delicate
handwork lias made quite a fame for her.
Good-looking Marjorie Lindemann, of Moss
Yale, is to be a soldier’s bride. Her young
man is Major Rupert Fanning, D. 5.0., of
the Staff Corps—a Duntroon man with a
war record that is epic.
Wedding bells are due' to peal for Roy
Russell and Mary Macrae. The young man,
trained for musical comedy, came to Aus-
tralia for “Tip Toes,” and, making a visit
to the Palace to meet his old friend Irving
Ellis, was introduced to the lady in the
case. This spilt the beans, so to speak;
instead of packing for England when his
“Tip Toes” engagement finished, Russell
asked for a job with Muriel Starr, and, in
spite of his lack of experience in straight
plays, got it.
The Broken Bay Motor Yacht Club,
which is little sister to that of Rose Bay,
held its first dance in its own home the
other night. Its members are mostly week-
end dwellers at Newport and Pittwater, and
it boasts (so the girl members say) a per-
fectly thrilling threesome of commodores.
Slade, .Nossiter and Fitz Patrick by nam»
they give an air of a Buckingham Palace
reception to these dances by the sea. The
clubhouse, high above Broken Bay, faces the
twinkling lights of Newport. It has a big
room the length of the building. One end of
it is sacred to billiards, the other to refresh-
ments; there are dancing- verandahs open to
the winds and the rain of Heaven as well as
its stars, and a very well-appointed commit-
tee-room. There was a trophy-giving at last
week’s cheerio, Mrs. Stuart Doyle coming
from town to be a queen of the tourney.
Mrs. C. P. Witt, as president of the ladies
committee, had much to do with the night’s
affairs. Handsome Mrs. Harry See flashed
an eye-blinking bow brooch on her green
lame dress that blazed also with silver and
black sequins. Sporting little Isabel Frazer
was the only one of the sex to bag a prize
—a silver vase that stood virginal and alone
amid great silver cups that kept roystering
companionship with asparagus dishes and
cacktail shakers.
Twins had newly arrived in the front
bedroom of the little fruit farm. The eldest
young woman of the family, aged five, viewed
them pensively. “If there’d -been three of
them instead of two, they’d have been cut-
lets, wouldn’t they, Mummy?” she questioned.
A window of one of those small, enter-
by-the-grace-of-gold-only shops in Castle-
reagh-street looked the other day as though
Jack Frost had worked overnight at its
decoration. At close range the frost-bound
mist behind the panes turned into one of
those gorgeous wedding veils of tulle that
float and billow into a train as well. There
must have been miles of tulle in it. It was
a thistledown island over which snow waters
of tulle cascaded from a coronet of peach-
blossom in the higher reaches of the window.
A pair of Cinderella slippers of woven peach-
blossom and lily of the valley were the
only other decoration. Yet women came
from far-flung suburbs to the view.


A. SAUNDERS’
STANDARD QUALITY JEWELLERY
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Jewelled Lever Watch, Silk
Wrist Band, £6/10/-. GUARANTEED.
A. SAUNDERS’
Single-Diamond
Hexagon-shaped
Platinum IBct.
Gold Ring, £4.
A. SAUNDERS’
15ct. Gold Links,
set ' fine Diamond,
£3/10/-
Larger Diamond,
£4/10/-, £5.
W
A. SAUNDERS’
Opal Ring, 9ct.
Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS’ Single-Diamond Hexagon
shaped Platinum 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch, £5
Larger Diamond, £7/10/-
Sr
=!
A. SAUNDERS’ Nickel Keyless Imperial
Lever, 25/-
Higher Grades, 30/-, 40/r, 50/-
ALL GUARANTEED.
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamond Cluster-
set Platinum, 18ct.
Gold Ring,
£6/16/-
A. SAUNDERS’
9ct. Gold Links,
20/-
Heavier, 25/-,
30/.. 15ct., Gold,
£2, £2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’
Lady’s 9ct. Gold
Signet Ring, 12/6
A SAUNDERS’ 9et. Solid Gold Curb Albert, £5/10/-
Heavier, £6, £6/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO.
Lighter, £3, £3/10/-, £4, £4/10/-, £5.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDERS—WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
SAUNDERS,
W atchmaker —Jeweller —Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite, Railway Station), SYDNEY.
COMMONWEALTH LOAN
Safest of All Securities
Consider the advan-
tages of the new
Commonwealth Loan
—whether you have
£lO or £lO,OOO to
invest! Inquire at any
bank or at any
Money Order Post
Office for the con-
vincing particulars.
Your application can
be lodged with any
of these institutions.
The investment is as
easy to effect as it is
wise to make. Stock
and Bonds in the loan
maturing on Septem-
ber 15 can be con-
verted at once. Cash
Bonus of £l/10/-%,
payable within two
days of conversion.
Issue Price, £9B/10 -
Interest 5£%
Term, either 7 or 14
years.
Yielding respectively
£5/10/3% and
£5/8/1%
Interest Free of State Income Tax
EARLE PAGE,
Treasurer.
Commonwealth Treasury,
Canberra, F.C.T.
DEECO-LIGHT
Taßes up the job
where the sun leaves off
r pO-NIGHT, when you find yourself in a
losing race with the sun, as you finish
your work for the day with your mind on
the work for to-morrow —think for a minute
of the future.
Will your life always be like this? Will you
and your family always be hurrying from one
task to another —tired out from over-work
and lack of recreation?
Perhaps you vaguely promise yourself that
you’ll have things easier some time. But why
not now?
Why not modernise your farm with Delco-
Light? Enjoy its convenience now —next
Winter—next Summer —the rest of your
life. It will repay its cost many times over.
Delco-Light takes up the job where the sun
leaves off. It gives you electric light for
the morning and evening work around the
farmyard—for reading and indoor recrea-
tion. It gives you power for doing things
by machinery that you now do by hand. It
supplies current for electrical conveniences
that bring new ease and contentment to
your family. It makes possible the blessings
of running water and Frigidaire Electric
Refrigeration.
Delco-Light is moderate in price and low in
cost of operation. Get particulars in person,
or post the coupon below to your nearest
distributor.
I
DISTRIBUTORS:
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
307-15 Kent Street, Sydney
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide
STEWART & MACLEAN PTY.,
LTD.,
104 George Street, Launceston
Please send me Booklet “B,” giving full particulars
of Delco-Light.
NAME
ADDRESS
DELCO-LIGHT
Product of General Motors


SMOKERS !
Here is something
different to relieve a dry
mouth or tickling throat.
Try
‘Allenbursys
Black Currant PASTILLES
and be delighted with their
soothing effect and refreshing
flavour.
Your Chemist stocks them,
lj- and 1/9 per box
nAMEs
is ToMark
All Linen
Indispensable to every Household.
CASH S NAMhSi are destinctive,
yet near fadeless and durable^,
c 0& 'Wctlia.rtui-
Sold by all
Best Drapers,
Actual Size, Style No. 6
Prices:
I2d z , 7/6.
6dz, 5/6.
3dz, 3/6
"A few stitches and they're on. *
Write for Name Style Circular to
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Melb
ash§j
Washing
Ribbons
Lingerie
Nil
sdf
South Australia’s Most Modern
Hotel is
Piper’s
Hotel Richmond
128-130 Rundle St., Adelaide.
Now Open to Receive Guests.
Hot and cold water and telephones
in every bedroom.
Rooms with private bath. Every con-
venience for comfort of guests.
Tariff, inclusive Board, 22/6 per day.
Private Bathrooms extra.
A limited number single rooms 20/-
per day.
Telephone: Central 606.
W. A. PIPER, Proprietor.
Only Hie be/t people
y> N> HiefßAftfEiAGM
The most luxurious hotel in the
Southern Hemisphere is the country
home of the nicest people.
t
Management: G. M. Lievain, Robertson.
Inclusive Tariff, from £1 /1J- per
day, or from £6/6/- per week.
Sydney Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street.
’Pbone: 86491.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Governor and Lady Somers helped to
swell the large crowd at the V.A.T.C. meet-
ing at Caulfield on Saturday. Though in
the shade there was a chill in the air, out
in the sun the caressing warmth of early
spring made itself felt. But the change in
the season was not reflected in feminine
apparel. Coats and skirts, furs, some smart
topcoats, and small felt hats, with a stray
new model in straw here and there, again
held the field. Lady Somers wore a tailored
suit of cocoa-liued tweed topped by a lighter
felt hat. Captain and Mrs. R. T. A. Mac-
Donald, Russell Clarke and a couple of
other guests lunched at the v.-r. table. In
the committee ladies’ box were Mrs. James
Grice, her daughter-in-law, Mrs. Claude
Grice, and Mrs. T. A. Tabart, clad in navy
blue, with her daughters Edna and Pixie.
Mrs. Norman Falkiner was wrapped in a
mole coat and Mrs. Otway Falkiner topped
a sapphire blue costume with a largish black
hat. Pianist Benno Moiseiwitsch, who was
with Mrs. Charlie Tait and one of her daugh-
ters, was doing his best to strike the right
horses —a more chancy business than striking
the right notes. The Horace Munros, Mr. and
Mrs. James Purves and Valerie, the Percy
Blackbourns and Mrs. Graham Browne were
among lawn promenaders.
The _ fancy-dress revel of the Victorian
Artists’ Society at headquarters on Friday
night was highly successful. Under the
guidance of Yvonne Mclntyre, Murray Grif-
fin, Pat Harford and 11. L. Fern the gallery
had been turned into a pirate ship with a
plenitude of skulls and crossbones, charts
of treasure islands and other piratical props
figuring in drop-scenes and dadoes. A
cannon at the head of the companionway
boomed forth at intervals. The quartette
who planned the setting appeared as sea-
robbers, arrayed according to the best tra-
ditions of comic opera. Harry McClelland
and Algy Montgomery were Chinese raiders.
They brought with them a sea-chest of loot
and Nan McClelland, attired in Elizabethan
raiment and in chains, as a hostage. Though
the costumes were mostly nautical there
was a sprinkling of pierrots and Colum-
bines and other characters not associated
with the rolling deep. Esther Paterson
(Mrs. Gill) donned the white robes of
Juliet; her husband was a naval officer, and
her sister Betty a powdered and patched
lady. Mrs. Douglas Hamilton, of Singa-
pore, remembered as Ruby McNaught, a
popular singer of this city, sported a gor-
geous Chinese robe. With her were Mrs.
Russell Jackson, as a nun. and her sister,
Mrs. E. Dyson, who m,ade a pretty Cin-
derella.
A cream Baby Austin, festooned with blue
and gold and displayed prominently at the
Plaza, St. Kilda, on Thursday night, was a
token to tel] the world that the Royal
Automobile Club of Victoria was holding its
annual ball. Lately known as the Wattle
Path, the rechristened dancing rendezvous
has been brought right up to date in the
matter of lighting and decorations, and boasts
a good cabaret ballet. The motorists’ hop
was a bright, well-attended show, to which
balloons and carnival head-dresses lent a
gala air. The president of the club, Alured
Kelly, w r as there with his wife, whose mag-
pie raiment was splashed with diamente.
Mrs. E. W. Cox also wore black and white,
which twinkled in harmony with her glitter-
ing footwear. Mrs. 11. J. Robertson, of
the Women’s Auto Club, had a sparkle
of crystal on a begonia-red gown. In her
party were several well known musical
people, including Muriel Cheek, Jessie
Shmith, who wore a black lace robe, and Mr.
and Mrs. Cecil Parkes, she in wldte with
a scatter of rhinestones. The Edgar Dyes
were in another group, the lady looking
attractive in almond green with embroidery
of crystal. Elma Starr’s lemon-colored frock
blended into a hem of blue and bore floral
adornment; Hester Adamson’s Titian locks
appeared above a black-velvet and lace gown :
and Pearl Cole wore a scintillating frock
of deep pink. The Russell Gabbs were
dancers, Mrs. Gabb wearing black outlined
with diamente.
The president, Mrs. Britomarte James, in
blue and silver brocade combined with
black georgette, was hostess at the fifth birth-
day celebration of the Imperial Ex-Service
Women’s Association at the Lyceum Club on
Thursday night. Members collected- some
of their menfolk and friends to swell the
gathering, among the outsiders being Group-
Captain Cave-Brown-Cave and some of the
other R.A.F. officers. Dr. Ethel Osborne, a
vice-president, wished Mrs. James a happy
time at the conference at Honolulu to which
she departed this week. Lightning sketches
by Esther and Betty Paterson and musical
items by Hilda Meadows, Mrs. Maurice
Dudley and others entertained the party.
To provide a setting for the July dance
of the Lawn Tennis Association at Ivoo.-
yong Club-house Vera de Bavay chose the
lovely pink shades of wild heath, toppling
from hanging baskets. Among the dancers
were Mr. and Mrs. Brodribb, she wearing
black lace over a whisper of pink; and the
Morton Willmotts, the lady in delphinium
georgette with a top-dressing of silver lace.
An ex-students’ dance of last week was
the annual hop of the Old Brighton Gram-
marians at the Embassy. Wee-president
Hugh Purse did the honors in the unavoid-
able absence of president Haddon A. Smith.
Mrs. Purse, whose black gown was cheered
with gold, assisted in the welcoming. H. E.
Dixon, headmaster of the school, came to
the gathering with his daughter Nancy, who
was clad in peach-pink georgette.
That the cabaret and sale of work at the
residence of Mrs. Harry Emmerton had
netted £3OO to swell the building fund of the
Cripples’ Home at Frankston was a joyful
announcement at the annual meeting of the
South Yarra Children’s Hospital Auxiliary.
The president, the Chauvel lady, presided
over the yearly stocktaking at Mayfair,
South Yarra, and Mrs.' Fred Krcrouse and
Mrs. Arthur Timmins were hostesses. Trea-
surer Brenda Gunier reported that the bank
balance stood at £96, and the workers felt
that they had not striven in vain. To
help with the furnishing of the Cripples’
Home, which is a link with the Children’s
Hospital, tin; Firm is putting on a special
matinee performance on August 28.
When the emerald green curtain of the
Comedy Theatre arose on Saturday night it
disclosed an interior setting that was nuptial
in atmosphere—silver-grey panelling, cry-
stal chandeliers, grey candle shades and bowls
of arum lilies and white heath. The same
room with changes rung in the floral scheme
served for the other two acts of Lonsdale’s
bright play “The High Road,” which was the
first offering of the return season of the
Vanbrugli-Boucicault Co. The dressing of
the ladies of high society was elaborate and
the simple little actress —is there such an
animile?—whose blue ensemble of the first
act brought recollections of the Duchess of
York, was provided with some very pretty
frocks. Irene Vanbrugh, whose shapely legs
and feet are given quite a lot of prominence
in this piece, made her first-act appearance
in gold slippers, which accompanied a black
lace frock. A smart black and white suit
and a pale green robe that dangled icicles
later figured in the leading lady’s trousseau.
Prudence Vanbrugh’s gold satin gown drew
gasps of admiration and envy, and Annie
Saker’s handsome dresses formed a rich back-
ground for ropes of pearls. The Governor,
who was accompanied by Rear-Admiral and
Mrs. Napier and Major Drake Brockman,
smiled approval from a box. Opposite was
Dame Nellie Melba with diamonds in her
coiffure and on her white gown. The George
Armstrongs and Major Edric Henty were
with her. The Clarke lady, wearing a blue
and silver wrap; the George Russells; Mr.
and Mrs. Ivan Gutmann, and the Bob Bruces
helped to make up a full house.
Mignon Weston, of Adelaide, pictured here
by Hammer, of that city, came to Melbourne
a little more than a year ago. For some
years she was secretary of the Adelaide
Uni. C o n<,
where she
studied the
piano. There
being a scar-
city of wood-
wind players
in the Con.
orchestra Miss
Weston
tackled the
oboe, and is
now a first-
rate player, an
unusual a c-
complishm e n t
for one of her
sex. Her teach-
er was W. 11.
Foote, who
was imported
by the Uni. to
take charge of
instruction in
the playing of wind instruments. Miss
Weston, who is a daughter of Kate Ileleu
Weston, novelist and musical critic, of the
Holy City, is now a member of Hoyt’s
orchestra, but played at the Princess during
the Gonsalez opera season. She is also
a teacher of flute-family instruments.
On Saturday afternoon a wedding march
sounded in St. John's, Essen don, as Carol,
only daughter of the Thomas Marrs. of that
district, floated up the aisle to meet Clive,
only son of Mrs. M. Bromwich, of Hornsey,
England. A gown of ivory georgette,
fashioned with graduated frills, surrounded
the bride, and a veil of Brussels lace was
confined with a silver band garnished with
orange-blossoms. Ethelwyn Ingles Smith
and little Jean Pascoe attended her, wear-
ing pink georgette and taffeta - frocks with
felt hats to match.
Maoriland pianist Vera Moore, who has
won a place for herself in London’s world
of music, has given two recitals at the
Assembly Hall. She is of the poetic rather
than the dynamic school, and invests her in-
terpretations with a restful charm. Slight,
with dark shingled hair, she wore a gown
of geranium-red chiffon, tight of bodice, and
an ankle-length skirt. Lady Somers, wrapped
in a fur coat, was in the front row at the
second recital. With her were Colonel and
Mrs. Davidson. Mayor Morell, his lady, and
Sheila, Mrs. Ernest Scott, Mrs. Herbert
Brookes, Bernard Ileinze and other music-
lovers helped to swell the applause.
There was a gathering of music lovers at
Winwick, the home of Mr. and Mrs. Herbert
Brookes, on Saturday night, in honor of
Vera Moore, and the Maoriland pianist,
encouraged by the congenial atmosphere,
gave quite a recital. The biscuit-hued old-
time frock of the player, which had golden-
brown flowers about the hem-line, blended
effectively with decorations of wattle. A
programme culled from works of Bach,
Brahms and some moderns was given to an
audience which included Mrs. Deakin,
Colonel and Mrs. T. W. White, Lennon Raws
and his lady and Mrs. Albert Miller. The
host introduced the talented guest of honor,
and Dr. Floyd returned thanks to the host
and hostess. Mrs. Brookes topped a gold-
embroidered black gown with a gold and
black bridge coat.
The piano recital of George Findlay,
whose blindness has not prevented him from
developing a polished technique, was in every
respect successful. The “Appassionata
Sonata” and the Cesar Franck “Variations
Symphoniques” were the big offerings. Jack
Simon, a youth of about 16 who promises
to climb high, played the second piano for
the Franck number with remarkable insight.
Muriel Cheek varied the evening with songs,
four of which were compositions of Mr.
Findlay, who was also represented by two
piano pieces.
Melbourne Hospital has as an ally a Red
Cross Auxiliary which, besides rendering ser-
vice in comforts and money to the insti-
tution, contributed last year £2OOO towards
the £50,000 appeal for additions. At the
annual meeting, a happening of last week,
Mayor Morell congratulated these women
supporters upon their help, and was echoed
by R. W. E. Wilmot, of the board of man-
agement, the matron (Miss Bell) and some
others.
There were farewells and good wishes
at Janet Qlarke Hall the other night over
the evening meal, when two graduates of the
local shop said good-bye to staff and students.
These clever maids, who have been awarded
travelling scholarships, are Miss B. Hitch-
cock, who was teaching at the college and
goes to the fount of it to complete her
knowledge of English literature, and Miss
B. Allan, a daughter of “Vesta,” of the
Argus, who is addicted to the higher mathe-
matics and proposes to spend her time at
Cambridge tracking X to his lair.
After several years in England and on the
European Continent Merlena Llewelis, known
to her native Ipswich (Q.) as Lena Hum-
phreys, has returned to Australia. She un-
packed a harp and a ’cello at the Assembly
Hall on Thursday night, and gave a vei*y
enjoyable recital. Of her harp selections, a
Ballade by Hasselmans that required some
deft fingering was her happiest offering.
The Boccherini Sonata in A major, a couple
of melodies by Percy Grainger and the popu-
lar Boellmann variations were among her
’cello numbers. The musician, who looks
very youthful, made a charming picture in
a brocade frock of cretonne pattern with a
glimmering waist-belt and hair bandeau.
Posies rewarded the musician and her accom-
panist, Violet Parkinson.
The Australian Literature Society, founded
29 years ago and still going strong, will
next year award its first annual gold medal
for the best novel writen by an Australian
during the preceding 12 months. The society
is endeavoring to increase its membership to
3000, and hopes to be able to set aside a
definite sum each year to assist and en-
courage local authors. The annual sub. is
only five bob, and a life membership can be
bought for three guineas: so it dosn’t cost
much to give the Art of Letters a boost.
A lot of tea and chatter is being poured
out at farewell gatherings to Marjorie and
Nancy Millear, who will mount the Aorangi’s
gangway with anticipations of 12 months of
sightseeing. They are travelling by way of
America to visit Joan Wilmot, now Mrs.
George Beamish, in her Boston home, bear-
ing with them a large bunch of remembrances
from friends in the homeland. After a sur-
vey of the British Isles they intend to sample
life in Norway, and a season of winter sports
in Switzerland is also on their programme.
Governor Somers intends to go to Queens-
land for a month at the end of July, and will
thereby miss some of the worst of the winter
in Vic. Lieut.-Governor Irvine, who is now
quite expert at the job, will be the Acting
Cocked Hat while his Ex. is away.
Meta Pelham, our oldest actress, has just
realised a long-sustained ambition. She
longed to play Mrs. Midget in “Outward
Bound,” and when the part was placed in
her hands for the Adelaide season she showed
young players a point by coming to the
second rehearsal word perfect. Her associ-
ates were troubled with blurred vision by the
pathos she infused into the role.
Among the crowd waving good-byes from
the Mooltan was Mrs. Dollie Champion, on
her way to join in London a son whose foot
has just been planted on the commercial
ladder. Also she has a date with her sister,
Mrs. Andrew Drummond, who is enjoying a
holiday in England. As a remembrance of
their late conductor’s many years of service
the Firm presented his widow with a cheque
for the sailing expenses.
Dr. D. Code, whose good work at Mont
Park Hospital occasionally receives public
recognition, is mourning the passing of his
mother, Harriet Wright Code, a lady who
has for over 60 years watched the growth
of South Yarra. In 1864 as a bride she
went to the home built by her husband’s
father, and she remained contentedly there
till the end. She was related to Joseph
Wright, the English artist, and her daughter
Blanche has inherited his skill with the
paint-brush.
When our Repertory Society made a fresh
start a couple of months ago under the
direction of Frank Clewlow, he recommended
Angel Symon, pictured here by Lafayette,
for the job of
lion. sec. The
lady was
appointed, and
the society has
been congratu-
lating itself
ever since. The
new secretary
hails from
Adelaide, and
first came in
touch with
theatrical
affairs as sec-
retary and
publicity di-
rector for
Allan Wilkie.
The burning
of the co.’s
props put an
end to that
venture for the time being, and Miss Symon
betook herself to Europe, where for three
years she made an intensive study of English
and (Continental drama, winding up with a
few weeks in New York, where she attended
theatres all the time. In London she gained
useful experience of repertory production
and management with the Tate Theatre
Salon and the Playroom Six, undertaking
secretarial duties with both organisations.
Melbourne’s popular teacher of verse-
speaking, Nellie Veitch, now in London,
sends a budget regarding the doingis of
Australians in the town on the Thames.
Lunching at Ada Crossley’s home at the end
of May, she met Gerald Marr Thomson, late
of the S. M. Herald. The trio later went
on to a farewell party given by Mrs. Mar-
riott to our Gertrude Johnson, who was
off to Paris to study French opera. Anne
Williams and some of her students supplied
vocal entertainment and Rose Quong, also
of Melbourne, recited. The big treat was the
singing of another Australian, Horace
Stevens, whose Elijah in oratorio and
Wogan in opera have set new British stan-
dards. One of the accompanists was Mrs.
Taylor Darbyshire, a Bananalander. Great
success was achieved by Rose Quong later
in the month at a recital given by an Anne
Williams pupil, Miss Lander.
The Archie Weigalls—he once governed
in S.A. —are about to revisit this country.
Lady Weigall has been an inmate of a
nursing home in London, and a long sea
voyage is the tonic ordered to restore her
health.
Mr. and Mrs. D. J. Le Roux, who have
attained fame by trundling a rubber-tyred
wheelbarrow —they set out from Johannes-
burg six years ago and have covered to date
13,068 miles —pulled up at the G.P.O. on
Thursday afternoon. The pair in their
khaki apparel and felt hats looked like boy
scout and girl guide oh a hike. The lady
has enjoyed the best of health during the
whole trek, but her partner, who looks
decidedly off color, was advised by medical
authority in Queensland to take a rest. But
lie insists on sticking it out till the self-
imposed folly is completed. It isn’t a wager
performance. The couple hope to reap their
reward by telling the story of their travels.


sdf
dsfg
EVERYWHERE people are talking of the great modern discovery—' “Cream of Yeast”-
that will produce a wonderful change from weakness and ill-health to Glowing Youth
and Vigour with phenomenal rapidity — in a few minutes or hours, according to the nature °f - .
the complaint! “Cream of Yeast” will stop aches, pains and depression almost instantly, giving an immediate feeling of fresh,
re-vitalised exhilaration! The discovery has produced numerous yeast products; but none of these can compare m any way
to genuine “ Cream of Yeast,” which is at once the greatest tonic pick-me-up and revitaliser known, and, results considered, is
by far the cheapest, as well as the most effective, available means of regaining healthy vigour and fresh, good looks.
16 Guaranteed Effects
Cream of Yeast—
Stops Headaches and Neu-
ralgia in 4 minutes.
Stops Influenza, Catarrh
Colds, Rheumatism, etc.,
within 15 hours.
Stops Acidity, Sourness and
Indigestion in 3 minutes.
Gives marked increase of
Forceful, Healthy Vigour in
15 minutes.
Stops Depression and Brain
Fag in 8 minutes.
Clears System of harmful ,
poisonous and acid wastes in
12 hours.
Stops Periodical Pains in 12
minutes.
Steadies Nerves in 10
minutes.
Clears Pimples and Erup-
tions usually within 2 days «
Sure Way to Thrilling Health
It has been proven that the brain, nerves and
blood need certain vital substances.
These substances, with vitamines, form the
foundations of Health and Strength even of
Life itself! Without this combination, con-
tinuous perfect health is impossible! It is
proven that yeast contains an element of
amazing restorative and life-giving power
but certain types of yeast are almost useless!
The value of the right kind of activated yeast
is clearly shown by “Cream of Yeast.” See,
when you take it, aches and pains vanish;
watch sickness disappear; see how quickly
the nerves become steady; how, instead of
being always weak and tired out, you regain
splendid zest, vitality, and youthful vim and
good looks!
The GREAT
Regulating Vitamine Tonic
“Cream of Yeast” is the result of consider-
able costly experimenting in the laboratories
of the greatest chemical organisation in the
world manufacturing any form of yeast tonic.
Before achieving its crowning triumph with
“Cream of Yeast,” this world-wide organisa-
tion made millions of yeast-vitamine tablets!
News of the great “Cream of Yeast” suc-
cess induced others to offer varied forms of
brewers’ yeast— quite different, and positively
inferior to “Cream of Yeast.” No other
form of yeast equals “Cream of Yeast.”
“Cream of Yeast” is the concentrated yeast-
vitamine tonic; it gives the best and quickest
results, and is safe! “Cream of Yeast” in-
vigorates and regulates. It makes aspirins,
purgatives and “anti-acids” old-fashioned in
its prompt, sure action in stopping aches,
pains and irregularities. It forms no habit!
IT IS SUPREMELY HEALTHFUL.
QUICK Results —No Waiting
No matter what your sickness may be, no
matter how long you’ve suffered or how much
faith you have in other remedies, try “Cream
of Yeast” just once! Better results are guar-
anteed, or the trial will cost you nothing.
A FIRM GUARANTEE!
You don’t risk a penny trying “Cream o£
Yeast”! It will give you brighter eyes,
rosier cheeks, clearer complexion, more rest-
ful sleep, a firm elastic step, the fresh, lively
spirit of Youth. It will free you from head-
aches and stomach troubles, from rheumatic
pains and the results of faulty elimination.
It will make you a NEW man or woman.
Simply get a-1/11 or a 3/6 bottle of “Cream
of Yeast” from the nearest chemist, grocer,
or store. Take as directed, and if you don’t
feel rejuvenated in mind and body—if not
perfectly satisfied —the price will be refunded
on application to the Amalgamated Labora-
tories, Kembla Building, Sydney. Thus you
are guaranteed a new lease of life and happi-
ness —or no cost at all! Don’t delay! Get
your supply NOW!
Three sizes:
1/11, 3/6 and
5/9.
Be Sure to Ask Your Chemist, Grocer, or Storekeeper for Genuine
1
Qhe Super
Teast GTonic!
% V>
COMPRESSED TABLETS OF
CREAM
OF
YEAST
The Perfect Yeast
"VS/itamine Tonic
Compound
SURE. SAFE
STRHNCTH CIVEK
urin. Car-
I Ordinary
mg Pams
Habu
c*
v-'
%c vC
u
THE WOMAN'S MIRROR'
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen tc
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price ------- 3d.
16.
BUTTONING UP THE PURSE
is an out-of-date phrase, but the principle holds good; yet
there is a better way of saving money than by merely refrain-
ing from spending it.
Money in your pocket, or your purse, is practically money
spent, for it is too readily available for every whim to buy
this or that unneeded trifle.
Save in the modern way. Open a Commonwealth
Savings Account and let the pounds and the shillings and the
pence work for you.
There is a Savings Bank Agency in every Post Office.
HoiKonwealtb lank of Ruslralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)


Queensland National
Bank Limited.
Head Office,
Brisbane, 11th July, 1928.
To the Shareholders of
The Queensland National Bank Limited.
The Directors now beg to submit the One-hundred and third Report with the
Balance-sheet duly certified by the Auditors.
The net profit for the year ended 30th June last, after allowing for
Rebate on Bills Current, Income Taxes,' Land Taxes, Interest
Accrued on Deposits and Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock,
reducing Bank Premises and Furniture Accounts £10,000, making
piovision for bad and doubtful Debts, and including Recoveries,
amounts to £201,959 9 8
To which is - to be' added amount brought forward from year ended
30th June, 1927 .. .. .. _ _ 13 851 7 1
Making a total of £215,810 16 9
Out of which Interim Dividends at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum
were paid for the Quarters ended 30th September, 1927, 31st
December, 1927, and 31st March, 1928, amounting to
And a transfer made to Reserve Fund of..
Leaving for Distribution
Which it is proposed to deal with as follows:—
Dmdend at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum for the Quarter
ended 30th June, 1928 43 743 19 q
(free of Queensland Income Tax and without deduction in
respect of Federal Income Tax of 1/- in £ payable by the
Bank)
Balance to be carried forward ..
£8,671 17 3
£52,420 16 3
During the year Branches of the Bank have been opened at Biloela and Mel-
bourne Street, South Brisbane (Queensland).
By Order of the Board,
M. G. HAYMEN,
General Manager.
128,390 0 6
£87,420 16 3
35,000 0 0
£52,420 16 3
The
The Queensland National Bank, Limited.
Balance-sheet as at 30th June, 1928.
Capital paid up £1,749,958 0 0
Reserve fund . . 785,000 0 0
Profit and Loss 52,420 16 3
Interminable In-
scribed Deposit
Stock.. .. 3,091,669 4 5
Bills payable and other liabilities
Deposits
£5,679,048 0 8
431,621 7 2
9,026,995 0 5
£15,137.664 8 3
Coin, bullion, Aus-
tralian Notes,
and cash at
bankers ..£1,403,704 16
British Treasury
Bills.. .. 250,000 0
Comm onwealth
Loans (at or
under market
value) .. 1,239,914 5
Government
Stocks:—
Queensland Gov-
ment.. .. 100,000 0
Victorian Gov-
ment (short
dated)
Cash Balances..
Bills remitted
and in transitu
Money in Lon-
don at call and
on short notice 170,000 0
400,000 0
114,331 8
704,249 10
2
0
0
0
0
8
9
0
£4,382,200 0 7
Advances to customers on current
account, bills discounted, and
other debts due to the bank. £10,229,184 17 9
Bank premises, furniture, and sta-
tionery 526,279 9 11
(Of the bank premises figures
£170,00-0 is revenue producing.)
£15,137,664 8 3
Profit and Loss Account,
for Year Ended 30th June, 1928.
Cr.
To Interim Divi-
dends paid 17th
Nov., 1927
16th Feb., 1928
17th May, 1928
£41,997
42,728
43,664
5
6
8
» Transfer to reserve fund
„ Balance at 30th June, 1928
9
9
0
£128,390 0
35,000 0
52,420 16
6
0
3
£215,810 16 9
By Balance from 30th June, 1927.. £13,851 7 1
~ Net profit for year ended 30th
June, 1928 201,959 9 8
£215,810 16 9
Reserve Fund.
Cr.
To Balance £785,000 0 0
£785,000 0 0
By Balance £750,000 0 0
„ Amount transferred from profit
for year ended 30th June, 1927.. 35,000 0 0
£785,000 0 0
JAMES LOVE, Chairman.
M. G. HAYMEN, General Manager.
We certify that in our opinion the above Balance-sheet is a full and fair one,
exhibiting a true statement of the affairs of the Bank as shown by the Books on
30th June, 1928.
W. BULCOCK, F.1.C.A., R. H. CUMMING, C.A., F.S.A.A., Auditors.
11th July, 1928.
The usual ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING of the Proprietors will be held at
the Banking House, Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland, on THURSDAY, 16th August
1928, at Noon.
BUSINESS: To receive the Report and Balance-sheet for the year ended 30th
June, 1928. To elect a Shareholders’ Director in the place of William Alfred Jolly
Esq., C.M.G., who retires in accordance with Clause 90 of the Articles of Association,
but is eligible for re-election and offers himself accordingly. To elect two Auditors
and fix their remuneration for the ensuing year.
Everyone agrees that the
Daily Newspaper is a
wonderful advertising medium,
And in the Great State of
QUEENSLAND
the morning daily that to-day stands out easily supreme is
THE DAILY MAIL
Whose net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be
greater than that of any other Queensland daily.
Manufacturers and business men who buy their advertising space in the
best market nowadays select ‘"The Daily Mail” as the first medium in
Queensland to carry their advertising messages. For further particu-
lars, Advertising Rates, etc., please apply to
ROBERT JACKSON, N.S.W. Branch Manager.
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
CLYNE HOUSE, 72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone 81522.
“THE AGE?
Established 185Jf.'
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
A Newspaper in which the spirit of Progress
and development abounds, and whose forceful
Editorials and Literary features provide a
wealth of interesting reading—both socially
and politically.
For 74 years this influential household publi-
cation has enjoyed an envious period of pros-
perity, and is an institution firmly established
in the regard of the Victorian people generally.
If you desire to keep closely in touch with
the news of the day, read
“THE AGE,”
whose vigorous articles and great political
principles—with its full and accurate reports
on all subjects having a genuine news value —
have made this publication an outstanding
newspaper in modern journalism.
“THE AGE” publishes over
1,000,000 advertisements
annually.
Price lid. per copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter, post free
within the Commonwealth.
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
El
r;
r
A GOOD GUN DESERVE'
A GOOD CARTRIDGE.
Be Sure You Use Only
ALL-BRITISH
CARTRIDGES
ELEY &
KYNOCH
Proved by the Most Experienced
Shooters to be the Best.
All British —
from Gap to
Turnover.
Obtainable at All
Gunsmiths
and Dealers
Throughout
Australasia.
«
a
NOBE
Public Notice.
SYDNEY EUCHARISTIC CONGRESS
'J'HE Accommodation during this period will be
unprocurable. Intending visitors should at once
make provision for this. We have arrangements with
many hotels and boarding-houses m and around
Sydney at tariffs to suit all pockets. These are filling
fast. For further information write to
ADVANCE ACCOMMODATIONS,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALASIAN ACCOMMODATION SPECIALISTS.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE . . 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
in
THE REGISTER,
which is read by all classes,
Proprietors:
W. K. THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
ERIC N. BIRKS, N.S.W. Representative.
Telephone WlB7.
G. N. BEDNALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.
THE
“QUEENSLANDER”
QUEENSLAND’S GREATEST
PICTURE WEEKLY.
Everyone interested in the Queen
State of the Commonwealth should
make a habit of seeing the “Queens-
lander” regularly.
Pictures and news items from every
corner of the State', as well as fea-
tures for every member of the family
are included.
Free specimen copy and subscription
form on application to
The Brisbane News-
paper Co., Ltd.,
Publishers of the
“BRISBANE COURIER,”
“SPORTS REFEREE,”
“Courier” Building, Queen Street,
Brisbane,
Or
SYDNEY REPRESENTATIVE:
ROBT. D. FISHER,
Colonial Mutual Chambers,
74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone 85007.
THE mercury;
Tasmania’s Leading Daily
Newspaper.
ESTABLISHED 74 YEARS.
“The Illustrated
Tasmanian Mail”
(Published Wednesdays).
ESTABLISHED 51 YEARS.
No advertising campaign is
complete without including
Tasmania’s leading journals,
as both circulate extensively
over the whole of the State.
DAVIES BROS., LTD.,
Head Office: Macquarie St., Hobart.
SYDnEy^DFFICE:
F. L. WILSON, 228 Pitt Street.
’Phone MA3161.
MELBOURNE OFFICE:
“Argus” Building, Elizabeth Street.
LONDON OFFICE:
A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street, E.C.4.


Makes
New Running Cars
of Middle-Aged Cars!
Avoids 80%
of Repair Bills
Repair men know that many
good cars grow old before
their time. From one chief
cause —lack of proper lubri-
cation.
Then come big repair bills.
(Tabulated reports show
80% of all repairs are due to
neglected or improper lubri-
cation!)
But now every car owner can avoid
this. A new lubricating system makes
it possible. A tested system that is
employed on 15,000,000 of the
world’s cars today.
High Pressure Lubrication
The Alemite system is built for high
pressure lubrication. To force clean,
fresh lubricant entirely through the
bearings—to force old, worn-out lu-
bricant entirely out of the bearings.
This efficient high-pressure lubri-
cation works wonders with every car.
Renews the riding qualities and com-
fort of middle-aged cars so they seem
like new. And it eliminates the cause
of 80% of motor car repairs —if
g
*ss? RS 90 to too 000
1 ceptiraXPerfonnancg «£■«»
capable of n 5? oti and it is
miles— due fn lngr many more
so « of having £ ne main rea-
"*u^^ a iir a
'yyyrrr^T-^-^J^ J - Patera
you will but tend to it every 500
miles or so.
Your Car Can Be Alemite -
equipped, at Small Cost
If your car is already equipped with
this money-saving system, use it
every 500 miles and you’ll cut the
cost of operating your car anywhere
from a half-penny to a penny half-
penny a mile.
If your car is not so equipped, the
installation of Alemite fittings can
be made quickly and at a surprising-
ly low cost. A fitting costing only a
few pennies will save a bearing
worth many pounds. The Bassick
Manufacturing Company, Division
of Stewart-Warner, Chicago, U. S. A.
The Alemite Fittings
Modern dust-proof Alemite and
Alemite-Zerk fittings for chassis
bearings. Lubricant is shot
through them under high pres-
sure to the heart of the bearing.
Old grease and grit thus forced
out —clean new lubricant sur-
rounds the entire bearing.
Alemite Compressors
To conform to fittings, com-
pressors come in two styles—
Alemite and Alemite-Zerk. The
Alemite Compressor forces lu-
bricant through bearing by
twisting handle—the Alemite-
Zerk "gun” by a simple thrust-
ing motion.
The Alemite-ed Bearing
Cut-open view of lubricated
bearing. Note how lubricant
under pressure forces way en-
tirely through bearing.
No. 831.
High Pressure Lubrication
©T. B. M. Co. Keg. U. S. Pat. Off.
Amusements
THE REGENT
Australia’s Most Luxurious Theatre.
(Direction Hoyt’s Theatres, Ltd.)
The Home of
the Superior Motion Picture
and the Effective Presentation.
Last Week of “The Battles of Coronet and the Falkland Islands.”
Coming July 28, “The Garden of Allah,” with. Alice Terry and Ivan Petrovitck.
UMPIRE THEATRE,
Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square,
Nightly at 8. Matinees Thursdays & Saturdays, 2.15.
Great New York Golfing Story,
TOP HOLE.
With Van Loive, Renee Dixon, Blanche Jones, Russell
Scott, Audrey Lewis, Fred Bluett, Violet Elliott
and All-Star Cast.
The Famous Empire Pony Ballet and Beauty Chorus.
Week Nights: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6, 7/6. Sat. Nights: 3/3,
5/6, 8/6. Matinees: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6. Children: 1/-,
1/6, 2/6. Reserves: Theatre, MAIOOO, and all city
Booking Offices.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J, C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: GRAND OPERA.
ROYAL: THE SILENT HOUSE.
CRITERION: SEXES AND SEVENS.
PALACE:
THE LAUGHING OPTIMIST.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
A LLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-
WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SHAKSPEARE.
In preparation: “Henry IV.” (Parts I and II),
“Richard II.”
In Season, MAJESTIC THEATRE, NEWTOWN.
Sydney Rep.: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229, Sydney.
’Phone: MA1277.
I c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
*'• MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: THE GIRL FRIEND.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE PATSY.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE.
THE HIGH ROAD.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
ATHENAEUM THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING.
E. J. Carroll presents, by arrangement with Richard
White and Erie Edgley, the Hilarious Comedy,
NEW RROOMS.
Starring the Beautiful Young Artist
LEONA HOGARTH.
LJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
WHY SAILORS GO WRONG..
With SAMMY COHEN and TED McNAMARA.
AT.SO
JOHN GILBERT in
MAN, WOMAN AND SON.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SHIRLEY MASON in
The Master Picture,
SALLY IN OUR ALLEY.
Box Plan at Allans’ & Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 k 7790.
KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
William Anderson presents the Australian Comedy,
THE RUDD FAMILY.
Missing Friends.
INFORMATION is sought as to the where-
-1 abouts of THEODORE RYAN and
MINNIE EAMES (nee Ryan) last heard of
in Brisbane, Queensland, the brother and
sister respectively of the late John Ryan.
If the abovementioned persons will communi-
cate with the undersigned they will hear
something to their advantage.
NORTON SMITH & CO., Solicitors, 39
Hunter Street, Sydney.
4i THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE
3ti.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Mrs. T. J. Ryan, in black mariette, pre-
sented 22 buds to Archbishop Duliig at the
Catholic Ball, which was held in Smellie’s
building, bepurpled and wistaria-trimmed,
with palms and gay balloons. There were over
a thousand dancers. Some very pretty frocks
were worn by the dainty debs. The Coun-
tess di san Marzano wore pastel-pink mari-
ette ; Mrs. Keogh, of the reception commit-
tee, was in gold lamg and lace; Mrs. W. E.
Harvey wore black satin and Mrs. J. Coman
black mariette. A dais of purple and gold
was set up for the Archbishop, and his sup-
per table was .gay with pink roses in silver
vases. The debs.’ table was decked with a
two-tier cake and vases of Iceland poppies
and roses. The proceeds go to Catholic
charities.
A kiddies’ dance was a celebration for the
twenty-first year of the Creche and Kinder-
garten’s sway.' The Centennial Hall was
the scene of the affair and Marjorie Hollins-
lied, Doreen Kelly and Thelma Robertson
arranged the grand march, their pupils later
giving a dance display. Mrs. Charles Elliot,
Mrs. Cowlisliaw and Mrs. Harry Clarke
judged the dresses, Billy Spiller gaining the
prize for best dressed girl-—she was an Eastern
princess. A cake with 21 candles was given
by Webster’s with a golden token inside, and
slices were sold to help the funds. Amongst
the throng were the Herrings, Mrs. Stable
and her boys, Mrs. Will liugall, Mrs. Hope
Michod, Royale Journeaux and Betty
Anning.
Cedarglen, Hillview, saw the wedding of
James, only son of the Waldrons of Glen-
cairn, Lamington, to Helen Mary, younger
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Edgar Stephens,
of Cedarglen. The verandahs were enclosed
with tree-ferns and flowers, and from a leafy
arch a peach-blossom wedding bell hung. The
bride was in ivory mariette, her veil banded
with orange blossoms. Her shower bouquet
was of roses and Iceland poppies. Bride-
groom’s sister Nancy and Thelma Hawkins
’maided in ivory mariette over pink, with pink
tulle caps, and Victorian posies of pink
sweet-peas. Fifty guests came to the wed-
ding breakfast.
Toowoomba is on the eve of having an
B.C. bishop whose see will be in the Darling
Downs. The votes of the local priesthood
have been cast. The names of candidates
voted for are usually sent to Rome, but as
the Eucharistic Congress will be held in
Sydney in September, Cardinal Cerretti, as
the Pope’s plenipotentiary, may then endorse
the appointment.
The theatrical Carrolls, E. J. and Dari,
hail, like Sydney’s city railway engineer, Dr.
Bradfield, from Bananaland's Ipswich ; and
one of the family, Tim Carroll, still lives
there —he is the manager of the Queensland
N a t ional
Bank. His in-
terest in en-
tertainment is
purely ama-
teur, but lie
helped to form
the Ipswich
Choir, which
li as wo n
enough Aus-
tralian com-
petitions t o
make itself
famous and
still officiates
as its trea-
surer. In addi-
tion he is a
big figure in
most public
movements in
li i s district.
In his younger
days, in the
’nineties, the man who looks at you here
through his glasses was a well-known ath-
lete and a representative footballer.
NORTHERN TERRITORY.
Darwin.
The annual Children’s Fancy Dress Ball
was held in the Town Hall. The costumes
were cleverly designed, and the judges had
a difficult task. Finally, a moonlight fairy,
a jazz pierrette, a lettuce salad, a green frog
and a pair of walking and talking dolls, in
their boxes, were sorted out for rewards.
Pat Gurry and his family, who had in-
tended leaving by the June boat, postponed
their departure till July, and have been
receiving a series of farewells, private and
public, during the last few weeks. The O.T.
Mess, with which Mr. Gurry, as P.M.G.,
lias been connected for years, gave a great
party to him and Vin Rowe (also trans-
ferred), and the Anglican Church, for which
the family have been valued workers, fare-
welled Mrs. Gurry, the parishioners handing
to her a travelling rug.
Robert Walker, Mayor of Parap, has
married Ivy Lugg, of Ballarat. More than
100 guests sat down to the wedding break-
fast, which was held in the Soldiers’ Hall.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Our elderly citizens have been given an
opportunity of demonstrating their dancing
ability, and have shown no lack of energy.
Mrs. W. T. Mortlock, gowned in silver lame
studded with diamente and silver,- was among
the gay dancers at the Mayoral Ball and held
her own with the flappers. The hop was the
first of the series of three catering for age,
youth and childhood respectively. The Gov-
ernor and Lady Hore-Rutliven were present
with their suite, her Ex. looking well in black
georgette skirt and pink bodice roped with
pearls. Mayoress Bonython wore a charming
gown of all-over jetted black georgette, with
pink-beaded godets, bordered with diamente.
Black, especially in beaded georgette, was
chosen by many. Violets, daffodils and sweet-
peas figured in the decorations, and the supper
was on generous lines. The two pretty Bony-
thon girls were frocked one in white taffeta
striped in gold-green and red, with white
chiffon underskirt, and the other, Ada, in
shrimp-pink georgette and diamente.
The Bankers’ Ball drew all the myrmidons
of finance to the Palais Royal. If the army
of pretty girls present were members of bank-
ing staffs it’s evident that banking isn’t quite
such a dull business as it used to be. The
managers came along in full force with their
wives and daughters, and behaved as genially
as if they had never refused an overdraft in
their lives. The committee had arranged for
all sorts of special turns, and the night was
a merry one.
Mrs. Kate Helen Weston, pictured here,
is press secretary of this city’s National
Council of Women and one of its delegates to
the annual
conference o f
the council
which opened
in Sydney on
Monday. A
native of Bal-
larat, she has
achieved fame
as a writer,
three novels
from her pen
having been
published prior
to the war.
Her latest
work, “A
Vagabond
Sou 1,” has
been accepted
by H u tch i-
son’s, and is
due to make
its appearance
at the end of the year. She is a clever
journalist, and acts as musical critic for
several newspapers.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The visit of the Japanese training ships
stirred us up considerably and things were
quite lively during their short stay. Enter-
tainments included an official dinner at Gov-
ernment House, a civic reception and a very
successful luncheon given by the Chamber
of Commerce, at which, for the first time,
women figured among the guests. Many
private entertainments and motor tours were
also arranged for the visitors. The Tom
Murdochs gave a smart little dinner party.
There was less difficulty for hosts and host-
esses than on former occasions when the
Japanese have visited us, because of the
numbers of officers who now have a know-
ledge of English. Prince Takamatsu, who
stayed at Government House as the guest
of the O’Grady, speaks our tongue very well,
and his aide-de-camp is quite fluent.
By way of a return of hospitality Admiral
Kobayashi entertained about 250 folk on
board the Idzumo, when the guests were
delighted with many novelties. Margaret
O'Grady was among the guests, also Pre-
mier McPhee and Mrs. McPhee, Commander
and Mrs. Eardley Wilinot, the C.J. and his
lady, the Attorney-General and Mrs. Baker,
many Ministers and a host of private indi-
viduals.
The R.A.N. Reserve did its guests remark-
ably well at the annual ball. Crimson car-
pets, flags and greenery made one forget
the chilly winter night outside. On the
supper tables mirrors reflected daffodils and
narcissi, with one large centre piece of scar-
let poppies. His Ex. and Margaret O’Grady,
the latter in beaded flame-red georgette,
included in their party Commander J. C.
McFarlane, Lieut.-Col. Cox Taylor and his
wife, and many officers of the reserve and
their womenfolk.
The National Federation of Women
sprang a surprise on Premier McPhee, who
was invited as principal guest at an American
tea. It was his fiftieth birthday, and not a
single candle was omitted from the big cake
that caught his eye as soon as he sat down.
Mrs. Mary Parker, patroness of the new
branch, whose birthday fell upon the same
date, was honored in the same way, but there
were no wax-drippings on her cake. Mayor
and Mayoress Wignall, Attorney-General
Baker, Mrs. Walter Taylor, John Evans
and his lady, Senators Ogden and Hayes and
a host of others were there.
Allan Clinch, our Rhodes Scholar for 1910,
has returned to the Speck after an absence
of eight years, and has brought back with
him a wife, many academic honors and a
lot of engineering experience gained in Eng-
land and the Sudan.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
There were scudding grey clouds above the
South Perth links on President’s Day, but
they withheld their watery contents. Lady
Campion and Mrs. Kerr-Pearse came to tea
in the clubhouse, decorated for the occasion
with Iceland poppies and violets. The pre-
sident, Mrs. Hubert Evans, presented
trophies won by Mrs. G. Edwards and Mrs.
Bob Dickson.
The drawing-room at the Esplanade was
decorated and perfumed with tall gladioli and
roses for an afternoon tea party in honor
,of Senator Pearce’s lady. General Jess’s
’wife was hostess, wearing a beige tailor-
made and felt hat. The Federal Minister’s
wife was in black mariette and a black satin
and velvet hat.
For her marriage with Bill Broun at St.
Mary’s Jocelyn Compton chose milk-white
lace, with long sleeves and a skirt dipping
anklewards at the back, with a flutter of
tulle for a veil. The bridegroom’s sister
Gertrude attended in shell-pink georgette
ornamented with a transparent hem and
miniature pastel-tinted flowers.
Barbara Cooling chose white beaded
georgette when she visited St. Mary’s to
exchange vows with Jack Stewart. * Her
train was of exquisite old Honiton lace and
her veil a fairy mist of tulle.


pm
3
Wt .
1
in JELLY
Note tfie delicate aroma
as you open tfte can,
In buying food, quality should be the first
consideration.
REX-PYE is the finest meat in the world.
Note the delicate aroma as you open the can and
the delicious flavour as you eat the dainty. '
The wise housewife has REX-PYE always in
stock for cold lunches, for her own mid-day meal
and for those many occasions when something nice
is wanted at short notice. It is also delicious
served hot.
In lib. and % lb caws
FOGGITT JONES PTv IT®
(Division oF United Provisions Ltd)
Curers of the choice Rex Hams and Bacon


is quickly conquered
with
FORMAMINT
Throat Tablets
3/6 per bottle
cf all chemists
Genatosan
Ltd
X®
Where Perfect Cuisine, Beautiful
Surroundings and the Spirit of
Revelry Combine to Make a
Memorable Evening’s Enjoyment.
Come Soon :: Come To-night.
You’ll be glad you came.
MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY,
THURSDAY, FRIDAY.
DINNER DE LUXE. 7.30 12/6
SUPPER, from 10 o’clock 8/6
SATURDAY-
LATE NIGHT OF DISTINCTION.
A Superb Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
Special Supper, 10 o’clock .. 12/6
True Relaxation, Substituting Joy and Delight.
DELIGHTFUL TEA DANSANT, WITH
SPARKLING CABARET,
3 to 5,4/- ; 6 up, 3/6.
Saturday, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
Make die Grosvenor
vow Adelaide Home
4
V
S»L
Over 300 taste-
fully furnished
rooms, spacious
writing room,
cheerful lounge,
beautiful dining
hall, perfect
cuisine; every
attention. Ade-
laide’s largest,
most modern
hotel. Tariff
from £3 107-
weekly.
Write for infor-
mation booklet.
sgROSVENOR
r iddelmdes Finest Unlicensed Jtotel
Onn Railway Sm.. North Terrace. <MSwift -Manager^
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Offices
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
Shades on Imlay
By J.H.M. ABBOTT
the white hull and tall spars of the graceful
yacht caught the level rays of the declining
sun, as she lay at anchor near the whaling-
station at Bast Boyd. She was really almost
all that remained to her owner of his former
glories. The long, low facade of the Sea
Horse Hotel at West Boyd, and the square
lighthouse on the south headland of Twofold
Bay, whose lamp was never lit, were to re-
main for generations as memorials of his
dreams and their non-fulfilment; but they
were no longer his. They are still there,
and probably nowhere else in Australia exist
such melancholy tombstones of buried hopes.
As Mr. Boyd disappeared indoors, the
coxswain of the Wanderer’s boat also came
ashore. To the four oarsmen lie gave terse
instruction not to follow his example.
“If any of ye leaves her for a minute,
’tis a d—d good belting lie’ll get the first
chance I have o’ giving it to him. So mind
that, now, an’ stay where ye are. I’ll bo
in plain sight o’ ye—so no little games.
Mr. Boyd won’t be back for a good hour,
but don’t think for to take a holiday on that
account, for I’ll have me eyes upon ye, ye
swine. Keep that in y’r thick heads.”
Mr. George Larraper was in many ways
a remarkable man. He was six-feet-six in
height, about threo-feet-eight round the chest,
and more than ordinarily good-looking. The
fringe of brown beard lie wore below his
IF you stand on the top of the hill where
the little village of Eden —the one in New
South Wales —looks north and south over
the two broad waters of Twofold Bay, lying
in all their blue loveliness on either side of
the jutting peninsula that divides them, and
is accountable for the name of the big
neglected harbor at your feet, one object of
the distant scenery will impress itself upon
you beyond all others. It is the great vol-
canic cone of Mount Imlay, standing up abovo
the wooded blue-green ranges a dozen miles
away to the south-westward.
A beautiful mountain is Imlay, built on
the same architectural lines as Captain
Cook’s “Pigeon House,” a hundred miles up
the coast in the hinterland of Ulladulla. The
old lava core sticks up through its peaked
roof, and the shoulders of its more ancient
crater are plainly visible a third of the way
down the slopes on either side, as you look
from Eden. From every angle the mountain
has much the same aspect —whether from
Mallacoota in Victoria, from the lighthouse
on Green Cape, or from the ranges inland to
the westward. But if its shape hardly
varies as seen from each point of the com-
pass, the lights and shades on its blue slopes
are always changing. Between its cold indigo
silhouettes in the dawn and at evening, it
has a hundred phases of light and shadow,
and there is none of them that is not
beautiful. An artist might stand all day,
from sunrise to sunset, gazing at Imlay,
and not be certain of its most characteristic
tone. It is never quite the same from one
half-hour to another.
The name of the mountain commemorates
three men who were the real pioneers of
the district, though but for the fact that it
is so named memory of them has almost faded
away. They were the three brothers George,
Peter and Alexander Imlay. Governor Gipps
refers to them in a despatch to the Colonial
Office of 1844. “The Messrs. Imlay,” he
says, “were the first and for some years the
exclusive settlers at Twofold Bay, and, miich
to their credit, lived on peaceable terms with
the aborigines. The natives at their estab-
lishment were encouraged to habits of indus-
try and employed in whaling, stock-keeping,
bullock-driving and other useful pursuits.
Dr. Imlay, from 'whom I received every
requisite assistance and attention, spoke in
commendable terms of the natives.
Gratuitous medical assistance to the natives
is afforded at Mr. Boyd’s establishments
and at the Messrs. Imlays’; the latter at
present are the sole occupants of the Big-
gah country.” Biggah is now spelled Bega.
and when the station belonged to Dr. George
Imlay it had an area of 1500 square miles,
or 960,000 acres. The doctor shot himself
accidentally at the end of 1846; Alexander
died in Svdney early in the following year;
and in 1853 Peter sold the stations of Bega
and Double Creek, and took his departure
for Maoriland. This was the end of the
story of the Imlays so far as the Twofold
Bay district is concerned, but there is no
doubt that to them belongs the credit —even
more than to Ben Boyd—of the pioneering
of this part of Australia. The great moun-
tain is worthily named.
* * * *
Late on a fine October afternoon in 1849
a boat grounded on the beach in Snug Cove,
on the Eden side of Nullica Bay, and Mr.
Benjamin Boyd, of Boyd Town, on the
opposite shore, landed from it, and walked
up to the Custom House. He had come to
get clearance papers for his yacht Wanderer,
and this was to be his last appearance in
the place. For the glories of Boyd Town
had come to an end, and he was preparing to
sail for the Californian diggings with an
optimistic idea of retrieving the fortunes
that had gone astray in Australia. Across
the great length of blue water lying between
the north and south shores of the wide hey.
“‘But George,’ she whispered tearfully. ‘l’m too fat!'"
“‘Fat be d — d!’ he exclaimed. ‘Come outside an take a look at Imlay. No shades
— nothin’ but sunshine.’”
chin —after the fashion of the time .and that
of his master —framed a face that was hand-
some in a classic style. Every inch of lnm
he looked a fighting man, and the reputation
that was his in the settlement across the
waters and throughout the ' whaling fleet
that came and went from East Boyd Bay
was one that amply confirmed the impression
conveyed by his appearance. He was Ben
Boyd’s personal attendant, bodyguard and
general factotum, and if lie encountered any-
one not prepared to accord to that gentleman
attributes that were almost divine, it was
usually unfortunate for the individual in
question. Mr. Larraper admitted no argu-
ment on the point, and was ever ready to
make clear that this was so.
He walked up the grassy hill to the left
of the Cove, and halted before a neat stone
cottage, in front of which a colorful English
garden was fenced from the roadway by a
little enclosure of- white pickets. Here he
stood, and began to sing, in A loud and
tuneless bass voice:—
“Ow, don’t yer re-member sweet. Alice, Ben Bolt,
Sweet Alice with ha-ir so brown ?”
until the front door of the cottage opened,
and a pretty girl came out into the garden
and stood looking at him for a moment or
two, with a smile dimpling her face, be-
fore she walked down to the gate and went
out into the road to join him. Whereupon
Mr. Larraper put his great arm about her
shapely shoulders, and began to walk her
down the hill until they came to the shade
of a tall eucalyptus, where they sat them-
selves on the trunk of a fallen dead tree,
so that they faced the sunlit waters of the
great bay and the distant, high, opalescent
slopes of Mount Imlay.
“Well, Lai, me girl,” said the big man,
looking down into her upturned face, “we’re
off on our travels, an’ I’ve coom for to say
good-bye. Th’ Wanderer sails at day-'
dawn, an’ Mr. Boyd lie’s over yonder to th’
Custom House, a-fixin’ up her papers. An
hour lie said he’d be about th’ job, so that s
just th’ time I’ve got to spend with you.
Let’s make th’ most of it!”
She nestled closer to him, and began to
play with the ends of the red bandanna
handkerchief that circled the massive column
of his throat. He pressed her tighter to his
side, so that she gasped a little from the
hug of his arm.
“Oil, Georgie,” she said, “you're crushing
me like a bear, so I can scarce breathe. Let
up a little, do. And where was it you told
me you were going? Is Mr. Boyd done
with Boyd Town? Done altogether?”
“Aye, lass, for th’ present, at any rate.
Things h’ been agin him. Money’s got
scai’ce, an’ some o’ them sharks in Sydney
an’ Lunnon they’ve put a squeeze upon him,
an’ lie’s had for to hand over th place to
’em. But don’t you fear —we’ll coom back.
There never was a one of ’em had it in him
for to best our Ben. We’re a-goin’ to Sydney,
an’ then to Californy for to make our fortins.
That won’t take long. He’s a rare un, Ben
is, when it cooms to raisin’ th’ wind. So
you bide here, an’ wait an’ see. Two year
he gives himself for to go an’ get all th’
gold he wants. An’ then he’ll coom back,
an’ make a braver show than ever. Trust
him! There was never a thing yet that
man couldn’t do. Never a thing. If he
says he’ll do it, lie’ll do it—don t you i make
no mistake. You put y’r faith in Ben Boyd.
“Maybe, Georgie,” the girl said seriously
—“maybe. If you can trust him, I can
too, I suppose. But ’tis you I trust most,
Georgie, dear” —she half whispered, as if
fearful of revealing too much of what she
thought—“look down there, beyond the Sea
Horse —look at the mountain. Isn t_ it grand
and glorious? Doesn’t it look as if it had
always been there, and always would be t
Look at it, Georgie! Look at Mount Imlay,
with the sunset on it.”
The big man lifted up his eyes, and gazed
with her across Nullica Bay to where the
blue pyramid of the mountain was taking
on a tinge of golden-pink in the last of the
sunlight. Very light and ethereal it looked,
and almost transparent, against the yellow
tones of the sky to-the south-westward. A
dark band of mountain and forest lay be-
tween the gleaming waters of the bay and
its wide base, and accentuated its iridescence,
so that it seemed almost as if it were float-
ing in the evening sky above the sombre
surface of the world about it.
“Fine I” he nodded slowly. “It do stand
up solid, don’t it?” , , .
“ Tis everlasting,” she whispered, shyly
—“like my love for you, Georgie. Look,
dear man, the shades are coming down over
it, and presently ’twill be dark against the
starline. But it will still be there. You will
go away presently, and the shadows will
come down over me for a little while; but
you will still be somewhere in the world
and though it may seem dark and dreary
with you gone, I’ve only got to think of how
the shades that hide the mountain don’t put
it out and hide it for always, to feel sure
inside myself that you're not gone from me
altogether. And if you think of the mountain
while you’re away from me, all bright and
beautiful in sunlight, you’ll be reminded of
our love, and know it still exists, and’s never
going to die. Whatever shades come down
over our lives, they’re only like the shades
on Imlay—gone with the morning sun. You
think of Mount Imlay, Georgie, whiles you’re
away from me, and remember that I’m here
looking at it, and knowing every time I do
so that it’s going to draw you back to me.
’Tis Imlay will steer my man back again
to Twofold Bay—and me.”
A coo-ee came from the white boat down
in Snug Cove, and presently he was gone.
The mountain loomed darkly against the
stars before she ceased to l gaze across at the
lights on the other side of the bay. where
the Wanderer lay off the mouth of the Kiali
River.
* * * *
That was in 1849, and it was to a very
different Eden that Mr. George Larraper
returned in the latter half of 1862. In
the thirteen years that had elapsed between
those two dates the place had changed and
grown and improved almost out of his recog-
nition. When he had known it of old, all
there was about it of any note or import-
ance lay upon the south side of Nullica
Bay, where the strenuous activities of Boyd
Town and East Boyd contrasted strikingly
with the non-activity of the little Govern-
ment town above Snug Cove, where only a
few officials lived a perfunctory existence,
and nothing ever happened. Now, when he
came ashore from the Wonga Wonga on
a morning in early summer at the landing-
place below the new town on the hill, he
found himself in the midst of a busy com-
mercial centre whose prosperity was in the
utmost contrast with the ruinous decay
across the waters. Ben Boyd’s settlement
was dead and almost forgotten. Eden was
at the zenith of a prosperity which has since
declined into that of a place whose principal
asset is its scenery.
The white gables of the Sea Horse Hotel
shone out against the dark forest above tue
long strip of beach across, the bay, the red
church tower stood up above the trees on
the hill behind it, the massive, unused light-
house on the southern headland still stood
foursquare on its windy eminence these
were all that was left to record the dreams
and aspirations of Ben Boyd, long since
mysteriously vanished from the ken of ms
fellows in the depths of a Solomon Island
jungle. But there was an active and effi-
cient lighthouse at Lookout Point on the
Eden side, and stores and shops and hotels,
and a population that had increased more
than a hundredfold. Forty people had lived
there in ’49, when there were two hundred
across the waters. Over there, in ’62, there was
nothing more than the ruins of Boyd Town
—Alexander Davidson had not yet com-
menced his whaling activities at the mouth
of the Kiali River. Oswald Brierly’s pretty
cottage was still standing at East Boyd,
but there were no ships in the bay below it,
whilst in and off Snug Cove Mr. Larraper
had counted nearly a score of craft at
anchor.
“Lord!” he muttered to himself, as he
walked up the hill in the direction he had
taken when last he landed in the Cove.
“D —n my soul, but I’m glad Ben Boyd s
not here to see this! Twould break his
(Continued on page 53.)


DmV&Mxfari
IhSUpafiers
ereate the atmosphere ofi
the past or the present
These modern wallpapers will also correct
building defects, warm cold rooms—sub-
N due overlighted ones, add height or de-
crease it, and add generally charm
and elegance.
••••,• •••:: _. /M.Wi
mm
i ri
m
m*
mm
b
Hi
mm
mas
;«s
f.ssfcs
:St:sa<
;X;.Xy
3®
*s2B?
II
IS!
W-M
sSSs
P&Wiis|
SSkKSSc
Si
The Public
(the best judge)
is buying
the
New
Season’s
Designs
in
Tapestries
Satin Finishes
Leathers
Burlaps
Oatmeals
Polychromes
with
Style Borders
for Panelling.
JOHN DANKSg SON Pty. Ltd.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
A
New
►Energy
with Sanatogi
en
Energy, bodily health and nerve strength!
These are the secrets of those happy,
exceptional days when "everything seems
to go right,” when you have an unwonted
feeling of vigour.
With Sanatogen you will work better,
feel better, and be able to enjoy your
leisure hours to the full.
Start to-day with
SANATOGEN
The True Tonic- Food
At all Chemists—from 3/9 per tin.
GENATOSAN LTD.. LOUGHBOROUGH. ENGLAND.
Ufye SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER-HARVESTER
12ft. Cut.
Self
Propelled.
4-Cylinder
Power Unit
Incorporated.
£> i
..
m
m
;S*
•■•A'
Cuts Its Own
Tracks,
No Need for
Binder.
No Crop
Wasted.
crops.
Will rescue the grain from badly-lodged and thistle-infested
A fair day’s work = 40 acres in a ten-bag crop.
The cost in fuel = 8 to 10a cres on 4 gallons of petrol.
Besides its efficiency in harvesting the standing crop, the Sunshine Auto Header-Harvester does splendid
work as a Stationary Thrasher at the stack.
Also the Engine is available for general belt work throughout the year.
Write for descriptive literature, price and particulars of extended terms.
H. V. McKAY PTY, LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne. 102-105 North Terrace, Adelaide.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney. Cor. Murray & King Streets, Perth.
H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.


Hold
She Keeps Her
on Youth!
Into the noonday of life she has carried the glory of her youth. The
leaping pulse of perfect health, the beauty of yesteryear still are hers.
Pyorrhea, which afflicts so many over forty, has passed her by. In
its blighting touch Pyorrhea is akin to age. Its infecting germs deplete
vitality. They cause the gums to recede, the lips to lose their contour,
the teeth to loosen and decay.
Take care that this enemy of health and beauty does not become
established in your mouth. Watch for it. Visit your dentist often for
tooth and gum inspection ,
If you have tender or bleedin_ gums (the first symptom of Pyorrhea;
use Forhan’s for the Gums .
Forhan’s for the Gums will prevent Pyorrhea—or check its progress
if used in time and used consistently. Ordinary dentifrices cannot do
this. Forhan’s keeps the gums firm and healthy, the teeth white and clean.
. HOW TO USE FORHAN’S.
Use it twice daily, year in and year out. Wet your brush in cold
water, place a half-inch of the refreshing, healing paste on it, then brush
your teeth up and down. Use a rolling motion to clean the crevices.
Brush the grinding and back surfaces of the teeth. Massage your gums
with your Forhan-coated brush—gently at first until the gums harden,
then more vigorously. If the gums are very tender, massage with the
finger instead of the brush. If gum shrinkage has already set in, use
Forhan’s according to directions, and consult a dentist immediately for
special treatment.
FORHAN’S COMPANY, NEW YORK.
Price 2/- and 3/6. Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores, or will
be sent post free upon receipt of the price by
the Australasian Agents, Sheldon Drug
Co., Ltd., I 3 1 Clarence
St., Sydney, N.S.W.
$7
£3
'■Sr
ee
m.
ar iD
£ V) §
cs
“Infill
’ Q 1,. SIsSS
itil
ForharVg
FOR THE GUMS
Checks Pyorrhea
The Royal Agricultural Society
of Victoria.
Grand Annual Exhibition.
NINE DAYS.
Thursday, 20th, to Saturday, 29th
September, 1928.
COMPREHENSIVE DISPLAY OF STOCK,
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCE AND
INDUSTRIAL EXHIBITS.
SIXTY ACRES OF INTENSE INTEREST.
LIBERAL PROGRAMME OF PRIZES, amount-
ing to over £BOOO (including Champion
Prizes of Australia).
COMPETITIVE ENTRIES (except Ring Events)
CLOSE SATURDAY, AT NOON, 18th AUG.
ENTRIES FOR ARENA EVENTS CLOSE
SATURDAY, AT NOON, Ist SEPTEMBER.
MEMBER’S SUBSCRIPTION, COVERING
BADGE AND TWO LADIES’ TICKETS
AND GENERAL PRIVILEGES, £l/10/-
per annum.
LIFE MEMBER’S SUBSCRIPTION, £l5/15/-
EXTRA LADIES’ TICKETS, 10/0 each.
PRIZE SCHEDULES, ENTRY FORMS, ETC.,
ON APPLICATION.
HENRY SCHWIEGER, Secretary-
Note Address: Temple Court, 9th Floor,
422 Colltns Street, Melbourne.
Keep hopping snd hoping if you wish
to succeed .think of
' SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuu.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
dg
dg
GIVE YOUR BOY A
FAIR CHANCE.
For a small sum annually we pro-
vide him with a substantial banking
account when he starts on his career.
Full particulars from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
BAGSHAW’S
ASTHMA
H
POWDER
——
ASTHMA POWDER
(2/6 All Chemists)
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Post Free, 2/9, from The Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
heart. He never had no time for the Gov-
’ment town.” x ,
His steps led him to the neat stone cot-
tage where he had come before, on the
evening the Wanderer sailed from Twofold
Bay. It looked much the same, only the
warden didn’t seem to be quite so well care
for as it used to be, and the white picket
fence surrounding it could have done wit
some new paint. He went up the she
pathway and knocked at the front door.
Presently it was opened by a very stout
lady in a crinoline, from behind the wide
perimeter of which two tousle-heaaed chi a-
eno M3Suiu;s aip 4B Msnouno padood uo.i
seemed to fill the doorway, and had a tat,
red face, and double chins, and a bulging
bosom much accentuated by the tightness
of her bodice. A strange woman she was to
Mr. Larraper, yet he knew her. He knew
her by her eyes and her mouth. But she
didn’t know him, for in these days, after the
fashion of the time, he wore a great bushy
beard that spread over his big chest and
depended almost to the third button of his
waistcoat. For a moment or two he looked
at her in astonishment —an astonishment that
was really a sudden realisation of the pass-
ing of the years—before he spoke. When
he did so, it was in a voice curiously unlike
his own. He was surprised to hear himselt
speak in such a feeble fashion startled, and
a little annoyed. .
“Is it,” he almost gasped— is it Alice'
Alice Mortimer?”
She looked at him in a puzzled way,
frowning a little, as if trying to recall some
old impression. She shook her head.
“Not now,” she said. “I teas Alice Mor-
timer—a good while ago. My name’s Bur-
golt, now—Mrs. Burgolt. But I seem to
know your voice, sir. Now, who can it
be I wonder? There’s someone I remember
a little like you—but I can’t think who it
is.”
“Well,” said Mr. Larraper slowly, and in
the same weak fashion that had surprised
him when first he had addressed her, “you
might remember me, Alice—l mean Mrs.
Burgolt, beggin’ y’r pardon. I’m George
Larraper, and I’ve come back from Cali-
forny for to see if you was still a-lookin’
at Mount Imlay down yonder. I mean,
lookin’ like you said you was a-goin’ to look
them years ago, when I went away. But I
see them children, and I larn y’r new
name, so maybe you ain’t. Is it likely I
might come inside a minute or so? I’d
like for to talk over old times a bit —that
is, if ye’ve no objection, ma’am?”
The stout woman reddened, and then grew
pale. Gently she drove the Children into the
house with the shoo-ing gesture of one
who drives fowls from a flower-bed. She
motioned for him to enter the living-room
of the little house, deposited her bulky
form upon a horsehair sofa with a curly end
to it, which she and her ample skirts almost
filled up, and motioned to the big man to
find himself a chair. She seemed to him to
be a little embarrassed. Very gallantly,
therefore, he took up the burden of the
visit.
“ ’Tis a good while ago, Alice,” he said
nervously, “since last I see you, and I’ve
been a long way off since then.”
“Where’ve you been, George? You might
call me ‘Alice’ still, if it pleases you to do
so. Mount Imlay? I don’t remember about
Mount Imlay. It’s still there, of course—
but what about it?”
He frowned a little, and jerked out his
big beard with an impatient tilting of the
chin.
“Oh, well, it don’t matter. I went away
in the Wanderer with Mr. Boyd, as you
know, and we had a claim in Californy. But
no luck. So he grew tired of it, and went
away in th’ yacht to th’ South Seas. Them
cannybals in th’ Solomons got him, some-
how. I stayed in Ameriky—and then th’
luck changed, an’ I made my pile. Last
year I fitted out a schooner in San Fran-
cisco, an’ sailed her to them islands —to
th’ place where Mr. Boyd went a-missing.
I’d a notion I might find what became of
him. But there wasn’t nothing to be found.
He’d just gone ashore shootin’ one morning
—in Guadalcanal- it was —and wasn’t never
seen again. So I shot as many niggers as I
could, an’ burned a lot o’ their villages—
in remembrance of Mr. Boyd like —an’ then
I come away to Sydney. That’s all my story,
ma’am —I mean, Alice. That’s all that’s hap-
pened to me. An’ what’s th’ best you’ve to
tell?”
This brief epitome of his thirteen years
stirred her more than reproaches as to
broken vows might have done. His quiet
acceptance of the situation as he found it,
and instant recognition of the fact that all
he had hoped for must for ever be abandoned,
touched her strangely. She covered her face
with her hands, and bowed her head. He
sat and stared at her solemnly, saying
nothing.
Presently she uncovered her face, and
drew her sleeve across her eyes. She spoke
wistfully.
“Well, then, George, there’s been no best.
Only the worst. A man came here who
taught me not to look at Imlay, or, if I
did, only to see shades upon it. So I gave
up looking at the mountain at all, and these
years past I’ve never turned my eyes in that
direction. How he did it I don’t know—but
he did it. Two years—near three—lie stayed
with me after we were married, and then he
went away. My father died, and I came
back here to live with my children. Never
again did I hear of Johnny Burgolt—until
last week. Maybe you’ll have heard what I
heard? Can't you remember reading of
the name in the Sydney newspapers?”
He fingered his big beard reflectively, and
after a little while shook his head.
“Burgolt—Burgolt No. I can’t say I
call the name to mind. But then, as you
know r , I’ve never learned to read. I can
write my name, an’ figure a bit, but readin s
always been beyond me. You knew that,
didn’t you, Alice?”
She nodded, and dabbed at her eyes with
her handkerchief.
“I’d forgotten,” she said, “like —God for-
give me—l’d forgotten other things. Oh,
well, a fortnight ago they hung Johnny Bur-
golt, hung him in Darlinghurst. He’d been a
bushranger, over on the Lachlan side, and
had shot a policeman. With Frank Gardiner,
he was. "Twas the first I heard of him when
I read that he was hung—not in his right
name, but he’d told it before he died. So
that’s the news I have to tell, George. ’Tis
poor news, and pretty sad, but that’s what
it is, and you may as well know it. I forgot
Mount Imlay—and there’s my punishment,
I suppose.”
Mr. Larraper rose to his feet, and his head
almost touched the ceiling. He began to
stride up and down the little room, fingering
his beard, and for a long time made no re-
mark. At last he halted, and stood looking
down at the stout woman on the sofa. Pre-
sently he spoke.
“Well, then, Alice,” he said, in a low
tone that, almost inaudible as it Avas,
had more confidence in it than that in which
he had first spoken to her at the door —
“if you forgot them lights an’ shades on
Imlay, I never did. All these years, an’
all. When we come round the Mewstone
Rock, over there be th’ North Head, this
morning, I comes on deck to take a squint
at the old mountain. I’d never forgotten it,
and there it was as real as it had always
been to me. And there wasn’t no shade or
shadow on it at all. So I had a hunch that
everything was right. And by liokey, it is
right. It couldn’t be any righter.”
“ Right?”
“Yes —right as Kingdom Come. Listen.
Kere’ve you took on a name that’s got itself
disgraced by its owner bein’ hung, an’ nat’-
rally you’ll be wishful for to change it. We’ll
make it Larraper, an’ tli’ kids can take it,
too. Now come outside, an’ look at tli’ moun-
tain. There ain’t no shades on Imlay this
mornin’. You take a look, an’ you’ll sec.”
The woman Avas sobbing gently.
“But, George,” she whispered tearfully,
“I’m too fat!”
“Fat be d —d !” he exclaimed. “Come out-
side an’ take a look at Imlay. ( No shades
—nothin’ but sunshine. Come !”
Hesitantly the stout woman followed him
into the garden, and turned her eyes towards
the mountain. But she could not see it.
The Chanty of the Hog Eye.
Now, who’s been here since I’ve been gone.
Yaller gal with the booties on,
With a hog eyt?
Row the boat ashore!
With a hog eye,
All she wants is a hog-eye man—
A liog-eye man is bound to shine
With a hog eye.
The duchess left ’er dook an’ ran
Oft' to sea with a liog-eye man.
A hog-eye man he’s got to shine
With a hog eye
Anywhere north or south the Line.
With a hog eye
All she asked was a hog-eye man,
Row the boat ashore!
Polly Shields was the wildest lass
Ever laughed in a lookin’-glass
With a hog eye.
Turned a leaf in the book of life
And settled down to make a wife
For a hog-eye man.
All she wanted was a hog-eye man.
The hog-eye man is bound to shine
Anywhere north or south the Line
With a hog eye.
A hog-eyed man to Charlestown,
Comes one day in the Sally Brown
With a hog eye.
Row the boat ashore!
With a hog eye,
All the girls in port began
To court his love, that hog-eye man,
With a hog eye.
Aye, lean an’ fat an’ short an’ tall
The hog-eyed man lie won ’em all
With a hog eye.
A liog-eye man lie’s .got the shine
With a ho s eye.
Around the world I do opine,
The hog-eye man he’s got to shine,
With a hog eye.
That liog-eye man from Charlestown
Sailed away as the sun went down
With a hog eye.
Nigger gal from the pier-head threw
Herself for love in the ocean blue;
But a hog eye
Fished her out with a boat-hook, and
She married that other man on land
With a hog eye.
A hog-eye man lie’s sure to shine
Anywhere north or south the Line
With a hog eye.
Sally Brown with the liog-eye man
Into a roarin’ storm she ran
With a hog eye;
An’ all the crew aboard got drowned,
Savin’ that hog-eye man was found
Live an’ well, with his whisky flask
Floatin’ round on the harness cask,
With a hog eye.
Row the boat ashore!
Wliat’s the charm with a hog-eye man?
If you can’t tell me someone can
With a hog eye.
Now, bullies all, the job’s most through,
But one more song I’ll sing to you
Of a hog eye.
As Jill was cornin’ through the rye
A gay young Jack she chanced to spy
With a hog eye.
He kissed her on her rosy lips....
An’ that’s just where my chanty slips
With a hog eye;
For when nine months or so was done...
Now, I’ll leave off where I begun
With a hog eye.
But you can reckon, messmates mine,
The hog-eye man is hound to shine
Anywhere north or south the Line
With a hog eye.
Oh, hog eye here an’ hog eye there,
With a hog eye.
An’ one more pull to make it square.
An’ no more work for .Tack to-day
With a hog eye—and belay!
VICTOBIAi
E.J. BRADY.


NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Bafety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS —DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadfields’ Mancanese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and i Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W,
Foundries i Bassendean, Berth, W.A.
Branch ! 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office j T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
* II M
Ol
a
A
jr ■* . S?-
In small homes where hot-water service is required for bath-
room, kitchen, sink and for wash troughs, the “Triton”
Modified Central Heating System can be economically applied
by installing heater in one room and connecting up the
second room by pipe line. This reduces installation cost
yet affords the same advantages of quick, hygienic safe
and economical hot-water service as with the Complete
‘Triton” Central Hot-water System.
Our two years' guarantee against electrical failure
applies equally to the Modified System.
Full Particulars and Prices from
Thos, Abbott & Co.,
13a Hardware Street, Melbourne. Tel FAOA2 •
Cr. Wynyard and Margaret Lancs, ’’ Si/dneiA
111 Taranaki Street, Wellington, M Z ' ’
Agencies: A. C Clarke, 112 Gawler Place, Adel-
aide: Harms, Scarfe and Sandover, Ltd., Perth;
W. H Knight and Peter Bros. Pty., Ltd., Hobart
and Launceston; James Campbell and Sons, Ltd..
Creek Street, Brisbane. '/.
The Spring of Kai-dak.
ANOTHER OF S. STEDMAN’S GRAPHIC STORIES OF LIFE IN SIBERIA.
OUR caravan of camels, laden with wool,
skins and furs, moved noiselessly over
the soft, grass-carpeted road. The
treeless steppes stretched far into the dis-
tance, uniting there with the blue skies.
From dawn till nightfall these slanting walls
of blue surrounded us, and it seemed as
though we were destined to wander aimlessly
in that circumscribed space, never finding
a way out.
A heavy silence pressed upon us and a
feeling of loneliness, of isolation, crept into
our hearts. I watched the gentle breezes skip
over the tops of the tall, yellow grass, and
an overwhelming desire to see a dwelling,
to meet a traveller, took possession of me.
I longed for the shrill notes of the cicada,
for the occasional cawing of the crows. My
feelings seemed to have communicated them-
selves to Norbo, who rode beside me, en-
throned between the camel’s humps. His
eyes were closed and he swayed languidly
with the steps of the beast. The words of
his song indicated that his thoughts were
home in liis yurta, for he sang of meat, of
strong koumiss and of women.
“Where do we spend the coming night,
Norbo?” I asked more in desire to hear his
voice than to learn of our camping place.
He opened his eyes and looked around,
studying the surrounding country. “We shall
pitch camp near the Spring of Kai-dak,” he
answered.
“Is the water good?”
“No water in Mongolia is clearer or cooler,
for the tears of Kai-dak have made it so.”
“Who was she?” I asked.
Norbo, who is well versed in the folk-
lore of his country, is always ready to share
his knowledge. He extracted his snuff-box
and inhaled the tobacco; then, adjusting
himself, he leaned against the hump which
the abundance of grass had made firm and
erect, and began his tale.
* * * *
It is told among my people that many
years ago, when our brave Batu had con-
quered many lands and the name of Mongol,
which means valiant, brought fear to the
hearts of men and women, there lived near
the little mountain spring a man named
Bagatai. His yurta was large and warm and
his docks and herds very numerous. Meat,
milk and argal lie had in abundance; every-
thing one needs to be happy had Bagatai.
yet was he not happy. Even his young and
comely wife brought him no contentment.
An evil spirit of restlessness possessed him,
and always he wanted to move from place
to place.
It is true that no Mongol even to this day
remains long anywhere, for his herds require
new pastures ; but Bagatai cared not for his
beasts and only indulged his own desire for
change. Most of his time he spent in riding
his horse, aimlessly looking at the stars and
the moon, or in making up songs. And thus
he lived, coming home but seldom, until one
day he heard people speak of the Dulai-Nor
(Baikal), and the Kalkas (Buriats) who
lived on its shores. Thereafter Bagatai
could find no rest; thither he must go or lose
all joy in life.
His wife Kai-dak entreated him to give
up the proposed journey, spoke of the dangers
which threatened him on the way, and men-
tioned her own loneliness. Naught would
make him change his mind; he could think
and speak of nothing else. Then Kai-dak
invited lamas to drive the evil spirit out
and make him happy and contented in her
company, but they failed. The same fate
befell the endeavors of the shamans; and
after that Kai-dak submitted to the will of
Burchan, who is the Great Spirit.
With the coming of spring, when the snow
of the steppes had been replaced by green
grass, and flocks of ducks and geese returned
to their old haunts from warmer climes,
Bagatai bade farewell to his wife and de-
parted. A new world opened before his won-
dering eyes. His journey took him through
strange countries; he met strange people,
listened to their tales and made new songs;
and real happiness he found the day he be-
held the Holy Sea, which others call Baikal.
Never before had he seen so much water in
one place. Fascinated, ho looked at it,
watched the waves riding, rushing shore-
wards, then retreating clad in white, swirl-
ing and foaming as though furious at their
own impotence to break through the cliffs
that held them in bounds.
In the sounds of the waves he heard a wel-
come to himself; in the whisper of the near-
by forest lie discerned the object of his
quest. Contentment spread over his tired
body and he felt as if his restless soul had
found peace in the equally restless sea.
He remained on the shore, idling away his
time in happy enjoyment of the discovered
goal; and then he met Bartai, the fisher-
woman. He saw her small boat rising and
falling with the swell of the sea; beheld
her standing erect; steering her frail craft
with the wind playing in her long hair, she
appeared to Bagatai to be more than human.
Her beauty was so dazzling that Bagatai
believed the spirit of the Holy Sea had risen
from the deep and was smiling at him
through the eyes of the woman. He stood
gazing at her spellbound, confused, for never
had he seen a woman so beautiful, nor had
he imagined one so full of charm. Thrilling
and exultant, he saw her coming his way;
almost reduced to tears, he worshipped her
in his thoughts.
In that moment he realised that the gods
who endowed him with the desire to wan-
der had done so on purpose that he should
meet this woman in a strange land. Feelings
theretofore unknown surged through his
breast, emotions each stronger than the last
alternated in his heart. Admiration, love,
desire and fear replaced one another. He
had no thought of wife, of home or of native
land. And when her boat had touched the
golden sand of the shore he saluted her as
one would a queen.
“Thou who art so different from other
women I know, permit me to follow thee
to thy yurta and let me serve thee,” he
said. “I have travelled far urged by un-
known forces, never finding peace or happi-
ness until I reached the waters of the Dalai-
Nor, but now I know that it was thee my
heart was seeking; thou art more than beau-
tiful, thou art divine !”
She spoke, and her voice soothed and
calmed him: “Stranger, you do me great
honor, for I am only a poor fisher-woman,
COMMUNITY SINGING.
whose husband has not returned with the
sab l e s he went to hunt, and I shall welcome
you as befits a guest ”
His eyes feasted upon her beauty, and in
b is heart he felt °reat joy
she led him through a 'narrow, winding
path among the bird-cherry trees, and he in-
haled their intoxicating fragrance. Tall,
stately cedars, pines and the tremulous aspen
lined their way, and Bagatai, who had never
before seen so many trees, was delighted,
The forest seemed to him a place enchanted,
where unexpected things could happen. Little
booroondooks (striped squirrels) darted from
branch to branch, skilfully cracking the
thin shells of cedar-nuts and extracting the
kernel.
From some trees came the sounds of the
cuckoo and Bartai stopped to count. Only
twice did the bird call, and the woman turned
pale.
“Only two more years of life the cuckoo
gives me,” mused Bartai aloud. But Bagatai
did not comprehend the meaning of her
words, and so she explained.
“As many times as the cuckoo calls, so
many years shall one who counts them live.”
“Two years !” exclaimed Bagatai. “Would
I not give the rest of my life for two years
with thee!” And the woman smiled grate-
fully.
So Bartai brought him to her yurta; and
days of supreme happiness followed. She
gave him all he craved for. In her arms
he forgot his wife; his duties towards her
were banished from his mind.
Snow covered the ground and ice bound
the waters of the lake; then once again the
earth was green and flowers bloomed in the
steppes; but Kai-dak waited in vain for her
husband. Night followed day, and nigh
on two years she lived alone in her yurta
faithful to the man who was her husband.
The herds multiplied and the sheep grew
fat, but she found no consolation in any-
thing. Often the little spring heard her
cries in the night, listened to her prayers,
and, catching her hot tears, murmured softly,
soothingly.
One day returning warriors brought news
of her husband. Laughingly they spoke of
him and greatly admired the beauty of Bar-
tai.
Then Kai-dak felt a mighty anger rise
within her, and a loud voice in her heart
called for vengeance; and in the days that
followed the desire to see the faithless ones
suffer even as she was suffering gave her
no peace. While she prepared for the long
journey to them she made plans of revenge;
but she thrust them aside—they all seemed
feeble and inadequate—so great was the
anger within her.
After many days of travel she reached the
waters of the Dalai-Nor. She watched them
dance and sparkle in the sunlight, she heard
them murmur softly, but she stopped not to
listen and admire. Her wrath drove her on,
compelling, relentless. And at the close of
day, when shadows appeared from behind the
trees, and a sense of subdued activity and
strange sounds spread over the forest, she
came to the yurta of Bartai.
Bagatai was glad to see his wife, for
now the future seemed bright and full of
promise; the three of them would live in
peace and harmony. But Kai-dak would not
hear of it; she demanded his immediate re-
turn. Even if he had wished to do so, that
was beyond his strength—he w T as powerless
against the great love for Bartai which
dominated him. He begged Kai-dak to return
alone, offering her all his possessions. But
she, too, was unable to suppress her yearn-
ing for him ; she, too, was held by a power
as strong as his. Such is the nature of
men and women.
One night Kai-dak decided to take her re-
venge. “If it is Bartai’s beauty alone that
holds him, then it must be destroyed,” she
said.
Arming herself with a sharp knife, she
stole into Bartai’s yurta, determined to dis-
figure her and make her face hideous
to the man. But suddenly she thought that
this was not enough ; her husband, too, must
be punished. “I shall pierce the eyes which
saw the woman. Then he will be helpless.”
She raised her knife, intent on severing
the nose of Bartai. But a moment later
her hand fell limp, unable to strike. The face
of the sleeping woman was upturned, and the
pale light of the moon revealed a child-like
smile upon her lips. Kai-dak felt that she
had no strength to injure her, no heart to
cause her pain.
Closing her eyes as if to shut out the
woman’s beauty, she endeavored by reason-
ing to blow the remaining sparks of her
hatred into a blazing fire, and failed. She
knew herself defeated then by the same
power which had conquered her husband,
and loud sobs shook her body and disturbed
the silence.
Bagatai and Bartai awakened, and, see-
ing Kai-dak with the knife still clutched in
her hand, understood what peril they had
escaped.
A deep pity for Kai-dak swept over them.
“Kai-dak, thou are a woman and therefore
my sister,” Bartai said. “I do not wish to
cause thee suffering. If Bagatai be willing
to return to thee, I shall not restrain him.”
But Kai-dak answered: “The happiness
of two is more than the happiness of
one. Should Bagatai come with me, only
I should be satisfied. I am going away and
you two will lead the life that gives you
gladness. Give me thy hand, Bartai, and
thou too, Bagatai, and promise that should
you two have a child born to you it shall
be called Kai-dak, so that the memory of me
shall live with you and not die with me.”
And when the woman and the man had
made their promise, with firm steps, deter-
mined and resolute, Kai-dak left the yurta
and, mounting her horse, rode away.
That night she spent on the shore of the
Holy Sea and while she slept Burchan had
pity on her and she was turned into an
Omul. Since then this fish has spread and
multiplied ; the waters of the Holy Sea and
the Selenga teem with them —they are the
food of the inhabitants of Transbaikalia.
But no Mongol will eat them. For are they
not Kai-dak, who found happiness?
[Note. —The Baikal is known among the Mongols
as the Dalai-Nor, and the Buriats call it the Holy
Sea.]
The Fisherman’s Cave.
What do you say, since the moon shines
white
And bright is the sea and brave,
If we take the track by the dunes to-night
And visit the Fisherman’s Cave?
Sheltered it lies at the foot of a slope,
Before it a shining beach,
With heaped nets upon it and coils of rope
Just out of the high-tide’s reach.
There, with the fishermen sitting down,
At least for a little spell
We shall find escape from the glaring town.
And talk of the town as well.
Faces aglow by their grass-tree fire
Entranced for a space we’ll be,
As the waves draw near and the waves retire,
By tales of the under-sea.
Ways of the wind and ways of the wave,
And ways of the tides that turn
At the will of the moon, in that fire-lit cave
Bike children at school we’ll learn.
Lulled by the song that the sea wind sings
As gently to land it creeps,
We shall hear strange talk of the hidden
things
That dwell in the under-deeps.
What do you say then, with this to know—
While the moon in the east shines white,
To the Fisherman’s Cave by the dunes shad
we go,
And hearken their lore to-night?
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


•for a good
/ nights rest
lake
it will ensure
a good day 's
In 4 sizes Wife
of all Chemists
and Stores
Kraft Cheese has made the healthy practice of cheese-
eating a very great pleasure for both young and old.
Kraft Cheese is wrapped in tinfoil, so that no hands touch
it until you get it. The vitamins, the mineral salts and
the proteins are there in abundance, the flavor is unim-
paired and every bit can be eaten. There is no rind
and no waste.
Eat some Kraft Cheese every day.
Sold by weight or
in %lb. cartons
by all grocers and
storekeepers.
m
Made in Australia by
Kraft Walker Cheese
Co. Ply., Ltd., at
Riverside Avenue, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.
HULL
Britain’s Third and
Cheapest Port.
The Natural Gateway
to a large Industrial Area of
12 MILLION PEOPLE.
11 DOCKS
Owned and Served by the
London g North-Eastern Railway
MODERN EQUIPMENT,
RAPID HANDLING,
LOW CHARGES.
EXPRESS GOODS TRAINS
to all parts of the country.
Regular Fast Steamship Services to the
Continent of Europe for Re-Export Trade.
AUSTRALIAN SHIPPERS are invited to
inquire for further information at the offices
of Messrs. BURNS, PHILP & CO LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney; and Branches.
Agents throughout New Zealand:
J 7 A. REDPATH & SONS, LTD.
L.N.E.R..
Largest Dock-t
in the
ig Railway
TRADITION.
BY E.M. ENGLAND.
meeting and the inevitable introduction,
Hilda, blushing furiously, thought of a
gazelle fronting a young, black-maned lion ;
a swart Roman legionary looking his first
upon a fair Saxon child!
“Kay,” she began ? masking her discom-
fiture as best she might, “this is my sailor
brother of whom I told you. His name is
Wallace, but we call him Buck. And just
look at him!” she concluded with heavy
playfulness.
Kay looked. She saw Wallace North
from a profoundly different viewpoint;
noted the flickering eyes, blue as any tur-
quoise, the even teeth his smile disclosed;
wondered why his ears were pierced ; admired
his jaunty carriage. Her own face brightened.
Here was Adventure, Romance! With her
lips she said casually: “How do you do?
Yes, I’ve heard of you, of course.” But her
eyes flashed: “Oh, you story-book man!”
And his wirelessed back: “Mar-vell-ous girl!”
Buck lost no time in expressing that senti-
ment in clear words. The admiration born
within him at his first meeting with Kay
quickened into love as swiftly and inevitably
as a red poppy opens out to warmth and
sunlight. As for Kay, Hilda thought she
seemed to be under a spell. Usually mild
and merely pleasant, she might have been a
bird moved to sudden rapture, to mad out-
pouring of song by the scents and sounds of
spring. She seemed to tread on air. to
radiate light. She was in an ecstasy as
nearly approaching the proverbial Seventh
Heaven as a human being can be. For both
of them those were halycon days, Buck had
THE first North to arrive in Queens-
land had been a limb of a considerable
Family Tree. Moreover, he had come
with a purse very well lined. Money speaks,
and Edgar North, aware of this, built for
himself a lordly dwelling which recalled the
grandeur of an English country home, and,
having experienced several good seasons m
succession, amassed further wealth.
With the North family the word Tradition
held infinite significance. But they had not
been wi.tb.out their eloseti-skeletons. Ihe
younger generation heard the rattle of bones
in the person of Wallace North. He was
accustomed to absent himself for long periods
at sea, where he had fled from a decorous
Sydney secondary school. His visits to
Northcote were by way of surprises, always,
of course, when funds and employment Avere
scarce. These visits usually terminated pre-
maturely during his father’s lifetime, for
the two had always clashed, and Wallace
was constantly guilty of some indiscretion
or eccentricity which set the countryside
sniggering. Hence the wrath of the father,
with whom the North prestige counted for
everything.
In the days Avhen he had pressed his
brothers into games which took the form of
nautical excursions in inverted cases upon
the dam —said excursions invariably ending
in disaster—and conducted pirate raids upon
precarious planks, his companions had dubbed
him “Buccaneer North,” and the name stuck.
Years afterwards when reference was made
to him, people spoke of him as Buccaneer,
or simply Buck.
When their father died, no surprise was
caused in the family at the information that
the sailor had been left without share in
his father’s fortune. The other young Norths
were rather sorry for him, but they reflected
that he had only received his deserts. They
cherished the hope that he might now shun
Northcote altogether.
However, some time after the death of
his father, he arrived unexpectedly, taking
the last stage of the journey in an empty
bullock-waggon. Though lie .wore the shab-
biest of seamen’s clothes, physically he was
as superb as ever, and whistled cheerfully
as he strode up the drive.
When he ascended the homestead steps,
Hilda, who was sitting upon the verandah,
cast him one horrified glance. His shirt-
sleeves were rolled well back, exposing
tattooed arms bronzed to mahogany. His
face, neck and chest were also sun-darkened,
and lie badly needed a shave. If he had
been transformed into a cannibal king, Hilda
could not haA 7 e appeared more shaken. She
rose, looking positively ill, and let the Avliite
linen upon which she had been working
fall back into her chair. Cap in hand, he
stood before her, smiling the old familiar,
gleaming smile.
“What. Hilda!” he observed plaintively.
“No word of welcome for the prodigal?”
He drew a handkerchief from his tattered
pocket to mop his heated face. It was a
spotted affair with a background of scarlet.
In a flash of imagination, Hilda visioned it
as knotted, containing his worldly goods, a
gaudy parrot pouring profane confidences
into one pierced ear.
“Oh Buck, how could you?” she groaned,
glancing round as she recollected a girl
guest and her mother who were indoors.
“Quick, before anyone sees you. There are
visitors here. I’ll smuggle you in.”
As she brushed by, he bent and kissed one
smooth cheek. She turned impetuously
and kissed him in return.
“Why don’t you think? It’s just that you
are an anachronism.” She sighed. “I sup-
pose you can’t help being born out of date.”
On their way to the room which had been
his when a boy, the pair met Katharine
Bridges, who had been Hilda’s college-chum
only two years ago. Kay was nineteen,
pretty in a demure sort of way, with long-
lashed grey eyes, a childish, rather petulant
mouth, and a mop of wa\'ing fair hair. She
possessed a really good complexion, and
her hands and feet were very near per-
fection.
In the seconds which elapsed between the
“Inwardly she vjas wonder mg how many girls had lain so in Buck’s great arms against
his thrumming heart.”
found someone within the walls of North-
cote with whom he could laugh and jest-
throw dignity to the winds without reproof.
Here, too, was a lithe body, supple and
slim, sweet lips to caress; a pure, unques-
tioning innocence, so chaste, so virginal
that his own burning desire for her smote
him with shame.
One evening, when Hilda and Kay’s
mother were enjoying music indoors and the
boys were smoking on the verandah, matters
caine to a head. Kay stumbled upon a thick
twig and fell against him so that, to save
her, he caught her in his arms. He did it
deftly, and with ease. And, as she halt
expected, he did not let her go.
“Little idol!” he whispered, his lips
against her temple. “White and gold . Come
with me—away with me!” . .
“Where?” she asked, with an uncertain
little laugh. “I’m not of age and you re
—down and out. You told me so.
Inwardly she was wondering how many
girls had lain so in Buck’s great arms against
his thrumming heart. Blie began to count
its beats, her mind in a whirl.
“We’re young,” he returned impatiently,
“I can battle along somehow. Let us go
from here. A few belongings, two good
horses, and—there’s a little church and an
old rector I used to know” At the
thought he took her up entirely and set ott
at a run. , ~ , , . ,
At the verandah’s edge they blundered into
Edgar and Frank, who were finishing their
very good cigarettes with the absence _of
haste, the entire lack of concern, which
characterised all their movements.
At sight of Buck with his burden, however,
even the North composure was ruffled, and
their cigarettes went simultaneously into the
dry garden-bed below. Two horrified pairs
of eyes stared at Buck, who paused, stared
also, and set Kay down. She, being really
a conventional young thing, sped into the
house, cold hands to her burning cheeks.
The amazement, the petrified attitudes of the
North boys had recalled all the errant par-
ticles of commonsense which had fled into
roseate distance.
Edgar, eyes ablaze., demanded: “Wliat in
the name of Heaven were you doing? Where
were you taking Kay?”
“To the Devil,” replied the erring brother
without hesitation. “And it’s a pity some
more of us Norths didn’t go there once in
a while. What are you staring at, anyway,
you tailors’ dummies?”
Edgar ceased to stare. This was too much
—the sight of Kay in Buck’s arms. His
right hand shot out and gripped Buck’s
soft collar. “You cad!” he exclaimed.
“Coming here uninvited, sponging on our
hospitality and then treating a girl guest like
that!”
Frank interposed quietly. “Steady, led,
steady,” he cautioned, “he’s welcome here
so long as he behaves himself —we agreed
upon that
Buck had been watching them from the
steps, verv much like a young tiger crouch-
ing in the dark.
“You poor lounge-lizards,” he burst out at
last. “Which of you has ever done a liand’s-
turn for himself in his life? Sponging!
Hospitality!” He went off into laughter.
“Oh, chaste and austere Norths! Why,
boiled down, all your silly swank ist
cowardice! Fear of what your neighbors
will say! As for Miss Bridges, I wouldn’t
hurt a hair of her head.”
“No! You didn’t look like it!” sneered
Frank.
“She is going to marry me,” added Buck.
“What!” cried the brothers simulta-
neously.
Suddenly Ted seemed galvanised into
action. He leaned out and grasped Buck, as
though propelled by wire springs.
“You are a cad, Buck,” lie said with
terrific earnestness. “Wliat spell have you
cast over her these last few days? What
lies have you told? She’s little more than
a schoolgirl. What have you to offer her?”
Buck's soft laugh was maddening. “Aha,
Teddy! I suspected you were in love with
her yours; If!”
There was a second’s silence. Then,
“Buck,” observed Ted in a strangled voice,
“come into the library, will you? I’ve some-
thing important to say.” He turned indoors,
followed by Frank and Buck.
Once within the library Buck threw him-
self down resignedly. “What's the game,
Ted?” he demanded. “Going to strangle
me?”
“Perhaps,” replied Edgar drily. His
rugged face looked unusually pale, but his
eyes—so like those in the portraits that
hung on the walls around them and in the
hall —were curiously alight. The gaze which
he turned on Buck was quite calm.
“Look here,” lie began, genially enough,
“what do you want most in the world?’
“Kay Bridges,” was the prompt answer.
“I don’t mean just now,” was the patient
amendment —Ted was keeping his temper
well in hand. “What did you want, say,
any time before you met Kay ?”
“Oh-h!” Buck fell to musing, chin on
hand. “Oh. ever since I was a kid, a ship
of my own, of course.”
“Good Lord!” ejaculated Frank. “You
don’t want much.” .
“Not an ocean-liner,” Buck explained
politely. “The sort of thing one could take
among the islands, to trade and so on.’
Ted was silent a moment. Then: “Buck,
I’ve made a good bit in one way and another
in addition to what Dad left me. I’ll give
you the honest price of your boat, and a
bit over, to get a start if—if you swear
never again to see or speak to Kay.”
Buck’s eyes widened.
“And leave you on the spot, undisturbed,
to marry her?” Buck asked at last. He
thrust out his chin. His blue eyes narrowed
in mockery. “And you think I can be bought
off like a stable-hand,” lie added.
Ted met his glance squarely.
“I knew you’d say that,” he returned
unemotionally. "But you’re wrong. Part
of the bargain is that I swear off lier as
well. I’ll promise never wilfully to see
Kav again or speak to her, once she has
left here, And, Buck, I’m at least a man of
my word.”
Buck nodded slowly, eyes on the polished
desk beside him. That was like Ted —to add
the clause in his own disfavor just to prove
that lie was not haggling over Kay as
though she were a bale of wool. _
“How d’you know,” lie said at last,
raising his eyes, “that _ I won’t take the
money and the girl too?”
“If you give me your word, of course I II
accept it,” was the quiet reply, “If you did
lie,” he added with sudden, warmth, • it
would be the last time.” .
So he was capable of unexpected things,
this solemn brother. Buck smiled. “H'm.
Well, I’ll think it over. I rather like the
idea of that ship.”
Frank, younger and more imaginative
than Ted, felt the blood mount to his cheeks.
Undoubtedly Buck reverted in type to some
lawless ancestor, but, after all, he was a
North. Surely he possessed some spark of
the fine principles of his race.
They hurried out as though relieved to
be rid of their brother’s company, and. left
alone. Buck mused over the proposal—-and
the alternative. To say the least of it. it
had astounded him. He could never have
dreamed that any man could have been
moved by emotions so deep and strong that
he would barter away so much that a slip
of a girl might be ensured ease and peace
of mind, and that without a word to the
girl herself—she would probably never
know of his renunciation.
It dawned upon Buck that here was love
if you liked—the things poets raved about,
with the addition of utter unselfishness.
If he-accepted the offer, it meant complete
(Continued on page 57.)


Banking, Public Companies, etc,
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 ..£18,366,297
Directors: Sir Mauk Siikluon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yakwood ; 11. R. Lysaoiit, 0.8. E.;
George J. Soy, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chiel Inspector: W. G. Hull,
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (.Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E'.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors:
A. Dodds Fairbatrn, Alfred Shepherd, James Tuke.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares 1,875,000
Long Terra Mortgage Shares .. 374,197
Ordinary Shaves ‘ 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,609,655
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ix'eland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS ?'„*■*£*
periods aim Jransacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
lINITCn
tllll I LV
insurance
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
Accident and
i effected on all classes ol
■ Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
ou Wool, Merchandise,
Mulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” in an Australian institution.
A. C. Dawson. Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
HOTEL
METRQPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from (i/(> and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to Tiie Manager.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. .150 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne
\
A
A
w°
\v>
w
<.O
-vV c
\A
v\V>
\V C
\\e' A
wa
o ? A^
GREY
MAIIR
WOULD
' SPOIL
IT#
WAT,NUT
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
Shipping, etc.
§pf
m
k
<3^
'om
safe;
**>'.
TAHITIAN TOURS
An alternative
winter holiday
in the South Seas
presents itself in
the Union Com-
pany’s excursion
trips to
Rarotonga and
Papeete
coral sisters in
Tahitian waters.
Hawaii
Leave Winter Gladly
For Glorious Honolulu
Picturesque Auckland, favorite
seaport of Northern New Zea-
land; sparkling Hava, glowing
in varied colors, like a gem of
many facets in the silver setting
of a coral reef; far-famed Hono-
lulu. treasure palace of a thou
sand novel sights and starry
nights: these await Australians!
Return Excursion
(from Sydney)
First Saloon . . £75
Second Saloon. £55
EVERY luxury of sea travel is enjoyed on
the palatial Canadian-Australasian liners
by excursion passengers to Honolulu. The
round trip costs little more than a city holiday.
The Aorangi will leave Sydney on July 26.
Particulars and literature from Union Steam
Ship Co., Union House, 247 George Street,
Sydney.
Visit Pacific Isles!
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by All Steamship Lines.
Choice of Any Route. Without Extra Charge.
From AUSTRALIA to
ENGLAND
FRANCE
ITALY
GERMANY
AMERICA
CANADA
MEXICO
AFRICA
JAPAN
EGYPT
INDIA
CHINA
Also attractive tours to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji, etc.
BUSINESS TRIPS. PLEASURE CRUISES.
AUSTRALIA TO
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly sailings maintained by the popu-
lar steamers “MARELLA” and “MALA-
BAR” from Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane, via
Queensland Ports,
Torres Strait,
Darwin, etc.
< uim i .)««i'» j' ■WjV
For Reservations and
Information apply: —
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. And all Branch Office
South Africa and England
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
ABERDEEN LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
fDemosthenes 11,500 tons, Sept. 11
♦Nestor 15,000 „ Oct. 8
.... 18,500 ~ Oct. 16
♦Ulysses .... 15,000 „ Nov. 12
fThemistocles 11,500 „ Nov. 27
♦Anchises . . 10,000 „ Dec. 10
♦First class only. fFirst and Third class.
s“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agents
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
L'o LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALIIANALD . 13,100
BARBABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BAR A DINK .. 13,100
BENDIGO .. 13,100
WiLTANA
JiEN ALLA
1101! DA
BKKUIMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON, LTD.,
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney!
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Huddart ParkerL
.*0 Magnificent
, lUK Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
PAID-UP CAPITAL .. ,
RESERVE FUND .. .. ,
RESERVE LIABILITY ..
•
’
'
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Directors
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faitnfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falldner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tbreadpeedle Street, E.C. 3.
518 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping, eic.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports),
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no cargo for Mackay),
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
at Townsville for outports).
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOULONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE;
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. IV. CO., LTD.,
Passengers' Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
SAFE with GUYATT’S!
asdf
The improved Guyatt
Elastic Truss is the latest
and most efficient Elastic
Truss on the market to-day.
It has been altered and
improved in several import-
ant points of construction,
until its strength, efficiency
and durability have been greatly increased. A careful
examination of this Truss will prove every claim
made for its advantage over others.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
GUYATT & CO.,
Expert Makers of Surgical Appliances,
Dept. 8., 257 a George St., Sydney
Opposite Bridge Street.
; !^7/
♦\v
\\
KEROSENE MANTLE LAMP.
HOURS
LIGHT
UL
sf
70
•CANDLE POtfER.
¥icre Uftite&g'kt
So restful to tired
v " eyes, so simple, so eco-
nomical. Three hours’ light
for one penny.
Use electric light for its con-
venience, BUT for your eyes'
sake, light an Aladdin for
reading or sewing.
Chases gloom away ; floods your
home with soft white light.
Costs little and saves that cost
oyer and over again. Burns 94%
air, 6% kerosene vapour, lights
on a wick like an ordinary lamp
Let us arrange a Free Trial through
your local Dealer. Write for par-
ticulars of this FREE OFFER.
Aladdin Industries Ltd.
852 Aladdin House,
49-53 Shepherd St., SYDNEY
An Aladdin Dealer in every town.


.
Jmst. :£zr
m
m
. ■
% w? j
trVf
?
11
R£*
UCT
pp°^
Mr. Leon
Gordon,
the
Famous
Actor,
Praises
the Famous
Shaving Soap
REXONA
“Having used Rexona Shaving
Soap for some period, 1 have no
hesitation in stating that it is
the most excellent Shaving Soap
for a quick and smooth shave.’’
-— Mr. LEON GORDON.
Men! Here’s the Shaving Soap
for You —Rexona,
the New Triangular Stick.
Rexona Shaving Soap makes for comfort and hygiene in shav-
ing and tempers the skin against wind and bad weather. It pro-
duces a thick, creamy lather which softens the beard and makes
shaving a pleasure.
Rexona Shaving Soap is sold in pure aluminium containers,
which are strong, light and durable and will not rust, and which
keep the Shaving Soap in perfect condition.
REXONA SHAVING SOAP—
the New Triangular Stick, 1/6.
<7~-'
Mailed to you the
day they are made
f]ke famous Red Bax. of GhocolodeS^
(paton)
124
54
10/-
3/
6 Z
cL3O4
20/
a.rt
#
ILII
y
CHOCOLATES^
162*166 Pitt Street
SYDNEY^
SEND FOB. CATALQCUE ULUSTOATeri WITH REPRODUCTIONS OF CONFECTIONERY IN COLOURS!
osb fre
"ree lo any
address in Chxslrahst,
sdf
renunciation of Kay. If he renounced it,
and married her. . . .
Undoubtedly her people would cast her off.
Like the Norths, they were proud, wor-
shipped good form, the correct thing, tradi-
tion. What were their own resources —his
and Kay’s? Her frail beauty, his rough
strength! She couldn’t go to sea with him.
Then—children ! Suppose.... would they
flourish? Would Kay?
No wonder Ted had felt desperate, having
foreseen something of this, to which Buck
had never given a thought. Poor, foolish,
romantic little Kay! But he couldn’t give
her up! Not even for Ted, who had the
whole of Northeote to offer her, and a good
income besides.
Envy gripped him at the thought, but it
faded soon, and there descended upon him
a strange sense of forlornness. For the
first time in his life he felt really desolate
and alone. In his own way he was as much
a man as Ted or Frank —the Dad might have
considered that! Damn it, something was
due to him ! He had a mind to accept that
offer of Ted’s!
His gaze wandered from portrait to por-
trait, and half reluctantly lie found himself
regarding these stern figures and faces in
anew light. After all, they were men, men
who were able to put down desires to which
others of poorer clay were prone; to turn
a deaf ear to siren calls, andi settle down
to humdrum life With a smiling face.
Secretly he was obliged to feel very proud
of the Norths.
When Ted looked in about nine-thirty,
Buccaneer North was huddled in the arm-
chair, head in his hands, dreaming.
“Asleep, Buck?” he asked.
There was no reply for seconds. “Ted,”
Buck draAAded then, “I’m leaving in the
morning.”
“Oh, all right,” replied Ted. “I’ll take
you in in the car. About ten- —the bank
opens then. We can arrange things on the
way.”
At his door Ted collided with Frank, who
was awaiting him.
“Any news?” he asked.
“Yes,” growled Ted. “He’s leaving in
the morning.”
“That means that he’s agreeing to your
suggestion, of course.” Frank’s lips curled.
“I never dreamed you could be such a
Quixotic soul, Ted.” He brushed his brother’s
sleeve lightly. “You’re a brick, but you’re a
fool, too. A glorious fool! Why, you must
ivorship her!”
“Don’t!” cried Ted sharply, and stepped
quickly into his room and closed the door.
At sunrise he was awakened hurriedly by
Frank, who brought the news that Buck
was “clearing out.” He, Frank, had seen
him going quickly down the drive and turn
in the direction of the township. Ted rose
and together the two stood by the window
and looked down on to the road which wound
towards the town.
They saw Buck, clearly outlined against
the sky’s first flush. He had been walking
with the brisk, springing step of a man who
faced life full of hope. Upon the hill’s brow
he turned, and looked back at Northeote.
Then the figure wheeled about, and dipped
down out of sight.
“Shabby,” Frank began, struggling with
the joy that consumed him, “to let him go
like that.”
Ted shook his head. It was no more
possible, he knew, to restrain Buck, or any
mood or resolve of Buck’s, than to harness
the rollers of the sea.
The sun mounted, throwing long javelins
across the misty hills, crimsoning dark
slopes, filling runnels and valleys with folds
of violet. The whole world seemed wrapped
in a mantle that spoke of hope and peace.
The road that Buck trod seemed dusted with
gold.
After a while Frank went out softly and
in silence, and Ted, left alone, stared on
down the golden road. He was thinking of
the figure which had lounged on a rustic seat
beneath Kay’s window the night before, his
cigarette-point like a red firefly in the dusk.
He remembered, too, that Buck had paused
to snap off a spray of jasmine from the
bush under the window, and quickly gone
indoors.
He sighed. Always, in a dim, groping
fashion, he had loved Buck.
“Poor devil!” he said.
Horace v. Hopkins.
THE STORY OF A MAN WHO GOT INTO SOMEBODY ELSE’S SKIN.
BY J.O. BEEBY.
THROUGH a single window flooded the
early spring sunshine. The window
commanded the only view of the park
obtainable from Teplow House —an ironical
coincidence, for of all the legal gentlemen
inhabiting the building Mr. Horace Hopkins,
barrister-at-law, was the least affected by
winter rain and summer sun, trees stark or
green.
Mr. Hopkins passed most of the day-time
in the traditional, or perhaps inevitable,
lawyer’s room; old, lofty, drab, its walls
lined half-way with heavy, calf-bound
volumes above which hung old-fashioned
prints of deceased legal celebrities, stiff and
inhuman in their cumbersome trappings. A
shabby brown carpet was cut away round
the table, which stood opposite the door and
well out of line of the full light and waving
tree-tops. A young clerk, gently shutting
the door behind him after depositing a bundle
of papers on the table, looked strangely
subdued, as though the stifling mustiness of
that oppressive atmosphere had unnerved
him for the bustling life and bright sunshine
of the streets.
Undoubtedly the face bent over the desk
was the most attractive object in the room,
in its balance and proportion of feature,
the sensitiveness of the nostrils, the thin
woman’s mouth above the modelled chin, the
eyebrows long-lined and dark over the heavy,
drooping lids. Though Mr. Hopkins was
nearing fifty, the hair on the small, round
head, if thin, gave as yet no warning of
baldness; like everything about him, it was
a little shabby and a little moth-eaten.
For over an hour the steady and visible
beating of the pulse in each cheek gave the
only indication that the head above the
table belonged to a living man. Mr. Hopkins
at last put down his document, took his
glasses from his straight, clean-cut nose and
contemplated his hands. His fine, sensitive
hands, white and immaculately kept, justly
merited his attention; but he was not admir-
ing his personal attributes. The very com-
monplace thought had occurred to him that
it was growing late and time to go home.
He added the paper to the row of red-taped
documents lined along his desk, put on his
glasses and stood up with a sigh. Still ab-
sorbed in the contents of his brief, he jambed
his absurdly round felt hat well on the
back of liis head and walked down the
street to the tram; a nondescript creature,
slight of build, legs too long and body too
short, hands thrust into pockets, shoulders
hunched almost to deformity, treading with
large strides of peculiar deliberateness.
The suburban cottage whose gate he
finally entered was as inevitable as his pro-
fessional workroom. It was an ordinary,
comfortable bungalow, wide-verandahed,
trimly gardened, yet never failing to arouse
in him in his goings and comings a glow of
satisfaction, a sense of peace and solid
security. Though he did not consciously
note direct contrast with his working en-
vironment, he knew that his home pleased
him, more than pleased him, for in its un-
changing serenity, after the strain and diffi-
culties of the day’s events, he found his
refuge.
Mrs. Hopkins was writing a letter at the
oak “bureau” as he entered the pretty living-
room. He went over and kissed her with a
studied absent-mindedness. He always kissed
her absent-mindedly, as she invariably re-
turned a warmer caress to show she knew
he did not intend carelessness. She patted
some dust from his coat lapel and smiled at
him. ,
“Tired, dear?” she. asked.
“Not much,” he replied. “Been pretty
busy, though.”
Picking up a newspaper from her desk, he
slumped into an armchair near the fireplace
and she resumed her writing. He watched
her profile with the same inward sensation
of peace and relief. She was a little
younger than lie, a little taller. Her fluffy
brown hair was only slightly streaked with
grey, her complexion still fresh. Separately
her features were good; the collective effect
made the mouth too large, the nose too small,
the forehead a little broad —-till she talked.
When she talked the ill-balance of her face
was forgotten in the frankness of her brown
eyes and the gentle gaiety and goodness of
her smile.
They had been married twenty years. Had
Lillian Storm not been very much in love
with Mr. Hopkins he would assuredly have
remained unwed. They had worked in the
same solicitor’s office, he an articled clerk,
she a junior typist. Through the slow pro-
cess of courtship Lillian had become an
adept at taking the initiative without appear-
ing to do so. Horace was scarcely an ardent
wooer, but she was very indulgent and of
great patience. When she did succeed in
moving him to unexpected passion he re-
mained stiff and half-ashamed for a week
after; hut these rare moments apparently
satisfied her, and if she was a little dis-
appointed and baffled at his queer reserve,
she would recall the various qualities she
attributed to him, and the features she loved,
and be reassured.
Mr. Hopkins was the best managing clerk
the firm of Hodder and Brown ever achieved.
“Ask Horace” became the stock phrase of
the office. As a handler of clients he failed
.badly, but for accuracy and precision, unfail-
ing memory for details, store of legal facts,
cases and precedents he was unsurpassed.
Shunning novels, literature of all descrip-
tion, as he shunned people, lie worked with
avid concentration, not because he was ambi-
tious, nor conscientious from deliberate
motives, but because in the dry abstractions
of his studies and daily routine he was at
peace. He clung to his work like a feeble
swimmer to a lifebuoy. In it he could avoid
the discomfort —more, the anguish—of per-
sonal contacts. It saved him from reveal-
ing one atom of himself to curious or ques-
tioning eyes. He could say: “These are the
facts, these the rules, this the precedent;
therefore I advise this.”
Mrs. Hopkins, believing she understood
her husband, had made it her particular duty
to shelter him from betraying whatever dis-
turbances might occur behind his eternal,
imperturbable cheerfulness. For both of
them their years together had meant un-
ruffled tranquillity of relationship and
acceptance of each other’s habits.
When he abandoned the cloister of his
clerkship for a precarious livelihood at the
Bar Mr. Hopkins made the biggest mistake
of his career. As a barrister he was at first
a pathetic failure, and his mistake resulted
in many years of struggle and frugal living,
straining to the uttermost the endurance of
both. Yet his wife valued those lean days,
for she felt they had created bonds between
them that neither prosperity nor further
stress could weaken.
During the early years of their marriage
she very dimly sensed her husband’s trouble;
she felt him, behind his mask of cheerful
indifference, more remote from her. Watch-
ing him worn and pale, thin to a mere
skeleton, his eyes haunted, she could not
grasp the truth; she could only seize upon
the more obvious causes of hurt pride and
fear for her sake. His external optimism she
called courage. She did not dream that it
was his cowardice that was slowly destroy-
ing him. Nor did he. He did not consider
the more subtle causes of his distress at
all. He only found that before the morbid
details of divorce and criminal courts, from
the stark revealing of misery and suffering,
of ugliness and cruelty and the twists and
warps of men’s minds, his very soul withered
and shrank in horror and despair. Panic-
stricken lest he should betray the tumult
within him, he would sit, fascinated, watch-
ing the stolid, resigned faces of so many
of his clients as they unfolded their tale,
feeling more intensely than they the pain
behind the drab words, with the keenness
of a fresh imagination which visualised as
unbearable that which to them was familiar
and inevitable. Each day he slunk from
(Continued on next page.)


NEXT WEEK
COLOR BUND.
A New Guinea tale full of
humor and observation. One
of the best we have ever
printed and worth watching for.
JUST JOE.
A study of a queer man.
AND OTHERS.
¥
©
u
VN
s
&
w
5?*
Here are seen the
tiny pores thro'
which the refined
Zam-Buk carries
health into the
tissues.
C ORENESS, spots and chafing are all
*** signs that the skin is losing its invis-
ible oil-bath supplied from glands inside
the tissues. Skin trouble is best remedied
by regular dressings with Zam-Buk,
because this herbal balm contains valu-
able aromatic oils that make good
Nature’s deficiency and quickly restore
the skin to its normal health and flexi-
bility.
Zam-Buk Reaches the Inner Tissites
Zam-Buk is so highly re-
fined as to be readily
absorbed by the pores or
tiny breathing holes shown
by this magnifying glass.
Thus Zam-Buk gets at the
root of obstinate and irritat-
ing disease beyond the reach
of fatty ointments and dress-
ings which only clog the
pores and lie useless on the
skin’s surface.
Zam-Buk Heals from Be-
low and generates real skin
health. It ends pain and
irritation, annihilates germs,
draws off all bad matter, and
grows new skin.
There are many ointments,
but only one Zam-Buk. Be
sure you use this bland pre-
paration daily to conquer
unhealthy tendencies. Use
it for healing cuts, insect
bites, bruises, burns and
scalds, eczema, pimples,
boils, abscesses, ulcers, bad
legs, piles, ringworm and
poisoned wounds.
Get a box of Zam-Buk
from your chemist to-day
and keep it always handy I
1/6 box or 3/6 family size.
Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap,
1/- a tablet.
FREE SAMPLES
OF ZAM-BUK
BALM 8 SOAP.
Here is an opportunity of testing
Zam-Buk, the world-famed herbal
balm, and Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap
free of charge. Simply send your
name and address on a p.c. to
Messrs. C. E. Fulford (Aus.), Ltd.,
Sydney, and trial samples will be
posted by return. Mention Bulle-
tin of 25/7/’2B.
he World-Famed Natural Healer
his office and the courts, besmirched, falter-
ing, yet, most unwillingly, he was forced
gradually to admit the hard truth that un-
less he gave up the Bar he could neither
work nor live. Yet lie shrank from the
picture of himself creeping back, beaten, to
seek the shelter of office routine. The
thought of the veiled ridicule of his brother
clerks made him quiver.
The news that his wife was pregnant
appeared to decide the issue for him. He
shrugged his shoulders.
“I’ll have to get my old job back, I guess,
he told her. “Hodder’ll be only too glad
to have me.” She knew what the casual
statement had cost him.
A few days later he was flushed and ner-
vous as they sat at the monotonous evening
meal. “Had a win to-day,” he announced,
smiling at his tired wife, as though a little
bored with success.
“You won, Horace! How did you manage
it?” she cried.
“Just changed m.y methods,” he replied.
“Been learning a thing or two lately.”
Then he proceeded to describe to her the
legal niceties of the case.
From then on, slowly and steadily, he
won his way to the extent of a regular
thousand a year. Mrs. Hopkins never ques-
tioned him as to his change in methods.
She had grown accustomed to accepting
without probing too far into actions which
she knew would be painful if not impossible
for him to explain. The birth of a son
had completed her happiness.
Three years later the baby died of pneu-
monia. An incident of that bitter time was
shut tight in Mrs. Hopkins’s memory. The
afternoon of the death Mr. Hopkins had
persuaded her to try to rest. Too worn
out, too stricken for sleep, she had crept
at last to the quiet room where the body lay.
At the open door she paused. Prostrate
across the cot lay the slight form of her
husband. The creaking of the door roused
him. He got up slowly from the bed to
face her, and liis intense brown eyes, meet-
ing hers, shook her whole body as if with
a physical blow. She ran from the room.
The memory of that baleful, poignant stare
of the anguished human animal standing
defiant over its own naked suffering haunted
her for days. An overwhelming pity for her
husband almost made her forget her own
sorrow and feel bound to him even more
closely by a new and deeper understanding.
Gradually, in the interest of a new house
and surroundings, and the ordinary details of
living, she ceased to grieve over her lost
hopes and plans for the dead child. She
was too keenly alive to cherish morbid
broodings. Her life was rich for her,
full of friends and duties, the details of
committees, of clubs, of numerous charities,
of the whole limited circle in which she
moved, intensely busy, generally beloved.
She did not ask nor expect her husband to
share in her activities, as she had never
dreamed of sharing in his. Their strong
mutual affection, the quiet of the comfort-
able home, w r as the clearing-ground for their
separate occupations. She chattered to him
of Mrs. Smith and Mrs. Brown, the hospital
fete and the Lord Mayor’s Ball. He, in liis
turn, regaled her with the usual technical
intricacies of his Briefs. But beyond the
bare details of what was related, neither
attempted to trespass. Their two worlds
met in the half-light of words and the
warmth of a mutual sympathy unrelated to
the content of the words.
Mr. Hopkins appeared utterly friendless,
nor would his wife ever bring her own
friends to the house if he was home. It
was an unvoiced compact between them that
she should not force upon him the burden
of company. Sometimes she pondered over
wliat exactly it was that he feared, but in
the name of understanding she accepted
his desire for isolation as she respected all
his incomprehensible shrinkings. Generally
he worked in the evenings at home, or
browsed over the daily paper or some book
of “Famous Trials.” Once or twice a week
he stayed in town for dinner at his club,
nominally for a game of cards, actually in
the interests of his work. To the world of
men he was forced to meet in daily inter-
course and by the demands of his profession,
the exterior he presented never encouraged
any to seek him out nor to regard him
seriously in any way save that of one whose
legal opinion was worth having. That was
his intention ; he felt unburdened by respon-
sibility or obligations to any man.
This particular evening Mr. Hopkins was
pleased. He told his wife that he had
“snared a big bird, twenty guineas a day for
some weeks.... good advertisement and a
sure win.... Ellis, of Ellis and Co., up for
fraud... .several well-known brokers mixed
up in it... . might lead anywhere. I must
get back to the office to-night, dear, to see
some witnesses. Got something you can do?”
“I refused an invitation to a party at the
Jarrows,” she replied; “but since you’re
going out, I think I’ll slip round after
dinner.” , , .
He ate his meal hastily, obviously pre-
occupied. She buttoned his coat round his
neck, and affectionately watched him stride
down the path.
“Funny old thing!” she thought. “Really
so excited, and so dead scared of giving
himself away!”
It was well after eight o’clock before
she arrived at the Jarrows. Noticing
through the open French doors of the big
house many people moving about, she hur-
ried round the verandah to a bedroom to
take off her wraps. Across the small hall
the open door of the smoke-room revealed
two bridge fours in full swing. Desultory
“between deals” conversation reached her,
and a name held her attention.
“I hear Hopkins is to appear against
Harry Ellis,” said a thick voice.
“God help Ellis!” called someone in fer-
vent tones.
“Why?” came a thin, squeaky query.
“What’ll Horace do to him?”
“Do to him!” answered the fervent one.
“The poisonous callous little brute! I was
a witness at his tender mercies once!”
“I’ve met him at the Club,” the thick voice
continued. “Cheerful little blighter; bit foul
at times. My call. One heart.”
A player spoke from another table: “You
talking about Hopkins? Everyone knows
Horace. He’s the joke of the Bar. Nobody
takes any notice of him.”
The conversation lapsed into the jargon
of bridge.
Mrs. Hopkins, half out of her coat, put it
on again. She tiptoed back along the veran-
dah and walked slowly home. A persistent
phrase worried her—“ Poisonous, callous little
brute.” Horace? The gentlest of men,
the most considerate and kind —poisonous?
....callous?.... By the time she had
reached her own gate, more from curiosity
than any anxiety she had decided to see her
husband in action.
At ten o’clock the next morning she slipped
into a back seat of the crowded court. A
familiar figure stood up a long way off, and
a familiar voice, a little harsher in its
unusual loudness, made her feel less of an
intruder. As the morning wore on she could
not rid herself of a strange sensation of
unreality, a feeling that she would soon see
the curtain descend on this sordid tragedy
and mingle with the outgoing crowd relieved
to be free from so revolting a scene. At the
end of the room some vile creature was play-
ing his part in the face and form of one
who was dear to her, with a voice she
knew and yet could not wholly recognise in
its sawing harshness, which grated on her
taut nerves till she longed to scream from
sheer hysterical exasperation. She crept
nearer to the front benches where she could
watch this strangely-contorted, leering face.
The actor was like an automatic toy oper-
ated by invisible strings, jerked again and
again to his feet, bristling with feigned
passion, snapping, snarling, quarrelling with
iCounsel and with Bench; now lounging
insolently in his chair, insulting in his very
obsequiousness, sniggering at some suggestive
quip, seeking some mean advantage or joke
at his opponent’s expense ; now on his feet
again, shouting and sneering at the nervous
men and women in the witness-box; imper-
vious to rebuffs and rebukes from colleagues
and Judge. And always that interminable,
sawing voice!
Out in the street once more, back in her
own welcoming room, Mrs. Hopkins still
waited for the nightmare to cease. For the
next week she saw little of her husband; he
was home late, worn out, and away early.
She was glad; she could never have endured
to pretend interest in his comments on the
case. Doggedly now she followed him each
day to the court, and watched and listened
in growing despair as she saw all her years
of happiness poisoned, turned to an ugly
lie. For amidst the confusion of her
thoughts, the recollection of the announce-
ment made long ago, of his “new methods”
gave her no solace. At every effort to excuse,
to explain him, gnawed the sickening doubt
that perhaps it was the role of model hus-
band that was feigned, and the thought made
her feel that the very foundations of all
their life together were rotten. Though she
sought frantically to cling to the memories
of the husband she had known and believed
in, the two men became a blur, from which,
gradually, the creature of the court-house
emerged, predominating. In the rigid yet
natural honesty that was the essence of her
character, she shrank with loathing from the
idea of a future with him, a future corrupted
by her miserable, secret knowledge. The
picture was so repellent that it drove back
the subtle temptations of habit, of material
comfort and security. She stared with wide,
vacant eyes out into a meaningless future,
yet she could not compromise.
Horace won. He was triumphant in his
suppressed way. His manner, when he kissed
her after the final day, was more off-hand
than ever. Mrs. Hopkins did not smile at
his embrace.
“Had a big win,” he said casually.
“Horace,” she answered him, “I had a
letter from Ruth to-day. She wants me to
go with her to Europe.”
He looked at her quickly. The peculiar
deadness of her expression and her voice
stilled his words of question.
“I will not come back.” She paused. “I
have been in the court from the beginning of
the trial. I can’t bear you any longer. I
can’t hear you!” Her voice rose shrilly.
He went to the empty fireplace and leaned
his head against the shelf, staring down at
his feet. Suddenly he whirled round on her;
she saw again the distorted face of the court,
and the last flicker of hope died within her.
He stormed, he protested, he swore at her,
incoherently; then he stopped quite suddenly
as though amazed at himself.
“I am not that sort of man,” he whispered.
“I am not that sort of man!”
She continued to look at him, through
him.
“Do you know what sort of a man you
are?” she asked.
He did not reply. She waited for some
time, and satisfied that he would say noth-
ing more, went slowly across the room. At
the door she turned to look at him again,
with a last pitiful hope that some miracle
must reveal him to her.
He had raised his head and was staring at
the edge of the writing-desk, his forehead
knit in intense concentration into two little
furrows above his nose, his glasses held in
the delicate fingers of his left hand. She
could see the pulses beating in each cheek.
His expression was that of a man faced
by a profound and insoluble question.


m
-v
\
m
■
■
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents HOLMES CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
d^«ofeS?Hoia? , 4s BoK Street, Melbourne.
Sh AustraUan Agent.? Mesara. BtDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, B.A.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
AN IDEAL WINTER HOME. The most sheltered spot on the Harbor.
Incomparable for Comfort. Excellent Cuisine and Service. Private Beach
and Amphitheatre Baths. Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast if required. Luncheons, Afternoon Teas, Dinners.
Delightful 25-minutes J trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
p. RESERVATIONS: Y 3012, 4 Lines.
▲
7/V fIADE IN ENGLAND
/yFnOMß£*r SHEFFIELD STEEL
H
The morning shave is never r trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
Black Vulcanite Handle . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle . . • • . 21 /" *’
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Hay PLUM Razor Sets:
Black 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths; fin. and fin.
-Post-paid Prices
wrUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
each. Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
sr~- 654 GEORGE ST SYDNEY
If any illustration in “The Bulletin takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Backache?
Stiff Joints?
Rheumatism?
Here’s Quick Relief!
It doesn’t matter how severely you
suffer ageing aches, pains, and con-
sequent weak, worn-out spells, a few
doses, of Harrison’s Pills will make
a wonderful improvement in your
health; and one bottle will convince
you there is nothing to equal them
for renewing healthy activity in
men and women who are beginning
to feel their years. Hundreds of
genuine testimonials. One user
writes: “I got a bottle of Harrison’s
Pills about a month ago and it was
marvellous the good they did me.”—
M.H., Mt. Perry.
Another says: “I would have tried
Harrison’s Pills long ago but had
been disappointed with so many
other things. My sister gave me
some to try three weeks ago, and
I must say the pills are wonderful.
I am now quite free from rheumatic
pains which have bothered me for
years.”—M.T., Sydney.
Another writes: “My_, husband, has.
had kidney trouble for past 12
months; he has tried other pills
but got no relief and always in pain.
On Thursday last he bought a
bottle of Harrison’s Pills and he
says they are wonderful. Since
Friday night his back has been
splendid—it has not pained at all.
He cannot make out why they have
cured him so quick.”—Mrs. E.J.,
Hurlstone Park.
Remember: If YOU want to feel
years younger quickly and safely
without a single ache or pain—this
is the signed remedy of a London
doctor. Try it! Any chemist can
supply you. Satisfaction within 3
days, or money back guaranteed !
Harrison’s
st
Pills
REMOVE THE CAUSE OF ACHES AND PAINS !
Of All Chemists cmd Stores. Trial Size 2/-. Medium Size 3/-. Economy Size. 5/-.
H no Chemist near, order by post from Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney.
&nq£Uh
RuqMJeaque
Vtanv
come front
St.tkknd,
the home of
ReechanCd
mm.
nr MY?
INVINCIBLE
ir
m
a
D.
ag
ms
1414 5 h.p. 6-Cyl. Tourer
EXTREME flexibility with
top gear performance of 3
to 60 m.p.h. Four-speed gear
box, right hand change, low
gear axle ratio necessitating
change of gear on steepest
hills only. Built for the
Britisher overseas who wants
a suitable high-class British
car at the right price.
c
£_
Designed for Over-
seas conditions with
4 ft. 8 iru track, 9 J in.
ground clearance,
special springing,
special radiator and
fan to ensure perfect
performance on the
roughest roads or
tracks, and in the
hottest climates. Ex-
perts and owners all
over the world con-
firm that in the 14/45
six-cylinder model
we have the finest
Talbot Car that has
ever been produced.
Full particulars from:-
SYDNEY:
Buckle Motors, Ltd.,
187-189 William Street.
ADELAIDE:
Raseh Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street.
MELBOURNE:
Talbot Distributors Pty., Ltd.,
478 Elizabeth Street.
PERTH:
Arthur Bales, Ltd.,
367 Murray Street.
7
b
lie
o<f
S®
se^e^ 0, «# 4
<* -••••"


gWARDEg
50MEDAB
r///
r
a * tows
K&Jt
53
FINE '
t mows
%
UGur
:
« EXCLUSIVELY SUPPLIED TO THE
& TsDcstGnD Clubs
Joftii'DewaroSons L d
Distillers PERTHJScotluvd)* LONDON
PRODUCE OF SCOTLAND
'dnoisthi supervision qf thc common*** 1 * 11 {U * T9 " 5
wrrieo
1)
rssJ
%
vi
IS
Si
rd
am fis foapipiiest
It calls for discrimi-
nation and a real
knowledge of the
ship. In short it
calls for
ti
>v
ft
>
s
D
A
y
v.
£
A
