

V:
%
A
/C.
n
fa*
fjtiS
7
%//
%
Na
SO
'l
\
O
A
Ss
#
n
JOHNNIE
WALKER
WHISKY
Born 1820 -
Still going Strong
Call for "Johnnie Walker”
Remember that JOHNNIE WALKER is
more than a pleasing personality—it’s the
popular name of the Whisky that enjoys
the greatest sale h\ the world because it
MAKES friends and KEEPS them.
You will get the old matured -by - time -
and - nature whisky —if you say JOHNNIE
WALKER.
Bottled in bond under Government supervision.
Obtainable in the well-known
square bottle, half or quarter bottle,
or the new concave pint or half-
pint flask for convenient carrying.
WALKER 8t SONS LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, London and
|2j „ -Milvno iZL Lf I°" Dn °a>, l
In ~i,! i,L Q33iN ' , “ | 'n 3
«s" 'zxr.sirpgzs
I!
sqmvmv NouTaTHxrrsi
w&
v>
1
ii%B,?rr pj%
The Bulletin
OXftWJxdictt / ifcb / &ZAAZiL' i j
Vol. 49.—N0. 2533.
Wednesday, August 29, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


T H So? EW LTBR ARY CATALOGUE for
is now ready, and will he fm.
»ppStion th to f °" lil ' rtlC ” l " rS and twms ™
D ?3 OCK S BOOK arcade, ltd
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.”
T TW’ the USe . of waitin S f or to-morrow?
Where’* S (^ rgCnt "T for action you’ll allow
Whtm tl ? e , s:ense of suffering- j n sorrow
n . w “ at you need is waiting for you now?
I -V S J hvays *»n*erous with colds ?
And adds to all the ills you now endure
Send™/* flnal P has e unfolds—
Send foi Woods Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
Learn . i.
fieelcmceJoumquf 1
HOME I
THis BooK FREE to YOU'
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTPS Technical Correspondence Colle.ne
100 Russell Street, Melbourne °’
Please send, without obligation your TV*,,, r?
Boolclet, explaining how to Wri'te jZ ProM ™
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. 09
My Same
My Address
[LYSAGHT"
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
SHORT STORIES—Have you any ideas?
Vvliat is the use of them if you cannot
put them into proper shape and sell them?
WRITE TO—
METROPOLITAN BUSINESS COLLEGE, LTD
338 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
19
Everyone agrees that the
Daily Newspaper is a
wonderful advertising medium,
And in the Great State of
QUEENSLAND
the morning daily that to-day stands out easily supreme
THE DAILY MAIL
p °;
ROBERT JACKSON, N.S.W. Brand, Manager.
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
CLYNE HOUSE, 72 PITT STREET, SYDNE ,
'fc
A
i 1
Good I
for All
Times
ONOTO the pen is
more than equal to
any occasion that
may arise where
satisfactory writing
is the need.
Blots are unknown where an ONOTO is used.
It simply cannot leak. Ready for action the instant
pen and paper meet.
Thomas De La Rue & Co., Ltd., London.
Rep.: Norman Baker & Longhurst, Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Wellington, N.Z.
ALL BRITISH
Stationers and Jewellers
From 15/- eadH
□
0
D
the
ONOTO INK FOR ALL PENS
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
Ms
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL & Octet.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
è
THE MERCURY,
Tasmania’s Leading Daily
Newspaper.
ESTABLISHED 74 YEARS.
“The Illustrated
Tasmanian Mail”
(Published Wednesdays).
ESTABLISHED 51 YEARS.
M 1 • •
INo advertising campaign is
complete without including
Tasmania s leading; journals,
as both circulate extensively
over the whole of the State.
DAVIES BROS., LTD.,
Head Office: Macquarie St., Hobart.
SYDNEY~dFFICE:
F. L. WILSON, 228 Pitt Street.
’Phone MA3161.
MELBOURNE OFFICE-
“Argus” Building, Elizabeth Street.
LONDON OFFICE:
A - J - CHARD, 92 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
INDIGESTION
IS DANGEROUS
u people trifle with indigestion as a
minor ailment. ’ Never was a worse mis-
take! “Indigestion” can mean ulcerated
stomach—and may affect the heart. Anti-
acids and magnesia are unsatisfactory;
then brief reliei lulls to a false sense of
security. Aou must not only get rid of
the acid, but the cause of the acid, and
the one sure way to do that is to get
some six-grain tablets of Para-Pepsin and
take three with each meal. Para-Pepsin
not only stops stomach distress; it main-
tains correct digestion, sweetens the breath,
and helps Nature in a positive way to real
stomach health. The cost is very small,
and chemists everywhere not only supply
Para-Pepsin, but recommend it.
AFRAID OF FOOD.
.Jn„, Ts 2 COlTeCt a ' ditj <* the *«•“«'>. «a M, aifLptic properties prevert
“ food ' thus oliowiog the natural digestive ferments to act
and if taken regularly after meals they so lerments to act,
improve the digestion that a strict diet be-
comes unnecessary. ' Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes are most useful to those who suffer
from Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—Tins 1/6.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.:—
The Lancet, The Pbactitiones, etc.
IV
*"5 Jr.
Mmt utsv
6«KXH*MK*r«.O» M£Xt
•**>«&«'>
C.HUDSON
The Red Page
Education and Inspiration
the N F 's L r^’i U ' er 011 E ' n S lish Literature at
PrL' f Jol ese for Teachers, and Acting-
sitv ’ wis Literature at the Sydney Univer-
f ne „ of th ? judges in the hist Bulletin
Wlmt is the educational value of Aus-
tialian literature, and in particular of a
competition such as that which has just
been decided by The Bulletin? To me, it
is all summed up in the one word “Inspira-
tion. Every normal child .possesses im-
agination and the creative instinct. Many
teachers succeed in killing both. Shades of
the prison-house close too soon upon the
glowing boy. But why a prison-house at
ait. Let us, in Heaven’s name, try to
dissociate the ideas of school and gaol.
lisciphne, yes, as much as you like, but
disciplined freedom, not the rule of the
warder and the lash. Let those who would
like to see real freedom, in the pedagogical
sense, in full operation, pay a visit, some
Inday morning, to the kindergarten School
at Blqckfnars, where Rachel Stevens, be-
loved of mistresses, will demonstrate what
lie joy of child life and the joy of child
teaching really mean.
But about our Australian literature. Our
historic past of less than a century and a
halt is perhaps not as exacting as that of
mh^« ICa, w Ut K t 1S ? s stimulating to young
minds. We have had too few Australian
histoiical novels. The Bulletin competi-
tion has brought forth one great work, and
J H r w l f tmctly l good - The Picture
of New South Wales, and of Sydney in par-
ticular, about the middle of the last cen-
tury, as given by the Misses Eldershaw and
Barnard, is as vivid, as picturesque, as com-
pelling and as truthful as anything yet
written, and far more entrancing than those
sketches of Australian life given by Henry
Kingsley in his “Geoffrey Hamlynor
Mend” m his “ Never To ° Bate to
Most educational writers who discuss the
value of English literature as a subject
stress the importance of great models, par-
ticularly in the formation of style. This
is excellent for children learning the art
ot written expression, but carried to its
reauctio ad absurdum it becomes a vice
And on this rock many of our young writers
snhmhfpq'L Far tp f many of the novels
submitted bore evident traces of “sedulous
apery, if I may coin a term from the
phrase of Stevenson. Galsworthy, Cabell
and Katherine Mansfield were all requisi-
tioned. Why should not our Australian
writers aim at something a little more
personal in style and texture than a weak
imitation of that pseudo or meretricious
smartness which distinguishes at his worst
an Aldous Huxley or a Michael Arlen?
plafafy’tofd ” UCh V ‘ rtUe in * Pkm tale
Humor, I am convinced, with Mr. Cleg«-
is not a national Australian quality WhiTt
we have runs in definite moulds. It centres
rt2S?a D r! !, n n Dave ? nd the Steele Rudd
lustics. It dallies with cows, cobbers and
coves It loves the practical joke and the
sJang term. It rings the changes on “plurry”
and “too right” and “Gorstruth.” It is a
mmor, not of action, but of word-play. It
provokes a guffaw,* not a rollicking laugh •
a titter rather than an indulgent smile’
Amongst the 542 novels submitted there
were but two distinctly humorous, “Merry
Christmas and “The Bigamist.” I enjoyed
both °f them. If laughter be the sunshme
°i hfe most of our writers must, live in a
vale of gloom.
In all ages the novel has been in large
measure a reflection of the life of the period
/he novel of manners has a perennial
trnthfnf' Were , t . hese Bulletin novels a
t uthfu! representation or revelation of the
life of Australians? I believe so. Ther*
were however many dealing with epheim
end aspects of society. False sentiment,
ta ,e conception, false characterisation—all,
as might be expected, were to be found m
these novels. Never, too, was the long arm
of coincidence so wrenched from its socket
Ibe sex psychologists, emotional, erotic
pornographic, displayed their wares, often
But few of such novels
most of which appeared to be the work of
women writers, survived the first culling.
for An«? f r e a r- 10 or 15 years tlle market
one A Ttf been a rising
°ne The institution of an Australian
T nw° rS > W rf k ’ t f begin on September 2
Lawsons Day—has helped, and will help
he good cause. But much more must be
done if our boys and girls are to get such
a full knowledge and appreciation of their
own hteratnr 6 as wi,l help them to appre-
ciate their country’s contribution to letter*
Here is an outline of the necessary course
of development as I envisage it. First an
extensive and ever-increasing use of ’our
own Australian literature in our schools,
I particularly our primary schools, is essen
tial. In place of British and America
stories, let us draw on Australian worl
tor our supplementary readers and sehoo
magazines. Due insistence on a definit
proportion of Australian literature among s
the texts set for the public examination
should be part of our policy. In the lis
ol 1929 texts there is not a single Austra
nan book. Encouragement of locally
printed and -published books is a vita
question. The last and the present Gov
in N. S. Wales have both stressec
mis aspect when calling tenders for schoo
extbooks. Why should it be necessary to
mport cheap reprints when we have th<
nachmery and the men here capable o
iomg the work? How long will it be be
oie we have a University Press?
I here is, too, a decided need for the in-
titution of a University Lectureship in
Australian literature, or, as a beginning
he inauguration of an annual course o:
sctures, say, 10 or 12. A hundred a year
;om some patriotic citizen should be suffi-
ient to defray this cost.
And when is there to arise an Australian
terary historian? Is there no Gosse, no
aintsbury, no Stopford Brooke amongst
ur scholars who will provide us with an
uthoritative handbook to Australian litera-
n'e . lurner and Sutherland’s book is out
f date. Zora Cross and Nettie Palmer
ave just skimmed over the surface of the
3ld. Harry M. Green, Fisher Librarian,
as recently published a book —far too
le ‘ that makes one long for more. But
iei ? 18 „ no complete guide to our native
nakers, no standard by which to judge
em and their comparative importance as
ustralian writers.
Tke Bri.Li.RTix competition must have
70 definite effects. First, it will stimu-
te authors themselves to write fiction and
submit it to expert judgment. Second,
will stimulate public interest, will put
rtain names on the literary map, will in-
case our reputation abroad.
G. MACKANESS.
Outline of Esthetic History
I Perhaps the reason for the scant praise
bestowed by critics abroad upon Australian
artists who pass as quite good painters here
is that most of the pictures painted by
Australians are landscapes of a realistic
type It may also be true that the failure
of the outside world to fling lyrical praise
at our poets is because they are largely
pastoral and paint word-pictures of Aus-
tralian landscapes.
t thoughts have come upon me when
I ha\ e looked at beauties of nature which
give rise to great ecstasy of soul when
viewed by Australians, whether artists
poets or peasants; for such sights have
left me cold and unmoved. Now, I first
sommenced living my boyhood completely
surrounded by mountain ranges upon whose
peaks great quantities of snow were con-
stantly to be seen, and over which the si i
requently disappeared in an orgy of gaucy
solors. And I vividly remember, durin
ny adolescence, when the budding of m
nanhood was playing havoc with mv peac
>f mind, observing this phenomenon wit
infailing appreciation. Standing upon
nil (one always stood upon a hill, for ther
?as nothing else upon which to stand) !'
muld gaze in literal adoration at the sight
l mystical sense o'f sublime revelation
'ould suffuse me, and I would be conscious
f an acute and ecstatic soaring of what :;
eemed to be my soul. Instinctively my
ands would reach upwards and outward
ad an incoherent prayer would move mv
ps.
The flatness of most of Australia seem
> me merely ugly; but it lifts the Austra
m to those realms of delight which I have
ist tried to describe because he has spent
s childhood among those soenes, and he
is not out-grown the emotional state that
acts to them. There is probably no more
;auty in my mountains than in the Aus-
dian’s spreading plains; but there is a great
ia] -of race-history behind the appreciation
5 have each felt for our particular brand
landscape. It harks back to the days of
bal barbarism, when each distinct unit of
ciety had its being solely on its own little
ot of earth, whose inhabitants looked
to that spot for their sustenance and-held
ffs possession dearer than life itself. The
welfare of the tribe demanded that the emo-
tions of each should concentrate upon that
confined territory, with no room whatever
lor the appreciation of any of. the charac-
teristics of any other place. No one can
say of course, for how many thousands or
milfions of generations this state of society
held sway m the race-heritage which is ours
but, it was certainly for an incalculably
long time; and when this tribal barbarism
(Continued on page 5.)


Anthony Horderns'
Offer utmost value in
Motor Accessories and Auto Tents.
All Japara, £B/5/-
KTISK—No. 1, All Japara Lean-to
Auto Tent, no bonnet cover. Is the
lightest rainproof tent procurable,
weighing about 121 b., with ropes.
Can be pitched in a few minutes.
Complete with four 3£ft. poles and
eighteen galvanised
iron pegs. Each . . .
£B/5/-
Marquee, £l2/15/-
KTI6K—No. 3 Marque Auto Tent.
Size 15x15 feet, with waterproof
Khaki Birkmyre top. 6ft. duck walls,
centre telescopic pole, Bft., with 8
poles 6ft. for sides, 18 small tent
pegs and 1 2 large. Complete with
ropes attached. Also Tent and Pole
Bags. Calico division dividing tent
into two rooms, each
15 ft. x 7ft. 6in. Price
each
£l2/15/-
i r ~
Auto Tents
For the motorist who camps out, the Auto
Tent. It is easily handled, and can be pitched
in a few minutes, making a tent large enough
for four stretchers. The car is separated from
the sleeping compartment, which is 9ft. x 9ft.
less hems and seams, and the walls taoer to
3ft. 6in. in height.
Birkmyre Top,
Calico Walls
KTK23K —No. 2 Auto Tent, Khaki
Birkmyre Roof. Best Calico walls
and bonnet cover. The whole car
is covered. Includes 4 6^ft. col-
lapsible poles, 4 poles 3ft. 6in. and
24 galvanised pegs.
Price, each
£lO/15/-
American Duck
KT2SK American Duck. 36in.
wide. Per yard . . 1/9, 2/3, 2/11
72in. wide—
Per yard: 2/3, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6, 6/11
KT26K— Birkmyre Duck Water-
proof. 72 inches wide. Khaki. Per
yard - 8/3, 10/9
Use Our “D.P.S.”
(Deposit Purchase System)
You pay only the Cash Price.
Simply leave a small deposit on
the goods you require. Pay the
balance in instalments to . suit
yourself. There is no extra
charge whatever. Goods are
carefully stored until payments
are completed.
Weed Chains
Weed Chains are made of heavy wire of high tensile
strength, and are heavily galvanised to prevent rusting.
Indispensable for use on country roads, prevents skid-
ding and ensures a firm grip on “greasy” roads. Chains
can be fixed to the wheels in a few minutes. These well-
known chains are offered at Anthony Horderns’ “famous
low prices”:—
Q
’Phone M 2401
and order your requirements just
as the thought occurs to you.
Our usual number, M 2401, is
available any hour, day and
night. This service is for your
benefit —use it. Trunk calls are
half-rates between 7 p.m. and
0 a.m.
Price
Size 30 x3i .. . 31/6
Size 32 x 3? ... 37/6
Size 31 x 4 ... 41/-
Size 32 x 4 ... 41/-
Size 33 x 4 ... 45/-
Size 34 x 4 ... 48/-
Size 35 x 4 ... 62/-
Size 32 x4| ... 48/-
Size 33 x ... 50/-
é
ê
T
23
2^l
r
Replacement Springs
for all makes of Motor-cars and Trucks
These Springs are manufactured from Silicon Chrome Steel, thereby
ensuring utmost durability. They are guaranteed equal to the car
manufacturers’ specifications and rigidly tested. Anthony Horderns’
can supply any kind of Replacement Spring for any make of motor-
car or truck, the complete stock including 800 different springs.
Quotations promptly supplied for Springs not mentioned above.
For Cars
For Buick, Model 1925. Standard
Six..
1 1 plate front spring . . 42/-
7 plate rear spring .... 54/3
Front main plate 14/-
Rear main plate 19/9
For Dodge, Model 1921/22
6 plate front spring. ... 21/-
8 plate rear spring .... 38/-
Front main plate 10/6
Rear main plate 14/-
For Essex, Model 1925,
6-cylinder.
8 plate front spring. .. . 26/-
8 plate rear spring .... 49/-
Front main plate 12/3
Rear main plate 19/3
For Chevrolet, Model 1925/27.
Improved.
7 plate front spring .... 31/6
7 plate rear spring .. . 45/6
Front main plate 12/3
Rear main plate 15/9
For Cars
For Hudson, Model 1924-25,
O Coach.
For Cars
For Pontiac, Model 1926/27.
8 plate front spring .... 29/9
8 plate rear spring .... 43/9
Front main plate 10/6
Rear main plate 14/-
For Fiat, Model 501, 10.15 h.p.
1 1 plate front spring . . 24/6
1 1 plate rear spring . . 49/-
Front main plate 8/9
Rear main plate 14/-
For Ford, all models previous to
1926.
Front spring 12/3
8 plate front spring .... 14/9
9 plate front spring .... 18/6
Rear spring 40/-
9 plate rear spring .... 44/3
10 plate rear spring .... 52/6
Front main plate 3/11
Rear main plate 8/-
For Ford, latest model 1926/27
(low camber).
8 plate front spring .... 14/9
Rear spring 40/-
9 plate rear spring .... 44/3
For Cars
10 plate rear spring. .. . 52/6
Front main plate 3/11
Rear main plate 8/-
For Trucks
For Chevrolet, 1-ton, 1926
Improved Model.
Front spring 35/-
Rear spring 84/-
For Leyland, 3-ton.
Front spring 59/6
For Thornycroft, 3-ton, “A 3.
1927 Model.
Front spring 42/-
Rear spring 91/-
For Vulcan, 30-cwt, 1926 Model.
Front spring 35/-
Rear spring 70/-
For Ford, 1-ton, 1926/27, latest
Model.
9 plate front spring . . 19/-
All models, right or left
rear spring 26/3
(CARRIAGE EOT PAID ON ANY GOODS IN THIS ADVERTISEMENT.)
Anthony Horderns'
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


<&>
&
&
o
&
<B>
<B>
<c : :
<£>
r-
$
&
&
<s>
S>
&
A>
a*v r
,et
f
\on
u Vt fSt V teC ' S e veV
ts-n infer
forW
oteiy
ttoV®
tioV»
i* lll taU e A V^ et
- ;0 u 1 -*>ea v
js> e^
for * e *e
s oi°y
*** t \ve
ew “; o t°r' ltlg -«cVi» se '
t<VO
lttvetV -ottve ut \
v V;\es atv -
90** 1 ; W**
20 **
* e * -" U a e
„„ *W.
°«<* e **
SW . „
,eer' n8 ’
tv
C <T _
-a
H et
lYv©
j**' ~-'*
it*
i»t°°
sv*
tve*
st« oc ; to ut e t Av
btgg cr ’ fll °n i« l?tOVe s e-P oV,et A
b noV»‘ **„
. rt e* s< \ rt rb etS ’ \ bt»^ e t
V* *£»< ■*««»• "T»
tv<
ed a ii
oi t? et Al otv C^ S tic*-W
„ °" , e atUS
* e V? »***
et o^ eA v Ocvvs c^o* 1
sW 1
.^vonV.
See
Tie*
tOUt t *U''* C °
cioo*
»t* e " __ ba trtl
»PV
V ° ’
W*' 3 *. „t tfv
More Room
Added Power
Greater
Ceonomy*
STUDEBAKERS ERSKINE SIX
Royal Sport Tourer £ 315
Erskine Models from £315 to £448
Director Models from £4lB to £568
Commander Models from £528 to £628
President Models from £698 to £B6O
All new models equipped with shock absorbers, bumper bars, and four-wheel brakes.
PRICES F.O.R. SYDNEY.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors;
NEW SOUTH WALES.
The Studebafer Corporation of Australasia Limited,
4-16 YURONG STREET (just behind the Museum), SYDNEY.
VICTORIA.
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd.,
41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.,
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important towna.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Millingens, Limited,
42-48 Franklin Street. Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Adams, Ltd., 152-154 High Street*
Christchurch.
STUDEBJIKER*
Studebaker holds all the highest Speed and Endurance Records for fully equipped Stock Cars in Australia and America.
WEB 4&


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
(IN CO-OPERATION WITH WAGONS-LITS. CO.)
e
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
gradually developed into civilisation, and
the borders of our ancestors’ homes spread
out to farther and ever farther national
frontiers, the custom of travelling long or
even short distances was centuries in form-
ing. It was during those countless genera-
tions of barbarism that humanity’s habit of
emotional reaction to landscapes and to
“nature” was developed, and it seems to me
inevitable that the man or woman with the
most powerful adoration for the beauty of
his own home-land will be the one least
moved when confronted by whatever
arrangements of earth, herbage and firma-
ment he may encounter elsewhere, for that
adoration is an expression of a purely bar-
baric instinct.
The social conditions known as barbarism
passed many generations before the mind
and emotions of barbarism ceased to be
common to all; and only gradually and in
a few people, specially favored and uniquely
placed, did the emotional outlook come
to harmonise with the wider national, or
even international, social interests of man-
kind. Even to-day those who think nation-
ally are but a meagre minority and those
who are capable of suitable reaction of the
passions are extremely rare. Quite early
in the history of civilisation, however, a
class did arise that thought nationally, and
a few men appeared who felt in a manner
other than tribal.
When the political necessity for a tribal
outlook passed, certain very superior ones
gradually came to look about them and see
that all was not perfect on their little dung-
hill, and the more cultivated of them ex-
pressed this dissatisfaction through art. In
other words, they created, for their own
satisfaction, through the plastic or written
arts, a more self-satisfying realm. They
ceased to react powerfully to the supposed
beauties of nature. They were no longer
content with the biological fact that a
woman was a woman; and from this “divine
discontent” came all the beauty that is most
lasting, most inspiring and most satisfying
to the small quota of mankind that has out-
lived the instincts of the tribe.
When I viewed in rapt adoration the
descending sun in those mountainous sur-
roundings, I was still a tribesman at bottom,
and when our artists and poets express
similar enthusiasms for the phenomena
peculiar to their own home-scenes they are,
whatever their age, identifying themselves
with the millions of mortals whose emo-
tional progress is many centuries behind
the social progress of the race. They are
barbarians at heart, and simply can’t help
it. But the individual who spurns these
simple scenes because they seem to him
banal and imperfect, and because they do
not stimulate in him any high thoughts
or beautiful visions or civilised passions,
thereby revolts against the primitive im-
pulses that still throb in the race.
LESTER WAY.
A Timely Resurrection
Altogether Dr. Johnson said practically
everything that was ever necessary about
Jonathan Swift’s life. Whatever his curi-
ously wrong-headed and yet shrewd half-
dozen pages left unsaid received definite
.justice at the hands of Orrery, certainly of
Scott.; and whatever damage the carping
of Macaulay and the slating of Thackeray
did to Swift’s reputation, Time and a score
of friendly advocates have conspired to
correct. The latest of these friends is
novelist Shane Leslie, who, in The Skull
of Swift (Chatto and Windus; Dymock’s),
blows a vast amount of wind into old
Johnson’s dry-bone summary. Exactly
what almost invariably happens when a
novelist turns biographer happens in this
instance; Shane Leslie cannot forget nearly
well enough his other craft, which demands
of the craftsman that he be entertaining
first and informative afterwards, if at all.
In his romantic biography Shane Leslie
cannot be accused of not being entertain-
ing. Biography, always (as distinct from
autobiography, that wedding and consum-
mation of conceit) very easy reading to me,
here calls for no effort at all: the cold story
of the Hamlet-turned-churchman who
worked in Sir William Temple’s library and
meditated in Temple’s meticulous garden,
balanced himself with fairly lasting facility
between Whigs and Tories, became the virtual
King of Ireland, married, or did not marry,
Stella, wrecked Marlborough and was so
secretive about his writing that there re-
mains no evidence that some of the most
important of it really was his, is told with,
the fluent pen of the entertaining novelist.
Its fault is that it is neither a novel nor
a biography, but something between the
two. Anyone who wants to read about
Swift, or wants to re-read what he already
knows, will find the task easier and, pro-
vided he does not accept the Dean on
Thackeray’s estimate, more entertaining
here than perhaps anywhere else. But lie
will still not know whether the dirtiest
genius of the language was English or Irish,
and that is about the only undecided point
that matters at all. Indeed, apart from his
delightful telling of the finding of the skull
of Swift and the judgment of phrenologists
upon that inverted bowl of bone —
“amativeness large and wit small,” they
said—-the most novel thing Shane Leslie
has hit upon is his theory that Swift had no
soul, of which idea the book is really an
elaboration; and it, of course, demands
from the reader (a) the admission of a
soul and ( b) the acceptance of Shane Les-
lie’s conception of that rather nebulous
perquisite.
But it is in regard to one of the most
brutal sides of the dirty Dean s dirt that
this resurrection seems timely. It has been
pointed out recently in The Bulletin that
it is becoming quite impossible to react
a newspaper without coming across some
fulsome aggrandisement of Woman, not
as an inspiration of chivalry, not as
Man’s moral superior, not as a Heaven-sent
physician and friend —and all that ana
more I give her—but as a mere harem
utensil. By gloating hands she is made
more and more seductive to the eyes ol
lust. It is the same in fiction—read 20
novels at random from the bookshelves —
and Woman cannot be said to be very
vigorously resenting the treatment. I be-
lieve—sadly, but certainly—that this can
lead to nothing but revulsion against
Woman; the sort of revulsion that was
felt by Swift without nearly so much
public ' cause. “Last week,” he once said,
“I saw a woman flayed alive, and you will
hardly believe how much it altered her
person for the worse.” Shane Leslie sug-
gests that Swift sensed how a future reader
would wince or some lover of women grow
sick over that side of his savagery. I
suggest that the time cannot be far off
when anyone who reads the Dean will
accept that side of him with something like
satisfaction. Then we will be near the
crossroads, and Woman may be stepping
into some equivalent of her old noble
place. For reminding the world of its
greatest antidote against the poison of
current erotic pawkiness Shane Leslie does
a service none the less worthy for being
unintentional.
CECIL MANN.
Coonardoo
“Coonardoo,” with which Katharine Sus-
annah Prichard won one of The Bulletin’s
two £5OO prizes, takes its name from a black
girl who figures largely in the story. The
word means “The Well in the Shadows,”
and the child was named after the place
where she was born. She grew up as the
playmate of Hugh Watt, the only son of the
owners of a cattle station on the Ashburton,
in nor’-west Westralia. The station was
managed first by his father and afterwards
by his mother, the latter always the better
man of the two; and Miss Prichard (Mrs-
Throssell) paints a vivid picture of a
woman’s life and work on a remote run.
There are fine incidental glimpses of the
life of the aborigines of those parts —easily
the finest type of blacks in Australia.
The story is crammed full of interest, and
The Bulletin regards itself as extremely
fortunate in having assisted in its produc-
tion. It will be published serially; the first
three or four chapters will appear in an
enlarged Bulletin next week.
Novels Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee of judges nominated by the Associ-
ated Booksellers of Australia and Maori land.
It is issued to serve as a guide to books
of merit:—
General Literature. —Our Inheritance, by
Stanley Baldwin ; On the Barrier Reef, by
Elliott Napier; The Uncensored Darda-
nelles, by E. Ashmead-Bartlett; Coo-ee Talks,
by Wm. Robertson; Open Conspiracy, by
H. G. Wells; The Memoirs of Raymond
Poincard, Vol. 2, translation by Sir Geo.
Arthur.
Literary Merit. —Keeping Up Appearances,
by Rose Macaulay; The English Miss, by H.
R. Mottram.
Popular Beading. —But Gentlemen Marry
Brunettes, by Anita Loos; Skin o’ My Tooth,
by Baroness Orczy; The Master Mystery, by
“Seamark”; Brook Evans, by Susan Glas-
pell; Something for Nothing, by E. J. Rath;
Helen, by Georgette Heyer; Octavio, by
Margot Oxford; Tales from Greenery Street,
by Denis Mackail; The Greene Murder Case,
by S. S. Van Dine; Countess Fanny, by
Marjorie Bowen; Keeping Up Appearances,
by Rose Macaulay.
A Satchel of Books
Canadian Fairy Tales, by Cyrus Mac-
millan (Bodley Head). It was when he
was in France with one of the McGill Bat-
teries that Major Macmillan gathered
together the folk-tales and fairy stories that,
called “Canadian Wonder Tales,” ran into
a couple of editions; this is a further col-
lection of such tales, and, like the other,
is now available in the Bodley Head’s in-
expensive “Week-end Library.” Some of
the stories are obviously not Canadian in
origin; they spring from the roots of the
various races that have populated Canada;
but many of them do belong to the old
Indian race of that country, and into all
the author has breathed an atmosphere that
is as definitely Canadian as the tales are
fresh and entertaining.
General Crack, by George Preedy (Bodley
Head; Dymock’s). A fine historical novel,
concerned with the setting up on his
Emperor’s throne of Leopold, Elector of
Bavaria, by the mercenary, Crack (Christian
Rudolph Augustus Christopher Ketlar, Mare-
ehal de France, Prince of the Holy Roman
Empire, Knight of the Orders of Poland and
Saxony) ; with Crack’s inordinate but re-
strained passion for the little Princess Elean-
ora, whom he takes in unconsummated
marriage as advance payment for assisting
Leopold; and with the secret, childlike love
of the Princess for that weak-willed Emperor
and the unfaithfulness of these two, un-
suspected at the time by Crack. It is con-
vincing without being sordid, romantic with-
out pawkiness; thei;e are few things finer
in recent fiction than the transformation of
Leopold’s cold and ruthless diplomatic
adviser, Count Hensdorff, into an ardent and
passionate admirer and supporter of the
General, and Crack is an uncommonly bril-
liant piece of character-making.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications f'
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
C.G.L. (Oakleigh) : Yes, it was a poor gag,
but it was a darned fine drawing.. .N.S.D.; “Nerves”
not strong enough... .Chas. G.: Even but undistin-
guished. .. .E.J.: Unconvincing... .R.R.T.: “Don’t
tell me it’s as dreary as a Prohibition lecture.”
We won’t. It’s as dreary as Prohibition.... Fred
W.: A set of surveying instruments required to And
the point W.T.W.: “Cares and reckons”—that
forced use of a word for rhyme’s sake !.... Dunbar:
A gloomy horror, and verbose to b00t.... D.L.M.:
It’s more like a woman telling her husband about
his sins than a story... .R.S.P.: No need to explain
that “the characters are fictitious.” Nobody would
take them to be real.... Dora G.: So the parson
came to afternoon-tea and asked her to marry him.
Well, well! Denis O’C.: Ah, this is the note: —
Hold your hand, you blood-stained miscreant!
Hold your hand, thou varlet vile!
If thou ever hadst a mother,
Do not hurt a harmless child!
L.A.: Your husband deserted you and you wrote
the verse “as a punishment” ? But we didn’t desert
you Della M.; Hire a new. spider to write your
copy P.1.N.: Declined —with spanks Naughty
N.: You dreadful, dreadful cave-woman! R.0.D.:
Neigh to “The Horse”... .8.L.1L: “Stirs not thy
heart?” not a single stir....L.L.: The musical verse
sounds like a search for an idea... .D.P.M.: A good
point, but the treatment bored us C.M.G.: Not
quite good enough... .Eunice H.: Too much of a
crowd at that d00r... .L.R.W.: “Facts” nearly got
through L.K.: The sporting editor was pleased
at being made your hero....T. Fitz: All crude....
E.E.: The revised “Dewdrops” got very near....
G.P.S.: Your “bird of freedom’s wing” is flying back
as fast as a postage-stamp can carry it B.A.J. :
The axe had to fall on your gum-tree Emel: A
few lines of “Eventide” spoil it E. J.D.: It’s
merely a rhymed bush directory... .Rose W.: Just
missed H.1.M.: No use for skit which ‘has
caused a lot of trouble and loss” P.L.T.: “Un-
rest! Unrest! A wild unrest! Alas! Ah, me! At
this stage it tossed itself tumultuously into the
w .p.b C.W.P.: If you want to write verse, shelve
the drag-over from stanza to stanza... .J.V.0.L.: A
faint—very faint —echo of Poe’s dreaming. .• •
A.G.: Hardly enough in it V.T.H.: Try “The
Settlers’* again... .Ron McO.: The finale is good , the
rest is unimpressive... .A.H. (Newfarm) :We said a
plain farewell to “Au Revoir”. .. .Nemo: Nicely
written; but we’re not a copybook. .. .E.A.8.: Album
verse F.H.W.: Why “orange hoops”?.. .W.S.S.H. :
Marches out, returning to base A.8.P.: The end
is crudely abrupt... .0.W.W.: The “Nark’ only
narked Winton K.: The bed-time story has no
grip Polly W.: It had us guessing; finally we
guessed not M.H.S.: Sticky with honey-sweetness.
And it’s not our habit to “read the first two lines
and throw it away” W.J.T.H.: Inadequate ex-
pression J.D.S.D.; Don’t care for dream-stones
and you give us one dreamt a t the other end of
the earth Sappho; “Written for ‘Smoke-oh’”
it ended in cinders. .. .T.S.McN.: The verse is enough
to bring the curse of Prohibition... .Archer R.:
You don’t hit the mark 8.J.W.: You’d “ SOO J) eT
die of starvation,” eh? Have you ever nearly died
o{ it ? G.L.S.; What made you think the Battle
of Hastings story would interest us?... .A.8.T.:
Terrible; “aftermath —laugh” is quite a minor fault.
Harry L.; Take it away T.J.H.: Your spring
pome was not the worst of the avalanche... .Jack
M. S. D.: Wrong in your basis. The “strong, silent
hero” was a Victorian-age creation.... Oliver O.:
Pipped on the post... .E.H.W.: That section is
fairly well covered; but if you’ve anything interest-
ing send it along... .R.C.; None hit the mark....
V.P.: We, too, have suffered because of a friendly
comment upon something of the sort ... .G.F.T.: For
one bright moment we thought it was “Bottle
Hymn” F.M.A.: Your “Medicine” was a pi 11....
D.M.S.: So that’s your notion of “a real Australian
story”.... Socks: No good, darn you. .. .D.A.S.: The
incident is not so much singular as puerile. .. . Peicy
L.: Your “Chuff” would need too much winnowing.
... .R.L.W.: “Diamonds —Highlands” goes in the
worst-rhyme competition. .. .Pan D.; At the 21st
page we noticed the w.p.b. yawning Z.V.W.; Not
in our line Herbert M. : Your Smithers is a cad.
Mill: On with the dance! —but not to 17 eight-
line stanzas. ..*.A.X.H.; What happened? J.G.W.:
All are crudely worked and terribly talky....
F.N.W.: Has points, but becomes wearisome Thos.
L.: Sundowner verse tramps back.... May A.: No, it
j sn >t P.L.; A verse that would pass for such an
occasion would not necessarily go well in print;
and yours doesn’t... .Oozalia: Overdone... .Jerry E..
Stodgily told E.E.S.: A good point; but you
wander all round the compass. .. .J.E. (Warran-
dyte) : This isn’t the right vehicle Joseph: Got
tired of your unobtrusiveness... .L.M.0.: After read-
ing “Lethean Waters” we would like a little for-
getfulness ourselves... .E.M.: Poorly told, yet some-
thing good might have been made of it W.W.8.:
Your “stars” are mere asterisks. .. .M.G.McG.:
We’ve sent the bad girl home... .G.K.S.: There,
now—there !.. . . A.E.A.: Ebbs out..• .Fangaloli.
Whatever we print we like to pay for F.T.M.:
Goes in Christmas number. The obvious error was
corrected A.G.N.: Dreadfully stilted... .James G.:
Thanks; but we’ve got to consider the 100 per
cent. .. .E.S.D.: No use to us C.R.E.C. (Upper
Burma): There’s good stuff in the yarn, but you
haven’t struck the right method M.C.P.: Roses
faded out —you kept the subject too long Quire:
Nothing fresh about your “Spring” Y.N.C.: Not
real enough... .J.F.P.: Died away in the last furlong.
R.L.P.: Story good in its way, but too sombre.
T.A.C.: Not worth 72 lines Peter L.: The
man who told you the verse was a gem was no
jeweller L.S.S.: We scattered your “Ashes”
J.McN.: A mere pathetic retrospect and a death. ...
Warrawee: That fur-coat story has called four
times this year... .Olive H. S.: Try to polish them.
.. . . S.S.T.: No cream in “The Cow.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.5.: A hint of talent, but very scratchy work as
yet L.R.T.: Gag falls flat N. 8.: We’ve never
seen legs like those A.C.H.: The short-sighted
Scotchman is on his way back W.G.R.:
Feeble little effort A.W.R.: Try us with some-
thing bigger and better drawn W.T.M.L.: No, as
the lady said R.P.K.: Without merit J.H.:
You can do better; the joke is a poor pun.


9
N.S.W. Prohibition Referendum Sept. Ist
OF PROHIBITION
BEWARE
PUT YOUR X IN
THE BOTTOM
SQUARE
- !»
->.r&rss
•-
fa
n
I lUh.
'/A
'Q
®ss*s


The Bulletin
Vol. 49.—N0. 2533,
August 29, 1928.
THINGS MIGHT BE MUCH WORSE.
N.S.W.: “Honestly, Uncle, what DO you think of Prohibition?”
UNCLE: “M’dear (hie), it’sh not good, but it’sh better than no liq (hic) uor at all.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Alan.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, ot
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
Brisbane Office : 249 Adelaide Street.
Perth Office: 33 Barrack Street.
Adelaide Office: 12 Evans Buildings, James Place.
London Office: 36 Southampton Street, Strand,
W.C.2. Gerrard 8836.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 l t s.; 6 months, 12s. fid. ; 8 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. fid.; 8 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.K.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding tivo columns in length, or, say,
8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS, will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — be., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“Tlie Bulletin” is obtainable at the Bookstall
In tiie Main Hall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.4; and IV. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.4;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 46 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” 414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son.
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Honolulu.— Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and 42nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West 41st Street, New York City.
Washington; Liberty News Co., Seattle, Wash.; Burrill
C. Johnson, 338 2nd Avenue, North Seattle, Wash.;
Wheatley News Co., 704 Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans Neivs Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News
Stand, 5414 South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Monarch News Agency, 115 West 6th Street, Los
Angeles, Cal.; Smith Bros.’ News Co., Box 573
Arcade Station, Los Angeles, Cal.; and from the
Barber on Union S.S. Co.’s and Matson Co.’s mail
boats.
Bgypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China.— Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, S.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel; and from the Barber
on boats of K.P.M. Line.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street.
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bookstall, Galle Face Hotel,
Colombo; M. Atmaram and Sons, 44 Chatham Street,
Fort Colombo; A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York
Street, Fort Colombo; The Colonial Photographic
Co., York Arcade, Fort Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby „
Pub — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 40z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
fi^ShzlZeiwi.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 1928.
SUPPOSE SINGAPORE IS DROPPED?
The air manoeuvres over London, which
synchronised with a story from Washington
that the Singapore Base scheme is to be
dropped, supplied the justification of the
rumor. John Bull is a sorely harassed cap-
tain of Empire these days. His standing
army of over a million unemployed in-
creased, in a recent period of seven weeks,
by 155,988, and Priminister Baldwin was
driven to the unprecedented step of circu-
larising thousands of employers imploring
them to find work for men from the coal-
fields. The realisation by the public of
the very real danger of an air invasion,
and the knowledge that Britain has no
hope of dominating the Pacific in the long
run if the U.S. or Japan decides to the con-
trary, must do a lot to diminish the
already waning enthusiasm of taxpayers for
the Base.
Home defence in Europe is becoming in-
creasingly a question of air defence. Italy
looks forward to a day when “the wings of
aeroplanes above the peninsula will eclipse
the sun,” and Russia’s immense Red Aii
Force, with its 1500 military aircraft, is, in
the phrase of the Isvestya, “Sovietism’s last
word in reply to Chamberlain.” What this
fierce competition means is that the impov-
erished British will have to go on creating
and maintaining more and more anti-air-
craft stations and more and more R.A.F.
squadrons. With their immense naval and
other commitments they will be forced
eventually to economise somewhere, and
the place where the constituencies would
undoubtedly prefer to see economy dawn
is at Singapore. As it is, the big dry-dock
scheme has been shelved, and the floating
dock which went through the Suez Canal a
week or so ago will act, in a specially
dredged area, as a substitute. And even
this compromise is at the mercy of the first
pacifist Government which gets into power
in the U.K., and decides to make a popular
gesture. Meanwhile home defence in Aus-
tralia is becoming more and more a ques-
tion of air defence, as in other countries,
and here air defence depends to a great
extent at present on an adequately-
defended overseas base—namely, Singapore.
The Anglo-Persian oil, on which the Com-
monwealth depends for its motor transport
by land or air, would cease to arrive the
moment war was declared in the Pacific
unless, at that time, Singapore held a
powerfully defended dock capable of taking
ships of the Rodney or Nelson class.
* * © *
More and more, as methods of warfare
change and as nations brace themselves to
face disconcerting new conditions, it be-
comes clear that the day may not be far
distant when the Commonwealth will have
to fend entirely for itself. In the circum-
stances, since oil has not been struck and
since synthetic oil has not arrived as a com-
mercial proposition, it seems advisable to
consider the position from other angles.
Air bases at home might be almost as use-
ful as a naval base in Malaya. With
adequately fuelled and equipped aerodromes
round our coasts a possible enemy would
abandon all thoughts of invasion, and he
would not lightly interfere with our trade
routes—at any rate, in the vicinity of the
Australian coast. It is to be hoped from
every point of view that the Singapore
scheme will stand, and them is no real
evidence of Britain’s disposition to abandon
it altogether in the event either of the
Kellogg Peace pact being signed or of
a Labor Government coming back. At the
same time it is comforting to remember that,
should the worst come to the worst, the
Commonwealth would not be in a hopeless
way. Australia’s remoteness, which makes
the raiding of its shipping easy by modem
sea and air vessels, makes the raiding, much
less the invasion, of its coasts extremely
difficult.
BUILDING AND BOTCHING.
There are foreshadowings about the trend
ol N.S.W.’s Fair Rents legislation. So far
the effort to deal with the house shortage
has been after the style of a Bourbon deal-
ing with disaffection; he didn’t attempt to
remove the cause but he prohibited the
effect with fury. The 700 square miles
known as the Sydney metropolitan area and
surrounding the capital of a mere State car-
ries over 1616 men, women and children
to the mile, beating crowded India’s worst
effort by nearly two to one. But even this,
in an otherwise almost empty province,
doesn’t rouse the rulers to the slightest effort
to create new ports and cities and centres
of population.
* * $* *
Rentable homes ehaneed a while ago to be
somewhat scarce in this well-filled area, and
especially in the centre of it—the five square
miles in which the population amounts to
21,836 per mile—and residence in the suburbs,
where the average over 180 square miles is
only 5016 per mile, involved travelling ex-
penses. The State didn’t risk its money on
any adequate scheme of building lettable
homes. But it enacted that the landlord
should do with much less rent on the aver-
age, and should lose most of his chance of
collecting what rent there nominally was,
if his tenant chose to be obstreperous.
This form of encouragement failed, and the
position grew worse. So a relief measure is
announced, and persistent rumor is to the
effect that the landlord is to be allowed a
net eight per cent, on his investment—a
wasting investment, for houses perish, and
they also become obsolete. It is sug-
gested that he will get eight per cent, not on
the cost of the place, but only on what the
Valuer-General reckons it should have cost.
And the problems of repairs, bad debts and
slumps and consequent emptiness will
remain. In a time of slump and empty
houses the rates pile up just the same. The
English idea, under which the tenant pays
the rates and there are no rates when there
is no tenant, doesn’t prevail here. At
present there are fairly promising stocks
which yield eight per cent., and with no
risk of having to fight the manager for the
dividend and not get it then, and with a
means of prompt realisation in case of
need. And the investor doesn’t have to pay
commission to an agent to collect the divi-
dend.
"
Under the existing law Sydney has
become, for a large class, a stifling and rack-
rented place, where the tenant-shark of a
six-roomed house at 355. per week can
make 60s. per week by sub-letting half his
space to overcrowded sub-tenants. These
pariahs, who are losing their civilisation,
can’t set up for themselves because the
supply of lettable homes within reasonable
distance is inadequate. Nobody supplies
what they want, and even the benevolent
Ministry doesn’t propose to make a new
departure by supplying them under the terms
of its proposed amended Act. Instead, it
offers these small people, through the Savings
Bank, the chance of a decent home and a
big mortgage, provided they can find 10
per cent, of the cost and any necessary ex-
penses, and also find out how to go about
the business. In a multitude of cases they
lack the 10 per cent. So it will leave hun-
dreds of thousands of small wage-earners
still homeless. One thing they are over-
well supplied with in the building line is the
picture theatre; and the accommodation
provided for them there goes on improv-
ing. The rental charges are moreover so
low that these premises attract vast crowds ;
patrons go so often to them that the going
has become a habit with literally millions
of people. The lesson this experience teaches
is plain for any Government to read. There
has been here no “fair-rent” foolishness.
There was an open field, and it has been
kept open; and competition has won for
patrons not only a great choice of picture
houses but the most extravagant pro-
grammes. What reason is there to expect
that the same plan would not produce the
same result in relation to dwelling-houses?
THE DUTCHMAN BEAT US.
Gazing into the marble depths of the
swimming bath on the New Holland, the
11,000-tonner of the Royal Dutch Packet
Co. which has just made her first voyage to
Australia, I thought of my first journey to
Singapore in the Burns-Philp liner Airlie,
1000 tons, with first-saloon cabins over the
screw. The Airlie was regarded as a crack
boat in her day, and • pessimists said that
Australian trade with the Near North had
reached its apex. That was 20 years ago,
and the trade has continued steadily in-
creasing, while line after line has dipped
into the business, too few of them being
Australian. Our own people should have
had that trade in their hands, but the
Navigation Act and the influence of the
pessimists aforesaid have ‘allowed the initi-
ative largely to be taken from us.
History repeats itself in these matters.
When it occupied the Philippines and other
great “colonial possessions,” the Spanish
Crown attempted to establish for its own
merchants an absolute monopoly. Eventu-
ally the commerce with the rich colonies
was narrowed down to one galleon a year,
which sailed to Mexico or foundered on
the way, as its luck was. The grossest
abuses flourished round the loading of this
solitary vessel; everybody, from master to
powder monkey, sold space at an enormous
premium. As soon as the ship got into the
open water half the cargo had usually to
be tipped over. This system persisted well
into the nineteenth century, and when steam
and the industrial era broke down the arti-
ficial barrier the Spaniard had almost for-
gotten what the salt sea smelt like. Things
like this cast long shadows, and to-day the
Spanish flag is a rarity in the ports of any
country.
Our own method was not to waste sym-
pathy on the trader but to lavish it on the
sauor. We tried to create a close monopoly
lor the Australian seaman, who abused his
privileges just as the Castilian merchant
did. The result is that the Australian
mercantile marine is barely holding its own
and the Australian seaman looks as if he
will soon join the dodo.
The Dutchman is intensely realistic. He
went in for the monopoly business himself
for a while, even to the extent of burning
native spice plantations when they sold
their products to the foreigner, and hanging
the foreigner if he caught him. But he has
since got over it. In the last few years,
while the Australian politician has been
pottering around destroying our own trade
with New Guinea and reducing the trade
of Port Darwin to one ship a month, the
Hollander from his flat swamp in the North
Sea has been building up a sturdy mercantile
marine in competition with allcomers For
a long time he has had the bulk of the
East Indian trade in his hands, and he can
now afford to throw us a couple of de-luxe
11,000-tonners.
ff he Dutchman should offer up a prayer
of thanksgiving every night to the Aus-
tralian Navigation Act and its defenders.
NAKHODA.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The State That Can’t Go Dry.
The geography-books give sufficient reasons
why the electors of N. S. Wales should
vote against Prohibition at the referendum
on Saturday. As these volumes put it, N. S.
Wales is bounded on the north by Queens-
land, which produces vast quantities of
rum; on the south by Victoria, which ex-
ports wine, whisky and gin; on the west by
South Australia, famous for its wine and
brandy; and on the east by the Pacific
Ocean, out of which nine million net tons
of shipping enter its ports in an average
year. The State itself has made wine for
upwards of a hundred years, and put many
Diggers on its 15,000 acres of vineyards
as part of its soldier-settlement scheme ;
moieover, in common with its neighbors, it
brews oceans of ale and stout. The in-
gredients of every known variety of liquor,
spirituous or fermented, can be grown in
N. S. Wales, and the climate is of the thirst-
promoting kind.
The three adjoining States are all Wet,
and there is not a thousand-to-one chance
of their going Dry. Victoria rejected no-
license in 214 out of 216 licensing districts
at the last general local-option poll, the
voting being 314,614 to 212,254; and por-
tion of the Dry territory has since recanted.
Queensland defeated prohibition by 239,428
to 136,075, and at subsequent local-option
polls 17 out of 18 districts voting on the
issue of new licenses returned remarkably
large affirmative majorities, while the re-
maining 25 districts declared for continu-
ance. And in South Australia last year
the prohibitionists were routed everywhere,
the voting against them being, roughly, two
to one in Adelaide and three to one in the
country.
So if N. S. Wales decided to go Dry it
would be necessary to patrol 2000 miles of
border and 700 miles of coastline. At pre-
sent there are 3000 State policemen, spread
over an area of 310,372 square miles, and
for the border job there would need to be a
50 p.c. addition at least, while for the other
a fleet of fast craft and an army of coast-
guards and cargo-searchers would have to
be employed. Then the authorities would
have to reckon with the hostility of nearly
one-half the population, resentful of the
cost of the experiment and even more
resentful of the encroachment on their
liberties. The cost would be great, for every-
one in the Trade, down to the humblest
barman and bottle-washer, would have to
be compensated, according to the Act, and
that would mean putting another 25 or 30
millions on to the State debt of 240 millions.
Again there would inevitably be more
Federal taxation to meet the substantial
loss in customs and excise revenue, and
more State taxation to pay for the prohibi-
tion army and navy—the present police
force, small as it is, costs £1,500,000 p.a.
But the moral results would be far worse
than the financial results, injurious as these
would be. The U.S.A. has tried prohibi-
tion for eight years, and has had oppor-
tunities for enforcing it unavailable to
N. S. Wales. The moral results, as sum-
marised last week by the Democratic can-
didate for President, are “bootlegging and
corruption in all parts of the country;
anxiety and worry to mothers and fathers
throughout the land through their child-
ren’s use of liquor in a way unknown be-
fore prohibition; a violation and disregard
of the prohibition laws that are insidiously
sapping respect for all law.”
Is it worth while spending so much and
risking so much more to gain so little?
p
The Tote in Two States.
The Hogan Government is going to make
another attempt to enact the Totalisator
Bill. Since the failure of last year’s effort
to remove the silly Victorian ban on the
machine which the other five States and
Maoriland have had for many years, the
tote has been legalised in Britain, a private
measure supported by the Baldwin Gov-
ernment having had an easy passage through
both Houses. There has also been another
substantial Victorian deficit, and, as deficits
can’t be allowed to become chronic, the
Government will have to get another
£200,000 p.a. or so from income-tax or land-
tax, or both, if it is denied the right to get
it from the totalisator. It is believed that
these facts have penetrated the skulls of
some of the Leg. Councillors who were
among the neighs; and there are two or
three new members who are expected to
take the reasonable view.
If the measure goes through this time it
is to be hoped that the Hogans will give
the tote a fair chance. Over-taxation, re-
striction to one form of machine-betting
and meddling with the method of arriving
at dividends are not giving it a fair chance
in N. S. Wales. On A.J.C. courses there
have lately been two alterations in the dis-
tribution to successful punters, both made
by the Government and both unsatisfactory ;
and the Government extorts nine p.c. from
the pool. With fractions of sixpences and
unclaimed dividends added—the clubs get
three and a half p.c.—the deduction is just
on 14 p.c. The result, as the A.J.C. chair-
man has lately pointed out, is a persistent
slump in receipts, although the starting-price
bookmakers, from whom the Government
gets no revenue and who are highly objec-
tionable in other respects, were never more
prosperous.
The Hogan Government has committed
itself to no particular tax or scheme of
distribution, though certain ideas have been
attributed to it. It would be wise if it
contented itself with four p.c., phis fractions
and unclaimed divs., and let the clubs have
four and a half p.c. conditionally on their
establishing “straightout,” “place” and
“doubles” machines; and the same applies
to the N. S. Wales Government. Moderation
would bring in more revenue in the long
run than short-sighted greed, especially
when the Federal tax on entertainments
and the N.S.W. racecourse-admissions im-
post are considered. But revenue, though
an important consideration, is not all-
important. If people must back horses it is
far better that they should do it on the
racecourse than in the shady haunts of
s.-p. bookies. Many of these harpies would
find their nefarious occupation gone, and
the extinction of the racecourse bookie
would also be hastened, if fairly-taxed
“straightout” and “doubles” totes were
available on V.R.C. and A.J.C. courses.


“THE BULLETIN” LITERARY
COMPETITIONS.
In addition to selecting from the 5 36 eligible entries the three
prizewinners, the judges in The Bulletin s first Literary Competi-
tion drew up two lists of stories whose authors are, they say,
“in our opinion entitled to commendation. The lists follow.
HIGHLY COMMENDED.
(Not in order of mei'it.)
“Merry Christmas”. . by . .
“A Rogue in Amber” ... • • J a<^s ,,
“Disenchantment” Lokohu
“Filimina” “Pandora^
“Bracken” Charlaura^
“Crisis” Jan Darien^
“The Sailor” “‘John Hersogin”
“The Waggon of Birds” t)
“Edro Marney
“Red Hibiscus” . . by . . Maravo
“The Vanishing Horseman” —
“L’lnconnu”
“The Lawless Frontier” . . "Spero
“The Bigamist” “Pioneer’’
“Taipo” “Johnny Wren”
“The Revolutionist” Icarus
“Sell’s Stronghold .... Ray Dale
COMMENDED.
(A r of in order of merit.)
'‘Lucky Maidment" by Good Intent
"He That Hateth His Brother” —
"Francia Hope
“The Mirthful Mutineer”—
"Go Forth Little Book”
"A Wanderer’s Mate” . . . ‘ C.O.S.
“Julian the Apostate” hy “Marcus’’
“Riven" “David Lord”
“Over the Mountain” . . “Carteux
“The Meteren Road”—
"Vernon Thomas’
“He That Endureth” . . “Kanimbla
“Journey’s End’ .... David Lord
Bruce Pasha and Mandarin Page; also
Hughes Effendi.
Vestey Brothers, who sank a pile of money
in the meat trade at Darwm m 1917 and
were frozen out in 1920, have an attorney
who goes up occasionally to see that tne
ruins are still there. His last report is that
there is no productive industry left in those
parts, that the people who buried their
money in that land of isolation have mostly
lost it, and that they stay on because they
are too aged to leave. He adds the old
postscript that it isn t the country tha »
amiss, but the absentee management down
S °Turkish or Chinese methods of petrifica-
tion were never much good, and Bruce
Pasha, his henchman Pearce Bey, and his
accomplice Mandarin Page are poor speci-
mens of the pioneer or voortrekker btili.
Bruce’s predecessor, Hughes Effendi, was
worse. A conspiracy of stodge and retro-
gression keeps the Territory short ot m'-
ways, roads and wells, and discourages ftec-
hold settlement so effectively that only
one-seventh of 1 per cent, of the soil be-
longs to its occupants—if they arc still
there. The population is one human
to 120 sq. miles and one diminishing am-
mal, occasionally a pig, to the mile. Yet
the Territory has .67,000 s. miles moie
land with an annual rainfall of 15m. and
upwards than N. S. Wales, and more than
Victoria, South Aus. or even huge West-
ralia. It has harbors, passable rivers,
mountains which approach a height ol
5000 ft. and minerals. And its narrow-gauge,
unfinished, neglected, dead-end railway
(199 miles) made a loss last year which was
less than that of the Demondrille-Blayney
line (111 miles) in N. S. Wales, and not
nearly half the loss on the West Maitland -
Murwillumbah section in the same State.
The charge against Bruce Pasha and
Mandarin Page is that they leave this great
province a neglected ruin because it is poli-
cally advisable to spend what money is
available where there are votes to be gath-
ered in. And inasmuch as the Territory
was entrusted to the care of the I edera.
Government, the latter’s treatment thereof
is a breach of trust.
A Two-edged Proposal.
The N.S.W. Congress of the Returned
Soldiers’ League recently “enthusiastically
supported” a proposal for the exchange for
short periods of British and Australian regi-
ments. It was claimed that such an ex-
change of visits would promote good feel-
ing between the military forces of both
countries, while it might be made a reward
for good and efficient service.
Superficially, the idea has much to com-
mend it, but there are grave objections.
Not the least of these_ is the veiled but
always existent antagonism between “regu-
lar” and “amateur” soldiers. Another is
the discrepancy of pay. This has proved a
sore point in the Australian Navy, when
the lower-deck ratings of the R.N. have
been in contact with their higher-paid
brethren of the R.A.N., and was one of the
chief reasons for the “deferred-pay” sys-
tem instituted in the Australian service.
It was also evident in South Africa and in
the late war, and must always exist when
one set of men are getting better paid than
another for doing exactly the same work.
Most important of all is the wide differ-
ence in discipline. The regular soldier has,
by the nature of his job, to be submitted
to a much more rigid type of control anri
supervision than his irregular brother, and
the punishments for dereliction of duty
are beyond comparison more severe in
times of peace, and even when active ser-
vice tends to bring the existing difference
to a fairly common level. It is not to be
supposed for a moment that a uniformed
civilian of high standing in Australia would
submit to the methods of the regular
army, or that his fellow countrymen at
home would not sympathise with him in
this particular. We have only to remem-
ber the reversal of British findings in the
case of Colonel Lenehan in the Boer War,
and his reinstatement in full rank by the
Australian Government, to appreciate that
fact. The same spirit made itself evident
in the case of serious offenders in the Great
War, even after the A.I.F. had returned to
the paths of peace.
Just as certainly provision for a special
standard of discipline for the benefit of
Australian troops quartered in England
would arouse the wrath of the Regular and
the people behind him. That would do no
good to either service. Indeed, it would
fan the slight feeling of good-natured
contempt with which Regular and Irregular
always regard each other into a blaze of
mutual antipathy.
Another Battle at Canberra.
A great booze battle is raging at Can-
berra, too. .... ,
There seem to be no prohibitionists in
the Federal Territory. The Temperance
party is merely asking the people to vote
for the continuance of the present system.
Its adherents say the ordinance has worked
successfully, and, if it has not, liquor bars
would be a darned sight worse. They illus-
trate the success of the system by point-
ing out that only four drunks were arrested
in Canberra in the last 12 months. The
license people agree that it was so. But
they add that Canberra’s drunks get drunk
in Queanbeyan. The booze they cannot
drink there is carted home in the family
car and consumed in the home, or in
bedrooms at the hostels. About the only
Canberra men who make a gain from the
system seem to be the bottle merchants,
one of whom recently took 12 tons of
empties away from the capital city’s rubbish
dump!
The third party in the lists is a Public
Control Licensing League, which, making a
last-minute appearance, has painted a rosy
picture of booze profits going to the good
of the community. Renmark is being held
up as an example of what can be done with
a community-controlled hotel.
Anyone may win. The most intriguing
possibility is 'that of N. S. Wales going dry
and Canberra going wet. If that happens
the place will boom, and the Bruce-Pages
will be able to start breweries and float
the city into a limited liability company
that will return enormous dividends.
*
The Folly of Frightfulness.
Judge Curlewis, of N. S. Wales, took the
unusual step, a few days ago, of submitting
to the Full Court a report explaining why
he had handed a sentence of 15 years to a
man who had been convicted of threatening
a woman with a loaded gun:
“With regard to the evilly-disposed section
of the community, I consider it my c|uty to
inspire not only fear, but in the case ol
crimes of violence, terror.”
This policjr would be admirable if it re-
acted only on the evilly-disposed. Unfor-
tunately, it is a well-known fact that those
chiefly affected by it are jurors. There is a
famous English Judge who is a better friend
to the accused in cases of violence than the
most skilful of defenders. He thinks it his
duty to inspire terror by his sentences, and
juries know it. In the “Stella Maris” case-
in which a young husband had killed his
wife’s lover—a provincial jury refused to
convict even of manslaughter, though no
one had the slightest doubt about the tech
nical merits of the Crown case. The jurors
were afraid of what the Judge might do to
the prisoner. They would have been pleased to
see the latter get a moderate sentence, but
right or wrong did not believe he deserved
death, or even a life sentence. The Judge
who earns the reputation of a modern Jef-
fries defeats the ends of justice m all sorts
of directions, besides driving jurors to break
their oaths, and almost the last thing he
does is to diminish crime.
It is not frightfulness on the part of the
Judge that discourages the criminal, but in-
evitability on the part of the law-machme.
America has groaned for a good many years
under the reputation of being the most
crime-ridden of all the civilised counti les,
criminologists say it is because, though the
punishments are terrible when they are in-
flicted, there is always an even-money
chance of the malefactor getting off it he
has money, or, at least, of delaying justice
for years. Britain has less violent ciime in
proportion to population than any nation,
and criminologists say it is because justice
is more sudden than severe. Lynching is
unknown, and so are the horrors of the elec-
tric chair; but not so long ago a murderer
was arrested, tried and hanged inside six
weeks.
+
The fisdismal Dean.
Only Australians who know little about
Dean Inge’s position in English public life
will be perturbed by his diatribes t against
Australia. He is first and foremost a
journalist—one of the best and most highly-
paid journalists in the kingdom. He earns
£l5OO a year by deaning, but at least five
times as much by writing. In the Evening
Standard he is as free to speak his mind as
David Low.
He has admitted that his only trouble,
as a journalist, is an occasional shortage of
subjects. When faced with a difficulty of
this kind he usually attacks somebody—pre-
ferably foreigners, the workers or Austra-
lians. He has written the article about
the dastardly treatment meted out to
Englishmen in Australia, which has just
been taken exception to, at least halt a
dozen times before, on slightly different
lines. “Pommy” is a term that particularly
exasperates him. The truth is he himself
suffers from most of the characteristics of
the type of Englishman to whom Pommy
is applied in an opprobrious sense. He has
a terrific superiority complex. He despises
almost everyone who was not born south
of the Clyde and north of the Channel. He
is tireless in the work of teaching aliens
of every description their business—-ana
more particularly “colonial” aliens— though
he had practically never been outside Eng-
land till he went and lectured the Americans
the other day. He is exactly the type of
Englishman who, if he arrived in Australia
as a migrant with a Board School educa-
tion, would be on his way back home
full of contempt for the Commonwealth
within a year or so.
His London readers, who know all about
him, do not take him seriously as a political
or social guide, though they approve of him
highly as an entertainer. His name only
has to be mentioned on a stage to produce
guffaws. And, anyhow, he is suspected of
being, like Wells and Shaw, a literary
genius. If there is one type that the British
simply will not have as a guide in material
things it is a literary genius.
♦
“Don’t Let Governments Come In.’
“Don’t let Governments come in and run your
marketing for you. That can only end in disaster.
—Priminister Bruce to N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers.
The tendency of Government-run enter-
prises to drop money, and cause loss and
inconvenience to the poor and near-poor
as distinguished from the rich, who can
usually dodge the worst hardships of a
State monopoly—is one of the most out-
standing features of modem civilisation.
According to the just-published report of
the Chamber of Shipping, 35 per cent, of
the Soviet merchant steamers are unfit for
sea-service, and the other 65 per cent, need
extensive repairs. The Canadian Govern-
ment ships lost £1,337,000 last year, and the
Commonwealth line “lost in all £13,000,000,
which has had to be made good by the
Australian taxpayer.” The French Senate
has just approved the disposal of France’s
State-owned ships because the cost of
running them is too great a burden on
the people. And H. C. Hoover, the Presi-
dential nominee of the Republicans, has
said:—
“We shall never have a real or satisfactory
merchant marine until it is owned and main-
tained by private enterprise. The Govern-
ment cannot avoid the interminable diffi-
culties and wastes of bureaucracy, and, above
all, the direct and indirect political pres-
sures.”
Victoria is experiencing political pres-
sures, direct and indirect, in its railways
just now. Chief Commissioner Clapp has
a world-reputation as a railway-man. But
he has aroused enmities amongst employees
who aim at the maximum of remuneration
for the minimum of effort, and they are
traditionally the people who secure and ex-
ploit political “pulls.” The idea, in Vic-
toria as elsewhere, is to make the “pull”
act as a substitute for work. If the Hogans
get Clapp out, it will be hailed as a triumph
for democracy. In fact,, it will be a cal-
amity to the very section which Labor
claims to represent. Politically-controlled
railways, like politically-controlled ships,
coalmines, etc., bring a certain amount of
cash to grafters, and a certain amount of
well-paid leisure to loafers; but they are a
curse to the immense majority of workers
who cannot avoid them by using motor-
cars or who must use them to send their
products to market.
*
Lord Haldane.
Perhaps the greatest monument to the
memory of that many-sided genius the
late Lord Haldane was his creation, as a
civilian Minister for War, of the British
Expeditionary Force —with its General Staff
and Territorial reinforcement the most
efficient thing of its kind seen on active
service up to that time: It was not the
fault of the just-dead statesman that the
weapon kept ready to strike never got the
chance to function most effectively. It is
on record now that the Navy’s inability
to guarantee the safety of Britain from the
landing of an enemy force kept a couple of
the original B.E.F. divisions in the country
for home defence. Had the Expeditionary
Force landed in France in full strength, as
originally intended, the story of the great
German turning movement through France
and Belgium might have been different, and
the subsequent destruction of practically
the entire force, piecemeal, would certainly
have been avoided.
+
What Is “Coursing”?
Premier Bavin, of N. S. Wales, mentioned
the other day that “the legal position of
live-hare coursing would be examined by
officers of the Government immediately. If
it be found that betting at live-hare
coursing meetings is legal, the Government
might consider legislation in order to
remove betting facilities. That might in-
volve the abolition of all coursing through-
out the State.”
The High Court, in its judgment over-
throwing Campbell, J., of N. S. Wales,
established definitely that the tin-hare busi-
ness bore no relation at all to coursing.
In the phrase of Chief Justice Knox, the
“electric hare is the carrot to the donkey.”
Outside Australia the forlorn-hope effort to
identify the tin with the coursed hare has
long, since been abandoned; the pursuit of
the mechanical animal is known frankly
as dog-racing. There seems no reason to
think that the chasing of live hares by
muzzled dogs, which is the device by which
certain N.S.W. sporting organisations hope
to get round the High Court’s decision,
bears any closer resemblance to coursing
than dog-racing does. < Coursing is as old as
literature. Its essentials have always been
clear and the same, namely dog-work and
dog-skill, as opposed to dog-pace. In modern
coursing there are upwards of a dozen points
and only one of them goes to a “kill.” A
“turn” counts four times as many points
as a “kill.” Nevertheless, the possibility
of a “kill” is an integral part of coursing;
and it is clear that by muzzling their dogs
the owners will remove their activities from
the ambit of coursing.
But even if the Courts do not find such a
business is illegal, Parliament should make
it so. And the same applies to genuine
coursing. It has had its day. It belongs,
like cock-fighting and bear-baiting, to a
darker age.
♦
“Two Seas”: “W.M.F.” (B. 18/7/’2B) sees
no harm in any man touring the country
with a “Best Collection of Farm Produce”
made up of samples grown under unnatural
conditions—raised under an umbrella, so to
speak, in a district where it is impossible
to grow most of his exhibits in the open.
Such an exhibit may not do much harm in
the country, but it may mislead city men
who attend a Show seeking information
concerning the capabilities of certain dis-
tricts. Taking them by and large agricul-
tural shows are run mostly for amusement.
But a fair proportion of those who visit
them are there to see what the other fellow
is growing. It is, therefore, up to officials
to insist that all fruit and farm produce
is declared grown under usual farm con-
ditions.
O
“Jobber” explains things:—
The Bulletin (8/8/’2B) noticed the
indignation of Neville Howse when asked
for an independent board of inquiry re
Diggers’ pensions, and the swift subsequent
promise of the Government that such a
board would be appointed. A few weeks
ago, the Katoomba-Leura sub-branch of the
League wrote a polite note to Arthur
Manning ; and the Government whip re-
plied that he would like a talk. One of our
boys had a brain-wave and got Billy Hughes
along too. We had a ding-dong evening—
nearly all re this appeal board. Manning
spoke well and got a splendid hearing. The
“little Digger”—who, by the way, is a patron
of the sub-branch —was as effervescent as
ever, and the night closed with us all good
cobbers. It must be understood that the
sub-branch is strong, and holds sway in Mr.
Manning’s electorate, where he hangs by
a thread, so to speak.
♦
“Huffin-Guffin” : I have just completed
40 years of uncongenial work. Vocational
training was scarcely heard of in my young
days. Many square pegs were placed in
round holes, particularly amongst the com-
mon workers. Now, when I am too old to
start at a congenial occupation, I feel as a
man must who has amassed wealth only
when too old to enjoy it. There are many
such. As one who has “been there,” I
would urge, with all my force, that parents,
as far as possible, should let their boys and
girls have congenial occupations. An ideal
state of society would be one in which all
had the opportunity of following their bent.
Education should be in that direction.


é
Make Full Use of All Power
by harnessing your
machines with
Mangrovite Leather
or Rawhide Belting.
It soon earns its own cost by conserving power and increasing production.
In the manufacture of Mangrovite the natural grain of the leather is carefully
preserved in order to ensure lasting grip and flexibility. Instal Mangrovite
and forget your transmission worries. There is a belt for every drive, and
every one is guaranteed.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
HEINZ
Tomato Ketchup
(Tomato Sauce)
The rich, boiled-down essence
of vine-ripened tomatoes. The
standard Tomato Sauce in
every part of the world. You
will marvel at its goodness.
1373
one of the
57
Varieties
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Public Actuary of South Australia
lately put in his State’s little claim for a
Federal subsidy, and said he regarded
£750,000 per annum a fair thing. Certainly
S.A. can show a good case for assistance,
but tlii s is an even worse time than usual
to ask a Highlander for his pants, and no
time is very good.
An official estimate gives 4,026,300 acres
as the area sown with wheat in Vic. this
season—a record and 737,674 acres above
last year’s figures. Premier Hogan modestly
claims the credit for the increase—it was
due, he says, to his special appeal to wheat-
growers. Wheatgrowers don’t usually wait
for a politician to tell them when to plant;
still, if Hogan arranges good spring rains
and prices overseas as high as last year’s
he can claim anything he likes.
At the end of 1927 five Westralian
Assembly members represented 2422 constitu-
ents, while another five represented 62,008.
Things are very similar in the Legislative
Council, where the Metropolitan men stand
for 7830 voters and the Suburban men for
21,685. The equally-numerous batch who re-
present the Northern Province speak for 638.
In these figures city congestion and failure
to populate the empty spaces bellow at large.
In Darwin there are only two shops re-
maining which are not run by Chinese, and
one of them, which has been white for be-
tween 20 and 30 years, is expected to yel-
low shortly, of this sort should en-
courage the Bruce Government to appoint
another Commissioner or two.
The S.A. Butler
Government has asked
W. A. Webb, the
American-born Chief
Com missioner of
Railways, to stay on
for another three years
when his term is up.
It won’t be up until
November 15, 1929,
but in the ordinary
course of events But-
ler and Co. will be pre-
paring to go to the
country about that
time, and accidents
may happen then, if
not earlier. And there
is an impression in
Adelaide that it was
Webb who showed
them the way to bring
down the price of coal.
W. A. Webb.
Proportional representation, which N. S.
Wales discarded last year, is now threatened
in Tasmania; a proposal for single elec-
torates, with reduction of members, figured
in the Governor’s speech at the opening of
the new Parliament. The absurdly over-
praised system might do for second cham-
bers, but applied to democratic assemblies
it has been a gaudy failure, lessening the
people’s control over their representatives
and giving dangerous power to the inde-
pendent who can’t be depended upon. In
N. S. Wales it lent itself to rank swind-
ling.
“Mr. Marlen” and his Sydney Communist
Club have got into holts with the A.W.U.
The charge was paying a cook £3 per week
instead of the lawful £5 2s. Marx-Len said
that they didn’t pay wages at his place, but
had a division of the takings, and £3 was
all that was available. He was told that
the explanation was too thin. The “elimina-
tion of the capitalist” seems a poverty-
stricken game here as well as in Russia.
They were discussing coalitions at the
annual conference of the Westralian Cocky
party. A delegate from Ewlemartup or
Coughitup or some such district arose and
fixed the chairman with a deliberate eye.
“Mr. Cliairmahn,” he said, “I’m not in
favor of collisions; but if we’ve got to have
a collision let’s collide with the National-
ists.”
When Maoriland’s Coates Ministry intro-
duced its family-endowment scheme—the
thing provides for 2s. a week per child in
excess of two, with a maximum of 6s. per
family—it expected to spend at least
£120,000 p.a. But it reckoned without the
sturdy independence of the national char-
acter. In the last financial year the total
amount paid out was £37,652, and in nearly
every case the family drew the maximum
allowance. The occupations most largely re-
presented in the grants were laborers, 1749;
farmers, 200; and civil servants, 122.
President Coolidge, of the U.S., has
announced that if the Kellogg Arbitration
Pact “had been in force in 1914 there is
every reason to suppose it would have saved
the situation and delivered the world from
the ravages of war.” There were some dozens
of treaties, including the one which provided
for the neutrality of Belgium, existing in
1914, and they were quite as good as the
Kellogg Pact, yet nothing came of them.
Proceeding with his little list of social-
reform measures, Vic. Attorney-General
Attorney -General
Slater.
Slater has launched a
bill for the better pro-
tection of unmarried
mothers and ill-treated
wives and their child-
ren. Jurisdiction is
removed from J’s.P. in
centres of population;
newspaper reports of
affiliation cases are
forbidden; and the
offer of a home is no
longer to be a suffi-
cient defence in main-
tenance cases where
the husband has been
cruel, drunken o r
venereally diseased.
Altogether, it is the
sort of bill that women
applaud and to which
men do not object; but
the militant Labor sec-
tion would rather
see the earnest A.-G.
flagellating the capi-
talist.
In 1924 23,212 N.S.W. coalminers raised
11,618,216 tons of fuel, priced at 16s. 6d.,
and in 1927 24,483 raised 11,126,114 tons,
the price being 17s. 7d. It was after
1924 that the slump, both in inter-State and
foreign exports, set in. The inference that
is drawn from this depends mostly on the
person who draws the inference.
The British War Department has held a
great mock campaign over London, with 300
aircraft, divided pretty equally between
assailants and defenders, by wav of testing
the possibilities. After 15 hours the verdict
was returned that the attackers had been
driven off. It would have been rude to say
anything else. But some disturbing critics
affirm that if the attackers had been armed
with the new gas bombs about which there
is so much rumor, London was lost.
The recent shipping hold-up at Cairns and
Bowen was, at the beginning, based on a
stale grudge left over from the marine
cooks’ strike. It spread till seven vessels
were held up. One ship, which should have
carried away 2000 tons of sugar and meat,
left empty. A dispute at Fremantle arose
because arbitration gave the watersiders 3d.
per hour extra, and they said that arbitra-
tion might betake itself to the nether regions
unless they got 15d. In each case union
officials instructed that work should be re-
sumed, but nothing happens to those who
scorn union officials by not working—the
ferocious penalties are reserved for those
who work too much or who refuse to strike
when ordered.
The expected rush fbr concessions from
tne new Government in China has begun.
Such rushes have occurred before, notably
when the ex-Emperor (now plain Mr. Pu Yi>
decided to convert his empire into a modern
State overnight. For 100 days edicts estab-
lisning universal education, adult suffrage
and the like poured out of the Forbidden
City at the rate of 10 a day. Then the
venerable Dowager Empress returned, put
Fu Yi across her knee and threw a few of
his advisers down a well. The reform move-
ment died a violent death and the con-
cession-hunters disappeared.
The Watersiders’ award lately expired
through effluxion of time, though it might
be said to have died through the Watersiders
taking no notice of it except when it suited
them, so Judge Beeby lmd the job of handing
out a new one. In doing so he complained
of the ‘‘litigious spirit” of the employers
in not offering concessions which weren’t
ordered. He had previously complained that
they had weakly “acquired the habit of
gradually yielding” to unjustifiable demands
in the hope of buying peace and quiet. How-
ever, it doesn’t matter much which of his
wide selection of attitudes liis Honor takes
up, he having been informed pretty unani-
mously that his new award has been put in
the waste-paper basket.
“Texas” Green, Labor M.H.R. for Kal-
goorlie, grinned happily when he heard that
the Bruce-Pages were
too busy or too tired
to bother about redis-
tribution of seats this
year. Kalgoorlie is
10,000 or 11,000 short
of the Westral.ian
quota, and, had redis-
tribution been decided
upon, the shortage
would have been made
up from neighboring
Nat.-Cocky districts,
theie being no others
available, in which
case the Labor major-
ity would have gone
down the wind. Ex-
cept for a little re-
verse in 1921, the
good-tempered “Texas”
has been lucky in poli-
tics, and he has been
equally lucky in the
sandalwood trade.
"Texas” Green.
Vic. Premier Hogan may know something
about railway trucks, but his frequent
speeches on the subject have grown tedious.
It was reserved, for Bob Solly, Chairman of
Committees, while acting as deputy for Spea-
cock, to tel] Hogan that he was making the
House yawn. “We have heard so much
about trucks here lately,” said Solly, “that
we dream about them. The missus asked me
the other morning what I would have for
breakfast. I said ‘Trucks.’ ” It is expected
that Hogan will take the hint.
The melancholy Dean Inge, who has -been
slandering this country again, was rebuked
by a 'Sydney Evening News man, who wrote
to the Standard “pointing out that millions
of acres are available for Englishmen in
Australia,” and that a welcome is always
being kept warm on the hob. It will pro-
bably be all right provided no one asks the
Evening News man why the States have
acquired over 80 millions of debt in
buying back land for settlement and odd-
ments connected therewith, especially when
1,730,000,000 .acres are still Crown property
and bursting with natural resources. In
which case he may have to remark that this
is a land of anomalies, and point to the
kangaroo as evidence.
A deputation from districts about 30 miles
from Melbourne lately called on Minister
Prendergast, with the complaint that week-
end existence is intolerable. The trouble
arises through gangs of motor hoodlums and
car thieves, who camp on anybody’s farm,
destroy crops and fences, shoot holes in
tanks, chase live stock to the back of beyond,
rob beehives, combine drink with bad lan-
guage and threaten extreme violence when
addressed, also at other times. One police-
man trying to cover about 90 square miles
on. an exhausted horse, it was represented, is
quite inadequate. Prendergast promised to
think about the matter. If he doesn’t soon
do something more than think, maddened
farmers will take the law into their own
hands.
There was an extraordinary increase in
depositors’ credit balances at the State Sav-
ings Banks throughout Australia last year.
If the Commonwealth Bank figures are
added, the total of deposits is £213,000,000.
The increase for the year was £10,472,000.
Part is the interest credited to depositors’
accounts; nevertheless, the big figure indi-
cates that a large volume of money has been
diverted from the trading banks to the Sav-
ing Banks at call. Much of the new money
is lent on. tables for 30 years, and the old
danger which brought disaster to the trading
banks in the period 1889-93 has appeared
under a new guise.
If the new Chinese Government can live up
to its bad intentions, and if it adds cffich
ency to its other sins, events are about
to move. Chiang Kai-check (or words to
that effect) launched a gunboat the other
day and announced that his “republic” in-
tended to build a war fleet of 600,000 tons
within 10 years. Latest figures give Italy’s
war tonnage at 110,000 tons of battleships
and cruisers, with the usual sundries. France
has 19<,670 tons, and sundries. In both
cases most of the ships are old. If Chiang
can build his new fleet as per programme
he probably means to kill somebody and
take something with it, Kellogg Pacts not-
withstanding. But possibly the immemorial
somnolence of the land may get him down.
Labor is not keen on losing a by-election
by 10,000 or 12,000 votes on the eve of a
general election, so B. H. Corser, son of the
late member, is to have a walkover in Wide
Lay. Andrew Fisher was M.11.R. for Wide
bay from 1901 to 1915, but the electorate
has been very much altered since his day.
The exclusion of Bundaberg, with a Labor
majonty of 2000, and the addition of the
Biackall Range farming country has made it
as safe an anti-Labor seat as there is in
Queensland.
. The activities of the Mau, the organisa-
rebelli°us natives, have seriously
affected the prosperity of Samoa. Taxes
paid by natives fell off to £2466 in 1927-28:
£1<,849 was the 1926-27 total. There was a
deficit of £17,384 in 1927-28, even after pay-
ment of the Government subsidy of £20,000.
The natives refuse to register births or
deaths; . sanitation regulations are disre-
garded in many villages; copra production
is declining; many thousands of banana-
trees and cocoanut palms have been choked
out by weeds, and the rhinoceros beetle,
worst foe of the Samoan planter, is not
being kept in check. The High Court finds
increasing difficulty in getting native police
to serve its writs. In a preamble to the
new Administrator’s report the Maoriland
Government says that great patience and
tolerance have been shown in the past, but
stronger measures” may have to be used.
One of those happenings which don’t
encourage people to build houses for letting
purposes and reduce the home shortage came
to pass in N.S.W. Full Court last week.
The point was that Coorey made over his
estate, which included the house lie occupied,
to his creditors, who sold the shack to Gazal.
Coorey refused to give up possession, where-
upon a magistrate ordered him to do so.
But three Judges reversed the order on the
ground that though Coorey was in Gazal’s
house there was no evidence that he was
Gazal’s tenant. They didn’t say that he
was an intruder, but only that lie was no
tenant, and they ordered Gazal to pay costs.
At the same time the Court didn’t offer any
evidence that it was really a Full Court,
and it seems a pity to be so strict over one
point yet so lax over another.
Blakeley, M.H.R., no longer pitches into
the Bruce-Pages with a light heart. The
Theodore faction is
trying to push him out
of the deputy-leader-
ship of Federal
Labor; the Sydney
Trades and Labor
Council is attempting
to smash his union,
the A.W.U., by issu
ing what that organi-
sation calls a “scab”
ticket; and, instead
of strengthening the
hands of the moder-
ates, the Federal
A.L.P. executive has
been torpid for two
years. Then Scullin,
Blakeley’s chief, per-
sists in fatuously
asserting that the
Trade-Union Council’s
alliance with the
coolies of the Shang-
hai “Pan-Pacific Sec-
retariat” is utterly
unimportant, though
union after union is
seceding because of its
Blakeley, M.H.R.
Blakeley’s one consolation these unquiet
times is that Darling is a safe seat.
“Sol Malaprop”: I hate to seem a pessi-
mist, but I have an idea that if the Ma
State carries prohibition next Saturday the
High Court will blow the thing out in its
casual old way, and say that the Consti-
tution doesn’t provide for anything of the
sort. What that hesitating document alleges
is this:—
113.—A1l fermented, distilled or other intoxicating
liquids passing into any State or remaining there for
use, consumption, sale or storage shall be subject
to the laws of the State as if such liquids had been
produced in the State.
There are curious points about that ragged
remark. How can intoxicating liquids which
pass into or remain in the State be subject
to the same laws as intoxicating liquids
made in the State if no intoxicating liquids
are made in the. State—not ostensibly anyhow?
And how can they pass into a State and
remain “for use, consumption, sale or stor-
age” so as to bring them within the control
of the law if they aren’t allowed either to
pass, or remain, or be used, or stored, or
consumed? On the wording of the clause
I don’t think the Constitution-makers meant
to authorise prohibition, and I don’t think
they knew any too clearly what they meant
to authorise.
LE MOT JUSTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Theodore fled from State politics to avoid
surrendering to the Queensland Reds and obtained—
obtained seems the right word —the Dailey (N.S.W.)
Federal seat.’’— S. M. Herald.
Time was with flashing eyes and iron jaws
And fluent tongue, and words that burn
and bite,
He smote the enemy and boomed the Cause
And tickled ears and proved himself the
right
Chap to be sent to make the country’s laws,
But here he didn’t tight that sort of fight.
No weapons such as these, howe’er he gained
it,
Got him the Dailey seat —he just obtained it.
To catch constituents lie angled not
With wisdom, wit or statecraft for his bait.
Wrapped in a parcel he secured the lot
Delivered, so to phrase it, at his gate.
They fell like coals into a cellar shot;
They came to him like oysters on a plate.
And whether the transaction, pleased or
pained them
It mattered very little—Jie obtained them.
He stormed no fortress and no square he
broke;
He gained his object without scrap or spar.
Another legislator backed a moke
And gave the books a uevil of a jar.
The world rolled on and Theodore awoke
To find himself a life-size M.H.R
To say he won a Federal seat would strain
one;
But, sure enough, lie managed to obtain one.
N.S.-W.
IFORD.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“J. S. Prentonan” : On the journey from
Katoomba to Jenolan Caves a loquacious
driver described at great length everything
along the road, even going into detail as to
the geological formation. Pointing out the
black patches in the granite at Hampton
he apologised for not being able to explain
their cause. Thereupon Assistant-Super-
intendent Sussmilcli, of the Sydney Techni-
cal College, author of “The Geology of New
South Wales,” who happened to be making
the trip, casually remarked, “They are
basic segregations resulting from magnetic
differentiation.” The driver was silent for
the rest of the journey.
HOW SHE FELT.
THE DREAMER: “You are wonderful! Your lips are rubies, your teeth are pearls, your
eyes are diamonds”
THE DREAM : “Stop it, do—you make me feel like a pawnbroker’s shop-window.”
“Clifford Snook” : One Bulmer Amery who
iately died near Wangaratta (Vic.) left a
moderate £7668, and enough will and testa-
ment for a fortune of millions. In view
of the shortage of in he
directed that the timber on 4<Jo acres is to
be S „1<1 at interval, “a th, *e e*eeo-
tors can agree o » testator's
to be reserved as shade for the testators
A W L d aH?s3ween SSndToO iSScks is
i
A TAfO-0,. Pip land L to sr, to
Biblelodet?, &S
is to let it to a God-fearing person for £25
a year and hang on to it till the second
coming of Christ, after which it seems that
the Society may do what it darned well
pleases. There being 1044 acres of land, the
God-fearing tenant at £25 a year seems to
have a throw-in, even if the poor old society
doesn’t get enough to cover landffax..
“Mulyan”: Tommy Saucepan, an old-time
Richmond River abo., was induced by some
town wags to join the Salv’army. As long
as he was left to stand in the ling and clap
his hands and sing, he was a good brother;
but one night he was told that the time
had come for him to testify. Tommy, after
a little persuasion, grinned widely, spat on
the collection, and began: “One time I bin
very bad feller. Before I bin saved. Glory
Harry-cul-1001-yer! I beat um gin like
hell. Swear all plurry day. Get drunk,
an’ sell um gin to bad white feller get um
t\Vo bob buy rum. An’ one time I take
um ten bob belonga Long Mick”—— You
black cow,” interrupted Long Mick who
happened to be in the audience. “You said
you never touched it!” Tommy fled, and
that was the last the Army saw of him.
* * * *
“0 T.”: His car was new and so was his
wife;’ she knew but little of motoring and
was very timid, so, though he was itching to
“step on it” and show those other fellows
the way, he fotebore, sooner than risk her
emphatic protests. Yet here was a stretch
of beautiful road, and utterly inferior cars,
their horns hooting derision, were passing
him easily. It was intolerable, but suddenly
an inspiration seized him. With a worried
ejaculation he stopped the car and, alight-
ing solemnly investigated the petrol-tank.
“Look here, darling,” he said, apologetically,
as he returned to his seat, “I’m awfully
sorry, but there’s hardly any juice left, and
I’ll simply have to drive like the devil to
get to a garage before the tank runs dry.
“Chevroford”: The drowning of a driver
when his car plunged into the Yarra the
other day recalls a case which occurred at
Blanchetown (S.A.) six years ago. A
farmer, driving hastily on to the punt,
bumped another car into the river, and
followed it himself into 30 feet of water.
The farmer, an active fellow of id, found
himself at the bottom with his motor-coat
inextricably wound round the wheel. lie got
out of the coat, forced his way from under
the hood and swam to the surface. The two
occupants of the other car, both women,
were less fortunate. Theirs was a closed car,
and a closed car, although the air im-
prisoned in it would preserve life for some
time presents a probably insoluble problem
for anybody trying to escape. To open a
door would be impossible, and to unwind a
window would admit an overwhelming tor-
rent. A person of iron nerves might sit
patiently in the dark and let the water
slowly seep in until the pressure inside was
comparatively equal to that outside, when
he might open a door; but I never met any-
body who has done it.
* * * *
“The Wanderer” : One of the most leisurely
and valued trains running in Australia is
the so-called “Tea-and-Sugar” train which
supplies the fettlers on the Trans, line and
other persons living in the sparsely-populated
area between Port Augusta and Kalgoorlie,
not only with the commodities aforesaid,
but also with fresh meat and vegetables. It
travels only during the day time, and takes
six days to do the 1051 miles. The sheep are
killed on the train by the butcher after
leaving Port Augusta, but on the return
journey a supply of meat is taken on board
at Kalgoorlie for a start. Formerly the
train travelled day and night, but owing to
the protests of housewives who objected to
getting up at all sorts of hours for a pound
of chops, night running was discontinued.
Incidentally, the train is of immense ser-
vice to impecunious travellers humping
bluey across this inhospitable stretch,
* * * *
: One interesting thing that hasn’t
ohrmt the. “PLinp- Snn”
Side at Fovant (Wilts.?is that
it was designed by a one-time contributor of
“ F -r> t tt „ Tnhn “p; n ”
Daris “ If ataSbl? he skou’ld be the be P st
authority on the question of .the esaeb
dimensions of his work. He was in the 53rd
Bstt a, the time and held the tank of
“Exdig”: Smith retains its pre-eminence
as far the commonest English surname, but
there are indications that Brown, Jones and
Robinson (B. 22/8/’2B) are in no such un-
challengeable position. Other patronymics
are overhauling them. The frequency of
Clarke (spelt with a final “e” or without)
was impressed on me by the presence of five
of these in the reinforcement unit with which
I left Australia against only four Smiths —
and two of these were bogus, being persons
of slight imagination who, wanting a change
of name, had chosen the first that suggested
itself. A glance over the Sydney Directory
MISSED HER DATE.
“Do you love me, Edna?”
“Love you, Bill! — better’n any man on earth.”
“Have a heart—I ain’t Bill.”
“’Struth, I must be potty. I keep thinking this is Thursday.”
gives these results: Smiths, 50|- cols.;
Browns and Brownes, 34 cols.; Joneses, 24
cols.; Johnsons, Johnstons and Johnstones,
26 cols.; Robinsons, Ilf cols.; Clarks and
Clarkes, 19i cols. The Mac- or Me- or
M'Donalds or Donnells run to 18i cols.
Incidentally, the A.I.F. representatives of
the Clarke clan all became “Nobby,” just as
it was natural to be a “Pedlar” Palmer or
a “Spud” Murphy.
“Master Write”: What a book a
writer like Louis Becke could have
made of the romantic career of that
remarkable woman “Queen Emma,”
round w'hom so many “Island”
stories are woven ! Her relatives
are still to be encountered in New
Guinea, where I recently dined at
the table of her niece. When the
Germans drove in their pegs in
1885 they found a half-American,
half-Samoan family which owned
big plantations in Ralum, New
Britain and elsewhere. Of the two
daughters of this family, which
bore an English name, Emma mar-
ried an American, and the other
married a German. The American’s
wife —Queen Emma —w as the
owner of a big stretch of splendid
country, and her rights were con-
firmed by the Germans. On her.
husband’s death she married a Ger-
man named Ivolbe, but she managed
Ralum herself, and also ran the
store and trading station. Even
as late as 1900 the natives around
Ralum were cannibals, and a man-
eating feast is alleged to have
occurred on the plantation in 1897.
The most fantastic stories are told
of the lady’s hospitality, of which,
I'm told. Australian officers par-
took during the military occupa-
tion. The schooners she sailed,
the islands she owned, the Kanakas
she handled, her matrimonial adven-
tures from Matupi Island to Monte
Carlo —all these things constitute a sort of
saga of Queen Emma which any Islander
will sing you.
♦'♦ ♦ ♦
“T.C.”: A County Court Judge and a jury
of four have unearthed a Joseph in Mel-
bourne —incidentally, he comes from Ireland.
It was a breach-of-promise case. “You
admit,” said the Judge, “having kissed her.
Was that against your will?” “Sure,” said
Joseph, “she asked me. I would be walking
away and she would say, ‘Haven’t you for-
gotten something to-night?’” “Did you on
any occasion kiss her without being asked?”
Joseph thought hard. “Not that I can re-
member.” he assured the Court. “A most
remarkable case,” the Judge told the jury
in his summing up. “As a young man 24
years of age who has lived in the city for
10 or 11 years, he is certainly a most extra-
ordinary figure.” The jury apparently
thought so, too, for they made it £2OO and
costs.
* * * *
“A.G.M.” (London) : Spirited action was
taken by Lady Ellesmere against “crashers”
at her recent*big ball (she ordered a num-
ber of socially-prominent young people who
were at Bridgewater House without invita-
tions to depart), and now the whole country
is humming with the topic. “Crashing”
originated in the U.S.A., and has spread
all over the world. In Melbourne the I rince
of Wales found an exceptionally good danc-
ing partner at a Town Hall ball. W hen
leaving for a later festivity at Toorak he said
that he looked forward to more dances with
her there. The girl said she was not in-
vited. “But I invite you,” answered H.R.H.,
so she went along, only to find that even a
Royal command was not enough to make
her welcome in Toorak. The Prince might
be described as a pioneer of “crashing.” A
few years ago, when he and some friends
were deferentially told it was closing time
at a night club, he suggested that they should
carry on at the late Marquis Curzon’s abode
in Carlton House Terrace. The Marquis
was out, but the butler admitted them and
opened the ballroom. When “George Nath-
aniel” returned and found the impromptu
ball in full swing he was furious, and com-
plained next day to the King, who insisted
upon the Prince apologising for his offence.
* * * *
“Gouger”.; Is there any older road in the
world than the great caravan route from
Egypt into Palestine? The Phoenicians
traded along it, and cut the Amalekites’
throats when they could catch them. David
camped on it and disciplined the Bedouins.
Samson trod it where it branches off into
Gaza. Cleopatra and Antony drove along it;
Joseph and Mary, carrying Christ, walked it.
It was our Desert Mounted Column which
pushed the Turks back along that same
track. The “road” wanders from oasis to
oasis, there being no water elsewhere, and
the wells are from 20 to 40 miles apart.
Our engineers cleaned out and repaired
several reservoirs of stone where the ancient
Romans had stored water. In more modern
times one of Napoleon’s armies left their
bones in the sands around El Arish. They
also left some red-headed kids.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: An abandoned quartz mine-
shaft outside Chiltern (Vic.) was the scene
of a piece of boyish heroism and endurance
the other Sunday. Two youths and a girl de-
scended to the 200-foot level and were climb-
ing up again when the rotten ladders col-
lapsed and all three fell and slid 100 feet
Lindsay McGann (14) was the only young-
ster uninjured; he took his boots off and
essayed the formidable task of climbing up
the perpendicular walls of the shaft bare-
foot. It took him an hour to climb 25
feet, digging footholds with a nickel pencil,
but he got to the top at last, borrowed a
push bike from the nearest house and rode
for help to the township. Some idea of the
difficulties he overcame is given by the fact
that it took almost the entire population of
Chiltern two hours to rescue the others.
McGann was as fresh as a daisy next
morning.
* * * *
“Unity”: Re the library of the famous
Bishop Selwyn (B. 22/8/’2B). Auckland
narrowly missed retaining any of these liter-
ary treasures. An imported prelate who
briefly governed the Auckland see had a
detestation for anything old, and engaged
one of his subordinates to go over the library
shelves and cast out anything that looked
out of date. The subordinate did his work
with great enthusiasm, and the local de-
structor had swallowed numerous and un-
doubtedly valuable tomes, when a synods-
man, awaiting an interview with his lord-
ship, wandered into the library and found
parcelled up on the floor a presentation Life
of Gladstone in several volumes, autographed
by the G.0.M., awaiting transit to the incin-
erator. The uproar he created among the
parish authorities resulted in the remainder
of the library being hastily put back on the
shelves to await a suitable home.
THE GENTEEL GRAFTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Counsel: ‘Did Johnston tell you that Moore was
“Witness (an ex-officer of Sydney Council) : No. We
didn’t mention graft. We were rather sensitive
about it.’ (Laughter.)” —Civic Craft Commission.
However often it was done
The term was never heard;
Persistently we shied at one
Objectionable word.
Whether in office toil immersed,
Or when the tids were quaffed
That slake a chap’s pre-prandial thirst,
We never mentioned graft.
Some nods there may have been that meant
As much, mayhap, as winks
When brows were over tenders bent,
Or elbows crooked for drinks.
A finger in your ribs might poke,
A thigh be slapped abaft
In muffled glee—but no one spoke
Of such a thing as graft.
We talked full often, heart to heart
And soul to naked soul;
Belike on paving blocks we’d : j tart
And finish upon coal.
We’d note who pulled the party strings
When council jobs were staffed,
And other interesting things,
But not a word of graft.
We’d traverse portly aldermen,
Who graced our civic halls;
To bowser pumps we’d turn, and then
Perhaps to artists’ balls.
Prom power-houses yap would veer
To pubs, or pit and shaft,
But none would have endured to hear
A reference to graft.
Days at Our desks strain and sweat,
With figures that might show
Where city needs might best be met
And council contracts go.
But, whether over sums we bent,
Or over tankards chaffed,
By tacit general consent
We never mentioned graft.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Carel : The cottage was up for auction
and from her front verandah Mrs. Next-
door was an interested spectator of proceed-
mgs, in company with her one small son
and about a dozen of his pals (of various
ages, sizes and degrees of grubbiness), whom
he had hospitably invited to watch the fun.
Ilie auctioneer .vas doing his perspiring best,
but the bidding was slow, and there was
much covert muttering along with appre-
hensive glances at the humming swarm of
youngsters who looked like permanent neigli-
bors. Suddenly, seeing a fresh relay of
possible customers approaching, the auc-
tioneer, with an air of desperation, jumped
from, his stand and leaned over the low
dividing fence. _, “Excuse me asking you,
Missus,’ he said, in a hoarse, beseeching
whisper, ‘but would you mind putting about
three-quarters of your kids out of sight for
a while, and give me a chance to get a buyer
for this blinking house?”
* * * *
“Morita”: These arguments about Prohi-
bition set me thinking of the water-bottle of
rum at Flers which was ultimately respon-
sible for a War Office communique that
another German attack had been squashed.
I hat rum had been mislaid by one
of the previous trench holders in his eager-
ness to get out on dry land again, and
was mopped up by four of our mob. The
line was unusually quiet that night, and the
quartette (or what was inside them) pro-
ceeded to notify Fritz that the guerre was
still on. In the darkness four rifles opened
up with rapid fire. The nearest German
machine-gun woke up and let drive. Two of
our guns from supports rattled out their
reply, and a few rifle grenades went over for
luck. Up went the German flares and every
enemy machine-gun opened up to join in
the chorus. Back went our SOS to the
artillery, and the German line was pounded
for quite half an hour. The ' attalion at
DREAMS.
MEG: “Are you thinking of buying anything?”
PEG: “No—not a thing.”
MEG: Oh well, then, let’s go and look at something frightfully expensive.”
stand-to waited for the attack which never
eventuated. Fritz was jumpy that night and
it seemed hours before he settled down to
the usual hush before the dawn.
* * * *
“Bloggs” in praise of walking-sticks:—
I have a theory that the appearance of razor gangs
in Sydney and elsewhere has something to do with
the abandonment of that trusty weapon of defence,
the walking-stick. Save in the hands of an elderly
gent a walking-stick has always been regarded in
Australia as a badge of effeminacy, or at least of
affectation. Yet it can be as formidable, on occasion,
as the sword which preceded it as an essential part
of the out-of-door get-up of males with portable
property to protect. I was assailed unprovokedly
some time ago, and responded with two hits of an
ordinary lightweight walking-stick, the second of
which broke it. My assailant departed, and the
discovery of a good deal of blood in the morning
(the affray occurred near my home at night) led
me to ring up the local police-station and make
inquiries. A policeman, it transpired, had taken the
young man to a doctor and, according to the police-
man’s note-book, the doctor had found “an incised
wound in the top of the head, necessitating three
stitches, and a severed artery in the neck, necessi-
tating five stitches.” I declined to pay a farthing
towards these repairs since, if I had been without
a walking-stick, I would certainly have been a
subject for the doctor myself.
* * * *
*‘K.D.S.”: “Bow legs cannot be straight-
ened in adult years nor in youth.” This
reply, given in the medical column of a
paper, reminds me of a handsome lad of 18
who had become so bow-legged by riding
steeplechasers as to feel ashamed of him-
self at dances. A doctor —no specialist,
but just an old-fashioned bush medico who
had to do everything for everybody best way
he could—told him to walk, day in, day
out. The lad took a job as letter-carrier
and messenger in the local p.o. He walked,
danced and roller-skated, the latter craze
having just then come in. In two years he
had a pair of perfectly straight legs.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: F6r all the harsh
things said about him, Bung is one of the few
people who have to produce moral credentials
in order to qualify them for their job.
An applicant for a license in Bathurst
(N.S.W.) was objected to by the police on
the ground that his wife had obtained a
separation from him and that the evidence
showed he had been caught by detectives
occupying a room in a Sydney hostelry with
another lady. The licensing magistrate, obvi-
ously shocked, intimated that a man who
behaved like that could not possibly be
allowed charge of a beer-pump, and the appli-
cant was told, in effect, that he had no
chance of succeeding until he returned to the
fold of orthodox domesticity.
* * * *
“Sol M.” : A rare case has been instituted
in Victoria, where one lady demands £5OOO
from another for having alienated the affec-
tions of her husband, and likewise carted
that unstable person away. If the second
lady can be ruined in this way and left in
an equivocal position to boot, it seems better
business than rushing into divorce and
allowing her to become an honest and solvent
woman. Plaintiff wisely asks for a Judge
and no jury. Twelve confused amateurs
would make a botch of such a matter to a
certainty.
* * * *
“Country Fed”: “Semper He’s” comment
on the misapplication of the Ten Command-
ments by children of tender years (B.
S/8/’2S) reminds me of a very pompous
inspector who was questioning a class in
grammar. “What is the imperative mood?”
he asked; and received the prompt reply that
it is used to express a command, “yery
good,” said the great man beaming through
his spectacles. “Now can any one give me
an example of the imperative mood?” A
deep silence followed. “Give me a command
then,” suggested the inspector, whereupon a
bright little girl rose and gravely intoned,
“Thou shalt not commit adultery.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: There is a text in the Good Book
to cover everything, even transoceanic
flights in aeroplanes. When Kingsford Smith
starts for Maoriland he will carry a
Bible addressed to the
Governor-General of the
Dominion, from the Aus-
tralian branch of the
British and Foreign Bible
Society. Underlined in it
(Psalm cxxxix, 9-10) will
be: “If I take the wings
of the morning and dwell
in the uttermost parts of
the sea, even there shall
Thy hand lead me.”
“Topee”: “Lucerne Flea” is right in his
assertion that schoolboy superstitions die
hard (B. 15/8/’2B). Shortly after reading
his par. I was asked by a 10-year-old relative
if it was true that a hair inserted in a
schoolmaster’s cane would cause it to split
at the first stroke. I could only tell him of
the non-success of my own youthful experi-
ments in that, direction, although I had re-
ceived the dinkum oil from my own father,
who had probably received it from his.
* ■ * * *
“R. 8.”: The case of the Maoriland bar-
rister (B. 15/8/’2B) is not an isolated one;
more than one student of French literature
and the art of the illustrator is afraid to
awhken sleeping dogs by complaining to the
Customs about undelivered books and prints
Several parcels, registered for me in Paris,
have failed to turn up, but, after one colli-
sion with the heads, I hesitate to make a
fuss. When I asked could I examine, before
it was “destroyed,” an allegedly “obscene”
book I had sought to import (in the English
translation it is unexceptionable), to see
whether th§ illustrations were the trouble I
was told I couldn’t, and invited to consider
myself let off this time with a caution.
Speaking for myself and friends who are
PUSS, PUSS, PUSS!
"What a badly made frock Helen is wearing!”
“Yes, doesn’t it suit her figure perfectly!”
silently putting up with such exasperating
interference (professional dealers in offal de-
serve all they get), I would like to suggest
that we be allowed to glance at any item
of which we are refused possession, and then
to witness its destruction. That would be
treating us less like children, and would give
us _ a confidence in one particular official
which we don’t at present hold.
* * $ £
“Rigalt”: General Blarney, Vic. Police
Commissioner, unable to get any more con-
stables, has decided to hang out a blue
light at police stations, so that they may be
found more, easily. This is a London plan.
Soon after it was adopted I was at the press
table in a. South London court. A man
charged with _ being drunk and incapable
asked the magistrate if he could do anything
to the bobby who “arrested me by false
pretences.” The Beak looked over his
pince-nez and wanted to know what it all
meant. _ The bobby admitted that he had
found difficulty in getting the delinquent to
the station, so asked him if he would have a
drink at the Blue Lamp. The prisoner had
agreed and made quite a scene when he
discovered what the Blue Lamp was.
* * * *
“Q.N.”: A curious situation developed in
the Victorian Supreme Court the other
week when a learned K.C., who had waxed
eloquent on behalf of the defendant, was
confronted with a case argued in 1926 before
himself (as acting-Judge), in which he had
decided against the point he was now rais-
ing on behalf of his client. What was worse
for him, it was found that his decision had
established a precedent which was binding
on the Court before which he was now
arguing.
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide may prob-
ably claim the distinction of
being the first city in Australia
to fine a motor-vehicle for going
too slow. The case certainly
was an extreme one, and calcu-
lated to disturb any street
traffic. A motor-bus —“cutting
out time,” its driver said —
crawled, without passengers, on
a non-stop “run” of 300 yards
along North-terrace, taking (the
police, swore) 10 minutes to do
the distance, or a mere shade
over one m.p.h. The leisureliness cost
£1 10s.
* * * *
“Yetne”: The best definition I remember
or a word popularised by the war was ten-
dered by a Digger to an insatiably curious
Yank. “Well,” he said, “if you saw a
Methodist padre coming out of the Rue de
Galliene picking his teeth, that would be
camouflage.”
* * * *
“Basra” : For sheer bluff the exploits by
the launch Comet and the armed tug Shai-
tan at the capture of the Mesopotamian
town of Amara can seldom have been ex-
celled in the war. After the defeat of the
lurks at Kurna these two little craft
steamed boldly up river, overhauled and de-
stroyed most of the Turkish shipping and
arrived at Amara miles ahead of the land
force. The Shaitan, with a complement of
eight men. sailed past the town, which was
full of Turks, and a few miles upstream
compelled the surrender of six officers and
joO men, all fully armed, the prisoners being
escorted back to Amara under the
of the Shaitan’s 12-pounder. The Comet
arrived a few minutes later, when the Turk-
ish commandant, with six officers and 50
fully-armed men, marched up and surren-
dered to three British sailors who had taken
mooring-lines ashore. As no assistance could
arrive until the following day the British
force of 34 men spent an anxious night, but
the only incident was the surrender of an
additional 400 Turks. Four British seamen
lield the military barracks, two soldiers and
one sailor the naval barracks, and 15 men
kept order in the town.
* =i= * *
. “D-”: For years in Sydney the private-
inquiry agent, anxious to work up a case in
divorce, has made a practice of commandeering
some article of clothing as evidence against
a party caught in flagrante, usually a pair
of trousers. Recently one of these investi-
gators went several steps further, and got
away with a suit of clothes, a watch and
chain, money, and keys belonging to the sus-
pected male, and with the underclothes of
his alleged paramour. Justice Halse Rogers
observed severely:—
, These inquiry agents or private detectives seem to
tmnk that, when they are making inquiries leading
to a divorce, they can commit an offence which is
practically larceny.
But what is the use of complaining that a
thing i s larceny and then doing nothing to
the larcenist? As things are in N. S. Wales,
an unwritten law permits private detectives
to do tilings in the ordinary way of business
that would land any other class of citizen in
gaol.
* * * *
B.S. : I was looking for ferns in a
scrubby gully when a series of awful yowls
disturbed the solitude. Breaking quietly
through a thicket, I beheld a girl about 17,
standing on a flat rock with a picture-pro-
gramme in her hand. From her grimaces and
gesticulations I gathered that the villain
was about to carry her off so that he would
succeed to the family millions, which her
marriage with Lord Ilighanmighty would de-
prive him of. On the ground a few feet
below her were two dazed-looking infants.
Obviously in the nursegirl’s private dream-
land she was a movie star, and her charges
wmre a multitudinous audience.
* * * *
“Jokesmith” : The following is taken from
a speech made by a member of the Austra-
lian Board of Missions quite recently in a
church at Daylesford fVic.)
J' e ars ago in Queensland a man named
otubbs camped with his wife and family. Next
morning he found his wife had been stolen bv the
blacks, and his children killed. He reported the
matter to the authorities, who despatched three
detachments of police, who rounded up about six
hundred (600) blacks, drove them to the scene of
the murder and then shot them all. In addition, to
compensate Stubbs, a law was passed giving him the
power to shoot blacks for 12 months.
Can anybody give the plain truth of the
incident which has been magnified into this
preposterous story?
* * * *
“Te Kooti”: There is special interest in
the recent appointment of a Maori to the
see of Aotearoa (M.L.), since this eccle-
siatic is the first of his race to wear epis-
copal gaiters. Bishops from Africa are
not uncommon, more than one of the Bantu
°f the. West Coast having been raised
to the dignity, while in the unofficial Negro
Episcopal Church of the U.S. they are as
plentiful as generals in a South American
repuMic. _ China has yet to contribute to
the British episcopal bench, and, I fancy,
India also. In any case, the admirably pro-
poitioned Maori race is well calculated to
supply one essential factor in the make-up of
a bishopthe capacity for being able to wear
the official unifbrm without incurring the
risk of being referred to by vulgar urchins
as canary legs,” as frequently happened to
a former Queensland divine when he took
his walks abroad.
THE SUPERCILIOUS DETECTIVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Senior-detective Jones stated that he viewed with
great disfavor the arrival in Melbourne of remnants
of razor gangs from Sydney.”
Society’s vertiginous with criminals indi-
genous,
With cracksmen and with crooks of low
degree.
In Russell-street we’ve got ’em all well listed
r and can spot ’em all.
The local product doesn’t worry me.
The party who regards as his the Baby Aus-
tin or the Liz
Left carelessly unguarded by the kerb
Eventually will, I think, regret his impulse
in the clink.
Such tyros fail my slumbers to disturb.
The shadow-haunting bottle-men who blip
the homing citizen
' Entirely fail to merit my regard:
Yet, though such crimes of peccant youth
must be discouraged by the sleuth,
lliey leave my sensibilities unjarred.
But frowns austerely corrugate my forehead
when I contemplate,
At large, beside the Yarra’s limpid flow,
Remnants of razor-gangs at work, vagrants
from sinful Sydney’s murk.
That’s just a little bit too thick, you
know!
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.’*
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
*2
to
v '(*
a
wm
Open-face “Super Fx & R” Watch in
Silver Case, 84/-
CONSISTENTLY ACCURATE
UNDER ROUGH CONDITIONS
The “Super Fx&R” Watch
We have been importing these watches for
many years now, as being in our experi-
ence the most soundly constructed and
accurate watches made.
They are f-plate levers, jewelled in 1 5
holes. They have brequet over-coil
springs, compensated and adjusted
balance, and combine every modern
horological improvement. They are
guaranteed for fifteen years and kept in
order, breakages excepted, for one year
free of charge.
Fairfax and Roberts, Ltd.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing Tiles
Wunderlich “ Durabestos” Building
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
For Forty Years, Manujacturers of Quality
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
and Roofs
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some September birthdays :
S. Aus. Speaker Geo. Laffer, 62, Kenneth Austin
(Syd.), 46, and G. D. Delprat, 72, on Ist; Prof. Brere-
ton (Syd. Uni.), 57, W. J. Kessell (Dept, of Justice,
N.S.W.), 56, and R. Copland Lethbridge (Syd.),
58, on 2nd; Emeritus Prof. Francis Anderson (Syd.),
70, on 3rd; Brig.-Gen. C. 11. Brand, 55, and
ARCHBISHOP DUHIG, of Brisbane, the
greatest church-builder in Australia,
with a good eye for the best hill. He
has a birthday about the same time as
the Eucharistic Congress assembles in
Sydney—he will be 57.
Arthur W. Jose, 65, on 4th; Melb. barrister A. D.
Ellis, Litt.D., 43, on sth: artist Chas. Nuttall, 56,
on 6th; W. H. Barnes, M.L.A. (Q.), 10, and C. J.
Dennis, 52, on 7th; Q. Attorney-Gen. Mullan, 57,
on Bth; Bishop Wilson (Bunbury), 68, A. B. Pid-
dington (N.S.W. Industrial Commissioner), 66, and
Dr. Baldwin (Vic. Government astronomer), 50, on
9th; Adelaide’s Mayor Lavington Bonython, 53, on
10th; W. A. Jolly (Mayor of Greater Brisbane),
46, on 11th; Gen. Birdvvood, 63, and Yie. Senator
J. F. Guthrie, 56, on 13th; Justice Northmore
(W.A.), 63, on 14th; Lieut.-Col. Hurry (Federal
Member for Bendigo), 60, and Speck’s ex-Premier
Lyons, 49, on 15th; Prof. Walter Murdoch (W.A.
Uni.), 54, and G. A. Gibbs (formerly Melb. Board
of Works), 06, on 17th; Justice McArthur (Vic.),
67, and Federal Labor-leader J. H. Scullin, 52, on
18th; Wm. McPherson (Vic. Opposition leader), 63,
and Major-Gen. Edwin Tivey, 62, on 19th; Prof.
Nicholson (Syd. Uni.), 63, on 20th; Philip Charley, 65,
and Col. Heritage (Duntroon), 51, on 21st; W.A.
Minister Munsie, 58, on 22nd; Major-Gen. Brudenell
White, 52, on 23rd; Bishop Hay (Hobart), 61, and
Sam Hordern, 52, on 24th; Billy Hughes, 64, on
25th; Rev. Dr. Chas. Strong (Melb.j, 84, on 26th;
Chief Justice Murray (S. Aus.), 65, and Josiah
Symon, K.C., 82, on 27th; H. W. Gepp (chairman
of Migration Commission), 51, and Prof. Oxer
(Ormond Coll.), 60, on 28th; Canon Wray (Wan-
garatta), 64, artist Rupert Bunny, 64, Donald Mae-
kinnon (Vic.), 69, on 29th; Brig.-Gen. W. Grant
(Q.), 58, and W.A. Senator Needham, 54, on 30th.
The sixth anniversary of the death of
Henry Lawson is to be commemorated in
Sydney on Sunday by a pilgrimage to his
grave in Waverley cemetery. H. M. Green, of
the Fisher Library, Sydney Uni., will deliver
the oration, and others who will pay oral
tribute are ,T. W. Jacobs (president of the
N.S.W. Public-school Teachers’ Federation),
Steele Rudd, Dora Wilcox and Mrs. A.
Stone. Through this and other similar
commemorations the memory of Lawson is
being built into a symbol for earnest Aus-
tralian literary effort, and that must have
the support of everyone who has more than
a frothy interest in the Commonwealth’s
literature.
The first man of Maori blood to be made
a bishop by the Anglican Church is Rev.
Frederick Augustus Bennett, who carries
the title of Bishop of Aotearoa, the native
name for the Shivery Isles. Bennett is 57,
and is the son of Dr. John Bennett, of Auck-
land, M.L.’s first Registrar-General; his
mother was a chieftainess of high rank
among the Arawa tribes. He is an impres-
sive speaker in both English and Maori,
and, apart from much mission-work, has
found time to edit and manage a Maori
newspapef. The Maoris are forking up the
stipend; various tribes have already guaran-
teed £550 annually for the next five years.
Port Melbourne recently formed a Flying
Club, and its first registered member was
Mrs. M. Goodfellow, who admits to having
been born 77 years ago.
Possibly the most interesting character of
all those who have invaded Sydney for the
Eucharist Congress is Archbishop Redmond,
of Auckland, who is 90, but doesn’t look 70.
He went to the liicketty Isles with his
parents in the pioneering days, when he was
only three years old. His first visit to
Sydney was in the brig Mountain Maid (150
tons) , on his way to Europe to study for the
priesthood. If he had not become a priest
he might have been a musician; he lias his
genuine “Strad” with him on the present
trip.
Lord Lovat, who is on his way to Aus-
tralia to inquire, as Under-Secretary to the
Dominions, into the working of the Empire
Settlement Board, is one of the richest
members of Britain’s extremely rich R.C.
nobility. He owns enormous estates in
Inverness-shire, and belongs to the fairly big
body of peers who give the House of Lords
a good advertisement throughout the coun-
try; he has worked as strenuously as a poor
man all his life. Australians met him with
Lovat’s Scouts (which he raised) both in
S’Africa and, more recently, in Egypt. He
is a Rhodes Fund trustee, a Forestry expert,
an A.D.C. to the King, and many other
things. He is a tall, slim, cheery, free-and-
easy customer, with all the affability of a
travelled Guardsman —he began his soldier-
ing in the “Blues.” He looks 10 years younger
than his 57 years, and is one of the few
surviving wearers of the Ouidaesque mous-
tache.
David Doust, of Chatswood, Sydney, who
will be 92 in October, has just celebrated
the 70th anniversary of his arrival in Aus-
tralia—the celebration was an extra turn
in the garden and half an hour in the work-
shop where he makes knick-knacks for his
friends. Doust brought a wife with him,
and lie worked for wages in days when
wages were small, but he managed to save
£l3, and with that capital set out to become
a farmer in the Clarence River (N.S.W.)
district. A bit later he won a Government
prize of £5O for the best-worked and -man-
aged farm on the North Coast, and when
he retired some years ago he was worth
£12,000.
T. E. Thompson, of W.A,, is responsible
for an invention to make bank tellers burglar-
proof, which he demonstrated before Mel-
bourne police officials the other day. The
device includes a bullet-proof shield, which
shoots up and covers the bank man when he
treads on a lever at his feet. Simultaneously,
a bell rings at the nearest police station, and
a concealed camera takes a portrait of the
thief. The only thing that seams to be
lacking is a mechanical hand which thrusts
out a remission of sentence signed and
stamped by the Attorney-General.
Dr. Gordon Craig, who has just given
Sydney University £lO,OOO, will be remem-
bered by many Diggers of early Gallipoli
days. As C.O. of the hospital ship Karoola,
with the most up-to-date operating theatre
of any British ship afloat, he worked hard
patching up troops on their way back from
Egypt to Australia. Military discipline was
a novelty to him, and when camped in South-
hampton for three weeks, awaiting the fit-
ting up of the Karoola, he ran his unit on
the approved lines of no parades, no picquets,
plenty to eat and leave whenever it was
asked for. Once, as a finishing touch to
crossing-the-line celebrations, he was heaved
into the ship’s tank, clothes and all.
A link with the old Papua which was
British New Guinea snapped at Cairns lately
with the death of David Brodie, who first
went to the territory as a warrant-officer on
the Merrie England in the semi-legendary
days of Sir William Macgregor. Leaving the
service, he went to the Solomons as a con-
tractor, but later returned to the old address
to take up his original trade of boat-builder.
On the death of his only son in the war he
came back to Australia and settled down in
Cairns.
Frederick Campbell, the former owner of
Yarralumla, now the G.-G.’s residence at
Canberra, has passed on; he was living at
The Rev. K.
JULIAN
BICKERSTETH,
fine scholar and
good sport, head of
St. Peter’s College,
Adelaide.
the end upon an
other property at
Narrandera. The
Campbell history in
N.S.W. dates back
to 1796, when
Robert Campbell
arrived as repre-
sentative of a mer-
cantile firm ; later
he became a pro-
sperous merchant
and shipowner on
his own account.
He received grants
at Canberra, in-
cluding Duntroon,
as compensation
for vessels seized to
secure supplies for
the famine-stricken
settlement. Fred-
erick was a grand-
son, born 84 years
ago.
H, Iv. Nock, the new president of the
N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers’ Association,
was one of the men who showed the possi-
bilities of wheat-growing on western lands
that had been regarded as purely sheep
country. A South Australian and originally
a storekeeper, he acquired the Welungloo run,
near Parkes, in 1914. In 1920 the wheat he
grew on that land won the R.A.S. Cup.
One man at least has mentioned the Day
of Judgment in his will. Richard Balmer
Amery, of Boweya (Vic.), ordered that some
of his lands should be kept by his trustees
until the Millennium, and he fixed a date that
means the same thing for the termination of
a trust regarding the rest of his estate.
A memorial tablet has just been placed
in Carlton (Vic.) cemetery over the grave
of John Conway Bourke, who carried the
first overland mails from Melbourne to
the Murray, en route to Sydney, in 1838.
Bourke kept up the service for a year, and
120 of the 200 miles of the journey was
across trackless country whose only inhabi-
tants were wild blacks.
The action in the Scottish Courts between
Lord Inverclyde and his wife foreshadows
the parting, after little more than a year of
married life, of two of the richest young
people in the world. He is worth oyer
two millions, made in the Glasgow shipping
firm of G. and J. Burns, and she was a Salis-
bury. The Sainsbury ham-and-beef shops,
which originated in a small suburban stall
less than half a century ago, now flourish
in .every part of London, and are fast
stretching to the provinces; while Sains-
bury’s sausages enjoy a European reputa-
tion. The row draws attention, inter alia,
to the remarkably democratic nature of the
House of Lords these days. It has been
estimated that 85 per cent, of the peers are
now connected with trade.
Miss Jane Reichenberg has completed
60 years as organist of St. Joseph’s Church,
Hobart, during which period she has manipu-
lated the one instrument. Her father did
the job for 14 years before she took it over.
Miss Reichenberg has not missed a Christmas
service for threescore years, and her first
connection with the choir of her church dates
back 65 years.
In the second ballot of the A.L.P. for
its three at the Senate elections —the first
was declared bogus, or something, through
irregularities that shocked even the A.L.P. —
Donald Grant was just pipped for a place,
only 42 votes separating him from J. B.
Dooley. The first place went easily to
J. P. (Digger) Dunn, more than 2000 ahead
of the old Senatorial hand Arthur Rae. The
result caused the zealous of the Labor fra-
ternity to breathe a sigh of relief —the weight
of Grant’s old association with extreme Reds
was regarded as too much for the Senate
candidates to carry, and likely to jeopar-
dise the Reps, chances, too.
When Mack, K.C., who has been picking
some juicy bones of the legal-fees fowl as
counsel before the Sydney Civic Coal Con-
tracts Commission, was smashed through
his car being hit by a tram, he settled with
the Railway Commissioners for a small
amount “rather than go to the expense of
legal proceedings.” Like any sensible K.C.,
he enjoys the fees-banquets provided by
others; he sees no point in providing any
himself.
Just dead Sir George Trevelyan the
famous author of Macaulay’s “Life,” is
succeeded in the baronetcy by C. I*. Trevel-
yan, who is a Labor M.P. Several other
prominent Labor M’s.P. figure in Debrett in
addition to the brilliant but erratic Oswald
Mosley—the only Laborite, by the way, who
belongs to White’s Club now that Arthur
Bourchier is dead. One of them is Colonel
L’Estrange Malone, a great-grandson of the
Earl of Scarbrough. Malone was recently
elected for Northampton after a hectic
career, which began with wonderful war-
work in the R.N.A.S., and as Air Represen-
tative on the Supreme War Council, and
ended in a sentence of six months, and the
loss of his decorations, for seditious lan-
guage.
Lately dead Lord Haldane had some affilia-
tions with Australia; two of his brothers
spent a considerable portion of their lives
in Queensland. One was in the Civil Ser-
vice, and attained some eminence as Gold
Warden at Charters Towers in the heyday
of that great goldfield, a street bearing his
name still commemorating his reign. The
other brother followed several pursuits in
the North, and a lot of Queenslanders re-
newed their acquaintance with him in South
Africa, where he commanded a troop of
Loch’s Horse and afterwards a detachment
of the Mounted Police at the beginning of
the century.
Dorrigo (N.S.W.) is demanding official
recognition of 14-year-old Douglas Menzies,
a youngster of the breed of Anzacs. A man
leading a horse was jerked off his feet and,
unable to detach himself from the rope,
was dragged up and down a paddock by the
scared animal. Several men tried to stop
the horse, but young Menzies struck the
right idea. Knife in hand, he dashed at the
rope right at the horse’s heels, and hung
on until he had cut it through.
Harry Lawson, ex-Premier of Victoria,
came out of his shell the other night in the
Legislative Assembly, and had a go at the
Hogans on a no-confidence motion. At first
he was heckled by the rank and file of
Labor in a way that the old Parliamen-
tarians would not have dared with leaders of
Lawson’s status; but legislative manners
have deteriorated. Gradually Lawson com-
pelled his opponents to listen to him, and lie
BERNARD HEINZE, Ormond Professor
of Music, who conducts Melbourne Uni-
versity Orchestra, and also sometimes
broadcasts his violin through 3LO. He
is off for a musical holiday to U.S.A.
proved that he is by no means a spent force.
He would be stronger, however, if he let
somebody else run the National Federation
as president. Perhaps he will stand down at
the coming annual conference, so that some-
body else may try his hand at the honorary
and thankless job.
Hartley Williams, a one time Judge
of Vic. Supreme Court, has been drawing a
pension of £l5OO for a quarter of a century.
AT THE POISSON D’OR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“La guerre est long, Messieurs," she said,
and through the window-pane
She saw across the dreary fields into the
driving rain.
The long French night was closing in, our
daytime march was o’er,
And we were seated by the stove inside the
Poisson d’Or.
Within that small estaminet we sat and
drank our wine,
And found a brief forgetfulness of things
done up the line.
The cheerful warmth from Madame’s stove
came like a soft caress,
But Madame at the window-pane found no
forgetfulness.
And glad were we to have that night such
shelter from the wind,
But Madame’s eyes were dimmed with tears
as down she drew the blind,
From her no shutters could obscure, no
blind shut out the scene
Of that red Hell men call Verdun, where
fought her petit Jean.
And round the stove we sat and drank and
many yarns we told,
But all our tales seemed poor and stale,
and all our jokes seemed old.
Our thoughts would wander to a land that
lay ’neath kinder skies
Where others said, “The war is long,” and
watched with anguished eyes.
“La guerre est long, Messieurs," she said, as
on the little town
The wan grey daylight swiftly died and the
long night came down.
And we were silent at thq stove, for vain
were all replies,
No words of ours could take the pain from
Madame’s tear-dimmed eyes.
W.A.
OSCAB WALTERS.


Not Initial Cost—But Cost Per Year of Service!
rrs
_ 8| ISHfO
Do you judge the worth of the belting you buy by
initial cost alone—or by its cost per year of
service? Judged by this latter standard, no greater
value is obtainable than in
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING.
Its first cost is no higher than that of other good belts.
For reliable, efficient, economical power transmission —specify “Pioneer.”
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manvfacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Pln'lp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson fit Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
Tho Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Recognise Your Duty and Appoint a Reliable Executor
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
{The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australia )
412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
is specially qualified to act as your Executor and Trustee.
Its experience of over 50 years is ample assurance that it will manage your affairs to the best
advantage. Unlike an individual the Company is permanent, and its" Capital and Assets are
available for the protection of Clients’ interests.
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H. MacFarland, M.A., LL.D. (Vice-Chairman),
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart, J. Fordyce.
Empowered by Special Acts of Parliament to operate in the States
of New South Wales and Victoria.
CHAS. R. SMIBERT. General Manager V. G. WATSON. Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Gas Light Co.
Dividend To Re- Re-
June, Profits. (All Shares). serves, serves,
£ £ £ £
1918.. 86,627 6 p.c. = 91,800 11,501
1919.. 138,945 8* „ „ 137,210 1,735 13,236
1920.. 155,843 8 „ „ 153,892 1,951 15,187
1921.. 183,978 8 „ „ 170,574 13,404 28,591
1922.. 182,973 8 ~ „ 173,621 9,352 37,943
1923.. 168,721 8 „ „ 195,660 11,004
1924.. 239,804 8 „ ~ 216,921 22,883 33,887
1925.. 232,918 8 „ „ 237,752 29,053
1926.. 259,169 8 „ „ 261,109 27,113
1927.. 291,913 8 „ „ 282,756 9,157 36,270
1928.. 348,362 8 „ ~ 303,316 45,046 81,3.16
It was a. record year. After setting aside
£180,189 for special purposes and depreci-
ation compared with £170,000 in the previ-
ous term, enough of the takings remained to
pay the div. and send £45,046 to reserves.
The number of additional consumers put on
the books was 13,138 as against 8000 in
1927; thus the total was carried to 232,002
at June 30. Early in the term an extra Id.
was tacked on to the price of gas; that
was because coal went up 9d. per ton and
wages 3s. per week in the previous term.
The extra 6d. per ton that was later added
to coal to cover the cost of the N. S. Wales
Government’s child endowment scheme was
removed in November last, and that helped
to lighten the co.’s burden. Recent develop-
ments in the coal industry have resulted in
a further slight reduction in price with
possibilities of yet other cuts in the future,
so from the gas consumers’ point of view
there is more brightness in the picture than
there has been for some time.
Despite competition from electricity, over
the last seven years the number of build-
ings served with gas has increased from
approximately 89 p.c. to 96 p.c. of the total
buildings in the area covered by the co.’s
mains. The increase in the quantity of
gas sold last year was 5.85 p.c. compared
with an increase of 1.37 p.c. in the previous
year, the expansion being most marked in
consumption for industrial purposes. There
the increase over the previous year’s con-
sumption was 25.13 p.c. Increases in
quantity and price swelled the year’s gas
revenue by £134,244; the spring in 1927 was
£129,882.
Here are revenue and expenditure figures:
Revenue — 1922. 1927. 1928.
Gas .. .. £1,518,809 £1,828,148 £1,962,392
Meter rents . . 21,824 25,943 2Gi,874
Residuals . . 129,247 229,273' 239,779
Expenditure —■
Gas manufacture 910,388 978,413 1,003,784
Distribution . . 281,834 386,414 496,472
Public lamps . . 16,460 1,533 1,753
Rent 9, rates and
taxes.. . . 48,758 91,372 113,597
Management . . 37,474 47,075 45,034
Bad debts, law
charges . . 8,399 23,488 30,556
Coke sales were responsible for the leap of
£10,506 in the return from residuals. Tar
sales (£73,369, down £1943 during the year)
were agqin disappointing. However, the
introduction of a spraying plant by the co.
resulted in a marked increase in the demand
for tar from local councils toward the close
of the term. Manufacture and distribution
ate up only 12s. Bd. of each £1 of last year’s
income compared with 13s. and 13s. 6d. in
the two preceding years. Of course, one
looks for a proportionate decrease in over-
head with expanding sales; still the move-
ments are so pronounced that they leave
no doubt about the efficiency of the manage-
ment and the technical staff. Successful
assaults upon costs and increased recoveries
of by-products deserve more encouragement’
than the Legislature has thus far given.
During the year £300,000 of new capital
was got in, and it brought with it £25,774
of share premiums. Thus paid capital was
£8,900,000 and the total premium receipts
£157,196 at June 30. In addition, an extra
£238,790 was tacked on to temporary loans
(£613,936), which are costing the co. only
44 p.c. and 5 p.c. The 73 miles of main
and 62 miles of service pipes laid during
the year called for £117,162 of the new
money, and £275,979 was spent on additional
manufacturing plant. With plant of one
kind and another in at £5,436,463, the call
for depreciation is loud. And the removal
of mains from roadways to footpaths is
eating up a tidy sum, too. Last year £189,936
was spent under those two heads as against
£92,370 in the preceding term. Under the
co.’s Act revenue can be charged with 34
p.c. of the capital outlay on premises and
plant. The next comparison shows what
has been done in this way since 1920 : :
Charged Total at
Against Revenue. Credit of Fund.
1920 .. £60,000 £138,788
1923 . . 100,000 187,792
1924 .. ] 00,000 200,421
1925 .. 105,000 182,158
1926 .. 130,000 216,585
1927 .. 170,000 292,737
1928 .. 180,189 282,990
The new district gasholders and boosting
stations at Alexandria and Canterbury are
expected to be in commission by Christmas.
This will mark the completion of the first
stage of the board’s decentralisation pro-
gramme. The extension of the co.’s mains
to Liverpool and Fairfield is now under way,
and a new tar and sulphate of ammonia
plant is to be installed at Mortlake. All this,
of course, will mean more capital. But since
new shares have to be auctioned, there are
no sweets for shareholders in the shape of
new issues at pa*\ The co. pays a steady
8 p.c., and under the present Act is likely
to go on doing so. The scrip, paid to £6,
commands a ready market at around £7,
the return at that price being 6.9 p.c.
Kandos Cement (N.S.W.).
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 65,332 10 p.c. = 63,363 1,957 64,883
1924.. 109,905 10 ~ ~81,845 28,420 93,302
1925.. 127,829 10 „ ~84,232 43,592 136,894
1926.. 133,246 10 „ ~ 84,232 49,014 185,908
Written off shares in other cos. £25,380.. 160,528
1927.. 138,204 10 p.c. = 84,232 53,972 214,500
Written off shares in other cos. £35,000.. 179,500
1928.. 174,645 10 p.c. = 84,232 90,413 269,913
The chairman’s laconic comment was that
trade was well maintained. Obviously it was
the fattest year the co. has had. Net profit
sprang £36,441, reaching 20.7 p.c. on paid
capital compared with 16.4, 15.8, 15.1, 13.5
and 10.3 p.c. back to 1923. But £35,000
of last year’s trading profit was used to
write down the col.’s holding in the New-
castle Slag Cement Co. to a tangible asset
basis of approximately £lB,OOO. In the
previous year £25,380 was taken to wipe-
out the co.’s interest in Westralian Portland
Cement, which went into voluntary liquida-
tion. At June 30 shares in other cos. had a
book value of £232,240, and that was £54,129
less than the amount at which they figured
two years earlier, so apparently a trifle has
been added to other holdings. Whether the
lot are now worth their book value the
“Wild Cat” does not know. They consist
chiefly of shares in Kandos Collieries. Ltd.,
which does not publish its figures. Its
business was taken over on a share-for-sliare
basis in 1923. Next year there was an in-
crease of approximately 70 pLc. in the net
profit and the book value of shares in other
cos. increased nearly £200,000, reaching
£266,573. But no hint is given as to what
the subsidiaries turn in ; the return largely
depends upon what the cement co. pays the
coal co. for its fuel.
Thus far Kandos and the Commonwealth
Portland Cement Co. have divided a lion’s
share of the business in the cement market
in N. S. Wales. The other big producers,
Sulphide Corp. and Standard Portland Co.,
have a production capacity of only about
one half that of the former two cos. To
meet expanding business and keep pace with
developments in the industry the Kandos
Co. has made constant additions 'to its
cement and quarry plant. The outlay,
which is in the nature of capital expenditure,
has been met out of profits over the past
five years, and, of course, earning power has
reaped the benefit.
But the outlook in the industry is chang-
ing rapidly. The success of the older cos. has
brought a crop of new producers into the
field. Chief amongst them is the Southern
Portland Cement Co., whose immediate aim
is the output of 120,000 tons p.a. Last year
the production of cement in N. S. Wales
totalled 425,808 tons, valued at £1,762,210
an increase of 103,887 tons and £287,688,
respectively over the previous year’s figures.
Even then the output was only about two-
thirds of the total capacity of the four
largest plants then producing in the State.
What effect the new competition will have
upon Kandos remains to be seen. The fact
that the co. has kept its plant up to date,
kept the div. steady at 10 p.c. and put by
£205,030 out of profits over the last five
years after pruning £60,380 of dead wood out
of the accounts suggests that the board is
alive to possibilities.
Here is a comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
1923. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. .. £756,045 £842,328 £842,328
Liabilities .. .. 130,362 99,596 89,179
Freehold, plant, etc. .. 612,015 732,632 742,336
Shares in other cos. . . 266,573 267,200 232 240
Stocks 59,293 77,231 70’,421
Book debts .. .. 66,836 121,438 95,062
Cash 103,477
The improvement in the financial position
last year was marked. After clipping
£10.417 off the amount coming to sundry
creditors, including provision for taxation,
and spending £9704 more than was written
off on plant, etc., £103,447 was put into
public securities and cash. The more or
less liquid surplus (£179,781), including
stocks, but not including shares in other cos.,
was £80,708 stronger than at the previous
balance. Stocks, which are lower than at
any time since 1923. are in at cost. De-
spite substantial additions the book value
of freehold, plant, etc., is £8431 less than
it was two years ago. Provided the co.
keeps its sails trimmed it should be sure of
a place in the race, though what the prize
is likely to be is difficult to say.
Paid capital is in 935,920 £1 shares, and
there is 10s. at call on 187,184 of them. The
market prices the fully paids at 265. After
allowing for the final div. (Is.) the return
at that price is 8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
On the same basis the contribs., which can
be had at 12s. Bd., return 8.3 p.c. The
net tangible backing for each £1 of paid
capital amounts to 265. 5d., of which 17s. Bd.
is represented by freeholds and plant: ss. 6d.,
shares in other cos.; 3s. 3d., surplus liquids,
after paying the final div.
Bennett and Fisher, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 16,224 7 p.c. = 13,910 2314 21,558
1922.. 14,186 5,, „ 11,985 2201 19,357
1923.. 23,399 7* „ „ 17,987 5412 13,945
1924.. 28,768 8 „ „ 19,200 9568 4,377
Reserves.
1925.. 36,737 10 „ „ 27,532 9205 4,828
Added to intangibles, £3830 .. 998
Prefs.,
7* p.c. Ordinaries.
£ £
1926.. 39,777 9,308 8 p.c.=24,000 6,469 7,467
Added to intangibles, £3750 .. 3,717
1927.. 48,803 20,256 8 p.c.=24,000 4,547 8,264
1928.. 54,833 22,500 7„„ 21,000 11,333 19,597
A bigger wool clip in S. Aus. last year
and a rise of about 10 p.c. in prices at
Adelaide sales —the average per bale was
£2l 16s. as against £l9 6s. in the 1926-27
season—meant better earnings for cos. in
the wool-broking and pastoral finance busi-
ness. This co. added £22,774 to the year’s
gross profit (£169,256), but exes. (£114,423)
took £16,744 of the increase and reduced
the net expansion to £6030. After allowing
for the pref. requirements the balance of
the year’s net earnings (£32,333) was 10.7
p.c. on average ord. capital compared with
9.5, 10, 13.3 and 12 p.c. back to 1924.
Nevertheless the div. was reduced from 8
p.c. to 7 p.c., and no harm will be done if
it is kept at that rate for a while. The
£11,333 of the year’s profit that remained
in the business made the visible support for
the £600,000 of paid capital only £19,579
in excess of goodwill, etc. (£28,250). Not-
withstanding the fact that the ords. have
averaged only 7.6 p.c. since the beginning,
the dividend policy has hitherto been more
liberal than it should have been considering
the slenderness of reserves and the possibility
of a break in the semi-boom conditions of
recent years.
The present co. amalgamated the busi-
nesses of Bennett and Fisher and Cheadlc,
Crase and Co. in 1919—goodwill was taken
at £27,000, at which figure it still stands.
Later the management set about expanding
the old connections, and a long run of satis-
factory * seasons helped the work tremen-
dously. Five years ago paid capital was
£239,828. Since then the board has gathered
in £300,000 of pref. and £60,172 of ord.
capital, besides going outside for an extra
£112,554. Most of the money has been used
to finance clients, as this comparison of
balance-sheet figures shows :
1922. 1927. 1928
Paid capital .. .. £239,828 £600,000 £600,000
Liabilities . . . . 225,276 360,090 380,068
Freehold, plant, stock, etc. 65,517 108,102 114,113
Advances . . . . 382,380 876,771 904,429
Cash and investments.. 18,230 18,373
Last year £19,978 was added to the debt;
thus the outside money at risk in the busi-
ness was 12s. 3d. for every £1 owned by
shareholders apart from goodwill. The pro-
portion was 235. Bd. fivq years back.
Advances, etc., up £27,658 during the year,
are in the sheet less an unspecified amount
for bad and doubtful debts and contingencies.
Much depends upon whether the provision
is sufficient. Although times have been pro-
sperous of late, the co. is young, and it is
doubtful whether the board has been able to
build up anything considerable in the way
of inner strength to provide against the lean
years that are inevitable in this class of
business. However, the outlook for the cur-
rent season in S. Aus. is satisfactory, though
the lateness of the winter rains is causing
anxiety.
The A and B prefs—they rank in that
order and there is £150,000 of each —have
priority as to capital and a fixed cumulative
71 p.c. Last year’s net profit was nearly
2 i times their combined annual require-
ments. The market prices the A shares,
which have a net tangible backing of
£4 2s. 7d., around par. For the B shares,
which are covered by net tangibles of
£3 2s. 7d., 19s. Od. is paid; the return at
that figure being 7.7 p.c. The ords., for
which the net tangible backing amounts to
21s. 3d., are priced at 18s. At that figure
they return 7.8 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
The Millaquin Sugar Co.
To
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 65,476 10 p.c. = 50,000 15,476 94,194
1919.. 61,976 8 ~ „ 40,000 21,976 116,170
1920.. 58,564 8 „ „ 40,000 13,564 129,734
1921.. 29,022 8 „ „ 40,000 118,756
1922.. 64,025 8 „ „ 40,000 24,025 142,751
1923.. 71,333 12 „ „ 60,000 11,333 154,114
1924.. 48,249 8 „ „ 40,000 8,249 162,363
1925. . 71,026 12 „ ~ 60,000 11,026 173,389
1926.. 71,656 12 „ „ 60,000 11,656 185,045
1927.. 51,784 10 „ ~ 50,000 1,784 186,829
1928.. 59,849 10 ~ ~ 50,000 9,849 196,678
Last year’s net profit was 11.9 p.c. on the
half-million of paid capital compared with
10.3, 14.3, 14.2, 9.6 and 14.2 p.c. back to
1923. It was surprisingly good considering
that earnings got no benefit at all from the
refinery, which, together with large stocks of
sugar and syrup, was destroyed by fire
shortly after the close of accounts in 1927.
It was hoped that the new plant would be
installed in time to treat part of last year’s
raws, but the work took longer than was
anticipated and the refinery did not set to
again until about the beginning of this
August. Nevertheless, the raw milling plant
netted £8065 more profit than it and the
refinery together netted in the previous term.
The main factor contributing to last year's
very satisfactory result was a heavy crush-
ing. The board does not disclose the tonnage
put through, but for the 12 months the
Fairymead Co., which also operates in the
Bundaberg district, more than doubled the
profit it won in the previous term. And that
despite the fact that the base price for
raws was over £2 10s. per ton less than in
the 1926-27 season, when £24 10s. was
paid. An encouraging feature for the cur-
rent year is that good rains and the mild-
ness of the winter have kept the cane growing
nicely, and the average c.c.s. of present
crusliings is even better than was expected.
The board calls 8 p.c. of each year’s dis-
tribution dividend, and labels the balance
bonus. Call it what you like, over the past
six years shareholders have averaged 10|
p.c. and a comfortable margin has remained
for reserves, which had mounted to £196,678
at June 30. That is to say there was then
7s. lid. visibly assisting each £1 of paid
capital to earn profits. And there are
substantial inner reserves as well. About
a year ago the chairman announced that
plant had been liberally written down for
some years past, and that a revaluation of
assets had shown a large surplus—a state of
affairs that the “Wild Cat” had long sus-
pected to exist.
Last year’s outlay on the new refinery
was chiefly responsible for the growth of
£72,915 in the book value of freehold, plant,
etc. That and other movements are seen
in this comparison of balance-sheet figures:—
1923 1927 1928.
Paid capital .. . . £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Sundry creditors . . 123,475 122,383 78,632
Freeholds, plant, etc... 335,246 327,856 400,771
Plantation, etc. . . 72,512 69,334 68,828
Railways and tramways 48,271 40,173 44,181
Stocks 144,122 26,134 81,773
Book debts .. .. 43,520 18,689 16,536
Investments . . . . 65,374 277,189 197,198
Cash 108,544 79,838
During the year £76,417 more was spent on
fixed assets than was written off. The
more or less liquids (£295,507), including
stock and investments, were drawn upon for
£106,343, and £43,751 was knocked off the
debt (£78,632) ; thus the more or less liquid
surplus (£216,875) was only £62,592 lighter
than at the previous balance, investments
include £29,625 of Government securities, the
balance (£167.573) is labelled “investment
account,” which was drawn upon for £79,991
in the last term. The composition of this
account is not disclosed. Part consists of
shares in the Bundaberg Distillery, but the
probabilities are that a substantial portion
can still be readily realised.
The market, which has one eye upon the
co.’s prospects and the other upon its very
comfortable position, pays 30s. 6d. for the
scrip, or ss. more than it paid two years
ago when a 12 p.c. div. was paid. At the
latest price the return is 6.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney).
Reserves
_ Transferred
June, Profits. Dividends. to Capital. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 27,752 12* p.c. =15,000 66,119
1919.. 26,276 124,. „ 15.000 10,000 67,395
1920.. 33,970 12* „ „ 16,250 20,000 65,115
1921.. 15,310 10 „ ~ 14,989 65 436
1922.. 30,154 10 „ „ 14,995 15,000 65,595
1923.. 40,835 10 „ „ 16,500 15,000 74.930
1924.. 40,923 10 „ ~18,000 20,000 77,853
1925.. 41,180 10 „ „ 20,000 20,000 79,033
1926.. 43,600 10 „ „ 22,000 20,000 80,633
1927.. 54,141 10 „ ~ .24,000 15,000 ( c .
Taxation Reserve, £10,000.. ..( 8o > 7 ‘ 4
1928.. 49,153 10 p.c. = 25,500 20,000 89,427
Another good season sent gross profit
(£160,460)_ up £6527. But’exes. (£111,306)
were. £11,514 heavier, due to (a)a larger
provision for taxation (£15,000 compared
with £lO.OOO in the previous year), and (6)
the previous year’s provision for taxation
not being enough to pay the bill when it
arrived. Thus it came about that the year’s


To Introduce
D
CORK TIPPED
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
iiiiimiimii
PRIZES
IN
PRIZES
mmm
y. S:
m ?
■i
liiiii
m
mm
s*s
'V
A
4!k
vs
mu v
L
A
■K
k^4
?e2
3S*
3»
00®
(3®
»
f
oie
05
P peo
•mein
1
ii
Cv
n
U
H.
J
tt. '
ii
I
You will Enjoy these New Cigarettes
The sum of £lOOO will be divided in prizes in connection with the five Test
Cricket Matches, England versus Australia, to be played between November,
1928, and March, 1929,
In connection with each Test Match prizes will be given for the correCt or nearest
forecast of the result of the match as follows ;
ē
Coupons are placed in each tin or packet of
“ COUNTRY Life ” Cigarettes, and full particulars
of the Competition are printed thereon.
“COUNTRY Life” Cigarettes are sold by
all tobacconists and stores.
COUNTRY LIFE
CORK TIPPED VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
MANUFACTURED IN YOUR OWN COUNTRY BY
w. D. & H. O. WILLS (Australia) LTD,


*<VV7HY have 38,000 Managing Directors and Department
Heads enrolled for the Alexander Hamilton Institute
Course? Aren’t they too busy to read such a Course?”
The answer is that many of these men have never read the
Course through, and never will. The thing which makes the
Institute Course different is just this: you can dip into it at
any point and find immediately a practical method, plan or
idea, worked out and proved by the biggest men in business,
which you can put to work at once.
"Forging Ahead in Business,” which contains full information about the
Alexander Hamilton Institute, is yours for the asking. Send for it.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
II CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY, n.s. w. b 4
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY”
FOR SEPTEMBER.
The Great Australian
Guide to Money-making
No Investor, Trustee or Business
Man can afford to be without it.
SEPTEMBER NUMBER
READY ON FRIDAY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock -4- GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Municipal Loans Negotiated. Geo. E. Dicken-
son, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant, Victoria Buildings,
Swanston Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Walter E. Cameron, 8.A., formerly Deputy Chief
Government Geologist, Queensland, ' late Economic
Mining Geologist, Federated Malay States Govern-
ment. Reports on Possibilities for Oil, etc., avail-
able after August 20. Address: C/o Bank of N. S.
Wales, Roma. — Advt.
* * * *
The non-corroding quality of Pioneer Wood Pipe
gives it a big advantage, for it will safely carry
any kind of fluid without damage to the pipe or
its contents. This factor in conjunction with light
weight and unusual simplicity of installation has
led to the choice of Pioneer Wood Pipe in many
industrial and mining projects. Full information
from the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road (near Fig Tree Bridge), Lane Cove,
N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons]
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castxereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * % *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice ’wrir«
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
r
&
pOORD&SoiV
FINEST DRY GIN
8l OLD TOM
1
DT
-Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney
£34,000,000
THE TRUST FUNDS UNDER THE CONTROL OF
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
EXCEED THIS FIGURE,
Thus Showing the Confidence in which it is held by the Public.
THIS COMPANY OFFERS MANY ADVANTAGES OVER THE
PRIVATE TRUSTEE.
Write for Booklet setting out particulars of its methods and charges.
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Managing Director. H. V. DOtJGLASS, Manager.
net result (£49,153) was £49SS poorer than
the 1927 figure. This was equal to 19.3 p.c.
on average capital compared with 22.5, 19.8,
20.5 and 22.7 p.c., back to 1924, when the
10 p.c. div. called for £7500 less than it
did last year.
For the ninth time in the past decade
bonus scrip is to be handed out. The £20,000
earmarked for that purpose will provide one
gift share for every 12J shares hold at
Sept. 30, and make paid capital £275,000, of
which no less than £220,000 represents gift
issues.
The continuance of annual bonus issues
is governed largely by the earning power of
funds. The £49,153 netted last year was
13.9 p.c. on average funds. The question
is, Can that rate be continued? Can the
profits capitalised each year be employed as
profitably as the old capital? The large
accumulation of funds on fixed deposit —
£200,000 was so placed last year as against
£50,000 in 1923—favors the argument that
they cannot be. However, last year’s profit
was nearly sufficient to pay 10 p.c. on twice
the present capital (£250,000). But it lias
to be remembered that N. S. Wales has
enjoyed an unbroken run of seven satisfactory
seasons, which has meant fat returns to
cos. in the pastoral and produce business;
and good seasons must break sooner or later.
When that happens—well, look at the 1921
figures.
The next table shows the co.’s snug posi-
tion :
1920. 1925. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital. . £130,000 £200,000 £240,000 £255,000
Overdrafts . . 5,912 325,057 179,175
Other liabilities 43,258 34,632 97,705 54,372
Freeholds, etc. 125,092 149,286 148,865 148,618
Advances, etc. 98,943 378,186 155,471 274,606
Liquid assets 50,000 141,250 156,142 202,500
The policy has been not to go deeply into
the pastoral-finance business, though last
year the board borrowed to lend. It went
to its bankers for £179,175 and clipped
£43,333 off the amount coming to trade
creditors (£54,372). On the other hand, an
extra £119,135 was added to the book value
of advances (£274,606) and £46,358 was
placed on fixed deposit (£202,500). The
latter increase suggests that the sudden call
from clients may be only temporary. At
any rate, the position is ’ very comfortable;
including advances the more or less liquid
surplus (£243,559) was £29,651 stronger
than at the previous balance.
The market heavily discounts the future
and pays 50s. for the scrip, equal to 465. sd.
after exercising the rights. The return at the
latter figure is only 4.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. To get a 6 p.c. return the in-
vestor must wait for bonuses aggregating
40 p.c. of his present holding. The backing
amounts to 265. 6d. in net tangibles.
On the heels of the Commonwealth’s suc-
cessful £20,000,000 5j p.c. conversion loan
comes the announcement of a £1,500,000 5J
p.c. par issue, with a 15 years’ currency, by
the Melbourne Metropolitan Board of
Works. Also the State Savings Bank of
Vic. has rushed into the market for a round
million. It is offering p.c. and the issue
price is £99, which shows redemption return
of £5 12s. 6d. on a 10J years’ currency.
Both issues are likely to meet with good
support. The Board of Works loan has
been underwritten by J. B. Were and Son,
and the bank issue by John Goodall and Co.
* * * *
Some interesting details of the Waria
River Gold and Platinum Co. have come to
the “Wild Cat” from P. F. Russell, a pro-
spector of wide experience not only in Papua
and New Guinea but in many other parts
of the world, who has recently returned form
a look over the claims. These are what
were known to old N.G. hands as the Kemp
leases, and are situated some 50 miles up
the Waria, which runs into Iluon Gulf be-
tween Morobe and the Papuan boundary.
The ground is in a series of river terraces
deposited by the fast-flowing Waria, and
Russell estimates it worth Bd. to Is. a yard,
though an old Papuan hand who pegged
some of the same country long ago thinks
4d. would be a safer figure. An ample
head of water is available, and the terraces
are to be washed down with giant nozzles
served by pipe lines. The field manager is
another well-known N.G. identity named Eit-
elbach, and the ground has been systemati-
cally tested under his eye. A hydro-electric
plant is to be installed; and, since there
are several large open grass patches in the
neighborhood, landing-ground for ’planes
will be easily available. This will lessen
most of the transport difficulties in the wild
and rough country, while the Waria itself,
in spite of a rapid current, will also be a
help in this respect. The yardage is immense,
and if values are anything like the co.’s
estimates the profits should be there all right.
The Waria, which was tested from the
Papuan side a generation or more ago,
carries gold through most of its known
length, and the German authorities were
making arrangements for elaborate prospect-
ing when the war broke out. The co. itself
has been capitalised at £500,000, most of the
shares having been taken up in Berlin and
London. For many years the district behind
Morobe has been regarded as a tropical Klon-
dike. The big co. will have a chance of
proving whether the facts justify the pros-
pectors' dreams.
He $ H« $
Morobe Guinea Gold, an Adelaide flota-
tion which some time ago decided to retire
from the gold-mining business in New
Guinea, because, as w*as pathetically
observed, most of the leases it acquired “were
pegged only for purposes of sale,” has now
completed 'the winding-up process, surplus
assets amounting to £350. But hope springs
eternal in directors' breasts. It is proposed
to form a new co. with a capital of £lOO,OOO
in 200,000 10s. shares to take over assets
and liabilities, and acquire other mining in-
terests which have not been pegged for sale
purpose only. The original capital was
£200,000 in 10s. shares, and 330,000 of them
were issued. Shareholders of the old co.
will be allotted one share paid to 6d. for
every two held.
He :J: He He
The Queensland gold statistics for the
seven months ending July 31 show the' influ-
ence of the closing-down of Mount Morgan's
work on mine residues. The State total
was 85680 z., compared with 13,068 for the
same period last year, a decrease of £19,115
in value. One or two of the fields, however,
showed a slight increase for July, the biggest
producer being Mount Coolon, 4250 z., as
against 118 oz. for the same month in the
previous year. Old Gympie, which furnished
a nil return in July, 1927, weighed in this
time with 1420 z., the only other field to reach
the three-figure mark.
Hi ❖ H* *
The Vic. Mines Department has quietly
started to bore for oil on its own account
at Lakes Entrance, about two miles west of
the Lakes Entrance Co.’s No. 2 bore, which
disclosed good prospects at 1200 ft., but had
to be sealed down because of excessive water.
The Government’s boi'e at Ivalimna, Lakes
Entrance, has reached 820 ft. in six weeks,
and it is expected that another 400 ft. will
be necessary before the oil sand found in
No. 2 bore is reached. As there is a suf-
ficient depth of tertiary or sedimentary rocks
in that district suitable for holding oil, there
is a chance of getting both oil and gas pro-
vided the hole is kept free of water. Natural
“wet” gas has been proved to exist from
Lakes Entrance to Sale, a distance of about
60 miles.
* * * *
Perth was loaded up with Freney oil scrip
in the recent market flutter. It banked on
the oily substance sent from the bore being
the best of good things, and bought on a
soaring market. Adelaide supplied all
orders. Then the result of the Government’s
analysis was announced, and, as the sample
submitted was shown to contain only a poor
percentage of motor spirit, prices tumbled and
weak holders shrieked. The board had a
chance to unload some of the co.’s 99,000 re-
serve £1 shares while the market was above
that figure; but, although the extra money
was badly needed, it refused to act while
doubt existed —and is hereby applauded.
* * * *
Collie, Westralia’s only coalfield, now pro-
duces about 50,000 tons a month and its
output is steadily increasing. The largest
tonnage is raised on the Proprietary mine,
which is controlled by a Perth co. and in
which the P. and O. and Orient cos. are
said to have an interest. Unsuccessful
attempts have been made froin time to time
to induce London to take a hand in the
development of the Wilga field, in the same
part of the State as Collie, and which is
said to contain 200,000,000 tons of coal “as
good as Collie” spread over an area of 24
miles. It will be worth something some
day.
❖ ❖ * *
Adelaide has taken the “Wild Cat’s” advice
and pulled out of Mt. Magnet (W.A.). Two
shows were optioned and one was offered in
London for £30,000 and a fifth interest. The
other show was next door, and was said to
have similar prospects. A visiting mining
man found the workings of the first-men-
tioned show to be shallow, the shoot com-
paratively short and ore reserves practi-
cally nil. He could not conceive of either
it or its neighbor being suitable for a co.
Moreover, the graves of the late lamented
Chum and St. George mines were on the
same line of reef, which was ominous.
* * sis
Every now and then a co. or a syndicate
is formed here or in London to make money
out of Pilbara asbestos (W.A.), but never
does. The latest venture is the Australian
and General Asbestos Co., and its holding is
somewhere in the vicinity of Balia Balia,
which is handy to the coast. Some £30,000
-working capital is stated to have been put
up in London. It is to be hoped the people
know the obstacles to be overcome in that
very remote part of the West; they react
tragically on costs.
* * * *
South Kalgurli, Ltd. (W.A.), appears to
be fairly well off. At the close of its year
(March 31) it had, besides plant, equipment,
etc., about 300,000 tons of actual and pro-
bable reserves ranging from GJdwt. to
12|dwt., £103,031 worth of investments,
£11,345 of unrealised bullion and a thousand
or two in cash. Satisfaction was expressed
by the chairman at the recent meeting at the
appearance of the mine, but it was admitted
that, so far, efforts to trace the downward
trend of the main shoots had not proved suc-
cessful in the two bottom levels.
* * =:< *
Great Boulder's results for last year were
much better than for the previous 12 months.
Profit at £23,093 compared with a loss
of £11,019, while ore reserves appreciably
increased. So far this year’s performances
are quite up to last. No div. was men-
tioned in the directors’ report, but chairman
John Waddington stated at the meeting in
London last month that the question of
making a further distribution would be con-
sidered soon.
* • * * *
Rawang has issued further details of its
activities up to March 31. The net profit of
£57,512 aiftl the distribution of £48,000 in
dividends has already been announced. The
average dredge recovery was .571 b. per yard
treated, and costs 4.97 d., in contrast to the
previous year's figures of 1.031 b. per yard
and 4.6 d. The sluicing plant recovered
1.041 b. per c.y. and costs were 7.48 d., equi-
valent figures for the preceding year being
1.061 b. and 7.08 d. Rawang’s capital is
£240,000, and there is an amortisation and
depreciation reserve, of £50,000, a general
reserve of the same amount, and a dividend
equalisation reserve of £48,000. The mine
was flooded from November to January and
unable to produce during that period. Flood
expenses amounted to £5846. Additional
areas were leased during the year, one at
Sungei Bakau, containing 8J million cubic
yards, bored to average §lb. t.o. to the yard.
The other is in the Serendah Valley, where
the boring of 180 acres shows 8,000,000 c.y.
going about fib. of t.o. This area adjoins
the Rawang leases on the north, and has a
soft bottom and good dredging conditions.
A further area near Sungei Bakau is also
held under option. The new power plant
at Rawang will be able to supply current
to Rawang Concessions and the two Seren-
dahs. The F.M.S. railway authorities have
agreed to deviate the Rawang Valley line
to enable the co. to work the railway and
road reserves. When this is done flood
waters can be controlled and the rich lime-
stone bottom areas worked by gravel pump-
ing, leaving the dredges to look after the
soft-bottom lower-grade ground. Close bor-
ing of this additional area discloses 15,000,000
yards estimated to contain from If to If
pounds per yard, and 7,000,000 yards of lime-
stone bottom ground going fib, per yard.
Both these areas will be worked by gravel
pumping, the latter section, which has been
partially worked by the dredges, being re-
treated.
The new ground to be treated by bucket
dredging includes 18 million yards in the
Rawang Valley, estimated to contain from
two-thirds to one-half pound t.o. per yard;
in the Serendah Valley, the eight million
yards referred to above and a further
5,000,000 yards, which has been scout bored.
At Sungei Bakau there are 24,750,000 yards
going fib., and another 10,000,000 yards
scout bored. Sungei Bakau is to have a
dredge to dig to 55ft., with a capacity of
150,000 yards per month, and modern aux-
iliary equipment. Including the Rawang
dredge, the three plants are expected to
treat 350,000 yards per month and win not
less than 100 tons. With tin at £2lO an
annual net profit of £BO,OOO is anticipated.
Rawang’s 63,800 shares in Rawang Con-
cessions are expected to turn in a div. within
the next 12 months.
The scheme is ambitious, and also likely
to prove expensive. The item of railway
deviation alone would be a snorter. Some
four miles of line is likely to be affected,
and much of this is carried on a tremendous
embankment, necessary because of the flooded
condition of the valley during the monsoon
season. Presumably this dead ground would
have to be removed by the dredges and piled
up again on the line of deviation to carry
the rails.
* * * *
After long and vexatious delays Ratrut
Basin has begun digging on its new Sichon
property. The plant at work is the co.’s No.
1 dredge from Renong, and the second
dredge, a large Sydney-built Diesel-electric
plant, should be ready to set in by the end
of this year. The directors have denied a
rumor that the dredge has been troubled by
boulders —no difficulty at all is being experi-
enced. The Sichon area, nearly all virgin
ground, was divided into three sections,
which bored 28, 16 and 12 oz. respectively.
Last week No. 1 dredge, which began
stripping the over-burden at the begin-
ning of the month, had reached bottom
over one-third of the face, and had just com-
menced tin recoveries. In 48 dredging hours
1200 cubic yards had been turned over for
If tons of t.o. This small parcel averages
about 2.81 b. to the yard, and if the rate is
maintained in large yardages Ratrut’s rosiest
hopes are in a fair way of being realised.
Paid capital is £280.000 in £1 shares, which
have an active market at 28s. 9d.
Ilaad Yai and Huey Yot continue with
small turnovers, though both have been long
enough at work to be able to open out to
dredge capacity, unless digging difficulties
are presenting themselves. Huey Yot dug
27,000 yards for 10.7 tons of t. 0., or a little
under .891 b. per yard, for the first fort-
night in August. For July, the average tin
content of 40,G00 yards was .971 b. Ilaad
Yai turned over 15,700 yards for 10.5 tons
of t.o. The average was 1.501 b. compared
with 1.381 b. from 39,100 yards in July.
* * * *
Burma Malay, which has Katu and Re-
nong getting ready to dig, has secured a
free option over two rubber estates in the
Ivinta Valley, for six months, on tributing
terms. Presumably the co. is going after
the tin contents, though this is not stated.
More than one Malayan tin co., however,
has run rubber plantations as a side-line.
* * * *
Kramat, floated by Alluvial Tin in 1926
with a capital of £150,000, of which £130,000
has been issued, is running late in the matter
of producing. This is chiefly due to the fact
that the directors first ordered a big steam
dredge and then decided to have it converted
to electric power. The plant, which is to
have a digging capacity of 180,000 yards per
month, was timed to begin running this
month, but no news of a start has come.
The property contains about 50,000,000 yards
of dredging material, estimated by Malcolm
Newman to average fib. The £1 f.p. shares
were at 225. 6d., buyers, at the week end.


CONCERNING THE RIGHTS OF THE MAJORITY.
THE BENCH: “As you are well aware, the last referendum decided that, whether people like it or not, they must drink whisky. You refuse to do it, and talk some nonsense about the liberty of the su bjec t.
You are ordered to make up arrears before you are discharged,"


r
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors; Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), WM. TILLEY (Deputy Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN, ALEX. KING and Dr. C. A. THELANDER
Total Assets exceed £2,000,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
Tn ihe event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
' ' the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
... In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eveiy contingency.
1 NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Seeretary. GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's Grand Opera
Royal “The Silent House”
Criterion “Other Men’s Wives”
Palace “The Luck of the Navy”
Empire “Mother Macree” and “Models”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Regent Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “Hit the Deck”
Royal “The Patsy”
New Comedy “The High Road”
Athenaeum “White Collars”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
♦
The tuneful “II Trovatore” was produced
by one of the grand operators’ best casts at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on Saturday, when
the bursts of applause, particularly thunder-
ous after the* “Home to Our Mountains”
item and the “Anvil Chorus,” emphasised
again the popularity of the familiar. In a
mountain fastness, gorgeously portrayed by
the scenic artists, Giuseppina Zinefti setout as
Azueena to make the night her day, so to
speak. The gipsy was passionately dra-
matic, and made a fine finish in “Ai nostri
monti.” Arangi Lombardi was a Leonora
full of temperamental expression, Francesco
Merli a distinguished Manrico, and, as
usual, Apollo Granforte (the Count diLuna)
gave polish and force to his share of the
proceedings. Antonia Fugazzola batoned an
orchestra which, on a couple of occasions,
yielded to a tendency to unnecessary stri-
dency ; but the chorus made no errors. Fer-
nando Autori sang the “Abbietta Zingara”
magnificently, and gave Ferrando, the Cap-
tain of the Guard, his full significance.
:Ji >Jc sfc H*
The season, which finishes at the end of
next week, revealed a new jewel in “The
Tales of Hoffmann” on Monday; it was
billed for a welcome back to Toti dal Monte
after her honeymooning. On Saturday
“L’Amore Dei Tre Re,” which Melbourne re-
ports mention as the apex of the company’s
achievements, is to make its appearance.
* * *
Schiller’s “The Robbers,” a classic rarely
staged in English-speaking countries, is the
initial feature of Alfred Gordon Kalmikoff’s
season at the Newtown Majestic. The pro-
ducer had to rely upon amateurs, but it is
BERYL BARRACLOUGH, who at 24 hours’ notice stepped into
the lead in “Sonia of the Circus,” at Sydney Grand Opera
House, and made a hit.
a remarkably well-drilled production in which
the vigor of the action compensates for the
lengthiness of the speeches. As actor,
Kalmikoff was less successful, his por-
trayal of the hypocritical brother, Francis,
being somewhat lacking in subtlety; father
Maximilian must have _ been blind as well
as senile for the villainy of the envious
schemer to escape him. The other brother,
Charles, is an open-hearted, adventurous
youth; disowned through the intrigues of
Francis, he becomes the leader of a band
of outlaws with a belief that he can right
the wrongs of himself and others by direct
action; in the welter of gore that flows in
the final act he realises that violence can
only pile wrong upon w’rong, and he com-
pletes the tragedy by surrendering himself to
a poverty-stricken cobbler to whom the
reward offered for his capture will be a
godsend. Two casts were billed for the
production, to play on alternate nights, but,
like Kalmikoff, John Gould, wdio is a spirited
Charles, is in both outfits. Despite difficul-
ties in regard to staging, the costuming was
very adequate, and the effects included a
horse ridden on to the stage by Charles and
a rescued brigand, and a woodland fight
where one might easily forget that the
shooting was the w’ork of “hungers” and
other fireworks.
* * *
Percy Hutchison and his companions,
whose season at Sydney Palace finishes on
Friday, deserve better houses; a return sea-
son, when there is no counter-attraction in
grand opera, should be more 'successful.
For the last week the company staged “The
Luck of the Navy,” a compote of gallant
sailormen, patriotic sentiments and soulless
German spies. It is a robust play that
would have gone well a few years ago, but
now that people are trying to forget that
Germans are as bad as they were featured in
war-time, it proved less satisfying fare than
some of the other products of the company.
The Lieut. Stanton, V.C., of Percy Hutchi-
son is a breezy person with a somewhat
fat-headed way of talking about his secret
commissions (no connection with the muni-
cipal kind) which makes the luck of the
Navy very needful in his case. Frances Dil-
lon is the outrageous lady who is a leader
in the spy business, Townshend Whitling a
choleric admiral with a grievance at being
shelved at 70, and Victor Watts-Weston a
somewhat bumptious but likeable midship-
man. The others displayed their virtue or
villainy in workmanlike fashion if with no
marked distinction.
* * *
Gregan McMahon, with his players, will
bring “Dear Brutus” to Sydney Palace
Theatre on Saturday; the same night
the Grand Opera House will see a revival of
“The Rosary.” Maurice Moscovitch is still
drawing fat rents from “The Silent House” ;
and polished comedy continues at the Cri-
terion, where Margaret Bannerman is pre-
senting “Other Men’s Wives.” The Fullers
are thanking their
lucky star (Gladys
Moncrieff in this
case) for the suc-
cess of “Rio Rita,”
which early next
week will register
its 150th perform-
ance without any
sign of growing
leg-weary. The
Empire is making
a success of its
blend of pictures
and musical revue,
“Mother Machree”
and “Models.”
Duncan Macdou-
gall and his players
will squeeze the
huge city of “Chi-
cago” into the tiny
Playbox to-night.
The uncommercial
venture has shown
that it can deliver
first - class goods,
and this satire on
American justice
should give a fine
opportunity for an-
other success.
Alfred O’Shea is
to give three reci-
tals at the Sydney
Town Hall the
first on Friday.
William Heughan,
the Scottish bass-
baritone, will be at
the same address
in the middle of
September.
¥ * *
The versatile
Joe Termini
is in the star-
shine at the Sydney Tivoli, from which the
Ingenues will be regretfully farewelled to-
night. Termini is a musical humorist who
is on joking terms with almost any instru-
ment, and the great heart of the public has
opened wide to take him in.
# ¥ *
First half vaudeville, second revue, is the
old order upon which Fullers’ Theatre (Syd-
ney) has fallen back. In the first section
Kamo the illusionist gives expertly-worked
tricks with a stream of good patter, and
Huley and Bent give an impression of what
happens in a modern cramped flat to those
people who are fortunate enough not to know
it already. “Mixed Doubles” is the season-
able title of the new “revue.” It shows
Harry Gould, as Hiram Pickerbrush, to
particular advantage. -
y ¥ ¥
The picture version of “The Student
Prince,” which was the musical version of
“Old Heidelberg,” is full of artistically-
worked back-
grounds, and has a
story unmutilafied
for film purposes;
but there is rather
an overdose of
kisses in it. This
is the Sydney
Prince Edward’s
new offering;
there are two note-
worthy “supporting
features,” one a
photo-color repre-
sentation of Sir
Walter Raleigh’s
dealing with
Queen Bess, shown
plainly as a red-
headed shrew, and
the other a study
of the life and love
affairs of the
domestic cat. The
Regent turns from
the gay Mary Pick-
ford film “My Best
Girl” to “Four
Sons” on Friday
night; Hoyt’s has
a story of remark-
able s p eed in
“Wyoming,” and a
hint or so about
how much a
woman can spend
on clothes when
she • is really in
earnest in “The
Satin Woman,”
where the widow
of Wallace Reid,
using his name for
screen purposes, is
the lady who sells
her soul (if she
has such a thing)
for glad rags. It
is the first intru-
sion of the adver-
tised “Mrs.” into
screen work. The Capitol is offering a cup-
ful of passion in “Three Sinners” ; one of
the captions credits Pola with a re-
mark about “the altar of illicit love,” what-
ever that means.
* H- *
“The Girl in the Limousine,” now parked
at Melb. Princess, may have been written
in the late Avery Hopwood’s second child-
hood, if he had one. It is certainly not up
to the standard of the Yankee writer’s
dramatic prime. The interest, or lack of
interest, potters round the impossible cir-
cumstance of two wayfarers (Felix St. H.
Jellicoe and William Strong) finding a dam- 1
aged motorist (Claude Carter) on the road,
stripping him naked and stuffing him under
Zillali Bateman’s bed. The lady tries
hard, in her arch-comedic manner, to excite
interest in her terrible situation, and she
has for lover a somewhat improved Desmond
McMinn. But the harder these and the
other performers bang the Hopwood drum
the duller it sounds. Even the competent
Miss Cottell as an extraneous aunt fails to
knock any sparks out of it—if you can
knock sparks out of a drum.
%■ * ¥
In his final concerts at Melbourne Audi-
torium, Moiseiwitscli continued to demon-
strate his mastery over the small sizes in
musical goods, though Bach’s “Prelude in
C major, played at one of his shows, was
perfectly done. Scarlatti’s “Pastorale e
Capriccio” was charmingly delicate and cool.
His Chopin was always exquisitely phrased,
except for the Polonaise in A flat major,
which was disappointing, but not more so than
his execution of the “Moonlight” sonata,
whose rays were altogether lacking in power.
Not so the “Little White Donkey” of Ibert,
which was full of kicking hooves; or “Sug-
gestions Diaboliques” (Prokofieff) which por-
trayed his Satanic Majesty in evening dress.
* * *
Most of the artists being “direct from
U.5.A.,” much of Melbourne Tivoli’s cur-
rent flow of wit is being delivered through
the nose. Conlin and Glass are two excel-
lent burlesquers, and Cromwell Knox is a
humorist of address. ,
* * *
To-night ('Wednesday) John Brownlee
will begin a series of three concerts at Mel-
bourne Town Hall, assisted by soprano
Elena Danieli and pianist William James.
On Saturday Muriel Starr will stage “The
Donovan Affair” at the King’s, and on the
same night at the Comedy “The Notorious
Mrs. Ebbsmith” will be ousted by “Belinda,
much to the relief of all true Vanbrugh-
pliiles.
* ¥ *
Most of the amateur performance of
“Hamlet” at Melbourne Playhouse last week
was a calamity, the prompter being the
hardest-worked person in the outfit; but
Izobel Duncan, as the male star, was re-
markably effective. Her face, figure and
demeanor were more satisfyingly romantic
than those of many masculine Princes of
PEARL APPLETON, as the Dream Daughter of “Dear
Brutus,” with the Professional Repertory Players, at the
Sydney Palace.
Denmark one has known, and her solilo-
quising was verbal music.
* * *
Comedy is paramount at Hoyt’s Mel-
bourne home where “Wife Savers” and
“Don’t Marry” are drawing the crowds. At
the Majestic “The Silver Slave” is a deco-
rative sermon on the evils of marrying for
splosh.
The battles of Coronel and Falkland
Islands are being fought twice daily on
Melb. Auditorium’s screen. On Saturday
some ,of the audience showed poor sports-
manship by booing the doomed squadron of
Von Spee. The British Admiralty’s recon-
struction of the two encounters is a fine,
dignified performance, and clever condensa-
tion dramatises the battles, which were actu-
ally very prolonged affairs. On technical
details The Bulletin had the expert
opinion of three liberty men from Flinders
Naval Base, who asserted that the picture
was the dinkum thing.
* * *
Adelaide Royal is contentedly marking-
time with a variety show, and it
proves effective in a city where good stuff
of the kind is rare. Honors so far are
divided between Smithley’s lions and the
clever juggling in the Kelso turn. Chester
Conklin is on two screens, at the Wonder-
graph with Fields and one “Tillie,” who is
Louise Fazenda, and at the York, where
also Reginald Denny is dashing and funny.
The Regent has a strong bill, with Buster
Keaton comical and Ivor Novello thrilling;
and the Pav. demands loud sobs with
“Mother Machree’s” troubles.
“Schnorrer”: Helene Esserman, who is
cabled as having made a hit at her debut at
the Opera Comique in“Cavalleria Rusticana,”
passed her childhood in a secondhand shop in
Batliurst-street, Sydney. Melba declared that
she had a voice that ought to have its
chance, and within a month a committee of
Sydney Jew’s had arranged to provide the
girl’s expenses and an income for her sup-
port in Europe for three years. That proved
insufficient; but, fortunately for the young
vocalist, Sam Cohen (eldest son of George
Judah, one of Sydney’s wealthy) happened
to be in England, and made arrangements
for the extra money needed and the help of
prominent Jewish music masters. Helene’s
success is something, therefore, in which
more than her own family have an interest.


STONEWALL
SHOES for MEN
STONEWALL RIDING BOOT.
B Black Leather, Light
Sewn Soles, Re-inforced Elastic,
18u
Heavy Box Hide, 21 /*
Postage 1/-. Interstate 1/8.
JACKSON'S L?
STONEWALL' STORES
Cnr Pitt 6 Goulburn Sydney
Write Desk B for Catalogue.
"Such, a reputation is not won overnight”
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d 20 for 1/6
Tltafar Drapkin <& Co.. lonian. Branch of The United
.A AAAAAAAAA
Kingdom Tobacco Co.. LtdL ,
7©
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“Sea Nomad” : In the old days the Torres
Strait natives preserved the skulls of their
parents as well as those of their foes. The
skull of a man’s father was the best divining
instrument he knew, except the skull of a
priest, and priests’ skulls were too expen-
sive for the proletariat. Captain Banner
was the first man to buy a Torres Strait
skull. A Tutu man offered him the skull
of his mother for four tomahawks, and he
bought, though a stick of tobacco would have
been nearer the market value. D’Albertis,
the Italian naturalist, was very keen on
skulls, and nosed out bargains from Cape
Yoi'k to New Guinea. He got a gi’eat haul
at Mawatta, then an important native trad-
ing centre. These trophies were smoke-dried
—some raddled red and others with cheeks
and noses filled in with wax and painted
to resemble life. Others had tufts of hair
glued to the pate. The Germans were also
keen skull hunters and got away with some
fine specimens. But they were not popular
with the natives. They fixed their own
prices.
* * * *
“Cooramin”: Dummy swags are not un-
common on the track, but they are sometimes
misunderstood. A big, powerful man one
day applied for a job at a Riverina home-
stead. When he dropped his swag it bounced
lightly and Woolbale, picking it up, dis-
covered that the bundle was merely an arm-
ful of grass rolled in a single blanket. “A
lazy sundowner!” Woolbale muttered; but
he was wrong. That wanderer happened to
be stiff and s\yagless; and no traveller likes
to be on the road without a bluey of ordi-
nary dimensions. A man may “swamp his
cheque” and “jump his horses over the
bar, but he can't part with his bundle with-
out losing his self-respect. One I met on a
Queensland stock route, on getting a job with
a drover, threw his swag down the bank of
a gully, saying that he would not want
the thing any more. It was an empty oil-
drum rolled in a piece of wool sheet, which
he had carried more than a hundred miles
after losing his proper equipment in a
Hooded creek. “A man looks like a black-
feller without a swag,” was his explanation.
* * si? H*
“Black Tracker”: For years spur-winged
plover and I were bad friends, for they had
many times spoilt my sport. Then an inci-
dent brought about a change. I winged one
of a pair, but instead of flying off the .other
boldly attacked and held my retriever at
bay. When I approached it went for me,
finally settling down by its wounded mate.
I ended the misery of both, and vowed that
never again would I pull a trigger on a
plover..
* * *
“W.R.”: Whether or not the inner bark
of an ironbark-tree is a cure for barbed-
wire cuts, I can assure “Steve” (B. 8/8/’2B)
that to alleviate the pain of a burn there is
nothing better in Bushland. It is, however,
a firm belief with many bush people that
the sap from any gum-tree in a wound causes
blood poisoning.
A SIGNAL HONOR.
SEBASTIAN B. : “ Draw near, laddie. I shall give you the opportunity of telling your
children in years to come that you once bought a drink for the great actor
Sebastian Bloggs.”
“Catalyst”: The exhibition recorded by
“Boomerang” (B. l/8/’2B) was certainly
unique. Another little drink or two and
“Boomerang” would have seen his juvenile
abo. throw two Tangs from each foot and
catch them on their return in his teeth.
There are four kinds of boomerangs: return,
fighting, ornamental (for barter only) and
hook. Most of the fighting boomerangs can
ANTICIPATION.
“The sausages are sizzling in the pan,
Tails and eyes are urging me to haste.
As the luscious skins are cracking
I can hear the lips a-smacking —
All the animals are waiting for a taste.
QUEENSLAND.
“The poor are always with us and to spare,
The millionaire has plenty and to waste;
Make the millionaire and greedy
Divvy with the poor and needy,
Then everyone will get a little taste.”
ASHTON MURPHY.
be thrown so as to return, but make one
revolution only; the return ’rang proper
makes three or four. The hook boomerang
has a hook three or four inches long at right-
angles to the concave edge of the weapon ; it
is used for fighting and also for throwing
into flocks of birds. Ambidextrous abos.
are unknown. I have seen throwers from
all over Australia; the best was a hand-
some and powerful Kalkadoon from the
Leichhardt-Selwyn (Q.) district. He could
not speak English, and his stern dark eyes
looked contemptuous as I handed him a re-
turn boomerang and signified to him to throw
it. The boomerang travelled fast and high,
made four fast revolutions and was caught
smartly by its thrower, who passed it to
me and then walked majestically away to his
camp-fire. <•
* * * *
“Slushlight”: Because “Kell B.’s” experts
at the Sydney Sheep Show shore fewer than
100 a day (B. 25/7/’2B) it doesn’t follow
that 300 can’t be shorn in eight hours. The
big tallies are generally put up half-way
through the shearing on ewes and lambs ; by
that time the shearers have their hands well
in. Though 300-a-day men are a rarity, 200-
or-over chaps are common m western N S.
Wales and Q land. The Sydney men had
lots of reasons for not doing big tallies,
Among others they had the wrong kind of
sheep, had not worked long enough to be
at their top. and were handicapped by cold
weather, with the yoke down in the wool.
* * * *
“Up North”: A tough old abo. hunts a
crust in the wild mountain country at the
head of the Pascoe River (N.Q.). He
abducted a bright-eyed young gin, whose
lover 12 months later put a spear through
the kidnapper’s knee. The wound never
healed, and for two years remained in a
septic condition. Though abos. generally have
great faith in the white man’s medicine, this
sufferer resolutely refused aid proffered by
wandering prospectors The leg gradually
shrivelled and eventually the lower part was
dangling looseiy, held by half-dried sinews.
It became such a nuisance that the old chap
decided to twist it off. It was a slow process,
but eventually the limb came oil, and I saw
him poke it calmly m the ashes of Ins fire.
Out of a wild cork-tree he made a wooden
leg, and the old fellow is now again an ex-
pert pedestrian. But he has fashioned for
himself a leg far superior to the first rough
makeshift.
* _. ~ _ ... , . ,
“Bad Australian”: I am inclined to think
that the periodic howls about the alleged
impending extinction of the platypus are
emitted by folk who have never met him out-
side a zoo or a museum. The platypus is a
very shy animal • he is rarely seen except
just after daylight, between sundown and
dark, and occasionally in close, cloudy, thun-
dery weather, and then only by persons who
know where and how to look for him. lie
keeps a remarkably sharp lookout as be
paddles about on the surface of the water,
or roosts just awash on a submerged log on
the alert to dive at the slightest indication
of danger. He has no natural enemies ex-
ceupt the big cod and possibly the water-
rat, but these as a rule are found only in
the deeper and more sluggish waters. I have
seen the platypus in Tasmania, and shot him
in Victoria and N. S. Wales and in Queens-
land as far north as the Burnett. The
curious animal is not confined to the
deep and sluggish streams, as many suppose,
I have frequently seen him in shallow moun-
tain streams, on one occasion at more than
4000 feet above sea-level. With -his wide
(and high) distribution, his comparative
freedom from natural enemies, and his ex-
treme wariness I should say that he will
be among the last of our native animals to
become extinct.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: While mooching along the stock
route in drizzling rain we noticed two
curious objects on a sandy hillock that
invited inspection. They were sheets of bark,
lying side by side, in the same rounded form
as they had had on the tree. As we
looked into one of the tubes, a grinning black
f ace peered out and said: “Good day; you
got urn little bit ’bacca?” The occupant was
a travelling Binghi, who had stripped the
primitive shelter for himself the previous
evening, and reckoned it was “too much rain
yet” to get up and resume his journey. In
t he other tube was Mrs. Binghi, who pro-
tested loudly when her bed-chamber was
playfully rolled over. “Go • ’way,” she
screeched, “an’ leave mine plurry ’ouse
alone.”
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: Re abo. counting (B.
25/7/’2B), the Central Aus. tribes counted
thus: anynda, one; utrama, two; oorapi-
jama, three; utrama-’trama, four; a hand
held up to show all the fingers extended,
five; a hand and the word anynda, six;
and so on up to two hands, 10. Any number
beyond that was a mob.
* * * *
« The Rumpus ». “ Nota Rene’s” opinion
(B 2 5/7/’2B) that a horse’s intelligence is
limited to what it learns by memory and
habit is not acceptable to me. A Perth milk-
man’s P rad had been taught to move off at
a s h ar p trot to the next stopping-place
a ft e r hearing the second bang of the gate.
one mo rning before daylight the milkie came
flying out of a customer’s gate and tripped
ovor a half-brick. He sprained an ankle
and broke a wristbone with the fall. His
well-trained neddy moved off and came to a
standstill two blocks away. About two
minutes he waited, then swung round and
eame back to the house where he had last
heard a gate bang. That wasn’t habit,
( Continued on page 21.)
THE COBBER YOU'D FORGOTTEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the road is long and lonely, and the
tucker-bag is light,
And there’s every indication it will be a
dirty night;
When the sky is not more gloomy than your
present prospects are;
When you’ve found the game is rotten, and
you’re wondering, llow far?
There is nothing cheers a fellow when he’s
felt misfortune’s fist
Like the bread from off the waters that he
cast and never missed.
There’s a cobber you befriended on a happier
day than this,
There’s a quid you gave at parting that you
said you’d never miss.
You’ve forgotten, all about it, and you meet
him on the track,
And—it has been known to happen—he
would like to pay it back.
Oh! of all the dinkum fellows none are higher
on the list
Than the cobber you’d forgotten with the
quid you never missed.
You were drunk and you were happy when
you handed out the quid,
And you loved him like a brother —or at
least he says you did.
And he never has forgotten how you helped
him on his way,
And he always has been hoping that we’d
meet again some day.
Oh! a man can’t drop his bundle while
such dinkum blokes exist
As the cobber you’d forgotten with the quid
you never missed.
When your grip is growing feeble, and your
bundle’s getting low,
When the track is hard and stony, and your
step is weak and slow;
When the chaps you used to drink with are
now drinking on their own,
That’s the right time to remember that you
are not quite alone.
Somewhere on the roads that wander, some-
where on the tracks that twist,
There’s a cobber you’ve forgotten with a
quid you’ve never missed.
w.a.
OSCAR WALTERS.


Victory Six
1
3
3
A Six Well Named
An Engineering Victory
Drive Dodge Brothers Victory Six and you will experi-
ence steering ease such as you have never known before
in the Victory’s price class.
You will encounter acceleration and speed wholly unex-
pected yet readily understood when you consider that
the Victory has more power per pound of weight than
any car of comparable price.
You will be amazed by the Victory’s riding comfort over
rough roads at a speed that would be impossible for
most cars.
You will be astonished at the absence of sidesway when
you turn a corner swiftly.
And the Victory fuel economy sets new standards for
six-cylinder engines of equal power.
Ride for thirty minutes in this new Dodge Brothers Six
and you will agree that it is well named. You, too, will
proclaim it the greatest engineering victory in many years
of motor car history.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Harden & Johnston, Limited, Sydney
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville
'Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auclcland, N.Z.
Amuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, N.Z.
Cossens and Blade, Ltd. .. Dunedin, N.Z.
P. H. Vickery, Ltd. .. Invercargill, N.Z.
?v ewton King, Ltd. .. New Plymouth, N.Z.
Magnus Motors, Ltd. .. Wellington, N.Z.
DoDBe Erdthbrs
MOTOR. CARS
29/8/*2B.


PEAPES
Clothe mm AND their sons.
QUALITY - VALUE
SERVICE
The unusual thoroughness of the
service Peapes provide for men
and their sons is admirably exem-
plified in their department for
Shirts and Pyjamas to Measure.
There one may obtain materials
of character, in design and color-
ings not to be seen elsewhere,
while every personal preference
is embodied in garments of smart-
ness and comfort.
George Strefet,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
IVttnons Wotel
Lhp con fee of
Queens!an ds
DistinPuished
Social Life.
ŗ
Brisbane
Magnificent Ballroom, Palm
Court, and Lounges at the
disposal of guests and their
friends at all times.
ř
Suites de Luxe—double and single Bedrooms, with Bath-
rooms attached. Hot and cold running water and Electric
Fans in every Bedroom, together- with every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
TELEGRAMS & CABLES — LENNONS , BRISBANE.
telephone cent. 5780 (10 lines).
The
Stock
Owner
%
£
X.
who consigns Cattle, Calves, Pigs, Sheep
or Lambs to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
for sale takes a step which safeguards his interests
to the utmost, assuring him top values for his con-
signments and thorough care for his business in
every particular.
Rail or Ship Stock to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD.,
SALESMEN,
Homebush Yards, or Enoggera Yards,
Sydney. Brisbane.
“Soda” : “AdeL.’s” rabbits, which have “at
last arrived at the upper-reaches of the Gulf
of Carpentaria” (B. 8/8/’2B), must be swift
movers, because when I rode through 700
miles of Gulf country 13 months ago there
wasn’t a rabbit to be found north of Capri-
corn. My itinerary extended from Croydon,
through Normanton and Burketown, to Wool-
agarang in the Territory; from Woolagarang
south along the border for 60 miles; then
west into Queensland to Punjaub; from
Punjaub south to Lawnliill and Herbertvale,
back into the Territory again; out to Gal-
lipoli and back across the border again at
Camooweal. Not a rabbit did I see. I
asked niggers all over the country if they
had ever seen a rabbit. They hadn’t, and
didn’t know what I was driving at when I
described the furry-feller alia same puss-
cat. “AdeL.” ought to know that time after
time attempts to raise sheep in the Gulf
country have failed on account of the wet
season". If a jumbuck is too small to live
six months of the year in three feet of luke-
warm water, what chance has a one-hand-
high bunny?
* * He *
“Runa”: Some time ago it was noticed
that blowflies in hundreds were settling on
the large pipes which have been sunk in the
Rotorua Gardens (M.L.) to take off some
of the sulphurous steam that accumulates
underground. On investigation it was found
that the malodorous fumes attracted the
pest —visitors to Rotorua always become
panicky on first acquaintance with the smell,
thinking the sanitation at fault —and the
flies, overcome by the fumes, dropped into
the pipes and perished. These accidental
fly-traps were removed, and yielded quarts
of dead flies. As Rotorua sulphurous mud
can be transported, smell and all, the possi-
bility of another thermal industry is sug-
gested.
* * * *
“Huffin-Guffin”: Busli-fires in very heavy
forest country nearly always make two bites
of it (B. l/8/’2B). In Gippsland I have
seen a fire roar through the tops of the
trees in windy weather, a terrifying sight
and sound. The burning bark and leaves
drop, and then the ground debris is burnt in
comparatively leisurely fashion. > There is
little or no wind on the ground in heavily-
timbered country. Even in grass a fire will
leap over the top in the wind and burn more
slowly below. A fire is perhaps the only
thing that travels faster up a hill than
down it. To try to stop a blaze on a hill-
side with the wind blowing up the hill is
a heart-breaking job; in heavy grass country
it is practically impossible.
*** * •
“Arthur R.”: Jim Fletcher, near Benalla
(Vic.), had a lamb born with two heads
and five legs. He at once severed a leg and
one of the heads and stitched up the wounds.
At the time of writing, a week later, the
freak is still alive and frisky.
THE RIGHT BREED AT LAST.
WORST HALF (reading from payer): “It says
here, my dear, that hens in the United
States lay 700 eggs a second.”
BETTER HALF: “Good heavens, John! We simply must get one of those birds. You
know how you love omelets.”
“Murilla”: “Limpy” (B. 25/7/’2B) in his
disquisition on gates in out-back Queensland
overlooked the “run through.” The most
popular type appears to be an S-shaped alley-
way constructed of corrugated iron, which
is supposed to be stock-proof. Another type
is a bridge built of'saplings placed horizon-
tally in the ground at intervals of about
6in. Whether the average beast is so simply
gulled I’m not in a position to say; all I
THE DEEP END.
NOVELIST (getting material to win The Bulletin’s £500 Prize Story) : “I suppose you
have had many adventures and narrow escapes in your seafaring life?”
SAILOR: “No, nothin’ to speak of. Ye see, I don’t go roving ashore like most fo’c’s’le
’ands. I plays safe and sticks ter the ship.”
know is that these contrivances are a boon
to the traveller on such routes as the Roma-
Surat road, the 60 miles of which, until
recently, were interspersed with almost a
like number of gates.
* * # *
“Quandmeme”: Outside Nairne (S.A.) a
felled gum lies across a stream, by way of
bridge. The limbs are doing a root-and-
branch service; underneath they have struck
into the earth, and above they are in full
leaf.
* :!: *
“Cooramin”: Abo. women take part in
cattle-mustering and -branding in the Kim-
berley (W.A.), and up till a few years ago
they were employed in the same capacity
on some runs in the south-west
parts of Queensland. When I
first met the stock gin I was
doubtful whether it was an ordi-
nary bloke who wanted his hair
cut or a colored poet, till I saw
the mystery drop the reins on
the horse’s neck to do up her
back hair. Cattle were rounded
up on a drafting camp, and
stockmen were cutting out
fats. The latter were gathered
up and held a little distance
from the main mob by two
mounted gins. Two more gins
were at the side of the main
mob, to keep them from break-
ing away. All used men’s
saddles, were dressed like men
(minus boots) and rode astride;
but only one sported a hat, and
carried that in her mouth most of the time.
They were certainly attractive as they raced
about, shouting and laughing, in big trousers
and striped shirts, their long hair tumbling
about their shoulders.
* * * #
“Bad Australian”: The Murray cod as a
rule will, bite at anything from a wood-grub
to a dead ’possum, bqt there are exceptions.
When a lagoon on the Broken River flats
(Vic.) was pumped out a few years ago some
of the cod were seen during the progress of
the work, but they refused to bite at the
most tempting bait. When the job was
finished cod of sizes up to 701 b. were found,
some of them snugly nested in hollow logs,
while others had burrowed into the mud, in
one case to a depth of about 2ft. If size is
any criterion some of these fish must have
been of great age. The lagoon had been
regularly fished for many years.
■ * * * *
“Yacko”: Some of the early explorers
were driven to replenish their larder with
our native greens. Kennledy’s ill-starred
party tasted the fruit of the pandanus, and
wished they hadn’t. Captain Edwards and
his shipwrecked crew ate the astringent
plum found growing on Little Adolphus
Island. Bligh and his followers regaled
themselves on dolichos beans, and felt sorry
for themselves. McDouall Stuart enjoyed
his dessert of wi Id currants. Blaxland,
Wentworth and Lawson had the bottle-
shaped flower of the honeysuckle on their
menu; and the Jardine brothers liked the
wild grapes. Favenc finished his dinner
with pigweed and bluebush. Burke and
Wills sustained life towards their tragic
ending with nardoo seed; and Riche the
naturalist of the D’Entrecasteaux expedi-
tion, when lost for three days, was glad to
eat the berries of the wild clematis.
* « '# *
“A.J.Mc.”: Tell “L.N.” (B. 25/7/’2B)
that the deepest bare-diving was done at
Murray Island by a Torres Strait boy. He
cleared a ketch’s anchor in 13 fathoms, and
considered it just part of the day’s work. But
that was years ago. Now that the bSche-de-
mer boats use a heavy lead with a barb
through it and a long line attached for spear-
ing beche-de-mer in anything over five
fathoms, the boys are not trained, for deep
diving.
* * * *
“A.H.8.”: The Maori’s musical ability
and exact sense of time and rhythm are
hereditary possessions. Communal singing,
in the fields by day and in the wharepuni
at night, was a general feature of old Maori
life. Most Maoris, and certainly all of any
rank, can compose songs or sing yards of
them from memory. All their dances, from
the frenzied halca of the massed fighting
men to the graceful swinging poi of the
women, were done to exact time'and gen-
erally with vocal accompaniment. Perhaps
the perfection of the combined talent was
seen in the kai-tulds of the war canoes.
These men, always chiefs or tohimgas, gave
the time to the paddlers and kept their
spirits at a high pitch. Prancing along the
narrow board in the centre of the canoe,
they marked the stroke by words, exclama-
tions or snatches of song, all delivered in
perfect time, with appropriate gestures. The
largest canoes had two of these fuglemen.
DAIRYIN’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve done all kinds o’ yakker fer me crust
and me terbacker,
From shiftin’ ’eavy timber to ridin’ stump-
jump ploughs,
An’ I know of nothin’ tougher fer the
jackeroo an’ duffer
Than the yardin’ an’ the milkin’ o’ flamin’
dairy cows.
Oh, it’s risin’ bright an’ early, w’en the frost
is w’ite and pearly,
An’ you’re freezin’ cold as mutton —still
yer know you’ve gotter go
An’ do a bloomin’ shiver through the grass
an’ down the river
Chasin’ Daisy, Spot an’ Dolly, an’ Straw-
berry and Flo.
Before the sun is blinkin’ the thirsty pails
are drinkin’
The cow-juice by the gallon, an’ yer ’ands
are keepin’ time
As the streamin’ milk keeps flowin’ —an’ yer
’ave to keep on goin’
While yer icy feet are planted in the
muck an’ in the slime.
An’ the sun keeps climbin’ ’igher, an’ you’re
tliinkin’ of a fire;
But there’s still, another twenty, so yer
bail another up,
An’ yer find ’er tough as leather, an’ yer
’ead is 'like a feather,
An’ w’en yer finish with ’er you’re pantin’
like a pup.
Then the nex’ hour seems eternal, an’ you’re
wishin’ the infernal
Milkers that are waitin’ for yer to the
deepest depths of ’Ell;
But there’s one thing keep’s yer workin’
though yer ’ands and ’eart are
shirkin’,
If yer didn’t do the yakker—well, there’d
be no cream to sell.
Now yer weary ’ead is ’ummin’,, an’ yer
curse the dronin’, drummin’
Of the ’eavy separator as the milk comes
splashin’ through,
An’ it doesn’t cheer yer any to think that
there are many
’Oo wouldn’t ’ave their butter if there
wasn’t folks like you.
Nex’ yer ’ave to feed the poddies, an’ yer
chasin’ them with waddies
As they gallop down the paddock with
the buckets on their necks,
An’ yer let a string o’ curses as a silly calf
reverses, ' ,
An’ yer’d like to up an’ brain it —till yer
think o’ nex’ year’s cheques.
But at last yer toil is over—an’ the cows
is “in the clover,”
An’ yer snatch a bit o’ breakfast an’ grab
a cup o’ tea
W’ile the world seems growin’ rosy, an’ dozin’
w’en you’re cosy,
Yer dream that fat ’as risen till it’s touchin’
two an’ three.
Then yer ’ave a rude awakin’ w’en yer slip
shows that you’re makin’
Jist enough to ’ang on grimly if the grass’ll
only grow;
But the bracken keeps on springin’ w’ile
you’ve get the fern-’ook swingin’,
An’ the paddock’s jist as dirty as it was a
year ago."
I’ve done me share of yakker, fer I aven t
been a slacker,
An’ the muscle’s pretty ’earty on me
brawny, sunburned arm;
Still there’s nothin’ ’arf so wearin’ an’ so
deadly an’ despairin’
As the weary toil an’ seratchin’ on a
flamin’ dairy farm.
VICTORIA.
PATRICK T. FINDLAY.


COONARDOO,"
the £500 prize serial which is to open in next week’s
“Bulletin,” will interest the Man on the Land. It is in great
part the splendid story of the working of a Far Nor’-West
cattle station, and there are graphic descriptions of the jobs
the remotest run-holder has to do.
NEXT WEEK.
Woolgrowers!
Get full value
for your star lots of wool.
Have them classed and inter-
lotted with similar small lots.
Big Even Lines
Get the Buyer f s
Attention.
For Particulars and Waybills write
The Graziers* Co-operative
Shearing Company, Ltd.,
23-25 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
R. C. Wilson,
Manager.
J, E., Snape,
Wool Expert.
r
Promptness—The first essential of Assurance.
P. & C. take pride in acting quickly. Every claim has immediate
attention. This is only one of the many advantages that com-
mend P. &C. Assurance to the man on the land. Policies car-
ried on during times of stress —money set aside each year for loans to
members. P. &C. is linked up with the most influential Co-operative
bodies, and clients' interests are closely guarded. Here are plain
facts for commonsense men—P. & C. Assurance is the kind you need
—investigate the policies right away. Send for literature.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD
ll4 - ITO CASTLE REACH ST. SYDNEY _£|
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE HORSE V. THE TRACTOR.
“R.R.R.”: What conclusions have prac-
tical farmers reached in regard to the
tractor? Many of them have been power-
farming long enough to give an opinion.
Eor the past two years I have used tractor-
power plus horse for every farm operation.
The results so far favor the tractor; but I
am not yet sure that the horse teams are not
the more economical.
The tractor has added over a hundred
pounds a year to the farm expenses, but more
work has been done, and the returns are
much greater. In comparison with a 10-horse
team the tractor is responsible for one-fifth
more work per working day. This means
that seeding is done at the right time after
the first winter rains, more land is fallowed
each year and the harvest finished weeks
earlier. The chance of a hailstorm ruining
the crop is lessened. Two men were required
to work the farm when horses were used;
now one man with help at seeding and har-
vest time is enough.
The drudgery inseparable from wheat-
farming when horses are used is no longer
noticeable. The workmen are more inter-
ested and contented. If the farmer is lucky
enough to have a son over school age the
tractor will help to keep the boy on the
farm and stop him from drifting to the city.
Unfortunately the money forujhe tractor,
oils and kerosene leaves Australia and never
returns. The depreciation is £l5O yearly
against £6O for a 10-horse team. The cost
of oils and fuel is 20 p.c. more than the cost
of cutting and chaffing sufficient hay for the
10-horse team. I give my estimate of costs
for both forms of power: Tractor—Deprecia-
tion £l5O, repairs £3O, fuel £150; total £330.
Horses—Depreciation and losses £6O, feed
£120; total £lBO. Tractor repairs are only
approximate, and depreciation is estimated
on a life of five years. With care the tractor
should last more than five years; hut repairs
after a five years’ service would be heavy.
My own experience and the experience of
my power-farming friends may be sufficient
excuse for the following advice to wheat-
farmers who are thinking of changing from
horses to tractor power:—
(1) Never buy a cheap tractor. When you
buy make certain the tractor can pull a 10-
horse load.
(2) Don’t buy a wheel tractor.
(3) Don't buy a tractor on any account,
if you are not in a strong financial position
and crop at least 500 acres yearly.
DOES CO-OPERATION PAY?
“R.R.R.”: Bounded on the north by the
70,000 acres of Lake Cowcowing our little
community numbers only 22 farmers. The
railway siding is midway between two towns,
each seven miles off. Through a co-opera-
tive society, in which the 22 settlers hold
all the shares, practically the whole business
of these wheat-farmers is transacted.
The society was founded in 1915 with 200
shares paid up to 2s. each. No calls have
been made, and at the present time the
shareholders own a fine brick store, stock
valued at £2OOO, manager’s residence, two
well-kept tennis courts and a large hall for
meetings, dances, etc. There is no debt,
and all goods are bought from the whole-
sale merchants for cash at a discount. Be-
sides dealing in groceries, drapery, hardware
and farmers’ requisites, the society handles
all wheat brought to the siding (about
40,000 bags yearly), buys for cash all corn-
sacks, and retails them at a lower price than
the city merchants quote, and sells on com-
mission the greater part of the machinery
used. The . shareholders are connected by
telephone with the store. The manager is
telephone operator, postmaster and station-
master.
The society shows a yearly profit of £6OO
to £7OO. Bad and doubtful debts are con-
fined to a few small amounts ow r ed by farm
laborers and clearers. The private wheat-
buyer finds the place cold even during the
hot wheat-carting season.
HORSE-SHOEING.
“Chapman Billie”: The farmer often has
to shoe horses, and many evils then are per-
petrated. One is setting the shoe by burning.
Have your shoe hot, but merely mark the
hoof with it. Then use knife and rasp.
Do not hold on a black-liot shoe; that heat
is penetrating and injurious. Do not knife
away the incrustation on the sole of the
hoof; merely trim. The same applies to
the frog. Don’t rasp the nails away when
clinched down. Shorten the toe if neces-
sary. The most oommon evil and the one
that should be absolutely avoided is the cut-
ting and lowering of a horse’s heels. Have
the shoe projecting slightly over the heels.
If using shop shoes, for some horses they
will need to be concaved. For a stock-horse
use a very narrow shoe and shoe short.
TIMBER FOR FENCE-POSTS.
“Two Seas”: Redgum is one of the varie-
ties of timber that “Mullarula” (B.
25/7/’2B) should have excepted from the no-
good-in-the-ground class. It is one of the
best for posts. When renovating an old
woolslied I started to dig out some redgum
posts that had been erected more than 40
years, but, finding that only the sapwood had
decayed, I let them remain on duty. Moun-
tain ash is one of the timbers useless for
posts, but it makes good tough rails. Stringy-
bark varies. Sometimes it will last for years
in the ground, but often it will rot off at
ground-level in a year or two. A lot depends
upon where the timber was grown. Taken
from high ridges it lasts longer than when
grown on flats. But the best stuff I have
handled for fencing-posts is redgum; then
follow white box and ironbark.
SAVE THE ROPES.
“C.C.”: One sees a lot of rope wasted on
farms and stations through carelessness. The
usual method is to wait until a yard or two
of rope has unravelled and then check it by
tying knots in it. The proper way before
using a new rope is to “whip” the ends
sailor fashion. Take a length of seaming
twine, and lay two or three inches of it on
the end of the rope. Hold the twine tight
with the left thumb, and bind the other part
closely around it for an inch or so. Then
draw the end tight and cut off level. Now
take the other end of the twine and lay it
on the rope in the opposite direction, binding
it closely with its own part until within an
inch of the rope’s end. Hold the last coil
of the twine firmly with your thumb, and
draw the loose end up tight. Put the
whipped end of the rope on the floor, or hard
ground, and roll it backwards and forwards
under the sole of your boot. Take another
pull on the loose end of the twine and cut
it off close to the whipping. This makes a
neat job and the rope will last longer for it.
WATERPROOFING TARPAULINS.
“Blowfly”: A useful mixture for water-
proofing tarpaulins consists of 60 per cent,
boiled linseed oil, 31 per cent, raw oil and
9 per cent, of fish oil. Boil together with
vegetable black as a coloring matter, one
half-pound of black to one gallon of oil.
Boiling must be continued until the mix-
ture is reduced to about three-quarters of
the original bulk; after applying with a
paintbrush, hang out in the sun to dry.
SECURING THE IRON ROOF.
“Wealsman”: Much better than holding
the springheads with a pair of pliers when
roofing with iron is to use a punch of the
good old home-made sort —a two-foot length
of 3 x 1 hardwood with a four-inch nail
driven through it near one end, the point
projecting an inch or more. To punch the
hole for your springhead place the nail-
point on the exact spot desired, holding the
batten flat across the corrugated sheet with
the left hand. A tap with the hammer on
the wood, close to the nail-punch, will send
the nail-point easily through three or four
thicknesses of iron, without jar or risk of
thumb. If fairly seasoned hardwood is
used this improvised punch will last for
days, and if the nail does eventually work
loose, it can be driven through the wood in
a fresh place. It is much handier on a roof
than pliers, for it stays put. and is useful
as a gauge.
MAIZE AS SILAGE.
“Gunnible” ; I have seen hundreds of acres
of corn going to waste in the New England
districts (N.S.W.) because the market was
dead. If such maize was gathered and
placed in a silage pit, it would save the
farmer hundreds of pounds in the next dry
spell.
It is not always a good plan to store the
corn in bags, as the weevil frequently
attacks it. I have found, however, that
New England corn has a harder shell than
the majority of maize crops, and can with-
stand the weevil’s attacks better. But maize
is not troubled with the weevil when it is
made into ensilage, and it is one of the
most nutritious of all.
DO HORSES’ BONES MEND?
“Tomkai” : A horse’s bones have no mar-
row. The so-called bone is composed of a
thin film, about 3-16ths of an inch thick,
on the outer wall like bone. The inner
body is a mass of irregular-shaped cells filled
with a very thin oil. The cell walls are
only l-32nd of an inch thick, and very
tough, like horn. If the bone is cut several
weeks after death it will be found that all
the oil lias disappeared. These inner cells
never mend. It is only the outer shell that
mends. After the bone has mended, the
breaking strain will be only 3-6th of the
original figure, even under the very best
conditions of bone-setting. If the skin is
broken and the oil let out there is no hope of
even the outer bone mending, no matter how r
much time is given in the sling.
COLOR OF CATTLE AND CLIMATE.
“Hatter” : It is interesting to learn from
the Land page that the red polls are gaining
favor in Queensland. This accords with a
theory recently advanced in Europe con-
cerning color of cattle and climate. It has
been noticed that many breeds which are
hardy enough under the grey skies of the
tvt (.t. i xi • • , x j x
North lose their vigor when transported to
the Argentine and other and countries. .One
would natural y attribute this to the heat,
but it ] f, a Irnd th a t the damaging factor is
really the continued bright sunlight which
has an adverse effect on both animals and
plants accustomed to cloudy conditions,
Red, however, is a protective color, and it
has been found that Devons and shorthorns
will thrive well under tropical conditions
that sap the vitality of cattle -otherwise
colored. .
In Australia, where wire fences must
necessarily take the place of the hedges and
stone walls of older countries, and where
the pasture is usually a rotating crop and
trees are a nuisance in cultivation paddocks,
far too little attention is paid to the import-
ance of providing adequate shelter for stock
fiom sun and wind.
niTip n a tpv f \pmvr’g nidrn
THE DAIRY-FARMER S PART.
“R.X.8.”: If you are a dairy-farmer, and
especially of you are supplying milk direct
to the public, you will do well to light your
pipe and think of the important part you
play in the affairs of life, and decide for
yourself w'hether you are playing your part
fairly. The milk you produce is going to
the public to be consumed in some form, but
those who rely largely on your product are
invalids .and children. Is each cow in your
herd healthy? Are you using reasonably
clean and sanitary methods in the bails and
dairy, washing your hands before you milk,
washing dirty teats and udders, and keep-
ing buckets and cans scrupulously clean?
If not, you are not playing the game.
The methods of treating milk at factories
should result in the destruction of all germ
life, and a consumer who gets milk that has
passed through a factory should have little
fear. Any fears that do arise may be laid
to rest by Pasteurising the milk before it is
used. Pasteurising is the simple process
of slowly bringing the milk to 140 deg. Fall,
and letting it cool again. If any wog can
survive, it may be the bacillus of tubercu-
losis. I firmly refuse to believe that it can
exist in butter and cheese; and I am not at
all satisfied with the evidence that, despite
its nice little fatty overcoat, this bovine
form can survive factory methods or Pas-
teurisation, and adapt itself to a destruc-
tive existence in a human being whose nor-
mal temperature is always from 3 to 5
degrees below that of an infected cow.
For all that, if you have a tuberculous
oow in your herd you are not playing the
game. Pulmonary tuberculosis is the usual
form of the trouble. An infected cow at
three years will be in poor condition, its
eyes will be staring and its Coat very
harsh; at five years, a hollow, racking
cough will be well established, and this will
be specially noticeable if the cow is made
to hurry. But this is not the only form in
which tuberculosis may be present, and other
forms may show few external symptoms
other than poor condition. The only cer-
tain method of detection is the tuberculin
test. Why not have the whole herd tested
and certified as being tubercle-free? Your
district stock inspector, or the officers of
the Stock Branch, will willingly co-operate
with you, and do the testing. If a cow can-
not pass the test it is quite incurable, and
should be destroyed; and while this may
mean a loss to your pocket, it should mean
a big gain to your conscience.
SHOULD PIGS BE CULLED?
“P.M.”: “C.K.C.” (B. 25/7/’2B) advises
culling the weak pigs out of a litter at a
week old and killing all but five or six. To
feed a sow for a year and get only two
litters of. five or six each, say eleven pigs
a year, is a ridiculous waste. A lot of
breeders would soon get rid of a sow that
would not rear eight or nine every litter,
and an average of ten is not by any means
uncommon. I knew a Berkshire sow that
had seven litters in three and a half years,
and reared 78 young ones; the smallest
litter was ten. Anyhow, though a pig is
small and weedy at a week old, it is quite
as likely as not that he will be as big as
the rest at three months.
BACON CURING.
“Theo”: The curing of bacon for home
use is a very profitable practice for the
farmer in the colder months. The labor
and time involved are negligible.
Because putrefactive agencies work at
high pressure during unsettled weather it is
important that the slaughtering should be
done in fine, clear conditions. The carcase
will then lose its hea't quickly. No undue
delay should take place in dressing the
pig, and it should be hung overnight in an
airy shed or in the open air, to get
thoroughly cold.
No elaborate manipulation is necessary in
the curing. A quarter of coarse salt alone
is ample to cure a pig of, say, 1501 b. dressed
weight. In cutting up, if the pig 'be large
■'the ribs and aitch bones may be removed.
The pork may be cut into hams, middles
and shoulders to make better the packing.
Each piece should be covered with coarse
salt on its fleshy side and the lot packed
rind downward in a pile on a table or in a
flat box where it may drain. In 24 hours
the order of the pile should be reversed, any
bare patches on the flesh being covered with
fresh salt. In about a week inspect again
and attend to any bare places. Laborious
rubbing is unnecessary, the salt being
worked in at the first operation.
Denny should remain in the salt a fort-
night or three weeks, when the surplus may
be brushed off (this salt may be saved for
curing hides) and the bacon hung up and
lightly smoked. With the head, pork, bones
and lard it will be the most profitable pig
of the season.
HANDY SEED PLANTER.
“Ohmy”: Take a piece of the side of a
benzine case 3in. wide. Bore fin. hole lin.
from the end, in the centre. Pare the other
end for a hand-grip. Then get a 2oz. round
tobacco-tin. Punch six or eight holes in the
bottom Jin. from the edge, equal distances
apart. The first hole l-16in. diam., increas-
ing the size of each to about Jin.; also one
hole in the centre; rub the burrs off with a
file. Screw the tin on the board so that
the holes will pass above the fin. hole. Turn
the tin until the hole required is in line with
the hole in the board. Place the seed in the
tin; walk the drill, shaking the tin to keep
the seeds in motion. If sowing too thickly
turn the tin to a smaller hole ; if too thin
turn bo a larger hole.
PREPARING POTATO LAND.
“Paul C.”: While happy-go-lucky potato-
planting may on occasion result in a good
yield, a thorough preparation of the ground
is usually essential to a good crop. The land
( Continued on page 25.)


For whatever purpose
your car is used
it will be more efficient and
dependable if the tyre equip-
ment is Dunlop*
Everything that a keen motorist
can expect from tyres—Dunlop
will do —and a little more. Their
quality and construction ensure
value* mileage, and comfort that
will be appreciated. Dunlop has had
the advantage of 27 years experience
building tyres in Australia for
Australian roads, and the know-
ledge gained assures that extra road
performance for which Dunlop is
noted.
You can be sure of Dunlop
service, for Dunlop quality
never varies.
5000 Garages stock Dunlop covers
and tubes.
To Executives of
Commercial and
Industrial Activities
Let Dunlop truck tyres help
you keep down “overhead."
Everywhere delivery vans and
trucks are rendering invaluable
aid in the advancement of almost
every business. Naturally running
costs are keenly watched. Not only
is it important that tyres should
have long life but it is essential
to avoid delays on the Because
of their outstanding reliability
a large percentage of the commercial
automobiles on the road are running
on Dunlop,
Their long life ♦ ♦ ♦ smooth
even wear , , , and low cost
per running mile, are truly
exceptional.
m
m
Wa
W/i
m/L
h
m
’A
%
©
&
l
l ill
••ft
•fhf
'li/I
•m l
/j
&
iV''
\W'
<3
A
KEEP THE
PRESSURE
RIGHT
with a reliable gauge
and ensure
Greater mileage
Extra comfort
Easier steering
Better car balance
Care-free travel
Do it - every Friday!
The
USUAL service from
DUNLOP
is exceptional!


v V ?
h»
SV<3r
EVERYWHERE
••k
a'jM.if»>s'iWW»~'r
•<SiSS
:->y-/j
Authorised
Dealer
general
motors
Genuine Parts
Sold Here
r*>
>» c
&$»
■*!<vSPs,
c?v'X£'i)
'm
v..
-
Wf
a
IV
GENERAL
MOTORS
GepuinePartj.
:x.
X
THE man who buys a modern
motor car knows that it is
an efficient, dependable
transportation unit.
But he realises just as fully
that there may come a time in
the life of the finest car when
service and spare parts are
necessary.
It is because of the certainty
of satisfactory after sale service
that the majority of buyers favor
General Motors cars.
The owner of a General Motors
car has the assurance that any-
where in Australia he has within
easy reach an authorised dealer
equipped to render specialist ser-
vice and provide spare parts
immediately they are necessary.
There are authorised General Motors dealers
everywhere ready to provide parts and service
for Chevrolet, Pontiac, Oldsmobile, Oakland,
Buick, Vauxhall, La Salle, Cadillac and GMC
Aru , c ..' They are readily identified by the Gen-
eral Motors Authorised Dealers Sign.
Buy from Your Local Dealer
I LimiteD
vr,
3C.
•ak-ir-%*
\
_ _ V v4 '“
GENERAL MOTORSI
V. MELBOURNE- SYDNEY—ADELAIDE - BRISBANE —PERTH
' .— — -z~dix
ti'i
T/
Al
s>
m
bm
SB!
ass
la
salle
o
%
OAKLANWJ!
WV
LA C
Pn EH 0
AO


-
■:*
1
■
,2
Close-fitting and free
An Abbey Shoe built for constant
going. It’s made of pliant velour
calf and has low-cut sides that add
considerably to comfort and neat-
ness. They do not bulge, but
always fit closely.
This shoe, too, arches in a special
way over the instep, so that, with-
out tight lacing, it follows the
natural shape of the foot. There s
no strain—it allows full muscle-
freedom.
Order by Post.
You can get practically a made-
to-measure shoe each full or half
size is available in three fittings:
narrow, medium and wide. Ask
also for the correct Abbey Polish
(6d. per tin).
421-
per
pair.
40 -Page Colored Catalogue post free
on request .
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 Georjjs St. and 224 Pitt St.,
LB7. SYDNEY.
GET EVERY SKIN BY USING
THE QUICKEST POISON.
SAYASTRYC
STRYCHNINE
with the addition of another chemical
to make it quicker in its action.
IT IS CHEMICAL LIGHTNING.
R^bbitßjisoN -
Drops Them DeadontheSpot
c*.
3J
[HMiuftnowii»sAvtiiSMiPUßTmrßg»wcawii[s^n)iur>
Post free to any part of Australia,
4/- per ounce.
GUARANTEE.
If Sayastryc does not please you better
than the best Crystal Strychnine we
will refund the 4/- for the ounce tried.
MANUFACTURED BY
SAYERS* ALLFORT PTY., LTD.,
55 MACQUARIE STREET, SYDNEY.
fl
m
Real Skin Health
Follows Use of Cuticura
Bathe daily with the Soap and
hot water, anointing irritations, if
any, with the Ointment. Regular
use of Cuticura Soap and Ointment
soothes and comforts tender, sensi-
tive skins and keeps them healthy
and attractive.
Soap ls.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co.,Sydney, N.S.W.”
, SHF Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE . . . . 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
PAY AS YOU GO BY CHEQUE
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4- It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed Interest on your
minimum quarterly balance .
'Sit margProl) liters ,6a np of ustralia %
HEAD OFFICE 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
?
Saves 100 Shovels !
THE MARTIN DITCHER will do the
work of a hundred men at a fraction
of the cost. It is the most useful tool
on any Australian farm. Write us
for illustrated leaflet and particulars.
gs aE —
igeit&w£;
JjW’' 11 V. "V*
/'Ms,- _i .'ivS
&<■
T7ie Old Way
and 'i’/ic New?.
e
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne*.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
T. & G. BTg, Light Square, Adelaide.
P3ICE
£35
B.K.
BAGSHAW’S
ASTHMA
POWDER
m
ASTHMA POWDER
(2/6 All Chemists)
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Post Free, 2/9, from The Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
should be ploughed deeply, eight inches at
least, preferably in autumn. In order to
improve the soil’s moisture-holding capacity,
as also to give it a better texture, organic
matter must be supplied if not already pre-
sent. This may be done by ploughing —under
a green crop or by spreading and ploughing—
in farmyard manure. In early spring, before
planting time, the ground needs successive
ploughing, harrowing and rolling until it is
reduced to a fine tilth. If this routine is car
lied out properly, the land will have retained
sufficient moisture for planting as soon as
danger of frosts has passed, unless the pre-
vious season has been an exceptionally dry
one.
POTATO MANURING.
“Hatter”: “Curlew” says (B. 11/7/’2B)
that 2 or 3 cwt. of super, per acre has
been proved to give the best yield for pota-
toes. The rainfall of the district must be
taken into account in determining the right
quantity of manure to apply. In a recent
potato-crop competition in Tasmania, super-
intended by the Department of Agriculture,
the winner, whose crop yielded 7 tons 7cwt.
2qr. per acre, used no less than 6cwt.
of super, per acre, and sowed it in the fur-
raws with the sets. Virgin soil and stable
manure were barred by the terms of the com-
petition, but the winning entry followed a
catch crop of Algerians which had also
been manured with lewt. of super, per acre
and had been partly fed off and then
ploughed under. Previous to this the land
had been summer-fallowed.
Too little attention is paid to the matter
of seed selection. In Jersey, where the
potato has been intensely cultivated for gen-
erations, the method is to select the greenest
and most vigorous plants when the crop is
about three-quarters grown. These are dug
and the tubers are left in the sun until
thoroughly green and hard, and then care-
fully stored. The islanders claim that there
is no comparison between the results thus
obtained and the more general method of
using ripe seed. Experiments, moreover,
have proved that tubers taken from imma-
ture plants have given better returns than
those from the same plants which have been
allowed t>o ripen.
A POTATO RECORD.
“Tahune”: An experimenter in my
neighborhood (Tas.) has produced a new
and prolific variety of the old redskin potato,
known originally as Circular Head (where
it was first produced nearly a century ago),
later also as Derwent and Brown’s River,
and, in Victoria, as Warrnambool. This
potato always headed the market until a
craze for white, or near-write, kinds dis-
placed it in popular favor. From a pound
weight of seeds the highest yield with widely-
spaced settings was 11321 b., at the rate of
30 tons per acre. The method followed
was to weigh one pound of whole tubers,
cut to a single eye, and plant out under usual
kitchen-garden, conditions of cultivation and
manuring. The name given to this mammoth
cropper is Red Monarch. It is remarkable
that sets cut to one or two eyes invariably
return a root of almost wholly marketable
size. Evenness is a characteristic.
EARLY TOMATOES.
“Go Do”: “XSA” (B. 8/8/’2B) may col-
lect good money on early tomatoes, but
would collect his fruit a good deal earlier
in most districts by altering his methods a
little. In the first place he puts a layer of
well-rotted manure 4in. deep under a layer
of loam the same depth. As “XSA” says,
this gives drainage; but it gives nothing else.
If the layer was 6in. deep and consisted of
fresh manure it would give heat and drain-
age, the heat assuring a good germination.
A little experience will enable the grower to
plant the seed after the temperature has
reached its maximum.
When planting the seed I never broadcast
it, as the seed will be buried at uneven
depths, besides producing plants unevenly.
The best method to use is to make rows
2in. apart with the edge of a stick and
sprinkle the seeds lightly along this. These
seeds can then be covered lightly, and after
germination thinned out to lin. apart. Many
growers leave the plants at this and later
place direct in the field.
Like “XSA” I transplant to other boxes,
but give then a greater spread, planting
the seedlings on the square system sin. x
3in. apart. Another thing worth remem-
bering is to have the boxes only 3in. deep.
This not only lightens the work, but en-
ables the roots to cling much more firmly to
the soil. The plants can be cut out with
a knife and placed direct in the field with-
out injuring the roots.
Other means I adopt to force early fruit
are to stake and prune the plants to a
single stem; this assures the grower of
ripe fruit 10 days earlier than from plants
on the ground. I find it payable to give
fairly, heavy dressings of both artificial and
organic manures at transplanting time. It
pays also to give a further top-dressing of
superphosphate when the plants have the
first bunches half grown.
AUSTRALIA’S ArPLE MARKET.
“Wealsman”: Hobart Mercury’s enter-
prising reporter A. J. Villiers, who lately
shipped as able seaman on a racing wind-
jammer from Adelaide to London, is now
supplying his paper with some timely articles
about the overseas marketing of apples. Tas-
manian fruitshippers, who sent nearly three
million cases of apples across the equator
this season, are finding themselves up against
the discomforting fact that Maoriland, South
Australian and. Westralian fruit is fetching
better prices in Pudding-lane than their
own. Villiers’s investigations show that the
best-flavored apples in the world won’t top
the market in London if competitors pack
their wares more attractively, grade them
with greater care, pay more attention to the
regulation of shipments to avoid gluts, and
make a close study of the question of consign-
ing the right sorts to the right parts. London
“kes small apples, Glasgow prefers big ones.
The Tas. shippers, with some 3,000,000 boxes
of apples to get overseas in a hurry, appa-
rently liave no time to consider these fine
marketing points. Maoriland, with a mere
200,000 or 300,000 boxes and better shipping
facilities, need not be so pell-mell about the job.
But there are indications that even the
easy-going Tas. orchardist is beginning to
realise that unless he mends his methods —
sends fewer sorts of apple to London and
packs ’em better, inspects them more effici-
ently and jumps very emphatically on the
neighbor whose greed or carelessness may
spoil the market for a whole cargo—he may
soon have nothing to eat but apples and
his neighbors.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Silentio” : Never put paper in the nursery-
trays of the incubator for the chicks to slip
on. Out pieces of sacking or hessian, and
they can be washed for duty again. The
youngsters get a chance to stand up on the
cloth.
“Silentio”: Hoe out all the marshmallows
in the fowl pens. Despite an adequate green-
feed supply, the hens will pick all the leaves
off the mallow, and get poor Qn the diet.
Its astringent properties are apparently
relished, but it’s a great weight-reducer.
“D. J.II.”: When cementing the copper in,
just before finishing off the top coating
stretch fine-mesh wire-netting over the bricks,
pegging down at the sides, and inside, with
long nails. Then fix the copper, in and cover
well with fairly soft cement. The wire stops
the cracks that usually come in the top.
“D.J.H.”: When putting in the strut
against the straining post, bore a hole
through both, and run a bolt or piece of iron
to hold them together. The strut often gets
knocked out and lets the wire loose, and this
scheme saves undoing all the wires and re-
straining.
“H.H.”: To scare away troublesome spar-
rows and starlings, cut out a circular piece
of tin, with small points projecting on it.
Fix goose or duck feathers on these points,
and suspend by means of a piece of string
from the end of a pole. Place the pole in
the ground near the bed or tree you want
to protect, and, on the slightest puff of
wind, you won’t see a sparrow anywhere
near it.
“Silentio”: One of the biggest obstacles
to turkey-raising is the disease known as
blackhead, and the recent discovery of Mr.
C. Lawrence, of Hawkesbury College, is very
welcome. His treatment is ipecacuanha
wine given in the early stages of growth,
until they have “shot the red.” His plan
is to confine the young birds, without water,
once a week, and administer ipecac. A des-
sertspoonful to a quart of water will do for
15 to 20 turkeys, and is claimed to be a sure
preventive. If adults are showing any signs
of the complaint, separate them and dose up
to 10 drops of wine night and morning.
“0.W.W.”: If peas are soaked in kerosene
before being planted, the birds will not
trouble them.
“Mick Q.”: When there is no lucerne, and
the grass in the paddocks is dry and poor,
poddy calves, on a meagre allowance of milk,
have a thin time. Give them a daily ration
of steamed lucerne chaff. Pour a little boil-
ing water over the chaff while it is in the
bucket or feeding trough, or by quickly
dipping a bag containing some lucerne chaff
in and out of a bucket of boiling water. Stir
a little and let it cool off before feeding.
“Country Judge”: If you have a small
mob of sheep you can keep the ram a
bachelor without separate paddocking by
strapping a suitable length of chain from
one fore- to the opposite hind-leg. A divorce
from bed and not from board is thus affected.
But the hobble should be transposed occa-
sionally, as the restricted Lothario is liable
to chafe in the legs. His ability to get
through fences is also lessened.
“Drover”: If you want your hobbles to
last well, don’t put them in the corned-beef
water until it is cold. If dipped in hot water
the straps will crack. Always grease them
after wet weather.
“O. W. Wadham”: When preparing the
crosscut-saw for green timber, remember
much more set is required than for seasoned
wood.
“Drover”: Don’t plaster dripping on a
prad’s sore back or girth gall. The salt acts
as an irritant and besides stinging the
animal is likely to scald the sore and turn
a mild one into something that will give
real trouble.
“B-Gar”: Want of salt often makes the
prads bite and rip pieces of stable wood
away, so put a piece of rock salt in each bin.
“Sheik”: If, during the winter months,
you have trouble in getting your oil engine
to start, add one pint of kerosene to every
five pints of oil in the sump.
“Yellow Rock”: To destroy black ants,
dissolve a small piece of arsenate of soda,
the size of a grain of rice, and stir in to
honey or jam. Place in a saucer or shallow
tin in their track. They will thoroughly
enjoy it. Being cannibals, they not only
poison themselves, but the whole nest. But
be careful —it is poison.
“P.M.”: I think “W.W. J.” was wrong
when he said raw potatoes are no use to
fatten pigs. Cooked potatoes are certainly
better, but the farmer who has a large crop
of potatoes on his hands and can’t afford the
labor to cook and mash, the pigs can fatten
them by turning the pigs into the potato
paddock, and show a profit on it.
“Old Timer” : Poultry-farmers are troubled
at this time of the year with toe-pick-
ing chicks. Incubator chicks depend a lot
on sunshine for warmth, and stand around
on sand or concrete or other whitish litter.
The sun thus shows through their thin skins,
the blood is seen, and .they begin the habit,
and often cripple themselves. The remedy
is to scatter dry bracken, or other dark litter,
in their run, and some chick-feed to keep
them busy. Isolate the toe-pickers.
Guy Dawson (Argentine) : A method of
cattle-stealing that’s new to me has just
come to my knowledge, and I pass it on
for the benefit of my old Australian friends
in the cattle-raising business. A tame cow
a poddy, was washed in a strong solution
of salt and water. When dry she was
driven a distance and mixed with other
stock. Some days later she arrived home
with quite a large following of the other
stock. You must understand that this coun-
try is very poorly supplied with salt, and
there are practically no fences.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
Wants.
By Englishman (19), well educated, know-
ledge agriculture, job on cotton plantation
with chance to learn industry. Keep and
nominal wage.—6ls7.
By returned soldier, married, four child-
ren, understands horses and can drive Ford-
son tractor, job on wheat farm, Q’land, on
shares. Prepared to assist in opening up
new land. —6113.
By experienced governess (30), position
on N.S.W. station. Eng., French, Latin,
drawing and painting, music. Good refs.
£lOO p.a.—6093.
By thoroughly experienced Tas. steno-
grapher and typist, position as private secre-
tary. Experienced in general office routine,
law, engineering and technical work; filing.
Present salary £4 10s. —6094.
By active, sober man (45), work, Sydney,
odd jobs about house, cleaning, garden,
kitchen or caretaker. —6103.
To exchange two blocks of land, each
100 ft. frontage, at Bellgrave (Vie.), for a
second-hand car worth £l5O, or will sell for
£75 each.—6l34.
By educated young Englishwoman, tall,
position as reception clerk and book-keeper
in hotel, Q’land. Good appearance and social
abilities ; was mannequin.—6160.
By young woman (22), Tas., well educated
and experienced nursery-governess, similar
post, or as companion, chauffeuse or secre-
tary. Fond of travel. Go anywhere.—6l6l.
By gentleman (54), well educated, 10
years’ residence India, speaks language flu-
ently, position as guide to traveller visiting
that country—6lsB.
Woman (middle-aged) wants position as
housekeeper, business people, bachelors, guest-
house or private hospital. Competent all
household duties and can control a staff.
N.S.W. country town not objected t 0.—6166.
To buy photographs of dugongs and dugong
fishing, to use as illustrations to article on
dugong fishing.—6l79.
To purchase Commonwealth postage
stamps, all sorts, in bundles from 100 to
1000. (To A. Motham, 168 Melbourne-street,
North Adelaide.)
Whereabouts of Mrs. May Robertson, {nee
Gallagher), late of North Melbourne. (To H.
G. Fulirman, 100 East 42nd-street, New
York.)
To buy “Rifles and Ammunition,” by
Ommundsen and Robinson. —6152.
To sell brick villa, Sydney, 5 rms., offices,
etc., close to tram, ’bus and ferry, harbor
view. £l5OO. —6144.
To correspond with Bulletin readers, men
preferred, anywhere except Victoria. (To E.
J. A. Burn-Bailey, Murrabit, via Kerang,
Vic.)
Books, or reports, containing particulars of
profit-sharing schemes in operation in Aus-
tralia.—s 963.
To acquire general store in progressive
country railway town, lower North Coast
(N.S.W.), within 100 to 150 miles of New-
castle, turnover of £5OOO per year.—s 996.
To buy pair of roller skates. —6110.
Copy of recitation “A Braw Scotch Nicht.”
—6115.
To sell, block of land, about J acre, close
to station at Salisbury, near Brisbane (Q.).
Cost £2O in 1911. (To A. Harvey, 7 Des-
mond-road, Gisborne, N.Z.)
To buy early Australian magazines and
pamphlets.—6lol.
Whereabouts of Mary McCabe, of North
Q’land, who left there for South Africa and
recently returned.—6o92.
. To buy second-hand saxophone, E flat alto,
in good order, or good seoond-hand banjo.—
6123.
To correspond and exchange postage-
stamps with readers in Islands and abroad.
(To Frank B. Treatt, Young, N.S.W.)
To correspond with Bulletin readers in
(Other States on subjects of general interest.
(To Miss Janet Hill, Box 493 E, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.)
To buy a one-man brickmaking plant.
State price and particulars. (To Les Mills,
Lower Bielsdown, Dorrigo, N.S.W.)
To sell, complete, Alexander Hamilton
business course. Cost £32. £l2. —6159.
Partner, with capital, in fully bearing
plantation and to develop another exception-
ally good property, New Guinea.—6l73.
To sell, in Sydney, treadle lathe, 31in.
centres, 3ft. bed, compound slide rest, 4-
speed pulley, 3-jaw chuck, perfect order,
£l2 cash. —6164.
Information Sought.
(1) What is the largest cattle station in
the world? (2) What is its area? (3) How
many cattle does it carry? (4) What is the
largest sheep station in the world? (5) What
is its area? (6) How many sheep does it
carry? (7) What was the value of wool ex-
ported from Australia in the last financial
year ( ended June 30, 1928) ? (8) And from
Queensland ? —6049.
(1) The Vestey property, Wave Hill, N.T.
(2) Can’t get exact information. (3)
206,000. (4) Australian Pastoral Company’s
holdings at St. George, Q’land. (5) Can’t
say. (6 ) 300,000. (7) £66,067,762. (8)
£9,819,255.
How can the juice of lemons or oranges
be preserved for use as a beverage to last
at least four months? —6oBl.
Squeeze the juice into an enamelled
vessel, and let it stand for 24 hours. Pour
off the clear juice, and boil down to one-
third its volume; then cool off the vessel
containing the juice in a larger one contain-
ing water. Bottle when cool, filling to within
one inch of the cork, which must be tied
down. Place the bottles in a flat-bottomed
copper or pot, with straw below and between,
and fill up the pot with water to within one
inch of top of bottles. Heat over fire to
170 deg. Fahr., keeping at that heat for
25 minutes. Lay bottles on their sides until
cool. Store upright in a cool dark place.
In the scene in which Macbeth content
plates his dagger, should he sit or stand? Is
} u > supposed to be seeing with the mind only?
j) ocs ] ie return the dagger to the sheath?
flow is “Hecate ” pronounced in this con-
neetion?—6oB9.
Allan Wilkie, to whom we referred your
questions, replies that the action depends
upon the taste of the actor. Personally, he sits
f o r a few moments after the dismissal of the
servant, in reflective mood ; then rises as the
vision of the dagger appears to him. He
draws his own dagger to compare it with the
one he sees in his mind’s eye, and sheathes
it immediately. The scansion of the verse re-
quires that “Hecate” should be pronounced
as if it had but two syllables.
co-operative investment company regis-
tered under the Go-operation Community
Settlement and Credit Act 1923, and operat-
ing in N.S.W., distributes only its income
and places to reserve all profits made on the
sale of stocks and shares. (1) Must it pay
State income-tax only on its income less
working expenses, or on revenue (income and
profits, less working expenses)? (2) What
raie Ike tax bel (3) Would Federal
income-tax have to be paid and at what rate?
. . ~
(1) State income-tax is payable on the
income, plus deductions ordinar-
*ly disallowed m ar ™« at . the taxable
inco . me °t a company. (-)_ 3s. in the £. (3)
ls ’, m whole mcome ’ distributed
un distnbuted.
+ "°*? recognised as correct to exclude
lette Z u " words smc/i as “labour,”
honour and neighbour . 616.).
It s purely a matter of taste. The Bulle-
TIN doesn’t use the “u.”
U) What wages do lawyers' articled
clerks receive, and are they raised each year?
< 2 ) iF° W l ° UQ r°% S j* ta '% %
LB - B A°°l lrs % at ®y d ™V Umt (3) What
Zl the fe 7 e ?/ (4) Does it take longer to
become a barrister than it takes to become
a solicitor? (5) If you fail to matriculate,
j s there any other way of taking up law?
// so, what examinations would have to be
passed? (6) Is the status of anyone who
passes in this wary lower than if he had
graduated LL.8.— 6048.
(1) No fixed scale. It’s a matter of
arrangement between the parties. (2) The
courses of instruction at the Law School
occupy four years. (3) Including the fee
. or the degree, £lO3. (4) Not
necessarily, but in the case of a solicitor,
« . tbe studeint graduates before bding
articled his term may be reduced to three
years j n place of five for one who has not
graduated. (5) Yes. It is possible to
qualify by passing a preliminary examina-
tion in Latin, geometry, history, etc., an
intermediate examination in law and a final
examination in law. (6) No.
J have a seedling apple-tree eight years old
that has never blossomed or borne any fruit.
Is there any way to make it bear? —s9s3.
If the tree is making vigorous growth it
should not be pruned for a season or so,
the exception of cutting out cross
limbs. It would possibly pay to graft the
° Ver t 0 a welbkllown commercial
T , 7 , y * . . , , .
W foo/t t/fic d'ljjcvcivco tth Itvc atvcL dead/
(Messed) in bacon or other pigs?—
. . OA . . .
The trade estimate is 30 per cent. Actu-
ally it varies from 25 to 30 per cent,
What is meant by a Limited Company, a
Proprietary Limited Company, and a No
Liability Company? What are the advant-
ages of forming a business into a Pty. Com-
panwf—6oso.
In a limited liability co. the shareholder
isn’t liable for any more than the face value
of the shares in liis name. No call can be
made on him if his 20s. share is paid to 20s.
A prop. co. is a variety of limited co. known
id Vic., but not in most other States. There
is the same limitation of liability; also there
need be no P ubli c disclosure of the co.’s bal-
ance-sheets. Ano liability co. is one from
which a shareholder may withdraw even
A? Ugh A as n °n paid ,A P the full face
y a V e ‘ T P? cours £ b ® cannot get his money
back ’ is applicable only to mining.
A mandarin-orange may be broken into
several sections. Am I correct in calling
these quarters? —s9Bo.
Yes. As a matter of English usage, the
verb “quarter” can correctly be used to mean
a divi sion into any number of parts.
(1) What is paprika? (2) What is it
used for? (3) Where can it be bought? —
6057.
(1) The dried ripened fruit of Capsicum
annuum and various other species of pepper;
also, the condiment prepared from these. (2)
As a flavoring. (3) From any big provision
store.
(1) Which ducks are the most profitable
to keep, Indian runners or muscovies? (2)
Do Indian runners eat more than musco-
vies? (3) Which breed lays best? (4) Do
ducks oat more than hens? —sBlo.
(1) and (3) Indian runners are the better
layers; muscovies are considered the better
table birds. (2) No. (4) About half as
much again as hens.
What is the best treatment for falling
hair and slight dandruff? —s96s.
Wash frequently with soap-spirit, after
which the soap should be washed out with
two or three fresh waters. Then apply oint-
ment of a mild strength of sulphur and sali-
cylic acid.
(1) What is tile horse-poiver of a Ford-
son tractor? (2) What is the drawbar
horse-power? (3) What is the consumption
of kerosene per hour on full load? —6018.
(1) and (2) Belt, 20 h.p.; drawbar, 10
h.p. (3) On field or road, 1J gal.; used as
a stationary engine, f gal.
(1) What is the highest rental paid for
a fruit stand by barrowmen in Sydney? (2)
Dimension of stand? (3) Total amount paid
by barrowmen in Sydney per year to the
council in jees? (4) Have the Sydney auth-
orities finally decided to prohibit them? —
6127.
(1) £l3 13s. per week. (2) Eight feet by
four feet. (3) Approximately £6OOO. (4)
No.
(1) When does the shearing season com-
mence in Argentina? (2) What are most in
use there, blades or machines? (3) Would
it be worth while for an Australian shearer
to go there? —6126.
(1) Same as N.S.W. (2) Generally with
blades. Only a few sheds have machines.
(3) The sheds, as a rule, are small, and
the rate is about 15s. per 100.
(1) What residential qualifications must
an alien possess before he can become natu-
ralised in Australia? (2) To whom must
the necessary evidenee be given? (3) Where,
in N.S.W., are application forms obtainable?
—6142.
(1) He must have resided in the British
Empire for at least five years within the
last eight years, and the 12 months immedi-
ately preceding the application must have
been spent in Australia. (2) To the Investi-
gating Officer, who reports on applications.
(3) From the (Commonwealth Investigation
Branch, Customs House, Sydney.
(1) Is there anything in Q’land law com-
pelling a butcher to wrap meat in white
paper? (2) Where there is a monopoly, can
a butcher or any other tradesman refuse
to supply goods for cash? (3) What extra
charge should a customer pay for desiring
to run a monthly account? —5887.
(1) Hy regulation 20 under the Slaughter-
ing Act of 1898, wrapping in. unclean or
printed paper is made an offence. (2) A
good deal would depend on the grounds of
refusal. If there were not good and sufficient
grounds, and the intending customer suffered
privation, injury or damage by reason of such
refusal, common-law principles would provide
him with a remedy. (3) It is not usual to
make any charge, save such as may be im-
plied in granting cash customers a discount.
Is leprosy infectious or contagious? If
not, why are lepers segregated? —sB24.
It is contagious, but its power of spread-
ing is not comparable to that of an infectious
disease such as scarlet fever or diphtheria.
The mode of infection is not definitely
known. Close personal contact for a con-
siderable time appears to be an essential
condition.
(1) Is machine knitting at home profit-
able? (2) Is it difficult to learn? (3) What
is the price of a machine and where obtain-
able? (4) Are there firms that buy knitted
work ? —5962.
(1) Yes, if you can secure a number of
private customers. (2) Operation of the
machine is not difficult, but cutting, finishing,
blending of colors, designing, etc., call for a
good deal of ability. (3) About £55 new,
£35 second-hand. E. C. Heyne, 247 Eliza-
beth-street, Foster Knitting Machine Co.,
Jamieson-street, both of Sydney. (4) The
machine manufacturers sometimes assist pur-
chasers to place knitted productions, but it
isn’t advisable to depend on selling to shops.
(1) When marketing a proprietary medi-
cine in N.S.W. on the mail-order plan, must
I register the preparation? (2) What does
registration under the Pure Foods Act cost?
(3) What is its advantage? (4) What does
a copyrighted name cost? . (5) Are there
any points to beware of in advertising? —•
5785.
(1) Registration under the N.S.W. Pure
Food Act is optional. (2) No charge is
made. (3) It helps the sale of the goods
if a Pure Food Act guarantee is printed
on the label. (4) £1 on application and £2
on registration. (5) Beware of extravagant,
false or misleading claims, and make sure
you are not pirating some other manufac-
turer’s slogan or other advertising methods.
(1) How long will rum keep good, corked
up in a bottle? (2) Does it improve with
age in the bottle? (3) Will wine improve
with age in the bottle? —6063.
(1) For several years. (2) Generally
speaking, no. (3) Yes. Wines such as port,
with a considerable amount of body and
strength, will continue to improve for many
years. The lighter wines improve for a
comparatively few years, after which they
deteriorate.
I intend putting a flagpole on my lawn.
ShoiiM I fig the red or blue Australian en-
sign ? —6071.
The red ensign. The blue is an official
flag.
Can you give me a recipe for “white oil”
embrocation ? —5886.
Take 2 eggs well beaten, \ pint vinegar,
2oz. turpentine, ioz. spirits wine. spirits
camphor. Beat all well together, put into a
bottle, and shake. Keep well corked.
I have a house in which the walls were
built without a damp course. The salt damp
has risen 3ft. up the wall. If I put in a
damp course, will the salt already in the
wall cause any further trouble? —5576.
If the house is on salty ground, a damp
course would prevent further absorption from
the soil, but will not eliminate salt already
absorbed. A facing of cement to which a
damp-proofing mixture has been added might
prove a remedy.
Information Supplied.
5553. —To prevent wombats rooting under
a boundary netting fence, put a barbed wire
6in. below the netting.
Does Anybody Know?
How to cure a young horse of the habit of
breaking the bridle whenever he is tied up?—
6111.
How to steer “Gaston” disc cultivator (old
type) from seat of tractor? —6097.
Brief Answers.
N.M.C.: As a policy-holder you are still
well protected. But fat bonuses are far away. You
shouldn’t have got in; whether you should get out
depends on whether and at what rate a better co.
would have you... .J.K.H.: (1) None. (2) Shortage
of money. (3) Don’t know. (4) No. (5) Just
do nothing, though it might save somebody expense
if you notified the co. that you were forfeiting. (6)
N0....L.K.: Sorry, don’t know anything about it
Not quoted. .. .Nunibary: They are all gambles;
follow what look to you like the best men....
N.D.P.: Poorly handled; n 0... .T.li.F.; A wife’s
implied authority to pledge her husband’s credit is
confined to the purchase of domestic commodities
necessary and suitable to the style in which her
husband lives. A husband can repudiate any of
his wife’s debts on production of proof that he gave
adequate warning that credit must not be extended
to her F.A.C.: Take plenty of exercise—long
walks would do —and consume plenty of milk and fruit.
S.G.: (1) Yes. (2) £5O is allowed. For every
£lO by which the capital exceeds that amount, a
deduction of £1 per annum is made from the pension.
. ...A.E.S.: (1) Apply to Passports Branch, Home
and Territories Department, 01 Spring-street, Mel-
bourne. (2) £37. (3) P. and 0., via the Cape
Service. (4) Yia Durban and Capetown. (5) Two
years. (6) Yes, provided you have repaid loans made
to you, refunded the Commonwealth Government’s
contribution towards your passage money and obtained
clearance from the immigration authorities....
H.D.F.: Try an advt. in the Kempsey Argus or
Kempsey Chronicle. .. .H.T.L.: Sidey’s “Company
Formation, Management and Winding Up” (30s. 9d.
posted), Angus and Robertson, Sydney... .M.C.:
(1) Seller’s price. (2) Advertise for offers or get
a reputable art dealer to sell them on commission.
(3) Not worth much unless you can produce proof
of authorship.... Rex: The council has decided that
in the casa of flats only one garbage pan shall be
removed twice weekly, free of charge, and that all
extra pans shall be charged for. The validity of
the decision is a matter for a test case. Consult
a solicitor... .L.M.: Wash the strop with warm water
and soap, using a hard nailbrush. Then apply
any reputable strop-dressing... .J.C.M.: Dalgety and
Co., Ltd., William-street; Elder, Smith and Co., Ltd.,
St. Georgo’s-terrace—both of Perth... .E.J.8.: Oxy-
or electric-welding is inadvisable. Purchase of a
new gear is recommended... .F.G.M.: In Burns’s
“Tam o’ Shanter”... .H.A.L.: (1) Collections of
Balzac’s short stories are published in Dent’s Every-
man’s edition under the titles “Sign of the Cat and
Rachet,” “Wild Asses’ Skin,” “Christ in Flanders”
and “Quest of the Absolute.” They form a good
introduction to the longer works. (2) The “Droll
Stories” suffer more in translation than most of his
other works. They have a Rabelaisian sort of humor.
. ...J.A.: If you have received less than £3OO
during the 12 months ended June 30, you need
not furnish a return... .J.L.H.: Impracticable. If
you installed the syphon that way it would be neces-
sary to prime it each time there was a variation in
the level in the trough... .F.M.N.: (1) Prizes won
in art unions or such sweepstakes as Tattersall’s or
the Golden Casket are not liable to Federal or N.S.W.
income tax. (2) Income from betting on race
meetings is not taxable, if the betting is not
carried on as a business... .L.F.G.: No information
available to us. Get into touch with the ’ Resident
Commissioner, Tulagi, British Solomons... .W.C.:
(1) The yield of gold up to 31st December, 1927,
within a radius of ten miles of Bendigo (Vic.),
was approximately 16,150,7950 z. (2) Searching for
information. .. .F.H., A.W. and 8.R.: See reply to
No. 6043, which will answer your question; the last
paragraph refers to the washing of wool. .. .E.P.F.;
There are many patches in the Mildura-Red Cliffs
(Vic.) area. The best grove is to be seen on the
block owned by C. Leeder at Merbein. .. .D.H.L.;
Write to Commonwealth Lighthouse Service, Mel-
bourne. .. .J.S.It.: A husband and wife travelling
together should have no difficulty, if solvent, in
obtaining a passport. .. .West Coaster: (1) Creosote
for joists, plates, rafters, pillars, battens and other
timber where the discoloration doesn’t matter. It
can be applied by brush or spray. For furniture and
interior fittings use a mixture of creosote and kero-
sene, using creosote in the highest percentage that
can be employed without staining the wood. One part
of creosote to eight parts of kerosene leaves practically
no stain on the lightest-colored timbers. The Aus-
tralian Gaslight Co., Sydney, puts up a commercial
creosote suitable for the purpose. (2) Get “Wood
Borers,” by T. C. Roughley and M. B. Welch (Tech-
nological Museum Bulletin No. 8), obtainable from
the Government Printer, Phillip-street, Sydney....
W.J.W.: (1) A small horse. (2) Galloway ponies
take their name from the Scottish town where they
were first bred. They are also called “garrons” or
“garrans.” (3) Since 1894 the Pony Club of Sydney
has allowed animals 15.0 hands and under to compete
in its racing events; but agricultural societies
usually make the limit 14.2 hands. .. .J.W.C.: Sales
some time ago at £4O; they might fetch about
that now, but market very limited. .. .G.C.C.: You
cannot learn to fly by post. .. .J.A.H.: Suggest Bib-
beiduke (“Big look-out”), Cobbedah (“Place on a
hill”), Cooloongatta (“Good look-out”), Wollumai
(“Look-out”), Yerrah (“Hiding-place”), Yuruga
(“Extensive view”)... .Smoker: The best method
of pipe cleaning is to scrape away the caking of the
bowl and then thoroughly clean the stem with three
or four feathers soaked in benzine—not petrol. Then
lay the pipe in a dry but not sunny spot for a
few hours. .. .G.E.H.: Cannot trace any Sydney firm
handling the chaffcutter mentioned. The Eagle and
Globe Steel Co., Ltd., 379 Kent-street, Sydney, could
make new knives if you could supply a pattern....
W.D.: A method of storing Jerusalem artichokes
was given in the Service Page (B. 8/8/’2B) .... J.R.:
Pitman’s “Book-keeping Simplified” (4s. 6d.), ob-
tainable from Angus and Robertson, Sydney....
8.M.: All oversea passenger liners carry a number
of stewardesses in their complement and also a
surgeon. The necessity for employing trained
nurses does not arise... .J.C.H.: (1) No objection
is taken to hand-written contributions. (2) Not in
the least. (3) Yes.... W.C.G.: (1) See “Education
in Africa” (Philps Stokes Fund, New York), reports
on native education issued by the Fijian Govern-
ment, and reports presented by the Mandated Terri-
tory of New Guinea to the League of Nations. (2)
Government Anthropologist Williams, of Port Mores-
by, has a report on native education in Papua now
in the hands of the Papuan Government Printer.
(3) The Queensland Education Department will
supply you with information concerning the educa-
tion of natives in Torres Strait... .M.E.K.: (1) V.
B. Trapp and Co., 31 Queen-street, Melbourne. (2)
Yes. (3) It is fire-resisting. (4) They won’t eat
it, but will gnaw their way through it if it stands
in their way....Quien Sabe: (1) Larger valve
ports; an increase in compression, and aluminium
pistons. (2) The motor is quieter and more powerful
than the previous m0de1.... DIS.: Newspapers pub-
lished in N.S.W. are prohibited by law from printing
information concerning sweep consultations con-
ducted outside the State... .J.S. D.: Write to Bra-
bant and Co., Charlotte-street, Brisbane, for their
pamphlet on the subject.... (Many others mailed.)


BLACK & WHITE
1
vm w j
VM n
M-h: •
m
>t 1
>.y»
■
■fW
M' i
mi.
»>
m~ m
wmm
m
M
&§
£
Sf#
St®
Mil
..
SCOTCH WHISKY
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION OF THE COMMONWEALTH CUSTOMS.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.


u
U.
i mg ng,
: I mm. s*'~' "jriWlhN tf’"Jy !ri ii
by.
'•*.
\m\
\ ]
i
-V- '; .i
•~-Tj
>.-:• :
. M
U
KO IO, : i <
“Its Quality Never Changes.”
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
A BANK ACCOUNT
gives you power and safety. Apart from its positive stimulation
of the sense of Thrift, a Bank Account simplifies your operations
and widens their scope. In or outf of business hours, it facilitates
your transactions and surrounds all your dealings with dignity,
impressive on your clients and associates.
A Cheque Account is a record of payments, practically a
Book-keeping System in itself.
Additionally it introduces, to your service, the innumerable
banking advantages and facilities that a modern banking institution
provides.
Commonwealth lank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
SMOKE-OH!
Doctors make their money not so much
by skill as by patients.
* *
“No news is good news,” said the man as
he picked up a Saturday First Edition.
* *
A man is as old as he feels; a woman as
old as she feels inclined to tell you.
* *
“Travel broadens you,” says an advertise-
ment. If we do it during! the rush hours,
we find that it flattens us.
* *
According to a globe-trotter, the Americans
call collar-studs “buttons.”* But, then,
Americans are pretty poor swearers.
* *
Is it not a sobering thought, gentle reader,
that you may be perusing these lines 10
years hence in a dentist’s waiting-room?
* *
“The Princess of Wales Stakes,” reports
a newspaper, “was won by Tourist.” Good
MISINFORMED.
“You know, boys, I came hundreds of miles to see your harbor!”
“Someone was pullin’ your leg, Mister—it doesn’t belong to us.”
Heavens! Does this mean he has been
caught at last, and by a foreign visitor?
* *
Newspaper heading: “Perth Now Has its
Razor Slasher.” Usually it’s the victim who
goes West.
The most absent-minded person we have
heard of lately was the flapper who held
up her skirt to dodge a puddle.
THIS WEEK’S FAIRY STORY.
The manager came before the curtain at
the end of the play and said : “Ladies and
gentlemen, I am withdrawing this piece
to-night, not on account of
‘bad weather’ or ‘prior
arrangements,” but simply
because I agree with those
who have stayed away—
that it isn’t worth seeing.
* *
The spinster awoke in
the middle of the night to
find a burglar right near the
bed. She neither fainted
nor screamed; she seemed
pleased. Pointing to a
chair, she politely said,
“Sit down, I want to talk
to you.” The burglar
obeyed. An hour later the
telephone at police head-
quarters jingled frantically,
and a voice of anguish
spoke. “There’s a burglar
in 23 Mary-street. Send
the police at once, and
quick!” “All right,” an-
swered headquarters. “Is
that Miss speaking V”
“No,” came the still an-
guished voice, “this is the
burglar.”
*{•
“0.W.W.”: Mrs. Bogey
saw young Honi stealing
from her clothes-line, and
she ran over and informed
Honi, sen., that his brown brat had stolen
Bogey’s plus-fours. “Py kori!” exclaimed
the surprised Honi; “t’at te first time he
pinch te sum-pook in his prurry rife.”
* *
Her pretty hand attracted me,
So small and yet so strong;
A lucky fellow he would he
To hold that hand for long;
One diamond alone had she
To aid its charms and graces;
And yet a winning hand you see,
She held the whole four aces!
N.s.w. Erm.
* *
The little man hurried into the hospital,
anxiety on his face.
“My wife did not keep an appointment
to meet he,” he
said, “and I be-
lieve that a woman
answering her de-
scription was in-
jured in a motor
accident and
brought here.”
“A woman was
admitted three
hours ago,” he was
told, “but she
hasn’t spoken
yet.”
The little man
turned to leave.
“That’s not my
wife,” he said, re-
flectively.
* *
In view of the
proposed signing
m Paris of a pact
for the outlawry
of war, local razor-
gangs wish it to be
known that busi-
ness will he car-
ried on as usual.
* *
The reason for
charging fees at
the Acton (Can-
berra) golf links,
where play has
been free, is stated
to be the encour-
agement of golf.
That’s right—just
as when motorists
are fined for leav-
ing their cars in
the streets it is to
encourage them to
keep on motoring.
The announcement that a Fencing Club is
to be formed in Sydney has, we learn, brought
an application for membership from Bill
Smith, who claims to be the champion
of Woop Woop.
An English musician predicts that con-
certs will soon be abolished and all music
will be broadcast. Well, saxophonists ought
to feel safer then.
If a flapper’s complexion does go to pot
nowadays, it must be admitted that that’s
where it came from.
COULDN’T BE POSITIVELY RUDE.
“Yes, but-if you dislike him as much as you say you do,
why do you let him kiss you?”
“Oh well, I’ve got to be ORDINARILY polite to him.”
A scheme is mooted to fit every telephone
booth with a burglar alarm that will ring
the exchange when the box is being inter-
fered with. Well, if the alarm is answered
as ’phone calls are
* *
Mary vamped a little lamb,
His fleece as white as snow;
And when she’d shorn her little lamb —
Why, then she let him go.
* *
An imitation tea is said to be the very
latest idea. We don’t agree. We’ve been
drinking it for years.
* *
It is suggested that, in view of the time
most of them are expected to be worn nowa-
days, wedding rings might be made of some
material softer than gold—say, butter.
* *
Customer (waiting his order in a fish
cafe) : “Hi, waiter, you’re a deuce of a time
getting that snapper. What bait are you
using?”
V *
In Melbourne last week, the driver of a
motor-hearse was fined for dangerous driv-
ing. Serve him right—trying to cut out the
middleman!
A *TOAST.
(Mother to Daughter.)
“Hwe’s to you, as young as you are;
And to me, as old as I am.
For as young as you are and as old as I am
I look as young as you are
As old as I am.”
* *
There are degrees in dams, but the
Amsterdam, from the Australian sportsman’s
point of view, is the damdest.
THE HOME-COMING.
Grimly he packed his bag. He had had
enough of coming home to a cheerless house,
of eating bad food, and yet being expected
to pay for the dresses, shingles, tea gadding.-;
and what-nots that his butterfly wife needed
to make her life happy.
Wives! They were all alike! Never
h thought for the home-life and mending
socks by the fire. He would go back to his
mother.
As he neared the.j)ld homestead, remorse
came over him that he had neglected the
dear old lady so long; but he knew he was
still her favorite. And her cooking! Her
pies and good old baked dinners again ! His
eagerness made his walk quicker.
In the hall he called, “Mum—Mu-um!”
No answer. In all the rooms only silence
met him. In the kitchen there were only
unwashed dishes and a burnt-out fire. On
the table was a note. He took it up and
read:
“Dear Dad, —Wash up these things. I’ve
gone for a shingle, and then on to an after-
noon at the Trocadero. Won’t be home for
tea, as I’m going to the Palais. Don’t
forget the milk-can and the cat.—Mum.”
You can never kiss a girl unexpectedly;
the best you can do is to kiss her a little
sooner than she expected.
* *
Every woman, listens to her husband if he
does his talking in his sleep.
* ¥
When a householder in Hampstead (Eng.)
woke up to find a burglar in the room, he
grappled with him, and in the course of the
battle threw his wig at him. In fact, fought
him with might and mane.
* *
“In her home a woman is queen,” says
the Sydney Sun. Her husband feels her
rein, anyway.
* •¥
Old Mister Mnffct
Sat on a tuffet
As busy as busy could be,
When up came his wife —
You couldn’t say “Knife!”
Ere a fairy flew up from his knee!
NOVELISTS—AN IDEA FREE!
Dear Bulletin, —I have a plot for the Great
Australian Novel, which I am unable to write
owing to pressure of ploughing; so I am
giving it away free.
Bill Smith is a native of the State of
Queenstralia, but decides to go to Westvics-
land. He wishes to do so because award
rates for work are better there, or because
award rates for loafing are better there, or
because he’s married and divorce is easier
obtained there, or because he’s divorced and
marriage is easier obtained there, or for other
similar reasons. (The writer need not bind
himself at all —he can use the lot.) He in-
tended to travel by boat, but a barmaid in
Smelney protracted her affection for a ship’s
fireman unduly, with the result that the
whole system of mari (some)'time transport
is stopped. He travels by train. Although the
porters on every station speak the same
adjectival language, he has to change trains
two or three times.
He arrives and gets used to the different
atmosbeer, customers and immorality, and
takes' a stroll along the Westvicsland-Wale-
storian boundary fence. Somebody on the
other side calls him a — — Westvicsland
, so lie shoots him dead.
Walestorian authorities then say they want
B. Smith for the purpose of scragging him.
Westvicslanders say the trigger was pulled in
Westvicsland.
Of all the rest of Australia (2,974,581
square miles) the Federal Capital Territory
(912 square miles) is alone undisturbed. Its
inhabitants go on with their usual occupa-
tion (according to season) of either catch-
ing flies and sharpening pencils or stoking
fires and sharpening pencils. A touch of
the supernatural might be introduced by a
composite ghost of Tasman, Dampier and
HIS CONSOLATION PRIZE
MEEKLY: "I'll never be without a typist
again, Brown!
BROWN: "But you've got no use for a
typist!'
MEEKLY: "No, but it's such a relief to feel
that there's one woman I can diclale
to."
Cook stroking its beard and remarking, “I
thought it was all one land.”
I cannot think of a proper finale as yet,
but am going to read a Russian novel or
two after I finish the ploughing.
Yours, for the encouragement of litera-
ture,
Orsen Gig.
SPRING!
The sun is warmer, growing,
And the girls are daily shotting
More and more hare skin,
And wearing thinner things.
Spring's
Coming in.
Giuseppi Monnalisa
Has repaired the ice-cream freezer;
Re-lined the soft-drink hin.
A choir within him sings:
“Spring's
Coming in.”
The birds have started wooing,
Their hilling and their cooing
Fills all the hush with din.
The skeeters hone their stings.
Spring’s
Coming in.
The poets, too, are on it,
They arc penning ode and sonnet
Though the theme’s worn thin.
My muse flaps stumpy wings.
Spring’s
Coming in.
N.s.w.
HYRAM.


V. g |§g^
60,000
BEALE PIANOS
have been produced in
these Factories and are
notv in use in Australian
Homes
3»
SUM
!KC“wyt
sra
m
R - ■;.
m
I'm. St
L S \
Scar
ea
:,v '
WSS&I
J *1
1 J
;4
■ v .
1 3
3
r
<1 j ?r '
iVJc
wservNk
B S
m ;
H J
P 50"
i Vo*
iifi
n
ps> z
.. r.
j
mSe
i ■■■■■
-
She Largest Piano Factory
in the British Empire
e
HIRTY-THREE years ago the founda-
tions of the Beale Piano Industry were
digged—how deeply and how well
the present writing tells. In the face
of early difficulties, stubborn obstacles
and a bitter and unrelenting foreign
competition, the little factory of 1895 has grown
to be the largest in the British Empire. To-day
the factory covers 1 0 acres of ground. The two
large buildings alone have each a floor space of
43,200 square feet. Already the output has passed
60,000 instruments.
The Beale Factory makes more component parts of the piano than has ever
been attempted by any piano manufacturer anywhere.
It shows the largest proportional production of Players of any factory in
the world.
It builds more Player-Pianos each week than any three European factories
combined.
The acorn of 33 years ago is become the great and
flourishing oak of 1928. No other metaphor can
be so true. The oak is typical of British integrity,
British sturdiness and British fair-dealing. It
symbolises an unswerving honesty of purpose and
practice—the honoring of promises, the discharge
of obligations, and a deep and constant sensibility
of the rights and interests of all those who trust
its pledged word.
The reasons for the remarkable expansion of the
Beale Factory can be expressed in a phrase—the
constant betterment of the Beale Piano. Given
the finest materials that the world produces; a
carefully trained and conscientious staff; an ever-
widening experience of Australian and high tropi-
cal conditions, and a rigid adherence to an exalted
standard of quality, the Beale Piano necessarily
results.
Other makes of piano, though of identical type and
model, vary greatly one from another. On the other
foand there is an extraordinary “family likeness”
present in all Beale pianos. Any Beale piano will be
found to possess all the essential qualities of its
type mates, full and undiminished. This remarkable
and highly desirable similarity, which insures an
absolute uniformity of tone-scale, is possible only
because all component parts are manufactured in
one factory, under one supervision, and are built
into a homogeneous and unvarying whole.
Where parts are purchased from separate manu-
facturers and merely put together in an assem-
bling factory, no such result is attainable.
Jl Real Guarantee—2s Years.
Because the Beale piano is “all Beale” it is
guaranteed for at least 25 years. And the Beale
Factory, with over £750,000 capital behind it,
exists in your own country, at your own doors,
always ready to honor that guarantee.
Call or write for descriptive literature. The easiest of terms
can be arranged. Old Pianos taken in part payment.
r&aai
,
COMPANY
I >4 I T E D
Showrooms <
340 George Street, Sydney
Head Office and Factories!
41-47 Trafalgar Street, Annandal*
BRANCHES: New South Wales: Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle, Wollongong. Victoria:
Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania: Maples, Hobart and Launceston. South
Australia: Savery’s Pianos, Ltd., Adelaide. Western Australia: Thomson’s Ltd. Queens-
land: G. J. Grice, Ltd., 90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane; Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhamp-
ton, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
3
IXJ
[ll


FAME!!
QN merit alone I was selected to supply the
White Trousers for the visiting West Indies
Cricket Team in 1923. In 1926 the Australians
were wearing clothes made by me; also the
New Zealanders in 1927. The West Indian
team playing in Britain this year are wearing
kit exclusively supplied by me.
These celebrated teams are naturally fastidi-
ous over the cut and quality of their clothes.
Are you?
I have been in business now for 25 years and
my Australian clientele is growing rapidly, as
are the number of repeat orders I receive.
The cloth I use is made by the most reputable
manufacturers from the finest Australian Tops.
The cutters I employ are “live” men with
wide experience of British and Colonial tailor-
ing, and the clothes they make are guaranteed
to give satisfaction.
My prices are based on cash payments only,
Lounge Suits, for instance, costing from 7
to 10 guineas.
W. G. JENNINGS,
119 Newgate Street, London, E.C.I.
LIQUEUR
The Whisky for Connoisseur?
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow
Shipped by
VVM. GRANT & SONS, LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm of Scotch Whisky Distillers.
MAN NEWS
“WILD WEST’
A Qreat Big Wide Leaf Hat
to Wear between Sunrise
and Sunset.
Pure Fur Felt; leaf
wide will
not sag; High Crown,
will stand all weathers.
30/-
Post Free
Mail to Desk “5.8.” State Size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LTD.
In 2 ueen Street, Brisbane.
Poverty
Point
“Cauboy”: Talking of stage resource. In
a recent play in Melbourne one of the charac-
ters had to go to a bookcase, extract a
volume and read from it. The usual device
of a painted library containing two or three
real books was used, but when the actor
strode over and pulled at one of the genuine
articles it came half an inch and then stoutly
resisted all further effort. He hastily
grasped a second and a third with the same
result. It was discovered later that some
wag had secured them by neatly boring holes
through the covers and passing a stout cord
through them. In the meantime, however,
something had to be done, so the tragediau
stalked back, remarking, “Strange! The
book I want is not there. No matter —I can
quote from memory!”
“Mick Q.” : The earth which some picture
people have brought from Ireland to help
boost “Mother Machree” is not the first
that has come here from the Ould Sod.
An eccentric old politicial prisoner named
Henry Hayes had a number of tons of Irish
earth shipped from County Cork when Gov-
ernor Brisbane had control in N.S.W. He
had trenches dug around his home at Vau-
cluse, which was infested with snakes, and on
one St. Patrick’s Day he filled the trenches
with the charmed soil, which “no snake would
dare cross.” Years afterwards, when the
Wentworths owned the house, it was noticed
that no reptiles were ever seen within the
enclosure, which seems to contradict the idea
that the rum in those days was pretty good.
“Cine Ma”: A recent experience of Hoyt’s
Theatres shows how carefully Hollywood
looks after its gross world monopoly. The
Australian firm a few weeks ago signed a
contract for £lOO,OOO worth of British pic-
tures, since when it has shown a tendency
to sandwich in an occasional British film
between the torrent of American mush. The
reply of the American interests to this
threat was to stop the supply of Holly-
wooden drama to Hoyt’s circuit. American
celluloid is still the mainstay of Hoyt’s pro-
grammes because neither the local nor Brit-
ish producers are yet in a position to fill a
whole evening, not to mention that with
the average movie audience Hollywood has
become a habit, like three meals a day. So
the firm was obliged to get round the boy-
cott somehow, which it did by ordering the
pictures it wanted direct through its N’York
branch.
“Has-Been”: How the publicity-man can
put it over! Bill Ayr’s Bush Players at the
Melbourne Palace were trumpeted as Ben
Fuller’s wonderful discovery; Ben’s know-
ing eye had recognised the real thing,
dramatic art, crude but sincere, and the poor,
untamed out-back mummers were to strut
on a real stage at last. What the publicity
man forgot to mention was that Bill Ayr
is the lineal successor of Bohemian Cole,
and has played in Melbourne in scores of
thrillers. Also that he was Sir Ben’s busi-
ness manager at the Palace a few years
back. Also that most of the players are old
hands, and when Ben discovered them
they were headed by Bob Inman, the Shak-
spearean actor who has played in all the
capital cities. Bob is recuperating in Sydney
from an operation, but his daughter Adele is
with the show. She is another bush discovery,
but she played with Nellie Stewart last
year in Sydney and Melbourne.
“Adam Ant” : Those cartridges stuffed with
soap or candlegrease, mentioned lately in
The Bulletin, are always dangerous on
the stage. Alfred Dampier, the most reckless
stage shooter there ever was, used to cut neat,
discs out of his stage troopers’ legs with
painful frequency in “Robbery Under Arms.”
He liberally peppered me in “A Transvaal
Heroine,” I remember, and I’ve seen George
Buller’s legs bleeding from the old man’s
sharpshooting. Yet Dampier was the gent-
lest and kindest of mummers in every other
respect.
“Antique Antic”: I saw Hilda Spong at
the Sydney Royal in 1894, when three acro-
bats made a human bridge—the “span of
life,” in fact —across a very realistic cha3m,
and the lovely Hilda walked across to escape
from her villainous pursuers. The feat of
the acrobats set Sydney talking, until George
Itignold, at His Majesty’s, had a chasm bridged
by four acrobats. When the heroine had
crossed safely this human bridge miracu-
lously nose in the air rigidly, till it stood
perpendicularly on the brink of the precipice.
Rignold’s acrobats, like Holt’s, were sus-
tained by “invisible” piano wires. Holt
reckoned that he had been given a dirty deal
by his rival.
“F.S.” : Melbourne musicians are a bright,
imaginative lot. At the job of giving the
public a lead in matters artistic they are
about as inspiring as a smoky chimney.
The latest project is to collect for a memo-
rial to Alberto Zelman. Zelman was a fine,
sensitive musician, of lively personality, one
who did more than anyone else to awaken
l’aris-by-the-Yarra to the importance of the
harmonious Muse. He certainly should have
a memorial, but the form it is to take, an
endowment for cots at the Children’s Hospi-
tal, is almost facetious in its apologetic pro-
“ANDREA CHENIER” AT SYDNEY MAJESTY’S.
Andrea Chenier (Francesco Merli) on trial at the Tribunal oj Public Safety. Gerard
(Apollo Granforte) charges him with being a traitor to the Revolution.
siness. A statue, a musical scholarship or
an annual festival of music at popular prices
in the Town Hall would do something to
keep Alberto’s memory green and help carry
on the ideals he stood for. The cots (which,
if they are needed, will be provided any-
how) only emphasise the lack of confidence
the. musicians have in the importance of
their art in a materialistic world.
„ ~ , , _ , „ .
M.G.S. : Give em muck. Its all they
can understand, is a succinct statement of
every concert artist’s credo. Virtuosi of the
voice, pianoforte and violin invariably devote
the major portion of their programmes to what
is, comparatively speaking, “muck.” If it isn’t
to their hearers, it is to them. The poor
devils, having found something a success, have
to go on playing it for the rest of their
careers. Eight years ago I heard Moisei-
witsch play a Chopin fragment about a
butterfly, and the other night I heard him
repeat it. In between he has probably
played it a thousand times, with appropriate
feeling. It is a wonder he doesn’t fall asleep
m tba mirldlp nf it Tf n eortnon on the
SSi?^a?STS New'*"York
and from New York to Melbourne with a
iron hnttprflv wpi° , hin2 r half a hnnrlrpfl-
weilht chMned to Ms anklf dr ® d
weijit chained to his ankle.
“Guy Fane” : It is to H. Hitchcock, Vic-
torian M.L.C., that John Brownlee owes the
start that has taken him to the heights in
opera. Hitchcock saw the young singer s
promise and about five jears ago took lnm
to Europe and had lnm trained, paying all
his expenses.
“P.” : Conductor Beuno Scherek, who died
in Melbourne the other day, took to the stage
at seven years of age in Poland, where he
was born. As a child performer he went
through a string of concerts in Europe be-
fore going to America. There he linked up
with the violinist Camillo Urso, with whom
he toured U.S.A., South America and South
Africa before they came to Australia. He
married a Dunedin (Maoriland) girl, Miss
Tewsley, who had a reputation thereabout
as a pianist at the time.
“Jacques”: Fatty Arbuckle is to face a
Judge again, this time in the Divorce Court.
His wife is claiming release on account of
Roscoe being “vicious, cruel, morose and
nagging.”
“Hamer”: That sturdy battler for Aus-
tralian Rules footbrawl in Sydney, E. W.
Butler, who has seen his last goal kicked,
had theatrical affiliations also. Butler’s
Hall, at the back of his estate and news-
agency at the corner of William and Palmer
streets, was a great place for the rehearsals
of theatrical companies plotting descents on
the country, and was not despised by shows
waiting for a city theatre. Most of the
mummers whose memories are kept green
did a little bit of rehearsing there.
“Ibn el Issar”: The report of the Indian
Cinema Commission, which has been inquir-
ing into the censorship and the question of
preferential treatment to British films in
India, has decided against the latter sugges-
tion. Proposals favored are financial aid to
local producers, a compulsory quota of
Indian films and a grant of scholarships for
the study of film-making methods in other
countries. Though few outside know it,
India has evolved quite a flourishing home-
made film industry, as reference to the
advertising columns of the native press
shows. The films, mostly built on the heroic
legends in which Indian literature is so rich,
are intended entirely for native audiences.
Many of them are of inordinate length and
are crudely produced, yet they appeal even
to the European, while their native follow-
ing is even more persistent than that which
wallows in the baser productions of Ilolly-
wood with which the country’s general
cinemas are flooded. The Commission recoin-
mends the creation of a Government cinema
department and a central censor board to
deal with these last and others of the same
sort.
“Cine Ma”: The Fox organisation, of
whicb gtanley Crick j the Australian tai
, , ~ „ ,
pan, proposes to be the pioneer of regular
speaking-film shows in this country. Eight
. , ~ , , , . , f.
J;. I®’ 1 ®’ V s to f i ia y e elaborate mstalla-
t’° b and the eftect on film fans, when the
• wear ® make an mterest-
*n£.„St,ll(jy' ne .^ on< lersI ers whether the pro-
rS t-n IUV u C( l nsit * er what type of audi-
, f ™ ovies . ] ias created The
same
Li imwlTm! 0 .! nfo-^r 6 a ? pe£d
y f t °nl’ 1 ?om b^ in fv turi i or t u e w°l°
™ a kes absolutely
T 0( pi!;..ft ” nttm! 1 ' 2 iatelllgence - ? hava
n , a - n , d
’: , K ? JSt as muc } kl , ck
out of a Hollywood drama as any Anglo-
tT d job of work
so muc h take away from the
emotional enjoyment of the theme. It is
my firm oonvict i on that the speaking-film
drama will drive away the present patrons
of the movies, and won’t attract a fresh lot.
“C. 8.”: Melbourne Repertory Society’s
production of Ibsen ’ s “An Enemy of the
,p eop i e ” ran f or s j x nights and made a small
pro fik Why shouldn’t a professional com-
pany j ikft the Vanbrugh-Boucicaults or the
Bannermans try it and make a good profit?
The managerial retort will be, of course, that
the box-office won’t stand it. Well, the
box-office doesn’t seem to get on too well with
the stuff these entrepreneurs are engaged
with. Boucicault has been experimenting for
years with the quasi-serious drama with very
in-and-out results. Some of his enterprises,
such as that painful literary lapse, Barries
“Mary Rose,” have flopped dismally. In
his present Melbourne season he has only
dared venture his “popular” successes for a
fortnight at a time, and even then they
haven’t been over-populated. Nor did the
public rush to see Margaret Bannermans
revival of an old-time melodrama. Even as
played by amateurs, “An Enemy of the
People” has its dramatic moments. With
Boucicault as Aslaksen, McKinnel as Dr.
Stockmann and Irene Vanbrugh as his wife
I tip the piece as a brief but profitable ven-
ture.
“Briton”: It was British Instructional
(not International) Films that made the
Taj Mahal picture (B. 8/8/’2B). The pic-
ture called “Shiraz” is the story of the
blind man of that name who designed that
tourist’s delight.
“Goldilocks”: Adelina Levey, the last of
the Levey sisters to remain hereabouts, in-
tends starting soon from Melbourne on an
elocuting tour. The lady was an active
organiser of soldiers’ concerts during the
war, and by special permission went to
France witli some entertainers. She has
spent the last six years in Bananaland, with
occasional outbreaks into recitals in Bris-
bane and the larger towns.
“D.W.”: Was there ever such a gathering
of stars in the one piece as in the pro-
duction of “The Merry Wives of Windsor
at London Her Majesty’s, when Falstan
was presented by Tree, Master Ford by
Oscar Asche, Sir Hugh by Courtice Pounds,
Mistress Page by Ellen Terry, and Mistress
Ford by Mrs. Kendal? Almost everyone in
the cast was a brilliant Thespian.
“Caisar’s Ghost”: The Auckland St.
James Theatre, built by the Fullers, who
are making a chain of showhouses in the
likeness of their Sydney original throughout
Australasia, has 300 seats more in its audi-
torium than the N.S.W. temple, and, like
it, runs through from street to street. The
name which is thus being spread over many
cities sprang from the Sydney theatre’s stand
opposite the St. James city railway station,
but the Fullers have a longer association
with the title; their first Sydney offices in
Phillip-street were in wliat used to be the
St. James Rectory.
“C. 8.”: Fannie Fowler, who died while
on a health trip to Sydney recently at 67,
reversed the usual career of the actress. She
comiUenced on the pro. stage and finished
on the amateur. This wasn’t through any
failure of her histrionic powers. Her per-
formance of Mum in Louis Esson’s “Dead
Timber” a couple of months ago was as
fine a bit of characterisation as was showing
anywhere at the time in Melbourne. A pre-
vious generation of playgoers knew her as
Ethel Adele, and saw her lead for Grattan
Riggs for years and, at her heights, play
Ophelia to the Hamlet of W. H. Leake. She
gave up the pro-boards to help her son,
Beresford Fowler, in his repertory efforts.
“L. de R.”: Melbourne’s celebrations of
the Schubert centenary are to take a prac-
tical form. A week of the composer's music
at the University, under Bernard Heinze’s
baton, will be devoted to establishing a
fund to help promising students of music.
Such a fund is badly needed. There is a
reasonable certainty that it will be used
to help only worth-while cases. The present
method is for a society dame to fasten on
to some possibly worthless protege and
beat up all the snobs to chant the prodigy’s
praises. A concert or two are given, the
critics, awed by the influential patroness,
voice their approval and the proposed genius
departs overseas, to be heard of no more.
If he or she subsequently starves in Loudon
the late patroness is apt to take but a
languid interest, being already busy with
another protege.
-^‘Hamfat”: In place of Hoyt’s De Luxe
Theatre in Sydney, a comfortable place as
it is and even grand according to the stan-
dards of a decade ago, the Plaza is to go up,
and will occupy not only the site of the pre-
sent theatre but the whole George-street front-
age between Central and Wilmot streets.
Value of the land is £250,000, and the build-
ing will lift the total cost to £600,000. The
Hoyts-Williamson combination intend it as
a place suitable for grand opera when
wanted for that purpose; normally it will be
a film-house, and a preference is mentioned
for British Empire products. If all pro-
posed theatres are built, Sydney will have a
great acreage under new showhouses. Wil-
liamson’s have a site in Castlereagh-street,
where the substitute for the Criterion, which
is doomed, is likely to go up. The people
who purchased several big lots at the corner
of Market and Castlereagh streets had a
theatre in mind, also; and there is the
theatre which Neil may or may not be
allowed to erect in Railway-square. An-
other spot mooted as a theatre site is in
Pitt-street, facing the commencement of the
railway ramp near the Hotel Sydney.
CHESTNUTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. , of the Tivoli Theatre, has reported the
loss of a ruby- and diamond-studded ring valued at
£5OO. He thinks the ring was picked from his
pocket in Swanston-street or that he dropped it
while playing golf.”
Long years ago, when I was young
And nigger minstrels flourished,
The simple comic songs they sung
My sense of humor nourished;
A gag about mamma-in-law
Would always bring a loud haw-haw.
Conundrums of an artless kind,
Buffoonery obtrusive,
Seemed wit to my unpolished mind
And raised the laugh effusive;
The clown who joked of women’s stays
At once a yell of joy could raise.
And now, when vau-de-ville’s the go
And burnt cork has been banished,
When “artistes” head the comic show,
Have all the old jokes vanished?
Brother, the old jokes never die,
We tolerate them with a sigh.
We still endure old maids, and twins,
And japes about the plumber,
The henpecked husband’s sozzled sins
Voiced by a red-nosed mummer;
But oldest and best joke of all’s
The diamond ring—that never palls.
VICTORIA.
NORBELL.


Buying your
own chains!
only do the prohibitionists want to nigger-
drive you into a permanent Sahara but they
suggest that the slaves should contribute over
£8,000,000 a year in extra taxation to pay for the
chains!
Consider the extra taxation which would
he inevitable if Prohibition came:—
Loss of Federal Revenue ..
Loss of State License Fees
£4,592,812
. 500,000
COMPENSATION:
Prohibitionists’ own estimate £20,000,000
“S.M. Herald’s 11 estimate 27,000,000
Annual Interest Bill more than
Annual Cost of attempted enforcement
1,000,000
2,000,000
Total
£8,092,812
Increased Income Tax or increased Land
Tax would be the only avenues open to
the Governments.
New South Wales Electors!
Vote AGAINST Prohibition
u
&
ss
Voting IS compulsory
Penalty £Z
The Liquor Trades Defence Union of N.S.W.


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,369,965
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. R. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E.;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER ; C. M. C. SHANNON.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 1 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. . . .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 374,197
Ordinary Shares . . . . .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,609,656
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS 'li'
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUiH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital 1,250,000
Paid Up Capital .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 970,000
£2,220,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,470,000
Also 115 Branches and Agencies in South Australia,
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.O.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
To be
of the
sure
look
inal
wi.
on
tli
or
name
WEED
On
every
hook
ALMOST impassable
i- roads are made nav-
igable for the truck or
bus equipped with WEED
TYRE CHAINS.
Weed Chains grip and
hold —they furnish the
traction necessary to take
one steadily through soft,
miry mud, sand or clay.
No truck or bus should
ever be without Weed
Chains. Keep them ready
for immediate use when
road conditions warrant.
Orderfromyourdealer.
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
1507
Shipping, etc.
An Unexcelled Chain of Ports
ICTURESQUE Auckland, favorite seaport of
A Northern Netv Zealand; sparkling Suva, glow-
ing like a jewel in its setting of tropical beauty; far-
famed Honolulu, where travellers bask in an endless
summer and a thousand novel sights; such is the
route from Sydney to Vancouver of Canadian -
Australasian Liners.
W A I
m
h
1 s ..
7.r\
i^h“\
•/ r
Comfort at Sea
Broad white decks, comfort-
able lounges, well-equipped
cabins, and an ever-appetis-
ing menu combine to make
sea travel by the palatial
Niagara or Aorangi a de-
lightful holiday trip.
Particulars from
UNION STEAM SHIP
COMPANY,
247 George Street, Sydney.
S.S. NIAGARA & AORANGI
urn
■
m
y>W:
1
lIS
m
m
s
r
Attractive Trips of from 3% to 7 Weeks.
Magnificent Scenery, Luxuriant Tropical Vegetation
and Quaint Surroundings.
Make a selection and book early for a most interesting
Holiday.
SOUTH SEA ISLAND CRUISES
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island', Norfolk Island and New Hebrides
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
(“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly Sailings from Melbourne and Sydney
by the “MARELLA” (7500 tons) and
“MALABAR” (5000 tons).
BURNS, PHILP &> COMPANY LIP.
SYDNEY AND BRANCH OFFICES
BANK OF
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .. ..
RESERVE LIABILITY ..
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Directors,
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
618 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP ------- - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,075,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,553,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. ’.JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.:
OWEN E. FRIEND; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, C.8.E.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYEURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchm Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOB MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
e
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no cargo for Mackay),
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
at Townsville for outports).
r
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets _to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerLiJi'
MagnlFioent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
HOJPMANN&COS
HAVANA CIGARS
IN THE FOLLOWING SIZES
Half Corona, £3/15/- per 100.
Samples 9d. each.
Threequarter Corona, £4/15/- per 100.
Samples 1/- each.
Full Corona, £7/10/- per 100.
Samples 1/ 6 each.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
AAMAR&S L TD
352 GEORGE S T SYDNEY
* AND BRANCHES*
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


Elegant — Efficient —Exact
@
'T'LIREE words which appropriately define
the craftsmanship that is ELGIN.
An ELGIN will engender your pride and
your trust alike, for rare artistry and fine
craftsmanship are welded into it.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
<S>lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
fats’ facade Mark
in the Watch Care
THRILLING HEALTH
THROUGH YEAST!
Half-Sick, Tired, Weak People Find That
Truly ‘‘Yeast is Life."
Probably no scientific discovery has
caused such attention as that of the im-
portance of vitamines in our food. Research
has shown that much of the prevalent ill-
health, “half-health,” pain and weakness is
due to the lack of these vital elements.
Many leading health specialists recommend
yeast, which is especially rich in energy-
and-health-giving vitamines. Good results
have been obtained by plain yeast, but in
no case do the results compare to those
obtained from Cream of Yeast, which is
the super-active yeast, made more valuable
by combination with other valuable
medicinal agents. Men and women who
have tried Cream of Yeast report a start-
lingly quick return to thrilling health and
vigor—headaches, indigestion, nervousness,
depression, tired feeling, gone in a few
minutes; sallow complexions enlivened to
healthy, glowing color; pimples and black-
heads cleared—all in quick time! Many
who were once forced to rely on Aspirins
to keep going now find Cream of Yeast
not only far superior, but actually cheaper,
results considered. Chemists say the won-
derful efficacy of Cream of Yeast, with its
surprisingly small cost, is converting thou-
sands.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
The Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South Australia,
and is Read by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation in
Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny of Net Sales
invited.
ALL THE NEWS AND ALL THE
ADVERTISEMENTS.
In 1927 average size of “THE ADVERTISER,”
26 pages of 8 columns (each 24J inch deep).
Space occupied by advertisements averaged
16§ pages daily, or a Total of
988,712 INCHES IN THE YEAR.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State ayances of
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, price lid.
Head Offices:
J. L. Bonython & Co.,
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. L. WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone MA 3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
ADDING MACHINES
The wonderful “Addac” weighs less than 71b.
Anyone can operate; just pull dqwn the dial.
Splendid for calculating. Suits the pocket,
too. £l6/10/-, on terms. Discount for cash.
Written Guarantee. Capacity with farthings,
£lO,OOO. Send for booklet.
ADDAC SERVICE CO. (Dept. B.),
1 BOND ST., SYDNEY. ’Phone 82279.
e
THE “WINTON”
PERFECT
STOCK SADDLE.
An Improved High-grade Stock Saddle, designed for
increased comfort to the rider. It has combined flap
and skirt sewn direct on to the seat, thus giving a
narrower non-chafing grip * and the pads being set well
up along the rider’s thighs give the greatest security
for rough-riding. The materials and workmanship are
first-class throughout, and it is fitted with folded girth,
bevelled leathers and solid nickel stirrups.
£l6/10/-
FREIGHT PAID FOR CASH WITH
ORDER TO ANY N.S.W. RAILWAY
STATION.
WRITE FOR OUR BIG SADDLERY CATALOGUE.
“K’BURRA” Stockwhips
Guaranteed Kangaroo
Leather Throughout.
WHIPS
Thongs.
12-plait ..
16-plait ..
20-plait ..
6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft.
.. 18/6 21/- 23/6 27/6
.. 21/6 24/6 27/6 31/6
.. 26/6 30/- 33/6 38/6
HANDLES TO MATCH: 16-plait, 17/-; 24-plait,
19/-; 32-plait, 22/-. Handles for 9ft. Thongs
are 1/6 extra for loading. Post Free for Cash.
WAITHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Digger 201”: Being too late for the
butchers’ shops in Stanthorpe (Q.), I tried
a store for some bully beef. There proved
to be only one tin left, and that bore the
trade-mark of Libby, U.S.A. Think of it,
in Queensland, the home, of cattle and meat-
works !
* * * *
“A.A.”: Sleepy Norfolk Island is waking
up and is in for a boom. Burns, Philp and
Co. are going to introduce the islanders to
tourists and to commerce. The Makambo
recently took to Sydney market' 2000 cases
of bananas, and the firm has acquired a
stoutly built, commodious stone building at
Kingston, dating from convict days, to serve
as its headquarters. Little local traders and
storekeepers are' naturally a bit perturbed.
* * * *
“Market Street”: Even the Eucharistic
Congress has not escaped the attention of
the fraudulent. Those in charge of the
COMING TO TERMS.
DAD ( to hotel clerk ): “I suppose ye knock
a few bob off if a man don’t use th’
lift — th’ flamin’ things make me sea-
sick!”
organisation have prepared an expensive
badge, possession of which admits the wearer
to all the Congress functions. This costs
a guinea, and is accompanied by a certifi-
cate of identity. Sydney has now been
flooded with an excellent imitation, sold at
a shilling, and a vigorous house-to-house
canvass has resulted in brisk sales. The
Congress organisers have issued warnings,
but by the time the ramp is made public
the mischief will mostly have been dorfe.
* * t- *
“Bill Ding”: There has been a material
reduction of lumber imports into Australia
during the last three months under review.
The Jan.-March quarter had figures very like
preceding ones, but the April-June one
showed only 18,751,843 super, feet, valued
at £252,419, less than half the quantity and
value of imports for the same period in 1927.
If this meant that the difference had been
made up by the consumption of home-grown
lumber there would be much more prosperity
about the bush sawmills than there is, but
the real explanation lies in diminished build-
ing operations and a general hesitancy to
extend until the winter’s promise is trans-
lated into truckloads of wheat.
Si! * * *
“Chevroford”: People with hire-purchase
motor-cars are having the time of their lives
in. the Victorian Mallee district, owing
to the Hogan Government’s Mora-
torium Act. Traders estimate that
there is £1,000,000-worth of Tizzies
in the drought area whose owners
or hirers have ceased • paying instal-
ments. Some of the owners have been
genuine sufferers by the drought, and
' some have not. One man took his-
family down to Melbourne in his t.-p.
vehicle (payments long overdue) for a
seaside holiday. One result of the
present situation is that traders refuse
to sell except for cash or on a signed
guarantee that the purchaser will not
invoke the Act to avoid his obligations.
Motor-traders anticipate that when
the moratorium is lifted in February hun-
dreds of cars will he handed back in a
generally worthless condition, and they will
be compelled to claim on the general assets
of the nser for arrears.
* * * *
The Mustard Club advertisements now
appearing in Australia created a sensation
when they flooded Britain lasj; year; they
seemed so irrelevant to any particular brand
of mustard. The explanation was that
Britain consumes practically only one brand,
so it was superfluous to specify its name.
The proprietors feared no foe, at home or
abroad, but they did find that people were
not eating mustard as of old; there was
marked apathy amongst mustard-buyers. The
whole object of the campaign, which was
highly successful, was to remind food-con-
sumers of the existence of mustard. A fea-
ture of it was that it was conceived and
directed not by one of the. usual publicity-
experts, but by a youthful University don
with no previous experience of the advertising
business.
* * * x
“Waranbini”: A butcher stated not long
ago that half the young women at the begin-
ning of their married life didn’t know how
to buy meat, and wasted half what they did
purchase through not knowing how to cook
it. It is a reminder that butchering is a
trade, and a knowledge of all the different
parts of a beast and the various cuts is
possessed by very few women who have not
had experience in a shop. Without some
such knowledge few can buy judiciously or
know what they are getting, but the only
way to gain it is by long and costly experi-
ence. There are plenty of cooking-classes,
but no place where a young woman can be
taught something about meat. I have seen
butchers palm off rib roasts for sirloin and
cuts off the top of the leg for rump steak.
Most people can tell prime from inferior
meat when they eat it, but in a shop where
it is all cut and made to look nice it is
another matter.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Vic. applegrowers have a
million and a quarter cases in cold store,
and the prospects of getting even a tithe of
this eaten before the next season are remote.
Can’t we cultivate a taste for cider? Unlike
the raw fruit, the drink improves with keep-
ing. It is comparatively easy to make in
the home, and a finer thirst quencher isn’t
known.
* * * *
“Esters”: Commonwealth Minister for
Markets Patterson recently used the fact
that the imports of Australian wines to
Britain fell to 50,000 gallons in May last,
as compared with 320,000 gallons in the pre-
vious May, as a text for the statement that
the wine-export industry in Australia was
falling off because iof lack of organisation
in marketing methods. The facts are that
a glut of wine on the British market reduced
the clearances from bond for the month in
question. The stiffest knock the industry
has got has been the reduction by the Fed-
eral Government of the wine bounty by
Is. 9d. a gallon, but, even so, for 1927-28
the export figures were 3,783,754 gallons,
the highest for years past.
* * * *
“Gooper”: A nor-’west (W.A.) store-
keeper friend of mine reluctantly accepted
10 Angora goats in payment of portion of
a bad debt. Hardly knowing where to keep
them, he finally despatched them in one of
his pearling luggers to an island off the
coast, and forgot all about them for 10 years.
When the Government inspector was making
a cruise looking for a suitable place for
lepers, he came across this island (a Govern-
ment possession) overrun with goats. After
much inquiry the owner of the beasts was
located and asked to remove them. Journey-
ing to the island he was amazed to find no
fewer than 2000 in the mob. He brought
in his luggers, and boatload after boatload
were taken to Singapore. His sale receipts
showed a net profit of one pound per head.
* * * #
“Tilburina T.” : Why not feather beds in-
stead of kapok (B. 8/8/’2B) ? I suspect that
“W.W.J.” would hardly ask this question
if he had ever made even a feather pillow.
I have. The job consists of picking over
the feathers, washing them, drying them
thoroughly in sun and air to “fluff” them
out, and finding a convenient place to
store them in. When there are (seem-
ingly) enough, you get all the family
in and strip every tiny feather stem, and
the bigger they are the harder it is. After
four or five hours’ stripping with all hands
mustered, with down from end to end of your
hair, clinging to your clothes, stopping your
mouth and nose and drifting under the door
to wander through the house —well, you will
no longer desire a feather pillow (let alone
bed) of your own manufacture.
# * * *
“Peiari” : The success of the recent inven-
tion for weaving coir into wool-bale or
bag material under tremendous pressure will
A FATAL CASE OF
N-NO-ING.
THUG: “You got no money,
eh?”
VICTIM: “N-no.”
THUG ( dreamily ): “Maybe you didn’t hear
about the cove with a bad memory who
died last week from a crack on the
jaw?”
come as good news to the cocoanut growers
of Papua and New Guinea, in which coun-
tries a lot of Australian money has been
sunk. Coir is the fibrous husk of the cocoa-
nut, and as far as the Australian adminis-
tered territories go is worthless to growers,
save as fuel for copra drying. It is the
most enduring of fabrics, and as the new
process has proved that it can be woven
smoother and freer from loose fibre than
jute, and can be produced at less cost than
jute fabrics, the invention should make coir
a valuable asset both to the Island planters
and to Australian industry. Huge quanti-
ties of jute wool-bales and wheat-bags are
annually imported from abroad, mostly from
India, where the fibre is extensively grown.
The spinning of coir yarns and the weaving
of them into fabrics would find employment
for many workers in Australia, while the
£5,000,000 that goes abroad every year to
pay for the imported article would remain
in Australia, with the coir-producing terri-
tories getting their share.


Up or down. Tough skins or tender. You
can rely on a “Valet” for the smoothest of
smooth shaves.
The secret is the sharpness of the blade—and
the reason of that sharpness is the
a device that is part and parcel of the razor.
Ten seconds a day without removing the blade
and you have an edge like new or better than
new. Not once but 50 or 60 times for 50 or 60
per fecit shaves.
“VALET”
Safety Razor
ThitUh/Vicudji.
No. 99 Set. Contains the
essentials for a perfect
“Valet” shave — razor,
three blades
and strop in
neat case
3/-
2.Het
“*Qr
VAtS
No. 55 Set. Contains
razor, three blades and
strop in hinged container.
In highly
p o l i shed
nickelled case,
8/6
Managing Agent* for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY. LTD., 181. CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
New Zealand Agents: VAN STAVEREN BROS, LTD., AUCKLAND. WELLINGTON and CHRISTCHURCH.
Il
Mil.
m
'rw’wil
) -i" ’ii,!
4
7
w
tmn
1
fin*
m
tik
Utti*
1
uu
9iBB
" ALWAYS USE _
I(YN<KH CMM "'
r
THE PERFECT
COMBINATION
Wonderful Patterns do not necessarily mean
good cartridges. Pressure, Velocity, etc.,
are equally essential. Scientific Loading
and Testing ensure that Eley and Kynoch
All-British Cartridges give the perfect
combination.
OBTAINABLE ALL GUNSMITHS
AND DEALERS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
rT
m
m?
&
m
e
286


NEW BROWNING F.N. 22CAL. RIFLE
DE LUXE MODEL
e
r
e
The greatest improvement in 22cal. Rifles yet produced by Browning F.N. Entirely new and
efficient type of bolt. Patent safety and automatic half cock. Large half-moon extractor, which
does away with the trouble of shells jamming in the breech. The “DE LUXE” Model has a 24m.
barrel fitted with an adjustable rear sight and bead front sight with protector. Checkered pistol
grip stock and fore-end. Perfect balance. Easily taken apart for carrying. Fires 22cal. short,
long and long-rifle cartridges. Accurate range with 22 long-rifle cartridges 200 yards.
DIRECT FACTORY REPRESENTATIVES:
r
35/- Post Free.
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
For They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
And so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
[l
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Epsom, Metropolitan and Derby candi-
dates were conspicuous at Rosehill on Satur-
day, and the crowd found the racing uncom-
monly interesting, especially as all the
winners, save one, were well backed, and it
was a beautiful early-spring day. With 41b.
more than his Epsom weight, which is Bst.
Gib., Reonui (5 to 4) made no mistake m
the first division of the Dundas Handicap,
a race won by Amounis prior to his Epsom
victory two years ago, and he ran the seven
furlongs in lmin. 25|sec. He had half a
length to spare at the finish from the Maori-
land three-year-old Raasay, a chestnut and
a good sort; Rionscup (33 to 1) also pleased
by running third.
For the second division Greenline was
favorite, but he was done with at six fur-
longs, though he had every chance. After the
race those who had backed him for the
Epsom, in which he has 9st. 41b., felt rather
sick, for he looked forward enough. Val-
paraiso (12 to 1), who was a very spare
customer last season but has filled out re-
markably, was in front nearly all the way,
and perhaps he is destined to go one better
in the Epsom than his brother Fuji San did
in 1926. However, he was being overtaken
at the finish by Jocelyn (8 to 1), the Metro-
politan favorite, who has furnished into a
very nice mare. Valparaiso is owned by
Walter T. Brunton and Jocelyn by John S.
Brunton—two good .horses and two good
sportsmen.
George Price, who trains Reonui and
Jocelyn, looked a worried little man after
the Granville Stakes in which The Dimmer
(2 to 1), another of his string, made hacks
of a big field, the English-bred Blue Star
(8 to 1) excepted. The Dimmer had been
beaten out of a place in a Maiden Handicap
the previous Saturday, and, hurt in its most
sensitive region, a section of the crowd
hooted lustily. It was a one-eyed demon-
stration, as the colt had obviously run greenly
in the Maiden Handicap, as indeed he did
in the Granville Stakes, though in this case
a good start and an extra furlong enabled
McCarten to straighten him up. By Spear-
head—After Glow, The Dimmer is a half-
brother to Epilogue, and races in Norman
Falkiner’s colors. He has 73t. in the Mel-
bourne Cup, for which he has been backed,
and no one who saw him win on Saturday
will deny him a chance. It was bad luck
for Tindall, who owns and trains Blue Star,
to strike something so good, especially as his
own horse’s form was fully exposed; but he
was consoled in the first division of the
Three and Four-Year-Old Handicap, in which
he threw in for a good win on Eugia (4 to 1).
“He may be a Ballymena, but he’s no
Limerick,” was the verdict about Roscrea
after the second division of the race for three-
and four-year-olds. Favorite at 2 to 1, Ros-
crea was second into the straight, but he did
not oblige his backers by coming on and
was beaten out of a place; Sion (5
to 1) won nicely from the improving
little Lord Romeo (14 to 1) and Roseal
(33 to 1), who’ finished together—Roseal
paid £l3 10s. 6d. on the 30s. tote. Roscrea
was not favorably handicapped—he was re-
ceiving only 21b. from Sion, a good horse
when he does his best —and perhaps he
would have fared better had he been given
time to settle down instead of being bustled
from the start. At all events, a failure in
a crowded six-furlongs race—there were 19
starters- —is nothing much to his discredit;
and the same applies to Scarlet’s neat son
Stalden, who was also backed.
Though he had 9st. 61b. (his Metropoli-
tan weight is Bst. 101 b.) Bacchus (5 io 4)
was too good for the lot he had to meet in
the August Handicap. It was a close finish
—Prince Colugo was only a neck away, and
Prime Don, Valhalla and Mills Bomb were
almost in line with the third horse, Eden
Hall —but Pike had a little in hand. If
he keeps right and the going is good Kelso s
horse will make the best of them travel in
the Metrop., and he may even be seen to
advantage in w.f.a. company. Kalloni (3
to 1), now owned by G. L. Scott, had the
easiest win of the day in the Parramatta
Mile; Bartle slowed him down almost to
half-pace and then he was five or six
lengths ahead of Lord Kennaquhair and
Resource. It’s rather a pity he wasn’t
nominated for the Epsom.
* * * *
With Limerick and Winalot booked to run
in the Warwick Stakes and Mollison in the
I-lobartville Stakes, the A.J.C. ought to have
a great crowd at its beautiful Warwick Farm
course on Saturday, especially as many
Epsom and Metropolitan fancies are en-
gaged in the Campbelltown and Spring Han-
CLOTHES AND THE MAN.
GERTIE: “I wish you wouldn’t wear that horrible check,
Henry. It makes you look just like a jockey.”
dicaps respectively. Track work indicates
that the three aristocrats are nearly at then-
top. Selections: —
Campbelltown Handicap: Royal Tune,
ne£t, Lord Romeo or Bravado.
Hobartville Stakes: Mollison; next, Ros-
crea.
Warwick Stakes: Limerick; next, Joce-
lvii.
Spring Handicap: Fondant or Bacchus
(same stable) ; next, Sharp Son.
Glenlee Handicap: Pigeon Pie or Lord
Romeo; next, Blue Star.
* * * *
The progressive Williamstown club staged
the first w.f.a. race of the season, the Under-
wood Stakes, on Saturday, and was rewarded
with a field of 11 and a capital race, to-
gether with a first-class attendance. Class
was represented by Spearfelt, but the dis-
tance —a mile —was too short for him, and
for Chariot likewise; neither, however, was
disgraced. Highland, the very useful High-
field gelding from Queensland, who has raced
in three States, was favorite at threes;
Lady Beth’s price was half a point longer,
and Translator, another travelled veteran,
had backing at fives.
Lady Beth’s jockey had drawn No. 2
marble, and he made the most of the advan-
tageous position; when half the distance had
been traversed the St. Anton mare was out
five lengths from Highland and Translator,
Spearfelt being last. But she is not quite
a miler, and Highland had her measure at
the distance, a length separating them at
the finish ; Translator was a length and a
quarter behind the mare. Clarion Call ran
promisingly and finished fourth; Spearfelt,
showing a flash of his old form, was next, in
front of Chariot. Highland, who was ridden
by Duncan, broke a course record, his time
being lmin. 39sec.
The Seaside Handicap, a six-furlong affair,
provided a most exciting finish, five horses
being almost in line as they flashed past the
judge. Bandoeng. (7 to 1), a Lucknow colt,
got the verdict by half a head from Byron
(12 to 1). And the Steeplechase was all
thrills, only two horses completing the rather
tricky course. Strath Blith (5 to 2) scored
rather luckily, Lynburn falling at the last
jump when seemingly “home and dry.” Bom-
bard was popularly supposed to be the bet
of the day for the August Handicap, and
went out at 10 to 9 on. He ran a good race,
but Frank Dempsey, cleverly shoving Beau
Geste (12 to 1) through on the rails, beat
Norman Falkiner’s horse and Suogla (15 to
1) —the judge could not separate this pair.
Then there were unkind remarks, as Beau
Geste had been unplaced in a Corinthian
affair at the Valley earlier in the week.
* sje 4c *
\
Steeplechasers from S. Aus. are regular,
and welcome, visitors to Randwick, but sel-
dom does a Sydneyside jumper find his way
to Adelaide. So Jurisprudence’s victory in
the A.R.C. Grand National is something
of an event. Well fancied,
though not at such a short
price on the machine as the
V.R.C. Grand National win-
ner Namera, Jurisprudence
gave a dashing exhibition
and won, pulling up, from
Bestman and Dez; Namera
was blocked by an unruly
police horse when making
his run, but could not have
beaten Jurisprudence. The
former Westralian jockey
Bracegirdle rode the winner,
whose div. on the £1 machine
was £7 15s. Binalong, a Sir
Dighton filly, won the De-
quetteville Stakes, the first
two-year-old race of the sea-
son for her sex. Serbury,
from the West, was backed
again for the Mayor’s Mile,
but ran very badly, and
there is now a revulsion of
feeling in favor of Winks,
who was disqualified for his
riding of the nag on the pre-
vious Saturday. Tirailleur,
a member of the Pistol tribe,
won.
:J: * ❖
“R. Volt”: The jockey
who was fined £lO for using
a battery on a horse at Rich-
mond (Vic.) was a crude
electrician. The apparatus
he used was a three-volt
dry cell connected through
an ignition coil capable of
boosting the e.m.f. up to 800
volts. The rider’s weight on
the saddle depressed a bell
push which brought the tor-
ment into operation and kept
it operating so long as he
was mounted. A simple
arrangement would have
been a switch enabling the
torturer to cut the current
in and out and probably to
avoid detection. As it was, the maddened
animal started rearing and plunging from the
moment the wastrel climbed aboard, and even
the most unimaginative racecourse cop could
scent the trouble.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Tommy Fairhall, conqueror of the Ameri-
can Larry Avera, was again in the lime-
light on Saturday night, when his long-post-
poned contest with Harry Mason, until re-
cently lightweight champion of Europe, came
off at the Sydney Stadium. Mason proved
himself a fine boxer, particularly clever in
defence, but he was overshadowed by Fair-
hall’s scientific and incessant offensive.
Tommy has a knack of picking his spots and
reaching them when he sets out to do so; and
he hits with all the splendid vigor of his toil-
developed manhood. “Clever” lefts and
“snappy” rights he simply ignores. The coal-
miner gave the Englishman 10$lb. (hi3_own
weight was 9st. and a fierce hiding
over the whole journey. He put Mason down
for the count of seven with a beautifully-
timed right smash on the ribs in the
very first round ; and he never left a round
in doubt thereafter, though Mason often had
the crowd —the biggest for weeks—on its
feet when his clever hitting momentarily sug-
gested that he was turning the tide. In the
last three seconds of the last round I* airhail
banged a splendid right to the chin, and
Mason sank to his knees, out to the world.
It was fully 20 seconds before he struggled
to his feet, and in the meantime the referee
had declared Fairhall the winner on points.
* # *
Ad Sautel (12st. 101 b.) continued on his
winning way at Melbourne on Saturday
night, defeating Clarence Eklund (same
weight) by his customary one fall to none.
The importance of the pair in the light-
heavyweight controversy caused a jamb on
the Dudley-street emporium; the'grapplers
dividend was £550 each. Frequently in the
early stages Ad had his man “all out, but
Clarrie’s defence was effective, especially m
the fourth round. Then Santel applied a
head scissors with such severity that blood
oozed from the victim’s mouth as lie strug-
gled to clear; a judiciously applied knuckle
in the ribs presently gained him his free-
dom. Ad exploited the Japanese leghold with
which he once subdued Peter Limutkin, but it
was his short-arm scissors that did the trick
in the sixth; Clarence struggled long,
but was forced to submit to the relentless
pressure. As is his custom, Ad thereupon
retired into his shell, and the score remained
unaltered.
Footbrawl
Victoria and South Aus., at Melbourne
C. G., provided one of the best and prettiest
games of the season for the 30,000 who wit-
nessed it. Marking excellently, quick in the
pick-up and with good system, the Crow-
eaters swung into their stride at once, and
soon had 4 goals to 1 on the board. Then
the Dark Blues got going. They kicked
straighter than the invaders, and when a
Cabbage Gardener was tackled or hemmed
in there was always a mate handy to
punch or kick the ball to. So they forged
ahead, till at half-time they had 4 goals
to the good. At lemon-time their lead was
29 points. In the last term the Croweaters
played splendidly. Goal by goal they crept
up, passing steadily to Ryan —8 goals was
his tally—till a few minutes from the end
the scores were, Vic. 15 goals, 15 behmds;
S.A., 14 goals, 15 behinds. Another goal
to South Aus. would repeat the Adelaide
record of June 16, and the crowd was on
tiptoe, cheering. But the Vies, had no
mind for a draw after boasting a 5-goal
lead, and determinedly worked the ball round
the stand wing till a goal and a behind
settled the issue—l 6-16 (112 points) to
14-15 (99 points). Of the visitors Ryan
aforesaid, Galliford, Whitehead, Riley and
Huie were best. Captain McGregor marked
magnificently, but his wondrously long kicks
lacked direction. Of the Vies., Chapman,
Stanbridge, Harris, Ribbis and Beckton shone
brightest; while Hyde, Hawthorn’s forward,
playing his first inter-State game, deserves a
line all to himself. He got 5 goals.
* * * *
A crowd of over 12,000 saw a fine exhi-
bition of the Australian code at Sydney
Showground, when Norwood and Port Adel-
aide met in a hard tussle, Norwood winning
by 94 (34-10) to 89 (13-11). Port had a
lead of 11 goals to 7 at the end of the third
quarter. Norwood came with a great rattle,
and right on time scores were level. Nor-
wood scored a final goal and rail out win-
ners, after having added 7 goals in the last
quarter. Dayman kicked 7 goals for the
losers, and Lill’s spectacular marking for
Norwood also caught the crowd’s fancy. It
is significant that there were only about
half as many spectators at the League
Rugby match on the neighboring Cricket
Ground, though it was the match of the day.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: Adelaide supporters of football
are perturbed over the fact that attendances
have fallen off heavily this year. Comparison
of 14 rounds of the competitions for two sea-
sons shows that -518,875 people attended the
games in 1927 and 438,170 in 1928. Higher
admission prices may account for the de-
cline—receipts were £20,157 and £20,683 re-
spectively—but another theory is that golf
is responsible, a great many people who used
to watch football having realised that it is
better to play a good game oneself than to
watch other people doing it.
* * * *
“Fitzcray” : “Running in wraps” has often
been alleged against football teams, but con-
victions are scarce. The Minyip (Vic.)
club has, however, been disqualified by the
Wimmera League for playing so gently
against Warracknabeal as to enable the lat-
ter to score the high quota of points neces-
sary to admit it to the district semi-finals;
Minyip’s share of the gates for the season
is to be given to the local hospital.
(Continued on page 37.)
A BAD RISK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Traces he bore of many a savage welt,
Not taps that in a friendly bout are
showered
But smashing buffets in hot anger dealt
By leg-o’-mutton fists, ungloved, hign-
powered.
One ear was permanently cauliflowered;
His nose was out of focus, you could see.
What was his job? I asked. He scowled
and lowered jf
And snapped morosely “Just a referee.
“But not,” I hazarded, “where boxers belt
For fame and purses generously
Though pug may batter pug, the umpire’s
pelt
Is unimperillcd, sacrosanct, embowered
In safety by his office. What a coward
To loose upon the judge a man would be !’
He shook his head impatiently and glow-
ered.
“No, not,” he growled, “a boxing referee.
He limped and groaned, and gingerly he felt
His ribs. Upon another line I scoured.
“Football,” I said, “such hurts has some-
times spelt.
Oft whistle-blowing arbiters, empowered
To watch lest human tigers be devoured
By fellow-tigers, for their lives must flee
Before a crowd by their decisions soured.
He muttered, “Not a football referee.”
Slowly he bared his forearm. Then he knelt
And raised his other trouser to the knee.
Teeth-marks I saw the hardest heart to melt.
“Wrestling,” he said, “is what I referee.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Even a short ride
will convince you
that the
perfected
Whippet
is "the most valuable car ever
offered for so little money”
There is an element of pleased
surprise in driving the WHIP-
PET for the first time that can-
not be fully expressed in words.
There has never been another
light car of its class that has given
the same feeling of fine car thrill.
And now you can buy it at an
unbelievably low price its
quality unchanged, its equip-
ment improved, its performance
proven by more than 200,000
owners in millions of miles of
driving.
Even a short ride in a WHIP-
PET will demonstrate the car's
remarkable qualities flashing
acceleration, great power on
hills or heavy roads, high speed
instantly and for a long distance,
with a sense of complete safety
inspired by its road-hugging
low-centre of gravity, and its
large, mechanical four-wheel
brakes. It offers easy riding,
convenient handling, easy park-
ing, unusual beauty of line and
colours—and above all—unpre-
cedented economy.
There are six handsome body
styles. Choose one of those now
on display in our showrooms
and let a trial drive convince
you of the superlative quality
and performance of this Over-
land Whippet.
m
</»
SI
1111
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED, 148 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY., LIMITED, 117-21 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
£• G. EAGER & SON, LIMITED, Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, Franklin Street, ADELAIDE.
ADAMS’ MOTORS, LIMITED, 442 Murray Street, PERTH.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LIMITED, 53-56 Bathurst Street, HOBART.
WILLYS
OVERLAND FINE MOTOR CARS


Jllli
IB EB
ill ■
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
/ HEW MEMBER
OF AN OLD FAMILY/
A worthy addition to a famous line of
Golf Balls, the new Henley “Black
Name” more than upholds the high
standard set by its predecessors. All
the good points of previous Henley
Balls, including the famous “Why Not”
and “Henley” Mesh Marking are em-
bodied and excelled in the new ball.
With its phenomenal accuracy, extreme
length and amazing toughness, the
Henley “Black Name" will set a new
and higher standard for Golf Balls.
W. T. HENLEY’S
TELEGRAPH WORKS CO., LTD.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane.
o
DO
o
o
Tboooo
00
n
n
a
ISSi
HEW LEV
PRICE 3/6
North Sydney and South Sydney provided
the most interesting Rugby League game on
Saturday. South’s pace told, and it was
points to 17 at the finish. St. George met
Glebe in a hard but not brilliant game at
the Cricket Ground ; scores were 22 to 10 in
St. George’s favor. University, battling for
a place in the semi-finals, downed Western
Suburbs by 15 to 12; Lindfield, of West,
was a casualty. The Balmain-Newtown
scramble saw the “Tigers” (!) on top lo
to Newtown’s 8.
* * * *
“Stoush”: Following on the ruffianly
affray at Dunedin disguised as a League foot-
ball Test match, the manager of the English
professionals explained that the incidents
objected to were “only a flash in the pan.
Well, that pan flashed in the team’s very
first match at Cootamundra, and went on
flashing in other parts of N.S.W., in Queens-
land and in Maoriland. Beyond being sent
off the field, nothing was ever done to the
offenders, one of whom figured in more than
one discreditable happening. Had this per-
son, for instance, been sent back to whence
he came, or had the Australian and Maori-
land authorities exercised their powers of
discpmlification, the trouble would have
ceased at once. Gate-considerations, how-
ever, forbade the administration of justice,
with the natural sequence that the profes-
sionals took increasing advantage of their
immunity.
The third Rugby League Test between the
Englishmen and M.L., played at Christ-
church on Saturday, proved a bitter dis-
appointment to most of the spectators, for
there was absolutely no bloodshed or any-
thing in the nature of even common assault.
The Englishmen won game and rubber by 6
to 5.
* * * *
“Swing the Boot”: The N.S.W. Rugby
League has delivered the finding expected or
it in connection with the recent Donnybrook
at Earl Park, when St. George and Balmain
met in frightful rivalry, as the poet sings.
It declares that the gentleman who had to
be carried off on a stretcher was not to
blame; that the nobleman accused of kicking
him while on the ground was also guiltless;
and that the violent assaults imputed to
several other persons were not committed by
them. The officials designated to control
what seems to have developed into an uncon-
trollable situation were also deemed to be of
the company of the angels. The spectators of
the exhibition, which has shaken the unstable
foundations of the League— they were the
culprits. I agree with the decision; it is
only what the crowd that continues to sup-
port the Rugby League game deserves.
* * * *
“Chiverton”: The Warwick (Q.) Rugby
League is no whit behind its brethren in
liveliness, and the lot of the referee in that
Arcadian locality is as unhappy as it usually
is elsewhere. One of the whistle-blowers
had occasion to order off a player for criti-
cising his rulings too luridly. The rest of
the side gathered round the official and re-
peated their mate’s comment, with addenda
of their own. They, too, were ordered off,
but declined to go, inviting the referee to
“eat that.” He solved the impasse by walk-
ing off himself.
* * * *
“Gate”: The trustees of the Sydney C. G.
announce that tenders will be received by
them for the lease of the ground during the
winter months. So passes the Rugby
League’s stranglehold on the famous arena.
Though the League will probably be the
highest tenderer, the trustees have stated
that dates must be allotted to other foot-
ball codes and to athletic bodies. The pro-
fessional body suggests that the trustees will
suffer in income by their action. This i 3
doubtful. The Rugby Union is fast over-
taking the League game in popular estima-
tion, and a great amount of revenue will
accrue from the visits of such teams as the
All Blacks, overseas Soccer sides and the
great Vic. and South Aus. exponents of the
Australian code. In the past these teams
have had to show their paces on secondary
arenas, while the great central ground, dedi-
cated to the uses of amateur sport only, has
been monopolised by unimportant local pro-
fessional clubs.
* * * *
The young N.S.W. Union side in Maori-
land made an auspicious start by beating
Auckland Province, 19 to B—four8 —four tries, a
penalty goal and a field goal to two tries
and a goal from a try. The visitors showed
sparkling football; Malcolm played the game
of his life behind the pack. Towers was as
dangerous as ever at inside centre, and
White, who is going to get a lot of tries on
the tour, recorded two for a start. The
Auckland match was considered by M.L.
judges a stiff test for the visitors, who had
to train to Auckland from Wellington after
disembarking earlier in the week.
* * # *
The closing stages of the Rugby Union
competition were followed by good crowds
on Saturday, in spite of the absence of
many of the stars. University, the only
team likely to be affected by results, settled
the matter by overcoming Manly, 14 to
9. Uni. will now meet Y.M.C.A. on Satur-
day, the result deciding the premiership.
St. George, still improving, got within a
point of Eastern Suburbs, scores being
22 in East’s favor. Dogged defence enabled
Glebe-Balmain to beat off a tough Randwick
attack, the Reds winning 11-8. Western
Suburbs drew 12-12 with their Northern
confreres, each side scoring two tries and
two penalty goals, a pretty even go.
$ * * *
“Stand Off” : A touring Maorilander who
witnessed several of the matches in South
Africa gave a Sydney interviewer his idea
of why the M.U. side had failed to come
up to expectations. He blamed the fact that
the All Blacks had to play under the old
rules as to kicking into touch and lining up
right on the side line, rules which still obtain
in Britain and South Africa but have been
for some time abandoned in Australia and
Maoriland. The South African tactics, for
the most part, consist of the forwards obtain-
ing possession and the backs kicking into
touch instead of attempting the familiar pass-
ing rushes, the process being continued after
each gain, with close forward play the main
objective. The Afrikanders certainly special-
ise in heavy forward play, but they showed
us in Sydney in 1921 that they have nothing
to learn about back work, as we understand
it. As to the old rules, the All Blacks had
to play them in Britain in 1924 and the
Waratahs last year, and neither side seems
to have suffered from any handicap in this
particular.
A CASE FOR THE DENTAL BOARD.
“Who’s that making a mess of his putts?”
“That’s Tuggem, the dentist.”
“Not much good at filling a cavity, is he?”
The N.S.W. Metropolitan Soccer cham-
pionship, which includes most of the South
Coast clubs, was won on Saturday by the
metropolitan team, Pyrmont, which flab-
bergasted everybody by beating the powerful
Balgownie side by seven goals to one.
Superior combination and speed won the
game, Balgownie being lamentably weak at
finding the net. Pyrmont is in the semi-finals
of the Gardiner Cup State championship,
and has a good chance of landing the coveted
double. The last news of- the Australian
team in Java was that it had been defeated
by All Java, 2-1, and was very stale.
Racquet and Bawl
“Amateur Pro”: Tilden’s decision not to
appear before the American tennis authori-
ties to defend himself against the charges of
professionalism was to be expected. With-
out doubt he flagrantly ignored the asso-
ciation’s rule, passed nearly a couple of
years ago, against writing or supplying
tennis matter for publication. He will now
join his old associate, Vincent Richards, in
the ranks of professionalism, and, as there
seems plenty of money in America for exhi-
bition tennis, will in all probability make a
good thing of it. The question of the ama-
teur status needs serious consideration in
Australia. The English and American rule,
or a variation of it, is supposed to apply
here, but nothing is ever done in the way
of enforcement. A point worth investigat-
ing is how so many players can afford to
spend three-quarters of the year touring as
amateurs.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone"’: Helen Wills, in
spite of the fact that she jeopardised her
tennis reputation by writing a book ot
poems, which has mercifully passed into
oblivion, has developed into the legitimate
successor to Suzanne. This makes the more
interesting the publication of a book on
tennis with the young American’s name on
the cover. Tennis, says Helen, probably
through an interpreter, is the game she “loves
and adores,” and one which “children take
to naturally.” There can be no doubt about
that, since many of them continue as over-
grown kids all their lives, as far as the
game to which they devote themselves is con-
cerned; —those of them, at least, who don’t
develop into old women.
* * * *
“Te Rakuiti”: Maoriland tennis players
have been making rude remarks about the
method employed by the governing body for
selecting the Davis Cup team, and imper-
tinent questions as to the action of the team
in dropping out of the tourney after de-
feating Portugal are being asked. What
happened was that the M.L. Davis Cup com-
mittee, actuated by motives of economy,
selected a team from players already in Eng-
land, including two, Peacock and Fisher, who
had been residing there for years. No
particular control seems to have been exer-
cised over the side’s activities, and after its
success in the game with Portugal it seems
to have remembered an engagement at golf
or something, and to have faded into thin air,
though one, at least, of its members, Andrews,
who is in residence at Cambridge, made a
good showing in the Wimbledon tourney.
From the tone of the argument which is
raging, the next DaVis Cup team from Maori-
land will be selected from performers actu-
ally on the spot.
* * * *
“Colonel Damurize”: My comment on
some aspects of the female tennis player
(B. 22/8/’2B) has been so well received that
I am emboldened to call attention to another
risible situation in which feminine tennis
addicts played a prominent part. At Ham-
burg Frau Aussem, mother of the German
woman player of that name, slapped the
face of Frau von Rezenick, also the. mother
of a tennis-playing daughter. Fraulein, v. It.
recently beat the other championette, where-
upon the latter’s mother announced that her
offspring had been hypnotised by her oppo-
nent before the game. Hence the slapping,
and the cross actions for libel and slander
which have followed. Here is evidence
to my mind that woman, whatever she
may be as a ministering angel, is tempera-
mently unfitted for such games as golf and
tennis. Indeed, I will go further and add
that she is even more unfitted for tennis
than some of its male addicts.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Colonel Damurize”: I note that the usual
misguided ass has been writing to the papers
protesting against “the scant consideration'
accorded to associate members by most of the
Sydney golf clubs —one grievance is that they
are not allowed to enter the men’s part of
the building, even for meals, in the majority
of the clubs. It is hardly necessary to point
out that mental concentration on the play
after a round is finished would be impossible
if the female of the species were permitted to
invade the holy of holies where such matters
are invariably reviewed as through a glass
darkly. It is suggested that a club for women
only be formed as a protest. I heartily con-
cur. A distant relative lias left me a tract
of country which I consider would be most
suitable for such a club. I have never seen
it, but I am informed that it is very sport-
ing country, with plenty of hazards, and un-
hesitatingly offer it for the purpose. It is
somewhere in Arnheim’s Land.
* s|: * *
“Kooyonga”: The country championship
of South Australia has been won by a
Gawler golfer, F. E. Barritt, who was State
champion in 1911. He gave up the game
for some years, and took part in last year’s
country meeting after a few days’ practice.
The contest for the title on this occasion
was a stroke event. After a faultless 75
in the morning round, Barritt dropped his
form a bit in the afternoon, but finished six
strokes better than the runner-up, E. G.
Sterling.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury” : Annual golf contests have
long been a feature of inter-University sport
in Britain —Oxford and Cambridge grant a
full blue nowadays for the game—but Aus-
tralia is only just making a beginning. Mel-
bourne and Sydney University opened the
ball in the southern capital last week, and
the match resulted in a horrid hiding for
the young men from the Harbor, Melbourne
winning by 5 matches to 1. H. M. White,
2 up on R. Goldspink, was the only Sydney-
sider to down his man.
* * # 4=
“Brassey”: An Auckland (M.l>.) golf
club is wondering whether there oughtn’t
to be a new rule on the subject of inter-
ference. In a recent four-ball match one of
the players made a very short drive from the
first tee. A seagull which had been circling
over the links, and apparently taking an
interest in the game, swooped down, seized
the ball in his beak, and carried it off in
the direction of the putting-green. The
player, who had visions of the total loss of
his good tliree-and-sixpenny ba’, used lan-
guage that might have made even a vulture
falter, but the gull was made of stern stuff.
He found the burden almost too much for
his strength, but flapped his way slowly
along till he was over the green. Then he
dropped the ball where it could be holed in
one, and turning a reproachful eye in the
direction of the owner he sped seaward.
* # • * *
“Rikki T.”: “The McHaggis” (B.
8/8/’2B) is one of many sorrowing ball-
losers who will be glad of my good news. I
have just perfected a ball which contains a
tiny gramophone whose delicate mechanism
is affected by degrees of light. For instance,
half a minute’s submergence in any rough
is enough to start a Melba record singing
“Down in the Forest,” as a guide to the
spot. On the other hand, elevation on a
tee sets a soothing Scotch voice chanting
“Slow back,” etc. I am still working on a
putting-green record of “Down Among the
Dead Men” that will automatically rollick
the ball into the pot.
* * *
“The McHaggis”: Reference to the ancient
feather-stuffed golf ball (B. 20/6/’2B) renalls
the fact that the stuffing, done with a pointed
iron rod, was once a special trade in itself,
like that other almost vanished craft, flint-
knapping. Old balls still on view in many
of the older British golf clubs are remarkable
specimens of skilled handicraft, and their
efficiency is far higher than would be sup-
posed. Indeed, the first gutties, made with
a smooth surface, were not so good in some
particulars, the smoothness causing them to
dip and duck in flight with often irritating
results. Then someone noticed that these
balls flew much better after they had been
criss-crossed by the marks of the irons. This
led to the idea of pressing the balls so as
to produce the now familiar “mesh” pattern,
and the gutty then came fairly into its own.
It has been supplanted by the solid core,
the soft core and the liquid core in turn, the
liquid type supplying the resilient and lively
pill which is now alleged to make golf “too
easy.” “Dimple,” “dot” and various other
surface patterns have been evolved, each
being claimed by their inventors as superior
to the others. Actually, as long as the surface
is regularly roughened in some fashion, the
pattern does not matter.
(Continued on next page A


20
for
1/6
ST9TE O.PHPSS
333 CIGARETTES
777
ARDATH
TOBACCO
CO., LTD.,
LONDON.
Plain or IVORY Tipped.
Cork Tipped.
£5OO
in Cash Prizes
State Expressettes is a fascinating Competition with
handsome prizes for the winners. See daily papers for
full particulars of this interesting Competition. Closing
date, September 8.
Send your entries without delay.
These packings
are all eligible for
the Competition.
Have you triecL
333
with the. NEW
PERFECTED
IVORY TIPS-
Car and Cycle
“Methuselah II.”: The automobile past
gave up its ghosts in America when the
Studebaker Co. offered a prize for the oldest
machine of its make still running. The
Pfize was won by a man who had bought
his car in 1908, and was still using it
regularly. He could not estimate the mileage
run. The next man turned up in a car
which had recorded 487,000 miles, and there
were others almost -as hard-worked, while
every entry was in reasonably good con-
dition.
* * * *
“0.H.V.”: Another demonstration of the
wonderful efficiency of small British-built
long-stroke high-compression motors was
given in the International Tourist Trophy
Race run last week at Belfast, Ireland. This
is a race for standard touring cars fully
equipped, and they are scientifically handi-
capped on the basis of weight. Thirty laps
of a 13j miles coui - se are covered by the
back-markers. Driving a 4-cyl. super-
charged Lea Francis (bore 69 m.m., stroke
100 m.m.) of 1496 c.c. capacity—it works
out at 11.8 li.p. under the R.A.C. rule —
Ivaye Don maintained a speed of 64.06 miles
per hour. _ D. Cashman, in an Alvis (also
British-built and of about the same power),
filled second place, liis average being 64.02
miles an hour. There were 4 4 starters, but
only 12 saw the race out. Malcolm Campbell,
driving a Bugatti, and Viscount Curzon, in
a very high-powered car, saw their ’buses
burst into flames. In the first race of this
series, held 23 years ago on the Isle of Man
over 225 miles, the winner, ,T. S. Napier,
who drove an 18-li.p. Avrol-Johnston, aver-
aged only 33.9 m.p.h.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Slightly-used cars are be-
coming such an important factor in the
market that one Melbourne firm lias them
more considerately housed than the new
models. The gorgeous things lounge lav-
ishly on Brussels carpets behind a huge
plate-glass window, with potted palms flank-
ing them on either side, and only the' notice
to that effect indicates that they are second-
hand. The reason for their growing import-
ance is the increasing habit of the well-
lined of passing in their last year’s safety
Stutzs and Hispano Suizas for this year’s
model. In certain circles in Toorak, it is con-
sidered almost as unfashionable to be caught
m a car more than six months old as to be
seen travelling in a tram, and manufac-
turers pander to this latest form of snobbery
by straining every nerve and exhausting ail
their ingenuity putting fresh fantastic gad-
gets on their next creations.. Similarly the
annual motor-shows set up a craving
amongst the offensively rich for a make of
car other than their own, and this throws
a fresh .lot of patrician vehicles upon the
world. A leisured youth of my acquaintance
boasted of having owned 23 cars in seven
years, and from what I have seen I have no
reason to doubt him;
* * * *
The N.S.W. Automobile Club’s reliability
run to Canberra, via Goulburn and Cooma,
attracted only nine, entrants, one of whom
was a lady, Mrs. L. E. Dunrich. The trial
was for reliability only, and full points
wei-e scored by Ray Allsopp (Vauxhall),
T. I>. Irons (Vauxhall), J. S. Taylor (Willys
Knight), N. Smith (Hudson sedan) and
Fred Thorp (Cadillac). The course had to
be covered at an allotted speed, there being
several fixed controls and one secret, and the
general performance must be rated a good
one over the hilly course.
■f -1: *
“Wliizz”; There was a whiff of the good
old times when the Davies Park speedway
re-opened in Brisbane, and spectators were
delighted to find that all the new devices for
safety had not abolished thrills. There was
only one star turn ; Van Praag hit the safety
fence with such force that he was “tem-
porarily incapacitated.” Another rider had
a “nasty fall.” The Silver Helmet was won
by a Brisbane lad, Les Lawrence; so the
crowd went home well pleased.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: A recent event in British dirt-
track cycling was a match at Stamford
Bridge between Billy Lament, of N.S.W.,
and Art Pechar, an American. The track
was narrow and old-fashioned, and the way
William took the awkward corners made even
his accustomed mates of the big Australian
contingent gasp. There were two races,
and Lamont won both, averaging 43.8 m.p.h.
Pechar rode a 2f-h.p. cycle, an Indian,
against Lament's 34-h.p. A..T.5.; on the other
hand, his smaller machine was the better
suited to the course.
Miscellaneous
“Brian Born”: Neither Pearce nor Charl-
ton competed in the Tailteann Games at Dub-
lin, and Winter was the only Australian who
gained a first prize. He captured the hop-
step-and-jump with 45ft. sin. Miss Miller
won the 400-metres swim for Maoriland.
Tailteann associations are to be fostered
abroad; Les Duff, the Australian Olympic
manager, has undertaken to establish one in
this country.
* * * *
“Spike”: That mighty half-miler D. G. A.
Lowe announced his retii'ement from the
cinder track after the America-Britain
athletic meeting at Stamford Bridge. Never-
theless, he turned out in the SOO metres
German championship at Berlin, and capped
a great spiked-shoe career by putting up a
record for the event, Imin. 51 l : ssec.
This knocked two-fiftlis of a second
off the previous best by Dr. Peltzer, who
chased the flying Englishman home, being
four metres behind at the tape.
* :!= * *
“The Gaffer” : The American Olympic peds
invited to visit Australia by the Victorian
Athletic Association ale a pretty warm lot.
Lloyd Hahn, who was in Maoriland with J. V.
Scliolz in 1926, is still one of the world’s
best middle-distance runners; he holds the
Australasian record for the 1000 yards and
the world’s for the half-mile. Wykoff is a
19-year-old sprinter who broke evens three
times in the American Olympic trials,
though he could not do it in Amsterdam.
Ouhel is a hurdler, and was second to Lord
Burgliley in flic 400 metres hurdles at the
Olympiad. Nick Carter, another Ameri-
can Olympic middle-distance runner, who
hails from Los Angeles, will appear in quar*
ter, half and mile events.
si: ❖ :J: jJc
“Billy the Goose” : I see there’s bin a lot-
tcr yap in Sydnee erbout croolty ter the live
’ares at the noo dog-racin’ joints, an’ the
Y.M.C.A., or one o’ them shows, is goin’ ter
get busy with the blue-papers. This ’ere
8.P.C.A., or wotever it is, might give a
thort ter the dorgs, an’ wot some of them
’as tor put up with. I was cornin’ up fr’m
me flat at Mrs. Macquarrie’s lars’ week an’
strikes a mob o’ girls uv orl ages fr’m eight
ter 80 ’angin’ roun’ the steps o’ St. Mary’s
Cathedral, waitin’ t’ ’ave a screw at some
Eyetalians bein’ married. One uv ’em ’as
’er racin’ grey’ound on ’er leach jambed
inter the thick uv it. She’d bin exercisin’
the dawg in the Domain, I serpose, an’
instead o’ takin ’im ’ome t’ ’is brekfus’ was
set there till sundown, if the show larsted
that long. The look on the pore shiverin’
pup’s dial wuz ernulf ter break a man’s
’eart.
* * * *
“Long Dog”: Alexandra, one of the South
Aus. chibs which follow open coursing, is
complaining bitterly of the scarcity of wild
hares. This is due to the depredations of
the “spotlighter,” the murderous professional
game-killer who goes round at night with a
bike lamp or an electric torch and pots the
fascinated hare. The attention of the
S.P.C.A. is being called to the matter, and
assistance from the Government might well
be sought. The hare is no pest, and this
butchery is not sport.
* * * *
“Backwoodsman”; The bowls bias con-
troversy has burst out with redoubled fury
in Victoria owing to the discovery that the
original testing table adopted was of faulty
design. The contrivance passed many bowls
JAMES MURDOCH, M.L.C., the new
member of the A.J.C. committee.
as complying with requirements which were
really quite otherwise; as a consequence,
blameless old gentlemen have become objects
of dark suspicion when a challenge by an
opponent made an examination of their
“woods” necessary. It i s now announced
that bowls passed during the period of
error will be set right free of charge by the
authorities if handed in. That will not re-
compense some of the sufferers for the agony
of mind and the corresponding thirst induced
by what now been proved baseless
charges.
* * * «
“Mid Leg”: With the praiseworthy idea
of curtailing marathon cricket methods, the
N.S.W. authorities have adopted a system
of point scoring which gives 8 points
for an outright win, 6 for a win on
tha first innings, 4 for a tie and 3 for a
draw. But it is doubtful whether any
system of the kind will liven up that too
prevalent type of batsman who thinks more
of his own average than of hi s club. Such
suggested experiments as a fixed-time allow-
ance for each innings or a minimum rate
BERT GARDINER, who recently won the
25-miles walking championship oj Vic-
toria.
of scoring for each batsman are outside the
ambit of cricket, and need not be considered.
The old idea of playing matches out to a
decision in a single day, an idea that has
been revived in North of England League
cricket, would, however, encourage faster
scoring if adopted here. The League clubs
play the brightest and liveliest cricket now
to be seen in England, and the bowlers
benefit just as much as the batsmen, who
cannot afford to stick and do nothing, avoid-
ing- every possible risk, as they do in the
spun-out games with which many of us are
getting so fed up.
* ❖ :{: *
“Tenth Slip” : The choice of State selec-
tors for the coming season again emphasises
the tendency of delegates to the N. S. Wales
C. A. to cut out international players. R.
L. Jones, who has again been chosen, has
not even got as far as inter-State cricket,
but he proved himself a successful selector
in his opening season, and is all for giving
the younger set a chance. Andy Ratcliffe,
also re-elected, is another with a leaning
towards new blood, and R. G. M. Boyce, a
newcomer to the committee, is expected to
follow this line. Bardsley and Carter were
among the also-rans.
* * * *
“Wart”: As a youngster E. A. McDonald,
whose loss to Australian cricket is lamented
by “Aigburth” (B. 8/8/’2B), played with
the “Nils,” a Launceston junior club, on
cement wickets, and was considered to be
more of a batsman than a bowler. One of
the senior men dropped out of a team that
had been picked to play against Victoria
in Launceston. Instead of picking a has-
been or a never-was, the selectors went to
the junior ranks and gave McDonald a
trial. To their own and everyone else’s sur-
prise the lanky colt captured six wickets.
When he went to Melbourne to work soon
afterwards Warwick Armstrong got hold of
him, and the rest is cricket history.
* ❖ $ ' $
“Shrewsbury)”: Since the beginning of
the season Australian cricket fancy has
been captured by the feats with bat and
ball of the Gloucestershire professional
W. R. Hammond. Interest is strengthened
by the fact that he has never yet met Aus-
tralian bowlers, at home or abroad, though
he has a successful tour of South Africa,
on matting wickets, to his credit. He
eclipsed all previous performances the other
day by taking ten slip catches against
Surrey and knocking up a century in
each innings. That was followed by his
dismissal of Worcestershire for 35 runs,
wdien he captured 9 wickets himself and
caught the tenth off Parker in the slips.
Better than all, he is a batsman of the dash-
ing type, having resurrected the buried art of
off and on driving. Forcing batsmen have
usually been a success in Australia, though
Gilbert Jessop, more a pure hitter than
Hammond, was a comparative failure here
in 1901-02.
Pot and Palette.
i When Frank Davies, general manager of
e the Australasian house of Gordon and Gotcli.
i died the other day, there fell a branch of an
s ancient journalistic tree. John Davies, his
i father, founded the Hobart Mercury and the
i Tasmanian Mail. Frank was the last Bur-
s' vivor of three brothers; the other two,
5 George, who was knighted before his death,
e and C.E., succeeded their father in the pro-
i prietorsliip of the Apple-Island journals.
' “N.X.For three years Vance Palmer the
' winner of the third prize in The Bulletin
Novel Competition, has been living very
quietly at Caloundra, on the Queensland
coast, many miles from a railway, writing
steadily at the kind of books men usually
postpone until too late. One of these novels,
“The Man Hamilton,” has just been pub-
lished in London by Ward, Lock. It is set
in the West Queensland cattle country, and
shows a rich complex life with its special
type of problems—both rapidly passing
away under the pressure of modern changes.
“Old Sub”: The newspaper obits, of the
late Tom Heney say he was a shy, reserved
sort of a man, and so he was, and he didn’t
put on any dog either. But he was pretty
adroit in an emergency,. When he was
tenant of the thunderer’s throne in the S. M.
Herald office he arrived one afternoon
to find a large criminal-looking stranger
lurking in the corridor near the editorial
door —evidently lie had dodged the sentry.
This man muttered in his beard and ground
his teeth occasionally. So Tom stood around
a bit. “Are you looking for the
editor, too?” asked the irate person. “Yes,”
said Tom, “but I think I’ll drop in later.”
Robert Johnson, who forsook M.L. a few
years ago for Australia, has rambled about
the pleasant places near Sydney with an
eye for their most charming aspects; the
result is visible in the show at the Gros-
veuor Galleries. There is a sunshiny freshness
in all Robert Johnson’s work ; the pleasure
of lying in cool shadows is felt when in one
picture the eye is induced to look through the
growth of trees in the foregound to the sun-
lit glade beyond. There is a fascination for
the artist in water views, especially those
seen - from a height: the majority of the
pictures are of this type, all showing good
craftsmanship.
Lyster Ormsby has added another to the
list of Sydney’s art galleries; the premises
at 220 Pitt-street have been opened by an ex-
hibition of the pictures of Erik Langker,
a moderately good show if the artist didn’t
have his own ideas about how Nature should
look. “Morning Light” is the most attractive
of several that strike the eye pleasingly;
but not all the subjects are well chosen, and
there is always the sense of that defiant ges-
ture that, if Nature doesn’t look precisely
like Langker’s pictures, it is the fault of the
scene, not the painter. The show is a mix-
ture of oils and water-colors; and some of
the small oils are the best things.
From an Adelaide critic:—
Colin Colahan had his self-portrait—praised in
this column as the one outstanding picture in his
recent show —bought by the Art Gallery of Adelaide.
Gwen Barringer has two pictures so honored; a
bowl, with the high and reflected light on its convex
surface wonderfully caught; flowers, a curtain and
some Chinese figures standing about. Also an arch-
way in Europe, somewhat careless in finish, and
yet appealing. Her present show marks a great
advance in her art, and her mainly architectural
things from Prance and England sell rapidly. Taken
as a whole, they are singularly low-toned; and an
otherwise beautiful vase of bright flowers, prominent
on the opening days, dealt them an unintentional
smack.
“Ivyn” : Kathie Prichard (Mrs. Throssell),
winner of a first prize of £5OO in the
Bulletin story competition, used to be on
Melbourne Herald as social editress. A score
or more of her former colleagues in all de-
partments who still cling to the evening sheet
have pleasant recollections of the friendly,
timid, little lady just feeling her way and
afraid that she might cause anybody trouble
by omitting some requisite touch from her
copy. The fact was that everybody was very
eager to help her, as she was about the
only woman in the establishment at that
period. Her literary success is a source of
real satisfaction to her pals of the days
when she was finding her feet on the Inky
Way.
John Rowell’s paint (Melbourne Athe-
naeum) gets richer, more unctuous and more
dramatically exciting every season. He rolls
up to the depicting of a pigsty or a bit of
broken fencing in the Rolls Royce of a fat
imagination. He wallows in sunlight of that
stinging quality which makes the spectator
wary approaching without his carron oil
or a sunshade. Nevertheless, on closer in-
spection, Rowell’s sun turns out to be not
the real luminary of Nature so much as
the false sun of the theatre. It has the
searching inquisitiveness of the spotlight and
one can almost hear the hard dry crackle
of the arcs behind the canvas. This is what
makes his pictures at first sight so arrest-
ing and later disappointing.


thatturned FßlCTlON into FICTION
R|M
MADE \uX) ENGLAND
BALL and ROLLER
bearings
■yHE success that has attended the de-
signers and manufacturers of these
British Bearings is reflected in the constant
improvements in automobile engines.
Complete protection against friction,
thrust and shock has resulted in smoother
running, more economical and longer-
lived cars.
So reliable and durable have R. & M.
Bearings proved themselves for Automo-
bile application that they are used by
80 per cent, of British Motor-car Manu-
facturers.
The monster 1000-h.p. Sunbeam Car, now
in Australia, in which Major Segrave
attained the phenomenal speed of 203
m.p.h., is fitted throughout with R. &
M. British Bearings.
Insist on R. & M. Bearings—British and
Best.
Exclusive Commonwealth Agents and Distributors: —
GARDNER, WAERN 8 CO. PTY., LTD.
MELBOURNE: 481 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: Hunter Street West.
S. AUS. AGENTS: ADELAIDE HARDWARE CO.,
LTD., Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
TASMANIAN AGENTS: W. & G. GENDERS FTY.,
LTD., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO.,
LTD., BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE.
W. AUS. AGENTS (Automotive) :
COVENTRY MOTOR CO.,
LTD., PERTH.
(Industrial) : FLOWER, DAVIES
AND JOHNSON, LTD., PERTH.
&A/
X,
’im
■ :
if
yfr/j-
-m
wst#
*>•?
r. >"•
:. *}
Mill I/A
a
%
or me
1 information
1 of ail those
p who are about
i to Build-" or
I who have built
I fiomej _
fes ESE
I T /
Before Building or
Improving your
home, do not fail
to consult the latest
Authority on Home
Building.
ONE HUINDRED AND ONE pages of beautiful HOUSE
DESIGNS, PLANS and INTERIORS are contained in
DISTINCTIVE AUSTRALIAN HOMES.
Price: 3 6. Posted, 3/10.
Modern Practical Carpentry
By GEORGE ELLIS.
For the use of
BUILDERS, WORKMEN, ARCHITECTS AND ENGINEERS.
Containing a full description of the Methods of Construction and Erecting
Roofs, Floors, Partitions, Scaffolding, Shoring, Centering, Stands and Stages,
Coffer Dams, Foundations, Bridges, Gates, Tunnels, Excavations, Woods and
Half Timber Houses, and various Structural Details, together with new and
simple methods of finding the Bevels in Roofs, Setting Out Domes, Steeple..,
etc. An account of failures in construction, and the Theory of Trussing
Frames.
Also Including:
A Concise Treatise upon Timber, Notes on the Woods used in Carpentry,
Various Tables, Terms and Phrases connected with Carpentry, with about
1100 illustrations and a chapter on the use of the Steel Square.
Price, 36/-. Postage Extra, 1/6.
THE TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
NEW SOUTH WALES BOOKSTALL CO., Ltd.
SOCIAL PROBLEMS
r
H
Mr~
H 1
=I|I|BU
n
a
r
C\
j=
a
□j
JCrw^j.
A, having inadvertently stopped his engine while turning round in the
middle of an important thoroughfare, receives unmistakeable evidence of
approaching fire-engines.
What should A do ?
« a
Quick as thought - - LIGHT AN ABDULLA.
superb Cigarettes
TURKISH
EGYPTIAN
VIRGINIA


£3/7/6
24.D.L.45 Catanach’s Lady’s “De Luxe” Gold
Watch, 15 jewels, assorted fancy dials, £3/7/6.
£7/10/-
24,D.L.6—Catanaeh’s Lady’s “De
Luxe” Watch, assorted fancy dials,
9ct. Gold, 15 jewels, £7/10/-
18ct. Gold, 17 jewels, £l2.
£5
24.D.L.2 —Catanach’s Lady’s “De
Luxe” Gold Watch, 15 jewels,
assorted fancy dials, £5.
Catanach’s
“De Luxe” Watches
Are Guaranteed.
It’s quite impossible to judge the merits of a watch by its case, but if a watch is
guaranteed by a reputable house such as Catanach’s, you buy with every confidence.
“De Luxe” Watches are by far the best and cheapest Watches in the Common-
wealth ; they carry Catanach’s guarantee. Available in a very wide range of
the latest designs both for Ladies and Gentlemen; all have 15-jewel movements,
and are unequalled for timekeeping and service.
“De Luxe” Watches are obtainable only from Catanach’s. Order by post if you
cannot calL
Cor, Royal Arcade & Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
GO
©
@D
24.D.L.9 —Catanacn s Gent.’s “De Luxe”
Gold Watch, 15 jewels, plain Dial, £9;
Luminous Dial, £9/10/-; Sterling Silver,
£5/10/-
1;
ra
<3*
50
SO
EU
SO
24.D.L.14 —(Jatanach’s Gent.’s “De Luxe’’
Watch, 15 jewels, 9ct. Gold, Plain Dial,
£9; Luminous Dial, £9/10/-; Sterling
W-McF.
Melbourne
Chatter
A recent visit to Ballarat moves this
Chatterer to speculate -whether Melbourne’s
great Shrine of Remembrance, when com-
pleted, will convey to the visitor the same
sense of dignity and fitness as is inspired
by the first glimpse of the nor’-western city’s
Arch of Victory, with the vista beyond of
the Memorial Avenue. The Arch forms the
gateway of the road to Adelaide, which for
some miles has been planted with trees by the
girls of the Lucas factory. These 000 girls
commenced their record of patriotic work by
sending a Y.M.G.A. worker to the Front and
supporting him there for three years. In
1917 the idea of planting a tree in honor
of every local man who enlisted was adopted,
anti by August of 1919 the last tree, num-
bered 8912, was in and the avenue was
bordered for 14 miles. The next enterprise
was the provision of a suitable entrance, and
the foundation stone of the Arch was laid
by General Birdwood on February 7, 1920;
the edifice being ready for Edward P. to
open on June 2. The whole of the £4600
spent on the Arch and Avenue was raised
by these girls, who had the Lucas firm as
a strong supporter of their projects. A
returned soldier is permanently employed
looking after the trees. The girls contri-
bute 2d. in the £ of their weekly wages to
a maintenance fund, which has been
strengthened by a public donation of £4OO.
Old girls of the Catholic Ladies’ College
had a dance at the Prince’s —formerly known
as the Plantation—last week for the financitl
aid of their Alma Mater. The cool green
and white interior with its wee balconies
was gladdened with foliage plants and sun-
flowers. Mrs. J. Forster, the lion, organiser,
wearing black sparkling with midnight-blue
sequins, cast a managing eye around, sup-
ported by the hon. sec., Mrs. J. E. McMahon,
clad in gold lace and lame.
The white walls of St. Kilda Town Hall
radiated with a crimson glow from many
fairy lights on Friday night for the ball
of the United Service Institute. There was
the usual display of bright uniforms ming-
ling with feminine party-frocks, and Major
A. T. Paul, the hon. sec., had reason to
smile with satisfaction. Lt.-Col. D. A.
Luxton, president of the institute, was there
with his wife, whose almond-green draperies
were blended with silver. Rear-Admiral and
Mrs. Napier were the only official guests;
she had embellishment of silver upon her
cosinos-pink gown. Brigadier-G ene r a 1
Brand’s wife wore amber-hued raiment traced
with silver beads. Among the most smartly-
turned-out membei’s of the younger set were
Judy Finch, whose white taffeta gown was
scattered with pink roses; and Lorna Brand,
a study in green and silver.
The Junior Auxiliary of the Melbourne
District Nursing Society got considerable
monetary help towards the running of the
kiosk attached to the M.D.N.S. Home as
the result of a bridge party at Logan House.
Mrs. Leslie Stuart, besides giving the use
of her home, provided the afternoon refresh-
ment for the nearly 500 present. The folk
responsible fo? the big roll up of card
enthusiasts included the president, Mrs. Roy
Maclellan, Mrs. Lucius Conolly and Mrs.
F. K. Sampson. Sheila Morell and Lynette
Henderson hon. secretaried.
For the last 25 years or so members of
the Commercial Travellers’ Association have
given an annual children’s pai'ty to their off-
spring. The latest mei’ry-making happened
on Saturday afternoon, when 1200 kids had
a bonser time at the Town Hall, with evei’y
conceivable form of fun and the finest of
feasts. The organising committee enjoyed
the jollo, too.
The dining-room and winter garden at the
Oriental were handed over for music and
cards on Thursday afternoon to swell the
chapel fund of Mandeville Hall, formerly
the home of the late W. J. T. Clarke, and
now a gilds’ college conducted by the Loretto
nuns. Margaret Gleeson and Dorothy Tut-
ton were hon. secs.; and Mrs. Clarence Mar-
riott counted the coin. Help with sales of
various sorts was given by Mrs. W. J.
Wearne, Mrs. Edward Dyson, Mrs. Russell
Jackson, Mrs. Dunlea and many others.
Favorite artists were mustered by Mrs. C.
N. Finn (Dolly Castles) to supply musical
entertainment. Mrs. Finn seldom sings in
public nowadays, but she broke her mile on
this occasion, and was received with storms
of applause.
The reception-rooms of the Lyceum Club
looked like a flower show one night last
week. Banins of peach blossom and heath
fronted the stage, and blue lupins and pink
blossoms peeped from, crystal vases and brass
bowls. The occasion was a welcome ex-
tended by the head of the Professorial Board
of the local Shop, Ernest Scott, and his wife
to the delegates of the inter-State Uni. Con-
ference. Guests numbered about 200. Mrs.
Scott held a posy that blended with a hya-
cinth-mauve gown embroidered in silver.
During lulls in the murmur of chat Eliza-
beth Pinschof (Mrs. W. H. Finley) sang.
Among local lights who attended were Chan-
cellor MacFarland; Prof, and Mrs. Skeats;
Prof. Alex. Gunn and his wife, whose apple-
green gown was top-dressed with gold lace;
the Frank Apperlys; and Prof. Francis
Fraser, from London, and his wife.
The Oaklands Hunt Club meeting at
Moonefe Valley had bad-good luck with the
weather. A dull morning that threatened
rain changed into a bright, delightful after-
noon too late for many folk to decide upon
a few hours in the open, so the attendance
suffered. J. ,T. Carlson, who rode Willan-
jie, of which he is also part owner, won the
Cup, president Alister Clark handing over
the fine trophy. In the members’ enclosure
followers of the hounds mingled with those
who patronise the sport of kings on any sort
of occasion.
The crowd of mostly feminine gazers that
clustered in front of Scots’ Church, Collins-
street, one afternoon last week saw a par-
ticularly charming wedding. A trio of brides-
maids announced the coming of spring in
leaf-green chiffon, yellow straw hats and
armfuls of daffodils. The bride’s lengthy vel-
lum-hued satin gown had train and veil of
old Limerick lace, and she carried a sheaf of
cream camellias. The contracting parties
were Hilda Mary, only daughter of Colonel
and Mrs. W. St. Leonards Robertson, of
Fairlie House, South Yarra, and Colin
Henry Simson, whose station, The Planta-
tion, is at Quirindi (N.S.W.). Lavender
Stuart, Betty Bayles and Millicent Staugh-
ton were the ’maids.
Delicate pink pearls and crystal em-
broidery adorned the ivory erepe-de-Chine
wedding robe of Cecily Grace Johnson when
she exchanged “I wills” with Basil Shaw
Fitchett at the Toorak kirk last week.
Her ’maids combined two tones of pink in
their georgette frocks and millinery. The
bride’s parents, the Archibald Johnsons, of
Toorak, entertained afterwards at No. 9.
Victoria’s Minister of Lands, IJ. S.
Bailey, deserted politics recently to
take unto himself a wife, the ceremony being
performed at St. Pat.’s. The bride, Lily,
daughter of the A. Gibsons, of Warrnambool,
wore a simple gown of white georgette linked
to a veil and train of white net spaced with
Limerick lace, and carried a sheaf of arum
lilies. Her sister Polly ’maided in a sea-
weed-pink frock and straw millinery.
The infectious smile pictured here eman-
ates from George Colville —you don’t need
to be Sherlock Holmes to guess that he’s a
painter. His show will occupy walls of
the Fine Arts
Gallery until
early in Sep-
tember. He
was a National
Gallery stu-
dent when the
Great War
broke out, and
he did his bit
in France and
F 1 ande r s. A
picture of a
Flemish farm
hung in the
present exhibi-
tion may have
something to
do with the
adjacent smile.
Colville and
foot bailer
Paddy Scan-
lon were line-
"repairing near
this deserted ranch, and among other pre-
cious finds they pounced upon two elaborate
nighties fashioned for a dame of ample pro-
portions. That night and many a night
thereafter they curled themselves up in the
voluminous folds of fine linen and lace.
Arthur Robinson and his lady will have a
wedding in the family on September 12.
when their daughter Nancy will become Mrs.
Huntley Griffith, the ceremony taking place
in London. The bride-elect met her future
partner, who has a tea plantation in Ceylon,
on a voyage to England.
Mayor Wilmot, of Malvern, received prac-
tical response to his appeal for the Austin
Hospital in the shape of a cheque that repre-
sented the profits of a children’s fancy-dress
dance, of which Mrs. W. S. P. Godfrey and
Mrs. Rupert Wilks were hon. secs. The
picturesque affair was staged at Malvern’s
City Hall. Gallery students mustered to
repeat their doll pageant for the young folks’
pleasure, and Jennie and Eileen Brenan’s
pupils did their bit by capering around as
fairies.
The Busy Bees is the name under which
a number of the employees of Swallow and
Ariel do a lot of good deeds. Lately they
went honey-gathering to aid the Homoeopathic
Hospital and raised £645, £291 of which was
obtained in penny votes for the Queen of
Swallows competition.
From “Outward Bound” to “The Girl in
the Limousine,” which latter had a first-
night performance at the Princess on Satur-
day, is a rather disconcerting transition.
The boisterous nightgown farce in which
people are continually wandering about in
various stages of undress did not meet with
universal favor—there have been so many
plays of that kind. Two acts are laid in
the bedroom, which is purple, with panels
of dull green and futuristic touches of orange
and black. Zillali Bateman, one of the people
who spend most of the evening getting in
and out of bed, wears night attire that in-
cludes a dainty blue underskirt, changes to
a sweet evening frock of tiered flounces of
watery blue taffeta, and makes final appear-
ance in pyjamas of old-gold hue. Beatrice
Fisher’s raiment of flowered chiffon, with
a sash of pink and gold tissue, suits her
well, and Tony Seymour looks nice in a
geranium-red gown sprinkled with crystal.
Mildred Cottell’s rococo dressing-gown and
boudoir-cap give her a distinctly sheikish
air. There was a gorgeous array of flowers
at the final curtain.
Lafayette pictures here Dorothy, the tall
younger daughter of the J. K. Merritts of
Brentwood, St.
Kilda - road.
She is one of
the workers
for the Home
for Cripples at
Franksto n,
which is an
offshoot of the
C h i 1 d r e n’s
Hospital. With
Mrs. J. A.
Graham she is
sharing the
secretarial tri-
bulations of
the big mati-
nee at His
Majesty’s on
August 28, by
which it is ex-
pected suf-
ficient cash will
be raised to
pay for the
furnishing of the now almost completed
buildings wherein afliicted kiddies will be
specially treated.
Titian-haired Hilda Roberts, in lemon-
liued taffeta, demonstrated her musical ver-
satility in a pianoforte and harp recital last
week. The Moonlight Sonata headed her
pianoforte offerings. Her principal harp
item was a Mozart concerto in which she
had the support of J. G. Stonham and his
flute, with Miss J. Smith at the piano.
Heaps of violets, daffodils and peach blos-
som rewarded the recitalist.
The Repertory Society, with director
Frank Clewlow in the name role, gave a
remarkably good plain-clothes reading of
James Elroy Flecker’s “Hassan” on Thurs-
day night. The Allied Trusts hall held a
full and appreciative audience. The cast was
expertly chosen, and the result suggested
that the company could give an excellent
and payable stage presentation of the play
if copyright matters could be arranged.
The Henry Lawson Society of Footscray
intends holding its annual commemoration
gathering at Footscray Hill Park on Sun-
day. At the first of these annual tributes
to Lawson’s memory there was an attend-
ance of only 15 persons. Last year 800
rolled up.
Norman Bennett, whose tenor notes have
been heard from many a concert platform
in this city, has his cabin-trunk marked
U.S.A. He is off for a polishing course at
the Chicago College of Music. A number of
musicians combined to give him a farewell
concert at the Assembly Hall one night last
week, when the departing singer was heard
in Schumann and Bach melodies and an
English song cycle arranged by Henry Cole-
man. Dorothy Gadsden, Molly Mackay and
Frank R. Thomas also sang, John Simons,
a very promising young Uni. Con. pianoforte
student, played Chopin’s Scherzo in B minor,
and there were items by fiddler Connie Zie-
bell and elocutionist Stanley Brookes. Wil-
liam Burrell proved himself an admirable
accompanist.
After much discussion and agitation a
woman is to be allowed to become Chief
Inspector of Secondary Schools. But whereas
when a man fills the job he gets £9OO a year,
the lady must be content with £720.
Mrs. Ellen Gale, who has just passed over
at the home of her daughter, Mrs. M. Iver-
sal, at Bendigo, has left a cluster of relatives
reaching into the fifth generation. R. Iv.
McKenzie, of Melbourne, was her great-
grandson, and half a dozen of her own child-
ren are still living. Of her 94 years 80 had
been passed in this State.
The Lyell Richardsons have temporarily
abandoned their home in Apple Island. The
captain is due for a military course at the
Randwick School for Officers, during which
his wife and daughter will stay with the
A. J. Richardsons at Geelong.
Mayor Morell gave a commending pat
to the committee and auxiliaries of the
Queen Victoria Hospital • for their healthy
financial position as revealed at the yearly
recording. The next job that must be under-
taken at this hospital for women staffed by
women is the furnishing and equipping of
the nearly-completed Lady Forster ward,
which will contain 80 beds. During the year
the hospital has had some handsome gifts.
Five hundred pounds was handed in anony-
mously, the Mayor of St. Kilda presented
a cheque of £350 from carnival proceeds, and
workers at Preston dug up over a hundred
pounds. The Henry Berry Trust fund
came to light with £5OO, earmarked for a
refrigerator. The committee members were
all re-elected, and 125 extras were put on the
list of life-governors. Mayor and Mayoress
Morell and daughter Sheila, Dame Nellie
Melba and Mrs. Norman Brookes are in the
latest batch.
Charlie Hamilton, who x'eturned home
after the passing of his mother to assist in
settling the estate, returned to his mili-
tary job in India last week, and with him
went a load of antique family possessions,
destined to decorate, sister Sheila’s east-
ern bungalow. Claud Hamilton, who had
half-consented to accompany his son, waved
his good-bye from the wharf; at the last
moment he jibbed at the thought of life in a
strange country. Instead, he has decided to
visit his sister, Mrs. Ross-Watt, at her
Gisborne home, and intends after that to
make his home with a brother settled in
Kynoton district.
The unpopularity of domestic work once
again came up for discussion the other day,
when mothers and secondary-school mis-
tresses wrestled with the problem. A pro-
posal to raise home-running to the status of
a profession was suggested as a means of
inducing the schoolgirls of to-day to look
forward with joy to polishing, dusting and
baking while girls from offices, shops and
factories are off in their best frocks to pic-
nics and sports. It doesn’t sound a very
promising lure.
The job of liaison-officer, which he held
in London before returning home with his
bride, has again been offered to Dermot
Casey, and he has gone back to it. With the
exception of the Sydney Caseys at Beacons-
field all his family have transplanted them-
selves oversea. After the passing of her
husband, his mother sold Shipley House, and
is now a London flat-dweller. • Mrs. David
Casey’s brother, the late Charles Ryan’s
only son, married abroad, and the pair have
been living at Cologne, where he holds a
commission in the Army of Occupation.
Mrs. H. A. Woodruff, wife of Prof. Wood-
ruff of our Uni., who is at present oversea,
will find new duties awaiting her on her
return. She has been appointed president
of the Emily McPherson College of Domestic
Economy in place of Dr. Ethel Osborne, who
is booked for a conference in Prague after
the Honolulu corroboree. Prof. Woodruff
and his family are installed at Queen’s Col-
lege pending the arrival of Dr. Sugden’s
successor from England.
On being released from hospital in Dur-
ban, where he had a rough passage back
to health, William McNeilage was ordered
back home to recuperate. His wife and step-
daughter Viola accompany him, and the
Eiiropean itinerary on which they started so
gaily a few months ago has been abandoned.
Mrs. Harry Osborne on reaching Euro-
pean soil bought a car, found a friend, and
took to the French highway. When she
reached Paris sister Sylvia Vallange was
waiting to accompany her further afield. As
portions of her family, including daughter
Rosemary, may voyage oversea to join her
towards the end of this year, Mrs. Osborne
is not proposing an early return. Son Paddy
and his wife are also down for a November
sailing to make an overdue call on the
Ryries, who will shelter them during their
stay.
Elvira Collier, who lately returned with
her mother, Elsie Treweek, is one of Anne
Williams’s most promising pupils, and pos-
sesses a pleasing voice, which may pre-
sently trill in musical comedy. She 'is also
a fine pianist and often accompanies her
parents at concerts or social engagements.
Florence Austral offered the young student
an engagement for her forthcoming Ameri-
can tour, but the Colliers considered their
18-year-old daughter too young for that.
Madame Austral, who is a family friend, ha-
leased the Collier home for her London
season, and is giving Fred Collier shelter
during his family’s absence.


DRUMMOND
ETWATCHE
DIAMOND SET WRIST WATCH (30 DIAMONDS) £26 5
DIAMOND SET WRIST WATCH (26 DIAMONDS) £.30
DIAMOND SET WRIST WATCH (.36 DIAMONDS) £3O
Never has the firm been able to offer
such a lai&e and varied range of Wristlet
Watches. The selection includes many-
new and distinctive designs, and it can be
confidently stated that nothing of finer
quality and value can be obtained anywhere
in the Commonwealth. Mail inquiries
receive prompt attention. Fully-illustrated
Catalogue post free to any address.
WM DRUMMOND & CO
344-346 COLLINS STREET
MELBOURNE
SELECTED WEDDING PRESENTS.
A. SAUNDERS’
Biscuit Barrel, English Decorated
China, Silver-plated Mount.
21/-
A. SAUNDERS’ Afternoon Tea Stand, pure Silver-plated.
A 1 Quality
£7/10/- SPECIAL VALUE.
A. SAUNDERS’ Presentation Salver, Solid Polished
plated Mounts and Shield. A 1 Quality. 22 inches,
Others 27/6, 32/6, 40/-, 50/-, 60/
Oak, Silver-
£3/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’ Silver-plated Cake__ Basket, hand-
pierced and burnished, 20/-
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDERS.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS’ Afternoon Tea-
spoons, Pure Silver-plated, in
Velvet-lined Case.
7/6 complete.
With Sugar Tongs, 10/6
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker —Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
%
You'll come again
Come once to the Ranelagh and you’ll come again, for no
other Hotel in the whole of the Commonwealth so completely
fulfils your most exacting demands.
Containing over 100 Bedrooms, each commanding exquisite
views, each the acme of comfort and luxury in every detail,
the Ranelagh is the rendezvous of happy people.
Golfing on the finest inland links in Australia, Tennis, Bowls,
Croquet, Fishing, Billiards—pleasures in endless variety await
you.
Ten miles of walking seem as five because soft turf is beneath
your feet, and sweet, sea-borne exhilarating breezes from
the South Pacific Ocean blow about your face.
The throb of music from the Ballroom during the evening will
seem to hold a new delight for you—provocative and insistent
—and so you will dance into the night as you have walked
out of the day—delightfully.
Yes, when you return from a holiday at the Hotel Ranelagh
you’ll have much to relate and more to remember—you’ll
come again.
Illustrated brochure giving full details of the amenities of the Hotel
Ranelagh will be gladly forwarded on request to the
Sydney Booking Office, 84 Pitt Street. 'Phone 81022.
The Halfway House to Canberra .
Hotel Ranelagh
Under the Management of G. M. LIEVAIN (late of Paris House).
ROBERTSON, N.S.W.
’PHONE: ROBERTSON 6.
Inclusive Tariff from £l/1/- per day and from £6/6/- per week.


Under
Royal
Warrant
e
ToH.M.
GeorgeV
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
CharlesTleidsieck
Mins
Australasian Agents -
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
<-MAMPAGNE
OiarLesHeidsitfK
REIMS
U I j=) mtf'**
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WONDERFUL BODY BUILDER
/
MY ADVICE
TO YOU !
TAKE
AB
TONIC WINE
RELIEVES
EXHAUSTION
AB
AB
55Te5T«SS^
TRADE MARK
REGISTERED
BUILDS UP
THE SYSTEM
AFTER ILLNESS.
m
Si
Obtainable everywhere throughout Australia—
CHEMISTS, LICENSED GROCERS, HOTELS, etc.
Suppliers for N.S.W. and Q’land: McLaughlin & Co., Ltd., Comer Sussex and Hay Streets, Sydney.
„ „ West Australia Distillers Agency, Ltd., Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
Tasmania
5 Irvine & MeEa'hern, Brisbane Street, Launceston.
| Ferguson & (jo.. Murray Street, Hobart.
Sole Proprietors: ARNOLD BROS., A.B. Building, 527-529 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vie.
Where Perfect Cuisine, Beautiful
Surroundings and the Spirit of
Revelry Combine to Make a
Memorable Evening’s Enjoyment.
Come Soon :: Come To-night.
You’ll be glad you came.
MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY,
THURSDAY, FRIDAY.
DINNER DE LUXE. 7.30 12/6
SUPPER, from 10 o’clock 8/6
SATURDAY-
LATE NIGHT OF DISTINCTION.
A Superb Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
Special Supper, 10 o’clock .. 12/6
True Relaxation, Substituting Joy and Delight,
DELIGHTFUL TEA DANSANT, WITH
SPARKLING CABARET,
3to 5, 4/-; 6 up, 3/6.
Saturday, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kausch
SILK
GLOVES
Dong before nine o’clock —and Toti dal
Monte’s arrival was not timed till half-past
eleven—the approaches to St. Mary’s were
blocked with women. Hyde Park opposite
the Cathedral was banked with faces, and
among the multitude on the low stone wall
sat two ladies so decrepit and of an age
so ad vanned that one wondered! at the
spirit that could urge them out of bed so
early on such a grey morning. But perhaps
in a record-making age the dear’ old souls
are out to break all previous figures of
wedding-attendance. Trams rattled, taxis
crawled, and more and more people tried to
get into the Cathedral by the front door or
the back. Without a card you couldn’t get
in anywhere. The police barricades were up,
and the police themselves guarded the gate-
ways and doorways. Only a few at a time
were allowed to approach. Policemen linked
arms, and behind these you waited till your
turn came and then you popped under
whether you were tall or short or gay or dig-
nified. Slowly the guests were massed in
the Cathedral, and finally the doors were
closed on about eight thousand. Ushers
tried to find a place for everybody, but it
wasn’t an inspired brain-wave that sug-
gested the side of the High Altar behind the
brass grating for the press girls. It seemed
quite a good possy till the wedding party
arrived, but when Mrs. Nevin Tait, Lina
Scavizzi, various singing friends and some
small white-clad children sat themselves
down on a bench inside the railing and
directly in front of the press girls, there was
nothing for it but to crouch down and get a
view of the proceedings inside the sanctuary
between the legs of the artists. Fortu-
nately the singer in front of this Letter was
fat and sat with his legs extended.
But while being escorted from right to
left the seat-hunter got a chance to take in
the glory of the decorations. An avenue of
palms led to the altar, and every pew was
tied with wide satin streamers and stately
white lilies. Leading to the sanctuary were
high standard loving-cups, and these were
spilling over with garden sweets in which
pale pink stocks, Toti’s favorite marguerites
and sweet-peas predominated. Within the
sanctuary a long silver lame cushion, more
lilies, more white ribbon streamers and
bowls of radiant pink and white peach
blossom. And, strangely out of place
within that stately approach to .the High
Altar, a press camera!
Very shining and splendidly tailored came
Enzo de Muro Lomanto, the bridegroom, and
his supporters, Conductor Bavagnoli and
Lombardi. Dean Crowley and Father de
Francesco and acolytes in red and white
moved into readiness within the sanctuary.
Up the long aisle came Toti looking like
Rossini might have pictured Rosina as a
bride. Her frock of white Chantilly was
long, its full sides widening into a long
foamy wash of train, and, flowing like the
head dress of some mediaeval lady, the veil
of silk ninon cascaded from its slightly
mitred coronet of marguerites. The sleeves
of the dress were long and tight, and the
square neck was modestly high. To the
noble strains of Lohengrin’s Wedding March
the small white shoes walked their gleaming
way. A string of pearls and a basket heaped
with posies of marguerites, lily of the valley
and white violets helped the fragrant effect.
Nevin Tait armed Toti to the surrender.
Two small girls in Kate Greenaway high-
waisted frocks of white chiffon topped by
glistening hunches of black curls under poke
bonnets followed Toti’s train, and two small
pages in white satin suits and Gainsbrough
felt hats walked ahead bearing the white
satin cushions on which bride and groom
were to kneel. The Nuptial Mass was said
by Father Francesco, while Dean Crowley
made the twain one. Soprano Arangi Lom-
bardi sang like an angel two “Ave Marias,”
Schubert’s and Mercadante’s, and Massenet’s
“Meditation” was played.
Then came the exit into College-street
and into the bride’s car, its bonnet deco-
rated with an outsize silver true-love’s
knots; flowers decked the top of the car, and
these trailed away at the back into bars of
music on which the names “Toti” and “Enzo”
were harmonised. But Toti and her groom
had hardly entered the car before the crowd
had practically stripped it of ribbons and
flowers. And before the hordes had left the
Cathedral all the pretty decorations had been
looted and souvenired : even the silver baskets
of peach-blossom in the sanctuary had been
emptied.
About 300 actually partook of the feast at
Romano’s, and of the white and red wine and
the gallons of champagne that flowed and
bubbled. At the foot of the lily- and palm-
decked stairway was moored a gondola of
flowers. Fore and aft in this stood dimpling
Toti and her husband, and when compatriots
approached the embraces were so fervid that
a mere vulgar Australian in the throng cried
•out: “Sit down, you’re rocking the boat!”
Permanent first-nighters were there by the
dozen, with the satisfied smile of those get-
ting something of their own back. The
Arthur Allen clan turned up in force, as
did the Nott family; and the whole Con
servatorium appeared to be taking the after-
noon off. Came George Lambert, rather
tired-looking, but determined to be the life
of the party. Charlie Westmacott arrived
looking as though he’d breakfasted on a
lemon. John Longstaff was talking to the
amiable Amneris Zinetti. She was in cream
marocains, and her frock sported a graceful
cape. Joan Norton’s white frock was cut
into a deep neck V at the back; a good-
looking McElhone girl sat with her mother ;
E. J. Tait danced between courses with Lina
Scavizzi, her white ninons topped by a pretty
pink hat, but her shoes serviceable walk-
abouts. Dattilo Rubbo was there; and Mrs.
Frank Albert, her magnificent coat combin-
ing royal blue brocade and chinchilla. And
eating and drinking of the best and com-
pletely one of the party sat Toti’s maid, com-
placently smiling above a Maltese-lace collar.
The girl who does Toti’s nails and the girl
who does Toti’s complexion-polishing were
others who bobbed up happily at various
tobies; and on these bosoms the plump white
dove figuratively flung herself during the
congratulation issue. One begins to under-
stand the secret of Toti’s popularity.
A crystal rose-bowl, as big as a bath, was
the E. J. Tait wedding present. A red-
lacquer vase of Chinese workmanship was
sent by the Arthur Rickards. Italy’s Con-
sul-General's card lay beside a high bronze
jar. A blooming lily of the valley in a
silver pot conveyed congratulations from
Belgium’s Consular Segaerts. There were
gold and silver clocks, and a hundred-weight
of boomerangs, and a fascinating dressing-
table set of tortoise-shell and silver. And
there was a gramophone for them to hear
how not nearly so good their rivals sound in
the same arias.
In the evening Mrs. Newrich greeted Mr.
Tait at Her Majesty’s. “Oh, I saw you to-
day, Mr. Tait, but I didn’t have a chance
to speak. Wasn’t it a wonderful perform-
ance !” And maybe she still can’t under-
stand why Mr. Tait almost immediately
found something else needing his attention.
This girl with the type of face beloved by
Leonardo da Vinci is Jean Lindsay, daughter
of artist Lionel, and artist and poet too in
her own right.
Jean was one
of the clever
younger stu-
dents of Julian
Ashton’s Syd-
ney Art School,
and her verse
has appeared
at irregular
intervals. A
week or two
ago she be-
ca m e Mrs.
Noel Charley
at St. An-
drew’s kirk at
Colombo. The
young man is
the eldest son
of Major and
Mrs. Philip
Charley, of
Richmond
(N. S. W.).
The honeymoon was spent in Ceylon; the
future home is in India.
Toti dal Monte, smiling like a plump
cherub between a small petunia .velvet hat
and a Peter Pan collar, and wearing her
round little feet in black and white check
shoes, was in high feather at the luncheon
in honor of her marriage. The Italo-Aus-
tralian Newspaper Co. was the host. Before
Toti’s plate stood a basket of violets, car-
nations and lily of the valley, its tall handle
woven of pansies; and tied to this by a
silver cord was a tiny posy of forget-me-nots.
The offering came from Town Clerk Layton
and Mrs. Layton. Mr. Layton made a
speech, too. nearly as lyric as Toti’s sing-
ing. Mr. Holman, whose wife wore one of
the new capes to greet the spring, turned
on a silver stream of oratory, and Captain
Lubrano was another who hymned applause
of the mating songbirds. Toti had much
to say to her neighbors, and said it with a
smiling vivacity that tantalised those who
could see but not hear.
The visitors to the Eucharistic Congress
are quietly getting dug into Sydney hostels,
boarding-houses and flats. Monsignor
O’Haran has thrown his new presbytery in
Darlinghurst open to a small company of
titled churchmen. The .Actor Flats harbor
one or two; the new Catholic Women’s
Hostel is sounding like the tower of Babel;
and all around the city and suburbs, in
companies of twos and threes, the visitors
are being billeted. The venerable Arch-
bishop Redwood. 90 years young, is a
distinguished' arrival from Maoriland; an
academic giant from the same volcanic soil is
Bishop Cleary, who just missed being called
the “boy bishop” when the Vatican a long
time ago gave him a see. The quiet little
doctor has a talent for establishing Catho-
lic papers. He started the Tablet in Dune-
din an-d is now governing voice in the
Auckland Month. His associate editor,
•T. I*. Cavanagh, an Auckland solicitor,
comes with him. Father Martindale, a dis-
tinguished scholar, has arrived from Eng-
land ; and Vicar-General Jean Tambon, of
Tripoli, looks tike a Michelangelo model
with his long flowing white beard and hair,
his handsome nose and his piercing dark
eyes. An old friend of Sydney’s is Brother
Basil, a former rector of the Marist Col-
lege at Hunter's Hill, who arrived last
week from Enzed.
Tenors in one glassed room, basses behind
the glass walls of another, the luscious
notes of contraltos beating against the sides
of a third, mounting soprano sounds from
a fourth and fifth —that was how the dif-
ferent parts of the Mass to be sung at the
Cathedral next Sunday were practised. So
one group of the 400 voices was not forced
to inaction while the others were put
through their paces. Then finally, every
evening, all the 400 plus the 32 instruments
gathered in the school hall, and the work,
Mitterer’s Mass, was gone through in its
entirety. This Mass has never before been
sung in Sydney. The slim, dark-eyed Dr.
I’ettorelli will conduct the impressive work,
St. Mary’s organist, 11. B. Dawkins, will be
at his usual post, and T. C. Talty, who has
carried out the organising of this part of
the Congress, will be able to hear the result
of his labors and call it blessed.
On Sunday morning the great choir gath-
ered in the Town Ilall and went right
through its programme for the Eucharistic
concert next Tuesday. There was a big
audience, mainly composed of nuns and
brothers listening to the great spiritual
choral works, which included “Ave Verum,”
by Dom Moreno, a Benedictine now en-
gaged in missionary work at New Norcia, in
nor’-west Westralia. It is a noble com-
position, a worthy addition to the great
literature of church music. Mrs. Osmond
Jolly and Dr. Bartolini, from Melbourne,
who are to take solo parts in the music
festival, sang at the rehearsal.
Count Casclla Tamburini showed his por-
trait of Pope Pius XI. to a group of Sydney
artists and friends at his flat in the Astor
last week. The sketches for this portrait
were made while the Pope was at prayer in
the Sistine Chapel, and show a face at
once devout and purposeful and the hands
and shoulders of a powerful man. The com-
position, apparently so simple, abounds in
the most delicate detail. The caped vest-
ment worn by Pius in this picture is of
rich gold material, the embossed design
brought out, as is the design of its jewelled
clasp. The portrait will hang in the Sanc-
tuary of St. Mary’s throughout the Congress.
All Who’s Who travelled out to the
Palais one night last week to wave a fare-
well flipper at the popular De Chairs. A
committee had seized the opportunity of
doing something for the T.B. Soldiers and
Sailors, and tickets were a guinea apiece.
Elizabeth Knox organised the success ; Mrs.
R. C. I-lagon was the president. Delft blue
fringed and chenille-embossed georgettes en-
wrapped her State Ex. The pale green back-
ground of Elaine’s ninon frock was pat-
terned with emerald-green velvet leaves. Mrs.
Bavin and her Premier came on after the
Scouts’ Ball in David Jones’s, and she was
colorful in rosy georgettes, gipsyish with
sequins, while daughter Shirley footed it
in a swirl of black taffeta. Elizabeth Knox
mingled black lace and lily of the valley.
By clashing with the much-advertised wed-
ding of the two Italian opera singers, and by
not engaging somebody to stage-manage it,
the departure of the Governor of the State
was almost entirely overlooked by the press
camera. Even that quavering trumpet of
loyalty, the S. M. Herald, could spare space
for only one little picture of the King’s
representative, his w T ife and daughter as they
stood on the Niagara. About a half-column
was all any of the papers could spare
for the De Chairs, while pages were given
to Hallelujahs over Toti. Sir Dudley goes to
England, but Lady de Chair and Elaine
leave the Niagara at Fiji—Shirley Bavin
makes the trip with them. Ailsa Cullen
was .at the boat with her distinguished father,
who will be Lieut.-Governor till the vice-
res. return. The Premier Bavins and son
John and Marcia Allen and Civic Commis-
sioner Fleming and General Anderson and
his artistic wife were others in the farewell
party. But Mrs. Walter Swanson had said
her farewells with flowers, and a great
basket of blooms from her North Shore gar-
den held pride of place in the Yice-reine’s
cabin.
Granton Macleod Jones, eldest grandson
of The Bulletin’s former managing direc-
tor William Macleod—of whom the office
always thinks with deep affection —collected
a pretty bride with the pretty name of Sibyl
Primrose to take to his W.A. farm. The
wedding was a large affair, and wandered
on from St. Paul’s Church in Ivogarali to
the local Masonic Hall. The bride’s youth-
ful good looks emerged in triumph from
tulle planned on early-Victorian lines.
Three schoolgirl ’maids attended to the silver-
embroidered train—a sister of the bride, a
cousin and Nanette, sister of the bride-
groom. Ronald Macleod, only surviving son
of The Bulletin’s old chief, was best man.
Frank Jones, the ’groom’s father, was too
ill to be present. The pair left the party
to the strains of “My Little Grey Home in
the West.”
Fay, only daughter of the Laurie Kings,
of Mosman, has promised to help young
Cecil Cook with his briefs, lie is a son of
ex-Commissioner Joseph and one of the
great successes of the junior Bar; she is a
dainty little girl who finds time to mix good
works with her butterflying—she is very fond
of her Woolloomooloo Kindergarten kiddies.
The wedding will not take place until well
into next year.
Say how-do-you-do to Dame Mary Hughes,
wife of the redoubtable Billy, one-time Pri-
minister of Australia and, they say, a not
impossible Priminister of the future. The
Dame, who is
actively inter-
ested in til?
Arts, is a vice-
president of
the newly-
formed Turret
Theatre a
movement
from which
organiser Don
Findley hopes
will spring the
National
Drama of Aus-
tralia. The old
council cham-
bers at Mil-
son’s Point
are being con-
verted into a
tiny Art
Theatre, and
here plays of
poetic and psy-
cliological drama will be produced in addi-
tion to those with a more widely* popular
appeal. Already the movement has gained
sound financial backing, and the enthusiasts
who are hoisting the flag, being wise in their
day and generation, are registering p limited
liability company in the most business-like
manner.
The Town Hall regained some of its de-
parted splendor last week. Heavily decked
with garlands of flowers, with bunting and
trails of busnland green, it welcomed the
Masonic brethren of the Eastern Suburbs on
the matronly bosom of its dance arena. The
Viking came, and was shrilly piped to the
dais by sturdy bos’ns from 11.M.A.5. Pen-
guin. It sounded so like the knock-off
whistle that a general rush for coats and
liatg seemed imminent. Brethren in full
regalia . lent atmosphere to the Governor’s
entrance; in the rear came Official Secre-
tary Budge, a Boswell sleuthing his Johnson.
Grand Master Goulston received the official
party, which included the Chief Justice
Streets, the Civic Commissioner Flemings
and Minister for Health Richard Arthur.
Fifteen pretty young things in white and
silver, their way to the dais arched in
roses, were greeted by Sir Dudley and by
Lady Street. This greeting turning them
into social butterflies, they floated to the
strains of the “Blue Danube” down their
rosy path again. It was all very pretty and
symbolic. The object of the ball was to
raise funds for an Eastern Suburbs District
Hospital, the ground for which has been
bought.
T. 11. Kelly is leaving his beloved Rose
Bay Golf Club and his directorships, and
will be met next month at Naples by his
wife, whose European headquarters are in
Florence. They have a remarkably clever
small boy at Eton, and she writes novels in
the intervals of visiting him, looking after
her daughters, and running an immense
Florentine flat.
The lion of Scotland ramped amiably
enough above the Old Boys of Scots’ College
at the Ambassadors last week. The school’s
blue and gold make striking decorations,
and as the committee was clever enough to
time the dance for the daffodil season, there
was no shortage of golden blooms. D. 11.
Souter apparently inspired the wicked-
looking black cats that leered from the
shoulders of committee members. With his
hives of learning stored and sealed for the
night, Princinal Bee decided to be a happy
drone, and Mrs. Bee, in black lace, smil-
ingly abetted him. President of the Old
Boys' Union E. R. Cox and Mrs. Cox enter-
tained the usual bunch of representatives
from other schools.


AUSTRALIA TO ENGLAND VIA SUEZ.
pASSENGERS leaving Australia in November,
December or early January arrive in Egypt
during the Season, and a most enjoyable time
may be had visiting some of the many places of
interest. The Egyptian Season lasts from Decem-
ber till February, and inclusive itineraries can be
arranged for passengers wishing to spend a holi-
day there or in Palestine before going on for the
European Seasons.
ORIENT LINE
2-4-6 SPRING STREET - - SYDNEY
Amusements,
THE REGENT
Australia’s Most Luxurious Theatre.
(Direction Hoyt’s Theatres, Ltd.)
The Home of
the Superior Motion Picture
and the Effective Presentation.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
OUR SONS.
The Motion Picture aimed straight at the heart of Humanity.
empire theatre,
Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Twice Daily, 2.15 and 8.
MONSTER DOUBLE BILL,
The Fox Motion Picture
MOTHER MACHREE
And the Tabloid Musical Comedy
MODELS.
Prices 1/6 to 4/6.
Reserves: MAIOOO, and all leading booking offices.
g Y DNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J C WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: GRAND OPERA.
ROYAL: THE SILENT HOUSE.
CRITERION: OTHER MEN’S WIVES.
PALACE:
THE LUCK OF THE NAVY.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
lIIS MAJESTY’S: HIT THE DECK.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE PATSY.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE.
THE HIGH ROAD.
ATHENAEUM THEATRE,
** MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
E. J. CARROLL presents
By arrangement with Richard White and Eric Edgley,
WHITE COLLARS.
Three acts of delicious comedy—with a laugh
in every line.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
II MELBOURNE.
WALLACE BEERY and RAYMOND HATTON as
WIFE SAVERS.
* ALSO
DON’T MARRY.
With LOIS MORAN.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
A LLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-
WATTS in Plays of SHAKSPEARE.
SUBURBAN TOUR:
Chatswood, Hoyt’s Theatre, Aug. 29 (“Twelfth
Night”) ; Aug. 30 (Henry VIII.”).
Sydney Rep.: J. V, de Ratyn, Box 2229, Sydney.
’Phone: MA1277.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* NEXT SATURDAY.
DOLORES COSTELLO in
THE MASTER PICTURE,
THE HEART OF MARYLAND.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
1 SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The Royale Syncopators Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND.
No. 257 of 1928.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
Mr. Justice Webb. Mr. Justice Woolcock.
BETWEEN AUBREY HARRISON KERLIN Plaintiff
and EDITH MONA KERLIN Defendant
and WALTER HOAVARD Co-defendant.
To EDITH MONA KERLIN and AVALTER
HOWARD both formerly of Murwillumbah in the
State of New South Wales but whose present where-
abouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been com-
menced against you in the Supreme Court of Queens-
land at Brisbane in the State of Queensland Number
257 of 1928 by Aubrey Harrison Kerlin in which
he claims a dissolution of his marriage wdth you
Edith Mona Kerlin and by a Petition filed in the
said Court on the eighteenth day of May 1928 he
alleges that on or about the seventeenth and
eighteenth days of March 1928 at Murwillumbah you
the said Edith Mona Kerlin and you the said Walter
Howard committed adultery with one another AND
it has been ordered that service on you of the
amended Writ of Summons by filing and by fixing
on the Notice Board in the said Registry a copy of
the said amended Writ of Summons and by posting
in a prepaid letter addressed to each of you at
your last known address a copy of the amended
Writ of Summons and the publication of this adver-
tisement shall be good and sufficient service.
IF you desire to defend this action you must
within eight days from the date of the last act
done in pursuance of the said order enter an appear-
ance at the Registry of the Supreme Court at Bris-
bane aforesaid and in default of such appearance
judgment may be entered against you.
DATED this twenty-third day of August 1928.
(L.s.) D. M. O’FLYNN.
Deputy Registrar.
B. M. SHEPHERD, Solicitor for Plaintiff,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
The Little Sisters
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin went to
Ascot for the Challenge Stakes, and Sir John
made a valiant attempt to decorate High
Syce, the winner, with a floral horsehoe, but
High Syce was hungry and proceeded to
make a meal of the blossomry, which had
to be retrieved and hung on the part owner,
W. J. Noud. The Q.T.C. entertained his
Ex. at iunch. Lady Goodwin and Mrs.
Campbell arrived later, Lady Goodwin wear-
ing a grey tailor-made with an ivory vest
and an ivory and black velvet pandan hat.
Mrs. Campbell’s navy repp was worn with a
navy velour hat. They had tea with the
committee. Mrs. W. Danaher had a party
on the committee-room verandah, the hostess
wearing sapphire blue with a paribuntle
straw hat.
The Goodwins were at the Queensland
Tennis Club’s dance in Rowe’s winter gar-
den caf6. Colonel and Mrs. Campbell and
Major Wolff were with them. Palms and
bowls of sweet-pea 5 and Iceland poppies
decorated. Lady Goodwin wore black Chan-
tilly, beaded in silver, under .an evening-
coat of floral lame; Mrs. Campbell was in
cornflower-blue; Mrs. A. S. Roe in tange-
rine ; Mrs. F. Fogarty in black sequined
mariette. Dr. and Mrs. Roe and Mr. and
Mrs. Fogarty received the vice-regals and
her Ex. was presented with Iceland poppies.
The 49th had their dance in the Trocadero,
decked, for the occasion with pink roses in
buds and sprays, with more roses twined in
the latticed alcoves. Colonel Craven and
Captains Hardy and Sutcli were the com-
mittee, and there was a large roll-up of
officers and pretty girls.
Gladys Gault had a dance at the National,
and on the same evening the O’Connor boat-
house was lit up for the Ladies’ Rowing
Club shivoo. In the Age building in the
afternoon there was a kiddies’ ball given in
aid of the Holy Name Cathedral fund. Blue
and white streamers and palms made a fes-
tive show at the last-named affair.
The engagement was announced last week
of Elizabeth Carew Smyth, only child of
the late Walter Carew Smyth and Mrs.
Smyth, Toowong, to Kenneth Graham, of
Tenby, Wales. The attractive little lady
will go back to her mother’s maiden name
when she weds, as Mrs. Smyth was a
daughter of the late William Graham, an
old-time member of our Plush Chambah, and
owner of St. Ronans and other station pro-
perties.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Comforts to ease the suffering of poorer
patients at St. John of God Hospital will
result from the profits of the Free Ward
Ball held in Government House ballroom.
Mrs. Wilford Mitchell was president of the
very efficient committee. She welcomed his
Ex. in black georgette with a gleaming shoul-
der ornament. Justice Walter Dwyer and his
wife, who was in champagne satin and georg-
ette with a pointed hem of sequins, were
among visitors to the v.-r. cubby-hole. Maude
Mitchell was in vieux rose, thickly embroid-
ered with sequins; her sister Milly wore
orchid georgette, and Gertie Mitchell sported
an unusual frock of black satin. Black lace
with pink flower embroideries over shell-pink
satin formed Mrs. John Walsh’s graceful
gown; Beryl Seward wore blue and rose
lame and a silver shawl; Faith Flintoff was
in cornflower-blue flounces of net and taf-
fetas, and Eileen Hayes chose a delightful
frock of ciel-blue georgette over pale pink.
Twelve years ago this lady, then Eve
Morris and one of the star pupils of Adelaide
Con., rejected
Melba’s sug-
gestion of fur-
ther musical
training i n
Paris in favor
of a husband
and a home.
She continued
her study of
singing and the
piano, and as
Mrs. N. E.
Moran has
played im-
portant rdles
in many of the
Concert
A r t i s t s’
operas. Three
years ago from
a handful of
her pupils and
musical friends
she formed the
Ladies’ Odhon Society, Perth’s first ladies’
choir,' which now has a full muster of 60
voices. Under her skilful baton the choir
won three prizes at musical festivals. Bart-
letto made the portrait.
The children’s party in Government House
ballroom set the Free Kindergarten ball roll-
ing for the annual appeal week. Over 600
lucky young folk in fancy costumes spent a
blissful four hours in Fairyland. There was
a eurhythmic display by Miss Hinrick’s
students, a fairy dance, a Japanese dance
and a solo by Joan Priest, all arranged by
Linley Wilson. The Fairy Queen made a
spectacular entry in a silver ’plane. Mrs.
Robin McMillan’s small son and daughter
looked like Romeo and Juliet in white satin.
Pretty Pat and Nancy Meagher were paper
flowers, and Bunty Poole was a blue sprite.
High tea, with a silver aeroplane favor upon
each plate, wound up a rapturous evening.
Afterwards schoolboys and -girls and a
sprinkling of grown-ups took the floor for
a dance.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Campbell Town was the centre of festivi-
ties at the end of the hunting season for
1928. Hunt races took place on the coldest
day of the year, which froze the enthusi-
asm of the crowd a little, but everybody
rolled up bravely to see Margaret O’Grady
(who was the guest of the Jim Melroses)
present the trophies to the prize-winners.
Among those who defied blue noses and
watering eyes were the Norman Fields, Mr.
and Mrs. Tom Dowling, the Jim Melroses, the
Eustace Cameron girls, Mrs. J. D. Foster
and daughter Dorothy, George Browns, Zee-
rust Clarke, George Reaches, Ivo Agnews
and Mrs. Rupert Chesterman. The contin-
gent which went up from Hobart included
Mrs. Geoffrey Chapman, Sybil Lyons and
Madge Parker. Northerners and the West-
ern districts were well represented also.
The night before the Hunt Club races at
Campbell Town a committee of women, with
Mrs. Crosby Lyne as lion, sec., gave a well-
arranged dance in Powell’s Hall. Mrs. Frank
Brown, the season’s bride, looked a picture
in shell-pink and sequins; Mrs. Jim Melrose
wore rose-red georgette and crystal head-
ings ; Zeerust Clarke’s dark beauty was in-
tensified by peach-pink colorings; Alison
Cameron wore black lace over pink.
Myra Gillon, whose enigmatic smile has been
registered here by a Burgess Watt camera, is
our pet contralto. She is well known in
Sydney, where she sang with success on
many occasions when studying there under
Signor Guido
Cacialli and
Joseph Brad-
ley. Her first
teacher was
Madame Josie
Miles, of Ho-
bart. After
passing her
R.A.M. and
R.C.M. exams.
Miss Gill on
won her
L.A.B. diplo-
ma in 1921.
While in Syd-
ney she sang
for the Itoyal
I'll ilharmonic,
Welsh Choral
and Madrigal
societies, and
she also sup-
ported the
English tenor
Arthur Gordon in his recitals, and was one
of the 2BL singers—her name appears on
the programme of the first concert broad-
cast in Australia. Since returning to her
native State tvyo years ago she has been
much in request by concert organisers.
The Uni. Ball at the Town Ilall was a
crowded affair, but very well engineered.
His Ex. attended with a party comprising
Vice-Chancellor and Mrs. W. Stops, the
Registrar and Mrs. L. R. Thomas, Prof, and
Mrs. Burn, Lieut.-Col. and Mrs. Cox Tay-
lor, Commander and Mrs. J. C. McFarlane,
Major and Mrs. D. M. Williams, Mrs. A.
P. Crisp, Marjorie Hodgman. and Henry
Allport, and, of course, N. E. Somers and
Lieut.-Col A. P. Crisp in attendance. The
decorations were in the Uni. colors, and the
supper tables, decorated by Mrs. Burn, were
gay with almond blossom and primroses.
Quite a number of black frocks were worn
with good effect.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The dance for the St. Peter’s College
Mission, always one of the best of the sub-
scription revels, was at the Floating Palais,
which, as a matter of fact, was not float-
ing at the moment, but sitting snug on one
oi the mudbanks that make up our winter
river scenery. The Hore-Ruthvens were
there, her Ex. in rose and gold tissue, and
Mrs. Verney in gold lace and palest pink
georgette. One of the smartest frocks was
fresh from the trunks of a returned voyager,
black georgette that merged into pale pink
and silver for bodice ; and one of this season’s
debs, was charming in silver-beaded green
georgette. The dance was run, as usual, by a
committee, of girls with half a dozen matrons
to furnish moral support, and an excel-
lent account they gave of themselves.
There was dancing the same night at the
Town Hall, where the Rotarians were the
hosts, and the hall was bedecked with the
club’s orange and black. ’Twas a fund
raising show, and few methods of shilling-
extraction were overlooked. There were
hats, from the frankly ludicrous to the really
beautiful; there were balloons, and there
were false noses. Balloons have lost their
lure as an incitement to revelry, but it i 3
amazing what follies stout and reputable
citizens will rise to when fitted with noses
of kaleidoscopic color and revolting shape.
August is the month dedicated by custom
and tradition to snow —we don’t always get
it —but for the Grand National meeting it
was hot enough to set women looking at last
summer's wardrobe to see if anything could
be done about it, or wishing they had done
their spring shopping. For the most part
they fell back on winter tweeds and furs,
but there were some bits of spring, chiefly
expressed in jumper suits. Of those some-
thing very smart was on one of the younger
set—Madonna blue, perfect as to cut.
Lady Hore-Ruthven went on from a bazaar
at Trinity Church to present the prizes at
the Woodlands School sports, and was at
the annual meeting of the District Trained
Nurses’ Society, where she made a character-
istically sympathetic speech. With his Ex.
she visited Gwen Barringer’s exhibition of
pictures, which was one of the most attrac-
tive hung here for some time and eloquent
of what an already clever artist can learn
oversea.
Cherkassky’s reputation preceded him, but
we feel, like the lady in the Bible, that the
half had not been told us. His audiences
have shown real appreciation, and he has
given them, exacting programmes in the
apparently effortless way that encourages
the encore fiend to forgot how exacting they
are. He has not had much time for social
functions, but the Con. gave him a recep-
tion whereat staff and students combined
to do him honor.


WE ARE THE AGENTS.
the
e
" bulldog "
HAMMERLES&
A GREAT
GUN AT A
LOW PRICE
THE BULLDOG is the wonder Gun for £B/10/-.
Quadruple bolted, with side clips, fluid steel barrels,
guaranteed Government tested for any charge. It
fits the shoulder perfectly, and is beautifully balanced.
HOLLOWAYS, the Gem of English Guns. Hit hard,
carry far, throwing surprising patterns. Prize
winners everywhere. £ll to £65. Unbeatable.
THE FOX D.B. Wonderful Hammerless, with or without
Ejector. They kill at remarkable distances. £l3 & £l5.
WESTERN ARMS CO. GUNS, £4 & £6. Great field guns.
Special concessions to promising shots. A week’s Free
Trial given. Obtainable everywhere, or write the
Agents for Catalogue.
S. COHEN, SONS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
452-460 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
and Ballarat.
Agents wanted where not represented.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Hi
A
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
South Australia’s Most Modern
Hotel is
Piper’s
Hotel Richmond
128-130 Rundle St., Adelaide.
Now Open to Receive Guests.
Hot and cold water and telephones
in every bedroom.
Rooms with private bath. Every con-
venience for comfort of guests.
Tariff, inclusive Board, 22/6 per day.
Private Bathrooms extra.
A limited number single rooms 20/-
per day.
Telephone: Central 606.
W. A. I'll"EH, Proprietor.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
THE RING
by CHARLES BLAKE.
MR. JUSTICE MORLING sat in his
room in the gloomy old Supreme Cour:
buildings. It was ten o’clock in the
morning and Court did not open till eleven,
but he was getting old and had to spend more
time over his cases than when he first
ascended the Bench. The evidence of the
previous day’s hearing of the civil special-
jury case McArthur v. Brindle and ors.,
neatly typed by his associate, lay before him,
and his own case-book, resplendent in red
morocco binding, was open, revealing the
neat, clerkly script of the old Judge—an
upright, engrossing hand in which the “d’s”
looked like little curly-stalked pears. But
he paid no attention to these. He sat very
still, a rather pathetic, shrunken little figure
in his old-fashioned cutaway coat —thinking.
For the first time in a well-filled life he
felt terribly friendless and alone. He
needed help, sympathy, encouragement, and
there was none to whom he could turn. His
physical strength was at its last ebb; his
memory had begun to play him treacherous
tricks. He ought to retire. He knew well
enough that that was his plain duty. But
the devil of it was he couldn’t afford to do
it. Advised by one whom he had regarded
as his closest friend, he had invested in a
concern which promised dividends but had
been productive only of calls which had ex-
hausted his resources. To retire and take
his pension would mean bankruptcy and a
dishonorable end to a distinguished career.
To seek leave on grounds of ill-health at the
crucial stage of a case that was occupying
the attention of the whole country would
play into the hands of those who considered
he should be told to retire. Anyway, his
malady wasn’t organic. Despite his years
he was as sound as a bell. Dr. Manning
had testified to that only a month ago, and
Manning didn’t make mistakes.
It was now a month —29 days to be exact
—since the McArthur-Brindle trial had
commenced, and he had first set eyes on
Grange, K.C. Grange had come from Eng-
land, why nobody exactly knew, and had
gained admittance to the Bar of his new
domain. The old Judge shuddered. He
traced all his troubles to Grange. Grange,
masterful, overbearing, charged with some
horrible unkillable vitality that made one
think of a shark, a crocodile or a snake.
Those reddish-brown eyes that in tense
moments glowed like rubies ! Grange, who
bullied witnesses, demoralised opposing coun-
sel and overbore—yes, overbore —the Judge!
And Grange, as his Honor had ample private
proof, was as crooked as he was clever. It
was said he hypnotised witnesses and juries.
Judge Morling could well believe it. Grange
had won case after case by getting before
juries inadmissible evidence —evidence of wit-
nesses so flustered and distracted that they
failed to notice the significance of the infer-
ences or admissions into which they were
badgered. And the worst of it all was that
Grange held Morling’s future in the hollow
of his pudgy hand. His was now the master-
mind behind the grossly fraudulent company
flotation in which the Judge’s fortune was
being slowly but surely swallowed up. Grange
had only to slightly accelerate the process to
ruin Judge Morling.
He had been firm with Grange at the out-
set, the old Judge reflected, but the daily battle
of wills had worn him down. For the last
three days, during the examination and cross-
examination of McArthur, the plaintiff, he
had been merely Grange’s echo and puppet.
He hated and despised himself for it, but it
was a fact.
The case was notable not only on account
of the vastness of the monetary issues at
stake, but for the sensational accusations of
fraud and conspiracy made by the plaintiff.
McArthur claimed to be the inventor of the
Guttstein internal combustion turbine, a
motor which possessed so many advantages
over all other types of power generator that
it already threatened to dominate the whole
power field. It was established that
McArthur had sold his interests and patents
in a petrol turbine to a syndicate headed
by Brindle, on what looked very attractive
terms —a ten-years’ contract to give his ser-
vices as chief engineer at £lO,OOO a year,
and a block of shares amounting to four-
ninths of the entire issue. It was estab-
lished, also, by the defence, that the tur-
bines made under McArthur’s supervision had
failed to work. They absolutely refused to
turn over. Without giving McArthur any
opportunity of investigating the cause of
failure, the company dismissed him and went
into voluntary liquidation. The plant and
the McArthur patents, the principal assets of
the company, were put up at auction and
bought in by Brindle and his crowd for a
mere song. A new company was floated.
A new engineer from Germany, Otto Gutt-
stein, was employed, and, according to the
defence, rectified glaring errors of principle,
construction and design in the McArthur
motor and turned the utter failure into a
triumphant success. All this looked a bit
fishy to everyone, but the fishiest thing of
all about the case was that McArthur’s
model motor, which certainly did work and
was the basis of the first flotation, had dis-
appeared, and with it five skilled workmen
who assisted McArthur to build the first
large-size experimental turbine for the com-
pany. McArthur swore that these men had
entered into a conspiracy with Brindle to
depart from his designs and instructions and
ensure that the first demonstration should
be a failure. But he couldn’t prove it. The
jury had before it McArthur’s original plans
and specifications and Guttstein’s designs, on
which patents were pending. But the tech-
nical questions involved were extraordinarily
knotty, and a mass of expert testimony on
both sides had only succeeded in bewildering
both Judge and jury. Grange averred for
the defence that the mysterious disappear-
ance of model and workmen was engineered
by McArthur to cover up his own failure.
“He half rose from his seat and -pointed a minatory finger at Grange. There was a
tremendous menace in his attitude, but his words, when they came, were cold as
icicles. ‘I shall adjourn this case.... I refuse to see Mr. Grange.’”
McArthur’s counsel, Hewitson, K.C., was
an elderly and able lawyer of the fine old
crusted gentlemanly school—quite the wrong
sort of man to oppose to Grange. Grange
had discovered his weak points by the end
of the first day and had ever since kept the
old gentleman in a state of exasperation in
which he was rather worse than useless to
his client. Hewitson’s junior was so terrified
of Grange that lie could scarcely put a
coherent question. McArthur, in the box,
had been made to contradict himself, con-
fuse his dates, and confess to mistakes of
memory.
Yet Morling, J., was convinced that
McArthur was a witness of truth and that
most of those on. the other side were uncon-
scionable liars. He felt that he could have
won McArthur’s case for him had he been at
the Bar and in his heyday, and if—this
was a big “if” —Grange had been left out
of the equation. But Grange was super-
human. There was no other word by which
to describe him.
To-day, the fourth of McArthur’s exami-
nation, would decide the case, and also the
fate of Judge Morling. His subservience to
Grange had not gone unnoticed. Public
opinion was strong against Brindle and his
gang—their reputation was most unsavory—
and McArthur’s record as an employer—he
had been a manufacturer of farm tractors in
a fairly large way before he joined up with
Brindle —was that of an honest, fair-
dealing, generous-hearted man. There had
been a secret deputation from the Bar Asso-
ciation to McCullough, the Premier —Morling
had had wind of it—which had suggested
that Morling ought to be asked to retire on
the ground that he was no longer able to
effectively exercise judicial functions. The
Judge had received no word from McCullough,
who was one of his oldest friends, but he
had the feeling that judgment was merely
suspended.
There came a tap on the door and the
Judge aroused himself from his gloomy
reverie. Only old Bleezer, the usher, to
remind him that it was time to don wig
and gown and ascend the Bench. The Judge
nodded gravely, rose from his seat and
opened the tall closet where ho kept his
official garb. Just inside the door was a
portrait of his girl-wife, dead these forty
years, taken on their honeymoon when he
was a struggling young solicitor, not yet
called to the Bar, and she —well, she was
just Peggy. His lip quivered as he regarded
the well-loved features. He had buried
most of his heart, he thought sadly, when
she was laid beneath the sod so young and
small. Plow she would have rejoiced over
his judgeship! And how she would have
sorrowed had she known that at the last
he would prove unfaithful to his high office!
The old man’s head drooped. He could not
meet those clear honest eyes. He stood
there remembering things he had not thought
upon for many a year. Full of superstitions
was Peg. How often had he laughed at
her over her wonderful family heirloom, the
massive old signet ring that, so she implicitly
believed, belonged, once upon a time to Jef-
freys, the terrible hanging Judge, whom she
claimed as one of her ancestors! Because
it pleased her Morling had worn that ring
for years. Peg had no respect for her wicked
old ancestor’s memory, but she said he was
an overpoweringly masterful man, and
family tradition had it that the ring was
the talisman that made him so.
A masterful man. The old Judge re-
flected that Jeffreys must have been just
such another man as Grange—and as he
himself had been in the days when he
swept from triumph to triumph as a great
jury advocate. What had he done with that
ring? He had forgotten it for months.
Bleezer again tapped discreetly at the
door. It was one minute to eleven. The
Judge lifted his gown from the hook, ad-
justed it and his bands, and groped in the
round tin box for his wig. His shaky old
fingers dipped to the bottom of the box,
where they touched something small and
heavy—the ring; Peg’s ring; perhaps Judge
Jeffreys’ ring. With a half-smile the Judge
turned to the door.
“Silence for ’Sonah the King’s Judge,”
barked Bleezer. and a little figure in flut-
tering gown and short-bottomed wig dodged
nimbly up the steps to his throne under the
canopy that bore the royal arms. On the
forefinger of his right hand was the fat
old signet ring that may, or may not, have
belonged to the most infamous Judge in
history.
Grange was in great form that morning,
and he set himself to the baiting of McArthur
with an air of almost vulpine enjoyment.
McArthur, tall, spare and ascetic, was the
direct antithesis of this full-blooded bull-
necked man who was bent on his destruction.
The Judge sat immobile while the witness
was taken over the evidence of the previous
day.
Then, suddenly. Grange launched one of
his famous poison-gas attacks. “Do you know
a Mrs. Murgatroyd?” he bellowed abruptly.
The witness looked surprised. “Yes,” he
answered shortly, “she’s my sister-in-law.”
“Is your wife on good terms with her?”
“What has this to do with the case,
your Honor?” snapped Ilewitson.
“What are you leading up to, Mr.
Grange?” inquired the Judge suavely.
Grange’s blazing eyes bored into the Judge.
“A matter of character, y’r Honor,” he
said. “We’ve had witnesses as to credi-
bility and character, and I’m entitled to
rebut.”
“The evidence was elicited by yourself,
Mr. Grange, in cross-examination, and is
no part of the plaintiff’s case. Do you pro-
pose to call witnesses in rebuttal?”
“I did not propose to call any, but”——
“You need not answer the question, wit-
ness. Go on, Mr. Grange.”
Grange glared at the Judge. “I protest,
y’r Honor,” he roared. “You have no right
to make such a ruling. This man” (with a
glance at the jury) “is brought here and
represented to be a plaster saint, whereas
I propose to show”
“To prove?” interjected the Judge.
“Yes!” shouted Grange, casting discretion
to the winds in his fury. He had no wit-
nesses. But he knew that Mrs. McArthur
was an unreasonably jealous woman, and
that rumor credited her with casting a green
eye on her sister. “Yes! I’ll prove to the
hilt that the plaintiff is a betrayer of women,
a wrecker of homes, a low, dissolute scoundrel
who has no right, gentlemen of the jury,
to come into this court and take suit against
honest men. I’ll prove”
“Mr Grange!” The words from the Bench
rang out like the crack of a whip-lash.
“Y’r Honor?”
“You have questioned my right to rule
upon the admissibility of evidence, you have
made an unwarrantable attack on the moral
character of the plaintiff, and you have quite
improperly invited the jury to pay attention
to your accusations. I sit here to protect
witnesses against such assaults. I have
allowed you a great deal of latitude in con-
ducting a difficult case, but I cannot allow
you to continue your present line of cross-
examination.”
“You’ll regret that!” blazed Grange.
During this passage of arms the reporters
at the little table tucked at the foot of the
Registrar’s minor throne had been scrib-
bling busily. It isn’t every day that a lead-
ing K.C. and a Judge have such a dust-up,
especially when the Judge is as mild and
easy-going as old Morling had proved him-
self during the preceding days of the hearing.
The crowd at the rear of the court gasped
and gaped. Counsel round the horse-shoe
table looked up from their briefs and sat
back, masking excitement.
The Judge sat silent for perhaps half a
minute, and in that space of time the court
witnessed a strange metamorphosis. The
tallowy features of the old man crimsoned
and then purpled. His spare frame seemed
to expand. His aquiline nose jutted out like
the beak of a bird of prey. He half-rose
from his seat and pointed a minatory finger
at Grange. There was a tremendous menace
in his attitude, but his words, when they
came, were as cold as icicles.
“I shall adjourn this case till to-morrow
morning at eleven o’clock,” he said, “to
enable the defendants to obtain another
counsel. I refuse to see Mr. Grange.”
And before anybody could realise what
had happened the Judge had left the bench
and Bleezer had oratorically declaimed that
“The Court stands adjourned till eleven to-
morrow morning.”
To say that Grange was furious would be
to make a trivial use of the English lan-
guage. He flung himself into his big car and
drove in the direction of his office with so
little discretion that a pink-and-green taxi
with defective brakes wasn’t able to get out
of the way. Grange’s great head barged
through his own wind-screen, and they
picked him out of the wreck with a ragged
wound all round his neck. “You’d almost


\
i-'
A
m
-Vv i
s : ,
X 1 WrfS
/•
OOD style is
very akin to
good form. The
’varsities cultivate
correct manners,
while St. James’s
and the West End
contribute the cut
and fashion which
have made the Brit-
isher’s outer garb as
admirable as his
standards of conduct.
No article of wear
is more distinctive
than your hat. For
over 60 years style,
quality and value
have been embodied
in every Battersby.
HATS
FOR MEN
SOLD BY
THE BEST
HA TTERS
6b
Actual Makers:
BATTERSBY & CO., LTD.,
Stockport.
For further particulars, write —
SYDNEY:
BOX 1655JJ, G.P.O.
MELBOURNE:
BOX 364, G.P.O.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
BOX 763.
think he’d been hanged,” said the police-
surgeon.
* * * *
With Grange’s passing the cloud over
Judge Morling seemed to melt. McArthur
found some of his missing witnesses—they
had been shipped off to the Islands, but had
been picked up by the Suva police—and
their confession not only proved McArthur’s
case to the hilt, but got Brindle a five-years’
stretcli for fraud and conspiracy. In the
course of those proceedings it leaked out
that the shareholders of another concern —
the one in which the Judge had invested his
savings—had been victims of a freeze-out
ramp engineered by Grange and the same
Brindle. Under new management it pro-
duced dividends in place of calls.
McCullough wrote to Morling heartily con-
gratulating him on his next birthday, and
hinted at a knighthood. To his Cabinet
he remarked with a grin, “I haven’t heard
any more about retiring old Morling.
Asquith was right about ‘Wait and see.’
Sir Gregory Morling is still a distin-
guished ornament of the Supreme Court
Bench, where he is a terror to turbulent
counsel. When he stretches out a skinny
old forefinger decorated with a clumsy old
ring the bravest of legal tigers tremble.
He Was Foolish.
ANOTHER GRAPHIC STORY OF LIFE IN MANCHURIA, BY S. STEDMAN,
WHO WAS A DWELLER THERE FOR YEARS.
THE winter of 1910 will be long remem-
bered by those who happened to spend
it in Manchuria. In that year the
plague swept through the country, leaving
behind thousands of dead, widowed and
orphaned. It began in the small town of
Manchouli and extended along the Chinese-
Eastern Railway line until it reached Harbin.
There, and in the adjoining Chinese city of
Fudziadian, more than anywhere else, it
throve among the dirty, densely-packed dwell-
ings. Hundreds of Chinese died every day,
and their bodies were found in the streets
next morning, where they had been thrown
by their compatriots. It was their fear of the
isolation hospitals and of the quarantine
that prompted them to rid their houses of the
dead in this manner. Nor were their fears
groundless. Thousands of railway carriages
were used as hospitals—not the first- or even
the second-class carriages, but the famous
Russian red boxes on wheels upon which
was written in large letters: “This carriage
holds forty men or eight horses.”
Blair had been sent to Manchuria by an
English fur company to supervise the buying
and export of furs, and as, during the plague,
the Chinese and the Mongols refused to bring
the skins in, Blair decided to go after them.
I met him in my camp about three hundred
miles inland. For days the cold, biting winds
and snowstorms had made it impossible for
us to leave our yurta. Day after day Norbo
and I had had to sit near the fire listening
to the melancholy tune of the wind, entirely
cut off from the rest of the world. Snow,
feet deep, was piled up against the sides of
the yurta, and, though the temperature was
many degrees below zero outside, within the
tent we were warm enough.
One day when the storm was at its height
and it would have been sheer madness to
venture outside, Norbo drew my attention to
a scraping sound. We listened. A moment
later a human voice penetrated the thick
felt wall, and immediately Norbo was on his
feet struggling with the iron bar which held
the door fast against the force of the wind.
The door opened, and a man was literally
blown in, accompanied by a gust of wind
and snow.
Norbo put the half-frozen stranger at
some distance from the fire and examined
him. He found the nose, cheek-bones and
fingers frost-bitten. The two of us began
to rub the affected parts vigorously with
snow. And after a time blood returned to
the frozen white patches in the face and
fingers. I produced a glass of vodka and
offered it to the man. He drank the con-
tents in one gulp, pulled a wry face and
addressed me in broken Russian : “Po russki
ponimaesh?” (Do you understand Russian?)
When I answered in English he jumped
to his feet, looked at me incredulously, then
said, “Well, I’ll be damned !”
“You nearly were,” I said.
“You’re right, mate. It was touch and go.”
“But what brought you here and in such
foul weather?”
He hesitated and then said with anger:
“It’s all because of that damn fool of a
nigger.”
“Make it plainer,” I begged.
“These here Mongs are a funny lot,” he
said laughingly—“they don’t understand a
joke. I spent last week at a ulus buying
skins, and the evenings were pretty lonely,
so I amused myself with a girl. But when
I left she followed me. I tried in every way
to shake her off, but she wouldn’t let me
go. So yesterday, as we were resting in a
hut occupied by Chinese trappers, I decided
to give her the slip, and here I am.” He
laughed a carefree laugh.
“If anything should happen to the girl
you will be held responsible,” I said.
“Good God, I didn’t want her to come!”
he exclaimed.
“She might have loved you,” I suggested.
He laughed, but a moment later checked
himself and inquired anxiously: “I say,
mate, could you send your man to have a
talk to her, give her some silver, and make
her go back to her people?”
“Not before the storm is over,” I said.
“Will you do it afterwards?”
I promised to ask Norbo to go, whereupon
Blair had another glass of vodka, sat near
the fire smoking and talking for a while,
then stretched himself on the mat and in a
moment was fast asleep.
For long I sat looking at this man who
had managed to bring romance into a prosaic
life in which people think only of eating,
sleeping and procreating.
The following morning the wind still blew
with fury, and the air was thick with white
snow-dust. Blair looked anxiously at the
white waste before him, and, suddenly turn-
ing to me, asked: “What if the girl should
go looking for me in this blizzard?”
“Even if she does not,” I replied, “I
don’t like her being among a lot of woman-
hungry Chinese and entirely at their mercy.”
I said that because it was true, but had
I known what impression my words would
have on Blair I certainly would not have
spoken.
He looked thoughtful for a while, then
I saw him pick up the bridle.
“Surely you aren’t going out in this
weather?” I asked.
t( “Of course I am,” he answered, smiling.
“There’s a damsel in distress and I’ve got
to rescue her.”
Hotly and convincingly I argued with him,
pointing out the many dangers which threat-
ened him on the way.. In such storms all
roads are obliterated and the blinding snow
makes it impossible for one to retain any
sense of direction.
“You see, mate,” he said, “it’s really my
fault. I led the girl astray, and now I must
play the game.”
I realised the futility of further argument,
firstly because I saw his determination, and
secondly because I knew that should any-
thing happen to the girl his conscience would
give him no peace.
He went out and returned later with his
horse. Norbo helped him with the saddle,
and then Blair shook hands with me.
“Good-bye, mate. See you again soon,” he
cried, and the white steppes swallowed him.
“What do you think of him?” I asked
Norbo in order to break the oppressive
silence. With his usual calm Norbo replied:
“Some sage once said; ‘Life ends and beauty
is not enduring. One thing alone remains
eternal—the foolishness of Mankind.’ What
matters if your friend perish in the storm
when his immortality is assured through his
foolishness?”
Twenty-four hours later the wind died
down and, though the frost increased, travel-
ling was no longer dangerous. I decided to
ride over to the camp of the Chinese trappers
to see if Blair got there. Norbo led the
way. Through pathless steppes, sinking
deep into snow-drifts and constantly rubbing
our noses and cheek-bones with our gloved
hands, we moved slowly ahead. Towards
evening a yurta loomed before us.
Norbo pulled up his horse some distance
off the hut and called out.
A moment later Blair appeared and on
seeing me shouted : “Hullo, mate! It was
good of you to come after me, but I can’t
ask you to come in. Don’t come nearer!” lie
cried as I moved forward. Then he smiled
and said: “One of these Chows died last
night of the plague, so the rest of them
cleared out.”
“But where is the girl? And why are you
in that yurta?” I asked, fearing the worst.
He looked at me for a while, then said
quietly:
“The girl’s inside and she has the plague.”
“You can’t do anything for her. Why not
run ?”
Blair went on smiling, but now a little
wistfully. “No,” he said, “I began it and
must see it through.”
I reasoned with him, begged him to leave,
but he refused. He also forbade me to come
near him.
“Have you sufficient food?” I asked.
“Tons of it,” he answered, and added: “I
don’t think we’ll need much.”
Telling Blair I would be back soon, I rode
to my camp for medicines.
On the return journey through the night
we lost our way aiid wandered about
the steppes till dawn. Then we had to rest
our tired horses, so that our mission was not
accomplished till nearly three days later.
Norbo called when, we approached the hut,
but no answer came. I wound my woollen
scarf around my face, covering my mouth
and nose, and entered the yurta.
When my eyes became accustomed to the
gloom I saw the girl lying on the mats near
the cold iron stove. She was dead. On the
opposite side was Blair, alive but delirious.
I realised that he was beyond human aid
and strained my ears to catch his incoherent
words. In the evening of the same day he
died. In his pocket I found an envelope
addressed in pencil to a Mrs. Blair in a town
in England. This letter I later sent to its
destination.
A tin of kerosene which was in the hut
was used to saturate the bodies and the
yurta; then I set it on fire. The flames
quickly enveloped the structure, and red
tongues shot skywards, illuminating the
sleeping white steppes and issuing a silent
call to people living many miles around.
Towards morning a fall of snow covered
the ugly black scar which disfigured the pure
white robes of the steppes, and the frozen
lakes of snow glittered in the cold sun.
* * * t-
Two years later I was back in England
and succeeded in meeting the lady to whom
the letter had been addressed.
She was Blair’s mother. She was de-
lighted to learn that I had met her son.
From an old bookcase she produced a letter
written in lead pencil in which I read:
“Dear Mother, —Do not worry if you do
not hear from me for a long time. I am
going far into Mongolia and may be away
for years. As there are no post offices here
I may not be able to write.”
“I have not heard from him for two
years,” said Blair’s mother, “but I don’t
worry because he warned me not to. Jim
was always a good, thoughtful lad.”
I agreed with her. He had certainly
proved his thoughtfulness.”
Renunciation.
We travelled back to Commonplace,
And close-locked Passion’s gate.
We vowed no more to tread that way—
For how good folk will prate!
Our heads are bowed to Reason’s whim—
Her eyes are hard and cold—
And we shall learn to worship her,
Perhaps—when we are old.
We travelled back to Commonplace—
The safe way, so they tell—
And strive to reach to Heaven’s gates
Through little paths of Hell.
VICTORIA.
SONIA HARDIE.
A Chat with Signorina
Toti dal Monte.
Kelen gre[?]eegling.
A LITTLE woman, with laughing clear
brown eyes, dark brown wavy hair
which has a wonderful glint, neither
eyes nor hair being as dark as one would
imagine. A pretty mouth and rosy cheeks,
a happy laugh, a trill or two of song, a hand held
out to welcome me —that is the impression 1
formed on meeting Toti. One instinctively felt that
one should bow, bend the knee and kiss the hand ot
so great an artist. That is certainly what I should
have liked to have done, but what one feels like
doing and what one often does are two different
things, aren’t they? Perhaps it was shyness; any-
way, all I did was smile and take the little hand
held out to me. Signorina Toti puts you at your
ease at once, by softly arranging cushions behind
your back, and herself settling down as if you were
a real friend come to see her. I was astonished at
her good English. I never really thought about it
much, I suppose. That’s why it came as a delight-
ful surprise to find I could talk so well with her. 1
must tell you a story about the opera. The other
day I was in a shop waiting to be served, when 1
heard two girls talking of the operas. Said one:
“Really, I don’t know how you could be bothered
going upstairs to those most uncomfortable balcony-
seats to hear the opera.” The other girl’s reply
was: “Be bothered! Why I’d stand on my head to
hear Toti sing, to hear the operas.” Which is typical
of just what I feel about it; that is why I repeat
the conversation. How I hear it, where I am to
hear it is really immaterial ; the main thing, the
only thing, to me is the fact that I am hearing it.
So far I have been to every one, and enjoyed every
moment. Situated, as we are, way out in
Australia, it is indeed a privilege to think that we
can, for a few shillings, hear artists of inter-
national fame in the operas we have played and
hummed since we were kiddies.
Opening our chat, Signorina dal Monte said:
“I was bom in Venice and my family were all
musical; but no more like me!” Saying this, she
put back her head and laughed, showing pearly-white
teeth. “My father he teach me the music, I mean
the piano, and singing when I was a little girl.' I
study for the concert platform, piano-playing first of
all, till I decide to concentrate purely on my voice.
My first appearance was at La Scala, Milan, when
I was twenty. My favorite opera ? I really do
not know, I love so many; but I think you might
say ‘Lucia di Lammermoor.’ The role which takes
what you say the most out of me is, I think, ‘Son-
nambula.’ When I sing I am actually the person
for the time being. 1 live the role, so to speak.
That is why before I sing I must be quiet. I must
rest; and no telegrams, no letters, no nothing! I
have from my friends and people in Italy this
morning seven cablegrams. All pleased, so pleased
about my engagement. After I finish in Australia
Igo home to Italy ! Yes, Miss Beegling, my mother
has met Signor Lomanto, and likes him. He has
sung with me in Italy and has been to our home.
He is a fine man, a good man.”
“Tell me, Signorina, what is your ambition m
We?”
Toti thought hard, then smilingly said: I am
artist, yes, but all woman, too. I want to be
happily married and have a son. That is the
truth. After we go to Italy and have a rest, then
the next year I must go back to America. When
I first went to New York I felt, oh, so lonely, all
alone, but after I live there awhile I love it all.
The applause, the flowers, they are fine; but once
the curtain is down I want my own friends. I like
to be quiet, and cosy. Ah! a prima donna’s life,
you see, nearly all belong to the public. I like
your country. Yes, the flowers, the fruit and the
sunshine: it is lovely.”
“Where is your present home, Signorina ?
“My home ? It is in Milan; but I have also
what you call a country home out of Venice. My
favorite color? It is all the shades of lilac and
violet.”
“Have you your engagement ring?
“Yes, here it is. You are surprised it is not
diamonds. You see I buy all diamonds I want.
They mean nothing to me; but this —ah! this little
ring belonged to Signor Lomanto’s mother, and now
he give it to me. This ring means everything to
me; but diamonds —pooh! You see, I am in love
and, what you say, very sentimental! I no have
the wedding ring of platinum and diamonds, no.
I have a good old-fashioned gold wedding ring.”
“Signorina, do you have to study your diet very
carefully
Toti’s eyes had a twinkle as she said: “I fond of
good things to eat; but, yes, I have to think all the
time of my voice, you see. For breakfast a cup of
tea and some toast. If I have matinee I have no
lunch; but other days I have usually a grill with
an egg and a glass of port-wine. Sometimes in the
morning a slice of pineapple. No dinner, of course ;
I can have the good supper after I finish singing.
Practise? Yes, Miss Beegling, I practise three-
quarters of an hour every morning, sometimes more,
sometimes less; but always I practise some time.
Yes, I like to read and to sew when I get time, but
always there are so many things to do, so many
people to see, and then I must always rest before
performances, you see. I have so little of the time
for myself.”
Chatting to Signorina Toti dal Monte one is
immediately impressed by her absolute charm, her
happy laughing face, her gentleness of manner. An-
other thing, too, which I noticed were her adorable
little hands and feet; her shoe is a size two. She
evidently uses very little make-up of any descrip-
tion. Her eyes, as I have said before, were bright
and sparkling, her cheeks had Nature’s own color on
them, and her complexion was clear. I asked her
what she did to keep her complexion so beautifully
clear and she naively replied: “I use the Mercolized
Wax always—it is so good—for the skin it kfeeps so
nice. I have use it a long time now.”
What a busy life this little prima donna
leads! Whilst I was there there were calls
at the ’phone, flowers at the door, invi-
tations on the table and an impatient lover
waiting to carry her off to lunch. Such is
the life of an artist. It is indeed to her great
credit that through all the applause, all the usual
things which success brings with it, this charming
lady is still just a laughing girl, happy to make
others happy, eager to please, delightfully natural,
full of sympathy, light-hearted and open-hearted, be-
loved by all. I consider it an honor to have had
the pleasure of shaking hands with her, of chatting
to her. I have not mentioned her voice, because no
words of mine on paper could adequately describe
the beauty of it, or, for that matter, the supreme
pleasure I derive from listening to it. And, after
shq has left us and we hear of her triumphs in other
far-distant lands, we will have the glorious memory
of her divine voice still with us. Health and
happiness to you, Signorina I


Make this money-
saving remedy for
COUGHS
Miss Billy Jenks, the popular member
of “The Ingenues,” now creating a
sensation on the Tivoli Theatre cir-
cuit, has joined the ranks of the many
people who have placed on record
their appreciation of Heenzo as a
money-saving remedy for ailments of
the chest and throat.
COLDS and
INFLUENZA
COSTS 21-
SAVES £’s
To save much money by making
your own family cough remedy,
order from your chemist or store a
two-shilling bottle of concentrated
Heenzo. By adding the Heenzo to
sweetened water you will have a
supply equal in quantity and superior
in quality to eight ordinary-sized
bottles of the usual made-up cough
remedies that would cost up to £l.
Heenzo is equally good for children
or adults, and you will be delighted
with the speedy way Heenzo soothes
sore throats, eases the chest and
banishes even the worst attacks of
coughing.
§
should be used in every home.
*,«•
4/
mt
m
i
Losing
your
Health ?
THE only way to look really young
is to keep both body and nerves in
perfect condition. And you can do
that—with Sanatogen.
Your nerves need phosphorus, your
body needs albumin, to build up
lasting strength and good health.
Sanatogen gives exactly those elements
in such a perfect combination that
the weakest stomach can digest it.
RADIANT HEALTH
with
SANATOGEN
The True Tonic-Food
At all Chemists —from 3/9 per tin.
GENATOSAN LTD.. LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.
Cfhe Choices! Creations in —
TTlen’s Knitted. Sports Wear
M lO
So bright, refreshing and
exclusive are this season’s
designs in “Merino-Knit”
Sweaters and Cardigans.
No matter whether you
prefer simplicity of design
for business wear, or the
bolder treatments render-
ed strikingly attractive by
rich color tones for sports
wear, you will be delighted
with the attractiveness of
“ Merino - Knit ” Men’s
Outer-Wear.
MERINO
KNlf
Men’s Sweaters
and Cardigans
Decidedly Distinctive 1
Made Exclusively by the Merino Woollen Mills Pty. Ltd.,
Specialists in Men’s High Grade Sweaters and Cardigans,
Half Hose and Golf Hose.
ASK I]OUR MERCER FOR "MERINO-KNIT" AND QFT ITI
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offi es at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital £1 20’?2? John (Chairman).
Issued Capital * 49,1 ol 'W. G. Woodger, Esq.; S. J. Goulston, Esq.;
Paid-up Capital 30,234 R. G. H. Joseland, Esq.
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax.
Sound Security in Business. Residential and Industrial Properties. Pull particulars on application.
L. Q. FUSSELL, General Manager.
BACKACHE, NEURITIS,
RHEUMATISM
What a London Doctor Says.
Dr. Harrison, the London medico, says
that sufferers from uric acid troubles, back-
ache, rheumatism, joint pains and urinary
disorders would do well to leave expensive
“patent” remedies alone. The doctor
recommends, instead, a combination of
about eight of the most valuable agents
known for the treatment of uric acid,
kidney, bladder and urinary complaints.
This combination is known to every
chemist as Harrison’s Pills; it is widely
recommended as a safe, prompt and effec-
tive remedy. The cost is surprisingly small,
and those who try Harrison’s Pills are
always astonished how quickly relief
comes; how soon backaches, joint pains,
headaches, dizziness, night worries, etc., be-
come things of the past. For “middle-
age” symptoms generally chemists say there
is nothing to equal Harrison’s Pills —an
honest, inexpensive combination of medi-
cinal agents of generally accepted value.
THE
“QUEENSLANDER”
QUEENSLAND’S GREATEST
PICTURE WEEKLY.
Everyone interested in the Queen
State of the Commonwealth should
make a habit of seeing the “Queens-
lander” regularly.
Pictures and news items from every
corner of the State, as well as fea-
tures for every member of the family
are included.
Free specimen copy and subscription
form on application to
The Brisbane News-
paper Co., Ltd.,
Publishers of the
“BRISBANE COURIER,”
“SPORTS REFEREE,”
“Courier” Building, Queen Street,
Brisbane,
Or
SYDNEY REPRESENTATIVE:
ROBT. D. FISHER,
Colonial Mutual Chambers,
74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone 85007.
QUEENSLAND’S BIG DAILY PAPER
THE BRISBANE COURIER
Easily the best and biggest Daily Paper
published in Queensland and carries more
ADVERTISING
than any other Queensland paper year in
and year out - - “Courier” advertising
INCREASES SALES
Rate Cards and specimen
copies from
Robt. D. Fisher,
Sydney Representative,
74 Pitt Street.
’Phone 85007.
Published by the
Brisbane Newspaper Co.,
“Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also publishers of the
“Queenslander” and
“Sports Referee.”


Children
enjoy
e
it makes them
ulellandstrona
!n 4 sizes
efeQ Chemists & Stores
2OO
MARTEL'S
BRANDY
A Household Word "
in Sichness&in Health
«***
4 -* •-"
i.c®
I<A’
„ ft tC'
THE PHANTOM TIDE.
BY- R.EXON BUTCHART.
THE Rear-Admiral frowned at the
twitching figure in the straight-backed
chair, and turned to the Deputy-Pay-
master.
“It’s preposterous!” he snapped. “The
Navy Office has something better to do than
waste coal investigating the cock-and-bull
stories of every drivelling idiot that cares
to plague us!”
The Paymaster looked dubious. “I don’t
know that this chap”—he nodded at the
huddling wretch who ’feat in the straight-
backed chair mouthing crazy gibberish inter-
minably—“l don’t know that this chap’s
inventing it all, sir. He brought the log
with him, and the M.O.’s say that he is not
so much insane as suffering from shock.”
The Rear-Admiral grunted, and once more
took up the scale mag of the Queensland lit-
toral. It gave evidence of having been much
used in the last few days. Pie jabbed an
irritable finger on the X that marked the
last reading recorded in the log which the
“lunatic” had been carrying under his arm
when a Cairns policeman had found him
wandering dazedly along the beach a couple
of miles out of the town.
“Where does that work out to?” he asked.
“One hundred and fifteen miles four fur-
longs and one chain, land measure, in the
direct line from Cape York,” the Paymaster
said in the tone of one who has answered
the same question many times. “And two-
thirds of a sea mile off shore.”
“And there’s no mention of any tide or
current in the last report of . the Dolphin?”
“No, sir. And it’s only a year since they
were up there, what’s more.”
The Rear-Admiral ran his fingers through
his wiry grey hair. “Who the Devil,” he
snarled exasperatedly, “has ever heard of a
tide that starts from nowhere in the middle
of a patch of kelp, takes a ketch under con-
trol half a mile offshore, conducts it politely
up a little creek and deposits it into a mael-
strom in a cross between a lagoon and a
lake?”
The answer came from an unexpected
quarter. There showed for a moment a
light of comprehension in the eyes of the
“lunatic.”
“The lake!” he moaned. “The lake!
Slimy, sticky kelp! O God, the mael-
strom! Dead men —dead men shrieking”
His voice cracked into a falsetto of terror,
and he seemed 'to shrink still further into
his ill-fitting clothes.
The Rear-Admiral nodded significantly.
“Mad,” he said grimly. “Quite mad ! Apd
so will Ibe soon! Cabinet Ministers!” he
exploded. “ ‘Must get this mystery ex-
plained.’ ‘Bad for my department.’ ” The
Rear-Admiral glared at the Paymaster.
“How the devil would you like it, sir, I
may ask, if you had some damned political
landlubber wasting half your time?” He
broke off as a discreet cough came from the
fourth occupant of the room. “What the
devil do you want?” he added as he half-
turned on his chair.
Lieutenant Gaylard rose stiffly to atten-
tion. He indicated the “lunatic.” “He was
quite rational for a few minutes this morn-
ing, sir. I was with the M.O.’s. He re-
membered the whole trip—we verified it in
the log—up to the time they sighted the
patch of kelp. He was on watch at the
time, and, instead of sheering off., he ran
her into it.”
“Just what the damn fool would do,”
the Rear-Admiral interrupted.
“Into the kelp,” continued the Lieutenant
after a respectful pause. “After going about
two hundred fathoms they stopped dead.
But only for a minute. Then their bow
suddenly slewed round, and they started for
the shore at about six knots, although the
wind had dropped. Nor could they touch
bottom with the anchor, which seemed to
drag out behind them. The current carried
them straight through the creek mouth, and
about two hundred yards inland they came
out into a little lake —it is mentioned in the
Dolphin’s last report, sir—whose surface
as they entered it was quite smooth and cov-
ered with kelp.” The Lieutenant broke off
to cast a compassionate glance at the “luna-
tic” before continuing. “But immediately
afterwards —in his own words —it started to
boil and swirl, and the kelp was thrown
about all over the place, half-submerging the
ketch. From then on lie seems to have no
clear memory beyond that he grabbed the
log and jumped clear when the ketch was
tossed almost on shore at one stage —the
Dolphin reports deep water right to the lake
edge—and almost immediately afterwards
the ketch disappeared entirely. After that,
nothing until lie was discovered by the
policeman on the beach a week later.”
Lieutenant Gaylard sat down, and for a
space silence reigned.
At length the Rear-Admiral' sighed wear-
ily. “Where is the Dolphin, Masterton?”
The Paymaster shrugged. “Went into
dry dock yesterday, sir.”
“That leaves us the Fremantle, doesn’t
it? She’s up that way now, isn’t she?”
The Paymaster shook his head. “She’s
at Darwin, sir.”
The Rear-Admiral groaned. “How many
hundreds would it cost to bring her down
there?” he asked. “Remember that we’re
taxpayers, too.”
The Paymaster worked out his little sum.
“Too much,” growled the Rear-Admiral.
“Leave it till to-morrow.”
But the matter was settled within the
next hour, for no sooner had the Deputy-
Paymaster taken his departure in company
with the “lunatic” than Lieutenant Gaylard,
sitting (in strange contrast to his alert
“attention” a few minutes previously) on
the edge of the Rear-Admiral’s desk, talked
solidly for twenty-five minutes.
He eyed the Rear-Admiral anxiously. “Re-
member, sir,” he added, “this is the third
sailing boat that has disappeared in those
parts in two years. And not a trace of the
“‘My God, Harry!’ he cried, and his voice sounded harsh and high-pitched, ‘there’s one
of them coming out!’”
other two. It was only by a miracle that
we heard anything of this one.”
“But the accepted theory is that the crew
were all captured by blacks,” the Rear-
Admiral objected.
Harry shook his head vigorously. “AH
wrong, sir.”
The Rear-Admiral eyed his subordinate
speculatively. “How much did you say it
would cost?” he said at length.
“Not more than a hundred, all told, sir.
I’ll only want one quarter-master from the
Navy. I’d sooner have old Peeps as a third
man than half a dozen A.B.’s.”
“It won’t help your career if you’re
wrong,” the Rear-Admiral pointed out.
“But if I’m right?” Harry countered.
“And I jolly well know I am.”
“If you’re right, of course,” the Rear-
Admiral admitted,“ it will mean sure pro-
motion.”
“And Judith?”- Harry pleaded.
The Rear-Admiral sighed, and shook his
head sadly. Judith was his only daughter,
and widowers are notoriously reluctant to
part with such.
“Oh, well,” he said, eyeing the eager-
faced Harry with a smile, in which resig-
nation .and affection were equally repre-
sented, “1 suppose 1 wouldn’t have any
excuse then to be selfish.”
i|c i\i SjC
Lieutenant Harry Gaylard suddenly raised
his arms aloft.
“Kelp-o!” he announced, and turned to
the man who stood at the tiny wheel. “Swing
her out, Peeps—we must be sure to get well
clear of it. We’ll run her up about three
miles or so beyond it and make camp there.
Then there will be nothing to do but wait
for a good wind and send her into it.”
Peeps—in private life a doctor with a
large and fashionable practice in Brisbane
—did as he was directed.
“Thank the Lord for that,” he observed
piously. “I’ve been scared this thing would
go to bits if we hit a jelly-fish. No wonder
the old feller was willing to take a tenner
for her.”
Harry chuckled as he ran his eye over the
ungainly lines of the Jane Hoskins, which,
no doubt, had once been a trim little vessel.
“I think we might have got her for no-
thing if we’d haggled long enough,” he
agreed. “But she’ll serve her purpose. Just
imagine it, Peeps, being resurrected to end
your honorable career in your country’s
service. I can almost envy dear old Jane.”
As they ran parallel with the margin of
the expanse of kelp the only sound audible
was the chugging of the exhaust of the tiny
auxiliary engine which Harry had had fitted
to the Jane so as to save time if the wind
should fail them during the run up the coast.
An uncanny stillness seemed to pervade
the atmosphere. What little wind there
had been earlier in the day had died down,
and the land and water lay motionless, shim-
mering under the rays of the tropic sun.
Even Harry’s buoyant spirits left him as
he gazed at the expanse of brown sliminess
that lay between them and the arid shore.
But an hour later he was once more him-
self as they set about making their camp.
It was not until that evening as they lay
resting in front of their fire that the doctor
voiced his queries.
“What I can’t see,” he said, nursing his
blistered hands, “is why the devil you want
to anchor this far up and make us cart all
that stuff down there on foot Why couldn’t
we have stood off the edge of the kelp and
landed there? That chap was certain, wasn’t
he, that it was not until they were about
two hundred yards into the kelp that the
current got them?”
Harry nodded. “That’s true,” he admitted.
“But because lie felt it only at that point,
it doesn’t necessarily follow that the Phan-
tom Tide, as the chap called it, must always
start at that identical spot.”
“Well, all I hope,” the doctor said, with
a yawn, “is that, if the old Jane goes to
her destruction, the Admiralty won’t pigeon-
hole our wireless for a year before they
send out to pick us up. I would not care
to stroll down to Cairns like your friend
did.”
It was three days later that the dawn
brought with it a gentle breeze from the
north. Instantly the camp was in a bustle,
Harry hardly giving the others time to
finish their breakfast. The result was that
by eleven o’clock the various packages had
been carried the half-mile from the dump to
the side of the lake.
The doctor stood on the sand dune which
flanked the kelp-covered stream, beneath
which dune Harry had buried a blasting
charge which, in his own words, was
“nearly strong enough to blow the Rock ol
Gibraltar to Naples.”
“Ugh,” he said, “it gives me the creeps.
Just look at that filthy kelp. Not a speck
of water showing anywhere. It’s hard to
believe it could ever be anything but what
it looks now, and that is—dead!” The
doctor gave a little shudder and pointed to
the line of kelp that marked the narrow
channel between lake and sea. “That can’t
be more than twenty yards across at most,’
ho went on. “It must be a mighty strong
current that can pull a ketch through that!
He turned to Harry. “I suppose you ve got
some perfectly good theory,” he said. “But
I’m darned if I can see how it works. Ihe
only possible explanation seems to me that
the level of the lake must sink every now
and then —that would make a bit of a
current outside, and would account for the
fact that they didn’t notice any current until
they were well into the kelp. I suppose it
would account also for the kelp coller Jpg
outside like that. But then you have to
imagine some sort of a tunnel down under
the lake where the level rises and fallsi too.
It’s got me bluffed !”
“I think I’m ; on the right track,” Harry
replied, as he gave the signal to the quarter-
master, to start, the Jane on her final voyage.
“But I’m keeping it as a surprise for you.
I stand to lose a devil of a lot if I’m not,”
he added, a hint of anxiety in his voice. Now
that the moment was at hand, he wondered
if his theory would really stand the test-
lie watched the sails of the Jane being
set, and saw a tiny black shape detaching
itself from the main mass as the quarter-
master, having squared the sails and lashed
the wheel, pulled back to land in the dinghy.
The breeze had freshened considerably since
morning and the Jane was soon coming on
at a good pace.
“We’ve got half an hour to wait yet.
Harry said. “We might as well fill it in
by laying these wires. I won’t put them on
to the terminals yet, just in case of
accident.” ,
He had decided to fire the blasting charge
from the shelter afforded by another sand
dune three hundred yards or so, along the
beach. A wise precaution, in, view, of the
Mills bombs and depth charges which lay
further round the edge of the lake. It was
not likely that they would go off when the
blast exploded, but, as the doctor, a rather
prudent soul at times, remarked, “Better
safe than sorry.”
This job completed, he returned to the
side of the kelp-covered channel to await
the arrival of the Jane. The boat was now
drawing close to the edge of the kelp and
holding to her course as truly as if steered
by human hands instead of a lashed wheel.
The petty officer had carried out his task
well.
With a sigh of relief Harry saw the bow
strike the edge of the weed. For a hundred
yards or so the Jane continued on her way
with scarcely diminished speed. Then she
obviously began to slacken until, before
another hundred yards had been covered, she
lay motionless.
“Looks like a fly in a treacle dish,” the
doctor commented, breaking the silence. ,
Harry gripped his arm. “She’s moving
again!”' he said in a hoarse whisper. “She’s
moving inshore —just as that chap said!”
He ran to the top of the sand dune from
where the surface of the lake could be seen.
As yet, despite the evident fact that the
Phantom Tide was running, there was no
sign of agitation on the placid surface of
the brown, glistening kelp. Nor was the
kelp which covered the channel moving. It
lav as motionless as ever.
The doctor stood beside him, breathing
rapidly. “It’s got me bluffed!” he repeated,
and there was a tremor in his usually im-
passive voice. “It’s uncanny! Look at the
way she’s coming through the kelp! And
yet the wind couldn’t budge her an inch!”
Harry was absorbedly watching the Jane
progress. With the unerring direction of
the homing-pigeon the bow pointed to the
mouth of the channel. A moment later she
had entered the narrow passage.
A shiver ran down the doctor’s spine as
(Continued on patfe 57.)


A SMASHING BLOW
THAT KILLS
Quickly and Cleanly
is delivered by the new
“SUPER-SPEED” ammunition
shot from its companion rifle,
the
(•25-20) “MODEL 53” (.32-20)
•WINCHESTER
TRADE MARK
DEVELOPING over 2000 feet
per second muzzle velocity,
these cartridges possess cor-
respondingly high energy, and
the flat trajectory so vital to
modern hunting needs.
THEY are operated through
the simplest, fastest and safest
under-lever action ever de-
vised, and fired through a
22-inch Nickel-Steel barrel
specially designed and rifled
for them.
WEIGHING only about silb.,
and balanced for speedy
handling, MODEL 53 feels
like a high-grade “trapgun”
and is a typical WINCHESTER
Thoroughbred.
r
Solid frame Model,
£7/12/6
Take-down Model,
£B/12/6
Post Free.
Write for descriptive
leaflet “8.53.”
COWLES 8 DUNN
{The Oldest-Established, Gun-
makers in Australia'),
453 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
“THE AGE”
Established 185^<
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a Victorian Newspaper of
National importance, and during the 74 years
of its existence has grown side by side with
t'he community, consistently advocating the
policy which has so materially helped in the
development of this young nation,
PROTECTION FOR AUSTRALIAN
INDUSTRIES.
If. you desire to keep abreast of the times read
“THE AGE.”
It is timely, practical, wholesome and helpful,
and provides a wealth of information on all
subjects having a genuine news value.
Price lid. per copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free within
the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes Over 1,000,000 Advertise-
ments Annually.
Advertising rates obtainable at the principal
Advertising Service Agencies throughout the
Commonwealth, or from
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
X
'Si
\e»
<fV e
asf
\> c
\\c»
W c r
i
SV°.
$> u ‘ u W
DW
WALNUT
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
<CjW£Y
HAIIJ
WOULD
' SPOIL
IT#
Specialising t/iH.M.V Portables,
til cash or terms arranged
The TALKE Rl ES
477 Q.V. Buildings t Opposite Loivtsi
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
SYDNEY EUCHARISTIC CONGRESS
'T’HE Accommodation during this period will be
unprocurable. Intending visitors should at once
make provision for this. We have arrangements with
many hotels and boarding-houses m and around
Sydney at tariffs to suit all pockets. These are filling
fast. For further information write to
ADVANCE ACCOMMODATIONS,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALASIAN ACCOMMODATION SPECIALISTS.
Queensland’s Great Weekly
Newspaper and Magazine is
The Sunday Mail
R E * D by every member of the family, this great Newspaper-
Magazine goes into the homes of Brisbane people at a time when
they have leisure to read it from cover to cover.
It is safe to say The Sunday Mail is read by a majority of the
readers of the several dailies published during the week in the
Brisbane Metropolitan area.
As an advertising medium calculated to reach the many thousands
of prospective purchasers in this fruitful and ever widening field
THE SUNDAY MAIL
stands easily supreme. For Advertising Rates and further particu-
lars please apply to —
The Daily Mail, Queen Street, Brisbane,
or ROBERT JACKSON, N.S.W. Branch Manager.
Brisbane Daily Mail, Ltd.,
Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone 81522.
JUST WHAT YOU WANT
WHEN IT COMES TO THE POINT
A high-grade Pencil with a
very fine point, and a
“Blackbird” Pen with
a durable point.
Hmdl
99
“ Fyne-Poynt" is a
Pencil that is always
ready for use; its thin lead
never requires sharpening, and
it carries refills to last a twelve-
month. One quarter turn
either propels the lead for
writing or withdraws it for
protection. The lead is used
up to the last fraction.
The Pencil of
many fine points
Prices from 7/6
The “ Blackbird ” Self-filler is a
Pen of wonderful value; its iridium
tipped I4ct. gold nib is made for hard
work. Choose a point to suit your
handwriting, and the “ Blackbird ” will
serve you well for many years to come.
Try one at your nearest dealer’s.
Prices from 9/-
Made by the “SWAN” Pen People
“blackbird
SEUFFILUER
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Htftd Office : Swan House, 133 & 135, Oxford St., London, W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing A cents and Repair Service Depot t
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
“SWAN” INK FOR ALL FENS.
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
For Sale.
Municipality of Mudgee.
MACHINERY FOR SALE.
'T’HE following Electricty Generating Plant,
A in good running order, is offered for
sale by tender, having been supplanted by
a new and larger A.C. plant: —
Item (a) Thompson .Compound High-pres-
sure Steam Engine, 150 h.p., 4 m
r.p.m. direct coupled to Clayton
and Joel D.C. Generator, 300 amps,
240 volts.
Item (b) Beiliss and Morcom Compound
High-pressure Steam Engine, 150
h.p., 250 r.p.m., direct coupled to
Rees Roturbo D.C. Generator, 312
amps, 240 volts.
Item (c) Babcock and Wilcox W.T. Boiler.
to drive both engines, complet >
with superheater and all fittings.
Certificate June, 1927 —1501 b.
Sf-pnm ProciQiiro
Item (d) Surface Condenser for use with
above.
Item (e) Crossley Horizontal Single-cylinder
Gas Engine, 25 h.p., 1400 r.p.m.
Item (f) Rees Roturbo D.C. Generator, 40
amp., belt-driven by above.
Item (g) Nine-panel Marble Switchboard,
fitted with meters, fuses, switches,
etc.
Tenders are invited for the above in one
line, or for any item or items.
Highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
Machinery may be inspected at old Power
Station, Mudgee, during office hours.
Note. —The above plant was supplying
current on 30th April, 1928, on a 25 p.c.
overload.
Tenders to be in hands of undersigned not
later than 4 p.m., Ist October, 1928.
HERBERT G. DEE,
Town Clerk.
Town Hall, Mudgee,
109- August, 1928.
Missing Friends.
FAILLON.—WouId ANASTATIA (ANNE)
DILLON, daughter of Thomas Dillon
and Catherine Dillon (formerly Hynes),
born at West Maitland, N.S.W., Bth Febru-
ary, 1852, last heard of living at North
Sydney with a Mrs. Elizabeth Williams,
wife of J. L. Williams, and believed to
have been in Melbourne in 1880, or any-
one having information regarding her where-
abouts or date of death, please communicate
with PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY
(LIMITED), 33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
JAMES RAWLINS, £5 REWARD. The above
reward will be paid for information as to the
whereabouts or authentic proof of the death of Janies
Rawlins, who landed in Australia from the R.M.S.
Oreades in June or July, 1923. In September, 1923,
was working as a navvy at Bush Camp Whittaker’s
Mills, Dandalup, Western Australia. Served with the
Imperial Forces during the war. Age about 40 years,
stoutly built, has the second and third fingers of the
left hand missing from the first joints. Information
to Robinson, Cox & Wheatley, Solicitors, Perth, W.A.
Public Notice.
Treatment of Ores Containing Oxidized
Copper Compounds.
jSJOTfCE is hereby given that the owner of Aus-
tralian Patent No. 3984/21, dated 9th June,
1921, is desirous of entering into arrangements to
supply all requirements of the public for working
the above invention by means of license or otherwise.
Further particulars will be supplied on application
to COLLISON & CO., Patent Attorneys, 483 Collins
Street, • Melbourne.
e
r
% ✓
ty
H
Monarch
Cigars-
flSScßAiG sAitken
Wholesale
Distributor.?
d n c N AU
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
in
THE REGISTER,
which is read by all classes,
Proprietors:
W. K. THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
ERIC N. BIRKS, N.S.W. Representative.
Telephone X. 0187.
G. N. BEDNALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.


fflsfc IS
m
! }
.
**»>
m ttin m\ m\ mu ;muiiii7nryitt\mw4iiLV>uu.Vy-«
Be Pretty!
Be Dainty!
Be
Attractive!
Be a
REXONA GIRL!
Use Only
REXONA SOAP
For Health and Beauty.
Miss DOROTHY
DEWAR, a beauti-
ful Rexona Girl,
writes ; “1 am, a
constant user of
Rexona Soap and I
find it ideal for
shampooing the
hair and keeping
the complexion in
the pink of condi-
tion, and recom-
mend it always to
my friends
jam
wH|
ft
i:
*
oh a *
My it
rosted the day they are made
zJhe Gnvjus
ThecL Sox of*
Chocolates
HILL) EES
An _ s , CHOCOLATES
- <« tit). 162-166 Pitt Street
5/6. 6/ 10/. 12/6.
20/ ancL 30/
g]
/(PATOPQ
the lane borne on the Phantom Tide, glided
Sent?? past. The faint klip-klop of the
"listening streamers of kelp, as they came
together a behind the vessel’s stern, seemed
to intensify the silence, and the mys-
ofihehoat’s progress
on ’ ’ cned § Harry as the Jane
.KM L t "their vantage point. “The
ed ,P aS
C 'Thev arrived' simultaneously at the shel-
tprim/sand dune and Harry flung himself
Sn S the key A moment later they rose,
with aching eardrums, to watch the debris
settle itself Where previously there had
been a narrow creek, kelp-covered, there
was now a flat expanse of sand. The ex-
nlosion had done its work well; commum-
cation between lake and sea was now cut
off i )V the erstwhile sand dune which had
S ” taost bodlly in ‘° tbe narr ° W
“That’s "the best of depth charges and
Mills bombs,” Harry panted hs they raced
back towards the lake. “They don’t go
off till von tell them to.”
\s they reached the place where they
had piled the hand explosives Harry motioned
t 0 the doctor to take two of the depth
charges ■ seizing three bombs himself he led
the wav to the lake’s edge.
For a moment they both paused aghast at
the spectacle. The previously placid surface
of tiie lake was now boiling and spuming;
kelp was tossing hither and thither, almost
obliterating the Jane, which was already
more than half submerged.
Harry drew a deep breath.
“Chuck in the depth charges,” he jerked,
“and watch all Hell break loose!”
Following the dull roar, doubly muffled
bv the water and the kelp, the frothing lake
seemed literally to writhe in agony. Long
arms of shining, snaking brown, thicker
that a man’s thigh, waved spasmodically,
and sank again. The doctor gasped as the
significance of what he saw broke in upon
his mystification. No wonder the mate had
lost his sanity! No wonder that the very
mention of the lake was enough to send him
into paroxysmal terror!
Suddenly the doctor seized his companion’s
arm
“My God Harry,” he cried, and his voice
sounded harsh and high pitched.” there’s
one of them coming out!”
For a moment .they stood staring m
mingled loathing and fear as they saw an
enormous, octopus slowly draw itself from
the clinging kelp on to tie sand. The
parrot beak was open as though m pam,
and as the fearsome monster with a final
heave gained the land, they saw that three
of its tentacles were missing.
The wicked unwinking eyes of the giant
devilfish held them. But only for an instant
It was for just such an emergency as
this that Harry had provided himself with
the Mills bombs, and, throwing off the
strange hypnotic influence, he seized the
doctor by the arm and dragged him back,
“Lie down, Peeps!” he whispered. Now
for the bombs!
A few seconds later lie shuddered as
particle of cold flesh, still quivering, fell
be Half’'an’Uour ,ater the two friends, stood
surveying the lake. On the level surface of
the kelp the Jane rested at a crazy angle,
and her bomb-shattered deck bore evidence
of the slaughter. Half a dozen unpleasant
looking heaps of dank flesh were scattered
over her, and to one mast there still clung a
long rope of brown a tentacle whose
suckers, even though blown from ilieir
parent body, retained their limpet-like pro-
perries. , „ .
“Eight of them with bombs, the do(d:ar
said. “And Lord knows how many with the
depth charges. This lake must, have been
their breeding-ground—the devils! .He
laid his hand on Harry s arm and pointed
across the beach to where the seaward
stretch of kelp lay silent and mysterious,
“But how many are there still out there.
he added with an involuntary shiver as lie
pictured the hidden mysteries of the kelp,
“God knows, Harry answered cheerfully,
“but they won t be there for long. . The
Phantom Tide will never flow again, I
promise you. Well blow that little hell to
pieces in a day or so. The old chap promised
me a supply of mines charges 11
my theory proved correct,
“By the old chap, the doctor suggested
humorously, “I suppose you mean the
Admiral?”
“Exactly,”, replied Lieutenant Harry Gay-
land, executing a sudden and impromptu
war dance. “By the ‘old chap’ I mean
my father-in-law-to-be, no less!
The Hand.
A GRAPHIC STORY OF A LONG DELIRIUM AND A QUICK RECOVERY, BY
FRANCIS OSBORN.
THE glittering red of this peak’s walls
was intensified by the livid heaviness of
the air. Harley knew that he must
for ever climb up and up, though his feet were
leaden and his heart dry and hammering.
An oppression of horror had descended on
him years ago, and by now was a common-
place of his useless hours. Hours spent in
striving upwards on this shining red wall,
up and up—to what? Looking down, he
could see that he could never retrace his
steps; the wall was perpendicular, and
seemed even to fall away as each weary foot-
step passed. upwards. He could never go
down again; only higher and higher into the
strained grey air that set his heart hammer-
ing like hollow thunder. It was useless, of
course, all useless and out of tune; but he,
old and feeble and yet with vibrating, terror-
stricken nerves, must keep on doing it until
he reached the peak’s summit. And what
then? Under this vast shadow that Avas
making paler and more , ominous the horrify-
ing light, what then?
Drearily one striving foot found its knife-
edge hold and was followed by another within
an ace of stumbling to death. He was petri-
iied, and yet he was alive and in laborious
pain; Avhat he was doing was the most
important thing in the world, and yet it
meant nothing and could lead to nothing.
The chill shadow enveloped it all; death,
old shoddy death, haunted the shadow that
moved upward with him —until he reached
the summit of the red mountain and stood
upright, trembling and bewildered, on the
narrow plateau.
The air was denser and heavier here. Or
was it only that the shadow was deeper?
Far down below, miles and miles, an abyss
of hungry rocks stretched into eternity.
That was nothing. But this shadow, so still
and inevitable, so steady.... He looked up.
A great hand, vast as the sky and unbe-
lievably Avhite, hung over his head. Against
the livid light its whiteness almost blinded
him. He saw that its titanic fingers were
curved to grasp him The thought, the
dread certainty, reeled into his consciousness
on the wings of terror, a terror that drove
all menace and laborious pain away. This,
then, was the end, the meaning of that dread ■
ful journey—to be seized and crushed by this
appalling hand, to feel his puny speck of
blood staining for one millionth of a second
its vast eternal whiteness.... He stared up
at it, his soul shuddering away from the still,
quiet certainty. Instantly, hysteria seized
and shook him. He dragged his eyes away
from the awful white hand, and, his lone cry
a shadowy whisper, plunged headlong down
to the hungry rocks, miles and miles....
* * * *
Was that a voice?... .“think he’s right
now a little to the left”.... but oblivion
came shouldering back.
Light—a pale, unhappy sort of light, thin
and useless. Yes, that seemed to be the
corner of a table.... But the merciful black
nothingness was best.
Light again—a shade stronger this time,
but so unhappy and dreary; like an effort,
when all effort was useless. Yes. The
corner of the table again, and some shadowy
drooping things like tired stars —flowers,
probably. Life —what a thing to face....
Years afterwards, the nurse took shape by
the Avindow, a huge nurse, very quiet and
young, eternally knitting or tatting or some-
thing. In weary tranquillity Harley watched
her; she was so still and restful. But
not so restful as the black dreamlessness;
that was always the best. You sank into its
arms for ever....
Yet now she had an air of irritating
bustle. You felt that at any moment she
might begin to do something, upsetting the
world. And she did; she stood up and
pulled down the blind, making the light
sleepy and foolish. A ridiculous woman.
Later, when the light was bright and
strong again and the hanging flowers had
changed, she stood up once more and loomed
tremendously towards you, standing beside
you smiling. Suddenly that white hand was
vast above your face, striking a deep and
ringing terror into your heart and sending
the room and the table and window all
shuddering away into a stricken eternity....
At once you were on that red glittering
peak beneath that livid sky, all the panic in
Hell tearing at your soul, the huge white
hand stretching across the sky for your poor
little speck of blood. Oh, for the black,
the deep dreamless safety....
Old Pawling, too, fat and bland —not much
of a doctor, old Pawling. Too much Mac-
quarie-street smile and chit-chat. And rot-
tenly out of condition.
And Miriam, beautiful as ever, beautifully
the tender commiserating fiancde, standing
smiling at you for exactly the allotted num-
ber of seconds.
Pawling again, chatting away and grinning
at the nurse. And suddenly, while Pawling
was chatting, that hand again, white and
unspeakable, the fingers curved to grasp,
looming at your face.... Harley felt his
spirit shrivel in panic, in a dire, endless panic
from which there was no escape. Caught in
this prison of terror, he stared at the white
fingertips, vast as the world, and prayed for
swift death. But the merciful nothingness
came at last, hiding his sobbing spirit in its
bosom.
Harley came back gingerly into the world,
and went down to Yellowfields to convalesce
and ratify his return. A pleasant enough
place, Yellowfields, with the little pocket
valleys of. Picton to look at and Miriam
to minister in beauty to the poor invalid.
Old Joe Palliser was a good host, treating
his junior partner and son-in-law-to-be
as already one of the family. It was good
to savor the gradual return of health, the
gradual strengthening. Congestion can be
very nasty, as Pawling had said —touch and
go if you hadn’t a man like Pawling to
watch out, he had implied.
The world seemed much the same place.
A little less kick in it, perhaps, as yet, but
that would come back in time. Meantime
there was Palliser’s great comfortable place
for drowsy loitering; Palliser’s cars and
famous chef, all the resources of Palliser’s
wealth and habit of doing himself well. And
Miriam, of course.
She ought to have been in Paris this spring
and was booked for a fortnight in Vienna.
But here she was at Yellowfields, to be with
and look after poor Don Harley. It was all
very pleasant and attractive, even affecting,
in a way—a social light like Miriam sticking
herself down in a place outside Picton, New
South Wales, to be near her young man
while he convalesced.
But Harley had a secret. He couldn’t
stand people’s hands. And the whiter they
were the more terrifying they were. Miriam’s
hands, which had been painted by Arliss
and were famous, he could stand least of
all hands in the world. Their white and
radiant beauty paralysed him with terror
When you come to think of it, if a hand
held out in greeting swells suddenly to a
vast white menace blotting out the world
you can’t be expected to call yourself happy’
Or even sane. He had tried to tackle it'
tried hard. He had gone down to Sydney in
Palliser s car, gone to the club and shaken
hands with every fool in the place. And he
had hardly been able to find his way round
the Bligli-street corner when it was over.
You could see life as it mapped itself
out tor you—the junior partner engaged to
(.Continued on next page .)


The Great
Prize Serial
Starts
Next Week
JOHN JAMEfON
* * *
WHISKEY
the J.J. whiskey we sell to-day is
made in Dublin by the old and ex-
pensive Pot Still method —the same
method that we used in 1780. For by
no other process is it possible to
produce the same quite unusual soft-
ness and the generous full John
Jameson flavour.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
* * * *
B. Seppelt & Sons, Limited, Melbourne, Victoria
Perkins & Co., Ltd. Brisbane, Q.
Milne & Co Perth, W.A.
(srati Austral No. 5 Art Union
(By Permission of the Attorney-General, IV.S.IV.
FOR THE
LIMBI:
ICRS
PROVIDENT
FUND
3
FIRST PRIZES
1 HUDSON COACH .£499
2 .» i, .£499
3 „ „ A 499
and 131 other Valuable Articles from £275 to £5
including Player Piano and Line a Chest
BUY ONLY THE PURPLE TICKET-ACCEPT NO OTHER
Trusted by the people aud with a reputation gained by the conduct of
our last four Art Unions, which paid full prize money and were drawn
to time, the Limbless Soldiers will again keep faith.
The proceeds are in aid of the Provident Fund of the Limbless
Soldiers’ Association, and are invested at interest by Trustees to
provide for the old age of limbless returned men.
TICKETS 1/- B ; p .f
6 TICKETS 6/- POST FREE
0. BEYERS, Hon. Secretary, 19 Bligh Street, Sydney
the senior partner’s daughter, nothing to
worry about, a decent comfortable place
near Sydney and another in the country;
tennis, golf, fishing, sometimes polo; trips
to Europe, fox hunting, salmon fishing—all.
the usual things. But if you ax-e liable to
faint with panic because a white hand sud-
denly fills the room, the life mapped out
for you has lost its x-liythm.
He tried leaving Yellowfields and going
back to the office against Pawling’s advice.
But that was disastrous. On the third morn-
ing a Nemesis, a mocking spectre, had sat
unseen on his desk in silent laughter. All
the day shadows had lurked waiting for a
chance to spring out at him. There had been
no order, no tune in the dreadful endless
hours. He had been afraid of the passers-
by, of the buildings, of the shadowy whisper-
ing noises and of the great roar of sound
ceaselessly in his ears. Creeping past the
doorways and the horrifying faces in the
street, he seemed to be touching hands with
worse than death, moment by moment. Yet
his mind had told him endlessly that there
was nothing....
Pawling had told him that he was a fool
and that nervous prostration was a worse
arid a longer job than congestion. Palliser
had been short with him, too —had ordered
him to keep out of the office for a year, two
years if need be, and to get back to Yellow-
fields quick and lively. As he had said good-
bye, Palliser’s hand, tremendous, immense
and savage with menace, had blotted out
the light of the big window, making the
room all a-tremble in a haunted twilight
of fear.
“It’s no good, Miriam. It’s not a fair
deal for you, and you must release me.”
The tinkle of her sudden laugh angered
his bruised and wounded spirit. “Suppose
I won’t release you, Don dear?”
“You must,” he told her wearily. What
a striving business it was, trying to make
people see things and keep your beastly
secrets at well! “After all, we’ve only
been sort of mapped out for each other,
you know—the industrious young partner,
the good, old-established house, and the
beautiful daughter. It doesn’t go too far
beneath our skins. In a year you’ll have
forgotten and be glad.” He glanced at her,
careful not to see her white beautiful
hands. She locked obstinate. “You see,
I’m no good; never shall be any good, I
can tell. I’m nobody—-nothing. And you’re
somebody—very much somebody. And I’m
damned if I’m going to have you tagging
round after a nothing who ought to be
dead. So there it is. Sorry to be rude
and all that. But there it is.”
She laughed again, the obstinacy in the
sound seeming to become steady and defi-
nite. “You’re giving me the boot, aren’t
you, Don?” she asked lightly.
“I’m asking you to give it to me.”
She stood up. “Well, I won’t. And I
won’t take it myself either. I’ll tell you
what I will do.”
His eyes sped past the white shadows of
her hands to her face. “What?” he said.
“I’ll play you nine holes before dinner.
And I’ll drive you out to Swamper’s Gully
for a day’s fishing to-morrow.”
She won, of course. You couldn't make
people do the sensible thing when you
couldn’t tell them all the truth. All the
truth was part of the vanished rhythm. How
could he tell her that since that mighty white
hand had hung over him in delirium he was a
useless nuisance in a world black with terror ?
But she won, of course. They were married
at the Picton church, and old Palliser tried
to look fatherly and everybody gushed.
Harley, his heart sick with panic, surren-
dered to her idea of a year’s fishing and
shooting and golf, riding, tennis—anything
that kept them out and moving all day.
Palliser gave him the sack from the office
for the year; he wasn’t to show his face
there.
One resolution he made —you had to try to
do your best with the thing. Never would
he look again at Miriam’s beautiful, famous
hands. As far as they were concerned he
would be blind as well as half insane.
For nine months he stood it, keeping this
resolution inviolate. She fagged round the
bush and the place with him in all weathers,
got drenched and sunburnt without losing
her beauty, worked like a nigger in her light
and laughing way. But it was no go. There
came a day on which Harley knew that he
was going insane. The hand had beaten him.
It filled every dawn and every horrible night.
It lurked immense behind every gum-tree, in
the sleeve of every servant, every man he
saw on the road.
So he told her it was no go. They must
part—it could easily be arranged so that
she was free. He couldn’t stand it—he was
going definitely mad, and he was damned if
he would stand it.
Her face looked grave and tragic in the
firelight, but she laughed and lit a cigarette.
“Well, that’s that, isn’t it?” she said, and
paused, staring into the fire. “Righto,” she
said finally. “Give it a week or so to settle
itself —we can both behave ourselves—and
then we’ll call it a.day. We’ll put in the
day at Lashley to-morrow, and —and carry-
on.” Abruptly she got out of her chair and
came over to him, putting a hand on his
shoulder. He forced his eyes to continue
to look at the fire; never once in these
months had he looked at her hands. “Righto,
Don dear,’’ she said again. “Good night.”
At Lashley the water was muddy after
the rains. There didn’t seem a chance of
any sport. He got down on to the level
of the water, and fagged along with his
rod and line. Miriam was silent, fagging
along behind him. The place was clogged
with mud, slippery and dangerous; there
wasn’t a chance of even a decent stance.
At a break in the bank Miriam took the
higher level while, he carried on on the
lower. His foot slipped and he found him-
self standing in the churning yellow water.
He clambered out and stood helplessly; his
weight had broken down the little track.
There was no way, back or forward.... He
looked at the wall of the bank rising to a
little peak here. That was the only way.
He started the slippery climb, sliding down
two feet for every one he rose. Suddenly
the loosened bank gave and he felt himself
going.
“Don, my dear, my dear!” sounded from
above in a voice that he had never heard
before, a voice warm with deep and endless
love, and yet sharp with panic, too.
“It’s all right,” he said, groping vainly
for some sort of hold.
“It isn’t,” the voice said. “Here —catch
hold.”
Looking up he saw Miriam’s two hands
stretched out over him, the fingers curved to
grasp his hands. But no terror came surging
over him. These were brown hands, small
and brown and dear, all scarred and
scratched with some sort of work....
The rhythm came softly back, tuning the
world and life to the proper measure. He
looked from the famous hands that had
worked with his wounded spirit all these
months to the beautiful face above them,
and all the striving settled to quietude.
“Miriam, Miriam,” he said, taking the
hands in his.
The Happy Homestead.
I have thought about it often; I have been
there in my dreams
When the little gate was swinging in the
breeze,
And the shining panes were winking in the
friendly golden beams
Of the sun that slanted through the pepper-
trees.
By the pebbled path that wandered from
the wee gate to the door
There were winsome flowers nodding gay
and free,
And I glimpsed the pansies velvet, and the
modest pinafore
Of a baby violet peeping up at me!
I have loved that tiny homestead; I have
cherished it for long;
It’s a dream I hope that some day will
come true, ,
When a summer sun is glowing, and the
magpie’s liquid song
Thrills the sweet soul of my ,gard|eni
through and through.
On the small porch of my dream-house there
are trellises of vine
Where the dapple-breasted honeyeaters
come,
While they slake their thirst by taking dainty
sips of mellow wine
From the blossom cups where brown bees
are a-hum.
There’s a seat within the porch where one
may sit at twilight time;
Sit to watch the moon come up above the
hills,
While the night wind stirs the tree-tops in
a sort of elfin rhyme, .
Lulling soft the soul with peace that it
distils.
There’s a misty, dewy splendor in the garden
when the moon
Swings her silver lamp above the Milky
Way;
And you seem to glimpse the tripping of the
wee folks’ magic shoon
As they tread the fairy mazes of their play.
In my house the rooms are spotless, and the
windows are flung wide
To entice the sun to dance upon the floor;
And the forest wind may enter with its
breath of London pride
In the golden days of spring through open
door.
In the winter all is cosy, and the firelight
glows and falls
On the roomy chairs drawn close up to
the heat;
While the rosy flames form patterns ’mid
the pictures on the walls,
Fairy patterns that are very quaint and
sweet.
In my house are bowls of flowers, feasts of
beauty to the eye.
Summer brings her gift of roses to each
room!
In the spring the brown boronia and the
gillyflowers try
To outshine the yellow splendor of the
broom.
Bronze chrysanthemums and dahlias, mixed
with leaves of russet tint,
Make a vivid show through autumn’s chilly
days,
While the winter brings pale snowdrops and
gay berries without stint—
Thus my rooms are ever new in many
ways!
I have pondered on it often; I have wandered
there at will,
While the sun made gleams of laughter
on the eaves,
And the thrushes and the magpies poured
their silver lays until
All the music seemed to ripple through
the leaves.
I have loved that tiny homestead; I have
cherished it for long;
It’s a dream I hope that some day will
come true,
When a summer sun is glowing, and the
magpie’s liquid song
Thrills the sweet soul of my warden
through and through.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


r ~"'
M
;
u
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES CHURCH, Brisbane, mwrnon wvcr u e iuitcc
N.Z. Office—93-107 I'eatherstou Street, Wellington. MINtUKU fftM, N. 5. WALIIO
Victorian Oiiice—“Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide. B.A.
SoP
1b e
i\
-''VrVr.
S
UNBEAM fame is world wide. Time, and again
Sunbeam efficiency has upheld British prestige
on Land, Sea and in the Air, just as it has
brought lasting satisfaction to innumerable motorists.
For overseas markets the 16-h.p., 20-h.p. and
25-h.p. models are specially recommended. They
are being shipped to and are giving satisfaction in
every part of the world.
For export, all Sunbeam Cars have standard
track, a ground clearance of 9" at the lowest point,
special springing and a larger radiator with fan to
ensure perfect riding and adequate cooling under all
conditions,
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
TIIE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, 91-97 Flinders Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. ARTHUR BALES, LTD., 867-371 Murray Street, Perth.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD,, 69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
MANUFACTURERS:
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Wolverhampton, England.
SPECIAL EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
V 12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l.
V ' CaUes: “SUBEAMOCO.” London.
GET THE NEWS OF ALL AUSTRALIA
FOR
Your Week-end Reading.
BUY THE NATIONAL WEEKLY WITH THE NATION’S NEWS.
In Current Events and Literature. In the Home and Social Life.
In Sport and Agriculture. In Picture and Story.
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at—
-113 Pitt Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
“The Examiner”
Tasmania's Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
CRAIG &AITKEN,6S4 GEORG!
in order for two years free.
s=ooo SATISFYING SHAVES
IN ONE
RAZOR
RAZOP and share with thousands of others the
that shave after shave of satin smooth-
-3M 1 brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR-,
e
r
KEEP
YOUR
CRIP
ON
HEALTH
WITHOUT health you lose a
great deal of interest in life,
your ambitions flag and
achievement becomes increas-
igly difficult. You feel slack.
Constipation is the cause of
most of the bad health these
days. People suffer headaches,
biliousness, indigestion with-
out thinking that the cause is
constipation—an evil which
may develop into something of
a serious nature if care is not
taken.
Beecham’s Pills that tried
and trusted remedy—possess
in a remarkable measure the
power to assist the stomach,
liver and bowels to work in
harmony and so to conquer
constipation.
If you are troubled by this most
serious complaint remember
that relief can be speedily and
safely effected and
health restored by
taking
S^L
j’V’ASv U«
V.ffl
The remedy you need for Sic) f Headache,
Constipation, Biliousness, Indigestion,
Disordered
and
Liver.
“A KERMATH ALWAYS RUNS”
These dependable marine
engines are built with ex-
ceptional care, all parts are
evenly balanced, and the
completed engine is minute-
ly tested by the most
exacting experts.
All parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.
3 to 150 H. P.
1 to 6 cylinders
4~cycle Engines
HALL BROS., Ltd.
Careening Cove
(Foot of Willoughby St.)
Milson’s Point
North Sidney, N. S. W
£
1M
Marine
Engines
m
I
m
:rmath
Manufacturing
Company
Detroit. Mich,
U. S- A.
Cable Address
Ketmath
e
17
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
AN IDEAL WINTER HOME. The most sheltered spot on the Harbor.
Incomparable for Comfort. Excellent Cuisine and Service. Private Beach
and Amphitheatre Baths. Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4-| Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast if required. Luncheons, Afternoon Teas, Dinners
Delightful 25-minutes 1 trip from City by Ferry or Motor
P - RESERVATIONS:' Y 3012. 4 Lines
6 °„6V .
V*|o
cv9
s c
s 6
*\e
6
2 9
. \ i
O'" i'-v
4


LONG LIFE
ffev
V
►:
%
X
V >
V-./
y<s3Sw'
m
fSf
:••• ,
S’*
iflßi
■■.‘o .■? •
'••V
m
m
*3 ■.
m
*
•V'•*»■•'■'
v -'vv
/N MOULDED CONTAINERS .
BATTERIES
TYPE 6—XC9—IGL,
for running-board mounting.
Upholding*
the honour
of a
Great Name
TYPE 3—XCI3—ISH,
for chassis mounting.
Suitable for Arrol-
Johnston, Standard,
Armstrong-Siddeley,
Hillman, Rover and
most cars with 12-
volt systems.
Voltage - - 12 volts
Capacity, 5 7 amp.
hrs. at the 20-hr.
rate of discharge.
Dimensions - - 7in.
wide x 1 long
over lugs x 9fin.
high over lid.
Weight - - -741 b.
Holding-down bolts
£in. diam. x 12|in.
centres.
For more than 35 years the
makers of the Exide Battery
have stood for all that is finest
and best in batteries. The Exide
reputation has been ensured by a
policy of constant experimenting,
testing, and careful building. And
from Exide have emanated many
improvements that have definitely
affected and advanced the entire
battery industry. Among recent
productions is the range of Exide
Monobloc batteries, as illustrated.
Suitable for most
cars using a 6-volt
system.
Voltage - - - 6 volts.
Capacity: 85 amp.
hrs. at the 20-hr.
rate of discharge.
Dimension: 7 5-1 6in.
wide x 9-Jin. long x
9 Jin. high over
handles.
Weight - - - -461 b.
They possess the enormous cranking power and long life
always associated with Exide. The material of which they
are made (not put on the market until after years of testing
both at home and in the tropics) is superior to any other. It
is unaffected by heat or cold, and is chemically inert.
That . „„ £x(6e TYPE «„«, EVERY CAR txitiSERVICF.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
behind it
N.S.W.: GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., LTD., Hunt Street, off Wentworth
Avenue, Sydney
Q’LAND: “EXIDE” BATTERY SERVICE (Q.), LTD., 472-474 Queen
Street, Brisbane.
S. AUS.: UNBEHAUN & JOHNSTONE, LTD., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
W. AUS.: UNBEHAUN & JOHNSTONE (W.A.), LTD., Radio House,
383-387 Murray Street, Perth.
VIC.: A. P. SUTHERLAND, Queen Bridge (2 Maffra Street), South
Melbourne.
NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS;
HOPE, GIBBONS, LTD., Wellington, Auckland and Christchurch,
