

•* •>•*->£
Wt *.♦.
*
•••
» ■
•X*
•%
w*
•• •
'•.***'
• .*« 4 ,
-:r>
• ;•: #
•:*:•
•74
• ••
*>
>±
•••
V*.
••
S-.
••
*.4
$
S'.
55
$
*.*
:•:
•*••
••
•.*
•:v>
••;
*
:**v-
••
•X-
--..•*••>* M%t mmmamMmmmmmmmmmm—m
*•
**
*’Vs
AV
yy-:
>:wfiftasg
.•*
s-
>V;
J
/V
✓///
r
-*
r
>Vv f i
:^svva
/S, .4
HWcstSni) Clubs
JohuDewaroSons li
••••
Distillers PERTH,(Scofl&ixdte LONDON
.••••
*
"i.
The Bulletin
/ifaimaZ?-~UhU' cuuKj t/cu,\.eiA% f 4ee/fiaqe,
Vcl. 49.—N0. 2536.
Wednesday, September 19, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
1 1928 is now ready, and will be for
warded with full particulars and terms on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
420 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Ability and bluff plus perfect health
Is fortune's formula for fame and wealth:
Efficiency, publicity and puff,
The will to win—ability and bluff.
But quality will be the final test.
And what you. give must always be the best—
For coughs and colds the best to give, be sure,
Is Woods’ Great Peppermint Gure.
—Advt.
Learn
Story Writing
kJ u* l Vf at HOME
This BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ’
My Name
My Address
Lumbago
Jl Form of Rheumatism
This painful trouble will, often defy ordinary
rheumatic salts and kidney pills, but it
yields to Harrison’s Pills. The reason is
that Harrison’s Pills get rid of the cause
as nothing else can. The best and quickest
relief known. Every chemist has Harrison’s
Pills, in three sizes, at 2/-, 3/- and 5/-.
Don’t wait; don’t suffer. Try Harrison’s
Pills now—it’s a remedy you can really
trust.
SHORT STORIES —Have you any ideas?
What is the use of them if you cannot
put them into proper shape and sell them?
WRITE TO—
METROPOLITAN BUSINESS COLLEGE, LTD.,
33S PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS THAT WILL FASCINATE
AND HELP YOU.
The most lucid and advanced of Modern
Teachings on
PHILOSOPHY, RELIGION AND
OCCULTISM
are found in the works of
RUDOLF STEINER, Ph.D., Vienna,
that great Seer and Leader of European thought
for more than two decades. lie was the
Founder of the General Anthroposofihical
Society for the Study of Spiritual Science and
knowledge of Higher Worlds, together with the
Study of the Constitution of Man and his inti-
mato rela.tion to the Cosmos as a whole.
Write for particulars of this literature to
THE SECEETARY,
Box 3229 P, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
p
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO.
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY.
She
En
gland.
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives:
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.SS.
df
u
11
A New Word with a
Vital New Meaning
to Every Car Ownerl
■
MEANS: “Using Alemite equipment to force genuine
Alemite lubricants into the bearings and gears of your car.”
This makes new*running cars of middle'aged
cars: avoids 80% of all repair bills —and
does what ordinary “greasing” will NOT DO
"ALEMITE-ING” is of vital in-
terest to most car owners for
two big reasons. First —it will keep
your car running as smoothly at
80,000 miles as it did at 8,000!
And more important, perhaps —it
will avoid 80% of usual repair bills.
The amount garage and repair men
say is due solely to improper lubri-
cation.
NOT Ordinary “Greasing ”
Don’t confuse Alemite-ing with or-
dinary “greasing.” For cheap greases
will never give you true Alemite pro-
tection. Many “greases” break down
under pressure—literally melt away.
They are dangerously inefficient, be-
cause heavy with “fillers,” soap and
fatty acids.
Means Using
Genuine Alemite Lubricant
Alemite Lubricant, on the other
hand is a pure solidified oil that will
stand up under 3,000 pounds pres-
sure! (Average “grease” breaks
down under 200 pounds pressure.)
It resists heat up to 200°. And will
lubricate bearings properly at 30° be-
low zero. You must have all-weather
lubrication if you’d eliminate burnt
out bearings and rattles that come
from worn, corroded bearings.
Genuine Alemite Lubricant (for use
with both Alemite and Alemite-Zerk
Compressors) is on sale in handy 1
and 5 pound tins. Or, if your service
station does your lubricating—insist
they use genuine Alemite Lubricant
for your Alemite-ing.
Vital for GEARS, too
Insist that your service station use
trade-marked Alemite Gear Lubri-
cant—one grade for summer driving,
one for winter conditions. The
Bassick Manufacturing Company,
Division of Stewart-Warner, Chi-
cago, U. S. A.
The Alemite Fittings
Modern dust-proof Alemite and
Alemite-Zerk fittings for chassis
bearings. Lubricant is shot
through them under high pres-
sure to the heart of the bearing.
Old grease and grit thus forced
«ut —clean new lubricant sur-
rounds the entire bearing.
sd
Alemite Compressors
To conform to fittings, com-
pressors come in two styles—
Alemite and Alemite-Zerk. The
Alemite Compressor forces lu-
bricant through bearing by
twisting handle —the Alemite-
Zerk “gun” by a simple thrust-
ing motion.
fsd
The Alemite-ed Bearing
Cut-open view of lubricated
bearing. Note how lubricant
under pressure forces way en-
tirely through bearing.
No. 830
High Pressure Lubrication
®X. B. M. Co.
Reg. U, S. Pat. Off.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited for old and young. For Coughs,
Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza.
Uj
vo'SS
HU
ON
What the Medical World says:—The Lancet:
“Proved to be as effective bactericidally as is
creosote.” THIS REPORT FROM THE “LAN-
CET” LABORATORY IS UNDOUBTED EVIDENCE
of the VALUE OF EUMENTHOL JUJUBES as an
ANTISEPTIC.
1/6 a Tin.
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers; or
Post Free from the Sole Manufacturers —-
Hudson's Eumenthol Co. Ltd., Sydney,
on receipt of 1/6 in stamps of any Province
The Red Page
Of Modern Novels
Oh. to outrun this age and leave behind
This cloying taint that sickens every
sense;
Cross some austere oblivion whence the mind
Might find again its pristine innocence
And turn, with quick relief, to things of day !
Why should I my serenity betray
With all the windy heats of these clesires—
These sick vicarious passions which to me
Mean less than nothing; yet whose heady
fires
Stiffen and scorch my mind’s integrity
And burn its calm incuriousness away?
Yet shall I now find comfort or redress,
Who lie so sick of modern cleverness?
N.S.W.
CHRIS HARPER.
Edmund Fisher
When one surveys the Australian critical
circus one appreciates Edmund Fisher, for
40 years dramatic critic of The Bulletin
in* Melbourne. Fisher was probably not a
great critic as greatness is estimated among
the Charlemagnes of the craft, nor was he
always a highly informed one; but he had
several engaging qualities, among them a
frequently stunning grace of style, and a
fine integrity, preserved and defended
against all the forces that strove to spike
his guns. Fisher’s integrity was something
to marvel at in a land where almost every
writer on the theatre is congenitally com-
plimentary or openly enjoys the friendship
of the press-agent. The old man was never
found moistening adjectives with the
managerial whisky, nor was he ever present
at those exclusive suppers where one is per-
suaded to mistake an actress’s body for her
soul. On the contrary, he was bluntly con-
temptuous of such associations. Not that he
was puritanly blind to a little dolce far
amove rather facetiously disguised as an
actress, but simply because, like all good
critics, he held the mummer per se in low
repute. The result of Fisher’s aloofness to
many lipsalved Bernhardts and post-dated
Irvings was that they were summed up with
a suavity and honesty deplored by toy
pop-gunners who, in their infrequent fits of
disesteem, endeavor to stage a shambles
by firing furiously with the ammunition
carefully tethered to the barrels.
Fisher’s wonder to me —and I was proud
to serve under him for several years—was
an adroitness of depreciation never com-
passed by any of,his competitors. He was
not always accurate and watchful, and some-
times a ridiculous penny Ibsen would fuse
his man-of-the-world urbanity into a half-
column explosion of temper; but in most
things he was swift to see a substantial
fault or pretence and pin it down in all its
flaunting cocksureness. His'pen was nimble
in most of its exercises. He composed
matter, that was 100 per cent, worthier in
its thoijght and dress than the banalia of
the convicts shackled to the treadmill of
cliche. Liberty he had, of course,
in the fullest measure permissible under the
libel laws. His liberty of revelation was
his greatest boon. So much that was
darkly dubious, hapless and third-rate he
could whisk into the open day for the
laughter of his readers.
Fisher has gone, buried deep in a mouldy
graveyard, and there remain few to carry
on criticism as a moderately high function
in this smiling Commonwealth. One or
two whom I could name show that lurking
sense of pleasure in the game without which
criticism is idle reporting or a cataloguing
of vain superiorities; but outside those one
or two we have an order of invertebrates
hitherto unknown to science; a group of
mostly flabby characters, who, in the sweat
of their applause, bid. the little genteel words
come forth and behave nicely in the cause
o f .veet English and good breeding. These
bed-soxed intellects are at home to an
"Abie’s Irish Rose,” but the advent of a
Green Hat” or a “Rain” starts them ran-
sacking the thesaurus for all the amplifica-
tions of “sordid” and “degrading.” So long
as the Seventh Commandment is left in-
violate, however, the Monday morning’s
tale after the Saturday premiere is one of
huzzas and welcome arches to the veriest
goat’s food.
Journalism is no mean craft in Australia,
but in the channels of our dramatic criti-
cism, I fear, dillwater runs deep. Fisher,
the departed, knew it, and scoffed freely
at it; but then he was that rare fellow, a
cultivated Englishman—-which is to say that
he was abnormally sensitive to nincom-
poopery in all its ways.
C. R. BRADISH.
Baptising Books
Out of the many thousands of eyes that
keenly scanned the list of the titles bestowed
upon the 542 manuscripts entered for The
Bulletin's Great Australian Novel compe-
tition, how many observed the scarcity of
really distinctive titles? But not even
Shakspeare managed to find (or filch)
names for his offspring at all worthy of his
robust group of giants. He confesses as
much quite frankly, for he rather con-
temptuously entitles his best-loved comedy
“As You Like It”—surely a well-bred,
politely bored insult to his patrons, the
great unwashed. And so, in a like spirit,
‘What You Will.” When he called the
greatest literary works of all time by such
names as “Hamlet,” “Lear,” “Macbeth,”
“Othello,” he was merely dodging a diffi-
culty, for an adequate name for a book
must be more than merely the name of a
person, especially if that person is hitherto
unknown to fame. A rather striking in-
stance is the report that a play of Shak-
speare’s that is now lost was called “Car-
denio.” How inadequate such a title is
may be readily seen when we try to con-
jecture what was its subject matter.
To adapt a threadbare jest, a good book-
title is like a lady’s dress: it is long enough
to cover the subject but short enough to
be interesting. Such a name would be
short, novel (i.e., hitherto unused), distinc-
tive, arresting and appropriate. It is so
much easier to say these things than to
find a title that fulfils the conditions. How
worried Thackeray was to find the title
that would fit his greatest masterpiece, till
the gods breathed the very title into his
mind: whereupon he rushed downstairs
shouting, “I have found it! ‘Vanity Fair!’
‘Vanity Fair!’” And truly this must, be
the best book-title ever devised. It fits the
novel like a glove; it has dignity, depth
of meaning, allusiveness, distinction.
Except for “Bleqk House” I don’t think
Dickens has. any title that shows a tinc-
ture of genius: “Hard Times” is a good
title but depressing. The best titles are
brief. Mrs. Oliphant wrote a book called
“He That Will Not When He May.” Even
the name of that capital yarn of Besant’s,
“The World Went _ Very Well Then,” is
too long even for it’s three volumes. “For
the Term of His Natural Life” certainly
covers the subject, but it is cumbersome.
It reminds one that Bernard Shaw is not
always a genius: at titles he has his hits
and his misses. “The Intelligent Woman’s
Guide to Socialism and Capitalism” is
almost as poor a title as the pseudorßiblical
name “Widowers’ Houses” is a rich one.
Among his misses may be accounted “Can-
dida.” I remember, however, that “Can-
dida” was not a miss, but a matron.
Which are the best titles in our language?
I think “The Egoist” must rank very high.
It completely covers the subject, is terse,
and distinctive and appetising. In choosing
“Odtaa” Masefield hit on a novelty: it
covers the subject, is brief (“as woman’s
love,” says Hamlet), arresting and mys-
terious (does it not stand for the charm-
ing phrase, “One Damn Thing After An-
other”?). Other admirable names are
“Wormwood” and “Vendetta!”—in fact,
Miss Corelli had a remarkable nose for a
marketable book-title, as witness “The Sor-
rows of Satan” (Aha!), “God’s Good Man”
(Hallelujah!), “The Mighty Atom”
(Shivers!), “The Master Christian”
(Glory!), “A Romance of Two Worlds”
(Heaven and Hell!).
“She” seems to me to be a good title
for a novel—really for any novel. “She” is
Rider Haggard’s masterpiece; and as a title
I do not think he ever excelled it. “Rob-
bery Under Arms” is the best Australian
book-title that I can call to mind. But “A
Sentimental Bloke” is well in the running
for the first place. “In the Days When
the World Was Wide” is amongst the
worst; it illustrates only too well the ten-
uity of thought and the lack of the power
of condensation that too often characterise
Lawson’s work.
To secure appropriateness in the titles of
collections of short stories one must meet,
I fancy, with a divine accident. Such an
accident befell W. W. Jacobs when he
called a collection of his delightful sea
stories “Light Freights.” So also with
“Many Cargoes.” The definition by
Thomas Carlyle that genius is an infinite
capacity for taking pains is illustrated by
the extreme felicity of the titling of 0,
Henry’s “Cabbages and Kings,” for these
very delightful stories bring in all the
varied paraphernalia that Lewis Carroll’s
walrus mentions in his immortal ballad,
“The Walrus and the Carpenter”—to do
which is surely one of the most astounding
tours de force in our language.
The quotation-title such as “Somehow
Good” or “If Winter Comes” is rather fine
(Continued on page 5.)


'•Truth in Advertising ** is the basis of sound merchandising.
Anthony Horderns
Blinds and Flyproof Doors.
11l
Ugg
ml lu.l.'K
!
■
111 LI Ml
X-L-ALL Verandah Blinds.
X-L-All Verandah Blinds are constructed
standard sizes.
X-L-All Verandah Louvre Blinds have
overlapping laths woven together with
Patent Chain Links, are sun- and rain-
proof, admit ample ventilation, and are
ideal for privacy and sleeping-out ver-
andahs. Substantially made. Easily
erected. Beautiful appearance. Painted
Green or Brown.
Sizes and Prices:
standard sizes.
Ready-made Flyproof Doors.
lifflg::
No. 1.
Made from thoroughly Seasoned Redwood and Galvanised
wire gauze. All timber is well-dressed.
3 Butt Hinges, Spring Catch and Stop Bead 4/6 extra.
Size— No. I No. 2 No. 3 No. 4 No. 5
2ft. 6in. x 6ft. 6in 18/6 20/- 22/- 22/9 25/3
2ft. Bin. x 6ft. Bin 18/9 20/9 22/6 23/6 25/9
2ft. I Oin. x 6ft. 1 Oin. . . 19/6 21/6 23/6 23/9 26/-
3ft. Oin. x 7ft. Oin 19/9 21/9 23/9 24/3 26/9
We will quote for Wire Doors to any design or size.
QUOTATIONS ON APPLICATION.
Window Screens
1 PANEL. Minimum sizes, 8 square feet. Each . . 11/6
Larger sizes, Extra 1/- square foot.
2 PANELS. Minimum size, I 3 square feet. Each .. 17/-
Larger size, Extra 1/- per square foot.
Always quote width first, and drop second.
(Dept. Third Floor—Carriage Not Paid.)
No. 5.
Verandah Blinds
and Awnings
In best quality Stripe Duck or Linen,
with 3 inch block stripe or broken
stripes, in Brown, Blue, Red or Green
shades. All blinds are quoted with
2 x I inch top lath; 2-|in. Octagon
roller; 2 straps and staples; ! double
and one single pulley. Best Linen Sash
Cord and Cleat.
We make every kind of Verandah or
Window Drop-out Blinds, and will
quote and forward samples on appli-
cation.
Stripe Linen, with fadeless stripes
Drop 6 7 Bft.
Width, 6ft 31/6 35/- 40/-
Width, 7ft 33/6 38/- 43/-
Width, Bft 40/- 43/- 47/-
Width, 9ft 41/6 45/- 48/6
Width, I Oft. .. . 46/3 50/- 57/6
Striped Duck, extra heavy quality
Width, 6ft
Width, 7ft
Width, Bft
Width, 9ft
Width, I Oft. .. .
36/3 27/11 29/6
31/3 33/6 35/9
34/3 36/9 39/3
36/- 38/6 41/-
39/6 42/6 45/6
Window Blinds
Our Stock of Window Hollands in-
cludes Cream, Ecru, Beige, Sage (deep
stone shade), Nigger, Chocolate, Navy,
Reseda, Poplar, Art. Green, or Red
shades. We will estimate for plain or
trimmed blinds. Charges are consis-
tently moderate.
Pinoleum Blinds
Variegated Pinoleum Verandah Blinds.
Sizes 3ft. x Bft. 4ft. x Bft.
Each 18/6 22/6
Sizes 4ft. 6in. x Bft. sft. x Bft.
Each 24/9 27/9
Sizes sft. 6in. x Bft. 6ft. x Bft,
Each 31/6 33/9
Fadeless Holland
Best Quality Fadeless Holland. Popu-
lar colors, including Beige, Sage,
Nigger, Chocolate or Green.
Widths, ins. . . 24 30 36 40 42
Per yard .. 1/7 2/- 2/3 2/7 2/9
Widths, ins. . . 45 48 54 60 72
Per yard . . 2/11 3/3 3/6 4/3 5/3
Venetian Blinds
Made in our own factory, from well-
seasoned assorted timber. Any color,
with 3 coats of paint. Mounted with
Carr’s best quality Ladder tape and
best linen cord.
Inside Venetian Blinds . . 1/8 per sq. ft.
Minimum size, 12 sq. ft. Each 20/-
Outside Venetian Blinds . . 2/4 sq. ft.
Minimum size, 16 sq. ft. Each 37/4
Write for our New General Mail-Order
Catalogue. Post free on request.
USE OUR “D.P.S.”
You buy at Sydney’s lowest
prices, but pay as it suits you.
There is no extra charge whatever.
Benefit by our “Deposit-Purchase
System’’—you secure the same
advantages, that is, same service
and value, as when making Cash
Purchases.
Anthony Horderns
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED,
SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


fs
V '•
•r/
c\ vK*
-1
it? '
hi
1""
H
mm
VICTORIAN CLUB BUILDING, QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
ARCHITECTS . . . Messrs. J. Plottell, Bunnett & Alsop.
BUILDER Messrs. Thos. Donald & Co.
REINFORCED throughout
on the B.R.C. System
I Concrete Reinforcement's
B.R.C. Fabric constantly gives proof of its superiority as a rein-
forcing medium, which fact is becoming increasingly recognised
by architects everywhere.
B.R.C. Reinforcement is made from steel in its strongest form
for structural purposes. It is easy to handle and simple to fix, and
affords absolute accuracy in building construction.
The result of the finished work is final efficiency and safety.
Trrrrrrrnrr
mr
nrrrrrrrrrr
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty., Ltd,
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 8861. Works: Ballarat Road, Sunshine, Victoria.
Sole Distributing Agents:
VICTORIA Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES . . J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair (Brisbane), Ltd.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . . Elder, Smith & Co., Limited, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA Elder, Smith & Co., Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Company (Aust.), Ltd., Hobart
NEW ZEALAND A C. Gillies & Laird, Ltd., Wellington.
mmmm
B-F


Special Value /
THE “D.J.”
BUSINESS SHIRT
10/6
With two collars to match
There’s complete satisfaction in a “Marlboro”
Poplin Shirt, embodying David Jones’ stan-
dard high-class workmanship. Well Cut and
made from dependable quality material. Pat-
terns are woven, thus assuring fast colors.
Neat stripe designs of blue, fawn, red, grey and
mauve. Complete with two collars with twin
tabs and stiffeners. Size 14 to 171 inches neck.
Price •. .. .. .. 10/6
\
UAI7S
m
DAVID JONES
CASTLEREAGH, MARKET, ELIZABETH STREETS
BRANCH MEN’S STORE, OPPOSITE G.P.O.
when strictly appropriate. Strange to say,
“Flaming Youth” comes under this head-
ing: it is a quotation from no less exalted
a source than “Hamlet.”
ALEX. C. WELSH.
The Teaching of Poetry
A recent reminder that before a child’s
reasoning powers have developed it is
natural for him to learn by rote, brings be-
fore us another aspect of the question—
What poetry shall we teach our children?
And because it is natural for the child so
to learn, because in that plastic period which
extends to early adolescence the memory
has a power of retentiveness that it lacks
later, I contend that that power should be
utilised to the utmost, and that the child
should be taught poetry, not only for the
profitable pleasure of the present, but also
for the pleasurable profit of the future; that
he should memorise, not only the poems
that he appreciates and understands now,
but the poems that he appreciates but will
not thoroughly understand, probably, till
he reaches the adult stage.
It is a mistake to imagine that apprecia-
tion connotes understanding. It does not.
Full appreciation, no doubt, does, but we
should not require from the immature mind
that which can be found only in the mature
mind. There are other appeals besides the
purely intellectual. There is the appeal to
the ear, for instance, and it is through this
appeal that the child’s interest is first cap-
tured in such nursery jingles as “Ride a
cock-horse to Banbury Cross.” Develop
this sense of rhythm, and he needs no under-
standing of the meaning to appreciate the
beauty of such lines as
Where Alph, the sacred river, ran,
Through caverns measureless to man,
Down to a sunless sea.
I do not want it to be thought I am
advocating that no attempt should be made
to direct the child’s understanding. That
is far from my intention. But Ido advocate
that only a general comprehension should
be required, so that, the poem having been
stored in the memory, made the child’s
own for all time, the inner meaning shall
gradually be revealed to the maturing mind
—-“Fresh births of beauty wake fresh hom-
age”—till at last
The scaled eyeball owns the mystic rod,
Visibly through His garden walketh God.
I have a vivid recollection of certain
Nature Study lessons in which we were
each given a beautiful flower, not to admire,
but to pull to pieces so that we might
discover how it was constructed. At the
conclusion of the lessor we had acquired
a number of botanical terms, and the
flowers, their beauty irretrievably destroyed,
were carried to the dust-heap. It is to a
similar destruction of poetical beauty, re-
sulting in a casting away on the dust-heap
of forgetfulness, that the “intelligent teach-
ing,” referred to by “Finn,” too often leads.
And you who would not agree with me
that complete understanding is not essential
to appreciation, can you explain the last
chapter of Ecclesiastes? Yet, having read
it, would you not consider yourself infinitely
the poorer had you not read it? Personally,
I do not know what may have been in the
mind of the master-poet when he wrote
“Childe Roland,” yet never do I read with-
out a leap of the heart
I had so long suffered in this quest,
Heard failure prophesied so oft, been writ
So many times among “The Band”-—-to wit,
The knights who to the Dark Tower’s search addressed
Their steps—tint just to fail as they seemed best,
And all the doubt was now—should I be fit?
I saw them and I knew them all. And yet
Dauntless the slug-horn to my lips I set
And blew. “Childe Roland to the Dark Tower
came.”
With these two instances I think I have
sufficiently proved my point.
In the school “Readers,” which in N. S.
Wales have been superseded during the last
12 years by magazines (in favor of which
there is much to be said), there were some
of the finest selections from our literature,
both poetry and prose. Did we understand
those poems? I imagine not—there was
little time devoted to their discussion, most
of the period being given to memorising,
following on the teacher’s reading. But
after that reading there was seldom any
doubt of at least some measure of appreci-
ation. We memorised easily, for we were
accustomed to it, and on my mind, for one,
those selections were indelibly impressed—•
treasure stored up for future delectation.
“Lay up for yourselves treasure in
Heaven,” said the Good Book. But saith it
not also, “The kingdom of Heaven is with-
in you”? And I hold that it is the treasure
that makes the heaven. Let us, therefore,
in the kingdoms of these child-minds, lay
up such treasure that in maturity those
kingdoms shall prove to be of Heaven
indeed.
CAREL.
Outward Bound
That is the general title of a series of
close-packed, informative books that are
being issued by J. M. Dent, two of which
of purely Australian interest are just to
hand —The Australian Bush, by Mary E.
Fullerton, and The Cities of Australia, by
Kathleen Ussher. Their association in the
mailbag is appropriate in more ways than
one. There is, perhaps, no more striking
contrast in the world than our Bush and our
City. They are as different as may be.
And so are the books that here attempt to
describe them.
The first is a careful, candid work, written
by one who knows her subject and seems
to be in personal contact with it from be-
ginning to end. More, she is saturated with
the essence of its best literature, has
absorbed the true content of Lawson’s
work, and has drawn deep at the well of
E. J. Brady. The other volume is informative,
but it is the production of one who seems
to have adopted for her motto “All for
effect, and the world well lost.” In the
essentials she is well enough, and her book
on the whole is interesting and contains a
lot of good stuff, but it represents a fair
example of what happens when the en-
thusiast turns historian. She has read
the hasty, unforgivable absurdities writ-
ten by insular Englishmen and others,
who have come here either prede-
termined to slate the place or to
remain blind and deaf while racing
through it in the highest powered car avail-
able. Smarting under that sort of treatment,
we infer, she has armed herself with rose-
colored spectacles and set out to go half
a dozen better in the other direction.
Quite all right, this sort of writing, if
Australia were desperate for recruits; if it
wanted them, good, bad or indifferent. It
doesn’t. And the case is stated truthfully
by the other of the writers under review:—
Oh, vast Australian Bush that needs the millions!
It will give bread, and it will give that which goes
with bread, happiness and content and well-being.
It will give the stranger what it gives its native,
can he but reach it. It will put its magic upon
him so that he love it for itself as well as
for the material things that it yields him. But the
immigration schemes must be right, and the immi-
grants must be right.
There speaks an authentic Australian voice.
The British who read that aright and then
come here are the British that Australia
needs, urgently needs. But we cannot be-
lieve that this sort of gush (by the other
writer) can serve a desirable end: —
She [th,e general servant] has been replaced by
the electric cleaner, the electric sweeper, the electric
cooker, the electric washer, the electric heater, the
electric freezer, the electric toaster, the electric
boiler, the electric fan, the electric lire, the electric
sewing-machine; and the family live in constant fear
and trembling lest the supply should fail, or the
electricians go “on strike,” and leave them —without
a home at all!
Whether the writer means it or not, the im-
pression that that and much more in the
book leaves is that it represents the ordinary
state of things in the ordinary city home.
If it did, our cities would be without peer
in the world. We know that they are fine,
that no Britisher of ordinary education who
has not seen them is likely to realise how
fine they are, but we would try to steady
our admiration with the brake of common-
sense. This writer seems to be out, honestly,
but none the less desperately, to convince
the world that Australia and Paradise are
something like synonymous terms.
We would say to such Britishers as care
to listen: Skim through this book—it con-
tains a host of interesting historical facts
and is truer in essence than what many
others have given you—and then put it
up on the shelf, and open Mary E. Fuller-
ton’s book, and keep it open. This writer
is Australian-born, descended from jmur
own tace as most Australians are; her
nearer ancestors were immigrants who paid
their passage to Australia in the early days.
She obviously loves her country, but she
has no blatant pride in it, and what she
says here you may take as pretty correct.
In the space allowed, she is comprehensive,
and if she errs at all, she errs in the way
the true Australian naturally does—on the
side of being careful in praise.
The “purpose” aspect of these books has
been emphasised here, because it is the
avowed aim of the editor of the series,
Ashley Gibson, to help, among others,
emigrants. But the Australian reader will
find Mary Fullerton’s book an entertaining
volume quite away from its purpose. She
deals with all parts of non-city Australia in
compact and calm terms, very readably
and on the whole justly. Her little chapter
on the literature of the Bush is a pleasing
piece of summarising. It is a pity she has
tacked on to Lawson the weak appellation
“the Bret Harte of Australia,” but tags are
no doubt useful where space is so limited,
and perhaps it is carping criticism to men-
tion such slips at all in reviewing a work
that is so generally good.
Return of MSS.
Manuscripts entered for The Bulletin’s
Prize Novel Competition are now being
returned to their authors, where stamps
for such purpose were sent. Others who
desire the return of their MSS. are re-
quested to communicate with this office at
their earliest convenience. In the case of
Sydney residents, it is better that owners
should call.
A Satchel of Books
The Davenham Heritage, by R. Heber
Poole (Long). An average skimming over
the surface of such things as suspected par-
entage, forged documents, complicated love
and ultimate happiness, impossible to be-
lieve, and giving the customary false picture
of English aristocracy. It contains, how-
ever, one of those mysteries that fascinate
and that keep this sort of fiction the most
generally popular of all.
While Rivers Ran, by Maurice Walsh
(Cornstalk). Another Maurice—Hewlett—
complained that because he had written “The
Forest Lovers” the critics insisted that he
should go on writing “Forest Lovers” all
his life, and no doubt many will fault “While
Rivers Ran” because it is not another “A
Key Above the Door.” It does resemble that
excellent book in some respects, but it is
more important that on the whole it is new
—a book of living people, interesting situa-
tions, fishing and loving in the Scotch open
air; in short, an entertaining and satisfying
novel, *
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
See-see; Well done, but we don’t see a
place for it at present... .M.M.H.: You take too
long to get there... .Effel: Always like to oblige
out-back l’eaders, but can’t undertake to give exclu-
sive racing information.... Kog: In the Treaty he
is styled “His Majesty the King of Great Britain,
Ireland and the British Dominions beyond the Seas,
Emperor of India.” Hindenburg is “President of
the German Empire”... .Thais: Its floods of tears
swept it into the w.p.b G.P.A.: No use for
verse about “the land of sorrow and of gloom, where
tears are rife and sad sobs b00m”... .8.L.T.: Your
“Rays” throw no new light... .R.V.N.: “The God-
dess” has feet of clay—and too many of them in
some lines... .Jean D.: Very crude stuff... .5.W.0.:
A possible par. in it.... Lewis R.: Unamusing
nonsense... .8.F.N.: Verse as dead as the
bodies J.J.McIt.: Merely a statement that
a successful gold-digger was killed.. , .H.H.W.:
Dreary... .J.D.P.: Can’t fit it in... .Laroth: Dread-
ful verse... .R.L.P.: Hovered on the edge....
Sefiorita: Don’t like it... .E.8.H.: Lacks skill, and
wanders. And a drunk in N.S.W. can get off much
■cheaper than that J.G.8.: A story exactly similar
to your “entirely original” yarn was read here two
Meeks ago... .E.W.11.: Tiresome style. Why spoil
paper by telling what everyone knows? W.L.P.:
Story on a very ancient model... .R.R.F.: We woke
up to the “and-then-he-woke-up” yarn long before
the end.... T.F.: No luck.... L.R.W.: P00r... . D.G.:
Not far off... .T.J.H.: Reference to yourself as “an
old, faded flower unscented” pleased us... .G.M.8.:
Doesn’t convey any sense of reality... .Bish: “No
Good to Gundy” is no good to us... .S.M.Y.: Your
notion seems to be that any number of words can
be cut into lengths and called a “poem”... .8.V.T.:
It’s weeping its way home. .. .C.C.S.: Hot verse
burst into flames in the w.p.b M.N.R.: We
won’t argue Allie S.: Can’t separate any
wheat from your “Chaff” ?.... 8.8. L.: “It's 3423
words.” That’s about all it is. .. .W.Y.W.: The man
who writes in faint pencil has only a faint chance.
....Eileen G.: If we were compiling a book of
hymns it might go in. .. .Pete R.: The verses halt.
. ...E.11.H.: It suffers from engine tr0ub1e......
Davey J.: You can’t rhyme “soul —gold,” for one
thing... .K.D.S.: Nearly; see if you can polish it.
P.P.L.: Settled the hash of your “Boarding-
house” B.W. (Punchbowl): Your “poem” wasn’t
“made”—it was marred.... Tor G.: Not here
shall “The sword of Damocles crash down like-
raging seas upon his 50u1”... .T.W.N.: We jumped
on your “Fallen Idol” Lola M. G.: Nothing in
it..... Jean E. O’H.: There’s hardly a noun in the
whole thing that hasn’t an (usually superfluous) adjec-
tive linked to it. That makes for dreariness.
. ...E.R.F.: Poor example of the trick story....
Boond: “Go-Getter” told to go.... The Ace: Didn’t
turn up trumps.... Eth. D.: Moves too stiffly....
Onlooker: Poor stuff... .Q.W.: A good point blunted
by preliminary tediousness... .Applec: Piffling
Philip H.: No promise in that... .Wm. C. (Ipswich) :
Weak C.W.P.: No pay-dirt in the heap Dan
H.: The idea of working a “grey” on St. Peter
fails in the treatment... .A.W. (S.A.) : “Margue-
rite” is no daisy... .R. 0.8.: Small is its worth.
....Ron C.: “Bigamist” sentenced to be returned.
.... loue P.: Twelve lines should do for that.
M.H.: The idealistic reformation is not con-
vincing M.M.H.C.: Your “true facts” need to be
shorter for that column. .. .W.F.N.: Album verse. ...
M.G.: Not even the lines to Dolly stirred u 5....
K.M.D.: Verse telling how you sing once a year has
no particular sparkle... .Mina L.: The idea is
vague.... Allen B.: Thin melodrama... . G.P. A.:
“Thoughts to thy mind now accruing” sounds more
like a financial statement than poetry.... G.R.N.
(Simla) : Your distance did not lend enchantment
to “The View” Fr. II.: The “poem” tramps back.
M.G.T.: It’s Colley Gibber’s “Blind Boy” slightly
altered Ed. W.: No plums in the pudding
E.J.W.: Striking theme badly handled F.A.L.:
Rather forced Alsta: Found it very hard to smile
through “Smilin’ Through” M.S.R.: It must be
said better than that Frank M.: Declined in our
best bedside manner... .Sydney G.: Doesn’t move
quickly enough Don J. McL.: A rough colleetior.
with an occasional gleam, but not enough gleam....
W. 8.: The denouement is good, but the rest is rather
wooden 11.A.R.: The story is familiar; did you
submit it before? M.K.T.: Not even prohibition
could be as bad as your verse about it... .A.J.R.: We
knew all about the lady from the beginning....
John Ox: Remains nameless E.E.: Improvement;
but weaknesses still spoil your verse.... Elgar O.:
The seance stuff doesn’t appeal; otherwise it is not
at all bad F.W.H.: “Tobacco” ends in smoke....
Alice L. D.: Melodious, but not quite up
Murrawee: Gently, as requested, we say that “got—
hop,” for one thing, is not rhyme Yelloman:
Too crude altogether. Still, we liked “she has gone
where none but white lilies g 0”... .E.H.W.: Verse
to Fortune wins no smile... .Fiji: We fell down-
stairs in the hurry to get a drink after reading it.
.. ..G.F.W.: A mere afternoon-tea excitement....
8.L.F.: Horrible hotchpotch.... Marshall N.: The
“clarion note” sounds more like a penny whistle in
a moment of agony... .P.P.A.: Counted 23 para-
graphs beginning with “but” and then butted the
lot out... .M.L.K.: A dish of tripe.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.M.P.: Subject unsuitable, but let us see more
of your work.... K.D.: Joke under consideration....
D. 8.: Switch on to some other hobby... .L.S.: Very
scratchy and uneven..’. .R.G.: Nothing to praise in
that effort R. J. 0.: Not even as suggestions....
J.G.: Fair; keep going C.S.D.: One’s a poor
pun; the other weighs in light. . . .11. D.: Notice
that the reprobate is still visiting temperance
meetings., y.G.S.T.: Her legs are awful... .G.P.:
As stiff as the trees that surround them C.P.L.:
one dreary old joke after another.


df


The Bulletin .
Vol. 49.—N0. 2536,
September!9,l92B.
SEEING ISN’T NECESSARILY BELIEVING.
“Four days after the Waterside Workers’ Federation ‘repudiated the pernicious and vicious Beeby award,’ and late on the second day of the strike in every port,
the Prime Minister referred to the subject in Parliament. He said: ‘There are indications that the union is not prepared to accept the award and is proposing to defy
the Arbitration Court.’”
CHESTERFIELD OF COPS: “Our waterfront friend is a trifle argumentative, what? But surely he will never so far forget
himself as to indulge in an unseemly brawl!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
24 George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: 1-4-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 2-}9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London: 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 1Z months, £1 J/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.j
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: IS months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: ll)oz., Id. United Kingdom: Ijoz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional ioz., Id. All Sea Route: IGoz., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: J/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, Zoz., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 8
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
EDITORIAL 8, 9
“ONE WAY OF CATCHING FISH”
(A cartoon by Pereival) .. .. . . 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) .. .. .. lu
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. .. 11, 12
PERSONAL PARS (illustrated) 14
PAGE DRAWINGS, by Leason and Scorfield 7, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) 17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 23, 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 20
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 29
SMOKE-OH 32
POVERTY POINT 34
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc 37
SPORTING (illustrated) . . .. 39, 41, 42
POT AND PALETTE 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 44
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 40
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
“COONARDOO” - - si, 53, 58
SHORT STORIES—
“NANCY,” by J. H. M. Abbott .. . • 55
“THE DESERT BARRIER,” by Ben Gun 57
VERSE—
“PEACH BLOSSOM,” by M. Forrest .. 66
“IDEALISM,” by Robert Dale .. ..57
TUteTfyx i jlZeix//l
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1928.
AUSTRALIA’S CROPS.
Australia began to try its hand at agri-
culture very early, and for a long time it
pursued the business in the ordinary way.
People settled on the land and grew things.
They hadn’t much capital to begin with,
for the early arrivals were an impecunious
crowd, and most of the subsequent ones
were much the same. It wasn’t till 1842
that the Government began loan-floating.
The first ten loans were raised in Australia,
which showed that the place had made
some progress, and they were repaid when
they fell due. It wasn’t till 1855, when
the community was 67 years old, that the
idea of borrowing abroad was devised with-
out any attempt to provide for repayment
on maturity. In 1901 the money-raising
industry had a great uplift through Aus-
tralian stocks being made trustee invest-
ments; that is to say, the British trustee
could put the trust money into them, and
be free of responsibility if it was lost.
Partly because of this opportunity the
purely peace liabilities of the States
grew as much in 25 years as they
had previously done in 113 years, and
State taxation rose from 14s. Id.
per inhabitant in 1902 to £3 18s. 3d.
in 1926, with an urgent demand for more.
Late in last decade a feature of the States’
business began to be the raising of loans
to help on land settlement, and the amount
sunk in this pursuit is more than the whole
liability of the most mortgaged State
amounted to in 1902.
* * * *
There is a pathetic reiteration among
Foreign-traders, shirkers who want an excuse
for the easy pawnshop habit, people who
absorb ready-made opinions and others,
that agriculture is what Australia and the
Australian are specially fitted for. The
proposition that the Australian seems pretty
well fitted for manufacturing, which
doesn’t call for all these loans, is re-
garded as something approaching an insult
to the intelligence. Considering the extra-
ordinary and costly efforts which have been
made to produce evidence in support of
the agricultural tradition the results ought
to be better. Some comparisons follow,
the figures being mostly for 1925: —
PRODUCTION OF WHEAT.
Bushels.
United States .. .. ■ . ■ • 666,496,000
Followed by Russia, Canada, India.
France, Argentina, Italy, Spain and
Germany in varying quantities.
Australia, as the last of a procession
of 10 114,-504,000
PRODUCTION OF OATS.
■United States 1,209,515,000
Followed by Russia, Canada, Ger-
many, France, Poland, United King-
d o m, Czecho - Slovakia, Sweden,
Roumania, Argentina, Denmark, Bel-
gium, Irish Free State, Italy, Spain,
Finland, Hungary, Austria, .Jugo-
slavia. Holland, Latvia, Lithuania
and Algeria.
Australia, last of 25 12,212,000
PRODUCTION OF MAIZE.
United States .. .. . . * . 2,905,029,000
Followed by Argentina, Brazil, Rou-
mania, Jugo-Slavia, Russia, Mexico,
Italy, India, Egypt, Dutch Indies,
Hungary, South African Union,
Spain, Bulgaria, Turkey, Philip-
pines, France, Canada, Portugal,
Czecho-Slovakia and Salvador.
Australia, last of 23 .. .. .. 7,432,000
PRODUCTION OF BARLEY.
Russia .. .. .. .. .. 263,730,000
Followed by United States, India, Ger-
many, Canada, Spain, Japan, Poland,
Roumania, Turkey, United Kingdom,
Czecho-Slovakia, France, French
Morocco, Korea, Denmark,. Algeria,
Hungary, Sweden, Jugo-Slavia, Egypt,
Bulgaria, Italy, Lithuania, Argentina,
Greece, Austria, Latvia and Tunis.
Australia, last of 30 .. .. .. 6,356,000
If these four main crops are added to-
gether the results are these:—
United States 4,989,833,000
Followed by Russia, Canada, France,
Argentina, Germany, India, Italy,
Roumania, Spain, Poland, Jugo-Slavia,
United Kingdom, Hungary, Czecho-
slovakia.
Australia, last of 16 .. .. .. 140,504,000
The Commonwealth is an exporter of
wheat and flour, of wine in a moderate
way, of fruit in a larger way, and of sugar,
which unfortunately has to be sold below
the local price owing to the high cost of
production. But it doesn’t supply its own
needs in coffee, chicory, flax, hemp and
other fibres, tea, tobacco, cotton, nuts, lin-
seed and other agricultural products. High
hopes arc entertained about the coming
wheat harvest, but if they are fully real-
ised the probability is that this country
will rank about seventh or eighth on the
list of nroducers. behind France and Italy.
* * 4 *
Some features of the case are the lack
of cheap water carriage; the long train dis-
tances, many of them artificially length-
ened by the craze for keeping good ports
closed and unavailable; the mixed railway
gauges, and the difficulty of providing
really economical transit when it is neces-
sary to pay 5 per cent, dividend to the
cumulative preference shareholders who
really own the lines. (Sixteen years ago
they only took about 3-2- per cent, and the
lower amount was payable on a much
smaller debt.) Then there is the fast-
growing load of State taxation, largely due
to loan swindles, and the best markets for
surplus grain are a long way off. In
addition to all else there are too many
politicians growing hypothetical wheat in
city offices, and passing insurance and en-
dowment and wage and other laws for the
farmer’s guidance. Despite (or because
of) all the expenditure on land settlement
Australia becomes more city settled every
year, and holds a record in that way.
Manufacturing already yields more than
agriculture, cow-farming, hen-farming and
bee-farming combined, and it grows with-
out being manured with loans. Notwith-
standing all that has been done there is
still very great room for expansion, and
the market for our local manufactured pro-
ducts is right here. The market which a
greatly enlarged manufacturing population
would create for agricultural products is
here also.
THE CRUSADE AGAINST DEMO-
CRACY.
Sydney Labor officials announced at an
early stage of the waterfront strike that if
any Government threw itself into the
struggle to the extent of protecting men
willing to work for the rates fixed by
Beeby, J. —in other words, if the strikers
were not allowed to hold up the sea-trans-
port on which this island depends for its
commercial existence—“all the unions would
join the watersiders in a straight-out fight
against the Arbitration Act.” The outside
world would be surprised to see Australian
Labor striking against this Act, which first
figured in Labor platforms, and against the
decision of a Judge who was a Labor M.L.A.
for years, were it not that equally insane
situations have been arising all over Europe
since the war.
* * * *
President Wilson defined democracy 10
years ago as “the reign of law based on the
consent of the governed,” and that is about
the view of the average citizen with a sense
of justice and a desire for peace. Unfortu-
nately for him, for peace and for justice,
the world is full of fluent officials who have
no use for the reign of law. Familiarity
with democracy has filled them with con-
tempt for it. Their bright idea, whether
they are Englishmen or Frenchmen, Aus-
tralians or Italians, is to gain wealth and
leisure for the members of a class on lines
which are thoroughly undemocratic—that is,
by disregarding the nation’s laws and the
desires of the majority. Sooner or later,
in every case, the response of the majority
has been to take steps which have had the
effect of bringing the democratic principle
into contempt, and of making the economic
position of the workers worse than it was
before. This is what happened in England
a couple of years ago, when the general
strike collapsed before the Government’s
demonstration of strength. Australia is still
getting immigrants who would be in fairly
well-paid billets at home now, if their
political leaders had not set out to make
them happy by means of a big, law-defying
strike.
* * * *
In Italy Labor officials set out on similar
truculent lines to defy the reign of law
in the name of democracy. The nation
objected, and now Italian freedom, if not
dead, is in a state of suspended animation.
The poor are toiling long hours for little
pay, and they do not even enjoy the demo-
cratic privilege of being allowed to complain.
They have lost, in addition to freedom of
speech, their misguided leaders, who are
for the most part either in exile or, if at
home/ in gaol. The Labor officials of France,
which has always had a far solider Com-
munist party than Italy or Britain, much less
Australia (there is a “red belt” 360,000
strong round Paris alone), have made
several bids for trouble on the lines of
Australia’s Waterside Workers’ Federation.
They talked last April of “putting up a
straight-out fight” against the law of France
in the form of a Paris transport strike.
Prime Minister Poincare met this challenge
on May Day. The foreshadowed strike was
forbidden, and also all public demonstra-
tions in favor of it, and the military and
police were instructed to see that the Gov-
ernment’s orders were carried out. Nothing
happened except further curtailments of the
workers’ liberties, such as followed in
Britain on the general strike. Spain, Greece
and Hungary have all been afflicted since
the war with Labor officials who decided to
prove the sincerity of their democracy by
defying it. All their ventures ended in the
swift overthrow of democracy, and the
appearance of dictatorships which, whatever
else they have done, have not lightened the
lot of the workers.
* * * *
There arc certain truisms in this con-
nection with which every potential striker
ought to be acquainted, and would be if
he had followed the social history of recent
times. The chief is that if strikes are only
ambitious enough they are absolutely certain
to fail and bring disaster on those who par-
ticipate in them, and in a slightly less
degree on the nation. An adroit Labor
leader may get away with a small strike,
even in one of the numerous countries which
have come to regard the strike weapon as
something between confidence-trickery and
blackmail. But transport strikes, general
strikes, or any such campaigns against the
community as a whole, can only end in one
of two ways. Either they fail at once of
their own futility, as England’s general
strike did, or they look like succeeding for
a time and throw the nation into such a
panic that it submits eventually to a dic-
tator. No one wants a dictator, and once
in charge he is hard to dislodge, as Spain
and Italy are finding at the moment. But
he is anyhow preferable to the anarchy and
national ruin which must follow when Gov-
ernments are weak enough to let themselves
be bluffed by agitators who threaten to put
up “straight-out fights” against the laws of
the land. t
PACTS AND SUNDRIES.
The Kellogg Peace Pact has been signed
and is waiting rejection by the United
States Senate. The League of Nations
gets along without the United States, and
though its conferences are productive of
no veiy large and definite results, they
tend to acquaintanceship and friendship.
Whether the parties to the Pact will hold
conferences or not is unknown. There is
interminable discourse about disarmament,
though how to disarm such inaccessible and
irresponsible giants as Russia and China
no one has a clear idea. It has become a
dogma that big armaments lead to war,
and that Germany’s mass of land and
marine hardware was the originating and
entire cause of the row in 1914. Yet it
may be argued that while Germany had
the responsibility and perpetrated the sin,
it didn’t invent the disturbance, and that
but for a third party there might have
been none.
Some wars are started by the man who
has an army. Some are the work of a
fool who thinks he has an army. Some
are promoted by two parties who intend
to compose armies as they go along. The
Thirty Years’ War was mainly, and the
Civil War in the United States was wholly,
of this description. In 1914 imperial Rus-
sia, with a record mass of troops and a
misguided faith in them, was pathetically
anxious to keep the peace, but events were
too many for it. As for Kaiser William.
the evidence is that he wanted war and
victory and big conquests, but that he had
a dread of going to war without some
excuse which might pass muster. He had
not Bismarck’s capacity for plausible
excuse. If his Austrian ally made war on
Serbia and started a general conflagration
William was aching to answer the call to
stand by said ally; but his record suggests
that he lacked the decision to start a gen-
eral conflagration on his own account.
Francis Joseph, of Austria, held a high
place as a loser of battles and provinces.
His mode of ruling was to sit at a desk
for at least 12 hours a day, reading, anno-
tating and answering reports. Yet when
he created the absurdly needless campaign
of 1859 it became apparent that one report
was missing—the one which said that the
army’s weapons were of the Muddled Ages,
and that there weren’t enough boots to go
round. Francis Joseph gave written orders
for a new army, but when he rushed it
into the field in 1866 he found it was also
born old. Then he ordered another new
army and sat tight for 48 years. The one
success of, the reign was the annexation
of Bosnia-Herzegovina, with its largely
Serb population. Barring some insurrec-
tion and the usual floggings, it was a blood-
less triumph. But the people, who loved
their new Austrian masters about as little
as their old Turkish ones, strove and
plotted incessantly for union with their
brethren in the little adjacent Serbian king-
dom. It came to be an article of faith
with the old desk-monarch at Vienna that
the statesmanlike course was to annex the
Serbian kingdom, and unite his disaffected
subjects with their brethren that way.
Francis Joseph's ill-tempered and un-
manageable heir had become a nuisance.
When he wedded a subject the old
imperial uncle made a compromise whereby
Francis Ferdinand was to be emperor in
due time, but his wife wasn’t to be a real
empress, and his son wasn’t to succeed.
Thus Francis Joseph sowed more troubles,
as he had done all his life. The most
aggravating was a statement by the Print''
Minister of Hungary that there was no
Hungarian law against the _ king of
that country marrying a subject. The
heir and his wife were sent on a
missioij to Bosnia, with an ostenta-
tious lack of police protection, and after
the population had been angered by osten-
tatious military displays. The public show
at Serajevo was timed for the national
day of mourning, the anniversary of the
battle of Kossovo, which first put the Serbs
under their Turkish masters. It wasn't,
a day when any Serb wanted to see any
of his masters. When the double assassi-
nation was comfortably over the bodies
were taken to Vienna and put underground
with much lack of ceremony, and the im-
perial Government wept about its bereave-
ment and prepared the famous ultimatum.
The position at the crisis was something
like this: The man at Vienna believed, for
the third time in his life, that he owned
a real army when he didn’t. His anti-
quated force was licked with the customary
promptitude, and after that it only made
a pretence of lasting because Prussian mili-
tary nigger-drivers took command of it and
shoved it into battle. The man at
Berlin shared the delusion that, his ally
had a real army. They both had a vague
idea that the third member of the Triple
Alliance, Italy, would help them, or, at
least, be neutral and friendly. Possibly
Kellogg or somebody like him might have
averted the trouble if he had got to work
in good time, say, about 1900, so as r,o
anticipate events, but it is hard to say.
SOL MALAPROP.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A View of the Situation.
If the stage is set for a really big thing
in strikes it is as well to take stock of the
situation in advance; in other words, to
get a photo of the battlefield before the
dust begins to fly in earnest.
Unemployed unionists reported for the
second quarter of 1928 numbered 112 per
1000—the worst figure since 1921, when the
demobbed soldiers hadn’t finished settling
down. Returns aren’t compulsory, and more
than half the field of unionism wasn’t
covered by the reports, but whether com-
plete figures would have made a better
or worse exhibition is unknown. Strikers
and locked-out people are not included, and
they make a massive item. In 1926 N.S.W.
lost £1,229,410 of wages through strikes and
£1,230,060 in 1927. Chronic insanity on the
coalfields must have been largely respon-
sible, for the other five States lost only
£186,410 and £446,636 respectively.
The ever-obliging Courts kept giving
awards, the net result of which was always
an increase of wages whether times were
bad or worse. Five years’ proceedings are
thus officially recorded:—
Number
of Workers Average Rise of
Affected. Wages per Week.
1923 .. . . 990,852 3s. Od.
v 1924 .. . . 847,655 Is. Od.
1925 . . . . 1,262,209 Is. lid.
1926 ■ . 1,221,760 Is. 4d.
1927 . . . • 1,263,992 lOd.
In addition 135,110 persons got an average
rise of Is. per week each in the first quarter
of 1928, where the information leaves off.
This made the way of the employer in-
creasingly difficult, but, judging by past
strikes and prospective strikes and job-
controls and stopwork meetings, the position
would have been much the same if the
courts didn’t exist. The last five years have
been a busy time financially as well as in-
dustrially, the increase in the external debt
(101 millions) being only 17 millions less
than that of the previous five years when
war and repatriation were raging. This
hasn’t led to peace, prosperity and happiness
either, if the present situation means any-
thing. •
One thing certain is that industrial up-
heavals have become too close to be safe.
There is danger of a record accident through
a big fast strike overtaking a slow one which
is plodding along on the same line of rails,
and covering the landscape with mangled
debris.
The Last of the Air Pioneers.
Now that Kingsfokd Smith, Ulm, Litch-
field and McWilliam have established the
fact, which nobody doubted, that it is pos-
sible to fly an aeroplane of a suitable type
across the Tasman Sea, there remains very
little in the way of sensational pioneering
for adventurous airmen to attempt. If
Wilkins' successfully makes his Trans-
Antarctic passage every ocean in the world


ONE WAY OF CATCHING FISH.
“Although official figures for the first two months of the financial year show that the customs revenue was £509,000 below the estimate, the Treasurer (Dr. Page)
is not concerned. He believes that his estimate of a revenue of £43,300,000 from customs and excise for the year, although there was a decline of £2,105,700 last year,
will be justified.”
PAGE: “I said I’d make a good haul, and I will."
will have been traversed, and it will be
time to consider what practical use can
be made of the experiences of the brave
men who have blazed new tracks across the
skies.
It may be years before regular Pacific or
Atlantic air services are undertaken, but
Hinkler's London-to-Australia exploit and
Kingsford Smith's crossing of the Tasman
suggest possibilities of practical service that
may be realised at no very distant date.
Already an offer—not a very attractive one,
since it involves the use of foreign-built
'planes—has been made to the Common-
wealth Government for the establishment
of a regular passenger traffic between Aus-
tralia and Maoriland. Discussion of the
not more hazardous project of an aeroplane
service between Britain and Australia has
been discouraged to a great extent by the
semi-governmental scheme to use dirigible
balloons. The first leg of that service, from
London to Bazra, has been established, but
further progress seems likely to be veiy
slow, and the trustworthiness of dirigibles
is not so marked as to warrant any vast
amount of enthusiasm for them on the part
of the travelling public. Hinkler, flying
alone in a light 'plane of relatively low
power, and taking pot-luck with landing-
places, fuel supplies and repairs, covered
the distance between London and Darwin
in 14 days. The airships are scheduled to
take 10 days on the journey. An efficiently-
organised aeroplane service, with relays of
pilots and well-equipped stations, could
probably cut the time below even that rosy
estimate.
However this may be, it is clear that
sensational pioneering flights can in future
do very little to help the cause of aviation.
All, or nearly all, that can be achieved has
been achieved. It now remains to consoli-
date the positions that have been won and
turn to practical account the lessons the
pioneers have taught us.
♦
An Archdeacon Visits Hawaii.
The latest attack on the White Australia
policy comes from Archdeacon SSnot,w t , of
Adelaide. He is reported to have said
that Japanese are suitable people to popu-
late the Northern Territory, and that they
ought to be encouraged to do so. . Oddly
enough, the reverend gentleman has just
returned from a visit to Hawaii.
Uncle Sam annexed Hawaii 30 years ago.
Ever since then he has made strenuous en-
deavors, with all the wealth and scientific
methods of propaganda at his command, to
Americanise the polyglot population of the
group. He has sweated blood trying to
make English the lingua franca of the isles.
His efforts in this field have led to pidgin
English becoming the language of the
market-place, but Japanese is the language
in most of the homes. The Y.W.C.A., the
Y.M.C.A. and missionary bodies galore have
poured out their treasure trying to convert
the Chinese, Japanese, Tamil and Filipino
denizens of the tropic Eden into God-
fearing, 100 per cent. Americans, with
equally unimpressive results.
According to the 1927 report of the Hon.
Wallace Rider Farrington, 8.5., Governor
and Captain-General of Hawaii, of a total
population of 333,420 217,608 are ostensibly
American citizens. But the vast majority
of the ostensible Americans are the sons
and daughters of Oriental parents. Of the
132,242 Japanese, for instance, 79,278 rank
as American citizens, but they are all, or
nearly all, the children of the other 52,964,
who remain faithful to the religion and the
patriotic feelings they brought from Nippon.
Of the 40,000 registered voters, only 3000 are
Japanese, but in 20 years’ time the Japan-
ese, with their faith in the Mikado still
intact, will be in an overwhelming majo-
rity, for their birth-rate is to that of the
other racial groups as two to one.
Archdeacon Snow must have gone about
Hawaii with his eyes shut.
—♦
How About Australian Films?
It has been announced that “over £400,000
is involved in motion-picture contracts for
1929 signed by Hoyts’ Theatres, Ltd.,” and
that a quarter of the sum is to be paid to
British producers. It is barely two years
since the British started to go into the
cinema business in earnest; that is, as a
nation. At the time British pictures were
jeered at all over the world, and they
deserved it. Leaders of commerce and in-
dustry realised that pictures with a world-
appeal are at least as essential to trade
as an efficient consular service. One suc-
cessful picture might bring more moneyed
foreigners to the U.K. and sell more British
goods abroad than several tours such as that
of the Special Service Squadron, whose main
object was to advertise British motor-cars.
The movement to put British pictures on
the map was organised from top to bottom.
Amidst the derision of Americans, and of
Britons who were unable to imagine a
worth-while picture being made outside
Hollywood, the City began pouring money
into the business. The Prince of Wales
became a barracker for British pictures, and
Society followed. Inside a year, at Elstree,
Shepherd’s Bush, Welwyn and other places,
studios had come into existence which were
more elaborate and up-to-date than any in
America. To-day, the first-class British
picture has arrived.
It is time for Australia to begin thinking
of following Britain’s example. In respect
of climate, scenery, history and interesting
types, this country is splendidly endowed
for picture-production, and good Australian
films would assuredly find a market abroad
as well as at home —there have been in-
quiries for them lately from Europe.
Every front-rank Continental nation has
come to appreciate the commercial import-
ance of the once-despised pictures, and while
Governments are passing quota laws, capi-
talists of the patriotic and far-sighted type
have begun investing in what is more than
a profit-making concern. It is a sign of the
times which Australia as a progressive
country w r ith plenty to advertise cannot
afford to ignore.
Unfortunately, Australia is lagging be-
hind, and the Bruce-Page Government
is chiefly to blame. People like Hoyts,
who have plenty of money and are
associated with the great theatrical
firm of J. C. Williamson, Ltd., ought to
be encouraged to make pictures, but a cus-
toms duty of Ifd. per foot on the Hollywood
article is no encouragement. Twopence per
foot was recommended by the Film Com-
mission and accepted by H. E. Pratten, as
Minister of Customs; and that was little
enough. But since Pratten died the Gov-
ernment has taken off the farthing to oblige
the_ importing interest.
-♦
To Revive the C.M.F.
Dear Bulletin, — May I, as president of
the Hay (N.S.W.) sub-branch of the
R.5.5.1.L.A., offer a few comments on your
articles (22/8/’2B and 29/8/’2B) dealing with
a resolution of the State Congress approv-
ing in principle the interchange of British
and Australian regiments? That the idea
is novel I will admit, but the closer it is
examined the more satisfied I am that the
principle is sound. This sub-branch felt
that it should be laid before Congress as
a basis for debate, and not as a finished
and concrete scheme. In effect, it was
launched with a view of improving the poor
state of our Citizen Forces. General Chauvel,
in his latest report to Parliament, stressed
the increasing difficulty of providing skilled
leaders for the army.
Perhaps it may be admitted that in this
material age the hope of some reward gov-
erns the measure of endeavor that an indi-
vidual exhibits in his work. If the pros-
pect of one year's training in London, or
for that matter in any of the British
Dominions, were held out as an inducement
to efficient training, the whole of the forces
would have a powerful incentive to do their
best, competent ex-A.I.F. officers would be
drawn in again, and the Commonwealth
would soon have an efficient and enthusi-
astic army.
An interchange of units would enable the
peoples of our sister Dominions and of the
Old Country to know and appreciate ours.
Units sent from these shores, it is
proposed, would undergo technical train-
ing, and so we should be building
up a corps of specialists competent to un-
dertake the training of future units and
quotas at home. For years past excellent
feeling has been fostered by the inter-
change of school-teachers, units of the navy
and journalists, and by the visits of the
Y.A.L. boys, and I see no reason why the
principle should not be extended to the
army.
Finally, this sub-branch feels that it has
done its duty if it has directed the atten-
tion of Australians to the state of our de-
fences.—Yours, etc., C. P. Game.
*
Importing Hideousness.
Dear Bulletin, —I am old enough to re-
member the Victorian furniture of my
childhood’s home; the “greenery-yallery”
school which arrived as a protest against
Victorianism; the drab “craft” stuff which
was one of the reactions against “greenery-
yalleryism,” the slithery nouveau art craze
(an exceptionally insincere and expensive
innovation), and several more. Australia
seems to be assimilating another of these
wearisome movements, and one, incident-
ally, which is just entering on its death
agony on the other side of the world. The
keynote of a decorative symphony which
may be heard blaring in thousands of Aus-
tralian homes at the moment is struck at
the N.S.W. Society of Artists’ show
in many of the landscapes, in wood-
cuts, and in such still-lifes as “Painting of
Flowers Under Gas-light.”
The wheel has turned full circle, as usual,
and now the aim of every cultured subur-
banite is to be more early-Victorian than
Queen Victoria. I spent the evening recently
with a friend whose wife has been bitten
by the asp of “modernism,” and the Vic-
torianism of the atmosphere was stifling.
Nothing was lacking but the sense of com-
fort which the Victorians achieved by fur-
nishing to defeat the world’s most uncom-
fortable climate. There were framed samp-
lers on the walls, baskets of violently-colored
fruit on the tables, antimacassars on the
chair backs, glass chandeliers hanging from
the ceilings, and ponderous furniture on the
floors. The cult of the beautiful is trying
enough in the domestic sphere when it takes .
the form of an honest attempt at beauty,
but when the host proclaims with idiotic
complacency that true beauty resides in
violent primary colors, wool-work, china
dogs and paintings which are as primitive
as the work of children, then boredom on
the part of the guest changes to annoyance.
The national tragedy of these ever-chang-
ing movements in interior decoration is
that they prevent the appearance of indi-
genous art-schools. Take furniture. At
different times England, France, Spain, even
Germany have produced great furniture-
designers whose works still live. Their pro-
ducts never went out of fashion and on to
the rubbish-tip, as has happened with the
masterpieces of the “greenery-yallery,”
nouveau art, and other schools, and as will
happen with the furniture which is “modem”
to-day. Sheraton tables and Adah chairs
were as much in demand when their authors
were alive as they were 50 and 100 years
later, and as they are now. Like the un-
dying period pieces of France, they ex-
pressed the genius of their country. Aus-
tralia has not expressed itself at all in fur-
niture up to the present. It has been satis-
fied to be a docile imitator. Yet it must
have plenty to say on the subject, its prob-
lems of temperature, light and household
comfort generally being all its own; and it
has some of the loveliest native woods and
other materials in the world on which to
experiment.
My theory is_ that we are suffering from
an artistic inferiority complex, and that, as
a result, thousands of affluent Australians
are living in imported ugliness and dis-
comfort, and trying to persuade themselves
and their friends that they like it.—Yours,
etc., Whitehall.
+ —
A Holiday Camp for Saltbush Families.
It seems probable that, owing to bungling
somewhere, the poor mothers of the N.S.W.
backblocks may lose the use of three acres
of Sydney waterfront which was placed
at their disposal as long ago as 1913. A
scheme to provide the bush-mother with a
holiday home was put forward by Mrs.
Frances Moore and Miss Alice Currie in
that year, and was enthusiastically received
by women’s organisations. It was not strictly
a charity scheme; the idea was to secure
some land at one of the seaside resorts
and erect upon it about ten simple camp
cottages surrounding a general kitchen,
storehouse and living room. The women
who, with their children, were intended to
benefit would pay a nominal sum, and it
was suggested that the railways might pro-
vide special concession fares. Minister for
Lands Trefle immediately offered three
acres of public reserve near Manly, and
the local shire council approved the plans
submitted for the camp.
The war delayed matters; and then the
Country Women’s Assoc., taking charge,
twisted it to another shape. Instead of the
open-air camp, with its ease and freedom,
Keera House was started, and something
like £5OOO has been spent upon a place which
holds only a few people at a time, and,has
a definite atmosphere of charity. The three
acres promised by the Government is still
available, but the offer is likely to be with-
drawn unless use is shortly made of the
land.
It seems a pity that a scheme of such
obvious usefulness—there are multitudes of
women and children in the backblocks who
have never seen the sea and would greatly
benefit by a seaside holiday—should be
allowed to lapse. Similar schemes have
worked with great success in America.
♦
“Bouragi” : There is a tinge of irony in the
report that the Mau intransigents of Samoa
have asked the London Missionary Society
to remove its white representatives, bag and
baggage, from the group. The L.M.S. was
the first missionary body of British origin
m the islands. Its influence in Samoa has
been particularly strong, and not always
well directed. It still has very large in-
terests there, for it has never been averse
to turning an honest penny; and wherever
the society’s vine and fig-tree are planted
there is invariably a fat Samoan teacher or
pastor loafing underneath. Whoever may
weep its passing—should that come about--
the great majority of white officials, trad-
ers, planters and others not attached by one
tie or another to the society certainly will
not. Indeed, it is doubtful if any of the
numerous rivfel missions will grow hysteri-
cal at the prospect.


They make it their Business
The experts of the motor world Overlanders, speed kings, world flyers
■—study closely the needs of their highly efficient engines. It is significant
/'TS
o-
that in history-making events, time after time,
the choice of lubricant and fuel is —■ SHELL.
Every make of car gives its utmost service on
QTTTT'T T motor OILS
OIIDLL and spirit
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
S 604
POLITCAL
POINTS
Horror has been aroused in Nationalist
circles by the report that a Country-party
man proposes to exercise his right to stand
for the Bendigo Fed-
Hurry, M.H.R.
eral electorate, now re-
presented by Geoffry
Hurry, Nationalist.
“Bendigo,” it seems,
“belongs to the Nation-
alists under the
arrangement between
> Mr. Bruce and Dr.
Page.” This attitude
is tactically foolish as
well as excessively im-
pudent. Country-party
preferences put Hurry
in six years ago; in
1925, when no Agrar-
ian stood, the Nation-
alist majority was
dangerously small. If
the Cocky vote, or any
considerable portion of
it, is antagonised by
outrageous intolerance
the seat will be lost.
Even before the Waterside Workers’ Fed-
eration “repudiated the pernicious and
vicious Beeby award” North Queensland ports
were in the hands of the Communist ele-
ment, which had stopped the shipment of
sugar, maize and timber. And when the
strike was called off by resolution of the
W.W.F. Conference, Queensland delegates
said it was still on as far as they were con-
cerned. Some of the outstanding difficulties
of the situation are that the Commonwealth
has no military force unless 1750 men, of
whom 144 are stationed in Queensland, can
be called a force, and no police at all.
Queensland possesses one policeman to every
570 square miles.
During 1926-27 Australia sacrificed
£18,530,337 of revenue by giving preference
to British goods; in other words, that amount
would have been added to the actual collec-
tions if J. Bull had had to take pot luck with
the rest of the world and imports had been
the same. One result of this benevolence
has been a virulent campaign of bullying on
the part of many British Freetraders and
some local ones about our “prohibitive tariff.’’
If the Government made up its mind to dam
the flood of unnecessary imports, these un-
mannerly critics would find oiit what a pro-
hibitive tariff is like. But since Pratten died
the Ministry seems to have sunk into fiscal
imbecility.
The white popula-
tion of Mandated New
Guinea is to be blessed
with (1) an Execu-
tive Council, composed
of the Administrator,
eight officials and one
non-official, and (2) a
Deg. Council, consist-
ing of the Adminis-
trator, the same eight
officials and five non-
officials. There is to
be no election by vote ;
the Admini s t r a t o r,
Brig.-Gen. Wisdom,
will virtually make
every appointment,
and any appointment
or decision may bo an-
nulled by him, subi-
ject to immediate ref-
erence to the Gover-
nor-General. Natu-
rally the settlers are
not enthusiastic,
though a similar sys-
tem lias worked fairly
well in Papua.
Brig-Gen. Wisdom
A 1 Smith has been ill-advised enough to
challenge the statement of a lady opponent
that “on a recent occasion he was so drunk
that he "was unable to make a public address.”
An English Chief Justice once laid it down
that “no man’s character was materially
improved by an acquittal for murder,” and
so it is with political slanders. Whatever
chance the Democratic candidate has of
becoming President, it will be lessened .by
his enraged denials that he is a dipsomaniac,
and by the roaring protestations of the oppo-
sition that they had always understood he
was rarely sober, but are now glad to learn
from him that the wide-flung rumor never
had any foundation.
The Hamilton (N.S.W.) by-election illus-
trated the absurdity of the optional form
of preferential voting; less than half the
votes polled (5968 out of 12,183) sufficed
to put Smith, the Labor candidate, in. Of
the primary votes 5851 went to Smith, 4841
to Skelton (“Protestant Labor”). 1468 to
Cornish (Nat.) and 23 to Icetou (Ind.) ; of
Cornish’s preferences Skelton got 827 and
Smith 112. 559 votes being exhausted. Had
the Leg. Council insisted on the obligatory
form of preferentialism when amending
Slang’s Electoral Act Skelton would have
wou.
One of the many mysteries wrapped up in
the Federal plan of “national” insurance
is the question of its genesis. Nobody has
asked for it, and the friendly societies
are openly hostile. Earle Page says the bill
is based on Lloyd George’s measure, which
is no recommendation. Out of the British
industrial insurance scheme came the dole
to the unemployed. In Maoriland, where
they have been running a voluntary insurance
scheme of the kind for 17 years—there is a
25 per cent. Government subsidy, but no levy
on employers—only 30,000 out of about
600,000 wage-earners are contributors.
If the Address-in-Reply formality must be
maintained, why can’t the precious document
be forwarded and acknowledged by post? In
recent years it has been the custom in Vic.
to strip the ceremony of presenting the
address of all ceremonial etceteras, and last
week Labor Ministers gave the show the
go-by, their example being followed by the
vast majority of private members, including
knights and squires. President Clarke of
the Upper House had with him Cohen,
Edgar, Saltan, Tucker, W. R. L. Clarke and
Zwar. Speaker Peacock could only muster
Laborites Cook and McAdam, who had
moved and seconded the thing in their
House.
In addition to cattle stations, trawlers
and treatment works, the Queensland Labor
Government tried to run a Gem Pool. The
man who conducted the post-mortem reports
that miners sold their best gems to illicit
buyers and kept rubbish for the Government;
that the State grader and selling agent
knew nothing about grading, and the grader
was in the pay of a private firm; that, ex-
eluding expenses, £85,853 had been paid for
gems, and sales amounted to £37,472, stocks
in hand being estimated to be worth £36,580.
It is a drearily familiar story.
Ex-Premier Lyons may be among the Tas.
candidates for the Senate on November 17,
though he may have a shot for the Denison
seat instead. Ex-Minister Guy is also con-
sidering pulling out of State politics to run
for his native Bass against David Jackson.
If they really nominate, the Tas. Opposition
will be without a leader and deputy-
leader ; in that case Becker, Ogilvie,
Watkins and Kelly will be candidates for the
vacancies. Lyons’s Wilmot seat will prob-
ably go to A.W.U. organiser Osborne, and
Guy’s (he sits for Bass) to Major Davies,
who at last State election missed capturing
a fourth Labor seat in Bass by a matter of
inches.
South Aus. Railway Commissioner Webb,
giving evidence before the Committee on State
Disabilities, said that he couldn’t foresee
the time when the lines would pay their
way, and it would be a far-seeing man who
could. The State, he said, has too much rail-
way, and it certainly has more than the
average for its population. Then its system
is half 5-Jft. and half 3-£ft. gauge. When sur-
pluses existed, and there were once 13 of
them in succession, they were used as revenue
instead of enough debt being paid off to cover
depreciation, in which respect all the six
profligates have been in the same boat.
Treasurer Page makes it clear that he is
open to receive congratulations on the re-
markable work he has done in catching up
arrears in the postal, telegraph and telephone
services. As his Government put £15,723,000
of loan money into construction work of
this sort in the four years to June, 1927,
and a good deal since, there should be some-
thing to show. Certainly the financial re-
sults were Bruce-Pagian to the last degree.
In 1922 the whole department showed a
profit, after paying interest, of £1,541,081.
In 1926 it showed a loss, after paying inter-
est, of £285,337. Interest increased by
£550,000 in the interval.
Reform of the liquor trade is on the
N.S.W. Bavinshaw Government’s list, but,
like reform of the Leg. Council, it is not to
bo tackled till 1929. Meanwhile the Govern-
ment would like to be furnished with ideas,
and supporters have brightly suggested that
it should register barmaids with a view to
their abolition. Before it decides on this
course it might study the Victorian position.
In 1915 when an Act was passed forbidding
the registration of any more Hebes inj
Hogan’s State there were about 4000 on the
roll. To-day the number is the same, and
the ladies look as young as ever. It is
obvious that they have the secret of perpetual
youth.
One of the early measures of the Queens-
land Labor Government was a Farm Pro-
duce Agents Act. Now, after many years,
Forgan Smith.
a n amending Act
tightening the restric-
tions on the brother-
hood of agents has
been passed at the in-
stance of the Minister
of Agriculture, Forgan
Smith. Thirteen mem-
bers of the Opposition
spoke against the bill
on the second reading,
one declaring hotly
that an army of in-
spectors would be
needed to enforce it,
which is probably true.
But it is suspected
that the main idea in
introducing the thing
was to draw these ora-
tors out, and so sug-
gest to country elec-
tors that the Opposi-
tion thinks more of
produce-agents than of
producers, and has
done so all along.
The demand of Sydney harbor-bridge
workers for a 22-hour week recalls an incident
connected with the attempt to put an Eight
Hours Bill through Maoriland Parliament.
On the second-reading division, to the aston-
ishment of the rest of the Seddon cohorts, an
enormously stout Maori member walked into
the Noes lobby with the Opposition. “Wliat's
your objection to the bill?” snapped a Whip
afterwards. “Eight too many,” murmured
Henare drowsily. And he held up four
fingers.
A Federal Budget item which is both shabby
and stupid is the proposal not only to increase
patent fees all round but to raise the charge
for provisional protection from 20s. to 40s.
For a poor man it is a discouraging move.
He may buy several provisional patents for
machines before he strikes the right thing
(if he does strike it), in addition to spend-
ing money on materials and agents. The
foreign machinery man won’t pay anything,
for he brings his “notion” here in a fi n * sll «!
form and needs no provisional protection, *-
what is proposed is merely a device tor pu -
ting another little obstacle in the way o
Australian ingenuity and industry. It would
be more patriotic to reduce the charge to o .
“Paddy Lynch, yer tie’s crooked !” shouted
an interjector at a wild Westralian meeting.
“Then it’s the only thing about Paddy Lyncn
Senator Lynch.
that is crooked I the
orator replied ; and he
was tumultuously
cheered. Senator
Lynch was one of the
very few Labor con-
scriptionists whose
personal example in-
fluenced votes and
whom the A.L.P. was
sorry to lose. He lias
an odd habit of mix
ing his metaphors, but
is capable of real
flights of eloquence;
and he has been very
useful to the Nation-
alists on the platform.
Yet the Nationalists
always ignore him
when they have a post
to fill, though Lynch
had some Ministerial
experience in West-
ralia.
Sitting amid the ruins of.his policy, like
Marius amid the tatters of Carthage, and
contemplating the results of 13 years or
Thoodorism. Queensland Premier McCor-
mack asked plaintively what he could do.
He answered his own question: Tsotlnng.
“The Government,” he said, “can’t make
men load ships if they won’t.” Still, with
an adequate police force and possibly a
State militia, it might be possible to prevent
men stopping other men from loading the
ships if other men want to.
South Aus. and other States having found
that they can import coal a lot cheaper than
they can get it from N. S. Wales, Premier
Bavin proposes to “stabilise the N.S.W. coal
industry,” though his proposals refer to the
northern fields only. His idea is that tax-
payers should bear the cost of remitting 2s.
a ton on all northern coal mined, while the
colliery owners and the miners are invited
to forego a shilling a ton each, and in
respect of coal sold to other States or ex-
ported Federal taxpayers arc to be drawn
upon for another shilling a ton. By these
means it is proposed to reduce the price of
coal in the State by 4s. a ton, and elsewhere
by ss. There are two parties whose consent
has still to be obtained to the arrangement—
the mineowners and the miners, and furious
objections are coming from the miners
already.
The urbane Prime Minister’s familiar re-
quest for the co-operation of the State Gov-
ernments in dealing with the latest of many
waterfront upheavals was received with
the usual frigidity by Labor Premiers.
Theoretically the Federal authority has no
right to interfere, because the Constitution
says in clause 119. —
The Commonwealth shall protect every State
against invasion and, on the application of the
Executive Government of the State, against domes-
tic violence.
That is held to mean that it can’t protect
its own people, not even S. M. Bruce, except
in the territories which are under its direct
control, unless the minor State Cabinet in-
vites it to do so. But the Constitution is a
many-sided pamphlet, and it says in clause
51 that the Federal authority shall have
“control of the forces to execute and. main-
tain the laws of the Commonwealth.” And
that may be taken to mean that if anybody is
breaking a Federal law the Commonwealth’s
forces, police or military or naval, may get
busy without asking any local potentate’s
permission.
A revival of the sporadic demand for
Home Rule for Scotland is announced, and
it is said that it will be really vigorous this
time. One object is to get power to restrict
the influx from the Irish Free State, on
which subject a fuss of. growing intensity
has prevailed for some time.
Forde, M.H.R., who represents a good deal
of cotton country in Queensland, tried to
rouse the Prime Minister to protect the
cotton-yarn industry a little, and might
as well have tried to excite Cook’s statue.
He mentioned that imported cotton yarn cost
£600,000 or £700,000 a year; that it is almost
impossible to compete against it; that out of
the 4600 bales of Australian cotton bought
by local manufacturers last year 3400 bales
hadn’t been used because importation killed
the demand, and that this country is actu-
ally trying, in a microscopic way, to export
raw cotton in competition with the nigger
article. Whereupon Bruce said that the
Tariff Circumlocution Board, which takes
evidence at vast length and saves the
Minister responsibility, would deal with the
matter in its turn and might get there next
April. That notice will give the importer
plenty of time to load up.
ASSISTING THE COMMISSION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. , K.C., appeared to assist the Commission.”
I envy not my friend whose life is legal
rough-and-tumble,
Who lives on acrimonious strife in high-
toned life or humble.
The commonplace, pex-plexing fight of plain-
tiff and defendant,
The sordid squabble, dragged to light, of
parent and descendant,
The pleas for criminals and such-like men of
low condition
Have, none of them, this finer touch:
“Assisting the Commission.”
The job goes on by days and weeks in inter-
esting fashion,
Relieved by frequent comic streaks or loud
outbursts of passion,
With, interlarded now and then, sensational
disclosure,
Or (“fat.” for evening-paper men!) “Confes-
sion and Exposure.”
One reads it in the boldest type and forms
a grand ambition
To find himself, when time is ripe, assisting
a Commission.
Observe how calmly dignified lie treats the
whole proceeding;
His part must call for tactful pride, inborn
restraint and breeding.
He watches 'with superior mien the varied
tricks and dodges,
Then drops insinuation in, observing how it
lodges.
That modern public demirep, the venial
politician,
He also warns to mind his step, “assisting
the Commission!”
lie never has occasion to exert the gentlest
pressure
Concerning fees that may be due for each
new day’s refresher,
Nor to retire —or use the threat —unless they
are forthcoming
And leave his junior in a sweat, a client
hotly humming
And a case that seems a Gordian knot —
and nightmare in addition.
In pleasant ways is cast his lot—“assisting
the Commission.
And’ this is why, when fees are shy, I pray
some kindly donor
Of gracious gifts when passing by my rooms
will greet the owner
With compliments of Mister Bruce, or
maybe Mister Bavin,
And then most affably produce the thing
that I’ve been cravin’
(’Twill gratify and comfort me like iced
drinks in Perdition).
The “Brief to Mb. William Costs —
Assisting the Commission.”
S.A.
BILL O’COSTS.


SOCIETY
"and it's
prited with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Doubleyouay”: A couple of Chinese had
a clearing job at so much per acre down in
the sou’-west of Groperland. Came a day
when a deputation of one waited on the
boss. “What’s up?” he was asked. “Job no
good. Finish now.” “What for? Work
too hard?” Wun Lung shook his head.
“Money too little?” “No—money all li.”
The boss tried, several other tacks, all to no
avail. “What in Hell’s wrong, then?” ho
bellowed at length. Wun remained silent for
a space and then, very solemnly, laid bare
the secret. “Acre too big,” he explained.
if if if if
“Adelaide”: Far-back South Aus. is find-
ing the natives more troublesome than usual.
The country west from Alice Springs has
A-NICE SORT OF A WIFE!
RACHEL: “That’s a vonderful portrait of Mrs. Levitski, the jeweller’s vife — aind’t she
beautiful, Ikey?”
IKEY: “Mein Gott, Rachel! It aind’t no advertisement for Levitski’s business—
she aind’t have no jewell’ry on at all!”
seen the murder of a white man, Brookes,
apparently just for the sake of the flour
and other supplies he had. Since then
there has been further killing of cattle, and
from two stations has come a call for police
aid. Dr. Basedow, the S.A. authority on
native ways, seems to think the position
pretty hopeless. The natives see their game
killed, and think themselves absolutely en-
titled to kill cattle. Then some of their
number are shot, and tribal law requires them
to take vengeance; and so the sorry game
goes on.
“Gouger”: During the desert campaign
there were far more curses wasted over
watering horses than in the actual fighting.
The oasis wells, used by the Bedouins from
time immemorial, were farcical to a brigade
of thirst-maddened horses ; and even at per-
manent camps, where wells had been dug,
hand-pumps erected and long canvas troughs
installed, one might see struggling fnen being
dragged over the sands by animals frantic
to get at the troughs out of their turn. Often
the operation took hours, and when he got
a chance the unspeakable Turk would make
it worse by sniping. Even when he had
been driven well back by the patrols, you
could never feel sure that Abdul wouldn’t
get hi s guns to work from miles away and
lather the clustered horses with shraonel.
I have seen men sitting by their dying horses
and crying; there were few tilings more
poignant than seeing the poor brute that
had carried you far and faithfully struck
down by an unseen enemy when waiting its
turn for water.
n-- * * *
“Clarence Cafeteria”: An interesting dis-
play of adult infantilism in Melbourne has
been afforded by a pole-sitting contest at
a transpontine dance palay, which gained
melancholy notoriety a year or so ago by
staging the first dance Marathon. Twelve
competitors climbed to the tops of 12 40-
foot poles at nine o’clock on Wednesday night
and one of them was still there at midnight
on Saturday. They were accommodated
with little circular seats, about 10 inches
in diameter. Deep distress scored the fea-
tures of most of the contestants after the
first few hours, and the next day all
were in a pitiable condition. By the second
day they were becoming overcome, one by
one, with sleep, and dropping oil: into the
nets spread underneath them like rotten
fruit. The winner didn’t even have the satis-
faction of notching a record. A pole-sitter
in America stayed aloft for 14 days. But
St. Simeon Stylites, the first of the pillar
saints, stuck to his perch for 37 years.
* * * *
“Morita”: The notorious Rue de Galliene
(B. 29/8/’2B) in Havre was guaranteed to
hold more military police to the square yard
than any other street on the Western Front.
At one time I saw Australian, English, Can-
adian, American and French military police
on duty, mute testimony to the thorough-
fare’s reputation. There were also French
gendarmes thrown in to keep the peace
amongst civilians. But close to the Rue de
Galliene, in a small estaminet facing the
harbor, was a good friend to the Digger
in an elderly dame who claimed to have
reared a family in Melbourne. When hubby
settled down to do liis bit on transport work
between England and France, Madame fol-
lowed him, eventually opening her tiny pub,
one of the very few in Havre run on re-
spectable lines. Many a Digger dodged the
“Jacks” hidden in Madame’s estaminet, and
many others were sobered up under her
motherly eye and saved from becoming a
prey to the light-fingered females of the
locality. Australians were always sure of
a welcome, provided they came unaccom-
panied by feminine companions.
* * * *
“Shed Hand” : Rarely is a true explanation
of a train’s delay handed in to the “heads”
by the guard. Once when firing in
Bananaland we couldn’t pass a station
with a rake of goods because the stick was
against us, the s.m. refusing to let it down
while a ringtail ’possum sat on the arm.
Of course a sudden drop would have sent
the little beastic earthwards, but the s.m.
wanted the skin, so he held up the train until
lie d borrowed a gun and shot the intruder.
Then the lot of us concocted a yarn about
Brown’s cow being on the rails, and the
department wrote Brown a stiff letter, which
the cow-farmer showed to me and asked for
advice. I drafted an apology calculated to
appease the wrath of any Commissioner and
Brown rewarded me with a sugar-bag of
oranges and the sole company of his pretty
daughter while he laborously copied out my
composition.
if if $ *
“X.N.0.” : The British Navy doesn’t “issue
rum daily to every member of the crew” (B.
12/9/’2B). It doesn’t issue it to anyone
who is under 21 or who prefers the farth-
ing-a-day allowance instead.
* * “ #
“D.”: “I’m not a
bird to be in two
places at once” is the
classic bull, but Judge
Sheridan ran Sir
Boyle Roche’s effort
close at Parramatta
(N.S.W.) the other
day with, “I have
found it the usual rule
that when a witness
does not answer ques-
tions he is not telling
the truth.” This ful-
fils all the require-
ments of the perfect
bull —it expresses an
obvious truth, it is
preposterous, and its
author bears an Irish
name.
TAKING TOTTIE DOWN A PEG.
LOTTIE: “How’s your boy doing these day s?”
TOTTIE: “Oh, he’s doing things on a big scale.”
LOTTIE: “M’m. Workin’ on a weighbridge?”
“X.N.0.”: “Winer’s” defence of the
appellation “Pommy” (B. 5/9/’2B) on the
grounds that it is paralleled by “rookie,”
“fresher” and the naval “snotty” won’t
hold water, because none of these three
slang nouns imports any racial difference
between one person and another, but only
a difference in rank or seniority. Whatever
its origin “Pommy” belongs now to the
same class as “dago” and “nigger,” and
should be dropped. A rookie, a fresher and a
snotty can all grow out of the embryo stage
that these names imply, but in the minds of
some peoide no Englishman can ever live
down the handicap of being born in England.
“Bert the Carpenter”: All the commenta-
tors on the term “Pommy” write as if it
were a purely Australian nickname for the
British immigrant, whereas it has a much
wider vogue. I worked for years in the
U.S.A., and found that, while the Irish were
always “Paddies” and the Scotch “Scotties,”
the Englishman, especially if his speech pro-
claimed the fact, became a Pommy. Inci-
dentally, the Englishman’s favorite head-
gear, the cap, was always called a “Pommy
Stetson.” And none of the Englishmen I
met in my travels in America objected to
“Pommy,” any more than the American
himself objects to being called a Yankee.
* * * *
“Shep”: The ladies’ handbag habit (B.
5/9/’2B) at least came in handy at the
Eucharistic procession. Flappers in the
crowd were bemoaning that they couldn’t
see a thing when a resourceful Digger sug-
gested that his girl should “periscope it.”
Turning her back to the procession, and
holding an open handbag on high, she took
his advice, and very soon the rearguard of
the crowd was represented by girls of all
sixes gazing into mirrors, fastened or de-
tachable, and all observing as conscientiously
as troops on front-line duty.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The wild and little-known
country that can be found within a few miles
of Adelaide G.P.O. has been the scene of a
bad air crash. Capt. Charles Scott, with
George Nutson as mechanic, had flown Air-
Marshal Salmond over some 4000 miles, left
him in Adelaide, and started back for Queens-
land at daybreak. There was a dense fog
over the hills, and the ’plane, touching a
fence, crashed into a rock and burst into
flames. Scott, who had a broken jaw and
other head injuries, did what he could for
Nutson, who was horribly burned, and then
found a farmer’s house, a mile away. Both
men were rushed to the city, 14 miles away,
but there was no hope for Nutson, a
Queenslander, only 20 but an expert Qantas
airman. Scott, who is in hospital seriously
damaged, was in the Royal Air Force in
England and came to Australia early in
1927, since when he has flown successfully
perhaps 80,000 miles. He had never before
been over the Mount Lofty ranges.
=!: * * *
“Oxmead”: Conan Doyle published “The
Case of Oscar Slater” as long ago as 1914,
and the fact that the Oscar aforesaid is to
receive a few thousands of compensation
for years of unmerited penal servitude shows
that the case, as presented when the memory
of the crime was still fresh, was a remark-
ably sound one. It will be many a year,
doubtless, before juries in murder cases are
allowed to forget Oscar. Slater when the
danger of convicting men as long as there is
the faintest doubt of their guilt is being im-
pressed on the panel by persuasive counsel.
And yet the fact remains that Slater was
rehabilitated and recompensed, as far as
authority could do it, because of a Judge’s
blunder, not a jury’s. The Court of Appeal
upset the conviction mostly if not mainly
on the ground that the Judge (long dead)
had misdirected the jury by allowing them
to be influenced by certain reflections on
Slater’s character which had no direct bear-
ing (in law) on the crime for which lie
was being tried. On that account the Court
found that he didn't get a fair, unprejudiced
trial —there was no necessity to go beyond
that, although more than one commenting
newspaper expressed a regret that the Judges
only reviewed the conviction in its technical
aspect.
* * * #
“Marko”: Isn’t breach of promise an
anachronism now that woman has invaded
almost every branch of activity formerly re-
served for the other sex? Every woman in
business may be presumed to know that a
contract the performance of which will
extend for more than 12 months is not bind-
ing unless put in writing and signed. Also
that in all negotiations leading up to the
signature of such a contract nothing is
definite until all terms and details have been
arranged and are signed. It is open to either
party to break off such negotiations, and I’m
blessed if I see why marriage should be
differently regarded.
* * * *
“Mells”: A man is regarded as entitled
to carry his money adjacent to any section of
his frame he may choose for the purpose, and
so is a pocketless woman. Yet I remember
once hearing a bitter complaint made in Par-
liament by a bank director as to the choice of
certain men, or rather of a whole class of
men, in this regard. It was in the early
days of the W.A. goldfields, when minted gold
was as scarce as the raw metal was plentiful,
and banknotes were the only larger currency
out back. The financier declared that the
paper of the particular institution in which
he was interested didn’t last half as long as
it should normally owing to the thoughtless-
ness of prospectors who insisted on tramping
over vast areas of country with their
“wads” in their boots. He also referred to
the hardships sustained by bank clerks who
were forced to handle so many of these ex-
hibits before they were condemned to the
incinerator. Socks were Scarce articleiS
among the goldfields pioneers.
if s» * #
“Carisbrook, _ Jun.”: During a halt in the
vast Eucharistic procession through Sydney
an Irish voice suddenly roared through
the hundreds of loud-speakers along the
route: “Now thin! What’s th’ matter wid
yer? Git a move on.” And the constable
shooed three youngsters away from the micro-
phone which relayed the band music to the
assembled multitude, serenely unconscious
that his peremptory mandate had been broad-
cast to every person along the route.
#
“Morimoto”: One of the goriest duels in
Melbourne annals occurred on board a
Japanese steamer in port the other night.
One seaman had insulted another, probably
by making some slighting reference to his
mother-in-law, and the affront, it was de-
cided, could only be wiped out in blood.
The weapons selected were ordinary but-
chers’ choppers, and the duellists went for
one another in the fo’c’s’le. One had an
arm nearly separated from the body, and
was taken to the Melbourne Hospital. The
police made inquiries, but wild aeroplanes
wouldn’t drag the name of the other man
from the crowd of silent Orientals.
HERE’S HOWE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Lord Howe Island (pop. Ill) turned down Pro-
hibition by 38 votes to 24.”
They go their ways, with solitude for balm,
In the Arcadian little islet that’s
For ever wrapped in Rechabitish calm,
Five hundred miles from pubs and brewery
vats;
They live their lives and tend the Kentia
palm
And wage incessant warfare upon rats.
Abstainers all they needs must be —and yet
They weighed the pros and cons and voted
Wet.
They may not blow the collar from a pot
Or amble to a bar to sink a gill;
They never lurch to bed a trifle shot,
Or waken contrite in the morning chill;
They’ve never seen a bar-room, and there’s
not
The faintest likelihood they ever will
On that far speck in seas of sapphire set —
Withal determinedly they voted Wet.
They never touch it, never know the bliss
Or woe that in the flowing bowl may hide.
And some assert that nobody can miss
Any amenity he’s never tried—•
A fairly solid aphorism this,
Not to be lightly questioned or denied.
Nathless, though Dry themselves, they
wouldn’t let
Their parent State be anything but Wet.
They never get a snifter, or a sniff
Of hops or malt, of juniper or rye,
Yet their decision might have made the diff.
Had scales been evener ’tween Wet and
Dry.
And wouldn’t it have knocked the Hammonds
stiff
And set them groping for the how and why,
1.c., how Howe, the place with nought to get
Thereby, had come to cast its vote for Wet.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“E.V.S.”. The parson’s narrative quoted
by “Jokesmith” (B. 29/8/’2B) is evidently
a fantastic version of the massacre by
blacks of the Frazer family at Hornet Bank
station, Taroom (Q.), and sequel. In
those days the Dawson tribes were aggres-
sive and much given to cattle-spearing. A
party raided the homestead, killing Mrs.
Frazer, four daughters, three sons, two shep-
herds and a tutor. A lad of 12 years escaped
by hiding. He lived thereafter for one pur-
pose, vengeance. It is preposterous, of course,
to suggest that he had any permit to kill,
but officialdom shut its eyes and ears to
things that were charged against him. The
police doubtless shot some of the original
murderers, but they were far too mobile a
force to be fallen upon and massacred in bulk.
=j: * * *
“C.Q.”: One of the most gracious eccle-
siastical buildings in the classic style that
Melbourne can boast has fallen into the
hands of the wrecker. It is the Collins-
street Baptist Church, on whose Doric
columns the plane-trees cast intriguing
shadows. As far as I know no artist has
troubled to paint it, though they will tramp
miles to record insanitary country cottages.
The ancient landmark was built in 1852. It
is to be replaced by a nine-storey pile of
offices, both church and ordinary.
* *:* * *
“Shep”: On our way to Charleroi after
the Armistice we were billeted in a village
where the railway station had ceased to
function since the German retreat. Unable
to remove a train-load of their ammunition,
German artillery got their last war practice
firing at it from a hill a couple of miles
off, and there were plenty of direct hits.
But three trucks piled high with bombs,
flares and light shells had been separated
HE KNEW THE LADY.
THE OLDEST BOARDER: “I’m sure the climate here will agree with your wife.”
THE NEWEST COMER: “I’d like to see anything dare to do anything else, old man.”
from the rest of the train to allow, a
level-crossing to be used by the retreating
army, and alongside one of these a knot of
Diggers argued whether a heap of greyish
stuff on the ground was an explosive. To
settle the point a lighted stick was finally
thrown into it. The test was entirely
conclusive, but as the thick smoke cleared
away it was seen that some cases on the
truck were well alight. We were all under
cover when the first load went up with a
roar that rattled the village half a mile
off. The second explosion came about 10
minutes later, and the third saw the Bel-
gians down in their cellars never doubting
that Fritz had changed his mind on the
subject of peace. It was an angry Tommy
A.P.M. who with his staff watched our
brigade move off next morning, quite unable
to pick op the unit to be billed up for the
breaking of numerous windows and the de-
struction of three commandeered German
railway trucks.
* * * *
“Registraris”: “Te ICoiti” (B. 29/8/’2B)
is wide of the mark when he suggests that
India and China have yet to contribute to
the Anglican episcopal bench. Vedanaya-
kam Samuel Azariah, LL.D., Bishop of Dor-
nakal (India), was one of the most popular
visitors at the last Lambeth Conference, and
has visited Australia in the interests of the
Church Missionary Society. The Assistant
Bishop of Chekiang (Mid-China) is Tsae-
Seng Sing, D.D., and the Assistant Bishop
of Fuh-Kien is Ding Ing-ong. Japan, too,
has two native bishops.
* * * *
“Mudros”: The scene of Governor Hore-
Ruthven’s story of the Digger and his missing
shovel was Gallipoli, not France (B.
22/8/’2B). Birdie's dug-out at Anzac was
near the beach, which swarmed with. A.S.C.
wallahs, muleteers and carrying parties, and
his Ex., a staff officer at I Idles, was there
to attend a pow-wow called by General lan
Hamilton. Birdie's *‘dug out” in France was
a beautiful chateau, surrounded by green
lawns and gardens bright with flowers; it
would have been hard to find a “typical
Digger, stripped to the in that
vicinity. _ . *
* * * *
“Archibald Aciddrop”: A dreadful item
of news conveyed by cable is that Park-lane,
London, is to be turned into a shopping
thoroughfare, the Duke of Westmin-
ster, who ought to be financially above
the reach of temptation, having been
induced to sell the leases by an offer
of a million pounds or some such sum,
What exercises me is what is to be-
come of the thousands of gilded aristo-
crats who are habitually depicted as
living in Park-lane (though it is actu-
ally a very small thoroughfare) bj
the novelists —especially American
novelists —whose characters take a trip
to England. It will be, of course,
impossible for plutocrats of this type
to have their being amongst shops or
boarding-houses;, the Duke, by his
callous act, has created a housing
difficulty it may take the fictionists
years to overcome.
“Rob P.”: Wish I could echo “Bloggs’s”
eulogy of the walking-stick as a defensive
weapon (B. 29/8/’2B). I once bought a
beautifully-finished and innocent-looking
sword-stick from an Italian and carried it
for years, never doubting it would come in
useful in some hour of need. The hour came
one night when I ran into one of those Aus-
tralian institutions known as a “push.” But
I had only managed to spike one young
larrikin’s fist with it when a blow from a
paling, wrenched from a near-by fence,
snapped the badly-tempered steel off close
to the handle. If I hadn’t been a good
sprinter and in addition been lucky enough
to run into the arms of a cop who was
carrying his six-shooter, I mightn’t be writ-
ing this. No more sword-sticks for me.
* * * *
“Pawang”: One branch of the healing art
into which the quack rushes though experts
tread with care is plastic surgery. During
the war the work of a few famous operators
advertised the fact that damaged or faulty
Nature could be improved on or repaired to
a miraculous degree, and it was the beauty
specialists who particularly pricked up their
ears. Genuine plastic surgery, involving the
transference of living tissue from one part
to another, is a delicate operation and re-
quires perfect antiseptic conditions. Also,
in many cases, before the transplanted tissue
can root itself in the new soil the original
supply of blood must be maintained. A
Melbourne woman whom Providence had no
doubt punished for her sins in a previous
existence with a nose regrettably concave
in outline submitted herself to a man who
guaranteed a permanent improvement. She
came out of the operation with a handsome
and pleasantly-aquiline organ which was
generally admired. The time was late winter.
Alas! When the first hot day arrived the
nose collapsed into its former shape and
an alarmed woman discovered that the tip
would point its own way regardless of the
direction taken by its owner. “Paraffin wax,
injected under the skin,” was the laconic
diagnosis of her medical adviser.
s|s * #
“Old Q.”: The manager of a big Brisbane
meat-packing tinn, asked why his firm still
sent out goods bearing the trade-marks of
other enterprises absorbed by the company,
explained that customers were used to the
old brands and a change of label often meant
a falling off in trade. Papua long ago afforded
an instance of this. A private packer who
did a big business with the Islands took the
familiar bullamacow’s head off his label and
substituted his own rather bovine portrait.
The subsequent slump in sales in Papua
was emphatic, and traders were asked to
find out what had caused it. The explana-
tion of the dissatisfied savage was quite
clear. In the past, he admitted, he had been
a confirmed cannibal, but since the advent
of the big fella Gubamen he had renounced
the practice for ever. He was not going to
lcai his fellow-man again for any meat-
TIMES HAVE CHANGED.
DAD ( who has been inveigled down for the Spring Meeting): “Well, well! But you're
not doing it where your mother used to, my girl."
packer, and he would refuse to patronise this
particular firm until it recommenced supply-
ing bullamacow instead of obvious long pig.
* •-!: * *
“R. Volt”: An Australian record in short-
wave wireless communication was put up by
H. Austin, of Perth, and M. Howden, of
Kingwood (Vic.) recently. They conversed
with each other on a 10-metre wave-length,
the lowest ever used for the distance. _ The
advantage of short-wave transmission is its
cheapness and the small power required. In
this case only 40 watts was used by Howden
and six by his friend in the West. Austin
didn’t even use special transmitting valves,
ordinary receiving valves serving just as well.
* * * *
“132KV”: “R. Volt” (B. 5/9/’2B) recom-
mends, as the best method of releasing a vic-
tim from a live wire, a rush to the nearest
telephone and a request to the power-station
authorities to cut off the current. But that
must take time, and even moments are
precious in these cases. Therefore I suggest
that a swifter method of release is to throw
the nearest suitable conductor—-fencing-wire
is an ideal one—over two or more of the
wires. This will blow the fuses in the case
of low-tension mains at the sub-station, and
in the case of high-tension lines a r<>lay will
operate an oil circuit-breaker at the power
station, making the line dead. But the res-
cuer must take good care that the conductor
is not in contact with his own body when
it touches the live wires.
* * * *
“Avon” : When the Japanese training ships
visited Wellington (M.L.) one of the local
poets got so worked up about it that he com-
posed an ode of welcome and sent it to
Admiral Kobayashi. A few days later came
a letter of acknowledgment, and with it
a scroll eight feet long and a foot wide on
which two young lieutenants of the Idzumo
had painted a Japanese translation of the
poem. The artists modestly wrote that they
had “had the honor to translate the poem
into as poetic style of our language as we
possibly could.”
* * * *
“Zirk”: Westralia’s goldmining history
only dates back to the ’eighties, but before
that there were many fruitless quests. In
1864 a convict, Wildman, told the Governor
that he had picked up eight nuggests of
gold while fossicking around Exmouth Gulf,
where the ship Marie Augusta, of which he
was mate, had put in to make some repairs,
a few years previously: he further staff'd that
he had received £416 for the gold in Liverpool
and would disclose the exact locality if the
rest of his sentence were remitted. Some
confirmation of the sale of the gold in Liver-
pool is said to have been obtained, and a vessel
was despatched up the coast with eight men
aboard, including the convict; they landed
at Exmouth Gulf, but never found what they
were looking for, or satisfied themselves
whether Wildman had told th" truth. How-
ever. in Roebuck Bay they did discover an
abundance of pearl-shell, and returned to
Fremantle with a few tons of it. An
average of 1500 tons, worth from £l5O to
£2OO per ton, is now fished annually from
these waters.
“Si Anu”: When the three 18-inch guns
which have been shipped to Singapore are
mounted, the base will have an armament
capable of outranging any vessel afloat. Tde
trio of leviathans were a product of Bora
Fisher's brain. One was mounted on tne
Furious for use in the Admiral’s projected
Baltic enterprise, but the first discharge
nearly shook the ship to pieces. Later the
three guns were placed on monitors, but
before they could be used against the Ger-
man batteries in Belgium the Armistice
bugles sounded. They weigh 150 tons apiece,
and are some slight advance on another
piece of Singapore ordnance which has crept
into history. This gun was set up as a
tocsin at a time when the Chinese secret
societies were threatening to over-run the
colony. It was fired at sunset, after which
any native found abroad was liable to arrest
and imprisonment. The secret societies
lifted the gun, carriage and all, and carried
it off to their headquarters in the jungle.
* * * *
“Tallama”: For quaint names commend
me to some of those borne by “one-teacher"
schools in the Ma State. In a recent issue
of the N.S.W. Education Gazette one
finds the following: Bob-in Flat, Good
Night, Burnt Yards, Coffee Camp, Dum Dum,
Holy Camp, Guy Fawkes, Maison dc Dieu,
Repentance Creek, Rough It, Sally’s Flat,
Cob-o’-Corn, Coffin Rock and Finger Post.
* * * *
“Spare Gabbett”: According to Ameri-
can advices that old floating libel the Suc-
cess is shortly to re-commence her itiner-
ary as an “Australian convict ship.” For
some years she has been showing under this
guise in American waters, and a generation
of Yanks which has long forgotten the
early-day slave-convicts of Virginia has
gloated over the convict beginnings of. Aus-
tralia, though these are entirely fictitious,
as far as the Success is concerned. The
ship was an old East Indiaman, built in
Burma, and, though she was used for a
period as a prison hulk in Melbourne, never
carried a convict overseas since her keel wms
laid. But the fiction attaching to the ancient
hooker dies hard, even in this country; as
recently as September 7 the Sydney Sun
contained a reference to “the period when
she carried convicts from Britain to Botany
Bay.”
“THIS SIDE IDOLATRY.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Carl Roberts, author of the latest book on
Dickens, is charged with raking over a muckheap of
old slanders.”
Though Binks the novelist may be
Of all his tribe the super-seller,
Some details, rummaged out by me,
Show him a most peculiar feller.
I’m planning an outspoken “Life.”
Conspiracies of silence, glossing
Ilis strained relations with his wife,
Observe me to the discard tossing.
If breakfast happened to be late,
Upon her face behold him dancing:
Some correspondence, signed, with date,
Will make it clear I’m not romancing.
When, in the place of things that ain’t,
I give the world the truth unvarnished
Full many a Victorian saint
Will find his halo sadly tarnished.
Thus Binks, and likewise Banks, his friend,
Arrayed in silken pink pyjamas
Went frequently upon the bend
With bold Terpsichorean charmers.
And, since the Truth must be proclaimed,
Buggins, the poet, was no better.
A certain night-club might be named....
It’s all in an unpublished letter.
Oh, yes; Binks wrote a book or two—
His first editions still are pricey.
(So is the Life I have in view—
Net, twenty choice and spicy.)
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.
TO MYSELF —IN A SNAPSHOT,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Your direst foe has seldom called you vain;
Your visage (bluntly be the truth con-
fessed)
Had never much of beauty at its best:
Honest, perchance, but most distinctly plain.
Yet. here, your smile is feeble and inane,
Your vacant look and staring eye suggest
That you have narrowly escaped arrest
As one not —-•well, not altogether sane.
Surely, O bard, you are not such a guy;
Surely, this portrait must be false and
crude;
But if the camera has told no lie.
And if your friends pronounce the likeness
good.
Advice is cheap, yet all the same —well,
dash it!
You must take down your looking-glass and
smash it.
N.S.W.
ALEX. SCOTT.


*p
D.
.•a
*«S3S
:i
%
V.
'...
»•
HF
as
■ <f i
sHS
BSfc:
ss#
as
vr-
eSk
L’ Ts3S
ife
wi
<=!
><• »
-• •: •
®S*
y 3
mKtfhsA*
mm
&**?!**£ ■■ • fc
mm
/y
Ig^gi
ttl^
, u ;>'. • ■
wAtfr&m
. 3fer«*£22ss®
&
■
t J -;i
&5
'&jf
s;^»a
NtVK
-OV,:
LiSdn-lii
r.^M*
JV •
Hku JWi»
■cn~
SJfe
I .* l,t ' . *‘>ir* -li**\ 1 1 11
m
m
"«m
■<% V-
mt
M
In Nelson s day the
flag was nailed to the
mast ere the ship
engaged in battle.
There could be no
surrender I
S Ydiling the Gtlors to the <^Mast
Eighteen years have passed since the
J. H. Sharwood enterprise . was
launched. The standard nailed to the
mast then still flaunts bravely in the
breeze of prosperity. Though the
shoemaking industry has been passing
through a period of depression the
extensive plant in the Sharwood works
is never idle, for the business has been
built on a sound policy—i.e., to main-
tain the highest ideals of manufactur-
ing. The passing of the years has not
dimmed the ideal which inspired the
young man who set out to make better
boots and shoes than had ever been
made previously in this country. It
is that fact which has resulted in the
production of an article which is
genuinely good and which continues
to increase in popularity all over
Australia.
In the making of Sharwood Shoes only
the finest materials are used. No
fabric which is in the slightest degree
defective is permitted to enter the
factory. Workmanship is exceptional
because the craftsmen have been speci-
ally trained over a number of years.
The goods are available in a great
range of varying shapes (made in true
half sizes), so that for any normal foot
there is a perfect fitting. Moreover,
a Sharwood shoe will retain its original
shape for a lengthy period.
“The shoemaker owes a duty to the
public” is the emphatic opinion of
J. H. Sharwood. “It is his duty to
protect the consumer against the evils
of shoddy footwear. The purchase of
a defective boot or shoe entails in the
long run a montary loss. In addition,
the wearing of faulty footwear
(according to medical testimony) is
a menace to health. I hold that the
manufacturer who makes bad boots is
guilty of a serious offence against the
public. There is but one way for the
purchaser to safeguard himself, and
that is to insist on having an article
which bears the brand of the maker.
I will not permit my name to be in-
scribed on a shoe unless it is as near
perfect as human skill can make it.”
Idle boasting is not the object of this
advertisement—it is to assure the
public that behind the Sharwood pro-
ducts is an ideal—a policy—which has
been tried and tested in the battling
of eighteen years. More than once in
the past this manufacturer has faced
possible disaster by his refusal to get
down to a lower grade—but the colors
were nailed to the mast —there could
be no surrender!
When next you need a pair of boots
or shoes—try Sharwood’s. They are
made for both men and women, in
welts and pumps, in many shapes and
many shades. There is no need to
have shoes made specially when you
wear Sharwood’s—they cost a little
more, but you will find them surpris-
ingly comfortable and durable. The
name is on every pair—look for itl
{joes of Hefinement.
Obtainable leading stores throughout Australia. Any difficulty in procuring will be overcome by getting into touch with
the Sharwood Service Bureau, Box 7, Post Office, Abbotsford, Melbourne (’Phone J3lQ4—3 lines).


Where Perfect Cuisine, Beautiful
Surroundings and the Spirit of
Revelry Combine to Make a
Memorable Evening’s Enjoyment.
Come Soon :: Come To-night.
You’ll be glad you came.
MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY,
THURSDAY, FRIDAY.
DINNER DE LUXE, 7.30 12/6
SUPPER, from 10 o’clock 8/6
SATURDAY-
LATE NIGHT OF DISTINCTION.
A Superb Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
Special Supper, 10 o’clock .. 12/6
True Relaxation, Substituting Joy and Delight.
DELIGHTFUL TEA DANSANT, WITH
SPARKLING CABARET,
3to 5, 4/-; 6 up, 3/6.
Saturday, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
Everlasting Never-leak Blow-off Valve
2 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
NEVER FAILS TO GIVE COMPLETE SATISFACTION.
Reference to innumerable users throughout the Commonwealth.
Made only By-
GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED,
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD,
CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
Illustrated Catalogue cannot fail to interest you.
HOTEL SYDNEY
Management: Edward T. Cheeseman.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel.
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
Throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
80ft. above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from 19/6
Bed and Breakfast from 13/-
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines).
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Ages of Commonwealth Senators, accord-
ing to Johns’s "Who’s Who in Australia” :
Abbott 59, Carroll 56, Chapman 49, “Charlie” Cox
65, Elliott 50, Foil 38, Glasgow 52, Gardiner 61,
Massy Greene 54, Guthrie 56, Kingsmill 64, Lynch
61, McLachlan 56, Needham 54, President New lands
64, Ogden 60, Payne 62, Pearce 58, Sampson 46,
Thomas 65, Thompson 65 and Verran 72.
The Speck’s Attorney-General, H. S.
Baker, had the pleasure of appointing a
fellow-Digger, Andrew Inglis Clark, LL.B.,
to the Bench in succession to the late
Justice Ewing. The new Judge is a son of
A. I. Clark, who was Attorney-General in
two Tasmanian Ministries. He served his
articles with his father’s old partner, M.
W. Simmons, and was afterwards under
Mr. A. D. Watcliorn. During the last two
years of his war service he was a member
of the Courts-Martial branch at General
Birdwood’s H.Q., and he was mentioned in
despatches for service in the field. Since
his return he has been secretary of the
Southern Law Society. He is 45.
T. BRAILSFORD ROBERTSON, Professor
of Bio-clxemistry at Adelaide University.
Count G. de Tournouer, reference libra-
rian and interpreter to the Queensland De-
partment of Agriculture and Stock, was
invested by the State Governor the other
day with the French Order of Academy
Officer, in recognition of years of literary,
artistic and educational services. He served
in the A.1.F., his father and two brothers
w T ere killed in France, and three other
brothers received the Croix deGGuerrae —a
family record to be proud of.
With Albert Edward Jorgensen, on
whose massive chest a Royal Humane
Society’s medal was pinned in Melbourne
the other night, saving lives is a specialty.
He started two decades ago by fishing two
children out of the water at Port Melbourne.
A Digger who fell off the gang-plank of a
troopship in full marching kit gave him
another opportunity. His latest effort was
to rescue three men from the burning hold
of a motor ship. Jorgensen is a foreman
stevedore of "igantic physique, and keeps in
training for his rescue-work by weight-
lifting, wrestling and Marathon running.
The death of W. H. Lambert adds an-
other name to the long list of Federal mem-
bers who have passed out in sudden and
tragic circumstances during the brief life of
the Commonwealth. The list includes Barton
(first Prime Minister), Holder (first
Speaker), Forrest (our only Lord), Sena-
tors Adamson, Bob Guthrie, McGregor,
Power, Dawson (one-time Premier of
Queensland), and Ministers Batchelor, Prat-
ten, Fraser, Archibald, Arthur anil Roberts,
together with Tom Ityan (also ex-Premier
of Queensland), Howroyd, Charley McDon-
ald, Lonsdale, Edwards, Corser, Jim Page,
Manifold, Jolly and Bob Howe.
A note from Father Martindale: —
The Bulletin of September 5 had a very kind
paragraph about me, but, honestly, I didn’t write
religious pamphlets at 17! That, however, isn’t
why I venture to thank it. The issue of September
12 has caused me to spend my last morning in
Sydney as a victim to yelps of laughter or to long-
drawn grins. Mr. Leason’s frontispiece would have
cheered me for a long time; so would the “Popular
Education” study. The drawing on page 39
gave me a most enduring joy (especially the
right-hand figure), partly' because it seemed to
mo so Australiar) (I hope this isn’t impertinent) and
also because somehow it reminded me of Phil May,
who, I believe, first made his reputation in The
Bulletin. I venture to say, “If you get any more
Phil Mays, keep ’em 1” Australia deserves the vigor-
ous delight that such men can give. To Lugh (not
to giggle or to leer) is a healthy thing for anyone;
The Bulletin has helped me to do it, and I shall
leave Sydney still smiling.
In Maoriland, which is a thoughtful
country, a K.C. who looks as if he had the
makings of a Judge in him is sometimes
given a trial spin as president of the Arbi-
tration Court. One Supreme Court Judge
who went through that apprenticeship was
W. A. Sim, who died recently in harness,
and his reign on the trpartite throne is
still looked back to with admiration by
wage-earners and employers. He had a sym-
pathetic, analytic and intensely sceptical
mind, a combination not often found, and
his awards were models of lucidity and gave
general satisfaction. Transferred to the
Supreme Court Bench, he established his
reputation as a master of law and a keen
student of human nature. He never smiled
while administering justice, but sometimes ho
laughed at a witness’s quaint reply or a
counsel’s unconscious humor. It was a silent
cachinnation. His lips flew apart, disclosing
a rectangular orifice, and then the grim
jaws set harder than ever. Sim was born
in Wanganui and died a couple of years
short of the allotted span.
A record in church ministry in Australia
is claimed for Presbyterian Moderator
Cameron, recently minister of Scots Church
Glen Innes (N.S'.W.)., for 26 years, and his
father, who had charge of the same kirk
for 50 years prior to that —76 years in the
familv without a break.
J. M. Mullins (Footscray) and A. J.
Dunkin (Collingwood), two Vic. State
schoolteachers, have become mayors. They
have been complimented by the Director of
Education upon “the public service which
caused them to be made the first citizens of
their municipalities.”
After being land-agent for years and
Mayor for the last 10, Horace K. Bloxliam,
at 68, has passed out at Bourke (N.S.W.).
He was the author of two books, “On the
Fringe of the Never Never” and “The Double
Abduction,” published by the N.S.W. Book-
stall Co. 20 years or so ago.
Joseph Hatch, dead at Hobart, was once
a member of the Maoriland Parliament and
Mayor of Invercargill. Later he leased from
the Speck Government the uninhabited Mac-
quarie Island, extracted oil from the pen-
guins and seals there and sent it to Hobart.
He carried on the business for some years
before the Government, fearing the penguins
would become extinct, refused to renew the
lease. He was 91 at the end.
An interesting personality was Jim
Woods, who died recently, at 75, in Gympie
(Q.). A Scot, he reached Queensland as a
boy, and was one of the earliest arrivals on
the Gympie goldfield, then known as Nash-
ville, after its discoverer. After a spell of
alluvial mining, he joined the local news-
paper, now the Gympie Times, and later
went to British New Guinea under Dr.
Macgregor as the Territory’s first Govern-
ment printer. After a long spell there teach-
ing the heathen the mysteries of setting type
and pulling proofs, Woods returned to his,old
love, Gympie, and settled there, to wait
for sundown.
Colonel Edward Ward, dead in England
at 75, was a notable commissariat officer in
his time. After service in both Ashanti
and the Soudan as D.A.A.G. he was shut
up in Ladysmith with White, who always
gave Ward’s organisation credit for the be-
sieged town’s ability to hold out, and applied
to him the phrase, since bestowed on the late
General Cowan in the Great War, of “the
best commissariat officer since Moses.” As
Permanent Under-Secretary for War in later
days, Ward’s signature was familiar to many
Australians who served as officers _ in the
Bushmen regiments, and thus received an
“Imperial” instead of a “Colonial” commis-
sion. Ward signed as Under-*Sec., und
other notable seratchings on the parchment
were those of A. G. Lyttleton, the famous
English cricketer and later Minister for
War, and the late King Ned. That personal
touch vanished with the great upheaval.
Commissions for that are signed with rubber-
stamps.
N. S. Wales schoolteachers, through whose
agency a big proportion of the money for the
Lawson memorial was raised in the pennies
of the school-kids, have been growing annoyed
about the delay in giving Bobby Burns a
companion in Sydney Domain. George Lam-
bert did the design two years ago, but the
J. P. JONES,
M.L.C., Vic.
Minister for
Works, Mines
and Migration,
who toiled lor
a farmer 35
years ago, and
now has 3000
acres and a big
city tailoring
business.
committee wanted some alteration; there
has been a dreary wait, and now the work
will have to be cast abroad, which means
that there will be still further delay. Per-
haps at the unveiling of the statue, which
is to represent Lawson rising in an attitude
of inspiration from a confab with a seated
sundowner and his dog, a few surviving
greybeards will assemble in the forefront of
the crowd and recall garrulously how they
put in their coppers when they were small
boys at school.
The new president in S.A. of the Com-
monwealth Institute of Valuers is H. H.
Sando, of a well-known Adelaide family. He
is a director of the Wilkinson, Sando and
Wyles Co., treasurer and board member of
the Repertory Theatre, and not long ago was
playing cricket for S.A.
Adelaide loses a good man in C. A. M.
West, secretary-manager of the Commercial
Travellers’ Association in S.A., who has
been chosen out of 130 applicants for the
similar position in N.S.W. He was pre-
viously secretary to the Adelaide Stock
Exchange, and for years was secretary to
both Rowing and Lacrosse Associations of
S.A. He went to the Olympic Games as
manager of the Murray Bridge crew in 1924.
Just after R. A. Crouch finished
his 10 years in the Reps. (B; 5/9/’2S) he
was on parade as Lieut. Colonel commanding
a Citizen Force battalion, and as he passed
down the ranks inspecting, somebody yelled
out from one end, “Howjer like losing yer
seat?” Crouch and the S.M. sailed up to
find the culprit, and the query came from
the other end. The ex-M.11.R quelled the
disturbance eventually by threatening to
fine the whole parade 10 bob a head.
N. S. Wales Oddfellows buried their
Ancient Inhabitant when Edward Bettin-
son, who died at 96, was interred at
Tamworth the other day. Bettinson landed
in Sydney in 1851, when the place was a
village of 12,000 people, mostly nestled be-
tween King-street and the Quay. He com-
menced paying his Oddfellows’ fees when the
Tamworth Loyal Friendship Lodge was char-
tered in 1859.
Technical errors in three wills are holding
up £200,000 of benefactions to incapacitated
Diggers in Victoria. Mary Ann Paterson,
Emily Claughton and David Matthias Mor-
gan each left large sums to a “returned
soldiers’ institution or association.” The
question to be decided by the lawyers is
whether the testators intended to relieve
State or Federal Governments of their obli-
gations, or give directly to the soldiers
through their own organisations.
A few weeks ago Edinburgh University
dealt out hoods, caps and sheepskins, among
which were four honorary D.D.’s. One of
these went to Gray Dixon, minister-emeritus
of Roslyn kirk, Dunedin (M.L.), who gradu-
ated in Glasgow Uni., spent a few years as
Professor of English in the Tokio College of
Engineering and then went to Auld Reekie
to qualify for the ministry. For forty-four
years he has pounded Scotchbyterian pulpits
in this continent and Maoriland, and nine
years ago he had a term as Moderator
of General Assembly in the Quavery Islands.
A profound scholar and a prolific writer, he
has the saving grace of modesty, and was
most astonished to hear that his second
Alma Mater had decided to make him a
doctor.
An eminently capable soldier was Lieut-
Col. J. H. Peck, late O.C. Military Train-
ing for Queensland, who died in Brisbane
recently. Adjutant to Westralia’s famous
11th Battalion, Peck was at the landing
and evacuation at Gallipoli, was
wounded there. Later, he went to France,
won the D. 5.0., and was created a C.M.G.,
as well as being several times mentioned in
despatches. Before he took up duty in
Queensland in 1927 he had been chairman of
the Expropriation Board in Mandated New
Guinea. He was only 42.
A typical Queenslander, J. T. Mathew-
son, of Brisbane, a missionary attached to the
China Inland Mission, has landed back in
his native city after some stirring experi-
ences in the Flowery Land. He was in the
interior of China when the last upheaval
began, and instead of making for the fresh
air by the dangerous route to the coast,
tackled the considerable job of crossing China
to Thibet, where he was lucky enough to
strike the German explorer Wilhelm Filch-
ner, with whose party he spoilt nearly a
year. Meanwhile he was given up for dead.
John Nankiville Dunn, who represented
Ballarat East in Vic. Assembly from ISB9
to 1994, is nearly 90, and thinks he has
earned a rest, lie has, therefore, retired
from the Ballarat Benevolent Home com-
mittee, on which he has served for about 30
years.
If Lord Birkenhead goes into “the city,’’
as predicted in a cable, it will repre-
sent about the greatest sacrifice for money
in modern political life. He has had two
loves—the Bar and politics; he has been
splendidly successful in each, and each has
tailed him financially. His old place at the
War has been taken by younger men such as
Birkett and Jowitt, and in politics he is
marooned in the House of Lords. Birkenhead
aid not marry money (his wife was a clergy-
man’s daughter), lie has a family, and his
tastes are extremely expensive. Life in the
city will be abhorrent to him, but it will
represent £2OOOO a year or more, which is
the kind of income he needs. His friend
Winston Churchill also began public life
without money and married into a poor
family. But Churchill has made a small
fortune by his books, and he was recently
left a valuable estate by an admiring kins
man. Also, his tastes are comparatively
simple; there is no more devoted family man
in the kingdom.
E. M. LAWTON, fine fellow and Consul-
General for U.S.A. in Sydney, as seen
by Autori, of the J.C.W. opera co., at
one of the junketings.
Captain William Roderick O'Connor, who
piloted the chief boat in the Eucharistic
procession on Sydney Harbor, owns a curious
friendship with seagulls. The birds flock to
his ship when he passes Montague Island
on his way to South Coast ports, and they
follow it for miles. They perch on his
shoulders and arms, and literally eat out
of his hands. One of the skipper’s brothers
was Sir James O’Connor, who was Lord
Chief Justice of Ireland.
FORGETFULNESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Backward I look: ’tis like a waning dream,
With colors melting in a misty haze;
Like tempests lulled in languid peace they
seem, *
Those far-gone, fearful days.
Backward I look: the Hell of thunder-roar,
When men were torn and crushed in wan-
ton death,
Sinks, with the clamoring horror long since
o’er,
To a fitful breath.
Backward I look, shuddering to think that
man
Smote man in warfare’s reeking flame.
And yet, ,
Soothed by the soft grey hand of Time, I can
Forget.
N.S.W.
P. E. SMYTHE.


REPUDIATED.


F U LtV FAifi lON E D
SBg3!
ou may pay a little more for Fully
Fashioned Hosiery by Prestige, but these
creations give entire satisfaction and that exclu-
siveness necessary to a woman of refined taste. 18^11
CveaMoro


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
IWonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ADFIELDS
AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadlields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and i Alexandria. Svdney, K.S.W.
Foundries 1 Bassendean. Perth. W.A.
Brunch ( 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office ( T. k G. Building, Brisbane. Q
The Latest ROSS MODEL
warn
will instantly become the
Popular
Racing Glas
With much wider field than other Binoculars of similar power, with a new
type of eyepiece, with improvements in the special prism, and having a
central screw-focussing adjustment this latest production of the famous
Ross Optical Manufacturers is a Veritable Triumph.
In Brown Leather Sling Case, £l5/15/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
Sole Agents for Ross Binoculars,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
PLAIN FIGURES—-CASH ONLY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Student Prince”
Royal (com. Saturday) “Interference’’
Criterion (com. Saturday) “The Patsy”
Palace (com. Satuiday) “Bird in Hand’’
Empire “Annie Laurie” >k “Eris”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Regent Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Desert Song’
Royal “The Silent House”
New Comedy “All the King's Horses”
King’s “The Donovan Affair”
Atmen.eum “White Collars”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
♦
The grand operators might have put on the
bright, well-contrasted double bill “H Ta-
barro” and “Gianni Schicchi” before the tail-
end of the season at Sydney Her Majesty’s.
“11 Tabarro,’’ which is musical Grand Guig-
nol, is grimly humorous ; a capital feature is
the orchestral reproduction of the tinny out-
of-tune playing of a barrel-organ to which two
of the characters dance whilst the tragedy
accumulates. Granforte was the barge-owner
consumed with affection for the trivial wife,
Giogetta, and going mad with fury when he
discovers her faithlessness with Luigi (Fran-
cesco Merli), whom he encounters on his
barge and strangles to the accompaniment of
wild music. Scavizzi’s dramatic capacity had
ample scope as the lady whose thoughts, were
not on the washing; and Ida Mannarini was
an excellent pedlar. The house brought these
performers back nine times in token of its
appreciation, and gave them an extra round
of applause when they appeared in the audi-
torium to witness the next piece. “Gianni
Schicchi” is a romping production in which
melody chases comedy round a theme concern-
ing the anxiety of relatives over the missing
will of one Donati. Ghirardini showed a
great capacity for humor in the name part,
and Angelo Minglietti and Aurora Rcttore
supplied the love interest, whilst Luigi Cilia,
of the fine dramatic equipment, shone amongst
the dead man’s relations.
* * * *
The curtain fell on Friday with an after-
noon of selections from various operas after
a concert at the Sydney Town Hall on the
preceding night. The demonstrations were so
prolonged at the matinee that the company
must have wondered if it would be released in
EILEEN SPARKES, now with “The Patsy,” opening in Sydney
on Saturday.
time to catch the train for Adelaide. There
ias a bit of appropriate recognition intro-
duced after Angelo Mmghetti had sung his
music m. ‘Tosca. The Stork had arrived
at the Mmghetti flat on the previous night;
and the proud father was handed up a
floral cradle.
t-, • ■* * ™
The Empire Theatre first introduced “The
Student Prince” to Sydney; the J.C.W.
firm re-introduced it at Her Majesty’s on
Saturday, with Beppy de Vries as the
dainty, self-sacrificing Kathie. Other-
wise the cast is not greatly changed,
and the few alterations are for the
better. The male chorus is as robust as
ever, and P. Cory invests Von Mark with
an air of authority which makes the pliancy
of the young prince more reasonable. James
Liddy remains an attractive prince, although
his voice would be better without the stagey
tremolo, and his habit of clicking his heels
is overdone; Arthur Stigant gives zest to the
comedy as Lutz, with adequate assistance
from Mason Wood and rather too much of
it from Millie Engler, who plays the Grand
Duchess Anastasia on the broadest lines.
Beppy de Vries is naturally a winsome
Kathie; a notable improvement is the lively
Gretchen of Vera Spaull; and Adele Crane
makes a satisfactory Princess Margaret.
* * *
The Empire ballet remains the brightest
feature in the change of bill which intro-
duced the revue “Eris” and the picture
“Annie Laurie” to the Railway-square
theatre (Sydney) last Friday. The comedy
of the revue is of a cheap variety, and not
even well put over; although Violet Elliott
is, as usual, good. Tom .Collins’s nice
voice hardly compensates for his appalling
stiffness, but well-arranged and -dressed
dances just about pull the show through.
The picture “Annie Laurie” drags into action
many Scots who don’t look anything like
Highlanders, but the story is a compact and
interesting one., and Lillian Gish makes an
appealing heroine.
« V «
“The Patsy” is to arrive at the Sydney
Criterion on Saturday to fill the blank
created by the departure of Margaret Ban-
nerman; on the same night “Interference”
will be introduced by Leon Gordon at the
Royal, which saw the last of Maurice Mos-
covitch last week. The success of “Dear
Brutus” induced the management to give
it another week of life. at Sydney Palace,
and Drinkwater’s “Bird in Hand’’ is post-
poned thereby until Saturday next. “Rio
Rita,” at the St. James, alone remains un-
changed ; it is now in its sixth month
and still full of running.
* * *
The Sydney University Dramatic Society
is doing its bit, or part of it, for the Uni-
versity Appeal Fund on Friday and Satur-
day with a performance at the Conserva-
torium. “Ambrose Applejohn’s Adventure”
is to be the theme of the merrymaking.
* ¥ *
William II eu g-
han was due to
start his season at
Sydney Town Hall
last night, too late
for this Page to
offer any remarks
about the perform-
ance. There will be
another concert to-
morrow (Thurs-
day) and a third
on Saturday night.
The Newtown
Majestic saw Kate
Howard change her
bill to “The Limit”
on Saturday night.
The lady wrote it
herself, and staged
it also, many years
ago, in Sydney. It
is stereotyped melo-
drama, old model,
but is moderately
interesting, and the
company puts it
over adequately.
* *
There is plenty
of thrill in the act
of Barbette, who
arrived at the Syd-
ney Tivoli on Mon-
day night; it seems
miraculous at times
that the attractive
lady manages to
keep her draperies
on. Con Kenpa,
shows himself an
amusing comedian,
Pepito still justifies
the first syllable
in his name, and
the droll Cromwell
Knox is back again.
The Ful]ers » Theatre new revue, “Mar-
ried Life,” confirms the impression that it
i s mainly wrath and bubble where alimony
hangs like a millstone around the neck of
the unfortunate husband. Even those who
feel that there is nothing to laugh at in
the trials of matrimony can find out their
mistake in watching the exposition of
Charles Norman and co. Pitcher and
Leslie, added to the variety section, enter-
tain with what they call “a potpourri of
vaudeville.” Hal Baker provides some danc-
ing which is just as much acrobatics.
* ¥ *
The Australian film has too much ten-
dency to become a stereotyped affair. Some
glimpses of station life, views of Sydney
Harbor in sailing season and racecourse
scenes have apparently got to go in. How-
ever, “Odds On,” which was given a private
screening last week, is essentially a racing
picture, so the turf snaps are justified. Arthur
Tauchert is a genial trickster whose good
nature enables him to bestow his blessing
ultimately upon the hero and heroine; and
Phyllis Gibbs shows she has a good screen-
face, although not much capacity for expres-
sion. There is some natural acting and
the photography is good.
* * *
The Regent has extended the span of the
artistic “Four Sons” to Friday week. The
Arcadia Theatre, which is screening a series
of Sherlock Holmes stories, has introduced
an attractive novelty in the “color music”
of Sydney-man Hector, who for 20 years
has been working on the relation between
musical and color harmonies. The experi-
ment is an interesting one, and reminds one
that there is a Vienna scientist who claims
to be able to make colors audible. Hoyt’s
De Luxe has an interesting double with Larry
Semon in a laughable farce, “Spuds,” and
that intelligent equine Rex in “The Devil
Horse.”
* * ¥
Those who accept “Beau Geste” as a
faithful picture of life in contemporary
Morocco will find nothing in “The Desert
Song” (His Majesty’s, Melbourne) to strain
their credulity. A Rilfian tribesman (Douglas
Herald), who lives surrounded by 30 Spanish
beauties in a desert harem almost as ornate
as an Australian suburban picture theatre,
and a French officer (Lance Fairfax), who
alternately plays the part of an imbecile
son to the governor and the leader —called
the Red Shadow—of a rebellious tribe will
arouse no carping comment. Nor will the
arrival in divers irrelevant places of an
English low comedian (Herbert Mundin)
armed with a vaudeville equipment appear an
unjust intrusion. Even the improper,
behavior of Stephanie Deste in trying to
seduce an elderly general by dancing around
him in a costume consisting of about a dozen
beads strikes' no discord. Lance Fairfax’s
dual impersonation of the Red Shadow and
the general’s son is outstanding, histrioni-
cally, vocally and sartorially. Virginia Perry,
as the moonstruck maiden whose romantic
delusions provide the necessary motive for
a night ride with an imitation sheik in the
desert, is not very impressive, though her
voice is the genuine article. Nor doe 3
Herbert Mundin’s punning call for enthusi-
asm ; a dull flat voice is the small clown’s
chief drawback. The humor of Lorna Helms,
on the other hand, is innate and shines.
Herbert Brown’s pure and expressive tenor
mounts larklike above the other warbles via
the whiskers of Sid el Kar, one of the leading
Riff roughs. “The Song” is bound in the
most expensive covers, and the music of
Sigmund Romburg is satisfying.
* * #
If the'late Alberto Zelman was anywhere
in the vicinity of Melbourne Town Hall on
Thursday afternoon he must have been emi-
nently satisfied with the musical tribute
Moiseiwitsch paid to his memory. In help-
ing to endow a memorial cot the Polish
pianist played with more genuine feeling than
lie has displayed on previous occasions when
the box-office takings have gone into his
own pocket. There was a trace of his usual
exaggeration in the slow movement of the
Waldstein, but it quickly disappeared in a
burst of real sincerity, which carried him
through to the triumphant finish. The Bach
prelude in C major and the same composer’s
richly-colored Chromatic Fantasia and Fugue
were the pillars to the noble arch of sound
Moiseiwitsch erected, and the solemn Chopin
funeral march was the keystone thereof.
* * #
George Wallace and co. have once more
burst upon Melb. Bijou with a loud revue.
The female chorus is not without energy and
charm, but the male ditto would inspire more
enthusiasm if it didn’t look stunned or half-
asleep. A bright" feature of the entertainment
is Wallace as a butler who wants the after-
noon off from an over-haunted house. Maida
Jones is a plump girl who is an adept at
walking like a crane, and Daley is the modest
purveyor of some excellent topical verse of
his own. He is assisted or retarded by a lady
with an indescribable voice.
* * *
The 20 Ingenues are in session at Mel-
bourne Tivoli and The Bulletin’s local de-
partment of musical criticism is frankly not
impressed. The Artless Score are alleged
to have been culled from American colleges,
and they ought to be spanked and sent back
to school for making a horrible and un-
maidenly row. Some of them are fair and
none of them is forty, so there is that in their
favor; but jazz-band buffoonery is better
left to the stronger sex. The rest of the
programme, including Kenna, the comic
aeroplanist, and Barker and Wynne, is per-
fectly O.K.
* * *
Moscovitch will stage the more or less
“Silent House” at Melbourne Royal on
Saturday.
¥ * *
Irene Vanbrugh recommenced ordering
bubbly to celebrate N. McKinnel’s downfall
in “All the King’s Horses” at the Melbourne
Comedy on Saturday.
* * *
Melbourne Athenaeum curtain will rise on
“Saturday’s Children” on the 22nd. This
variety of infant is probably the sort that
gets bathed on Fridays, but The Bulletin
has no precise information on the subject.
LEAL DOUGLAS, with the Gregan
McMahon players at the Sydney
Palace.
Melbourne Majestic patrons this _ week
are getting a close-up of the domestic in-
felicities of May McAvoy and the beauteous
Conrad Nagel in “If I Were Single,” a
frivolous story of the sad misunderstandings
that arise between a couple fresh from the
altar. Hoyt’s, with the aid of Lilian Gish,
is making a heroic effort to turn the amb-
ling story of “La Boheme” into a gripping
drama. Where the silent narrative is most
interesting it is least, like the opera.
Advance booking' for opera at Adelaide
Royal has been tremendous. Pending its
arrival there has been a pleasant variety
programme, headed by the delightful Barbette
on trapeze and rings; Jimmy Kemper, a
clever actor who works over hard, perhaps,
for his effects; and Cromwell Knox, with
talk as funny as his juggling is clever. To
the Prince of Wales the Show Week crowd
flocks to see itself burlesqued in a revival of
“The Rudd Family,” by Duggan and co.; and
it makes no complaint about the unflattering
portrait. The übiquitous Dolores del Rio
is in a Carmen picture at the Regent;
Corinne Griffiths partly undresses in a
crowd in a Monte Carlo Eden at the York;
and the sex of “Aunt Mary,” who grew sud-
denly young again at Wondergraph, is dis-
cussed keenly. And the Pav. gets in early
with the whole film of Tunney putting
Heeney to sleep.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.C.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
ii CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, n.s.w.
■
m
The most famous little book
on Business ever written.
We will gladly send you a
complimentary copy.
Name
Business Address
\ Modern
JUST PUBLISHED.
“Are There Oil Prospects
in Australia?”
By E. DE HAUTPICK, F.G.S.
Contents:—(l) What is Petroleum? (2) Petroleum
Formation —a Phase of Organic Sedimentation. (3)
Chemical Distinction of the Organic Sediments.
(4) Origin of Oil. (5) Accumulation of Oil in Com-
mercial Pools. Summary. (6) Fundamental Conditions
of the Areas in Regard to Oil. (a) Areas without
Petroleum, (b) Areas with Petroleum. (7) Geologic
Background of Australia, (a) Difference Between
Northern and Southern Hemispheres, (b) Abun-
dance of Life Necessary to Petroleum Formation,
(c) Earth’s Crustal Movements of Australia. (8)
Where Oil Deposits May Occur in Australia.
Renmark paper, the Murray Pioneer., says:—-
“This book reveals in every paragraph, in the ordered
marshalling of its statements, and in the limpid
lucidity with which scientific facts are made plain
to the untutored layman, the easy familiarity of a
master.”
COLE’S BOOK ARCADE,
14 Rundle Street, Adelaide;
and from the Author,
South Australian Hotel, Adelaide.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Union Bank of Australia, Ltd.
Dividends Writ-
Feb., Profits. (14 p.c.). ten off. Reserves,
£ £ £ £
1918.. 326,160 280,000 2,099,293
1919.. 349,321 280,000 20,000 2,148,614
Premiums on new shares, £600,000 2,648,614
(15 p.c.)
1920.. 458,102 375,000 20,000 2,711,716
1921.. 516.340 375,000 20,000 2,833,057
Premiums on new shares, £400,000 3,233,057
1922.. 536,261 412,500 20,000 3,336,813
1923.. 652,894 450,000 3,439,712
1924.. 550,291 460,000 3,540,003
Premiums on new shares, £600,000 4,140,003
1925.. 690,399 487,500 4,242,902
1926.. 627,611 525,000 50,000 4,295,513
1927.. 627,426 525,000 50,000 4,347,939
Premiums on new shares, £600,000 4,947,939
1928.. 638,965 562,spo 50,000 1 , 01Qjn .
£25,000) 4.y4«,4U4
Half-way through the term the board
issued a half-million of new capital at a
premium of 20 p.c. The last of the money
came in shortly before the close of accounts;
thus paid capital advanced to £4,000,000,
and the already corpulent reserves were
further fattened by £600,000 of share pre-
miums. For more than half a century the
board’s policy has been to issue new shares
at a premium, and during the past decade
no less than £2,100,000, or over 42 p.c.
of the visible reserves at the close of last
accounts, had been received in that way.
The premium, of course, means that the 15
p.c. div. is not nearly so rich as it looks.
For one thing the last lot of new capital
is costing the bank only 6.8 p.c. Last year
the net return on average funds (capital
and reserves combined) was 7.6. p.c. com-
pared with 8 p.c. in the previous year. But
that was after provision had been made for
bad and doubtful debts and other contingen-
cies ; the fact that shareholders have never
failed to receive an annual div. for the
past 90 years may be taken as an indica-
tion of the great care with which the
cautious board has written the figures into
the sheet.
Although advances were £1,487,979 lighter
than at the previous balance, and an extra
£1,433,104 of deposits was gathered in dur-
ing the year, the spring in income was
£25,233 as against £12,617 in the 1927 term.
Here are the figures:—■
1925. 1927. 1928.
Income .. .. £1,430,714 £1,606,462 £1,531,695
Exes 840,315 879,036 892,730
Net profit .. £590,399 £627,426 £638,965
Just a little more was disclosed than was
necessary to meet the increased exes., pay
the div., write £50,000 off premises and hand
£25,000 to the provident fund.
Trade movements and banking policy are
reflected in balance-sheet figures:—
Liabimties.
iQO£ 1Q97 iqoq
Notes .. .. £721,031 £592,084 £572.395
Deposits .. . . 33,995,484 32,545,478 33,978,582
Bills, etc. .. 4,005,166 4,378,574 3,343,909
Liquid assets .. 20,060,779 16,148,847 19,156,017
Advances .. .. 26,274,751 29,088,976 27,600.997
Premises .. .. 391,553 388,752 387,275
What probably pleases the board more than
anything else there is the growth in de-
posits. How much of the total is fixed and
how much free is not disclosed in the sheet,
but the last quarterly banking returns show
that about 63 p.c. of the lot is interest-
bearing. The shrinkage of £1,034,665 in
the bills figures is not a bad sign either.
The tightening-up in advances is part of
the general banking policy to correct the
tendency towards overspending that showed
up in too strong a demand for accommoda-
tion a year or so ago. The extent to which
the position has been righted is visible in
the ratio of advances to deposits, which
dropped to 79.6 p.c. last year compared with
93.5 p.c. in the previous term. The new
share and. premium money, and a lot more,
all went into liquids, which increased over
£3,000,000 during the year. The expansion
in the London funds (£8.904,168), including
bills in transit, was £1,965,232, due mainly
to a better export season. When the books
were ruled off 10s. Id. of every £1 owing
to the public was held liquid as against Bs.
7d. at the close of accounts in 1927. Also
depositors could see 23 p.c. of their money
in cash and at short call, while tlie bank
was holding only £4 15s. of the public’s
money for every £1 of its own funds; about
the same proportion as in the previous year.
All round the accounts exhibit a very strong
position.
The market looks at the fat pile of visible
reserves, now £949,404 in excess of paid
capital, and heavily discounts the future
by paying £l5 6s. for the £5 paid shares.
The immediate return at that price is only
4.8 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis.
The N.S.W. Monte de Piete.
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
& £> £L &
1918.. 14,993 111 p.c. = 12,656 2337 52,022
1919.. 16,038 124 „ „ 14,062 1976 53,998
Reserves capitalised, £28,125 .. 25,873
1920.. 19,621 124 p.c. = 16,023 3598 29,471
1921.. 21,726 124 „ „ 19,939 1787 31,258
1922.. 26,351 121 „ 23,754,2597 33,855
1923.. 28,834 124 „ „ 25,511 3323 37,178
1924.. 31,320 124 „ „ 28,125 3195 40,373
1925.. 31,056 124 „ „ 30,988 68 40,441
1926.. 31,989 124 ~ „ 31,250 739 41,180
1927.. 32,820 12j „ „ 31,250 1570 42,750
1928.. 29,605 llj „ „ 28,125 1480 44,230
The final distribution was at the rate of 10
p.c. p.a., making 11| p.c. for the year. The
board "blames increased taxation, though in
what sphere is not stated. Certainly exes.
(£29,789) were £2676 heavier, and that
accounts for most of the backslide of £3215
in the year’s net earnings. But gross profits
(£59,394), which are written into the sheet
after providing for bad and doubtful debts,
were £452 lighter, and that notwithstanding
an increase of £19,592 in the chief earning
asset during the year. Apparently taxation
was not the only trouble; possibly the pro-
vision for contingencies at the previous bal-
ance proved to be insufficient. Still, share-
holders have had a long run of good returns,
an average of 11.8 p.c. over the last 20 years,
sweetened with a small capitalisation in
1920. But since then paid capital and
the outside debt have advanced so steadily
that the margin between net earnings and
the 12b p.c. distribution— 2\ p.c. of it i 3
labelled bonus —recently became too narrow
to be comfortable. Since the close of
accounts, at June 30, the £50,000 (10s. per
share) at call on the contribs. has been asked
for. When the money is all received paid
capital will be £300,000. A 121 p.c. distri-
bution will then call for £37,500, to pay
which total funds, on the basis of figures
at June 30, will have to earn 10.9 p.c. Last
year the net return on average funds was
only 10 p.c. compared with 11.2 p.c. and 11
p.c. in the two preceding years. Earnings
will need to improve if shareholders are to
count upon anything better than 10 p.c. in
the immediate future. The market has re-
vised its estimate of the value of the scrip.
A year ago the paids were at 435.; recently
sellers were asking 385., after sales at 355. 6d.
At the latter price the return is 7 p.c. on a
121 p.c. div. basis, or 5.6 p.c. if the rate
drops to 10 p.c.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows how the business has expanded since
1920
1920. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital.. £147,245 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities .. 3,163 78,605 83,794 105,610
Freeholds, etc. 26,678 43,867 59,781 60,277
Advances .. 158,979 338,759 329,508 349,037
Cash .. .. 2,215 2,783 2,880 3,026
No indication is given as to how the new
capital is to be employed. Creditors, how-,
ever, have nothing to worry about; they can
see over three times the amount coming to
them in advances alone.
The visible backing for the scrip, after
allowing for the new capital, is only 2s. lid.
in net tangibles. There is, in addition, some
hidden strength in the freehold.
Dennys, Lascelles, Ltd. (Geelong).
June, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Deficit.
1918.. 14,479 7 p.c. = 10,500 3979 42,393
1919.. 17,146 7 „ „ 10,500 6646 35,747
1920.. 20,274 7 „ „ 10,500 9774 25,973
1921.. 11,518 7 „ „ 10,500 1018 24.955
1922.. 15,838 7 „ „ 10,500 5338 19,617
1923.. 17,841 7 „ „ 10,500 7341 12,276
1924.. 15,313 7 „ „ 10,500 4813 7,463
Reserves.
1926.. 21,676 7 „ „ 12.030 9646 2,183
1926.. 18,801 7 „ „ 14,000 4801 6.984
1927.. 20,390 7 „ „ 14,000 ( .„ Qfl
Superannuation Fund, £2OOO j ’
1928.. 25,186 8£ p.c. = 16,500 8686 20,060
Turnover in nearly all departments was a
record, and the net result sprang £4786,
reaching 12.6 p.c. on capital compared with
10.2, 9.4, 15.6 and 10.2 p.c. back to 1924.
In addition to the 7 p.c. div., which has been
an annual event since the public became
interested in 1912, a bonus of 3d. per share
was handed out, making the total distribution
8J; p.c. But earnings in this class of busi-
ness are subject to seasonal fluctuations;
it is necessary, therefore, to look at earn-
ings over a number of years. For the past
decade the average net return on capital
was 11.6 p.c. compared with an average of
10.9 p.c. for the preceding quinquennium.
Although only about two-tbirds of the net
earnings have been distributed during the
past five years, it has taken 15 years to
build up reserves £20,060 in excess of good-
will (£50,000).
Except for a branch in Melbourne, the co.’s
activities were confined for more than half
a century to the Malice and Western Vic-
toria, consequently development was slow.
More recently the management has built up
a strong and growing connection in the Riv-
erina, and the addition of new departments
has widened the field and quickened the turn-
over. It is worth noting that, despite a
lighter clip, the co. was able to sell 59,350
bales of wool last year, or 6213 more than
in the previous term. Notwithstanding the
brisker trading, and a better average price
per bale, the year’s gross profit fell away
£B5O, and exes, were cut back £5645:
Gross Profits Salaries Other
and Commissions, and Wages. Expenses.
1920.. £65,356 £20,245 £14,836
1921.. 45,514 18,917 15,079
1922.. 56,026 23,570 16,618
1923.. 57,731 22,449 17,441
1924.. 58,174 23,709 19,151
1925.. 74,946 27,678 25,592
1926.. 85,710 35,030 31,879
1927.. 92,223 34,685 37,147
1928.. 91,373 36,040 30,147
It suggests a change in the method of book-
keeping.
Of recent years the co. has gone deeper
into the pastoral finance business. Since
1923 £191,595 has been added to the book
value of advances, etc.—last year’s addition
was £68,577. To do this the board got in
£50,000 of new capital and tacked £140,973
on to the debts, now £229,591, of which
£120,400 is owing to the bank. This com-
parison of balance-sheet figures shows what
lias happened:—
1921. 1923. 1926. 1927. 1928.
&&£>£>£>
Capital . . 150,000 150,000 200,000 200,000 200,000
Liabilities 109,006 88,618 200,174 161,401 229,591
Property and
plant .. 82,197 87,002 98,988 105,295 119,111
Stock . . 4,682 3,309 20,881 10,620 11,256
Book debts 148,008 137,357 290,591 260,375 328,952
Cash, etc. 4,474 3,923 3,698 5,485 1,832
To ease the position and provide for further
expansion of the business the public is now
offered 100,000 new £1 shares at 21s. When
all the money on that lot is in paid capital
will be £300,000, and reserves will benefit by
£5OOO of share premiums, less selling charges,
including 4d. per share brokerage.
The bonus label attached to last year’s
distribution suggests that nothing better than
a 7 p.c. div. should be counted upon. On
the basis of figures at June 30 net tangible
funds will have to earn only 6.5 p.c. to pay
7 p.c. on a paid capital of £300,000. Actually
11.6 p.c. was netted on average funds last
year compared with 9.7 p.c. and 9.1 p.c.
in the two preceding terms. The premium
makes 7 p.c. on the new shares worth only a
shade over 6£ p.c. The backing, after allow-
ing for the present issue, amounts to 21s. 6d.
in net tangibles. The last recorded sale of
the old shares was at 235. 6d.
Sargents, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1918.. £15,791 10 p.c. = £10,624 £5,167 £22,892
1919.. 8,371 10 „ „ 10,624 20,639
Reserves capitalised, £25,000 .. 7 .n,
1920.. 25,251 p.c. = 15,156 10,095 ]
1921.. 20,079 10 „ „ 15,624 4,455 10,189
1922.. 26,566 124 „ „ 20,313 6,253 16,442
1923.. 16,728 10" „ „ 16,484 244 16,686
Profit on sale assets, £25,343 .. 42,029
1924.. 12,848 5 p.c. = 8,750 4,098 46,127
1925.. 34,328 15 „ „ 26,250 8,078 54,205
Profit on sale assets, £223 .. .. 64,428
1926. . 30,445 15 p.c. = 27,403 3,042 67,470
Profit on sale assets* £6550 .. .. 64,120
1927.. 38,859 15 p.c. = 32,686 6,173 70,293
Profit on sale assets, £6749 .. .. 77,042
1928.. 37,022 15 p.c. = 36,641 381 77,423
The volume of business last year was satis-
factory, and the outlo>ok for the current term
is good, says the chairman of this Sydney
and Melbourne catering business. However,
gross profit (£358,793) fell away £12,986,
but since the management was able to keep
a tight hold upon exes. (£321,770), which
were cut back £11,149, the shrinkage in the
net profit from trading was only £1837. The
final figure was 15.1 p.c. on average capital
compared with 17.8, 16.6 and 19.6 p.c. back
to 1925. Earnings will need to improve
if the generous 15 p.c. div. is to be main-
tained. That is disregarding unexplained
additions to the capital assets reserve, tq
which £6749 was added last year, making
it £38,915. This reserve has been built up
out of profits on the sale of freeholds over
the last five years. Over the same period
85.7 p.c. of net trading profits have been
distributed. All things considered, the
£77,423 of reserves visibly accumulated at
June 30 is not much of a buttress for the
£261,992 of paid capital; there is another
£29,674 at call. What amount is set aside
out of earnings to cover depreciation and
renewals —the latter is a particularly heavy
item —is not disclosed, but branches are re-
ported well maintained and the factory to
be an up-to-date establishment. The secu-
rity for the dividend, whatever the rate,
partly depends upon that. All that can be
said definitely is that thus far the providing
does not appear to have been short of actual
requirements.
Sargents has been a very successful co.
handling a difficult line of business. The
present co. started in 1909 with a paid capi-
tal of £BO,OOO, of which £45,000 represented
goodwill. In its first 13 years the co.
visibly accumulated £16,444 of reserves after
writing goodwill out of the accounts, hand-
ing out £25,000 of bonus scrip and paying a
steady 10 p.c., sweetened with an extra 2$
p.c. in 1920 and 1922. These results were
largely due to keen buying and alert super-
vision. There was slackness in 1923, when
a loss of £238 showed up in the December
half, and, for a while, the outlook was very
gloomy. Shareholders appointed a commit-
tee of investigation, changes were made and
savings effected. The recovery was aston-
ishing, and some attractive results have since
been won. But it is never safe to lose sight
of the fact that, while a business of this
sort is capable of making large profits, it
is also capable of making sudden reversals.
The dominating feature in balance-sheet
movements of recent years is the heavy
property purchases:—
1914. 1924. 1927. 1928.
Capital . . £lOO,OOO £175,000 £245,063 £261,992
Liabilities . . 55,842 82,646 409,595 336,201
Freeholds . . 49,975 128,550 621,097 543,470
Leaseholds . . 21,500 14,500 12,111 12,648
Plant, etc. . . 55,290 106,020 92,783 93,515
Stock.. .. 13,301 20,324 29,378 30,706
Cash, debtors
etc. . . 20,001 53,129 18,487 37,871
Premises present a difficult problem in the
teashop business. They must be in the
busiest centre, and that is where rentals
are highest. To overcome this difficulty and
protect its goodwill, Sargents, like many
other city traders, bought the freeholds.
These stood in the co.’s books at £128,550
four years ago; at the close of last accounts
the figure had mounted to £543,470. To
finance the big deals shareholders had put
up only £86,992 of new capital at June 30.
The board went outside for the balance,
which is mostly on mortgage. Last year
two properties were sold and another pur-
chased. That enabled £53,734 to be clipped
off the mortgage (£287,033), £11,139 off the-
overdraft (£22,887) and £8521 off. the
amount coming to trade creditors (£26,281).
Thus the excess of liabilities over the more
or less liquids, including stocks, was re-
duced by £94,106 to £267,624. There is, by
the way, a tidy inner reserve in the pro-
perty item, particularly in the co.’s Market-
street, Sydney, headquarters.
Since the books were ruled off the co.
has lost the A.J.C. catering contract for
Randwick. However, the board has no re-
grets, the chairman says, and further adds
that the contract contributed nothing to last
year’s div. On the market the paids are
priced 335., and for the contribs. (paid to 12s.
6d.) sellers ask 265. 6d., equal to 345. when
fully paid. At the lower price the return
is approximately 9 p.c. as long as the 15
p.c. div. continues. The backing for each
£1 paid capital is 255. lid. in net tangibles.
The Standard Fire and Marine Insurance
Co. (Maoriland).
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1918.. 12,934 13J p.c. = 5,000 7,934 194,797
1919.. 32,654 16* „ „ 12,500 20,154 214,951
Reserves capitalised, £25,000 .. 189,951
1920.. 39,803 13J p.c.= 13,750 26,053 216,004
1921.. 43,086 15 „ „ 15,000 28,086 244,090
1922.. 36,199 15 ~,,15,000 21,199 265,289
Taxation reserve taken in .. 10,000 275,289
1923.. 44,513 17i p.c.- 17,500 27,313 302,602
1924.. 46,097 224 „ ~22,500 23,597 326,199
Reserves capitalised, £50.000 . . 276,199
1925.. 50,419 15 p.c.= 22,500 27,919 304,118
1926.. 56,254 16J ~ ~ 25,000 31,254 335,372
1927.. 65,280 16| „ ~25,000 40,280 375,652
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 325,652
1928.. 46,301 124 p.c. =25,000 21,301 346,953
The baby of Maoriland’s four native in-
surance cos. —it can number only 52 years of
existence—has had rather a thin year,
measured by recent standards. Chairman
Edmond, in his speech to the shareholders,
blamed it all on to the “general and very
definite depression throughout the Common-
wealth and Dominion during the year.” But
the dividend on the shares is the same old
Is. 3d., though the rate, owing to a buckshee
addition to share capital of ss. a share last
year, has dropped from 16§ to 124 per cent.
As security for policy-holders there still
remains £BOO,OOO that can be called, and
reserves totalling £346,953. Profits for tin-
year are £19,579 below the previous year’s
tally, but after paying the usual div. £25,000
has been tucked away in reserve, and the
carry-over has been increased by close on
£14,000.
The business continues to expand, but it
has been a little more difficult to get, and
the payments to policy-holders were the
heaviest in the company’s experience.
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £49,004 £32,600 £15,033 66.5 p.c. 30.7 p.c.
1900.. 55,475 29,830 15,285 53.8 „ 27.6 „
1905.. 54,246 29,399 18,011 54.2 „ 33.2 „
1910.. 73,370 36,593 23,760 49.9., 32.4,.
1915.. 127,081 56,947 43,675 44.8 „ 34.3 „
1920.. 165,054 73,331 70,200 44.4 „ 42.5 „
1925.- 210,926 96.978 82,934 45.9 „ 39.3 „
1926.. 219,509 104,037 85,350 47.4 „ 38.9 „
1927.. 292,719 159,571 91,056 54.5 „ 31.1 „
1928.. 297,024 181,900 93,955 61.2 „ 31.3 „
The expenses rate has risen a very little,
but it has been a trying year and Standard
has been lucky to get off so lightly. An
extra expenditure of £2200 for an additional


A New BURROUGHS
BooßKeepmg Machine
n
m
mi
m
%
f
mm
am
m
: :■
s
r
f
■
m
«a»;
JV.
m
wm
■ I
. mm
Xamm
m
;
oms i
11
mm
m
m
gs?
9
This feature manes it possible for
this machine to do work that
formerly required two or more
operations. Figures automati-
cally accumulated or stored in the
extra set of adding wheels can be
subtotalled or totalled by the
operation of this lever.
Requires
Fewer Operations
THE New Burroughs Dupex-Subtractor
Automatic Bookkeeping Machine requires
fewer operations, saves time, prevents
errors and offers positive proofs of accuracy
such as have been hitherto unavailable in
machine bookkeeping. For Accounts payable
and Receivable, for Distribution, Stock
Records, Payroll, Banks, and a host of other
applications, the New Burroughs Duplex-
Subtractor affords new and greater savings.
Only a thorough demonstration can give you a
true picture of this machine’s value to you on
your own work. Write or call for more
information.
Sole Distributors :
IRA L. 8C A. C. BERK LTD
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
’Phones: PL 2671 (five lines).
Sydney
Melbourne
Adelaide
Brisbane
Hobart
Perth
Newcastle
Rockhampton
Auckland
Dunedin
Christchurch
Wfellin'T'nn
Adding
Bookkeeping Calculating


“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY”
FOR SEPTEMBER.
The Great Australian
Guide to Money-making
No Investor, Trustee or Business
Man can afford to be without it.
SEPTEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock -J- GP 4- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Perth. — Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Municipal Loans Negotiated. Geo. E. Dicken-
son, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant, Victoria Buildings,
Swanston Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
$ * *
Walter E. Cameron, 8.A., formerly Deputy Chief
Government Geologist, Queensland, late Economic
Mining Geologist, Federated Malay States Govern-
ment. Reports on Possibilities for Oil, Tin, etc
Address: Tatong, via Benalla, Vic. — Advt.
# ❖ *
Roma Mooga Oilfields, N.L. —Area selected by Dr.
Jensen, late Government Geologist. Two companies
drilling alongside, ss. shares; 6d. application, 6d.
allotment. For shares, apply Meudell, Oil Share-
broker, 135 William Street. Prospectus, Stringer
and Moore, Temple Court, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * *
An installation of Pioneer Wood Pipe provides foi
the years ahead as well as for immediate needs.
Full volume flow, unimpaired by age, is maintained,
for algae or sediment can find no foothold on the
smooth, inner bore; no corrosion nor tuberculation
occurs to choke down capacity; no damage from
frost or electrolysis need be feared. Write for latest
data book. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove,
N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
# ❖ # ❖
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* # *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
insure: with the
B
I
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
16 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in oil Suburban and Country Centres.
Who Will Manage Your Estate?
At all times when an individual is appointed as Executor or Trustee
the uncertainty of human life is present. Who is better qualified to
administer your Estate than the
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
It cannot die, travel or disappear; has had over 40 years’ experience
in the management of all classes of Estates, and offers as security the
whole of its capital and assets —over £1,000,000.
Our Explanatory Booklet will be
sent to you Post Free on Request.
DIRECTORS:
THOS. BUCKLAND F. N. YARWOOD O. E. FRIEND
JAMES MOIR (Chairman) Lt.-Col. T. F. RUTLEDGE
J. W. Barnes, Manager. E. V. T. Whittle, Asst. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Buriilary, Live stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation. etc., etc.
£4205 of premium income may look ex-
travagant, but it’s a case of an old dog
making his way along a hard road.
The only marked change in the investment
account is a jump in the valuation ot
premises, explained by new premises m Wel-
lington (M.L.) and the discharge of a mort-
gage on the Sydney building.
193 4. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Mortgages ..£115,965 £36,750 £35,950 £35.870
Debentures 58 719 77,889 95,734 95,027
War Loan 270 950 277,750 277,750
Premises 17,318 62,158 79,993 112,032
Cash.tf’c. .. 47,522 90,158 107.090 96,967
All the co.’s premises are now free of m-
cumbrance, and it may be guessed that then
booked value is well below actual market
price. Investments in mortgage's show only
a nominal fluctuation, so it may be assumed
that the Standard directors are getting out
of that class of business as speedily as
commitments will allow. Cash resources
have shrunk by £lO,OOO since last accounting,
but there are still over £500,000 of readily
liquidable assets, and the investmehts con-
tinue to produce nearly enough to pay the
annual dividend. Neither the shareholders
nor the policy-holders of Standard have
cause for insomnia.
Most of the details about Maoriland’s new
bank are wrapt in mystery, but tli e pro-
moters have satisfied a special Parliamentary
committee of the purity of their intentions
and a charter will be granted. All that
the common herd are allowed to know about
the new institution at this stage is that it
is to be styled the London and New Zealand
Bank. Ltd.; that its nominal capital is to
be £3,000,000: that it won’t start banking
until £1,000,000 of share capital is in hand,
and that the promoters —whose names are
not disclosed —are to receive 312 buckshee
shares as recompense for their labors. De-
nomination of shares is not stated. Evidence
tendered to the Parliamentary committee
came from Treasury oflicials, who didnt
oppose the granting of a charter, but said
it would hurt the Dominion’s credit if the
fledgling failed; from the chairman of the
Shareholders’ Association, who, of course,
heartily welcomed the fledgling, and from
various old retired bank managers of Scot-
tish extraction, who said bluntly that Maon-
land has already more banks than it re-
quires. Finance Minister Downie Stewart
threw a side-light on the situation by re-
marking that Maoriland not only has six
banks, but about 600 concerns that carry
on banking businesses, making advances and
accepting fixed deposits.
* *
It is authoritatively stated that the option
taken up by a Queensland mining man over
Mt. Morgan has been allowed to lapse. In
certain quarters little notice was taken ot
the preliminary announcements, but Rock-
hampton and district are badly disappointed.
Something like a 20 p.c. cut in mining costs
would be necessary to allow the Mount to
reopen and keep going successfully.
* * * *
Queensland Chief Geologist Dunstan, who
is going to Germany this week or next on
geophysical investigation, is also to investi-
gate zinc recovery methods in Belgium, lhis
probably has a connection with the large
deposits of zinc slag at Silver Spur (Q.),
where there is estimated to be 100,000 tons
of high content. Also, there are
said to be considerable unworked zinc ore re-
serves at the mine, and a geophysical test
for their extension is considered likely by the
Broughton Edge party or a private Llbot
group. The Public Works Commission has
been taking evidence on a proposal to give
railway communication to this field, once a
good producer.
A Brisbane syndicate is doing some in-
tensive boring for oil in the parish ot
Whithu near the Great Dividing Range, 25
miles north-east of Roma. The latest report
gave the depth reached as 430 feet, and Dr.
Jensen reported to the Roma-Mooga Co. that
on their adjoining lease they would need to
drill only to 1700 ft. compared with the
3700 ft. at which the gas and oil strata were
tapped in the Roma bore.
* * * *
W.A. Airways, Ltd., which is reputed to
have made money from the start, and whose
shares are tightly held, recently issued 89,430
new ordinary shares in order to finance the
new Perth-Adelaide air service. Perth
brokers were rushed with applications for
these shares, but outsiders were left lament-
ing. The original shareholders took up the
lot. * *
W.A. Manganese Co. is busy quarrying
rock in preparation for the construction
of storage bins and loading plant at Gerald-
ton, and is worrying the State Government
to complete the new harbor works and pro-
vide improved facilities for shipment from
that port. Three representatives of Japanese
iron and steel interests who recently visited
Westralia wmre given samples of the co. s
ore. As Japan uses a large quantity of
manganese ore annually the co. has hopes or
adding it to its list of prospective customers.
Swan Portland Cement Co. (W.A.) con-
tinues to prosper, and its ordinary snares
are tightly held. Div. for last half-year
was at the rate of 10 per cent, and it is
expected that the one for this half will be
the same. The co. obtains its product from
oyster shells dredged from the Swan.
* * * *
London-controlled Burbanks Mining Trust
Co. recently became interested in Pilbara
asbestos (W.A.), and Claude de Bernales lias
also acquired one or two apparently valuable
deposits, besides nibbling at others. He
hopes to induce some London moneyed men
to come in. To date about £BO,OOO worth
of asbestos has been obtained in Pilbara,
but production costs have militated against
the mining for this or any other mineral or
metal there. De Bernales reckons he can
overcome this.
* * * *
The latest resurrection on the Westralian
goldfields is the old Marvel Loch mine, near
Southern Cross, which years ago Adelaide
and Perth found for a time a good gambling
counter. Good returns were obtained from
shallow workings, but, as in other cases in
that part of the West, the Marvel Loch
became impoverished at depth. Now some
ground away from the old workings is being
prospected and a crushing is being raised.
* * , * *
Jim Ilebbard, formerly of Broken Hill, lias
been running the rule over the ore blocked
out and partly in sight in the old Edna May
Consolidated mine, Westonia (W.A.), on
which McCahon’s Gold Mines have a hold.
Ilebbard estimates that actual reserves are
16.000 tons and probable 8000 tons, tlie gross
value of the total being £120,000. He says
that costs of extraction, crushing and amal-
gamation shouldn’t exceed 80s. per ton, and
that on the treatment of 500 tons a month a
weekly return of £1250, less cost of develop-
ment, should be obtained. Something is also
said about new discoveries and highly pay-
able ore left by the old co. in the mine; but
as regards the deluge of water which exists
at a comparatively shallow depth on the
field Hebbard is strangely silent.
:jt * # *
The rich shoot in Chaffers (W.A.) which
caused Lake View and Stars to soar far
above their intrinsic level is still being
driven on at two or three deep levels, but
the distance opened up is well under 100 ft.,
and at one level it shows signs of petering
out. The shoot is being driven on from the
Golden Horseshoe workings, as at present
there is not a shaft deep enough in the
Chaffers to open it up from there.
* * * *
Cock’s Pioneer Gold and Tin Co., Eldo-
rado (Vic.), made a loss of £4554 for its
last half-year. That piled up the p. and 1,
debit to £20,363. Work was carried on in
the vicinity of the old mine workings; but
the ground ahead is virgin, and the manager
is looking forward to profitable returns from
better wash and cheaper costs.
H: ❖ * *
Treating low-grade wash after systematic
boring has become a considerable mining in-
dustrv in America, where placers are being
worked profitably on cent estimates. Close
attention is being paid to auriferous areas
where lode sources have been completely
denuded of their gold, which has been dis-
seminated through gravels. Where water
’ can be brought in freely these poor gravels
can be made to pay if in sufficient quantity.
New Guinea appears to contain much auri-
ferous alluvial, and the Yanks, having
noticed it, are not slow in getting after
it. The land of the head-hunters is also
blessed with unlimited water, and with
its aid they expect to recover much wealth.
But the preliminary tests are costly and
take time. Dacoto, the American engineer,
who, with Les Joubert as guide, has gone
up into the cannibal country for the Placer
Development people, expects to be at least
six months on a steady job before furnishing
an estimate of yardage values on the areas
under option; he will be assisted by several
whites and a team of colored men. When
that testing is finished the co. will know
what the leases are worth. Now that Clause
38a is abolished in New Guinea the. small
man is practically abolished, too.
* * * *
Adelaide Oil Exploration Co., Ltd., has
arranged to borrow from the Tasmanian
Government a Sullivan diamond drilling
rotary plant to bore for oil on a site ap-
proved by the State Director of Mines
between Northdown and Port Sorell. Some
years ago two bores were put down not
far from the western boundary of Port
Sorell, about half-way between Latrobe and
the sea to the north-west. The Mersey
Valley Oil Co. put down a hole under the
superintendence of Captain De Hautpick,
but at a shallow depth the drill struck the
top of a boss of diabase and drilling was
abandoned. The Adelaide Exploration Co.
made several shallow holes but apparently
they were too far from the sea coast. This
co. intends to import from U.S.A. a rotary
diamond-drilling plant capable of boring
5000 feet. It looks risky to use a rotary
drill in territory unknown geologically, in-
stead of the standard percussion drill always
used in other countries to carry out such
operations. + * m
Seymour Coal Mines, Ltd., got a good start
on taking over the colliery of the Seymour
Coal Pty., Ltd., on the east coast of the
Speck. A former co. left a brick-and-sand-
stone shaft which disclosed a seam at 35ft.
(but with a band), and a 6ft. 6in. seam of
clean coal at 165 ft. The new co. takes over
a vast timber belt which supplies all the
timber for the mine and the future jetty, in-
cluding the piles. The completion of a pier,
which is to cost £13,000 and will accommo-
date 4000-tonners, will be the last stage of
the scheme. Attention is being concentrated
on the second seam, which has a sandstone
roof and fireclay floor, and therefore is free
from dust, with barely any seepage. The
coal is hard, with no slack or clinker, and
little ash. An ultimate output of 1000 tons
a day is aimed at, and the co. reckons it can
compete with Newcastle.
* * * *
The argument as to the future of tin
still rages, and is made the more interest-
ing by reason of the fact that every expert
to express nn opinion contradicts his pre-
decessors. The “Wild Cat” has been steadily
of the opinion that there is no prospect of
the famine which so many predicted, be-
lieving that the wish was father to the
thought, since a metal shortage would mean
a rise in prices which would ease the pre-
dicament of many over-capitalised com-
panies and market supporters. Thisi opinion
has recently been echoed in London by
C. V. Thomas, chairman of Tronoh Mines,
a British-owned Malayan tin show which is
among the largest and most prosperous of
its kind in the world. Increased production
in the Malay States he regards as a cer-
tainty for this year and the next, at least,
lie said there were many factors affecting
the price of the metal which could only
be matters of conjecture. No one could say
whether there would be a decreased output
by the Chinese in Malaya or a falling off
in production in Nigeria and Bolivia.
Another factor was the extent to which the
present low price of tin would affect the
detinning plants, which had been able to
make good profits from their process when
the mined metal was more valuable. It
was a certainty in his opinion that con-
sumption of tin must steadily increase. The
alternation of periods of high and low tin
prices was an old experience. Most Aus-
tralians interested in the matter will agree
with Tronoh’s chairman as regards the
values cycle of tin. In 1922, the metal
went as low as £l4O, and by the middle of
1927 had climbed, with minor backslidings,
to far over £3OO. Now it is down within
reach of the £2OO mark.
* * * *
Selayang, which was passed on to an Eng-
lish corporation by F. G. Pratten and Mal-
colm Newman four years ago, is always late
with its returns, as far as Sydney, which
harbors a good few of its shareholders, is
concerned. The big dredge, as usual, got
nowhere near its estimated capacity of
150,000 yards per month in August; the 432
hours of work returned 21£ tons of t.o. from
74,200 yards turned over, the average being
,651 b. The recovery realised £2BOO, but
working costs were £2lOO, which didn’t leave
much return on £140,000 of capital—to say
nothing of other items.
* it * #
Ratrut Basin, which recovered 5 tons of
t.o. from 9000 c.y. in the short period the
new dredge was digging in August, when
the average for the small yardage was 1.241 b.,
has dug 5700 yards in 132 hours during the
early part of September for 5 tons of t. 0.,
which equals a trifle over 1.961 b. per yard.
The ground still continues bouldery, but an
improvement is expected as the dredge gets
forward. If that average can be maintained
in a big turnover, even the Basin’s big dead
horse should not long keep shareholders from
their sleep at nights.
* # * *
Puchong, Austral Malay’s fifth subsidiary,
was fonned as long ago as 1925, but owing
to various delays the assembling of the
dredge has just begun, starting with the
pontoon. A large quantity of material is
now on the ground, but it will be some time
before digging can commence. The dredge is
an ultra-modei-n electric plant of 190,000
c.y. capacity per month, and is equipped
with a device for passing the overburden,
which is 30 feet deep at Puchong, over the
back of the dredge and thus keeping it out
of the screens and boxeg, which means a
considerable saving in wear and tear. The
area is a large one, and the average con-
tent of a selected area of some 277 acres
is .721 b. of t-0.. with a lower average pre-
vailing in other sections. While a low-grade
area, Puchong, like all the other Austral
Malay shows, will probably turn out a steady
dividend-payer. Capital is £250,000, in £1
shares, all f.p.
* * * *
Takuapa’s new dredge, ordered in 1926 and
built by Poole and Steel, of Sydney, is ex-
pected to start digging about the time this
appears in print. An earlier beginning was
expected, but trouble with the electric drive
lias caused delay. The plant is expected to
turn over 160,000 c.y. per month at full
capacity, and should considerably augment
output, which has suffered on occasion by
the necessity for the single dredge to dig itself
into the river and back again. In these days
of low tin prices accelerated output is all-
important, and the double plant should con-
siderably reduce yardage costs. Takuapa has
averaged well over half a pound of t.o. per
yard for the last six months, the output dur-
ing that period being over 200 tons. With
the extra dredge the recoveries should be con-
siderably increased in volume. Even with two
dredges working, the property should last
out another 10 years.
* * * *
Darcy Hughes’s first report of Birch'Tin.
Ltd., operating on the Severn, near Stan-
thorpe (Q.), is pretty encouraging. Boulders
were a slug at first, but now an easy run
looks likely. The first run of 1000 jards
has yielded over 25001 b. of concentrates aver-
aging 2.51 b. to the yard. A bigger tonnage
is expected during September, as working
conditions have improved. Concentrates are
said to average over 70 p.c. Brisbane share-
holders are feeling hopeful after an unex-
pected delay of about six months in starting
dredging.


m
iw
il
w
%
n
%
W,
Wms'V'iMT!
AN
mms.
m
Plant your Acorn
Now and watch
it grow!
Mighty OaL
sjrorn
Little Acorns jorow
TWO SHILLINGS A DAY
Buys a
CHARMING HOMESITE
Let the money you would otherwise squander represent the
acorn. “Plant” it in one of the homesites shown below.
Follow up the first deposit with monthly instalments, which
average 2/- a day. As time passes, the land grows in value
and in the end is worth considerably more than you have
actually paid for it.
For giving absolute value in
land, Rickard’s stand alone.
Hereunder is a selection of splendid value lots, which may be
TORRENS TITLE
The coupon below will bring full particulars. Fill it in and post to us to-day.
ARTHUR RICKARD & CO. LTD
“The House of Ten Thousand Homesites,”
RICKARD HOUSE, 84 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 86491-2.
MOTOR TO INSPECT.
CARS LEAVE OUR HEAD
OFFICE EVERY DAY.
'Phone, write, or call, and let
us motor you to inspect, free
of obligation.
Please post me plans and particulars (without
obligation) of Letter advertised in The
Bulletin of 19/9/’2B.
NAME :
ADDRESS


THE ST. JAMES. 100 EXCLUSIVE FLATS.
Jl 1 Bedroom, Living Room, Kitchen, Bathroom and HalL
STANLEY STREET (off College Street), HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
Gas, Electric Light, Hot Water and Ice Supplies, FREE.
Our Guests’ amusement is regularly and gratuitously catered for in the Spacious Ball Room, Billiaid
Room and Roof Garden on the 12th Floor.
Dining Room, specialising in Continental Cooking.
Weekly Rentals, £4/9/6 (permanent) ; £5/9/6 (with service) for less than one month. Apartments
fully furnished. Unfurnished Apartments, £3/10/-
Telephones: F 1833 and F 3262.
Knitted Sports (garments
of Character
Decidedly Distinctive arc
“ Merino - Knit ” Sports
Sweaters and Cardigans
tot Men’s Wear. Beauti-
fully knit of finest wool,
“Merino-Knit” gives every
comfort in wear, besides
presenting strikingly origi-
nal effects for tennis and
other out-door sports, as
well as the quiet, exclusive
tonings so much desired
for business wear.
In Style, Shape and Finish
“Merino-Knit” Garments
are “Absolutely Right 1 ”
i
i i v «
'MERINO-KNIT'
Men’s Sweaters & Cardigans
Made Exclusively by the Merino Woollen Mills Pty. Ltd.,
Specialists in Men’s High Grade Sweaters and Cardigans,
Half Hose and Golf Hose.
ASK FOR “MERINO-KNIT,” THE SPORTS TDEAR OF QUALITY
(gmtf Austral Nu. 5 Art llutnu
(By Permission of the Attorney-General , N.S.W.
FOR THE
(JM&E
lERS
PROVIDENT
FUND
3
FIRST PRIZES
BUY ONLY THE PURPLE TICKET-ACCEPT NO OTHER
Trusted by the people aud with a reputation gained by the conduct of
our last four Art Unions, which paid full prize money and were drawn
to time, the limbless Soldiers will again keep faith.
The proceeds are in aid of the Provident Fund of the Limbless
Soldiers’ Association, and are invested at interest by Trustees to
provide for the old age of limbless returned men
TICKETS 1/
By Post
i/H
6 TICKETS 6/- POST FREE
O. BEYERS, Hon. Secretary, 19 Bligh Street, Sydney
HELP YOURSELF TO THE SUNSHINE OF LIFE-
SWEET MELODY MAKES HAPPY HOMES
Be Wise in Time —
Here’s Fun That
Builds a Future.
This Charming Picture of Musical home life
tells its own story.
TO THE AMBITIOUS MAN OR WOMAN.
This is an appeal. THINK OF IT! The
Picture here presented is a happy family group.
They were like you three to six months ago.
Not one of them played any one of these
Musical Instruments, except Piano. Now they
all play well for their own pleasure and
their friends. Their home life is wonderful,
and they are the most popular people in their
country district. Indeed, if necessary, they
could all obtain payable engagements, earning
big fees. The MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
were provided by ALBERTS, and, with the
aid of the finest and most successful progressive
Postal Course of Instruction, with every move-
ment profusely illustrated (in fact doing away
with all drudgery and simplifying the learning
of the SAXOPHONE by the most inexperi-
enced), the rest was easy.
No previous knowledge of music is necessary, and any’*
one can play the SAXOPHONE, or these other popu-
lar instruments, in a few weeks with ALBERT’S
WONDERFUL FREE POSTAL COURSE OF LES-
SONS, assisted by the expert ___
teaching staff of the
ALBERT COLLEGE OF
MUSIC.
The CONN SAXOPHONE is
one of the easiest instru-
ments in the world to learn.
The BANJO, TRUMPET,
CORNET or DRUMS—a
playing knowledge of these
is most simply and easily acquired,
playing can be made a valuable asset
and friends.
Your home
to yourselves
BANJOS—The popular all-round Instrument for
Pleasure and Profit—All kinds and types from
63/-, 105/-, 147/-
SAXOPHONES—The best-beloved of the Modern
Musicians, equally suitable for Home and Orchestra.
We stock the world’s best —CONN’S —from
£37/10/-, including case and all accessories.
r
K
J
ms
V
PARENTS! Keep your children happy and contented
in the Home. The Empty House is not the happy
Home. Form the HOME ORCHESTRA with
ALBERT’S POPULAR EASY-TO-PLAY INSTRU-
MENTS. This offers the
solution. What a wonder-
ful Education for SONS and
DAUGHTERS! What a
Gift when they go out into
the world as MEN and
WOMEN!
BUY a BANJO for Bill, a
SAXOPHONE for Charlie or
Stioie. fYes, Girls can play
them!) A TRUMPET or TROMBONE for Tom,'and
VIOLIN for Winnie, a set of DRUMS for Dick, and
see the difference in your Home life.
J. ALBERT & SON,
BOOMERANG HOUSE, MID KING STREET, SYDNEY.
MUSIC PUBLISHERS,
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT IMPORTERS,
TRUMPETS AND TROMBONES—Just the Best again—
CONN’S—at £27/10/-. with case. Other reliable
makes from £B/8/-
VIOLINS. Still very popular, and not so difficult as you
perhaps imagine, with our Modern Methods of Teaching.
Complete Outfits, in our famous Strad and Guarnerius
models, from 49/6, 90/-, 149/-
DRUMS—CONN DANCE OUTFITS are specialised, from
£l6- Others from as low as £3/3/-
MANDOUNS, from 35/-
BANJO-MANDOLINS, 50/-, 84/-, 105/-
In addition to the Instruments featured here, ALBERT’S
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS DEPT, carry ample stocks in
most varied range, of all Modem Musical Instruments,
all priced to suit your pocket and purpose.
You are cordially invited to ’phone M 4321, or write for
full particulars' of any Instrument in which you feel
interested.
Experts will select and test each Instrument on receipt
of remittance. If further particulars desired, a small
deposit will entitle you meanwhile to the FREE
LESSONS, and Instrument required will be held in reserve
for you.
All kinds of instruments repaired or exchanged. Why
keep one you don’t like if you can exchange it for
a Popular Instrument, easy to play?


'-'■-’"A.'-" '
■A i
L,J
/ V -""^/^XfWV
.....
\/
i (89
U
*"• i i
.'.. • -..- ... ' •—— '"— : 1
''-J
-
3^4
IS
‘7/s Quality Never Changes
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
<V
\<Z
It is only the purest tobacco wrapped
in snow-white paper without any
trimmings that has made The Greys
the Best Virginia Cigarette.
It’s the Tobacco that matters.
v¥
to+4
THE 100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTE
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO., LTD., Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co., Ltd.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Sea Nomad”: On calm, dark nights the
Coral Sea nurses living clouds of phosphorus,
some on the surface of the water, but mostly
in a mass of green illumination a few feet
below. Many fish in this, sea
seem to be able to flood them-
selves with phosphorescent light
at will. .Coral plants sometimes
appear’ to be lit up by soft green
electric lamps. In the jungles
of the North the ground at night
for perhaps an acre in extent
will seem to be dimly pulsing
light, and if the decaying leaves
are stirred they will almost
flame with crinkling phosphorus.
I have seen a rotted tree ablaze
with fairy lights, visible 200
yards away, as the result of
an intense accumulation of phos-
phoric fungus. Countless insects
are phosphoric. I have even seen a phos-
phoric snake —possibly its scales had col-
lects the phosphorus when crawling over
damp leaves.
* # #
“Sunny Hill”: The railway ganger at
Bunglegumbie grows the biggest parsnips
I have seen. He uses an eight-foot railway
drill to punch a hole down as far as it will
go, filling this with earth, and crumbled
manure from the cattle-trucks: then he
plants three parsnip seeds on top. When
the seeds germinate he removes two, leaving
only the most healthy plant. The parsnip
runs down the full depth of the hole, and
Mrs. Tripjack has a string tied on to lift
it, a bit at a time, and pare off enough for
dinner. In 192 G Ganger Tripjack had to rig
shearlegs over the hole to lift the parsnip
for her, but that was an exceptionally good
year.
“Kooragai”: I stayed a night at a place
in Kiama (N.S.W.), and the flopping and
squealing of flying-foxes around it were
worse than I ever heard in any other town.
Our hostess told me she had made curry of
the beasts, and liked it; but her husband
said the smell of the dashed things was
enough for him. The smell, the lady re-
torted, was only skin-deep when they were
feeding on fruits and ti-trcc flowers; when
they were banqueting on eucalyptus blossoms
they became too strongly impregnated Avith
the oil of the trees even for Binghi’s palate,
Binghi didn’t often tackle Wang Wauk,
but he had a cunning way of getting the
beastie. One night an old felloAV on the
Clarence came to us for “a small feller cross-
cut saAv.” He and his mates had cut partly
through some trees on a flying-fox camp, in
readiness for morning, when the pests had
returned from their marauding expeditions
HICSAMINATION.
“What’s your name?"
“John Jackson.”
“Your full name?”
“John (hie) Jack(hie)son.”
and were clustered thickly in the branches.
With the weighted tops, a few extra nicks
would bring the trees down, and Binghi
waddies would slaughter dozens of the sleepy
creatures before they could disentangle them-
selves. “But tomahawk make too much
noise an’ shake um tree,” he explained.
“Crosscut tsaw pfinish ’em better.”
ij: H: '\'
“Tahune”: The Tasmanian “tiger” (B.
15/8/’2B), or marsupial wolf, is not of much
value to the trapper as fur, but is a nuisance
to those who have a line of snares to look
over. Its last thought, apparently, when
caught up by a springer is of the hempen
noose, though its teeth are sharp enough for
anything. It will attack and rend all sticks
and scrub within reach, but will make no
effort to sever its tether. In similar circum-
stances the native and tiger cats show more
wisdom. It will be a long time before the
“tiger” is exterminated. The large area of
unexplored and inaccessible tracts in Tas ,
with plenty of food afoot, provides an excel-
lent asylum. .
* * * *
“Blue Mountains” : It was inevitable that
the ban placed on the importation of Alsa-
tian dogs by the Federal Government would
stir up some angry protests from fanciers
of the breed, but the following from the
Sydney Morning Herald (4/9/’2B) will
take a lot of beating:—
I challenge Mr. to produce a single pedigree
from any part of the world showing a wolf strain
[in an Alsatian]. I defy him or any other person
to indicate any introduction of wolf blood during the
last 15,000 years.
It’s a long way to go back for anyone’s
pedigree—ll,ooo years before Nineveh was
founded. And all the dogs in existence
nowadays are supposed to have descended
from four or five early-world types, of which
the wolf was certainly one...
* * # *
“Bill O’C.” : The little group in McGee’s
pub at Gonebung Plain were arming about
level country out back, when Whiplash broke
in scornfully: “You blokes ain’t never seen
real plains. Now out behind Moree it’s flat
if you like. On a clear day you kin stand on
the railway platform at Blackdust and see
the signboard o’ Cleary’s Hotel out on the
Barwon, 90 mile away, plain as .”
“But that’s impossible,” said the school in-
spector. “The convexity of the earth alone
would prevent it.” “But I tell yer,” retorted
Whiplash with emphasis, “there ain’t any
convexery. It’s flat!”
* * * *
“E.S.” : Tommy Tank wanted a job, and
met Squatter Jumbuk as that gentleman
drove up to the post office. “I hear you're
lookin’ for a man, Mr. Jumbuk,” he Said
deferentially. The squatter surveyed him
critically for a moment. “You’re not the sort
of man I’m looking for, Tank,” he replied
coldly. Tank was annoyed at his manner,
and in turn he eyed the squatter slowly up
and down. "You re right, Jumbuk, he re-
joined AA r ithout any deference whatever. “Now
I come to observe you closely, I can see
you’re not the sort o’ boss I’m lookin’ for.”
The squatter left his horse standing in front
of the post office Avhile he went to the store,
and in a devil-may-care manner Tommy
hopped into the saddle and rode off to see
Job Splinter, a neighboring squatter. He
took care that Job didn’t see him on the
horse. After an interview, which put him on
Job’s pay-book as a rouseabout, he turned
the animal round at the boundary and set
it jogging off home. “You took a risk.
Tommy,” said a mate afterwards. “So did
Jumbuk,” answered Tommy. “If he’d been
civil to me I wouldn’t ’ave took tbe loan of
his horse.”
* *
“C.” : Amongst my Black Orpington liens
was a bird which, over a period of two
years, was a splendid layer. Then, after
moulting, she developed masculine tenden-
cies and grew a rooster’s tail and spurs.
She even began to pick quarrels with
roosters and at times attempted to crow.
The axe ended her career. A poultry-
farmer has since informed me that it is
not uncommon for a hen to change sex.
* * =l= *
“Pfella”: After a fruitless search for a
quantity of stolen goods in a vast Groper-
land nor’-west district, my abo.-tracker
Sammy and I returned with the empty
spring-cart to our camp. It was at that time
of the year after the rainy season when the
sun had baked the red earth as hard as a
rock, with not a speck of dust to be raised.
Along came a fierce little whirlwind. Its
roar could be heard, but in the level, tree-
less country it couldn’t be seen. Sammy
had unharnessed and left the spring-cart out
in the open. All of a sudden it jerked round
erratically and began circling backward as
if possessed of life. Bound and round it
blundered, caught in the outer rings of the
whirlie. Sammy held his sides laughing.
“Go’-bye, old spring-cart.” he roared. "Yon
never bin any good, anyway.” When I
made him go and rescue Government pro-
perty, he did so very disgustedly. He loved
horse-riding, but spring-carting cramped his
style.
* * * *
“Shep”: The Papuan doesn’t understand
the use of diaries, but he believes in re-
cording notable incidents in his life. Stored
in the men’s huge communal huts are narrow
wooden slabs up to six feet in length,
elaborately carved with the. totem design of
the tribe, each recording the achievements
in life of its owner, such as the launching
of a canoe or the building of a home. The
birth of each child means the addition of
another slab to the collection. Some tribes
preferred a living record. After a victory
in tribal warfare a native of this persuasion
would record the event on the body of one
of his children. A deep cut a couple of inches
in length was made, most frequently near
the shoulder-blades. The edges of the wound
were constantly irritated until a roll of proud
flesh formed, which would make a permanent
memento. As a child grew this record of
his father’s achievement, in the case of a
boy, would be an incentive to him in battle,
and in the case of a girl would be an inter-
esting and honorable asset when she entered
her courting days.
(Continued on page 25A
SNAKESKIN SAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Once I’d a mate down on Lonesome Creek,
Camped a time at the Twelve-mile Dam;
Good old sort who could yarn a week,
Known by the name o’ Snakeskin Sam.
Belt was a pelt of a carpet-snake,
Band of his hat was much the same,
Pouch of a similar reptile make—
That was the why of Samuel’s name.
Gentle an’ jocular, that was his style;
Soulfully sensitive bloke was Sam;
li’member one flood when he swum a mile,
At night, to rescue one bleatin’ lamb.
Boundary-ridin’ o’er hill an’ lea,
Roundin’ up woollies from morn to night;
That was his job till the cry o’er sea
Called him away to the world’s big fight.
Staggered me some when he rode up here,
Khaki-clad—which I thought was sham,
For motherin’ lambs was his proper sphere,
So tender-hearted was Snakeskin Sam.
Part of his bundle he left with me,
Sort of a fantod souvenir;
Snakeskin whip an’ a puggaree,
Serpent bridles an’ other gear.
I cheered him away, but I wondered liow
He’d shape with the steel as I said good-
bye.
Heard of him next on a camel cow,
Ridin the bound’ry of old Sinai,
Musterin’ Abdul on desert runs,
Drovin’ Turks o’er the thirsty sand ;
Turnin’ a grin to the barkin’ guns,
Givin’ his drink to the captive band.
IT FELT JUST THE SAME.
“Why were yer so bloomin’ nice to ’im after he knocked yer down?”
"Well, I wouldna been, only I thought I was ’ome with the missus.”
That was his limit, I used to think,
When he’d been months in the firin’line,
An’ never a pen ’ad he dipped in ink—
But I ’ad misjudged that old mate o’ mine,
For Sam, I’d learned, was a demon loose
Out on the warpath, cool an’ grim,
Bootin’ ’em out of a strong caboose,
Bullet an’ bay’net the same to him.
Couldn't be held when a scrap begun,
Over an’ at ’em with thrust an’ clout;
Couldn’t be stopped with a Gatlin’ gun,
Never cried go till he’d cleared 'em out.
That was the way from the desert rim,
Out of the trench an’ the battle reek.
Mates who had ridden an’ fought with him
Wrote of the Terror from Lonesome Creek.
Well he surprised me, that’s all I can say;
Shut me right up: but it’s proud I am,
An' I hope to be ridin’ again some day
Round the old fences with Corporal Sam.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


IPL
CH
IP
o
►
*
T
c
wWvWWWWK
Chrysler “62” Tourer
WHEN a product like Chrysler leaps
into prominence almost overnight
and continues growing in public favor
month after month and year after year,
it must offer unique qualities and values*
The fact is, people are recognising more
and more how Chrysler engineering and
manufacturing constantly show the way,
how refinements and improvements for
the very finest Chryslers are passed on,
through the principle of Standardised
Quality, to the Chryslers of lesser price.
For example, in the six-cylinder field,
they realise that Chrysler is enabled to
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
V.S.W.: Larke Neave d Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street,
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne,
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide,
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Welhn&tonj
FOUR GREAT CARS
IN 4 GREAT PRICE FIELDS
CHRYSLER 52'G1'71'I00/I.P. Imperial 80
40 BODY STYLES
pass on to the “62” and "7 2” such epochal
refinements as rubber shock insulators,
7-bearing crankshaft, invar'Strut pistons
with tungtite rings, 4'wheel hydraulic
brakes—to mention only a few of several
score —pioneered for the superfine and
luxurious 100 h. p. Imperial “80*”
The way Chrysler sales keep climbing,
always climbing—from 27th to 3rd place
in 42 months—reflects the realisation of
motor car buyers that Chrysler manufac-
turing and engineering offer quality and
value in every price field that no other
car approaches.


Have you tried,
333
with the, NEW
PERFECTED
IVORY TIPS-
Sl0TE fiiPRJSSS
333
CIGARETTES
777
Plain or IVORY Tipped.
Cork Tipped.
20 for 1/6
ARDATH
TOBACCO
CO., LTD.,
LONDON.
“Sea Nomad”: Sparta’s national training
was not more severe than that of the Torres
Strait natives. Lads at an early age com-
menced a most rigid course intended to make
them almost immune to hardship and pain,
and to fit them to become defenders of their
country and worthy tribesmen. Every in-
habited island in the Strait had its lewod,
or training camp. Some had as many as
eight. They wei-e generally secreted in almost
inaccessible spots among the hills or swamps,
and some were also fenced around with
palisades. Once within that grim enclosure,
a lad might not see his parents again until
he was a young man, perhaps nevci-, as
some of the rites were vei-y strict and
cruel, and the penalty for cowardice was
often death.
* :|s * *
“Gundy”: Although more of a wrestler
than a boxer, the male duck is a surprise-
packet when it comes to an argument. At
a farm where I week-ended I saw an Indian-
runner drake in holds with a gobbler. The
drake was getting a boisterous time when
the farmer’s wife, fearing to lose a valuable
BREAKING THE NEWS.
MRS. MAGGS: “I s’pose it’s ’ard t' realise that your ’usband’s dead?”
MRS. LAGGS ( ex-fireman’s wife) : “Yes. I couldn’t half believe it even when the Capt’in
called and said, ‘Well, Mrs. Laggs, Bill’s gorn to ’is larst fire.’”
bird, ordered her boys to separate the
combatants. They did so rather unwillingly,
and later on incited a renewal of hostili-
ties by driving the turkeys down to the
dam where the ducks were paddling. The
drake, undaunted, again threw down the
gage of battle, and again got the worst of
the opening exchanges. But, using his head
well, he weaved in, got a firm grip of his
big adversary, and backed him towards the
edge of the dam. A sharp tussle ended
with both brawlers in (lie water, whore the
contest became altogether one-sided. The
boys had to interfere again, this time on
behalf of the turkey, who spent a wretched
day trying to dry himself.
* * ❖ ❖
“Pickajinnie”: A West Queensland medi-
coe’s wife has a unique pet—a cream-colored
opossum, so tame
that it will climb
up the doctor's
trousered leg and
perch o n h i s
shoulder. There it
will eat anything—
it often has a shot
at eating pills. One
o f “Phosphie’s”
star turns is to
jump on the dining-
room table and, sit-
ting up on its hind
legs, daintily pick
out the choicest
bloom from a cut-
glass bowl and de-
vour the petals, its
beady little eyes and
ears alert to detect
any spoilsport. It’s
not an albino; the
eyes are dark brown.
“Up North”: The bird season is Binghi’s
Christmas. In the scrub and plain country
he goes in for the henfruit of hawks, cocka-
toos, tux-keys, emus, pigeons and xnallee hens;
the lagoon men have duck, wild goose, crane,
swan and egret, and the coastal boys’ special
dainties are ci-ocodiles’ and turtles’ eggs.
Lizards’ and ants’ eggs help the menu of all.
In the big tropical swamps the waterfowl lay
so profusely that even abos. become sati-
ated. Cooking is almost universally done by
simply roasting on hot ashes, the eggs beiiig
deftly spun in the air now' and then to mix
the contents and ensure an even cooking. The
larger eggs receive many shakings and turn-
ings. A flash buck, given an audience of
admiring young gins, will squat by the fire
and spin the eggs like a Cinquevalli. Boiling
is seldom resorted to by w-ild tribes, who
rather despise this “white-pfeller” method of
cooking.
* * * *
“Pick”: In seeking sound trees for saw-
milling or splitting, the woodcutter may
glean useful forehand knowledge from the
common black ant. Ants for choice make
their homes inside a piped tree, but when
such is not liaudy they nest in the dry
knots protruding from sound barrels. Their
presence there indicates that the timber is
good throughout; no termites will be found
in the tree that harbors a black-ant colony.
In climbing trees, ants follow grain de-
pressions in the bark, and their track
shows whether the trunk is curly-grained
or a straight free-splitter. When they are
found clustering thickly among the twigs
and leaves the tree is afflicted with aphis,
or is otherwise diseased; the wood will then
be tough and dozy to cut or split.
* * * *
“Up Top”: Despite their sharp eyes and
good bushmanship, aboriginals have seldom
figured in our mining history. In Victoria’s
early rushes a black stockman “specked” a
£4OOO specimen for his squatter boss, and
Ernest Henry the discoverer of Cloneurry,
A CRY TO THE SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
“Exchange, urgent! One brand-new tractor for good team of horses.”
made use of the natives by training them to
locate outcropping copper-ore. But I believe
our only genuine abo. prospector was Pluto,
who located Plutoville, on the Batavia River
(N.Q.), which yielded many nuggets, and
Chock-a-block, also on the Batavia. Nuggets
from this area ranged up to 120 oz. Pluto
died in 1916. He was kept in tucker for
years by H. Wade Robinson, a telegraph
officer, who was a good friend to northern
prospectors. Robinson was a Norfolk Island
man, descended from one of the Bounty
mutineers.
* * $ *
“Toheroa”: One of the mysteries of Maori-
land fish life is the run of whitebait up the
Waikato River, a phenomenon that has been
delayed, evidently by flood waters, this year,
causing anxiety to the folk who depend on
the industry’s brief season for an important
part of their year’s income. When the river
clears the whitebait will make their annual
progress up the Waikato for over 50 miles,
setting the canneries at work and putting
whitebait on the menu of every hotel and
eating-house in the province. Just when the
run will take place nobody can predict, but
the Maoris declare the new moon has much
to do with it. The whitebait go up the river
in incalculable millions. Never in any re-
cognisable or remotely connectable form do
they come down or show up in any way
again, though vast quantities must escape the
nets.
* * # *
“E.S.”: The memory of R. J. Cooper, one
of the notables of North Australia, is cur-
iously perpetuated by a worn-out Martini-
Henry rifle that has been given a place in
the Adelaide Museum. With that weapon
he claimed to have shot 20,000 buffaloes
during 21 years’ continuous residence in the
northern lands. He began as a hunter there
about 50 years ago, when the country was
mostly wild blacks and buffaloes. His later
activities were principally confined to Mel-
ville Island, which was for a long time the
home of Australia’s “Buffalo Bill,” E. C.
Robinson.
* * * *
“Animbra”: To use a watch as a com-
pass, it is placed on the ground in
such a position that a wooden match stand-
ing perpendicularly in the ground will throw
its shadow along the line from XII to VI.
A line drawn from the centre of the watch
bisecting the arc from XII to the tip of the
hour-hand shows north.
“Bad Australian : Huffin-Guffin (B.
29/8/’2B) is talking through his hat when he
affirms that bush-fires in heavily-timbered
country nearly always run through the tops
of the trees, the undergrowth and grass being
ignited by burning bark and leaves from the
roaring inferno up aloft I have done my bit.
at dozens of bush-fires m the heavi y- imbeiei
mountainous districts of Victoria, but 1
never saw a fire run in the tops ot green
timber. The fire usually made a clean sweep
of the grass bracken and undergrowth, the
leaves of the big timber being merely
scorched. A fire will burn readily enough
in the tops of a growing pine forest s but my
experience leads me to believe that it is
impossible for any fire to run through the
tops of green eucalypts, except where the
foliage is subjected to the draught caused by
the incineration of a dense and luxuriant
undergrowth.
'i* 'J' -!*
“Boronia”: What does “combo” really
mean? Bulletin artists have employed it.
as a name for Black Brother. But in West-
ralia a “combo” is a degraded white who
lives with native women.
* =l-- * *
“Larrapinta”: Those North Queensland
gougers mentioned by “B-Gar” (B. l/8/’2B)
are evidently a different breed from the pros-
l’ve met in the Macdonnell Ranges
and Westralia. With the exception of a
few surly hatters, all the men I met in those
parts were only too eager to have a trust-
worthy mate, and for a good reason, too. A
man living on his own, miles from help, is
in a poor way in the event of an accident or
sickness.
* * $ *
“The Bat”: Ned the dogger sidled up to
the crowd in Ryan’s bar and, pulling a dried
dog-scalp from his bag, disclosed his griev-
ance. “Went into the other pub,” he grum-
bled, “and when I passed this ’ere scalp
over the bar ter Scott fer a bottle er whisky
he turns ter me an’ says. ‘That ain’t a dingo
scalp at all; it’s somebody’s sheep-dog you’ve
poisoned.’ I called him a blanky liar; any-
body can see it ain’t a sheep-dog’s scalp at
all.” “It don’t look like a dingo scalp,
either,” interjected Ryan, coming from be-
hind his bar to inspect the exhibit. “I
know it don’t an’ it ain’t; it’s one of Scott’s
own cattle-dogs what I shot fer chasin’
horses, an’ the fool don’t know it. Is it
v'orth a round, Ryan?” Ryan reckoned it
was, and I left the patrons of the establish-
ment drinking confusion to horse-chasers.
;Jc $ *
“Bun”: According to Darwin, character-
istics acquired during the lifetime of a parent
cannot be transmitted to offspring. Well,
what about our cat Maria? A little while
ago the wind blew a door shut as Maria was
passing and docked half her tail. The other
morning she presented us with five kittens.
Three of them have short tails and two have
long.
HERE'S LUCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The blokes a fellow drinks with, they pass
beyond liis ken,
They take the tracks that call them, and
few- return again.
Some make a lucky landfall, some battle in
the ruck,
And most forget a fellow; but anyway,
"llei-e’s luck!”
The blokes a fellow drinks with, they are
not very wise,
And few are good at telling their alcoholic
lies,
And swift their boasting wearies, and sense-
less is their noise,
And futile is their raving, and barren seem
their joys.
The blokes a fellow drinks with, he seldom
sees them more,
Some leave a song or story, and some an
unpaid score.
They pass iuto the darkness; night swallows
them —and yet
There’s some you may remember, though
more you will forget.
The blokes a fellow drinks with ! The
memories soon pass;
The bar is growing empty; the dregs are
in the glass.
One more before we finish; we’ll fill them up,
and then
We’ll drink to those we’ve drunk with who
shall not di-ink again.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
• • J^ ie service is entirely free. AH you have to do is to attach the coupon -from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Headers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
.To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on onlv one subject at
a time.
Wants.
Bank manager, retired, in good health, 44
years’ experience, desires a position in Syd-
ney.—6448.
University graduate, Sydney, wants inter-
esting work; full or half-time position. Know-
ledge of French, typewriting, shorthand and
elementary book-keeping.—6441.
Shearing expert, present doing run of west-
ern N.S.W. sheds, wants work, late shed,
early Nov.; first-class references. —6464.
Qualified chemist (38), desires to inter-
view another (not necessarily registered),
view opening or purchasing pharmacy in
country or suburbs, N.S.W.-—6469.
Masonic brother (28), Sydney, wants
work, drive car, anything, go anywhere, good
education.—6407.
Carpenter and joiner, Melbourne, wants
work, shop or office fittings, anything, any-
where. —6434.
Young man, violinist, would like to prac-
tise individual compositions with young lady
pianist, Sydney.—6416.
Gentleman, 43, married, seeks sound open-
ing, with or without investment, £500 or £600
capital, anywhere. Extensive knowledge
accountancy, storekeeping, manufacturing
and agricultural activities.—6398.
Gentleman with small capital for sound
scheme in stock business.—6432.
To sell commercial art course, cost £9 9s..
for 35s., or will exchange for course in short-
story writing.—6423.
Whereabouts of Tom Smith, of Gloucester-
shire (Eng.), was farmer Q’land 20 years
ago. Brother-in-law inquiring. (To C.
Bramble, Tennyson-avcnue, Turramurra,
N.S.W.)
Rules and regulations suitable for use in
connection with a country-town memorial
hall.—6455.
To borrow, hire or buy copy “Australian
and New Zealand Writers’ and Artists’ Year
Book.”—6470.
To buy copy of “The History of Botany
Bay,” published by The Bulletin, 188S.—
6435.
To sell complete edition (2 vols.) of “Aus-
tralian Encyclopaedia” ; £3. —6400.
To . purchase “Psychology of Sex,” by
Havelock Ellis.—6408.
Words of a poem written for London
Daily Mail on the signing of the armistice
with Turkey; it begins “When the fleets
pass by with their engines throbbing slow.”—
6392.
Whereabouts of Eliza Florence Jenkins,
believed to be now married and keeping hotel,
N.S.W. Brother inquiring.—6393.
Lonely bush worker would be pleased to
receive from Bulletin readers suitable read-
ing matter. (To M. O. Montgomery, Rifle
Creek Dam, via Duchess, Q’land.)
Name and address of any farmer who has
successfully experimented in making silage by
mowing the green stuff and pressing immedi-
ately in an ordinary hay-baler.—6421.
To sell 10 copies of Art in Australia
(Nos. 2 to 11, first series) for £7.—6427.
To exchange N.Z. stamps, early issues, for
those of Australian or British Islands in
Pacific. Samples posted.—6391.
Information Sought.
Names of four Sydney sheep-shearing con-
tractors? —6443.
Federal Pastoral Shearing Co., 245 George-
street; Graziers’ Co-op. Shearing Co., Ltd.,
23 Macquarie-place ; Ii. A. Rooney and Co.,
Ltd., 8 Spring-street ; and Merriwa Contract
Co., Ltd., 255a George-street.
A good filling and a method of French-
polishing silky-oak. —6410.
For filling, rub in wet plaster of paris,
and rub off surplus before it sets. Rub in
raw linseed oil, as much as the wood will
take. Polish with brown shellac and methy-
lated spirits mixed to a thin paste, and apply
with a ball of cotton wool wrapped in a piece
of stout linen, renewing linen when worn.
Apply several coats, sandpapering surface
between coats to secure perfect smoothness.
Finish off with a few drops of linseed oil.
Success depends on thoroughness and fric-
tion.
(1) What prospects are there for sheep
farming in South Africa? (2) Would produc-
tion costs he less than in Australia? (3)
To whom should I write for particulars con-
cerning taking up Government land and for
other information? (4) What capital would
he necessary for an Australian proceeding
there? —6378.
(1) Land values have risen considerably
in South Africa, and although established
graziers are finding things comfortable, a
newcomer would not find them so bright.
(2) While wages, freight rates, etc., are
lower there than in Australia, pests are more
prevalent and dipping has to be frequently
carried out. (3) Under-Secretary, Dept, of
Lands, Pretoria, South Africa; Id. Ewen
Hays, Durban, S.A.; and the Managing
Director, Boere-Saamwerk, Beperk, Grahams-
town-road, Port Elizabeth, S.A. 1 4) A
new man would need £3000 to £5000.
Is there a firm, in Sydney that turns suits,
and can it he done satisfactorily? —6314.
There is no firm in Sydney that special-
ises in turning suits, though there is in
London. The cost of re-making and the
preparation, necessary before the suit could
be turned would amount to as much as, or
more than, a well-tailored suit. Much de-
pends upon the condition of the suit, and the
class of material as to whether it could be
turned satisfactorily. Turning needs expert
skill.
(1) Is the breeding of rabbits permitted
in any of the Australian States? (2) Can
you recommend a book on the breeding of
rabbits, curing and preparation of skins?
(3) Is there a steady demand for skins? (4)
What price is paid for first-class skins ?• —
6262.
(1) No. (2) The College of Agriculture,
University of California, Berkeley, Cal.,
U.S.A., issues admirable pamphlets upon the
subject, and you could obtain them at a
small cost. (3) Yes. (4) It depends upon
the weight of the skins, the price being at so
much per pound. The ruling price at present
is 3s. lOd. to 4s. sd. per pound.
I have a 12 -h.p. twin-cylinder steam engine.
(1) Is there any way I could test the pres-
sure at which it. would be safe to work the
engine? (2) The engine has been fixed to
blow off from the front safety valve at 60 lb.
pressure; if it had all new tubes in it would
it be all right to alter this pressure to
100?/)? (3) Is there any real danger in
working an engine at its full pressure, with
steam escaping from the safety valve? —6370.
(1) Only a qualified and certificated boiler-
inspector could fix the working pressure. (2)
Definitely, no. (3) No, provided the safety
valve has not been tampered with and is
in proper working order. But we would
advise you not to touch the boiler at all. A
boiler in indifferent condition is dangerous
to monkey with. We would suggest that you
get in touch with Mr. Lawson, Q'land In-
surance Cos., Sydney, and ask him to send
one of his inspectors to see it.
I am suffering from singing in the ears.
I have difficulty in going to sleep. Cause
and cure? —6oß4.
The causes of this complaint are mani-
fold. Put hydrogen peroxide in the ear,
let it stay there for a few minutes, then
wash out well with hot water. Repeat this
three times a day for two days. If there is
no improvement after this treatment, ask
your doctor whether he thinks it necessary
for you to consult an car specialist.
Can you recommend two good textbooks
dealing with petroleum, its occurrence, pro-
duction, manufacture and uses? —6231.
“Petroleum,” by Sir Boverton Redwood,
3 vols. (Chas. Griffin and Cos., London) ;
“Handbook of Petroleum Industry,” by
David T. Day (John Wiley and Sons, New
York).
How is it possible to become an officer in
any large shipping co. trading between Aus-
tralia and England, and what are the pro-
spects?—6269.
By serving an apprenticeship of four years,
at the end of which you would have to sit
for your second mate’s certificate. This
obtained, you would be appointed a junior
officer, and would have to sit later for
first mate’s and master’s certificates. Be-
fore acceptance as an apprentice, however,
you would have to pass a strict medical ex-
amination. Prospects depend upon the merit
and ability of the person concerned. The
Commonwealth and Dominion Line, Ltd., 1
Bent-street, Sydney, will be pleased to advise
you further.
Where is Rita Island and what is chiefly
raised there? —6116.
(1) Rita Island is situated at the mouth
of the Burdekin River, about eight miles east
from the town, of Ayr (Q.) ; area is about
37,640 acres. (2) Cane sugar.
A fence dividing my property from the
next block requires renewal. I have offered
in vain to share the cost of anew fence;
the other man wants to recondition the old
fence. Can he interfere without my permis-
sion?— 6369.
No ; he can’t. If he wishes to repair the
fence h e may service a notice on you, and
if any difference arises between you as to
the sufficiency of the existing fence it may
be referred to arbitration. The cost of
repair is shared between you.
I bought a block of land in a subdivision
and paid for it 18 months ago. I have
asked * the vendors’ solicitors repeatedly for
the title but they put me- off with excuses.
(1) Am I entitled to get a title free of
solicitors’ and other expenses? (2) Would
it be advisable to bring the matter before
the Eaw Institute if I get no satisfaction
within the next three months?— s932.
(1) If the conditions of sale promised
you a free title,” yes; if not you must
pay the costs of transfer and employ a
solicitor of your own. (2) You have no
right of action against the vendors’ solici-
tors. You should write to the vendors,
mid if satisfaction is not forthcoming place
the matter in the hands of your own
solicitor.
I have a room which was painted and is
now smoked almost black. Before repaint-
ing will I have to do something to the walls
first, or will the paint be sufficient ? (2)
llow much paint will I need? The dimen-
sions are 13 ft. x 13 ft. x 10 ft. —5900.
(1) Scrub the walls and ceiling with warm
water and soap, and wash down with clean
warm water to remove all traces of soap.
There is oil in smoke-grime which prevents
paint drying. (2) Approximately Jgal. for
each coat.
1 am a marine engineer engaged in the
interstate trade, with my home in Sydney.
Am 1 liable for Queensland State income-
tax?—s979.
Yes, in respect of income earned in Queens-
land waters.
(1) Have applicants for positions in the
Commonwealth Lighthouse Service to pass
an exam.? (2) What qualifications are
necessary? (3) Salary payable? (4) To
whom should applications be addressed? (5)
Have returned soldiers preference? —62B2.
(I'* No - (2) Knowledge of flag signalling
and Morse code for night signalling; boat-
ing experience. Applicants must have served
.at sea in the capacity of able seaman or
have been employed on lighthouse duties. (3)
Lightkeeper, £242 to £266 per annum, with
annual increments of £S. Head keeper,
£290 to £314 per annum, with annual in-
crements of £l2. (4) To Deputy-Director,
Navigation and Lighthouses, Customs House,
Sydney. (5) Yes.
Is it a fact that between 10 to 20 years
ago the name given to a cottage was ivrittcn
on its title deeds, and that the name could
not he changed without the expense of hav-
ing it altered on the deeds?— 6ol4.
No. You could change the name as
often as you liked, but would be under no
legal obligation to register the change.
(1) What is the amount of the prize in
the best religious novel competition being
conducted by llodder and Stoughton? (2)
What is Ilodder and Stoughton’s definition
of a religious novel? (3) Where are full
particulars obtainable? —6288.
(1) £IOOO, representing a payment in
advance of royalties. (2) The publishers’
intention is that the term be given the widest
possible interpretation. The two essentials
are that the novel shall have a strong
story and that it shall deal in any way to
any purpose with religious thought and con-
viction, and the effects of religion on human
character and conduct. (3) From Ilodder
and Stoughton, St. Paul’s House, Warwick
Square, London, E.C.4.
Why was the jury system abolished (ex-
cept for murder) at Darwin? —5690.
It was thought that the system in force
was not suited to N.T. conditions,, The abo-
lition of trial by jury applies only to
offences against N.T. laws, and does not
apply to offences against Commonwealth
laws or those punishable by death.
I have some well-cured hams. How can
I keep them through the hot weather so that
they will not become too hard? —6305.
If cold storage is not available, make a
thick paste of flour and water, and cover
the hams with a coating at least a half-inch
thick. Lay on floured paper to dry in an
airy place, and hang up. The paste will
set hard, and may be soaked or chipped off.
What really occurs when a loan is raised
by Australia, say, in United States? Does
Australia receive gold, or must she import
United States goods to Australia? —6362.
AVe could get gold but we don’t. On the
other hand it doesn’t necessarily follow that
we take U.S. goods. Thus, suppose we owe
London a million and borrow a million in
America. America, instead of sending the mil-
lion across to London, says “You owe us a
million—we’ll reduce your debt to us by that
much.” Thus the loan may be
used to pay a debt (for goods or interest)
in any part of the world.
Was Jesus the only one to be actually
nailed to the cross? Were others merely
tied up and alloired to perish through expo-
sure and exhaustion? If so, how long did
the torture last? —6333.
The nailing of criminals to a cross was a
common Roman form of punishment, and
was widely employed in ancient times. There
was a method by which criminals were
bound or impaled upon- an upright. The
torture would last until death released the
victim, but as crucifixion was generally pre-
ceded by a flagellation of awful severity
death was probably a matter of a few hours.
You’ll find all the horrible details in the
“Encyclopaedia Britannica.”
What is the easiest method of arriving at
the cubic measurement {in feet) of case
goods, etc.? —6379.
The only method is to multiply height,
length and breadth together.
Information Supplied.
5930.- —The Vic. Tennis Association has
adopted the following method of dealing with
asphalt or other hard-court surfaces in
which cracks have developed : The complete
court is covered with malthoid sealed to the
base with floatine. The resultant surface
does not crack, is smooth, true and fast, is
not hard on the feet or on balls, and the cost
is only half that of relaying asphalt. But it
is a job for an expert. Paraffine Companies,
Inc., Challis House, Martin-place, Sydney,
could supply further particulars.—“E.S.E.”
5495.—Copper wire stretched from end to
end of a building improves the acoustic pro
perties. It has been tried at Mackay (Q.)
and was found to be successful. Ordinary
copper wire, as used by the P.M.G.’s depart-
ment for telephone purposes, was employed.
Three sets of wires were run lengthwise, one
set down the centre and one along each side,
about 20ft. high. Six wires, lin. apart, are
used in each set.—“E.C.D.”
6111. —It is difficult to cure a horse of
“pulling back.” He can be prevented from
doing it by securely tying the end of a
strong lialter to a limb or beam high up
over the horse’s head. First'tie a knot in
the lead at the headstall so that the breath-
ing is not stopped when he pulls back. A
bridle can be used later on, still tying it
high up, and he will not break it. —“N. 8.”
6081. —I have found the following method
ot preserving lemon juice excellent: Squeeze
the lemons and strain juice through muslin
into clean dry bottles. Pour about -Jin. of
olive oil on top of the juice and cork. AA r hen
required, the olive oil can be soaked off with
clean cotton wool. The juice will keep for
months provided the oil is not disturbed, and
for one week after the oil is removed. —
“M.E.A.”
6206. —To bore a hole in plate-glass, lay
the glass on a smooth, flat surface. Sink
a small bolt-head flush with the surface of
the bench. Place the spot where you want
the hole bored over the nut head and centre-
punch with a sharp punch. For drilling, use
an ordinary tAvist drill of the size desired
fitted into an ordinary carpenter’s brace.
Bore through half-way and then reverse the
plate and drill frofn the other side Any
rough parts left in the hole can be reamered
out. Great care must be taken with holes
near the edge. should be used as
a lubricant. —“S.R.”
Does Anybody Know?
How to purify brackish well-water that
kills vegetables and flowers? —6551.
Brief Answers.
E.C.D.: The people are all right; but of
course you know it is a gamble T. J.M.: It
wouldn’t do you any harm; but do you think any
employer would be much impressed? If you got its
diploma, you would probably still need to become
a member of one of the older bodies B. J.S.: A
Commonwealth loan is quite as safe. If you are
prepared to take a shade more risk for the sake of
a trifle larger return, several banks and a few pref.
shares will give it....M.H.: (1) For Victor’s “Vam-
pire,” Grifflth’s “1.X.L.” and “Special,” the “Sure
Grip” and the “Platypus,” get in touch with Keep,
Macpherson, Ltd., 252 George-street, Sydney. (2)
For Lane’s traps, see Carr and Elliott, 204 Clarence-
street, Sydney... .A.E.W.: The Green Room Magazine
is no more. .. . P.S.L.: The following breeders of
sheep-dogs round about Sydney may be able to help:
J. A. Gordon, 85 Alt-street, Ashfield; Miss G.
Ruwald, 30 Arthur-street, Manly; and J. W. Smith,
20 Hattersley-street, Arncliffe R. 0.5.: A facing of
cement to which a damp proofing mixture has been
added might prove a remedy... .D.P.F.0.: (1) The
president of the Australian Literature Society is
Dr. James Booth, 154 Victoria-street, Carlton, Vic.
(2) Subscription, ss. per annum. (3) It is distinct
from the Society of Australian Authors... .A.M.N.:
Before we could assist you, it would be necessary to
know (1) whether the skins have been tanned (and
by what process, if so) or merely dry-salted; (2)
whether the rug has been mountpd; and (3) whether
the mounting, if any, could be easily removed....
T.W.F.: If in good condition, a 1C73 two-shilling
piece would be worth 7s. od., and a 1096 four-
shilling piece, 12s. 6d N.D.: (1) Boydell is a
well-known publisher and engraver ; the engraving of
Rubens’s “Second Wife” is worth about .€l. (2)
Hoart’s engravings are worth about 15s. each. (3)
His work is not known in Sydney; consequently there
is no demand. Couldn’t determine value without
inspection.... W.G.D.: For the year ending June
30, 1920, four persons were taxed orn incomes of
£IOO,OOI and over; two on £BO,OOI-£100,000;
four on £OO,OOI- £BO,OOO ; one on £50,000-
£60,000; 11 on £40,001- £50,000 ; 17 on £30,001-
£40,000 ; 45 on £20,001-£30,000 ; 299 on £IO,OOI-
- ; 1359 on £SOOI-£IO,OOO J. 8.: Publica-
tion of a tipping pamphlet such as you mention
would be illegal in Queensland G.T.: Write to
the British North Borneo Cos., Sandakan, Borneo.
The information is not procurable in Sydney....
Barsac: Appoint your wife as executrix and some
trusted friend as executor. The Registrar of Probates
would furnish all the necessary information to secure
probate. The alternative of conveying the house
and land to your wife, and settling the personalty
on her by deed of gift, would probably be less
satisfactory and be no saving in expense C.J.S. ;
You may inspect the title at the Lands Titles Office,
Queen’s-square, Sydney, on payment of a search fee.
. ...U.D.8.: There was no pantomime at Her
Majesty’s Theatre,,. Sydney, in the Christmas season of
1889-90 ; George Rignold staged an elaborate pro-
duction of “A Midsummer Night’s Dream”.... F.L.:
If the husband and wife were jointly interested in the
property, the husband on the death of the wife would
acquire the' sole interest by survivorship. AVhen
the final instalment of payment is made the transfer
of the property should be to him.... 8.8.: The
N.S.W. Matrimonial Causes Act requires the person
seeking divorce in that State to have been domiciled
in it for three years or upwards at the time of the
institution of the suit. Bring your suit in Queens-
land when the time arrives.... K.G.8.: Five of
Maupassant’s best are: “Mademoiselle Pearl,” “Boule
de Suif,” “The Dowry,” “The Necklace” and “The
Maison Tellier”.... Fence; Any doubt about the
boundary line should be settled by having it surveyed.
It would not be wise to erect the fence without
serving a notice on your neighbor of your inten-
tion to do so, stating the class of fence proposed.
If he objects the matter may be referred to arbi-
tration under the Dividing Fences Act J.M.: (1)
Assuming the land on which the house is built to
be yours, the contractor cannot assume ownership
of it and charge rent. Interest depends on the
terms of your agreement. (2) Such an agreement
might be binding but could not be produced in
evidence until stamp duty and fine had been paid.
(3) It should be stamped; maximum penalty for
not stamping a receipt for payment of £2 and
upwards, £lO. .. .Comeback: No precedent can be
found for an implied warranty in such a case, nor is
it the custom of studbreeders to give a specific
warranty... .H.G.C.: If you are the father of the
child, the law fixes the cost of its maintenance on
you—the other happenings are irrelevant... .0.0. N.:
When a child under IS years of age is found to be
uncontrollable by his parents or guardians, he may
be brought before the Children’s Court and be sent
to an institution. Consult the sergeant at the
nearest police-station... .G.G.: As you have been
going for the, paper every night and, therefore, had
ample opportunity for notifying the stationer that
you did not require it to be delivered in the morn-
ing, it would be difficult to dissociate you from
acquiescence in the act of morning delivery. . The
negligence you admit will probably render you
liable... .Owner: If you can get Cto attorn to you
as the landlord, you can then give him notice to quit
in accordance with the terms of the original tenancy.
If he will not attorn, you must look to B for the
necessary action 8.N.K.: You are, apparently,
joint owners of the car. Your brother can sell his
interest to you or you can sell yours to him, but
neither can compel the other to 5e11... .F.G.: Three
common causes of red nose are cold, alcohol and
gastric trouble. Eradicate the cause (if any) first
of all. Use Calaminae pneparatae ldr., cretae prae-
paratae ldr., glycerini 3dr., acidi hydrocyanici diluti
ldr., liquor calcis 30z., aqua; rosae ad Boz. Having
been well mixed, this should be dabbed on
and allowed to dr.v....A.K.: (1 and 2)
Apply Defence Department, A’ictoria Barracks,
Melbourne. (3) Will Andrade, Central Chambers, 173
Pitt-street, Sydney. (4) Not on. purely personal
luggage; all other goods are subject to Custom
duties. (5) French currency is in use in Tahiti; the
franc, normally equal to 9Ad. of our money, is the
unit. There would be no difficulty in exchanging
English money. (6) Yes; get in touch with A’.D.
Clinic, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney. (7)
There is sufficient local labor to meet all demands.
It would not be advisable to proceed there unless a
position was secured beforehand. .. .E.Q.: Good his-
tories of Australia are “The Making of Australia,” by
Tlios. Dunbabin; “A Short History of Australia"
(2nd edition), by Ernest Scott; and “History of
Australia,” by A. W. Jose. The country lending
branch of the N.S.AY. Public Library would assist
you considerably in any studies you contemplate by
providing a selection of suitable books and lending
those you preferred A. McP.: (1) Lotio calamini
is about as good as anything else for sunburn. (2i
Your skin is evidently supersensitive to heat. AVear
thin shirts with long sleeves. Asa prophylactic,
cocoanut-oil liberally applied before exposure is gen-
erally satisfactory. AVe don’t know of anything
that will tan the skin permanently... .F.R.J.: Both
are gambles. If you are iu doubt between them,
tes- a coin. But if you seek safety, look for some-
thing else. .. (Many others mailed.)


mm
A
W WW W f
1
iH
L»
mm
M
mm
mm
mM.
m
im
mm.
mm
mm
wmm
i
«WS»
388
Mil
SfISSKS
1
■
NSfX
m
SWSS
HHi
mm
Mi
mm
mm
S
am
mwn
WM&£
fm
m
m
m
I mm
vm
***?>%ss
SMART
NEW
SEASON’S
SAC
SUIT.
-v.
?
For Everyday and Sports Wear
AT MURDOCH’S
SPRING DAYS ARE HERE! Glorious, carefree days. The
heavily-scented bushland, the spacious, sunny play-fields, the
golden sands and restless sea —all alike now call; and the
response to each appeal brings the need for suitable Attire. Here are
some Murdoch light Summer wear, at once comfortable, pleasingly
appropriate, and inexpensive.
The Smartest of New Season’s
MURDOCH’S SPECIAL “MILL-TO-
WEARER” PRICE
SAC SUITS for Men
MEN’S Smart and Fashionable Grey Pinhead Worsted
Suits in the newest fancy effects. Made expressly for
Spring and Summer wear. Single-breasted style. Coat has
two-button front, smart roll lapels. Vest has four pockets.
Trousers have side and hip pockets and cuff bottoms. A size
for every figure. A suit of distinction and matchless value
(as illustration 1). Ready for immediate use.
90/-
Other Prices
95/-, 105/-, 126/-, 135/-
COUNTRY CLIENTS
PLEASE NOTE!
MURDOCH’S NEW SPRING
AND SUMMER COMPLETE
GENERAL CATALOGUE.
Australia’s largest Men’s and
Boys’ Wear Store in book
form—gladly mailed free on
request Write to Desk R.
Sports and Tennis Shirts
White Mercerised Sports or 1 ennis Shirts for
Men, specially reinforced at seams for strenu-
ous wear. Sports Shirts have large collar,
which may be worn open or closed at neck
(as illustration 3). Pocket. Tennis shirts
have collar, pocket and button cuffs.
Sports
Price,
516
Tennis
Price,
513
Excellent Quality
Plus Fours
The most favored garment for Golfers.
Murdoch’s excellent-quality Plus Fours,
meticulously cut to fashion’s dictates. Com-
fortable and smart in appearance. Made from
Woollen Tweeds in exclusive patterns and
distinctive shades of Grey and
F awn •
42|-
Others at .... 32/6, 37/6, 50/-, 55/-
Sports and Golf Coats
Distinctive Sports and Golf Coats for Men, in
Summer-weight Tweeds of selected quality.
Smartest pattern effects. Fashioned in latest
style, with half-belt at back. Patch pockets.
Horn or
illustration
leather buttons. As
2. Ready for Use. .
3o;-
Other qualities .... 35/-, 42/-, 50/-, 55/-
Comfortable Fitting
Sports Suits
Sports Suit for Men. In reliable All-wool
Australian Tweeds. Comfortable and easy-
fitting style as illustration 2. Coat has pleats
at back, patch pockets. Trousers have side,
fob and hip pockets, side straps, belt loops
and cuff bottoms. In smart pattern
effects. Ready for use
75 1-
Superior quality
84/-
“Murdoch - Made” Blazers
These are made in Murdoch’s own workrooms
from All-wool Navy Flannel, embodying the
utmost in comfort and service qualities. Con-
trasting colored braid on edges. Pocket and
cuffs. A size to fit every
figure
25|-
Superior quality
30/-
Cream Gabardine
Trousers
Cool and Comfortable Cream Washing
Trousers for Men. Made by specialists, and
perfectly cut to allow for a maximum of exer-
tion, from good-quality Gabardine. Side, hip
and fob pockets, side straps, belt loops, and
cuff bottoms. As illustration 3.
“Mill-to-Wearer” Price
13/11
/
Superior quality, 17/6
Special-quality Cream Woollen Gabardine
27/6, 30/-
r
la
Postage Paid to Your Door.
When writing, be sure to address
your letter to Desk R.
df
sdf
“The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.’


PEAPES
Clothe men A~ND their sons.
QUALITY—VALUE-
SERVICE.
To make a tour of inspection of
the many Departments at Peapes’
devoted exclusively to men’s and
boys’ wear is to realise how
unusual is Peapes’ provision for
every male clothing need.
Country visitors should take
advantage of the opportunity to
leave measurements for reference
in future orders by mail.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
PRIMARY PRODUCERS WOOL
AND PRODUCE SELLING CO. LTD.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £200,000.
The Hon. FRANK CHAFFEY, M.L.A..Grazier,
Tam worth.
E. E. COLLINS, Esq., Grazier, Wagga.
\V. GORDON McKINNON, Esq., Grazier, Junee.
A. A. MACKENZIE, Esq., Grazier, Guyra.
C. W. L. MURCHISON, Esq., Grazier, Gunnedah.
LESLIE P. DUTTON, Esq., Grazier, Guyra.
HARROLD CO WLI SHAW, Esq., Merchant,
Sydney.
G.H. HARDING, Esq., Company Director, Sydney.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The object of the Company is to offer at auction, within 21 days after arrival in store, all
wools consigned to it for sale, whether they be large or small clips, late or early shorn, free
or faulty, in order of arrival.
Don’t run the risk of having to wait longer for your wool to be catalogued, but have it
offered promptly by the PRIMARY PRODUCERS WOOL AND PRODUCE SELLING CO., LTD.
Consignment notes will be forwarded on application.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES ARE INVITED.
The
Stock
Owner
X
who consigns Cattle, Calves, Pigs, Sheep
or Lambs to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
for sale takes a step which safeguards his interests
to the utmost, assuring him top values for his con-
signments and thorough care for his business in
every particular.
Rail or Ship Stock to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD.,
SALESMEN,
Homebush Yards, or Enoggera Yards,
Sydney. Brisbant.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
IS DAIRYING A REAL INDUSTRY?
“Ex-Cowman”: I have had a long and
varied experience of dairying in three States,
and tlie failure to make it pay is, I know,
not confined to the settler who lias been put
on too small a holding at too high a price.
As a young man I made a fortune in
N.S.W. grazing, and was tempted to return
to Victoria to take up dairying on a large
area of some of tlm best land in the State.
I had energy, experience and capital. I
used the most up-to-date methods. I had
the best stock procurable, which I tested
and culled heavily. My herd of 150 milkers
invariably headed the list in the local herd-
testing for herds of more than 20 cows. After
15 years of strenuous work in this favored
locality I had lost a considerable portion of
the capital invested, and saw no prospect of
anything but loss. I decided two years ago
to get out. I returned to grazing in N.S.W.,
and, notwithstanding the severe drought of
last year, am well satisfied.
Most dairymen recognise that they are,
and have been, working with inferior stock,
and there is a very strong move to remedy
this. But improvement in production is a
slow process. Good dairy cows and good
sires, although increasing in number, are
costly and above the purse of the average
dairy-farmer, and at present are not nearly
numerous enough to go round. It takes at
least three years before the influence of a
high-priced sire on a herd can be gauged,
and often the improvement is disappointing.
Where I am now, with abundance of
feed and good cows, I find the cost in wages
to milk, separate and churn is more than
the same quantity of butter can be purchased
for at the local store; and this without tak-
ing into account interest on cost of cows,
land on which they are run and plant.
THE HORSE V. THE TRACTOR.
“P.M.”: The increased acreage under
wheat in Vic. this year is closely associated
with the tractor question (B. 29/8/’28).
“R.R.R.” is right when he says don’t buy a
tractor unless cropping at least 500 acres.
Many farmers having bought tractors, and,
finding that they can handle additional areas,
have taken them on shares from neighbors.
This plays an important part in the increase
in wheat sown. I don’t quite agree with
“R.R.R.’s” figures in one respect. When a
farmer sells ten horses and buys a tractor
capable of pulling a ten-horse implement,
he has a machine that will do considerably
more than the work of ten horses. A team
of horses averages two miles an hour; work-
ing six nine-hour days a week, the neddies
will travel 108 hours a week. But there is
no limit to the time you can work a tractor,
and also it will travel three to miles
per hour. I know a case where a tractor
was run ploughing for over three weeks
without stopping the engine, and only
stopped, the tractor to fill up with fuel and
water. The two brothers concerned worked
reliefs of six hours on and six off, and
fallowed 945 acres. This meant that a trac-
tor with a seven-furrow plough was doing
the work of four ten-horse teams and four
ploughs. The farmer and his son referred
to by “R.R.R.” could thus do the work of
two horse teams and two ploughs and drills,
or more. That is a fact to be taken into
account when comparing depreciation with
horses. But there is another side to all
this. Wheat is one of the few commodities
that so far has not suffered a serious glut.
W.A., like Vic., is.booming its wheat areas;
so are other countries, and wheat will some
day come to its point of overflow. That
opens up the question of growing mixed
grains, and feeding them to pigs, poultry,
etc., on the farm. It is a question that the
wheat-grow T ers w T ill have to face before many
years have passed.
THE TRACTOR ON THE CANE FARM.
“Clarenza”: The most difficult job on a
sugar-cane farm was the ploughing out and
breaking up of the cane stools in an ex-
hausted field. The work was hard on horses,
and the stools turned up m tough sods which
impeded further cultivation. Now a rotary
hoe, drawn by a tractor, simplifies the opera-
tion. chopping the stools up fine and leaving
the land in good condition for cultivation and
the sowing of any other crop. It took a
long while to get a move on; but now trac-
tors are rapidly coming into general use for
this and other work in the cane areas of
Queensland and N. S. Wales.
A NEW STOCK PEST.
“Dormouse” : For many years complaints
have been made to the Federal authority that
the dreaded buffalo-fly, which promises to
rival the tick as a stock destroyer and is
far less amenable to destructive or precaution-
ary measures, lias been steadily making its
way south-west from the Northern Territory
into the cattle country of N.-W. Queensland.
The fly was long ago introduced with the
buffalo, to which, however, it is not a serious
affliction. It is a swarming bloodsucker, and
its inroads on the herds of thin-skinned
European breeds of cattle in the N.T. have
resulted in serious losses. It is at its worst
in good seasons, and the torture inflicted
by it makes it impossible to fatten cattle
in the areas infested. Dipping is of no
avail against it, and quarantine offers many
difficulties which do not present themselves
where the tick is concerned. In 1925 the
Federal Government commissioned a veter-
inary officer to make an inquiry. He
reported that the intruder was already push-
ing its way into Queensland from the N.T.
The Queensland Government thereupon asked
for Federal action of some sort, but nothing
was done. Early this year Queensland sent
up an investigator of its own, and he has
reported that the fly has spread far beyond
the limits outlined in the report of three
years ago, and has already become a direct
menace to that State’s cattle and horses.
It has now asked the Federal authorities to
attempt some measure of prevention, and
is prepared to co-operate. As Queensland
supplies Australia with most of its beef
there is good reason for asking that the
matter be handled as one of national urgency.
WORMS IN SHEEP.
“Jonah II.”: After 30 years] experience
among sheep I find the following formula
the most effective in keeping down worms:
Take four kerosene-tins of coarse salt, one
of draft Epsom salts and one half-tin of pul-
verised slacked lime. Mix this thoroughly
on a wooden floor and put out in sheltered
troughs, which should be at least a mile from
water. On sour country in New England I
kept 9000 sheep free of worms right through
a bad winter. The sheep do not take kindly
to it at first, but gradually get used to it;
and it has the merit of being cheap.
WHEN TO CUT FOR HAY.
Numerous “Land” contributors having, ex*
pressed contrary opinions on this subject,
the N.S.W. Agricultural Department has its
official say.
The wheat crop is at the best stage for
hay, the department’s officers think, a few
days after it is in flower; at this stage the
plant contains its maximum amount of nutri-
ment, which at the same time is evenly dis-
tributed throughtout the whole plant. This
is as it should be for hay-making purposes,
for when preserved as hay the whole of the
plant is to be eaten, and not only the ears.
It is, therefore, better that the whole of the
nutriment should be evenly distributed
throughout the plant, rather than that one
portion should be excessively nutritious
whilst the remainder is of little or no value
as a food.
Although the crop contains at the flower-
ing stage the maximum amount of nutriment,
it has not reached the stage when it will pro-
duce the greatest weight of hay. The dry
matter in the plant increases until it is
mature, and because of this some farmers re-
frain from cutting the crop until it has
passed the flowering stage, in order to get a
greater quantity of hay. They gain the
extra weight at the expense of the feeding-
value and color.
The position of the farmer "who has to
cut for hay a crop that he intended for grain
is a different one. He cannot expect to get
the quality that the grower wall who has
grown for hay and cut at the right time. In
matters both of variety and of time of cut-
ting the grain-grower is at a disadvantage—
more especially when, he delays cutting as
long as possible in the hope that he will get
a crop of grain, the straw; meantime losing
all the color that would recommend it for
hay. In such circumstances the only advice
that can be offered is that the farmer should
endeavor to cut at the earliest possible
moment after he is satisfied that he is not
going to get a profitable grain yield.
SALT LICKS FOR SHEEP.
“Agronom”: “The Welkin” (B. l/8/’28)
is wrong in saying that salt should be added
to silage, as it preserves it and adds nourish-
ment. Properly-made silage needs no such
preserving—that is done by the fermentation
that must take place to produce good silage.
It is a clumsy method of adding nourish-
ment or tonics, as the individual taste and
salt requirements of sheep vary. Therefore,
they should not be forced to eat inaccurately
proportioned quantities of salt with their
S A moment’s consideration will convince
one of the difficulties of spreading a definite
proportion of salt through the silage and get-
ting an even distribution. By far the best
way is to provide a proper salt lick to which
the sheep can help themselves; then each
sheep takes just what it requires. Further,
a real tonic can be provided by adding Epsom
salts and sterilised bone to the coarse salt.
A salt lick should always be provided for
sheep, especially when feeding on silage. Buy
the ingredients you decide on and mix them.
If you can’t or won’t do this, then at least
buy your lick on analysis. A recent exami-
nation of two proprietary licks revealed the
fact that, whereas one contained almost
nothing but salt, the others contained quite
a fair proportion of the other more expen-
sive ingredients which are so necessary. Yet
both sold at the same price.
TONICS AND LICKS.
“The Welkin”: Few stock-owners but
have something to learn about tonics and
licks. Iodine, for instance, should form a
small part of every lick, since it has no
equal as a health and strength-giving tonic.
This is a mixture advocated by the Vic.
Agricultural Department: 5oz. potassium
iodide, 401b salt, 201b. powdered bone
(supplying calcium and phosphorus), 251b.
lime (air-slaked), and 151b. sulphur. No
matter what the mixture may be, 3oz. or 4oz.
of pot. iodide should be included in each cwt.
The iodide should be dissolved in a little
water and mixed thoroughly with the bulk.
Also, 2oz. may be incorporated in every
ton of ordinary concentrated foodstuff. If
pregnant stock is rationed with iodide
healthier young will result; it also has a
tendency to induce pregnancy in doubtful
mothers. For pregnant ewes mix 2oz. of
pot. iodide dissolved in water with 501b.
of salt, and allow the stock access to it.
Pregnant cows can take enough powdered
iodide to cover sixpence, weekly, in their
food.
For pregnant sows, one ounce in half
a gallon of water rationed at the rate of
one eggeupful in the feed daily per brood
sow. Pregnant mares should be rationed
fortnightly with a teaspoonful (powder) in
their food or water. As to salt, there is
danger in over-rationing. Never substitute
fine salt for rock; also go very .easy with
superphosphate. A mixture of these .two
chemicals alone has been used as a lick. Is
it any wonder that favorable results failed
to materialise or even disaster followed?
Stock owners near the coast have a valu-
able tonic-food in seaweed for the taking.
Chop it up and use it as a concentrate.
Administered with bone-dust, it is the
equal of a good lick in itself, being rich in
both salt and iodine.
EARLY TOMATOES.
“Lectro”: Here is something up-to-date
and even better than “Go Do’s” (B.
29/8/’28) method of germinating early
tomato seeds. Electric heating cables are
laid under my seed frames, and this season
in July I germinated seeds in 10 days. I im-
poted these cables from Norway, the only
country where, seemingly, they are manu-
factured. Though a little late in getting
them into operation, the experiment proved
quite satisfactory, as I gained by it experi-
ence which should bring me still better re-
sults next season. Current is a little ex-
pensive in my case, as I live outside Sydney
Municipal’s Council reticulation area, but
that is discounted if earlier tomato crops
result. Through it winter seed-germination
will be reduced to a mechanical process.
The seed boxes and cables are permanent fix-
tures, and eliminate the annual digging
and re-manuring.
“Go Do’s” idea of giving the transplanted
seedlings plenty of spread in the seed boxes
is sound, but after that comes a difficulty.
Seedlings in boxes if raised, say, in June
have to be stored in a warm sheltered situa-
tion until late in August before being trans-
planted to the field. For a crop of 2000
plants this means many boxes and large
shelter-sheds, and even by that time they
would be only three or four inches high.
Chinese and Maltese gardeners in my district
have now plants out in the field 10 inches
high with clusters of flower buds. These
were placed in position months ago under
bag shelters, and although it means a great
expenditure of work and attention I cannot
at present see any better way. In my experi-
ence, plants placed out extra early make
very little headway even when sheltered
from frost, as the soil temperature is too
low. Can “Go Do” offer any further advice?
What are his methods subsequent to tlie
seedbox stage, and when does he collect nr
first fruit?
CHERRY APHIS.
“Tuan”: The cherry aphis, which has
played such havoc with Victorian orchards,
is becoming prevalent in parts of JN.S. W - An
the event of infestation, even to a limited ex-
tent, farmers should undertake control i nea ~
sures immediately. Where the buds have
not yet burst either of the following spraj s
may be used: Miscible oil, at the rate o-
-1 gallon to 20 gallons of water, or nicotine
sulphate (black leaf 40), at the rate ot
1 pint to 75 gallons of water, with the addi-
tion of 31b. of soap. A combination of these
two sprays also gives good results when mixed
in the proportions of 1 gallon of oil and 1
pint of nicotine sulpliatq to 80 gallons ot
water. The nicotine should first be mixed
with the main bulk of the water and the
primary oil emulsion added afterwards.
Where the budfe have burst, nicotine sul-
phate, at the rate of 1 pint to 75 gallons plus
31b. of soap, should be used alone. It may be
necessary to repeat the application of this
spray several times during spring and early
summer to avoid the period when the blos-
soms are fully open, unless the infestation is
so severe that the setting of the young fruit
is likely to be seriously affected.
These sprays have been effectively used
on peach aphis also.
THE APHIS AND ITS PARASITES.
“Noscon”: Doubtless many N. S. Wales
orchardists in removing the codlin-moth
bandages from their apple-trees during the
winter clean-up have noticed large numbers
of woolly aphids attached to the tree-trunks
beneath the bandages. Closer inspection will
reveal that most of these are bluish black
in color and have lost their woolly covering,
thus indicating that a very high percentage
are parasitised by the little wasp parasite
Aphelinus mali, which was so efficient m
keeping down woolly aphids in many apple
areas this season that spraying for this
pest became unnecessary. . .
The woolly aphid on becoming parasitised
grows uneasy and commences to move freely
about the limbs and trunks of the trees,
and, finding suitable shelter beneath the
bandages, remains there. The parasites re-
main within the bodies of the aphids till
spring, when they once more emerge to
carry on their useful work.
Incidentally, the successful over-winter-
ing of insect parasites is one of the problems
of satisfactory biological control of insect
pests. Thus the codlin-moth bandages serve
a dual purpose, since in protecting the
parasitised aphids from _ their natural
enemies they increase materially the number
of useful parasites which will carry over
from season to season.
PRUNING THE LEMON.
The pruning of the lemon, according to
the citrus expert of the N.S.W. Agricultural
Department, should start at the time ot
planting, when the tree is cut back in order
to give a good strong foundation. As this
tree always throws out longer and more
slender growth than the orange, it will m
consequence require more constant attention
to keep it in good bearing condition.
The time for pruning the lemon depends
upon the aim of the grower. If the tree is
young and it is desired to promote wood
growth, it should be pruned at the beginning
of the spring growth, but in older trees,
where the object is to stop growth, and ad-
vance fruiting, it is better to prune in mid-
summer. . ,
For the first few years the aim should be
to produce a good strong tree, and to attain
this end all straggling growth will have to be
cut back every year, and the tree thinned
out, arranging the branches so they will not
be too close together. Cutting the branches
back in this way will so strengthen them by
reducing their length and removing the strain
from their extremities that they will be able
to hold a good crop of fruit.
Trees properly pruned will throw out
numerous short laterals, and the fruit will be
borne more in the centre of the tree, where
there is less danger of its weight breaking
the branches, and less danger of its being
blown about and damaged by winds. It is
very noticeable that the best lemons are
found around the centre and bottom of the
tree.
SPLIT FRUIT-TREES.
“Emel”: The orchardist who finds that
heavy fruiting has split the trunks of badly
crowned trees need not regard them as
ruined. If the split divided the trunk roughly
in halves, the fallen part of the tree can at
pruning time be drawn up to the other, the
edges of bark shaved to bring two sappy
surfaces together, and a bolt driven through
to secure the two portions of the trunk
closely. Trees thus bolted together three
years ago in our orchard now show little
sign of cleavage except the ends of the bolts,
and they are in process of being overgrown.


Double sole and
upper
The toughest leather available, in
twice the usual thickness, gives this
Abbey Cossack a sole that’s unsur-
passed for hard service.
The upper, too, is doubled, being
lined throughout with a supple
leather that’s soft and restful to the
foot. Dust and grass seeds are kept
out by the flaps which attach the
tongue.
Cut lower at back of ankle, this
boot fits more easily and closely.
There’s a natural arching where it
lies over the instep.
ORDER BY POST
Supplied at three prices—in black
and tan. Same sole leather for
all—the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of specially tough and
pliant calf. Ask for the correct
Abbey Polish (6d. per tin) when
ordering.
TAN WILLOW 46/6 & 41/6
BLACK 39/6
40-Pagc Catalogue post free on
request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Fitt St.,
L9O. SYDNEY
GRIP YOUR HORSE
sd
THE PRINCE
POLEY
£l4/14/-
with Wieneke’s
New Model
1928
PRINCE POLEY
The kneepads are set
higher up, but the
stirrup bars are free
for safety; in case of
an accident the
leathers will pull off.
Forty years’ saddle-
making has made the
Wieneke world-
Complete. famous.
SIGN HERE and I will send you my big book of
saddles and my experiences.
Name
Address
Post this Ad.
JACK WIENEKE,
c/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 George St., Sydney.
432 Queen St., Brisbane.
Fluke and Stomach Worms
in Sheep.
SIX CURED FOR ONE PENNY with
SAYERS’ REMEDY.
Contains 1 e.c. of Carbon Tetrachloride per dose.
Originally introduced to cure Fluke. Has been
proved by hundreds of risers to be 100 per cent,
effective, and has been found equally effective for
STOMACH WORMS.
1-pint tin, treats 113 sheep, 4/6 each.
1-quart tin, treats 227 sheep, 6/6 each.
1-gallon tin, treats 909 sheep, 13/6 each.
4-gallon tin, 12/6 gallon.
To introduce it to various districts the Manufactui ei s,
on receipt of the above prices for pint and quart,
tins, pay cost of postage to any part of N>.\\.,
provided the cutting from this newspaper is also
enclosed.
ON FIRST ORDF.R WE PAY THE POSTAGE.
Gallon and 4-gallon tins will also be forwarded,
freight paid, to any Railway Station in N.S.W., if
order is accompanied by the newspaper cutting.
Sayers’ Allport Propty. Ltd.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
v/
LtU
Care For The Hands
With Cuticura
Daily use of the Soap, with
occasional touches of the Ointment,
keeps the hands soft and smooth.
If red, rough or sore, on retiring
bathe them in hot water and Cuti-
cura Soap, dry, and gently rub in
Cuticura Ointment.
Soap Is.,Talcum ls.3d.,Ointment Is.and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co.,Sydney,N.S.W.
I IWF* Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
GOUROCK
KOmtOKK
lixroiiT co.
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
GROCERS.
JHE “EARL” BACON CUTTERS, “made
in Australia,” are always at your service—made
in five models, prices £8 to £3B, cash or terms.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
HUMPHREY EARL, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY Also at WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales ( WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
Throughout the Year 1 HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock, Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney. JAMES KIDD, General Manager for Australia.
DO YOU WANT TO EARN MORE MONEY?
We can set you on the road x better money and an assured profession in life. A profession in
which competition is limited and which offers wonderful opportunities if you have any ability
and are persevering. Our tuition gives opportunities to students not to be found elsewhere.
Write for our booklet, telling of positions, salaries and fees, to-day. Start your new career NOW.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
W&W26.
MJSf[RWIFiMN
mm
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAN! BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
If, however, the split part cannot be bolted
conveniently, cut it away, cut back the re-
maining portion heavily, and from next
season’s vigorous growth of young wood
shape your tree anew by judicious pruning.
Trees so cut back lose a season or two as
regards fruit, but make up for it later.
A WINDMILL FOR 355.
“Tryit”: Many anew settler is unable to
buy mills, however desirable they may be,
owing to the expense; but a cheap and
efficient mill can be made at a. cost of not
more than 355., provided certain material is
handy.
First split four red-gum posts 13ft. long,
about lOin. x 6in. at tli e bottom, and not
less than 4in. x 4in: at the top end. These
uprights should be placed at least 2ft. Gin.
in the ground in pairs, about 6ft. apart at
the bottom and leaning towards each other
until it is 2ft. across them at the top. Each
should be spirit-leve'jled, and two pieces
4x3, 2ft. 6in. long, mortised and placed
across the top of each pair of uprights and
nailed for the bearing carriers. The axle
will be a piece of 5 x 5 stringy-bark, T ft.
long. Make round, of course, to turn in the
bearing. From two pieces of 4 x 3 red gum
or stringy-bark make the bearing to fit the
axle at the round part. Four pieces of
Oregon 3x2, lift, long, are the arms to
carry the fans. These are chocked into th°
axle Sin. in from the bearing. At one end
they are at right angles on the flat of the
axle, and the other end at right angles on
the end of the axle, and are bolted on with
'■jin. bolts. When that is made and fitted,
take it and the bearings and bolt the bear-
ings on to the bearing carriers. Next stay
the uprights rigidly with cross, stays. Then
take four sheets of corrugated iron 6ft. long,
and bolt them on to the end of the arms on
the “skew.” Use hoop-iron to prevent the
bolts drawing through the iron, and. a crank
made by the blacksmith out of 2 x §in. steel,
rounded at one end and drilled to take a
split pin, with two holes drilled to take
fin. bolts. Bolt these on to the end of the
axle. All that is needed now is to connect
the crank to the lifting rod of an assembled
pump, and with the wind from the right
quarter it will lift water.
This mill is stationary, of course, and
will go only when the wind blows along the
axle or oblique to an angle of 45 degrees.
It is direct action, a stroke every revolu-
tion. But they serve. I have three of these
mills and have never been without water for
my stock since I put them up.
OILING THE WINDMILL.
“Rob P.”: The safest method of oiling
a windmill is to first pull it out of gear, and
stand on the vane or tail close up to the
tower. This brings oil holes and cups under-
neath the operator’s reach; and should the
mill twirl about in a choppy wind it carries
him with it, and a safe working position is
maintained irrespective of. the mill’s move-
ments. This method applies chiefly to big
mills, but should be employed for all mills
with oil-cups not easily reachable from the
platform.
In replacing a broken cut-out wire, how-
ever, some of the work must be done from
the platform, and the repairer must always
be ready to move with the mill. First pull
the broken wire up out of the casting and
detach it from the chain; then tie a short
length of new wire on to the chain and
push it (the wire) through the pulleys and
down inside the casting. The new wire can
then easily be joined on to the broken wire
still on the pull-out lever. If the mill wheel
is spinning, be careful that the wire does
not get tangled in it; and wherever possible
stand on the vane. Never tie a mill wheel to
the tower; a sudden heavy gust of wind may
cause it to be seriously damaged.
MILK SECRETION.
“L.S.L.”: How is it, if the milk is not
secreted at milking time, that cows will
give more milk to quiet quick milkers than
to noisy slow ones? The milker the cows
like gets more milk and more cream than
one with whom they kick and fidget. My
two milkers being laid up, I did the milking
for a week. That week I made 100 per cent,
more butter than usual. When my milkers
returned to the job, the milk and butter
dropped back again. I stripped the cows
after them, but found the animals were
• milked absolutely dry. The conclusion. is
that most of the milk is secreted during
milking and that “holding back the milk” is
really non-secretion, no cow being consciously
capable of holding back the flow of milk, as
some assert. The milk is secreted in quan-
tity according to the content and comfort
of the cow during milking.
“Paul C.”: I agree with “Te Hipi” as
against “Jock” (B. l/S/’2B) that the size
of a cow's udder is a good indication of the
quantity of milk she will give. I will grant
that there are exceptions to this rule —that
is, where cows have fleshy udders. I cer-
tainly never yet have seen a cow (and I have
had to deal with many hundreds of dairy
cows in my time) with a small udder that
gave a great quantity of milk. Go through
the milking section at any show and you
\yill find that the cows entered have all large,
roomy udders. If “Jock’s” contention were
correct, one would expect at least occasion-
ally to see cows in the competitions with
comparatively small udders.
BACK WOOL.
“B-Gar” : Where the back wool shows a lot
of dust and foreign matter, or is any way
wasty, it pays to take the -whole portion out
of the fleece. Many classers when taking
out the backs tear them up and put them
in with either the broken or the first or
second pieces. This is a mistake ; back wool
should be kept in a class by itself. Asa rule
it is shorter in staple than the rest, of the
fleece, and in many cases is finer in quality.
Also ■when it is necessary to take out this
wool, it generally carries much more dust
and foreign matter than the bulk of the
pieces. In large clips, when necessary, make
two lots of back wool, paying particular
attention to the amount of foreign matter,
dust or sand; in farmers’ clips one sort will
do. Buyers are likely to walk past a lot of
pieces in which sandy or short-stapled backs
are included, and thus the sale of what would
probably be a good line of pieces is spoilt.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Emel”: Should one run warm water
through the separator after the milk has
gone through, in order to get the last of the
cream out clean? I know it is the practice
in many dairies, but we use 1 separated milk
in lieu of the warm water. Results are
satisfactory too. Our cream travels over
200 miles by rail to the factory, yet it is
graded "first,” with a fairly frequent “super”
to cheer us up.
“Mick Q.”: “Old Timer’s” remedy (B.
15/8/’2B) for sore teats on cows is good,
but here is a better one: Use one to two
parts of carbolic fluid to about six of vaseline
or petroleum jelly, and mix well. Petroleum
jelly is very cheap if purchased by the
pound. The mixture can be applied before
and after milking; and, unlike “Old
Timer’s,” it will keep indefinitely.
“Poker” : If the cows have cracked teats,
bathe in warm water, and apply glycerine
of tannin twice a day.
“Oofti” : Wattle seed should be sown in the
spring in a shallow box or in open ground
in a mixture of one-quarter sand, one half
good alluvial soil and one-quarter broken
charcoal. Sow the seed thinly, pressing firmly
in, then cover with thin sifted soil to the
thickness of the seed itself. Shade should
be afforded and the seed watered copiously.
Lastly, the transplanting should be done on
a rainy day.
“Poker” : A good beef-brine can be made
by mixing 12 gallons water, 281 b. salt, 71b.
brown sugar, lib. saltpetre. Leave the meat
in for 48 hours.
“Boronia”: Many fruit-trees are shy
bearers owing to extreme vigor and the
excessive activ'ty of the sap-channels, which
result in the fruit buds bursting at setting
time. Trees of this nature should be cinc-
tured, Get a knife with a sharp point,
and cut through the bark of the trunk spiral
fashion, from just above the ground to the
fork. This retards the flow of sap, and
usually results in the tree becoming a nor
mal bearer. When this method fails the
tree is merely a ground waster, and should
be grubbed out.
“Pick”: To prevent an axe or hoe from
flying off its handle, smear eye and handle-
head with the red gum that exudes from
almost any gum-tree, but most plentifully
from the cabbage-gum. Before driving the
holding wedge, smear it, too, with the gum.
When it breaks probably it will have to be
burnt out. Bury the blade in damp clay
up to the eye and light a fire over it. The
temper of the steel will thus not be affected.
Let it cool before removal from the clay bed.
“Nota Bene”: A cheap and effective blow-
fly trap can easily be made out of a kero- 1
sene-tin and some wire gauze. Cut the top
out of tin, put in a skinned rabbit with a
couple of quarts of water. Cover tightly
with a piece of wire gauze, in the centre
of which is a funnel about 4in. x 4in. with
the small end about 4in. in diameter at the
bottom. A few of these cheap traps about
the places where flies are will catch thou-
sands. ,
“Nitric”: When buying a young boar or
sow, choose one that sfands well on its
toes. This in an indication of strong
pasterns.
“Poker”: A good leather dressing can be
very quickly made by mixing 1 part vinegar
to 2 parts boiled linseed oil; shake well
together; apply with a soft rag, then rub
with a chamois.
“Boronia”: Constant jarring loosens and
breaks down the wood fibres of tool handles,
and a slight wrench then means the pur-
chase of anew / one. Before fitting any
tool handle stand it in kerosene for a few
days. This toughens and binds the fibres.
An axe-handle so treated will outlast at
least three untreated.
“Silky”: During the past two months I
have had considerable trouble with rny horses
suffering from mange, and have found the fol-
lowing mixture to be an effectual cure. When
made it has somewhat the consistency _of
paint, and should be applied, after cleaning
the part, with a stiff brush. One or two
applications should be sufficient: Raw lin-
seed oil, 2 pints; flowers of sulphur, 8oz.;
zinc oxide, 40z.; lysol, 14 fluid oz. Crush
any lumps in the sulphur and the zinc oxide,
mix the two thoroughly and tip into the
raw linseed oil. When the oil has taken
in all the sulphur and zinc oxide then add
the lysol. .
“N. 8.”: The following will be found a
very good whitewash for outdoor buildings,
if the instructions are carefully carried out.
Half a kerosene-tinful of lime slacked in
boiling water; cover the tin during the pro-
cess to keep in the steam. Strain through a
fine sieve. Dissolve a double handful of
salt in warm water, and add; also three
pounds of ground rice, boiled to a thin paste
and stirred in while hot, one pound of glue,
previously dissolved, half-pound Spanish whit-
ing. Add about four gals, of hot water to
the mixture, stir well, and allow to stand for
a few days before using. Then apply hot.
“Breed”: I don’t advise farmers to use
“Rastus’s” method (B. 22/8/’2B) of coup-
ling rams together by means of a strap to
keep them from breaking into a paddock
occupied by ewes. Besides being torture,
there’s always a chance of their getting
caught in scrub country, and that’s liable to
be fatal. A few odd lambs are a lot better
than two dead rams.
“Ledraw”: An unfailing remedy for black
scours in cattle is 4oz. mustard and 4oz.
bluestone, dissolved in two gallons of water.
The dosage—l 6 fluid ounces for a grown
beast and Boz. for yearlings—provides immu-
nity for 12 months.
“The Welkin”: For the sweet potato a
good soil of sandy loam gives the best re-
sults. Don’t plant in positions where frosts
have easy access. Super, is the best manure,
and it should be worked through the soil
before planting. Good tubers can be sown
now in prepared plots and then transplanted,
or the potato can be propagated by cut-
tings. If planting cuttings, see that each has
three joints. They do best if sown both ends,
loop-fashion. Allow plenty of room. Eighteen
tons per quarter-acre is a fair thing to
expect.
“B-Gar”: Why should the hide from a
white bullock be best for station use? It
works up better, is more pliable and has not
the tendency to crack when dry. Whip-
makers invariably prefer it. Why?


X
pa
O
r 1
2
H


iiSH
m
: v : -
For all the family to enjoy—
REVEALING in its beautiful bodies the comfort, style and elegance
that women all admire . . . offering the drive, dash and stamina that
men demand in a motor-car. . . and so easy and safe to handle that every
mile at the wheel is a joy—the Bigger and Better Chevrolet is bringing a
new measure of motoring enjoyment to thousands of families everywhere.
No other low-priced car so admirably meets the needs of every member
of the family. Built on a wheelbase of 107 inches . . . equipped with
powerful, non-locking 4-wheel brakes . . . and with its worm - and - gear
steering mechanism fitted with ball-bearings throughout it introduces
into the low-priced field an entirely new order of beauty, comfort, safety
and handling ease.
Visit your Chevrolet dealer to-day. Learn for yourself why families
everywhere are unanimously choosing the Bigger and Better Chevrolet.
QUALITY AT LOW COST.
THE TOURER
£205
Standard
Roadster -
Sports
Roadster -
Two-door
Sedan - -
Four-door
Sedan - -
Buy from
Dealer.
WARRANTED
FOR
ONE YEAR.
. £205
£226
.. £285
£315
Y our Local
Metropolitan Distributors:
Melbourne: Lane’s Motors Pty., Ltd., Exhibition Street.
Brisbane: Metropolitan Motors, Ltd'., Adelaide Street.
Sydney: John McGrath, Ltd., Elizabeth Street.
Adelaide: Mann’s Motors, Ltd., Franklin Street.
Perth: Skipper Bailey Motors Co., Ltd., Hay Street.
General motors (Australia) pty. ltd
■
'' ' k
■v4p»p
> ?/,•*..'
'••*. •*«
H pi * »dM,
\"iSvXe ! MM-i s m,
Bigge
> '{[> '«*/£ "' 4 f# <\
and
Better
mm
I
>
m
n
m
■


Mere words cannot express
their inSinite superiority*
Army Club
lO for 9d* CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked paper.
CAV ANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
it*.
&
V
V
m
m
At
/S;
CORK
TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
Ink for fountain-pens, made by a secret
process, is now on the market. That’s
another secret that, will soon leak out.
A Sydney bookmaker says the Australian
punter is a good loser. Well, look at the
practice he gets!
¥ ¥
A Rockhampton (Q.) man has invented a
silent gramophone needle. We learn that he
is trying to sell it to one of the broadcasting
companies.
¥ ¥
An English aviator who broke a record
by remaining aloft in a light aeroplane for
24 hours read three novels while in the air.
It is not explained why he imposed upon
himself this additional trial.
IN METHUSELAH’S TIME.
OLD G ENT: “Dear me, what a peevish child!
Is he ill?”
NURSE: “No, but the little dear’s just
cutting his whiskers.”
A Melbourne burglar drank a bottle of
milk which had been left on the doorstep
of the house he ransacked. Ha—a cat
burglar!
¥ *
In a recent waterfront scuffle a sailor
fought four firemen and beat them. Evi-
dently an able seaman.
From a Sydney examination paper:
“Palm grease is a kind of substance that’s
extracted from coal.”
¥ ¥
When the landlord comes on Monday,
lucky is the man who hath the rent in his
garments.
A LITTLE APLOMB.
“The Brunswick Hussars,” says the
World’s News, “galloped into the Battle of
Saarbrucken smoking, every man of them,
good strong Havana cigars. Their martial
aplomb overwhelmed the enemy.”
Publication of that, I fear, is responsible
for the X’ecent strange happenings in our
office.
At 2 p.m. last Monday our managing-
director missed two choice Havanas from his
desk. After much irritability he departed
for golf at 2.15 p.m.
At 2.47$ p.m. our office boy told off the
sub-manager for nursing Fluffy, the Chief's
new blonde typist, proclaiming with aplomb
that he was merely looking after the Chief’s
interests.
At 3.15 p.m. the young imp attempted to
remove the wrinkles from the stockings of the
firm’s oldest spinster customer. During th i
consequent rumpus his aplomb was astound-
ing. At 4.30 p.m. he kissed the Chief’s daugh-
ter and offered to take her to the pictures
next St. Patrick’s Day. Ilis aplomb enabled
him to get away with it.
At 5 p.m. the Chief returned, closely
pursued by the Chiefess. lie was getting
very much the worse of the argument until
our oliiee boy, with aplomb, put the lady in
her place. For this timely assistance the
Chief promised him a whole day off to bury
his grandmother next time the old dear
dies on the day before the inter-State foot-
ball match.
At 5.30 p.m. the sub-manager found our
office boy in the basement, prostrate and
with features of a queer greenish tint. Be-
side him smouldered the remains of a choice
Havana. Being quite bereft of aplomb
and unable to protect himself, the 0.8. was
foully sacked by the sub at 5.31$ p.m., thus
ending a most promising career.
Hob. P.
“Starve the crows,” said tlio Domain phil-
osopher. “Sin always brings its own punish-
ment. F’instance, there’s the bloke who in-
duced my wife to run away with ’im —he’s
married to her now.”
# *
According to a Sydney doctor, the roof
of the human mouth is becoming smaller
and narrower. A result, no doubt, of eating
meals in modern flats.
A sporting writer says that racehorses
should be given appropriate names. We defy
anyone to say the names we have given
some of them were not appropriate.
* *
As Sydney’s Royal (Commissions prove
it is hard to climb high and remain on the
level.
# ¥
“I’ve shaved yon before!” the barber said,
With a touch of exuberance,
“Oh, no!” said the customer, as he bled,
“Those scars I received in France!”
* *
Although the criminal may not readily
see the error of his ways, lie’s always open
to conviction.
* *
It’s to be hoped, now, that the Dries will
dry up.
¥ *
The number of cricketers has grown so
greatly in Sydney that on many grounds
two matches a day will be played. No rest
for the wicket, evidently.
* *
An English landowner has been fined
heavily for scaring his tenants by firing at
them. He said he fired over their heads, as
a joke, to scare them. Plainly they objected
to him making game of them.
S. M. Herald : “She was a woman who
not only lived grandly, but knew how to die
gracefully.” Many tired husbands feel that
this is an accomplishment that should be
taught.
¥ ¥
The habits of Eve persist through the
ages; after her union with her Adam she
raises Cain.
¥ ¥
She went up to the theatre ticket-office.
“What sort of play is it?” she asked eagerly.
“Melodrama,” said the official curtly. “Oh,”
she replied, disappointedly, drawing back
SHE POLLED IT OFF.
“The Egyptian dancer didn’t take on much the first night.”
“No, but she took off more the second night.”
the money she was proffering. “This can’t
be the right place. I thought my friend told
me it was a bedroom drama.”
¥ ¥
Tlicir calces are dough when, for Love’s sake,
Men gaily to the altar go — ,
Their wives, they find, seise all the cake;
Their part is handing out the dough.
N.S.W. P. P.
¥ ¥
We learn that there is no truth in the
report that a Sydney union leader had been
arrested and charged with inciting others to
work.
X ¥
The Boss: “What’s your name?”
Applicant for the Job: “Maephairson;
Macphairson; R-r-r-rober-rt Maephairson.
... .Ah’m Scootch.”
¥ ¥
The captain of a ship now in Melbourne
has paid three visits to the Arctic circle.
So he is well acclimatised.
¥ ¥
There was a good deal of bloodshed and
street fighting at the recent Greek elections.
It would seem that American culture is
spreading.
¥ ¥
Poetical Visitor (looking at the pile of
rejected manuscripts on the editor’s desk) :
“Ha —blasted hopes, eh !”
The Editor: “Blasted rubbish !”
¥ ¥
A visiting Indian bishop says he likes the
way Australians chat without waiting for an
introduction. We should like to warn him
against a conversation beginning: “This, of
course, is a great gold country. Have you
any notes you’d like changed into gold?”
¥ ¥
In Victoria there are more than 4,000,000
acres under wheat. We understand that an
even larger area is being sown with wild
oats.
¥ ¥
A woman, it is reported, has spent 99
years in Darlinghurst. She must stay in
at night.
¥ ¥
THIS WEEK’S FAIRY TALE.
And the jeweller examined the watch that
the customer brought in to be repaired.
“There’s not much wrong with it,” he said.
“Anyhow, it does not need cleaning!”
¥ ¥
Even the man who thought he knew all
about women before he married is liable to
find that his wife is capable of giving him
a few wrinkles.
¥ ¥
A man who recently left a fortune of
£20.000.000 started as a grindstone-seller.
Evidently kept one for himself and held his
nose to it.
One microfarad, we are told, is equal to
900 jars. Or, reduced to everyday language,
to one year of married life.
¥ ¥
The difference between an ad-man and a
city lodging-house keeper is that the ad-man
lets space.
¥ ¥
Many a domestic explosion is started by
an old flame.
¥ ¥
A skull thicker than any other ever
known, and be-
lieved to be more
than 100 years old,
was recently un-
earthed in England.
Only modesty and
the libel law re-
strain us from
men t i o ning the
name of the poli-
tician who will one
day lower that
record.
When the police-
man arrived on the
scene the car was
besieged by gesticu-
lating motorists,
whose deserted cars
clattered the local-
ity.
•‘Here, wli a t’s
the trouble?” de-
manded the Law. *
A hundred voices
answered ‘‘Shame !”
‘‘Eh?” growled
the policeman, lay-
ing a heavy hand ou
the man at the
wheel. “What have
you done?”
“They’re trying
to take me to tin;
Museum, co n-
stablc,” replied the
deli n q u ent. “I
slowed down to let
an old woman get
out of the way,”
Melbourne Safety
Council warns
motorists against driving with only one hand
on the wheel. Quite right! Many a young-
man has run into a church that way.
¥ ¥
Victorian authorities have sought the loan
of some of the Melbourne Gallery pictures
for exhibition among members of the police
force. We have a letter from a leading
crook, who protests that the police are quite
savage enough as it is.
¥ ¥
The Spanish Society for the Protection of
Animals is seeking to have motor-cycles used
in place of horses at bull-fights. Pedestrians
in place of the bulls should naturally follow’.
¥ ¥
A woman named Rumm was recently
caught stealing from a confectionery shop.
Poor woman, she took an acid-drop too
much.
¥ ¥
A recent visitor from America boasts
that his firm sells false eyes by the gross.
Yet another American concern that makes a
fortune by its lofty eye-deals.
ALONE IN THE WORLD.
“You oughtn’t to say such naughty words.
You’re getting a big boy, and ought to
set a good example to your little
brothers and sisters."
“But I haven’t got any little brothers and
sisters. I’m the only children we’ve
got.”
A safe has been invented which automati-
cally rings a bell and takes a photo of the
safe-breaker, suitable for printing in the
papers. Mrs. Social Climber has written to
our Service Department asking if there are
any vacancies in the Burglars’ Union.
SNICKERED.
Some said that lie was “blithered,”
And others colled him "shot”
Or “tanked ” or “ boozed” or “blotto,”
Or else he’d “had a pot”;
The nicest people pursed their lips :
“The man’s inebriated!”
“He’s much the worse for liquor,”
Or “Dear m c—in toxicated !”
The skipper off the liner said
“The fellow’s half-seas over”:
The tar, “He’s three sheets in the wind”;
The farmer, “He’s in clover.”
But whether it is “tight” yon be.
“Well lit” or “full to bust.”
Or “lathered,” “soaked,” or “speechless,”
“blind,”
Or “well and truly trussed,”
Or “all beared up” or even “stung,”
Or “razzled,” “brimming.” “sunk,”'
The missus has the truth of it;
“You low-down brute — you're drunk!”
N.S.W.
DORIC.
I passed hy your window
When morning was nigh,
Before you had time
Malcc-up to apply;
Your hair was in curlers,
Your face looked aghast,
Your teeth were discarded —
No wonder I passed!
N.S.W.
DORIC.
SPRING!
(Another spring poet—the 78th —lets himself go.)
Now Spring again puts her jazz . garters on,
And girds her in a handkerchief or so;
Note hards (the line ones) twang the harp
upon
Whatever instruments they play helow.
Now wagtails wag, and snails regale them-
selves
Voraciously among my blooms, and vie
With moths among the hooks upon my
shelves,
And tram-guards, bored by lcnee-knobs,
fade and die.
Now flappers flap, and flap exceedingly,
And hand old Mother Grundy saucy
shrugs;
It seems but right I also glad should be,
Inspired by thugs, slugs, shrugs—and also
mugs.
N.S.W.
HOMFREY BEALE.


■%>
£2
JO
r m
ft
n
,ix»r
v
(O
nr
%
T 2
y//
u
r
"S
mu^
<&
W J
t
,V"
The Ringer
«T\AVE over there—he’s the ringer of the
**** shed.”
"By 'ringer’ you mean...?”
"The star barber. Shearing’s like everything
else—there’s always one standing out head and
shoulders above the rest. Just the same as whisky,
to bring in a comparison that’s nearer home.”
"Ah, spare my blushes! And while we’re on the
subject, may I ask the boys to join me ?”
"Certainly! There’s nothing they’d like better.
They’re rough diamonds but they do appreciate
a drop of fine old Scotch.”
JOHNNIE
WALKER
Born 1820-
Still going Strong
1
busy meeting old
eJustralianjriends
m
sii* t) FI
,>JNT 6fUo2i
The appeal of "Johnnie
Walker” is universal,
due to the strict main-
tenance of high quality
for over a century.
JOHN WALKER 8C SONS LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, London and Kilmarnock


JONATHAN PARKIN
Captain, Brit sh Rugby League Team,
Sponsored by a Famous Athlete!
Messrs. Rocke, Tompsitt, & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
292 Flinders Street,
Melbourne, Vic.
The Doncaster Hotel.
Sydney,
25th July, 1928.
Dear Sirs,—l enclose an order for a further supply
of Yeaston Tablets. On reaching Australia my
team at first felt the effects of the change of climate
and their particularly strenuous programme. A
short course of Yeaston Tablets restored our per-
sonal fitness and assured complete freedom from
minor ailments throughout the team. I intend
to keep a supply for the remainder of the tour.
Yours faithfully,
British Rugby League Team Touring Australia, 1928.
°»'C Pn J eC *
°od
if e
Bottles of 36, 2/3
Bottles of 100, 4/9
Write for the wonderful Yeas•
ton booklet to “Yeaston”
Box 2682 EE. Q.P.O. Sydney.
Look for the letters
R O X
which are stamped
on each genuine
Yeaston Tablet.
Poverty
Point
“Kayeff”: Asides that get on the air
through the broadcaster failing to remember
that the microphone is still switched on can
he more than merely embarrassing. On a
sweltering hot day an announcer was plug-
ging through a solid list of birthday greetings,
presents for little Willies, little Georgie
must wash his ears, and similar stuff. Reach-
ing the end of the list he thankfully closed
down with, “Good-night, everybody. Go to
bed now. Nighty-night. Goo-00-00-d night.”
Then he turned to his offsider and said,
“There, Bill, that ought to put the little
boasts to bed. What about a beer?” The
storm subsequently raised by the parents of
the little beasts was so severe that the an-
nouncer went after another job.
“L.IT.P”: Reading a Glasgow paper the
other day I was reminded that it was 100
years in August since the Scottish Court
of Session affirmed the right of the dis-
satisfied theatregoer to hiss a show. The case
arose out of an incident in the Glasgow
Royal in 1827, when tin? manager ejected
a member of the pit. Unfortunately, the
victim was a lawyer; also, he was innocent
of hissing. The magistrates awarded dam-
ages to the offended lawyer, but the manager
carried the matter to the Court of Session,
lie lost the appeal, and it was declared
that the playgoer was free to express his
feelings by applause or the other thing.
“Cauboy”: In Melbourne anew movement
for. resuscitating the apparently-drowned
drama starts up and fades away almost
every week. The latest is the Gong Theatre
Chib, and it doesn’t err on the side of
modesty. It claims to be the first professional
intimate theatre in the Southern Hemisphere.
It is going to have its own playhouse, pay
its members salaries and stage productions
continuously. To the Gong Theatre “poverty
is no handicap” because it “is rich in ideas
—in brains.” As usual, it is out to support
Australian playwrights, so perhaps it is an
accident that none is mentioned in the list
of forthcoming productions. The Gong is
going to produce a play every night through-
out the year, including the summer, and
every play is to run a fortnight, regardless,
apparently, of whether an audience attends
or not. Even the Firm has never thought
of anything as original as that.
“Good Australian” : In January, 1901, dur-
ing the Commonwealth celebrations, a theatri-
cal representation was given of the landing of
Captain Cook at Botany Bay, the part of
Cook being taken by Alfred Dampier. Every-
thing was ready for the ceremony, and as
tin 1 thousands who flocked from Sydney to
witness it looked on a boat was seen to put
off from the Endeavour, lying some distance
from the bay. When the boat reached the
shore a sailor jumped out, rushed over to
the late William Lyne and handed him a
note. It was from Alfred Dampier, and
read: “Dear Sir William, the crew of the
Endeavour are very thirsty, and unless we
receive a case of champagne very soon I
fear I shall be obliged to respectfully decline
to discover Australia!”
“N.P.”: If only the two noble Dames
who have been pained by the suggestion
that either of them ever advocated a low
standard of music in Australian programmes
—if only they had stuck to their guns.
It is not worth while examining our status
in detail; the general fact is that we do
let visiting stars sing and play anything
they please, instead of hooting when they
sing us muck. We toady to well-known
names and lovely frocks, not asking what
is to be on the programme. At the same
time, the institutions that might build up a
better knowledge of permanent music among
us arc neglected to the point of death. What
exactly has been contributed, after over a
year’s hard canvassing, towards the Million
Shillings Fund for a Melbourne symphonv
orchestra?
■‘Hamfat” : As a merry-go-round proprietor
and sidc-sliowman old Lauret, who has died
whilst revisiting his native France, had a
wider fame even than “Sovereign” Smith.
The man who decorated himself with gold
coins kept to Manly, but Lauret toured the
whole of N.S.W. and visited Queensland and
Victoria. lie made much money out of it.
and, as Smith did in the Manly district, in-
vested it in property that made him rich.
He gave liberally to war efforts, and helped
to organise a lot of them.
“Caesar’s Ghost” : Meta Pelham, one of the
old inhabitants of the stage, made a com-
paratively late start in the footlights business
—she was 20 and a mother when she made
her first appearance. All but one of her six
children also invaded the stage, but subse-
quently left it. Mrs. Scott Siddons gave Meta
her first part, lent her a wardrobe and re-
hearsed her privately; later she was with
Mrs. G. B. Lewis. At 50 she went to Lon-
don. got her diploma from the Academy
of Dramatic Art, and. after a struggle in
the provinces, secured her first .London
appearance, with II. B. Irving. Though 78,
(lie plucky lady is still going strong.
“St. John’s Wood” (Lond.) : Every Lon-
don paper has called William Mollison’s
engagement to Joan Clarkson a “romance.”
They met two years ago, when Mollison was
selecting the cast for “The Gold Diggers,” in
which she was given a part. Really, there is
nothing at all unusual in their marriage,
which can likewise be said of Joy Butt Rum-
ford’s matrimonial venture, also heralded as
a “romance.” Since Mollison was in Aus-
tralia he has become one of the most success-
ful of London’s producers, and as partici-
pant in the financial risk of his principals,
Herbert Clayton and Jack Waller, has
reaped a rich monetary harvest from their
sn ccesscs.
“Ula” : John Brownlee (B. 29/8/’28) was
more fortunate in being helped along than
fellow-Victorian Browning Mummery. Land-
ing in England nearly eight years ago with-
out money, friends or an introductory letter,
Mummery was without work for nearly a
ALEC CARROLL, of Melb. Princess,
doyen of Melbourne house-managers,
approves of one of his own shows.
year. Eventually Pitt, conductor at Covent
Gardens, gave him a hearing; an engage-
ment with the British National Opera fol-
lowed and lasted for three and a half years.
He appeared with Melba in Txmdon in “La
Bohhme,” and Melba was so impressed by his
showing that she selected him for the Aus-
tralian season.
“E.E.W.”: A column of laudatory notice
given by Brookes Atkinson, of the New
York Times, on the premiere of Harrison
Owen’s play, “The Happy Husband,” re-
minds me that the piece was loudly pro-
claimed as being part of the Boucicau'lt pro-
gramme on their arrival, but was not brought
to light. Were we credited with being too
casual to appreciate our own playwrights?
The New York critic remarked that while
“such comedies are written with sustained
brilliance, the theatre need not fear screen or
book competition.” Melbourne, which at time
of writing is enduring several American enter-
tainments of dubious quality, is about ripe
for the production of some such theatrical
fare as “The Happy Husband.”
OTHER MENS WIVES." AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Edgar Norfolk as Detective de Brett, and.
Francis Lister as Anthony Peel—the
part which he left. The Firm has
begun a lawsuit against Lister.
“Hamfat”: Albert Bruntnell, now a
N.S.W. Minister of the Crown, was once a
Salvationist, and Salvationists have no love
for theatricals; nevertheless his daughter
Lucille is making a career in the entertain-
ment business. Irene Vanbrugh advised her
some time back to go to London and study,
and she has struck a special line in “one-
woman” shows, following the example of the
American girl Rutli Draper, for whom she
has written some sketches. The young lady
is back in Australia now, and is likely to
have some local appearances.
“C.R.”: Since Bulletin critic Edmund
Fisher died the most exact and copious
theatrical memory in Melbourne reposes
under the bat of" Alec Carroll, who started
as an usher at the Princess and is now its
manager. Carroll’s personal experience of
the stage goes back to 1880, when he ap-
peared in a performance of “Pinafore” by
the juveniles of Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis’s one-
time celebrated Academy _of Music, which
occupied the present position of the Bijou..
“Adsum” : The Firm will have Count and
Countess Filippini to thank for operatic
spade work in Perth if they pay heavy taxes
on their coming inaugural opera season
in Groperland. Until the stolid little Count
and his talented counductress spread the
melodies of Verdi and Bizet around a year
ago the West had had only the candies of
Sullivan and the jumpy saccharine of Ger-
shwin. The plucky Italians scooped a
thousand or so out of a fortnight’s show,
but they lost most of it later in Melbourne.
“Avon”: One bright Saturday morning in
Christchurch (M.L.) I met Charlie Blake,
who used to be with Bland Holt and has
been dead many years. I expected a touch;
but no. He shone like a peacock and car-
ried a heavy kitbag. “Wliat’s the lurk,
Charles?” I asked. He took me by the arm.
“Real estate, laddie,” he boomed. “Real
estate!” Pointing a gold-banded walking-
stick at the top of the most expensive pre-
mises in the street, he proceeded to tell me
—and many bystanders—how a syndicate
was going to tear down that building to
make room for a modern 14-storey hotel. He
had evidently steeped himself in his subject,
and his oration, which lasted quite five
minutes, collected a big crowd, at least half
composed of women and girls who gaped
upward, their chins tilting higher and higher
as he described the glories of each successive
tier. Then, as the traffic cop sauntered
over, Charlie downed his stick, opened his
bag with a flourish and sent a shower of
leaflets among the crowd. They opened with
the words “When you gaze upward and
dealt with the beauty of the female neck.
Charlie was selling a pomade that was guar-
anteed to smooth out every wrinkle and re-
duce the reddest skin to a lily-white, and
he began to rake in a shower of shillings.
When the cop wanted to know what tor,
Charlie produced a street-hawker’s license
and the Government Analyst’s certificate
that the stuff was good for the skin. He
told me later it cost him a penny for the
jar, a halfpenny for the labels and a farthing
for the contents.
“Tozer” : It is not only to Howard Hitch-
cock, M.L.C., that John. Brownlee owes
his start on the ladder of operatic fame
(R. 29/8/’28). The people of Geelong,
where lie hails from, subscribed something
like £500 towards his expenses on the other
side. The same citizens gave bandmaster
Percy Jones the opportunity to study abroad.
Percy now conducts the St. Augustine’s
Orphanage Band and the Geelong Municipal
Band.
“L.II.P.”: I agree with “Caesar's Ghost”
(B. 5/9/’28) re unnecessarily long inter-
vals. Compare the short intervals of Bland
Holt’s spectacular productions with- the re-
cent grand-opera spells. Bland hardly gave
you time to smoke a fag ere the rag. was
up on an act, notwithstanding that six or
seven .elaborate shifts of scenery were made.
“Trevdee” : While thumping at the piano
the other evening I heard a noise like coins
bring jingled whenever I struck a certain
note. It made me curious, and I called the
wife to strike the note while I searched the
room. After five minutes I discovered two
single shillings lying in a metal vase some
distance away, and apparently trying to har-
monise with the piano. After I put them
in my pocket the noise ceased —so did the
piano, for the hour was not yet six.
“St. John’s Wood” (Bond.) : That one of
the Geddes brothers, who figured so conspicu-
ously in public affairs during the, war,
should have shouldered the financial re-
sponsibility of au anti-war play in London,
has made many think. The drama is "The
Enemy,” by Channing Pollock, the scene
being laid in Central Europe. It shows the
futility and horror of war, and, like the
other peace play, “Spread Eagle.” now run-
ning to large audiences at the New- Theatre,
it ruthlessly exposes the phantom causes
invented to promote conflict. The Geddes
influence was sufficient to induce the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury and the Prime Minister
to attend the first performance. The play
is well acted, with Rosalinde Fuller, Horace
Hodges and Sam Livesay in the leading
parts, and it was favorably criticised.
“Raupo”: “Craiser” (B. 22/8/’28) refers
to the successes of “Australian Lance Fair-
fax” in “Hit the Deck.” Lance was born
in Napier, and spent all his life in Maori-
land until he went to the war with the
Second Canterbury Regiment. If that makes
him an Australian, I’m an Arab, having
spent a month or so in Egypt.
“Spangles” : For a long time it has been
periodically announced that the famous
clown Grock, who is under contract to
appear in Australia on the Tivoli circuit,
was packing his kit in preparation for a
voyage this way, but that is as far as it
ever gets. The reason may lie in a recent
announcement by Grock that he would never
revisit Britain in any circumstances. He
commands a vast salary, and what the
British Inland Revenue Commissioners did
to him in the way of income-tax on liis only
visit has shaken him to his socks. So acute
a. financier can hardly have failed to appre-
ciate the fame the Australian income-tax
officials have acquired in the matter of
skimming the fat off the profits of visiting
artists —the screams of more than one Ameri-
can pugilist, still linger in the memory—and
it is good betting that Crock's flattering
opinion of Australia’s population and har-
bors will never be chronicled in the press.
“Cine Ma”: Bernard Shaw's adventure
with the speaking film is not his first en-
counter with the movies. One of the eminen-
tissimos of Hollywood wrote asking him for
a scenario. Not content with a plain request,
the movie man went on to describe what, in
his opinion, would make an ideal film. Ir.
should contain five elements —religion, humor,
society, action and sex appeal. In due
course the Pshaw scenario arrived. It read :
“ ‘My God,’ giggled the Countess, ‘let go
of my leg.’ ”
“O. Kay”: Australia is making headway-
in the film industry. During the past two
years more than a dozen pictures have been
produced, at least one of which was in
the highest class. Now three or fouff com-
panies are in the field, and their productions
include “The Far Paradise,” “Caught in the
Net,” “The Grey Glove,” “The Rushing
Tide,” “The Adorable Outcast” and “Bor-
rowed Plumes.” Others listed for release
are “The Russell Affair,” “Sanctuary” and
“Pearl of the Pacific.” The last is a Fine
Art (Sydney) production —-this company
has plans and capital in hand for the making
of four films annually.
IN THE SMALLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Allan Wilkie is about to give Canberra its first
taste of Snakspeaie.”
i'Y.r Horn to Orkneys, so to speak,‘he’s gone,
The deathless soul with the “victorious
brow,”
Avon’s inimitable bard and swan.
From dawn to dark, anti-Baconian, thou
May’st gaze on him and his creations now
As round about Macquarie-street you potter.
But ne’er before did Hamlet make his bow
On any stage adjacent to the Cotter.
I fo! Civil servant, cynical and wan
And prone to designate the place “a cow.’
Heart up! You shall set* Caesar bleed anon
And gallant Borneo his love avow.
And bully Bottom and his mates pow-wow,
And Sliylock counted out —the scheming
plotter—
And Falstaff make his usual tipsy row —
All within easy distance of the Cotter.
What though no opera stars upon you shone,
And daily through your grinding tasks you
plough
Crumbling you may not dimpled Toti con
And give a cultured verdict upon how
She warbles; though you deemed your
home a slough
And you cut off as any backblocks squatter
From Thespian joys, here’s substitute
enow:
Cood Allan Shakspeare’s heading for the
Cotter.
Producers Canberra's claims who disallow
To entertainment and no dates allot her,
'Twill be another pair of sleeves, I trow,
Now Shakspeare’s pegs arc in beside the
Cotter.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
WAGONS-UTS CO.
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
fs
Sailing Lists , Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS.
COOK AND
SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildirr
(Next G.P.0.).
■
JOHN JAMESON
★ ★ ★
WHISKEY
ALL JOHN JAMESON'S
Dublin Whiskey is made
from the finest procurable
malt and barley, and dis-
tilled by the same ex-
pensive process that the
Jamesons used in 1780.
This is the secret of its
wonderful smoothness and
ripe, rich distinctive
flavour. Drink it slowly,
and taste it carefully 1
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
B. SEPPELT & SONS, LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
PERKINS & CO., LTD., BRISBANE, Q.
MILNE A CO., PERTH, W.A.
SOCIAL PROBLEMS
*
Or\
S
I\l|/
hC
V.
V.
L
‘v_>
A, having just sent to the post, among other letters, an ardent declaration
of his passion to the one girl in the world, discovers the envelope in which
it should have been enclosed still upon his desk.
What should A do ?
Needless to say the answer is - - LIGHT AN ABDULLA.
superb Cigarettes
TURKISH EGYPTIAN VIRGINIA


Hudson Super-Six Landau Saloon
(Five Seater)
All New Costly
Car Details
Higher radiator with
vertical lacquered radia-
tor shutters.
Wider, heavier mud-
guards.
Colonial type head-
lamps and saddle-type
6ide lamps.
Four-wheel brakes, the
type used on the most
expensive cars.
Silenced body construc-
tion.
Wider doors, for easv
entry and exit.
Worm and tooth disc
design steering mechan-
ism.
Electro-lock type of theft
protection.
Fine grade patterned
mohair upholstery.
Wider, higher, form-
fitting seats.
New instrument board,
finished in polished
ebony grouping motom-
eter, ammeter, speedom-
eter, fuel and oil gauges.
Steering wheel of black
hard rubber with steel
core, and finger-scal-
loped ; a detail of costly
car appointment.
Horn-button on Steer-
ing Wheel.
Kubber-matted running
board.
HUDSON
Turned the World
to Enclosed Cars
Hudson invented and developed the coach
and turned the world to enclosed cars.
Hudson has proved the consistency of its lead-
ership in more than one way. It was the first
to build a car at moderate price that gave truly
great performance, smoothness and reliability.
Hudson invented the exclusive Super-Six prin-
ciple that enjoys such firmly established fame
throughout the world to-day.
It achieved a distinct advance in combining
the Super-Six principle with a companion in-
vention that turns waste heat into power—-the
most efficient combination within our knowl-
edge in the development of power transmission.
The engineering and manufacturing resources
responsible for these and other great advance-
ments are expressed again in Hudson’s leader-
ship of mode.
See, examine and ride in the new Hudson
Super-Six. It will revise your whole knowledge
of automobile values.
/ HUDSON.
127 in. Models.
Five Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment,
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Ilobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


e /i
*<ed
Model 855.
Model 855. Straight
back style modelled on the
latest lines, in splendid wear-
ing cnutil. Fancy barmen
top with reinfort ement over
busk. Four artificial silk
suspenders. In dove or white.
Sizes 24-32 inches. 0.5., 33-
40 inches.
Model 131. New
style for sports or dancing
wear, no boning, very
fancy material. Made in
pink. Sizes 23-30 inches.
Model 1256.
Model 1256. —A
round corset in brochC
Reinforced elastic on
Light in weight. In
Sizes 24-36 inches.
wrap-
batiste.
hips.
pink.
Ask Your
Corsetiere to Show
You Twilfit Models
RETAILERS who realise that corsets are not a
relic of last century—that they are more
important now than ever before—that they
settle the lit and look of woman’s clothes and
the daily comfort she enjoys—these retailers will
Stock ‘ ‘ Twilfitm ”
et Twilfft ” Corsets are Good—they have excl a
sive features that make them conform to fashion
very comfortably, and their workmanship, material
and finish conform to the highest standard of
British production.
Distributors for Australia;
LYALL WILLIS & CO. LTD.,
London, England.
AGENTS:
Melbourne Baldwin & Slattery Pty., Ltd.
Adelaide . . Arthur Giover. Perth L. M. Cullen & Co.
NT.I
Where can I buy beautiful china ?
In the shop that sells Shelley China, is the answer. A
Shelley Tea Set has the rare purity of colour that made
Staffordshire china world-famous. The Shelley Cups
of beautiful form—light,- thin, elegant, strong—are a
pleasure to use; and every hostess loves a Shelley set for
the modest splendour that it imparts to Afternoon Tea.
As\ to see the latest Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Dainty White China,
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel Lucie Attwell and Hilda Cowhaw,
CHINA
Look for the name Shelleq on each piece of Chino
P 33?
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN ’ takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Pigcat”; Randolph Bedford may be right
about the waste of millions of tons of molas-
ses; but although the stuff, in dehydrated
blocks, has been boomed as a stock fodder
for years, it proved sadly disappointing
during the ’26 pinch. Its only virtue is as an
appetiser. In combination with other fodders
it does a little good; but alone, or as the
chief ingredient, it is useless.
* * * *
"Jobber”; Last week I had my first ride
on Sydney’s electric train and noticed that
the seat had been branded “Made in U.S.A.”
Isn’t there a workshop, railway or otherwise,
in this State that can turn out a seat for
a train?
❖ # * *
“S.T.S.” : South Australia drank last year
well over 6,000,000 gallons of beer, which is
lli gallons per head, and, considering the
many children and others who don’t touch it,
must mean a generous allowance for those
who do. Also the wine-growing State drank
three quarts of that per head, as against
one-third of a gallon of spirits.
* sic * *
“N.K.”: Victorian sheep-breeders are per-
turbed at the decision of the State Govern-
ment to impose a duty of 2d. per head on
all sheep killed, to defray losses incurred by
the four co-operative country freezing com-
panies known as the Amalgamated Freezing
Co. Since these works freeze rabbits and
other commodities, sheepmen are asking why
they have been specially selected to carry the
baby. The Vic. Government is already at
loggerheads with the Queensland beef-growers
owing to the restrictions recently imposed on
the importation of chilled beef from the
northern State, and has now succeeded in
raising up some foes of its own household.
❖ Sjs Sjs s|e
“H.W.S.” : The Launceston (Tas.) branch
of the A.N.A. decided that, instead of talking
about preference to Australian goods gener-
ally, it would take up one particular line
and see what it could do to help sales. It
commenced with matches. Local retailers
were interviewed and Melbourne manufac-
turers approached; then the public was
asked to buy the Australian article. The
NOT QUITE THE RIGHT SORT.
BERGSTEIN (to Aaronsohn, who has been complaining
of bad times): “Veil, veil, vy doan’dt you put
Moses in de office? ’E’s oldt enough. ’E’s
attained ’is majority, ain’dt he?”
AARONSHON: “Dot’s righdt! But it ain’dt a vorkin’
majority!”
campaign was a great success. Where three
packets of imported matches were formerly
sold to one packet of Australian, the propor-
tion has now been reversed. Also, the people
who buy Australian matches are now asking
for other Australian goods.
* * =s= *
“Bill Ding” : Australian architects are all
swinging into line with substitutes for timber
in all new constructional work, including
steel frames for doors and window sashes;
and a lot of the steel framing is coming
from abroad. Even in Westralia, with
its numerous mills threatened with short
time, the architects are pushing this steel
substitute into every new building. The
owner will tell you that he gets a smaller
insurance bill, and that maintenance costs for
repairs and painting are a bagatelle com-
pared with wood. And, after all, the man who
pays usually has the last word.
* * * *
“Wingella”: Why not use our own native
kapok? It grows wild in the N.T. jungles,
and the supply is practically inexhaustible.
There is no need to import one ounce of
kapok into Australia.
“C.Q.”: A variant of the hawker nuisance
in Melbourne is a man who is calling on
suburban housewives peddling notices; “No
hawkers need apply at this house.”
sJj
“Salmo”: Maoriland, which was tremen-
dously bucked a couple of years ago when it
was found that the Canadian Quinnat
salmon had at last been established in its
waters, is already seriously considering the
necessity for safeguarding the valuable im-
portation. Last year, eight netting licenses
were granted, but these have since been re-
duced to four. The salmon was intro-
duced after a lot of expense and trouble,
the ultimate object being the establishment of
a canning industry like that which is such a
source of profit to Canada and the west
coast of America. The Government has
undertaken to prohibit netting, if it is found
necessary, for a substantial period.
“Ashmead”: Touching “Ironbark’s” par.
(B. 5/9/’2B) about the slaughter of game in
the Speck. At Campbelltown the other night
two men arrived at the pub where I was
staying, and proceeded to refresh themselves.
One of them told me that they had collected
£7BO for ten weeks’ work. This was con-
firmed by the pubkeeper, who said that last
year the cheque was just on £IOOO. “We go
solid all the time the season is open,” the
trapper said. “The bush up there is thick
with game; and yet they’re talking of shut-
ting down on snaring altogethex-. They’re
mad. ’Ave another glass of fizz.”
:!: * * *
“Miro”; Although for some time black
rabbits have been bred for their pelts in
Maoriland, the information that the Govern-
ment is allowing the importation of Angora
rabbits for their wool and Chinchillas for
their fur has created some apprehension.
Districts that have spent years in fighting
the common or garden rabbit threaten to
destroy any new varieties that may penetrate
their territory. The importers haughtily
reply that such aristocrats as the Angora
and the Chinchilla would die if they escaped
and had to forage for themselves. In any
case, as the initial shipment is costing £ISOO,
it is probable that a pretty sharp eye will be
kept on them.
* * * *
“Mouton” : The bride’s problem in select-
ing a decent piece of meat (B. 29/8 / ’2B)
has been intensified by recent anatomical
changes in the butcher’s wares. In my
neighborhood, for instance, anew kind of
brisket has come on the market, strung up
in nice long rolls and without any bone
in it. We used to call it flank, and it was
much cheaper than brisket, but I heard a
meatman yesterday declaring he had never
heard the word flank. Simultaneously, short
ribs have ceased to exist. All ribs are long
ribs nowadays, and the price corresponds.
Joined to the- silverside apd the topside
there used to be a fleshy lump of beef we
called top rump, or thick flank, some pence
per lb. cheaper than rump proper, but seem-
ingly bullocks no longer wear top rump to
the ' shambles. “It’s just rump, missus.”
The jumbuck, too, has sustained changes;
for example, to-day’s unchewable bit of loin
chop formerly belonged to the breast of mut-
ton. But as loin chops sell
for somewhere about a shil
ling per lb. and breasts for
a few pence, it has been pro-
moted.
* * *
“Carrick, A.B.”: Perhaps
the total disappearance of tlm
windjammer is further oil
than most people believe.
Germany, at any rate, is
■still building four-masted
barques—three of them are
now on the stocks. These
ships, primarily intended as
training ships for apprentices
for the mercantile marine,
are also designed with an
eye to dividends; like the
Herzogin Cecilie, they have
space for four or five thou-
sand tons of cargo, and, with
favorable winds, they will
make fast passages on the
Chile nitrate and Australian
wheat runs. And a well-
found, fast windjammer can
still show a handsome profit;
the Herzogin Cecilie has _re-
turned more than the £-1500
her Finnish owners paid for
her in a single voyage, after
deducting all expenses.
* * *
“D.”: The Vic. Legislative
Ass. is at last tackling the
cash-order system, develop-
ments of which have been re-
sponsible for more impotent
blasphemy amongst house-
fathers than any similar con
fidence trick. A common
abuse is for an employoe
(usually a female) to ask the
employer to sign a cash order
for a small sum—say, £5
She needs the money for
clothes, and promises to re-
duce the debt by degrees out
of her wages. It looks a safe
bet, and the employer thinks no more
of the transaction, as a rule, till the
lady leaves and he finds he is respon-
sible for £ls, or £2O. or even more. The
catch is a clause tucked away in a corner
of the contract, the legal effect of which
is to make the signer responsible for as
much as the shop thinks he is capable of
paying. Of course, not all cash-order con-
cerns go in for this swindle —one which
makes signing a cash-order infinitely more
dangerous than backing a bill —but enough
of it goes on to make legislation highly de-
sirable.
**, * *
“Fulmen” : The N.S.W. Workers’ Compen
sation Commission has had no mor" cur'ons
claim before it than that brought by a Syd-
ney workman the other day. lie asked for 10
days’ wag“s for incapacitation, and got an
order for £5 15s. 6d. as the result of having
been struck by lightning at a brickworks,
the metal platform on which he stood while
at work on the kiln being held to have con-
duced to the arrival of the electric spark.
* ❖ ❖ :H
“Nuces”: In 1926 representations were
made to the Commonwealth authorities for
an embargo on peanuts grown by colored
labor. The prohibition was granted after an
undertaking had been given by the Queens-
land Peanut Board that sufficient acreage
would be planted to satisfy Australian re-
quirements. The embargo was lifted in
October. 1927, when the increased produc-
tion had mounted from practically nothing
to an annual £IOO.OOO or thereabouts. Its
setting aside allowed some 500 tons of
Chinese and Javanese kernels to displace
Australian-grown nuts, and locally-produced
crops to that amount were sold at a loss of
£26.000. The growers have erected at Kin-
garoy an up-to-date storage and treatment
plant costing £37,000; that £26,000 would
have gone a long wav towards defraying
the cost of the plant. The vacillation of the
Federal Government in matters of Protection
is maddening.


0
O
1
M
M
r
mmmm
■ft!
V/
sms
m
BOS
itj/S
■m
i7i.vaJ.Av*
figP^pgjgß
I
SMMHHI
52*
rrca
&
■rosv
fc&f
ffi
'l2-y-* <*&?
mz
mm
.'LL
V--'
4 P
if?®
O
i&ve
N.
*^r
I. t
f\skl
iS&x
MW
A
J
5
• .
7
K '«<
si®
ISfex-.
"TP
Lr
flrafol
W.'-V:H:OV,<
KJ2
S.M
mm
m
Ma
wmik
:mm
SM
t 9 J&%
rs
h-M:
m
piyw«*
£3
s^<T
mm
wv
ra
m%n
m
;-r 1
f. it. k'.?r-V '^•Seffi'.'
.X
■ft*
I'M
IN
i ? *H
fij
<>»
gQ
If
$
hrq*
r?
•' -
4^
r^«®Ss
s*
tfU/f
pc?
>
<3
iZP.
353&!535a&
as
SS!ffl
m
m.
fat
pmpK
*•^s4*s*3
rv\\\
Ws%mm
m
',V,'r,. r
<lAm?hxAr^:h
X' c A'A ?-. ?? '&b-^\ ?*. v P^VvV
$3&?3,
wSBbdBZ^aUL.
P»|
V-P- ; s?uss
/ \
PM
t.e.flett
i >.
L'"'
f&V*;. •
can
sss#f«-
fCT
lIU^
e d Vs
* eo !
* S t o-
to° s ra Y>V& c * . u c d
-ry^e ca , eV e . fi*' vsU sta'
VJV
d»*
: r >^ u, : e co^
t^°^ tvC d VoW^ eUte \
-nlaV nv^
iVotv W *><«
»£*°-
d toU '
- ._ cet' 1 ' 1 , ,„\veSi
cot^ 1 ?; \et* aX ’. ov?^
-rttvs^’f a o4,Vr a* sV, ° C
SP eak £49 • 10 ‘
*A°f~c • ' ’ v\ s ? eaVe
. £43 •■ l ° ‘
tt o
tbe
atv '
ea tVy
0
One dial sweeps the air
as a searchlight sweeps the sky
“npo give you the Station you want as you want to hear it”
Jj ... that is the aim of Atwater Kent... an aim which, in
its fulfilment, has resulted in the establishment of the
world’s largest radio factory.
Here, under ideal conditions, are produced those amazingly
efficient one dial sets that have brought the delights of per-
fect radio reception into more than one million homes.
One dial! Just picture the ease of operation this means to
you ! There are no secondary devices to manipulate. The
fingers of one hand, in conjunction with one simple radio
component, quickly bring you station after station with
clarity and truthfulness. Every sound comes to you without
the slightest deviation from the original.
Don’t experiment with inferior, more complicated sets.
Choose an Atwater Kent “One Dial,” and enjoy to the full
the remarkably varied entertainment Radio offers you to-day.
Inserted by the Atwater Kent Manufacturing Co., Philadelphia,
U.S.A., on behalf of Australian A.K. Radio Dealers. Australian
Wholesale Distributors: A. G. Healing, Ltd. Dealers Everywhere.
For latest free literature on ATWATER KENT, write to A. G. HEALING, LTD., 167-173 Franklin Street, Melbourne;
27 Hyde Street, Adelaide; 208-210 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
(PATON)^ V" x//
ASK YOUR. RADIO DEALER. TO SHOW YOU NEW MODELS BY ATWATER KENT-1


World’s Pigeon Championship.
Melbourne Gun Club, July 6, 1923.
Ist. W. BAULDERSTONE (S.A.).
3rd. “CALROSSIE” (Vic.).
Both used
W. W. GREENER
GUNS.
There is no better
Shooting Gun made.
Procurable from all GUN DEALERS.
Catalogues on Application.
Wholesale Representatives;
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY„ LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE, C.l.
Don't wish for the Best—get it.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
AN OLD “SPOT” MELLOWED BY AGE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney.
[L
“WILD WEST'
A Qreat Big Wide Leaf Hat
to Wear between Sunrise
and Sunset.
Pure Fur Felt; leaf
3141n5. wide will
30/-
not sag; High Crown, p ns . p,.„
will stand all weathers.
Mail to Desk “5.8.” State Size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LTD.
In 2ueen Street, Brisbane.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
At Rosehill on Saturday Sion brilliantly
won the Camellia Stakes, a feat performed
last year by his elder brother Vaals before
that fine horse captured the Epsom Handi-
cap and the V.R.C. Cantala Stakes. Vai Is
had a hard race in his Camellia Stakes,
Aorangi (third in the Epsom) running him
to a neck; but Sion came right away from
a good field, to beat Black Duchess (14 to
1) and Stage Saint (20 to 1) in the end.
by two lengths and a head in lmin.
And Munro obviously had a good bit in re-
serve. So the chestnut son of Valais—Galtee
Queen is now favorite for the Epsom, as he
deserves to be. With the backing of Anambah
(5 to 2), Cimabue, Fuji San (each 6 to 1)
and Don Moon (7 to 1), who were all well
beaten, he went out at sevens, and it was a
good price considering his recent forim Of
Sion’s opponents on Saturday Avant Courier,
who got away badly, seems to be the only one
with a possible chance of turning the tables
in the Epsom.
Mollison’s ability to go the Derby dis-
tance has still to be demonstrated, but in the
Rosehill Guineas, for which his price was
2 to 1 on, he proved himself not only bril-
liant but game. As at Warwick Farm the
Queensland-bred gelding was first away, but
Toohey took Ramulus (7 to 1) up to him
almost immediately and the pair ran side by
side for several furlongs. “The favorite’s
beat” was shouted when Daniels was seen
to give Mollison a few smart cuts, but a
furlong from home the crack had shaken off
Ramulus, who ran out wide under pressure,
and, with Daniels easing him up over the
last fifty yards, he won by a length and three-
quarters. It was an excellent performance,
and after the race Mollison was at a shorter
price than ever for the A.J.C. Derby. Ros-
crea (7 to 1) was late in leaving the barrier
again, and then ran his race in snatches;
but the half-brother to Limerick came home
pretty well in third place, three lengths
behind Ramulus. Oatendale was also doing
better at the end than at any other part,
and this Rossendale colt’s condition can
be obviously improved. The nine furlongs
took lmin. 52sec.
MeCarten’s suspension (reduced from three
months to one month) enabled Toohey to get
the mount on Limerick (8 to 1 on) in the
Hill Stakes, and lie gave nervous people a
shock by letting the champion run along
at his own sweet will for a few furlongs,
until Limerick was a dozen lengths behind
the leaders. Greenline (14 to 1) and Satrap
(50 to 1). However, he caught them
rapidly when Toohey moved on him, and
won as the Sydney public is accustomed to
see him win, beating Prince Humphrey by
two lengths and Greenline by another four
lengths in lmin. 39sec. Prince Humphrey
finished like the good game colt he is, but
Raasay (25 to 1) palpably failed to stay.
The Roseliill Cup was a rough race, but
tliei’e seemed to be no excuse for. the
favorites, In the Shade (5 to 2) and Rions-
cup (7 to 2), who, well up most of the way,
failed to get a place. Bacchus (7 to 1) looked
a likely winner as they turned into the
straight, but he is not finishing with the dash
he showed this time last year, and he also
missed a place. Old Resource (12 to 1),
who is not in the Metropolitan, won nicely
by three-quarters of a length from Spearer
(25 to 1) and Lord Kennaquhair (20 to 1),
with Bacchus a close fourth ; the 11 furlongs
were, left behind in 2min. 20sec. Lord Iven-
naquhair, who was ridden a peculiar race
after being nearly caught in the barrier, was
doing a bit the best of the four at the finish
and ought to pick up a handicap at the
Randwick meetings.
*. * ❖ ❖
Readers who live in remote districts have
asked for a brief summary of this Page’s
views on the Epsom and Metropolitan that
will reach them before the races. Form
points to Sion (Bst. 41b.) for the mile and
Jocelyn (Bst. 41b.) for the mile and five,
furlongs. The only thing against Sion is
that he plays up at the barrier. He has been
considerably more tractable lately • still he
can’t afford to miss the jump-out in a race
like the Epsom. On the score of disposition
there is nothing against the mare, but per-
haps one should not forget that she went
off after one hard race in the autumn. While
greatly respecting Sion and Jocelyii, and
reckoning- them worth a saver at least, The
Bulletin is inclined to prefer Habashon
(7st. 61b.) to Vaals’s brother, for this
is a nicely-weighted and very honest four-
year-old who had rather too much bullock-
ing to do at Warwick Farm and at Tatt,’s
meeting; and for the Metropolitan it has
a strong fancy for the very lightly-weighted
Fondant (6st. 91b.), though he is not gener-
THE ALSO RAN.
DISGUSTED PUNTER: “Aw, get off the dam’ thing and put it in a prawn basket!”
a/ly considered the better of Kelso’s pair.
The double Habashon and Fondant can be ob-
tained at a fairly long price just now.
* * * *
For Hawkesburv on Saturday
1! or HawkesDury on ftatuinay.
Park Stakes: Good and Gay; next, Cygon.
High weight Handicap: Dina tic 1 next,
Leadight. _ , ..
Flying Handicap: Lord Romeo; next,
Roseau
Spi'ing Handicap: Sharp Sou; next, Glea .
Boy. ~ TT ,
ihree-year-old Handicap: Renoir; next,
Kavalli.
Rowley Mile: Colmera; next, Jazz Baby,
* * * *
Merab is apparently not so good as was
thought in Adelaide at the beginning of the
season. In the Port Adelaide Guineas
K. E. H. Hope’s colt had to strike his colors
to two fillies, Yassmin and Mount of Olives.
Yassmin. who is owned by S. G. Robinson
and A. C. Mitchell, defeated the other young
lady by a couple of lengths, her time for
the unusual distance of 1 mile 1 furlong and
64 yards being lmin. 56see.—decidedly good
going. By Woorak—Sumurun, she is a half-
sister to Sum King and Amusement, winners
of the Queensland Cup and the A.J.C. Waver-
ley Handicap (14 furlongs) respectively, so
she should be a stayer.
Though the Moonee Valley club hung up
the nice stake of £l5OO for the Steeplechase
on Saturday, that race was less interesting to
punters than at least one of the flat races,
the Budgeree Handicap. For this there were
14 starters, and Bombard’s achievement
pleased those who reckon he has a chance
for the Melbourne Cup; Duncan forced him
through on the rails, and riding a very
strong finish landed the Spearhead gelding a
winner by a length from Sea Pilot, with
Sun Morn, who struck some trouble, a close
third. Beppinsan was favorite at 7 to 2;
Bombard was at fives and Sun Morn at
sevens. Fourth was the much-discussed Ser-
bury, who shaped rather attractively, and
Textile also ran a good race, while Spearfelt
made up a lot of ground. Bombard has Bst.
71b. in the Caulfield Cup, and Bst. 21b. in
the Melbourne Cup.
Reviser was all the rage for the Steeple,
but, jumping clumsily, was easily beaten by
old Gulyarri (12 to 1) ; another veteran in
Clan Robert was third.
Dick Bradficld, whose string had not been
in the limelight for some time, saddled up
two winners for his patron, T. M. Daskien;
the Crowdennis colt Lalique (4 to 1) scored'
easily in the Cooee Handicap for three-year-
olds, and the Magpie gelding Marsias (16
to 1) defeated the terribly unlucky Smoko
Bomb (11 to 2) in the Corroboree Handicap.
Bachelor’s Temple (15 to 1), an imported son
of Bachelor’s Double —Templeboden, won the
Nulla Nulla Welter from Blcmatic (16 to
1) and The Wensum (2 to 1) for Sol Green
and Robertson. Every favorite went down,
and most punters wished they had gone to
the football semi-final instead.
He =1: * *
“Thormanby”: The Doncaster St. Leger,
won last week by the Plialaris-Scapa Flow
colt Fairway, owned by Lord Derby, is the
oldest of the English classics, having been
founded in 1778, two years before the Derby.
The famous Town-Moor course is owned by
Doncaster Tdwn Council, which started to
cater for sportsmen, as the pony press likes
to put it, in 1681, by voting £5 ss. for added
money. The council intends to spend another
£250,000 on the Moor, making the course
tbe g negb j n England. Huge grandstands are
to be addcdi w ith a bank, a tote, a post
office and other conveniences; auxiliary tote
book i n g_ o £Q ces are to be installed all over
the course. It is to be hoped that one tra-
ditional privilege of the Doncaster burgess
will be retained—free admission to any part
£ be course _ Doncaster is in the heart of
Yorkshire, and as the Tykes dearly love any-
thing in the nature of a free show, any
attempt to cancel the ancient right of the
Doncastrians is likely to be resisted to the
last ditch and the last drop of beer,
* * * *
«Tmhqm”* Psnna Tm-f Clnh o- n< - in wpII
I: mba a lapua luit Club & ot in well
before the A.J.C. with its Spring meeting.
which was run on September 3, under
N.Q.R.A. rules “and the domestic regula-
tions” of the club, “which will be strictly
adhered to.” That last phrase is intriguing;
it suggests that Papuan racing officials, like
others in more pretentious surroundings, are
occasionally inclined to view circumstances
through rose-colored glasses. At any rate,
the old plea that racing is intended to im-
prove the breed of horses is well supported.
The programme includes six events, and
three of them, including a Maiden Plate,
are reserved for Papuan-bred prads. Evi-
dently the “imp.” label, so conspicuous in
the programmes of the big Australian clubs,
is no fetich in Papua. Prize money totalled
£lOO, with £25 for the Moresby Cup as the
big hit, so Melbourne is not going to be
allowed to go unchallenged.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Unable to stage anything sensational in the
way of big boxing, the Sydney Stadium man-
agement put on a mixed programme on Satur-
day, night before a fairly satisfactory attend-
ance. There were several thrilling four-
rounders, that between Jim Wardell and
Jack Robertson (9st. 121 b. each) bringing the
crowd to its feet in yelping ecstasy. Wardell
got a points decision. The 15-rounds go
between Billy Stanley (lOst. 51b.) and Peter
Colby (lOst. 71b.) was a rattling good one,
with fight all the way and lots of hard hit-
ting on each side, Stanley getting a narrow
verdict on points. A Melbourne lad, Charlie
Gjaason (Bst. 811 b.), lost on a foul in the
ninth round to a local youth, Ernie Connors
(9st.).
* * * *
“Mitt Shover”: Billy Grime has apparently
weakened on his resolve not to leave America
until he had established himself in the front
rank, having, no doubt, found that the
process would be a longer one than he sup-
posed. He is to return to Australia shortly
under contract for a series of fights, and it
will be interesting to note whether he has
deteriorated, or whether his style was un-
suited to American methods. The latter would
seem to be the explanation, for it has been
evident that, while he could outbox his
adversaries, he could not punch harder or
“rough” so well —or ill. Almost the only
overseas fighter who has been a success in
America of late years, Tom Heeney, is a
strong and rugged walloper, able to take a
donging as well as give one, and to tackle
any rough customer at his own game.
* * * *
At Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night
Mike Yokel and John Ivilonis went through
the customary ferocious motions of a wrest-
ling match, “the first elimination contest for
tne world’s light-heavyweight championship.”
After his familiar display of showmanship,
Grecian John was adjudged the loser, the
American gaining two falls to one.
Footbrawl
Boisterous winds blowing dust over Mel-
bourne on Saturday caused a few thousand
football enthusiasts to miss a treat. A mere
55,000 saw Melbourne meet Collingwood in
the second semi-final. The game was fast,
fair and brilliant, and the finish was thrill-
ing. Through three quarters the Magpies
handled the ball more cleanly and supported
better, and at lemon-time they owned 9 goals
8 behmds to the Bed Legs’ 4 goals 8 behinds.
But the Fuchsias made a heroic recovery.
Passing the ball down from the backs to
Taylor, to Witman or Vine, to McConville
or tall Johnson—6ft. 3in. in his socks —they
got three goals. Then another goal from
Johnson’s boot; then another from Dean’s.
The crowd was roaring, while in the flying
minutes of “time off” every man was doing
his darnedest for the goal or point that
meant victory—but the bell rang first, leaving
them 9 goals 8 behinds all. Those named,
with Warne Smith, did best for Melbourne :
for the Magpies Syd. Coventry did two men’s
work, backed up heftily by Andrews, Dibbs,
Makeham and Harris.
* * *
The club football finals in Adelaide were
left to Port, West, Norwood and North. The
advantage of combined play is seen in the
fact that the champion goal-kicker, Owens
of Glenelg, who has kicked 83 and broken
the previous record (his own) of 80, could
not raise his club from the very bottom of
the list. In the first semi-final on Saturday
West beat North by four goals—ls goals 11
behinds to 11 goals 11 behinds.
* * # #
The N.S.W. Rugby Union side beat Maori-
land in the third Test match at Christ-
church by 11 to B—38 —3 tries and a goal to 2
tries and a goal. In the three Tests the
Welshmen scored 10 tries to 5, but kicked
only 3 goals to 8. They were without
Malcolm on Saturday, but the Maorilanders
also missed Cooke.
sji * * :s
The Sydney Rugby League season came
to an end on Saturday, as far as the first-
grade teams are concerned, when South Syd-
ney defeated Eastern Suburbs at the Show
Ground by 26 to 5 —6 tries and 4 goals to a
goal and a try. The game was disappoint-
ingly one-sided; East did not score until
near the end. This is the winners’ fourth
successive premiership.
(Continued on page 41.)
ONLY
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I know the world’s gone cross-eyed, an’ me
luck
Is sick an’ groggy, son, if not dead out ;
It must be months, it seems like, since *
struck
A winner, one worth writin’ home about.
I’ve worked it proper—’struth, I’ve watched
the game
Until me mind fair oozes form an’ facts
Like one of these here year-books; all the
same,
I might as well ’ve studied flamin’ tracts!
I’d give it up right now an’ never pine,
0n1y.... they look dead easy down the line.
I've had the oil; I’ve got the high an’ low
Of jokes before the stable cash went in,
An’ still I’ve just been murderin’ me dough
Like any jane that picks ’em with a pin.
I’ve had it so, as sure as eggs are eggs,
I’m on the only trier in the field,
An’ blowed if he don’t go an’ cross his legs!
Las’ month I’m in the only book that’s
spieled
For fifteen years!.... What? Cut it out!
I would,
0n1y... .I’ve heard a whisper, and it’s good.
I know I’m workin’ for the Tommy-rooks
Week after week, the way I’m goin’ on ;
This lurk a man no sooner gets his hooks
On to his pay-roll than it’s up an’ gone.
I know (you needn’t say it) I’m a mug
Not to renig; why, just las’ week I swore
The biggest cert that ever wore a rug
Was worth no quid of mine, an’, sou,
what’s more
I meant it—Oh, I’d chuck it like a shot,
0n1y....1’d miss a winner like as not.
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


X.
3
'"V
§
XVS
y
vK
2$
y\
:v
s \ a
\ 'a
f
5
\ S VS
A
M's
6.
&S
XA*s
y
8.
9.
AUSTRALIAN MADE
RACKETS
Every Spalding Racket in each grade is unexcelled
for Dependability, Service, and Value.
I.—TOP-FLITE.
*The fastest racket ever made. Built ex-
pressly for champions; with a delightful
flexibility. Used by Brugnon and
Boussus in all matches France v. Aus-
tralia
90/*
Also Special Ladies' Model with A ton-Slip Crip,
2.—GOLD MEDAL O.S.
Signalised by its power in play. The
model favoured and used by Borotra in
Australia
90/*
3. KRO-BAT.
A racket approved by many famous
players. With specially patented shoulders
85/-
4. PEERLESS.
A racket of outstanding merit, with par-
ticularly strong shoulders
85/-
S.—GOLD MEDAL H.I.C.
A high-grade racket of unexcelled quality
at the price . .
67/6
6. CRESCENT.
A medium-priced racket with strong
frame; recommended for service .
55/-
7. —VANTAGE.
A racket deservedly popular with all
classes of players
45/-
8. —SUNSHINE.
A racket of good workmanship and
material, perfectly balanced and strung
35/-
9.—GREENWOOD.
Made specially for younger players. The
very best that can be produced for the
money
25/-
AT ALL SPORTS STORES.
(AUSTRALASIA PTY LTD.
FACTORY: SUNSHINE, VICTORIA.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
BHUiIS
MSI
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
yitiJVttHg
lh*\.
I ft will improve
if you continue to use the
Scientifically Tested, Hard
Hitting, Long Range, Low
Recoil
ELEY KYNOCH
All-British CARTRIDGES
They Kill where others
fail
df
iNOBEu
ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up—Beautiful
lighting effects—A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Cafe de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines).
(Also under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
Footbrawl
“Spoof”: In support of the N.S.W. Rugby
League’s long monopoly of the Sydney
Cricket Ground it has been persistently
alleged that without it the trustees would
be unable to carry on. The truth is re-
vealed in their annual balance-sheet, which
shows that receipts from football amounted
to a mere £2500, though the visit of the
Englishmen made the season an exceptional
one. On the other hand, members’ subscrip-
tions totalled £9272. Yet the League and its
English cobbers had the hide to complain
because members were not compelled to pay
extra for admission to their games. The
profit for the year was £5467, receipts being
£17,643.
« * * *
“Colonial”: The sentiments of “Choom”
(B. l/8/’2B) respecting the League Rugby
game in Maoriland are not shared by the
English League managers, who left Auckland
(not Wellington) for Vancouver showing a
£2200 profit on the M.L. tour. The total re-
ceipts were £6454. As for the game in
Maoriland being decadent, England won the
third and deciding Test match at Christ-
church by six points to five; and the ground
wasn’t big enough to hold the crowd that
besieged the gates.
* * * *
“Old Bull”: That football, like circum-
stances, can alter cases has been shown at
Brisbane. In a mid-week match between
teams from the Waterside Workers’ Club and
the Mayne Locos, scores were equal at full
time. The referee ordered an extra period
of play without even calling a stop-work
meeting to discuss the matter. Though both
the Wliarfies and the Railwaymen are bit-
terly opposed to overtime, all hands acqui-
esced without a murmur. Thus sport has its
triumphs no less than the Arbitration
Court.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union is
already laying the rails for next seasou.
Some, at least, of the matches against the
All Blacks will be staged on the Sydney
Cricket Ground, from which the Union has
been excluded by the League monopoly for
years. It has been decided that, if possible,
one of the three Test matches will see players
from Victoria, Queensland and Westralia in-
cluded against the All Blacks. It is a
worthy aspiration.
* sis *
“Swing the Boot”: The authorities of the
N.S.W. Australian Football League have
set a sterling example to their confr&res of
other codes in the matter of dealing with
football ruffiansim. Last week a player who
had committed a brutal and unprovoked
attack on an umpire which necessitated the
latter’s removal to hospital was disqualified
for life. A little of the same medicine would
have purged the Rugby League of the foul
tactics which have distinguished some of its
games this season.
* * * *
“Torrens” : South Aus. footballers do not
go _in for professionalism as much as
their cousins of the Victorian League, but
there is a growing feeling in the Central
State that players should be paid for their
trouble. Supporters of the idea mention with
envy that Carlton players, who receive a
payment of £3 10s. per week and a bonus at
the end of the season, were promised an extra
£3 for the game against Collingwood. In
point of fact, the Carlton splash pales be-
side the £lO 10s.— no mere pounds, please!—
which, with expenses up to 255. a day, was
the honorarium of each N.S.W. and Q.
Rugby League player in Test matches against
the Englishmen. Some of the players in
the leading Sydney League clubs drew as
much as £lOO per man for premiership
matches only in the palmy days of the game.
Yet the Rugby League is not a convincing
argument in favor of payment of players.
❖ ❖
“Si Anu”: The Australian Soccer team
which has been touring Java and Malaya
achieved at least one distinction —it moved
the Straits Times to devote a leading
article to it. At the conclusion of the Singa-
pore visit the captain of the team wrote a
somewhat ill-judged letter to the journal com-
plaining that, unlike Java, Singapore had not
opened its arms socially and embraced the
visitors. Items of public interest are few
in Singapore, the letter was foolishly
worded, and it gave the editor the oppor-
tunity of getting on a high horse and penning
a lofty and stinging rejoinder, which ended
by assuring Australian residents of the island
that it did not regard the attitude of the
captain as typical of the Australian nation.
The trouble arose, of course, from the fact
that practically all sport in Malaya -is
amateur, and hence the tone of local sport-
ing bodies to any organisation which savors
of professionalism is one of extreme con-
descension. Malaya is never lacking in
hospitality to visiting teams of amateurs—
in fact, the main difficulty of the trainers
is to keep the players sufficiently sober to
take the field. At Penang on one occasion a
visiting team of sportsmen from Sumatra got
so full of their hosts’ liquor that the final
great event, of the week, a cricket match,
resolved itself into a hilarious farce, an inci-
dent of which was a 17-stone Dutchman, who
had by some extraordinary freak smitten
the ball for what should have been six,
crawling on hands and knees down the pitch
for a single.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The record of the
Australian Davis Cup team abroad has not
been brilliant, and now Crawford and Hop-
man are closing an inglorious chapter by
squealing at umpires. Ilopman told an
interviewer that the bad decisions of Ameri-
can umpires had put him off his game,
flip ugh, perhaps, it was “silly” of him to
admit it. Crawford added that one of his
games had been rendered doubly difficult by
inefficient umpiring. The umps. complained
of were those appointed for the American
national championships, so they must have
been men of experience. Instead of sending
a chaperon with the girls, the A.L.T.A
should have sent a chaperone with the boys.
“Juice”: The godsend which the visit of
the French team turned out to the Australian
tennis authorititgs is revealed in the finan-
cial statement of the Australian Council for
the year ended March 31. Revenue in 1927
was £3763; in 1928 it jumped to £10,767.
The Frenchmen's tour netted £3890, and the
Australian championships £2369. The debit
balance of 1927, £lB3, has been wiped out,
and £3508 is available to carry forward. The
show is now being run from Melbourne, and
this gives opportunity for a felon blow at
the Sydney administration ; the report says
that, though the takings at the Melbourne
Test match were less than those at Sydney,
“better management in Melbourne” resulted
in a larger profit. Both the Davis Cup
and women’s teams are expected to show a
slight loss, and until these accounts have
been adjusted distribution of the profits of
THE NEW RULE.
JILL: “For an old man he does handle a boat well, doesn’t he? Still, I suppose a
man is only as old as he feels.”
BILL: “Yes, and a woman as young as she can make herself look.”
the French tour will be held up. In the
meantime, the governing body has man-
aged to acquire assets of £7117, mostly in
gilt-edged securities. The smaller and poorer
States would appreciate some financial assist-
ance to put the game on a sound footing in
their territory.
!!: * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The A.L.T.A., though it
is rolling in riches since the French visit,
has queered the proposed visit of the South
African women’s team this season on the
score of economy. The terms offered wen
so scanty that the intending visitors
decided it would be better fun to stop at
home. When the Australian team toured
South Africa the Afrikanders paid all exes,
and handed over 10 per cent, of match pro-
fits. The Australian body offered £5OO cash,
the team to be put up by the various Stares
in which they might play. As at lease four
players would have come over, £5OO would
not have gone far. Possibly the Australian
body expected the Afrikander Meisjies to
travel steerage. However, the latter suggest
coming here next year. Their terms wall
have to be bedrock, for, as a Sydney writer-
official remarks in a characteristic strain,
“There is no reason for us to give away
more than we are likely to receive.”
The Nineteenth, Hole
The Australian golf championships were
carried on last week on the Rose Bay links.
N.S.W., which had already won the inter-
state match, the mixed foursomes and the
open championship, lifted the foursomes title
as well; this went to B. C. J. Bettington
and J. Hunter, of Royal Sydney. The event
was a 36-hole stroke competition, the winners
returning a card of 154 (78, 76). G. R.
Davidson and L. K. Harrison tied for second
■place with A. Russell and C. 11. Fawcett, of
Victoria, 155. In the professionals’ match
between North and South, Rufus Stewart
beat Sinclair 1 up in the singles; in the
doubles, Stewart, with Harvey as a partner,
won from Heard and Popplewell, 2 up.
Youth prevailed in the amateur champion-
ship; Len Nettlefold, the Tasmanian left-
hander, beat S. A. Keane (N.S.W.) in the
final by 2 up and 4 to play. Nettlefold is
22; S. A. Keane is 19. Nettlefold cap-
tured the title in 1926, and since then has
played much big golf in Europe, getting
among the last eight in the English amateur
championship.
“Marino”: Though he was deprived of
the open championship by a stroke, Rufus
Stewart, the South Aus, professional, has
been well up in the running of late years. He
was beaten by the same margin in the event
of 1926 in Adelaide, when Ivo Whitton won.
Last year he triumphed in Victoria, and
this time he struck his colors to Fred Popple-
well in Sydney. Two seconds and a first in
such an important event in three consecutive
years is very good golfing.
* Sc *
“The McHaggis”: Fred Popplewcll’s feat
in holing out in one during the Australian
open championships in Sydney has naturally
compelled a reference to statistics. The thing
had never been done before in an Australian
match of this calibre, but it has been, com-
mon in England, in both the open and ama-
teur championships. Perhaps the record per-
formance was by Jamie Anderson at Prest-
wick in 1878, when playing in the open. At
one hole he went down from a full-iron
shot, and at the next holed a 20-yard
putt. Then, at the 17th, lie holed out in one
from the tee. As he won the championship
by a single stroke, his opponent had probably
something to say on the subject of “Scotch-
men’s luck.”
❖ ❖ # *
“Mid Iron”: According to a Brisbane
report J. N. Radcliffe, the Queensland ama-
teur champion, has been asked if he will be
able to make one of a party of six golfers to
visit England if the trip can be arranged.
Radcliffe, who is an unknown quantity in
Sydney and Melbourne, is rated very high
among Australian amateurs by such judges
as Ivo Whitton.
* f/ * *
“Percy Piebald” : Harding Frew, engineer
in charge of the bridge to be thrown over the
Brisbane River, was playing on the Yeerong-
pilly links recently and dropped two suc-
cessive balls in the creek at the 13th. His
caddy was overheard to remark to a mate,
“And this is the bloke what’s going to put
a bridge over the river. Why, he can’t even
hit a ball over a creek!”
* * * *
“Burnett”: Bundaberg (Q.), whose princi-
pal products are Bert Hinkler and sugar, has
been infected with the golf mania, and has
just completed a new course. A. S. McArthur
laid it out, and will be the club’s profes-
sional ; he is a young Scot who came to
Australia after the war; he was wounded
on Gallipoli and in France. He arrived
at Brisbane from the N.S.W. Northern
Rivers, and became instructor at McWhir-
tcr’s golf school. In addition to Bundaberg,
he has laid out half a dozen country golf
courses in Queensland.
“Iconoclast” : At Bendigo recently a truant
inspector took proceedings against 30 boys
for “wagging it.” It was disclosed that the
unhappy children had been lured from their
studies by the specious glitter of the emolu-
ments pertaining to the office of caddy at the
local golf links. Worse than that, it was
shown that the Education Department had
connived at the offence by granting permis-
sion for these absences as a “reward” —the
excuse is the department’s own —for regular
attendance. As the beak remarked Avhile
fining the offenders, the situation is an ex-
traordinary one. When one thinks of the
evil examples to be witnessed and overheard
in the profane atmosphere of a golf course,
and the temptations flourished before youth-
ful innocence at the Nineteenth Hole, one
cannot help but agree with his Washup.
“Schenactady”: An American writer has
been analysing the temperamental influence
of various games on their players, and proves
to his own satisfaction that the victim of
golf suffers the severest pangs. The agony
of the cricketer is soon over, one way or
another, while the footballer can find relief
in “donging” his opponent. But the golfer,
isolated and unfriended, must suffer a long-
drawn-out martyrdom from drive-off to the
final putt, and with his evei*y error apparent
to the multitude, as well as to his own
stricken conscience—if he has a conscience.
❖ * ❖ i\:
“The Mcllaggis”: Once more the contro-
versy over the modern golf-ball is raising its
head. The Americans are advocating a
change on the ground that the present type
of ball is too light and makes the game
too easy. They want to get the British
authorities to drop the present standard ball
and introduce one that will be acceptable to
all countries. The suggested new ball
shortens the drive and will be much harder
to control in approaching and putting. Such
a change may suit the select few on the
scratch and plus marks, but the 90 per cent,
of the world’s golfers who are a long way
from either can be counted on to refuse it
recognition. To these anything tending to
make the maddening game more upsetting
will be as welcome as a shoal of leather-
heads at an outing of the Amateur Fisher-
men’s Association. On the other hand, the
introduction of a new ball or any other
gadget which will improve their handicaps or
lessen their agony will be received with open
arms. What a lot of them want is a
self-propelling, self-steering ball with an
undefeatable tendency to crawl into the
cup if it has to run backwards to do it.
Car and Cycle
“Sprocket”: What is stated to have been
the first bicycle is described in a recent
English journal. Invented by Gne Ovendon,
in 1761, it would seem to have been rather
a power-driven cycle than a bike proper,
since the passenger sat in front steering,
while the “power” was supplied by a footman
behind. Plow many miles to the gallon
(probably of beer) the contrivance could
achieve is not stated, but since it was only
to be indulged in by those fortunate enough
to possess footmen, it never seems to have
caught on with the general public.
* # * *
“A.E.G.”: I hate to contradict “Garry”
(B. 5/9/’2B), but lie should be more careful.
Gottfried Daimler was probably the first man
to design something that looked like our
modern car engine, but the credit for the
first internal-combustion engine certainly be-
longs to Otto, whose cycle of operations is
still standard. A. V. Roe did not ever, to
my knowledge, use a “French-made eight-
cylinder engine.” I well remember his first
flights; he used a twin 8-h.p. “Jap” motor-
cycle engine. On his later efforts lie used an
8-cylinder Yee J.A.Pt British-made engine.
To risk criticism myself, I wonder why
White, of Victoria, has never received credit
for designing the first practical Avro aero-
plane, a design which is even to-day the
standard training machine in both Australian
and British air forces. White’s first effort
is now hanging up in Melbourne’s Techno-
logical Museum, and is to all appearances a
real and workmanlike job.
( Continued on page 42.)


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Addiesn:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
lii
MS
'iiiltnr*
II 111
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute 0.r.0.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
"p. AHERN.
sd
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing Tiles
Wunderlich “ Durabestos” Building
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
For Forty Years, Manufacturers of Quality
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
and Roofs
Car and Cycle
“Clutch”: The worst disaster in the his-
tory of speed motoring took place the other
day on the Monza track, Milan. A Talbot
car competing in the European Grand Pt'ix
jumped the track while going at full speed
and crashed into the packed spectators,*
Nineteen were killed outright, including
Materassi, the driver, while 26 were seriously
injured. The track has an evil record, for
Leonardi was killed there in 1925, and
Sivocci Pordino last year. Materassi was a
skilled driver; last year lie won the Grand
Prix at San Sebastian, covering 483 miles
at an average of 80 m.p.h. In spite of the
smash, the other competitors continued: a
Frenchman, Church, driving a Bugatti, won
in 3hr. 45min. Bsec., averaging 100 m.p.h.
sjc # ❖
“Garry”: Cable messages about a “gear-
less” transmission invented by Robertson, an
Englishman, are a little misleading in their
terminology. What is meant, apparently, is
that Robertson his invented a uew type of
gearing that automatically adjusts the ratio
between engine revs, and the load on the
engine. That, of course, means that the new
gear is, within its limits, whatever they are,
infinitely variable, a result attained in the
friction disc type of drive many. years ago.
In that drive —the best commercial example
was probably the Zenitli-Gradua motor-
cycle—a wheel connected with the driving
shaft was so arranged as to impinge at a
right angle on a broad disc connected with
the engine, and it could be. moved in a path
across the centre of the disc, from one rim
to the other. This gave an infinitely vari-
able gear forward, a neutral —when the point
of contact was the centre of the friction disc,
and an infinitely varied gear in reverse.
But this gear had to be hand-actuated,
whereas Robertson’s gear is said to be on
tlie governor principle, shifting automati-
cally. If the claims made for it are well
founded it is the most important automobile
invention of a decade.
“Dulcicn”: “Rigalt” (B. 18/7/’2S) is
hopelessly incorrect when he states that
“Nauru has only one car.” On this island,
as I write, there arc 11 touring cars, .12
motor-trucks, 16 motor-cycles and 297
bicycles. Around the island there is a per-
fect road 11 miles long; there is also an
excellent road across, about five miles long.
* * * *
“Garry” : In Maoriland the Motor Traders’
Association issues monthly returns of car
sales, and every importer is able to see
exactly how his competitors are getting along
The return for the first half of this year
contained some surprises. Fords, which for
years have headed the list, were down in
ninth place, their sales record of 324 being
beaten by Chevrolet, 1006; Essex-Hudson,
1005; Austin, 528; Chrysler, 509; Whippet,
388; Morris, 380; Dodge, 375; and Buick,
324. Out of a total of 6486 new cars sold
5093 hailed from the United States or the
Canadian plants of U.S. manufacturers;
1236 were made in Great Britain; 36 in
Italy; eight in France; and seven in Bel-
gium.
* * *
“Yallourn”: R. W. Lamb threatens to be-
come a serious rival to Opperman. Hd
brought off a fine double recently with fastest
time,' from scratch, in the 105 miles road
race from Wonthaggi to Melbourne (shr.
29min. 34sec.) and the 100 miles champion-
ship of Victoria (shr. 17min. 42sec.). Since
turning professional, Lamb has ridden in
four road races and has made fastest time
in all of them.
s»: £
“Sprocket”: Details are to hand of the
one-hour race on the Velodrome, Paris, in
which Hubert Opperman was third. The
race w"as won by the Italian Giradengo, who
covered 33 miles 112 yards; this is claimed
as a world’s record, as it probably is for
races paced by multi-cycles instead of motor-
driven machines. Behind motor pace with a
windscreen 71 miles 476 yards were en-
compassed by L. Vanderstuyft at Paris in
1925. Opperman himself has done 53 miles
953 yards in Victoria, also in 1925. There
is a tendency for Continental promoters to
return to the multi-cycle for pacing, the
contention being that it is a much sounder
test of endurance than motor-paced racing.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer” : Tommy Miles, the champion
sprinter from Bundaberg (Q.), has shown
that he has completely recovered from his leg
injury by running 100 metres in 10 9-10 sec.
Miles broke down badly some months ago,
and it was feared that his career as a
professional runner was over. His time
knocked a tenth of a second off Tim Ban-
ner’s Australian record; Charles Paddock
holds the world’s record with 10 2-ssec.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: Niched in the annals of Bath-
urst (N.S.W.) are some uncommon sport-
ing feats. One George Wheatly raced Cobb
and Co.’s coach to Dubbo for £5. Plenty
I suppose, could have done that; but George
carried a live sheen on his back, and won
by half an hour. Then there was Skillicorn,
who wagered £l5O with a publican that he
would ride from Bathurst to Sydney on
one horse in less than 20 hours. Bung was
wily; lie sent a man ahead to a wayside
pub, where he was to shout for Skillicorn
and then walk with him for 100 yards.
The unsuspecting rider fell into the trap,
and though he reached Sydney in 19hr,
50min., he lost the wager through walking
the hundred yards.
* e * *
“Glenelg”: Little has been heard since
1924 of the Murray Bridge (S.A.) Rowing
Club, which once owned the champion eight
of Australia. Nearly all the original mem-
bers of that great crew have dropped out of
the game; Graetz and Pfeiffer are the only
ones retaining an active interest in rowing.
Pfeiffer recently ordered a racing eight in Mel-
bourne, to be delivered before the end of
the year. The club has been reorganisd, with
many new members, and is expected to male,
its presence felt again before long.
'l* i{» 5|C }}S
“Hawthorn” : The decision of the Victorian
rowing heads to appoint Cecil McVilly sole
selector of the State eight has not been allowed
to go unquestioned. Ballarat has moved
that the eight, when chosen, shall be sub-
ject to challenge, and after some acrimonious
argument this has been agreed to. The
selected crew may be challenged to a race
with any crew of members of the V.R.A. up
to six weeks before the date of the King’s
Cup event, May 4, the winners to represent
the State. The selector has power to order
a re-row in case of accident interfering with
the race, and if more than one crew chal-
lenges an eliminating contest is to be held,
expenses being borne by the challenging
crews.
* * * :|=
“Shell”: Bob Pearce, Australia’s Olympic
sculler, made a big hit abroad. Philadelphia
(U.S.A.), which donated a £5OO gold cup
for the Olympic event, has notified the
N.S.W. lad that the pot is being forwarded
to his home address. He lias been invited to
visit Philadelphia and Boston next year for
a series of matches against American, scul-
lers, including Myers, whom he defeated at
Amsterdam. Pearce will probably accept;
if he does lie will go on to England for the
Diamond Sculls.
* * * *
“Don Crew”: Brusher was working his
three-card game, when a goose appeared.
“Think you could pick it?” said Brasher.
The goose reckoned he could, and Brasher
manipulated the cards, chanting the usual
formula. When he had finished he left
the cards in line, spaced about an inch apart,
on the umbrella. The jack of spades was
reposing in his pocket. “I could pick it
with me eyes shut,” the goose said. “Could
you?” jeered Brusher. “Well, ’ave a go at
it.” And tfio buttoners crowded round to see
the fun. The goose produced' a tenner, which
was quickly covered; then he did a strange
and awful thing. He picked up two of the
cards and handed them to Brasher. “Those
are yours,” he said. “The turned-down card
is mine.”
* * * *
“Rummy” : The N.S.W. bowling fraternity
has been eonvulsed by a suggestion that the
expenses of teams visiting other States should
F. D. JONES, trainer of Limerick and
Roscrea.
be paid either by the association visited
or by the State they represent. Howls is
not confined to the well-to-do, and it is
becoming difficult to send strong teams
away, with the result that N.S.W. lias been
getting it in the neck when playing in Bris-
bane or Melbourne. Hitherto the custom
has been for each player to pay liis own
expenses, which arc considerable, and many
players are jibbing. The diehards are rais-
ing the cry that to pay expenses would
amount to professionalism. That is non-
sense, since payment of travelling and accom-
modation expenses is sanctioned by such
rigid amateur bodies as the Rugby Union,
while .a small allowance for pocket-money in
addition is allowed under the laws of the
International Federation which governs all
forms of amateur sport. Provided funds are
available —and it is suggested that a green
where admission-money could be charged
would provide these—there is no reason
why the bowlers should not fall into line
with players of other games in this respect.
FRED POPPLEWELL, the N.S.W. profes-
sional, who won the open golf cham-
pionship of Australia in Sydney for the
second time.
“Marathon”: Great cricketers, like prima
donnas, find it hard to leave the limelight.
An instance is the decision of the portly and
venerable (in a cricket sense) Warwick
Armstrong, now in his forty-ninth year, to
turn out in district cricket with the Padding-
ton (N.S.W.) club, of which he has been
elected a vice-president. The big fellow has
deferred a final decision until he has tested
himself at practice.
* * * *
“Hotham” : Victorian cricketers are open-
ing their season on September 29, three
weeks before the match' between Australia
and The Rest in Melbourne. The State side’s
first game against the Englishmen begins on
November 2, and the first Sheffield match,
against South Australia, at Melbourne imme-
diately after. All last year’s team will be
available, and the natives are fervently hop-
ing that the Ponsford-Woodfull machine will
work as faultlessly as last season. The Vies,
have selected Woodfull as skipper of the
Australian eleven. South Australia has done
the same by Victor Richardson, and N.S.W.
will hear of no one but Kippax.
t- * * *
“Aunt Sally”: A Queensland statistician
proclaims O’Connor a better ’keeper than
Oldfield because the Queenslander allowed
few"er sundries than the international last
season. The only test of a ’keeper worth
consideration is his capacity to get wickets,
and to do so in match after match. To judge
him because of an accumulation of sundries,
due in most cases to erratic bowling or
unavoidable leg-byes, is as silly as extolling
a bowler because of his success in “keep-
ing the runs down” even if he doesn’t get
a wicket, or even look like doing so.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: With the coming of the
English cricketers close at hand—they play
their first match at Perth on October 18-20 —
there is not much time left to prepare for
building up what will be practically a new
Australian side. The Englishmen have had
a better preparation than any team before
them. An exceptionally good season has
accustomed them to hard wickets, and the
majority of the team had three matches
together against the West Indians, as well
as games against the Rest of England. As
far as batting strength is concerned, Aus-
tralia has nothing to weep about, but in
bowling there is another tale to tell. The
only new bowler of real promise seen last
season was young A’Beckett, of Victoria.
Unless some new planet bowls into our ken,
reliance will have to be placed on the old
brigade, headed by Grimmett and Blackie,
and only optimists will assert that Gregory,
Scott, Mailey and co. are still potential
match-winners.
Pot and Palette.
“O. Kay”: Marine-journalist A. J. Villiers
has returned to Australia with a new buna e
of raw material. He sailed from S.A. in
the Herzogin Cecilie some eight months ago,
visited Fleet-street and arranged for the pub-
lication of “Falmouth for Orders,” a stony of
his voyage. Another novel, “The V\ md »hip,
is on the stocks. Villiers was with
Norwegian whaling crowd in the Hoss oea
a couple of years ago, and “ r lhe a rozeu
South” was the result of his experiences.
The turn of Orme and Fern, equilibrists,
is at the Athenaeum, Melbourne. Orme jug-
gles with pastels, and Fern walks the water-
color tightwire. Orme sometimes partially
achieves the feat he has set himself, but the
quickness of his hand never quite deceives
the spectator’s eye owing to his general
ignorance of the principles of tone. i ern
slips off the wire almost before he has got
on it, and with few exceptions hits the saw-
dust with great precision and consistency.
Vincent Sheldon, a Queenslander, has been
showing a collection of etchings and mono-
types at the Gainsborough Gallery, Bris-
bane. In this, his first one-man show, are
included the three etchings by which he is
represented in the print-room at the British
Museum. A set of prints of “Wiynberg,
the residence of Archbishop Duhig, and a
sketch portrait of the prelate have been
bound in book form for presentation to the
Papal delegate during his visit to Brisbane.
A portrait of the late Dr. O’Farrell, R.C.
Bishop of Bathurst, by Fred Monteith, is
now on exhibition at the Hordern Gallery.
The poise of the figure and the critical kindli-
ness of the expression are admirably worked.
Rupert Bunny, who makes a considerable
show with 2G pictures hung at the Hordern
Gallery, shows his capacity for expression
chiefly in “The Prodigal”; the spirit of
utter hopelessness has been infused into the
dejected figure of the character who “did
in” his patrimony. Bunny always appears to
paint more for the gallery than the private
home; and in spite of its force the sombre-
ness of the picture would make it uninvit-
ing for the private buyer. Yet both in “The
Sun Batli” and “Beautiful Afternoon” Bunny
shows he can express the delights of living
just as competently; and “Workmen” like-
wise shows superb strength.
Painters have had plenty of encouragement
extended to them in Sydney, as the Archibald
and the Wynne prizes attest, among other
things. Architecture and music have not
been neglected, either, in the matter of
and the same may be said about
the sciences, but very little has been done
for the students of drawing and painting.
Very welcome, therefore, is Miss Alice Mus-
kett’s generous gift to the Sydney Art School
in the form of an annual prize, bearing the
name of her brother, the late Dr. Philip
Muskett. Apart from the Society of Artists’
Travelling Scholarship, this is the first bene-
faction which aims at the encouragement of
art students.
“C.C.”: The Bully’s pink cover has its
disabilities, too. I have posted two copies
every week for some years to friends in the
Cold Country, but only about two in three
reached their destination until I bethought
me of peeling off the jacket before wrapping
it for the post. Very few go astray now" that
the sneak thieves en route can’t pick it out
of the heap at a glance.
“F.S.”: Napier Waller, the Digger-paintei*
who lost his brush arm at the war and
taught the other to paint as well, has
further added to his fame as a mural artist
with a gigantic decoration for the Melbourne
Public Library. It is called “Peace After
Victory,” and depicts the warrior returning
on one of Waller’s milk-white, rosy-com-
plexioned steeds followed by what looks like
the regimental chaplain very symbolically
rendered. The composition is stately and
massive, as befits its position on the stair-
case of the library. Another facet of Wal-
ler’s art is represented at the University in
six stained-glass windows presented by
Edward Stevens in memory of his son, Cap-
tain Stevens, killed in France. Waller knew"
nothing of the intricate craft of staining
glass when he got the commission, but mas-
tered it sufficiently in a few months to give
a very good account of himself.
At the City House, 194 Pitt-street, Sydney,
Joseph Luke Fleury opened up an exhibition
of “Tempera” paintings during the Eucharis-
tic Congress week. Fleury, who has carried
out the mural decorations in several Sydney
R.C. churches and has been awarded the
Cross pro Ecclesia et Pontifice for his most
recent work in a North Sydney sanctuary,
has made a study for eight years of the old
style of tempera beloved by the early* Re-
naissance painters; the work is interesting if
it is not always effective. The artist is
plainly weak in figure drawing, and his sense
of design is sometimes astray, but he gets
some wonderful color effects in such items as
“Morning Light,” “Autumn Afternoon” and
“The Path to the Farm.”


Af,
head
£
*.s* v n?
•t
wm . a
. ... .’
V w.
' «R
■■■
av«.X
: : ; ' yy/ ' :yy: -. ■
«£»•<?
<y
m
/i
a
Sr*
. -•"*:
c£
OVER the hills the broad highway
unrolls its welcome to you to come
and enjoy summer. Away from the
heat of town or city it offers new sights and
experiences—promises recreation and rest.
October, November, December, January,
February and March—the best months of the
year are all ahead! Too soon will they be gone.
Only with a motor-car can you enjoy this
out-of-door season to the full.
Week-ends, holidays, vacations, evenings
take on a new meaning when you have your
own car to take you where you want to go—
easily, quickly, economically!
It is now possible for almost anyone to possess
a modern car for not only is the purchase
price of the perfected exceedingly
low but convenient time-payments make it
easy to buy. Come in and we’ll give vou
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED, 148 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY„, LIMITED, 117-21 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LIMITED, Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, Franklin Street, ADELAIDE
ADAMS’ MOTORS, LIMITED, 442 Murray Street, PERTH.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LIMITED, 53-56 Bathurst Street, HOBART.


Under
Royal
Warrant
fs
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
jgSSfiuis
SWI3U
■vpareprojisap^-j
3 NOVdWVHD
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Aarer ta—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
ss
9
&
vTT
The Choicest '
Australia
Produces.
Plump palatable —•
and spotlessly clean.
Such are Swallow and
Ari e 1 l’s Raisins,
stemmed and seeded
ready for your cakes
and puddings. Ask
your grocer.
SWALLOW
AND
1
SEEDED X RAISINS
T/yp cen/ne o/ (Jupen s /onc/s
Soc/o/ i-i.
WoM
Co RDTCPI
BRISBANE
dfs
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal ot
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
auacnea. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
yenience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central o'B0 —10 Lines
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayer
SLIPPER
HEEL
SILK HOSIER
It was only a few months ago that Cupid
got a chance of taking careful aim at Justice
Davidson. For 26 years he practised at the
Equity Bar, obscured by a barrage of docu-
ments. But when he was appointed to the
Supreme Court Bench it was not long be-
fore his hard-boiled bachelordom cracked
open. The lady is Phyllis Jones, a daughter
of Dr. R. T. Jones, of Ashfield, and, like his
Honor, a keen golf player. The romance is
the culmination of a long friendship. The
distinguished Judge is a son of Mudgee’s
oldest practising solicitor, George Davidson.
Jean Kater, youngest daughter of the Dr.
Norman Katers, is among the newly-engaged.
Her ring-provider is Ronald Munro, son of
the Ross Munros of Whyandah station, St.
George, Queensland.
What is it that makes the club woman
revel in a row? Last week the Feminists
staged an upheaval within their four walls.
The centre of the storm was Mrs. Holman,
the literary wife of the brilliant K.C. and
former Premier. For some time Mrs. Hol-
man has been the president of the club, and
during the prohibition campaign she wrote a
letter which was subsequently published as
an anti-prohibition pamphlet. In the pamph-
let Mrs. Holman was described as president of
the Feminist Club, but on the cover it was
stated that she wrote as a citizen. Exception,
too, was taken to Mr. Holman’s giving an
anti-prohibition address in the club, even
though the room had been hired by
the Citizens’ Rights and Liquor Reform
Association. Because of these things at a
meeting last week a motion calling on Mrs.
Holman to resign was carried. But not
unanimously. There is a section of the
club which was proud to have the gifted
and experienced lady as its president.
The Chancellor and Senate of Sydney
Uni. put on a show one night last
week to commemorate their benefactors, when
various heads in their robes of office
and professors in scholarly garb paced from
Fisher Library to Great Hall, through grey
stone cloisters of the Middle Ages. The
list. of benefactors was read out impressively
while over 500 students and their friends
lent the attentive ear. There were color-
ful hoods massed on the dais—a vivid splash
against the monastic background. The
carillon rang out, the organ pealed, and
then the grave assembly blossomed into that
genial flower the conversazione. But the
supper in the Union refectory was really
a thing of joy. Probably, as the University
Appeal has now scored its £IOO,OOO, Minerva
felt she could afford to be lavish with the
cream and the savories.
Lebby Hordern, one of Sydney’s few mil-
lionaire young men, was buried at South
Head last Thursday. Canon Howard Lea
read the service, and Lebby’s mother and
widow and his brother Sam were outstanding
figures by the grave. Five aeroplanes circled
in the blue, paying a last tribute to one
of the pioneers of aviation in this State. A
14-year-old son by the first marriage is the
heir to most of the vast fortune. The first
Mrs. Lobby Hordern’s alimony of £BOOO a
year will not he affected by the sudden death,
that being secured by settlements. The widow
was formerly Frances Barry, youngest
daughter of one of Sydney’s best-known
legal men.
Asa climax to the opera season in Sydney
the Minghetti baby arrived just as the last
notes of “Aida” were filling the air. The
tenor-father, being off duty, was supping
with the Taits when a wild message on the
’phone told him to report to Wootton private
hospital. The youngster might seem marked
out for an ecclesiastical career, for two days
earlier Mrs. Minghetti was walking the gar-
den paths at, Government House with Apos-
tolic Delegate Cattaneo, while Angelo fol-
lowed, surrounded by bishops in their purple.
Sydney’s old friend Francis Jackson, of
the Players’ Club, writes from Stratford-
on-Avon, where he has been for three weeks
studying Shakspearean production under
Bridges Adams and Owen Chambers. He
found the last-named had been in Australia
and knew poor old Bentley. Mr. Jackson
has been busy getting together a fine collec-
tion of films of England for lecturing pur-
poses in Australia. The Gaumont firm is
producing for him a 5000-feet film of “London
Through the Ages.” This will be taken
through Australia next year.
Cardinal Cerretti didn’t escape that wild
dissipation of churchmen, the garden party,
or that other ecclesiastical jamboree, the con-
versazione. Why are garden parties sup-
posed to provide the right atmosphere in
which the Cloth shall gambol? Curates and
garden parties, cardinals and garden parties,
bishops and garden parties! The garden
party crops up wherever a synod blooms,
wherever clergymen are gathered together.
Possibly the Arcadian surroundings are sup-
posed to suggest the shepherd and his flock.
Anyway, the Cardinal browsed at three
within four days; and what between oblig-
ing the tenacious autograph-hunter and ex-
tending liis ring for the Faithful to kiss, the
Legate’s right hand must show a few signs
of wear and tear.
At the Government House garden party
las.t week every second woman seemed to
have an autograph-alburn tucked under her
arm. The Cardinal’s scarlet made h m easy
to stalk, and his amiability left him a willing
victim. Here were G.-G. Stonehaven. Pri
minister Bruce and his lady, the Bavins
and the. Civic Commissioner Flemings
Mrs. Bavin was in daffodil georgettes flecked
with white, finished off by a wide and
picturesque black hat. Mrs. Bruce was
collared in ermine, being otherwise black
cloth. Archgaiters Wright walked with em-
purpled archbishops gathered from the vine-
yards of the wide world. The gentle and
urbane Rabbi Cohens were among those who
trod the wistaria-lined paths. Lucille
Bruntnell, just returned, came in almond-
green repp. Law and learning, the Army
and Navy (one of the nicest in uniforms
being Captain Geoffrey Hughes) were there
in phalanxes. Ailsa Cullen, in floating green
chiffons, helped her dad to do the honors;
and slim Kathleen Trefle, in black, wore the
clear red of Connemara on her smooth cheeks,
and was altogether admirable under her
drooping primrose hat.
At the garden party in the pretty grounds
of Loretto Convent, at Kirribilli, the Cardi
nal had his ring kissed 800 times. Ilis
Eminence was established in a deep chair,
and the guests filed and bobbed before him.
They passed after the salute to the lower
terraces and lawns, where tea was served.
In the sunlight the gold and white streamers
in the hands of the schoolgirl guard of honor,
ail in sky-after-rain-blue uniform, were par-
ticularly effective. Tall Hubert Murray, from
Papua, was again in the group about the
Cardinal, as were Mrs. Frochill. the surgeon
Dan Kellys, at whose home (one of the few
private houses he has entered) the Papal
Legate had previously lunched. Italy’s Con-
sul-General Grossardi and Donna Grossardi
were among the notables.
A sad result of the open-air party at St.
John's in honor of Cardinal Cerretti was the
death of Professor J. B. Pcden's wife. The
wind was bitterly cold along the Parramatta-
road on Saturday, and even in coats and furs
it was impossible to keep warm in the shadow
of St. John's and its big little sister. Sancta
Sophia. Mrs. Peden caught a slight chill
at the garden party, and collapsed and died
suddenly at her home in Chats wood on Tues-
day night.
Justice Harvey is president of Cranbrook
School council, and naturally Mrs. Harvey
(here pictured) is determined to make the
coming school fete a record success. Cranbrook
Oval on Satur-
day next will
see a collec-
tion of stalls
and sideshows
guaranteed to
extract the
last three-
penny from a
S c o t s m a n’s
pocket. Mrs.
Harvey is pre-
sident of the
fete commit-
tee, and to her
organising
ability was due
the Hurry-Up
fair in aid of
the Darling
Point centre
of St. Luke’s.
In three weeks
from the date
it was thought
of the Hurry-Up had snared £2OO for the
hospital. The Woolloomooloo Kindergarten,,
the District Nursing Association and St.
Catherine’s School, Waverley, are other ob-
jects of Mrs. Harvey’s constant care.
Mary Hinton, Lord Forster’s handsome
daughter, who is appearing in London in
“Payment,” has been acting hard ever since
her return to England. She was touring the
provinces with the Seymour Hicks company
for some time, but threw up her part when
the company left for S. Africa. Few act-
resses manage to combine professionalism
and domesticity so deftly. After the show
every Saturday night she leaves for Hinton
St. Mary in her ear to spend the week-end
with her husband and children. Captain
Pitt Rivers is one of Dorset’s largest land-
owners (Rushmore belongs to him, amongst
other famous estates), and “the County” is
utterly unable to understand the impulses
which drive the lady to act and the Captain
to write scientific books and lecture before
learned societies.
The fine direct gaze that radiates from
this Hollywood photo, is owned by Mrs. A. V.
Roberts, who acted as vice-chairman of the
Australian delegation to the Pan-Pacific
Women’s Conference at Honolulu. Mrs.
Roberts ha s
logic, a well-
balanced
tongue to
which silence
is no hard-
ship. and a de-
termination to
do all in her
power to se-
cure the best
possible con-
diti o n s for
women in in-
dus t r y the
wor 1 d over.
She found no-
thing more
striking at the
Conference
Ilian the unan-
imity on the
subject of
worl d peace
among women
gathered from every country around the
Pacific and representing the picked brains
of America. China, Japan, Korea and Aus-
tralia. Mrs. Roberts is quite frank about
the Australian delegation not being as pre-
pared in its work as the women from America.
But then each woman in the American sec-
tion owed her position to being an expert
in regard to education, national health or
economics. The National Council of Women
welcomed the Sydney and inter-State dele-
gates back on Saturday at morning tea.
Everybody made a speech, most of them too
long, but that of Mrs. Rischbieth, of W.A.,
leader of the Australian delegation, was as
neat and concise as her own smart tailorings.
Cobwebby lace over silver tissue, and this
in turn over pale pink chiffon, formed the
wedding garment of Gwendoline Litchfield, a
pretty daughter of the E. 11. Litchficlds, of
Woodstock. Cooma. The veil was of white
silk net mingled with pale pink tulle, and
had as fragrant accompaniment a slmaf of
hyacinths and lilies of the valley. St. Paul’s,
at Cooma, was swept and garnished for the
ceremony Inst Wednesday, and S. D’Arey
Hixson, of Elizabeth Bay, was waiting with
the ring. Leslie Consett Stephen was his
support, while bride’s sister Berry and
Beryl Osborne ’maided in a swirl of prim-
rose chiffons, whereon bloomed clumps of
the pretty spring flower. Canon Hirst tied
the knot, and over 100 guests went on to
the subsequent rejoicings at Woodstock, the
Hixson home.
Under the title of “The Bluebox” the wife
of journalist Arthur H. Adama with an
amiable partner, Mrs. George Clark, has
opened a dainty salon on the fourth floor
of 183 I’itt-street. Their handwork in-
cludes children’s picture frocks, pretty
undies and womanly trifles. Arthur is in
England at present and the two girls are at
boarding-school, s o Mrs. Arthur, finding
time long and empty without a husband,
took the plunge into trade.
Kindergarten-expert Margery Potts sails
on the Cathay in October for a visit to Mr.
and Mrs. William Hodge, of Rangoon, Burma.
Mrs. Hodge was the Titian-haired Helene
Howes who went over there last year to be
bridesmaid for her sister, Dr. Jeanette, and
made a romantic marriage herself only a
few weeks later. She has just returned from
her honeymoon trip to England, and Mar-
gery is to be her first visitor. The C. of E.
Grammar School in Forbes-street is giving
her leave of absence, and she will return to
her job in February.
Mrs. John Barlow, of the Catholic
Women’s Association, was a proud president
last week, when the first C.W.A. inter-State
and Overseas Conference was launched with
success. For two days it held a dense throng.
Some of the most brilliant papers were read
by nuns. The opening one, by Sister M. Dun-
stan, M.A., of St. Vincent’s, was on educa-
tion and social problems: Sister M. Aquinis,
from the Convent of Mercy, Goulburn, was
the arresting speaker of the second day. Mrs.
Fitzgerald, of the sweet voice and clear dic-
tion. was the mouthpiece for those too shy
to voice their own thoughts; she read four
papers in all. Archbishop Duhig opened the
Conference, and Archbishop Kelly was there
on both days, attended by Alonsignor O’Gor-
man. Archbishop Hanna, from America,
opened one session with a very long speech,
and Father Martindale and the Father Gen-
eral of the Carmelite Order in Rome gave
scholarly addresses.
Those nice Rivett girls who run the Chil-
dren’s Library at 119 Devonshire-street tor
the little ones who creep in from the ugly
streets and lanes of Surry Hills need further
help for their beloved needy. Their latest
achievement is Poporookh, at Point Clare,
the Children’s Library holiday home.
Already a cottage stands in the four and a
half acres of ground overlooking the
Hawkesbury, and here will be swimming,
boating, lisliing, riding, digging and build-
ing for the youngsters. Some of the older
boys are building their own shack, and as
subscriptions come along extra suites in the
form of railway and tramway cars will be
added to the snug little cottage. Cheques
to Elsie and Mary Rivett, Esperanee,
Gordon.
The exodus from the city of the viola, the
first and second violins, the ukulele and
concert grand has already commenced. The
first blow in the cause of decentralising
musical activities was struck by the forma-
tion of the National Music Club movement.
This was founded by baritone Oliver King,
and branches are already in existence at
Rose Bay, Wahroonga and Lindfield. The
idea is to have a club in each suburb or
country town to bring together enthusiasts
not only to indulge in home-grown music but
to induce distinguished art.sts to go wher-
ever good audiences will greet them. It is
a long and wearisome journey to the city
for many music-lovers. George Portus,
at Beale’s, can answer all inquiries. Next
meeting at the Con. on Thursday (20th)
evening at eight.
Next time Sydney organises a garden fete
for any of its manifold charities, the com-
mittee in charge should see that a bathroom
and ordinary toilet arrangements are at the
disposal of the women helpers. After a
recent big charity fete one of the helpers,
a leading lady in one of the current theatrical
shows, told The Bulletin that, though she
had been on the grounds from eleven in the
morning, she had failed to find any place
where she could even wash her hands. Just
want of thought, no doubt, on the part of
a busy committee; but not the soft of thing
to cause a rush of volunteers next time the
cry for help goes forth.
Sarah Hynes has totted up the sums col-
lected in N. S. Wales towards the memorial
portrait of Mrs. Ellis Rowan, the painter of
birds and flowers. The portrait is to hang
with the Rowan collection when the Com-
monwealth Government finds it a resting-
place. One hundred and five guineas has
been garnered in the State by the artist's
faithful little friend, and in Melbourne the
fund is considerably larger.
Mrs. Rolling, widow of Charles Kolling,
has given £16,000 to the University, to be de-
voted to the development of studies in mech-
anical engineering. Her husband was a Avell-
known engineer, and during his lifetime
hardly a big public school in Sydney hut
benefited from dealings with his firm. The
present gift is to be, divided between a Charles
Rolling travelling scholarship, a graduation
prize and a Charles Kolling mechanical engi-
neering laboratory.
There is one thing they run much better in
Australia than they do in England, in the
opinion of a just-returned traveller, and
that is the tea-shop business. According to
this authority the classic tea-liaunts of Lon-
don, such as Gunter’s' and Rumpelmayer’s,
are poor places compared with their oppo-
site numbers in Sydney and Melbourne —not
so tragically disappointing as regards food
and attendance as one of the historic chop-
houses, but getting on that way. The less
pretentious tea-shops, ion the other hand, are
declared to be marvels for the money. The
establishments of Messrs. Lyons, for example.
They extend now all over the metropolis, and
cater for all sections, from the city youth and
his girl, who want a certain amount of page-
antry for their money (and get it on economi-
cal lines at the Trocadero), to the very poor
who are catered for elsewhere. The Lyons
brothers, by the way, came originally from
Australia. So did Messrs. Spiers and Pond,
who preceded the Lyonses as the catering
emperors of London.
Although widely scattered, 130 descend-
ants of Mrs. Otto Breust managed to get
together to congratulate the old lady on her
seventy-ninth birthday. There were only
seven absentees out of her nine living child-
ren (there were 12 originally), 72 grand-
children and 56 great-grandchildren. The
lady was born in Adelaide, but travelled over
to the Temora district with her husband 45
years ago.
An auxiliary has been formed to help
St. Vincent’s Hospital. Mrs. Fanning is
president, Mrs. John Barlow her deputy.
Mrs. George Flannery and Helen Barlow
are the secretaries, and Miss Egan and Mrs.
Trefle the treasurers.
From London:—
“Edgar Park and Madge Titheradge announce
their marriage,” was the laconic intimation of the
comedienne’s wedding. Park, who is a widower, has
made frequent long stays in London. He is a
business associate of Henry Ford and has a large
fortune.


SELECTED WEDDING PRESENTS.
A. SAUNDERS’
Biscuit Barrel, English Decorated
China, Silver-plated Mount.
21/-
A. SAUNDERS’ Afternoon Tea Stand, pure Silver-plated.
A 1 Quality
£7/10/- SPECIAL VALUE.
A. SAUNDERS’ Presentation Salver, Solid Polished Oak, Silver-
plated Mounts and Shield. A1 Quality. 22 inches, £3/J0/-
Others 27/6, 32/6, 40/-, 50/-. 60/-
SAUNDERS’ Silver-plated Cake Basket,
pierced and burnished, 25/-
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDERS.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
hand-
A. SAUNDERS’ Afternoon Tea-
spoons, Pure Silver-plated, in
Velvet-lined Case.
7/6 complete.
With Sugar Tongs, 10/6
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker —Jeweller —Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Crisp Toast!
d
r PHE perfect way
A to make toast
is right at the table,
and the only way
to make it is the
UNIVERSAL
ELECTRIC TOASTER
way. Universal Toast is crisp without being dried up, it’s
fresh and hot—until you have tasted Universal Toast you
cannot realise what a wonderful difference there is.
Universal Electric Toasters are made in many designs—they
are all moderate in price and economical to use.
Take home a Universal Toaster to-day—you can get one at
any good Electrical Shop—and you will be thoroughly
satisfied with the result.
You can see the full range in our showroom.
W. G. Watson & Co. Ltd.
279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
200 Queen Street, Melbourne.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
Switches ?
i i >'
* ■
mmm
mm t. mi
IHIHIi
1
■
Replace Oil Lamps with.
DELCO-LIGHT
Enjoy the Advantages of Electricity
{TLECTRIC LIGHT flooding your rooms at
the touch of a switch —you may enjoy
this great convenience now, no matter how
distant your residence may be from town
electricity supplies. When you instal Delco-
Light your home becomes as brilliantly lit as
a new bungalow in a city suburb —matches,
kerosene lamps, air-gas and similar systems
are replaced with switches and electric lamps.
And with this dependable, modern lighting
come all those labor-saving facilities that
electricity has brought to the housewife in
the city. The electric iron, electric vacuum-
cleaner, pressure water system —these and
other appliance? may be employed in the
home that is equipped with Delco-Light. It
brings also the boon of permanent Electric
Refrigeration with Frigidaire. It provides
current for machinery. Delco-Light, in short,
is an unfailing source of light and power.
Delco-Light is self-contained, dependable,
economical. It is made for homes of all
sizes—for hotels, hospitals, theatres, halls
and boats. Thousands are in service through-
out Australia —each a working model of
efficiency. Let Delco-Light serve you. Secure
particulars personally, or send this coupon to
your nearest distributor.
wm
■
m m
WMF
DISTRIBUTORS:
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
307-15 Kent Street, Sydney
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide
STEWART & MACLEAN PTY.,
LTD.,
104 George Street, Launceston
Please send nic Booklet
of Delco-lAght.
■NAME
ADDRESS
“B,” giving full particulars
DELCO-LIGHT
Product of General Motors,


_ ToMark
nAM tsTAII Linen
Indispensable to every Household.
CASH'S NAMES# are dejtinctive,
yet neat fadeless and durable*
c$& r iy2£jtia/n&-
Sold by all
Best Drapers
Actual Sire, Style No, 6
■ i *
Trices:
I2dz, 7/6.
6dz, 6.
3dz, 3/6
'A few stitches and they’re on, ’
Write for Name Style Circular to
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Melb
Washing RIBBONS
refamnga-flg—
Fas NEW AFTER REPEATED WASHING"
anaa?
J
o
■ft* Finc/t Inland Oolf"
Link/ inAu/traiia
Are to be found at the
finest Country Hotel
in Australia the
Management—G. M. Lievain
RObERThCN
Inclusive Tariff, from £l/1/- per
day, and from £6/6/- per week.
Sydney Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street.
’Phone: 8649 X.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
e
S*< V tv ,°<*.
01®
<e
to*
jo*
,c^
Melbourne
Chatter
This city now lias a night club which
bears the name of a famous cigar. It is
located in what was the dance section of the
Ambassadors, off Ilowey-place. Repainted
white and green, and refurbished with car-
pets and furniture upholstered in dregs of
wine hue, with beaten brass bowls of blos-
soms upon the supper tables, the place looks
most inviting and comfy. The orchestra
plays softly and soothingly—a safe cover
for chatter and not a conversation-killer. The
size of the room does not permit of a large
membership, and the Corona is not likely to
have trouble in getting as many adherents as
it can cope with. Society has put its seal on
the venture, and the opening night was a very
decorous one. Dame Nellie Melba, who
joined Edric Henty’s party, was among the
dancers. Her favorite crimson velvet bridge
coat was worn over a gold-beaded gown of
dull amber shade. Her son, George Arm-
strong, and his wife were there with the diva,
Mrs. Armstrong wearing black relieved by pale
pink and sparkles. Wilma Clarke was sashed
with black and white that bisected glistening
silver lace. Geoffrey Gibbs was with his
fair-haired wife, whose black velvet robe
terminated in beaten silver embroidery. Mrs
Fred Gilder was surrounded with white tulle
frills, and her sister, Lavender Stuart, flut-
tered in green draperies. Pianist Moisei-
witsch, Irene Homer, Annie Croft and Bran-
don Peters gave the gathering a professional
flavoring. Lucy Stogdal, all red to her
satin shoes, Valerie I’urves, Phyllis Holmes
Hunt and Betty Shaw, who was with her
fiance, Dr. Davenport, helped to make up
a bunch of pi'etty girls. The Fred Scarletts,
who brought along their daughters Nancy
and Sadie, the Geoffi-oy Heaths and Mrs.
E. Robinson were also in the throng.
Disagreeable weather was served up on
Saturday; hot, dusty and oppressive, in con-
trast to the two previous days, when the
breeze blew off the snow-capped mountains.
Sports hied them to Moonee Valley race-
course, where there was a big crowd. Fair
punters found the cool tearoom beneath the
stand a welcome haven. At the committee
luncheon, presided over by chairman Alister
Clark, the guests included Premier Hogan
and his wife. Beneath the latter’s black
velvet coat was glimpsed a frock of hyacinth
blue, her millinery being black. Attired in
black with a touch of beige, Mrs. A. V. Hos-
kins. who has lately been seriously ill, looked
in the best of health. The Ben Lemprieres,
Dr. and Mrs. Stanley Argyle, Miss Mona
Officer, in a smart tailored grey-striped suit,
and Mrs. T. A. Tabart and daughter Pixie
were also guests of the committee.
“All the King’s Horses” began a 12-nights'
revival at the Comedy on Saturday, and
attracted a good house that gave the piece
a cordial reception. Irene Vanbrugh received
some lovely horticultural tributes. Mrs. W.
Scammell, of Perth, and her son, the G. Mas-
Jins, from South Australia, and Mrs. G.
Owers were among the r.s. patrons.
Ingredients culled from “Beau. Geste” and
“The Shiek” make up “The Desert Song,”
which was a first-night offering at His
Majesty’s ton Saturday. A new drop-cur-
tain picturing a desert scene was provided
for the occasion. The piece is full of color,
thronged with Arabs, soldiers of the French
Legion, Spanish maidens, beautifully clad
modern misses and ballerinas. The settings,
both interior and exterior, are picturesque.
Lance Fairfax, in the crimson robes and tur-
ban of the Red Shadow, makes a command-
ing figure mounted on a very-well-behaved
Arab charger. The honor of conducting
the orchestra at the premiere fell to Will
Quintrell, but the baton wlil pass to Howard
Carr in a few days’ time. A packed house
joyously applauded, and the perfume of piles
of flowers floated over the theatre when the
curtain fell for the last time. For once
the warmth of the night enabled women
patrons to put aside fur coats, and there
was a great gleaming of gold and metalled
wraps. Mrs. Leslie Macdonald wore a coat
that had emerald green beneath its golden
lame; May Beatty, whose entrance to the
stalls was a signal for vociferous recogni-
tion, drew around herself a cloak of straw-
berry shade with chinchilla fur. Dr. Mar-
garet McLorinan, the Richard Lintons, the
H. H. Smiths, Mrs. Garnet Leary, Benno
Moiseiwitsch and Mrs. Kingsbury Baillieu
were applauders. Knights George Tallis
and William Mcßeath viewed the show
from a box; and Hugh D. Mclntosh was in
an opposite pen with a party that included
Miss Banvard, lately with the Firm, who
is a bride of this week.
The appearance of John Brownlee in
’‘Elijah,” performed under Prof. Bernard
Heinze’s baton by the Philharmonic Society
and the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra at
the Town Hall on Saturday, was a musical
event that drew worthy patronage.
Rotarians who foregathered at Scott's one
night last week wore on their coat-lapels large
buttons bearing not only ‘their names but
their occupations. The accompanying women-
folk also advertised their names upon their
corsages, so everybody knew who was who
without the necessity of introduct.ons. Stage-
managers of the function were the new pre-
sident. Thomas Baker, of Kodaks, Ltd., and
his wife. The hostess’s gown of grey georg-
ette. with metal lace embellishments, was
worn under a wrap of pale pink chenille-
embossed crepe. A programme of music and
comedy was followed by supper and dancing.
Mezzo-soprano Ethel Peters was the vocalist;
Hamilton Bateman brought his violin; Lucy
Mackay and Marjorie Cardwell appeared in
romantic playlets; and Maie Drummond,
Gonza McGregor, Vera Fricke and Lucy
Mackay, all members of the Toe II League
of Women Helpers, presented, the little
comedy “I Won’t Tell.” Miss McGregor
was a very nice curate, her sleek black
Eton crop marking her for the part. The
Rotarian anthem “Waltzing Matilda” fur-
nished a choral interlude. Colonel H. C.
Brinsmead was there with his wife, whose
blue gown had a trail of sparkling embroid-
ery. Marion, Edith and Eleanor Shaw,
sisters of Mrs. Baker, were in the throng;
also Prof. Osborne, who is credited with
founding the Rotary movement in this city ;
the Sam McKays; Mr. and Mrs. A. E.
Boyes; Alex. Cameron, of the Tramways;
and Mrs. Cameron, attired in black velvet.
Mrs. .7. S. Fraser lent her South Yarra
home for a bridge gathering to promote the
Victoria League Ball. A trio of the younger
set engineered the party, which drew a crowd
of players, mostly members of the V.L. The
responsible maidens were Kitty Currie,
whose green frock melted into filmy lace
punctuation ; Sheila Morell, whose apple-
green attire was scattered with dewdrops;
and Marjorie Forbes, softly swathed
in georgette and lace of apricot tone. Mrs.
Fraser had a floral setting of offshoots
of gold, blending from the hue of the prim-
rose to the deep shades of the marigold, for
her apparel of black velvet and lace. Among
those who dealt cards were the Archibald
Curries, she in black lace and steel embroid-
ery ; Mrs. F. W. Eggleston; Elison Spowers,
the hon. general sec. of the V.L.; Mrs. Stan-
ley Addison ; and dozens and dozens of charm-
ing young misses.
The meditative expression caught here by
Ruskin sits on the features of Peggie Pabst,
a young art student who has also made a place
for herself as an elocutionist. She is a daughter
of the late Victor Pabst, a geologist of note
attached to the Bendigo School of Mines.
After his death
the family
moved to this
city, and his
daughter has
steadily pushed
ahead with an
art career.
Next month at
the Collins-
street kirk she
proposes to
enter a matri-
monial part-
nership with
Colin Thomp-
son, who is
now well
launched as a
singer, hisi nice
tenor voice
being retained
for the kirk's
solos and fre-
quently broad-
cast from 3LO studio. The engagement
has overwhelmed the young folk with con-
gratulations from friends in this city and
Bendigo.
Lieutenant-General Furse, of the Forestry
Commission, and his wife and daughter were
bidden by members of the Royal Colonial
Institute and Victoria League to partake of
luncheon at the Australia. The distinguished
visitor is president of the Imperial Insti-
tute, London, a sister-institution of the
R.Q.1., which accounted for the. 'special
gathering. Medical knight James Barrett,
president of the Victorian R.C.1., said wel-
coming words, to which the guest of honor
made reply. The Furse lady, who wmre an
ensemble gown of powder blue, with edg-
ings of pearl-grey fur and a harmonising
straw millinery, conveyed greetings and re-
membrances from her sister. Lady Stanley.
Lieut.-Gov. Irvine and his lady, the John
Grices and George Fairbairn were among the
titled folk who attended.
The Women’s Automobile Club has cast
off from its old moorings and will drop anchor
in future with the fair members of the
Royal Automobile Club in Queen-street. A
farewell brew was put on at the W.A.C.
rooms in Swanston-street, when Mrs. H. J.
Robertson, the president for the last five
years, received mementoes of her official
reign—a beautifully-fitted bag and an auto-
graph-book containing the names of all the
artists who had contributed to the pro-
grammes of club gatherings. Mrs. Robertson,
who wore gown and millinery of navy hue,
presented hon. sec. Mrs. J. B. Mills and
hon. treas. Mrs. Edgar Dye with souvenirs
of their service. Muriel Cheek, Jessie
Shmitli, Cecil Parkes and Margaret Kerr
gave a programme of music and recitation.
Marjorie Schmitt, whose profile is deline-
ated here by a Broothorn camera, is a young
violinist upon whom Prof. Bernard Heinze,
of the Uni. Con., builds high hopes. With
he r mothe r
and her sister
Gharlotta she
sets out in
October for
Europe, where
she will study
under one of
the famous
Contineiijta 1
maestros. Miss
Schmitt has
the distinction
of having won
the Hei n z e
S c h o 1 arship
for three years
in succession.
A farewell con-
cert, under the
auspices of the
Uni., Con., will
be given in her
honor on Octo-
ber 2 at the
Town Hall. Her sister Cliarlotta, who is
only 13 years of age, is a promising pianist
and a pupil of Louise Gargurevich. She
also will continue her musical studies abroad.
In raiment that might have graced the
fairy queen of our childish dreams, Peggy,
second daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs.
Robert W. Nichol, of Ballarat, said “I will”
to Gordon Senior James at Melbourne
Grammar School chapel. The bridegroom
is the eldest son of Walter James, one-time
Westralian Premier and Agent-General. The
James lady and her daughter Judy, who
’maided in a frock of delphinium-blue, made
the trip from Perth for the ceremony. White
satin that was clouded in diamente-sprinkled
chiffon, with a lengthy veil of old Limerick
lace, was worn by the bride, whose sister,
Mrs. Lionel Grimwade, and her husband
entertained afterwards at Menzies’.
A shipboard romance culminated on the
12th in the Big Smoke when Nancy Robin-
son, known to her pals as Nan, trailed white
satin pearl-embroidered draperies up the
aisle of St. Paul’s, Knightsbridge, to pledge
her troth to Francis Huntly Griffith, who
grows tea in Ceylon. The bride, who is on
tour with her parents, Arthur Robinson and
his lady, of Cliveden Mansions, was attended
by two ’maids arrayed in frocks blending-
tones of the early autumn, and by a small
trainbearer. The elder attendants were Judy
Bryant, of Sydney, and Hilda Lascelles, of
this city. There was an after-gathering at
the Langham Hotel.
Gwen Clare, only daughter of the late W.
Hosken, of Camberwell, slipped quietly into
matrimony with Stanley T. Wright, and they
were on their way to Canberra, where they
will make their home, before their friends
got word of the event. The ceremony was
performed at the Denham-street Methodist
Church, where the bridegroom, only son of
G. H. Wright, of Burwood, had long coached
the choir. Owing to the recent passing of
the bride’s father only relatives were bidden.
Doris Syred and Phyllis Wright were the
’maids.
Bernadine Pearson intends to embark on
a professional career not previously invaded
by her sex. With her mother, Mrs. W. Mar-
shall Pearson, she will sail in the Mazel to
Bremen, and will go on to Munich, where
she will enter as a Uni. student. The pair
will shelter with dad’s sister, whose husband
is a member of the professorial staff. There
Miss Pearson will take a course in chemical
engineering, with especial attention to the
chemistry of wood, in which extremely useful
branch of research Germany' leads the world.
As a student at Melbourne Uni. the girl
showed great promise, and her father, whose
interests are in forestry and timber, has
hopes of presently acquiring an able chemical
assistant.
The Norman Clappertons, with daughter
Audry, after steering their car around
Bananaland, have reached Lockhurst, and
come to a temporary anchorage at their
Ivwong station, where a house party will be
entertained till they return to this city for
the gay season.
Up two flights of stairs, over a shop in
Queen-street, near Bourke-strect, the Gong
Theatre, modelled upon the lines of the little
theatres of the Big Smoke, has established
itself in what was once a factory floor.
There are a commodious stage, four dress B-
rooms, and accommodation for an audience or
223. Walls, rafters, proscenium and cur-
tain are in blended tones of blue. I atro *
may 101 l in comfortable sea-grass chai s
during performances, and it is believed t
director Richard Garwyn and his lieutenant
Colin Tapley intend to pass round tea.
The Alfred Hospital mourned last week the
passing of its matron, Louisa Mann, who had
held her post for 16 years. In March patients
and staff bade her good-bye on the eve or a
holiday trip to England for six months.
Becoming ill on the liner, she spent the nrsL
few weeks in London in hospital and died
on September 10.
Jazz enthusiasts will be stunned to hear
that their craze is now being* cold-shouldered
in London, where the old dances are coming
back into popularity. Roy Daniel, who has
been there for the last two years, says in a
letter home that everyone has contracted
waltz fever. At a social hop with his partner,
Ada Crossley, they circled to the rhythm oi
the Blue Danube, for the old tunes have
also come back to favor. Lord Dicky Nevill
took the Australian under his wing, and the
exile has no complaint to make, having
secured a good appointment.
When the Jervis Bay was handed over to
her new owners Captain Daniel resigned his
command. The unpleasant incidents of his
last voyage have put him out of love with a
sea life, and he has come back with a deter-
mination to be a landowner, for, like all re-
tired sailormen, he has ideas of growing
things. Westralia has been chosen for his
venture.
Architect Will Lucas has nothing but plea-
sant things to say about his European ex-
periences. In London he showed the detail
drawings of his accepted design for Aus-
tralia’s memorial at Villers-Bretonneux, ana
they received high commendation at tin
Royal Academy. On the way back he went
to Macedonia, and visited the grave of his
soldier son.
Despite the bad times in the Old Dart,
which have put many experienced actresses
out of work, golden-haired Phyllis Best has
secured an engagement and is touring with
a “Hit the Deck” co. Musical comedy is
a new experience for her, but she appears
to be making good.
The W. M. Buntines are giving house-
room at Caulfield Grammar School to. Bishop
Chambers, of Tanganyika, and his wife, who
have paused here for a few days on their
way to Africa.
Mrs. Hugh Bullivant and her daughter
Ruth, who landed here a few days ago
after a trip to the Old Dart, stayed long
enough to greet relatives in this city before
returning to the family pastures at Forbes
tN.S.W.).
Lady Duckham, wife of the leader of the
economic mission now on its way to Aus-
tralia, comes of artistic stock. Her father
was the late A. D. Peppercorn, R.A., and
her sister Gertrude, a well-known pianist, is
married to Stacy Aumonier, the novelist.
The lady, who is accompanied by her son
and daughter on the present trip, is a keen
gardener, and she hopes in sunny Australia
to acquire new ideas about horticulture which
she can transplant to her own garden in
Surrey.
Quite picturesque was the wedding of
Mary Thornldy Macpherson and Angus Rode-
rick Urquliart, both of Western District
stations, at the Church of England, Cam-
perdown. It was an all-white satin affair, the
bride’s simple long gown being framed in a
veil of Limerick lace that cascaded over
white tulle. Four wee girls, whose frocks
and quaint caps were built rather about the
period of Charles 1., made fascinating ’maids
with their long gold baskets of spring
blossoms. The leading lady's cousin, Vera
Thornley, daughter of the Edward Thornleys,
attended as chief bridesmaid, a eoroneted
white silk net cap topping her satin frock
with its old-time ruffles of chiffon. The after-
teaing was spread at the pasturage of the
bride’s aunt, Mrs. William Boyd, at Camper-
down. Mrs. Angus Roderick Crquhart is
an heiress; she lately returned from abroad
with her grandmother, Mrs. W. Boyd, senr.,
who has been her legal guardian for years.
Signorina Alice Coy has been striving
to renew the impressions of early youth dur-
ing a slow saunter through Italy and France;
but she finds everything has changed. As
a child Alice’s home was the wide world
over which her celebrated parents produced
grand opera. Since their death she has lived
in Australia, and though many old friends
abroad have extended a warm welcome, an
early liner is bringing her back.
Architect Jack Plottel and his wife. Dr.
Rachel Goss, are beginning to think of com-
ing home. During the London season they
have been in the small colony of Australians
settled around Buckingham Gate. Ther
one can find branches of both the Chirnside
and Osborne families, the Stuart Murray
couple and a few Fairbairns, all near-
neighbors.


MOTHERS! Make this wonderful
money-saving family remedy
- «- foT " *■'
COUGHS, COLDS, CROUP
Bronchitis, Influenza and Whooping Cough
COSTS 2/- and SAVES £’
fs
Over one million Australian citizens annually prove that by adding sweet-
ened water to a two-shilling bottle of concentrated Heenzo you can make a
family supply of easily the best remedy money can buy for banishing coughs,
colds, croup, bronchitis, sore throats, influenza and whooping cough. A like
quantity of ordinary ready-made-up cough remedies, purchased in the
usual-sized bottles, would cost up to £l. Heenzo is efficacious as well as
economical. It is equally good for children or adults, and you will be
delighted with the speedy
way Heenzo soothes sore
throats, eases the chest,
and banishes even the
worst attacks of
coughing.
Mr. RAYMOND ELLIS, the eminent English Operatic Baritone, from
the British National Opera Co., is one of the many famous singers
who have expressed their appreciation of Heenzo as a remedy for
ailments of the chest and throat.
Mr. Raymond Ellis writes: “I feel I must join the many singers whoj
have placed on record their appreciation of Heenzo as a remedy for
coughs and colds. 1 am convinced that money could not buy a
speedier, more economical or more efficient remedy for soothing sore
throats, easing the chest, and banishing coughs and colds.”
Messrs. LEO, JAN and MISCHEL CHERNIAVSKY write:—
‘‘During the last nine years we have never been without a
supply of HEENZO on our world tours, for under even the
severest climatic conditions we have found it an ideal remedy
for coughs and influenza.”
STOP
. SMOKERS’
COUGH
Often the delicate membrances of the
throat are affected by smoking, causing
what is known as “smokers’ cough.” To
prevent this, take a HEENZO COUGH
DIAMOND occasionally between smokes,
and let it dissolve slowly in the mouth.
HEENZO COUGH DIAMONDS prevent
coughing, soothe sore throats, guard you
against chest and throat ailments, and
remove the smell of smoke from the
breath. They cost only 1/- per tin.
Always ask for
HEENZO
COUGH
DIAMONDS
#
should be used in every home
When Your Doctor Orders a TONIC!
People suffering from nerves, neuritis, insomnia, fatigue, anaemia, loss of
weight and other ailments caused by over-work, worry, exhausted nerves
and poorness of blood can quickly regain their health and strength by taking
a few boxes of HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS, the finest health-restoring
tonic known to medical science. HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS give you
plenty of “pep”; they make you eat, sleep and be well. Start to-day on the
road to health by taking NERVE NUTS. They cost only 3/- per box at all
chemists and stores.
HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS


The Union Bank of Australia, Limited
BALANCE SHEET, 29th February, 1928.
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d.
Capital Authorised 12,000,000 0 0
Capital Issued . . 12,000,000 0 0
Less: Reserve Lia-
bility thereon..- 8,000,000 0 0
Paid up ..£4,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 4,850,'000 0 0
Balance ot Undi-
Deposits . . 33,978,581 11 1
Bills Payable and
other Liabilities
(including Re-
serves held
against c0ntin-
£47,144,289 8 9
ASSETS.
£ s. cl.
Specie on hand and Cash Balances.. 7,311,928 11 8
Bullion and Advances on Bullion . . 76,8.18 6 1
.Money at Call and Short Notice in
London .. .. .. .. 760,000 0 0
Investments—
On account of Reserve Fund:
British Govern-
ment Securities. £1,000,000 0 0
Other Investments: —
British Govern-
ment, Australian
Government and
Municipal Securi-
ties . . .. 1,863,062 1 10
—— 2,863,062 110
Balance of Remittances and Drafts
in transit and Bills Receivable
at London Office . . . . . . 8,144,168 8 1
£19,156,017 7 8
Bills Discounted, Loans and other
Securities at the Branches and
in London .. .. . . . .27,600,996 17 7
Bank Premises in Australia and
New Zealand .. . . . . 286,600 0 0
London Leasehold
Premises . . £142,304 19 4
Reserves against
same and accrued
Interest .. 41,629 15 10
• 100,675 3 6
£47,144,289 8 9
STATEMENT OF PROFITS
Balance of Undivided Profits on 28th February, 1927 ..
Less: Dividend, July, 1927
London 10th July, 1928.
£360,438 12 1
262,500 0 0
Leaving a balance of
Profits of the past Year, after making provision in respect of Bad
and Doubtful Debts, and other Contingencies .. .. ..£1,531,695 16 4
Less:
Salaries and Allowances to the Australian
and New Zealand Staff .. .. ..£488,564 12 10
> General Expenses in Australia and New
Zealand —including Rent, Taxes,
Stationery, etc. . . .. . . . . 256,098 4 11
Remuneration to the Board of Directors
and Auditors, Salaries of London Office
Staff, Rent, Taxes, Stationery and General
Expenses . . . . . . . . . . 71,129 14 10
Income Tax .. . . .. .. .. 76,937 12 3
• 892,730 4 10
Less: Interim Dividend, January, 1928
Deduct: Provision for New Buildings .. .. .. .. .. .. £50,000 0 0
Appropriation in aid of Bank’s Gurantee and Provident Fund.. 25,000 0 0
£97,938 12 1
Balance of Undivided Profits at this date ..
..£399,404 3 7
W. A. LAING, Manager.
S. F. GARDNER, Accountant.
H. P. STURGIS 1
HUGH FLOWER |-
S. R. LIVINGSTONE-LEARMONTIIJ
Directors.
Auditors’ Certificate and Report.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 113 of the Companies (Consolidation) Act, 1908, we
report to the Shareholders as follows: —
We have examined the above Balance Sheet with the books at Head Office and have had access to the
Branch Accounts transmitted to the Head Office from Australia and New Zealand. We have verified the
correctness of the Cash, Money at Call and Short Notice, Investments, and the Bills of Exchange held in
London, and having obtained all the information and explanations we have required, we are of opinion that
such Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Com-
pany’s affairs according to the best of our information and the explanations given to us and as shown by the
books of the Company and the said Branch Accounts.
London, 10th July, 1928. WHIN.NEY, SMTTH & WHINNEY, Auditors.
AUSTRALASIAN ESTABLISHMENT:
General Manager for Australasia, W. A. LEITCH, Esq.
Head Office in Australia, Melbourne.
Manager at Sydney (Corner Pitt and Hunter Streets), G. V. OLDHAM, Esq.
Elegant — Efficient- —Exact
ro
'IpHREE words which appropriately define
the craftsmanship that is ELGIN.
An ELGIN will engender your pride and
your trust alike, for rare artistry and fine
craftsmanship are welded into it.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
<§>lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCEAND EFFICIENCY
'friis* Jrade Mark
dfs
in the Watch Care
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will <?uote you price for the original.
FAITHFUL SERVICE
A quality that is built
into every ‘Swan’ Pen
G.E.5.
A GREAT many ‘Swans’ have earned
the right to pass their old age in leisured
ease and retirement.
But few actually do. Years of intimate
association with the daily life of their owners
form a bond of friendship which is not
easily broken.
The unremitting toil of a lifetime finds the
‘ Swan 1 still ready to serve and please.
“ Swan ” Self-Filling Pens from 17/6 upwards.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Head Office : Swan House, 133& 135, Oxford St., London, W.I.
Facto:ies: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
“Swan” Pens, “ Blackbird” Pens, ” Swan ” Ink and
“ Fyne-Poynt” Pencils.
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
6
*
FEN
a, ose itnoW - use it a lifetime
for
SWAN
PENS
ami
ALL PENS
IT
G 1
a
m
m
rim
The Cigar of generous size and weight.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6dL
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free.
CRAIG and AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY


Amusements,
THE REGENT
Australia’s Most Luxurious Theatre.
The Home of
the Superior Motion Picture
(Direction Hoyt’s Theatres, Ltd.) and the Effective Presentation.
MARGARET MANN in the William Fox Production FOUR SONS,
The Motion Picture aimed straight at the heart of Humanity.
Also, WILLIAM HAINES in TELLING THE WORLD.
EMPIRE THEATRE,
Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square,
Nightly at 8. Matinees Wed. and Thurs. at 2.15.
SECOND MONSTER DOUBLE BILL.
The Metro-Ooldwvn-Mayer Super Production,
ANNIE LAURIE,
To be preceded by a 90-Minute Musical Comedy,
ERIS,
With an all-star cast and the Famous Empire
Pony Ballet.
Prices: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6. Reserves MAIOOO.
And all City Booking Offices.
CJYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J O WIT T 1 AMS< >* rrn present
HER MAJESTY’S: STUDENT PRINCE.
ROYAL:INTERFERENCE.
Commencing Saturday.
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
Commencing Saturday.
PALACE. BIRD IN HAND.
Commencing Saturday.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
°* MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S : THE DESERT SONG.
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE SILENT HOUSE.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE.
ALL THE KING’S HORSES.
Commencing Saturday Next.
ATHENAEUM THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
E. J. CARROLL presents,
By arrangement with Richard White and Eric Edgley,
WHITE COLLARS.
Three acts of delicious comedy—with a laugh
in every line.
UO.YT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
WILLIAM HAINES in
TELLING THE WORLD.
ALSO
LA BOHEME.
With JOHN GILBERT and LILIAN GISH.
JtyJAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY.
IRENE RICH in the Warner Bros.’ comedy,
BEWARE OF MARRIED MEN.
Censored for children over 6 and under 16 years
of age.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790.
VING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MURIEL STARR in
THE DONOVAN AFFAIR.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
1 SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The Royale Syncopators Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
Missing Friends.
SHEPHERD, VICTOR THEODORE, and JOHN
MAURICE, children of John Thomas Shepherd
and Sarah Alice Shepherd, will hear something to
their advantage if they communicate with NATIONAL
TRUSTEES COMPANY, 113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
1 ZEALAND
WELLINGTON DISTRICT No. 3254
(IN DIVORCE)
TO EDWIN JARVIS HAINES formerly
of Palmerston North in New Zealand then
of Sydney in the State of New South Wales
but now of address unknown Signwriter.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of NeAv
Zealand at Wellington citing you to appear
and answer the petition of MABEL ANNIE
ALICE KATE HAINES of Palmerston
North Married Woman wherein she prays
for a dissolution of her marriage with you
on the ground that while living separately
from you the said Edwin Jarvis Haines for
a period of three years and upwards namely
from the 31st day of October 1924 down
to the date of the presentation of her peti-
tion she has been habitually and without
just cause left by you without maintenance
and you have thereby wilfully and without
just cause or reasonable excuse deserted her
and left her so deserted for the said period
of three years and upwards and such
Citation intimates that in default of your
so doing the Court will proceed to hear
the said petition and to pronounce sen-
tence therein notwithstanding your absence
NOW THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE
that for. the purpose aforesaid you are
within 21 days after the publication of
this notice to attend in person or by your
Solicitor at the Supreme Court Office at
Wellington and there to enter an appear-
ance without which you will not be allowed
to address the Court at any stage of the
proceedings. A copy of the said Citation
and petition will be supplied to you on your
applying for the same at the Supreme Court
Office at Wellington.
DATED at Wellington this 7th day of
September 1928.
E. RHODES,
Deputy-Registrar.
Friends of the respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement. Percy Wyndham Jackson is
the Solicitor for the Petitioner whose
address for service is at the office of Mes-
sieurs Wilford, Levi and Jackson, Solicitors,
15 Stout Street, Wellington, in New Zealand.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 TASMANIA
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO MARY ISABELLA BROOKS formerly
of Hobart in Tasmania.
WHEREAS a Citation has issued out
of this Court citing you to appear and
answer the Petition of your husband WIL-
LIAM BROOKS praying for a dissolution
of his marriage with you on the ground
of desertion TAKE NOTICE that unless
within thirty days from the date of the pub-
lication hereof you cause an appearance to
be entered in the Registry of the said Court
at Hobart to answer the said Petition the
Court will proceed to hear and determine
the said charge your absence notwith-
standing.
DATED this eleventh day of September
1928.
A. G. BRAMMALL,
Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
GATENBY, JOHNSON & WALKER,
of Commercial Bank of Australia Chambers,
Collins and Elizabeth Streets, Hobart,
Proctors for the Petitioner.
IN THE COURT OF INSOLVENCY
1 ADELAIDE SOUTH AUSTRALIA
IN THE MATTER of a Deed of Assign-
ment by JAMES HENRY BROWNE of
Happy Valley in the State of South Aus-
tralia Orazmr dated 26th October 1925.
TAKE NOTICE that the above Court
will be moved on Friday the 23rd day of
November 1928 at 10.30 a.m. by Counsel on
behalf of the Trustees of the said Deed of
Assignment that the Proof of Debt lodged
by Joseph Nichols Hansen of Alice Springs
fßazier b« disallowed when the said Joseph
Nichols Hansen will be heard if he appears
to support the admission of the said Proof
of Debt.
DATED this 12th day of September, 1928.
HERBERT SOLOMON,
Ware Chambers,
King William Street. Adelaide,
Solicitor for the said Trustees.
To Joseph Nichols Hansen,
Grazier, Alice Springs.
“THE WOMAN'S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price - 3d.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Perth Club Ball is usually reckoned the
best of the year, though one square foot of
floor space per dancer is the usual allotment
for the earlier part of the evening. This
year there were a great marquee on the
lawn, several buffets, supper in the billiard-
room and dancing in the dining-room.
William Lathlain and his lady, she
in black, embroidered in rose clusters and
pencil lines of bugle beads, did the hand-
shaking in the palm-decorated hall and escor-
ted the Campions to the v.-r. carpet in the
marquee. Lady Campion was in black pat-
terned with ashes-of-roses and gold beads. Mrs.
Griffiths Bowen wore pastel-tinted satin gleam-
ing with silver; Mrs. Jess was in scarlet, and
Joy Lathlain in seaweed-pink taffetas. Peggy
Wood wore plisse tiers of white georgette;
Mrs. Dakin was in plumbago-blue adorned
with crystal and steel-grey beads; Mrs.
Lazarus, in black, brought her daughter Julia,
in a longish gown of black lace. Maude
Mitchell wore black and pale pink; Doreen
O’Hara, white-beaded georgette; and May
Padbury a bouffant frock of apricot taffetas.
The bride of Charles Foulkes Taylor, son
of Mrs. Foulkes Taylor, of Outram-street,
did not change her name on her wedding
day. She is an English girl, and was before
her marriage Miss Rosemary Taylor, of Bit-
ney Park Lodge, London. The couple, who
were married at Holy Trinity Church,
Brompton, leave for Australia in September,
and plan to break their journey at Pt. Sudan
for a visit to Dr. Gawler and his wife.
A pretty bride was Peggy Murray, now
Mrs. Jock Morrison. For her appointment
in St. George’s Cathedral she chose a double-
tiered gown of pink georgette and a Bang-
kok straw hat. Her sister Helen attended in
blue and a black hat.
Pictured here by Webb and Webb is Hugo
Throssell, V.C., husband of novelist Katharine
Susannah Prichard. A member of one of the
old Westralian
‘‘amilies, Hugo
rhrossell was
educated
it Prince
Ufred’s, Adel-
lide, where he
vas something
•f a star ath-
lete, winning
nany trophies
'or running.
He is a good
horseman, and
his first-hand
knowledge o f
mt-back life,
Dithered from
his station ex-
perience, is of
inval u a b le
issistance to
his wife in her
books. He
now fills the job of soldiers’ representative
on the Land Settlement Board, and carries ‘
on a land-agency of his own. His war record
was splendid.
A note from “A.G.M.” (Lond.) :
The Marchioness of Zetland was “at home” on
June 26 for the special purpose of showing off a
collection of embroidery done by disabled soldiers.
The star exhibit is a head of the Duke of Welling-
ton, a wonderful piece of work in petit point, which
has won the enthusiastic admiration of the Queen,
herself an expert needlewoman. The work is a
commission from Mrs. Sidney Wilcox, of Adelaide,
whose interest has evoked her Majesty’s commen-
dation. This lady belongs to the family of Joseph
Wilcox, who fought with Wellington at Waterloo,
and was favorably mentioned by the great general.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The Wattle League has been organising
functions to raise money for the Consump-
tive Sanatorium, and the Old Hobartians’
annual ball was included in the appeal, with
a most satisfactory result. The City Hall
was decorated in O.LI. colors, red, green
and blue. The O’Gradys were both present,
Margaret in madonna-blue crepe romaine.
The Child Welfare Association’s dance at
the Continental scored a success satisfactory
to the promoters, who had worked hard to
ensure it. Dancers of all ages crowded the
floor, and the spring flowers of the decora-
tions gave a gorgeous effect. The committee
wa s headed by the Nicholls lady.
Accounts have come to hand of the wed-
ding, at St. George’s, Hanover-square, Lon-
don, of the T. W. H. Clarkes’ eldest daughter,
Ronda, to Commander I. W. Whitehoon,
R.N. The bride wore a lovely draped gown of
ivory satin, with long train of the same,
and a tulle veil hemmed with rows of pearls
and orange buds. The ’maids were Joyce
Lindsay (London) and Rhona Lyons
(Hobart), cousins of the bride ; Ayliffe Neil
(stepdaughter of Norman Bayles) and Lilian
Whitehoon, the bridegroom’s sister. All four
were in pale amber georgette, with large
crinoline straw hats trimmed with velvet to
match the dresses. The lion. Mrs. Robert
Lindsay held a reception at 12 Berkeley-
souare after the wedding.
St. David’s Cathedral was a-blush with
pink Japanese peach and plum blossoms
for the wedding of Margaret Ross-Reynolds
and Captain Wordsworth. The bride’s silver-
sequined frock, cut on peacock lines, had a
train of silver lace. The tulle veil fell
from beneath a chaplet of pearls and orange
buds, and was held by a little pearl-embroid-
ered chinstrap. The sleeves, long and tight,
were cut into points over the hands. Two
sisters, Nancy and Betty, ’maided in dart
champagne-colored frocks with designs in
gold beading, and lapis lazuli-blue hats. The,
bride’s parents entertained a throng of guests
at their house at Sandy Bay after the cere-
mony. The young couple will make their
home in India, where Capt. Wordsworth
will rejoin his regiment.
We don’t often get a chance to see our-
selves as others see us, but an opportunity
was given to a select few the other day,
when there was a private screening of “Tas-
mania at Work and Play,” at His Majesty’s
Theatre. His Ex. and Miss O’Grady were
among the audience, and the film was unani-
mously praised. The director is Brandon
Cremer, whose long stage experience has
given him an eye for pictorial effects.
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Two debs, Constance Tighe and Mora
Hunter, curtsied ’neath the light of lanterns
to Sir John and Lady Goodwin at the ball
held on board the Orama in aid of the cancer
fund. Throughout the evening guests roamed
the ship and expressed admiration of the
comforts of this spacious liner. The vice-
regals were attended by the newly-arrived
secretary. Colonel L. E. V. Wilmer, and
were accompanied by Mrs. N. A. H. Camp-
bell and Mary Macgregor. Lady Goodwin
wore a ruby-red satin frock and Oriental
coat. Chief-Justice Blair's wife was in
moonlight blue; Mrs. Cecil Palmer chose
black mariette; Mrs. Lockhart Gibson wore
black satin and gold lace, and burnt-orange
mariette was worn by Mary Macgregor.
The September race nmeting at Ascot
brought forth some pretty summer frocking.
Wide-brimmed hats were in favor. Mrs.
Isaac Moore, who entertained friends to tea
on the committee verandah, wore green- and
rose-patterned crepe de Chine; Mrs. J. T.
Bell was in black, with hat to match ; Mrs.
J. H. S. Barnes added an Oriental scarf
to her navy frock and black hat; and Cicely
Garrick wore floral ninon.
The home of the late Samuel Griffith was
lent by the Misses Griffith for a garden party
to help the preparations for St. John’s
Cathedral fete. Gay forget-me-not beds,
sweet lavender and shady trees made a plea-
sant setting for a big crowd. Dean de Witc
Batty and Nell Griffith received Lady Good-
win, and there was music in the ballroom.
The Hamilton Girl Guides prevailed on
Lady Goodwin to open their new club-house
at Ascot, and her Ex. said glowing things
about guiding before she accepted a gold
key in memory of the event. Mrs. E. H.
Macartney, State Commissioner, and Alice
Hawthorn, Divisional Commissioner, were
there.
Two thousand kiddies from various insti-
tutions in this city were taken out to
Sandgate on a recent sunny morning by
members of the R.A.C. The motor-cars that
carried the youngsters were gaily decorated,
and an unlimited supply of eatables and
drinkables was provided.
Though they spent only a few hours here
the delegates to the Rutary Conference in
Tokio, brought by the Aki Marti, were enter-
tained at luncheon at Lennon’s (their Exes,
were among the throng), and afterwards
were shown some of our beauty spots.
From Finland comes Madame Aiuo Malm-
berg, a distinguished writer. The Orama
brought her, and her mission is to ascertain
how the Finnish community of Banana-
land (which numbers several thousands) is
getting along in a new continent. Vice-
Consul Galbraith entertained the visitor at
lunch.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Show, hot on the heels of Synod, has
brought ninety per cent, of the country
to town, to the joy of shopkeepers, who find
Mrs. and the Misses Wayback (particularly
the Misses) still in a buying mood, in spite
of recalcitrant rain. As a lighter side to
Synod deliberations there was a garden
party at Bishop’s Court, but Anglican energy
will reach its high peak next month. That
brings the Church Congress and as an item of
it a pageant of church history which is to be
staged in the Exhibition Building and at
which the Governor and Lady Hore-Ruthven
will be present.
Home industries bulked larger than ever at
the Show in a new pavilion of their own.
They were so excellent that it is perhaps
churlish to wish that there could be more of
plain needlework and less of fancy, and that
cooks should pay more attention to roasts and
vegetables and less to cakes and scones. As
usual the S.P.C.A.’s Animal Week has coin-
cided with the Show. . Items of it wore a
dance at the Floating Palais, a street button
day, and a grisly exhibition of photographs
of ill-treated animals and of the weapons
f wherewith some of the ill-treatment was
done.
There has been hunting at Virginia,
mostly over the Buckland Park and Vir-
ginia Park properties, with stirrup cups
from the E. A. Brooks and the R. J. Legoes
on the way, and tea at the Institute with
the whole district as host. Road-followers
included three very youthful Dianas on
ponies—the Brooks’ youngest daughter Rose-
mary and two of her small friends.
From England comes news of the engage-
ment of the Arthur Rymills’ only daughter
Nancy to a Tassy medico. Dr. Tom Giblin,
at present in London doing a post-graduate
course. The Rymills, by the way, do not
return till March.
An Adelaidean has added to the list of
Australian novels—Mrs. Kate Helen Weston,
well known for her work for women’s
societies and at the Conservatorium, and for
a previous essay in fiction, “The Man Mac-
Donald.” Her new book is “A Vagabond
Soul” and much of the action is in Sydney.
The engagement is announced of Madeline,
younger daughter of the late Arthur Ware
and Mrs. Arthur Ware, to William Jorgen-
sen, also of this village.
Sir Benjamin Morgan and his lady were
the guests of the Edward Lucases at Medin-
die while they were here. There were lunches
for him at the Show and at Parliament House
and with the Constitutional Club, and in-
spections of industries included a motor
tour through some of the vine country.


•This Singular Book Wields a
Strange Power Over Its Readers
Giving them a MAGNETIC PERSONALITY almost instanthjf
nmm
ss*
m
Read this Book—Prove that it Can
Multiply Your Present Income
A STRANGE book! A book that
seems to cast a spell over
every person who turns its pages!
A copy of this book was left
lying on a hotel table for a few
weeks. Nearly 400 people saw the
book—read a few pages—and then
sent for a copy l
In another case a physician
placed a copy in his waiting room.
More than 200 patients saw the
book—read part of it—and then
ordered copies for themselves I
Why are people so profoundly af-
fected by this book?—so anxious to
get a copy ? The answer
is simple. The book
reveals to them for the
frrst time how any one
can develop a Magnetic
Personality instantly I
It explains how to gain
overnight the personal
charm that attracts
countless friends the
self-confidence that in-
sures quick success in
any business.
It tells how to
people to you at once,
irresistibly—how to be
popular in any society
—how to overcqme al-
most at once any ti-
midity you may have —
how to be a magnet
of human attraction,
well-liked wherever
you go!
Book Tells You
Dow to develop a Mag-
netic Personality
How to use certain
Oriental Secrets
How to gain perfect
nerve oontrol
How t a read people’s
feelings by watching
their mouths
How to read people’s
thoughts by watch-
ing their eyes
How to develop a mag-
netic eye
How to make your face
appear 20 years younger
How to control others
by a glance
How to use Magnetic
Healing
How to end awkward-
ness and timidity
How to attract the op-
posite sex
How to get ahead In your
business or profession
How to make your
subconscious mind
work wonders
And dozens of other
vitaJ topics
Best of all it tells you how to
accomplish these results instanta-
neouslyl
Whence Comes This
Uncanny Volume?
Forty years ago, Edmund Shaftes-
bury, student of the human mind, set
out to' discover the secret of Personal
Magnetism. He applied his discoveries
to his friends. Results were astonish-
ing! His methods seemed to trans-
form people .into entirely new beings.'
Shaftesbury’s fame spread. Great men
came to him. His students and friends
embraced such names as Gladstpne,
Queen Victoria, Edwin Booth. Henry
Ward Beecher, and Cardinal Gibbons.
Until recently, Shaftes-
bury’s teachings have
been available only to
people who could pay.XSO
or £lOO each for instruc-
tion books. Now, his
wonderful teachings have
been collected Into a
single volume, at a price
within the reach ■of all.'
And furthermore. Shaftes-
bury has consented to re-
veal hundreds of new
discoveries never before
put Into print
Strange Effect on
Readers
Readers of this book
quickly become masters
of a singular power to
Influence men and women
around them. Not by
force—not by loud argu-
ment But rather by some
Bubtle, insinuating power
that sways men's emo-
tions. They are able, to
play on people's feelings
just as a skilled violinist
plays upon h violin
1$ It' any wofider that thousands of
men and women say that they are
overjoyed with the results .they have
received? One enthusiast said of this
volume. “Things l have read there 1
would never have "dreamed of ’’ An-
other wrote. "I would not give up
what Shaftesbury has taught me for
£lOO,OOO !'
In your everyday life—in social life
—you will find this booh of immense
value You will learn to fascinate peo-
ple you meet—to attract new friends—
to gain speedy promotion in business.
This is for you today and now —not in
the far distant. future. What would you
not give for good health, plenty of friends,
and material success in life? All thesi? are
• within your grasp il you will only invesi a
small sum and act on the instructions given.
As a special mdueement, though designed
to retail at 30/-, we are making a reduction
to readers of this papet, and will post a
copyol "Instantaneous Personal Magnetism"
bound in handsome daik burgundy cloth
cover, gold embossed, for twenty-six shillings
(including 1/- postage).
Do not hesitate —Act
Write your name and address on form be-
low (in BLOCK LETTERS PLEASE) and
enclose P.N's. or Cheque to value o( 26/-
Address to Dept. B. P.O. Box 57. C.P.O.
ALBERT & SON LTD.,
Booksellers by appointment to W A
University,
180 Murray St„ Perth. W.A.
Please send ...copytiesj of "Instantaneous
Personal Magnetism" to the following address:
Name
Address .
State L_
Enclosed ,
This book cannot be procured elsewhere in Australia,
butonly from Ihe Sole Agents:
ALBERT & SON LTD., PERTH, W A.
In answering Ih*c advertisement it is desirable that you mention this magazine, or paper
WHEN A DOCTOR
GETS INDIGESTION
He doesn’t trifle with it by taking anti-acids.
lle knows he must get rid of the cause of
the acid, or the trouble will soon come back.
The doctor knows no better remedy than
pepsin; and the best form of pepsin for
stomach sufferers is Para-Pepsin. This gives
quick, harmless relief, maintains the normal,
healthy acid balance necessary to proper
digestion and prevents the possibility of dan-
gerous excess acidity. Para-Pepsin is sold in
tablet form by chemists everywhere at tri-
fling cost, and those inclined to stomach
weakness say they wouldn’t be without it
for worlds.
SAFE with GUYATT’Si
df
The improved Guyatt
Elastic Truss is the latest
and most efficient Elastic
Truss on the market to-day.
It has been altered and
improved in several import-
ant points of construction,
until its strength, efficiency
and durability have been greatly increased. A careful
examination of this Truss will prove every claim
made for its advantage over others.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
GUYATT & CO.,
Expert Makers of Surgical Appliances,
Dept. 8., 257 a George St., Sydney.
Opposite Bridge Street.
<b
FOR 86 YEARS
“ The Examiner'’ has been the trusted Friend of the Family
in Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in
Tasmania, and is still the Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS
Pty. Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
MR. V. W. MARGETTS,
122 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.
MR. W. G. DOUGAN,
701 Herald Building, ’
66 Pitt Street
SYDNEY. ’ •
BAGSHAW’S
BAOSHAVTS hfllS
ASTHMA* I Mi*
POWDER I m
im
m
mm
ASTHMA POWDER
(2/6 All Chemists)
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Post Free, 2/9, from The Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
“THE AGE."
Established 185/f.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a publication that has enjoyed
the confidence of its readers for 74 years, and,
by its honesty of purpose, sane political prin-
ciples and constructive Policy of Protection,
has won an entry into the homes of over 123,000
subscribers daily.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER TO
“THE AGE.”
You will enjoy the directness of its articles,
and appreciate the news which day by day
covers the broadest possible survey of the
world’s happenings.
Price Ud. per copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free within
the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes Over 1,000,000 Advertise-
ments Annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agencies of the Commonwealth or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
GREY
k HAIR
1 WOULD
f SPOIL
ITJ
\
Y\°
\c»
$o
vV®
S«
rf\\ e
( V eS
se»
o®°
V\C»
\^r
sv^v
\y-
ct°
Cjt9-
&?V*> 4
Cl> 6
r
WALNUT
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
‘THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know
r L f ty/:
A
//
>v\
I
&
•XN
K<
v\X
!h. .A
ft
/#■
MAKITIE LAMP/
■* A<fbi. S ivM.M \ \ * a-v *. * '• *. v . *
9-^0
t&z
&
-CANDLE POtfER
So restful to tired
eyes, so simple, so eco-
nomical. Three hours’ light
for one penny.
Use electric light for its con-
venience, BUT for your, eyes’
sake, light an Aladdin for
reading or sewing.
Chases gloom away ; floods your
home with soft white light.
Costs little and saves that cost
oyer and over again. Burns 94%
air, 6% kerosene vapour, lights
on a wick like an ordinary lamp.
Let us arrange a Free Trial through
your local Dealer. Write for par-
ticulars of rius FREE OFFER.
Aladdin Industries Ltd.
852 Aladdin House,
49-53 Shepherd St., SYDNEY
An Aladdin Dealer in every town.


fs
df
sd
Sore Throat
is quickly conquered
by a few tablets of
fORMAMINf
The Germ-killing Throat tablets
At all Chem’sts.
Genatosan Ltd, Loughborough, England.
17.
A BANK ACCOUNT
gives you power and safety. Apart from its positive stimulation
of the sense of Thrift, a Bank Account simplifies your operations
and widens their scope. In or out of business hours, it facilitates
your transactions and surrounds all your dealings with dignity,
impressive on your clients and associates.
A Cheque Account is a record of payments, practically a
Book-keeping System in itself.
Additionally it introduces, to your service, the innumerable
banking advantages and facilities that a modern banking institution
provides.
CoiEonwealib lank of Itotralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
SERVICE ,
-witha.Simle/
»tv
xX>
■' (p
Vtv' c
M °
V e
r'«
\V\e
ttv
vv^
ic.e
,s» tC
Jv& c
»\e»*.
<o
V"
tot
S r? c9 t
Asv'
U\e
\Ve
ViO°
p t' otV
' ty
Tariff from £3 10/- weekly
>GROSVENOR
f* Finest Unlicensed .Hotel
Opp. Railway Sfn.North Terrace. JHSwifc - Manager
“THE BULLETIN’S” GREAT £500 PRIZE STORY.
COONARDOO.
By- Katharine susannah Prichard.
Illustrations
by
C. H. PERCIVAL.
“‘I’m going to marry
white and stick white,’ Hugh
said, obstinate lines settling on
either side of his mouth.”
Synopsis : To leave it debt-free for
her son, Hughie, Mrs. Bessie Watt
parsimoniously manages Wytaliba sta-
tion, in the north-west of W.A., which
she bought from Saul Hardy, who lives
at the homestead. Mrs. Watt allows
the aboriginal station-workers to live
their native life, hut bargains with
Warieda not to take Coonardoo as his
wife until the girl is 16. She resents
the attempt of Sam (deary, a station
owner who includes gins in his house-
hold, to buy Coonardoo from her
father. Hughie, now a young man,
returns from school at Perth with his
fiancee, Jessica Haywood. Geary
shrewdly tells his friend Bob Hall
that Mrs. Bessie arranged the visit to
discourage Jessica. Mrs. Watt, who
has become ill, hands the management
to Hugh, and he enters enthusiastically
into the mustering that is going on.
WHEN Geary and Cock-eyed Bob went
up to have a look at the horses
with Hugh, the boys- were turn-
ing mares and foals from the mob
into the next yard. Warieda and Chitali
singled out the foal they were after
and ran him round the yard until he was
separated from his mother. Then the gate
of the crush opened; and the young thing
found himself between the high rails of a
narrow lane just big enough to hold a
horse. A gate at the further end opened;
he bounded into the round yard; Wanna
slammed the gate and swung a chain across
the posts.
Geary and Bob stood up against the
rails, inspecting the horses.
Hugh had his horse book. A fire was
smouldering in a log beside the rails of the
pound. Branding irons were in the fire.
Chitali and Mick caught a colt by a running
noose in the hide rope and held him against
the fence. Warieda, on the other side, passed
an iron through to Hugh, who held the
brand to the colt’s near shoulder. Wanna
swung the gate and the colt galloped back
to his dam. -
“Cooked him that time, Youie!” Geary
yelled jocosely.
Hugh, entering the name and description
of the colt, with the number of his mare, in
the horse book, did not speak.
The boys had a chestnut filly ready for
him. He jabbed her shoulder with the
T7W, numbered her on the neck and
entered name and number in his book.
Children from the uloo had come to play
in the shade of the brushwood shed. They
dashed behind Sam Geary and Bob, limbs
gleaming through the torn rags of their
garments. Charmi had picked up the horns
of a dead bullock, and with them on her
head was “rushing” the other children.
Eddy and scream of the children’s laughter
flew out from the shadow of the thatched
shed, against the clear morning sky, as
they went all through the breaking and
branding.
“He’s a good-looker, Youie,” Geary
called as a four-year-old stallion, dark bay,
galloped madly round the pound, snorting,
stopping to gaze with wild, terrified eyes
through the barred circle of the yard.
“Not too bad,” Hugh agreed.
Caught by the flying noose of Chitali’s
hide rope, the horse galloped more madly
than ever, banging against the walls of the
yard; then, throwing himself down in the
dust, he squealed like a pig. The brand
fixed, black on his hide, with his tail stuck
out, head held stiff and straight up, stepping
short and high, he was turned from the
pound into the next yard.
All the morning Hugh and the boys were
busy branding and gelding, while Bob gave
a hand and Geary stretched on the ground
of the shed watching the horses and children.
“Coonardoo’s kids, aren’t they—the two
little girls?” he asked.
“Eeh-mm,” Hugh replied, busy with his
book.
A filly, flashing and sprightly, dashed into
the pound. She rushed round the yard,
hanging the walls, trying to jump them,
scrambling up and falling back, squealing
and blowing.
“What’ll we call her, Warieda?” Hughie
asked.
“Coonardoo’s mare Thetis grow’m.’’
“She did, did she?” Hugh looked up.
“Let’s call her Thetis the Second, then.
And give her to Coonardoo, from me.”
Warieda grinned.
“Mother’s a dam sight better at names
than I am,” Hugh explained to Geary.
“I’ll have to read up these Dago goddesses
a bit.”
At mid-day the talk round the dinner
table was all of breaking and branding, and
of the horses in the yards.
“Wild as hawks they are, l'ight enough,
Missus,” Geary told Mrs. Bessie. “And
not much good. I noticed a couple of
bumble-foots among them.”
“Drought foals,” Saul Hardy muttered.
“They get it gallopin’ when the feed’s
scarce. Youie says there’s a few good Hera
colts, though.”
“Too right. I liked the filly he give
Coonardoo!”
“Coonardoo?”
“It was to please Warieda”—Hugh looked
across at his mother.
Gift of a horse from Sam Geary to a
gin, her father or husband would mean that
he expected her to be sent to his camp, Mrs.
Bessie knew only too well. She knew also
that nothing of the sort was in Hugh’s
mind when he told Warieda that Coon-
ardoo might consider the Thetis filly hers.
Hot color flamed in Hugh’s face as he
glared across at Geary. He was young
enough to detest the grossness of Geary’s
insinuation. A boy with a swag of ideals
Hughie was still, Mrs. Bessie realised, and
Geary sat gloating over the others’ fury
and resentment.
“Warieda said the filly out of Coon-
ardoo’s mare Thetis,” Hugh went on. “And
the mare got fairly knocked up while we
were out. I reck’n”
“Coonardoo’s fairly earned this filly,”
Mrs. Bessie broke in. “I think so, Hughie.”
“Well, I reck’n you treat your gins pretty
well on Wytaliba,” Geary said. “Not long
before you’re treatin’ ’em as well as we do
on Nuniewarra.”
“Aw, shut-up,” Bob muttered.
He smiled at Jessica vaguely, and she
smiled at him, sensing something infinitely
delicate in his feeling for her isolation
among all these strange people.
“Are you going to give me a horse,
Hugh?” ' Jessica asked, in the awkward
silence about her.
Geary spluttered.
“Come up to the yards and choose one
for yourself this aftfcrnoon,” Hugh said.
His glare at Geary held fire. Mrs. Bessie
caught his eye and held it; then her gaze
wavered to Jessica. Hugh understood and
controlled himself. He was sitting at the head
of his table and recognised what was ex-
pected of him.
“I’ll have something to tell you when
we’ve finished dinner, Mr. Geary,” he said,
Jessica’s gaze passed from one to the
c#her of the men as if they were talking
in a language she did not understand. She
glanced at Mrs. Bessie, whose eyes lay on
Sam Geary, cursing him if ever a curse lay
in grey-blue eyes with a clear and steady
stare. Geary, however, looked as if he were
thoroughly enjoying himself. His raw pink
face glowed; his eyes popped and swam
joyously as he sat there teasing Mrs. Bessie
and appreciating Hugh’s discomfiture.
Chitali had a colt in the pound when
Mrs. Bessie and Jessica went up to the
yards after their afternoon rest. A wild
young thing, well-made, big in the bone,
with short back, deep barrelled, he beat
round and round the rails, scarcely visible
for dust.
In the yard behind, Warieda and Mick
were singling the Thetis filly from a score
or so of mares and young horses. Turning
this way and that, the mob surged and
swayed. Over and over again the filly,
with swift cunning, dashed past the gate.
But at last Warieda cut her off; there was
only the open crush-gate to make for.
Wanna slammed the gate on her dancing
quarters, and the filly found herself jambed
in the narrow yard before she knew where
she was.
Geary, Bob and Hugh stood talking, out
from the stockyards, as Mrs. Bessie
and Jessica came rip from the house. Hugh
opened a gate for them, and they went
across to the brushwood shed. Mrs. Bessie
spread the little camp stool she liked to sit
on while she watched the boys and horses
in the yards, and Jessica sat on a log beside
her. ■
Chitali had let the young mare in the
round yard go until she was blown. Tall
and spidery, long legs in blue trousers,
grey-blue shirt tucked into his belt, elastic-
side boots pulled over the ends of his pants
and felt hat tucked under at either side,
he now approached her.
Standing in the centre of the yard, a
long pole in his hand, Chitali stretched it
out and laid it on the back of the young
horse. But away the filly flew as the pole
touched him; Chitali swung round and
round with the pole and the galloping horse.
He rubbed the pole over the horse, up and
down, down and up; then he slipped a halter
on to the end of the pole. As the filly
stood trembling and blowing, Chitali rubbed
the halter over her wet dark back, dropped
it over her head, threw the pole, round which
the rope had been twisted, to the ground,
and held her by a hide rope. Away
the wild thing went again, throwing her-
self about frantically in the crush between
the pound and the big yard, although there
was not room for her to turn in it.
“Yukki!” Coonardoo called, watching her
with the children from the far side of the
big yard. And there was the filly, clamber-
ing and scrambling over the high rails of
the crush! She raced round the outer yard
and was over the six-railed fence like a bird,
away and flying across the plains. Warieda
and Wanna went after her, taking saddled
horses from the fence of the stockyard.
“She’s a bird, not a horse, Coonardoo!”
Mrs. Bessie called.
“Sooner you handle ’em when they’re
wild and gallopin’ the better,” Geary
shouted.
Hugh lit his pipe and pulled on it. He
had only just taken to a pipe. It com-
forted and soothed him to smoke; a pipe
gave him a sense of age and assurance. He
I Continued on page 53.)


SUMMER HILL, SUMMER HILL, SUMMER HILL
Abergeldie Estate.
Abergeldie Estate.
Abergeldie Estate.
The Choicest Subdivision of the Year.
The Choicest Subdivision of the Year.
157 EXCELLENT BUILDING ALLOTMENTS
157 EXCELLENT BUILDING ALLOTMENTS
having frontages to
Old Canterbury Road, Dixson Avenue, Arlington Street, Hugh, Johnson
and Elizabeth Avenues.
ON THE BORDERS OF SOUTH ASHFIELD, HURLSTONE PARK AND DULWICH HILL.
Formerly the Grounds to the Residence of the late Sir Hugh Dixsoh.
This magnificent Subdivision has every facility for the making of a Model Garden Suburb.
The streets have been kerbed, guttered, metalled and tarred.
Electric light, gas, water and sewerage are available.
TERMS: 10 PER CENT. DEPOSIT, BALANCE IN 12 EQUAL QUARTERLY PAYMENTS.
INTEREST 6 PER CENT.
BUILDING COVENANT TO PROTECT BUYERS.
TORRENS TITLE. TORRENS TITLE. TORRENS TITLE.
LITHOGRAPHS NOW AVAILABLE. LITHOGRAPHS NOW AVAILABLE.
AUCTION SALE ON THE GROUND,
SATURDAY, 20th OCTOBER, and on SATURDAY, 27th OCTOBER,
at 3 p.m.
Messrs. MINTER, SIMPSON and CO. are SOLICITORS TO ESTATE.
S. C. CALDERWOOD, SURVEYOR.
LOCAL AGENT: C. H. CRAMMOND, AT THE STATION, PETERSHAM.
RICHARDSON AND WRENCH, Limited, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AUCTIONEERS. (No. 663).
READY TO
o*to
HEIN*
ij «aoe in u.s.a.bv
>" J H El N Z COp
Pittsburgh,pa
Cooked!
Ready to Eat!
HOME late! No matter
Heinz Cooked
Spaghetti is ready to heat
and serve. A delightful blend
of Heinz dry spaghetti, sea-
soned with rich tomato
sauce from Heinz grown
tomatoes and a special
cheese ready cooked to
perfection. Wholesome, nu-
tritious, economical. It fits
into every emergency—for
an unexpected guest, a hot
breakfast, a quick lunch, or
the main dish of a man-
sized meal.
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY
London, Eng. Pittsburgh, Pa. Toronto, Cans
me of the
57
Varieties
HEINZ
COOKED
SPAGHETTI
1497
If any illustration in The Buixetin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
QUEENSLAND OPPORTUNITIES.
THE Queensland Primary Producers’ Co-operative Association, Limited (an organisation owned
exclusively by Primary Producers and conducting the largest business in Pastoral Products
in Queensland), invites inquiries from Southern investors interested in Pastoral Propositions
—either sheep or cattle. First-class sheep properties, with long leases, are available on a basis of
approximately £2/12/0 to £2/17/6 per head FULLY STOCKED.
The Association has Branches at Rockhampton, Longreach and Charleville under the manage-
ment of men possessing a wide Pastoral Experience of a practical nature.
Head Office: Commercial Union Buildings, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address:
"PRIMARIES”—Brisbane, Rockhampton, Longreach and Charleville.
Tambo Oil Corporation,
Limited.
Midway Roma and Longreach. Located
Walloon Belt. Best Geologist’s report.
Extract therefrom. “During the whole of
the baling the Oil show gradually in-
creased.” “I have nowhere seen better
oil indications in a shallow bore in this
State.” Percussion Boring Plant has been
purchased. Capital £50,000 in shares of
£1 each, payable 2/6 per share on appli-
cation, 2/6 per share on allotment,
balance 2/6 per share, monthly calls. For
particulars and shares apply
V. F. HOLMSEN, Share Broker,
Old Town Hall, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Tenders.
TENDERS ARE INVITED
for purchase of the business of THE RE-
FIDEX PATENT and COPYRIGHT MAP-
PING PROPRIETARY, carried on by Dun-
can Ward, Draftsman, at 40 Charlotte Street,
Brisbane, comprising:—
Australian Patent REFIDEX SYSTEM
of ready reference to places on maps and
the like.
Copyright REFIDEX DIRECTORY
MAPS within the Greater Brisbane area.
Stock of approximately 900 REFIDEX
DIRECTORY Greater Brisbane with
Map Drawings, Process Blocks, Draw-
ing Tables, Instruments and Informa-
tion for revision purposes.
Wall Map Brisbane and Suburbs (in
two sections) compiled for Refidex Sys-
tem.
Wall Map of Queensland (in two sec-
tions) showing all Queensland Stock
Routes.
Australian Patent for improved con-
struction of Map Books.
The Refidex Patent can be applied to !
Maps of all parts of the Commonwealth.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily j
accepted.
Tenders close 15th October, 1928.
For further particulars and inspection of !
Maps, Patents and Copyrights, etc., apply to |
QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES, LIMITED,
Executors Estate late Duncan Ward,
395 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Beyond an H.M. VPortable
fa.
bit
tare
oa
Specialising in H.M.V Portables
til cash or terms arranged
The TALKERIES
477Q.V Buildings /Opposite Lowest
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND.
THE WEEKLY TIMES
has always been
THE GREAT FARMERS’ PAPER.
YOU GET FREE:—
Legal advice, Doctor's advice,
Veterinary advice, and
answers to all farming questions.
New South Wales edition available on
and after September 15.
Price 4d.
Offices: 133 Pitt St., Sydney.
62 Flinders St., Melbourne.
TO
v y
?y
m
in
su^
Summer and ICE are synonymous
with ElectrlCE, the modern electric
refrigerator.
ElectrlCE is sold at an exceptionally
moderate figure and does away altogether
with the iceman and the mess and bother
associated with melting ice.
Bottled drinks are always cool and tempt-
ing, whilst inviting little salads and desserts
maintain their frosty freshness for days at
a time.
There’s no trouble with ElectrlCE, no
adjusting or even oiling—-it looks after
itself.
We have prepared a beautifully printed
48-page Recipe Book, containing 200
recipes for seasonable dishes and drinks.
This little book will be sent to you free
on request.
But why not call for one yourself and,
without obligation, see an ElectrlCE work-
ing and—our model Electric Kitchen?
PRICE, FROM £75.
PORCELAIN LINED THROUGHOUT.
See ElectrlCE before purchasing.
Manufacturers’ Products Pty., Ltd.,
137 Clarence Street (top of Barrack Street, nearG.P.O.),
Sydney.
’Phone 8W1328.
GENERAL AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS.
Cej CsD
n
B—U
"Freeze
with ease.”
fs
Manufactured by
EMMCO


LYMAN
df
SIGHTS
for practically
every gun made
Price £3/2/6
More shooting at Less Cost.
Reloading your own ammu-
nition made easy with Ideal
Tools, standard for 35 years.
IDEAL Reloading Tools turn out accurate shooting
ammunition. No special skill required. See de-
scription of tools and accessories in Ideal Hand-
book, the most complete treatise on reloading.
Send 2/6 for copy, or Free Folder.
No. 1
Lubricator
and Sizer
for Bullets.
ilsigßE6«B@j
Ideal Lubricant made especi-
ally for greasing bullets.
Price per stick, 1/6.
For prompt rephjj send your inquiries for literature to our
exclusive representatives;
ASHER SMITH, LTD.,
P.O. Box 966GG, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE LYMAN GUN SIGHT CORP.,
West Street, Middlefield, Conn., U.S.A.
SHELL RESIZING C,
H TO OL
Best for resizing expanded shells
entire length. Price 25/- each.
r IDEAL N 34
Hand Reloaders No. 4 and No. 6.
No. 4 casts Standard lead bullet. For
C.F. Cartridges. Reloads .25-20, .32-
20, .38 S. & W. Special, .44-40, .38-
40, etc. Price 32/6 each. No. 6 for
C.F. Cartridges such as .25-35, .30-30,
.32-40, etc. Casts Standard bullets,
{’rice 37/6 each.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Setting's.
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
STRENGTH for the problems of each day;
sweet, sound sleep at night; the liking
for play, and the zest for playing —in short,
Sparkling Health from this new type of
Yeast, o o •
If you do not enjoy perfect health —try Cream of Yeast just
once! The test is simple; the proof is quick and unmistakable.
See, when you take Cream of Yeast, a brighter outlook; a
happier frame of mind. Things no longer “get on your nerves,
headaches have ceased, appetite and digestion have improved;
a host of worrying little troubles have disappeared.
NEW-DAY WAY TO BETTER HEALTH!
Cream of Yeast is a modern remedy for the needs of modern
men and women. It incorporates the proven virtues of con-
centrated yeast, in combination with other recognised medicinal
agents, in such a way as to increase the value of the yeast about
75 per cent. Cream of Yeast is quite unlike ordinary or
brewers’ yeast —it will give results that plain yeast cannot give.
Cream of Yeast is a pick-me-up, a tonic, and an unusually
quick means for “run-down” men and women to get into the
pink of condition again. The proof is easy —try Cream of
Yeast just once. But be very sure you get genuine
Cream of Yeast. Make no mistake in the name.
r
ALL CHEMISTS : 24 TABLETS, l/tl. 4B TABLET o.
125 TABLETS. S/9
had said his few words to Sam Geary and
felt better for them.
“See here, Mr. Geary”—Hugh had not
beaten about the bush at all —“I’ll thank
you never to speak again at my mother’s
table, and before a girl, as you did to-day.”
“What are you givin’ us, Youie?” Geary
jeered. “Have I got to mind my p’s
and q’s when I open me mouth on Wytaliba
these days?”
“Too right you have,” Hugh assented.
“You’re one of these God-damned young
heroes —don’t think you’re goin’ to have
any truck with gins, I suppose?”
“I’m goin’ to many white and stick
white,” Hugh said, obstinate lines settling
on either side of his mouth.
Geary laughed. “Oh you are, are you?
What do you think of that, Bob? Well,
I’ll bet you anew saddle you’ll make a
friend of a gin before a twelve-month’s out
if ever you’re in this country on your own.”
From the grey fringe of the mulga
Warieda and Mick had turned the filly and
were bringing her the yards.
Jessica had left her log by the fence
and climbed to the top rail of the stock-
yard to watch them. Hugh went to stand
near her. Through Jessica he intended to
keep faith with himself. Beside her he felt
safe from Geary’s taunts. “I won’t, no
matter what happens,” he swore to himself,
disturbed and irritated.
Slowly, carefully, with infinite patience
and perseverance, in the round yard Chitali
had imposed a bridle on the colt he was
breaking. Crupper and saddle were in posi-
tion; he had only to catch the loose end
of a girth and fasten it into the buckle.
Again and again the colt, moving restlessly,
shifted the saddle, bucked it off. But at
last Chitali had fastened the girth and sur-
cingle. He crawled over the horse. Wanna
opened the gate. Horse and rider dashed
into the big yard. Up and down the
colt went, slewing, rooting, pig-jumping,
while Chitali, sitting back, grinned compla-
cently. Anticipating every move, every
swerve and dive, he stuck there until the
horse stood in his traces.
“How do you like it?” Hugh asked
Jessica.
“Oh, it’s fascinating, isn’t it, Hugh?” she
cried breathlessly. “But I’m scared to
death. Are you sure he won’t get hurt?”
“Chitali?” Hugh laughed. “This is child’s
play to him. He’s broken more horses than
any man on Wytaliba; but Warieda’s better
than he is, really. How would you like
this horse?”
“I’d love him!” Jessica gasped. “But
I’d never dare to ride him.”
“He’s called Nessus,” Hugh said, “and
he’s yours. Chitali’ll handle him until he’s
fit for you to ride. We brought in old
Hera yesterday. Coonardoo says she’s as
good as gold yet, and can be trusted to
behave herself. What about going for a
ride to-morrow?”
“Oh Hugh”—Jessica hesitated—-“l’d love
to! But you know I’m terrified of your
horses up here!”
“You’ll soon get over that,” Hugh replied,
watching Chitali through the rails. “You
got him where you want him now, Chitali,”
he called. “Of course, we ought to mouth
’em a bit first,” he added to Jessica. “Let
a young horse stand with roller and ticklers
for a day or so before he’s ridden. The
boys are just showing you what they can
do.”
Chitali dug heels into the colt’s side, let
him play about and kick and screw till he
was tired, then rode him into the yard and
let him go there to chew over his bit.
Taking a pipe from his belt, Chitali lit-up
and swung over towards the round yard, into
which Warieda had turned the Thetis filly.
Pressed against the fence near the killing-
yard and the gallows, Coonardoo, too, was
waiting to see Warieda handle the bright
bhy filly with jetty mane, tail and socks.
The boys had told her that Hugh had said
the Thetis cooboo was to be hers. In her
dark blue gina-gina, eyes wide and radiant,
Coonardoo watched the filly bend nearly
double as she raced round the pound, beat-
ing the earth into a haze. Twice she
tried to climb the fence; the third time,
scrambling and clambering, over she went,
alighting on the far side; but the boys had
her before she could fly the fence of the
outer yard, and turned her back into the
crush and the pound again. How everybody
and exclaimed! It had been done
before, but not many horses contrived to
scale the high rails of Wytaliba pound.
In the centre of the yard Warieda stood
watching as the filly dashed round and
round; becoming giddy, she fell in the dust,
but picked herself up and went on again.
Gradually, however, her pace slackened. As
if she had got used to sight of the man
standing there in his blue trousers, striped
shirt and old grey felt hat, the little mare
stood off from him, blowing and snorting,
dripping sweat, wild-eyed and apprehensive.
Warieda held himself quite still, waiting
and watching her. He spoke quietly, moved
towards her. The filly shied and fled from
him; and again and again Warieda went
through the same movements, uttered the
same word.
At last, arresting, magnetic, with a greet-
ing like a brumby-boss, his head thrown
back and eyes challenging the wild bright
eves before him, his own as wild and bright,
Warieda went up to the horse, his arm—
a dark, sinewy arm that was like the branch-
of a tree—stretched out before him.
Imperious, irresistible, he approached the
wild thing; something of the swaggering of
a triumphant lover in his attitude. Hand
communicated to brain the spell of the man
in language of the flesh, an old forgotten
flow of instincts. Warieda was nearer to
the horse than any of the white men about
him: that was perhaps the secret of his
power.
Warieda’s hand reached the forehead
under the forelock of silky black hair. The
filly quivered and broke away, but came up
again when Warieda held out his arm with
thin fine fingers stretched. Talking quietly,
he moved closer to the horse. Gently, every
gesture slow, restrained, he rubbed her
between the eyes, under the forelock, along
the nose. The little mare snuffled the dark
fine hand, so caressive and reassuring, sleek-
ing and rubbing her. It passed over and
over her thick-haired pelt, which had known
no touch but the wind’s or a leafy branch
on the wild hills.
With her sensitive nose the filly sniffed
Warieda; nostrils, flaring scarlet butterflies,
went over the man; her lower lip quivered.
And Warieda talked murmurously.
“Wiah! Wiah! Menoo, yienda Thetis coo-
boo?”
Rails of the stockyard were hard and dark
against the light blue fall of the sky as
Warieda stood there talking to the horse,
caressing and rubbing her, while she quiv-
ered to him, her tail stuck out, the long
tail of a wild two-year-old.
“It’s a miracle,” Sam Geary said. “I’ve
never seen anything like Warieda’s horse-
breakin’ in all me born days, and I’ve seen
Jim Penny and some of the best of them.”
“Warieda was Jim’s boy for years,” Mrs.
Bessie said; “he learnt all he knows of
horse-breaking from Jim.”
The filly and Warieda stood caressing,
embraced. He put his arm over her head;
she seemed content to stand smelling him.
“If anybody told me that could happen
to a horse that was jumpin’ the stockyard
rails half an hour ago I’d have said he
was a liar,” Sam remarked cheerfully.
After the bridle was on, carefully,
steadily, Warieda lowered a saddle across
the mare’s back. She shivered and shied
the saddle off; fled, but returned as Warieda
called. Again and again she threw the
saddle, and again and again, with infinite
patience, Warieda went over each gesture
and movement, fondling and rubbing her,
until the saddle sat forgotten on her back.
Then, catching the swinging end of the girth
with a piece of hooked wire lying on the
ground, and holding the filly by one ear, he
clipped the girth and then adjusted the
crupper. The filly jumped and kicked.
Warieda fell in order to miss her swift-
flung heels as she dashed bucking and root-
ing around the pound.
“She’ll deal you a full hand, Warieda,”
Hugh exclaimed.
Warieda only smiled.
“A Thetis filly all right, eh, Coonardoo?”
Mrs. Bessie called.
Coonardoo smiled to her, the slow,
equable smile of her pride and happiness.
“Thetis was by Ironstone. You remember
the big bay Ted got off Britte-Britte?” Mrs.
Bessie said to Geary.
“Remember?” Geary growled. “Didn’t
Ted lend him to me once, the brute! He’d
go for a bit and start buckin’ again.”
“Had a horse once bucked for a mile,”
Bob said. “He’d begin with a flyin’ root
and a couple of high bucks, and go on
buckin’ and rootin’ in a circle. Knocked
himself up buckin’. It was when I was on
Illigoogee. Did in his fetlock and had to
be left out on the run.”
“Go on!” Hugh’s eyes were on the yard
where Warieda had the Thetis filly against
the fence to chew over her bit and get used
to the feeling of girth and crupper before
he rode her.
Nobody believed Bob’s yarn, or took
much notice of it. It passed for one of
Bob’s lies and fell flat. He ■ looked apolo-
getically towards Jessica and seemed to
shrink a little. He knew he was lying and
that everybody else knew he was lying.
But Jessica—he hoped that she did not
think so. It was for her he had told the
story—to loom a little in her eyes.
Mrs. Bessie got up, shaking her white
skirt, folded up the stool she had been sit-
ting on while she watched the horses and
men through the rails.
“Well.” she said definitely, “I’d sooner
watch Warieda horse-breaking than do any-
thing else I know.”
CHAPTER VIII.
It was washing day and the gins were
sitting beside washtubs on the shady side of
the verandah, rubbing dirty clothes with
coarse station-made soap on! which the
caustic soda had rimed.
They rubbed and slapped the trousers and
shirts, handkerchiefs, sheets, towels and
tablecloths, slowly, lazily, talking to-
gether, looking out over the plains, seeing
all that was going on at the sheds and at
the stockyard nearly half a mile away,
where the boys were still handling and
breaking jmung horses.
Meenie, Bandogera, Bardi and Coonar-
doo, they were all there. Coonardoo’s
laughter could be heard every now and
then, a ripple and throwing out of merry
little sounds. Bardi laughed, too, but
slowly, with a flat, low gurgling. Only Coon-
ardoo’s laughter danced and sang.
Meenie looked across at Coonardoo with
eyes which spoke for her, and Coonardoo’s
eyes made talk with Meenie’s, the affection
and understanding between them deep and
placid. Only old Bandogera, the wild tur-
key, did not smile; she went on pounding
and thrashing dirt from the clothes as if it
were a solemn and awful work she was
engaged in. Her thin brown stalks of fin-
gers writhed and twisted among men’s gar-
ments, blue and buff trousers and shirts,
very greasy and stiff with dust, which would
not come clean without a tussle. Meenie
(Continued on page 58.)


sd
"After all
there’s only
ONE 'Australia’ ”
Every detail of service and conven-
ience is anticipated in this great hotel
with the world-famous name. Write
for beautifully illustrated folder if you
are thinking of coming to Sydney.
Telegraphic, Wireless and Cable Address:
"Austraotel, Sydney.”
(Si*
A
fs
(Capital Paid-up, £422,100)
The Hotel
of the Commonwealth,
Sydney.
FOR PICNICS, LUNCHES & SUPPERS
Kraft Cheese is the clean and whole-
some cheese that cuts so easily into
smooth, golden slices for sandwiches.
IT IS MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Sold by weight or
in %lb. cartons
by all grocers and
storekeepers.
PvfJ
KKj
Made in Australia by
Kraft Walker Cheese
Co. Ply., Ltd., at
Riverside Avenue, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.
Three-Four Time.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD TELLS A RIPPLING TALE OF THE WALTZ THAT
MISS ADAIR DIDN’T WRITE.
FRANK PORTER, sitting in the supper-
room of the Caravanserai, laughed with
Whaley over the ways of the intense
musicians whom Porter irreverently de-
scribed as “noise merchants.”
A little man, with the set face of a bad
actor pretending to be a good tragedian, sat
at the piano and, apparently to the delight
of the audience of sixty or so, played.
“Formless,” said Whaley. “These high-
brows don’t know a tune.”
“ ‘Tune,’ ” replied Porter, “is blasphemy.
If you listen with something approaching in-
telligence you shall hear last night’s lobster
mayonnaise weeping for the sea it knew
when it was a young and innocent crayfish,
before it was seduced to live in the wicked
world by a man with whiskers and a lobster-
pot.”
“I know,” said Whaley. “The funda-
mental bass is telling of the lobster’s school-
days where the eyeless fish and the Pacific
Cable live in the ultimate slime. And the
contrapuntal discords signify sharks.”
“Naughty noise merchants! A sense of
humor would save them, and they’d cut their
hair and play tunes. The funniest tiling I
ever heard was fifty Conservatorium girls
singing to a fat prima-donna on the Mel-
bourne express. She was big enough for a
garden suburb, and they sang solemnly,
‘Amaryllis, Adieu.’ Who’s the stout lady
worshipping the noise merchant at the
piano ?”
“Miss Adair! Musical would-be, composes
things that never get anywhere, and she’s
rich enough to make people believe in her.
She”
“Ssssh! The disturbance is ended and the
disturber is about to lecture ion—let’s see!
‘Color in Music.’ What’s his name? Gron-
ette.... The little groan, I suppose.”
“If it means that they’ve underestimated
his size”
“And there’s the best of all of ’em talking
to Miss Adair.”
“Who’s he?”
“De Tuba. He runs three string bands.
Made a fortune playing dance music.”
The tragic man shook his mane and
pushed back his rebellious hair. He re-
sponded with a funereal and deprecatory
gesture fio the applause of welcome, and
spoke of the most iuexact of all the arts as
if he were proving the most acceptable
theories in the commonly known ; of physics,
of vibrations and their transmutations, and
of the translation of sound in color.
“They—er—oome up,” said he, “like the
Aurora Australis. They build themselves
into color like a sunset in Egypt, or, as I
am credibly informed, on the salt-lakes of
Central Australia. A Bach fugue, for
instance, is rugged but symmetrical; the
colors are of a Turner sunset or of a Dutch
interior by Rembrandt. When the world is
fully educated all people hearing music shall
sec this coloration, now visible only to those
who have acquired a supreme consciousness
of vibration.”
“That’s us,” said Porter.
“No fear,” replied Whaley. “We are the
unregenerate, color-blind, tone-deaf, vibra-
tion-less.”
“All right, old man, we’re dead —anything
to please.”
But they were not to escape. De Tuba,
plump and round, his large, oval, olive-
skinned face, with its wisps of hair on the
upper-lip looking like a moustached duck-
egg, caught Porter at the door and insisted
on introducing him to Miss Adair.
“Miss Adair —the composer—you must
really meet my friend Frank Piortcr. He
manages all the great musicians’ tours —
Bobberlik, the ’cellist, Nareda’s concert tour
—you’ll remember, Miss Adair. Mr. Porter
has managed only the best. Miss Adair com-
poses very much, Mr. Porter.”
Miss Adair carried her label, “Gusher.”
and was true to it. Her round fair face
smiled and her blue eyes of a doll smiled
and she was ready and willing to be friends
with anything that was male and in a lesser
degree with any woman. Her habit of gush-
ing was 'partly self-consciousness trying to
avoid criticism, and she looked appealingly
at Frank Porter with the air of one pre-
pared for death, but deprecating violence.
“Oh. Mr. Porter! I’m so glad we’ve met.
I’ve been simply dying to meet you for
months and months and months. Signor de
Chuba was telling me you must manage my
composers’ concert.”
“Composers’ concert! Really, I”
“Miss Adair,” said De Tuba, “is a com-
poser ; not these fugues and symphonies,
but good dance-music —popular works;
dreamy waltzes.”
“Yes,” said Miss Adair eagerly, “beauty
and love and regret—you know, Mr.
Whaley? It is Mr. Whaley? Of course! I
met you at the Artists’ show. .. . You know
the dance I mean. Mr. Whaley?”
Whaley stroked his dark-reddish beard and
grinned his charming old grin that was in
itself a passport.
“I know, Miss Adair —Sweet Dreamland
E’aces and summer nights and lost loves and
meet again in Heaven.”
“Just that. Most people love sentiment
with their dance-music —it makes flirtation
—er —piquant. And I do want Mr. Porter
to manage my composers’ concert. Nothing
as great as we’ve heard to-night, of course.
Just human, you know. When will my new
waltz be ready, Mr. de Chuba?”
“Eh! I heg your pardon. Miss Adair
means when will the scoring be finished, Mr.
Porter.”
“Yes, the scoring,” said Miss Adair, flush-
ing painfully.
“In about a week —ready for your com-
posers’ concert.”
“I can’t manage it,” said Frank Porter;
“but I’ll give you any advice I can.”
“And you’ll come to my composers’ and
artists’ dance? And Mr. Whaley, t 00....
Oh, you’re very good to me! Good-bye!
Good-bye!”
She and De Tuba left them hurriedly,
apparently in avoidance of a dark little man.
olive-skinned like De Tuba, but with mou-
staches convoluted lightly like the horns of
a ram or the flowers of a snail plant.
“Mistair Portair and Mistair \V hale ! Ah !
to meet you fine!”
“Why, it’s Bartolo ! Where were you hid-
ing, Bart?”
“Behine the piano,” replied the violinist.
“Ashamed of the company?”
“No—not ashame. Annoy.”
“Why, who’s been annoying our little Bar
tolo?”
“That man who run away when I come
to you—De Tuba. The big fraud. The
great big large skite.”
ANY PORT IN A'STORM.
WIFIE (making an unexpected appearance): “Oh, ‘Darling Little Doll’—who are you
writing that letter to?”
HUSBAND: “It’s perfectly all right, pet. You see — er —the wife of a friend of mine is
away in the country and he can’t think of anything nice to say.”
“Why, what’s poor old De Tuba done to
you ?”
“You come, I tell you. Come to the
drink, good frien’s —then I tell you of De
Tuba.... You know De Tuba call him-
self musician ! Aaah ! He of music nothing
know —-nothing! He start street band ; then
more street band. Then he have string
orchestra for dance; then more. Make the
poor prisoner of every bob. Sock the monna
down south. Pay nobody if he can help it;
pay what he must; so small; so mean. Cry
when he part with monna. Make the monna
always. Play at the dance of Stock-Brokers.
Get the Stock Exchange tip. Make the
monna. Day at dance of bookmakers. Get
the good odd on the accelerated horse. Win
the bet. Make the monna. Sempre make
the monna!”
“Not envious are you, Bart? Don’t get
like that.”
“Not envy. What I care of monna? But
when this greedy Ebraio of Genova steal
my monna. shall I not be annoy?”
“Didn’t he pay you for playing?”
“For worse than play fiddle he not pay
me. I tell you. You see the fat woman
he go wisout? No! No! he not go wisout
—the fat woman he go out wis! The big
blue eye. Big like dessertspoon.”
“Miss Adair.”
“Ecco —so is ! She is composere—com-
posere of music, eh? Not!”
“Why, she just invited us to hear her
compositions played.”
“And who compose them? I, Bartolo —I
compose them!”
“You !”
“Tranquille! Tranquille! She is troppo-
ricco. Oh, very, very rich. She wish to have
reputation for compose music. Ah! Pover-
ino! She cannot compose two bar of music.
She cannot compose the first two bar of
‘Abey, My Boy’!”
“God bless her for that!”
“She can compose her face with the bloom
of peach—that is all she can compose. But
she wish for people to say, ‘Ah! Lady—how
beautiful you music!’ She have the great
monna; she go to De Tuba.”
“I see—and pays him to compose for her?”
“Ker-ker-ker! Signore! No. De Tuba
cannot compose as more as the lady. She
give him the hundred pound to compose the
waltz. He cannot. Pie come to me; offer
me twenty-fife pound compose the waltz.
When he not pay me I find she pay him
hundred pound. Ladroni! —brig anti! All
his family is thief.”
“Did you compose the waltz? She asked
him for it to-day and lie told her it was
being orchestrated.”
“Yes, I compose the waltz; I do the
orchestration. I have both. No good to
me, and he know that. He will give me
ten pound, and I am leader of his dance-
band, and he tell me I am to play it next
week. Shall I play the waltz of the rich lady
composed by De Tuba by myself? No, I
shall not!”
“For the sake of the gaiety of nations,
don’t burn it,” said Whaley. “I’ll tell you
bow to get that twenty pounds.”
“You shall? From De Tuba? Shall I
get him from the furnace of Vesuvio? No,
no! I cannot get the monna of De Tuba,
but I shall give him the shame.”
“That’s it, get the money by giving him
the shame. Now, listen! It’s a good job
to put up on him, Frank, and that’s why
we’ll go to that composers’ dance. Listen,
Bartolo; you shall have your money and
revenge.”
i’fi # sjc
De Tuba, altogether beautiful in funereal
clothes of the evening, tapped on his con-
ductor’s desk with that baton whose use
gave him exploitation of the real merchants
of noise. He tapped to call the attention,
not of the band, but of the invited guests—
Miss Adair, as hostess, the central figure of
the semi-circle they formed; Miss Adair,
ready to blush when her honors arrived.
“Ladies and gentlemen,” said De Tuba,
and pursed his mouth for a full minute so
that he looked more like a moustached-egg
than before, “we are now to play the great
waltz, ‘Wattle Blooms of Yesterday,’ for the
first time in the world. This_ waltz is. all
new; all fresh; and all beautiful. It is a
great piece of music by a great composer
and musician—our hostess, Miss Adair.
In that moment of applause anticipatory
of the great work, Bartolo whispered to the
nearest player and his hand signalled the
others. De Tuba tapped imperiously on his
empty desk again; empty because he con-
ducted the music he couldn’t read much better
than if the score had been before him.
Fiddles to chin, ’cellist seated, double-bass
player standing, wood-wind, French horn —
the orchestra began the great waltz.
A moment of pleased surprise; then half-
incredulous recognition ; then laughter as the
orchestra floated majestically into the
luckiest dance music ever written —the im-
mortal waltz of Strauss. A girl laughed,
and another said, “Why, it’s ‘The Blue’
and then stopped afraid, for De Tuba, glar-
ing at Bartolo, cried out in rage, “Stop!
Stop! Are you mad?.... You, Bartolo,
where is the music of the new waltz?”
“I think I pack up this by the mistake,”
replied Bartolo equably. “We stop a bit. I
send for it —perhaps.”
“Ladies and gentlemen,” said De Tuba,
“an unfortunate mistake. I will make it
right, immediately. Come with me, Bartolo :
you are responsible as librarian of the band. '
Bartolo went with him; the band grinned
to the guests and the audience smiled in
return. De Tuba apparently reassured the
hostess-composer and he and Bartolo left the
ballroom. In Miss Adair’s library Bartolo
and De Tuba came to an understanding;
and De Tuba went back with the orchestral
parts of the new score.
* # * *
Frank Porter and Whaley, searching for
Bartolo, found him in the supper-room. A
bottle of champagne half empty was at Bar-
tolo’s right hand; the half of a chicken was
on his plate. Bartolo’s mouth was full of
ham. He was doing himself well.
“Ah! Amici!” cried Bartolo. “Come wis
me for the drink of the wine. Ah ! Ah! I
have take you ad-vice, an’ De Tuba have
cough up the monna.”
“How did he take it?”
“Oh, veree cruel, veree cruel! He say
‘Porco! you have destroy me wis the lady:
an’ I say, ‘Porco you ! Bestia! Animale!
You get one hundred pound from the lady
to compose the waltz. Ido the work! Then
you give me the righta cross for the twentv-
fife pound. Then I give you the double-
cross with the “8100 Danoobay.” I have tin'
score of my waltz —you get it for thirty
pound or I tell the fat lady, an’ all the
pipple.’”
“How did he take that?”
“He do not take it. He fly from it! He
repulse it—sso! But he come back to it. He
must. It is ruin if he do not. If he cannot
find the waltz to-day then is he distrusted —
absolutemente.”
“And he paid?”
“He give me the slieck for the bank —
thirty pound. Then I say I must have the
bottle wine and the slacken before I play.
So, my frien’, I eat! I drink! I have the
monna. You are good man, Mr. Whale, that
you think of the ‘Bloo Danoobay’ waltz by
Mees Adair-Strauss. Now drink wis me, an’
when I finish the bottle wine, I play the
great new waltz, ‘The Wattles of Old Lost
Springtimes,’ compose by Signorina Bartolo
De Tuba Adair. Come! The bottle wine.”
Twenty minutes later the composer by
proxy thrilled to the pleasant wailing of
“Wattle Blooms of Yesterday,” and a hund-
red and sixty feet danced to it, Bartolo with
all the joy of the artist playing the leading
violin with his own knowledge of its. author-
ship to give him an added appreciation, and
Strauss and the immortal “Blue Danube” an
unpleasant memory fading before delight
in the new.
In Spring.
The apple-trees are filled with bloom:
The sheep are moving through the grass;
The fruit is ripening in the womb
Of days that now to summer pass;
And on the hills the white goats go
With even feet, and, like a song,
The voice of waters as they flow
Is in my ears the whole day long.
Now in the fields the green ear yellows;
The blossoms fall before the leaves,
And soon will come those rosy fellows,
The apples; soon the gathered sheaves;
And there will be the new. rich honey,
And plenty for a man and mouse,
And more to sell for golden money.
And there’ll be love within the house.
In summer when the barns are full,
And lambs are dancing in the sun,
And mated is the great red bull,
And all the heavy work is done;
Then I'll be going up along
To the white church at Kinlaliee,
And I will sing the greatest song.
When my wife’s coming home with me.
S.A.
D. P. McGUIRE.


A wonderful
body builder
•:
is always
fresh & pure
A *
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
■ Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offi es at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwuila Chambers, Castiereagh Street, SYDNEY.
The London and
North-Eastern Railway
of England and Scotland
Serves
Beautiful Cathedral Cities,
Seaside Resorts, Dales & Moors,
Inland Spas, Castles, Abbeys.
THE EAST COAST ROUTE
(Track of the “'Plying- Scotsman”) is the
Shortest and Quickest between
London and Scotland.
Illustrated Booklets describing Resorts on the
L.N.E.R. will be gladly supplied on applica-
tion to Messrs BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches; or
in London at the L.N.E.R. West End Offices,
71 Regent Street, and 59 Piccadilly, W.l.
Agents throughout New Zealand:
J. A. REDPATH & SONS, LTD.
TOUR ENGLAND & SCOTLAND
by L.N.E.R.
Nancy.
HERE J. H. M. ABBOTT TELLS A FASCINATING STORY OF THE GOLDEN
WOMAN OF THE FIRST FLEET.
ANY account of Mrs. Nancy Devine —the
Golden Woman, as she afterwards be-
came known in Sydney—resolves itself
primarily into a description of the flotation
of the first Wild Cat in the country—the first
goldmine without any gold in it to be ex-
ploited on this continent.
Jamesey Daly sat beneath a tree at the
edge of the forest on the right bank of the
Tank Stream, and gazed out across the blue
inlet of Sydney Cove towards the forest-clad
heights of Port Jackson’s northern shore.
Somewhere above the present intersection of
Bridge and Pitt streets, on the left-hand side
as you go south, would be the place, but
if you could locate it now you would not
see much of what he and his companion
looked upon that sunny Sunday afternoon in
1788.
You would not see the harbor at all, for
one thing, and Mr. Daly had an uninter-
rupted view of it. H.M.S. Sirius was moored
in the mouth of the Cove; and, careened on
its bilge against the bay’s eastern side, lay
another vessel of the First Fleet. Near the
shore, between the mouth of the stream and
the latter craft, the flag of England flapped
idly on its staff beside tlie Governor’s canvas
cottage, and scattered about the stump-stud-
ded landscape were all the queer little edi-
fices of the new settlement—tlie tents of
the officers and marines, the convicts’ huts,
and the storehouses of the Commissariat.
Captain John Hunter has left a sketch of
it, which he made about this time, and
although it is not a brilliantly artistic pro-
duction it is eloquent enough of the curious
little place Sydney was in the second six
months of its existence.
As Mr. Daly sat there, clad in the rough
slops of a convict, talking to a comely young
woman who was also prison-clothed, a bugle-
call rang out from near the flagstaff, wailing
and sobbing across the valley, and echoing
from the distant hillsides over the water.
“Be hivens,” he said, “ ’tis th’ call for
ord’ly sergeants. ’Tis now they do be plau-
nin’ an’ schamiu’ how for to worruk us on
th’ morry. Bad luck to thim, thin! But
we’ll not be a-worrukin’ long now, Nancy me
girl.”
The woman looked up at him from where
she sat a little way down the slope of the hill.
“Ye think ye’ll carry it off, Jamesey?” she
said. “Ye think they’ll let ye take me, too?”
“Sure, thin, I do that. Did I not tell
Major Grose I’d say nought widout th’ Gov’-
nor let me go free to England in th’ Goulden
Grove, takin’ ye wid me, Nancy Travers?
An’ more, I says to tli’ ould divil ’tis a sum
o’ money I’d be after thankin’ him for, be-
sides. But I tells him ’twas mesilf’d wait
till Gov’nor Phillip come back—him bein’
away to th’ nor’ard —afore I’d tell where
th’ gouldmine was. Th’ rage of him!
‘Lookye, Daly,’ he says, ‘ye’ll tell us now,
since you’ve spoke so much—else I’ll flog th’
insides out o’ ye!’ An’ lie mint it, too, th’
ould villain. I seen it in’s eye.”
“An’ what says ye to that, Jamesey?”
“Faith, I’d to pretind for to be agreeable
—for to save th’ skin o’ me back. I’ve not
been flogged, an’ I’m not wishful for to bt>.
So I up an’ tells ould Grose I’d be willin’
for to go wid an officer, an’ point out th’
place to him, an’ we’re to go to-morry marn-
in’.”
“But what’ll ye do about it, Jamesey?
There ain’t no sich a place, as well I knows.
Ye told me so y’self.”
Mr. Daly laughed and winked. The girl
asked another question.
“An’ who’s the officer?”
“ ’Tis Cap’n Campbell—an’ he’s an aisy
mahn. I’ll diddle him complately. You lave
it to me, Nancy darlint.”
If Mr. Daly had enriched the world with
his memoirs—-which he didn’t —it would have
been interesting to have heard from him the
whole adventure, and how on earth he ex-
pected it to serve his own ends. Since we
cannot have his version, here is that of
Captain Hunter. He is quoted from the point
of the story reached in the communings of
Mr. Daly and Nancy Travers:—
Accordingly, an officer with a corporal and two or
three private soldiers were sent with him; he landed
where he said the walk would be but short, and they
entered the wood on the way to the mine; soon
after they got among the bushes he applied for
permission to go on one side upon some necessary.
occasion, which was granted him; the officer con-
tinued there some hours without seeing the discoverer
again, who immediately on getting out of his sight
had pushed off for the camp by land, for he knew
the road very well.
The convict arrived in camp pretty early in the
afternoon, and informed the Lieutenant-Governor that
he had left the officer who went down with him in
full possession of the goldmine; he then got a few
things out of his own tent and disappeared; the
party, after waiting for some hours, hooping and
searching through the woods for the cheat, left
their stations and marched round to the camp, where
they arrived at dusk.
The want of provisions soon brought him from
his concealment, and a severe punishment was the
necessary consequence of this imposition; however,
he still gave out that he had made the discovery
which he had before mentioned, and that his reasons
for quitting the officer who went with him was, that
he thought, if he gave the information to the
Governor himself, he would certainly get what he
had asked.
When the Governor returned another officer was
sent with him —this was Lieutenant George Johnston.
This officer informed him that he would shoot if
he attempted to run from him; for which purpose
he showed him that he was loading his gun with
ball. Thin so terrified the cheat that he acknowledged
he knew of no goldmine. He confessed that he had
filed down part of a yellow metal buckle, and had
mixed with it some gold filed oii a guinea, all which
had been blended with some earth, and made hard.
The man who tried the ore was bred a silversmith,
and upon separating the different parts he discovered
that it contained a small quantity of gold; the
inventor was, of course, well punished for his trick.
The unfortunate promoter was flogged in
the thorough fashion of those days. And when
he had sufficiently recovered they painted a
large “R” upon the back of his jacket, so
that the fact that he was a rogue might be
apparent to all men.
The end of Mr. James Daly was indeed
melancholy. Colonel Collins —at that time
Judge Advocate —thus records it: —
December. —James Daly, the convict who in
August pretended to discover an inexhaustible source
of wealth, and was punished for his imposition, was
observed from that time to neglect his labor, and
to loiter about from hut to hut while others were
at work, lie was at last taken up and tried for
breaking into a house and stealing all the pro-
perty he could find in it; of this offence he was
convicted, and- suffered death, the Governor not
thinking him an object of mercy. Before he was
turned off, he confessed that he had committed
several thefts, to which he had been induced by bad
connections, and pointed out two women who had
received part of the property.
These women were immediately apprehended, and
one of them made a public example of, to deter them
from offending in the like manner. The convicts
being all assembled for muster, she was directed to
stand forward, and, her head having been previously
deprived of its natural covering, she was clothed
with a canvas frock, on which was painted, in large
characters “R.S.G.” (Receiver of Stolen Goods), and
threatened with punishment if ever she was seen
without it.
When the humiliating experience chronicled
above happened to Nancy Travers she was
a young woman of twenty-two, and, as has
been chronicled, not unprepossessing in
appearance. Even when her hair was cut off,
and she was clad in the canvas frock which
the sailmaker of the Sirius had tailored for
her, she still had sufficient good looks to
cause nearly every man in the settlement —
from the Governor down —to. wonder what
she had found attractive in tlie young Irish-
man who had been paid for his Wild Cat
with a length of hemp.
The women of the First Fleet were a
curiously mixed lot, whose ages ranged be-
tween thirteen and seventy-five. There were
ugly old hags who, a hundred years earlier,
might easily have been cremated alive in
some English villages as witches: women in
the prime of life; girls in their twenties,
some pretty, some with the remains of good
looks that had been ruined by dissipation—
a few who were only children. Most of them
arrived in the Lady Penrhyn, whose surgeon,
Dr. Bowes—he became Bowcs-Smith later in
life—wrote one of the most valuable and
interesting journals of the eight months’
voyage of the First Fleet that have come
down to us.
Dr. Bowes was a kindly young man, who
had begun the voyage with an optimistic
idea that he might be able to land his
charges in New South Wales very much
better women than they had been when they
first came into his hands. The voyage was
to act upon them as a kind of purgatory, in
which they would, he hoped, undergo a pro-
cess of purification and moral uplift. But by
the end of it he had sadly changed his views.
“I wish,” he wrote, “I could with truth add
that the behavior of the female convicts mer-
ited indulgence; but I believe I may venture
to say there was never a more abandoned
set of wretches collected in one place at any
period than are now to be met with in this
ship.”
When it is taken into consideration that
Miss Travers had been sent overseas for a
term of ten years owing to a conviction for
shoplifting that was not her first detected
offence, that she had been a fairly typical
member of the community of female prisoners
on the Lady Penrhyn, and that her associa-
tion with the late mine promoter, Mr. Daly,
was notorious —to say nothing of her canvas
frock with “R.S.G.” daubed on its back in
tar —it is amazing to identify her with the
Golden Woman of Macquarie’s day. But it
is a fact that Mrs. Devine, of Macquarie-
place, in Sydney, merchant and shipowner,
was none other than that same Nancy
Travers who had been so ignominiously
punished as a result of the indiscretion of
Jamesey Daly in the year of Sydney’s foun-
dation.
She was a woman of 45 in 1813,
when we come across her again—one of those
well-developed females to whom it is usual to
refer as “a fine woman.” There was nothing
in her face to suggest that her origins had
been criminal, and a striking feature of her
appearance was her magnificent head of
golden hair. It had the rich color of a ripe
cob of maize, and was piled in great masses
above a broad white brow that suggested
intellectual powers of more than ordinary
capacity. Her magnificent hair had done
something to earn her the name by which
Sydney knew her best; but there was another
reason for it. Mrs. Devine was a business
woman of extraordinary ability, and every
enterprise she touched seemed, literally, to
turn to gold. There was no shrewder woman
in New South Wales- —unless it was her
neighbor in Macquarie-place, also the widow
of a sailor, Mrs. Mary Ileibey.
Captain Isaac Devine, master of one of
the storeships accompanying the First Fleet,
tiring of the sea, had decided to throw in his
lot with the little community struggling to
establish its footing on the shores of Port
Jackson, and had been appointed by Governor
Phillip to a position in the Commissariat
Department under Mr. Andrew Miller, the
Commissary-General. He had been a witness
of Nancy Travers’s public degradation, had
admired the spirit with which she underwent
her punishment—as well as her good looks—
and had offered to marry her. The kindly
Phillip had been only too glad to agree to
something that might help the woman to
save herself.
Before his departure for England, in 1792,
Phillip noted with pleasure that Captain
and Mrs. Devine had well established them-
selves as storekeepers and traders, and were
on the way to becoming reputable and suc-
cessful colonists.
_ Captain Devine died in Governor King’s
time, leaving his widow the sole proprietor
of a flourishing and growing business and
the owner of two ketches that traded be-
tween the Hawkegbury settlements and
Sydney, and made occasional voyages for
cedar and coal to the Coal River (the
Hunter). She never looked back, and her
interests by the time that Macquarie took
over the Government in 1800, some twenty
years after her arrival in New South Wales,
were many and varied. She owned sealing-
ships and whalers, several farms in the
neighborhood of the Green Hills (Windsor),
and a flourishing importing business in Mac-
quarie-glace. She had long become ‘‘free
by servitude,” and when Macquarie came lie
found in her exactly the type of successful
emancipist whom lie delighted to encourage
and assist.
This summer morning Mrs. Devine walked
up the slope the few hundred yards that lay
between her house near Sydney Cove and
the vice-regal residence, in response to a
summons from his Excellency that had been
delivered the night before. She was an
elegant and sumptuously arrayed figure as
she approached Government House, and the
sergeant of the guard felt that, somehow,
he was failing in his duty when he did not
turn out the guard in her honor, making
amends for an omission that he regretted
by according her the most magnificent per-
sonal salute of which he was capable.
Mrs. Devine was immediately admitted
to his Excellency's presence, and Macquarie
rose from his chair and bowed as she came
into the room. He placed a seat for her,
and entered upon the business that hail
caused him to summon her.
“Mrs. Devine,” he said, “I have requested
your presence here this morning in order to
bring to your notice something that may be
of advantage to you—and of much advan-
tage to this young country.”
The Golden Woman inclined her stately
head, and the wonderful hair shone strangely
against the light of the window behind her.
“ ’Tis very good of you, sir—your Excel-
lency, I mean. Pray, what is it? I’d be
glad for to hear it, Mr. Macquarie, sir.”
“I will inform you, Mrs. Devine. Three
or four days ago the bv>; Amelia, whaler,
of which Mr. William sawkins is master
and owner, came into this port from the
islands of New Zealand, and yesterday Mr.
Sawkins came to consult with me upon a
matter of business. It seems that, in a Maori
village on the west coast of the South Island,
Mr. Sawkins found in the possession of one
of the inhabitants a piece of quartz-rock
of a highly auriferous character, and was
so impressed by”——
She interrupted him. “Please, your Ex-
cellency, and what may ‘auriferous’ mean,
if I may make bold for to ask ’ee? ’Tis a
word. I don’t know.”
“‘Auriferous,’ Mrs. Devine? I should have
said ‘gold-bearing.’ That is what it means.
He says it was the richest specimen he has
ever seen—but by no inducement could lie
prevail upon its owner to part with it. I
know Mr. Sawkins for a very respectable,
truthful man, and do not doubt that this
piece of stone was all he says it was. lie is
convinced that it came from somewhere in
the country, not very far from where he saw
it—somewhere inland—-and he put it to me
that the matter was one worthy of investi-
gation. It is, lie thinks —and I am of the
same opinion—a thing that someone possess-
ing the means to do so might well find worth
while inquiring into. If such a person could
be found in the colony, who would be pre-
pared to go to the expense of equipping au
expedition to search for the place where
the specimen was found, he. would be pre-
pared to offer the use of his ship for the
enterprise, free of all charge. He is not
possessed of the means, himself, to fit out
such an expedition, and only has his ship,
and the knowledge of the locality, to offer.
So he asked me whether I knew of anyone
who might be likely to consider the scheme—
and I immediately thought of you, Mrs.
Devine. I know your reputation as a woman
of enterprise and great business capacity,
and understand that the means of providing
for the equipment of such a venture as Mr.
Sawkins suggests would be readily available
to you. I know your integrity to be of as
high an order as that of Mr. Sawkins, and
am of an opinion that, by bringing you and
him together in this business, I might be
doing something that would eventually prove
of benefit to this part of the world. Pray
tell me, Mrs. Devine, what you think of Mr.
Sawkins’s idea. I would be glad to learn
your views.”
And then Macquarie received the shock of
his lifetime. His own words may best
describe it, as he related the incident to
Mrs. Macquarie a little later in the day.
“My dear Elizabeth,” he said, “I was
simply astounded by the behaviour of the
woman. She rose to her feet and cursed
Mr. Sawkins in a most vehement and start-
ling fashion, using language such as is in
vogue amongst the very lowest of the con-
vict women. She even cursed ME! And
as she flounced out of the room, she liter-
ally shouted at me
“ ‘No more of that for me. If you want to
know why, ask some of the old hands—ask
some of the First Fleeters. They’ll tell
you. No more of that. To Hell with all
goldmines !'
“Temper! Anger / I never before saw
such a manifestation of it. I shall cause in-
quiries to be made of some of the people
who came here with Governor Phillip. ’7 will
be interesting to know why the Golden
Woman, as they call her, should have been
so put out. Dear me! I never saw anything
like it!”
Peach Blossoms.
Most delicate and roseate loveliness,
You hide among your petals many things —
Pale butterflies with gold dust on thevr
wings;
A dainty mousmee in a silken dress;
A Persian prince, Whose linen turban curls
About a pink and priceless loop of pearls;
Peach blossoms, I have set you in a jar,
Using you as a magic wand to make
A thousand woven rainbow whimsies wake,
Drifting to me from countries lost, or far.
In your jade stems and your brown buds
are blent
Color and odor of the Orient.
So delicate a sudden gust would break
In dewy fragments your fragility,
Teaming you roughly from the parent tree;
Yet, from your scattered petals would I
make
A monument whose fragrances must yield
A nch potpourri, gleaned in Fancy’s field:
A ruined bush-hut up a,t Tambourine,
Before a red ploughed block where
magpies wing.
Between the lofty gums lianas swing;
The chalk-stemmed fig neio cloaked with
glossy-green ;
And, where the huntpyfs riddled timbers sag,
Peach blossom leaving like a carmine flag.
QUEENSLAND.
A grey stone cottage in an English vale;
A chessboard sweep of barley-glistening
green;
A lazy chimney casting o’er the scene
Blue wood-smoke hazy as a gaffer’s tale.
A foolish pointless tale, but none the less
Fraught with a pleasant, old-world friendli-
ness.
A sallow wall on which a peach-tree leans ;
A wild bird singing in the bough, as though
It deems for it alone the blossoms hloio,
As though for it God planned a score of
greens,
And spilled them over twig and blade and
spray
To make material for a rondelay.
Peach blossoms! You have perfumed all mi
room;
My four dun icalls, my huddled papers, til
1 heap- a robin on my window sill,
I see a moth-browed lady in the gloom.,
Ha' padded slippers pointed out to show
A peach flower broidered on each satin to<
Who wants a genie with a magic mat?
Who craves the lamp Aladdin carried dow.
(With such suspicious bulging ’neath hi*
gown ) ?
Who needs Dick Whittington’s immortal ca t:
In this tall vase of pink peach bloom I set
All that my heart can hold of wizardry!
M. FORREST.


Hanking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000.000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves . . .. £3,369,963
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. If. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER ; C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 02 Bishoysgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 1 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 374,197
Ordinary Shares . . .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,609,655
Tv D A
V IV H.L Id
GRANTS
011 Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
a t interest for
fixed periods
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£1,000,000
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
[effected on all classes of
■Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. 0. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
df
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Tin/o Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
sd
fs
df
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
in
THE REGISTER,
which is read by ali classes,
Proprietors:
W. K. THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
ERIC N. BERKS, N.S.W. Representative.
Telephone Xn'lB7.
G. N. BEDNALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.
Shipping, etc.
#4
rtWREW)
VUll
Pacific Isles are Calling
HONOLULU EXCURSIONS
SPECIAL Excursions to Honolulu via Auckland and
Suva will be run from Sydney by the magni-
ficent ocean liners Aorangi and Niagara.
U XQUISITE Hawaii, embowered in blos-
*- J som, offers fragrant welcome to her
Australian guests. A thousand sights
enchant, and fascinating contrasts extend
from the surfing beach of Waikiki to the
great precipice of the Pali.
Return Excursion Fares
From Sydney £75 (First), £55 (Second).
Aorangi, Nov. 15.
Aorangi, Jan. 10.
Niagara, Dec. 13.
Niagara, Feb. 7.
Alternative Excursions
to Raratonga and Papeete are but
£55 First Saloon and £4O Second.
Particulars and literature from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by All Steamship Lines.
Choice of Any Route. Without Extra Charge.
From AUSTRALIA to
ENGLAND
FRANCE
ITALY
GERMANY
AMERICA
CANADA
MEXICO
AFRICA
JAPAN
EGYPT
INDIA
CHINA
Also attractive tours to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji, etc.
BUSINESS TRIPS.
PLEASURE CRUISES.
AUSTRALIA TO
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly sailings maintained by the popu-
lar steamers “MARELLA” and “MALA-
BAR” from Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane, via
Queensland Ports,
Torres Strait,
Darwin, etc.
For Reservations and
Information apply: —
sd
fs
dfs
d
fs
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And all Branch Offices.
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Nestor 15,000 tons, Oct. 2
JCeramic .. . 18,500 ~ Oct. 16
* Ulysses 15,000 „ Nov. 13
fThemistocles 11,500 ~ Nov. 27
*Anchises. . . 10,000 ~ Dec. 10
*Ascamus. . . 10,000 ~ Jan. 7
JSuevic 12,500 ~ Jan. 23
tEuripides . . 15,000 ~ Jan. 28
tßunic 12,500 „ Feb. 19
*Nestor 15,000 ~ Mar. 18
"First class only. tFirst and Third class.
i:“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
|
j*« oB
P. & 0. BRANCH SERVICE
ONE CLASS ONLY.
MONTHLY SERVICE.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown
To LONDON, via Colombo, Port Said
and Suez Canal
VIA SOUTH AFRICA, | VIA SUEZ CANAL.
BORDA ... Sails Sept. 14 | BARRABOOL Sails Feb. 27
BARADINE „ Sept. 28 | BARADINE „ April 3
BENALLA „ Oct. 12 ] BALRANALD „ May 1
Fares: To South Africa, £2l to £27
To London via Suez, £3B to £45
To London via Cape, £37 to £45
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.,
Tel. 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Huddart ParkerLlM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 18X7.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND ..
RESERVE LIABILITY
df
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,600,000
£20,650,000
Dir ec tori:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager ; OSCAR LINES.
Head Office — George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
518 Blanches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong an o ici
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gul P »
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geialdton
and North-West Ports).
Steamer.
Leaves
I Leaves Svdney Agents.
Melbourne
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street.
Melbourne S.S. Co.
Ltd., Clarence
6 Barrack Sts.
Howard Smith,
Ltd.,Kemblaßlg.,
58 Margaret St.
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kemblaßlg.,
58 Margaret St.
Huddart, Parker,
Ltd., lOßridgeSt.
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Ti
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberj
at Townsville for outports).
cargo for Mackay),
unshipping at Bris-
' and Gladstone, and
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steanier and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU. CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, AV.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
A FEW moments
spent in attaching
WEED CHAINS to your
tyres — before trouble
is encountered —will
prevent danger and long
delays on the road.
Weed Chains grip
give positive traction
in mud or sand.
Standard of quality for
over a quarter of
a century
WEED
TYRE CHAINS


Miss MARGARET BA NNERMA N,
noted Stage Beauty, now appearing
at the Criterion Theatre, Sydney, is a
user of Rexona Soap and writes as
follows: “1 think that Rexona Soap is
delightful for the skin and hair.”
H
■1
PII
■■
r
I
1
s-
-1*
»
:A
Ikw
cm
lo^Qj
ospemm(
land
If you wish to preserve the freshness arid beauty of your complexion, you will find there is no
substitute for Rexona Soap and water. Rexona Soap cleanses the skin and beautifies it.
because it contains all the soothing properties of Rexona itself. Rexona is the greatest skin
Remedy of the Age, and Rexona Soap is medicated with Rexona.
This is what gives it that pure, fresh, out-of-door fragrance that appeals to so many thousands
of fastidious men and women who want and insist on having only the best and purest soap,
and one which is free of all alkali. If you would have a natural complexion, a clear,
faultless skin which will stand the closest inspection, you will never obtain this quicker and
more surely than by the daily use of Rexona Soap.
H&xoncL
<soap
~for JMe aLtlv
J and
3exuitij
m
'Trrrn>)>}}}•/?//,
s s*
vA
m
s*\ii
p\)U\f '^--’
a
1/
Mailed to you the -
day they are made
famous Red Box oP
f usb free lo any
address in duslrali
X
(PATON)
m
PIUCES
■3/-. 54 , 6/-, 10/-. 124,
20/a.txoL3o/
HILL
CHOCOLATES
addiless “ 162-166 Pitt Street
SYDNEY
£3o*
SEND FOR. CATALOGUE ILLUSTRATED WITH REPRODUCTIONS OF OUR. CONFECTIONERY IN COLOURS
The Desert Barrier.
A GOLD-HUNTER’S TALE OF THE WILD NOR’-WEST, BY BEN GUN.
}'M stuck now. That publican at the Five
Mile got my camels and a hundred quid
in cash. I did in the lot quick and lively.
It’s trouble on a man’s mind makes him go
loony and do in all lie’s got. And I had
enough to worry me. It's a fact that I know
of a bit of country richer than anything
that has ever been found in Australia so
tar —-yes, better than Coolgardie. The trouble
is that i can’t go back, and it’s not that I’m
afraid, or because I couldn’t find it. I could
go there all right. I hope no one ever finds
it, anyway. Gold isn’t everything, though I
used to think it was.
I turned into the desert off the Canning
stock route—or what they call the Canning
stock route. It was just at the beginning
of last wet season. I’d had an idea for a
long time that away to the eastward there
was good country. Nobody, so far as I knew,
ever tried out there.
George Laurie, the prospector, argued with
me that there is no such thing as desert in
Australia. If lie’s right, then I want to
know wliat all that bare sand is I travelled
through for three days. There are no better
camels in Australia than mine, but I tell
you that trip had them thinking. When a
sandstorm came up on the third morning,
nearly cutting the face off me and making it
impossible to see more than a hundred yards
ahead, I began to wonder how things were
going to turn out.
But all this time I had something telling
me that a good patch lay ahead and I kept
going. The wind dropped in the afternoon,
and when the atmosphere cleared just before
sunset I saw a line of hills across the
horizon and knew that I was right. The
camels sensed salvation also, and kept going
without giving me any trouble, grunting about
it to each other. I got on to hard country
before daylight, and came into a gully with
scrub and a creek full of water. It was
like Heaven after what we had come through.
I soon had the saddle and packs off and let
the camels go to fill their bellies.
Directly it was light enough I had a scout
round for blacks’ tracks and saw none. I
settled down for a day’s spell, did a bit of
cooking and washing and had a good sleep.
Next morning I went on. There was a great
wild-looking range of mountains before me
just as I had expected to find. Beyond the
foothills there was a plain with feed and
water everywhere. Ducks and geese were on
the lagoons in thousands; and I saw any
amount of kangaroos. I made my camp
that afternoon alongside a lake. All the
way I never saw a black’s track. It seemed
I had the place to myself.
Then in the very first creek I tried I got
gold. I never thought it possible to strike
it as rich as that —slugs that went three or
four ounces and a trail of gold in every
dish. Also I picked up a bit of quartz as
big as my hand that had ten or twelve
ounces at one end of it.
I was sitting staring at this and thinking
that I was going to be the richest man in
the world, when a voice close behind me said
“Good morning.” If a cannon had gone off
at my ear it could not have given me a
bigger shock. I jumped up and spun round.
There was a white man standing within three
feet of me—a mighty fine-looking chap, too,
with a long, fair beard, and hair hanging-
down to his shoulders. All his clothing was
a loincloth, but lie had a belt with a nine-
inch Colt buckled to him. His skin was
dark as a Malay’s with the sun, and his
eyes were very light, with a queer kind of
piercing look that went through me.
I could feel that he was anything but
pleased to see me and there was going to
be trouble. And then I got another shock.
About fifty yards away stood a crowd of
blacks. They were not huddled together
in a mob, but drawn up in two ranks like
soldiers; standing to attention without as
much as a flicker of an eyelash, and not a
whisper.
For a few moments that chap and I stared
at each other, he with a kind of amused
twinkle in his eyes, and I with my mouth
open a foot.
“So you arrived, my friend,” he said at
last. He had that elegant way of speaking
that swells have, and even in that loin-
cloth he had the look of a swell.
“You will come up to my camp for lunch,”
says he. He was giving me an invitation, I
know, but the way he did it sounded like a
command and made me mad. I refused to
go, telling him that I had tucker of my
own. “xVh!” said he with that long superior
drawl of his, and stared through me again.
I could see then that I would have to go.
It was not only his size and the fact that
he had all those black soldiers at the back
of him that made me feel his power. There
was something else about him.
“One of the boys is bringing up your
camels now,” he said in his cold, calm voice.
“You will pack tip and come with me at
once.” All this time I had been hanging
on to a dish that must have had a hundred
ounces of gold in it, as well as the big lump
on the quartz. He held out liis hand for it.
“Allow me,’’ says he. I handed it over. “You
will not need this,” he said, and threw the
whole lot into the gully.
I went sour on him then, calling him a
thief and everything I could lay my tongue
to. He took no notice of that, but just
looked at me as if I had been a cur dog
yelping at him.
I tell you he was no ordinary man, that
naked swell with liis black regiment. A
couple of his soldiers gave me" a hand to
pack up. They knew how to do it, too;
they had a trained and silent way of doing
things that astonished me. *
It was only about four miles to his camp—
a regular township. The houses were built of
slabs and snugly roofed with bark. The
place he lived in himself was as good as
some of the houses around Sydney Harbor.
But what astonished me more than that was
the amount of cleared land. Bight up the
valley I could see green cultivated fields
smiling in the sunlight. On the hillsides mobs
of goats were grazing. Not far away, in a
big bough shed, a blackfellow was teaching
a lot of kiddies. Not a soul, man, woman
or child, showed the slightest interest in me.
They just went on about their work singing
and smiling. There was an air of content-
ment and peace about the place such as I
never thought was possible.
No sooner did I come under that chap’s
verandah than he started to treat me like an
honored guest. If I had been a State Governor
calling on another we could not have put
on more swank. I nearly killed myself trying
to keep up to him. The sweat fairly teemed
off me with sheer politeness. Only the fact
that I had a clean shirt and pants on kept
me from breaking down altogether and grovel-
ling in front of him. What it was about
him that made me feel like that I do not
know. I can only tell you that, naked as he
was, he looked somehow like an emperor
is supposed to look. He was the first chap
I ever bumped up against that: made me
feel like tuppence.
The feed he gave me was a first-rate one—
as good as you get in the best pubs along
the coast. A naked black fellow waited on
us and did the job well enough for Govern-
ment House. All the time I was eating, that
swell kept on talking to me in the most
highfalutin’ way. I was glad to get out on
the verandah with the old pipe going. Here,
and feeling a bit better, I made up my mind
to ask him what he was going to do with
me.
“Well,” I says, “now, what is exactly
the strong of all this? I’ve got a miner’s
right to peg out that ground I was on this
morning. What about it?”
“You will go back,” he said. “You will
get off my country.” He stared at me with
those queer twinkling light eyes of his, and
I felt the sweat turn cold on my brow. “Do
you know that I should really have you
killed?” he asked. “If you were a different
type of man I would certainly do so. But I
have an idea that I can trust you to go away
and never return.”
“But look here,” said I. “Do you mean
to say that you won’t work that gold your-
self and refuse to let anyone else get it?”
“I do,”.he replied. “In my opinion gold
is the greatest curse a country can have.”
He pointed to his village, and those culti-
vated fields all smiling and green in the
afternoon sunshine. “Tell me, have you ever
seen a happier place than this? Do you
know that not a man or woman among those
people of mine ever thinks or does a thing
of which he need feel ashamed. There is
no crime, no poverty. Even envy and hatred
are practically unknown. The only thing
I have to fear is that someone may reach
here from civilisation and ruin it all. So
far we have been very lucky. The desert
is the finest barrier on earth. You are only
the second wanderer to reach us during the
25 years I have lived here. The other stayed
with me until he died. I let him do so
because he was harmless. The desert had
driven him mad; he was insane when my
boys found him and never got back liis
senses. The only thing I have to fear now
from you is that greed of gold may cause you
to form a syndicate and bring back a strong
expedition. But let m e tell you that it will
take an army to beat me.”
He rose from hi s chair and, opening the
door of a room, asked me to look inside.
The place was stacked full of liigh-power
rifles and boxes of ammunition. He smiled
over his shoulder at me. “So you see,” he
said, “we have some defence.” We sat down
again.
‘■'l’m going to let you go,” he said. “Also,
I am sending two boys to guide you out to
the telegraph line. The way is shorter and
better than the road you came. But you will
make the journey blind-folded. And, remem-
ber, if you try to track yourself back here
or ever return, you will be killed. Another
matter. Not one color of gold shall I allow
you to take away with you. But I am going
to give you something to make up for that.”
He opened a tin box and brought out a
great bundle of notes, counted off ten
tenners and handed them to me.
( “I keep a sum of money by me,” he said,
“for once every couple of years I go to the
coast to get things one must have even here.
As a matter of fact, I am a rich man so
far as income of my own is concerned. Not
one penny comes from this place. Not an
ounce of gold goes away. I live here only
for the sake of the place and my people.
Now go and rest, for to-night you will
leave when the moon rises.”
And I left. Those niggers never took the
bandage off my eyes until they put me on the
Overland telegraph line. I never tried back
along my tracks either. But it’s not exactly
that the swell has me bluffed. I have a
feeling somehow that he has a right to be
letft alone. Mind you, when I think of all
that gold he threw away in the gully I feel
like going mad altogether, more especially
as I haven’t a couple of bob in the world,
and that blasted publican at the Five Mile
got the camels off me.
Idealism
Dark-pinioned ’gainst the crimson fire
Of sunset skies, those yearning wings
Long wearied with a great desire,
A proud bird soars in lonely flight,
West-bound, and lonely sings;
Sings without happiness or pain.
Without new joy or old regret—-
For the notes of that long refrain
Are born of a throbbing song
That music knows not yet.
Dark wings, storm driven in their flight
From summer fields and tranquil streams
Where cooling winds bring quiet delight ’
To a heart that rests and sleeps
Through pale idyllic dreams.
Proud bird, dark-pinioned, it grows dim!
You think to climb each purpled cloud
And mount the burning sunset’s rim
To the inmost fire of crimson light
Hasten, poor bird, a shroud
Hangs trembling in the arms of night!
N.S.W.
ROBERY DALE.


RUB IT IN
Great Value Of
ZAM-BUK
As An Embrocation
Use If for
COLD-ON-
the-chest
RHEUMATISM
LUMBAGO
SCIATICA
HESS PAINS
DY rubbing in Zam-Buk,
healing warmth and
valuable medicated oils are
carried to the seat of the
trouble —be it a cold on the
chest, a sore throat, or a
touch of neuralgia or rheu-
matism.
When you “rub it in,” Zam-
Buk liberates certain refined
herbal essences which soak
through the tiny pores into
the tissues beneath. Inflam-
mation, congestion and irri-
tation are allayed and trouble
is removed at its source.
Certain volatile medicaments
in Zam-Buk can be breathed
in with good effect in nasal
catarrh and bronchial trouble*
The total absence of mustard
and capsicum from this
wonderful rubbing balm
makes it soothing and safe to
use. Rub Zam-Buk in to rub
pain out!
RHEUMATIC PAIN & POISON EXPELLED;
“For months I suffered agonies with rheumatism in
both ankles. I tried all sorts of ordinary ointments and
liniments, but none did any good. Zam-Buk, however,
rubbed well into my swollen, aching joints, drove out
all pain and poison and banished the trouble com-
pletely.”—Mrs. D. Connolly, Franklin Street, Adelaide.
t
X.
\
X
CRIPPLE WALKS
AGAIN
“After rheumatic fever
my legs remained very
swollen and painful.
Regular use of Zam-Buk
eased the torturing pain,
and soon enabled me to
get about again.”—Mr.
I loare, Wharf-s tree t,
Brisbane.
- FARMER’S ACHING
BACK
“With persistent use of
Zam-Buk my old deep-
seated lumbago pains com-
lotely disappeared.”—Mr.
W. R. Fremantle, Zee-
Rust, Transvaal.
NEURALGIC PAINS
“I suffered from neuralgia
in my head and arms, and
nothing seemed to do any
good until I got Zam-
Buk. This grand balm
proved a splendid pain-
reliever. It stopped the
all ac k s completely.”—
Mrs. G. du Toit, Beau-
fort West, S.A.
WEAK CHESTS
HEALED
“My children were weak-
chested and had nasty,
croupy coughs. Rubbed
well into the chest, Zam-
Buk stopped the cough,
eased the breathing and
made both chil d r e n
strong-chested.”—Mrs. C.
F. Campbell, Willowmore,
S.A.
SPRAINS & STRAINS
“When I sprained my
wrist the pain, swelling
and inflammation were
terrible. Applications of
Zam-Buk, however, gave
splendid relief. It soon
made the wrist strong and
supple again.” Mrs. Mee-
han, Toowoomba, Q.
FREE SAMPLES
OF ZAM-BUK
BALM & SOAP.
Here is an opportunity of testing Zam-Buk,
the world-famed herbal balm, and Zam-Buk
Medicinal Soap, free of charge. Simply send
your name and address on a p.c. to C. E.
Fulford (Ausf), litd., Sydney, and trial
samples will be posted by return. Mention
Sydney Bulletin 19/9/’2B.
WIVB 7VBU3H J.V3U9 3HJL
Mng-uiq
had Mumae’s white dresses and undercloth-
ing in her tub, and Coonardoo swished
the soft muslin things, silk and laces that
Mumae had given her to rinse through rain
water, with softer soap, in one of the flat
tin milk-dishes.
Bandogera chased off children from the
uloo who had come to play round the
washtubs. Coonardoo suggested they should
look for eggs the white hens might have
laid in the woodheap, and the little ones
ran off, throwing a word or two back to
her over their shoulders.
Coonardoo’s laughter rippled as she held
up Jessica’s dainty garments. Meenie and
Bardi exclaimed and laughed with her.
Only Bandogera went on rubbing grease and
red earth from Hugh’s and Saul Hardy’s
trousers as if this was the only part of the
washing that mattered at all.
A little distance out from the verandah
an oil-drum of water steamed over a fire,
between large stones. Meenie took her
tub of light white things out to it.
Up at the sheds Geary’s camels were
standing ready to move off. Bob mounted
first and swung away against the sky, the
great tawny beast moving slowly, a younger
camel strung behind. The camel Geary'
was to ride crouched on the ground wait-
ing for him to seat himself. Already Sheba
and the ration cart were at the creek-
crossing. She had driven off as soon as
Bob brought the camels in.
The gins talked about Sheba and Sam
Geary as they rubbed and wrung clothes
in their wash-tubs. Sheba had been with
Geary two or three years now. She kept
the keys of the store-room. Before Sheba
there had been Sarah and Tamar. Now
Sheba and Tamar both had corrugated-iron
huts on Nuniewarra, although Sheba spent
most of her time at the homestead with
Sam. She made tea for visitors, and Geary
took her with him when he went into Kar-
rara, engaged rooms for her at the hotel
and gave her money to buy silk dresses.
She/went to the races with him. But here
at Wytaliba Sheba had to eat at the kala
miah with the other gins. Mrs. Bessie would
only treat her as she did her own women.
All the evening before Sheba had
crouched in the dark by the woodheap,
while Sam sat talking with Mrs. Bessie and
the men on the verandah, too afraid to
stay after dark beside the ration cart, and
waiting until Sam should say good night
and stalk off, to follow him, make a fire
and go to sleep herself under the cart.
Wytaliba women laughed at, exclaimed
over, but did not envy Sheba.
From the other end of the verandah Jes-
sica and Mrs. Bessie watched the camels
swing away, the great, slow, unwieldy
beasts, their heads raised as though scent-
ing the distance.
Hugh walked out from the barred rails
of the stockyard, waving his hand to Bob.
Bob waved and called back to him.
Geary shouted, swaying to the slow lurch-
ing gait of his camel: “Anew saddle to a
case of Black and White, Youie!”
“What does he mean?” Jessica asked.
The words had floated to the verandah on
the still, clear air.
“Oh, it’s a bet, I suppose,” Mrs. Bessie
replied testily. She had heard that bet
before, but never of a young man winning
his saddle.
“I wish it were me! I wish I were going
too.” Jessica cried, watching the camels
dwindle, and finally obliterate themselves
in low clouds of red dust. She began to
cry. “I can’t bear it, Mrs. Watt,” she ex-
ciaimed; “I really can’t!”
“Oh, my dear”—Mrs. Bessie’s voice was
very quiet, though her joy was suffocating
—“l’m sorry. You’ll have to tell Hugh.”
“It’s not a bit of good. I could never
marry him and live here!”
“Poor child!”
Mrs. Bessie did not know quite what to
say. She did not wish her joy or shrewd
reckoning to be obvious. And she was
sorry for the girl who had not found beauty
and peace in the long, quiet days and work
of Wytaliba. Bare and hard the life was,
but Mrs. Bessie loved every phase of it,
every line of the trees, every light and
color of the red earth and pale blue sky,
dove-grey mulga and white-barked creek
gum-trees with their long, dark, pointed
leaves.
“It’s so ugly and—and empty,” Jessica
sobbed. “There’s nothing to do, nowhere
to go. Even Hugh isn’t the same—and I
don’t see him for weeks at a time.”
“I understand.” Mrs. Bessie was dying
to say: “I thought you’d feel like that
about it.” But she would not allow herself
to.
Jessica said it for her. “I believe you’re
glad,” she gasped. “I believe you knew
I’d feel like this.”
“Well,” Hugh’s mother murmured gently,
“I wanted to be sure. Hugh belongs here
and loves the country. So do I; but it
isn’t easy to get used to —if you really
don’t like it.”
“I’d like to like it. I have tried to get
used to it,” Jessica cried regretfully.
“Mother’ll be awfully cross with me.”
The fibres of Mrs. Bessie’s being tight-
ened. She knew, of course, what was at
the back of all this. Hugh was being made
a convenience of.
“Oh well,” she explained crisply, “you’ll
have better chances than Hugh, I’m sure,
my dear. You see, this is a very poor
station really, heavily mortgaged. It’s
never done more than pay its way. And
we’ve had bad seasons and bad seasons on
end. Sometimes I wonder if it’s ever going
to rain again.”
Jessica’s forehead wrinkled to her per-
plexity and concgrn. ‘‘Mother thought, oi
course, you were wealthy. All station
people have pots of money.”
As they washed and chattered, the gins
had seen Mumae and Jessica talking neai
the shadowy screen of the Nor’-West creeper,
hung with the tiny yellow and vermilion
lanterns of its seedpods. Looking under
their eyelashes at Mumae and the girl who
was to be Hugh’s woman, they guessed
something was wrong, exclaiming and gos-
siping together.
Meenie and Bandogera exchanged ideas
on the subject. Coonardoo stared at Jessica,
who had dropped into one of the bag chairs
and was crying helplessly. This girl did
not want to be Hugh’s woman. She, Coon-
ardoo, was filled with amazement; she had
thought any girl would be proud and very
pleased for Hugh to take her.
Jessica wept and wept.
“Wiah!” Coonardoo exclaimed to herself
ashamed because Jessica could be so stupid
as to cry like that.
The satisfaction of Coonardoo’s morning
was shadowed by the shadow threatening
Hugh. She knew the ways of white men
were different from the ways of her own
people. Jessica had talked of going away.
Was Hugh to lose his woman?
“Mrs. Leigh says she doesn’t think I
ever would get used to it!” Jessica’s eyes
wandered to where the Leighs lived in that
small, square house of corrugated iron at
the back of the homestead verandah. There
was no scrap of green, no tree, about, fi.
Only a shade shed of rusty leaves at one
side, a bough screen on posts rammed into
the earth before it for a verandah. “l !ie
sweat-bin,” Mrs. Leigh called it, and Jess ca
believed that living in it must be, as Mrs.
Leigh said, too awful for words.
“No,” Mrs. Bessie replied grimly. Hugh
had taken Jessica to see the Leighs, and
Jessica had gone over once or twice to have
tea and talk to Fanny.
“They’re going down in a day or two,
aren’t they?” Jessica ventured.
“Would you like to go with them, Jes-
sica?” Mrs. Bessie inquired politely.
“Mrs. Leigh says, if you wouldn’t mind,
they could make room for me and”
“Of course, my dear!” Hugh’s mother
was kindness and consideration itself. “I’m
only so sorry you’ve had such a dull time.
But I warned you, didn’t I, what it would
be like up here?”
“Oh yes, you did, Mrs. Watt.” Jessica’s
tears dripped. “But I never imagined I’d
be so lonely, that station life was anything
like this.”
How wo\ild Hugh take what Jessica had
to say, Mrs. Bessie wondered. He was
always so restrained, so reserved. Eagerly,
closely as Mrs. Bessie studied her son, she
could never quite tell what was going on
within him. He had escaped her in those
long years at school. The wonder was he
had come back with a hunger for the coun-
try and the work of the station.
His mother did not know how much of
Jessica had got beneath Hugh’s skin—
whether it was just an inclination for women
which had presented itself in her, or whether
there was something in this shallow dainty
creature appealing to him more than that.
Hugh was sufficiently her own son to elude
her, Mrs. Bessie discovered.
He had seemed little more interested in
Jessica than in half a dozen other girls,
although Mrs. Haywood declared Hugh
and Jessica had been great chums for years
—ever since Tim had brought Hugh to
spend summer holidays with them, when
the boys were at Stratford together. Mrs.
Bessie had heard of the Hay woods and
Moores in Hugh’s letters, of course; but
she was surprised to find him with such
a bevy of friends when she went south.
“I’d no idea you were such an attractive
young man, Hugh!” she exclaimed.
She had taken rooms at the Savoy Hotel
while she was in Perth and entertained all
the people who had been kind to Hugh—
entertained them with eager open-handed-
ness, by way of reaction from the long
years of parsimony she had endured for
his sake.
Mrs. Bessie let the girl break her own
news. Leaving Hugh with Jessica, in the
garden under the stars, she went into the
dining-room to write letters, knowing that
Hugh would be driving Jessica down to
Nuniewarra with the Leighs in a day or so.
But Mrs. Bessie could not write; she could
only listen to Jessica’s voice, its exclama-
tions, staccato and broken. She was crying.
What Hugh had to say his mother did not
hear. His voice was so low; it moved on
a word or two, gravely, quietly.
As Mrs. Bessie tried to write, moths
whirled in the light about her. Then Hugh
stood beside her. He was smiling, some
hurt in his eyes.
“Jessica would like to go down—as soon
as possible,” he said.
“I know.”
His mother tried desperately to read on
the quiet surface what was going on in the
man’s body and mind that ' Hugh had
acquired. But it was no use. Already habits
of solitude and independence were ruling
him; he had closed in on himself as most
men of the country do.
After all, Mrs. Bessie discovered, with
Geary’s bet ringing in her ears, she was less
pleased than she had thought she wouM
be for Hugh to be losing his sweetheart.
(To be continued.)


m
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE SHAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMJES « CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—-93-107 F«atherston Street, Welllnicton.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House/' 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. KLDBU, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide. S.A.
Everyone agrees that the
Daily Newspaper is a
wonderful advertising medium,
And in the Great State of
QUEENSLAND
the morning daily that to-day stands out easily supreme is
THE DAILY MAIL
Whose net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be
greater than that of any other Queensland daily.
Manufacturers and business men who buy their advertising space in the
best market nowadays select '“The Daily Mail” as the first medium in
Queensland .to carry their advertising messages. For further particu-
lars, Advertising Rates, etc., please appiy to
The Daily Mail, Queen Street, Brisbane*
Or ROBERT JACKSON, N.S.W. Branch Manager.
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
CLYNE HOUSE, 72 pfTT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone 31522.
THE MERCURY.
Tasmania’s National Daily.
(ESTABLISHED 1854). Price l*d.
Published at Hobart, The Mercury has
by far the largest circulation in Tas-
mania. Delivered by fast motor-cars if
reaches Launceston (121 miles), Delo-
raine (140 miles) and all intermediate
towns before breakfast.
Per inch, per thousand of circulation,
The Mercury advertising rates are the
lowest in the State.
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL.
ESTABLISHED 1877.
Published Wednesdays. Price 6d.
Everywhere—all over the State, in
Town and Country—this popular weekly
goes regularly into the homes of the
people, and each issue is eagerly read
by over 70,000 men, women and children.
THE BRIGHTEST WEEKLY
IN THE COMMONWEALTH.
No Tasmanian advertising campaign
is complete without these publications
DAVIES BROS., LTD.,
Head Office: Macquarie St., Hobart.
The Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South Australia,
and is Read by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation in
Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny of Net Sales
invited.
ALL THE NEWS AND ALL THE
ADVERTISEMENTS.
In 1927 average size of “THE ADVERTISER,”
26 pages of 8 columns (each 24J inch deep).
Space occupied by advertisements averaged
164 pages daily, or a Total of
988,712 INCHES IN THE YEAR.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agances of
Messrs. Gordon and Gotcli, price ljd.
Head Offices:
J. L. Bonython & Co.,
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
, P. L. WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone MA 3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you. price for the original.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
AN IDEAL WINTER HOME. The most sheltered spot on the Harbor.
Incomparable for Comfort. Excellent Cuisine and Service. Private Beach
and Amphitheatre Baths. Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4| Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast if required. Luncheons, Afternoon Teas, Dinner..
Delightful ‘La-minutes’ trip from City by Ferry or Motor
p - RESERVATIONS; Y 3012, i Lines.
QUEENSLAND<’S BIG DAILY PAPER
THE BRISBANE COURIER
Easily the best and biggest Daily Paper
published in Queensland and carries more
ADVERTISING
than any other Queensland paper year in
and year out - - “Courier” advertising
INCREASES SALES
Rate Cards and specimen
copies from
Robt. D - . Fisher,
Sydney Representative,
74 Pitt Street.
’Phone 85007.
Published by the
Brisbane Newspaper Co.,
“Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also publishers of the
' Queenslander” and
"Sports Referee."
What tale do
your eyes tell?
&
A
*s*
i vt
’V :
77ie Pi7/s that
Conquer Constipation
DO you know that your eyes can tell you when
your health is right or ailing ? If right, they
will be bright—if ailing, they will be dull and
lack lustre. In this case you probably suffer
constipation and liver trouble, one of the most pre-
valent causes of headaches, biliousness, indigestion,
etc. Constipation should be treated carefully, for,
if neglected, worse may follow.
The right medicine to take is BEECHAM'S PILLS
—the world’s approved regulative remedy. Beecham’s
are purely vegetable and will not harm the stomach.
They ensure the proper and harmonious working of
the digestive and eliminative organs.
Put things right quickly with the aid of
sdf
the unrivalled remedy for
Constipation, Biliousness, Sicl(
Headache, Indigestion, Dis-
ordered Stomach, Torpid Liver.
WORTH A
GUINEA A
v'tir Yi )Y
s>•«£
.;>-*•*«
GET THE NEWS OF ALL AUSTRALIA
FOR
Your Week-end Reading.
BUY THE NATIONAL WEEKLY WITH THE NATION’S NEWS.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
"THE AUSTRALASIAN”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at—
-113 Pitt Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
he
PLUM
a
«* enuj.no
10WSJUHKU, il tu
THE
plum
n
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle . . . . 21/- ~
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Day PLUM Razor Sets:
Black 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory 140/-
.per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kent
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths; fin. and Jin.
Post-paid Prices
VRUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
each. Post Free.
andAITKEN
ST SYDNEY
o
v
ti°
s 6
6
00^
ViC® V .-
s e*V*
* * • • *»
•** A'* **' ’
.** se^ef 0,
<^ 6fc °r>-
> # .-* “*W
...••vv '>'£*’
..*■


A
COMPLETE LINE
OE SIX CYLINDER
MOTOR CARS
by
Dodge brothers
The Senior—The Victory —
The Standard
&
The world expected sensational devel-
opments when Dodge Brothers entered
the six-cylinder field, but these three
cars surpass all expectations.
Distinctly superior to any car in their
respective price classes, they register the
highest point to which value can be
attained.
The luxurious Senior—the original and
brilliant Victory—and noW the Standard,
with its amazing performance and low
price—are achievements without par-
allel in motor car history.
Harden & Johnston, Limited, Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne,,
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane — Townsville .
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide .
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth •
Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland, N.Z.
Amuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, N.Z.
Oossens and Black, Ltd. .. Dunedin, N.Z.
P. H. 'Vickery , Ltd. .. Invercargill, N.Z.
Newton King, Ltd. .. New Plymouth, N.Z.
Magnus Motors, Ltd. .. Wellington, N.Z.
□□□be- Brothers
MOTOR. CARS
