

1
0
i
m
w
.IS
- \ ■'^r. ' ' <,»
AfXM^S
5^4
«i«*
%NCtO
ttV" 5
I ■- *o*
v<*r
\
PRice
berry
\
w
m
MONOPOLE
MAGNUMS
The Bulletin
z&t&tu, flhdr Jbvdc - Xus 7l u*n£e* /
Vol. 49.—N0. 2544.
Wednesday, November 14, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
1928 is now ready, and will be for-
warded with full particulars and terms on
application to
OYMOCR’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.'
Hill
UUtf
TO STOTT’S,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Ptoe me free, and without obligation . vow
ew Illustrated Book (just published) entitled
“BEAUTIFUL PENMANSHIP.”
NAME
ADDRESS
R.'P
EMITE
feicanf
%lemite
lubricant
gggjat.nsatf.«SEii
“AIEMITE-ING” Stops
Big Repair Bills
As Mere “Qreasing” Can NEVER DO
HERE IS WHY: “Alemite-ing”
means using AleirKte equipment to
force genuine Alemite Lubricant into
the bearings and gears of your car.
There is a vast difference between
“Alemite-ing” and ordinary “greas-
ing.” Because Genuine Alemite Lu-
bricants protect gears and bearings
as ordinary “grease” can never do.
Many “greases” are dangerously in-
efficient because heavy with “filler,”
soap and fatty acids. They break
down under pressure—literally melt
away!
A Pure Solidified Oil “Stands Up”
Alemite Lubricant, on the other
hand, is a pure, solidified oil, that
will stand up under 3,000 pounds
pressure! (Average/‘grease” breaks
down under 200 pounds pressure.) It
resists heat up to 200°. And will lubri-
cate bearings properly at 30° below
zero. You must have all-weather
lubrication if you’d eliminate burnt
out bearings and the rattles that
come from worn, corroded bearings.
Genuine Alemite Lubricants (for use
with both Alemite and Alemite-Zerk
Compressors) is on sale in handy 1
and 5 pound tins. Or, if your service
station does your lubricating—insist
they use genuine Alemite Lubricants
for your Alemite-ing, The Bassick
Manufacturing Company, Division
of Stewart-Warner, Chicago, U. S. A.
fd
The Alemite Fittings
Modern dust-proof Alemite and
Aleinite-Zerk fittings for chassis
bearings. Lubricnpt is shot
through them under high pres-
sure to the heart of the bearing.
Old grease and grit thus forced
out —clean new lubricant sur-
rounds the entire bearing.
ď
A lemite Compressors
To conform to fittings, com-
pressors come In two styles—
Alemite and Alemite-Zerk. The
Alemlte Compressor forces lu-
bricant through bearing by
twisting handle—the Alemite-
Zerk ‘'gun” by a simple thrust-
ing motion.
fd
The Alemite-ed Bearing
Cut-open view of lubricated
bearing. Note how lubricant
under pressure forces way eu*
tlreiy through bearing.
Xo. 534
ALEMITE
High Pressure Lubrication
teOArwoff.
Urb
ell
1 he Cigar of generous size and
Supreme in flavor and aroma
ďfd
tobacc
f
df
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/C (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
oO „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free,
d
CRAIG AND AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN ’ takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
"MUSTDIE" Kills that Fly!
Although “Mustdie” is so
thoroughly destructive to
insect life, it can be used
with absolute safety, as
it is perfectly harmless to
man, beast, fowl and
canaries. Use the “Must-
die” Spreader, for it is
not only economical, but
<l»e powder is distributed
[mustdleT
non raaanota rowocft
THE GREfll UOtO OE3TOWR.
{ Plica.
•a
V WnvyOßt*
•V
i
IT'
more effectively, and wt
want you to get. the best
results out of every ounce
of this great insect
destroyer.
Sold everywhere, or
forward 1/- in stamps
to Box 1520 G.P.0.,
Sydney. |s
The Red Page
Sonneted Ode
LOVELY, lyric O, that flowest
on—
Out from the very souls of poets
borne,
By sorrow over fancies lost or
gone,
Or deep drawn down on some most glorious
morn ;
Soft dost thou loose the ropes that hold the
throb
Of love or passion to their cutting bounds—•
From Pole to Pole, on one long oi'gan sob
The roll of those loud harmonies resounds !
Thou goest from our hearts, whose stories
told
Leave only sleep or death to those who wove
So strongly on strong looms, in patterns
bold.
The motley-colored wooves of work and love:
So. portioning off to Life the O's we owe,
With no more O’s to “Oh!”
We go
Below.
N.B.W.
RONALD McCUAIG.
The America Australian Theatre
Broadway and tlie movies threaten to
make the Australian theatre 100 per cent.
American. ’I hough he cannot give you the
date of Magna Chart,a, the average Aus-
tralian knows about Chaplin’s predisposi-
tion to ludo; he can reel off the birthplace,
aches, shoe-size and preferences in bath
salts of Pola Negri; and' he can dumb-
found. you with the reason why the late
Valentino left a pot of money to his fif-
teenth wife’s grandmother.
In the legitimate theatre the American
intrusion is not less marked. A little more;
than a couple of decades back' the first-
nighter was accustomed to soothe his tired
mind on the promiscuous piffles of London
hacksmiths. But presently there came a
new tone in the theatre. The perfsrvid
dearest” ol the Mplvilles became a “kid”;
heroes who were epilogues to Dean Farrar’s
Eric disappeared before the inrush of smart,
young men who talked of ‘Tank rolls”
and business whilst restlessly masticating
Big r %ha cigars. Thus fled'the dear old
British tradition with a covered carpet-tack
sticking in its shirt-tail. George M. Cohan
had arrived. Before him we had heard
Klein and one or two others; but Cohan
was the first to popularise the modern
American type. To-day our theatre is
almost lost to old England. Occasionally
a Frederick Lonsdale may introduce a new
nicely-Brummeled juvenile who is six feet of
starch from his collar to his spats. Less
occasionally Somerset Maugham may seek
to prove that “Our Betters” are worse, and
eveiy. now and then one of the repertory
societies may present aspects of Galsworthy
and _fehaw of a decade ago to friends and
relatives of the casts. A little more fre-
quently J. M. Barrie may mix blue lights
with his native haggis; but I doubt if any
playwright of British origin is deriving
enough royalties in Australia to keep even
a Scotchman in tip§,
On the other hand the American “White
Cargo produced fat dividends for its
adaptor. “Rose Marie,” which ran for
months, brought a further glow to the
coffers of Hammerstein, and another pros-
perous figure was “Abie’s Irish Rose.” Like
Melbourne, Sydney has six theatres in regu-
Jar commission, and it is a commonplace to
see half or more of them occupied by Ameri-
can shows. In most cases these are the
work of tmpot dramatists and tom-tom
musicians. Among the horde of American
productions that have reached these shores
I can recall only the following as revealing
adroit writing or a sophisticated metropoli-
tan color: “Seven Keys to Baldpate,” “Old
Lady 31 ” “The First Year,” “Baby Mine,”
rTaj T? t us , Annabelle,” “Saturdays
Children,” “Is Zat So?” and “The Best
People. It, is said that Nature abhors a
vacuum, but Broadway is never so hostile.
It can take an intellectual vacancy, stuff
the orifice with hokum and label it “Turn
to the Right,” “No, No, Nanette” or “Light-
nm _ m the almost certain hope of Australia
acclaiming it.
In vaudeville the position is much the
same. In earlier days we had Marie Lloyd
Peggy Pryde, Austin Rudd, Little Tieh
and many another vermilion of nose and
blue m intention to maintain the raffish
credit of Cockney humor. To-day an Ameri-
can comedian and his fair one negotiate jokes
that Tutankhamen must have bequeathed to
a person he disliked. There is much fallabout
by the gentleman, much byplay with a hat
in which a bev3 7 of cats have apparently
become mothers, whilst the lady upbraids
him with nasalities that would pierce the
vitals of a battleship. This form of diver-
sion, is increasingly common in Australia,
and is presumably staged on the principle
that one bad turn deserves another. But
American intervention in vaudeville does
not end there. There are the born coon
and the artificial blackface wobbling their
mouths and whistling as they talk. Above
all there is jazz. Jazz assails one from every
cafe, picture orchestra, dance dive, radio
and gramophone, and, having heard it in-
numerable times of late, I withdraw all the
bilious things I used to think about Wagner.
Yet the record is not altogether inglorious,
for, such is the irony of circumstance, the
America that has sent us the tenth-rate
has also sent us the first-rate. I allude to
Eugene O’Neill, profound and wily crafts-
man. O’Neill has a mind of the rarest
philosophic tenour; his thought issues in
gouts of stiff, Strindbergian utterance, his
drama slinks past the accustomed facts of
life to find itself in speculations on Man’s
moodiest destiny, and covering it all is a
humor, half-sad, half-sweet, with a slant-
ing sardonic edge. We have had little of
O’Neill in Australia, but even what we
have had makes the irruption of the corned
mutton of Broadway a little more bearable.
C.R. BRADISE.
A Great Illustrator.
Recently I held up before the eyes of a
cold-blooded calculator, who flatters himself
he is an art connoisseur, a copy of the
Frank Pape edition of “La Reine Pedauque.”
I invited him to agree with me that these
drawings were great; that in them .the old
rascal-Abbe just, leaps to the eye from every
page, as he never did in the unillustrated
edition; and that, in future,; Pape would be
bracketed with Anatole France as he would
be with Cabell, as Cruikshank is with
Dickens and Hugh Thomson with ‘‘Cran-
ford/’ Austin Dobson and the rest.
“When Frank Pape did ‘Jurgen’,’’ said my
friend, “John Lane should have chained
him up and not let him draw any more.”
What, admirable criticism, typical of
a certain class of collector!.' Not satis-
fied with his copy of “Jurgen” being worth
eight, or nine guineas in the market, he
wishes it. were the only Pape book in the
world, when it would be worth perhaps 20.
As to the beautiful "Jurgen” drawings be-
ing Pape’s best—there is in them, certainly,
a freshness, a peculiar personal gusto not
always present in his later work. Rabid
Cabellians will insist on that, which we
may perhaps allow them. But for me, no
chaining up, no rare “Jurgens” at topmost,
prices for the benefit of art speculators! For
me, the joy and delight of more and more
Pape.
Cabell, at, least, is glad his illustrator
was allowed liberty to decorate later books
than “Jurgen,” as he made very clear in
his preface to “Figure's of Earth.” If An-
atole I ranee, ever said or wrote anything as
eloquent and gracious regarding Pape’s en-
lightening interpretations of “La Reine
Pedauque" or “Penguin Island,” the illus-
trator is not aware of it, so I am assured.
But there can be little doubt that the same
opulent conceits, the same burgeoning whim-
seys which delighted Cabell delighted France
too, as they have thousands of others.
A happy circumstance having put me in
touch with Frank Pape recently, I am per-
mitted in consequence to give The Bul-
letin a, little personalia. “In spite of my
name,” writes Frank Pape, “I am English.
I was born in London in 1878. My art
education was gained in France and Ger-
many, and in England. But as to illustrat-
ing, I consider .myself entirely self-taught.
I have come to the conclusion you can
learn from only one person, yourself, when
all other teaching is dropped and forgotten.
One of the hardest jobs is to free yourself
from the _ unconscious influence of. other
people. You hear about stylists I dis-
agree with the stylist, in contradistinction
to the tenderer. An illustrator must be an
actor. He must be able to express any
and every mood and should do so even
in the one b00k... .Versatility should be
one of the chief attributes of an illustrator.
The greatest achievement would be to have
a different mood for each illustration. But
a stylist is a man who always does what
he can do—z.e., what his hand makes him
do. I think the mind should always con-
quer the hand My work has by no
means been confined to the waggish or
ribald type. Before the war I illustrated
numerous fairy-tales and folk-lore books,
and 20 color plates for the Book of Psalms
There is hardly any sort of book that at
one time or another I Pave not illustrated.
... .From this wide range you will see that
it has always been my wish to be versatile.
I can honestly say that otherwise art and
illustrating would bore me.”
An examination of the Pape books will
soon show how truly the illustrator’s work
squares with his ideas and aims. No mis-
take about his versatility and variety of
mood, nor as to the fact that, generally, his
(Continued on page 5.)


*Truth in Advertising” is your assurance and our guarantee of satisfaction
1
j
x
1 1
#8
i
by Anthony . Horderns
/
The fabrics are of the finest quality and the range includes Wool
Suitings in many of the newest shades; guaranteed Indigo Dye
Serge; and Herringbone fabrics. The style, cut and finish meet
the requirements of the most particular man, and the value we
offer is unequalled; also you will receive that personal attention
and interest which is so helpful and gratifying in selecting your
clothing. Every man should take advantage of this offer by
Anthony Horderns* and order early to ensure his Christmas
Suit being ready. If you cannot call, send for patterns and
self-measurement form. Posted free to any address.
Men’s Tailoring Dept.—Ground Floor —We Pay Carriage on Suits.
OPEN UNTIL 9 P.M. EVERY FRIDAY.
Anthony Horderns:
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 27120, G.P,O m


Beauty
Power
V
tf
M
1
El
3
TVa
V
\ *W
The simple, harmonious beauty of line that has
always characterised Hudson and the flash-
ing power that has made Hudson performance
notable, are now combined with an economy of
operation that makes Hudson the outstanding value
of to-day’s automobile market.
New, smarter body designs by internationally famous
custom builders; new brilliance of performance
with the patented “F-Head” motor; new refinements
in the exclusive Super-Six principle which revolu-
tionised automobile design a decade ago—these
advantages are yours in the new Hudson Super-Six
at an economy of purchase price and up-keep cost
that are nothing short of phenomenal
The nearest Hudson-Essex dealer is anxious to show
you Hudson beauty and to let you prove for your-
self the power and economy of the new Hudson
models.
All New Costly
Car Details
Higher radiator with vertical
lacquered radiator shutters.
Wider, heavier mudguards.
Colonial-type headlamps and
saddle-type side lamps.
Four-wheel brakes.
Silenced body construction.
Wider doors, for easy entry and
exit.
Worm and tooth disc design
steering mechanism.
Electro-lock type of theft pro.
tection.
Fine grade patterned mohair up.
holstery.
Wider, higher, form-fitting
seats.
New instrument board, finished
in polished ebony grouping
motometer, ammeter, speedom-
eter, fuel and oil gauges.
Steering wheel of black hard
rubber with steel core, and fin-
ger-sca Hoped.
Horn-button on Steerinsr
,Wheel.
HI UDSON. Suber-Six
HUDSON
127 in. Models.
Standard Sedan . .
Landau Sedan . . ..
7-pass. Sedan
118 in. Models.
Tourer, Colonial Body. .
Coach, American Body
Coupe, „
£550
590
685
445
500
510
Five Balloon
Tyres
Standard
Equipment.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
distributors
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
VVHATMORE, McINTOSH- MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD..
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BTJY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


fd
fd
A Suit To - Measure
for £7/15/-
. . . and at any other time you’d have to pay 9, 10
or 11 guineas! You’ll save from 34/- to 76/- if you
place your order now —and that’s certainly something
worth thinking about! They are suits that excel in
style, cut, finish and material.
SPONGING & PRESSING SERVICE
Leave your suit in your own suit case at our Tailoring
Department by 9.30 a.m. and we will sponge and press
for 3/6 and have it ready for you to take home at 5.30 pm.
DAVID JONES’
Castlereagh, Market, Elizabeth Streets
Branch Men's Store, Opposite G.P.O.
illustration is genuine invention. Not one
plate reveals less than the printed text; most
of them reveal more. They recall what
Goethe said of Delacroix’s lithograph illus-
trations to “Faust”—that he had learned
from a great artist to perceive in his own
work much that had not before come into
his conscious judgment. Which is the surest
test of an illustrator’s worth, and the one
applied to Frank Pape by Cabell himself.
C.M.
This Humor
Cecil Mann and E. M. Edwards will
perhaps pardon an interested onlooker for
returning unasked the ball ot humor they
have between them kicked out of the arena.
Mr. Edwards affirms that humor is the
rarest quality known in literature; Mr.
Mann retorts that, so far from this being
the case, there is scarcely any literature at
all, certainly no good fiction, that is without
it. And he adds an invitation to Mr.
Edwards, or anyone else, to show him a
moderately good novel that is evidence to
the contrary.
Humor is an ingredient very largely used
in the chemistry of the human. One sus-
pects, indeed, that only a Creator with a
very strong sense of humor could have
evolved humanity at all. Few men can be
said to be altogether devoid 1 of it.
Most of us, whether consciously or uncon-
sciously, add to the gaiety of our neighbors.
If we are not actually manufacturers, we
are at least channels of distribution. Yet
there are e xceptions—among books as among
men; both having enormous merit. I have
thought that perhaps Mr. Mann’s case
would be much stronger were he not quite
so definite. For (here are works of fiction
—not moderately good, either; but
supremely good—that have no gleam of
humor whatever. Not many, but some. For
example, what of “Wuthering Heights”? I
hope Mr. Mann would call this “moderately
good.” Indeed, I am sure that he holds it
to be a work of rare genius.
And then, of course, there are so many
shades of humor; and so many shades of
opinion. Would Mr. Mann say that Gals-
worthy’s books held humor? They do, in
my opinion; but it is of so anaemic a
brand as to be scarcely recognisable. Quite
unlike the robust article of, say, H. G.
Wells. Galsworthy’s humor is not apparent,
I should say, to even a tenth of his readers.
But the fact that he has it, even to an
infinitesimal degree, bears out Mr. Mann’s
contention. My own point is that in so
far as that humor is unrecognised by the
majority—whether it is deliberate humor
or not —it cannot truthfully be said to have
any bearing upon the recognition of Gals-
worthy as a novelist of distinction.
BERNARD CRONIN.
Han
When Katharine Susannah Prichard was
in her early youth she wrote a book of
childhood, The Wild Oats of Han (Corn-
stalk Co.). Given out as a children’s book,
it is rather a book of confessions, memories,
reveries, impressions, grouped round the
impish, elvish and inspiring personality of
little Hannah Frances.
Here is, of course, no literal autobiog-
raphy: that must be dismissed at once.
Still, the book shows the kind of world
that was for a few years the setting of
Katharine Prichard’s childhood: a home
almost in the bush, with constant chances
for escape into the bush itself:
Han caua'ht some of the spirit of the morning on
those excursions of hers. The smell of damp earth,
of mosses and ferns and wild violets, elung to her.
She had seen rabbits washing their faces in the
dew.... She had heard the magpies calling, calling,
calling across the mist-steeped valleys.... There was
no taming or training Han if she had been abroad
while the rest of the world was asleep.
That was written 20 years ago. The book
is full of such passages, in which the ex-
pression is rather outrun by the very
genuine feeling. It all shows the writer’s
possession by the bush. But now take
these lines from the opening of a chapter
in “Coonardoo”:
Stars were still in the high dark although the
sky was sheening in the east as a coolwenda called
from the fringe of distant mulga. His two notes
dropped in the silence rang pure and slow far over
the plains.
The preoccupation and the delight are the
same:'the expression, the intensity of im-
pression, have grown out of all knowledge.
But it is extraordinarily interesting to recog-
nise what was latent in “Han.” '
In a short preface, Katharine Prichard
says that some day “Cuckoo Oats” may be
written as a sequel. Han is 12 in’ the last
chapter of the present book. “Cuckoo
Oats.” it seems “are the late crop—oats
which are sown while the cuckoo is calling—
springtime oats.” So the next book would
be a book of adolescence. It will be curious
to compare with Henry Handel Richard-
son’s book of a girl’s adolescence in a Mel-
bourne school, “The Getting of Wisdom.”
LALAGE.
A Fane-Lofting Book
In The Bulletin recently Mr. Lofting
had something to say about the over-
of gloom and tragedy in Aus-
trapin writings: The Happy Vagabond,
by Margaret Fane and Hilary Lofting
(Cornstalk Co.), is an indirect expansion of
that text. The writers emphasise the pre-
valence of that darker, realist, side by
making a book of the purely light. There
is not a heavy thought in it. It is one of
the most light-hearted books ever written
in Australia. That is not to say that it is
one of the best. It is not. One cannot
imagine that it was intended to be. In-
stead, the authors seem to have conspired
and plotted to write something that not
a single soul could possibly take seriously,
and only a dried-up few could not enjoy.
What is called the probable in fiction is
strained to nearly the uttermost limits.
In fact, practically nothing probable hap-
pens, except an occasional motor mishap.
Undoubtedly the happenings of the book
could happen. In life most of them do.
Sunsets that “plagiarise Turner,” and
frequently outdo him. happen weekly. One
speaks to an utter stranger and learns that
he is a blood relation. One overhears a con-
versation in a tram that is of vital personal
importance. A letter is opened accidentally
that changes an entire life. These things
are happening daily in life, and can
be accepted as truth. But they cannot hap-
pen in fiction and ring true. That is one
reason why- nearly every story that is
written from life (a fallacious virtue that
most novices nourish) and nearly all char-
acters that are dravPn from life are false
in fiction. (Another reason, of course, is
that there are degrees of unsuccess in draw-
ing from life.) And because these two
authors concern themselves much with
such happenings they do not hold the mirror
up to life: the art of fiction literature is
the robing of accumulation in the raiment
of individualism.
But to judge this book according to any
such standards would be to reveal either
a colossal stupidity or a total absence of
critical ability. Their book obviously is not
intended as literature. Both have done better
work in that line—are doing it every three
or four weeks in The Bulletin’s Short
Story section: “Little Feller,” of a recent
number, for example. What they have done
here is to stand boldly out and offer Aus-
tralia something new in the way of home-
made ficlion. They have created Thomas.,
Tucker, happy vagabond; a once-rich and
still not exactly poor young man; a hand-
some, likeable chap with a golden tenor voice;
and they have sent him roving about the
Australian bush, hawking books and what-
nots in a sawn-off motor-car, literally singing
for his meals, tuning pianos, mending pots
and pans and making sick animals well. He
carries a dress-suit, in his car, and stays
at places where dress for dinner is the
order. At these places he interests him-
self in such things as love tangles that
will not come right, and brings them right,
and. if that may be said to be doing good,
he does good generally. So the story flows
along, lightly, optimistically, to a happy
end.
The gloom that has been found in Aus-
tralian landscape is transmuted through
the eyes of these authors to loveliness.
They see happiness where others have seen
nothing but hopelessness, and they have
written a book that is cheerful company.
In a literary sense, it is decidedly light
fare; but literature is not to be considered
in it. The book is to be taken as entertain-
ment, and as an antidote after the dismal.
And it is well written, too—quite well
enough to give a semblance of reality even
to its improbability.
A Satchel of Books
Helicon Series (Bodley Head). The latest
additions to these little books of choice
verse are Tennyson’s “A Dream of Fair
Women” and “The Day Dream,” the first
illustrated in line by Agnes Piuder Davis
and the other with strong woodcuts by
Elizabeth Rivers.
Hakluyt's Voyages (Dent.)’. It was in-
tended to use only the English voyages in
this edition, but two volumes, covering the
foreign voyages, have been added, making 10
vols. in all. Excellent introductions by
Ernest Rhys, the quaint drawings of Thomas
1 )errick, and in Vol. X an index to the
whole series make sufficiently good reasons
for the additions, apart altogether from the
charm of old Hakluyt hiro«>»]f
The Modern Case for Socialism , by A.
W. Humphrey (George Allen and Unwin).
Air. Humphrey presents in pre-digested form
the strongest and most elaborate theories
and arguments in favor of socialism. Ho
has done his work well. His book is very
carefully indexed, it is lucid, and it has
solidity. Briefly, the ease is that, with the
trend of commercialism to-day, individual-
ism, which has retarded socialism in the
past, is being gradually stifled; there is less
and less opportunity for the individual to
himself become a capitalist, a circumstance
that will eventually bring about the over-
throw of Capital, and the reorganisation
of humanity into profit-sharing guilds. How
individualism will then be prevented from
re-asserting itself Mr. Humphrey does not
say. What he and the Utopia-dreamers who
inspire him overlook is that men are human,
and that ambition, individualism, in fact,
selfishness, is a human verity.
Articles do Paris, by Sisley Huddleston
(Methuen). Mr. Huddleston here reveals
himself as one of the choice essayists of
the world. His prose style can be faulted,
for verse lines are common in it; for ex-
ample, the lines “curling like the water of a
sunlit stream,” “while the beard lay in
ripples on the breast” and “the pleasant
smile that played in the corners of the
lips al] appear in the first brief paragraph.
Bui on the whole the style is much more
restrained and much purer prose, and not
<>nc of the essays is written us so many
essays obviously are —because the writer
feels an urge to “do an essay.” He ranges
freely up and down France, among the trees
on the Boulevard, the vineyards of the Bor-
deaux, looks in upon Clemeneeau in retire-
ment, upon Anatole France at his death
dips appreciatively into James Joyce’s
“Ulysses,” into the work of Hugo and Mau-
passant. and altogether makes a book that
has a. rare cosmopolitan flavor, and which
while it is light, delicate and brilliant, has
also solidity. *
Answers to Correspondents.
A T o notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Pinjat: We’d forgive your spelling if
you’d say something worth spelling badly. . . .J.R.T.:
Too confused.... Sable: Story falls so flat you
might sell it for a speedway.... Mulga B.:
Can’t tell you the exact date, but seeing
that Hugliie was a small boy when the
story opens and already (as far as it has got)
has a daughter of 30 at least, it evidently was in
the 'nineties.... Barcoo (U.S.A.) : Sorry, discussion
buried months ago Herbert D.: Not quite credible.
. ...E.F.8.: Not enough in it to distinguish it
from the crowd.... Fibro: Sorry it won’t burn.
....Starry: Sound sense, anyway, even if you don’t
put it very brightly. .. .H.B. (Vic.): Aou haven't
made us believe it’s true. .. .Geebar: And we can't
swallow that, either W.E.D.: But why mis-
represent your opponent? He didn’t propose “the
exclusion of the Air Force”... .H.L.: No room for
them in this menagerie... .G.0.L.: Uninteresting
treatise L.M.: You make heavy going of it....
E.H.: Like many another, you nourish the fallacy
that writing an .essay consists in saying nothing
indefinitely... . E.Sf.: All that about some crude ads. 1
. ...A.G.: No more room in that arena... .H.J.W.:
Bulky and uninteresting. .. .Don G.: A thing that
long would have to be dashed g00d.... M.L.: You
sometimes begin well, but you always end lamely.
. ...J.C.11.: Have at ’em: —
Poverty will hit you, blistering your virgin sight,
Pomp and stinking glory demonstrating ugly might.
Son o' mine, remember if these sights offend your
eyes,
Cheaters, fools and dirty liars often win the prize.
....Baa-baa: Blah-blah, rather... .Y.R.: You read
as if you bad been educated in a picture-show....
R.W.K.: Nlushv generalities... .E.V.F.: Correct
enough ver.-c, but pale as a junket’s ghost... .F.C.D.:
There are two downhill ages in a poor verse-writer’s
life —when he thinks lie can beat Omar, and when
he parodies Omar E.F.: They are poorer than
an out-of-work actor....P.P.: W.p.b A. 11.: You
do the birds an injustice. ...P.H.: Like a steam-
roller on an up-grade Take-all: You spoil a good
case... .Bolvpe: Your view of the sea might have
been captured bv a Swiss albatross... .W.S.F.: Your
muse would be better if you smashed her stilts... .
P.J.T.: Verse slender; treatment invisible... .L. 1).:
Afraid you must join “those men of verse and
rhyme, whose lot is nothing but hard jibes and
sneers”.... Faust: A fairy in heavy b00t5.... Cent.:
Not worth one... .Alf Alpha: Take it personally to
an editor. But first communicate with a coroner.
\us.: Once in 50 years we are tempted to
say that a poet deserves to be burnt to a. steak;
it’s your turn.... Hatter: Not practical enough....
M. O’R.Trite enough, certainly... .Orthodox: It
doesn’t appeal to us; in fact we find a difficulty
in understanding what it is all about. .. .Janette B.:
That yarn, in one form .or another, has appeared in
print a hundred times... .AViskie: A very inferior
brand.... R.W.: Can’t find the humor... .Apex: You
can’t .rhyme “trousers” and “bruises”—not even in
a panegyric on fast bowler Gregory... .R.R.: Idea
deserves better treatment... .P.J.R.: You don’t make
it toothsome .. . .M.C.C.: More roaming than romance.
L.K.M. : To create a mystery but leave it unsolved
makes the reader thirst for your blood F.L.!
Just one pen-picture of Bill “blowing his nose as
most men do when sentiment is too strong for lough
men’’ L.C.S. : Net “rubbing it in”—rubbing .t
out C.L.F.: Dan dismissed “with a tall gesture.”
L.W.: Locked out J.N.: You*say “the yarn is
all bull”; we say it’s a cow of a yarn... . F.U.D.:
Funeral ode buried with corpse... .S.Y.D A.; Outcast
will have to find another home.. . . L.T.: An also
ran. .. . Spero: Some promise, but take more care
with your work; slapdash stuff never gets anywhere.
.. . . Prospero: Rather ecstatic, but not all bad....
A.l’.R.: Your spring song is a bit too dusty and
its grammar could do with a spring-cleaning....
E.C.F.; Can’t aceept it if Johanna did....G.T.:
Yarns about ghosts at. waterholes have been dread-
fully overdone. .. .W.E.8.: Very commonplace story.
. ...P.J.8.: Reading your script had the effect of
“producing serious symptoms of over-complexity in
the spectatorial emotions” —a sample of your amazing
style. .. .AV.S.F.: No nests for wild geese here....
L.N.D.: Hang on to the crowbar for the present,
but try again J.A.: Too Victorian. You take
over 80 words to describe a kiss... .Faust; Let us
forget—if we can... .Elizabeth U.: Tale of Timmins
tossed out... .Afrikaans: Quite true. During the
Australian bank crisis in 1893 Rhodes, then Cape
Premier, offered to invest his Government’s balance
in N.S.W. or Vic. securities or to make it avail-
able as a loan. The reply was a grateful refusal. ...
H.R.S.: “The Punter’s Dream” is a perennial pest. ...
Gadfly: Fairly well done, but idea as ancient as
Chloris... .N.P.M.; “Rubaiyat” goctli out by the
same door as in it came... .S.C.: You haven t
improved on Poe A.J.J.: “Grey Days” not very
popular here.... J.D.; Your “Rain” might have been
written by a watering-can... .L.L.L.: Is it a
song or an endurance test?... .E.F.: Have read
nearly as bad in the obituary columns... .L.McM.:
An idea sadly manled... .R.L.E.; Will you copy it
out 10,000 times backwards by way of punishment?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.G.: Wooden. Give up Art and go in for
sleeper-splitting... .T.M.: Your nude is worse than
the worst we could imagine about the worst imagin-
able woman A.K.; Do you mean that for Bruce?
. ...P.E.E.: Short-skirt joke given short shrift....
George IJ.: Jokes fair; drawings nightmares. .. ,
A.H.W.; Cricket idea right off the wicket... .A.H.:
Impossible people sitting at an impossible table
would naturally make an impossible joke... .N.C.A.:
One thing we liked about the sketch—the word
BAR was done nicely.... ILF.O. •: Faint humor....
Zelle P.: The infants do not charm.... Jack M.:
Haven’t got. ’em yet. .. .Mudmaps: What’s the idea?
Think we get stories written round illustrations?....
P.S.A.: Your friends are a merry lot if they thought
those things funny... .8.L.G.: What’s the seven-
legged horse doing?. .. .M.A.8.; It isn’t a drawing
merely a blot.


G
-V
J
-
V
t * j
..:■■■
««s
fti .''■'■•>■
fd


The Bulletin
Vol. 49.—N0. 2544.
November 14, 1928.
“GENTLEMEN! THE LADIES!”
The women’s vote in the American Presidential election has ensured a further term for Prohibition.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
21} George Street, Sydney.
Victoria : It’,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 2}9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Soui ii Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : S 6 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
la™ [l ANV ADDIIESS IN AUSTRALASIA,
Smooths 12 7s months ’ * 1 * S -J 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
r address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.:
' months, los. tid.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Fih- n °m n ,oopifs.—-Common wealth, New Zealand and
J'V ld - United Kingdom: !,oz. to ltjoz., lid.:
Urdu , dd i nal IIOZ -’ ld - AU Sea I{ oute: lr ’OZ; Hd.
a. - par ‘
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES 2 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS ” ’
A PAGE DRAWING BY LEASON ” “ *
EDITORIAL .. .. g - 7
ANDY FISHER’S GHOST .. . . 8
The Singapore Base
The Referendum—Yes! 8
Thank Heaven, That’s Paid!
—A cartoon by Percival .. .. .. 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) .. .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11
PERSONAL ## ’ 14
Theodore
—Drawn by Harry Julius .. .. .. 14
“The Return of the Prodigal”
—A cartoon by Scorfield 15
POVERTY POINT .... 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.).'. "17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
QUEENSLAND FORESTS, LTD. .. is
South British Insurance .. ..18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 23, 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT >5
MAN ON THE LAND .. 28 29
SMOKE-OH ’ 32
PEN AND PICTURE .. .. . . 37
NEW MOVIES !! 37
Sporting (illustrated) .. 39, 41, 42
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 44
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 40
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
“COONARDOO” .. .. 34, 57, 58
COMPLETE STORIES—
“Out of the Dark”
—By Jack Mathicu and James Devaney 51, 53
“OTATARE”
—By Musetta Morel 1 . . . . .. 55
VERSE 53, 55
TTie'^ullcijvn
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1928.
ANDY FISHER’S GHOST.
If conditions were normal and the Oppo-
sition looked reasonably intelligent and
showed some sense of responsibility.
Saturday’s general election would prob-
ably result in a change of Government.
The man who is out can do better,
always and everywhere, than the one who
is in, and the Bruce-Pages have been
in for just on six years. Bruce
himself is a rather considerable figure, and
so is Page, who has come on greatly during
the last year or two, though Nationalist
newspapers do not bother to mention it—he
has always had a “bad press.” But
Pratten was the only other outstanding
Minister, and Pratten is dead, nor has his
place been filled. To the credit of the
Administration are the building of the
10.000-ton cruisers; the sale of the disastrous
steamers now paying port dues and taxes
and free from strikes; the attempts, tardy
as they were, to restore democratic control
of unions infested with Communists and
frustrate the periodical holdups of shipping
by lawless mobs; and the agreement for
taking over the State debts. On the other
hand, the Government has been guilty of
starving the C.M.F. and the Air Force,
and it has a weakness for meddling in purely
provincial matters and dabbling in pious
aspirations such as Freetrade with Britain.
Long as it has been in office, it still pro-
duces the impression of being a Govern-
ment of amateurs. It has a great deal to
learn about electioneering; by neglecting
to call in the Electoral Commissioners to
alter the N. S. Wales and Vic. constituen-
cies, made grotesquely lopsided by the growth
of population in Nationalist districts, it
has probably presented the Opposition with
half a dozen seats.
* * * *
But the only alternative to Bruce-Page
is Scullin-Theodore. And until the
Scullin-Theodore party acquires a spine—
or is it a conscience?—any Government it
could form would be a calamity. The
Scullins and Theodores call themselves
Labor, and assert that “the party is the
same as it was when Andrew Fisher led
it.” That this is a glaring falsehood The
Bulletin calls Andy’s ghost to witness.
Fisher introduced the compulsory military
training scheme; Scullin says he will do
away with it. Fisher ordered the battle-
cruiser Australia, and its arrival was one of
the great days of his life; the arrival of
Australia 11. was the occasion for a sneer-
ing attack in the Scullin-Theodore cam-
paign newspaper. Scullin's “defence
policy” is disarmament, tempered by a half-
hearted promise to prepare for war when
war has broken out. In Fisher's day White
Australia was the leading article in the
Labor creed, and by calling the C.M.F. and
the R.A.N. into existence he showed that
he was prepared to defend it. The Scullins
and Theodores faintly profess their devotion
to White Australia, but they were meekly
silent when the Australian Council of Trade-
unions associated itself with the Shanghai-
Moscow concern which aims at “breaking
down all racial barriers.” Fisher founded
the Commonwealth Bank; Scullin would
transform that institution into “a people’s
bank.” He never explains this cryptic
observation, but a boisterous follower said
in Parliament “We all believe in the
nationalisation of credit”; and that means
control of bank funds —all bank funds—by
politicians, who never forget their friends
and constituents. This is too much like
Bolshevism to be pleasant, and so is the
Scullin party’s cowardly surrender to the
mob whenever the mob asserts itself.
* * * *
Nor has the Scullin party been faithful
to the Fisher tradition in the matter of
Protection. It makes a great parade of
Protectionist sentiments, but the fact re-
mains that it is supporting disgruntled
Agrarians of the Foreign-trade persuasion
against men who voted for (lie Pratten
policies. Hopeless of a party majority (it
failed to nominate for 17 seats in the
House of Reps, and one in the Senate), it
is willing to govern by the grace of
Stewart and other Cocky Freetraders or
Low-Tariffists, the idea being that these
persons may secure the balance of power.
The Bruce-Page crowd has no blameless
record on the Tariff issue, or any other, but
it has some regard foi 1 principle and for the
honor and safety of Australia. Above all,
it doesn’t take its economic policy from
Moscow, or its racial policy from Shang-
hai, nor does it imagine that it is living
in a world peopled by copybook theorists.
LOOKING FOR TROUBLE.
Parliaments have done more during the
past seven years to create than to prevent
industrial strife. And the position grows
steadily worse. At the root of the trouble
is the existence of two sets of industrial
courts in the one field; and it has been
aggravated in N. S. Wales during the last
year or two by the coupling of so-called
family endowment with the basic wage-
one of the achievements of the Lang Gov-
ernment, probably moving more or less
blindly on a string held by that well-
meaning but very dangerous person known
in the best Labor circles as “good old
Piddo/' Working on the lines laid down
by the Lang law, it is understood that the
Industrial Commission of which “good old
Piddo” is president will fix the basic wage
at £3 145., while Federal awards are made on
a basic wage of £4 10s. a week. Thus, as
discovered and announced by Mr. Pid-
dington himself, “unless action is taken by
[the N.S.W.] Parliament, that half of the
industrial arbitration zone regulated by
State awards will receive wages on a foot-
ing of 16s. a week less than workers under
Federal awards.” It is true that the great
disparity is capable of explanation more or
less satisfactorily, but no explanation in the
world will satisfy the ill-educated, who let
cunning vote-hunters do all their thinking
for them, that there is not some great in-
justice hidden here.
* * * +
While Mr. Piddington was comparing the
two basic wages, so provocative of unrest and
disorder, the Prime Minister was talking at
Ballan (Vic.)'of the waterside riots in Mel-
bourne. “His Government,” he said, “de-
plored the spectacle of law-abiding citizens
being bombed and stoned. The Hogan 1
Government had been recreant to its trust
in allowing such crimes to be committed,
and the Federal Government would use
every power it had to combat mob rule
and intimidation.” But the position under
our remarkable Constitution is that the
National Government has, in effect, no
power to do anything at all in the matter.
Section 119 only allows the Federal Gov-
ernment to begin to protect a State “against
domestic violence on the application of
the executive of the State.” All the States
pride themselves on their sovereign rank,
and there are obvious political reasons why
a State with a Labor Government is not
going to ask a Federal Nationalist Gov-
ernment for help in an industrial disturb-
ance—more especially with a general election
on. So for upwards of a week in Mel-
bourne—to mention only one great Aus-
tralian city—a thousand or more rioters
interfered with inter-State trade and com-
merce and foreign trade (both the concern
of the Commonwealth), and threatened to
create international “incidents” (also a
Commonwealth liability), and the Com-
monwealth could do nothing but whimper
about it and utter meaningless threats.
* * * *
The position is right into the hands of the
Reds, who are concentrating on the dislo-
cation of sea-borne trade everywhere, and
helps to explain the phenomenon, so be-
wildering to foreigners, of Australia being
a “home of strikes”—Australia, with about
the most benign climate and the highest
standards of comfort, health and education
in the world! It can be ended only by re-?
moving industrial legislation entirely from
the province of State Governments. It is
not possible for the States to deal effectively
with dismites extending over more than one
State, so Federal authority must come into
the matter. And one authority being in
we shall' never have industrial rest till the
other is kept out. Simultaneously, how-
ever, the Federation must be clothed with
powers sufficient to support its authority.
THE SINGAPORE BASE.
Within a few weeks of a recent announce-
ment that “the big dry dock scheme at
Singapore had been shelved” came an official
denial of the Washington rumors, along
with news that a contract for the complete
base and defences had been let for
£7,500,000, work to be completed inside
seven years. It may do Australians good
to know that not only is the base not going
to be abandoned, but it is to become the
nucleus of a force which, in accordance
with Imperial strategy, is gradually being
moved eastward.
Already we have in China five new Kent
class cruisers—sister ships of the Australia
—and almost at its destination as I write
is the huge floating dock capable of hold-
ing not merely the 35,000-ton Nelson, but
the much bigger Hood, which with other
battle-cruisers and the Courageous, largest
of our aircraft carriers, well-informed naval
opinion expects to be sent to the Far East
in the near future. And this is but the
advance force, for it is backed up in the
Mediterranean by the pick of our capital
ships, where they have been moved ready
to rush eastward in support, with half the
journey from Home completed.
Recognition of the fact that Britain’s
danger at home is chiefly from the air is
at the bottom of this plan. The air
menace, which is very real to an island
like Britain, within easy reach of many coun-
tries, can be best met by the R.A.F. and
ground defences; but John Bull’s wealth
—indeed his very life—lies to such a vast
extent in his oversea trade and ships that
no Government would be tolerated which
neglected to safeguard these interests. So
the R.N., needed more than ever on the
trade routes and outskirts of Empire, is not
likely to be neglected.
Since the war a great part of the navy
has been freed from the necessity of guard-
ing the narrow seas, so that without any
immense commitments there are ample
capital ships in existence; it is the less
costly cruisers which are now needed. Hence
the insistence of the British delegation at
Geneva recently on their cruiser ratio, for
aircraft without cruisers do not afford a
safe guarantee to ocean commerce.
Great flights have been made by Kings-
ford Smith, Ferrarin and the North Atlan-
tic fliers in what are really winged petrol
tanks; but these flights bear no resemblance
to practicable attack or defence of mid-
ocean trade routes, such as vitally concern
us. Military ’planes, suitably equipped, can
cover at best 800 to 1000 sea miles total
journey. Therefore they must be con-
veyed to within 500 miles of the scene of
action; for nations cannot afford to lose
100 per cent, of machines in every operation
by non-returns. Shore bases round Aus-
tralia may certainly protect the nearest 500
miles of our communications, but what
enemy is going to come within that radius
when ’plane carriers and Emdens would
enable him to act at will outside it?
Aircraft alone are not capable of doing
useful military service at all times, in all
weathers and for the long periods during
which constant watch must be maintained
against an enemy who can choose his own
time to attack. For attack or defence, in-
vasion. or convoy they must act in co-
operation with surface ships, and then they
are undoubtedly of great value. Each ser-
vice has its part to play, and the importance
of air bases has not been neglected by those
responsible; the “Southampton” Far East
flight to and around Australia was the first
instalment of a regular air garrison at Singa-
pore. But cruisers, preferably with recon-
naissance ’planes as well as carriers, must
be used, too, for the latter are necessarily
lightly armed and could be blown sky high
by, say, an Australia, if unsupported.
From every aspect, then, ships are still
the basis of any operations involving the
attack or defence of an isolated country like
Australia.
CHINA STATION.
SEAGULL.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Vote “Yes.”
A referendum will be held on polling day,
and it is estimated that only about one
elector in 100 has taken the trouble to
learn what it is about. The vote will be
large, nevertheless, because it will be com-
pulsory. If the result is the usual “No ”
that may be because many electors think it
safer not to go in for anvthing new until
they know what the new thing means; and
unfortunately they may perish of old age
without knowing any more than they do
now. However, there are people who will
take a chance if some one tells them to.
The Bulletin tells them most definitely to
vote “Yes.”
It is proposed that the Commonwealth
shall take over the entire State debts now
approaching £700,000,000, and shall contri-
bute towards interest each year a sum equal
to the last Federal subsidy to the States
Ihe rest of the interest it will collect from
the State Governments if it can, and if the
Commonwealth can’t it must do the best it
can. If the referendum vote is “No,” the
States are liable to be left with their debts
and to receive nothing, for the 255. per
head subsidy has already been abolished.
To arrive at such a loss through a mixture
of ignorance, foolishness and the habit of
being a nark would be regrettable.
It is further proposed that Commonwealth
and States shall jointly contribute to a
sinking fund for the reduction of present
and future State debts. To vote “No” and
thus tell the Federal authority to keep its
contribution might be heroic, but it would
be unwise. The Federal Treasury wears a
lean and hungry look, so the next offer
might be long in coming, and be a poor
apology for the present one when it arrived.
The remaining proposal of importance is
that representatives of the States and the
Commonwealth shall form a permanent
Loan Council, and that borrowing shall be
done in concert and by mutual agreement,
until such time as Australia has the courage
and the sense to make a voluntary end of
the wretched loan practice, or until the prac-
tice ends itself. Such an arrangement may
tend to a certain restraint in the national
dissipation, but it can’t lead to the countiy
going faster into debt, for there is no visible
available extra debt to go faster into.
In the circumstances, an overwhelming
and unparalleled majority in favor of the
proposals is a small thing to ask.
♦
President-elect Hoover.
The U. S. Democratic party is very like
cur Labor party in important respects, and
has much the same difficulties to contend
with, especially in Federal politics. It is
strong in the cities and weak in the coun-
try. It has a Tammany taint from which
it cannot or will not shake itself free.
And though there were elements which
acted nobly, it was, in the main, tried
and found wanting during a great war.
Although 63 years have elapsed since the
surrender of Lee’s army, the South has not
forgiven Sherman’s march. Neither has
the North forgotten that in the closing
months of the great struggle the Democrats
fought an election on a programme which
declared the war a failure and virtually
demanded peace with the return of slavery
ancj Southern supremacy. (Even so did our
Labor party declare, at the very outset of
Foch’s triumphant offensive, that “the
Allies could not beat the Central Powers”
and that there would have to be “a peace
without annexations or indemnities,” while
graciously allowing that the question of
reinforcing the A.I.F. might be put to the
vote.) With 10 slave States excluded and
the news of victories coming in every day,
Lincoln’s popular majority over McClel-
lan was only 411,428 (the voting was
2,213,665 to 1,802,237), and soldiers in the
field supplied a good part of it.
There have been only two Democratic
Presidents in 67 years. Certainly Cleve-
land and Wilson had second terms, but
neither would have been elected in the
first instance but for a Republican split.
In the late contest the Democrats made his-
tory by nominating an R.C., the son of an
Irish immigrant. He is a very attractive
figure, but he failed badly, though no
worse, all things considered, than Davis
did four years ago. Religious prejudice
apparently swelled the vote against him,
and this is a pity; but observers are
agreed that it was not so much of a handi-
cap as his anti-prohibitionism. For good
or ill the U.S.A. is wedded to its great
experiment, and the ideal must be respected,
although the means will never find favor
on this continent.
The result is of special interest to Aus-
tralians, since Hoover is the only winner of
a Presidential election who has lived in
the Commonwealth. He moved among
our best pioneering types, and lately ex-
pressed to The Bulletin, through which he
has kept more or less in touch with us, a
lively interest in the people and the country.
In him the Americans have added a man
of splendid character and ability to their
illustrious line of Presidents.
♦
The Famine Which Isn’t in England.
Dear Bulletin, —The article by Francis
Jackson (B. 31/10/’2B) on the alleged
British famine calls for comment.
The statement that “countries like
France and Belgium, which have re-
pudiated a portion of their debt by
means of a depreciated coinage and
standard of exchange, are comparatively
free from the problem of unemploy-
ment” may be qualified by the fact
that the Belgian debt has doubled since
January, 1920 (mostly through borrowing
abroad), and the French.debt has more than
doubled in the same time, the rise in the
latter case being from 240,000,000,000 to
506,000,000,000 francs. Even if this loan
boom is partly excused by the cost of re-
construction, it ought to explain a lot of
bogus prosperity while it lasts. Britain’s
debt is much the same as in 1920 and less
than in 1924. The nation hasn’t been rais-
ing the wind abroad; instead, out of ite
famine it has been lending abroad.
It is best not to give way to grief be-
cause in England “even the great railways
are insecure; they have ceased to pay divi-
dends and will soon cease to be authorised
security for trust funds.” Even in the
ruinous year of the strike (1926), when the
Cold Country was importing coal at a
great price, the railways of Britain and
Northern Ireland paid an average of £3
12s. per cent. (£41,900,000) on actual capital
invested in construction, and this after pay-


THANK HEAVEN, THAT’S PAID!
“‘Jupp’ Gardiner, for over 30 years a Labor member, is opposing Mr. Theodore in Dailey. He points out that, though one A.LT. conference repudiated Communism,
another resolved that, while the policy and the methods of the Communist party and the A.L.P. are at variance, the objectives are identical.
JUPP GARDINER: “Hey, Bill, there’s that damned Communist party gone off with your missus.”
BILL LABOR: “Oh, has he, the brute! Well, I’ll soon fix him. I’LL REPUDIATE HIM!”
ing £7,500,000 of rates and taxes from which
Australian lines are exempt.
There is a widespread impression that
British land industries are out of gear. Still
by the latest figures England and Wales
had 25,590,000 acres under crop or cow-
pasture. The total area is 37,100,000 acres,
and for a mining and manufacturing country
with 670 people to accommodate on each
square mile, the figures aren’t so bad. Eng-
land and Wales, at least, have a larger
percentage of their space under crops and
permanent pasture than either France or
Belgium. And the stock of animals is in-
creasing—not the other way about. To have
3,000,000 more sheep in 1927 than in 1923,
and also more cattle and pigs, was better
than nothing. Again, exports were worth
£51,000,000 more in 1927 than in the year
before. So perhaps all is not lost.
It is difficult to be an absolute skeleton
where £45,000,000 per annum is doled out
in charity, and it is no utter skeleton of a
country which pays all that and yet floats
no loans abroad. Unfortunately registra-
tion for the dole keeps the number of
recipients, men and women and male and
female flappers, always in view. Australia
gets some confused idea of its position from
the records of unemployed trades unionists
which union secretaries supply, if so in-
clined. The most recent available return
said that out of 416,827 members of 363
unions. 46,656 qualified for a place on the
workless list, not including strikers and
locked-outs. The six States also spent
£36,683,177 of loans, largely foreign, on
alleged public works in 1926-27, and some
of that was dole pure and simple. The
British position may be rotten, but it is
hardly unique.
Should the Baldwin Ministry go out, it
may do so, as prophesied, because of its
failure to find a remedy for unemployment.
Still, the fact stands to its credit that it
made the best effort on record to do some-
thing big when it went to the country on
the tariff issue. As a consequence it lost
its j ob to Ramshackle MacDonald, the
man who had the brilliant idea of facilitat-
ing loans of British money to the bankrupt
and criminal Soviet push.—Yours, James
Edmond.
♦
The Vote-hunters.
Australia wants nothing else so badly as
to be saved from its politicians, from Prime
Minister Bruce downwards; and The Bul-
letin grows more and more convinced that
its chief job in life is to stand between the
pack and the people whom they would
despoil.
There is probably no man of any standing
in Tasmania who would not freely admit
that with a population of some 200,000 and
a debt of over 25 millions, involving a first
charge for interest each year of over a
million, the financial position is one demand-
ing great caution and strict economy. Above
all, the overburden of debt should not be
added to unless definite economic return
could be looked for. Further, the railways
show no glimmer of hope of being profit-
earning, and the transfer of traffic to the
roads has brought another costly drain on
the annual revenue.
With these two facts so obvious, the late
Government yielded to local clamor and
embarked on the construction of a road
from Hobart to Queenstown at a cost which
will probably total over £200,000. The
clamor came from Queenstown, which wants
its motor outlet, and from Hobart, which
hopes to get some trade. It was bolstered
up by a sheaf of false statements as to
land value and timber and mineral resources.
No report whatever was secured from any
engineer as to the truth of those state-
ments, and one after the other they have
been shown to emanate from the imagina-
tion of politicians and interested parties.
The road passes over some of the most deso-
late and forbidding country in Tasmania.
The old Overland Track, which was a good
horse track with bridges and camps, dropped
into disuse because no profit could be
derived from the land it passed through.
No heavy trade can follow it, since there
will still be the cheaper water and rail car-
riage from Melbourne. Some tourist traffic
may come, but Tasmania offers such choice
of road trips in the more congenial climate
east of the Central Plateau that the econo-
mic value of this will be small.
Assess the cost of it. Some £lO,OOO to
start with for interest on the first outlay.
Upkeep to motor standard—without which
the road is useless—may be taken at about
£lOO per mile per annum; considering the
rainfall and the elevation, this is probably
too low. There are about 80 miles of
road before any other considerable traffic
would join, making an annual liability for
this road of some £BOOO, or £lB,OOO with
interest.
The whole business is just another in-
stance of plausible optimism masking wicked
extravagance.
4
Discipline in the Navy.
“Boomi” : Not for years was a Bulletin
par. so discussed by naval ratings as that
of “X.N.0.” in the issue of September 26.
And now the subject has been revived by
some happenings on the Australia.
“X.N.0.” upholds the sentence of 90
days’ imprisonment in Long Bay passed
on a stoker aboard the Brisbane for the
offence of joking at the quality of the
ship’s bread by attaching a piece of it to
the ship’s notice board. “X.N.0.” is, of
course, an ex-naval officer, and, equally of
course, after a term of years as a naval
officer his mentality is such that argument
is useless in his case; but he can rest assured
that his confreres will not have the power
mtich longer to deal with men as was done
in the case in question.
It is not Bolshevism or mutiny, but plain
commonsense, that treatment cannot be
meted out to men in 1928 such as was the
case even 20 years ago. “X.N.O.’s” not far
distant predecessors foresaw the disinteg-
ration of the British Navy when they were
no longer allowed to trice a man up and
flog him practically at their own sweet
will, and, before that, other naval officers
prophesied national ruin because they could
no longer both flog and hang. Similarly, I
know a charming old person (also an
X.N.0.) who foresees the dissolution of the
Empire because lower-deck ratings in the
new cruiser Australia are allowed baths and
recreation-room. Even as Australia is Aus-
tralia, not because of, but in spite of, her
political leaders, so the Navy (both R.N.
and R.A.N.) has always won through on
account of its men and in spite of its
leadership.
Manv of the old regulations and punish-
ments must be laid away with the lash and
the triangle,, and the Blighs and the
Collards are becoming recognised as being
no more essential to our national well-
being than the Gardens and the Johnsons.
♦
The Splashitup-Gobung Railway.
In the one-third of the financial year that
is past the public income of N. S. Wales
was £57,541 more than for the correspond-
ing period of 1927. But expenditure was
£512,543 more, so outgoings grow nine times
faster than income, and that spoils the pic-
ture. The net return from business under-
takings, mostly railways, has diminished by
£164,696, and , that means a change of
£494,088 for the worse over the entire year
if the movement continues in full force,
which it may not. Interest on loan moneys,
raised to pay for the establishment of busi-
ness and unbusinesslike undertakings, cost
£196,839 more than during the July-October
section of 1927. The signification is that
the position will be another £590,517 worse
at the end of the year if the movement con-
tinues in full force, and the interest move-
ment always does; in fact, it gathers force.
If the Bavin-Stevens Ministry contrives
by hard extortion to fill the gap this year,
the almost-certainty remains that it will
have a further gap to fill in 1929-30, the
interest trouble being the main cause, and
harder extortion will be called for. In the
ordinary progress of events extra-special
extortion will be wanted in 1930-31.
Yet the conviction always remains in the
public mind that the Splashitup-Gobung
railway, leading nowhere in particular and
booked as an assured loss, must be built.
It stands for Progress.
The Ma State has 49 railways or railway
sections on which it loses money, and 27
on which it loses so much money that it
would save a quarter-million or so per
annum by closing them up, though the
interest on the loan capital would still have
to be paid. Last year, for instance, the
Treasury would have been £31,307 better
off if the Demondrille-Blayney line had
been closed, and £105,856 better off if it
had never been built. That is to say if it
had never been built with loan money. The
gag goes that the 3374 miles of money-
losing lines “pay indirectly by opening up
the country,” but the indirect gain can’t be
found and the direct loss is visible to every
eye. The 26 worst cases are scraps aver-
aging 40 miles apiece with no definite pro-
mise of being other than dead-enders. And
when it is possible for four of these, com-
bined measurement 21£ miles, to earn
£22,196 in 12 months, at a cost of £66,024
in working expenses and £21,027 interest,
there is little doubt about the absurdity of
scrappy branch and cockspur lines, and of
the Public Works Committee of uninformed
politicians which authorises them. That
nefarious institution should be suspended.
And, as already mentioned, N. S. Wales
isn’t worse than the average.
4
An ex-Canon on Immigration.
An ex-canon of Brisbane lately gave London
a report on Australia. This was one of his
conclusions:—
“By a policy of restriction and exclusive-
ness Australia is losing some of the best
blood and brains that Britain can offer.
Our young manhood is going to Argentina
and elsewhere, and competing against Aus-*
tralia instead of being partners and sharers
in the development of her prosperity.”
This goes to show that a man may know
all the ancient Hittites and Jebusites by
sight, and be able to tell whether Jonah’s
whale was furnished or unfurnished, ,and
yet be loose on political problems.
The British emigrant doesn’t go to Argen-
tina very much, and he comes to Australia
in fair numbers. A net gain of 48,924 in
1927 looks encouraging. The restrictions
are not so mucS on people coming as on
them doing enough work to “pay for their
keep when they have come. In July and
August, 1928, the Commonwealth imported
£7,745,882 more than it exported in pay-
ment, and if the process keeps up at even
half that rate the whole year will result
in Australia having gone over 23 millions
in debt to deprive itself of that value in
employment. And as it should provide
some 30 millions’ worth of surplus exports
to pay interest with, whereas it provides
nothing, it will have sacrificed 53 millions’
worth of employment, and bought leafing
and crime and discontent and debt with
the sacrifice.


SHELL
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
POLITICAL
POINTS
One reason why there should be a thump-
ing Yes majority at Saturday’s referendum
is that it will enable the Commonwealth to
abolish the swindle of tax-free loans. More
than five years ago the Premiers in confer-
ence resolved that “interest on all loans issued
after December 31, 1923, should be subject
to both Commonwealth and State taxation.”
But it was necessary that the Common-
wealth and all the States should pass validat-
ing legislation, and N. S. Wales and West-
ralia have not done so, so the flagrant busi-
ness goes on. The power asked for will put
the national authority in the way of getting
this urgent reform adopted in spite of State
narks.
Ex-Premier Jack
Verran had a rough
spin in South Aus.
after the conscrip-
tion business, and
his luck did not
change till August
last year; then the
State Nationalists
(or Liberals), being
in control of the
Parliament at Adel-
aide, sent him to
Canberra to succeed
the late Senator
McHugh. Now they
are running him for
the Senate election
along with A. W.
Robinson (also a
nominee Senator)
and Edward Lucas,
some-time Agent-
General. The three
mre finding the going
father heavy, but.
Jack Verran.
win or lose, the cheerful old Cousin Jack will
continue to enjoy life and Oswald Pryor’s
drawings.
There are no Labor nominees in 17 of the
75 House of Reps, electorates, nor is the
Opposition contesting all of the 19 vacancies
in the Senate. This means that, even in the
wildly improbable event of Scullin’s crowd
capturing the House of Reps., there can be
no elected majority of Labor Senators, the
party having failed to get one Labor Senator
in three years ago. The late Fisher would
have scorned to let a Senate seat go by
default; and, as for House of Reps, electo-
rates, there were 71 pledged Labor candidates
in 1910 and 72 in 1913, in addition to good
Labor friends like Bill Lyne. “It’s the same
old party that it was in Fisher’s day,” except
that its wits have gone woolgathering and
its heart has descended to its boots.
During recent years two new capitals have
been built besides Canberra. The Indian
Government shifted its political centre from
Calcutta to a newly-built annexe to old Delhi.
As the population of Delhi has increased by
about 100,000 the change seems to have been
successful. At Angora, moreover, the Turkish
Government is said to have created a respect-
able city (population 75,000) on the site of a
herd of goats and other venerable remains.
When the Ministry moved in it had mostly to
camp out. Possibly ’Berra began on too
grandiose a scale.
Big-hearted Donald
Cameron has been Bris-
bane’s M.H.R. for nine
years, and the Labor
Opposition does not ex-
pect to beat - him on
Saturday, although in
journalist Frank Burke
it has no mean candi-
date. The pair had a
previous argument six
years ago, when the
Light Horseman’s
majority was 1234;
this he increased to
4101 in 1925, Jack
Fihelly being the Labor
man. Cameron, who
was born in the elector-
ate, has a great
ing among the Diggers
and the S’African War
veterans —he served
witli the Queensland
Bushmen.
The Sea-cooks’Union,
which paralysed Aus-
tralian shipping for
several weeks before
Donald Cameron.
the Waterside Stopworkers’ Federation had
its turn —or funeral—has been warned by
Judge Dethridge to reduce its £lO entrance-
fee to not more than £3 and otherwise tone
itself down, else its registration may be can-
celled. The entrance used to cost £2, but
the two-pounders who were in raised the
charge to make it more difficult for others
to follow them. It might not be amiss if
the law said that in such a case existing
members should pay the increased rate as
well as new ones, but unfortunately the law
doesn’t amount to much.
The monetary plight in which the city of
Sydney finds itself is a legacy from the
extravagant and much-suspected old gang
elected under the adult-lodger franchise and
such-like devices. The liabilities which the
old gang left behind are enormous. All the
municipalities in the State are to elect their
civic rulers on the same basis next month,
and Minister Bruxner says it must be done
because it isn’t the cheese, or the clean
potato, or something, to withdraw a fran-
chise once it is granted. It looks as if Brux-
ner’s conscience may cost more than it is
worth, especially if it brings the old gang
back to the Ma State metropolis with their
teeth sharpened for new efforts.
Appointment of an additional railway com-
missioner from outside the service to deal
with finance and have direct relations With
the Minister on that subject is the main re-
commendation of the Vic. Royal Commission
which considered the subject of the railways
for six months. The Government is also
advised to constitute a Ministry of Trans-
port, with a board to advise the Minister;
to let the Commissioners fix freight rates and
fares; to separate railway finances from the
State Budget; to establish a reserve fund
of £500,000 and a depreciation fund of li p.c.
of revenue, and to reduce capital account
by £12,483,000 (the liability to be transferred
to the Treasury). Whether the report is
worth the £3BOO it cost is doubtful, but it
must be disappointing to Hogan that Chief
Commissioner Clapp was not slated.
The U.S. Presidential election is over,
and a voice crying in the wilderness asks
“Where is Smith?” Echo of course answers
“Myth.” One of the cries raised against
Hoover was that he didn’t hate Britain suf-
ficiently, so his success is gratifying. It
would be more so if one of the shouts against
Smith hadn’t been that he failed to hate the
Pope sufficiently. It is reported that the
Democrats may pass out as a party, after the
manner of the Federalists, Whigs and
others, and coalesce with somebody under a
new name, holding that the old one has
ceased to be lucky. It is the oldest surviving
party name in the U.S., so it may be a trifle
tired.
A deeper gloom has fallen upon the gang
at Moscow, from which Federal Labor has
borrowed so much of its policy. The sale of
stolen art treasures, arranged to be held at
Berlin for the temporary replenishment of
the Bolshevik Treasury, has been blocked,
the German courts having been successfully
applied to by legitimate owners, now in exile,
It wouldn’t matter 2d. to “capitalist” Britain
or France if all the world notified that It
refused to buy their priceless national col-
lections on any account; they would simply
tell the world not to be a besotted ass, for
the collections weren’t for sale. But the
famine-stricken push which has “socialised
the means of production, distribution and ex-
change,” as Federal Labor proposes to do,
can’t afford to keep money locked up like
that.
Queensland Premier McCormack, who has
been definitely classed by the Moscow graders
as a member of the Right Wing—Lang is
hailed as belonging to the Left—seems bent
on emphasising the difference. In a speech
at Charters Towers he said that people who
refused to obey Arbitration Court awards
were rebels, and would have to be “put
out”; with an arbitration system there was
no necessity for strikes. McCormack’s habit
of bursting out with remarks like that is
fearfully trying to the new Labor editors.
Dr. Jensen, who was expelled by the
Queensland Labor executive for the crime of
having supported Bruce’s referendum pro-
posals in 192G —as Charlton did, and Scullin
—is standing for the Senate as a non-party
man. It is a heroic venture, but the brilliant
geologist won’t lack for support, especially
in North Queensland. So far as The Bul-
letin is aware, he has addressed only one
meeting—at Roma.
There is a tendency to regard the oil
gamble as a good substitute for an indus-
trious 48-hour week, with piecework and
occasional overtime. A well-known specu-
lator recently struck The Bulletin office
with a demand that the Federal Govern-
ment should toe the mark with a grant of
£5,000,000 per annum for oil-hunting. And
Archbishop Duhig, of Brisbane, suggests that
the same impoverished institution should
admit free of duty all machinery which could
possibly he of service in the oil search, as
“the lost duty would be insignificant com-
pared with the value of the oil struck.”
The chronic unemployed of Darwin have
received notice that free passages will be
provided as far as Perth or Melbourne, and
that no more rations will be issued. Where-
fore there is as much row as numbers per-
mit of. The aggregate of unionists in the
Territory was given as 1165 in 1927, and
338 of them struck during the year. In 1926
there were only 387 unionists, and 205 of
them struck. The arrival of a weekly or
bi-weekly train from Adelaide would brighten
the place up and improve the circulation of
the local paper.
The latest attack on Victoria’s dwindling
forests comes from Beckett, the State Minis-
ter who is theoretically supposed to pro-
tect them. Anxious to placate the sawmillers,
Beckett proposes to throw them the Cumber-
land Valley, 60 miles, from Melbourne, one
of the last remaining preserves of the giant
bush for which Vic. was once famous. Red
ash, white ash and mountain ash here tower
to close on 300 feet*. The sight so moved
the chairman of the recent Empire Forestry
Conference that he abandoned his neutral
attitude and issued a solemn warning. No
doubt forests are for use some time or other
(it wouldn’t he any use preserving them
otherwise) ; but the spoliation must be regu-
lated. One trouble about the sawmiller is
that, working under present conditions, he
destroys more than he takes out.
Arthur Rodgers and
Jack McNeill are hav-
ing their third tussle
in Wannon (Vic.).
McNeill got in six
years ago, when Aus-
tralia was tired of the
Hughes Government,
in which Rodgers was
Minister of Customs;
but in 1925, helped by
Country-party prefer-
ences, Rodgers con-
verted a minority of
407 into a majo-
rity of 3153. Three
shipping strikes in 12
months have placed
McNeill in an awk-
ward position, for it is
a farming electorate;
all the same, his per-
sonal qualities com-
mand respect, and the
other side cannot
afford to take things
easy.
Rodgers, M.H.R.
The Bruce-Page failure to order an elec-
toral redistribution was a very stupid sin of
omission which' is going to cost the Minis-
terialists several seats. Taking the Sydney
constituencies before the supplementary rolls
were made up, Parramatta had 67,641 elec-
tors, Barton 61,195, Martin 60,718, Parkes
56,581, North Sydney 55,064, West Sydney
35,004, East Sydney 38,394, Cook 41,492,
Dailey 41,873, and Lang 45,345. Parra-
matta, Martin, Parkes and North Sydney
are Nationalist certainties; Barton and Lang
are Nationalist, but doubtful; the other four
are Labor pocket-boroughs. In Victoria there
are Henty (73,671), Kooyong (64,186) and
Flinders (63,141), all safe as houses for the
Ministry; Ballarat (38,870), precariously
held by Labor, and Bendigo (39,723), in
which the Nationalist member is shaky. And
the weird Westralian arrangement shows
28,797 electors in Kalgoorlie (Labor) and
48,021 in neighboring Swan (Country party).
Kalgoorlie has rejected Labor at two elections
during the last 10 years, and with a big slice
.of Swan added the Labor member’s prospects
would have been poor. As it was, he had
the great good luck to be returned unopposed.
Ten women who interjected while the
no-confidence motion, based on the Hogan
Government’s nerveless attitude during the
wharf war, was proceeding in A r ic. Assembly
were removed from the gallery by order of
Speacock. The affair had obviously been
organised, like the outbreaks at Federal
Nationalist meetings; the ladies were quite
prepared for ejectment as soon as they had
spoken their pieces. McPherson charged the
Government with wilful depletion of the
police force, and with having failed to curb
obvious tendencies to lawlessness by an
emphatic declaration that men availing them-
selves of the Bight to Work would be safe-
guarded at all costs. Hogan’s defence was
that he had done everything the Opposition
contended he ought to have done. When
the division is taken this (Wednesday)
morning, the Hogans are expected to pull
through.
Hume was never a Labor seat until the
irrigation works brought a crowd of more or
less nomadic Labor
W.M. Fleming.
voters into the elector-
ate ; and it is signifi-
cant of the way in
which politics have be-
come professionalised
that the enforced cur-
tailment of loan expen-
diture on the joh
should be stigmatised
as an attempt to de-
prive a sick member
(Parker Moloney) of
his living. Each of the
Ministerial parties has
a representative in the
field; the Nationalist
is Jack Garry and the
Agrarian W. M. Flem-
ing, good Australian
writer and M.H.R. for
Robertson in four Par-
liaments. The draw-
ing was made when
Fleming was in the
A.1.F.; he enlisted at
42 and saw two years’
service, being gassed
at Peronne. With good
organisation and a
friendly exchange of preferences, one or
other of the non-Laborites should win.
In the struggle for rehabilitation Turkey
has got rid of the monarchy, the Khalifate,
the connection of Mosque and State, polyg-
amy, the seclusion of women, the fez, the
million or so stray dogs of Constantinople and
the old Palace outfit of dwarfs, eunuchs,
spies, odalisques and such-like. A further
move is the substitution of the Roman for
the Arabic alphabet. Still the form of gov-
ernment remains a difficulty. If Kemal
doesn’t make himself hereditary ruler it isn’t
a monarchy, and if Kemal makes the Par-
liament and the Parliament makes Kemal
president for a further term it isn’t a repub-
lic. Also if there is only one Kemal the
situation lacks stability. The simplest-look-
ing programme is for the big man to set up
as king, but if his or his son’s monogamous
Mrs. Kemal fails to provide for the succes-
sion the dynasty may fail to take root. The
old sultans were never short of possible suc-
cessors ; in fact they sometimes had a dozen
or two more than they really wanted.
A way of saving money, which is as good
as making money, might be arrived at if the
N.S.W. Government decided to cease railway-
building when the works in hand are finished,
until some genius has found out a method of
construction on a solvent basis, or, at least,
till the old lines have recovered considerably.
The Railway Commissioners’ report for 1927-
28 mentions two little additions to the flock.
Combined they make 22-J miles of single track.
One (Richmond-Kurrajong) is an insolvent
extension of a bankrupt branch, and the
other (Roslyn-Taralga) is a bankrupt sub-
branch of an insolvent branch. As the year’s
earnings were £7174, while working expenses
and interest were £35,182. it follows that the
Treasurer would have £28,008 less deficit to
keep him awake at night if they had never
been built.
The population of Maoriland increases at
a smaller rate than that of any other part
of the Empire, Britain excepted. For the
year ended March last the increase was
15,537, or 1.08 per cent, of the population
at the beginning of the year. Immigration
was considerably restricted during the period,
but that wasn’t the sole cause. The birth-
rate dropped to 20.29 per 1000, the lowest
yet recorded.
[For matter which has to be signed, S. H. Prior,
J. £. Webb and James Edmond, all of 214 George-
street North, Sydney, share the blame.]
GIVE US YER POLICY!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Give us yer policy!” comes the demand
At intervals in hoarse, discordant notes
Wherever candidates on platforms stand
And meet pronounced hostility with bland
And suave appeals for votes.
You hear it in the lulls between the groans
And howls that indicate some people see
Scant merit in the views of Brown or Jones,
The four-word bellow, in resentful tones,
“Give us yer policy!’’
Or “Cut it out” comes in a raucous bray—
“It” being whatever subject you are at —
“Ain’t yer no policy to give us, eh?
Yer policy is what we want to weigh,
Not blinkin’ tosh like that.”
Yet deem not, brother, that such noisy skite
Denotes that someone’s making it liis biz
To ascertain if views that you’ll recite
On topics such as keeping Aussie white
Click, or conflict, with his.
It merely means you've touched ’em on the
raw
With some incisive charge or shrewd
attack.
You’ve landed once too often on the jaw.
They want the subject changed; they seek
to draw
A herring ’cross the track.
“Give us yer policy!” I grow inclined
To think we’ll hear that cry till Gabriel
Blows his Last Trump, and all we poor
mankind
Are packed in pens, the sheep to be consigned
To Heav’n, the goats to IIcll.
And even then, when Michael ’gins to spout
Of what’s in store, and why, for you and
me,
Someone will interrupt the Saint, no doubt,
With this aggrieved, morose, disgruntled
shout,
In accents querulous: “Aw, cut it out!
Give us yer policy!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INIKS"
“Avon” : It’s surprising how little interest
Sydney folk show in their Harbor Bridge, in
its way one of the greatest engineering under-
takings the world has seen. I’ve travelled
on various ferry routes lately, and although
the structural work of the giant arch id
taking shape it is rare to see more than half
a dozen passengers lifting their noses out of
their newspapers long enough to have a
peep at the progress made. For a week I
have sauntered down to the vehicular-ferry
wharf at lunch-time each day to watch the
120-ton creeper crane handling enormous gir-
ders and have fallen into conversation with
the two or three others I would find there on
a similar errand. One couple, a man and
his wife, were American tourists; an elderly
man who was keenly interested said his home
was in Perth ; a young married couple were
Londoners on their honeymoon, and three
other sightseers were Maorilanders. Not one
of those I spoke to was a Sydney resident.
* * * &
“Mullarula”: If the Gyppos added a few
words to the language of the Diggers, the
latter helped to enrich the vocabulary of King
Fuad’s subjects. Quite a number of our boys,
on their first arrival in the land of the
Pharaohs, decided that the form of pidgin
English used by Binghi would be the proper
medium of communication, with the result
that many Gyppos to-day regard “gibbit”
as English for “give,” while probably many
city-bred Diggers look on the word as good
Arabic. The youthful Arab was specially
quick to seize on the great Australian adjec-
tive. Five days after the first English-
speaking troops entered Jaffa I heard a
T.P.
GUIDE (pointing to old
building): “That build-
ing goes back to Wil-
liam the Conqueror.”
TOURIST: “Why, couldn’t
the buyers keep up the
instalments?”
juvenile native calling out: “Here you are!
Picture postcards! Fourteen for a
deener!”
* * * $
“Lizard Passage”: That par. about Thurs-
day Island’s proprietorial interest in Cap-
tain Cook (B. 7/11/’2B) will probably be
I’esented in what is left of Cooktown (N.Q.).
The slumbering port for the Palmer gold-
fields of the long ago has for many years
claimed the sole rights to Cookiana, as far
as this section of Australia is concerned. It
was in the Endeavor River, which runs by
the hamlet, that Cook moored his ship for
careening. The big gum-tree at which she
was hove down is one of the sights of the
place, and the inhabitants think so much of it
that they always replace it when it wears out.
I’m sure of that, because the one that was
pointed out to me when I first knew Cook-
ing the Boer War. It concerned an uncle
of the storyteller who came down from
the back country anxious to be properly
tailored, and who bore a letter of introduc-
tion to Charleston’s most fashionable snip.
The latter bowed deeply in the Southern
manner on reading the letter, and began to
measure his customer*. “Will you-all have
one gun pocket, or two, suh?’’ he said. “No,
suh,” said the back countryman. “Ah don’t
reckon to car’y a gun.” “Then yuh mus’
excuse me, suh, but ouah establishment can’t
make for you, suh; we only cater for the
best fam’lies, suh.” “We-1-1, that’s too
bad,” said the other, reaching down the
back of his coat and producing an 18-inch
knife, “my interdoocer assu’d me, suh, that
he didn’t know a better man in S’ Car’lina
to make a well-fittin’ pocket for this.” “Ah
apologise, suh,” said the tailor, with ready
town was a big dead stump near the wharves.
Years later I found it a flourishing green
tree a couple of hundred yards up the river
beach which flanks the town.
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: The other day I wandered into
the International Philatelic Exhibition at the
Melbourne Town Hall. A lecturer got up and
delivered an impassioned address on stamp-
collecting. I gathered from his remarks that
there was grave reason to fear the balance of
philatelic power was being shifted from the
British Empire; also that there were forgers
and swindlers about, and that the pure basis
of philately was threatened. There were
some further strictures directed at the frivo-
lous people who were turning philatelic con-
gresses into “pleasurable jaunts.” Having
thus been duly apprised of the seriousness of
stamp-collecting, I took a walk around the
show. The first item which caught my eager
eye was a stamp whose call to reverence
lay in the fact that the Commonwealth print-
ing office had left out the “one” in “25.”
The next exhibit to arrest my wandering
gaze was an issue which based its claim to
immortal fame on the circumstance that the
Vic. Government Printer had printed the
watermark upside down. Finally I anchored
my attention momentarily before a board on
which reposed in lonely majesty “The World’s
Rarest Stamp,” for which an American had
reputedly paid £7OOO. Its claim to distinc-
tion was that it was believed to be the “only
one-cent 1856 British Guiana stamp” in exist-
ence. After that I drifted home musing on
the many ways in which adult infantilism
can express itself in this wondrous world.
* * * *
“Cesac”: Not all the good things are
hung in galleries. While looking through an
apartment house in Carlton (Melbourne)
recently I noticed several tastefully executed
water-colors. At first I thought they were
tacked to the wall, but closer inspection
showed that they had been painted on the
wallpaper, with even the tack head painted
in. The owner, an Italian, explained them
thus: “Taka da lodger with no mun and ho
painta da pictair for da tucker.”
* * • *
“Modestine”; A lot of guff gets into the
M.L. papers anent birth-control among the
Maoris. Meanwhile there is no noticeable
lack of young Ilonis and Ilenis anywhere,
and on the east coast they are thick as black-
berries. A Government official, whose work
takes him among the natives, told me that
he was recently inspecting a native-owned
station and came on a woolshed, part of
which was beautifully fitted up as a school,
with 18 black heads bent intently over their
slates. Turning to the owner he commented
on the extraordinary likeness among the
children. “Py Chove,” returned Repa, “I
t’ink so too; orra but two berong to me.”
* * # *
“Flagwagger”: The Footscray (Vic.) City
Council has been advertising for a typist.
It is stipulated that the young lady must
be under 18, and there is another stipulation,
too, in bolder type than the rest of the adver-
tisement. It runs thus :
Personal canvassing of councillors will .be deemed
a disqualification.
Obviously they know something of human
nature, municipal as well as feminine, in
Footscray.
* * * *
“Spadassin”: The cabled news that a
Georgia (U.S.A.) sheriff had shot down a
Judge who attacked him with a bowie-knife
in the street during the heat of the Hoover-
Smith election reminds me of a yarn told
me by a South Carolinan whom I met dur-
courtesy. “This establishment, suh, will
considah it an ’onah to oblige you, suh.”
* * * *
“Adam Ant”: As a sobriety test (B.
31/10/’2B) I nominate “Gig Whip.” I have
never yet met anyone who could repeat those
two simple words six times in rapid succes-
sion without making a mess of it, drunk
or sober.
ONE PLACE AS GOOD AS ANOTHER FOR THAT.
HUBBY: “We’ve got to cut out theatre-going, old girl—we must think of our debts.”
WIFE: “Yes, I know, dear. But we could do that just as well in the theatre.”
“Herodot”: John Brendon Parker, who
escaped from Darlinghurst (Sydney) police
station last August a few hours after he
had been sentenced to four years’ hard labor
and was rearrested last week at Bordeaux,
in France, had less
luck in getting
clear away from
the Commonwealth
than Richard Buck-
ley, who is still
wanted for partici-
pation in the kill-
ing of a bank offi-
cial at Glenferrie
(V ictoria), the
crime for which
Angus Murray was
hanged. For
nearly a year after
the execution of
his partner Buck-
ley remained in
hiding in Victoria,
being hunted' from
one bolt-hole to an-
other by the police,
who on several
occasions were
within a few min-
utes of their
quarry. Eventu-
ally, it is believed,
his friends of the
underworld man-
aged to get liim away on a tramp steamer,
while the story was assiduously circulated
that he was dead. The Victorian police are
pretty well convinced that Buckley reached
England and succeeded in covering up his
tracks when he got there.
* * * *
“Sunny Hill”: The three blue chevrons
on a Digger’s sleeve do not signify that the
wearer has been wounded (B. 7/11/’2B).
They show that he had three years’ active
service (i.e., service away from Australia)
after 1914. Men who were abroad in 1914
were entitled to wear a little red chevron,
the blues being one for each subsequent year
(which may have been spent anywhere, in-
cluding Horseferry-road and the Bullring).
Wound stripes were of gilt metal, worn
straight up and down on the sleeve. A cobber
of mine, who came miraculously unscathed
through a lot of scrapping, used to put up
half a dozen wound stripes every time he
went on London leave. He reckoned they
gave him a real good opening with the Lon-
don girls.
* * * *
“Oran” : A leading surgeon, now no more,
used to tell this story as a warning against
impulsiveness on the part of young doctors.
When he was a very youthful medico strug-
gling to make ends meet in a poor suburban
practice he was called one night to attend
the child of the local hotelkeeper. The in-
fant had a slight attack of croup, and the
young doctor, after administering the usual
remedies, waited until the child was out of
danger. Two days later the publican’s wife
called on him, and, producing an ornamental
notebook of embossed leather, explained that
it was a token of gratitude made by herself
for his acceptance. The doctor, thinking that
the couple wished to dodge their monetary
liability, replied coldly that he would prefer
not to accept the gift—all he looked for was
payment of his account for three guineas, to
be rendered in due course. The obviously-
offended donor made no comment; she merely
opened the notebook and extracted four five-
pound notes. Three she pocketed, and, hand-
ing the fourth to the doctor, requested change
and a receipt. It was a deeply chagrined
young man who obliged her.
* * $ *
“Pom”: “Lex” is absolutely wrong when
he includes motor-’bus drivers in the U.K.
among the motorists who can procure a
license without passing any test (B.
31/10/’2B). Before a man is allowed to
drive a motor-’bus or a taxi-cab in London
he has to pass a very severe test at Scotland
Yard. I know of no stiffer examination any-
where in the world for this class of work,
and I have been connected with motor-’bus
services in Bombay, ’Frisco and New York,
as well as London. I have also been through
the gruelling test (?) that one gets at 211
Kent-street, Sydney, and I can assure “Lex”
that if the driver’s proficiency goes for any-
thing he will be safer on a London motor-
’bus going down Ludgate Hill than one going
along the Parramatta-road. Many of the
present-day London motor-’bus drivers are
the men who drove the numerous ’bus con-
voys in France.
* * * *
“Yenton”: Anyone who has been in Lon-
don and watched three double-decker ’buses
racing abreast along the Strand in the midst
of a dense stream of other traffic must have
realised that the drivers were not men who
had secured licenses without passing any
test (B. 31/10/’2B). The public utility
vehicle driver is tested not only on his
driving capabilities, but on his nerve and
initiative also. Out with the tester, and
driving downhill, I was suddenly told “Your
brakes have failed, pull up.” It required in-
stant changing down to score a pass in that
little test, one of several. Road tests are
followed by theoretical emergencies, illus-
trated by diagrams and models, and, last of
all, skidding. A specially-prepared floor is
used, coated with oil and grease, the ’bus
driven on at speed, and the brakes are locked
hard on, while the driver strives to keep
some control and direction. This last is a
very useful test, as the London police will
not allow pneumatic tyres owing to * the
danger of blow-outs.
* * :!: *
“Chevroford”: Probably no warning to
motorists has caused so much mystified
perturbation as one which heralds a railway
crossing on the Heidelberg-road, near Fair-
field Park (Vic.). New drivers still slow
down and glance anxiously both ways,
although, as far as I can ascertain, no train
has run over the track for about 30 years.
FOR THIS RELIEF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now peace enwraps my harassed soul,
Too long the prey of indecision;
Untroubled days at last unroll
Sweet vistas to my weary vision,
And sighing gratefuly I sink
In sloth, as in a field of clover;
No cause to fret, no call to think—
The Cup is over.
No more my wits distracted swarm
With agonising calculations
'f weight, and worth, and present form,
And all the latest race sensations.
> more my thoughts a horse may tease,
Nor when he won, nor what he won with ;
I loll in lordly mental case—
The Cup is done with.
No more with corrugated brow
I con the list of likely starters;
I face the simple problems now
Of life and death, as one who barters
In childish coin, and with the thought
That, howsoe’er life’s path be nettled,
All other troubles seem as nought—
The Cup is settled.
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.
THE SUNDAY SUPPLICANT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He comes and knocks and trembles at the
gate,
As one who longs to enter, yet may fear
The hidden welcome that will there await.
Or heart’ning word or harsh, denying jeer;
A moment downcast and the next elate,
Hearing—“All right, come quiet! What—
a beer?”
QUEENSLAND.
MAGESS.


“Adelaide”: A Parliamentary Commission
was on its travels and, the cars hired being
overcrowded, a young landowner on the route
chipped in with his own and drove several
of the party all day. Another station-owner
provided lunch; but at table a minor official
spotted No. 1, and turned him out with,
“Chauffeurs in the kitchen, please!” Being
the sort that loves a joke, the reputed chauf-
feur went out meekly, and merely laughed
when a much higher official who knew him
came later with profuse apologies. Since
then he tells the story against himself, add-
ing, however, “So I sent them in a bill for
a day’s motor hire !”
* * * St!
“Clarence Cafeteria” : Now that Melbourne
has become a million city, Bohemianism has
come to mean little more than a search for
better cooking than is obtainable at the aver-
age meatpie-cwm-teashop. What real Bohem-
ianism is left has shifted its centre from
THE LIMIT.
“He’s a tactless sort of an ass, isn’t he?”
“Tactless! Why, he’d start talking about the wonders of Voronoff’s gland treatment
at an undertakers’ dinner!”
places like Fasoli’s in King-street to a cafe
in Exhibition-street. Here, after negotiating
a flight of narrow stairs, the customer may
still breathe the garlic- and laughter-laden
atmosphere of unconventionality. Everybody
talks at once. A virtuoso out of a job will
sit down at the piano and a stout prima
donna of the suburbs will spring uninvited
to her feet and cause tidal waves in the
soup-plates with a rendering of “Come to Me,
Thora,” or some such strenuous mating call.
A sad-faced comedian waiting for a vacancy
at the Bijou will upend himself and try out
his repertoire. A white-haired small-parts
actress, whose mien suggests that she has
never in her life played anything less tragic
than Ophelia, will touch you for a Capstan
or peradventure for a small bottle, and a
playwright who has the distinction of never
having had a play performed will affably bor-
row a shilling on the security of future
royalties. A beautiful large Ilebe, with a
smile like a proscenium arch inverted and
Herculean arms, beams over the scene.
Despite her transparent geniality, she leaves
the impression that she could act as chucker-
out should Bohemia be looking for it.
* * * *
“Herodot”: The term applied by the in-
mates of Pentridge Prison. Melbourne, to
the adjoining Women’s Gaol is a model of
crisp nomenclature, “The Hencoop.”
$ He * *
“Windsor”: A 13-year-old somnambulist
of North Brunswick (Melb.) slipped from
bed in his sleep early the other
morning, carefully dressed himself
and walked for three miles along
deserted streets right through the
city as far as Princes’ Bridge. lie
was still asleep and still walking
when he was spotted by a reveller
who, having missed his last train,
was sitting on the Alexandra Gar-
dens lawn and waiting for trans-
port activities to be resumed. The
late bird hailed the early one and
walked towards him. The boy
awoke in bewilderment, decided
that he didn’t like the appearance
of the stranger, ran confusedly to
the side of the bridge, glimpsed the
shining helmet of a brooding John
Hop 30 feet below on the drive
beside the river, and straightway
jumped down to him, fracturing his
skull and breaking an arm. The
father of the youthful somnambulist
didn’t discover the boy’s absence
until breakfast-time. He explains
his son’s choice of direction by the
fact that he had taken the same
walk with him on the previous day.
“A. Jack”: Is the motor-car robbing the
city-dweller of what little bushcraft he once
possessed? Not so many years ago even
youngsters could penetrate the hills around
Broken Hill without getting lost, but every
week-end nowadays, and frequently on in-
between days, adults are reported lost, and
cries go out for search parties. One explana-
tion is that most people travel by motor
nowadays, and travel too fast to pick up
and note landmarks. Hence when they
get away from the roads they have nothing
to guide them. With the horse-drawn vehicle
going was so comparatively slow that the
scenery was bound to impress itself upon
the traveller.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Most of those proverbial old
soldiers who, like Sam Weller’s donkeys and
postboys, are never supposed to die will
snort at the news that the Imperial Army
proposes to drill new-joined recruits by
“silent film” before handing them over to
the tender mercies of the drill corporals. The
innovation does not recommend itself to me.
In the army or out of it, most men have to
be driven if they are to tread roads to which
they have hitherto been unaccustomed. The
drill corporal, with all his faults of personal
comment and vivid imagery, has at least this
virtue —he arrests the attention of dull and
jaded minds by the only methods calculated
to do so, and out of that awakened indiffer-
ence comes efficiency. “Don’t look at yer
blanky boots, Mister ,” said an impas-
sioned little ex-imperial corporal who was
drilling volunteer recruits for the South
African War long ago. “Keep yer chin
up. Yer may be er blinkin’ bank maniger”
—which he was—“but yer won’t find nothin’
arskin’ fer overdrafts there; on’y ’orsedung.”
And the recipient of that advice, quite a big
man in Australian banking now, admits that
he never forgot the necessity, thus impressed
upon him, of concentrating on the immediate
job before him. The film could hardly have
done as much.
* * * $
“Gad”: Some of these passport regula-
tions suggest that women are far from being
completely emancipated. An Australian
woman travelling with her husband to Eng-
land has no passport of her own, her photo-
graph and particulars being shown on that
of her husband. Hence she cannot travel
by herself on the European continent unless
she takes out a separate British passport.
Such a document requires her good char-
acter and passportability to be vouched for
by a J.P., a bank manager or a professional
THE TRIBULATIONS OF CHILDHOOD.
NURSE: “Come and see what the doctor brought your mother.”
TOMMY: “Yes, and I bet she blames me. He wonldn’t have known where we live if
I hadn’t got the measles.”
man, and it is not always easy to secure
such at short notice. It might be expected
that Australia House, which knows the
applicant, would make the necessary recom-
mendation ; but it will not do so, although
the M.L. Government makes things much
easier for M.L. ladies in similar circumstances.
A passport was originally intended to serve
as a means of safe conduct for travellers
on alien soil, but nowadays it seems to be
used for throwing as many difficulties as
possible in the way of people leaving their
own country.
* * * *
“Naklioda”: Materialism is alleged to be
the new religion of the Bolshevik, and some
sort of confirmation appears to be contained
in the news that a Russian scientific body is
calling for world subscriptions towards a
refrigerator museum in which dead speci-
mens of all human races will be frozen in
for the perpetual delectation of posterity.
Whether the specimens will be nude or
clothed in the national sac suit and bowler
hat, and whether the exhibits will be volun-
tary or snatched from graveyards, is not
explained. The project is to cost 10,000,009
roubles, and the eternal ice of Siberia is
to be utilised. Simultaneously with the above
item comes the news that the Soviet proposes
to auction in Germany the priceless pictures
which the Czarist regime collected in the
great Hermitage Gallery in Petrograd. When
I saw them in 1914 there was a magnificent
Rubens amongst them. I wonder if future
Soviets will do a brisk trade in frozen
corpses.
* * * *
“Pourac”: The Eton crop for girls, admin-
istered as a punishment, originated in Ireland,
not in France or Belgium (B. 17/10/’2B).
From 1916 onwards it was a method adopted
to “discipline” young girlfc walking out
with or speaking to English soldiers or the
so-called “Black and Tans.” Later on there
were some districts where it was used as
a reprisal on girls who were too friendly
with Sinn Feiners.
* =S= * sK
“Bamu”: The Papuan shipping industry
will have a severe set-back if the story of
the total loss .of the Hanuabadan lakatoi
fleet on its nor’-western voyage is correct.
This annual trading expedition has set out
from Port Moresby every year from time
immemorial. The lakatois, housed platforms
built on numbers of large canoes lashed
together, run under their great crab-claw
sails before the south-east trades till
they reach the delta villages of the Central
Gulf of Papua. They are laden down with
earthenware pottery, and during the three
months till the nor’-west trades begin this
is bartered for sago, canoes cut from the
trunks of the giant ilimo-trees, which abound
in the Gulf villages, and other local pro-
ducts 4. There was other cargo besides
earthenware in the old days. A bevy of the
most winsome wenches obtainable in Hanua-
bada formed part of the crew of each lakatoi,
and to be chosen was an honor equal to a
presentation at Court. The Gulf ladies are
forbidding and gloomy. The Hanuabada
damsels are the reverse, besides being accom-
plished song-and-dance artists. > But the
Government, sooled on by the missions, has
ended that, and only men and boys man the
lakatois nowadays.
* * * *
“Knave’s Gambit”: A determined, almost
a furious, effort has been made in Melbourne
to revive the popularity of chess by staging
a series of tournaments at the Athenaeum.
It was a varied and interesting show, mathe-
matical geniuses taking on a dozen antago-
nists, blindfold and simultaneously, and
others playing lightning games with only a
few seconds between moves. But the public
showed only a languid interest. As a chess-
player of long standing whose sire initiated
him into the game at the age of eight sitting
over a smoky kerosene-lamp on a hot and
insect-ridden night in Adelaide, I am con-
strained to the opinion that the day of chess,
especially amongst the young, is over. This
isn’t to say that the young are lacking in
the intellectual curiosity or agility of their
forebears; but times have changed. In my
father’s day the home of the intelligent youth
had little to activate his mind, and the
subtleties of a game like chess were a wel-
come release for his mental energies. To-day
he can become an electrical expert and per-
form miracles in the ether every evening; or
pore over the engine of the Supersix in dad’s
garage. If dad likes to spend his evenings
working out chess problems—well, it just
shows how frivolous old people can be.
* * * *
“Hayes Kop”: Does one-way traffic cause
jarrings and vibrations in the buildings
between which it runs more harmful than the
two-way rush and rattle? It’s not such a
fantastic idea as it may seem at first glance;
in fact, in London there are said to be
already evidences of it. Structures at the
Mansion House end of Cheapside have
recently had to be shored and propped up
owing to a steady process of deterioration
which is attributed by men of science to
the traffic all rolling past in one direction,
with nothing going the reverse way, as it
formerly did, to lessen or retard the mischief.
If the theory is a sound one, Sydney is lay-
ing up for itself a heritage of trouble that
may stagger the next generation.
* * * *
“Elswick”: Never in the history of naval
construction had so much hitting power been
tucked into a 10,000- ton warship as has been
packed into ships of the Australia class.
The eight guns of the main armament are
onfly Sin. calibre, but they have a range
equal to or exceeding that of the 12in. guns
of the old Australia, a new type of mounting
permitting an elevation up to 52 degrees.
The Australia is equipped to pelt shells into
the enemy at the rate of 112 a minute in a
broadside. There are 24 smaller guns. On
each side quadruple torpedo tubes, an entirely
new method of mounting, arc installed,
firing 21in. torpedoes. Her defensive equip-
ment isn’t very impressive—hollow bulges
along the water line and 4in. armor over
her vitals —but her tremendous speed of 32J
knots is a great protective asset.
* * $ *
“Rounds”: Lady Duckham, wife of the
leader of the British business delegation,
tells the story of a Digger who went to Lon-
don, under compulsion, to be decorated by
George V. at Buckingham Palace. Meet-
ing some fellow Aussies and the beer
being good, he let the official func-
tion slide. When he got back to the
convalescent home, in which Lady D. took
an interest, he had to explain the non-pos-
session of the medal, and he did it this way:
“Says his nibs to me, ‘l’m proud of you,
Corporal, specially as you’ve been through
two wars, the Boer scrimmage and this
scrap. I’ll bet a shade of odds that if there
was another war you’d hop in afore the
bugle was done blowing the first time.’
That was puttin’ it pretty straight, but I
was takin’ no kid even from his Gracious,
and I told him ‘No blanky fear.’ The King
turns round to Queen Mary and says, ‘Did
yer hear that?’ My oath she heard it all
right, and she fixes me with her eye and
remarks, ‘No blanky fear, is it? Then
there’s no blanky decoration,’ and that’s
the reason I ain’t got any.”
* # * $
“The Bat”: There were men who would
turn their hands to anything to avoid the
horrors of the front line. In 1917 G.H.Q..
with an eye to a general muster of a.w.l.
Diggers, stopped all leave to Cairo, and the
“Jacks” went on tour through the Wazzer.
rounding up suspects. They netted a varied
collection. Many pseudo-officers were marched
to the barracks, one of them actually wear-
ing the crossed swords of a general. The
most interesting exhibit, however, was a
Tommy who had been running a butchering
business down the Wazzer: when arrested he
was dealing out camel-meat to native cus-
tomers. He arrived at the “peter” wearing
his apron and knives.
TAPPING 'EM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The respondent said that he went to a ‘tap’ dance
at St. George’s Hall, Newtown. A ‘tap’ dance was
one in which a gent taps the lady you are dancing
with, and you let go and get another partner.”
—Sydney divorce case,
At Newtown, with a “May I have the plea-
sure ?”
Your ambient arm a lissome waist en-
wraps ;
But just how long you’ll have to tread the
measure
Depends on whether any other chaps
Feel drawn towards your temporary treasure
And signalise the fact with meaning taps—
Upon the lady’s shoulder, I suppose—
Whereat incontinently off she goes.
Some swains might feel dirt-cheap and gone-
a-million,
And sense humiliation keen and hot,
With soulmates reft from them in mid-
cotillion
Or in between the steps of a gavotte;
Some might play up, like Arthur at Avilion
When Guinevere waltzed off with Lancelot.
But not at Newtown, where we merely feign
Indifference —and tap another jane.
No jealousies unworthily betray us
Into expressions likely to annoy;
No caveman yearnings for reprisals sway us,
Such as, when Helen found another hoy
In Paris, sent resentful Menelaus
And mates to knock the stuffing out of
Troy.
The ruffled cavalier who went off pop
Would cut no mustard at a Newtown hop.
See the glad light in Gertie’s eyes or Grace's
Thus accoladed ’mid the whirling throng,
As Mr. Right, bold suitor, changes places
With and removes her frame from Mr.
Wrong.
And when, as sometimes must occur, the case
is
Reversed —well, anyhow, it isn’t long.
Your partner lured away from you with
taps,
You put the comether on another chap’s.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


jlllililillllllllliiililliliiiliil
Q
The finest materials exhaustive
research can discover, knitted into
a stocking, of texture inconceivably
fine yet so strong ; such is
U
100.
n
Purest Silk surface , reinforced
with fine Rayon , in every shade
that Fashion decrees. oo
s'h
d
re?
m
J M\, A
A
AAA/\AAAAAAAz
cAn
cAu.flralia.rb
Creout 10 ru
*
PBb


MAN NEWS
/jitm
W-M'
The
“WILD WEST”
A Qreat Big Wide Leaf Hat
to Wear between Sunrise
and Sunset.
Pure Fur Felt; leaf
3*4ins. wide will
not sag ; High Crown,
will stand all weathers.
30/-
Post Free
Mail to Desk “5.8.” State Size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LTD.
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
c
1
The Christmas
Gift of To-day.
There is a newer beauty and a greater
utility value in the present-day range of
seasonable gifts now being shown by
Fairfax & Roberts.
The Silver-mounted Shingle Set illustrated
here is a notable example of the latest
vogue in toilet articles. A dainty little
set comprising brush and comb with
mirror in case. It is excellent value at
31/6.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LIMITED,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
PLAIN FIGURES. 23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
CASH ONLY.
HOTEL SYDNEY
Manager: HENRY S. PEISLEY.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel.
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
SOft. above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from 19/6
Bed and Breakfast from 13/-
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines)
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Colonel A. W; Hyman is again president
of the N.S.W. branch of the R.S.L. Hyman
was one of those Light Horsemen (he be-
longed to the 7tli Regiment) who left their
steeds in Egypt in order to do a turn on
Gallipoli; in France he was with the 4th
Divvy. He is president of the N.S.W*.
Jewish war memorial movement. Brissenden,
K.G., who did his soldiering in the ranks,
becomes vice-president of the Ma State
Diggers.
Becoming sec. to the Royal Commission on
Vic. railways when Tom Gilchrist was
stricken down, W. R. Mann, of the Gov-
ernment shorthand-writing staff, did first-
rate work in the preparation of the report.
He had the advantage of 12 years’ experi-
ence as a railway officer. Mann is destined
to go further in the service; his liking for
the Parliament House atmosphere has been
noted and approved.
Tom Paterson, Bruce’s Minister of Mar-
kets and Migration, has been campaigning
under difficulties.
Fifteen years ago
a cow kicked him
in the back, and
recurrence of the
trouble caused in
so unusual a way
has laid him up
several times this
year. To add to
his worry, Gipps- (
land is showing it-
self more partial to
George Wise than
it did three years
ago.
F. N. SIMPSON,
who recently
presided at the
Associated
Chamber of
Manufactures
Conference in
Adelaide.
The vigor Joe Ward is displaying in the
thrust and parry of the election campaign in
Maoriland is astonishing friends and enemies
alike. Joseph, now in his 73rd year, is the
lone survivor in Parliament of the war-time
Cabinet. Massey, Herries, McNab, Fraser,
Myers and MacDonald are dead; Bell is in
the Leg. Council; Herdman is a Judge; / lien,
Hanan and Russell have dropped out of poli-
tics.
Archbishop Kelly celebrated the 56th anni-
versary of his ordination to the priesthood
the other day. Born in Wexford in 1850, the
son of a sea captain, he spent 19 years as
a priest in Ireland before his appointment
to the rectorship of the Irish College in
Rome, from which position he came to Syd-
ney 27 years ago. Paris in the Commune,
Pius IX. deprived of his temporalities, the
Eucharistic Congress in Sydney and the
completed St. Mary’s are four milestones in
a crowded life.
In nearly 28 years of Federation only two
Westralian-born members have sat in the
Commonwealth Parliament —Forrest and
Senator Drake Brockman, now an Arbitra-
tion Court Judge. The friends of Bertie
Johnston, Country-party candidate for the
Senate, are thoughtfully emphasising the
fact; Bertie is also native-born. Once a
clerk in the Lands Department, Johnston is
a prosperous man nowadays, thanks to
shrewd deals in real estate and pubs.
Godfrey Fisher, one of the best-known
pressmen in the Speck, died the other day
at 63. A Londoner, he joined Hobart Mer-
cury as a compositor 40 years ago ; trans-
ferring to the literary side, he was cable-
editor when he retired last April. Before
his newspaper days he put in several years
prospecting on the West Coast of Tassy, and
he took time off from his journalistic duties
to serve with the Tasmanian Bushmen in the
Boer War.
Major F. D. Furse, private sec. to little
Amery, Secretary of State for the Dominions,
came back to Sydney the other day from
Maoriland, where he has been attending the
Empire Forestry Conference on behalf of
his chief. The Major served with King
Edward’s Horse throughout the war, collect-
ing a D.S.O. in 1918. At Eton and then at
Balliol, he seems foreordained to a career
in politics, for which his present job is the
preliminary training. He is the only son of
J. IJ. M. Furse, the sculptbr.
There will be a gathering of Streetons in
Coogee, Sydney, this week, for Charles Henry
S tree ton, the painter’s father, has a contract
to blow out 100 candles on a birthday cake.
He is a Kentisliman who emigrated to Vic-
toria and joined the Education Department,
retiring 32 years ugo. One of the sons,
Herbert Streeton, is a chemist at Roseville;
like Arthur, the painter, who was in the
R.A.M.C., he did his bit in the war.
The last of the Canterbury (M.L.)
pioneers who attended the farewell break-
fast given to the passengers of the “first
four ships” before they sailed from London
lias passed out —Mrs. Ellen Bruce, of Christ-
church. She went to Fernland with her
parents and grandparents in 1851, a girl of
18. and married the first schoolmaster of the
Canterbury settlement. Fifty-one descend-
ants. survive her.
Bob Cruicksliank, N.S.W. Labor M.L.C.,
has made his last speech. As a brisk young
fellow from Scotland he represented Reuter’s
and was on country papers in Queensland.
Passing to the advertising side of newspaper
work, he was the Sydney Worker’s ad.-man
for 16 years, during which time he unsuc-
cessfully contested the Wentworth and Hume
Federal seats; but he clashed with the
Worker people over his fealty to Lang, and
crossed over to the Labor Daily. He had
a post in Lang’s second Ministry. Until a
few months ago he looked the lialest of men.
Dr. 11. E. Brown, public health officer at
Rockhampton (Q.), has 4,675,200 acres in
his bailiwick, which incluudes the Fitzroy
and Livingstone shires. The inhabitants are
a cosmopolitan lot; among them is a little
colony of South Sea Islanders, who have
readily grasped the benefits of public hygiene.
Fred Johns, author of the invaluable
“Who’s Who in Australia,” added to his re-
markable record during the S. Aus. Parlia-
mentary session. He has been chief of the
Hansard staff for 14J years, and during all
that time he hasn’t missed an Assembly
sitting.
M. R. Longfield, whose death has left a
vacancy on the Sydney stipendiary bench,
knew N. S. Wales better than most men of
his generation. He graduated from the
Lands Department, and in one capacity or
another served the State in many districts,
from Wilcannia to Wollongong. His father,
a dentist in Goulburn, was shot in the eye
during an encounter with Ben Hall, the
bushranger.
Treasurer Page’s grandfather was the first
master of the Grafton (N.S.W.) Public
School. One of the old man’s pupils was
liis son Charles, who later saw the excite-
ment of the Solferino diggings and the plant
ing of “New Italy” and “Young Scotland”
on the broad river banks. Charles Page did
years of council work, and in 1907-08 was
Mayor of Grafton. Four of his sons became
school-teachers; another is a missionary in
Tonga, and two daughters marfied peda-
gogues. His other son, Earl, made a name
for himself as a surgeon before he went into
politics.
The furniture trade has provided Perth
with some eccentric characters. One was
the fattest person in the State —a regular
Daniel Lambert of a man. Another was a
lady who went about in masculine clothing.
Now comes J. J. McCoo, who has introduced
some pleasing innovations into his campaign
for the Perth Federal seat. Dispensing with
a committee and canvassers, McCoo goes
about the electorate on an ancient Buceph-
alus, carrying a boomerang, spears and
a shield. He keeps order at his meetings
by cracking a stockwhip. He is non-party,
he explains, because “If I join Bruce, he’s
got me in the bag; if I join Scullin, Caucus
shuts me up; but if I'm Independent I can
bounce ’em both.” “Well, to Hell with the
lot of you!” is his genial way of signifying
that the meeting is over.
Of course the papers are finding out that
new U.S. President Hoover did wonderful
things in Australia —such wonderful things
that one might have known he would be
President some day. The Financial News
(London) remembers, for instance, that he
showed Broken Hill how to get the zinc out
of its great tailings dumps. Young Hoover
(he was only in his twenties when he was
in Australia) was a very fine engineer and
organiser, but he didn’t quite do that. If one
man more than another ought to have a
TED THEODORE, member for Dailey,
who is directing propaganda for Labor
in the Federal election campaign.
monument of zinc it is probably one Potter,
who worked at the flotation process for
years; and De Bavay did great things, too.
But because he made a great deal of money
out of it and the other didn’t, perhaps De
Bavay should forego the effigy. Incidentally,
a dozen years before even their day old Pro-
fessor Schnabel, of Frieburg, had told the
cos. how to do it in about 27 ways—which,
of course, they didn’t try till bad times drove
them.
Superintendent W. F. Dimond has just
said good-bye to Broken Hill, and, inciden-
tally, the N.S.W. police force, after 16
years on the Barrier. He goes into retire-
ment in Sydney. The superintendent’s wife
was a sister to bank-manager Berriman,
victim of the Glenferrie (Vic.) murder. The
younger Berriman and Dimond’s son are in-
separable chums. Inspector M. Gibson,
whose whole service with the exception of
about six years has been given to the Silver
City, takes Dimond’s place.
The most cheerful bit of Bulletin news
this week is that Leason has undertaken to
illustrate “Bracken,” the Australian serial
by Bernard Cronin which is to open on
Dec. 5. Leason first took The Bulletin’s
eye 15 years ago when, though then quite
unknown, lie made for a Henry Lawson
volume the finest illustrations an Australian
poet has ever had. No other artist can pro-
duce Australian country types and country
life as Leason can; and to make himself
better acquainted with that part of Gipps-
land in which the story opens the artist
has lately been loitering there. It can’t be
said that he has been sketching: it is doubt-
ful whether Leason ever made a sketch in
his life. He hoards it all up in his wonderful
memory.
Sydney's North Shore lost a devoted
worker by the sudden death of John Graham
Atlee Hunt. He had been in most of its
public movements for 20 years, and was one
of the leading campaigners for the reserva-
tion of harbor foreshores in the days when
they were rapidly passing into private hands.
He was the younger brother of the Atlee
Hunt who was secretary of the N.S.W.
Federal League and has been Federal Public
Service Arbitrator since 1921.
It seems to be harder to get rid of a Min-
isterial colleague who refuses to resign than
it was a generation ago. In South Africa
Hertzog couldn’t bump out a contumacious
Labor subordinate except by tendering the
resignations of the whole Cabinet and then
having them sworn in again minus the
unwanted one. Something over 30 years ago
Forrest fell foul of another Groperland cele-
brity named Venn, who was Minister for
Railways, and, Venn standing upon the order
of his going, Bigjohn sent him a brutally-
brief telegraphic intimation that his services
were dispensed with—“sacked me in my
nightshirt,” the disconsolate Minister com-
plained. Apparently it never occurred to
either that Forrest was acting unconstitu-
tionally in assuming that he could rid him-
self of a colleague as easily as a railway-
ganger discharges a navvy.
In Tite Bulletin in his old Australian
days the new President of the U.S.A. was
ahvays Hail Columbia Hoover. He was
christened Herbert Clark.
Speacock amused some of his fellow-
guests at a vice-regal dinner in Melbourne
in Cup week by telling them he had a liking
for Guy Fawkes Day that was unassociated
with When he had been only 20
months in Parliament, James Munro made
him a Minister on Nov. 5, 1890. The
Cabinet habit grew on him to such an extent
that he was in 14 Governments before he
became Speaker.
T. ,C. Irving, of the Commonwealth Bank,
moves on from Perth to Adelaide; he has
been in Westralia since 1922. Irving can
still beat any of his juniors at tennis, at
which game he has represented both N.S.W.
(his native State) and Vic.
A letter which arrived the other day at
N.S.W. Parliament House puzzled the mes-
sengers ; it was addressed to N. Dee, Esq.,
M.L.A., and Minister Lee is called John
Robert. A resourceful official pounced on
the solution, and the missive was duly deli-
vered to Tom ’Enley.
A man who has had a remarkable career
is 98-year-old Sir David Maurice Sergeant,
who, as the cableman reports, is down with
a broken leg in England. Seventy-seven
years ago ill-health compelled him to give
up the study of medicine and seek fresh
fields, and he migrated to Victoria, where
he worked as jobbing gardener, house-painter
and builder’s laborer, with a turn in a soli-
citor’s office. In seven years he had regained
his health and saved enough to take him
back to England, where he finished his medi-
cal training, and in course of time became
one of the big men of the profession. Ser-
geant played in the first two cricket matches
between Victoria and N.S.W.
G. P. Peaclicll, who has arrived in Sydney
to take Bradley’s place as conductor of the
Philharmonic, faced the music in the wpr
as adjutant to a battalion in the Ist Mon-
mouthshires. He lias been music-master at
Winchester College, which boasts a great
choir. Sir Frederick Bridge is an uncle.
Aubrey Clarence Miller, brother of Deni-
son, who was governor of the Com-
monwealth Bank, is dead in Sydney. Him-
self a banker, lie was offered a job under
Denison, but preferred to stay with the
Wales. He was manager of that institution’s
Bathurst-street branch.
A dying father’s hope that his soldier son,
posted as missing, might still return was
revealed in the will
of Frederick Camp-
bell, from whom
the Federal Gov-
ernment bought
Yarralumla for the
Governor - General.
The old pastoralist
left £136,367, from 1
which he created a
special trust fund
“to provide for the
contingency of the *
return of my son,
Charles Bruce
Campbell, on or be-
fore Nov. 29, 1932;
should the son not
return the money
is to go to chari-
ties. “Good and
true members” of
the former staff at
Yarralumla were
not forgotten in
the will.
GOVERNOR
CAMPION, of
Westralia, drawn
for The Bulletin
by Autori, the
Italian caricaturist.
“Sea Nomad”: It’s a far cry from the
Antarctic to the Home group, off Cape York
Peninsula, where I last met George Wilkins.
He was camped on Hicks Island, and dossed
awhile in Billy Turnbull’s little home on
stilts. The man who was to fly over the
Pole secured a splendid collection of butter-
flies and moths, greatly admired the bird
life—-very prolific at that period of the year
—and was deeply interested in Turnbull’s
stories of the aboriginal traditions of the
group, once peopled by powerful tribes.
Near by rise the peaks of Spirit Island, where
the ruins of stone fortifications lie buried
in its scrub and ancient cannon balls have
been dug up. Wilkins made several trips
to the Peninsula coast, walking overland
with an abo. guide to the Overland Telegraph
station.
THE LONG GREEN MILE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O little winds of evening, through the gums,
Glinting in day's last smile,
I wish I could return, when evening comes,
Home by the long green mile
Adown the ways I loved so as a child,
Where early summer lingers
With fairy grasses, blowing feathery wild,
Combed by the wind’s cool lingers.
The seedling damsons lifted, ohes and twos,
Pale, thick-set, blossomy sheaves.
The warm pink briar-rose wore glittering
dews
Upon her green-draped sleeves.
Do you recall the blue wren’s cradled nest?
And where the brown fir swings,
The fantails in the fern and all the rest
Of small, dear, wondrous things?
For us ’twas Fairyland amid the shadows,
Heaven where the swallows dipped.
The Capewccd trailed us tangled El
Dorados
Down hollows golden-lipped.
Why should those memories bring a mist ©f
tears
On lonely nights like these?
Was it a lovers’ walk in other years
Under the lovely trees?
Ah. no! Such folly memory disallows.
I do but glimpse awhile
Two carefree kiddies bringing home the cows
Over the long green mile.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DAIZIEE.


THE RETURN OF THE PRODIGAL.
“Following on the complete severance of all ties between the Labor organisations and the Communists, Labor gained.many seats at the municipal elections in 300cities and
municipalities of England and Wales. On the other hand, only 27 votes were recorded for a Communist candidate at Bradford, and 32 votes at Blackburn."
JOHN BULL: “Welcome back, my son! The calf is all ready for you.”
Poverty
Point
“Spokeshave” : Little, restless Fritz Hart,
whose own opera was a feature of the late
grand season at His Majesty’s, has pre-
sented Melbourne with its first hearing of
many famous works, and his next achieve-
ment will be the Australian premiere of
Mozart’s “Cosi Fan Tutte” at the Playhouse
on Nov. 17. Mozart’s music has not the
popular appeal that throaty passion gives
the Italian masters. Nevertheless, tomusi-
cianly ears it is a pure delight. Fritz’s pro-
duction last year of the same composer s
“Magic Flute” —also a first production—was
exceedingly well .done.
“Cauboy”: The sense of public loss occa-
sioned by the departure of Maurice Mosco-
vitch, with his tawdry repertoire of mys-
tery plays, will be somewhat softened by the
news that son Nat Madison intends to stay
behind under J.C.W. management and pro-
bably head a company of his own. The
discriminating have often turned with feel-
ings of relief from the spectacle of Mosco-
viteh, sen., and his allegedly realistic depic-
tion of an incredible Chow perishing from
snakebite to the quiet performance of
Maurice, jun., in some unimportant part.
Madison is a first-class actor, and it is only
his dad’s overwhelming shadow and bad
choice of plays that have obscured the fact.
His rendering of the Industrial Worker iof
the World in “They Knew What They
Wanted” was a little masterineee of real-
ism. It was one of the few parts his father
has given him that wasn’t bogus to the core.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : Australian
stars, greater and lesser, are beginning to
reappear on the musical horizon. Last week
Evelyn Scotney, Pauline Bindley and Horace
Stevens received excellent notices for their
work respectively in “Rigoletto,” “Faust”
and “The Valkyrie,” with the Royal Carl
Rosa OperA Nora D’Argel, better known
in Australia as Nora Long, has been broad-
casting groups of interesting songs. Dorothy
Ilelmrich is booked for another season in
America, where Florence Austral will again
fulfil a long list of engagements after her
English tour, which opened at the Queen s
Hall on October 20, with John Amadio as
assistant. Both have dropped their first
names, and now are billed as Austral and
Amadio. At time of writing a new work by
Percy Grainger, requiring three pianists at
one instrument, is billed to be heard for the
first time in England.
“Craiser”: The fervent loyalists whose
evening’s enjoyment is spoiled if the National
Anthem happens to be accidentally omitted,
are now transferring their attentions to
the broadcasting stations. Bitter complaints
rained in on SAB Melbourne recently, be-
cause the operator inadvertently cut off a
bar of the royal hymn in switching from one
concert to another. Actually the studios,
knowing the sensitiveness of some listeners
on this point, are punctilious about observ-
ing the rite. The other night an evening’s
programme concluded without the cherished
tune. The power was shut off and in the
deathly silence that supervened one could
visualise a million patriots standing stiffly to
attention all over the continent staring
expectantly at the loud speaker. It was
fully five minutes before the hum of the
carrier wave once more arose and a very
thin and queer rendering of the Anthem
faltered across the ether. The announcer had
remembered the omission after most of the
orchestra had tumbled into its taxis. Hastily
mustering the trombone and the triangles
and throwing in his whistle, he did his best.
“L.H.P.”: Looking at the bill that
announced the opening of the old Victoria
( Sydney) with “Othello” in 1838, I was sur-
prised to note many characters mentioned
in addition to the Bard’s. Who are Julio,
Giovanni. Marco and Paulo? Yet on refer-
ring to Rignold’s “Othello” bill at Sydney
Cri. (1899) I find these same four characters,
and also Luca and Lorenza, whoever they
may be. Managers seem to love improving
the Bard. Bill Holloway billed the watch-
men in “Much Ado” as Oakcake and Sea-
coal, but lie had the text as a warrant. Not
so Hoskins, who sub-titled “The Tempest”
as “The Enchanted Island” and “Richard
III.” as “The Battle of Bosworth.”
“Hamfat”: The talkies will put a new
power in the hands of the Firm; it holds the
Australian performing rights of a remark-
able number of plays. Hoyt’s is a Williamson
organisation and will benefit. Even if agree-
ments have been made between the film-
makers and the play-owners in America or
England, that cannot limit the benefit of the
Australian performing rights already trans-
ferred to J.C.W. No doubt barristers can see
some fees looming ahead.
“Australian Abroad”: Henri Verbrugghen,
who has entered on his sixth year
as conductor of the Minneapolis Symphony
Orchestra, will give 16 concerts there and
another 16 in the twin city of St. Paul across
the river during the present season. Paul
Althouse opens his American season as
Rhadames in the Philadelphia Civic Opera’s
production of “Aida.” Next year he will
appear in “Aida,” “Lohengrin,” “The
Egyptian Helen,” “Die Meistersinger” and
the Wagnerian repertoire at the Hamburg
Opera. Allen Hinckley, the genial bass bari-
tone who toured Australia with the Quinlan
Grand Opera, is to sandwich lessons in be-
tween his concert and opera appearances in
America this season. Hinckley himself had
a long series of lessons from Cosima Wagner
before his appearance at Bayreuth, so he
has some special qualifications as a Wag-
nerian coach.
“Ike Pagliaeei”: Hope Mayne, with the
Gregan McMahon co. in “Rutherford and
Son,” has returned to the stage after some
years’ absence. When she was Katherine de
Vaucelles in the S. African production of
“If I Were King” it was difficult to get a
“legitimate” actress to wear tights, except in
Shakspeare, and the role of the wanton
Huguette who donned male costume to
attract customers was regarded with horror.
The manager of the co., Sass, had to prevail
upon his wife to overcome her scruples for
the sake of the box-office.
“C.R.”: It is seldom that producers search-
ing for a popular revival to fill a gap go
so far back as the present Melbourne Palace
crowd did when they resurrected “When
Knights Were Bold.” It has not been heard
in Melbourne since Frank Thornton played
it in 1899. Even the long memory of house-
manager Alec Carroll must have had to
scratch to recall the dusty thing.
“Cauboy”: Dion Boucicault was made to
say some foolish things in a valedictory
interview in Melbourne. According to the
Argus he said that “Melbourne has the
worst climate in the world, bar none —and the
best audiences.” The first statement is no
more true than the second. According to the
“Victorian Year Book” (1928) “sultry nights
(meteorological phenomena that matter to
an actor) “are of rare occurrence. The
average yearly rainfall is 25.65 inches, the
average number of hours of sunshine daily is
6.2, and fogs occur, on an average, on only
19 days in the year.” If Boucicault has
never played in a worse climate than that
I am ready to eat my Akubra. As for the
statement that Melbourne audiences are the
world’s best —they are sufficiently discrimin-
ating, at any rate, to appreciate Boucicault,
which is possibly what the veteran actor-
manager meant. That they stayed away from
his last two seasons may be put down
to the circumstance that he tried to carry
off a number of average plays with a below-
the-average cast.
“C.R.”: Nothing daunted, Margaret Ban-
nerman will make another appearance in
Melbourne at Christmas. Her first one pro-
vided her with probably the worst season of
her career. One reason was that she opened
at the Comedy, where most of the seats are
set at such an angle to the stage that their
occupants get the impression of sitting bolt
upright in a Ford. An actress whose beauty
and fashionable attire are so loudly stressed
by her employers is not seen to the best
advantage at an angle of 45, and the Firm
might do the lady the kindness of accom-
modating her with a less abrupt and preci-
pitous locale.
“CJaesar’s Ghosti”: Usually the stage
pressman is about as impossible a person as
can be imagined; now press life is being made
a full subject tor drama, and it is hoped
the types will henceforth be better drawn. Of
two new-journalism plays in New York, one,
“The Front Page,” deals with a reporter
who is alone in the press-room attached to
the Criminal Court when a criminal, who
has escaped immediately after being sen-
tenced to death, climbs in at the window.
The reporter helps to conceal him, having a
scoop for his paper’s front page in mind.
“Gentlemen of the Press” runs more plainly
on comedy lines, and is described as “amus-
ing as vaudeville, if not as journalism.”
Apparently neither of them has pleased the
critics much.
“Macann”: If the Tivoli houses don’t
always draw the crowds they’d like to, they
have themselves to blame for not making a
keener selection of turns. In the. last week
or two—hot and uncomfortable nights when
most people prefer staying at home under
the shower —the Sydney house has been
drawing packed audiences, even on Monday
evenings. The secret has been a first-class
variety bill. No turns have resembled each
other, and at least two have been worth
the entrance money alone. There is a
tremendous and not usually well exploited
audience for vaudeville in the huddle that
surrounds the Harbor.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : In a Red Page article
some time back C. R. Bradish, in referring
to Margaret Bannerman, wrote: “She is, I
know, of no consuming importance in a
metropolis where the name of Sybil Thorn-
dike is bandied about.'’ Still, in any average
year in London Margaret Bannerman would
prove more valuable to the box-office than
Sybil Thorndike. There are a number of
actresses, such as Tallulah Bankhead, Evelyn
Laye, Margaret Bannerman, Gladys Cooper
and Peggy O’Neil, whose names are always
in the papers, even when they don’t seek that
favor, and who are better drawing-cards than
the five greatest actresses on the English
stage.
“L. de R.”: Evelyn Scotney will be the
next Tait attraction to open a season in Mel-
bourne. The Australian soprano, who mixes
brilliant singing with sumptuous frocking,
is reported to be bringing costumes to cover
“one hundred years of song.” She owns
another which the sensation-loving public
might like to see. It is the one Caruso spat-
tered with blood on the night his throat
collapsed.
“S.T.S.”: Clive Carey, the live wire who
found the teaching of singing at Adelaide
Gonservatorium too quiet for him, writes
from London that after an opera season
there lie has taken a six-months’ engage-
ment for the U.S.A. An English co. will
go across to tour with “The Beggar’s Opera’
(which lately 'had a 200th birthday) and its
much-inferior sequel “Polly.” A fine actor
with a strong sense of humor, Carey should
make an ideal Macheath.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Dorothy Cumming,
who has consistently been making good since
she left Australia, is now busy in English
film work, having already done exceptionally
well at it in America. Her Madonna in
“The King of Kings” was worth remember-
ing. In the new Lilian Gish picture just
released, “The Wind,” which shows Ameri-
can film work at its best, the Cum-
ming girl gives a fine character study of a
primitive woman living in the desert spaces
of America’s middle-west.
. “St. John’s Wood” (Lond.) : A few cutting
remarks by Sir Thomas Beecham: —
This country is the only one where music is on
a lower level than it was 25 years ago. There
is not in the whole country one orchestra which is
of the front rank. The greatest composer of the
dav, Frederick Delius, is an Englishman. The bulk
of’his music is unknown here. Our greatest singers
are not heard in England. It is not worth their
while living here, because of inferior musical con-
ditions. We have the disgusting, noisy brass band.
In every street is heard the terrible broadcasting,
the grinding and grunting of all the hogs out of
all the hoggeries in the world.
Beecham is nothing if not straight and
forceful, but as lie states the truth be may
yet reap the reward due to that great virtue.


0
©
ft***
m
Ilf
»
1
x
F
fir
1
a
s
i
V
v m
x
lEz
Ml
Cl
mm
"Mb
m
Sr«
lifiillil
.XV'-X
SM
/--
Eri
ss
WMWMmZi-
y
|S*A
■
IISSI
pf«
1
w
WMm/M
/
M
*****
OT only in the great cities, but in the more
remote districts as well, the popularity of
Sharwood Shoes for Men and Women grows
ever greater and greater. The reason is obvious —
they are good to look at, because in cut and style they
express the last word of fashion, and they are good to
wear, materials being of the finest, and workmanship
being exceptionally thorough. For comfort and
fitting, too, they are unexcelled.
When next you need boots or shoes, ask for
Sharwood’s —wear them once and you’ll wear them
always. All better-class stores throughout Aus-
tralia will be pleased to submit the newest models
for your inspection.
Remember —the name is on every pair—be sure to
look for it! It is NOT a Sharwood unless it bears
this name!
FAtITLE//
FCCTWEAR
/
V
y
sd-*r.
A
%
r**%
/? ' ) ,
c&ca
A
n%r
3
S 3
mmk
v\^
B-E-T
Communicate with the Sharwood Service Bureau, Abbotsford,
Melbourne, if you have any difficulty in procuring both men’s
and women’s shoes.


A WONDERFUL BODY BUILDER
/
MY ADVICE
TO YOU !
TAKE
AR
TONIC WINE
RELIEVES
EXHAUSTION
TRADE MARK
REGISTERED
BUILDS UP
THE SYSTEM
AFTER ILLNESS.
juuujjt
Obtainable everywhere throughout Australia—
CHEMISTS, LICENSED GROCERS, HOTELS, etc.
Suppliers for N.S.W. and Q’land: McLaughlin & Co., Ltd., Corner Sussex and Hay Streets, Sydney.
„ West Australia Distillers Agency, Ltd., Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
. j Irvine & McEachern, Brisbane Street, Launceston.
>, >» Tasmania } Ferguson & Co., Murray Street, Hobart.
Sole Proprietors: ARNOLD BROS., A.B. Building, 527-529 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vie.
HEINZ
Sweet Gherkins
Crisp, tender, appetizing. They
put the appetite on edge afid
make the whole meal taste
better. Heinz Relishes, Heinz
Olives, Heinz Chow Chow, are
all equally delightful.
1368
one of the
57
Varieties
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK. >(
Her Majesty's .. “ Ttle VVw >
“The patsy’*
Empire ...V.V “The Beggar Student'’
Tivoli Vaudeville
Regent ". V. V. V.V. Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK. (>
His Majesty’s “ The Son ®..>
Royal • Rin - e „
New Comedy “On Approval
King’s “Cheating Cheaters
PniwrFss Shakspearean Plays
IthenTum “The Family Upstair^
Majestic* V.V.V.V.'. .' Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Olympia V.V.'.V.V. Wirths’ Circus
—«.
The theme of “White Cargo, revived for
a brief run at Sydney Royal on Saturday,
is chiefly environment: the effect upon the
morals and constitutions of whites worked
by the tropic West African coast, to them
an unnatural geographical situation. Each
arrives at the trade outpost there satisfied
that he will be the shining example to pull
through with his civilised codes intact, and
each in his turn fails. Witzel (Leon Gor-
don) has failed and found salvation from
degeneracy or madness in turning cynic;
Ashley (Frank Bradley) fails, and is re-
turned to England; Langford (Leylaud
llodgson) arrives and fights stubbornly
against the unequal conditions until lie
meets Tondeleyo (May Collins), immoral and
unmoral half-caste, whom others have taken
casually, but whom he marries under the
delusion that in this way he can both keep
his codes and satisfy his lust. When his
passions cool through surfeit, Tondeleyo,
physically insatiable, and dimly understand-
ing that the white’s marriage ties are bind-
ing so long as the parties live, attempts to
poison him, and for punishment is made by
Witzel to swallow a stiff dose of the poison
herself, while Langford is carried back to
England with only a bare fighting chance of
recovery; and the cycle is completed by the
arrival of yet another cleanskin.
* * * *
The play is one of stark realism,
and in the grimness of its setting and
the acting of its males this realism
is remarkably well suggested. That
effect, however, is achieved —ms effects are
on the stage—by exaggeration. Because
they are really theatrical, Gordon, Bradley,
ELSIE PARKES, helping Elsie Prince to make “Good News"
cheer up good crowds at Sydney St James.
Hodgson, C. M. Hallard (a drink-shaken
doctor), B. N. Lewin (missionary), John
Fernside (trade-ship’s skipper), Bert Barton
(its engineer) and John D’Arcy (the man
who takes Langford’s place) make their parts
ring true to life. And that is just where
May Collins, the only woman in the piece,
fails badly. For stage purposes Tondeleyo
needs to be what she is actually billed as
—the Eternal Lure : Magdalene, Delilah....
seductiveness, suppleness, allurement. Instead,
she is commonplace, stiff, unattractive, with
a cackling voice, strings of clattering beads,
a bare but uninteresting leg, and an approach
so crude and awkward that the haunters of
Hunter-street would starve if they employed
it. That such a travesty of a female could
make men take her when nothing better
offered is not questioned: life is life, and
starved men are not epicures. But on the
stage, where everything is illusion, this sort
of Tondeleyo will not do at all; in the
language of theatrical paradox, she is so
real that she is unreal. Still, the fine act-
ing of the males, and particularly of Gordon,
Ilallard and Langford, makes the piece one
of the three best entertainments on offer in
the Harbor town at the moment.
* # *
If only it had good voices, or even one
good voice, “Good News,” told —almost liter-
ally told —at Sydney St. James on Satur-
day, would be a much better production. It
is fair as it stands —light, bright and shallow
as a cocktail; with Elsie Prince brisk and
entertaining in a London-musical-hall sort
of way ; Jimmy Godden funny enough, though
most of his humor does come from an inex-
haustible salt-shaker: Betty Lambert grace-
ful and really twinkling on her toes; Elsie
Parkes a trifle sobful, but satisfying, as a
lovelorn girl, and (it should have been placed
first) a ballet of 40 or so as fresh and spark-
ling as a midsummer breaker. The show
must not be confused with the “Good News”
that flopped in Melbourne a few months ago;
the piece is the same, but the people are all
different. The bunch of raw and immature
infants from the U.S.A., who would have
made “Bose Marie” a box-oflice frost, have
been replaced by a crowd who are weak only
in regard to individual voice; the mass sing-
ing is passable enough, though the score is
nothing wonderful. Such story as the piece
contains —a very fragile affair —is set in a
typical musicomedy U.S.A. college, where
(according to musicomedy) a professor may
be sufficiently a charlatan to give a dunce
a clean pass so that lie won’t be debarred
from playing in the football team. Elsie
Prince, arrayed in the burlesque rigout of
a vaudeville English slavey, rather mono-
tonously lifts her skirt to the highest possible
altitude on the slightest provocation, but
it is her vivacity in a not strikingly fat
part that chiefly carries the show along.
Freddie Connyngham, Len Rich. Stanley
Foley, Nellie Dean and Mollie Fisher are
others who do their little well. The sort of
show that puts an audience under a pleasant
anaesthetic while it subtly removes a couple
of superfluous hours from existence.
* * *
Excerpts from Italian opera, sung in
Italian by an
Italian, formed the
backbone of tenor
Minghetti’s concert
at Sydney Town
Hall on Saturday
night. He gave
these excerpts as
tliroatily, as pas-
sionately and as
sweetly as he did
at Her Majesty’s a
few weeks ago, but
he achieved his
most artistic effect
in a gem of French
opera, “A h,
Fuyez!” from Mas-
senet’s “Manon,” in
which he had a
background of
pianoforte and
organ supplied by
Frank Hutchens
and Ernest Truman
respectively. The
most popular en-
core number was
the aria about the
changeable lady,
from “Rigoletto.”
Some Spanish
songs were sung
with dash and fire,
and the signor de-
monstrated his
courage and versa-
tility by attacking
a couple of Eng-
lish lyrics, which
he enunciated very
crisply but with
queer little halts
necessitated by fre-
quent references to
his notes on the
p r o n u n ciation.
Frank Hutchens’s
solos included an
intriguing rhap-
sody by Donhayi, and the organist played
Wagner and Verdi.
*
The Shura Cherkassky concerts at Mel-
bourne Town Hall evoke sundry reflections
on the nature of infant precocity in music.
As far as present writer is aware, no child
of 16 has yet written a great novel or com-
posed a profound poem or sculpted a mas-
terly statue or painted even a competent por-
trait. Yet there is no doubt that master
Shura plays Bach’s deep and passionate Fan-
tasia and Fugue in G minor, if somewhat
too emphatically, at least with apparent feel-
ing ; that he satisfactorily extracts the sense
of leaping loveliness Liszt stored in his
Sonata in B minor; that his Chopin is barely
distinguishable from Friedman’s; and that
no apologies are needed for his Schumann.
Yet that he has crammed into his babyhood
in Russia and his youth in Baltimore
(U.S.A.) the experience of life, its bitter-
ness and beauty, which these composers put
into their work,
is so unlikely as to
,be hardly worth
considering. It
seems, then, that
in current criticism
the composers get
too little and the
virtuosi too much
credit. It is well
known that virtu-
osi, when they take
to music-writing,
usually produce
piffle. To put it
baldly, talk of crea-
tive genius, inspira-
tion and passion-
ate feeling in re-
gard to a lad like
Shura may be
largely journalistic
poppycock. It may
be that the inter-
pretative talent is
three-quarters imi-
tation. These con-
siderations, how-
ever, need be no
bar to the pure en-
joyment of young
Shura at the Stein-
way. The small
Robot, whom Mme.
Cherkassky, piano-
teacher at the
Odessa Conserva-
toire, no doubt, had
a great part in
creating, is an at-
tractive platform
personality, with
his innocent grin
and his gollywog
genuflections. He
is also a wonder-
fully accomplished
player.
* *
In “.C heating
Cheaters’’ Muriel
Starr is appear- ,
ing this week at Melbourne King s
the head of a sextette of gem thieves (gang
A), burdened by a low-comedy housebreaker
in the person of Mayne Lynton. The objec-
tive of gang A is the pearls and diamonds ot
the family Palmer, headed by Robert Purdie.
The Palmers, however, happen to be a second
band of gem thieves (gang B) after the
pearls and diamonds of Miss Starr’s com-
panions, whom they imagihe to be a wealthy
English family. It all sounds very compli-
cated, but Max Marcian. the playwright,
obligingly makes everything crystal clear
early. Still, there is another surprise com-
ing. Miss Starr is not a crook at all. In
act four she announces that she is the mys-
terious private detective Ferris; whereat an
audience of perfect gentlemen and ladies duly
professes itself astounded. Ferris then pro-
ceeds to marry the handsomest of the crooks
(Robert Ginns), enlists the rest in the ser-
vice of her detective agency, and the incident
closes. Canned American crook drama is
Miss Starr’s specialty, and she evidently
mistook “Cheating Cheaters” as a specimen
tin of the commodity. Treated humorously
and fantastically, however, the piece might
be made thoroughly amusing. Miss Starr
plays it with her usual intense seriousness.
Edwin Brett, Olive Marston and Robert Pur-
die waste some good, and John Barry some
excellent, acting on it.
* * *
Allan Wilkie re-presented his bowdlerised
version of “Antony and Cleopatra” at Mel-
bourne Princess on Saturday. To this Show-
man’s view, the passage where Cleopatra
hands young Octavius Caesar a false inven-
tory of her worldly goods rounds off and
completes an essentially human character. It
is the realistic highlight in a heroic portrait,
and the portrait becomes a trifle less inter-
esting and more monotonous through its
omission. However, the surviving portions of
the play were vigorously handled. “As You
Like It” came earlier in the. week. lhe
Hunter-Watt limitations acted to the advant-
age of Rosalind, a lady who is all lights
and no shadows.
* # *
Barbette, one of the biggest thrills Mel-
bourne vaudevillains can remember, is stnl
flinging at large audiences at the Tivoli. The
gorgeously-costumed Long Tack Sam and co.
continue to inspire wonder, and France Reed,
billed as the World’s Greatest Head Balancer,
takes an upside-down view of life that proves
acceptable. Carre and Carlotta, Egyptian
dancers, put more energy into the 10 minutes
of their turn than any Egyptian ever put
into a lifetime.
The Gregan McMahon co. closed its sea-
son at Sydney Palace on Saturday night,
and at time of writing that theatre lacks an
occupant, though no doubt, with two flue
draws in “The Vagabond King at Her
Majesty’s and “The Patsy” at tj e Onterion,
the Firm is not losing any of its beauty
sleep over that. The quasi-repertonans have
not had a very successful reign at the 1 al-
ace. Various reasons have been advanced, m-
HOPE MAYNE, who, after a few years’ absence, made an
impressive return to the stage as Janet in “Rutherford and
Son” at Sydney Palace.
ascluding a Sunday-newspaper lament by Mc-
Mahon over the unkindness, or blindness, of
newspaper critics. Possibly the true reason is
that McMahon has produced more mechanised
jrifflc than anything else, and in one instance
at least put a man on the stage to lead in
a very difficult play when that person should
have been at his trade —making grindstones
or dog-biscuits, or something equally spirit-
ual. Also, his best actors were periodically
taken from him and cast into other shows
of the Firm. He deserved better success;
he tried honestly enough to wean the Har-
borites of the theatrical pap they habitually
eat, and give them something solid in dram-
atic fare.
£ * * *
Myerson and Graham, who, for a pleasing
change, hail from S’Africa instead of from
Paris or New Yoik, make the good song-
turn that is the Sydney Tivoli’s newest offer-
ing this week. Pepito, the bubble-and-squeak
clown, is back; so are Creighton and Hector
St. Clair. Horam and Myrtill are still doing
their catch-as-catch-can dances.
* * *
Ike Delavale’s vaudeville and revue co.
entered on its last week at Fullers’ with a
new revue, “The Bell Boy,” which is as
much like its predecessors as one beer is
like another, and quite as entertaining. It
is brightly played, and the dancing and
ballets are as usual a commendable feature
of the production.
At Newtown Majestic the Bill Ayr co. gave
the Australian drama another flutter in
“Wattle Flat,” a three-act comedy which
does not need the assistance of a high-
powered microscope to show that it is. a
synthesis of the essential element which
went to the making of its predecessor, “Hol-
low Log Flat.” The co., including the leader,
handle the improbable characters to the com-
plete satisfaction of their audiences, and
Sarah Bernhardt or Dan Barry could never
claim to do more than that.
* ¥ *
At Sydney Town Hall Xenia Belmas
gives her final concert to-morrow (Thurs-
day) night. On Saturday night Angelo Min-
ghetti, who gave his final concert there last
Saturday night, will give another.
* * *
Shows in Adelaide are mostly cinema, though
Frank Neill is still going strong at the Royal,
with Field Fisher in support. Neill himself
makes “Charley’s Aunt” more farcical
than earlier exponents made it, and the play is
agreeably free from the bedroom element
hitherto stressed by this co.


The Mutual Life and
Citizens’
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31 st December, 192 7,
£18,567,527,
of which 85% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age,
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company’s capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1927, £609,330.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Castlereagh
Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
The Patent Indestructible
Garbage Destructor
Is the only Incinerator which is
everlasting and satisfactory,
odorless, smokeless.
OUR NEW CATALOGUE CONTAINS
INCONTESTABLE PROOFS.
GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown.
’Phones: L 2715. L 2716.
ďf
df
d
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Risk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd.
, Dividends ■,
Pref. To
Sept., Profits.(6* p.c.) Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
Co. reconstructed. Pref. rate lifted £
to 6} p.c.; three new ords. issued for
two old, absorbing £125,000 .. 103,546
Additions to reserves, £29,937 .. 73,609
6$ p.c.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 80,872 8125 13s p.c.= 61,250 21,497 52,112
Premium on shares, £12,500 .. 39,612
Reserves.
1926.. 191.858 8125 16 p.c. = 83,625 100,108 60,496
1927. .201,194 8125 23 „ ~126,500 66,569 127,065
1928. .219,245 8125 25* „ ~140,250 70,870 197,936
Trading conditions were not good, and, being
wise men, in order to liven their turnover
Melbourne retailers advertised more exten-
sively than usual last year. That, a clear
field and the progress of the two subsidiaries,
combined with energetic management, are
reflected in a spring of £18,051 in the year’s
disclosed net earnings, which were a record.
After attending to the prefs.—they amount to
£125,000 in a paid capital of £675,000 and
call for £8125 p.a.—the balance of last year’s
harvest was 38.3 p.c. on average ord. capital
compared with 35.1, 34.9, 19.3, 36.4 and 32.6
p.c. back to 1923. Over the same period the
ords. have had an average of 19.7 p.c., sweet-
ened with a 50 p.c. bonus scrip gift in the
1924 reconstruction. The special is. handed
out with the 1927 div. and bonus was re-
peated last year, together with an extra 6d.;
and then the 254 P-c. distributed called for
only a shade over two-thirds of the net profit.
The board wrote the year’s net result at
£183,548, but that excluded a taxation adjust-
ment of £4303; the other £40,000 was added
to the depreciation reserve, which is treated
as true profit in the table. The various
funds have grown in this way since the
reconstruction four years ago :
1925. 1927. 1928
Contingency reserve .. £115,000 £182,500 £200,000
Depreciation reserve .. 23,500 100,000 140.000
Div. equalisation .. 25,000 50,000
Attractive as the position is, the fact should
not be overlooked that the co.’s results are
being gained under certain specially favor-
able conditions. The board puts it this way:
The bonuses, however, must be regarded as special
distributions appropriate to successful periods; and
contingencies affecting the community as a whole, and
newspapers in particular, may reduce the co.’s
earning capacity. Among other contingencies com-
petition is possible. The directors are mindful of
this and endeavor to strengthen financial and other
resources to meet it.
Although liberal provision has been probably
made internally against obsolescence of plant,
etc., which of. recent years has been a much
more costly item than ordinary wear and
tear, nobody can be quite sure of the extent
to which competition may affect profits. This
is a very real contingency that needs to be
weighed by investors. That the co. has
hitherto been successful in buying off its
opponents is no guarantee for the future.
In fact, the .more marked the co.’s success,
the greater is the temptation for others to
enter the field. At present a syndicate, headed
by A. G. Wise, formerly the general man-
ager of the Herald, is said to be engaged in
preparations for launching an afternoon daily
in Melbourne.
The co.’s comfortable financial position and
the. year’s activities show up in this com-
parison of balance-sheet figures:—
1920. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Stock. . . . £108,087 £155,391 £165,524 £163,221
Book debts, etc. 56,890 320,847 306,996 208,083
War Loans, etc. 70,389
Shares in other
cos. .. 100 151,037 151,788 202,350
Cash . . .. 27,621 115 1,355 115
Liquid assets £263,087 £627,390 £625,663 £673,769
Liabilities .. 91,782 285,239 207,411 212,063
Liquid surplus £171,305 £342,151 £418,252 £361,706
Freeholds, etc. 73,645 192,765 244,446 285,774
Machinery and
plant .. 45,796 278,143 246,430 336,518
Net assets.. £290,746 £813,059 £909,128 £983,998
The year’s additions to the premises put
£41,328 on to the book value of freeholds,
etc., and the purchase of new machines, for
which special provision was previously made
out of earnings, added £90,088 to the plant
account, while th e Morning Post deal is re-
flected in an increase of £50,562 in the share-
holdings. To do all this only £4652 was
tacked on to the debt; the more or less liquids
were drawn upon for the balance.
Certainly the co. has a number of strings
to its bow, and all the publications are now
claimed to be contributing to the pool, though
what each brings in is not visible in the
published figures. In addition to its own
journals, Herald, Weekly Times, Sporting
Globe and the recently-acquired Radio
Weekly, since changed into a monthly, there
are those of the two subsidiaries —United
Press Pty., Ltd., and Pictorial Newspapers
Pty., Ltd. The latter proprietary produces
the Sun News-Pictorial, which has cer-
tainly made good progress so far as circu-
lation is concerned, and the Morning Post,
bought in Oct., 1927 —the price spoken of was
£31,000. The other subsidiary turns out
Table Talk and the Home Beautiful. The
position of the subsidiaries has not been dis-
closed, and the parent may be entitled to
more profit than it has yet claimed.
The market, which sees the golden glow
of the past reflected far into the future, has
backed the management so vigorously that
quotes for the ords., over the last 12 months,
have advanced from 655. to IOQs. Recent
sales were at 945.; the return af that figure,
after allowing for the final div. and bonuses,
is p.c. as long as the 25i p.c. distribution
continues. Subject to goodwill, etc., in the
subsidiaries the backing amounts to 275. 2d.
in net tangibles. The prefs. are priced on a
6 p.c. basis. Their backing is approximately
£7 in net tangibles.
Queensland Forests, Ltd.
This co. was formed in May, 1927, for the
purpose of carrying on afforestation in the
Johnstone River tablelands (N.Q.). It pro-
poses to afforest altogether 50,000 acres, and
to cut, treat and market the products there-
from. To enable it to do this, the co. is
asking the public to put up £90,000 in 18,000
£5 bonds in respect of each 3000-acre lot.
Thus far bonds covering four lots appear to
have been sold. The bait offered to sub-
scribers of these bonds is an assured return
of £lOO for every £5 bond taken up. That
is to say, each 3000-acre lot will have to
earn net profits aggregating £1,800,000, or
the huge total of £80,000,000 for the whole
50,000 acres, before bondholders can get the
return which they are promised. And that
is a pretty tall assurance for a co. to give
with a subscribed capital of £lOO,OOO (30,000
10 p.c. prefs. and 70,000 ords.), of which
£60,098 was paid up at June 30.
Cultivation is to start within one year
after the commencement of bond sales in
each section, and prospectus anticipations
were that marketing would begin five or six
years after that. Over what period the pay-
ment of £lOO per bond is to stretch is not
mentioned. Assuming that a sweet 20 p.c.
p.a. can be paid on the face value of the
bonds, it would actually take 100 years be-
fore the £lOO mark was reached.
There are two parties, thus far, chiefly
concerned with this co.’s affairs. They are
the shareholders and the bondholders. The
former own and control the business, and
the latter are creditors, who appear to have
had most of their teeth drawn. That is to
say, they take the risks without having
any say in the management, except such as
may be provided in the trust deed, while
the co. gets in early for the plums. To begin
with, the co. takes 10 p.c. of the face value
of the bonds subscribed to meet “unantici-
pated contingencies,” etc., including divi-
dends. Then when the marketing of forest
products commences, the co. steps in
in front of bondholders and takes 5 p.c. of
the gross proceeds. For all there is to the
contrary in the conditions of the bond, bond-
holders’ money might be tied up for eternity
while the co. continued to reap rich harvests.
The co.’s first accounts to June 30 last-
show “sales” at £302,767, though apparently
not a stick of timber was sold. The figure,
no doubt, relates to bond sales, which the
chairman refers to as the co.’s “business.”
Just how much of that amount was received
in real money the “Wild Cat” cannot say
definitely, but sundry debtors appear at
£253,446, and they might, probably do, in-
clude instalments due from bondholders. The
cost of selling the bonds was £38,459, an-
other £28,854 was spent on field mainten-
ance and development, and after deciding
that £219,750 would be sufficient provision
to meet existing bond contracts (it is a
bit more than two-thirds of the subscribed
bond capital), writing £1697 off preliminary
exes. (£6789) and putting aside £3600 for
taxation, the co. cheerfully brings down the
balance (£10,407) as net profit. Share-
holders whacked up £4813 in an all-round
10 p.c. div., £4OOO was struck off goodwill
(£16,000), leaving £1594 for reserves.
Balance-sheet figures were: Paid capital,
£60,098; sundry creditors, £27,682; uncom-
pleted contracts, £218,382; sundry reserves
and p. and 1. balance, £9003. To represent
that lot there was land, buildings, plant,
etc., £36,048; sundry debtors £253,446;
milling and marketing trust fund, £1368:
cash, £1514; intangibles, £22,789.
As a guarantee that there will be a sub-
stantial sum of money available to provide
for the maintenance and protection of trees
and for the milling, marketing, etc., of the
forest products, the co. has undertaken, after
it has received two-thirds of each £5 bond,
to hand the other third to the trustee for the
bondholders in trust. The fund thus created
would amount to £30,000 for each series of
18.000 bonds fully paid. In respect of the
“0” series, £15,000 of this fund, plus interest,
is to be handed back to the co. in 15 equal
annual instalments commencing June 1,1932,
in order to provide for the protection and
maintenance of the trees on that section.
The other £15,000, plus interest, is to be
held until such time, after June 1, 1939, as
the co. may determine to sell or otherwise
convert the produce of the section. If nothing
is done in this respect until 1945, the trustee
may, by the direction of a majority in value
of the bondholders concerned, instruct the
co. to sell, etc.
Of course the proposition may be worth a
lot of money some day, but exactly what
protection the bondholder or his descendants
may have the “Wild Cat” does not know.
Much depends upon the provisions of the
trust deed, and that was not published with
the prospectus of the co.’s 1928 bond issue.
What is plain is that the co>. has in effect
borrowed a considerable sum of money,
largely from small investors, on bonds, with-
out definitely committing itself to the repay-
ment of principal and interest at any speci-
fied time. Few concerns have been able to
borrow on such terms.
South British Insurance Co.
Net To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
m 3 162. 4 34 10 p.c.= 50,000 1 87 434 703>342
Written off premises, £2:>.ooo\
1919.. 150,133 llip.c.= 67,500 l„„ R oo vro 07S
Written off premises. £15,000 ) 77 ’ 633 780 ' 976
1920.. 237,018 14 p.c. = 70,000 107,618 948,593
Contingency reserve taken in .. 20,000 908.593
Unexplained additions to reserves, £85,531 1,054,124
Reserves capitalised .. £250,000 .. 804,124
1921.. 225,115 13 p.c. = 79,107 145,948 950,072
Written off investments, £20,984 .. 929.088
1922.. 160,343 11 1-9 p.c.= 83,333 77,010 1,006,098
Premiums on shares .. 34,013 1,040,1 11
1923.. 176,688 118 p.c.= 90,268 86,420 1,126,531
1024.. 185,644 12J ~,, 98,806 80,779 1,213,310
1925.. 200,597 13.9 „ ~107,403 99,134 1,312,444
1926.. 232,030 14.4 „ ~111.761 120,269 1,432,713
1927.. 237,035 15 „ ~116,060 120,975 1,553,088
Unexplained additions to reserves, £57,910 1,611,698
Reserves capitalised .. £257,910 ..1,353,688
1928.. 214,333 12.1 p.c.=124,657 89,676 1,443,364
This is one of the most successful of Aus-
tralasian fire and marine offices. No less
than 88 p.c. of the £1,031,640 of paid capital
represents bonus issues handed out over the
last 20 years. It is Auckland-controlled, and
has been accepting risks—its business now
spreads over all quarters of the globe—for
the past 46 years. Shareholders received
their last gift shortly before the close of
accounts in 1927, when £257,910 (ss. per
share) was capitalised, making the 1,031,640
issued shares fully paid to £1 each.
The nominal rate of dividend, which
advanced by annual steps from 11.1 p.c. in
1922 to 15 p.c. in 1927, was cut back to
12.1 p.c. last year, and then called for £8597
more than the previous year’s distribution.
Without putting any new money into the
business shareholders are now receiving
approximately 2 i times more in dividends
than they did 10 years ago. Moreover, since
1917 the income from investments has annu-
ally exceeded the dividend charge—last year
£126,150, or £5370 more than in the previous
term, was received in interest and rents.
Thus for the last 11 years the whole of the
underwriting surplus has been available to
swell the volume of investments, and, of
course, the returns therefrom.
During the last accounting period £57,910
was dropped from an undisclosed source into
reserves. The probabilities are that it came
wholly or partly from profit on the realisa-
tion of Government securities, the book value
of which (£1,279,888) decreased £208,494.
There is also a suggestion in this that there
might still be a tidy inner reserve in that
item.
The drop of £22,702 in the year’s net profit
was the result of unfavorable loss experiences
in Maoriland and Australia. That the fall
was not more pronounced is partly due to
a better return from investments and partly
to the eo.’s successful foreign operations.
Here are underwriting experiences over a
long period:—
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. penses. Rate. • Rate.
1895.. £209,239 £136,160 £50,229 65.0 p.c. 24.0 p.c.
1905.. 297,822 180,009 82,366 60.4 „ 27.7 „
1915.. 553,297 287,117 159,063 51.8 „ 28.7 „
1920.. 792,664 369,194 256,543 46.4,, 32.3 „
1921.. 924,159 499,300 283,613 54.0 „ 30.7 „
1922.. 893,340 538,289 279,638 60.3 ~ 31.3 „
1923.. 866,387 491,940 294,178 56.8 „ 33.9 „
1924.. 879,799 489,668 308,362 55.6 ~ 35.0 „
1925.. 905,917 496,709 313,382 54.8,, 34.6 ,
1926.. 939.533 521,003 318,358 55.4 „ 33 9 ,
1927.. 1,046,753 617,562 311,806 59.0 ~ 29 8 „
1928. . 1,088,048 628,559 322,513 60.5 „ 31.1 „
Compared with the 1927 figures last year’s
net premium income fell away £B7os—maybe
more of the risks were reinsured —and it cost
an extra £10,707 to put the business on the
books. Because of that, and the fact that
losses were £10,997 heavier, the underwrit-
ing profit (£86,976) was £30,409 poorer,
being only 8.3 p.c. of the net premium income
compared with 11.2, 10.6, 10.5 and 9.8 p.c.
back to 1924. The expense rate moved up
1.3 p.c., but only once has it been lower
during the last seven years. The loss rate is/
the heaviest for over 30 years. In Maoriland
nearly 45 p.c. of last year’s conflagrations
are said to have been due to “carelessness”
—a fact which is causing underwriters to
look hard at premium rates on certain classes
of risks, and harder still at proposals from
people who seem to make a hobby of care-
lessness.
Prom the policy-holder’s point of view the
South British is exceptionally strong. At
August 31 its funds (capital and reserves
combined, £2,475,004) were 238 p.c. of the
year’s net premium income, or 88 p.c. more
than is usually considered sufficient. Put
another way, there were funds sufficient to
cover more than the aggregate losses of the
last four years ; and assets are a solid lot:
p.c.
Premises £494,085 18.6
Mortgages 58,564 2.0
Deposits and cash balances .. .. 387,405 18.0
Stocks, debentures and shares .. 311,620 10.5
Municipal and Harbor Board debs... 395,846 13.3
Government securities .. .. 1,279,888 43.0
Book debts 46,100 1.6
They may be taken as well worth their book
value. When the books were last ruled off
there was £240,360 owing on open account
and £174,548 reserved against outstanding
losses. Chief movements during the year
were in connection with the sale of Govern-
ment securities and the reinvestment of the
money, for the most part, in municipal and
Harbor Board debentures, the book value of
which increased £220,246.
Following the gift issue a year ago, the
market priced the scrip at 585.; now it pays
645. The immediate return at the latter
figure is only 3.8 p.c. on a 12.1 p.c. div.
basis.
Buckley and Nunn, Ltd. (Melb.).
, Dividends ~
Pref. To Re- Re-
Proflt. (7 p.c.) Ordinary. serves, serves.
July, £ £ £ £ £
1919.. 42,609 —lO p.c.=18,274
Preliminary exes., etc., written 10,972 4,830
off. £13,413.
1920. .102.626 10,780 10 p.e.t18,521'
Preliminary exes, written off, ■ 72,086 76,910
£1239.
Reserves capitalised, £63,613 .. 13 303
1921.. 71,447 10,500 12§p.c.r=31,804 29,143 42!446
1922.. 67,816 10,904 15 „ „ 38,165 18,747 61,193
1923.. 73,318 10,500 15 „ „ 38,165 24,653 85,840
Hidden reserves disclosed .. 24,149109,995
Reserves capitalised, £69,608 .. 40,387
1924.. 74,648 10,500 15 p.c.=48,23C 15.854 5e!241
1925.. 69,583 10,500 121,, „ 40,505 8,678 64,819
1926.. 63,117 10,500 121 „ „ 40,505 12,112 76,931
1927.. 72,026 10,500 161,, „ 52,656 8,869 85,800
1928.. 60,476 10,500 13|„ „ 44,655 5,421 91,221
Three years back building operations inter-
fered with turnover, but as space became
available sales grew. Last year, despite
duller trading conditions, they approxi-
mated the record figure of the pre-
vious term. But competition amongst soft-
goods retailers in Melbourne is very keen;
and special efforts, including price-cutting
in seasonal lines, were found necessary in
order to hold business. One result of this
was a drop of £11,549 in the declared net
earnings, which, however, were still very
attractive.
After attending to the prefs. the balance
of the year’s net profit was a comfortable
15.4 p.c. on the ord. capital compared with
18.9, 16.2, 15.1 and 19.9 p.c. back to 1924.
The ord. div. was cut back 2% points, making
it 13:2- P-c., the average over the last five
years being 14 p.c.—a very juicy return con-
sidering that almost 41 p.c. of the ord. capi-
tal consists of bonus scrip handed out since
1920. The as t- (£69,605) was in
1923, when £24,149 was brought from a
hiding-place and put in the window. These
bonus issues, by the way, do not at all affect
the security for the prof, capita] in which
the public is chiefly interested.
The main activities in the business over
the last seven years have been in connection
with the extension of the premises and the
outlay on stocks made necessary by greater
display facilities. At July 24 fixed assets
represented 45.7 p.c. of the balance-sheet
total, after deducting goodwill (£60,741), as
against 31.7 p.c. in 1921. There were no
changes of importance in the sheet last year:
„ , , 1921. 1926. 1927. ,1928.
Ord. capital .. 264,433 324,041 324,041 3*24,041
Pref capitai .. 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Liabilities . . 172,199 245,939 236,120 232,392
Premises, etc. .. 165,109 291,404 296,179 297,999
Plant, etc. . . 34,234 80,734 84,600 87,456
Book debts . . 105,415 90,003 96,739 95,937
Stock •• •• 279,151 338,638 322,928 339,821
Cas h • • • • 56,876 34,488 48,183 21,927
The financial position was comfortable
enough. To meet outside liabilities, mostly
deposits, amounting to £232,392 there were
more or less_ liquids, including stocks, total-
Ol# *457,685, thus leaving a surplus of
£-25,293, which was £6437 less than the sur-
plus at the previous balance. Stocks
(£339,821, up £16,893 during the year) are
substantial, . and much depends upon the
figure at which they have been written. In
the past they do not appear to have been
overvalued.
T he prefs., which carry a fixed cumulative
i p.c and have priority as to capital, are
P ri cod at 225. 6d. The return at that figure
is 6.2 p.c. Last year’s net profit was over
5£ times their annual requirements; and the


ďfd
iSM
s myself die
yre7\
“Pericles" Act. V., Scene 111. Pericles, on
revealing his life story before the altar of
Diana of Ephesus, is re-united to his wife
and daughter after believing them dead for
twenty years,
§
m
m
m
s
V'.-;
ii
P
v^.
is
m
“in.
III!!!
•wnm
&
\\lil
<CJ!I
'irjj,
m
m
j//
m
aM'l
I
1
m
I
m
m
k%
m
■u--
1
m
%
:i *
E?
ll\
m
II
M 4
MW '
pr*
iRNU I
a
m
0
Barnet
BARNET GLASS RUBBER COMPANY LIMITED


“THE WILD ‘CAT’
MONTHLY”
The Great Australian
Guide to Money-making
In this period of Financial uncertainty
no Investor, Trustee or Business man can
afford to be without it.
NOVEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
A. W. Gordon Smith, A.F.1.A., Public Accountant
and Auditor, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney, Sydney Repre-
sentative Salt Domes Oil Co., Ltd. ’Phone, MA1763.
* * * *
We stock 4- GF -f- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7600
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.—A dvt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Municipal Loans Negotiated. Geo. E. Dicken-
son, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant, Victoria Buildings,
Swanston Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
* •* * *
Developmental work of all kinds demands the use
of materials with known service behind them. Where
piping is needed, the only choice under modern cost
and service conditions is Pioneer Wood Pipe. Low
cost, ease of installation, full efficiency during the
whole of its life, ability to withstand electrolysis and
frost, and suitability to all liquids are a few points
in favor of Pioneer Wood Pipe. Full details are
contained in our book, which we will be pleased to
mail you. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove;
and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. CoimisoN & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* # * *
Public Notice. — Mining. To the Shareholders.
Notice is hereby given that the Registered Office
of the Flagstone Tin Mining Co., N.L., is now at the
offices of H. J. Platt & Co., Public Accountants,
16-20 Bridge Street, Sydney, and that Mr. H. J.
Platt has been appointed secretary and legal manager.
By order of the Board. J. Lamroek, Chairman of
Directors. — Advt.
* * * *
Roma Cornwall Dome, N.L. —200,000 shares 10/-
cach —25,000 paids, 75,000 reserve, 100,000 con-
tributing—have all been subscribed: 2/- application,
2/- allotment. Brokers: Albert E. Harte & Co.,
Lance Jones, Kelly & Co. Both firms members of
the Brisbane Stock Exchange.-— Advt.
insure: with the
I
1
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
16 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
Who Will Manage Your Estate?
At all times when an individual is appointed as Executor or Trustee
the uncertainty of human life is present. Who is better qualified to
administer your Estate than the
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
It cannot die, travel or disappear; has had over 40 years’ experience
in the management of all classes of Estates, and offers as security the
whole of its capital and assets—over £1,000,000.
Our Explanatory Booklet will be
sent to you Post Free on Request.
DIRECTORS:
THOS. BUCKLAND F. N. YARWOOD 0. E. FRIEND
JAMES MOIR (Chairman) Lt.-Col. T. F. RUTLEDGE
J. W. Barnes, Manager. E. V. T. Whittle, Asst. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
backing amounted to £3 15s. 4d. in net tan-
gibles. The ords.. which are covered by 255.
7d. in net tangibles, seldom appear on the
market.
Equitable Life Co. of Australia.
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Excess Out-
Income. Claims, peases, goings. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1923.. 11,543 128 10,611 5196 30,426
Added establishment account, £1575.. 32,001
1924.. 19,508 331 19,528 351 32,352
Intangibles reduced, £145 .. .. 32,207
Surplus.
1925.. 24,778 1552 20,566 2660 29,547
1926.. 30,396 2906 24,890 2600 26,947
1927.. 35,480 4824 26,848 3814 23.133
Added establishment account, £2132 . . 25,265
1928.. 42,574 5282 31,591 5751 19,514
This Brisbane co. was registered in 15)22,
and four years later changed its name by sub-
stituting “Australia” for “Queensland.” The
promoter was Frederick Levy, who had been
the A.P.A.’s inspector in Queensland. He
took 15,000 fully-paid 10s. ords. and became
managing director. At the end of the first
year. June 30, 1923, £29,407 of the £59,833
of paid capital remained intact. The cost
of opening branches in Sydney and Mel-
bourne and of share selling, etc., ran off
with £17.730. Some shares, by the way, hayt
been sold at a premium, and those who paid
it, no doubt, have since asked themselves
what they did it for. Not that no progress
has been made. Income, which has nearly
quadrupled during the last six years, overtook
outgo in 1925, and the margin of surplus has
since widened. Also the ratio of exes, to pre-
mium income has been stepping down nicely ;
it was 79 p.c. last year as against SL.4, 89.3,
90.8, and 107.7 p.c. back to 1924.
But the improvement visible in the first
table needs to be considered in relation to
those figures:—
1923. 1927. 1928.
Proposals accepted .. 1,076 1,071 1,386
Sum assured .. .. £302,588 £329,752 £413,346
First premiums •• 10,040 9,920 11,918
Renewals . . . . 76 23,046 28,063
Interest, rent, etc. . . 1,427 2,520 2,593
Total income . . . . 11,543 35,486 42,574
In six years the co. lias written £2,124,761 of
business, but only during the last two years
have acceptances exceeded those of the first
year. The average amount per policy last
year was £298 compared with £3OB, £299 and
£325 in the three preceding years.
The Equitable set out to specialise in pro-
bate insurance, a form of policy-writing m
which a high percentage of renewals can
usually he looked for. Thus far this co.’s
renewals have kept above the 80 p.c. mark,
which is a highly satisfactory figure for a
young office'. On the other hand competi-
tion is very keen, and probate premium
rates vary from about 0 p.c. to over 15 p.c.
below those on whole-of-life with-profits poli-
cies. Amongst other things, that helps to
push up the cost rate, and, therefore, mills
for pretty keen management if anything
worth while in the way of profits is to be
won. Assuming that the cost of handling old
business is 7 p.c. of the renewal premiums,
then last year’s new policies were costing as
much as 248 p.c. compared with 254, 256 and
216 p.c. back to 1925. It is doubtful, how-
ever, whether old business can be handled
under present conditions here at a cost of
7 p.c. But even if 10 p.c. was allowed, last
year’s new business cost would be 241 p.c.
That is to to say, it would be nearly 21 years
before a penny could be put by to provide
against the day when policies become claims.
The cost rate calls loudly for improvement.
A year or so ago the field staff was reorgan-
ised. but maybe other outlets require over-
haul. .
During the year the first quinquennial valu-
ation of”the liabilities under policies (as at
June 30, 1927) was made by actuary Brem-
ner. His figures were not sent out with the
last sheet, and they should have been. But
at the close of accounts in 1927 the life fund
stood at £14,795; it had grown to £39,487 at
.Tune 30 last, though the year’s surplus was
only £5751. The difference (£18,941) was
provided by writing up the establishment
account—£l7,sBo of the increase being re-
quired to cover the actuary’s measure of
liabilities under policies at the date of valu-
ation. That and an unexplained capitali-
sation of £2132 inflated the combined estab-
lishment and goodwill figures to £59,000.
The tangible position is seen in this com-
parison of balance-sheet figures: —
1923. 1927. 1928.
Government securities . . £21,199 £38,161 £35,000
Mortgages •• •• •• ~ 9 ’°gg ?’®29
Loans on policies.. .. 688
Book debts,. .. .. 1,611 7,066 9,970
Cash . . - . . . 2,075 514 1,474
Equipment, etc. . . . . 5,924 5,680 -JI’SSq
Premises . . .. 55 ’ 818
Total tangible assets - • £30,809 £61,092 £116,839
Liabilities .. ■ • 969 11,314 53,100
Net tangible assets .. £29,840 £49,778 £63,739
Assurance fund .. • • 355 14,795 39,487
Paid capital . . . . 59,833 72,913 82,814
In addition to that lot policy-holders have the
protection of £61,963 of uncalled capital.
After deducting the life fund, shareholders
could see only ss. lOd. of every £1 they put
up still in tangible form.
During the year the co. bought Parbury
House, Queen-street, Brisbane, at a cost of
£55,815. Also it raised £45,000 on mortgage
and issued 35,304 new shares, on which
£9OOl was got in, making paid capital
£82,814 in 289,554 shares of 10s. each at
June 30. The board is now offering the
balance of the co.’s shares (55,223) at par,
called to ss.
The Equitable is fighting hard to establish
itself on a solid basis, and its prospects are
not wholly discouraging. Much depends upon
whether costs can be cut sufficiently to allow
of bonuses to policy-holders. After that there
are the intangibles calling for attention, so
before shareholders should get into the picture
a lot of money will need to be accumulated.
The eo.’s accident business, all hitherto re-
insured, resulted in a surplus of £439 last
year.
What is jocularly called on ’Change “the
mystery company’’ has been formed in Mel-
bourne: 75,000 £1 shares have been sub-
scribed by a powerful group that has made
much money out of Malay tin. Its im-
mediate job is to bore for oil near Mt. Gam-
bier (S.A.), where there are “indications.”
Incidentally, Professor Woolnougli is back
from Westralia witli a much better opinion
of the nor’-western country than operations
so far have seemed to justify.
* * * *
Ormildah Oil Development has decided to
abandon No. 1 bore and move further up the
anticline, because it would be too expensive
to attempt to recover the lost casing. On
the new site the oil horizon is expected to
be met at shallower depth. Funds in hand
are not sufficient to start fresh boring opera-
tions, and in view of the flood of new issues
locally the London money market is to be
tapped.
* $ * *
The strata through which Lakes Entrance
(Vic.) No. 2 bore was drilled have dipped
rapidly. The two oil sands, which were 15ft.
apart in No. 2, are now 50ft. apart in No.
3 hole. This hole, now down 1243 ft., is
being drilled by the State Mines Depart-
ment, and it is expected that the gas and
oil horizon will be reached about 1400 ft.
* * * #
The find of nuggets of gold at Moliagul
(Vic.), in the district north of Dunolly, led
to a mild rush. The prospectors have got
to date about £l2OO worth, and have sold
the property for £6500 to Pike’s Britannia
(Moliagul) G. M. Co. This co. has issued
a very skimpy prospectus containing a
greety proposal for working the property.
Of tiie 400,000 2s. shares to be issued the
promoters take 200,000 paids, with £7500
cash. No expert report is furnished.
* * * *
“Tahune” : Adamsfield (Tas.) is still turn-
ing out osmiridium, the yield from Jan. to
Aug. this year reaching 11900 z., valued at
£28,566. Since its discovery in 1925 the
known production, based on sales in Tas.,
amounts to 76660 z., valued at £175,292. Some
diggers have held on to their metal, waiting
for a rise, whilst many parcels were sold
in mainland States; so these figures by no
means show the true total of returns. Pre-
sent price is somewhere about £2B.
% . ❖ #
Almost forgotten Westralian Copper
Separation Co. was heard of the other day.
A representative, it is said, has gone to
Spain to see if castles can still be built
there. The co. began by trying out an
extraction process which it was claimed
would revolutionise the treatment of copper
ores and possibly that of gold; when this
squibbed it took out patents for the manu-
facture of sponge iron. It is in connection
with this that the representative has gone
to Spain.
* * * *
Geologist Gibson’s report on the Golden
Horseshoe (W.A.) is expected to be in the
London board’s hands this month; and in
view of the glowing opinion expressed by
the State Mining Engineer about the pro-
perty a year or so ago, Gibson's summing up
is not expected to be in any way unfavor-
able. Since operations were suspended at
the beginning of the year the management
has made improvements in ore treatment
which are expected to substantially reduce
costs. There is no doubt that the Horse-
shoe has shoots big and plentiful enough
to warrant development at depth, and valu-
able sections of ore still remain untouched
in the old levels.
* * * *
Riverina Prop., Mulline (W.A.), has
crashed again. Years ago a local crowd did
well out of it, and then gave up. Later
on a Melbourne co. took possession, and
after spending some cash went away lament-
ing. Later still a Kalgoorlie concern got
a substantial advance on a £ for £ basis
from the Westralian Government to break
out and treat 60s. ore which others had un-
accountably left behind. Now operations
have ceased and the mine is let on tribute.
The place where the show is situated is
notorious for unreliability of shoots. Those
that look well one day die the next.
* ~ *
Owing to lack of treatment facilities Glen-
elg Goldfield (W.A.) is in a bad way and
in danger of being deserted. Several rich
narrow veins have been exposed, but short-
age of water for ore-treatment is the trouble.
Had a supply been available the Government
would have erected a battery long ago. While
no payable deposit of size has been located,
the centre is promising enough to attract
many prospectors, and numerous rich patches
would probably be found.
* * * *
Gt. Boulder Prop. (W.A.) announces that
recent developments in its South American
venture, Carmen Valley Gold Mines, justify
early erection of a treatment plant. Mean-
while some Westralian shareholders com-
plain that, while the co. is baclciug specu-
lative enterprises in other parts of the world
it is not giving sufficient attention to its
Kalgoorlie mine and plant. The out-of-date-
ness of a lot of the machinery on the sur-
face and the overlooking of rich patches out
of which tributors have done well are cited.
* * :[s *
Westralian shareholders are wondering
how Boulder No. 1 co. manages to keep the
bailiff at bay. At the date of the last bal-
ance-sheet liabilities totalled nearly fSOUO.
or over £5OOO in excess of assets, and the
financial position is said to be worse now
than it was then. The co. abandoned its
Kalgoorlie holding, now worked with success
by the Enterprise Syndicate, in 1923. since
when it has been without a property, and
seems to have despaired of ever getting a
suitable one.
* * * *
So soon as the Les Trois Syndicate strikes
the reef about the TSOft. level, the show is
booked for a float, in Adelaide. Les Trois
is in Westonia district, but is some distance
from the gneissic belt of rock that contained
the Westonia payable deposits. Nevertheless
the show is not a bad one, but its shaft is
being deepened very slowly. A heavy inflow
of water is alleged to be the trouble.
* * * *
Westralian shareholders in Mararoa Co.
recently elected a committee, including 11. E.
Vail, of Lake View and Star and Wiluna, to
look after their interests. Vail intends
examining the property thoroughly. The
committee is a good one, and the co. appears
to be about to get some competent advice
cheap. Adelaide directors are being ap-
proached with a view to development and ore
treatment being commenced without delay.
* * * *
Mainly to increase efficiency, reduce over-
head and facilitate dealings with the F.M.S.
Government, Rawang, Serendah and Seren-
dah South—three of the Pratten group—
are to amalgamate their holdings. These
are contiguous and occupy the greater part
of the Rawang and Serendah valleys. The
deal is to be put through on the basis of the
earning power of the -respective cos. Ra-
wang’s nominal capital will be increased
to £1,000,000 in 10s. shares, iof which
Rawang takes 960,000, four for one; Seren-
dah, 396,000, twelve for five; Serendah
South another twelve for five—at present
capital in each co. is in £1 shares. The
amalgamation will thus start with a paid
capital of £876,000, and 248,000 shares in
reserve.
Estimates are that of the dirt available
15,000,000 c.y. will average 1.51 b.; 40,000,000
c.y., lib.; 25,000,000 c.y., ,751 b.; 50,000,000
c.y., .661 b. A net profit of £lBO,OOO p.a. on
a monthly turnover of 650,000 c.y., with tin
at £2lO per ton, is spoken of.
On the above figures the life* of the pro-
perty is approximately 20 years.
* * dc *
Pungah Tin, one of the Austral Malay
subsidiaries, announces a pall of 2s. on
330,000 contribs. This brings payment up to
165.; the balance will be called in two
monthly lots. Production, with two dredges,
is expected to commence about the end of
1929, The machines, which are to be steam
driven, have a capacity of 150,000 c.y. per
month each. The co.’s area is estimated to
contain 53 million c.y., averaging .831 b. tin
oxide assaying 72 p.c. metallic tin.
* * * *
Burma Malay, a Sydney holding and pros-
pecting co. headed by E. N. Mulligan, an-
nounces a profit of £35,542 for the year ended
March 31, largely derived from the flotation of
Renong Consolidated'. Burma also has, a
large holding in Katu, which should bd at
work before Christmas. The parent’s paid
capital is £BO,OOO in fully paid £1 shares.
These are worth about 475. 6d.
* * * *
Tinsongkhla’s clay-digger, which was
installed for dealing with the unexpectedly
difficult ground encountered when the dredge
set in in September, does not seem to have
been a success. The dredge ran 118 hours in
the first week of November, and recovered
3 tons tin oxide from 11,000 c.y., averaging
.611 b. Whether this comes from the old
creek bed is not stated.
* * *
October returns for Malayan dredges com-
pare with those for the third quarter of the
year—the latter are in parentheses—as fol-
lows :
Austral Malay’s producing quartette was
headed by Kampong Kamunting, which re-
covered 50.75 tons from 130,000 yards; aver-
age, .871 b. (1.191 b.) ; costs, 5.2 d Asam’s re-
covery was 19.25 tons from 88,000 yards—
average, .491 b. (.GOlb.) ; costs. 4.7 d. Ulu
Yam’s 88,000 yards yielded 22,75 tons; aver-
age .581 b. (.521b.) ; costs. 5.5 d. Thabawleik.
though 150 hours were lost, recovered 29.25
tons from 28,000 yards, and averaged 1.721 b.
(1.181 b.) ; costs, 20.8 d(
In the Malay Siamese group Nawng Pet,
much hampered by floods, put through 18,000
yards for 10.2 tons—l.2olb. to the yard
(1.921 b.) ; costs, 14.5 d. The open-cast mine,
Phin Soon', handled 22,985 yards for 24.70
tons, and averaged 2.411 b. (2.71 b.). Costs
were again high, 32.9 d. Haad Yai’s dredge,
which lost 90 hours in boiler-cleaning, dug
43,000 yards for 20.7 tons; average, 2.011 b.
(1.261b.’) ; costs, 12.37 d. Huey Yot recovered
29.6 tons from 58,000 yards; average, I.lolb.
(1.061 b.). Costs were 7.72 d., the lowest of
the group, though 72 hours were dropped
through heavy rains.
* * * *


SiglllSl*
-■
aSMt.
c
. ■
[
■'■
*; j
mm
m
..
■
ms
WHY YOU FEEL SATISFIED
AFTER. A CLASS OF K.B.
Simply because it's a food. That feeling
of satisfaction is the reaction of your whole
system to the body-building elements which
are contained in a TRUE Lager. You have received
something more than immediate refreshment
K.B. confers a definite physical benefit, due to the
proteins which are retained by the special brewing
process and developed during long storage. These
nourishing and sustaining qualities are character-
istic attributes of a Lager, and because “K. 8.” is
definitely a TRUE Lager—it satisfies.
TOOTHS
■lfgl
A
. •;
BBSeS SSK
- •: :•: >:
■
••' • ; v : -
a true
LAGER
Brewed and Bottled by TOOTH & CO. LIMITED, Kent Brewery, Sydney.


A Minute
oS your Time
NOW
a
m
m
m
may bring
a Fortune
to you!
TVTITHIN the ne?ct few days
the drilling at the Roma Oil
Field will reach a most important
stage—big developments are expected to take
place.
Now is the time for you to have some interest
in Roma Oil.
Convincing Geologists reports: —
Geological Reports on the Oil Permits —
Embracing 20,000 acres —are sostrongly recom-
mended for boring that the Directors
unhesitatingly invite the general public toapply
for shares.
A copy of the Prospectus of Roma Petroleum
Ltd. will convince you of the great possibilities
Every day further proof is being obtained
of the definite existence of Oil at
Roma.
SHARES
OF
10/-”
payable l/- per share on application, l/-
per share on allotment, and the balance
as and when required in calls of l/- per
share at intervals of not less than one
month. Minimum subscription 20shares
■The Directors of the Company are;—
Brig. Gen. L. C. Wil: oi, Solicitor. A. Cecil H. Palmer, Civil
Engineer. Stanley E. Travill, Deputy Town Clerk, and Richard
N. Reid, Secretary and Director, McWhirters I.td. Brisbane.
ROMA PETROLEUM LTD.
(Incorporated in Queensland under the Company's Acts 1863-1913)
Cut this Coupon out NOW, and Post it without Delay!
REQUEST FOR PROSPECTUS
Please forward me copy of the Prospectus of “Roma Petroleum Ltd.”
Name
Address
Post to KENNETH BULLEN
New Zealand Insurance Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Queensland
PROVISION FOR YOUR OLD AGE
PROTECTION FOR YOUR DEPENDENTS
CREATION OF AN IMMEDIATE ESTATE
A PROFITABLE INVESTMENT
Are some of the advantages of a Life Policy with The
A.M.P. SOCIETY.
No Shareholders. All Surplus divided annually amongst the
participating members.
Policies effected to cover payment of Federal and State
Probate Duties.
Funds, £68,400,000. Annual Income, £10,500,000
ENQUIRIES INVITED.
Head Office,
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
H. W. APPERLY,
General Manager.
"®lje »
jttrit af Australia’
HELPS THE
UMfrE
PROVIDENT
FUND
feat Austral Nn. 5 Art Hnimt
(By Permission of the Attorney-General , N.S.W.)
Captain Hurley Helps
THIS IS WHAT HE SAYS:
“We are taking with us a supply of tickets in the Limbless Sol-
diers’ Art Union.
“While we are endeavouring to do something for Australia in
the way of development of aviation, we think of our comrades who
have given so much in order that our great Empire may be intact
to develop. They need your help, and anything we can do will be
gladly done.
“The tickets we are taking will be disposed of in every country
we visit, and we hope to be back at the drawing on the 27th Novem-
ber with our butts for the barrel.
“We leave a message to the citizens of our country: ‘Let the
spirit of Australia help these men and make a success of their No.
5 Art Union.’
“FRANK HURLEY”
SEND YOUR BUTTS IN NOW
3 FIRST PRIZES—Ist, 2nd, 3rd, HUDSON COACH £499
and 131 other Valuable Prizes Totalling £3333
TICKETS 1/- «
6 TICKETS 6/- POST FREE
0. BEYERS, Hon. Secretary, 19 Bligh Street, Sydney
Thomas Oe La Rue &
Ltd., London.
ONOTO INK for
ALL Pens
PRICE
8/6
In its origin lies the secret of this
pen’s excellence. Made and
guaranteed by the ONOTO peo-
ple, its real merit is proved by use.
The New Swift answers a univer-
sal demand for a high grade pen
at low cost. AH British.
Of all Stationers and Jewellers.
Legal Notice.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 QUEENSLAND.
TO EVELYN THORPE formerly of Day-
boro in the State of Queensland but whose
present whereabouts are unknown but be-
lieved to be either in Queensland or in the
State of New Sputh Wales Storekeeper.
TAKE NOTICE that an action for dis-
solution of marriage has by Writ of Summons
No. 509 of 1928 been commenced against
you in the Supreme Court of Queensland
at Brisbane by Annie Isabel Thorpe your
wife and by her petition filed in the said
Court on the first day of October 1928 she
alleges that continuously for a period of five
years and upwards you have without cause
or excuse deserted her to wit since the month
of March 1922 since which date you have
never returned to cohabit with her AND
THAT IT HAS BEEN ORDERED by a
Justice of the Supreme .Court of Queensland
that service of the Writ of Summons and
Petition in this action upon you by publish-
ing this notice once in the Sydney Bulletin
and once in the Sydney Morning Herald
newspapers published in the State of New
South Wales AND by serving an office copy
of the Petition and a copy of such Writ of
Summons on Defendant’s father Albert
Samuel Thorpe of Ferny Grove Samford
Railway in the State of Queensland AND
BY FIXING on the Notice Board in the
Registry of the Supreme Court of Queens-
land an office copy of the Petition "and a
copy of such Writ of Summons shall be good
and sufficient service of the said Petition and
Writ of Summons on you.
IF YOU DESIRE to defend the said
action you must within two months of the
last act done in compliance with the said
order enter an appearance at the Registry
of the Supreme Court of Queensland at
Brisbane and in default of such appearance
judgment may be entered against you.
DATED at Brisbane this second day
of November 1928. *
D. M. O’FLYNN (1.5.),
Deputy-Registrar.
SYDNEY ROBERTSON,
Solicitor for Plaintiff,
Rothwell Chambers, Edward St., Brisbane.
Legal Notice.
YY/ILL any persons knowing of the wliere-
w abouts of WILLIAM FREDERICK
HUGHES, formerly of Adelaide and Sydney,
communicate with the undermentioned Solici-
tors for Ada Agnes Hughes, his wife?
SCAMMELL, HARDY & SKIPPER.
4O Pirie Street, Adelaide.
Wanted.
JVfIANAGER wanted for up-to-date Citrus
Packing Shed, with trading department.
Must have knowledge accounts. References
and previous experience. State salary re-
quired. Permanent position to satisfactory
applicant. Preference to Returned Soldier.
Apply
DIRECTORS MURRABIT PACKING CO.,
Murrabit, Victoria.
GROCERS,
THE “EARL” BACON CUTTERS, “made
in Australia,” are always at your service— made
in five models, prices £8 to £38, cash or terms.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
HUMPHREY EARL, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
FOR“LATE NIGHT”
STOMACHS
A late night, with ever so little to drink,
is poison to many. Next morning the
head aches, the tongue is bad. and the
stomach is worse. What to do? Take Para-
Pepsin ! Quick as a flash it calms the
stomach; freshens the mouth; sweetens the
breath. Appetite comes; irritability goes.
It’s worth a trial! Once a stomach suf-
ferer tries it he never goes back to harmful
anti-acids. Para-Pepsin is sold in tablet
form, any chemist’s, at 2/- and 3/6. For
a real and quick return to stomach health
you must have Para-Pepsin.


d
fd
”ft* Fine/t Inland Golf"
Link/ inAu/halia
Are to be found at the
finest Country Hotel
in Australia the
Management—G. M. Lievain I
ROBERTSON
Inclusive Tariff, from £l/1/- per
day, and from £6/6/- per week.
Sydney Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street.
’Phone: 86491.
fd
T he purest tobacco only,
Wrapped in snow-white
paper without any trimmings
has made <tC Uhe Qreys” the
best Virginia Cigarette.
It's the Tobacco that matters
GREYS
IO for Qd. CIGARETTES ao for 1/6
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO. Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Ltd. fNSG9
Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing T'>es
Wunderlich “ Durabesios” Building
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
For Forty Years, Manujacturers of Quality
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
and Roofs
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“Ahem”: I don’t think “Pfella” (B.
17/10/’2B) can justly place a laurel wreath
on the brow of his rooster. I had one named
Percy who did all that “Pfella’s” did, only
better. He completely detached one poor
kid’s boko from his face, minced it up and
gave it to his wives for supper, and I had
to shell out doctor’s fees for a new nose. But
it was when we got a stone lion as a garden
ornament that Percy excelled himself. He at
once conceived a satanic hatred of Leo
felix. That bird did all his physical jerks
and every fowl trick he could think up on
the inoffensive beast. In an unbridled access
of fury he tore at its eyes and pecked and
scratched them like a demon, but Leo didn’t
even blink. Then little Percy thought up
something worth while. He called unto all
his wives, 10, and instructed them. They
lined up behind him, each grabbing the
other’s tail in its beak, Percy attached by his
magnificent narrative to his No. 1 wife.
With an insane shriek of triumph he then
flew at Leo’s tail and hung on like a vyce,
while the harem tugged—tugged—tugged.
Within three minutes with a soft thud the
lion was dragged off its pedestal, whereupon,
like a Gadarene swine, it rushed down the
Bondi cliffs into the sea. After that we
couldn’t control Percy, so we chopped off
his clever head.
* * * *
“Boronia”: Bunny seems to be developing
the ability to put two and two together.
For miles inside the W.A. rabbit-proof fence
he is very numerous, and as much of the
ground is of a light nature, the country is
riddled with burrows. In the past fumi-
gation of these has always resulted in a
heavy mortality of the pest, but last summer
this did little to check him, and investiga-
tion showed that a large percentage of the
burrows had been abandoned before the gas
attack. Apparently the bunnies have
tumbled to the fact that their underground
residences are insecure, and prefer to camp
in the patches of thick scrub.
:jt ; 1 : * *
“Migrant” : Man can’t teach nature much
about trans-oceanic flight. The godwit makes
a yearly trip from Siberia to M.L. and back,
tln> tiny seashore fowl doing the journey
across the Pacific, America and the Atlantic,
via Britain and Northern Europe. The
migrants arrive from Siberia in the M.L.
spring, and leave again in the autumn, taking
off from the extreme northern end of the
islands in March. How they manage their
stupendous journey is not known, though it
has been explained that they fly at the rate
of about GOO miles a day, but the fact that
they do make the double trip yearly has been
established beyond all question. The birds
breed in Siberia, and most of those making
the southern journey are new hands. How
they set their course and make their land-
fall is one of “those things that no fellah
can understand.”
* * >!= *
“Wanchai”: The Amazon and the Nile are
not the only rivers that have produced float-
ing islands. A small portion of the. Snowy
River Flats at Bete Bolong (Vic.) is float-
ing, although the fact is challenged by several
of the local maize farmers. The evidence,
however, is conclusive. Normally this par-
ticular portion is some feet below the level
of the river bank, and is flush with the sur-
face of the remaining flat land; but at flood
time, when the rest is submerged, this por-
tion remains above water. If a horse is can-
tered over the island, the fence posts dance
THERE’D BE TROUBLE IF THE PRINCE KNEW.
BOSS: “Hullo, King Billy, you are going to have a big feed!”
KING BILLY: “My word! Makit Prince o’ Wales jealous-pfeller, mine tinkit it.”
merrily. The island, which is some acres
in extent, is fenced and under cultivation.
It would be difficult to estimate the total
capital value of the cattle and stock which
the island has accommodated at times when
the Snowy has overflowed its banks and
spewed its incomparably rich silt across the
flats.
COULDN’T FOOL HIM.
CITY FRIEND: “This is a very fine Venus—an old master.”
WOOP WOOP: “Gam, my boy—you can’t fool me! Anyone can see with alf an eye
it’s not an ’c — an’ a very nice one, too!”
“Pick”: A snake’s home is always where
his prey abounds, and where the surroundings
resemble his color. The
broadhead frequents the
reed beds of the swamp
flats. The frogs and cray-
fish of the morasses are
his daily fare, and in sea-
son he eats the eggs or
young of the water-fowl.
So closely does the varie-
gated green, grey, black
and yellow of his scales
counterfeit the criss-cross
of the reeds that to dis-
tinguish his form amongst
them is almost impossible.
Black snakes live on the
banks of creeks and gut-
ters. Champion swimmers
among their kind, they
spend much time in the
water, where they feed on
small fish, mussels and
young ducks. Their sooty
backs and bright-colored
underparts match the
mud of the banks and the
water-blossoms that
fringe the stream. Brown
snakes inhabit the clay
flats and sandstone hill-
sides. They prey on birds,
lizards and beetles. It is
only by the closest
scrutiny they may be de-
tected amid the clods and
stones strewn around
their habitat. Tiger-
snakes keep to the
. thickets and scrubs.
» There they forage for
bush rats, mice and other
small fry of the forest.
The brown and yellow
bands of their skins are
exactly the hues of the fern fronds and
bracken. The copperhead chooses ironstone
ridges. The bronze of his coat is indistin-
guishable from the rust of the stone-caps.
Young rabbits, bandicoots and rock-lizards
furnish him with a well-varied diet.
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: The red jumper is common in
New South Wales, but its nests, are small
compared with those to be found in parts ot
Q’land. I measured one on Hoganthulla
Creek, a tributary of the Warrego River, that
was 27ft. long and 12ft. wide. It was near
the road, and was a notable landmark.
Usually the red jumpers’ nest is circular,
from 4ft. to 12ft. in diameter. It is raised
only a few inches above the surrounding sur-
face, and generally on hard ground, prefer-
ably on a slight rise. No creatures in the
bush are more jealous and watchful of their
domicile than these stingers. A few sen-
tinels are always about, and at the least in-
terference with the precious citadel, _ the
defenders hop over in raging battalions.
When General Jumper advances with his
cohorts it is just as well to give him plenty
of room for manoeuvres. Though the nest
may be under a tree, there is never a leaf
or twig on it, unless one has just fallen, and
then the clearing gang will be busy removing
it.
•1* Jji 'l*
“Gemem” : “Womera’s” remarks about the
poor marksmanship of the Aitape bow-men
(B. 3/10/’2B) don’t apply to the kanakas
of the hinterland of Madang. To pass the
time when stationed there a few of us white
men had fairly regular arrow practice. Tir-
ing of it, one day I told my boy to return
my outfit to my room, which was immedi-
ately above the spot selected for the practice.
Looking through the window a few minutes
later, I saw arrow after arrow strike our
target, half a pawpaw, until there was
scarcely anything left to shoot at. Of seven
arrows fired only one was a clean miss, one
grazed and the others were bull’s-eyes. The
artists were three Madang boys, and the dis-
tance 20 paces.
* * * *
“Spadger”: That all the big timber on
the N.S.W. South Coast has not gone up in
smoke was demonstrated by a woodsman the
other day. Within a couple of hundred yards
of a dwelling-house in Austinmer he felled
a partially-burnt but still green and thriv-
ing turpentine-tree that measured sft. 6in.
in diameter when the first half-charred length
had been sawn off. Two hundred and sixty
mortised posts were cut from the tree, besides
several strainers.
(Continued on page 25. 1
AS FAR AS I CAN SEE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“So fur as I kin see,” he says,
And looks as wise as Watson’s cat.
As far as he can! Spare me days !
As blind as any one-eyed bat
He sees the world a kind of haze,
But goes on talking through his hat.
“The thing’s like this, ’tween you an’ me,”
He says, “so fur as I kin see.”
And then, “so fur as I kin hear,”
His formula goes cut-and-dried.
He carries all the deaf man’s gear,
But not much said goes far inside.
He gets things tangled up and queer,
Guesses what’s' said and guesses wide ;
And winds up with his tiresome song,
“So fur as I kin hear, you’re wrong.”
“So fur as I kin learn”—his tame
Old drivel babbles like a brook.
When one can’t read, or write his name,
His “learning” must be pretty crook.
It makes no odds, though, all the same;
He shapes as if he’d read the book
Of every prophet in his turn.
“It ain’t like that, fur’s I kin learn.”
“So fur’s I know”—•— he yaps again ;
And then I opens at him fair.
“Come off!” I yells, “you give me pain,
You’re talking to the blanky air;
What do you know? Just search your brain.”
“Oh nothing,” he says, plain and square;
“Somethin’ jus’ strikes me as we chat,
That’s fur as—well, it’s jus’ like that.”
By cripes! They get me fairly wet
With this pea-struck or hatter talk
That sounds so wise and has you set
As though you toed a line of chalk.
They show their ignorance—and yet
It’s best to give a miss in baulk;
Don’t argue; they must always be
Like that —as far as I can see.
s.A.
BILL O'C.


m
*
\
ZY-
&
S
z
far
*4
V
*V
•ifpl
For More Y ears and More Miles
Graham Brothers Trucks and Buses are famous for
their simplicity of design, ruggedness of construction
and the high grade material of which they are built.
Owners, as a result, testify to their profitable operation
year after year—wherever goods or people are carried.
Repeat orders for Graham Brothers Trucks and Buses
come most readily and in largest number from owners
who keep careful record of costs.... Their economy of
operation has been definitely demonstrated everywhere
Harden and Johnston, Limited, Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne .
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane — Townsville .
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
’Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland, N.Z. P. H. Vickery, Ltd. .. Invercargill, N.Z.
Amuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, N.Z. Newton King, Ltd. .. New Plymouth, N.Z.
Gossens and Black, Ltd. .. Dunedin, N.Z. Magnus Motors, Ltd. .. Wellington, N.Z.
Graham Brothers
Trucks and Buses
BUILT BY THE TRUCK DIVISION OF DODGE BROTHERS CORPORATION.
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
14/11/’2B.


5fiP(XPREtt
353
-■' ...••• '• vCt®||v
■illlllls
■ .. - - .-' V ' 'tijfe 4 -- 1
w»Sii
!. ,:. .
20 for 1/6
A.kdath tobacco
CQ, LTD., LONDON.
IVORY
TIP-
“Quartpot” : Old Joe had the floor. < Some-
one had said his dog Bessie couldn’t work
lambs. “Huh! Work lambs? One time, me
an’ Bob Logan was bringin’ a mob o’ mixed
sheep from down Riverina way up to the
Bogan. We passes a pub and Boh looks in
fer a drink. I pokes along with the mob.
Next mornin’, after I gets ’em all on the
move, I goes back to fetch Bob along. Some-
how, it was 10 days before we picks up the
mob agen. I’d left ’em in charge of Bessie
and a coupla ornery dawgs, and when wo
finds the mob they was near 30 mile down
the river, all camped, and Bessie was missin’.
NOT RESPONSIBLE.
DINER: “Waiter, I’ve seen it rain better soup than this.
WATTER: “Yes, sir But you can’t blame me for the drought, sir."
Thought she musta got pisened. When we
lands the mob about three months later
there’s five hundred missin’. We was goin’
back to look for ’em, but was kep’ busy on
the place for a week helpin’ with the markin’,
Then one day someone notices a cloud o’
dust way out; looks like as if it was ou the
stock route: and the boss sends me out ter
have a look. Sure ’nough, waitin’ at our
boundary gate, there was Bessie with the five
hundred missin’ sheep. She’d ’ad pups and
some of the sheep ’d ’ad lambs. Three
pups was bringin’ along the lambs behind,
so’s they’d not get knocked about, see? Three
sheep ’d died, and three other pups brought
along the skins. If yer don’t believe me, ask
Bob Logan.”
* * * *
“Wolumloo”: Jacky, well known in Narro-
mine district (N.S.W.), was inordinately
proud of his watch, a gift from the boss.
Some of the local folk knew Jacky couldn’t
read a clock face, and one of them, for a
joke, popped the Question to him, ‘‘What’s
the time?” The abo. whipped out the watch
instantly, gazed at it for a moment, and
then, his face registering amazement, ex-
tended the watch-face to the onlookers.
“Cripes!” he said 1 . “You wouldn’t think it
was that plurry time, would you?”
* * * *
“Boronia” : I nominate the red-gum tree of
Westralia as the champion long-distance
smoulderer. In November last year a bush-
fire brought one of these burly giants crash-
ing to the ground. I saw it in May last,
when an occasional thin wisp of smoke
indicated that the trunk was still burning.
Can this be beaten?
} jc :j: *l* H*
“Pfella” : When I started on the road look-
ing for work in Bananaland, I was dii’ected
to call on a farm on the offchance of secur-
ing a job. “Ask for Crocodile Joe,” advised
tny informant, and, at my look of doubt,
added, “the name will give you a leg-in.”
I arrived at the kitchen door and a woman
answered my call. “I —er —would like to
have a word with —er —Crocodile Joe,” I
stammered. The woman invited me inside,
and sat me down to a square meal. “Now,”
she said, “talk business.” “Madam,” I re-
plied, “could I please see Crocodile Joe; I
want to ask what are the prospects of a
job.” “I’m Crocodile Joe,” came the start-
ling admission, “and the prospects arc rosy."
They were, and during my sojourn on that
farm I learned that Crocodile Joe was the
sobriquet of her dead husband, and his widow
considered it a groat honor for people to
recognise her adoption of it.
:Jc *
“Tofi”: To the villagers of the Papuan
coast nothing is more important than the
building and upkeep of the tribal canoe, and
to this even the building of houses is given
second place. When the bucks of the tribe
have decided to launch a new craft, days
of search follow, till eventually a tree is
located of sufficient girth and with no de-
fects. Amidst ceremony the tree is felled
and the log dragged to the nearest stream to
bo floated to the village. Then follows the
shaping and digging out to the required
shape under the supervision _of the tribal
shipwright, whose word in his own sphere
is law. Carefully the log is screened from
the heat of the sun by a covering of bushes
until it is actually ready for launching, and
custom demands that the womenfolk must
not look at it during building operations
if the tribe are to have any future luck.
At the launching ceremony the foremost
toilers are loaded with gifts, invariably of
NO SLUGGARD.
"I suppose you have worked underground, Dads
“Underground! I was blawed to bits fower times down there, and the last tune I
sez to meself, ‘I’m up out av this like lightnm’ And sure 'nough in less 'n
five ’ear I got job up surface.”
food, not only from their own tribesmen
but from visiting tribes, who accord the
new craft the loudest of praises, secure
in the knowledge that when they rake up
the energy to launch a similar vessel tribal
etiquette will demand a return of the
compliment.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: The rugged, curiously-
fissured pile of sedimentary rock on Oenpelli,
N. Territory, known as Umblanyan, is a
veritable Place of Skulls.
The aboriginals of tbe sur-
rounding country have de-
posited the skulls of their
departed brethren in the
clefts and caverns of this hill
for many generations. Almost
every hole and cranny in
the hill contains a skull or
two, and in one of the small
caves they arc scattered
about in dozens. Many have
been destroyed or carried
away by collectors, but hun-
dreds still remain, and the
wastage is being made good
by the abos., who continue
the pious work. Black
Brother gives the place a
wide berth except when cus-
tom requires him to make an
addition to the gruesome col-
lection, and although he
offers no objection to the
inquisitive white pfellas’
investigations of his Gol-
gotha it is quite evident
that he has his own ideas on
the subject. In several of
the caves and at other places
in the neighborhood there are
rock drawings representing
turtle, fish, magpies, geese,
kangaroos and imprints of
the human hand. In some of
the drawings a weird effect
is produced by the artist
attempting to depict tlie interior economy of
the animal as well as its outward appearance.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: “They are not really black
but of a dark chocolate color,” writes an
English daily of the Australian blackfellow,
adding that “there are not far short of
100,000 of them, and they are mostly in
‘reservations’ where they continue the magic
and spells of their remote ancestors.” Pass-
ing the last assertion, isn’t our abo., if a
trifle lighter than the average African native,
a lot darker than the original inhabitant of
any other continent?
“Tim Ber” : In the Collie and Mandating
districts of Westralia there have been 358
busli-fires in the last four years, and the
fire-protection authorities, while they haven t
been able to trace the origin of some ot
them, say that in their opinion human
agency was responsible for every one. In
the 1927-28 season there were 40 fires.
Thirty-three were caused by the careless
use of fire by human beings, three were
ignited by sparks from railway locomotives,
one was a case of criminal incendiarism,
and in the case of three there was no evi-
dence as to origin.
“Hayband” : I nominate the magpie as the
most stay-at-home of Australian birds. My
place at Seven Hills (N.S.W.) is situated
about the centre of 11 acres. Through one
end flows a creek, lined with dense bush.
Birds annually hatched in that bush seem to
spend their whole life within at most 200
yards of the nest. I have never seen <me
fly out of my small selection. The magpies,
aiong with some kookaburras, peewees and
sundry other Australian natives, are fed at
the house twice daily, which may have some-
thing to do with it.
* * * *
“Atherton” : Many animals and birds are
good doctors. The cat and dog have a know-
ledge of medicinal grasses, and the duck can
select the right number of grains of gravel
to cure its indigestion. I have occasionally
noticed a sick bush bird rooting all by itself
for tucker not on its ordinary menu. Though
animals have an instinct as to what is good
for them, they have their poisons, too. The
camel has his ironwood leaves, the steer his
zamia plant, the horse his Darling pea. Occa-
siqnally a sort of flu runs through the bush,
attacking both birds and beasts. I have seen
wallabies dead by the score after such a
visitation, and the live ones so desperately ill
that they would scarcely hop from under a
man’s feet.
“Pfella’’: Far-Nor’-Western bucks woo
their sweethearts somewhat differently from
those in other parts of Australia. The lover
comes armed with his three-barb spear and,
selecting an unattached girl, reaches out his
spear until the barbs are out of sight in the
hair of her head. Then he twists the weapon
a few times and gently pulls his prospective
bride to her new home. The long spear is
also a favorite method for stealing a gin from
her husband’s side at night. The tug at her
hair acquaints the gin that another desires
her, and curiosity as to who is the tugger
sometimes leads her on until she has no way
of retreating to her own mia-mia.
CUDAHY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
*Tis to a friend named Cudahy
My thoughts stray back to-night,
Who ran a farm near Bullenbong
When life to me was sun and song
And all the world was bright.
From break of day to set of sun,
Into that little farm
He put his labor, time and skill;
For he was strong of mind and will,
And strong of heart and arm.
He cleared and ploughed, and sowed and
reaped,
And thought it shame that he
A task should slur, a labor shirk.
God, surely, in His forge at work,
Of steel made Cudahy.
But when the pine-trees nigh his house
Took on the dark o’ night,
From labor and from worry free
Another man was Cudahy,
Eyes bright and pipe alight.
’Twas then, with neighbors grouped around,
Arms folded, leaning back,
Smoke hovering o’er him, like a haze,
lle’d tell of bygone deeds and days
On run and road and track.
Of fights and sprees and jests he’d tell,
Of long and lonesome tramps ;
Or, maybe, quit his yarns and sing
Songs learnt in wayward wandering,
Songs heard in sheds and camps.
God fashioned Cudahy of steel,
But in the steel, somehow,
Set kindliness and tenderness,
For never callous to distress
Was Cudahy, I vow.
From his rough house among the pines,
Bight fine it is to say,
None empty went who empty came ;
With purse and cupboard ’twas the same,
Ne’er clasped, ne’er locked were they.
Wherefore it is to Cudahy
My thoughts stray back to-night.
Who farmed —and failed —near Bullenbong,
When nothing in the world seemed wrong
And everything seemed right.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


Wants.
Our Service Department
This page in set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
Service nyt^nS ’ * n(dud “ ls information, you are invited to write to the
in sideto s . erV * Ce * s ent i re .]jy f ree - All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons,
ibe right of selection and rejection is reserved,
a ac ' btate searc h if is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
By university-trained young lady, position
voyage to England. Experienced with
children.—7386.
By experienced countryman, partnership,
lease or offer for purchase of small sheep
property, improved, about 2000 sheep.—7382.
By experienced sheep-, cattle-man, work
station or as manager, book-keeper, etc. Rtd.
soldier. (To A. Bennett, 5 Silva-street.
Bondi, N.S.W. ’Phone F\V 2596.)
By married man (28), position shipping
clerk, Sydney or elsewhere; experienced.—
7340.
By young man (22), been journalist, store-
keeper, schoolteacher, position, North Aus.,
New Guinea, Malay States or Siam.—7311.
By experienced bookkeeper, accountant,
position N.S.W. country store, pay own
fare. —7346.
Eady, 10 years’ experience general office
work, seeks position, Australian concern
preferred or station.—7290.
By young woman, position, companion or
children’s nurse, west or south-west N.S.W.
preferred.—7259.
I ’osition as assistant on motor-waggon,
accustomed to handling bricks, driver’s
license. (To W. J. Wetherall, P.O., Ken-
sington, N.S.W.)
Position as housekeeper, vicinity of Syd-
ney. by elderly gentlewoman, experienced.—
7321.
By Queensland wool-classer (32), returned
soldier, employment, classing or sorting, Syd-
ney stores or country.—7322.
By specialist in oil-well engineering, a
position with a co.—7325.
By young man (21), technically educated,
position in Islands or Northern Territory.—
7348.
By lady, management of flats in Sydney.
Credentials.—7362.
, MSS. to type; special prices to free-lance
journalists. (To Miss Crawford, 7th floor,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, Sydney.)
Hillex enlarger. (To Mona McLeod.
Main-street, Bairnsdale, Vic.)
Lost, near Jerilderie, a presentation war
medal inscribed “Pte. F. Kafer.” Reward
for finder. (To N. Kafer, P.O., Tiglie’s Hill,
N.S.W.)
To sell, in excellent condition, Bruce
Peebles d.c. motor, 12 b.h.p., 460 volts. £25
f.o.b. (To P.O. Box 161, Gisborne, N.Z.)
To sell collection aboriginal implements.
—7260.
To sell “Birds and Beasts of the Greek
Anthology,” by Norman Douglas, 21s.—7263.
To sell Hassall’s course in drawing. Best
offer; cost £15. (To Lester P. Biddulph,
Lepidon, Canowindra, N.S.W.)
To buy newsagency business in north,
north-west or north coast, N.S.W.; popu-
lation 1000 or more.—7353.
To buy retriever dog puppy, pedigreed.
(To G. R. Dowling, Bateman’s Bay,
N.S.W.) *’
To buy old pistols and revolvers. (To
Peter Anderson, 45 Cameron-street, Launces-
ton, Tas.)
To buy Nos. 14, 34, 44 and 45 Hutchin-
son's “History of the Nations.” (To P. M.
Johnson, Box 270, Ayr, Q.)
To borrow “The Road” and “The Jungle.”
Will refund postage. (To S. H. Chance,
A.R.M., Iveen-street, Lismore, N.S.W.)
Copy “The Silent Battle,” by George
Gibbs. (To J. MacMullcn, care Strachan,
Murray and Shannon, Geelong.)
Words of “The Drunkard’s Fate.” (In-
quirer will find other verse in Farrell’s “How
He Died,” Angus and Robertson.) —7338.
“Drawing and Poster Course,” by John
Hassall.—7341.
Whereabouts of James Blackwood, who
left New Haven, Conn., U.S.A., in 1915, to
return to Australia. (To D. S. Imrie, Peera-
mon, North Q., or William Blackwood, 182
Main-street, East Haven, Conn., U.S.A.)
\Vhereabouts of Thomas Annam, one time
with N.S.W. police, stationed Deniliquin and
Berrigan. (To Alick Annam, 1011 Titirangi-
road, New Lynn, Auckland, N.Z.)
Information Sought.
Average price paid for butter-fat by co-
operative cos. in Queensland, N.S.W. and
Victoria for 1927-28 f —7110.
Information is not available. Queensland
and N. S. Wales pay suppliers for com-
mercial butter manufactured, manufacturers
being compelled under Government audit and
State legislation to account to suppliers for
every pound of butter manufactured from
the cream delivered. Victoria pays for
butter-fat. It is not possible to ascertain
whether the supplier gets paid for the whole
of the butter made from his cream.
How to tan a snakeskin for a belt? —7133.
Soak the skin in water for 24 hours; then
carefully scrape the back to remove all flesh
and fat. Make up a curing liquor of 4oz.
powdered alum, 2oz. common salt, to Igal.
of water, and soak the skin for 48 hours.
Wash and again scrape the back. Make up
another liquor, minus the salt, and soak for
24 hours; then wash thoroughly and hang
to dry away from the sun and wind. When
the skin is almost dry smear a little
vegetable oil on the flesh side and then dry
right off. To make into a belt it will be
necessary to line or back the skin with some
strong: material, such as canvas or duck.
Where is (or was) the itinerary of the
Woermann line? —72B7.
From Hamburg to ports on the west coast
of South Africa as far as Cape Town.
Is it practicable to make an ioe-chcst; if
so, what arc the directions t— 6628.
Anybody ordinarily handy with tools could
make an ice-chest. Write to Angus and
Robertson or Dymock’s, Sydney, asking for
a book containing the information. There
are many, some quite cheap.
(1) How many British convicts were trans-
ported to Australiat (2) How many free
immigrants and soldiers came out up to the
time transportation of convicts ceased I (3)
Number of convicts sent to American
colonies from England? (4) Are the
Quccnslai. I State coalmines paying, especi-
ally the Hartley mine? —73o2.
(1) From 1787 to 1808, 100,603. (2)
About 300,000 immigrants and 20,000 sol-
diers. (3) Hard to say; Bassett declares
that between 1718 and 1770 about 121,000
persons were transported to Virginia. (4)
A profit of £SO7O was shown last year by
the Bowen mine, but losses of £3079 were
made by Baralaba, £14,120 by Mt. Mulligan,
£3736 by Styx No. 2 and £5269 by Styx No.
3 —formerly Hartley.
If a hide is tanned by the lime-arid-alum
method, will it stay soft and pliable? —7l4o.
Lime and alum used together will be
inclined to cure a hide harsh. Salt and alum
are the best. _ If a cured hide goes harsh or
brittle, soak in cold water for a few hours ;
then hang to dry away from the sun and
wind, and rub a little vegetable oil into the
flesh side when almost dry and allow to dry
right off.
Particulars regarding unclaimed naval
prize money? —72ooa.
It is estimated that £195,000 is due to
nntraced seamen entitled to prize money, the
average sum due being about £8 10s. Only
naval men who saw service in a ship of war
at sea during the late war are eligible. The
amount payable in each case is dependent
on the rank or rating and the period of
service, e.g.., an able seaman is entitled to
five shares in the prize-money fund. These
shares are valued on a sliding scale up to
a maximum of £6 15s. per share according
to length of service at sea, the maximum of
£6 15s. per share being allowed for 30
months’ service or more. Naval Staff Office,
Bay-street, Melbourne, is the proper place
to apply.
Was there a time in N.B.W. when a father
could select land for a child?— 72loa.
Under John Robertson's Land Act of
1861 an infant could select land, but this
Act was amended by the 1875 Act, which
fixed the age at 16 years. John Robert-
son’s Act became law on October 18, 1861.
How to make a syrup that will not fer-
ment with garlic? —72l9a.
Cut up lib. garlic, cover with water, boil
till garlic is a pulp, then strain off liquid,
and add to this enough honey to make into a
thin syrup. If preferred syrup could also
be made by boiling two cups of sugar in half
a cup of water.
(1) I want to make a square earthen
tank of 500 cub. yds. capacity, with a\ depth
of 2 yds. and sides sloping at a grade of 3 in
1. What dimensions should it be? (2) What
is the formula for calculating capacity? —
6809.
(1)A tank 22 yards square at the top and
10 yards square at the bottom would have a
capacity of 536 cub. yds. (2) Multiply to-
gether in yards (1) length by breadth at
top; (2) length by breadth at bottom; (3)
length at top plus length at bottom by
breadth at top plus breadth at bottom. Add
the products of these three calculations to-
gether, multiply total by the depth and divide
by six.
What action should trustees take in the
event of one of their number acting dis-
honestly ? —7254.
Only safe course is to consult a solicitor.
About the climate of New Britain—can
white women and children live there? Could
a family man on £l9O p.a. save enough for a
future return to Australia?, —7273.
Though the. climate is tropical, white
women have lived there many years, and
children can be reared healthily. Living is
expensive, and the salary mentioned would
leave very little margin, if any.
(1) Is opossum-farming profitable? (2)
What conditions are requisite? —7lßl.
(1) That remains to be proved. (2) Large
areas would be needed to provide the natural
diet of leaves. The Tasmanian and N.S.W.
long-eared common opossum would be likelv
species.
(1) How many gallons of alcohol will a
ton of potatoes yield? (2) What would the
alcohol be worth? (3) What would a fac-
tory for the purpose cost? (4) Any other
inform ation f—6396.
(1) Depends upon the process and the
potatoes; between 30 and 50 gallons per
ton. (2) As rectified spirits, about £2 12s.
6d. per gallon whosesale; excise and the
cost of materials and containers would leave
a very small profit, if any. (3) Something
substantial, since to guard against illicit dis-
tillation the Federal Government has fixed
the minimum capacity of stills at 1000 gal-
lons. (4) Potato spirit contains a good
deal of amyl alcohol, not much in demand
in Australia. “Distillation of Power Alco-
hol,” obtainable from the Commonwealth
Government Printer, would give you infor-
mation on the whole subject.
What should be a fair ration for an ordi-
nary carthorse? —726l.
For a carthorse of 35001 b. liveweight
(average work), oats, 6-Slb.; cracked maize,
4-61 b.; bran, lib.; and chaff 35-201 b.
How to secure instruction in caponising
and cost of instruments? —7226.
Caponising cockerels is not a difficult
operation. Instructions are given with the
sets, purchasable at Anthony Horderns’, 17s.
6d. to 325. 6d.
How to clean and preserve used paint-
brushes? —7235.
Brushes after use should be cleaned with
turpentine and then allowed to soak in a
mixture of half turps and half raw linseed
oil. They should not be allowed to rest
on the bottom of the container; a hole should
be drilled through the handle at such a dis-
tance that when a piece of wire is passed
through and the brush suspended, the bristles
are just clear of the bottom.
(1) Arc shoes sold as such made of real
lizard skin? (2) What price is given for
lizard skins by manufacturers? —7153.
(1) Many were when the fashion was in
vogue, large quantities being made both in
Sydney and Melbourne, but the skins came
from South America, India and Java, Aus-
tralian lizards being pronounced useless.
The bulk of the “lizard-skin” shoes seen,
however, were ordinary calf, kid or even
sheep skin embossed by machinery. The
fashion has now passed.
llow to soften rabbit-skins cured with
alum? —7lßo.
Soak skiny in cold water for a few hours,
then hang lo dry away from the sun and
wind. When they are almost dry rub a little
vegetable oil into the flesh side and allow
to dry off.
Do morphia and cyanide counteract one
another in any way? —7247.
No. Were even a minute dose of cyanide
to be taken after the injection of morphine
it is more than likely that death would fol-
low quickly, since both drugs in some respects
have similar actions on the human system.
(1) Where do mirages occur, and what are
common forms? (2) Causes? —7200.
(1) In arid parts of Australia and other
countries in the form of lakes ; in the images
of ships' and icebergs, frequently seen as if
inverted and suspended in the atmosphere, in
the Polar regions; then there are the Fata
Morgana, seen in the Straits of Messina, and
“looming,” as witnessed in mists or fogs. (2)
Regarding visionary lakes, the heating of
the sand by the solar rays causes the neigh-
boring air to expand. When an object is
viewed across such an area two sets of rays
operate, and the object appears double; it is
the sky, like a shining lake, that is seen
mirrored in the sand.
_ Any more information about the cultiva-
tion of sisal hemp in Australia, mentioned
B. 3/10/’2B ?
Sisal hemp was first grown at St. Helena
(Q.) ; there was a mild boom in 1902-03-04.
Fairly large acreages were planted about
Childers, in the Burnett district (Q.). The
weight of the best Mexican leaf is lib. lOoz.;
Queensland-grown leaf ran to 31b. The
machinery used is simple and inexpensive;
comparatively large machines, motive power
included, cost from £350 to £2OO. There is
no regular season for planting or harvesting.
The best country is poor, gravelly, rocky, but
high ground; however, it takes four years
to obtain a crop. Moa Island Mission, in'
Torres Strait, and the Arakun, Mapoon and
Mitchell River Missions now grow sisal
hemp. On these stations the cost of labor
is negligible; the real problem is cost of
transportation to market. But it has been
established that the plant will grow as far
south as Brisbane.
How to combat the tick pest, which is
doing much damage in Queensland poultry
yards?—' 7236.
The Department of Agriculture and Stock
publishes an excellent pamphlet, “Menace of
the Poultry Tick,” which should be obtained.
The matter is one mainly of the infestation
of fowlhouses—only a little portion of the
life of a tick is spent upon fowls. All crates
returned from market, etc., should be exam-
ined, and so should new birds before they
are introduced to a yard. The spraying of
every piece of timber is necessary; this kero-
sene emulsion is recommended : 1 gallon water,
boil in it lib. good household soap, add 1
gallon kerosene, stir well and add 8 gallons
water. Birds with seed ticks should be
thoroughly dipped in a 2 per cent, formalin
solution.
How to destroy the pumpkin beetle? —
7297.
Arsenate of lead, lib. powder to 20 gallons
water; spray thoroughly, especially upper
surfaces of leaves. After third spraying con-
tinue to spray individual places where beetles
are concentrating. Younger plants should
be dusted with mixture of arsenate of Pad
(one pint) and slaked lime (nine parts).
Another dust is a 5 per cent, mixture of
nicotine sulphate and slaked lime. All dead
pumpkin and melon plants should be cleaned
up and burnt.
Is boiled pollard mixed with separated milk
a suitable feed for poddy lambs? If not,
what feed would be suitable?- —7165a.
The natural feed for lambs is sweet milk
and for young lambs especially no other food
should be given as a substitute. Skim milk
and pollard might be given to lambs over
one months old, provided care is taken to
make a gradual change from the sweet-milk
ration.
Information Supplied.
6992. —Address of “Argus” : Napier-strpet
Fitzroy, Vic.—“ Ula.”
7225. —Expert rabbi ters never trouble
about decoys other than the enticement
afforded by freshly-turned sods. Poisoned
baits placed on such sods, especially when
mixed with raspberry jam, will be found a
sufficient lure at most times. There are
periods in dry seasons when the rabbit will
not take any bait, and the rabbiter must
a wait rain before he can make a catch
“Pick.”
7038. —To make a brooder for 50 chicks
knock the two large sides from a kerosene-
case and stand it on its side. This gives
you four walls about 10 in.ches high. Cut
a small hole in each side for chicks to enter
and leave. Pad the inside with flannel, felt,
hessian, etc., rounding off the corners, so the
chicks cannot huddle in them. Now make
a hover which justs fits in the light
wooden frame covered with flannel, with strips
of the same material about 5 inches long,
which will hang down ana serve the dual pur-
pose of helping to keep the chicks warm and
keeping them from huddling together. The
hover, of course, is not fixed, and should be
moved higher and higher as the chicks grow.
Mount the whole on a board which pro-
jects a few inches at each side, and keep
floor covered with sand and soft dry grass.
This, of course, is a cold brooder, a type
almost universally used in Australia. —“Jack
Point.”
Brief Answers.
A.R.P.: They are not listed on any Aus-
tralian Stock Exchange, and are apparently all dead.
. ...A.H.M.: At present prices, Q.N., National and
Adelaide show the best return. Write to any member
of the Sydney Stock Exchange. .. .L.C.E.: Avery
good list. Can't see much chance of accretion in
No. 3. Think No. 2 seen their best rise. Offer no
opinion about No. 6....A.K.H.: If you contracted to
buy a bond, as you probably did, and cannot complete,
your only course is to make the best terms of
compromise you can John C.: Queensland
Insurance.... A.G.W.: After holding so long, better
risk it a bit longer 0.H.F.: Believe the co. lias
dropped the agencies which cost it many thousands
and will concentrate on a couple of American cars.
There are risks, of course, but present selling rates
are not attractive... .Gayfielder: Width of block is
approximately 52 chains 80 links. Run the fence
47 chains 13 links from each corner. .. .Ko Ko:
If the transfer was registered, a re-transfer is all
that is necessary; if not registered, it may simply
be destroyed. .. .Ashley F.: Shearers’ cook (less than
ten men), £4 12s. 6d. p.w. and found, in N.S.W. ;
casual hand droving sheep, 265. p.d T.P.: The
“pointer” is to mark the registration when you
inspect the instrument, enabling you to judge the
variation on subsequent inspections. .. .Strawberry:
Write Gordon and Gotch, 509 Little Collins-street,
Melbourne, for a list. .. . W.N.: (1) A contractor
with his own team quotes his price either at per
ton per mile or for the job. Usual price in N.S.W.:
Is. per ton per mile. (2) No occasion; but a union
ticket is always useful. .. .R.11.M.; United Service
Club, London, should find him. He retired in 1921.
. ...J.P.H.: Until 21 the youth is a minor; the
legal recognition of his adult responsibility makes
him a “man.” The age has varied in different ages
and countries. ... ILL.: Any ordinary tie, of quiet
light color— not black. .. .R.H.M.: (1) Present system
as near crook-proof as possible. (2) Julian Rose
—he may have secured it from someone else, but he
built it up.... John C.: You probably mean “The
Death of Napoleon,” by Montgomery... .G.E.K.: The
paper is prepared with adhesive material. Moisten
evenly with sponge or damp rag, and then place on
pane.... Foul Plate: Best to forward the plate to
a dentist for removal of tartar and repolishing....
Mungina: The R.A.S. says your query about weights
of Clydesdales and bullocks is unanswerable —it
depends upon the particular animals compared, and
no averages can be struck Alick A.: A pension
indicating a disability of under 30 p.c. cannot Be
commuted. You might apply to the Walter and Eliza
Hall Trust, 14 Martin-place, Sydney, for a little
assistance... .L.R.: Re your violin, get into com-
munication with A. E. Smith, 68 Hunter-street,
Sydney... .R.H.M.: Prices of the new cars vary
from £2lO for phaeton or roadster to £335 for
sedan; the co. says it is selling all the chassis it
can get from overseas K.A.J.: (1) Type and send
direct to selected publisher. (2) Curtis Brown, Ltd.,
6 Ilenrietta-street, Covent Garden, London, W.C.2.
. ...J.C.R.: Population of Calcutta and suburbs
(1921), 1,132,246 Freelance: (1) Quill Club,
23 Nassington-road, Hampstead, London, N.W.3. (2)
Curtis Brown, Ltd., 6 Henrietta-street, Covent Garden,
London, W.C.2 R.E.M.: See B. l/2/’2B for in-
formation re typewriter ribbons, as you file the
paper. Pass ribbon through pad of cloth saturated
with glycerine; rub off, but not harshly, with dry
pad before mounting on machine G. D. Mac:
Facts disclosed present little solid material; executors
would require something more specific. Should
claimants want to go on, let them make their
claim to executors, and support it by their own
affidavits and those of others who can corroborate.
J.W.P.: Mere use of a patented material in its
manufacture should not prevent your securing a
patent for your invention; but it would be as well
to make arrangements with the makers. Sydney
agents are Winnings, Ltd., Sussex-street... .William
TANARUS.: Write Superintendent, Police Dep6t, Bourke-
street, Redfern, N.S.W Tractor: There should be
no difficulty in obtaining contract work with tractor
and plant in N.S.W. wheat areas. About March
would be the best time in such districts as Wyalong,
Barellan and Ardlethan R.W.C.: Stainless knives
are made of a specially prepared steel... .0.L.: The
lawyers’ advice is undoubtedly correct; there is no
other course. Damage has to be proved and loss of
services in the future Johns: Promotors get 10
per cent., leaving £90,000 ; State dividend tax is
10 p.c., which reduces the amount to £BI,OOO ;
Government then takes 124 p.c. income tax on the
prizes ( £10,125), which leaves £70,875 —the amount
distributed, the value of prizes being nett... . J.G.A.:
Agents for the Evinrude outboard motor are Duval
Trading Cos., Kembla Buildings, 58 Margaret-street,
Sydney... .R.H.M.: Chrylyssa is run by “Mr. A.
Solbriek”; without his permission the actual name
cannot be disclosed... .R.H.M.: (1) Both are correct •
“ship” has a specific application, but is also a
general term. (2) The adoption by early leaders
of the Christian Church of a Jewish practice of
limited fasting before the Sabbath. (3) There are
no complete world figures of money expended in pros-
pecting and working oil shows... .C.C.: The N.S.W.
Housing Bill not having reached its final stages
information is not available. Get in touch with
Government Savings Bank manager at Leeton....
P.P.: Hairdressing is taught at the Sydney Technical
College; fees are small. Write superintendant,
Technical Education Balds Hill: Write Lycett
Proprietary, Melbourne, re extraction of oil from the
castor plant R.M.H.: The directory will give you
the very long list. Look up woolbuyers, etc.....
T.E.M.: Ship’s striking (eight bells) clock, £3
7s. 6d., Kleemo and Cos., Clarence-street, Sydney.
. ...H.L.: You could, but the process would be
costly. The pine is placed in an air-tight iron
still, heated slowly and uniformly. The tar, as it
volatilises and comes away, is caught and condensed
in a water-cooled condenser. It contains other
chemical compounds, the separation of which is an
involved matter, but for all practical purposes in
this crude state it is Stockholm tar L.G.E.: (l)
Wireless; not unless the student has a bent for it,
with opportunities for experimenting. (2) No, but
desirable if age permits.... (Many others mailed.)


A. New BURROUGHS
BooKKeeping Machine
*
m
m
ms
m
W
W"
w
***
t.
r
n
W
•to
t-ii
y'r
:->>
m
a
m
jy
i 1
m
m
■ :
1
A
c
• a
8
ri
is.
: . ••
.
v :
S 3
mi
* *. ; ;
,
■
9
This feature maxes it possible for
this machine to do work that
formerly required two or more
operations. Figures automati-
cally accumulated or stored in the
extra set of adding wheels can be
subtotalled or totalled by the
operation of this lever.
Requires
Fewer Operations
HE New Burroughs Dupex-Subtractor
Automatic Bookkeeping Machine requires
**■ fewer operations, saves time, prevents
errors and offers positive proofs of accuracy
such as have been hitherto unavailable in
machine bookkeeping. For Accounts payable
and Receivable, for Distribution, Stock
Records, Payroll, Banks, and a host of other
applications, the New Burroughs Duplex-
Subtractor affords new and greater savings.
Only a thorough demonstration can give you a
true picture of this machine’s value to you on
your own work. Write or call for more
information.
Sole Distributors:
IRA L. & A. C. BERK LTD.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
I
’Phones: FL 2671 (five lines).
Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Brisbane
Rockhampton Auckland Dunedin
Hobart Perth
Christchurch Wellington
Newcastle
□
□
Adding
800 kkeeping
Machines


PEAPES
Useful, appreciable Gifts—
for men AND their sons.
It is not the easiest thing to
choose a gift for a man, but at
Peapes’ the problem is at once
simplified.
Peapes have just published a
portfolio of illustrations and prices
of articles certain to meet with
a man’s wholehearted approval.
A copy will be forwarder! to any
address promptly on request.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
A
•X
mm
■Vi
X
M : SHV
r.J
“Its Quality Never Changes. '*
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
The
Clip
4
h.
may be small or large in size, attractive or otherwise
in quality and condition. That’s not the point. Every
grade of wool and every bale or even bag of it has
its correct market value. And if this action is taken
that full value will be secured.
Send the Wool to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Selling Brokers, LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE,
Who secure grow-ers highest possible figures for every
bale or bag they sell.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
PIT SILOS.
“Nomis”: The ideal silo would be a thor-
oughly airtight chamber, and, theoretically, a
deep silo in which the mass of fodder would
be thoroughly compressed, and thus made
airtight, would be ideal. In practice,
however, very deep silos have not been found
economical as far as the west of N. S.
Wales is concerned. They are expensive
to excavate, and the deeper the silo
the more difficult it is to get the silage out.
. To-day the pits are generally made about
6ft. deep, rarely more; the length varies, but
about 80ft. is the rule at the surface, with
slopes of 1 in 3 at the ends—-so that the
length of the floor of the pit is about
44ft. The pit is not made very wide, never
more than 20ft., and preferably narrower;
all that is required is sufficient width
to permit a dray or lorry to pass
through. The slopes at the ends enable lor-
ries or drays loaded with green fodder to
pass in and out, and thus help to press and
pack the silage. Some farmers refer to this
modern narrow type of pit silo as a “trench
silo,” and the name is certainly appropriate.
After emptying a pit, and before refilling
it, it will be found necessary to trim the
walls and sides of the silo; and after being
filled a few times a pit becomes too wide
for the best results. The fodder is piled
as high above the ground as the pit is deep,
and care is taken to obtain a uniform settling.
The whole mass is then covered with the
help of scoops to a depth of 9in. or Ift. with
soil. Such a pit holds 70 to 80 tons, and
can be easily emptied.
To facilitate handling when emptying, the
sheaves should be arranged in tiers as when
stacking, and not placed all lengthwise. On
reaching the surface the sheaves should jut
over the edge of the pit slightly; if this is
done then when the mass settles these
sheaves will be dragged down along the 3ides
and leave no space. It is through failure
to attend to these details that cracks and
spaces occur between the silage and the walls
of the silo, and through which air and water
enter and deteriorate the mass. The pits
require little attention when once made
except to replace any soil which may be
washed off during heavy rains.
THE WAR ON PMOKLY-PEAR.
Bananaland’s Prickly-pear Land Commis-
sion, which has jurisdiction over an area of
100,000 square miles of pear-infested coun-
try, has achieved in the four years of its
existence all that it set itself out to do and
a bit more. The spread of pear, except in
the cattle-grazing country in the northern
part of the area, where heavy expenditure on
clearing is not justifiable, has been definitely
stopped, and there is considerably less pear
in Queensland to-day than when the Com-
mission took office. The great majority of
freeholders and leaseholders have co-operated
with the Commission, assisted by the fact that
the Commission buys poison at half the prices
ruling before it came into existence, and
sells these and the apparatus with which they
are applied at well below cost. The poisons
used—arsenate pentoxide for young pear-
growth and a proprietary chemical for old
and dense growths—have proved extremely
efficient.
. The most interesting part of the .Commis-
sion’s, war against the pest is the biological
offensive. Such spectacular results have been
attained that landholders are clamoring
to be supplied with insects instead of poisons,
the insects being very much cheaper, and,
so far as present experience teaches, much
more deadly to the pear. The Commission
has a very good reason for its refusal to
allow the general use of insects outside its
own supervision.
. Three sorts of grubs have so far been en-
listed in the Commission’s insect army. The
first-used of these, the cochineal insect, was
introduced by private persons before the Com-
mission took charge, and with it were released
parasites, indigenous to Queensland, which in
some cases reduced the efficiency of the cochi-
neal by 75 per cent. The second, Ghelinidca
tabulata , works well in co-operation with the
cochineal, and apparently doesn’t suffer from
parasites. But the third, Gactoblastis cac-
torum, which lias accomplished almost in-
credible pear-destruction, is the prey of three
sorts of wasps, which develop inside the
caterpillars and cocoons and destroy their
hosts. The Commission, before releasing
c actoblastis eggs, makes sure they are free
of parasites. If they can be kept free, the
Commission reckons that inside 10 years
prickly-pear will cease to be a serious pro-
lem.
Another branch of the Commission’s
activities is a war on emus, crows and scrub
magpies, which have adopted pear-fruit os
their main diet. The price set upon their
heads is 2s. 6d. for emus, 6d. for crows and
4d. for magpies, and emu eggs are worth a
shilling. Nearly £13,000 was paid out in
the year ended June last under this heading.
The Commission costs the Q’land Govern-
ment £lOO,OOO a year. In the latest year’s
accounts administrative costs amount to only
£16,690 —11.6 per cent. Poison cost £83,300
and insects £7400. Sales of poison, etc.,
realised £41,650. The State seems to be get-
ting good value for its money.
SHOEING.
“Hortus”: In shoeing a horse, the wall,
being the weight-bearer, must be rasped
perfectly level or the foot will be thrown out
of its true position, causing extra strain
on some of the ligaments. Fit the shoe
accurately to the outline of the foot; do not
alter the foot to fit the shoe. Rasping away
the exterior of the crust to fit the shoe not
only renders the horn brittle but entails loss
of bearing surface.
The sole should not be touched with the
knife; loose flakes may be removed with a
blunt instrument. The bars should not be
cut away; they are a part of the
wall, and are intended to carry weight. The
shoe should rest on them. The frog should
not be cut, but left to attain its full growth.
No frog can perform its functions unless
it is level with the ground surface of the
shoe.
The shoe should have a true and level
bearing and rest well and firmly on the wall
and bars. A lightweight shoe is the best—
plain on both ground and foot surface.
High nailing is injurious; don’t use more
nails than are absolutely necessary, as they
destroy the horn.
WORMS IN HORSES.
“Paul C.”: Worms in the small intestine
of the horse sometimes reach a length of
48 inches. An indication of their presence is
the prevalence of an obdurate though slight
diarrhoea, the expulsion of faecal matter
being followed by a watery discharge. When
these symptoms appear the horse should be
given a bran mash at night, kept in the
stable or yard till morning and then given a
drench of a pint of linseed oil mixed with
an ounce of turpentine and two drachms of
lysol; administer slowly and keep well
shaken.
Worms in the large intestine are usually
from half an inch to two inches long. When
a horse has these he is generally pot-bellied,
rough-coated and a bad doer. Diarrhoea is
present as a rule. To get rid of these worms,
let the animal fast for 24 hours. Then two
ounces of turpentine in a pint of linseed
oil should be given as a drench. In both
cases it is advisable to repeat the treatment
in a week’s time.
THE COW-COCKY’S TROUBLES.
“Melos”: Cow-cockies don’t lead the easy
life described by “P.M.” (B. 31/10/’2B).
They rise about 3 a.m., wake the new-chum
by beating a petrol-tin, and, after a hur-
ried breakfast, begin the teat-squeezing.
After milking, there are separating, carting
the cream to> the stand (which is often over
a mile out), feeding the poddies and pigs,
shifting stock from paddock to paddock,
ploughing and other jobs to do, until it’s
time for more milking! At night-fall Chum
and his master arrive at the homestead eager
for tea and bed. On wet days they mend
leaky tinware, roofs and guttering. It
requires more than a few good seasons to
give the cow-cocky luxuries and comforts.
If a dry spell comes along—and you can
bet your bottom dollar that'there will be
one in every span of five years—the bank
overdraft gets topheavy, the tradesmen say
nasty things on the bottom of their accounts,
and it takes several good seasons to wipe
off the indebtedness.
“Picking up half your living for nothing”
sounds. very nice, but cow-cockies aren’t able
to do it. As a rule they don’t grow vege-
tables and the consumption of milk and
butter in their homes is very small. They
see too much of iff Firewood and pastures
don’t mix well, so cocky has to go a con-
siderable distance for his load. Eggs are
gathered at the expense of a good deal of
energy, and the missus pounces on the pro-
ceeds to help pay the grocer. As for gos-
siping with neighbors, that’s out of the ques-
tion in my district, because not one has a
voice that can carry to the next-door farm.
OPHTHALMIA TREATMENT.
“Drover”: Horses’ eyes become affected
during drought, when scums and often total
blindness prevail. In the latter case the
eyes become affected from the stomach, prob-
ably through eating some poisonous weed.
Once a scum appears on the eye a remedy
must be applied at once, otherwise the sight
will become impaired. If caught in time,
powdered boracic blown into the eye will
probably remove the scum, but failing that
something stronger must be used. Powdered
bluestone will remove the worst of scums,
and if used carefully will not injure the
prad’s sight.
In no circumstance use vinegar, powdered
glass or sugar. They cause the horse untold
agony and while they may remove the scum
they are likely to permanently injure the eye.
I’ve tried powdered alum and fine salt with
success, but in ordinary circumstances boracic
powder has proved the safest and surest
cure. Affected horses should be treated
twice a day, and a change of fodder or
pasture is recommended.
CHECKING WOMBATS.
“Gundy”: For its size nothing on four
legs can do so much damage to a netting
fence as a wombat can, and many remedies
have been tried more or less successfully.
By far the most effective is the pit-trap.
This device has been in use for many
years on boundary fences for catching rab-
bits, and the method of construction is
similar for wombats except that the pit re-
quires to be more sturdily rnadif The average
pit is sft. x sft. x sft., all except 18in. of
width being on one side of the fence (pre-
ferably the lower). A frame of sawn lim-
ber is placed over the hole. Trap-doors
(two on each side of fence) 4ft. long by Ifd.
wide, placed end to end, are made of Gin.
x Jin. hardwood, and each pair is adjusted
so as to collapse when trodden upon, after-
wards returning to the horizontal. To attain
the correct balance, rods of iron are put
through the framing, and the doors fastened
to these by staples. A movable lid covers
the rest of the pit, and through this opening
the victims are removed. Strong timber,
well fitted, is necessary for walls and floor-
ing, as a caged wombat takes a lot of hold-
ing. A few panels of netted wing-fencing
conduct the quarry on to the drop.
The proportion of marauding'' wombats
must be small, as big colonies have been
known to live close to a fence for years
without doing any harml But a few cul-
prits can work a lot of mischief and a well-
placed pit will protect at least a mile of
netting fence.
HOW TO TELL THE AGE OF A PIG.
“Poker”: When a pig is born it usuallv
has eight teeth, four tushes and four tem-
porary incisors; when it is about two weeks
old the temporary molars appear; at four
weeks four incisors appear, two in the lower
jaw and two in the upper; at two months
the front molars appear. All the temporary
teeth (or what are known as milk teeth)
have appeared by this time. When the pig
is about months old a tooth appears just
behind the temporary tushes on both sides.
The fourth molar will also appear in the
upper jaw. When it is about nine months
old the corner incisor teeth generally fall
out and their places are taken by others
which are permanent. The temporary tushes
will likewise be displaced by this time. The
grinders will also appear about the same
time. When the pig is a year old the centre
incisor teeth will fall out and their place
will be taken by permanent ones. When it
is about months old all its teeth should
have appeared.
A SKIN DISEASE OF SHEEP.
A disease of sheep which, though fortu-
nately of rare occurrence, has been found
in many parts of Australia, and is infectious,
has recently been investigated by 4he Glen-
field Veterinary Research Station (N.S.W.).
The first symptoms are a heaping up on the
skin of thick, scabby yellow masses which
bind the wool together. Later this crust
separates from the skin and can be pulled
away, taking the wool with it, leaving the
skin raw and very liable to become fly-blown.
A similar disease is fairis, a form of ring-
worm, found in mice, rats and cats.
The sheep disease is a fungoid growth,
and no method of treatment save shearing
and repeated dressings has been devised’
Where only one or two sheep are affected
it is best to destroy them at once and burn
the carcases.
CLASSING RAMS’ WOOL.
“The Bat” : Owing to the amount of con-
dition always carried by rams’ wool, it must
not be put in with that from other sheep;
but it must be sorted. Where a farmer has
only a few rams of the same class, and there
is sufficient to make a bale, the fleeces need
only be skirted and put in together, the
separate pieces, etc., being bagged, but where
there are a number of rams of different ages,
the wool must be classed according to con-
dition. Except with mixed breeds, the
quality in merino rams’ wool does not vary
much, but still it is often necessary to pay
attention to the quality. Condition, however
is the main item to be considered, and all
black-tipped fleeces must be kept away from
those that show a broad and clean tip. The
younger rams will not carry as much con-
dition as the older ones, and in most cases
the wool can be classed according to age.
In flocks where merino and other breeds are
mixed, the classing should be facilitated by
using the drafting gate, so that each class
may be shorn separately, avoiding the mix-
ing of pieces, bellies, etc.
On many stations the stud sheep are shorn
at a different lime from the general shearing,
and not much trouble is experienced with
the wool; but when the rams are brought in
with the flock sheep, ,every eare must be
taken. Many farmers, put rams’ fleeces in
with their best wool, thinking that because
the wool is from a ram and is of fine quality
and of heavy weight, it is equally as good. As
scoured it may be, but, they cannot get
weight and price both. Other farmers care-
fully place rams’ fleeces in the middle of a
bale of light-conditioned wool, hoping the
buyers will not discover the false packing.
A farmer may get away with this once or
twice, but eventually he wili be caught,
and the future sale of his wool will be
jeopardised.
UNPRESSED BALES.
“Breed” ; Many farmers 1 have spoken to
on the subject of having bales re-pressed say
the buyers think pressed wool belongs to
dealers. That is not so, for the broker’s
catalogue will show that the wool belongs
to a farmer and has been re-pressed by the
broker. The small charge for re-pressing
may mean pence per lb. difference, as an
instance will show. In 1920 two small far-
mers on the Darling Downs bought and
divided a flock of 1000 wethers, and had
them shorn almost immediately. The two
flocks were shorn and classed separately,
though one farmer did the classing, so the
get-up Avas practically the same. One had
his bales re-pressed at the broker’s, whilst
the other sold them as they were, with the
result that the wool in the re-pressed bales
averaged twopence pet pound more all round.
Both own their own presses now.
SAFEGUARDS AGAINST FLUKE.
“Tuan”: The infestation of sheep with
fluke may occur earlier this year than usual
owing to the early summer which is being
experienced in parts of Australia, and snail
destruction should be commenced at once.
The disease may be completely eradicated
if destruction is completed before the young
fluke leave the snails and attach themselves
to grass, to be swallowed by sheep. Although
sheep frequently do not show marked effects
of fluke infestation until the winter months,
in most cases they become infested during
the summer and autumn.
Spreading of copper sulphate (bluestone)
ground to a .fine powder and mixed with sand
in the proportion of 251 b. of bluestone and
1001 b. of sand over all marshy areas and
springs, if efficiently carried out, will destroy
all snails, and this is the cheapest and most
satisfactory method of preventing losses
caused either directly or indirectly by fluke.
It is essential, however, that every suspicious
area should be treated, and that action
should be taken immediately.
COMBATING CODLIN. .
“L’Fou” : The codlin moth seems to be de-
veloping a degree of immunity to the poison-
ous sprays that have been used upon his clan
for generations, and many orchardists are
finding the pest more difficult to control
than it used to be. Regulations limiting the
amount of arsenical residue on exported
fruit preclude the use of stronger sprays.
Whether the grub is less susceptible to
poison than formerly or not, growers would
be wise not to depend entirely upon sprays
as a defence. As many as possible of the
pests of the previous generation should be
destroyed before they reach the egg-laying
stage. Clear away all loose, hanging bark,
rubbish, large clods and loose earth so that
insectivorous birds can do their work. Props
used to support heavily-laden boughs last
season should be searched for creviced bark,
which will shelter codlin. Lures consisting
of fermented apple-juice, hung in vessels
about the trees, will attract and drown many
moths just prior to their egg-depositing.
Lights, such as a small, cheap night-lamp,
floated, in vessels of water in which the
light is reflected, will attract and destroy
many moths in the first warm spring nights,
when the codlin attack is most active.
Old-fashioned hessian bandages round the
tree-trunks will also do their bit if the
grubs found on them are regularly destroyed.
Burn or otherwise destroy flip codlin-
infectcd fruit that falls, or, better still, pick
and destroy it before it falls. You can


1
Low-sided . . and
better fitting!
This Abbey shoe allows fuller
freedom because the sides are
cut lower, while the lacing curves
over the instep in an arch that
follows the natural shape of the
foot. No tightness—even brand-
new.
The shoe is made of supple
willow calf most comfortable
leather for ordinary wear. The
sole runs in even thickness from
tip to heel.
POSTAL ORDERS: Narrow,
medium and wide fittings avail-
able in full and half sizes. State
width when ordering, and ask,
also, for a supply of Abbey Dark
Tan Polish, correct for the shoe.
(6d. per tin.)
Dark Tan Calf . . 50/-
Ncw enlarged catalogue post free on
request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.
L 98 SYDNEY
YOU NEVER SEE
ďf
The Gulf
Champion.
£l5/15 -
Complete.
Posted any-
where in Aus-
tralia for 10/-
A Second-hand
GENUINE
WIENEKE
SADDLE for Sale.
WHY?
Because wK e n a
horseman buys one
he won’t part with it.
Nuff Said!
Send for my new Book
—l5O Pictures —Post
Free.
JACK WIENEKE,
c/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 George St., Sydney,
and
43i2 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease lias caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
vet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by tne
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can De
applied to the sheep, and these are skiltully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
4/6 5/- each
6/6 7/- each
1 pint tins
1 quart tins
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
y Beyond an HM.V Portable
iture /
I if on bu
fit.
Specialising in H.M.V Portables.
£ll cash or terms arranged
TheTALKERIES
477 Q.V. Buildings /Opposite Lowest
W&W26.
WMMm
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old broad Street, E.C.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRANfc
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association Cm,
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
DO YOU WANT TO ENTER A PROFESSION?
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life. A profession in
which competition is limited and which offers wonderful opportunities if you have any ability
and are persevering. Our tuition gives opportunities to students not to be found elsewhere.
Write for our booklet, telling of positions, salaries and fees, to-day. Start your new caieei NOW.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE PASTORaL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
ALL CLASSES OF INSURANCE EFFECTED.
Probate Disability, Extended Insurance, Non-Forfeiture,
Hospital, Medical and Nurse’s Fees Combined.
Make the event which causes the tax create the cash to pay the tax.
HEAD OFFICE: Hunter House, 26 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
A. McLEAN, Managing Director. R- V. BOOTH, Secretary.
INQUIRIES INVITED.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY Also at WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales (WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
Throughout the Year l HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock, Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney.
» U VWV) ' • - ~ *
JAMES KIDD, General Manager for Australia.
1
1H
Adda
A F\F> A is the world’s most practical small adding and
calculating machine. Weighs less than 71b.
Anyone can operate; just pull down the dial. Full instructions and written
Guarantee. Suits the pocket, too. £l5 Cash with order; free delivery in Aus-
tralia. Capacity with farthings, £lO,OOO. Used in small stores, offices
and garages all over the country. Machines slightly used, £B/15/-.
Full cost allowed if exchanged for new make within 3 months.
ADD AC SERVICE CO. (Dept. B.),
1 BOND STREET, SYDNEY. (Agents wanted.)
Learn to Think and Speak on Your Feet.
Tha power to make others grasp your ideas and act upon them—in other words the ability to
speak convincingly-can be developed in anyone. Directors, Secretaries, Salesmen and all ambitious
men who desire" to improve in speechmaking should send for particulars of SPEAKER S
NOTES” (the wonderful Home Study Course in the Art of Speaking) to PHILII O 15Hi EN
lIOARE, M.B.t.M.Sc. (London), Specialist in Speech and Speech Defects, oC> Brisbane Arcade,
Brisbane.
do that at thinning-out time. The grubs
carried over from season to season keep tne
pest going. ,
When vou can do no more on the lines
above indicated, get your spray out ana
apply it as soon as the petals are tail.' •
Give an encore in a fortnight. lhe lat_-
sprays will depend upon the season - and tne
varieties grown.
LEAD ARSENATE SPRAYS.
‘•Hop Scrub”: “XsA’s” directions regard-
ing the use of lead arsenate (B. 10/10/ jo)
are good as far as they go, but there are a u
later developments that he has omitted. Al
the standard brands are supposed to be basic
arsenate, but, even so, be careful ot nsing
soap with them other than soft soap. Jne
best spreader is calcium caseinate, and ".ben
thoroughly mixed with this no burning
will result. A pound of caseinate to 10U
gallons of wrnter is the allowance. A homely,
but reasonably efficient, substitute is a pint
of skim milk. . ~
The new light miscible oils are valuable
additions to the arsenate spray, at the rate
of 11 gallon of oil to 100 gallons of water.
Add the oil to about a quarter of the tank
full of water and the lead arsenate n.ext.
The oil is a good ovicide as well as acting
as a spreader. ~
Bordeaux and lead arsenate is probably a
better mixture than lime sulphur and lead
arsenate, but Bordeaux is liable to russet
apples and pears if applied at the calyx
stage and later. Bordeaux is a good fungi-
cide, and is required in every, citrus orchard
where scab, black spot and melanose are
troublesome.
IN PRAISE OF BRAHMINS.
“Wingella” : Brahmin cattle can be found in
thousands in the N.T. and have been estab-
lished for over a century, running wild all
over Arnhem Band, and providing many
an out-back settler with beef and a good
income from the sale of hides, horns and the
like. Most of the cattle bred in the North
(as distinct from Central Australia) have
a good deal of Brahmin blood in them, and
so stand up to sandflies, ticks and abnormal
seasons with impunity. The Brahmin cattle
were imported here from India when the
first settlements were planned, together with
the Indian buffalo; and the herds, finding
the North to their liking, increased and
flourished. No matter how old a Brahmin
cow is, the meat is always tender and rich,
though the bulls toughen up with age.
THE DAWSON VALLEY SCHEME.
This is A. F. Partridge, Commissioner of
Irrigation and Water Supply for Queensland,
under whose
capable direc-
tion the Daw-
son Valley
irriga tion
area is attract-
i n g many
settlers. Two
hundred and
twenty - bine
farms, aggre-
gating 16,332
acres, have
been taken up,
many of the
block - holders
being practi-
cal farmers
from N.S.W.
and Victoria.
Cotton has
hitherto been
the staple
crop, up to
20001 b. per
acre having been gathered,, but the-experimen-
tal farm has proved the suitability of the sou
for wheat, oats, millet, maize, sorghum, citrus
fruits and rice, the last-named having yielded
a 90-bushel crop. Almonds, pecans and wal-
nuts are being tried, also tung-oil trees.
So the Dawson Valley won’t lack scope for
enterprise.
PURE-BRED AND MONGREL FOWLS.
“Jack Point” : The superstitions seem deep-
rooted in the minds of most farmers that
mongrel hens lay as well or nearly as well
as pure-bred fowls, and that the latter are
more delicate to rear. The first belief seems
to be based on the fact that a first cross
between two pure breeds will generally turn
out better birds than either of the ancestors.
But one cannot get good stock from the mat-
ing of these crosses. To maintain a first-
class flock of first crosses you need to keep
two pure breeds to breed stock from, as well
as your flock of crosses, which cannot be
used for breeding. This is twice as much
trouble as having one pure breed and using
your best laying pullets as breeders the
following season. , , ,
The second belief is no better than a bush
superstition. Any pure-bred fowl will give
a good return with just ordinary care and
attention, whilst with a little extra care
they are such profit-earners that a farmer
who tries them -wonders why he didn’t start
sensible hen-farming years ago. Christmas
is coming, and it is a good season to get
rid of all your mongrel poultry and have a
go at something better.
POULTRY-YARD MEDICINE-CHEST.
“J.A.” : A good medicine-chest, always on
hand to meet sudden emergencies, is neces-
sary for poultry. Over a period of many
years I have found the following to be
indispensable:—
lodine. —Apply with a fine brush to the
mouth. It is a cure for colds and throat
complaints. Two applications, with an inter-
val of three days, will be found useful for
blistered lobes.
Condy’s crystals.—Always add these to the
drinking water. It is there that many dis-
ease germs are picked up. Use only a few
grains—enough to give the water a slightly
pink tinge.
Epsom salts. —Useful for liver troubles,
constipation and for expelling from the
bowels substances that are usually the
cause of diarrhoea. I do not favor violent
purgatives like castor oil.
Kerosene and sweet oil. —The former is the
remedy for scaly leg; the latter is effective
in the treatment of the minor non-contagious
ailments of combs, eyelids, etc.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Hortus”: To preserve eggs, take one
quart of salt, one pint of slaked lime and
three gallons of water. This will keep them
good for years.
“Gundy”: When being unrolled ware-net-
ting has a tendency to describe a semi-
circle. The slack edge should be placed in
the ground.
“Sheik”: If you have uncobbed corn
w r hich you wish to use for feed, leave it on
the cob —it keeps much better. But don t
give newly cobbed corn to horses; it is
likely to gripe them.
“Sylvester”: Keep a bottle of raw linseed
oil handy to your work-bench. Saturate
a rag with it and rub over tool hand.es
before use; also when storing them away.
It wall double their life.
“Puttee”: A very successful method of
poisoning foxes and dingoes in use in the
nor-west of Westralia is to trail a carcase
and hang it in a tree at chewing height.
On the ground beneath strychnined honey is
smeared. One good lick is sufficient.
“Reko”: Artichokes make good feed for
chickens, but they contain a great amount
of starch and are fattening, so they should
not be given to pullets, otherwise they will
not be given to pullets. For young cock-
erels they are excellent.
“Sutro”: To make concrete without
cement, add 15 barrows of sand to eight bar-
rows of slaked lime well deluged with
water. Do not use river or beach sand, as
it absorbs moisture. Mix to a creamy con-
sistency, add 60 barrows of coarse gravel,
and work well. Stones 9in. or lOin. hr
diameter may be put into this mixture, which
sets as hard as rock.
“Eureka”: When the generating tank of
an acetylene-lighting apparatus is cleaned a
milky fluid is drained off. This makes excel-
lent whitewash and will not peel. It is par-
ticularly suitable for painting cowbails, calf-
pens, etc., owing to its antiseptic properties.
“Werrimee”: A German gardener who
grew French beans for the market planted
them in stools, half a dozen seeds to each
bunch, covering a circular patch about a
foot in diameter and each bunch a foot
apart, instead of straight along the rows m
single file as others did. He got good results,
especially in hot weather.
“Land Girl”; The finest vegetables I ever
saw were grown in a flax-milling district in
Auckland province, M.L. They were ferti-
lised with the green refuse scraped from
the flax fibre. The owner of the mill tried
it on his garden, and got such splendid
results that lie now has no need to pay men
to cart refuse away. Every kind of vege-
table thrives under this treatment, and root
sorts grow to an enormous size, maintaining
good flavor and tenderness.
“Gay Ha”: When rocky country is being
cleared rabbits will take refuge in narrow
fissures where they are visible but out or
reach, and the presence of the pack will
only make them squeeze in more tight.y.
Take a length of straight fencing-wire the
end of which has been broken off by bending
backwards and forwards, leaving a slight
hook. Push this hooked end in between the
rabbit and the rock, then twist the wire.
After a couple of turns the hooked end gets
a firm grip of the rabbit’s fur, and by pulling
gently, but firmly, he is easily dragged out.
“Animbra”: To make yellow soap for
general purposes, mix 61b. fat (without salt),
11b. caustic soda, -£lb. resin, 2 gallons water.
Boil for three hours. This makes about
251 b. A cupful of kerosene poured into the
mixture and well stirred before tipping into
the mould will leave the boiler clean. lo
improve the lather half a pound of borax
may be added when boiling. Gut into bars
and leave fpr a month. If the mess thickens
prematurely, stoke the fire.
“Mimosa”: Pure mange m horses is diffi-
cult to cure. As a shipper for years, I tried
every known cure and found only one sure
cure —a Boer remedy. Add to 2 quarts
water lib. sulphur and lib. washing-soda.
Boil for at least six hours, adding water
throughout to make up for evaporation.
When cool rub well into the affected parts.
Twelve to twenty-four hours later wash thor-
oughly with soapy water, to which a little
lysol has been added. Then for a week rub
in whale oil, or if that is not obtainable
lard (unsalted) with a little sulphur added.
“Nota Bene”: When a horse is afflicted
with strangles and a vet.’s services are not
available the animal should be isolated in a
stable or loose-box with a rug on him. Put
a tablespoonful of eucalyptus or turps into
half a bucket of boiling water. Put a horse-
rug or a sheet of some description over the
bucket and the horse’s head, letting him take
two or three breaths of the vapor, then re-
move for a minute or so; then another
few breaths of the inhalant. Do this three
or four times twice a day. Watch the jaw
for swellings, and blister swellings to cause
them to break. Do not give a drench, but
feed on green stuff, bran mashes and liquid
food. If the horse has a bad cough, make
a paste of equal parts of Stockholm tar and
treacle; smear about a tablespoonful on his
teeth twice a day. Don’t wmrk the horse too
soon after recovery.
“Boronia” : The trees and stumps “Simple”
shifted with gelignite (B. 17/10/’2B) must
have been small enough to have been lifted
out with a mattock. High explosive placed
in the ground in the way he suggests is of
no earthly use. The result is merely an
almost inaudible report, and a hole in the
ground. The stump remains rooted and in-
tact. The only practical method, if you
must use explosives, is to bore a hole and
place the gelignite in the centre of the stump.
This is what advertising will do. Six
years ago Australian producers of sulphate I
of ammonia—that is, the big gas companies]
and the B.H.P. co.—got together to see
about increasing the Australian consumption
of sulphate. The result is that whereas
only 6500 tons were used in 1922 (year ended
30/6/’22), there were over 14.000 tons used
for the year ended 30/6/’2B, and the ambi-
tion of producers to sell within the Com-
monwealth every particle of production will
no doubt be realised this year. That means
that every ounce of the 16.000-odd tons pro-
duced here will be used here by our fruit-
growers market gardeners and small farmers.
Westralia is the best consuming State in
proportion to cultivated area, with Banana-
land filling second place.


On a
Sept e "'f
Morning
f \D.'9o^
— Now — Twer.
SILVER t
HROUGHOUT the er
1 Motor Industry, there
success attained by Buid
name “ Buick ” represen
reliability—trustworthy pei
power, and enduring value
And now comes the Silver An
a milestone on the road of Buk
leadership won and held for a qu<
it a further tremendous stride for
/H)
N
cr
I
V<!"
//;
i
3ns
nn
*ui
z$
H P 0
tS^
/
m
E
M , (k m °n>h »/ f
m in the City J
A" * "mC/S
5 - r -
-/ ..the run aS
' hrelim inary f at ur f e ' mn ni Company
i a nuaryi . . cars were
b ° rn 1 l first year 268 ,698
Vurmg y«* mi lUon
made. 1n192 ’ factur ed. da ] ° l 10 4 nations,
cars were man «/ roads f fgrrn .
Z^7^°^ or dep
ZTslond to none.
o
a*
o
GENERAL MOTORS
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.


iltj Five Years of Leadership
Results in the
ANNIVERSARY BUCK
entire history of the
*e is no parallel to the
t Everywhere the
nts motor cars of
erformance, balanced
r#
e.
Jiniversary Buick to mark
lick success, celebrating a
uarter of a century. With
irward has been made.
There is a new responsiveness, a quicker, smoother
get-away, and a remarkable ability to pick up speeds
on heavy grades. With increased bore and stroke the
new engine is larger and more powerful, providing
seventeen per cent, more power, and a notable increase
of speed.
To see it is to understand that it has all the elements
of style and distinction. With bold, sure strokes, its
designers have created a really outstanding appearance
for this most popular of fine cars.
On the road, in traffic, speeding gloriously, or creeping
smoothly, watch the New Buick.
IN ELEVEN SILVER ANNIVERSARY MODELS:
121—91 h.p. 129—91 H.p.
116—75 h.p.
5-Pass. Touring - £430
4- Sports Roadster- £445
5- Sedan - - - - £530
4- Roadster ■ £530
5- Sedan - - £635
7-Pass. Touring - £585
7-Pass. Sedan - - £795
7-Pass. Limousine - £845
5-Pass. Brougham Sedan -
5-Pass. Sports Tourer -
4-Pass. Convertible Coupe -
£755
£595
£650
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
!
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MELBOURNE: Lane’s Motors Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE: Metropolitan Motors Ltd.
SYDNEY: Boyd Edkins Ltd,
ADELAIDE : Vivian Lewis Ltd,
PERTH:
E. D. Toe Motors Ltd.
ilMiiij
J
X'
-v
s\&.
IV
7/a
k
I


Quality Quoted tie demand
Quality tAe Safe
Army Club
lO for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper .
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
&
tv**
m
m
,-iC-
-0*!
&
CORK TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
BAR STRIKE COLLAPSES.
MEN FLOCK BACK TO WORK.
The strike which has dealt a paralysing
blow to litigation in N. S. Wales during
the past month came to a dramatic
yesterdav morning. Mr. Buncombe, K.C.,
the leader of the militants, whose manner
had been growing increasingly peculiar for
some days past, electrified the usual stop-
work meeting at 10.30 a.m. with the an-
nouncement that he was the Pope of Rome-
He then wrote a cheque for five million
pounds sterling, which he handed_ to the
secretary of the movement. “Divide it
amongst those members of the profession,”
ho said, “who have had to suspend the in-
stalments on their t.-p. motor-cars. If they
want any more they know where to come.”
So saying he proceeded to take off his
trousers. He had undressed almost com-
pletely when the police arrived, threw a
blanket round him, and bore him away in
an ambulance.
He is sojourning at present in a mental
home, where he is, professionally speaking,
WHEN INTEREST IS CAPITAL.
“I wonder if I could interest your boss in a new card system?”
“No, I don’t think so The only thing he’s interested in at
present is me.”
the life and soul of the party. “One of the
most interesting, yet at the same time typi-
cal, G.P.I. cases that we have encountered
for a long time,” said Dr. Dippy to our
representative.
WHAT OF THE LOYALISTS?
The problem which has now to be faced
and overcome by the profession is bound
up in the position of the loyalists. It must
never be forgotten that they came to the
aid of the litigious in the hour if need. They
stand (unflinchingly) on a charter issued
to them by Parliament itself, and they are
justified in doing so.
“Vill I get out, izzit!” ejaculated Mr.
Herbert Spencer (born Oscar Vcnceslas, of
Vilna, and formerly a prominent Communist
orator). “Certainly not. I’m an Aussie,
und I know my legal rights, aind’t it !
Mr. Spencer has worked up a consider-
able practice, chiefly on the criminal side,
which he is naturally reluctant to forego.
The position taken up by the rest ot the
free workers Is materially the same.
NO REPRISALS, SO FAR.
So far, the former strikers are holding
themselves well in hand, though the spec-
tacle of their supplauters being given ail
the most remunerative work is naturally
galling. The loyalists are proceeding to and
from the courts under police protection, and
the men have attempted no reprisals up to
the present. They are contenting them-
selves, apparently, by refusing to pay free
workers’ fares on trams, blackballing the
newly-enriched advocates who are put up for
the clubs, and cutting them and their wives
dead at the races.
APPALLING LOSSES.
The State Statistician estimates that, by
this mad demonstration of the class-conscious
spirit the stupendous sum of £57.320 17s.
3d. has been lost in fees and refreshers alone.
10-2-4.
Melbourne Herat,i>: —
“Church Shifts 4G Feet in 3G Years.”
And yet carpers say it’s not progressive.
* ¥
Lady Duekham wants to take some Aus-
ralian flowers back to England. She’s wel-
come to all our Garden.
* *
A visiting American boasts that in
Arizona the prickly-pear is turned into
candy. What of it? All over Austalia res-
taurants are turning shark into snapper.
M At
The Vic. Pre-
mier has been giv-
ing advice on how
to run raffles. Ours
is to run from
them.
* *
THE JOLT.
He took her to
Henley. On Derby
Day they were
among the cheeriest
who paraded Flem-
ington’s great lawn.
Cup Day saw them
again at the races
and more devoted
than ever. After
dinner he sug-
gested a slio w.
They went. Then
supper and a
crowded hour at
Melbourne’s most
exclusive after-
theatre dancing re-
sort. As he was
leaving her at the
door of her flat
that nigh t —o r
rather morning-
lie said : “Tell me,
dear one, before we
part, is there any-
thing else in the
world that I can
do for you?” She
thought a moment,
and then, “Just
one thing,” she hesitated shyly, “do you
know I never. .. .really. .. .caught your... .
Here —I may as well lash it out. What’s
your name?”
LIZZIE'S HINT.
“Billy.—Everything comes to those who wait. I
am stili waiting. Lizzie.”—Age agony ad.
Everything comes to those who wait.
So, William , get busy!
For, whatever she seeks to indicate
By the Gallic proverb we thus translate,
It is certainly clear, at any rate,
You’re everything to Lizzie.
A Melbourne Argus correspondent sug-
gests a tax on cats. An ameowsment tax, in
fact.
THE VETERAN’S MEMOIRS.
“And what did you do in the W harf W ar,
Dad?”
“I was a striking stevedore.
“Yes, I know, but”
“I’ve no patience with your modesty,
interrupted the boy’s mother testily. “Tell
him, without any more nonsense, how you
laid the policeman out with a bit of iron
wrapped in the Argus.”
“No need to fly off the handle, old girl,
chided the husband. “But it don’t do to
appear flash before the kid. Well, son, it
was this way. I was a gunner—did most
of my service as O.C. a blue-metal dump,
having always been fairly hot stuff with a
stone” , .
“But what about the policeman, Dad;
ECONOMY.
The Scotch undertaker buries a one-legged man.
“Yes,” chimed in the mother. “Tell the
child about the deed that Hans Ginkelmugger
said should have won you a decoration.”
“It; was nothing—nothing at all. I did no
more than my duty.”
“Tell him at once. You know perfectly
well what the Pan-Pacifist Gazette said—
‘Nothing more splendid has been done in toe
annals of universal brotherhood.’ ”
“It was this way. I’m at my dump sling-
ing metal at free workers, ships’ officers,
policemen and the like, and mostly getting
home. Suddenly I sees a policeman on his
own. Cut,off from his cobbers he was, and
running sort of aimlessly, having just
copped a beauty in the eye from one of the
lads of my battery. He’s crossing No Man s
Land, and just near St. Paul’s Cathedral,
as the boys called the dump, when bmg! _ I
got him on the helmet. Dropped like a six-
o’clock drunk, he did, and we slung him over
the pier.... No, I never heard what hap-
pened to him afterwards.”
“Who was Mr. Ginkelmugger, Daddy—
the gentleman who said you should have been
decorated?”
“Him! Oh he was our general; directed
the operations, did all the staff work.”
“I hope he didn’t get hurt.”
“Ginkelmugger get hurt! Don’t be silly.
son. I said he did the staff work. Don’t
you know that a good staff officer always
chooses a safe possie? Ginkelmugger had
the nous to go to gaol before our war began. ’
.T. D.
The Labor party is a regular break-up.
BENCH BROMIDES.
In an abduction case at Cootamundra
(N.S.W.) his Honor, before passing sen-
tence, said: —
“I think this young lady was very fascinating.
If you are really fond of her, I hope you will take
care that nothing happens to her in the future.
She is quite attractive and, apparently, intelligent.”
Smith : “I am willing to marry her.”
His Honor: “But she may not be willing to
marry you.”
It is a form of chatty paternalism which
might even be extended in the interests of
our common humanity. Some possibilities:
Embezzlement: —
“I was much struck, prisoner, by the
charm of that bank manager. I like his
clothes; and there was something positively
lovable about his manner. If 1 wanted an
overdraft, he is the type of financier I would
approach. You are in a better position, in
the nature of things, to estimate him as a
man than myself, but I am sure that —not-
withstanding his devastating evidence against
you—you will be the first to admit that,
as a personality, he ranks high. Let us hope
that you may foregather with him often—
in five years’ time.”
Arson: —
“Gentlemen of the jury. I have visited
the scene of the prisoner’s misguided effort
to get £2OOO out of the Universal Insurance
Co., Ltd., and I must say—and I fancy
he will be the first to agree with me—that
a more picturesque spot for a crime of the
sort could hardly
have been selected.
The view in the
direction of the
ocean is sublime.
Nothing now re-
mains of ‘Kosy
Nook’ but a
charred heap of
r u i n s—a tribute,
by the way, to the
quality of our
Roma kerosene—
hut one can recon-
struct the villa as
it was; seeing that
there are 75 others
of a similar design
in the street. With
its 50ft. frontage,
its tiled roof, its
bath-hearer, and its
city water supply
it; must have been
a thing of enchant-
m e n t Ten
years.’’
Murder: —
“From all I can
learn of your victim,
prisoner, he appears to have been one in
a thousand. You heard the testimony of his
widow. ‘During ail our married life,’ she
sobbed, ‘lie never so much as raised a hand
to me,’ when sober.’ I am assured by the
defendant parties who viewed the remains
at the inquest that his benign appearance
in death bore out the afflicted lady’s tribute.
How you brought yourself to cut the throat
of such an admirable member of society
passes my comprehension. _ You will have
an opportunity of expressing your regrets
to him in another and better, world—to be
precise, in three weeks’ time.”
D. J.
Motorists are in bad odor in the • Back-
blocks. They cause conflagrations by leav-
ing dying fires by the roads, and lamenta-
tions by leaving dying pedestrians on the
roads.
THE BRANCHES THAT BORE THE
FRUIT.
“So Flossie Footlytes married your brother?
Fancy her climbing into your exclusive
family-tree!”
“Yes, but she got there on her own limbs,
my dear.”
“Housing Bill.” But why no mention of
his wife and kids?
Edward Cox was fined fl at St. Kilda
for driving his car against a signal. The
Cox’s steering again at fault.
THE UNIVERSAL QUERY.
“A scientist has been trying to wireless Mars, on
a wave-length of 18,000.” — Cable.
The scientist gazed through his telescope
vast . , j
At the clusters of planets and stars
"It seems easy to me, very easy,'’ said, he,
"To arrange for a message from Mars.
They sent off his wireless, then waited a bit,
And got a reply in due course.
They studied it long. “If we’ve not got it
wrong,
It's a question in Marsian Morse.
“Why they sent it to me I don t follow,’
said he,
“But, problems I never give up.
The reply, as I make it (one cannot mistake
it).
Is, ‘Woddidgerbackinthcrcup?’ ”
LEW W.
POLITICAL REFLECTIONS.
“In the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly, a Minister
was persistently referred to as ‘old garbage-tin.’ ”
The lofty imag'ry of icords, the eloquence
superb,
The cultured allocation of the adjective and
verb,
The soul-inspiring gems of thought
And phrasing delicately wrought,
Alas! are but the noiset within
An animated garbage-tin!
D. McM.
COMPENSATION.
Of feathery lightness were the cakes
That lovely Phillis made;
Of fairy lightness was her form,
Her kisses half-afraid.
And silken were her weightless gowns,
Her undies of gossamer —
And light, of heart was Henry
As he lightly danced with her.
Vast was the form, of Martha Jane
Whom Henry made his bride :
Like lead •she hung about him. as
A one-step once they tried.
Solid as lead her dampers felt,
For solid was her hand —
But solid was her bank account.
So note you understand.
N.S.W.
MAEY AITCH.


'll/ W
\ji/ H iTfsooßE
/
/?V
0
«
%
ns
mM~y
mil ?/h
i
m
B
«i 4
m
fl
wS •
M
vT , , '
(7 ' ’ S v
ISO
m
*2
/V
fi
\;f<
\wm
■x
yr
f
l/in
y/y
m
y
iigUj
Jl
\
o
m*
@3
busy meeting old
(Australianjriends
NET'
Johnnie Walker
Whis yis guaranteed
pure and mature —
the same quality all
over the world.
The Fossicker
«I_JAVING any luck ? ”
"No, she’s not panning out too well. There’s
not much gold left in these parts now, my friend.
A speck or two once in a while, that’s all.”
"Well, cheer up. At least you have the con-
solation of knowing that there is sufficient liquid
gold showing up in a world of dross to keep
us all in good heart.”
JOHNNIE
WALKER
WHISKY
Born 1820 ~
Still going Strong
JOHN WALKER 8C SONS LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, London and Kilmarnock


Where Perfect Cuisine, Beautiful
Surroundings and the Spirit of
Revelry Combine to Make a
Memorable Evening's Enjoyment.
Come Soon :: Come To-night.
You’ll be glad you came.
MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY,
THURSDAY, FRIDAY.
DINNER DE LUXE. 7.30 12/6
SUPPER, from 10 o’clock ...’ 8/6
SATURDAY-
LATE NIGHT OF DISTINCTION.
A Superb Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
Special Supper, 10 o’clock .. 12/6
True Relaxation, Substituting Joy and Delight.
DELIGHTFUL TEA DANSANT, WITH
SPARKLING CABARET,
3 to 6, 4/-; 6 up, 3/6.
Saturday, 3.30 to 5.30, 51-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
4%
NEW INTEREST RATE.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia will in future pay interest at
the rate of 4% on the first £5OO of deposits, ?>i% on excess over this amount
up to £lOOO, and 3% on excess over £lOOO up to £l3OO.
Society Accounts, 4% on full balances.
PURPOSE ACCOUNTS.
Purpose Accounts may now be opened at any Branch of the Bank, to provide
for special expenditure, such as holiday expenses, medical expenses, Christmas
extras, higher education for the children, purchase of expensive articles, etc.
From one shilling per week, or fortnight, may be lodged for a period of three
months or more, and interest at 4% will be added.
Any number of Purpose Accounts may be opened, and the nature of the purpose
need not be disclosed.
Full particulars from any Branch of the
Commonwealth SavmasJßank of Hustralia
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Gable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
COONARDOO.
“THE BULLETIN’S” GREAT £500 PRIZE STORY.
By- Ketharine Susannah Prichard.
"‘I’ve dreamt so often of doing this, Youie she explained ‘And I ain’t tell you how
it eases some queer pain in me. You seem able to breathe and think better
in the bigness out here!.'”
Illustrations
by „
C. H. PEBCIVAL.
Synopsis : After the death of his
mother, Mrs. Bessie Watt. Hugh, horn
and brought up on Wytaliha station, in
the north-west of W.A., takes charge,
and , as his mother hadl done , allows the
aboriginal station workers to live their
accustomed life. When, after a severe
illness, he returns from G(raidton with
his hastily-wooed wife, Atollic, he finds
that Coonardoo, wife of Warieda, has a
son. and knows that the infant (called
Winnin g-arra ) is his child. M ollic,
who dislikes station life before her
first daughter, Phyllis, is born, openly
resents it by the time the fifth arrives.
Becoming suspicious, she forces Hugh
into an admission of the parentage of
Winning-arra, and, as thigh will not
send Coonardoo, Warieda and the boy
away, she takes the children to Perth.
Warieda, “boned” by an aboriginal
magician, dies, and Hugh announces
that Coonardoo is his woman, mainly
to prevent her being taken from the
station, an arrangement which greatly
amuses Sam Geary, a station-owner
who has a . gin mistress and who had
once bet Hugh that he would make a
friend of a gin. Hugh is seriously
embarrassed by drought when his
eldest daughter, Phyllis, returns unex-
pectedly and announces that _ she is
going to stay because she likes the
station life.
HUGH’S eyes had all the stirred tender-
ness of his new emotion. It was as if
the gay and lovely companion he
had dreamed of in his youth had been
given to him when he was past hoping for
her. And that she should be his own
daughter!
“Your grandmother liked being here,” he
said.
“And to think of her having made the
place, worked it and given it to you like
it was.” Phyllis looked out over the plains,
where the rising moon was like a fire in
the mulga. Bound and golden, dinged on
one side, it came slowly over the dark of
the trees.
“I’ve always felt I ought to be a son to
you for her sake. Dad. I’ve wanted to be.
And all I’ve done is drain all the money I
could out of you with mother and the
girls. Think of it, all the years you’ve been
up here, through the heat and the droughts
—slaving for us! And all we’ve ever done
is squeeze you for every penny we could
get—to play the fool, drink, dance, chatter.
Oh it makes me mad!”
“The place is heavily mortgaged, my girl,”
Hugh said, “and every day things seem to
be getting worse instead of better. I had
to write to your mother —explain to her that
her allowance would have to be cut down.
“I know, that’s why I came. Do you
know what I’ve been dreaming?” Phyllis s
voice was very eager. “That I can do what
grandmother did, help you to make the place
again—throw off the mortgage!”
Hugh smiled into the young face which
was so serious now. “You’ve got her spirit,
Phyll. There’s more of my father in me. I
haven’t half the grit she had.”
Phyllis took possession of the big, bare
room which the little girls had regarded as
theirs. It still held the chest of drawers
made from fruit boxes, with a faded cretonne
curtain sagging along a string in front of it.
The pegs on which their small clothes had
hung were still screwed beside the window,
and some of Phyllis’s and Coras first alpha-
bet scratchings in colored chalks, and draw-
ings of birds and pointed houses with
smoke coming out of the chimneys, still
stalked gaily across the pale-green wash on
the walls. The bullock-hide stretcher, on
which any stray man who was passing
through Wytaliba had slept since the
children went away, stood ready, with clean
sheets and pillow-cases, as Coonardoo
always kept it.
“But you can’t stay here, you can’t stay
here!” Hugh groaned as he looked round
the bare, shabby room, bringing Phyllis’s
suitcase in and putting it down beside the
box cupboard with the small, square,
wooden-framed mirror on top.
Phyllis sat down on the seat under the
wide-open windows at the end of the room.
“The trouble is, my dear,” she said, “you
can’t get rid of me—unless you want me
to make that trip to the Argentine that
Garry’s been suggesting.”
Hugh gazed confounded and aghast at the
young, pretty thing before him —his
daughter who looked
move like a good-looking,
rather effeminate boy, in
her straight-up-and-down
tussore frock with skin-
colored silk stockings
over her slender legs.
Phyllis took a comb-
case from the pocket of
her coat, pulled a little
comb from its gold
monogrammed tortoise-
shell case and raked back
the wave of her black
hair. Then she went up
to Hugh, put her arms
round his neck and kissed
him.
“We’re going to be
cobbers, old dear, aren’t
we?” she begged. “I’m
going to work with you,
learn to run the place
like Gran did?”
Hugh stared at her,
abashed and wondering.
He admired her so, was
so touched by her way
with him. A passion of
tenderness gripped and
shook him.
“It seems too good to be true,” he said.
“Wytaliba’s your home. You’ll stay here
as long as you want to, of course. I’ll try
to make the place fit for you, Phyllis.
CHAPTER XXIV.
In the morning Phyllis came from her
room, stepping jauntily in buff-colored
riding breeches, a white blouse, and tan
boots over the ends of her pants. Her
hair was wet from the shower, and her eyes
as eager as a child’s.
Hugh could scarcely believe his eyes;
he felt foolish with happiness every time
he looked at Phyllis, as if he must break
into a silly giggling. It was so unexpected
to see her there and remember how she had
come.
Phyllis sat at the end of the breakfast
table and poured out tea. They ate and
chatted together. She took a cigarette case
from her breeches pocket, passed it to Hugh,
lit up and smoked.
“Chitali and the boys are out after a
horse for you,” Hugh said. “We’ll ride
out to the Fifty-mile, if you feel like it.
The mill wants looking to.”
Phyllis laughed happily. “The old Fifty-
mile still playing up, is she?”
* Coonardoo’s eyes lighted to a smile as she
carried off a pile of dishes.
“Is Coonardoo coming too?” Phyllis
asked.
“Not to-day.”
“Remember the day Persephone bolted
with me, Coonardoo, bumped me off into
a karrara-bush, and we came home double-
donkey on Thetis?”
“Eeh-mm.”
Coonardoo was as pleased and surprised
as Hugh about the girl.
“What happened to her, Dad?” Phyllis
asked.
“Thetis? Oh, she’s out at the Pool. We
don’t work her now.”
“And Persephone?”
“She’s there, too.”
“What am I going to ride?”
“Oh” Hugh hesitated. “Chitali’s
bringing in Daphne and Damon, and”
“None of your old crocks,” Phyllis warned.
“Boys cornin’!” Coonardoo called from
the verandah.
In the morning sunlight that flooded the
plains the distant line of mulga was grey
and misty blue; acacias, the young green
of almond-trees, bloomed against a clear,
fine sky. Phyllis watched the rosy dust
moving in from the horizon, knowing 1
held Chitali, Wanna, Winni and the horses.
“Come on, Dad,” she exclaimed eagerly.
“I’m dying to see everything and every-
body. Let’s go up to the yards. And tell
me, what sort of a season has it been, Ane
country’s looking good down by Five Rivers.
I was bogged out from Nuniewarra. A hey
came down and pulled me out. Decent ot
old Sam; but it was his manager really, 1
suppose—a long, thin slab of a man.
“Gale,” Hugh said. “That’d be Bill
Gale.” .
Phyllis stood on the narrow ledge ot the
verandah watching the horses come in.
When Hugh returned from the kitchen she
had taken one of his old felt hats from
the pegs. __ ~,
“I’ve bagged one of your hats, Dad,
she cried and glanced over at him.
Hugh had on a clean pair of white mole-
skins and a pale blue shirt, more faded
than his eyes. His feet looked small m
neat oiled boots with elastic sides. He
walked with a sharp, firm step, his spurs
clinking on the rough shingly earth.
“That’s one of the first things I can
remember,” Phyllis said—“the chinkle of
vour spurs, Youie. And I’ve always thought
of you in a pair of old white moles with
shirt to match the sky.”
Across the shingly earth to the yards they
went, Hugh striding easily, Phyllis swing-
ing along beside him.
At the yards the boys were waiting-
Chitali, long and straddling, with the turned
legs of a horseman; Wanna, Mick, Toby
and Winni, hanging back shyly, hardly dar-
ing to look towards the girl in her man’s
trousers, although she called to them gaily:
“Hullo, Chitali! Wanna! Toby! Mick!
Winni! What have you got for me? Some-
thing decent, I hope?”
The boys let down one of the rails for
Phyllis and Hugh to walk into the yard
beside the end run where the horses were.
“Beauties, aren’t they, Dad?” Phyllis
cried excitedly. “He’s a Hera, isn’t he?
The chestnut there with the white feather
under his forelock?”
“Dionysus,” Hugh said. “I thought you
could have him, but Chitali won’t hear of
it. Says he bucked like blazes the other
day; threw Wanna and Mick”
“Oh, I say,” Phyllis protested. “I could
ride a bit once, you know. Couldn’t I,
Winni?”
Winni looked up shyly from the strap he
was buckling and unbuckling.
“Course you could, Phyllis,” he said.
“Chitali thinks you’d better have Coon-
ardoo’s mare, Thetis the Second.”
“Youie!” Phyllis protested.
“What do you say, Winni?” Hugh asked.
“W T hich’ll we give her?”
“Brought Persephone in,” Winni replied,
hanging his head.
“You did, did you?” Hugh laughed. “Of
course, there she is. Persephone!”
Looking through the rails, Phyllis picked
out the horse on which she had ridden and
galloped about when she was a child.
“She looks fit, and she must be nearly
a hundred!” she cried.
“She’s a bit gone in the wind and shies
like old billy-oh/’ Hugh said. “But perhaps
she’ll do for to-day.”
Phyllis agreed. “She’d feel hurt perhaps
if I didn’t ride her to-day. But to-morrow
I want Dionysus. You can’t expect me not
to be crazy about a horse like that, Dad.”
Hugh looked at Winni. They understood
each other very well on that glance.
“He’s yours, Phyl,” he said. “But you’ll
give me your promise not to ride him till
Winni says, won’t you? He’s horse-boss
now.”
“I see,” Phyllis smiled between them.
“Winni’ll take the steam out of Dionysus
(Continued on page 57.)


iiiiiimimi
mill mi
Itna-
"Ml
N
S'
•'hid
IIBSS! U
;#•»iiarniiftan lit I IOTJpi
lIIMM •"* |
••! I -■
«in!... 'in™
"*+&>!**! • -'Jliitii i tfc—
hi JL'jult
M
1
3s\ x
W
m
s®
m
wmm**
CX /T&
m
HERE is no need
to ponder the
merits of this or
that brand of
hat. With entire confi-
dence you may select a
flat that suits ijourhersonalitu
Obtainable at all the
leading M en’s Stores
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY. LTD


%"o
/ spot'
vie
coo
I
/J
r,
L '
,1
m
N *
*o-‘ \\ v ;<«ll t/t&r
M
r*T/f>
.£) 1%
35
•.;.> 'C. T
\IFX
v
_4Jl
AUaj
r»«
taw^.y
mw/%
m 'm-
MS ®
X
VMT-Jm
- -my /m
W M/l . J//
m
,/ hi///// '"HUH 1 H 1
All Models Porcelain
Lined.
Write for Prices
and Terms.
E3j
I*4
Al
W\
Ajat i
“Freeze with Ease."
After the game enjoy healthful
refreshment from your ElectrlCE.
On these hot days ElectrlCE, the
perfect electric refrigerator, is the
one and only really cool spot
for keeping foodstuffs and bottled
drinks.
The ElectrlCE refrigerator is
simple, compact, reliable and
automatic. Self-contained in one
attractive cabinet; no pipes or
brine-tank no connections to
inspect. It looks after itself.
Made in various sizes, all porcelain
lined; attractive exterior finishes;
ample storage space; shelves that
can be reached without bending
or stretching; there is an Elec-
trlCE for every household.
Before you decide, call, see an
ElectrlCE working, and inspect
our Model Electric Kitchen.
Manufacturers Products Pty., Ltd.,
137-39 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
SUGDEN PLACE, MELBOURNE.
m
AN EMMCO
PRODUCT
Made by
Electricity Meter Mfg. Co.,
Ltd.
F
ft
MANUFACTURERS PRODUCTS IT?
137 CLARENCE S T SYDNEY
PLEASE SEND FREE YOUR ELECTRiGE RECIPE BOOK
TO
Name
street
L City
SSafe ■
8.9.
Sk,
m
iktu
n
a
///A
WM.
m
m
S^ lea
:1c a^° u
pet
■Sia^ 6 '
WHATEVER may be your holi-
day mood ... fishing; game
hunting; alpine climbing;
1 sight seeing ... you will be enthralled
fby a change amid New Zealand’s be-
\ witching surroundings, a memorable
holiday at unexpectedly low cost.
Let us send you free literature and
details of fares. Use the coupon!
London Bank Chambers,
20 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
59 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
a
r
«/5»
1
ci
V
1(7
//i'li.w*'* '''El'B*
in the Phoenix „
at 7 in the morning
R
_•. A' i X#
) / r a r.
7 A
-VI::
j S: ■'•o^^-
r' \s
m
m
James
i
JJ4S
*::
DURING the eighteenth century duelling played a
prominent part in the career of a gentleman, and m
Ireland was conducted with characteristic enthusiasm.
In Phoenis Park, a favourite rendezvous for affairs of
honor, i»' «tings were of frequent occurrence. Though
duelling, has been superseded by more
peaceful methods, one link with duel-
ling days remains. John Jameson
Whiskey is exactly the same to-day as
in 1780, when it was first distilled.
After one hundred and fifty years its
purity and essential character remain
unchanged. Its excellence made it
pre-eminent in the Georgian era. Its
excellence makes it pre-eminent to-
day. Always ask for ‘J.J.
JOHN
JAMESON
DUBLIN
WHISKEY
excellent and unchanged since Uc/J
Sole Agents for N.S.W., TOOTH & CO. L*d.


The Finest Razor
that money can buy
A genuine KROPP Razor will give you quick, clean,
comfortable shaves for a life time. It is an all-British
Razor, hand-forged in Sheffield, England, by the Worlds
most expert craftsmen.
KROPP
never
requires
grinding
ALL - BRITISH
m
UP
From the usual Dealers. Black Ivory or Xylonite Handles.
Wholesale onIyOSBORNE, GARRETT & CO., LTD., London, England.
FEATURES THAT HAVE MADE THE “SWAN” FAMOUS
L
Li
V JQgftef
oSi\ r
d
< Safely
Locked
Numbered amongst the
special features of the
Self-filling “ Swan ” is
the Flush Lever which
is self-locking.
When, after filling, the
lever is pressed home,
an ingenious automatic
locking device secures it
firmly and so prevents
accidental opening when
pen is placed in pocket.
Self-Filling
“ Swans”
from 17/6
Black or Mottled
Also in artistic
colours from
22/6
(Other “Swans”
from X2/6)
“Fyne Poynt” Pencils from 7/6
SeE-Filling “Blackbird” Pens from 9/-
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House, London, W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Ma 'agin x Agents and R pair Service Depdt:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Ask to see the New Coloured “Swans.”
Swan
PEN
“SWAN" INK —Best for “Swan” Pens and all Pena
Pen and Picture.
Shadow Shows
Absence of a sense of the ridiculous in
the ordinary Teutonic make-up is one reason
why Australia is being inflicted at the
moment with “The Beggar Student
(A.A.F.A.). The film, based on Millocker s
opera, is an alleged romantic drama of Im-
perial Russia. Simon Rymanowicz, a vaga-
bondish student, who on the screen is about
as skittish as old boots, is expelled from ais
university (probably for his unmitigated
stodge), and enters upon a life of ‘ gaiety ana
recklessness” —that is to say, he steals a
hatful of potatoes from a market woman,
lights a cigarette from an officer’s butt, and
completes his rakish debaucheries by throw-
ing a snowball at a sleeping gaoler. Next,
this lie-man in water-colors attends a ball
at the palace, and has a pallid flirtation
with a countess, whereupon Colonel (Jllen-
dorf decides upon a “novel form of revenge.
This consists in making Simon a prince and
throwing him into the company of the coun-
tess with the brilliant idea of denouncing
him later and humiliating the lady, who,
however, admits her love, and so humiliates
the colonel. It is only necessary to add that
the picture is even duller than this vapid
plot suggests, and is acted by a bunch of
players who might have learnt their art by
wireless one night when the static was worse
than usual.
Considerably brighter fare, though the
story is punk, is “A Certain Young man
(Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer). Lord Brinsley,
MARGELINE DAY, with
“A Certain Young Man.”
young, hand-
some and rich,
takes women
•is a tram con-
ductor takes
what he calls
“fez,’’ until
one who parti-
cu 1 ar 1 y at-
tracts him
turns out
to be Ids but-
ler’s wife, and,
the butler
catching them
drinking in his
home the wine
he lias pinched
from the lord,
the lord thinks
it’s high time
lie left Lon-
don and wo-
men for a
w li i 1 e. I I e
makes for
France with a
fishing enthusiast, but on the way meets
another woman, and decides that her desti-
nation will do him. He is engaged to her
by the time one of his married lady friends
arrives at the hotel looking for him, and
there is promise of interesting develop-
ments when an enraged husband arrives
looking for her, and finds the young man
in her room. The promise fizzles out, how-
ever. The young man hides the woman,
but is having some difficulty to explain
her forgotten handbag, when his fiancee, who
has been listening in the passage, enters and
claims it, and the husband goes off apologis-
ing. There is more fizzle shortly afterwards
when the girl, without the faintest excuse
for doing so, swallows every morsel of the
young man’s lurid past and throws her arms
protectingly around him. It is a sorry flop
in a piece that begins fairly well; but, after
all, the plot in a picture of this sort is a
secondary affair: the scenario was most likely
stuck together by some poor grub acting
under orders to give Ramon Novarro and
Marceline Day most of the pie. Ramon,
for a change, acts with his clothes on, and,
as usual, his acting has plenty of polish,
though his young English aristocrat looks
more like a steaka-da-oyst minion who had
been surreptitiously bathing himself in the
salad oil. Marceline Day makes a good lead
beside him, and what is quite a passable
light-hearted entertainment lias a suitable
amount of humor gently injected into it by
Huntley Gordon, as the fish enthusiast, an
Englishman of the haw-haw but still like-
able variety.
Regarded as a picture of war, “The Legion
of the Condemned” (Paramount) is about
as one-sided as a political address. The
glory and spectacular magnificence of what,
more often than otherwise, was less roman-
tic than an abattoir are magnified out of
all proportion to cold truth. Even the flying
corps., with which the picture, a blood-
brother to “Wings,” is concerned, was not
all romance, and was seldom theatrical. Its
boyish spirits were adventurous, and they
soared too high to be tainted by the filthy
horribleness that lay about the groundlings;
but they did not make a habit of embracing-
women they thought anything of in company,
and they were not always lined up at the
mess bar when off duty—occasionally they
played chess or discussed such fallacies as
democracy and the birth of the kangaroo
upon the nipple. All this, however, is not
by way of saying that “The Legion of
the Condemned” is not a good entertain-
ment: it is admirable in that respect. The
story has brisk action throughout, and it
is so well knit that it almost convinces a
Digger that here is the truth after all, and
that which has been waking him up at
night is not an aftermath of war, but of
lobster mayonnaise or sodden pie-crust. The
Legion itself—a flying squad, composed of
men who for past reasons want to go west
as soon as possible—is a picturesque con-
ception. Femininity enters in the shape of
a girl spy, who has to be landed behind the
German lines by the man who, years before,
caught her in what seemed to him a com-
promising situation, and is in the Legion for
that reason. Fritz' learns the date of his
proposed return for her, uses her as a decoy
and captures him, but the Legion gets word
in time to prevent an execution and rescue
the pair. Fay Wray, as the' girl, and Gary
Cooper, as the Legionite, are both human,
and the story has strong dramatic points,
spectacular settings and a good leaven of
humor.
The picture patron who, wanting the diges-
tive powers of a concrete mixer, cannot
make a comfortable meal off a film composed
of mountainous improbabilities will need
a pound or two of bismuth to help him
through with “None but the Brave” (Fox).
The story is not told here, because, as far
asi this Shadow Showman could see, there is
no story.
The Palette
Mastery of design and freshness of color
are impressive generalities of Thea Proctor’s
exhibition of 45 various examples of her work
at the Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney. The
figure work in some of the many pencil
drawings is not conspicuously successful, but
the purely decorative pieces arc striking. The
fan designs are perhaps the best things in
the show, but the hacked-out, woodcut-like
groupings of flowers, some of them on silk,
are original in conception and very fresh in
color. “The Cactus,” “Anemones” and “The
White Camellia” are splendid decorative
pieces; it would take uncommonly vigorous
work to overshadow them on any \yall.
A bright and lovely show is the exhibition
of M. J. McNally’s score or more water-
colors at the Fine Art Galleries, Sydney.
The prices appear to be fixed according to
size, for one of the cheapest of the N.S.W.
South Coast scenes that chiefly make the
show is one of the finest, if not the very
finest. It is called “Red Road,” a strip of
receding road, with a couple of wispy trees
to the right, a bushy one to the left and an
exquisitely painted sky. Another, called
“Afternoon, Bayview” (water seen underand
through low-branching trees), and the strip
of beach ivith serrating headlands entitled
“A Day of Haze, Port Hacking,” are delight-
fully painted. But whoever bought the
“Road” should add a shilling or two to the
paltry twelve guineas for good value received.
The exhibition of English and Australian
drawings at the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney,
is mostly dull. A group of six figures by
Lambert, a few Thea Proctor drawings in
softened colors and a figure or two by Colin
Gill do a little towards uplifting it from
mediocrity.
Septimus Power's world (Melb. Athe-
naeum) is a clean world, through which a.
cosmic housemaid appears just to have sailed.
It is minus dust, smoke and petrol fumes,
and some of it is minus any atmosphere. The
gypsies look as if they had just been washed
for Sunday-school, and the horses have all
been groomed for the Show. Two exceptions
to the general effect of wholesale sanitation
are a bullock team (uncatalogued) and
“Cattle” (No. 4). Here Power has modified
his simple ideas iof color with some of the
subleties of tone, and the results are effec-
tive in the extreme.
J. C. Goodhart’s etchings have been win-
ning attention—the Adelaide Gallery lately
bought a set,
and Campbell
Dodgson, keep-
er of prints
and drawings
at the British
Museum, has
written telling
the artist how
interested he
was in a group
of five which
lately reached
him. Goodhart.
born in Adel-
aide 55 years
ago, is a suc-
cessful Broken
Hill business
man who
makes art
his hobby and
etching hi s
recreation. As
he has special-
ised in Broken
J. G. GOODHART.
Hill mining . , „
subjects his work has been carried all over
the world by visitors to the great field,
and probably not even the incomparable
Norman Lindsay’s etchings are more widely
distributed.
The Inky Way
“Eureka”: The Bulletin does get into
queer places. Recently I climbed the Num-
bugga Walls, near Bega, on the far South
Coast of N.S.W., and reached a spot where
no white man had ever been before. There
I found a copy of The Bulletin of Decem-
ber, 1901. On top of it, and partly coverei
with dirt, was an abo.’s stone tomahawk.
The old pink cover had evidently taken
Jacky’s eye.
“Ashmead”: Journalism carried off the
honors in the song competition arranged by
the “Come to Tasmania” people. The words
of the winning number were written by
R. G. Walters, a reporter on the Hobart
Mercury ; J. C. Knowles composed the
music. . Second prize went to Mrs. Bertha
Southey Brammall. who writes short stories;
and the third to Reg Biggs, of the Launces-
ton Examiner. Mrs. Brammall and Biggs
wrote both lyric and music.
Sad result of too much ruminating on mili-
tant unionism in Barrier Truth :
Melbourne, October 9 1 . —Another bomb outrage
occurred early this morning, when a Mills bomb prac-
tically wrecked a house in Dudley-street, West Mel-
bourne. Thirteen Italians were asleep at the time
of the explosion, but unfortunately no one was
injured.
“G.T.”: As to losing Bulletins through
the post, I have no complaints. For 10 years
the paper chased me all over the west of
Queensland, and was collected from stations,
stores, pubs, mail changes and real post
offices. Sometimes there was no wrapper,
and always there were finger-marks on the
print, but the article was never missing—
the men of the West were above robbing a
man of his Bully. For 30 years past I
have collected from a small railway station.
The wrapper gets no respect, but I haven’t
missed a copy. I have passed them all on to
bush workers—as many as 50 at a time.


ďfd
ď
'er 65
E
<D
iHI
i.-.'niiiiiiiimiinl
lUiHiiiMnnnmij
I
¥
Ulilllllllllllll
liiiiiiuiiuiiii
uni
E
m
vm
w jfi
£
New Chrysler **6s” 4'door Saloon
AT LAST —The Modem
fd
Car Style for the Modem Age
THE NEW Chrysler Sixes
‘‘6s” and “75” —are so far
ahead from every point of view
that Chrysler once more out-styles
everything else that runs.
For sheer artistry of design, for
luxury of grooming, for behaviour
that out - Chryslers even Chrysler,
for downright value at their lower
prices Chrysler has once more
wiped out every existing standard
by which motor cars have been
judged.
At a single bold stroke, it has
initiated the style that re-styles all
motor cars.
er
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney ,
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.


World's Pigeon Championship.
Melbourne Gun Club, July 6, 1923.
Ist. W. BAULDERSTONE (S.A.).
3rd. “CALROSSIE” (Vic.).
Both used
W. W. GREENER
GUNS.
There is no better
Shooting Gun made.
Procurable from all GUN DEALERS.
Catalogues on Application.
Wholesale Representatives;
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY, LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE, C.l.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
AN OLD “SPOT” MELLOWED BY AGE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney.
[4.
Armour’s Orange Gut
n
Restring
22(6
(Return Postage Paid )
Guaranteed Three
Months.
Strung to Match-
play Tension.
For this special offer send
Your Racket to
N.S.W. SPORTS
STORE, LTD.
11-13 MARTIN PLACE,
SYDNEY.
ALAN KIPPAX, Director.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Statesman won the Melbourne Cup be-
cause he was the fittest horse in the race
and the best stayer, and because he had
141 b. less than weight for age. Third last
after going half a mile, he was sixth at
the mile post and third at the four furlongs,
where Strephon had run to the front. An-
other two furlongs, and he had closed on
Strephon; a few more strides, and he was
out in front with the race won. Munro did
not touch him with whip or spur, but
kept him going with hands and knees until
the thick-set dark chestnut was four lengths
clear of the tiring Strephon and another
three lengths in advance of Demost, and
the clock was stopped at 3min. 23§sec. bo
William Kelso received his first Melbourne
Cup from the hands of the Governor-General,
and great was the cheering, for, Kelso has
been a favorite at Flemington and Caulfield
for 30 years. In Sydney the, enthusiasm
was even greater; when the radio announcer
shouted “Statesman’s in front and they can t
catch him,” the popular appreciation was
such that the gentleman could not be heard
for some minutes at the races and some of
the clubs. Statesman’s price on the course,
was 7 to 2; the best laid after the weights
came out was 20 to 1.
But, like so many other Cup winners,
Statesman failed in the C. B. Fisher Stakes
at w.f.a. Gothic had shown brilliant form
in the Melbourne Stakes and the Linlithgow
Stakes, hut backers, remembering his Cau.-
field Cup failure, decided that Kelso’s horse
was the better proposition at a mile and a
half, though there wasn’t much between
them in the betting; it was 11 to 8 States-
man and 7 to 4 Gothic. Statesman’s back-
ers were delighted when they saw Vaals run
to the front as soon as the gate lifted and
make the pace a cracker, Balmerino headed
Vaals rounding the home turn, but. once in
the straight Gothic, moving like a champion,
ran to the front, and, although there were
cries of “Winalot’s got him” when that chest-
nut made a run at him, Sol Green’s black
beat the Sydney Cup winner by a length ;
Statesman was two lengths away. As usual,
he was a long way back in the early stages,
and he would have had to be a marvel to win
from where he was, for Gothic ran the mile
and a half in 2min. 29|sec., an Australasian
record. He is certainly a very fine horse,
and it is a pity Limerick was not. on hand
to give him a chance of avenging his defeat
in the Craven Plate.
This Page gave Statesman first for, the
Cup and Bacchus second. When it rained
on the Monday, the owner said he would not
run Bacchus, who is no good in the wet, and
though it came out fine on Tuesday he kept
his word. Subsequent form suggests that,
had Bacchus started, he would have been
either second or third. He requires a strong
pace, and in the Veteran Stakes, run on the
Thursday, he did not get it; all the same
he contrived to run second to Dion in 2min.
36fsec. for the 12 furlongs, and was travel-
ling much the faster at the finish. The
pace was on all the way in the V.R.C. Han-
dicap on Saturday, and, coming with a won-
derful run, Bacchus turned the tables on
Dion, and established an Australian record,
2min. 57isec., for a mile and three-quarters.
Epilogue was a fair third; Demost, third in
the Cup, was well back. Kelso’s horse was
favorite at 7 to 2; Canning Queen and
Demost (4 to 1), Epilogue (6 to 1) and
Dion (10 to 1) were the others backed.
With an ounce of luck, or better judg-
ment on his jockey’s part, Ramulus would
have won the Caulfield Guineas and the
Moonee Valley W. S. Cox Plate, and with
only 9st. in the Batman Stakes and nothing
much to beat he looked a fair thing. The book-
makers demanded 5 to 4, but any price, as
it proved, was a good price, for Rampion’s
brother ran to the front at the back of the
course, drew away at the distance, and won
on the bit from Ivavalli (15 to 1) and The
Gay Mutineer (7 to 1). McCarten had the
mount —he rode Bacchus also.
Faircroft, who had bobbed up in the Car-
nival Handicap on Thursday when the stable
forgot to back him, was backed for the
Final Handicap, and again the stable was
left lamenting. The race was very exciting;
Noscitur (10 to 1) caught the leader,
Mutcha (9 to 2), turning into the straight
and lasted long enough to scramble home
from little Reputed King (10 to 1), Mutcha
being third. And so a great round closed.
Kelso and Sol Green were the principal
stake-winners; Pike and Munro the most
successful iockeys.
* * * *
The progeny of imported Paddington
(Julia Grey, an A.J.C. Doncaster Handicap
winner, was the best of them) have hitherto
been regarded as sprinters rather than stay-
ers, but Paddi Eve, a brown filly by Pad-
dington—Evelyn Soult, has, shown unques-
tionable stamina by capturing the Queens-
WHEN THEY CAME TO EARTH.
HE: “I must have been doing 40 when I hit that tree.”
SHE: “Yes; 40 winks.”
land Derby and Cup. Prior to the bi„ meet-
ing at Ascot a success in tliird-division com-
pany at Albion Park was Paddi Eves best
performance, and Brisbane punters could
hardly believe their eyes when, they saw her
come away from the even-money favorite
Royal Flavor, in the straight, after malun„
all her own running, and beat Claro s daugh-
ter by lengths in 2min. 33sec.—faster time
than Strephon made in the Victoria Deiby.
Many people summed it up as a nuke, but
the fillv won the Cup almost as easily from
In Petto and High Syce in 3min. 2545ec.:
and Royal Flavor was among the unplaced
lot In Petto was the Cup favorite, at o
to 2 • Paddi Eve and High Syce—-who
won twice at w.f.a. during the meeting—
were at fives. Paddi Eve is trained by P. J.
Ryan for H. .T. Whiten ; Pat O’Sullivan rode
her in the Derby, and little Marsden, from
Sydney, in the Cup.
* * * *
For Randwick on Saturday :
Flying Handicap: Whitta; next, Golden
Voice.
Three-year-old Handicap: Remora; next,
Markdennis. _ ~ , , „ .
November Handicap: Leadight, next,
Sl) llTghweight Handicap: Venetian Eady;
next. Sarigne.
Not only at Flemington were the Kelso
colors carried to victory on Saturday;
Gleaner, a big grey colt by Sarchedon out ot
Reap, dam of Bairn, won a Nursery Handi-
cap for the master of Orville Lodge at Can-
terbury Park on Saturday, going out at
twos. He is not quite another Bairn in the
matter of pace, but he showed gameness in a
close finish. Tartan Sash (9 to 4), who
came to light in a division of the High weight
Handicap, was another winner with a dis-
tinguished relative; she is a sister to Beau-
ford. The Grindstone (7 to 2) compensated
for many disappointments by funning away
with the Maiden Handicap, and early backers
got sixes; Black Douglas (6 to 4) also
made amends for previous failures by taking
out the Flying Handicap after a spirited
tussle with Beelgali. The Canterbury Han-
dicap resulted in a procession, which was
headed by the Newmarket mare New Sweet
(7 to 2). with Nobbys (5 to 2) ami Blair-
court following. New Sweet is in-and-out,
but the same is true of most of the middle-
distance cattle racing in Sydney these days.
Roscrea, the half-brother to Limerick, made
a dazzling first appearance in Sydney eai\y
in the season, but failed to reproduce that
form in subsequent races, especially m the
A.J.C. Derby. In the retrospect, there must
have been something wrong with him; he
broke down badly in the Maoriland Derby,
and had to be destroyed. Ballymena, eldest
of the three half-brothers, died in much the
same way in Sydney, and Limerick lias been
bothered by a heel trouble all his days. It
is a famous family, but unsound.
MQ. (and Rafferty) Rules
At Sydney Stadium on Saturday nig 111
wrestlers Clarence Eklund and led lay©
met in a match alleged to be for the world s
light-heavyweiglit championship. Lkluiui
won the only fall in the sixth round with
a combination wrist and hammerlock which
forced Thye to tap the mat. This left him
with a temporarily numbed arm, and referee
Banner stopped the match.
Only a handful of spectators gathered at
Melbourne Stadium to see George Zarynoft
(12sli. 111 b.) and “Pinkie” Gardiner (12st.
41b.) in what was hoped rather than expected
to be the last match of the season. As a
showman, the Russian proved the finest per-
former of the troupe, few as his opportuni-
ties have been. He gained the only fall in
the 7th round, halching “Pink” over in most
spectacular fashion from a sitting position
and ramming the shoulders down.
Ins and Outs
In the Sheffield match between Victoria
and South Australia at Melbourne Jack
Ryder came to the rescue of a collapsing
Victorian side with a finely-hit 138, young
Rigg backing him with 58. Ponsford and
Hendry both failed, and Woodfull was absent,
ill, the innings totalling 317. Grimmett got 3
for 99, but Williams made a welcome return
to his form of a couple of seasons ago, with
4 for 30. On a perfect wicket. South Aus-
tralia collapsed before the bowling of Iron-
monger (5 for 51) and Blackie (4 for 45).
but, thanks to Grimmett, saved the follow on
by S runs, totalling 176. With 2 down for
201, Ponsford having made just on half of
them. Victoria had the match well in hand
on Monday.
At Sydney Cricket Ground on Friday and
most of Saturday record crowds watched
with mixed feelings the English batsmen
belt the best bowling N.S.W. could muster.
Giving few chances, and at no time incom-
moded by the attack, England ran up the
huge score of 734 for 7 wickets, Chapman
declaring at 5 p.m. on Saturday. A bigger
total has been amassed by an English side
against N.S.W. (Maclaren’s 1901-02 team
put up 769), but by the way things were
going against the fagged-out bowling it is
probable that the tourists would have reached
four figures had they gone for the record.
As it was, on Saturday evening they had
got rid of Morgan, Jackson and Andrews,
and still had 682 runs m hand.
Jardine gave a most stylish and im-
pressive display for 140, showing a
greater all-round stroke capacity than Ins
Southern critics credited him with, though
most of his runs were made on the leg side.
Sutcliffe (67) has played many more con-
vincing innings in Australia, and Tyldesley
again failed to get going. It was left to
Hammond to show batting in its best and
most delightful aspects, and his score of
22.1 (run out) included nearly every possible
stroke, with the straight and cover drives
predominating. Hendren (167) partnered
him in a record stand of 333 runs before
he was caught in the long field, and showed
better cricket than in any of liis previous
visits. Gregory and Ivelleway, sadly over-
worked, bowled finely while fresh, but the
hard work told on them at times as it did
on Hooker, who also justified his inclusion.
Ivelleway took 2 for 140, but the fast bowler
was umible to get a wicket. Hooker’s dis-
missal of Jardine made his average 1 for
150. Nicliolls was innocuous, and so was
Campbell. Morgan, who should have been
tried earlier on Saturday, got Ames and
Chapman for 47, and Bradman’s slow leg
breaks induced Hendren to get himself out.
Ivippax (64) and Bradman (88) were the
stars on Monday, the young fellow greatly
enhancing his Test-match claims. But it was
doubtful whether N.S.W. would be able to
avert defeat by an innings.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury": Nothing seems to have
puzzled some Australian cricket-writers so
much as the particolored cap affected by the
English amateur Jardine, which is the out-
ward and visible sign of membership in the
Harlequins, a club of high renown and long
standing for which only members of _ the
University of Oxford are eligible. Cambridge
has an opposite number in the Quidnuncs.
One Sydney evening journal referred to
Jardine’s headgear as a “harlequin cap,
under the impression that its impressionist
tinting was responsible for the title. England,
within the universities and without, is full
of clubs of this kind. After the famous Zm-
gari, two instances taken at random are the
Free Foresters and the Lancashire Wizards,
a noted North of England club, which once
was almost entirely composed of members
of the Steel and Hornby families.
* * * *
“Billy”: Is there another family in Aus-
tralia to match that of the late John
Hill on the cricket field? The founder
was the first man to score a century on the
Adelaide oval; his sons, Arthur, 1 cter,
Clem, Harry, Solly and Roy, all represented
their State in Shield cricket. All the sons
are living with the exception of Harry, who
died when at his best. Clem, of course, is
the most distinguished of all. This season
he is doing press work for an English journal,
having taken the place of Warren Bardsley,
who gave up a job to act as an Australian
selector.
* * # *
“Tenth Slip”: The N.S.W. Cricket Asso-
ciation’s lease of the Sydney Cricket Ground
expires this season, and those concerned are
wondering whether the trustees will allow
the association to carry on as of yore, or
“raise the rint.” At present the trust gets
10 per cent, of the takings, and it is expected
that it will go for a bigger cut, as it has
done in the case of the winter lease of the
ground, which was recently abandoned by
the Rugby League. One aspect of the situa-
tion which should make the trust go cannily
is the suggestion that the cricket authorities
should consider taking over the Agricultural
Ground and making it their playing head-
quarters. The stand accommodation is
already good, and the playing area could
soon be brought into condition for first-class
cricket. It would be something of a. calamity
if this were to happen, though it is hardly
likely. Yet though the deed of grant practi-
cally vests the .Cricket Ground in the C.A.
during the cricket season, there is nothing to
compel the association to play its big matches
there.
(Continued on page 41.)
“Y. Emma”: The Olympic Cup for 1929,
a trophy given annually to associations which
have rendered special services in the cause
of international physical training, has been
awarded to the Y.M.C.A. The cup, which
is a magnificent jewelled trophy of gold and
silver, will be held by the headquarters of the
World’s Alliance of the Y.M.C.A. at Geneva.
TUB ROOK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
W. M. Woodtull, the Victorian captain, though
suffering from ’flu, carried his bat right throng
the Victorian innings against the Englishmen.
Still lives the fame of Spartan heroes who
Defied the Persians at Phermopyli ,
And still we read in Scott how Roderick Dhu
Stood like the rocks, immovable as they.
The French McMahon remarked J V sms,
j’y reste,” , .
Facing the Malakoff, that lowering hill.
All stickers! But the bravest and the best
Of them weren’t harder to dislodge than
Bill.
Old Stonewall Jackson, Roman labius,
Great generals who’ve left. a deathles name,
Masters of stratagems ingenious;
The Iron Duke who played a waitin„
The boy that stood upon the burning deck
Scorning to leave when others had their
As tail pavilion-ward would trek,
We reckoned none of these could equal
Bill.
Firm as the Rock of Ages see him stand
Steadfast, enduring, imperturbable!
Larwood’s expresses hurtle through the land,
But never break into his citadel.
Others are rattled, skittled, sent to grass,
Of no avail their strategy and skill.
The one remains, while all his comrades
pass , ...
They’ll need a bullock-team to shift our
Bill.
VICTORTA.
GANRSHA.


I
7
> sss i
i S&3!
S'.
-m)
V.-'-
■ /
i
\ 7j&\
V.
> ,
■£
VJ
ere
are more
TRUCKS
in use
than
those of
any other
exclusive
truck
manujacfiirifi
D EPUBLIC popularity is no mere
A * accident. It is the well - merited
result of service faithfully given in all
countries under all conditions.
It is built by an organisation which builds
trucks only. Every ounce of skill and
experience they possess is devoted to
building trucks to last, to serve well, to
perform staunchly and consistently, and
,to do it for as low a cost as a business
man could expect.
You can buy a lower-priced truck, but
you cannot buy a truck that costs less
in mile after mile performance.
n
mm
:<Y,
New South Wales:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
South Australia:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street Adelaide.
Victoria:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
Western Australia:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
Queensland:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
New Zealand:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD.,
Crowle House, 105 York Street, Sydney.


□
a
For easy starting—fully guaranteed, A/C
and Australian made. All garages. u
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.,
162 SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
’Phones: F 4947. F 5961.
NEW BROWNING
DE LUXE
F.N. 22CAL. RIFLE
MODEL
đ
SINGLE-SHOT
BOLT ACTION.
aoes away wun ine irouuie ui &neub jcuuimnj- mmu u.ccui. xnc ~ ~~, , , i+.i
barrel fitted with an adjustable rear sight and bead front sight with protector Checkered Pistol
grip stock and fore-end. Perfect balance. Easily taken apart for carrying. Fires 22cal. short,
long and long-rifle cartridges. Accurate range with 22 long-rifle cartridges 200 yards.
DIRECT FACTORY REPRESENTATIVES:
35/- Post Free.
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up—Beautiful
lighting effects—A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chet, from the Caf€ de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines').
(Also under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
Ins and Outs
“Double”: Dou Bradman’s score of twin
centuries in the N.S.W. match with Queens-
land. at Brisbane, makes the fifth feat ot the
kind by a N.S.W. player. J. It. M. Mackay
began it in 1905-06 against South Australia ;
the others are Noble, Ivippax and Jackson.
Three Victorians, Ransford, Armstrong and
l'onsford, have picked the double. i ic.
Richardson and L. O’Connor have done it
for South Australia and Queensland re-
spectively.
He * * *
“Amateur Pro”: A writer in Ixmdon
Daily Mail forecasts that open profes-
sionalism must become an accomplished tact
in Australian cricket, if the game is to
retain its first-class players. Indications
have pointed that way for some time past, but
it will be a difficult job to change over from
the present system of part-time profession-
alism. To adopt the straight-out system after
the English fashion would mean that the
States would have to pay the salaries, since
we have no counties, as in England, and the
clubs could certainly not afford to maintain
professional players at Australian wage
rates —indeed, it is doubtful whether the
majority of the States could afford to do so.
The present method seems the only practic-
able one under Australian conditions, and
there is little wrong with it save the con-
tention of the players and their governing
bodies that they should continue to. be
regarded as amateurs, which they certainly
are not.
Hs He ❖ *
“Bramall Lane”: Walter Hammond, the
young star of the English Eleven, is making
his first and last appearance in Australia
as a professional. Like Jupp and one or
two others of his contemporaries, he is find-
ing that the ability to play cricket well gives
better opportunities to an amateur than
to a “pro.,” provided the former is fitted to
make use of them. Hammond is to marry
the daughter of a big Bradford wool mer-
chant on his return, and is to settle down
to a job in the wool city after. Incidentally,
that means he will soon be available for
Yorkshire, after he has fulfilled the neces-
sary residential requirements. This will be
tough luck for Gloucestershire, which hasn’t
been able to rake up a player of Hammond s
calibre since Gilbert Jessop took the pads off.
* * * *
“Billy th’ Goose”: I bin waitin’ f’r over
er week ter see wot ’appened ter that there
English bowler Larwood f’r wot ther racin’
writers ’d call er serprisin’ reversal uv form
in Melbin. ’Ere’s er bloke runs like er goat
in ’is openin’ gallop at Aderlaide, an’ then,
when ther unsuspectin’ Tommies quotes ’im
back in ther ’undred ter three clarse, ’e comes
with er run ergainst ther Vies, that leaves
’em standin’ still. It may be orl right irt
cricket, but if it was tried on in Rocky goat-
racin’ or even at Flemin’ton er Rand wick,
ther flamin’ stipes ’d be sticky-beakin’ quick
’n lively. Ev’ry game ’as its own standards
er course, but I can’t get erway fr’m ther
notion that them poor unsuspectin’ cows uv
Victorians ’ad their legs pulled to ther limit.
* * S; Si
“Fitzcray” : An argument is afoot in Vic-
toria over Ponsford’s position, in view _of
the ban now placed on a player writing
newspaper account of games in which he
takes part. This rule has been adopted by
nearly every games organisation, including
cricket, tennis and football. The Australian
Board of Control has forbidden the presence
of the player-writer on tours, but has done
nothing to ban the practice when lie is play-
ing in his own State. Ponsford is. a profes-
sional journalist, nowadays, and this adds to
the difficulty, since he will be able to plead
that his living is being interfered with if he
is forbidden to write, while in Melbourne,
where he lives and works. N.S.W. dealt with
a similar situation some time ago by forbid-
ding players to comment in print on cricket
while at home or abroad, but those concerned
were amateur writers.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The match between Victoria
and the Englishmen in Melbourne impressed
one fact upon spectators and players alike
—that the local practice of covering the
wicket the moment rain begins to fall is
shrieking for abolition. The spectacle of the
groundsmen rushing out and struggling with
their unruly tarpaulins whenever a shower
came, and of the scurry to remove the things
when the rain stopped a few minutes after,
was depressing, repeated as it was at regular
intervals throughout the match. All this
trouble and delay did not prevent the wetting
of the wicket it was intended to keep dry,
though it kept it from being soaked. In
addition it inflicted an unsportsmanlike han-
dicap on bowlers and fieldsmen, who reaped
the full benefit of the greasy ball and the
slushy footing. The system is not to prevail
in the Tests, and is not practised in any of
the other States except Queensland. It is an
anomaly that one or two States should be
allowed to make their own rules for the con-
duct of important matches.
sji *
“Scribe”: One overdue reform is called
for from the authorities in charge of the
big cricket matches, and especially those in
which the English cricketers are concerned.
This is the immediate extirpation of the
autograph fiend, a growth of the last few
years in Australia, though long an affliction
in Britain. Recently in Melbourne the Eng-
lishmen were so mobbed by importunates of
both sexes and all ages that they found it.
almost impossible to obtain privacy off the
'field itself. A suggestion worth considering
is that rubber stamps of the signatures of
the various members of the team be made
and placed in charge of an official at a special
turnstile. This individual could stamp all
books as the owners passed through after
payment of a fee for each name desired. The
cash taken could augment the Board of Con-
trol’s coffers, or be devoted to charity, such
as the building of a home for indigent book-
makers, to quote a seasonable example.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: The British tennis team
which reached Sydney early in the week is
the first to visit this country for eight years,
the last being the Davis Cup side under
Colonel Kingscote. The star of the side is
H. W. Austin, classed as England’s best
player, who is a nephew of the former ’Vic-
torian champion R. Lycett, now living in
England 1 . Austin has represented England
against Australia and America, and, though
beaten by Jack Crawford, downed Lott and
Hennessey, two of the best of the younger
Americans, in matches in England
and the States, while he gave the great
Lacoste a five-set go in the All England
singles at Wimbledon. Gregory and Higgs
are a strong doubles combination, while
Collins, who will partner Austin in double
events, is singles and doubles champion of
Scotland, holding the latter title in com-
bination with a brother. H. A. Sabelli,
manager of the team, is secretary of the
English L.T.A., and has managed several
Davis Cup teams.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: There still seems to be
considerable feeling in America over the dis-
qualification of W. T. Tilden for flouting the
rule regarding player-writersL The time for
the election of the executive of the American
L.T.A. is drawing near, and the Tildenites
KNEW HIS MAN.
MAJOR FOGZLE: “Why the dickens didn’t you think to look where that ball was going?”
CADDIE: “I didn’t expect it would be going anywhere, sir.”
are making; no secret of their expectation
that the old committee will be heaved out and
a new one ready to reinstate the fallen star
elected. It seems likely, for Tilden is the best
gate-money proposition in tennis, and that
counts for even more in America than it does
in Australia.
;:< * *
“Amateur Pro” : In view of that par. in
regard to the American amateur-tennis play-
ers (B. 7/11/’2B), a recent announce-
ment of the Australian Tennis Council car-
ries some interest. This is that Australian
players in the Test matches against England
are to be allowed £2 10s. per day while away
from home, in addition to rail and sleeper
fares. While not impugning the motive of
the association of amateurs which has made
this extraordinary grant to amateur players,
I should like to point out that the Amateur
Federation’s allowance to amateurs is ss.
per day. Even in these days of high costs, a
tennis-, football- or cricket-player could do
himself well in the matter of hotels and
washing at 255. a day. Where, then, does
the extra quid go? It cannot be in the
supply of clothing, equipment and other
accessories to the particular game played.
In all amateur sports these are supplied by
the individuals taking part in them them-
selves.
>•; *f* '<'• *
“Top Spin” : The N.S.W. team to meet the
Englanders in Sydney in the match beginning
on November 22 includes the inevitable
Crawford and Hopman. It is some satisfac-
tion to note that that sterling veteran Jim
Willard will play and captain the team, while
Ivalms will play in the singles and partner
Willard in the doubles. Provided that
“temperament’’ does not intrude,_ the Ma
State should make a do of it. Still
you never know. Young tennis players are
like some two-year-olds; the more they race
the less reliable they are.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Let Go”: The sporting parson of a North
Queensland town was being broken to golf,
and after a couple of lessons felt quite proud
of his ability. He closed his ears whenever
exasperated golfers became bunkered, but one
day, breaking a club when trying to get out
of an impossible lie, he asked the caddy to
say a few words for him. The youngster was
certainly not. backward, and quickly replied,
“You fool, why didn’t yer pick yer ball
out with yer ’and, same as ther women do t
* * * *
“Gouger”: Thursday Island boasts a golf
club on a speck that can be walked across in
30 minutes. The island is all hills, and its
the Devil’s own job to hit a ball without
causing a landslide. The course is up slopes,
down them, across gullies and up slopes
again, walled in by hills. Among the natural
hazards are trees, goats, cows, horses and
fowls. Ravines, holes, wasliaways and rocks
are not counted.
“Divot Digger”: At one*of Sydney’s out-
lying golf courses the other day a member,
who had been trying desperately to master
the beginnings of the science which mas-
querades as a game, struck a bad trot in
the matter of clubs and balls. He lost a
dozen of the latter in the course of the round
and broke several of his clubs trying to
rescue others from their evil environment. In
the end, after making a futile swipe at a
“sitter,” he hurled his brassey into a near-by
creek and departed, renouncing golf for
ever. It recalls the yarn of the Scottish
caddie whose employer struck similar disas-
ter. It was a wet day and the bag included
the customary gingham. Club after club
went till the last lost its head in a bunker.
“What the Hades am I to do now?” yelled
the maddened fanatic. “Weel, since there’s
naethin’ else left i’ th’ bag, ye inicht as weel
try th’ auld umbrell’,” was the reply.
H* He ❖ He
“Brassey” : The sudden death in England,
while playing golf, of A. M. Scott, of Syd-
ney, will be generally regretted, and by none
more than the members of Killara (N.S.W.)
golf dub, of which he was a member. The
fatality is yet another reminder that the
Royal and Antient game is not as soft as
it seems to the casual observer. A man pre-
pared to go the long round of _ a modern
golf course, with often the climbing of stiff
pinches to add to the exertion of the long
walk and stroke-making, cannot afford to
be out of condition, and if he is in delicate
health is taking a serious risk.
* * ❖
“The McHaggis”: Queensland is the
locale of the latest wrangle over the rules
of golf. One player, after a good drive off,
discovered that his ball had lodged in a
jam-tin. Then rose the question as to
whether the jam-tin was a natural nazard,
or whether the ball could be lifted without
penalty. A long controversy followed, block-
ing- the fairway, until the owner of the canne
pill grabbed his niblick and swatted the tin
for 111 he was worth. It. sailed spinning
through the air, still retaining the ball, till
over a deep bunker, when it dropped th
imprisoned ball into its remotest depths
There it stayed and the hole was lost, together
with the match and a perfectly good temper.
*** ' *
“Colonel Damurize” : A fearful amount of
fuss has been made because two members ot
a leading English club have been asked to
resign for returning incorrect score caids ;
To read the comment one would think that
the thing was unheard of. Among associate
members it is quite common. And 1 1 isn t
only in scoring either. Rare is the womai
player who can resist the temptation ot sur-
reptitiously kicking her ball out of a bad lie.
unless she is kept under the closest supervi-
sionl. Even when detected and charged in
such cases the sex never blinks an eyelid
but counters with the good old Carden ot
Eden excuse that it didn’t think anyone was
l,)okin^ :
“Mid Iron”: Maoriland's Golf Council
has notified that it intends to send a team
across the Tasman early next year to chal-
lenge for the inter-Dominion trophy, tin
Kirk Windeyer Cup. This is at present m
the keeping of N.S.W., which rather unex-
pectedly annexed it in M.L. last January,
after the All Blacks had won it m the
initial match in Sydney. Conditions demand
that the Cup be played for in the country ot
the holder l . So far, the Victorians have
held aloof from officially competing tor
the trophy, but, perhaps, a change ot heart
may happen before the next contest. ine
contest is open to teams from any ot tne
States.
* * * *
“Baffy” : Golfers of all calibres who aspire
to higher flights will have a fine opportunity
of absorbing the dinkum oil at the N.S.VV.
professional championship, which begins at
Kensington on the Royal Australian course
on November 26. There will be a 36-holes
stroke competition to start off with, and
the first 16 players will qualify for match
play, the final of which is set down for
December 3. Professional golf in N.S'.W. is
of a very high standard, and with sucli
champions as Sinclair and the Clarkes at
the top of their form just now, to say noth-
ing of others, the tourney should provide a
lot of valuable tips for the amateur on-
lookers.
* * * *
“Fluff”: Suva Golf Club, in the once
cannibal Fijis, is annoyed with Walter
Hagen because he thought better of his
decision to visit Australia. When the
Fijians heard Walter would be passing
through they asked him what terms lie
wanted for an exhibition game. Walter said
he guessed £5O, and while asking him to
guess again the Fijians offered to bet him
a level tenner that the local champion,
Hollis Crompton, would beat him over IS
holes at Suva. Walter has maintained a
frozen silence ever since. If what one
hears of the Suva links is true, he was wise
to sidestep the contract). It is said that
they are even worse than the Suva bowling
green, and, like it, are a favorite lounge for
Suva cows. The information comes from
a wholly unreliable source, and I don’t
vouch for its correctness. Still there is no
smoke without tobacco.
* * *!• *
“Old Q.”: Brisbane golfers are fortunate
in the number of trophy competitions inaugu-
rated by generous donors. The list of these
has been added to with the America Cup
which has been given by American-born mem-
bers of the Royal Queensland Club. The
cup is to be held by the winner for a year,
but every successful competitor is to receive
a permanent record in the shape of a small
replica, for the next 10 years at least. The
trophy was won the other day by George
Pollock, who, with a handicap of 18, returned
a card of 73, or 91 off the stick for the IS
holes. An 83 by E. Aiming, whose handicap
was 6, was the lowest gross total.
jjt :Jt sjs H*
“King’s” : There has been something like
a mutiny in the Parramatta (N.S.W.) golf
club over a recent decision to shift to
Blacktown, some miles off. This does not
suit many Parramattans, who have an-
nounced their intention of carrying on with
the old course. There are not enough of
them to form a new club, and the question of
maintaining the course has led to the sug-
gestion that the Parramatta Council should
adopt it as a municipal club). As the park
which contains the course is held under a
trust, the council has no control over it.
The matter could be easily arranged, a
private Act of Parliament being all that is
necessary. Additional public courses are
urgently needed in N.8.W., and elsewhere
in Australia for that matter.
(Continued on next page.)


iffIETFS
*ws
m
m
||fi!
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
fd
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire ,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ďf
ADFIELDS
AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Uadtields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and
Foundries
Alexandria, gvdney, N.S.W.
Bassendean, Perth. W.A.
Branch (
Office J
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vie.
T. & G. Building, Brisbane. Q
Car and Cycle
“Trembler”: Norman Smith, who holds
most of the Australian speed and road re-
cords for motor-cars, added another to the
list last week when he cut the time for the
Sydney-Bourke run down to lOhr. sSmin. for
the 512 miles, most of it over very dubious
roads. Smith, who averaged 46.7 rn.p.h.,
drove the Studebaker Commander in which
he has put up so many Australian records,
including the endurance and distance records
on Lake Perkolili in Westralia, and that for
the transcontinental run from Perth to Syd-
ney. The car is a stock model in all respects
save for extra leaves fitted in the springing.
* * * *
“Garry” : The first motor-car with a front-
wheel drive has arrived in Sydney—a little
English-built 1946-c.c. 4-cyl. Aivis. The car
would pay tax in Britain on 12 h.p., but the
motor is of the supercharged type, and the
makers are probably not far wrong when
they call it a 12-50-h.p. car. The concentra-
tion of flywheel, clutch, gearbox and differen-
tial close up in front of the engine is claimed
to greatly improve roadability, and the car’s
centre of gravity is very close to the ground,
facilitating fast cornering. In English tests
this type of car has attained 100 miles an
hour, a speed considerably in excess of what
has been reached on Sydney’s ill-starred
Maroubra track by cars of any h.p. The
mechanical difficulty of transmitting power
through wheels that must be movable for
steering has been chiefly responsible for the
choice of a back-wheel drive for motor-cars,
but the front-wlieel-drive principle isn’t
new. It was used in the first bicycles and
in many of the early lightweight motor-
cycles.
* * * *
“Aileron” : An attempt on Major di Bern-
hardi’s world record for seaplane speeding
was made in England last week by Flight-
lieutenant D’Arcy Greig. The Italian’s re-
cord was 318.62 rn.p.h., and Greig averaged
319.57. Since the conditions specify that
the existing record must be exceeded by at
least five miles per hour, Greig was not suc-
cessful in his attempt. In an unofficial trial
a day or two before, Greig reached 350 rn.p.h.
The flight was made up of six trips over a
measured distance; the ’plane was an Admir-
alty S 5 Supermarine Napier, of the same type
as that used by Flight-Lieutenant Webster
in winning the Schneider Cup at Venice
last year. The speed was officially measured
by camera guns, which, at the same time,
photographed the face of a chronometer and
the ’pjane while passing a fixed point.
# * * #
“Pram” : That Austin “Baby” which was
the first car to reach Cooktown (N.Q.) by
land (B. 24/10/’2B) has added to its laurels
by shoving on to Cape York, the most
northerly point of Australia, a feat never
before accomplished'. In the run from Sydney
of 3300 miles, the car traversed close on
1000 miles of roadless country, crossing
many unbridged rivers and penetrating all
manner of country, plain and mountain,
open and forested. The car averaged 25
miles per gallon for the trip, and was in
first-class buckle when it arrived at the
jumping-off place.
* « ❖ *
“Whizz”: Even the gods nod sometimes.
Young Max Grosskreutz, of North Queensland,
who has lately been figuring prominently in
Queensland “dirt track” motor-cycle racing,
was forced the other night in Brisbane to
borrow a motor-cycle of a make unknown to
him. The mechanic in charge hastily ex-
plained the method of starting the machine
7 and the way to control its activities while
going, hut time did not permit fuller instruc-
tion. Max rode a good race, and at the
finish found that’he didn’t know how to stop
the thing. Vainly trying all sorts of levers
and gadgets, he continued his wild career
before the eyes of the astonished spectators.
He covered two laps before he screwed up
the courage to throw himself off.
❖ ❖ * ijs
“Sprockett”: Alex. Finlay, the Victorian
motor-cycle i*ider, is to have a shy at the
world’s 24-hour record towards the end of
the month. Before that he is going to tackle
the Australian road records from 100 to
500 miles, starting on November 19. The
attempt on the time record will be made on
a 6J-mile course at Cowes, on Phillip Island
(Vic.), and he will have to beat the present
figures of 1117 miles to turn the trick. That
means he will have to average close to 50
rn.p.h.
* * * *
“Ahasuerus”: An individual of some ex-
perience in motor-cycle touring left Sydney
last week in the person of Dr. Julius de
Vilnits, a Hollander. Riding a British Velo-
cette, he left Riga three years ago on a world
, tour which is to last four years. He reached
Derby, in North Westralia, in May last.
Thence he rode across the continent with a
side-step to Tasmania, and so to Brisbane,
whence he returned to Sydney to embark
for Maoriland.
* * * *
“Hub”: Leslie Cecil, the young Queens-
land holder of the onsh-bike record for the
ride from Brisbane to Sydney, put up a
great performance the other day when he
covered the Melbourne-Sydney journey, un-
paced, in 48hrs. 4Smin. and 30sec., breaking
the 19-year-old record of that great rider,
E. A. Pearson, by llmin. 30sec. The time
breaks the long-distance cycling record for
Australia, in addition. The first ride between
the two cities was in 1884, when A. Edwards,
afterwards Traffic Superintendant in Syd-
ney, did the distance in 10 days on one of
the old high-wheelers.
* * * *
“Hydro”: Major Segrave, the English
motor-speed expert, while waiting for the
completion of the new car in which he hopes
to break the American record, lias been going
in for motor-boat racing in England. The
other day, he won a sea-mile contest, at
I-Iythe in Miss Alacrity, one of a standard-
ised class fitted with a 1500-h.p. engine.
His recorded speed was 50.6 knots p.h. (about
58 miles), so the lady is evidently right
up-to-date.
Miscellaneous
“Shell”: Major Goodsell, the Sydney pro-
fessional sculler who lost the world’s cham-
pionship to Bert Barry at Vancouver some
months ago, has become a naturalised Ameri-
can citizen. Nevertheless, he appears to be
still looking to Australia for financial
encouragement, for he has stated that liis
Sydney backer is finding the money for a
return match against Barry on the Thames
next summer, and will send George Towns
from Australia to train him.
* * * ■' *
“Stand Off”: O. S. Carter, treasurer of
the Queensland Rugby Union, has been in
Sydney lately in consultation with 1 the N.S.W.
officials of the amateur code. As a result of
his visit it is probable that a triangular con-
test will be held between N.S.W.. Queens-
land and Victoria before the arrival of the
All Blacks in July next. Queensland has
already laid the foundation of a promising
inter-State side, and this will be captained
by Tom Lawton, the famous Waratah five-
eighth, who, with Otto Nothling, the ex-
full-back for Sydney Uni. and .N.S.W., has
been giving a lot of time during the past
season to coaching.
* * * *
“Red Chequer”: A furious controversy is
raging in Melbourne pigeon-racing circles
over a flight from Wyalong (N.S.W.) to
Melbourne, an air-line of 308 miles. The
convoyer wired that he had liberated the
fowls at 7.15 a.m. in an easterly wind. In
previous flights from Wyalong the first birds
had arrived about 3 p.m. the same afternoon,
but, to the astonishment of everyone, the
birds hove in sight about 11 o’clock on this
occasion. The first bird was trapped about
that time, but his owner not being ready, he
was not clocked in till 11.26. Even on that
basis, the flying time worked out at 75
rn.p.h. against a strong head wind, which
looks impossible. If the first bird had been
promptly clocked the speed would have been
88 rn.p.h., which is even harder to credit.
BOBBY LEWIS, the Victorian jockey, who
has just completed his half-century and
is still one of the most capable horse-
men in Australia.
It had been declared “no race,” though a
precedent was quoted when the birds arrived
long before the time expected but were
placed, and the prizes awarded. Meanwhile
everyone is trying to explain the occurrence,
though the suggestion that the first birds in
“jumped” an aeroplane for part of the jour-
ney is regai'ded as too fantastic.
* * * *
“Duckwing” : The fine old sport of cock-
ing still flourishes in Britain in spite of
legislation. Recently The Bulletin told
of the arrest at Newmarket of a large party
of the local nobility and gentry, who were
conducting a match in one of the training
stables. Now comes news of another raid at
Norwich, when 16 sportsmen, 19 birds and
a number of pairs of cocking spurs were
collected. In England they are at least con-
sistent, and while banning cockfighting, in
which the birds certainly take delight them-
selves, they have also shut down on the
infinitely baser sport of pigeon-shooting.
Cocking is barred outright in Australia, but
more than one State still permits the bar-
barous practice of pigeon-murder to an
accompaniment of gambling.
* * * *
“Third Base”: The American baseballers
from Stanford University made no secret
of the fact that they had the time of their
H. HEYDON, secretary of the N.S.W.
Cricket Association, a capable official
who has his hands full just now.
lives during their visit to Sydney last sea-
son, and they have evidently been advertise
ing the attractions of the place on their
return home. The Australian Baseball Coun-
cil has received a letter from another Ameri-
can University asking for an invitation. The
name has not been disclosed, but the locality
is in the central-western States. The Ameri-
cans will probably be asked to play at the
tourney in Melbourne next year.
* * * *
“The Mat”: The trouble looming in N.S.W.
bowling circles over the “Keesing” System
of pennant play is even more ominous than
suggested (B. 24/10/’2B). There is growing
opposition to the new scheme, and already
one leading club has threatened, to break
away from the movement and ignore the
award, so to speak. The chief objection
comes from those bowlers who have come
to consider themselves on performance or
otherwise as superior to the common herd,
in an actual bowling sense. To comply with
the offending system, these choice spirits find
themselves heavily watered with the numbers
of inferior players required to make up
the necessary quota for club representation.
This is not to be borne, for, as. one promi-
nent agitator has pointed out, it is degrading
the game to a mere round of social amenities.
These are excellent in their way and in their
own place, but not in pennant bowls, where
there is no let-up in the merciless struggle,
and no puling beg-pardons.
* * *
“Shrewsbury” : Out of the welter of accu-
sation and innuendo which has marked the
return of the Olympic team, the attitude of
Jim Carlton, the schoolboy sprinter, of whom
so much was expected, stands out in refresh-
ing contrast. Illness prevented Carlton re-
turning with the rest of the team, and the
young man faced the limelight of press inter-
viewing on his own. His explanation of his
failure is simple and to the point. It was
not due to eating forbidden potatoes in the
secrecy of his cabin, or to laminitis, house-
maid’s knee or even the Kimberley horse dis-
ease. It happened because the opposition
was too fast for him. Good for the young-
ster ! He has shown that he can take a
beating like a sportsman—which is quite a
different thing from a “sport.”
# * * *
“The Gaffer” : El Ouafi, the Arab winner
of the Olympic Marathon, who turned pro-
fessional immediately afterwards and beat
the American ex-amateur Ray in a long-
distance match in New York recently, has
not taken long to absorb the etiquette
of professional pedestrianism. The pair met
again the other day, and this time Ray won
comfortably, which is as it should be. The
glorious uncertainty of cricket is nothing to
the notorious fallibility of professional run-
ners.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Murkah”: These giant N.S.W. locomo-
tives are terrors for meat and drink. On
express runs it takes over a ton of coal an
hour to keep a big fellow’s strength up, and
between Sydney and Goulburn alone, he
requires 6000 gallons of water.
* * * *
“Hotham” : John Monash’s principality of
Yallourn now boasts the only electrically-
run hotel in Australia. Not only is the
cooking done by the juice, but electrically-
heated water is available in every bedroom.
There may yet be electric barmaids to pull
the beer and call the customer ‘ kid.”
* * * *
“Mulgo”; The sewing-machine agent
travelling strange country roads meets with
unpleasant experiences at times. I came
upon a broken trap by the side of a lonely
road. The owner was absent, but tacked
upon a tree was his notice: “For sale, cheap,
one first-class sample sewing-machine; also
one horse, running at large, and one light
waggonette, slightly damaged. Owner retir-
ing from business.”
❖ ❖ H* *
“Quack” : Queensland Health Department
has hit on a novel way of making revenue
out of radium which might otherwise be
eating its head off in idleness. Radium
salts can mow be hired by approved medical
practitioners in any quantity up to 100
milligrammes, conditionally on the doctor
insuring the precious stuff against loss or
injury.
* * * *
“Let Go”: Bowen (N.Q.) is promised
cement works if the southerners interesting
themselves in the project don’t weaken.
There is plenty of coal and limestone in the
district, but as steelworks, smelters for refin-
ing copper matte and other factories have
been mooted without materialising, the
population is not too optimistic about the
cement works. Waterside troubles have had
a lot to do with keeping Bowen back.
* * * *
“Mussop” : It is only 40 years since opos-
sums were introduced to Maoriland, but they
have found the country so much to their
liking that trapping them has become quite
a large industry in the North Island. In
Wellington province alone royalties were
paid to the Government on £BO,OOO worth
of skins last season. It is proposed to breed
’possums on an extensive scale, with a view
to improving the fur and maintaining the
supply.
* * * *
“Chevroford” : All the luxury-money is not
being spent on cinema theatres. Perhaps the
most magnificent motor-garage in Australia
has just been completed to the order of Ivel-
low-Falkners, in St. Kilda-road, Melbourne,
by architect Norris. It has been carried out
in the Spanish-mission style, the wrought-
iron of the candelabra having been imported
from South America, though everything else
in. the ornate structure is Australian. The
large main showroom is unobstructed by pil-
lars, and the tiled staircase leading up to
the balconied offices would grace a theatre
foyer*, while 3,000,000 pieces went into the
tessellated lloor. Even the ante-rooms where
used cars are haggled over have walls and
windows fit for a monarch’s private chapel.
* * # *
“Up Top”: There is strong reason for be-
lieving that diamonds have been found in
other parts of Australia besides the Nulla-
gine (W.A.). Old Hans Dehn, a N.Q. pros-
pector, carried with him a small stone of
good quality, which he always declared he
bad got in the dish on the Rocky River
diggings. This is a wild spot on top of the
coastal range in Cape York Peninsula, all
thick, scrub. The creek carries blue clay,
but it looks like ordinary slate clay. A
syndicate was once formed at Thursday
Island to see if any more diamonds could be
found in the locality indicated, but it met
with no luck. Old Hans perished recently
on a prospecting trip, after knocking out a
shammy for these last 40 years on the
Peninsula'.
* * * *
“Wingella”: Injustice is done to Darwin
by a statement (B. 29/8/’2B) that there
are only two shops not run by Chinese.
Even in Cavanagh-street, which is Darwin’s
Chinatown, among the shops staffed and
owned by white folk are a restaurant, a
stationer’s, a bike-repairing shop, a plum-
ber’s and a soft-drinks factory*. In other
streets, exclusive of motor garages and the
two local newspapers, a big general store
is entirely in Caucasian hands, and the
same applies to a cold storage and butchery,
also a new picture palace, both about to be
erected. All the barbers are white., and so are
most of the wood-carters, and the three
hotels are white'. The existing butchery is
owned by a white man, even if mainly run
by Chinese and niggers. In fact, the white
man is quietly elbowing the yellow man
into the background in this outpost of
Australia.


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
WAGONS -LITS CO.
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
d
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNEs
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildinff
(Next G.P.0.).
©76
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE, MELBOURNE.
I
g g S
118
zrm
m
Capital Paid up
5,000,000
. Reserve Fund
£3,000,000
Total Assets
£45,622,056
480 Offices and Branches in
Australia.
LONDON OFFICES:
7 Lothbury an:.
Australia House, Strand.
Principal Office in New South Wales:
342 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bank provides a complete service covering the financial
side of Australian Industry—including farming, grazing,
manufacturing, transport, wholesale and retail trade, as well
as import and export transactions. It makes loans against
approved securities and allows interest on money lodged on
deposit for terms ranging up to two years. Full provision
is made to meet the banking needs of tourists and settlers.
Agents throughout the World.
ďfd
DELCO-LIGHT
means
A COOLER SUMMER
qelco-light
does more than provide
unfailing electric lighting for your home.
It is waiting to serve you 24 hours each day
—it bestows comforts in the hot months as
well as in the Winter.
Delco-Light means a cooler Summer! In
the bedroom, living-room and kitchen the
touch of a switch sets fans whirring and
you enjoy a cool breath as of ocean breezes.
Delco-Light brings also the inestimable boon
of permanent electric refrigeration with
Frigidaire.
Delco-Light and Frigidaire ensure food fresh-
ness through stifling Summer heat—cooked
meats, uncooked meats and other perishable
commodities are kept in perfect condition
for days in a temperature always well below
45 degrees. Butter is always firm and tasty,
vegetables remain crisp and juicy, and you
may know the daily delight of frozen dainties
and icy-cold drinks.
Delco-Light still further guarantees Summer
comfort, for it saves manual labor indoors
and out-of-doors. The electric iron, vacuum-
cleaner, washing-machine, pumps these
come to your home with Delco-Light. Make
this Summer cooler, less tedious with Delco-
Light. Fill in your name and address and
post this advertisement for full particulars.
-
DISTRIBUTORS:
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
307-15 Kent Street, Sydney
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide
STEWART & MACLEAN PTY.,
LTD.,
104 George Street, Launceston
Please send me Booklet “B,” giving full particulars
of Delco Light.
NAME
ADDBESS
DELCO-LIGHT
Product of General Motors.


Under
Royal
Warrant
J4>
ms
ToH.M
Kin£
GeorgeV
Vintage 1920. j
CHAMPAGNE <
inn
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
Cmampach*
QarksIIcidsi* 1^
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
All lor
\JO\I
Telegraphic, Cable, and
Wireless Addresa:
"Austraotel,” Sydney
Delightful phases of the art
of living—unexpected com-
forts and surprising features
—atmosphere and resources
that are rightfully world-
famous.
A magnificently-illustrated book-
let tells of the manifold attrac-
tions that await you at "The Aus-
tralia”—write for your copy if
you are coming to Sydney.
Australia
Capital Paid-Up, £422,100
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH
SYDNEY
cen/re of Queens fonc/s
iS'OC/O'/ l-ffe*
WM
<^r RTDTSiq
BRISBANE
Magmhcent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
f
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The commemoration of the tenth anniver-
sary of Armistice Day commenced on Friday
with the sale of poppies for the relief of
distressed Diggers. On Sunday memorial
services were held in all the churches, and
on Monday there was a public gathering at
the Cenotaph in Martin-place. Here were
massed companies of fighting men in the
uniforms of the Navy, the Army and the Air
Force: and while the flags at the Cenotaph
were lowered half-mast and arms were pre-
sented, hundreds of men in civvies whose
badges told of service kept tight-lipped ren-
dezvous with the mates who will never re-
turn.
What most struck this Letter this year
is that these Anzacs are growing middle-
aged ; already looking on some of them one
can see the day very near when we shall be
calling them veterans!
In the great multitude were Diggers’
fathers and mothers and sweethearts innum-
erable : their memories filled Martin-place,
rose against its stone sides as intangible and
pervasive as mountain mist. But it was a
business-like ceremonial; in less than half an
hour it was ended. Place and power had
descended from the dais and heaped the
Cenotaph with garden glories; and the Last
Post was filling many an eye with furtive
tears.
Fire racing through Blue Mountain gorges,
leaping up the sides of the more peaceful
valleys of Mittagong and Bowral, threatening
to reduce the townships on their crests to
dust and ashes; fire blazing down the South
Coast; rich grasslands licked at a breath;
even the city’s outer suburbs menaced by
the unharnessed terror; add to this a wilt-
ing heat, a water supply that disgraces the
board which controls it, and a howling west-
erly, and you have the beginning of an idea
of what Sydney and its surroundings went
through in the waist of last week. At Glen-
brook five cottages were destroyed, and most
of the village might have gone the same
way only for the heroic efforts of men,
women and children who fought the licking,
darting tongues of flame. Blaxland and
Valley Heights sizzled and grew afraid as
the fires closed in upon them. The mountain
dweller returning home by car fought his
way through blinding smoke and blazing
scrub. At Mittagong eight cottages paid
toll, and here again volunteer fire-fighters
saved many homes—the girls at Frensham
added fire-fighting to the curriculum. Suburbs
on the north side of the harbor kept not
only their own brigades but reinforcements
from the city busy. Beyond, in French's
Forest, the Diggers who are still left trying
to scratch a living from inhospitable soil,
saw their struggling plantations wilt in the
heated smoke-laden blasts; and around them
at the week-end the gullies still flamed. At
Lambton Heights, outside Newcastle, a curious
party left its car to look into an inferno
raging in a gully beneath them. They re-
turned to find the car broken away from its
brakes and itself rushing towards the fiery
pit, which in a few seconds swallowed it.
One of the big parties of the week was
the Feminists’ Club welcome to its new
president, Mrs. Kenneth Street. This wife
of a Judge and daughter-in-law of a Chief
Justice hasn’t always been an orthodox
citizen, and something of the old gleam crept
into her eye when Mrs. Albert Littlejohn
announced with a toss of her own emerald
earrings that the Feminists’ new leader had
been one of the suffragettes’ standard-
bearers in their marches through London.
The Feminists bit on this and found it sweet
to the palate, answering with applause that
rang among the very rafters of Heaven —well,
at least of 77 King-street. Dorothy Perkins
roses and greeny shoots were twined about
the platform and the pillars of the shrine;
and Mrs. Street held a cluster of presenta-
tion pansies against her black and white
frocking. Louis Stone told how he wrote
“In the Lap of the Gods” 13 years
since, and only saw it produced a week or
two ago, by Gregan McMahon. Actress
Eileen Sparks, looking sweet in lilac georg-
ettes freighted with tiny lace frills, spoke
in the animated fashion of one loose on that
most interesting topic of self, and Mrs. Louis
Stone paid the homage of her gaze to her
husband.
Ben Travers, the writer of “The Cuckoo
in the Nest,” “Rookery Nook,” “Mischief”
and half a dozen other laugh-raisers, called
to see The Bulletin last week. He speaks
as one whose words are set to laughter—
a booming chuckle of laughter. He is addic-
ted to grey clothes and well-cut shoes, and
he’s the first Englishman this Letter has
met for a year who praises the Australian
voice. Especially the Australian woman's.
But he’s a married man with three children,
so local Sarah Bernhardts and Sybil Thorn-
dykes need not apply.
Mr. Travers thinks that, as far as he
has met us, we are inclined to be over-sensi-
tive to criticism, and that, while we don’t
call on a stranger to admire our harbor and
our institutions, there’s a look in our eye
that makes him hasten to do it. He has
himself the ruddy complexion that goes with
red hair, but his is toned down to a golden
brown; he has square shoulders, is not too
tall, and has a way of glancing up suddenly
from below a bent brow—such a look as
one of Peter Graham’s Highland cattle might
fling. He lives in Somerset —and this Letter
thinks it. too, would live somewhere near Por-
lock if it didn’t put its pink pinny on in
Sydney—and he resembles a squire rather
than a follower of the arts. He was in the
Air Force for the duration of the war;
started life as a reader in a publishing house;
had his first play, “The Dippers,” accepted by
Charles Hawtrey a month after it was
written, and has gone on steadily to fame
and fortune ever since. He says he’d willingly
become a Boy Scout if some of the silk-
legged Sydney girls would become Girl
Guides. He is staying till Friday week at
the Australian Club, and when not at the
cricket lie’s playing golf at Rose Bay or
surfing at Bondi.
He exclaims over our sunlight and bewails
the effect the lack of sunshine is having on
the people of England. “Yes,” this Letter
murmured sympathetically—“such a bad
effect on the physique!” “Oh, our physique
is all right.” The reply came with an almost
startling sharpness. Sensitive? God rest
ye, Merry Gentlemen!
Flounced panels of tulle are among the
newest ideas for giving length to the short
evening frock. One pretty bit of evening fluff
in Pitt-street last week was made of black
tulle and satin, its long semi-fitting bodice
ending in cocoon-like layers of tulle that
floated away into these panels. Frills appear
on every frock.
This Letter is still blinking over a black
taffeta suit that arrived last week from Paris
for a Sydney bride’s trousseau. The coat fit-
ted around the hips in the jumper fashion ;
it was fashioned with two paste buttons, and
there was a large butterfly-bow standing out
at the back of the neck where most staid coats
end in a flat collar. The skirt had a panel
of pintucks on each hip, and Was topped by a
long bodice of white marocain. This was
cut in cross-over fashion and edged in black.
This same bride boasts a soft black satin,
whose tight bodice 1 is sown with bright red
poppyheads. The same flowers burn on the
skirt, which is short in front and long behind
in the Dorothy Draggletail fashion of the old
nursery rhyme.
Why didn’t Mr. Bavin send for Mrs.
Donald Esplin when he found he lacked
revenue? The good-looking lady in the Dayne
picture alongside has been for 10 years trea-
surer of Shore
Gram m a r
School’s fete;
and every year
finds this
money-raiser a
greater success.
Last month’s
effort was a
record, even
for Sydney.
The aft e r-
noon’s turn-
o v e r was
£1922, with
only £IIG to
be deducted
for expenses!
Jay Gould
himself might
have counted
it good busi-
nes s. Mr s.
Esplin’s own
sons are all
“Shore” boys; the school’s memorial playing-
fields at Northbridge are the yearly subject
of the f§te.
Not so many bridegrooms have a bronze
parent to introduce their brides to when
they first go a-walking in the city’s gardens.
The Bulletin’s brilliant John Dailey
decided that it was a pity to waste the
statue for ivant of the bride; and, Claire
Scott agreeing, the thing was as good as
done. His wife —they were married on
Thursday—is an artist, popular in Mel-
bourne ; she also became quite a vogue in
London as a painter of children and animals.
The dramatic-looking heads on John’s novels,
“No Armor” (it ran to several editions in
London) and “Max Flambard,” now
on its way to publisher John Lane, are Miss
Scott’s designs. Congratulations can be
addressed to Kelburn Hall, Elizabeth Bay.
Flying-man Harold Arthur Litchfield, who
won glory as navigator of the Southern
Cross when Kingsford Smith and Ulm
piloted the great bird across the Tasman,
was wedded to his Dretty Rena Holdsworth
at St. James’s. The altar rails were banked
with lilies and roses, and here, in company
with Kingsford Smith, the groom waited
for his bride, wdiile Faunee Allman was
busy at the organ and Padre Russell fin-
gered his book of words. Thistledown raiment
of blonde lace and georgette, many-
frilled and tied with a satin ribbon sash,
allied to a lotus-blue straw hat with an
upcurled brim, and blue kid shoes, was the
commendable wear of the bride. Her friend
Mrs. Fyvie Marr walked in the procession.
Coin-spotted ninons in beige and navy, a
sheaf of yellow roses and gladoili and a
wide black hat were noted as she passed.
The bride’s mother is Mrs. A. Holdswortli,
of Bellevue Hill. The groom hails from New-
castle. A faithful motor-car served for a
chariot in which to chase the honeymoon.
Greet Mrs. John Garlick, wife of Sydney’s
new civic chief, keen house-mistress in her
working hours and keen motorist and gar-
dener in her spare ones. As Miss Annie Hill
she was for years one of the city’s success-
ful business women—“ Hill’s sweet shops”
were known to
a 11 theatre-
goers, and
Hill’s in Cas-
tlereagli-street
was quite a
meeting place.
It is claimed
for her that
she introduced
the paper ice-
cream contain-
er into Syd-
ney. and there-
by brought joy
to coun tl es s
young Austra-
lia n s. Her
business - like
methods were
shown last
week when she
called her first
meeting since
her husband
got his new job, its object to organise a
cabaret and card party in aid of the £25,000
appeal which has been launched to establish
open-air industries for T.B. soldiers. The
picture is from Dayne.
Jean Ross, second daughter of the Rosses
of Garangula, Harden, a polo-playing clan,
stayed in her own district for her wedding
last week. She was married in the Ross
Memorial Kirk, and blushed between be-
gonia pink frocking and the same tender-
lined millinery. Bridesmaid Valmai Ross
also bloomed like a pale pink rose; and
pink was in evidence, too, in church and re-
ception decorations. Gordon Ward, of Mos-
man, was the bridegroom; and Fraser
Beveridge best-manned.
Padre Hugh Paton, in St. Stephen's Kirk,
clamped the link that binds Nancy Daly, of
Neutral Bay, and John Wardlaw, of Girra-
wheen, Inverell. Red frock, red hat and
red-heeled shoes made a startling splash of
color as the bride stepped up the aisle on
father’s arm. Bridesmaid Patricia Daly, too,
w’ore red, but in spots scattered over a white
muslin frock, with which she carried a
basket of deep red roses. Toasts followed
at the bride’s home under Mrs. J. E. Daly’s
dispensing. The honeymoon threatens to
last several months. Saturday’s outward-
bound Otranto bore Mr. and Mrs. Wardlaw
towards England and the Continent.
A long silver train like a track of moon-
light on the Harbor scintillated in the wake
of Violette Heath as she walked the aisle of
St. Paul’s in Chatswood one night last week;
and Stuart N. Sendall waited the' approach
of the mist of georgette and tulle. Two
’maids in daffodil taffetas and carrying erect
clusters of blue delphiniums followed the
leading lady, who is a well-known Chats-
wood girl. The groom’s father and mother
are the William Send alls, wdio made the
Bellevue in Brisbane their headquarters for
years and years. Mr. and Mrs. Robert Heath,
the bride’s father and mother, set the recep-
tion within the Chatswod Town Hall.
Mrs. Freeliill, of Carmona, continues to
hand out pleasant surprises to the boys of
Westmead. A complete outfit of new uni-
forms for the band, an artistic rotunda
and a 60-foot flagstaff are among her recent
gifts. The rotunda was dedicated by
Cardinal Cerretti early last week, and his
Eminence on Thursday joined the boys of
the home and the girls of St. Martha’s at
their picnic at Clifton Gardens —another
happy bit of Mrs. Freehill’s hospitality to
the youngsters.
Dr. Pettorelli, who made such a success
of the musical part of the recent Eucharistic
Congress, is returning to Italy, unfortunately
for Sydney’s church music. Born at Mantua,
where he was ordained, he began his musi-
cal training in the Pontifical School of Sacred
Music in Rome, where he won his doctor’s
degree. A brilliant musician, his “Tu es
Petrus,” composed for the Sydney Congress,
was an outstanding feature in a feast of
music. With his going the choir of 400
voices which lie organised and conducted so
brilliantly will be absorbed into the subur-
ban R.C. choirs from which they were drawn.
While Count Tambiuini is painting sev-
eral commissioned portraits in Australia, ni»
charming wife is putting the final touches
to miniatures so small that they can be set
in diamonds for finger-rings. The first visi
on the artists’ list after leaving Australia
is to the. Dowager Marie, Queen of Roumanu,
whose portrait w T as painted by the Count, and
sold for the benefit of the poor children ol
Roumania. As a composer of music, by
the way, the Count’s name is on a.
written specially for Ruth St., Dennis, the
world-famous dancer. King Victor Emanuel
is among the artist’s royal sitters, and ex-
pressed his keen appreciation of the painting
by handing Count Tamburini a diamond-
crested watch.
Angelo William Sydney Minglietti, aged
several weeks and already the guest of honor
at many parties, was duly christened at St.
Mary’s Cathedral last week. Melba, who is
the godmother of the popular tenor’s infant,
was proxied by Adelaide Allan, of Melbourne.
Prince Alfonso del Drago, of Rome, a cousin
of the King of Spain, came from his pleasant
farm at May’s Hill for the ceremony, and a
silver mug and porringer were his gifts to
his godson. Nan Garvan and Nevin Luit
are godmother and godfather in the second
degree.
“A.G.M.'s” note from London: —
People in the art world are already talking about
Maurice Lambert’s show of sculpture which is to
be held at Tooth’s Gallery next summer. Young
Lambert can invest his work with bizarre and
amusing qualities likely to lead to as much publicity
as Will Longstaff’s other-world pictures. Extra-
ordinary looking birds, a brass sunfish, a headless
and armless Aphrodite in blackened iron on a snow-
white pedestal are among the works already assembled
in his studio. There is also a model of a Madonna
which in its finished state will have a halo of
immense size made of rusty iron. But Lambert will
not give all his time to the unusual, and among
the portraits will be a bust of the Maharanee of
Cooeh Behar, who is such a popular figure in the
English sporting world. This statuette is a com-
mission from another Oriental potentate. These
Indian rulers are generous patrons of the arts.
All those in Sydney who assisted in the musical
development of Dorothy Helmrich ought to be very
proud to-day. Not once in a decade does any singer
get such praise as has just been given her for her
recital in the Wigmore Hall. The entire critical
faculty joined in it. And Miss Helmrich got no
advance publicity; moreover, her voice, though
beautiful, is not phenomenal in range or quality.
But her programmes always denote the choice of a
great musician, their variety is infinite and her sen-
sitive intelligence brings to every number a high
standard of interpretation. The London criticisms
should count for something on her American tour.
Wodehouse’s “Good Morning, Bill,” and
“Moorings,” by Janet Wright, make up the
bill of the Vagabonds’ new show, which
starts on Thursday and will continue on Fri-
day and Saturday. Three city charities will
benefit.
The Australian Mothercraft Society and Fur-
lough House will share the pool from a dance
on the Orford on December 4. The new Orient
liner will be as crowded as the Ark, judging
by the rush for tickets. Some bridge tables
are being made up, too; Mrs. J. C. Leete
will attend to bookings.
How beautifully nature can adapt herself
to a patriotic atmosphere was shown when
she expressed herself in red roses, white
daisies and blue larkspur for the Ex-Service
Women’s dinner last week. This is. a yearly
function to commemorate Armistice _ Day,
and here Waacs and Wrens live again the
years of war service in France and Eng-
land that are now the foundations of their
club in Australia. Nancy Norris, the club
president, was hostess; Dr. Lucy Gullett,
in a voice that boomed as pleasantly as a
sweet-cloyed bee, gave the toasts, and Eliza-
beth Macdonald proposed “The Day We
Celebrate,” with a becoming dignity.
Drab homes circle the District Nurses’
daily rounds, and maybe it was desire for
contrast that caused the committee to pick
the prettiest ballroom in Sydney for the
dance held for the benefit of this organisa-
tion. It is true that Tony Hordern’s good
nature had something to do with the matter,
for he lent the pavilion of Retford Hall for
the occasion. This pavilion is set in delights.
With the Harbor for its front doorstep, it
is at the foot of terraced lawns led to by
paths where trees grow greenly and all
flowers fashionable to the season bloom in
profusion—the trees looking black against
the electrics that sparkled in the hot stillness
of Thursday night. Mrs. Winifred Jenner,
who organised the dance, looked capable in
spite of the heat, and secretary Lelia Coppola
glistened in white and silver like hoar-frost.
Mrs. Mary Irvine expressed interest in the
cause above lavender georgettes, and Veda
Raven was all youth and roseate georgettes.
With Christmas just around the corner,
toys become the important thing. The Girls
of Kincoppal Chambers, in Martin-place,
have a big family to provide with books and
dolls and teddy-bears. They have adopted
the 170 little ones in the Darlington Insti-
tution for the Deaf and Dumb and Blind.
Constance Fewtrell is the secretary of the
society, and your help will be greatly appre-
ciated.


7S
Jtfc
I
m
m + +
4 .
* '***%.
i %
EAUDE COLOGNE
wryßrytr- scKsr«
pSI
'//
#ZE
■
6UKKUMSSEMOH
&
'
Do you want
to he like her—
well - groomed, modem, and
beautiful ? Then you should
never be without your bottle
of (genuine) “4711” Eau de
Cologne, whose fragrant breath
keeps ever young the charms
of beautiful Eve, ever constant
her vitality, loveliness and grace.
Only genuine with the numer
als “4711” on the Blue and
Gold Label. Since 1792 the
standard of exceL
lence —the unrival-
led commodity of an
original recipe.
Obtainable from all leading chemists
and departmental stores.
mil
jsSau de
I Cologne


d
si
Also Hosiery, Woollens, etc. Cash’s Names are
unsurpassed for the Household, Traveller and
School Outfits. Any name woven in fast colof
Will Last
For a
Lifetime
s
a
Saves
Loss and
Trouble
“A Few Stitches and They’re on”
ďf
Actual Size, Style No. 6
The Prices are Moderate
12 doz. 7/6, 6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz. 3/6)
SOLD BY LEADING DRAPERS,
Write for Name Style Circular fo
J. a J CASH Pty Ltd
8S Cubitt Street. Richmond
' Melbourne
df
I
Its happy central position, together with its unusually
complete modern first-class equipment have made it
THE resort ef country, interstate and overseas visitors
to Melbourne ever since the city was founded.
Ele&ric Fires in every bedroom.
Inclusive tariff by Day or Bed and Breakfast Rate
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD
Telegrams and Cables: “Scottsotel, Melbourne”
’Phone; Cent. 9011 (10 lines)
SCOTTS HOTEL
Collins Street, Melbourne
ftiSJ
irw u
9RO
ANAEMIA
Steals your health spoils your
charm.
What woman can feel well or be charming
with the pallor of sickness in her cheeks and
the thinning grip of anaemia marring her
attractiveness of figure? Health, the most
important thing in her life, is at stake. No
wonder she looks worried.
Wise women are turning to
LIVER EXTRACT
to check Anaemia.
No matter how anaemic you are a few spoonfuls
of Kama Vita taken, mixed with your food
will give you back renewed vitality and the
confidence of radiant health. When you take
Kama Vita you can actually SEE the dif-
ference—
Send at once for free literature.
KARNA VITA COMPANY,
226 a George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Federal Government House Ball was a
well-staged affair. The entrance into the
ballroom of their Exes l ., State vice-regals
and retinues to the accompaniment of a
drum-roll was a brilliant spectacle, in which
magnificent full-dress uniforms put ladies’
gowns in the shade. The vice-regents and
their entouraga having mounted the dais, an
attendant collected armfuls of helmets, bus-
bies, gloves and other trappings, and the
G.-G. led off the dance with Lady Somers,
who wore wine-colored georgette and a tiara
of diamonds. Lady Stonehaven, who was
partnered by the State Governor, was in a
robe of the palest green satin dotted with
crystal spots centred with olivines. She
carried an emerald-green feather fan, and
diamonds twinkled in her hair. Lady Hore-
Ruthven combined a skirt of black lace
with a corsage of biscuit georgette trailed
over with pearls. Lady Goodwin’s black
robe sparkled with diamente, and Lady Cam-
pion was in brocaded georgette of petunia
mauve hue. Miss O’Grady was softly clad
in white georgette. Lady Hillingdon looked
attractive in a gown of gold lace.
Eight or nine d6buntates made curtsey to
the Stoneliavens. Among them were Mary
Derham, who has a reputation as a
tennis player; Mary Welsh, from Orange;
and Jan Cress well, whose dad helped to
build the Hood. Alison Fitcliett, from
Terang, was presented in a confection
of pink linked to a lower part of blue. Shaded
blue embroideries and diamente prinked up
the tunic. A few of the debs, wore white,
one was in gold lace, and a couple chose
frilled frocks of the palest pink. Lady Hirst,
introduced an old-world air with a frock of
cobwebby lace over petunia pink; Irene
Vanbrugh appeared in a bunchy gown of
apple-green chiffon taffeta, her hair swathed
in gold and green. Mrs. Arthur Staugliton’s
black gown had bands of cire ribbon, and
trailed a train of black tulle from the waist-
line. Wearing white embroidered in crystal
and heavily fringed Mrs. Otway Falkiner
was an outstanding figure. Mrs. Jim Fair-
bairn, of Mount Elephant, just back from
England, was in black and white lace with
red roses woven into the side. Exquisite
silver lace hanging from shoulder straps of
brilliants formed Mrs. Russell Grimwade’s
gown. Mrs. Spencer Brunton, from the Har-
bor city, wore black lined with crystal. Lady
Malcolm’s floral chiffon frock was topoed
by a tiara of diamonds'. Lace was as much
favored as at the State Government House
ball, Mrs. Norman Falkiner’s wine-liued
georgette and lace gown being noteworthy.
The younger set again showed an affection
for white and pale green. Pink also had
some backers. Vera de Bavay looked very
attractive in pink with a triple berthe edged
with rhinestones; Kathleen Rogers Thomson
was a dainty figure in white georgette;
Yvonne Cohen wore black taffeta; Denise
Fitchett danced in apple-green satin and
Aileen Melnerney looked well in shaded blue
frills.
For the Cup Week Ball at State Govern-
ment House the weather was at its wettest,
&nd there was no strolling amid the lovely
roses in the garden, but the closed-in veran-
dah, an attached marquee and the stairs pro-
vided plenty of sitting-out accommodation.
Some official people and visiting Exes, were
bidden to a preceding dinner. Lady Somers
wore cornflower-blue georgette with an uneven
hem, and diamonds rippled on her gold-tissue
hairband. Lady Stonehaven, who accom-
panied the G.-G., was in black lace with jew-
elled coiffure. Lady Hore-Ruthven displayed
strings of pearls on a black lace robe, and
Lady Campion chose a shaded blue chenille
embossed gown, diamond sprays in thistle
design clinging about her unshingled hair.
Lady Goodwin glittered in sequined apparel
of moonlight blue. Miss Margaret O’Grady,
daughter of the Speck’s Governor, favored a
flounced frock of berry-red. Lady Hirst,
in black satin and pearls, carried a black-
feathered fan, and looked like a Romney por-
trait.. Archbishop Lees, in his episcopal
purple, proudly introduced his new wife, who
looked much younger than her years in sky-
blue taffeta, short of skirt. Wee silver roses
trailed about her light brown hair. English
cricket-captain A. P. F. Chapman brought
his pretty wife, whose frock of flesh pink was
sprinkled with rhinestones.
Our own State Premier Hogan’s wife wore
black tulle ; and Speaker Peacock’s very-popu-
lar lady sported a gold and black gown, which
had touches of green. Mrs. Norman Brookes
was all in glistening white, as also was
Mrs. E. C. Rhodes, whose gorgeous shoes
gleamed like those of Cinderella. Something
new in beaded robes was an all-over design
fashioned like chain armor. Wilma Clarke
wore such a frock in heliotrope and crystal,
with a matching scarf attached to the cor-
sage. Another dress of the kind was in
black and crystal. Mrs. Keppel Palmer, who
carried a quaint peggy-bag with a huge dang-
ling tassel, wore a draped white satin gown ;
Mrs. Alan Spowers was similarly clad, and
Valerie Purves danced in her white presenta-
tion frock. Mrs. Beau Fairbairn favored
lace of honey color, and Pat Lempriere looked
charming in a lengthy frock of cream lace.
Green gowns were numerous. Mrs. Geoffrey
Gibbs, Mrs. Andrew Chirnside, jun., Phyllis
Holmes Hunt and Philippa Stephen, of
Sydney, selected the almond shade. Floral
chiffon was the choice of Mrs. Robert Knox,
Mrs. Eric Harrison and Mrs. W. Cass.
Edna Tabart was attractive in a Frenchy
black taffeta frock embroidered with bunches
of woollen flowers.
Taking no chances with the climate, Lord
and Lady Somers had the tea-marquees for
their garden party last week set upon one of
the Government House lawns, instead of in
the pastures some distance away, as was
formerly the, practice. Though the skies
were cloudy, with a threat of rain, the pre-
caution proved to be unnecessary. The
garden was aglow with yellow broom, and
roses and arum lilies and antirrhinums. His
Ex. and Lady Somers, whose jacaranda blue
georgette frock was shaded by a beige droop
hat, stood within a military tent to receive
guests, and word was passed along the wait-
ing line of nearly two thousand that the
vice-regals would not be very bitterly
affronted jf anyone dodged the hand-shaking.
Some thoughtful folk took the hint. Femi-
nine dressing was on the quiet side, but
navy, army and air force uniforms supplied
dashes of color. A band was stationed be-
neath a spreading oak. The G.G. and Lady
Stonehaven were guests, her Ex. having
beneath a striped velvet coat a frock of
ivory georgette, worn with a lemon-colored
felt hat. Lady Hore-Ruthven looked smart
in pink and black patterned gown, black
velvet coat and large black hat. Lady
Duckham and her "daughter Phyllis and
Lady Hirst represented the Big Four.
Mrs. Oscar Lempriere arrested the eye
with her black and white spotted gown and
black hat, iind Mrs. H. H. Smith’s biscuit
lace and georgette draperies were combined
with rose-red millinery. Speaker Peacock’s
lady introduced her cousin Jean Holden, all
in grey; she is on a visit from Ireland.
Gladys Collins, who has had her portrait
painted by Lambert, featured in frock and
flowing cape a color scheme of petunia and
lapis-lazuli blue. Mrs. W. M. Robins was
smartly gowned in black; Mrs. Percy Berry
had fine chantilly lace over faint pink, with
a black satin coat embroidered in similar
shades; and Prof. Scott’s wife chose peri-
winkle blue chiffon velvet. Frank Clarke’s
lady was a study in brqnze and brown. Three
of the younger set who looked attractive
were Lucy Stogdale, whose bright blue suit
had wonderful sequin and oriental trimming,
and Phyllis Robb and Esme Frankenburg,
in dainty floral chiffon frocks. Mrs. Keating
and Tulla, Mrs. Pohlman and daughter
Dorothy and Dff. and Mrs. J. C. V. Behan
were among the promenaders.
Out of this window looks Dawn Harding,
a student of singing at the Albert-street
Con., who will
make her first
bow in opera
as Dorabella
in Mo z art’s
“C os i Fan
Tutti,” which
is to have a
week’s season
at the Play-
house under
Fritz Hart’s
direction, com-
meni'cing on
Saturday. She
is the only
daughter of the
Harry Hard-
ings, of Hors-
ham, and is
well known in
the Wimmera
district. She
won the grand
aggregate prize
at the Balla-
rat competitions in 1926, and her voice has
been broadcasted. Rembrandt made the
picture.
A human caterpillar with about four
thousand legs wended its way across Federal
Government House lawn on Friday after-
noon to shake hands with the Stoneliavens
before partaking of tea and cake in the
ballroom, where teacups clattered to orches-
trated melodies from “The Desert Song. - ’
The weather was beautifully bright, though
there was a chill in the breeze, and many
women donned their party frocks. Lady
Stonehaven was in chiffon voile patterned in
iris blue and pink, with corresponding mil-
linery. The house-party of visiting Exes,
and their staffs mingled with the populace.
The State Governor and Lady Somers also
joined the throng, she wearing a dainty
brown and white chiffon frock with lace
embellishment and a twine-colored crinoline
straw hat. The Irvine lady was in gown and
hat of sapphire-blue. and Mayoress
Luxton, she all in fawn tones, held a little
court of their own, having assumed office
a few hours previously. Dr. and Mrs.
Vivers, of Sydney, were an outstanding
couple, she —the beauteous Irene Marks that
was—looking handsome in figured brown and
fawn spotted crepe de Chine, with a nigger-
brown plush hat looped with satin ribbon.
Mrs. Murray Morton combined a biscuit felt
hat with frock of rust color. Air-Commo-
dore Williams was with his wife, who wore
figured silk and a black hat. Mr. and Mrs.
Allan Wilkie represented the stage. Mrs.
Rolls and her daughter Joyce; Mrs. Ainslie
and her daughter Beryl, who brought with
them a relative from the Harbor City, Mrs.
Noel Goodsir; Mrs. M. J'. D. Page with
Madeleine; the Boyd Flaxmans; and Mrs.
Malcolm and Nest were guests. Miss.E.
Onians took an afternoon off from looking
after the newsboys, and others who accepted
invitations were Mrs. J. C. Westhoven, Mrs.
Harold Gardiner; Mrs. Herbert Brookes, in
summery gown of flowered ninon in fawn
and blue hues; and Lieut.-Col. T. W. White
and Mrs. White.
The pretty brunette pictured here by
Lafayette is Biddy Tallis, only daughter
of George
Tallis, of the
J.C.W. firm,
and his lady.
Though Miss
Tallis is not
long back from
a trip to
U.S.A., cut
short owing to
illness, she is
taking a n
active part in
organi sing
charity func-
tions, and was
one of the
ticket secre-
taries for the
ball held at
Logan House
to benefit the
radium ward
of Melbourne
Hospital.
The Australian Club Ball, one of the great
social events of Cup Week, was a happening
of Friday night, and was attended by all
the vice-regents resident and visiting, and the
Big Four. Streamers of gold, red and
silver and lots of flowers gave the ballroom
a festive air, and roses and lilies-of-the-
valley were plentifully distributed elsewhere.
On the v.-r. supper-table were a bark hut, a
kangaroo and an emu done in pansies. Lady
Stonehaven wore a gown of chiffon, traced
in black and gold, and Lady Somers was in
white with embroidery of crystal and blue
beads.
One of the very few private hops of Cup
Week was that hostessed by Mrs. Robert
Knox and Mrs. George Landale at Gren-
knowe, the Knox residence at Toorak, which
was titivated for the occasion with pink
rhododendrons and lilies of the valley. Mrs.
Knox wore floating draperies of figured chif-
fon in a blurred design of black, dull green
and red; and twine-colored lace was the
covering of her co-entertainer. Rear-Admiral
Napier and Mrs. Napier, Rear-Admiral Hyde
and Lady Duckham and her two daughters
were dancers. Lady Evelyn Malcolm, wear-
ing a flowered chiffon gown, brought her
daughter Miss Farquhar, in a simple frock of
deep cream lace. Others there were the
Consul for France, Rene Turck, and his
wife and the Eric Harrisons.
Oaks Day, usually looked forward to as
the dress parade of the V.R.C. Spring meet-
ing, was a disappointment in this respect,
the weather being of the maybe-maybe-not-
sort before luncheon, though it was beau-
tifully fine afterwards. Vice-regal enclosures
positively overflowed with guests, but there
was little noteworthy in the l’rocking, and
the men discarded belltoppers in favor of
bowlers. Lady Stonehaven blended in coat,
frock and straw-hat tones of fawn and
brown. Lady Somers covered her ecru lace
gown with a kasha coat, contrasted with an
apple-g*een straw hat. Lady Hore-Ruthven
was in black and white; Lady Goodwin
favored bois-de-rose in gown and millinery;
Lady Campion wore raiment of beige shade;
and Miss O’Grady displayed her special hue
of red. The overseas banker Lord Hilling-
don, who was there on crutches, was in the
Government House party, his wife wearing
an ensemble of blue-cloth coat and floral
ninon. Stephen Morell and his lady made
their very last appearance in an official capa-
city, for on Friday Harold Luxton was in-
stalled as civic head.
Mrs. H. Rosenthal’s mink cape revealed
beneath it a lovely lace gown. Mrs. Rich-
ard Linton, who was one of the many who
relished the smartness of black and white,
brought her nieces, Molly Bannister, from
Tamworth, and Elaine Linton, of Sydney.
Mrs. A. V. Kewney, Mrs. Rupert Downes, in
powder blue; Mrs. Cantley Shaw, of the
Western district; Mrs. Allan Robertson; and
Mrs. R. R. Vincent, of Geelong, were patrol-
lers of the lawn. Commander Graham Brown
and his wife, she in saxe-blue suit and mil-
linery, were vice-regal guests. Phyllis Bray,
a pretty girl from Adelaide, who was at the
Federal Government House Ball, was one of
a bevy of nicely-frocked society misses. A
much-travelled lass wore a floral chiffon frock
that advertised its foreign origin. It had its
trimming on wrists and collar narrow bands
embroidered with the information : “French
Riviera frock.” The Barry Thomsons, th ■
Ben Chaffeys. the Winter Irvings and the
W. Rogers Thomsons were some of the
regular racegoers present.
Saturday, when the V.R.C. concluded its
meeting, was a race-day made to order. One
forgot the failure of favorites in the caress-
ing warmth of a radiant sun. After a
season of drab covering the girls flocked to
Flemington like butterflies emerging from
thtf chrysalis, wearing bright-hued chiffons
and ninons, and not much underneath. Skirts
frilled, flounced or dangling stray bits in
handkerchief points were on view. Yellow
that rivalled the hue of the beds of pansies
was popular; s.o was a blue deeper than the
richest of delphiniums. Lemon shades were
blended with navy blue or black most suc-
cessfully. Lace gowns in twine and beige—
what a lot of shades that word beige covers!
—;black, and various sorts of blue mingled
with magpie and navy models, but blossomed
and patterned fabrics held the lead for once.
Shady hats gay of hue as Joseph’s coat
were worn by all airily-clad damsels, the
trimming being in most cases very simple.
Artificial flower sprays were to be seen in
thousands. Parasols, giddy transparent
affairs embossed with chenille or velvet
flowers, or glistening in the sun with a top
dress of silvery beads, added to the bright-
ness of the scene, and shoes of all colors
twinkled on the groundline.
There was a full muster of Exes., the Com-
monwealth and every State save N. S.
Wales, whose Governor is on holiday abroad,
being represented, and the Big Four and
their womenfolk also watched the racing. Lady
Stonehaven’s ivory-georgette frock was worn
with a sulphur-silk coat and felt hat. Lady
Somers sported crGpe de Chine in a check
pattern of pale yellow and dull green, with a
brown straw hat. Mrs. Kelso King, of Syd-
ney, was well turned out in an ensemble
suit in a blurred plaid pattern, buff and
green, with a reseda-green hat. Mrs. A. V.
Kewney, who entertained some friends at
luncheon, chose brown chiffon scattered with
deep pink roses beneath a black-satin coat.
Mrs. Sep Miller was distinctive in a cerise
georgette frock and tuscan hat. Mrs. Charlie
Mitchell was one of the few clad in white.
Mrs. Herbert Power’s party at her
Toorak home, which is one of the time-
honored afternoon affairs of Cup week, in-
cluded this year her nephew, Sir John
Goodwin, Governor of Queensland, and Rear-
Admiral Hydet Lady Goodwin, who. accom-
panied his Ex., wore navy blue with touches
of beige and a dark blue hat. Mrs. Power,
who was aided by her daughters Gladys,
Nora and Meta, was attired in white georg-
ette beneath black lace. Among the femi-
nine guests were Mrs. Reggie Power, in
magpie garb with a shiny straw hat; her
daughter Faith, in pink; Mrs. Robert Power;
Irene Vanbrugh and Mrs. Geoffrey Gibbs.
Shura Cherkassky’s fame preceded him.
and at his first recital in. the Town Hall on
Saturday night he salaamed to a big audi-
ence that was bloated by streams of late-
comers after both his first and second num-
bers. The youth fulfilled all expectations
and his serious expression broke into a
pleased smile at the warmth of his welcome.
The Allen lady and her daughter Biddy,
Mrs. Plunkett with her two sons, Rita Hope,
Muriel Campbell, Mrs. C. Fraser and
Edward Goll were a few of those who swelled
the youngster’s triumph.
Thelma, the youngest daughter of the
Arnold Coopers, of East Ivew, has had the
orthodox finger lassoed with a diamond loop
Fred Dry, of Christchurch (M.L.), and
formerly of Melbourne, was the happy
hunter.
Mr. and Mrs. Sutton Crow assembled a
crowd of ex-students of the Uni. Con in the
Tallis wing of Melba Hall on Friday night
to welcome Shura Cherkassky. The lad,
who came with liis father and E. J. Grave-
stock, received greeting from the host, who is
president of the Old Students’ Club and
secretary of the Uni. Con., and Thomas
Brentnal!. Mr. Gravestock replied for his
charge, who is not yet an adept at speech-
making in English. Ada Freeman and Con-
stance Ziebel served up a particularly well-
played Grieg piano and violin sonata as a
sample of the Corn’s talent. Mrs. Crow, who
wore a pale pink gown with floral embroidery
creeping up the skirt, had the support in
her duties as hostess of the club’s lion, sec..
Winifred Mitchell, who was in sparkling
coral pink.


:' -
*•
m
■
m
m
:.-'V
'mm
m
m
SIGNOR APOLLO GRANFORTE.
World-famed Interpretative
Vocalist Praises the Beale
APOLLO GRANFORTE, Premier Baritone to
ihp the Williamson-Melba Grand Opera Company, Seasons
1924 and 1928, has a voice of superb golden quality,
allied to unusual dramatic powers.
In Australia he has delighted audiences by his rendition in
roles so diverse as Scarpia, in *La Tosca ; Jester in
“Rigoletto”; King Manfred in “L’Amore dei Tre Re”; Clown
in “I Pagliacci”; and Count Lunar in “II Trovatore.’’
In a letter to Beale & Co., Ltd., Sydney, dated 23rd August,
1928, Signor Granforte writes:
Gentlemen, —Let me please express my extreme admiration for the tonal beauty of
the pianos made by your Company in Sydney.
I am astonished at a beauty and' richness of tone-quality, far surpassing that of any
European Piano I am acquainted with.
One supposes that you have found—as 1 have in Australia—an audience at once
closely critical and generously appreciative.—With compliments, A. GRANFORTE.
BEALE & CO. LTD.
Showrooms: 340 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Head Office and Factories: TRAFALGAR STREET, ANNANDALE, N.S.W.
BRANCHES —A ew South Wales: Newcastle, Wollongong, Lismore, Bathurst, Tamworth, and Maples at
Wagga and Albury. Victoria: Maples in . all Melbourne suburbs. Tasmania: Maples, Hobart and
Launceston. South Australia: Savery’s Pianos, Limited, Adelaide. Western Australia: Thomson’s,
Limited. Queensland: G. J. Grice, Limited, Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.


S3cr
jDA
ifS
a
e?
2kS
>t:7 -^wr
*> 5% n , a ■ <?
‘•fcira&a
31
t
xx
&£
M'
m
we
:-oC
s"£/*2
l&
KV
ft
32
Sa#
fK
MS
i-'-
XX
m
cm.*
sa
Is
74-
5 %
%
rws
*
£
i
||IU
V<s
<*>
H
m:
A
¥M
%»/ PA
im
m
MW
1 &V-. 7
ď
Can You Trust
the Labor Party to
Australia” in Danger! Govera^i tra]la?
Mr. J. S. Garden stated (Mel-
bourne “Argus” July 16) at
the Australasian Council of
Trades Unions at Melbourne
in July of this year:—-
“We of Sydney want Inter-
nationalism. . . . We want to
help all our brothers—black,
brown or brindie.’ 9
At that Council meeting it was decided
by 92 votes to 36 to endorse the affilia-
tion of the Council with the Pan-Pacific
Trade Union Secretariat which has its
headquarters at Shanghai.
The Labor Leaders, with Mr. Scullin at their head, have
not said a word against the affiliation of the Australian
Congress of Trades Unions with the Pan-Pacific
Secretariat, which has laid it down (as reported in the
“Pan-Pacific Worker,” May 1, 1928) that:—
“Discriminatory immigration laws in
some countries, chiefly in Australasia
and America, must be combated.”
Nor have they protested against a
manifesto issued by the N.S.W.
Trades and Labor Council and pub-
lished in the “Pan-Pacific Worker”
on July 1, 1928, as follows:
“We propose that the fundamental policy of the new United Trade Union
International be the Class Struggle, and that all forms of class collaboration
or industrial peace be abandoned as detrimental to the best interests of our
class. It must do everything in its power to do away with all divisions and
splits, to break down all barriers—NATlONAL AND RACIAL AND
RELIGIOUS—which hinder the internationalisation of the working-class
movement.”
The Prime Minister, Mr. Bruce, declared in his Policy Speech:
“The Government is determined to maintain the present 98 per cent, proportion
of British population in the Commonwealth, and has taken steps to reduce and
regulate alien immigration.”
Keep this "Land of Opportunity” for Australians, and Keep it White
Vote for Your your vote ma y decide Australia's destiny
NATIONALIST Candidate and for THE SENATE THREE
Vote i~n YES on Referendum
VOTING IS COMPULSORY
You Must
Vote in
Each Square
0
a
0
ORCHARD
THOMAS
ABBOTT
Give 00(6]
to the
Others
Even where there is no contest for the House of Representatives it is compulsory by law to vote for
the Senate and on the Referendum.
Authorised by
H. W. HORSFIELD,
15 Bligh St., Sydney.
k
i
4
m
05
-^SFS*
SfS' .
\
r^
k
1
tt
k
O
w
*A
li


Amusements.
THE REGENT
Australia’s Most Luxurious Theatre.
(Direction Hoyt’s Theatres, Ltd.)
The Home of
the Superior Motion Picture
and the Effective Presentation.
GRETA GARBO in ANNA KARENINA.
Commencing next Saturday.
UMPIRE THEATRE,
■““* Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
The Russian Super Picture,
THE BEGGAR STUDENT,
With the three most distinguished screen artists of
the Continent in the leading roles,
HARRY LIEDTKE, AGNES ESTERHAZY and
MARIE PANDLER.
AND TEN ORIGINAL VAUDEVILLE ACTS.
Prices: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6.
Matinee: 1/-, 1/6, 2/6. Children half-price.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE VAGABOND KING.
ROYAL: WHITE CARGO.
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
•pH EATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The Royale Syncopators Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
I c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT SONG.
ROYAL:
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT,
THE RINGER.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
ON APPROVAL.
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
THE HILARIOUS COMEDY,
THE FAMILY UPSTAIRS.
THREE ACTS OF LAUGHTER SPARKLING WITH
WITTY LINES.
pRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MatinCcs Thursday and Saturday.
ALLAN WILKIE with Miss HUNTER-WATTS and
his Company of Shakspearean Players in
THE PLAYS OF SHAKSPEARE.
Change of Programme Twice Weekly.
Box Plan at Glen’s and Theatre.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
11 MELBOURNE.
RAMON NOVARRO in
A CERTAIN YOUNG MAN.
ALSO
DOLORES DEL RIO in
NO OTHER WOMAN.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
MURIEL STARR in
CHEATING CHEATERS.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY.
SIR HARRY LAUDER
In the Paramount British Picture,
HUNTINGTOWER
A modern story of the rescue of a Princess from
Russia’s red grasp.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790
WIRTH BROS.’ CIRCUS, LTD.,
OLYMPIA.
ALL NEW ATTRACTIONS.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
Plan at Glen’s.
Old-World
H Galleries. LTD.
65 Duke Street, Grosvenor Square,
London, W.l, England
(.} doors from Oxford Street, near Selfridge’s ).
Cables: Olgallery, Westo, London.
BUY YOUR ENGLISH ANTIQUES FROM
ENGLAND.
\Ve arrange for boxing, consular invoices and
declaration of antiquity, freight, insurance and
delivery to your door at the very lowest
rates. 'Antiques admitted duty*free to Australia.
m
A Dining Room all furnished in guaranteed
antiques (i.e., each piece actually made over
100 years ago), for the low cost of £Bl. lull
illustrated particulars in our Catalogue.
Illustrated Catalogue and Guide, sent on
receipt of 6 d. Australian stamp, contains;
(1) Complete price list; 180 photos ; 60 pages.
(2) Furnishing and color schemes by Mrs.
Barrett. .. , „ ,
(3) “Useful Household Hints,” by H. Stanley
Barrett, architect; contains “How to stain
deal floors to look like oak, and to last
20 years” ; “Best polish for old furniture
and how to make it”; “Cleaning
furniture, etc.”
(4) Old Furniture as a good Investment.
(5) Hints on buying Antiques, on Fakes and
Historical notes.
(6) List of Dates and Periods of Old Furniture.
(7) How to furnish your home in Antiques
for £lOO, giving full description of each
piece.
COUPON. Sydney Bulletin
I enclose 6d. Australian stamp for above
catalogue.
NAME
ADDRESS
QUICK WAY TO
BANISH DANDRUFF
CLEANS HAIR TO ROOTS AND
PROMOTES NEW GROWTH.
Dandruff is caused by tiny germs, and
baldness is a disease originally associated
with dandruff. Both are curable if dealt
with in time. Here is the method: Get some
Vi-glo (this is better than bay rum tonics),
and rub it well into the scalp night and
morning, with fingers kept quite stiff. This
antiseptic-stimulant cleans away every trace
of dandruff like magic, and invigorates the
blood vessels which feed the hair. Vi-glo
is the standard' preparation usually recom-
mended by specialists and better-class chem-
ists to those requesting a really effective
dandruff cure and hair grower. It is a clean,
elegant preparation that does not soil linen,
an I gives every satisfaction even in cases
of premature greyness.
Post Orders accepted by Vi-Glorient Co.,
58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
QCinaA
Ask Your Jewel icr
for
ROTHERHAMS
ENGLISH WATCHES
THE WOMAN'S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3d.
The Little Sisters
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Derby Day, at Ascot, saw many smart frocks
worn. Mrs. N. A. M. Campbell had a pastel-
figured georgette on almond green with a
pink hat. Lady Beatrice Moreton was in
apricot with a cream Baku hat. Mrs. A. B.
Rowley, Parramatta, wore white voile inset
with lace, a black georgette race coat and
small black and white hat. Mrs. Jack
Chandler, of Holly Downs, woi’e rose; Mrs.
Arthur Clark was in ivory crepe de Chine;
Mrs. A. H. Wliittingham wore Paris lace
with a sliell-pink hat; and Mrs. Cecil
Palmer sported jaca’randa-tinted voile with
touches of coral. White and powder blue
was worn by Mrs. E. K. Tully ; Mrs. Duckett-
White chose black and white; and Mrs. M.
L. Reading mastic, with relief of saxe blue.
A party for the benefit of the crbclic and
kindergarten was held in Mrs. W. Ross-
Munro’s charming garden. Blue hydrangeas,
tall arum-lilies, roses, gay gladioli and car-
nations were all a-bloom, and the committee
of the Paddington branch had charge of
arrangements. Flags decked the porch,
where Mrs. Ross-Munro received, in sand-
colored crepe de Chine with a vest of guipure
and a picture hat of cream ballibunti, lined
with black lace and trimmed with red and
black. On the verandah tables for bridge
were set. A tennis tournament and a chocolate
wheel, which Mrs. E. C. Gallagher, of Charle-
ville, superintended, were other items. Tea
was served in a marquee on the eastern lawn.
The Mayor and Mayoress and Dean and Mrs.
de Witt Batty were in the throng.
Mrs. Ryan had a tea at Lennon’s for Mrs.
D. P. O’Brien, of Rockhampton, in a setting
of roses and carnations. Mrs. Ryan’s grey
georgette was worn with a wide-brimmed
grey hat, and Mrs. O’Brien was in beige
mariette and lace with black hat. Amongst
the tea-drinkers were Mrs. J. W. Blair, Mrs.
Corser and Mrs. H. L. Archdall.
Another tea given at the same rendezvous
was hostessed by Mrs. L. C. Woodward, and
was for Rita Robinson, who is going to
Adelaide. Mrs. Woodward’s mushroom crepe
de Chine had touches of viridene, and rose
and fawn was worn by the guest of honor.
James Cathie White, of Mount Morgan,
married Enid, daughter of the E. J. Gilling-
waters, in St. Andrew’s Kirk, Ann-street.
The bride wore a sleeveless gown of ivory
satin and tulle. Her long tulle veil had a
eh in strap, and her shower bouquet of roses,
lilies and carnations was set in tulle. Clara
Lanyon and Gwenda Stewart ’maided in
Nile-green crepe de Chine. They had large
Baku hats piped in green with a pale-pink
chou, and carried posies of apricot-tinted
gladioli.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Never before have our inter-school sports
been so thrilling as this year. At the start
of the last event, the open mile, points were
so close that each of the four schools had
a chance of winning. High School’s repre-
sentatives, Campbell-Wilson and Thomson,
ran first and second, thus securing the Alcock
Shield. Among the onlookers in the cricket-
ground grandstand were Mrs. O’Hara and
her daughter, Mrs. Lamb, Emma Trigg, Lois
and Guida Weir, Helen Beaton and Bar-
bara Male, the last-named sporting a gold
anklet on a black silk stocking.
The bright-looking lady pictured here by
Bardwell Clarke is Mrs. Shortland-Jones, one
of our busiest philanthropists. She is the
only woman on the board of the Children’s
Hospital, which is her pet charity. Nine
years ago she set in motion the machinery of
the first Children’s Hospital Ball, and for
the five fol-
lowing years
organised what
soon became
one of our
biggest annual
dances. The
hospital has
greatly in-
creased its
equipment
through her
energies; and
just at present
she is schem-
ing to provide
an electric re-
frigerator. She
is also devot-
ing time to the
Otranto ball
on the 19th,
the proceeds of
which will be
divided be-
tween the Children’s Hospital and the Par-
kerville Home. Mrs. Shortland-Jones did
her bit of war work with the Cheer-Up
Society, and has been a fairy godmother to
the girls at James-street school. The
school library and tennis-courts in West
Perth were formed through her foresight, and
the annual school ball was instituted by her.
Yachting with her husband and family fills
in any spare week-ends of summer.
Roses, deep red, pink and gold, decorated
the Karrakatta Club Hall for the Repertory
Club’s dance, and in the supper-room tables
were spread amid bowls of gladioli, car-
nations and more roses. Bidda Beveridge,
secretary of the dance committee, danced
in apricot chiffons. The president's wife,
Mrs. Patou, and Molly Ick chose black. Mrs.
Miller. Miss Broadfoot, Moyra Tivey, Joan
Good and Joyce Mortlock were on the com-
mittee.
Comforts for maimed and limbless soldiers
will result from a concert in St. Mary's
Hall organised by Mary Meares. a good
friend to all Diggers. Madame Syunot, Mrs.
J N Thomson, Florence Besley and ban-
tone Jim Ottaway sang; Mrs. Butcher
whistled, and Mr. Palmer spoke some hum-
orous pieces. Mrs. Clarrie Meares accom-
panied. Competitions and an informal sup-
lie.’.’ wound up the programme.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The weather showed an unsporting spirit
at the T.R.C. meeting at Elwick, and presi-
dent Tom Lyons and his wife had an easier
job than usual as hosts for tea. The O’Gradys
watched the racing, Margaret wearing a
black cloth coat with neutria collar and a
tight-fitting black felt hat. Mrs. Lyons wore
blue cr@pe under her fur coat, and a balli-
buntal hat with a large blue rose. Among
country visitors were the Russell Ibbotts,
the Bruce Gibsons, Mrs. Eustace Cameron
and daughter Alison, and Mrs. Dan Archer ;
while among the Hobart throng were the h.
X. de Bavays, Mrs. Agnew, the A. J. Millers,
Mrs. E. H. Webster, the Giblin girls, Sybil
Lyons, the James Murrays, Mrs. Fred Grant,
Dr. and Mrs. J. Sprent, Mrs. Cox Taylor,
Mrs. E. M. Chapman, Joi Chapman, and
Capt. and Mrs. Stoyles. The dressing was
entirely wintry, but some smart effects were
achieved with well-tailored coats and trim
hats.
The Girls’ Industrial School benefits to the
tune of nearly £lOO by the (lance held at
the Continental on Show night, under the
guidance of a committee headed by Nancy
Giblin and Alison Gray. Raffles and the
sale of trifles helped to rake in the shekels.
The decorations included witches on broom-
sticks, harvest moons, pictorial balloons and
festoons of laburnum. Some of. the frocks
were very attractive. The older folk played
bridge in an adjoining room, where Mrs.
Fenn-Smith, Mrs. Gray, Mrs. E. H. Webster
and Mrs. W. W. Giblin were responsible for
tables.
Here you see Elizabeth Jenkins at her
hand-loom in her studio on the slopes of
Mt. Wellington, where among picturesque
surroundings she weaves all manner of
fabrics in linen, silk and wool, after the
manner of the hand-weavers in Italy, where
she first saw the work done at Bellagiov
After returning to Australia from one of
her many trips abroad, Miss Jenkins learned
the craft at a hand-weaving studio in Adel-
aide, conducted by the Misses Lorimer and
Bates, and when she felt proficient enough
she commenced the practice of her profession
in Hobart.
The Choral Society, under G. A. Jackson,
performed Handel’s seldom-heard oratorio
“Joshua” at the Town Hall. The society
has greatly improved in recent times, especi-
ally in choral and orchestral ability. The
soloists, Arthur Lowe, Allan Limb, Frank
Dalton, Mrs. R. Farrar and Mollie Mulcahy,
were all in good voice. The O’Grady was a
listener.
The Launceston Girl Guides welcomed
Miss Wilson, the Scottish Guider, at the
Town Hall. At Longford, Mrs. Vernon
Ransome teaed the visitor and had a big
crowd to meet her, representatives from
Deloraine end surrounding districts among
them.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
There was a dance at the Floating Palais,
where the Herman Homburgs were hosts,
a good-bye to the host and his son and son-
in-law, who are bound for Europe; and an-
other at Wolta Wolta, the It. E. H. Hopes’
home at Clare, to emphasise the opening of
the polo season. There was a match in the
afternoon, when Mrs. A. J. Melrose was tea
hostess.
The Children’s Home at Morialta, the old
Baker home at Norton’s Summit, will be the
chief beneficiary of the Protestant Federa-
tion fete in the Town Hall. Mrs. Lavington
Bonython made a valedictory speech at the
opening, and the stalls were run by com-
mittees of workers from the various suburbs
Dr. Georgina Sweet, here for the Y.W.C.A.
conference, spoke at one of the League of
Nations’ Monday lunches. She was also
chief speaker at a reception given by Mrs.
Lavington Bonython to the delegates.
The lan Flaywards are back from Eng-
land, and are to settle at Glenelg. She is
a daughter of Vic.’s Chief Justice, who, with
the Irvine lady and their other daughter,
came over to meet her. Other returned tra-
vellers include Mrs. de Crespigny and A. ,T.
Roberts, president of the Lawn Tennis Asso-
ciation.
Here on a visit is W. Iv. Birks (the K. is
for Kyffin—his mother was a Kyffin Thomas),
who, at the age of 17, went to Paraguay
as a “New Australian” 35 years ago. He
put in 16 years in Paraguay, and then went
to the Argentine. He is now chief of the
engineering department of the Buenos Ayres
Pacific Railway.
Allan Glover, whose “Hilltop” was bought
by the Gallery at the last Society of Arts
Exhibition, has had two of his etchings
accepted by the Melbourne Gallery; one a
copy of “Hilltop,” the other a marine study.


( jive Chocolates this
iCljrisluuts
11l
r \
$4,
m
. •*. 4 a
&
w; >
W&
S 3
fvn*
fc*
VV’J
&
*»«?
*«V
V*
\> c
ft*
H'
\0 -o^ S if v Vv s ; 9
0^
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-,
10/-, 12/6, 20/-,
30/- and 37/6.
but be sure they’re
miners
Ask to see Hillier’s fine
range of Beautiful Fancy
Boxes, Baskets
and Caskets up to £5/5/-
£in&6tHil£a\
162-166 PITT STREET.
r
ov
e *t
°r>e
>
&
&
o
I
L'j .. ■
e
JJ
aY e ,
V>\«
Cook the
Universal
Way
UNIVERSAL
Greater comfort
Greater convenience
Greater economy
Are the chief factors
in Universal Electric
Cooking, it is cooler
and healthier, too.
Call at any of our
showrooms and ask
for a demonstration,
or write into the
nearest branch office
and ask for literature,
it will be sent to you
with pleasure.
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD.
279 Clarence Street, Sydney
29 Hunter Street, Newcastle
200 Queen Street, Melbourne
55 Charlotte Street, Brisbane
28 Coromandel Place, Adelaide
933 Hay Street, Perth
N
V
Thousands of men and
women have been
astonished with the un-
usual success of this new treat-
ment for such uric acid disorders
as backache and rheumatism.
Men who were losing their
strength, activity and power—
who were being termed “old-
timers”—have “come back”
with such freshness and vigor
as to amaze their friends;
women who were fast losing their
capability and charm have found
a new way to health! Hundred's have recorded their
experiences of this remedy, most of the letters stating
that successful results were promptly obtained where
every other form of treatment had failed.
FIND THE CAUSE.
How useless to soothe a symptom and leave the cause
untouched! Yet thousands are doing that—taking old-fashioned
kidney pills and salts—things which merely treat symptoms I
But with the new remedy—Harrison’s Pills—all this is changed.
Harrison’s Pills have shown people they can easily get rid of
uric acid aches and pains, gaining such energy and freshness
as they have not known for years. By getting rid of the
deadly uric deposits—as well as uric acid itself—Harrison’s
Pills give BETTER HEALTH— reaI health —without fail!
GET BACK YOUR YOUTH.
It is a demonstrated fact that of all the remedies offered for
uric acid and rheumatic disorders not one equals Harrison’s
Pills for giving quick, safe, sure relief and a definite
return to healthy acitvity. There is nothing like this
remedy for those who feel too old before their time....
Nothing like them for bringing back the elastic step of
youth! Harrison’s Pills bear the signature of a London
physician, and are sold under straightforward guarantee.
Backache
and
Rheumatism
This Easy Way
fd
MADE
HIM A NEW MAN.
Dear Sirs, —Due to uric acid and
severe rheumatism, I was practically
dead at 77. In spite of the severity
of my trouble, Harrison s Pills have
made a new man of me, and I feel
not a day older than fifty. I have
never known any remedy act in so
remarkably beneficial a manner.
(Signed) B. Jacobson, Blackman’s
Point, N.S.W.
£100
will be paid to anyone proving this is not a safe
and effective remedy bearing a genuine London
doctor’s signature.
YOU TAKE NO RISK WITH
HARRISON’S PILLS.
Either you throw off your ageing pains and weakness, gaining
quick, unmistakable benefit, or the trial costs you nothing!
Simply get a package of Harrison’s Pills from the nearest chemist
or store. Three sizes, at 2/-, 3/- and 5/-. Take as directed,
and if not freed from your aches and pains—if not more than
pleased with the improvements in your health, strength,
vitality and general bearing—your money will be returned.
This guarantee clearly protects you in making a trial, but, if
preferred, a Free Sample will be sent on receipt of name and
address. Address: Amalgamated Laboratories, Dept. S.B.,
Kembla Building, Sydney.
in*
TAKE
HARRISON’S
Backache and Bladder PILLS
For Backache, Rheumatism, Neuritis, Constipation, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Stiff, Swollen Joints, Urinary and Bladder Troubles.
S 3
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
appr o a c h i n g
age.
It is NOT “THE
THING.”
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Allen's (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold, at all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Manufactured by
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
f
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNETX STREET, SYDNEY.
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Ilegd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
®6ODROCK
KOPEWOHK
EXPORT CO.
T rnn
JJIU.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co,,
214 George Street, Sydney.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
VAdaite Holiday
Hi
-ifyon slay ai°)he Grosvem
Make your home here for
economy’s sake without the
slightest sacrifice of comfort. 300
modernly equipped rooms.
Faultless service.
Write for information booklet.
»GROSVINOR
cJldelaides Finest Unlicensed ,7(otd
Opp. Railway Sin. North Terrace. cMSwifl -Manage?
OUT OF THE DARK
BY JACK MATHEU AND JAMS DEVANEY.
Jack Mathieu is Brisbane’s blind poet, an old “Bulletin” writer and author of
“Backblock Ballads and Lignum Lyrics.” It was he who conceived this story.
OLD Mark Allen, station-owner, local
aristocrat, boss of Murraroo, stood on
the broad verandah of the homestead
and looked out moodily into the white glare
of the sunshine. The great corrugated-iron
shearing-shed was empty and silent once
more, the pens were deserted. Away in the
middle distance a cloud of dust attracted his
gaze for a moment to the patient wool-team
plodding before their enormous load of Mur-
raroo bales, on the way eastward to the
branch line at Narrango, the nearest siding
of the railway which led ultimately to the
docks in Melbourne. Nearer, one of the
stockmen was breaking-in, and a few hands
and neighbors were perched on the high rails
of the yard like crows, watching every detail.
There was an air of prosperity over all,
yet the boss of Murraroo looked a broken
man. Mark Allen was one of the wealthiest
squatters in Victoria’s wealthy west, and the
names in his racing stable were known across
the continent. Old hands over in the men’s
quarters would relate how in the beginning
his father had taken up the land “from the
rise to the horizon” in the days when land
went to the first adventurous newcomer;
how, after the old man’s death, the modern
homestead on the little rise had replaced
the original slab structure; how Mark Allen
had since been twice to Europe, and how,
just a year ago, he had built in Melbourne,
lavishly, recklessly, the famous Dorothy Allen
Memorial Hall. For just a year ago tragedy
had entered the life of the boss of Murraroo.
He had married late in life, seven years
ago; but already he was a lonely man. Far
away to the west he could see from the home-
stead verandah the small railed enclosure
■with its half-dozen mounds. There lay old-
man Allen, the maker of Murraroo, with a
plain grey cross at his head and a rusty
iron railing round him. There lay Billy, the
blackfellow, shot down on the creek below
in his father’s time; and there, too, were a
stockman and a shearer and a nameless
stranger who had reached the station deliri-
ous with drink and had died on their hands.
And among them all rose the splendid new
monument in white marble, a strange and
striking thing in that lonely spot, a great
white angel on tiptoe upon a massive pedes-
tal of granite, under which lay the body of
his wife.
His mind went back to a day twelve
months ago. He had been trying a new
car and was coming home with a last good
run along the ridge track above the creek.
How it had all come to happen he hardly
knew, but there had been the sudden swerve
off the track and down the slope, the scream-
ing of the child, the crashing of saplings,
the pandemonium in his ears as the car
turned over and finally pitched headlong into
the creek-bed. He had regained conscious-
ness late that night to learn that his wife
was dead —mercifully and swiftly killed, they
told him—and that the little girl Dorothy
still breathed but would hardly recover. A
week later they allowed him to leave his
bed, a man grown ten years older. He was
never the same after the loss of his wife and
child.
For Mai-k Allen had lost his child even
though she still lived. The country doctor,
brought in haste from Penoba, thirty-five
miles away, was first puzzled and then
alarmed. He found no broken bones, no seri-
ous injury, but little Dorothy Allen, impul-
sive, impressionable, highly-strung, now lay
or sat like one in a trance, cut off from the
outer world, her numbed senses untouched
by the sights and sounds around her. It
was acute shock, he said, and he urgently
recommended a specialist.
After that old Mark Allen had brought
experts from Melbourne, men with great
names. They only confirmed the local doc-
tor. It was shock, they said; it was a very
distressing case, complete prostration of the
nerve centres. They explained that the in-
jury was functional and not' organic; that
the mind was not affected. They gave it
a scientific name. They described and labelled,
but they could not cure. They used techni-
cal terms, they signed receipts for large
cheques, they clapped stolid old Mark Allen
encouragingly on the back and they drove
off to catch the bi-weekly train.
It was only by degrees that he realised
fully the horror of the thing. Even yet it
c ame always as a new shock to overhear a
servant speak of the “little blind girl.” His
little Dorothy, impulsive, impressionable,
highly-strung, made for the music and the
light'of life like the butterflies out there in
the garden, but now forever deaf, blind !
He would have given the whole of his wealth
to undo this thing; but the men of science
had been explicit, unsparing. Sometimes m
an agony he tried to imagine what a re-
stricted, shut-in world was hers, in the inter-
minable darkness and silence. Sometimes he
almost wished that the child was at rest
with her mother.
The first few months was a time of ter-
rible trial for them all: it was so hard for
them to reach her, was so hard for her to
get into touch with them. She was bewil-
dered, terrified, difficult. They were helpless,
distressed.
And then came young Peter Foyle.
Peter’s mother was a housekeeper on one
of the out-stations, a widow who had been
allowed to bring her child with her. Mrs.
Foyle had been called to the homestead that
first week, had proved herself indispensable,
and had remained. She was kept on when
the boy had become necessary to little
Dorothy.
The change had begun on the first day they
had taken young Peter to her room, sobbing.
She had felt his hands, his face, his wet
cheeks. She did not want to let him go.
“Into her hand his fingers were tapping, ‘Let’s go down to the big trees."
She seemed contented when with him, and
they became playmates. There seemed a
strange communion between these two ; they
understood each other. Even her father’s
mind was inaccessible to her; on Peter she
came to depend; she was lost and unhappy
without him.
Old Mark Allen, standing on the verandah
and turning over these thoughts as he gazed
absently towards the tall white monument
in the distance, was interrupted by a shout
from below. A boy came racing happily
from the direction of the kitchen, barelegged
and wearing a shapeless felt hat; a little
girl in a white frock and wide summer
hat raced after him. Each had a large piece
of bread spread with jam. He led the way,
shouting; then, as if recollecting himself, he
came back to take her hand, and so guided
her through the gate, which he closed. After
that there was a joyous scamper through the
short brown grass towards the next gate,
the boy leading, the girl following withour
hesitation, but with head back and one arm
stretched out ahead, her blue sash streaming
behind, her brown hair flying. At the second
gate they drew together as for a consulta-
tion, and the man on the verandah watched
them. The girl was six, the boy just turned
twelve. He took her hand and began slowly
to tap with his finger-tips into her palm.
She bent forward to take the message, her
lips parted with eagerness, her whole atten-
tion in the touch of his fingers, her grey eyes
wide but unseeing. Excitedly she tapped
back into his hand, and they were off down
the slope towards the creek, the boy now*
holding and guiding her. As they, disap-
peared old Mark Allen felt for his pipe and
went inside.
In the very beginning young Peter Foyle
had a vague idea, picked up he had forgotten
where, that one could talk with the fingers.
Shyly when the two were alone he would
put into her hands a doll, a fork, a flower,
and then tap the name into her hand. At
first it all puzzled little Dorothy, but on the
day she suddenly realised that the tap-
ping meant something, that each kind of
tapping meant a different thing, a new world
was opened to her, a way out of her prison
into a world of excitement and ever-chang-
ing wonder. As soon as she had grasped
that, her progress was rapid and joyous;
young Peter gradually took possession of her.
It was a boyish system of his own, parr
play and part earnest; simple, crude, but
sufficing for them, and understood. Delight-
cdly they would tap again and again—“doll,”
“hand,” “Peter,” “Dorry,” “flower” and
later “come,” “run,” “the big trees,” “we
will go home.” It grew daily with their
enlarging vocabulary; a strange system
known only to themselves, and with their
new necessities it passed from words into
sentences.
Down by the creek among the tall gums
young Peter explained the trees, the flowers,
itlie water, the wind, the living,things about
them. She wanted to feel everything, to tap
out everything she felt. She had her own
governess at home, a highly-trained and
patient woman, but she was happiest with
the boy. She came to depend upon him.
And so as the years passed over on broad
Murraroo they grew up together, and old
Mark Allen, who had cursed the experts,
thanked God for Peter Foyle. As he grew
into a leggy youth with thoughtful, brown
eyes, he worked on the station, but it
was tacitly understood that he was to be
always available for Dorothy. Once they
were out at the big white gate there was
usually the same formula between them, the
light, quick tapping of finger-tips which asked
and answered.
“What shall we do?”
“Let’s go down to the big trees.”
Dorothy loved the big trees along the
creek. Even in her great isolation she could
feel their presence. She would stand with
her lithe body pressed to a great bole, her
bare arms about it, feeling the vibration as
the wind stirred the mighty branches over-
head ; till suddenly, terrified, she would reach
out for Peter and the comfort of his presence.
In her teens she had grown into a tall
and graceful girl, wistful and alluring, with
wide, grey eyes, beautiful but unlit by the
living thoughts behind them. And with the
imminence of womanhood upon her came
new feelings, new thoughts and emotions
which vaguely troubled her; an awakening
strange and sweet and mysterious. She was
insatiable for life, for knowledge. She asked
endless questions of him frankly, innocently.
She saw life and the world through Peter’s
eyes, and it was Peter’s world she saw.
Down' at the old spot among the big trees
he tapped back his answers, patiently, rever-
ently; but the ugly things of life he never
told her.
One sultry summer evening old Mark
Allen, sitting on the cool verandah facing
the little cemetery enclosure away to the
west, failed to respond to the dinner-gong,
and they found him dead in his chair. Then
everything was changed at Murraroo. An
aunt appeared from Melbourne and took
charge of things. Old Mark was laid beside
his wife under the shadow of the great white
angel. Ilis will was read; his fortune was
left entirely to his daughter Dorothy, It
was Peter who had to tell her all the start-
ling changes—that Murraroo was to be sold;
that her aunt was taking her away to rela-
tives in Europe, and to see a great London
specialist; that she was now rich; that their
own little world was shattered and at an end.
There came the last afternoon of all, when
the two Avent out together as far as the
tall white gate. She could not see the suffer-
ing in his eyes, but she felt his firm brown
hand trembling as he took her soft white
one and tapped a message into her palm:
“What shall we do?”
“Let’s go down to the big trees.”
They knew this was the last of all their
meetings dowm among the big trees. Some-
thing personal and wonderful had grown up
between these two who
were now no longer child-
ren ; something more than
a mere intimacy of mind
—a sweet understanding
that did not need to be
xpressed. His long wak-
ing dreams as he lay
♦sleepless at night with a
new unrest; her long day-
dreams, beautiful and dis-
turbing, of this new Peter,
Peter the man, the only
man she knew —this was
to be the end of them all.
The girl began to sob con-
vulsively, and groped for
his hand. And Peter told
her into her hand that he,
too, was going away from
Murraroo, that he would
not be able to stand the
place now, the creekside,
the empty days, the old
spot among the big trees.
Dorothy and her aunt
sailed, accompanied by
the governess as com-
panion. To the girl the
vessel was a terrifying
new world, a world of
incomprehensible movement and vibration
which left her lost. Sometimes forget-
ting, she would patter eager questions
into her aunt’s hand in the old code, and
her aunt, touched but helpless, could only
stroke the girl’s hand in return. True, she
could talk with her old governess by another
system; and she had her bulky leather-bound
books Qf Braille to read in quiet deck cor-
ners, or at night when she lay sleepless in
the dark. But there were so many things
to ask; she missed Peter. The old isolation
was closing in upon her again like walls.
They were not a month in England before
the London specialists disillusioned them of
their high hopes. Aurists, oculists, neural
experts explained that the' patient had sus-
tained a severe emotional shock resulting in
oligfemia and a temporary but complete ex-
haustion of certain brain cells. Was there
not any hope? Well, there was no medical
treatment; the trouble was psychical. _ There
was no organic hurt, there was no disease;
but there was a derangement. It was an
abnormal condition which sometimes re-
adjusted itself. And of all this they under-
stood one thing—that here science was help-
less.
In the years that followed they travelled
(Continued on page 53.)


“first
thing
every
mornin
m
\\
m'4 fi| 8 ji '//,
S a, , ' 4’
>* ; v . -# ggß§gBs|>'
U\'
d
For generations the practice of taking
Eno’s “Fruit Salt” first thing every morn-
ing has been the golden rule of healthy
living among sensible people.
Eno helps your system, in Nature’s
own way, to free itself regularly of its
daily waste, and sees to it that your
blood-stream is always clean and
vigorous. Leads to a fuller enjoy-
ment of every minute of your daily life.
And Eno does its work so pleasantly.
The idea that only unpleasant purga-
tive mineral salts can be good for you
has long been exploded. In this climate
nothing can really take the place of
Eno with its beneficial effect upon the
whole system.
In two sizes at Chemisti and Stores.
PREPARED ONLY BY J. C. ENO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sales cs7gen is : THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE * CO. LTD. SYDNEY, N. S. W.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
FOR YOUR NEXT PARTY, PICNIC,
OR SUPPER INTRODUCE
CAPTAIN CRAB
AND SEE THE SMILING WELCOME
HE RECEIVES
FOR further farticuvare ark tour CROCER
rOR RECtFE-ROOK
TLhe
New Zealand's
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion” is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. POX 1481. WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
Nervy?
Irritable ? Dizzy ?
Soon get Tired ?
Do things get on your nerves so you can
hardly keep going? That’s bad! Try Cream
of Yeast! Feel your poor frayed nerves
calm up like magic; feel strength and
energy return. In a few minutes —it’s like
lightning. Now then, make the decision!
Decide to have done with _ headaches,
“nerves,” and run-down conditions. Get
back your old-time pep and sparkle with
Cream of Yeast. This fine pick-me-up costs
very little at any chemist’s, but you must
insist on having genuine Cream of Yeast,
as brewers’ yeast is far too slow.
1
ďf
Smooth running Time
The name Elgin typifies the pinnacle of
achievement in the world of watches. Elgin
watches are renowned alike for their rich,
lustrous finish and fidelity of workmanship,
which ensures Elgin smooth-running time.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
&lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
yAir Jrade Mark
in the Watch Care
For backward children .
Food
Beg. Trade jubk,
There is nothing better
than Benger’s Food for
backward children. A cup-
ful between meals, and at
bed-time, provides just
what is wanted.
Send for Benger’s Booklet, post free ,
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,
ISO, George Street, SYDNEY.
"THE AGE”
Established 185 b
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS! —
It' your sales in Victoria have not reached
the high level which the quality and price of
your products demand, include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By this
means your sales message will enter the homes
and offices of
123,533
daily subscribers
who have confidence in the publication which
for 74 years has been the BUSINESS BUILDER
that discriminate advertisers have long
esteemed and valued.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Advertising Rates on application to the princi-
pal Service Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.


to introduce
AuMyStvop
Shaving Cream
For a limited period only
-4
>7
a
il
Jbtyfifc/otlu?
f&oJufouM Offlefam
ifauA d&aJlekf knucfow,
“ Valet” Auto Strop
Razor, the razor
which possesses the
simplest and most
effective self-strop-
ping device ever
invented for sharp-
ening a razor blade.
A genuine “ Valet ”
strop.
Genuine “ Valet ”
blade completes the
outfit. The whole
in strong and service-
able case.
3'-
QJULflrituA
ThoJcjt
There’s “life” in this
carefully perfected
Auto Strop Shaving
Cream. Its lather is
spontaneous, sooth-
ing and safe. Made
by the “ Valet ”
people, whose only
object is to give the
best blade its best
possible chance.
The same size of
tube as the more
expensive creams.
fe
THE I
WHOUTCOMPUETE
79
BOUGHT TODAY?
TO MORROW MAY
BE TOO LATE!!
FOR
IF
Managing Agents for Australia: PHIPSON ft Co.. Ltd., 181 Clarence St., Sydney
Keep your liver healthy,
Banish stomach ills,
Sick headache & biliousness
By taking
ď
fd
TWO AT NIGHT
PUT YOU RIGHT
More than half the ills of mankind
spring from a disordered liver. A
sluggish liver causes constipation,
ruins the digestion, weakens the nerves,
dulls the mind and deprives you of
bodily vigour. If you are tired and
depressed just try Cockle’s Pills and
see what an amazing improvement
follows their wonderful tonic action
upon the liver. Get a box to.-day
without fail.
Small pill, easily taken. Of all chemists
and stores 1/6 a box.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., LTD., LONDON.
much about Europe, usually idly and for
pleasure, following the summer to the south
of France, visiting in their seasons the
fashionable watering-places of the Continent.
To the habitues of these places they became
a well-known trio; and as they passed, people
would whisper and turn to look again at
the tall girl wmlking between the two elderly
ladies. It seemed incredible that this splen-
did girl, beautiful, wealthy, young, should
be cut off so completely from all this music
and gaiety, that she should be more unfor-
tunate than the ragged gamins rolling and
shrieking joyously in the gutter.
Sometimes a new rumor of a great name
and great cures sent them off again at short
notice, cancelling all other arrangements —
to Poignaud in Paris, to Friesbrecht in Ber-
lin, to the celebrated Von Kessler in Vienna,
the young psycho-analysis rechercheur whose
work was showing startling results. But the
issue w-as always the same. They were told
that this anomalous result of acute shock was
beyond the skill of science ; that sometimes
the condition righted itself; that there was
nothing to hope for unless a miracle hap-
pened.
And then, suddenly, unexpectedly, com-
pletely, the miracle did happen.
It was on the run across from Naples
to Cannes. The baud was playing on deck,
the bright rim of the new moon was stand-
ing gloriously over the dark mountains of
Corsica, and Dorothy, remote from all this
in the limited enclosure of her ovsjn thoughts,
walked the deck with a sympathetic American
woman tourist. Dorothy had felt her hands
and face, and had liked her. The two moved
about slowly, but the American failed to
realise the incredible limitations of this smil-
ing and handsome girl. Dorothy, used to
the more careful guidance of her own people,
stepped over the opening of the companion-
way. She screamed as she fell.
The band stopped abruptly. There was a
rush from all directions, and the news spread
in whispers from mouth to mouth. They car-
ried her up on deck and away to her deck
cabin, a limp figure with a little blood
across her face. It might have been worse,
they said; a comminuted fracture of the
right leg, but otherwise no serious hurt;
she was unconscious, but a doctor said there
was nothing to fear, except perhaps the
effects of shock.
An hour later Dorothy slowly came back
to a new consciousness like one who wakes
at last from oppressive dreams. The shadowy
cabin was unlit, but straight before her she
saw the round opening of a porthole with
two clear distant stars. To the side loomed
dimly the white second bed, with brass rails
that caught the light. Confused, wonderful
sounds reached her from outside —the swish
of waves, a distant laugh, the tinkling of a
piano in the saloon, the loud clang of a bell,
and then, near at hand, the whispering of
her aunt.
She sat up and began to sob and babble.
Late that night there was a crowd of eager
passengers outside the cabin door, inquiring,
discussing, laughing, commenting. And the
ship’s wireless operator was sending out mes-
sages which next morning were to be printed
in the newspapers of all Europe.
After that things were easy, and life was
wonderful. _ Dorothy had to learn from the
beginning like a child, and she brought all
a child’s fresh-hearted enthusiasm to the
learning. Hers was indeed a unique lot:
to be able to enter the great world with a
mind already mature. And always she found
herself wondering if life was as sweet and
good as Peter had put into her hand, down
there among the big trees.
Before the first year had passed she found
that all her preconceptions of men and of
love had to be modified and rearranged; and
she knew that Peter had taught her none of
the ugliness of life, nothing of the unclean
and sordid, the coarse, the sinister, the
humiliating. The three travelled as before,
and she naturally attracted suitors. Her
experiences left her terrified, confused, at
war with herself and her own emotions, for
she still saw these things through Peter's
eyes. Everything she felt, each new experi-
ence and emotion, was gauged by Peter and
Peter’s ideal; and the awakening distressed her.
A new thought began to trouble her: What
would happen if now she did fall in love?
Once, after an encounter on a boat with
a light adventurer, which left her bewildered
and disillusioned and shamed, she cried
quietly in her dark corner of the deck, and
that moment she almost wished she was back
again in the old darkness with Peter and
her dreams.
And now, after almost ten years’ absence,
Dorothy was voyaging homewards once more.
Her aunt had long returned, and the girl
had at last obeyed an impulse to see Aus-
tralia again. She felt starved for some-
thing she had lost, something that belonged
to the far past.
Some Queenslanders on board had become
attached to her, and she promised to visit
them in Brisbane. Two months after she
landed in Melbourne she went north to honor
this undertaking.
“Where’s your engagement ring?” Joan,
her friend, demanded on the very first even-
ing. “What, not even yet? I call it simply
wicked, Dock. You're afraid of love, that’s
what it is! Well, mummy and I have de-
signs, so that’s straight. We are giving a
party for you at the end of the week, and
we’re asking all the eligible bachelors we
know!”
Dorothy laughed gaily, but when she was
alone at last there came the old fear, more
persistent of late: what if love really did
come to her? How could she abandon all
that the past held and meant —like a mother
who would abandon her child? How could
she ever give to any other man what only
Peter Foyle had awakened within her? She
felt bound to Peter —Petei*, the station-hand,
barred by every barrier of social caste even
here in this democratic land. Yet if love came
for another man, if passion came? How
could it be other than a shameful thing—-
something belonging rightly to Peter. She
dreaded the thought of love.
Nevertheless within that week love and the
man came. Within that w r eck she suspected,
feared, knew. Surely this was love, enchant-
ing, troubling—not admitted, not welcomed,
even resisted; but love.
She had met him on the night of the
party, when Mrs. Donnithorne had brought
him to her:
“Dock, I want to introduce you to a
special friend of ours. Miss Dorothy Allen
—Mr. Harrison. Now I’ll leave two charm-
ing people to entertain each other.”
That was no more than a week ago, and
now here were uncertainty and strange sweet-
ness and self-reproach which she could not
unravel; a new joy that was not peace,
and happiness that was half unrest.
He was so different from the rest, a man
a little beyond 30, with clean and steady
eyes; junior partner in the law firm of
Haigh, Dale and Harrison. She had been
drawn to him from the first; was interested,
and then more deeply stirred.
He came again, and the two were brought
more and more together. They began to
see . each other often ; they went to dances,
to theatres; and when at the house he
loved to draw her away to himself. The
grounds of the Donnithornes’ home ran down
to the river’s edge, where the tall iron-
barks and bloodwoods had been left intact;
and down there Dorothy and her lover
often wandered. It always recalled to
her the creek and the big trees on old Mur-
raroo. It was a kind of sweet coincidence,
but at the same time she had always a vague
sense of guilt, of disloyalty and betrayal.
When she escaped to her room at night from
Joan’s teasing, there was always a reaction.
The old past and its influence then re-
asserted itself. Did she or should she love
him—like that; or was this a fickle, mean
new love of licrs, a thing selfish and ignoble?
She did love him, she knew; but to displace
Peter, to dismiss and set him aside! She
was torn between two loyalties. True, she
had told him of that other (for he knew
her history) ; she had tried to convey to him,
haltingly, with hardly any hope of being
understood, that she felt herself already
bound. But this beloved interloper had
laughed at that, and seemed quite willing to
brush aside that shadowy claimant, and to
take his place.
In a flurry of doubt and self-reproach
Dorothy suddenly resolved to end it all by
going away before he spoke-—and all knew
that he was about to speak.
. “But you can’t run away from love,”
Joan decided sententiouslyt
“You can’t run away from life, my dear,”
smiled Mrs. Donnithorne. “At least give the
poor man the opportunity of saying good-bye ;
don’t you feel you owe him that much,
Dock?”
They rang him up to come the following
evening; and Dorothy went up to bed.
To bed, but not to sleep. Deliberately
now she set herself to analyse her feelings,
to examine her inmost thoughts and to
settle this thing. Did she love him? God
help her, yes, she loved him. But the dim
figure of Peter Foyle who had filled her life
before, who had been all in all to her, rose
to reproach and trouble her, Peter Foyle
who had given her all, taught her and
awakened this love in her —now somewhere
in the back country, working on some wes-
tern station, forbidden and debarred!
But now that she was alone with her
thoughts she knew inevitably that it must
always be Peter Foyle. Anything else
would be treachery to herself and to him;
it would be ingratitude, betrayal. And
Harrison? Yes, she wanted him, she loved
him. But what a broken gift her love was!
He aroused her, he took her by storm, he
swept her off her feet'. Yes, she was loyal to
her own Peter; but Harrison created in her
emotions which before only Peter could
create. She did want him, body as well
as soul she wanted him, and at that she
blushed in the darkness. Surely this great
love of hers was legitimate? But no; it
would be like bartering to another what
belonged to the Peter of her dreams. Torn
this way and that, she felt shamed.
He came the next evening, and the Donni-
thornes saw that presently the two were
left to themselves. They moved out into
the garden without speaking. The level
river below them lay full of stars; and the
great gums were whispering. The piano
tinkling behind them, the lights from the
windows—all seemed strangely remote from
them and their world. He spoke at last,
taking her hands.
“Dorothy,” he said, “I think I’ve loved
you from the first time I ever saw you. I
offer you all my love. Will yon marry me?”
The temptation then was almost too great
for her, but she put it aside and rose. She
began to tell him of the war in her soul.
She spoke hurriedly, disconnectedly, with a
sob in her voice. No, no; there was that
other; there would always be her other love.
No, no, no; she felt that she could not, must
not marry him.
“Tell me only this,” he whispered. “Do
you love me, Dorothy?”
Then unexpectedly she burst into tears.
“I do, I do,” she sobbed. “I do love you,
I do want you. But it does not seem right;
it is dishonorable of me—l could never re-
spect myself again! Oh won’t you try to
understand?”
In her agitation she fumbled for his hand
in the darkness, and in the old way, born
of long habit, began to tap into the palm:
“Oh, what shall we do?”
He took hers. Her lips parted, her body
stiffened. For into her hand his fingers were
tapping back:
“Let’s go down to the hig trees”
An hour later when they returned to the
house she knew all there was to know, and
there was no great deal that mattered.
Peter’s mother had married, and Peter had
taken his step-father’s name.
A Place of Trees.
’Tis a winsome day,
And a wind that varies,
Blowing high and low
Through the golden glow
And the shadows cool,
Makes the leaves and (lowers
Dance like fairies.
Never was such light
On the old earth squandered
As from overhead
On the grass is shed;
Never man before
Into scene so fair
Bewildered wandered.
Peace —the peace I feel—
Gold could never buy me,
As I lie at ease
In this place of trees,
Winds now high, now low,
Making sylvan song,
Birds and flowers nigh me.
N.B.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


W. JNO. BAKER
Christmas Gifts
AT
THE HOUSE OF STEEL
Wmmm
No. 12. —Lady’s Folding Manicure
Set, with Xylonite fittings, 35/-
each. Or with Pearl and Pearloid
fittings, 45/- complete. Post Free.
f
d
fď
đf
No. 18. —Complete Folding Manicure
Set, with Xylonite fittings, 63/-
complete. Post Free.
Initials Stamped on Cases, 1/6.
Post Free jor Cash with Order.
W. Jno. Baker
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE . . . . 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
GARTH
TO
S
Accurate tools make sure the edifice:
or a temporary dwelling a tent
will serve. But when one choo-
ses a residence for life one
demands a structure that will
last, that will withstand the elements.
A structure whose dependability is
matched by its beauty.
A watch is also to be chosen for
life. It is not a thing to be cast aside
after a short while. Thus it is that one
chooses ultimately an Omega Watch.
An Omega Watch means exact time
for life and all the benefits that exact
time brings. It lasts, it withstands hard
service. And its durability is matched
by beauty of design and finish.
One Omega Watch outlasts many
others. It is chosen for life by those
who know the value of a well ordered
existence.
©mm,
” Exact time for life”
d
Under Instructions from, the Commissioners of the Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
IMPORTANT SALE by PUBLIC AUCTION on NOVEMBER 23 NEXT
THE PRESENT HEAD OFFICE OF THE GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
N.S.W., Nos. 19-23 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
PRESENTING AN OPPORTUNITY TO BANKING AND INSURANCE INSTI-
TUTIONS, INVESTORS, TRUSTEES AND OTHERS of acquiring one of the most
IMPORTANT AND PROMINENT SITES in the Hub of the CITY’S FINANCIAL
AND PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES, with Marvellous Possibilities and Prospective
Outlook.
The EXTENSION OF MARTIN PLACE to MACQUARIE STREET, and the
rebuilding on the western side and WIDENING OF ELIZABETH STREET, and the
fact that these improvements will direct the traffic from St. .Tames Station to this
part of the City, will make it ONE OF THE MAIN THOROUGHFARES in the
HEART OF THE FINANCIAL CENTRE of the City, and obviously assure a greatly
added value to properties coming within its influence.
THE BUILDING
is imposing in appearance, built of brick, with stone facings, on stone foundations,
with flat roof, and contains:—
BASEMENT, with Three Strong Rooms; Special Book Lift from one Strongroom
to the Banking Chamber.
GROUND FLOOR, comprising Banking Chamber with Vestibule; Gallery Floor, and
Manager's Office.
THE FIVE UPPER FLOORS are occupied by the various Departments of the Bank.
Caretaker’s quarters on the roof. Electric Passenger Lift and Fire Escape.
A Feature is the NORTHERLY ASPECT and PERFECT NATURAL LIGHT.
THE LAND
has a frontage of 90 FEET to MARTIN PLACE, by a depth of 66ft. 7|in. on one
side, and 68ft. 9Mn. on the other, the rear line being 88ft. 5in.
TITLE TORRENS.
SPECIAL EASY TERMS IF REQUIRED, VIZ.:—
£5000 on Signing the Contract. An additional £10,000 on completion of Transfer.
The Balance secured by mortgage over the property for a period of 15 years, at 6 per cent., reducible
by half-yearly payments of £2500 for 10 years, the balance then remaining to be repayable the
end of the period.
Purchaser to have the right to pay any additional amount of principal, or the whole, by giving
three months’ notice. OR CASH ON COMPLETION.
SPECIAL ATTENTION is invited to this MOST IMPORTANT SUBMISSION.
VACANT POSSESSION WILL BE GIVEN.
RICHARDSON & WRENCH, LTD., 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
GRAY & CO., 135 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AUCTIONEERS IN CONJUNCTION,
Have been favored with instructions to submit the above IMPORTANT CITY FREE-
HOLD for PUBLIC AUCTION, in the Rooms,
92 Pitt Street, Sydney, on Friday, 23rd November Next, at 11 a.m. Prompt.
Plans of the Building on view in the Rooms of Associated Auctioneers.
I
Dainty White China ♦
White China-Real White-is once again much in vogue, and
a breakfast or tea set of the famous “Shelley” Dainty White
China is a present that is sure to please, and which could
live at peace with any surroundings. It is not expensive,
and includes attractive odd things like cress dishes, covered
muffin dishes, fruit bowls, fruit saucers and honey pots.
Ask. to see the latest Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Dainty White China,
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel Lucie Attwell and Hilda Cowham,
Shelley Domestic Ware, and Shelley Jelly Moulds—all British. In case
of any difficulty in obtaining write to: — T. W. HEATH
& CO., LTD., 2)z CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
CHINA


A wonderful
bodu builder
ďf
is always*
fresh & pure
*
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
K 32.
CHEESE AT ITS VERY BEST!
Mellow, delicious and appetising Kraft Cheese meets
with everyone’s approval. Kraft Cheese is absolutely
pure and particularly wholesome.
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
d
ďfd
Bold by weight
or in lib. cay tons
by all grocers
and storekeepers.
AH the good qualities of cheese—Vitamins,
Mineral Salts and Proteins—are retained in
Kraft Cheese, which keeps fresh, wrapped in
tinfoil, until you eat it.
Kraft Cheese is made. in Australia by Kraft Walker Cheese Co.
Pty., Ltd., Riverside Av enue, Melbourne, Victoria.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
*
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
Otatare.
I ID SETT A MORELL TELLS ANOTHER TALE OF TAHITI,
FULL OF COLOR AND ROMANCE.
I HAD been a week in Papeete when the
languor induced by its turbulent climate
persuaded me, a willing lotus-eater, to
breakfast in bed. The morning after giving
my order I awoke to find two eyes in an
apple-brown face staring at me over the
counterpane, and sleepily I recognised Poia,
a serving maid at the Tiare.
“Awe/ At las’ you kick your eye! See, I
bring dis!” And she thrust a heavy weight
across my knees —a tray laden with color
and flavor pleasing to both eye and palate:
the early “first breakfast” consisting of
coffee, paw-paws, oranges, bananas and alli-
gator pears; the last shipped south from
the West Indies. I fell-to with zest, and
was only recalled to her presence by Poia
asking with heat: “Why you keep him
shut?”
She had wandered to the open window,
where hung a gilded cage and, full in the free
sunlight, preening its wings, the prisoner,
captured and presented to me by a guest in
the hotel.
It was an otatare, the Tahitian nightin-
gale, to be found now only amongst the dense
forest of the upper valleys, hunted there
by that pest introduced by the Chinese, the
mina bird.
“We mean to have a large aviary built for
it—a very large one, where it can fly,” I
said, and felt I was making an apology.
“He feel something crazee, shut! Turri-
bil!”
Surprised at her imaginative understand-
ing and in an effort to draw her, I expostu-
lated : “But it is happy; it sings!”
“Sing!” Her laugh was bitter. “All
same lion roar in zoo-house. If dat bird
not vava, ’im tell you how him made hurt!”
She laid an expressive hand to her heart.
“I know dis!”
I observed her closely. She was still
young—about twenty-five—and should have
looked lovely, for her body, moulded for
strength, was graceful, and the sculpture
of her face very good. Only her expression
was vaguely terrifying: she seemed drawn
into herself, withheld, sealed: consumed be-
neath a strong repression. I had noticed
her in the dining-room, among the merry
group of serving girls—disgruntled, one apart,
morose and frustrated. Now for the first
time she showed animation. Indeed, a wild
passion of feeling had welled up in her ; and
seeing her so aroused, I realised that her
condition was the result of some unhappy
crisis; and her instant and sensitive sym-
pathy for the bird argued an instinctive
love of life and freedom.
Again she was speaking.
“See!”
With a desperate gesture she withdrew 7
from her bosom a pad—a bundle of rags—
and, slipping her mother-hubbard from her
shoulders, revealed her strong body. Pre-
pared by instinct for shock, for some touch
of tragedy, I w 7 as careful not to turn away
my eyes, and yet to continue smiling, though
at what I saw I felt the muscles round
my mouth stiffen.
One side of her bosom was maimed and
rucked, and across its hollowed blight flamed
a monster scar, veined w r ith scarlet stitches.
Urgently she explained :
“I fall over ’orse; inak’ ac’dent. Doctor
’im cut,” she choked. “I ’shamed Afa see
dis. Afa him see, an’ say. ‘Pooli! How
you nurse baby?’ Him no more kiss. I
wait an’ wait. But no; my life he finish
I tink. What to do? All time I jus’
like bird, dat crazee way. To-night I wait
Afa las’ time. After dat I jus’ tink to die.”
I knew now why she had seemed to me
as one aloof from the medley, the flow
of life; she had indeed stood apart—stood
apart and brooded on love as all the unloved
ones must do. There was a hint of frenzy
in her eyes. Yes, she would “stop” did she so
will it. I had heard doctors aver that no
medical skill whatever could keep life run-
ning once a native decides to die. Indeed,
it was as though already Poia had died at
the core and death was slowly penetrating
to the surface. I felt unhappy that one so
young and handsome should not be living
freely and wholly as her nature dictated.
A stretch of lonelinesss between lover
and lover had taught me the horror of being
without love, so that ever .afterwards I
wanted to help each one to its mate. Love-
liness without love! Above all, youth with-
out love! It was a thought to hurt.
I resolved to have a finger in her fate;
to play God for a little, till I had vanquished
the devils at work on Poia’s destiny. With a
touch of mystery so dear to the native mind
I assured her that everything would be well.
She had donned her mother-hubbard, and,
with hand on the pad of rags over her empty
breast, asked: “You give me bac’ dis?”
I shook my head. “No,” I said; “but I
give you Afa !” Her strained eyes stared at
me misbelievingly.
Then her gaze wandered to the otatare.
“An’ w’at you give ’im? ’lm all same me.”
Before I could reply she was hailed from
downstairs and moved automatically and
heavily away, through the brilliant scarlet
pareus at the doorway.
Idly I arose, bathed, dressed, had lunch
and a nap. It must have been one o’clock
before I donned a sun-hat, woven of green
bamboo fibre, and set forth to ravel the
tangled skein of Poia’s destiny.
The streets, which knew no plan, were
drenched in sunlight. Sun that teemed from
a bland, blue sky and splashed on the grey
and red roofs of cabins peeping through their
wrappings of flowers and foliage; on the
brave colors of the passers-by; on the shops
which were re-opening for the afternoon ; on
their tawny keepers standing in the door-
ways, smiling up the streets. Few merchants
bothered to hang signs before their stores;
business, like all else in the island, was
haphazard.
Threading through the buzzing, brilliant
throng, I passed the vendors,, of ice-cream,
sweets and heis. With a bag of roasted
goobers bought from the Chinese peanut
pedlar, I mounted a phaeton, drawn by Cali-
fornian bronchos, and was driven out to the
Pointe de Marae through the scattered vil-
lages with their few Chinese stores and
straw huts and stalwart stone signposts.
The grotto of Marae is a pond of sinister
dark waters, like a large black opal in a
setting of massive rock, which, rearing gid-
dily high, is festooned with moss and foli-
age. Long ago this grotto was dedicated to
the gods, and made a refuge for conquered
warriors.
Here I alighted to await Afa, beneath the
verdant tent of a mighty breadfruit-tree, a
hundred feet tall, with shiny indented leaves
as large as umbrellas, and as cool.
At last he came, a barbaric figure, swing
ing down the track, singing as he strode; his
movements flowing into each other with the
grace, the liquid precision of the dancer;
his giant burnt body naked save for a tur-
quoise breech-clout, a pareu of tapa cloth
beaten from tree bark; his great toe fan
tastically gnarled through climbing the palms.
Across one shoulder was slung a mighty
bamboo, from which dangled seven bunches
of the fruit, each red banana upright on its
branch, a foot in length and three or four
inches in diameter. To-morrow the hand-
some burden would be shipped nine miles
away to Moorea, on a sloop which I had
seen that morning swinging on her moor-
ings near the coral embankment.
“Ia ora na!” I greeted him.
lie stood before me, a smiling Polynesian
Adonis, beneath a weight which would have
crumpled up a white athlete.
At the sight of that naive face any fear
of being doubted dispersed; facts and myth-
ology were so interwoven as to be undistin-
guishable to that superstitious intelligence.
Besides, was I not a papaa, and what might
not one of those mysterious foreigners see
and hear ?
“You know about Poia?” I began.
“Olalala!” He rolled his tongue and eyes.
I then related my fairy-tale. It told how
Tupapau, the Polynesian demon, had made
union with a goddess fair beyond mortal
who, however, lacked a female’s breasts, so
that, after giving birth to a new demon,
she could not nourish her offspring. In
despair she had searched the island for its
most beautiful woman, and, her choice fall-
ing on Poia, she had besought her lover to
make the desired exchange; whereupon the
father’s magic being exercised, the demon
infant throve lustily.
“But Poia say doctor cut him !”
I agreed. “That is what Poia thinks.
Tupapau made her think so. This happened
to her because she is the most beautiful girl
in the island.”
“Am! ver’ bes’dn Tahiti.”
“I told you because I know you and Poia
love each other.”
“By cripe, yais, dam’ goo’ J” His black
eyes blazed rapaciously, masculine vanity
flattered at possessing so distinguished a
vahine. “I meet Poia to-night,” lie said.
I had gained my desired effect.
As I drove away I saw him in excited
speech with a brother feis hunter, and won-
dered what personal twist he was giving my
myth. In Tahiti a tale once heard never
remained the same.
Dusk had fallen before I got back to the
capital, but there a radiant scene leapt to
the eye. With the close of day the Tahitians
had thrown off their pretence of work. The
cinemas, prize-fights and pavilion were
already magnets of light; the Mairic had
blossomed into a garden of bright gowns;
jazzers were assembling on the beach and
in the pavilion, or filling the excursion auto-
mobiles, intent on pleasure-seeking at Pa’a,
where the tango, the maxixe and the hula
would flourish till dawn.
Already very late for dinner, I yet could
not resist the impulse to lose myself a little
in the life of these volatile, ardent brown
people, and, deciding to walk back, alighted
some distance from my hotel.
By a kiosk lounged a French administrator,
laughing with two girls, one of whom held
her glass to his lips and patted his spine
as though to assist the sparkling liquor on
its journey. Naval lieutenants, planters and
officials passed, flirting with the 'easy girls,
pinching their cheeks, snatching their flowers
or making play at driving them by their long
plaits.
These simple, smiling girls used terrible
words, innocent as to their meaning. They
had learnt their English from the visiting
sailors and the cosmopolitan riff-raff round
the water-front and were oftentimes be-
wildered by the reception given to their
proudly exhibited vocabularies. Every caste
of Polynesian, from half to twentieth, was
bent on pleasure; all found it easy and
natural to be merry. Kisses and laughters
were free and gaily exchanged in the streets;
brown hands of girls fondled trousered knees
or patted the heads and shoulders of won-
dering tourists.
From under the acacia and mango trees,
by the side of the avenues, came the titter
and banter of lovers. By the water and in
the cool glooms of the wayside bushes,
dryads, wreathed and scented, lay smoking,
or plaintively crooning a himene to the soft
accompaniment of a guitar. So may a vahine
wait for hours for him who had promised to
come, and be joyous and uncomplaining
when, at long last, the beloved arm parts
the leaves and the glib tongue explains
sweetly. Behind a screen of fern and
bracken the hula beauties quivered and
writhed in the exciting contortions of the
upaupa, till, exhausted and near naked, they
fell to the ground as others hastened to take
their place in the dance. Afar off could
be heard the harsh cries of girls dancing in
the (Jocoanut House.
In the doorway of my hotel I met Poia
coming out. She was wearing her best
mother-hubbard and had rubbed orange peel
on her unconfined hair, and crowned it
with a litis of fresh ilowers; juice of the
hinano blossom, massaged into her skin, made
her body as fragrant as a flower and as
seductive. She looked dully at me.
I hailed her gaily: "Maitui, I'oia, bravo !
You go to meet Afa?”
The passionate frenzy of the morning sub-
sided, her spirit had lapsed again beneath
a mask of dead calm. But. at my words a
spasm passed over her, so that, in contrast
to her tortured expression, her gala attire
appeared suddenly pathetic.
“I go meet Afa. I don’ know if him meet
me.”
As I entered my room I thought I heard
a warble, but as I approached its cage, the
otatare grew silent, drawing its wings
tightly about it, like a shield over its son)g.
I awoke at dawn, dressed quickly and.
fortified with four sous of taojc tan and a
French roll procured at Shin Bung Lung’s
coffee-stall, hastened to the market place.
About the side-walk, on the street-level
verandahs, in shop doorways, in carriages,
on the quays and decks of schooners, dark
bodies lay, lax and graceful, in sleep. These
were potential shoppers in from Haapape ajid
the nearer districts. The discomforts -of
their resting place worried them not at all,
and many had possessions by their sides,
umvatched; but there are no thieves in
Tahiti, land of plenty. When the police bell
rang and the Marche was announced officially
open, these peaceful slumberers would collect
their bundles and arise, refreshed and eager,
to do their bartering.
It was Sunday and the Marche wore its
most flagrantly holiday air. Outside were
automobiles, carts and every variety of car-
riage. But inside —such a blaze of color,
such a riot of extremes, such a noise of
babbling and chattering as though one had
entered a cageful of monkeys!
On the pave hordes of vendors squatted
on bright mats, their vivid wares spread opt
before them like so many giant fans. All
the vendors were women, and all were smok-
ing and merry-making. Buyers clustered
round, discussing values, tasting-goods, ges-
ticulating ; then broke away from the main
tide to stand laughing and flirting in an
aimless happiness.
Pareus, of every shade, stamped with de-
signs made by William Morris; bamboo
fibre, materials for the fashioning of hats;
stuffs and fabrics —these made a bold display.
In a shed were offered for sale meat, greens
and many sauces, the popular mitihue, the
piquant taiaro , conveniently sold in long
slender bamboo phials, sealed with a pan-
danus-leaf; large green breadfruit; tama-
rinds, sapadillos, acachous, paw-paws, and
many another strange fruit. And arranged
for delectation the most beautiful, and ex-
traordinary fish in the world. Little fish,
big fish; every combination of shades and
every extreme of contour. Vermilion and
gold, bice, with whorls of scarlet; chocolate,
electric, cinnamon, slate-purple, bronze,
ivory and ebony; fish with bars and fish
with stripes; spots and dashes of rainbow
radiancy. Sea centipedes, squid, crawfish,
crabs; the narrof fish, with its feathery tail
and beak; the terrifying dovijfish; and that
sweet delicacy, the porcupine fish..
Fascinated by the picture, I lingered till
hunger became insistent and I turned back
towards my hotel.
Near the door I again saw Poia; this time
she was about to enter. It needed but a
glance to see she bad just left Afa. Her
tautness had relaxed; she moved pridefully.
with a swimming movement of the torso.
The transformation was unbelievable.
My breakfast momentarily postponed, I
went and stood by the cage of the otatare.
Its eyes star-points of unblinking light, the
bird observed me: coldly suspicious of the
unknown, since the known hurt so.
Then my eye lit on the bars and the par-
able became too obvious for mental com-
fort.
I flung wide the gilded door and the
otatare, dazed, tittitupped to the window-
sill. For a moment it stood there, poised,
then, after circling wildly in uncertain
ecstasy flew straight into the golden heart
of the sun.
Connewarra.
The seeding grasses ripple,
The casuarina sighs,
And the reedbeds are a-flutter
With russet butterflies,
Down by C onnewarra
Where the dark hills rise.
Above the misty ranges
The mountain eagle wheels,
And naught of chance or changes
The hazy valley feels,
Save summer coming hotly
On the bright spring’s heels;
Or winter weaving glory
With the colors autumn lost —
The fern trees white and hoary
In the last late frost,
And the wattles’ tumbled yellow
Down the grey days tossed.
The hills are kindly comrades,
The uplands loyal friends,
And through the tangled boxwood
And the grass-tree bends
The birds would sing us homeward
As the evening ends.
VICTORIA.
And, ah, Connewarra,
I wish that I could find,
Where the brown cradles swing them
In the sunset wind,
Half the love and loveliness
The years have left behind!
Here, half a lifetime after,
I can hear the night wind sough,
And the river in the ranges
Where the grey eve gathers now.
With the trailing mists about her
And stars across her brow.
And far from Connewarra,
In the fading amethyst,
So much there is I’m needing,
So much that I have missed;
I count my losses over —
A. long, long list.
“Will you not return again?”
The south winds are crying;
Through the hills of used-to-be
The high road is lying.
{Ah, the old heart-hunger
And the homesick sighing!)
The river softly answers;
The plaintive cuckoo cries,
“Never, never, never!”
The saddest of replies,
Down by Connewarra
Where the blue range lies.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £8.369,965
Aggregate Assets at 30tli June, 1928.. £18,633,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. It. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, 1.L.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER ; C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 02 Bisliopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 1 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,526
TIP ou Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
and Ireland, and other places.
GRANTS
Great Britain
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE U HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£1,000,000
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
i effected ou all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed-
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&C
Ltd.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sidney.
V-
! /-
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
** should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
ď
fd
ďf
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Varioua
Country Centrea.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
in
THE REGISTER,
which is read by a!i classes,
Proprietors:
W. K, THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
ERIC M. BIKKS, 21.5. W. Representative.
Telephone XoIB7.
G. N. BEKNALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.
Shipping, etc.
Sydney to Vancouver
Via
Suva and Honolulu
Like the multi-colored stream-
ers of farewell, days aboard
a Union Company Steamer are
gay and ever varied.
Between Ports of many
Pleasures strung lightly across
the Pacific, travellers enjoy the
refreshment of adventure,
peace and comfort.
Visit Pacific isles by the
CA NA DIA N-A US TRA LA SI A N
LINE
Union Steam Ship Company,
247 George Street, Sydney;
William Street, Melbourne.
HIIIILIU
#
I
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by All Steamship Lines.
Choice of Any Route. Without Extra Charge.
From AUSTRALIA to
ENGLAND
FRANCE
ITALY
GERMANY
AMERICA
CANADA
MEXICO
AFRICA
JAPAN
EGYPT
INDIA
CHINA
Also attractive tours to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji, etc.
BUSINESS TRIPS. PLEASURE CRUISES.
AUSTRALIA TO
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly sailings maintained by the popu-
lar steamers “MARELLA” and “MALA-
BAR” from Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane, via
Queensland Ports,
Torres Strait,
Darwin, etc.
For Reservations and
Information apply: —
u
ItL
HZ'.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. And all Branch Offices.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
fThemistocles 11,500 tens, Nor. 27
*Anchises... 10,\i00 ~ Dec. 10
*Ascanius... 10,000 ~ Jan* 7
JRunic ..... 12,500 „ Jan. 22
fEuripides . . 15,000 ~ Feb. 5
*Nestor 15,000 „ Mar. 18
.. . 18,500 ~ March 26
“■'First class only. fFirst and Third class.
s“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.
Joint
Agents
P. & 0. BRANCH SERVICE
ONE CLASS ONLY.
MONTHLY SERVICE.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown
To LONDON, via Colombo, Port Said
and Suez Canal
VIA SOUTH AFRICA.
BALRANALD Sails Nov. 21
BALLARAT „ Dec. 21
1929.
BENDIGO Jan. 18
VIA SUEZ CANAL.
1929.
BARRABOOL Sails Feb. 27
BENALLA „ April 1
Fares: To South Africa, £2l to £27
To London via Suez, £3B to £54
To London via Cape, £37 to £53
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.,
Tel. 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Huddart ParkerL
Magnifloent
*«»" Faat Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .. ,
RESERVE LIABILITY
d
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; Q. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Thread needle Street. E.C. 2.
518 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign:, places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable- throughout the world.
Shipping,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
Sydney Agents.
Mcllwraitli,
Meßacharn, Ltd..
19 Bridge Strei t.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge St reel
Howard Siuith Ltd.
58 Margaret Si
Huddart, l’arkei.
Ltd., 1U Bridge St.
Mcllv raith,
McKacharn, Ltd .
19 Bridge Street
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Melbourne S.S. C<>.
Ltd., Clarence
Barrack Sts.
Howard Smith Ltd.
58 Margaret St.
for BRISBANE, MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA— Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday eveni.ig,
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, a: 4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/6/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU. CIIALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-3 G Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
ft'
Care For Your Hair
With Cuticura Soap
And Cuticura Ointment.
Before shampooing anoint the
scalp with Cuticura Ointment,
letting it remain on over night
when possible. Then .shampoo
with a suds of Cuticura Soap and
warm water. Rinse thoroughly.
A clean, healthy scalp means
good hair.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
& Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
WT“ Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
SAFE with GUYATT’S!
31
(J
The improved Guyatt
Elastic Truss is the latest
and most efficient Elastic
Truss on the market to-day.
It has been altered and
improved in several import-
ant points of construction,
"until its strength, efficiency
and durability have been greatly increased. A careful
examination of this Truss will prove every claim
made for its advantage over others.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
GUYATT & CO.,
Expert Makers of Surgical Appliances,
Dept. 8., 257 a George St., Sydney.
Opposite Bridge Street.
HOTEL
METBOPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.


ďf
Miss STKHLLA WILSON,
the popular star, now appear-
ing with such marked success
in “The Vagabond King’’ at
Her Majesty’s Theatre, Sydney,
is a user of .Rexona Soap, and
writes as follows: “When
travelling, i have found hard
water and cold climates very
hard on my skin and com-
plexion. Now I use only
Rexona Soap, and 1 find it not
only cleanses hut stops irri-
tation and has improved my
complexion beyond all recog-
nition.’’
' Rexona.
<soap
~for
J and
l^exaitv
■f777rrrrr&^
rrrrrrf^
nrr
o*>
ovl»^
Wk
1/-
ď
New
Energy
with Sanatogen
Energy, bodily health and nerve strength!
These are the secrets of those happy,
exceptional days when "everything seems
to go right,” when you have an unwonted
feeling of vigour.
With Sanatogen you will work better,
fed better, and be able to enjoy your
leisure hours to the full .
q?
Start to-day with
SANATOGEN
The True Tonic - Food
At all Chemists—from 3/9 per tin.
GENATOSAN LTD.. LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.
first of all? Well, I don’t want any broken
bones, Dad. It’s a go.”
Coonardoo had kerosene buckets of water
boiling on the stove when Phyllis and Hugh
rode up to the verandah in the evening.
Phyllis threw a leg over her saddle and
alighted before Hugh could reach her.
“It’s been great, Hugh,” she said. “I
feel as if I’ve been starved and am devour-
ing the sight of it all—plains, wind grass,
and those dark hills. The wild To-morrow
Ranges, I say to myself. They look so
mysterious and impenetrable. It’s got a
taste for me, Dad, the sight and sound of
everything. Food for my soul, that’s what
it is. Oh, I’m as happy as Larry, and we’re
going out mustering presently, aren’t we?”
Phyllis had seen what Dionysus could
do the first morning Winni took him out
of the yards. He rooted and jumped about,
slewing and swinging round, bowed up, head
through his legs, while Winni, sitting back,
let him show-off. Then he belted the chest-
nut about the shoulder with his hat,
encouraging him to buck till he was tired.
“Let him show us what he can do, eh
AVinni?” Hugh crowed.
"If I could ride like that!” Phyllis ex-
claimed.
All that week Winni worked Dionysus,
lie took no end of pains with the horse,
teaching him to stand, and calling Phyllis
to hold and handle him, ride beside him,
so that the horse would know her voice.
Phyllis was impatient to be up and away
on Dionysus long before Winni would hear
of it.
"AVinni knows his job,” Hugh laughed.
"I can trust him to let you ride when
Dion’s ready for it. AVinni knows what
lie's doing all right.”
He was proud of the lad and his horse-
manship, conscious of the care he was taking
to break and gentle the stallion before giving
him to" Phyllis. Winni even made Coon-
ardoo try Dionysus before he would allow
Phyllis to mount, although she had the
easy, natural seat of a child who has
scrambled over horses almost as soon as
she could walk.
They had been out all day and were
coming in behind a mob of cows and calves
the evening AVinni handed Dionysus over to
Phyllis. She had been working with Hugh
and the boys as though she had done
nothing else all her life. AVinni himself
had been riding Dionysus.
Phyllis rode the chestnut to the gate of
the Five-mile paddock, and brought him
in proudly and delightedly, although there
was no one to see but old Joey Ivoonarra,
Bardi’s Polly, Pinja, Meenie, Bandogera,
Mick’s and Toby’s gins, the children and
dogs in the uloo.
"But I’d cry my eyes out of he didn’t
buck anjr more,” she confided to Coonardoo.
“It’s the dream of my life to sit a buck like
you and Winni do, Coonardoo.”
Coonardoo’s dark eyes gleamed. “You
sit ’m buck long time ago,” she said.
“I did, didn’t I?” Phyllis exclaimed glee-
fully. “But who’s that?” she asked, her
glance wavering to a gin, very dirty and
dejected looking, crouched against the wall
of the bathroom.
“Bardi!” Coonardoo replied. “She come
home. Run away from Don Drew. Walk
all way.”
“Bardi! Hullo, Bardi!” Phyllis called.
“You get homesick like me, eh?”
Bardi looked up and gurgled. Her eyes
were sore and bleary; she was very sorry
for herself, hungry and footsore, and she
know Chitali would beat her as soon as she
went along to the camp. But in a day or
two she had settled down into her old place
at the uloo, and was going about the home-
stead, laughing and chugging like a well-
greased engine, as fat and jolly as if bygones
were always bygones, and she had never
been away from the fireside of her man and
the native well on Wytaliba.
CHAPTER XXV.
When they were setting out for a three-
weeks’ cattle muster, two or three days
later, Dionysus put his head down and
bucked light-heartedly, racketing about.
Phyllis sat back, feeling as gay and light-
hearted as he in the clear morning air.
There was no doubt in Hugh’s mind after
that as to whether she could handle the
chestnut he had intended to ride himself,
although AVinni had two other horses for
Phyllis to ride in the mob he was taking,
for night work and cutting-out in the hills.
Coonardoo, Bardi and six of the boys
went out on the muster, and there were
twenty horses. Wanna had charge of the
packs; AVinni and Chitali, Toby and the
rest of the boys were riding with the
spare horses. Phyllis and Hugh led along
the long winding track to the hills. They
were going across the range to the Weel-
arra Gap. and working back in towards the
homestead again.
On the plains, beyond the first gate, wind
grass was still green; Mitchell grass rusty:
saltbush, fringing the red-earthy and
gravelled track, blue-grey and soft as smoke
to the edge of the hills. A flock of galahs
'■ose and wheeled, turning their breasts,
and floating like a pink cloud across the sky.
Trees stretched out from the foot of the
hills, acacia, thorn bush and mulga; gidya.
round, dark green and glossy-leafed; the
water-tree, from whose roots, if you were
bushed, you could quench your thirst. Mulga
gave the sky between the web of its twigs
and branches, with leaves fine and tough
and grey-blue. A flock of kangaroos,
gingery-red as the earth they hopped over,
forty perhaps, }'dung things, does and an
old boomer or two, scattered away through
the trees or over the plains. Java sparrows
flew off with faint sweet tinkling cries. The
mulga now and then was hung with pale
yellow tasselled blossom and long flat seed-
pods. Paper daisies spread in drifts under
the trees and away over the.flat land. Trails
of the desert pea spilt new bright blood
beside the track.
When Hugh swung off his saddle to have
a drink from the water-bag hung round
his horse's neck, he picked a spray of desert
pea. Phyllis stuck it through her hat band,
and they went off again at the quick walk
stock-horses travel by.
When they boiled the quartpots at mid-
day, Hugh threw an ol'd log of sandalwood
on the fire, and its dry, smoky fragrance
drifted far out across the plains and thrbugh
the hills.
Phyllis exclaimed, delighting in it all —
the wide blue skies, frail and exquisite; the
air so fine and dry, with that faint incense
of paper daisies and sandalwood. “I've
dreamt so often of doing this, Youie,” she
explained. “And I can’t tell you how it
eases some queer pain in me. You seem
able to breathe and think better in the
bigness out here.”
On the hillsides, where the earth under
thick, wide-spreading scrub of mulga and
thornbush was bare and shingly, Hugh’s
eyes were skimming for cattle tracks.
“Chitali’U find .’em.” he chuckled. “He'd
find cattle where no one else can. Tell
you a stray unbranded bullock in the tracks
of a mob. Out in the back hills two or
three years ago we were short of a couple
of hundred beasts and couldn’t pick ’em
up. 'Find ’em Koodgeeda Well,’ Chitali
said. None there. No tracks. Pointing
to a hill further on, ‘Over there, maybe!’
he said. ‘Far, Chitali?’ I asked. ‘No, not
far.’ We rode on ten miles. Nothing. No
tracks. There was a soak a bit further on.
‘Cattle Weelarra Soak,’ Chitali said. ‘Far,
Chitali?’ ‘No, not far.’ Rode another
four miles. Then I saw he was right. We
got tracks. ‘How far away are they,
Chitali?’ ‘Not far.’ We got the beasts
about five, miles further on.”
Phyllis laughed happily, enjoying Hugh’s
yarn. And just before sunset, as sketchy
outlines of an old wooden windmill were
darkening against the sky, Hugh and she
came to the well where they were to camp
for the night.
The boys had hobbled out the horses
and the camp-fires were going when Hugh
and Phyllis rode in. Coonardoo, who had
started ahead, was spreading the packs.
Phyllis insisted that, she should not be
treated like a young lady on a picnic. But
thei’e was nothing to do. Winni took her
horse and Hugh’s. Coonardoo and Bardi
had opened out the tucker-bags and ground
sheets. Phyllis was to sleep beside Hugh’s
fire, and she was glad enough to stretch
there, after her long day in the saddle, eat
huge chunks of meat and slabs of bread
with butter slapped on half an inch thick,
and drink the hot tea without milk he
brought her.
When she lay down against the earth,
for awhile she was too excited and happy
to sleep, listening to the clink-clink of the
hobbled horses, watching the stars, crisp
fires of silver, thick and bright in the blue-
green of the sky. Through the warm dark
came the creak of the fire as the embers
fell apart. A kangaroo hopped up to the
glow and away again; a bird cried, startled
by the horses’ feeding as they strayed
through the trees.
Before the first flush had crept into the
sky behind the rampart of the range the
camp was stirring again. Boys went out
after the horses. Coonardoo stoked the
fires, stood quartpots round the embers.
Raw meat grilling and frizzling put a
smoke and a harsh savor in the fresh morn-
ing air.
From the roll of her own gear Phyllis
took a towel and soap, splashed her face
and hands in a bucket of water Coonardoo
had set beside her, took the small tortoise-
shell comb from her trousers pocket and
raked back her hair.
She was anxious not to appear fussy, or
to make more demand on time and con-
venience than anybody else. After a meal
of steak, hot from the embers, and a hunk
of bread, with a mug of hot coffee, the
blacks saddled and slung the packs. Hugh
gave his directions for the day, and they
rode on again.
After riding for three days Weelarra Soak
was reached, and next morning the camp
broke into parties of two and spread out
fan-fashion, to ride mustering along the
range. Hugh and Phyllis were to go north;
Coonardoo and Winni south and east; Toby,
Mick and Chitali west, turning their beasts
to the camp where Wanna held the packs
and horses for cutting out.
Through the scrub Hugh and Phyllis
passed cattle, spread out and feeding, ruddy
and rusty young bullocks with great horns,
and a few cows and calves. Hugh turned
them and gave them a start in the direction
of the camp, so that he could pick them
up on his return. He was going to the
head of the creek, and making over the
range, to round up beasts from that end
towards the old yards on the claypan.
He camped at mid-day to make a fire,
put on the quarts, and Phyllis ate a piece
of meat and some bread from the tucker-
bags Hugh had strapped to his saddle, while
the horses nosed through the herbage. But
the meet was. for four o’clock; so Hugh
skipped his mid-day stretch and snooze in
the shade, smoked and Sffddled-up again.
It was easy going this end of the range,
(Continued on next page.)


DUB IT IM
Great Value Of
ZAM'BUK
As An Embrocation
the-chest
RHEUMATISM
LUMBA6O
SCIATICA
neuralgia
SORE THROAT
BRONCHITIS
stiffness
aches* PAINS.
t
K&
m
Y/
y
/
3;
L>.<
X
3 s
6
BY rubbing in Zam-Buk,
healing warmth and
valuable medicated oils are
carried to the seat of the
trouble —be it a cold on the
chest, a sore throat, or a
touch of neuralgia or rheu-
matism.
When you “rub it in,” Zam-
Buk liberates certain refined
herbal essences which soak
through the tiny pores into
the tissues beneath. Inflam-
mation, congestion and irri-
tation are allayed and trouble
is removed at its source.
Certain volatile medicaments
in Zam-Buk can be breathed
in with good effect in nasal
catarrh and bronchial trouble*
The total absence of mustard
and capsicum from this
wonderful rubbing balm
makes it soothing and safe to
use. Rub Zam-Buk in to rub
pain out!
RHEUMATIC PAIN & POISON EXPELLED;
“For months I suffered agonies with rheumatism in
both ankles. I tried all sorts of ordinary ointments and
liniments, but none did any good. Zam-Buk, however,
rubbed well into my swollen, aching joints, drove out
all pain and poison and banished the trouble com-
pletely.”—Mrs. D. Connolly, Franklin Street, Adelaide.
CRIPPLE WALKS
AGAIN
“After rheumatic fever
my legs remained very
swollen and Pain f u 1.
Regular use of Zam-Buk
eased the torturing pain,
and soon enabled me to
get about again.”—Mr.
Hoare, Wharf-s treet,
Brisbane.
FARMER’S ACHING
BACK
“With persistent use of
Zam-Buk my old deep-
seated lumbago pains com-
letely disappeared.’’—Mr.
W R. Fremantle, Zee-
Rust, Transvaal.
NEURALGIC PAINS
“I sulfered from neuralgia
in my head and arms, and
nothing seemed to do any
good until I got Zam-
Buk. This grand balm
proved ' a splendid pain-
reliever. It stopped the
attacks completely.”—
Mrs. G. dn Toit, Beau-
fort West, S.A.
WEAK CHESTS
HEALED
“My children were weak-
cliested and had nasty,
croupy coughs. Rubbed
well into the chest, Zam-
Buk stopped the cough,
eased the breathing and
made both children
strong-chested.” —Mrs. C.
F. Campbell, Willowmore,
S.A.
SPRAINS & STRAINS
“When I sprained my
wrist the pain, swelling
and inflammation were
terrible. Applications of
Zam-Buk, however, gave
splendid relief. It soon
made the w-rist strong and
supple again.” Mrs. Mee-
han, Toowoomba, Q.
FREE SAMPLES
OF ZAM-BUK
BALM & SOAP.
Here is an opportunity of testing Zam-Buk,
the world-famed herbal balm, and Zam-Buk
Medicinal Soap, free of charge. Simply send
vour name and address on a p.c. to C. E.
Fulford (Ausi.), I<td., Sydney, and trial
samples will be posted by return. Mention
Sydney Bulletin 14/11/-’2B.
'amßuk
THE GREAT HERBAL BALM
and the cattle moved off slowly towards
the plains whenever they were turned.
“We don’t want to rush ’em,” Hugh said,
and Phyllis knew her job was to ride in on
stragglers, and without exciting them get
them going down the range.
Chitali, Coonardoo and the boys had their
beasts on the flat when Hugh’s mob came
in. Circe was standing saddled beside the
fence of one of the oldest yards on W ytaliba.
“They’re looking good, eh, Chitali?” Hugh
overlooked his three-year-old and four-year-
ohl bullocks with satisfaction.
The black’s eyes glimmered to a smile in
the shadow of his hat brim as the mob
swayed and turned restlessly before him.
“Couple of S4G calves,” he said.
Phyllis never enjoyed anything more than
watching Hugh cut-out on Circe and hold-
ing her end of the swaying cattle. Winni had
brought her an old stock-horse for the job.
“Give him his head, Phyl,” Hugh said.
‘Damon knows his job. He’ll steady ’em.”
Hot, sweated and red-grimed with dust
as the men, Phyllis worked until sunset
with Hugh and the boys.
Warieda had trained Circe for cutting-
out years ago.:- She did nothing else and
had been at the game for twelve years.
It was a treat to see the sturdy little bay
mare go into a mob after a beast. You
would think she knew the bullock as well
as Hugh did, the way she cut-out that beast,
walking behind him, following on his tail
until on the fringe of the mob she shot him
out before he realised what had happened.
Then Chitali swung in behind and turned
him off among the fats Wanna and Mick
were holding for the road.
Cows, calves and stores had been turned
back to the hills again, and the fats were
in the yards so that there would be no
watching for the lirst night, when Cock-
eyed Bob came into the camp. He said he
was camped on the other side of the range,
had seen smoke on the table-top, guessed
Hugh was mustering, and came in for a bit
of sugar and a wongie [talk].
Cock-eye was glad of an invitation to eat
and camp with Hugh for the night. Sprawled
before the fire, he gave more of the gossip
of the country side—although he had been
in the ranges for nearly three months —than
Hugh had heard in years.
“Still got that little mare of yours was
such a wonder cuttin’-out, Hugh?” he asked.
“Too right I have,” Hugh agreed.
“'Never saw a better except Misstake.
You remember little Misstake they had on
Ashburton?”
“Circe’s by• Misstake,” Hugh said.
“You still hear ’m talk of her along the
river,” Bob went on. “Remember that
muster at Milli Creek in 1901, wasn’t it?”
“Nineteen one?” Hugh cogitated.
“Best muster ever I was at,” Bob said.
“There was sixty men and about two hund-
red horses, six horse tailers”
“Turn it up, Bob! Six horse tailers!”
Hugh murmured with gentle derision.
“They had Misstake down from the Ash-
burton, and there wasn’t a horse a patch
on her cutting out. Men turned up from
llligoogee, Nuniewarra, Five Rivers. We
were to meet at Milli Well. Tliere’d been
four inches on the creek a month or so
back, and the feed was good. I was on
llligoogee at the time.”
Hugh smiled to see Phyllis listening in-
tently to Bob’s yarn, although she knew it
had to be taken with a grain of salt.
Stretched on her stomach, at a little distance
from the fire, she listened, smiling and
chaffing Bob as he talked.
“Four inches, Bob?” she queried. “They’ve
got all the luck on Milli, haven’t they?”
‘'Bill Gale was there,” Bob said. “Never
seen a man sit a horse like Bill does—as if
lie was screwed on. He’s on Nuniewarra
now. Did y’ know?”
Hugh nodded.
Phvllis looked up, her eyes full of the
firelight. “Billy Gale?” she queried.
“Sam calls him his manager,” Cock-eye
explained; “head stockman he is, I sup-
pose. Bill doesn’t mind what he calls it.
The pays good and he runs the rule over
old Sam, they tell me. I reck’n Bill Gale’s
the finest stockman in the Nor’-West.”
“How’s the fiddle these days, Bob?”
Phvllis asked, presently.
“Going strong,” Bob replied eagerly. “Like
a tune?”
He hobbled across to where he had thrown
his pack and was back in a few
minutes, sat down beside the fire, tuned
up and very soon, absorbed and happy as
a child, was playing and singing the scraps
of sentimental ballads and ragtime he had
picked up in mustering camps from drovers,
teamsters, miners and cracked gramophones
grinding out their tunes in hotel bars.
Phyllis, half asleep by the fire, heard him
laying a white rose bud on his “sweetheart’s
gr-y-ave” and wakened to the trot and
taunting melody of “La Donna e Mobile.'
“Where did you get that, Bob?” she called.
“Bill. He’s always singin’ it,” Bob mur-
mured. “Was prospectin’ with me a bit
last year. Got it from a Dago woman he
was ” gone-on in Roebourne and you
should ’ve heard him beef it out. We was
singin’ and playing half the night some-
times.”
Phyllis shook herself from the drowsiness
which had been creeping over her.
“I’ll turn in,” she said, starting up. She
stood a moment before the fire, stretching.
It was good to be having this life; to be
part of it; to feel serene and sleepy.
“Good night, Dad. Night, Bob.”
She swung off; sat down on her ground-
sheet a few yards from the fire, had a good
look round to see there were no ants about,
stood her saddle up behind her as a break-
wind, took off her boots and blouse, pulled
a woollen jumper over her head, placed
her felt hat over her boots to keep the dew
out, and was asleep in a few minutes.
CHAPTER XXVI.
Mick and Toby were tailing the fats.
Chitali, Coonardoo, Winni, Hugh and
Phyllis, riding into the hills next day,
mustered a rough and rugged "stretch of
country. The meet was for four o clock,
five miles further down the creek.
It was harder riding than the day before,
and the cattle were wilder. Late in the
afternoon Hugh joined up with Coonardoo,
Winni and Chitali, bringing in about two
hundred and fifty beasts.
As they rode up to the bend of the creek
where Wanna and Bardi had a fire going,
Chitali exclaimed:
“Billy Gale come in!”
Hugh did not look pleased. He roue
over to the camp, where a man was stand-
ing beside his horse.
A tall, rakish young man with the slouch
and bend of a horseman, Billy Gale stood
waiting as Hugh and Phyllis approached
him. There was ease and assurance in his
bearing, something free and untamed. He
had the air of an animal belonging to the
country.
His trousers, the worn buff and earthy
red of the clay pan, covered him as if he
grew them; his shirt, rolled back from sun-
red neck and breast, was tawny and dust-
stained, too. His spurs, the ends of ins
narrow pull-on stockman boots and his big
Nor’-West hat were struck against the light
behind him. • The thin, hard, brown face
in the shadow of his hat was only a shade
less dark than Winni’s or Coonardoo’s.
Phyllis remembered the face she had seen
on a Papuan carving, a queer, sensitive,
faunish face, with oblique eyes, three-
cornered eyebrows. Mouth hooked over the
pipe he was lighting, his eyes smiled into
hers, a queer, restless, glittering smile. There
was a lazy, unconscious grace about the
man as when he had helped to dig her car
out of the mud at Nuniewarra.
“Thanks for y’r message, Mr. Watt,” he
said. “As y’r mustering, thought I’d better
ride over and see if there’s any of our
young stuff about.”
“Bound to be,” Hugh replied dryly.
“There’s always some of your young, stuff
about. Damned funny none of Sam’s old
stuff fancies runnin’ with my cattle.
“Go on,” Bill Gale laughed. “I’ll see
you get a fair crack of the whip now, Mr.
Watt.” , „ , .
Winni had brought Circe saddled tor
cutting-out. Hugh changed horses, turned
and rode out to the mob the boys were
holding.
Hugn cut-out on Circe while the boys held
the mob, and Billy Gale stood off watching.
Phyllis resented the curious, amused stare
with which he followed her.
There were no yards, and the fats had
to be held during the night. Hugh set the
watches: Chitali and Wanna for the first,
then Coonardoo and Winni. He took the
dawn watch himself with Mick.
After they had eaten from a hot-Dot of
salt-beef, Hugh yarned with Billy Gale for
a while, sprawling beside the fire, and
Phyllis, lying on her back, gazed up at the
stars, listening and smoking.
“Bought out Otto But-Not-of-Roses,” Bill
was saying. “Supposed to be fifty thousand
acres, three or four hundred cattle, and
open country around.”
“Go on!” Hugh muttered drowsily.
“But all I ever mustered was eighteen
beasts, and they were dead round a dry
waterhole.”
The blacks were singing round their camp-
fires. Phyllis could hear Coonardoo’s voice
and Winni’s. The melody on its low rhyth-
mic beat wailed through her consciousness
with a breath of earth and the icons of space
above her.
“Catchy-Catchy Downs, Otto called the
place,” Billy’s voice drove on. “Cause he’d
stocked-up on the catch-as-catch-can prin-
ciple, and branded anything came his way.
Liked to talk about his station. An empty
tank on a mulga ridge, it was. Lived there
with a couple of blacks and their gins for
Gord knows how long.”
Phyllis wakened to see the mob hunched
dark upon the plains in the starlight, to
hear the boys going round the cattle; Chitali
on the inside, riding halfway and then
back; Wanna on the other side, riding to
meet him and back; the horses swinging
with easy movement to the wavering air of
the blacks’ low singing. Phyllis was not
to go on watch for the first night or two
until the cattle were more or less settled
down. But, sleeping lightly, she heard t-he
watches changed; Chitali waken Coonardoo,
and Winni come to Hugh. She had seen
Hugh pull on his boots and go over to the
kerosene-tin of coffee by the fire, dip in
his quartpot and drink.
“How are they?” he asked Winni.
“Mooehin’ all round. Won’t settle at
all,” Winni said quietly. “Keep your eye
on the white-faced bullock on the far side.”
Hugh swung into his saddle on the night
horse Winni brought,, and moved slowly
over to the mob. Winni, beside the blacks’
five, squatted a moment, taking off his boots,
then stretched. The camp-fires creaked
and flickered again, while Hugh went on
with the air Winni had been singing, in a
low voice, very flat and out of tune, wander-
ing off after a while into
“Trust him not, oh gentle stranger,
Though his voice be low and sweet,”
and keening that going until dawn.
(To he continued.)


Btn
IS
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—'HOXiMJ£iS *£ CHU
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington
Victorian Olllce—"Chancery House,” 4-8 S ¥s ofrlce Street, Melhoiirne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. EIDEB, MMI I II & CO., LIB., Adelaide.
S. A.
THE CREDIT OF TASMANIA
is undoubted and
THE MERCURY
A CREDIT TO TASMANIA
The “Mercury” is the only Metropolitan News-
paper in the. State. Its news services, articles
and typography are unexcelled in Australia.
THE MERCURY
Covers the Whole State,
and its circulation greatly exceeds the combined
figures of the other dailies in. Tasmania.
Delivered by fast motor-cars, it reaches Laun-
ceston (121 miles), Doloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before breakfast.
ESTABLISHED 1854, PRICE l|d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F, L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
The Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South Australia,
and is Read by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation in
Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny of Net Sales
invited.
ALL THE NEWS AND ALL THE
ADVERTISEMENTS.
fn 1927 average size of “THE ADVERTISER,”
20 pages of 8 columns (each 24£ inch deep).
Space occupied by advertisements averaged
161 pages daily, or a Total of
988,712 INCHES IN THE YEAR.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agances of
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 'price lid.
Head Offices:
J. L. Bonython & Co.,
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. L. WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone MA 3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. It gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to:—
Robt. Jackson, N.S.W. Branch Manager,
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
Ist Floor, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone 81522.
<>
<&■
$
v
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
ft is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “ Weekly Courier” ' and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Patterson Street, 122 Flinders Street, 701 Herald Building,
Launceston. Melbourne. 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE CHRISTMAS ISSUE OF
“THE QUEENSLANDER”
(DATED DECEMBER 6, 1928)
Queensland’s Popular and Brightly Illustrated Weekly,
■will be the Largest and Most Attractive Xmas Number ever published, contain-
ing Pictures in Colors and a big collection of illustrated Stories, Special
Articles, etc. The usual weekly features will be retained, making it A TYPICAL
QUEENSLAND PRODUCTION.
A Beautiful Colored Supplement, entitled “A PASTORAL SCENE,” will be Pre-
sented FREE with each copy. This picture is splendidly reproduced on Heavy
Art Paper, and should be extremely popular.
PRICE 1/-
including
Supplement
Booh your order now at any of the following N.S.W. Agents ;—
Gordon and Gotch (Aust.), Ltd., Barrack and Clarence Streets; N.S.W. Bookstall Co., George
Street and Central Railway Station; Uneeda News Agency, Bond Street; Swains, Ltd., Pitt Street;
Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
PUBLISHED BY THE
BRISBANE NEWSPAPER COMPANY, LIMITED,
“Courier” Building, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also Publishers of the “Brisbane Courier” and “Sports Referee.”
' | WON ~
l Wonder, how
H
(
That Problem never worries' me
'he
PLUM
A
£
a
*
B
3s
5 a:
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the 'razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/0 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle . . . . 21 /-
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Hay PLUM Razor Sets: —
Black 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and keot
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths; fin, and fin.
Post-paid Prices
v>LUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
each. Rost Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
if®
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Restful, quiet and cool—open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully situated with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service.
Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff from 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS—DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’ trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012 (1 lines).
V
*
i
aV
o°,
Gao® -
s ?*4 6
s 6
s*
■•** ..•••’* ..<ss>
..•* .•* «
..- tf* “^A* 0
•••; w*


fd
ďf
d
fd
Get the Brymay Book and
Build Your Model Now
The Brymay Game Book for Boys and Girls tells how to make
all sorts of amusing things with empty match boxes trains,
trams, dolls’ furniture, scores of models. It provides endless
fun and amusement for leisure hours.
It also gives full details of a competition which offers big prizes
for original models. This closes on December Ist, so write at
once for a copy of the book. It is free —no coupons, no labels,
no entry fee to competition are required.
REMEMBER THE CLOSING DATE—DEC. Ist.
BRYANT & MAY PTY., LTD.,
RICHMOND El, VICTORIA.
Please Mark Your Envelope “Toys.’*
£5O in Prizes
for Best Original
Models.
The competition is for children
of all ages, and for the most
original models sent in by boys
and girls we will award Cash
Prizes as follows:
First Prize £2O
Second Prize ...... £lO
Third Prize £5
Fourth Prize £3
Fifth Prize £2
And Ten Prizes of £1 each.
■v-i.
AUSTRALIAN
HATCHES
1 \T\
jr -\,.y
SE«w/
•So.<«
s>Zyy*eryH4 ;
C<*
