

t, • -&WM —
I NS iST
USB
r
T
. ' •; /:-
'
I Si
■
■
'
% ■
• -■
m
m
■
ft
U/
m
m
Ui
//.
PRf
C
x-"
t
/
BRAND
: ■
I
■
. I
iiSii
Si.
1
w#ifs'
H
«'. <?
■
PI
fp*r
m
«
mm
1 -m.<-
fcti .i.'fr, jaiiirf i a'Mi J*^»ifii'»Bi»*«*H<»-* > i
p iii^iiiiiw
n
„ jSm , >:OV ' J
s!% jpHBP* « «* ' 2?<
wt> - i
>rw „
I u PON
; r~ £ "awgr
,1 @f?AN 0
■ •
Vi
o. •
.jiii
<•'>
, ■■:
< I
i
mik
VmM
as
m
Hi
# //-f, iLmSOm ¥ m ~ t
m
m
mMi
:l!il
/ *** ••■ •~ -•~" ’■ ■ * 1
MR
w$
Wh
" <.*
mm
WM
WMm.
Bill
mm
* .{>£
tmMm
1:11
w
HUTTONS
PINEAPPLE
BACON. HAMS
AMD
SAUSAGES
< v> ; ?;*<<
v
ii—■■■■hi ——i——
.
The Bulletin
THE WORLD’S BEST SHORT STORIES.
‘THE BULL PADDOCK,” BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
Vol. 49.—N0. 2508.
Wednesday, March 7, 1928.
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


W R ITE for the catalogue and
lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to—
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE DTD
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. *’
ifti
'856
Qf an y £>ranch oP
™ NATIONAL BANK
you may obtain Copies of its Informative Booklets
entitled
SERVICES & FACILITIES
AND
ARE YOU GOING ABROAD?
These Publications Convey n\uch useful
Information and Indicate the Various
Ways in Which the may be
helpful to you
They show that the Bank’s. Service-
covers the Financial side oP Primary
&, Secondary Production, Land Settle-
rnent,Trade & Commerce. Investments,
Loans, Overseas Business & Tourist*
Requirements
COPIES MAY BE OBTAINED AT ANY OF THE BANK’S BRANCHES
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Capita/ Paid up 960,377
ToFal AsseFs in 1917
£15,017,282
in 1927
£+2,909,796
The Best
Pipe
of All
Look for the LOEWE
Mark
&
'T'HE name of Loewe has been
synonymous with pipe per-
fection for over 70 years. It has
made London famous as the
home of the briar. To-day
Loewe Briars are smoked the
world over 'because we have
always maintained the Loewe
tradition of producing the per-
fect pipe, made by hand by
skilled London craftsmen, from the
finest naturally matured briar—a pipe
which is regarded as "the best of all "
in the Mother Country.
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES
Bowl cut from the heart of
naturally matured briar root.
Mouthpiece cut by hand from
pure Para vulcanite.
Weight and balance perfect .
Solid Silver mounted.
Complete pipe made by hand by
skilled London craftsmen.
•vs*
£asyjCargfe "
ONE OF THE MANY
LOEWE SHAPES
Ua LOEWE
SILVER
MOUNTED
Write for Illustrated Booklet. L. M BROWNE, BOX 565, G.
N.S.W.
This year the bigger Bulletin won t print as many short stories as the
Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
KILL THE TYPHOID FLY.
“MUSTDIE”
THE NON-POISONOUS POW-
DER, is Infallible in Destroying
all Insect Pests, but is Abso-
lutely Harmless to Canaries
Dogs, Poultry; in fact, all
Animals and Man.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
Sold Everywhere. Price 1/-
W,
HOUSE
FLIES
ARE
POTENT
CARRIERS
OF
DISEASE.
The Red Page
Rupert Atkinson
An Australian poet and writer of plays of
distinctively Dionysian tendencies, E. J.
Rupert Atkinson has won a reputation
among literary folk for his originality and
daring. That he has not become known to
a corresponding extent among the general
public is a tribute to his unconventionality.
His poetiy, which he has been writing from
his early years, was first published in a
ponderous tome; had it been a Koran or
a Talmud it could not have been less in-
viting. His later book, “A Flagon of Song,”
containing his best verse, old and new, met
a better fate and found its way into public
and private libraries, and was hailed en-
thusiastically by the reviewers. It was well
named, for its aroma is that of rich red
wine, heady and stimulating. It is an
arresting book, but in spite of its frankly
bacchanalian spirit it leaves no after-taste
of bitterness, though its score of “Melbourne
Sonnets” are tinged with a genial satire;
a sardonic humor is their chief character-
istic. Yet when, in his gentler 'moods, our
poet contemplates the beauties of Nature,
he sees them in all their beauty of color
and form, softened by atmospheric mists,
and he limns their charms lovingly. He
shows his dramatic, sense in his narrative
poems, such as “A Viking’s Death” and “The
King of Sardis,” in which he depicts strik-
ing incident and human emotions with an
air so sweeping that it gathers in equally
the grand tragic motive and the intimacies
of thought and feeling.
Mr. Atkinson’s genius is, indeed, dramatic,
though it has lyrical moments, and in his
manner and outlook he is often Elizabethan.
He delights in rhetoric and is eloquent in
the rich phrase; he makes time and space
and the large issues of the human soul his
theme, scorning its pettiness, contemplating
life -widely. When he sees people individu-
ally it is as types which he uses fbr the
elucidation of the great mysteries. His
conviction of the permanence of the human
spirit is the theme of his fantastic tragedy
in three acts which he entitles “Each Man
a Multitude,” the adjective “fantastic”
applying rather to the method of its treat-
ment in dramatic form—for it has no rela-
tion to the stage-drama and is manifestly
unactable—than to any lack of reality in
its philosophic viewpoint. Its theme indeed
is of universal application—we are not so
much ourselves as our forebears. Mr.
Atkinson does not allow anybody to deceive
anyone; he knows that the real man is the
hidden spirit that controls him, often in
spite of his efforts to live normally and con-
form to the conventions of human relations.
The principal character is not so much
Gerard Mortimer, as he is known among his
associates, as his sub-conscious personali-
ties, to whom are given the names of Pierre
and Gustav, whose contrasting spirits of
good and evil in turn dominate him through
heredity. The theme is treated fantastic-
ally to the extent that we see Gerard under
abnormal conditions, striving to assert him-
self but controlled by his thoughts, which
are not his, but theirs.
Mental activity of the psychological kind
also pervades the play entitled “The Dead
Man’s Ghost,” which deals with the problem
of the influence of a dead man upon those
with whom he has been associated and the
possibility of his spirit revealing the identity
of his murderer. Although dead his presence
persists, and through the intangible influ-
ence of his spirit lays bare the tragic truth.
Written in blank verse it has an eloquence
and directness that remind one of Webster,
the Elizabethan dramatist, though it is
modern and Australian.
Very much more direct in treatment,
simple in its motive and realistic in inci-
dent is another play, “Ten Years’
Remorse,” which tells of the remorse of a
young man who, by neglect in giving a
signal, brings about a railway accident in
which a friend of his is believed to have
been killed. The victim of remorse becomes
a moral and physical wreck, but the sup-
posed victim of the tragedy turns up well
and prosperous after ten years’ absence,
with one object in mind—to save the de-
graded creature from his self-inflicted doom.
In a fit of resentment the miserable man
actually kills his friend and this makes the
supposed tragedy a reality. This is a power-
ful play, admirably and truthfully written.
Another play of Mr. Atkinson’s that has
been published, “A Nocturne,” also tells a
grim story and tells it with haunting
realism. A dipsomaniac kills his dearest
friend in a fit of drunken rage and when he
becomes sober and hears the news vows
to track down the murderer, whom he
has seen in a street mirror. Sober and
drunk he continues his search, and at last,
in a condition of despair and besotted
misery, finds himself again on the tragic
spot, and seeing himself in the advertise-
ment mirror as on the fateful night, haggard
and dishevelled again, recognises himself as
the murderer. For all its naked horror the
story has much psychological interest.
As a dramatist, then, and as a poet Mr
Atkinson’s epic flights, though he soars into
the empyrean, have their jumping-off place
in the mud and slush of the modern world
But in his scorn of the murk he has sought
high planes of thought that he might find
beauty and peace, and get into touch with
the beneficent God. He keeps out of reach
of sentimentalism, but he never ceases to
speculate upon the big emotions of human
nature, its strivings and its failures. A
great compassion sets him theorising upon
fate and the means of escape. His idealism
is always grounded in the actual, or as near
the actual as humanity ever gets. So his
imaginative faculties and his satiric impulse
scorn the pettiness of an age that refuses to
face the elemental facts, and he would
force them upon us so that he may show
vice at once in its allurement and its horror.
Consequently, of course, he ranks as a deca-
dent, for he has not altogether succeeded in
concealing the shreds and patches of the
jester under the mantle of the seer.
E.A.V.
The Intelligent Playgoer
I hat elusive person, the “intelligent” Aus-
tralian playgoer, has been actively pursued
for years. Hordes of amateur repertorians
have been after him with guns loaded with
Drinkwater and Shaw. Sugared words have
been laid for him, he has been threatened
and cajoled. Up to date, however, the bag
has been disappointingly small. There are
repertoiy societies by the score, but the
longest run of the play that bristles with
ideas is three nights, in the smallest hall
m town. The intelligent playgoer does not
eventuate. Some pessimists are beginning
to say that he doesn’t exist,
c 01 So a £° th® Taits burst into the
u - y been for a long time aware
ol the painful discrepancy between th
artistic qualities of the musical and the
dramatic goods they offered the publi
temporarily placing their reasoning facu-
ties on the shelf, they accepted the amatei
lepert orians dictum that only the amatei ■
repertorian could remedy this state
affairs. So, with Mr. Gregan McMahon ;
a go-between, they arranged a companiona e
marriage. All their theatrical resources wer?
to be placed at the disposal of the move
ment, the repertorians were to hustle u
their supporters on the usual subscriptio
basis, and the Australian national theatr
was to dawn.
It is no secret now. that the dawn wa
false. Five plays were staged in the tw
largest capital cities and in a professiona
theatre ; but except for the first nights, whic 1
are always social affairs, the attendance wa£
not satisfactory. The Taits, in fact, pai
heavily for their altruism in good doubloons
They lost £BOO in 1927. In addition
one of the main planks of the reper
tory movement —the staging of Aus
tralian plays—was not realised at all. Th
amateurs could see themselves as Russia!
moujiks or Italian counts, but they woulc
not tackle such homely parts as bushmen o
. oolloomooloo tarts. In fact, the commer
cial stage did better. It produced at leas
one Australian play, albeit a poor example.
So divorce proceedings are in the air. A
far as the Taits are concerned, the amateu
repertory movement is done with. The nex
move of the Firm, which is still determinec ■
to seek out the intelligent playgoer in his
lair, is an entirely professional affair. A
permanent stock company, comprised of the
best talent accessible, will be organised by
Mr. McMahon. Good amateurs will, o
course, be eligible, but only on professiona
terms. The company will play al5 weeks
season m a good theatre in Melbourne anc
another one in Sydney; then it will go on
tour. The plays will all belong to the kind
lather tritely classified as the drama of
ideas. Australasian rights have been obtainec
mm levy’s “This Woman Business,”
O Neills Anna Christie” and-“ Beyond the
Horizon,” Norman MacOwan’s “Jacob’s
.Ladder, and many others. The Australian
Harrison Owen will have his “Happy Hus-
band performed by the new concern in-
stead of by Boucicault. In addition, each
year s programme is to include at least one
Australian play. Katharine Prichard’s re-
markable drama of the Nor’-West, “Brumby
Innes,” a,nd Max Murray’s “Red Dust” are
already listed. It is hoped to obtain the
nucleus of support on the subscription prin-
C tP an y case the Taits are going
ahead to make or lose money until the pro-
ject is well tested.
Ihere will be the usual complaints, largely
from people who seldom, if ever, go near
an amateur performance, about the commer-
cialising of art. Poor old Art has been com-
mercialised, from Rubens and Shakspeare
to Backhaus, Pavlova, Norman Lindsay and
Madame Melba, and has survived the shock
d he amateur has had his go at smoking the
intelligentsia out of their homes, and has
mainly succeeded in producing a crop of
rather unsavory squabbles. If the profes-
sional fails, then, perhaps, it will be time to
blame the plays.
M.G.S.
The Soviet Year-book
, a m atter of common knowledge
that, although the Soviet Union possesses
immense resources of natural wealth, it is
not in a position to make full use of such
possessions owing to the lack of a sufficient
amount of free capital for the task ”
In November, 1917, Russia laid in blood
the foundation of a republic that was to be
communistic from lowest stone to highest
pinnacle. Aiistocrats, bourgeoisie and capi-
talists were murdered off-hand. A popular
despotism was established in which the pro-
letariat voted as it was commanded under
(Continued on page 5.)


“Truth in Advertising.”
Anthony Horderns 1
Labor-
Saving
Farm Equipment
for Deep and Fine Cultivation
e
The Star Disc Harrow
The Star Disc Harrow contains all the features of any importance in a Disc Harrow,
and includes besides many advantages and conveniences for the cheap and success-
ful use of such an implement, among which we mention the following:
Frames and Braces. The strong channel-steel frame and braces that hold both ends
of each gang down to their work, and, at the same time, give the desired flexibility.
Seat. A seat so arranged that it can be adjusted for a light or heavy driver, and
an excess of weight taken off the horses’ necks.
Pole.— Now dispensed with, a two-wheel fore-truck taking its place, doing away
with all friction on the horses, and enabling operator to turn his team in their
own length.
Rollers.—Anti-friction rollers over the draw irons, by which the gangs can be
placed at any angle without strain or friction, and with least power. Also fitted
with 2- and 3-horse Swingletrees, i.e., 2 for sft.; 3 for 6ft.
Bearings.—Most durable bearings, with oil holes protected from dust with spring
steel covers.
Complete Machine.—The whole excellently finished; and made with every modern
improvement and convenience and to be operated with greatest ease for man
and team.
3ft. wide, 6 discs, 16in. size of discs, £l3. Light 2-horse, sft. wide, 10 discs, 16in.
size of discs, 3021 b. net weight, £l7. 2- or 3-horse, 6ft. wide, 12 discs, 16in. size
of discs, 3691 b. net weight (XT I 2), £lB.
All Star Harrows have two levers. Cleaners included.
Ransomes’ Improved Chain Harrows
These Harrows are useful for cleaning land, dressing meadows, covering seeds and
reducing clods. Being made entirely of diagonal wrought-iron links, working loosely in
each other, they have the property of clearing themselves from all accumulation of soil.
Stocked in the following sizes:
sft. x 7ft. 6in £4 5 0 Bft. x 7ft. 6in £6 7 6
6ft. x 7ft. 6in £5 0 0 1 Oft. x 7ft. 6in £7 18 6
o—O
<s*
0,
i
X
The Morgan Patent Spading Harrow
If with 2-Wheel Fore Carriage, 67/6 extra. Harrows 4ft. and over supplied
with 2 levers.
All these styles have the Cleaner attachment, preventing loading or
clogging when ground is wet and trashy, and when harrowing in
manure, straw or rubbish. For working three horses abreast we supply
a new device that gives an offset to the pole, and overcomes any
tendency to side draft. This offset device is bolted to the short or
rear part of the pole and extends to the right, the long pole being then
bolted to the right side of the offset; this brings the middle horse
directly in the centre of draft, and no side draft results. The frames
of all Harrows are made of the best wrought-iron and steel, and are
arched so that they will easily pass over uneven ground and any
ordinary obstructions. The blades are S-shaped, each being made from
one solid piece of spring steel; they cut into and lift the soil to a depth
of four to six inches, turning and pulverising the ground precisely like
the hand spade.
The gangs can be adjusted to any desired angle by the hand lever; they
float freely, and thoroughly pulverise and level hard, lumpy and uneven
fields. For fitting Autumn ploughed fields, especially if the soil be
heavy or packed by rains, the Spading Harrow will show its great
superiority over others. For working on stony ground, and on newly
cleared ground where there are roots and stumps, the S-shaped blades
offer less resistance than those of any other rotary harrow, and do
effective work where no other will prove satisfactory. For deep and
fine cultivation no Harrow equals the Morgan. Unploughed corn
stubble or hard-packed soils are made loose and pliable to a depth of
five to six inches, and if used on light and mellow ground, work as
shallow as desired can be done by taking off the weight of the driver
and setting the gang at a single angle.
The “D.P.S.” will help you secure one of these without a large immediate outlay. No Interest Charged
Anthony Hordern
and Sons, Limited,
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box No. 2712 C, G.P.O.


\
4
1
Impurities in lead and lead oxides
shorten the life of any storage
battery, Willard standards for
lead and lead oxides are by far
the most rigid in the industry.
that's
Quality
è
STORAGE
BATTERY
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., LTD.
68 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD., Perth.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., LTD
482 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MOTOR SUPPLIES, LTD., Brisbane.


ê
the eye and bayonet of a Red Army. Here
and there, following the lead of the master
butchers in Moscow, independent soviets
sprang up, as in the Ukraine, Armenia and
Georgia; but in 1923 they united with the
central body and constituted a Union of
Socialist Soviet Republics. On the occa-
sion, July 6 of that year, a Constitution
was passed in which appeared the follow-
ing:—
There [in the camp of capitalism] are national
enmity and inequality, colonial slavery and chauvin-
ism, national oppression and pogroms, imperialist
brutalities and wars. Here [in the camp of socialism]
are mutual confidence and peace, national freedom
and equality, a dwelling together in peace and the
brotherly collaboration of peoples.
Into this Eden it is hard to conceive that
Capital, the serpent, the evil one, whose
head had been so bloodily crushed in the
dust, should in a few years be invited with
many soft words to return. Yet that is
what has been going on for some year's
past, as A. A. Santalov and Louis Segal set
out in the Soviet Year-book, 1927 (Allen
and Unwin).
The humble admission in the passage
quoted at the head of this article reads
strangely when set side by side with the
declaration in the Soviet Union’s Consti-
tution. To have so heartily damned him
and now to be so obsequiously beseeching
him! The Soviet Union, we are told, is
moving in the direction of expansion and
development; but “this process of econo-
mic development could become more inten-
sive if foreign capital participated in
developing the natural resources, industry,
transport and commerce in which the
Soviet Union is not able to invest an
adequate amount of capital.”
All sorts of concessions are offered to the
capitalist. The Soviet’s guarantee, for
example, that the property which a con-
cessionaire invests shall not be subject to
nationalisation, confiscation or requisition.
It guarantees that no change in the con-
ditions of the concessionary agreements
will be introduced by any order or decree
of Government without consent of the
concessionaire. If the capitalistic fly has
walked into the Soviet’s economic parlor
and put up his cash, then should at any
time occasion arise for him to apply tech-
nical improvement, on a large scale, in the
working of his concession, he may bring
the plant in from abroad—“and every
facility is extended to him as regards cus-
toms tariffs and so forth.” He may even
export some of his products if the Govern-
ment doesn’t want them. He may pay for
the concession granted to him by handing
over to the Government a definite part of
his output, or by a parcel of shares, or by
the sale of output or part of it at a re-
duced price to the proletariat machine, or
by the payment to it of an excess-profit
duty. You may take your choice, if only
you will bring your money.
These are some of the many springes to
catch the capitalistic woodcock. The bird,
however, still seems shy. In 1922, six Ger-
man, three British, four American and three
outside capitalists, it may be from Pales-
tine, took the risk. The following year
things brightened. The British and Ger-
mans doubled their number and one
Frenchman looked in. Uncle Sam was
waxy and added only one to his number.
Two Austrians had a flutter. By 1926 the
numbers had increased as follows: German
39, British 23, U.S.A. 15, France (still shy)
5, Polish 6, Austrian 5, Japanese 5.
Trade concessions—which meant putting
your money in and getting it out quickly—
at first took precedence: since then manu-
factures and mining have come abreast.
Germany occupies the first place in respect
of the number of agreements concluded
and there is a touch of grim humor in the
fact that the Krupps of the vast arsenals
have taken up a concession for the gentle
pursuit of sheep-breeding! Still a total
of 144 capitalists drawn into the net in five
years does not argue much confidence in
the Reds’ assurances.
T.B.C.
Sp-
Spit, spar, spine, spear, spike, spur—note
the meanings of these words. They sug-
gest dispersion, jutting out, ejection, and
so on. They all imply a movement out-
wards or away from some centre. That is
a remarkable characteristic of an enor-
mous number of words which begin with
“sp.”
Some time ago (R.P. 30/12/’26) I pointed
out that words beginning with “bl” very
frequently had , a derogatory or contemptu-
ous significance; and the further 1 coinci-
dence (?) that “sp ” words nearly all
cluster around a common idea (in this case,
the idea of “outwards”) suggests that a
careful study of the dictionary from this
point of view might throw some light on
the origin of language. The theory that it
developed from the imitation of natural
sounds or oi the cries of other creatures
(which has had powerful support from
many philologists) might well need to be
recast if words were all grouped according
to sound. If this were done with discrimi-
nation, it might well appear that certain
basic ideas (“necessities of expression”)
have found vocal form in sounds which are
not merely imitative of sounds found in
nature but which are also emotionally
satisfying.
There is no doubt that the “sp” sound
is strongly suggestive of something spurt-
ing out, rushing forth, spreading abroad;
the word “spurt” itself is a good example.
Like all “sp” words, it is by no means
“colorless” or inexpressive; on the contrary,
it is (and they all are) highly onomato-
poeic.
If we consider other words of the group
we cannot help but notice with what ex-
quisite subtlety the “outwards” idea
expresses itself. Spa (mineral spring),
splay, spadroon (which means “cut and
thrust swordplay”), spall (a chip of stone
struck off by a hammer), spangle (especi-
ally when used as a verb), splash, sparge
(to sprinkle), spark, speed (forth), sparkle,
spirit (and aspire), (to cast a) spell, spite,
spittle, spit (in several senses, including
the culinary), spat, spill (and spilth), spate
(a gush), spend, spatter, spatulate (and
spatula), spawn (especially as a verb),
sperm, speak, spindle, spew (or spue),
spider (and -y), spile (a stake), spinifex,
(to vent one’s) spleen, splendid (which
means “shining,” thus connecting with the
same idea), spy (to spy out), sputum,
splore (to make an ostentatious display),
spread, splurge, sprig (a “shoot”), spring
(forth), splutter, spontaneous, sporadic,
spore, sprinkle, sprit (to sprout), spume,
sport’ (as used in biology, for example),
spout, sprawl, spray, spurn, spurt.
And then, too, there is obviously a con-
nection between these and such words as
display, explore, expunge, aspirate, dis-
pense and hundreds of others of the type.
Many of these words are unpleasant and
most of them could be (and are) used in
the vocabulary of vituperation. But vitu-
peration is expressive of emotional disturb-
ance. It would seem that there is some
weight in the above suggestion that as lan-
guage developed, certain sounds “survived”
(however they may have come originally
to human tongues) because they were
charged with great emotional force. As to
why some sounds should have more emo-
tional power than others—that is a ques-
tion to be faced by the psychologist, with
the aid of the aesthetic philosopher.
WARREN GRAVES.
A Satchel of Books
Fun and Fantasy (Methuen). A collection
of drawings from Punch, by Ernest H.
Shepard.
The Brook Kerith, by George Moore
(Heinemann). This latest edition has been
extensively revised by the author.
The Kuklos Papers, by Fitzwater Wray
(Dent). Bright out-of-door sketches of the
road and the people who are met by the way.
Avarice House, by Julian Green (Benn).
Translated from the French. A psychological
study of three generations of women, dealing
with the mean and sordid side of life, gloomy
and powerful.
With Silent Friends, by Richard King
(John Lane). “Richard King” is a zealous
worker in the cause of blind soldiers, and his
insight and sympathy with them in their
affliction is reflected in this book of short
essays.
'Fhe Legends of Flowers, by s Paolo Manto-
gazza (Werner Laurie). A‘translation from
the Italian. Legendary matter about flowers
familiar in field and garden, brought
together by an author well known in his
native land.
Bluejackets and Others, by Chas. Grave
(Methuen). A collection of clever drawings
of Jack aboard and abroad, with an intro-
duction by" “Bartimeus.” Their humor wall
be'appreciated even by those seafaring people
who face the perils of the waters on a ferry-
boat.
God Got One Vote, by Frederick Hazlett
Brennan (Benn). The story of how Patrick
Van Hoos, hod-carrier, born of an Irish
mother and a Dutch father in. the U.S.A.,
became a politician and a political boss.
Not a pleasant picture of the U.S.A. political
machine.
A Short History of the World, by H. G-
Wells (Heinemann). To the busy general
reader who has not time to study the author’s
“Outline of History” the present short
volume is offered “to‘ refresh and repair his
faded or fragmentary conceptions of the
great adventure of mankind.”
The Cornish Miner, by A. K. Hamilton
Jenkin' (Alien and Unwin). The story of the
Cornish miner, within its necessary limita-
tions, ’covers a long range of English his-
tory. The writer traces it back to the pre-
Roman days when only the Phoenicians from
Cadiz traded with “Cornewell.” From this
initial point the development of Cornish
mining is carried to present days.
The Macropulos Secret, by Karel Capek
(Robert Holden). The author of “R.U.R.’
and “The Insect Play” here delivers himself
of his views on immortality. A medieval
count, presented with a recipe for eternal
life, tries it on his daughter first. She
lives for 300 years, appearing in each age
as a famous singer, like Melba, perpetually
engaged in final farewells. But, unlike
Melba, she knows she can go on for ever. And
there is no joy in a life that goes on for ever.
The efficacy of the draught having evaporated
she gets possession of the recipe and burns it.
More a play to be read than acted, though
the repertorians are bound to have a hack
at it.
Bottle-Feeding of Infants, by Mrs. Henry
Haldin (H. Edgar Smithers). It was left
to a Maoriland doctor, Truby King, to make
a study of about the most important pro-
blem that civilised human beings have to
face in this age—the feeding and care of
the infant whose mother cannot give it its
natural food. King’s doctrines have reached
the Cold Country, and they are re-hashed
with variations in this little volume in con-
junction with a number of recipes, some of
them compounded with patent foods. The
writer claims to advise from actual experi-
ence as a voluntary helper in a baby clinic,
but Australasian mothers will be well
advised to stick to Truby King recipes,
which have now stood the test of nearly a
generation of practical usage.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submittedj and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
F.A.L.: Good par., but written in lead.
. ...5.8.J.: Thirty lines on the subject would have
been very welcome.... Havelock: The tobacco is good,
but you’ve filled the pipe badly.... A.M.0.: No, but
it will go deeper into debt the more its imports
exceed its exports. Wherefore the need for reducing
its imports by making the goods here... .H.MeD.:
Thanks; but not of much general interest
H.R.S.: Yes, but does that help anybody?.., .8.L.R.:
May be a few grains; but you’ll have ho chance till
you leave enough space between the lines for a
sub-editor’s pen to crawl through... .T.C.: All true;
but what about it?.. . .L.L.R.: Idea good; drawing
wouldn’t hole out in a hundred... .G.S.F.: Another
arbitration court, this time to decide what issues
of bonus shares are legitimate. Heaven forbid! .. .
Aliek: Not enough point to make a two-inch par
Anon: Jingle, which is better than doggerel, but not
much. .. . J.V.E.: One has a chance... .R.R.: Too late.
... .C.M., Fannel, Philo and J.H.: Knocked out in the
second round... .C.S.: Somebody passed over that
track only a few weeks ago... .T.M.: History of Mick
declined. Why not try something with local color?
. ...J.P.: By no means bad, though it doesn't quite
succeed. Come again... .R.R.: The lady is uninterest-
ing. .. .L.M.8.: Hero too dull altogether... .1.P.F.:
Painfully manufactured. .. .Jas. W.: Don’t wonder
your hero was “lost in a day dream.” It was
such a sleepy story... .P.V.C.: Merely an anecdote,
and worth no more than a par T.L.: Tripe....
Dry: Perishing. . . .G.G.S.: Has dramatic qualities but
the theme is repulsive. .. .1.M.: You reach a few
good lines on a very rough track. .. .R.R.: We tried
hard to laugh. .. .Waiwera: No peaches this week,
thank you. .. .M.E.M.: Meaningless... .R.L.W.: The
idea isn’t strong enough... .E.M.8.: Reminded us of
Falstaff in his last hours —it cried “God! God!
God!” and then died... .Flak: Not humorous enough.
....Geo. W.: Ghost that sang “Rose Marie” was
laid before... .S.V.D.: “The Manhandler” lacks
strength... .H.N.S.: It’s the nearest yet... .M.C.L.:
“To Music” too muse-sick... .D.E.: The Diggers’
woollen and worsted co-operative co. is doing well.
It showed a profit of £18,903 last year. .. .Corn L.:
Can’t place it... .A.W.0.: Your pickling is too salty
in flavor.... E. Ken. J.: No use sending pars, that
merely rehash what you have read. Give us your
own observations—not the other fellow’s... .Sport:
Reply-paid wires for published fancies are answered
to oblige distant readers, but “collect” messages are
barred. So are offers of money for exclusive pre-
dictions and requests for “the oil” about ponies,
hounds or goats... .T. 8.: The verse falls far below
the interest of the reminiscence.... Lucy H.: It still
fails to grip.... Bren L.: Too much of the rein-
carnated Cray. . . .T.G.M.: A mere gush of tears makes
sorry verse... .8.E.H.: It has points, but is spoilt
by protuberances.... F.L.A.: “A week later saw him
waiting.... A year afterwards found him back....
A month later Pearl came”.... An hour later your
story was on its way home... .Bow TANARUS.: Too much
“damn” and “blast”... .P.A.: We want original jokes
for “Smoke-oh.” You, with an Irish name, pinch
a Scotch joke from an English paper and try it on
an Australian editor. Black-listed for ever....
8.F.C.: Bridge-playing nightmare wasn’t a trump.
. ...A.0.P.: It’s only the beginning—or the end of
é


w


The Bulletin
Vol. 49-—No. 2508.
March 7, 1928.
SOOL HIM, BOLSH!
“The British Communist Gallagher, at the Red Army anniversary celebrations in Moscow, delivered a message purportihg to come from British workers, and declared
that he and his colleagues were ready to fight alongside the Red Army to overthrow British Imperialism. The first shot of an Anglo-Soviet war would be the death-knell
of the Empire.”
THE FIRE-EATER: “Nip his tail, Bolsh. ’E can’t hurt yer.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Alan.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office of the
Co,, 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 Jjs.; 6 months, 12s. lid.; 3 months. Is
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 0
months, 15s. Cd.; S months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all /Justness Communications to he addressed to tin
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to IJox 2521 11.15.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Hut
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission ol MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in the Main Hall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-71) Furring don
Street, London, E.C.Jj; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.);
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” iH-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Uhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni Neivs
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 217 Hastings
Street West, Vancouver, B.C.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and 42nd Street , New York City; Hotaling’s
Neivs Agency, 203 West Ijlst Street. New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle. Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 70k Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The, New Orleans News Man. 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.: The Wide World News
Stand, 5414 South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Walter News Agency, Box 573 Arcade Station, Los
Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China.— Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, S.S.- — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy; M.
Atmaram and Sons, 44 Chatham Street, Fort Colombo :
A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York Street, Fori
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby .
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising: Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.4.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) : — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji :
lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: l/oz. to Iooz., lid.; each
additional 4 0Z -. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 20z.. Id.
ẁ
THE MURRAY VALLEY ADVENTURE.
The Murray Valley irrigation and naviga-
tion scheme has been under review at Can-
berra by a conference of the four part-
ners, N. S. Wales, Victoria, S. Australia and
the Commonwealth. The enterprise, which
is governed by the Murray Waters Com-
mission, has been under way all through
the post-war period of dear loans, expensive
materials and high wages. It has cost some
£5,200,000. It was going to cost £14,000,000,
which indicates, though not very definitely,
how much is still undone. Now it has been
decided to saw the great work off at
£8,500,000. These amounts represent
acknowledged capital expenditure only;
but a little-considered compound-interest
problem creeps in. For seven consecutive
years (and the .current one will make eight)
interest on external loans has been wholly
paid out of the proceeds of new external
loans and has itself become interest-bear-
ing external debt. This introduces an
element of uncertainty into the precise cost,
as distinguished from the ostensible cost,
of any asset which is built on borrowed
money; and most assets are.
* * * *
The conference on Hughes’s grandiose
undertaking had matter for consideration.
The three State partners are in a bog of
difficulties, comprising railway deficits and
assorted troubles. N. S. Wales, the one
most favored by Nature, has even decided
to put the deficit handed down by the late
Slang-Whang Ministry into the public
debt for a while, and it will have no lack
of company there. At June, 1926, there
were five State overdrafts (£6,534,801) lying
loose in banks, while three more
(£7,161,274) had been added to the respec-
tive public debts in the shape of Treasury
bills, and affairs have grown much worse
since 1926. The Federal Government, which
has been scattering the phantom millions
of its imagination in road-making and
house-building devices, is so much in
trouble itself that it had started making
serious cuts in its loan expenditure even
before the Murray waters conference. Its
credit has been strained and shows definite
signs of not being immortal. The bits of
the irrigation scheme which are really work-
ing show indifferent results, and it is appa-
rent that only a limited selection of
vegetables can be grown for export with
profit under such a dead-weight of mort-
gage. A sanguine and unquestioning reli-
ance on dried fruits pervaded the situation
for a while, but now the dried-fruit market
shows signs of being overstocked. So it is
proposed to omit 30 of the locks (22 on
the Murray and eight on the Murrumbid-
gee), and to do with less irrigation and
much less navigation than was originally
intended. The locks are not to be defi-
nitely abandoned, but indefinitely hung up.
The curtailed programme is to be com-
pleted in five years unless new difficulties
get in the way. Confidence is expressed
that, the stump of the undertaking, if care-
fully watered, will brir*? forth fruit in due
season.
* * * *
The furnishing of Australia with a per-
manent, large-scale navigable river was an
item of the programme which led to much
dissension between the navigators (princi-
pally South Australians) and the pure irri-
gationists. A problem which intrudes itself
is whether there is enough water in this
land of uncertain rainfall and high evapor-
ation to make the Murray a dead-sure
river, after irrigating sufficiently to supply
cargo for the river to carry. Australia
didn’t start with very many goods-carrying
advantages. Big ocean steamers go 1000
miles up the St. Lawrence when the ice
season is off, and when a little more canal-
making is done they are expected to break
into the Great Lakes and wander about
one-third of the distance across America.
Further south the Mississippi system com-
prises 13,912 miles of navigable water. Aus-
tralia began river-making with very limited
resources. Yet the necessity to grow, on an
lOU basis, more vegetables for export in
hired ships to very distant markets was not
glaringly evident when the Murray vision
burst on the public gaze. The work might
well have been postponed till a number of
good but grossly neglected ports were made
available and transformed into money-
earning assets, especially as the necessary
railway connections were, in many cases,
short and easy. The completion of the
South-to-North line across Australia was
also much more urgent and more promising.
If Australia had attended first to the jobs
on hand and left its dream of Elysian pad-
docks till later, it might have approached
the latter when the Commonwealth had
more population, more money of its own,
and possibly more commonsense. But W.
M. Hughes had a quaint tendency to do
the least obvious thing first, or rather to
do half of it, and then rush away to some-
thing else. In this respect his successor
resembles him. So Australia includes among
its assets an unfinished river, an incomplete
South-to-North railway which made a start
after long years of suspension and is stop-
ping again for lack of money, an East-to-
West line with the same old breaks of gauge,
a crop of unused ports, and some vast and
nebulous housing, road-making and migra-
tion projects which loom up vague and im-
posing like Stonehenge in a fog.
ONE OF THE PEACEMAKERS.
Speaking as a delegate to Melbourne Trades
Hall Council, which refused to have any-
thing to do with the Prime Minister’s indus-
trial peace conference, The Bulletin’s
amiable but irrational friend Bob Ross
said that the Bruce proposal was “simply an
attempt to make it easy to introduce bribes
to the working class in the form of piece-
work and bonus systems.” “The weapon of
industrial unrest,” he declared, “was the
only means whereby the wmrking class could
fight the forces arrayed against it.” If these
depressing sentiments were the sentiments
of trade-unionism, there would be no hope
for trade-unionism, and none for Australia
until it removed trade-unionism from its
path. Fortunately there are trade-union
leaders who think and act differently. One
of them recently published his views in the
Sydney Labor Daily, of all papers. His
remarkably interesting article was written
in the first person, and he evidently wrote
the heading also—“ Give and Take, the
Secret of Success.”
* * * *
This trade-union leader said he believed
in round-table conferences and welcomed the
one proposed by Bruce —“a very fine move
which should be endorsed by all lovers of
peace on both sides.” His union had tried
arbitration courts and wages boards with
disappointing results. Somehow the pro-
ceedings “always left a nasty taste in our
mouths.” The men were so dissatisfied with
conditions approved of by such tribunals
that “I could not tell from one day to
another whether or not they would cease
work.” In 1920, however, they abandoned
arbitration of the litigious sort for concilia-
tion committees; in effect, “round-table
conferences with the employers.” The change
was immediately successful and the effects
were not transient; the industry had since
been “working more peaceably than for the
past 40 years, to my knowledge.” The men
had received three separate increases of
wages, “all got round the table,” together
with grants of concessions and privileges—
extended annual leave, more sick and acci-
dent pay, a five-day week and the like—
which had been refused, in some cases, by
the Court. And although labor-saving
devices had been installed from time to
time, the membership of the union had in-
creased from 2457 to 3073 in seven years of
negotiated peace, while the great progress
made by the industry had naturally been
beneficial to investors and consumers. Each
party to the conciliation policy went to the
periodical meetings “prepared to throw all
its cards on the table and to give and take.”
It would be necessary for Bruce’s delegates
to deliberate in the same spirit. If their
conference were successful, as he hoped it
would be, “the workers should gain by secur-
ing more constant employment, which means
a regular wage coming into the home every
week instead of a casual wage, as at present.”
* * * *
The good unionist who thus proclaims his
faith in industrial peace, and works for it,
is Mr. S. Rawlin. He is a person of some
consequence in the trade-union world, being
secretary of the N.S.W. branch of the Fede-
rated Gas Employees’ Union and president
of the Federation. Financially, as might be
expected, his union is one of the solidest in
N. S. Wales, and it always has something to
spare for members in distress, which is more
than can be said for a lot of other organisa-
tions, although their revenues are big
enough. In 1925, the latest full year for
which the Registrar of Trade-unions pub-
lishes returns, the Gas Employees paid
£3614 in contributions and received £1169 in
benefits; management and other expenses
amounted to £2583 and funds at the end of
the year to £5890. By contrast, members of
the N.S.W. branch of the Australian Rail-
ways Union paid £6102 in contributions and
received no benefits; management and other
expenses mopped up £6312, funds at the end
of the year being a beggarly £960. Yet the
name Rawlin is almost unknown to the
general body of newspaper readers. So much
space is reserved for blatant work-stoppers,
whose capacity for mischief is thereby in-
creased, that there is little or none left for
men who don’t advertise but do their jobs
faithfully and try to make unionism a con-
structive and preservative force. If the
papers reversed this foolish policy, industrial
peace would be much less difficult to attain.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Bloat Continues.
“ln addressing members of the Millions Club,
Mr. Michael Terry, who has made several expedi-
tions into North Australia, said that in his judgment
there was a definite obligation to do something with
the North, and the problem was less hopeless than
some people thought.’’— Daily paper.
The nicely-shaded population map which
the Federal Statistician issues with his
annual volume shows blank spaces in the
west and south also; for though popula-
tion arrives in a handsome way, both by
birth and immigration, it doesn’t diffuse
to any extent. On the east coast, where
there are three States and three capital
cities, a fairly dense population spreads as
far up as latitude 23. On the west, where
there is only one State and one capital, it
makes a very poor effort to straggle as far
as latitude 30. The Statistician recently
made another of his annual efforts, and the
results compare with those of some previous
years, selected at random, in a rather inter-
esting fashion. The mainland States com-
pressed into their capitals the following pro-
portions of their people at the dates
quoted:—
Out of Each 10,000 State Inhabitants.
1901. 1907. 1919. 1926.
Sydney 3590 3679 4138 4560
Melbourne 4113 4311 4967 5517
Brisbane .. .. . . 2373 2504 2614 3109
Adelaide .. .. . . 4475 4541 5482 5594
Perth . . .. . 1970 1926 4281 4864
Six capitals . . . . 3621 4203 4663
When it is considered that the peopling
of the vacant spaces and the placing of
inhabitants on the land has been one of the
chief topics of political conversation for
years, the results can only be described as
grotesque. They imply that before long
half the white population of the Common-
wealth will be located in six State capitals,
and more than half later on.
And the difficulty of permanently fixing
population outside the State metropolis, the
spot where politicians sit fooling with
the loan money, appears to be as difficult
in one place and climate as in another.
Westralia owns 611.920 square miles inside
the temperate zone, which makes it a bigger
landholder in those parts than any of its
neighbors; yet with all this area available
it beats the very bad average of the six
cities for centralisation. It has also to be
considered that Perth is the smallest main-
land capital when measured by acres, and
that the Westralian population isn’t im-
pelled to the city life because of its manu-
facturing habits. In fact, the value of its
manufacturing output in proportion to the
number of inhabitants is the smallest
among the mainland States. New York
State is a little more than half the size
of Victoria, and New York City is the
great commercial centre for a population
of well over 100 millions. Yet great New
York City doesn’t congest into itself so
large a proportion of the population of
> : nle New York State as Adelaide and
Melbourne do of their State populations.
The desire to avoid the creation of new
States and ports and centres of population
has become a disease, and this country
holds the patent of it, and no one outside
seeks to infringe the same. If institutions
of the Millions Club type interested them-
selves in the matter they might do some-
thing to spread the conviction that there
is nothing to be gained by being the prize
eccentricity among continents; but there
is a sad lack of originality about the
Millionaires.
4
Forest Fires and Safety Measures.
Two years have passed since the big
Victorian forest fires of 1926—tw0 years in
which little has been done to make the
lives and property of forest dwellers any
safer. It has been often said that another
fire would not trouble the burnt-out areas
for many a year to come. Yet only in
mid-January a fire broke out at Powell-
town, and for four days menaced what was
left of the State forest, along with the
numerous bush-camps and little settlements
in its path. Upwards of 100 men, aided by
the entire absence of wind, held the fire
in check, but it was only finally controlled
by a timely fall of rain. Given a day
similar to Feb. 14, 1926, and no power on
earth could have stopped the fire; then we
should have had a repetition of the holo-
caust of two years ago—settlements, mills,
and forests laid waste, and another death
roll.
Nothing will ever make the forests safe
and free from fires, but a very little outlay
would make the settlements and camps
reasonably safe for their dwellers. At pre-
sent every little village and log-camp is
walled in up to the back doors with a dense
growth of scrub—a veritable death-trap.
The Forests Commission has done nothing
to make the position in this respect safer,
apart from cutting a few breaks that begin
anywhere and end nowhere. Not until a
break is cut round every camp and village
in the forest—a break of not less than two
or three hundred yards in width, and kept
clean from month to month—will the
forest dweller have a reasonable chance
of saving life and property; and the
Forests Commission should, as landlord, see
that it is done.
4
Australia, Pro-British or Pro-American?
Dear Bulletin, —I do not wish to waste
more space proving that I know more of his-
tory or political economy than Mr. Bedford.
Your readers can look up their textbooks,
make their inquiries and comparisons and
draw their own conclusions. It will be
found that Britain’s work in Egypt, Soudan,
West, South and East Africa, Palestine,
Mesopotamia, India, Federated Malay
States and Polynesia will make anything
the U.S.A. has done in Cuba, the Philippines,
Hawaii or Central America look small, good
as most of the Yankees’ efforts are.
I have accused Mr. Bedford of being
anti-British and pro-American, and the
U.S.A. of being as imperialistic as any other
great nation. He has written nothing (B.
2/8/’2B) to refute my charges, but burks
the issue with a lot of unnecessary good
advice to me and misfire remarks about
“imported imperialists” who “expect
America to run to their relief.” The
“Matt Lowes” are quite good Australians
and accustomed to do their own fighting.
Their propaganda is only concerned with
fair play and a lively zeal for Austrahas
best interests. It is not likely to “embroil
the U.S.A. and Britain,” unless American
“international prestige” become so tender
of criticism that reprisal must be taken, or
until pro-Americanism in Australia leads to
a Yankee attempt to run this country-
Neither condition is likely to be fulfilled.
By all means let us remove the prefer-
ences to demi-semi-English goods. Australia
does not exist to benefit a few London
packers or local importers. The L.S.A.
enjoy in Australia a huge trade advantage
for which they give practically nothing. 1
see nothing “silly” in my assumption that
this advantage exists largely by virtue ot
and is enhanced by the “unreasoning propa-
ganda of our Bedfords” so long as that
propaganda is pro-American. The thing i=
too obvious. I suspect Mr. Bedford ot
taking a surfeit of Saturday Evening Pos-t.
which paper has lately had many articles
booming the U.S.A. and disparaging Britain.
I suggest that he read Owen W ister s -
Straight Deal” and the chapter oi
Chesterton’s “A Napoleon of Nottrng xiili
by way of correcting his political and his-
torical astigmatism.—Yours, etc., Matt
Lowe.
r —
The Office of Coroner.
The importance of the duties that, on occa-
sion, are performed by the coroner was lhus-


trated by the Sydney Harbor accident to
the Greycliffe. It involved a long and
searching inquiry that placed a heavy
burden of responsibility on the presiding
coroner, who in this instance was a qualified
stipendiary magistrate. There is, however,
no special qualification for the office of
coroner in Australia. Provided he has the
necessary educational equipment for a more
or less intelligent performance of his
duties, no further test of fitness is required.
There are in a new country practical con-
siderations which make it difficult to exact
a higher standard.
Much the same practice existed until
recently in England. The only special quali-
fication for the office there was that, in the
case of county coroners, they should be
holders of land in the county, an obsolete
survival of feudal sentiment; otherwise only
considerations of average education and
good repute were taken into account. Last
year, however, due probably to the stressed
importance of the office with the increasing
number of accidents and of deaths by vio-
lence or negligence, the English Parliament
passed an amending Act by which it was
provided, inter alia, that a coroner should
be a barrister, solicitor or qualified medical
practitioner of not less than five years’
standing; also that he must be paid by
salary and not by fee. In a densely popu-
lated community such a system is feasible,
but in a scattered population such as ours
it would be, if not absolutely impossible, at
least very costly. Its adoption in England
may, however, have the indirect effect of
calling attention to the importance of a
careful selection of holders of the office.
Another significant amendment in the
English law, due no doubt to the toll on
life now levied by the motor-car, is that a
jury must be summoned in cases where
death has been caused by an accident arising
out of the use of a vehicle in a street or
public highway. Here apparently the object
is to remove the finding beyond individual
prejudice or weakness; for even a coroner
may have a weakness for speeding or a
fierce hatred of the road-hog.
4
In a Little Country Town.
“Far North”: “Ces” (B. 22/2/’2B) is evi-
dently one of the. Big City philosophers
who can see at a glance why young people
leave country towns and don’t come back.
In truth the cause lies far deeper than the
fact that “country towns are not attractive
to young people because they are not made
attractive.” The example he describes must
have been a very poor specimen of a coun-
try town. Let him take a trip up to the
north of N. S. Wales and have a look at
Tamworth, Moree, Armidale, Inverell and
Glen Innes. In these he will find libraries
with thousands of books, and the picture-
theatres in some of them would not dis-
grace any of the city’s suburbs. Golf,
tennis, cricket and football clubs are there,
anxious for young players to join up. All
these towns have banished the “unlighted
corners of streets” with up-to-date electric
lighting plants. Every few weeks the gee-
gees furnish opportunities for those who
love that kind of sport to lose their money.
The “School of Arts,” as well as providing
all the recent as well as the best literature,
encourages the “community spirit” with in-
door games, from billiards to dominoes.
Gun and rifle clubs are part of the local
equipment to keep the young men enter-
tained. Inverell, which is the headquarters of
the north-western rifle clubs, a few weeks
ago held a prize rifle-shoot, the programme
being the most liberal with cash of any
rifle association out of Sydney. Holiday
and week-end fishing and shooting excur-
sions are another form of sport the youth
can indulge in if he feels that way.
“Ces” knows little about the causes of
youth leaving home when he claims that
the lack of university lectures in country
towns helps the exodus. Not one lad in
20 is interested in such lectures. The
knowledge he is thirsting for is where he
can get a job. And the fact that he can’t
get one in his country town is what sends
him to the city. There are no secondary
industries apart from a flour-mill, a saw-
mill or a butter factory. These are easily
supplied with hands. The boot
factories, furniture factories, etc., which
existed at one time have almost all dis-
appeared. The differential railway rates of
the ’eighties and ’nineties wiped them
out. They are all now to be found grouped
round the One Big City. “Where the car-
case is there will the eagles be gathered
together.” Where the woi’k is the young
people of the country will seek it. No
“tackling the question with the com-
munity club as the basis,” as “Ces” advo-
cates, will have the slightest effect on the
position. I admit that the community spirit
is a commendable one; but until “Ces”
can guarantee the community work, his
specific is so much hot air.
I happen to know something of what the
trouble is, as only last week I gave tw T o
stalwart young men, sons of two of the
oldest farming families in my district, re-
ferences to help them get into the police
force or on the trams. There was nothing
at home for them to do. Also, by some fool
enactment or award, most young Austra-
lians are forbidden to learn a trade. When
one of them asks you for a job in the
country his inquiry is for ringbarkinv or
suckering, fencing or burr-cutting! Now
Lang’s precious Workmen’s Compensation
Act cuts him out of even a lot of this work.
What is there left for him to do but make
for the city?
The Great Disarmament Spider.
The Soviet spider lately turned up again
with even more plausible and elaborate
proposals for disarmament than those pre-
sented last year. The objectionable. Litivi-
noff was the bearer of the document, and
the preamble thereof was as follows:
“Desirous to safeguard general peace, and
considering that the existence and increase
of armed forces constitute an immense danger
and bear a germ of fresh inevitable armed
conflagrations, we solemnly acknowledge that
the only true method of safeguarding peace
is a general complete abolition of all armed
forces.”
Then the scheme unfolded itself: —
“The disbandment within four years of all
military, naval and air forces.
“The complete scrapping and destruction
of same. , . . ....
“The repeal of all laws relating to military
and kindred matters. .
“Prohibition of the writing of anything
about war, and the obliteration, so tar as
possible, of what has been already written.
Even then there was a dead bee in the
ointment, and the disarmament proposals
weren’t complete. So the sea is to be divided
into 16 zones, and these are to be policed
by the adjacent nations with vessels not
excee ding 3000
tons, and armed
ostensibly with not
more than two guns
and 20 rifles apiece.
The crews are to
be volunteers or
alleged volunteers.
Those scraps of
almost- enclosed
waters, the Baltic
and Black seas,
which would fall
more or less under
Russian jurisdic-
tion, are to con-
stitute two zones
(one each), and
the Arctic Ocean,
in which Russia has
a half-interest, is
to be two zones,
making four. The
vast Pacific, with
all its possible ele-
ments of colored
and oth'er disturb-
ance, will also con-
stitute four zones.
The Bolshevik thus
allots himself a
good share of what
naval armaments
are to remain.
The proposal to
abolish armaments,
instead of severely
restricting them, is
unconvincing. So
is the proposal to
abolish the teach-
ing of the military
art in the hope that
it may be forgot-
ten. If the desired
result could be
achieved it would
not abolish war,
and it might not
even diminish it.
But it would make
war a cheap pro-
ceeding (cheap
enough to be taken
on at any moment),
fought with crude
weapons, in which
the biggest and
most ferocious men
and the biggest
number of them would have all the
chances. The Soviet mob has the numbers,
and though brave enough they are a subser-
vient horde and easy to be urged into battle.
Moreover, Russia is vast. It is to a great
extent closed against visitors except those of
the real Red hue, and armies which would
be serviceable enough in a disarmed world
could be organised there, or retained there,
quite unobtrusively. And so complete is
the censorship that information, especi-
ally from the backblocks, doesn’t leak out
much. Even Trotsky, who knew all the
workings of the machine —who had, in fact,
been the machine —had, in his decline, to
have his manifestoes smuggled across the
border and printed in Germany.
The Bolshevik Government tried to run
a career of ferociously brutal conquest in
Hungary, Poland, Estonia and China, and
found that its military apparatus was short
of the necessary. So, with its habitual bland
clumsiness, it proposes that other States
should bring their apparatus down to its
level, or lower for preference. And the Red
elements all the world over will hail the
proposal as a pure and sincere offer, which
should be accepted with enthusiasm, and to
reject which would be mortal sin.
Militarism, though bad enough, is not the
worst thing imaginable. And military pre-
caution is better than being taken unawares
and passed out of the list of civilised races.
*
Bruce-Page, Housebuilders.
The Bruce-Page Government’s plan for
spending £20,000,000 in 10 years on the
erection of middle-class houses affords an
instance of the too-common experience that
the prospectus outdoes the performance.
The money is to be provided from a percen-
tage of the increases in Commonwealth
Savings Bank deposits, and a percentage of
the repayments of advances, but mainly by
the ordinary dubious device of borrowing.
The houses, are to be for those well above
the bread-and-butter line, for the scheme is
not to interfere with existing State instru-
mentalities for providing working-man
homes Now in Victoria the State Savings
Bank will build a £l3OO brick house or a
£lOOO wooden house, for a deposit of £oo.
The maximum Commonwealth advance is
to be £1875, on a 10 per cent, deposit, so
there is not much left for the Common-
wealth to do. It is just as well.
But this magniloquent scheme is now
being combined with new-born and undis-
closed meanness. The Treasurer has in-
formed the War Service Homes Commis-
sioner and the State instrumentalities which
are building homes for Billjim, married or
about to marry, that their expenditure is to
be restricted. The limit in these cases must
be £800; if the soldier wants a better house
he must find the balance of the money him-
self. In most cases he has no balance, and
so has to be satisfied with an £BOO house.
The effect of the Treasurer’s instruction is
that applicants will have to go without
houses for the next four months, so far as
Commonwealth money is concerned.
However, the £20,000,000 scheme, though
it may be of little service to anybody, is
good enough bait for the party hook, and
WHY STATE ENTERPRISE FAILS.
“A speaker at the A.W.U. conference said public ownership had never
been given a chance. Too many jobs for men who had been failures were
found in State enterprises.”
THE ELEPHANT MAN: “Sacked, are you? Never mind, old chap.
There’s room on the elephant.”
that is the chief end of country-road schemes
and city housing. Incidentally, the losses on
soldiers’ homes are insignificant; but, then,
so is the soldier —to-day.
♦
The Hot-Air and Coal Trade.
The northern (N.S.W.) coalfield has been
talking a great deal lately—as a rule, con-
temptuously —about “holes in the ground.”
The Miners’ Federation wants to close these
small mines, as they are declared to be a
menace to the industry, because they pro-
duce cheap coal and thereby secure the
trade which, the M.F. contends, should go to
collieries that have to maintain larger staffs,
and whose overhead expenses are greater,
and for several other utterly irrelevant
reasons.
The facts are that most of these “holes”
have been in operation for many years and
the working conditions generally are better
than they are in the big places. The workers
are a good class of men, mostly of the in-
dependent type, and no more disposed to
be the tools of crafty union bosses than of
soulless owners. The “holes” have a regular
market for their product and as a result the
men have constant work. Certainly there
are no fat pay envelopes to flash around,
but the men know with a degree of cer-
tainty how they will stand financially nearly
six months ahead, and that is saying a whole
lot. None of the employees of these “holes”
seem in a hurry to quit; but quite a lot
of others seem eager to find a place in them.
The effect of their output on the larger
mines is infinitesimal; though if it were not
so it would not affect the argument in the
least. On the other hand, we have a small
army of contented workers, mostly of the
house-owning class, and the consumer gets
the benefit of a cheaper coal. So far from
being things to condemn, these are surely
things to approve, and the fact that the
bosses of the Miners’ Federation disapprove
of them shows quite plainly that those
gentlemen are the public’s enemies.
Thus far the Australian community has
been very kind to the industry. It has
again and again permitted owners and
miners to come together and agree to take
another slice out of the general public, and
cut the slice up between them. There must
be a limit to that, and it surely has been
reached. Coalmining is a key industry,
and in the future, when it comes to fixing
a price, the third party must be heard f r 2, m -
That will bring the industry to earth, tor
a long while past it has been in the clouds.
4
The Menace of the Proprietary Company.
In Victoria anyone may form a ‘com-
pany” in which he holds all the shares
save one, and that one may be held by his
wife or his typist, according to taste.
While fortune favors him, all is well; for,
as the principal and practically the only
shareholder, the bulk of the profits are
transferred to his private pocket. And once
there, it’s good-bye to them so far as the
creditors of the “company” are concerned!
If, on the other hand, he should fail, not
a penny more from his private purse is
lost than whatever nominal value he chose
to put on the shares when forming the
“company.” More, lie may even make limi-
self a secured creditor of the “company
for any money he “lends” it, and get it
back out of any assets there may be left,
in preference to outside unsecured creditors.
Of course, the obvious remedy is to refuse
to do business with proprietary companies;
but in these days that is as impracticable
as it is obvious.
All this is bad enough; but, like most
time-honored abuses, it has been more or
less tolerated as too firmly established to
be changed. Now a more vicious adapta-
tion of the law’s elastic provisions is begin-
ning to show its head. More and more the
big limited companies are becoming mere
“holding” concerns in proprietary com-
panies, formed by them for the purpose of
running their various businesses. And, as
the kindly law relating to proprietary com-
panies does not compel them to make their
balance-sheets public, the investor in the
holding company knows absolutely nil as
to what’s happening to the show he’s got
his money in. That is, of course, unless
he’s one of the fortunate few who are “in
the know.” Shareholders were too much at
the mercy of their directors before; but with
the spread of this latest fashion, Heaven
help them at the hands of any unscru-
pulous men who chance to get control of
their companies!
♦
A Sun-kissed Nation.
Australians, according to Prof. Chapman
of Sydney Uni., are developing racial char-
acteristics markedly different from those of
the parent British stock, because they are
nurtured by the sun. There certainly aie
differences, and they become more obvious
with each generation. In physical build,
in mental outlook and in speech the Aus-
tralian-grown Briton shows the influences
of his environment, and the differences be-
come more marked in the northern States,
which are nearest the sun. Maorilanders,
who, as a race, have been through practi-
cally the same “colonial experience” as Aus-
tralians, exhibit little sign of divergence
from the ancestral type- Visitors from the
Land of Ferns are frequently mistaken in
Australia for English folk.
By all historical and ethnological pre-
cedents, a cultured race in a warm climate
acquires, above all other attributes, a sense
of beauty—in form, color, music and the
written word. In ancient times the Greeks
and the Romans bore out the truth of the
rule, and the descendants of the Romans
at least, still occupy a proud position in
the world of Art. And there is evidence
that Australia is cultivating its artistic
perceptions, even though a scant centuiv
and a half covers the whole history of
Australian colonisation.
The stirrings are faint as yet and the
manifestations often crude. But we have
built up a national school of pictorial art,
and laid the foundations, at least, of a
school of national literature. The faculty
of expression is there, and there is a great
wealth of natural beauty in the Continent
to draw forth the desire for expression—not
confined to inanimate things. Perhaps even
those bathing-girl competitions, the bad
taste of which repels the fastidious, are a
symbol of the trend. The arising of an
artistic sense is expressed notably in archi-
tecture. Sydney may never be another
Rome, though built on 70 hills, nor Mel-
bourne another Athens, but they already
show an inclination to develop into beautiful
and gracious cities,
♦ :
The question of making a convicted
prisoner pay the costs of the trial
has been reviewed in South Aus. by Judge
Parsons and done with great commonsense.
He found that such an order had been made
in that State a few times, mainly by Judges
Gordon and Homburg, once by Way in his
40 years of Chief Justiceship, but never by
Boucaut or Bundey in their long terms of
office, or by any of the present occupants of
the Bench. The practice for the future
should be not to make such an order “until
the prosecution satisfies me that the prisonei
has adequate means to comply with it, hav-
ing regard to whatever debts he may owe
and the liabilities he ought to meet, which
should take priority.” Which, his Hcmoi
added, means that successful applications
will be very few, and 19 pending ones were
wiped out in a body.


The Day You Buy SHELL MOTOR OIL
B©9i6a
0-m
: ' .Ift !
gsm :
i ,s:fi
6 ‘i
your car receives a new lease of life .
Motorists everywhere are changing over to Shell Motor
Oils—proving for themselves in every way that Shell
Oils have given motor lubrication a new meaning.
*.«» SHELL Oils
(guaranteed from Sealed Equipment
POLITICAL
POINTS
Australia buys enormously from J. Bull.
It purchases much more from him than he
purchases in return (in 1923-24 the balance
in his favor was over £18,000,000). In the
circumstances the continuous complaints of
ignorant or hard-lying Freetrade persons
and papers in the U.K. that our tariff is
“prohibitive,” which implies that we buy
nothing, begin to be resented, especially as
there is no crusade against Canada, which
is an unsatisfactory customer by compari-
son. It may be only a passing phase, and
the supercilious folk who throw their slabs
of raw Cobdenism at this country may be
few; still they make enough noise for many.
Many Nationalists in Wollondilly (N.S.W.)
objected to the Nat.-Fed. pre-selectionists
shoving local men out of the way in the
interest of Mark Morton, and absented them-
selves from Saturday’s poll in consequence.
Mainly for this reason the Nationalist vote
fell from 7249 to 5080. But Chalker, the
Labor man, could score only 3630, as against
4342 in October, when George Fuller was his
opponent, so relatively he did no better. Yet
the official oi'gan warned the other
crowd to prepare for a shock, since “every
Labor Assemblyman has been in the thick of
the fight,” while “the campaigning of our
indefatigable State leader. Mr. Lang, has
been strenuous, wonderful!”
The queer case of the Abrahams brothers
has been mentioned in Parliament, after
many months. Being bowled out in income-
tax frauds, the notorious brethren agreed
to pay the Commonwealth £500,000 and
costs —the half-million was far in excess of
the amount they gained, for the time being,
by cheating. Two of the three are now
abroad (a Commonwealth official has been
sacked for helping one of them to get away) ;
the Commonwealth has received security for
payment of £250,000 and is asking for a
High Court judgment to ensure recovery of
the rest. It is an extraordinary affair alto-
gether, and Parliament is naturally curious
as to why there has been no criminal prose-
cution.
Victorian Forests Minister Beckett is
making a serious effort to ensure that Aus-
tralia shall grow its own wattle. The in-
creasing dependence on South Africa for
supplies strikes Beckett as ridiculous.
George Buchanan, the expert who was
brought here to report on harbors and other
matters, with an understanding that no notice
would be taken of his recommendations unless
they suited the people in office, has made a
few remarks about us in the National
Review. A cabled summary says:—
He emphasises that the roads and railways in
Australia, and especially the ports, are below the
standard of progressive countries. The fact that
ports have been developed in unsuitable positions
while fine natural harbors have been neglected makes
it understandable why there are high freight rates.
The harbor policy of Australia strikes most
people as preposterous except those who run
Australia.
No effect has been given to the resolution
of Vic. Assembly that a Supreme Court
Judge be appointed to decide what would be
adequate salaries for members of that House.
With retrenchment beginning in the Railway
Department, it is not the season to take
such a proposal by the hand. Things may
look better a week or two before the House
reassembles, and then something may be
done hurriedly.
Australia has a small indirect interest in
the affairs of Roumania, which has a shaky
dynasty at Bucharest and the Bolsh on the
Bessarabian border. After the Germans de-
parted with most of the grain, some Aus-
tralian wheat found its way to the land of
Theodore’s forefathers, and a confiding
official acepted payment in Roumanian Gov-
ernment bonds. Interest amounting to
£5085 came along last year, and each of the
four wheat-growing States got a share (West-
ralia’s was £666 11s.), but bonds nominally
worth £120,000 still repose in the office of
the ingenuous Ryrie.
The political price of Country Prog, sup-
port is becoming so expensive that sooner
or later the Vic. Labor Ministry will revolt.
Apart from the undue pressure exerted by
the Progs., the feelings of Country Labor
members have to be considered. The Gov-
ernment’s dependence on Glowery’s vote, for
instance, makes Glowery a more important
figure than, say, Arthur Hughes, and this
can’t be pleasing to Hughes.
The N.S.W. deficit is expected to be down
to about 1| million by June 30, and the
harassed Bavin proposes to put that into the
Public Debt, there to rest for a while. There
will then be something approaching 20 mil-
lions of State deficit lying around, which
isn’t far short of the accumlated State sink-
ing funds and is possibly more real. West-
ralia’s shortage is between six and seven
millions, which is close on a year’s revenue.
Wcstralia has kept its revenue below expen-
diture for many years, apparently as a
protest against that constitutional proviso
which calls for a sinking fund on all its
debts. Most Perth politicians resent that
scrap of attempted solvency as a wrong done
to their country in infancy.
Judge Beeby is now the only member of
the three-man Arbitration Court who advo-
cates the 44-hour week all round. When
the Amalgamated Engineers’ case was men-
tioned the other day he stated that “a self-
contained industry which was not subject
to serious foreign competition should readily
adapt itself to a shorter working week with-
out any added production cost necessitating
increased prices.” The Government rail-
ways and tramways are the prize example
of an industry which isn’t subject to foreign
competition, for train and tram rides are
among the few things which are never im-
ported ; and the railways and tramways have
conspicuously failed to “readily adapt them-
selves to a shorter working week without
added production costs,” whether they should
do so or not. And his Honor stolidly refuses
to explain how to work the miracle.
For once the Sydney Labor bosses have
done the appropriate thing. The maddest
and merriest selection-ballot of the year—the
one in which Silent Bill Lambert, M.11.R.
for West Sydney, is engaged with Blather-
skite Beasley, of the Trades and Labor
Council —is to be concluded on the night of
the 17th of March, so that everyone can
join in.
Wage-payers in the engineering trade
smiled wearily when they were assured by
Judge Beeby that a reduction of S-J per cent,
in working hours should not necessitate in-
creased prices in the case of an industry
“not subject to serious foreign competition.”
Class XII in the trade returns covers
machinery and metal manufactures. Imports
of these were worth 25 millions in 1921-22,
and rose steadily to 51£ millions in 1926-27.
The small export business was 7| millions
in 1925-26 and 6| in 1926-27. The whole
wool exports (worth about 60 millions last
year) don’t much more than pay the foreign
machinery and metal manufactures bill
nowadays. It is a lamentable case of work
undone and money and opportunity fooled
away, because of the borrowing and im-
porting and hour-shortening habits.
In two and a half months of recess the
Vic. Hogan Government_has done little more
than talk railway retrenchment and mark-
time. So that there may be something in
hand to start with in June the Parlia-
mentary draftsmen have been directed to
lick a few innocuous ideas into legislative
shape. Lemmon, Minister for Labor, who
almost wept when the Uppish House threat-
ened to throttle his Apprenticeship Bill, has
been tartly reminded that 10 weeks have
fled since it was assented to, and it has not
yet been brought into operation. The Coun-
try ’Bus Act, which aims at reducing what
is regarded as unfair road competition with
the railways, was said to be an urgent piece
of legislation, but upwards of two months
elapsed before it was proclaimed.
Albert (“Jupp”) Gardiner, who has been
a Labor politician for 37 years, off and on,
has been refused endorsement as a candidate
for the Senate by the gang now in control
for “reflecting on the delegates to the
‘Unity’ Conference.” Miss May Matthews
has also been disqualified “in view of her
having taken the trip to America on the
Bruce industrial mission in defiance of the
wish of the trade-union movement.” Gar-
diner, it seems, said what he thought of the
“Unity” Conference, which brought about
“unity” by expelling its opponents whole-
sale, in a letter to one Moate, then
about to be rejected by a State constituency,
and the letter was trotted out against him
when Moate developed Senate ambitions him-
self. Donald Grant, of I.W.W. notoriety,
has been approved of as a Senate candidate
by the unspeakable crowd which has banned
Gardiner, a Labor Senator for 17 years
and a Labor Assemblyman in 1891.
The Prime Minister’s well-meant endeavor
to bring representative employers and em-
ployees together in friendly conference seems
to be fizzling out. One lot of Trades Hall
bosses offered to confer provided Bruce
first made an absolute surrender by promis-
ing to leave the Federal Arbitration law
unamended. Another crowd sent a point-
blank refusal, its view of the situation being
expounded by Bob Ross :
The weapon of industrial unrest is the only means
the working class has of fighting the forces arrayed
against it. The proposal is simply an attempt to
make it easy to introduce bribes to the working class
in the form of piecework and bonus systems.
It is difficult to deal with leaders whose
desire is to keep their followers fn a state
of misery "and consequent unrest, and who
object to them getting benefits. A doctor who
believes in keeping his patients in sleepless
agitation for their own good is a rare speci-
men.
The Commonwealth Government is not
bothering about a redistribution of seats
before the next election, although Henty
(Vic.), at latest advices, had 22,137 more
electors than Ballarat (35,146) and 21,396
more than Bendigo, and there were anoma-
lies as bad or worse in other St \s. This
let-it-rip attitude may cost the Bruce-Pages
at least half a dozen seats. In the re-
arrangement of boundaries farming districts
in which there are relatively few Labor
voters would have to be added to Ballarat,
Grey (S.A.) and Kalgoorlie, which are
precariously held by Laborites, and to
Bendigo and Macquarie, which are very
unsafe for the Nationalists; while Labor
strongholds would have to be taken from
Barton (Nat.) and South Sydney, where
Edward Riley’s last majority was only 952
in a poll of 43,804. The too-confident
crowd in office could not have pleased the
other side more.
N.S.W. kept adding to its unemployed last
week. It was said that the Government
nominee on the Coledale Hospital Board had
spoken uncivilly to a subscriber over the
telephone, though details are lacking. Any-
how, a meeting of subscribers demanded that
he should apologise, but not being present he
naturally didn’t. Possibly he wouldn’t have
done it in any case. The Scarborough coal
pit, which hadn’t said a word or taken any
part in the disturbance, was laid idle as a
protest. The Ulimaroa was due to sail for
Maoriland with 200 passengers, but it was
tied up and its crew added to the workless.
A cook had left, and the union demanded that
two cooks and a sculleryman should be en-
gaged to replace him. This being quite
outside the award, no business resulted.
The censure motion having died, after two
weeks’ discourse about very little to very
few people, the Federal Government will get
to work on its big financial scheme. The Com-
monwealth is to take over the management
of all the State debts, and pay enough of the
interest to compensate the States for the loss
of the old subsidy, and collect the rest from
the States as best it can. It is to conduct
all new loan negotiations, and contribute to
a sinking fund on old and new loans (the
States are to do the same, the Common-
wealth collecting from them if it is able to),
and it is to reduce the external debt out
of the sinking fund if it can convert the
paper into gold. When the scheme has passed
all its Parliamentary stages it won’t amount
to anything unless accepted by the people
as an amendment of the Constitution. If
the whole business falls through the situation
will be mixed, but not much more so than it
is already.
S’Africa’s Hertzog-Greswell Government,
already weakened by a Labor split, suffered a
bad reverse in the by-election for the Port
Elizabeth division of the Cape of Good
Hope; the nominee of the Smuts (S’AJricani
party won the. seat hands down. S’African
Parliaments sit for five years, and the gen-
eral election is not due till June, 1929, but
the pact may not last till then. The House
of Assembly now consists of 63 Nationalists,
17 Laborites, 54 followers of Smuts and one
Independent.
The Chinese Nationalists have been
knocked all of a heap by the announce-
ment of a rival faction that Sun Yat
Sen’s last will and testament is a
Russian forgery. The reason for their dis-
tress is that the curious document has, since
their leader’s death, been elevated into a
bible, which is worshipped by the proletariat
with the same superstitious dread accorded
to the spirit of cholera morbus. It is
recited in schools, and three low bows are
made to it, which is all that are
accorded to a god. Whether the thing was
written by a Russian or not, it certainly re-
flects Sun’s later Soviet leanings. The prin-
cipal clause is one in which the revolution
is bequeathed to the Chinese people in per-
petuity. The versatile Sun had many inter-
esting qualities, but a sense of humor wasn’t
one of them.
Instead of being attacked by Opposition
windbags for omitting to find jobs for all and
sundry, the Bruce-Page Government ought to
be called upon to explain the bloating of the
Commonwealth Public Service, as disclosed
by the inevitable Board of Commissioners.
In 1920 there were 22,817 permanent officers
who received £4,639,000 in salaries; in 1927
the staff had grown to 28,205 and the salary
bill to £7,550,000. And besides the 28,205
permanents there were 5125 temporary and
14,159 “exempted” employees, 13,185 of the
latter being in the Postmaster-General’s de-
partment. The addition of nearly three mil-
lions to the salary bill in seven years sug-
gests, among other things, that more atten-
tion should be given to the work of the
Public Service Arbitrator, who is a law unto
himself, as “good Ole Piddo” vyas in N.S.W.
until the Bavinshaws interfered.
Some cheering references to the progress
of the Australian whisky industry were
made at the annual meeting of one of the
companies concerned. Their chief product,
it was said, is now the most popular brand
on the Australian market, and the quantities
distilled and laid down to mature during
the past two years beat previous records
out of sight. The advent of the Scotch-
Australian co. which is to make whisky
and gin at Geelong was mentioned as “a
triumph for the Protectionist policy,” with
the genial addition that there is ample room
for the new enterprise if it plays the game.
Sydney’s Civic Commission is selling a lot
of the motor-cars in which Labor aldermen
and their friends used to be seen here, there
and everywhere. The Labor Dairy specially
mentions “a large F.I.A.T. automobile that
carried mayoral parties to Melbourne Cups”
(an allusion to the glorious days of Stokes,
who was to become Minister of Agriculture
in Lang’s “Scabinet”), and explains thar,
“though cars of such grandeur were consid-
ered necessary to sustain the pomp of dead
and forgotten councils, there is really no use
for them now.” Yet the paper used to
angrily deny the allegations of municipal
joy-riding, and when the Civic Commis-
sioners arrived it nearly went into a fit.
“Bondy” Hoare, the union official who
accepted “presents” to keep a N.S.W. coal-
mine free of stoppages and who is still
aghast at the wickedness of people who
wanted work and wages to progress smoothly,
threatens to develop into an inveterate pur-
suer of the limelight. But it is difficult
to maintain a consistently high scream, as
many a hysterical lady has discovered, and
the gentleman’s latest batch of “charges”
are wanting in snap:—
If the miners could show that men became
fabulously rich by selling rubbish in excess of the
price laid down for best coal, the miners were justi-
fied in assuming that the purchasers of the coal would
not send any more orders to Australia and pay an
exorbitant price for rubbish. In order to cover up
their tracks in having lost the trade by selling rubbish
the owners had hit on the idea • of blaming the
miners for striking.... We will be able to demon-
strate by receipts in our possession that when the
coal should have been sold at 21s. 9d. per ton it
was sold for 9s. per ton in excess of that price.
Being asked if this happened as recently as
1926 “Bondy” replied, “Oh no, a long way
hack.” The problem becomes complicated,
for exports to foreign countries only did
their really disastrous tumble in 1925, and
exports to other States increased handsomely
till 1924.
THE GOLDEN AGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Knight, M.L.A., speaking in support of the
Labor candidate for Wollondilly, said that up to
October last the streets were filled with happy,
smiling, contented people ; peace and harmony reigned
supreme. With the disappearance of the Labor Gov-
ernment all that had been altered.”
When Lang was king, my lads, when Lang
was king,
Life was a singularly gladsome thing;
Whichever way you went you met for miles
Contented toilers wreathed in cheerful
smiles;
The sun shone brighter and the birds would
sing
A blither note at morn and evening.
E’en cats o’ nights seemed livelier on the
tiles
When Lang was king.
When Lang was king, my sons, when Lang
was king,
Peace had us snugly parked beneath her
wing;
Goodwill exuded from his magic touch,
And harmony inside our ranks was such
That those who marred it by their murmur-
ing
Forth quick and lively on their ears he’d
fling,
As Peter Loughlin found and Tommy Mutch
When Lang was king.
When Lang was king, ah chaps, when Lang
was king,
What stacks of jobs there were to hold
and swing!
The Treasury was chock-a-block with cash,
The air was full of happiness—and lash.
Defis. at all who crossed him he would sling;
He nearly had De Chair upon a string.
Aye, it was all but cooked, his Ex.’s hash,
When Lang was king.
When Lang was king, my oath! when Lang
was king,
What memories of sweet accord there cling
About his reign. A disobedient lot
Of colleagues forth incontinently shot,
Trod under heel like crawling things that
sting,
Ejected, mutinously muttering—
An even-tramping army, were we not,
When Lang was king?
When Lang was king, heigh-ho ! when Lang
was king.
What peace and plenty it was his to bring
Along the honest worker to endow.
Ah ! those were halycon times compared with
now.
We rioted like bees ’mid flowers in spring,
We laughed, oblivious of the reckoning
(Which one may fairly designate a cow),
When Lang was king.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
IN COMMAND.
HENRY: “I know a fine game; let’s play at navies and I’ll be the admiral!”
JESSIE: “Righto, but I must be an admiral, too.”
HENRY: “Aw, no, there can only be one admiral.”
JESSIE: “Then let’s play I’m the admiral’s wife —that will do just as well.”
“Hilary Hencoop” : Those “Back in
minutes” notices (B. 10/2/’2B) recall to
me a visit I once paid to a back-country
township in S. Aus. On the door of a
modest little shop there was an obtrusive
announcement: “Back in six months.” I
suppose I must have looked puzzled, for a
citizen leaning against an adjacent verandah
post enlightened me. “Aw, ’e’s in gaol,” he
volunteered.
* * * *
“Mudros”: Speaking of bayonet work (B.
22/2/’2B). Nobody needs to be told that
there was some on Gallipoli; but it was
later, when we reached France, that we
attended a demonstration in a Y.M.C.A.
tent where a pugilistic Scottish officer
taught us many new things about the
weapon. It was our first lesson in ferocity,
which afterwards became a recognised part
in the training of every footslogger. Scotty's
fetich was the short jab. “Two inches —
no more.” he cried. “Why waste good steel
on a Hun ? Besides, if you lunge the bayonet
will stick, and another of the blighters may
get you before you can wrench it tree.
"What d’yer think of it?” I heard Darky
ask his cobber as we left the tent. Not
much!” was the reply. ‘I stuck a Jacko
right up to the flamin’ muzzle, and. it come
out easy enough!” “Um!” said Darky.
“ ’Ow long ’ad ’e been dead?”
* * * *
“R Volt”: This is how the welcoming
speech of Bundaberg’s mayor to Hinkler
reached me in Melbourne:—
Ladies and gentlemen, we are here is Sydney in
our Bert for Gawd’s sake tell Wagga not to cut in
this auspicious occasion what the blazes is Melbourne
doing our Bert can’t you shake Albury up our Bert
fuive all the Queensland stations gone to sleep the
greatest feat in the annals now where’s Brisbane
our Bert....
Then suddenly all became plain sailing. But
I wouldn’t have missed the mental picture
of Australian telegraph attendants arguing
half across the continent for all the mayoral
addresses in the world.
* * * *
“Dingo”: In recent mention of several
great soldiers produced by the late war (B.
22/2/’2B) is there no room for such a master
of strategy, tactics and organisation as John
Monash? Even the double handicap of
being a Jew and a citizen soldier would
hardly have prevented Monasli being recog-
nised as a great commander if the war had
lasted a little longer or he had reached
'higher rank a little earlier. As it was, his
wonderful defence and still more wonderful
advance were no more popular with the
General Staff than with the Hun. Apparently
Cromwell, the mightiest of all citizen
soldiers, is not in any more favor with the
professionals to-day, for I recently attempted
to discuss Marston Moor with a brilliant
graduate of Duntroon and was told, “Oh,
we never heard much of old Oliver at the
college. He wasn’t a pukka soldier, you
know.” So perhaps, after all, Monash
wasn’t either.
* * * *
“Gouger”: Our own General Chauvel’s
fighting advance with the Desert Column
might fairly give him a place among the
great figures of the Great War (B.
22/2/’2B). The advance was made over a
hundred miles of practically waterless desert,
with no steam-train or train of lorries to
carry supplies, against an army of trained
militarists, veterans of a dozen campaigns,
savagely contesting every mile of the way. And
Chauvel was leading comparatively raw sol-
diers, thousands of whom had not even shot
a wallaby. The Sinai Desert campaign, not
including Palestine, was a war on its own,
though, of course, completely overshadowed
by the operations in Europe. ,
* $ * *
“Bullwhanger”: The modern shellback
again! The recent heavy rains had put a
good fresh in the Brisbane River when the
Ormiston was pulling out for Sydney, and
it took two tugs all their time to straighten
her out for the run down the river. In the
process one of them fouled the Rabaul Gov-
ernment’s new ketch Eros, which was
moored at the Harbor Trust’s buoys. The
bowsprit of the Eros was snapped off at the
stem head, and she and the moorings were
dragged some distance downstream. When
the ketch’s crew started to clear up the
wreckage preparatory to getting the vessel
re-moored, not a knife could be found on the
boat, and one of her hands was sent below
to rout out any make-sliift implement that
would cut some lines jambed hard and fast.
After turning the fo’c’s’le upside-down he re-
appeared on deck armed with a pair of nice
new nickelled nail-scissors and laboriously
slashed the ship adrift!
* * * *
“Ida D.” : The new arrival from England
who had met his death through tying two
young calves together (B. 15/12/’27) re-
minds me of a pommy who worked for us
on a western station. We had a chestnut
mare that had taken a great dislike to
him, and would never allow him to ride her,
though she was quiet enough with anyone
else. One hot Sunday afternoon I noticed
the young man saddling the mare; three
times he mounted, and each time she gave a
buck, pitched him over her head, and after
a wild gallop round the paddock allowed him
to catch her again. Finally he tied one end
of a rope round his waist and the other to
the saddle, leaving a long slack. I rushed
out, and was informed that he did not Wsh
to run after the damn mare every time.
Expostulations were useless, and he was just
remounting when my excited screeches
brought the manager at top speed. After
he had grasped the situation it was my turn
to run—inside.
FOREWARNED IS FOREARMED.
“Darling, if you were to tire of me after we are married, I would throw myself over
the Gap."
“Well, now, that’s a handy thing to know.”
“Hokusai” : Now that Australasian ports
are thronged with Japanese shipping of the
most up-to-date type, there is some interest
in the statement by the Japanese Consul-
General in a recent lecture in Wellington
(M.L.) that his countrymen were first
taught the art of shipbuilding by an English-
man named William Adams. Bill, who may
have been an ancestor of the hero of Water-
loo, was a shipwrecked sailor who cast up in
Nippon in the year 1600. His instruction
was so valuable that in 1610 a Japanese
ship completed the voyage to Mexico and
back, the first Japanese craft to go so far
a-sea. The Consul-General should know
what he is talking about, but it is strange
that Japan, which has borrowed so many
of the arts and crafts from the Chinese, did
not learn to build ocean-going craft from
that mighty race of navigators. The Chinese
were sailing as far as Ceylon a thousand
years ago, and their vessels must have been
familiar in Japanese waters long before that.
# * * *
“Lao-dah”: A fire in the brown-coal
bunkers of the Barnet Glass Rubber works
at Footscray (Vic.) produced a crop of
heroisms the other day.
Ordered to shovel the
coal into the hoppers as
quickly as possible, one of
the employees put on a
gas-mask and descended
into the bunker, from
which dense smoke was
rising. Ten minutes
passed and he failed to
re-appear, whereupon J.
Thompson put on another
mask which he knew to
be less efficient and went
in to investigate. He
found the missiiig man in
a state of collapse, but
before he could get’ him
to the surface went under to the acrid
fumes himself. The two might have perished
where they lay had not Leonard Pullen gone
in without any mask at all and dragged
both of them out. It takes some courage to
face such odds as those.
* * * *
“Selma”: The Major, who occupies the
two front rooms in the Darlingliurst resi-
dential that I inhabit, had a slight alterca-
tion with the landlady the other morning,
and subsequently informed me that he had
decided to seek other quarters. He adver-
tised accordingly, giving a newspaper
address, and returned next day in a tower-
ing rage. He had collected one reply, and
that was from our landlady offering him his
own rooms. There was, she explained, at
present an unpleasant old gentleman in
possession, but she intended giving him
notice, as he was nothing but a nuisance
and made himself disagreeable to the other
guests. It was the first time for 50 years
the Major had heard the truth about him-
self, but after a hectic 10 minutes with his
traducer friendly relations were restored.
* * * *
“Topee”: A passage in Pepys’ Diary sug-
gests that a silken halter was not the pre-
rogative of peers only (B. 21/2/’2B'' ; also
it shows "why this form of noose was re-
garded as preferable. Under date of Feb-
ruary, 1622, the diarist writes: “It seems
one Dillon, of a great family, was, after
much endeavor to have saved him, hanged
with a silken halter this sessions, of his
own preparing; not for honor only but,
being soft and sleek, it do slip close and
kills, that is, strangles presently; whereas,
a stiff one do not come so close together,
and so tlie party may live the longer before
being killed,” etc. Had the unfortunate
Dillon been a peer instead of merely “of a
great family,” the garrulous Samuel would
surely have recorded the fact.
“Bill O’C.”': The old Lady Augusta, whose
bones are still lying in the mud at Echuca,
was not “the first steamer to navigate the
Murray” (B. 22/2/’2B). When the South
Aus. Government offered a premium of £3OOO
for the first navigator to ascend the river by
steamboat from the mouth “to at least the
junction with the River Darling,” the boat
to conform to specified minimum size and
li.p., Francis Cadell, a clever Scottish sea-
man-adventurer, had a steamer built to the
required specification in Sydney, and duly
took her by sea to and through the Murray
mouth. He had christened his craft the
Lady Augusta after Lady Augusta Young,
wife of the S.A. Governor, and after taking
the latter and a Parliamentary party aboard
he steamed up-river. But meanwhile William
R. Randcll, a country miller with no know-
ledge of shipbuilding beyond what he had
gathered from books, cut his own timbers,
built, engined and launched the little Mary
Ann at Mannum (S.A.) without any pre-
liminary fireworks. He started a few days
in advance of Cadell, passed the Darling
junction and Swan Plill (where the Lady
Augusta turned) ahead of the larger craft,
and went on to Moama or Echuca. On the
return trip he overtook the Lady Augusta,
picked up Governor Young’s despatches and
carried them on to Adelaide. Randell had
no idea of competing for the award, as he
knew his vessel was not up to the speci-
fication ; but his enterprise was recognised
by an honorarium of £3OO. Randell’s family
carry on the enterprise to this day; the
boilers of the original Mary Ann may still
be seen on the river bank at Mannum in a
venerated enclosure.
# * * *
“Talmat”: English silver coins of recent
years may be exactly the same color as
Australian (B. 22/2/’2B), but only when
they are fresh from the Mint. After being
in circulation for awhile they become slate
colored. In fact, I have handled some which
were a grey-green color. Also it would be
a poor counterfeit which did not ring better
than a modern British shilling.
WRITS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let the greater (and lesser) exponents of
law,
Who specialise either by pen or by jaw.
Conveyancers, common-law merchants and
others
Comprising my more or less erudite brothers,
Indulge their caprices however they please
In any directions that lead them to fees —
It’s a matter of taste, I may frankly admit —
But give me “Instructions to issue a writ.”
Some own to a passion (and madly they
crave it)
For the skill underlying a crook affidavit.
Others more morbid may even find thrills
In the structure of wordy and intricate wills,
Or those overgrown, rambling, luxuriant
weeds,
Conveyancing triumphs called “purchasing
deeds.”
But no tautological crimes they commit
Can match the sheer joy of a menacing writ.
Just show me the newspaper boss who has
tripped,
The scribe who has dropped the “alleged”
from his script,
The rash politician who’s “said it outside”
(Though his silly hot air may be blown to
the wide),
The man who once took a girl jazzing and
kissed her,
What ho! the blue paper that raises the
blister!
They must fight, they must compromise, bluff
or submit,
When I fire in my beautiful, truculent writ.
The method’s too easy, I’m bound to agree.
You pass in the paper and pay a small fee.
A clerk dabs a seal on and hands the thing
back,
And now you are armed on the enemy’s
track,
With the King’s “command” stated hr terms
stern and stark
(Though it’s really the product of Grabbit
and Shark).
But “George by the Grace of God, King”....
and “To Wit”
Just scare them all stiff when displayed in
a writ.
Some day I’ll retire with an honored old
name.
Deserting; the pleasant “Now-answer-tlris”
game.
Then I’ll build me a mansion befitting my
station
And give fancy rein in its fine decoration,
With a figure of Justice in attitude static,
Blindfolded and holding the scales emblem-
atic.
And I’ll never omit the most artistic bit,
A frieze of my favorite blue-papered writ.
S.A.
BILL O'COSTS.
BALLADE OF IRISH STEW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Doric column’s noble lines
Admit no other ornament;
The rare bouquet of vintage wines
Would be destroyed by added scent.
What wonder, then, that I lament
The widespread but erroneous view
That added savor may be lent
By carrots merged in Irish stew?
My healthy hunger often pines
For that substantial nutriment
Composed of tender mutton chines
With spuds and onions subtly blent;
Alas, the shillings I have spent
In restaurants have bought but rue,
For always, to my discontent,
Carrots were in the Irish stew.
The fortunate Hibernian dines
Quite as an everyday event
On that ambrosia which combines
Three things which need no supplement.
Not so this literary gent.,
Who pleads with Dagoes to eschew
Their heresies. Vain argument—
They still put carrots in the stew.
Envoy.
Prince, perseverance is my bent,
And the fond hope yet springs anew
That in my next experiment
I will get dinkum Irish stew.
N.S.W.
AIAB MULDOON.


“Tahune” : Touching those 170,000 barrels
of whale oil scooped in from our seas by
the Norwegian fleet (B. 29/2/’2S), Antarctic
weather conditions were good this season and
temperatures less inclement than usual.
Seven days of easy steaming brought the
Alonso to the ice-pack, which she passed
through in a week, as against 17 days on
her previous voyage. The small oilburning
chasers do the actual “fishing” ; one of them
scored 198 whales off her own bat. Two
men were lost; one through injuries, the
other washed overboard on the return trip.
Here is a hugely profitable industry at Aus-
tralia’s back door, but the hardy Norsemen
can come 14,000 miles and get in first. How
long the whales will last at this rate of
massacre is another problem.
* * * *
“S.N.R.”: “Murkali” suggested that an
interlocking apparatus by which the sound-
WHICH WOULD HE LIKE BEST?
“Shall we cut out time by going to the theatre, Henry, or would you rather we stayed
home and quarrelled?”
ing of the horn would automatically cut off
the petrol supply (B. 22/2/’2B) might save
some inquests on city jay walking pedes-
trians. But what would happen to the
motorists, with cars so equipped, climbing
round the hairpin bends of Cambewarra,
Barrengarry, Clyde or Brown mountains? A
careful driver toots when rounding these
death-traps. If the noise stopped him auto-
matically the Coroner would still be over-
worked.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: The greatest tow in history
will commence when eight Dutch tugs—the
Hollanders are specialists in towage, possibly
through the practice they get on their canals
—nluck five acres of floating dock from their
moorings in the Tyne and make for the
Singapore base, 8500 miles away. The dock
has a displacement of 50,000 tons, and will
probably not travel at more than one m.p.h.
Consequently, traffic through the Suez Canal
will have to be held up for four days, while
it crawls along that narrow waterway. A
small army of engineers will live in houses
erected on the float. As the gradual
leviathan drifts down the Malacca Straits it
will recall to the Malay villagers their own
lumber rafts. I once passed one of these
great accumulations of logs, with a small
village of men, women, children, goats and
fowls on board, which had taken 1.0 days to
float from Kedah to Penang, a distance of
50 miles.
* * * *
“Cooramin” : Names of wayside pubs have
mostly grown commonplace compared with
the catchy titles that used to cheer the way-
farer. Many a night have I spent at the
Travellers’ Rest and the Flying Horse, on
the Grafton-Casino (N.S.W.) road. The
traveller who really wanted rest at the first
place could seldom rely on getting it unless
he took his bed down the gully. The other
inn had an artistic signboard depleting
Pegasus stampeding for refreshments. At
Casino was the Durham Ox, a noted pub-
bery emblazoned with a red and white
picture of the famous beast; here cedar-
getters and bearded squatters shook things
up. The most fantastic pub name I have
bumped was the Jump Up Hotel on the
Flinders (W.Q.) The Beehive was once a
popular name for bush pubs; with it there
generally went a picture of an old-fashioned
hive and sometimes a bit of verse. Nor was
The Bull an uncommon sign. I remember
one hostelry which notified patrons, beneath
a noble picture of Taurus
This bull is tame, so fear it not
As long as you can pay your shot.
When money’s done and credit’s bad
That is the time the bull goes mad.
* * * Me
“Listinsect” : 3LO, Melbourne’s premier
broadcasting station, announced Hinkler’s
arrival at Darwin on February 22, and then
told its expectant customers that later on in
the evening a song commemorating this epic
event in the history of Australia would be
transmitted. In due course the patriotic
effusion was put on the air. It proved to be
a several months’ old ode to Lindbergh, in
which “Hustling Hinkler” was substituted
for “Lucky Lindy” !
* * * *
“A.8.W.”: In Victoria any would-be
motorist who resides outside the 10-mile
radius from Melbourne G.P.O. may qualify
for a certificate by driving in the company
of an acquiescent village policeman along a
more or less deserted main street. Suburban-
ites, on the other hand, must navigate the
principal traffic arteries of the city, and
narrow crowded by-streets like Little Lon.
and Little Bourke, before they are classed
proficient. Considering that both classes are
equally entitled to use the city streets I
suggest should be a metropolitan
test for all nands. Many accidents in the
city are caused by bewildered country folk
who are unused to the traffic tangle, and not
versed in the city’s traffic laws. Anyone who
can afford to run a car ought to be able to
afford to come to Melbourne to qualify for
a license.
* * * *
“Unity”: Most bank clerks could tell some
amazing stories about the quaint views
occasionally held by ladies on the subject
of negotiable instruments, but one Sydney
teller thinks he struck the limit last week.
A fashionably-attired young woman pre-
sented her husband’s cheque, much crossed
out and blotted. “It was made out for ten
pounds,” she explained ingenuously, “but I’ve
decided to buy some things for the house, so
I’ve altered it to twenty-five.” She wms
extremely annoyed when objections were
raised, and indignantly contended that the
signature was quite in order. Another
young woman, whose husband had preceded
her to Melbourne and left her a £2O cheque
to defray her expenses in following him,
arrived at the same bank not long since and
cooed her predicament across the counter.
Inadvertently she had packed the cheque in
her luggage, which was now in the hold of
the steamer, but if the bank would give her
the £2O she would be sure to post the
cheque back to them as soon as she got to
Melbourne. The bank couldn’t oblige her to
this extent, but it did get an old family
friend to come to the distressed dame’s
rescue.
* * * *
“Sea Nomad” : Forbes or “Spirit” Island,
just off the Pascoe River, York Peninsula,
is worth a visit
from the archaeolo-
gists. Encircling
one of the hills is
a stone wall com-
manding the beach
obviously built for
defensive purposes
though long since
overgrown by scrub.
On a hilltop is a
lookout strongly
walled with rock,
and at the water’s
edge, hidden by
undergrowth, is a
big cave showing
evidences of one-
time human occu-
pation. Some of the
great rocks along
the slopes are shat-
tered as if by can-
non-shot, and can-
non-balls of an an-
tique pattern have
been found by
buried
deep in the earth
and sand. There is
a tradition that the
island was once a
rendezvous for
black - birders, but
that would hardly
account for the for-
tification s. The
natives are very
hazy on the island’s
history, but they
will tell you that
“plenty fight” oc-
curred there before
and after the black-
birding days, and
they have a dimly-
outlined legend of
lamars (white
spirits) who came
to these parts long
ago in a ghost ship, ran on the reef, settled on
the island and lingered there for years before
the last sjurvivor was killed. There are some
details that suggest the old-time Spaniards.
sjc
“C.Q.”: The Australian record for long-
distance broadcasting was the relaying to
3DO, Melbourne, of Hinkler’s Reception at
Bundaberg. The roar of his propeller and
liis quiet reply to the official speeches had
to pass through special repeaters at Bris-
bane, Wallangarra, Tam worth, Sydney,
Goulburn, Wagga and Albury, yet they
reached Victorian listeners as clearly as it
they had originated in the same room. The
metallic channel was 1472 miles long, and
some 30 telegraph employees stood by across
the continent to push the sound waves on
their way.
* * * *
“Maunga”: If one thing more than, an-
other has contributed to the survival of the
Maori, I suggest that it is the toughness
and versatility of his digestive apparatus.
Walking one day along the shore at_ Tau-
ranga (M.L.), I came across a big Maori
squatted comfortably on the grass and in-
dulging in a little light refreshment. It
consisted of a 21b. hunk of baker’s currant-
cake, a bottle of lemonade and a row of
opened outsize raw sea-mussels. The way
he was hoeing into the viands almost gave
me an attack of dyspepsia on the spot.
* * * *
“Craiser” : Another record connected with
the Hinkler flight, which bristles with them,
was the winging of J. A. Murray, of Hoyts’
Theatres, from Melbourne to Bundaberg to
put a showman proposition personally before
the aviator. Australian Aerial Services sup-
plied the E nver Bird, whose Rolls-Royce
engine of 375 h.p. has the widest range of
any flying engine in the continent. One 850-
mile leg of the flight was the non-stop
record for Australia.
* sf: * *
“Moe” : The dress of R.C. nuns bound for
mission duty in the tropics may seem a
cruelly unnecessary burden (B. 22/2/’2S),
but concessions to climate are made when
they reach their destination. Most of the
missions in New Guinea and adjoining
islands provide members with a special cos-
tume for tropical wear. This may be either
white linen or holland, the latter "being more
favored because it is more durable and does
not require such constant washing.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Modern methods of hygiene
came in for severe censure the other day
from a Methuselah in Wellington, Maori-
laud. Pasteurisation of milk! Bali! Under-
ground drainage! Humbug! Water supply
from a river brought through miles of pipes!
Bosh! And the ancient folded his arms
and told how things were done in his village
in Kent 70 years ago. There all the drainage
found its way into the village pond, where
the cattle were watered, and the ducks and
geese swam in contentment. There the rustics
washed down their horses and obtained their
drinking supplies. Epidemics? The ancient
never heard of such things. And there is
no reason to suppose he was drawing on
his imagination either; many a Digger can
tell of French hamlets where things were
little more advanced.
* * * *
“Carisbrook, .Tun.”: Australian meteoro-
logical reports, like the American, were pri-
marily issued for shipping along the coast;
that is why squally and rainy weather is
described as “bad”. (B. l/2/’2B) and so
forth. Australia has one of the best meteor-
ological services for ships at sea in the
world. Information collected twice daily—
at 9 a.m. and 3 p.m.—from thousands of
towns in the Commonwealth by landline, and
from Papua, New Guinea, the Dutch East
Indies, Suva and ships at sea by radio. A
special meteorological and radio station ou
Willis Island, in the heart of the N.Q.
cyclone belt, supplies important data. The
summary of conditions and forecasts is tele-
graphed from the capital cities to every
important town, and is broadcast thrice daily
to ships at sea and the man on the land.
* $ * *
“Aileron”: The fantasies of yester-year
are the truths of to-day. When I was in
a Light Horse brigade in Sinai in 1916 a
flying officer told of a secret aeroplane gun
THE AUTOCRAT.
“You ought to insist on having more of your own way, Selina.”
“You don’t know my husband. Why, he won’t even eat any-
thing that doesn’t agree with him.”
which was being tested in England, and was
expected to literally blow the socks off Fritz.
He was half believed till he mentioned that,
to obviate recoil, the gun was loaded with a
double charge in the middle, and when fired
the charges exploded in opposite directions,
the kick of the rear pointing barrel, which
fired a blank only, setting off the recoil from
the real business end. No man in Sinai or
Palestine and adjacant parts ever enjoyed
such a reputation as a Munchausen, and it
stuck to him for the rest of his life, which
was not overlong. Yet a quite recent cable
mentions a small shell-firing cannon with
which military aeroplanes are to be fitted on
tlie ? above principle. I can imagine that in
the Elysian fields that flying officer now
has the laugh on those who scoffed at him.
Jj: H*
“Kune” : It was a cosmopolitan form of
eternal triangle that cropped up at the
Auckland Supreme Court the other day. A
Chinaman sued for a divorce from his Eng-
lish wife; the co-re. was a Hindu!
* * * *
“B-Gar”: “Cock” has long ceased to be
the most favored of bush nicknames (B.
l/2/’2B). Since the war, for every “Cock"
there are now at least 20 “Diggers." In
shearing-shed, mustering-camps, navvies
camps—in fact, wherever out-door workers
are in numbers —a few “Diggers” will be
found, not necessarily ex-soldiers, either. Its
an affectionate sobriquet that has come to stay.
* * * *
“A.8.W.”: Malvern, one of Melbourne’s
best residential suburbs, unblushingly claims
the Marie Stopes biscuit for Victoria for
1027. For the 12 months there were only
453 births, equivalent to 11.2 per 1000 on a
population basis of 43,100. • The birth-rate
lias declined 50 per cent, since 1913.
* * * *
“Shoot, Darn Yuli!”: One of the most
interested Melbourne spectators of the recent
German propaganda film on V.D. was a
well-known irregular practitioner with an
enormous clientele. When the _ "V ictonaa
Act prevented him from practising he en-
gaged himself as batman to a doctor. The
registered medico duly receives the patients,
but it is his humble assistant who treat?
them according to a method which he claims
is vastly superior to any known to the
faculty. It is certainly far more expediti-
ous. A rapid fire of questions, a prescrip-
tion, and “Next, please!” The quack has
had a lifetime of experience, but how mma
scientific basis there is for his treatment 1
can’t say. The clinical details of the Ska
were a revelation to him, anyhow, judging
by his appearance when he came out.
* * * *
“Maunga”: “Pakeha” (B. 8/2/’2B) men-
tions the recent refusal of a Rotorua (M.L 1
boardinghouse-keeper to accommodate
couple of Maori girls as if it were a new
departure. It is nothing of the
the quoted newspaper comment that "a color
line in this country is no part of public
intention or sentiment.” When Ratana, the
Maori evangelist and faith-healer, was n r
Tauranga, I was there, and know of tw
establishments that flatly refused to seru“
him and his retinue. Only last week m a
tobacconist’s shop at Palmerston North t
read a notice on the door of the shaving-
saloon notifying that Maoris were barred.
Even those who, like myself, have a genuine
affection for Honi realise that the position
is difficult. He is by instinct communal,
and doesn’t possess a particle of pakelia
snobbishness, so that it is quite usual wli e
Maoris congregate to see one dressed m
height of fashion fraternising with another
w-hose garments might have been looted olt
a scarecrow. To expect ariv up-to-dare
establishment to cater for any Maori is try-
ing it high; some evade the difficulty t>y
catering for none.
DURANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By hills that hide a hundred vales an old
road leads away
From all that binds a rover’s heart and
coaxes me to stay;
By scrub and grass lands greenly set ’mid
red farmlands aglow
The gleaming, winding road goes high, the
rolling road runs low.
And rover-men whose feet have trod
Its glamored, witching way
May understand the restless urge
That irks my feet to-day.
A score of ships are by the quays—a score
are outward bound,
Where seven laughing seas shall dance their
joyous bows around.
The magic lanes of blue shall lead, and Luck
shall guide the craft
That crave enchanted ports ahead, with dull
home ports abaft.
And sailor-men whose feet have trod
Wet decks that roll and dip
May know that iny heart wistfully
Goes out with every ship.
But here where roads go westward out and
seas roll east away
I dwell, because enchantment lies just now
in eyes of grey
And softly-moulded yearning arms, and
ardent pleading lips.
(The Devil take the dusty roads, and rolling,
plunging ships!)
And every man whose feet have strayed
Adown Love’s luring way
Will know that I shall surely ride
By smiling road and laughing tide
Again some happy day.
QUEENSLANU.
G.A. LLOYD.


BRITISH TRADE EXHIBITION
MELBOURNE
‘ 1
m
2
unfft'-'r.M
«Kr
4
m
5
SEE THESE
BEARIN6S OH
STAND
154
w
THE RIGHT BEARING
FOR THE JOB!
1
if THE as? SINGLE ROW» NON-FILLING
SLOT BALL BEARING is characterised by deep
uninterrupted raceways which enable it to carp thrust loads in
either direction, as well as radial loads. It has no filling slo
and this allows either face to be applied to the load making the
bearing fool-proof in assembly and reversible m operation.
It is the right bearing for general and automobile purposes.
■n
THE 03? DOUBLE ROW. SELF-ALICN;
3NG BALL BEARING possesses inherent ability
to compensate automatically for shaft deflection or n " sa **§"'
merit. Its design embodies the principle of the ball and socket
joint, eliminating the need for external aligning devices, it
is the right bearing for line shafting.
THE @C3P TAPER ROLLER BEARING.
The taper rollers of this bearing are guided and prevented from
skewing or skidding by a spherical surface flange which co-
incides with the spherical surface given to the large end of the
rollers. A stiff one-piece cage is provided only as a separator
for the rollers and in no way guides them. It is the right
bearing for automobile front hubs and swivel pins and for
motor-cycle hubs and steering heads.
THE @O3? DOUBLE ROW* SELF-ALIGN-
ING ROLLER BEARING possesses the original g£3F
feature of compensating automatically and instantaneously for
shaft deflections and misalignment without the need for
external aligning devices. Its high efficiency may be attributed
to the special formation of the rollers and race contours by which
increased load-capacity in both axial and radial directions has
been achieved. It is the right bearing for heavy loads and
severe duty.
THE aa? UNCLE ROW CYLINDRICAL
DALLFD REARING is a simple straight-forward
beSngof die standard of quality and efficiency.
It is employed to a great extent in electrical engineering.
V
l
BAIL & ROLLER BEARINtiS
AND STEEL BALLS
THESKEFCO BALL BEARING
COMPANY, LTD.
Head Offices and Factory:
Luton, Bedfordshire, England.
Represented in Australia by
THE SKP BALL BEARING COMPANY,
LIMITED.


‘ Australia’s Largest Distributors of Firearms' ;
K SUMMON
High-Grade Guns
By the Foremost English, American and Continental Manufacturers
ŵ
No. 7—HOLLIS’ D.8.8.L. SPECIAL DUCK GUN.
12G., 34in. steel barrels, both choke, Greener cross bolt, snap fore-end, half
pistol grip, walnut stock, chambered for 2 fin. cartridges, guaranteed for all
smokeless powders, specially built for heavy charges and long-
distance shooting; weight about B£lb £l5/15/-
Carriage Paid.
ẁ
ẃ
No. S—HOLLIS’ D.8.8.L. CUN,
12G., top lever, 32in. barrels,
both choke, X-bolt; weight about
7ib £9/10/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 30—C. H. CRAWFORD’S
D.8.8.L. GUN.
UG., top lever, double bolt, steel barrels,
both choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll
engraved, bar locks, nitro proof,
X-bolt; weight about 71b., 32in.
barrels £io/5/.
Carriage Paid.
No. 3—HOLLIS’ “THE RELIABLE”
D.8.8.L. GUN.
t°P lever, bar action, 32in. steel barrels,
both choke, rebounding locks, X-bolt, snap
fore-end, half-pistol grip, walnut stock, cham-
bered for 21 in. cartridges, guaranteed for all
smokeless powder; weight about
741 b £l3/10/-
Carriage Paid.
The Shooting
Catalogue and
Guide
A complete price list of Mick
Simm o n s’ comprehensive
stocks, which embrace the
foremost English, American,
and Con-
tinental
manufac-
turers of
F irearms,
In addition
there is
authentic
nformation
of interest
to the
zealous
Sportsman.
A
r~
Copy post free.
No.
22— HOLLOWAY’S D.8.8.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN.
12G., 32in. steel barrels, both choke, side lock
action, auto safety A. & D. action. Deeley
fore-end, X-bolt, engraved, chambered for
2 fin. cartridges, guaranteed for all smoke-
less powders; weight about
7flb £l6/16/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 9—CASHMORE D.8.8.L. GUN.
12G., solid bar action, 32in. steel barrels, left
choke, extension rib, X-bolt, D. & E. fore-end
pistol, walnut stock; weight
about 71b £l2/17/6
Carriage Paid.
No. 29—8.5. A. D.B. HAMMERLESS
SHOT GUN.
12G., 30in. barrels, both choke, nitro proof,
fluid compressed steel barrels, automatic
safety pistol grip; weight about
6f lb £l5
Carriage Paid.
r
World-Famous
rting Rifles
No. I S—WINCHESTER SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE,
1904 MODEL, for 22 short, long or long-rifle
cartridges; 2 1 in. heavy round steel barrel, plain
trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight, plain
front sight; length of rifle over all, .~ ,
37^in.; weight, about 41b 40/-
Postage : N.8.W., 1/6; Other States, 3/2.
No. 17—WINCHESTER REPEATING RIFLE,
1906 MODEL, 22cal„ 16 shot, 20in. round
barrel, plain trigger, straight grip, ladder rear
sight, slide action; magazine holds 15 short,
12 long, or 1 1 long-rifle cartridges; ** A .
weight about 5-jjlb X4/1 0/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 35—BROWNING “TROMBONE” HAM-
MERLESS REPEATING RIFLE, 22in. round
steel barrel; handles 22 short, long or long-
rifle cartridges; screw rear and open front
sights; length over all, 39in.; weight, __ ,
4 fib 70/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 1 I—STEVENS’ “FAVORITE” RIFLE, 22,
25 or 32 calibres, R.F., round 24in. barrel,
case-hardened frame, solid breech block, take-
down action, open front and sporting
rear sights; weight, 4Jlb 44'-
Postage ; N.8.W., 1/9; Other States. 3/2. •
No. 31— REMINGTON HAMMERLESS RE-
PEATING RIFLE, MODEL 12A, 22cal„ solid
breech; side ejector, straight grip, 22in. round
barrel; handles 15 short, 12 long, or II long-
rifle cartridges; adjustable rear
and open front sights; weight, e* a /•% ri /r*
4 lib. £4/17/6
\ Carriage Paid.
No. 39—“ THE SAVAGE” REPEATING RIFLE,
1925 MODEL, 22cal„ 24in. octagon barrel,
slide action, pistol grip; handles short, long or
long-rifle cartridges; magazine holds 20 short,
17 long or 15 long-rifle; length
over all, 40in.; weight about s§lb. £5
Carriage Paid.
, <Simmons Jh
Headquarters : 720 Hay market, Sydney,
AND AT NEWCASTLE AND BRISBANE.
"Australia's Largest Distributors of Firearms


A PREMATURE SUNRISE.
“‘Dawn,’ the film depicting the execution of Nurse Cavell, has roused violent protests in Germany.”
VON FRITZ: “Ach! Just as I am burying the hatchet, too!”


The label's
on the squint -
The bottle's
on the square;
If you ash.
forJohnnieWalher
\bu will find
him eveiywhere
WAhKER
«3
V
*&>
a
N.
*
k
V
Ti
Born 1820
-Still
g oin g
Strong
Its easy to see why “JOHNNIE WALKER "
has the largest sale ofany whisky in the world
JOHN WALKER & SONS. LTD.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE. LONDON & KILMARNOCK


HOTEL SYDNEY
Management: Edward T. Cheesemau.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
Throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
80ft. above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from 19/6
Bed and Breakfast from 137-
Telegrams : “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 liup«i
SILVER
In the
Square
Glass
Botfle with
GREEN LABEL
Equally Fa.mous
HOLLAND GIN
ai'e BOLS Vei'y Old
v tke Stone Bottle,
and BOLS Superfine LIQUEURS • •
in.
The New Suitcase
“HOLSMOR” (Reg.).
Expanding to
Sixteen Different Sizes.
Everybody says
“It’s Wonderful.”
Obtainable at all Leading Stores.
Manufactured by I. SHER,
107-9 Hardware St., Melbourne, Cl.
(Sydney Agents: P. Brittain & Co.,
95 York Street.)
PERSONAL
ITEMS
A. G. STEPHENS, the literary critic whose
article on Henry Lawson has brought
a hornets’ nest about his beard—as he
was when the Red Page knew him.
“Harold Hardupp”: One of the proudest
men in Sydney just now is an old Bunda-
bergian, Who'recalls how he met Hinkler in
what was probably the airman’s first flying
experiment. He himself, he says, was driv-
ing a buggy up a very steep incline when,
with a rattle and a whiz, what looked like
a winged billy-cart came tearing down the
slope at him. The startled horse draped
itself over a fence, pitching him out heavily,
but, he declares, he had life enough in him
to pursue and capture the infant Hinkler
w T hen the latter crashed further downhill.
“Then,” he adds reminiscently, “I adopted
stern measures.”
D. li. Bureau, the Melbourne business
man who was accused of having stolen the
Holy Grail or something from an Oodnadatta
tribe when he purchased some Churinga
stones on the recent Reso train tour, has
settled the argument by presenting the sacred
gibbers to the Vic. National Museum.
Accompanying the gift is a copy ot the
police report obtained by the b.A. Govern-
ment when the transaction came up tor
excited comment in the Gumsucker Parlia-
ment. The case for the defence was that
Binghi may at one time have regarded the
missile as a talisman which protected him
from his enemy's spear, but that nowadays
he has found he is just as liable to be run
over by a Ford at the Alice Springs inter-
section when he has it on hint as when he
has. it not.
W. Li. Cartwright, of Tamworth
(N.S.W.), has had word that lie has been
awarded the Meritorious Service Order,
which seems to indicate that survivors of the
Calliope are being recognised at last. Cart-
wright was one of that famous ship’s gun-
ners when it made the great escape from
Apia, with the aid of good Westport (M.L.)
coal, in 1889. Captain and crew became
public heroes, but when the crew’s conduct
was mentioned in the British Commons, the
Admiralty declared that there would be no
special recognition, as all hands had simply
done their duty.
“C.Q.” : The Diggers have their own way
of showing their resentment at the potty
ignoring of Monash by officialdom. At a
recent important function in Melbourne the
lane that had been made through the crowd
to admit the vice-regal representative and
other bigwigs was closing when I and others
were firmly shoved on one side again, and a
fierce voice over an R.-S. badge muttered:
“Git outer the way! Cantcher see
who’s coming?” The “who” was John
Monash, arriving, as usual, as a private
citizen.
Judge C. E. Herbert, just appointed
Administrator of Norfolk Island, is a South
Australian, whose jobs have taken him far
afield of late years. He was practising law
in South Australia when the Federal Gov-
ernment appointed him Government Resi-
dent and- Judge at Darwin in 1905. From
there he went to Papua as a member of
the Royal Commission which resulted in
the appointment of Judge Hubert Murray.
The twin jobs of Judge and Administrator
were too much for one man, and Herbert
was appointed Deputy Chief Judicial Officer
in Papua, later becoming the first Judge
of the Central Court, a billet which involves
the acting Lieut.-Governorship. A tactful,
likeable personality, lie has done well in the
Territory, and he is probably making the
change to Norfolk for health reasons, since
lie has been 20 years in Papua, and the
Central Court in that country has to do
a deal of arduous travelling in a climate
not remarkable for its salubrity. Of course,
lie has written a book about Papua. That
is expected of everyone who has stayed six
weeks in the country.
Passed on at 64, Arthur William Tooth,
brewer, yachtsman, golfer, motorist and
member of the A.J.C. Born in Sydney, he
was educated at Eton, and went back to the
Cold Country, later to complete his education
in the Kent breweries. He controlled the
brewing of the big Sydney firm from 1889 to
1916, and was one of the Harbor city's
earliest motoring enthusiasts. Two sons
crossed over in the war.
Max Henry, chief vet. of N.S.W. Agri-
culture Department, will be chairman of the
committee that is to investigate the possi-
bilities of fur-farming in the State. An old
King’s School boy, he went to Egypt in
1914 in charge of the Ist Australian Veter-
inary section, and served in various branches
of the Veterinary Corps throughout the long
campaign in Sinai and Palestine, ending as
Divisional Veterinary Commander, with the
rank of Lt.-Colonel, and the D. 5.0., as well
as the reputation of being one of the most
brilliant vets, in an army that had many of
them and needed them all.
Died recently on the Riviera, Lieut-
Com. W. N. Barston, R.N. Transferred
temporarily to the It.A.N. a few years
ago, Barston navigated H.M.A.S. Brisbane,
lie was regarded as one of the most skilful
pilots in the service, and his discovery of
an uncharted submerged reef in Pacific
waters gave' him a notch in shipping annals.
Later, when ill-health forced him out of the
service, he took up the pen, and as “Fore-
bridge” his naval criticisms and nautical
reminiscences for a long time delighted
Bulletin readers. Returning to England
18 months ago he supplied London dailies
and weeklies with reams of copy; he was
working on an article when the call came.
The floods brought to light a few of those
who do their job whatever happens. W. J.
Minshall, the mail contractor operating be-
tween Carrawang and Goulburn (N.S.W.),
was one of them. When his lorry was held
up by flood waters, he dec’ded.to swim and
walk the rest of the distance from the
Brewon Bridge—l 2 miles —and did it. He
could only crawl up the steps of the Goul-
burn post office, with the mailbags on his
shoulders. Then, having done his job, he
collapsed, and was rushed off to hospital.
Spruce as the outside of a can of his
firm’s “57 varieties,” Howard Heinz, pre-
sident of the H. J. Heinz Co., of the United
States, is having his first look at Australia.
He is a director of the Pennsylvania Rail-
road Co., and wasn’t here 24 hours before
relieving himself of the opinion that one of
the first things that should be done when
Australia has the money would be to unify
main-line gauges.
The resignation of A. G. Palmer, Presby-
terian* clergyman in Paddington, Sydney, has
thrown the spotlight upon the poor parson
again. He worked bn a basis which some-
G.A. MAXWELL, M.H.R. for Fawkner, the
K.C. briefed to appear for Probationary
Parson Griggs in the Orneo mystery
case.
times brought him no more than 30s. per
week, arid he had to depend on the charity
of church supporters (mostly outside his
parish) to liquidate his debts when they
soared too high, and creditors became impor-
tunate. After- 10 years of it he decided that
the struggle to keep going and bring up his
two children was too much, so he decided to
look for a job away from the Church.
The question as to whether the bite of the
luitipo spider can be deadly, except to young
children, was settled when A. E. Cresswell,
senior analyist of Vic. Health Department,
died after a fortnight’s illness which started
when he was bitten by one of the insects
while on leave at Frankston. The popu-
lar officer had beeri 35 years in civil-service
harness and was a brother of Commander
Cresswell of the R.A.N. radio branch. The
late Canon Cresswell was his father.
A remarkable instance of a man success-
fully switching from business to academic
life after 30 was provided by just-dead Pro-
fessor Launcelot Harrison. Failing to find
content in other things, he took up the
science course at Sydney Uni. when 31, and
in the next three years collected a hatful
of medals, prizes, honors and scholarships,
the last including a science research that
took him to England, where he added a B.A.
to his B.Sc. The war started then, and he
plunged into the laboratory work that helped
to win it.
Adelaide University Conservatorium has
as its acting director, during the absence of
Prof. Harold Davies in Europe, the veteran
I. G. Reimann, who threw in his own school
of music as a nucleus when the Conserya-
torium was founded 30 years ago. The
chief mission of Davies is to secure a suc-
cessor to Clive Carey, whose work is being
carried on meanwhile by Frederick Bevan
in the choral and Winsloe Hall on the oper-
atic side.
C. 11. Holmes, chairman of the Victorian
Railways Betterment and Publicity Board,
who is to take charge of the big tourist
publicity scheme for Australia, is a young
man capable of putting some ginger into
the job. His work in the post he now occu-
pies has shown enough original thought to
warrant the new appointment.
Though born on the old sod, Mons.ignor
Long, of Wellington (N.S.W.), who recently
celebrated half a century of priesthood, did
his ecclesiastical studies at Bathurst. When
he was ordained in 1877 he looked after an
area that extended from Balranald to the
Queensland border, and from the border of
S. Australia to the Dividing Range. Forty
priests cover the same stretch now.
N.S.W. Methodies’ new president, Rev. H.
E. Andrews, claims a direct clerical descent
from a disciple of John Wesley—James
Roberts, whose forebears were among the
warm nonconformists of pre-Cromwell days.
Andrews has spent 36 of his 60 years in
Australia, and was a considerable cricketer
in his younger days. To-day chess is his
lay passion.
A man who has sunk more innocent ship-
ping in his time than many a German sub-
marine captain is Tom Mooney, boatswain
of the Melbourne tug Minali. Among Ins
victims have been the steamers Buninyong
and Malaita and five R.A.N. submarines.
The condemned Coogee, one time crack pas-
senger-ship between Victoria and the Speck,
was added to his list the other day.
Philip Middleton, who was killed on a
S.A. railway when a sudden flood derailed
the engine on which he was fireman, served
on the Australia and the Warrego in the
war, joining the Navy in 1916 when only lo
years old. Latterly he was a crack foot-
baller and a really first-class boxer.
Probably an Australian record for Sunday-
school inarming has been put up by Miss F.
Slaney, who retired from St. Mary’s School,
Caulfield, the other day. She has been
telling Victorian children about Jonah and
the whale for 60 years.
Jack Filielly, once a force in Bananaland
politics, has nominated to contest the plebis-
cite for the Mitchell electorate, made vacant
by the death of John Payne. Nine others
are willing, including J. M. Durkin, who lost
his case against the A.W.U. some time back.
Whoever gets the A.W.U. vote will win a
safe Labor seat.
One chair of honor at the jubilee cele-
bration of the Sydney Great Synagogue has
to be vacant because of the death of Simeon
Frankel. For 39 years the old chap did the
work now carried out by H. I. Wolff as sec-
retary to the Hebrew tabernacle; lie was
past 78 when, eight years ago, he retired.
G. C. Winter, commander and D. 5.0., who
left Melbourne for the Cold Country the
other day, spent two years in the Yarra
city on loan from the Royal Navy. For a
time he commanded the naval depot ship in
Sydnev, and later took charge of H.M.A.S.
Penguin. He will probably be positioned on
,one of John Bull’s latest war-boats.
A war martyr who deserves more than
passing tribute from Britons, though he was
German, was Prince Lichnowsky, just dead
in Breslau. Karl Max von Lichnowsky held
many posts in the German diplomatic ser-
vice before going to London as Ambassador
in 1912. He was one of the few of his caste
who understood and appreciated the British
sentiment toward
Germany, and he
persistently urged
that Britain’s inten-
tions were pacific.
How he failed is a
matter of history.
He left Londo n
broken - hearted at
the rupture he had
so strenuously
striven to prevent.
His reputation as
a sympathiser with
British peace aspi-
rations followed
him back to the
Fatherland; he was
ostracised and took
refuge for years in
Switzerland, but
returned to his
Silesian home to
die.
KEITH
MURDOCH,
editor-in-chief
of the Herald
and associated
journals,
Melbourne,
whose engage-
ment has just
been announced .
Although there is a natural doubt about
the age of aboriginal antiques, local belief
was firm'that Queen Mary Golding, of Hus-
kisson, who died last, week, was at least
five years over the hundred. The N.S.W.
South Coast districts are ancient settle-
ments, but the oldest inhabitants there recall
the departed Mary as an identity of their
childhood. King Jimmy, her regal spouse,
died years ago. Mary lived with daughters
nearly as old-looking as herself on the Cur-
rambime Creek.
MUNGINDI BOB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A capital fellow was Mungindi Bob,
And none ever called him a slacker;
A maif who could do any kind of a job
That offered from Mooni to Pelican Knob,
But wherever you met him—on his pat, in
a mob—
’Twas “Give us a pipe o’ terbacker.”
He was always an affable sort of a chap,
Though beyond any woman to catch;
If you called at the humpy marked his on
the map
He’d find you a scrap and provide you with
nap,
But every five minutes his pipe he would tap,
. And say to you, “Lend us a match.”
Don’t think In? Was mean or a miser, I pray,
Such a notion I couldn’t endorse;
He reaped all the pleasure that came in his
way;
At the show or the races he’d make it a (lay;
But ere lie set out Twas a moral he’d say:
“Old chap, kin you lend me a horseV”
In the township he looked like a person of
rank,
Though he certainly wasn’t a snob;
He’d shout for the crank from the Seven-mile
Tank
As soon as he would for the man at the bank,
But in the next minute he’d tickle bis flank
And whisper him, “Lend us a bob.”
Though rather too free and a little too fast,
lie was always a sociable type;
But a gulf came between us, a gulf that was
vast;
Our mateship was blasted, our friendship
was past,
And our lots ever after divergently cast,
’Cause I ventured to raise an objection at
last
When he wanted to borrow my pipe.
N.s.w.
E.S. SORENSON.


IT PAYS TO INVEST IN
Pioneer
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE 1858.
This famous power transmitter has maintained the leading position for nearly 70 years.
Made and Guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd.. 107-109
' Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QDEENSLAND: Hoey, Try, Ltd.,
Edward Street. Brisbane:
Burns, Philp tc Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Mclvell and
Sons, Timpson Street. Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street. Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards A
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
A Co.. Christchurch.
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Bafeiy Puss
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadfields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and ].
Foundries J
Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch [ 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic,
Office j T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The New Zealand Refrigerating Co.,
Ltd., formerly the Christchurch Meat Co.,
one of the big freezing concerns of Maori-
land:—
To Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918. . 66,479 14 p.c. = 41,100 25,379 285,320
£50,000 of internal reserves disclosed 1 „ OA
£300,000 of reserves transferred to capital j 0
1919.. 147,940 16Jp.c. = 75,000 72,940 108,260
1920.. 80,802 124 „ „ 76,000 5,502 114,062
1921.. 48,727 8 „ „ 48,000 727 114,789
1922.. 48,484 61 „ „ 37,600 10,984 125,773
1928.. 49,103 61 „ „ 37,500 11,603 137,376
1924.. 59,163 61 „ „ 37,500 21,603 159,039
1925.. 38,329 6i „ „ 37,500 829 159,868
Goodwill item, £36,310 .. .. .. 123,558
Written off goodwill, £12,103 .. .. 135,661
Loss.
1926.. 7,412 Nil 128,249
Written off goodwill, £12,103 .. 140,352
Profit.
1927.. 48,486 74 p.c. = 47,723 763 141,115
A steady market, heavy slaughterings and
a record shipment of lambs helped the man-
agement to write a net profit equal to 7.6 p.c.
on capital compared with a loss, and then a
profit of 6.4, 9.9 and 8.2 p.c. back to 1923.
Not a very attractive showing. Still, few
jumbucks put on weight as this co. did when
the British meat-purchase scheme made the
Maoriland freezing and export trade so lucra-
tive. The board was then able to tuck a
little away in places where it was not
obtrusive, and by 1918 the outlook had be-
come so rosy that £50,000 was brought from
hiding and together with most of the visible
accumulations, capitalised. Thus paid capi-
tal, which was doubled, reached £600,000.
And that makes the average 4.8 p.c. to share-
holders over the last five years worth a great
deal more to old holders, notwithstanding
that some of the earlier cash-paid issue was
got in at a 50 p.c. premium.
#•••••
But conditions in the industry have
changed greatly since. Although this co.
operates in one of the best lamb- and mutton-
producing areas in the world, competition is
very keen, and that means fine margins. In
fact, they have been so narrow that a
number of the small operators have been
frozen out of the business. That helped the
turnover of the survivors. In the past five
years this co.’s turnover has more than
doubled in both volume and value, the chair-
man says; moreover, operating costs have
been reduced. Last year’s management
charges are said to have been actually less
than they were five years back, and their
ratio to turnover the lowest in the co.’s
history. But obviously there is not a great
deal in the business these days. What makes
last year’s recovery the more remarkable is
the fact that for the 12 months ended Sept.
30 Maoriland shipped to the U.K. 270,000
fewer mutton carcases than in the previous
year, and the consignments of beef
(137,000qr5.) dropped to less than half the
1926 figure. Even more disquieting is the in-
crease in mutton and, of course, beef ship-
ments from S. America. Because of this, and
the fact that shareholders went hungry in
the 1926 term, the board called only 5 p.c.
of this latest distribution dividend ; the other
2i p.c. is labelled bonus. However, given
steady markets, the co. can win fair returns,
the board believes.
There is a reserve for depreciation of
investments and for contingencies included
with sundry creditors (£388,482). The
position has changed as follows:
1915. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Liabilities .. £307,385 £699,379 £730,799 £538,482
Fixed assets.. 273,522 755,545 771,103 770,872
Other assets.. 542,587 726,201 724,256 576,851
Liabilities also include a debenture debt of
£150,000; most of it has been with the co.
since the beginning of this century. The
co.’s five works are reported to be in good
order, and fixed assets are probably in at a
conservative figure. During the year £12,103,
equal to one-third of the original cost, was
written off the book value of the Wanganui
Meat Co.’s scrip, reducing it to £12,103.
These shares have no saleable value, and it
is intended to wipe out the item altogether
next year. The debenture held over the
Pukeuri Freezing Works, which were sold
in 1922, remains unaltered at £132,500.
Freehold, plant, etc., wasi a trifle lower at
£770,872.
How the current year will pan out it is
impossible to say. Thus far competition
for live stock has been keen, but London
buyers are holding off. Also indications
are that last year’s record shipments of
lamb will be exceeded, and S. American
consignments are on the increase, all of
which does not look very promising for
prices. The market values the fully-paids at
around 18s. The return at that price is a
shade under 7 p.c. on a 6J p.c. div. basis.
Excluding the Wanganui interests the net
tangible backing amounts to 245., mostly in
plant.
* * * *
The Greater J. D. Williams Amuse-
ment Co. (Sydney) :
To Ke- Nominal
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 7,450 24 p.c. = 4,513 2,937 61,813
1919.. 877 3i „ „ 6,769 55,921
1920.. 18,764 10 „ „ 18,051 713 56,634
1921.. 22,394 5 „ „ 9,025 13,369 70,003
1922. . 7,101 6i „ „ 11,282 65,822
1923.. 7,142 6i „ „ 11,282 61,082
1924.. 20,369 10 „ „ 18,051 2,318 64,000
1925.. 17,712 10 „ „ 18,051 63,601
1926.. 17,426 10 „ „ 18,051 63,036
Profit on sale shares, £l5OO .. 64,536
1927.. 18,382 10 p.c. = 18,051 331 64,867
On the figures the 10 p.c. looks liberal. But
Greater J. D. Williams is mainly a holding
concern, having displaced £63,700 of good-
will with shares in Union Theatres, Ltd., and
Australasian Films, Ltd. —£07,500 in each —
in 1913. The launching of this combine, in
which Wests’, Spencers’, Amalgamated and
Taits’ are also interested, saved the co. from
what looked uncommonly like approaching
ruin. But progress has been slow; over the
next decade shareholders averaged only s*}
p.c., and since then 10 p.c. has been paid,
though the £18,382 netted last year was only
10.1 p.c. on capital compared with 9.0, 9.8
and 11.3 p.c. back to 1924. A profit of £l5OO
was made on the sale of scrip held in the.
E. and E. Co. (N.Z.), and this was tossed
into reserves. The sale reduced the holdings
in unspecified cos., at par, to £5OO, and the
money was promptly reinvested with Union
Theatres, Ltd. The result was that interest
earnings (£3006) moved up £393. In all the
co. has £38,540 bearing interest with the two
operating cos.
The next comparison shows what the
various investments have turned in during
the last few years:—
1924. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Rents .. .. £11,045 £11,559 £11,332 £8,802
Dividends .. .. 14,338 9,750 10,725 13,975
Interest .. .. 2,143 2,810 2,673 3,066
Total .. .. £27,526 £24,119 £24,730 £25,843
Apparently the combine has lately been dis-
tributing a little more. Last year £13,975
was received in divs., equal to 7.1 p.c. on the
face value of the total holdings in other
cos., compared with 5.3 p.c. and 4.8 p.c. in
the two preceding years. According to the
prospectus of Union Theatres Investments,
Ltd., the comDineci net profits of Union
Theatres and Australasian Films were
£83,609, £91,815 and £103,622 for the three
years to June 30, 1926, or an average of
nearly 15J p.c. on their combined paid capi-
tal. That, of course, gives this co.’s 10 p.c.
div. a different complexion. But net tangible
assets in the two operating cos. amounted
to only 10s. 9d. per share and even that
was subject to any goodwill there may be
in £106,221 of investments. Subject to that,
Greater J. D. Williams shares have a net
tangible backing of about 17s. 2d. after allow-
ing for the final div.
Here is the position as the balance-sheet
discloses it: —
1925. 1926. 1927.
Paid capital .. .. £180,506 £180,506 £180,506
Liabilities .. .. 24,200 22,997 23,433
Freeholds, leaseholds . . 34,442 35,095 34,759
Shares in other cos. .. 199,500 199,500 195,500
Advances to combine
cos '.. 32,551 33,896 38,540
Furniture, etc. .. 2,760 734 725
Cash, book debts, etc. .. 11,838 10,531 12,448
The debt is made up of a mortgage of
£lB,OOO on the Melba Theatre freehold,
£4BOO in debentures and £633 owing on open
account. The value of the scrip as an invest-
ment_ is governed by the earnings of the
combine, and these showed steady improve-
ment for the three years ended 1926. The
new picture-house now being built by Union
Theatres, Ltd., in Sydney must be calling for
a lot of money, and shareholders in the
holding cos. have not been asked for any of
it. When the new theatre is opened revenue
should swell, but to what extent distributions
are likely to benefit,, if at all. remains to be
seen. The market is satisfied with prospects
and offers 245. 3d. At that price the return
is 8.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
* * * *
The Moreton Central Sugar Mill Co.,
Ltd. (Q.), which has been in the business
in the Nambour district for the past 34
years:—
t *<* . . To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves
£ £ £ £
1925.. 32,695 10 p.c. = 8792 23,903 38 224
Reserves capitalised, £21,978 .. 16 246
Dec.,
1925.. 5,632 7 p.c. = 8055 13,823
Loss
1926.. 406 Nil 13 417
Profit.
1927.. 526 Nil 13,943
It was not always like that; very com-
fortable returns were won during the period
of Government purchase, and the div. was
pushed up from 8 p.c. to 10 p.c. in 1919.
In the following year alterations were made
in the capital account; the ss. shares were
amalgamated into fl shares, then £34.212 of
reserves were capitalised by the issue of
51,318 new £1 shares paid to 13s. 4d.
each. Capital thus became £74.734, and
the lay-by was reduced to £4251. The pros-
perity continued. Under exceptional con-
ditions a record net profit of £32,695 was
written for the 13 months to January, 1925,
and in its haste to repeat the gift-giving the
board again dipped into reserves, this time
for £21,978, and handed out a one-in-four
bonus. Then crushings became seriously
lighter, juices were refractory, the heavy
export surplus began to affect earnings and
changes and additions were made to the plant.
This comparison shows what has happened
in the business :
Cane Sugar Manu- Sugar and
Crushed factured By-product Cost
Tons. Tons. Sales. per ton.
1924.. 80,076 10,265 £275,743 £24 12 0
1925.. 83,279 9,612 193,272 19 3 4
1926.. 57,701 0,743 155,335 ' 23 510
1927.. 46,355 5,917 130,266 22 110
Floods were mainly responsible for the
drop of 11,346 tons in last year’s crushings,
and that followed a shrinkage of 25,57 S
tons in the cane put through the rollers in
the previous term. If the plant which is
capable of handling about 100,000 tons of
cane in a season, cannot get more than
half a meal, nothing very much can be
expected in the way of profits, which, despite
a cut of 245. in manufacturing costs,
amounted to only £1467 last year, and £1431
of that was the result of an under-estimate
in the previous year. Also only £10,429
was struck off for depreciation of the
mill building and plant as against
£12,239 a year earlier. The sawmill has
also been a burden of late ; it made a loss
of £960 last year compared with a small
profit (£634) in 1926. Efforts are being
made to quit the present stock of timber
(£4218), and the mill is not to be reopened
until conditions become more favorable. A
profit of £319 on the sale of part of the
property was offset by £3OO struck off as an
anticipated loss on the sale of horse and bul-
lock teams. After providing £3425 for de-
preciation, which was £516 more than was
provided in 1926, the tramway came out
exactly square on the year’s operations.
The financial position has changed con-
siderably in the last few years:—
, . 1924. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Paid capital .. £90,260 £115,752 £116,816 £118,056
Overdraft . . 21,534 116,425 124,058
Sundry creditors 9,849 8,385 36,206 3,654
Lan <i •• •• 3,870 3,288 3,318 3,145
Mills, plant, etc. 113,957 135,921 237,376 229,964
Stocks . . . . 4,786 5,977 8,670 6,760
Book debts . . 29,700 31,649 34,401 20 714
Cash, etc. .. 4,812 600 89 ’79
The board drew upon liquids, added £7633
to the overdraft (£124,058), and reduced
sundry creditors (£3654) by £32,552 during
the year. Stocks, book debts, cash, etc., tot
up to £27,553; thus the excess of liabilities
over more or less liquids was £100,159, or
£9312 lighter than it was a year earlier.
Although the Commonwealth has renewed the
sugar agreement for another three years
from August 31 next, the market is not im-
pressed with the co.’s prospects; sellers ask
9s. 6d. for the scrip without attracting buyers.
A year ago 14s. was asked. The net tangible
backing amounts to 225. 4d., all of it in
plant, worth what it can earn.
* * * *
The Shamrock Brewing and Malting
Co. (Melbourne) :
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 9,852 11 p.c. = 8,638 1214 20,653
1922.. 10,408 13 „ „ 10,208 200 20,853
1923.. 10,660 14.6 „ ~ 11,484 20 029
1924.. 12,808 14.6 „ „ 11,484 1324 21!.353
1925.. 13,222 14.6 „,, 11,484 1738 23,091
1926.. 15,665 17 „,, 13,349 2316 25,407
1927.. 15,792 17 ~ ~ 13,349 2443 27,850
The steady climb in profits reflects the ex-
pansion in the divs. received from the co.’s
holdings in Carlton and United Breweries.
At Dec. 31 these stood in the books at
£84,780, made up of 72,500 ords. and 3625
prefs. at par, and 6924 prefs. at a premium
of ss. The co.’s other assets are a solitary
hotel freehold, in at £4301; cash, book debts
and advances total £19,386; and there was
still £5OOO owing on the old Collingwood
brewery and malt-house premises, sold in
1917. It was one of the beer-making plants
that were not wanted when the combine was
formed, and the depreciation in value—it
was not worth cost for any other purpose—
represented part of the goodwill loading in
the £72,500 in C.U.B. shares (face value)
handed over to this co.
It is only in the. past half-dozen years
or so that shareholders have had anything
really juicy. Nevertheless their position is
now very snug; over the last five years divs.
have averaged 15J p.c., compared with an
average of 10.2 p.c. in the preceding five
years, and additions to visible reserves have
been £7821 during the last four years. The
£15,792 netted last year was 20.1 p.c. on
capital (£78,525) compared with 19.9, 10.8,
10.3 and 13.6 p.c. back to 1923, and margins
are widening. This comparison shows what
the co.’s investments turn in:—
0.U.8. Interest, C.U.B. Interest,
Dividends. etc. Dividends. etc.
1918.. £5,822 £1213 1923.. £11.912 £1350
1919.. 5,822 1241 1924.. 12,431 1269
1920.. 7,997 1312 1925.. 12,950 11"2
1921.. 9,157 1340 1926.. 15,027 1364
1922.. 10,009 1236 1927.. 15,027 1560
The C.U.B. last year netted £439,521, which
was £29,261 more than the previous year’s
profit, and equal to 224 p.c. on the £1,950,000
of paid capital. The div. was lifted from
16| p.c. to 174 p.c.—only 7 p.c. was paid
in 1919—and things had not to be cut fine
to do it either; £98,271 of the declared net
earnings was sent to reserves, making them
£1,072,503 —subject to £BOO,OOO, which was
paid for the goodwill, etc., of the vendor
breweries. But apart from that the net
tangible backing for the prefs. was £ll 2s.
3d., and for the ords. 235. Id. In addition
there is the hidden strength, reasonably sus-
pected of being substantial. Last yeiir the
net reduction in breweries, plant, etc-
(£628,589) was £54,761; but £58,605 was
added to hotel freeholds (£454,403). Net
liquids totted up to £1,312,092. Although
the Dry Army has not abandoned the
struggle there are few really drab patches in
the co.’s present outlook. So, all things
considered, it is not surprising that Sham-
rock scrip is tightly held. It has a visible
backing of 275. Id. in net tangibles, and
there is, of course, a tidy inner reserve in
the C.U.B. shares.
* * * *
Cessnock Collieries, Ltd. (N.S.W.),
which in a reconstruction last year changed
its name from Wickham and Bullock Island
Coal Co.: —
, Dividends. ,
Prefs.
U 24 Writ- Ke-
Mar., Profit, p.e.). Ordinary. ten Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1918.. 15,649 2500 74 p.c. = 6,750 5,749 7,616
1919.. 13,478 2500 8 „ „ 7,200 3,778 7,616
1920. . 19,014 2500 9 „ ~ 8,100 8,213 7,817
Net To Re-
Profit. serves.
1921.. 21,217 2500 10 „ „ 9,000 9,717 17,534
1922. ._ 32,841 2500 10 „ „ 9,000 „„
Reserved for taxes, £lO,OOO .. J 11 >44l 2»,5,0
1923.. 15,215 2500 10 p.c. = 9,000 3,715 32,590
1924.. 13,657 2500 10 „ „ 9,000 2,057 34,647
Reserve taken in, £12,994 .. .. 47,641
16 p.c.
1925.. 20,983 3000 15 p.c.= 13,500 4,483 52,124
124 p.c.
1926.. 11,500 2500 10 „ „ 9,000 52,124
15 p.c.
1927.. 19,072 3000 15,, ~ 13,500 2,572 54,696
Co. reconstructed.
Assets written up, £110,304 .. 165,000
Dec Transferred to capital, £165,000 ..
1927*. 17,500 5 p.c. = 13,750 3,750 3,750
*Nine months.
The old co. had a paid capital of £llO,OOO
in 20,000 124 p.c. prefs. and 90,000 ords.
In the reconstruction the lot were exchanged
for an equal number of fully-paid ords. in
the new co. Then the assets, which proved
to be more valuable than the old co. admitted,
were written up £110,304, which, together
with £54,696 of reserves, provided a gift of
£165,000 in the shape of 330,000 £1 shares
in the new co. paid to 10b. each. That is to
say, for every 20s. worth of scrip in the
old co. shareholders got scrip in the new
co. with a face value of £4 paid to £2 10s.
The new co. thus has a paid capital of
£275,000, and there is £165,000 at call to
finance development as soon as conditions in
the trade admit. The latest accounts cover
the nine months to Dec. 31. Therefore the
£17,500 netted is at the rate of 8.4 p.c. p.a.
on the present paid-up capital, or 21.2 p.c.
p.a. on capital as it stood before the recon-
struction, compared with 17.3 p.c. in the
previous term, and that despite the present
uneasy condition of the trade. Only once
since the beginning of this century, in 1922,
has the disclosed annual net profit climbed
to a bigger figure. The 5 p.c. distributed
was equal to 12$ p.c. on the old capital, but
oyer one-fifth of the net earnings for the
nine months remained in the business.
The co. has been one of the most con-
sistent profit-earners in the industry. The
writing-up does not appear to have been
overdone ; under the circumstances 8.4 p.c. p.a.
is not a bad return on capital, and thi profit
was written after provision had been made
for taxation and depreciation. Hitherto
allowances under the latter head appear to
have been liberal. Visible support is, of
course, now negligible, but exes. (£125,599
for the nine months) have been kept in hand.
On an annual basis they consumed 87.8 p.c.
of the gross profit compared with 89.1 p.c.
for the 12 months to March 31 last. The
co.’s three pits are all on the Maitland field.
Cessnock and Neath are good producers; the
former is on a 74ft. clean seam of some of
the best coal in the State. At Kalingo labor
troubles of one kind and another have held
up development for the past few years.
With costs steadily mounting and the coal


ENERyALL ofvJ
stages
of man’s refreshment
ŵ
DETERMINATION
ft
m
antic"*" 0 "
delectation
F I CATION
grati
TOOTH'S
□
a true LAGER
Brewed and Bottled by TOOTH & Co. LIMITED, Kent Brewery, Sydney\
g ora t, oaj
)W
§5
a
/>
\h
i,


PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY OF N.S.W., LTD.
Your estate is built up by years of close attention to your interests—you
make your Will and feel you have done your best for your dependants.
BUT —have you any guarantee that the Executor you have appointed will
live to carry out the duties imposed upon him by your Will, or that he will
always be available to render to your dependants the services that as an Executor
he owes them ?
THIS COMPANY never dies or travels, is always available, and, once
appointed, it continues to act until the termination of the Trust.
Our interesting Booklet will be sent post free on request.
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
F. N. Yarwood (Chairman).
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge.
James Moir.
O. E. Friend.
Thos. Buekland.
permanence
CAPITAL:
Subscribed. .£1,000,000
Paid Up . . £1 1 0,000
Uncalled . . £890,000
Don’t LoscYoarMoncy
CONSULT
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly’
ABOUT YOUR INVESTMENTS.
EXPERTS’ ADVICE GIVEN IN
ALL DEPARTMENTS.
MARCH NUMBER
NOW READY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
ẁ
Ye Jolly Abbot.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
1 JNFILTERED WATER
contains innumerable
noxious germs, besides being
discolored and unpleasant to
drink.
To ensure purity see that
all cylinders (the filtering
medium) are branded
“Abbot.” The “Abbot” is
approved by all Boards of
Health.
ABBOT FILTERS,
Pressure and Drip.
Obtainable at All Stores.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 10 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
market narrowing, the board doubtless is in
no great hurry to get a second shaft down.
Since the co. put the book value of its
assets into hiding, balance-sheet figures don't
tell much:—
, March- Dec.,
1924. 1926. 1927. 1927.
£ £ £ £
Debentures .. 49,236 ) r , 8 ql smoi
Other liabilities 56,230 ) 93>d48 91>4dl 80 ’ 194
Mines, plant, etc. 176,033 •
Coal .. . . 1,402
Stores .. . . 1,704
Deposits at call 7,875 ooc oin 9‘in mos 350 396
Deposits, fixed 30,359 | 238,219 230,500 300,39 b
War loans . . 15,371 |
Cash in hand 12 |
Investments, etc. 8,770 J
Book debts . . 26,065 20,258 23,424 21,044
Cash . . . . 12,166 2,954 6,967 1,254
The increase of £113,891 in the big blanket
item is nearly all accounted for by the
writing-up. A pleasing feature is the down-
ward trend of liabilities. What the future
of the trade will be is largely in the hands
of the miners. When conditions warrant
the further development of Kalingo, profits
should benefit. The fully paids were recently
on offer at par, and the contribs. at 9s. 6d.
s|c Ms Ms Ms
The prospectus of the Mercantile Bank, of
Australia, Ltd., has been published in Sydney.
Nominal capital is £2,000,000 in 200,000
prefs. and 200,000 ords. The public is offered
50,000 prefs. and 100,000 ords., the latter at
par; and the prefs., which have priority as to
capital, carry a cumulative 8 p.c. and advance
with the ords. beyond that rate, at a
premium of £l. On both lots the money is
wanted 10s. each application and allotment,
and then 10 monthly calls of 25.; thereafter
no further call to be made for at least one
year. When the premium (£50,000 on the
present issue) is payable is not stated, but
it is to be used to meet cost of establishment.
Thus the immediate aim is a subscribed capi-
tal of £750,000, of which £300,000 will be
called.
The bank will extend to manufacturers and
traders facilities not obtainable to-day, the
prospectus says. This is a pretty clear
implication that the public will be given
something which it cannot get from existing
banks, and that involves a careful inquiry
as to whether there is not to be a departure
from the canons of sound finance. Lately the
trading banks have tightened up on advances,
particularly in connection with the
financing of t.-p. It may be that the new
bank will get busy here. No new commercial
bank has been formed for more than
quarter of a century past, the pros-
pectus asserts. The Primary Producers’
Bank registered in Queensland, Feb., 1923,
and has its head office in Sydney. At Feb.
28, 1927, its subscribed capital was
£2,452,866, of which £413,849 was paid up.
The £5 shares, which are paid to £l, were
issued at a premium of £l, and at the end
of its fourth year the “YVild Cat” figured
the cost of establishment and development
at £335,218. Another claim is that the pro-
fits made by banks are usually high. As
a matter of fact, they are extraordinarily
low. At last balance the accounts of the
Commercial of Sydney showed a net 6.3 p.c.
on capital and reserves, and the E., S. and
A. showed a net 7.1 p.c., and there are
strong inner reserves in each case.
Management is to be in the hands of an
experienced banker (unnamed) ; brokerage
is down at 5 p.c.; and the directors’ quali-
fication is £5OO. Application is to be made
to list the scrip. On the board are Edward
Lucas (late Avent-General of S. Aus.), Percy
Freeman, Arthur C. Ilopwood, Harold C.
Macfie.
M= * * *
No mine in N. S. Wales of late has had
more systematic testing than the Lake
George has had under the direction of
Frederick L. Thomas. Apart from making,
accessible some 4000 feet of old drives, cross-
cuts, and rises in the unstoped ground of
the lower levels of Elliott’s section, some
1500 feet of developmental extensions have
been carried out, and also 8000 feet of
diamond drilling. The idea has been to indi-
cate the continuity of the lode, starting
from the ore body in the old workings. The
lowest level (No. 6) averages 21.9 p.c. lead,
zinc and copper for a width of 20 feet. Three
holes at a mean vertical depth of 210 feet
below No. 6 level average rather higher. A
run of much higher values is exposed in the
capping of sulphide in the middle section,
which is now being drilled. In the southern
section (Keating’s) three drills have been
put down to an average of 440 feet, giving
an average gross lead, zinc and copper value
of 21.3 p.c. for 16J feet. Alternatively a
much larger width and tonnage is proved
for a somewhat low grade. The reserves now
exceed 1,100,000 tons of an average 21.5
p.c. metal, with further large prospective
tonnages. The proved section has a capacity
of 280,000 tons per lift of 100 feet, apart
from the lower grade ore in Keating’s section.
Experts have been engaged on the metal-
lurgical aspect during the past 12 months,
and high recoveries have been obtained by
standard methods. This has been definitely
demonstrated. With the absence of arsenic
and fluorine, the pyritic contents are valuable
for manufacture of sulphuric acid and super-
phosphates ; the ore contains 30 p.c. sulphur.
The field costs are estimated at 30s. per
ton of crude ore. There is cheap wood for
power production if power from Burrin-
juck (via Canberra) is not made available.
Conditions, it is estimated, at Lake George
give an advantage of 22 per cent, over those
prevailing at Broken Hill. Without a rail-
way from Bungendore to Captain’s Flat the
mine would, however, be very severely
handicapped, inasmuch as the difference be-
tween road transport and railway rates on
a tonnage of 5000 to 10,000 tons concen-
trates monthly would be equivalent to from
£25,000 to £50,000 yearly, apart from freight
on large quantities of pyrites, machinery
and stores. The N.S.W. Government has
in part realised the possibilities, and
already a flying survey has be,en made and
is being followed at present by a detail
survey. The National Mining Corp. (Eng.)
has already expended £50,000, and will he
committed to a large capital outlay in the
event of equipping the property. The
Ministers for Mines and Works will shortly
visit the property.
* * * *
Lead falling below £2O a few days before
the managers and unions) resumed their
wages and conditions conference at Broken
Hill made the future so uncertain that the
managers asked for a three months’ adjourn-
ment until “the economic factor controlling
the industry had clarified,” so things are
going on as they are until May 31. The
workers attribute the low price of lead to
over-production, and therefore cannot see
that that position would be remedied by
accepting lower wages or working longer
hours. The managers, even if their log pro-
viding for less wages and longer hours were
accepted, could give no guarantee that mines
now working would not close or that there
would be no curtailment of operations.
* * * *
For some reason or other a section of the
press is being used to bring Braeside, the
Westralian silver-lead show, into the lime-
light, by connecting it with Russo-Asiatic
activities. Braeside is only a prospect, and
Leslie Urquhart says that neither he nor
Russo-Asiatic are interested in it. The Mel-
bourne yarn that Russo-Asiatic contemplated
spending more money on Braeside than on
Mt. Isa may have emanated from the bears
of the latter, who are nursing burnt fingers.
Mt. Isa is a dangerous stock to bear, as,
apart from the financial strength of those
supporting it, recent developments in selec-
tive flotation have put a more cheerful com-
plexion on the field’s potentialities, despite
the drop in metal prices.
m= m= * *
A locally-controlled board has just put
Monte Carlo’s previously muddled affairs at
Glenelg Hills in order and talks optimisti-
cally. The show, on which the co. holds an
option, has been the cause of more heart-
burning than any found in the West for a
long time. It was pegged by prospectors who
had just previously broken loose from a syn-
dicate of Perth backers. London turned it
down after spending a few thousands in de-
velopment, and then share-pusliers tried, but
failed, to make money out of it. The present
crowd claims to have something in sight and
to be able to do well when water is found
and a mill erected. A lot of semi-paid
shares have been plugged with a 6d. call, and
holders reckon that they have been hardly
done by. A free extension of the option has
been given.
* * * *
North Kalgurli’s accounts for last year
show a loss on a comparatively insignificant
production. Realisable investments are in
the sheet at £14,061, but their break-up
value is said to be more than this. At the
shareholders’ meeting in London, Jan. 13,
chairman Cutliffe, since deceased, said the
co. had been forced by a tomfool Labor Gov
eminent to man its Kalgoorlie property after
tributors had given up, and that it was wast-
ing money which should be conserved to
carry out the Federal Commission’s recom-
mendation of amalgamation with neighboring
mines. But until the question of costs was
properly tackled it was no use talking of
assisting the industry in this or any other
way.
* * * *
Westralia Mt. Morgans (W.A.) is said to
be nearing the end. For years it was one
of Westralia’s largest producers, • and its
aggregate distribution totalled hundreds of
thousands. Impoverishment occurred at a
comparatively shallow depth, and the Lon
don co. which then owned it gave up. Lat-
terly parts of the old workings have been
rooted by a local syndicate with varying
success.
* * * *
Several old burying-grounds in the West
have lately been opened up with success. In
one at Menzies a party working the Golden
Age has obtained 17170 z. gold from about
70 tons stone.
Westralia reports another influx of geo-
physical oil-finders. Some declare that Perth
is built on oil, while others reckon that
lots of it will be found by boring around
Fremantle. All that is asked is that 30U
people each buy a £lO share. Demonstra-
tions are being given, meetings addressed, and
the public advised to ignore the warnings of
pessimists and come in while the door is
open.
* * m= *
Alluvial Tin regularly publishes its work-
ing costs, and its rates are a model. For
February output maintained the January
rate for the most part; some of the shows
have dropped back, but others have improved.
liawang recovered 20 tons from 120,000 yards
with the dredge, the average falling to .401 b.,
as against ,571 b. the previous month. The
sluicing plant also slacked off, 85,000 yards
returning ,981 b., while in January, from a
little more than a third of the February
yardage, the average was 1.131 b. Costs with
the dredge were 4.2 d.; sluicing plant, 6.59 d.
Malim Nawar, supposed to include a good
deal of difficult peat ground, continues to re-
turn far below estimates. The month’s output
was 18 tons from BS,OOO yards, and average
.491 b., compared with .451 b. in January for
the same output. Malim Nawar’s costs were
6.04 d., fairly heavy as Alluvial’s subsidi-
aries go. Ivundang lias been getting near the
hoped-for output. February's recovery was
30 tons from 110,000 yards and the average
.651 b., two points better than for January.
Costs are 4.58 d. Nawar South took out 30
tons, the same as in January, but the
yardage was 140,000, as against 109,000, the
average dropping from ,661 b. to ,511 b. Work-
ing costs, 3.99 d. Kuala Kampar bucked up
and showed a return of .501 b., as against
.351 b. In each month 25 tons was produced,
but the February yardage was a good deal
less. The cost worked out at 4.62 d. Tanjong
Tualong recorded a big turnover, 200,000
yards, but only 35 tons were recovered. A
similar harvest was gathered in January, but
it came from 130,000 yards; the average
dropped from ,631 b. to .421 b. Costs, 2.65 d.,
a fine record. Changkat, the latest of Alluv-
ial’s pups to begin work, dug through 57
feet of overburden, and lias now got down
to 60 feet, where production will commence.
Selayang, the area of which was ac-
quired from F. G. Pratten and Malcolm
Newman by the British Malayan Tin Syndi-
cate, fairly opened out last month, the .dredge
turning over 104,700 yards for 21.725 tons,
a trifle under .501 b., and a point or two better
than January figures. Working costs were
4.97 d. The dredge was laid up for seyeral
days for repairs. If any trouble has been ex-
perienced with the alleged limestone pin-
nacles in this property, it has not been heard
of. Larut’s dredges got 84 tons from 335,000
yards, as compared with 94 from almost
the same yardage in January. Average costs
were 4.34 d. dropped from .681 b. to ,60lb.
Jelapang, Tanah Biji’s flotation near Ipoh
(F.M.S.), recovered 20 tons from 80,000
yards, considerably improving on the Janu-
ary returns (21 tons from 104,000 yards;
average just under ,501 b.). February's aver-
age was ,601 b. Costs, 5.42 d.
The Malay Siamese group has been exciting
interest during the past couple of weeks.
The open-cut show, Phin Soon, has met
heavy weather in the market. Nawng Pet,
the co.’s sluicing show, put through 33,000
yards for 22 tons, an average of 1.261 b.,
while the January average was 1.841 b. from
a smaller yardage. Costs were very high,
even for a sluicing concern, running to
12.1 d. But the means to dissect them are
not available: they may include other than
actual working costs. Huey Yot’s first
month’s run with the new dredge must be
considered satisfactory; 372 hours’ working
returned 23 tons from 36,000 yards, an aver-
age of 1.531 b up to estimates. No
doubt a new dredge sometimes strikes a nice
fat patch. If Iluey Yot can keep up a
return like the above, Malay Siamese should
be very well content. Here again expen-
diture was high, running to 11. Id. per
yard, but it isn’t fair to judge by a pre-
liminary gallop. Haad Yai is a proposition
over which a controversy has raged for years.
The original boring engineer, Isaac Boadle,
an acknowledged authority on Malayan tin,
found the ground to be only 25 to 26 feet
deep, and was of the opinion that the pro-
perty was not payable. The property was
bored again by D. Pasley and Harold Cundy.
These reported that Boadle had been de-
ceived by a false bottom of impacted allu-
vium which their bores had penetrated to an
average depth of over 30 feet, disclosing a
large yardage of karang returning high
values. The result of the first spell of dig-
ging—much trouble was experienced and
time lost through boiler-tube troubles—for
471 hours of work showed that 31,700 yards
were turned over and 14.3 tons of tin re-
covered. this working out at a trifle over
lib. The report states that the dredge was
down to 36 feet, which seems to indicate
that the false-bottom theory was correct.
Costs were just on 12d. Phin Soon averaged
well last month, taking out 42,181 yards for
30.4 tons of tin, which works out at 1.731 b.
I*9l- yard. Between January 2G and Febru-
ary 4 the main engine was broken down,
and repairs and working exes, were consider-
ably increased. For the next three weeks
the newly-installed plant unit was tested
under full-time conditions, with the result
that the output realised £3471 and expendi-
ture £3446. The total revenue for the month
was £4213 and the expenditure £4820.
Gloomy views as to Thin Soon’s future are
being broadcast, but in view of the fact that
the whole plant and method of working is
being reconstituted, these are not justified.
The large area has been proved to average
a high tin content, and with a more eco-
nomical method of working the gloom may
be dispelled. But more capital may be
needed.
* * * *
Takuapa dug only 70,000 yards for 23 tons
in February, as against 43 tons from 125,000
for January; the average dropped from .821 b.
to .791 b. Tongkah Compound now seems to
have both dredges running well, Mantin re-
turning 22 tons from 98,000 yards, and Setul
23 tons from 57,616 yards. The latter’s average
was a shade under .961 b. per yard compared
with January’s I.lllb. Mantin’s first dig re-
sulted in an average of ,541 b. Kuala Lumpur’s
No. 1 dredge took 24 tons from 54,000 yards,
averaging a trifle over a pound, as against
I.lllb. in January. No. 2 dredge has just
set in.


In the beginning, Goodyear
was by force of discovery
the greatest name in
rubber. To-day, by force
of utility, Goodyear is still
the greatest name in the
industry. Goodyear’s ser-
vice to the public has been
born of research and
development—b egin n i n g
with refinements of the
early pneumatic tyre and
ending, momentarily, with
building the new safe,
tractive, slow wearing
Goodyear Balloon with
the new type All-Weather
Tread.
“Go jdyear’s Greatest Tyre”
L\
w
?A
<k
0
0
l
yC"""""
,////■
**y/.
,/A
!h>.
,//M
fr^f
■m.
A
"" //
is®
rs
A
r/A
y/// h,
v/Jb ■
mm \
i « IM//-
r>\
%
i 1
w<
V*
1
AAy- \ \
mM,
A '/"W//////A
/ i
/ A
"
mmmml
x
ft /(If
iNJ
W\
/
' /
:// /
% f \? y.**
xf a
///
4 %
; '»/ V ;
.. /,«* ..


Si ; P
' *’ r ’-"'
V v)
.
mmsm
"'-V'
“Ah! But they re Comfortable!
w
He always wore a nine, till he
tried a J. H. Sharwood wide eight
ŵ
M AYBE you, too, have a wide
foot, and to secure the width
wear a shoe at least a full size too
big. Try one of the J. H. Sharwood
wide lasts such as the “Oregon” or
“Bespoke” shown above. There’s
a whole range of varied shapes from
which to choose. Simply remember
the name of the last and the size,
and you’ll be assured of the same
satisfaction always.
No matter how stout your foot may
be—there’s a J. H. Sharwood shape
to fit it.
Every woman knows that J. H.
Sharwood Shoes are without an
equal. The same fine qualities are
built into the men’s. They are of
dignified design and will usually
wear as long as two pairs of other
makes.
The salesman who offers some other
brand alleged to be ’ just as good ’
has his own interests at heart —not
yours. Decline substitutes, and look
for the name on every pair.
OBTAINABLE
LEADING STORES
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA.
ẁ
Made in HALF-
SIZES - - MEN’S
and WOMEN’S - -
BOOTS & SHOES
jfaultlm Jnotfoffir.
Any difficulty in procuring will be overcome by getting into touch with the J. H. Shorwood Service Bureau,
Abbotsford, Melbourne.


Whatever you do at Easter
ŵ
ROSS
GLASSES
Can Add Immensely
to the Pleasure.
For sportsmen, racegoers, tourists,
theatregoers, yachtsmen, campers
there is the perfect Ross model most
adapted to their special needs.
On Sale at Leading Jewellers. Prices range from £lO.
Australian Agents:—
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES.
CASH ONLY.
*S uch a reputation is not won overnight”
a: iJin
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d ♦ . ♦ ♦ 20 for 1/6
Major Drapkin d? Co., London. Branch of The United Kingdom Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
AGORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“B-Gar”: I recently dined at a table oppo-
site to an abo. and a person of my own
color. The white discarded his fork and
did practically the whole business with liis
knife. The table manners of the abo., on
the other hand, were perfect until the jug-
gling of the hard-boiled peas tricked him.
He soon overcame this difficulty. Calling
for a glass he scooped the peas into it, and
swallowed them, remarking as an after-
thought : “That’s the bast way to yard ’em.”
* * * *
“Wang”: Dan gazed meditatively at a
couple of flies busy at a drop of beer on
the bar counter. “I’ve heard fellers argue
that flies don’t get drunk,” he said, “but
they do. It was through some of the pests
gettin’ on the wallop that the best little
sly-grog joint I ever knew was cruelled. The
MORE OF THESE ABORIGINAL WEAPONS.
THE TOURIST: “And what may that be, Mister?”
THE AGRONOMIST: “That be an arrer, my boy.”
THE TOURIST: “An arrow? Deah me! I wonder what the bow is like?”
place was called Snaky Gully, an th’
nearest pub was 10 mile away. There was
sev’ral married men livin’ there, an’ they
an’ the other blokes useter get tergether at
night at Dad Simmons’s humpy. Some of
the fools didn’t know when t knock off, so
their missuses kicked up a row an put the
p'lice on the track. The Johns paid several
visits to Dad’s humpy; but though they
searched high an’ low they couldn t find as
mudh as a spoonful of booze. v\ hat, got
’em puzzled was that the humpy stood way
by itself in an open paddick. The on y
tree about was a big red-gum. Dad had
built his crib 'gainst it, an’ the butt of it
formed one end of the kipsy. The plice dug
up the floor of the place, but there wasn t
no cellar t’ be found. But the booze was
there, orl right—plenty of it. Well, one hot
night when there was a crowd in the kipsy
a coupler Johns blowed in. The flies was
pretty bad, an’ one of
the Johns, flickin’ at
one, knocked it on t’
the table, where it lay
on its back. Drunk as
40 cats, it was. Then
he takes a step to-
wards the tree butt
an’ starts peerin’ hard.
At one spot there’s a
lot of flies heaped
t’gether an’ ev’ry now
an’ then one’d fall t’
the floor. The John
pulls a pencil from his
pocket an’ pokes at
the spot where the
flies was —an’ th’ game
was up. The red-gum
was holler as a drum,
an’ when he poked his
pencil into a crack a
square of bark falls
out, exposin’ the spigot
of a beer barrel. All
Dad useter do was t’
lower the barrel down
the holler trunk from
outside an’ drive the
spigot inter it from' inside. But fer them
flies gettin’ tight it would never have bin
found out.”
* * * *
“T.V.T.”: In commenting on my lines,
“A breath of musk and hazel from scrub-
lands wet with dew,” “Maunga” (B.
8/2/’2B) is evidently under the impression
that I meant the small yellow-flowering
variety of creek musk, which, he state's, has
practically disappeared from the bush. I do
not know if that is so, but the tree musk,
the large and sturdy variety to which I re-
ferred, is still plentiful in many parts of
Gippsland. Its wood, by the way, makes ex-
cellent firewood when dry.
* * * *
“Pat Aediles”: A Westralian shearer,
busy on a heavy-woolled ram, felt a hard
lump on the belly. On opening up the fleece
he found a live quail, fully grown. Appa-
rently the bird had crept for shelter into the
long wool while the ram was lying down
and had remained there when jumbuck was
driven to the shed. Is this unique?
* » * * *
“Pigcat”: “Yufu” refers to the homing
instincts of bullocks (B. 12/l/’2B). They
may be good ; but he’s needlessly disparaging
horses when he says bullocks can beat ’em.
In the early part of this century a number
of working horses were sent from Gumbardo
(Q.) to Warbreccan station. Gumbardo is
30 miles the other side of Adavale; War-
breccan is 35 miles this side of Stonehenge,
And there are 150 miles, several rivers, a
multitude of sheep-fences and several rabbit-
fences in between. Yet nearly half those
horses made home again. From our point of
view, and by the decision of the Land Court,
Warbreccan was infinitely better country. But
those TTB horses wanted to go home, and
home they went. That’s just one instance out
of many; and here’s an odd one. In May,
1908, I was taking a number of horses from
Warbreccan to Longreach for the show. First
night I camped at Evangie, an out-station.
A little grey trotter, Frown, was let go at
THE SHADOW SHOW.
DAD: “I think he’s a shady cove.”
DADSON: “Too right. Turn yer back an’ he’s under a tree in no time.”
sundown in the Evangie horse-paddock. At
sunrise next morning she was yarded out of
the horse-paddock at the homestead, 30 miles
distant. In between were seven sheep-fences,
one cattle-fence, and two which were sup-
posed to be rabbit-proof.
* * * *
“Cooramin” : The brush-prints of the rock
and fence-rail artist confront the wanderer
in all sorts of queer places, even along the
far tracks of the bush. One sarcastic
humorist came upon an old black horse
grazing upon a quiet flat by the river near
Wagga. The horse was very poor, and no
doubt the artist realised that its days of
active work were over. Anyhow, he painted
on one side of the derelict, in blue letters,
“Use Knagg’s Horse Rugs” ; and across his
opposite ribs, in white, “Try Baldhead s
Hair Restorer.”
* * * *
“Borom”: “Veronal” is wrong in ascrib-
ing the circlet of twisted cane on the end
of a rod, with a spike at the back of it,
to the New Guinea connoisseur in heads (B.
19/l/’2B). The thing is, in fact, peculiar to
the Dyak head-hunters of Borneo and those
of a few of the adjoining islands. I have,
however, seen in New Guinea something
faintly resembling the device described —a
sort of cane hoop about a foot in diameter,
around which was set a series of small bone
spikes pointing inwards. The object was
to enable heads to be carried after they
had been removed, the spikes keeping them
in position. Sometimes it was attached, for
convenience in carrying, to the end of a
spear, which further increased the resem-
blance to the Borneo instrument.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: Santa Claus is now a well-
known identity amongst the Roper River
(N.T.) natives, but when first he landed,
some years ago, his appearance created min-
gled wonder and consternation. In conven-
tional rig, he came along to the mission
station to hand out gifts. An awed silence
fell upon the crowd, and some went for their
lives. When they saw that Santa’s inten-
tions were peaceable they ventured on closer
examination, and speculated on where he had
come from. At daylight next morning the
boys were out trying to pick up his tracks,
but for once in their" lives were baffled; they
located the footprints of the various Euro-
pean members of the staff, but there were no
additional marks —clear indication that the
visitant was a spirit. The following year,
when another member of the staff played the
part, one of the boys crept quietly up behind
and lifted the flap at his neck. Ah, that
one he So-and-So,” the abo. said; I sayee
hair stop along back his neck!” A native
was put on to the job the next Christmas
but the other abos. weren’t taken in. They
pointed to the ground where bare footprints
showed the track from which Santa had
come. “Foot belong Tommy!” they ex-
claimed triumphantly.
sf: * *
“Sea Nomad”: Some deer were let loose
on Friday Island by a pearler. There they
thrived for years, but with small increase;
they were eventually removed to Horn
Island, mainly because of the intrusion of
one sporty buck on lady bathers. “Friday”
is a picnic spot, and repeatedly he invaded
the privacy of flappers who had retired into
the bush to disrobe. One of his famous
exploits was the treeing of three maids in
the altogether. When, however, the buck
took to charging boatloads of landing pic-
nickers, and upsetting dad and the kids into
the water, and chasing mum and the girls
up the beach, the deer were banished. For
some reason they have not thriven on the
much larger Horn Island.
* * * *
“John Quill” : Rain was threatening when
the boss left for town, so he reminded the
new arrival to measure the fall if it rained
before his return. Choom had often seen
the boss putting out a tin-dish to catch rain-
water for his batteries, so when the storm
came he reckoned it would be all right if
he put the same dish out. In the afternoon
it cleared up, and the boss arrived in time
to see Choom pouring the water from the
dish into the measure glass. “What the
blazes are you doing?” he shouted. “That’s
not the way to measure rain.” “I thought
there was somethin’ wrong, sir,” replied
Choom. “If I’d measured the water in the
wheelbarrow I’d ’a’ got a lot more.”
* * x *
“Neuron” : It is a maxim of English and
other sportsmen that “ducks feed only at
night and geese by day,” but do they?
For years I have observed the habits of
maned geese, commonly called wood-ducks,
and find that during the day they spend
their time either resting around the lagoon,
edges or sitting on dry timber. Yet in com-
pany with black duck and teal their noctur-
nal visits to neighboring lucerne flats are
all too frequent for the farmer’s pocket.
(Continued on page 25A
THE SONG OF THE SHOULD-’AVE-
BEENS.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the song of the sliould-’ave-beens that
somehow never were:
I should ’ave been shot the night I went an’
told my love to ’er.
I should ’ave shaken ’ands with meself when
I was shown the door;
I should ’ave been wiser than fall for ’er—
I’d met that sort before.
I should ’ave been in a cushy job, but I went
an’ played the fool;
I should ’ave been drawin’ five jim a week if
I’d done my best at school;
I should ’ave been ’ealthy, the ole quack said,
if I ’adn’t learned to smoke;
I should ’ave been savin’ when I was young.
I wasn’t—an’ now I’m broke.
I should ’ave been on the other inokc that
won in a donkey-trot;
I should ’ave been canny an’ kept my fare
’stead of giving Ike the lot;
I should ’ave taken a friend’s advice, “Lad,
give the gees a miss.”
Oh, I should ’ave been born without a thirst
an’ I wouldn’t ’ave come to this!
I should ’ave put more water in it, whether
’twas whisky or wine;
I should ’ave been ’anded the luck you ’ave;
you should ’ave been ’anded mine.
I should ’ave been wise, I should ’ave been
shrewd, I should ’ave been —ah, well,
I should ’ave been wearin’ white wings now—
if Adam ’adn’t fell.
victoria.
PATRICK T. FINDLAY.


REX Hnm Pate and the REX Delicacies
listed below provide a splendid variety
of tasty wholesome sandwich fillings
for school and work lunches, for after-
noon teas and suppers.
'Wrr.
V J/ffl
ivr J
i
m
Hill
2
i
FOODS
pU^
OS
Now in handy 2oz. cans as
well as the famous o z. size.
can now buy REX Ham Pate in small 2oz. cans*
It is the same consistently choice sandwich delicacy
you know so well in the 3/4oz. size, and bears the
same label.
This smaller tin will suit small families, and the house-
wife who, for example, is preparing a light supper —-
perhaps a few sandwiches or savouries or a few rounds
of toast cut into fingers and spread with this tasty
delicacy.
REX Ham Pate owes its superlative quality to the use
of only the choicest and purest raw materials. It is all
delicious, sweet, mild, REX Ham. Hence its
true ham flavour and its great popularity as a tasty
sandwich spread.
Have a tin of each size in your pantry.
REX
am Pate
Other REX Sandwich Delicacies.
REX Luncheon Cheese, in 4oz. & 2oz. tins & porcelain jars
REX-PYE, in lib &. £lb tins
REX Salmonelle, in glass jars
REX Veal and Tongue Pate
REX Devilled Ham
REX Ham and Tongue
REX Veal and Bacon
REX Anchovy Paste
REX Bloater Paste
r~
FOGGITT JONES LIMITED
Curcrs of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon.


The best cigarettes
for years
at
2Q/brlfe
STQTE (xpi^ess
333
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
“Jabiru”: How is this as an example of
bird surgery? My cat brought in a white-
headed stilt with a large swelling between
the left foot and the knee. Under the skin
was a layer of damp clay, and under the
clay a slender feather wound four times
round the overlapping ends of the broken
bones and caught at each end between the
bones. Although the bones had not knitted,
a spongy ridge had formed on each of the
touching surfaces, and the skin had grown
over the whole of the wound. Could a
plaster-of-Paris splint beat that?
* * * *
“Emel”: A quandong-tree grown in a
garden in the Warracknabeal (Vic.) dis-
trict bore fruit every year, but during the
20-odd years I’ve known another in the same
part of the country not once could I find
a quandong on it, though it blooms pro-
fusely. This particular quandong is now
a handsome shade tree, 15 feet high and
almost as broad, and of a compact globu-
lar shape. At present it is covered with
clusters of small greeny-brown flowers.
Why do none of these produce quandongs?
:Jc * ❖
“Alastor”: The opal-digger is a rare bird
in Queensland these days, but I recently
struck one at Muckadilla. His turnout con-
sisted of a push-pike, an axe and a tent.
He was making for Quilpie, the railway ter-
WONDERS NEVER CEASE.
"You must try to come to our concert on Wednesday, Mr. Jenkins. I have a fine
new gramophone that will fill the church ; I’m sure you’ll be able to hear.
“Fill the church, passon? Ay’, an’ where will ye be puttin’ the people?”
minus, where he hoped to strike a fortune
that he had “just missed,” so he said, a few
times in a life of big thrills. At one turn
of the wheel he had spent £20,000 in five
years to satisfy a thirst that in the end
left him a pauper. In Quilpie district, he
informed me, was a German _ fossicker who
for 30 years had never despaired of finding
an opal fortune. He intended to join this
persevering optimist, “and soon,” he declared
as he mounted his push-bike, “you’ll hear of
something out Quilpie way that will knock
Roma into a cocked hat.”
* * * *
“Maragina”: The case of “Matamata s’
Papuan cookboy* whose \toe was gnawled
by rats is not exceptional. While I was on
the staff of the L.M.S. at Port Moresby,
four or five of the station boys arrived at
the hospital one morning with their feet
in a dreadful state, the hard calloused skm
of the soles having been chewed down to
the flesh. To my inquiries as to the cause
the boys replied laconically. “Beta [rats],
Sinabada!” They had fallen asleep after
one of their periodical beanos, with squashed
masses of taro and pig-fat adhering to the
soles of their feet, and had slumbered on
profoundly during the rats’ tea-party.
* :]: * *
“Toonooba”: Is there any authentic in-
formation available about Chelosauria lovellt,
one of the mysteries of the Great Barrier
waters? Not one specimen has been cap-
tured, but the amphibian lias been described
on several occasions by various observers.
First seen at close quarters at Sandy Cape
(Q.) in 1890 by Miss Lovell, it is described
as a turtle-like animal about 30 feet long,
of a light-grey and white color. The neck
and tail, the latter forked, are each about
12 feet long and covered by large glistening
scales. The carapace is steel-grey. The
feet are said to resemble those of the croco-
dile. When swimming the head is carried
about eight feet above the water-line.
s|e i]: -k
“Ivooragai” : Some inland towns complain
that they have been robbed of their natural
fish supply, and have to eat tinned stuff; and
ask if there isn’t enough fish in the sea for
the hungry maw of the city octopus without
going out back for more. The encroachment
tells hardest on the whalers and old-age pen-
sioners who camp along the Darling and Mur-
rumbidgee, where life is no longer the happy
picnic it used to be. The old whalers’ special
grievance is the dwindling resources of their
mother river, owing chiefly to the fishermen
who rush about in motor-boats, scouring the
streams for cod, which they send away in
large quantities to Sydney. At one time the
old chaps had yards where they kept their
surplus cod for future usenow they often
have a gnawing vacancy waiting for the din-
ner to bite. Very soon, at the rate the waters
are being stripped, only the worms will bite.
LETTING HER DOWN LIGHTLY.
“There goes that stuck-up Mrs. Boggs—always with her nose in the air!”
“Oh, poor thing, perhaps she can’t help it! I suppose her husband works in a bone mill.”
“ J.D.C.” : The octopus sometimes performs
the same trick as the rifle-fish. Sitting on a
flat rock one night, I noticed a small crab sidle
rapidly out of the water and climb about a
foot up the rock. He remained stationary for
a few seconds, when the water parted where
he had left it and a strong jet shot up and
lifted him off the rock. Before he could fully
regain his grip a couple of tentacles swept
up and he was dragged under. When “shoot-
ing,” the octo. uses only clear water, but if
a screen is required for his protection he
ejects an inky fluid which blots him out.
* * * *
“Sea Nomad” : I was much puzzled at the
innards of a giant banyan-tree on Maubiag
(Torres Strait). A “boy” chopped into it
and cut through bone. Slithers taken down
the sides of the tree showed that the root-
line trunk was as full of bones as a porcu-
pine of points. I pored over the problem,
and, noticing Sambo grinning, called on him
to explain the joke. It appeared that the
banyan w T as once the centre of a village.
The villagers threw all their dugong bones
upon and around the tree, and the con-
tinually dropping shoots and roots in course
of time grew through and around the accu-
mulation. The tree was sacred to a spirit
which guided the destinies of the dugong,
and the bones were placed there so that the
tree could thrive upon them whilst the
natives grew fat on the meat.
* * * *
“Fudden”: If a man comes to a salty
bore or well, and if he has to camp there,
provided he has enough water in his water-
bag to see him over the night he may give
himself an easy start in the morning. If he
gets a bucket or a kerosene-tin, fills that
with the salty water and places a bit of
pine board in it—the end of a petrol case
is just the thing—by the morning that pine
will usually have absorbed enough of the
saline contents to leave the rest fit to drink.
Mind, it won’t be any nectar, and it’ll make
you twist your lips and spit as it goes down ;
but it’s better than it was, and it’s good
enough to save a man’s life if there’s another
dry stage ahead.
* * * *
“P.T.F.”: “I ’ad a dorg that’d ha’ shaken
up these tin ’ares,” said Joe. “ ’E could foot
anythin’. I seen ’im put up two rabbits,
catch one, an’ then git after the other
an’ catch it. One evenin’ ’e spots a ’are an’
goes fer the lick of ’is life at the beginning
It ’ad 10 chain start, but ’e was only 20
yards be’ind w’en ’e disappears over a ’ill.
W’en I gits to the top o’ the ’ill I spots a
cove walkin’ down the other side. ‘Seen a
dorg after a ’are?’ I yells. ‘Yairs,’ ’e says.
‘’Ow was ’e doin?’ I says. ‘Well,’ ’e says,
‘w’en they passed me the dorg was a chain
an’ a ’arf in front.’ There ain’t no dorg
at the tin. ’ares as ’ud ever do as good as
that.”
# * * *
“Ven”: Hard-headed abos. (B. 22/2/’28)?
Picked up in a dispute about the ownership
of a gin, a three-inch wedge-shaped frag-
ment of gidya remained in a blackfellow’s
head for six months. It was eventually dis-
closed by a Cloncurry (N.Q.) hospital sister
while dressing the superficial wound.
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: Binghi is always careful to
avoid the spur-winged plover if he wants
ducks, for the spur-wing is the alarm bird
of the swamps. He has a generous feeling
for the nuisance, too. A long time ago, in
liis legendary lore, there was a beautiful
girl called Kaloona, who was kidnapped by
a member of an enemy tribe and taken far
away. In a very dry time, when the tribe
was widely scattered, she managed to escape,
but suffered from want of food on the long
way home. Near a big swamp she fell ex-
hausted, and was nearly dying when the
birds took pity on her. Nidli, the pelican,
brought her water in his big pouch; Mara,
the grey duck, and Mulgo, the black swan
supplied her with small fish and bulbs. Re-
freshed by these, she went on and reached
her home camp. When she died she became
a plover, and in gratitude to the waterfowl
lingered always by the swamps and warned
them of danger.
* * * *
“B-Gar”: Bushmen suffering a recovery
take many different mixtures to try to get
right. Salts, pain-killer, soup, sauce and even
“metho” are favored, but I discovered a new
pick-me-up recently. A navvy after a bender
killed a goat and ate the raw liver. “Best
thing in the world to stop the horrors,” was
his only remark.
* * * *
“L.”: On a sheep-station in West Q’land
an outlaw dingo had been playing havoc with
the sheep. The professional dog-catchers
tried for a long time but failed to get him.
He was too knowing for their traps or
poison. A college boy up from Brisbane for
a few weeks’ holiday hit upon a scheme.
A muddy waterhole, a few inches deep,
was close to one of the dog’s haunts. The
boy drove a stake in the water, hung some
roasted sheep’s liver upon it, and then
planted a series of dog-traps around. The
curiosity of the dog was his undoing. He
wanted to examine the decoy at closer
quarters, and waded in. He could not see
the traps or smell the human touch, and was
caught before he suspected anything. A
youngster had succeeded where expert veter-
ans had failed.
THE BELL-BIRD ON THE HILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The bells I hear them ringing:
Horse bells upon the plain,
And cattle bells, far flinging
Their minor notes, complain.
Sweeter than these, I hear him still —
The bell-bird on the hill.
A flock of starlings winging
Across a deep-blue sky,
A shrike’s sweet music wringing
The heart to smile and sigh ;
And from afar —oh hear who will—
The bell-bird on the hill.
Church bells at sunset, bringing
A thought of day-time past;
All joyous notes and singing
To silence come at last.
Oh, may I hear, till all is still,
The bell-bird on the hill!
QUEENSIAND.
BLACK BONNET.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on onlv one subject at
a time.
The Service Department has come to the conclusion that it ought to be giving
more help to wireless users and would-be users. To this end it has added to its
great chain of professional helpers two radio experts, whose opinions and knowledge
will be available to readers who forward inquiries.
Wants.
Returned soldier, excellent refs., thorough
experience on land and with sheep, wants to
take over homestead-farm with option of
purchase; about 800 sheep. Terms, half
proceeds of sheep annually to cover rent and
payment.—36BB.
Experienced couple want position in April.
Husband good stockman, milk, kill, etc.; wife
cook, housekeeper, bake bread, etc., well
recommended. Like go Queensland. —3655.
Young gentleman, educated at London pub-
-1 c school, desires travel to England as com-
panion and he1p.—3616.
Young man, 20, experience as private
secretary to Cabinet Minister, knowledge
office management, journalistic abilities,
wants position private secretary.—36s6.
Gentleman, 42, wants experience on
poultry farm, small wages and board. Will-
ing w0rk.—3646.
Opening as girl gardener for young woman
accustomed to home gardening; care of
horses, pigs and poultry; wants out-of-doors
life ; understands nursing.—3623.
Ex-English school boy, held commission
six years R.A.V.C., experienced blood stock,
train ponies, stick and ball, knowledge book-
keeping, seeks position stud farm or station,
anywhere.—36o2.
Position as overseer on sheep or mixed
property, own dogs, experienced. (Direct to
A. Jones, Strathbogie, Emmaville, N.S.W.)
Young man, exp. sheep and cattle, wants
position on station in N.T. —3640.
Engine-driver, knowledge crude oil and re-
frigeration, required for country (S.A.).
State age, wage and experience.—3611.
_ Work for self and dinghy, Parramatta,
vicinity Meadowbank.—367l.
Young country lady wants position dress-
maker in Sydney or sewing by day.—366B.
Lady, 24, wants position companion-help.
Used housekeeping. Can drive car. N.S.W.
or Vic. —3660.
Experienced English journalist (28) offers
secretarial or clerical services return for
passage to England. References supplied.—
3662.
Seaman, 20 years’ naval service, excellent
references, single, disciplined, strong, robust
health, go anywhere, live in or out, know-
ledge boats, splicing, etc. —3661.
Young man, well educated, several foreign
languages, wants opening, any kind. Go any-
where. Not afraid tackle anything.—37l2.
Young Englishman (24), ex-marine radio-
operator, wants shore job, city preferred, ex.
r< f 5.—3711.
Well-educated man (23) seeks clerical
position. Highest references. —3703.
Two expert rabbiters, 200 traps and camp-
ing outfit, like permission to trap on station,
good district; returned soldiers. —3700.
To communicate with private person or
institution with files of Saturday Evening
Post for May and June, 1926. —3609.
Vivian Cullen requested to communicate
with H. Colley, Jamberoo, N.S.W.
To let 8-roomed brick house Fairy Bower-
road, Manly, unfurnished if preferred.
(Direct Box 2133 L, Sydney.)
Exchange new four-roomed brick cottage,
North Manly (Sydney), value £750, for
cottage similar value any inland suburb.
(Direct to N.H., Box L 2133, G.P.0., Syd.)
F'or sale, eight miles from G.P.0., Bris-
bane, 40 acres, fenced, high, sloping to per-
manent creek, £750, terms. —3615.
Copy of poem by Alfred Noyes, contain
ing the line, “The road was a ribbon of moon-
light.” (Direct J. W. Pette, Deloraine, Tas.)
Copy Burton’s translation “Arabian
Nights,” condition and price. (Direct C.
Lemcke, 34 Croydon-street, Petersham, Syd.)
Sell attractive cottage, 3 bedrooms, Bel-
more (Sydney). £1095; deposit £300.—3674.
To sell six copies full vocal score “Miss
Hook of Holland.”—o672.
To communicate with bush orchid fan-
ciers outside N.S.W. (Direct to W. J.
Baxter, Cheltenham, N.S.W.)
Copy of “Loss of the Dundonald.”
(Direct Mrs. Pool, 13 Dalgetty-terrace, Mil-
ler’s Point, Sydney.)
Newspaper or other photograph of Miles
Franklin. (Direct to S. McLaren, 319
Barkly-street, St. Kilda, Vic.)
Information from cattle-drovers and stock-
men concerning “haunted” camps. (Direct
to 11. J. Brown, Hickin-street, Toowong, Q.)
Information Sought.
I have a revolver here in Papua and wish
to take it to England via Australia, How
am I to do so without violating any laws?
—3470.
Upon arrival in Australia report possession
to police. Upon embarking place it in charge
of purser. It will have to be licensed again
in England. Last-named is the only charge.
(1) Rates of pay for seamen and petty
officers in R.A.N. (2) Chances of promo-
tion. (3) Any other allowances. (4) Where
to join in N.S.W.? —3541.
(1) Ordinary seaman, active pay per day, 55.;
deferred pay per day, Is. 3d. Able seamanj
75.; after three years, 7s. 2d.; after six years,
7s. 4d ; deferred pay, Is. 9d. Leading sea-
man, Bs.; after one year if passed for petty
officer, Bs. 3d.; deferred, 2s. Petty officer,
95.; after three years, 9s. 4d.; after six years,
9s. Bd.; deferred, 2s. 3d. Chief p. 0., 10s.
6d.; deferred, 2s. 7d.; after three years, 11s.;
and d.p., 2s. lOd. (2) Depends upon a man’s
ability. (3) Victualled and also paid a kit
upkeep allowance of B£d. per day. (4) Dis-
trict Naval Officer, Naval Staff Office, Edge-
cliff, Sydney.
Is there a small hand-machine for pickling
wheat with copper carbonate suitable for
the grower who soivs only 20 to 30 acres?
—3237.
A small box butter-churn serves the pur-
pose admirably.
Is there a scale of charges for architects
in N. S. Wales?— 3sBl.
A booklet setting out the scale is published
by Institute of Architects, 5 Elizabeth-strcet,
Sydney; 6d. Minimum fee for complete ser-
vices is 6 p.c. on cost of work. For prepar-
ing plans and specifications only 3 p.c. is the
minimum. As your architect has charged
you 3J p.c. he is apparently adopting the
practice, favored by a good many architects,
of charging \ p.c. more than the minimum
for plans and specifications, but only ‘2i p.c.
for supervision. These charges are for works
costing over £2000; for smaller jobs archi-
tects are entitled to charge higher, but few
do so.
(1) What proportion of his deceased wife’s
estate is a husband entitled to, irrespective
of a will? (2) How can he delay the grant-
ing of probate until he gets his rights? (3)
If the husband had earned or amassed all the
property left by his wife, and she willed it
to others, could he seek legal redress? (4)
Would the wife’s icill stand good if, at the
time she made it, she owned no separate
estate? —3459.
(1) If wife dies intestate and estate ad-
ministered, where there are no children the
husband is entitled to half, and half goes to
her next-of-kin. Where there are children,
the husband is entitled to a third, and two-
thirds go to the children. (2) If the wife
makes a wijl with no provision for her hus-
band’s maintenance, the husband can make
application to the Court under the Tes-
tator’s Family Maintenance Act. The hus-
band could lodge a caveat against probate,
but probate would not be withheld merely
because he was dissatisfied with his wife’s
disposition of her property. (3) If you
consider you have a claim against your wife’s
estate it must be lodged with the executors
before distribution, otherwise it will not be
recognised. (4) A will speaks from the date
of its maker’s death, not from the date it
was made.
I have an aged model-T Ford. When in
action there is a grinding, whirring sound.
Have put new crown wheel washers, etc., in
the differential—the sound seems to come
from the transmission. Could it be worn
crank-shaft bearings? —349o.
Probably the crown wheel and pinion are
meshing a little too deeply, or the pinion is
unevenly worn. Perhaps you have fitted a
new crown wheel, but not a new pinion. It
is usually advantageous to replace both of
these gears to ensure an even pressure. The
grinding noise appears to be in transmis-
sion, on account of the drive-shaft tubing
carrying the soured from the differential
towards the transmission. A similar sound
would not be heard if the trouble was in
the crank-shaft bearings.
I want to go in for orange-orcharding in
N. 8. Wales. Please advise as to (1)
locality; (2) the most profitable navel;
(3) acreage one man can “just” handle
with modern implements; (4) ivisdom of
taking up Crown land. —3467.
(1) Get “Citrus Culture” from Govern-
ment Printer, Is. Id. post free. (2) Limita-
tion of varieties is desirable according to
locality. Washington Navel, Valencia Late,
Sweet Rind Lemons and Emperor Mandarin
are the four best of their kind. (3) About
10 to 15 acres. Much depends on the
soil and the district. (4) Developing Crown,
land usually requires more capital than pur-
chasing a small orchard.
Best doctor’s book for general use in the
home? Where obtainable and price? —3494.
Cassell’s “Home Medical Guide” and
“Modern Family Doctor,” about 10s.; Angus
and Robertson. But whilst such books are
interesting, they cannot replace advice from
a medical man. The art of medicine lies
chiefly in diagnosis, and no untrained person
can know much about that.
The occupier of a Crown Lease has fenced
across a track that has been used as a public
road for over 30 years, (a) Can it be closed
legally? (b) Wcmld the persons affected by
having their mail stopped have a claim for
damages ? —3503.
On the facts submitted no definite infor-
mation can be supplied. In subdividing
Crown lands for settlement, it is the practice
to reserve roads for intercommunication,
either embracing tracks in use or between
the blocks, having regard to the design of
such blocks and the likely trend of traffic. It
is therefore reasonable to assume that, if the
track in question has not been reserved, some
other provision has been made for access.
Should the track be not included in a road
reserved, the question of right of user would
be a matter to be determined at law between
the affected parties.
I have an old-style barometer. Portion of
the quicksilver has run out of the tube; what
is left is in disconnected pieces. Can 1
integrate same so that it will function as ol
01d?— 2630.
Remove the glass tube from the case; re-
place any mercury that has been lost with
fresh mercury; cork tube to prevent further
loss. Now turn tube upside down and bump
lightly on a soft pad until all mercury par-
ticles are joined together. You now require
to add the fresh mercury to the column.
This is done by swinging (still in upside-
down position) small portions around the
bend of the tube and so into the main
column. When the column is filled to the
centre of the bend turn tube to upright posi-
tion and the mercury should then operate
properly.
How can I waterproof tan-leather shoot-
ing b00t5? —3579.
(1) Eight ounces powdered resin, Boz.
paraffin wax. Heat to a liquid state and rub
into the boots. Two applications should be
sufficient. Use liberally. Or (2) Dissolve
four ounces rubber in one pint benzine and
give two or three coats. No. 1 is the more
effective, but it makes the boots look ugly
and heavy.
(1) How does one get a possie as tally-
clerk in N.-Q. canefield or sugar-mill? (2)
Wages? (3) When docs season commence
and finish? —3451.
(1) Apply managers of the mills, or C.S.R.
Co., Brisbane. (2) Northern division, 2s.
3|d. per hour; Central, 2s. 2-Id.; Southern,
2s. lid. (3) Varies, but roughly from June
to December.
Is it necessary for a man running a motor-
repair shop to hold a certificate of compet-
ency? If so, by whom is he examined? —
3659.
No, but it is an advantage to hold, for
instance, the certificate issued to motor-
engineers by the N.11.M.A. Apply, secre-
tary, N.R.M.A., Grosvenor-street, Sydney;
An examination is held in April; charge,
10s. 6d.
Recipe for orange wine?—- 3312.
Gather fruit dry and ripe, and clean well.
Place in wooden or enamel tub, and bruise
or break it thoroughly with wooden masher.
Cover with boiling water. Place muslin
cover over tub, and let stand from one to
three weeks in cool place. Then strain off
liquor. For lgal. liquid, allow 3lb. sugar.
Stir well together and let ferment in a tub,
or cask with the bung out. Let it work 10
days, keeping cask full with orange liquor
kept in reserve. When finished fermenting,
put loz. isinglass and lib. raisins to each
9gal. Bottle in about six months, and keep
to mature. Whisky or brandy may be added
after fining or clearing if wished. The
isinglass should be dissolved in about lqt.
of the wine and well stirred into the re-
mainder. Skim off any bubbles, close the
bunghole and let stand until bottled, when
it should be strained. The process is
troublesome and difficult in hot climates
owing to moulds.
Can you give me any information regard-
ing luminous paint : whether it is manufac-
tured here or obtainable anyivherc in Syd-
ney; also whether it is dangerous to tise it
on woodwork? —32l4.
Hornes Luminous Paint Co., London-road,
North Cheam, Surrey, England, are the best-
known makers. Luminous paint is not made
in Australia so far as we can ascertain, and
is not generally stocked by oil and color
merchants. It is non-poisonous and could
be used in any situation without danger.
My pug-dog is suffering from a complaint
not unlike asthma. The vet. calls it husk.
Can you suggest any cure? —3484.
The term “husk” is apparently a mis-
nomer. The pug is probably affected with
a form of catarrh, and it may be aggravated
by the fat condition of the animal. Of
course, the treatment now recommended must
be solely adopted, otherwise serious trouble
may result. Give dog a dose of purgative
medicine —Joz. castor oil and syrup ol
buckthorn—in early morning on an empty
stomach. Feed sparingly on carbo-hydrate
foods (cakes, biscuits, etc.), and give veget-
ables and gravy, a little meat and milk.
After the purgative has acted, give a tabloid,
five grains chlorate of potash twice daily.
What is the best method to employ to
fumigate a glass-house? Is there any danger?
What books are published on glass- and
shade-house culture in Australia? —3452.
The most effective way of fumigating a
glass-house to destroy insect pests is to
burn concentrated nicotine in a vaporiser
sold by seedsmen, or by burning tobacco until
the house is full of dense smoke, taking care
that the tobacco does not blaze. Place a
handful of moist tobacco over a live piece
of coke, say, in an old saucepan with a few
holes in the bottom for draught, and when
this is nearly burned through pull the utensil
towards you and put on another handful, re-
peating this until near the door. There is
no danger in this to either the operator or
the plants. We know of no books published
on glass- and shade-house culture in Aus-
tralia.
(1) When was The Bulletin first pub-
lished? (2) Who was the first editor? (3)
Did the first numbers resemble the present ?
(4 )Do contributors ever forget to claim for
payment ? —3634.
(1) Saturday, January 31, 1880. (2)
J. F. Archibald. (3) The first number was
on ordinary newsprint, eight pages, cost
4d.; No. 2 cost 3d. The size of the page
was the same as it is to-day. The make-up,
of course, was different, but the main prin-
ciples have been retained. (4) Very few—
less than 2 p.c.
Information Supplied.
2907. —To make a nsn-trap, take a piece
of wire-netting about 4ft. 6in. long by 36in.;
llin. mesh and fine gauge. Roll into a cylinder
and fasten. This will give diameter of about
I Sin. Enclose one end with similar netting.
Other end to have a funnel, also same netting,
about 12in. The small end of funnel, w T ith
a 3in. opening, to go inside cylinder. Sus-
pend in river by two wires with the funnel
end down stream. —“Nota Bene.”
3160. —To make a small quantity of dog
biscuits. Boil to shreds some old scraps of
lean meat, and after cooling skim off fat.
Mix up some flour and a pinch of salt, add
sufficient of the meaty liquid to enable the
dough to be rolled out stiff enough to be cut
into small squares. Bake in a quick oven.
They will keep fresh for a week.—“B-Gar.”
3327. —To store apples, pick carefully on
a fine cool day, and do not bruise. Discard
imperfect ones. Place thinly on wooden
shelves or on a clean wooden floor in dry, airy
room. Sort over occasionally, and remove
those showing the least sign of decay.—"VV.M.
3358.—T0 remedy stickiness of an oilskin
coat. Boil in water and caustic soda until
clear of old proofing, dry, and apply raw
linseed oil mixed with fine plumbago (black-
lead) ; two coats of this. Dry slowly in a
draught not exposed to the sun (quick dry-
ing is apt to cause spontaneous combustion).
The proofing to be painted on with stiff
brush. —“C.L.”
3359. —If the quantity of beer to be clari-
fied is only small, use white of one egg for
every two gallons of beer. Beat egg to
froth, then add to beer. Whisk thoroughly.
It will be perfectly clear after about 24
hours. If larger quantities have to be fined,
use Boz. isinglass to every 100 gallons. Dis-
solve isinglass in £gal. boiling water, add to
beer and stir thoroughly. Let stand till
clear.—“J.P.”
3350.—Empty egg shells, allowing two to
every gallon of beer, will clear it. Strain
before bottling.—“Cowwhit.”
3358.—T0 remove stickiness from oilskin
coat. Shellac, 40z., methylated spirit 1 pint.
Dissolve shellac in spirit by standing con-
tainer in boiling water. Keep away from
fire or naked lights. Apply with a rag.
—“J.P.”
3346. —To waterproof a brown shooting
coat without using linseed oil, take a mixture
of one gallon of water, 4oz. glue and 2oz.
common soap. Boil this until all ingredients
are dissolved; then immerse coat and boil
44 hours. Afterwards, hang out to dry.
Next, soak the coat for about 12 hours in
1 gal. water, 15oz. alum and 15oz. salt. Ilinse
out in water and allow to dry at a tem-
perature of 100 degrees Falir. —“Pila.”
Does Anybody Know?
Has crayfish ever been canned in Aus-
tralia?—36ls.
Reliable recipe for making baker’s yeast
for hot climate, and best preservative to keep
it for few weeks?—3sB6.
Meaning of Coolgardie and Kalgoorlie?—
3350.
Which is the correct way to stay a yard
gate—from the bottom hinge up or the top
hinge down? Is there any difference? If so
why ?—3560.
How to go about retimbering a well 50ft.
deep? The top 20ft. is in fair order, but
the lower 30ft. looks unsafe to work in.—
3531.
Brief Answers.
R. J.: Mick Simmons state Slazenger
racquets are guaranteed tor six months... .H.J.W.:
Yates’s “Gardening Guide,” Is., 184 Sussex-street;
“Vegetable Growing,” 2s. Bd. posted, Government
Printer ; both Sydney.... Quiz: See annual report of
Registrar of Friendly Societies, Government Printer,
Sydney, Is. 9d G.S.: Alcohol is the same in all
liquors. But in each there is present, and formed
dviring the same fermentation process, “higher”
afV)holic compounds which give the liquor its
characteristic smell and taste. Thus, fusel-oil alco-
hols are present in whisky, ethyl pelargonate in
brandy, and so 0n....M.R.: In 1854 William Clarke
(with an e), was a gold broker and stationer at
67 Collins-street East, Melbourne. In 1858-67 William
Clarke and Sons, gold brokers, were at 86 Eliza-
beth-street. .. . J.H.J.: (1) “Sixpenny Lions” gener-
ally of face value only. One minting (George IV.)
is rarer and commands Is. 6d. (2) Nothing extra.
. ...C.M.L.: Nominal value 55.; in good condition
should bring 7s. Bd. to 10s. (2) Try Lyster Ormsbv,
Hunter-street, Sydney... .C.M.: Can’t ascertain the
artist. Reproductions no value. Engraved and pro-
cess prints quite out of fashion. .. .C.H.C.: Fresh Food
and Ice, 25 Harbor-street; Red Funnel Fisheries,
Cowper Wharf Roadway ; both Sydney... .K.L.S.: (1)
Nock and Kirby, 188 George-street, Sydney. (2)
Sydney nurserymen say that trees, etc., are not kept
that long. Either advertise or watch out for a sub-
division of an estate with garden... .E. 8.: The
freehold part was held by the late E. J. Banfield.
Queensland Lands Department is unable to state
whether this is for sale. None of the unalienated
portion is open for selection, lease or purchase....
L.J.S.: See “Wild Cat” last week... .A.G.0.: Ditto.
. ...D.D.A.: Doubt if they’re worth anything at all.
. ...W.S.D.: They are, in our opinion, valueless.
. ...R.R.: (1) G. E. Crane and Sons, Pitt-street,
Sydney. (2) Sample must be submitted to Board of
Health. (3) Not without a large outlay on adver-
tising, etc H.H.: Angus and Robertson’s, 15s
J.D.: “Guide Book for Use of Prospectors” (Govt.
Printer, Phillip-street, Sydney, Is.). .. . A.S.: Write
Repatriation Commission, Chalmers-street, Sydney....
R.W.: Queen’s Bridge Motors Pty., Ltd., South
Melbourne. .. .N.C.P.: (1) Curtis Brown, Ltd., 116
West 39th-street, New York; Paul R. Reynolds, 599
Fifth-avenue, New York. (2) A reputable literary
agent never charges “reading fees” —only a com-
mission, generally about 15 per cent., on author’s
return. .. . J.P.S.: Elsdon Best says “Matakana” means
“alert, watchful, shy and suspicious.” “N.Z.
Index” says “putrid fish.” Take your pick.
. ...G.8.W.: Dymock’s or Angus and Robert-
son’s, 18s. 10d., posted... .E.A.8.: Best to
apply for permission. It may be copyrighted....
R.C.: Impossible to say in the absence of specimens.
Submit specimens of the attacked foliage and of the
insects believed to be responsible for the injury to
Entomologist, Department of Agriculture, Brisbane.
. ...L.F.G.: Watch for article by “N.M.L.” in “Man
on the Land” page... .R.C.: Too rough and too little
in it. Besides it is a parody.... 11. A.: Communicate
with Tribune or Herald-Examiner, Chicago; Muni-
cipal Reference Library, Chicago, may also be able to
help... .H.S.M.: Depends upon what you have to sell.
American Trade Commissioner, 440 Little Collins-
street, Melbourne, may be able to lead you tc
possible buyers... .G.A.M.: Waugh and Josephson,
Ltd., St. Peters, Sydney... .F.C.H.; Don’t know of
a “wet” method of assaying silver ore approximately.
. ...H.1.: Get in touch with Showmen’s Guild, c/o.
Film Weekly, 200 Pitt-street, Sydney D.M.G.:
(1) Yes. (2) Pat Lawler, Box 965 G.P.0., Welling-
ton, N.Z.; 2s. 2d. posted... .G.E.8.: Try a small
ad. in Capricornian or Morning Bulletin, Rock-
hampton (Q.) .... A.E.W.: If for the British Solo-
mons, consult the Foreign Office Report on Trade
of Solomon Islands (H.M. Stationery Office, Kings-
way, London, W.C.2). If for the old German
Solomons, write Home and Territories Department,
Canberra. .. .J.W.C.: If we were looking for accre-
tion and didn’t trouble much about immediate re-
turn, Queensland Insurance. .. .La N.: It’s a gamble;
but we should feel like risking it... .D.J.W.: Pos-
sibly large profits in it. But you must take a lot
of chances... .M.E.; It means the composer bears
all the exes., arranges printing and distribution and
reaps all profit, if any. The safest and for most
people the only practicable method is to send the
song to a music publisher, who, if it is suitable, will
publish it on a royalty basis.... O’S.: Less an in-
vestment than a seductive gamble... .8.M.P.: Gor-
don and Gotch; Edwards, Dunlop; Hoffnung and
Co. —all of Sydney.


Dodge Brothers line of pas-
senger vehicles includes the
Dodge Four , the Victory Sa
and the Senior Six.
aat \
r- V
£
m
n>
6
i
\
□
/
W
IS
s
«**p
R
'
T'X < -?S*' >
/ ? >JO*
Mechanical Excellence
This Four is Dodge Brothers
answer to the ever-present,
world-wide demand for a
car of medium size, medium
price, great economy —and
yet of custom smartness and
exceptional performance.
Dependability, long life,
simplicity, low maintenance
expense and fuel economy are
here embodied to maximum
degree.
Mechanical excellence
through and through accounts
for this superiority.
Dodge Brothers Four is
soundly engineered,and
built to precision standards of
workmanship.
Metals used in its construction
are the finest that metallurgy
has developed.
ẁ


Send Your
Wool
to
Winchcombe
Carson
An
Australian
Wool
Firm
Founded by Aus-
tralians, conducted
by Australians, the
whole of its capital
subscribed in Aus-
tralia, confining its
activities to Aus-
tralia, selling wool
on behalf of Aus-
tralian clients.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
WOOLBROKERS,
Winchcombe House, Bridge St., Sydney,
and 99-101 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Top values consistently result from their capable,
energetic work as salesmen.
□
W ft w
2003
METAL GATES AND FENCES
Cyclone Metal
Gates Stand the
Test for
Dependability
and Durability
h
Many Designs
are Illustrated
in the Cyclone
Catalogue
POST FREE
Fig. 212.—-Cyclone Drivweay Qate, 3ft. lOin. high.
Made to fit Bft., 9ft., 10ft., 1 lft. and 12ft. openings.
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE CO. PTY. LTD.
COMMERCE BUILDING, ASH STREET (Off 350 George St.), SYDNEY
189-191 William Street, Melbourne. Exchange Buildings, Pirie Street, Adelaide.
PEAPES
—for men AND their sons.
A House which since 1866 lias
concentrated on QUALITY.
Assistants who are thor-
oughly trained and experi-
enced, instantly comprehend-
ing the individual needs of
every customer.
Departments perfectly illu-
minated, an atmosphere of
leisurely comfort and quiet
—everything that helps to
promote pleasure and satis-
faction in the selection of
GUARANTEED goods.
George Street
(Opp. Hunter Street),
Sydneys
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
“GRASS-FED” SHEEP SECTIONS.
“Koolonga”: Very shortly farmers will
start getting their stock ready for the big
shows, and it is a good time for agricultural
societies to give consideration to a very sore
point with sheepmen—the grass-feds. These
sections are open to suspicion and conducive
to ill-feeling, and there are very few who
would be sorry to see them go. Stud-breeding
has arrived at a stage at which good attention
pays, and the old argument that artificial
feeding brings on all kinds of trouble has
been exploded. With a young animal exccs-
sive feeding is certainly harmful, but it is
unlikely that an owner of first-class sheep
would take any chances that way. Australia
is a country with very uncertain seasons,
and nearly every stud-owner makes provision
for drought by conserving fodder; but the
moment dry weather forces him to feed, his
sheep are ineligible for the next shows.
Under-feeding is far more dangerous than
over-feeding, making the sheep stunted and
light of wool-bearing; notwithstanding this
the man who is after prizes will keep the
flock out on grass as long as possible. The
grass-fed classes unduly favor those studs
located in mild-weather areas and, looking
back through the prize-lists for years, it
is easily seen that the winners are mainly
confined to those areas. The classes are a
relic of the old days when only a wealthy
man could feed, and were intended to put
all owners on the same footing, but now
they fail signally.
SHOEING TIIE HORSE.
“Nota Bene”: To get good results from
your horse he must be well shod. For the
stockliorse, shoes made from iron fin. x fin.
are satisfactory. These should be fullared
and slightly seated out; that is, bevelled
on the upper inside curve—not too much, as
pebbles may lodge between the shoe and the
hoof and act like corns on a human. Don’t
cut the toe away too short; if that is done
the horse is apt to fall. A slight trimming
of the frog is sufficient; too much cutting
of this is a mistake. The shoe should be
“sprung” before nailing on—enough to slip
a piece of paper between the hoof and shoe
up to the first nail. Don’t have the heels
of the shoe too long, as the horse may over-
reach and tear off the shoe, with perhaps
damage to the hoof, and possibly a spill
for the rider. Bad shoeing is the cause of
many a fall. Make the shoe fit the hoof,
and not the hoof fit the shoe. After shoe-
ing, the horse should, if possible, have a
day’s spell before work to accustom him to
the new shoes. New boots are uncomfort-
able for a time whether horses or humans
wear them.
CARE OF THE HORSE’S BACK.
“B-Gar”: A badly stuffed saddle, a saddle-
cloth put on any old way and the horse’s
back uncleaned before saddling and after un-
saddling are the main causes of sore backs.
In hot weather sweat-boils often occur, and
once the skin is broken it is necessary to
give the prad a spell. Before turning the
animal adrift, wash the affected part with
warm water, and apply an antiseptic to help
heal and keep the flies away. Stockholm
tar is not good to use; it irritates the
sore. A good gall-cure ointment is better.
Some horses are naturally tender-backed, and
it is useless trying to keep them as hacks.
Better break them into harness or for use
as pack-horses. Riding a prad with one
stirrup longer than the other is another
of the best things to give a sore back.
MEASURING RAINFALL.
“Sucker”: “J.H.S.” advocates rain-gauge
farming (B. 5/l/’2B). The man who works
by a gauge alone is going to land himself
in the soup, and against him the man with
the hoe carries my money every time. It’s
ridiculous to say 25 points of rain will do
this, or won’t do that. One factor is the
time in which the points fall. Further, half
an inch of rain falling after a dry spell of
several months is only a nuisance; the same
fall at the tail-end of five or six inches will
put the creek a banker. A matter which
has not received much consideration is the
effect electrical disturbances have on the
growing value of the rain. Half an inch in
a severe thunderstorm will bring a much
quicker growth than the same amount of
rain without lightning or thunder.
THE VITAMINES.
“Agra”: Vitamine E is the latest addition
to the list of those important food-factors.
To the breeder of stud stock and to pig- and
poultry-farmers it is of peculiar interest and
importance. It will probably explain why
the fertility of certain animals or birds is,
during certain seasons, extremely low. It
will also indicate possibly the precautions
necessary to be taken to avoid the recur-
rence; of this condition.
Experiments have proved that animals,
well fed, sleek and seemingly in first-class
condition, are absolutely sterile when fed
rations from which this vitamine has been
carefully extracted. Wheat, corn and oats
do not contain sufficient; and most of the
fodder crops are deficient also. It is, how-
ever, abundant in lucerne and other legu-
minous plants. To ensure, therefore, a suf-
ficiency of this all-important vitamine for
breeding stock, lucerne should always form
a part of the daily rations.
Like vitamines A and D, it occurs also in
butter-fat, whole-milk and cod-liver oil and
the green leaves of plants.
SOME TRUCKING STOCK DON’TS.
“Jim Domino” : Don't bring your stock to
the railway hungry and thirsty: a good feed
and a drink will help them over the train
journey.
Don’t, think the station-master is joking
when he asks you to have the stock loaded
by a certain hour to enable him to get the
stock-train away on time. By complying
you gain his respect, and will receive atten-
tion. Rub him the wrong way and you strike
a snag. Besides, rushing your stock into the
trucks at the last moment knocks them
about, and causes them to take longer to get
their “train legs.”
Don’t overload your stock in hopes of
saving the expense of another truck. It is
false economy, especially if a drover is no:
employed to escort the stock to their desti-
nation. Once a weak sheep or beast gets
down in an overloaded truck, it is practically
valueless; even drovers have a difficult job
in watching overloaded trucks.
Don’t be bashful in wiring ahead to give
warning that you want a truck (or trucks)
of weak stock run into the trucking-yard loop
so that you can attend to the animals. The
railways are always willing to assist the
stockowner in this respect.
Don’t imagine that the driver, fireman and
guard of the train will insult you should
you offer them a trifle for extra care and
attention, so that your stock may have an
“easy” trip. Ten bob may be very well spent
in this manner.
LOOKS AND STAINS.
“B-Gar”: Pressing locks and stained
pieces before thoroughly drying them is a
bad and dangerous practice. Many farmers
consider that in drying the wool loses weight.
So it does, but it commands a better price.
Moreover, wet wool fires very easily, and
locks and stained pieces,' which are at most
times more or less damp, arc no exception to
the rule. The best method is to spread 'any-
thing damp on a big sheet in the sun, and
keep continually turning. It is wet locks and
stained pieces that are oftenest responsible
for the outbreak of fires on board wool-
clippers.
BLACK SHEEP.
“Gamma”: Re “B-Gar’s” inquiry (B.
8/2/’2B) as to black sheep in flocks. The
pigmentation is hereditary, and the only
means of eliminating black sheep completely
from a given flock is the elimination of ail
those sires and dams carrying the black
strain. Since the strain is “recessive,” to
use a Mendelian term, and is only trans-
mitted directly to a small proportion of
each generation, it will take some time to
discover the offenders, blackness being one
of those sins which are transmitted unto the
third and fourth generation, while the inter-
mediates may be normal.
A good indication of recessive blackness
may frequently be found in horns and
hooves. Any ram showing black streaks in
these parts should be disqualified. Virgil,
even recommended—and quite logically—
examination of the tongue.
Black, white or mixed twins may be born
of either a white or black dam, but in any
case all the progeny of a black sheep wiil
carry the strain with them, and it will assert
itself in future generations. I am thinking
of a large aud well-known stud flock which
regularly lambs from 3 p.c. to 5 p.c. of
blacks, occasioned by the purchase many
years ago of one ram, and it has been found
impossible to -eliminate the strain without
destroying the stud. One per cent, of blacks
is about normal in a decently-bred flock, aud
in a general way the wool is worth two-thirds
the value of white, the reduction being
due, largely, to lack of competition.
BREAKING IN A CATTLE-DOG.
“8.G.” : At six months old take the pup
out in front of the saddle, and when the
cattle are reached let it down with the other
dogs. Do this on two or three occasions
—until the dog gains a bit of confidence.
Then take the pup on its own, making it
follow. Try it with a small mob of quiet
bullocks, but never with cows and calves.
If a dog didn’t know how to bark, the latter
would soon teach it. Teach it to come to
heel, and how to heel, and use all means to
prevent it. from barking. Break it in so that
it will become used to the whip. Never
hit it; nothing spoils a dog so much as a
strike with the lash. Later on teach the
dog to work the wings and steady the lead ;
it all takes time and patience, but a well
broken-in and controlled dog will repay for
all the time taken on it. At home always
keep the dog tied up, and allow it to be fed
by no one but the owner, and let it likewise
follow its owner only. Once a cattle-dog
gets out of control it may as well be sent
to a rabbit-pack, or given the friendly bullet.
CALVES ON THE ROAD.
“N.M.L.”: On all Western cattle-runs,
where the bulk of the beef is, the bulls
run with the herd all tne year. The re-
sult is calves are dropped at any old time.
If the calf is not to be saved, careful
attention must be given the cow on the
point of calving. As soon as it’s dropped,
and before she’s had time to turn round
and start to clean it, the drover should hunt
her on and tap that youngster on the head.
There’s no noise and no fuss about a clean
tap on the skull. The cow goes on. She’s
uncomfortable, and somehow she feels there’s
something missing. She’ll turn repeatedly
and look behind her. But as she’s not seen
her calf, and not smelt and licked it, she’s
not sure where it is. On the camp that
night she’ll move about through the mob,
calling plaintively; but she’ll stay with the
mob and not make any desperate attempts
to break back. She’s cured straight away,
as it were, and barring the discomfort of a
swollen udder she doesn’t worry. If she
partially, or wholly, cleans the thing, how-
ever, before it’s killed, then she knows she’s
had a calf, knows where she left it and
where it should be. She’ll be breaking back,
or trying to get away, all that day, and
on camp that night it will take a good man
and a better horse to make sure of her.
If the calves are to be saved, then a calf-
cart is necessary. In passing, this is one
of the most disgusting jobs with cattle on
the roads. None of it is good; but this lot
is out on its own. All sorts of tilings do
duty as a calf-cart. The best, perhaps, are
those delivery vans, with low-bent axles,
which parade city streets —or which used to
do so in the old days. They’re deep, per-
mitting a roof to bo placed over them, and
they’re low, deleting the strenuous job of
a high lift for a slimy and squirming calf
with an anxious mother in the rear. The
calves have to be carried three or four
days. The cart follows the mob. At camp
at night its living freight is tipped out
and mothered. Next morning the cart fol-
lows the cattle again, after first picking up
calves dropped during the night. As the
little fellows tire the calf-cart picks ’em up
for a lift. They may, or they may not, be
tipped out for a suck at dinner camp.
The best means of all to make easy mother-
ing is for the cart man to provide himself
with a dozen or more chaff-bags. When a
green calf is lifted he is dropped into one.
That keeps him to himself and preserves
all his own aroma. The cow then knows
her calf immediately. And every day in
every way, for reasons which can be under-
stood without being stated, the bag carries
more and more of its calf’s scent.
RICE OR WEEDS?
“Bidgee”: The wonderful possibilities of
rice-growing on the Murrumbidgee Irrigation
Area have been emphasised, but the prophets
have ignored the probable strangling grip of
two weeds, viz., swamp grass (Panicum crus-
galli) and carbungi (Typha sp .). These two
soil robbers flourish in water just as well as
rice does, and how they are to be checked
is a problem that will tax the ingenuity of
every intelligent grower. Both are weeds
which seed very heavily. Carbungi, a kind
of enormous bulrush -eight or nine feet high,
has fluffy seeds which can be carried by
wind or water, and once it sends its root
tentacles into the soil it will take some
shifting.
A commonsense effort to keep these weeds
down will be by summer fallowing and
constant summer cultivation of the fallow.
“One year’s seeding means nine years’ weed-
ing” should be the grower’s daily text.
It would be possible to grow a quick-matur-
ing crop of barley or oats in the winter
period before or after the fallow and while
waiting to grow the next rice crop on this
land.
CORRIEDALES.
“W.P.D.”: At Australian wool sales Cor-
riedale wool is sold as crossbred, so it is
difficult to find out prices realised. In Maori-
land Corriedale wool is quoted separately.
At December sales it sold up to 251 d., and
in January about Id. higher. Merinos
ranged to 27d., lower grades being no higher
than average Corriedales, which were well
above crossbred values. There is a steady
demand for well-grown Corriedale and Corrie-
dale-cross wools which has every appearance
of lasting.
This breed of sheep is doing well on
Queensland coastal and tableland areas.
Two years ago 30 M.L. ewes and rams
were shipped to the order of a Scottish sheep-
breeder in Fifeshire; these have acclimatised
well and are doing splendidly. Three of the
rams have been sold to Lord Rosebery for the
Dalmeny Park stud, another to the Earl of
Crawford and another to the Earl of Moray
for the Donne Lodge flock.
SHEEP-CLASSING ON FARMS.
“B-Gar”: A farmer with a few hundred
merino ewes who pays from three to five
guineas for rams wonders in a year or two
why lie has so many small sheep and so
many light cutters, and why his wool shows
so many different traits. He naturally blames
the rams, says they are no good, sells them
at a loss and buys others—with the same
results. lie never gives a thought to his
ewes, and that is where the trouble lies.
Ewes for breeding should be culled on a
small farm as on big stations. Small and
weedy ewes, as well as those of old age and
light, cutters, should be culled out and fat
tened either for killers at home or for th •
butcher. Shearing time, if the rams have
not already been joined, is a good time to
class the ewes, and saves unnecessary knock
ing about of the sheep, for when the ewes are
in the catching-pens a good inspection can
be made, and by raddling the culls on the
nose it is easy to draft them out after
shearing. An even lot of ewes will produce
an even lot of lambs, and the time and
trouble taken will be repaid by the size of
the woolbroker s cheque.
PREMIUMS FOR WOOL-CLASSING.
“R.S.V.P.”: “Winifred (B. l/2/’2B), in
his remarks on the surplus of wool-classers,
should have deleted his last paragraph, in
which he says the wool student who pays a
classer a premium is a “real mug.” A pre-
mium was once paid upon my behalf, and I
have since received them from others, and
in every case the student passed systemati-
cally through every grade of work in the wool-
room, including classing, the latter under
the supervision of the classer. “Winifred’s”
statement that it is impossible to teach class-
ing in a shearing-shed because of the “hurry
and bustle” is nonsense. There is none of
the whirring contusion he Avould suggest in
a wool-room under efficient control. Any
wool-classer worth his name can dispose of
from 2500 to 3000 fleeces per diem and find
time to explain the characteristics of any
particular fleece to the student from whom
he accepts a premium. After a student
leaves the Tech, with his certificate he is
equipped with a knowledge which enables
him to quickly grasp the practical side of the
business, and this is taught by the classer in
the shed.
WESTRALIA FOR SHEEP.
“Busselton” Since South Aus. and Vic-
toria’s Western District pastoralists started
to take an active interest in the possibilities
of Westralia there has been a thirst for
information on the subject. The pastoral
lands of Westralia stretch from the Kim-
berleys to the Bight, and comprise a large
variety of edible shrubs and feed.
In the Far North, from Derby to Wynd-
ham, the country is to a very large extent
unexplored. Those portions of it which are
settled are given over to cattle-raising.
The native grasses are of too rank a growth
and the climate is too tropical for sheep.
Along the Fitzroy River there are several
sheep-stations, and further east, around and
north of Hall’s Creek, there are larger areas
which are believed to be suitable for sheep.
Here the tropical nature of the climate tends
to grow fine wool of a short staple. The
average cut for the settled district is only
about 41b. or 441 b. of wool, but it is believed
that this could be increased with careful
and intelligent breeding.
The eastern portion of the Lower Kimber-
ley offers fine possibilities. It is not so tropi-
cal in climate as the coastal region, and
therefore would be far more suitable for
sheep. There, is an assured rainfall; and
water is obtainable at shallow depths.
South of the Lower Kimberley is the
Nor’-West Division, one of the oldest
(Continued on page 31.)


BROCK WAY
to?
07*
80,000 miles
A Brockway ’bus with a stock
model engine, as fitted in this
truck, recently completed 80,000
miles of passenger running with-
out a single engine repair or re-
placement. (Full particulars on
request.)
Similar good service can be ex-
pected of every Brockway — it's
built for it.
mma
llilii
: '
r
mm-
/•
a
m
n
■
W A
9 H 8
mSm
■
I '7WM
mKSmmSMSm
A
31
mk
POWER
LESS ENGINE WEAR L
DEFINITE
ADVANTAGES
MOTOR (Wisconsin) : Lubri-
cation by pressure feed
through drilled crank shaft
the recognised best method.
Overhead valve mechanism
runs in bath of oil. Force
feed through hollow rocker
shaft.
GEAR BOX (Brown Lipe) :
Fitted with Timken tapered
roller bearings throughout.
Easily adjusted to take up
wear. Less risk of damage to
gear teeth.
DRIVE: Two-piece shaft with
Spicer universal joints an
exceptionally good feature.
The "whipping” which occurs
with one-piece shafts is
eliminated. Final drive by
spiral bevel gear.
REAR AXLE: Of “full-float-
ing” type axle shaft carries
none of the truck’s weight,
but is used as a drive only.
Mounted on Timken tapered
roller bearings. There’s no
safer, more efficient system.
IGNITION: High-tension Mag-
neto most dependable for
all truck work—practically
foolproof.
ACCESSIBILITY: Cylinder
head removable, magneto and
carburettor both easily acces-
sible. Nothing intricate about
design of motor.
A motor that develops 50 h.p. at the low engine speed of 21 00 r.p.m.
naturally is subjected to less wear and tear on heavy service or fast runs.
And that is an important feature of the specially designed overhead
valve motor in the Brockway 35cwt. Model E Highway Express Speed
Truck. This explains the chief reason for its longer life and greater
reliability—its lower maintenance and running costs.
Oil consumption is a little under half a pint per 1 000 miles —the
petrol average, I 5 miles per gallon. Rated speed 40 m.p.h.
The Brockway chassis is exceptionally strong —braced with five
cross members. It mounts a roomy body—l Ift. x 6ft.
Before ordering any truck it will pay you to test the Brockway—a
convincing demonstration will be arranged whenever convenient. Write
to the nearest address below for particulars.
Brockway equipment is complete—two-unit starting and lighting
system, battery, electric headlights with dimmers, dash and tail lights,
electric horn, speedometer, rear vision mirror, power tyre pump, 5
32 x 6 cord tyres, extra rim and set of tools.
THE RIGHT WAY
n
MOTOR
TRUCKS
N.S.W
VICTORIA. .
AGENTS
Brockway Motors, Ltd., 56-58
Parramatta Road, Camperdown.
Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty.,
Ltd., 628 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
and Creswick .Road, Ballarat.
S. AUSTRALIA: Campbell & Worthington, Ltd.,
221-2-3 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND: Brockway Motors (Queensland),
Ltd., Ann Street, Valley, Brisbane.
W. AUSTRALIA Associated Motors, Ltd., 92 Stirling
Street, Perth.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Denton & Co., Newmarket,
Auckland.
HAWKES BAY, N.Z. Anderson & Hansen, Ltd..
Dickens Street, Napier.


LONG LIFE
r
1
►
a
%
7
BATTERIES
IN MOULDED CONTAINERS
TYPE 6—XC9—IGL,
for running-board mounting.
Upholding'
the honour
of a
Great Name
TYPE 3—XCI3—ISH,
for chassis mounting.
Suitable for Arrol-
Johnston, Standard,
Armstrong-Siddeley,
.Hillman, Rover and
most cars with 12-
volt systems.
Voltage - - 12 volts
Capacity, 5 7 amp.
hrs. at the 20-hr.
rate of discharge.
Dimensions - - 7in.
wide x 14;jin. long
over lugs x 9fin.
high over lid.
Weight - - -741 b.
Holding-down bolts
;fin. diam. x 12 Jin.
centres.
For more than 35 years the
makers of the Exide Battery
have stood for all that is finest
and best in batteries. The Exide
reputation has been ensured by a
policy of constant experimenting,
testing, and careful building. And
from Exide have emanated many
improvements that have definitely
affected and advanced the entire
battery industry. Among recent
oroducfions is the range of Exide
Monobloc batteries, as illustrated.
Suitable for most
cars using a 6-volt
system.
Voltage - - - 6 volts.
Capacity: 85 amp,
hrs. at the 20-hr.
rate of discharge.
Dimension: 7 5-1 6in.
'■gm.
'tin.
high
handles.
over
Weight - - - -461 b.
They possess the enormous cranking power and long life
always associated with Exide. The material of which they
are made (not put on the market until after years of testing
both at home and in the tropics) is superior to any other. It
is unaffected by heat or cold, and is chemically inert.
There is an Hxib&TYPE to suit EVERY CAR a nd SERVICE
behind it
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., LTD., Hunt Street, off Wentworth
Avenue, Sydney.
Q’LAND: “EXIDE” BATTERY SERVICE (Q.), LTD., 472-474 Queen
Street, Brisbane.
S. AUS.: UNBEHAUN & JOHNSTONE, LTD., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
W. AUS.: UNBEHAUN & JOHNSTONE (W.A.), LTD., Radio House,
383-387 Murray Street, Perth.
VIC.: A. P. SUTHERLAND, Queen Bridge (2 Maffra Street), South
Melbourne.
NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
HOPE, GIBBONS, LTD., Wellington, Auckland and Christchurch.


Low-cut, crepe-soled
brogues
Springy and soft underfoot
—soled and heeled with tough,
crude rubber. The upper is of
pliant brown calf which, with
light polishing, takes on a
handsome gloss. It s finished
in modified brogue style.
An ideal sports shoe for the
hardest wear. The arched lac-
ing fits over the instep without
strain. And, the neat shape
is preserved by a stout leather
foundation to which the rubber
sole is sewn.
Order by post
Ask, as well, for a supply of the
correct Abbey Polish at 6d. per
tin, and for a free copy of the 40-
page colored catalogue of the chief
styles of men’s, women’s and child-
ren’s footwear.
Brown Calf - - 35/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
L G2. SYDNEY
Htr«
STICK
Cuticura Shaving Stick
Medicated And Soothing
Keeps The Skin Healthy
It produces a creamy, lasting
lather which doubles razor efficien-
cy and makes shaving easy for ten-
der-faced men, while its delicate
medication keeps the skin clear
and healthy.
Soap ls.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co.,Sydney ,N.S.W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
<GW£Y
k HAIR
Iwowmj
" SPOIL
IT J
\
v\°
\v>
\e»
\£ e
am
<«v e
A* e
VA' G
NV e ?
r &
?>* a t.
S l °
flLr WALNUT
ffAv h STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
CRAIG and AITKEN
c\/r\liirv DISTRIBUTORS FOR
5Y UNE- Y CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
(>tufrßejl
The Cigar of generous size and weight.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d.
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 40/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free.
m
' v- • >'•
tk" VENUS
ilans tk Work
m
*
The first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PcNCILS Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
17 Blacklead Degrees 68-9 H sd. each - 4/S per dozen, Super Copying (Medium & Hard) 6d
each - o/y per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
settled portions of the State. In the coastal
areas and as far east as Marble Bar, jnac-
tically every acre is given over to sheen.
The average cut of wool is tilb. ©pimtex
covers a large area; it produces good wool
and is highly drought-resistant. The only
portion of this division available for settle-
ment is the east.
South of this are the Gascoyne and the
Murchison, old-established districts also. 1 he
average cut of wool varies from 71b. to 101 b.,
and is of excellent quality. The feed covois
a wide range; but scrub and various top
feeds predominate. Water is obtainable at
reasonable depths. As in the Nor AY est the
only scope for development lies in the east.
South of the Gascoyne and the Murchison
are the agricultural areas. East of these
lie the Eastern Division and what are termed
the Eastern Goldfields areas, comprising 1
the country surrounding and east of Kal-
goorlie and for a considerable distance nort-i.
It is in the Eastern Goldfields area that the
newer South. Aus. and Vic. pastoralists are
operating; it produces excellent wool, and
sheep will cut as much as 101 b. There aie
great areas of saltbush country.
In the districts mentioned there is a large
scope for pastoral settlement. All the avail-
able country is, it is true, a considerable
distance from rail or shipping centres, as
the first arrivals naturally went no further
afield than was necessary. Motor transport
has, however, to a very large extent over-
come the disability of distance. A moie
serious problem is the dingo, but even that
can be solved.
“DOCTORING” A BULL.
“N.M.L.” : “Ignorant” asks about throw- (
ing and castrating a bull. If the ‘hull has
age, why throw him? More than half the
injuries in castration are caused through
throwing and the straining against ropes
when thrown.
If there is a crush, that is the proper
place. Let him walk in there, and when
lie’s jambed at the end slip a couple of rails
across the crush behind him. T hesc must
be low. Failing a crush, and if we can t get
the bull in a bail, let us rope him round
the horns and draw him up to a fence.
The main thing is that the purse should be
taken between the bull’s hind legs and the
operation performed from behind. Under no
conditions must the purse be dragged out to
one side under the flank. Slit the purse on
one side, continuing well down to the bottom
of the purse to allow free drainage, and take
out the testicle. Slit the bag which envel-
opes it and squeeze the test out fre-c of that
bag. Draw the test slightly, cut it free from
its attachment to the envelope at the bottom
end, and then slice through the cord about
two to three inches above the test, leaving
the discarded envelope to slip back. Some
men insist that the envelope must be broken
from the test, and not cut. Others take
Afferent views. A man may please himself.
It makes no difference to tlie_ recovery or
later growth of the bull. Having done one
side, repeat on the other.
When castrating a bull standing, the oper-
ator need have no fear whatever about the
animal kicking or plunging. It may flinch
a bit when the first incision is made wit a
the knife; after that it seems to enjoy the
process. Keep the slits in the purse well
down and allow plenty of drainage; use a
disinfectant if you wish. And the proper
place to put anything to discourage flies is
on the tuft of hair at the end of the bull’s
tail. He’ll swish that through good and
plenty and anoint himself as a protection
against flies.
If the bull is to be thrown, let the same
work be done as that taken to throw a horse.
When the bull’s down, though, there’s no
need to employ a loin-rope. In fact, a leg-
rope on the top leg is not needed at all.
Let the operator slip his own leg in between
the bull’s two hind legs, lever them apart and
hold them spread while he operates. And
always remember the danger is in ratio to
your own fear.
FERTILITY OF EGGS.
“A. 8.”; The result of an experiment by
Dr. F. A. Crew, of the Animal Research
Department of Edinburgh University, is
contrary to our experience. Regarding
the time of onset of fertility after the
introduction of the male bird, it was
determined that fertile eggs can be expected
within from 24 to 28 hours of the penning,
and that the life of the sperm within the
hen is between 15 and 20 days; also, though
the male bird was removed and another
substituted, the influence of the first bird
was not extinguished until between 7 and
10 days.
Generally in Australia poultry-breeders
will not pin their faith to these figures, and
only optimists would think of setting eggs
from a hen unless the male bird had been
mated at least 14 days. But much depends
on the stock birds and the state of their
health when the birds are put together. The
most accurate results are always obtained
when a young male bird is used. Also the
results are better, as a rule, when the male
birds have been removed to separate pens
after the breeding-season.
THE EMPIRE’S PIPE.
Robert Williamson (Lond.) : A big mar-
ket for Australian tobacco, if it is good,
exists in England. This is the opinion of
Messrs. Peel and Dowson, who have pio-
neered the sale of Empire tobaccos in Lon-
don. A similar view is expressed by Messrs.
Cohen, Weenen and Co., tobacco manufac-
turers, who, with the steady improvement in
quality, have built up a large sale of African
tobacco. The trouble with Australian tobacco
at present is its grittiness and immaturity,
but Messrs. Peel and Dowson believe this
can be changed, for the immature leaf is the
result of a weak plant and lack of care in
its early stages of growth. “We can sell
large quantities of the tobacco, but at pre-
sent nine out of every 10 lots is two-fifths
green,” said Peel and Dowson’s representa-
tive. In answer to an inquiry whether the
present experiment in Bathurst (N.S.W.),
where seed-beds are being coveled with “vita-
glass,” was likely to produce the desired
maturity and eliminate the gnttincss which
in turn militates against a good aroma, tne
opinion was given that such an experiment
would help to produce tobacco as good as
any in the world.
The general opinion in the tobacco trade
is that, with the preferential duty given to
all Empire tobaccos, the Australian has a
big pull over the American, provided the
proper care can be taken in the early stages
of growth. The climate and soil in Africa
and Australia are as good, and in Australia
such conditions are superior in some dis-
tricts. As to manufacture, which plays an
important part, no fear is expressed.
A horticulturist with experience in Aus-
tralia was of the opinion that the vitaglass
experiment should be a big aid to tobacco-
culture in Australia, as the sunlight and
natural heat needed a certain refinement,
which could be secured by this new method.
amateur ilerd-testing.
“Test Tubes”: “Paul C.’s” par. (B.
15/2/’2B) has given me a nightmare since I
read it for fear some innocent novice may
have sucked up sulphuric acid into a pipette.
True, “Paul ,C.” warns them to be careful,
and tells them of painful results. Painful
results! I should say so. The poor devil
would be in hospital for weeks if he got a
mouthful of it. As a matter of fact the acid
is measured out (17.5 c.c.) into a marked
measuring-glass and poured gently down the
side of the testing bottle. Incidentally, in
my own practice the temperature of water
used in the operation is 100°, and the
second turning is continued for three
minutes.
But, for the sake of amateur testers,
please inform all and sundry that strong
sulphuric acid is the Devil incarnate, and gets
the respect it deserves from those who know
anything about it.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“B-Gar”: For temporary blindness in
horses caused by eating paddy-melons, blow
boracie acid in the eye, using a paper funnel
for the purpose. If not taken in time it
may be necessary to use powdered bluestone.
The use of powdered glass, vinegar or salt
is atrocious, often causing complete loss of
sight.
“H.J.” : “Silentio’s” handy poultry-trough
(B. 15/2/’2B) would be improved if kept at
least four inches off the ground and one-inch
slats placed every three inches along the
roof-guttering. This will stop the fowls from
scratching' out the food and causing waste.
The poultry grain-ration will also be im-
proved at this time of the year if it includes
at least 40 per cent, of maize.
“A.R.”: In young orchards where young
growth has been phenomenal, it is wise to
rub off about 15 per cent, of the shoots
which are keeping the light and air
from the centre of the trees. This will put
strength into the bearing limbs" for next year.
Also all suckers at the trunk base should
be removed to mitigate the spread of aphis.
A spraying of black leaf 40 (according to
formula) on the trunk of the trees is a great
cleanser in autumn-time.
“R.J.” : Autumn-grown cabbages are sub-
ject to the cabbage moth, but, if early atten-
tion is given, the crop can be kept clean.
From a fortnight after planting out give a
regular weekly dusting of equal parts of
lime and tobacco-dust. Apply it in the
morning while the dew is on the leaves, and
do not water until 24 hours after the dust-
ing. Both the lime and tobacco-dust are
helpful fertilisers, and will also keep away
snails and slugs.
“Bill R.” : The jolting caused by trotting
a long journey often causes a grass-fed horse
to scour, weaken, and eventually knock up.
When the symptoms are first apparent call
at the next wayside house and give him a
bucket of water in which has been stirred
a pint of flour. Then spell him for half an
hour.
“Ek Rasure”: To drench a sow without
fear of choking, pass a running noose around
the upper jaw, draw tight and attach to a
rafter of the sty so that her head is main-
tained at ordinary level. Then insert in her
mouth one end of a piece of old hose-pipe, a
funnel being fitted to the other. Into this
the drench is slowly poured. The sow keeps
chewing the piping, and' an otherwise trouble-
some feat is rendered easy and safe.
“Ken”: When the eggs are getting smaller
the ciiances are you are not giving enough
greenstuff. Meat-meal for supply and green-
stuff for size.
“Ascot”: Broody hens will be the chief
trouble during the next month or two, but
the man who gives his hens a weekly dose of
Epsom salts in the drinking water will not
suffer nearly as much as the man who takes
no precautions.
“Ken”: It helps to keep hens cool in hot
weather if you sprinkle the evening mash
with a little flowers of sulphur. But too
much is lowering; only give it during real
sultry weather, and not oftener than once a
week.
“L.S.L.” : “Hornby’s” stook (B. 25/l/’2B)
is almost as bad as the one he condemns;
also, the size of the stook should depend on
the crop—even an energetic worker will not
carry sheaves far. The best stook is one
on the gable-roof plan, built with the gable-
ends facing the wind, so that a child can
crawl through from one end to the other
without upsetting the stook. Each sheaf is
thus almost surrounded by open air, rain
cannot settle in the stook, and the sheaves
are readily picked up when carting. As a
girl-child I built hundreds of this type of
stook, and once saw a 25-acre field of oats
stand up to a fierce gale and flood. Only one
or two stooks were flat when the flood-
waters subsided. If a small girl, handling
sheaves two to three feet taller than herself,
can build good stooks that picked up per-
fectly dry in two or three days, there is no
excuse for men to bungle such a simple job.
* * * *
“A.McR.”: “Ken” writes (B. 5/l/’2B)
that Boulia had a total rainfall of four
inches in seven years. Last year was the
driest we have ever experienced, and I
attach certified list of rainfall, three inches.
The average is 10 inches for the last 40
years.


ẃ
ẅ
CORK TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
Where there’s a Jill there’s a jay.
After all, every woman is a sport—she
likes to have a good nag.
This hot weather makes a man mouth at
the troth.
“Are you fair to your ice-chest?” asks
the Sydney News. Fair! Why, we even
take her to bed with us.
Now that the new Ford is on the market,
we are informed that a powerful synidcate is
buying up all the old ones with the idea of
using them as tin hares.
SHIP-BOARD PASTIMES.
“Fancy, three men have kissed me already. I wonder
what I ought to do about it?”
“I dunno. You might have a sweep on the run.”
“Nothing to wear!” was once woman’s
lament; now it appears to be her ambition.
* *
The part of Hinkler’s flight that will prob-
ably cause most astonishment a few years
hence is the fact that lie brought a full case
of whisky all the way.
“Always wear flannels,” says Mick to me.
“Always wear flannels, me bhoy,
And no matter how ivet and cowld ye be
Ye’ll always be wUrrm and droi.”
n.s.w. Penn.
* *
Wireless has been blamed for the floods
which have recently swept the country.
Apparently the broadcast lectures have made
more than us cry.
Writing in the Mirror, a woman states
that her dress bill for last year was £2(i.
That seems a lot of money to pay for half
a yard of ninon.
The chairman of the N.S.W. Traffic Com-
mittee said recently that a real good slogan
that motorists would always bear in mind
was wanted. But they already have a
popular one : “That’s a pedestrian—after it!”
* *
A traveller who returned to Maoriland
the other day stated that the Prince of
Wales is not anxious to get stout. No doubt
the Prince has heard the classic expression
“The heavier they are, the harder they fall.”
MODESTY.
Sunday Morning. —The sweet young
flapper stands on the beach in her one-
piece bathing costume, cut very low, and
with legs that are very brief (the costume’s).
She gaily chats to the milkman who, for the
day, is a beach sheik.
Monday Morning. —Peeping her head
round the half-opened door, dressed all
except for her stockings, she addresses the
milkman thus: “Give me the milk, please,
through the door. I can’t come out because
I’m only half dressed.”
Jacobs: “Ain’t you frightened of der clerks
settin’ fire to der bizzness ven dey smoke
in der office?”
Cohen: “If I vasn’t, I vouldn’t let ’em.”
* *
“Sister Sadie,” in the Woman’s Mirror,
recently offered prizes to her kiddie readers
for the best drawings depicting the fashions
of 100 years hence. We believe there is a
brilliant future for the small contributor who
wrote lamenting that he wasn’t very good
at drawing nothing.
* *
The Mayor of Nottingham, who received
100 replies to a Westralian accountant’s
appeal for a wife, says it is quite a mistake
to treat such a matter frivolously.
Don’t laugh because a hundred rush
llis pica with claims imperious:
One wife or two may be a joke,
But this is pretty serious.
A hundred maidens —think of it!
A hundred maids hysterical!
Or half of them! He’ll need to be
A positive young miracle.
A visitor talking about
the expensi veness of Syd-
ney says that “beer is
worth sixpence a glass,
and whisky is worr.h nine-
pence a nobbier.’ He
means costs, of course.
“Many of our girls,”
complains a manufac-
turer, “do not wear Aus-
tralian-made stockings
and other clothing.” Still,
there should be no com-
plaint so long as they
continue not to wear any
other sort either.
A Chelsea (Eng.)
spiritualist states that
the late afternoon is a
most favorable time for
seeing the psychic body
outside the normal body
of a woman. We’ve
noticed the same pheno-
menon in regard to lamp-
posts.
A man charged with
forging a number of
cheques at Melbourne
pleaded that he had been
drinking for ten days and
didn’t know what be was
doing. It must be dread-
ful to have a palate as
useless as that.
Few women regret the past. Fewer still
live to remember it.
Men marry to settle down, and then dis-
cover that most of their time is occupied
in settling up.
“An air pilot,” says a cable, “is regarded
by the National Assurance Institute at
Rome as being as safe an insurance risk
as an ordinary citizen.” A city pedestrian,
however, refuses to believe that flying is as
risky as all that.
A husband in a recent court case said he
didn’t know his wife was bad-tempered until
she hit him with a saucepan. Then he
suddenly dropped to it.
NOT MUCH TO JUDGE BY.
“How do you like my new costume? It’s a sample.”
“Gracious! They don’t cut you off much of a piece nowadays,
do they?"
Even the winds find in our flappers’
dresses nothing much to blow about.
* *
Scientists blame sun spots for the recent
wet weather. If this means that the stuff
that has been coming down is what old Sol
takes to drink, we don’t think much of his
taste.
“Blue bottles were particularly numerous
and at Manly more than 400 bathers were
treated,” says the S. M. Herald. We anti-
cipate a number of migrants being killed
in the rush when that news reaches Britain.
WHAT ALGY DID IN THE WAR.
ALGY: “Oh, I got on famously with her. She
asked me what I did in the war. And
when I told her my chauffeur won the
V.C. she was quite bowled over, don-
cherknow!”
A writer to a Melbourne paper states it
as his opinion that the recent breaking of
the drought was due to the electrical dis-
turbances caused by broadcasting. This looks
like a mean attempt to discredit the Govern-
ment.
Little Jack Horner
Stood on the corner,
Watching the trams go by;
He felt no wild thrill,
As he saw legs and frill,
’Cause demand now’s below the supply.
* *
What’s a girl to do? If she wears her
skirts short they say she’s brazen; if she
wears them long, then she’s bow-legged.
* *
“Why,” asks Ber-
nard Shaw, “should
anyone in London
want to go to New
York?” Why, in-
deed, considering
that in these days
of wireless they’d
still run the risk
of hearing Mr.
Shaw.
* *
“Spike” Sullivan,
an ex - champion
boxer, has been
fined for hitting a
man and knocking
him down. The
charge, we learn,
was not cne of
assault, but of un-
professional con-
duct.
* *
Ann Suter, the
comedienne, says
she sits in front of
a mirror three
times a week and
twists her face into
as many outlandish
expressions as pos-
sible. Judged by
the faces seen in the
streets, she hasn’t
that on her own.
The winner of a
Sydney beauty com-
petition which
closes on April 24
will have the choice
between a husband
and a monetary
prize. We hasten
to congratulate the
happy couple.
The Sydney
Guardian says it
is a wise woman
who keeps a spare
pair of stockings in her handbag in case
rain should fall and muddy the streets. In
case the rain should wet her, it might not
be a bad idea if she carried a spare lot of
the rest of her clothing in her purse.
❖ *
“Almost every week,” says a S. M.
Herald leader-writer, “sees some new ad-
vance in the romantic story of the conquest
of the air.” Indeed, the time cannot be far
off when we will have ’planes strong enough
to rise with a Herald leader aboard.
Mary had a little dress,
Of sillc as ivhite as snow,
And everywhere the fashion went
That dress was sure to go.
OUR VISITORS.
The Imperial Statesman : You have done
so much in such a little time. I am amazed.
I am astounded. I am stirred. Above all, I
am pleased. I love your cities and the
country. I admire your politicians....
Parties? Are there parties? I did not know.
All are one in their enthusiasm for our
great Imperial heritage. I only wish I
could have stayed longer. I would have
liked to go right into the back-country, to
the very outposts of settlement, only I have
to hurry home. But I will come back. As
soon as I can I will return.
The Famous Soprano : Curses and curses
seize the place! May the infernal frigidiry
of your concert-halls blast your bones! You
know nothing of art. Nothing. Curse you!
The Other Famous Soprano : My friends,
my dear, dear friends!
The Capitalist : Oomph. Country’d be
all right if your politicians and Labor-
leaders would leave it alone. You will never
develop your industries if you continue to
protect your manufactures like you do. Your
workpeople will starve if they don't accept
less wages. Invest my money? Eh!
The Famous Explorer: Your deserts are
immense. I was alone in the wilderness for
three and a half hours. I discovered a mil-
lion square miles that mortal man had never
seen before. You will be able to read about
it in the London papers when I get back.
I have four photographs of the hitherto
almost unknown native ceremony called Kor-
robberree. One day I will come back and
discover a lot more for you.
The Millionaire Farmer: I suppose it’s
the same here as it is everywhere—rotten
seasons; either too wet or too dry.
Obadiah Ren.
BALLADE OF A PHENOMENON.
Now that the useful cloak of night
Is hung about the staring day.
And stars glow too far off to light
The sheltered walks around the bay,
Poets may weave a roundelay
Of skirts and more the wind has blown:
But I’ve a stranger theme than they —
A sailor’s going home alone.
What though the tombstones take to flight!
What though the drunks think not of cray!
What though street buildings, blithe and
tight,
With gum-trees dance a twig-step gay!
Or smoke-stacks stalk the bush and play
At hide-and-scelc, while bunyips moan!
H ere, here’s a stranger thing, / say —
A sailor’s going home alone.
A sailor clad in jacket tight;
Trousers loose as a modern play;
A tall and very lustful wight
Is walking down the twilit way.
And ne’er a Kate is there nor Fay
To stop him with that dulcet tone
Which has some magic to delay
A sailor’s going home alone.
Envoy.
So, Princess, ends my simple lay;
The strangest thing that I hare known:
Leap Year —and through the twilit way
A sailor’s going home alone.
N.S.W.
MACANN.


75 uca
-and pre-eminent
°ia
s
?PJIe
S/2
s/>e
Hojl
or
Hme
m
■'4
y l '
as
i2)€
K
'J
Or;;
"*«o
our/
n gR
“nab
IVp
°'-it
*?S
Old
Sears
f^ofca
Of
8 «l'
Uri Par
Ca °0 U f
«3e
s erv
tf ig
sh t T
Of
On
ice
*av e
° nn *nu
Wheels
a^ e
b;7e
c a .
s Pp
*9J
e Osf
e *£>e
Oor
P- r oc;
rj ned
r fS
° se ot s
«n
re sted
ever
opr
d/r
are
and
Hn
the
the
ect
eve
Wsh
stand
fall
C 3/\S
land
e Pt.
3rd
Part
are
‘ciil a
3 c 4„
°WJ
cap
e dgecf
°fh
Cr s
by
opr
3re
f esf
a Ufo
est
w
saies
a Sem
OTq
****er
°*Ks
°SI/ t
Writ e
SOc,
z>
ztio
°SL
G tf
* c *n.
u ‘°»tob
V
’•Voctu
A
r *r s
'thd host thin#
on whoals''
WENTY-FIVE years ago, when
motoring was very young, in the
page advertisement from “American
Life ” reproduced here Oldsmobile
claimed to be“the best thing on wheels. 99
Since that distant time many maizes
have come and gone, but Oldsmobile,
keeping pace with motor-car develop -
min', has remained a leader in the
industry.
'Y'HIS year, Oldsmobile has not only far sur-
passed the records of any previous year,
but in percentage of gain it has gone far
ahead of the industry.
Compare the Oldsmobile of to-day with
any other car on the basis of beauty, quality
of material, workmanship and price. In all
it far surpasses its field.
Finely built in every part; abundantly
powerful with a marvellous top-gear range,
perfectly balanced for the road, it is a stylish
and delightful car to drive.
Its equipment includes —Harmonic Bal-
ancer, Crankcase Ventilator, Oil Filter, Air
Cleaner, Twin-beam Headlights, and highly-
efhcient four-wheel brakes.
An Oldsmobile demonstration will con-
vince you that this should be your next car.
c j9is Jop-Cear Six
The Tourer £298. The Special Tourer £325. The Sport Roadster £325.
The Two-door Sedan £370. The Four-door Sedan £425.
Prices at Company’s Works All States. All Models Equipped with 5 Balloon Tyres and Tubes.
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR : : BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
GENERAL MOTORS (AUS.) PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne - - Sydney - - Brisbane - - Adelaide - - Perth.
THE TOURING MODEL
THE SPORTS ROADSTER
the: tvx/o-door sedan


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luva, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; \V. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. j. Evan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE . . . . . . BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
:
v a -
IJ s^.T
/T\
X •
\ A
\ i
v,
S,—•
¥
L»j X
-**
a*
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Poverty
Point
“C. 8.”: The Gilbert and Sullivan com-
pany, passing through Melbourne the other
day en route for Adelaide, set up a justi-
fiable shout of self-gratulation. The crowd
lias travelled 26,000 miles, and only three
of its number are not Australians. The
first is a world’s record, and the second, I
think, an Australian record.
“Hamfat”: “Escapologist” Murray is
another Australian who has returned to his
native land with vaudeville honors thick
upon him. It was in Melbourne as a boy
of 12 that Murray gave his first show',
though lie had startled his relatives by his
ability to get out of locked rooms years be-
fore. That infant show, given in aid of
War funds, ran for 14 days at the Exhibi-
tion Building. A couple of years later
young Murray, who is now only in his early
twenties, conducted a magic tent for a war
fete at Ivatoomba. lie ran away to sea
soon after, and reached London, where his
turn went well.
“Santel”: Film censors may cut chunks
out of imported movies, but apparently sub-
titles go free. The best for years appears
in Gazette 238. A Yankee military review
is titled: “An army in which a fighting
machine such as the Australian 1914-18
forces would be as a feather in a Greenland
blizzard.”
“Bora-dow-oon” : Recent mention of Smiler
Hales reminds me. About 1905 Smiler was
touring S.A. with the Boxer Rising moving
pictures, plus a racy description of the main
events from the stage. During his season at
Moonta some Chinese prisoners to be ex-
ecuted by a large, outsize executioner were
shown. The executioner’s oft'sider had to
grab each head after it left the body and
hold it up to the camera. Smiler warned
the ladies present to turn their eyes aside
during this scene, but the casualties included
one fit and foftr faints. For the whole season
Smiler bad a full house. The execution scene
was deleted when the show appeared later
in Adelaide.
“East-Side”: Elmer Rice, the American
playwright (B. 22/2/’2B), was formerly
Elmer Rietenstein; he changed surnames
during the war. Under his earlier appel-
lation he was responsible for the ingenious
drama “On Trial,” seen in Australia some
years ago, and of which “The Trial of Mary
Dugan” is reminiscent.
“Cine Ma”: Australian picture-theatre
proprietors are watching a new move in
France. This French revolution is a screen
of three times the customary area. Three
cameras, one on top of the other, are used to
take the picture, and three machines along-
side each other project it. The irritating
close-up, with its habit of interrupting a
situation, is eliminated. The hero, satis-
fyingly life-size, can plant a kiss on the
lips of the rescued heroine, while the back-
ground of bursting dam and drowning vil-
lagers goes on behind them. A film with
Napoleon as the central figure has shown
the possibilities of the device. The last
charge at AVaterloo can be followed right
up to the point where it smashes itself on
the British lines, the figure of the Man of
Destiny being still the focal point of the
action. Fervent believers in the new idea
say that in a few years’ time theatres that
cannot treble the size of their sheet will be
out of date.
“A\ r igs”: Under the E. J. Carroll manage-
ment an English leading man of repute,
Percy Hutchison, will shortly begin an Aus-
tralasian tour at Melbourne Athenseum with
his own company. His repertory, of course,
includes a mystery play. “The Joker,” by
an English doctor, Noel Scott. Another
piece in Hutchison’s grip is Seymour Hicks’s
latest farcical comedy, taken from the
French, and called “Mr. AVhat’s-his-name.”
“Santander” : The success of “Tlie Three
Musketeers” turned into a music-show under
the title of “The Swordsman” should en-
courage further burrowing into the old
romances for picturesque librettos. “The
Swordsman” had an excellent try-out at
Nottingham under the supervision of Oscar
Asclie, and old friend Edwin Brett was well
mentioned for his cheerful tootling of a new
song which may become popular. The dances
were arranged by Espinosa, the hardened
but efficient little maitre-de-ballet who visited
Australia some years ago.
LEFT STANDING.
“Those old boys considered themselves a pretty fast lot. I wonder what became
of them?”
“Oh, arrested for obstructing the traffic ages ago.”
“P.H.” : The other night, walking up Mel-
bourne’s not-so-White Way, I noticed that
half the electric lights in the sign at the
Theatre Royal were not functioning. What
was left of the blood-red effusion —
Maurice Moseovitch
The Terror
—read as
Moseovitch
error.
Quite a fair criticism of the thriller.
“Hinemoa”: When “Fade Out” quoted the
appointment of Manny Aarons as an argu-
ment that picture-show proprietors were pre-
pared to give Australian organists a chance
against'foreigners (B. l/2/’2B) he probably
was unaware that Aarons was announced as
a Russian Jew. So “Kelly’s” argument
that the alien has preference holds good.
“L.H.P.” : Among the operas listed by the
Fuller-Gonsalez crowd is Marchetti’s “Ruy
Bias,” founded on Victor Hugo’s play. In
form and general outline it owes much to
Verdi’s influence, but the vein of tender
melody which runs through it strikes a note
of individual inspiration. It was originally
produced at La Scala in 1869, and Mapleson
presented it at London Her Majesty’s in the
’seventies. It was once staged at Windsor
Castle for seven consecutive nights, owing
to Queen Victoria’s infatuation for the
music. Lyster’s Italian co. opened a season at
M-elb. Royal, February 27, 1577, with it.
Paladini, Fabris, Gambetti and
(now teaching in Christchurch, Maoriland)
were in that show. It merits resurrection.
“L.H.P.” : Fullers are digging up an old-
timer in Bellini's “I Puritani.” Count
Pepoli's “book” is said to be founded on
Scott’s novel “Peveril of the Peak.” The
period is the burst-up between the Puritans
and Royalists. Lyster’s company introduced
it to Australia in the ’sixties with Henry
Squires (Arthur), Dehaga (Walton),
Frank Trevor (Bruno), Fred Lystcr (Sir
Richard Forth), Ada King (Queen Hen-
rietta) and Eliza Biscaceianti (Elvira).
Reiff conducted. The melodious work was
first performed in Paris in January, 1885.
“Santander” : Eugene O'Neill, still ponder-
ing over the futility of Man against the
forces of the Universe, has given birth to a
nine-acter, “Strange Interlude,” which the
Theatre Guild of New York has presented
with great empressoment. The piece started
at six o’clock, and with an interval finished
at eleven, but no one complained of the
length of the show. O’Neill’s taut, stark
English is a marvellous vehicle for the
drama boiling within him.
“R.K.D.N.” : Two of Australia’s song-and-
dance favorites, Jenny Hartley and Maud
Fane, though they never met on local boards,
have been playing opposite each other in
England. The sprightly Jenny was principal
boy and the more sedate Maud ditto girl in
the “Aladdin” pantomime at Newcastle
Theatre Royal. They were acclaimed by the
Tynesiders as ideal in their respective parts.
“Bardie” : The much-talked-of movie, “The
King of Kings,” which is the cinema version
of the story of Jesus Christ and His dis-
ciples, is due here shortly. The publicity
booklet telling of this Cecil B. de Mille
production is in front of me as I write. It
is a most ornate affair, filled with photo-
graphs of the various scenes and characters,
including one of 11. B. Warner as the Christ
and another of Dorothy Gumming as Mary.
There is a very long cast of characters, but
the thing that pleases me most is the photo-
graph, alongside the caption, of Jeanie Mac-
plierson. She is a shingled, permanent-
waved lady, and is modestly described as
“The Author.”
“Cyrano” (Loud.) : Flotsam, of the vaude-
ville stars Flotsam and Jetsam, off-stage is
Australian basso-profundo Malcolm McEach-
ern. The English comedian Dan Agar, who
worked with the Firm in “The Bing Boys
on Broadway” and “The Arcadians,” has
taken unto himself an Australian name—
Mel Sydney, which does honor to the capital
cities wherein he appeared. Sunny Ray, the
juvenile of provincial revues and musical
comedies, is Bert Smith, who worked for
years in Melbourne Tivoli office. TMttle
Anona Wilkins is now Anona Wyn in “Hit
the Deck” at the Hippodrome, under the
Clayton-Waller management. This show, by
the way, will be soon seen in Australia. It
is at present in the provinces with Josie Mel-
ville leading.
“Jon”: Lilian Davies, the liglit-cpera
singer, due in Australia shortly with the
Firm, has, according to London critics, the
most artistic voice and the most finished
technique on the light-opera stage. She is
at present appearing in “The Beloved Vaga-
bond,” a musical play based on Wm. J.
Locke’s novel. The music was written by
an Australian—Dudley Glass.
“Cauboy”: Last year seven virtuosi in
bewildering succession, trod on each other’s
concerts, which numbered 70-odd in each of
the two largest capitals. This year there
is likely to be none. Violinist Erica Moreni
was on order, but E. J. Carroll looked out
and saw the gathering storm of grand opera
and postponed her. Other entrepreneurs
would be wise to do the same.
“C. Ockney”: Cables have recently an-
nounced the hit scored in England by a
musical play “Lumber Love,” the work of
Emmott Adams and his sister, of Sydney.
The piece was given an excellent reception
on its trial trip at Birmingham. The
“book” is by an Englishman, Leslie Stiles,
whose previous effort, “Riki Tiki,” which
introduced Gladys Moncrieff to Ixmdon,
proved a disastrous misfire. But in that
lie had the Teuton Kunneke for his com-
poser-collaborator, and the music proved
unmelodious and heavy. The Adams score
is said to be light, bright and catchy.
“E. Side”: Allan Priora, the Australian
tenor, whose voice was classed by our entre-
preneurs as good enough only for picture
shows, is a big noise in America. After a
long run as the Student Prince, Priora (now
known as Prior) isi starring afresh in
“White Eagle,” a musical version of the
play* “The Squaw Man.” The piece is a
great success at the Casino, New York.
“Cmsar’s Ghost”: It must have struck
Dr. Richard Ludwig, who came from Vi-enDa
to make Australia his home, that Sydney is
woefiilly short of theatres. Besides picture
shows, Vienna owns 41 houses of entertain-
ment. Probably that is why Ludwig, having
bought into a big Sydney block, is going to
give the city a new theatre. He intends to
provide a mixture of “highbrow” produc-
tions from Shakspeare and Pshaw, and his
building will include supper-rooms where
audiences can retire to discuss the play. It
seems a good plan; merely listening to
intellectual plays bores many who may be
encouraged to face the ordeal if they can
follow it up by eating good food in an
atmosphere that will help them to a reputa-
tion for intellectuality.
“D.W.” : Is the vogue for the thriller type
of play a good sign or a bad? Anyway, it is
at least better than the sex souffles of Noel
Coward, which were so popular a year or
two ago. At present London is serving
no less than 12 of the Edgar Wallace variety,
with groans, ghosts and gasps in every act.
Two of these, “Dracula” and “Maria Mar-
ten,” were written many years ago, but
have all the proper blood-curdling ingre-
dients. During the run of “Dracula” some-
thing like 140 women have been carried from
the theatre in a fainting condition.
“A.V.A.”: Gladys Moncrieff, due shortly
to star under the Fullers’ direction, will
probably cause them to present later on
two operettas they hold—“ The Last Waltz”
(Strauss) and “The Gipsy Princess'
(Kalman). The rOles of Countess Vera
in “The Last Waltz” and of Sylva Varescu
in “The Gipsy Princess” demand an artist
who can act, and who also possesses a good
voice. Gladys can easily meet those require-
ments, and should satisfy all who prefer
musical comedy with real music.
“Goldilocks”: The purchase of the old
Town Hall site in Brisbane by the Fullers
is a link in the chain of theatres on the
model of the St. James, Sydney, which
brothers Ben and John intend to own. In
Adelaide the new theatre is to go up in
Rundle-street. The Auckland St. James is
to open in June, with “Archie” to give it a
start.
“Cine Ma”: Australian picture producers
should study “Grass,” a film made by the
same two enterprising Americans who created
“Chang” out of unpromising Siamese mat-
erial. Like “Chang,” “Grass” has absolutely
no acting in the Ilollywooden nonsense of the
term. It is simply the straightforward
camera recital of the migration of a Central
Asian tribe from their drought-smitten
country across swollen rivers and incredible
barriers of mountains to fresh pastures. It
is the sort of thing that the unimaginative
photographer would turn into merely a good
travelogue. Astute stage management, how-
ever, has converted it into a picture admir-
ably dramatic. When one thinks of the
average Commonwealth official scenic of the
irrigation industries or the frozen-mutton
business, one can’t help wondering whether
similarly good material isn’t being allowed
to run to waste.
A BALLAD OF LOSS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“While travelling on a cable tram in Collins-
street, Mr. Lionel Lindsay, the well-known artist,
was robbed of a wallet containing £21.”
AVlien youth was young, and art was art,
And rough and rugged was the mart
Where parsimonious patrons bid
For landscapes full of hills and trees
Fainted on canvas, beer and cheese,
AAJiat artist true owned twenty quid?
The garret, with the whiff perfumed
Of sausages that he consumed,
I lis unassorted genius hid ;
It would have been esteemed a joke
Had any soul satiric spoke:
“Dauber was robbed of twenty quid!”
In studios bare the beer went round
(Care was hilariously drowned)
The jovial pop of corks amid.
On happy wings the gay hours 11 ow,
Although those days old-fashioned knew
Few artists owning twenty quid.
Farewell to art’s Bohemian crown.
Lo ! money sticks where once it slid.
And miscreants mark the artist down
And frisk liis kick for twenty quid!
N.s.w.
HAMEAT.


ŵ


i 25,000 miles
in less than
23,000 mins.
Nothing made by man
in the history of the world
has ever travelled so far,
so fast, as the two Stock
Model Studebaker Com-
mander Roadsters, which
covered the above distance
capturing the greatest
records of all time for
speed and endurance.
-A
- -f - yv
1
&<».
i A
zMJ
r
s^-fr 7 *
Vi*
r ~ ', , B
fr»n
’■
piippipifini
« l 'l t ¥^^FWF
Between October io-ir,
a Studebaker Director
Stock Model Car set new
records for i, 6, 12 and
24 hours continuous driv-
ing tests—averaged
61.795 rni’.es per hour for
24 hours. All records
were supervised and
checked by the American
Automobile Association.
1482-96 miles
m 24- Hours
Speed Test
J) Power Giant
Jit Your Service -
The Director
A 5-passenger New
Studebaker Custom
Sedan.
€498
The Commander
A 5-passenger New
Studebaker Custom
Sedan.
€625
The President
A 7-passenger New
Studebaker Custom
Sedan.
€795
F.O.R. SYDNEY
'o ride in a New Studebaker
J- Custom Sedan is to experience
the ultimate joy and greatest thrill
of motoring.
Here is distinction to evoke ad-
miration. Here is restful riding
comfort to add to your pleasure.
Here is economical, velvet-smooth
power which nothing can baulk,
always ready to gratify your slight-
est wish—to serve you on the instant.
Come in to-day and drive one
yourself!
No Extras
To Buy
Complete equipment
includes bumper
bars front and rear,
snubbers, five balloon
tyres, disc wheels,
four - wheel brakes,
no-draught ventilat-
ing windscreen, auto-
matic windscreen
cleaner, rear-vision
m nor, thief - proof
lock, engine-thermo-
meter and petrol
gauge on dash, etc.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia, Limited, Sydney .
VICTORIA :
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd.
41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.)
Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important towns.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Millingens, Limited,
42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Adams Ltd., 152-154 High Street,
Christchurch.
$
Wtude&ahe/L
at
WMBBI


Pride’s White Lie !
“Sorry, I can’t go.” , , • j. ,
Into her young life has crept the ache of loneliness, because she is too proud to
share her secret with her friends. ,
Her relentless mirror tells the story; she was careless of her radiant teeth, and
their beauty slipped away. , „ „ ~ . . ; ~ .
Now she is paying because she forgot the first rule for all who would retain then
youthful charms; beware the beauty-thief Pyorrhea!
Pyorrhea strikes from ambush. No one is immune. You may be next.
If you would checkmate Pyorrhea, watch your gums! .
Pyorrhea begins with tender, bleeding gums. That is Nature s warning. Slowly
the gums recede, the teeth decay and loosen, pus pockets form, and 1 yorrhea germs
seep throughout the system. . ...
To these sinister germs the medical profession has traced many serious ms,
rheumatism, anmmia and nervous disorders of all kinds.
Four out of every five people past the age of forty and thousands under forty are
afflicted with Pyorrhea. Yet you can escape it if you will follow these simple rules. -
(1) Go to your dentist regularly for teeth and gum inspection. This is important.
(2) Start using Forlian’s for the Gums to-day.
Forhan’s for the Gums will not only prevent Pyorrhea,
but it will check its progress, if used consistently and used m
time. Forhan’s is also a pleasant dentifrice to use. It keeps the
teeth clean and white, the gums firm and healthy.
BRUSH YOUR TEETH WITH FORHAN’S—
HOW TO USE IT.
Use it twice daily, year in and year out. Wet your brush in
cold water, place a half-inch of the refreshing, healing paste
on it, then brush your teeth up and down. Use a rolling motion
to clean the crevices. Brush the grinding and back surfaces of
the teeth. Massage your gums with your Forhan-coated brush—
gently at first, until the gums harden, then more vigorously.
If the gums are very tender, massage with the. finger,; instead
of the brush, if gum-shrinkage has already set in, use Forhan’s
according to directions, and consult a dentist immediately for
special treatment.
Formula of R. J. FORHAN, D.D.S., Forhan Company,
NEW YORK.
PRICE, 2/- and 3/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores, or will be sent
post free upon receipt of the price by the
Australasian Agents, SHELDON DRUG CO., LTD.,
131 Clarence Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Forh. art’s for the gums
MORE THAN A TOOTH PASTE ... IT CHECKS PYORRHEA
Wmm
»
EG
mi
f> am
@c*af{
HAJft-CO.
of
CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID— 32 per cent. Na2o.
POWDERED-98 per cent. NaOH.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically • pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID* C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
CARBON TETRA CHLORIDE.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
CONCENTRATED SOLDER-
ING AND TINNING FLUXES.
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
In 100, 150 and 20001 b. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE, VICTORIA.
THE INKY WAY.
“Rose V.”: The first paper published in
N.S.W. outside of Sydney was the Maitland
Mercury, established in 1843. The next was
the Bathurst Free Press, which arrived
in 1847. The Goulburn Herald put in an
appearance a year later.
David Wright’s forte was the mellifluous
phrase rather than the brilliant mot, but he
achieved one short sentence for The Bulle-
tin which ought to last: “Beer makes a
man feel like he ought to feel without it.”
“Spare Sub”: Sydney Sun published an
announcement last week to the effect that
its new building will contain 5000 tons of
granite. Now we know what that very
saving concern does with its old leaders.
Robert Burns, who has been on the Adel-
aide Register literary staff for nearly 44
years and succeeded W. J. Sowden as editor
in October, 1922, retires from the direction
of the Grenfell-street journal shortly and goes
for a trip to the Cold Country. Burns
started reporting work in his native city of
Exeter (Eng.), and later was on the Glas-
gow News.
“Danker”: A few months ago I was in the
editorial office of one of the largest dailies
in America. I happened to mention the word
“abos.” while exchanging impressions with
the gentleman with the horn-rimmed spec-
tacles and acrobatic cigar. “So you have
them, too!” he commented placidly. “We call
them hoboes in this country!”
“T.R.H.”: The first Lord Burnham of the
London Daily Telegraph changed the
family name from Levy to Lawson. A
story still survives in Fleet-street of how
the old man once had his nose pulled by
an indignant comp., the assailant adding the
caustic remark: “Look ’ere, Mr. Levi Law-
son, you may change your name but yon
can’t change your konk!”
“Kwinana”: Australian coastal and over-
seas ships are the first in the world to print
a regular daily newspaper, the Wireless
News. The press reports are sent to the
ships at sea every evening at 8 o’clock from
Radio Central, Sydney; 11 hours later the
sheet appears with the morning tea. The
Wireless News is published on ships trad-
ing from Australia to England, America,
Maoriland, S’Africa an<j the East, as well
as on the coastal vessels.
“Lao-dah”: “Avon” (B. 15/2/’2B) com-
plains of the Auckland Sun featuring Ameri-
can syndicated bilge, but he doesn’t give that
paper the credit it deserves for inviting and
paying for literary work by Maorilanders.
As for Dr. Crane, what country is free
from his interminable puerilities? I have
met them solemnly translated into ideo-
graphs in a Chinese paper; and a Malay
journal in Java weekly supplies its readers
with a drench from the same laboratory.
TWIN SOULS.
THE PIRATE: “How did you know that your
last boy was married—did he tell you?”
THE PIRATED: “No, but he looked so sym-
pathetic when I told him I was.”
“Cire Ewol”: Can anyone show as varied
a collection of rejection slips as mine? I
have 37 different forms of refusal of MS.,
received from England, America and every
State in the Commonwealth. The briefest
has one printed word; the longest is an
elaborate affair of 10 lines, printed on a
gilt-edged card—the only thing missing
being a black border.
“Hugh Stone” : The Illawarra Mercury,
perhaps the oldest of the Ma State’s South
Coast papers—it dates from 1855 —is build-
ing itself new premises. Its present
weather-worn abode was raised in the days
when Wollongong’s communications with
Sydney were either by four-horse coach or
by paddle-wheel steamer, and population
naturally clustered about the port. When
the railway came it struck the South Coast
hub about a mile westward of the harbor,
and ever since the business end of the town
has been moving that way. The Mercury
has joined the procession.
“N.M.L.” : When a man gets on in years
he likes to see the old fellows shouldering
the youngsters out of the way occasionally.
Mick Paul was drawing for The Bulletin
before many of its present readers were born,
but one of his latest efforts (B. 5/l/’2B)
gives me as keen a pleasure as ever. It’s on
its own, and the next best to it, barring
some of the flashes of genius of Low and
Lindsay, is an old sketch I recall by Harry
Weston wherein an ancient sea-captain is
seen explaining that in his many years trad-
ing across Bass Strait he hasn’t missed the
tight little island mor’n three times.
May’s fisherman-lunatic joke went round the
world three or four times; the lion-tamer
dodging his wife in the cage is still going
strong; and if Paul’s joke about the
Amazonian wife telling the battered husband
that he’s lucky to get off with a caution isn’t
served up in many countries it will be pass-
ing strange.
Touching obituary notice of a M.L.
periodical:—
It is impossible for us to carry on, as we are
already behind with our printer’s bill and are unable
to carry the load any longer. There are some
subscribers to whom we will return, when we have
sufficient funds, what is due to them, if they so
desire it, but we are quite frank in admitting that
we hope that they will not do so, as we need much
more than we have in hand to settle with our printer.
“Tuart”: “Tennis and War” (B. 8/2/’2B)
may do something to raise the standard of
the tennis reports in some of the Great
Dailies. Cricket, football, boxing and other
sports are excellently chronicled, as a rule;
the great vogue of Australian football is due
SOMETHING FOR HIM TO BE
PROUD OF.
BILLY: "Let us found a mutual admiration
society. I will begin by admiring your
beautiful eyes. Now, what do you
admire about met”
BET: “Well, I—I admire your good taste!”
in no small degree to the fine work of the
scribes. But in the recording of tennis false
comparisons and grotesquely misapplied
adjectives are rife. There is nothing warlike
in the spectacle of two or four johnnies or
tabbies smacking an india-rubber ball about
an oblong of turf, but it has become the
fashion to describe their gyrations in lan-
guage appropriate to battlefields, and the
changes are rung on words like “terrific,”
“devastating,” “titanic,”. “Homeric” and
“epic.” The Great Dailies I have in mind
hire alleged experts to write this pitiful rub-
bish instead of handing over the job to
trained A.J.A. men.
A very old printer pied his last when
Charles Franklin, of Adelaide Register, died
the other day at S 3. He gave all his life to
the paper. Joining it as a boy in 1858, he
saw an old hand press at work by candle
light. The office celebrated his 50th year of
work, and then his 60th: then his 80th
birthday, and he was looking forward to
completing 70 years in the service when his
health gave way only two or three months
ago.
“Sir Sol”: Continuous complaints have
earned for Parsons, M.H.R. for Angas
(S.A.), the title of member for Anguish.
Others to wear spare titles in the Federal
Houses have been J. C. Neild (Jawbone),
Pulsford (Aunt Emma), Gray (Soapy),
Gould (Mary Ann), W. O. Archibald (the
Wombat), Higgs (the Undertaker), King
O’Malley (the Tasmanian Devil), P. O.
Fysh (the Catfish), Joe Cook (Holy Joe),
Forrest (Big John), W. H. Story (the
Human Buffalo), Conroy (“of the Yap”)
and Considine (the Native Companion).
One member was “the lion, member for
Long Ears and Hairy Tail,” whilst George
Reid was the “Survival of the Fattest.”
G. F. Hyde, en route for England to
bring out our two new cruisers, and just
promoted to Rear-Admiral, has been reported
in the dailies to be the first Australian
officer to reach flag rank. He is che first
officer of the R.A.N. to do so. The two
Gaunt brothers, sons of the Melbourne Judge,
became Admirals years ago. The elder,
Ernest, entered the R.N. as a cadet in the
ordinary way. The other, Guy (much in
the limelight of late), came on to the supple-
mentary lieutenants’ list from the merchant
service, on condition that he could not get
any higher, except for war service; the out-
break in Samoa in the ’nineties saved his
bacon. Hyde comes under an entirely
different category. He was an ordinary
merchant service naval reserve officer, lent
for a year’s training. Serving under Lord
Beresford and the present Admiral of the
Fleet, Sir Hedworth Meux (formerly Lamb-
ton of Ladysmith fame), he so impressed
them that a unique precedent was established
by allowing him to join the ordinary lieu-
tenants’ list of the R.N. with his merchant
service seniority and no restrictions. The
R.A.N. was formed when he was just at the
right age and seniority, and transferring to
it he has never looked back.
A WISTFUL THOUGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am a kindly sort of cove,
For other’s woe I’ve often wept;
To look on pain is pain to me :
And yet I’d rather like to see
The hell where editors are kept.
It would be sweet to watch the subs.
Employed in reading all the time
Verse they had fondly deemed so fair,
With alterations everywhere
Upsetting metre, spoiling rhyme.
I’d like to see them peppered thick
With black-hot commas unexpected;
I’d like to see them writhe with rage
At finding in the printed page
Their careful sentences “corrected.”
A little god turned into God —
Unwilling words by hyphens wedded—
Quote marks misplaced—a lopped-off limb —
Great Justice! May these butchers grim
Be some day inch by inch beheaded!
They might at least use sharper shears —
It is the blunt blade makes one bleed.
Proud subs., may I in sultrier clime
.See your chastisement fit your crime !....
It would be very sweet indeed.
victoria.
RIKKI T.


llama
■
t \ ■ ..,, . ..
' ‘ A
ST. KILDA ROAD, SOUTH MELBOURNE,
CONSTRUCTED FOR . . South Melbourne City Council.
ENGINEER A. E. Aughtie, Esq., M.lnst.C.E.
Reinforced Concrete Road with Wood Block Surface.
m
m
Road
successfully solve the road problem by providing the ideal reinforcement.
A Concrete Road reinforced with B.R.C. Fabric adds tensile strength to
withstand any weakness in the foundation and stresses due to impact.
B.R.C. Fabric has become an accepted and standard principle of construc-
tion, and is being used extensively and constantly by all road engineers
throughout the world.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty., Ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
'Phone: Cent. 8861. Works: Ballarat Road, Sunshine, Victoria.
frrrrrmrrrnTmr:
Krrrrrrrrrrrrnrrre
Sole Distributing Agents:
VICTORIA Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES . . J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair (Brisbane), Ltd.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide
WESTERN AUSTRALIA Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Company (Aust.), Ltd., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND ...... A. C. Gillies & Laird, Ltd., Wellington.
rrrrrrrrrrTrrmrrr.
nYfin’miTfran


W. W. GREENER
GUNS
ARE SURE KILLERS
Wholesaale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY, LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
Don't wish for the Best —get it.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S BITTER ALE.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
AN OLD “SPOT” MELLOWED BY AGE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney.
[l.
ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up Beautiful
lighting effects A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Cafe de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines).
(Also under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
In winning liis second Y.R.C. Newmarket
Handicap, Sol Green’s imported horse Gothic
put up a performance as brilliant as any in
the history of the race. Fie certainly carried
lib. less than Soultline did in 1909, and his
time, lmin. 13|sec., has often been beaten,
but he surmounted difficulties that would
have wrecked his chance had lie not been a
rare combination of speed and pluck. He
was literally bumped from pillar to post.
Of the 24 starters he was a firm favorite at
5 to 2 • the price would have been shorter
still but for the eleventh-hour commission
for Preposterer, who came from twelves to
fives. Sans Culotte (6 to 1), Biskra, Chry-
stal and Thracian Belle (12 to 1), Avant
Courier (15 to 1), Baringhup, Margaux and
Donace (20 to 1), Lady Thrill, Black Duch-
ess and Lady Yarborough (25 to 1) were
the others asked for.
Margaux and Chrystal were nasty at the
barrier, and Lady Thrill got the worst of
the start. Gothic, whose jockey had drawn
No. 24 marble, also lost a bit of ground when
the machine lifted, and was then crowded out
by horses coming across from the centre of
the course. Euston (33 to 1) was the early
leader, Chrystal, Margaux, Rou Miki,
Thracian Belle, Quintus and Switzerland
being nearest in attendance. With three
furlongs to go the favorite got another bump
and Chrystal, on the inside, seemed likely
to win; Margaux and Thracian Belle were
also prominent. In the last furlong Thracian
Belle passed the little grey mare from Sydney
and her name was loudly shouted, but Gothic,
finishing with an amazing burst of speed,
caught the South Australian mare a few
yards from the post, and won a wonderful
race by a head, with Chrystal a long neck
away and Margaux a head further back. Rou
Miki, Lady Yarborough, Black Duchess and
Preposterer followed them. It was a rough
race, and no jockey can take care of himself
(and his horse) better in such conditions than
•Timmy Pike, who deservedly came in for a
big share of the applause. In making the
run that carried him to victory the son of
Tracery cannoned against Biskra, who had
been interfered with previously. The South
Aus. horse is not so rugged as the importa-
tion, and he could not come on; in fact,
after the second slice of misfortune (it was
quite accidental) he nearly fell.
Trivalve, who was making his first appear-
ance since the Melbourne Cup, was so vastly
superior to his three opponents m the St.
Leger that the books demanded 7 to 1. laken
to the front by Lewis, the Derby and Cup
winner was never off the bit, and he won,
hard held, by 2 \ lengths from Chariot, lor-
dilla being five lengths further astern, and
Ninbela. who tired, a bad last, ihe time,
3min. 3sec., was in the circumstances very
good.’ It is to be hoped nothing will pre-
vent the meeting of Trivalve and Limerick in
those rich w.f.a. races at Randwick this
Easter.
Amounis, who had run two very indifferent
races at Caulfield, was an even-money favor-
ite for the Essendon Stakes, punters argu-
ing that even if he was not the Amounis of
last season, he would easily account for the
lot he had to meet. Duncan rushed Crom-
well (8 to 1) to the front, and Woorak’s
son was still in charge entering the straight,
but Amounis and Spearset (5 to 1) were
with him at the distance. Pearson’s horse,
got the better of the Spearhead gelding after
a short struggle, and beat him home by a
length, Imitator (5 to 1), who again finished
very fast, being half a length away, and
Cromwell a close fourth. Cairns rode Syd-
ney’s representative, who traversed the 10
NO NEED TO WORRY.
SKINNY: “Don't blubber, Puddin’—you kin get a new chassis fer fourpence.”
furlongs in 2min 7 [sec. After the race
Imitator was at a fearfully short price for
the Australian Cup.
“Will Mollison stay?” people were asking
after the Sires’ Produce Stakes. First choice
at 31 to 8 for that race—for some reason Mc-
Shortodds fielded strongly against him —the
unbeaten Seremond —Molly’s Robe gelding
made it a procession, passing the judge four
lengths clear of Stanza (25 to 1), who just
beat Stalden. Mollison was ridden, as usual,
by Daniels, and covered the seven furlongs
in lmin 26|sec. E. M. Pearce is to be
congratulated on getting such a dashing
youngster so cheap.
There were several Australian Cup fancies
among the starters for the Brunswick
Stakes, for which Valorem (5 to 2), one of
Kellow’s, was favorite. Spear Maiden (4 to
1) might have won if Wilson had not been
so eager ; she was cut down at the distance
by Mountain Prince (8 to 1), who was in
turn challenged by Medmenliam (6 to 1),
and pipped on the post, Spear Maiden being
third The winner, who had scored the pre-
vious' Saturday at Caulfield, is by Prince
Galahad —Meadow Grass.
* * * *
Horses with No. 1 on the saddlecloth won
five of the nine races at Canterbury Park
on Saturday, and in two other cases were
third. Indigo (4 to 1) began the good work
in the Jumpers’ Flat; then Beauhama,
backed from tens to fives, got up in time to
beat Hazel Boy (3 to 1) in the first division
of the Flying Handicap. The second divi-
sion was a soft thing for Greenie (evens),
and the divisions of the Tliree-year-old Han-
dicap were just as easy for Beckwith (6 to
4) and Maltfern (6 to 4), who had run
third to Beauliania and Hazel Boy. Reonui
(7 to 4), favorite for the Bankstown Handi-
cap, was another who never looked like
getting beaten after Tallyman had bounced
him out of the barrier, Boonala (15 to 1)
and Royal Sun (7 to 1) being of no use to
him in the run home. The customary
scramble for positions going out of the
straight led to the customary fall in this
race, but the jockey (Finch) escaped serious
hurt.
A very in-and-out lot contested the 11-fur-
longs handicap, and McShortodds scored —
lie generally does on distance races at the
Park. Drawbridge (7 to 2) was the elect
of backers, but lie finished last, with the
second favorite, Ilermealdo (6 to 1), .lust
in front of him; Obey (8 to 1), Attractive
(8 to 1) and Funny (10 to 1) were the first
three, with daylight between. Obey is highly
thought of at Newcastle* but her previous
form in Sydney had been bad. She is a four-
year-old daughter of Charlemagne 11, whose
offspring are more trustworthy, as a rule.
* * * #
For Hawkesbury next Saturday
Park Stakes : Alligator.
Clarendon Handicap: Beaucaire; next,
Tressilian.
Flying Handicap: Prairie Belle; next,
Greenwich.
Autumn Handicap: Lucy Thrice; next,
Woolita.
Highweight Handicap: Magdaff; next
Bacagi.
* * * *
“Carlyon”: Pistol, last of Carbine’s sons
in Australia, died the other day at Richmond
Park stud, South Aus., where he had been
lord of the seraglio since 1904. Then a five-
year-old, he was imported from England by
J. H. Aldridge. His dam. Wcnonah, was by
Galopin, sire of St. Simon, so he was rarely
bred on both sides. The proof of it came out
in the performances of Pistol’s progeny,
though he was never a “fashionable” sire,
and by no means had the pick of Aus-
tralia’s best mares. In all his stock won
just under £200,000, and have been notable
for hardiness, while they mostly matured
late. He sired the winners of close on a
thousand races, and many of his offspring,
including such topnotchers as Arquebuse,
Pistolier and Dundalk, showed a rare ability
to get over the sticks. He reached exaa
the same age as Carbine, 29 years; , d
Jack’s” end, however, was artihcally Has-
tened.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Johnnie Curley (9st. 2flb.) beat “Fight-
ing” Aides (Sst. 131 bi.), the remnant ot Art
McQueen’s draft from the Philippines, m
every round of the 15 fought at the Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night. The brown boy
lias one punch, a whizzing right, but it almost
invariably went around or over the bobbing
red head'of his opponent. Once only, in the
eleventh round, did the Englishman appeal
to have felt its effect. The blow landed
behind the ear, and for a few seconds Curley
was driven to smother. But he was soon
again the attacker, and a couple out ot the
bag threw Aides to the ropes, where he held
on for support, Johnnie being s l° w in
getting to him. Curley’s straight left drew
blood from the islander’s mouth quite early,
and he at times looked despondent; but 1 atsy
Burke and McQueen kept him up to the
collar. Fully half the time it was a case ot
Curley chasing and Aides retreating. In a
preliminary, Sid Sampson (9st. 2Jlb.)
soundly thrashed Bill Evans (9st. OJlb.), and
the gasp of surprise from' a fairly large
crowd when Wallis gave his verdict to the
“Taffy” could have been heard at Pinchgut.
j|; ❖ *
“Mitt Shover”: Tom Heeney, the despised
and rejected of Stadiums, Ltd., has added the
French-Canadian Jack “Delaney” to liis list
of victims in a fierce bout at New York,
and unless the promoter goes back on his
word the M.L. blacksmith will now meet
Tunney for the world’s championship.
Delaney, who started favorite, was 20
pounds lighter than the Maorilander, who
scaled list. 21b.. and was the cleverer boxer,
but Heeney took all the clouts the other
could send over and, boring in continually,
administered severe body punishment, vary-
ing his attack with right and left hooks to
the head. Many times he had Delaney hang-
ing on, but the man from Quebec was game,
lie made a vicious attempt to recover lost
ground in the 15th and last round, but
Heeney came back at him and had him on
the ropes when the final hell went. New
York lias taken Heeney to its heart, and
cheered him wildly in every round.
* * * *
“W.G.A.”: Heeney may have pulled his
punches in fights immediately following his
fatal encounter with Cyril Whitaker at
Auckland on June 4, 1923, but he certainly
did nothing of the sort when lib met Brian
McClcary at Christchurch. He tried his
utmost to end the contest at the earliest
possible moment, but for 11 rounds the elu-
sive McClcary made a monkey of him. The
impression formed from that bout was that
Heeney could hit a very solid blow when
close to his man, but that at arm’s length
it was a push rather than a blow. MeCleary
was a sick man and should never have been
in the ring. In the circumstances he put
up a wonderful fight, but the consequences
were serious for him.
Racquet and Bawl
Crawford’s defeat of Borotra, Brugnon’s
triumphs in singles and the fine play of the
South Australians Rowe and Gar Hone
were conspicuous features of the French-
men’s matches in Adelaide. Rowe beat Bous-
sus by two sets to one, Brugnon downed
Crawford in straight sets, and Borotra and
Brugnon made short work of Patterson and
liopman. Ilopman was also beaten by
Brugnon—there is an excuse for this lad, as,
never robust, he has been worn to a shadow
by over-playing, having lost l()lb. in a couple
of weeks. Crawford redeemed himself with
a splendid win over Borotra, scores being
6-3, 9-11, 6-2. In the second doubles Pat-
terson and Gar Hone won from Borotra and
Boussus by two sets to one. Hone’s hitting
was irresistible, and on the day he outshone
his partner.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: In spite of the liberal douches
of cold water applied by potentates of southern
tennis to the Queensland scheme for sending
Cummings and Moon to Wimbledon (why
not Amsterdam also?) the Northerners are
sticking to their guns, and the money is com-
ing in very satisfactorily. A Sydney authority
objects that the sending of the pair is “un-
necessary,” as the decision of J. B. Hawkes
to go to England at his own expense will
obviate the need for any further reinforce-
ments to the Davis Cup trio. The objection
is a feeble one. Provided they cost the L.T.A.
nothing, it doesn’t matter ,a cockroach’s
whisker if 50 independent players go to
Wimbledon. The bigger the Australian repre-
sentation at Wimbledon the better for Aus-
tralian tennis. The fact seems to be that
some of the objectors do not relish the
prospect of two such formidable players as
Cummings and Moon clashing with their
own selections. It would be dreadful if
“our boys” were to be beaten by outsidalis,
what?
(Continued on parje J/l.)
SLIPPED UP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The stewards inquired into the cause of High
Comedian’s refusal to chase the hare and decided
that his nomination would not be accepted at tppmg
in future.’’
’E wouldn’t chase the ’are, though ard an
’ot
After the blinkin’ thing the others shot;
Just sort of eyed it supercilious, like
’E ’ad the tired feelin’ or the spike.
I done me brass; the stewards rubbed lm
out;
Not much, you think, to make a song about.
Mebbe, but there you ’ave it fair and square:
’E wouldn’t chase the ’are.
’E dropped ’is bundle. Aw, make no mistake.
’Twasn’t because ’e knowed it wasn’t jake,
A bit o’ fur on wires, a snide pretence
That wouldn’t fool a dawg with sav. or sense,
A thing, ’owever fast ’e streaked an’ slid,
'E couldn’t catch, or slaughter if ’e did.
You needn’t think to find the reason there,
’E wouldn’t chase the ’are.
Doped, was ’e doped—or gorged—to crumple
up
Like some fat pig or pampered poodle pup i
’lgh comedy? My oath, I call it low:
One down for Stiffy and one up for Mo.
’E might ’ave ’ad a bullock’s paunch for
brek.
Or water by the bucket down ’is neck.
Fed up or full of it, ’e didn’t care:
’E wouldn’t chase the ’are.
You’ve seen a strong-arm’d jock ’oose mount
was dead
Tug ’ell-for-leatlier at the blighter’s ’ead?
You’ve ’card of sclileiiters to be kept in mind
Where whirlin’ trotters throw the laps
be’ind?
Aw, well—black sheep on evry course
there’s some
An’ goats are not the only quads, that um.
But this—oh, strike me pink, ’twas ’ard to
bear!
Til wouldn’t chase the ’are.
ẃ
IFORD.


Si
ri
I]
v
1
»TS*
'? *
z
fitting four
/
i®
lW
□
TYRES
D
u
■
z
r
ifft:
* 'S
You take a step which
transforms your “spare”
into a purely informal
insurance against the
remotest of remote
possibilities.
AR
i
'arnet Glass Tyres-for ike Motorist who dislikes "joshing up.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
sSsifei
BBSS
■»i ■ll esc rri
■aim
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station. •j’
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
M. AHERN.
w
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
'phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64*66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Racquet and Bawl
“S.T.”: O’Hara Wood and Rowe had
each “two legs in” for the Roberts Cup that
goes with S.A. tennis championship; but they
were put out in the semi-finals by Schlesinger
and Hone respectively, in each case after a
stern five-set match. In the filial, Hone was
—except for his service—utterly out of form
and Schlesinger won in three straight; after
which they went down as a pair in the same
summary way before Rowe and Wood. Miss
Le Messurier was again*too strong for either
local rivals or visitors present, and won
all three championships open to her: Shep-
herd and Miss Weston were her partners in
tho two doubles.
* * * *
“S.T.”: S.A. Lawn Tennis Association has
worked off a big liability in debentures by
inducing most of the holders to accept
reserved seats instead. A new stand has been
built at the end of the centre tournament
court, and every £25 debenture surrendered
gives the right to a particular seat (also
admission to the clubhouse) “until 1940, and
any extension of lease up to 19(51.” The
S.A.L.T.A. holds its slice of the Adelaide
paiklands on lease from the City Corpora-
tion, and feels confident of getting a renewal
when its present term expires. It thus claims
that the numbered medals it is now issuing
should be valuable assets, and far better
than a mere life membership.
* * * *
“Dotty Dongem” : The Australian women’s
tennis team which goes abroad next week
will have to earn its nose powder if its pub-
lished programme is adhered to. In South
Africa the girls are to play at Maritz-
burg, Port Elizabeth, East London, Bloem-
fontein, Pretoria, Johannesburg, Kimberley
and Capetown, a tour that will entail some
2000 miles of train travelling, to say no-
thing of minor jaunts. Due in London on
May 11, they are to go to Paris for the
French hard-court championships beginning
on May 22. Then back to a match against
an English team on June 8 and 9, followed
by three successive tournaments ending on
July 7, the last day of the Wimbledon meet-
ing. Then come the Irish championships at
Dublin, and a tourney at Newcastle, followed
by a tour of France, Belgium, Holland, Ger-
many and Switzerland, Iceland having appa-
rently been overlooked. The grand finale
will be tournaments at Scarborough and
Eastbourne. By that time the ladies should
be glad to call it a day and break for the
boat that leaves for home about the end of
September.
The Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: Some of the Australians
are making heaps of runs in Maoriland.
Ponsford got three centuries in six shots,
with a highest score of 148 and an average
of 98.80. Woodfull, Jackson, Kippax,
Schneider, Oldfield and Oxenham have also
reached three figures. Among the bowlers,
Grimmett has taken 23 wickets at 9.91. He
may emulate Hornibrook’s deeds in .1921,
when the lefthander took 80-odd wickets for
an average of something over 8 runs each.
“S.T.”: Club cricket in Adelaide works up
excitingly to a finish. On the day that
decided “the four” for the semi-finals, East
Wrrens (second) went down badly before
University (unplaced) ; North Adelaide put
on 63 in 17 minutes, won, and thought it
was in “the four”; Sturt beat Colts thre*
minutes from time and got in instead; Adel-
aide (unplaced) overcame Glenelg by 3 runs ;
and Port Adelaide (first) defeated Kensing-
ton (third) in the last over of the day. Tf
all cricket were like that there would be
bigger crowds. The four are Port (Harris,
Pritchard, Williams), East Torrens (with
Schneider away), Kensington (Stirling. Ry-
mill, Bowley, L. V. Pellew), and Sturt
(evithout Vic. Richardson). A remarkable
proportion of the State’s best cricketers are
in the teams that finished nowhere.
* * * x
“Kedron”: In saying that Oxenham and
Hornibrook are the only two Queensland-
born cricketers to find their way into an
official Australian XI “Old Q.” (B.
22/2/’2B) forgot the late Jack McLaren.
McLaren bowled his fast stuff in a Test
match in Australia and was a member of
the team that toured England when Noble,
Trumper, Cotter, Ransford, Armstrong and
Hill fought their unsuccessful fight with
the Board of Control. I remember seeing
K. L. Hutchings (killed in the Great War,
as Cotter was) hit McLaren for two sixers
in one over on the Woolloongabba ground.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: Yorkshire cricket seems to
have fallen again on the evil days from which
Lord Hawke rescued it 30 years or so ago.
The trouble is the same now as then: discord
among the strong professional clement
which always bulks so big in the famous
county team. In his speech on his 31st
election as president Lord Hawke announced
that discipline was going to bn tightened up,
and a side got together which would find
something better to do on the cricket field
than trying to “crab” the performances ot
one another. It reads more like the feuds
of an opera company than the disagreements
of a lot of hard-headed Tykes. t
“Dor Jong”: The outstanding feature of
the English cricket team’s tour of South
Africa has been the success of Bissett’s
fast-medium bowling. Bissett was pro-
claimed a coming champion some years back,
but failed to make good. He went to Eng-
land, and while there was taken in hand
by E. A. McDonald. On his return to
South Africa he soon showed the benefit of
the Australian’s teaching. His 7 for 29 in
England’s second innings in the last Test
must be a record for a match of this de-
scription.
Footbrawl
“Flagwagger”: Tom Fitzmaurice, who
transferred from Essendon (Vic.) to Gee-
long a few seasons back, is to coach Geelong
in an honorary capacity. This may mean
the beginning of the end for £9- or £lO-a-
-week coaches, and I, for one, won’t be sorry
if they go. There ’has certainly been no
all-round improvement in the quality of play
since the craze arrived. Last season we saw
very little of the open, systematic football
of bygone years. The method of most
coached teams was to make direct for the
posts, using their weight, fairly or otherwise,
on all opponents who blocked the way.
* * * *
“Wang”: Hitherto Carlton (B. 15/2/’2B)
and other Melbourne football clubs have
raked the country districts for players like
Clover, Duncan and Beasy, but the policy
has been abandoned for the time being as
far as Carlton is concerned. The state of
the labor market is the cause. Metropolitan
football clubs, to coax a chap from the
country, have to provide him with a job in
the city, it being too great a drag on the
finances to pay him a weekly screw of £8
or £lO. with the chance of liis going off
through living a life of idleness. Jobs are
now difficult to find, so Carlton announces
that it will get what new men it needs from
the ranks of the juniors.
* * * *
“Roma”: F. C. Tinbury, who has been
much in the limelight recently in connection
with the Roma (Q.) oilfield, is .one of the
few Queenslanders who have achieved the
double of State representation in cricket and
football. A thundering big chap—lie is
about 7ft. high—he used to bump down the
fast ones in great style; if liis lines had
been cast in N.S.W. or Victoria lie might
have copped an Australian XI cap. In the
Rugby game—Union of course —he was a
forward to be avoided by “gallery” backs.
Beside doing great things for his native
State, he helped Australia against Maori-
land in 1910.
WELL AHEAD OF IT.
“D’ you get much pleasure out of your
week-end place?”
“My oath! I let it and stay home.”
“Past Grammar”: The Waratahs are due
to leave Canada to-day, and should reach
Sydney on March 31. The reception arranged
for them will include a Rugby Union wel-
come on the day of arrival, a civic affair
on the following Monday, a public greeting
at the Town Hall in the evening, and a
N.S.W.R.U. dinner on the Wednesday. On
April 28 the famous team will be seen in
action against the Rest of N.S.W., the match
marking the opening of the Rugby Union
season. Of the 31 games played in Europe
the Waratahs won 24, including three of
the five internationals, lost five and drew
two. Points scored were 432 to 207. Tom
Lawton was the highest scorer with 125
points, made up of 2 tries and 47 goals.
Eric Ford was the most successful try-
getter, crossing the line 17 times, though
Towers was not far behind with 15 touch-
downs.
* * * *
“Everton”: The split between the two
N.S.W. Soccer factions continues' to widen,
and the coming season will see two separate
first-grade competitions running, one spon-
sored by the Association and the other by the
breakaway League. The League’s fixtures
will open on April 14; in the meantime it
will stage a match between northern League
teams and those of the southern division at
Gladesville on March 21. The Association,
or the metropolitan section of it, will run
district teams in opposition to the League
in the latter’s strongholds, notably in Gran-
ville. It has the advantage, so far, that it
alone is able to stage inter-State and infer-
“BEAUTY IS TRUTH, TRUTH BEAUTY."
SECOND: “’Ow d’jer feel?”
PUG: “Loverly! ’Ow do I look?”
SECOND: “W’y, y’re lookin’ beyootiful!”
Dominion matches. League emissaries, how-
ever, are hard at work in Queensland and
Victoria.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey”: When Rufus Stewart left
Adelaide for Britain and the open golf
championship last week, he was given a
special farewell by his club, Kooyonga. lhe
money subscribed to date for the expenses
of his tour amounts to £666, made up ot
£452 from the members of the Kooyonga
club, £4O from South Australian country
clubs and £54 from other States. Glenelg
has £3O in hand, to be increased to £oU by
the time the list closes, while the Royal
Adelaide has £9O, which is expected to swell
to £lOO. The contribution of Kooyonga, the
club which employs Stewart, is in striking
contrast to the total received from all the
other States.
* * * *
“Sturt”: The departure of Rufus Stew-
art to take part in the British open cham-
pionship has necessitated the engagement by
Kooyonga (S.A.) of another professional
to take his place. This is W. Gosden, a
young Englishman who has been in Sydney
for some time in connection with Golf Bup-
plies, Ltd. Gosden learned his golf at the Sun-
ningdale course in England, where he was
a pupil of Jack White, a famous club-
maker as well as golfer, to whom lie later
acted as assistant. Gosden took over
his duties just prior to Stewart’s depar-
ture for England, and has already made
himself popular at the Adelaide club. Stew-
art is under contract to return to Aus-
tralia to take part in the Australian cham-
pionships in Sydney next September
* * * *
“Admiral Blowmetiglit”: Permit me to re-
gister my complete agreement with your cor-
respondent of the Junior Service, “Colonel
Damurize,” in his objection to the presence of
members of what is sardonically styled the
weaker sex on golf links, or anywhere in the
vicinity of them. Associate-members are mad-
dening enough, but the irresponsible female of
the species who habitually intrudes herself on
the fairways is the limit. Only recently I
laid a lovely approach to the pin, when a
small tripehound accompanying one of these
trespassers seized the ball and began run-
ning about with it. As I rushed up—bel-
lowing, I am afraid —she turned to the beast
with an ingratiating smile. “Put urns down,
then, mumma’s popsy,” site gurgled. “Look
at the nice old gemmums come to hit it for
you again, angel.” Ah, yah!
“Fore” : The annual tourney for the A.I.F.
Cup. played at Manly (N.S.W.) links, drew
a great entry of Diggers and occupied the
usual period from daylight to dark in the
playing. S. C. McNulty, a member of the
Bonnie Doon Club, returned a gross card of
88, and, as his handicap was 18, won with a
70 net score. His clubmate, E. L. Fitzgerald,
won the scratch honors with 77, taking 38
out and 39 in—a nice exhibition of consis-
tency. The Cup holder, F'. E. Jones, was
well back on the finishing list, while the fall-
ing darkness cut out the last half-dozen
pairs. Play was congested, as might have
been expected, and the average time for the
full round was about three and a half hours.
In all. 350 competitors started. It is about
time the organisers considered the question
of qualifying rounds and a play-off among
the leaders for this big and popular tourney.
Under present conditions players are handi-
capped in more ways than one, and the
late starters generally have Buckley’s chance
of finishing.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: News of another mag-
nificent fluke hole comes from Canberra golf
links, where the
elect of Australia
are wont to disport
themselves. A Mel-
bourne visitor was
playing a local
crack, by name
Midenliall, and the
latter reached the
green at a short
hole with his tee
shot, leaving a
fairly easy putt for
a two. The visitor
pulled his tee shot
into timber and
rough, and lay in
what looked a hope-
less position. lie
swiped blindly with
a mashie niblick in
his despair, and
the ball, flying
straight for the
green, hit the flag,
which was still in
the hole. The im-
pact caused the flag
to wrap itself
round the ball and
arrest the flight
thereof; then it
gently loosened out
and dropped the
ball in the tin. The
local man halved the hole with his second,
hut he must have thought a lot. In the
circumstances it seems tough luck that Can-
berra is prohibition territory.
Of * :|t *
“Southport” : Nothing is more interesting
in modern golf in England than the develop-
ment of what is known as “artisan golf.”
Private clubs close to large industrial centres
now encourage clubs formed of local citizens,
mostly workers in the big factories and simi-
lar institutions, to play on their links with-
out fee within certain fixed hours of the day.
The idea was started by J. H. Taylor, him-
self an “artisan” player in the long ago. The
scheme has worked excellently, regular mem-
bers and the “artisan” ditto combining well,
and each lot sticking to its allotted hours
without friction. It is said that more than
half the clubs in England now practise this
dual method, and it has been found that the
local standard of play has benefited con-
siderably by it.
* * * *
“Liver”: Those Californian Presbyterians
who evolved the brilliant idea of holding
early-morning services for Sunday golfers in
a church near the course (B. 8/12/’27) are
running a bit late. For many years an
early service for golfers has been held in
Wallasey parish church, near Liverpool
(Eng.), the church standing close to the
local links. A panel in one of the stained-
glass windows depicts a golfer in full fight-
ing-lci t with his bags of clubs slung over his
shoulder.
'•* "i" '!* <!>
“Hoylake”: It seems certain that Bobby
Jones will be seen in action again in the
British championships this coming season,
now that he has completed his law course
and is entitled to appear in the courts. His
refusal of the £lO,OOO cheque presented by
his American admirers has put the seal on
his amateur status, which has been ques-
tioned of late, and everyone expects to see
him turn out at Sandwich in May. Mean-
while the question has arisen as to what to
do with the collected £lO,OOO. It cannot be
given back to the donors, who are many,
and scattered, and there is no fund into
which it can be paid. A suggestion has
been made that the fund be pigeonholed until
Bobby’s golf days are over and then presented
to the hero.. To accept such a way out of the
difficulty would be tantamount to being an
accessory before the fact, and Jones has had
to decline. Perhaps the best method of util-
ising the money would be to found a big
international golf tourney on the lines of the
Davis Cup. Something of the sort is needed,
for golf tends to become more and more
insular in the different countries of its adop-
tion, and sadly needs to take on a more inter-
national aspect.
(Continued on page 42.)


tIQDEUR
USS&t
i
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean , Soft and Mellow
Shipped by
WM. GRANT & SONS. LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm o] Scotch Whisky Distillers.
Capital Paid-up, £l/22,100.
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH, SYDNEY.
Easter in Sydney
Easter Show and Autumn Races—and “The
Australia’’ the heart of the fun. . . .but it is
necessary for our regular patrons to com-
municate with us at once and to confirm
their reservations —otherwise they may be
disappointed.
Telegraphic Address:
“Austraotel, Sydney.’
Car and Cycle
“The Juice” There is a lot of interest for
motorists iu Bert Hinkler's announcement
of his fuel and lubricating bill for the
flight from England. The total outlay was
£55, petrol taking £45 ; the engine averaged
25 miles to the gallon. There are a good
many cars winning reliability and fuel tests
in this country whose owners would be well
satisfied with a steady mileage of that size,
even over short distances.
sfc * * *
“Disc Clutch”: Another addition to the
useful order of motor-car tests has been
made in Tasmania by an Overland Whippet.
The run was continuous for 23 days, and at
the finish the car and all parts and equip-
ment were in perfect running order. The
method of testing was to run the car for
12 hours each day over all descriptions of
roads, and to keep the engine running for
the remaining 32 under the eye of official
observers. It is calculated that the engine
made 4,000,000 revolutions in the course of
the trial.
* * * *
“Whizz”: Those Australian motor-cycle-
racing entrepreneurs (B. 29/2/’2B) are not-
having it all their own way in England. A
syndicate headed by A. J. Hunting, also an
Australian, has hopped enthusiastically into
the dirt-track game, and the rival shows are
competing for the best available arenas in
and around London. The Auto-cycle Union
has provided McKay, the originator of the
game, with two permits, while Hunting is
said to have secured Chelsea Soccer Club’s
ground, one of the most central and best-
equipped in the London area. The game
is catching on like wildfire, and may sup-
plant the tin hare. The syndicates are
already talking of opening tracks in France
and Germany, and importing a group of Aus-
tralian specialists in dirt-track riding. Those
mentioned as likely to go over are Dick
Smytho, Archie Pritchard, Cecil Brown,
Frank Pearce, Billy Lamont, and Vie Hux-
ley of Queensland, where they do know some-
thing about bumping a dirt track.
* * * ♦
“Whoosh”: Brisbane, which loves motor-
cycle racing on its dirt tracks as dearly
as the Romans loved the gladiatorial combats
at the Coliseum, and for much the same
reason, is back at the old game again, the
w r et weather having held up the incipient
manslaughter for some weeks. The hero
on the reopening night was Frank Pearce,
who won all the six events in which he
started, including the Silver Sash, a fleeting
glory which has to be battled for every
Saturday night. Casualties were uninterest-
ing. with one exception. A gentleman, de-
scribed as “a very unlucky rider,” who was
reappearing after some weeks’ retirement
nursing a broken collarbone, “appeared to
hit a nasty bump.” He “buckled up” on his
machine, and though he was “an inert mass
on it,” steered the jigger off the track and
“allowed it to fall over with him.” When
he was examined it was found that he had
broken one of his legs.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: The unlucky number scored
another bull’s-eye in the Ballarat Harley-
Davidson club reliability trial. Alex. Craig
ran into a culvert and broke a bone in an
ankle and thumb. He carried on until his
petrol ran out through a leak. He had had
a feeling something would go wrong when he
saw his number was 13.
* * * *
“Puck” : Two British motor-cyclists, B. H.
Catheric-k and ,T. I*. Castley, have just com-
pleted a world tour on B.S.A. machines.
Their main objective was the encirclement of
the globe, and this they accomplished when
they crossed the Greenwich meridian near
Capetown, having taken 17 months on the
trip. Machines and men were fit in all par-
ticulars, though the route has lain through
some of the wildest and most difficult coun-
try in the world.
Miscellaneous
“Billy the Goose”-: I see by the Sydney
roadscrapers that a lotter blokes down that
way ’as got the spike becos the Fed’rul ’eads
at Canb’rer ’asn’t done nothin’ about fixin’
up a knight’ood fer me feller-Queenslander
Bert ’lnkier. I doubt if it’d be a fittin’
rekernishun uv a bloke like ’lnkier ter make
’im an K.B.E. It’d be orl right fer blokes
in the game like meself, an’ some uv the
.other ’cads wot’s copped it already, but wot’s
’lnkier done that they sh’d wanter paste
that plaster on ’im? They tell me ’e never
rigged a joke at the ponies or the dorgs, or
even the goats, in ’ees nacheral. Besides,
Vs copped suffishent distinesliun already f’r
such a quiet cove. Down in Manly, w’ere
the sheiks lives, they’ve begun ter take an
interest in anuther sort o’ goat, an’ ’as
started racin’ ’em at local meetin’s. Last
week a girlie there runs a black goat she
calls ‘Bert ’lnkier’ in three excitin’ flutters,
an’ scores a win firs’ pop, follerin’ up with
two seconds. That’s reel fame. I’d be
prouder uv ’avin’ a goat called after me than
I would o’ being parked in the same paddock
with some o’ the blokes I knows wot as the
right ter stick a ‘Sir’ in front o’ their
monnikers. Kidney Pie!
* * * *
“Spike”: Having lingered until a month
or two before the beginning of the Games,
the Australian Olympic authorities are now
issuing a belated appeal for the funds neces-
sary to finance the team, which should
already be on the water. The sum required
is £lO,OOO, and £BOOO of this will have to
be raised from the public within the next
month or so. The team is to leave early in
May, which will give it mighty little chance
of settling down, and all patriotic citizens
are now being adjured to put their hands in
their pockets and produce something for the
Olympic Federation. If the something were
accompanied by half a brick, it would be no
more than that casual body deserves.
* * * *
“Spare Postle”: 11. L. Abrahams, who
won the 100 metres at the Paris Olympiad,
has been giving some sound advice to Jim
Carlton, who will represent Australia in the
fast stuff at Amsterdam. The English flier
says bluntly that for Carlton to attempt
the 100 metres and the 200 metres is sheer
folly, since that would mean running on five
days in succession. Carlton should select
one of the two distances and concentrate
on that. Abrahams also recommends Carl-
tan to reach England in time to take part
in the championships at Stamford Bridge
on July 7, and volunteers to give the N.S.W.
crack the benefit of his advice and experi-
ence. If Carlton is wise he will concentrate
as Abrahams suggests. If it comes to choos-
ing the particular distance, he should select
the 200 metres, for he has proved himself
a better runner over that distance than over
the 100, though his admirers will count it
heresy to say so.
$ $ $ $
“Splash”: The flapper-worshipping press
of Sydney threw up its collective hat with
an ecstatic howl when Bonnie Mealing won
the 100yds. backstroke championship of
N.S.W. at Coogee Aquarium baths in
75 3-ssec. This is claimed to be a world’s
record, though as Sybil Bauer swam the
same distance in 72 4-ssec. at Chicago in
1924 the claim seems a shaky one. More-
over. Ena Stockley, who was leading Miss
Mealing in Melbourne when the latter left
the course, was a non-starter. Still, it was
a fine performance, which knocked nearly
five seconds off the previous Australian
record. Whether it entitles the child to a
trip to Amsterdam, as her frenzied admirers
claim, is another matter.
GUSTAV FROELICH, the German
swimmer, who holds over 20 European
backstroke records, and has been giving
some good exhibitions during his pre-
sent tour of Australia.
“Sturt”: A good swimmer lost to
amateurism is H. Taylor, the Westralian
all-rounder, who won the 100 yards profes-
sional championship of Australia in Adel-
aide the other day in 66sec. The time is
not brilliant, but as there was half a lap
between first and second there was no reason
for the winner to extend himself. Though
still only 20, Taylor represented his State
in the Australian amateur championships
as long ago as 1923, when he got one second
and two third places; he defeated “Brasher”
Jones in the preliminary trials for State
representation. He appeared for the State
again in Brisbane in 1925, and also in
Sydney, winning several handicap events
and scoring three seconds and a third in the
championships. Last season he joined the
professionals, and won the 100 and 1000
yards titles ; he had previously annexed the
220yds. and 440yds. State amateur ehamp-
pionships in South Aus., where he is now
living. He is at his best over the longer dis-
tances, but is a useful sort even in the
sprints.
“Slide”: A couple of Australian oarsmen
now at Oxford have achieved fame—for the
time being, at least —in those curious rowing
races known as the Torpids. Owing to the
narrowness of the water at Oxford and
Cambridge, the boats start at a definite
distance, one behind the other, in the order
of their performances the year previously.
The objective is to overtake and “bump” the
boat in front, while keeping ahead of the
boat behind so as to avoid being bumped.
The bumper and the bumped change places
on the following night. Among those who
rose rapidly this year at Oxford were
the Lincoln College crew, which scored four
bumps in five nights, and thereby earned
the honor and glory of the historic “Bump
JIMMY PIKE, the Ma State’s finest jockey,
who rode Gothic in the V.A.T.C.
Futurity Stakes.
Supper.” The Lincoln stroke was Noel Bay-
liss, the Victorian Rhodes scholar, and K. R.
Allen, the Westralian ditto, rowed No. 5.
* * * *
“Blade”: When the Mosman club’s rowers
went on strike and declared the N.SAV.
selectors “black” unless the latter picked the
entire Mosman crew as State representatives,
the selectors retaliated by ignoring the half-
dozen cracks who had engineered the protest.
They chose a crew from the various Sydney
clubs, including a couple of Mosman men
who had not been prominent in the demand
for the club’s selection. Both of these have
since notified the selectors that they will
not be “available.” They have been replaced
by W. Livingstone (Drummoyne) and A.
Casliman (Sydney). So the State cham-
pions and winners of the Henley-on-Yarra
Challenge eights will be without a repre-
sentative in the boat.
* * * *
“Backwoodsman” : Still keen on establish-
ing a standard bowl, the Australian Bowling
Council has arranged with the Vic. B.A. to
instruct all scorers in pennant games to
watch the quality of bowl used by individual
players and note it on the scoring cards. The
same idea will be followed in the other
States. The variability of the wooden bowl
is probably the reason prompting the investi-
gation. Weather conditions affect the play-
ing properties of a wooden bowl to a con-
siderable extent. It is claimed that the lead-
ing makes of composition bowl are exempt
from any handicap of the sort, though
diehards who look on the user of the composi-
tion article as a saucy upstart deny this.
The compo. bowls, too, can be rigidly stand-
ardised, and will, it is asserted, maintain
the standard. That is not so easy with the
wooden ones, which are apt to suffer a
change with wet and with exceptional heat.
Perhaps the council will recommend the
universal adoption of compos., even at the
risk of losing many ancient and revered
practitioners of the art from apoplexy. The
step has been taken in other games. Such
bodies as the Lawn Tennis Association and
some of the big cricket organisations have
commanded the use of a selected type of
ball for all official matches under their juris-
diction.
* * * #
“Garbut”: Having had the misfortune to
live next door to a Queensland enclosure
dedicated to the dual purposes of pigeon-
shooting by a crowd of self-called “sports”
and pigeon-plucking by their old friend Mc-
Sliortodds, I associate myself with “Choke-
bore” in his protest (B. 15/2/’2B). In my
neighborhood after one of these brutal bat-
tues it is no uncommon thing to see birds
with both legs broken vainly trying to alight
on the ridgepoles of adjacent houses. I have
found them with putrefied wounds unable to
fly or stand, but still living. Boys of 10
or 12 years are used to retrieve these victims
of man’s barbarity. Two young hopefuls,
after a hard day catching and wringing the
necks of winged and otherwise wounded
pigeons, informed me that they were both
members of the Birdlovers’ League.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“C.Q.” : Following on the successful pene-
tration of the centre of the continent last
year, Clapp is sending a Reso tour of Vic-
torians to discover Queensland. The famous
yellow train cannot, of course, accompany
the expedition further than the N. S. Wales
border, owing to the idiotic break-of-gauge,
but the railways of the two northern States
will co-operate to show the GO business men
all the best beauties and primary industries
of. their parts. The inclusive price for the
27 days will be £BO.
* * * *
“W.J.T.” ; Sent 132 bushel cases of choice
apples to a reputable Sydney agent. The
consignment sold for £22-odd; expenses were
close on £lO. I collected £32, a shade over
2s. Id. per case! Some writer said that the
only man who could logically defend a “back
to the soil” movement as a cure for all ills
is the village gravedigger. I’m inclined to
agree with him!
* * 5jC *
“Esters” : The Australian wine trade with
Britain continues to justify the bounty on
export granted by the Federal Government.
The Wine Trade Review in a recent issue
points out that those who consider Australia
produces wines of only moderate quality
would be quickly undeceived by some of the
wines now being imported, especially the
matured red port types. The task before
Australian wine exporters now is' to main-
tain the fine even quality of recent ship-
ments.
* * * *
The Made-in-Australia Council of Mel-
bourne is doing good work for Australian
industry by holding lectures at meetings of
operatives at the various factories in the
metropolis. V. Ginn told one meeting that
in 1848 there were 497 factories in Aus-
tralia employing under 2000 people. In
1928 there were 21.000 factories and work-
shops employing directly 451,000 people.
Eighty years ago the chief industries were
flour-mills, breweries and distilleries, fell-
mongeries and soap and candle factories.
* s|: # Jfe
“A. Jack” : Drought, no matter how severe,
has no terrors for the 500 residents of Wky-
alla (South Aus.), as they have a whole
ocean to draw upon. Working for four days
a week a Mirrlees-Watson evaporator, the
largest of its kind in the world, supplies the
B. H. Prop.’s iron-ore works and the town
with 280,000 gallons of water purer than that
drawn from any reservoir; the other two
days are spent in cleaning the multitudinous
pipes through which the water travels before
it is cleared of spit. The water contains
Boz. of solids to the gallon when it is pumped
from the sea, and the discharged brine has
about 20oz. So far no use has been found
for the brine.
* * * *
Ida Dawson (Java) : Several prominent
Dutchmen assure me that Australia should
be doing a much bigger trade with this
country than she is doing. Butter, jams,
dried and tinned fruits and vegetables (espe-
cially) should be arriving in much larger
quantities. Such fruits as apples, pears and
grapes, which carry well, are simply rushed;
and I have noticed that a Dutch hostess is
invariably a proud woman when she can
offer her guests “beautiful Australian
apples.”
* ijs * ❖
“P.X.” : Even little Norfolk Island is hav-
ing its land boom; £35 per acre has just
been paid for land there —for banana-grow-
ing, it is understood. People interested in
the vegetable sausage have been giving the
island a lot of attention lately.
* * * *
“Clerk”: The largest locomotive ever built
in Australia is out on the Victorian roads.
It is of the Pacific type, was built at New-
port and weighs 386 tons. It is expected to
reduce the time of the Sydney express
between Melbourne and Albury by one hour.
* * * *
The Broken Hill branch of the Country
Traders’ Association has written to the
general secretary suggesting that Scorfield’s
Bulletin cartoon, modernising Old Mother
Hubbard (B. 22/2/’2B), should be used to
the utmost for propaganda purposes. “The
members of the executive of this branch,”
the secretary writes, “desire me to express
their admiration of the sketch, and request
you to publish their expression of apprecio
tion, along with their hope that it will
arouse traders throughout the country to
more vigorous action in their own interests.”
❖ ❖ ❖ *
“C.” : One Sydney woman at least makes
more than a crust out of her matrimonial
agency (B. 8/2/’2B). For a small yearly
fee you join up and your way is opened to
a wide choice of unfortunates (?) of the
other sex who have not been able to find
mates. The majority of the members, tlu
president assures me, are serious in their
quest, there being only a sprinkling of triflers.
For every match that comes off, a guinea is
exacted as commission.


(every roller revolves)
fitted in conjunction with
the® Hubs
makes cycling more and more
delightful.
B. W. Chains and Hubs are supported
by many years manufacturing experi-
ence. They at? essentially the pro-
ducts of a specialised organisation,
and their perfect accuracy in design
and wonderful wearing qualities
insure a service without compare,and
a smooth and silky running which
no other combination can excel.
You should specify them on your
new mount and if any difficulty in
supply write our
factory Representative
JOHN ARNOLD,
Degraves Street,
Melbourne, Vic.
G.P.O. Box 71-.
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital £lOO,OOO Directors:
Issued Capital 4QIGI John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
771 W - G ' Wo °dger, Esq. ; S. J. Goulston, Esq.;
Paid-up Capital . . 30,234 R. G. H. Joseland, Esq. 4 ’
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax,
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application
h. G. FUSSELL, General Manager.
p
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY. England
ŵ
Representatives:
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
No. 1369.
PAINT YOUR OWN CAR
MOTOR
PAINT
FORTY YEARS
of scientific develop-
ment in the factorj—
-40 years of honest and
skilful merchandising,
have established the
fame of Ripolin
throughout the civilised
world. The extreme
durability of Ripolin
and its ability to stand
continuous wash-
ing make it a wonder-
ful Enamel to use on
Motor-cars. Apply with
a brush—give a full
flowing coat.
THE FINISH THAT STANDS DRY CLEANING.
Ripolin Does Not Require Polishing.
The Colors Are Permanent and Will Not Rub Off.
Ripolin is also largely used for boats, golf balls, all interior and
exterior house painting, hospitals, etc. A special quality is pro-
curable for painting baths.
WHITE AND 65 ARTISTIC SHADES PROCURABLE FROM ALL
LEADING PAINT STORES, IN SEALED TINS.
RIPOLIN CAN BE APPLIED THROUGH A SPRAY, IF DESIRED
Write or
L. A. CORMACK
telephone for Color Card, Booklet, etc., to
(Factory Rep.), 4 Underwood Street
(off 35 Pitt Street), SYDNFY.
Telephone, 83284.
BRISBANE: S. J.
ADELAIDE: Clarkson, Ltd.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
Squires & Co. MELBOURNE: Standard Agencies Ptv., Ltd.
HOBART: W. D. McMinn Co. Pty., Ltd. LAUNCESTON: French
Bros.
a
ar ,
i
1
Wins Every Time.
Unchallenged Success for 9-year-old.
Winning every , year for nine
years is the wonderful record en-
joyed by one prominent com-
petitor at Sydney’s racecourses.
It is seen by thousands of people
regularly every Wednesday and
Saturday parading first in the
paddock, on the green flower-
edged lawns, then in the Leger,
over the dusty, worn tracks from
the Stand to the Betting Ring,
but always in the same smart
style, commanding the attention
and admiration of the eager
crowds. To see this week after
week is only to marvel still more
at the phenomenal success it
enjoys.
So faithfully does it serve its
supporters that even the book-
makers speak of it in glowing
terms. Actually, the name —
“Fancy Plaids”—is scarcely ever
mentioned on the racecourse dur-
ing the excitement of the race.
But it is known and respected by
every living soul in Australia,
and thousands of men are to-day
reaping the benefit of their abid-
ing faith in the wearing quality
and smartness of these splendid
socks.
Watch next time you go to the
races, and look for the number of
wise punters who win every time
in their judgment of good socks.
It is Bond’s Fancy Plaids you see
when you catch a glimpse of the
winning owner’s socks as he
strains to see his horse pass the
post.
Your Mercer will show you
these “Sporty” Socks at 4/6 and
4/1 1 everywhere.
Heat/
Conquer its nerve-weakening
influence — with Sanatogen .
Counteract the strength'
sapping influence of heat on
body and nerves, by building up
new strength—with Sanatogen.
Sanatogen contains exactly those
elements—phosphorus and albumin
—which create lasting power of re'
sistance in blood, muscles and nerves.
Start taking it to-day,
“The debilitated
nerves and tissues
take up Sanatogen
as the parched
earth drinks up
water,”
writes Dr. Cl. L.
Wheeler.
sanatocen
The True Tonic-Food
At all Chemists —from 3/9 per tin.
GENATOSAN
LTD.
LOUGHBOROUGH,
ENGLAND.
(\X


Under
Royal
Warrant
w
ToH.NL
Kin<>
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
MXUB
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
Champagne
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Cable Address —
‘'Mum,” Sydney.
HdlfeL
Wire accommodation.
EXCLUSIVE - - QUIET
and with reasonable rates.
TARIFF:
Inclusive Board from. . 27/6
With bath from 307-
Rooms with Breakfast from 20/
CUISINE, COMFORT AND
SERVICE UNPARALLELED.
Hot and Cold Running Water
and Telephones in every room.
Private Suites de Luxe.
Sydney’s Most Spacious Lounge.
Attached is the Famous Wentworth Cafe: Dancing Afternoon and Night.
ADDRESS: LANG STREET, SYDNEY.
7hp cen/pp o/' Queens/o/pc/s.
cf/Sht ipufshoc/ Soc/o/ Life.
cituone
mm
=> BRISBANE
Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Liner
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
Ruby Rich, looking as attractive as a
movie star in mist-grey georgettes topped by
the close-fitting turban she adopts as per-
sistently as the Duchess of York wears her
small lid with its left-side flying-buttress,
was farewelled by, among others, the Racial
Hygienists. Ruby has been the president
since the birth of this body about 18 months
ago, but with her resolve to free-foot over
Europe came her resignation. Last week's
party at the Australia farewelled Miss Rich
and welcomed the new presidents, Mrs.
McLennan and Mr. W. Stead. Minister for
Health Arthur, Director-General of Public
Health Dick and City Health Officer Purdy
all took an hour off from their duties to add
a garland of fair speeches to the roses that
were piled at Miss Rich's feet. Mrs. Goodi-
son, the society's secretary, added a foun-
tain-pen and a beautifully-tooled book of
autographs, and there was tea and music
supplied by the Kretschmann Club. And,
incidentally, a photograph of that beloved old
Master with an illuminated copy of Le Gay
Krereton’s poem in his praise are among the
traveller’s prized gifts. They came, of course,
from the members of the Kretschmann Club.
Nor must the Feminists’ send-off to Miss
Rich be omitted from this tablet. To the
King-street headquarters, even as an army
with flying banners, came the Women of
Movements and Causes laden with every
flower that blooms in late summer and early
autumn. By the time these were piled
around her, the guest looked as though she
were doing an impersonation of Nellie Melba
at her 1000th farewell concert. The crown-
ing glory was a golden basket brimming with
dahlias and gladioli that accompanied the
club’s gift of an ivory manicure set and
a leather writing-case. Miss Preston Stan-
ley, president of the club, made the speech
of the afternoon, mentioning that the guest
had been a fervent vice-president during
eight years.
The Society of Arts and Crafts is losing
its secretary, Jessie Newman, after 14 years.
Miss Newman is a sister of Ada, the famous
china painter, and is herself a craftswoman
of the order of the Honorable Mention. Her
work has been of untold value, and the
members owe much to her tact and hard
work, especially during annual exhibition
time. The society has now reached the age
of 21, so perhaps the retiring secretary feels
much as a parent does when he hands his
heir a latchkey.
There was some braw Scots spoken at the
Mary Elizabeth last week, a couple of hun-
dred of the bodies who hail frae north of
Tweed and intend to return on a visit being
the foregatherers. Wallace Nelson, who is
N.S.W. organiser of the expedition, sat in the
chair during the odd moments when he was
not using his own excellent burr in speech.
He was proud of the fact that, of the 650
Australian-Scots who have booked to make
the trip, 220 are residents of the Ma State.
If these successful exiles from Scotia do all
they have it in their minds to do in adver-
tising the country, Britain may find its
northerly back yard deserted during the next
few years.
Sydney Ure Smith was called upon to do
the opdning of the David Jones Gallery. The
introduction of Sydney’s newest art-show
place to the public was made with an exhibi-
tion of pictures by prominent British artists
and that Maoriland exile, Sidney L. Thomp-
son, who has lived and worked for 27 years
in a French village. Of the pictures, which,
by the way, include only one nude, a couple
are outstanding. The first of them is the
Orpen portrait of an “Italian Mayor,” pur-
chased by the National Gallery; the other
is an interestingly-worked study of a struggle
between artificial light, which gleams upon a
table nicely set for supper on a roof garden,
and the moonlight and purple sky against
which the main figure stands —it is called
“Peirrot Beguiles” and is by W. E. Webster,
R. 0.1. The gallery itself is rather too spaci-
oiis for the shows which artists hold to catch
suburban sales; but it is intended for an
entertainment hall, too, and has a stage at
one end.
The English-Speaking Union has welcomed
home Alfred Meeks and his lady; and the
Dalkeith McMasters were greeted, too, with
a buzz of hosannas. The McMasters were
hosts the other week to a pilgrim band of
Unionists intent on seeing Australia first;
their hospitality (a turkey and champagne
lunch, set for atmosphere in the sliearing-
shed, was a star item), and the infinite
pains they took to show their guests
how the wheels go round on a big sta-
tion still live happily in the memory.
Perhaps it was thoughts of the recent floods
that inspired the committee to present Mrs.
McMasters with a gilded gondola complete
with canopy and gondolier. The scarlet
lilies and orchids the craft contained made
a splendid blaze against the lady’s amethys-
tine georgettes heavy with fringes. Red roses
were given to Alfred Meeks’s lady in con-
trast to her frock of ring velvets that spark-
led with diamente. The Henry Braddons did
the honors, she in jade and silver, with which
she carried a curling grey ostrich-feather fan.
The frocking and decorations at the
Manchee-Hunter wedding sent a sibilant
murmur of admiration through St. Philip’s
early last week. Tall wands that blossomed
into pink lilies and an aisle massed with
exotic foliage lightened the austerity of the
old Church Hill vow-exchange, and to their
color the bride, tall Vivian Manchce, added
the dignity of ivory satin stiff with rhine-
stones and pearls. The wedding dress, being
the last word in modernity, finished off its
cross-over bodice with a Louis the Fifteenth
bow. The skirt was draped and fell into
uneven lengths at the hem line. The train
was a Moonlight Sonata in silver lamd,
sparkling with gems and misted over witli
tulle, and the veil was of the same thistle
down weave. An armful of pink tiger-lilies
that trailed off into a frangipanni horseshoe
put the finishing touch on the pretty gir’.
from Moree. Bride’s sister Marjorie and
groom’s sister Jessie floated after the prin-
cipal in dresses of sea-foam green chiffons
that might have been designed for the Rhine
maidens. They wore begemmed cubist de-
signs the length of the front panel, and at
the sides cascaded into panels of pale-green
seaweed. Leslie Hill was best man, John
Mancliee the groomsman, and the guests
foregathered, at the instigation of the bride’s
parents—the Lionel Manchees of Binneguy
station —at the Australia. Ronald Hunter,
the groom, is a young doctor at Forbes.
The Voice breathed o’er St. Philip’s last
week in the interests of Evelyn Bond Roseby,
a pretty Wollstonecraft girl, and Edwin
Jacobs, of Summer Hill. Padre C. T. Koii-
derdine hobbled the pair, the bride wearing
for the occasion an old-time frock of real
lace through which the chiffon lining shone
palely rose. A girdle of pearls and a spread-
ing veil of tulle moored to the shining hair
with a garland of white heather were eye
attractions in the pictorial outfit. Two
’maids in blue-frilled tulle topped by blue
picture-hats were important people in the
procession.
The path of glory that was to lead to
America and England has been changed for
Floie Allan into the path that leads to the
altar. The bright little lady almost had her
foot on the boat when a chance to appear
in Gaston Mervale’s Grand Guignol plays
decided her to wait. The other day she was
married in Melbourne, her ’groom, a New-
castle man, having dashed over and induced
her to face a quiet ceremony. So the Ameri-
can trip lias apparently gone by the board.
Golfers over all Australia will greet the
lady in the picture as an old friend. She is
Miss Trevor
Jones, and for
20 years she
has acted as
honorary sec-
retary of the
Aust r a 1 i a n
Golf Club,
and for 15
years has done
the same work
for the N.S.W.
Ladies’ Golf
Union. Miss
Trevor Jones,
who is taking
12 month s’
leave owing to
ill health was
the other day
feted by the
L.G.U., and
received the
usual flowers
and presenta-
tions and fair speeches. These last she
merited, fair and square, for a more amiable
and thorough secretary lias never held office.
Gwenda, the last of Mrs. G. Monie’s
daughters, was married last week to her
Norwegian, Neils Storaker. An ensemble of
rose-pink ring-velvet, collared and cuffed iu
chinchilla and shoulder-sprayed with orchids,
was worn by the handsome girl. Brother
Keith gave her away, and good-looking
Father Tansey drew up and sealed the cov-
enants and agreements. The ceremony took
place in the flat at Waratah House, which
has for some time been the home of Gwenda
and her mother.
Spanish lace ivoried by time formed the
train that flowed in the wake of Mona
Evelyn Pitt’s wedding frock. This bride
kept" to her home side of the harbor, and
was wed at St. Thomas’s on the North
Shore to Cyrus Clive Eetallack, of Can-
berra. Mrs. Neville Milson and Betty Play-
fair. wrapped in pink and silver, followed the
ivory satin and orange blossoms, whose bearer
was on brother George Pitt’s arm, with
reserves in best-man R. MacKinnon and
groomsman Neville Milson. The toasts and
their attendant rites kept the Warriugah
Hall electrics bright till midnight.
A country lass who is considering trous-
seaux is Jean, eldest daughter of the Kin-
ross Stirlings, of Forbes. Her young man
is Padre Alexander Walter Bray, of the Far
West Mission, eldest son of the Thomas
Brays, of Ilurstville.
The Mosman kirk, prettily set about with
pink lilies ahd asters, blessed the vows that
linked Florence James, of Cremorne, to Keith
Dibbs, of Mosman; padre Macdonald being
the official riveter. Ivory satin with wrist-
length sleeves and with ankle-length side-
drapes formed the wedding dress proper, and
to this were added an imposing tram of
lace over pale-pink georgette and a veil of
rare Limerick lace. Two school-friends of
the bride, Brenda Hartland and Eva Green,
maided in swirls of primrose tulle ; and later
Mr. and Mrs. W. James entertained family
friends at the Mosman Golf Club.
The subject of this May Moore picture is
Mrs. Monckton, of Newport, one of the latest
of our Austra-
lian novelists.
Her book, “The
Sh u 111 e of
Li f e,” just
about due at
Dymock’s from
II u tchinson’s,
is described as
a vivid story
of life in Syd-
ney and Mel-
bourne. It is
the lady’s first
published
work, but is
only one of
several she
has written —
hitherto she
had been too
modest to send
anything out
in search of a
publisher.
Everybody in Sydney knows the work
done by the Sunshine Club in supplying
holidays to poor kiddies. Motorists have
always been generous in lending their ’buses
for these joy excursions; and they took
keenly to the idea of a car competition in
place of the usual Queen contest. It isn’t
of much consequence that Studebakers topped
the poll with 194,000 “volts,” Buicks running
into second place with 150,000. What does
matter is that the Sunsliiners receive £2OOO
towards paying for a new holiday house at
War r a wee.
Professor-poet Guy le Gay Brereton is
writing the Masque and Ante-Masque that
is to be the spoken word of the mucli-dis-
cussed University pageant. The Masque will
include 132 and the Ante-Masque nearly 100
characters. Through it will walk the great
teachers of all time; and, incidentally,
glimpses of the courts of Elizabeth and of
Lorenzo the Magnificent, as the author
visions them, will be flashed upon the eye of
highbrow and lowboy in the Great Hall on
May 10, 11 and 12. Australia, too, is to
have a place—Wentworth, who gave us our
Constitution (and no shoddy about it, judg-
ing by the surf girl and boy), is to have a
star bit in the mumming. Musicians Mote,
Ranclaud and Roland Foster are settipg the
lyrics to music; May Boult is arranging the
dancing; Leila Coppola and Mrs. J. C. Win-
deyer are in charge of the costumes, and
Don Finlay is directing the programme that
will combine dignity and ye merry mood.
Mungo MacCallum’s lady, who is just back
from Tasmania, is president of the whole
boiling. (P.S. —And a pretty kettle of fish
it promises to be!)
At last this State has a graduate in
Domestic Science. She is Doris Williams,
and she is the first student to struggle
through to the bitter end of the six years’
training. This starts with scouring tables
and dishes, and ends up with the higher
chemistry, and this Letter isn’t certain but
thinks a symposium of the poets and a few
mornings with the philosophers are included.
Certainly cooking and washing and ironing
are milestones on the way; and (cover your
heads with ashes) the chair is occupied by
a man! Doris, who is a lecturer at the
Women’s College, now feels equipped for
matrimony, and is about to plunge into that
troubled sea, confident that her diplomas pro-
claim her fit to make pies as good as
mother made (if that is ever possible). The
girl is a clever amateur actress, too, and the
other night took part in the Education De-
partment’s production of “Twelfth Night.”
The Royal Life Savers were early among
the dance organisers of the season. On the
good old principle of robbing Peter so that
they might have the means to strip Paul
more thoroughly they ran a Leap Year dance
at tlie Wentworth to pay theexes. of their big
flutter on the Mooltan. Everybody who was
at the first was at the second. As far as
could be discovered no blushing young male
had to murmur “This is so sudden” in reply
to the urgings of any ardent flapper. In fact,
there were two prizes given for bashfulness.
One of these went to Winnie Standen, who
went home with a fragile marabout case
in which to obscure her pyjamas in the
light of day. Russell Crane was voted the
most bashful man, and the poll was worth
five guineas in cash to him. But he handed
it back to the fund, while Mrs. Maclurcan,
who gave both prizes, smiled benignly. Mrs.
England, the organiser, girdled her blue
taffetas with prize pink roses, and hostessed
a large party. President Kelso King also
paid the piper while daughter Olive danced
in delft-blue satins, and Hazel Kelso King
did it in lobelia-blue chiffons sprayed with
diaments. Two nice young things were
Rachel Joy Morton, in pink and silver, and
Genelle Parker, in ankle-length white moire.
“Girl Friend” Annie Croft beckoned a
multitude into the Ambassadors one after-
noon last week in the interests of the babies
of St. Margaret’s. There in sea-blue chiffons
she waved the glad hand, and added song
and dance, looking like a school girl to
small-son David, who gravely passed a posy
to each of the girl friends in mother’s
company as she arrived to do her bit. The
male chorus from “Our Miss Gibbs,” with
the versatile Annie alternately leading and
shooing them around the ballroom, made
a great hit, and so did turns by Lorna
Helms and Leo Franklyti and the priceless
Gus Bluett. Mrs. David Stewart Dawson,
St. Margaret’s consistent good friend, was
president of the success; and the committee
included such of the hospital’s enthusiasts as
Sister Kerven and the Arthur McNiven,
John Jacobson and J. 11. Mostyn matrons.
Three cheers for Queen Mary, who took
her pen in her hand the other day and wrote
to the Maternity and Mortality Conferers at
Central Hall, Westminster, telling them she
regarded with grave concern the continued
high rate of maternal mortality, which she
further referred to as “a reproach on the
national life” ! Now, perhaps, women whom
the matter really concerns will follow where
Mary has led and vigorously demand a
better training in obstetrics for the young
doctor who nine times out of 10 proceeds
at once into the country to learn by experi-
ence a little more about his profession. The
sketchy training hitherto suffered would
never have prevailed if our University
Senates had, as Peg o’ My Heart would put
it, “ever been a mother.”
On Friday the new Regent Theatre will
be opened with a fanfare of social trumpets.
The management is handing over the entire
takings of this first night’s gala performance
to the city’s charities. At a meeting, under
the direction of Mrs. Bavin, it was decided
that 00 per cent, shall go to the Hospital
Saturday Fund; and of the remainder
Sydney Hospital gets 25 per cent., Prince
Alfred’s 12| and the Kindergarten Union
12 b. Hinkler is expected to drop in on the
performance.
“Train Endangered by Sleeper,” ran a
Herald heading last week. That shows you
the danger of trying to read between the
lines.
The movie people like to get it both ways.
Not content with naming their theatres
gloriously, they must tie a stirring adjec-
tive to its tail. Sydney has its Prince Ed-
ward Theatre Beautiful and the Regent
Theatre Magnificent; now the Capitol, com-
ing third in the race, will have to find an
adjective to be upsides with the other two.
But why not just plain Capitol and Interest?
This Letter’s veterinary friend tells it
how to take care of its Pom.: —
For food, young, tender chicken and fillet of fish
are indicated, although beef and mutton can be made
into very dainty dishes provided the cheap cuts
are not used.
Don’t let him chew bones from the butcher’s. A
bone now and again is certainly good for his teeth,
but this want can be supplied by an ivory dummy,
which any jeweller will make for a few pounds. Dip
in cream and sugar, and he will suck and chew at
it for hours.
When taking him out for a walk, always provide
yourself with a suitable club to strike down hounds
which try to approach him. If allowed to have
friends out of his class, his manners are sure to
suffer.
Never, on any account, strike him. If he snaps
at you or anyone, remember that raw meat is a
dog’s natural food. If other people come close
enough to get bitten, point this out to them and
tell them to keep away.
Bath, dry and powder him and clean his teeth
three times a week. It is so easy to neglect these
little things that mean so much to your pet’s
comfort.
If you take him to a show and get beaten, never
mention the circumstances in his hearing. His con-
tempt for the human species is great enough as it is.
Mrs. Herbert Nelson has decided to take
up interior decorating as a profession. Those
who knew her flats at Strathkyle, the Albany
and Hampton Court have a memory of deli-
cate color harmonies, originality and comfort.


s m lniaurffl
liagßislhi Out Crystal
Wr?P?,
> .y
mm
BA. 8449.
Cut Crystal Flower Bowl,
with holder. Height 4i
inches ; diameter, 8 inches.
£2/18/-
*md!3
BA. 8447.
Cut Crystal Bowl. For
salads or fruit. Diameter,
9 inches.
£2/10/-
ŵ
ẁ
.
m
BA. 8441.
Cut Crystal Vase.
Height, 7 inches.
BA. 8448.
Set of Six Cut Crystal Goblets.
Height, 4-J inches. Set of six,
£3/12/.
Extra Goblets can always be
obtained as required.
Five per cent, discount allowed
for cash.
Hardy’s illustrated catalogue
will be sent to any address
post free on request.
ẃ
BA. 8444.
Cut Crystal Vase.
Height, 6 inches.
9/6
2JB-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
op SasxLuswc fJeweUejy
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
.116-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
ẅ
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
Their Uniformed Interpreters at prin-
cipal ports and stations in Europe assist
their patrons in passing Customs
examinations, registering baggage, etc.
Passages Booked by all Lines.
Travellers’ Cheques Issued.
Insurance of Baggage Effected.
Escorted Tours to Europe, etc.
Empire Farmers’ Tour Great Britain.
Inclusive Independent Tours.
Summer Holiday Tours.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
26S Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEYj
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildim*
(Next G.P.0.).
Exquisite
Beauty
of
Design
w
To the world-acknowledged accuracy of
Elgin watches is wedded exquisite beauty
of design. An Elgin is an investment you
will never regret—an investment in good
taste, authentic design, unhurried crafts-
manship—and one that will pay divi-
dends of unerring service.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
<S>lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCE AND EFFICIENCY
fhi? Jrade Mark Wfijfl in the Waich Care
1
*m
A
We ail know the temptation
“The pie really is delicious—Well, if you
insist, just a little more—Yes, there certain-
ly will be consequences, but one doesn’t
often meet a pie like this—Besides I bought
a fresh bottle of ENO to-day.
ENOVTruit Salt”is the
most efficacious correct-
ive for those ills result-
ing from occasional over
indulgence. ENOwillat
all times, and in every
climate help maintain
the perfect functional
activities of the bodily
organs.
Being free from sugar,
flavouring matter, and
purgative mineral salts
its regular use has no
drawbacks. In fact,
ENO assists Nature
without supplanting her
methods and can safely
be taken by young or
old.
Prepared only by
J.C.ENO, Limited.
London. England.
Sales Agents : The British
Harold F. Ritchie &. Co.,
Ltd.. Sydney, N.S.W.
ŵ
IN
TWO SIZES*
AT CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
Sue words “fruit salt-and eno are registered trade marks.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FTRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
I
01 s
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
uioishs
•ism l°H [WIU33
jijpaiguoiux/fc
With this system hot water is obtained immediately
by merely turning on the hot-water tap for the
bath, shower, washbasin, kitchen sink and wash-
troughs. The heater itself is in the loft. The
system is absolutely hygienic, no dirt, no fuel used,
no matches, no smell or smoke or fumes. Saves
tremendous labor, and the cost of electricity is so
moderate that the system soon pays for itself in
the economies it effects. The “Triton” System is
covered by a two years’ guarantee against electrical
failure. Full Particulars from
THOS. ABBOTT & CO.,
McEwan House, Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
’Phone F 4042. Corner Wynyard and Margaret Lanes,
SYDNEY, N.S. 11’. 11l Taranaki Street, Wellington,
N.Z. Agencies: A. C. Clarke, 13 2 Gawler Place,
Adelaide, S.A. Harris, Scarfe and Sandover, Ltd.,
Hay Street, Perth, W.A. W. H. Knight and Peter
Bros. Ply., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston, Tas. James
Campbell and Sons, Ltd., Creek Street, Brisbane,
Qttecnsland.
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up
to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining 7.30,
12/6. Supper 10 p.m. till 1 a.ra., 10/6.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 7.30 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.15 p.m.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret afternoon and evening-
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 5, */-»
parties of 6 upwards, 3/6.
Saturdays and holidays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Order Wines before 6 D.m. Ring M3C66.
Melbourne
Chatter
On Newmarket Day the air was sultry
with now and then a few huge raindrops, so
that there wasn’t much of a fashion display.
Just before the big race, a Heaven-sent
breeze, cool and caressing, put even the
losers in a good humor. In the mixed dress-
ing one noted that the latest top-coats and
gowns are all fastened on the left hip. The
black reversible satin frocks were the most
noticeable of coverings, supplanting the beige
and its near-pink connections. The felt hat
turned off the face with a near-diamond
buckle, or those of the aviator-cap model
with even ear flaps, seemed the correct mil-
linery.
The G.-G. was accompanied by Lady
Stonehaven, whose black gown had narrow
interrupting bands of jade green with touches
of gold, the hat being a black felt of droop-
ing brim ; Lady Hilda Keith Falconer wore
black satin uplifted with white. Their Excel-
lencies scattered invitations for luncheon;
also the State Governor and Lady Somers
gathered up some friends to be regaled in
their special sanctum. Lady Somers wore a
chiffon frock patterned with a wriggly de-
sign in brown, topped by a biscuit-toned
wide-leafed straw hat; Lady Caroline Agar
was a study in bois-de-rose. Much interest
was centred in the just-arrived Mandevilles;
the viscountess wore a trim coat and skirt
of black satin, with a diamond ornament
on her black felt hat as only relief; her hus-
band was all brown.
The polo matches for the Stradbroke Cup
began on Friday at Moonee Valley. Governor
Somers’s team was successful in its first
encounter. Beneath a green and white striped
parasol Lady Somers, a vision in all blue,
watched the proceedings with Lady Caroline
Agar, who wore a shady hat with a cerise
ribbon band above fawn georgette and lace
gown. Most patrons brought along their
own luncheon hampers. Frocks were of the
coolest, washing silks and georgettes leading
the field. Among the country folk were Mrs.
J. O. Robertson, of Nar-nar-goon; Mrs.
Charles C. Kelly, whose husband got a nasty
jab during play; Mrs. Jim Fairbairn, of Alt.
Elephant; Mrs. A. V. Hiskens and her daugh-
ter Lorna, the last being showered with
congratulations upon her lately announced
engagement to Harold Anderson.
All's. Norman Brookes, in silver-thread
tracery upon upholstery of tourmaline pink,
was entertained at dinner at the Lyceum
Club on Friday by the committee and medical
staff of the Queen Victoria Hospital, of
which she is president. Tributes to the guest
poured in. Mrs. Brookes was chairwoman
of the appeal that raised over £40,000 for the
institution.
The motor-cars of society rolled up to the
door of Shipley House, the South Yarra
home of Air. and Airs. J. E. Hayne on Fri-
day night for daughter Rosemary's coming-
out hop. Rain poured without, but all went
joyfully within the aster-decked marquee
which served as ballroom. The debu-
tante aired upon her apricot-pink taffeta
frock a dainty brooch of platinum and
diamonds, presented by godfather George
Fairbairn. Airs. Hayne wore a gown that
was delft blue of bodice and black of skirt,
linked by embroideries of dull pink and
gold.
The usual beach shows at St. Ivilda were
outshone last week by the carnival staged
by local auxiliaries of the metropolitan
hospitals. The object was to raise £15,000,
in which the blinded Soldiers and the hostel
for blind boys would also participate.
Headed by Mayor Dawkins, of St. Kilda,
the promoters commandeered the lawns
around the yacht club. At night festoons
of lights ringed-in the area and beat upon
a cluster of busy stalls. There were side-
shows and all manner of money-making
devices, from the humble chocolate wheeel to
variants of roulette and race games.
Brominent boxers scrapped picturesquely on
a raised platform, and a bevy of clever
kiddies tumbled and built themselves into
graceful pyramids. Also there were broad-
cast music and the melody of bands and
merry-go-rounds and gramophones to keep
the carnival tambourine a-rolling. Governor
Somers and his lady gave the charity effort
a push-off. Airs. Dawkins, the Alayoress,
led the women auxiliary helpers, her parti-
cular work being the refreshment tent, no
easy task with the crowds assembled. Alum-
mers from many theatrical shows, including
“The Student Prince,” lent voice and hand
on Sunday night at a concert.
Two 'maids with hairbands of tulle and
pink blossoms above frocks of cream lace,
forming a haze over shades of pink satin,
waited on a bride of the week, Sylvia New-
bigin, in white georgette, lace and tulle. A
daughter of the J. C. Newbigin couple of ,
East Malvern, she took as her life-partner
Andrew Gordon Sloane, whose parents are
of Savernake Station, N.S.W. The cele-
brations were held at No. 9 Darling-street.
There will be a warm greeting in many
households for Mrs. G. L. Thirkell, who,
with a small son, has been visiting her
parents. Professor and Mrs. Mackail, on the
other side of the world. The lady is a
grand-daughter of Sir Edward Burne-Jones.
Esna Boyd, wearing a frock of delphinium
blue with encrustations of velvet of a deeper
tone, gathered a travelling rug and a posy
as a farewell offering from her former school-
mates and old collegians of the P.L.C. at
the O. C. Clubrooms on Monday night. Essie
Mollison, president of the association, in
green top-dressed with gold beads and sequins,
and the president of the club, Mrs. T. Purves,
in covering of lapis lazuli blue shimmering
with silver lace, led the well-wishers, who in-
cluded Anne Fortune, lion. sec. of the club,
and Mrs. W. Gray, wife of the principal of
the college. Miss Boyd will join the
Demosthenes at Perth.
Among passengers who landed from the
Ormonde on Monday were Viscount Mande-
ville, heir to the Manchester dukedom, and
his wife, who was Nell Stead, of Melbourne.
The Viscount is a naval man, and the young
couple, who are having a sort of deferred
honeymoon, are spending a month here, hav-
ing taken General Grimwade’s flat at Ames-
bury House, South Yarra, where they will
be neighbors of the Stead household. They
return to England by way of America.
The George Staples’ daughter Bluebell,
Who became Mrs. J. M. Booth and made a
home in the East, has come over from Java
after many years of absence. She and
hubby are making a brief stay at Menzies’
before crossing the ocean to Canada, where
their daughter is settled.
Amongst a covey of prospective brides is
Nanette Stuart, one of the most popular
girls who have passed through Toorak Col-
lege. Fredrick Gilder, the lucky man, owns
a station out Bacchus Marsh way, and Nan-
ette likes the idea of a country life.
The sprinkling of party frocks and tall
hats among those farewelling the Orvieto last
week told of honeymooners aboard. One
couple embarking upon the sentimental
adventure were Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Douglas
Burgoyne, who were linked at St. John’s,
Toorak, with an after-lunching at the popu-
lar No. 9 Darling-street. She was Marcello
Teare Marston, only daughter of E. F.
Marston, of South Australia ; her gown was
a confection of white moire that blended into
white tulle flounces shaped peacock fashion;
two ’maids were studies in tourmaline pink
and mauve with felt hats of the same hue.
Two small train-bearers wearing white taffeta
were quite important folk. Colombo and the
East are included in the itinerary.
Yet another grand-opera season, though
“Carmen” will be the only piece, looms in
the near future. It is being engineered by
Mrs. Selwyn Marsden and Sydney Mannering
in aid of the
Million Shil-
ling permanent
orch e s t r a
appeal. Jack
Cato, F.R.P.S.,
here pictures
the lady, who
will also sing
the role of
Bizet’s hero-
ine. As Sheila
Norman she
studied at the
Albert - street
Conserva-
t o r i u m, and
was one of a
bevy of Aus ■
tralian girls
who proceeded
to Paris for
further in-
s t r u c t ion.
Dame Nellie
Melba showing herself keenly interested in
their progress. Later Mrs. Marsden went
to Berlin and gained more vocal knowledge.
The Moonee Valley Club’s race-meeting in
aid of the Women’s Hospital deserved better
patronage from the grandstand section.
Next year there should be more publicity
in the good cause. Mrs. Herbert Brookes
was there in draperies of cufe-au-lait hue
of georgette and lace, with a hat of the
same color. Other workers in the interests
of the hospital included Mrs. Brodie Ainslie;
Mrs. Chris. Cowper, in raiment of black and
white; Mrs. A. E. Kimpton, in black ninon
patterned with pink peonies topped by a
shading black hat; and that splendid charity-
helper, Mrs. .Tames Alston. Mrs. Ben Chaf-
fey, having her first outing after a serious
attack of ’flu; Miss M. McPherson; Mrs.
Rogers Thomson and daughter Kathleen;
Mrs. A. V. Kewney and Miss Ross Fenner
were among the reliables who always are
there when members pay the same as other
patrons.
In satin from throat to instep, much veil
of old Honiton lace, and an armful of lilies,
Joan Glasgow changed her name on Wed-
nesday. the bridegroom being lan AlcLach-
lan. whose station lands are in South Aus-
tralia. Bananaland Senator and Minister for
Defence William Glasgow led his daughter
up the aisle of the Toorak Presbyterian
Church ; the wedding breakfast was spread
at No. 9 Darling-street, where the Glasgow
lady did the honors in upholstery of navy-
blue satin and matching millinery. Brides-
maids Beth Glasgow and Alyson Pigott wore
dainty apparel of deep amber hue, contrasted
with brown velvet hats of aviator model.
The nicely marcelled crop of hair depicted
here by Rus-
lan belongs to
Edward John
Bryant, wh o
is one of our
pianists of pro-
mise. Though
only 15 years
of age he has
won a two-
years’ scholar-
ship and passed
Grade Two in
recent Uni.
Con. examina-
tions with cre-
dit and ease.
The piano is
his recreation
and sole in-
terest, all his
li opes being
centred on a
career as a vir-
tuoso.
Mary Craven, chief designer and leading
lady of tlie Berlei co. these days, is super-
vising special displays on living models at
city emporiums and demonstrating the
superiority of feminine supports which bear
the brand of this Australasian firm. The
success of the exhibition shows that when
the fair sex can get what it wants in its own
country, especially when that want is a chance
of slim, graceful lines for the figure that
runs to flesh, it may be relied on to grab
the article with both hands. Last year the
firm, co-operating with a statistics-hunting
University, ran the tape over about IG,OOO
women to get some reliable measurements
on a fascinating subject; henceforward every
corset will be identified with some living
model or vice versa. Mary Craven, who
knows most of what there is to be known
about corsets and figures, is a Sydneyite and
has been with the firm for close upon 18
years. At first accessories only were manu-
factured ; it was not until 1921 that the
first batch of locally made mouldings of
whalebone and elastic were placed on the
market. The growth has added one more to
the romances of industry in Australia: there
are now branches in every capital city and
factories in Melbourne, Sydney and Auck-
land.
The George Prentice couple, shortly off
to Europe, were entertained by a group of
friends at the Kiosk, Malvern, Willie Shane
being the moving spirit. Mrs. Prentice,
whose home in Upper Hawthorn has been
the scene of lavish hospitality, was enveloped
in a mist of blue like a summer night. The
Eric Bennetts, Mrs. Jack Hill and the
Frank Kirby couple were among the fare-
wellers.
Linda, youngest daughter of James Ander-
son, Skelmorlie, Hawthorn, has accepted an
engagement token from Reginald Dalton
McKellar Hall. F.R.C.S.. son of the lat •
Antony Hall, Broken Hill, whose widow is
now a resident of Perth.
In the early part of last week old Xaveri-
aris loaded the wires with felicitations to
their lion, sec., Digger H. Shrader, who
entered into life partnership with Mary
Hunt. The Montgomery Kerrs, with whom
Mary came to Australia from London a
year ago, provided the setting for the cere-
mony, and Father M. O’Brien dropped in to
seal the compact. The bride’s mother (her
dad is dead) came over the ocean from Fog-
town to bestow her blessing.
Mrs. Jim Morrissy is visiting her parents,
the Leo Cussens. To the happiness of hav-
ing an only daughter once more under the
family roof- is added the delight brought by
a grandson. It was at Alice Cussen’s
wedding that the maids were refused ad-
mittance till their shoulders were discreetly
shawled.
An exceedingly popular appointment is
that of Julia Flynn to the position of
Assistant Chief Inspector of Secondary
Schools. For over ten years the lady lias
been a senior inspector of the Education
Department. When the job of A.C.I.
became vacant she seemed marked out for it,
but there was the usual disinclination to
let a woman, however competent, hold an
administrative post. However, fair play pre-
vailed, though some lingering prejudice was
manifested in the decision to chop £l5O off
the £BOO per year for no reason apparently
except that the new A.C.I. is of the wrong
sex. This is a bit of paltriness that ought to
be promptly repaired.
Dr. I. D. Mclnnes, our tennis star, who
with Gerald Patterson defeated tile French
stars Borotra and Boussus in the final doubles
in this city, will shortly be lost to metropoli-
tan courts. He has bought a practice at
Mortlake in the Western district.
Bound for a European jaunt are Dr. and
Mrs. Cecil Tucker of Brighton. A parting
cup of tea was poured out for the couple at
the Brighton Children’s Home, where the
doctor has done honorary work for 10 years.
Flight-Lieutenant Wackett, who came
back from his New Guinea flight covered
with honors, has added a lovely fiancee to
his spoils. The airman is naturally accus-
tomed to swift action, and it was a very
brief wooing that swept Doreen Dove into
the engaged arena. The announcement has
resulted in a whirlwind of breathless con-
gratulations.
Mrs. Edward Shackell is down for a
March sailing; daughters Aimde and Betty
will accompany her. The youngest girl,
Addie, who has been in Fogtown for the
past year, will join the family party on its
arrival.
Will Dyson’s party to welcome author
Benoit and his wife on Thursday evening
proved one of the most joyful events of the
week. The visiting penman, rotund ami
spare of inches, had little English to spill,
but a Gaelic abundance of smiles and ges-
ture. Mrs. H. L. Wilkinson was the notable
exception in a company whose French was
strictly limited, but everyone managed some-
how. The host, assisted by Jimmy Bancks.
made mirth with an impromptu sketch, and
Warde Morgan rendered a couple of songs.
Cady Headley looked over a dog-collar of
pearls, and Betty Dyson was a study in
black. The Ellery couple, Dr. Cross and
Tristram Buesst were amongst the company.
Captain Keith Dawson and his newly-
made bride are expected to touch earth
shortly in this the bridegroom’s home town.
The lady was Anne Eromhead, Lady Bird-
wood's pet niece, and the wedding took
place from aunt’s home in Delhi. The pre-
sent Viceroy’s young son, the lion. Dicky
Wood, acted as page. A swarm, of India's
native rulers attended the reception, and the
presents read like a page from the Arabian
Nights. Mrs. Dawson will have a cousin
to call on in W.A., where the Birdwoods'
daughter is settled.
The Ackland-Allen sisters have moved on
to the Speck, but will return before going
to make acquaintance with Canberra. There
are so many friends waiting to welcome
them in every port that their progress is
rather slow. Many Australians abroad re-
member the kindly hospitality extended them
in Fogland, where Mrs. Ackland-Allen is
an untiring worker on the committee
formed to brighten the horizon of Australian
students.
Madame do Bavay prinked up her home
at Kew with some beautiful horticulture
and arranged bridge tables on Thursday
afternoon to say “Pleased to see you again"
to Mrs. James Burston, just back from
England, and to extend the glad hand to
Mrs. John Murray, of Brie Brie, in the
Western district, daughter of the returned
traveller. The hostess wore a confection of
fawn georgette and lace; her elder daughter.
Marie, was in a mist of grey georgette allied
to silk hat of the same shade.
News of Stella Power of the limpid notes
comes from Chicago, in a bundle of artistic
and beautiful photographs of the singer, who
is appearing in a production of Public
Theatres, Ltd., entitled “Pompadour’s Fan.'
The dainty songbird looks fascinating in
her powdered coiffure and lace draperies,
with the fan aforesaid as a background.
At Foy and Gibson’s lately-acquired quar-
ters in Bourke-street, the remodelling of the
one-time Orient Hotel and the adjoining pre-
mises has proceeded far enough for window
displays to be stocked from the firm's big
stores at Collingwood. The firm has bit on
the progressive idea of running free 'buses
from its in-the-making city shops to Smitb-
strect, where all the exhibited wares, from a
pair of gloves to a wardrobe, can be obtained.
Retiring-president Jack Graham and sec-
retary Dr. Wilson, who are taking a trip
to the Cold Country—the latter with his wife
and daughters—were entertained by the
band of Creswick people in Melbourne whom
they have kept together by means of an
annua] reunion. The society was started
in 1922, and president Graham, who has
done most of the work, was presented with
a silver cigarette-case as a memento of his
services.
Brows were knitted when members of the
Melbourne Repertory Theatre Society met
to discuss the proposed agreement with J.
and N. Tait. By 106 to 88 votes it was
decided to let the Firm have the new pro-
fessional venture on its own, so the society
will necessarily begin again. The situation
is distinctly interesting.


A. SAUNDERS’
Presentation Trophies
A. SAUNDICRS’
SPORTS CUP, pure
silv evplated, Al qual-
ity. Height, S inches.
SPECIAL PRICES
quoted for quanti-
ties for clubs and
schools.
ILLUSTRATIONS
with Price List for-
warded FREE on
request.
A. SAUNDERS’ SPORTS
CUP, pure silverplated, A 1
quality on polished wood base.
Four sizes.
75/-, 84/-, 110/-,
150/-
w
We will sub-
mit Designs of
SHIELDS t o
Suit any
SPORTING
Subject.
ŵ
A. SAUNDERS’ SPORTING SHIELD, polished
oak base, silverplated mounts. 18 inches.
£lO/10/-
A. SAUNDERS silvevplated
ROSE BOWL, A 1 quality on
ebonised base,
£4/10/-
SPECIAL CARE AND ATTENTION GIVEN TO ALL ORDERS BY MAIL.
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker —Jeweller —Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station). SYDNEY.
THREE REMARKABLE
YOUNG MEN IN THE
WORLD OF MUSIC.
iv/
IfiVS
LEO JAN MISCHEL
Violinist* Pianist* Violoncellist*
AUSTRALIAN DATES:
Mar. 17 | Sydney
„ 19 | Newcastle
„ 20 | West Maitland
„ 21 j Sydney
„ 22 i Sydney
~ 23 | Wollongong
„ 24 | Sydney
~ 20 | Katoomba
~ 27 | Lithgow
„ 28 j Wellington
| (Matinee)
„ 28 | Dubbo
„ 29 j Orange
~ 30 j Bathurst
~ 31 | Sydney
Apl. 2 | Parkes
„ 3 | Forbes
„ 4 | Cootamundra
„ 5 | Wagga
„ 7 | Bendigo
~ 9 | Melbourne
~ 10 | Ballarat
„ 11 | Bendigo
„ 12 I Melbourne
„ 14 j Melbourne
~ 10 | Warrnambool
„ 17 | Melbourne
~ 18 | Ballarat
~ 20 | Castiemaine
„ 21 | Melbourne
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER.
WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SIIAKSPEARE.
In preparation for 1928, “Coriolanus,” “All’s Well
That Ends Well,” “Henry IV.” (part 1), “Richard 11.”
Adelaide Season: Prince of Wales Theatre.
Sydney Rep.: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229, Sydney.
Amusements,
prMrIRET H E A T R E,
Kailway Square, adjoining Saunders’ Corner,
m Quay Street, Sydney.-^
RUFE NAYLOR has the honor to present
1/6 2/6 THE FILM GIRL. 3/6 5/6
LAST WEEK.
NIGHTLY AT 7.55.
Reserves at Theatre (MA1000), Nicholsons, Palings.
Samuels, and leading Hotels.
M:\tine£s Thursdays and Saturdays at 2.15.
Theatre Box Office Hours: 9 to 3, 4 to 9.
5$ Y 1) N E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: THE GIRL FRIEND.
CRITERION: CAROLINE.
ROYAL:
THE TRIAL OF MARY DUGAN
PALACE : THE DONOVAN AFFAIR.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards' Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBIHTY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
.1 C. WILLIA M S O N, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: RUDDIGORE.
KING’S THEATRE: THARK.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE TERROR.
ATHENAIUM T H E A T R E,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll. ■ •
COMMENCING SATURDAY, MARCH 10.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
The Eminent London Actor-Manager
PERCY HUTCHISON
And His Company of English Artists in
THE JOKER.
Thrilling Four-act Mystery Play.
Plans at Allan’s.
HO Y T’S D E LU X E THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
IN OLD KENTUCKY,
Featuring JAMES MURRAY and HELEN COSTELLO.
at,so
EDMUND LOWE in
THE WIZARD.
With STUART HOLMES and LAURA LE BRETON.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
IRENE RICH
in
THE CLIMBERS.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone: 7070 & 7790.
The Little Sisters
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Governor presided at the annual
meeting of the Queensland Musical and Self-
Aid Society for the Blind. Lady Goodwin
was presented with flowers in a basket made
by members of the society.
Mrs. C. A. Thelauder had a bridge party
for Miss K. .Cannon at Rangemoor, Clay-
field, amidst bowls of gerberas and pink and
red roses. In March, Miss Cannnn is off
to the Cold Country. ’ Mrs. W. Page Gray
and Mrs. W. B. Charlton were amongst
the guests.
Among the big audience at “The Alarm
Clock” in His Majesty’s on Feb. 28 were
Judge and Mrs. Woolcock, the Fred Harts,
the George Addisons, Colonel and Mrs. Gus
Hughes, Glad Iteay, the E. E. Edwards,
Rev. and Mrs. James Cosh, Mrs. Sanderson
Taylor, Eva Lennon and Daisy Echlin.
Society is still, in a large measure, by the
sea, and Southport has been the centre of
many social functions. Amidst tall crystal
vases of daffodil cannas, Mrs. Washington
Power poured the bohea for friends in the
Eastern tearooms. Mrs. A. 11. Wliitting-
ham, Mrs. Frank Wilson and Josie Power
were amongst the sippers.
On Feb. 27 the Ann-street Presbyterian.
Kirk (where Melba was married) saw the
wedding of Will Pearson to Kathleen Mary,
only child of Mrs. M. Forrest. The bride
wore a patalled apricot taffeta frock worked
with a design in silver and a tulle veil
broidered in lilies, and carried a white lace
fan and a posy of pink radiance roses. Mrs.
Forrest was in a Paris model of ivory mari-
ette encrusted with silver and crystal and
a broidered net hat rimmed with fuchsia.
Her bouquet was of crimson roses and fuch-
sias. E. ,T. Pearson, jun., best manned. The
bride and ’groom leave this week for Sydney,
where they will make their nest.
Bride-elect Anne Barber was guest of
honor at a party given by Mrs. Sydney
Smith and Miss I. Birley at Kangaroo
Point. Her wedding to Roy Birley takes
place this week.
Matron Linda Bell had a send-off at the
Anzac Repatriation hostel, when she was
presented with a gold watch from the gen-
eral and nursing staff and patients. Misses
Schroder and Tucker arranged the concert
programme, and Mildred Bell and Jean Mac-
taggart were amongst the songsters. Dr.
and Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart, just returned
from their tour, were in the throng.
Mrs. E. V. Reid and Miss C. C. Reid,
who leave for England on March 10, had a
farewell'tea-party at Rowe’s. Baskets and
silver vases of pink and yellow roses dressed
the long table, with puffings of cowslip-
tinted tulle and trails of asparagus fern.
WEST AUSTRALIA.
Perth.
Walter James’s lady and Mrs. Cowan
arranged a “God-speed” afternoon for Mrs.
Norman Macdougall, who is off for a holiday
to the Eastern States. She has been an un-
tiring worker for the Red Cross, the Red
Cross Hospital Auxiliary and other deserving
Clarities. Among well-wishers present were
the Lathlain lady. Mrs. John Nicholson, Miss
Durack, Mrs. Ernest Chase, Mrs. Love-
kin, Mrs. Hunter Taylor and Miss Shenton.
A leather travelling cushion was presented
to the guest of honor.
This is Mrs. Howard Buchanan, v/lio left
behind many real friends and regretful fellow-
workers on her departure for Tasmania. An
enthusiastic helper of the Children’s Hospital
and Children’s
Protection So-
ciety, she was
an equal ly
staunch prop
of the Reper-
tory Club,
where she
reigned on the
ladies’ com-
mittee and
arranged seve-
ral series of
readings for
members. Her
husband was
another of the
club’s firm
friends, and
for five years
kept an eye
on the ex-
penses as hon-
orary treas-
ure r. Mr.
Buchanan was manager of the Royal Bank
in Perth, and on its amalgamation with
the E., S. and A. he left to manage the
E., S. and A.’s branch in Hobart.
Linda Anderson, who has been visiting
the West from Melbourne, has promised to
marry Dr. McKellar Hall, of Nedlands.
Dr. Alfred Watkins left for England as
the Jervis Bay’s medical officer. For a year
he has acted as locum in various country
towns ; he intends studying special branches
of surgery in the English hospitals.
Dorothy Bird gave a frock-liarger and
shoe-tree evening for Stella Moullin, who
came in black georgette .and taffetas. Miss
Bird chose sky-blue embossed taffetas, and
Rona Marfleet carried off the prize for top
bridge score. Miss Moullin has since become
Mrs. Leslie James.
Mrs. Morris Edwards will be missed by
Perth and York society. She catches the
Otranto early in March with her children,
who will be “finished off” abroad.
Dr. Georgina Sweet, the Y.W.C.A.’s new
president, was given a lunch while the Orvieto
was in port. Dr. Sweet will represent the
Australian Y.W.C.A. at the conference held
in June at Budapest.
The Elocution Teachers’ Association
chose the Karrakatta Club ballroom for
their first guest evening. President Mrs.
Mcßostie introduced vice-patron Dr. Battye,
who spoke informatively on the art of
speechifying. Muriel Slattery contributed
piano solos, Beryl Seward gave some Shak-
spearean blank \erse, Ethel Treadgold and
Elspeth Ross sang and Margaret Sharp
played the fiddle. Lucie Jennings did the
organising.
This is a Bardwell Clarke picture of the
wife of Charles Nathan, lately knighted
for bis war work and services on the
Development and Migration Commission.
Th e indefati-
gable gentle-
man with a
handle to his
name helped
to build the
enterprise
k n o w n as
Charles
Atkins, Ltd.
lie is a suc-
cessful man
in every sense
of the word,
and the lady
who shares the
title has been
a great factor
in his success.
She came from
England, but
no Australian-
born woman
could take a
keener interest
in the progress of Australian industries.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Kathleen, daughter of Dr. E. W. J.
Ireland, and Richard Pitt, Glen Dim. Ouse,
took the plunge at the Congregational Church
one recent day. The bride wore ivory
georgette, falling to an uneven hemline
weighted with beads and sequins, and veil
of silk embroidered Brussels net. caught over
one ear with a spray of orange blossom. The
maids, Ethel Tinning and Isabel Ireland,
were in powder-blue taffeta and silver lace,
with long slim bodices and quite full skirts.
At the reception at Huonden, following the
ceremony, the bride’s stepmother received in
a frock of deep blue velvet touched with
Limerick lace, and the bridegroom’s mother
in black georgette beaded with moonlight
blue and sequins.
The at-home on the flagship, the Sydney,
was a very gay affair. Captain Massey,
Commander Garsia (Platypus), Commander
Ivan Whithorn, Captain Harrison, Com-
mander Ringrose and Lieut.-Commander
Rhodes 'received the guests. Margaret
O’Grady wore a black cloth suit with a sable
necklet; Mrs. Garsia was there with her deb.
daughter Elizabeth, and the Cyril Lewises'
new season’s bud came with Lady Lewis.
Mrs. Walter Marks brought her daughter
Joan (they have been staying witli the Edwin
Websters at Graystanes), and among others
were Miss Perrey. Miss B. Riley (England),
Miss Russell (Q.), the Cox Taylors, the
Chief Justice Nicholls and his lady, the
Giblin girls, Gertrude Grimwade (Geelong),
the Tom Murdochs, Mrs. Tom Lyons and
one of her girls and Mrs. Clive Lord.
Ronda, the elder of the two handsome
daughters of the Tom Clarkes (Quoon, Camp-
belltown), has announced her engagement to
Commander Whithorn, of 11.M.A.5. Adelaide.
Mrs. Tom Clarke and the prospective bride
are leaving at an early date for England,
where the wedding will probably take place.
The second annual ball of the Art Society
came off in the Town Hall; the ex-
hibits, hung around, serving the double pur-
pose of a scheme of decoration and a topic
for shy debs, to break the ice with.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adcdaide.
Adelaide’s latest University calendar
chronicles some rather hefty benefactions.
T. E. Barr Smith, whose father paid for
most of the library, offers £20,000 to
bouse it fittingly; it is to be down on the
flat, near the river, the University site up
the hill on North-terrace having lately
been doubled in size by a Government gift of
the old barracks. The Union Club for
students was trying to raise £20,000, and
considering the idea of letting women have
a share in it, when Josiah Symon and his
Dame threw in £lO,OOO for the woman’s
section only ; this block, also on the flat, is
already half up. The council is “still with-
out a suitable site’’ for the Great Hall,
though Langdon Bonython’s promise of
£40,000 for building it comes due in 1930.
The Duncan family have given their sub-
urban mansion as a St. Andrew's residential
college, Presbyterian, on similar lines to
St. Mark’s, Anglican. Pastoralists and agri-
culturists are rallying round the Urrbrae
research estate, under Professors A. E. V.
Richardson and Prescott. John Melrose has
given £lO,OOO for a chemical lab.; W. T.
Mortlock added £2OOO, and handsome help
with implements and fertilisers comes from
quite unexpected quarters.
Frank de Mole, an Adelaidean who has
spent many years in other climes, is back on
a brief visit. He is a golf architect, at pre-
sent engaged in laying out at Seattle, U.S.A..
what are expected to be the most wonderful
golf links in the world for some of the
game’s wealthiest patrons, including Hebrew
millionaires.
On Wednesday evening Miss Violet de
Mole gave a party in her brother's honor at
the Lyceum Club. Mrs. F. .T. Fisher sent
along lovely asters and zinnias for the deco-
ration work, and the gathering was a pot-
pourri of old friends. The hostess was a
draped study in brown, gold and fuchsia
shades.
Clive Carey, of the Elder Conservatorium,
who shortly leaves these shores for good, has
bequeathed us a memorial in the form of the
Folk Song and Dance Society. Ills creation
is giving him a good-bye shivoo at the Vic-
toria Hall; it will also be a welcome to
Mrs. Charles Todd and Miss Lorna Todd.


Australia’s Greatest Crop is in Danger!
A GRICULTURAL scientists declare that Grass is Australia’s greatest crop. On our grass lands
depend not only the great primary industries of wool-growing and cattle-raising, but also their
dependent secondary industries. Carrying capacity has declined and is declining over millions of
acres of these pasture lands.
’yHE scientists attribute the decline of our pastures and consequent disease of cattle and sheep
mainly to the steady robbing of the soil of essential plant food. And unless we take steps to
REVITALIZE OUR SOILS the capacity to make money out of our pastures will steadily decline.
JT has been found that, after surface fertilizing, the revenue previously obtained from properties
has been doubled. Agricultural experiments undertaken in South Australia, New South Wales.
Western Australia, Victoria and New Zealand show, without exception, the efficiency of Soil
Fertilization. Commercial sanity requires that we shall profit by the knowledge of the scientist and
immediately take the steps necessary for safeguarding the rich heritage we obtained from Nature.
MAY’S PATENT BROADCAST FERTILIZER SPREADER
is the practical medium for putting into effect the principles of soil fertilization. This simple,
inexpensive machine provides the means of applying a scientific method of increasing your profits.
MAY’S PATENT BROADCAST FERTILIZER SPREADER
can spread to a radius of 40ft., and in quantities of up to 1 ton
per acre. The MAY FERTILIZER SPREADER will distribute fine
gypsum and all supers. If attached to a horse-drawn vehicle the
MAY FERTILIZER SPREADER will cover up to 80 acres per
day; while 250 acres per day can be easily accomplished if the
machine is mounted on a motor-truck.
The machine is very simply designed and is easy to work.
There is one lever for slipping the machine out of gear while
travelling to or from the scene of operation. The flow of manure
can be regulated by another lever which can be manipulated while
the machine is in motion. Below the conical tip of the hopper is
another small adjustment, designed for counteracting the effect of
the wind while spreading manure.
One man can drive and fill the
hopper and carry on the work of spread-
ing the manure entirely unassisted. The
machine is therefore very economical to
use. The initial cost of the MAY
FERTILIZER SPREADER can be made
up in less than one season by the extra
profits secured through top-dressing.
Spare parts can always be readily
obtained by applying to the makers or
to any of the maker’s agents.
BE WISE - - FERTILIZE!
With a May Fertilizer Spreader
MAKERS—
I
Ma
(Ivor
i
REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD USE MAY’S
FERTILIZER SPREADER:
(1 ) Herbage is changed and improved.
(2) Quality of feed is doubled.
(3) There is distinct improvement in health
of live stock.
(4) Soil itself benefits.
(5) Increased profits.
For further information send for our Booklet, entitled
“Perfect Pastures,” which describes in detail the MAY FERTILIZER
SPREADER and the widespread benefits
accruing from its use.
To D. & W. CHANDLER, LTD.,
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
Please send me one copy of your Booklet,
“Perfect Pastures,” post free.
NAME
ADDRESS
Bulletin, 7/3/’2B.
INVEST IN A MAY—
IT IS SURE TO PAY.
D. & W. CHANDLER, LTD.
234-236 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. 276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
AGENTS IN OTHER STATES:
South Australia:
SCRUTTON’S MACHINERY, LTD.,
North Terrace, Adelaide.
New South Wales:
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Miller’s Point, Sydney.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
Parramatta Road, Camperdown.
Western Australia:
EASTWOOD’S HARDWARE STORES,
Perth.
Missing Friends.
YV7ILL MRS. VERONICA ALEXANDER
” and her son GERARD, aged 6 years,
formerly of Broome, W.A., and Melbourne,
or anyone knowing their whereabouts, com-
municate with HERBERT SMITH, Solici-
tor, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney.
GCOTT, ROBERT, who left Australia for
England in 1884, last heard of in Eng-
land 1885, his only son (Robert John Scott)
seeks his whereabouts. Any information
would be gratefully received. Further par-
ticulars supplied.
Apply to ROBERT J. BRADSHAW,
Lila Springs Station, via Bourke, New
South Wales, Australia.
“THE WOMAN'S MIRROR,”
PRICE .. .. .. 3d.
Contains everything « woman needs tv know.
Legal Notice.
V STATE OF MARY ANN LAMPS LATE
OF ST. LEONARDS IN THE STATE
OF NEW SOUTH WALES AUSTRA-
LIA DECEASED INTESTATE.
TAKE NOTICE that the Public Trustee of
New Soutli Wales is the Administrator of
the estate of the abovenamed deceased
who died at St. Leonards intestate on the
sth January 1926. The intestate’s husband
George Lampe if alive on the stli January
1926 would be entitled to a share in the
distribution of the Estate of the said
intestate. He was last heard of between
the years 1592 and 1895 and is believed to
have gone to the South Sea Islands. LET
GEORGE LAMPE TAKE NOTICE that
unless within three months of this date a
claim is received from him to share hi the
Estate of the said intestate the Public
Trustee will proceed to distribute the
Estate amongst the next-of-kin of whose
claims he then has notice.
Dated this Twenty-ninth day of February
1928.
E. J. PAYNE,
Public Trustee.
Legal Notice.
WILLIAM KNOWLSON TRUST.
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Manchester,
England, is desirous of obtaining informa-
tion as to JOHN WILLIAM KNOWLSON
son of John Charles Ivnowlson, who died at
Rookwood on 14th August, 1925. If the said
John William Knowlson will communicate
with the undersigned he may hear of some-
thing to liis advantage.
VICKERY, ENGLAND & WILSON,
Solicitors, 2 Martin Place, Sydney.
Position Vacant.
PUBLIC LIBRARY, MUSEUM, AND ART
GALLERY OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
APPLICATIONS, with testimonials, will be
received until noon on Saturday, March 31, 1928,
for the position of
MUSEUM DIRECTOR.
Salary, £6OO to £7OO a year.
Full particulars obtainable from the undersigned.
HATELY W. MARSHALL,
General Secretary.
Box 386 a G.P.0.,
Adelaide, South Australia.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
o pposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay .
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apart
meats may be secured separately the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tans
and all particulars posted on applicatioc
to The Manager.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


m
yk U:
'%\a'
PLAYER PIANO
offers you all that is best in piano construction.
Clear, true singing quality of tone and fine resonance, excellence of workmanship and materials, fault-
less mechanical precision and permanence of quality are features of every model made by the famous
house of “Wurlitzer.” Get a demonstration from any of the following
Principal “Wurlitzer” Agents:—
*" d C °" “*» 8 ***■
??BT H AUOTKiIit ! iSUS h uS', WTftSf Sss ''""““ ns Co - *»•<*•
™“u,a a : : Ctari - s,r " 1 ' ud - Hobart
Where any difficulty is experienced in procuring a “Wurlitzer”
communicate direct with the factory representatives:
Parker, Blau & Co., Ltd.,
8 O'CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
308 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Girl Friend”
Criterion “Caroline”
Trial of Mary Dugan”
Palace “The Donovan Affair”
Empire “The Film Girl”
Tivon Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Ruddigore”
King’s “Thark”
Royal “The Terror”
Athen.eum Moving Pictures
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Melbourne has become so used to actors
like Moscovitch talking superiorly to it about
Art and then putting on the merest twaddle
that it was quite surprised at the Princess
on Saturday to find itself in a professional
theatre keeping company with a serious play.
It was more than surprised—it was as em-
barrassed as a short man seen out with an-
other man’s tall wife. Yet The Bulletin
confesses that it liked “Tarnish,” despite its
somewhat leisurely first act and its passion
for philosophising like Dr. Crane. It liked
it for its honesty of theatrical intention, its
manipulation of really human dramatic
material, instead of corpses in the wains-
coting, and its attempt to portray types in-
stead of stereotypes. Miss Betty Ross
Clarke was the slightly priggish heroine. She
is oppressed by a selfish mother (meagrely
presented by Dorothy 1 Hinckley) ; and a
raffish father (excellently done by Frank
Hawthorne). The raffish father loses the
family budget in the course of one of his
nymphistic encounters and Miss Clarke goes
after it. The quest leads her to the flat of
the girl who vamped the money out of her
old man’s pocket. There she finds her own
lover (restrainfully done by Warde Morgan)
repelling a hot attack, compounded of cheap
scent, gramophone music, low lights, discord-
ant cushions and other aids to amorous feel-
ing, led by the same lady in pink neglige.
Before Mr. Morgan has time to explain that,
although lie had hauled his flag down to the
same assailant on a previous occasion, he had
no intention of doing so on this, Miss Clarke
has burst out of the scene, determined never
to see him again till the end of the third act.
By that time she has been convinced by a
variety of concrete arguments that, in this
badly-pitted world; even a spotted lover is
better than no lover at all.
* # * *
Miss Clarke had the most continuous em-
ployment, but did not score the biggest suc-
cess. Partly because she had an unsym-
pathetic part and partly because no over-
tones of humor mitigated her emotional C in
alt, she failed to earn the whole-hearted
sympathy of the audience. That lawless
emotion went out to the Queensland girl,
Ruth Arnold, whose portrayal of the com-
mon little female tike who fights Miss Clarke
for her life’s support with every weapon in
her vulgar armory was a masterpiece of
characterisation in its way. Frank Haw-
thorne was another who did excellently as
the fatuous old philanderer : and June Mills,
enormous, stentorian but of no dramatic con-
sequence, was a bootlegger’s bootleg wife.
The scenery made no compromise with
realistic truth.
* * * *
The first production in Melbourne of
“Ruddigore” on Saturday, at Ilis Majesty’s,
will be followed by brief .revivals of “The
Pirates,” “The Mikado,” “Pinafore,” “The
Yeomen,” “The Gondoliers,” “Patience” and
“lolanthe.”
s!: * *
The latest and loosest of Ben Travers’s
farce comedies totters on at Melbourne
King’s, where the spectacle of a playwright
completely tangled in his plot is being viewed
by moderately enthusiastic audiences.
The Colored Ideas at present infesting
Melbourne Tivoli continue to be less re-
markable for ideas than for color. The first
part of the programme is acceptable in places.
Jack Lumsdaine sings songs at the piano,
and there are three sets of gymnasts, each
more remarkable than the others. Asa
low-comedy aviator Hector St. Clair is
taking full advantage of the fact that Hinkler
hasn’t copyrighted his personal appearance.
Those who were not among Bundaberg’s
20,000 can repair the omission this week
by attending at Hoyt’s Melbourne depot,
where Hinkler is descending from the clouds
into his mother’s arms every afternoon and
evening.
* s>: *
Melbourne art: —
Frank Rinder has partially atoned for past mis-
deeds in his latest purchase under the Felton Bequest,
“The Doge Pietro Lorendano,” by Tintoretto (1518-
1594), now on view at the National Gallery, Mel-
bourne. Time and a multitude of restorers have
obviously dealt hardly with the doge’s head-dress
and rubbed most of the nap off his ermine robe ;
but the face still stands the strain. It is that of a
disillusioned but serene old scoundrel, profoundly
bored with being best man at the annual wedding
ẁ
Murray, the escapologist.
Sydney first-nighters will have to make
choice next Saturday between the opening of
the Grand Opera season at the St. James,
the Boucicault-Vanbrugh production of
“Caroline” at the Criterion, and Muriel Starr’s
introduction of “The Donovan Case” at the
Palace. The opera season commences with
two nights of “II Trovatore,” succeeded by
the same allowance of “La Traviata” and “Un
Ballo in Maschero” ; a juggle of changes is to
follow. The Empire will discard “The Film
Girl” in favor of “Take the Air” on March
27; and Leon Gordon is rehearsing “The
Crooked Bullet” without saying exactly when
it is to supersede “The Trial of Mary
Dugan” at the Royal. “The Girl Friend”
pursues her way at Her Majesty’s; and “Up
in Mabel’s Room” remains a welcome guest
at the Grand Opera House.
Arthur Greenaway had one professional
actor at least and several expert Reper-
torians to help him in his production of
“Twelfth Night” at Sydney Conservatorium ;
and the audiences which spread themselves
over four nights and two matinees, follow-
ing on the four nights of the Heath Bur-
dock season, were a little more on the
adult side in the Greenaway show. In both
productions the somewhat weak return of
Malvolio at the close of the play spoilt the
ẃ
A Rough Idea of
“a Colored Idea.”
of the fine Musgrove Shakspeareau co. of
a generation ago, made his final exit on
the line “I shall be revenged upon you all,”
delivered in humiliation and indignation;
the satisfactory reconciliation is only sug-
gested by Olivia sending after him. Green-
away’s rendering of the part secured some
sympathy'for the conceited steward without
interfering with the enjoyment in his dis-
comfiture. Robert Purdie was a virile Duke
Orsino, if a bit over-stagey at times; Harold
Watch lacked the girth of an ideal Sir Toby
Belch and relied mainly on boisterousness
for the humor, and J. E. Campbell fell
further short as Sir Andrew Aguecheek.
As the clown Feste, R. H. Lucas, singing
his songs without accompaniment, failed on
the acting side; M. Anderson was a good
Fabian, and the Sebastian of the produc-
tion, B. Besemer, struggled courageously with
an obvious nervousness, but was helped by a
pleasing voice and a good enunciation. As
Viola, Beryl Lynex spoke several of her
speeches with animation, but her lack of
repose was a heavy handicap. On the other
hand, Gwendolin Sherwood supplied an
unexpectedly graceful and dignified Olivia.
The Repertorian lady who uses the stage
style of Erna Living was vivacious but
somewhat too mature as Maria. The Con-
servator ium will see another Sliakspearean
show at the end of the month, when Heath
Burdock stages “As You Like It.”
The entertaining Cherniavskys will lure
Sydney to the Conservatorium on March 17
with piano, violin and ’cello; other concerts
will be given on the Wednesday, Thursday
and Saturday following.
Lennox Robinson’s “The Round Table,”
presented by the Players’ Club at St.
James’s Hall, Sydney, for two evenings last
week, introduces the Drennan family of
incompetent and tedious theorists who thrust
the whole business of household management
on the shoulders of Daisy, a determined
and comely young lady who is 100 per cent,
efficiency. The trouble begins when Daisy
decides to marry Christopher Pegum, and her
helpless kin, alarmed at the prospect of
losing their mainstay, assail the pair with
reproaches and objections. However, Daisy
breaks down all opposition by guilefully
arranging that a younger sister and a brother
shall become engaged and another brother
shall devote himself to philosophy. Just as
she is free to turn to her future
with her intended husband, a strange,
wandering female intrudes herself into
the mix-up and awakens in the heroine’s
mind a pronounced distaste for the prospect
of escaping from being alternate slave and
bully to an ordinary family by converting
herself into a similar role for a commonplace
husband. The final scene shows her dodging
the dilemma by faring forth into the Un-
known with a third-class railway ticket. The
acting, if it lacked distinction, was fairly
level except in the minor roles.
A new gallery :
The new gallery in David Jones’s building, Sydney,
was opened this week by a comprehensive collection of
British painters; there are nearly 50 of them, all
trailing a few letters after their names. Orpen’s
portrait, “Italian Mayor,” has been pounced upon by
the trustees of the National Art Gallery, its first
sample of that painter’s work. Some of the most in-
teresting exhibits are provided by Sir Herbert Hughes
Stanton, whose “Le Buy de Dome, France,” is an
especially elegant composition, magnificent in its
distances. Laura Knight’s “Peasants’ Dance” is
lively, but the waves in “Carting Seaweed” look
as if they have attended an ocean school where
precision is insisted upon. Harry Watson is at his
best in “Sheep Dipping, Sussex” —his other three
are rather confused. Julius Olsson attracts with
“Silver Moonlight” and “The Early Moon” ; and
Archibald Barnes’s “On a Rock” is a breezy com-
position. Harold Speed supplies a pleasing
lady, fresh from her bath, with a cup of tea
on her couch and nothing on herself. 11. H. La
Thangue has put effective sunshine into “The Shrine,”
but Harold Knight is inclined to be stiff in his two
offerings, while Tom Mostyn gets amazing splashes
of color in “The Old Gate.” Amongst the water-
colors Lamorna Birch has a mass of pictures, several
excellent but some very scrappy; he gets most feeling
into “Prelude,” a glimpse of a world waiting for
the dawn. Heaton Cooper’s “Morning Sun, Amble-
side,” holds the eye. Some small canvases by John
Muirhead and a couple by Webster —the ingeniously
worked “Pierrot Beguiled” especially—repay atten-
tion. Frances Hodgkins dabbles in futurism with
a “Balcony” that looks more like a nightmare, and
Sydney Thompson (Maoriland) follows her example
but with more effectiveness.
Escapologist Murray, who has contrived
to extricate himself from everything else,
including a steel box specially constructed
to detain him, is to escape from the Tivoli
and Sydney after this week. Ann Suter goes
on making friends, bouncing into their
hearts, as it were, on her india-rubber limbs
with amazing energy. Rupert Hazell has
returned to the sunshine of public approval,
which overlooks an inclination to weediness
in his work, and the Di Gatanos’ turn is as
brisk as ever.
* * * *
Although Betty Lambert has vanished
from the present cast of Jim Gerald’s show
at Fullers’ Theatre, Sydney, there is a
new lady in the company, Neva Carr Glynn,
who provides some graceful frolickings arid
a pleasant voice. Jim has revived “Not
Likely,” a satisfying title for any “revue” ;
but he scores best himself in a preliminary
episode in which he prefers to face a den of
tigers than his wife. Ray McLean is on the
dancing strength of the show now; additional
vaudeville specialties are provided by the
I’aulasto Brothers, dancing acrobats, and
Meredith and Stewart, patterists. There is
a “topical” reference in one of the latter
pair’s songs to Mostyn as Lord Mayor which
suggests that the ditty is sadly out of date.
At the Sydney Glaciarium on Monday night
of last week a group of aspirants for a weird
kind of fame started to kick their heels in an
endurance dancing contest. They included
amongst their number a bespectacled young
man named Jimmy Alexander, who was still
twirling his toes after Wednesday night,
when the last of the other competitors in the
foolishness had staggered out of the con-
test. He looked a jaded wreck on Thursday;
but, refreshed by the knowledge that he was
making records and winning prizes, and
cheered by the girls who took it in turns
to dance with him, he made a finish on
Friday night at 11 o’clock with, all things
considered, a remarkable exposition of the
Charleston. His 101 hours on his feet is
alleged to be the world’s best. What use it
is to anybody is not explained ; but his share
of the gate is computed as close upon £4OO.
*
The film shows have naturally burst into
Bert Hinkler pictures. The Regent will be
opened with a gala night on Friday, “Flesh
and the Devil” being the chief item of the
programme. On the same night “Chang”
takes possession of the Prince Edward
Theatre; and the Crystal Palace says good-
bye to “The Romance of Runnibede,” in
order to welcome “Sorrell and Sons” on
Saturday. The Lyceum, released from its
Methodist Conference engagement, is having
a splash of its own ; “The Magic Flame” is
full of rather improbable excitement, which
includes a balloon ascent and parachute jump
by the feminine lead, Vilma Banky, and a
circus clown who is called upon to take the
place of a king.
v **•
Streetonesque:—
Streeton’s exhibition at the Macquarie Gallery,
Bligh-street, Sydney, is a small one; “The Valley” is
something Streeton has painted over and over again,
but it has nice touches; “The Last of the Mess-
mates,” with its glow of expiring sunlight, and a
sunshiny panel, “The Harbor,” carry more appeal.
A makeweight of water-colors, merely rough designs,
call for little notice, although the occasions which
prompted them give them an interest of their own ; they
represent work the artist did to announce the appear-
ance of concert-parties during his war-time service
with the R.A.M.C.
* *
Adelaide grumbles desperately about in-
creased taxation, but it has plenty of money
to spend on shows. Shakspeare at the Prince
of Wales and Gilbert and Sullivan at the Royal
are both turning away money. Wilkie, as
Wolsey, gets strong support from a new-
comer, Clewlow, as Henry VIII. —not yet
married much; advance booking for the
“Midsummer Night” is heavy. The G. and
S. operas have all their old charm; Minnie
Everett, as producer, and Slapoffski, with tlm
baton, share in the honors.


B.S.A. 4-93-h.p. O.H. V.
wins the
South African T. T.
Senior Race
THE consistent reliability, power and speed of the B.S.A. 4.93-h.p. O.H.V.
motor-cycle was proved again in the recent South African T. T. Races,
when H. B. Loader, on a. B.S.A. 4.93-h.p. 0.H.V., won the Senior Race
(600 c. c. Class) over a course of 240 miles. Some idea of the gruelling
nature of the course may be seen from the fact that
out of 17 starters only 3 finished
Reports of consistent successes in other races
and reliability trials show that the B.S.A.
performs equally well in the hands of private
owners. At the East London (South Africa)
M.C.C. Sand Races on December 17, a rider
on a B.S.A. 4.93-h.p. O.H.V. machine was
first in three out of four events, and second in
in the fourth.
In the Crotona M.C.C. Midnight Endurance
Run (U.S.A.) on December 31, a B.S.A.
3.49-h.p. O.H.V. was first with a full score of
1000 points.
In the Great Colmore Cup Trial (England),
February 11 (218 entries), B.S.A. won three
trophies—Colmore Cup, Cranmore Trophy
and Bayliss Trophy for the best Solo and
Side-car performances of the day. B.S.A. also
secured Fastest Time in three classes. A con-
vincing demonstration of B.S.A. consistent
Reliability.
In Australia, Alex. Finlay, riding a Stock
Model B.S.A. 2.49-h.p., creates the first
Sydney-Melbourne Record for a low-powered
machine, breaking the previous record time of
a bigger machine by 15 minutes. Mr. Finlay’s
time for the 565 miles was 17 hours 48 minutes,
once again proving the consistent reliability of
B.S.A. motor-cycles.
Whether you want a machine for sporting
work or for everyday touring, you want power,
speed and reliability. You will get these per-
fectly combined if you choose a B.S.A. motor-
cycle—world famous for consistent reliability.
Winner of the
South African
T.T. Senior Race
m
B.S.A. 4.93-h.p. O.H.V. Model.
LOW CASH PRICES
smauTdeposits
CONVENIENT WEEKLY
PAYMENTS
Send for catalogue and particulars of Easy Payment Terms
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. \
Q’LANDJ
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA- F//VL/I Y BROS. MOTOR CYCLES
PTYm, LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUS.-J. N. TAYLOR & CO., LTD.,
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WEST A\JS.-mortlock bros., ltd.,
830 Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA —sim king pty., ltd.,
63 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia :
D. Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative ), 49 ELIZABETH SIREET, MELBOURNE*
Lead the way on a BS A


A Better Dry Battery
the EVER-READY
The best for wireless
purposes or general
utility bells, tele-
phones,burglar alar ma,
medical coils, etc.
w
Agents everywhere
Write for Illustrated Catalogue
THE EVER-READY CO.
(Gt. Britain) Ltd.
I*3 Pitt Street, Sydney
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
In these days everybody is an investor.
You have a life policy. Is it really worth anything? Is the office
you are in sound?
Are the shares you hold in a solvent company?
“The Bulletin” has established “The 'Wild Cat’ Monthly” to discuss
these matters. Subscribers are invited to ask questions.
Published the first Saturday in each month. Price 2/- per copy;
22/6 per annum. From most newsagents, or direct from “The
Bulletin” Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
MAN
ŵ
NEWS
Jit,
w
(Si*' \
K
“WILD
WEST”
c lo)ide J2eaf EKat
A Great Hat for men of the.big
“Out-Doors! Large Leaf 3?4 ins.
wide~unbound~will not droop.
Ideal for Summer wear. All
Sizes. Steel and Fawn Shades.
30/-
Write Desk
S.B.
PIKE BROTHERS LTD,
In Queen Street, Brisbane
TOWNSVILLE and TOOWOOMBA
THE BULL PADOCK.
BY
JHABSOTT.
OLD Dan Desborougli leaned over the
split-rail fence of Parson Mars-
den’s bull-paddock at Parramatta,
and regarded the chaplain’s stud with
solicitude.
It was not a very large stud —one some-
what nondescript bull and five cows of
assorted breeds —but in the eyes of the grey-
headed First Fleeter it possessed far more
points of interest, excellence and importance
than had those he had been familiar with
in the old days in Ireland. That was long
before they had taken him from the Thames
prison-hullc, where he had been sojourning
as the result of cracking a man’s head at
St. Catherine Docks whilst in charge of an
importation of Irish cattle to England, to
ship him overseas with Commodore Phillip’s
expedition of colonisation to Botany Bay in
1787. For lie well knew that these cattle
were of far more value to Australia than
ever Lord Ballymonk’s or Sir Patrick
Conolly’s pedigree herds had been to the Old
Country. He had no education, but his
sense of proportion was not deficient. To
the young man beside him he spoke with a
certain restrained bitterness and sorrowful
resignation that was pathetic and impres-
sive.
“An’, glory be, for why should his riv’rince
want for to cfo such a t’ing—an’ him wid
all th’ wide worruld for to pick and to
choose from? ’Tis past understandin’, so
it is. Thim bastes over there —though
rnebbe they’re but poor craytures for to luk
at —they do be th’ most import’nest things in
th’ sittlemint, so they are. Phwat’s you,
an’ phwat’s me, an’ phwat’s all these dam’
rapscallions, an’ cornerboys, an’ sojers, an’
overseers to be compared wid ’em in vally?
’Tis thim, an’ th’ sheep, that’s a-goin’ for
to make New Sout’ Wales something more’n
a gaol. Ye can belave that, George me
bhoy, f’r tli’ gospel troot. ’Tis so, indade.
I’m a-tellin’ ye—an’ ’tis me an’ Sam Marsden
that knows it for sartain sure.”
Mr. George Dudney, a mere Third Fleeter,
listened to the old man with respect.
Although the colony was but a dozen years
in being, Danny Desborougli was one of its
original pioneers. Moreover, it was well
known that he had been chosen as >, one of
them because of his experience in agriculture
and stockraising. The examination of his
qualifications had not been a severe one* the
Superintendent of the Milk Charity having
selected him at hazard, from amidst the
motley collection of more or less criminal
London humanity under his charge, because
he had declared himself to be an Irish farm-
hand, and that he knew all about “bastes” ;
but for the rest of his life he posed as one
picked out of available hundreds because of
his special knowledge. Even the fact that
he had largely been responsible for the stray-
ing of the Government stock from Sydney
Cove whose progeny had subsequently given
the Cow Pasture country its name had not
destroyed the reputation which he assidu-
ously cultivated and advertised. And when
the Rev. Samuel Marsden had begun his
farming operations, Danny had succeeded, by
sheer native persuasiveness, in inducing that
hard-headed Yorkshireman to accept him at
his own valuation. So he had acquired a
certain status in the little settlement at
Parramatta which was never questioned by
such as Mr. Dudney.
“An’ why’s tli’ parson a-shiftin’ of ’em
away, Danny?” he asked.
“Begorra, for naught else but to make a
buryin’ ground o’ tli’ paddock—a churchyard,
a cimit’ry. As if thim corpses was a-wantin’
th’ best bit o’ ground this side th’ river, an’
th’ most secure finced, for to be planted in!
Tliim bastes is more vally to th’ sittlemint
than all th’ ould bones, an’ young bones, as’ll
iver come to lie here. He’s a-goin’ for to
consecrate th’ ground at once, he says, an’
Micky tli’ Bull an’ his fam’ly’s to be out of
it to-morry. Bad luck to th’ notion! ’Tis
nojie but a Prodistint’d do such a thing.”
“Aw, well, cheer up, Danny. ’Tis no doubt
Parson Marsden’ll find ye a better spot for
’em to feed in. They’re his cattle, ain’t
they?”
“Faith, he don’t desarve to own ’em, so
he don’t!” remarked Mr. Desborougli, dis-
gustedly, as he led the Way through the
timber down to the huts along George-street
that constituted the Parramatta of 1800. “A
dam’ boneyard to be made out o’ me splindid
bull-paddock! Well, good-niglit to ye,
Georgie. ’Tis plased I am to hear ye’ve bin
made an overseer o’ one o’ tli’ gangs. Don’t
be too har-rd on th’ boys, now. Alius , ray-
mimber, ye’ve a shkin to y’r oivn back.”
It was a curious coincidence that Mr.
Daniel Desborougli, having been horned by
the bull he was employed to guard and
tend, two weeks later occupied the first grave
that was filled in St. John’s Churchyard at
Parramatta, lately Chaplain Marsden’s bull-
paddock. But it is with the story of the
second one dug within the enclosure that
we are. most concerned here.
* * * *
Overseer Dudney, being as astute a Cock-
ney criminal as was ever deported to these
shores, had early recognised that sobriety,
industry and flattering obedience to authority
were indispensable moral adjuncts to advance-
ment in the peculiar community in which he
found himself, and had accordingly been, abste-
mious, hard-working and smugly docile in
his conduct of life. So .had lie prospered,
even to overseership. But he had none the
less remained an enterprising and cunning
criminal. At the time of Danny Desborough’s
death and burial lie had stowed away in
his hut quite a considerable quantity of
stolen goods, the most valuable portion of
which consisted of several pieces of plate
and some jewellery, lately the property of
Captain Humphrey Denver, O.C.
the detachment of the N.S.W.
Corps which garrisoned Parra-
matta and the surrounding dis-
trict. It was necessary that
tins should be disposed of until
it might safely be sent to Lon-
don, and it was at the first
funeral in the new churchyard—
in which, by the way, no church
has ever stood—that
inspiration came to
him concerning its
safe disposal.
The grave of
Danny Desborougli
was situated near the
middle of the burial-*
ground, and when the
fresh earth had been
piled over the coffin-
less remains of the
chaplain’s old cow-
THE BOOKWORM TURNS.
EXASPERATED BOOKSELLER: “Perhaps you’d like to buy that book, Madam?”
UNPERTURBEN MADAM: “Er — no, thanks. I’ve nearly finished it.”
herd, a good deal of loose soil was left
scattered on the grass beside it. So, on
the night of the interment, Overseer Dudney,
assisted by Bermondsey Biddy, the lady
whom he subsequently married, buried
in a wooden box in a hole three feet deep
alongside the mortal remains of Mr. Des-
borough Captain Denver’s missing treasure,
together with sundry other articles of value
collected from different individuals. Visiting
the churchyard next day, he was charmed to
find that no indication whatsoever was evi-
dent that ansffhing more valuable than old
Darny’s corrupting carcase was interred in
the vicinity.
“Biddy, me girl,” he remarked, “there
ẅ
whose interests he considered that the colony
had been founded —a shining example of the
wisdom of giving a dog that had been down
anew name. He made him a Magistrate of
the Territory, invited him to dine at Govern-
ment House, did his best in every way to
advance the fortunes of a man whom he re-
garded as being a most useful member of
the community. It is not to be doubted that
George Dudney, Esq., was an extremely use-
ful man. But he was not, on the whole, a
very different George Dudney from the per-
son of that name who had played the part of
second grave-digger thirty years before in
St. John’s Churchyard, lately the chaplain’s
bull-paddock.
It was a strange thing that he had never
made opportunity to exhume the contents
of the little grave he had dug beside that of
old Danny Desborougli. For some years his
official duties had kept him at the Ilawkes-
bury, and he was not much at Parramatta.
His fortunes advanced so rapidly, moreover,
that he could afford to keep this valuable
safe deposit unopened. Gradually lie had
come into a way of regarding it as an invest-
ment for his old age that need not be dis-
turbed until the eve of his return to Eng-
land. Then he had begun to forget all about
it, and only remembered its existence at long
intervals, with a comfortable sense that it
was quite safe where it was. By IS3O he
never thought of it at all. He was on the
best of terms with its real owner, and it was,
indeed, only when that gentleman, remember-
ing the bad old days at the beginning of the
century when he had been so infamously
robbed of his heirlooms, would remark upon
the improved condition of morality in the
colony, that he ever recollected that far-off
incident of his early career.
“Ah, well,” he would reflect upon these
rare occasions, “best let sleepin’ dogs lie.
Ole Dan can look after it for a bit longer.”
Major Denver—a florid, portly, somewhat
bibulous person, given to remarking how
“the service was going to the Devil, sir” —•
sat in the best parlor of the Woolpack Inn,
late one rainy winter afternoon in 1830,
drinking rum-punch in solitary state, when
there entered to him Mr. George Dudney,
dripping wet, and in great need of such
creature comfort as was sustaining and
elevating the Major. .
“Good afternoon, Meejor,” said the new-
comer in his most genteel manner, as he
removed liis saturated greatcoat, “and pray
liow does y’r honor find y’self in thishyer
cold weather?”
The Major blinked at him through the twi-
light of late afternoon, that was dimmed stili
further by the heavy window curtains and
his recent potations, and finally recognised
his brother magistrate.
“Ha! Good afternoon, Mr. Dudney. sir.
A very—-hie—devil of a day, is it not? Pray,
pull the bell-cord, and. we’ll have some hot
rum-punch—some more punch. Can’t take
too many precautions ’gainst such infernal
weather. You look half frozen, sir—by Gad,
half frozen ! Glad to see you, sir. I’ve been
a-sitting here this hour, and more, hoping
someone would come in. Pray, summon the
waiter, Mr. Dudney—l beg of you.”
Mr. Dudney did as he was requested, and
presently, with a steaming bowl between
them, these two early citizens of Parra-
matta, who had seen the place grow from a
convict camp into a respectable market town,
proceeded to ward off colds and rheums, and
other wintry physical evils, according to the
Major’s agreeable prescription.
They were a curiously-contrasting couple,
this rubicund old soldier and the lan tern-
jawed ex-convict, wolfish and predatory of
feature, lean of body as the other was podgy,
and furtive and cringing to a social superior
as Major Denver was bluff and open with
all men. The waiter had placed two candles
on the table, in tall brass candlesticks, had
made up the fire, and closed the door behind
him.
The price of wheat had been discussed, the
deterioration of the Army, the iniquities of
Governor Darling and the patriotism of Mr.
William Charles Wentworth and Dr. War-
dell, the militancy of Dr. Lang, and the
probable chances of steam communication
with Great Britain —as well as a consider-
able quantity of rum-punch—when, with
startling suddenness, Major Denver revived
memories in his companion which had long
been dormant. The Major’s speech was a
little thick, but his eyes were very bright,
and his manner jubilant, as he remarked,
apropos of nothing at all:
“Well, now, damme, Mis’r Dudney—mos’
’straordinary thing! D’ye know, I’ve re-
covered all that stuff—stuff wash stolen from
me here in 1800 —thirty years ago!”
Mr. Dudney looked at him vaguely for a
few moments ere he grasped what the Major
was talking about. Then a rush of recollec-
tion drove the color from his sallow features
unnaturally induced therein by the rum-
punch. He leaned forward and gripped the
edge of the table with both hands, staring
across the flickering candles at his com-
panion’s grinning, red, perspiring counten-
ance.
“What!” he gasped.
The Major nodded.
“Ycsli —by Gad ! Mos’ wunnerful thing,
Mis’r Dudney. Wunnerful! You remember
—long ago? Soon after Gov’nor King took
over Gov’ment. That plate an’ jewellery was
stolen from my quarters at the old barracks.
Very peculiar. Interpos—position o’ Prov’-
dence, I call it.”
“But what? How? Yes—l do remember
something of the affair, Meejor. Pray—when
—in what way did you find it?”
Mr. Dudney spoke a little huskily and
nervously. The Major chuckled.
“Come with me, and I’ll show you where
I found it. ’Twon’t take half an hour. Then
we’ll come back here and sup—make an
evening of it. Only found it this afternoon.


That Fourth Vital Point
Alemite-Zerk Ford Set
w
Ford owners should equip
their cars with the Alemite-
Zerk Lubrication System.
A complete set of fittings
and compressor gun costs
only a small amount of
money and saves costly
bearings. You can easily
install the fittings yourself
in place of the grease cups.
Makes Ford lubrication
easy and positive.
Alemite Transmission
Lubricant
ŵ
An entirely new type of lu-
bricant for gears and trans-
mission. Reduces friction
to a minimum. Means from
1 to 1 % more miles per gal-
lon of petrol by actual test.
More pep and power, long-
er life for gears. Two-finger
gear shifting in cold weath-
er because it does not hard-
en or “channel.” Made
without fillers. Have it put
into your transmission gear
boxes every 2500 miles and
say good-bye to rear-end
troubles.
Alemite Chassis Lubricant
AIEMITJ
mtbriotntZ
Made especially for use
with the Alemite System.
Will stand up under 3000
pounds pressure. Ordinary
greases break down at 200
pounds. Resists heat up to
400 degrees Fahrenheit.
Will lubricate properly
at 30 degrees below zero.
Equally valuable for farm
implements, motor-boats,
etc. In convenient 5-pound
tins.
Alemite Gas-co-lator
ẁ
A device for filteringthe pe-
trol as you drive. Takes
out all the water and dirt
particles that clog the car-
buretor. Removes the
cause of practically all
trouble from excessive car-
bon, oil dilution, pitted
valves, hard starting, stall-
ing. Sold on a 30-days trial.
Satisfaction, or money
cheerfully refunded.
Alemite Spring Protectors
ẃ
For good looks and easy
riding. Made to fit every
model and size of motor
car springs. Snug fitting,
nickel trimmed. They keep
out mud and grit, stop
squeaks and give added
tyre mileage. Last for
years. The surest preven-
tive against broken
springs.
Alemite Penetrating Oil
mk
■.j
A graphite 1 übricant de-
signed especially for use
where extreme penetrating
qualities are essential. Un-
excelled for lubricating mo-
tor car springs. Works in
between the spring leaves
without jacking up the car.
A perfec t lubri a nt wherever
a light oil is needed. Dis-
solves rust, prevents cor-
rosion. Speeds up dismant-
ling work by loosening
tight bolts and nuts. Sold
in pint and gallon tins, and
large drums. Can be sprayed
on with a special sprayer
equipment.
psfp
Is
OIL
2
W,
/
3 *
WATER
2?
4 ALEMITE
Read how Alemite Lubrication will
prevent 80% of your repair bills
You know about the importance of keeping
your engine supplied with oil, your tyres with
air and your radiator with water.
But what about the fourth point—the proper
lubrication of your chassis bearings?
Do you know that neglected or improper lubri-
cation of these 20 to 60 hard-working dust-ex-
posed chassis bearings is the cause of 80% of
repairs to motor cars? This is a fact that has
been proved conclusively by the records of
thousands of service stations.
Alemite System makes
lubrication easy
With the old-fashioned method of lubrication
by means of grease cups, the lubrication of
chassis bearings was so difficult and messy a
job that motorists neglected it. Today with
Alemite every chassis bearing can be lubri-
cated easily in a few minutes.
In addition, the old method did not insure
positive lubrication of the bearings, while the
Alemite method does. That’s why it is used to-
day on more than 10,000,000 motor cars.
Equip your car with Alemite
at small cost
If your car is already equipped with the Ale-
mite High Pressure Lubrication System, use it
every 500 miles, or have your service station
man do the work for you.
If your car is not equipped you can have Ale-
mite fittings installed in place of grease cups
quickly and at a surprisingly low cost. A fit-
ting that costs a few pennies will save a bear-
ing worth many pounds.
How Alemite works
To lubricate with Alemite you merely attach
the handy Alemite compressor gun to the fit-
ting on each bearing. A twist of the wrist forces
clean, fresh lubricant entirely through the bear-
ing, forcing out the worn-out, gritty grease at
the same time.
Use Alemite every 500 miles and cut down
your repair bills. You’ll also have an easier rid-
ing car, a more dependable and longer lived car.
If your regular service station does not carry
Alemite fittings or any of the Alemite Pro-
ducts shown at the left, write us and we will
see that you are supplied.
THE BASSICK MANUFACTURING CO.
DIVISION OF STEWART-WARNER
CHICAGO, U. S. A.
Australian Distributors
Bennett & Wood, Ltd. 284 Pitt St,, Sydney
E. A. Machin & Co., Corner Elizabeth and Beckett Streets, Melbourne
Cornell, Ltd Adelaide
C. Atkins & Co. . . . . . . . . . Perth
Motor Supplies, Ltd. . - Brisbane
©1927.T.8.M.C0.
Reg. U. S. Pat. Off*
High Pressure Lubrication
ITS SO EASY
to MARK LINEN With
ẅ
"A FEW STITCHES AND THEY'RE ON ”
Indispensable to every Household.
CASH’S NAMES are destinctive,
yet neat fadeless and durable.
The Prices are Moderate
12 doz. 7/6, 6 doz 5/-, 3 doz. 3/6
SOLD BY LEADING DRAPERS.
' &nt > Z(LCicuriA'
Actual Size, Style No. 6
Write for Name Style Circular to
J.&J. CASH LTD.
85 Cubitt Street,
Richmond, Melb.
if any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
w
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officej: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Needed For,Tfiaf Trip !
These One or all of these Marble
Ingenuities will help a lot
r OUr to make most any outing
trip more fun. Each is a real
wonder for the price. I
Madetogive |
service—not to '
sell cheap —
yet they
cost but a
s little.
ŵ
May
Save
Your Life
-this Compass.
Fastens to coat—
can’t lose it and'
it won’t err. The
Knife is a dandy —
keen, sturdy, handy
shape—great for dressing
game and camp use.
GreatAxe,That! .
—Marble’s Famous Safety Pocket\
Axe. Guard folds intohandle.
each handy, practical, staunch, trusty ’
m.
MARBLE’S
fIAME-fIITTER r r TTN
is the only all-’round arm of deadly pre-
cision and great killing power. Two
guns in one—upper (rifled) barrel for
.22, lowerfor.44 round bail or shot. 3
lengths. Folding stock. Shoulder hol-
ster free. Praised by guides and trap-
pers. WillsuityoutoaT. Sowillother
60 Marble Specialtie»-Shown in Catalog
Write for it. Sent postpaid.
MARBLE ARMS & MFG. COMPANY,
611 Delta Avenue, Gladstone, Mich., U.S.A.
Representatives : Moldep, Weber & Co., Ltd.
Box 1349 J, Sydney, N.S.W.
SbJSL#*
FOR MEN
Look for Name on Sole
The Panhard —
The intrinsic value of an
article depends very
largely upon those things
which are built into it,
and perhaps no other
item of apparel is more
difficult to appraise than
a shoe.
In the production of
" Marshall Shoes ” no-
thing is left to chance.
Every shoe must con-
form to a definite stand-
ard before it leaves the
factory. Your protection
is our guarantee behind
every pair.
A wide range of shapes and
styles, in a variety of leathers,
is carried in stock by us, and
may be immediately obtained
from any ''Marshall” dealer.
Many Styles from
32/6
POLISH
Preserve
AND
a/ WITH A \
SLA . .ll J
Z
£
JO-
c*
s®
300 Shines in
every Jar for-lfe
Also in Tubes and
Bottles for--rs
Legal Notice.
TO ALBERT ERIC LIONEL HODGENS.
formerly of Hutt Street, Adelaide, in
the State of South Australia, laborer: TAKE
NOTICE that a citation bearing date the 7th
day of January, 1925, has been issued out
of the Supreme Court of South Australia,
eiting you to appear and answer the petition
of John Cyril Murray, of Mount Bryan, in
the said State, pastoralist, praying for dis-
solution of his marriage with Kathleen Eliza
Murray. In default of your not appearing
you will not be allowed to address the Court,
and the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition proved in due course of law and
pronounce sentence thereon your absence
notwithstanding.
And TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that
for the purpose aforesaid you are within
twenty days from this publication to attend
in person or by your solicitor at the office
of the Master, Supreme Court, Victoria.
Square, Adelaide, and there to enter an
appearance as provided by the rules in that
behalf.
Dated this 20th day of February, 1925.
W. A. MAGAREY,
City Chambers, 10 Pirie Street
Adelaide, South Australia.
Petitioner’s Solicitor—
F. B. Mcßryde, Deputy-Master.


MANY YEARS HENCE
you will take up your ‘Swan* with
the same pleasurable expectancy
as on the day you first used it
YEARS of use will not diminish the thrill
of satisfaction and pleasure.
In the quiet dignity and perfect taste of
its finely'balanced vulcanite holder there is
evidence of masterful pen-production.
In the infinite care expended on the perfection
of its tempered 14 c<, gold nib —tipped with
natural osmi-iridium —will be found security
for a lifetime’s writing.
“ Swan ” Self-Filling Pens from 17/6 upward?.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD..
Head Office : Swan House, 133 & 135. Oxford St., London, W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Defiot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
“Swan ” Pens, “ Blackbird” Pens, “ Swan ” Ink and
‘ “ Fyne-l'oynt” Pencils.
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
PEN
>■**<
CL ose itnou) ~use it a lifetime
for
SWAN
PENS
ami
ALL PENS
G.E.3.
r
METAL CEILINGS^
Avoid all Ceiling troubles
by installing Wunderlich
Art Metal Ceilings—they do
not flake, crack, sag, discolour,
burn nor rot. Erected at really low
cost, they make your rooms dainty
and pleasing—the many designs are
so artistic. Your local supplier of
building materials will show you
some of the popular designs.
WUNDERLICH LTD.,
Baptist St., Redfern,
Sydney.
Write to-day for free
64-page Catalogue, M. 27
n
There’s a lantern in my gig. A breath of
air will give us an appetite for supper. Put
on your greatcoat again, and come with me.
Promise you I’ll surprise you. You’d never
believe it. King the bell, and I’ll order
supper from Tom the waiter, an' tell him to
get the lantern from the stables. You’ve
never heard of such a queer thing in all
your life, I’ll go bail. Yes, yes—you must
come with me. I’ve told no one else, as
yet. Only the workmen know —and Frank
Evans, the manager o’ the Bank o’ New
South Wales. Got the stuff in his safe.
Wunnerful! ’Straordinary ! Reg’lar romance !
All these years. Oh, yes—ye’d not forgive
yourself if you didn’t see for yourself, before
th’ affair becomes public. Come, now—
ye’ll come with me, won’t ye?”
“Oh, yes,” said Mr. Dudney, as he rose to
his feet and took up his wet overcoat. "Oh,
yes, I’ll come. Lord, yes,” lie muttered,
half to himself, his features twisting into a
malevolent grin—“it interests me. It does
indeed!”
Out from the front door of the Woolpack
—it stood where the Court House is now,
opposite to the present hotel —Major Denver,
lantern in hand, led the way into the dusk,
followed by the amazed and wondering Mr.
Dudney. They passed close by the twin
towers of St. John’s Church, and made their
way towards the foot of the ridge that
stretches east and west to the southward of
the town. The rain had temporarily ceased,
but the cold southerly wind flapped the
skirts of their greatcoats about their legs,
as the dim circle of light from the lantern,
in the slightly unsteady grasp of the Major,
danced indefinitely about them. lie explained
the manner of his strange recovery of the
long-lost plate and jewellery.
“You see, Mr. Dudney, it came to me, not
long ago, that I ain’t quite so young as I
used to be, and that Mrs. Denver was not so,
either. Time to be thinking, maybe, of
settling up one’s affairs, and making pre-
paration for the route to Kingdom Come.
I’m an old soldier, of course, and don’t much
care what becomes of my carcase once the
breath’s out of it, but ’tis different with the
women. My wife, Mrs. Denver, lias an idea
—common to most women, I think —that it
matters a good deal how one’s mortal remains
are disposed of after death. So she has been
urging me, from time to time, to secure a
burial allotment in the churchyard over yon-
der”—he flourished the lantern in the direc-
tion in which they were going—“and I
recently made up my mind to do so. Also,
upon Lydia’s, Mrs. Denver’s, further urging,
to have a family vault constructed in which
Hie and I and our children —'and their
children, too—might await the sounding of
the reveille— the Last Trump, you know.
Strange how much importance women set by
such nonsense, isn’t it, Mr. Dudney?”
“Yes, indeed —yes !” snarled his companion,
whose long shadow danced grotesquely across
the ring of light beside the Major’s shorter
and thicker one. “Very strange, Meejor.”
“So I went and saw Ben Burrows, the
sexton, about it, and Mrs. Denver and I,
assisted by Old Ben, we selected a position
for the site. There was a little difficulty.
My wife wants to lie somewhere near Mrs.
Commissary Makin —they were girls together,
you know—and the only vacant ground near
where Mrs. Makin is buried is alongside that
old fellow who used to look after Mr. Mars-
den’s cattle years ago. His headstone was
fallen down, but ’twas old Dan’s grave, sure
enough. Unfortunately, there wasn’t quite
enough room for the sort of table-top vault
we’d decided upon. So I applied to Mr.
Marsden —the chaplain’s getting a very old
man —for leave to dig Desborough up, and
plant him elsewhere. ‘Certainly, Major,’ he
says, ‘and I hope ye’ll be quite comfortable’
— ha, ha! So we dug Dan up, and put him in
another place, and to-day the two men I’d
hired for the job started to enlarge the hole
to the size of our vault. But, bless my soul
—here we are at the gate. Come in, and
I’ll tell you what we found, and show you
where we found it.”
They had arrived at the gate in the eastern
side of the high brick wall which had recently
been built about the burial ground, and the
Major lifted the latch, and led the way in-
side, and up the wide pathway running across
the quadrangle which the wall enclosed.
Many graves had been made since 1800,
and the dancing light of the lantern threw
fitfully into view numerous headstones, altar
tombs and flat memorial slabs. About the
middle of the churchyard they came to a
heap of yellow clay, beside which yawned a
deep hole some ten feet square. The Major
halted, and set the lantern upon the top of
the hummock of lieaped-up earth.
“There you are, Mr. Dudney—my final
barrack! Roomy and convenient, eh? I
expect we’ll be as comfortable in there as
Sam Marsden was polite enough to hope.
Well, ’twas here, beside old Dan Desborough’s
grave, that we came upon a wooden box, all
ratted and decayed, in which, to my vast
astonishment —as you may well believe —we
found the things that were stolen from me
so long ago. Well, now, what d’ye think o’
that, Mr. Dudney?”
The Major turned to look upon the face of
his companion, a little triumphant over the
astonishing event which he had been able
to relate to him, and was startled by the
expression of rage and fear which he beheld
in it, lit by the dim lantern light. Mr.
Dudney was clutching at his neck-cloth, as
if it choked him.
“Good Gad!” exclaimed the Major, as Mr.
Dudney glared at him. Presently the latter
screamed a curse.
“D —n it!” he howled, “’tis a swindle !
After all these years! An’ settin’ old Dan
to keep guard over it! ’Tis not to be borne.
Damme if ’tis. . Well, if I can’t enjoy th’
fruit o’ me providence, I’ll be d—d if you
w r ill!”
Mr. Dudney stooped quickly, and picked
up a shovel that was lying upon the mound
of clay.
By some chroniclers of the period the
murder of Major Denver was attributed to
the effects of the Woolpack’s rum-punch;
but that did not excuse Mr. Dudney, who
was duly hanged on the green outside the
old gaol, where Alfred Square is to-day, be-
tween the Chapel of the King’s School and
Church-street. Nobody thought of advanc-
ing a plea of justifiable disappointment at the
loss of the savings of years, as might very
well have been done.
Wind, Come for a Dance!
Come for a dance, wind!
Come for a dance!
I am sick of the dark little house, and of
people,
And the prim little bell that rings out from
the steeple;
I am sick of the straight little streets of the
town,
And the mean little windows with lids
battened down,
And the folk that look under their eyelids
askance.
So come for a dance, wind,
Come for a dance!
Soon we’d be skimming the gold-dusted
hollow.
My skirts all a-flying, for no one shoulu
follow
(None but the sound of our footsteps should
follow),
None but the eyes of the wild things should
glance!
Have a run!
Have a race!
There is sun
In .each place!
Come for a dance, wind,
Come for a dance!
Oh, come along, sun,
Come along, too !
We’ll never draw breath while the laughing
day lingers,
So give me a hold of your long, lacy fingers,
And let us go weaving a delicate maze
Under the willows where yellow-bobs blaze,
And the white geese go walking so solemnly
through.
So come along, sun,
Come along, t®o !
You will hear me run shouting, and pealing
my laughter,
With only the voice of the wind to come
after
(The low, chuckling voice of the wind to
come after)
My feet on the speckled pin-cushions of blue!
IIccl and toe
Tapping on!
Let me go !
Look, I’m gone!
So come along, sun,
Come along, too !
Come along, everything!
Come along, quick!
Come, little curled leaves and the seeds of
thin grasses,
Frilled petals that drift in the cool of dim
passes,
Little wasps, furry rabbits, and fat, lazy
bees.
And bold-eyed grey thrushes beneath the
dark trees!
Come whirling and dancing, each blade and
each stick!
Come along, everything!
Come along quick!
White water-lilies and silvery runnels,
And minnows all darting through fern-
fronded tunnels.
Disporting and gliding through shadowy*
tunnels,
With many a brave little flirt and a flick.
Happy child!
I have grown
With the wild
For my own!
So come along, everything!
Come along quick!
Oh, where shall we go?
Just anywhere!
I know a far place where the pink, fallen
roses
Lie drifted deep, deep in deserted old closes,
And a dark, dreaming place, where the sad,
secret pines
Build great, gloomy corridors, lines upon
lines.
And a smell as of incense hangs sweet on the
air.
Oh, where shall we go?
Just anywhere!
Over the slopes, and their brown, idle
fallows.
Stretch out honey-golden, the thin netted
shallows
(The birds winging wliitely, skim over the
shallows),
And something is calling me, calling me
there.
Happy sky!
Happy day!
Happy I!
Come away!
Oh, where shall we go?
Anywhere! Anywhere !
MYRA MORRIS.
“Gougcr”: There are some queer old
battlers in the wmrld. One such scratches
in a York Peninsula gully, 300 miles from
the nearest town. He buys absolutely
nothing, for the simple reason that there is
no transport. He is more cunning than a
blackfellow at setting snares for birds a/id
animals. His bread is made out of flour
which he grinds from zamia nuts, and he
finds abundance of wild honey to spread on
the bread. His potatoes are yams, his cab-
bage the tender shoots of the cabbage-tree
palm, his onions the native onion of the
swamps. He might have landed with Cap-
tain Cook, he looks so old. But withal he
can do a very decent day’s work, has won-
derful eyesight and hearing, and a strong and
peppery temper. Yet the old fellow could
buy his limousine if he wished. His many
years’ accumulations of golden pellets are
rammed into lumps of clay like cricket-balls.
The ancient’s proud boast is that no man
can shove a pin’s-point into clay between
any of the pellets in his 12 golden spheres.
The weight of each of these made my heart
throb. Like an ass, I once asked him why
lie did not go to the cities with his hoard.
He replied that he would be like a fish out
of water. Where he was, he was boss of all
he surveyed and very happy. Attaining
wealth was only a partial happiness and
often meant an early grave. For himself
he collected his gold witlic«t worry; the
search was a pleasure and an incentive, and
he could keep his treasure when he found it.


Reading This May Save
You From Buying
An Obsolete Motor Car
Whippet Continues
Its Engineering
Leadership
Economy —Whippet holds A.A.A.
Coast-to-Cpast Economy Record.
!*arge 4 -Wheel Brakes— First
light car to introduce this safety
feature.
Easier Parking— Turns in a 17-
t'oot radius. Parks in 14 feet of curb
space.
Silent Timing Chain For
juiet engine operation, as on ex-
pensive cars.
Engine —Develops more power for
its size than any other light car engine.
Pc
r
'»»»»
m
dll
Low Centre ©f Gravity
Makes for smoother riding and
greater security.
\
L
Full-Vision Oodles —— Narrow
front pillars remove the “blind spot”
hazard.
m
-a.
More Leg Room More than
in any other car at or near its
price.
Proven by 200,000 Owners
EVERY recent new car announcement serves to emphasize the Overland
Whippet’s leadership in light car design. Introduced in 1926 the Whip-
pet was the first car in the lower price range to offer its remarkable com-
bination of fine-car advantages.
Now, two years later, developments indicate that other manufacturers are
attempting to follow Whippet’s lead.
Four-wheel brakes and some of the other advantages pioneered by Whippet in
the light car field are now appearing in the design of other light cars, but
only in the Whippet do you get ALL the advantages of modern design, unu-
sual economy, force-feed lubrication, silent timing chain, LARGE four-wheel
brakes, low centre of gravity, modern appearance, speed, comfort, and a hun-
dred details of quality construction. These quality specifications mean long
life to the car and higher resale value.
The Overland Whippet now carries the enthusiastic endorsement of more
than 200,000 owners who have put this modern car to the acid test of more
than 500,000,000 miles of service. Such proven superiority makes the Whip-
pet, in its present perfection, the logical choice of everyone who investigates
carefully current motor car values.
It is important to remember that other manufacturers are only starting to fol-
low the already proven Whippet specifications. Their new cars have still to go
through a long experimental period of customer use before their real worth
can be ascertained.
You can buy the Whippet now—assured of its performance and its lasting
qualities assured that a year from now it will still be the most modern car
in the field.
If you have never ridden in one of these modern cars, come in today for a
trial drive. A delightful new motoring experience awaits you.
Touring
Coach
Sedan
O V ERL AND
iDDet
Roadster
Coupe
Cabriolet-
Coupe
Overland Sydney, Ltd., 148-150 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Overland Victoria Pty., Ltd., 117-121 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
Overland South Australia, Ltd., 236-258 Victoria Square, ADELAIDE.
E. G. Eager & Son, Ltd.- Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Adams Motors, Ltd., 442-446 Murray Street, PERTH.
V I L L Y S ■ 0 V E R L A N D * FINE . MOTOR
CARS


for a good
/ night's rest
*y take
it will ensure
a good days
work
In 4 sizes
ofall Chemists
and Stores
Who Saves the Money You Earn?
Do you?
Somebody must, for money doesn’t disappear into thin air. Some of
your money will be saved wisely; some of it will be spent wisely.
By whom? By you?
If you earned it, you’ve got first call on it What use are you making
of that privilege?
Think it over, and act now—open a Savings Account, and save wisely
that you may do your own wise spending later on.
ComiMiwealtb Sank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
HULL
Britain’s Third and
Cheapest Port.
The Natural Gateway
to a large Industrial Area of
12 MILLION PEOPLE.
11 DOCKS
Owned and Served by the
London 8 North-Eastern Railway
MODERN EQUIPMENT,
RAPID HANDLING,
LOW CHARGES.
EXPRESS GOODS TRAINS
to all parts of the country.
Regular Fast Steamship Services to the
Continent of Europe for Re-Export Trade.
AUSTRALIAN SHIPPERS are invited to
inquire for further information at the offices
of Messrs. BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney; and Branches.
Agents throughout New Zealand:
J. A. REDPATH & SONS, LTD.
L.N.E.R.
Largest Dock-owning Railway
in the World.
THE REVOLT OF BALDIN.
BY
S. STEDMAN.
[Another of Mr. Stedman’s vivid sketches of life
in Mongolia.]
BALDIN was nineteen years old when he
took his first wife with him to his urta
from the home of her father. She was
a strong, healthy woman, and his life was
full of hopes. Sons he wanted; through
them honor would come his way. For three
years he waited; but his wife remained
childless, and great was his disappointment.
One day his wife spoke to him thus:“Bal-
din, thou art a good husband and deservest
more of a wife than I can give thee. The
gods have not blest me with the joy of giving
thee a son —nay, not even a daughter—-and I
know how much this grieves thee. Now
thou must take another wife.”
Long did Baldin ponder over the matter.
At last he accepted the wise counsel of his
wife, and a second wife came to live in his
urta. She was young and intolerant, and
treated the first wife with great contempt.
But the other wife did not resent it; for
of what value is a woman that bears no
children?
But Baldin remained kind and generous
towards his first wife, to the woman who
shared his early happiness. He was drawn
to her as a child to the breast of its mother,
and when, after a while, fear of failure
began again to gnaw at his heart, his first
wife .consoled him and advised him to con-
sult a lama.
Baldin travelled to a distant monastery,
taking liis wives with him. There they all
prayed, and he made offerings of much silver,
sheep and cattle, and Was promised rich re-
wards. But there was one thing only Bal
din desired, and that was a son. So great
was his desire that he even promised to dedi-
cate him to the service of Buddha. For it is
hard for one to live with the curse of child-
lessness upon him.
They journeyed back in great hope, dis-
tributing alms to minstrels and making rich
presents to lamas. Alas! as barren as the
great Gobe desert remained his urta; no
childish- laughter disturbed its heavy silence.
Then Baldin consulted many other lamas,
and choosing his fastest horses and fattest
rams and best oxen he dedicated them to the
gods. Since then these animals have mul-
tiplied beyond reckoning. Much silver could
Baldin have got for them, but he would not
sell them, for they belonged to the gods. All
this he gave to appease their wrath; but
it was in vain. He became worried. No
longer could he blame the wives; he suffered
from the bitter knowledge that he could
not fully realise his manhood.
Again his first wife spoke, advising him
to take yet another wife. But Baldin re-
fused, for he considered it sinful to deprive
a woman of motherhood.
Unexpectedly a stranger came to the urta.
He had travelled far on his camel, and was
weary and needed rest. Baldin led him
inside, where he was given meat to eat and
milk to drink. Baldin shared his pipe with
him as a token of friendship, but when'night
fell the newcomer was left to sleep alone.
The stranger was greatly surprised and dis-
appointed. He felt the need of a woman’s
companionship after his long journey.
Late into the night Baldin sat outside, his
legs crossed under him, his face burning with
shame for such mean conduct; but he could
not bring himself to share his wife. He was
afraid to have a son that, he would know
to be not his.
For three nights the stranger remained
under Baldin’s roof, and on the third the
first wife stole in and remained with
him till dawn. Her wish was not to be
unfaithful to her husband, but to bring
him happiness.
Nine months later Baldin became a
father, though not of a son. He was dis-
appointed, but felt happy, for now there
was hope. But his- wife knew otherwise,
and felt remorseful. - She knew that to
realise her husband’s hopes she would have
to deceive him again, and this she would
not do. Soon the strain upon her conscience
became too great, and she broke down and
her body was taken to the hill.
Even then the gods had not relented.
More sorrow was inflicted upon him, for
the little daughter fell ill and presently
died. All these misfortunes Baldin bore
stoically, as befits a man. But soon neigh-
bors commenced to avoid his urta, which
they whispered among themselves was
accursed, and the isolation worried him.
His second wife, too, lived in fear and
amidst unhealthy forebodings, with no
heart to attend to her duties.
Then Baldin decided to tempt' the fates
once more; but instead of a lama he called
a shaman: a wizard was to accomplish what
the priest had failed to do.
The loud beating of the tambourine inside
the urta warned people to keep away while
the communion with the invisible spirits was
in progress. For a long- time the shaman
made a great noise. Baldin sat outside
trembling slightly, for this indeed was the
last resource. Should this fail, all hope of
happiness must be abandoned.
The sounds ceased, and Baldin crept
nearer and looked in through an opening.
The shaman was dancing around the fire.
Faster and faster grew the pace and louder
became his incantations, which he shrieked
out in the ancient Mongolian tongue. Baldin
saw his wife sitting near the fire, frightened,
listening to the strange words of the man.
The dance continued until the shaman fell
exhausted. He lay on the mat breathing
heavily, large drops of sweat covering his
face. Slowly he recovered and sat up.
Then he spoke.
“To accomplish that which I promised I
have done much; yet one thing more is
possible.”
“I)o everything thou canst,” answered the
womans “only succeed.”
“Thou art right,” said the shaman.
“Nature made me a man, and thou art a
woman. If my magic fails, my manhood
may succeed; and what matters to thee
which way happiness comes !”
He approached her, but she, apprehending
his purpose, ran out of the urta.
Baldin deeply pitied his wife; and, after
three months lie decided to set her free. A
third of all his possessions, save the animals
which were dedicated to the gods, he gave
to her, and personally conducted her to
the home of her father. He was sorry to
part with her, and she, too, was loath to go;
but he did it for her sake, and she went
because he wished it.
After that Baldin lived alone; without
aim, without hope; spending his time in
tending his flocks, hunting or meditating;
avoiding the company of men even as they
shunned his. It was a bitter life until
age cooled his blood and took the edge off
liis desires.
At seventy-four he found the days passing
slowly, and he felt weary. Coining out in
the morning, his eyes would stray towards
the distant hills, which lie knew and loved ;
but he could sec them no more. Sitting in
the sun, he would faintly hear the clatter of
horses’ hoofs, and out of space somebody
would bid him, “Mendoo!” And he would
answer, “Mendoomar!” quietly, for there
wms no need to shoutthe passer-by never
slackened the pace of his horse, never
stopped to receive the greeting.
Gradually he was deprived of everything
that to him constituted life, and he knew
nothing but sorrow. He saw himself as the
A LIGHTNING SKETCH.
object the gods’ grim joke. For years he
had silently accepted his fate,- but now his
anger would no longer be suppressed.
“Who is responsible for my misfortunes?”
he asked, and found but one answer: “The
gods!”
Momentarily he felt frightened, for to find
fault with the gods is heresy; even to ques-
tion them is sinful. But Baldin could not
overcome his desire for vengeance ; it super-
seded reason, fear and duty. He felt an
overwhelming wish to do something fear-
ful ; to cause suffering to the gods, if possible
to defy them, laugh at them. But how could
a man take vengeance upon his gods?
In great agitation he walked about in
the open steppes, trampling heavily on the
green grass, as though finding pleasure in
laying it flat on the earth. His wrath was
boundless, and the realisation of his im-
potence intensified his anger. Crossing a
hillock, he came upon some of his cattle
grazing, and near him stood, head raised, a
magnificent black bull. It was the gods’
bull, a descendant of one he had given to
the Burchan many years before.
The bull looked at him, and suddenly
Baldin conceived an idea for his revenge.
As fast as liis strength permitted, he ran
to the urta, and, seizing an old gun, hurried
back. He would shoot this animal; he would
PERSONAL PLUMBING.
WIFE (to nagging husband): “I wish to
goodness you’d putty up that crack in
your voice, and let me go to sleep!”
take back the present the gods had accepted
under false pretence; he would challenge
them and repay them with scorn !
Again before him appeared the black bull,
and he put the gun to his shoulder. A
thrill ran through his old body; his blood
tingled and his hands trembled violently.
He took aim slowly; and the bull stood beat-
ing the ground with his hoofs, as if getting
ready for battle.
Its movements interfered with his aim,
so that when he at last fired the bullet
struck the animal in the shoulder, doing no
mortal hurt, but tearing away a piece of
skin and flesh. The bull uttered a wild cry,
and the next moment rushed at the old man.
The sharp, powerful horns dug into Baldin’s
flesh. He was lifted into the air and swung
round.
Later, Baldin opened his eyes, but there
was no light in them, and lie felt no regret.
His anger was spent, and so was life.
He felt peaceful and happy at the approach-
ing end. His lips murmured a prayer ; he
was glad the gods had shown him his place.
Three days later his bones were found.
The flesh had been devoured by wolves or
dogs, wherein was proof that the gods had
forgiven him.
S. STEDMAN.
On a Higher Plane.
GERTIE and I are the type of superior
person whom Tlieosophists immedi-
ately recognise as being on a higher
plane. When I was first elevated to it by
one of the cult who recognised my spiritual
attainments on sight, I felt giddy and light-
headed for some time. However, after meet-
ing Gertie and learning that she and I occu-
pied the same plane, I did not feel so lonely.
It really is a dreadful thing to suddenly
realise you have been separated from millions
of your fellow creatures by aeons of spiritual
development.
Of course anyone who is highly developed
spiritually cannot help looking down as from
a vast height on the miserable creatures
just emerging from the purely material.
Thank goodness I did that so many thou-
sands of years ago that I have a very dim
remembrance of it. And unless you do recol-
lect something about it you cannot expect
to entertain th'e right degree of sympathy
and toleration for those who are still strug-
gling in the quagmire of undevelopment.
Gertie and I have a keen sense of humor,
and that is a distinct indication that one has
“emerged.” We obtained no end of amuse-
ment —kindly amusement, mind you—in
watching people in trams, trains, ferries
and lounges. We could tell (for instance) at
a glance precisely what anyone was thinking.
We could sense if a man was a gross feeder
and had a fondness for pork or roast beef
very underdone. It was not only written in
his face but indisputably evident from his
“emanations.” Around each of us is a dis-
tinct atmosphere or aura. The mere money-
grubber, who cares nothing for Art or Music
or the refinements of life —the mental refine-
ments, I mean—is extremely easy to detect.
By exercising our powers of observation we
could even tell how many times a week a
man beat his wife.
Of course all this was very painful to such
sensitive natures as Gertie’s and mine. But,
then, one cannot reach the higher plane
without some drawbacks. We had to laugh
sometimes as a relief to sheer soul-suffering.
How we loved each other. Gertie and I!
Our affection was not a matter of time, such
as ordinary people understand it. We had
been soul-mates when Abraham, as an
urchin, ran about the suburbs of Ur and
pinched pomegranates from the bazaar stalls.
You'll therefore admit ours was no mere
acquaintance. Occasionally I would be
dubious about our past lives when I observed
Gertie studying the countenance of some
handsome lounge-lizard whose left eyelid had
a propensity to droop; but Gertie assured
me no forces could ever separate us, especi-
ally those of the earth-bound variety, and I
felt content.
One afternoon Gertie and I were sipping a
creme de menthe after enjoying a very
nice lunch together, when I noticed a big
fleshy man, dressed in a loud check suit, who
sat just opposite, was taking unusual interest
in Gertie’s stockings. She wore her dresses
rather on the short side.
Gertie noticed it—in fact, we all noticed
it together—but Gertie saved the situation
by observing that the admirer of her hose - '
Avas a gross-looking man.
“Gross” hardly described him. Spiritu-
ally he was as far advanced as an anthropoid
ape. Ilis features were of the type on which
you could straighten out bent French nails.
Ilis lips were thick and loose, his brow low
and menacing, and his eyebrows thick and
bushy. Undoubtedly he liked his meat under-
done.
“What a hateful type!” I observed.
Gertie agreed and studied his character with
renewed interest. He did not seem to mind a
bit.
From the corner of my eye I noticed a
smile of amusement pass over Gertie’s spir-
itual countenance, to which the observed re-
sponded with a slight depression of the
eyelid.
Just at that moment Gertie’s friend Clara
came into the lounge and actually greeted
this low person, and before any of us had
realised what was happening, we were being
introduced.
When we parted company late that night
after accepting his invitation to dinner,
Gertie looked animated and Clara rather de-
spondent, while I climbed out of sight to
that superior plane where the spiritual can
always take refuge.
Gertie and I did not see a great deal of
each other after this episode. She was en-
gaged in close study for several weeks, as
she was discontented with her existing plane
and desired to climb into a still higher one.
I missed her dreadfully, but she reminded
me over the telephone that we had to make
sacrifices if we really desired to develop.
Disillusion came, however, when I saw her,
quite by accident, in a secluded spot snug-
gled up with the gentleman I mentioned last,
in the back seat of a motor-car, drawing in-
spiration from the slowly fading sunset.
When I met her again they had been
married several weeks. He took Clara on
one side for half an hour while I exchanged
ideas with Gertie. She rapturously described
her beautiful home at Randwick and her new
Rolls-Royce car, but informed me with tears
in her eyes that her soul and mins could
never be separated.
“He’s not on the same plane as I am, and
you are, dear, so what does it matter? Our
spirits can always commune together with-
out being interrupted.”
There’s a great deal of comfort in that
thought, but considerably more in the touch
of Clara’s cool hand when I am feeling too
tired to scramble up to Gertie’s spiritual
heights. And, after all, Clara wears her
dresses a l-sasonabje length and does not
study men’s features to probe the depths of
their souls.
Some day I shall, ask Clara to marry me,
even though Gertie has described her as a
very ordinary, unintelligent and poorly-
developed person—spiritually, of course.
T. S. GURR.
Home.
I’m lonely for England;
Little grey old England,
England in December with the snow about
her feet!
Sunny golden hours.
Jacaranda flowers—
I would give them oh so gladly for a foggy
London street!
Gum-tree tops a-swaying.
Children’s voices playing,
England just a story that they almost now
forget!
Down the bush track winding,
Past all hope of finding,
I can see the London pavement where my
childish feet .were set.
QUEENSLAND.
NINA MARDEL FLEMING.


Bmikino', Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital .. .. non non
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3’305 130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 .. £18|36g!297
7 Prask' m S| v Ma " K SiiKMiOH. K.8.E., Chairman;
Yauwood; H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.;
Georgb J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L F Rut-
ledge; James Kell. *
Ge neral Manager: C. M. C. Shannon,
hi,’An Inspector: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SIDNEY (Corner George and King
, Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New Soutli Wales.
T , . JUt ISB A Nl5 (264 Queen Street).
Blanches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
.. Queensland.
M A r :!i OI,RNK (325 Collins Street).
PI.’HT’H '\ r ;, A ! DE < ss ,tun,Ue Street).
L (/S st - Cf'o'ge's Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
. London Directors;
Aaci.t a DDS f>^ AlI, ? AI 1 N ’ AlF,tE,> Shepherd, James.Tuke.
tents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WIN YARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH’
347 COLLINS STREET.
Shares .*.* .** " fgJ'JoJ !
GRANTS DRAFTS or ‘ Austral ’a, New
RECEIVES DEPOSITS •* lnlere «
““ *” <**“' ™»> BuklwtalS?
Australian Mutual
Head Office: n •< «
87PittSt.,Sydney Y fOViflCtttSociety
mLi'S'L 1 "" 1 Most Successful
lfe ° (f ' ce 1,1 «ie British Empire,
Bistubutes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
£2,887,200
Yield",! Di ßl buttd for si,, S le year 1926
Poliefos oC over 1 ' 8 ' 7 . Additi °' lS to
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income
£4,893,000
£63,600,000
£9,600,000
Ihe Society transacts livery Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPKRLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
HJSAD OFFICE :
GEORGE 6 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL, - de1,000,000.
Fire Insurances nfected on a ii classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni
. ture. &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks ou Wool, Merchandise,
" Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution
A. C. Dawson. Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
M
if «l a u R u P tur ed write at once for full
of this Modern Invention. Lieht cool
fortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders
particular!
and coni'
AGENTS: GUY ATT & CO,, k
dept, b, st * 1863,
Surgical Instrument and Truss Makers,
257 a GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Bridge Street), SYDNEY.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most
Published by “The Bulletin/’ 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum, '
Shipping, etc.
D
*
IP
i
Igrw?,
'•SKK.
ImmiiiEg^ov.
CO
111 "II
fav
/"■P”
TCP
UNITED STATES
& EURO PE
NIAGARA ..
AORANGI ...
MAKURA ...
TAHITI
13,415 tons, Mar. 8 )
17,491 tons, Apl. 5 j
8,075 toffs, Mar. 22 1
7,898 tons, Apl. 19 j
From Sydney for Auckland, Fiji, Honolulu, Victoria
and Vancouver.
From Sydney for Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and
San Francisco.
UNION S.S. CO.,
MACDONALD,
And Fortnightly thereafter.
S }-' g\ " nd W i U jr. Melbourne.
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
HAMILTON & CO.
Ql
jpj^LRSIONS
JAVA (The Beautiful).
Monthly Sailings by the MARELLA (T. 7475) and
MALABAR (T. 5000), via the Picturesque Torres Strait.
Travel via JAVA to EUROPE, the Smooth-Water Route.
South Sea Island Tours
Regular Sailings from Sydney.
New Guinea ss - montoro,
Visiting 16 Island Ports.
Solomons
S.S. MATARAM,
Visiting 24 Island
Ports.
(r
Full Particulars from-
BURNS, PHILP & COY. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .. ..
RESERVE LIABILITY ..
N£W SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
£7,481,960
5,650,000
7,481,960
£20,613,920)
Directors:
Thomas Buekland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie. ESq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
r*.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esa.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; General Manager: OSCAR LINE**
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 XhreadDeedle Street, E.C V
514 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand Fiji Lamia
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world’
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Rills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world. ° 8
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price ------- 3d.
_____ Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
( transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and ether
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunburv, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Steamer.
Leaves 1 Leaves i
Sydney. J.N.elbourne) S - vdney A^nt »-
katoomba.
(All Ports
inc. Albany).
ORUNGAL..
(Melb. only).
BOMBALA. .
(Melb. only).
KANOWNA.
(All Ports).
KAROOLA. .
(All Ports).
ORMISTON.
(Melb. only).
DIMBOOLA.
(All Ports).
CANBERRA..'
(Melb. only).t
Sat.,
March 10.
Sat.,
March 10.
Sat.,
March 17.
Sat.,
March 17.
Sat.,
March 24.
Sat.,
March 24.
Fri.,
March 30.
Sat.,
Alarch 31.
Wed.,
March 14
Wed.,
March 21
Wed.,
March 28.
Tues.,
April 3.
I Mcll I wraith,
McEacharn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Keinbla Big.
58 Margaret St.
lluddart, Parker,
Ltd., 10 Bridge St
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Melbourne S.S.Co.,
Ltd.,Clarenceand
Barrack Sts.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Keinbla Big.
58 Margaret St.
MACKAY (no cargo for Mackay),
IUWNbVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
at lownsville for outports).
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kembla Big.
58 Margaret St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kembla Big.,.
58 Margaret St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd-
-7 Bridge Street.
have a new holiday in
HAWAII
52*/°® next tri P to Europe or America
", 1 r^ 0l ‘ t extra expense. Tropical scenery, frag-
Wl,° We 'r* USI ; lOUS fruits > haunting melody
honrrf ! n° n it pa ™ s ‘ Outrigger canoeing, surf-
board nding, golfing, motoring, and all out-
Volr' ; i'rf ! ° rtS th f y< i ar round ' I, )ter-islanri cruises.
V olcamc spectacles. Or take a round trip
*?»*%"*. 8 weeks or less for about £lOO to-
too all expenses, allowing 3 to 4 weeks in
hotePj ll B da T at Suva or Pa S° Pa&o. Good
hotels with meals 12/- to £3 per day. Ask
TnnHrfß ° r tr, Y el agency or write Hawaii
lounst Bureau, Dept. 26, Box-241-D GPO
pnpwf' N '£' W -' f ° r beautifully colored booklet!
enclosing this advertisement.
ON YOUR NEXT TRIP* INCLUDE
HAWAII.
South Africa ap.d England
ABERDEEN UNE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE ST/aR LINE
A combined service offering unequalled
at moderate fates.
♦Nestor , 15,000 tons, March 20
feS-V 18 - 300 ” March 20
iThemistoclef; n 500
•Ulysses 15 ; 00 0
.Euripides.,. ~15,000
♦Anchises „•. . * 10, 000
| Sue vie . . . ,-12,500
♦Ascamucy. v . j 10,000
f Demosthenes: 11,500
. . 12,500
♦First clr.ss only. tFirst arid Third class.
+“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars
8 Co., Ltd.
March .27
April B 3
April 21
June 4
June 26
July 23
Sept. 10
Oct. 2
aspply
to
I Joint
_ \ joinx
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd. J AgonU
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE*
ONE CLASS ONLY., s'
To LONDON, via Durban
Tons.
BALUANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
. BARADINE .. 13,100
l!BENDIGO .. 13,100
BEL'I’ANA ,
BENALLA
BOUDA .
BEURIMA /
Tons.
11,100
11,100
11,100
11,100
t Fares, from £37 to £45 tr, England, and
■ from £2l to £27 toy^out 7 n /Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, V'/ATT. SANDERSON.
Tel. 86/01.-2-3. 9 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & S/ .nderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanuers? n & Co., Melbourne.
_ Co.. Ltd.. Adelaide.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Thvv>r , ? h Tickets to Brisbane issued.
5.5. ORAIf a—-Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Bnstan' , Monday afternoon.
5.5, Wr .LLONGBAR— Tuesday evenings
passengers.' due Brisbane TSiursday afternoon.
Both ir jssels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE: J
FARES 4
Stea’ , ner an( j Motor throughout, Single, 7£A
"garner and Motor throughout, Return, .-'l'J/5/-
5 r earner and First-circs Rail, Single,„ ki/\&h
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, f£3/8/-
NORTH COAS r f S. N. CO., IITD.,
Passengers? Booking Office: i,
TOURIST BURE AU, CHALLIS HOjUSE",
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Age/nts: Burns, Philp amd Co . Ltd.
Hu d (fa r t ParlterLiM
Magnl floeut
Fast Pass anger
Stean.ships
STEAME/RS TO NHW ZEALAND—ReguIar g rilings
from Syt'lney to Netv Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particuls rs to be c fc>tained on application.
STEAMF;RS TO TAf JMANIA—From Sydney to {Hobart
and vide versa as per daily papers. Betwea n Mel-
bourne ' and Launces ton as per daily papers.
ForfuU particulars a Jpply HUDDART PARKER LI MITEO
Coiling Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydf iey.


Girls! Shampoo your Hair
Wth 'Rexona S©ap
Makes The Hair Bright Soft & Silky
To shampoo or.wash the hair with Rexona Soap is an easy task, but the results are start-
snnfe ha " 1" , s . uch , a beautiful condition, the scalp perfectly clean and whole-
some. The hair becomes light and fluffy, waving about the face in abundance, as beautiful
hair should always appear. Rexona Soap leaves a delicate perfume, invigorating the roots
halr > which prevents greyness. A few shampoos with Rexona Soap effectively removes
eveiy tiace of dandruff or loose and falling hair. Ladies who use it for the'hair sav that
Rexona Soap is far better than any of the so-called hair tonics. y
Miss MADGE ELLIOTT,
a beautiful Rexona Girl,
writes: “Rexona Soap is
worth its weight in gold
for the skin and hair.”
Hex ena
Soap
Sor fifea/lh asu)
m
V'/A
m
m
SVSUJ
I
II-
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and
mailed to you the day they are made.
10/-, 12/6, 20/- & 30/-
Post free to any address
in Australia,
Send for Catalogue, illustrated
with Reproductions of our
Confectionery, in color.
\'l
o
-
,o
What a lovely
Gift!"
162-166 PITT STREET,
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE & KING STREETS,
CASTLE REAGH STREET
(NEXT THEATRE ROYAL),
I SYDNEY.
The Dawn Watch.
SHE watches from within the twilit haze
Of dawn, ere yet the sun, her grand-
sire, spills
His benison on plain and misty hills,
Or braids the city’s silhouetted greys
With crimson hem: she watches all our
ways,
And so has watched and waited down the
years
With patient full foreknowledge that our
tears
Are but a needed tutelage and, at the last
Through us, when we are merged with all
the past,
Be will arrive, our Singer, and will tell
Australia’s meaning Meantime, all is
well!
She watches, as when Wentworth caught a
hint,
And, swaddled in the natal robes of song,
Foretold in measured rhetoric but strong,
The glory of our doom. With sheerer dint
Of singing urge came Ilarpur, and a glint
Of sunlight sparkles through his halting
lines,
That tells of one whose troubled soul divines
A splendlier muse. Then Kendall, poet true,
Marbling his mellow flute notes; Gordon,
too;
All these felt in them somewhat of her
spell
And watched his coming. ... Meantime, all
is well!
She watches—and when Victor Haley died,
And fain had winged him to some Celtic vale
Of moon-enamored twilight, faery pale,
She called him lierwards, bidding him abide
In rich content her sunlit self beside.
Her eyes it. was that lighted Lawson’s way
And held him, all life’s bufferings despite,
The man he was, staunch to the core and
white,
Making at last his mateship manifest.
For us ’tis well—for Lawson it was best!
She watches—and we few who still remain,
Tossed in a welter of discordant days,
Unskilled as to the whithering of our ways,
We still sing each his song in each his pain,
True to her urge, howe’er the fruitage vain.
We, even we, at moments glimpse her face;
The glory of her loveliness, the grace
Of her inspiring presence stings our sight;
McCrae, O’Dowd and Quinn —till yestre’en
David Wright—
We all at last will seek her easeful spell
And wait his coming.... Meantime, all is
well!
VICTOBIA.
BERNARD INGLEBY.
My Gracious Silence.
half a bushel, and crushed,
\_y please, Mr. Adams. It will do for
the fowls as well.”
Marcus Adams, stooping over the scales,
raised his head. He was a short man with
greying hair, and his spectacles were pushed
up his forehead. This, with his grocer’s
apron tied tightly round his rather fat middle,
gave him a queer, foreshortened appearance.
He frowned.
“Half a bushel won’t last you long, Mister
Terence.”
“Long enough,” said Terence laconically,
sucking his pipe. “I’m going to eat the
fowls, and I’m going to sell tihe cob.”
“Sell the cob!”
Marcus looked at him in astonishment.
Sell the cob.! Mister Terence and his cob
were part of the scenery at Green Spring.
Away there in the ranges, sitting motion-
less and lost in thought or cantering easily
along the road, he was pointed out to the
tourists as Mister Terence, the writer. They
did it with pride; he was tlheir Mister
1 erence; their local celebrity; and his cob
was just as necessary as himself. Sell the
cob!
Marcus A.dams straightened, and his glasses
slid down off his forehead. “Mister Terence,”
he said directly, “excuse me, but are ye short
of money?”
“To be perfectly candid, broke,” said
1 erence.
, With the book an’ all?” said Marcus un-
believingly. He had always looked on Mister
1 erence as a gentleman of means. Had he
not written “The Failure,” the novel which,
paradoxically, had been such a success? It
was about a woman who had been a success
materially, but a failure morally. All the
women said Mister Terence had been crossed
, e; and the y had made up all sorts of
ridiculous stories about him. It added to
lerence’s popularity; he had quite a vogue
He was young, good to look upon, mysterious
ana melancholy. What more could one
desire! But that was in the past.
Terence shifted his pipe to the other side
of his mouth. Oh, the book’s out of fashion
now, Mr. Adams; so am I. No one wants
to read my stuff.” He stared moodily about
at “Tj roW fr-°f tm i on the grocer’s shelves.
I do, Mister Terence. Your stuff is
honest and it s true. You don’t mince mat-
te£s - Straight from the shoulder, that’s
what I like. You ask the wife if I don’t
rea ? n ® ve J ythln " y°. u write. So does she.”
Thats very nice of you, but you’re not
editors. said Terence gloomily. “I write
S?rJ hl ?ifV that u U r# e U P in me; idealistic
things that are hard to sell. It’s no good •
you must be a materialist if you have to
earn your bread and butter in this world.
You have to tell the world’s fools what fine
for vfn ° T'll l ey \ re ’ ° r they liave u°
y°u- 1 U have to go to the city where I
f ? 1 el I , m °r mercen ary. It is too beautiful
and idyllic here at Green Spring to be any-
thing but idealistic. When I get up in the
morning and look out of my door, away over
the varlej, and watch the sun come up quiet
and red and lift all the mists up out of the
valley I say to myself, ‘That’s what I’m
valTev *° And llft T the m ists up out of the
valley. then I get to work and write
a whole lot of hot, idealistic, true stuff that
iT- and The That ’ s the end of
m ° Mh «""*
<iT’f^' said Marcus Adams slowly,
Ive got an idea. If s h e was to give you
that thousand pounds to make the mists rise
out of the valley! That’s just the way
Emily talks herself!”
“Er —I beg your pardon,” said Terence,
staring at him.
“I wonder if she would, 1 ” said Marcus
Adams. He fixed his spectacled gaze on
Terence. “You see, it’s this way. You don’t
know about the Anti-Vampire League. I’ll
tell you. I wanted to b 6 a painter.” Marcus
was clenching and unclenching his hands, and
twisting his apron up. “You might be able
to write a story about it,” he added, “and
make a lot of money!”
Terence stared. The grocer ! His grocer!
an interesting old man who “used his nut,”
certainly; but a thrilled and excited Marcus,
a visionary Marcus! He had often enough
yarned to him when he rode down for
groceries, but he had somewhat mistrusted
the old man, though he liked his gentle wife.
He had been inclined to think the grocer
was putting on airs with him because he was
a writer. He despised grocers; grocering
destroyed the soul. And here was Marcus
with a past; with passionate excitement.
He had wanted to be a painter!
“Yes,” said Marcus slowly, as if he were
talking to himself, “my father was a grocer,
but my mother was what they used to call
a lady. I suppose it was from her I got
my ideas. I still can draw.” He indicated
some charcoal sketches on the wall. “I was
mad to be a painter, and my mother spurred
me on. I went to Sydney, to art schools and
technical colleges. My mother persuaded my
father ; it cost them a lot, too, and they
could ill afford it. My father’s business was
never like mine here—never so prosperous.
It was a wonderful time.” He was looking
down a vista of years; disappeared years,
blue and green and yellow; years of hope
and fire and disappointment. “Till I met
the Vampire.”
Terence gave an involuntary start.
“'I wonder if you ever knew her. She’s
still there. She paints wliat they call pastels,
and she’s ‘it’ in Sydney. She climbs on live
bodies. I won’t mention names.”
“No, don’t,” said Terence, repressing a
shudder. “Go on !”
“I had a good friend, Jimmy Watson, a
cartoonist; a clever chap. He warned me
against the Vampire. ‘Work her for all you’re
worth, Marcus,’ he said ; ‘and then look out
or shell rum you. The moment she finds
there’s any chance of your being a serious
rival, your number will be up. I’ve watched
her do it time and again; she’s too valuable
not to know; she goes out of her way to
know people and knows everybody. The
people who buy ask her to their houses be-
cause she s a name and she goes because they
are influential, and so they scratch each
other s backs; a sort of refined system of
graft.
“And she’s charming, oh yes; there lies
the danger. It inspires confidence. She
loves adulation but loathes competition ; and
just when a young artist is beginning to rise
and wants financial assistance and boosting
she stoushes him. ‘You won’t believe me?’
said Jimmy, ‘but I’ve watched her do it. My
wife was like that, and I know the methods.
khe stoushed me.’
“I didn’t believe Jimmy Watson—l thought
he was bitter on account of his wife—and I
went right off the handle over her. She
got me invitations to places and people that
made my young heart sing. Poor fool—a
good-lookmg young cub, I suppose, and her
faithful satellite, her constant adorer and
her latest proteg<§. She said her husband
was dead. They said he left her.”
A heavy scowl settled itself on Terence’s
face.
“I spent all my money taking her about,
ohe demanded it, and perhaps she didn’t
mean to bleed me. Pretty women take pretty
things as their right, and forget that they
cost money. The trouble was it wasn’t my
money and I had no right to be spending it.
I fought she was teaching me how to live,
and she certainly did do that—she has a
flair for living herself. She used to say that
you must live before you can paint, so I
accepted it as part of my education.”
Marcus paused for breath. “I’m not boring
you, am I?” he said.
“No, go on!”
“Well, my education didn’t end there-
and when the crash came it hit me pretty
” ard - .It wasn’t so much the money—it was
the faith that she shattered. Women are
like that.”
Terence was clenching and unclenching his
lists. His face was full of misery. Marcus
went on without noticing.
I was getting on well. No doubt she had
something to do with it; she was very helpful
with advice. I had been praised and had even
sold a few little pictures at a very low price.
I hen I came to the end of my money. It
was impossible to ask for any more. What
my parents had saved for my training I had
spent in half the time. I consulted my adored
lady, and asked her if she would help me to
sell some more pictures and at a higher
price. °
“She didn’t say much—said it was a pity
when I showed such promise, that I should
have been more careful and that she should
not have let me spend so much and she
would see what she could do. Then off she
went to an art exhibition in Melbourne. She
was tired of me. I was dropped.
“Sydney grew cold; no one took any
interest. As the satellite of a charming and
successful miniature painter I had been inter-
esting, but as a poverty-stricken and solitary
country lad I was nobody. The Vampire had
sucked my blood. Jimmy Watson laughed
at , me. ‘What did I tell you?’ he said
You re only about the fiftieth!’
“For several months I battled away, but
I couldnt work and I couldn’t sell a thing
Maybe my pictures weren’t worth buying
but nobody even wanted to think they were’
I hat was a terrible time in my life no
money; hardly any friends ;no illusions. Mv
father fell ill and I was sent for. It was
a godsend really, for I was about starving
Then there came the offer of this business!
and I bought it. I swore I’d make a lot of
money and go back to Sydney and break that
woman I swore a good many things in
those days when I was running this store
on my own. Things were pretty poor here
at Green Spring before it became a tourist
resort.
“And then I met Emily. She was the
school-teacher, a little slip of a frightened
(Continued on next page.)


£
2
Have You Any
Sign of Dreaded O
Eczema f
ZAM-BUK Will Soon Clear Your Skin.
AS Zam-Buk represents the result of years of
study of skin disease, this great herbal balm
can always be relied upon in cases of fiery eczema
or any itching or inflammatory symptoms.
The world-wide success of Zam-Buk is due to its
unique formula. Zam-Buk contains valuable herbal
essences which are so highly refined that they are
readily absorbed by the tiny pores of the skin.
Thus Zam-Buk heals from below by reaching under-
lying tissues where disease has its root.
Powerfully antiseptic and agreeably soothing,
Zam-Buk quickly allays irritation. It subdues
inflammation, kills and expels disease germs, and after
thoroughly cleansing the tissues, induces Nature to
grow new healthy skin.
Zam-Buk is absolutely unequalled for pimples,
rashes, eczema, ulcers, abscesses, poisoned wounds,
bad legs, psoriasis, piles, cuts, bruises, burns and
scalds, etc.
STARTED FROM
INFLAMED SPOT
. months,” says
Mrs. R. Jones, of Donation Lane, Toowoomba,
Queensland. “Caused through scratching a
tiny spot on my skin, it ultimately spread
all over my body. The fiery itching was
intense and I felt like tearing my skin to
pieces. Though I tried all sorts of prepara-
tions, there was no improvement until I used
Zam-Buk. This soon put an end to the burn-
ing and itching. It purified the tissues and
grew new healthy skin.”
ZAM-BUK WINS
A HARD CASE.
Mr. T. D. Kyle,
of “Cathay,”
Belmont Road,
Char lestown,
near Newcastle, N.S.W., says: “For years I
suffered from eczema on my left leg, and the
persistent irritation was frightful. A small
fortune went in ointments. I was in hospital
for months. I thought I would never be free
of the eczema. It was a hard figrA, even for
Zam-Buk, but after a time I could see im-
provement: This got me to keep on with
the balm. Now, the old sores are all healed
and my skin is perfectly clear.”
m
1
CO'- 0
cy^ L
\ v
oc^
Zam-Buk
1/6 and 3/6 box.
Medicinal Soap 1/- a Tablet .
FREE
TRIAL!
Have you had your FREE SAMPLES of Zam-Buk
Balm and Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap? If not, send name
and address to Messrs. C. E. Fulford (Aus.), Ltd., Pitt
Street, Sydney. Mention Sydney Bulletin 7/3/’2B.
ẃ
thing; and she used to ride three miles to
the school every morning. The little school
where she used to teach has been pulled
down now. She was so little and so fright-
ened that I used to feel sorry for her, and
she was so plucky that I began to admire
her. And one day, when I saw her with
the children clustering around her, and
her cheeks all pink with trying to keep
them in order, I loved her.
“When we got married I told her all about
Sydney and the Vampire and what I had
sworn to do, and she laughed at me and
said she wouldn’t have anything to do with
it. I said she must, because that would be
part of the triumph. She talked to me in
her gentle way. Emily has a genius for ex-
plaining things—l suppose it’s because she
was a teacher. She said that it was the
Vampire’s small soul that made her like
that; and that what the world wanted was
more ‘big’ women. Women with clear,
steady minds and generous hearts, to —
guide and mother the world, she put it.”
Terence was listening with wonder in his
eyes.
“My wife’s talking is like your writing,”
said Marcus, “only, woman-like, she explains
things more simply and practically. Some-
times you get right away in the clouds where
the ordinary man can’t follow you, Mister
Terence, but Emily never does that. She’s
always on the track right beside you”
Terence smiled uncertainly.
“So you didn’t go back to Sydney and
smash her?”
“No! Emily said that when we had
daughters we’d educate them so’s they would
be ‘big’ women; and that would smash
the Vampire more than anything.”
Suddenly Terence’s eyes flooded with
tears, those quick tears that come to artists
and of which they alone are not ashamed.
“Your wife is a wonder,” he said; “she’s
always been very kind to me, but I had no
idea she was as fine as that. She never
speaks of herself.”
“No, a quiet mouse of a woman! The
beauty of it was we never had any daugh-
ters, and the boy died. We adopted a little
girl, and diphtheria carried them both off
together. It was a terrible time; the drains
in the township got bad and a whole lot of
the children died. It nearly killed Emily.
She said it looked as if she wasn’t to have
children.”
There was a silence and the two men
smoked without looking at one another.
“Then she started to save,” said Marcus.
“It was to be a scholarship at the Univer-
sity for a girl. She’s saved a thousand
pounds; she looks at it and says, 'That’s a
daughter to us, Marcus!’ We call it the
Anti-Vampire League money. It’s to be
called the A.V.L. Scholarship.
“But what I was thinking was that she
thinks the world of you. ‘That’s what the
boy would have been like?’ she said to me
one day; ‘like Mr. Terence, full of ideas
and life!’ And if you come to think of it
you’re a member of the Anti-Vampire
League, too, because you wrote ‘The Fail-
ure.’ So if Emily was to give you the
thousand pounds you could write a book
about the Vampire that would smash her
like anything!”
“No!” said Terence. “I could never
write another book about the Vampire. The
next book I’m going to write will be about
a little woman with a frightened face. A
little woman like Shakspeare’s Virgilia. The
little woman whom her - warrior husband
called ‘My Gracious Silence.’ A little ‘big’
woman, who saw clearly and who felt
deeply; not only for herself, but for the
whole world. ‘My Gracious Silence,’ said
Terence musing; “that’s what you should
call your wife. A woman like that is
Heaven’s own gold.”
“Compared with the Vampire,” said
Marcus, “she is Heaven itself!”
“You know,” said Terence slowly, as
though he were defending somebody, “you
mustn’t be too hard on a woman like that.
You can’t blame those who fall rvhen you
are in danger of falling yourself all the
time.” And he sighed.
“I’d like to have punished her, though,”
said Marcus; “she deserved it.”
“How do you know she hasn’t been pun-
ished?” Terence thrust his hands into his
pockets.
Marcus opened his blue eyes very wide.
The idea of the Vampire being punished by
anybody but himself had not occurred to
him. “She’s still going strong so tar as I
know. It’d take a lot to punish her!” he
said.
“Well, you never know,” Terence replied
slowly. “For instance, I knew a woman once
who let her ideals go to pot. Mind you,
that’s much worse for a woman than a man.
Well, a man loved her, and then he found her
out for the mercenary creature she was, and
left her. It wasn’t a question of unfaith-
fulness or anything like that, unless you
could call it unfaithfulness to ideals....
When he left her I think she got worse.
Women like that are very fond of them-
selves and you hurt them most by hurting
their pride. But her punishment came
through her son. She adored him. He was
handsome and clever; too clever. She had
him well educated, and he came to see
through her too ; and with all the idealism
of youth and all of its intolerance, he told
her exactly what he thought of her —and
ran away.”
“Were you her husband?” said Marcus
quietly.
“No, I was her son!”
The cob neighed outside and the two men
looked at each other. Terence picked up the
bag of oats and turned to go. At the door
he hesitated.
“The trouble is,” he said, “she’s got con-
sumption now. She’s out to it and there’s
no money, and no one to look after her. I’ve
got to go and try to pick up a job to help
her.”
“By Jimminy,” said Marcus painfully,
and just then Emily came in with a lamp.
“Still talking?” she smiled. “Would
you mind posting this letter for me,
Mr. Terence, as you pass the office. I’m
sending it!” she said proudly to her hus-
band. Then, sensing the tense atmosphere,
she inquired quickly, “What’s wrong?’
Terence had come forward to take the
letter.
“Mr. Terence has to go away. His
mother’s very ill,” said Marcus quickly.
“Oh, dear!” Emily turned to Terence
with quick sympathy. “Is there anything I
could do; or send ?”
“She’s got consumption,” said Marcus;
“and she’s poor.”
“Thank you, Mrs. Adams,” Terence put
in ; “there’s nothing you can do, I'm afraid.
She’s in Sydney. I’ll be getting along
now.”
“Sydney?” said Emily, and she looked at
the letter in Terence’s hand. “Consump-
tion ! Your mother! Mr. Terence,” she said
slowly, “you once rendered me a very great
service. I—l had a great bitterness in my
heart against someone who had wronged one
who is very dear to me. I tried to live it
down, and I tried not to show it, but it
was always there until I read your book,
‘The Failure.’ Then at last I understood
everything, and I felt no more malice, but
only pity for her. All the bitterness died
out of my heart.”
Marcus stared at his wife.
“What!”.he said slowly.
The little mouse-like voice went on.
“I have been saving money for a particu-
lar project. It was a kind of benevolent
vengeance on this person ; but now, instead,
I would like to wipe that old bitterness and
revenge clean out, and at the same time
repay you who have helped me to wipe it
out. Would —would you” She looked at
Terence with appealing eyes—“would you
accept the money I saved for this to save
your mother’s life? And to help you on
with your work? Please”— And she
clasped her hands as though she were pray-
ing to him —“please! We’d much rather
you had it than a stranger, wouldn’t we,
Marcus ?”
“I’m afraid,” said Marcus, “if you under-
stood everything, my dear, the thing would
be impossible.”
“Quite,” said Terence hurriedly, pre-
paring to go. “Thank you very, very much
all the same, Mrs. Adams. You have a
wonderful mind and a wonderful spirit. I
shall never forget.”
“Wait,” said Mai-cus, and, turning to his
wife, “Terence’s mother my dear, is—the
Vampire!”
He went to her thinking she was going
to fall, but she wavered only for a moment.
“The Vampire!” her little voice rose to
a pinpoint of sound.
r‘So you see,” (said Terence) grimly!,
“you’d be using the Anti-Vampire League
money to help the Vampire!” He turned to
the door.
“Stop !” cried Emily. “That letter, if you
please.”
He gave up tlie letter, and went out. Hus-
band and wife looked at each other.
“Well,” said Marcus, “what do you know
about that?”
Emily came to him and put her arms
round his neck. Her tears fell on his cheek,
but her eyes were shining.
“Darling,” she whispered. “I have hated
that woman for what she did to you. Oh,
I have hated her, but I never let you see;
because hate was eating your life. Marcus,
let’s wipe the slate clean ! Let’s do it!”
“Do what, my—my Gracious Silence?”
said Marcus.
“What did you call me?”
“Oh,-that’s what Terence said I ought to
call you. A little quiet, courageous woman,
he said —from Shakspeare. He said he was
going to call his next book that and write it
about you !”
“Oh,” said Emily, “the dear boy! Marcus,
if he hasn’t gone, ask him to post another
letter for me, will you?” ,
As Terence, mounted on the cob, swung
away from the store he heard a call, and
Emily rushed out.
“Another letter.” she said breathlessly,
bolding it up. “Would —would you mind re-
addressing it?” And Terence, in bewilder-
ment, did the only thing he could think of.
He caught her hand with the letter, and
stooped and kissed it.
“And it,” as Emily said to her husband
afterwards, “all over kerosene, too!”
“So you gave the money that we called
our child to her! In payment for what she
did for us!”
“In payment for what her child did for
us,” said Emily simply, “or, if you like, in
payment for nothing at all. You don’t give
things in payment.”
LLYWELYN LUCAS.
In Leading Strings.
A trifle out of joint with things,
Upon a grey day overcast
With clouds, by Fancy’s leading-strings
Drawn on, I lately journeyed forth
To seek the Past.
Anon, I met companions gay,
Who heedless watched the flight of time
And mocked at what the world might say,
Each counting grey old Reason less
Than rose' and rhyme.
At revels in a place of flowers,
And careless of the world’s demands,
No thought they took of future hours,
When empty cupboards should be theirs
And empty hands.
Song did they raise, wine did they quaff,
Pluck fruit and flowers from tree and stem,
Bear hardship with a carefree laugh,
While humdrum folk with sober eyes
Looked down on them.
Because a light seemed gone from earth,
A gleam that left me lone and sac\
I sought to join them in their mirth,
But twenty stern and serious years
Of life forbade.
Though yearning for old thoughts and things,
Old times that ne’er will come again.
I severed Fancy’s leading-strings,
And. loath to go, farewelled that tribe
Of singing men.
N.S.W.
RODERIO QUINN.


fm
..w -rt
v.-- «<f"
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGIIOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Oiieeiisluiitl Agt-mr.—uOLMKSi as C'UDHCH, Brisbane. miUmDh U/rtT M V uf net
K.Z. Office—93-107 T'eathcrston Street, Wellington. vUnvUKU Wtol, fl. O. WALEo
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House/’ 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH SH CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
RAY-D-VAC
The Mark of Superior Quality
RADIO
„ BATTERIES
mm « A „
“B”
c
*
,r^'o*A"ClßCUt'
mb
"AYD-Vac
®'Tr,At
£3
Longer Life Better Reception
Their Longer Life is due to their
patented construction, which in-
sulates the cells from each other
and pro vides for possible ex-
pansion of the electrolyte.
No hot pitch is poured
into the batteries, and
thereby many hours'
service are added.
Ray-0-Vac batteries give un-
distorted tone, because of their
low internal resistance which
is only from 1/3 to 1/6 of
that found in other batter-
ies. And because of their
greater staying power,
the cost of radio upkeep
is greatly lessened.
Write our distributor for the name of your nearest dealer •
French Battery Company
MADISON, WISCONSIN, U. S. A.
DISTRIBUTOR
United Distributors, Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane, Australia
Wellington, New Zealand.
CRAIC AND AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST SYDNEY
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle . . . . 21/- „
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Day PLUM Razor Sets:—
Black 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths; fin. and fin.
Post-paid Prices .
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
each. Post Free.
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
'Weather and other circumstances permitting.
Prom Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Hoard
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
Tels.: 86276 (4 lines).
w
When you suffer
From biliousness take
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Biliousness' arises
From disordered
Stomach ap.f! bowels
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Tone and cleanse
Stomach, liver, bowels
And the entire system.
Banish biliousness
Relieve constipation
Dispel dyspepsia
ŵ
A dose at nighf
will keep you right
Sold in
Boxes
1/- & 2/6.
=an
y=-
H)=
K=
i
w
3=ol,
9
■
5; ZZ S
ilii^f sIISSiPS f HiP
! gfflHßßS®a^
@Msf;
wnro Wfr.w
iC
*1
“RING LOCK,” THE LOCK THAT WILL NOT SHIFT.
. A Thl t Ts ence ,« s ! T,ade from the finest °P en hearth galvanised steel, in our own Factory
tL p* t r?! ,a .? Wor u kman v and ’? now ava * lable for the first time to the Australian Farmer.
J h f*iff en * e t h rou 9hout (both Laterals and Droppers) is heavy 10-gauge, thus producing
a stiff stay fence, requiring less posts than usual. 8
Made for the present in two styles only.
.. . No -J An fdeal sheep fence - five lines spaced, sin., 6in., 7in., and Bin. apart, 261 n.
high. Droppers spaced 12in. apart.
PRICE:—In 5-chain Rolls, 6/9 per Chain, or £23/10/ per mile.
N° A Cme sheep or cattle fence, six lines spaced sin., 6in., 7in., Bin., and lOin.
apart, 36in. high. Droppers spaced 12in. apart.
PRICE:—In 5-chain Rolls, 8/3 per chain, or £29/10/ per mile.
SEND FOR FULLY ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE. POST FREE.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS,
D. & W. CHANDLER LTD.
276 to 294 Brunswick St., FITZROY. ’Phone J 4145.
And at
234 to 236 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE. ’Phone F 4175.
ESTABLISHED 1876.
&
0°
6>
§o* f
0
#•
0<
..♦• s e^V


TO MAKE A GOOD AUSTRALIAN FENCE
“ WARATAH ” WIRE NETTING
Guaranteed Even, Reliable and Regular. Well
Galvanised, Full Weight and runs out Straight and Flat.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA TO SUIT AUSTRALIAN CONDITIONS
FROM “8.H.P.” NEWCASTLE STEEL.
IRON
and
STEEL
PRODUCTS
PIG IRON
INGOTS
BLOOMS
BILLETS
TEE RAILS
BRIDGE RAILS
TIE PLATES
BEAMS
CLUTCH BAR
CHANNELS
ANGLES
ROUNDS
TEES
Produced at
Newcastle
Steel Works.
ẁ
IRON
and
STEEL
PRODUCTS
(Continued)
SQUARES
FLATS
OCTAGONS
REINFORCING
BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL—TAR
TOLUOL
SLAG
SOLVENT
NAPHTHA
NAPHTHALINE
SULPHATE OF
AMMONIA
Produced at
Newcastle
Steel W orks.
THE CELEBRATED “8.H.P.” NEWCASTLE STEEL
is used in the production of
“WARATAH” FENCING WIRE
The Finest Fencing Wire made in any part of the world. Will stand the severest straining test —always
even and reliable in Quality.
“WARATAH STAR-SHAPED STEEL FENCE POSTS
These posts mark an entirely new development in steel fencing. They are extraordinarily rigid—are fireproof and weather-resistant. They obtain a good
hold in either hard or soft soil. Made in sft. and sft. 6in. lengths. (Special lengths can be supplied.)
WHEN BUYING, ALWAYS ASK FOR “WARATAH” BRAND
Every coil carries the “Waratah” identification disc.
