

#
f
cv
XMAS
28
19
gWARDEI
Someday
i
I Perth s
J
f f *
.ppO'HtMtMT T 0 « 15 M4j£ Sry r* f
SILSU
FINE
m
MW
&
;s#sfcr.
US EXCLUSIVELY SUPPLIED TO THE
6 WcstSnD. Clubs
Johii'DewaroSonsli
Distillers PERTMScotlaiwl)* LONDON
PRODUCE OF SCOTLAND
M'fW»
•Wlcbunoer the supervision of the common*?* 1 -™
am’#®
DEWAR'S
SCOTCH WHISKY
The Bulletin
CO-teL MOW, <7>V 7 to sfrVL&k&A\s 7 34
Vol. 49.—N0. 2548.
Wednesday, December 12, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Memorize with Ease.
Pass Examinations—Speak without Notes
Send this advertisement for Free 32-paste Booklet
to STOTT’S TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE, 100 Russell Street, Melbourne
\Y7RITE FOR THE LIBRARY CATA-
”, I-OOTJE LISTS on all subjects,
and Illustrated Christmas Catalogue of 70
pages, which will be forwarded on applica-
tion, post free, to
DYMDCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
gd
THis BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Nev.< p ree
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit at
advertised in the Sydney TifrLLETnf. ’
My Name
My Address
STAMMERING AND STUTTERING
CAN BE CURED IN YOUR OWN HOME
Send TO-DAY for particulars of “Perfect Speech” and copies of letters from those
who have been cured. Philip O’Bryen Hoare, M.8.1.M.5e. (London) (The
Stammerers’ Friend), Specialist in Public Speaking and the Cure of Stammering
and Stuttering.
Address: 56 Brisbane Arcade, Brisbane, Queensland.
P.O. Box 1142 P.
AUTHORS! ARTISTS!
There's a market in Australia for every worth-while manuscript and drawing.
The Australian and New Zealand Writers’ and Artists’ Year Book
i:i Australasia’s only press-contributor’s directory for the guidance of those who aspire to sell Fiction,
Articles, Poems, Pars, Cartoons and Humorous Drawings, Photos, Plays, Scenarios, etc., to Newspapers,
Book Publishers, Syndicates and Producers. It contains a complete list of Australasian markets specially
compiled for your benefit. '
The 1029 Edition, ready in January, will be larger, more comprehensive than the 1928
one, revised thoroughly and brought up»to-date in every section; and will contain
additional features of benefit to the Freelance. The Directory Portion has expanded
many pages. Newspapers numbering nearly 750 are now listed, with details of their editorial
requirements and rates of payments for contributions. Mr. Cecil Mann, Bulletin Prize
Novel Competition judge, has contributed an article of particular interest to story-
competition entrants, entitled “Building file Novel.”
144 PAGES.
XO SPECIAL ARTICLES.
144 PAGES
25 HELPFUL LISTS AND FEATURES.
FREE LITERARY SERVICE BUREAU FOR READERS.
HALF-A-CROWN INVESTED IN THIS HANDBOOK WILL
INCREASE YOUR LITERARY EARNINGS BY POUNDS.
All Newsagents and Booksellers, Australia and New Zealand.
2/6
2/6
Preece’s Catalogue
First Editions, Signed, Limited, and Private
Press Editions, Signed Bindings.
POST FREE.
F. W. PREECE & SONS,
34 King William Street, Adelaide.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
Makes
/'> ; ‘il^sfe : 'i’;?Jf . ~‘> ; rj > ' *<;> ■.
New Running Cars
o/ Middle-Aged Cars!
Avoids 80%
of Repair
jM:
j canable of JgS? J n(i ft la
p.j miles- — (jtja tn any rv, n ..
b ° e n e e n "2f > rea®
Regularly eve^^^jemited
J ' Pa TESA
Repair men know that many
good cars grow old before
their time. From one chief
cause —lack of proper lubri-
cation.
Then come big repair bills.
(Tabulated reports show
80% of all repairs are due to
neglected or improper lubri-
cation!)
But now every car owner can avoid
this. A new lubricating system makes
it possible. A tested system that is
employed on 15,000,000 of the
world’s cars today.
High Pressure Lubrication
The Alemite system is built for high
pressure lubrication. To force clean,
fresh lubricant entirely through the
bearings—to force old, worn-out lu-
bricant entirely out of the bearings.
This efficient high-pressure lubri-
cation works wonders with every car.
Renews the riding qualities and com-
fort of middle-aged cars so they seem
like new. And it eliminates the cause
of 80% of motor car repairs —if
you will but tend to it every 500
miles or so.
Your Car Can Be Alemite*
equipped at Small Cost
If your car is already equipped with
this money-saving system, use it
every 500 miles and you’ll cut the
cost of operating your car anywhere
from a half-penny to a penny half-
penny a mile.
If your car is not so equipped, the
installation of Alemite fittings can
be made quickly and at a surprising-
ly low cost. A fitting costing only a
few pennies will save a bearing
worth many pounds. The Bassick
Manufacturing Company, Division
of Stewart-Warner, Chicago, U. S. A.
fg
The Alemite Fittings
Modern dust-proof Alemite and
Alemite-Zerk fittings for chassis
bearings. Lubricant is shot
through them under high pres-
sure to the heart of the bearing.
Old grease and grit thus forced
out —clean new lubricant sur-
rounds the entire bearing.
dfg
A lemite Compressors
To conform to fittings, com-
pressors come in two styles—
Alemite and Alemite-Zerk. The
Alemite Compressor forces lu-
bricant through bearing by
twisting handle—the Alemite-
Zerk “gun” by a simple thrust-
ing motion.
df
The Alemite-ed Bearing
Cut-open view of lubricated
bearing. Note how lubricant
under pressure forces way en-
tirely through bearing.
No. 831.
gd
fg
©T. B, M. Co.
Re«, U. S. Pat. 08
I'6 cmc^
POWDER V
t s ''-
w ■
I
m
s>.
Kills Flies and Insects
Instantly.
Sold everywhere, or forward
1/~ or 1/- in stamps to
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Chemical Co., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
The Red Page
Novelists at Law
[The writer of this article is a barrister at law
and was one of the judges for the first Bulletin
Novel Competition. What he has to say here
should be interesting, and probably useful, to many
who are shaping their entries for the second of
these competitions, the prizes for which are £4OO,
£250 and £lOO, and the closing date, December
31, 1929.]
On the authority of Judge Parry, Charles
Dickens holds the honor of being the only
novelist whose fictional case has been
quoted as a legal authority in a court of
law. About 40 years ago the novelist’s
son, Henry Dickens—he has since become
Sir Henry—was defending a prisoner be-
fore Justice Hawkins and put the question
to one of the witnesses who had been
talking about an irrelevant soldier, “Tell
us, if you please, what the soldier said?”
His Honor pounced on him: “Mr. Dickens,
you of all people ought to know that 'you
must not tell us what the soldier or any
other man said; it’s not evidence.’ That
was decided in Bardell v. Pickwick.”
The law, indeed, presents many pitfalls
to the novelist. Even the lawyer turned
novelist .is not impeccable. Galsworthy,
with old Soames at his elbow and himself
called to the Bar, has had his legal know-
ledge on the notorious case in “The Silver
Spoon” called into question. Much then
may be pardoned the smaller fry who swim
in the waters of fiction. But there are
limits beyond which pardon has to be
strained.
The recent Bulletin novel competition
proved that there is some fascination
about getting a trial into fiction. Dozens
tried it. The ladies were more daring then
the men—and knew even less about the
matter. There was a touch of poetic sar-
casm in the description of a lawyer in
one lady’s script as “the fat slug at the
heart of the rose,” and a certain associa-
tion of ideas in the reference by another
to a person as “the next of skin.” Almost
all the ladies were uncomplimentary in
their references to the Judges, who are, it
seems, a prejudiced, evil-minded crew. One
Judge thought nothing of “exporting” a
prisoner for seven years; another’s sum-
ming up was, at any rate, unique:—
Prisoner’s remarks concerning the swearing in of
the witnesses contained satirical depth. His irrever-
ence is astounding; his examination of the chief
witness astute, and his defence remarkable, strange,
unreasoning and tending to fatuous insanity.
Once only did a Judge become human—
a faint smile flitted over his face for an
instant “so that it became almost pleasant
to look upon.” This sign of judicial weak-
ness was immediately seized upon: “Coun-
sel for the defence noticed the smile and
decided to make the most of this witness.
Crown noticed it also and decided to make
the least of her.”
They do strange things in these fiction
courts, as, for instance: —
The sour-faced Judge upon the bench looked even
more sour than before and rang his bell several
times and called for “Silence in the court,” though
there was little enough noise there except for the
buzzing of a blue-bottle fly making believe it was
spring, on one of the courthouse windows. The
counsel for the defence glanced sharply at the Judge.
It was a pity, he thought, that the accused was so
pretty; the Judge would be prejudiced against her
on that account.
Crown Prosecutors fared little better than
the Judges. Here is the picture of one of
these demons of the law:—
He had been clever with his own witnesses, but
he was doubly so with the witnesses for the defence.
They were like putty in his hands; he buffeted them
about and beat them to earth and bewildered them
so with questions that more often than not he had
them telling him exactly what he wished to hear,
rather than the truth they had sworn to tell when
entering the witness-box.
One writer raised a State Judge to
“Lordship”; and, though every properly-
brought-up young woman can at once dis-
tinguish a rector from a curate (or they
used to be able to), not one in a dozen
of the novelists could differentiate between
a barrister and a solicitor, the latter receiv-
ing as many briefs as the former.
But the ladies were not alone. It was
a man who created an English Justice of
the Peace who caused an offender charged
with si felony to be brought before him
and thereupon sentenced him to seven
years’ transportation without the negligible
formality of a Judge and jury. It is, how-
ever, when justice itself falls that the
tensest moments are reached. Here is the
story of a wicked Judge who had com-
mitted a crime secretly and hid a guilty
conscience behind his scarlet robes:—
With trembling hand the Judge reached for the
cap.... A commotion outside. A woman’s voice
demands admittance. Two women supporting a
man enter the court. The young woman leaves her
two companions and rushes forward. “Val' ” The
prisoner clutches the bars of the dock. Evading
the police, she stands in the centre of the court
With dishevelled hair and face ashen white she
points an accusing finger at the Judge, who has
risen and stands trembling'—fascinated by the steely
glance. Not until she feels the pressure of strong
arms force her back; and then came the metallic
ring of a passionate voice, “False, false Judge!
Your hour has come!” Out from the court they
bear the senseless form and as the door closes, the
Judge is seen to reel and fall heavily. He had
fainted.
T. B. CLEGG.
Australian College of Surgeons
The College of Surgeons of Australia (which
includes Maoriland) has been formed, an in-
augural meeting has been held at Canberra,
and the first number of the journal of the
College,a solid-looking tome,has been issued.
Among the Foundation Fellows are the
cream of Australian and Maoriland sur-
geons, and there can be no doubt concern-
ing the purity of the founders’ motives.
Some of the objects of the College are:
(1) To see that the public is supplied with
an efficient surgical service; (2) to bring
about a higher standard of hospital
efficiency; (3) to aim at a high ethical
standard for Fellows by discouraging
unnecessary operations, and by prohibiting
fee-splitting; (4) to establish and stabilise
the post-graduate teaching of surgery; (5)
to foster, cultivate and advertise (not in
the meanest sense of the word) a school
of Australian surgery, comparable to
British, American and Continental schools.
These are very laudable ambitions, and,
directly or indirectly, vitally concern, every
citizen of the Commonwealth.
The average Australian gives great
thought to the choice of a motor-car or the
horse that will carry his money, but when
it comes to his wife having half her inside
removed, or the excision of Tommy’s ton-
sils (not the trivial procedure most people
imagine), he is supremely and almost crimi-
nally indifferent. To him all doctors are
the same; he will hand over the members
of his family to the nearest tyro, on whose
diploma the ink is scarcely dry, with no
inquiries as to surgical status or operative
ability a careless, casual, line-of-the-least-
resistance attitude. A consulting physician
sees almost every day the sequels of ill-
balanced surgical judgment and bad operat-
es- The college is out to stop th'is kind
oi thing. It does not claim that its Fel-
lows are divinely-inspired wizards of the
knife, but what it does say in effect is: “A
Fellow of this College has had a proper
surgical training; he has had considerable
surgical experience; he has pledged his
word to observe the highest ethical stan-
dards in the practise of his craft, and he
can be safely entrusted to do his job
properly and give you a fair run for your
money.” The College, therefore, is a kind
of insurance and a guide to the community.
An important part of the work of the
College will be to support the introduction
of paying” or “intermediate” beds into
public hospitals. At the present time the
public hospital is the only place where
important pre-operation work is efficiently
carried out. From a strictly scientific point
of view, the sick poor are much more for-
tunate than the sick rich. The average
private hospital, for modern methods, is
inadequate. Also, patients of moderate
means have no desire to get something for
nothing and be treated as charity cases;
yet the cost of an operation may be a tre-
mendous financial strain. It is to overcome
this difficulty that the paying bed will
probably be introduced into our public hos-
pitals. The patient will pay according to
his means, and will have the advantages
that only an institution with adequate
equipment can give. The surgeon will do
his work in the best possible circumstances,
and the patient will reap the benefit. The
College is strongly supporting this much-
needed lieform.
There has been dissatisfaction within the
medical profession concerning this new Col-
lege. Certain highly-competent surgeons
have not been invited to the party, and
many quite-suitable applicants have had
their admission deferred on insufficient
pounds. Like the Stage, Medicine has
been, is and always will be full of petty
spites and jealousies. But this is a family
matter. Minor errors in judgment on the
part of the executive of the College should
soon be righted, and meanwhile the young
institution is worthy of the interest and
support of all good Australians.
QUACK.
Lawson’s West
writing of Henry Lawson on the
Red Page recently, has been rather unfair
to Lawson. I cannot see why an honest
picture of the West during drought should
prove that the painter hated the West.
Lawson saw the faults of his country, and
he saw that many of the faults could be
corrected by men. Many of his poems
(Continued on page 5.)


'‘Truth in Advertising,” a worthy principle faithfully maintained.
Buy Your Holiday Fishing Necessities Now at
Anthony Horderns’
Selection is Unlimited—Prices are Low
CUTTY HUNK
ff»J6
Bify/
NIMROD
Line
Fishing
Reliable Fishing Lines
The Donegal Genuine Cuttyhunk Line (Illustrated on left.)
Made from finest Irish linen thread. 100-yard spools.
6 9 12 15 18
Dry Test 12 18 24 30 36 Ib.
Prices 6/- 6/6 7/6 8/6 10/-
Can be had in 300-yard lengths.
Nimrod Special Braided Flax Casting Line (Illustrated
on right.) A line of exceptional merit. Made in- Bella
from the finest flax procurable. Braided by special
machinery and guaranteed not to kink. Ideal line o
spinning or trolling in fresh or salt water. In 2 5 -yard coils,
8 connected. 30 45 501 b.
Per 25-yard iength 1/- V 6 2 / _ 2 / 6
Quality Fishing Rods
dfg
New York Club Split Cane Fly Rods.
Extra top cork grip. Length, 9 ft.
form in canvas bag. Price
With three joints.
On velvet covered
37/6
_j^jLLmxFymai-u-ixij.at.yxu
T
English Big Fish Rod, with short detachable butt,
cork grip and lock joint. Agate rings. Weight,
Price
Double
) ounces.
£7/10/-
df
Winchester Split Cane Fly Rod. Length, 9ft.
extra top, cork grip. With bamboo top case.
Three joints,
Price . . 95/-
gdf
YT.629
Allcocks’ Heavy Split Cane Rod. Length, Bft.
Porcelain rings and cork grip. Price
Two joints.
72/6
mmMunwmsif^sst
YT.630
American Big Fish Rod. One-piece and detachable butt.
German Silver mountings, tarpon or locking reel seat.
Double hole top. Cane grip and cane grasp on tip. Double
trumpet guides. with two colors of silk, finished
with best varnish. In canvas partition bag. Price .. . £5
g§=3o=! =3
<=t
iii'ti —
English Green Heart Big Fish Rods. With short detachable
butt, cork grip and Agate end rings. Weight of tip. 19
ounces. Price 77/6
YT.670
©
0
YT.669
Well-known Reels
The Templar Reel. (Illustrated on left.) This reel is con-
structed to withstand the terrific strain of all heavy sea
fishing. It has a patent Williams Drag and Stop. With
Lever Control, which operates against the fish, and not
against the angler. Size, 200 yards. Price
Size 300 yards. Price *
The Ohio Reel. (Illustrated on right.) Is equipped with
handle Drag and Stop, with which any required degree of
drag tension can be had, which can be operated while the
fish is in play or not. 250 yards. Price
300 yards. Price 70/-
gd
Fishing Tackle
Dept., Ground
Floor.
Carnage not Paid.
fg
Southbend Oreno Antibacklash Reel. (Illustrated on left.)
The instant the bait hits the water the spool stops running.
There are no back lashings, snarls or tangles. It is, in fact,
two reels in one. It may or may not be used with the
Antibacklash feature. A simple adjustment makes it into a
reel of the ordinary type for those who prefer it. The
brake action applies itself for a fraction of a second when
your bait hits the water. Price 35/-
Aluiminium Trout Reels. (Illustrated on right.) Bronzed.
Excellent reels for deep-sea fishing.
Sizes 21 3 3 2 in.
Prices 22/6 25/- 27/6
n
Big Fish Hooks
Not illustrated.
Southbend Bait Casting Rod. Length, sift.
Price
Agate rings.
67/6
American Split Cane Rod. Length, 9ft. Three joints. Extra
top. Put up on cloth-covered form. Price
Anglers’ Outfit, complete. A good present for the boy. Rod
line and reel. Price, per outfit 8/6, 10/6, 15/6
English Split Cane Rod. Length I Oft Three joints Extra
top lock. Ferriuls. Cork grip, rubber batten. Price, £6/10 -
Farlow’s Paris Tournament Split Cane Trout Rod. Length
9-|ft. Two joints, cork grip, weight about 6oz. Price, *.»
Saline Enamelled Silk Fly Line. A solid braid line, made of
the very highest quality silk. 14 P F
g= « W “lb.
Per 25-yard lengths 5/- 5/6 6/6
The Blue Ribbon Bait Casting Rod. Made of high-quality
silk, specially prepared for this particular line.
jl ize •■ • 12 15 201 b.
plr ToO-yard iengths •» . 12/6 14/- 16/-
OPEN
UNTIL 9 P. M. EVERY FRIDAY
Anthony Horderns’
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O


If You Drove a Much More
Expensive Car
You Would Find the Same Vital Elements of Quality
The only Essex point in common with cars
in its price field —is price. An examination
of the Essex will give you some astonishing
comparisons that you will not forget. Essex
quality, fine appearance and high manufac-
turing practice rightly classify it with those
costly cars which have the best-known fine
car features.
Every Essex feature typifies the costly car
way Essex is built throughout—and you can
verify this detail by detail, inside and out, by
comparison first with the costly cars —and
then with cars in the Essex price class.
See, examine and ride in the Essex. It will
explain why this car is the largest-selling six
in the history of the industry.
Hudson and Essex
cars are both de-
signed by the same
staff of engineers
and built in t h e
same factory, by
the same precison
methods. Both are
Super-Sixes.
ESSEX.
Tourer, Australian Body . . .. ..
Roadster ~ ~ ......
Coach ~ ~ . . . . . .
Coach, Imported Body
Coupe ~ ~ (Rumble Seat)
Sedan, Australian Body
Sedan, Imported Body
£270
270
330
350 f
365
345
370 J
Five Balloon
Tyres
Standard
Equipment.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A
DISTRIBUTORS
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide. Street, Brisbane.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD„
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER,
df


SMOKES—
for Gift Time
CAPSTAN Cigarettes —
popular grade packed in
Leatherette covered gift boxes.
Contains 200 cigarettes.
Price, box 8/9
VIRGINIAN Cigarettes—
David Jones’ famous high-
grade. 50 in gift box. Price,
3/3- 75. 5/s 100, 6/6; 150,
9/9; 200,13/-.
COUNTRY CLUB Cigars—
special value! Box of io for
5/6; box of 25,12/6 and box
of 50 for .. .. 24/6
If it’s a Pipe you want to
give him—choose one of
David Jones’ Plus Four Briar
Pipes. Made from best quality
Corsian Bruyere. Plain Pipes,
price, each 10/6. With get.
gold mount. Price, each 15/6
C%f^'
*>AVfs
DAVID JONES’
Castlereagh, Market,
Branch Men’s Shop,
Elizabeth Streets
Opposite G.P.O.
went to show what the West could be-
come with water; Lawson, in fact, never
tired of preaching water conservation, tie
had no illusions about it. When drought
lay on the land, the land was ugly. Ho
scorned to paint romance where he saw
nothing romantic. Yet I never found m
Lawson the hatred that “J-E.” alleges.
“J.E.” quotes a stanza from Pigeon
Toes,” but he does not explain that Law-
son is therein describing the impressions
of a young girl. In “Bourke, also
quoted 'by “J.E.,” Lawson talks, I think
with a twinkle in his eye, of the ieariul
and blasphemous days of ninety-two. He
jokes about it, saying further on:
The only message from the dead that ever came
distinctly through
Was, “Send my overcoat to Hell ; it came to
Bourke in ninety-two.
Plenty of men joke about, the heat of
Bourke who do not dislike the West.
Again, “J.E.” quotes the first stanza of
“Song of the Darling River” and ends the
sixth line with a full stop. Lawson in those
first few lines painted a picture of drought-
stricken land, but added, after “And—
this is the Song of the Darling River”:
I rise in the drought from the Queensland rain,
I fill my branches again and again;
I drown dry gullies and lave ba v e hills,
I turn drought-ruts into rippling rills —
I form fair islands and glades all green
Till every bend is a sylvan scene.
I have’watered the barren land ten leagues wide!
But in vain I have tried, ah! in vain I have tried
To show as a sign from the Great All-Giver,
His word to a people: “Oh, lock your river.”
Surely that is enough to show why Lawson
wrote the words that “J.E.” quoted. In
“The Storm That Is to Come,” Lawson
sounds a warning in similar vein. No
hatred for the land in this verse:
I have pictured long in the land I love what the
land I love might be,
Where the Darling rises from Queensland rains and
the floods rush out to the sea.
And is it our fate to wake too late to the truth
that we have been blind,
With a foreign foe at our harbor-gate and a blazing
drought behind?
“J.E.,” after quoting a few honest verses
about a dry and barren land, says: “Yet
the legend persists that Lawson was a sturdy
admirer of the Bush!” Perhaps the follow-
ing lines will show where, the idea origin-
ated. Lawson after speaking about
wanderers whose hearts turn to the land
each loves best, says:
And I, to save my soul again,
Would tramp to sunsets grand
With sad-eyed mates across the plain
In the Never-Never Land.
In another poem he says that some day,
mad with care and pain, he will break away
“and seek the Bush again.” He also writes
of “where the glorious sunset on sweeps
of mulga glows.”
“J.E.” may now go back to his belief that
Lawson disliked the West, and I will con-
tinue in the belief that, although aware of
its faults, Lawson loved the Never-Never,
the Bush, the West, or whatever he chose
to call it. We find what we look to find.
N.E.H.
Australian Biography
The recent contribution to official Aus-
tralian war history of Arthur Jose, dealing
with such things as disrupted friendships,
disrespected censorships and disintegrating
battleships, was an excellent but cold parade
of facts. It lacked life and sympathy; and
this reviewer’s general impression of it, that
it represented merely a duty conscientiously
done, as distinct from something the author
had to do for his personal satisfaction, is
strongly supported by the fine work in
another volume of Mr. Jose’s just to hand,
Builders and Pioneers of Australia (Dent),
spontaneous and sincere biography untainted
by any odor of lamp-oil and as pleasing to
read for its manner as for its people.
The book is planned on broad national
lines: Mr. Jose is a Federalist unconcerned
with trumpery State parochialism. He sees
Australia whole, as a nation started on a
great career by Macquarie, and being built
up into- a greater thing than even that
statesman dreamed. Mr. Jose has chosen
his builders and pioneers according to that
plan; men who have contributed to the
furtherance of Australia as a united nation.
The best of the book’s contents is in the
chapters on the builders—Macquarie, Went-
worth, Parkes and Deakin—no doubt be-
cause these are so much bigger men all round
than the pioneers: Carstenszoon (explorer),
John Blaxland (farmer), Gregory Blaxland
(farmer and explorer), Simeon Lord (mer-
chant and manufacturer), Francis Howard
Greenway (architect), George Howe (printer
and journalist), William Hilton Hovell (ex-
plorer) and James King (inventor and viti-
culturist). There need be no hesitation
about commending the book to anyone who
wishes to become familiar with most of
the outstanding figures of Australia’s brief
past, and uncommonly fascinating figures
most of them are.
There is Lachlan Macquarie, champion of
the emancipists, the man who was sent to
Australia almost accidentally, who practi-
cally ended its career as a mere gaol and
set it fairly straight upon the road to what
it is and might be; who, as Mr. Jose says,
was depreciated, slandered and vilified by
bitter and narrow men, but of whom the
Sydney Gazette was able to record: “There
never was the individual yet, that had the
honor of treading Australia’s shore, more
eminently beloved than the late General
Macquarie.” More picturesque, at least, was
William Charles Wentworth, who among
other youthful enterprises competed at
Cambridge for the Chancellor’s medal for
English poetiy, the subject being “Austral-
asia.” The competition was won by no
less a poet than Winthrop Mackworth
Praed, who gathered in the same prize next
year with a verse on Athens, and whose
verse on Australasia was chiefly distin-
guished for its absurdity. Wentworth’s
principal ideals —trial by jury and freedom
for the press—are well enough known, and
perhaps the man himself is also well enough
•known for a fair echo to be raised by Mr.
Jose’s finding: “He had wisdom beyond his
contemporaries, and a patriotism that has
not yet been surpassed among his succes-
sors.”
Another of these builders who dipped into
verse in his youth was Henry Parkes, of
whose life and career Mr. Jose has fashioned
a packed and brilliant historical chapter.
Certainly Parkes makes a great subject for
the biographer. Rope-worker, ivory turner,
farm laborer, shopkeeper, journalist, member
of almost innumerable Parliaments, be-
getter of Australia’s schools, national integ-
rity and Commonwealth, friend of Carlyle
and Tennyson, and author of such verse
as—
I would not give my ragged Jane
For all the peacock ladies going.
She knows the way to banish pain—
What she don’t know is not worth knowing.
“Australia,” says Mr. Jose, “has proved
unkind to her greatest servants. Macquarie
left her a disappointed man to die un-
rewarded; Wentworth, the least unlucky,
had to spend his old age at the other end
of the world to avoid worse disappoint-
ment,” and Deakin, the last of this great
quartette, “shattered himself in the Com-
monwealth’s service and died many years
before his death.”
Whether Mr. Jose’s estimates of these and
the other men he appreciates are accurate
is a matter upon which only time can
decide. It seems enough for the present
that he has made a book that is very
readable, and which is not only a biography
but a friendly history of Australia’s social
and political progress, and a national-
spirited contribution to Australian historical
and biographical writing.
A Satchel of Books
Some More Drawings, by George Morrow
(Methuen). With examples of the work of
Knox, Milne, Lucas, Herbert, Armstrong and
now Morrow between covers, about the only
part of Punch that is not receiving fair
treatment from the book publishers is the
excellent advertising section. Well, Punch
always was worth looking at twice. Mor-
row might be specially commended to Aus-
tralian would-be funny artists: he does not
lean a badly-drawn couple of figures against
an absent background and trust to the merit
of. the gag to get the crudity translated into
a cheque—his funny drawings are themselves
funny.
Old Colonial By-ways. Issued by Art in
Australia in the format of their principal
publication, this is a collection of color and
black-and-white plates from etchings and
paintings by Sydney Ure Smith, with histori-
cal introduction, notes and commentaries by
that Old Sydney expert Charles 11. Bertie.
The production is generally excellent. Two
other fine issues by the same publishers are
the prints “Gum Blossoms” and “Wattle
Blossoms” from the lovely oils by Margaret
Preston in Sydney Art Gallery. “Gum Blos-
soms” is an unforgettable splash of colors;
the other is more conventional, but very
beautiful.
A Christmas Book (Dent). An odd sort
of anthology, compiled on the lines of a
hearty Christmas pudding, by D. B. VVynd-
liam Lewis and G. C. Ileseltine. It is made
of ballads, chronicles, songs, stories, carols,
poems, recipes and anecdotes “of all ages,
from St. Hilary of Poitiers to Mr. Pooter,
but omitting Dickens, Washington Irving,
Father Christmas, Good King Weneeslaus,
robins, property Yule-logs, synthetic snow, ye
olde Englysshe Yuletide cheer, and all mani-
festations of the colored Christmas supple-
ment.” A fine old mixture; better than
its model, because it rides lightly upon the
digestion.
The Closed Garden, by Julian Green •
(Heinemann). A remarkable novel in itself,
and for other reasons. Its author is an
American who works in the French language,
which possibly accounts for the English of
this translation being a trifle bare. But
notwithstanding that bareness, or the fact
that the story itself runs in an extremely
narrow groove, the novel, in its atmosphere
of a provincial French home and in the
depth and detailed thoroughness of its char-
acterisation, stands out of the rut as a fine
and forceful piece of high-class literature.
The centre figure is a young girl, suppressed
and harassed by a tyrant of a father and
an old-maid sister, and nursing a secret love
for an over-middle-aged doctor whom she has
never met. It is in the drawing of the dour
family that the author does masterly work,
but all that his pen touches—the house, the
street, the doctor's carriage—stands out alive.
A finished and unusual piece of work.
The Brass Check, by Upton Sinclair (T.
Werner Laurie: Robertson and Mullens).
The famous Socialist here tells the story
of his struggles to obtain a hearing in
American journalism. It is a pretty picture
of knavery, tut lacks conviction owing to
the writer’s prejudices. He apparently be-
lieves that under Socialism the truth would
automatically prevail. The facts are that for
every distortion printed in the Capitalist
press a similar distortion could be culled
from the Labor dailies. It may be true
that half of the Bolshevik excesses reported
in the capitalistic papers was invention, but
the belief current in Labor circles that the
Garden of Eden and the boundaries of the
Soviet are coterminous is no less founded on
lying propaganda. The truth is that the
average newspaper reader does not want
his reason appealed to, that faculty having
been left out of his make-up by an all-
seeing Providence. He only wants his
emotions played on. Until Allah is pleased
to turn homo NeandertaliensTs miraculously
into genuine homo sapiens, newspapers of
parties will continue to lie to the best of
their abilities.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Tinker’s Curse: Afraid we haven’t much
pity for the poor reader who has to turn over a few
pages to find the continuation of a story. Instead of
inferentially cursing the advertisers (who, of course,
are responsible), he ought to sing them a hosanna
for making it possible for him to still buy The
Bulletin at the same price as he paid when printing
paper cost less than half to-day’s figure and other
costs were a great deal less than half... .Wanko:
Much obliged ; but many and many a country paper
han done it. ...E.M.M.: The prentice hand is too
plain. But keep on. .. . W.T.C.: Thin... .Carrie T.:
Merit in it, but over-wrought. .. .Prickly J.: Thanks ;
“Chevroford’s” disused railway is us'ed by the Yarra
paper-mills. His license has been suspended....
V.C.W., J.E.P.: All but C.R.A.: Lacks human
interest... .J. B. Worthington: Yes, that tale was
stolen and sold to us. The man, threatened
with gaol, pleaded long idleness, a sick wife
and hungry family. His story was true.
Moreover, he had just got a job. Should
we have prosecuted him ?....Hermes: Good, if you
could put it in one-third the space.... Bert E.: In
all its experience The Bulletin never had the luck
to strike a lock-up sergeant like that. ... D.G.:
Basket smothered “The Voices of the Night”....
P. : You’ll probably recover—it’s natural to think
you can write poetry at 13....M.F.: As empty as a
football’s inside.... .Quander: “The Stockrider’s Old
Tale” would be a better name for it... .A.K.: Not
O.K A.M.: Nothing in that 10t....D.K.: As
you’re a first offender, the sentence will be light.
Twenty years.... K.M.: There is a buyer here for
a machine for exterminating poets who suffer from
memories... .L. 8.: You have laughed at our answers
to others, and send along verses so that they can
have the laugh back. It’s generous of you, bur
your verse doesn’t quite provoke us... .R.W.J.: You
call it “drivel.” We will not argue T.S.: “Pre-
historic Man” re-buried... .F.L.K.: Reflection that
“we’ll be a long time dead” is its most original
feature... .Aussie Mac: But is it worth saying?....
J.F.: Afraid you must let them fight it out them-
selves. .. .8.G.: You say nothing new about him.
. ...T.C.: That sort of thing needs to be extra-
ordinarily g00d.... M.C.: Fair idea, but you don’t
make out a very good case.... Patricia: As dull as
a broadcast lecture. .. .V.G.W.: Congratulations on
killing that bore.... W.R.: “Roses of Memory” hereby
declared noxious weeds R.M.J.: Very p00r....
Elm: Yes, you “might do something with it.”
Burn it, for a start... .8.R.: A wretched little thing.
... .C.M.C.G.: Your muse seems to have met with
an accident E.J.A.: If they’re humorous, the
return mailbag is in for a rollicking time....
Q. : M.T C.M.S.: If you really want to make
us sob, write us a verse about onions.... S.R.: Well
enough done, but immature.... Idle Thoughts: We’ll
admit the “idle”... .Zelos: Sorry you’ve abolished
Hell. Where are we to wish the poets to now?
. ...T.A.: No cement for your “trowel of beauti-
fication”... .E.R.R.: You must have patience. Read
the best short stories, analyse them and try to
master the art of construction... .L.C.S.: Handed to
the detective who “glared at Gertie and barked.”
. ...Arev: Brevity—and little else... .J.H.N.: No
paper money for “The Golden Wedding” M.G.:
Can’t find a corner for it D.W.T.: Not up to
the mark A.A.8.: Get yourself up as Santa Claus
and shove it down the chimney A.D.W.: Not
badly written, but it badly strains belief Skeeta:
Didn’t bite P.K.P.: Another injustice to Ireland.
H.B.: Merry widow waltzed into the w,p.b
W.T.W.: Best forgotten A.C.W.: Anecdote rather
than story 8.E.H.: Might suit a boys’ paper
E.S.: Axeman will have to find his own chops....
I'.N.J.: Rest cure continued... .C. 8.: On the rocks.
S.C.: Still a loser W.T.: No taxable income
from this office. .. .J. 8.: Good luck to the old boys;
sorry can’t send cash... .C.M.M V : Preposterously
long sentences in your “short” story. Novels for
competition must be sent in ' under pen-names....
R.D.: No dinner for “Father O’Flynn” R.N.:
The idea has been used before with a different setting.
Showman: The exemption under the British
entertainment tax is 6d.; the tax is Id. on 7d.,
2d. on 9d. to Is. Id., 3d. on Is. 3d., 4d. on Is.
4d. to 25., 6d. on 2s. Id. to 35., and so on until it
i-j 2s. on 15s. and an additional 6d. for every ss.
after that. In N. S. Wales the exemption is 2s.
54d Historicuss: Dr. Watson received compen-
sation for the cancellation of his arrangement with
the Commonwealth for the preparation of historical
records; £l3OO was the amount.... Red R.: You
are hopelessly wrong. Crude death rates: Australia,
if. 4; Russia, 22.9. Rate of infantile mortality
Australia, 54; Russia, 248 Sandstone: One round
of your boxing ballad: —
Old Billy Murphy’s portrait—
’Twas in Tiie BuLleteen —
It took me back to other days
And bruisers I have seen.
Joe Goddard, Joe Choynski
And Burge—old Ironbark Jim.
One night his second had to pin
An eyebrow nearly bashed off him.
Outed on a f0u1... .Meta: The highest shade tempera-
ture recorded in Sydney during the last half-century
was 108.5 on January 13, 1896; the lowest was
35.9, July 12, 1890 C.J.D.: “How, indeed, did
old Sam meet his tragic end?” With a halter, one
hopes.... Melisande: When you get it back, burn
it. Yallun: Nice sentiment nicely written; try a
ladies’ paper R.1.G.: Strains probability....
T.E.: Send stamps and we’ll return.... E.R.R.:
Digger’s shot goes wide... .T.W.8.: “The moralist,
what is his decision?” Office censor says “the
basket.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.R.: No dough for your cake-shop gag. ...A.W.:
If that’s the seaside, give us the Nullarbor Plain. . . .
H.W.A.: The whole office stopped work to look at
your picture of a train... .1.E.8.: Away with your
three old tabbies!.... C.W.: No use for tattooed
abo. with Mongol head.. .. W.S.F.R.: Get Dave out
of the sun —his face is beginning to melt. .. . V.K.:
Sweep-promoter swept 0ut....E.8.: Your trans-
pacific fliers arrived too late. .. ,C.E.: Fisherman
will have to lie elsewhere.


gd
fg
A _
tm
73% » 4Ntk<
iffw\ f/j
<>V'.‘ V'
# • ,
«•/
.:>
f/1
:i
■
' f
5^ : . r :
/ J w
4
■- - yy • y i mmi
r *• f v a^M*-
. *
i
1 ,xr ?
u 2 *
af Western
mmik I
«JE\ 1
■
-* •:•. :
r
Our registered Great Western
Sparkling Wine label has been
shamefully copied. We warn th§
public against spurious imitations.
o?
c^i


The Bulletin
Vol. 49. —No. 2548.
December 12, 1928.
FOR EVER ENGLAND’S.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man."
HEAD OFFICE:
214 George Street, Sydney.
Victoria : 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London: 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to anv address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To a£y address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid. ;
each additional 40z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: h»z. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
“For Ever England’s”
—A cartoon by Lea son .. . 7
EDITORIAL ' B> 9
Towards Peace .. 8
Popularity that Pays 8
Micawber Re-appears 8
A DRAWING BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) .. .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . . . . . 11,12
PERSONAL 14
“The Convert”
—A cartoon by Scorfield . . . . . . . . 15
POVERTY POINT 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
Automatic Totes .. 18
United Insurance .. 18
Robert Reid 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 23, 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
MAN ON THE LAND . . .. . . 28, 29
SMOKE-011 32
“BRACKEN” 34. 57, 58-
PEN AND PICTURE 37
New Movies .. 37
Sporting (illustrated) .. 39, 41, 42
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER .. .. ..44
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
“Coonardoo” 51, 53
COMPLETE STORY—
“The Black Box”
—By Arthur Groom . . . . . . .. 66
VERSE 63, 58
JTuffyulleiz/yi
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1928.
TOWARDS PEACE.
The Industrial Peace Conference meets in
the shadow of warfare of a sort never before
waged in Australia. The long succession of
bombing outrages in Melbourne cannot be
dissociated from the turmoil on the water-
front that preceded them, and they are
associated in the minds of many people,
including thoughtful unionists, with the
Communist adjuration to “Take and hold
the means of production and distribution by
revolutionary action.” Now that ruffians
have explained with gelignite what this
means to them, Australian Labor-unionism
should be in the mood to recognise that we
can never solve our problems on such lines,
but must find some less spectacular and less
revolting way of our own.
* * * *
What are our industrial problems? One
of the most urgent of them is the reform
of the arbitration system. It is too cum-
brous, too slow and too costly; and the
overlapping and conflict of Federal and
State functions make for continual friction.
The principle is all right, but the adminis-
tration is all wrong; at times it appears to
create more strife than it appeases. Both
wage-earners and employers have reason for
discontent. The latter, especially if they
are manufacturers, are under the strain of
having to comply with the terms of many
awards and of resisting repeated sectional
demands that, if granted, would occasion
discontent and provoke new demands
in all other sections of their industry.
In addition to the awards and the
anxiety they entail, there is a multiplicity
of other laws and regulations, such as the
N.S.W. Forty-four Hour Week and Family
Endowment measures, all benevolently
intended, but all imposing burdens on indus-
try from which the foreigners who compete
in our market are free. Industry, in short,
is outrageously over-regulated. For this
there is no remedy that the conference can
apply, but a frank statement of the position
by the employers and a frank recognition
on the trade-unionists’ part that running a
business nowadays is no joke would be help-
ful. It would at least tend to expedite the
necessary process of making the Common-
wealth exclusively responsible for industrial
law and the machinery of arbitration, as it
is exclusively responsible for the tariff.
Another subject the conference might pro-
fitably discuss is that of direct taxation.
Present methods press with especial severity
upon struggling manufacturing concerns and
small investors. In New South Wales first
charges on a company’s profits are a State
tax which goes up to 3s. 3d. in the £ and
a Federal tax of Is. in the £l. And before
profits can be declared there are municipal
rates, workers’ compensation charges, Fed-
eral land-tax and the child-endow T ment-tax,
which is to be reimposed. On no other form
of investment does the tax-gatherer levy
such heavy toll. The result is that, while
in the United States and other great manu-
facturing countries a vast amount of the
money invested in industry is drawn from'
people with moderate incomes, many of
them wage-earners, the Australian manu-
facturer finds this rich source of capital
barred against him. One obvious remedy
is to tax dividends in the hands of share-
holders instead of at the source. This
would mean that the small investor would
be charged about Is. in the £ instead of 4s.
or more. With the income-tax thus made
equitable and means provided for the pur-
chase of shares in small lots, there would be
a marked increase of investment in indus-
trial companies, and the effect on employ-
ment and production would be very great.
>'/ * * *
Australia’s fundamental problem is finan-
cial. It imports a great deal more than
it can afford. It must obviously manu-
facture more and import less. It possesses
an ample supply of raw materials, a splen-
did home market and a fairly good tariff;
but even the best of tariffs can yield only
limited benefits when industry is excessively
regulated and ignorantly taxed.
POPULARITY THAT PAYS.
“Constable X., while endeavoring to effect an
was set upon by a gang of roughs and badly
mauled. Passers-by made no attempt to go to his
assistance.”— Typical newspaper item.
A great Australian Judge once drew atten-
tion to the defencelessness of the Bench.
“We have no armed bodies to enforce our
decisions or protect our persons,” he said,
“and yet our authority is as great as if we
had.” Something the same might be said
of the British police, who, like bur Judges,
but unlike our police, carry no lethal
weapons. Very rarely is one attacked, and
left to his fate by the crowd.
* 4= 48 *
One reason is that the British public feel
towards their police much as w r e feel towards
our Judges. The policeman’s personal pres-
tige has been recognised for years by the
Home Office, and by his chiefs, as one of
his principal assets, and it is scientifically
cultivated. He undergoes a rigorous train-
ing in courtesy and forbearance. Last year,
to decide a bet, a Londoner asked a traffic
policeman in the city six pre-arranged ques-
tions, all idiotic. If the policeman had
lost his temper the questioner would have
lost his bet, but the policeman did not.
London policemen never do. They may be
seen constantly looking after the welfare
of old ladies, cripples, children and even
dogs—anything at all that is helpless—and
the heart of the populace warms at such
spectacles. It does not mean, of course, that
these assiduous giants are more humanitarian
than their fellow-countrymen in the C 3
class. They are schooled to be benevolent
as a matter of public policy, and the trait
is emphasised loyally in the press and else-
where in the same way as, say, the demo-
cratic nature of the Prince of Wales. If
Bairn seat her’s “Old Bill” drawings were
worth an army corps during the war, as
alleged by the professional propagandists,
then oft-reproduced Academy pictures like
“His Majesty the Baby” (showing a Lon-
don “bobby” escorting a perambulator over
a crowded crossing) have a similar value
in times of peace.
* * 4: *
Australia’s policemen are not nearly so
popular as their devotion to duty and high
courage entitle them to be. In this re-
spect they resemble the policemen of the
U.S.A., whose forthright methods they are
disposed to imitate, if not the autocratic
French police, who are disliked intensely by
all who come into contact with them. The
average traffic constable in one of our great
cities is affable, as a rule, to the possessor
of a familiar face or an expensive motor-car,
but he can be oafish to puzzled strangers
and the poor. Women and children get no
particular consideration from him. He is
not the servant of the citizens but their
temporary master, and he lets his subjects
know it. He has a tendency, often, to
“throw his weight about,” which is what
no policeman should do. These things are
realised, if only sub-consciously, by the
public, and when one of the Olympians
strikes trouble the supply of enthusiasts
ready to risk injury or death by rushing to
his assistance is limited.
4= 4: 4= 4=
It would be a boon to the police if all
the State forces were subjected to a tighten-
ing-up process in the matter of their attitude
towards law-abiding citizens. Better man-
ners, more toleration and helpfulness to-
wards all classes, a greater readiness to
register kindliness and a desire to serve
should be the slogan. The police would find,
presently, that they had made warm friends
and allies of people who at present regard
most of them as needlessly truculent officials
who carry loaded revolvers, and probably
have no reluctance to use them.
MICAWBER RE-APPEARS.
Somebody convened a special meeting of
the Federal Institute of Accountants in
Sydney to consider the monetary straits of
N. S. Wales as shown in the Income-tax
Bill. As the S. M. Herald tells the tale:
“The board of the institute was satisfied
that other means could be adopted to meet
the financial situation. The need for the
bill appeared to have arisen from the read-
justment of the railway accounts, by which
the losses upon developmental lines were to
be charged to consolidated revenue. Pend-
ing the possible abolition of State Parlia-
ments, with their expensive paraphernalia,
there were many reforms which could be
instituted. The chairman moved that to
avoid destructive taxation, the losses upon
developmental railways should be funded in-
stead of being charged to consolidated re-
venue. The motion was carried.”
It is no small achievement to have mussed
up the situation so completely in so small
a space.
* * * >5
There has been no readjustment of
accounts which introduces any new prin-
ciple of charging the losses on develop-
mental railways to consolidated revenue.
Figures may have been taken from under the
heading of Tweedledum and included in
Tweedledee, but the losses have been
charged against consolidated revenue all
the time, with occasional help from uncon-
solidated deficit. And although Westralia
has shown a small surplus now and then,
there have been nothing but losses on the
aggregate railways for 14 years. This is
the position:—
Losses on Seven Railway Systems.
1914- £1,132,204
1915- 1,410,080
1916- 1,914,944
1917- 1,966,587
1918- 2,694,879
1919- 2,292,471
1920- 4,115,997
1921- 2,452,587
1922- . . . .- . . 1,590,697
1923- 1,562,992
1924- 833,008
1925- 3,120,737
Or £7,103,051 including old deprecia-
tion written off in S.A.
1926- 3,814,583
Or £5,776,662 including old decay
■written off in S.A.
1927- (about) .. .. 6,001,627
And returns for the first quarter of 1928-
29 show no promise. If it was possible to
fund losses like these and leave them to
lead a peaceful existence in the bosom of
the public debt, the new interest bill thus
created would have little difficulty in reach-
ing £2,000,000 per annum in 10 years. In
process of time there would be the same
cause to fund the interest on the funded
losses as to fund the losses themselves.
# * * *
An element of humor appears in the
proposition that the situation might be
dealt with by “the abolition of the State
Parliaments with their expensive parapher-
nalia.” The State Parliament of N. S.
Wales is more expensive than the average,
costing nearly twice as much as its Vic-
torian brother. Yet in the last year for
which figures are available, the N.S.W.
legislative bill, Governor included, was
£229,246, and the money was at least spent
in the country. One of the State’s 17
luckless railways, the North Coast affair,
lost £239,577 in the same year, and all that
money, with £126,000 added, was wanted
outside the country to meet the demands
of creditors. Then even if the State Legis-
latures were abolished the Commonwealth
would have to set up ruling paraphernalia
of its own. That might cost more than the
present affair. To judge by the Northern
Territory experience it would.
•4= 4: 4= *
It is a pity that the Institute of Account-
ants accepted the bald assurance “that
there are many reforms which could be
instituted” in a bad situation which is
getting worse, and progressed no further
than the proposal to put railway deficits
into the public debt to avoid paying them.
It would be better to consider a general
suspension of new railway construction and
a closure of the worst species of existing
works—the dead-ends which don’t even pay
working costs. Still, as already mentioned,
“the motion was carried.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Exit Maling.
The downfall of Silas Maling, assistant-
manager of Sydney Electricity Department,
convicted over the receipt of £10,000 "sec-
ret commission,” was composed of a series
of misadventures. The unexpected velocity
of the Bavinshaw Government in suspend-
ing the old City Council made time for
action rather scarce. Maoriland is a handy
place to make for, being reachable without
a passport, but it is also a place*with in-
sufficient facilities as a starting point for
parts unknown, and the Law is apt to be
after the absconder before he can find the
facilities. It would probably have been
better to avoid this alluring but deceptive
outlet, and to go into Australia’s vast in-
terior disguised as a bullock. Then the loot
passed through the hands of rather many
intermediaries, and when one of them was
called upon to pay income-tax on it he
naturally disclaimed ownership.
The principal plea for the defence was
poor, but it is hard to see that anything
better was available. The Constitution
says that the Federal Parliament “shall have
power to make laws with respect to trade
and commerce with other countries and
among the States,” and the point was argued
that this gave the Federal Courts the ex-
clusive right to deal with a case where a
bribe was taken to influence a contract in
which imported materials would be em-
ployed as well as Australian labor. The
facts that Maling got into trouble for
alleged evasion of income-tax and was also
rushed through the Divorce Court were
mere side issues, but the former sug-
gests a possibility that in future the burglar
or embezzler on a large scale may find
extra trouble awaiting him for not including
the loot in his income return.
The sentence was six months with £SOO
fine, or some more gaol if the £SOO isn’t
forthcoming, and it won’t be forthcoming if
the income-tax people get there in time.
♦
In the Matter of Fantod Pasha.
An unexpected witness was lately cited
by a borrowing daily in support of the
theory that Australia may go on raising
loans ad lib. with a clear conscience and a
clean shirt. The authority given was that
of the librarian at Australia House, Lon-
don, a' man who' should have time for
thought. His alleged tale is that gadders
from this country spend at the very least
£2,500,000 a year on the other side, where-
fore it is proved that our nation is the
richest per head on earth. This is judging
the solidity of a community, like that of an
absconding solicitor, by its spendings.
After the Crimean War Britain in particu-
lar made a pet of the Unspeakable Turk,
with the result that he raised 14 external
loans (£184,981,783) inside 20 years. They,
too, were understood to be for permanent
and reproductive works. The lavish spend-
ing of the Sultan and certain princes in
London and Paris was held to be proof of
Turkey’s solid prosperity, and in the same
way the millions scattered every year by
jaunting Russian princes demonstrated the
absolute soundness of Russia—till the
bottom fell out of the concern. But at the
end of 20 years something went amiss. The
Abdul-Aziz Government announced having
discovered with surprise that much of the
new loans had gone to pay interest and
sinking funds on old ones. Abdul undertook
to do his best. He promised to pay half the
interest in cash and half in new bonds;
but nine months later he postponed every-
thing till better times came—which they
didn’t. There were subsequent mixed
doings, but Abdul’s British creditors mostly
sold out in the first panic for a scrap in the
£. The same sort of thing is still liable to
happen.
Unfortunately Abdul’s compromise with
his creditors presently went off on lines of
its own, and ceased to be a guide to Aus-
tralia. The local Head of the Church
(Shei.k-ul-Islam) ordered the Sultan’s de-
position as an uncertificated bankrupt
or something, it being a quaint law in
old Turkey that the Head of the
Church could remove the Head of
the State, though the latter occasion-
ally got in first, and removed the head
of the Head of the Church. At any
rate, Fantod Pasha, or some similar person,
rushed the palace by night, fell over many
black slaves, dispersed the chief eunuch, an
immense negro in a nightshirt and carrying
a torch, and confronted the royal defaulter,
who was dressed in pyjamas and a sword.
He might have died with dignity, however
poorly he had lived, but the harem was
aroused, and his mother and aunt, both in
night attire and carrying candles, beguiled
him to surrender. Thereupon Abdul-Aziz
committed suicide, presumably with assist-
ance, and thus brought the first chapter of
the Turkish Book of Financial Embarrass-
ment to a picturesque finish.
A Home-owning Vote.
“I do believe in Labor’s cause
As far away as Scullin is.”
—Lowell amended.
At the N. S. Wales municipal elections
Labor made a tremendous effort to “vote
Labor councils into office everywhere.”
Federal notabilities such as Theodore
issued trumpet-calls to the faithful, and ex-
Premier Lang did what he could for the
cause in Auburn and thereabouts. There
was a Brisbane Test-match flavor about the
result: it was a rout. Almost as complete
a one as Labor suffered in Greater Brisbane
at each of its attempts to capture the council
there. Yet both N.S.W. and Queensland
have adult franchises in the municipal
sphere, and both are claimed by Labor to be
overwhelmingly Laborite.
Meetings have been held in a number of
Sydney suburbs during the past week to
discuss the disaster, and try to solve the
mystery of it. An obvious explanation has
been overlooked. The modern Australian
worker is tending more and more to be a
capitalist; he owns his home, or is well on
the way to do so. Politically, he is still a
Laborite. Any Parliamentary candidate who
advocated a reduction in the millions that
are spent annually on education, health,
pensions and the social services generally
would be doomed. Economy is not popular
under democratic government in the re-
moter spheres of national or State expendi-
ture. But it is different in the region where
charity is said to begin.
Under Labor’s scheme of a Greater Syd-
ney—which, as a matter of practical politics,
can never come into being till Labor domi-
nates the municipal position—the party
which won such an unsavory administrative
reputation at Sydney Town Haul will stand
to control every service (transport, gas,
electricity, water, etc.) and every amenity
such as swimming-baths and sports-grounds
in_ Sydney and suburbs. The rates, it may
fairly be assumed, will soar to the firmament,


even if graft -is excluded. That, without
the slightest doubt, is what Laborites in and
around Sydney had at the back of the.r
minds when they voted against their party s
endorsed candidates at the recent elections;
and Labor’s reputation for employing two
men to do one man’s job, wherever possible,
must have done its candidates much harm
amongst householders in the country.
♦
Where the Money Goes.
“Copabella”: Nothing better discloses that
bourne whence no dividend returns than a
journey on the grand trunk railway that
links the five mainland States. Not mile
after mile, but score after score of miles,
country carrying not a hoof or a soul, not
even the far-distant silver of a roof-top,
invites the question: What policy or whim
of man caused this line to be built?
The Queensland coastal line is the worst
instance, for that State had ports, in many
cases ports with development lines going
inland where settlement demanded service,
to give outlet to towns (nearly all on the
coastal belt) which needed communication
with their capital and the rest of Aus-
tralia. The result of the rail-buildmg has
been to kill the ports and their sea-borne
service; yet the great unsettled gaps along
thq, railway route remain the virgin countiy
they were when the line began to lose
money in pursuit of their develop-
ment 50 or more years before.
In N. S. Wales squattages flank
for miles the main trunk line. Even
where a town breaks the monotony
of rail-fence and eucalypt, too
often the town is no more of a
town than it was when the railway
was built, and sometimes it is less
of one. Even in little, allegedly all-
alienated Mictoria there are the
same townless miles and square
miles to be seen from railway-car
windows. In South and West Aus-
tralia a sort of inverted pride is
taken in the vast stretches of
straight rails that serve nothing but
someone’s desire to get from one
point to another rather more quickly
than yesterday. Irony of ironies, on
some of the trunk routes —particu-
larly in Queensland —the journey is
no faster than it was 40 years earlier.
Gold accounted for some of the
waste lines, and (by reason of the
dividends drawn during the boom
from that ephemeral industry) per-
haps justified the pushing of a line
through miles of Nowhere to reg-ch
Somewhere. Others, however, sug-
gest nothing but politics and the
desire of someone to enhance the
value of property at Logroll or
Gerrymander. Save for the need to
reach those still unawakened
Arcadies the line might well have
waited 50 more years.
Wriest and biggest joke to be
seen from windows on the grand
trunk train, however, is the newest—
the loan-money motor road running
alongside the railway it is destined
to make even less reproductive than
it is now! Miles of these, in all
the States—probably the result of
Federal aid—now lend humor to a
long railway journey. Especially is
the humor fresh and keen when
pacing with the money-losing train
is a motor-lorry blazoned with invi-
tations to countryfolk to patrdhise
that vehicle for light goods and
quick delivery of parcels and people-
♦
An Anomaly In Divorce.
Never was business so brisk in the
N. S. Wales divorce courts as it is
to-day. Three Judges work steadily
on a list of cases that keeps just as
steadily ahead of them, though the
average rate is reckoned to be one
divorce in three-quarters of an hour.
Still more Judges will be needed if
supply is to overtake demand.
The framers of the N.S.W. Matri-
monial Causes Act, when making
provision for the process known as
“the restitution of conjugal rights,”
did not contemplate the opening up
of a short cut to divorce by means
of connivance between the parties, with de-
liberate perjury. Yet that, frankly, is what
it means. The flood of petitions in recent
years is not the legitimate outcome of the
declared grounds for divorce in the Act, but
the result of a fatal weakness in one of its
provisions—thought to be impregnable be-
cause it was buttressed by an oath.
Yet in a State where divorce is made thus
easy for the unscrupulous, legitimate relief
is denied in a class of cases where humanity
and justice demand it. The unfortunate
partner in a union where one spouse has
been stricken with insanity—not. a passing
but a permanent phase—can get no dissolu-
tion of the marriage.
In Victoria divorce may be granted where
the respondent is proved to have been of
unsound mind for not less than five years
within the six years immediately preceding
the filing of the petition. It is the same m
Queensland. In N. S. Wales though a hus-
band or wife may have been in an asylum
for half a lifetime the sane partner is
shackled to the insane until death parts
them.
Surely while men and women crowd to
the divorce courts as gaily as to any other
sort of comedy, it would not add greatly to
the burden of the Judges to give them power
of relief in cases where one or other spouse
is linked to little more than a corpse, so far
as marriage is concerned.
• 4
Bull’s Coal.
“The situation in the mining areas of Britain has
no parallel within living memory. A salient feature
is that the mining industry is unlikely to re-employ
a large proportion of the workless. The ultimate
solution consists of migration from devastated areas
to somewhere, either home or overseas, where there
are opportunities for starting afresh under more
hopeful auspices.”—British Minister Neville Cham-
berlain.
It is a dismal tale, but in a country like
England and Wales, with a population of
660 to the square mile, distress is always
possible. In 1926 Britain invested in a
short-lived general strike and a long-lived
coal strike, and between the two it lost
161,456,000 days’ work. Coal production,
which had been 280,430,000 tons in 1923,
fell to 126,278,000 tons in 1926, and then
recovered to 260,000,000 tons in 1927. But
prices never returned to the old level, and
1928 has been a bad year, partly through
the increasing use of oil fuel and partly
through increased competition.
In 1927, while the British coal output
made a recovery of 134 million tons, that
of the U.S. dropped by 45 million tons, but
against that the U.S. produces its own
petroleum, while Britain’s output of 279
tons (1926) is of small value commercially.
Yet the fact remains that Britain’s earn-
ings abroad in 1926, by trading, money-
SEND HIM VICTORIOUS!
lending and carrying goods for other people,
were about £465,000.000, which put the
balance of trade right, despite the Old
Man’s Freetrade and importing craze, and
enabled him to keep his public debt from
any sudden and violent' increase.
Meanwhile Australia has just made up its
trade accounts for four months, July
to October inclusive, with the usual result.
By reason of buying from people abroad
more than its exports will pay for, and mak-
ing no provision for its liabilities abroad
except by writing a new lOU, it has gone
to the bad, or gone further into debt, by
some £21,000,000, which is at the rate of
£63,000,000 per annum. Of this, £10,000.000
is excess of imports over exports. But,
despite this disastrous state of things, the
imports are much less than for the July-
October period of 1927, and the customs
revenue is consequently less than it was
and less than the Treasurer reckoned on, and
he doesn’t see how things can get better
with the revenue unless imports increase
and make the demand for foreign loans
worse. In fact, the situation, like the coal
position in England, has no parallel within
living memory. And the spectacle of a
spacious and thinly-peopled country per-
sistently consuming too much and not pro-
ducing enough, and consequently cultivating
out-of-workness as if it was a precious herb,
has no known historical parallel either.
Is Economy Practicable.
“P.M.”: The other day a friend 9f mine
sent a parcel to the next station, six miles
away. Freight per passenger train, 2s. lid.
The porter forgot to put it on the train,
and the S.M. told him it could go by the
goods that evening—freight, Is. 3d. “Righto, ’
said my friend, “give me Is. Bd. and we’ll
be quits.” Oh dear, no! He had to part
up the Is. 3d. goods-train freight, and send
a written claim for 2s. lid. to head office,
nearly 200 miles away, and explain why
he wanted a refund. Can you imagine a
business firm putting up with that sort of
nonsense?
Before leaving for the other side in 1916
I put in a few months at Victoria Bar-
racks relieving permanent clerks on holi-
days, and the amount of make-work red-
tape I ran up against was astounding. One
job I struck was the supply of furniture.
If an officer came in and asked me to get
him a new cushion for his swivel chair, I
had to make out a foolscap requisition form
in quadruplicate; one I filed, one was sent
to the District Records Branch for filing,
and two Were sent to the Home Affairs De-
partment, which filed one and sent the
fourth copy to the constructing firm. The
firm would send a cushion along by carrier,
and after a lot more filling in of account
forms, and other formalities, they would get
their cheque.
One day a staff officer who had lost a
leg on Gallipoli came in and asked me to
get him a cushion as soon as possible, as
he had none and it was irritating his stump.
I immediately typed out five copies of the
requisition, handed four to the messenger,
and jumped on the tram and went up
Swanston-street with the fifth copy. I went
to the firm who supplied the cushions,
obtained one, gave the salesman the dupli-
cate requisition and signed my name on it
as a receipt until the Home Affairs Depart-
ment should see fit to act in the important
matter. All would have gone well had not
the old sergeant-major in charge of my de-
partment been in the staff-officer’s room
when I returned with the cushion. The old
chap was horrorstruck. He hauled me before
the major, who assured me that if such a
serious offence occurred again it would cer-
tainly mean a court-martial.
All this sort of thing is done with a
definite purpose. There is many a Govern-
ment head with a staff of a dozen men
doing a job that a private firm would do
with two men and a typist. The Govern-
ment official’s aim is to have as big a staff
as possible under him, which adds to his
importance and commaiids a higher salary.
The sum that it costs the taxpayers of Aus-
tralia to thus keep men in sinecures is
enormous,
Perilous Filth.
Sydney is an eye and throat specialists’
paradise, and, though the possessor of one of
the best climates on earth, it is an all-the-
year-round haunt of the “common cold.”
One of the reasons was supplied in the
N.S.W. Assembly a few days ago. A Labor-
ite spoke—presumably with his tongue in
his cheek—of the “condition of dreadful dirti-
ness into which the city was drifting under
the Civic Commission.” Actually, of course,
it is no dirtier than it was under the Council
regime, when £lB,OOO p.a. more was blewed
on its purification—most of it on the wages
of cleaners who never cleaned.
Sydney has always been filthy, relatively
to other civilised cities. Most of its sub-
urbs have always featured a generous sup-
ply of refuse in their main streets; it has
always cherished dust-piles, large and small,
ready to be blown into the faces and on to
the clothes and exposed wares of the citizen
by its vigorous sub-tropical breezes; and some
of the railings of its parks, with their
accumulation of jettisoned newspapers, have
always produced the effect of discolored
snowdrifts half an hour after the arrival
of a southerly.
Yet the citizens are as fastidious in then-
personal habits as those of any city, and a
good deal more so than the citizens of, say,
Rome, which now ranks with Dublin—once
a by-word for dirtiness—as an object-lesson
in sanitary tidiness. Most Sydney-
ites are as neat in their homes as
they are in their persons. Vacuum-
cleaners, kelvinators, incinerators
and the like appeal to them as
much as they do to New Yorkers.
For years the city has been con-
spicuous for health chats in the
papers, hygiene lectures in halls, and
“swat-that-fly” campaigns in the
suburbs. And for years, also, it has
been conspicuous for persons who
spit on pavements, and make garb-
age-tips of streets, and are not so
much as chidden for it by the
authorities.
The blame for Sydney’s admit-
tedly disgusting condition was
attributed recently to the inhabit-
ants’ “lack of a proper civic sense.”
As though the citizens, having given
a high figure for the dog, were to be
expected to do its barking! The
Free State Government solved this
problem so far as Dublin was con-
cerned by calling in a firm of con-
tractors, and it begins to look as
if some drastic step of the kind will
have to be taken eventually in
Sydney. More money, is being
wasted, probably, in the form of
depreciated health and property—
all preventable losses—than would
be required to support the largest
street-cleaning squad on record and
equip it fully with the latest labor-
saving devices.
O
The Melbourne bomb outrages
have shaken up the process of
mechanising the police. There are
to be five fast patrol cars instead
of three, and 50 motor-cycles are
to replace the same number of
horses at country stations; there are
already 30 of these mobile machines
in the city area. Before he puts
the new patrol cars on the road,
Commissioner Blamey might furbish
up what he learnt in France about
the art of camouflage. The present
fleet are now so familiar to the
underworld that their value as
crook-chasers is seriously diminished.
♦
“Towerist”: In the past there was
a considerable blending of white and
black right throughout the Pacific,
and there is still no law except that
of public opinion to prevent such
unions taking place. Many valu-
able properties are passing back to
the ownership of half-castes, and
the years devoted to building up
fine estates will be eventually lost
to the white community. Germany
in the Pacific, finding that a dis-
colored German was not a great
asset, enacted that a white man lost certain
civil rights if he took a native wife. But
the British don’t seem at all particular.
-■■■■ ♦
“Sol Malaprop” : It seems to me that the
Australian tripper, back from Britain with
the regulation tale of Bull’s poverty, is
blind to important evidence to a point at
which blindness, however unanimous, ceases
to be a virtue. During the last few jrnars
it has become customary to publish an
annual estimate of Britain’s income from
savings invested and services (shipping work
and the like) rendered abroad. Our own
authorities publish estimates of what Aus-
tralia has to pay abroad for the use of
borrowed money, the hire of other people’s
ships, and the like. The two compare
thus:—
Britain
Received from Australia Paid to
Outside Debtors. Outside Creditors.
1924 . . £435.009,000 £28,500,000
1925 . . 449,000,000 29,500,000
1926 .. 465,000,000 32,000,000
1927 .. Not yet to hand. 32,900,000
Only estimates, of course, but they are
pretty reliable, in view of the fact that
Britain has always some more savings to
lend while Australia has always a fresh
desire to borrow.


RAIMCI kPIOTOB SPIRIT
Shell is the choice of the critical motorist who
must have a well-balanced Motor Spirit.
gd
SHELL
MOTOR SPIRIT
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
S.6B<
POLITICAL
POINTS
If anything comes of the Industrial Peace
Conference, opened at Melbourne, it will come
of collective bargaining at meetings from
which press and public are excluded. Solid
and good-natured Wallace Bruce, ex-mayor of
Adelaide and ex-president of the Associated
Chambers of Commerce, never wielded the
gavel over a more strangely assorted bunch.
It ranges from white-haired captains of in-
dustry to a young man whispered to be the
most uncompromising Communist in Austra-
lia. Shaw once said that if 50 employers
changed clothes with 50 of their employees
nobody would know the difference; but the
17 union representatives on the left of Bruce
are as sharply differentiated from the 20
employers on his right as a song is from a
balance-sheet. Not in clothing but in tem-
perament.
A curious feature of
the S. Aus. Senate
poll was that the three
Laborites, who were
elected, were behind in
four of the seven
House of Reps, divi-
sions. The great Labor
vote in Hindmarsh,
which takes in Port
Adelaide, decided the
issue, and for this the
studious Norman
Makin can claim some
credit. Hindmarsh
went Nationalist dur-
ing the war. Poor old
Archibald, who was to
die broke, won it in
that interest with 4000
votes to spare, and
took a lot of shifting
at the first post-war
election. M a k i n’s
majority that year
was less than a thou-
sand ; last month it
was just on 20,000.
Norman Makin.
Maoriland’s Coates Ministry has been de-
feated by 50 to 28 on a no-confidence motion
moved by lOUseph Ward. Counting friendly
independents, Ward’s crowd numbers only
31 in a House of 80, but some Reformers
and more Laborites are willing to give
lOUseph an opportunity of fulfilling a few
of his glowing promises. The old. optimist’s
principal difficulty at the moment is the lack
of experienced Oabineteers. So many of his
followers are raw recruits.
The essential feature of the Ward pro-
gramme, if not the whole programme, is to
borrow £70,000,000 cheaply in England, pro-
vided England is able and willing, and lend
£60,000,000 of it out on mortgage to farmers
at the narrowest possible margin above the
borrowing rate. If the event comes off it
will shove up land prices, as abundance of
cheap money always does, and when the
big loan has finished coming in and there
is still the big interest going out these
inflated values will have plenty of room to
come down again. The big loan is a simple
elementary appeal which anybody can under-
stand, blit the position will be grotesque
if lenders have no use for business at the
terms.
The N.S.W. Bavin-
shaws are annoyed
with ex-Premier Joe
Carruthers, especially
those who served in the
Fuller Ministry with
him. They expected
some help from Joseph
in a trying situation,
and complain that they
have got nothing from
him but querulous criti-
cism. However, they
avenged themselves to
some extent when Car-
ruthers moved in the
Leg. Council that two-
thirds of the aldermen
for any ward should be
elected by ratepayers
and one-third under
the new adult fran-
chise. The result of
the local - government
elections made this pro-
postil rather ridiculous,
but the old gentleman
persisted in going on
with it. The Bavin-
Ex-Premier
Carruthers.
shaws grinned delightedly when it was flat-
tened out by 29 to 8.
The Molonglo, the “river” on which Can-
berra stands, has shrunk to a miserable,
disease-ridden trickle, so dangerous that the
Commission, hag had to prohibit all swim-
ming sports in it. Yet this is the stream
which, according to the original plan, was
to be dammed to form a large ornamental
lake so that civil servants could take their
typists for a row on moonlight nights.
Latest official estimates are that the wheat
harvest will be 160,000,000 bushels. This
will be less than the figure for 1915-16, 1924-
25 or 1926-27, though Minister McCallum
predicts that the Westralian estimate of
30,000,000 bushels will be greatly exceeded.
Since the first successful crop big enough
for mention was reaped around Bathurst in
1816, wheat has had many ups and downs,
and the distance between the top of the up
and the bottom of the down has been con-
siderable.
The attitude of those Americans who are
clamoring for disarmament and an over-
whelming navy moved a member of the Com-
mons to ask how the bloated naval prepara-
tions of the Great Powers were really get-
ting on. He was told that the number of
men employed on the different fleets was as
follows: —
Decrease
since 1914
Great Britain .. .. 101,000 45,000
France 62,000 7,000
Increase
since 1914
Italy 46,000 6,000
Japan . . . . .. 85,000 35,000
United States .. .. 113,000 46,000
This may only mean that Uncle has money
to burn, but he seems to be in an uneasy
frame of mind.
Legislation to deal with the absconding
solicitor is once more demanded in Sydney 1 .
A great trouble is that he can’t be brought
back, even if located, unless somebody con-
cerned puts up the travelling expenses, and
nobody concerned may have the money. _ As
a rule the fleeing Gentleman One has little
himself except a heap of betting tickets.
The N.S.W. Bavinshaw Government has
got its Income-tax Management Bill through
in a mangled form. The £250 exemption was
restored as regards single men, but small in-
vestors are not to have their taxed dividends
added to their income from personal exer-
tion so as to punish them for being small
investors'. Speaker Levy very properly
pointed out that the nominee. Chamber’s
amendments constituted a gross infringement
of the rights of the people’s House. Pre-
mier Bavin had to admit it, but in effect
accepted the humiliation while shaking
his fist at the nominees. The Government
will go into recess with its prestige greatly
diminished. Instead of monkeying with the
income-tax it should obviously have reim-
posed the tax on entertainments abandoned
by the Commonwealth Government, as West-
ralian Labor has done.
An attempt is being made by metal-trades
employers to persuade union officials to let
their subjects earn a little more money.
In some shops lovertime work, which means
pay for time and a half, isn’t permitted. In
some a man may work, say, four hours extra
if he stops work for four hours some other
time to make up; while in others he must
leave off for six hours in order to eat up
the extra pay that the overtime brought him.
This helps to make room for plenty of
imported “metals, metal manufactures and
machinery,” of which Australia bought last
year 234 million pounds’ worth from Britain
and 15 million pounds’ worth from the U.S.
Though somebody makes a profit by all that
shifting of goods over the briny deep the local
artisan certainly doesn’t.
One of those mud-slingers who are worth
thousands of votes to Anti-Labor showed up
last week in J*. Kavanagh, of Sydney Trades
Hall. Referring in the Labor Daily to
Melbourne’s bombing outrages he said: —
We have to thank the military instructors of our
imperial masters for any tendency in the throwing of
bombs which may be manifested at this time.
To throw a bomb by night into a house con-
taining women and children, and then bolt,
bears the same relation to bombing in war-
fare as shooting from behind a hedge does to
shooting in the face of an enemy. The
civilian bomber was in evidence generations
before anyone thought of the World War,
and rarely, if ever, was he an ex-soldier.
Usually he advocated the Brotherhood of
Man from an address which, translated from
the Russian, would have read “Trades Hall.”
Five months’ Treasury returns for N. S.
Wales (July-December) show that revenue
was £69,663 mere than for the corresponding
five months of 1927, but as expenditure was
£970,121 more it is evident that the out-
goings are a great deal more agile than the
income. Business undertakings, which are
mostly railways, yielded £172,585 less. And
£316,191 more was paid out to earn that
£172,585 less, which accentuates the un-
pleasantness of the situation. Of the new
expenditure £127,194 was increased cost of
running business undertakings; the latest
batch of new railways helps to account for
that. The rest, £188,997, was increased
interest on loans raised for business and
“developmental” undertakings^
While the N.S.W. Government interest
bill grows at the rate of nearly half a mil-
lion a year, and revenue persistently refuses
to catch up, there is no permanent gain in
worrying with a new Income-tax Bill. An-
other will be required next year and another
the year after, with more to follow. If the plug
can be put in as concerns the growth of in-
terest then the outlay on running business
undertakings should be plugged likewise, for
the new loans which cause the interest trouble
also supply the new undertakings which
cause the working-expenses trouble. The
Federal Institute of Accountants met re-
cently to consider the position, and voted
that the railway shortages should be met by
loans. If accountants have no better idea to
suggest, the ■voter whose ledger is the back
of an envelope can’t be looked to for much.
Hal Pateshall Colebatch, who was the
Westralian Agent-General last year, has
become an elected
C o m m o nwealth
Senator —a feat
which only one
e x-A g ent-General,
South Australia’s
Tom Playford
(dead these 13
years), has com-
passed before. But
Colebatch has an
even rarer distinc-
tion; when a mem-
ber of the Leg.
Council he was
sworn in as
Premier, though
his Government
was brief. Also, he
is probably the
only Australian
who has had a long
talk with Musso-
lini. Colebatch will
add to the debat-
ing strength of the
Senate. It was his
c a refully-prepared
speeches that en-
Senator Colebatch.
abled him to surmount the disadvantage of
being in the wrong House until a miserable
wharf riot wrecked his Ministry.
Unintentionally but surely the former
Labor Ministers have consolidated the posi-
tion of the McPhersons in Vic. Assembly by
grousing and stonewalling. Tired of these
tactics, McPherson applied the gag the other
night—two hours and a half had been spent
in. discussing whether Government business
should have precedence—and he had a
majority of six. Only members of the
Caucus voted with Hogan. The prestige of
the Mac Ministry was further established by
both Houses passing in the one night the
bill directed against those who design and
prepare bombs, and the tools they employ to
heave them at cottages, mansions and clubs.
A good part of two years was spent by
the Seamen’s Union in twice electing Tom
Walsh general secretary, but a majority all
over Australia was of no account if the mob
in the next street took possession of the
office and was a law unto itself. For a
while Jacob Johanson was the man in
irregular possession of the office and the
salary, and it was understood that the union
would die in the last ditch in defence of
Jacob. After disbursing its final cent in his
legal defence it even undertook to pay his
salary as a perfectly irregular secretary
w-hile he was doing six months in “stir.” But
it seems now to have become suddenly weary
of Jolianson and to have left him to pine in
his cell, giving the secretaryship in an offhand
way to Fleming. What the troubled career
of Fleming will be like remains to be seen,
but no doubt somebody is waiting for his
job.
Victoria’s ex-Minister for Agriculture
made the Assembly feel bad where it expects
to put its Christmas dinner by stating that
47,000 cases of dates had arrived per ship
at Melbourne in an unspeakable condition
and were rapidly crawling ashore. The two
inspection officers, he said, were quite insuffi-
cient to count the worms in the consignment
or even to make a reasonable estimate of
their number. Our supplies of dates come
mostly from discolored lands, and many
people buy them in preference to the raisins,
currants and the like grown by our own
Diggers. One member told a tale of a grocer-
constitutent who accused the C.S.R. Co. of
supplying wormy or serpentine suj ar. In-
vestigation proved that grubs had chewed
their way out of adjacent boxes of dates and
burgled the sugar. Evidently a stalwart
class of insect.
Many Laborites
have turned Liberal
(or Nationalist), but
few Liberals have
turned Labor. One of
the few- is Richard
Armstrong Crouch,
solicitor and citizen
soldier, who was
M.11.R. for Corio in
the first three Com-
monwealth Parlia-
ments, being a fol-
lower of Alfred Dea-
kin, and was bealen by
a Labor man in 1910.
Crouch joined the
A.L.P. after the war,
in which he com-
manded the 22nd Bat-
talion for a time. At
the recent election he
made his second
attempt to get in for
Corangamite in the
Labor interest, but
Gibson, the Post-
master - General, car-
ried too many guns for
him.
R. A. CROUCH.
The rapid promotion of politicians’ secre-
taries is a chronic grievance in the public
services. Particularly fortunate was Percy
Deane, who was private secretary to Hughes
when that gentleman was Prime Minister,
and who on at least one occasion, a Royal
Commission found, behaved as if he were
Prime Minister himself. Now Deane has been
transferred from the secretaryship of the
Prime Minister’s department to that of Home
Affairs at the same salary, £l3OO p.a.; J.
G. Maclaren, who went from Home Affairs
to the Public Service Board, where he drew
£2OOO p.a., has been shifted to the Prime
Minister’s concern, the duties of which are
to be increased, without any reduction in
screw. Deane’s newspaper friends are roar-
ing that this arrangement is a “scandal.”
The nation will survive it.
The Industrial Peace Conference in Mel-
bourne was greeted with a pessimistic address
by W. J. Duggan, president of the Austral-
ian Council of Trades Unions. For ex-
ample :
The worker has seen his father spend his life
in arduous toil and hardship, no better off at the
end than when he started. He knows that the same
fate awaits himself, but he is desperately anxious
that his children’s lot shall be different.
Yet savings-bank deposits alone are 133
per inhabitant, and the average of factory
wages for men, women and *young people is
£202 per annum, and some 850,000 policy-
holders hare nearly £lOO apiece in life
assurance concerns, and many possess* their
own homes or farms. And many a haggard
father would save enough to start for him-
self if union autocrats would let him increase
his earnings by piecework. Then there might
be many millions less going out to pay for
cheap-labor goods.
Prohibition can be a boon to a country
which isn’t dry itself but adjoins one that
is. Canadian customs figures show that
£5,000,000 worth of whisky has been passed
into the U-S.A. in one year. And Canadian
distillery and brewery shares are up among
the stars.
According to rather belated figures for the
year to June, 1927, there were 6947 fewer
people employed on the land than 12 months
earlier. In pastoral pursuits, which get no
Government loans, 4615 more were employed,
but over 11,500 had dropped out of other
lines of bucolic industry. Yet the loan-land-
settlement racket goes on with little abate-
ment of its fury.
[For matter which has to be signed, S. H. Prior,
J. E. Webb and James Edmond, all of 214 George-
street North, Sydney, share the blame.]
THE ALTRUISTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘•'Mr. Hogan said that his Ministry were told that
they might continue in office if they would drop the
Redistribution of Seats Bill, which they had promised
the electors. They refused. (A voice: ‘Noble
fellows.’)”
They dragged us from the tart-shop fighting
hard,
Squealing and cursing till the air was blue.
So sudden was the process that it jarred.
Wouldn’t it rattle you?
We might have stayed, by general consent,
Had we but ante’d up the price of shame.
We reckoned it too high, so out we went,
Battered and bruised, but game.
Men in smashed ships have hauled their
colors down
Ere now, for token that they’ve had
enough,
And handed up their swords, sooner than
drown.
But we were sterner stuff.
And sometimes, with the cruel faggots lit,
Martyrs who up till then were adamant
Have pusillanimously lost their grit
And offered to recant.
Not so with, us, who needn’t have been fired
Had we agreed to certain turns and twists
And changes in our policy required
By our antagonists.
To crawl upon our bellies, eat our words,
Was all we had to do our jobs to keep—
A quid pro quo that quite a lot of birds
Would have accounted cheap.
Martyrs to principle you here behold,
Cut off untimely, butchered in our prime,
Because we wouldn’t do as we were told
By politicians in the other fold.
Beneath our ribs of tin beat hearts of gold.
Are they not worth a rhyme?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Selma”: It was lunch-time at our choir
picnic. The vicar sat at the head of the
cloth, and on his right sat Our leading bari-
tone, who is also the vicar’s churchwarden.
He had brought with him a pert and obstrep-
erous eight-year-old daughter. When the
youngster became unendurable the chief
soprano remonstrated with her. “Your father
won’t bring you next time if you are so
naughty,” she remarked. “Huh!” retorted
THOROUGHLY PROTECTED.
“And nurse says a stork’s brought us a new baby!"
“Gee, I’d like to see a stork come to our place when my dog’s loose!"
the infant with a hostile glance at her
parent “he didn’t want to bring me. Mum
made him And what do you think he said?”
The choir listened breathlessly. “He said,”
continued the small girl with devastating
frankness, “that there were too many damn
women going as it was!”
* * * *
“Gouger”: There was no safety zone
at Gallipoli. All landing troops were
under shell "fire before they touched the
beach, and thereafter were under all sorts
of fire. All day long bullets fired from
the Turkish front line were whizzing
over our trenches to hum across the space
behind and eventually plonk in the sea. The
tiny beach was always under shrapnel fire
from “Beachy Bill.” No square foot, of
ground was immune from falling missiles.
Whether a man was slinging bombs from the
front line, carrying wounded to the beach,
or landing bully beef from the waterfront
he was under fire night and day. Gallipoli
was all front line. In fact, the front-line
trenches were sometimes the safest place
to be in. Up there at least a man did have
a sort of trench as an apology for protection
against the rain of missiles'.
* * * *
“P.M.” : When the blue chevrons first came
out (B. 28/li/’2B) our unit received a letter
of instruction that all ranks proceeding on
leave were to wear them. Adjutant E. G.
Knox (now of Sydney Evening News) read
the letter with an amused grin and called
for the S.-M. “Sarnmaj’r,” he ordered, “see
that all your donkeys go on leave dressed
as zebras in future!”
* * * *
“Captain Reece” : There is infinite pathos
in the recently-published story of the Kaiser
ordering his longshore fleet to
sally out on one final quest for
death or glory, and then, after
promising to go with it, decid-
ing that the water was too cold.
I say pathos advisedly, for
had Bill taken his courage in
his one available hand and made
the great publicity splash, he
would have wiped out all the
ignominy attaching to him in
one hit, and that without run-
ning the slightest personal risk.
The Allied Intelligence has
made it plain that there was no
earthly hope of getting the Ger-
man fleet as & whole out into
open water again after Jutland.
Except in the case of a few
ships, the lower deck was out
of hand throughout the fleet. If
poor William H. had gone down
to Kiel and urged his seamen
to come out and die with him in
the German Sea he would have
had to face no more horrid dan-
ger than a showier of German
compound adjectives, and, per-
haps. a dead cat or two.
“Dinkum Nightingale” : The particular sort
of hospital contretemps of which “B.C.S.S.’’
(B. 21/11/’2B) writes is more frequent
than one might think. I still remember one
busy morning in a Queensland women’s hos-
pital when a junior nurse was told to take
Mrs. S. directly she arrived and prepare her
for immediate operation. The j.n. pounced
on a surprised female in the porch, shep-
herded her to the bathroom and hustled her,
protesting, into a warm bath. It was only
when the “patient” flatly refused to hand
over her false teeth or to don the weird flan-
nel garments provided for “op.” cases that
an almost-tearful nurse called a senior to
enforce obedience. It didn’t take long to
establish that the conscientious junior had
got hold of a visitor; Mrs. S. was still
waiting in the hall.
* * * *
“Wart” : Shingling was employed for puni-
tive purposes in the Speck 100 years before
it came into vogue in either Belgium or Ire-
land. The early Governors and “Bobby”
Knopwood, the first chaplain, never wor-
ried very much about trying to reform the con-
victs. In fact, Knopwood never worried
about trying to reform anyone, or he
might have started on himself. But with the
advent of Governor Arthur and Chaplain
Bedford there was a change. Both men took
themselves and their jobs very seriously,
Bedford found the. women convicts even more
incorrigible than the men, and, ordinary
punishments having little effect on them, he
persuaded Arthur -.to sanction the cutting off
of their hair. The ladies took this indignity
so much to heart that one day when Bedford
visited the female factory he was mobbed,
and, according to a writer of the period,
“subjected to unprintable obscenities.” The
soldiers had a job to rescue him from the
infuriated women who had undergone the
prison crop.
* * * *
“Orn”: Some recent paragraphs about
discipline in the Australian Navy recall to the
writer the first taste of it given to budding
officers. When the initial batch of some
30 cadet midshipmen joined up at the Naval
College, then situated at Geelong, the dormi-
tories during the first few nights were scenes
of joyous riot. The boys wefe warned that
this sort of thing must cease, but the warn-
ing was ignored. A second warning was
issued, more disturbances followed, and then
the Commander suddenly appeared on the
scene. All boys were turned out of the
dormitories and drafted back one by one past
the Commander, standing with his Malacca
cane at the doorway. There was never any
ALL THINGS COME
“Henry, where are we going for Christmas?”
“Don’t worry me, woman. We don’t need to go anywhere! We’ll just wait here and
it’ll come."
lack of discipline at the Naval College after
th,at. Four years later, when those boys
passed out to a wider sphere, the presenta-
tion they made to Commander Grant was a
silver-mounted cane.
* * * *
“R.G.N.C.”: At a welcome to anew rector
in Bundaberg (Q.) a fellow-worker in the
vineyard provided a variant to a well-known
wheeze. “Dear friends,” he boomed. “I won’t
call you ‘ladies and gentlemen,’ for I know
you all too well!” Such is the hypnotism
the cloth exercises over the faithful that only
a newspaper heathen appeared to notice.
Sj! # * *
“124”: The Queenslander of the humid
coastal belt dresses perhaps a bit more
sensibly than the southerner, but he
sticks to the same heavy meat meals. In
three years in the North my hotel menu,
even in the wet season from November to
February, at no time failed to offer me oat-
meal porridge, hot soup at two meals and
hot meat at three, with a steamed pudding
daily. I saw few men or women refuse the
fare even when there was little, if any, pro-
spect of the cool night that ends most
Queensland days, however hot.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Glenmore-road,' Pad-
dington, is Sydney’s most serpentine
thoroughfare; it was originally a track on
the hillsides which gave an outlet from what
is now Oxford-street to the Harbor bays.
Some of the roads of old Sydney had less
valid reasons for zigzagging and corkscrew-
ing. That kink that remains in George-
street in the Haymarket, for instance, is the
result of the difficulty experienced by the
early settlers in avoiding a giant gum that
grew in the gully down which a creek
once ambled from Surry Hills to Darling
Harbor. The tree was cut down, but the
stump was an enormous one, and no attempt
was made to root it out for years. As
a result George-street leaves the Town Hall
as if making a bee-line for the centre of
the railway station, and Railway-square as
if it intends to connect with Pitt-street, the
old teamsters having diverged from the straight
to get round the obstacle.
* * # *
“Sixenate”: A man who was his own
uncle-in-law was relieved of this distinction
the other day by the N.S.W. Divorce Court:
a decree of nullity was sought and obtained
on the ground that the union was one of
those prohibited in the table at the _ end of
the Book of Common Prayer. His wife
having died, the petitioner in this case
married her aunt, who had come to look
after the home, and it wasn’t until
he was talking over his domestic troubles,
after nine years of matrimony, that he
learned from some better-informed person
that the matrimonial tie was within the, pro-
hibited degrees of kinship. There seems no
very valid reason, now that marriage with
a deceased wife’s sister has been made law-
ful, why the lady’s aunt shouldn’t have the
privilege of consoling a disconsolate widower,
hut the early-day Hebrew legislators were
wise old birds, and in putting a religious bar
between the female relatives of a wife and
her husband they undoubtedly saved much
heartburning and an infinity of domestic dis-
cord.
* * * *
“Sol M.”A cable report states that the
Rev. Charles Gore, of England, has written
or edited a .book about the inwardness of
Scripture. Rev. Charles has held about a
dozen clerical billets, including three bishop-
rics, and has also written 29 religious works.
His matured opinion is that the tales of
the Creation and the Deluge and the pick-
ling of Lot’s wife are not to be taken liter-
ally; that it is “structurally impossible” for
any patriarch to have lived for ’969 years;
that Isaiah isn’t the work of a single author
but a compilation, and much more. None
of it is new, but most of it is more than
probable. A curious point is that a Jewish
theory puts the “era of Creation” at 3760
8.C., and that some of the ancient crom-
lechs in Britain are estimated by modern
authorities as dating back to 3600 b.c. So
they just missed being built previous to the
world, and perhaps some of them were pre-
vious, our race being vigorous as well as
ancient. Some day, perhaps, Wells’s time-
machine will really eventuate. Then man
will motor back, passing the back yard of
Genesis on the first lap of the - journey, and
have a look for himself. If, when he gets
✓
into the millions 8.C., he finds millions more
of b.c. still stretching ahead, he will pro-
bably give up Biblical criticism as a vain
thing. And if he miscalculates his position
by a few years on the return journey, and
lands at home a year after his funeral, he
having died and been buried in his absence,
complications seem inevitable.
* * * *
“Mako”: It happened in an up-country
Maoriland' town. The disreputable citizen
had fallen in the gutter, and the usual crowd
had collected to diagnose his malady. “What’s
the matter?” asked anew arrival. “Drunk,”
somebody told him. Young Henare, who was
an interested onlooker, strolled round, and
observed the casualty from all angles. “He
not trunk,” he pronounced at last. “He
move!”
* * * * 1
“Mells”: Tattoo marks, except in more
secluded portions of the human frame, are
dangerous things for fugitives from the law
to carry; it is hard to conceive of a person
more generously decorated than a certain'
James Thompson, for whom the Vic-
torian police are assiduously searching.
Among the artistic efforts for which Thomp-
son’s hide has provided the canvas there are,
one learns, the American coat-of-arms, a
girl’s face with a name underneath, a sailor
and a girl, a woman with clasped hands, a
ship in full sail, a swallow and the figures
of Faiths Hope and Charity. With that
wealth of incriminating embellishment, the
C.I.D. need hardly worry about the wanted
man’s thumb-prints. But wherever James
may spend his leisure, it is a safe bet that
he fights shy of beach dressing-sheds and
Turkish baths.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Oxmead” : I read with interest, also entire
approval, that the Irish Free State autho-
rities arc striking anew note in regard to
the decoration of their currency. In place
of the old symbols Erin’s fauna, both ferae
naturae and domesticated, are to be exten-
sively utilised, the exhibits including an Irish
hunter (the four-footed article, presumably),
a leaping salmon, an Irish bull (not from
Boyle Roche’s herd), a wolfhound at gaze,
a hare couchant, some poultry and the inevit-
able sow with a goodly litter. The only
thing that puzzles me is the final item; the
farthing will carry, according to the Sydney
Sun, which is my authority for this para-
graph, “a woodchuck in flight.” I never
saw a woodchuck, and never read of one
except in American stories, but my dictionary
says it is a grizzly-grey marmot of eastern
North America, so I don’t know what the
devil it can be doing in this gallery. Possibly
it is a misprint for “woodcock”; a woodcock
in flight is the sort of thing to make even
a farthing a thing of beauty.
* * *
“Schnorrer”: The latest Jewish Year Book
puts down the world population of Jews at
15,324,515; 4,226,000 of them are credited
to the U.S. Actually, of course, the descen-
dants of Jacob are much more numerous ; the
figures given represent only those -who de-
scribe themselves as Jews in the census
returns of various countries. In every gen-
eration a certain number of the Chosen are
assimilated, wholly or partially, by the
peoples among whom they dwell, the process
being particularly rapid in parts of Ger-
many and what used to be the Austrian
Empire. On the other hand, the tally of
recognised Jews has been gaining some acces-
sions of recent years. There are, for in-
stance, the Marranos of Spain and Portugal,
who have appealed during' recent years to
British Jewry for instruction in the Jewish
faith so that they may be recognised as its
followers. They are the descendants of those
Jews who, in the times of the Inquisition
and, subsequently, the eviction from Spain,
officially renounced their faith, but have
secretly maintained many Jewish rites for
generations, and need little inducement to
return to the fold.
A BALLAD OF CHANGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s no denying that things do change.
Mature years look on a world that’s strange;
And this among omens we surely see:
(Not knowing the wherefore, the why or
how)
Things savory once are tasteless now,
For nothing is quite what it used to be.
Where is the damsel, a love though laced,.
With the opulent bust and the twenty-inch
waist,
Whose face was modest as well as her
knee ?
Do the leg exposed and the close-cropped
hair,
The powder, the lip-stick and brazen stare
Make up for her manners that used to be !
Young men of the time are a flabby race ;
They can’t hold their liquor or go the pace
Like their fathers did on an old-fashioned
spree.
Tame lounge lizards who suck cigarettes,
Or scorch in motors with joy-riding pets.
They certainly aren’t what we used to be.
The clubs have altered their good old rules.
Tinkered to suit irresponsible fools;
The pubs close early and serve you tea!
Editors now can’t see a joke,
They don’t drink overproof rum or smoke—
Sure sign they’re not what they used to be!
The “bedside manner” new doctors scout
As they coolly snick your appendix out;
The lawyer has only advanced in his fee;
Cheap politicians to office cling;
Parsons and wow*sers are much the same
thing.
The professions aren’t what they used to
be.
Artists indulge in impressionist freaks;
Drama with crime or pornography reeks,
And the dialogue’s that of a hardened
bargee.
And what shall we say of the makers of
verse ?
Have they, too, travelled through good—bad
—worse?
Are we rhymesters the poets we used to
be?
s.A.
BILL O’C.


“Clement R. d’tJppe”: Broken Hill bar-
maids may draw record wages (B. 5./12/’2B),
but a Newcastle (N.S.W.) damsel lays claim
to the distinction of being the fastest pump
manipulator in the Commonwealth. In one
day her till registered £47, representing
2520 fourpenny beers. She must have ladled
out the hops at the rate of nearly six glasses
a minute.
* * * $
“J.C.M.”: Our baker was looking hipped
and I asked what the trouble was. He
answered with another question, “Some cows
think they’re damn funny, don’t they?” be-
fore handing over an explanatory letter.
“Dear Sir,” it ran, “I bought a loaf of
raisin bread from you the other day and took
it home. I know you will scarcely credit it,
but I found a raisin in that loaf. I feel very
much upset about it, as you must have dis-
covered the loss by this time, but it is im-
possible to return it as one of the children
swallowed it before we could prevent her
from doing so. This is to notify you that you
will have to buy another raisin for future
use, and I absolutely refuse to pay anything
towards it.” “Yes,” said Doughie bitterly,
“a regular ’umorist that bloke, ain’t he!”
* * * *
“Templar” : A defence of a sort very sel-
dom heard in a breach-of-promise action
was submitted in the Melbourne Civil
Court last week. A Footscray spinster
asked for £SOO damages from a West Foots-
cray driver on the ground that she and he
had agreed to marry last January and
that the swain had since refused to keep
his word. The defence was that, if there was
a promise, it was subject to a condition, and
that the defendant had since discovered that
the plaintiff had misconducted herself with
other men before the date of the engage-
ment. Several witnesses were called to sup-
port the allegation, and after the case had
entered on its third day the jury retired.
They returned in 20 minutes, and presumably
expressed their opinion of the defence by
returning a verdict for the full amount
claimed.
* * * *
“Mullarula”: Few places, if any, were
more assiduously bombed during the last six
months of the war than the little mud-and-
stone village of
Suwelki, high up on
the bare mountains
beyond Jordan on the
way to Es Salt. The
attentions it received
were entirely due to
the sins of its inhabi-
tants, the usual cow-
ardly cut-throats of
that region. When
our mounted troops
passed through in the
spring of 1918, with
the enemy falling back,
they seemed to be on
the winning side, and
were consequently
hailed as long-awaited
friends. Falling back
after the Amman
stunt, they looked like
losers, and a Maori-
land regiment was
fired on from the
houses by the usual
gang of skulking mur-
derers. Though their
casualties were heavy,
the troops could not
stop to clean up their
attackers, for delay in
the retreat might have
meant the annihila-
tion of the hard-
pressed rearguard be-
hind them. From
then to the final over-
throw of the Turkish
army, however, almost
every airman who
went over that way on
a bombing expedition
made it his business to
reserve at least one bomb for Suwelki. The
place was deserted before the regiment which
had the score to settle came that way again.
* * * *
“Mudurup”: The thirstiest man I ever
met was np between Bummers’ Creek
and Laverton, on the W.A. goldfields. There
were 10 or 15 of us in the bush pub—diggers
and gully-rakers and a mining expert or two
and a commercial and a battery manager and
three or four side-kickers —when a lucky
leaseholder lobbed in. He’d just sold out
of his claim for five thousand to a London
company, and he reckoned it was up .to
him to shout for the crowd. He was going
to do the thing in style, too —a bottle of fizz
apiece. The crowd raised no objections, and
Bung had hauled out a case and started to
cut the wires when one bloke who’d been
sitting in a corner, half-shickered and
gloomy-looking. asked the chap who was
shouting if he could have 20 pints of beer
instead. He didn’t care much for the bubbly,
he said, and it wouldn’t cost any more —
champagne was 25 bob a bottle—and he was
thirsty. The cove who was shouting said it
was all one to him, and Bung gave the chap
with the outsize parch two and a half gal-
Ions of perk and a pint mug, and he sat on
a cask outside the door and finished it.
Matter o’ fact, he finished it before some of
us had got through with the champagne. And
then he up and hit the track for his camp
looking like a poisoned pup!
* * s|s *
“B-Gar”: There are still parts of the Out-
back where an aeroplane is discussed with a
deal of scepticism. A Federal candidate who
was travelling through the Gulf country dur-
ing the recent election pulled his car up at a
waterhole near where a swagman was rest-
ing. “Are you waiting for Hinkler?” asked the
would-be lawmaker. The swagman inquired
NOT A WORD!
“Jack and Jean are keeping their engagement an absolute
secret.”
“Are they?”
“Yes, Jean told me.”
who Hinkler was, and on being told expressed
a profound disbelief in the idea of anyone
flying from England to Australia. Later, on
reciting the incident at the bush pub, he was
informed that a trip like that was nothing.
“Why,” said one of the assembled ringers,
“a bloke was here a while back, an’ reckoned
four blokes flew here from America.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: It is remarkable how many early
if not first experiments in Australian agri-
culture were made not on the mainland but
on islands. English soldiers pioneered tropi-
cal agriculture by planting seeds on Melville
Island in 1825. There was a sound reason
for their choice, Tasman having placed it on
record that the territory was populated by
treacherous and murderous savages, but Eng-
lish plants were flourishing on Kangaroo
Island before any appeared at Adelaide,
although nobody worried at the time about
the warlike habits of the local abo. And
Garden Island, off Fremantle, owes its name
to the fact that it was the site of the first
nursery in Westralia. Victorian agri-
culture began with the planting by Lieu-
tenant Grant, R.N., of seeds on Churchill
Island, Westernport, in 1801. Nothing came
ANOTHER SPORTING EVENT.
“He’s a bit of an athlete, I believe?”
“Yes. Holds the long-distance record for running up bills.”
of it at the time, however, though a casual
visitor later discovered that the immigrants
had found the volcanic soil very much to
their liking. By the time the State was per-
manently settled from Melbourne all trace of
Grant’s plantation had disappeared, except
its guardian, an old cannon. The present
owners of the island, who have had uninter-
rupted possession for 50 years, are offering
it for sale.
* * * *
“Arthur R.”: I question whether the
notorious Buckley ever got away from this
country on a tramp steamer. I have been
assured by a member of the underworld that
he never left Melbourne, his skill in disguis-
ing himself ensuring his safety. Some mem-
bers of the police are also convinced that
Buckley is still in Melbourne, and will yet be
captured.
_** * *
“Lily-Beale”: The old Bushman’s Home
Hotel at Forbes (N.S.W.), once the haunt of
Ben Hall and his gang, is being demolished.
Built in 1858, it carried many memories of
the gold rushes of ’62 and later. The bush-
rangers’ “telegraphs” resorted to the pub to
get news of police activities, which they
would pass on to Hall.
* * * *
“Eureka” : Hearses have other uses besides
those mentioned in recent Bulletins. A
country undertaker in N. S. Wales recently
purchased a new motor-hearse and sold his
old horse-hearse ,to a local farmer, who
detached the part that holds the coffins and
is using the vehicle to carry his pigs to mar-
ket. His wife employs the top portion of
the hearse as a house for her young ducks.
* * * *
“Amity”: The other night when a party
of Auckland churchgoers were returning
home through Wyndham-street they were
horrified to hear agonised appeals for help
floating down from an unlighted window in
a high building. Six stalwart males with
knightly courage dashed into the darkness
and stumbled up the staircase, and presently
were at the door of the room whence the
cries were still proceeding Then someone
switched on a light. It was the members of
the Little Theatre rehearsing a forthcoming
tragedy in which one of the characters is
drowning in a coalmine.
* * # *
“Milano” : A London cable about a Men-
tone organisation which “kept watch on pro-
minent anti-Fascist refugees, opened their
letters and listened whenever possible to con-
versations,” is another, indication that the
indefatigable Mussolini is extending the
sphere of his activities. It has long been
axiomatic with residents of Italy who desire
a quiet life to neither talk nor write about
the Government in a critical spirit. An
Australian living in Pisa with his family
wrote to a friend in London of Fascist out-
rages. Four days later he was approached
unofficially and told, with infinite suavity, to
get out. He demurred, whereupon he was
urged more suavely than.ever to consider his
physical well-being and go. He went, having
seen enough of Fascism’s methods to fear
them. All his letters had been opened by the
local authorities. The extension of this kind
of espionage to foreign parts is suggested
further by the fact that it is practically
impossible to get an Italian or even a British
resident of Italy to discuss Mussolini’s
methods in England nowadays.
* * * *
“M. de Paris”: Gregor” would have us
infer (B- 28/11/’2B) that the public execu-
tioners of the good old days were miserably
sweated; what he overlooks is that, while
the actual fees were negligible, the per-
quisites were numerous and valuable. The
officiating artist w T as allowed all his client’s
clothes, for one thing, and since most of the
headsman’s clientele in those days w r ore
elaborate and expensive raiment and ascended
the scaffold in their gladdest rags, there was
profit here. Further, as in the case of the
Marquise de Brinvilliers, who was permitted
to wear the white shift of penitence over her
ordinary clothing, relatives and friends
often paid a solid sum to spare the deceased
the ignominy of being stripped naked m
public before quartering, or, as in the case of
the Marquise, of burning. Another useful
rake-off was the custom which ordained that
the patient should present the practitioner
with a fee in order that the operation should
be instantaneous. In the degenerate days
of the French Revolution all these fine old
observances fell into disuse, and the stately
office and its traditions were thrown into
the melting-pot with so many other semi-
sacred observances.
*** * *
“Bud-G.”: Some gruesome exhibits are
presented at times in criminal cases. Re-
cently at Townsville there reposed on coun-
sel’s ' table, carefully bottled and preserved,
and frequently referred to during a case in
which two Italians were implicated, a por-
tion of a human ear which had been bitten
from one belligerent by liis infuriated anta-
gonist.
* * * *
“Imbaga” : Papua continues to move with
the times. The other day the inhabitants
of Port Moresby celebrated an epoch-making
dual event in the history of the Possession.
As the local press put it:—
We refer to the opening of the bowser on Port-
road for the supply of Shell benzine in bulk, and
the opening of the keg at the Papua Hotel for the
supply of draught beer. Both pumps worked well
between 12 and 1 o’clock on Saturday last.-
So tha’sh hic-zhash.
* * * *
“Bloggs”: Sydney seems to be breeding
one of London’s most discreditable features
—the professional mendicant. During one
afternoon recently I struck a couple of pave-
ment artists (displaying some of the identical
pictorial outrages that are to be seen on
any stone canvas between Knightsbridge and
the city) and three blind men. In London
this kind of thing is an industry. Practi-
tioners arrive with their drawing materials,
or trays of matches, adjust their war rib-
bons (they are all —or nearly all —ex-sol-
diers), and get to business as methodically
as bankers. In Paris and Rome, on the other
hand, the street beggar- is as rare a spec-
tacle as the street “unfortunate.” In Rome
beggars and “unfortunates” vanished prac-
tically in a night—Mussolini having spoken
the -previous afternoon.
* * * *
“C.Q.” : The family of Kennedy of Mary-
borough (Vic.) has reason to regard the
neighboring River Loddon as its evil genius.
During thfe last seven years it has claimed
three brothers, Charles, Henry and Frederick.
* * * *
“Chevroford” : It is not generally known
that Vic. and N. S. Wales between them have
built a town which, if all goes to schedule,
will have vanished from the map by 1931.
The project of damming back the Murray
at Hume, a few miles above Albury, has
brought the doomed place into existence.
There are about 400 people on the N. S.
Wales side not counting dependants) and
300 in the Vic. section. Each village has all
the appearance of having been there as long
as any township in Australia and of intend-
ing to stay. There are even trees planted
in the streets. The N. S. Wales. Commissioners
have given individual enterprise a free hand
in the part under their control, and there are
gardens that would grace a Melbourne
suburb. The Vic. people, on the other hand,
have established a second Yallourn of
straight streets and standardised bunga-
lows. By an interesting coincidence the
spot selected for the dam is almost exactly
the point where Hume and Hovell crossed
in November 20. 1824. and the usual monu-
ment commemorating the fact stands in the
main street of the N. S. Wales half of the
township.
NOSTALGIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The ache it is always with me,
Perverse is the heart of man
To look beyond the horizon
And woo the moon—if he can !
When the restless city is sleeping,
And her wanton madness stills.
It is then I hear the bellbirds
'Silvery-clear from the hills,
The little green hills at Bega,
Where the big, brave mountains start.
The bellbirds’ songs by the river
Have sung right into my heart.
The skies were black at the midnight,
The moon was a scimitar,
A wicked scabbard of silver,
A hilt with a jewelled star.
The dawn came over the mountains,
Windows were lit in the town
By scarlet skies of the morning
That flooded the daylight down.
White sheep were over the meadows,
The smallest child was awake,
And the bellbirds chanted at Bega
An anthem across the lake.
Take me away from the city,
Hitch my heart to a star.
That I may go with the midnight
And be where the bellbirds are!
N.S.W.
GILBERT MANT.


m.
'u.
"u
'Hi.
'«u
!>(((
iKfc i. 1
(
HlKl,l
'('(I,
3( II
*
%
<1
most
osien
k L
O':
fULLY FASHIONED
The sports girl of to-day,
with her lithe, graceful
figure perfectly and scru-
pulously attired, distinctive
and aristocratic in her
bearing, demanding and
receiving the best. Care
for every detail causes her
to insist that her hosiery is
by Prestige.
c
cA
qA
pioi>


Booking
AT
Busy Seasons
Never take it for granted that "The Australia” is full, or
listen to people who say "it’s no use applying—they’re sure
to be booked-up.”
On the contrary, our accommodation is equal to practically all
demands placed upon it. Should we be fully booked when you
apply, we will gladly arrange the next best available accom-
modation .
Telegraphic, Cable and Wireless Address: "Austraotel,” Sydney
Capital Paid-Up,
£422.100.
dfg
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH
SYDNEY
FOR THIS CHRISTMAS
MAKE DIAMONDS YOUR GIFT.
Here is a selection from the extensive range of Fairfax & Roberts. They are
settings of fine stones at prices denoting sound value.
df
Pearl and Diamonds
in all-Platinum set-
ting, £57/10/-
gdf
All Diamonds, Plati-
num and 18ct.
Gold, £B/8/-
gd
Choice Diamonds in
Hexagonal setting,
with small Diamonds
on either side,
£2O.
fg
Circular Diamond
setting £25. In
small Diamonds,
£2l.
dfg
Seven choice Dia-
monds, £l5/15/“
df
Pearl and Diamonds
in Platinum and
18ct. Gold, .
£l5/15/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LIMITED,
**The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
PLAIN FIGURES.
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
CASH ONLY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
It was the pertinacity of James Mac-
Dougall that made the Peace-in-Industry
Conference possible. No man has had
more experience of the worries of the
employer or shown more sympathy with
the needs of the worker. Macdougall
pioneered the wire industry in Aus-
tralia, and was managing director for the
Rylands people at Newcastle. He was the
last president of the Associated Chambers of
Manufactures, and is present president of
the Vic. branch.
Arthur Rae, one of the three N.S.W.
Labor Senators, went to gaol for the Cause
in 1890, and though many of his companions
of those days lived to become conservatives
Justice NAPIER, of S. Aus.
he is as fiery a demagogue as ever. The
framed prison discharge hangs in his home;
“You see,” the veteran tells the visitor, “I
can claim a legal right to be out of gaol.”
It is 37 years since Rae became a legislator,
but he has had only one term in the N.S.W.
Parliament (1891-94) and one in the
Senate (1910-14). At most elections he
has described himself as an orchardist; for
the last year or two he has been on the
Labor Daily.
Forty years ago Cohen, Vic. Minister for
Education, Hagan, principal of Kyneton
State High School, and Hansen, Vic. Director
of Education, were at Scotch College, Melb.,
together; and Freeman, principal of Bendigo
State High School, used to teach them. The
four came together the other day at the
formal opening by Cohen of Kyneton High
School; it was the first time they had met in
a bunch since those school days. Two other
Scotch College boys of a later vintage, ex-
Premier Lawson (now a Senator) and Rus-
sell Clarke, M.L.C., were also among the
guests.
Because the Tango Maru fell foul of a
rock and punched a hole in her side, Diver
Albert has teen revisiting Thursday Island,
and because Diver Albert is an important
witness in one of the Sydney municipal
graft cases he had to return in a hurry.
Albert used to be know at T.I. as
“The Gentleman Diver.” Another well-
known character of his time was “Bill
the Groper” (Bill Howard), who earned his
name because he would go down in the
muddy-water season and scrape the bottom
for shell. Now the Japs do all the diving.
Prof. W. H. Williams, of Hobart Uni., was
nearly beaten by a woman for a place on the
institution’s Council the other day. The lady
is Dr. Christine Walch, who was medical
superintendent of the St. George District
Hospital, Sydney, before going to the Speck.
The Professor himself, now 76 years old.
knows his Sydney; he was headmaster of
Newington College between 1884 and 1893.
He is an authority on the Elizabethan dra-
matists and Dryden, and has written several
books about them.
Millionaire Owen, partner of Nevison,
who has floated many Australian loans, is
in the Commonwealth seeing how the money
has been spent. Owen married one of
Nevison’s daughters. He is on a 10-months’
tour of the world, dashing from point to
point. His fastest stretch was between
Hobart and Brisbane; lie was rushing to
catch Treasurer Earle Page before that
gentleman disappeared to his farm at Kan-
danga. Page sent him back through the
N.S.W. Northern Rivers, which Owen pro-
nounces one of the most glorious parts of the
planet.
William Longworth, the philanthropist
of Karuah (N.S.W.), who went to Cobar with
a few pounds in his pocket and left it a
millionaire, distributed a large slice of his
fortune among hospitals during his life,
which flickered out last week. His two
last bequests were £15,000 to the Mater
Misericordiae Hospital and £12,000 tp the
Australasian Society at Newcastle. Once
every year Longworth entertained a large
party of friends of his youth and their wives,
however humble their circumstances, at
dinner, and every Christmas he sent sub-
stantial cheques to old pals who needed the
money. Coal and wool added to the wealth
he extracted from copper.
Dave Low, who left The Bulletin to be-
come Britain’s most admired cartoonist, has
achieved another distinction. He has a
“middle” all to himself by A. A. Milne in
the Nation and Atiten.ctm. It takes the
form of a lyrically appreciative discussion of
“Lions and Lambs,” Low’s latest book of
drawings.
The cash-order system had its Sydney
genesis in the business of William Bucking-
ham, who died last week, and the Buckingham
shop, humble in the beginning, soared to a
thing of many storeys, partly as a result
of the change. He came from Yorkshire, and
gave generously to the Sydney Baptists, be-
sides serving as deacon for many years. Two
sons were air-fighters in the war.
The story that Lionel Logue, an accom-
plished South Australian, who taught elo-
cution for many years in Perth, has cured
the Duke of York of the impediment in his
speeeh has got into the London papers. The
Duke was trying hard to overcome his vocal
handicap while he was in Australia. Wire-
less helped him, and the deliberation of his
utterance suited the wireless. The impedi-
ment notwithstanding, radio enthusiasts
voted him an infinitely more effective speaker
than the gabbling type of politician.
The beginners who spoil photographic
film helped to make a fortune for
Thomas Baker, managing director of Kodaks
(Aust.), who died in Melbourne last week,
but nobody spent his money more wisely and
less ostentatiously. The Baker Institute of
medical research was a heavy drain on the
generous old man’s purse, and one of his
recent gifts was £3500 a year for five years
to enable the bio-chemistry laboratory at the
Alfred Hospital to carry on its vital inves-
tigations into disease. During the war the
w r hole of his income, except a modest sum
for the domestic budget, was handed to the
allied patriotic funds.
Knox College, Dunedin, has been making
staff changes. Prof. Hewitson, who has
knocked Knox into students since 1909, lias
retired, and has been succeeded by Dr. E.
N. Merrington, of First Church, Dunedin.
Hewitson, like the restless Arthur Lynch,
was born at Smythesdale (Vic.) ; Merring-
ton is a native of Sydney, was educated there
and lectured on philosophy at Sydney Uni.,
and served as chaplain with the Diggers in
Gallipoli and France. And Dr. S. F. Hunter
comes from Essendon (Vic.) to fill the chair
of Old Testament Studies at the college.
Before going to Essendon he put in eight
years in Oamaru.
The high status which Digger Bill Slater
acquired in the estimation of fellow-lawyers
while he was Vic. Attorney-General for 18
months was indicated by his election to the
presidency of the Law Institute in Mel-
bourne. The social reform bills he intro-
duced, particularly those relating to legal
assistance for poor persons and the adoption
of children, had the institute’s warm
approval. When Slater enlisted 13 years
ago he was a law clerk; he took advantage
of the special facilities. offered after his
return to get fully fledged.
The indefatigable Francis Birtles has not
allowed the mud of
the route across
Europe and Asia
to cake on his
tyres. He has left
for Central Aus-
tralia to organise
Shell oil depots
along the track
Burke and Wills
footed to their
camp at Cooper’s
Creek. As the
Cooper is liable to
be in flood at this
time, Birtles will
experiment with an
amphibian trailer,
a boat-shaped con-
trivance which
tows behind on
wheels on dry land
but can be lifted
off and used for
ferrying when
needed.
J. E. SMITH,
M.L.A. for Hamil-
ton (N.S.W.).
Jacob Garrard, whose name on a number
of N.S.W. schools recalls the time when he
was G. H. Reid’s Minister of Public Instruc-
tion, made one of a gathering of ancient
gospellers, lay and reverend, who meet every
year in the Sydney Gospel Union Hall.
Garrard is 82; but there were older men in
the party, notably David Doust, who is 92.
That fine old warrior drove his own car to
the meeting-place and parked it outside.
Josiah Symon and Lancelot Stirling are
left the senior ex-Parliamentarians of South
Aus. by the death, at 82, of J. P. D. Laurie.
Laurie was in the Assembly for a few years
from 1870 —11 years before either of them
and only five years after Adam Lindsay Gor-
don had been elected for the same district.
He was born at Warrnambool (Vic.), but
lived all his life just inside the S.A. border.
He ran the Border Watch at Mount Gam-
bier, owned sundry stations long ago, and
raced some really good horses, notably Cuttle-
fish and Guardfish. »
Tom Moiloy, who has figured once more
as an unsuccessful candidate for the Perth
mayoral chair, has been turned down so
often that he has probably long since lost
count of the tally of his reverses—certainly
everyone else has. Tom, who is a wealthy
property-owner with a preference for theatres
and pubs, sat in Groperland’s first Parlia-
ment under responsible government from
1892 to 1894. Then he was bumped out, and
he has never succeeded in getting back,
although he has seldom omitted to contest
a seat that offered him any sort of chance.
Assembly or Council, it was all one to Tom.
As a side-line the veteran sedulously con-
tests Perth mayoral elections —he actually
was mayor for two years long ago; and here,
too, except for that brief gleam of sunshine,
his luck has been just as persistently out.
But Moiloy, who is Irish and combative,
keeps a stiff upper lip and refuses to abandon
hope. • •
For the second time (the first was 13 years
ago) Leo Finn Bernard Cussen, now senior
puisne Judge of the Supreme Court, has con-
solidated the Vic. statutes. If the Houses
of Parliament will take the consolidation on
trust it will be ratified this session, subject
to an arrangement not to proclaim it for a
few months to permit of close examination.
The lawyers of both Houses and leading lay
members are on the Statute Law Revision
Committee, and know all about the details.
Cussen, J., who has just entered upon his
seventieth year, will take a few months’ holi-
day in 1929. Wasley, of the County Court,
has had his term as an acting Justice of the
Supreme Court extended until Oct. 31, and
that will enable the man who has been twice
thanked by Parliament to get away.
Isaac Isaacs, one of Victoria’s two great
Jews, would have succeeded George Turner
as Premier in February. 1901, if he had
decided to stay in State politics instead
of entering the Federal arena; he was
Acting-Premier in 1897 while Turner was
in England. It has now been revealed that
Deakin offered to stand aside from the Prime
Ministership when it was coming his way
—for the second time —in 1905 if Isaacs would
take it. Isaacs declined to be a party to
dimming the glory of Alfred, but joined his
Cabinet; in the following year lije was
elevated to the High Court.
One of the best-liked bankers in Maori-
land was Gorman Mclntosh, whose life’s
journey has ended at the 70th milestone;
he was general manager of the National of
N.Z. until a few months ago. A Scot,
though born in Dublin, he had to go to work
when a very small boy, his father having
died in Victoria. But he was ambitious;
went to night school, haunted libraries, and
got for himself a general education and busi-
ness training that made him eligible for a
bank post at £3 a week —high wages in
those days—four years before lie ceased to
be an infant in the eye of the law. Mcln-
tosh was fond of fishing and shooting, and
took an active interest in acclimatisation
societies in various parts of the Dominion.
While the A.W.U. boycotted the Peace-in-
Industry Conference and thus prevented the
rural worker getting his case heard, the em-
ployers’ side is well represented. The coun-
try delegation includes Hugh McLel-
land, director of the Wheat Board and him-
self a leading agriculturist; F. H. Tout, pre-
sident of the Ma State Graziers’ Associa-
tion ; and T. M. Daskein, of the Vic. Par-
toralists’ Association. And when the sub-
ject of agricultural machinery comes up Sam
McKay, of Sunshine, will be able to speak
with authority.
If Mrs. Glencross intends to hold on to
her job as one of the cinema censors, she
will not trouble Vic. Attorney-General Mae-
farlan at the next general election for Vic.
Assembly; she will not be eligible to nomi-
nate for Brighton. The lady was Mac’s
most troublesome rival at the by-election
seven months ago, and Labor members have
warned the new A.-G. that she would be a
thorn in his side if a dissolution were forced
now. When George Swinburne was a mem-
ber of the Vic. Electricity Commission he
had to resign before standing for the Senate,
as he had been advised that the £5OO a year
he drew made him the holder of an office of
profit under the Crown.
“10-2-4”: A cable speaks of “the merry
personality of Lord Dawson of Penn, who
is vigorous and cheerful, and radiates optim-
ism and good spirits.” I once sat a few
places from the gentleman at an Omar
Khayyam Club dinner, over which he pre-
sided. Several of London’s leading wits
spoke—Guedalla, Pett Ridge and J. C.
Squire among them—and some of their
quips were aimed at him. His appearance
of abysmal gloom never relaxed. Finally the
inevitable ass got up, and told the old, old
story of the mayor who confused Omar
Khayyam and Hunjadi Janos. He was
agonisingly bright, but the great physician’s
face only grew more unrelentingly bleak.
Dawson’s best-known work is “Dyspepsia
and the Conditions Underlying It,” and he
certainly looks as if he were a judge of the
complaint.
PEACE-IN-INDUSTRY POURPARLERS.
Sir Arthur Duckham takes tea with Jock
Garden.
“Hobo”: Jack Gordon, after whom the
town of Gordon vale (Q.) was named (B.
7/11/’2B), is still alive and well; in fact,
he can round up his cows and milk them
with the best. He lives at Mt. Sophia, six
miles south of Gordonvale, having disposed
of his many sugar properties; he only re-
cently resigned from the directorate of the
Mulgrave Central Mill after 25 years’ ser-
vice.
JIMMY’S ESTATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
That’s liis camp over there by the gidya.
His shaker and all of his tools
Will be down at the show he was working;
his horse will be out at the Pools.
There’s his cart, and it’s damned near a ruin.
No, I’m in no hurry; I’ll wait
While you make out your what-do-you-call-it
of all of old Jimmy’s estate.
I was always good cobbers with Jimmy, but
’twas seldom he spoke of the show
He’d been working since ever I knew him;
and, lumme, that’s ages ago.
And I never remember his grumbling or
growling or cursing his luck;
It was only a matter of sticking, so old
Jimmy said, and he stuck.
I remember the last time I passed here; I
said, “Well, you’re still hanging on.
You’re a sticker if ever there was one,” I
said: “if ’twas me I’d be gone.”
And the old man he smiled, kind of knowing,
and said in his quiet old way,
“Yes, I reckon you would, but—ah, well, I
suppose I’ll be leaving some day.”
And I said to myself, “Now, I wonder if he
has come on to a dab?”
Then I thought if lie has he would tell me;
he knows I am not one to blab.
I stopped and we had tea together, but up to
the time that I went
He said nothing more about leaving. I see
now what old Jimmy meant.
Well, anyway, there’s his belongings. You’d
better get on with your job;
Make out your invent’ry and show how a
John Hop can earn his few bob.
You can put down the horse and the shaker,
the tools and the rest of the truck.
But I reckon there’s one thing ’ll beat you—
you can’t put in old Jimmy’s pluck.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


THE CONVERT.
UNIONIST: “What brings you here, Bill?”
EX-MILITANT: “That.”
Poverty
Point
“Craiser”: A truce has been arranged be-
tween the Firm and Alfred Frith, and that
comedian’s carp-like grin will once more be
seen in Australia in connection with the
forthcoming production of “The Five O’Clock
Girl,’’ purchased by George Tallis in New
Yark, The incident whi.ch interrupted
Frith’s career with J.C.W* was his failure
to turn up on the opening night of “Prim-
rose,” at Sydney Majesty’s in 1925. His
disappearance caused as much heartburning
in Melbourne as in Sydney. A group of
young literati got his permission to call a
smart-set journal they were launching
Frith’s, but it vanished not long after its
namesake.
“Spokeshave” : It is curious that, although
nobody listens to an orchestra in the interval,
if it isn’t just so there is an immediate
unpleasant reaction. When the music struck
up at Melbourne Royal at the opening night
of “Interference” there was an astonished
pause in the buzz of conversation, and those
present asked each other what the Firm meant
by turning on a gramophone. It was a good
gramophone, too, as gramophones go ; but it
was no substitute for a dozen humans. The
Royal, incidentally, was the scene of that
other exercise in economy—“ The Trial of
Mary Dugan.” As the one set represented
a police court and the curtain remained up
the whole time and there was no orchestra,
the Firm was able to dispense with the ser-
vices of six or eight stage-hands and 10
musicians. The latest move is regarded in
some quarters as a retort to the musicians
union, which, from the employers’ point of
view, has been uppish of late. If so, it is
likely to do more harm to the public and the
proprietors than the unionists.
“Lond”: Birmingham city has set three
women to inspect its SO picture-theatres.
Such things as ventilation, sanitation, the
safety of the audience and of the operators are
looked into. The effect of a flickering film
on the eyesight is part of the study, and,
as a side-line, “behavior of the audience,”
which recalls many an old joke about the
early movies. It took humorists years to
lose the idea that the darkened theatre would
mean misbehavior. Evidently Birmingham
hasn’t lost it yet.
“Kiwi” : The establishment last September
of the Canterbury Repertory Theatre Society
brings the total of Maoriland repertory gangs
up to three. The Auckland Little Theatre
Society started the ball going in May,, 1925,
and, thanks largely to the good work of its
producer, Kenneth Brompton, it has done
well. The National Repertory Theatre Society
at Wellington has staged more than a dozen
plays during its two and a half years’ exist-
ence, including “Posterity,’* a one-act fantasy
by C. R. Allen, a Maorilander. Leo du.
Chateau, its original director, has been suc-
ceeded by Harison Cook. The baby of the
trio owes a lot to Professor James Shelley,
who was mainly responsible for bringing it
into the light.
“D.”: A factor that may keep the “talkies”
waiting on the doormat is the modern pic-
ture-palace and the acoustics thereof. The
only house in London suitable for the new
device seems to be the New Gallery in Regent-
street, where the movietone has been giving
rather disappointing representations of the
Prince of Wales, Lloyd George, etc., making
speeches. It is significant that even at the
New, which specialises in talking pictures,
audiences are not asked to listen to the
shadow-shapes for more than 10 minutes at
a time. In vast buildings, such as the
Tivoli in the Strand, which have their coun-
terparts in every Australian city, the talkies
would be quite inaudible. So that, not only
would exhibitors have to scrap a large pro-
portion of their foreign and colored audiences,
but in addition they would have to pull
down and remodel buildings on -which mil-
lions sterling had been outlaid.
“Cauboy”: The old-time circus is passing
-—another victim of the movies. Wirths’
latest Greatest Show on Earth, at present
sojourning in Melbourne, is not creating the
public excitement that it once did —and for
a good reason. When the lion-tamer reck-
lessly plunged into the den my small-boy
companion shared the boredom displayed on
the countenances of the animals. He had
seen the “Chang” film, in which the photo-
graph of a real wild tiger chased the photo-
graph of a real wild man through the photo-
graph of a jungle, and, sad to say, fake as
it was, the photograph was more impressive
than the reality. The Wirth brothers, how-
ever, are not daunted. They are steadily
adapting their entertainment to the taste of
the time. Gone is the hero who bestrode a
half-dozen milk-white chargers. The attenu-
ated ring would hardly contain them. All
the limelight is lavished on the lady from
the Folies, Paris, who performs the Dance
of the Thousand Feathers. Wirths’ now is
really little else than a vaudeville enter-
tainment, in which the audience sits all round
the performers instead of only in front. Even
the romantic smell of canvas is fading. I
noticed two ladies after their turn don fur
coats and drive away in a limousine.
“C. 8.” : A Bulletin announcement made
some time ago that Pavlova proposes to pay
us another visit is confirmed by Frank Tait.
The lady, who is stated to be as active as
ever, will open at His Majesty’s, Melbourne,
at Easter. During her 1926 season her
silent show had no competitors. This time
there will probably be a Fuller opera in full
blast.
“Hamfat”: George Marlowe (whose wife
is Ethel Buckley, once a stage lady of
considerable popularity) gets back into man-
agement as the leading spirit of the com-
pany which is taking over Sydney Empire
from the disappointed Rufe Naylor and his
ditto shareholders. George, who appeared on
the stage himself at the age of six as one
of the infants in “Norma,” built Sydney
Opera House. Associated with him in the
new venture is Ernest Rolls, who helped
Rufe Naylor to open the Empire with
“Sunny.”
“Cine Ma”: A pest of Movieland is “the
shifter.” He is the young man —and often
the elderly man—who keeps moving from
seat to seat in order to sit next to what he
regards as the likeliest-looking. girls. My
friend the usher at the Bathetic says that
he throws out as many as six shifters on a
week night, and a round dozen on Saturdays.
“F.S.”: Melbourne has at last got its per-
manent orchestra, or part of it. As the Mil-
lion Shilling Fund grows instrumentalists are
being put on a regular wage. The process
has gone as far as a permanent French
horn and a permanent clarinet. A permanent
big drum should follow in a year or two.
“Cauboy” : The failui-e of the Wilksperean
season in Melbourne—Wilkie claims a per-
sonal loss of £2OO0 —by no means indi-
cates that the intelligent playgoer is tired
of Shakspeare ; it only means that he has had
a little too much of Allan and of Allan’s lead-
ing lady. Wilkie is a capable producer, but
as an actor he has his limitations. In some
of his parts he is excellent; in others, merely
boring. Miss Hunter-Watts has one or two
good parts—she can no more interpret others
satisfactorily than a lark can sing grand
opera. Yet lack of funds compels the two
to take the leading roles in most of the 26
pieces in their repertoire. No wonder the
Princess towards the end of their season
was one long yawn of emptiness and desola-
tion. Wilkie has written to Mr. Bruce for
a subsidy, and he should have it. But it
should be a thumping good one, and it should
be stipulated that part of it should go in
paying for some first-class principals.
“C.R.”: J.C.W. distractions next year will
include “Show Boat,” the musical comedy
sensation of New Yoik, and “The New
Moon,” another song-an’-dancer. Perdoocers
always play for safety if they can, and
with two more Cinderella plays, “Laff That
Off” and “Little Accidents,” the Firm hopes
to repeat the success of “The Patsy. ’
Whether Miss Nugent, the star, will be
another Irene Homer remains to be seen.
“Spokeshave”: The people at Wirths’ on
the occasion that the girl trapezist missed
the net had cause to remember their even-
ing. but an audience in a Berlin variety-
hall had an even more horrible experience
recently. Two Frenchmen were billed to do
a cycling act without a safety-net, one of
them having to hang by the teeth to his
offsider, who rode head downwards on a
revolving wheel attached to the ceiling. The
wheel stopped and the man underneath was
unable to recover the upright position.
Women fainted in droves while the acrobat
clung on literally by the skin of his molars.
Attempts were made to swing a rope in his
direction, but without success. Finally a
cloth was stretched underneath and he was
ordered to drop. He fell right through it,
but not hard enough to kill himself. All
the time the management kept the band play-
ing to avert a stampede.
“Goldilocks”: It’s a hard life! In days
gone by many a talented actress never
had a look-in because she lacked inches; to-
day a majority of the leading woman on the
stage are on the short side. And now it’s
the tall actor, the very type demanded in the
old times, who is at a discount. One sky-
raking mummer complains that he was pro-
mised good roles by the Firm on- three occa-
sions, but the leading ladies simply declared
they were not going to have anyone on the
stage who would emphasise their shortness.
Some men are similarly pernicketty. Harry
Roberts, a bit on the short side himself, kept
tall men out of his companies, and Julius
Knight had a like fancy. Julius, of course,
played “opposite” the stately Maud Jeffries,
but even a tall woman will not dwarf an
average man as a really big male will.
RENDEZVOUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A gallant -shepherd with a courtly air,
Invites a shepherdess, his lady fair,
To leave the pedestal whereon she’s set,
And dance with him a graceful minuet.
He bows to her; she, blushing, curtsies low,
And ’neath the moon they tread the measure
slow,
A poem with a haunting song so sweet
That inspiration guides her'fairy feet.
She scarce disturbs the dew upon the sward
Whereon she dances with her shepherd lord,
Whose eyes are fixed upon her dainty face,
And slender form adorned with costly lace.
O Shepherdess, in satin white and cool,
Your boy will need high prices for his wool 1
N.S.W.
CRIPPS CLARK.


Old CbmiHl -phase
S 3
1
lull
U
Bit
%
Give that order in any bar
and watch the result
m
'i
*’u3
u
M
s
mp
into any bar and order Old Court Whisky. Ninety-
nine times out of every hundred it will be supplied
with pleasure.
On the odd occasion you may find an alternative recom-
mended —or you may be told that the house does not stock it.
If this occurs, we put it to you as a good Australian to ask
why. Press for a logical answer. Analyse that answer —
carefully.
We venture the opinion that the reason given will not
satisfy you.
No sound argument can be advanced against Old Court’s
quality and superiority.
a
iUTmlui
fjho Vbrkls' Purest /J '


HOTEL SYDNEY
Manager: HENRY S. PEISLEY.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel.
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
80ft. above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from 19/6
Bed and Breakfast from ........ 13/-
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines).
gdf
Direct &/
Intercommun-
icating
Phones in
jill'Bedrooms
Scott*
I Its comp 1 e t e appointments
I include Ladies’ Drawing Room,
I Music and Writing Rooms, and
Gentlemen’s Smoking, Writing Rooms
and Lounge. Electric fires in all
bedrooms. “Scott’s” is convenient to
Railway Stations, Passenger Steam-
ship Wharves, and all
places of public interest.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD
Telegrams and Cables:
“Scottsotel, Melbourne”
’Phone: Central 9011
(10 lines)
SCOTT’S HOTEL
Collins St., Melbourne
5.30
gd
ism
Stanley
Unbreakable
Vacuum Flask
Made entirely of steel
and lined with blue
amalite. Guaranteed to
keep liquids boiling Hot
for 18 Hours, and icy
cold for 36 Hours. Ab-
solutely unbreakable.
Ideal for travelling.
QUART
SIZE
57/6
2 Quart Size ~ 75/-
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In 2ue«n ‘Brisbane^
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
TTer Majesty’s “The Vagabond King
Royal (com. Saturday) “Mis’ Nell o’ New Orleans”
“°. N .7.V.V.7/// ”/////.■. V.V.V/. .
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Desert Song
Royal •• ■ Interference
Athen.e'u'm' 7.7.77 “The Family Upstairs”
Titoli Vaudeville
Majestic’ 7.7.7. M°ving Pictures
H oy T’s Moving Pictures
; ♦
The only claim that the Miles Malleson
three-acter, “Four People,” produced at Syd-
ney Playbox last Wednesday, has to its billed
name of “comedy” is that words as
“baby” and “seduce” are used in circum-
stances sufficiently incongruous to cause a
wry sort of laughter. For the rest, it is
melodrama of the mellowest; it even preaches
the dear old moral “Love will conquer all.”
Its most modernist note is the philosophy of
a man sufficiently “intellectual” to decide
that, provided it is to be only a temporary
affair, there is no harm in the girl whom
lie loves, but who does not love him that
way, going off with a married chap until
she sickens of him. She is saved, in the
Salvation Army sense of the word, by the
other single girl, who loves and is loved
by the married Lothario, but who had pre-
viously shirked the unchurched adventure,
realising that she cannot let the man go.
Quite a passable melodrama plot, which
with sincere instead of merely earnest acting
could be turned to fair account.
sjt * * *
If they did no more, the Playboxers demon-
strate that “life is real, life is earnest,” was
not spoken of the stage. There, illusion
takes the place of reality, and nowhere else
is the breach between earnestness and sin-
cerity quite so wide. Earnestly these play-
ers acted, but they did not act sincerely.
They did not create; did not get inside their
parts. They played a story, not a piece of
life; played not with their hearts but with
their minds. A politician talking on a bill,
a barrister addressing a jury, an auctioneer
selling up the prize sheep at the Boggy Greek
show —all these can triumph by mere earnest-
ness. But on the serious stage—indeed, in
all art —sincerity is the only true achiever.
At times the two chief women, Freda
McGhee and Mattie Doyle, revealed glimpses
BETTY LAMBERT, one of the several bright young ladies who
are telling the “Good News” at Sydney St. James.
of it, but only glimpses; the men, W. G.
Wright and that inimitable whispering bari-
tone Fred Hiley, were without a trace of
it. The women did remember that they had
bodies and hands and legs, given them by
a beneficent Providence to act with; the
only things the men used were their mouths,
and those automatically. Duncan Mac-
dougall, who is to be complimented on the
excellence of his producing, excused them
on the grounds that they had come in to fill
a gap, and had had only a few days in which
to master their parts. But that excuse covers
memorising chiefly: it does not cover moving
about stage with the mechanical stiffness of
a petrified robot, nor does it cover sitting
down as if apprehensive that the chair has
a pin in it. True, these four players, and
the only other one, Ina Lorraine, strove like
Britons. If only they had striven like
artists; if only they had forgotten their pre-
cious brains and acted with their hearts; if
only
¥
The crowd that packed Sydney Empire on
Saturday night was asked —maybe as an
advance punishment for its future sins—to
listen for about 10 minutes to a sort of
vocal movie, the Han-o-phone. Novelty
was the only apparent merit. The
pictures—a chap singing blatant variety
songs and accompanying himself with
a ukulele, and a man and woman in
a vaudeville songanbend item—were made
with photography of about the 1870 vintage,
and the associate noise sounded like a badly-
tuned wireless set receiving worn-out gramo-
phone records from station PHUT, Utah.
Synchronisation was passably accurate, but
as the figures did their contorting and genu-
flecting on the screen, while the noise they
were supposed to be guilty of came from
yards away to their left, the impression
was that they had severed diplomatic rela-
tions with their vocal organs, and listening
to the mechanised row one could not blame
them altogether. The noise, in fact, was so
mechanical, so patently coming out of a
can, that it was impossible to relate it with
even the shadows of humans. Not overlook-
ing the fact that the system in use was not
one of those about which overseas publicity
workers have been wildly whooping, this
Showman fears that a new hofror has
been added to the entertainment world, or
rather that an old horror—the horror of the
excruciating vaudeville voice blaring excru-
ciating bla bla—has been given a new oppor-
tunity to horrify.
* * * *
Fortunately the dire infliction occupied
very little of the bill, arid for the rest of
the evening Frank Neil’s bright musico-
medians rattled merrily along through a piece
labelled “Please Get Married,” providing an
entertainment which cannot be compared
with recent Empire shows without running
out of superlatives. The difference was
merely that between unspeakable crudity and
people who know something about acting,
who have voices among them, who work
together in harmony, and who, in short, are
qualified entertainers. Dresses that don’t
look as if they’d
been made at home
on the lawn-mower
and stage-fittings
that don’t broad-
cast a gin-case
origin help the
Neil party to give
a show that has, at
least, plenty of
snap, sparkle and
vivacity.
* *
G. F. Handel, in
addition to being
an inspired master
of melody and an
impeccable contra-
puntalist, had a
strong sense of the
dramatic and im-
parted it into his
oratorios. Only
one choirmaster in
a thousand can re-
produce adequately
the surprises and
climaxes as the
gross old Teuton
planned them, and
those who heard
the Welsh Choral
Society in “The
Messiah” at Syd-
ney Town Hall on
Saturday night
didn't miss a single
thrill. The choir,
600 strong, has a
sufficient backing
of male voices
(rather a rarity in
amateur organisa-
tions) ; conductor
E. 11. Jones knew
his score and
waved out of his
singing army a
really magnificent
performance of the
“Hallelujah” chorus. “For Unto Us”
was another well-balanced, crisply-enun-
ciated, intelligently-sung number. Solo re-
sponsibilities fell on Nance Marley, Helena
Stewart, Robert Harper and Oliver King, all
of whom were worthy of their fine choral
background.
# * ¥
“Sugar and Spice” made way at Sydney
Grand Opera House on Saturday for “Frills
and Frolics,” about as different from its
predecessor as lion cub is from lion cub.
It is a revue in 29 spasms, several of them
“held over for a second week by special
request”—it is not mentioned of whom. An
innovation is the reciting of some Dickens
purple patches as purple patches thoroughly
deserve to be recited. Poor Dickens! He
must find it unsettling having to turn so
often in his sleep. Fred Bluett and Arline
Paterson sing some new songs, and, taken
all round, the show still has plenty of kick
in it.
* * *
The indefatigable Clewlow, of the Mel-
bourne Repertory
Society, promises
something novel for
Christmas. On De-
cember 18 and 19 a
fifteenth - century
version of one of
the Coventry cycle
of mystery plays
(no relation to
Edgar Wallace)
will be staged in
director Rae’s beau-
tiful grounds at the
Botanic Gardens.
The large audience
that is exjrected will
be invited to risk
colds on seats pro-
vided on the lawn,
the lighting will be
by Cynthia, assisted
by the State Elec-
tricity Commission,
and the scenery
will be by Nature.
Mary Bourke will
take the part of
Mary, of the Gospel
story, Keith Roberts
will be Joseph and
Edgar Arnold will
be lierod.
* *
Owing to a con-
tinued demand for
“I n t e r f erence.”
Leon Gordon will
die or an obscure
complaint at Mtel-
bourne Royal
nightly and at the
usual matinees until
the 21st. On the
22nd he will remove
to the Comedy and
unloose “Scandal.”
Margaret Banner-
man will step into
the abandoned
Royal on the same night. On the 22nd also
Nicola, the magician, will materialise at the
King’s, after an absence from Melbourne of
six years. On Saturday “The Family Up-
stairs” will do a midnight flit from the
Athenaeum to enable “The Wrecker” to enter
in. The epidemic of railway disasters will
commence a week later.
* * *
As the occasion seems to demand it, “Rio
Rita” hereby gets a paragraph all to itself.
It opens at the Princess, also on the 22nd.
“America’s Leading Lady of Comedy” is
once more at Melbourne Tivoli. This time
her name is Flo Lewis, and her turn is a
curiously vapid yet curiously entertaining
one. Exactly what or who she represents,
unless it is herself, isn’t clear, but she is the
possessor of an unforced voice and a not too
devastating twang, and her quaint and unex-
pected ways catch the somnolent laugh before
it has quite time to slip into a snore.
* #
If there was nobody else worth mention-
ing, the name of Barbette on the current
Sydney Tivoli bill would ensure a reason-
able return for money invested at the box-
office. Barbette, however, is not even the
top-liner, that honor going to Gautier’s
Bricklayers, a tip-top dog turn. Further
good variety is provided by Hector St. Clair,
and Amoros and Jeanette, different brands
of comedians; Weeks and Joyce, acrobats;
Marcelle and Minka, dancers; and sundry
others. Altogether a rattling good evening’s
entertainment.
* * *
With Stiffy departed from the famous
partnership, Mo’s production of “Mo and
his Merrymakers” at Fullers’ on Saturday
night took on a semblance of “Hamlet”
without the Prince of Denmark. Charles
Megan now suffers the outrageous shafts of
Mo’s persiflage. May Daly is a newcomer
to the co., and is not hard to look at, or to
listen to, either. Sadie Gale is a soubrette
of parts. Meredith’s Melodists would better
deserve their title if they were not so
afflicted by the saxophone complex.
* * %
The Vanboucicaults continue their quick-
change season at Sydney Royal by changing
from “On Approval” to “Mis’ Nell o’ New
Orleans” on Saturday. On the following
Saturday night they will revive “Aren’t We
All?” and the next week-end will make the
last of their offerings, “Mr. Pirn Passes By.”
The season is billed to close definitely on
January 9. “The Vagabond King,” at Her
Majesty’s, “The Patsy” at the Cri. and
“Good News” at the St. James, are still
reaching out after records. This Showman
had another look at “The Vagabond King”
last week, and was convinced that the show
is even better than he at first thought it.
Sydney Crystal Palace is experimenting
with a purely feminine show, a movie called
“Motherhood,” for ladies only. Other new
pictures current around the harbor include
“Mating Call” and “Waterfront,” at the
VIRGINIA PERRY, with the successful “Desert Song,” at
Melbourne His Majesty’s.
Capitol; “Plastered in Faris” and “A Woman
Against the World” (Regent) ; “The Water-
hole” and “Hot Heels” (Haymarket) ; “The
Drag Net” and “The Wife’s Relations”
(Lyceum and Lyric).
H*
The acting of the Moscovitch co. at Adel-
aide Royal is worthy of something better
than the plays the party is employed on.
Blunt, Madison and Hastings all give strong
support to their principal, and the season is
highly popular. The old “Quaker Girl” is
being given for a week at the P. of Wales for
charities: briskly danced and well sung. The
Regent has Long Tack Sam and co.; the
Pav. has Arthur Tauchert with Winalot and
other horses on the screen; the York has
Lewis Stone and Colleen Moore in different
pieces; and Wondergraph idealises the for-
merly sordid “Seventh Heaven.”
“Bi”: Clyde Cook, the Australian film
comedian, has just finished his first talkie
picture, “Lucky in Love.” One critic says
that although Clyde’s accent is a bit broad,
his voice takes to talkies like a duck to
water.
“Spokeshave”: When I consider that the
average amateur actress is a dapper with a
figure as undeveloped as her mind, I feel
sorry for the producer of repertory plays.
When Shakspeare introduced a character, he
simply wrote “Enter Desdemona,” and left
it at that. The modern playwright would
provide something like this:—
Desdemona enters and stands just inside the door-
way, looking at her father with defiant and yet
reverential eyes. She is 20, tall, with broad, square
shoulders, slim strong hips and long beautifully
conical legs. Her straw-blond hair is bobbed. Her
face is handsome rather than pi'etty, the bony struc-
ture prominent, the forehead high, the lips of her
large mouth clearly modelled above the firm jaw,
the eyes beautiful and bewildering, extraordinarily
large and a deep greenish blue, and they have a
quality of continually shuddering before some
terrible enigma; of being wounded to their depths.
When she turns towards Othello, however, her body
appears to swell, her face is suffused with a tender,
clinging-vine beauty, a sweet loving-kindness, the
ghost of her secret love, hovers girlishly, fleetingly
about the corners of her mouth, although her lips
are still grim with the prisoner-pain of a walled-
in soul.
The above is not invention. It is substan-
tially culled from the actual stage direc-
tions for the heroine supplied by Eugene
O’Neill in the script of “Strange Interlude.”
No wonder Gregan McMahon is losing his
top hair.


The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31 st December, 192 7,
£18,567,527,
of which 85% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age.
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company’s capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1927, £609,330.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Castlereagh
' Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
The Patent Indestructible
Garbage Destructor
Is the only Incinerator which is
everlasting and satisfactory,
odorless, smokeless.
OUR NEW CATALOGUE CONTAINS
INCONTESTABLE PROOFS.
GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown.
’Phones: P 2715. 1.2716.
ST'S'
‘*-*22225125
JESSSm
■ Mi
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Risk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The United Insurance Co.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1918.. 66,272 10 p.c. = 14,000 52,272 *317,339
Transferred to capital, £40,000 .. 277,339
1919.. 66,402 10 p.c. = 18,000 48,402 325,741
Transferred to capital, £20,000 .. 305,741
1920. . 90,906 10 p.c. = 22,500 68,406 374,147
Transferred to capital, £25,000 .. 349,147
1921.. 83,975 10 p.c. = 25,000 58,975 408,122
Transferred to capital, £50,000 .. 358,122
1922.. 58,862 10 p.c. = 30,000 28,862 386,984
Transferred to capital, £26,000 .. 361,984
1923.. 74,839 10 p.c. = 32,500 42,339 404,323
Transferred to capital, £25,000 . . 379,323
1924.. 74,711 10 p.c. = 35,000 39,711 419,034
Transferred to capital, £26,000 .. 394,034
1925.. 91,546 10 p.c. = 37,500 1 ~ .„ c nan
To Pension Reserve, £lO,OOO f 44 ’ 046 438 > 080
Transferred to capital, £25,000 .. 413,080
1926.. 66,321 10 p.c.- 40,000 26,321 439,401
Transferred to capital, £25,000 .. 414,401
1937.. 66,748 10 p.c. = 42,500 24,248 438,649
Transferred to capital, £25,000 .. 413,649
1928.. 67,403 10 p.c. = 45,000 22,403 436,052
For the first time in 11 years a halt
has been called in the annual distribution
of bonus sci-ip. Since 1912 £350,000 has
been added to paid capital, making it
£450,000 at September 30, and £350,000 of
the increase represents gift issues. The prac-
tice could not well continue without a breath-
ing space. Last year the 10 p.c. div. called
for exactly double what it did in 1920, and
though the return from interest and rents
was still more than enough to pay the div.,
underwriting profits have fallen off consider-
ably.
Nevertheless there is a good deal that is
attractive in the position. Reserves at Sep-
tember 30 were only £13,948 short of paid
capital, and the co. has a discerning man-
agement and a strong and steadily-expanding
connection. Here is a view of the progress:
1915. 1925. 1927. 1928.
Gross
premiums. . £338,339 £539,705 £551,693 £612,115
Re-insurances 150,052 241,985 248,223 265,724
Net premiums £188,287 £297,720 £303,470 £346,391
Last year a slightly smaller proportion of
the risks was farmed out, reinsurances
amounting to 43.4 p.c. of the gross premium
income as against 45, 44.6 and 44.8 p.c. back
to 1925. But despite care in the selection
of its risks, the co. was unable to escape
the generally unfavorable loss experience,
which was particularly severe in Maoriland,
where nearly 45 p.c. of the year’s fire losses
are said to have been due to “carelessness.”
Marine claims also were heavier than usual.
Here is a comparison of the co.’s' underwrit-
ing experiences since the beginning of this
century:—
Net Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate
1900. . £70,779 £38,589 £25,296 54.5 p.c. 35.7 p.c
1905.. 88,609 42,250 35,832 47.7 „ 40 4
1910.. 111,906 55,094 49,276 49.2 „ 44 0 ”
1915.. 188,287 88,220 77,029 46.8 „ 39 4 ’
1920.. 287,193 93,040 131,359 32.4 , 45 7
1922.. 259,675 99,141 136,766 38.2 , 52.7
1923.. 263,558 93,600 132,363 35.5 50 2
1924.. 285,093 120,668 128,149 42.3 „ 44 9 ’
1925.. 297,720 101,465 146,677 34.0 „ 49 2
1926. . 296,273 131,016 143,572 44.2 , 48'4 ”
1927.. 303,470 127,573 155,778 42.0 „ 51.3 ”
1928.. 346,391 162,914 164,724 47.0 „ 47.6 „
Tlnxt a tight hold was kept upon exes, is
obvious from the substantial cut of 3.7 p.c.
in last year’s expense rate. It was a wel-
come retreat after the determined advance
in the figures over the preceding four years.
Of the £8946 by which exes, increased dur-
ing the year, £7266 was on account of taxa-
tion (£35,038) ; losses were £35,341 heavier.
Thus the extra £42,921 of net premiums
gathered, and another £1366 besides, was
swallowed up in claims and exes., leaving
an underwriting profit equal to only 5.4 p.c.
of the net premium income. That compares
with 7.9, 7.3, 16.6, 12.7 and 14 p.c. back '
to 1923.
The returns from underwriting and in-
vestments have borne the following varying
proportions:—
Underwriting. Interest, etc.
1920 .. .. £62,793 £28,113
1922 .. .. 23,777 35,085
1923 .. .. 37,595 37,244
1924 . . . . 36,275 38,436
1925 . . . . 49.578 41,968
1926 . . . . 21,684 44,637
1927 .. .. 20,119 46,630
1928 . . . . 18,753 48,650
Interest and rents brought in 5.5 p.c. on
average funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) last year, about the same rate as
in the previous term. On that basis the
maintenance of a 10 p.c. div. out of interest
earnings means that reserves need to be
kept close up to paid capital—gifts, there-
fore, would largely depend upon the course
of underwriting results.
Funds over 2+ times greater than last
year’s net premium incomes give policy-
holders a wide margin of protection. If
more than that is wanted there is another
£5 at call on each of 90,000 £lO shares. But
there is nothing amongst the assets to cause
anxiety. No less than 66.8 p.c. (£690.369)
of the total is represented by Government
securities and deposits. Premises are in at
£103,691, and worth a lot more; £117,695 is
out on mortgage, and to meet liabilities of
£115,326, including provision for unadjusted
losses, there was £112,122 of book debts, cash
and accrued interest.
The market, confident of the future, pays
£ll 2s. 6d. for the scrip. The immediate
return at that price is only 4.1 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The visible backing
amounts to £9 16s. lid. per share in net
tangibles.
Robert Reid and Co., Ltd.
, Dividends x
i —Prefs. —^
Profits. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves.
July, £ £ £ £ £
1920. .309,662 13,672 10 p.c.= 47,889 I „ n „ 0 19
Reserves capitalised, £161,669 J 6 ’
Inner reserves disclosed, £72,709.. 376,022
f 85,799 14,000 8,496 74p.c.=45,678 393,647
1921 j Provision for depreciation of stock,
[ £300.000 ' 93,647
1922.. 35,457 14,000 20,204 5 p.c.=30,452 64,448
Inner reserves disclosed, £30,452.. 94,900
1923. .141,458 14,000 20,000 10 p.c.=60,903 141,455
1924.. 99,676 14,000 20,000 10 „ „ 60,903 146,228
1925.. 76,730 14,000 20,000 7 „ „ 36,542 152,416
Inner reserves disclosed, £15,226 . . 167,642
1926.. 41,780 14,000 20,000 5 p.c. =30,452 144,970
1927.. 66,453 14,000 20,000 5 „ „ 30,452 146,971
1928.. 64,240 14,000 20,000 5 „ „ 30,452 146,759
Although trade turnovers generally were well
below the previous year’s level, and most
retailers adopted a liand-to-mouth buying
policy, keeping stocks low, this big whole-
sale softgoods house was able to write last
year’s net profit at only £2213 below the
1927 figure. Nevertheless there was nothing
very attractive in the showing, which reflects
the altered conditions in the trade. After
allowing for both lots of prefs.—they call
for £34,000 p.a.—the balance of the year’s
net earnings was only 4.9 p.c. on the ordi-
nary capital compared with 5.3, 1.2, 7 and
10.8 p.c. back to 1923. That a trifle more
than last year’s disclosed net profit was dis-
tributed suggests a confidence by the board
in the position that is not to be gathered from
the figures. Obviously there is a lot of lee-
way yet to be regained before the manage-
ment can feel quite satisfied. Reserves at
July 19 were only a shade stronger than they
were four years ago, notwithstanding that
£15,226 of the inner strength had been put
on view meanwhile.
Moreover the position of the wholesaler
has. changed completely of recent years. The
policy of a large turnover on small-profit
max-gins has foi-ced many retailers to deal
direct with the manufacturer and to become
their own importers; and many do much of
their own manufacturing, too. Thus a lot
more business than formerly passes by the
wholesale house, which has to get a multi-
tude of small orders to make up its volume
of trade. Amongst other things that has
made it difficult to keep costs in line with
falling values; also it has made the bad-
debts question more acute. Further, the
wholesaler is obliged to carry large stocks
and to make heavy forward purchases, and
it is thete that capricious fashion and price
fluctuations have played havoc. The amount
paid for goods is something definite to put
into an account; but when lines begin to
stick to the shelves, and prices are on the
down grade, the figure to be put against
stocks becomes something upon which hope
pulls one way and fear pulls the other, and
usually hope .is the stronger of the two.
All this is exhibited in Robert Reid’s figures
by writings-down of stocks and the general
trend of profits since 1920.
Here is the co.’s position as balance-sheet
figures disclose it
1926. 1927. 1928.
Ord. capital .. .. £609,035 £609,035 £609,035
Pref. capital . . . . 450,000 450,000 450,000
Debentures and interest 150,469 150,469 150,469
Mortgages .. .. 82,353 83,652 82,192
Overdrafts, etc. . . 265,758 410,189 349,081
Creditors . . . . 339,593 320,787 241,672
Properties . . . . 234,470 235,233 241,147
Plant, etc 69,978 78,654 77,894
Stocks 1,109,595 1,212,452 1,143,401
Book debts . . . . 613,757 666,221 605,047
Investments, cash, etc. 128,214 93,424 93,870
Last year stocks were worked down
£69,051, leaving them at £1,143,401. Except-
ing the 1926 figure, tvhich was affected by
the heavy discounting of the co.’s Melbourne
stocks, the total was the lowest since 1920.
Mainly because of that and a reduction of
£61,174 in book, debts, the board was able
to clip £79,115 off the amount coming to
trade creditors, and reduce the overdraft and
deposits by £61,108. Taking into account
the £150,469 of 6 p.c. mortgage debenture
stock and interest, the morc-or-less liquid
surplus (£1,081,904) was £11,904 stronger
than at the previous balance.
Of the £1,059,035 of paid capital the public
is interested only in the prefs.—2oo,ooo 7
p.c. and 250,000 8 p.c. Last year’s net profit
was nearly twice their combined annual re-
quirements. Excluding the depreciation
(£37,790) and pensions (£57,154) reserves
the net tangible backing for the 7 per cents,
was a shade over £6, and for the 8 per cents,
a shade over £4. The market prices the
former around par; for the latter 19s. 9d. is
asked.
Automatic Totalisators, Ltd. (Sydney).
Nominal
Net To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 1,061 Nil 1061 1061
1920.. 4,315 Nil 4315 5376
1921.. 5,241 5 p.e. = 9,591 1026
1922.. 9,566 5 „ „ 9,591 1001
1923.. 9,414 5 „ „ 9,591 824
1924.. 9,718 5 „ „ 9,591 127 951
Prefs. Ords. £
1925.. 9,919 10 p.c. 5 p.c. = 9,651 268 1219
1926.. 15,136 10 „ 6 „ „ 12,645 2491 3710
1927.. 16,625 10 ~ 6 „ „ 13,494 3131 6841
British rights sold; net additions to
general reserve, £47,956 . . .. 54,797
1928.. 20,724 10 p.c. 324 p.c. =67,202 8319
Apart from the sale of the co.’s British rights,
foreign profits (£12,505) were only a few
pounds better. The leap of £4099 in the
year’s net result was almost wholly on
account of Australian profits (£8219, up
£4062). The improvement was due to a
cut of £4314 in exes. (£30,089) ; gross profits
(£51,413) were actually £215 less than the
1927 figure. The four new machines installed
in the F.M.S. during the year were in use
for only part of the term, and the two built
for Perth (W.A.) are not expected to be
earning anything until Sept., 1929. A con-
tract is in hand for the supply of two new
machines in .Ceylon, but it. is not anticipated
that these will be at work until about the
end of next year.
The most important development during
the term was the sale of the co.’s rights in
Great Britain and Ireland to an English co.
for £lOO,OOO cash and a royalty of one-
eighth of one per cent, on the turnover, with
a guaranteed minimum of £2OOO p.a. After
paying all exes, in connection with this con-
tract. handing an unspecified amount to
Automatic Ticket Issuers, Ltd., for ticket-
issue rights, and writing an unstated
sum off patent rights, etc., the £47,956
that remained provided a 25 p.c. bonus
for shareholders. That was in addition
to an extra 1£ p.c. tacked on to
the ord. div., making it 7$ p.c.; thus the*
ords. got 32-J p.c. for the year. The average
over the last 10 years, however, is only a
shade under 7 p.c.
The American deal for 120,000 dollars,
covering the sale of the co.’s rights in the
U.S.A., Mexico and Cuba, fell through, due,
apparently, to no fault of the co. Exes, in
connection with this contract were evidently
met out of the proceeds of the English sale.
The recently-formed French subsidiary,
Automatic Totalisators (France), Ltd., in
which the parent holds all the 100,000 ords.
and has guaranteed the div. on 100,000 10
p.c. cum. prefs. for 20 years, commenced
earning on March 28 last, and wrote net
profit at £10,393 for the year to June 30.
Although that result was won in a period
of only three months, it is wise to remember
that the time is equal to about two-thirds
of the Longchamps racing season. How-
ever, earnings, which bore some non-recurring
expenses, are expected to improve. Never-
theless profits will have to exceed £15,000
p.a.—£lo,ooo minimum pref. div. and £5OOO
pref. capital redemption fund before the
ords. can get into the picture. At .Tune 30
the parent had advanced the pup £8698 on
account of pref. divs. and £22,173 for busi-
ness purposes, and did not have to go outside
for any of the money, either.
The 1 year’s activities are reflected in this
comparison of balance-sheet figures:—
IQOQ IQ9« IQ9T IQ9R
Paid capital. . £191,825 £206,879 £235,616 £241,825
Liabilities .. 9,520 13,495 17,289 10,478
Patents, plant,
etc. .. 177,799 198,696 217,817 200,133
Book debts .. 33,644 28,210 30,853 56,290
Freeholds, etc. 6,176 6,793 6,805 6,808
Stock,. .. 4,298 10,221 9,619 13,750
Shares . . 100,000 100,000
Cash . . .. 6,604 13,683 30,691 73,840
During the last term £17,685 more was writ-
ten off than was spent upon patent rights,
models, plant, totalisators, etc., reducing the
item to £200,133. How much of that is
intangible has not been disclosed. All that
can be said definitely is that there is less
froth than there was 12 months ago. Against
the lot is a depreciation reserve of £125,356,
of which £lOO,OOO is represented by shares
in the French subsidiary. At present these
have no tangible value, and, under existing
terms, will not be able to earn anything in
20 years’ time. As the co.’s rights for
various countries are sold, those rights
become much less valuable, or perhaps of no
value at all, to the co. itself; hence the im-
portance of adequate depreciation. The
financial position improved. After allowing
for the final div. and bonus the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£68,579), including stocks,
was £27,324 stronger than at the previous
balance.
The ords., which have a lively market,
were at 18s. in Feb. last; sellers asked
255. 6d. two months later, and in August the
figure reached 345. 6d. Recent sales were
at 325. The return at that price, after
allowing for the bonus (ss-.) and div.
(Is. 6d.), is 6 p.c. on a 74 p.e. div. basis
Excluding the depreciation reserve the back-
ing amounts to 20s. lOd. in net assets.
For the prefs.—there are 50,000 of them
carrying a cumulative 10 p.c., and they have
priority as to capital—buyers offer 235.; sel-
lers ask 255. At the middle price the return
is 8.3 p.c. The backing amounts to a shade
over £5 per share in net assets, and last
year’s net profit was over five times their
annual requirements.
S. Bennett, Ltd. (Sydney).
Nominal
To Re- Re-
Oct., Net Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 28,785 8 p.c. =' 12,000 1
Preliminary exes, written off 2,451 }■ 12,718 7,442
Staff Provident Fund .. 1,616 J
1921.. 17,317 8 p.c. = 12,000 { .
Staff Fund.. .. .. 500 j 4,817 12,259
1922.. 16,201 7 p.c. = 10,588 1 A . a
Staff Fund.. .. .. 400 j 5 ’ 213 17 ’ 472
Premiums on new shares . . 12,500 29,972
Profit on property sale .. 3,000 32,972
1923.. 20,104 8 p.c. = 13,324 6,780 39,752
1924.. 31,862 8 „ „ 17,200 14,662 54,414
Deficit.
Goodwill disclosed at £62,000 .. 7,686
Reserves.
1925.. 40,921 8 p.c. = 22,147 18,774 11,188
Deficit.
From plant reserve, £16,552 ~ 5,364
Reserves.
1926.. 44,685 8 p.c. = 28,746 16,939 10,575
1927.. 61,497 9 ~ „ 35,496 26,001 36,567
Written off, £5870 .. .. .. 30,706
1928.. 57,874 9 p.c. = 37,890 19,984 50,690
Profits in the table take into account move-
ments in the plant replacement reserve. For
the 12 months to Oct. 31, 1027, £22,372
was added to this reserve, out of which £5870
was taken for the purchase of machines to re-
place old ones that had to be scrapped. Last
year the net addition to the fund was £17,208,
making it - £85,709 at Oct. 31, and some or
all of that may not be true profit l . According
to the chairman “plant and machinery has
been maintained in first-class condition, and
has been adequately depreciated for the year
by an increase in the plant replacement re-
serve.” Treating the lot as profit there was
a backslide of £3623 in last year’s net result,
notwithstanding that the average capital at
work was about £26,000 more than in the
previous year. Thus the ratio of net profits
to average capital fell back to 13.7 p.c.; it
was 15.5 p.c. in the previous year and 12.3.
14.7, 14.8 and 12 p.e. back to 1923. And
that is leaving out of account the capitalisa-
tion of an unspecified amount in connection
with the establishment of the Sporting and
Dramatic News, the publication of which
was commenced during the co.’s last fiscal
year-. At the close of accounts in 1927
shares in other cos. had a book value of
£900; including establishment expenditure
the figure was £5532 at Oct. 31> The board
does not say, how the infant fared up to
the time the books were ruled off; possibly
it proved more of a hindrance than they
cared to admit. The final div. for 1927 was
at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a., but only 9 p.c.
was paid last year; this left a shade over one-
third of the net earnings in the business,
making the visible accumulations £50,690 in
excess of goodwill (£62,000). Goodwill is
a mercurial item in a newspaper.
The main profit-earner, the Evening
News, was Sydney’s chief evening paper
for about -10 years, but after the energetic
Sun people bought out the old Star, in 1910.
the News dropped behind in the race. About
seven years ago Holdings, Ltd., a cot repre-
senting some of Sydney’s chief retailers, be-
came interested and a revival began. Paid
capital, which was £150,000 in 1921, grew
to £419,620 at Oct. 31. an increase of
£269,620 in seven years. For the most part
the new money has gone into freehold and
plant. By the time the lease of the old
Market-street premises expired the co. had
built itself a fine new home fronting Castle-
reagh and Elizabeth streets. The change
over was made about 24 years ago. Though
it must have cost a lot of money all that
visibly happened was that the plant replace-
ment reserve was drawn upon for £16,553
for new machinery and £6517 spent on one
of the subsidiary journals was written off
out of profitst
The expansion of the business is reflected
in balance-sheet movements:—
1Q99 IQOR 1097 IQ9ft
Capital .. £152,500 £372,653 £415,699 £419,620
Liabilities . . 15,592 217,614 151,055 172,810
Freehold, plant,
etc.* .. 77,550 485,670 499,076 543,393
Stocks . . 27,391 71,758 67,769 56,969
Book debts . . 33,056 56,484 49,097 54,992
Cash, shares, etc. 6,656 1,900 1,883 6,712 f
“Goodwill, £62,000, although undisclosed; has
been deducted from the 1922 figures.
(Includes establishment account Sporting and
Dramatic News.
Chief movement last year was the addition
of £44,317 to the book value of freehold,
plant, etc. Part of the increase may have
been on account of the new publication. To
finance the outlay only £21,755 was tacked
on to the debt, making it £172,810 at Oct. 31.
Excluding shares in other cos., etc., but in-
cluding stocks (£56,969, down £10,800). the


Test the New Model 11
In America, the Eureka’s home country, approximately one in every
three cleaners sold is a Eureka, even though the public has seventy
different makes and “brands” from which to choose. Actually
there are over 2,000,000 satisfied users.
Gets,
IMoreDirt
VACUUM CLEANER
SIDE 7 "'
dfg
df
WITH ANY OTHER
ELECTRIC CLEANER
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
MOSELEY. EUREKA MAYTAG, Limited
(Registered under the N.8.W. Companies Acts 1899-1918.)
Nominal Capital, £lOO,OOO
Divided into 40,000 Cumulative Preference Shares and 60,000 Ordinary
Shares of £1 each.
PRESENT ISSUE.
25,000 eight per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares, entitled to participate
in profits up to a maximum distribution of a 10 per cent, dividend,
and 25,000 Ordinary Shares.
Directors: W. P. MINELL, F.0.P.A., Public Accountant, Q.N.B. Chambers, 27 Hunter Street,
Sydney, N.S.W. ; A. M. POOLEY, The Astor, Macquarie Street, Sydney, N.S.W. ; P. HARLEY
MOSELEY, Managing Director, 301 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Bankers: In AustraIia—AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE, LTD. ; In New Zealand—BANK
OF NEW ZEALAND.
Solicitors: Messrs. DEANE, HASELHURST and HOWARD, Sydney; Messrs. FINDLEY,
IIOGGARD, COUSINS and WRIGHT, Wellington, N.Z.
Auditors: Messrs. THOMAS DAVIS, SHEEDY and CO., Martin Place, Sydney; Messrs. WATKINS,
HULL, HUNT and WHEELER, Wellington and Auckland, N.Z.
Secretary and Registered Officer J. L. GROUSE, A.1.1.A., 301 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The Company has been formed to take over as a “going concern,” the business carried on by
Mr. P. Harley Moseley as Agent and Indentor of Electrical Appliances, etc. The Head Office
of the business is at 301 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, with branches as listed hereunder: —
SCOPE OF THE BUSINESS.
The business of P. Harley Moseley has been developed on the sale of the products of
several American Factories. The principal Houses represented are: —
The Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co.—Electric Vacuum Cleaners.
The Waters Genter Company. Automatic Toasters and Waffle Bakers.
The Maytag Company.—Electric and Petrol Washing Machines.
The American Ironing Machine Company.—Gas and Electric Ironing Machines.
Each of the Companies described above, in addition to being the largest exclusive manu-
facturer of its kind in the world, produces only the best quality appliances.
INFORMATION.
The full Prospectus may be obtained from the Company’s Registered Office, 301 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, where copies of the Memorandum and Articles of Association, and of all certificates
and relevant contracts may he seen ; or from any of the Company’s Branch Offices.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR SHARES.
I desire to express my personal appreciation for the good support already
accorded to Moseley, Eureka Maytag, Ltd., and to advise the public and
especially users desirous of receiving shares that
“Even if the present issue of 50,000 shares is over subscribed,
the Directors will not go to allotment until Jan. 15, 1929, so that
applicants for shares will not be called upon for any further payment
until after that date.”
You are urged to forward application money to nearest branch office at
once, before remaining shares available are applied for —as the allotments will
be in the order in which applications are received.
Application is 2/6 per share, and allotment 2/6 per share, balance in calls
not exceeding 1/6 per share, at intervals of not less than one month.
Post the coupon with application money to Moseley, Eureka Maytag, Ltd.,
301 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, or nearest branch office:—
1 1 6 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
“H.G.” Building, Adelaide.
663 Hay Street, Perth.
Dominion Building, Wellington, N.Z.
Dilworth Building, Auckland, N.Z.
Government Life Building, Wanganui, N.Z.
Thomson’s Building, New Plymouth, N.Z.
(Signed) P. HARLEY MOSELEY,
Managing Director.
POINTS FOR INVESTORS
An established business with an efficient sales
organisation throughout Australia and New Zea-
land, which has proved a profit-earning enterprise ;
not a speculation.
The certified average loss by Bad Debts during
the past three years is under 1 p.c.
The whole of the capital subscribed will go into
the business.
4 The Vendor’s consideration is entirely in shares,
more than half of which are deferred as to capital
and dividend, and his remuneration as Managing
Director is principally by percentage on net profits.
5 No promotion shares are being or will be
issued.
6 The Company is guaranteed by the Vendor against
any deficiency in assets acquired or excess of
liabilities taken over.
7 Bach of the exclusive agencies is covered by a
satisfactory agency contract.
Application will be made to list the shares on all
Stock Exchanges in Australia and New Zealand.
The saving which the additional .Capital would
have effected in Interest and other charges entailed
for the last certified completed half-year trading
period, together with the net profit earned during
that period, would have assured a dividend at the
rate of 10 per cent, per annum on the Preference
Shares, and 21 per cent, per annum on the Ordi-
nary shares it is proposed to issue at present.
PRESS COMMENTS
“The Bulletin” say„. — *
“When the present issue is fully subscribed and paid, the net tangible backing for the preference? will be approximately 46/-, and net earnings for the year to Dec. 31,
1927, were nearly 21 times their minimum requirements. Net profits of fIS,OOO are spoken of for 1928, but if only half that amount is earned it will be more than
enough to'pay an all round 10 per cent, on paid capital of £68,000.”
Mr. T. M. Foster, A.F.1.A., A.C.1.A., A.A.1.5., Financial Editor of the “Sunday Times,” in the issue of November 25.\ says:
“The advent of additional capital should greatly improve matters, so much so that the net profits of £lB,OOO as anticipated on sales of £200,000 are well within the
bounds of possibility. That would give 30 per cent, on the ordinary shares, and adequately protect the dividend on preference shares, which, on participating rights,
rises to 10 per cent. The shares should be a good proposition, and are recommended as an investment with prospects. Profits since July 1 have already accrued to the
company.”
The “Sunday Times,” Dec. 2 issue, says:—
“Intending investors need have no_ fear regarding Moseley, Eureka Maytag, Ltd., losing the Eureka or Maytag agencies at the end of eight years, so long as the organ-
isation is working the agencies efficiently, and this is all any company can expect.
“We understand from Mr. Moseley that the monthly net profits being derived from the New Zealand section of the business alone at the present time, which have
shown a consistent increase since he transferred one of his men to New Zealand last April properly to organise that territory, are in excess of £5OO, and that every
month since this executive took charge New Zealand has shown an increase. Present N.Z. monthly sales are at the rate of better than £40,000 per annum.
“He estimates that New Zealand sales alone during 1929 should be in excess of £50,000, and that the Maytag sales should account for at least another £75,000 increase
in net sales over the previous year.
“The Maytag department is still only in its infancy, and is showing a consistent increase.
“Therefore, with £125,000 net sales emanating from a source from which only £l5OO of the £104,412 net sales for last year originated, net sales totalling £200,000 in
1929 should be a certainty. This means £lB,OOO net profits—a 10 per cent, dividend for preference shares, plus over 30 per cent, for ordinaries.
“We wish him the best of success. We believe that a considerable number of shares have already been applied foV. It is not often the investing public are offered
shares at par in a going concern which, without any increase in sales beyond the last year’s turnover, as certified by Messrs. Thomas Davis, Sheedy and Co., can,
with the additional capital being sought, simply through the saving in interest and other charges such capital would ensure, declare a dividend of 10 per cent, per
annum on the 25,000 preft rence shares, and 21 per cent, on the 43,000 ordinaries (including the vendor’s shares) to be issued.”
Alex. Jobson, in the “Sunday News,” says:—
“He should be able to make sufficient to pay dividends of 10 per cent.”
The “Investment Digest” says:—
“These shares should be a reasonably good investment.”
WORLD LEADERSHIP
The big Maytag factory is now turning out 1400 washers a day—as many as its five
nearest competitors.,
The Maytag is used by over one million housewives in America, and is sold throughout the
world—one in every three washers in use being a Maytag, even though there are 80 makes
of washing machines on the market.
*////—r ?T'
yiMO%.
rf/ ;•/ ////?»'////t VI/////////////'r l'//'"*'- ’■'••/■'•*////'■ y"*///////"'tif/i/Sts.
. m »////////Z//^^^
u,,..;/////'*
%yy/,"■"///.’),
'✓///
-'///// '/ *//'',
fif/.'*-'--""
MV
Some Reasons for Maytag Leadership
I—Washes Faster. 2—Washes Cleaner. 3 —Largest Hourly Capacity.
4—Most compact Washer made. s—Cast Aluminium heat-retaining, non-breakable Tub.
6 Legs easily adjusted -to your height.
7 Clothes taken out or put in while Washer is running.
® AU metal self-adjusting Wringer, equipped with the new safety feed roller water
remover, which prevents breaking of buttons.
9 —Operates by electric current or petrol engine.
Aluminum basket
’Phone M 2007 for a week’s washing free —no cost, no obligation.
If it doesn’t sell itself—Don’t keep it!
Telephone: M 2007.
SEND THIS COUPON
Please reserve me £1 Prefer-
ence shares, and £1
Ordinary shares in Moseley, Eureka Maytag,
Limited, for which I enclose '
being 2/6 per share Application Money, and
agree to pay 2/6 per share on Allotment, and
the balance in calls not exceeding 1/6 per share,
at intervals of not less than one month.
Signature
Date
Name in full
Address
Cheques to be forwarded to above address or
the Company's branch office, and to be made
payable to “Order" of Moseley, Eureka Maytag,
Limited, and crossed “Not Negotiable." Please
add exchange to country cheques. ' tB


“THE WILD ‘CAT’
MONTHLY”
The Great Australian
Guide to Money-making
In this period of Financial uncertainty
no Investor, Trustee or Business man can
afford to be without it.
DECEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock 4- GF -f- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Municipal Loans Negotiated. Geo. E. Dicken-
son, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant, Victoria Buildings,
Swanston Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Industrial progression is measured by efficiency,
low cost, quality, consistency and length of service.
In pipe installations Pioneer Wood Pipe spells pro-
gress on all these points. There is no fluid con-
veying job that can not be handled more efficiently,
economically and with a greater assurance of dura-
bility by Pioneer Wood Pipe. It will interest you
to have our illustrated book giving full information.
Let us send it to you. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns. Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.SAV.;
and at Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting r
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
'* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
insure: with the
11
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
16 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
Who Will Manage Your Estate?
At all times when an individual is appointed as Executor or Trustee
the uncertainty of human life is present. Who is better qualified to
administer your Estate than the
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
It cannot die, travel or disappear; has had over 40 years’ experience
in the management of all classes of Estates, and offers as security the
whole of its capital and assets —over £1,000,000.
Our Explanatory Booklet will be
sent to you Post Free on Request.
THOS. BUCKLAND P.
JAMES MOIR
J. W. Barnes, Manager.
DIRECTORS:
N. YARWOOD
(Chairman)
O. E. FRIEND
Lt.-Col. T. F. RUTLEDGE
E. V. T. Whittle, Asst. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
I
excess of 'labilities over more-or-less liquids
amounted to £59,660, or £26,455 more than
at the previous balance.
The market backs the management and
expresses_ its confidence in the future by
paying 355. for the pound shares; they could
be had at 30s. 12 months ago. After allowing
for the final dm the return at the current
price is only 5.3 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis.
Subject to the small amount of expenditure
capitalised during the year the backing
amounts to 225. sd. per share in net tan-
gibles, made up of freehold, plant, etc.,
25d. lid.; stocks, 2s. 9d.; book debts, 2s. 7d.;
shares, etc., 4d. The lot less Bs. 3d. liabili-
ties and lid. final div.
The New Mount Morgan Co., Ltd.
Nominal capital is £250,000 in £1 shares,
of which HO.OOO are offered, 10s. each appli-
cation and allotment. The vendors are to
take up 20,000 for cash, and get 25,000 in
l>aids in part payment for assets. Subject
to certain conditions these consideration
shares are not to be traded in for two years.
The remaining 95,000 shares are in pickle.
The idea is to take over the Queensland
assets of ilie Mount Morgan Gold Mining
Co., Ltd. (in liquidation) as from June 30,
1928, work the ore deposits and sell the
plant not required for future operations The
price is £145,000—£120,000 cash and the
balance in paids; thus the co. aims at a
working capital of £lO,OOO.
The assets include freeholds, mineral leases,
plant and equipment, a coalmine at Baralaba
and limestone quarries at Marmor. All these
stood in the old co.’s books at £638,457 at
June 30, 1927. The new co. puts the value
of plant and equipment at £169,220, includ-
ing stores; the stores are said to have
cost £95,525, but have been taken in at
£20,000. The power-house equipment, which
is obsolete, has been valued on a scrap basis
where it is considered no market exists.
Plant to the value of £150,000 is expected
to be sold within three years.
On the mining side chief activity will
be a leaching process and the precipitation
ot the copper content of the mine water.
This method, in which American experience
at Utah and elsewhere has been favorable,
has been in operation at the Mount in a
small way since Feb. last, the average copper
content being B.llb. per lOOOgals., and the
recovery 92 p.c. From the circulation of
500 gals, per minute a recovery of 14.55
tons copper per week is spoken of. Profits
from this source are put at £25,000 p.a. with
electrolytic at £72 per ton; it is now about
£75. In addition, there are about 250,000
tons tailings, expected to return £12,500 net
(Is. per ton) ; also there is 664,000 tons
ore partly developed and available for con-
centration, from which a net return of ss.
per ton is figured. On prospectus figures the
average profit from mining over the first 10
years is £42,850 p.a., equal to approximately
25 , p.c. on a paid capital of £155,000.
Since most of the work under the present
scheme will be mechanical, labor costs are
not expected to be troublesome. It was these
and labor troubles combined with the slump
in copper prices that finally broke the old
co.’s back. Since then prices have improved,
and it is possible that the new co. may
safely hurdle other handicaps. A. A. Boyd
and W. S. Jensen vouch for figures on the
mining side, and L. Ilinks, one of the direc-
tors, is responsible for plant estimates.
Others on the board are T. G. Murray,
M.L.C., and ,T. IT. Kenell. Two more are
to be appointed. The board may go to allot-
ment when not less than 75,000 shares have
been applied for. It is intended to list the
scrip.
Moseley, Eureka-Maytag. Ltd., is on the
market with 25,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs., which
have the right to a further 2 p.c. after the
ords. have had 10 p.c., and 25,000' ords. It
is taking over the Australian and Maoriland
agencies for the Eureka vacuum-cleanei’,
Maytag washing machines and other Ameri-
can lines. The Maytag contract has eight
years to run, and the Eureka three years,
with an option for a further five years. Mr,
Moseley, the vendor, assures the “Wild Cat”
that none of the cos. whose agencies are held
have branches outside the U.S.A. It is, lie
says, against their policy to open branches
in foreign territories. What their future
policy may be, of course, no one knows. The
business is reported to be making good pro-
gress, particularly in Maoriland.
* * * *
“Silver Lead”; Broken Hill Southern
Lode Continuation,, N.L., holds the country
south of the Barrier South, which adjoins
the Zinc Corp.’s South Blocks mine, and in-
cludes the old Rising Sun North, Rising
Sun and White Lead mines, with a total
length of about miles. At present work
is being concentrated on the Rising Sun.
The surface equipment is complete and well
housed. The shaft is vertical and timbered
to 620 ft. The recent work underground has
comprised keeping the mine unwatered —
about 40,000 gallons per day being raised
by electric pump and bailing tanks; in addi-
tion drives have been made at the 600 ft. level,
both south and north from the west crosscut.
This has been done on a well-defined crush line
with a steep westerly underlay, which has
every appearance of being the continuation
of the main Broken Hill Lode crush. The
south drive, 94ft. from the crosscut, has
been in footwall lode formation, showing
patches of good ore, and in the present face
quartz formation. The north drive, 185 ft.
from the crosscut, followed a well-defined
footwall crush, and has been in lode forma-
tion all the way, with patches of good gal-
ena ore. A winze was started at 181 ft. on
the good ore showing on the western side. This
winze is now 18ft. deep, and has been in
good ore all the way, with a flat underlay
and a northerly pitch. A trial hole was
bored west 6ft. deep from the bottom of the
winze, and the borings assayed 22 p.c. lead.
A typical lump of the good ore from the
winze assayed lead 5S p.c., zinc 7 p.c. and
silver lloz. per ton. The development in the
winze looks promising.
* * * *
“T.M.E.”: At Rosebery (Tas.) that
ancient landmark the Tasmanian Metals
Extraction plant has been demolished and
anything of value brought over to the site
of Electzinc’s new mill, about a mile away.
The old plant was elaborately laid out, and
is said to have cost £150,000 in the days
before arbitration. Unfortunately the Read-
Rosebery high-grade zinc-lead-iron sulphides
did not respond to the treatment process.
The ore, after crushing, was roasted in
Merton furnaces so as to convert the zinc sul-
phide into zinc oxide, and the sulphur gas
given off passed into a slurry of the roasted
ore and water. The zinc oxide was supposed
to go wholly into solution as zinc bilsulphite,
which was precipitated as sulphite by heating.
The sulphite, on roasting in a muffle fur-
nace, yielded white oxide. This was as
far as the co. could go at the time. After
three unsuccessful attempts to obtain satis-
factory recoveries, the end came. The
main reasons for the failure were that a five
per cent, sulphur gas is not very soluble in
water, that zinc sulphide and iron sulphide
when roasted together form considerable zinc
ferrite, which is insoluble in sulphurous acid,
and that considerable zinc was lost as sul-
phate.
* * * *
“Cuzenjan” : There is evidence that Moonta
may yet again become an important
copper-producing centre, especially if the
Americans can keep the price of the metal
at its present level. Diamond drilling
by the South Australian Government recently
located a body of high-grade sulphides 13ft.
wide at a depth of only 120 ft. This is not
a new lode, but an undeveloped oreshoot in
a lode channel worked to the north and
south. This discovery shows that it is along
the strike of known lodes that the best
chances lie. The lode fissures which occur
in the intrusive felspar porphyry are very
persistent, and longitudinal development has
not been as extensive as it should have been.
Broughton Edge’s electrical prospecting
party might clear the air on this point.
* * * *
The Wild Dog property near the old
Yelta mine (S.A.) has been producing high-
grade copper ore since 1917, and now finds
itself badly in need of development. The
bottom level is only 355 ft. from the surface,
and, if the history of the other lodes in the
district can be applied, better ore than that
taken out in the upper levels should be below.
The co. has 6000 tons of 4 per cent, sulphide
ore at grass with no plant available to con-
centrate it.
.A mile or so south of the Wild Dog, a
tribute party has been removing high-grade
ore from a shaft pillar around Taylor’s shaft,
the main shaft of the old company. Over
500 tons of 33 per cent, copper ore has
been taken out and despatched abroad. There
are other pillars available in the upper levels,
but these may not prove to be so remunera-
tive. Water, which is filling the workings
at a rate of 3ft. per week, may stop opera-
tions.
* * * *
The Moonta Conner Recovery Co., which
bought the jig tailing dumps at Moonta, is
again preparing for business after a six
months’ spell. These dumps total 2 \ million
tons and have yielded 35,500 tons of copper
since leaching first began many years ago.
In addition the company has 400.000 tons
of slime averaging 0.9 per cent, copper. At
Wallaroo Mines 180,000 tons of 2.5 per cent,
unoxidised Wilfly Table and buddle slimes
are available.
* * * Sjs
“Platman”: That £here is some rich ore
in N.Q. is undoubted, but costs are the
trouble. Recently a parcel of just under
11 tons of silver-lead stone from the Victory,
about 10 miles from Georgetown, returned
8.116 tons lead and 12oz. silver. At recent
prices the metal was worth £165. By the
time the owners paid railage, shipping, cart-
ing, smelting and so forth they had £4l. left
to pay for mining, bags and bagging and
transport to Georgetown. So it cost over
£ll per ton to treat the ore.
* * * *
Dr. MacLaren, who lately looked round
the Kalgoorlie mines, spoke thus: “Recent
criticism of Golden Mile mining practice has
been distinctly unfair. The critics have been
in the position of being wise after the event.
Golden Mile cos. have never been able to see
far enough ahead to be able to plan their
work on the big scale of the South African
mines. Ivalgoorlie had been blamed for its
small shafts, but in the early stages it was
not expected that the gold-carriers would
live to thousands of feet, and when later
on the question of enlarging the main haul-
ing stations was considered, the ore re-
serves did not justify the very heavy expendi-
ture that would be involved. In 1910 a co.
was on the point of enlarging its main shaft
in order to reduce working costs, *but care-
ful investigation made it clear that the
expenditure was not justified. The same
consideration probably applied to the ques-
tion of reorganising treatment plants at the
present time.” On the other hand, Kingsley
Thomas, Kalgoorlie’s chief critic, found,
amongst other things, lack of attention to
detail, lack of control, inability to grapple
effectually with problems as they arose and
a tendency to live on the glories of the
past. The mineowners content themselves
with a general denial of his allegations.
* * * *
Associated Northern Co. (W.A.) is deeply
concerned regarding its future. Almost ail
the payable ore in sight in its Ivalgoorlie
mine has been extracted, and blind stabbing
at depth is considered too uncertain to war-
rant the cost of the job. The co. is sticking
to its Wiluna share interest, but intends
to abandon operations at Ora Banda and
get rid of the plant and other effects. The
14,000 tons of ore awaiting treatment there is
expected to show a profit of about £7OOO.
Accounts submitted in London last month
show that liquid assets were more than suffi-
cient to pay shareholders 20s. in the pound.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie has decided to pass round the
hat in order to raise capital for alluvial pros-
pering. The State Government has promised
a subsidy and has reserved a large area near
the Golden Mile, which is reckoned to con-
tain deep leads, and. perhaps, payable lodes.
High hopes are entertained of success, or
at any rate something to hallelujah about.
* # * *
Golden Butterfly (W.A.) recently reported
stuff worth nearly lOoz. per ton. Something
is also said about the reef getting bigger.
Nothing, however, is mentioned about the
rock that isn’t worth anything, or what aver-
age values are. But the market seems to
have a fair idea of the position.
* * * >f.
C. E. Prior, lately of Mexico, Nevada and
other parts, has arrived in the West to take
charge of Wiluna Goldmines. He is a
young man with Considerable experience in
gold and silver mining.
* * * He
Both the Rawang plants worked harder
last month, but averages were not so good.
The dredge turned over 130,000 yards as
against 120,000 in October, but got the same
quantity of tin—3o tons; thus the November
average dropped to ,501 b. The sluicing plant
slipped also, only 20 tons coming from 55,000
yards. The average was .811 b. ; October’s
was 1.671 b. Costs were 3.87 d. per yard for
the dredge and 11.19 d. for the sluicing plant.
Kundang got 43 tons from 140,000 yards;
average .681 b. as against ,581 b. for October,
when .26 tons were recovered. Costs last
month were 4.2 d. Kampar Tin Fields gath-
ered only 143 tons from 585,000 yards, aver-
aging .541 b. Costs were 3.44 d. In October
150 tons came to hand for an average of
.641 b. Changkat /was another that slipped
from grace, 118,000 yards producing 50 tons
t. 0., with the low average for this mine of
.941 b. Costs were 6.4 d. The previous month,
when 55 tons were won, the average was
1.271 b.
* * * *
Ratrut Basin, which struck trouble with
bouldery clay in its new Sichon property,
turned over 22,000 yards for November in
390 hours —about half-time. Ten tons of
t.o. valued at £l4OO net was recovered. Boul-
ders are still frequent, but the ground is
inclined to be easier. It is stated that the
bores ahead of the dredge gave no indica-
tions of large boulders, nor did several open
cuts on the property. The present dredge,
which was re-erected after removal from
Renong, has buckets of 4 c.f. capacity only.
These could not handle big boulders. The
new dredge, which should be at work in
January, has buckets of 10 c.f. capacity, and
is of much greater power than the present
plant.
, * * * *
Latest reports from Tinsongkhla indicate
that the unexpected stiff clay formation met
with is still troubling the management, and
that there is urgent need of a permanent
water supply. The dredge is approaching
freer ground ; when this is reached it is hoped
the position will improve. In spite of han-
dicaps, 13.95 tons of t.o. were recovered in
November, though the yardage is not given.
* * * *
Kundang and Jelapang, both of whom
failed to live tip to expectations in their
earlier stages, have each declared a dividend
of 6d. per share, payable December 22.
During the past 12 months both have shown
.a steady increase in output and values, and
may be welcomed as permanent additions to
the dividend list.
* * * *
Out of the ashes of Pliin Soon New Phin
Soon has arisen with a capital of £52,500
in 175,000 shares of 6s. each. The original
proposal was a capital of £175,000 in shares
of £1 each paid up to 14s. On behalf of
Malayan creditors, the liquidator of the old
co. has accepted £24,500 for the assets, this
being a reduction of £12,000 on the esti-
mated liabilities.
* * * *
St. Aignan Gold Lode has a capital of
£20,000 in 160,000 shares of 2s. 6d. each.
Vendor and promoters get 40,000 and 18,000
paids respectively. There are 80,000 con-
tribs at 3d. a. nibble, and 22,000 shares are
in reserve. The co. has acquired from
J. A. Alexander a 25-acre lease on the island
of St. Aignan, better known by its native
name of Misima, and proposes to work a
reefing proposition said to exist there. St.
Aignan was the scene of the first New
Guinea gold rush in the early eighties of
last century, and a dozen different cos. have
worked reefing shows there with varying suc-
cess. Still, the island is heavily wooded,
and it is not impossible that there may be
an unlocated reef or two awaiting discovery.


"A
Counter
6« 6
m
m
5*5
Office
Si
a
9).
Gi
mi
a
<2>
U
Si
ZL
U
s-i
ei
u
51
Desk
51
41
IV
w
u
51
51
11
U
fIH
51
u
u
m
/
Factory
A few pence
a day—
and you can have
Accuracy &. Economy
in your office for all time
The Modern Business cannot afford mental figuring.
Reckon up the cost of time and labor spent in figuring
in your office yearly, and you will find that it is many
times the price of a Burroughs Portable.
Burroughs Portable Adding Machines are made in sizes
and styles to suit every kind of business—-from the
smallest storekeeper to the larger offices and institutions.
They are made with eight or ten columns adding capacity,
wide or narrow carriage, and with a direct subtracting
device, if it is so desired. Put one to work in your office
to-day for a short trial with no obligation to yourself.
Sole Distributors:
Bur r ought s
Portables
are priced
from
£32/10/-
for twelve
months’ terms
(Discount for
cash).
IRA L.
CHALLIS
& A. C. BERK LTD
HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
FL 2671 (5 Lines.)
Sydney
Melbourne
Adelaide
Brisbane
Hobart
Perth
Newcastle
Rockhampton
Auckland
Dunedin
Christchurch
IVellinqtoi
Bookkeeping
Calculating
Machines


a
a
CD
CD'
"s
Ifj
.
V
iifii
W
ig
Hi
IfU
SrET
&
3**
U**
GIVE HER A REAL THRILL THIS XMAS!
SOMETHING different, something really useful and worth-while—you are
searching for that kind of Christmas Gift, and here it is—Frigidaire. For
the woman who is faced with the problem of providing dainty, appetising
menus through the heat of summer, Frigidaire stands alone in the real help it
affords. You can reckon its value as a Christmas gift in a life-time’s freedom
from culinary worries. Assuredly, this will be the most practical—the most
welcome gift!
Frigidaire is permanent , electric refrigeration. It keeps foods fresher, colder, longer,
in a frigid temperature well below 45 degrees—the critical point above which
bacteria multiply rapidly. Its cold is crisp and dry, and it is always unaffected
by outside heat. And then again—Frigidaire makes its own supplies of ice in
sparkling cubes—ice that you know to be pure.
<£>
In homes that are removed from electricity supplies, the
convenience of Frigidaire is made possible with Delco-Light
—the dependable, self-contained electric lighting and power
plant. Many years of laboratory investigation and world-
wide service are behind Frigidaire and Delco-Light. Inspect
in our Showrooms, or secure free literature. Fill in your
name and address below, and post this advertisement to us.
See the NEW Frigidaire—
More Beauty— More Power— More Silence.
NAME
ADDRESS * • ;
DISTRIBUTORS:
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 307-15 Kent Street, Sydney.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
STEWART & MACLEAN PTY., LTD., 104 George Street, Launceston.
Product of General Motors.
m
19911991111991111111V111
r
w
n
iimiiiimiiii
H f
V
50
ifiiiiiniinmiiiiitii
pa
r
IfNIII
a
pi
pa
1999199199991111
>
A
H
9911999111911991
O
z


ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up—Beautiful
lighting effects —A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Cafe de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines').
(Also under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
'
T he purest tobacco only,
Wrapped in snow-white
paper without any trimmings
has made ((C Che Qreys” the
best Virginia Cigarette.
It’s the Tobacco that matters
GREYS
io for gd. CIGARETTES so for 1/6
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO. Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Ltd. [NSG9
Build With
WUNDERLICH
Materials
Guard against faulty work
obtain the highest value by in-
sisting on Wunderlich Building
Materials, which include: —
Art Metal Ceilings. Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(Durabestos) Building Sheets.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
_
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
SAFETY FIRST.
SWAGGIE: “Why did you leave your old camp at Warrigal Flat, Flourbag?"
FLOURBAG (who has heard talk about the district ): “I bin get frightened an’ clear out.
Ebberything failin’ in hands of plurry banks up that way.
“Wrash”: Travelling by train along the
Bombala line in 1923, I saw swarms of rab-
bits startled away by the noise of the train
along the whole length, from daybreak at
Bungendore to the journey’s end, 123
miles farther on, at noon. Rabbit buyers
were busily engaged at every station and
siding en route, and rabbit-freezing establish-
ment! flourished at Bungendore Cooma,
Nimmitabel and Bombala. Re ce nt Jy - 1 Ra-
velled the same line again. At nob KO3
I saw a rabbit-kitten duck under a culvert,
and at liock Flat I saw two bunnies squat
in the grass as we passed. No buyers
appeared at any of the stations, and all the
freezing wrnrks were closed and silent. The
residents of the plateau now laugh at their
former fears of the rabbit menace TV ire-net-
ting tlie runs and digging out has cleared
the areas, and made the country secure
against further inroads.
* * * *
“Momokeni”: “Bantu” is in error in his
statement (B. 14/11/’2B) that the most win-
some Ilanuabada damsels were taken on the
lakatoi trips until the missions urged the
Government to stop the
practice. This was unne-
cessary, because the dam-
sels never went. Cer-
tainly. the girls are on
board the lakatois when
they set out on the hiri,
but only for the cere-
monial dance. The girls
are never taken more
than a mile or two from
their homes, and when
their dance is over they
return. It is doubtful if
a dozen Motu women
have ever been to the
Purari Delta or even
beyond Elema, and cer-
tainly never on a lakatoi.
Some years ago the hiri
was discontinued, the
natives preferring to use
their cutters rather than
clumsy craft which could
only sail with a following wind, and it was
at Government request that the picturesque
custom was revived.
Ms * * *
“Angus”: We have three cats that sleep
in a woodheap behind a hut. Last week
they were surprised by a 5-foot brown snake,
which they attacked and killed. After the
battle the tomcat made for the dam near by
dived in and remained in the water until
evening. For a couple of days afterwards he
could not eat; his jaws seemed to be locked
He is back in the woodheap now, and but
for looking a bit thin seems none the worse
for his encounter. Can it be that immersion
in water is a cure for snakebite?
:|; * * *
“TJramao”: The grey matter in Henare’s
skull moves sluggishly when under cross-
examination in court. The matter of the
number of times he has been married often
seems to involve difficult mental calculations.
The other day in a Taranaki town a Maori
could not remember exactly the number of
wives he had had in his tempestuous voyage
over matrimonial waters. First it was five,
then he confessed to four, then three. Coun-
sel, however, wanted something definite, and
Henri said the correct number was four —of
course that did not include the white one.
He wondered why the Court laughed.
* * * *
“Hayband”: The punter was spouting
“form” : the bushman was eyeing the horses.
Suddenly he stood still. “There’s a good
sort of a horse; got speed about him and
trained to the last second in the minute. ’
FRACTIONS.
MARRIED MAN (getting off home): “You should marry, man; you can’t imagine what
a comfort our better halves are."
HIS BACHELOR FRIEND: “No, perhaps not. But I notice we bachelors mostly have better
quarters!”
Tlie Sydneysider remonstrated. "I dont
care,” said the man from the timber, “ties
the best-looking horse in the race and he
hasn’t been turned out like 'that tor tup.
He took two pounds’ worth of 10 to 1. in
the race his fancy showed out like a grey-
hound among cattle-dogs. Form at a glance.
*** * *
“Lizzie Dimmitt”: I had a remarkable
experience with a white Leghorn lien a few
years back. Martha had an infallible beak
for a fresh egg. She developed the
gift quite early. A pet of the kids,
she was as often in the kitchen as
in the fowl-house. When her first
egg was laid she excitedly followed
the henfruit in the hands of excited
kids, flew on to the stove and, with
glowing eye, watched her product
cooking. The three kids divided
that egg with great fairness be-
tween themselves and Martha, who
thereafter breakfasted on a modi-
cum of egg. When eggs became
scarce in the moulting season
Martha’s modicum wasn’t always
from a new-laid source.
It took us quite a while
to grasp her disdain for
egg breakfast one day and
her avidity for it another.
I declared one day, as a
joke, that Martha knew
the age of the eggs. My
offspring at once set
about testing the state-
ment. It was amazing
to watch thar hen walk
about among the eggs on
the floor, placing her beak
on each one. From a
dozen she rolled out three
and stared up at us,
clucking softly. We
cooked one and she ate
every bit of it. To further
test her we bought some
shop eggs. She put her
beak to every one, walked
with stately tread out of
the kitchen down to the
fowl-house, worked out a
new-laid egg from under
another hen and stood
over it clucking gravely.
It wasn’t long before we trained her to grade
eggs—fresh, fresher, freshest. We never
knew her to fail.
* * * *
“Paul C.” : A neighbor of mine was search-
ing for hens’ nests, and in pawing about
among some vines was seized by something.
His sudden jerk brought a serpent out of
the vines. He killed it, and then raced
home, then through the house, and back
through it again he tore calling loudly on his
family to go for the doctor and the parson.
Then he sprinted to the woodheap. Two
seconds later Ms index finger lay on the
chips and he was galloping through the
house again with his finger-stump spurting
blood like a garden hose. For years after on
the mantel above the front room fireplace
lie proudly displayed his finger in one bottle,
and the snake that bit it in another, pre-
served in spirits. He showed them to me
one day, and, thoughtlessly, instead of com-
plimenting him on his pluck and presence of
mind. I sought to air my knowledge of snakes
by informing him that he had deprived him-
self of a good finger without any necessity,
as the green snake in the bottle wouldn’t have
done him any more harm than a bull-ant. We
don’t speak now.
* * *
“H. I-lardupp” : The other day I was intro-
duced to a beer-drinking cat. It is a stray,
and a villainous-looking stray _at that—a
veritable beer-bum of the cat tribe ; but its
treatment of a beer-bottle shows cunning as
well as a passion for liquor. It upsets the
bottle, and then, tilting the neck downwards
by pressure of its paw so that any liquor
i aside will run out, laps up the few drops the
bottle may hold. Apparently it has good
luck upon occasion. One night lately, with
its fur ruffled and a lurch in its gait, it
staggered along the street, leaning occa-
sionally against posts, growling and swear-
ing in a way that suggested visions of pink
rats with purple eyes.
* * *
“Walby Trackman”: At Chillagoe (Q.)»
when the A.W.A. was the controlling body
and Theodore, as secretary, controlled the
A.W.A., the smelter-hands asked for another
shilling a day with a strike as alternative.
One of the storekeepers, on the day of the
conference with the employers, told his
assistant to fill the delivery orders, but to
hold them back and not to invoice prices.
Followed an anxious wait, the storekeeper
fiddling about near the ’phone. About three
o’clock he called to the shopman: It s all
right, Mac.: butter’s gone up Id. a lb. and
block cake 3d.” The rise had been conceded.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ess”: A traveller on a thousand-mile
jaunt across the Backblocks drinks a surpris-
ing mixture of waters, good, bad and in-
different, variously mineralised and ranging
in color from lime-white to black, yet
rarely suffers internal disorders. Tanks and
dams generally taste of sheep or cattle;
swamps and lagoons have a weedy flavor
and the smell of a wet duck. Gilgai holes
are nearly always clear, except for water
beetles, spiders and tadpoles; but many
small* reservoirs are green with scum and
thick with insects. For these the careful
traveller carries a piece of muslin or hes-
sian to drink through, while the casual per-
son drops a bunch of soft grass on tne
water and takes his dose through that. Any-
thing wet goes down on a thirsty track, and
the Ford only knows what does go down in
some places.
(Continued on page 25.1
DOWN AND OUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The world ain’t got no place fer me, I'm
useless, old an’ worn;
A beast too sick fer any job, I’ll never earn
me corn.
The parson sez in ’is sweet way that orl
that is is right. ,
I wonder ’ow ’e’d look at things if e d no
bed to-night?
Down an ’ out an’ lonely,
No ’onie an’ friends.
Waitin', waitin' only
Till trouble ends.
I’ve turned me ’and to everything a’ “un-
skilled” cove can do,
An’ wasted orl I ever earned, an’ now I
know I’m through.
Me ole man did the same before, an dragged
us down with ’im.
We’re vaggin’ over ’arf the world—an’ Pent-
ridge ’arbors Jim.
Wot chances did I ever ’ave? But I ain’t
blamin’ none,
Fer I can say I’ve lived me, life, an’ ad me
bit o’ fun.
Per’aps I’ve drunk more than wuz good, fer
breedin’s bound to tell,
No matter wot I’ve made my life I’ve made
no other’s ’ell.
Most dawgs can find a place at night an’
bones to chew be day,
But w’en I try to bot a feed the John unts
me away. ,
The world is shod with number nines, an
I’m beneath its feet,
A tex’ fer sermons parsons -spin, down-
earthed an’ dead beat,
Down an' kicked an' lonely.
Cold, sick an' worn,
Wond’rin’, wond’rin’ only
Why wuz I born?
VICTORIA.
P. T. F.


rD
coo”
*i&i
; V
mix
.
i
' i ?*■ ?
I <
>sW:
„.*& w
5% >
r®
%m.
i <,
'% ''
©
w»
Sf*
©
$«&«* I
«
s§s-M
% N
Si®
De Soto Six product o£ the engineering,
research and manufacturing skill of Chrysler
touches new peaks of style and beauty gives
new measure of quality and performance.
De Soto Six the most talked of, the most
enthusiastically awaited car in automobile
history embodies qualities of beauty, style,
luxury, long life and value which have not yet
appeared from any other manufacturing source.
De Soto Six is possible to-day only because of
the vast strides which Chrysler engineering and
manufacturing science have made within the
past twelve months.
De Soto Six an extraordinary car v/hich will
confirm in every respect the natural enthusiasm
of its builders soon to be on display through-
out Australia.
De Soto Six Walter P. Chrysler assures you
that you will find in this great new car perform-
ance and beauty not approached by any other
popular priced Six.
DE SOTO SIX DISTRIBUTORS WILL BE ADVERTISED SHORTLY
De Soto Motor Corporation (Division of Chrysler Corporation) , Detroit, Michigan.
DE SOTO SIX


VIOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting- Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadlields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and 1
Foundries J
Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch
Office
1 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
j T. & G, Building, Brisbane, Q.
A WONDERFUL BODY BUILDER
gdf
MY ADVICE
TO YOU t
TAKE
A 3
RELIEVES
EXHAUSTION
TRADE MARK.'
REGISTERED
BUILDS UP
THE SYSTEM
H
TONIC WINE
AFTER ILLNESS.
Obtainable everywhere throughout Australia—
CHEMISTS, LICENSED GROCERS, HOTELS, etc.
Suppliers for N.S.W. and Q’land: McLaughlin & Co., Ltd., Corner Sussex and Hay Streets, Sydney.
. „ West Australia Distillers Agency, Ltd., Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
. I Irvine & McEachern, Brisbane Street, Launceston.
„ „ Tasmania | Ferguson & Co., Murray Street, Hobart.
Sole Proprietors: ARNOLD BROS., A.B. Building, 527-529 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
ENOUGH TO MAKE ANY MARY LAUGH.
“You catchem plenty big-feller laugh, Mary—whaffor?”
“Py cripe, Warrigal, you makem Mary laugh. You bin have indiges’an an’ you bin
callit pain long a bingy.”
“Cuchulain” : Prickly-pear is rightly
dubbed an “air plant.’’ One often passes
a stray plant uprooted and hung on a fence
by a careless cocky; it withers, but lives
on A Roma (Q.) squatter has made a
pretty fair test of this ability of the pear
to survive on air through all adversity. He
rooted up a sturdy plant seven, years ago
and tossed it on to the iron roof-covering
of his calfpen. There it has stayed and lived.
Of a deflated, withered and yellow appear-
ance, it always contrives to send out fresh,
green shoots whenever there is rain, and
that is a scarce commodity in these days.
* * * *
“Sucre” : Talking of floating islands, “Wan-
chai” (B 14/11/’2B) mentions the Snowy
River Flats at Bete Bolong (Vic.). These
aren’t the only ones in Australia. The Clar-
ence, Tweed and other rivers of northern
N.S.W. have several on their brown bosoms.
Huge masses of hyacinth growing on mats
of hair interlaced with sticks and soil move
about the waterways with the regularity
of a John Hop on his beat, and constitute
a serious danger to river steamers
* * * *
“Salambo” : One of the queerest fish seen
in Maoriland waters was hooked by a Maori
at Opotoki recently. It is 2ft. long, weighs
51b., and has three distinct mouths, each with
its set of teeth. Two mouths are nearer
the tail end than the head. It has six fins
and two breathing holes, one on top of its
head, the other under the body. It has a
small sword at the snout, and its tail is
shark-like. It now reposes in the Auckland
Museum.
* * * *
“Ess”: A wily old smooger was Jimmy
Ilarrin, who kept a tanglefoot house in
Mulgatown. A prying person observed him
one day take a traveller’s horse and give it
a bucket of corn and chaff, patting it and
caressing it as if he loved nothing so much
as dumb animals. “There,’’ he said, with an
ingratiating smile to the newcomer, “that
will hearten the old moke, so it will. I do
like to see the poor beasts have a good
tuck in.” He hurried the visitor into the
house, talking amiably of the grand district
he lived in ; but presently he returned alone
in a greater hurry and dived back into the
stable. “Get out of it, you hungry beast!”
he said to the horse. “You germin’ croco-
dile, you’d eat a man out of his home, so
you would !” Then he scooped the feed back
into the bucket and locked it up for the
next traveller.
* * * *
“Kooragai”: Australia’s greatest foe of
grasshoppers and caterpillars is the straw-
necked ibis. It seems to sense the _ insect
plagues from afar, and pursues them in bat-
talions, flying in Y-shaped formation with
an appointed leader, like the swans. Alight-
ing, at the rear of the pestiferous army they
string out and advance, side by side, with
a long front like a line of soldiers. After
gobbling all they can hold they cluster in
trees, where they perch for hours, and then
line up for another feast. In the days of
old Tutankhamen the ibis was religiously
protected by the Egyptians as the best de-
fender against the plagues of invading locusts
(practically identical with our migratory
grasshopper), and it wouldn’t be a bad idea
to take a leaf out of Tut’s book.
“Gouger” : The honey-eaters are flocking to
the Moreton Bay chestnuts, but alas! missing
i s Binghi from the mecca of the Bunya pine,
The fruit comes in quantity every three
years, and once its arriv.al was the signal
for great assemblages of aboriginals. Months
beforehand messengers were despatched, not
only inland, but by canoe to island tribes.
Visitors came from hundreds of miles away.
All quarrels were forgotten, and each tribe
arrived in holiday mood. At some of the
camps a thousand natives would congregate.
OUTCLASSED.
CAP'N T REGENZA: “What’s ta complainin’ ’bout? Damme, to ’ear ’ee growl wouldst
think ground was hurd as ’obs o’ ’Ell!”
JABEZ TREMEARNE ( contractor ): “ ’Obs o’ ’Ell! Why, they'm only pickin' ground
’longside ours.”
The Moreton Bay abos. owned the trees, each
family falling heir to a group. It was
etiquette that the family man should first
climb each of his trees, the trunks of which
towered straight and bare for perhaps 80
feet before branching. The climb was man-
aged by help of a cane looped around the
tree and the climber’s back, he clinging with
his toes and hanging well back, jerking the
cane upwards after each long step. No
notches were cut in the trees, as they were
venerated. A little ceremony was gone
through, the climber tapping the first cone
while aloft. If he didn’t do that the fruit
would be barren. As the cones were knocked
down they were gathered by the busy crowds
below, smashed, and the nuts collected and
roasted. The season sometimes lasted for
two months. At nights the abos. massed
around the camp-fires and swapped corrobo-
rees on a universal scale, acting, singing and
dancing the time away. But at the break-up
of the camps old feuds were remembered, and
sometimes as many as 500 warriors would
take part in a fight. The slain were eaten,
Now the pines sigh alone, for Binghi comes
no more.
* * * *
“Emcon”: Before getting up from break-
fast I had noticed Archibald the cook re-
move the lid from the billy, peer intently
at the contents, and, instead of tossing the
lialf-pint or so of tea-leaves and liquid away,
place it carefully near the fire. He wasn’t
fond of exertion and the Murray was a good
200 yards away. I arrived back at camp
with a pretty" decent appetite. Settling
down with a mug in one hand and a lump
of damper in the other, I raised the
pastry chin high and sighted a soggy brown
mass in its interior. “Hey Arch,” I bellowed,
“What’s the strong of this damper?”
“Damper be damned,” said Archibald indig-
nantly • “that’s a tea cake!”
* * -4= *
“Bad Australian”: In parts of our coastal
areas where the .lyre-bird was once to be
found in hundreds he is now nothing but a
memory, and where he still survives it is in
sadly-diminished numbers. About 25 years
ago “Superbus” was to be found in every
gully on the upper watershed of the Buffalo,
Rose, King, Howqua and Broken rivers,
Vic., but on a recent five-days’ trip through
that country I heard only three birds. Under
the most favorable conditions the lyre-bird
increases very slowly. I have examined many
nests, but I never found more than one egg
or a solitary chick in any of them. The
nest is generally built on top of a stump or
at the base of the fronds of a tree-fern,
usually within a few feet of the ground. The
young birds are very slow and clumsy when
they first leave the nest, and the old ones
are very little better on the wing than a
barndoor fowl, although they are exception-
ally fast runners. In these circumstances it
is not surprising that since the fox has pene-
trated to his haunts the lyre-bird is fast dis-
appearing ; and unless he learns to depend
more on his wings and less on his ungainly
legs, nests higher and keeps the young one
in the nest until it is capable of sustained
flight he will be listed soon with the moa and
the dodo.
* * * *
“Mullarula” : That yarn about children in
out-back Q'land who have reached the age of
six without having seen rain has been told
about out-back N.S.W. also, and I see no
reason for believing it. I don’t think there is
any weather station in either State which
has ever recorded a rainfall of nil for the year,
and even if there was I would still dis-
believe the yarn. A feature of our drought
periods is the frequency of “dry” thunder-
storms, each of which yields a sprinkle of
quite-visible raindrops, though not enough to
damp the bottom of the rain-gauge. Other
countries have similar fictions, for I was told
once that rain occurred only every fourth
year in the Sinai Desert. The first night
I crossed it, in an open truck, I got wet to
the skin.
* * ❖ *
“Boronia” : In the mulga country of West-
ralia there grows what is commonly known
as the water-tree. In appearance it resembles
a mulga, only the leaves are larger and
greener. When its roots are broken up into
short lengths the water which drains out
is cool and tasteless. This tree has saved
the lives of men who have been bushed.
Another tree which stores up a supply of
water is the paperbark of the south-west.
When the large bulges on the trunk are
tapped with an axe anything up to a gallon
gushes out. But as these vegetables grow in
swampy country their water-storing quali-
ties are of no value.
“Taveta” : Some members of the Queens-
land ti-tree (Melaleuca) family may be
added to the list of water conserves. The
trees with a good big bulge or knob on the
trunk are the ones to tap. A gash with the
axe on the lower part of the knob will let
out the liquid, which may be discolored, but
is generally fit for use without boiling.
THE LAST MUSTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The meji were riding listlessly behind the
moving mob, .
A sense of loss impending held them all;
The wind across the ridges in faint gusts
appeared to sob,
And far away the cattle seemed to call;
For most things on the station that stood
high in their regards
Were passing with the setting of the sun;
With stragglers they were heading for the
Wooroowoolgen yards,
The last that they would muster on the
run.
Old stockmen who had known it when they
first began to ride,
And oft had viewed the clash of warring
spears;
Had seen the pastures dwindle and the bush
stripped of its pride,
The roaming myalls vanish with the years;
They’d seen selectors’ fences stx-ing across
the cattle camps,
Where often they had galloped to and fro,
And over hills and gullies and across the
reedy swamps,
Where nothing used to block them long ago.
With every strip cut off it, and with every
mile of wire,
The veterans of the stockwhip felt a pang,
For ranging over broad domains was dear
to son and sire,
And sweet the forest glory and its tang.
’Twas cheery ’mong the wildings of the
furred and feathered kind
That vanished from the stockmen’s nar-
rowed range,
With all the olden splendor that the years
had cast behind,
And left the hills and valleys bare and
strange.
Wild cattle in the bramble and the brumbies
in the hills
Had led them oft a swift and stirring-
chase.
When scrubby gorge and shingle took a toll
in sudden spills;
But little recked the riders in the race. <
They’d bustled in the dawning in the noisy
branding-yard.
With blazing logs to light them by the
rails;
They’d backed the station outlaws when the
days were long and hard,
And ever they were eager on the trails.
A thousand times they’d mustered, and the
hardest was the last;
The straggler mob the saddest company
Of all the herds they’d numbered from the
far romantic past
And branded with the famous “Diamond
D”;
For now their haunts were broken into little
bits of farms,
Their scented groves and valleys cut and
cleared;
And with the winding river stripped of all
its olden charms
The cattle-run they knew had disappeared.
n.s.w.
E. S. SORENSON.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
‘ Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible:
Sawmiller. competent manage bush or city
sawmill, seeks engagement anywhere.—7835.
Capable cook-housekeeper wants position,
own mistress preferred (Mrs. Tyers, c/o A.
It. Stafford, Dobikin, Bellata, N.S.W.) —
7839.
Man, experienced accountancy, books,
stores, etc.; licensed car driver; handy tools;
knowledge gardening. Wife trained nurse,
experienced handling staff, housekeeping,
cooking, etc. Both returned soldiers. Desire
position in country.—7842.
Ex-Scotland Yard detective-inspector seeks
position as inquiry officer, Melbourne. Re-
turned soldier, 40 years’ special experience
tracing leakages.—7847.
Highly-certificated teacher of applied art
in large Sydney school would give private
lessons during summer vacations, city or
country.—7881.
Naturalist, artist or writer to share cot-
tage, Kangaroo Island (S.A.), summer
months. Fares and incidental expenses paid.
—7844.
By Sydney man, tutor, capable coaching
thoroughly in French, spoken and written.
■ —7785.
Gardener, experienced vegetables, flowers,
lawns, seeks position guest-house or as
chauffeur-gardener, licensed driver. —7793.
Ironmonger, 27 years, seeks change, 4
years present position ; good refs. Wimmera
or Western Victoria preferred.—7820.
Man (28) wants job as under-gardener or
with nurseryman; anxious learn, willing
worker. (To T. Aldrick, 17 Athol-street,
Prahran.)
Young Englishman wants job, seven years’
sheet-metal work in England; two years’
poultry farming in Australia; single, reli-
able, go anywhere.—7807.
By competent young woman, position in
Sydney as proof-reader. Long experience
daily paper.—7801.
By returned soldier (31), single, position
as clerk. Islands or nothern station.—7797.
Engineer’s fitter, married, wants job ; holds
first-class enginedriver’s certificate N.S.W.
and Queensland. —7896.
■ Melbourne girl, good family and creden-
tials, desires position as companion, secretary
to lady or private secretary; N.S.W. pre-
ferred. —7895.
Lady wants one or two paying guests, or
will accommodate regular visitors to Mel-
bourne, close to city.—7883.
Two brothers want farm work, clearing or
general work, out west (N.S.W.) preferred.
—7803.
N.Z. boy wishes exchange N.Z. stamps with
boys in Australia and Pacific Islands; 100
for 100. (To E. Wilson, Bulls, Rangitikei.)
To buy Gibbons’s “Catalogue of Stamps
of British Empire,” not later than 1926
edition.—7821.
To buy second-hand copy of Johns’s
‘ Who’s Who in Australia,” any issue last
five years.—7885.
Words of “The Stockman’s Last Ride” and
“He Was Only a Pony, but He Wasn’t a
Weed.” (To D. J. Sparke, Scrumlo, Single-
ton, N.S.W.)
Words of “When Father Rode the Goat,”
also “Murphy Shall Not Sing To-night.”—
7836.
Words of verses with the line “When You
Were a Tadpole and I Was a Fish.”—7811.
Whereabouts of Bill Parker, late R.A.N.,
last. heard of on Darling River (N.S.W.)
station. (To R. V. Wallace, assistant engi-
neer, pumping station, Cooma, N.S.W.)
Whereabouts of Henry Daniel Roberts,
last heard of Melbourne, Oct., 1927. (To H.
F. Roberts, 104 Beauley-road, Southville,
Bristol, Eng.)
Whereabouts of Charlie Sweeney, last
heard Sydney. (To S. Pard, Yarramemba,
Wyandra, S.-W. Q’land.)
Whereabouts of Alfred Ward, late of Chil-
li am, Kent. S.M. in English Army. Sister
Lydia inquires.—7828.
Information Sought.
When a storekeeper assigns his estate can
customers icho oive him money he compelled
to nay? —7898.
Yes.
Method of removing a scorch stain from
a white fuji silk dress? —7897.
Mix a teaspoonful of tartaric acid with one
of salt, and wet with a tablespoonful of water.
With the mixture saturate the scorch and
place the dress on a hanger in the draught.
Or cover the scorch with a mixture of lemon,
salt and starch, and put in the sun. If the
scorch is very bad, try a half-strength solu-
tion of muriatic acid, but as this has a
decided tendency to rot the material, as soon
as the scorch has been renwved rinse thor-
oughly in cold water.
In the case of two power-transmission
belts 14 in. wide, compounded, what is the
best belt-fastener to use for the belt run-
ning on the pulleys? —7767.
First, it is most unusual to run com-
pounded two belts of the same width. But
taking the case as it stands, if they are
leather belts the underneath one should be
made endless; if that is not possible, then
a metallic belt Pace is recommended. If
the underneath belt is a rubber, hair, balata,
sewn cotton or, in fact, anything but a
leather bolt, in all probability it cannot be
made endless in Australia, and in that case
we can only suggest that the metallic belt-
lacing be. tried.
(1) Wliat' opportunities exist for a young
man to join as a cadet in the New Guinea
police service? (2) Particulars re age, quali-
fications, salary, chances of promotion in
that service? (3) Where should one apply?
—7555.
(1) Cadets are not appointed to the N.G.
police service. (2) As to the N.G. public
service generally, cadets must be between
20 and 24; salary to start, £300; probation
for two years; applicants must have passed
the leaving examination at one of the Aus-
tralian universities ; appointment will be sub-
ject to passing medical examination; three
months’ leave on full pay after 21 months’
service. (3) Secretary, Home and Terri-
tories, Canberra.
I want to pick up a bit of modern Greek.
Any books on the subject? Gan get plenty
of conversational practice. —76oß.
There is (1) a true vernacular and (2)
an artificial “purist” Greek as written in
the newspapers, but not used in conversa-
tion, except by those who wish to parade
their superior education or to impress the
foreigner. The most vital of the literary
output of the modern Greeks in verse and
prose is in the vernacular. Books recom-
mended : “A Short and Easy Modern Greek
Grammar,” by Mary Gardner (Nutt, about
45.) ; “Handbook of the Modern Greek Ver-
nacular (with Grammar, Texts and Glos-
sary),” by Albert Thumb (T. and T. Clark;
about 125.). The latter is undoubtedly the
book for one who wishes to learn true
modern Greek.
(1) Can gum-cotton be purchased and
where and approximate cost? (2) What
would the probable result be of a charge
on a granite face 20ft. deep by 10 ft. wide?
(3) Is it necessary to bore for thg charges,
and how does it compare with gelignite? —
7477.
(1) Gun-cotton cannot be purchased by
the general public, as it can only be trans-
ported and used in a wet condition, owing
to the danger of premature explosion when
dry. (2 and 3) Wet gun-cotton would give
results equivalent to gelignite; if a stronger
explosive is desired, try gelatine dynamite
or blasting gelatine as an alternative, to be
used similarly to gelignite, but having 10
and 25 per cent, relative increase in strength.
(1) What toould one pay for land for
market garden within 50 miles of Sydney?
(2) How can one estimate value per acre of
same? (3) What acreage would one have
to cultivate in a normal season to clear
£4 to £5 a week above working expenses? —
7604.
(1) and (2) Depends on proximity to rail
and markets, class of soil, and availability
and juice of water. (3) Depends on fer-
tility of the soil, degree of skill possessed
by the person working the land and the
amount of labor applied.
What causes my loud speaker to moan?
I have a Marco Four radio set here, and
am using a Philips 3002 8 eliminator. It
always occurs just as I am bringing in a
station at its loudest, and it very much mars
interstate reception.- The moan gives a good
imitation of a foghorn.— 7749.
Quite possibly it is caused by interaction
between the speaker and the valves. When
a speaker giving out good volume is placed
m a small room with fairly bare walls, or
when the speaker points towards the re-
ceiver, the sound waves cause the valves to
vibrate,, and this produces a continuous moan
in the speaker. To eliminate this interaction,
keep the speaker as far as possible from the
receiver, pointing it away from same, and
if necessary wrap the valves (especially the
detector) up in some flannel or thick cloth.
Purchase an india-rubber sponge, cut it in
four pieces, and rest the receiver on this.
Finally, change your detector valve with the
R.F. or first audio if either of these two are
of the same type as the detector.
Re shark fishing on N.S.W. coast. (1)
Best locality? (2) Cost of launch, gear, etc.,
and average weekly cost of running same?
(3) Best way to dispose of catch, and prices
obtained? (4) Are any cos. already operat-
ing on the N.S.W. coast, and are they making
a success of it? —7688.
(1) The best N.S.W. localities at present
seem to be: South Coast, near Twofold Bay;
North Coast, from Coff’s Harbor north. (2)’
Launch with gear: about £1000; crude oil
cost would be very small. A boat would re-
quire a crew of, say. three men. (3) Shark
Fisheries, Ltd., Brook House, 17 O’Connell-
street, will negotiate for purchase of skins,
etc. (4) Two cos. are operating success-
fully on the N. _S. Wales coast—Shark
Fisheries and Marine Industries.
I have insured my daughter with the Aus-
tralasian Catholic Assurance Cos., Ltd. Is
it sound and desirable? —773l.
There are lots of things this Department
doesn’t know about this co. Its paid capital,
at the latest date for which figures were avail-
able, was £14,610; but there was £5891 of
that not represented by tangible assets. Sub-
ject to that, total funds were £104,481, which
should easily meet all obligations. Expenses,
however, are heavy, amounting last year to
over 50 p.c. of the premium income; and
until that can be tremendously improved
there can be no hope of bonuses.
The address of the Royal Geographical
Society in Brisbane, and what steps' must one
take to become a member? —7700
The hon. gen. sec. is Dr. J. P. Thompson,
C.8.E., Turbot-street, Brisbane, who will
arrange for nomination.
(1) Is there any cure for self-conscious-
ness? (2) Would hypnotism prevail against
it?—' 7743.
(1) Tlie cure lies entirely in your own
hands. Realise that you are just as good as
your neighbor. Force yourself to enter into
any conversation of the moment. If you
say something stupid the first time of forcing,
try again and again till you become abso-
lutely free of self-fear, for that is the root of
your trouble —you are afraid of yourself and
your capabilities. (2) We don’t advise it.
(1) Gross return of one acre of bananasf
(2) Working expenses (planting, weeding,
collecting, packing, etc.)? (3) Area which
can be worked by one man? (4) Any by-
products or side-lines? (5) Where could I
get detailed information regarding banana-
growdng, price of land, best localities, best
varieties to cultivate , etc.? —7706.
(1) Varies according to local circum-
stances from 80 to 200 cases per annum. (2)
For the first year (exclusive of land-clear-
ing) about £350 for five acres. (3) Five
acres. (4) No by-products worth consider-
ing have been produced in Queensland. The
fruit admits of drying and may be sold as
dried banana. It can also be used in con-
fectionery. It also can be converted into a
nutritious flour. It is reported to provide,
with distillation, a most excellent whisky
which matures in two years less than that
made from barley. (5) Detailed informa-
tion regarding culture, etc., could be obtained
fr. m the Department of Agriculture, Bris-
bane, and prices of land and information
relating thereto from the Lands Department,
Brisbane.
Standard and age required of applicants
for S.A. mounted, and foot police?—- 7693.
Age not less than 21 and not more than
27 years; and applicants are required to
apply personally at the Commissioner’s
office, Adelaide. Physical qualifications:
Chest measurement, foot, 37in. to 38in.;
mounted, 36in. to 38in. Weight (minimum),
foot, list. 21b. to 12st.; mounted, lOst. 101 b.
to list. 71b. Height, foot, not less than sft.
lOin. in bare feet; mounted, not less than
sft. 9in. in bare feet.
Is the Commonwealth Defence Depart-
ment still carrying on military surveys, and
is it still publishing sectional maps? Where
can these maps be purchased? —7739.
The department is still engaged on mili-
tary surveys; work at the moment is pro-
ceeding in N.S.W., Vic. and Q’land. Alto-
gether about 50 sheets have been published,
and this number is increased by about five
additional maps every year. The maps were
withdrawn from sale some years ago in the
interests of national safety.
(1) About how long do they expect to
take to complete thq W yang ala (N.S.W.)
dam scheme? (2) Will many men be em-
ployed on it? (3) Where is it? —7591.
(1) Estimated that it will fake five or
six years to complete Wyangala dam. (2)
Expected that shortly about 150 men will
be employed on preliminary work, but when
the work is in full swing 400 or 500 men
will probably be employed. (3) Site of pro-
posed dam is about 18 miles from Cowra.
(1) How can I make cheese on the farm?
(2) How can I procure and preserve the
rennet from calves? —763o.
(1) A precis of instructions written last
year by A. B. Sheldon, dairy instructor in
the N.S.W. Department of Agriculture, has
been prepared for this paper’s ‘'Man on the
.Land’s Page.” Watch for that. (2) Re-
garding the question of procuring and pre-
serving rennet from calves, it is not advis-
able to prepare it by home methods owing
to the difficulty in maintaining purity. Com-
mercial rennet extract of good lceeping qual-
ity can be purchased in small bottles from
the Metropolitan Meat Industry Board,
Sydney, suitable for farm use.
(1) What is the award rate of pay for
a female assistant aged 17 in a N.S.W. shire
clerk’s office? (2) If she has been under-
paid how can she recover the balance? —
7720.
(1) A female of 17 employed wholly or
mainly upon clerical duties, other /than a
shorthand writer, typist or calculating-
machine operator, should receive £94 10s.
p.a.; shorthand writer, typist or calculating-
machine operator, 17, £lO5 18s. lid. p.a. (2)
By proceedings before an industrial magis-
trate or in a Court of Petty Sessions; but
the claim is limited to six months, and wages
due beyond six months prior to the institu-
tion of proceedings are not recoverable. The
Department of Labor and Industry will pre-
pare the papers necessary to enable an em-
ployee to take action before an industrial
magistrate on payment of fees (65.).
(1) What make of telephone is considered
the best to instal on a private line between
farms, with connection to a Government ex-
change to follow? (2) Best and most eco-
nomical kind of wire? (3) What would a
line without poles cost per mile, wire and in-
sulators? (4) Cost of telephones? (5) Is a
single-wire■ line, earth circuit, satisfactory for
private lines up to six miles in length? —
7715.
(1) It is a matter of opinion; according
to the department in Sydney satisfactory
instruments can be obtained from L. M.
Ericsson, 19 York-street; British General
Electric Cos., 104 Clarence-street; Standard
Telephones and Cables (A’sia), 82-96 Myrtle-
street, Chippendale; and Siemens (Aust.),
205 Clarence-street. (2) Copper wire. (3)
Copper wire and standard insulators, ap-
proximately £l2—exclusive of the cost of
erection. (4) Approximately £5 retail. (5)
Yes. But single-wire lines cannot be con-
nected without special apparatus to Govern-
ment long-distance services.
I have a lawn planted this season, and,
although it is sending out green shoots, the
surface is so hard that it looks impossible
for it to root when it starts to run. (1)
How can 1 keep the surface soft and, loose?
(2) Would sheep manure be a good thing to
spread over the top of it? —76B4.
(1) Gypsum, about lib. ner square yard,
should open the soil and improve its tex-
ture. (2) Sheep manure also should improve
texture. But the manure should be allowed
to stand, being turned over occasionally, until
weed-seeds have been eliminated.
In 1920 I applied for 200 £1 shares in a
Melbourne concern. I paid £25 deposit.
Later I paid £3OO and received £25 change
and a share scrip certificate. Some months
later I sold my shares to the managing
director for £25. The only official paper I
have is the receipt for the £25 deposit. I
am now being dunned for £75, which they
state is the balance due on the 200 shares.
How does it all stand? —7845.
You should have seen that the shares wer e
transferred out of your name. If the trans-
fer was not registered, the co. (or the
liquidator) knows only you. Of course, if
you have evidence of sale, you have your
remedy against the purchaser. Your dilemma
show’s how enormously important it is to
see that transfers are registered.
Information Supplied.
7408.—Tanning hag a preservative effect
on cotton fishing-nets, but is inferior to tar-
ring. A tanned net slioukl be hung out to
dry after each haul and never rolled up or
left in a heap, otherwise the moisture in
the fibre, which owing to the salt can never
be thoroughly dried out, rots the net. Tar-
ring keeps water out. It also tends to pre-
vent a net from rolling up when hauling in
rough weather. Soak the net in warm (not
hot) tar, wring out the surplus and dry:
this will take about two weeks. Coal-tar will
do, though some shipchandlers sell a line
specially prepared.—E.V.S.
Does Anybody Know ?
How to clean petrol that has been used
for suit cleaning?—7B73.
How to prevent shop window from frost-
ing inside in winter? —7869.
How to keep cats off a flower garden?—
7867.
Brief Answers.
H. 0.11.: Write to Will Andrade. Central
Chambers, 173 Pitt-street, Sydney... .P.L.: It has
been stated that the Arabs had visited Australia long
before the Portuguese, the Spanish or the Dutch, but
there is no evidence to support the statement....
. ...M.0.H.: A week’s notice should be given....
V. : In Queensland a girl under the age of 17
may be brought before the Children’s Court as an
uncontrollable child, and until she reaches 21
parents’ consent to her marriage is necessary....
R.0.C.: Lyric faintly reminiscent of “The Face on
the Bar-room Floor”; not worth setting to music.
....Romsey: Estimated population of London at
July 1, 1926, 7,791,310; of New York, 5,924,500
. ...T.E.M.: Copy of Edmund Fisher’s “The Kiss of
Dolly Day, and Other Cynical Rhymes for Reci-
tation,” E. W. Cole, Melbourne, should suit you,
. ...J.J.W.: White Lodge, Richmond Park, Surrey,
England. ... E.S.: No need to worry; leather power-
transmission belts can be made waterproof and are
quite satisfactory for use in the tropics... .Les H. W.:
Sydney School of Arts. To join this you must be
proposed and seconded by two members and attend
on some Thursday evening; subscription, 4s. per
quarter in advance... .Lila A.: (1) There are no
present vacancies for female warders in the N.S.W.
prison service, and there is a waiting list. (2)
Apply Comptroller-General, Phillip-street, for form
of application. .. .W.C. (Casino); (1) Vic. agent is
T. W. Sands, 372 Lonsdalc-street, Melbourne. (2)
The Woman’s Mirror contributor reports: “I have
seen them demonstrated and they appear to be
efficient”... .E.J.C.: She doesn’t look much like an
old master, does she?....Farmer: (1) No. (2)
Because (a) the amount of paid capital is un-
disclosed and (6) the chances are that the money
will be paid for land which may not be saleable
when the deposit is due... .T.F.W.: Sorry, but
the law won’t let us... .S.F.L.: You can’t make
money that way. What you want to look up is a
stock that “everybody” isn’t buying yet, but is
likely to be buying presently.... Kathleen C.: Angus
and Robertson have a film edition of “Ben Hur”
at 3s. 6d. (postage 4d.) ; also one at 2s. 6d. (post-
age 3d.) ... . J.C.: Education test for admission to
N.S.W. police force consists of writing from dictation
and working out a few questions in elementary
arithmetic. Write Officer in Charge, Police Depot,
Bourke-street, Redfern XYZ: Apply to their
consuls or to Nosawa and Cos., Challis House, Sydney ;
also Nippon Yusen Kaisha. Burns Philp are also
in close touch; and Dalgety’s, Sydney, might help.
. ...E.R.A.: (1) Undoubted literary merit. (2) The
pictures of Arabian life and character are excellent.
(3) Has been private in R.A.F. ; said to be now
somewhere on the Afghan frontier Timberworker :
Genuine enough, but too optimistic and very specu-
lative. You can find a hundred safer tilings to put
your money into. .. .Sparks: Put the matter before
Malcolm Newman, Jamieson-street, Sydney....
M.R.: The cannery at Leeton (N.S.W.) starts on or
about December 15. There may be work for sisters
at picking. Better interview the manageress of the
Women’s Employment Agency, a State office, 132
George-street, Sydney T.L.H.: Avery handy book-
let by Queensland poultry expert P. Rumball posted.
. ...A.D.M.: Much of the steelwork for the arch of
the Sydney Harbor bridge has been wholly or partly
fabricated, and things are almost ready for its
erection. .. .A. J.M.: We do not recommend it....
No. 65: But don’t you see that our paper-money is
no good outside Australia? Certainly you could
bring it back to Australia; but if you lived abroad,
what good would that be to you? If you live out-
side Australia you want money that will buy things
for you outside Australia V.D.: (1) Very vague.
On the prospectus, it has poor chances, anyway.
(2) No two valuations of this show agree; and
when in doubt stay out H.W.W.: (1) 4-9ths cubic
yard per 100 ft. core from 4in. drill. (2) Not
understood. .. .Charles M.: Can’t answer No. 2 with-
out a plan showing eliminator and receiver H.T.
terminals and connections 5.1.5.: Don’t think so.
The trend of business is away from that quarter
J.T.: Freight would be about 21s. Get suppliers to
communicate with the Roosevelt Steamship Cos.,
New York; it has sailings from Philadelphia
W. : Mr. Walter Taylor, 219 George-street,
Sydney W.M.P.: “The Art of Roadmaking,” by
H. Frost (255.) ; “Modern Road Construction,” by
F. Wood (265.) ; “Modern Roads,” by H. P. Boul-
nois (205.) ; and “Elements of Highway Engineer-
ing,” by A. H. Blanchard. Obtainable from Dymock’s
Book Arcade, 428 George-street, Sydney G. de TANARUS.:
(1) T. E. H. Kuwahata, 183 George-street, Sydney.
(2) Cannot trace Sydney retailer. (3) Yes, from
address given in reply to Question No. 1
W.G.: Stanley Bruce is a shareholder in Paterson,
Laing and Bruce. He resigned his position as
managing director on accepting office as Federal
Treasurer in the Hughes Cabinet, December 21, 1921.
practically at the head of Burragorang Valley, the
means of access being via Wentworth Falls and the
King’s Tableland. So far as the N.S.W. Government
Tourist Bureau knows, there is no regular service
to the valley, the means of transport being by pack-
horse. Rabbits are plentiful, also a few foxes and
kangaroos E.A.Y.: He is editor of the Sportsman,
King-street, Sydney R.C.: (1) Officer-in-charge,
Private-box Room, G.P.0., Melbourne. (2) You
should be able to get a small one for £1 Is. per
annum Mrs. S.: (1) Boys and girls with N.S.W.
Intermediate certificates are eligible for vacancies
on the N.S.W. Government Savings Bank clerical
staff up to the age of 17; for those with the Leaving
certificate the limit is 18 years. (2) Girls are
eligible as typists up to the age of 18 J.W.G.:
The State Hospitals at Lidcombe and Liverpool
would receive them. ... (Many others mailed; replies
to farm questions transferred to “Land” pages.)


1
£
TO
♦
•V
JK‘\
m
dre
r*
SS
3
*STi^
I
G "'
Poxv,
«»</■
.’■Hr?
FH
£%*
s&
V*
m
n
e*
rt
£**
Sr
*s
dr
**
IF.
m
8
r»
r*
u
fT
<ft
J*i
[jh^
rr
%
•ft
t.«
-S
\y,
4%
•ft
/?
uhsi
**
±Ok
r
»
p
N
§&
f
t<„
%
/
AUSTRAUASDWN
READY FCR
ACTIVE SERVICE
ANYWHERE- /
ANY TIME * /
/
Australian Made lyres
The Rapson Tyre & Rubber Co. (Aust.) Ltd.
R apsonia •• Launceston -- Tasmania
. (baton)
D D t
TVTO longer recruits ... they’ve proved
IN themselves under the hardest of tests
... over hill and dale on the roughest roads
Tasmania could provide. Now the Aus-
tralian Rapsons ...“The Worlds Best
Tyres”... are in production.. .and soon
will be available through any Garage in
the Commonwealth.
Arrange to detail Rapsons for duty on
your car. For then you will receive
faithful, true and loyal service through-
out a tyre life, the length of which you
never imagined possible before*


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
If a gift to a man is purchased
at Peapes’ it receives his thorough
approbation, since he knows that
any article from Peapes’ is dis-
tinguished by QUALITY, VALUE
and SERVICE.
If so desired, gifts will be
forwarded with donor’s card
enclosed, direct to any address on
any date specified.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
'"V W- ; " X :
¥
■«
'■■ 89 p.
r.i
mi
• :n „
■£s/d
‘ V&BW i Wßmswm wJS-J
/
“Its Quality Never Changes
AUSTRAUAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Stockmen!
/lucA TjowiJats
ffmcAcohiit.Cx/lSi
Homebush Yards, or Enoggera Yards,
Sydney,
Brisbane.
Auctions in both markets conducted by stock depart-
ment managers. Cattle, sheep, lambs, pigs and calves
all realise top values at the firm’s sales
WINCHCOMBE, OARSON
STOCK SALESMEN,
LTD,
Wincheombe House, and 99-101 Eagle Street,
Bridge Street, Sydney, Brisbane.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
NITROGEN AND BACTERIA.
, d J^ atter ’ s " ai '^ on nitrogen
(B. 21/11/28) wnl stand a little amplifi-
cation. vegetable matter contains a com-
paratively large quantity of nitrogen, and
after decay this nitrogen is still present in
tie liumus. Plants obtain their food from
the soil through very fine hair-like roots by
capillarity. The action is the same as that
of a lamp wick soaking up kerosene 1 . Solids
cannot be drawn through a capillary tube,
consequently the plant must absorb its foods
in solution. The nitrogen content of the
humus is not in soluble form and is there-
tore, m this form, not available as a plant
f° od - The necessary transformation is pro-
duced by the aid of bacteria, invisible to
the naked eye, many millions of which may
exist in one ounce of soil. There are many
varieties of bacteria, each fulfilling its own
function, but nil full into one of two classes
The aerobic bacteria, working in the pres-
ence of air, are the friends of the plant; the
anaerobic, which do not require air, are its
enemies. These bacteria under favorable
conditions multiply very rapidly—one very
cogent reason for frequent soil tillage to
encourage the one variety and to hinder
the other.
On e species of bacteria thriving on the
humus of the soil converts its organic nitro-
gen into the amraoniaeal form; another
carries the process further with a conver-
sion into soluble nitrate. These nitrifying
bacteria cannot live in an acid medium, and
as some acid is continually being produced
in the process of soil transformation the
presence of a neutralising substance such as
lime is required. This action is compara-
tively slow, and it is when the amount of
readily available nitrogen is small (hat
commercial fertilisers such as sulphate of
ammonia and nitrate of soda should be added
to the soil.
A practically illimitable supply of nitro-
gen is in the atmosphere, but unfortunately
tree nitrogen is only very sparsely soluble
in water and is a particularly inactive gas,
entering into combination only under special
circumstances. For Instance, the electrical
discharge of a thunderstorm will cause the
combination, of a certain amount of oxygen
and nitrogen, which, entering the soil, will
become available as a plant food.
There is however, one class of aerobic bac-
teria, living in symbiosis with leguminous
plants, which can make use of the free
nitrogen of the air present in the soil and
exchange it for carbon derived from the
plant substance. If the roots of clover or
French beans are washed, small white
nodules are visible. Those are colonies of
bacteria. The. most vital food for legumi-
nous plants is nitrogen, consequently' its
return to the soil provides a supply for
future crops in its cheapest form.
POTASH AS A FERTILISER.
“Hatter”: Although potash is often shown
by chemical analysis to be present in soils,
it is frequently not in a form available for
the plant to absorb. This particularly applies
to clay' soils, which are usually rich in this
element, but require some other agent, such
as lime, to unlock the supply. Except in
the case of granitic and volcanic soils in their
virgin state, _ potash should always be sup-
plied according to the requirements of the
crop. While phosphates form the skeleton
and seed of plants, potash helps to build the
leaves and young shoots. It also acts as an
insecticide, since it give plants an alkaline
flavor that renders them distasteful to pests.
A more liberal application of potash in
orchards would be invaluable for this reason
alone. Potash improves the flavor of fruit,
which can never be first-class unless the
triers have access to generous supplies.
I otash can be economically applied in
three forms—sulphate of potash, muriate of
potash and kainite. The muriate produces
the best results, weight for weight, but it
is unsuitable for many crops, such as sugar,
beet, maize, potatoes, tobacco and all fruits •
for these only the sulphate should be used!
lor general purposes the sulphate and muri-
ate can be usefully mixed in the proportion
of 2:1. Kainite, in addition to potash, con-
tains salt and magnesia, which renders it
particularly effective as an insecticide, but
it is unsuitable for the crops mentioned
above. It shows especially good results on
mangolds, which thrive on a salty soil, and
is recommended for inland pastures mixed
with basic slag in the proportion of six
parts of slag to four of kainite. Wood ashes
contain potash, but their action is extremely
slow when they are applied in their rough
state. 1 hey should be powdered, mixed with
quick-lime bleached in water.
Plants will not reap the full benefit from
the application of nitrogen and phosphates if
the proper proportion of potash is with-
held. and this naturally varies with the re-
quirements of the crop. It is less essential
tor wheat than any other crop, but oats and
barley require it. The greater the quantity
of starch and sugar in a plant the more it
needs potash. Thus, while Jcwt. per acre
muriate of potash might be sufficient for
cereals, a leguminous crop will thrive with
fewt.; potatoes and vegetables will use
lewt. ; and sulphate is none too much
for maize or sugar. For orchards, an excel-
lent plan is to sow vetch or peas between
the trees with lewt. basic slag and lewt.
sulphate of potash. The leguminous crop
supplies not only humus but the necessary
nitrogen and the basic slag contains the ele-
ments of magnesia and iron needed by fruit
trees in small quantities. Even one element
lacking from its diet, however minute the
quantity used, renders a plant less thrifty
and more susceptible to pests and disease
than it should be.
HOW TO BUILD A STACK.
“Penfield”: Of course there are excep-
tions; but it is generally true, nevertheless,
that the haystacks in N. S. Wales are ill-
built, untidy and uncared-for compared with
those of S. Australia and Victoria, and
officers of the N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture are greatly concerned about the
waste that results. I don’t know any better
instructions for stack-building and -preserva-
tion than were drawn up over 20 years ago
by Mr. Samuel Wilson, of Lake Cowal:—
Lay out an oblong 40 feet long.and 16 feet wide.
1 ut a straight pole in at each corner 16 inches in
the ground and 16 feet out. Cut a niche in the
pole 6 feet up, and insert a stay 9* feet long at
the true diagonal of the oblong. Before fitting
the stay, plough about 6 or 7 feet round the intended
stack, and with a small scoop put the ploughed
earth between the poles, spreading evenly with a
shovel to make a foundation for the stack.
A stack should be started at the outside edge bv
ayi tig each sheaf butt out, and at right angles to
the edge till the corner is approached; then when
approaching the corner, give each sheaf a slant
so that the corner sheaf will be on the true
diagonal. Continue this plan until the whole outside
row is completed. When laying all the inside
rows, proceed on the same plan, but turning the
heads out instead of butts. Work to the right-
hand side with the whole of one layer and to the
left side with the next layer of sheaves. Push the
eave sheaves out about four inches all round, draw
the stack in as required and finish off one sheaf
wide. (The outside and second row of sheaves
should be put in their places with a pitch-fork,
and on no account should anyone stand on these
two rows). By so doing it will be found that the
stack will sink so as to keep water out, and stacks
built this way will not slip while being built, nor
after. Tramp the centre as much as possible.
Put galvanised corrugated iron, bent to one-fourth
of a circle, on the ridge, and bolt it together, putting
wire across it attached to poles to prevent strong
winds from taking it off.
If built as directed and a binding sheaf put in
along the centre where the butts meet, it will be
found that the centre is well up, and will run the
rain out. If meant to stand for over one year,
thatch with rye or wheat straw, and use No*. 20
galvanised wire instead of twine for holding the
thatch on. Use thin long pegs, and be sure and
drive them so that they will run rain out of the
stack and not into it. Pull the corner poles of the
stack down immediately it is finished.
If mice are bad, poison them in dishes of arsenic-
water placed round the stack, using lib. of arsenic
to 40 gallons of water.
Wheat should be cut for hay as soon as it is in
flower. Place it in stooks about 10 feet long and
3 feet wide, and thatch every stook with sheaves.
If this is done, rain cannot spoil the hay. It
should be left standing in stooks for a fortnight or
more.
Or, if you have the patience, you can
make your own “rope” for thatching ; and if
you haven’t the patience, it’s a good thing
to acquire. The “rope” can be made on a
windlass, attached to a post, and is a one-
man job. Rye or barley straw, well wetted,
is the material to be used.
FODDER RESERVES.
“Minthall”: In a country like Australia,
subject to dry spells, it is a matter of ele-
mentary prudence to conserve a little fodder
each year to tide over the dry season that
is bound to come. It’s a pretty rotten hold-
ing that cannot boast of a few acres that
can be cultivated, and an area should be
cropped, systematically each year, and the
results stored in sheds or stacks. Wheat,
oats, Japanese millet, Sudan grass or lucerne
stored in pit silos, stacks or sheds last for s
good few years, and keep the stock in better
condition on their own ground on a smaller
ration and at much less expense than if they
were sent to relief country. Don’t be tempted
to market your fodder crop if it happens to
be a prime one and the market; is high.
Every hundred tons you store may mean the
salvation of hundreds of your sheep. If
your selection is too poor to grow a crop, buy
baled lucerne in a good year when the price
is down —it sometimes sells as low as £3
a ton. It keeps well, and is a better pro-
position than paying £lO or £l2 a ton when
the drought arrives. And don't fail either
to insure your stacks or to make them mouse-
proof.
MINERAL FEEDING.
“Jack Point”: Broadly speaking, there are
about a dozen minerals which are absolutely
necessary to all animals. These are avail-
able under normal conditions in the animals’
ordinary feed, but in nearly every case they
are not available in nearly large enough
quantities to enable the animal to produce
to its maximum capacity. The dairy cow
which chews bones is a common example of
the effects of mineral deficiency in the ration.
This proclivity is generally attributed in a
vague sort of way to a soil poor in lime, but
this is only a part of the trouble, and can-
not be remedied by top-dressing with lime.
Several ready-mixed mineral rations are
now on the market and, being highly con-
centrated, they don’t cost more than a frac-
tion of a penny per animal per week, while
the results obtained in many instances have
been little short of wonderful. The advice
of the State Agricultural Department should
be sought before choosing a mineral ration,
as the nature of a district’s soil has to be
considered.
PHOSPHORUS DEFICIENCY.
Several inquiries have been made lately
relative to a lick for stock suffering from
phosphorus deficiency. The one usually re-
eommended by the excellent Stock Department
of Queensland is as follows: Salt, 40 parts;
Nauru phosphate,. 40 parts; bbnemeal, 20
parts._ To this is added 2oz. to 4oz. of potas-
sium iodide in one ewt. of the mineral mix-
ture. For convenience in mixing, the required
amount of iodide is dissolved in a small
quantity of water and sprayed over the other
ingredients with continual turning of these,
so that thorough distribution is effected. The
mineral ingredients can be procured from
most of the big fertiliser firms; the potas-
sium iodide from a chemist.
HOME-MADE CHEESE.
Last year, in response to many inquiries,
A. B. Shelton, dairy instructor in the N. S.
Wales Agricultural Department, prepared a
paper showing farmers how to produce home-
made cheese with the minimum of expense.
The following hints are based on his instruc-
tions.
See that the milk is perfectly sweet. Add
a pint of clean soured milk and stir thor-
oughly. Rennet required is 1 dram to 3
gallons milk. Dilute it in water, bring the
milk to a temperature of 86deg. Fahr. and
stir in quickly.
In 45 minutes it should coagulate thor-
oughly (curd). Now slice it, first with a
long carving-knife and then with a “breaker”
(a series of wires stretched across a frame,
with handle attached), reducing it to small
cubes. Stir gently; pour off some of the
whey, and heat it to about 130 deg Fahr •
pour back enough of this to raise the tem-
perature of the curd to 98deg.
While the whey is still sweet, ladle the
curd, if it now feels firm, into coarse cloths
and tie up tight, as if it were a plum pud-
ding. After half an hour, cut into 3in.
blocks, put the outside of the curd inside,
tie up again and turn the bundle over; this
procedure is repeated twice. After one’hour
and a quarter sufficient acid will have de-
veloped in the curd for salting. It should
at this stage draw rather less than |in.
threads when a small piece is rubbed on
and withdrawn carefully from a hot iron.
Break up into small pieces and salt at
rate of loz to 31b. curd, mixing it in thor-
oughly. When the salt has been absorbed
the curd is ready for moulding and pressing.
' Hill the curd into tin moulds or hoops
lined with clean cloth. Put a wooden “fol-
lower on top of the cloth. Apply pressure
gradually by means of a lever for about 20
hours, and then remove from the moulds
to a cool atmosphere. Wipe the rinds occa-
sionally with a cloth dipped in brine. Allow
to cure for a week or two.
But don’t try to sell it unless the premises
are registered.
Rennet can be got from the N.S.W Meat
Industry Board, Sydney, at a very cheap rate.
BIRDSVIDLE HORSE DISEASE.
“Pudden”: Somewhat similar to the Kim-
berley disease (B. 7/11/’2S) is one which
makes more or less periodical visits in W
Q land This is the Birdsville disease. Horses
affected seem to be slightly afflicted with
the walkabout disease, as in the case of
Kimberley, but the Birdsville wanderings
aren’t as aimless nor as constant. The'
horses gradually drop in condition, all the
time moving restlessly, and after a couple
of days they begin to gasp and pant for air.
With flanks drawn, with heads outstretched,
with their tails held rigid as after a fast
ride, they stand and gasp.
Sweet nitre has been suggested as a
remedy, but I dosed a well-bred mare with
it and she was dead in less than half an hour.
Some people claim that raking is a cure. I
raked a good mare, one of the best. She
was dead next morning. One vet. stock
inspector says Birdsville has all the symp-
toms of cyanide poisoning. Another, one
degree higher, says it looks like anthrax.
Another theoriser says the kidneys are
affected and full of worms. I don’t believe
any of them. Probably it's due to plant
poisoning, as has been demonstrated in the
case of Kimberley disease. Research into
the matter on the lines undertaken in W.A-
would be well worth while.
The most serious form of Birdsville disease
is in almost every case fatal. In lesser
forms it leaves the horse short-winded for
the rest of bis or her life, -and also with a
dragging hind step. You can always pick
’em—the toes of their hind hoofs are worn
square from dragging in the dust.
IRRIGATION OF PASTURES.
“Salambo”: Experiments in the irrigation
of grassland by spraying are being carried
out in Maoriland, where it is considered by
the Agricultural Department experts that
the spraying of grass is far more likely to
be successful than the spraying! of crops. A
4in. growth of young pasture grass, sprayed,
lia§ produced 30cwt. of young grass per
acre, which in turn produced 301 b. to 401 b. of
butter fat, worth £3>. By spraying a 4in.
growth can be induced in dry weather every
14 days. Sprayed pastures will give in
mid-summer five feedings-off. Unsprayed
land gives one feeding to one and a half
only, so that in districts where land is used
for grazing and the artesian water supply
is plentiful, as' it is on most parts of the
Dominion, the scheme offers attractive possi-
bilities.
COWS OR SHEEP.
“Pick”: Before flippantly contradicting
my statement that N.S.W. South Coast dairy-
men sometimes make a yearly income of
£O6O off 200 acres, “Eureka” (Bi 21/11/’2B)
might have inquired into the carrying capa-
city and monthly returns of some of the
good-country farms on the lower Turon,
the Bodalla estate, in the Tilba Tilba
district, south of Bermagui, and on the
Brogo and Bega flats. The dairying
lands of many of these holdings do not
exceed 200 acres, and they carry up to 80
milking cows. The cow that does not turn
in £1 per month has no room on a South
Coast dairy farm, and £3 a month is nor
an uncommon yield. From 60 cows on
Henckley the record monthly taking was
£2OO. Off the same area the best bred sheep
could not be expected to furnish an income
of more than £3OO for the year. Yet
“Eureka” advocates the abandonment of
dairying for sheep-rearing.
BONE-CHEWING COWS.
“Paul C.” : When pasture lands are defi-
cient in- calcium phosphate milking cows
suffer because it is the chief mineral con-
stituent of milk, and if it is not supplied
in the food a drain takes place on this con-
stituent stored up in the cow’s body till she
becomes a bone-chewer in an endeavor to
make up for the loss.
The cow usually becomes stiff about the
hindquarters, often shows swelling of the
hock and fetlock joints, and soon, gets a
rough, unthrifty look. On pastures where
cows take to bone-chewing a good supply
of two parts salt to one part bone-meal should
be made available in covered troughs. Also,
the pasture should be top-dressed with super-
phosphate or bonedust, so giving to the soil
and indirectly to the grass or herbage those
constituents in which it is deficient.
MARKETING PIGS.
To get the maximum of profit out of pigs,
system and forethought must be employed. A
system of grading must be instituted under
which pigs at various stages are kept in
separate yards or small paddocks, so that
the bigger animals do not rob the smaller
ones of sustenance.
When fattened up and ready for market —
and indeed at all times —pigs should be
carefully handled. Bruises detract from the
value of the carcase.
Whether they are sold as baconers or
porkers, they should be fire-branded before
leaving the piggery, and the agent or factory
manager should be advised concerning the
brand used. That saves disputes over owner-
ship, and. also enables the ownership of dis-
eased animals to be readily traced, which
is to the advantage of breeders, the agents
and the consumer.
COLONY CHICK-REARING.
The best and most profitable method of
chick-rearing is by what is known as the
colony system. When large numbers of
chicks are to be reared there are sure to be
losses through crowding unless steps are


Glossy, pliant
black calf
An Abbey Shoe that fits without a
pinch even when brand-new. It
has low-cut sides that allow full
freedom at ankle—and never bulge.
And, to fit easily over the instep,
it arches at the lacing following
the foot’s natural curve. The toe
is squared and well proportioned
the upper finished with a neatly-
punched design.
ORDER BY POST.
Full and half-sizes available each
in three fittings—narrow, medium
and wide. Specify width when
ordering and ask, also, for a supply
of Abbey Black Polish (6d. per tin).
42 1-
Enlarged Catalogue posted on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
GROCERS
THE “EARL” BACON CUTTERS, “made
in Australia,” are always at your service—made
in five models, prices £8 to £3B, cash or terms.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
HUMPHREY EARL, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
THE CHAMPION SADDLE
fg
WRITE FOR
MY NEW
BOOK.
of Australia
is generally
recogni s e cl
to be
The “GENUINE
WIENEKE.”
Mr. W. W. Davis,
Yulcarley Station,
Bourke, N. S. W.,
writes :—“The Saddle
is everything that I
want. I have in my
possession one about
27 years old. Every-
body should have a
‘Wieneke.’ ”
JACK WIENEKE,
c/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 George Street, Sydney,
Or 434 Queen Street Brisbane.
Made in Australia.
Will give every
Satisfaction.
ASK FOR
df
RENOWN BINDER TWINE
Manufactured by J. SCOTT, LTD.,
163 Clarence Street, Sydney.
r OR THE
SKIN AND SCALP
raiciira
•let
Sv-p. t^K+yruCiJf
World Wide Favorites
For The Skin And Scalp
Regular use of Cuticura Soap, as-
sisted by touches of Cuticura Ointment
when required, keeps the complexion
fresh and free from eruptions and the
hair live and glossy. Cuticura Prepa-
rations are unexcelled in purity and
are regarded by millions as unrivalled
in the promotion of skin and hair
health.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
HPBP“" Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Learn to Think and Speak on Your Feet.
The power to make others grasp your ideas and act upon them—in other words the ability to
speak convincingly—can be developed in anyone. Directors, Secretaries, Salesmen and all ambitious
men who desire to improve in speechmaking should send for particulars of “SPEAKER’S
NOTES” (the wonderful Home Study Course in the Art of Speaking) to PHILIP O’BRYEN
HOARE, M.8.1.M.5c. (London), Specialist in Speech and Speech Defects, 56 Brisbane Arcade,
Brisbane.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY Also at WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales
Throughout the Year
j WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
l HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock, Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney. JAMES KIDD, General Manager for Australia.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED
AUTHORISED CAPITAL . . £250,000
ALL CLASSES OF INSURANCE EFFECTED.
Probate Disability, Extended Insurance, Non-Forfeiture,
Hospital, Medical and Nurse’s Fees Combined.
Make the event which causes the tax create the cash to pay the tax.
HEAD OFFICE: Hunter House, 26 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
A. McLEAN, Managing Director. R. V. BOOTH, Secretary.
INQUIRIES INVITED.
DO YOU WANT TO EARN MORE MONEY?
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life. A profession in
which competition is limited and which offers wonderful opportunities if you have any ability
and are persevering. Our tuition gives opportunities to students not to be found elsewhere.
Write for our booklet, telling of positions, salaries and fees, to-day. Start your new career NOW.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
W&W26.
MB
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Hroad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRANI
gdf
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTY,
LTD.,
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
taken to prevent it. Under the colony
system a house 12ft. long by 6ft. wide 6ft.
high at the front and sft. high at the back
is provided for every 50 chicks. These
houses should be placed irregularly in the
poultry enclosure, whicn must be large
enough to allow 5000 sq. ft. of run
(approximately 70ft. square) for each house.
Each house must be at least 10ft. from the
fence and 60ft. from every other house.
For the first five or six days the run of
each house is separately enclosed by three
portable frames, the house forming the
fourth side. Feed the chicks at a place equi-
distant from all houses and as far as possible
from the gate at which the food is brought
in. After a few days the need for the
temporary enclosures is gone—the chicks
will have formed the habit of roosting in
their own houses. The number in each
house should be reduced from 50 to 45 when
the birds are about half-grown. Pullets
should be allowed to stay in these houses
till just before they are coming on to lay,
and even then they should not be run in
flocks of more than 100 till the humid
weather is over—this applies particularly to
New South Wales and Queensland.
Have the water supply close to each house,
so that the chicks will not have far to go
for it in hot weather'.
LUMPY CATTLE.
“C.C.”: During a drought cattle often
develop lumps in the throat which may be
mistaken for tuberculous glands. Many a
cow has been needlessly destroyed on that
account. The cause of the lump is often that
the animal has been eating prickly-bush
through lack of grass. This penetrates the
soft tissues of the throat and, becoming fixed,
sets up an irritation which generates pus.
The suspicious swelling sometimes disappears
without any treatment through the animal
rubbing it against a fence until the skin is
broken and the pus drained away. But it is
well to use the knife when the presence of
the foreign matter is noticed. An animal
so afflicted is certain to be rejected in a
saleyard, as no buyer will risk giving it the
benefit of the doubt.
ABOUT BANANAS.
“Feng-Shui” : The Australian banana has
now been protected for nearly a decade, and
it is a pity that growers have not made
better use of a golden opportunity. Judging
by the sad, frequently-rotten and invariably
high-priced article obtainable at city fruit-
stalls, the local agriculturist has concentrated
on one variety, whereas our neighbors in
the Dutch East Indies can command at least
a dozen which are edible, from the huge
Pisang agung, or giant banana, which is only
negotiable when cooked, to the handsome red
banana and the sweet Rata-Hondarawala of
Ceylon. The Pisang raja, or royal plantain,
is not to be despised—it is the joint of the
family, while the tiny silky-flavored Sobo
lcapok is the hors-d’oeuvre thereof. For
seven centuries travellers have been en-
chanted by this tropical staff of life, and the
pious Marignolli (a.d. 1290) made the im-
portant discovery it was from the leaves of
the plantain that Adam and Eve made girdles
to cloak their nakedness, while “slice it
across where you will,” he asserts, “you
will find on both sides of the cut the figure
of a man crucified, as if one had graven it
with a needlepoint.”
The banana is easily the most prolific of
plants. The same area that will produce three
pounds of wheat, or 901 b. of potatoes, will pro-
duce at least 40001 b. of bananas, and in the
tropics the first titanic bunch appears within
the first year of planting. In Java I have
been offered as much as an average man
could carry for sixpence ; so, even taking into
consideration the different economic con-
ditions, it is something of a mystery why
the degenerate object retailed in Sydney and
Melbourne should cost anything from a half-
penny to twopence.
PROFITABLE TURKEYS.
“Valerin”: What about turkeys as a side-
line on the farm? I have a neighbor with
200 acres of land; he farms 'BO acres,
and raises 500 turkeys every year.
His return from the turkeys is £250, at a
cost of a few bags of pollard ; a couple of acres
of lucerne and a small bed of shallots pro-
vide the green feed, and the birds forage for
themselves. His breeding stock consists of
40 hens and five gobblers, so that each hen
returns him £6 a year, which is much more
profitable than a sheep. There are few wheat
farms which would not provide enough waste
grain to rear at least 500 turkeys.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Dept.)
My Mack orpingtons since July have not
had any feathers on breast and part of legs.
A thick scurf rubs out of the other feathers,
and they are continually scratching their
heads and picking at legs. The houses are
kept well limewashed, with sulphur in dust
baths. Is there any remedy? —7729.
The birds are very likely infested with de-
pluming mites or scabies. They are a very
small mite measuring about l-150th inch
long. Affected birds should be isolated and
given a dressing of sulphur ointment around
the affected parts and also a little distance
inwards from the bare part, where the
feathers are. The trouble may also be
caused by feather-eating, which habit is often
caused by overcrowding or keeping the birds
confined in small pens without plenty of
scratching material.
What is the cure for lung worm? —764lA.
The trouble is found in both calves and
sheep. Quickest treatment is by injecting
this mixture with a syringe into the wind-
pipe : oil of turpentine and glycerine, 2 parts
of each; carbolic acid and chloroform, 1
part of each. Dose for a calf, 3 drams.
Insert the needle of the syringe between the
rings of the windpipe; and don’t be alarmed
at the violent coughing that will follow. If
necessary, repeat in three days. If you don’t
feel yourself up to using a syringe, or if one
isn’t procurable, get a drench made up: koz.
oil of turpentine, £-dram creosote, 4oz. tinc-
ture of camphor; mix with half-pint milk.
Repeat this dose every week for a month.
For sheep use the same remedies, but in one-
third doses.
How can I prevent caterpillars from de-
stroying the leaves on a grape-vine grown
largely for shade? —7641.
Spray with arsenate of lead, loz. paste
or £oz. powder to each gallon of water.
(1) What is the correct proportion of
iodine to 200 1 b. of salt for sheep? (2) Is
it very beneficial on wormy country? (3.)
proportion of sulphate of iron to 200 lb.?
(4) A good mixture added to salt to prevent
worms in sheep? —7s7B.
(1) 2oz. to 4oz. potassium iodide per cwt.
(2) Salt is the main ingredient in licks
which are detrimental to worms. Potassium
iodide does not play any important part in
this particular direction, but mainly exer-
cises its power in connection with the
general nutrition of the body. (3) 31b. to
41b. per cwt. (4) Salt is the main in-
gredient, and no other ingredient can be
recommended which will assist to prevent
worm infestation. To free the pastures from
worms it is necessary to keep ruminants
off it for 12 months, to prevent both stomach
and lung worms; all stagnant waterholes
should be fenced around or filled in. This
is also a preventive for lungworm in sheep.
My chaff cutter is jambing when fed on
wheaten sheaves. How can I avoid thisf —
7732.
(1) Be sure the engine has sufficient
power for the job. Shortage of power has
frequently caused trouble in ehaffeutters.
(2) See that the points of the roller teeth
are free to pass each other. (3) Be sure
that there is no accumulation of fine dust
in the slotted links or plates at the ends of
the roller spindles. This packs very hard and
prevents free movement of the rollers. (4)
Feed the chaffcutter evenly, and in cases
where the engine shows a tendency to stop,
ease the feed.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Odd Job”: Old spouting that is too rusty
or paint-covered to make a soldering job of
when it leaks will do duty for a while if the
breaks are liberally covered with any good
paint, over which a piece of unbleached
calico is placed. Give it another coat all
over when it’s dry, and it will hold for quite
a long while.
“Bosso”: Seed is sold by the bushel, and
when buying the young farmer is often in
doubt as to the equivalent in pounds that
he should receive for a bushel of the various
seeds. These are the legal standard weights:
Beans, millet, sorghum, peas, rye, tares and
vetches, wheat and amber cane, 601 b.; barley,
broom corn, buckwheat, 501 b. ; maize, 561 b.;
oats, 401 b.; clover, grass seeds and lucerne, 201 b
“Penfield”: This is the time of year when
birdlovers who own a few fruit trees are
not nearly as fond of their pets as usual.
No bird-scare will be entirely effective for
very long, so old ones have to be revived.
This is worth trying. Stick a few feathers
in each end of some empty cotton reels.
Stretch a line over the trees to be pro-
tected, and hang these toys by a foot or
more of string, tying it around tbeir middles.
They will cut queer antics in a breeze.
“Silentio”: A safe and easy cure for sour
crop in fowls is about two teaspoonsful of
sugar and baking soda in a cup of water
(hot). Give the bird two to four teaspoonfuls
daily. Feeding fowls on grain when they
have not had any drinking water is often a
cause of this complaint?. The symptoms are
that the crop is distended, soft and feels
full of fluid. When the bird is picked up
the fluid runs from the mouth. Severe
cases can be treated by operation, but if
administered in time the sugar and soda will
effect a cure.
“G.D.M.”: When cabbages mature at a
time the market is glutted, dig them up
intact, roots and all, and place each one
head down in a hole large enough to accom-
modate it comfortably. Press the earth firmly
but gently about the cabbage so as to cover
it completely. In this way the vegetable will
get enough sustenance from the air to keep
it fresh for about six weeks.
“Orang”: Pulling rabbits out of clefts
with a piece of hooked wire is not sufficient,
for while the rocks remain bunnies will
infest them. It is far better to have the
rocks blasted in the first place. If all logs
were destroyed, burrows dug out and rocks
fenced with netting or blown up, the hawks
and goannas would soon put an end to the
rabbits and there would be no foxes to
worry about.
“Biro”: It is dangerous to give pigs
salted food. Water strained from cooked
vegetables, soup, stale meat, etc., should
never be given to pigs, as the salt in them is
likely to cause scouring or severe poisoning.
The symptoms of the latter are vomiting and
thirst, and later, in the worst cases, con-
vulsions. The only safe course to take if
convulsions set in is to get a vet. to pre-
scribe an emetic. No food excepting milk
should be given for at least 24 hours after
recovery. If scours persist, give a dose of
castor oil.
“Awani” : The best way to stop pumpkin
beetles from destroying young plants is to
place a wire-sieve over them until they are
a couple of weeks old, by which time the
little soft leaves will have given way to
stronger ones, which will be better able to re-
sist the attack of the little spotted pest. If no
sieves are on hand, they may be made by
knocking the bottom out of a quarter-size
fruit-case and replacing it with gauze. I
tried this on my young plants a couple of
weeks ago, and now have a nice lot of young
pumpkin, squash and melon vines, whilst
my neighbors are busy re-sowing their seeds.
“Cobar”: A strange vegetable freak was
grown on a farm at Rutherglen (Vic.). Two
seedlings were planted close together, a cab-
bage and a cauliflower, which at about four
weeks became intermingled. At three months
the heart of the cauliflower was surrounded
by a luxurious cabbage heart. When pulled
the conglomeration weighed 61b.
“Nikko”: Maoriland exporters of dairy
produce, who have for some time been look-
ing speculatively over the globe for possible
further markets for cheese and butter, have
now been joined by the fruitgrowers. Sweden
has signified a willingness to sample Maori-
land fruit, and another promising market is
South America. Trial shipments of apples to
the Argentine created an excellent impres-
sion : Brazil has also reported favorably on
the Maoriland pippin.
“Silentio”: Grafton Experiment Farm,
N.S.W., is making a success of its Ayrshire
herd by exhaustive culling and testing and
the best of feed. Last moqth 10 of the cows
were averaging over five gallons, one going
over six. This should help the cow cocky to
realise that a few good ones are a better
proposition than a herd of scrubbers that
doesn’t average one gallon.


i : f'K r \v % rj=
r-r—rt
4#%*
i=
\ •.
C \\
%
\ \
: /
// •• ••
*
or
*4
£
<?
Y
€
$
X
v\
\
i<s
/
\\
#
£
1
rfS
r
ii
v
i E
V>
E
c
a
I
%
r
£
THE TOURER.
£205
The
Roadster - -
Sports
Roadster - -
Two-door
Sedan - - - -
Four-door
Sedan - - - -
.£205
£226
.£285
.£315
Buy from Your
Local Dealer.
gd
truly sensational qualities of beauty,
performance and economy —selling at prices that
have enabled over 1,000,000 families to enjoy luxurious
transportation at low cost —to-day’s Chevrolet is scoring
the greatest success of this great automotive year!
Never has any Chevrolet enjoyed such overwhelming
public acceptance. For, never has any other low-priced
car offered such an impressive combination of style, smart-
ness, smoothness, power and over-all operating economy.
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR.
Melbourne: Lane’s Motors Pty., Ltd., Exhibition Street.
Metropolis
Sydney: John McGra
Adelaide: Mann’s Motors, Ltd., Franklin Street.
GENERAL MOTORS (J


fjri'A
£
r
1
S i_J
A van
\ \
aLJ
fs>
r 1H
JiU-U
r.
CB
TX
1
*«S
b.
it
\
9
*
&
\
<3BB
as
3
KS
r
tv
rr-
\
N
*
4
£
SB
A\
N
!’J
Greatest Success
With its beautiful bodies, its striking colors and its low,
smart, graceful lines —to-day’s Chevrolet represents one
of the outstanding style triumphs of the year. With its
powerful valve-in-head motor, it exhibits power, snap
and smoothness that are a constant revelation. And
—because of low petrol and oil consumption, and
exceptional freedom from repair—its economy is
truly amazing! See and drive this greatest of all
Chevrolets.
i Distributors:
i, Ltd., Elizabeth Street. Brisbane: Metropolitan Motors, Ltd., Adelaide Street.
Perth: Skipper Bailey Motors Co., Ltd., Hay Street.
AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
k
Bigger
and
Better
s
9
m
SBm
m
a


TUt PERFECT
IVORY TIP
333
&
n
<D SQ
xsi
- ~ .
, • t . —.
-: V - **, " . -
■■■■■■■■■■
E2g% 5 . •JSSEg^^
20 for 1/6
ARDATH TOBACCO
CQ, LT Q» U3NDQH
SMOKE-OH!
The chief object of the peace conference
held lately in Sydney was to end industrial
wharfare.
# *
An affluent father is always liable to suffer
from a touch of the son.
PA’S FEARS.
“Surely your father isn’t afraid that we cant live within my
income?”
“No, hardly that. He’s afraid I can’t live without his.”
Sydney Sun —“Learning Greek at SO.” No
doubt for the purpose of getting the strength
of Bavin’s taxation proposals.
“Politics is no picnic,” says a S. Aus.
M.H.R. It explains why ex-members are not
enjoying their outings.
, * *
Colored silk is now fashionable for bed-
linen. “She went as red as a sheet” is the
new version.
tf. *
GOLFING MEMORIES.
The Reminiscences of A. B. Rabbit.
Written exclusively for the Daily Moron. All
rights reserved.
[Seeing that cricketers and non-cricketers are
being encouraged by rival publications to maunder
about their past doings, we have decided to publish
the life-story of Mr. A. B. Rabbit (“Blanky” to
countless admirers), of the Nulla-Nulla Golf Club —a
human document of absorbing interest.— Ed. Moron, i
The Strategist.
I never actually knew “Hooker” Smith,
who did our ninth in one, or said he did.
However, I have often sat in the verandah
chair from which he was accustomed to
describe his feat. It was a remarkable effort,
if accomplished, seeing that the hole is 280
yards from tee to pin. while “Hooker’s”
drive rarely exceeded 100 yards and failed
nine times out of ten, owing to his habit
of swiping with both eyes shut, to finish
anywhere near the fairway. A theory held
by many was that he had bribed liis caddie —
dismissed later for burgling lockers —to run
ahead and put the ball in the hole, a view
which was buttressed by the fact that his
CARA DENIES IT.
“No, I have never been drunk,” laughed
Cara Malatesha, the world-famous prima
donna, in answer to our representative’s
query. “The amusing story of my love for
the bottle in Dame Isabella Whoop’s brilliant
'Autobiography’ has its foundation, possibly,
in my liking for water, which is the
same color as gin.” See the eighth instalment
of Dame Whoop’s intimate “Autobiography”
on page 12. Exclusive to the Moron.-’-’
i pponent was Rev. Muddle, who, at. the
time, was almost
stone-blind.
The (Done)
Brown Brothers.
Though “Hook-
er” was before my
time the popular
Brow n brothers
(Harold and Her-
bert) were well
know n to me.
What sterling
sports they were to
be sure ! And with
what zest they
played the grand
old game ! It was
the latter quality
which, in a sense,
betrayed the in.
They were on the
scratch mark when
I had the honor to
be elected to the
club. Eventually,
someone observed
that they always
played together,
and without cad-
dies. Their cards
astonished mem-
bers who had
observed them in
bunkers, the rough,
etc., etc., but the
climax came when
Harold became in-
volved, much against
his will, in a game
with our captain,
while Herbert was
forced to take on
a visiting eha m-
pion. I will draw
a veil over what
transpired. Ha r-
old’s score (137) and. a tally of 142
by Herbert (including a 15 at our
EX-KING’S HOBBIES.
“The ex-King of Bsmootoland was a great
friend of mine, and many a time have I
sung to him in the Imperal Kraal. It was
his hobby to have a courtier beheaded after
each number, and afterwards to make over
deceased’s estates to me. He was one of the
few monarchs I have known intimately who
could neither read nor write.” See eighth
instalment of Dame Whoop’s fascinating
“Autobiography” in this issue. Page 12.
Exclusive to the Moron.
famous ninth) disposed for ever of their
pretensions to be Bobby Joneses in embryo.
However, they continued to be much liked
in the club, especially by the pro., who
depended for a good deal of his revenue on
selling balls.
The Lighter Side.
Our pro., “Sandy” MacPherson, had a well-
earned reputation as a wit, and many a
time have I gone off in convulsions of laugh-
ter at his sallies and liumorosities. One
good story about “Sandy’s” readiness in re-
partee is said to have gone as far as his
native Caledonia. A new member, playing
from the tee at the short 14th, landed his
iron shot full in the seat of “Sandy’s” volu-
minous plus-fours. “Sandy,” who had
SPARTAN MEASURES.
MR. BAGGS O’CASH : “This cold weather always makes
me sorry for the poor.’’
MRS. BAGGS O’CASH: “Nonsense! Why can’t they pawn
their diamonds like we used to do?”
stopped on his way to the next tee to tie a
shoe-lace, straightened himself •in a spasm
of agony, and in answer to the stranger’s
apologetic “I was playing for the green”
A MOTHER’S GIRL.
“1 ascribe whatever success I have had
in life to my mother. She was one of the.
ablest women of her time and a friend of
such intellectual mammoths as Gladstone,
Huxley and Darwin. It was to my dear
mother that Darwin first confided his grave
suspicious on the subject of his ancestry.”
See Dame Whoop's thrilling “Autobiography
on page 12.
roared the inimitable reply, “Ye great big
gowk! | half-witted person, or fool. Ox.
Dict.\ Ye canna play at a’! [all].” I
am in hopes that some abler pen than mine
will gather up “Sandy’s” other bright say-
ings and incorporate them in a book. They
are too good to be lost to posterity.
* *
THE NEW REPORTING.
(Influenza having invaded the office, our cricket
expert has been put on general work. We have
great pleasure in submitting herewith the results.)
At St. Hoot’s on Sunday, “Wowser”
Squaretoes, who adopts the
two-eyed stance in the pul-
pit, played a painfully slow
innings on the subject of
“Brotherly Lov e.” H e
scored his points at the rate
of one in twenty minutes,
and there was much enthusi-
asm when he reluctantly
accepted his dismissal after
an hour at the wicket.
Many judges of the game,
including Mrs. Gloome, of
the Zenana Mission, ex-
pressed the opinion that
“Wowser” should have been
given out before he had
scored. His dreary display
effectually settles his chances
for the next bishopric test.
Although they fielded a strong side, the
management and directors of the Gingerpink
and Terracotta Taxicab Company were
dismissed cheaply by a majority of the share-
holders yesterday. “Slim” MacPhairson,
managing director, opened confidently, but was
obviously far from comfortable when facing
the vicious deliveries of a hitherto unheard-
of express bowler. The dark horse lashed
down some legal ones that rose from the
pitch like bombs, and caused “Slim” to duck
for safety. The Caledonian centurion played
a straight bat to most of the fast ones, but
was eventually stumped off a deceptive query
—a twister that beat him all the way-
bowled by a slow interjector who opened
from the back-of-the-liall end. A collapse
followed his retirement, and the selectors
of the financial press have been extremely
critical about the display.
Judge Drake-Beeby umpired the first day's
play of a hard match on the Arbitration
Court oval on Tuesday, when the Treacle-
weavers’ Union made their effort in the daily
competition for the Higher Wages Shield pre-
sented by the late Karl Marx, the eminent
German sportsman. The contest promises to
be a long-drawn-out one. The union side
won the toss, and its main witness, “Quid-an-
hour” Hogan, was not out when stumps
were drawn at the conclusion of the day s
play. The veteran stonewaller will con-
tinue his hand to-morrow, and he assured
the umpire, on leaving the
crease, that he expected to
keep his wicket up for at
least seven days, or longer if
it was made worth his while,
monetarily speaking. At one
stage there was an ugly
demonstration against the
umpire for his action in
warning llogan that he
might be given out for
obstructing the field.
Noticed among the guests
at Mrs. L. S. Dee’s intimate
bridge party last night were
Mrs. Dasher, w'ho brought
the performers cold drinks
in a charming flannel effect,
with a daringly unprotected
leg side; Mrs. Utter-Dudde,
who scored, as usual, with
a blob frock of duck-egg
green; and Mrs. Profitts,
who fielded impressively in
a brocade evening-dress with
strong slips, and very little
cover at point or behind the
wicket. ’
* *
A Sydney daily mentions
that a 37-year-old horse is
living at Auburn. This
seems to establish once and
for all the retreat of the ani-
mal we backed at the last
Itandwick meeting.
ASKING FOR TROUBLE.
“A Mussolini is wanted in this country—God’s
Own Country gone mad. Too much government;
not enough individual effort and liberty!”— P.T.P.
in Sydney Sunday Times.
The sentiments expressed by “P.T.P.”
In Europe would, provoke a sickly smile;-
He'd swap his local suit of liberty
For one cut in the new Italian style.
Reyardless of the tale the Romans tell,
That Freedom (and the Roman surely
knoivs),
Which merely shrieked when Kosciusko fell,
Died in its tracks when Mussolini rose.
* *
FINALITY.
“This is the end,” he said, and waved
the glittering instrument in his hand.
Incredulous, she stammered: “No! it
cannot be.”
“It is the end,” lie insisted.
“But my home”- she began wretchedly.
“I cannot help it,” lie interrupted, “it is
the very end and”....
“Then don’t cut it, please, I’ll take the
piece,” she said, and the shop-assistant
dropped the scissors and wrapped up the
cushion-cover remnant.
W. P. T.
SOMETHING NICE IN THE WAY
OF A CAR.
“Any employee found smoking on duty will
be discharged.”— Melbourne factory notice.
Another instance of “Where there’s smoke
there’s fire.”
THE BOARDER.
I remember, I remember, the places where
I’ve boarded ; whose landladies, for their re-
use, the haggard tea-leaves hoarded. Places
where breakfast, it appeared, was very little
chop, and dinner always made me muse why
anyone should stop. Places where if we came
down late the dishes all seemed gone. “It’s
off,” the maid Would say. (I knew that “off”
was what was on.)
I can remember many such—they used to
be my haunts —where grey and faded females
lived, all shaped like maiden aunts, or ma-
in-laws, who —pensioned off—clung firmly to
the game of ma-in-lawing everything and
making young men tame.
I remember, I remember, the hash-towers’
rigid rules; they made me fear that boarders
lacked the intellects of mules. The glower of
the landlady when I fell upstairs late—ah !
i vliat a gift that woman had for showing-
pious hate!
I remember, I remember, how sick I got:
of all the cribbing and confining ways of
Chronichunger Hall; and how, by dreams of
better things to wild adventure carried, I
settled up the bill I owed, and settled down
ana married !
A ma-in-law lives in our home; so do her
pious sisters; for pleasant sins my vinous
soul still gets its verbal blisters. If I am
late—to tell it all would be too big an order.
To cut it short, I’ll merely state that I am
still a boarder.
P. P.
BACK-YARD VIGNETTE.
Th n - bottle-oh’s vinous face was red;
The lady’s was stern and grim.
“Have you any beer-bottles, mum?” he said,
And coldly she answered him:
“I)o I look as though I drank beer, my man —
That filthy, degrading drink?”
He stepped back then for a better scan,
And murmured: “Well, strike me pink!
I wouldn’t say now as ’ow you do—
’Ow tell-tale these faces are!
Your drink. I’d judge, by the looks of you,
Is gallons of vinegar.”
BOCH.


GIVE HIM
<
cJA
K
f LEASE H»M
» <~
Self Stropping in Seven Seconds
—‘Simple as Simon f
MANAGING AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
No. 99 Set
contains the es-
sentials for a
perfect “Valet”
Share the
razor, b lade
and strop in
neat case. As
illustrated • 3/-
No. 55 Model “C” Set contains
self-stropping “Valet” Razor,
three blades and leather strop. In
highly polished nickelled case with
hinged strop container and nickel-
led blade sheath, lined velvet and
satin. As illustrated - - S/6
No. 50 Nickel Set in highly pol-
ished nickel case with domed lid,
contains heavily silvered self-
stropping “Valet” Razor, 12
tested “Valet” blades, and strop
of selected horsehide in hinged
container. As illustrated 21 /-
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LIMITED, 181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
m&
o
1
tcffQf
v4.> J
i \
. i
\ : t..
tow.
WM
w//,
s%**S
*A, f leaS ‘
Xca
b° tlt
Is*
petti v
'** "
A. 4A <esS
WHATEVER may be your holi-
day mood ... fishing ;
hunting; alpine climbing ;|j
sight seeing... you will be enthralled
:by a change amid New Zealand’s be-
I witching surroundings, a memorable
holiday at unexpectedly low cost.
Let us send you free literature and
details of fares. Use the coupon!
NEW ZEALAND
GOV’T OFFICES
London Bank Chambers..
20 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
<59 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
CHRISTMAS GIFTS THAT
GIVE PLEASURE —SAVE
TIME AND LABOR
Give permanent gifts this Xmas, something that has lasting
value. Something that is going to be appreciated beyond
doubt because of its time-saving usefulness. This is the
Age of Electricity, and electricity is the good Housewife s
aid. Universal Electrical Appliances are the standard of
high quality. So by selecting Universal you need have no
doubt regarding the service and satisfaction your gift
will give.
fg
The Universal Electric
Toaster gives you the
Toast piping hot. You
can make it at the break-
fast table beside you.
There’s no trouble. Just
turn the toast when done
to a crisp brown. It
costs so little to operate,
too.
Prices from
27/6
df
The Universal Iron is
wrinkle-proof. It irons
backward and sideways as
easily as forward, be-
cause of the round heel,
an exclusive Universal
feature. No corners or
sharp edges to make extra
work by catching or
wrinkling the cloth on
the back stroke.
Price
32/-
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD.
279 Clarence Street, Sydney
29 Hunter Street, Newcastle
200 Queen Street, Melbourne
28 Caromandel Place, Adelaide
933 Hay Street, Perth
55 Charlotte Street, Brisbane


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive FoLler.
m
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe-and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
4°/
NEW INTEREST RATE.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia will in future pay interest at
the rate of 4% on the first £5OO of deposits, 3i% on excess over this amount
up to £lOOO, and 3% on excess over £lOOO up to £l3OO.
Society Accounts, 4 % on full balances.
PURPOSE ACCOUNTS.
Purpose Accounts may now be opened at any Branch of the Bank, to provide
for special expenditure, such as holiday expenses, medical expenses, Christmas
extras, higher education for the children, purchase of expensive articles, etc.
From one shilling per week, or fortnight, may be lodged for a period of three
months or more, and interest 'at 4% will be added.
Any number of Purpose Accounts may be opened, and the nature of the purpose
need not be disclosed.
Full particulars from any Branch of the
Cbminonwcaltb Savings lank of Australia
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
BRACKEN
By BERNARD CRONIN
Illustrations <by I^GUSOIt
Synopsis : His father killed in a
street accident, his mother dead on
the day of his birth, Jasper Leith was
taken hy his mother's sister, Ann Mar-
tin, from Melbourne to Musk Ridge, a
selection in Qippsland owned by
Hector Martin. Martin, Ann's hus-
band, was then a striving selector, but,
as fortune went against him on his
dairying block, he sought relief in
drink. His outbreaks whenever a
cheque came in and his increasingly
black temper scared, and subdued, his
wife, and m‘adc miserable the, boyhood
life of Jasper, who slaved among the
coirs, carted the milk to the factory
and cut the bracken that encroached
more and more over the paddocks.
Jasper, when this story opens, is IS,
and is beginning to feel a hatred for
Martin. His aunt has told him to ask
at the factory for a bag of flour,
though, because a month’s account is
owing to the store, she does not expect
it will be there.
CHAPTER 111.
The Factory.
IT was curious to hear the crackle of frozen
mud as the sledge sank its runners into
the bed of the track. The brown mare
was not to be hurried. She stepped with
grave deliberation, wrenching her feet from
the slurry to the
ac c ompaniment of
loud noises. Jasper,
legs straddled, bal-
anced himself upon
the back of the sledge.
In this fashion he
emerged presently to
the grubbed and
cleared but un-
metalled road that
wound for three miles
through virgin bush,
to join the main road
at Guruwa.
Now he found it
politic to walk instead
of riding. He held to
the side of the road;
leaping from rut to
rut, slithering wildly
over intervening glue-
pot s, miraculously
evading stumps and
logs. All about him
rose a coldly-beauti-
ful w 7 all of bush, still
and shining and ara-
besque, and silvered
with slow-melting
frost. There were
huge stringy-barks
and white gums rising
two hundred feet into
the air, with great
spreading heads that
formed a living
canopy; there were
beach and hazel, musk
and dog-wood, and the tall brown boles oi
tree-fern; and crowding into the foreground
was a riot of scrub, interspersed with sword-
grafes, prickly acacia and the lesser ferns.
The great height and regularity of the
bush, its appearance of transparent bulki-
ness, its flowing colors, its immobility
and utter quiet, bore fanciful resemblance
to sharply-divided waters, through which
Jasper, like another Moses, adventured
along a chill, narrow ribbon of sea bed.
His blood was steadily warming to the
exercise. His hands were still numbed, but
his feet were pricking, and he was miserably
conscious of their growing itch. The rag
about his heel had slipped.
He halted a moment, on
reaching the main road, to set
it right, before riding once more
on the sledge.
Other vehicles bound for the factory were
in sight. Once he swung narrowly aside to
escape two spring-carts that were racing
abreast, with cans rattling. The drivers
shouted hilarious greeting as they passed
him. Ahead showed the lime-washed roof
of the factory, and Jasper, clicking en-
couragingly at the brown mare, drew pre-
sently into the line of waiting milk-carts.
Josiah Carbury, manager of Guruwa
Cheese Factory, was a squat, sallow-skinned
man, approaching middle age. A more hir-
sute human it would have been difficult to
find. Hair sprouted from almost every
visible inch of his skin. On appearance, and
upon a first acquaintance, one understood
the charge once rudely levelled at him, by
a drunken teamster, that he had had a
narrow escape from being born a beast.
Carbury was in reality the most good-
na-tured and obliging of men. His little
eyes seldom ceased to twinkle friendlily, and
his wide mouth was screwed upwards at
the corners by its perpetual smile. Guruwa
to a boy addressed him as Joe. His wife,
a stout, placid, motherly woman, was known
correspondingly as Mrs. Joe. It is un-
doubted evidence of the homely appeal of
the Carburys that even comparative
strangers seized without offence upon this
form of address.
The manager stood upon the inner plat-
form of the factory, receiving and weigh-
“Startled out of its dozing, the horse sprang forward, Jasper still dragging at the rein."
ing each consignment of milk. In the order
of their arrival the milk-carts backed up to
the outer platform; the cans were spun on
their bottom circumference to the weighing
platform, and emptied through a large
strainer into the vat resting on the scales.
The precise weight was noted by both Joe
and the owner or driver, and the milk was
then discharged into huge tin-lined vats
on the floor below. Later, the mixed milk
in these vats would be steam heated, treated
with rennet and coloring, sliced with the
curd-knives, salted, ripened and mixed,
placed into standard moulds, pressed, and
passed within a few hours to the shelves
in the curing-room.
Jasper waited nearly tw'enty minutes be-
fore his turn at the platform arrived. Joe
helped him to lift the can from the sledge
to the scales. The manager said, as he noted
the reading: “Down another half gallon,
Jasper. Feed getting scarce?”
Jasper dumped his empty can on the
sledge and shouted at the brown mare.
Disputing voices met his ears as he
drove to the rear of the building.
Half a dozen carts strung away from
the tanks, waiting their turn at the
whey. Each subscriber was allowed, in
theory, whey equivalent of two-thirds
of milk supplied. In practice those first at
the tanks shared most of the spoil, so that
often latecomers went without any whey at
all. There was constant bickering over
this, for no whey meant no meal that day
for the calves and pigs on the farm. One
had to be alert lest one’s rightful turn at
the tanks was unscrupulously stolen. Some
of the grown-ups bullied the youngsters who
were driving.
Jasper saw that something of the kind
had happened now. Lois Beaument was
fiercely contending for place with Tod
Harris. Lois was only twelve. She was a
thin, dark sprite of a child, with a mass of
unruly curls and big black eyes. As a
rule, the milk from her father’s farm, Grass-
lands, was driven to the factory by her half-
brother, Albert, who was her father’s only
child by his first wife, just
as Lois was his only child
by his second wife. Albert
Beaumont was thirty. The
great disparity in the ages
of brother and sister, how-
ever, appeared to have in-
creased, rather than dimin-
ished, their affection for each
other. Lois occasionally took her brother’s
place on the factory cart, not only to aid
him in his work, which was heavy, but be-
cause she delighted to break the monotony
of school life.
The child’s eyes were flashing as she
accused Tod Harris of breaking into the
line unfairly. Tod, a loutish boy of fiftteen,
held to his stolen position stubbornly.
With one foot on the tailboard of his cart,
and the other on the edge of the tank stand,
he was pumping whey steadily, with a grin
for the unavailing efforts of Lois to snatch
the rubber hosing from the mouth of the
milk-can. She desisted presently and turned
a flushed, vexed face to greet Jasper.
“Jasper, I was at the platform first. He s
always doing this, the great sneak.”
Tod winked at Jasper, his grin widening
ill-naturedly.
“Think I’m going to wait here all day?
You let that hose alone.”
“Tod, you’ve got to pull out and let Lois
get in,” Jasper said suddenly. “She was
ahead of you.”
“Have I? Who said so? You mind your
own business, Jasp. You keep away now,
or I’ll stick this hose down the back of
your neck.”
For a second Jasper stood irresolute. Tod
was bigger and stronger than himself. In
all probability interference would go ill
rewarded. But a glance at Lois steadied
his courage. Her eyes were fixed on him
in eager expectation of his help. Her lips
were parted softly, half smilingly; her little
dark face seemed to glow.
Jasper’s lips stiffened. “Tod,” he said,
“if you don’t pull out, I’ll make you. Go
on now.”
“You will?” Tod sneered.
Without a word Jasper darted to the
head of Tod’s horse. He slapped the animal
smartly on the ribs with the palm of his
hand, at the same time jerking the bit-
ring.
Startled out of its dozing, the horse
sprang forward, Jasper still dragging at the
rein. There was an angry outcry from Tod,
and the clatter of a falling can. He fell
sprawling, with the mouth of the hose
belching a stream of sour whey over his
head and shoulders. He rose in a fury,
wiping the stuff from his eyes, and bellow-
ing revenge.
Jasper made no attempt to evade the on-
slaught. He called to Lois sharply: “Get
in quick, Lois. Don’t mind me.”
Tod’s fist struck him on the cheek, cutting
it. He hit hard in
return, and winced
with the pain of his
chilblained knuckles.
His eyes were smart-
ing with unruly tears.
Tod was chattering
like a wild beast.
A strong hand
plucked Tod from
him, leaving Jasper
still erect, but gasp-
ing. Yet he managed
to smile into Joe’s
hairy, concerned face.
“I’m all right. I’m
not afraid of him.”
“You bet you ain’t,”
the manager said. He
turned sternly to the
disgruntled Tod. “You
clear off home, young
Harris. It’s about
time somebody
stopped your thieving
tricks. Eh, and you’ll
get no whey at all to-
day. You can tell
your father so from
me. Off you go.”
Tod left, mumbling. Jasper was feeling
for his handkerchief to wipe the blood from
his cheek, when Lois appeared at his side.
Her eyes were wide, and her face was
pale with commiseration. “Jasper,” she
said, as she touched his hand timidly, “I’m
dreadfully sorry. Does it hurt much?”
“No,” Jasper said stoutly.
“Let’s have a look,” Joe interjected. He
tilted the boy’s head. “My word, you’ll
have an eye on you. Get round to the
(Continued on page 57.)


<
1
//*
I
17+1
D
/s
•111
e
K
•r»«?
1
(ft (Reaf (Biff
What more welcome gift at Xmas and
New Year than a bottle or two of
White Horse —Veal old (Scotch.
What pleasing memories it will inspire
of a distant heather-clad Homeland, and
the old-fashioned festivities!
white horse
Scotch Whisky


mms
i'.y.V.V.*.;;* £!»/•.■* V»s
c»
••V-'.vV.v:
.•••:•
W : :
£&sS£
W
Healthy and full of joy—
WHY should not you enjoy life to
the full, when it is possible to
be healthy and energetic — by taking
Sanatogen ?
Blood, body and nerves will soon gain new
strength and vitality, because Sanatogen
contains exactly those elements —phos-
phorus and albumin—which build up
lasting health in all the body cells.
ce 3
*Thousands of Physicians recommend
Sanatogen in writing—why should
you not, at least, give it a fair trial ?
gdf
Get a tin at your Chemist's.
At all
Chemists
SAHATOCEN
The True Tonic-Food ™
■ GENATOSAN LTD.. LOUGHBOROUGH. ENGLAND.
from 3/9
per tin
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
gd
WAGONS-UTS CO.
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending pass«nger3
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY*
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life BuiMir.p
(Next G.P.0.).
HUSBANDS —Gilt-Edged and Otherwise.
Happy Richard—“ making hay ”
In his addlepated way,
Like a rough good-natured bear
Wrecking every rug and chair —
Anne holds most embittered views,
Ever gleaning gloves and shoes.
ABDUU
.v-
N*K»'N> V>
U W S\'\'N\\SW
•#*r~
When she hisses —" What a mess! ’*
(Men have murdered wives for less!)
Richard, with instinctive tact,
Does the sweet, forgiving act;
Though his den be tempest-tossed
No ABDULLA’S ever lost.
—F. R. HolxiS.
THE UNTIDY HUSBAND
superb CIGARETTES
TURKISH
EGYPTIAN
VIRGINIA


The Ultimate Choice!!
THE
KROPP
It never requires grinding.
MADE THROUGHOUT IN SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Time is proving that
after many experi -
ments the man who
will not be satisfied
with anything but the
best comes back to
the Kropp.
ALL - BRITISH
From the usual Dealers.
Black Ivory or Xylonite Handles.
Wholesale onl / :■
OSBORNE GARRETT & CO., LTD., London. England
S&s
M
'V
MA
■UIC
h
3 ’B
a ox
EV
Era : -
" N
m
>sk>-
THERE »S A
swan" pen to
SUIT ALLTASTES
THIS YEAR-
JjM/t zz JammizmicL
■§Jm^&AUWW
Inevitably, the choice of a 5C Swan ”
sets at rest all doubt as to the
suitability of a gift.
It has the happy quality of pleasing
everyone —prided on its handsome
appearance ; treasured for its sound
utility.
If you would be sure of giving
someone deep and lasting pleasure
this Christmas, send them a “Swan”
and make the satisfaction mutual.
“ Fyne-Poynt ” Pencils from 7/6
Self-Filling “Blackbird” Pens from 9/-
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue ‘Post Free
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House, London, W.U
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Ask to see the New Coloured “Swans.
Self-Filling
“ Swans”
from 17/6
Black or Mottled
'Swan'
PEN©
Self'Filling
“Swans” in
Artistic Colours
from 22/6
(Other “Swans”
from 12/6)
“SWAN” INK —Best for “Swan” Pens and all Pen#
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
“My Official
Wife” (Warner
Bros.) lias suf-
fered some vicis-
situdes. _ She
arrived in Aus-
tra 1 i a some
months ago, but
the Censor took
a look at her
first and promptly sent her back to
Hollywood tQ put more clothes on.
The popular notion of the Censor is
that he is the dour enemy of Art. but in
nine cases out of ten lie is only the foe
of silly and irrelevant salacity. “My Official
Wife” is doubtless none the worse in both
dramatic quality and morals for being kept
out of the bedroom. It is a romance about
Czarist Russia, and if Messrs. Warner Bros,
are right about the manners of the aristo-
cracy, the Red Revolution came not a day
too early. Nevertheless, present -writer hap-
pened to be in the country at the period
dealt with in the story, and he is ready
to swear before 10 Justices of tbe Peace that
officers of the Imperial Guard were not in
the habit of attracting the attention of wait-
resses by hooking them round the neck with
their walking-sticks. For an officer and a
gentleman, Col. Alexis Petrovitch, the hero,
is as convincing as a land-sale prospectus.
That a girl as cultured, accomplished and
sought after as Sonia Veronoff (Irene Rich)
is explained to be could stay in love with
the humorless and brutal boor portrayed by
Conway Tearle suggests that the Slav Cupid
is not only blind but mentally deficient. Still,
the story is very crisply told, and Irene’s
acting leaves a pleasant flavor.
“The Actress” (Metro-Gold w.vn-Meyer) is
the film version of Pinero’s “Trelawney of
NORMA SHEARER, of
“The Actress."
the Wells,”
the story of
the young aris-
tocrat of Vic-
torian days
who fell in
love with the
actress Rose
Trelawney and
submitted t o
his grand-
father’s crot-
chet that the
girl should
spend a
sort of pre-
marriage pro-
bation in their
frigid home
(the pale Vic-
torian equiva-
lent of trial
m a r r iage).
She manages
to last it out
a few weeks,
but a visit
from her old
player friends.
and a little horseplay among them over a
decanter, take the lid off things; insults are
hurled around regardless of slander laws,
and Hose returns to the stage, chiefly to
“rest.” The rather spiritless young man
also leaves, and the old boy, believ-
ing that he has been coming it a bit too
heavy, is prevailed upon by the actor-man-
ager to finance a production as a round-
about way of helping Rose. Both he and
the girl get the shock of their lives when
the leading man for the new show turns
out to be Rose’s lover, who had bolted to
London and gathered a little stage experi-
ence. The piece, carried along chiefly by
Norma Shearer, Owen Moore and 0. P.
Heggie, is a good romance of the stage life
of another age, well acted and produced.
What a war to be wounded in, this one
that is schemed out in the minds of the
scenario-writers! In “Out of the Ruins”
(First' National) Richard Barthelmess is
wounded twice —in the arm, which heals. in
a few days, then through the palm, which
does not inconvenience him at all. After
that he is well, truly, unmistakably and un-
deniably killed. With his first wound fresh
upon him, he meets in Paris a girl whose
parents are keeping the roof oyer their heads
by promising her to a war-rich gentleman.
They plight their troth, and the soldier re-
turns to the line. A letter from the girl
tells him that she is being forced to marry
next week, and, leave refused, he puts his
hand over the parapet and a Fritz sniper
obliges. The C.O 1 . refuses to allow him to
go to Paris even then, so he bolts, and, as
a marriage cannot be arranged, he and the
girl start off on a honeymoon without benefit
of clergy. A week later his conscience stirs
him to run, hatless, back to the firing-line,
only to be court-martialled immediately in
the midst of a Fritz advance, and stood
against a wall whilst shells fall thickly about
the firing-party of 20 or so. Years roll by.
The war ends. The girl promises to marry
the profiteer to-morrow. She looks out the
window, and there stands her hero. The
firing-party, a sub-title explains, were
friends of his and did not shoot very straight.
He was only wounded. The advancing
Boche took him prisoner. G'est le guerre!
Or at least it is the picture war; and, thank
Heaven, it is another w T ar over. There is,
however, nothing wrong with the acting of
Barthelmess, nor of Marian Nixon, nor in-
deed anybody in the cast. And there is no-
thing wrong with the making of the picture
either. As one Bulletin writer puts such
things, it is ding-dong as a church steeple.
“The Big Killing” (Paramount) opens
with direful promise of developing into that
old, old story of the two United States
backwoods families that hate each other as
a Domain dosser hates cold water, and are
spurred into a feud by the love of a young
male on the one side for a young female
on the other. Most of the horrors of that
hoary drama are averted by one of the parties
to the debate engaging a couple of side-
show sharp-shooters. The sharp-shooters can’t
shoot for nuts, and believe the Beagles they
have been engaged to exterminate are the
kind that spell themselves without the capi-
tal, but before they discover the true position
they are in the thick 'of the fight, and from
then on it is a typical Wallace Beery and
Raymond Hatton comedy, about as ridicu-
lous and' impossible as going to Mars on
the business end of a rocket, but more amus-
ing. It is another instance of the movie
laughing healthily at' itself; Heaven knows
that ancient-feud story has been squeezed ot
all the tears it ever held.
The Palette
A visitor to the Contemporary Painters’
exhibition at Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney,
will see something of interest, as well
as a great deal of slap-dash work. A
crudity called “Allegorical Decoration,” by
Aletta Lewis, has the honor of being the
highest-priced exhibit (50 guineas). A fan
design by Thea Proctor, a wattle decoration
by Margaret Preston, a study of trees in
winter by John D. Moore, all much lower
in price, rather ridicule it in quality.
Three unpriced canvases and a pencil, by
G. W. Lambert, stand, with those mentioned,
above nearly every other thing in this show
that has “Christmas present’’ stamped all
over it.
Anyone who wishes to spend, say, a tenner
on several good etchings has a fine oppor-
tunity in the show of T. Friedensen, at the
Fine Art Gallery, Sydney. Etchings that
have been given a place in every important
Art Gallery in Australia are on offer at a
maximum of four guineas, and there is a
wide choice of others scarcely below these
in quality to be had for a guinea or so. The
few nudes included are poor, but the
“human” and “bush” studies have a quality
not at all fairly reflected in their price.
“The Old Drover” (fl Is.), “Fording the
Creek” (£3 35.), “Young Australia”
(£3 35.) and “A Pipe of Baccy” (£2 12s. 6d.)
are just a few of the examples of high-grade
work on Australian subjects. An unusually
interesting show.
The Sedon Galleries, Melbourne, have re-
ceived advance information that Christinas
is coming and have broken out in a severe
rash of potential presents. These include
etchings by Gobo, Anders Zorn, Brangwyn,
Walcot and many others from abroad, as
well as by Australians Herbert Rose, Van
Raalte, Victor Cobb and others. _ Life is
too short to enumerate the collection, but
some cypresses by Herbert stick in the
memory, as also does the rough, trenchant
beauty of the panel by Gobo.
The paintings of Jessie C. A. Traill (Mar-
garet Maclean Galleries, Melbourne) invite
reflections on the laziness of artists. Not
this particular artist, but the general run
of them. Miss Traill has been painting in
Central Australia, 300 miles _or so beyond
the present railhead. She is not a great
artist; in fact, her pictures are mainly of
topographical interest only. But she has
at least had the energy to get out of the
rut and paint more than she can see from her
sitting-room window. One shudders to think
how many views of easily accessible tourist
resorts and how many recurrent inventories
of cows and gum-trees one has glared at in
the current year’s art procession.
“F.S.”: A controversy between A. D. Col-
qulioun, painter of a strong piece of por-
traiture in the Australian Art Association’s
exhibition, and J. S. MacDonald is arousing
mild amusement in Melbourne. The critic
made some facetious comments on the com-
plexion of the sitter, implying that there
was such a thing as flesh color; the artist
retorted by saying that anyone but a critic
would see immediately that the face was
painted under artificial light. The artist is
in the right this time. People who imagine
that there is such a thing as flesh tint are
on all fours with those who believe that the
sea is always blue and the gum-tree a dull
green. The human skin, not being opaque,
reflects both the varying conditions of the
blood underneath and its outside environ-
ment. It can be red or white or anything in
between according to the character of the
light playing on it. It can also be yellow
with jaundice, green with envy or purple with
indignation.
The Inky Way
Hutchisons have just published an English
edition of Zora Cross’s “Songs of Love and
Life.”
“Oxmead”: You can’t dodge these grating
Yankeeisms nowadays, even in the places
where you least expect them. “Fed Wife
Chocolates” and “He Fed Her Chocolates”
were two phrases in point in the S. M.
Herald’s report of a murder case heard in
Sydney last week. And, more than likely,
that is exactly what witnesses said in court.
But it isn’t English. The English of it
would be “He fed her with (or on) choco-
lates.” Judge Curlewis is sometimes acidly
criticised for his tendency to be a purist in
matters relating to the King’s English.
But there are many Judges who err in the
other direction'.
“P.X.”: Memories of the Centennial
Magazine are revived by the appointment of
Ernest Blackwell as one of three members of
the new Film Censorship Appeal Board. That
short-lived magazine of literature and art
attracted a group of brilliant young writers,
many of them now dead, the others scattered.
Among Blackwell’s contemporaries were John
Farrell, the poet, afterwards editor of che
Daily Telegraph ; Tom Heney, something of
a poet, too, in those days, later editor of the
S. M. Herald ; David Ferguson, who read
law and is now Senior Puisne Judge of N. S.
Wales; T. B. Clegg, who also took to the
law.. but later returned to The Bulletin ;
William Lane, who led the New Australians
into Paraguay; and Marr Thompson,
dramatic and musical critic of the S. M.
Herald for a generation. Those were poor
days for the pressman, and Blackwell threw
do Y n , his very graceful pen, studied dentistrv
and has been helping Sydney to chew hard
facts ever since. But he has never ceased
to take an interest in his old love and in
art, of which few men have a wider know-
ledge.


%
■
n
m
m
m
m
Wm
m
Ml
i
rass
2
P»
9
NDOUBTEDLY the final
test of style is the hat.
It is in his choice of head-
wear that a man expresses
his finesse in taste, his nice sense
of respect for time and occasion—
his appreciation of style. Men of
discernment always choose a
ia\|t e fie Id
I Share th eir Merits uOiih ISfono
Obtainable at all the
leading Men’s Stores
FI
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT MATS
PTY.
LTD.


LEFEVER NITRO-SPECIAL HAMMERLESS
df
XefeverWtbospec ial
PRICE
£7/15/-
WONDERFUL VALUE IN DOUBLE-BARREL GUNS.
O.K.’D AND PURCHASED IN QUANTITIES BY U.S. NAVY.
A Lefever Gun is made to shoot right, and throws a pattern superior to many guns much
higher in price. . , .
The lock was designed by the best gunmakers in America, and gunsmiths the country over
say it is the best designed lock ever put in a gun. The first lock was snapped over 77,000
times and the first Lefever Nitro Special Gun was fired about 10,000 times without a break.
A Lefever Gun won the World’s Championship at the Olympic Games in London.
The name Lefever on a gun has stood for service and durability for 50 years.
The best gun ever offered for anything near the price. Made in 12, 16, 20 and 410 gauge.
WHOEVER SAW A BROKEN LEFEVER?”
m
PTY. LTU.
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Don't wish for the Best—get it,
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
AN OLD “SPOT” MELLOWED BY AGE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney.
[4.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Karuma, who was expected to win the
Epsom Handicap until he had to be eased
in his work, and then it was decided to with-
draw him, is now favorite for the Villiers
Stakes, in which he has Sst. 81b., as a result
of a brilliant performance in the Horsley
Handicap at Warwick Farm. For that race
he had Bst. 121 b.. the minimum being >7st„
so he was decidedly well handicapped, as the
field was nothing out of the way. Yet 5
to 1 was called, though it was 5 to 2 at the
start. The son of Magpie—Earloona, who
was ridden by Toohey, cut down two three-
year-olds, Cleave (6 to 1) and Panola (3
to 1), in the short straight, and was going
away from them at the finish of six furlongs,
done in lmin. 12fsec. —unusually fast time
for the Farm. Baillieu and “Constable” gave
a big price for him, but they should get it
all back with interest.
Runnymede also came into favor for the
Christmas meetings because of a good win
on the first day of the Warwick Farm meet-
ing—it was the Leumeah Handicap in his
ease, Sydney publican Trautwein, _ who
bought the chestnut in Maoriland thinking
he had found a rival to Manfred, has stoic-
ally endured many disappointments with him,
and a solid commission at tens and eights
(it was sevens finally) enabled him to make
a substantial entry on the credit side of the
ledger. Well placed throughout, Runny-
mede was hard put to it to beat off Boaster
(6 to 1) in the straight, but he accomplished
his task gamely, and is now in demand for
the Summer Cup, in which he lias 7st. 101 b.
And if he misses that race there is Tatter-
sall’s Club Cup, wherein his weight is 7st.
111 b. The Warwick Farm race was a mile,
and he will probably find another four or
five furlongs more to his liking.
The unbeaten Wedge gelding Holdfast
established his right to be considered the
State’s speediest youngster by winning the
Kirkham Stakes in record time for the
course (lmin. o|see.). Starting from No. 1
position he was late in leaving the barrier,
but a burst of speed brought him from last
to third in a furlong; and the rest was
easy. On entering the straight, McCarten
gave the gelding his head and he cantered in
three lengths ahead of the consistent Uran-
garra (6 to 1), with Cloister (8 to 1) a
length and three-quarters away. There were
no expansive auotes about Holdfast’s chance,
although persistent backing for the Gim-
crack Stakes winner Malvina caused the
Wedge gelding to ease to 9 to 4. His next
engagement will be the A.J.C. December
Stakes, and in spite of the penalty incurred
for his Warwick Farm win he should start
a very warm favorite.
Habashon, whose job was made easier by
the withdrawal of Whitta and Aga Khan,
scored a long-overdue win for Hugh
Denison when he annexed the Camden Handi-
cap. His sojourn in Melbourne did him
good, and he was backed on. Saturday from
fours to 7 to 4, displacing the early favorite,
Beckwith, whose price receded to 5 to 1.
Habashon took charge at the Leger and won
easily by two lengths from Beckwith,
Chryses (10 to 1) being half a length away.
With 7st. 91b. in the Villiers Haba-
shon looks like having a big say; his win
on Saturday has caused him to firm con-
siderably.
Resource did not shape like a Summer
Cup horse in the December Handicap, for
which he was favorite at 10 to 9. Though
never far away from the leaders, he showed
no dash at the finish, and was beaten by
both Speeclimaker and Orange Prince (each
5 to 1). The bookmakers have decided that
it wasn’t his true form, and his Summer
Cup price lias not shortened to any extent.
Speeclimaker is a four-year-old chestnut
gelding by Demosthenes, sire of Statesman,
out of Mai tine’s Daughter. He carried 21b.
above the minimum, as he will in the
Summer Cup, and he is now receiving sup-
port for that race, having shown that he
can stay.
The majority of backers were well repaid
by their journey to the pretty course on the
second day, as most of the winners were
solidly backed.
LEFT AT THE POST.
For Roschill on Saturday:—
Maiden Three-year-old Handicap: Loqua-
cious.
Corinthian ,Cup: Fool’s Paradise; next,
Giorgio.
Flying Handicap: Beckwith; next, Love-
box or Habashon.
December Handicap: Runnymede; next,
Lucy Thrice.
Parramatta Mile: Royal Sun; next, Love-
box or Leadight.
* * * *
The Sandown Park (Vic.) club hung up
£5OO for its Summer Handicap on Saturday,
and was well repaid for its enterprise. Jack
Holt’s gelding Cobranveil, who had scored
so easily at the Valley, was favorite, but
ran badly, and the stewards suspended his
jockey, Hynes, for a month for disobeying
Holt’s instructions. Tookarby (11 to 2)
looked a likely winner at the distance; how-
ever, King’s Consort (8 to 1) cut the old
chap down, and finished a neck to the good,
the grey Sacedon (7 to 1) being third.
King’s Consort is a brown mare by Comedy
King from Amoureuse; she is owned and
trained by Bob Ferguson.
Jumping away smartly from the machine,
Maurice Coppel’s Claro gelding Claronga
(5 to 2) scored his third successive victory
in the Sandown Plate. He hung out and
slightly interfered with Galita (7 to 1), and
there was a protest which was dismissed.
One of the old school in Chris. Moore had
a success in the Purse with his Burrabadeen
gelding. The Cretan (12 to 1), who downed
a hot favorite in Donalbain (9 to 4). An-
other old-timer. Jack Brewer, was also repre-
sented by a long-priced winner, the young-
ster Yantara (15 to 1), who hung on well
when tackled by S. A. “Rawdon’s” Phocis (5
to 2). Yantara, a brown gelding by Devizes—
Miss Pendil, is trained for Brewer, great
rider over the battens in other days, by
Cecil Godby, and looks like turning out a
good horse.
:{«
“Jamwood” : Crystal Stream, a four-year-
old son of imported Sir Thomas —Rivose, is
a strong tip in the West for the Perth Cup,
in which he ran fourth last year with the
minimum weight—he has 7st. 61b. in the
race to be run on New Year’s Day. His
dam, Rivose, was the mare who dead-heated
with Eurythmic in the 1919 Perth Cup;
though unfashionably bred (her sire was a
steeplechaser) she was a remarkable com-
bination of grit and stamina. Eurythmic
could not shake her off, though he was a
nailing good three-year-old in at w.f.a. Cry-
stal Stream is trained on the beach at Fre-
mantle, where horses get wonderfully fit.
$ * * *
“Don Crew”: Bookmaker Bunger wqs a
fiver short, but he was a resourceful man.
“Come on,” he yelled to the crowd of wait-
ing punters. “I’ll pay Flash Alick.” A chap
with a nose like a buggy spoke got in first,
and Bunger paid him swiftly. Then Bungef
opened his shoulders and the tickets flew in
like homing pigeons. By the time they were
saddling up for the next race the last ticket
had been paid, and Bunger’s clerk turned
to him in grudging approval. “Cripos!” he
said. “How the blazes did you do it?” “Do
it!” echoed Bunger, wiping his heated brow.
“Well, yer don’t think 1 paid them mugs
20 shillings in the pound, do yer?”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: “Sam” Jacobs, of Adelaide,
having married young, has just celebrated a
golden wedding and received wide congratu-
lations, especially from S.A. Jockey Club,
of which he has been a committeeman for 26
years, and Tattersall’s Club, where he was
chairman for 25. He held the latter office
at the same time as the chairmanship of the
finance committee of the University—a re-
markable double. His special assets hre
perfectly-balanced temper and mind, so that
“Leave it to Sam Jacobs” is the accepted
way to settle any dispute in Adelaide among
either commercial men or sportsmen.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Norman Gillespie, of Melbourne, had a
curious streak of bad luck at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday night, when he was knocked
out by Jack Roberts, of Newcastle, in the
eighth round of a battle scheduled for 15
rounds. Gillespie (9st. 81 lb.) was well ahead
of Roberts (9st. 71b. 1 on points when he
dropped his hands and turned away'. Roberts
forthwith sent a heavy right to his opponent’s
unguarded solar plexus, and Gillespie was
counted out. He had mistaken the ringing
of a press telephone-bell at the ringside for
the bell marking the end of the round. At
the next Stadium swarry to overseas boxers
Norman won’t be asked to propose “The
Press.”
* * * *
Veterans (if not heroes) of innumerable
glove contests in Geo. Hyland (Bst. 13flbl)
and Dick Congress (9st. 2Jib.) were called
upon to keep the pot boiling at Melbourne
Stadium on Saturday night. Richard, whose
cranium is adorned by every mark known
to the profession, has done most of his
scrapping in a class higher than Hyland’s
and he always seemed to have the edge on
George. Both knew too many of the tricks
of the game to make the affair a real thriller,
but over the closing rounds the scrap was
earnest and quite entertaining. The verdict
for Congress, although quite in order, was
badly received by the meagre crowd.
The Ins and Outs
The Englishmen had their first taste of
holiday cricket —if the first Test be ignored
—when they tackled a combined Queensland
country team at Warwick, on the Darling
Downs, on Saturday in a two days’ match.
Queensland batted first for 129, Peachey scor-
ing 38 and McCombe 26. Freeman went
through the remainder of the side, only
Steinohrt (23 n. 0.) making any resistance.
The Kent bowler took 8 for 32. England
totalled 510, Hammond making 110 in a
little over an hour. Tyldesley (115) and
Sutcliffe (77) were the other leading scorers.
Queensland lost 1 for 87 in their second
knock.
* * ■ * *
“Old Q.”: The Sydney press had bad luck
in its endeavors to disparage the Brisbane
Test. The wicket confounded the prophets
by playing well, and the Englishmen, who
were to have been insulted at being asked
to play on a showground arena, too evi-
dently appreciated it to the full. One
journal sought refuge in pointing out the
difference in the cash takings for the Bris-
bane match and the corresponding first match
in Sydney in 1924. Its troubles about the
benefit which Australian cricket generally
may derive from the impetus given to the
game by a Test in Queensland.
* sjt * *
“Bowen Park”: It wasn’t only the swal-
lows that threatened the well-being of that
Brisbane cricket pitch (B. 5/12/’2B) ; the
sparrows were even worse. They came along
when the pitch had dried and took dust baths
in the water-softened top soil before it was
rolled. They made holes as large as a saucer
and a couple of inches deep, and these had
to be filled up continually. However, all
went well, though the groundmen had an
anxious time. They are thankful, too, they
had only to deal with swallows and sparrows
—it might have been pelicans and emus.
* * $ *
“Guff” : When the N.S.W. Rugby League
was recently prised loose from the Sydney
Cricket Ground it told all and sundry that it
had been a fairy godmother to the trustees,
having saved the Trust from bankruptcy
on many occasions. A report submitted by
the latter to Parliament the other day
showed that during its ten years’ lease of the
ground the League pouched £162,000, and
the trustees got £14,500. Cleaning up after
the League matches cost £5OO a season,
which the Trust had to pay, so the League
connection wasn’t quite as gilt-edged as it
was cracked up to be.
* * * *
“Mid On” : The old argument as to whether
a bowler is justified in using artificial aids
to increase spin cropped up at Parkes
(N.S.W.) the other day, when a bowler was
challenged for wearing sticking-plaster on
the first finger of his bowling hand. The
same trouble occurred in Maoriland a couple
of seasons ago, when an English professional
was called to order. It. is not so long, either,
since an English captain objected to Mailey’s
practice of carrying resin in his trouser
pockets to enable him to get a closer grip
on the ball. There is no rule against such
practices, but the umpire has wide powers
to deal with these and other tricks at his
discretion. They are utterly opposed to the
spirit of the game, but few seem to care a
hang about that, nowadays.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Practically every occupation
has been represented in the cricket field in
international matches, but I have never heard
of a politician in esse thus representing his
country. Perhaps the game is too strenu-
ous for the breed.
(Continued on page 41.)
THE SCAPEGOATS.
[For The Bulletin.]
When Test-match prospects Fortune stern
To blithering blazes dashes,
And dreams of winning Ashes turn
To crumbling dust and ashes;
When champs, from under alien skies
Have trimmed your local Hectors,
There’s quite a lot of solace lies
In cursing the selectors.
When England faced in twenty-one
Her cricketing afflictions
The land exuded malison
And rang with maledictions.
Perspiring Oval fans combined
With peers, and portly rectors
With curates pale and young, to find
Hard names for the selectors.
The hapless three were scarified
By fuming sports and shirty
Until the tale of players tried
Was something over thirty.
Alas! they failed to down the foe
In any of the sectors,
And nought remained except to throw
Half-bricks at the selectors.
No more, alack! where wickets fall
May you and I endeavor
To stem reverse. With bat and ball
We twain have done for ever.
Memories of when we played the game
Grow dim as dreamland spectres
When morning dawns—but, all the same,
We still can trounce selectors.
One walloping our lads have got.
To dodge another booting
We need a liver, livelier lot,
And that’s beyond disputing.
Come, brother, on the Hill we’ll sit,
Like gods beside their nectars.
And hurl, with every adverse hit,
Our bolts at the selectors.
N.s.w.
IFORD.


There
are more
Republics
in use
than
the trucks
of any
other
exclusive
truck
manufacturer
m
> * -**
<r
Cr;
iM
Ml
•,
/-
< i
~r~
S»gS
w«t
* r*-.
>•
,•
s£ : '~kwz.
,
....
mm
■
:
%
ass®*
/
xi.
2C
'JfcXf. .VsS; # :’\
X
if.'.*
ipll
taj?os
/•••
p^ip-^
ISSL
>f-
EW
•V..
\
• J
iv' S '
*©. /
V 1
K
ill
lAe
WORLD OVER
TrucKs Predominate
gdf
In Australia, America, Africa, India, in all countries where
country transport has reached a reasonable stage of
development, Republic Trucks are to be found in ever-
increasing numbers. There are more Republic Trucks in
use than those of any other exclusive truck manufacturer.
You cannot gainsay the judgment of the majority.
Republics are bought consistently, because they are not
bunt tor a year or two—they are designed to give lasting
service and unsurpassed performance. The hundreds and
thousands of owners who operate them know their
capacity. 1 hat is why Republics predominate; there is
no better argument for them. Satisfied users and repeat
orders are Republic s own permanent advertisement.
New South Wales:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
South Australia:
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Victoria:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
Western Australia:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
Queensland:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
New Zealand:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Factory Representatives: W. A. CROW L E, LTD., Crowle House, York Street, Sydney.


*
AUSTRALIAN
DIRT TRACK CHAMPIONSHIPS
SEMI-FINALS AND FINAL,
Class.
GOLDEN GAUNTLET.
Ist Div. Han’cap and B-Grade Champ.
DAVIES PARK SPEEDWAY
BRISBANE
SATURDAY NEXT
uiilil.i Mu s aaili
■
•»*
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station .
One Minute Wharves.
100 ROOMS.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
gdf
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
BOY’S BATS FOR XMAS
gd
AUTOGRAPHED BY
ALAN KIPPAX
Alan Kippax Autograph “G.P.5.,” 37/6
This bat is about l|in. shorter than
full size.
Cannon, Size 6 24/6
Stuart Surridge, Size 6 “College” 19/6
Stuart Surridge, Size 5 “College” 18/-
Demon Smiter, Size 6 15/6
Demon Smiter, Size 5 13/6
Demon Smiter, Size 4 11/6
Somerset, Size 6 10/6
Somerset, Size 5 9/6
Somerset, Size 4 8/6
All bats have spring handles with
rubber insertion. Postage paid.
N.S.W. SPORTS
STORE, LTD.,
11-13 MARTIN PLACE.
SYDNEY.
ALAN KIPPAX, Director.
The Ins and Outs
The first Test against the Englishmen in
Brisbane ended in an ignominious defeat for
Australia. Batting stolidly on in the second
knock, the Englishmen gradually wore down
the bowling until, after Chapman, Ilendren
and one or two others had indulged in a hit,
the innings was closed at 342 for 8 wickets,
Mead top-scoring with a tedious 72, and Jar-
dine carrying his bat for a meditative 60.
With 741 to get, Australia made a bad start
when player-writer Ponsford again suc-
cumbed to Larwood, to whom he had referred
earlier in the English team’s tour as a bowler
who was not of Test-match class.. During
the night, heavy rain soaked the wicket, and
on this, drying under a hot sun, left-hander
White was in his element next morning. By
lunch-time Australia had gone for 66,. Wood-
full. one of the opening pair, remaining un-
beaten with 30. Larwood took 2 wickets for
30, bringing his total for the match to 8
for 62, a great feat. Tate gathered 2 for
26, making 5 for 76 in the match. White,
who was not tried in the first Australian
knock, was unplayable in the second, taking
4 for T. Gregory, who had injured his knee,
and Kelleway, who was indisposed, did not
bat in Australia’s second innings. England
won by 675 runs.
There is no need for gloom over the hap-
pening, however. England collapsed in a Syd-
ney Test in 1887 for 45, and Joe Darlings
great side of 1902, which included Trumper,
Duff, Armstrong, Hill, Noble and other mighty
men, was dismissed at Birmingham for
36, and lost 2 for 46 in the follow on. The
spirit of snivelling defeatism which has
marked the more vociferous section of the
Australian press since the end of the Test
match is even more objectionable than the
blatant self-confidence displayed before its
commencement.
But, if the result of the Test staggered
Australian cricket followers, the team
selected to figure in the second match in
Sydney this week fairly stunned them. It
seemed almost inconceivable that the most
prominent failures of the first team should
again be given a chance to display their
ineptitude with bat and ball, but it has
been done. Thirteen players have been
chosen, and these include all those who took
part in the Brisbane debacle save the in-
capacitated Gregory. Oxenham has been
omitted, and Andrews, Blackie and Richard-
son have been included. Outside Grimmett
there is no bowler of Test-match quality in
the team with the doubtful exception of
Blackie, who has had a bad season so far.
Why the selectors, in view of the innocuous-
ness of the attack in Brisbane, left out
tried bowlers, such as Oxenham, Nothling
and Bettington, passes understanding. Scott
was presumably not available, and certainly
no other fast bowler in sight is worth con-
sideration. The final selection will, not be
made until the day before the match, in view,
no doubt, of the possibility of some of those
selected being compelled in the meantime to
enter an institution for the aged and infirm.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: .Cricketers the world over
will hear with regret that a recurrence of the
old knee trouble has definitely put Jack
Gregory out of big cricket. A junior player
before he left Australia with the A.1.F.,
Gregory got his chance with the Diggers’
team, and in three months was being
acclaimed as one of the best, all-rounders
playing. He was a notable example of the
wisdom of giving young aspirants a chance
in big cricket, wisdom that does not appear
to be included in the kit of the present Aus-
tralian selectors. But' his career was short-
ened by inconsiderate captains who over-
bowled him. Handled as Chapman is hand-
ling Larwood, he might have lasted another
10 years. In Sheffield Shield games the
big fellow has averaged 28.97 for 38
wickets. His batting average is 31.73, with
a highest score of 130. In the Tests, includ-
ing that at Brisbane, he has taken 70 wickets
for an average of 33.71. With the bat he
has averaged 34.85 for 30 innings, with a
highest score of 100.
He * :S *
The Sheffield Shield match between Vic-
toria and South Australia at Adelaide ended
in a first-innings win for the home team.
Victoria replied to South Australia’s big
start of 582 with 344, Onyons getting .116,
his first century in a Sheffield. Williams
bowled finely, ending up with 6 for 134.
Victoria’s second try produced 428, veteran
’keeper Ellis top-scoring with 119, his
first century in a Sheffield, also. Williams
took 5 for 192.
* * * *
“One Man, One Job” : If the big game in
Brisbane did nothing else, it gave added
prominence to the undesirability of the
player-writer. One of the objections to the
practice is that the necessity of seizing on
every moment unoccupied by cricket to write
reports and despatch cables puts a player
off his game. There is another aspect of the
matter which has been allowed to pass un-
noticed. This is that the gentlemen
are hired to play cricket in each match
by the Board of Control, which pays them
£3O each. It is not a fair thing that, hav-
ing been conveyed from their homes free of
charge and paid 30s. per day additional while
absent from home to play cricket, they should
waste their employers’ time in doing work
for other people, work which may have the
effect of preventing their proper performance
of the job they were originally engaged to
carry out.
* * * *
Lionel Tennyson, who, as captain of Eng-
land against the 1921 Australian Eleven,
achieved a greater fame, perhaps, than his
laureate grandfather, has become Lord Ten-
nyson in the place of his father, once Gov-
ernor-General of Australia. The new peer
will go. down in cricket history as the only
captain of England who openly confessed his
ignorance of the rules of the game. In the
fourth Test of that series at Manchester,
Tennyson closed England’s innings on the
first playing day, only to be informed by
Armstrong that he had made a mistake and
left it too late. The Australians went out
to field again, and the match was subse-
quently drawn. But for the error on Tenny-
son’s part, England would have won.
s|s * * *i*
“Shrewsbury”: Australia’s old friend J.
W. H. T. Douglas has been.deposed from
the captaincy of the Essex County club, a
position he has held since 1911. Johnny
was not warned, apparently, of the com-
mittee’s intentions, and he is considering the
question of withdrawing entirely from Essex
cricket. After all he is wise. England isn’t
Australia, where no one is ever pushed out
of a team, once he has shoved into it, until
he is carried out feet first.
*!* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: English papers are
reported to be “amazed” at the offer of a Mel-
bourne firm of a guinea for each four scored
by members of the Australian team in the
MISCALCULATED.
THE BLOKE: “Wot happened t’ yer other mong?”
THE COVE: “Dead, poor cow! Snapped at a flea ’n bit ’isself in ’arves.”
Tests, and £5 for sixers. Apparently it is
the gross insult to the finer feelings of pure
amateurs that impresses the critics ; this seems
to be their first knowledge of special guerdons
which have been quite the usual thing in Aus-
tralian cricket. Frank Iredale habitually
drew from Lassetters a prize for every 50
lie hit up, something extra for the century
and a pound for every run beyond that;
and he was only one out of many. As far
as is known the cricketers in every case
pocketed the insults. '
. - ...
Lansdowne : A dashing, inspiriting cap-
tain is a priceless asset to a touring team,
Australian or English; it looks as if Chap-
man will rank as England’s best skipper since
P. F. Warner. Gilligan was a keen enough
leader and a chivalrous opponent, but, except
as a fieldsman, he never justified his English
reputation in this country, or his selection
for such a post. One explanation is that he
was handicapped by an accident in -he
English summer of 24, but the fact remains
that he could neither collect wickets nor runs
in Test matches, although on at least two
occasions a “captain’s knock” on his part
might have altered the whole course of
cricket history. And Douglas, splendid all-
round cricketer as he was in his day, was
plodding and stodgy to a degree. Whether he
went in to bat or went on to bowl he gave
the impression of a man fighting a desperate
duel and conscious that he was up against a
formidable antagonist—no Rupert-of-the-
Rhine touch about Douglas. A skipper’s
example, even his outlook, is bound to
influence a team.
Racquet and Bawl
The finals of the Victorian tennis cham-
pionships in Melbourne on Saturday ended
in runaway victories for the N.S.W. players.
The Englishmen were eliminated early, save
Gregory, who reached the semi-finals to be
beaten by Crawford after a five-set go.
Hopman and Crawford fought out the final
of the singles, the latter winning 5-7, 6-2,
6-3, 6-4. The pair won the doubles from
their fellow Welshmen, Donohue and Dun-
lop, in three straight sets, while Miss Cox
beat Mrs. Harper in the women’s singles,
and with Mrs. Conway won the women’s
doubles from the South Australians, Miss le
Mesurier and Miss Mercer.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Australian Tennis Asso-
ciation considered Gerald Patterson’s report
on the Davis Cup tour in Melbourne last
w r eek, and announced that it was “a perfect
financial statement, which should serve as a
monument to his efficiency and energy.” The
loss on the tour was £934, and in the expen-
diture of £3163 the item “allowances £785”
stands out with all the brilliance of a pony
bookmaker at a Presbyterian Assembly. This
is the highest debit on the sheet, even
steamer, rail and hotel expenses falling short
of it. What were these allowances, any-
way? The maximum allowance to touring
athletes under the laws o'f the Amateur Fed-
eration is ss. per day.
!|C * * *
“Si Anu” : Some of the best tennis Singa-
pore has seen was provided when the two
Australian players, Misses Akhurst and
Bicker ton, dropped in on the island en route
from Europe. None of the local women
were equal to meeting the two champions,
so mixed fours were arranged for exhibi-
don purposes. However, the visitors offered
to play against a male pair, and an inter-
esting match against a Japanese, Matsukawa,
and a Chinese. Chua Choon Leong. was in-
terrupted by failing light, when the score
sto od at 6-5 in favor of the men. Whether
the European men could have put up a
team to beat the Australiennes was not
decided. Probably they could—there are
some brilliant players here.
Arthur (“Ruddy”) Gore, who has just
died at the age of 60. won the English tennis
championship in 1901, 1908 and 1909. He
had previously swept the board at most of
the Continental summer resorts, such as
D j nard and Trouville. A compact, ginger-
haired little man, of tremendous strength,
Lis overhead smashes startled some of them
at Wimb]edon as recently as two years ago.
when he appeared in a veterans’ event,
11
The Nineteenth Hole
_ “Harold Hardupp”: On the Sydney muni-
cipal links a golfer recently brought down a
swallow with a well-driven ball. The bird
was killed, whilst the ball, checked by the
impact, lay within two inches of the corpse
when the player came up. Such an
event must be a rare fluke, yet this player
asserts that this bird is the third he has
“shot” with a golf ball.
* * * *
“Backspin”: Hugh Ross, Q’laud station-
owner and member of the Council of the
Royal Melbourne Club, is one of Vic.’s most
remarkable golfers. Last season he cele-
brated his 70th year by recording 75’s on two
occasions and by breaking 80 on several
others. He makes quaint use of his baffy
and even when within 130 yards of the pin
calls for this medimval weapon. His unerr-
ing aim with it is ample justification for
his disdain of the iron.
* * * * .
“Hoylake”: Recent English exchanges
give a lot of space to the so-called artisans’
golf championship, which has nowadays
grown into an apnual event, and was this
year played at Sunningdale. Artisan golf—
workman’s golf would be a better name
for it, since it is not confined to skilled
workers—has become a recognised institution
in Britain, especially in the vicinity of the
big manufacturing towns, "where most pri-
vate clubs set aside certain hours of the
day when workers may use their courses
free of charge. Municipal courses also help
in the making of the artisan golfers, whose
ranks comprise all sorts and conditions of
men, from hod-carriers to policemen.
* * * *
“Colonel Damurize” : I note that one An-
coneus Hell has opened a shop in London to
cure obesity in females by the continuous
practice of certain golf strokes. The in-
genious Dell is, of course, an American, and
attracted much attention at the recent British
open championship by painting his clubs all
the colors of the rainbow, and thereby driv-
ing the other half of Scotland, where the
meeting was held, to drink. I wish him suc-
cess in his enterprise, if for no other reason
than that while associates are busy reducing
in his establishment they will be unable to
attempt the same process on the links.
sis * Sis Bis
“Amateur Pro.”: Befoi’e departing for
America, Kirkwood gave it as his opinion
that Australian golf had slipped back since
he first went to the United States some years
ago. Granting that to be so, not everyone
will agree with Kirkwood that the reason is
that Australians, unlike Americans, do not
“work” on the game, and so acquire a high
standard of proficiency. Heaven forbid that
we should follow the example of ruthless
and joyless efficiency which the American
has extended from his business to his games !
When a game has to be “worked at” like a
trade or a profession it ceases to be a game.
For the professional who has to make his
living by it, that attitude is all very well —
for the amateur, professing to play the game
for enjoyment, it is a paradox.
Sit * * Sfc
“Plover”: Our associates’ annual golf
tournament is quite an event, and up to the
last occasion we all thought our hon. sec.
a perfect dear. But he turned out a fright-
ful disappointment on the morning of our
second day’s play, and was quite alarming in
his manner. The semi-finalists were going
out, and, of course, had questions to ask
him. They had all gone when one came
back to where he was sitting holding his
head in both hands. “What are we to do
about the rabbit holes at the 12th?” she
said, referring, of course, to a possible
hazard. “Do?” he yelled, jumping to his
feet and throwing up his arms; “Why,
crawl down ’em, the blessed lot of you, and
please remember to keep on going.”
* * # *
W. F. R. Boyce, the new captain of the
Brisbane Golf Club, is one of a numerous
Queensland tribe who were first instructed
in the rudiments of the Royal and Blas-
phemous game at Charters Towers, where he
was then practising as a solicitor. One of a
type that takes naturally to games, he soon
qualified as a competent player, and when,
after a fortunate mining investment, he
decided to leave the Towers for the met-
ropolis, he cut a prominent figure in golfing
circles there. Clive Boyce, one of Queens-
land’s leading amateurs, is a son.
* * * *
“Smada”: Joe Kirkwood is a born show-
man. Even Bobby Jones is a mere amateur
in histrionics compared with Joe. Kirk-
wood’s trick-shots; such as swinging for
a mighty drive —to miss the ball and let it
dribble only a few inches; his amazing slices
and pulls that almost come back to the
tee; his taking the turf two inches behind
the ball and missing the hall altogether; his
burying a ball till only the top is visible and
sending it on its way with a brassey are
worthy of the best music-halls, and amuse-
ment is blended with knowledge when lie does
his real shots in slow motion, imitating all
and sundry from Bobby Jones to a nervous
associate. His patter is even better than
many of his shots, but his American accent
badly cuts up the fairways.
(Continued on next page.)


0
a
Bt*
W)SWIp
Mr. J. Holloway, who successfully • competed in
the Herald 4-Days’ Dependability Test, says:
“loused B.E.S. Plugs throughout the Test and
gained two awards. I was very pleased with
these plugs.” B.E.S. Australian-made Spark
Plugs. Obtainable all Garages. Price, 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
N.S. W. Representa five:
A. N. JOHNSON 154 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Chain s~Chains -- Chains - Chains
fg
Australian-made—better than Imported
Support Your Secondary Industries
Non-skid, hand-forged chains for a Ford to a
7-ton truck.
Chains for Collieries.
Chains for Brickyards.
Pit-cage chains.
Lashing chains.
Messenger and Steering-wheel chains.
Sling, Snigging, Plough and leading chains.
Roller and Conveyor chains of all descriptions.
Mooring and Ships’ Cable chains.
Made from best Staffordshire iron.
The only complete chain works in the Common-
wealth.
All chains tested to Lloyd’s standard and
certificates issued.
BLOOMERS CHAINS, LTD.,
BRISBANE.
* \
...........
World's Pigeon Championship.
Melbourne Gun Club, July 6, 1925.
Ist. W. BAULDERSTONE (S.A.).
3rd. “CALRQSSIE” (Vic.).
Both used
w. w.
GREENER
GUNS.
There is no better
Shooting Gun made.
Procurable from all GUN DEALERS.
Catalogues on Application.
Wholesale Representatives;
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.
405 Lonsdaie Street, MELBOURNE, C.l.
Car and Cycle
“Chevroford”: It had to happen. A fledg-
ling motorist in Melbourne bought a new
Buick, together with the usual pamphlet
instructing him to drain the oil from the
engine after 3000 miles. Shortly afterwards
the car began to develop unworthy symptoms,
duly diagnosed by the motor doctors as an
empty sump. It hadn’t occurred to the pur-
chaser that the oil should be replenished.
A philanthropic trader gave him a new
engine.
* * * *
“Garry”: The fine performance of a
British-built super-charged Alvis in winning
the recent big reliability competition in Syd-
ney should help to dispel the belief that the
benefits of super-charging are confined to
. racing cars. It all depends upon the degree
to which super-charging is carried. A super-
charger is a pump that pushes the mixture
of air and petrol into the cylinders. Without
a super-charger it is merely sucked in as the
piston descends, and when a high rate of
engine revs, is reached, say, 3500 r.p.m.. the
period for which the valve port is open is so
short, and the friction between port and mix-
ture so great, that much power is lost. For
racing purposes it doesn’t matter how much
petrol is used or what strains are put on
the engine, and the super-charger w'orks at
high pressure. For touring purposes a much
milder-actioned pump is fitted. Its action is
hardly felt until very high engine speed is
attained, but it considerably increases the
range of power available on all gears. Power
for power, a motor so equipped should be
easier on petrol in all-round touring than
one without a super-charger.
* * * a|c
“Ula”: When Dunlops organised the
first inter-State motor-car reliability trial
all kinds of threats were made by anti-
progressives. The diehards of one country
township threatened to stretch bullock-
chains across the Sydney-Melbourne track,
but nothing happened. Twenty-three cars
started on the 572-mile scrub-road run,
and 17 finished five days later, 30,000 spec-
tators cheering them in. Seven competitors
reached Melbourne without loss of points;
so a run-off from Melbourne to Ballarat
and back was decided on. Captain 11. Tar-
rant. in a 12-h.p. 2-cylinder Argyll, was
the winner. When I look at a picture of his
crude petrol-chariot I find it hard to believe
that it was the “daddy” of its time only 23
years ago.
* At * *
“Davies”: There is still room for an occa-
sional purple patch in Brisbane dirt-track
motor-cycle racing, in spite of the improve-
ments made in the course (B. 5/12/’2B).
The other day Frank Arthur came a sugar-
doodle in front of the grandstand, and was
carried off dead to the wide, while another
rider collected a broken collar-bone. As the
semi-finals of the Australian dirt-track cham-
pionship over a mile had to be ridden that
night, Arthur staggered out later to take
his turn, and just managed to qualify for the
final.
* * * *
“Whizz”: Motor-cyclists have been busy
breaking records in Europe of late. In Italy,
on the Monza track, Zachetti and Fumagalli,
'riding a 175-c.c. Miller-Balsamo, put up six
new sets of figures. Fifty kilometres were
covered at 117.847 m.p.h., 50 miles at
118.482 m.p.h-., 100 kilos at 118.655 m.p.h.,
and 100 miles at 110,790. The hour record
was 118.737 m.p.h., and that for two hours
118.041. In England, at Brooklands, Kayo
Don put up two new E-class records on a
Sunbeam, cutting out the 100 miles at the
rate of 115.95 m.p.h., and covering 116.46
miles in the hour.
❖ i[i % %
“Aileron”: Automatic rudder-control for
aeroplanes is the latest development of the
gyroscope. The gyroscope is revolved at high
speed, and its axis is aligned with the course
to be taken. A connection with the azimuth
ring of the gyroscope operates an air motor
controlling the rudder-bar, and every diver-
gence of the ’plane from its course is cor-
rected by the relative movements between the
azimuth ring and the aeroplane that ensue.
The invention, it is claimed, will remove all
the terrors of flying in fog or pitch darkness.
“0.H.V.” : It is only seven years since the
8-cyl. motor made its appearance in the
catalogues of manufacturers—mostly racing
models—but its beautifully smooth and even
running has made it very popular, and it
now engines cars by 23 American, 8 Eng-
lish and 19 European manufacturers. The
most, expensive of the American 8-cyl. cars
is the Cunningham, the touring model of
which is listed at 8500 dollars (a bit over
£1700). The cheapest are the Auburn and
Gardner, each 1295 dollars. The English
Lancliester 8-cyl. is the most expensive car
in the world of its class. Originally designed
for racing purposes, the 8-cyl. motor did not
fulfil expectations, but it is now coming back
into favor for speed purposes. At Mon-
tlhery, in France, recently an 8-cyl. Voisin
covered 100 miles at an average pace of 128
miles an hour.
Miscellaneous
“Bamboo”: The N.S.W. polo-players who
recently left Sydney for Honolulu with a
number of polo ponies have united with a
couple of American players, arid the com-
bined team will leave in January to play in
California. The side will take part in the
three big Californian tourneys at Santa Bar-
bara, Del Monte and San Mateo. It will
be the best-mounted team seen in California
for years, and its 50 ponies are all Aus-
tralians.
* * * *
“Splash”: According to the cables, the
International Swimming Federation has
endorsed the claim of Johnny Weissmuller
to have swum 220 yards in 2min. 9sec. The
previous best time, made by John himself, was
2min. 10 4-ssec., done in Chicago in 1927.
The best time by an Australian is Andrew
Charlton’s 2min. 23 4-sscc., made in Sydney
Domain baths in 1925. Takaislii, of Nippon,
bettered that last year by doing 2min. 17sec.
at Manly.
* * * *
Len Palmer, who put up something of a
record the other day by winning four fencing
championships in Sydney, is an all-rounder
in sport. His fencing triumphs were with
the foils, the epee, the sabre and the bayonet,
which comprise four widely different styles
in the noble art of sticking one’s fellow-
man and at the same time avoiding being
stuck by him. A Rugby Union forward, he
toured M.L. with the N.S.W. team of 1925,
which lost only two of its eleven matches.
In addition, he is a prominent yachtsman,
specialising in the ticklish job of topmast-
hand —otherwise “the monkey.”
* # * *
“Spike” : It has been found necessary in
regard to that proposed visit of the German
runner Dr. Peltzer (B. 5/12/’2B) to send a
formal request to the German Amateur Ath-
letic Association, and this has been done.
Neglect of this precaution when Peltzer was
invited on a previous occasion provoked the
German authorities to stand ou their dig-
nity, with the result that the champion half-
miler was told to stop at home or take wdiat
was ready for him. Both Peltzer and Cortz,
who won the English 100 two or three years
ago, will visit Sydney, Adelaide and Hobart,
and will probably go on to Maoriland.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: The proposal to have
Empire Games in Sydney in connection with
the formal opening of the Harbor Bridge
in 1931 is taking shape. The N.S.W.
Amateur Athletic Association has resolved
to hold a meeting in Sydney late in January
to consider the scheme, and invitations will
be sent to all N.S.W. bodies controlling
Olympic sports. Of course, the good
old Government milch cow hasn’t been over-
looked in the rush; it is to be “approached”
for a subsidy, and a request that it will
officially bite the ears of other Dominion
Governments in the good cause. Shipping
cos. are to be asked for rebates of fares,
and various other methods of ensuring a big
gate are being considered.
J. C. WHITE, the English slow bowler,
whose left-hand deliveries completed
the rout of the Australian batsmen in
the Brisbane Test match.
“Straight Wood”: The trouble over the
standard bowl continues to rear its wooden
head. The N.S.W. authorities have been
notified by the Australian body that owing
to an error all bowls tested last year,
some 5000 in number, were incorrectly rated,
and should be returned for re-testing. It
was also stated that a new standard bowl
would be forwarded, to which all N.S.W.
bowls would be expected to measure up. All
the same, a good many bowlers will go
on their usual way, and their “readjusted”
bowls will soon reassume the characteristics
that endear them to their owners. It is won-
derful what a lot of readjustment can be
cdrrected with elbow-grease and some pieces
of broken glass.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The death-wail of the tin
hare in Victoria was faintly echoed in Mel-
bourne the other day when the balance-sheet
of the Victorian Electric Coursing Associa-
tion showed a loss of £3317 on the first 10
months’ operations, even though the man-
agement, as it points out, desperately tried
to retrieve the situation with pedestrianism
and goat-racing. As a last resort, the asso-
ciation is to try its hand at live-hare racing,
and has already installed a number of hares
ALEX. FINLAY, the Victorian motor-
cyclist, who has put up some remarkable
records on the roads of late.
at the White City track at Tottenham.
Whether the Melbourne conscience will
stomach this form of hare murder remains
to be seen, but a community in which pigeon-
shooting flourishes should not be too queasy
in such matters.
tit <* * *
“Slide” : The annual regatta of the N.S.W.
Rowing Association will be held on the Par-
ramatta on December 22, the big event being
the eight-oared championship of the State
for the Deloitte Cup. The race will be
rowed over the full championship course of
3 miles 1(57 yards, and only three crews are
expected to turn out —Mosman (the holders),
Haberfield and Sydney. The State sculls will
see Olympic champion Bobby Pearce defend-
ing his title against the Maoriland amateur
A. Jackson, of Wanganui. The latter has
cleaned up every other amateur in Maori-
land, and his trainer, one-time profes-
sional world’s champion W. Webb, thinks
him a world-beater; so the race should be
out of the ordinary.
❖ # ♦ *
“Don Crew”: The hazard spieler is well
equipped. Take the “Derwent” box for a
start. It has a ridge on its inner .lip which
trips the dice at the critical moment. Then
there is the “slithery” box, which is treated
inside with chalk so that the dice will slide
out without turning. The “top-sider” isn't
a bad box either, as a shaker can get a view
of the dice; and the “railway” takes some
beating. In regard to the dice, there are
“puzzlers” which throw Certain mains,
“highs and lows,” “fins arid deuces,” “call
backs” and “dispatches.” All are as deadly
as Mead’s batting.
* ‘ * *
“Hamilton”: Queensland is to be repre-
sented, after all, in the race for the 16ft.
championship of Australia, to be sailed on
the Swan River early in January. The
Northerners have just completed a series of
sailing tests to choose a representative, and
Victor 11., a new boat this season, turned out
to be the pea, winning all three test races
right off the reel. The Brisbaneites think
her the fastest thing of her rating to ever
take the water in Brisbane, and that is
saying something.
* => * *
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union
has been compelled to abandon its scheme for
an international Rugby carnival in Sydney
in 1930, when the British team will be play-
ing in Australia. .Maoriland and South
Africa had been invited to join in, and while
no reply has yet been received from the
Springboks, the All Blacks have declined on
the ground that they will have had enough
football for the season by the time the British
side has finished its tour of M.L. There
seems no reason, all the same, why they
should not have followed the Britons to Aus-
tralia for another game or two, not to men-
tion another shy at the ’Boks.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Haybaud”: There is money in stamp col-
lecting (B. 28/11./’2B). About 26 years ago
the Commonwealth Government issued a
brown penny duty stamp. The issue was
soon cancelled, and a stamp shark, getting
the tip, bought up all we had left about to
worth. In a Sydney shop window I have
seen them priced at 2s. 6d. a time.
* * * *
“Bill Ding” : At the instance of the Fed-
eral Arbitration Court, the Westralian
timber workers have taken a ballot on the
question of short time for all hands or full
time for some and unemployment for others.
The full-timers won. So a fairly large mill
at Mornington has closed down, and 150
men are moving towards Premier Collier s
doorstep for work or alms.
* * * *
“Frescott”: While a shipment of walnut
logs was being loaded at Cairns (N.Q.) for
the IJ.S.A. a sling broke and a log valued at
£2O took water. The Harbor Board, in a
fruitless endeavor to find it, employed a
dredge and a diver for the best part of a week.
Then it offered a reward of a fiver for re-
covery of the article —and a fisherman
retrieved it in a couple of hours with a
10ft. bamboo rod, five yards from where it
had gone overboard.
* * * *
“Buzfuz, Jr.” : In an English case it has
been decided that a £5-note is legal tender
for sales above £5, though not below it. The
trouble arose over the purchase of a brooch
for £5 ; the jeweller, not liking the look of
the fiver offered, refused it on the ground
that it was not legal tender. The customer
thereupon requested that the pin be tightened,
and added the recognised charge of a penny.
The jeweller still refused to take the note,
and fell in accordingly.
3|c * *
“Ula”: “Borom,” discussing the utilisa-
tion of refuse (B. 7/11/’2B), made no men-
tion of the most valuable stuff consigned to
rubbish-tips—metal tooth-paste tubes and
the like. Attention was drawn to this waste
in Melbourne a short time ago, and a col-
lecting campaign was started, but it soon
collapsed. Yet the metal thrown away is
more useful than empty bottles, which are
carefully preserved. Germany bought up thou-
sands of tons of it before the war, to return
it with a whiz.
# * . # *
“Adelaide”: The wattle-bark industry in
the hills near Adelaide has had a set-back;
one of the biggest buyers has reduced the
price from £7 10s. .per ton to £6 10s., and
there may be a further drop. It is appa-
rently the old story of importations fi'om
South Africa, which imported the seed from
Australia in the first place. The S.A. Water-
works Department grows wattle extensively
on its numerous reservoir reserves, and other
producers are clingitig to the hope that Gov-
ernment action may improve the position.
ij: * * ❖
“Wart”: Tas. Senator Sampson is back
from Canada with the report that at the
Canadian International Exhibition, visited
by something like 3,000,000 people, the
Empire Marketing Board had a huge pavilion
housing excellent exhibits from every
Dominion except Australia. The Australian
section looked like the window of a sub-
urban grocer who deals mostly in tinned
stuff; there wasn’t even a fleece on view.
Sampson could not find out whether the Aus-
tralian representative on the Empire Market-
ing Board or someone at Australia House
was responsible.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Dr. J. Henke, a Swiss scientist,
has been looking at Yallourn, and considers
that the brown-coal deposits of Victoria are
superior to those of Germany, where the
moist fuel is regarded as one of the Father-
land’s most valuable natural resources.
The thickest German seams are only 300
feet; those in Vic. go down at least 1000
feet. Moreover, the overburden at Yallourn
is only one cubic foot of soil to three of
coal, which is about the reverse of that in
Germany. Our stuff is damper, but the
hotter climate makes up for that. While
Australia lets the by-products of its coal go
up in smoke, in Germany distillation pro-
vides a dozen commodities, from paraffin wax
to benzine. Dr. Henke drives his car on
motor spirit made from brown coal.
At -4s * *
“Elgar”: “What fools these toffs are!”
said my fruitgrowing friend. He had been
hawking apples round Kew (Vic.) at 7s. and
Bs. the case. As he was coming out of a
villa where they had refused a case of Rome
Beauties at Bs. a Chinaman pulled up his
waggon alongside. “Whaffor?” John said.
“My customer.” The situation was explained.
“How much?” the heathen asked. “Eight
shillings.” “Me get twelve shillin’; you
see.” John went inside with an assort-
ment of fruit and vegetables, returned and
took in the rejected case. When he came
back he handed my friend Bs., made an entry
in his notebook that Mrs. T. Payment owed
12s. for apples and something else for vege-
tables. and adjured the grower to keep away
from that house in future.


BRITISH
K§M
BRITISH
BALL & ROLLER
BEARINGS
RANSOME & MARLES BEARING CO., LTD. (ENG-
LAND), has always produced only one quality
bearing—the best.
These British Bearings are used by more than 80%
of British Motor-Car Manufacturers.
R. & M. Ball and Roller Bearings are made of the
finest materials obtainable, with the same care and
precision as the works of a fine watch, and are guar-
anteed against defects in material and workmanship.
Made in 300 types and over 2000 sizes to fit British,
American and Continental Cars.
Exclusive Commonwealth Agents and
Distributors ;
GARDNER,WAERNB CO.PTY.LTD.
MELBOURNE: 481 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: Hunter Street West.
South Australian Agents: ADELAIDE HARD-
WARE CO., LTD., Flinders St., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: W. & C. GENDERS PTY.,
LTD., Hobart and Launceston.
Queensland Agents: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO.,
LTD., Brisbane and Townsville.
West Australian Agents: ( Automotive )
COVENTRY MOTOR CO., LTD., Perth.
Im
mmM'
:
■ v V
s m
■
53
\3ca/ &'u / ttAA
PRESENTS FOR ALL SMOKERS
Sect#
&
TORINO PlPES —London-made of the finest 1 00-year old Italian
Briar Root, in all shapes. Mounted in gold or silver. Bowls
warranted not to burn out. Special gift sets.
Silver-mounted, 7/6 each.
Gold-mounted, 12/6 each.
15/- in case.
18/9 in case.
27/6 case of two.
37/6 case of two.
Add 6d. for postage.
tm
m
m
dfg
ARMY AND NAVY CIGARETTES —MiId, cool and fragrant, in
neat red and gold packages.
20 cigarettes, 1/6.
Box of 50, 3/9.
Box of 100, 7/6.
For postal delivery, add 6d. per 100 cigarettes.
CLUB REIL CIGARS —Fine Havana leaf, rich and mild of flavor.
Box of 10, 5/6; posted, 67-
Box of 50, 23/-; posted, 23/9
Box of 25, 12/-; posted, 12/6
Box of 100, 45/-; posted, 46/-
Write for complete illustrated price list of Tobaccos, Cigars, Cigarettes, Plum
Razors, Strops, etc.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney
All-British
i\.e y
” AND
CARTRIDGES
Your Shooting will be consistently good if you
always use the Scientifically-tested, Hard-hitting,
Long-range, Low-recoil ELEY AND KYNOCH
ALL-BRITISH CARTRIDGES.
They Kill where
others fail.
287
&
m
9
mmmwm.
GRAiJDlltlil
smokeOß. jr*
' iffi
is BJAm&M&M


Under
Royal
Warrant
df
To H.M.
GeorgeV
Vintage 1920. (
CHAMPAGNE <
Australasian Aganta—
Swift & Company Limited
CHAMPAGNE
CharteHeidsitffc
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
' " in an pastern Setting
r JTIE exotic decorations make the Ball-
room and Palm Court ideal for the
formal or the intimately informal gathering
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday.
Dinner .... 12/6 Supper .... 8/6
Saturday—Late Night.
Dinner .... 21/- Supper .... 12/6
Luncheon a la carte Daily.
Afternoon Tea, 3/6 Saturday, 4/-
Monday afternoon and evening
reserved for Bridge.
Miss Frances
Scully’s Gorgeous
Egyptian Ballet.
Egyptian Music.
Fo r tune Teller.
FOR RESERVATIONS RING 8W1361.
<23
cen/ne of Queen s /on c/s
*' cf/s fingutshecf Soc/o/ Life.
WM
gdf
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room; Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s , Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SILK
GLOVES
The King’s serious illness has drawn Syd-
ney closer to Buckingham Talace than per-
haps ever before. The toast of “The King”
at every party last week was given with an
emphasis that made eyes blink on a sudden
rush of emotion. Never in this Letter’s
memory have theatre audiences stood so still
and erect during the Anthem. A hundred
stories about the Sovereign’s endearing
human-ness are being recalled. One Sydney
woman who was working in London
during the war relates that one day when
she was on duty in the canteen kitchen his
Majesty paid an informal call. Just as he
entered the kitchen a batch of pies was
taken from the oven and spread on the table.
“Pastry!” said the King, his eyes gleaming.
“How delicious!” And then, “Plow lucky
they are who are going to eat it—it’s been
on the forbidden list for me for a long time.”
So no matter liow many pheasants he shoots
there’s never any game-pie for him.
“From the awning to the yawning” gaily
writes Wyndham Lewis of some London
party. There was no yawning about the
party on the Orford last week, but the awn-
ing struck a note of opulence even for the
Orient company. It started where the wharf
was enclosed for a cloak-room; it continued
in the form of the company’s flags, roofing
and enclosing the sides of the long gangway
that led to the numerous decks —amazing
decks that stretched long and wide and blaz-
ing white under the high-powered electrics.
There was the usual penetrating smell of
sheep as the taxi hit the wharf entrance,
which served as a reminder that every one
of the vast crowd surging up the gangway
had been shorn of a guinea for the organisers
to hand to the Australian Mothercraft Asso-
ciation and Furlough House, the two chari-
ties involved. Twelve hundred at least clam-
bered aboard, matrons and flappers and
sheiks and shipping magnates and who not.
One ancient mariner reckoned that if you
placed ’em all end on end they’d reach from
here to Calais. The dressing was as mixed
as a mayonnaise. There were ladies whose
raiment of the thick and handsome had been
designed to keep in the heat, and there were
other ladies whose dresses were frankly cut
to let in the cold; and it was one of the
former who remarked that on e of the latter
was a bit hot, she herself being upholstered
in a plush design suitable for saddlebags.
Upstairs and downstairs the people gam-
bolled. Some went by lift; others followed
the directions of the stewards stationed at
every landing, who all night long made the
one cry to the ascending and descending—“To
tlie left.”
There was a wealth of flowers. Roses were
massed and banked on every table in the
cheerful white dining-room ; vases of them in
the staterooms, clusters of them in the midst
of the marzipan and the fruit cup of the
deck buffets. An amiable blue-eyed lamb with
a manner that must eventually land him
among the shipping princes had the job of
guide to wandering presswomen (his name,
appropriately enough, was Trotter). His
personally-conducted tours led through
lounges about which the signs of the Zodiac
were scrolled in gold on blue panels: through
a cafe whose plate-glass sides looked over
the vast heaving deep, and whose furnishings
are in the Chinese fashion; through card-
rooms and smoking-rooms and the long annex
that finally emerges above the swimming-
pool. From the height of deck C this looked
as though its location was deck Z. It is
tiled, and the water, five feet of it, is drawn
in and out continuously.
Humans being gregarious animals, every-
body danced in the crowded confusion of the
top deck, while the second deck, where the
music sounded even better, was ignored.
Lady Street, the president of the huge com-
mittee, was unable, through illness, to be on
any deck but Mrs. Arthur Allen stood up
to the God Save” in greeting Lieutenant-
Governor Cullen; she wore black chiffons,
about which floated winged sleeves and royal
blue panels. The secretaries of the success were
Mrs. J. C. Leete. Mrs. Ken Austin and Mrs.
D. E. Giles. T. W. Bremner and L Y.
Waterhouse kept count of the guineas. 'The
glitter of lame, the richness of ermine and
chinchilla and the iridescence of bead
embroideries were woven in the dancing
frieze. Sequins were spread thickly like gold
and silver scales on the newest frocks;
these all had a growing-downward tendency.
Ailsa Cullen, who came with the Laeutenant-
Governor, wore black lace whose hem was
uneven in the best manner. Mrs. J. C. Leete
and Mrs. Ken Austin supported Commander
Owens in the receptions act, Mrs. Austin’s
black and white chiffons electric with dia-
mente. The bigwigs of the Orient Company,
the Austin Andersons, were among the night’s
Who’s W T ho, she in white chiffons sprayed
with crystal; other shipping headlights
were Orient’s Australian general man-
ager, D. L. Dowdell, and W. Andrews.
The fair Mrs. Morshead came in black
lace with her colonel; Marcia and Mar-
garet Allen aired the palest of [link
and white chiffons respectively ;• one of the
prettiest gold frocks was worn by Morna
MacCormick; and Mrs. Pat Levy was look-
ing like an orchid in green and silver.
Twilight-blue georgette and a gold shawl
made harmony in Mrs. George Macarthur
Onslow’s raiment; with her came daughter
Faith. The Brigadier-General Gordon Ben-
netts were among the ascending and descend-
ing. Linda Maguey and Jean Anderson were
two youthful exponents of black lace; Rear-
Admiral Hyde made one of the thousand,
and an outstanding figure was Mrs. George
Vivers, her blonde good looks in a de luxe
binding of white and gold.
Minister for Works and Railways Butten-
shaw kept the press photographers busy on
Saturday afternoon by staging his wedding
at St. Thomas’s, in North Sydney. Pink
roses and blue hydrangea decked the chancel
steps and the aisle up which his bride, Clare
Sugars, walked to meet him in her pale pink
georgette ensemble and droopy pink hat. The
one bridesmaid was Pat Vine-Hall, who
officiated in tiers of pink frills and a sheaf
of pink roses and delphiniums. It was Mr.
Buttenshaw’s second date with Hymen, and
his quiverful of girls and boys were front-
seaters at the ceremony. Miss Sugars, who
was a trainee of Ipswich hospital, in Queens-
land, and came originally from Bedfordshire
in England, is an extremely popular member
of the A.T.N.A. Old family friends in the
Vine-Halls were in charge of the reception
which followed in St. Thomas’s Memorial
Hall; a model of the North Shore Bridge
spanned the pink wedding cake 1 .
Pretty Henriette Segaert, daughter of the
Consul-General for Belgium, is carrying
about a left hand so illuminated that it
does something in the direction, of a brighter
Sydney. The diamonds were slipped into
place last week by Andre Brenac, of Sydney,
son of P. N. Brenac, of Mazamet, France.
Henriette is a clever amateur actress, a
gifted housewife, and has one of the gayest
and happiest smiles in Sydney.
Leslie Walford, who died last week after
a long illness, had been a prominent figure
in the sporting life of Sydney for the past 40
years. He was' a remarkably good pigeon-
shot (at his death he was vice-president of
the N.S.W. Gun Club), and on his first visit
to Monte Carlo he had the distinction of
being placed on the 30 yards mark—some-
thing like being given a plus-four handicap
at St. Andrew’s, according to devotees. He
married one of the Hordern girls, but there
was a divorce. Then, after many years, the
Alexander sisters burst on Sydney from the
remote bush; he espoused one and solicitor
Charles Jaques the other. Walford leaves a
daughter by his first marriage and an infant
son by the second.
The girl with the sweet smile in this May
Moore picture is Queenslander Clare Fother-
gill. Last
Saturday her
fluent and vig-
orous voice
filled the
Ki n g’s Hall
with all ' the
arias dramatic
sopranos revel
in, and many
of a more ten-
der and less
harrowing
nature. “Rit-
orna Vincitor”
made a bril-
liant climax to
a recital which
c o m m e need
with Weber
and plucked in
passing blos-
soms from
Grieg and Mas-
cagni. Her
mother and brother—he a rising young Bris-
bane doctor —motored over from far Barchl-
dine to help with the applause.
None of the details that belong to the tra-
ditional naval wedding were missing when
Lieutenant Kenneth J. D’Arcy, R.N., of
.H.M.A.S. Anzac, and Isobel Lorraine Piesse
were spliced at St. James’s last week. Gal-
lant men-o’-warsmen, harnessed by white rib-
bons, drew the car containing bride and
’groom on its first stages from the church
steps, after the twain had passed in triumph
beneath an arch of flashing steel formed by
the quarter-deck navy and gold. Bishop
D’Arcy-Irvine, the bridegroom’s cousin,
helped by Padre Micklem, tied the knot.
Silver lace over shell-pink, suggestive of the
ingredients of some fairy atoll, formed the
wedding garment, which was enveloped by
a rosy cloud of tulle. White heather (for
luck and all the way from England) and pink
roses were carried by the bride, who was
given away by Commander Ringrose, of the
Anzac. Two brother-tars stood by the bride-
groom, and Rachel Salmon and Alison
Heales, of Melbourne, 'maided in a swirl of
pink georgette. Bride's mother, Mrs. Arnold
Piesse, of Katanning, W.A., did the subse-
quent honors at 52 Macleay-street, where
the rooms were cool and fragrant with del-
phiniums and hydrangea. Lieutenant D’Arcy
is the son of Vice-Admiral Judge D’Arcy, of
Taunton, England.
lima Murska Barnes, the girl in this
Judith Fletcher picture, gave the theatre
world of Sydney some fresh bones to gnaw
when she introduced it to “The Dybbuk.”
This is a clas-
sical play
based on Jew-
ish folk-lore:
it turns
upon the ex-
orcism from
the body of a
beautiful girl
of a disem-
bodied spirit
(the Dybbuk)
by a miracle-
working
Rabbi, whose
powers have
been developed
through the
mystical
Ohassidic cult.
“The Dybbuk”
has been pro-
duced by the
Yiddish Art
Theatre: the
Gate Theatre, Villiers-street, London, pro-
duces plays of the same quality. Miss Barnes
read the play, and was in turn every one of
the 19 characters in it. She has a rich and
varied speaking voice and fine dramatic
gifts. The Turret Theatre benefited by the
reading.
An old war-zone friend visiting Australia
is Miss Boulnois, who helped during four
years of war work to spread, tea-parties and
entertainments for the first batch of Aus-
tralian soldiers to arrive at Marseilles. The
first Church Army hut for the men at the
veterinary hospital near Calais was built
with the money which this lady collected.
After the war Miss Bulnois, who in peace-
time is an artist, acted as official lecturer
to the soldiers engaged in cleaning up the
battlefields. This traveller has journeyed in
Thibet, Central and South Africa, and the
unfrequented ways of India. Her Sydney
address is Clifford, Wylde-street. Potts Point,
and she shared with poetess Mary Gilmore
the guest-of-honor dais at the Feminist Club
last week.
The new wing of the Royal Hospital for
Women is a place of light and cheerfulness
and grace. Here are no long drab wards
of the sort that holds 50 or 60 beds. The
largest ward in the new building accommo-
dates only 12 patients. Every known gadget
and device for making the new Australian
citizen feel at home and happy that the
Stork has dropped him in this continent has
been fitted into the modern sister of the
oldest woman’s hospital in the State. The
wall basin for bathing the new-born and the
almost-inviting operating theatres that open
so conveniently off the wards were outstand-
ing innovations that caught the attention
of the visitors to the new hospital’s opening
last week. The old building for the future
will be concerned only with gynaecological
cases, while all obstetrics will be the care
of the new one. Minister-for-Health Arthur
declared that this institution was so com-
fortable it should be known as the Mothers’
Home. Last year nearly 9000 women were
treated by the hospital; of these nearly 5000
were in-patients. The cost of the up-to-date
wing is £llO,OOO. Of this the Government
pays £30,000, but even with the balance
hanging over them the hospital authorities
feel they can wish one another a merry
Christmas.
The small Australian subjects of Uncle
Sam, each carrying a book or a toy for a
less fortunate little girl or boy, foregathered
at the Civil Service Stores one afternoon last
week. This Christmas party was first
thought of four years ago by the members of
the American Women’s Circle; and each year
since the Kindergarten Union has benefited
by the pfferings of the juveniles of the U.S.A.
colony. Goodies and big bon-bons and a
talk by Consul-General Lawton (his wife
was hostess of the gathering) on the Repub-
lic’s flag were the serious business of the
day. When these were disposed of Bobbie
Perman, a youthful entertainer of three,
whose vocation seems the vaudeville stage,
sang “I Went to See My Darling” and other
old favorites in quite a convincing manner.
At the Feminist rally the other day Mary
Gilmore told of a poet in Peru who got
£7OOO for a poem. This fine Australian had
much to say in favor of our home-grown
writers, and, as usual, put in a good word,
with melodic illustrations, for the all-too-
little-known aboriginal tongue. Le Gay
Brereton’s poems and some of her own beau-
tiful prose filled the grey and overcast after-
noon with light and color.
Enid Bassetti Yeldham, of North Sydney,
is well known as a golfer; she plays amid
the cliamois-like lairs of Cammeray. Guests
who pursue the elusive ball about the same
North Shore fastness hied to her wedding
the other night armed with golf clubs. When
she emerged from St. Thomas’s Church the
bride of Reginald A. Clements, of Reading,
England, she and her new husband walked
under arched rafters of golf sticks. White
Chantilly over a froth of pink tulle en-
wrapped the principal lady, whose four atten-
dants, headed by Mrs. R. McKinlay, were
clothed in ethereal-blue georgettes topped by
pink crinoline hats. Doi’othy Cross, looking
like a rose petal in her pink chiffons, was
the flower maid in the procession. W.
Atkins best-manned. Bride's mother and
father spread the breakfast in the Warringah
Hall at Neutral Bay.
There’s a delightful little art show in the
eyrie of the Masonic Chambers in Castle-
reagh-street. Lining the walls of the Girls’
Secondary School Club are water-colors of
grace and imagination from the brush of
artist Tom Cross. With his brothers he
works a farm on the Brisbane River, and
when inspiration becomes too insistent he
pours out his tenderness for flowing water,
tender mists and greenly-growing trees. Will
Ashton must feel proud of this pupil, who
came to his studio as a just-demobbed young
soldier. The paintings are cheap, delight-
fully so; for six guineas, or less, you can
buy a happy picture all mist and morning
glory, or an evening meditation like a choir
of birds in song. Mrs. Albert Littlejohn
opened the show early in the week, and two
days later many pictures had been sold.
Word comes from London of the death of
Lady Alexander, wife of Brigadier General
Sir William Alexander, Conservative M.P.
for Central Glasgow. She left a baby son
about ten days old. Before her marriage
Lady Alexander was Beatrice Ritchie, a well-
known Parramatta girl.
Closely following on the unveiling in Lon-
don’s Church of Scotland of the tablet to
one of its late elders, F.-M. Earl Haig, came
the memorial service in this same St. Col-
umba’s to the Commonwealth’s sometime
Prime Minister and High Commissioner,
Andrew Fisher, who died at Hampstead. St.
Columba’s is a lasting example of ecclesias-
tical art. On the east wall, surrounded by
the lightnings, Jehovah, in red, reigns above
rainbows in a calm blue heaven, while the
seven angels, standing on clouds, sound hom-
age to Him through long gold trumpets. Be-
neath, in seven arched recesses, are bright
pictures of apostolic doings. Below is the
altar, bare and marbled as the great round
pillars rising in spectral beauty in the body
of the church, on which the light streams
through stained-glass windows. Andrew had
a good send off. Among the multitude behind
royal and official representatives were people
like Madame Ada Crossley and Canon Archi-
bald Davis, M.O. —last seen, also in Aussie
society, at Gallipoli. The service was by
Dr. Archibald Fleming, of St. Columba’s,
who was with Haig in France, and the Rev.
J. Chalmers Lyon, of Trinity Presbyterian
Church, Hampstead, in which cemetery that
morning the old Labor leader had been laid
to rest.
Hats off to the Donald Macdonalds, who
founded, and are still running, the Pyrmont
soup and relief fund. At the kitchen the
week-day service averages 300 men and
women and 110 children. On Sunday a
high tea is supplied to 200 men. During the
past six months 50,000 meals' have been
served, 48001 b. of dripping and brawn have
been distributed, and 612 beds have been
provided. A boys’ camp at Clovelly and a
kiddies’ picnic to Bronte were also managed
by the two good Samaritans who are devot-
ing their life and income to the service of
those who need it most. The present ambi-
tion of these two workers is to extend the
premises so that sleeping accommodation
may be provided for the homeless who call at
the kitcfien.
Bridge and mah jongg raged through two
floors of David Jones’ in the interests of the
T.B. soldier and sailor one day last week.
The private rooms were brimming over, and
some of the ladies arrived as early as half-
past one. Chief Commissioner John Gar-
lick’s. lady, a vice-president of the associa-
tion, was welcomed by Mr. R. C. Hagon,
who was the power behind the success (the
treasurer touched the century before stumps
were drawn). Surgeon McKelvey’s pretty
wife made one of her final appearances be-
fore her departure to Europe; the clever
Courtenay girls purveyed sweets they had
made, drawn and quartered; Mrs. George
Flannery brought sister Kathleen O’Donnell,
who had just stepped off the Oronsay that
morning; Jean and Mollie Marr and pretty
Dorothy Long were among the sweet-mer-
chants ; Mrs. Champneys was one of the
afternoon’s winners; and America showed
its sympathy by contributing Mrs. Lawton,
wife of the U.S. Consul-General.


a!7
M
m
*
ft
. ‘SK3S’’
--:< *
HOT only in the great cities, but in the more
remote districts as well, the popularity of
Sharwood Shoes for Men and Women grows
ever greater and greater. The reason is obvious
they are good to look at, because in cut and style they
express the last word of fashion, and they are good to
wear, materials being of the finest, and workmanship
being exceptionally thorough. For comfort and
fitting, too, they are unexcelled.
When next you need boots or shoes, ask for
Sharwood’s —wear them once and you 11 wear them
always. All better-class stores throughout Aus-
tralia will be pleased to submit the newest models
for your inspection.
Remember —the name is on every pair—be sure to
look for it! It is NOT a Sharwood unless it bears
this name!
gd
FAtLTLE//
FCCTWEAR
Jv>vd
=rf
y
n
i i
f< i
L.\
/C^-p
■
1
iJs
r'H-
OvT
i
—VO
VA'-
fAj
o-E-T
cS^
Communicate with the Sharwood Service Bureau, Abbotsford,
Melbourne, if you have any difficulty in procuring both men’s
and women’s shoes.


A Box of
wiiißii
For Marking Linen
Such a gift is most useful and welcome
to everybody. Cash’s Names are distinc-
tive and durable. Any name vyoven in
fast color.
“A Few Stitches and They’re on.”
IVTlLticunA'
Actual Size, Style No. 6
12 doz. 7/6, 6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz. 3/6
Sold by all Best Drapers
Order without delay
J. & J. Cash Australian Weaving Co. Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Melbourne
Girls’ smart bar design
All solid leather. Obtain-
able in three leathers/
Black Calf, Black
Patent and Tan calf.
PRICES
13/6
15/6
16/6
*xc mmali t
-» .Store* Ct«L.
fg
dfg
c lie
Write for Catalogue X
FOR LADIES AND CHILDREN
189 PITT ST 22 STRAND 105 KING ST
df
gd
fg
ft* Fine/t Inland GdF
Link/inAu/tralid
Are to be found at the
finest Country Hotel
in Australia the
Management—G. M. Lievain |
ROBERTSON
Inclusive Tariff, from £l/1/- per
day, and from £6/6/- per week.
Sydney Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street.
’Phone; 86491.
Melbourne
Chatter
Though the shops offer few original ideas
in the way of Christmas gifts for adults, the
toy departments are replete with new mar-
vels. In one store three floors are devoted
entirely to the young person. One of these
big spaces is fitted up as a zoo, with realistic
mechanical wild beasts arranged around the
room in wired-in cages—families of lions
and tigers, a fascinating chimpanzee, a
giraffe and so on. This menagerie is only
a side-line to lots of other moving things to
ride on, and there are slides and see-saws —a
regular child paradise. Many of this year’s
toys are of great size. There are Noah’s
Arks large enough for a baby’s cradle, and
the paired animals are on a commensurate
scale. The Noah family in this case has
changed its conventional prim apparel for
the dress of the Arab. There are dolls’
houses that are accurate models of modern
villas, and the china tea-set of bygone days
is magnified now into a full dinner-service,
complete with cutlery. Pianos are almost as
big as the smallest real ones, and motor-
cars and other vehicles are of generous
dimensions. Jointed dolls the size of a tod-
dling infant and dressed as the children of
the rich stretch out chubby hands covered
with kid gloves, which arc exact replicas of
the latest French samples. As for the Lenci
dolls, they are sufficiently lovely to cause this
Page to wish Santa Claus would pop one
in its stocking.
A friend in the Gay City writes that the
beret has taken possession of the millinery
mind, which seems unfortuYiate, as it suits
but few faces. This Basque peasant head-
dress, once priced at 3s. 6d., has soared into
the four and five guineas class. It is made
in all fabrics, but ermine is the choicest
wear. To be up-to-the-minute, anklets to
match the headgear should be worn over the
cobweb hose which fashion dictates.
These be stirring times in Melbourne,
what with bomb-slingers and burglars. In
a leading hotel the other night two pros-
perous-looking men sauntered into the
lounge, and presently were joined by the
manager, with whom they were acquainted.
One of the visitors extracted from his breast-
pocket a huge wad of notes, asking that the
boodle be put in the hotel safe. “I have an
idea,” he said, “that my place will be bombed
or broken into to-night.” His friend also
brought forth a roll and requested the same
favor, remarking, “We needn’t be afraid to
go along now.” “Oh, I made sure of that,”
said the other, producing a revolver, as he
stepped towards the street. And that night,
for once in a way, no burglaries or bombings
were reported.
At the Town Hall concert hall on Thurs-
day afternoon a bridge party to provide
Christmas cheer for St. Vincent’s Hospital
was exceptionally well attended. There
wasn’t room to jamb in another chair or
table. _ Lance Fairfax and other mummers
entertained the gathering, and the clever
13-year-old pianist Nancy Weir played some
of her own compositions. Mrs. Merson
Cooper, who is convalescent after a serious
illness, was president of the committee,
which included Mrs. James Alston, Marie
de Bavay, Mrs. George Bowcher, Mrs. J. J.
Daly, Mrs. T. J‘. Kane and Mrs. W. Rogers
Thomson. Mrs. Clarence Marriott, Mrs. W. M.
Robins, Mrs. McCallum Neil and Mrs. H. R.
Baird were some of those who looked after
the sales of wares. Mayoress Luxton, in
ensemble of fawn georgette and felt hat,
was present and received a posy of welcome.
Members of the Housewives’ Association
had a tea-drinking in the Botanic Gardens to
welcome home their senior v.-p., Mrs. J.
Downing, returned from an overseas trip. As
the president, Mrs. Andrew Glencross, goes
to Sydney in about a week’s time to censor
films, she took the opportunity of saying her
good-byes. Mrs. Percy Russell, just back
from England, who was present as a guest
and prospective member, gave the results of
an investigation made by herself and her
husband into the causes of the unpopularity
of Australian tinned fruits on the English
market. Want of attention to grading and
unattractive get-up were the principal rea-
sons alleged.
Geelong said good-bye to two well-liked
residents, Mrs. A. J. Cripps and Mrs. R.
L. Hickie, at the Town and Country Club,
the hostesses being Mrs. George Darby and
Mrs. E. H. Chapman. Among the guests
collected from near and far were Mrs. A. A.
Austin. Gertrude Grimwade, Mrs. Leslie
Sprague, Mrs. ,T. G. Laidlaw, Mrs. G. Hope,
Rose HarwOod and Miss Lascelles. The fol-
lowing evening the Misses Harwood, of
Comley Banks, gave a party for the depart-
ing ladies, bridge being the principal attrac-
tion.
Mrs. J. N. McNicol, carrying red roses of
a blend that matched her ensemble gown
and crinoline millinery, w y as co-hostess with
her daughter, Mrs. Frank Beavis, at the
Austral Salon tea-party of last week. Masses
of hydrangea, sunflowers and other blooms
gave atmosphere to the summery frock of
mother-of-pearl liued moire and georgette, and
the lace-adorned hat worn by Mrs. Beavis.
Musical offerings were on rather a high
plane, tenor Walter Ivirby heading the
singers, who also included liomola Hanstein,
Jessie Shmith and Victor Baxter.
Mrs. George Russell invited many to after-
noon tea at her Toorak home last week to
lay plans for a fete for the Lady Forster
Free Kindergarten, South Melbourne. Mrs.
Frank Derham and Miss J. McCormick
have undertaken secretarial jobs, and Mrs*.
Charles Derham will manage the finances.
A mannequin parade and a tennis tourna-
ment will be attractions.
The G.G. and Lady Stonehaven and
Mayoress Luxton were three of the 1800
people present at the R.V.1.8. concert at
St. Kilda Town Hall. The entertainment
was an acknowledgment of financial help
given by GO firms who had organised dances
during the year, and of aid rendered by those
who lent a hand with the Institute’s recent
fair. Forty-five blind children, with the
blind orchestra and a few outsiders, fur-
nished the programme. President J. L. Car-
negie in returning thanks said those present
had raised over £4OOO for the Institute. Mrs.
Jim Angus came in for special mention on
account of her organising efforts, which re-
sulted in sufficient funds being raised at
two fairs to allow the new hostel for blind
boys to be opened in March next free of
debt.
Works of Scandinavian composers formed
the programme of the Musical Society’s final
concert of the year, a trio for piano, ’cello
and violin, by F. Berwald, played by pianist
Rita Hope, Coral Trenerry and Edna Ilat-
tenbacn, being the most likeable offering.
Miss Hope joined fiddler Gertrude Healy in
a sonata by Emil Sjogren,* but even their
talents couldn’t make it sound comprehen-
sible. Eriksson was represented by settings
of four Shakspearean songs, including the
much-abused “Lover and His Lass”; Grace
Evans did her best with them, but they are
not very melodious. Mrs. Alexander Raff’s
fine pianistic ability was displayed in an
Italian suite by Peterson-Berger, the final
number of which was reminiscent of Chopin’s
way with a valse. “The Black Knight,” of
Soderman, was sung with vigor by baritone
Alexander Raff.
Falk here pictures Mrs. Maurice Patkin,
who, as president of the one-year-old Council
of Jewish Women, has reason to feel proud
of the progress made. The headquarters of
the C.J.W. is
a t Nicholas
Building i n
S w a u s t o 11-
street, and the
comfor table
club-room has
been furnished
almost entirely
b y donations
from business
firms. Rabbi
I. Brodie re-
cen 11 y per-
formed the
opening cere-
mony. M r s.'
Patkin is a
great worker
for the Alfred
Hospital, and
with Mrs. P.
H. Locke and
Mrs. Barry
Thomson was
largely responsible for the success of the
bridge party which added about £2OO to
this year’s Christmas entertainment fund.
As a vice-president of the late Women’s
Automobile Club. Mrs. Patkin took an active
part in its charitable efforts.
Many institutions and charities will receive
substantial Christmas cheques from the
Mayor’s fund this year, for he has £40,000
to scatter.
Even the energetic organiser, Mrs. W. M.
Robins, got a shock one morning last week
when two of the newspapers announced that
her afternoon fete at the Mint for the Queen
Victoria Hospital returned a profit of
£10,037. Some puzzled readers wondered if
toll had been taken of the Mint’s bullion.
But that wasn’t the explanation. An extra
cipher and crept in. When all returns were
made up the takings totalled £lloo—and the
expenses nil —a remarkably fine result.
Attendances at the inter-State tennis cham-
pionships at Kooyong courts were not large,
though the finals on Saturday were contested
in perfect weather. The dressing of the on-
lookers had no very striking features. Yel-
low hats and crimson competed in popularity,
and the Apache handkerchief was much
favored as a prophylactic against a sun-
burned neck. Very few parasols were un-
furled. The craze for lemon and primrose
shades invaded the courts, and tinged coats
and Lenglen head-bands. Miss M. Cox, who
defeated Mi's. Harper for the women’s
singles championship, looked charming with
a yellow hair-swathe and white silk frock.
That bearded Irish giant Conor O’Brien,
who dropped :n on us while sailing around
the world in his midget yacht the Saodiese
and proved himself a good fellow 7 , has, after
many escapes, been caught in the net of mat-
rimony. His marriage with Kathleen Chau-
sen, daughter of Sir George Chausen, was
celebrated at eight o’clock in the morning,
and without after-fuss they boarded the
little yacht at Falmouth for a honeymoon
trip.
Kathleen Rogers Thomson doesn’t claim
many inches, but there is nothing diminutive
about her
energy and
e n t h usiasin
when she
takes a hand
in running a
charity show.
Since her
mother became
acting - presi-
dent of the
G r o s v enor
Auxiliary of
St. Vincent’s
Hospital, Miss
Thomson has
been an able
lieutenant. It
was she who
prevailed upon
theatrical stars
to assist with
the big show
at the Town
Hall for this
institution, and she was one of the hon.
secs, of the recent Princess pageant for
the orchestra fund. The picture is by
Ruskin.
Doris, only daughter of the T. Sadler
Gills, of East Camberwell, last week became
Mrs. Alfred Fowler. She trailed a white and
gold brocade train from a white satin gown,
over which cascaded a veil of old rose point
lace a century and a half old. Primrose-
toned ninon frocks and leaf-green straw
hats, with which posies of Duchess of York
pansies harmonised, were worn by her two
maids. St. John’s, Toorak, was furbished up
with white lilies and golden blooms, and con-
gratulations were offered at No. 9.
Mary Frances, second daughter of A. A.
Buley, formerly headmaster of Grenville
College, Ballarat, and Mrs. Buley, who now
reside at Wattle Tree-road, East Malvern,
married on Saturday afternoon Osborn,
second son of the W. B. McCutcheons, of
Malvern. The knot-tying took place in the
beautiful Peace Memorial church erected
by the Methodist community at the close
of the Great War. The bridal raiment
of deep ivory satin was long of sleeve and
uneven of hem line, with yards of tulle of
the same tone as train and veil, and the
bride carried St. Joseph lilies. Helen Flem-
ing came over from N.'S.W. to be chief
’maid, being assisted by the- bride’s niece
Elizabeth Moran and Frances McCutcheon,
the bridegroom’s sister. The trio held sheafs
of yellow water-lilies against ninon frocks of
pale green topped by felt hats of corn color.
The after-rejoicings were at the Toorak
home of ME and Mrs. A. Leslie Moran, the
latter being the bride’s sister.
A cable from the other side of the world
announced last week that furs are being
dyed to match the wearers’ eyes; but that
is a mild vagary of fashion compared with
the latest fad. This is to have everything per-
taining to one’s bed of the same hue —sheets,
pillow-cases, blankets and, of course, nightie.
At the yearly summing-up of the V.W.C.M.
last week Mrs. Britomarte James was elected
president in place of Miss Gilman Jones
and the council was abolished, its functions
being assumed by the executive, membership
of which has been enlarged,
Attempts to work up interest in the polo
matches of next month ai’e on foot. The
public is admitted to the practices at Moonee
Valley racecourse on Tuesdays and Thurs-
days, and at the opening rally wielders of
the sticks included the Governor-General and
State Governor. Mrs. Russell Grimwade is
one of the trophy-givers.
Evelyn Scotney, who put back here with
her small son last week and is due to begin
a concert tour early in the New Year, is the
only Melba protegee who has reached Olym-
pian heights so far, though John Brownlee
is fast getting there. For three years she
played leading parts in grand opera with
Caruso at New York’s Metropolitan O. H.
She has been accompanied in London by Sir
Henry Wood’s orchestra; she was one of the
stars of the British National Opera Co., and
she was selected for the International Cele-
brity Concerts, a distinction which grouped
red with such virtuosos as Kreisler, Galli
Curci and Backliaus. Miss Scotney’s equip-
ment, in addition to a faultless and pleasing
voice, includes vivid personality, brains and a
knowledge of seven languages, four of which
she speaks fluently.
Mrs. E. A. Johns, of St. Ivilda, a tocal
authority on bridge, has returned after eight
months abroad, during which she acquired
a knowledge of the latest developments in
bridge science.
Kitty Reidy, who made a promising debut
here in musical comedy and comic opera,
is understudying Phyllis Dare in “The Yellow
Mask.” A lately-returned traveller who saw
both mummers in the leading role says
the Australian acted well, and vocally was
much superior to the English star 1 .
Pianist Edward Goll, of the Uni. Con.,
is planning a six months’ tour of Europe.
Mary Campbell, of the Albert-street Con.,
has chosen Honolulu for her vacation this
year, and will board the Niagara in Sydney
this week. She will stay with an ex-student
and Melba piot6g6e, Peggy Center that was,
now married and settled in the capital of
Hawaii.
The .T. W. Barrs, of Punt-road, South
Yarra, have come home wearing the air of
experienced travellers. Stepping ashore at
Java, they next took ship for Japan. America
was their next stopping-place, after which
they crossed the Atlantic and had a look at
rural England, winding up the tour with
an inspection of Continental Europe 1 .
Madame Malmb'erg, who came from Fin-
land to see the conditions under which her
fellow-countrymen work in Australia, spoke
about her nation at the Lyceum Club one
night last week. Among other things she
said Finland was the first country to give
women a say in its Parliament. The lady is
returning to her home pleased at the progress
being made on the land in Q’land by Finnish
settlers, and her next mission is to send out
to Bananaiand some girls of their own race
to marry the unattached Finns.
Marshall Sumner, a pupil of F. W. Home-
wood, of the Uni. Con., and winner of a
Percy Grainger scholarship, has graduated
at the Chicago College of Music 1 . He has
won many prizes, including a grand piano,
and was chosen as solo pianist for Grainger’s
bridal composition performed at Hollywood
Bowl.
The London mail brings news of Rupert
Atkinson and his wife. They are settled in
a flat at St. John’s Wood for six months.
Their sons Harry and Lionel are being
coached with a view to entering Cambridge
next year, and daughter Yvonne is established
at a smart school. It is the intention of the
Atkinsons to take up residence in the South
of France early in the new year.
The Evan Pearces have found a dwelling
at Myoora pending expiry of the lease of
their Toorak home. Having inspected
Europe and the Americas they have re-
turned satiated with travel. Mrs. Pearce
is a Bendigo girl, and her first call after
stepping ashore was on her father, Dr. Eadie,
in that city.
Kismet, which the late Sir Rupert built
near Sunbury for a country home —it was
lately occupied by the Reggie Clarkes —has
been leased by Jimmy Aldridge, who is in-
terested in the breeding of horses. His
experiments in the past have been conducted
at Richmond Park, near Adelaide, which
will in future be directed by a partner while
he tests the virtues of the Victorian climate.
Aldridge is a nephew of the popular hostess
of Kingsmill. who has many friends in this
city, and he brings with him a pretty bright-
eyed young wife.
Mabel Down, of Marine-parade, St. Kilda,
has had three of her songs for children
accepted for publication by Saville’s, of Lon-
don, who include them in a series published
for schools. They are printed on a double
sheet of strong paper, have an attractive
cover, and are retailed at 6d. Miss Down’s
contributions are “Kookaburra,” “Fairy
Slippers” and “How Do You Get to Fairy-
land?” words in each case by Sonia Hardie,
who is known to Bulletin readers".
Mr. and Mrs. P. Lucini are taking their
two daughters to Colombo during the six
weeks’ school holidays, and will sail by the
Oronsay on Boxing Day.
Mrs. Fred Dempster is rushing from Perth
to meet her mother and brother from Banana-
land, who propose to summer in Tasmania.
After their going she will collect daughter
Marjorie, whose final educational polish has
been applied in this city, and the pair will
return to the West.


V IMLO)l*
•Vvl
Ml
/
I
f
J
V
«
UM
C.
SRP
UK®
v
kU
'*3
<l-
-
k\
.*•»
*
V
<r
a/.
\M4to.
'H
I^l
m
&
V\
Climb down with them to a
shady glen —a billy of tea
delicious sandwiches!
The delight of the lunch spread on the soft carpet
of grass under a shady tree! Hand round the
sandwiches and be careful not to kick over the
cups of billy tea!
Cutting the sandwiches before setting out was
quick work. You chose from the variety of REX
Sandwich Delicacies in your pantry, and spreading
the tasty pastes on bread was a simple matter.
No necessity, either, to pile on an extravagant
thick layer to find a flavour.
Take REX Ham Pate, for example. It is pure
ham—delicious mild REX Ham in spreadable form.
Hence its true ham flavour and its great popularity
as a tasty sandwich spread.
It is also delicious for savouries and on buttered
fingers of toast.
In zy 2 oz. and 2oz. cans.
ITNS
REX
Ham Pate
Other REX Sandwich Delicacies*.
REX Luncheon Cheese, in 4oz. & 2oz. tins & porcelain jars
REX.PYE, in lib & %lb tins
REX Salmonelle, in glass jars
REX Veal and Tongue Pate
REX Devilled Ham
REX Ham and Tongue
REX Veal and Bacon
REX Anchovy Paste
REX Bloater Paste
/>
96
PURE
FOGG ITT JONE.S PTV. LTD
(Division of United Provisions Lhd.)
Curers of the Choice REX Hams
and Bacon.


Public Notices.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, etc., Insuring with any
Insurance Company Not Registered
in New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act 1909-1927.
persons, firms, companies and associ-
tions being owners, trustees or agents
tor any goodsj or property within the Sydney
f lre T District, and every other Fire District
II 1 the State of New South Wales to which
the Fire Brigades Act 1909-1927 has been
applied, in _ respect of which premiums are
paid to an insurance company not registered
in the State, are hereby notified that they
are required to send to the Board of Fire
Commissioners of New South Whies returns
showing the amount of such premiums paid
by them in respect of the said property to
such lnsurailce companies during the year
The time appointed for receipt of the re-
turns is on or before the 31st January,
subject to a penalty not exceeding £1 j
PC xT^T-, for every day of default.
NOTE. —Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly cliarge-
aWe in respect of the Fire Risk during
the time such property was in any Fire
District under the said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
213 Castlerengh Street,
26th November, 1928.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
Sydney.
NOTICE.
Return of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Tire Brigades Act 1909-1927.
ALk Insurance Companies, as defined by
the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required to send to the Board of
Fire Commissioners of New South Wales
returns showing the total amount of the
premiums received by or due to such Com-
panies in respect of risks against fire during
the year ending 31st December. 1928, within
the Sydney Fire District, and every other
hire District in the State of New South
Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act 1909-
1927 applies; less any part of such pre-
miums actually. paid by way of reinsurance
to any other insurance companies contri-
buting under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the re-
turns is on or before the 31st January, 1929 •
subject to a penalty not exceeding Five
Pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the under-
signed.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Sccrpts w
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
26th November, 1928. I
Legal Notice.
AN Action of Multiplepoinding and Exone-
ration has been raised in the Court of
session in Scotland (Second Division, Lord
Mackay Ordinary, Mr. Roxburgh, Clerk) at
“ e instance of Alexander Speedie, engineer,
II Highburgh Drive, Burnside, Rutherglen,
Glasgow, sole trustee and executor of Mrs.
Jeannie Garrick or Speedie, wife of John
Speedie, consulting engineer, “Airlie,” Len-
nox Road, Cardonald, Glasgow, Pursuer and
Raiser, against Mrs. Margaret Eliza-
beth Speedie or Bell, wife of and residing
with David Nelson Bell at Strathtay, Cupar
Road, Newburgh, Fife; the said Alexander
Speedie; Mrs. Barbara Speedie or Ross,
Masonic Cottage. Newburgh, Fife; Robert
Speedie, 15 Belgrave Road, Ilford, Essex;
Matthew Spence, c/o Speedie Brothers, Wal-
lace Street, Stirling; William Spence, Argyle j
Hotel, Tiealgo, New South Wales, Australia;
Robert Spence, High Street, Newburgh, Fife;
Isabella Speedie and Elizabeth Speedie,
Craigview, Abernethy; Mrs. Jessie Grieve
Garrick or Wishart, “Dunearn,” Townsend
Crescent, Kirkcaldy; Mrs. Ann Garrick or
Haggart, Greenburn, Milnathort, Kinross-
shire ; and Mrs. Barbara Gibson Garrick or
Lamg, Wellbrae, Falkland, Defenders.
In which Action Lord Mackay, Ordinary,
has been pleased to pronounce an Interlocutor
or Order in these terms:—
“19th October, 1928. Lord Mackay.
“Act. Patrick.
“The Lord Ordinary finds the Pursuer
and Real Raiser liable only in once and
single payment of the fund in medio:
Appoints the dependence of the action to be
advertised once in each of two successive
weeks in the Sydney Bulletin, Sydney, and
the Australasian, Melbourne, Australia
and of new appoints all persons churning
an interest in the said fund in medio to
lodge their condescendences and claims by
the Bth January, 1929.”
, (Sgd.) A. MORRICE MACKAY.
Of all which intimation is hereby given.
SCOTT & GLOVER, W.S.,
1 Hill Street, Edinburgh,
Agents for Pursuer and Real oxaiser.
22nd October, 1928.
SAFE with GUYATT'S !
dfg
The improved Guyatt
Elastic Truss is the latest
and most efficient Elastic
Truss on the market to-day.
It has been altered and
improved in several import-
ant points of construction,
until its strength, efficiency
and durability have been greatly increased. A careful
examination of this Truss will prove every claim
made for its advantage over others.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
GUY ATT & CO.,
Expert Makers of Surgical Appliances,
Dept. 8., 257 a George St., Sydney.
Opposite Bridge. Street.
am
0
000
GARTH
JOriES
/
One house outlasts many tents
>hat endless catastrophies may
threaten the building if the
tools used in its construction
are faulty even the slightest
fraction faulty? For the faults
will magnify and increase with the years!
What endless catastrophies may threa-
ten if the watch used for timing the
actions of a busy life is faulty! Even the
slightest fraction faulty! For the faults
will magnify and increase with the years!
Lost trains and broken appointments
are no foundation for a successful
career.
So it is that one comes inevitably to an
Omega Watch for safety, for accuracy. So
it is that one chooses an Omega Watch
to help in the building of a secure exis-
tence. So it is that one is satisfied with
nothing but an Omega Watch for long
and reliable service, for beauty of design
and finish.
”Exact time for life”
yn
59
A
S^J7
sA
D
as
ftiee/t /tone
Where can I buy beautiful china ?
In the shop that sells Shelley China, is the answer. A
Shelley Tea Set has the rare purity of colour that made
Staffordshire china world-famous. The Shelley Cups
of beautiful form-light,- thin, elegant, strong-are a
pleasure to use; and every hostess loves a Shelley set for
the modest splendour that it imparts to Afternoon Tea.
Ask to see the latest Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Dainty White China,
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel Lucie At twill and Hilda Cowham,
Shelley Domestic Ware, and Shelley Jelly Moulds—all British. In cast
of any difficulty in obtaining write to: — T. W. HEATH
& CO., LTD., i}t CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
CHINA
for the name Shelletf on each piece of China
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
OLD BACKS AND
JOINTS MADE YOUNG
From pain and weakness to healthy vigor
in quick time is the rule with Harrison’s
Pills, the signed remedy of a London doctor.
Nothing like Harrison’s Pills for rheuma-
tism, backache, painful urination, lost vitality
due to uric acid disorders, genito-urinary and
bladder troubles, or for aches and pains
generally. No matter how many things have
failed you, Harrison’s Pills should set you
right, for they remove the cause of the
trouble. One user says: “Never known such
quick relief. They soothe all the pain away,
and leave you entirely rejuvenated. Since
taking them I have felt years younger.'” If
YOU w’ant to feel and look 10 to 20 years
younger —quickly —get a package of Har-
rison’s Pills from the chemist’s to-day: 27-
Trial Size; 3/- Standard Size; and 5/- Large
Size. If not pleasantly surprised with re-
sults of the very first bottle— money back!
Amalgamated Laboratories, Kemblai Building,
Sydney, or any good Chemist.


Amusements.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE VAGABOND KING.
ROYAL:
MIS’ NELL O’ NEW ORLEANS.
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
TH EATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
A SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The Royale Syncopators Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
J c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT SONG.
ROYAL: INTERFERENCE.
ATHENAEUM THEATRE,
** MELBOURNE.
THE HILARIOUS COMEDY
THE FAMILY UPSTAIRS.
THREE ACTS OF LAUGHTER SPARKLING WITH
WITTY LINES.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
n MELBOURNE.
THE ACTRESS.
With NORMA SHEARER.
ALSO
PAINTED POST.
With Tom Mix.
jyjAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY.
MASTER PICTURES PRESENT
DOMESTIC TROUBLES.
Featuring
CLYDE COOK, LOUTSE FAZENDA and BETTY
BLYTHE.
How to be happy though married.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790
CITY FLATS. HYDE PARK.
’Phones, FL3061. ’Phones, 4 lines.
THE ST. JAMES,
Stanley Street, near Museum, off College
Street, Sydney.
DE LUXE FLATS AT POPULAR
PRICES
100 TWO-ROOMED FLATS, OWN BATH-
ROOM and KITCHEN.
Ideally suit two friends. Twin Beds if desired.
No charge Gas, Light, Hot Water, Ice, Cleaning
and House Laundering.
Use of Ballroom, Billiard-room, Hoof Garden, Gratis.
Guests’ Cars garaged on premises at low rates.
Telephone Service Direct to Flats.
Restaurant on 12th Floor.
Rentals from £3/5/- unfurnished.
£4/5/- furnished.
Legal Notices.
THE children of SAMUEL JOHN JONES
HOOKE, deceased, a native of Birming-
ham, who came to Australia about 1888, and
who died at Sydney in 1910, are requested
to communicate with the Public Trustee,
New South Wales, regarding the estate of
Phyllis Hooke.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
1 ZEALAND—WELLINGTON
DISTRICT
(Napier Registry).
TO WALTER BANNISTER, formerly of
Canberra in the Commonweath of Aus-
tralia Carpenter now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand at Napier citing you to appear and
answer the Petition of MAUD BANNISTER
of Hastings in the Provincial District of
Hawke's Bay and Dominion of New Zealand
Married Woman wherein claiming to be law-
fully married to you she prays for a dis-
solution of her marriage with you on _ the
ground of desertion and such Citation inti-
mates that in default of your so doing the
Court will proceed to hear the said Petition
and to pronounce sentence therein notwith-
standing your absence : NOW THEREFORE
TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose afore-
said you are within 28 days after the date of
this publication to attend in person or by
your Solicitor at the Supreme Court Office
at Napier in the Provincial District of
Hawkes Bay and Dominion of New Zealand
and there to enter an appearance without
which you will not be allowed to address the
Court at any stage of the proceedings. A
copy of the said Citation and Petition will
be supplied to you on your applying for
the same at the Supreme Court Office at
Napier aforesaid.
DATED this 28th day of November 1928.
G. G. CHISHOLM,
Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent, Walter Ban-
nister, are particularly requested to forward
to him the foregoing advertisement.
David Fidelis Scannell is the Solicitor for
the Petitioner, whose address for service
is at the offices of Messieurs Carlile McLean
Scannell and Wood, Solicitors, Herschell
Street, Napier.
Missing Friends.
VJT7 ANTED addresses of the following:—
GOORAM SINGH, Indian Hawker,
0. R. WALLER, formerly of Benalla, Store-
keeper.
Apply HARGRAVE AND LEWERS,
Box 27, Benalla.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking. i
Published by
The Bulletin
214 George
Newspaper Co.,
Street, Sydney.
The Safe Food.
1
Food
Heffd. tr a us Mark.
Owing to constant re-
commendation and use by
medical men, and because
it is so easily digested,
Benger’s has become known
as “the safe Food’’for In-
fants, Invalids and the Aged
Send for Benger’s Booklet, post free.
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,
350, George Street, SYDNEY.
“LARUNDEL” and “BONNIE DOON.”
Agricultural and Grazing Land For Sale by Tender.
“Larundel,” 8200 acres or thereabouts. In ten (10) lots ranging from
approximately 300 acres to 4500 acres.
“T ARUNDEL” is situated midway between Meredith and Elaine, on the Geelong-Ballarat
railway line. The homestead of 4200 acres, to which is added 277 acres 3 roods
26 perches leasehold country, fronting the Leigh River, is a very choice property.
There is a commodious brick house built on rock foundations, comprising ten (10) large,
lofty rooms, with billiard-room and every modern convenience. Situated as it is on
an eminence, giving a view of the whole property, as well as the surrounding district as-
far as the eye can reach, it makes a choice residential property, land on which sheep
may be fattened, and no other place on the market can offer the opportunities that
“Larundel” does, in giving the choice of three good markets, namely, Ballarat, Gee-
long and Melbourne within such easy reach.
Each of the farming lots is within 21 miles of a State School. Practically the whole
of the land was under cultivation at one time. Some of the land is fallowed ready
for next year.
“Bonnie Doon” is approximately 2500 acres, comprising two parts, 400 acres being about
1 mile distant. The homestead is close to the Lai Lai station. The improvements are
quite in keeping with the property. It is a nice handy-sized property, and under a
residential owner’s care the carrying capacity may be largely increased.
The acreages given are approximate only.
Liberal terms offered to purchasers.
Intending tenderers will be met at the Elaineßailway Station on due notice being given
to Mr. Cyril Austin, “Larundel,” Elaine, or through the Agents, Geelong or Melbourne.
Tenders will be received till noon on Thursday, 20th December. The highest or any
tender not necessarily accepted.
Plans and Tender forms may be had on application to the Agents, Messrs. DENNYS,
LASCELLES. LIMITED, Geelong, Melbourne, Swan Hill, Echuca, Hopetoun, Mort-
lake and Horsham.
Solicitors: Messrs. HARWOOD & PINCOTT, Geelong.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Sir John Goodwin has returned from his
researches at Cairns convinced that North
Queensland is a white man s country. He
says he found the kiddies of the North
physically fit and mentally alert. They were
slighter in build than the children about
Brisbane and paler, but seemed perfectly
healthy.
The opening of the W. R, Black Home for
Orphans was an event of last week. The
Mayor performed the ceremony, and the
Cowley lady, in a black georgette coat and
patterned gown, received the guests. Pink
hydrangeas and their blue brothers in vast
bowls decorated, with a sprinkling of shasta
daisies. Mrs. J. B. Henderson kept an eye
on the afternoon tea, and there were crowds
of visitors; 40 came from Ipswich. The
home is a roomy old house on Laurehavenue,
Chelmer, and is run under Presbyterian aus-
pices.
Toowoomba opened a maternity hospital
recently, and there is a movement to establish
an institution for pre-natal treatment. Sixty-
four mothers’ hospitals have now been
opened in this State under Government
supervision.
The Convent of Our Lady of Victories had
a gala afternoon for the church and convent
funds. Many colored streamers decorated
and the Arcadia jazz band played. A choco-
late-wheel and many well-stocked stalls did a
good trade. The'Sisters of Mercy arranged
the fete, and in the evening, the grounds were
electrically lit.
Jean Trudle’s pupils had a recital in All
Saints’ Hall —three short plays by moderns
and excerpts from Dickens and Shakspea.re.
Mercia Benson and Marion Wilson supplied
the music, and flowers and other gifts came
over the footlights. Amongst those in the
hall were the Pattisons, Dr. and Mrs. Win-
terbotham, and Captain and Mrs. J. H. Pol-
lard.
For Merna Gillies, who is going for a trip
to the East, Mrs. D. D. Georgeson had a
party at Rowe’s in a setting of roses and
carnations. On the same day Mrs. W. R.
Cox entertained Mrs. PI. W. Irwin, Cunna-
mulla, amongst bowls of crimson roses, the
tea-drinkers being Mrs. R. G. Hamilton, Mrs.
Bourke, Mrs. Searle, Mrs. Plines, Alice
Gore-Jones and singer Clarice Cox.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Delegates of the Order of St. John of
Jerusalem were tendered a civic reception
in Perth. Major Colin Macßae and Lady
Margaret continued their journey the same
day, but Sir John Hewett and his daughter,
Mrs. St. John Atkinson, were with us for
a week. Among entertainments arranged
for them were motor trips to Yallingup
Caves, Bunbury and the Group Settlements.
There was a demonstration by the St. John
Ambulance Society, where .scouts and guides,
a police team, a nursing division and the
Perth railway ambulance team demonstrated
their efficiency. Some boy scouts did an
original bit of acting, in which volunteer
wharf-laborers got into a brawl and there
was a call for first-aiders.
This is a Helen Ogden picture of Muriel
Southern, whose brush-work is well known
on this side of
Australia. The
painter favors
water - colors,
though she
has some
clever oils to
her credit.
Recently she
held an exhi-
bition, with
Mr. Barker as
partner, in
the Arts and
Crafts rooms.
She is art
instructor at
P r e m a ntle
T e c h n i cal
School, and
sots aside cer-
tain hours of
her busy life
for the tuition
of private
pupils. Muriel’s birthplace is the Apple Isle,
and she is an ex-pupil of the Collegiate Col-
lege, Hobart. In Sydney Julian Ashton
taught her to use a pencil and color box.
One of the most successful charity bridge
parties of the season was held in the Picca-
dilly, when 70 tables were squeezed into the
ballroom. Mrs. Joyner and Mr. Albert pre-
sented prizes, which went to Barbara Prisk
and Mr. Muirhead. The good cause was the
establishment of a Women’s College at the
Uni., for which £15,000 will be needed. The
Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor were present,
and the Professorial Board was well repre-
sented.
Cupid is always busy at the end of the
dancing season. Squadron-leader Peter
Drummond, who did daring things on the
Palestine front, has offered liis heart and
his hand to Isabel Drake-Brockman, whose
home is in London. Sydna Thompson,
of Cottesloe, has accepted a diamond trinket
from Walter Gradison. A third engagement is
that of Dorothy Mosey, of West Perth, to
Howard Bonner, of Neutral Bay, Sydney,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The King’s illness cancelled some v.-r. en-
gagements, but the Governor was at the
Caledonian dinner (it is the first time for
ages that local Scots have been able, to claim
a Governor as a brither), where he made
an excellent speech, and Lady Hore-Ruthven
was at a Girls’ Club concert at Unley.
While there she opened a Goose Fair, run by
the Women’s Service Association in aid of
the unemployed.
The Spanish training-ship has set us
pleasantly a-tlirill. Mrs. Edmund Bowman,
Mrs. Frank Rymill, the Clem Hills, Joan
Smeaton and the Wallace Bruces have host-
essed tennis parties; there was more tennis
at Mount Lofty, with Laurel Lawrence as
hostess, and from dining with the Kenneth
Duffields the visiting officers went on to
Betty Ann Hill’s, where they danced.
The Arts and Orpheus societies have rung
down the curtain for this year, the former
with a concert arranged by the feminine
members of its Council and the latter with
an excellent performance in the Town Hail. J
The item of the evening was Cyril Jenkins’s j
“Fallen Heroes,” with W. F. Noffke as
soloist; Aileen Newlyn and E. T. Jenkins
also sang, and a Liszt bracket was played by
Muriel Prince.
The Children’s Hospital, which has just
added knight Henry Newland and Mrs. M.
A. Fotheringham to its life members, has
been taking stock of its year’s finances and
puts expenditure down at £24,500 —of that
wages and drugs between them account for
£11,570. Housekeeping is £4050—-an amaz-
ingly low figure in view of the size of the
place.
For the rest, our distractions have been
chiefly Henley-on-Torrens —a nice hot day
and a big crowd, and the usual accompani-
ments of decorated boats and fireworks —
and “The Quaker Girl.” The latter was
staged at the Prince of Wales by the Operatic
Society, and was excellently done. Matie
Pank’s Prudence and Essie Brodziak’s
Madame Blum were up to professional
standard. Proceeds are for charity, and each
night sweet and flower and programme sales
have been conducted under the wing of
capable committees, while speeches from the
stage by Mrs. Lavington Bonython, the
Moulden lady and others have made bids for
public support.
Daisy Howard-Smith, a niece of the late
knight Edwin Smith, and her niece, Beryl
.Tagger, are here on a visit from England.
They will divide their time between the Tal-
bot Smiths, at Kensington, and the George
Deans, at Mount Lofty.
A boom in gardening may be looked for
in the Port Adelaide district, where a lucky
householder digging his back yard found a
2240 z. copper ingot and an 80oz. silver one.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The Citizen Forces held their Garrison
Ball in the big drill-hall at Angelsea Bar-
racks, with the object of raising funds for
the gymkhana an February. The building
looked very gay, with flags, red and blue
lights and greenery. Margaret O’Grady came
with the Commandant and Mrs. Cox Taylor,
and Commander and Mrs. McFarlane, Mayor
and Mayoress Wignall, and a large crowd of
military folk swelled the throng.
Claremont’s social circle, of which Mrs.
Norman Booth is president, held an enter-
tainment in aid of the Central-street kinder-
garten which drew a big crowd from town
and the surrounding district. Margaret
O’Grady, Mrs. Booth and others figured in
the first half of the programme as singers,
and Wilde’s “Importance of Being Earnest”
was read by a cast whose parts were very
suitably allotted. •
The new studio of 7ZL was opened by
Premier McPhee the other evening. The
quarters look very attractive, with their
parquet floor, cream walls and dark green
curtains, the symbolic lightning streak
and “7ZL” embroidered across them in gold.
Clemes College, at the finish of the kinder-
garten term, invited proud parents and
friends to see a show entitled “A Day in
Japan.” Miss Bracewell was responsible for
linking some charming little songs and inci-
dents together in a sort of musical playlet.
Oscar Biggs, of the college resident staff,
had set the verses to bright tunes. The
decorations of the Memorial Hall were ex-
tremely Japanesy, and the 50 small partici-
pants in the garb of Nippon sang and
acted remarkably well.
Girl Guides in the North have been holding
their summer camp under delightful aus-
pices. The Tulloch Scotts lent them the
old empty Newnham House and grounds, the
house being partly furnished for those who
liked to sleep indoors, while tents were
pitched on the lawns for the real campers.
Miss Wilson, the Scottish guider, was with
them, and on visitors’ day a big contingent
of friends came out. The Guides had a cook
to prepare meals, but the rest of the work
was done by detachments of girls.
Sudden illness, necessitating a severe
operation, has overtaken Olive Wilton, who
is in Stowell hospital. Latest news is that
she is progressing fairly well. What with her
large circle of students, and the producer’s
work for the Repertory Society, Miss Wilton
has been overworking for the last few months.
NORTHERN TERRITORY.
Darwin.
We’ve had a wedding. Millicent Bergin
a recent arrival from Victoria, and Town-
clerk Reginald Leydin were the parties, and
it, was an evening affair at St. Mary’s.
“The Follies,” a dozen or so of Darwin’s
younger musical folk, gave an entertainment
at the Town Hall and drew a big audience.
Proceeds went toward improvements and
alterations to the Soldiers’ Memorial Hall.
Annie Lock, a missionary from Central
Australia, has been here. The abos., she
says, are in a very bad way, due to a drought
that has lasted four years. Native game has
almost disappeared, and the squatters con-
serve the waterholes for their perishing
stock, to the disadvantage of the blacks, who
cannot understand why they are deprived
of their age-long privileges. She advocates
the establishment of reservations for Binghi.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Letters of the Empress Frederick
Edited by the Right Hon. Sir
FREDERICK PONSONBY, G.C.8.,
G.C.V.O. Illustrated, 255. net.
Samuel Pepys
By ARTHUR PONSONBY, M.P.,
58. net. (English Men of Letters.)
Memorandum on Resignation,
August, 1914
By JOHN VISCOUNT MORLEY,
3s. 6d. net.
Winter Words
In various Moods and Metres. By
THOMAS HARDY, 7s. 6d. net.
Mr. Hardy’s last volume of poems.
The Mikado
By Sir W. S. GILBERT. With eight
illustrations in color by W. RUS-
SELL FLINT, and Drawings in line
by CHARLES E. BROCK, R. 1.,
7a. 6d. net.
NEW NOVELS
The Silver Thom
A Book of Stories. By HUGH
WALPOLE.
What is Love?
By E. M. DELAFIELD.
The Story of Keth
By LADY BLANCHE GIROUARD.
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
“THE AGE ”
Established 185£<
VICTORIA’S LEADING MORNING DAILY
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
Is the Great Creating
Force in Business.
For all advertising campaigns designed to
cover Victoria include “The Age.” It enters
the homes and offices of
123,533
Subscribers Daily
and publishes over
1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
“The Age” is the BUSINESS BUILDER that
discriminative advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Service Agencies in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
JCmai, ftuutl
Ask Your Jewel ler\
•Y;'- :./ • for. ■'
ROTHERHAMS
ENGLISH WATCHES
WHEN A DOCTOR
GETS INDIGESTION
He doesn’t trifle with it by taking anti-acids.
He knows he must get rid of the cause of
the acid, or the trouble will soon come back.
The doctor knows no better remedy than
pepsin; and the best form of pepsin for
stomach sufferers is Para-Pepsin. This gives
quick, harmless relief, maintains the normal,
healthy acid balance necessary to proper
digestion and prevents the possibility of dan-
gerous excess acidity. Para-Pepsin is sold
in tablet form by chemists everywhere at
trifling cost, and those inclined to stomach
weakness or digestive disturbance say they
wouldn’t be without it for worlds.
Business Connections Wanted
BRITISH house desires to get into connection with Australian
Merchants interested in
Anthracite Coal, Edible and Vegetable Tallow,
Hides, Skins, Furs, Horse Hair, Walnuts, Pea-
nuts, Gall Nuts, Almonds, Raw Cotton, Wool,
Brassware, Curios, Lamp Shades, Carpets, Rugs,
and for all other products of North China.
Send Replies to
THE INTERNATIONAL TRADING CO.(North China)
96 RUE DE TAKOU, TIENTSIN.
CHRISTMAS
GIFTS
0999Ak
O
h
<3&©
W////S////////S/d’
ONOTO INK—
Best for all Pens
C/'
iPJXv/m
ay * /
’"'SS//X/''
'A
Wai
fD;
"I ,
X
5. JVQJ.
EiHIl
liillijllllllliil llp!
I i iii ili !! ! Hi ! iili i! ! !!!!i
ip |il ll ili I in i 11l pil
>•. ><■ Ml;'Pr ■]“,
iiliiiiiliilli! lif!i !!i!!;i! ii!!i!l $ i!|p
W
Beverley (Junr.) for
A.C. or Battery op-
eration only, £lO.
The Beverley (Senr.),
A.C. £l3/15/-
DC. £ll/-/-
Stark
realism!
The Magnavox principle of radio reproduction
is first to make audible the fuller, richer tones —
with volume unconfined ... which power recep-
tion has brought. Not only greater volume, but
separation of tones and instrumental values on
volume . A fine set deserves Magnavox—the
most accurate radio reproducer. Choose yours
from our array.
Below, Unit only, AC £10/10/-.
ASK YOUR NEAREST
RADIO DEALER TO
DEMONSTRATE A
HAGNAVCX
DYNAMIC SPEAKER
AUSTRALIAN PATENT
No. 7225.
1 1M |lt9l
THE CHRISTMAS ISSUE OF
“THE QUEENSLANDER”
(DATED DECEMBER 6, 1928)
Queensland’s Popular and Brightly Illustrated Weekly,
is tlxe Largest and Most Attractive Christmas Number ever published, contain-
ing Pictures in Colors and a big collection of illustrated Stories, Special
Articles, etc. The usual weekly features are retained, making it A TYPICAL
QUEENSLAND PRODUCTION.
A Beautiful Colored Supplement, entitled “A PASTORAL SCENE,” is Pre-
sented FREE with each copy. This picture is splendidly reproduced on Heavy
Art Paper, and should be extremely popular.
PRICE 1/-
including
Supplement
Obtainable from any of the following N.S.W. Agents: —
Gordon and Gotch (Aust.), Ltd., Barrack and Clarence Streets; N.S.W. Bookstall Co., George
Street and Central Railway Station; Uneeda News Agency, Bond Street; Swains, Ltd., Pitt Street;
Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
PUBLISHED BY THE
BRISBANE NEWSPAPER COMPANY, LIMITED,
“Courier” Building, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also Publishers of the “Brisbane Courier” and "Sports Referee.”
Missing Friends.
f TAMES GLENNON left his home, then situate at
68 Mollison-street, Abbotsford, near Melbourne, in
Victoria, in the year 1907, and his relatives have
not heard of him since. He is entitled to a share
Under the Will of his uncle Edward Glennon,
deceased. Any person having knowledge of his
whereabouts, please communicate with THE
NATIONAL TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND AGENCY
COMPANY OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED, 113
Queen-street, Melbourne.
RAINA LUIGI—Any person who can fur-
nish the present whereabouts of Raina
Luigi, who left Lakeside, Western Australia,
about 17 years ago, is requested to communi-
cate with F. G. Cowle & Co., Solicitors,
Kalgoorlie, W.A.
Che Old-World
„ Galleries. LTD.
65 Duke Street, Grosvenor Square,
London, W.l, England
(4 doors from Oxford Street, near Selfridge’s ).
Cables: Olgallery, Westo, London.
BUY YOUR ENGLISH ANTIQUES FROM
ENGLAND.
We arrange for boxing, consular invoices and
declaration of antiquity, freight, insurance and
delivery to your door at the very lowest
rates. Antiques admitted duty free to Australia.
U:
BP
A Dining Room all furnished in guaranteed
antiques ( i. c., each piece actually made over
100 years ago), for the low cost of £3l. Full
illustrated particulars in our Catalogue.
Illustrated Catalogue and Guide, sent on
receipt of 6 d. Australian stamp, contains;
(1) Complete price list; 180 photos; 60 pages.
(2) Furnishing and color schemes by Mrs.
Barrett. . „ ,
(3) “Useful Household Hints,” by H. Stanley
Barrett, architect; contains “How to stain
i deal floors to look like oak, and to last
20 years” ; “Best polish for old furniture
l and how to make it”; “Cleaning
furniture, etc.”
1 (4) Old Furniture as a good Investment.
1 (5) Hints on buying Antiques, on Fakes and
| Historical notes.
1 (6) List of Dates and Periods of Old Furniture.
| (7) How to furnish your home in Antiques
for £lOO, giving full description of each
piece.
COUPON. Sydney Bulletin
I enclose 6d. Australian stamp for above
catalogue.
NAME
ADDRESS
I
BIRKIYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-ear
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
GODROCK
HOPEWORK
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND.
THE WEEKLY TIMES
has always been
THE GREAT FARMERS’ PAPER.
YOU GET FREE'
Legal advice, Doctor’s advice,
Veterinary advice, and
answers to all farming questions.
New South Wales edition available
every week.
Price 4d.
Offices: 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
HANDSOME MEN HAVE
WELL-GROOMED HAIR
“Oh! I thought you were much older than that.
I suppose your hair gives that impression. Not
very tactful, but that’s how women think of a man
whose hair is thin or grey. Keep your hair young
and you are young. Use “Vi-Glo,” and watch
results! See it grow new hair in quick time; see
the rich color come back; the grey tinges go!
Watch the ladies! You’ll know by that how
successful “Vi-Glo” is. Don’t regard “Vi-Glo” as
a hair wash ; it’s a scientific scalp-invigorator. Costs
only 3/- for the complete outfit at any chemist’s, or
you can get it by post for 3/4 from Vi-Glorient
Company, Kembla Building, Sydney. Money back
if not surprised and delighted with the quick results.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE ..
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.
MAD E IN
AUSTRALIA
SAY “KRAFT” BEFORE
YOU SAY “CHEESE”
To get the very best in Cheese it is necessary
to ask for Kraft Cheese, not merely cheese.
Kraft Cheese is the finest quality, and has a
most delicious flavor—it is always the very best.
(CW
gdf
cnees*
Made in Australia by
Kraft Walker Cheese
Co. Pty.j Ltd., at
Riverside Avenue, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.
Sold by weight or in bib. cartons by
all grocers a-nd storekeepers.
SERVICE
—wilhaSh
tv
Vft
■eft
t' c
o^'
ftV
t* c
sit'
it*
«>»
,\C e
ftOt
e
n &c ;
US
>« t
iV
,te
o*
Vv°.
,A C
\*\
it« e
*°t
\ft-
V>ft°
-SfJt V
o*
Tariff from £3 10/- weekly
S‘GROSVENOR
f cJUklaides Finest Unlicensed JioteL
Opp. Railway Stn..North Terrace.
COONARDOO.
By- Katharine Prichard.
FOR two or three years Geary and Hugh
had not spoken. They passed each
other on the roads, staring straight
ahead, giving no si'gn of recognition. Hugh
had sent his boys to Nuniewarra for any
T7W cattle.
While Bill Gale and Phyllis were away in
the Straits with horses, Geary was ill. In great
pain, thinking he was going to die, he sent
over to Wytaliba. The scratched, almost
indecipherable scrawl Sheba brought begged
for pain-killer of some sort, and Hugh re-
turned in the car to Nuniewarra with Sheba,
taking morphia and a hypodermic from his
mother’s old medicine-chest. After an in-
jection he drove with Sam down to Kar-
rara, where a doctor and hospital had estab-
lished themselves. Sam weathered an
operation for hernia, and returned to Nunie-
warra with a new lease of life. Ihe hostility
between him and Hugh appeared to die
down for a while. They recognised each
other when they met; exchanged a few
words.
A tall, heavy man, wearing his belt under
a loose, flabby paunch, Sam still carried
himself with a swaggering jollity, and liked
to air his argument for polygamy in hot
countries. In hotel bars and on sprees, up
and down the river, he enjoyed nothing
more than to rake a dilapidated Bible from
his pocket and read aloud the story of
Judah or recite the number of Solomon’s
wives and female accessories.
The pub in Roebourne had a rowdy crowd
of shearers and miners the night Hugh
walked in with Big Otto, whom he had met
on the road. Sam was standing up against
the bar, a huge new felt hat on his head,
his face inflamed, raw-looking, pale eyes
leaping under pink slatted lids.
“ ‘But King Solomon loved many strange
women, together with the daughter of
Pharaoh,’ ” Hugh heard him chanting as he
had many times before. “ ‘Women of the
Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites, Zidonians
and Hittites.’ ”
“Go on! Go on, Sam!” the shouts re-
sounded.
“ ‘He had seven hundred wives and prin-
cesses, and three hundred concubines’
The laughter and shouts of the men, their
oaths and exclamations, as they rocked and
surged about Sam drowned the rest of his
declamation.
Hugh ordered his drinks and stood with
Otto-But-Not-of-Roses, as the big Swede
was called, at the farther end of the bar.
Sam hailed them, and called for drinks all
round. He was well-screwed, and in great
form, Josh Johnson, the publican, said.
Hugh hung back. He had put away more
whisky than usual himself that night, but
even in liquor he could not fraternise with
Sam Geary.
Seeing Hugh on the outskirts of the
crowd, a sombre, hostile figure, and know-
ing the wind was with him, Sam could not
resist the malicious impulse to hurt and
annoy him.
“Say, Youie,” he bawled, “who do you
think I spotted in the port the other day?
Coonardoo! And you never saw such an
old break-up. Never’d have known her if
she hadn’t screeched when she saw me, and
picked up a stone. Cripes, it near got me,
too! The boys tell me she’s been hanging
around the port this couple of months.
Come in on a pearling lugger. They say
she’s been up and down the coast for years,
hanging round the Chinese quarters. All
in now, rotten with disease, and booked for
the island. I asked Trooper Andrews if
there was any chance of getting her away.
But he said they were shovin’ her off next
week.”
Hugh swung over to Geary. His arm
flew out, smashing across the red, swollen
flesh which was Sam Geary’s face. Geary
fell. Men started up about him, protest-
ing noisily. Hugh staggered out of the bar,
swaying, his mind darkened by his anger.
“Coonardoo!” he gasped, then reeled and
fell.
Winni found him lying on his face at
the back of the hotel in the early hours
of the morning. He went for Chitali, and
they dragged Hugh to the horse-camp.
Before he had quite recovered consciousness
they were ready for the road. Hugh rode
along beside them. He did not even ask
why he came to be leaving the town so
early. The pink in the sky was as soft
as the breast of galahs flying there against
the horizon, rose and grey. Were they
galahs flying across the plains, or feathers
of clouds flushed and sweeping like a flock
of galahs?
A doped sickness and heaviness held
Hugh’s brain. He knew that he was mov-
ing out and away from the town with its
scattered and ramshackle houses, its swelter-
ing iron sheds. A noisome growth, it seemed
to him, on the edge of the sea, like those
fungi which melt away in stink and slime.
As they rode on, there was only the wide,
empty country, grey fur of the trees stretch-
ing endlessly, hills lumped and undulating
against a fading silky spaciousness, blue,
fine and pure. Smell of the earth was good,
heat of the sun, the clean, brazen gleam on
polished pebbles, taste of the red dust rising
in mist from the horses’ feet.
The boys rode ahead silently; W inni be-
side Hugh. Taking command unconsciously,
at midday, Winni said:
“Camp here, Youie?”
“Eeh-mm,” ‘Hugh agreed, and sat under
a tree while the boys made tea and brought
him food. He felt sick and childish; his
brain was clouded as though a blood-vessel
had broken, and blood pressing heavily
against sensitive tissue would not let him
think or feel.
The boys believed he had been doped;
they had seen teamsters and drovers sick-
ened and made unconscious by bad whisky
or cigar ash dropped in their drink.
At the homestead Hugh hung about for
a long time brooding and gloomy, begin-
ning a job and flinging it down, to sit
staring over the plains. He had no plea-
sure or interest in anything, it seemed,
though the routine work of the station kept
him moving mechanically. A dull and
sodden hopelessness dogged everything he
did.
Phyllis and Billy Gale came over to see
him when they returned from the Straits
and Chitali sent word that Hugh was ill.
Billy had heard of Hugh’s attack on Sam
Geary in the hotel at Roebourne, but said
nothing to Phyllis about it.
She had heard all there was to hear from
Beilaba and Wanna when she went over
to see Hugh. She could not make out what
had come over him, and tried to jolly him
out of his discouragement. Nothing seemed
to rouse the old cheery, fighting spirit which
for so many years had kept Hugh going—
indeed, had been Hugh Watt of Wytaliba
under all circumstances.
“I say, Bill,” Phyllis exclaimed as they
rode home together.
“If Coonardoo was a white woman
you’d say she’d been ‘the love of his
“Cripes!” Bill exclaimed irritably. A
man doesn’t love a gin, not a white man.
“Doesn’t he?” Phyllis reflected. Just a
good, ordinary man who’s tried to make a
Galahad of himself. And his repressions
have rotted in him.”
Bill looked thoroughly miserable. “I
don’t know,” he said. “I suppose you’re
right. It’s beyond me, seeing under the
skin like that—Galahad, repressions”-—-
Phyllis rode her horse in against his, her
eyes laughing to him from the shadow of
her wide hat-brim.
“I wouldn’t for all the world destroy
your illusion about love, all the tender sen-
timents, darling,” she cried gaily. “You’ll
have to forgive me if I blither like that
occasionally. Sing ‘Till the sands of the
desert grow co-old!’”
Bill sang until the hills were mauving
in rosy garish light, and the first stars glit-
tered brassily over the dark earth. Then
Phyllis and he dismounted, made a fire, and
camped for the night.
Down at the uloo they talked about You
and how the station was going to pieces.
Eight bullocks had been found dead round
a waterhole where the pumping gear was
broken. A sheet of iron, blown off the ver-
andah in a storm, was lying out m me
plains where it had fallen. Ivo old hen
scratched about the garden and laid an
egg occasionally in a corner of Louies
room The shade miah had tumbled down,
and even the punti was dying where it stood
in hard, rakish brushes before the house.
White cockatoos whirled, screeching and
shattering the silence with their fierce, wild
cries as they flew round the house and
garden.
Mumae was concerned about what was
happening to Wytaliba, the blacks believed.
A curse was on the place since Coonaidoo
finish ’em,” Chitali exclaimed
when Cock-eyed Bob came in with his
camels late one evening and looked about,
him, aghast at the neglected and gone-to-
pieces air of the place. . . „ _ ,
“What’s the matter? What is it? Bob
a skeci
" Chitali glanced over his shoulder at the
blue coils of the To-morrow ranges. ?
“Coonardoo,” he said. Icouie send m
away. Tell ’m never come back again.
Coonardoo go.”
Cock-eyed Bob understood the blacks
pretty well when they talked in their own
dialect. He listened intently as Chitali s
voice wavered off into an explanation or
what he thought was happening on Wytaliba.
That Coonardoo’s spirit had withered and
died when she went away from VV ytaliba was
something of what Chitali said. And t a ■
withering and dying of Coonardoo s spin
had caused a blight on the place. She had
loved Wytaliba, and been bound up with
the source of its life. Was she not the
Well in the Shadow? Had she not some
mysterious affinity with that ancestia
female spirit which was responsible tor ler-
tilitv, generation, the growth of everything/
Bob did not understand; but something ot
Chitali’s meaning reached him. The black s
eyes flashed; there was fervor m his speech.
Bob remembered Mumae had said once:
“Warieda’s the poet and Chitali’s the mys-
tic of the crowd!”
At any rate, Hugh was under the influ-
ence of Coonardoo’s spirit, Chitali said.
Not that she would wish any evil to befall
him, or make magic against her own people
and Wytaliba. Simply the withdrawal ot
the spirit-forces bound up with her made
the place sterile.
“Youie baba” [crazy], Chitali murmured,
touching his head. . .
“Aw, go to Hell!” Bob exclaimed irrit-
ably. ’ “The drought’s got Youie down.
That’s all there is to it,”
As he made his way to the homestead,
slight and dapper as he always was in his
buff pants, white shirt and wide hat, he
turned over in his mind what Chitali had
said, all the same. He had no doubt that
Hugh, being the sort of man he suspected,
gentle and kind-hearted, was “chewing the
rag ” as he put it to himself, over Coonar-
doo. Bob had heard Sam Geary’s story.
But what sort of a man was Hugh, Bob
asked himself, to let a thing like that prey
on his mind, break him up? Most men
treated a gin anyhow and never turned a
hair.
Bob had letters in his pocket for Hugh
which would put the capper on all this
misery and desolation. From what had
been said, Bob knew r Sam’s dream of roping
Wytaliba under his own boundary was near-
ing realisation.
Sam had made the bank an offer for
Wytaliba, and Hugh was to quit. How
would he take it? Bob was afraid to hand
over the letters. All the way over from
Nuniewarra he had been wondering how
to soften the jolt for Hugh.
After he had talked to Hugh for a while
he put a proposition. “See here, Youie,
he said. “You want to get away from this
place for a bit. Come out with me. I’m on
a real good thing. We can hang out for
six months on the To-morrow this time of
the year, and you can pick up specks and
bits of gold all round where I found that
eight-ounce lump last year. Deposits m
these ’ere jasper bars—it’s a good sign.
Might lead on to something big. At Ml.
Magnet they come on to good gold m
jasper bars”
Hugh listened as if he were more than
half-inclined to fall in with Cock-eye s
plan. „ ,
“Got some letters for me, Bob? ne
asked, his eyes on Bob’s pocket.
Bob handed over the letters, and Hugh
went off with them into the sitting-room
where his mother’s photograph still hung,
now covered with cobwebs. Hugh shut the
door, and Bob stretched in a bag chair on
the verandah. He went up to the shed,
brought down his violin, and strummed all
the.little airs he knew to remind Hugh he
was there.
When it was time for a meal, Bob went
into the kitchen, raked up the fire, looked
into the cool safe, which no one had put
water in for years, helped himself and made
tea. Hugh came along the verandah, looked
through the doorway, a steadier, saner ex-
pression on his face than had been there
for a long time.
“That’s right, old man,” he said. “Help
yourself. I’ll be along presently.
In the morning he told Chitali Wytaliba
had been taken over by the bank. Sam
Geary would probably buy and work the
place from Nuniewarra. The men at the
uloo could either stay where they were or
go into Geary’s and work for him.
Hugh explained the position to Winni.
“What’ll you do, Winni?” he asked, con-
fident that'the boy would ask to remain
w T ith him. “I’m, broke, done in, got nothing
to give you but a feed now and then and
a horse or clothes. You’re a good mechanic
and horse-breaker. You can make good
money on any of the stations. I m going
out with Cock-eyed Bob prospectin in the
To-morrow. You can come with me; or
I’ll give you a fiver and you can go any-
where you like.”
Winni looked at him with deep, dark
eyes, lashes curled up from them.
“Giye me the fiver, You,” he said. 1
got to find Coonardoo.”
CHAPTER XXXIII.
A tall, straight figure moved slowly
through the stretch of drought-stricken
mulga on the plains stretching out from
red flanks of the Mariyierra hills.
Very thin and darker than the trees, the
figure swayed and drifted, making an arrowy
track, as a kangaroo goes to water, across
the rough, hard ground, towards the hills.
A gin, naked and wasted by disease, carry-
ing her clothes in a little bundle on her
back, she stalked on, and on and on.
All day she walked through the dead
mulga, crossing the narrow pads of old
cattle-tracks which wavered over the dry,
hard earth like the currents in a calm sea,
coming at sunset to ruckled ground at the
foot of the hills where there were tussocks
of spinifex and bushes of thada-thada with
thick waxen leaves. She made a fire there,
threw a small piece of blackened flesh on
to the ashes, ate it, and, brushing the stones
away, stretched to sleep on the sand.
At dawn she was walking again, steering
with slow, flagging steps towards the break-
away which made a blue fissure in the wall
of the hills. Up, up, along its steep gravelly
sides she moved.
Day after day, for days, weeks, months,
she had been walking like that, eyes swung
out before her, as if a magnet were draw-
ing them across the plains; beyond blue
backs of the most distant hills, drawing her
to the dim edges of the paie-blue sky,
although her eyes were quick to tracks on
the earth as well, tracks of gin-arra, wild
turkey, emu, dingoes and kangaroo or cattle.
When that dark, straight figure came
swaying and stumbling through the trees
of Wytaliba Creek, just below the uloo, no
dogs flew barking to greet it; there was
no movement of beasts or people. Where
were the children who should have scat-
tered, with quick, waving sticks of arms
and legs?
Only white cockatoos, feeding in the gar-
den before white buildings of the home-
stead, flew screeching at the sight of an
old gin in a tom blue gina-gina, standing
(Concluded on page 53.)


>7
A
SECRET
—a secret sixty years old! And
during all that time it has
been bringing vital health to
thousands of people in every
civilized country in the world.
What is this secret? Just this t—
that the inner cleanliness on
which good health depends is
best maintained through the
simple rule —a glass of water
sparkling with a “dash” of Eno
first thing every morning. Gent-
ly and naturally Eno helps the
system to free itself of its daily
waste and keeps your blood-
stream clean and vigorous.
Eno does its work so pleasantly. The
idea that only unpleasant purgative
mineral salts can be good for you has
long been exploded. In this climate
nothing can really take the place of the
morning draught of Eno’s “Fruit -Salt”
with its beneficial effect upon the
whole system.
3n two sizes at Chemists and Stores
*
Hi
iTRACtI
FRUIT
'V/fMARKt
PREPARED ONLY BY J. C. ENO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sales Agents :
THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE a: CO LTD„
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
Hi
Sfill
■
0
Recognized as the
standard of the world
for over a quarter of a cen-
tury, WEED TYRE CHAINS
are the preference of motor-
ists everywhere. They grip
and hold; assure positive
traction; and protect car and
occupants from the dangers
of skidding.
Always insist upon WEED
Chains. Order them
from your dealer
gd
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
1
12
10
Time is important
On all occasions, business or social, a correct
time-keeper is a prime essential. Into every
Elgin are built the finest parts by the world’s
best craftsmen, ensuring the creation of
watches of accuracy. Look for the name
Elgin.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
<T>lgin
‘HE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
jtis Mark
fg
in the Watch Care
104
§3
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
appr o a c h i n g
age.
It is NOT "THE
THING."
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Allen’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold, at all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Manufactured by
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
m
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
TLbe
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published In Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion'' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
fEEL
1H
of
CR
tiny Chemists^i/a


A
A Practical
Christmas
Gift.
One Safety
rHERE is but one safety witi
one blade. That is a Rolls
Razor, Scientists in the
laboratory and craftsmen in the
factory have laboured to transform
the safety from a mere holder of
stamped out wafer blades to a one
bladed satisfactory razor. The result
is the Rolls Razor, the supreme
safety of the century. Its one blade
is hollow ground from tested steel.
The edge of this blade is kept keen
by automatic honing and stropping
in its case. Years and years of
clean, smooth shaves are assured
with a Rolls Razor. Buy one—and
be finished with the nuisance of
wafer blades.
ROLLS
RAZOR
The ONE-blade Safety
SOLE AGENTS:
BROWN & BUREAU LTD.
Sydney. Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONN EI.T. ST lIKET, SYDNEY.
X
THERE ARE MANY GRADES OF
CRAB, but
CRAB
CAPTAIN
SELECTED
SPECIALLY
ALL
OVER
COMMAND
TAKES
BOOK
FREE
RECIFE
FOR
GROCER
ASK
»OUR
VA
rs-
XjJj
WL _
unqu a,»»» 37a:
:*i$:?-5?q This la W OH oil Garmenb]•£♦$
Ws
IOnoO
&«£&
faiS
comfort
Sudden
APPY and cool on the
hottest tropical night is
the man who knows the
of AERTEX pyjamas.
changes of temperature
cannot affect him, for the cellular
AERTEX fabric keeps his skin cool
and fresh and insulates him from
heat and cold alike. Sound and re
freshing sleep is the boon bestowed
on the wearer of AERTEX pyjamas
dfg
/KSN^WXSX**®**^***'**^
Rmmn^
tennm
U ’S*X®N®NfcS®X*X*V.*N*N®X«
|«SSiSS?KJSSSSSi;I
%nw#
- i®v*N%>
In two popular qualities—the original 931
and the lower-priced 88 quality.
Obtainable from all Hosiers, Drapers and
Outfitters. In case of difficulty apply to
Mr. H. 0. S. DREW
313/315 FLINDERS LANE,
MELBOURNE, Australia.
Representative of the Cellular Clothing Co.
Ltd., who supplies Wholesale Trade only.
The famous AERTEX open weave. A
down there where the uloo had been, and
staring out before her with thirsty, blood-
shot eyes.
The low, brown huts were gone from the
well near the creek. Rusty iron, and hide,
bleached bones, branches and sticks still
lay about the ground. A piece of tin,
struck by the sun, shone like a planet there
in the dust. But the place was deserted.
No breath of life went up from the chim-
neys; no white hens wandered about the
verandahs. Only the fans of the big wind-
mill moved slightly now and then.
What had happened? Coonardoo won-
dered. They had all gone from Wytaliba,
her own people and the people of Mumae
who made the house, the stockyards and
the windmills.
She walked a little further up from the
creek-bank to where the camp had been.
Scrawny hands reached for branches and
sticks. A fire sprang from them before her,
lipping and sipping at the leaves and shreds
of grass, making a smoke.
Coonardoo. crouched over the fire. She
had come a long way, all the way from the
coast, and was very weary. The arms which
went out to the fire were brown and twisted
like minnerichi, showing the bone through.
So withered and gaunt the face; the great
eyes so sunken and bloodshot —who would
have known this was Coonardoo? Flies
swarmed and sang round her.
There had been something of joy in those
wild eyes as she stood on the creek-bank
at the edge of the trees. But the joy
faded, leaving desolation, the black-out of
ultimate despair.
Her feet were broken with festering sores
after the long, rough journey; and so weak
she was when she fell on the ground the
ants ran up and all over her, swarming,
stinging.
Warmed by the fire, she sat up and looked
about her, with those vague, tragic eyes,
wondering, dismayed and remembering.
She began to sing:
“Towera chinima poodinyn,
Towera jinner viulbeena” ....
Faintly the melody and the words flowed.
Coonardoo was back in her childhood, play-
ing and singing with Youie, turning somer-
saults in the dust, Bardi and You and she.
Mumae was there on the verandah, calling
the children up to receive their pieces
of bread, with jam thick and sweet on them.
Coonardoo sang on. The kangaroos were
coming down from the range, their little
feet dancing in the twilight. Dancing
“Munyinbunna nunki-nunki chungee chun-
gee!”
She shrieked, cursing... was be ing dragged
to a little boat on the river the sea
rocked under her, rocked and rocked!
“Wiah! Wiah!” Coonardoo wailed. She
was screaming again, struggling against the
great, cruel hands which dragged her and
nailed boots that kicked her.
“Wiah! Wiah!” she cried, lost in her
agony, an anguish of consciousness.
Crowded shacks and white huts on piles
seethed in on her; a seaside town with its
sweating, drinking, swarming crowds. Men,
redfaced, lean, yellow, black, tan and tawny,
streamed out of houses, smelling of rotting
fish and the sea.
And then she was walking again—walking
away from the sea, the stench of pearlers
and the close, horrible places they live in.
Away from the men whose faces were like
corned-meat, skin white beneath their filthy
shirts and trousers; yellow men with small,
slant eyes, and the big trooper who blus-
tered and threatened, finding her sick on
the outskirts of the town.
Coonardoo listened quietly with the mask
suffering and experience had taught her to
wear when he said she was to go away. Go
to a place of horror beyond the sea she
hated, the sea which was more cruel than
anything human! Away over and beyond
the line it made against the sky; away from
the earth which still held in its distances
her own country and the uloo of her people!
In her £>anic, a frenzy of fear, she had
turned her back on the town and the sea;
unconsciously, with the instinct of an ani-
mal making for her old feeding-grounds, the
haunt of her tribe, place of her birth and
breeding.
There was happiness in finding it, looking
at it again. To see the chalk-white trunks
of trees beside the dry creek-bed, and the
square-topped hills of that red wedge against
the western sky! On the east the thick, wild
scrubs of the To-morrow Ranges.
It soothed and comforted her to breathe
this air, get the smoke of her fire, smell
the earth where the uloo had spread, and
those strange trees Mumae had planted
about her house.
Coonardoo was glad to be there. She
crouched over her fire, singing her little song
about the kangaroos which came hopping
over the range in the twilight.
She was “close-up finish’m,” she knew, as
the trooper had said. Her body was weak-
ening and rotting away from her. When
she crawled ashore from that pearling lug-
ger, two or three years ago, she had felt
fouled and doomed.
Nothing was left of the clean, straight
aboriginal woman, nothing of her pride and
dignity and grace. She was no longer Coon-
ardoo, but Pearl, the “black pearl” of a
pearler’s crew, and before that she had been
Esmeralda. *
Esmeralda? Her mind wandered. She
was remembering Monty Blood gratefully,
how he had washed and bound up those
wounds on her thigh and breast. But she
could not stay with him. She had wandered
away. Then there was the river and the
pearlers.
And Youie—what had happened to \ ouie
that he should treat her so? Did he not
want her? His eyes said he did. The
smouldering blue of his eyes, as they rested
on her, had held her breathless, unable to
stir.
Coonardoo thought of herself as if she
were a child she had known; one of her own
children perhaps. As if she had died; her
Coonardoo existence had come to an end
that night when Hugh threw her into the
fire.
She screamed, flaring to the memory of
its old agony, the biting physical pain which
had clasped her flesh.
Through all her troubled remembering,
Coonardoo could see that ruckled face so
unlike Hugh’s, distraught by the madness
of his rage. Oblivion overwhelmed her as
when Hugh had dashed his hand across her
face. What had she done? She cowered
away still from the memory, as if she would
slink out of sight at his demand that never
again should he see her face.
Youie had sent her away, driven her far
from the place where she belonged, her
place and the place of her people. She had
gone; his will carrying her, when she did not
know where she was going. Her feet, her
legs, her arms and hands had been obedient
to him; taken her away, wandering through
the ranges, for how long she did not know,
until she walked into Monty’s camp, and
he had looked after her.
“Towera jinner mulbeena
Poodinyoober mulbeena.”
The little song was driving Coonardoo,
driving her memories. She was riding it
as she had ridden her bay mare with the
jetty mane and long, flowing tail. And
Winni, her fat little cooboo from the whirl-
wind, how she longed to see him! Had he
not come to her under the stars when every-
body left her in the camp near the head
of the creek? Crouching down beside her,
he had given her food. Coonardoo rocked
herself, as if he were a baby still and she
were nursing him.
Where was he? Where were her girls?
Charmi was dead, she knew; Beilaba had
been given to Wanna long ago. She had
cooboos of her own now. And where were
they all? What had happened to them?
Chitali, Wanna, Mick, old Joey, Meenie,
Bandogera, Hughie and Phyllis? She would
have liked to see them. Only Youie—had
said never again to let his eyes rest on her!
It was lonely down there by the creek.
White bark of the trees gleamed with the
faces of narlu [spirits]. The trees looked
very tall; their leaves swooped down over
them, heavy and dark.
White cockatoos were settling to roost in
the big gum-trees beside the house. Mumae
was there, Coonardoo told herself. Mumae
would see and know that she, Coonardoo,
had done as Mumae bade her for Youie.
She had looked after and obeyed Youie,
although in some way she had displeased
him so, brought down the torrent of his
anger upon herself.
“Towera jinner mulbeena
Poodinyoober, mulbeena, mulbeena.”
Little feet of the kangaroos were doing
their devil dance' in the twilight. Coonar-
doo’s voice fluttered out; embers of her
fire were burning low. Crouched over them,
a daze held her. From that dreamy and
soothing nothingness, Coonardoo started
suddenly. The fire before her had fallen
into ashes. Blackened sticks lay without
a spark.
She crooned a moment and lay back. Her
arms and legs, falling apart; looked like
those blackened and broken sticks beside
the fire.
[The End.]
My Mother.
We will walk no more by the river,
My mother and I,
Watching the long, green rushes quiver
To the wind's least sigh;
Lingering on by a reedy pool
Where platypus circled in wavelets cool,
And a dragon fly,
With its great round eyes and gauzy wings,
Added a mystic touch to the things
Of our earth and sky.
Old willows making shade for the mill, .
Petulant waters turned from the hill,
Alders in blossom, lilac and may,
Clover and hawthorn, many a day
Brought to a mother, gave to a boy
Poems of nature, pictures of joy.
If by my verses, if from my pen,
Aught I have written lives among men,
She who transplanted deep in my heart
Flowers of Fancy, seedlings of Art,
Wonder and worship, love of the true,
Patience and effort, merits her due....
Heavy my heart was, heavy and sore,
Come by a dim road winding the shore,
Ways we once journeyed sunlit and bright
Travelled forlornly through the long night:
Sad was my spirit coming to keep
Last mourning vigil over her sleep.
We will walk no more by the river,
My mother and I,
Where the timid green rushes quiver
To the wind’s least sigh;
Where willows sweep o’er a shady pool,
And platypus sport in waters cool,
And the dragon fly
Carnes away on its frail, bright wings
Memories fond of departed things
A d glad days gone by.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


0
1928
U'
M
m.
Sa
7*
Murdoch’s Smart
Holiday Wear
IRST and foremost, you will need a
Murdoch “Fugiluxe” (Reg’d) Shirt
for Christmas. “Fugiluxe —Murdoch s own
exclusive material—looks like, wears like, but actually costs
less, than real silk. Tailored in Golf style,
with soft collar to match. Season’s newest
stripe designs. Murdoch’s Price
1416
“Fugiluxe” (Reg’d) Sports and Tennis Shirts for men, 12/6
The ever popular
mm
:v.
, %
The finishing touch to
the Christmas attire!
Murdoch’s ren owned
“Kookaburra” Hats for
men come in “Snap
Brim” shape as illustra-
tion, also “Nail Curl”
and “Prince” styles.
Latest color tones.
Australia’s Finest
Hat Value at,
211-
“Kaberra*’ quality, 25/-; “Star” and “Al” qualities, 35/-; “J. A.
Murdoch” quality—the world's best—so/-.
Murdoch’s Sturdy
Suit Cases
A Murdoch Suit Case will prove indispensable during your
holiday. Polished hide, selected quality, eight capped corners.
Guncase leather-covered handle. Nickel-plated sliding nozzle
locks. Lined. Fitted straps. Steel frame. Drop-back lid.
Size, 20in.
37/6
22in., 41/6
24in., 45/6
26in., 49/6
28in., 53/6
df
Postage paid to your door, except on Suit Cases over 20 inches in size.
These are sent half-freight free to nearest Railway Station or Port.
Kindly address all communications to Desk R.
MURDOCH S
In Park Street Ltd. Sydney
"The World’s Largest Mens and Boys’ Wear Store”
Bank of New Zealand
(Incorporated by Act of General Assembly, 29th July, 1861.)
BANKERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW ZEALAND.
CAPITAL.
Paid Up £6,771,198
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits . . . . 3,732,525
Total Resources £10,503,723
Aggregate Assets at 31st March, 1928
.£49,879,550
HEAD OFFICE WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND.
Directors (four appointed by New Zealand Government, two elected by shareholders):
Sir Gf.orqb Elliot (Chairman). Sir Harold Beauchamp. Richard VV. Gibbs, Esq.
Oliver Nicholson, Esq. Wm. Reece, Esq. Wm. Watson, Esq.
General Manager; H. Buckleton.
LONDON OFFICE: 1 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.1,.
London Board: Alexander Michie (Chairman). Admiral of the Fleet the Right Hon. Earl Jellicoe,
G.C.8., 0.M., G.C.V.O. Alex. Kay, Esq. Sir James Mills. Iy.C.M.G.
Bankers: Bank of England. Midland Bank, Ltd.
Chief Auditor: A, R. W. P. Green. London Auditor: W. C. Sneath.
(Both appointed by New Zealand Government.)
Alcaroa
Alexandra
Apiti
Arrowtown
Ashburton
Auckland
Avondale
Awanui
Awatuna East
Balclutha
Balfour
Birkenhead
Blenheim
Bluff
Bulls
Cambridge
Carterton
Christchurch
Clevedon
Clinton
Clyde
Coromandel
Cromwell
Dannevirke
Darfield
Dargaville
Devonport
Dominion Road
(Auckland)
Drury
Dunedin
Dunedin North
Eketahuna
F.llerslie
Eltham
Fairlie
Featherston
Feilding
Foxton
Geraldine
Gisborne
BRANCHES
Gore
Grey mouth
Greytown
Hamilton
Hamilton North
Hampden
Hastings
Havelock
Hawera
Helensville
Henderson
Ileriot
Hikurangi
Hikutaia
Hokitika
I-lunterville
Huntly
Inglewood
Invercargill
Kaiapoi
Kaikohe
Ivaikoura
Kaipara Flats
Kaitaia
Kaitangata
Kaponga
Ivatilcati
Kawhia
Kelso
Kilbirnie
(Wellington)
Kimbolton
Kohukohu
Kumara
Lauder
Lawrence
Leeston
Levin
Little River
Lower High St.
(Christchurch)
AND AGENCIES in NEW ZEALAND:
Lower Hutt
Lumsden
Lyttelton
Mamaku
Manaia
Manakau
Mangaweka
Manurewa
Martinborough
Marton
Masterton
Matamata
Mataura
Matawai
Methven
Middlemarch
Miller’s Flat
Milton
Morrinsville
Mosgiel
Motu
Motueka
Mount Albert
Mount Eden
(Auckland)
Murchison .
Napier
Naseby
Nelson
New Brighton
(Christchurch)
New Lynn
(Auckland)
New Plymouth
Newmarket
Newton
(Auckland)
Ngaruawahia
Ngatea
Nightcaps
North End
(Wellington)
Oamaru
Ohaeawal
Ohakune
Ohura
Okato
Omakau
Onehunga
Onga Onga
(Waipawa)
Opotiki
Opunalce
Orepuki
Ormondville
Otahuhu
Otaki
Otane
Otautau
Otorohanga
Outram
Owaka
Oxford
Paeroa
Pahiatua
Palmerston
(Otago)
Palmerston
North
Papakura
Paparoa
Papatoetoe
Patea
Petone
Picton
Pio Pio
Pleasant Point
Pongaroa
Ponsonby
Port Chalmers
Pukekohe
Putaruru
Queenstown
Raetihi
Rahotu
Rakaia
ltanfurly
Itangiora
Reefton
Remuera
lticcarton
(Christchurch)
Richmond
Riversdale
Riverton
Rongotea
Ross
Rotorua
Rotorua North
Roxburgh
Ruawai
Sanson
Shannon
Southbridge
South Dunedin
Stratford
Sydenham
Symonds street
(Auckland)
Taihape
Taltaka, Nelson
Takapau, H.B.
Takapuna
Taneatua
Tapanui
Taumarunui
Tauranga
Te Araroa
Te Aro
(Wellington)
Te Aroha
Te Awamutu
Te liopuru
Te Kuiti
Temuka
Te Puke
Thames
Thornbury •
Timaru
Tirau
Tokomaru Bay
Tuakau
Turua
Urenui
Waharoa
Waihi
Waikaka
Waikari
Waikouaiti
Waimana
Waimate
Waipawa
Waipukurau
Wairoa
Waitahuna
Waitakaruru
Waitara
Waitoa
Waiuku
Wakefield
Walton
Wanganui
Warkwoi th
Wellington
Wellington
South
Wellsford
Westport
Whakatane
Whangarei
Win ton
Woodville
Wyndham
BRANCHES IN AUSTRALIA:
MELBOURNE (Victoria): 347 Collins Street.
Local Director: Sir John Higgins, K.C.M.G.
BRANCHES IN FIJI— SUVA and LEVUKA.
SYDNEY (N.S.W.): 339 George Street.
Local Director: Alexander Jobson, Esq.
BRANCH IN SAMOA—APIA.
BANK OF NEW ZEALAND has agents m every part of Great Britain and Ireland; also
throughout Australia and Tasmania. It has also Agents throughout Europe, India, China, Japan and
other parts of the East; Honolulu, North and South America, Africa, etc.
DRAFTS are issued and Credits granted at any office upon any other Branch of the Bank, or
upon its British or Foreign Agents.
LETTERS OF CREDIT are issued for the use of travellers, negotiable in all parts of the world.
BILLS upon any part of the Dominion, or wherever the Bank has Branches or Correspondents in
Australia or elsewhere, are negotiated, and money collected for constituents.
DEPOSITS —Current rates of Interest given.
Every description of Banking business within the Dominion, or between New Zealand and Australia,
Great Britain and Europe, India. China, Japan, America. Africa, etc., transacted on favourable terms.
What Better Gift
for Christmas
than a year’s subscription to
THE BULLETIN or the
WOMAN’S MIRROR?
During the year four full-length
novels will be printed in each
paper in serial form.
If your friend is fond of reading,
here is an inexpensive gift that,
reaching him or her every week,
will continue to bring remem-
brance and give pleasure
throughout the year.
Subscription rates, posted to any address in Australasia
for 12 months:—
“The Bulletin,” £l/4/- The “Woman’s Mirror,” 13/-
To any address overseas—
“ The Bulletin,” £l/10/- The “Woman’s Mirror,” 15/-


Children
enjoy
gdf
it makes them
Well and strona
In 4 sizes
of ell Chemists «, Stores
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and S 7
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/6.
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’Hote Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 15/-, or
it la carte, minimum, 15/-
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of_ six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Jaclc Woods’ Ambassadors Dance
Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
The Black Box
BY ARTHUR GROOM.
MYOOLOO was cunning.
At the age of ten or eleven he had
been placed in a mission station, and
taught to say the Lord’s Prayer. Two years
later he cleared away with Yarry, a queer,
undersized aboriginal of about eighteen.
In the mission station Yarry had learned
nothing but laziness. His brain was too
sluggish to grasp anything. He could not
think for himself. His actions were the
result of instinct, and he preferred to be a
follower. But Myooloo was born with much
more than average aboriginal wits. He was
darker than most of his people, and his
bloodshot eyes held the cunning of the prey-
ing animal—the hereditary cunning of the
greatest hunters among his dark forefathers,
coupled with a slight and misplaced know-
ledge of the ways of white men.
Myooloo walked quietly beside a twisted
cattle-pad through thick, stunted gidya.
Something warned him not to walk on the
pad. He did not want any white men to
know his movements. He could get to the
Cullen Waterhole just as quickly by walk-
ing on hard ground parallel with the track;
and Yarry was waiting for him there —
Yarry, whom he had not seen for three
years. He would be able to make good use of
Yarry, for thought of revenge angered
Myooloo’s mind.
That selector on Cullen Creek, Jim Croft
—Myooloo’s eyes closed a little at the re-
collection. Jim Croft had caused him to
be put in gaol; and gaol had been a place
where hard work was the order of the day;
much harder work than ever Jim Croft had
given him.
It made a iong tale 1 . He and Yarry had
agreed to work for Jim Croft, and had been
assigned to him under Permit; but Myooloo’s
nature rebelled against even the small amount
of work Jim Croft ordered him to do. In his
revolt lie. had stolen many things, and had
speared one of Jim Croft’s bullocks at a
spot nine miles north of the little homestead;
and he had made an unsuccessful attempt
to club Jim Croft from behind. Yarry had
backed him up in a half-hearted way; but,
then, Yarry was not to be blamed, so Jim
Croft had declared at the white man’s
court many days later. As a result Larry
had been let go to wander and to hunt near
the Ijis Cullen Waterhole, and Myooloo had
been* forced to wheel many hundreds of
barrowloads of sand for no reason whatever,
and had been locked up at night.
So Myooloo’s mind had now no room for
thought of anything except revenge; and as
lie glided softly along beside the cattle-pad
he planned thoroughly. He had heard from
old Weeumbah, of the Arunya tribe, on the
Rankine River, that Jim Croft had gone
away to the Big City to marry a white
woman and bring her back to live with him.
Old Weeumbah had also heard that Croft
and his white woman were due to cross the
border any time within a few days, and
they were to come in a new motor-car.
Old Weeumbah had signified his fear of
motor-cars —“All-day-runabout-debil-debil”—
but Myooloo scorned such fear. He had him-
self once ridden in a motor-car. He knew all
about white man’s magic. Yarry, for in-
stance, believed debil-debils existed even in
the white man’s camp-oven. He pitied
Yarry for his poor training.
The gidya opened, and the Cullen Waterhole
glistened beneath a low, hot sun. It was very
long and surrounded by coolabah-trees. The
stench of a few dead cattle on its boggy
banks clouded the air a little; but Myooloo
scarcely noticed it. His keen eyes were
searching for sign of Yarry.' He paused be-
side a dead tree and searched keenly up and
down the sheet of water. He saw a broken
twig pointing downwards some two hundred
yards away on the opposite bank. He entered
the water silently, his naked black body
glistening dully in the sun until the water
grew deep and he swam silently. He had
been taught to swim the wfliite man’s side-
stroke years before at the mission station,
and it was one thing he had learnt well.
The broken twig was a sign. He turned at
right angles from the waterhole into low
gidya. Half a mile he walked with a soft,
sliding action, then paused, one leg forward
uncertainly, head held still. A soft tap-tap-
tap came through the trees. Yarry was cor-
roboreeing with gidya sticks.
For a few seconds Myooloo stood watch-
ing from behind a low tree; then he ad-
vanced. Yarry had a new gin. She rose and
slid silently away. It was her duty.
“Where you come from, Myooloo?” Yarry
muttered the question in the tongue of their
tribe.
“White-man gaol,” Myooloo answered gut-
turally. “Old Weeumbah tell me all about
you waiting here.”
“Where you going, Myooloo?”
Myooloo looked straight at Yarry. His
eyes were as cold as a snake’s.
“To kill Jim Croft.... You afraid?”
Yarry’s heavy face showed a trace of fear.
“Jim Croft gone away to get missus,” he
declared.
“Weeumbah tell me that. Spear missus
tod. She belong to Jim Croft.”
Yarry was disturbed. He had led a peace-
ful life during the three years of Myooloo’s
imprisonment. He protested in a roundabout
fashion that it was risky to try to spear
two people at once. Had Myooloo forgotten
the white man’s gun?
But as Yarry tried to explain he found
Myooloo’s bloodshot gaze boring into him,
binding his mind. Yarry was again the
unthinking follower. His brain was exhausted
by his short attempt at explanation. His
gnarled black hands flopped on his crossed
legs.
“You come with me,” Myooloo declared at
last. “You spear white woman. We sit
down now and talk.”
For more than an hour Myooloo talked and
planned, and his plan was full of cunning.
He repeated it slowly again and again to
Yarry until it soaked deep into Yarry’s brain.
There was little to remember. Yarry had
to hide with Myooloo, and, at the moment
Myooloo speared Jim Croft, Yarry was to
spear the white woman.
Just before dawn Myooloo and Yarry,
with Yarry’s gin following silently at a dis-
“His spear went back ready in its wimmera, and Yarry reached back also.”
tance, approached Jim Croft’s homestead on
the edge of the great Borehole Plain.
The homestead was situated in a place
which gave Myooloo’s plan a promise of
safety. It was nothing more than a four-
roomed iron hut at the foot of a low
rise well covered with turkey-bush and spini-
fex. Within fifty feet of the building the
superstructure of a sub-artesian bore reared
thirty feet into the air. Fifty yards farther
away a strong set of horse-yards and a
harness-shed offered more shelter.
Myooloo led the way slowly out on to the
small rise above the homestead.
The place was deserted. “We wait here,”
he declared.
His plan was perfect. They were well
hidden from below, and a spear-throw of
fifty feet would be sufficient. A hard, nar-
row path led from the back door of the
small house to an open kitchen twenty feet
away. Myooloo had often had to carry
heavy logs to the fire. The memory goaded
him.
Half-way between the fireplace and the
building Jim Croft had erected a frail box-
wood table on which he used to wash his
dishes. No doubt, when his white woman
arrived with him, they would carry on just
as he had done before. They would cer-
tainly have to do so at first, until they
found time to rearrange matters. Myooloo
had thought it all out —had even thought of
emergency tactics in case his original plan
failed. Jim Croft had always worked at the
little table with his back turned towards
the sharp rise behind. A spear in the back
would be a simple matter, a very simple
matter; and Myooloo knew from his acquaint-
ance with white people that, being newly
married, they would work very close together
for a time.
Myooloo was proud of his plan. He chided
Yarry for liis fear of the motor-car and other
white-man things. “White man can’t frighten
me!” he declared, and thumped his powerful
chest. “I know all about motor-car. I
know all about white-man yabber on tele-
phone. White man’s guns not magic. White
man’s guns only war-tilings—not debil-debil
at all.”
Yarry remained dubious; but Myooloo
knew that he would do as he was told.
Two days later, and just before midday, a
black blot twisted on to the faint track across
the plain almost twenty miles distant.
Yarry’s gin saw it first in a cloud of dust
from where she had been watching. She
warned Yarry, who was resting with Myoo-
loo beneath the shade of a large bush well
back over the top of the rise.
Myooloo gruffly ordered her away. She
went slowly, well back into the thickness of
the gidya.
Myooloo led down to the hiding-place.
They had plenty of time. He inspected the
spears, inspected the wimmeras by which the
spears were thrown, and waited, with Yarry
beside him.
Slowly the car wended its way across the
broad plain. In the slight hollows it became
a prey to heat mirage, until it resembled a
ship on a dead sea. Myooloo watched 'it.
His black face seemed expressionless; but his
eyes gleamed queerly. He turned and ques-
tioned Yarry, exercised him, made sure he
knew his part of the act.
“What you have to do?” he asked later.
“When you spear Jim Croft I spear white
woman,” Yarry answered readily. It was
all he had to remember, and it was almost
impossible for him to fail. If lie did, Myoo-
loo had a second and a third spear ready.
Yarry stirred as the hum of the car grew
on the warm air, but he held his fear. He
trembled as the sun glistened vividly on the
windscreen, and then he heard Myooloo’s
deep chuckle.
“That not white-man magic. That only
sun play about with glass.” Contempt slur-
red Myooloo’s voice.
The car stopped at the horse-paddock gate
a quarter of a mile to the south; a woman
got out, opened the gate for the car to pass
through, and then the car came on again.
A minute later it pulled up at the far side
of the house.
The sound of laughter floated up to Myoo-
loo and Yarry. Myooloo stiffened. He eased
a path of light through the thick low bush
before him. He glanced overhead at the sun.
Probably he would have to wait many hours
before he could get them to the little table,
yet that was the only safe place to spear
them. He and Yarry would spear to kill, and
they would not miss.
Jim Croft and his wife were bound to
stand before the table sooner or later —pro-
bably in preparation of their first meal. If
they did not do so before dark Myooloo could
conic back with Yarra to-morrow. He could
not spear through the dark. Darkness shel-
tered terrible spirits. Debil-debilp went
abroad by night. But daylight was a dif-
ferent matter. Had he not spent many days
in a mission station? Had he not seen the
white man’s motor-cars, his steam engines
on tanks, his windmills, his cooking things?
He had once been afraid of these; but there
was no magic about them. Yet by night an
old hereditary fear of all things unusual
gripped him. By night he had to be careful
lest the spirits of his forefathers discover
him. Yarry was the same, only worse.
The man and the woman appeared at the
little back door. They stood arm in arm.
He was showing her things. His hand waved.
here and there; and his face was happy and
proud. She listened to him intently, lead-
ing towards him a little, glancing up at his
face with a quick, understanding smile. She
had dark hair. They walked to the little
table, passed it quickly, paused at the open
fireplace, then returned into the house.
All that afternoon Myooloo watched.
Nothing escaped his eyes. Yarry crouched
behind him.
Jim Croft unloaded things from the car
—many, many things. His wife moved lightly
about and put pots and pans before the
fireplace in which jim Croft had lit a big
fire.
Later. Jim Croft came close to the rise,
turned his back and commenced to chop wood.
Myooloo’s hand gripped his wimmera tight;
his fingers closed over the spear. He could
spear Jim Croft now. It would be easy, so
easy. But his woman was inside, and sup-
pose she had a gun? A gun was not magic;
but it could kill —quicker than a spear.
Myooloo waited. The sun sank low, and
long shadows commenced to creep. The two
people came and went; at times they stood
together, but always in the wrong position.
Myooloo wa*tclied closely. He liacl patience.
He could come again to-morrow. They would
not discover him. If they got too close he
could spear them in their tracks.
The woman walked out from the house,
spread a white cloth on the boxwood table
and placed eating things upou it. Myooloo’s
brain thrummed a little. It would not be
long now.
Next she brought out two wooden chairs,
placed them at the table; then a petrol-case;
after that a black box with glistening corners.
She placed this upon the case. Myooloo
stiffened a little. The black box was some-
thing new. He had never seen anything
exactly like it in all his life.
The woman busied herself with tea things
near the fire for a while, and then Jim Croft
joined her. He turned his attention to the
black box.
“Tea in the open will be a change for you
—eh. Bet?” His voice was healthy. “We’ll
build a proper dining-room and kitchen soon.”
He raised the lid of fhe black box. Myo.o-
-100 watched keenly. If only the woman
would stand beside Jim Croft now! She
seemed to be growing interested. The lid of
the box stayed up, and metal things glistened
inside.
“Come and pick out what you want. Bet!”
Jim Croft raised his head and thrust his hand
into the black thing.
Myooloo touched Yarry on the thigh. The
time had almost come.
The woman approached, brought forth a
black, flat, round thing which shone. Jim
Croft put it on a green disc within the
thing.
Myooloo drew a deep breath and his face
hardened. His spear went back ready in
its wimmera, and Yarry reached back also.
Down below Jim Croft and his wife stoo.d
almost together before the table. The woman
moved a little, just as Myooloo’s long spear
reached back the full length of his arm.
Then something sounded which froze Myoo-
loo’s mind to ice and set his limbs quiver-
ing. Laughter sounded through the air—
loud man-laughter at Myooloo. His hand
gripped ljis wimmera as though nailed to
it. The laughter grew, and the man and the
woman were looking at the black box. They
were smiling, otherwise their faces expressed
no movement.
Myooloo felt a queer fear. This was a
new laughter. There was something unnatu-
ral about it. His spear drooped a little.
Yarry had cowered almost to the ground.
The laughter did not cease. It continued
on. The woman sat down in a chair. Then
the man turned quickly. He walked into
the house and left his laughter behind!
Yarry and Myooloo screamed in terror and
fled.


Bonking, Public Companies, etc,
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,369,065
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. H. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 1 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at, all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,525
T\ D ACTC on Australia, New
U Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
GRANTS
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking
interest for
periods
business.
UNITED
THE
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE § HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire Insurances <lffccte<l on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
——————— Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
.THINK OF
gd
' SCHUTE,
BELL&O Ltd.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
y\LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
**• should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand.
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can bo obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
®lje
fg
master
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
in
THE REGISTER,
which is read by all classes,
Proprietors:
W. K. THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
ERIC N. BIRKS, JJ.S.W. Representative.
Telephone XhlB7.
0. N. BEDNALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.
Shipping, etc.
That Trip of Yours!
NS
r
?
Full particulars and literature of
either Excursion from the
Union Steam Ship Co.,
247 George St., Sydney.
59 William St., Melbourne, Cl.
JOINING either giant liner—
Aorangi or Niagara—at Syd-
ney, Australians can now enjoy
three delightful months at a
small excursion cost, on the blue
Pacific and in Honolulu—gem
city of Hawaii. Return fares are
only £75 and £55.
The liner also calls at Auckland,
New Zealand, and at Suva.
As a tempting alternative take
one of the fine fleet of the Union
Company, via Wellington, to
Rarotonga and Papeete, at a
return excursion cost of only
£55 and £4O.
CANADIAN
AUSTRALASIAN
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by All Steamship Lines.
Choice of Any Route.
Without Extra Charge.
ENGLAND
FRANCE
ITALY
GERMANY
From AUSTRALIA
AMERICA
CANADA
MEXICO
AFRICA
JAPAN
EGYPT
INDIA
CHINA
Also attractive tours to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji,
BUSINESS TRIPS. PLEASURE CRUISES.
AUSTRALIA TO
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly sailings maintained by the popu-
lar steamers “MARELLA” and “MALA-
BAR” from Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane, via Queensland Ports, Torres
Strait, Darwin, etc.
For Reservations and Information apply
1
<-:s2
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. And .11 Branch o«c».
M
-SfcKf FOLLOW THIS SIGN FOR PROFITS
TO THE
LEIPZIG SPRING FAIR GERMANY),
With GREAT ENGINEERING AND BUILDING FAIRS, Commencing March 3, 1929
Profitable to the Business Man on account of the payable agencies offering.
Profitable to the Pleasure Seeker, as the beauty of Springtime in Germany, and
the wonderment of the Fair is a sight worth seeing. Advice and Letters of Intro-
duction courteously given entirely free.
Authorised Representative: LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 6 Dailey Street, Sydney. ’Phones: 84006, MW2201.
COOL OFF IN TASMANIA
A FORTNIGHT’S HOLIDAY IN TASMANIA
Including Fares, Accommodation, Local Sight-Seeing, etc., from
£24/1/-
XMAS SAILINGS TO HOBART
T.S.S. ZEALANDIA (7000 tons), DECEMBER 19 and 24,
JANUARY 2 and 9.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
OCEAN HOUSE, 34 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 181).
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .
RESERVE LIABILITY
df
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; W. E. Southerden, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—r-George Street. Sydney London Office—29 Threadneedle Street. E.C. 2.
536 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings— Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
Vessel.
KAROOLA
(All Ports
inc. Albany)
ORMISTON
(Melb. only).
CANBERRA
(Melb. onlv).
BOMBALA
(All Ports).
ORUNGAL
(Melb. only)
KATOOMBA
(All Ports
inc. Albany)
DIMBOOLA
(AH Ports).
KANOWNA
(Melb. only)
Sydney Agents.
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith Ltd.
58 Margaret St
Howard Smith Ltd.
58 Margaret St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn. Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street.
Melbourne S.S. Co.
Ltd., Clarence
& Barrack Sts.
Howard Smith Ltd.
58 Margaret St.
FOK BRISBANE, MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
gdf
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ascanius. . . 10,048 tons, Jan. 7
tßunic 12,500 „ Jan. 22
tEuripides . . 15,000 ~ Feb. 5
*Nestor 15,000 „ Mar. 18
iCeramic .. . 18,500 ~ March 26
f Demosthenes 11,500 ~ April 16
*Ulysses. .. . 15,000 ~ May 13
‘•'First class only. i'First and Third class.
i:“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
!
Joint
Agents
P. & 0. BRANCH SERVICE
ONE CLASS ONLY.
MONTHLY SERVICE.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown
To LONDON, via Colombo, Port Said
and Suez Canal
VIA SOUTH AFRICA. I VIA SUEZ CANAL.
BALLARAT Sails Dec. 22 | 1929.
1929. | BARR ABOOL Sails Feb. 27
BENDIGO „ Jan. IS ! BENALLA „ April 1
BERRIMA ~ Feb. 1 J /
Fares: To South Africa, £2l to £27
To London via Suez, £3B to £54
To London via Cape, £37 to £53
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.,
Tel. 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE.via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
.Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
* Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerLyE
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamshi,] i
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars appIyHUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals v ith every subject of
interest to women.


Rexona! Best for
Summer Skin
Troubles
In the summer-time we all suffer more or less from some skin trouble,
such as Rashes, Boils, Ulcers, Sores, Stings of Insects, Pimples, or perhaps
even Eczema. These skin eruptions are dangerous if neglected, and might
become chronic. You must give them careful attention. There is no
better treatment than to apply Rexona, the Rapid Healer. This is an
antiseptic ointment, containing .just the right cooling, soothing and healing
properties that are needed to rid your skin of all impurities. Rexona
soothes pain, builds new tissues, and renews and heals the skin. The
triangular pot of Rexona, with its healing, soft green ointment, should be
kept handy on the dressing-table, so that every member of the family can
have access to its wonderful healing powers.
Rexona
Jhe Rapid
flealer
A !
MEDICINE
CHEST
W fl
,#Cooling „
tg .Soothing
W Healing
mnliseplic Ointment
i.irifies Jl Absolutely^
/
/£t
ydnliseptic Ointment^
Jn,irifi es -? Absolutely
*£ Heals* Reliable
THE RAPID HEALER
r A Reliable Healer for all Eruptions
and Irritations of the skin. Eczema. Sores. Cuts.
Burns. Bruises, Sores. Sciatica, Piles. Stings of Insects
and all kinds of Inflammalion.
REXONA DEP T SHELDON DRUG C° L T PSYDNEY.
IN ITSELF
THE TRIANGULAR BOX'
fjive Chocolates this
|Cl)rislUlUS
m
MX
8
K-'.'A
v -« 4 V V
Uf 'l**
i/;.
Vvfw.M.
uga
<53
i\w
Mf
(Vn<
z*#
but be sure they’re
Hilller's
■ i*i*te*p
\° •*> . v''
V v ' \)°
V>
\A C
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-,
10/-, 12/6, 20/-,
30/- and 37/6.
Ask to see Hillier’s fine
range of Beautiful Fancy
Boxes, Baskets
and Caskets up to £5/5/-
dneStHiUieA
162-166 PITT STREET.
boiler-house and ask Bill to give you some
hot water.”
“I’ll help you bathe it,” Lois volunteered
eagerly.
Jasper made bashful protest. “Don’t be
silly. I can do it.”
The manager, with a grin, gave the boy a
little push. “Let her, if she wants to.” He
raised his voice abruptly. “Some of you
men get these kids their whey, will you?
Y u, Charlie.”
Seated on a packing case in the boiler-
house, Jasper awkwardly submitted his cheek
to the girl’s fingers. Her child’s eyes were
full of contrition.
“It’s stopped bleeding,” she told him hope-
fully. Without warning she began to laugh,
tilting her small chin. “Oh Jasper, you
do look funny.” But immediately she was
again gravely concerned. “You’ll promise
to come, though, won’t you?”
“Come where?” Jasper asked bluntly. He
was coloring darkly.
“Don’t be mean. Jasper, father’s giving
me a party next Sunday. You’ll come,
won’t you? I love parties, don’t you?”
Jasper confessed: “I’ve never had one.”
“They’re such fun,” Lois said delightedly.
“I’ve been to three. But I’ve never had
one for my really own. Jasper, will you
come?”
He Avas red with pleasure at the thought
of it. But all at once the vision of Musk
Ridge intruded. Now, of all times, it was
impossible. Now that his uncle was
sick; all the work of the place to do! He
said dejectedly: “I can’t. You know how
I’d like to. If it wasn’t for the milking”
Lois clapped her hands at him.
“But Albert thought of that for me. It’s
to be between milkings, Jasper. There’ll
be plenty of time to get back. And Mr.
Hume is coining. He knows all kinds, of
games. Do come.”
A rush of optimism swept him. “I’ll get
round aunt, somehow, Lois. She’ll help
me with the milking.”
He thought of it as he drove the brown
mare to the paddock where she grazed for-
tuitously during his school-hours. A party
must be a wonderful experience. His starved
childhood cried out to know the beauty of
it. Games, and a host of fun, and things
to eat! Something gripped his heart, forc-
ing the tears to his eyes. He thought, in
a kind of terror: “But supposing aunt won’t
let me—doesn’t understand?”
His hands shook as he spilled the chaff
for the brown mare.
CHAPTER IV.
The School.
The damp logs on the open brick hearth
filled the small schoolroom with a thin
haze of smoke. What of flame there was
had no appreciable effect upon the cold of
the room. Four rows of chilled, woebegone
faces were making a brave attempt at
interest in the sum which the teacher, Miss
Sprott, was working out in chalk upon the
blackboard.
Miss Sprott was a thin, anaemic-looking
woman of thirty or so. Her expression, if
prim and a little soured, was not unkindly.
She had gaunt cheekbones, each showing
a tin)' patch of red at the centre; her nose
was straight and thin, above a straight and
thin-lipped mouth; her weak blue eyes con-
tinually watered behind their old-fashioned
spectacles; her hair, which was mouse-
colored and scanty, was drawn into a tight
knob at the back of her head.
Jasper, treading one foot against the
other in an effort to combat their madden-
ing irritation, was finding it almost impos-
sible to understand the arithmetical argu-
ment. At all times he disliked figures; to-
day he hated them. His attention wandered
from the lesson to Miss Sprott herself. Miss
Sprott’s voice was beautiful; full of light
and shade; vibrant with little bell-like
echoes. It was her one physical quality that
instantly charmed. Singing voice, most
curiously, she had not; but her speaking
voice, even in the stress of sharp emotion,
was a magically lovely thing. It lifted her
at once from the commonplace of her
appearance to a sweet and oddly spiritual
consequence. It was the voice of a bird,
of a lover.
Intuition largely accounted for Jasper’s
championing of Miss Sprott. The school in
general found a ribald amusement —as is
the unreckoning way of sex at play towards
sex in labor—in the half-furtive courtship
of the teacher on the part of Lois Beau-
ment’s half-brother, Albert. The silent,
awkward farmer and the thin, prim school-
mistress were, in the Guruwa idiom, very
obviously “liking each other.” Youth
accepted this at its face value, with no
very great concern for the whispered rumor
that Albert Beaument’s father, old Amos,
upon whom the young man was utterly
dependent, refused to make marriage pos-
sible. Their elders, however, were not blind
to the tragedy in making. Amos Beaument
belonged to a class of farmer-father which
is the shame of the Mallee wheatlands and
the Wimmera, no less than the hills and
plains of Gippsland. Suspicious, covetous,
mean and unjust, Amos Beaument with-
held from his son any vestige of owner-
ship in the flourishing property which that
son had toiled for, almost from the time he
learned to toddle. He paid Albert less
wages than a hired man, while demanding
double service and unflagging interest. Pro-
test and plea were alike disregarded. Rebel-
lion was met with threat of disinheritance.
These dulled, embittered victims of a
father’s greed and chicanery! Heavy-faced
and heavy-hearted, with stooping shoulders
and plodding feet; robbed of their manhood
and their money; seeing their youth pass
and their sweethearts taken by others;
waiting helplessly for the home they have
earned a score of times over; waiting for the
children whose phantom fingers drag more
and more despairingly at the chords of their
being; waiting “for the damned old man to
die”!
Jasper at one end of the chain; Albert
Beaument at the other!
Recess came almost before Jasper realised
that the hated sums were vanquished for
the day, at least. He followed the other
children out into the flooding sunshine,
where his swollen eye became at once the
centre of interest.
Jasper, uncomfortably aware of Lois’s
pitying glances, welcomed an outburst on the
part of his assailant’s sister, Cora Harris.
“Tod’s always trying to bully someone,”
Cora informed the playground. “He tries
it with me, but I kick his shins. Don’t
you mind, Jasper.”
“I don’t,” said Jasper.
Somehow her slow smile always irritated
him. Cora was two years older than him-
self. She was tall and well made, over-
developed for her age, with a euriously-
languid movement of her limbs. Her eyes
were very large and blue, and her mouth
was large also and full-lipped. Her hair
was a dark red.
“Since Tod’s left school,” she said, “he
thinks lie’s grown-up. Pooh! I’m leaving
myself, the end of this year.”
The bell rang, and they were presently
at lessons again. The dinner-hour came.
And then more lessons. Jasper, half-dozing,
became aware of Miss Sprott’s patiently-
reproving voice.
“Tommy Brett, I’m sure you’re not
attending.”
Jasper saw that the tiny boy’s eyes were
swimming with sleep.
“Yes, Miss'”
“How can you expect to learn”
But already his fair head was down again,
lids twitching over drugged eyeballs. The
rest of the school looked at him gravely,
understandingly. Jasper said apologetically,
out of the little silence: “His brother
Bennie’s sick, Miss, and he has to milk
double. Shall I prod him?”
Miss Sprott did not reply for a second.
She was breathing quickly, and her nose
seemed somehow to be very red, and her
mouth wasn’t steady. She said, with a
faint tremor in her low voice: “No. Don’t
wake him. The poor baby!”
Jasper had an impression that other
words—words that were full of passion—had
barely escaped utterance. . Miss Sprott’s
mouth had turned to a rigid line, and the
red spots on her cheeks were like tiny
flames.
By the time school was over she was her
normally-collected self once more. Jasper
gathered, however, as he walked with her
towards the home of Joe and Mrs. Joe,
where she boarded, that thought of Tommy
Brett was still with her, for she said
abruptly, as he halted at the turn-off to the
factory: “Jasper, have you ever thought
what you wish to do when you are a grown
man?”
Jasper said, sucking at his lip: “Not
exactly, Miss Sprott. Except that I mean
to get on.”
She nodded.
“I suppose I ought not to say it, Jasper,
but some phases of 'country life—life here,
in Guruwa—make me want to scream. There
are things that are wicked.”
Jasper wasn’t much impre.ssed. He
thought mostly of the party that was to
be for Sunday as he drove the brown
mare homewards. He wondered if there
would really be as much cake as would
satisfy him. He didn’t see how it was
possible to have a surfeit of cake—real
cake, like you saw in the advertisements
sometimes. With icing on it. And straw-
berry jam!
He was nearly home before he discovered
that he had forgotten to ask about the
flour that his aunt wanted. He began to
have qualms lest his forgetfulness would
spoil hns chance of going to Lois’s party.
But his aunt made no complaint when he
stammered his confession. She just crept
aside, dragging her “game” leg.
His uncle was away from home. Jasper
loosed the brown mare and went to get the
cows in. There was no escape from vV
work of the farm. A rattle of tins at his
back told him that his aunt had started
to feed the whey he had brought to the
three lean pigs behind the barn.
CHAPTER V.
The Bush Parson.
Jasper’s aunt had said, in the impersonal,
half-afraid voice that was now her settled
habit: “Jasper dear, I know it’s Saturday,
and you’ve worked so hard; but uncle might
come home at any time. You know how
angry he gets and the ferns do want
cutting.”
He held out his hands in a sort of dumb
appeal: fingers swollen and cracked with
chilblains, and the backs of his knuckles
pimpled with milk-rot.
“Jaspie, you need only pretend. Dear,
just, think what a lovely time you’ll have
at Lois’s party to-morrow. I’ll help you
with the cows.”
And so there he was—pretending. Better
so, he had decided, than run risk of his
uncle’s black fury. Once he had beaten
(Continued on next page.)


The great success of Zam-Buk for all skirl
troubles lies in its original and valuable formula.
Zam-Buk contains certain extracts of herbal
origin, so blended as to bring out amazing heal-
ing power. Directly this refined balm is applied
it soaks into the tissues, thereby healing below
as well as on the skin’s surface.
GREATEST
Zam-Buk is most soothing and a safe anti-
septic. It kills and excludes the germs of fester-
ing and blood-poison. Zam-Buk stops pain,
allays inflammation and reduces swelling. The
skin is soon rid of all pus and impurity by
Zam-Buk, which is a splendid healer for cuts,
wounds and sores of all kinds.
Zam-Buk swiftly clears the skin of rashes,
pimples, etc., and it gets at the root of obstinate
ulcers, eczema, piles, poisoned sores, scalp dis-
eases and other serious ailments for which coarse
lardy ointments and salves are quite useless.
Zam-Buk is the last word in antiseptic healing
and is aptly described as “A Surgery in a Two-
inch Box.” Of all chemists, D 6 box or 3/6 &
CONTAINS
NO LARb & NO OTHER
ANIMAL OIL or FAT.
GP eAT «*iftf
CUTS •
BRUISES BURNS
SCALDS SPRAINS PILES
PIMPLES • ECZEMA • BAD LEGS
ULCERS ■ RINGWORM CHAPPED HANDS
RASHES SORES • INSECT BITES' CHAFINGS
lILBLAINS • RHEUMATISM ' COLD SORES -/7S
l//Vf(?i/AU.£O ro# SPORTSMEN
ffUB /r //v"
■^WocATiO]^;
Proprietors
3*
m
Possessing a high and defi-
nite proportion of the active
properties that have made
the Zam-Buk healing halm
so famous, Zam-Buk Soap
'amßuk Soap
SCPICIWAL A TOII.IT.
well merits its claim to be the most richly-medicated soap in the world.
Its regular use soothes and clears the skin and makes it soft and pliable.
Used as s shampoo Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap keeps the scalp hygienic
and healthy. Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap is also highly recommended
for baby’s bath on account of its purity and refinement. In single 1/-
tablets, or box of three, 2/10.
Jasper with a leather trace because of a
spilt- bucket of milk.
The weary guillotine of the fern-hook was
powerless against the snake-like rhizomes
that writhed a tenebrous passage beneath
the soil where he rested. From every
bud and joint and spur hidden from his
sight the evil thrust itself anew in tendrils
of exquisite green frondule, frosted over
with myriad vegetable hairs that resembled
microscopic threads of finely-spun glass,
terminating in ruddy nodules that slowly
unwound into a gossamer of shrinking
foliage. The leaves of this devil’s miracle
were damp and drooping with the sweat
of their own sap, as the wings of a butter-
fly are moist with the agony of cocoon labor.
Jasper, face downwards in the bright-
green curse of it, considered stolidly of his
experience. Close at hand was a riot of
old fern, rearing itself with the poisonous
arrogance of conquest. For a season tins
patch had evaded the fern-hook. Its ugli-
ness was the color of dried blood: stems
brittle and crabbed with age; fronds broken
and crushed, and sprinkling a red leprosy
of decay. So, the boy knew', would the new-
spawned nodules of fern all around him
attain to the full vigor of their hurt,
unless endlessly cut down. A year since,
the land where he lay had been good grass-
land. Now there was no grass at all. The
bracken had strangled it. And so, but for
man’s everlasting sweat, must it strangle
all Musk Ridge, all Gippsland. He thought
often, all the world.
The boy closed his eyes, thinking now of
his uncle. Hector Martin when pruned of
his evil was kindly disposed enough. He
was clear-thinking and logical, full of
scholarship, a lover of swift-witted debate.
Particularly had this been true of him a
few years ago, when Mr. Hume had
delighted to match their thought and experi-
ence. Jasper used to listen with open
mouth and glistening eyes. It would be
politics, very likely.
“Why doesn’t the Government do more
for the selector?”
“You’re too small beer, Martin. The
Government is an overgrown schoolboy,
for ever hanging round the tuck-shop of
public vanity.”
Or art and letters:
“I can’t see why the critics will go to the
cemetery, Martin, can you? It’s the living
that need encouragement. The dead rest
on the work they left behind. Their human
race is run.”
This was one of their few points of
agreement.
Bracken, of course:
“It’s time the laboratories went into the
thing properly. I suppose the time will
come v 7 hen they’ll have to. It’s a sad
pest. In clear country you can roll the stuff
and burn it off. The trouble is, Huino,
that it likes the fire. It’s the Devil’s own
for that. The plough’s all right; only you
can’t plough a hill as steep as the side of
a barn, and stuck full of stumps and logs.
The only thing to do is to keep the fern-
hook going hard. It’s killing the small
farmers in the hills, Hume.”
“I know. God give them courage!”
Once—but this w r as some years before,
when Hume came to Musk Ridge more often
and more happily than he did now—it
was about Hector Martin himself. Jasper
had listened from his bed, where he lav
wide-eyed with a bitter toothache. There
was much that he did not understand.
“Honest, old man, do you think you’re
giving yourself a fair deal?”
“I don’t know what you’re talking about.”
“Yes, you do, Martin. You’ve let failure
get a hold of you. You were so full of
courage once: that’s the pity of it. And
now your mind is full of weeds.”
“I wish to God, Hume, you’d mind your
own business.”
“Full of weeds, Martin. Full of bracken-
fern. Get the fern-hook to work, man!”
“You can’t avoid preaching, can you?
But, then, it’s your job, isn’t it?”
“Sneer away, old chap, if it helps you. I
don’t mind. Only be very sure where all this
is leading you. Don’t wilfully delude your-
self. Trouble is very like a stinging-nettle.
Take a firm hold of it, and there’ll be no
(great harm in the long run. Sell Musk
Ridge, if you can, and get away contracting,
anything at all. Get some new associa-
tions, new interests”....
“I’ve told you, Hume, my house isn’t a
pulpit. I’ll do what I damned well please.”
“And Ann and Jasper?”
CHAPTER YI.
Grasslands.
Jasper purposely delayed to get the cows
in until nearly dark. There would be less
milk then for the morning milking, so that
he could be at the factory earlier than
usual. After he had paddocked the brown
mare he would walk on to Grasslands, to
Lois’s party.
As he milked he wondered who else
would be there. He hoped that his sore
heel would not be too sore to let him
join in the races they were sure to have.
Once, at the factory picnic, he had won a
mouth-organ for long-jumping. But before
he could learn to play on it he had dropped
it out of his pocket into the waterhoie
behind the house and it was never much
good again. Perhaps there would be a
mouth-organ anxmg the prizes Lois had
hinted at.
It, was nearly nine o’clock before Jasper
finished his tea. His uncle was still absent.
His aunt sat by the lamp patching Jasper’s
“good” trousers in readiness. There were
black circles under her eyes, as though she
slept hardly, and her lips were pursed,
She said presently: “Jasper, there’s your
homework still to do.”
“There isn’t any. Miss Sprott let the
school off. Aunt, what sort of work did
my father do?”
“He was a clerk, dear.”
“Adding up figures?” said Jasper. “I
hate -figures. And I hate farm work,
Aunt?”
“Yes? You must go to bed, dear. I’m
so tired.”
He rose at her fretful voice. Something
impelled him to say: “Aunt, when I’m
bigger I shall make lots of money. I’ll
look after you.”
He cast a sleepy look back at her as he
left the room. Her work had fallen from
her hands, and she was staring straight in
front of her.
, ~
(To 1)0 continued.)
Black Words.
Alas that black words, penned,
Oft bring an end
To the sincerest thought
Whereof they had been wrought;
As if the long hour spent
In buffeting argument
Defeats the victor’s hand !... .
There’s much I truly meant
I now not understand.
As for the words of praise,
In other days a distant worshipper
I gave to her, or her,
Or made for a mere theme,
Words that enclose the gleam
Of bright eyes and a shred
Of youth’s improvident dream—•
Can they not still be said
For another dear head?
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
Myra.
There’s a long, glad road before you,
Myra dear,
With a blue sky laughing o’er you,
And your lovers to adore you,
Myra dear!
Oh the wide, white road of story,
Myra dear!
Oh the long, proud road of glory
Trod by great bards grand and hoary,
Myra dear!
I have tramped that happy highway,
Myra dear,
To a dream that glamored my way,
To a goal that gladdens thy way,
Myra dear!
With your lyre upon your shoulder,
Myra dear,
Though your steps be young and bolder,
I may meet you when you’re older,
And your faith is growing colder,
Myra dear.
Then maybe your golden highway
Will have narrowed to a by-way,
Myra dear!
But with salt winds seaward blowing,
Myra dear;
With' the yellow wattle showing,
And the young maize greenly growing,
You’ll be up again and going,
Myra dear!
On . this road for ever winding
To the land of Never-minding,
Myra dear,
Never flagging, still untiring,
May you find your soul’s desiring,
Myra dear!
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
Botany Bay.
Since I saw its waters last.
On them plying lazy oars,
Many moons the Bay have glassed,
Many tides have washed its shores:
Yet, as o’er its breast I glide,
All things seem as they have been—-
Mirrored moon and flowing tide,
Still make beautiful the scene.
Back of yonder stretch of sand,
That a shining crescent lies,
Now as then the mangroves stand,
Now as then the sand-dunes rise;
Leaps and falls a pilchard shoal
Now as then, with tail and fin
Flashing as the ripples roll
And the tide comes streaming in.
F'ar from turmoil, far from town,
Spellbound by the witchery
That the soaring moon spills down,
Now as then dreams visit me:
Dreaming now, as I dreamt then—
O’er lit wmters rowing slow —
Ships of old I sec again,
Ships that vanished long ago.
First of all those craft to rise—
Rise and ride the waves once more—
Yon the old Endeavor lies,
Anchor down and stern to shore,
Dream succeeding dream, I view—
Spars a-sway and masts a-sway—.
Phillip’s fleet that hither drew
On a bright historic day.
On the sea-range rocked and rolled,
Manned and sailed by alien crews,
Last of all those ships of old
Float the craft of La Perouse.
Far from turmoil, far from town,
Spellbound by the witchery
That the soaring moon spills down,
I have dreams—and company!
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


i
I
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in dtock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOliMJßS X CHLKCH, Jirisbane.
N.Z. Offiee—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—" Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Soutii Australian Agents: Messrs. EI,THCIt, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, SA.
THE CREDIT OF TASMANIA
is undoubted and
THE MERCURY
is
A CREDIT TO TASMANIA
The “Mercury” is the only Metropolitan News-
paper in the State. Its news services; articles
and typography are unexcelled in Australia.
THE MERCURY
Covers the Whole State,
and its circulation greatly exceeds the combined
figures of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Delivered by fast motor-cars, it reaches Laun-
ceston (121 miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before breakfast.
ESTABLISHED 1854. PRICE Hd.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
The Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South Australia,
and is Read by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation in
Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny of Net Sales
invited.
ALL THE NEWS AND ALL THE
ADVERTISEMENTS.
In 1927 average size of “THE ADVERTISER,”
26 pages of 8 columns (each 24$ inch deep).
Space occupied by advertisements averaged
16$ pages daily, or a Total of
988,712 INCHES IN THE YEAR.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agances of
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, price lsd.
Head Offices:
J. L. Bonython & Co.,
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. L. WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone MA 3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
THE DAILY MAIL
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign, it gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is '
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply tot —
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Restful, quiet and cool —open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully situated with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service.
Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff from 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS—DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’ trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012 (4 lines).
u
THE WOMAN'S MIRROR"
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen tG
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3<3.
What tale do
your eyes tell?
s
<A
r'
A.
i
.
§
V
DO you know that your eyes can tell you when
your health is right or ailing ? If right, they
will be bright—if ailing, they will be dull and
lack lustre. In this case you probably suffer
constipation and liver trouble, one of the most pre-
valent causes of headaches, biliousness, indigestion,
etc. Constipation should be treated carefully, for,
if neglected, worse may follow.
The right medicine to take is BEECHAM’S PILLS
—the world’s approved regulative remedy. Beecham’s
are purely vegetable and will not harm the stomach.
They ensure the proper and harmonious working of
the digestive and eliminative organs.
Put things right quickly with the aid of
The Pills that
Conquer Constipation
vs^
Ol
WORTH A
GUINEA A
BOX :
ihe unrivalled remedy for
Constipation, Biliousness, Sicfc
Headache, Indigestion, Dis-
ordered Stomach, Torpid Liver,
rfjr
v
V
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER*’ is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER’* has been published in Launceston
for 86 years, and is still the family newspaper of
Northern Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Mr. V. W. Margetts,
irs Street,
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
701 Herald Building,
Launceston.
Melbourne
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Rouse your sluggish liver,
Relieve your stomach ills,
Revive your drooping spirits
■y taking
gdf
g
TWO AT NIGHT
PUT YOU RIGHT
Whether you are an energetic optimist
or a languid pessimist depends upon
the state of your liver. An occasional
dose of Cockle’s Pills is a splendid
liver tonic, ensuring healthy, regular
action with efficient cleansing away of
all surplus bile and uric acid, which
sour the digestion, wreck the nerves
and cause that tired, depressed feeling.
Get a box to-day, take two Pills to-
l night and see how fit and sprightly
you feel in the morning.
Small pill, easy to take. Of all chemists
and stores 1/6 a box.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., LTD. LONDON,
%
AN
HP
s e
e
'
*
c*VH^
<*>«*
o°^
. 0 e *v ...
f'V*
ao® ..*** ..*•*
55 ..** .•* ..**
«■ ■ ..•••■■


lilt
W(
5b
*3*
A Brilliant Performer
Dodge Brothers Victory Six possesses
all the best performance features of a
thoroughly modem car.
In addition, its unit construction and
unique chassis give it new qualities
never before offered in any car.
Riding comfort is increased, while un-
necessary weight is eliminated. Econo-
my is joined to acceleration and
flexibility. Speed is made safe by basic
engineering advancements.
Dodge Brothers complete line of passenger vehicles includes
the Standard Six, the Victory Six and the Senior Six.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne .
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane —- Townsville.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
Harden and Johnston, Limited, Sydney,
Worthern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland, N.Z. P. H. Vickery, Ltd. .. Invercargill, N.Z.
Amuri Motors, Ltd. . , Christchurch, N.Z. Newton King, Ltd. .. New Plymouth, N.Z.
Cossens and Black, Ltd. .. Dunedin, N.Z, Magnus Motors, Ltd. .. Wellington, N.Z.
DDDE E- B ROTH ER.S
VICTORY 5I X
ODE
12/12/’2B
