

BLACK & WHITE
4v;
m
m
■m
:
s
:n
■
m
& .
■
m
m
a
V
■Kv
SCOTCH WHISKY
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY,
The Bulletin
STORY BY JUDGE BEEBY.
Vol. 49.—N0. 2503.
Wednesday, February 1, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


W RITE for the library catalogue and
lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to—
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(LYSAG'Hr
•*-
3
O
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
M
Gainsborough Shop
Ladies lose their hearts
to the beautiful Shelley Tea Sets. To lift a Shelley cup is to
fed the quality in it. Only inherited craftsmanship, genera-
tions old, and the jealously guarded secrets of the Shelley
potteries can make China like this—so feathery light that you
could hardly believe it so strong. When their quality is con-
sidered, Shelley Tea and Coffee Sets cannot be deemed expensive.
Ask to see the latest Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Dainty While China,
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel Lucie Attwell and Hilda Cowham,
Shelley Domestic Ware, and Shelley Jelly Moulds—all British In ease
of any difficulty in obtaining write to T. W, HEATH
& CO., LTD* 15* CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
CHINA
forfhe name Shelletj on each piece of China |
mm
Choose it now-use it a lifetime
9 heßestPen
dsf
c or always
HATEVER the writing occasion, business
or pleasure, there is no pen which will serve
you better than a “Swan.” It is always ready at hand,
ready to write and%uns smoothly over the paper.
Ask to see the wide range of “Swan” Pens —
all fitted with the famous “Swan” nib, made and
adjusted by expert craftsmen. The one you choose
will last a lifetime.
“Swan” Self-Filling Pens from 17/6 upwards.
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
MABIE, TODD & Co., Ltd., London, W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depdt:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
“Swan" Pens, “Blackbird” Pens, " Swan" Ink and
“Fyne-Poynt" Pencils. A
_ -ft
Choose it now —use it a lifetime.
Use ‘Swan’lnk for'Swan’ Pens and all Pens.
and.
POWDER I s
i/7
\ \\Y. vl 1 -'”' 11
v_.7-
KS
fe
Kills Flies and Insects
Instantly.
Sold everywhere, or forward
2/6 or 1/- in stamps to
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Chemical Co., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
The Red Page
Five Months to Go
The first competition for The Bulletin’s
£l7OO prize-money will close on June 30:
novels entered must be in The Bulletin’s
hand by that date. The first prize in this
competition will be £5OO. The author
will retain all picture rights, as well as the
right to publish in book form; also all
serial rights outside Australia and Maori-
land.
The fact that a novel has gained one of
the prizes in this' competition will certainly
establish a keen demand for it outside Aus-
tralia. Every month now brings letters
from foreign publishers asking to be put in
communication with the winners so soon
as the prizes have been awarded. From
London the manager of Curtis Brown, Ltd:,
the best known of all Anglo-American
literary agents, has just written to say that
if they can get the handling of any of the
prize stories they will set up a special depart-
ment to further the interests of Australian
authors in Europe and the U.S.A.
The competition has been surrounded with
the fewest possible number of conditions.
The writers must be Australian-born or
bona fide resident in Australia; and for the
purposes of this condition Australia includes
New Zealand and the South Pacific. They
are not restricted as to subject, setting or
treatment. The entries must be “full-sized
novels,” and that allows plenty of play
from, say, 50,000 words upwards. Every
entry must be sent in with a pen-name,
accompanied by a sealed envelope contain-
ing both the pen-name and the real name
of the author; if it is desired, the real name
will not be disclosed. The novel must not
have been published previously; and every
story entered will be carefully read.
The Sincerity of Katherine Mansfield
Many people think sincerity an easy
matter. They dismiss anyone who seems
too languid or too emphatic as a poseur,
and leave it at that. I have more and more
come to believe that sincerity of feeling is
rare, while sincerity of expression requires
an extraordinary talent and tenacity. In
this belief I am entirely supported by the
remarkable Journal of Katherine Mansfield.
This is a belated successor to her four
books of stories, and will be followed by
her letters in two volumes, all edited by
Middleton Murry. The Journal shows a
brave and vivid woman, aiming above all
at personal and artistic sincerity. About a
year before she died she wrote in her Jour-
nal, after saying that her brilliant story,
“The Garden Party,” was better than some
others, but “not good enough, either,” this:
But the late evening is the time-of-times. Then,
with that unearthly beauty before one, it is not hard
to realise how far one has to go. To write something
that will be worthy of that rising moon, that pale
light. To be “simple” enough, as one would be simple
before G0d.... 1 know exactly where I fail. And
yet, when I have finished a story and before I have
begun another, I catch myself ‘preening my feathers.
.... I look at the mountains, I try to pray and
I think of something clever.
Her development lay precisely. in growing
out of mere cleverness. Her Journal, col-
lected from diaries, from little notes, gives
us a thorough insight into her workshop
and character, which were one. She kept
on writing during many years of atrocious
health, doing some of her finest work to-
wards the close of her short life, which
came in 1923. At that time she was with
a sort of philosophical brotherhood in Fon-
tainebleau. She had gone there hoping to
develop some kind of strength, physical
and psychic. A friend of mine who was
there at the time wrote since to me: “I
met her just before she died, at; that insti-
tute in Fontainebleau, whither we had both
fled, she to save her life and I to save my
soul. Neither of us achieved our object, I
fear.”
Katherine Mansfield’s life was nearly
spent before she entered, and she died, as
Middleton Murry records, after reaching
an extraordinary height of that “purity” or
sincerity which was her real quality. It is
only possible here to follow up one line of
that growing sincerity: her discovery of her
real theme. As a young girl, she had clever-
ness and penetration, but she had exercised
these powers on material that was not hers.
She wrote about people and places whose
outsides only she knew: that meant super-
ficial comment, not deep, clear interpreta-
tion. Reading those bitter little satires, I
had no idea that Katherine Mansfield was
someone of my own age. It was after-
wards that she found her youth in expres-
sion and theme.
She found it, literally, by deciding to base
her stories on her own childhood in Maori-
land. Everything combined in forcing
this decision upon her. Her greatly-loved
younger brother, spending a week with her
in 1915 on his way to the Front, talked
over her plans with her, and she promised
him to write about what they had known
together. He was killed almost immedi-
but their common purpose lived on
in her. In her Journal (1916) she wrote:
Now—now I want to write recollections of my
own country.... Ah, the people—the people we loved
there —of them, too, I want to write. Another “debt
of love,” oh I want for one moment to make our un-
discovered country leap into the eyes of the Old World.
It must be mysterious, as though floating. It must
take the breath. It must be “one of those islands”
.... But all must be told with a sense of mystery,
a radiance, an afterglow, because you, my little
sun of it, are set. You have dropped over the dazzling
rim of the world. Now I must play my part.
She did play her part. Using her deter-
mined subtlety of observation, she de-
veloped it along the lines recommended so
strenuously by Flaubert to de Maupas-
sant, when he said: “Come to me again
when you can describe a cab-horse so that
it will be a cab-horse and will also stand
out for ever from all other cab-horses.”
She had mastered this surely.
Here are some of her notes, some to be
used in stories, some just written for them-
selves :
In the white bookcases the books fly up and down
in. scales of color, with pink and lilac notes recurring,
until nothing remains but them, sounding over and
over.
I watched the ned sun, which looked horribly
like a morsel of tinned apricot, sink into a sea like
a huge junket.
And now, when she looked at his photogTaph,
even the white flower in his buttonhole looked as
though it were made of a curl of mutton-fat.
At breakfast time a mosquito and a wasp came
to the edge of the honey dish to drink. The mos-
quito was a lovely little high-stepping gazelle, but
the wasp was a fierce roaring tiger. Drink, my
darlings 1
Cleverness, you see, cleverness and skill
and wit: and to these were added that con-
sciousness of a destiny which made it pos-
sible for her to write of the tiniest happen-
ings in her childhood as if they were import-
ant. And so' they were, when she could
write of them as she did, with faith and
grace and understanding. It is when people
have no faith in their own simple but deep
experiences that they have to feel about
them for plots and “magaziney” stories.
It is remarkable that Katherine Mans-
field, in her Maoriland stories such as
“At the Bay,” “The Garden Party” or
“Prelude,” never mentions the name of
Maoriland, for better or worse. It is, as she
says, “one of those islands”: a place she
really knows, that is all. In the Journal the
best Maoriland papers are those headed
“Recollection of Childhood,” about the
new, delicate baby sister “who lay in
grandmother’s arms, her eyes just open to
show a line of blue, her face very white
and the one tuft of goldy hair standing up
on her head.” That grandmother is a won-
derful, sweet figure recurring very often,
but not often enough, in Katherine Mans-
field’s notes and stories, especially, of
course, those written after the “change, ’’
in tune with her brother’s desire.
Nettie Palmer.
Ba
Iderd-
ash
Perhaps because some such title as
“Modernist Poetry Made Easy” or “Mod-
ernists for Beginners” would have been both
Victorian and Hoylean, Laura Riding and
Robert Graves have given their elaboration
of balderdash, recently published by Heine-
mann, the genuinely modern, if not futurist,
label A Survey of Modernist Poetry. I
have read it, and would find no fault with
their treatment; it is intelligible, concise,
erudite and probably honest. But I submit
that their entire and elaborate work' is
based on a false foundation.
They assume that the generally artificial
moonshine of this groping period of literary
transition is worthy of comparison with the
great poetry of other periods—that it is
poetry. On that assumption, they conclude
that the tricks of punctuation and other
donkeyisms employed by the modernists
are not only pardonable but essential.
Admittedly, some of the literary effort that
is decked out in this freakish fashion is
poetry, but I for one cannot believe that
poetry gains any additional quality through
liberties taken with punctuation, the division
of words, the misuse of capitals' and italic
type, or any other of the babyish and ludi-
crous devices with which a few dozen palp-
able mediocrities seek to exhibit their
genius and succeed in exhibiting their preci-
ousness.
How barren the modernist fields are is
pretty clearly demonstrated by the fact that
in the 291 pages of this survey the authors
have not been able to peg down a single
great poem. They have got together a fair
amount of passable verse and even some
good poetry, but there isn’t one effort that,
gets closer than a coo-ee’s echo to great-
ness. One of the best they offer is E. E.
Cumming’s “Sunset”:—
stinging
gold swarms
upon the spires
silver
chants the litanies the
great bells are ringing with rase
the lewd fat bells
and a tall
wind
is dragging
* the
sea
with
dream
-S.
If you believe that Cumming’s poetry is the
better for being printed in such odd fashion,
you will probably also approve of the
snobbish bunkum which reads into four
diagonal yellow streaks of paint a back view
( Continued on page 5.)


■
m
M
■Jc.. fv
BM
KZ&ti
mm
m
“Truth in Advertising”
Anthony Horderns*
Genuine
ass
I
Ff?
/•f \
N
if
i:£\
•4S
vi'-Y;'-
Bfl
• Y V
mm.
m.
m
I
mm
mm
f t ■, draw ' i;^v * *
' v. * ; V ;«; rn&* jfc ’> ' ?; •
'» " > *».-A siT" *£ y • i *&gxr
I ■;
%xt I SI
SS3S
X.-K-,x>S 'feilr'.Y
*•'••
mm *&;•.
mm Mi
I life
K
uc
rom
Up-to-the-minute style—precise
tailoring—expert finish—the very
latest weaves and shade ranges, en-
dorsed by authoritative critics as essen-
tially fashionable. Where can you obtain
such genuine built-in smartness at the price
for which Anthony Horderns’ make your
suit? Materials are bought in the best markets
at the right time, while the exceptional finish,
which is an exclusive feature, is directly due to the
individual cutting and careful tailoring carried out
by proved experts. Variations in price are according
to the quality of materials, the same thorough work-
manship being applied to every suit made to definite
order —a fact which will appeal to the man who is dis-
criminating enough to regard style as the premier consider-
ation. The Suit, faultlessly tailored to measure, -C Rl l QIR
£7/17/6. Sale Price --- - - IJ7 O
Write for self-measurement form and patterns. Post free on request.
(Men’s Tailoring, Ground Floor. We Pay Carriage.)
OPEN EVERY FRIDAY UNTIL 9 PM
Anthony Hordern
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
and Sons, Limited
SYDNEY
'Phone Number
M 2401 (40 lines)


Not expected
Not thought possible
/ >
/if x y\%
4auk^
XT'
Yet jump an even greater
Essex Super-Six
Greater Power More brilliant per-
formance —Roomier Finer and
more luxurious bodies
Here is an unprecedented thing to do.
Essex Super-Six is the outstanding success of the year.
Its sales have topped all records. Its popularity has
made it the most brilliant accomplishment the industry
has known.
But Essex engineers have now created an even greater
and finer Essex Super-Six. So startling are its advan-
tages that at the height of the selling season production
was interrupted to give buyers a greater and finer value.
We are now showing it. Though factory production is
the largest in history, promptness alone can insure
delivery ahead of those who want this new Essex.
70 %
Australian Built
Under this combination oj resources,
American and Australian industry
has achieved manufacturing economies
that no other builder for the Australian
market shares.
Essex 5-pass. Toyring (Aus. Body) £255
Essex 5-pass. Coach (Aus. Body) . . 325
Essex Coupe (Imported Body) . . 335
Essex 4-door Sedan (Aus. Body) . . 345
Essex 4-door Sedan (Imp. Body) . . 365
Prices at some points slightly higher.
n
\*H3j
\
I# "• 4
ill
\
fcH*'
M
\ 5 &
A
f*a
%'
%
m
«■?
TA
%
Jt
mm
0
n
a
1
L
Kfl)£*f 2Vr»J jUgioqia
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.j
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
198.


PLEASURE CRUISES
Orient Line Cruises are the best way of explor-
ing Europe in comfort and at a low cost. All
the annoyances of land travel are avoided. The
dust and fatigue of long railway journeys, the
packing and unpacking, the tiresome Customs
examinations, the continual change of hotel—
none of these worry the traveller on an Orient
Line Cruise.
The programme for 1928, which will be made
by the Company’s newest 20,000-ton liners,
the Orford and Otranto embraces
THE MEDITERRANEAN
ATLANTIC ISLANDS
FJORDS OF NORWAY
NORTHERN CAPITALS
OF EUROPE.
The cruises vary in length from thirteen to thirty-
five days and there is a wide range of fare 3.
Write for Cruise Booklet LC.27.
ORIENT LINE
2*4-6 SPRING STREET-- SYDNEY
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA .
of a Chinese woman giving her baby his
first feed of rice.
Stinging gold swarms upon the spires.
Silver chants the litanies.
The great bells are ringing with rose—
The lewd fat bells—
And a tall wind is dragging the sea with dreams.
A good poem, a very good poem if j r our
taste runs to excess in adjectives, but cer-
tainly not a great poem.
It is, however, not with this sort of writ-
ing that, I have any quarrel. My objection
is to the unmusical, and therefore un-
poetical, mediocre word-juggling which these
same genuine, earnest, sincere, striving duds
gull a crowd of readers as precious as them-
sejves into accepting as poetry. I do not
believe that mere blinding music, such as
Swinburne’s, is necessarily poetry; but I
do believe nothing is poetry that is not also
music. This, for instance: —
Among
these
red pieces of
day (against which and
quite silently hills
made of blueandgreen paper
scorchbend ingthem
-selves —U
peurv E, into
anguish (dim
b)ing
s-p-i-r-a-
-1
and,disappear)
Satanic and blase
a black goat lookingly wanders.
I gently and considerately submit that any-
one who can be gulled into calling that a
poem, or even part of a poem, ought to be
taken under the tving of the Society for
the Prevention of Confidence Tricks on
Damn Fools. It is prose, set by a drunken
comp, and passed by a blind reader with a
sense of humor.
Among these red pieces of day (against which —
and quite silently—hills made of blue and green
paper, scorch-bending themselves, upeurve into
anguish, climbing spiral, and disappear) satanic and
blase, a black goat lookingly wanders.
It is a view of passing scenery seen through
a train window; and the authors suggest that
though it is descriptKe prose read that way,
it is poetry read as originally set. I sug-
gest on that hypothesis and with, I believe,
equal logic, that Keats’s urn is the finest
ice-cream churn in the language.
Cecil Mann.
“Le orted’ Arthur”
Selectively browsing once more through
Sir Thomas Malory’s great epic, I was in-
trigued by the indestructibility of racial
traits. The quality with which the tale is
most popularly credited—its romanticism—
seemed less apparent than its realism. De-
spite the absurdities of chivalry and the
nonsensicalities of the intruding Merlin, the
story abounds in sense of the realities of
life. As for the magician, with his pro-
phetic claims, the narrator shows what he
thinks of him by quenching his babble
early, and uses as his agent a woman of no
conspicuous gifts. Malory is obviously less
interested in the irrational quest of the
Sangreal by a crowd of hare-brained knights
than in the pursuit of the adorable shape of
Arthur’s wife by the practical-minded
Lancelot. The passion of the aristocratic
horde for ideal perfection is less tenderly
dwelt on than the human love of Tristram
for La Beale Isoud and the murderous
activities of the tin-clad chivalrists—the
thunder of their conflicts sounds more real
than the uproar of a boiler-making factory
—are told with twice as much gusto as the
incidents of Joseph of Arimathea’s mystic
shield.
In fact, if Arthur’s knights Avere put into
evening dress and placed in a modern
drawing-room, they would do as characters
in an up-to-date social drama by Somerset
Maugham. What more modern theme
could one have than the story of King
Mark sending Tristram to Ireland to
secure the person of Isoud and the
couple’s falling in love and their inad-
vertent drinking of a love-potion, which
action binds them closer than ever and
provides them with a sufficient excuse for
breaking all the social conventions of the
time. How comfortably all the wives are
married to their lords and how noncha-
lantly they break the marriage bond—all
in the modern style!
When one compares the fundamental
realism of this epic of the West with the
turgid mysticism of parallel works of the
East, one sees the immutability of race.
In the Vishnu-parana Krishna orders the
cowherds to leave off worshipping Indra
and to adore the cows, and Indra, angered,
deluges the Avorld to be avenged on Krish-
na, who lifts the mountain Govardhana and
holds it over his head as an umbrella. Later
he weds 16,000 women and has 180,000 sons,
and destroys Benares and performs other
godlike pranks, changing himself into innu-
merable forms the while, but never being
for five minutes anything remotely human
or displaying any of the hates, loves and
prejudices of common men. Similarly
Rama, in the Mahabharata, chases his be-
loved Siti through the air and slays demons
on her behalf and walks across to Ceylon
on a bridge of monkeys after her; but no-
where does she appear as a creature meet
to be cuddled, nor does Rama show any
real desire to cuddle her, although he was
able to sprout 100 arms to do it with. Here
and there we touch reality in the Lalita-
Vistara, telling of the birth of Buddha, but
it is only introduced to point a moral
lesson. “The ravishing ivife of Suddho-
dana,” we are told, “is one of a thousand,
for she has attained perfection the
shape of her body is faultless.” But “she
exhibits neither pride nor frivolity; lying
and deceit are unknown to her.” How un-
like the venal spouses of “Le Morte
d’Arthur”! No wonder “no man can look
upon this woman Avith amorous desire; and
on account of the good works of the queen
the great family of the king continues to
prosper.” She was too good for this world
and so Avas well fitted to bring into it her
famous son, Avhose one object in life Avas
to escape from it. The complete biograplry
of the Buddha is told in the Jataka tales,
and the narrator, in his anxiety to amplify
the immense superiority of his hero, just
a trifle OA'erdoes things. A man who turns
himself into a lamb in order to nourish a
starving tiger appears in our modern eyes
to be merely priggish. He certainly
wouldn’t fit into a Maugham play.
Just as Sir Thomas Malory’s characters,
with few emendations, could mingle in a
modern English drama although 459 years
lay between them, so Krishna, Rama and
Buddha would be quite at home in the so-
called new literary movement in India.
M.G.S.
Novels Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee nominated by the Associated Book-
sellers of Australia and Maoriland. It is
issued to serve as a guide to fiction of
merit:—
There are no recommendations for “Books
of Literary Merit” this month.
Books for Popular Reading. —ln a Yun-
nan Courtyard, by L. J. Milne; By Request,
by Ethel M. Dell; Forlorn River, by Zane
Grey; The Sentimentalists, by Dale Collins_;
The Secret of Father Brown, by G. K.
Chesterton; The Nuptials of Corbal, by
Rafael Sabatini; The Mixer, by Edgar Wal-
lace ; Miss Torrobin’s Experiment, by H. A.
Vachell; Bitter Heritage, by Margaret Ped-
ler; The Slave Junk, by Frank L. Packard ;
Aristocratic Miss Brewster, by Joseph C.
Lincoln; Onslaught, by Joan Sutherland.
A Satchel of Books
Savour of Salt, by Florence Randal Live-
say (D-ent). A story of Irish people in a
Canadian setting.
Practical Birth Control, by Ettie A.
Hornibrook (Heinemann). A revised edition
of the author’s “Safe Marriage.”
The Death of a Poor Man, by Franz Wer-
fel (Benn). A translation of the text of the
Austrian author’s Der Tod des Kleinbiirgers.
Depressing and impressive.
Voices from My Garden, by Marjorie
AV-eatherly (Robertson and Mullens). Moral
verses, essays and storyettes by an author
with a message. Quite well produced.
On Straw and Other Conceits, by D. B.
Wyndham Lewis (Methuen). Burlesque
essays and verse, from the London Daily
Mail. Rather artificial, strung together in
book form. Still, highly amusing.
Wayside Songs, by Marion Downes (Simp-
kin, Marshall). Described on the title page
as “the Australian writer,” the author of
these lavishly pious and sentimental verses
does not soar to any very high plane in
Australian literature. The volume is un-
usually well produced, and an introductory
note states: “During the Great War her
soul was deeply stirred. I can bear glad
witness that many of her poems were greatly
esteemed by Australian soldiers. Rugged as
these men were, they responded to her deep
spirituality.” One stanza :
Oh! the solemn, quiet beauty,
Oh, the majesty of night;
As, like sentinel on duty,
Darkness takes the place of light 1
Birds and Beasts at the Roman Zoo, by
T. Ivnottnerus-Meyer (Allen and Unwin).
The author is the director of the Zoological
Gardens of Rome. “What,” he says, “divides
us from the animals is not the fact of intel-
lectual development, but merely its differ-
ences of 1eve1.... Anyone who is acquainted
with the apes, the larger cats, the wolf, the
horse and the parrot knows that they have a
distinct feeling of right and wrong, and that
they manifest a sense of guilt, joy and grief
which is related to abstract thought.” All
very interesting.
U.S.S.R., A World Enigma, by Ivy Lee
(Benn). Mr. Lee is an American who lately
went on a mission to Russia. He found it
depressing. Western civilisation, he admits,
has its faults and weaknesses, “but there
can be no question that the people are hap-
pier and that the standard of life of the
average man is far higher than is the case
in Russia.” The Russian people he finds all
right. To make the country all right Russia
must first of all establish a reputation for
good faith and show a desire to comply with
every international obligation; in the next
place she must take all possible steps to
remove from within her borders any organi-
sation which seeks to upset the institutions
of friendly nations through violence. How
to bring this about the author leaves as a
“supreme challenge to the business states-
manship of the world.” Which doesn’t seem
to carry things much further.
The Romance of Runnibede, by Steele
Rudd (N.S.W. Bookstall Co.). A run of
100,000 acres, including in its broad domain
stretches of sheltered valleys and scrubs,
lofty ranges and wide grass plains: to the
north the Great Dividing Range and to the
south the winding Condamine —such was
Runnibede, the scene of Steele Rudd’s latest
volume, on which a very successful film has
been based. Without excluding the vein of
humor that is peculiarly his own, the popu-
lar creator of Dad and his family has
treated the characters in the present novel
in more serious mood. The days he pictures
and the types that filled them are under-
going the process film folk describe as “the
fade-away.” “Runnibede” will do something
to preserve the fine pioneering tradition;
the author acknowledges that he is indebted
to his parents for the various incidents and
impressions he gleaned from them during
his boyhood days and which live again in
the pages of his romance. Quite as good as
any piece of work the author has submitted
for the past 20 years; vibrant with life and
rich in local color.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Jean Mac: But why “scatter all the unions
to the winds” ? Education and democratic self-
government would probably make them as useful as
ever they were. Attempted suppression would mean
secret bodies controlled by the kind of people in
control nowadays... .P.H.A., T. MacD., J.P.M.:
Blocked by this cursed lack of space... .W.C.: Too
dull 1.W.: You’ve left “Life’s Fundamentals” too
late to hang it on that peg... . Mercutio: If it ate
half the space people might read it... .E.F.M.: No
doubt we should find your poem very beautiful if we
could only guess what it means... .Vic K.: Six lines
in it, no more... .C.F.W.L.: There’s great material
in it. But you haven’t told the story.... Quits: It
drags where it ought to ga110p.... Barry M.: Would
print if we could find the space... .W.8.E.: Fourteen
pages of unredeemed misery. You mistake the
Australian if you think that’s what he wants to pay
his sixpence for... .Sheila: In religious matters the
best smell for a newspaper is no smell... .W.H.:
Not the worst we have read, but a long way off,
nevertheless,.. .M. 8.: We promise to do our best
to forget it... .W.f.lcA.: We can’t recall the earlier
batch, but if it was anything like the latest lot it
probably killed a reader or two. ...D.G.: Synthetic
feeling... .Whirlwind: Your prayer is not very mov-
ing.... Civis Australis: “The Public Servant’s
Lament” certainly reads like 0ne....0.P.: Your
“Vignettes on the Manly Boat” suggest the industry
of a donkey-engine and the vision of a drunk....
A.M.L.: A hackeneyed phrase in every line....
Z.V.W.: 5h00!... .S.W.H.: Sentiment all right; verse
all wrong... .L.J.G.: Musings of lady before mirror
duller than usual... .R.C.C.: Could be better —
much better... .Guida: “I could drink all the tides
of the sea.” We understand... .Waimera: AVith
better treatment that idea would 5e11.... W. 8.5.:
AVrap your heart in it and lay it gently at the
lady’s feet... .8.W.: “I’ll run ! I’ll leap ! I’ll shout!”
AVell, have one for u 5.... Just Seventeen: Yes,
we will give you an honest criticism. Your verse
isn’t... .Vagabond: “Patches —watches.” Elephants
—tomatoes !....Enough: Quite... .M.R.M.: No,
that conclusion seems too improbable... .Cancan:
Can’t.... D.H.: Quite true that under the old
system Sydney Town Hall was a sort of social
centre, with reception rooms for the Mayoress
and so on, and a junketing allowance for the Lord
Mayor. But the new Chief Commissioner’s wife has
no more status —and should have no more —than the
wife of the Chief Railway Commissioner... .F.C.:
Stabled with the also-rans... .C.W.P.: Neither visit
of school-inspector nor death of magpie sufficiently
interesting.. . .N.E.M.R.: Well written, but casts a
gloom on the happy home. Try something more cheer-
ful.... Egerton: You ask for “frank criticism.”
Stick to the land S.S.: Consignment of Japanese
goods returned, also “His Revenge”... .N.T.: Too
breezy. Blown 0ut....E.D.: Well on the way, but
sentiment a little overdone.,. .W.H.I. and R.C.: Un-
suitable... .8.G.: “Father and the Crystal Set” had
a poor reception... .L.P.J.: Gone home.., .D.M.: You
may do better... .Chas. O.: Too much refrain. ...
Coreen N.: That sort of thing needs to be done
much better than you do it.. ..Quin: “One Great
Thought.” You do flatter it... .Reo: No hope....
C.A.T.: There’s one thing—you will never do any-
thing worse.... Tomah: And here’s how the gin beat
the brumby:—
With one final effort
And one final lung
He stood with head down
As he through up the Spunge
As the gin left the saddle
She stood viewing his nibs
She lifted her leg
Stuck her toe in his rib?
She knew she had Conquered
As down the yard she did stride
With a grin on her face
Fully six inches wide.
. ...0.5.W.: “Life’s but a symphony, a mockery,
a fantasy, a cycle of strife.’’ Don’t you think the
poor old thing does pretty well to be all that at
once?... .Evan B.: “Down a moonlit dale I
wandered.” And the blighters sent it back !....
D.8.0’C.: Neither quite up... .S.H.: Too long, and
atmosphere overpowers incident.... Fanuel: That
treatment of the triangle is not as fresh as you
think it.. . .J.A.H. and G.0.A.: Submitted to Mirror.
. ...G.8.8.: A bottled nightmare... .C.R.M.G.:
Extracts from a drover’s diary without distinctive
quality.... Ero.: Regret no fitting place for your
appreciation... .G.R.8.: Has the material for a good
yarn if more skilfully constructed... .A.8.C.: There’s
pathos in it, but the construction is weak....
J.AV.B.: Have, as requested, looked at the oyster
and “pondered o’er the periwinkle,” and have decided
to omit, the fish course. .. .J.C.L.: Failed to pass the
censor... .It.L.M.: Your bit of hedonistic philosophy
consigned to the basket. .. .D.M.C.: Too beery....
V.R. : “Noise in the Night” silenced. .. .T.C.D.: The
bank manager who stuffs “crisp, crackling notes”
into a customer’s pocket does not live, even in fiction.
....Glamis: Idea old, and nothing else there....
Guida: Yes, we read copy that is not typed, and some
that is not even written... .H.J.P.: Artificial....
T.W.N.: Give up verse for a while and take a
course of growing pains.... Kon: If wine affects you
like that, you should find a good brand of lemonade
and stick to it Elads: The fact that you get
through five stanzas without any punctuation is the
least of your sins... .M. 0.0.: The first Prize Novel
competition will close on June 30.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.H.D.: Dolly was not as imprudent as the artist
who drew her friends... .F.W.D.: Ponderous in every
sense of the word F.S.: It’s not your game....
J.H.: Gags are not supplied to beginners... .L.J.:
A glimmer of humor in the joke and the drawing
suggests that you will improve... .J.W.C.: Your
sailors deserve to have their shore leave cancelled.
. ...H.M.: You ore brave to invite criticism of
that effort... .W.A.P.: You shan’t welcome the
coolie as the solution of our labor problems in this
White Australian paper. .. .T.C.T.: Gone where the
bad drawings go .1.5.: You have sacrificed too
much for a slick line E.N.: A sketch that requires
half a column of letterpress to explain it is not for
us A.E.M.: Thrown out... . A.M.C.: Try some
other pastime.


9
n
K'\
fm
A
m.
:
(I
:
-
i
?
V
w;
mm
E
v'
3
m
■
ill
i :
m
it
IP
v ■
:^
Our registered Great Western
Sparkling Wine label has been
shamefully copied. We warn the
public against spurious imitations.
ds


The Bulletin .
Vol. 49—No. 2503.
February 1, 1928.
So IT MAM' COME TO THIS,
The honest pride-
OF ACHIEVEMENT,
and th\s
OF COi_.RE>e, ACCtOtnlc
VIiLL Happeh.
THE EfNU OF A. PERFECT
SIMPLICITY IS THE WORD.
“The Queen entered the house, and said she was pleased beyond measure to find that the work was done without the aid of servants. Her own tastes and those of
the King are very simple, and she regarded such conditions as very delightful.” —London correspondent.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia lor the White Alan.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance omy).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly.
12 months, £1 /,s. ; 6 months, 12s. (id. ; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Oveuseas: 12 months, X> 1 Ids.; 0
months, 15s. Cd.; 3 months, Bs. ,
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, ana
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney. .
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to oe
contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. 1 er-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission 0J MS.
To Amateurs in Black and AVliite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin origin a'
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in the Alain Hall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.CJ/J and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C-'i;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet Street,
London, E. 0.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” bU-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
ECS
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban ;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni Newt
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
°^Canada.— G. S. Forsyth and Co., 217 Hastings
Street West, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161. East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde ; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Br’entano’s, sth Avenue and 27tli Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and J/2nd Streets New Yovk City j Ilotaliny’s
News Agency, 203 West J/lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 7O’, Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, ’New Orleans, La.: The Wide World News
Stand, 51,South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt.— Jacques , Ilovn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong. . ,
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Ranking Road,
Shanghai. China.
Penang. S.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon.— T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy; M.
Atmaram and Sons, J,) Chatham Street, Fort Colombo;
A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, .9 York Street, Fort
Colombo.
Parua. —Whitten Bros.. Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.-— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.I/.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
X. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) : — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji :
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: hoz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional boz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: boz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
TTuT^ullelzm,.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1928.
A FAIR DEAL FOR THE
AUSTRALIAN BOY!
The N.S.W. Department of Public Instruc-
tion makes laudable efforts to ascertain
what its pupils do for a living when their
school days are over. Statistics relative to
8899 boys from the Primary and Pre-voca-
tional Schools are published in the 1926
report, which was printed only recently,
and they make lamentable reading:—
Occupations. Number. Percentage.
Professions . . . . . . 107 1.1
Public Service . . .. 307 3.4
Commercial .. .. .. 1459 16.4
Trades .. • • • • 1557 17.5
Pastoral, Agricultural .. 1649 18.6
Factories .. • • • • 160 5.2
Mine employees .. .. 149 1.7
Unskilled Occupations .. 2871 32.3
Unknown .. .. • • 340 3.8
In effect, one-third of these lads became
unskilled laborers; and one-tenth would be
reckoned an excessive proportion in coun-
tries which do not boast of having “the
finest system of primary education in the
world.” They don’t all remain unskilled
laborers, but a great many do. Witness the
large percentage of young fellows in pick-
and-shovel gangs and the like and mobs of
unemployed—a thing that impresses itself
on the mind of every man who goes about
N.S.W. with his eyes open. And these
youths who do so much of “the donkey
work,” as Queensland Premier McCormack
calls it, are not poor types by any means.
Many of them have fine faces, and are
obviously capable of better things. Nor
are the conditions here deplored peculiar
to N. S. Wales, for they are as bad, if not
worse, in the other States. Neither are
they conditions which grew out of the war.
A.I.F. colonels have placed it on record
that the majority of their men were un-
skilled laborers before enlistment. And they
were remarkably brave and resourceful
soldiers in the mass. Bean and Gullett
give particulars of many ingenious devices
which lightened the difficulties of trench
and desert warfare. Not a few of them
were suggested by unskilled laborers, to
whom the war brought opportunities denied
in time of peace.
»j; jJ: :J:
The causes of the tragic waste of good
human material disclosed in this N. S.
Wales report are many. Some of the
more obvious are the necessities of parents,
real or imaginary; the prevalence of bor-
rowing for public works; the comparatively
large wages paid for unskilled boy labor
on these and private jobs; the barriers
raised against apprentices by selfish em-
ployers and unions and the unnecessarily
long terms of apprenticeship in some
trades; and the outrageous excess of im-
ports, which means that Australians are
maintaining overseas many industries in
which their own sons ought to be employed.
They are removable causes, all of them,
and in their removal men and women of
all parties and sections could co-operate. It
may be necessary to insist v on every boy
being put in the way of learning a trade
or calling before he leaves school. It will
certainly be necessary to grow and make
a great many things which are now im-
ported. That implies a more resolute and
scientific application of the national fiscal
policy, together with a lightening of the
burden of direct taxation, now vexatiously
duplicated, and the abolition of overlap-
ping Labor legislation, which plagues the
wage-payer without benefiting the wage-
earner. It also implies a much more
patriotic policy, on the part of public
bodies and private people alike, when mak-
ing their purchases. Were all these fac-
tors in operation, many of the lads now
precariously holding pick-and-shovel jobs
or, rather, looking for them, could be in-
tensively trained for steadier and more pro-
ductive work in expanding industries. By
that means, some of them would certainly
be saved from drifting into a life of crime.
Such has been the fate of hundreds of
weak-willed youngsters, units in the vast
army of casuals, whom the settled habits
bred by constant and well-paid work in a
factory or the like would very likely have
saved. Australian prison statistics show
that the proportion of skilled workers
among the inmates is very small; the pro-
portion of “laborers” very large.
# * *
The Australian boy gets a lot of advice,
and not a little abuse, from children of a
larger growth. But in the matter of pro-
viding him with opportunities for learning
a useful trade or calling his censorious
elders are not giving him a fair spin. The
figures published by the N.S.W. depart-
ment make this appallingly clear.
CAN WE LEARN FROM THE
GREASER?
Dear Bulletin,— ln the issue of 12/l/’2B
appeared an article entitled “Hard to Let
Go.” The paragraph which fascinated my
eye was this: —
“The whole incident calls attention to the
fact that America [otherwise the United
States] must eventually mop up the saddle-
colored republics between the Rio Grande
and the mainland of South America. American
business men are already exploiting their
immensely rich resources, utterly neglected
by the indifferent Greaser; hut they find the
piebald Governments unsatisfactory to de.al
with and hard to run on a schedule No-
thing short of taking over is likely to answer,
and though this will cost money the pros-
pective profit will justify it.”
The Americans of Spanish and Portuguese
origin have the same title to their bit of
the continent as the Americans who keep
the 4th of July and the memory of Geo.
Washington. But they didn’t wipe out
the aborigines with the thoroughness of the
Washingtonians, so they are rather a mixed
crowd, and the Yankees have a habit of
calling them Greasers. They retaliate with
the term Gringo. Greasers are of varying
qualities and degrees, but they have a few
things to their credit.
The Greaser represents the supreme effort
to prove that the white man can colonise the
tropics and be a permanency there. He
doesn’t keep his tropical metropolis and his
Government in some cool spot, say at Bris-
bane or Perth or Canberra, quite outside
the torrid zone, while he plays or pretends
at filling the hot empty spaces. His whole
life and all his interests are involved in
the business. He isn’t a tourist or a bird of
passage after the manner of the English-
man in India, Burma, Ceylon and the
Soudan, or the Yankee in Panama or the
Philippines—always looking forward to the
time when he will go “Home.” He has no
home except in his own land of sun-glare
and earthquakes. Being something in the
nature of an orphan, he lacks even a cold-
weather Mother Country where he can
float a huge loan every month or two, pawn-
ing posterity as security. If he is the un-
qualified failure which is sometimes assumed
it may be explained by the unavoidable
handicap of a large aboriginal population,
or it may be that the white man isnt
meant for the tropics after all. I don’t
accept the latter view, and I do believe in
White Australia; but it is no end of a pity
that Australia doesn’t put two or three more
white people into its tropic lands as evi-
deuce.
The Greaser has built 13 capital cities
inside the torrid zone. Two of them have
more than 1,000,000 inhabitants, and seven
contain over 100,000. There are some very
fine places among them. Australia hasn t
built one metropolis north of the Capricorn
line, or within many scores of miles to the
south of it. There are 18 countries, includ-
ing Australia and the Union of South
Africa, which are wholly or partly tropical,
and where the resident and settled and
predominant race is white, or was white,
or tries to look as white as it can. Of these
the largest holder of tropical estate is
Brazil. Australia comes next, they being
the only two which pass, or even remotely
approach, the million-square-mile mark.
The white and half-caste population or
torrid Australia was only 190,862 on last
census day. Since then Cloncurry, desciibco
as “the richest and most extensive copper-
field in Australia,” has been practically
closed, for it requires a very rich copper-
field to earn a living in Australia. In fact,
but for the sugar industry, which is granted
a monopoly of the Australian market, and
pearl-fishing, which depends on colored
labor, Tropical Australia might have been
declared a definite failure by now.
The little Central American republic of
Guatemala, population 2,000,000, lost its
metropolis about 10 jrears ago. An earth-
quake came as a Christmas box, and 30
days of quake followed, and a city of
116,000 inhabitants moved bodily off the
map. Frequent experiences of the sort are
bad for the nerves, the roads, the railways
and the finances, and some people would
make a devil of a fuss over them. The
Guatemalan just started rebuilding, and by
1925-26 his finances showed a surplus again.
Costa Rica is smaller than Tasmania and
has a population of half a million; and it is
mentioned in the most familiar book of
reference that it possesses 3269 “factories
and industries.” Mexico is best known for
its civil disturbances. Still, the place has
over 8200 miles of Federal Government rail-
way; there are 38,000 people employed in
its cotton factories alone; it actively digs
up almost every kind of mineral, and its
exports are worth about £70,000,000 per
annum. Brazil, almost wholly tropical, has
109,000 men employed in its cotton fac-
tories, and this is only an item, for the
country goes in for being a pastoral, agri-
cultural, mining and manufacturing region.
It is a pity Australia isn’t more of a success
in the textile line.
A notable point about the Greaser is
a tendency to pay his way. For
instance, Mexico, in 1924, exported to
the value of about £30,000,000 more
than it imported, so that it ' had that
amount to its credit to meet external lia-
bilities. This is the regular Mexican habit
nowadays. Australia’s imports in 1924 were
valued at £21,000,000 more than its exports,
and to pay for them and meet its external
interest bills it had to borrow still another
£51,000,000. That is the pretty regular
Australian habit nowadays. Possibly the
Greaser, even if his politics are inferior, is
reforming along certain lines while the Aus-
tralian isn’t.
If it is laid down that our Uncle has a
right to take over any place where he thinks
the profits will be immense, on the plea
that it is utterly neglected, I suppose he has
as good a claim to the centre and west of
Northern Australia as to any other place.
The Northern Territory is 22 times the size
of Costa Rica; it has half the length of
railway; and it has the population of a
small town. And the difficulty of getting
the Government to make any practical use
of it is terrible.—Yours, J. E.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Trouble All Round.
Work has been definitely (or indefinitely)
suspended on the 160-mile extension of the
Northern Territory railway between the
Katherine River and Daly Waters. Some
hundreds of men have been thrown
out of employment, and as they have been
put off an essential job there will presently
be a clamor that non-essential relief jobs
should be found to prevent them going
hungry. It isn’t officially stated whether
the Bruce-Page Ministry is absolutely
stumped for money or whether it is only
stumped for loan money and objects on
principle to use any other, but the latter
is far the more probable explanation.
A feature of the public accounts is a table
headed “Commonwealth Expenditure on
New Works from Consolidated Revenue,”
and it shows that in the six years 1920 to
1926 the revenue spent on “Works and
Railways” was £18,158. Loan money spent
on railways alone in the single year 1925-
26 was £1,196,177. As revenue contributions
aren’t large enough to make any difference
it is fairly obvious that it is the partial
borrowing collapse which has left the Com-
monwealth a busted employer at a most in-
opportune moment. Another table is headed
“Commonwealth Expenditure from General
Loan Fund,” and the two are interesting
when placed side by side: —
Spent on Spent on Works
New Works from and Sundries from
Federal Revenue. Federal Loans.
1920- . . £2,098,203 £3,877,912
1921- . . 2,571,794 5,246,503
1922- . . 720,927 5,383,949
1923- . . 629,510 6,068,898
1924- .. 343,916 6,341,758
1925- . . 316,941 7,778,856
When the Commonwealth developed the
habit of doing public works out of revenue
to a considerable extent, it would have been
no great effort of economy to keep develop-
ing till it was independent of the loan
market. Then there would be no need to
come down with a crash, and stop Federal
works wholesale, simply because the loan
business is dull and shows every sign of
being worse. The Government has gone
into flashy schemes of house-building and
road-construction, and it has devised an im-
posing device for setting a paper sinking
fund in hot pursuit of a gold debt. But
these things don’t in the least compensate
for the fact that it deliberately built its
house on the same quicksand that the
States stand on, so that they might all fall
in together.
The suspension of work on the South-to-
North railway is an unmitigated calamity,
because on that line depends the chance
of turning the very black Northern Terri-
tory into White Australia, and of turning
a very large section of Empty Australia 1
into a settled and populated land. Still,
nothing would be gained by dismissing the
unsatisfactory Bruce-Page coalition from
office. Any possible alternative Ministry is
more likely to be worse than better.
♦
Good Work in Papua.
A correspondent who has lived long
enough in Papua, on his own confession, to
know better writes to The Bulletin criti-
cising the administration of the funds
acquired from the Native Taxation Ordin-
ance. He asks why more money and atten-
tion are not given to medical aid for native
ills, and in this connection urges that no
missionary in Papua should be allowed to
convert the heathen unless he has acquired
a modicum of medical knowledge. In point
of fact, there are few missionaries in Papua
who have not an adept knowledge of first-
aid, while some are qualified surgeons and
physicians.
Native taxation may not exceed £1
per head per annum. It is not col-
lected from natives unfit for work or from
parents who can show at least four
living children; and there are other exemp-
tions. The scheme dates from 1919-20; to
June 30, 1926, the gross revenue amounted
to £116,896 2s. lid., the net revenue being
£101,332 os. sd. Leaving out fractions of
a pound, expenditure during the seven yea--s
was £33,791 on Education and £36,800 on
Benefits. Primary education —the three
“R’s”—cost £1452; general and technical.
£16,750; agricultural, £8809; experimental
nursery, £765; other oddments, including
examinations and inspections conducted by
Government officials, £1524; and clerical
expenses, £5O. Of the total of £33,791 the
missions received grants amounting to
£27,151, their disbursements being subject to
Government inspection. The Papuan is an
hereditary artisan and craftsman, and a
born agriculturist and trader. The Govern-
ment has sought to improve him along
these lines, and its endeavors have met
with very striking success.
Benefits, so called, include the establish-
ment and supervision of native-owned
plantations, on which £9872 were spent,
sales of produce reducing this outlay to
£6260. Anthropological research, which has
brought many beneficial results, absoibe'
£5067, and medical grants to mission-
£4so9. The medical department proper,
with its travelling medical officers, cost
£11,788, and medical buildings £2134-
Village improvements (£1037), family
bonuses (£5774), and one or two minor
items made up the total. All this expendi-
ture was for the benefit of thg. natives
Figures are notoriously dry reading, bin
there can be no better way of showing how
the Papuan Government has expended the
money raised from the native for the bene-
fit of the native only. Few countries
administering native populations have done
so much for so little, and covered so wide
a field in doing it,
♦
Uncle’s War.
The appeal of United States barrister
Peabody to President Coolidge re tn
remorseless collection of war debts may
a sign that the Republican conscience n
at last awakening to the fact that -
position is not only sinful but ndiculo
In one great war a British Minister sa
that his country had God on its side, an--
that He was the only friend whom
hadn’t to keep supplied with money,
the idea of collecting the money again
unusual. There is abundant precedent to
exacting cash from a defeated enemy
there is little or none for acting m
same way towards nearly ruined allies.
The fact that the Prussian militant-
aimed at world dominion, including
mercial dominion, was very little dug , _
If they had won the war so decisn ely - •
the peace terms would include an extend


surrender of British, French and Italian
warships instead of the event being the
other way about, there would have been
two great Powers left. One would have
been Germany, with an almost homo-
geneous population of 65,000,000, a vast
army drunk with success, an overwhelming
navy, an imposing mercantile marine, a
very ambitious and uncivil dynasty, and a
notorious craving for overseas possessions.
The other would have been the United
States, with 82,000,000 white inhabitants
(by the census of 1910), of whom nearly
4,000,000 were German or Austrian by
birth, while many more millions were simi-
lar by descent; with the necessity to
improvise an army, and with a navy which
was good enough to beat the Spaniards.
The outbreak of war showed that the
equipment was shocking. Seventeen months
elapsed before the U.S. army could engage
in a first-class operation, and then it had
to borrow material wholesale from its
associates.
The U.S. was worried by the German
propaganda among its German and
German-American population, aimed at
driving the Union into the war on the
Kaiser’s side. It was angered at the dis-
covery, through intercepted cipher
despatches, that Fritz was making
approaches to both Mexico (about which
place Uncle is very sensitive) and Japan.
It noticed that Fritz had made some sort
of war on itself by sinking its ships. It
began to feel that if it didn’t fight Fritz
with powerful assistance it might have to
fight him, sooner or later (perhapssooner),
without any. When the Allied position was
at its worst some people even pictured an
American war on two fronts, Mexico and
Canada; it would largely depend on how
the spoils were divided. There was no
concealing the fact that the Atlantic isn’t
the barrier it was in the days of George
111., and it was a very poor one then. And
though the nominal advantage of numbers
might look something on paper it was
rottenly unconvincing.
So Uncle went reluctantly into his own
war. The uprise of a European Power
which might be both able and willing to
bash the Monroe Doctrine with a great
smite was something to be guarded against.
Before and after April, 1917, the Allies
fought Uncle’s battle, and they are now
paying heavily for being allowed to fight it.
*
The Anti-Roadhogs.
The fact that the motorist who doesn’t
observe the rules of the road and of good
manners is as much a menace to other
motorists and to his passengers as he is to
pedestrians has been recognised in a prac-
tical way by the formation in Sydney of an
Anti-Roadhog League. The members are
all motorists, and they have pledged them-
selves to do their best to make things un-
pleasant for the reckless driver.
There is a spacious field for the labors of
the new organisation in N. S. Wales and
particularly in Sydney, where the density
of the traffic, the peculiar lay-out of many
of the streets, and the unending succession
of up-grades and down-grades multiply the
hazards of driving. Added to this is the
relatively high speed which is insisted upon
by the traffic police. The loitering motor-
ist is, of course, a serious obstruction to
traffic, but in a city where speed, up to a
certain rate, is regarded as a civic virtue,
it becomes very difficult to control speed.
In such busy thoroughfares as William-
street and Oxford-street cars travelling at
50 miles an hour are, at certain times of
the day, as thick as leaves in Vallombrosa.
If the Anti-Roadhogs can discourage
excessive speed within city limits they will
cut out the cause of 50 per cent, of the
accidents that occur.
♦-
In the Murray River Region.
The Federal Development and Migration
Commission is a costly and hazy institution
with authority to inquire into everything
under the sun, and to report on the past,
the present and the future. As a beginning,
it has reported on the dried-fruits industry,
which chiefly concerns the Murray Valley,
the Murray River and the streams adjoin-
ing. Some £33.000,000 of loan money has
been laid out on land repurchase, reclama-
tion, irrigation and advances to settlers in
these parts, and it is reckoned that
£14,000.000 more will be required to com-
plete things. The D. and M. Commission
advises that the three State Governments
involved should definitely discourage further
planting until they can scare up additional
markets of an assured description.
It is said that, among other troubles, there
are too many small packing sheds. These
add to the cost of handling, but whether
they make a corresponding economy by re-
ducing the cost of haulage to big central
establishments doesn’t appear. There are
proposals for a boss ruling committee of
Government nominees, for the establish-
ment of a central selling organisation in
London, for some more financing (through
the Commonwealth Bank this time), and
for sending the inevitable man to the United
States to look round.
The nominal value of Australia’s exports
of dried fruit was £1,648,538 in 1926-27, which
was about £300,000 less than in 1924-25. It
looks respectable, but a lot of money is
required to cover the cost of cultivation,
water, drying and packing, the keep of the
irrigator and his family, rent, interest and
conveyance of the goods to the big city or
the port of shipment. And London is a
long way oft. As for an assured market, it
is difficult to imagine one except here —when
the country has many more people of the
manufacturing class to buy fruit, and in
consequence spends much less on foreign
manufactured goods.
Victoria, in addition to carrying its share
of the fruit problem, has another difficulty.
Its northern wheat country had a drought,
the extent of which is the subject of argu-
ment. The Hogan Government passed an
Act providing for advances to distressed
agriculturists. To this it added a Postpone-
ment of Payments law, making it practi-
cally impossible for anybody to collect any
debt, including a mortgage and the interest
thereon, from any farmer over a wide area
until after February, 1929. Storekeepers
and others say that it is very kind of the
Hogans to help the settlers at other people’s
expense. But they add that they have
been considerably postponed already, and
that keeping their non-paying customers in
supplies for another 12 months is a pro-
spect that does not appeal to them, especi-
ally as they have creditors themselves.
They ask whether Hogan will guarantee
them against another drought. It is even
proposed that Hogan should pay the bills
himself, and collect from the man on the
land later on; and mortgage-holders cordi-
ally agree.
4
Australian Pathfinders.
One of the most notable adventures in the
history of Australian exploration has been
brought to a successful conclusion by the
Government expedition which set out last
September to cross New Guinea at its
widest and highest part. The distance tra-
versed is only about 400 miles in a straight
FEEDS THAT WON THE EMPIRE.
“For the first time in history'll Empire Agents-General held a joint meeting, and discussed the pro-
posat of the South Australian Agent-General (Mr. Price) to initiate an annual dinner with a view to
developing a closer Empire spirit among themselves.” — Cable.
Agent-General (THE BULLETIN has rolled the 11 into one jor convenience): “God
blesh the goo’ Empire shpirit!”
line from point to point, but it is estimated
that from 1200 to 1500 miles were actually
covered.
In between the headwaters of the Fly
River, which rises in Central Papua, and
the headwaters of the Sepik, rising in Cen-
tral New Guinea, is a tangled mass of
mountains ascending to a height of 18,000
feet. These great eminences are shattered,
ravined and craggy beyond imagination,
and are everlastingly clothed in mist and
rain, while there is a yard-deep carpet of
wet moss on the floor of the tangled jungle.
The mountain tops carry no game and sup-
port no inhabitants. The populated zones
on either flank had never seen a white man
until this party passed through.
It was a tiny expedition, after the manner
of Papua. Two white officials, six native
police and some 30 carriers. Much of the
time it would have to rely on the country
for subsistence, and though this would be
possible when the populated zones were
reached, there was first the task of placating
the native owners of gardens who had never
seen or heard of Europeans. Once the Sepik
was reached the worst must have been over.
The original idea was to cut a way down
the great river, and this seems to have been
done. No trouble appears to have been ex-
perienced with natives, though those on the
lower reaches of the river have an ugly
reputation among the whites that have come
in contact with them.
This is. the first time that the mysterious
island has been crossed in its widest extent.
The achievement is of the greatest interest
to geographers and ethnologists, and it
should be a matter of pride to Australia,
for the white officials, C. H. Karius and
Ivan Champion, are both Australians.
Karius is resident magistrate for the West-
ern Division of Papua; Champion is a
patrol officer in the same division.
♦
Oil Going Up King-street.
“It is the duty of this Court,” remarked the
Registrar in Bankruptcy (N.S.W.) when re-
fusing certificates of discharge to two bank-
rupts of whose conduct he strongly dis-
approved, “to endeavor to protect the
morality of trade.”
Trade and bankruptcy have had a long
association in the history of law. Down to
the time of Henry VIII. traders had a loose
leg and had to be coerced into the pay-
ment of their lawful debts. The early Act
confined itself to traders, and it was not
till the reign of Queen Bess that non-traders
who could not satisfy their creditors were
dealt with. From that date on to 1861
there was a cleavage between bankruptcy
and insolvency. In the Bankruptcy Court
the trader could get full absolution. The
insolvent non-trader in his court —for the
two courts were quite distinct—could not.
In the Court of Bankruptcy the trader was
called upon to furnish a full account of all
his property and was cross-examined with
severity, the thumb-screw being occasion-
ally thrown in. When the Court was satis-
fied that it had purged him of all relevant
information as to what he had admittedly
in ownership and what he had concealed, it
called on the creditors to come in and prove
their debts. They also had the fear of God
nut into them, and when the Court had
been satisfied as to their good faith -it pro-
ceeded to divide the crumbs among the
acknowledged creditors. Everything the
trader had, save his doublet and hose of
sober color, his bed, his tools of trade, if
any, and a few personal odds and ends, went
to the creditors. He walked out of court
hungry but cleansed. Thereafter he could
trade as before.
Not so with the mere insolvent, though
he might be a peer of the land. Country
squires, professional men and other non-
traders on the rocks of impecuniosity, and
badgered by their creditors, petitioned the
Court of Insolvency for relief, not as in the
Bankruptcy Court, where the creditors initi-
ated the proceedings. Obviously such a
petition was lodged only in extremis, when
it was a choice between imprisonment for
debt and such charity as the Court could
bestow. Petitioners underwent much the
same process as in the Bankruptcy Court,
but with this distinction: the bankrupts
could get a discharge, the insolvents never
could. They got relief from imprisonment
by handing over their available assets, but,
no certificate of discharge. They were free
only when, if ever, they paid twenty shil-
lings in the pound.
This delightful Court was established by
Elizabeth, and it remained for Victoria to
abolish it. Since 1861 the insolvent has
been admitted.to all the privileges of the
trading bankrupt, and now the terms bank-
ruptcy and insolvency have become prac-
tically interchangeable; they are both de-
fined as conditions whose fundamental prin-
ciple is an inability to pay debts.
If the honest trader is not quite the
noblest work of God he is, at all events, a
very desirable person; and the thanks of
the community are due to Mr. Registrar
Lockhart for his efforts to keep the good
man pure and undefiled.
The Revolutionary Machine.
It would be interesting to know what
Moscow does with its extra officials when
the World Revolution strikes a bad season.
It must have some form of dole or unem-
ployment insurance.
When the Chinese Nationalists started a
year ago from their centre of disaffection
and disease at Canton to conquer the rest
of the country, they enlisted the assistance
of the Soviet, and hordes of Bolshevik
emissaries arrived with the promptitude of
crows round a dead sheep. The Communist
organisation sat down at Hankow on the
ruins of the British commercial settlement,
and within a few weeks it looked as if it
had been there for years. The administra-
tive block was a beehive. Russian girl
typists by the score were taking down
despatches. Printing presses hummed.
Secret agents sped to the four corners of
the country. There was a committee of
propaganda for every form of delusion the
witless minds of doctrinaires could devise.
The length of Chinese flappers’ trousers
and the size of the bald patch on the skulls
of Buddhist priests became subjects for
revolutionary control. There was committee
within committee, and the central one of
all directed the murders of members of
other committees who appeared to stand
in the way.
The great organisation had only just got
into its stride and fresh hordes of delegates
were packing their portmanteaus for
Hankow when the military machine on
which the whole edifice of bluff was based
collapsed. The typists w'ere trundled off
to Harbin and the leaders vanished per
aeroplane and car. All that was left of the
alleged attempt to communise 400 million
people, 90 per cent, of whom are individual-
istic peasants, was an empty cashbox and
such uprisings of the city mob as the
latest disturbance in Canton.
But it all shows that the talk of World
Revolution is not something to be merely
laughed at. Here is a machine ready to be
shifted at a moment’s notice to any part
of the world where the; ground has been
sufficiently prepared—a machine which, if it
can do no good, can certainly do a vast
amount of harm.
♦
Film-making in Germany.
“H.W.A.”: Film production in Europe still
centres in Germany. At the head of the
industry, the Ufa Co. stands pre-eminent.
The studios and producing plant of this co.
are the largest and most up-to-date in the
world outside Hollywood. Besides the Ufa
numerous firms work at maximum pres-
sure. Trade shows are taking place daily,
and many of the German productions are
finding a place on the foreign market. Dur-
ing the Hindenburg celebrations, German ex-
hibitors screened only films made in the
Fatherland. All this points to a flourishing
condition in the German film industry,
thanks undoubtedly to the “kontingent”
system. The “kontingent” for the 1928
season has just been confirmed and will re-
main 1 (German) to 1 (imported).
A very striking feature of German
production is that producers regard war
films like the plague, and the industry
in all its branches is loud in its outcry
against the British and American film of
this type. The decision of an English co.
to produce an Edith Cavell film caused
much bitter comment. The antagonism is
easy to account for, because the German bias
everything to lose when a war film ;omes
on the market, as it is invariably anti-
German—“a hate film,” as they call it.
There have been three notable exceptions,
however, to the rule against war films made
in Germany—“ Mata Hari, the Red Dancer,”
“Our Emden” and “Richthofen, the Red
Knight of the Air.” These films have all
been produced with a view to the box-office
and the foreign market.
These three were put on the most favor-
able basis for taxation purposes because of
their high artistic qualities. The first was
a radical innovation in screen entertain-
ment; the others excel in treatment. This is
the point, and Australian and M.L. censor
authorities might take a hint. The Austral-
asian film question is not going to be
solved by a “kontingent” system; at least,
not for some time. But if censor authorities
in Australia and Maoriland were placed in
a position to discriminate like the German
authorities, fewer and better films would
come to Australasian screens. Instead of
an influx of second-rate American junk,
audiences would see worth-while British and
Continental attractions.
+
The Russian Revolution is a very second-
rate affair compared with the French up-
heaval which dates from 1789, but it has
furnished mam- parallels. In each case the
thing was started by men of the middle
class and captured by mob leaders with a
fanatic belief in the doctrines of a literary
gent. In each case the church was dis-
established and atheism became fashionable;
the land was divided among the peasants,
with vast slaughter of the old nobility; there
were half-hearted foreign invasions, civil
wars,’wholesale murder of political opponents
under legal forms, collapse of the currency
and a split in the victorious party. The
banishment of Trotsky, Rakovsky and
Zinoviev recalls the banishment of Collot
d’Herbois, Billaud and Barere by their
former friends. Even LENiN-worship had its
French Revolutionary parallel, though there
was no barbarous exhibition of the body.
The remains of Marat were described by a
Jacobin orator as “precious relics of a god.”


The Federal Mutual
CKSWODAfr
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation /ct 1926.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors: R. Rawnsley Moss, Chairman; W. B. Ainsworth, Esq.; T. A. Magney, Esq.;
S. Sampson, Esq.; J. T. Turner, Esq.
Victorian Branch: S(»0-t56 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
uecnsland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: Weymouth Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
DEPENDABLE YEAR-IN-YEAK-OUT SERVICE
W
-h!
is expecced and received
from
MANGROVITE
LEATHER OR
RAW - HIDE
BELTING
Little wonder that this good belting gives such trouble-free service, for the best, us r
special tanning processes and over forty years of experience go to its making,
belting troubles to our engineers; their expert advice is free.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
Charles Ludotvici, Managing Director.
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS.
A dignified, full-blown commission of
three, with a £l6OO chairman, has been
appointed to collect more Federal land-tax,
or to collect it better, or something. Andrew
Fisher devised this impost in 1910 to “break
up big estates,” but the great bulk of it is
derived from the cities, where it falls on
properties which aren’t big, but only absurdly
dear. When a shop site which used to be
worth £40,000 changes hands at £lOO,OOO
the desire to break it up becomes a mania.
But it is impossible to break up a £lOO,OOO
city site in 20, so the tax is passed on to
the consumer, and all the more easily as
everybody is passing it on.
The new Federal basic wage runs from
£4 a week in Perth and £4 os. 6d. in Bris-
bane to £4 9s. 6d. in Melbourne and £4 13s.
in Sydney. In other words, an employer
in Perth and Brisbane can employ seven
men for what it costs to employ six men in
Sydney. If somebody proposed that the
Commonwealth should charge a 20 p.c.
Customs duty in one State and a 25 p.c.
duty in another State there would be a fine
howl of “Unconstitutional”! But where’s
the difference?
The new City of Canberra, an Ellerman
liner, is on her way to Australia. Those
who planned her knew what they were about.
“In proportion to dimensions,” says the
report, “the City of Canberra has the great-
est possible deadweight capacity.”
Diphtheria has killed many thousands of
little Australians, and in spite of improved
sanitation and methods of treatment it still
takes a heavy toll of infant life. Worried
by serious outbreaks in parts of Queensland,
the Bundaberg Town Council decided upon
compulsory inoculation of the young children
in its district. Serum from the Common-
wealth Health Department was used on two
lots of kiddies without incident. Then some-
thing went wrong, and on Sunday 12 little
children were dead and five others gravely
ill. Nothing so heartrending has happened
in Australia since the war.
Vic. does not like State deficits, and it is
recalling, significantly, that there were
always surpluses, without increased taxa-
tion, while McPherson was Treasurer, from
November, 1917, to November, 1923. There
was even a surplus for the balance of
1923-24 after Mac resigned from the Law-
son-Allan team. The truth is that part of
Ilogan’s financial troubles is traceable to
loans floated in McPherson’s time for things
which have failed to yield interest. But the
public has a short memory in these matters
and regards unlucky Governments in the
same light as unfortunate military or naval
commanders.
The N. S. Wales branch of the A.L.P.
has been holding a conference at Young, in
the Mid-West, the idea being to show "the
great primary industries” that Jock Garden’s
their friend, not Bavinshaw. It would
simplify matters if the A.L.P. would define
“the great primary industries.” Does the
A.L.P. mean the workmen, or the bossesi
Presumably the A.L.P. is also a friend of
the great coal-mining industry; but Mr.
Badly’s concern for the mineowner hasn’t
thus far been conspicuous. Also the A.L.P.
is, of course, a friend of the great shipping
industry; but Mr. Johanson’s heart bleeds
for the poor shipowner just about as much
as Mr. Lang’s probably bleeds for the farm-
owner.
Maoriland is rejoicing over its trade
figures for 1927, which show a balance of
exports over imports of £3,713,000. The re-
duction in imports in comparison with 1926
was over £5,000,000. But the horrid fact
still obtrudes itself that the Shivery Isles
must have a surplus of about £6,000,000 a
year before it can meet its foreign interest
bill without borrowing for the purpose. The
credit of the islanders is still very good
at J. Bull’s pawnshop, and they haven’t yet
been asked to tap New York, but the car-
dinal motto of the “colonial” politician—
tnat posterity must pay—is still the ruling
principle of Maoriland finance.
If they had half as much regard for the
poor thing’s comfort as they should have, the
British Cobden Club would put poor
Richard’s corpse on a swivel these days. The
latest announcement regarding England’s
“Freetrade” is that thymol, a largely used
chemical, has 30 p.c. protection in Britain.
In “Protectionist” Australia, which abounds
in raw material for thymol manufacture, the
duty is 15 p.c. foreign, free British.
The Murray River works made Hume
(N.S.W.) a Labor electorate, which it never
was before. With the aid of the big block
vote from the Hume reservoir, Parker
Moloney has won the seat at three elections.
But his majority was only 320 in 1925, and
it is expected that a lot more than 320
Labor-unionists will have to leave the district
owing to the curtailment of loan expenditure,
so the Nat.-Cockies are saying that Moloney
is a gone coon. It is a queer situation, and
it provides an argument for the segregation
of the Government-employee, vote. The repre-
sentation of an electorate, involving perhaps
the fate of a Ministry, should not depend
upon the engagement or dismissal of Goyern-
n.cnt employees.
The general president of the A.L.P. at the
Young Conference said that one of the
party’s main objects is “the maintenance of
racial purity.” It would be good news if
it wasn’t such obvious humbug. The gentle-
men who send delegations to Canton and
Moscow don’t really care two straws about
racial purity; their troubles whether Mr.
Theodore is any purer English than Mr.
Lazzarini! What they do hate is to see
other folks, Italians or Czechs, coming into
the country to do more work for the same
money as the misled Australian. It isn’t
the standard of living that is in danger; it
is the standard of loafing. Until the Labor
party is the enemy of the loafer, no matter
wliat sort of clothes he wears, it can’t be
the friend of Australia.
Theodore has stated languidly that there
is lack of evidence about a desire for Separ-
ation in North and Central Queensland. If
there is it may be simply because people are
tired after half a century of vain endeavor.
But the fact remains that Queensland is
per cent, tropical land, and that area
contains less than a quarter of the popula-
tion. It is doing better than, its tropical
neighbors, partly because of its law-created
sugar monopoly, which constitutes more than
half its agricultural wealth (over £6,000,000
per annum out of £12,000,000) and partly
because it has traces of decentralisation,
being governed by outsiders who are some
hundreds of miles nearer to it than the absen-
tees who run tropical W.A. Still, it hangs
fire very much as South Queensland did
before South Queensland set up for itself.
In 1921-22 Australia bought £85,976-
worth of goods from Germany. It is now
buying German, goods at the rate of
£4,700,000-worth per annum. That helps to
prevent Fritz Sauerkraut being an unem-
ployed deputation.
The “Traffic Advisory Board” met on a
recent day and discussed some grandiose
schemes for dealing with the congestion of
ever-growing Sydney. They included two
overhead roadways, underground roads,
ordinary roads, underground trams and sun-
dries, with, of course, the necessary re-
sumptions—at £lOOO a foot in one instance.
No one ever suggests diverting some of the
congestion by building a new coastal city
and making an honest effort to encourage it
—not an effort to strangle it with weird
railway rates. Yet it has been officially de-
clared that Canberra is now a paying pro-
position—’Berra, which is only a half-time
town living on politics. If ’Berra pays even
(id. in the £ there are great prospects for
a new port or two when the pioneering spirit
is born again.
The uniform Bankruptcy Act passed the
Federal Parliament in 1924, and it hasn’t
got to work yet. Still it has been pro-
claimed, and it will start when the bureau-
crats are quite ready, with the reservation
that all business which is “pending” when
the Act enters on its official career will be
left to the expiring State courts. This will
give the new law a little more time to get
properly rested. In the long procession of
the years uniform marriage, divorce, banking,
insurance and company laws may happen, but
this isn’t a land of haste.
Dvorkovitz, the Russian scientist who
escaped after the Red fool-fury had sentenced
him to death on the ground that a man
who knew things must be hostile, has been
demonstrating an invention which is said
to have made England sit up. It is reckoned
to produce from a ton of bituminous coal
four gallons of motor spirit, IS gallons of
oil and 2021 b. of various substances (paraffin
wax, phenol, pitch, ammonia and sulphur).
After that there are 15cwt. of superior
smokeless fuel left. The result is to be that
coal can be sold at 7s. per ton less, or that
someone wilt make 7s. per ton more. A really
smokeless fuel should make chimneys super-
fluous. and they are great wasters of heat:
also they are ugly, and cost money to build
and clean,, and burglars sometimes come down
them. If the Russian whom the Soviet so
nearly scragged has really made possible fac-
tory towns without smoke-stacks he lias done
a great deed.
If there is any branch of Government
activities which has been well investigated
in Victoria it is the railways. The “King”
Casey Commission, which Premier Turner
created in 1895, and the Dicky Vale Commis-
sion, which Premier Peacock set up in 1902,
produced voluminous reports of which little
or no notice was taken. The Caseys recom-
mended the appointment of a board of direc-
tors (called a trust), including a Cabinet
Minister, and a general manager. The Vales
suggested a triumvirate, the Minister for
Railways, as chairman, to have the right
to over-ride the other two. The bosses of
the Itailwaymen’s Union acclaim the Hogan
Commission, as they see a chance of pro-
tected witnesses being able to make a tar-
get of Commissioner Clapp, but if anything
comes of the report it will be a miracle.
Customs-Minister Pratten will have an
opportunity, when he goes to Maoriland, of
doing some practical peace-making. Aus-
tralia and the Shivery Isles do a fair amount
of trade together—exports to M.L. average
about millions a year, and imports from
the Dominion about two millions. The
only part of the trade that causes any
friction is the farm-produce part of it, in
regard to which there are occasional allega-
tions of dumping. The islanders have
clapped a fairly heavy duty on Australian
wheat and flour, and Australia protects her
farmers by duties on butter, cheese and
potatoes. With proper safeguards against
dumping it oughn’t to be difficult to come
to a reciprocal agreement that would smooth
down ruffled feathers on both sides of the
Tasman.
Mr. Charlton has suddenly wakened to
the fact that the national balance-sheets are
misleading. Dr. Page claimed a surplus of
£2,635,000, though the Auditor-General said
it was really only £135,000. Like a lot of
other people, Mr. Charlton evidently thinks
that a balance-sheet is a matter of fact,
whereas usually for the most part it is a
matter of opinion. What does count is
the amount by which this country is short
of paying its foreign debts —in other words,
how much its exports are short of its imports
plus its foreign-interest bill. Alongside that
—and those figures are not estimates — 1
everything else is small spuds, and grubby
at that. Yet The Bulletin doesn’t notice
Mi*. Charlton taking any great interest in
that question.
An Anti-Roadhogs’ League has been
formed in Sydney, and most of the members
are said to be motorists. They were bound
to find out sooner or later that it isn’t the
pedestrian who suffers most from the hog—
it is the other motorist. Policies covering
three-party risks have, however, unmasked
the position; and now actually some brilliant
minds have devised a scheme for insuring
the car-driver against having to pay his own
fines. Presumably this will be declared illegal
as .being opposed to public policy; if it
isn’t, the only thing to do will be to knock
off fining for bad breaches of the traffic law 3
and make it gaol. So far these gentlemen
don’t offer to go to gaol for you.
Complaint 'was made in Judge Beeby’s
court about the undue officiousness of a
“vigilance officer” —the unproductive indi-
vidual who walks up and down the wharf
all day ready to find fault and make stop-
pages. The case was one where a vessel
had to leave part of its cargo behind because
the official got the hump and ordered his
subjects to quit work. This was how the
evidence went:—
Vigilance Officer: What I drew the attention of the
foreman to was that there was an agreement to work
10 men below to obviate unfair strain.
Lawyer: There were 10 men in the hold.
Vigilance Officer: But not two men upending. The
Board of Reference decided that 12 men must be
in'a gang.
Lawyer: When was that? At the time?
Vigilance Man: No; some time after.
Apparently the stipendiary workstopper in-
vented a regulation on the spur, created a
hold-up on the strength of it and got it con-
firmed “some time after.” The Court meekly
decided to make “a slight variation in the
award” so as to smooth his path.
“The Railway Crisis” becomes a familiar
heading in most of the States. The causes of
the “crisis” are principally increased pay,
much shorter hours, industrial disturbances,
new railways built in too much of a hurry
at too much expense and too often in the
wrong place, too many dead ends, accumula-
tion of neglected repairs, forced renewal
of loans at any price the lender demands
because shiftless fools forgot to provide sink-
ing funds, decay of mining towns, motor
competition and an only moderate harvest.
A negative cause of distress is that Aus-
tralia creates no new industrial towns to
replace the defunct mineral centres. Under
conditions like these the road to Heaven
wouldn't have much chance.
Poor old Sisyphus, if he were still alive,
would have a lot of sympathy for Federal
Arbitration Judge Beeby, who proposes to
patch, plaster, darn and titivate the water-
side workers’ award so that “vigilance
officers” won’t be tempted to start strikes.
Past experience has shown that every new
trimming of the award creates new oppor-
tunities for discord. As it stands the award
provides for the submission of all disputes
to a proper tribunal, and any stoppage of
work by order of a union boss is a breach
of the award. It won’t be any more or less
of a breach when Beeby, J., has run out of
patches. Until the Court shows a disposition
to enforce its awards it will be useless to
expect unions to respect them.
Not since a sometime N.S.W. Labor
Premier genially referred to the controllers of
the party executive as “a gang of uncouth
crooks” have the papers printed such an
amiable summing-up of one rival by another
as that delivered by Jacob Johanson respect-
ing his one-time fellow-martyr Thomas
Walsh. Jacob’s reply to Tom’s appeal for
a ballot of seamen on the questions in dispute
between the interesting pair was that the
request reminded him of a convicted murderer
begging the Judge and jury to hang with
him so as to prove his innocence. Bailey
and Willis will be hard put to it to beat that.
The Vic. Labor Government decided that
some 700 railway men must be dispensed
with. After the inevitable talk of “direct
action” it was suggested that the full staff
might be kept on even if there wasn’t enough
work to keep them busy, and the railway
revenue be helped out with a loan, but the
Minister replied sadly that the Loan Council
wouldn’t stand it, and the people who were
asked for money might not stand it either.
So there remains the inexorable alternative
of hacking down the imports bill with a
big axe, and making a lot of things instead
of buying them from outsiders. And if
too many men don’t know 7 how to make any-
thing saleable the community can go short
while they are learning. Something of the
sort might do the community good, like
taking exercise on an empty stomach.
Russia sent one of its clumsy men to the
conference at Geneva, where he fired a huge
blank cartridge by proposing that all defence
forces should be disbanded, and all arma-
ments melted dowm. No one took notice,
for a number of reasons. As the United
States holds aloof from all these doings there
is no chance of all-round disarmament, and
there wouldn’t be in any case. Russia s
8,186,144 square miles is too vast an area
to be searched for concealed armies and
weapons, and no one believes in the sin-
cerity of a Power which owns up to a
standing army of 562,000 men and is sus-
pected of 850,000. China can’t be searched
either owing to standing armies of brigands.
Then the white man isn’t going to lay aside
the advantage of science, and come down to
the level of the savage or semi-savage, who
might prove the more muscular of the two
in a club fight.
The Emigration Department of Malta has
a grudge against Canada, which practically
refuses admission to Maltese, and a lesser
grudge against Australia, which imposes
various restrictions on entrance. About
4000 Maltese migrate annually, migration
being necessary on account of over-popula-
tion. Italians, they complain at Yaletta, are
allowed free entrance to the Commonwealth,
while Maltese, who are British subjects, are
put under the microscope before they are
allowed to land. Yet the Maltese Govern-
ment, as it points out with a mixture oi
pride and resentment, possesses unsolicited
testimonials from S. M. Bruce, Mat Chari-
ton and other eminent personages concern-
ing the worthiness of Maltese migrants.
BACK TO RUNNYMEDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. A. D. Kay, ex-M.L.A., in his petition to the
King asking redress for being removed from the
N.S.W. Meat Board by Act of Parliament and refused
compensation, points out: ‘Magna Cliarta has insisted
that every man shall have justice done unto him,
and in my case, by the action of your Majesty’s
Ministers, Magna Charta has been nullified.’ ”
’Tis seven centuries since at Runnymede
The barons wrested from a stubborn king
Tlie schedule of our liberties—a deed
That down the rolling ages was to ring.
While England shall endure we’re all agreed
That script remains a super-precious thing.
Justice, my liege, I crave, who’m made a
martyr
In impudent defiance of the Charter.
What! may a man not sell wliate’er he hold
By right?—a seat in Parliament, to wit,
With its appurtenances manifold
(And the constituents who gave him it) ?
May he not vend such property for gold
Or for a job that means a tidy bit
Without the Ministry that’s next to enter
Upsetting the transaction as a schlenter?
Was it for this that bearded nobles thrust
Into the hand of one deemed half-divine
A quill, with intimation that he must
His royal mark make, if he couldn’t sign?
In that worn parchment is my hope and
trust,
The glorious palladium of our line.
For freemen’s rights they faced a king and
conquered:
Shall Kay, for standing on the same, be
stonkered ?
Your gracious Majesty the sort is not
To see a servant from his place and pay
Abruptly thrown, incontinently shot,
When he has bought it in a legal way.
Past Runnymede has doubtless flowed a lot •
Of water since old Johnny Lackland’s day,
But, say, in bouncing me—and here’s what
matters—
They’ve torn the sacred Charter into tatters!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS
“Nakhoda”: Since the movie people
started snapping wild animals in their lairs
Melbourne Zoo has been providing rather
a frowsy-looking entertainment, but it may
have a novelty on view shortly. It is pro-
posed to obtain a couple of the “dragons”
of Komodo in the Dutch East Indies.
These beasts, of which aviator Cobham first
brought news to Australia, are practically
our old friend the goanna magnified to the
size of the largest alligator and with a
ferocity to match. As they are alleged to
hunt the small horses of their native
habitat by leaping on their backs, it would
THE CHRISTIAN ATTITUDE .
“I must say, Lena, that I don't like to see you in a drees like that."
“As a Christian, Charlie, you ought to think of others."
be an attractive sideshow to let them have
their meals in public. After that the tin-
hare companies might import a few and race
them after a mechanical pony.
❖ * %
“Lao-dah”: Last year, according to
Wickens, Binghi increased his numbers
from 59,296 to 59,945, but as the bulk of
him is given to nomadic habits and the,
census of the untutored savage in the more
remote parts of W.A. and the Northern
Territory is largely a matter of guesswork,
the figures don’t carry much conviction.
Probably all that has happened is that a
few more natives of previously unfixed abode
have drifted into the reserves and missions.
What is certain, however, is that the half-
caste is multiplying, and rapidly. In 1925
there were 13,393; last year there were
15;468. Since Tasmania went out of the
running, Vic. leads in the race of extermina-
tion of the full-blood. There are only 29
men and 19 women left, and between them
they can muster but eight tawny pledges of
affection. It is safe to say that the bulk
of white Victorians have never seen an abo.
Four out of the six people in the Melbourne
office in which I am writing haven’t, at any
rate.
* * * sjs
“Mars”: A Port Adelaide wharfie, under
the joint influence of hot weather and
cold beer, sought a secluded spot for
a snooze. Unfortunately
he picked a steamer on
the point of departure,
and when he awoke he
was well on his way to
the West. A few days
later he was haled before
the Fremantle Fol i c e
Court and as a stowaway
sentenced to 30 days'
imprisonment. As lie had
purposely given a wrong-
name he deemed it inad-
visable to write and ex-
plain things to his wife,
contenting himself with
taking the first boat back
to S. Aus. when his
month was up. He was
the first man off the
steamer at Port Adelaide,
and was breaking records
on the homeward track
when a burly policeman
intercepted him and took
him in charge on a war-
rant issued by his wife
for desertion !
“Mars”: Another hair
has been successfully
split in the Adelaide
Police Court. Two men
were charged with light-
ing in a public place.
They pleaded not guilty,
on the ground that they
were wrestling, not fight-
ing. The P.M. was suf-
ficiently impressed by the
distinction to dismiss the case.
“Tahune” : An unusual mail was dropped
into Hobart G.P.O. recently when the steamer
Gambia River, from Mexico, brought 150
letters from little Pitcairn Island. All
carried M.L. stamps, but there was no post-
mark, possibly because there is no post
office where they came from. The islanders
apparently live up to their old traditions, as
they refused to take either grog or tobacco in
exchange for some produce they bartered
to the mail-carrier. And instead of asking
for any literature, they presented the skipper
with a bundle of tracts for the consumption
of himself and his crew. We may yet see a
mission invading Australia from the isolated
islet where the Bounty mutineers settled
down in 1790.
* * * s&
“A.R.D.F.”: At Ngatira (M.L.) I spent a
night in a Maori pah recently, after a 30-
mile walk through the bush. As I lay in
my rugs in a corner of the big whare
where the whole tribe slept the older mem-
bers stood up in turn and made speeches,
while the younger ones smoked, sang and
chewed tobacco. Presently the aged chief-
tainess arose and called for silence. Then
she began speaking, and I gathered from
her gestures that her remarks had some-
thing to do with me. When she had finished
the wrinkled old chief took up the running
and got whjat seemed a powerful bit of
rhetoric off his chest. Perhaps an elaborate
and picturesque welcome to the stranger
within their gates, I thought. “What’s he
talking about?” I asked finally of a Maori
girl at my elbow who I had discovered
could speak English. “Oh,” she replied, “he
just wondering if you know what win the
Rotorua Cup to-day”!
“S.V.D.”: At most Melbourne restaurants
waitresses are entitled to so much money and
so many meals per week; it is scarcely neces-
sary to add that some proprietors give the
girls the plainest of food. One establish-
ment, controlled by an ultra-niggardly soul,
found itself employing a staff composed en-
tirely of R.C. damsels, who made their
creed the ground for demanding fish on Fri-
days. The boss was dubious, but, lacking
direct proof, he consented to humor his staff.
Quite recently, however, he appears to have
got a wrinkle from somewhere, for the other
SAVING THE FAMILY HONOR.
“So teacher heard you saying naughty words. Tommy, and caned youT’
“Yes, and she asked- me where I learned such dreadful language."
"Yes, and what, did you tell her?"
"I didn’t like to tell her daddy , s o I S aid it waft a parrot."
Friday morning he interviewed the girls, one
at a time, and requested them to say certain
prayers. Those who survived the test were
considered genuine; for those who failed
beef has replaced fish in the Friday menu.
* * * *
“Ahab Muldoon”: In addition to produc-
ing those poems of haunting beauty which
appear from time to time in these pages, I
type the menus for the restaurant of Spiro
Halitosis, in return for two meals a day.
As a measure of common prudence, I try
to make my morning conference with the
chef inform me not only of the names
of the _ dishes to be mislabelled, but
also which it will be best for me to order
for my own eating. The other day we
featured “Devilled Kidneys” as a “Spesh.”
“What are they like?” I asked. “Oh, devil-
eesh,” Spiro assured me earnestly. I tore
into a cut of cold corned-beef.
* ■■■■■ * *
“P.M.”: A paragraph dealing with the
last flight of the German ace Richthofen
(B. 19/l/’2B) says that “Australian medico
Barber, the only doctor who examined the
dead flier, was positive at the time that his
issue had been sent up from the ground.”
I was present at the examination of Rich-
thofen’s body at the Australian Flying Corps
camp by an English medical officer attached
to the Royal Air Force, and heard him give
his opinion that the shot was fired “from
the same height in the air as the deceased
German was at the time he was hit.” The
same evening a Royal Air Force pilot and
an Australian Flying Corps pilot both lodged
claims to the distinction of having brought
down Richthofen. I typed the report of the
post-mortem examination, and also that of
the A.F.C. pilot’s claim, from the dictation
of Adjutant-Captain E. G. Knox, who was
present at the former. A par. of mine on
the recovery of Richthofen’s body and his
luneral at Bertangles appeared in The Bul-
letin in April, 1924.
* * * *
“A. Jack” : Situated almost in the heart
of the cattle and sheep country as it is, nc
one ever dreamed of Broken Hill being forced
to l-ely on chilled meat for its dinner.
Drought has, however, deprived the country
near and far of eatable cattle, and, although
rain has brightened things up for the
pastoralist, it will be some time before young
stock is ready for market. In the mean-
time the city is drawing supplies of chilled
meat from Brisbane, and both butchers and
public have certified it O.K.
* * * *
“Retired Volt”: One of Melbourne’s radio
amateurs is rather proud of his voice, which
he puts on the air at every available oppor-
tunity. The other morning in the small
hours he was letting himself go when he
was overwhelmed by a neighbor. As soon
as he could get a word in edgeways he
complained bitterly of this lack of air
courtesy. “Sorry,” came the reply, drawled
out in Morse so that all the listening world
could hear, “I didn’t know you were sing-
ing. I thought it was static!”
❖ * * *
“Kune”: Three adventurous M.L. moun-
taineers, Salmon, Sainbury and O. Sutcliffe,
have been investigating the crater of the
Dominion’s only active volcano—Mt. Ngau-
ruhoe (7515 ft.). After ascending to the sum-
mit the party climbed 350 feet down the
shelving slopes of the main crater to a ter-
race known as “Dead Horse Flat.” Thence,
equipped with ropes and improvised gas
masks, they dropped a further 150 feet
through dense sulphur fumes to the lip of
the main vent. This would have been deep
enough for most people, hut Salmon got his
companions to lower him another 25 feet,
till he was within that distance of the tur-
bulent lava bed. He was drawn up safe but
in a lather of perspiration, with bis eyes
seared and inflamed. “My greatest danger,”
he told a reporter, “was the super-heated
steam, which would boil a human being in
a second.”
❖ $ * *
“Coot”: The Lightning was only one of
several famous Australian clippers destroyed
by fire (B. 19/l/’2B). The Blue Jacket
was abandoned in flames off the Falklands
in 1869; two years later her figurehead was
washed up on Rottnest. off Fremantle,
charred but recognisable. The James
Baines, the Lightning’s great rival, was
burnt at Liverpool docks in 1S5S. The Em-
press of the Seas was burnt off Queenscliff
in 1S61, and in the same year the Sovereign
of the Seas caught fire in Sydney harbor
and was destroyed. The Ocean Chief was
burnt off The Bluff, Maoriland —in this case,
as in the last, one of the crew is believed
to have been responsible. The Fiery Star
caught fire in 1865, when 400 miles from
Chatham Island. For three weeks the chief
officer and 17 hands —the captain, passen-
gers and remainder of the crew having left
in boats—fought the flames; the Dauntless
providentially arrived and took them off
when the foremast was almost burned
through.
4 * 1i
“Carisbrook, Jun.”: A daring and useful
aerial feat that received the barest minimum
of mention in Australian dailies, packed with
cables about the exploits of trans-oceanic
fliers, was the recent crossing of New Guinea
from Port Moresby to Salamoa in three
hours. Parer and Pratt, both Australians,
took their own ’planes up to Port Moresby,
assembled them on Ela beach, and without
fuss hopped off across country covered with
jungle and forest through which no land
explorer could hack his way. A forced de-
scent would have meant less chance of a
rescue than in the Atlantic or the Tasman,
but the pair reckoned it was all in the day’s
work.
* =s * *
“The Listening-Insect”: Radio continues
to make Puck’s 40 minutes round the globe
look like a leisurely method of progression.
When Purachatra, the dapper Siamese
prince, was in this country he spoke from
3LO to Victorian listeners. By way of
retaliation a Melbourne concert reached
Pura’s home town the other evening. Not
haying any broadcasting equipment yet, the
prince had the music relayed to his friends
by land telephone, and so bucked was every-
one concerned that Siam is pushing ahead
with a short-wave station and promises to
relay Australian concerts as a part of the
regular curriculum. The thought of a
Siamese citizen sitting up to listen to the
latest witticism of Rupert Hazel and the
price of hides at Dalgety’s sales staggers
the imagination.
* * * *
“Crawl Stroke”: At Freshwater beach
(Sydney) on a recent holiday a score of
swimmers were caught by the undertow and
had to be dragged ashore by the life-savers.
Which simply shows that seaside develop-
ment brings dangers as well as amenities.
When the settlement that has now become
the staid suburb of Harbord was only a
gathering of camp cottages and tents, Fresh-
water beach was acclaimed “the safest in
Australia.” The oldest inhabitant had never
glimpsed a shark, and the undertow was un-
known. Regulated street drainage, pouring
big quantities of flood-waters into parts of
the bay instead of allowing it to filter down
all round, have probably created channels
which give the undertow its start; and
sharks have come in the wake of the fish
attracted by the outfall sewer which runs
under the headland between the little bay
and Manly.
* sfc Jjc s{:
“Eureka” : A priest, Father Euloge, intro-
duced to Maoriland what is now one of the
Dominion’s most anathematised pests, the
sweet briar (Rosa canina) . His reverence
came from France to take up mission work
in the Islands, and dwelt for some years at
Wairoa in a hut on the river bank. At the
door of his hut he carefully planted and
tended a sweet briar. When he left the
locality the dog-rose spread rapidly, birds
carried the seed away, and to-day it is
practically all over both islands.
ONE SUNDAY MORNIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One Sunday mornin’ on Gallipoli
Old Joe caine over ,to where Bill an’ me
'Ad dug our possie. ’Way round on the right
It was, an’ lumme, wasn’t ’e a sight!
‘E'd ’ad a shave an’ bath, just bloomin’
swank,
With water pindlied out o’ the Colonel's
tank.
An’ we got talkin’ then, as soldiers do,
About the rum, the . sergeant and the stew.
An’ ’ow we’d told the corp. to go to ’Ell,
An’ when we would be goin’ for a spell.
An’ then old Joe—’e was a well-read chap—
Starts tellin’ us about a ten-years’ scrap
They ’ad in Troy, which wasn’t far away,
So Joe made out, from where we were that
day.
A bloke ’ad pinched a bonzer tabby, then
’Er own bloke came to get ’er back again,
An’ all ’is cobbers came to see fair play,
Ah' in the end they got ’er safe away.
But Bill, ’e didn’t think a scrap could start
And last_ ten years about a blanky tart;
No jane ’e’d ever met was worth a brawl.
There must be something else behind it all.
But Joe again insisted it was so—
“ All ’Elen’s doin’ e’d read a lot, ’ad Joe.
Then Bill ’e said ’e couldn’t see no sense
In that at all, not ineaniu’ no offence
To Joe an’ all the stuff that ’e ’ad read:
“But where’s the sense in any war?” Joe
said.
“Did you blokes ever ’ave a look for it?”
An’ none of us said nothin’ for a bit.
An’ then the flamin’ sergeant came an’ blew
Us up an’ told us off for fatigew,
An’ so we found no answer to it; yet
Maybe we got as near as any get
When we sat talkin’, Joe an’ Bill an’ me,
One Sunday mornin’ on Gallipoli.
WESTRALIA.
OSCAR WALTERS.


“Sancho”: Speaking of bird song, the
much extolled note of the English lark can
be exactly imitated, a whistle and a cup of
water being the only things necessary for the
deception. And the birds themselves can’t
distinguish between the imitation and the
real thing. The nightingale’s jug-jug can be
simulated just as successfully. The despised
cuckoo very often sings a true third, and
sometimes a sharp third or even a fourth,
and thereby produces the nearest approach
to a musical harmony in nature.
**' * *
“G.J.” : Recent pars, about Mouut Gambier
remind me that most people who take any
interest in the town’s history know that it
was discovered, named and put on the map
by one Lieutenant Grant, a naval surveyor,
in the early part of last century, but few
could tell offhand where he got the name
from. A visitor from England, Mrs. Cun-
liffe Parker (nee Gambier), has recently
been refreshing memories. Lieutenant Grant,
who had served under her great-great uncle,
Admiral Lord Gambier, named the mount
after his old chief. The admiral and his
exploits are pretty well forgotten nowadays,
but there is mention of a vessel named after
him in .T. H. M. Abbott’s “The Memorialist”
(B. 25/l/’2B). He was altogether over-
shadowed by his great contemporaries, Nelson
and Collingwood, but he rendered his country
distinguished service in Danish and Baltii
waters.
H* sjc
“Angus O’Cohen” : Beyond doubt there are
several makes of British ’planes that might
be advantageously employed for the Tasman
flight, but their cost is much greater than
that of the American long-distance machines.
The Ryan monoplane which the ill-fated
M.L. airmen used cost £3OOO in America.
The best British quote that an Auckland
syndicate could get early last year was over
£7OOO for a Vickers-Viking with a flight-
range of 1600 miles. Neither the Common-
wealth nor the Maoriland Government has
put up a prize to encourage such a big
investment. As to the relative merits of
land and sea craft, the latter wouldn’t last
much longer in the middle of the Tasman,
and are harder to get aloft with the necessary
THE RISKS GIRLS RUN.
“It must be dreadful to be lost in the bush. They say you shed all your clothes.”
“Yes, and then your friends mightn’t know you were lost.”
petrol load. Since Bleriot flew the English
Channel most pioneer sea-flights have been
made in land machines. It’s the engine that
counts.
* * * *
“Ruru”: Unwanted infants have been
abandoned in some strange places. Years
ago when 11.M.5. Challenger was leaving
Auckland harbor one afternoon, after being
crowded with visitors in the morning, an
excited stoker reported the finding below of
a derelict morsel of humanity, the infant’s
only attire being a hatband bearing the
ship’s name draped significantly around it.
The vessel promptly returned to port and
the involuntary stowaw r ay was handed over
to an orphanage. It was presumed that the
mother had left it as a parting gift for
some fickle dad, but the latter modestly
preferred to remain incognito. The whole
ship’s company donated a day's pay towards
the future of' the little stranger.
* * * *
“Murkali”: Sydney had a “man they
couldn’t hang” (B. 19/l/'2B) among its
early-day citizens. It wasn't for want of
trying, either. In 1803 one
Joseph Samuels ascended the
scaffold (a two-wheeled cart
with a horse attached) at the
corner of Market and Castle-
reagh streets. The noose was
adjusted, and the signal
given and the cart driven off,
but the cord parted. A new
rope was adjusted and once
more Joseph was left in the
air, but this time, for the
lack of a proper hitch, the
rope unreeved and the un-
fortunate wretch came to
earth again. By this time
the crowd was getting restive,
but the condemned was sup-
ported on men’s shoulders
while “the executioner pre-
pared anew the work of
death.” Then the victim was
“gently lowered” the third
time, when the rope parted
close to the neck. It was
now considered that he had
suffered enough, and a re-
prieve was sought and ob-
tained. But nobody saw in
the failure of these attempts
to hang Samuels the finger of
Providence, as in the case of
Lee. the Babbacombe (Eng-
land) murderer, or suggested
that it was proof of his inno-
cence of whatever crime lie
had been condemned to die
for. In fact the Sydney
Gazette of the period as
good as told him he had been
singularly lucky. “And may
the grateful remembrance of
these events direct his future
course,” added the editor
piously.
“Light Horse” : The old pomp and panoply
of war is going bit by bit, and the latest of
authorised bloodshed’s accessories to be ruled
out is the lance. It is said to be useless
and out of date. Writer can recollect
hearing the same thing about the bayonet
and the sword, yet he has lived to see both
prove their value under suitable conditions.
As there are horses for courses, so there are
weapons specially suited to special cam-
paigns, and they will continue to be used
until all warfare is standardised to the same
pattern. The tank, for instance, so useful
in France, was a horrible failure in the open
spaces of Palestine, and the lance and sword,
comparatively worthless as weapons on the
West front, were a contributing factor to
Allenby’s final victories in the East, the
sword being most usefully employed by the
British Yeomanry and the Australian Light
Horse on a dozen occasions, while the Indian
Cavalry did some sweetly-pretty work with
tlie lance during the great debacle of the
Turkish armies before the occupation of
Damascus. On Gallipoli the bow and arrow
proved useful as a means for throwing flares
by night, and on all fronts, in the earlier
phases, the old Roman catapult did good
service as a bomb-thrower,
* * * *
“X.D.” : A sports Chrysler has been dis-
turbing the dreams and occupying the wak-
ing thoughts of the Melbourne police patrol,
It was stolen in November, and as there are
only two or three of its special kind in the
State it w-as easy to locate. But it was
not so easy to catch. Several times the
Lancia has come upon it or it has flitted
past; but, despite the speed of the police
car, the Chrysler has vanished from sight
like a projectile. “It seemed to get up to
85 in its own length,” remarked one dazed
Bobby. Just as the force was beginning
to wonder if it wasn’t a variant of the
Flying Dutchman the elusive machine was
discovered disabled in a suburban back yard,
As its captors were driving it to Russell-
street they had a blow-out and one of the
cops went to the nearest garage for assist-
ance. By a curious coincidence it was the
place where the owner had left his spare
wheel to be repaired before the car was
stolen.
AS IT WAS IN AUNTIE’S DAY.
REGINALD: “Don’t you think you could learn to love me?”
LOUISN: “I might, Reginald, I learned Greek at school.”
“Tim Tiki”: Hypnotism was used as an
anaesthetic for a major surgical operation in
Chicago recently. The operation, performed
on a young woman for an abdominal trouble,
was entirely successful, the patient having
been rendered.completely unconscious for an
hour. Has such an anaesthetic ever yet been
used in Australia?
* * * *
“Ledraw” : Islam is fast becoming commer-
cialised. The Turkish authorities are open-
ing to Christians and Jews for the first time
since the Moslem conquest Machpelah’s Cave
in Hebron, the reputed burial-place of Abra-
ham, Isaac and Jacob and other bygone
celebrities. The entrance fee has been fixed
at the equivalent of three shillings ; whether
this includes amusement-tax we don’t know
yet.
:!: * * *
“Macabre”: Further to these home-made
dentures, an innovator lobbed into Adelaide
the. other day with an aluminium set. He
is an ironfounder by trade and when he lost
his city-made outfit, he took an impression
and cast a mould. Plate and teeth are both
aluminium, and whether or not they are suit-
able for masticating work they are almost
certainly unbreakable.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Swanston-street, Melbourne, pre-
sented an unusual spectacle the other day.
Carpenters and carters employed by the
City Council to remove a wooden safety
zone which is to be replaced with concrete
were seen to start on their job in the usual
leisurely manner prescribed for municipal
unionists. A couple of boards had hardly been
torn out before everybody concerned began
to work as if they were putting through
a rush job. The reason was that somebody
had found a silver coin. The total spoil
recovered amounted to over a fiver before
the frenzied hunt concluded.
* * * *
“Sulieman” : Isn’t it high time our official
meteorologists should schedule the weather
according to Australian instead of English
ideas and abandon such terms as “fine” and
“bad” when they mean "dry” and “wet”?
When after a spell of drought and busli-fires
welcome rains are reported, followed by an
intimation that the weather is expected to
“improve” later, it is difficult for an Aus-
tralian to realise that a return of dry con-
ditions is meant. I remember hearing a
country boy stoutly denying that a lunar
halo presaged rain. His father, he ex-
plained, had impressed on him that it meant
bad weather.
* * * *
“Miro” : One of the interesting sidelights
of the deviation of the Waikato River
(M.L.) in connection with the big Arapuni
power scheme has been the uncovering of
an ancient forest that may have been in
good growing order about the time of the
Norman Conquest. Flood and volcanic sub-
sidence combined to cause its disappearance,
and, with that curious power of preserva-
tion that still baffles scientists, the swamp
water has kept the stumps intact until now.
Some of the timber is good enough for
fencing-posts, and most of it will make
excellent fuel. In several of the water-
covered swamps of North Auckland similar
ancient forests can be seen deep in the
water, where great branching trees have
stood in a preservative fluid for centuries.
Seekers for kauri-gum have a theory tliar
enormous deposits will be found under these
old forest giants when the swamps are
finally drained.
“Myob”: Heard a new reason for buying
a motor-car yesterday. It came in a cloud
of dust, and a '“Lizzie,” brand-new and
apparently not yet broken into the docility
expected of its kind. At the wheel I recog-
nised my neighbor, a corpulent cocky, par-
boiled and wrathful. Catching sight of me
he managed to bring the machine to an
abrupt and ear-splitting halt, and I promptly
demanded the reason for his sudden ascen-
sion of the social ladder. “Well, it’s this
way,” lie began. “Last week I hires four
blokes to do me cartin’ in. The first turns
up in a motor-bike, and strike me rJak if
the other three didn’t line up in motor-cars.
An’ I’m darned if one of ’em wasn’t de-
pendin’ on what he’d get from me not only
to keep up the time-payments, but for the
juice to take him to his next job. So I
reckoned it was time for me to get a blanky
car, too.”
* * * *
“Runa”: He is certainly a wise Judge who
investigates carefully pleas for mercy. In an
oyster-stealing case in Maoriland the pur-
loiner asked for lenient treatment on the
ground that the oysters had been taken “for
a sick lady.” The Court appeared to be
somewhat impressed with the excuse until
the prosecution added that the quantity
confiscated was about half a hundredweight.
Then his Honor, possibly influenced by the
consideration that after consuming that
amount an invalid would be unlikely to take
any further interest in earthly provender,
handed out a stiff fine.
* * * *
“R. Mort” : According to that section of
the “Commonwealth Year Book” which deals
with felo de sc. shooting continues to be the
most fashionable method of suicide in this
country, with poison a close second; 177 and
173 persons made their exits through these
two doors during 1926. The messy razor was
used in 135 instances. As against 583 men,
128 women found life unlivable. The com
monest age for suicide seems to be from 35
to 45, but at different ends of the list were
two youngsters under 15 and 13 octo-
genarians.
* * * *
“A.H.S.”: What about this for nerve? A
slightly sozzled sport signalled a cable-tram
in a Melbourne street, produced a bottle
of beer from liis liip-pocket, and inserted it
in the wiring on the front of the dummy.
After deftly knocking the top off he waved the
tram on again with a hiccoughed benediction.
The only witness of the incident who didn t
seem a bit amused was the gripman.
AS SAL PUT IT.
[FOR THE BULLEIN.]
Joe Briggs ’as got a lot o’ cows an’ they
are milkin’ well;
’E’s got four figures in the bank, or so I’ve
’eard ’em tell;
But ’e’s so slow —’e sits an’ yarns fer
hours an’ bores me. Still,
If I can’t make ’im toe the mark I’ve alius
got young Bill.
’E ain’t got cows or crops or cash, but you
should see ’is eyes,
An’ 'ow ’is sox all match ’is ’ats, an’ all is
lovely ties.
’E danced six times las’ night with me, an’
took me ’ome as well,
While Joe stayed yarnin’ with the coves
outside o’ the ’otel.
Joe Briggs ’as got ’is ’ead on right an’ saves
a bit o’ cash,
While young Bill thinks o’ notliink else but
’ow ter cut a dash.
An’ both o’ them are shook on me. I likes
Joe Briggs—but still.
Wot would yer do in sicli a ’ole? Yer see
I’m shook on Bill.
VICTORIA.
P. T. FINDLAY.
SOMEWHERE IN FLANDERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The lurid glow of Christmas-time behind me.
In front the bush that shadeless stock-
routes bridge,
A yellow dust-storm rises to remind me
Somehow of far-off days at Vimy Ridge.
My parched frame quivers to a secret olden.
A bank near Ypres where the cornflowers
peep ;
And those twelve bottles with their stoppers
golden
Which in that hiding-place I buried deep.
They're mine. If I had wings I’d soon flj
over
To where I hid that dozen o’ wine secure
I’ll lay no other could that cache discover.
Old wine, and now ten years the m° re
mature.
O’er Queensland’s beer I’ve often raved ami
ranted, . .
While down my neck pint after P llll
meanders; ,
While ten years waiting me and saleb
planted
Are those twelve quarts (alas!) som '
where in Flanders.”
QUEENSLAND.
D. B. O’CONNOR.


'0
;
~4
22
n
v v' ’
N >V'y •
V*.
AX\i.
il
5S
KK
rise;
• ■/• V. "
.. * ■ -. S •*
:> siL v .' \ : *
/
<5
(
; • r
)%
K
H,
I
Exactly
Right
M anufactured in your own
Country from the finest
Selected Virginia Leaf-
IVORY-TIPS
CORK.-TIPS
PLAIN


iima
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD., GEELONG.
CONSTRUCTED FOR —The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Ltd.
ARCHITECT—I. G. Anderson, Esq.
Reinforced throughout on B.R.C. System.
Concrete Reinforcements
B. R. C Fabric is made from steel in its strongest form for
structural purposes —fifty per cent, stronger than ordinary rolled
steel. The wires are accurately and permanently fixed before-
hand, and the fabric arrives on the job ready for simple laying.
Ease and accuracy of construction are secured with this regular
high-quality material, insuring strength and safety. Column and
beams, reinforced with B.R.C. Hoops and Stirrups, made by
machine and delivered ready for fixing, have the same high
degree of correct workmanship. Buildings with B.R.C. Rein-
forcements are the strongest of all reinforced concrete constructions.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty., Ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 8861. Works: Sunshine, Victoria.
SKEi
as
ouqoj
r.
e
i
Sole Distributing Agents:
VICTORIA Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES . . J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair (Brisbane), Ltd.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Company (Aust.), Ltd., Hobart
NEW ZEALAND A. C. Gillies & Laird, Wellington.
ouqoj
fds


THE NEW SUNDAY AT HOME.
(Grandma Listens-in to the Service.)


I*
-wtasssaeaass
.
- —.
*»>*>
■
mm
mm
V
mm
N
Bffi
t«£
'
w
i
Vy
>
P
IP
1
&
* ■
n
.
*
x
l m.
•■: : :
1
,
Hi
• »
’■ v? ~
■
-
.
?T
-,,
■
i ;
■
-
-
.
mmm
X ■;
mm
■ ■
r^JrosBPIflJI!
fcSjtGGITT
ll.'/fepARRAM
YOUR AUTUMN LAMBING!
Why not make it 90 per cent, this year?
You cannot expect your breeding ewes, due to lamb in the
autumn, to grow heavy fleeces of sound wool, drop a high percent-
age of strong lambs and secrete sufficient milk to rear them properiy
unless they receive the raw materials concerned in this work.
EWES ON GRASS which is turning dry or mature DO NO!
receive sufficient protein and mineral matter to effect the best P ro "
duction of wool and lambs. Further, the astringent character of
such grass is adverse to successful lambing.
MEGGITT’S LINSEED SHEEP NUTS
supply the exact type of nourishment lacking in dry or mature gross, and they also counteract
it. your breeding ewe , . sma „, economical rat,on, not more than 2oz. daily, during the
eight weeks prior to lambing, you will ensure a high marking percentage and at leas, an extra ha p
°' W< To le'e'dToOo'eweTfo/eSrweeks prior to lambing wonld cos, approx. £5O, including freight.
Your extra retn,ns in wool and lambs, due to this feeding, would be at leas. £l5O, show.ng yon a
" el P We fi hat 2 o°„° recorti "hundreds of cases where this scale of profit has been T’S°Tin|lSs
breeding ewes, and we strongly recommend you to allow your breeding flock MEGGITT S LlNbbtU
SHEEP NUTS this coming autumn. Order Now.
FEEDING BEFORE LAMBING IS 100 PER CENT. MORE
EFFECTIVE THAN FEEDING AFTER LAMBING.
f
cSPt&tfjftt t JZimiied
HEAD OFFICE, 16 KING ST., SYDNEY
. Works Parramatta, NSVD • Melbourne Victoria • Port Adelaides A
«=
I
9ie boy on the bag \
Quaniniocj quality "
°yAe £>oy on the l>aq
yuar&ntees quality
BRANCHES AND AGENTS:—
Victoria. . Meggitt, Ltd., Box 4510 G.P.O., Spencer Street,
Melbourne.
S. Aus.. . . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., tfox 387 G.P.O., Adelaide
W. Aus.. . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth, Distributors.
Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Perth, Sub-distributors.
Q’land. . . Denhams, Ltd., Brisbane.
Denham Bros., Ltd., Rockhampton.
Cummins & Campbell, Ltd., Townsville and Cairns.


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Astounding
Value:
Dainty Gilt
Lacquered
Eight-Day
Clock, 32/6.
A most attractive little clock
with a dependable, accurate
eight-day lever movement. It
stands four inches high, has a
bold, clear dial, and carries
a ten years’ guarantee. It
is sold in a neat leatherette
travelling case.
m
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 & 25 Hunter Street.
— v
WuuUot
Spring Street, Melbourne
(opp. Parliament House).
In an exceptionally charming and quiet loca-
tion, yet only a few minutes from shops,
offices, warehouses, theatres, stations and
wharves. Beautifully furnished and with
every modern convenience. Hot and cold
water and telephones in all bedrooms.
Minimum Tariff from 22/6 (inclusive).
Room and Breakfast from 157-
Telegrams & Cables: “Telwinsor,” Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 9260.
Manager: D. G. Baker.
&
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some February birthdays:—
Colonel Brinsmead (Aviation), 45, and Cecil
Andrews (W.A. Director of Education), 58, on 2nd ;
Oeo. Swinburne (Vic.), 67, on 3rd; L. E. Bennett,
M.A., B.D. (Master of Wesley Coll., Syd.), 50, on
sth; Dr. A. W. Walkom (Gen. Sec. of Australasian
Science Ass’n), 39, on Bth ; Robert Garran (Federal
Solicitor-Gen.), 61, on 10th; J. M. Chanter (formerly
M.H.R.), 83, and F. W. Bamford (formerly M.H.R.),
79, on 11th; E. H. Wittenoom (sometime Agent-
Gen. for W.A.), 74, Albert J. Gould (late Pres, of
Federal Senate), 81, Prof. Carslaw (Syd.), 58, Prof.
Ewart (Melb.), 56, and Major-Gen. Rosenthal, 53, on
12th; Archbishop Kelly, 78, and Frederick Chapman,
F.G.S. (Vic. National Museum), 64, on 13th; Edward
Lucas (ex-Agent-Gen. for S.A.), 71, and ,T. L. Price
(S.A.’s present Agent-Gen.), 46, on 14th; Roberb
Burns (ed. Adel. Register), 69, on 15th; “Banjo”
Paterson, 64, Bishop Shiel (Rockhampton), 55, and
Dr. L. Keith Ward (S.A. Govt. Geologist), 49, on
17th; Justice Macrossan (Q.), 47, on 20th; H. I.
JEAN BOROTRA, who is businessman and
diplomat us will as tennis player.
Cohen, K.C. (Vic.), 56, and Judge Drake-Brockman
44, on 21st; Justice Starke r ( High Court), 57, on
22nd; Octavius C. Beale, 78, and Norman Lindsay,
49, on 23rd; W. A. Selle (Registrar of Syd. Uni.),
45, and H. W. Apperl.v (A.M.P. See.), 67, on 24th;
J. A. Browne, K.C., M.L.C. (N.S.W.), 52, on 25th;
S.A. former Premier Barwell, 51, and C. R. Chapman
(Under-Sec. N.S.W. Treasury), 53, on 26th; and
medico-Knight James Barrett (Melb.), 66, on 27th.
Among Sydney taxi-drivers (an assorted
lot) there is at least one A.I.F. colonel —
Granville, D. 5.0., who led the Ist Light
Horse. Granville found a post-war venture
in farming a failure, gave it best and moved
to Sydney for his present job.
The pledge-signing crusade among drunks
who face Central Police Court, Sydney, has
celebrated its 15th anniversary. Rev. It. B.
S. Hammond, who runs Grit in the interests
of Cold Tea, started the campaign. In the 15
years 26,194 out of the 124,437 presented for
“drunk” without trimmings signed the docu-
ment that is supposed to quench or quell
their thirsts; the rest have been satisfied to
pay their five bobs. Probably the pledging
effects a few real redemptions; but it is
known by many as merely a cheap means of
getting away from the charge without pay-
ment. The magistrate gives the offender the
choice —sign the pledge or pay a fine.
After a voyage that he described as
“uneventful,” and which included a Pacific
hurricane, a West Indian cyclone and
sundry other mild disturbances, Alexander
MacCormick, knight and surgeon, sailed his
26-ton net yacht Ada into the Harbor on
Sqnday, completing the 14,000 miles trip
home from Falmouth in 137 days. Mac-
Cormick, an Argyleshire Scot, landed in
Australia nearly half a century ago, and
owns up to 71 years. He learnt most of
what he knows about sailing with the Royal
Sydney Yacht Squadron, of which he was
commodore for a time. Apart from giving
his professional skill free .on thousands of
occasions, MacCormick has handed over
gratis a private hospital and £25,000 to help
it along.
One of the few parsons who can boast
that the “house-full” sign was almost a
fixture outside liis tabernacle is William
George Taylor, who celebrated his 83rd
birthday last month. Cricketer Johnny
Taylor is a son. The elder Taylor reached
Australia when he was 26, and shepherded
in Queensland for a time. He established
the Central Methodist Mission, and in York-
street. Sydney, built the Centenary Hall,
outside wdiicli overflow services had fre-
quently to be held on Sunday nights. Taylor
built up to this after taking- charge of a
small church which had an average congre-
gation of 18.
Just to prove that Queensland is a terribly
trying dime to live in, George Holt sailed
past his century at Ipswich on .Tan. 22. He
landed in the northern State from Dorset-
shire 79 years back, and after piloting river
boats for about a decade settled ashore. He
has been piloting farm horses and crops since
then.
C. E. Lord, who did secretarial work for
the Science Congress in Hobart, is one of
Australia’s brightest naturalists. A native
of the Speck, he founded the Field Natural-
ists’ Club there in 1904, and 1917 saw him
a member of the Council of the Royal
Society of Tasmania. He is now secretary
of that society and also director of the local
Museum. He owns up to 39 years.
Daniel McAlpine, of Woodlands, Leitch-
ville (Vic.), Australia’s notable plant path-
ologist, was 79 on Jan 21, He was for 20
years vegetable pathologist to the Vic.
Department of Agriculture, and in 1910 was
appoihted jointly by the Federal and State
Governments to investigate the nature and
control of bitter-pit in apples.
Will Longstaff, whose picture “Midnight
at the Menin Gate” has been purchased by
distiller Buchanan, now Lord Woolavington,
for presentation to the Commonwealth, did
not pursue art very seriously until after
the Big Scrap, in which lie served with the
A.I.F. It was probably liis cousin John’s
success that prompted him, in the late
’thirties, to develop his talents. After re-
turning to Australia he decided to descend,
upon London. He reached that city with
only a couple of shillings; but the sum paid
for this picture—deserving success in a world
in which artists seem to have lost their
imagination—seems to have landed him on
his feet. The canvas has made an inter-
national sensation ; Longstaff declined a big
offer from France, because he wanted to sell
it within the Empire.
Passed over in Melbourne, Adam Wilkie,
who, with his brother, built the railway from
Southern Cross to Coolgardie. When the
Maori wars ended Wilkie was probably the
youngest veteran. He was 15 when he first
shouldered a musket in the domestic argu-
ment with Hen are.
R. B. P. Barbour, 8.A., just appointed
warden at Adelaide Presbyterian University’
College, has had a brilliant run for a colt.
The youngest son of G. P. Barbour, head-
master of Toowoomba (Q.) Grammar, he
won the Rhodes Scholarship in 1921 and took
honors in classics at Oxford, where he was
good enough to get blues for tennis and
hockey, besides playing capital cricket (he
had previously represented Queensland in
tennis and cricket), His dad, who repre-
sented N.S.W. in three sports, is still going
strong in Toowoomba qt 62.
If the Bruce-Pages intend to fill the
vacancy on the Migration Commission by
appointing a Victorian, William Mclver,
Director of Settlement, will probably make a
bid for the post. He is a top-notch account-
ant, with enough letters after his name to
flatter a brigadier-general, and he is, as well,
a good administrator and organiser. For
directing settlement he draws £1750 per year.
Died recently in Auckland, Arthur W. O.
Davies, four times Maoriland chess cham-
pion. When only 20 he defeated ex-world
champion Dr. Lasker, and W. S. Viner
and Boris Kositeh were, other great players
who had to . admit his superiority in the
boisterous game.
“Phil P.”: Bobby Ivnopwood, the rev.
gentleman whose queerly-spelt diary has
been mentioned by recent BuiXETiN-eers, was
a convivial soul in a roystering age. Born
in Suffolk, lie suc-
ceeded to estates
worth £90,000, but
dropped into an ex-,
pensive school led
by the Prince of
Wales —afterwards
Geo. IV. —in which
he was outmatched
both in games of skill
and chance. The
Heir Apparent, by
way of compensa-
tion for having
nearly ruined him,
handed him a naval
chaplaincy. After
several years’ ser-
vice afloat Robert
was appointed to the
civil staff of Lieut.-
Colonel David Col-
lins, and left in
1803 with the Port
Phillip “first
Settlement there
was not persevered
with, and Collins
turned his energies
to the Derwent,
where Ivnopwood
gave the Speck’s
first sermon.
Colonel
BOURCHIER,
Light-Horseman
and Vic. politician.
S. Aus. Freemasonry lias lost its most out-
standing figure through the passing of
.Tames R. Robertson, Assistant Grand Sec.
He was an exceptionally modest Scot, who
nine years ago gave up a mastership at
Prince Alfred College to devote his time to
the welfare of the Masons. “Robbie,” who
was much beloved by the “brethren” and the
“old boys,” was only 60.
After representing Mitchell in the Banana
land Parliament for 23 years. Jack Payne,
one of the old Labor hands, has passed on
at 68. Born near Goulburn (N.S.W.), he
pushed north into Central-West Queensland
in the early ’eighties, and tried footrunning,
blacksmithing and sundry other occupations
before going to the Assembly to represent
28,000 square miles of territory. Not long
after he opened his smithy in Longreach
another smith set up his bellows in the town,
and, when Payne suggested tile place wasn't
big enough to hold them both, innocently
agreed to let a sprint decide who would
stay. Payne won by rods, and the other
chap shouldered his anvil.
If it hadn’t been for the pretty reliable
tipping of N.S.W. meteorologist Mares, the
French steamer Dupleix, which is being
withdrawn from the Islands run, might have
been taken off a little more forcibly a while
back. According to those on board, a cyclone
forecast he wirelessed saved the aged craft
from dinting the ocean bottom near Noumea.
Mares, who lands a winner more often than
the average racecourse tipster, sticks rigidly
to form; when his “mild and cloudy with
scattered showers” turns out a roaster it
merely means that the elements have been
doing some inconsistent running.
Edgar H. Waite, head of the Adelaide
museum, who \vent out to a recurrence of
malaria while attending the Science Congress
in Hobart, was one of the world’s leading
herpetologists. Something of an artist as
Well, he designed the pictures for the excel-
lent book he wrote about Australian snakes.
He was zoologist at Sydney museum and
curator at Christchurch (M.L.) before
settling in Adelaide about 14 years back.
Alfred Milson, who died the day before
the boats unfurled for their annual Anniver-
sary sailing on the Harbor, inherited his
enthusiasm for yachting. His father, James
Milson, was one of the founders of the
Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron 65 years ago,
and his father in 1836 founded the Harbor’s
first boating club. Alfred won many yacht-
ing events himself; lie retired from active
business early to devote himself to the sport
and to the public affairs connected with it.
The Royal Naval House for Seamen, the
Naval Brigade, the Shipwreck Relief Society
and ambulance services were among the
affairs he assisted. Seventy-two at the end,
he died in the R.S.Y.S. rooms whilst, as
chairman, assisting in the final arrangements
for the regatta.
Major-General Yic. Selllieim, of many
distinctions and decorations, who died at
Norfolk Island the other day after less than
a year as Administrator there, spent his
early life in Queensland, where his dad was
Warden at Charters Towers and Under-
secretary for Mines. From Brisbane Gram-
mar School Vic went into the State Per-
manent forces by way of the militia, and was
in South Africa with the first Queensland
M. I. He was attached to Methuen’s staff,
and did some notable work at the forcing of
the Modder River. Joining the Common-
wealth Permanent staff, he went to the later
disturbance as A.A.G. and Q.M.G. under
Bridges, and eventually became Commandant
of A.I.F. headquarters in London. When
that job petered out he commanded in Vic-
toria, and was Adjutant-General of the Com-
monwealth for a while before going to Nor-
folk Island to administer that alleged Pacific
paradise. The burly, genial chap was 62
at his last parade.
Baron Somers, who recently handed over
a cheque to buy a feed for 200 unemployed,
is not the first Governor of Victoria to
bestow gifts on the workless. Earl Ilope-
toun, when about to leave, made “Chummy”
Fleming, then leader of the out-of-works, a
present of the champagne in his cellar. Flem-
ing realised on the fizz and distributed the
coin among his followers. Melbourne’s Very
, Best were dreadfully shocked.
Australia is to receive another visit from
William McGaul, who regards its climate as
a tonic for old age. McGaul is a Welsh
quarry-master who at 70 decided to have a
look at this country, and has since been a
regular visitor. He is now 88, and is at pre-
sent on his seventh trip southward.
The failure before the Anglo-German Arbi-
tral Tribunal of the N.S.W. Permanent
Trustee Co.’s claim against the heirs of
Johann Machl recalls that black-bearded
giant, who was about Australia just before
the war. Machl was reputed to be a German
millionaire who wished to bring his wealth
to this country. Spending money very liber-
ally, he rushed about inspecting offerings,
from timber concessions on the N.S.W.
North Coast to property about Sydney. He
vanished just before the war, and died bank-
rupt in Germany in 1916. Apparently he
had word in advance that the scrap was
coming.
No English officer achieved more popu-
larity with the Diggers than Brigadier-
General C. L. (“Old Les”) Smith, V.C., etc.,
who has gone west in Europe. He saw ser-
vice in South Africa, won his V.C. in a minor
campaign in Somaliland, and was attached
to the Gyppo service when the Big Fuss
started. When the Camel Corps for Sinai
and Palestine was raised he was placed in
charge of the brigade, which included a
couple of Australian regiments. The crowd
did good service at Rafa, the closing scrap
of the Sinai campaign, and came into its
own in the battles before Gaza, where it got
a hard dusting. Later, the camel being found
less efficient than the Australian “waler,” the
brigade was disbanded.
Having amassed more than 2000 first and
champion prizes for roses, Benvenuto V.
Rossi has retired from business in Vic. to
put in the rest of liis days cultivating new
varieties. Hundreds of new roses are im-
ported every season from Europe and
America, but about 95 per cent, of them fade
off the horticultural map within a year.
Rossi, who intends to breed ’em specially
A. J. KILGOUR, for 25 years headmaster
of Fort-street, Sydney, the pioneer State
school of Australia.
for Australian climates, is a lithographer by
trade. A bit over 30 years ago he left Italy
for Egypt to help produce an edition de luxe
of the Koran. The job took three years, and
when it was through he headed south and
has been a good Australian ever since.
THE MENIN-ROAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Will Longstaff’s picture, ‘Midnight at Menin
Gate,’ has been purchased for presentation to the
Commonwealth Government.”
I can't forget the Menin road, 'tis ever com-
ing back to me;
I see in dreams the snow and slush, the shell-
wrecked town again I see.
The men who died in battle there parade
again, a grim array,
And file out by the Menin gate from evenfall
to break of day.
Black, black as Hell is Menin-road one
moment; then the fierce shells flare,
And cursing, stumbling in the murk, I dive
again for shelter there.
That cemetery shelled and torn I pass once
more upon my way ;
I see the white stone “Jesus Christ” that
stood erect where all things lay.
The Menin-road in summer-time when after
sunset twilight fell,
And guns might cease! How still it seemed
when war was silent for a spell!
And even there the roses bloomed among
the ruins glowing gay,
And one might hear the song of birds and
soldiers singing blithe as they.
The Menin-road is clear again. From motor-
cars the tourists scan
The Flanders fields so trim and green out
yonder where the old line ran.
But I must see the seething mud, the night
sky wild with flash and flare,
The toiling men, the plodding beasts, that
strove and strained and perished there.
QUEENSLAND.
BEN GUN.


METROVICK.
HIGH TORQUE
HIGH EFFICIENCY
ds
SQUIRREL CAGE
INDUCTION MOTORS
jSM
1 •
es
The leading features of our C.K.B. Motors
may be briefly summarised as follows:
1. Low initial cost.
2. Robustness.
3. High starting torque.
4. High efficiency.
5. Quick starting.
6. Lower starting current.
7. Reduced slip.
ers
1C
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.).
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
USE
Jjfau&ei&i'
Ioge"
BRAKE LINING
REPRESENTATIVE:—
JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melb.
BRITISH.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Paterson, Laing and Bruce, Ltd., soft-
goods warehousemen of London, Sydney -and
Melbourne:—
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. (6 p.e.) Ordinary. serves, serves.
July, £ £ £ £ £
1916.. 44,733 21,000 6 p.c. = 15,000 8,733 9,244
1917.. 45,714 21,000 6 „ „ 15,000 9,714 18,958
1918.. 69,804 21,000 84 „ ~ 21,250 27,554 46,512
1919.. 70,499 21,000 10 „ ~25,000 24,499 71,011
1920.. 94,105 29,750 124,, „ 31,250 33,105 104,116
Loss.
1921.. 13,746 30,000 74 „ „ 18,750 41,620
Profits.
1922.. 51,961 30,000 74 „ „ 18,750 3,211 44,831
1923.. 84,545 30,000 10* „ „ 25,000 29,545 74,376
1924.. 67,014 33,000 10 „ „ 25,000 9,014 83,390
1925.. 61,377 36,000 74 „ „ 18,750 0,627 90,017
1926.. 58,321 36,000 74 „ ~ 18,750 3,571 93,588
1927.. 61,756 36,000 10 „ ~ 25,000 756 94,344
The back slide in profits, which has been
a reflex of conditions generally in the whole-
sale softgoods trade, was arrested last year.
Though net earnings improved only £3435
the board saw sufficient promise in the
outlook to lift the ord. div. from 7J p.c. to
10 p.c. after satisfying the prefs., and that
called for all but £756 of the declared pro-
fits. These were equal to only 6.5 p.c. on
shareholders’ funds, after deducting goodwill
(£161,192), and to pay divs. at last year’s
rates they will have to earn 6.4 p.c. What
makes the 6.5 p.c. look even less attractive
is the fact that funds have the assistance of
£230,000 41 p.c. debentures. The low-earn-
ing power is evidence of the management’s
difficulty in maintaining turnover in the face
of the growing independence of the big
retailer, who now does his own importing,
and of the growth of Australian textile
factories and the specialty house, which
concentrates on one or two lines only. Last
year’s divs. called for £61,000, and only
twice in the last decade have net earnings
been less than that. But conditions in the
trade have changed fundamentally, which
means that the past cannot be accepted as
a guide to probable future performances.
Still, indications are that under normal con-
ditions the lowest level of earnings has been
passed, and the recent deaths and casualties
amongst Flinders-lane and York-street
houses should help to make the path of the
survivors perhaps a little less difficult.
At any rate the management of P., L. and
B. has been quick to measure up the
situation and stocks, the most vulnerable of
the assets, appear to have been written into
the sheet with care. Evidence on that
point is to be had in the comparative small-
ness of the loss in the 1921 slump, and the
fact that, despite changing fashions and
falling prices, visible reserves have not been
dipped into since to adjust stocky values.
These increased £70,649, reaching £748,952,
last year, but they were still £210.761 below
the 1921 figure, and £lOO,OOO of B. pref.
capital was got in meantime. That and
other movements are seen in this compari-
son of balance-sheet figures—
-1921. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Ordinary . . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Preference .. 500,000 600;000 600,000 600,000
Debentures . . 233,642 233,642 233,642 233,642
Liabilities . . 682,664 469,170 487,675 468,968
Freeholds, etc. 341,901 391,776 383,285 377,934
: stock. . . . 959,713 754,933 678,303 748,952
Book debts .. 305,085 397,923 509,457’ 418,023
Investments and
cash . . 125,542 125,571 121,233 135,670
Book debts (£418,023), which had grown to
an outsize in 1926, were reduced £91,434
and £18,707 was lopped off the trade debt
(£468,968). Apart from debentures the more
or less liquid surplus (£833,677), including
stocks, improved £12,359. And there is a
nice inner reserve in the London, Melbourne
and Sydney freeholds, which were valued at
approximately £600,000 three years ago;
their book value was then £Bl4O less than
the figure (£377,934) at which they appeared
in the sheet at last balance.
The public is interested only in the 6 p.c.
cum. prefs., of which there are 350,000 A’s
and 250,000 B’s (the latter arc free of
income-tax up to 6s. in the £), and they
rank for dividend and return of capital in
the order stated. The net tangible backing
amounts to £2 13s. lid. and £2 7s. 9d. for
the A and B shares respectively. They are
tightly held. The ords. represent the
original issue to the old firm of P., L. and
B. in 1897.
The New Zealand Loan and Mercan-
tile Agency Co., Ltd., which is in the
pastoral-finance and agency business in Aus-
tralia and Maoriland: —
Dividends.
5 p.c. Written
Profit. Prets. Ordinary. Oif. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1918. .184,177 49,460 8 p.c. =66,745 30,000 674,106
1919. .163,228 49,730 8 „ ~ 75,858 10,000 701,746
1920. .185,338 50,000 6£ „ ~ 65,000 48,593 723,491
Loss.
1921.. 16,186 50,000 4 „ ~ 40,000 617,305
1922.. 28,857 50,000 2 ~,,20,000 518,448
Profit.
1923.. 92,583 50,000 4 „ ;, 40,000 521,031
1924. .126,725 50,000 6 „ ~ 60,000 10,000 527,756
1925. .141,890 50,000 7‘„ ~ 70,000 10,000 539,640
1926. .135,640 50,000 7 „ ~70,000 10,000 545,286
, —P refs.— v Oi'ds.
p.c. p.c. p.c.
1927. .148,992 5 6* 7$ = 136,681 10,000 547,597
Half-way through the term the co. got in
a half-million of 64 p.c. second cum. prefs.,
which, with the existing round million of
5 p.c. prefs. and a like amount of ords., made
the total capital stock £2,500,000. In
addition there is two millions of 4 p.c.
debenture stock, including £300,900' held
by the co., and visible reserves stand in the
books at £547,597. But despite its lashins
of cheap money the co. has never displayed
anything attractive in the way of profits.
Last year’s results showed improvement,
although, after allowing for pref. require-
ments and £lO,OOO struck off premises, the
balance of the year’s net earnings was only
7.7 p.c. on the ordinary capital compared
with 7.5 p.c. in the previous year, and the
average for the last five years was 6.8 p.c.
However, the careful management saw suffi-
cient promise in the outlook to lift the ord.
div. half a point, making it 74 p.c.
In its early days the co. was a big-run
owner in Australia and Maoriland, but as it
got on its financial legs again after the
cyclone of the ’nineties these were unloaded,
and it is now no longer interested as a
station-owner. Thus it misses some of the
plums gathered by growers in the fat years,
but under ordinary circumstances it should
not suffer to the same extent in bad times,
although the losses in 1921 and 1922, when
the co.’s Maoriland securities were heavily
written down, are reminders of what can
happen in the pastoral finance business.
Incidentally, some of that writing down
was covered by inner reserves, which were
again dipped into last year for £22,540 to
wipe out the cost (44 p.c.) of the new
pref. issue.
Here is a comparison of balance-sheet
items:—
1922. 1926. 1927.
Liabilities other than
debentures. . . . £690,688 £1,101,060 £1,054,138
Advances .. .. 3,000,361 3,762,216 4,055,204
Property .. .. 4,617 859 859
Premises .. .. 280,290 380,369 369,679
Merchandise.. .. 144,255 280,739 225,507
Shares in other cos. 36,873 192,012 193,882
Cash and public secu-
rities .. .. 1,487,740 790,152 1,038,286
The financial position is very solid; cash
and public securities alone were almost
sufficient to meet the floating debt, most of
which is represented by current accounts
(£959,035, up £183,276), and on the other
side of the sheet there is £973,831, or
£37,183 more than in the previous year, out
under the same heading, which is included
with advances in the table. The new pref.
money was used partly to finance clients,
but a substantial portion of it was held in
cash and marketable securities (£1,038.286,
up £248,134). The debenture debt is fixed,
and the co. is well positioned to command
credit and to nurse clients in lean years.
The stock is listed on Australasian ’changes,
but business is mostly confined to Maoriland,
where only Dalgety’s handle a bigger pro-
portion of the clip. The 5 p.c. prefs. are
covered by £304 15s. 2d. p.c. in net tangibles,
and the year’s net earnings were nearly
three times their annual requirements. The
market prices them at about £80; at which
figure the return is 6.3 p.c. After that
the seconds are covered by £409 10s. p.c. in
net tangibles. The same class of cover for
the ords. amounted to £154 11s. lid. p.c.,
and they are priced at £96; the return at
that figure is 7.8 p.c. on a 74 p.c. div.
basis.
* * * *
Australian General Insurance Co.,
Ltd. (Sydney), from the time it began to
transact business direct with the public:—
To Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1926.. 10,577 10 p.c. = 5000 5577 26,641
1927.. 10,580 10 „ „ 5000 5580 32,221
This co., which is an offshoot of the Mer-
cantile Mutual, was registered in 1913, but
until .Tune 30, 1926,. operations were con-
fined to reinsurance. Then it was decided
to transact business direct with the public
and good progress has been made since.
In each of the last two years 21.1 p.c. on
capital has been netted, which makes the
10 p.c. to shareholders a very comfortable
matter indeed. Net premium income, helped
by the N. S. Wales Workers' Compensation
law, bounded up £32,311 in 1926, and in-
creased a further £19,184 last year, reaching
£115.734. But owing to heavy fire losses
the. underwriting experience was less favor-
able than usual. The loss ratio mounted to
59.8 p.c., compared with 57.5 p.c. in 1926,
and the underwriting surplus (£5028)
dropped to 4.3 p.c. as against 6.1 p.c. in the
previous term. Here are the details: —
Loss Exes.
Net Ratio, Ratio,
Premiums. Claims. Exes. p.c. p.c.
1926. . £96,550 £55,475 £35,176 57.5 36.4
1927.. 115,734 69,236 41,470 59.8 35.8
That a bigger revenue was gathered on a
slightly reduced expense rate is distinctly to
the credit of the management. The co.
writes policies in N. S. Wales, Vic. and S.
xlus., and its connection with the Mercan-
tile Mutual should count for a good deal in
the fight for business. Provided costs can
be kept in hand there is a lot of brightness
in the co.’s outlook. Interest and rents
(£5552), which brought in an extra £S73
last year, were £552 in excess of the div.
requirements. But reserves (£32,221 at
Dec. 31) were still £14,072 short of the
40 p.c. usually aimed at. Nevertheless
policy-holders arc well protected:—
1926. 1927.
Paid Capital .. .. £50,000 £50,000
Liabilities 20,777 15,983
Freeholds . . .. .. 2,540 2,540
Mortgages . . . . .. 23,910 25,435
Debentures . . .. .. 6,000 6,000
Public securities . . . . 36,666 36,598
Book debts 5,728 5,052
Cash, etc 29,073 29,079
And another Is., making 6s. paid, has been
called on each of the 200,060 £1 shares since
the accounts closed. That will bring in an
extra £lO.OOO, making paid capital £60,000,
and add £lOOO p.a. to a 10 p.c. div., which
will then call for only £44S more than last
year’s interest and rent.
The market looks at the management and
the growth in premium income and pays
Bs. 9d. for the scrip. After allowing for
the call the return at that figure is a shade
over 6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis; and the
backing, including the reserve for unex-
pired risks, will amount to 9s. 3d. in net
tangibles.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Associated Blue Metal
Quarries, Ltd., which paid £15,800 in 10
p.c. profs, and £54,055 in ordinaries for the
assets and business of the N.S.W. Blue
Metal Co., Ltd., and spent £3862 on flota-
tion :
Nomi-
r Dividends v Toße-nalße
Nov., Profits. Pref. Old. Total, serves, servos.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 14,777 10 p.c. 10 p.e. 10,299 4,478 615
1923.. 16,349 10 „ 10 „ 11,824 4,525 5,140
1924.. 18,449.10 „ 10 „ 15,000 3,449 8,589
1925.. 20,815 10 ~ 10 „ 18,193 2,622 11,211
1926.. 25,808 10 „ 10 „ 19.462 6,346 17,557
1927.. 34,178 10 „ 10 „ 22,917 11,261 28,818
Thus far profits have stepped along briskly,
keeping nicely in advance of the growth
in capital, which has moved up by annual
steps from £112,711 in 1922 to £250,000 last
year. And most of the new money has
been employed in developing the quarries,
the book value of which has increased from
£124,893 to £271,989 over the same period.
Also a good price and a strong demand for
metal have enabled the new capital to win
very satisfactory returns. After allowing
for pref. requirements, which call for £6440
p.a., the balance of the year’s net profit was
16.8 p.c. on average ordinary capital com-
pared with 14.8, 12.2 and 14 p.c. back to
1924. And then a good deal of the £50,000
of capital that came in during the year was
used in equipping a new quarry at Bass
Point, which is not expected to commence
earning for another three months. The co.
has three other quarries—Pospect, Minna-
murra and Bombo —and the lot and a trifle
of fittings represent over 97 p.c. of share-
holders’ funds; a great deal, therefore,
depends on the value placed upon fixed assets,
and in the case of a quarry that is largely
a matter of guesswork. The depreciation
reserve (£21,250) —£6500 was added to it
during the year—is included with the so-called
reserves, and therefore with profits, in the
table. However, the concrete age appears to
have little more than started in earnest,
plant is reported to be in good order, the
quality of the basalt is right and the supply
“inexhaustible.” Future prospects will
largely depend upon prices and the continu-
ance of demand, which is partly wrapped
up with Government loan expenditure ; also
competition is growing stronger and can be
expected to continue to do so.
Balance-sheet movements compare thus: —
1923. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Owing on Minna-
murra .. ..£16,275 £6,975 £2,325
Overdraft .. .. 1,614 27,104 20,662 £8,916
Other creditors .. 6,518 16,114 15,783 18,416
Fixed assets .. 131,840 208,129 217,371 272,447
Stocks . . . . 3,651 5,179 3,099 3,442
Book debts .. 25,735 44,005 48,983 48,070
Cash and sundries 909 633 2,375 2,738
The overdraft (£8916) was reduced £11,746,
and the balance owing (£2325) on Minna-
murra was paid off. Tliat and £2633 added
to the trade debt (£18,416). left the more or
less liquid surplus (£26,918) stronger by
£11,231.
The prefs., which are 10 p.c. cumulative,
also carry the right to participate in new
issues. The year’s profit was over five times
their annual requirements, and the net. asset
backing £4 6s. 6d., almost wholly in quarries
and their equipment. After that the net
cover for the ords. was 235. Id. The market
values both prefs. and ords. at 255. each;
the return, after allowing for the div. (Is.),
being Si p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
* * * *
The County of Bourkf. Permanent
Buieding and Investment Society (Mel-
bourne) :
Busi- Net Pro-
ness tit on To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Sales. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1918.. 15,652 209 10 p.c. = 15,000 861 50,941
1919.. 15,339 10 ,; „ 15,000 339 51,280
1920.. 16,271 —lO „ ~15,000 1271 52,551
1921.. 16,059 10 „ ~ 15,000 1059 53,610
1922.. 16,041 10 „ „ 15,000 1041 54,651
Premiums on new shares .. 6197 60,848
1923.. 17,059 10 p.c.= 15,250 1809 62,657
Premiums on new shares .. 65 62,722
1924.. 18,499 —lO p.c.= 17,500 999 63,721
1925.. 19,286 10 „ „ 17,500 1786 65,507
1926.. 20,208 10 „ „ 17,500 2708 08,215
1927.. 21,000 . 10 „ „ 17,500 3500 71,715
The co. is a steady 10 per center, that rate
having been paid regularly since 1905 ; but
beyond this there is nothing attractive in the
figures, except perhaps that at September
30 there was "Bs. 2d. of reserves to help, earn
divs. for every £1 of paid capital, which
means that total funds have to net only
a shade over 7 p.c. in order to pay a 10
p.c. div. Actually they earned 8.5 p,c.
last year, compared with 8.3, S, 7.7 and 7.0
p.c. back to 1923. That was after provision
had been made for possible losses, but' it is
unlikely that there is anything worth men-
tioning hidden there. In this-class of busi-
ness the risk lies largely in the amount of
other people’s money accepted and put out
on loan. The following table shows the posi-
tion in that respect:—
1920. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Capital . . £150,000 £175,000 £175,000 £175,000
Deposits . . ' 36,551 29,864 44,221 65,889
Other liabilities 3,923 8,142 13,742 6,030
Advances .. 250,504 287,263 309,928.327,375
Other assets. . 21
For each pound in the business owned by
shareholders there was thus Only ss. lOd.
of outside money at risk at Sept. 30. And
depositors and a handful of other creditors
could see over 44 times the amount coming
to them in advances. The market values
the proposition on approximately a 64 p.c.
basis and pays 30s. or thereabouts for the
scrip.
* * * *
Vai.e of Clwydd Coal and Brick Co.
(N.S. W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. . serves, serves.
£ ■ ' £ £ - £
June, 1920.. 12,923 10 p,c.= 3750 9,173 9,466
Dec., 1920.. 17,559 ME,,.,, 3750.13,809 ,23,275
Reserves capitalised, £15,000 . . 8,275
June, 1921.. 11,100 20 p.c.= 9000 2,100 10,375
Dec., 1921.. 7,426 10 „ „ 4500 2,926 13,301
Dropped out of reserves, £llO9 net ( n(i -
June, 1922.. 4,393 10 p.c.= 4500 )
Dec., 1922.. 6,437 10 „„ 4500 1,937 14,022
Dropped out of reserves, £lB2O 12,202
June, 1923.. 9,086 20 p.c.= 9000 86 12,288
Dec., 1923.. 7,928 15 ~ ~ 6750 1,178 13,466
£30,000 of capital returned.
Written off tax reserve, £3OOO 10,460
June, 1924.. 6,324 22J)p.c.= 6750 10,040
Dec., 1924.. 6,265 15 „ „ 4500 1 1,765 11.805
Written off tax reserve, £lOOO. . 10,805
June, 1925.. 4,627 15 p.c. = 4500 127 10,932
Dec., 1925.. 6,199 15 4500 1,699 12.631
June, 1926.. 4,491 15 „ ~ 4500 12,622
Dec., 1926.. 8,127 15 „ „ 4500 3,627 16,249
June, 1927.. 7,773 15 „ „ 4500 3,273' 19,522
Dec., 1927.. 6,990 15 4500 2,490 22,012
Trade was not quite so good during the last
half; coal sales (£38,771) were £6437 poorer
and the return from the brick factory (£922)
dropped £256. Interest earnings (£1033),
however, improved £443, and the manage-
ment was able to make a cut of £5469 in
exes. (£37,736) ; thus after an unexplained
addition of £3OOO to the reserve fund the
declared net earnings were only £783 short
of the June figure. But the year’s net profit
sprang £2145, reaching £14,763, which re-
presents the very comfortable proportion of
24.6 p.c. on average capital compared with
21. 18 and 20.6 p.c. back to 1924, the year
following that in which £30,000 of capital
was returned. And even then half the re-
maining capital (£60,000) was represented
by bonus issues.
Interest now centres chiefly in the develop-
ment of No. 2 colliery. Wallerawang,’ which
is on a clean Oft. of some of the best coal
in the Lithgow seam. And the £59,776 spent
on the new pit during the last 12 months,
making the total outlay £89,616, is evidencf
of the vigor with which the work, now almost
complete, has been pushed ahead. Thus fai
earnings have received no benefit from this
expenditure, to meet which the board went
to its bankers for an extra £50,535 during
the year, and that made the overdraft
£55,793. Now that the production stage has


An Attractive & Permanent Floor Covering
The floors and corridors of many leading Business
Houses, Banks, etc., in Australasia are now brightened
and rendered silent by Dunlop Inlaid Rubber Matting.
In many private Homes, Hotels, etc., it is also much
in evidence. You have probably admired many of
these attractive floor coverings —their brilliancy and
design has appealed to you whilst the quietness and
comfort of walking on the resilient rubber incorporated
in Dunlop Inlaid Matting has been very noticeable.
" It’s fine!” is the usual remark. It is more than that
for Dunlop Matting confers so many advantages that
it is destined to become one of the most popular forms
of floor covering. In the world’s leading centres Rubber
matting is now recognised and accepted as the ideal
floor covering. There are many benefits that follow
its use it is comfortable and silent to walk on, non-
slipping, easy to keep clean, non-absorbant and water-
proof, thoroughly hygienic, permanent in design and
coloring, and most important of all, IT LASTS A
LIFETIME! No other floor covering offers so much.
It is made in the sheet in two thicknesses, 3 /i6" and X"
in runner formation up to 72" wide, in any length.
The design and coloring goes right through the rubber,
ensuring absolute permanency. Being made of rubber,
and a non-conductor, the coldest or hottest weather has
no effect upon it.
m
V
v .
•m
it
I ;
”'*■ ' W, -
m
inhHfc X M
m
■ .->•
X
.
*; \
v
••• '--X-
-is
a
’/fly
■
■
Hi
■ : ■ : '
Uni
'"• v •-
ay
IH
a
,
This Illustration depicts an attractive application of Dunlop Inlaid Matting and non-slipping Rubber Stair Nosings .
IDEAL
Duals
teamships
IO l '°
G
asts
amiy sign;
DUNLOP
RUBBER
INLAID
MATTING
The cost of having Dunlop Matting installed
is the first and only expense — and on
account of its wonderful durability it is the
most economical floor covering extant.
It is made in many attractive designs —
whilst a wide range of color schemes
is available. We shall be pleased
to submit samples, designs,
prices, etc., to those interested.
Correspondence invited.
DUNLOP
RUBBER Co.
of Aust. Ltd.
Melbourne, Sydney,
Adelaide, Brisbane,
Pfcrth, Launceston,
flobart . and N.Z.
<
S 3 *
3iMi
“> ■; -
Ski
r
bbsoN
A beautiful Dunlop design carried out in buff, black, royal blue and white.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
ARTHUR EEDY,
General Secretary.
fds
3 O °N
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
v\ 4
DT
-Swift & Company Ltd.. AimtraUiwian Agent*. 2f> SO Clarrm'e St.. Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Daltorv House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in. Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire. Marine. Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops. Stacks. Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Kates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 118 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
rr a TATS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
CLAIMS I'KUJlin.i * AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY, J.P., Chairman. G - HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
GOOD INSURANCE
Is More Important than
a Good Investment.
Your policy may be worthless to
Your family.
The February number of
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly"
deals with this and a score of
other important items.
ON SALE SATURDAY,
FEBRUARY 4.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/G.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
Bundi Tin’s two dredges in the Bundi
and Cheneli valleys, F.M.S., have been win-
ning consistent returns. For the first half
of January 29 tons of t.o. was taken from
77,000 cubic yards, or an average * of
roughly .901b. to the yard. The return for
December was 60 tons from 161,000 yards,
or a shade under ,901b. to the yard.
# * Ht *
We stock -f- GF -j- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
fiom William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
Crystal clear water, free from taint of metai,
flows through Pioneer Wood Pipe to reach the con-
sumer as fresh as it leaves its source, for the clean,
smooth staves which form the inner bore afford no
lodgment for growths or sediment. It cannot corrode
or rust. There are many other advantages that recom-
mend Pioneer Wood Pipe to far-sighted engineers.
Get our data book. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove (Ferry to Figtree
Bridge), N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
H* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Sydney; J. R.
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney, Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.i.ison & Co., 483 Collins St’vet, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yeais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Insley (U.S.A.) One-man Crawler-type Petrol
or Motor-driven Power Shovel. This one machine
does the work of six. Namely, Shovelling, Ditch-
ing, Skimmer Scooping, Crane work, Dragline, Back-
filler and Magnet. Sole Agents: Arthur Leplastrier
and Co. Pty., Ltd., Sirius House, Macquarie Place,
Sydney ; Collins House, Melbourne, 164 Edward
Street, Brisbane; and Morphett Street, Adelaide.
—Advt.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
been reached future results will largely de-
pend upon sales, and in that respect it is
worth noting that the co.’s tender for the
supply of 25,000 tons of coal to the Civic
Commission has been recommended for accept-
ance ; also that the Lithgow Coal Associa-
tion is functioning as efficiently as ever.
Further, the new equipment should not call
for much in the way of renewals for a
while. The prospects are that the new pit
w T ill give a good account of itself; subject,
of course, to industrial conditions, which are
the general bugbear of the industry.
The liquid position suffered, as w r as to be
expected :
Dee., Dec., Dec., Dec.,
1924. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Liquid assets .. £40,804 £41,828 £30,177 £28,306
Liabilities.. .. 1,166 1,738 12,618 62,161
Surplus . . £39,638 £40,090 £17,559
Excess liabilities £33,855 .
Apart from the new colliery fixed assets total
only £30,751, a figure which suggests that
the provision for depreciation has been lib-
eral, and that is an important matter, especi-
ally as there is many years’ life ahead of the
old workings yet. To ease the financial posi-
tion shareholders are offered 45,000 shares of
13s. 4d. each at par, one for two. When
all the money on that lot is in paid capital
will be £89,325, and a 15 p.c. div. will then
call for actually £1364 less than was netted
in the last 12 months.
The market expresses its opinion of the
co.’s prospects by paying 295. for the scrip,
equal to 235. 9d. after exercising the rights.
At the latter figure the return is a shade
under 84 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis, and
there is nothing to indicate that that rate is
likely to be disturbed. Visible accumulations
amount to 3s. 3d. per share, including the
new issue.
* '!• * *
“W.I.TJ.” : Thompson’s shaft of the British
mine is right away from the main works
and is even further away from the Junction
mine, which is on the adjoining lease. The
ore bins, where the recent £2OOO fire broke
out, are not in the view T of the engine-driver,
being below and on the other side of the
shaft. This isolation means, as in the last
case, that at week-ends or on holidays, when
few men are about, a fire can get a good grip
before being noticed. One recalls that the
engine-house was severely damaged in 1918,
and there have been other fires in the change-
house and offices. Broken Hill has had its
share of mine fires. That at the South was
the most disastrous surface blaze; about
£250,000 was involved. The Central fol-
lowed on its underground fire by one in the
mill, which put a couple of sections out of
commission for a while, and the Prop, nearly
lost its two mills and the forest of bridge
timber joining them when the southern end
caught alight a little while back. Block 14
lost its poppet heads and bridge in a blaze
over 20 years ago. The Block 10 change-
house, De Bavay’s stores and the Junction
offices were other mine conflagrations which
kept the fire-brigade busy for an hour or so
The underground fires at the Prop, and
Block 14 cost lives as well as money, and
there w 7 as more than the usual row over tlu
Junction underground fire owing to the de-
cision to flood it.
* * * $
The long-anticipated slump in tin prices
came with a rush in the new year, follow-
ing on a steady drop for months past. Last
month the metal slipped below the £250
mark, the lowest since April, 1925. The hap-
pening was rather to the confusion of those
who have been insisting that the alleged
shortage of tin supplies is a calamity only
to be avoided by stabilising prices. On
present figures, at least, the reverse appears
to be the case; it is the demand and not the
supply that is showing signs of shrinking.
For a long time The Bulletin has been
pointing out the folly of the high premiums
paid by speculators in tin stocks; premiums
carefully held up and nursed by astute stock
manipulators, some of whom are likely to
find their burdens heavy to hold. Although
a mild reaction has set in and the price of
the metal has risen slightly, buyers of tin
scrip have revised their estimates of values.
As to the effect of the fall on the companies
themselves, it may be said that those older
concerns which based their plans on a value
of £2OO, London, have little to fear. Those
who built on the £250 figure are on a
trickier wicket, and some of them, burdened
by the. additional fact that their recoveries
have been far below estimates, must be
doing some hard thinking.
* * * *
Interesting news comes via Roma (Q.)
concerning a find of inflammable gas in two
separate boreholes on prospecting areas situ-
ated at Gunnewin, about 30 miles north of
Roma. The bores are being developed
by Builders, Ltd., ft Sydney co. On
permit No. 1 gas was struck between
210 ft. and 220 ft. In the presence of Mines
Minister Jones and the Government Geo-
logist, the gas was set alight and inter-
esting photographs taken. On No. 2 permit
gas issuing from the borehole at 180 ft.
burnt freely. The present depth of this hole
is 341 ft. On a permit controlled by the
Kayenta Oil-Coal Co. a scout bore is being
drilled by the Chapman Well-boring Co.,
which expects to strike gas and show-
ings of oil under 500 ft. There is an artesian
plant on this ground capable of drilling
5000 ft. This plant will be used to prospect
for coal-beds. Of course, the country within
a radius of 20 miles has been pegged by pro-
minent oil companies. Geologists believe
that oil will be discovered north of Roma at
a lesser depth than at Roma.
* * * *
“W.”: A trip through the Far North of
Queensland shows that the working-miner
brotherhood would be in a perilous way if
tin had not stuck to them. There have been
so many gold duffers amongst the small fry
of Charters Towers and Ravenswood that
scarcely a miner can be induced to look at
them. Then came the dispersion of the
Cliillagoe prospectors, who hitherto had been
able to sell their bit of ore to the smelters.
Most of these have poked round Stannary,
Watsonville and Irvinebank, and a few have
located good tin ore in old shows. It’s the
old shows that are sticking to Herberton.
The old Bradlaugh and the Wild Irishman
are evergreen and both looking well at pre-
sent. The former had a Christmas crushing
of 42 tons, worth £1200; and the Rainbow
cleaned up 53 tons for £llOO. In the west
Stanhills appears to have been rather over-
boomed ; numbers of disappointed tin-shooters
have left the field, and returns from working
shows—hampered by want of water lately—
have been very poor. Around Mareeba
interest is worked up over the arrival of
dredging plant for the Mitchell River areas,
where boring is said to have proved good
dirt, but every estimate picked up at random
varies considerably. On the whole the new
year opens with promise for tin in the
Herbcrton-Irvinebank districts, but a drop
in price of concentrates —which now stand
round £l5O to £lGo— would damp the efforts
of new prospectors.
Cloncurry mines contributed £5600, the
value of copper ore taken out in December
by gougers. A small parcel from Hampden
Consols assayed 53 p.e. copper. Mount Oxide
has recently been let on tribute and the
party has just been granted a £2OO subsidy
by the Mines Department to put the road
in order. Teams can now get through and
motor-lorries will shortly be carting ore.
The mine is famous for its red oxide, of
copper contents, particularly for the variety
known as chalcotrichite, much in demand
for show specimens. T. .1. Ahearn and party
have the tribute, and if they get in amongst
the choice stuff some records in copper
values look like being broken.
Mount Elliott has thrown up its so-called
porphyry areas in the vicinity of Cloncurry.
The country proved to be mostly diorite and
quartzite with low and very spasmodic copper
contents. The co. now appears to be in-
clining to a general leaching scheme, wherein
Mount Oxide ores will assume fundamental
proportions. In addition, it is hoped to
formulate some scheme whereby the gougers
might contract for a regular supply of high-
grade ore from the smaller outside mines,
which the co. would not attempt to develop.
The Sanderson churn drill has been sent to
Dobbyn to test the extent of the Crusader
lode, and apparently results will not be un-
connected with the general scheme in mind.
Gougers are prosperous, but their present
happy position is due to a forced and not
healthy economic condition. It might prove
ruinous, in the end, for the vast reserves
of medium-grade ore in Cloncurry to be
deprived of all the sugar-coated stuff for the
present amelioration of bad times.
* * * *
Morobe Guinea Gold, an Adelaide flotation
on the Bulolo goldfield, which followed on
the heels of the more successful Guinea Gold,
has definitely announced the putting-up of
its shutters. Early in December last an
examination of the co.’s leases showed that
some contained no gold worth speaking of,
and others were too n arrovr. Shareholders
will have the dubious consolation of know-
ing that they will have plenty of companions
in misfortune before long.
* * * *
Westralia’s record last year in minerals
other than gold is not very impressive. Goal
alone was mined in quantity with success.
The Government mineralogist visited the Pil-
bara field and was “impressed” with the
extent of tin and tantalum deposits there.
But costs are mountainous, and very few
ventures were worked profitably. Several
copper and lead fields, between Marble Bar
in the north and the Bight in the south,
remained paralysed, and it is doubtful if a
single one of them will be worked while
prices for those metals remain at present
levels. Poona emeralds were spoken of, and
written about a good deal; one report stated
that the Central American mines, from which
most emeralds are obtained, are nearly
worked out and that Westralia would, there-
fore, shortly be the only large producer in the
world. Despite this optimism very few
cut gems appear to have been sold, and little
notice is now being taken of the periodical
assurance that “stones continue, to show an
improvement in quality” and that Poona is
a field of great promise. A little oil pros-
pecting was done in the north during the
year, but there was no flow. In the south
the hopes of holders and promoters of sup-
posed oil-bearing areas were blasted.
* * * * ~
At the Boulder Perseverance meeting chair-
man Bell referred slightingly to the West-
ralian Government's scheme for assisting
Kalgoorlie. He said it was undeniable that
Kalgoorlie mining was in a very unsatisfac-
tory state, but for the Government to vir-
tually insist on the recommendations of it3
Commission being carried out before it was
prepared to state what help it might or might
not render was unconvincing to the cos. con-
cerned. An expert had been appointed to
geologically examine the field, but to his
(the chairman’s) mind the whole question
was one of treating 30s. ore at a profit, and
until this was solved he could not see any
solid and steady future for the Kalgoorlie
mines, or the use of considering the erection,
as recommended by the Commission, of a
central plant where all the cos. could have
their ore treated.
sjs * * ❖
Associated Gold Mines, Ltd. (W.A.), still
hangs on. Last year’s operations showed a
loss of about £8000. and the board is so con-
cerned at the succession of discouraging
results that if it were not hopeful of getting
“something” from the State Government dur-
ing the next 12 months it would suspend
operations to-morrow. Ore bodies discovered
during the special development campaign,
started three years ago, have been largely
responsible for the rise which has since taken
place in the grade of the ore sent to the mill.
* * * *
Golden Butterfly is raising more capital
to finance another flight. It has flitted hither
and thither in the West in search of payable
mining ventures, but failed to find one. Now
it proposes to investigate several others
there, and has selected Ernest Bails, form-
erly of Mt. Isa, Kalgoorlie and elsewhere,
to do the job.
* s!= * *
Selayang, the London registered show
near Kuala Lumpur (F.M.S.) which was
floated by British Malayan- Tin in 1924,
continues to maintain its reputation for
mystery. The shares are held in some
quantity in this country, and since the large
and powerful dredge started a few months
ago, holders have been anxiously waiting to
see how returns measure up to expectations.
Estimates varied. Payne and Son (Lon.)
put values at from ,601b. to .451b. Malcolm
Newman thought 24.000,000 yards would
pan out .801b. to ,901b. The dredge, which
lias a capacity of 150,000 c.y. per month,
began digging in August last, and produced
a small parcel of 8 tons, averaging .731b.
Since then an atmosphere of uncertainty
has again descended on the show’s affairs,
and this was not lightened by a demand for
£35,000 more capital, bringing the total of
that up to £175,000. It has been explained
that the dredge has been working only on
boundary ground, and that better returns
may soon be expected. Meanwhile, share-
holders are wondering if anything has yet
been discovered about the limestone pin-
nacles which were alleged to stud the bottom.
The heavy capitalisation is another factor in
keeping the price of the £1 f.p. shares down
to about 22s. 6d„ which was all that cash
buyers were offering before the holidays. A
series of decent returns in the near future
would do much to disperse the gloom.
* * * *
Ronpibon Tin is a Melbourne float which
dates back to 1916, when it was formed by
the Palfreymen interests to take over an
area acquired by Austral Siamese Tin Ex-
ploration, now merged in Austral Siamese.
The capital is £300,000 in 150,000 shares of
£2 each. Of these, 85,000 ordinaries are paid
to 35s. each, and 50,000 cum. prefs. are fully-
paid. The prefs. carry a cumulative 5 p.c.
and the right to participate equally in any
divs. paid on the ords. The leases comprise
314 acres in Southern Siam, bore values
going up to lib. 12oz. Dredging commenced
in 1924 on ground that had been worked by
the shallow digging dredge of Ronpibon Ex-
tended, a subsidiary co. The new dredge
cleaned up the untouched bottom with good
results; it is still working on unselected
ground. Trouble has been experienced with
the stiff clay often met with in the Ronpibon
district, but the engineers are hopeful of
overcoming the difficulties. The average re-
covery, January to November, was 28 tons
a month. The small area at Thalerm, about
four miles from Ronpibon, which stood in
the Ronpibon’s books at £11,046, has been
sold for £6000 cash and 60,000 shares of
10s. each to Talerng Tin, an English co.
which has a capital of £300,000. The pro-
perty has been on Ronpibon’s hands for 10
years, but no attempt was made to work it
despite i-epeated threats of the Siamese Gov-
ernment to cancel the lease.
* * * *
Kamunting Tin, one of the leading
Malayan dredging propositions, is an
English co. with an Australian register in
Sydney, and was registered in London as
long ago as 1919. The property was ac-
quired from Austral Malay, and the original
authorised .capital was £150,000 in £1 shares.
In 1919 capital was increased to £800,000
in £1 shares, and later these were divided into
5s. shares. The annual report to June 30
last indicates no falling off in the co.’s
prosperity, for the net profit is given at
£134.078, as against £106,709 in 1924-25 and
£122,750 for 1925-26. With £33,825 brought
forward, £168,503 was available. Three
interim dividends, plus £20,000 for income-
tax reserve, absorbed £82,500, leaving a bal-
ance of £66,003. A final dividend of 10 per
cent, was paid, making the total dividend
371 per cent. Subject to manager’s and
staff’s commission, and directors’ extra fees,
£36,003 was carried forward. Output for
the year under notice was 1151 tons of t.o.
averaging £175 12s. lid. per ton. Combined
working costs for 1, 2 and 3 dredges were
4.08d. per yard, while a fourth dredge came
into operation last September, and a fifth
is expected to be ready to dig some time
about August next. The 5s. shares were
quoted in Sydney at 19s. Od. buyers on
Monday, sellers asking a shilling more.
* * * *
Straits Tin, Ltd., which has a capital of
£25,000, and J. R. Peberdy, late of Alluvial
Tin, as managing director, is reported to
have closed an option on 50,000,000 cubic
yards in Lower Perak within the ambit of
the Perak Electric Power plant. The latter
advantage should facilitate equipment anil
enable the company to avoid the tortuous
delays of the average dredging concern.


A
v ,
CfT
k
... /
1 1/ /
r
n
n
y
t
JS
for General Transport
For the building of roads---for the transport
of goods, materials, foodstuffs or people—
for any job of hauling or carting—-
Graham Brothers Trucks, built with the
famous Dodge Brothers engine, have the
power, the speed and the strength to serve
you dependably year after year.
And with their low price and low operating
costs they are recognised money-ma
world around.
leers
the
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Winlerbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Graham Brothers
Trucks
BUILT BY TRUCK DIVISION OF DODGE BROTHERS, INC.
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS DEALERS EVERYWHERE
l/2/’28.


THE “SUNDERCDT” STUMP JUMP DISC CULTIVATOR
The best
implement
for
Summer
Fallowing
m
m
■
m
m.
b ma
wmm 1 1
"?**r**s*-.-i ...
■*
Alternate
discs of differ-
ent diameter,
set with under-
cut, lighten
draught.
AUSTRALIA’S MOST POPULAR DISC IMPLEMENT
Unequalled for cultivating stubble land, hard-set fallow, or fallow covered by heavy weed growth, paddymelon, stinkwort, thistles, etc,
Sizes supplied: 10 Discs, cutting 5 feet; 14 Discs, cutting 7 feet.
MANUFACTURED BY— H. V. McKAY Pty., Ltd.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, VICTORIA.
BRANCHES t «
664-666 Bourkc Street West, Melbourne; 27-39 George Street West, Sydney; 102-105 North Terr.ee, Adelaide; Corner Murray end King Streets, Perth.
Distributors for Queensland; H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Br.sbane.
As necessary as a spare tyre
wi-nuH
t 0 ... ■
Wmmffi »A?<fr -Of#
■
Supplied complete with
easily-fixed bracket
and charge.
Bad enough is a puncture when you are miles from any-
where and have no spare tyre on board. Far worse is a
carburettor fire and no appliance at hand with which to
extinguish it.
Fit a Fire-Gun because
(a) It can be operated in any posi-
tion.
(b) Denting of the case does not
affect its efficiency.
(c) Leaking is eliminated.
(d) No solder, which tends to
cause corrosion, is used inter-
nally in its manufacture.
(e) The double-acting pump is of
special design to ensure quick
delivery of extinguishing fluid
with less effort.
(f) It is approved by the Fire
Underwriters’ Associations of
Australia.
(g) The price is competitive.
AGENTS WITH STOCKS.
BELDAM PACKING AGENCY (AUSTRALIA), LTD., 37 Sussex Street, Sydney.
GEORGE DOWNER & CO., Henty House, 499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD., 849 Hay Street, Perth.
MATTHEWS FIRE ALARM, LTD., City Buildings, Edward Street, Brisbane, Q.
CLAUDE H. SMITH & CO., 189 Gawler Place, Adelaide, S.A.
Foamite Fire Protection
A COMPLETE ENGINEERING SERVICE,


*Such a reputation is not won overnight”
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d . . . . 20 for 1/6
Major Draphin dS Co.. London.
Branch of The United
Kingdom Tobacco Co..
Ltd.
A
dsf
P. 8c C. SUCCESS MEANS
YOUR PROTECTION
Success is seldom un-earned, and the spectacular rise of the
P. &C C. to the foremost rank, in the short space of five (5)
years is due to the special services rendered by the Com-
pany. It keeps policies in force when times are bad; it
sets aside, each year, sums for loans to its members;'its
policies are designed to meet the particular needs of’ the
man on the land. In joining the P. & C. you obtain the
benefit of co-operative assurance and further the need of
the countryman.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Gen. Man.: H. Fell
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.,
114- HO CASTLE RE AG H ST. SYDNEY rM.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“F.S.G.”: After rec-ent dust-storms in. the
Victorian Mallee, residents in northern Tassie
rose one morning to find over grass, trees and
housetops a coating of reddish mud. There
had been rain during the night. The: inci-
dent recalls a somewhat similar phenomenon
when the early ’26 bush-fires were raging in
Victoria. Motoring along the Speck’s north-
west coast one afternoon I found the air
becoming heavy with smoke and thick with
“THE EDITOR REGRETS.”
falling ash. Apparently .there was a serious
fire ahead, and I had visions of being cut
off. At the first township I struck I was
apprised of the true state of things. Borne
on a stiff nor’-wester, the ash had aero-
planed across the strait.
“Homfrey Beale” : I nominate “Cock,” an
abbreviation of “Cockney,” as the commonest
nickname in the bush. Amongst the better-
known applications of it are, “Whisky Cock,”
“Brandy Cock” and “Port-wine Cock”;
there is even a “M-etho. Cock.” Then there
are “Cast-iron Cock,” “See-the-boss Cock”
and “Raw-material Cock,” the last a station
cook whose invariable reply to a request for
a hand-out is, “I haven’t got anything cooked,
but I can give you the raw material.” “Cod-
fish Cock” is so called because he is rarely
seen by other whalers without a cod on the
fire or in the billy ready to be cooked.
Among the shearers there are “Concertina
Cock,” “Banjo Cock” and “Mouth-organ
Cock.”
* * * *
“Colub”: The white snake seen recently
at Yass (N.S.W.) is by no means a rarity,
numerous specimens having been re-
ported in different places. Some-
times the whiteness is due to a
genuine condition of albinism, but
more often it is caused by disease,
generally in the shape of one of
the fungus afflictions to which
snakes seem specially liable. Some
years ago there was killed near
Dubbo a reptile which was almost-
the color of paper,' except for
patches along its sides which varied
from light-grey to a peculiar yellow.
This was probably an albino.
Snakes in which the whiteness ex-
tends to areas of varying size only
are fairly common. A peculiar fea-
ture is that, apparently, only black
snakes are so affected as regards
both albinism and fungoid afflic-
tions, no instances of the same state in rep-
tiles of the other varieties having ever been
reported.
* .,. * * *
“Up Top”: House-building presents no
problem in the islands of Torres Strait.
The rafters and supports are of mangrove-
tree. This is canoed long distances to islands
which do not grow the timber, but as to-
morrow is as good as to-day and next week
does not matter, the carting of the timber is
regarded as a picnic. The. roof and sides
are of cocoanut matting, ' woven by the
women. This matting excludes fain and is
delightfully cool in summer, but is not water-
proof for more than about two years. A
species of long grass growing on the sand-
banks will, however, when carefully woven,
make a roofing material with a life of seven
years. Much of the building is done on the
communal system. If a bridegroom finds the
material the crowd will shove up his house in
a day. Latterly, since the islanders have
been making money out of trochus-shell, the
ambition is to possess a house with an iron
roof “alia same white man.”
“XSA”: “G.V.H.” (B. 5/l/’2B) had his
leg pulled by the party of Indian snake-
catchers. During my sojourn in those parts
I was similarly deceived. The only venomous
snake to respond to such weird music as that
described is a well-tamed cobra. The cobra
can be easily caught, and music of any descrip-
tion is unnecessary. When encountered, the
reptile either gets out of sight in a flash
or slowly rises to give battle. The hood
expands and he sways a few times as he
gauges his distance. He then strikes, reach-
TONICKED.
P OLICEMAN: “I found this man lying on the footpath outside the Town Hall. He was
the worse for drink.”
PRISONER: “Y’r ’Onor, the officer’s not tellin’ the truth. I was never bett’r in m’ life
than I was feelin’ then.”
ing about three-quarters of his length; the
strike is never at a venture, aud it is by
expert judgment of distance that the native is
able to grasp the reptile whilst it is fully ex-
tended. I never saw professional catchers
tackle the king cobra, which ambushes its
victims and locks fangs when well into
the flesh, or any of the Polonga species, which
madly attack immediately they sight a human
being and fight to the death.
* * * *
“Snowhite” : There is a lady of tlje willie-
wagtail species who also appears to have no
fear of the devils of high-voltage current
(“L.1.,” B. 5/l/’2B). She is established, in
her nest, upon an electric cable at the rear of
a picture theatre at Auburn (N.S.W.).
Perched at a precarious height, she manages
to care for her three young ones, despite
the sudden death all round them. A peculiar
feature of the situation is that within a
stone’s throw there is a tree completely fitted
by nature for nest-building purposes.
“Motuku”: It may interest “Up North”
(B. 29/12/’27) to learn that Papua has no
monopoly of the yarn about the cannibals
who tried their teeth on a white man’s boors.
One of the Fijian tribes is said to have been
euchred in the same way by the knee-boots
of the first missionary they baked, but the
Fijians are rather sensitive about it. A half-
caste Fijian boy grossly insulted a half-
caste Tongan by telling him: “Go eat your
father, eat your grandfather, sat your rela-
tions, the whole jolly lot of them.” The
Tongan scored an easy victory by replying:
“All right, if you will eat their shoes !”
* * * :]C
“Toonooba”: When “Kooragai” described
tne angler-fish as “ugly as anything that
swims” (B. 5/l/’2B) he overlooked the
warty-ghoul, otherwise the stone-fish. This
horror, in whose poisonous spines death
lurks, is found in shallow pools on the Great
Barrier and amongst the stones of rocky
foreshores. Another grotesque is the goblin-
fish, found in southern waters; compared
with either of these the “angler” is a thing
of beauty.
* * * *
“Cooramin”: Dan Blister was the only
teamster on the road who had the name of
his waggon painted on a tin plate instead
of on the side of the waggon itself. It
was noticed that when he was nearing his
selection home the name was changed from
“Kqtey” to “Brigid,” and a day after leav-
ing home it was changed again from “Brigid”
to “Katey.” “You see,” said Dan, on being
questioned about it, “when I got that waggon
new from the maker it had ‘Katey’ painted
on it in beautiful letters, with blue an’
white an’ red decorations, an’ when the
missus sees it she sniffs an’ says, with the
jealous nature of her, ‘An’ who might Katey
be?’ ‘The girl in the song,’ I says, it bein'
a custom to name waggons after girls men-
tioned in popular songs, you know. ‘Girl in
your eye,’ says she, an’ sniffs again. ‘Some
hussy up the road, I suppose?’ she says. I
argued an’ argued, but it was no use. ‘lf
that waggon’s a female,’ she says, ‘you call
it Brigid—after me.’ An’ for the sake of
peace and quietness I did. But I wasn’t
goin’ to be known as Brigid on the roads.
So I had two plates painted that could be
screwed on an’ off. ’Twas the only way of
bamboozlin’ the old hen, you see, because, if 1
re-christened the turnout ‘Tipperary,’ or
something non-committal, she’d take it as
an insultin’ insinuation that I didn’t like
Brigid.”
* * * *
“Pick’’: Though feared when a newcomer,
a mule joined to a team of horses soon
attracts to himself a queer animal mateship.
When Eroni’s circus travelled the Bombala-
to-Cooma road (N.S.W.) its buckjumping
mule knocked up at Morrigang, and was left
with a roadside settler. Sixteen miles
further on the circus halted for a night’s
performance at Nimitybelle. Next morning
every loose horse and the donkey were miss-
ing. They were found gazing across the
fence of the paddock into which the aband-
oned mule had been turned.
* * * *
“Bihai”: The lake-dwellers of Papua,
N.-E. Division, are a strange community.
They lived on the shores of one of Papua’s
few lakes until, harried by mountaineers
from the Hydrographer’s Range, they de-
serted the land altogether. Making great
rafts, they anchored them hundreds of yards
from the shore and built their houses on
them, knowing that there they would be
Sfife from raids. The rafts are made of great
ilimo logs, a fast-growing tree found only
on the margin of lakes and rivers. The
canoes are of knife-like narrowness, so as
to make progress possible through the dense
masses of weeds bordering the lake. The
lake-dwellers have become such expert bal-
ancers that I have seen them propel them-
selves with ease on a log not much thicker
than a clothes-prop. The sight of them
skimming over the weedy waters gave rise
to the legend of a web-footed race of
Papuans. Though not web-footed, their feet
are extraordinarily broad and flat.
* * * *
“Esses”: Keeping his boots in repair is
one of the chief worries of the long-distance
swagman. It particularly worried Caleb, who
was rather tenderfooted and always hard up.
I found him doing a bit of cobbling on the
bank of the Bulloo River. He had two pairs
of old boots, one of which he was using to
niend the other, his last was a broken flat-
iron, his awl a nail filed sharp. The rounded
head of his tomahawk, slipping off the sprigs,
accounted for a number of scars and blood-
blisters on his thumb and fingers, and his
lips .set grimly as they closed over the stem
of his pipe. Sometimes he hurled the toma-
hawk savagely at the landscape, and hissed
after it like a snake; then he would shake
his fingers in distress and mumble for a
moment or sq, after which he would recover
the implement and resume operations. When
he had finished he discovered that he had
cut up two right boots and mended two left
ones. I left then, as Caleb became un-
sociable.
(Continued on page 25.)
OUR LITTLE BARK CABOOSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Upon our westing course was set
The wet’s impeding ban,
And drenched were trees and arboret,
And high the river ran;
But, caring not what rain was spilt,
We turned our horses loose,
And on a sandy rise we built
A little bark caboose.
There day and night, long weatherbound,
We snuggled safe and dry,
While frogs held revelry around,
And turbid floods rolled by.
We watched the river from within
Encroach on our domain,
And listened to the drowsy din
Of wave and wind and rain.
The veiling mist to winds a slave,
The wet pines bowed and bent,
To us in that crude shelter gave
A sense of rare content;
Though from the driftwood, logs and trees,
As night closed eerily,
Came hosts of creeping refugees
To share our sanctuary.
But fish and fowl were everywhere
Within our brief survey,
And what cared we what else was there,
Or that the skies were grey?
For drover or for harlequin,
The rain-god sent a goose
To give good cheer and comfort in
Our little bark caboose.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


Wa
i
M
)Q
o
V
V,
Strength/
Extra strength is built into every
Dunlop cover and tube to ensure its
standing up to the rough road con-
ditions of Australia. Imported tyres,
made for oversea first-class concrete
and bitumen roads, cannot be ex-
pected to give as good results and
they don’t! That’s why Australian
DUNLOP
TYRES
excel in mileage and economy and
are the most popular with Australian
motorists. With all the advantages
Dunlops confer _ they cost you less
to purchase. Fit Dunlop and you’ll
he satisfied. Garages stock them.
* * •
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
All States atl d N.Z.


Cbe Equitable Cife
flssce.
nois
e^m
Coy.
of
Australasia Ctd.
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane
Branches:
N.S.W.: VICTORIA:
84 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Transacts Probate, Life Endowment, Com-
bined Benefits (All Sickness ) Assurance.
(Vacancies for Producers with good records.)
FREDK. LEVY, Mg. Director.
iN
j.• ;n ..
\/
'T\
x. "
\ £
\ r
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
SHELCOTE
NEUTRAL BAY, SYDNEY.
Modern Private Hotel.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views,
Tennis Court, Swimming Bath,
Billiards.
Guests’ Own Laundry.
Excellent Cuisine,
MODERATE TARIFF.
’Phone X 1621.
Telegrams, etc.: “Shelcote,” Neutral Bay, Sydney.
“Wranbini”: The dead marine is put to
all sorts of uses out back. I have seen
many a grave in village cemeteries neatly
surrounded with inverted empties instead
of tiles or railings. Some had all-white
bottles, some all-black ones, and one, which
probably belonged to a temperance family,
was enclosed with ginger-beer bottles. Years
ago, when droving through the Ivoopa Creek
(Q,) region, I found two corked bottles
hanging in a tree near Innamincka; each
contained slips of paper on which travellers
had written their names. The tree marked
the grave of Charlie Gray, one of Burke and
Wills’s party, who died there.
* * * *
“Bihai”: Probably the animal described
by “Moe” (B. 12/l/’2B) as having been seen
on Mt. Albert Edward, Papua, was a wild
dog. The dinkum wild dog of Papua is
SHE’D LIKE TO BE SURE.
HUBBY: “I’m sorry, but I’ve got to go to Port Moresby with the boss, and I don’t
think I’ll be able to get back to-night.”
WIFEY: “Can I depend on that?”
found only at great altitudes; it is black and
white, and has a bushy tail. Unless a white
man had a close view of the animal I would
hesitate to accept the “distinctly feline
bead”; native descriptive powers are limited
and unreliable. Mountain natives, none of
whom live beyond an altitude of 6000 ft., are
not well acquainted with the fauna of the
peaks. One said when I asked why his people
were so untravelled: “If we go there we
may offend the spirits of our fathers who
live on these peaks; besides it is very cold,
and there is no food there.” There are still
queer birds and beasts in Papua to be
accounted for and classified. Moncton’s
“large graminivorous animal” on Mt. .Albert
Edward is one, and Humphries’ “bird-like
creature with the wings of a bat and tie
head of a willy-wagtail” another.
* * * *
“Motuku”: To get the sea-pike at his
best (B. 17/11/’27) one should troll for
him with a hand-line from a small outrigger
canoe. The savage brute, variously known
as pike, barracuda (not ’coota), ogo, ono and
hapa-tu in different parts of Polynesia, is
not full-grown at six feet: the largest I have
seen tipped 601 b. and put up a willing fight.
He charged the canoe half a dozen times far
quicker than the Tongan fisherman could
take fn slack, and leaped, with snapping
jaws, at the fisherman’s head. How far
the re ally big fellows can leap 1 can only
guess, but I once saw a three-footer land
at my feet on the reef platform, 20 feet from
the water’s edge. The hop, step and jump
champion of the Pacific is, I think, the giant
long-Tom ( Tylosurus gigantcus), who in a
series of five or six leaps that just clear
the surface covers 50 or 60 yards, at least
two-thirds of the distance being travelled in
the air. His sharp beak makes a nasty hole
in anyone who gets in his way.
* * * *
“Pigcat”: According to “Fana” (B.
S/11/’27), swimming in salt water in the
vicinity of a coral reef is risky. It is.
Gropers live in caves in the reefs, and a
man-eating groper is more to be feared than
a shark with the same appetite. That pow-
dered coral is the danger is nonsense. Then
isn’t an island in tlie Whitsunday Passage
without its coral reef, yet we islanders bathe
regularly, and I can’t see anything wrong
with us. Every time Igo for a swim inside
the reef I not only gargle my throat but draw
water through my nostrils. According to
“Fana,” I should be dead by this time. But
I do it, intend to continue doing it and make
my youngsters do it also.
* * * *
“Sea Nomad”: Torres Strait canoes can
beat the fastest lugger afloat; and some of
the Strait luggers are swifter than coastal
steamers. The lightness of the canoes can-
not be altogether the secret of their pace,
because the luggers also are light in pro-
portion and carry a far greater spread of
sail. I often think the canoe outriggers
materially help the speed. These torpedo-
shaped billets of buoyancy, well out from
each side of the canoe, are continually
smacked and bounced with a forward impetus
by the waves. It is only in a rough sea
that the outriggers actually touch the water.
* * * *
“Toonooba” : To the list of exiles found on
the waterless sand cays of the Great Barrier
may be added the domestic fowl and cat.
North-west Island, a cay three miles long
and one and a half mile broad, located upon
one of the reefs of the .Capricorn group, is
densely clothed by trees, some of which are
50ft. high, and vegetation. Its guano de-
posits were formerly worked by Asiatic
labor; on the project being abandoned, about
30 years ago, a number of English game-
fowls and a couple of cats were left to fend
for themselves. Fifteen years later a turtle-
canning industry was established there by
Capt. Owens. He found that the chooks had
bred true to type, but could fly like pheas-
ants, and were very shy. During the war
the turtle-industry was in abeyance, and the
“THANK HEAVEN THAT’S OVER!”
captain left the denizens of his fowlyard to
infuse new Wood into the old stock. At the
present time the fowls are abundant and in
good fettle. The contents of various seed-
pods constitute the main food supply, hut
the water problem is as yet unsolved. The
cats are exceedingly wild and are rarely seen.
Their commissariat is drawn from the
innumerable sea-fowl which breed upon the
cay.
* * * *
“Awani”: There’s nothing half so strange
as truth. A few weeks ago, when camping
by the Gwydir River (N.S.W.), I tried to
ford the stream in my car. Half-way across
the flivver stopped. I had to get into the
water to wipe the points, and while I was
pulling out my hanky a pound-note slipped
out. I didn’t discover my loss till some
time later, when I searched the water with-
out success. Fishing in the stream next day
I hauled in a 10-pound cod. Yes, the note
was inside him, none the worse for its adven-
ture. I spent the rescued flimsy in sweep-
tickets, and there my tale ends.
* * * *
“Morob” : The Papuan who slept soundly
w’hile a rat was gnawing at his great toe
(B. 15/12/’27) must have been an excep-
tional case; as a rule the New Guinea native
awakes at the lightest sound. I remember
once camping for the night in the New
Guinea bush with some boys in circumstances
which did not make it necessary to post a
guard. When everybody had been asleep
for some hours I was suddenly awakened.
The boys were all awake, too. On asking
what the matter was I was told that some-
body was coming through the bush, although
I could not hear a sound. Presently a runner
hove in sight bearing a message I had been
expecting. With his bare feet he was noise-
less to me, yet the camp boys had heard
him.
:Jt >5 * *
“M. Bada”: It must have been a very un-
prolific member of the carpet-snake family
that “M.G.” saw with only 13 eggs, and those
the size of pigeons’ eggs (B. 5/l/’2B) . In
a basin near Flinders Mountain (Q.) 20
years ago I located a carpet-snake under the
end of a log. Prodding with a stick would
not budge her, but a grass fire did; she was
over 7ft. long and her eggs numbered 52.
Each was as large as a hen’s, and was coated
with a tough soft shell. The little beggars
inside were eight inches long, pink mostly,
but showing the carpet mottling.
* * * *
“Borom”: The small black or brown bush
tick is more numerous this season than ever
before around Sydney, especially in the
noi'thern suburbs. And at least one death
has been attributed to its bite. The creature
is generally found on the leaves of small
trees and shrubs. It commences to burrow
immediately it attaches itself to the flesh,
its course being parallel with the plane of
the skin. The damage is caused by a toxin,
secreted in minute quantities but of con
siderable virulence. Practically the only
remedy is kerosene applied to the spot; this
causes the tick to hurriedly back out and
kills it. If, however, the pest has been in
position for any time, this treatment is of
no value, as it does not affect the toxin, by
then distributed into the circulatory system.
Generally, the effect of the poison shows in
the form of lethargy and a slight paralysis
of the motor nerves. If the symptoms are
at all pronounced, medical aid should be
sought at once.
% * # *
“Billio” : Has any dweller on the northern
Darling Downs (Q.) noticed the flight
of cream butterflies this summer? Usually
they appear between November 20 and.
December 10, flying towards the south-east;
the males are veined in black. As a rule
the flight lasts two or three days. But if
one has occurred this very irregular season
it has escaped my observation.
Jfc % $ *
“P.T.F.”: “Talkin’ erbout growth,” said
Bill, “them coves that bin tellin’ yarns of
’ow things grow in Gippsland ain’t never
seen ’ow the bracken comes up in the Otways.
I’ve often lorst a fern ’ook at dinner time —
list thrown it down —an’ the blasted stuff’s
grown thick over it while I wuz away. But
that ain’t all. One Satterdee I took me
workin’ boots awf. The sole of one was
lifted an’ the mud an’ soil ’ad got under it.
Some’ow a bit o’ bracken muster got there,
too; any’ow, w’en I went ter put it on nex’
Monday the stuff ’ad sprouted an’ grown
out twelve inches. Gippsland never seen
anythink like that.”
* * * *
“Whist”: There is a popular impression
that flying-foxes in their camps hang in fes-
toons. They hang singly, as a matter of fact.
On the elbow of each wing is a hook; these
hooks interlock above and around a bough,
and the bat there hangs head downward,
with his nose pointing upward. They keep
close together on a branch, and this may
account in part for the mistaken notion of
their hanging in festoons of five or six. How
the top bat could hold on to the limb with
the weight of his suspended brethren upon
him has never been explained by the
romancers.
$ Jjf
“W.C.S.”: Has “Kooragai” (B. 5/l/’2B)
ever heard of the angler-fish that was found
dead on shore with a fox caught in its
mouth? Apparently the fish had been
stranded by a wave and the fox, after crabs,
had negligently touched the bait and so set
off the trap. Other angler-fish have been
found with seagulls and other birds in their
interiors. Anything that touches the bait
goes in. It doesn’t matter about the quality
as long as the quantity is there.
THE SILENT BLOKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'E could ’ave told me ’ow things was, for ’ow
the ’ell was I to guess
A shrewdie like we reckoned ’im could get in
such a flamin’ mess?
'E could ’ave told me wot was wot, an’ I’d
'ave ’elped ’im all I could,
But no, ’e never even tried to tsll a feller ’ow
’e stood.
’E could ’ave put a feller wise, ’e could ’ave
said, “Old cobber, look,
I’ve ’ad a rotten run of outs an’ things just
now is pretty crook.”
And I’d ’ave known then ’ow it was, but
no, ’e didn’t, as I say—
’E must ’ave reckoned to the last the luck
was goin’ to come ’is way.
E’ always was a silent bloke; ’e kept things
to ’imself a lot,
An’ even w’en ’c done a ’and ’e never told
ysr wot ’e got.
An’ though I ’ad a shrewd ideer that ’e was
ridin’ on the rim,
It wasn’t likely that a man would butt in on
a bloke like ’im.
It wasn’t no concern of mine; I didn’t care
’ow much ’e won ;
It didn’t cost me anything ’owever big a
’and ’e done.
But wot I do maintain is this, ’e ought ’ave
dropped ’is lousy pride
Enough to let a cobber know that they ’ad
broke ’im to the wide.
But anyway ’e’s finished now, an’ it ain’t
any use to whine ;
’E ’ad a funny way with ’im, an’ I suppose
that I’ve got mine.
E’ might ’ave come before ’e went ’an ’ad
a yarn—but strike me fat
A man ’ud never get to know the way to
take a bloke like that.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
The Service Department has come to the conclusion that it ought to be giving
more help to wireless users and would-be users. To this end it has added to its
great chain of professional helpers two radio experts, whose opinions and knowledge
will be available to readers who forward inquiries.
Wants.
Respectable man, 40, wants position cattle
station ; understand windmills ; last position
seven years head stockman and manager;
references.—322o.
Queenslander wants position in N. S.
Wales as cowboy-butcher; can make small
goods; sheep station preferred.—32l7.
~ ’ ~„,1 . . , . T „
Man (40) desires employment Islands or
New Guinea; 20 years tropical experience
on plantations both coffee and sisal, also on
salt pans.- dlob. _
A.I.F. pensioner wants job, farm or sta-
tion ; good bookkeeper; can ride, drive and
mi1k.—3199.
Wanted by married man, 14 years Cen-
tral and S.-W. Queensland, stock and com-
mission business, management branch office,
or similar position country town N.S.W.;
highest rets. 41,J0.
Lady, young, Uni. education, journalistic
and teaching experience, desires position;
would travel as secretary or companion.—
3197.
Married man wants position as manager
or herd-master of a dairy herd ; 15 years’
experience. Any State.—32ll.
Position as watchman, liftman, timekeeper
or odd nights at a picture-show, by returned
soldier out of work.—-3208.
Artist wants position as manufacturer’s
designer, experienced, European training;
specialty birds, flowers and interior decora-
ti0n.—3177.
Jackeroo, 20, seeks position sheep station,
any State, two years’ experience, sheep and
cattle, Q. and N.S.W.; good refs.—3l7s.
Young man desires management cattle-
station, any district Q.; experience coast,
south wpst and Pnlf • «vond rot’s 3174
south west and Gult, good rets. 31 4
Young man, 20, U. matnc, literary,
maths.; unfortunate circumstances; any
position, congenial or otherwise; good testi-
monials —3170
, . ,
Sailor, ex-navy and mer. marine, sober,
willing, robust health, ex ref. seeks work
ashore, or harbor, rivers, etc.—3239.
Young man, energetic, own car, visiting
fruit-growing districts in Q’land and north-
em N.S.W., wants agencies. Good refs, and
capital.—3232.
Fully-qualified chemist, eight years’ experi-
ence, two years manager, wants position in
large country town; any part Australia. —
3176.
Wanted, “Royal Commission Report on
Government Printing,” London; also “Art
and Practice of Typography,” by Gress.
State condition and price.—32l2.
To sell, homestead farm (N.S.W.), 1911
ac., good sound sheep or cattle country.
Price, 10s. per acre. Cash.—3l64.
To buy five to 20 acres level land, Upper
Burragorang Valley (N.5.W.).—3165.
m ... , , . ,
.i^Lw n ,Z C 3iG7 SOme ° ne ° d ° Sl>
glass-mowing, aixu.
Copy of The Hero of the Piece. (Direct
to W. T. Williams, Box 588 D, G.P.0., Mel-
bourne.) *
For sale, land 49ft. by 184 ft., splendid soil,
Willoughby, near Middle Harbor. Torrens.—
3200.
“Moore’s Almanac” and “Sands’ N.S.W.
Directory,” 1919-27, wanted, especially T 9
and ’27. Also 1927 electoral rolls for Syd-
ney and suburbs and Monaro.—32o9.
To sell Queensland mineral specimens
suitable for collectors and school museums;
from £1 Is. to £3 3s. (Replies to Box No.
1, P. 0., Mareeba.)
To sell, double maple B.R. suite and other
furniture. (Direct to Mrs. L. Olley, 24 Fern-
street Randwick )
To buy, “Castle Hill” and other early Aus-
tralian b00k5.—3231.
m n « v t 4.u Tii t. 4. » on i
To sell, Art of the Illustrator, ’ 20 v ? ls.
(cost !sgs.) and other art books including
w^-3933' UStralia ’ fllst " class order ’ £2 the
’ * . j, t I, ,
W ant u ed . wo^?„. o£ Jonathan Edwards,
Wyttenbach, William Wirt and Buck’s
Closet Companion (Price, etc., to Daniel
O Iveeffe, Box -o, Geelong, ic.)
To buy “Water-Supply Engineering (Fan-
mng), “Structural Engineering” (Bright-
more), “Mechanics Applied to Engineer-
ing” (Goodman), and late edition “Aus-
tralian Roads’ (Coane).—323B.
To sell 100 pound paid shares in Palmer
River Gold Co. for £50.—3181.
To buy “Ballad and Lyrical Poems” by
Shaw Neilson (1923) ; state price. (Direct
to Mrs. Annie McKimm, 20 Cambridge-
street, Collingwood, Vic.)
To exchange French and French Colonial
fund other postage-stamps for Australian and
British stamps. (Direct to A. Tournouer,
C. de G., 76 Avenue Malakoff, Paris.)
Will exchange West Coast Leader (S.
America) or Panama Times for back num-
bers of Bulletin. (Direct to Edmond S.
Brown PO Onito <4onth \mprim i
Brown, 8.U., Quito, south America.)
Sydney repertory society has vacancies,
Thorough training offered free for suitable
applicants.-—3144.
Words of verse “Flying Kate.”—322l.
For sale large cuckoo clock; cash.—3236.
* e .* c 1 .
Information Sought.
(1) Price of crude eucalyptus-oil in Syd-
ney? (2) Would it be necessary to send it
from Queensland in jars or would petrol-tins
do? (3) Is the Sydney market price firm,
and what is the demand? (4) What quantity
can be distilled by two men per day? (5)
What is the prospect of export? (6) Any
information you may have on hand re the
industry? —2933.
(1) Ilemand for crude oil very poor, but
there is an active demand for oil containing
70 p.c. eucalyptol. (2) Should be shipped
in steel drums; petrol-tins are unsatisfactory,
and glass jars should never be used. (3)
Always fluctuating; likewise the demand.
(4) Impossible to state, depends upon so
many circumstances, such as capacity of
plants, nearness to leaves, oil content of
leaves, etc. (5) Not considered very profit-
able. (6) A new distillery could reckon on
a steady market all the year round provided
it could supply a good oil. (The article on
the subject in the “Australian Encyclo-
paedia” may be found helpful.)
(a) When does maize-picking at Orbost,
start? (b) Rate per bushel or bag? (c )
Docs the maize-grower supply huts, or would
a prospective picker need a tent? —3021.
(1) Usually about the middle of May.
(2) From sd. to 9d. per bag of cobs, depend-
ing on the yield of the crop. (3) Many
farmers supply a hut, but it would be an
advantage for a prospective picker to have a
tent of his own. A picker does not usually
board with the maize-grower.
Boilermakers at Walsh Island have been
offered a bonus for production. It is against
the rules of the union to accept piecework,
payment by results, etc. The executive
threatens expulsion to any member who
accepts more than the award rates. Would
expulsion be legal? —3lB7.
If the union rule does not conflict with
the award, there is apparently nothing to
prevent a union from expelling a member
for infringement. The Boilermakers’ Award
provides for payment of wages by the hour
and contains no provision for piecework. It
looks, therefore, as though the union would
be within its legal rights.
Is it necessary for the trusteee of a
small country hall to obtain a license from
the Australasian Pfg. Rights Association,
Ltd., if an occasional concert is held in the
hall? —3137.
Yes, if any of the pieces performed are
copyrighted, and the holders’ rights are pro-
tected by the association ; and most pieces
are.
Which is correct and why—“particulars
are as followsor “particulars are as fol-
low”? —2052.
Fowler, “Modern English Usage,” Oxford,
1926, the most authoritative recent work,
says it should be “as follows.” The authors
say the idiom is fixed and “no one would want
to change it except under the impression that
it was ungrammatical; to show that it is no
more ungrammatical than the innovation
[“as follow”] is to condemn the latter.”
Assuming that a boy in N.S.W. has passed
the necessary matric., what is his next step
towards becoming a chemist? —3l79.
. After passing Matric. or L.,C. exam., with
Latin as a compulsory subject, it is neces-
sary to be apprenticed to a pharmacist for
four years. Lectures in chemistry, botany
and materia medica must be attended and
exams, passed in those subjects—-usually in
the last year. A final exam, in dispensing
and pharmacy must then be passed for regis-
tration.
(1) I borrowed a sum of money on mort-
gage. The mortgagee died. His son tells
me I am not entitled to any papers at all
until the house is paid for. What shall we
do? (2) We agreed to repay our loan at
25 5. per week plus 8 per cent, interest
quarterly. The man died. No one told us
what to do about payment. When we got
icord there were three quarters owing. Now
they claim interest from the beginning of
the first quarter on the whole lot unpaid.
Is that right? —3loB.
(1) The certificate of title would be held
by the mortgagee, but you could satisfy
yourself that the property has been trans-
ferred to you by having a search made at
the office of the Registrar of Lands Titles.
(2) On the death of the father the duty was
cast on you to ascertain who had been ap-
pointed his executor and to pay to him,
when probate had been granted, the instal-
ments with interest as they became due. As
you failed to do so (retaining the use of the
money in the meantime), the mortgagee is
entitled to claim interest over the whole of
that period. Payment of the last quarter
in advance was your own suggestion and
the mortgagee is entitled to interest up to
the due date. Compound interest can be
claimed, but rarely is.
(1) Most suitable district in Victoria for
growing tobacco? (2) Acreage required for
a two-man show? (3) Initial capital re-
quired? (4) How best to obtain experience?
2fT3 to^acco ' in Vic. Payable? —
(1) Between Wangaratta and Myrtleford,
including Moyhu and King Valley. (2)
About 10 acres of tobacco from the time it
is planted out in the field until harvest time,
when extra labor will be required. (3) Land
ranges in value from £lO to £3O per acre;
also maintenance for one year. (4) The Vic.
Agriculture Department’s tobacco expert
advises men, when starting, to grow tobacco
on the share system with an experienced
tobacco-grower. The terms are usually
50-50 or a little better to the share man.
(5) Some make good money growing
tobacco. The average grower produces about
£2OO-worth of leaf each year.
(It Best time to arrive in Vancouver to
obtain employment during harvest? (2)
Which part of Canada is best for an axe-
man to make to, and is the timber cut during
summer? (3) Are there suitable employment
agencies in Vancouver? (4) Any restric-
tions on immigration from Australia? (5)
What vessels sail from Sydney? —3l36.
(1) Latter part of July or early-August.
Special rates are in effect from Vancouver
to the Prairie provinces: $2O (£4 3s. 4d.) to
Calgary and Ic. (|d.) per mile beyond. (2)
British Columbia; all the year round. (3)
Yes; operated by the Government; an appli-
cation addressed to Superintendent of the
Employment Agency, Seymour-street, Van-
couver, will receive attention. (4) No restric-
tions as far as immigrants from Australia
are concerned, but they should have in their
possession at least £3O in order tfliat they
may not become a public charge immediately
after arrival. (5) Canada-Australian Line,
every 28 days—Niagara from Sydney June
28, and Aorangi July 26.
Young man wishes to qualify as a veterin-
ary surgeon. What is the procedure? —
3028.
You can graduate as a member of the
Royal College of Vet. Surgeons in Britain
or Ireland, or take the degree of Bachelor
of Vet. Science at either Sydney or Mel-
bourne. Curriculum of the Australian
schools (based upon requirements of Royal
College of Vet. Surgeons of Britain) extends
over four academic years, commencing in
March. To enter as a student for the
degree it is essential to pass the full matric.
In Sydney Uni. students are allowed to
carry out a four-year course for a license
of competency in veterinary medicine. Such
students are allowed to enter on a matric.
pass at the lower standard, or if possessing
the diploma of the Hawkesbury Agricultural
College with honors. Total cost will depend
largely on the student; including board,
approximately £6OO, vacations not included.
Write Registrar, University of Sydney, or
Director, Veterinary School, Parkville, Vic.
(1) Best locations in N.S.W. or Victoria
for trapping rabbits? (2) How many traps
can tiro men handle? (3) Approx, cost of
complete equipment for a season’s trapping?
—3063.
Opinions vary greatly; but a Vic.
authority says: (1) Hamilton, Coleraine,
Omeo, Bright, Bairnsdale and through
Gippsland generally. Best time to trap is
from May onwards. (2) Depends entirely
upon the country, but 1 gross is a fair
thing. If the camp is situated far from a
town a conveyance of some description may
be necessary. (3) Quote for two trappers:
9-12 doz. Lane’s wire-spring traps at 255.
doz., £l6; tent, £3; knives, etc., 10s.;
blanket, equipment, £3 155.; wire No. 10
guage for stretching on, £1; cooking equip-
ment, £1; setters, 35.; spare pins, 10s.: axe,
6s. 6d.; spade, 4s. 6d.; extras, £1 —total
(approx.), £27 9s.
(1) Is there a N.S.W. Society of Archi-
tects to assist those desirous of building
small houses? (2) Are the members quali-
fied architects? (3) Are they recognised b\
the Society of Architects? —3112.
The organisation is the Small Homes Plan
Service Bureau of the Institute of Archi-
tects of N.S.W., 79 Pitt-street, Sydney.
The bureau has no members in the ordinary
sense. It is controlled by a directorate
nominated jointly by the Institute of Archi-
tects, the Board of Architects and the Master
Builders’ Association. Its function is to
supply plans to the less affluent members
of the public at fees within their means. It
is an attempt by the organised architects
to emulate the example set by the medical
profession in the service it renders the com-
munity through the public hospitals. The
director is Col. J. H. Hurst, who will gladly
furnish-full information.
(1) Where, when and how can I become a
qualified sugar chemist? (2) Gan the theory
portion be done by correspondence, and what
length of time would be taken for the prac-
tical work? (3) Is the supply of qualified
chemists greater than the demand, and what
is the salary? —3ol3.
(1) Brisbane Central Technical College,
or Bundaberg Technical College. Course com-
mences on January 27 ; examinations usually
•held about third week in June. (2) Central
Technical College does not deal with this sub-
ject by correspondence. (3) At present, yes.
No guarantee is given of a position on pass-
ing these exams. Application may be made
to Bureau of Central Sugar Mills for posi-
tion of junior assistant chemist, or to
Central Cane Prices Board for position of
clerical assistant, assistant cane-tester or
cane-tester. Salary of a junior assistant
chemist, about £6 per week; clerical assist-
ants and assistant cane-testers are paid at the
rate of £3OO p.a. for period actually employed.
Salary of cane-testers is £4OO p.a., with a
guarantee of six months’ salary.
Does a rain-gauge correctly record rain-
fall during a heavy wind storm? —3ll3.
Wind would certainly divert drops which
would otherwise fall into the gauge, but
would compensate somewhat by directing the
“following” rain into the instrument. Rain
does not fall at exactly the same rate over
the whole area of the storm; two gauges
20 yards apart may vary to some extent, so
that the compensating value may be greater
or less than the amount diverted. The
difference, however, would be only slight
either way. It is assumed, of course, that
there are no obstructions near the instru-
ment.
Procedure and cost to owner or purchaser
of bringing an allotment in N.S.W. country
town under Torrens’ Act? —3155.
Cost depends on value of land and other
factors. The procedure being technical and
probably involving the making of a number
of searches, it would be injudicious for an
unskilled layman to undertake the task.
(a) What is metal chemistry? (b) Can
a man who has qualified as analytical chemist
practise as metallurgist and what is connec-
tion between metallurgical chemistry and
ordinary chemistry ? —3135.
A study of the metals and their compounds
is generally included in chemistry, but ex-
traction processes are a specialised branch
of the science. The majority of those quali-
fied as analytical' chemists could carry out
the simple tests for minerals, but it would
not be possible for a chemist to successfully
practise as a metallurgist unless he had
had some special training. And even in metal-
lurgy there is specialisation. A man who
knows much about the metallurgy of steid
may be almost ignorant of the metallurgy of
copper or zinc.
Information Supplied.
296 S faded single-color typewriter-
ribbbon can be revived for a time by draw-
ing it two or three times through a pad of
cloth saturated with glycerine. The surplus
glycerine should be carefully wiped ofE with
a dry cloth before mounting the ribbon in
the machine. But don’t wipe too hard. If
it is a two-color ribbon, carefully dab on
by means of a small pad no wider than a
single color of the ribbon. To wipe off, dab
with a small dry pad similar in size to that
used for applying the glycerine. But any
process is messy. Far better chuck it in the
w.p.b.—“C.V.R.”
2932. —A first-class incinerator can be
made out of a 40-gallon oil-drum. Cut a hole
about nine inches square near the bottom.
Punch a series of holes through the drum
about a foot from the bottom; these holes
should be about or 2in. apart and hori-
zontal. Iron or steel bars are now pushed
through the holes and the incinerator is com-
plete with perhaps the exception of a few
small airholes punched in the drum above
the bars. The stuff to be burnt is thrown
in on the bars, and some inflammable
material inserted in the square hole in the
bottom. And after the stuff has got well
alight a piece of tin or a couple of bricks
should be placed in front of the fire-hole.—
“J.G.”
Does Anybody Know?
Recipe for making dog biscuits? —3160.
How to make a light wane for home con-
sumption ? —3133.
How to make a serviceable writing ink
from typewriter ribbons? —3082.
How could one man erect a dairy from
the mud taken out of a dam? —the climate
is extremely hot. —3148.
The old-time Marshmallow treatment for
weeping eczema? —2940.
Recipe for bottling tomatoes? —3105.
Brief Answers.
W.A.: Where are they going to keep the
guarantee fund? But, aa a matter of fact, these
timber cos. don’t “undertake” to do any of the
tremendous things talked about. They only “esti-
mate” they will be able to do them. If you want
safety first you won’t touch their bonds, etc. If
you want a gamble with very fair chances of large
prizes, they are all right D.P.: Doubt if you will
do any better by waiting.... Investor: Many safer
things are offering. But not many that we should
care to recommend for safety pay 9 p.c F.J.:
Write Dr. Eller}-, Mont Albert Hospital, Vie
A.W.L.: A subsidiary of Austral Malay, whose flota-
tions have been very successful. Only registered in
June, 1927, so there has not been much time for
developments, since it usually takes a couple of
years at least from flotation to the start of digging.
Been well reported 0n... .K.J.P.: Moliere’s Plays
(8 vol. j, printed in French and English; Angus and
Robertson, £4 4s. French only, from the Roycroft
Library (Rowe-street), or Dymock’s W.J.:
“Orchard Nursery Work” (Bulletin No. 63), N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture, 9d. (Three pamphlets
dealing with budding and grafting posted) J.E.G.:
A N.S.W. law stops newspapers from publishing
information regarding lotteries, etc., conducted out-
side the State F.8.W.: (1) See Service Page B.
12/l/’2B. (2) Mayer’s “Handbook of Modern
Metre,” Northcott’s “How to Write Verse,” and
Ford’s “Lessons in Verse Craft.” (3) Will take some
finding. Wait R.R.R.: Melbourne Motor Cycle
Co., Elizabeth-street, Melbourne... .C.J.H.: None of
the manufacturers of chaffcutters to whom we sub-
mitted your inquiry could identify the cutter. John
Buncle and Son. Pty., Ltd., Wreckyn-street. North
Melbourne, would welcome a letter of inquiry, etc.,
from y0u....E.5.: Only kind of collapsible rubber
boat we have been able to trace is the “Aircraft,
manufactured by Airships, Inc., Hammonds Port,
N.Y., U.S.A J.A.M.: From Sw-ain’s, 123 Pitt-
street, Sydney, framed, 10s. 6d. and 12s. 6d., accord-
ing to size. Casing and despatch by valuable-parcel
post to Queensland would cost perhaps 7s 6d
W.C.C.: Veronal is not supposed to have a direct
action on the heart and is not recognised as one
of the “habit-forming” drugs; but it is advisable to
avoid all sleeping-draughts, unless absolutely necessary.
W.D.: Vou probably mean the “Australian and
New Zealand Writers’ and Artists’ Year Book,” from
leading booksellers or from publishers. Box 2876 N,
G.P.0., Sydney, 2s. 9d. pos-t paid... .F.D.8.:
“Celotex” ; Australian agents, Burns, Philp, Bridge-
street, Sydney. See Service Page (B. 12/l/’2B) in
answer to question No. 2937... .A.W.N.: No record
of any sales. Published two volumes (1794-1796).
As you mention only the first date, we presume you
have only the first volume, which would make the
work of little value. .. .8.E.L.: (1) “Book Auction
Records” notes sales of old books. Also Burton’s
“Book Hunter” (Dymock’s. 6s. Bd. postage paid).
(2) A few of the works of Australian writers have
made a rise in price, but the larger number are still
worth no more than published price. It is not pos-
sible to state the probable future value of any
books by Australian authors. Mr. Piper, Second-
hand Department, Dymock’s, might be able to heip
you R.M.L.: (1) Reynolds. (2) Swains, Pitt-
street, Sydney, may be able to get a copy at a cost
of about 12s. 6d. ; postage and packing extra....
M. : (1) 8., P. and Co.; the Mataram to the Solo-
mons every six weeks; calls at about 20 ports; 31
days, £34. (2) Distance from seat of government
at Tulagi to Sydney about 1750 miles. (3) Copra,
trochus-shell and ivory nuts. (4) See Stewarts
“Handbook of the Pacific Islands”... .W.J.M.C.: J-
Furphy and Sons, Shepparton, Vic., make the Furphy
water-cart F.W.: The captain of the Nonpareil
on arrival in Melbourne, November, 1885, was E.
Finlayson... .R.D.: The reply was the opinion o
the Deputy Commissioner of Taxation. .. .A.U.T.: No
value on account of its age; its value would be just
what it’s worth as a teapot... .F.8.W.: Branwe::
Bronte, the brother of Charlotte Bronte, had a vogue
for a little time, but now there is no demand for
his paintings... .A. 8.: Several Sydney experts
been unable to fix the date the mark was added, but
think it was the late ’eighties. No value from the
standpoint of a collector... .J.0.D.: Lucas and Le
Souef’s “Birds of Australia” (225. 6d.), Leach-
“ Australian Bird Book” (7s. 6d.) and Froggatf-
“Birds of Australia” (10s. 6d.) ; Angus and Robert
son, Sydney G.D.: N.S.W. Tourist Bureau, Martin-
place, Sydney', will help y0u.... Interested: Send u>
their address, please. Several cos. of that sort have
almost identical names.... G.W. J.: Specimen forwardfd
is Eriochloa polystachya, early spring grass, a valu-
able fodder grass, common in the north-west of
N. It should be given a chance to seed in
the paddock; it will spread naturally.... Purari:
(a) 295. 6d. ; (b) not quoted; (c) West’s within
a 'month; (d) any- on the Sydney Stock Exchange
list; (e) West’s 74, 10, 10, 10, 124 in the past five
years.... (Many others mailed.)


Now in 2os. tins as well as the 4oz. tins and
handsome porcelain jars. It is full-cream,
perfectly matured cheese in spreadable form.
M
>xsr
£
&
TT
\
i
BEX
You never tire of its piquant
flavour and creamy deliciousness.
The wise housewife is never without REX Luncheon
Cheese. She spreads it quickly and easily on bread or
biscuits —children like its delicious piquant flavour,
and it is very nutritious. She serves it for dessert —
fruit, Rex Luncheon Cheese and crackers. She uses it
for sandwiches, in savouries, and on fingers of toast.
She spreads it on crackers which she heats in the oven
or under the toaster.
Rex Luncheon Cheese is an aid to digestion, its food
value is great, its flavour delicious. The reason? —we
use only full-cream cheese at the exactly correct stage
of perfect maturity.
Buy the cheese on whose quality you can rely —
REX
Luncheon
Cheese
ds
Other Choice Rex Sandwich Delicacies
REX Salmonelle, in glass jars
REX Ham Pate, in 2oz. and tins
REX Veal & Tongue Pate, 3]/ 2 &. tins
REX Devilled Ham, in 3'/ 2 oz. and l'/ 2 oz. tins
REX Ham and Tongue, in tins
REX Veal and Bacon, in lj4oz. tins
REX Anchovy Paste |in 3]/ 2 oz. glass jars
REX Bloater Paste • and tins
m
<?^!obs6
Pure
PRODUCT.
FOOD
CHEQN chi
T^cxao
>LUMCHE.OM
°Qq
Jones
3
FOGGITT JONES LIMITED Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon.


Make
the
Stock
vfe
*SS
make full market
values. They can do
so. But they must
have the necessary assistance to reach that
mark.
Consign your Cattle, Sheep and Lamls to
WINCHOOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Homebush Yards, Sydney, or
Enoggera Yards, Brisbane.
That step will render their sale at highest possibh
prices certain. Energetic, experienced, and compe
tent, Winebcombe, Carson’s work as salesmen is con-
sistently forceful.
~
VICHY
I
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
PEAPES
—for men AND their sons.
To school-outfitting for
youths and boys Peapes bring
the same high quality which
has distinguished their ser-
vice to men since 1866, com-
plete and exclusive stocks
which include every require-
ment for all the Great Public
Schools, and a thorough
knowledge of all that is
essential and most reliable.
Street
(Opp. Hunter Street),
Sydney.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
REDUCING PLOUGH DRAUGHT.
“Ekib”: Tests in connection with plough
draughts in relation to the nature of the
soil have revealed that manure tends to
increase the draught, while fertilisers and
lime have the opposite effect. It has also
been found that as the moisture content of
the soil increases the draught decreases
until a point is reached when a heavier
draught is encountered. This problem is
related to the state of the colloidal matter in
the soil. When the colloidal properties reach
a certain state they develop stickiness and the
friction is increased. In England experts have
taken advantage of the fact that the soil col-
loids are negatively charged, and by .electri-
fying the ploughshare, also negatively, a repul-
sion of the soil particles has been effected and
only a thin film of water left on th.e share.
Water makes a satisfactory lubricant, and
the share slid through the soil with greater
case and naturally reduced the draught. At
a voltage of 30 and a moisture content of
from 20 to 23 per cent., the reduction, in the
draught due to electrification was as much as
70 per cent. Possibilities are offered in con-
nection with tractor-ploughing, as the neces-
sary current could be derived from the
tractor.
DRAWBACKS OF THE DORRIGO.
“P.K.P.” : As one of the original selectors
on the Eastern Dorrigo, I was astonished
after reading “Yufu’s” glowing account (B.
l/12/’27) to find that I knew so little about
a district in which I spent 11 years of
pioneering.
The eastern plateau, known locally as the
Eastern Dorrigo, has a poor, cold clay soil
without a vestige of lime other than that
supplied by the burnt timber. There are no
“red and chocolate loams.” Here and there
one finds a red outcrop of diorite formation,
but it is not the red of volcanic soil. There
are no natural grasses of consequence—
none at all if you except the hardwood forest
country and two or three little plains. All
the cleared lands were sown with artificial
grasses in my time—paspalum, red and white
clovers, prairie grass and so forth. All the
grasses save paspalum practically died out,
the land being too poor for them. Paspalum
survived, but never grew so prolifically as on
the lower lands of the Orara.
“Yufu” says fruit is not bothered with the
fly, but in my time the fly was rampant on
the lower lands.
In regard to the dairying capabilities of
Eastern Dorrigo, it is the poorest land for the
purpose in N.S.W., and I refuse to believe
that “working dairies average £2 ss. per
cow per month.”
The Eastern Dorrigo was originally purely
a timber country, and most unsuitable for
settlement. The throwing open of this terri-
tory to the axe and the firestick of the pioneer
was a governmental blunder that can never
be condoned. The area was boomed in the
most shamefully misleading manner. Irrele-
vant statistics were quoted and equally irre-
levant photographs of farm scenes in other
districts were used.
The Older Dorrigo, known as the Don
Dorrigo or Upper Dorrigo, is on a totally
different footing, and the line of demar-
cation is drawn as plain as a pikestaff
along the course of Rocky Greek. On the
western side you have rich, red volcanic
soil with a remarkable growth of scrub; on
the eastern side a cold, yellow-brown soil of
decomposed slate, with an overgrowth of
immense pine and medium-sized softwoods,
and, on the ridges, magnificent hardwood
timber.
THE NEW BEEFSTEAK.
“FY7”: Those diehard contributors who
have refused to believe in the existence of the
European and American craze for baby
beef will take small comfort from accounts
of the fat-stock show at Islington, the last
and greatest of the annual English fat cattle-
and sheep-shows. This year the reduc-
tion in the size of the exhibits has surprised
everybody, and the first prizes have gone to
animals that would seem pygmies beside the
elephantine beasts of a few years ago. The
heaviest animal in the show this year was a
steer that scaled a mere 17cwt., and he
didn’t get near first prize, which went to a
Shorthorn-Aberdeen Angus cross weighing
i3cwt. 271 b. and aged 1 year and 11 months.
Some years ago the same owner won with
a 19cwt. four-year-old. The prize for beef
cattle under 15 months was won by the
Prince of Wales with a 14-months steer
weighing llcwt. 281 b., now rated as the ideal
size and age for butchering. Sheep and pigs
followed suit, both age and weight being
much below those of earlier years in these
classes. The smaller breeds of cattle are
becoming more popular with breeders, since
it is from them that the smaller joints
which are in these days insisted on are to be
bred. Aberdeen, Angus and Devon beef, which
is well fed from birth and brought to maturity
at about 18 months, is now the ideal;
and to get the right results it is essential
that the calf flesh should never be lost, but
the production of beef carried on from birth
to the desired maturity at 18 months.
A PLEA FOR BETTER BACON.
“Porco”: There are two main factors in
the production of first-class bacon: uniform
feeding of all pigs at least three weeks before
they are slaughtered, and a uniform and com-
plete curing of the flesh. These factors are
of far greater importance than the breed of
pigs, for beautiful bacon and ham has been
made from the flesh of Berkshires, Yorkshires
and Tamworths, to say nothing of nondescript
breeds. It is not essential that pigs should
be fed on milk, though milk, in conjunction,
with other foods, is an excellent diet. One
successful curer of my acquaintance feeds
his pigs on peas for a fortnight before
slaughter, and in England peas, in conjunc-
tion with barley-meal and pollard, have been
found a good diet. Peas have been proved to
be better than maize and can be just as
easily grown and harvested, and barley-meal,
oatmeal and pollard are easy to obtain.
Now as to curing. The methods largely
used in Australia produce only a poor
class of very salty pork. Nobody wants
it. If they do they are very easily satisfied
and have to parboil it before they can eat
it to get the salt out of it. Parboiling
should not be necessary if the pork is
properly and completely cured. Competent
curers pickle the flesh of the pig for three
or six weeks according to the size of the
joints to be cut into, whereas commercial
curers rush the job through in seven to 10
days. With better attention to feeding and
curing the bacon and ham industry in Aus-
tralia could be made to pay handsomely, and
both domestic and export demand would in-
crease.
DRIVING HORSES.
“Nota Bene” : Drive slowly when the horse
is full of food and water, and after the
muscles are limbered and the system emptied,
increase the speed. Check up and let the
horse cool before stopping, and there will
be less danger of his taking cold or of develop-
ing stiff muscles, and less necessity for rub-
bing down.
Drive slowly up hill and down, and make
time on level ground and on moderate de-
scents. Never keep the same gait and speed
for a long time, for a change of gait is
equivalent to a rest. Never ride or drive a
horse without making his acquaintance and
securing his goodwill. Horses judge a man
as quickly as a man judges a horse. Feed
and water abundantly at night, but not till
the animal has had time to rest and cool.
Feed moderately in the morning or before
work.
More horses are injured by hard driving
on a full stomach than through any other
cause. Never let a horse eat or drink much
when he is hot from work.
PLANTING IN DRY WEATHER.
“Curlew” : Planting out in dry, hot weather
usually means heavy losses and poor growth
of surviving plants. It has to be remembered
that the leaves are pumps lifting the moisture
from the roots. When the roots are broken
in transplanting the plant is able to imbibe
only from the very fine roots, so that there
is a lessened intake of moisture and wilting
is almost inevitable.
The injurious effects may be minimised by
shortening the roots somewhat, trimming off
about three-fourths of the leaves and dipping
the roots in a cream-like puddle of good
garden soil. Keep the plants protected from
the sun during planting, and immediately
before planting dip each into the puddle—a
quantity should be carried in a broad, shal-
low receptacle. Place a plant in the dibble-
hole, pour a little water carefully in (to
carry the soil well down around the roots),
then pack dry soil around the plant. Next
lay a piece of newspaper big enough to cover
the plant, put a little soil on the corners
of the paper to prevent its being shifted by
the wind, and your plants are right for a
day or two and will probably all take. After
a couple of days remove the papers and at
evening open out the soil around the plants
and give them a drink. Thereafter use the
hoe frequently, depending on it more than
on the hose, which is no good without the
hoe to follow unless there is unlimited water.
Even in that ease, regular hoeings mean
much better crops.
PUMPKINS v. TOMATOES.
“8.-Gar” : A Bowen (N.Q.) tomato-grower
last year put in two acres of pumpkins, and
was lucky -enough to bag when pumpkins
were at the zenith of their price. He aver-
aged £1 per bag, and took off 250 bags,
a return of £125 per acre. It was a fax-
more profitable sowing than tomatoes, and
where tomatoes were planted last year lie
now has numpkin seeds. li-ish blight settled
the last Bowen tomato crop, but a glut of
the market may settle the fate of the pump-
kin crop.
AGAINST MITCHELL GRASS.
“Ei-omeno” : “Ivooragi” (B. 5/l/’2B) over-
states the case for Mitchell grass. It is the
finest grass there is for stock so long as it is
glued to tli-e roots, but as hay it is worse than
useless. Cutting and stacking has been tried
times out of number and has proved to be a
failui-e.
On a station not far from Longreacli (Q.)
over 40 head of cattle died alongside of stacks
to which they had free access. There was
no trace of sourness in the stacks, and per-
manent water was close handy supplied from
a bore in the paddock. The remainder of the
herd w-ere got away to good country in time
to save their lives. There are still about
300 tons of Mitchell in these stacks, and
anybody can have it who cares to cart it
away, but nobody in C.-W.Q. wants it, not-
withstanding the thousands of pounds which
are being spent for fodder.
RABBIT-FARMING FOR THE
GRAZIER.
“The Welkin”: At least one squatter I
know wonders whether lie is a slieep-man
or a rabbit-farmer. He is one of the Bailey
brothers, of Terrinallum, Pura Pura, Vic.
To dodge fines he has to employ a large
number of hands to destroy bunny and a
number of men do nothing else but attend to
this. In recent years he has paid for all
labor on the station with the proceeds from
rabbit-skins; and a credit balance has re-
mained. Rabbiting is conducted on business
lines. The rabbiters are employees; the
actual work in the main is digging out; the
carcases are destroyed—they shouldn’t bn;
and they wouldn’t be in countries like the
U.S.A. or Germany—the skins are dried,
baled and sent to market.
Poisoning, resorted to by so- many »quat-
ters, furnislies no direct return, and as a
metliod it provides no better results than
digging out or even trapping.
POISONING WILD PIGS.
“Moawhango”; The disappointment of
those who find the dingo too wily to take
a bait has its counterpart in the disinclina-
tion of Maoriland’s wild pig to abolish him-
self with poison. Areas of forest land in the
interior of the North Island, too steep and
inaccessible for pasture, have become breed-
ing grounds, and large mobs of energetic
grunters, radiate to newly-felled areas to feed
on young grass and ferp-root. In the early
lambing season, when the berry supplies give
out in the bush, the loss of lambs from wild
pigs has become extensive in certain parts.
Further, the damage to fences and grazing
areas is serious, for a counle of hundred long-
snouted porkers in this damp climate can
plough up a large ar.sa of grass land in a
month. The Government pays Is. per snout
for wild pigs destroyed, but the results
obtained with rifle, gun and dogs have effected
but little diminution of the pest.
An officer of the Live-stock Division made
interesting poisoning trials with strychnine
and phosphorus. Unfortunately, meat, such
as carcases of sheep, cattle and horses, had
to be omitted from the experiments, for
settlei-s decline to permit its use owing to the
danger of poisoning valuable dogs. The
baits experimented with were apples, arti-
chokes, carrots, potatoes, oats, barley, peas
and phosphorised pollard.
A vacated farm about 120 miles up the
Wanganui Rivex-, where pigs are numerous,
was selected for experiment. The whole of
the cleared land, between 300 and 400 acres,
had been rooted up. About 30 or 40 full-
grown pigs were seen grazing on the young
grass in one basin, and these were not dis-
turbed. Approximately 130 acres were pois-
oned, each variety being laid separately, and
the party retired to a high point overlooking
most of the ground. But the pigs wouldn’t
touch the poisoned baits. Another stock
inspector conducted trials in a distant
area, in this case using meat baits poisoned
with strychnine, again without any success.
There is little doubt that wild pigs will take
a phosphorised pollard bait enclosed in a
plump rabbit, but rabbit-fai-ming is frowned
upon in these islands. A ready welcome
awaits any Australian who can tell us how
to cope with the problem.
THE DIVINING-ROD.
“Furphy”: Much of what “N.M.L.” (B.
29/12/’27) says ou the subject of “dowsers’'
is true, but there are quacks in every pro-
fession. For centuries the business of divin-
ing lias been carried on in most countries,
and there must be something in it. What
the special quality possessed by these
individuals is still remains a mystery, but
it has been proved beyond doubt that, in
the hands of an authentic diviner, the rod is
infallible. I could quote “N.M.L.” a num-
ber of cases in my own limited experience
of the subject which would wean him from
his “neutrality.” In Australia there are
dozens of “dowsers” who run their own bor-
ing plants. If their rods indicate water at
any site they are prepared to put down a
bore on a basis of “no water no pay.”
These gentry evidently harbor no doubts as
to the reliability of their methods, as boring
is an expensive job.
I know of one case where two diviners
picked the same site on a large holding.
Their estimate of the depth of the water
differed to the extent of only 10 feet in about
400 feet. The first man did his boring at
the expense of the pastoral company; was
stopped when he reached his estimated depth
and the bore was abandoned. Eight years
afterwards, when all traces of former boring
activities were obliterated, the second man
pegged the identical site and at his own
risk Avent 10 feet deeper than the original
effort and struck a very strong flow.
As for guessing a site, geologists tell us
that surface contours of the ground have
no relation to the flow of subterranean
water, so there isn’t much scope for pure
guesswork.
A BUSH-FIRE BRIGADE.
“G. 0.”: The Savernake (N.S.W.) dis-
trict has had a good deal of experience with
busli-fire fighting. Starting with one fire-
cart, the local brigade has increased its
equipment each year, until at the beginning
of this summer it had seven carts; six
horse-drawn and one motor. The first carts
were large ones, but experience has shown
that smaller and lighter ones are better.
Our motor fire-cart is stationed in a cen-
tral position and the horse carts at strategic
points on each side and about five miles
from the township. A fire is not burning
long before at least one cart is on the spot.
The motor can, of course, go quickly in any
direction, and, if necessary, at least two
more carts can be soon on the scene.
The brigade has a splendid ally in the
postmistress. As soon as a fire is located
the p.m. is notified and just as quickly as
they answer the ’phone every subscriber —
and that means practically every landholder
in the district —knows where the fire is.
TOO MANY WOOL-CLASSERS.
“Winifred”: Hundreds of men and youths
are attracted by the wool-classing profession
and take the sheep and wool course at the
Sydney Technical College or go to the
shearing-sheds with a classer, under the
impression that there they will learn wool-
classing and then be rusiied with sheds to
class. But it doesn’t work out that way.
Sydney T. C. puts through about 200 wool
students annually, and not 10 of that number
ever become successful wool-classers. Many
students drop out at their first shearing-
shed, where they find that the tedious duties
of a rouseabout give no opportunity for
advancement. The young Avool-classer with
a college certificate of competency finds it
is of no practical value. It will only obtain
for him a job as a woolshed hand, because
there are more wool-classers than there are
jobs.
The men who pay a wool-classer a pre-
mium to teach them are the real mugs. They
sign an agreement to work as shed-hands.
In this capacity they learn how to skirt
and roll a fleece and to pick pieces, but
little more. Most of them learn nothing
about actual wool-classing; in fact, it would
be impossible for them to learn in the hurry
and bustle of a shearing-shed.
SOUTH AFRICAN WOOL.
“FY7”: The threat against Australia con-
tained in the development of South African
fine merinos is recognised in the recent
announcement of Schute, Bell and Co., who
ought to know what they are talking about.
They suggest that it would do no harm, to
put it mildly, if Australia woke up to the
fact of South African competition. Recent
expert comment in England on the subject
declares that there is a larger proportion
than ever of good 70’s to 80’s quality
in this season’s South African clip, and that
they are very high-class wrnols. French
buyers have been again active at the
S.African sales, and it is obvious they ap-
preciate the fine spinning qualities of the
wool. It may be true that the high-grade
South African wools are not yet produced in
sufficient volume to bear appreciably on
prices, but that is no proof that the sharp rise
in South African wool qualities and prices
in the last few years is not going to become
(Continued on page 31.)


!,/'i l!\liv
Hl*)
mpiite
m
§
%
W/
M
m
m
wm
a
Sfcf
*s^4
§*
I
a
i
H
?=?
Tfnt
I
m
K§§
I§£
A\
HARDT'S
SRARKZLIJVG
S=r
«


<)
mam.
om
r
SIS
■ 1
1
il
o mm
>:
mwm
»
< m
i
*
*W«* it.« .l-M'**’*
#•«
IN SCO^A
ri.A.h
■1
' •
, -,'
■k
THE DI/TIULER/* AGENCY L.TD
EDINBURGH /COT^AHD


I
BROGUES-
heavy-soled
Abbey Shoes designed for sports-
men comfortably built for continu-
ous, active wear under out-of-door
conditions.
1 hey have broadly-welted, extra
strong soles and full-brogued uppers
yet they are light and flexible.
They embody the usual Abbey
advantages low-cut, close-fitting
sides, arched lacing, non-chafing
heels and roomy toes.
They include every practicable
improvement tending towards
greater foot freedom. And so they
are easy to wear from the first time
on.
Order by post three
fittings per size !
No difficulty about right measure.
Each size is available in three
widths, narrow, medium and wide.
Specify which you need and order,
also, a supply of the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin).
TAN WILLOW CALF 43/6
BLACK BOX CALF - 37/6
Write for a copy of the new 40-page
catalogue in color.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years ,
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
L 57. SYDNEY
li'any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
*er
Cuticura Soap Best
For Skin And Hair
Because of its absolute purity,
delicate yet effective medication and
refreshing fragrance. Assisted by
Cuticura Ointment it overcomes a
tendency to disfiguring eruptions
in youth and promotes permanent
skin and hair health.
Soap 1 s.,Talcum 15.3 d.. Ointment la. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co.. Sydney, N.S.W.”
SWBP' Cuticura Shaving Stick la. 6d.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — 1 — .think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
BIRKIYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
GOUROCK
KOPEWORK
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
W&W26.
mm
I/ondon Offiee:
“Gresham House/*
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zina
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association ltd'.,
Contractors icith the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
This year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
BUILD WITH
aßestos
/
S
SAVE time and money by using
Durabestos (the Wunderlich asbestos-
cement) to line the Exterior and
Interior Walls of your Home. Avail-
able in big, rigid Sheets cheaper
than wood linings easily fixed
cannot burn nor rot. You can obtain
Durabestos Sheets from your
local supplier of building
materials. Send to us for
samples, and free booklet D. 4
WUNDERLICH LTD.
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
more marked, and the output greatly in-
creased in the years to come, when Australia,
at the present rate, may have lapsed into the
position of a strong-wool producer.
TRAINING THE COLLIE PUP.
“Jim Domino”: “Lucerne Flea” (B.
29/12/’27) bites me when he suggests train-
ing a young sheep-dog by attaching him to
a hardened battler. This method has proved
in a number of cases to be unwholesome for
the younger dog. The old fellow, when he
feels the inexperienced pup hanging behind,
will frequently turn and give the pup a
hiding which tends to scare the youngster.
Even if the older dog takes kindly to drag-
ging the budding worker along, the greatest
danger lies in the fact that the young dog
afterwards may not work unless he has com-
pany. My experience has been that the best
workers have come gradually to the business,
and after, at the most, only a week with
other dogs. “Lucerne Flea” advises binding
one of the old dog’s paws to his collar to
slow him up. That’s just plain cruelty.
THE COUNTRY EGG.
“L’Fou”: “Eggs—choice qualities are
eagerly competed for; medium and poor are
difficult to sell; golden yolk and suburban
guaranteed, Is. 7d. per doz.; country lots,
Is. to Is. 3d. per doz.” That’s a typical
market report from Melb. Age. But need the
country egg be treated with contempt? Eggs
are perishable, but less so than meat, milk
and soft fruits, which are successfully trans-
ported. Also there ai’en’t many parts of Vic.
more than a day’s journey from the me-
tropolis.
It’s our old enemy, unorganised marketing,
again. The farmer’s usual procedure is to
save up the surplus eggs until going-to-town
day. then trade them with the local store-
keeper. He sells what he can locally, and
when he has sufficient surplus he crates
them to the city—where they are sold as
above reported, and may be dear buying at
that.
Eggs are worth treating with more respect
than that and those extra pence per doz. are
not beyond the bushwife’s reach. For small
suppliers the egg circle seems the best-mar-
keting machinery. A number of neighbors
become subscribers, have a central packing
depot (usually at a member’s home), and a
fixed weekly or bi-weekly forwarding day.
Subscribers undertake to deliver only stan-
dard size, non-fertile “fresh” eggs, which
means under three or seven days old, as may
be agreed. Forwarded this way freight and
commission are kept down, efficient packing
is secured and the combine, can secure better
markets than the individual. Further, the
egg circle spreads knowledge of improved
methods.
Here are a few things the owners of flocks
on free range might do to redeem the bad
name of the country egg. Pen cockerels to
fatten before they become a nuisance. Pro-
vide plenty of clean, attractive nests. Hens
like to lay in privacy, quiet and comfort.
If such are provided, one to every four hens
at least, preferably raised and in a dark,
quiet shed, very few hens will lay astray.
The roughest bough and hessian shelter will
serve. Gather eggs twice a day and store
in the coolest place available. Grow plenty
of shade and shelter. It costs nothing. Breed
only from your best birds and keep breeders
apart. Keep getting better birds. Consider-
ing how fast they multiply, the beginning
of a good team of hens doesn’t cost much.
GUINEA-FOWLS.
“D. J.H.” : Guinea-fowls, which hailed orig-
inally from Africa, are sadly neglected in
Australia, though for anyone who has a fair
area of ground no more paying line can be
handled. The Sydney prices are from 7s.
to 13s. per pair and the demand is always
keen. They are the hardest things on earth
to keep penned up, and the best way is to
keep them in a large house at night, and let
them roam at their own sweet will during the
daytime. There are no better insect de-
stroyers, and they generally get all their food
requirements in this way. However, feeding
in the morning with the usual poultry mash,
and a little grain in the evening, is an
inducement for them to come home for
roosting.
They prefer to find their own nests, and
start laying in the spring, the average laying
being from 75 to 100 eggs, and frequently
two or more hens will lay in the same nest.
The egg 3 are rather small, pointed, brown
and very rich. The period of incubation is
from 26 to 29 days. If the fowls are left to
themselves the hatching will be very indiffer-
ent, as they are not good sitters, only going
broody towards the end of the season, and
then going off with the first few T chicks that
come out, leaving even chipped eggs.
The best way to breed in any number is to
pen about a dozen hens and three cocks in a
closed yard ; collect sufficient -eggs, and then
set them under ordinary hens. .Care should
be taken to give the breeding stock plenty
of green feed, and provide a dark, secluded
spot for them to lay in. The chicks are
generally as wild as hawks, and require treat-
ment the same as is given to turkey chicks
for a while; then ordinary chicken rations,
but more frequent feedings. An advantage of
rearing them with a hen is that they become
tamer, but the hen should be kept in a coop
for some time, as the youngsters can travel
at an incredible speed when only a few days
old, and later become very strong on the
wing. No class of poultry can be fattened
as cheaply.
In starting off, if a pair cannot be pur-
chased, try a setting of eggs. In breeding
the same care must be exercised as with other
birds, and new blood periodically introduced.
Keep the chicks dry until they harden a bit.
INCUBATOR HINTS.
“Carisbrook, Jun.”: The temperature in
the incubator should be maintained at 103°
to 104°, apart from the last few days of
incubation, when the heat from the live
chicks in the eggs will itself raise the tem-
perature to probably 105°. The eggs should
be kept thoroughly dry, although at the time
set down for hatching (approximately three
weeks after the commencement of incuba-
tion) the shells may be softened slightly to
aid the imprisoned chicks to break them.
This is done by dipping a piece of flannel
into water heated to 106°. After wringing
it out until no further water exudes place
it gently over the eggs in the drawer of the
incubator. The flannel should be withdrawn
after 10 or 15 minutes, and the drawer should
be again closed to prevent chill. After hatch-
ing the chicks should be removed from the
drawers of the incubator to a coop, covered
with fine shavings or straw, and 36 hours
afterwards they should be given their first
meal of stale breadcrumbs, the feeding being
continued every two hours for two days.
Natural chicken foods should be given to the
chicks after the first two days. At the age
of six weeks they are able to look after
themselves.
DOGS AND RABBITERS.
“Don Les” : “Eureka” (B. 12/l/’2B) gives
me a pain when he says experienced rabbit-
trappers don’t use dogs. Here are four well-
known trappers who do: Frank Donnelly
(South N.S.W.) and Ernie Lyons (Central
N.S.W.), winners of every competition in
their respective districts; Billy Donnelly
(New England) and Fred Branzgrove
(N.-W. N.S.W.), who trap 60 to 80 pairs
a day, six days a week, and never were
known to walk a line of traps without a
tyke.
Ninety per cent, of trappers don’t know
how to work a dog correctly. The dog doesn’t
run ahead and find the traps, but stays at
heel and puts his master right only if his
master is at fault. The dog doesn’t scare
the rabbits. Once darkness falls Bunny is
afraid of nothing except the terrified squeal
of his own relations.
RABBIT AND ’POSSUM FARMING.
“F.H.S.”: “Lapin” (B. 5/l/’2B) reckons
a fur industry could be established on the
basis of the indigenous kangaroo, wallaby,
bear, ’possum, cat and platypus, and the
imported but well-established rabbit. I don’t
agree. Outside the rabbit, it is doubtful
whether any of these animals could be
reduced to the state of quasi-domesticity re-
quired by the modern fur-farmer, who has
to mate and cull his stock with as much
care as a sheep-breeder.
As to the Australian rabbit, at his best he
is a poor fur-bearer, the fur being too thin,
too short, and, worst of all, lacking resi-
lience. What possible objection can “Lapin”
raise to the introduction of the true fur-
bearing rabbit, carrying a pelt worth up
to 30s. on a carcase valued at Bd. per lb.
at Smithfield?
The British Board of Agriculture has
done its utmost to foster the hutch-rabbit
industry, to which it refers as “a profitable
subsidiary branch of agriculture,” with the
result that hundreds of farmers, orchardists
and market-gardeners are realising handsome
profits from rabbits fed largely from the
waste-products of their holdings, whilst there
are several farms housing up to 10,000 rab-
bits and paying handsomely. Why shouldn’t
this industry flourish in Australia?
GLAND TRANSPLANTATION.
“4X4”: An experiment of interest to
Australian stock breeders is reported from
England. This was a gland-implanting opera-
tion on a thoroughbred brood mare, Third
Trick, belonging to Lord Astor. Third Trick
did well in racing, and later at the stud,
but became barren. As she was bred on
good lines, it was resolved to try a gland
operation before discarding her. This was
done, and a Subsequent mating with Decision
resulted in a fine filly, Card Head, which is
one of the Astor entries for this year’s Oaks.
The operation is a reversal of the speying
operation with which every cattleman is
familiar, and is said to be quite within the
capacity of any competent veterinary sur-
geon. There does not seem to be any reason
why the experiment should not succeed with
unfertile sires, for the value of the opera-
tion has already been proved in the case of
human beings and lower forms of animal
life used for experiment. The rejuvenation
of a famous sire, even if only for a season
or two, would be well worth while, financially
and otherwise.
. HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Ken” : Never drench a cow that has milk
fever. The cow is only semi-conscious, and
the liquid is just as liable to enter the lungs
as the stomach, and may cause pneumonia.
“Silentio”: There is nothing like an old
piece of rubber hose for making handles
for kerosene-tin buckets. A six-inch piece
slipped on to the wire handle saves the
hands. Another good dodge is to wind the
wire handle, just at the centre, where the
grip will be, round and round a long thin
bolt. When the bolt is slipped out you have
an excellent spring handle, but be careful
to wind the coils closely, or you will pinch
your hands when carrying a weight in the
bucket.
“Silentio”: A good crop for present sowing
is the swede turnip, which if sown immedi-
ately will come on to the market when prices
are worth while. The soil should be well
worked and the seed sown in drills at the
rate of 2lb. or 31b. per acre, with drills about
four feet apart. For pig and cattle feed a
liberal broadcast sowing is best, as it keeps
the autumn growth of weeds down.
“Yufu”: A hint about making an old
rooster’s leg tender when you’re potting him.
Take a sharp knife and slit the skin all
round the lower knuckle of his knee-joint—
this joint is just a fraction above the
bottom of the knuckle. Now break the joint
free and pull the leg straight out. It will
take a hefty pull, but you will draw all the
sinews out of the upper leg if you haven’t
cut too deeply under the skin. This opera-
tion, with a tablespoon of vinegar poured
down the fowl’s throat a few hours before
killing, will make even five-year-old layers
edible.
“Serrefile”: Prevention of girth galls in
harness horses when a martingale is used is
accomplished without hurting the horse by
taking a bridle rein, sewn to the right
length, through the loop of the martingale
and buckling the ends to the shafts through
the D’s that take the breeching straps. The
girth is put over the martingale, loosely
enough to allow free movement, and the puil
is taken on to the shafts and not on the
girth.


The best cigarettes
for years
at
STftTE (xp^ess
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
WHY O’REGAN WENT.
"Twas all in a flash of forgetfulness
O’Regan left his wife;
A matter for much regretfulness,
But no domestic strife.
He just stepped down to the Carry-me-out
To pass an hour or two —
And a beer if somebody happened to shout.
As many a bloke will do.
And there was the deuce of a row that night,
And bottles flew thick as bees,
And somebody got O’Regan right
And he just gave out at the knees:
Just fell flat, .and they dragged him out
To wait for the coroner’s quest—
And that’s the way that it came about
O’Regan went to his rest.
And that’s the reason O’Regan went
And left his wife behind,
Though the coroner said that he never meant
To do anything so unkind.
And they writ on his tombstone: “An acci-
dent.
O'Regan—one of the best”....
And his ividow got hitched, soon after he
went,
To a bloke with a hairy chest.
TASMANIA.
BRADY'S LOOKOUT.
SMOKE-OH!
From grass widowhoods spring the seeds
of discontent.
* *
“What,” asks the Sydney Guardian, “is
more becoming to a woman than a powdered
wig and a beauty spot?” Surely, nothing.
NO DOUBT ABOUT IT.
“And is it a love match?”
“It must be. They played bridge as part-
ners all the year and are still fond
of each other.”
A recent army order directs that privates
of the Seaforth Highlanders shall shorten
their kilts. That ought to put the flappers
on their mettle.
H* H=
A Turk who claims to be 155 years old
is seeking a divorce with the idea of marry-
ing again. This seems to bear out the
theory of an eminent chiropodist that boys
will be boys.
* *
The work of many a girl clerk is to catch
the males.
* H=
Dogs that entered a butcher’s shop in
Eismore (N.S.W.) while the butcher was
ovit devoured 141 b. of sausages. We are
Informed that this ends a bitter vendetta,
one of the sausages having snapped savagely
at a defenceless dog a few days before.
* #
Now Leap year of its right asserts
New risk of matrimonial fetter;
And—hideous thought!—so short are skirts,
Maidens can surely leap much better!
Victoria. Mac.
* *
A woman in America secured divorce
because her husband smote her with a potato-
masher. It is generally another kind of
masher that causes the trouble.
•I* H*
“While whispers come from abroad that
skirts are growing a little longer, pictures
show that night-dresses are now three-quarter
length,” says the Sydney News. This will
probably come as startling news to those
old gentlemen who wear such things.
* *
“According to a cable the New York rate
of deaths from alcoholism in 1927 was 13
per 100,000, or slightly more than the rate
for measles in peak years.”
Juggling with figures, rows on rows,
The cautious statistician plots
I-lis graphs; and so to-day one knows
How many died from spots —and “spots.”
victoria. Mac.
Holly: “Why do you call your sheik your
caveman ? He isn’t the sort to treat ’em
rough!”
Polly: “No, but lie’s the sort to cave m
whenever I decide on anything.”
THOUGHTS OF A TYPISTE.
“All right, I heard the bell! Wish the
old devil would take his foot off it! Wonder
if he knows it’s five to five; and how on
earth can I meet Jack at quarter pastV
Inconsiderate old brute! Yes, I should
think you would apologise!
‘With reference to your let-
ter’- 1 I believe I will wear
that blue to-night. It’s
‘and pleased to know that
the goods arc giving satisfac-
tion.’ Humph! They haven’t
found out the patched-up old
crocks that were sent
‘Assuring you of our best
attention at all times.’ Isn’t
that the dizzy limit, after the
last crook deal we put over
on ’em! What, you want it
finished in five minutes! You
old wretch! Think a girl is
a machine? (Aloud. )
That’s quite all right. I’ll
do it right away, Mr. Jones.
No trouble at all!”
Doric.
* *
A broadcast announcer
says that wireless has added
thousands of new words to
the language. However, it
still has a thousand or two
to go before it catches up
with bullock-driving.
A Brisbane magistrate told
a drunk the other day to use
more will power. This sort
of advice from the Bench is
all very well, but how is the
average man to use more will
power when if’s mnepence
for such a small nip?
“Bathurst,” says the Sydney News, “has
one of the most successful farmers in the
State. He is the envy of yellow agricultu-
rists.” This statement is probably a result
of the film entitled “The O’Callahans and
the Murphys.”
h= *
“Children are such important people now-
adays,” says the S. M. Herald, “that the
designers spend quite a lot of their time
creating special clothes for them.” This,
however, does not seem to save the little
girls from having their frocks stolen by their
grandmothers.
Ex-King Ferdinand of Bulgaria has gone
to Brazil in search of anew type of bird.
It is reported that he did not think much of
the one he got in 1918.
“Modern shoes/’ says a shoemaker,
"denote the character of the wearer.” But
it takes the modern dress to thoroughly
reveal her.
* *
An airman says that, for flying, people
must be suitably clothed. Would it be right,
for instance, to go up in a crash suit?
* *
There’s always likely to be an explosion
when a man goes home with powder on his
coat.
* *
Posthumous works: Tearing up betting
tickets after the race.
BREAKING THE NEWS.
H IM: “I beg of you to think of me as you find me, even
though my name is (you will pardon me for saying
it) very well known.”
SHE: “Oh, how interesting! What is your name?”
HIM: “Smith!”
Gertie: “I don’t think much of Percy.
He’s always lying about the beach.”
Myrtie: “Yes, I don’t believe he makes a
quarter the conquests there he says he does.”
At Bondi a surf-bather liad a heart attack
when the shark-bell rang. Most surfers go
completely out to it.
* *
The man who had been held up by thugs
was bitter about it. “For a moment,” he
said, “my heart leaped with joy. I thought
they said ‘Your money or your wife’.”
FAIRY TALE MDXXXI.
There was once a very charming girl who
swore that she would kiss no one but her
brothers.
So the lodge made her vice-president.
* *
Sydney clergy agree that 1927 was a
bumper marriage year. The long-standing
record, however, was not lowered. There
was not quite one a minute.
Spots before the eyes are not nearly so
illusory as the ones we get in the bars these
days
* *
THIS WEEK’S RECIPE.
Carpet Bag a la Bachelor: A good dish
if you ask us to your place to dine. Take
2 to 2flb. very best steak, pound thoroughly
as usual, add garnishings of anchovy,
mustard and cloves, sprig with tomatoes,
and grill in best lard three to four minutes.
Take out of pan and put into ice-chest.
Remove other articles from ice-chest and
serve immediately with corkscrew and
cigars. (The steak might be all right for
your breakfast.)
* *
In Victorian schools boys have to undergo
a course of cooking. It mightn’t be a bad
idea to extend this course to include the
girls
A YEAR OF GREAT EVENTS.
Having made a careful study of the news-
papers during January, I confidently pre-
dict that the following things will happen
during the succeeding months of 1923:
February : A daily will seek the perfect
barmaid, and Iceland and Greenland will go
to war to decide who shall have the con-
tract for fencing the Arctic Circle.
March : Tin-hare shares will boom fol-
lowing the discovery that a Judge of the
Supreme Court has gone bankrupt doubling
up on his fancy. A Commonwealth liner
will be held up on account of the officers’ re-
fusal of duty until their meals are brought
up to fo’c’s’le standard.
April : A man at North Fitzroy will pre-
dict the end of the world by fire early in
November. Crematorium shares will slump,
and the first bets will be made on the Mel-
bourne Cup. Melba’s first
final farewell for the year,
and Seamen’s Union’s quart-
erly strike.
May: Sydney Morning
Herald circulation will rise
following the first frost in
Domain, and a new immigra-
tion policy will be announ-
ced. A sea captain will tell
the Argus that he has not
encountered a worse storm
for 40 years.
June : State and Federal
Parliaments will resume.
Great wind storms through-
out the country. -The Pact
will face destruction follow-
ing a criticism of Mr. Bruce’s
pants in the Tailor and
Cutter. End of seamen’s
first quarterly strike.
July : A royal commission
will be appointed to inquire
into royal commissions, and
a loan will be raised in New
York to pay the interest on
the interest of the loan to
build the Bullock Flat rail-
way (now defunct). Re-
turned Sydney business man
will tell reporters he is glad
to be back in Sunny Aus-
tralia.
August : The inventor of a non-negotiablo
ballot-box will be expelled from his union.
Seamen will complain that the third quart-
erly strike is overdue. Second Melba fare-
well. . ,
September : First favorite for the Mel-
bourne Cup will be announced, and a butcher
at Groner’s Gully will write a poem en
titled “September.” A hen in Brisbane will
lay an egg only as big as a hen’s egg.
October : Thomas Smith, of West Ham,
aged 107, will attribute his long life to the
constant use of tobacco and rum, and the
death will occur of the 99th last survivor of
the Eureka Stockade.
November : Speculation will begin as to
the result of the next Cup. A clergyman will
be unfrocked for preaching on the subject:
“Is gambling really an evil?” and a butcher
at Groper’s Gully will write a poem entitled
“November.”
December : The King’s Christmas pudding
will be described, and seamen will hold end-
ANOTHER SENSATIONAL SUIT.
“My dear, have you seen Effie’s new
undies? They’re -positively wicked:
“Yes, another case of criminal neglige."
of-year strike. Cables will tell of dra-
matic return of rich prodigal son to his poo:
parents in the Ukraine on Christmas Eve
only to find that they have been -eaten b>
wolves. 5.M.11. leader entitled “A Year ol
Great Events.”
Angus O’Cohen.
LATE.
A score of days since this new year began
I met my neighbor, Green, and swift he ran;
His sweating face was grim, his eye was
wild ;
“O God,” I cried, “wliat’s happened, man/
Your child. ...
Your wife... .your house... .some dreadful
accident?”
“No! No!” he panted, as away lie went;.
“I’ve just recalled,” the words dropped in
his wake,
“A resolution... .1 forgot. .. .to break!”
VICTORIA.
MACESS.
FEED THE BRUTE.
Though thousands of poems are written
Of eyes that are Irish blue,
The poets are more deeply smitten
By the charms of an Irish stew.
And the girl who can skilfully mix it,
With praties and onions galore,
And neck-chops with gravy to fix it,
Is a girl all the poets adore.
For a maid may be sweet and entrancing,
And in ballrooms the lure of all eyes—
Still, a man may forget her fine dancing,
But he’ll never forget her good pies.
So. girls, this advice I would tender:
Though men may be caught by good looks,
Beauty fades, and it’s well to remember
Good husbands are held by good cooks.
N.S.W.
CRIPPS CLARK.


Ljibsoma
-J
1 /•»!
J
V*
r?WI-vV»3»
, \
>ss
/
Miifi
;r/y
rf“*
■A^i'KS
7/t*
m
WSSM
» r**:S-'r':\?/;. WJW&2WW&
m
- >
so
-j%
XxS
*3f-
V.*/
!>‘/;kkmv
J
W"(
■$
mm
r*J.< ivfi-Vr.V-
-(•• V •>*
ms&Mmmm-slii
[ a
mrnmm
r M\
i-J
: :H;
Mk
mmm
* :■ ‘'Lin ,'•'->
*v^
& I
ft
iSF
, 'X/Xv'X
• :-; (> \j'tX'
•r #,.-?•*•
r X.V f7»W B?£S**S f*
r ,j
v2fi£?
> o
i
ft
i§§
K
sip
w&mm
piMMu
m
igSiil
& "d~ „
Ms
llgil'J
mMm
■msm
'timm/
mm
: mm
m
m<i
W
;n i
V
} it !> “ ■■
Lihim
y.U
SfMUBR
mm
i
m
<l!(
V
m
a
&v
k
st&ri',
wac:
■£w}
J/:'.-
SB®
K'_
sss
.^:; r^:‘\y^. /Xy
%MsSm
teh
m
p
s^^^Kmgssss^jg
SgSJSSS
K*3
swaa
S/Al
i-r.'
J
i
r#
fe'Jrlr.
m
m
m
gjj’At
Kj!
MU
Ik
m
*7
X
s%Vij
v;•/
/
S'ffi
r"
x
0^
A
A-S
M
m
’ll
}«&?
L >i'
■y
i-A
V*
A, \i‘
Mit.
X
xxs
=a-
QUALITY, and quality alone, was the basis upon
which “Gibsonia” Pure Wool Underwear was first
manufactured—a standard which has been rigidly
adhered to ever since; nothing will ever cause this “rule of
quality” to be departed from.
At the very inception, and ever since, the wool selected
for making into “Gibsonia” Underwear was the finest
quality grown in Australia the wool which Wool Experts
of the world come thousands of miles
to outbid each other for nothing but
the absolute best is good enough for
“Gibsonia” Underwear.
There is Safety in Wearing Pure Wool
“Gibsonia” Underwear
Pure wool is without equal as a protection
for the human body—it is Nature’s provision
for mankind. Even bodily warmth is regulated
in all temperatures, chill and overheating are
prevented, air is given free access to and from
the body.
“Gibsonia” Underwear is purest wool in its
most attractive form it is the choice of all
whose paramount concern is Health. The fit-
ting of every “Gibsonia” Undergarment is the
essence of comfort, the wearing ability cannot
be surpassed, the value is unequalled.
Wear “Gibsonia” Underwear
and benefit by the advantages
of pure wool underwear
there are garments for all
ages, weights for all climates.
Price Lists on Application to
FOY & GIBSON Pty. Ltd.
Smith Street, Collingwood
MELBOURNE.
Also at
Bundle St. . . . Adelaide
The Valley . . . Brisbane
Hay Street Perth


#
will appreciate
the delicate
Bouquet and.
mellow flavour of )
a
a !
BRANDY
ShiPPeo soitiv fsom rue coawc o»»««r
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Dikectous —A. C. Luva, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq..
M. j; Ryan, Esq.; I>. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager —-M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE . . . . . . BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
96 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also re Piesentation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the >vorld, tnis
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business^
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Poverty
Point
“Longo”: A unique first night was the
recent screening in the small township of
Murgon (Q.) of the Australian film “The
Romance of Runnibede” at a date coinciding
with its release in Brisbane. The Murgon
first night was for aboriginals only, and
the School of Arts was filled with 500
dusky members of the neighboring Baran-
bah abo. settlement, where most of the film
was made. The exuberance of the abos. as
they recognised themselves on the screen was
wild and loud. The outstanding actor in the
film is Dunstan Webb, as an abo. medicine
man. The obvious unreality of the picture’s
theme may militate against its Australian
success, but it should fare well enough over-
seas.
“Eureka”: An incident which I think is
without parallel in the history of travelling
entertainments occurred in the old days at
Candelo (N.S.W.). A travelling crowd
announced themselves as “a theatre under
canvas,” and erected a circus tent in the local
park. The attraction was “The Kelly Gang.”
but at eight o’clock the audience consisted
of only the policeman, a press representative
and two others, the rest considering the
prices too high. The sides of the tent were
then removed and the public invited to take
seats at a free show. At the interval it was
announced that a collection would be taken
up and if the amount was sufficient the
show would continue. After the hat had
been passed round, the show continued for a
while, and then the lid went round again.
In a touching speech after the final curtain
the management announced record takings.
“Lev.er de R.”: Although Murray, the
“escapologist,” is a good showman and stages
his eludings at the Tivoli very well, he did
not impress me as much as an Australian
doctor who did the same sort of thing for fun
on a Dutch boat running up to Java. The
medico —a little man who had had a career
of genuine adventure that would be a god-
send to a harassed theatrical press-agent- —
offered anybody the privilege of lashing him
into a chair. A burly Netherlands second
officer took up the challenge and applied
clove hitches, reef-knots, bends and bowlines
to the victim, making all taut by planting
one enormous foot on the frame of the ch : r
and hauling till the doctor screamed ror
mercy. A sheet was then hung up which
concealed all but the feet of the escaper from
the audience, and a stop-watch was put on
him. In exactly 7min. 50s.ee. a pair of
trembling hands showed fumbling at the
knots about the feet; an instant later the
healer emerged, pale and exhausted, but
free. If Murray would stage a simple test
like that members of his audience who are at
present inclined to be sceptical about his
gyves and brass-bound suitcases, would show
him more respect.
“C. 8.” : Chatting in his artless way about
the forthcoming production of “The Merry
Widow” with Beppic de Vries as the lady,
J.C.W.’s publicity man remarked in a recent
blast of propaganda that “it has been said
that only a foreign artist can give that atmo-
spheric interpretation of the role which
Lehar intended it should be given.” Who said
so, and where? The Firm certainly didn’t say
so when it was starring Gladys Moncrieff
in the part. Nor were there any complaints
of lack of “atmosphere” when Carrie Moore
did Sonia to the life.
“Bardie”: Just now a vaudevillainess in
Melbourne is being boomed as “The Girl
from Dixie,” and this prompts me to wonder
how many Girls have thrilled us on the stage.
Offhand I recall “The Quaker G.,” “The G.’s
of Gottenberg,” “The Dancing G.,” “The
Bad G. of the Family,” “The G. in the
Train,” “The Bohemian G.,” “The G. from
Kay’s,” “The Gaiety G.,” “The G. behind
the Counter,” “The G. from Rector’s,” “The
G. in the Taxi,” “The .Chorus G.,” “The
Country G.” and “The G. without a Charac-
ter” ; and there are scores of ’em I’ve for-
gotten. Once I played in a spasm called
“The Girl from Paris,” which was really
W. S. Gilbert’s “Wedding March” under an
alias. The first act ended with a man
trying to change his trousers coram puVlico.
It was in Melbourne, and when the pink
fleshings of the actor were revealed our cold-
blooded patrons walked out to return no
more.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : The circus Gees, some
of whom have been in Australia, have been
left a fortune by Mrs. Howes of New York,
widow of a famous circus owner. The
amount involved is reported to be a million.
The Gees learnt tiheir business under “Lord”
George Sanger.
Keith Barry: I often repress a smile at
the calm way most Sydney musicians and
others, including “J.L.W.” (B. 19/l/’2B),
disregard Queensland musical criticisms.
Another delusion some people suffer under
is that the city press has the only critics
whose opinions matter. Because Ethel
THE SPINNER.
TRAGEDY QUEE N: “I design all my own clothes.”
THE I NSECT: “Ah — applied arts and crafts.”
Osborne wasn’t press-boomed before arriving
here it does not follow that competent critics
hadn’t heard her and expressed favorable
opinions about her. Touching upon
“J.L.W.’s” reference to Clara Butt; that
lady is a most successful ballad-singer, but
not a proved critic or proved musician. She
has always been more popular with the
masses than with the critics, and it was a
very bad advertisement for her that she
missed Essie Ackland’s possibilities when
she heard Essie sing in 1921.
“L.H.P.”: “London’s Lost Theatres of the
Nineteenth Century,” by Erroll Sherson,
contains many references to mummers well
known in their time in Australia. Talking
of the defunct Duke’s Theatre, Sherson refers
to the great success of “The New Babylon”
at this house. “Charles Wilmot, who, with
Clarence Holt, ran the Duke’s at the time
of ‘The New Babylon,’ ” be says, “was a
most popular man in the profession. He
was an. Australian, and at one time directed
the fortunes of the Occidental Tavern in the
Strand. Wilmot rebuilt the Philharmonic
at Islington, renaming it the Grand. He
never would insure his theatres, and he
lost heavily when the Grand and Duke’s
were burnt. Clarence Holt, his partner,
a rough-and-ready actor of the ranting
school, had the unenviable reputation of
being the most foul-mouthed member of his
profession. Wilmot and. he both played in
the dramas at the Duke’s.”
“Wang”: Melbourne’s ancient Cyclorama,
which has vanished from Victoria-street
without a valedictory notice from the press,
housed a quaint variety of shows in its
time. Originally built to stage the Cyclo-
rama “The Battle of Waterloo,” it later
catered for the public with another, “Jeru-
salem.” When this sort of entertainment
went out of favor it became a boxing stadium,
concert hall, picture show and buck-jumping
palace. It has also housed evangelists.
“Hamfat”: Although Madge Mclntosh is
now in Australia only because she wanted
to exchange England’s winter for our sun-
shine, she will probably give the Repertory
Society a hand before she returns. Still
remembered here for her work as Fedora and
Camille in 1907, and in “The Blue Bird”
in 1912, she has been mainly interested in
Repertory work since her return to England.
She directed the Liverpool Repertory Theatre
—run on professional lines —for three years.
In Sydney the movement is taking the same
direction. The cast for “The Philanderer”
recently was practically all pros. Pshaw is
difficult stuff for amateurs to handle.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : There has been a great
pother in Dublin over Laurence Cowen’s
farce “Biddy.” It was refused a theatre
there, and in Limerick it was howled down.
Now Cowen is giving a private performance
in the Free State capital before the Roman
Catholic clergy, to prove no insult is in-
tended to them nor to the Irish people.
“Yaughan” : I had a yarn the other day
with Charles Pope, of the old firm of Pope
and Sayles. “Did you know,” said Charles,
“that I was the first picture showman in
Australia? Just after Carl Hertz showed
a few films at the old Opera House in
Melbourne, a chap named Findlay came to
me and asked me to stand in with some
money to start a film show. Well, I did.
We took a vestibule in Bourke-street at a
pound a day, and rigged a kind of a platform
over the doorway. Findlay did the spruik-
ing from there, and worked the machine also.
‘Walk up, gents., and see the wunnerful noo
Amurrican invention, a moving picture
taken from life,’ and so forth. The public
was a bit shy, and we had to get a few
‘rams’ to buy tickets every quarter of an
hour to start the rush. We got out of it
all right, but if I’d only stopped in it!
Gosh!”
‘TJ.Q.”: Democracy adores royalty in its
amusements, apparently. Among Melbourne’s
theatres are the Royal, the Palace, the
King’s, the Princess and the Majestic. Show-
ing at one or other of them at the time of
writing are “The Student Prince,” “Queen
High” and “All the King’s Horses.”
“L.H.P.”: From opera to drama and back
again is unusual nowadays, though Bryl
Walkley and Marie Burke have done it very
well. In the old days Alice Lingard and
Maggie Moore changed from the dramatic
to the lyric stage with facility. Nellie
Stewart as a youngster played small roles
in drama, and then traded in -comic-opera
and panto, for 20 years before she seriously
took up drama for good. Ditto Marie
Tempest, Genevieve Ward and others. Mrs.
Brough in 1885 gladly dropped opera for the
spoken drama.
“Adam Ant”: Recent Point references to
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin” remind me that Fanny
Wiseman, the oldest living Australian
actress, who is now bedridden at the Bureel
Nursing Home, Hlsternwick (Vic.), was
the Topsy of the first Australian production
of “Tom.” She has had more than 50 years
on the Australian stage, and last appeared
about three years ago as the Nurse in Allan
Wilkie’s “Romeo and Juliet.”
“De Oriel” : I once saw a cinema audience
completely surprised in a Queensland ham-
let. The local exhibitor drew his current
from a garage plant across the road, the
lighting cable crossing on 12-feet poles and
entering through an open window into the
lamp-house, placed on a table among, the
patrons in the back of the hall. • While a
rare old thriller was being screened a
threshing-machine passed by, and • its high
funnel caught the light cable and pulled the
whole cinema outfit back through the
window, leaving the audience in darkness
and bewilderment.
“I. Phelps” : Though his affluence is now
greater than Michael Arlen’s, Edgar Wal-
lace maintains the working day of a navvy.
Three new plays of his have lately taken
the stage, and two of them, “The Squeaker”
and “The Flying Squad,” look like stayers.
The other, an alleged musical piece in two
acts, entitled “The Yellow Mask,” and
crammed with Chinamen pursuing a fabulous
jewel, has done a preliminary at the Theatre
Royal, Birmingham. Phyllis Dare, a little
matured in her flapperdom, is leading woman,
and the cast includes W. Cronin Wilson,
the sepulchral-toned actor who tried hard
to tune in with tootly Lady Forbes-Robert-
son in “Woman to Woman” in Australia.
“Stellsby”: Owen Nares scores no points
over Harry Welchman, London musical-
comedy god, for good looks (“L. de Rideau,”
B. 19/l/’2B). With the gallery girls Harry
even outshines Fred Barnes, vaudevilles
beauty-man. Twenty years ago another
Harry—Ainley—was the Apollo of the Lon-
don stage, and our. near-girls will have an
opportunity of admiring his mature beauty
before long. He is booked for these parts.
“Fade-out”: “Kelby” is out a bit when he
says that no special art is required to play
the big picture-show orchestral organs (B.
12/l/’2B). This sort of organist is expected
to arrange his items and overtures and “put
himself over” as if he were a vaudeville act
.—and local organists can’t do that yet. An-
other reason for preference being given to
Yanks is that the public will flock to see one
of them where it would ignore a local man.
However, there is hope; Manny Aarons, an
Australian, plays the organ in a Wellington
(M.L.) theatre, and does it as well as any
American could.
“L.H.P.”: Boucicault’s return to Sydney
recalls the poor prices fetched at an auction
sale at Puttick and Simpson’s, London, of
the elder Dion’s once-famous plays. The
sale was in the ’eighties and the pieces fell
mostly to Sam French, publisher. “Arrah-
Na-Pogue” and “London Assurance” went for
£l5O apiece. That once popular racing play
“The Flying Scud” brought £4O; “Formosa,”
£54; “After Dark,” £7O; and “The Long
Strike,” £42. Three of these at least —“The
Flying Scud,” “Arrah-Na-Pogue” and “Lon-
don Assurance” —were phenomenal bargains,
being still among the safest stock “draws” of
melodrama.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) ; Sydney’s old
favorite Nance O’Neil has been the
critics’ praise in an unsatisfactory play, “The
House of Women,” by Louis Broomfield, at
the Maxine Elliott Theatre in New York.
Her impersonation of a lame old mother with
two impossible daughters was the best thin?
in the piece.
THE AUDIENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The curtain’s up—and dim grows every light
In the vast auditorium of night.
As from my house (the dressing-room behind)
I step, the waving baton of the wind
Compels to rare aeolian harmonies
The swift-responsive orchestra of trees;
And on my ears a further rustling falls
To tell of earth’s unseen, attentive stalls;
While in the circle sit the ancient hills
That, silently, have watched so many bills,
And from “the gods” the hanging stars lean
down....
And so, I step upon the stage—the clown!
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


Up or down. Tough skins or tender. You
can rely on a “Valet” for the smoothest of
smooth shaves.
The secret is the sharpness of the blade—and
the reason of that sharpness is the
a device that is part and parcel of the razor.
Ten seconds a day without removing the blade
and you have an edge like new or better than
new. Not once but 50 or 60 times for 50 or 60
perfedt shaves.
“VALET”
Safety Razor
No. 99 Set. Contains the essen-
tials for a perfect “ Valet ” shave
— razor, three blades and Q //T
s/ro/> in neat case . . V_)
I^6
‘-'■or
VAti
No. 55 Set. Contains razn three
blades and strop in hinged con-
tainer. In highly po- 1A /
lished niclielled case I U “
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Agents: VAN STAVEREN BROS., LTD, .AUCKLAND, WELLINQTON and CHRISTCHURCH.
mi,
7
.Alt. i
fill
rtWi
it*!
U!
JOHN JAMESON
★ ★ it
WHISKEY
* A' A.
txi
JJ&S
%A|
OMaJr^
ALL JOHN JAMESON'S
Dublin Whiskey is made
from the finest procurable
malt and barley, and dis-
tilled by the same ex-
pensive process that the
Jamesons used in 1780.
This is the secret of its
wonderful smoothness and
ripe, rich distinctive
flavour. Drink it slowly,
and taste it carefully 1
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
B. SEPPELT & SONS, LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
PERKINS & CO., LTD., BRISBANE, Q.
MILNE & CO., PERTH, W.A.
Radiant
Health
and Vigour
rat
<o»
r
V
Strong and energetic, she enjoys
work and play alike, and sleeps like
a baby when the day is over. No
wonder she looks so happy. The
secret is her regular use of Sanatogen.
When you feel depressed and every
little task seems a mountain of trouble,
your system is crying out for
Sanatogen.
Sanatogen is a wonderful strength
and energy producing food for the
weak and ailing. It gives nerve'
strength and health to those who
suffer from debility and lassitude.
Determine to try Sanatogen. It is obtain'
able at all Chemists from 3/9 per tin.
The True Tonic-Food
GENATOSAN LTD.. LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.


fds
f-
yi
Kerotin Spray Pump
The Kerotin Spray Pump is made of Brass throughout and fitted with
an Iron Foot for use with a Kerosene Tin or ordinary Bucket. Handy
for the Flower Garden or small Orchards; also for applying Lime Wash
or Disinfectants, and fitted with a special nozzle the Kerotin is a very
reliable Veterinary Pump for the breeder of cattle.
SEE OUR PUMP CATALOGUE
For Spray Pumps, Hand and Power Pumps,
Hydraulic Machinery, Pump Accessories, etc.
WE MANUFACTURE
Billabong Windmills, Billabong Pumps, Billabong
Troughing, Billabong Fluming.
Get Full Particulars and Prices.
JOHN DANKS &SON PTY.LTD.
391-403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Engineers’ ®rasswork
Brat* ottd /ran Gttodt
%and Speciatifitx 'Jar Si'BA M.
GM t WATER. APR. and Oft.
•John Danes & Son
mOPKIETAKY MMITKD
$9l-403 Rourkt St. k Melbwmt. 334 330 Pitt Si,. Sydnt?
f
“DASPYL”
Engineers’ Brasswork
Our Catalogue of Engineers’ Brasswork deals with Steam Cocks, Steam
Valves, Boiler Gauge Mountings, Petrol and Air Cocks, Steam Whistles;
Water, Steam and Petrol Gauges, Sluice Valves, Steam Traps, Safety
Valves, Injectors and Ejectors, Pipes and Pipe Fittings for all purposes,
Packings, Power Transmission Goods, etc.
Wrought and Cast Iron Pipes for Gas, Water, Steam and Hydraulic Use.
All Pipe Fittings in Wrought, Cast and Malleable Iron.
Brass and Copper Tubes and Fittings in all sizes.
JOHN DANKS &SON PTY.LTD.
I
391-403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
jia
V\.i 3
8 \4
7 6 5
Unhurried
Craftsmanship
Every ELGIN is a strik-
ing example of good
taste, authentic design
and unhurried crafts-
manship.
Conceded to be the world’s stan-
dard for watch integrity, ELGIN
also combines exquisite beauty of
design.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
&lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCEAND EFFICIENCY
jhiy Jrade Mark
in the Watch Care
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
dsf
The only Firm in the World
with permanent offices in all
countries to give service and
assistance to Travellers.
Their Uniformed Interpreters at all
ports and stations in Europe assist their
patrons in passing Customs examina-
tions, registerirg baggage, etc.
Passages Booked by all Lines.
Travellers’ Cheques Issued.
insurance of Baggage Effected.
Escorted Tours to Europe, etc.
Australian Farmers’ Tour to Europe.
Inclusive Independent Tours.
Summer Holiday Tours.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street-
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEYs
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildirr
~ (Next G.P.0.).


i!J$Wg
*v
n
BU
I
Vi
s®
•3 2
HI
fm
am
!l«HMi
X,f:
IBHB
pirn* 1
Mayes’ Australian
Builders and
Contractors’
PRICE BOOK
Practically Re-written in every Branch of-
Construction, greatly enlarged, illustrated
and alphabetically arranged.
9th EDITION
Price 15/- Posted 15/4
RIGHT UP-TO-DATE. Invaluable for
ARCHITECTS, SHIRE ENGINEERS AND PROPERTY OWNERS.
ESTIMATES FOR
All kinds of House Building Costs, Pitting and Lighting, Wire and other Fencing, Automatic
Closing Gates, Plough and Scoop Work, Tank and Well Sinking, Excavation, Dam Making,
Septic Tanks, Pumps, Windmills, Hydraulic Rams, Tractors, Pelton Wheels, Oil and other Engines,
Wood Stave Pipes, Boring for Water, Tree Rooting and Logging Plants, Felling and Squaring
Trees and Working of Timber, Pneumatic Tools for all classes of Boring, Drilling and Hammer
Tools. Different Air Compressors illustrated, with prices. Concrete Mixers, Modern Road-making
Plant, Modern Construction Tables for Reinforced Concrete Facing of Buildings (Faence) in
Terra-cotta, Sandstone, Ceramic, etc.
All Building Costs can be checked with the aid of
MAYES’ BUILDERS AND CONTRACTORS’ PRICE BOOK.
NEW 15 th EDITION—A NEW AND GREATER
DYKE’S AUTOMOBILE
ENGINESOLINE ENCYCLOPEDIA
1271 pages covering all classes of automobile information.
4300 Pictures, Plans, Diagrams and Charts.
15,000 lines of Index by which you can instantly locate any subject you want.
A new section of “Trouble Shooting” Charts in colors to enable you to
quickly locate any major or minor trouble on any car.
Special instructions on testing and adjusting every part of the automobile.
Specifications of Gasoline Passenger Cars, Trucks and Tractors.
Specifications for Replacements, Accessories, Interchangeable Parts and
Equipment.
Large colored Combination Chart which shows the working principles of
the Automobile.
Large Charts showing the working principles of Trucks and Tractors.
Every Car User
Every Car Owner
Every Repairman
Every Auto Salesman
Every Auto Instructor
Needs This Book!
Price 30/- Posted 31/0
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
Bookstall Corner, CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
HANDSOME FORTUNES
FROM PATENTS
A GOOD patent is a great monopoly, but its value
depends upon the skill with which the papers
are prepared and the faithfulness the case is prosecuted
at the Patents Office. For nearly 30 years H. H.
HAYWARD, Me.E., Patent Attorney, Sii'ius House,
Sydney, has acted on behalf of thousands of clients
in all parts of the world. Send for his free booklet
*‘ In T-i ori ’
£«■
£7/7/-Suits to measure, £5/17/-
At Murdoch’s Great Rebuilding Sale
Pure Wool Worsteds, in Browns,
Fawns, Dove Greys, Navy, etc. Also
All-Wool Serges, guaranteed pure
indigo dye. Faultlessly tailored to
your measure and hand-finished for
£5/17/-. Post Free. Write to Desk R.
Murdoch's in Park St. Ltd. Sydney
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australia n
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney :
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
DINNINGS, Edward, who left Middles-
borough, England, in 1905 with his
family, is sought by his sister. Any informa-
tion as to their whereabouts would be
gratefully received.
EOTTIE BINNINGS,
43 Vaughan Street, Pwllgwaun
Pontypridd, S. Wales.
-
•s
n*
Keen as a razor
shaped and
tempered for out-
door service, mod-
eled to fit the hand
with a sure, easy grip
pointed to find its
way quickly—double-edged *
to follow through. Just the
knife you need for cutting your way
through underbrush, for sharpening tent stakes, for
slicing bacon, dressing game or doing any of the other
innumerable jobs a sportsman asks a knife to do.
No. 49—Leather Handle, 4K_|nch Made, _ _
with Leather Sheath _ £?/6
AT YOUR DEALER’S.
MARBLE’S IDEAL KNIFE
The thick, strong blade relieved by hollow
grinding provides proper balance for
weight and size. Strength of back is neces-
sary for splitting, kindling and digging
holes in hard ground or ice. The hollows
aid quick sharpening. Blade adapted to
sticking and skinning. Back of point
bevelled for breaking small bones. The
IDEAL is an every-purpose knife.
Leather Handle with Hilt
Furnished with Leather Sheath.
No. 45—4-1-inch blade 10/6
No. 45 —5 -inch blade 11/6
No. 45 —6 -inch blade 12/6
No. 45— 7 -inch blade 13/6
No. 45—8 -inch blade 14/6
The above are the prices at which these
knives can be obtained at your dealer’s.
Marble’s Products are sold by most
good dealers.
WRITE FOR FREE BOOK, 48 pages,
Handy pocket size. Shows the complete
Marble Line.
MARBLE ARMS& MFG. COMPANY
611 Delta Av., Gladstone, Michigan, U S. A.
Representatives:
._W»tr
MOLDEN WEBER & CO., Box 1349 J, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE ... . . . . .. 3d
Containk everything a woman needs u know.
if any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price tor the original.
liegistered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAK.
Representatives ;
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD..
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY. England.
or.J£:
No. 1369.
THE INKY WAY.
Angus O’Cohen’ : This is the age of inti-
mate journalism. Melbourne Herald opened
Premier Hogan’s travelling-bag the other
night and told its readers of the difficulty
Mrs. Hogan had to get her tall husband a
bathing costume that would lit. It appears
that the ones which were the right width were
too short and when she found one long enough
it was two sizes too wide. I’m waiting
excitedly now to learn what fabric Mrs.
Bruce favors for Stan’s winter underwear.
John Drayman”: A. J. Villiers, who did
the Antarctic trip with a whaling vessel a
couple of years ago for Hobart Mercury,
is oft to the Cold Country to see a London
publisher about a novel which has been
accepted. At least, that is one object of the
voyage. Another is to write up for the
Mercury an account of an A.B’s. experi-
ences on a modern windjammer racing
another similarly-rigged old-stager from Port
Lincoln to the Thames. Hobart press com-
rades and their womenkind gave the adven-
turous youth a hearty send-off.
“Makarini” : Cable howlers? “Uneasiness
Apia deportations Nelgursmy” was a mes-
sage that reached a M.L. daily recently,
the interpretation being that Apia was
upset over the banishment of the Samoan
leaders, Nelson, Gurr and Smyth. An
abstracted sub. attributed the restless feel-
ing to the deportation of “Mr. Nelgursmy.”
Nellie Melba had a fresh honor given to
her the other day by the Adelaide Adver-
tiser. The fact that M. Escoffier, the famous
French chef and inventor of the Peche Melba,
had been promoted an officer of the Legion of
Honor had been cabled and the Advertiser
put it this way:—
The latest awards of the Legion d’l-lonneur in-
clude the French inventor M. Peche and Dame
Nellie Melba, while the doyen of French chefs , M.
Escoffieur, has been promoted to be an officer of
the order.
“Te Babarantiko”: Mention of artist
Jardine as a contributor to The Bulletin
for 192 S (B. 19/l/’2B) reminds me that I
was probably the first resident of Australia
to see Jardine’s recent full-page Bulletin
work. Early in May a friend took me to
meet him in his New York studio; there,
just being packed for the Sydney mail, were
three illustrations which have all since
appeared in The Bulletin. Jardine is
one of the busiest artists in New York.
At the time of my visit he was turning out
illustrations to clench the selling of a com-
modity which was the subject of a brisk
sales campaign. The colored-poster illustra-
tions then being prepared in Jardine’s studio
have now been seen all over the world; they
meet the eye pretty well everywhere in Aus-
tralia.
“Kriz”: The most interesting shipboard
paper I ever saw is the hand-written Wild
Goose. It dates back to 1867, when the
Ilougomont, with 320 convicts and 63 Irish
political prisoners aboard, set sail from the
Cold Country for Fremantle (W.A.). The
political prisoners were given more freedom
than the others, and four of them feathered
the little Goose. One of the copies pre-
served by a Westralian family gives a
glimpse of life aboard ship, including the
punishment cell and the triangle, “where
unruly convicts were triced up and flogged
every morning.” The editor was John Boyle
O’Reilly, the poet and Fenian, sentenced to
20 years’ penal servitude, who subsequently
escaped to America.
THE MORNING AFTER.
“Did you notice a stupid-looking man with
the hiccups at the party last night?”
"Of course I did, darling. He came home
with me.”
“Clerk”: Expansively the Traveller
asserts (B. 12/l/’2B) that, of the 29,000
copies of the Victorian Railways Magazine
presented to employees, “it is probable that
half are unread and a large proportion never
opened.” The Magazine distribution staff
in Clapp’s printing branch know better. They
will tell you of the deluge of complaints
which descends about their ears when maga-
zines are two to three days late in despatch.
Newport foremen were recently compelled to
ask manager Arthur to withhold issue of the
workshops’ 3000-odd copies until knock-off.
Earlier distribution, they found, invariably
meant half-time work and half-time perusal
of the bright little mag. The mere hostility
of union officialdom is itself sufficient tribute
to the popularity of the Magazine. It is
not so much that the paper boosts hard
work as that it is helping to foster a better
feeling between the administration and the
men.
“The Stew”: One of Commissioner Webb's
rail cars caught alight in Gawler (S.A.)
station the other day. Most of the down-
line mails perished, but any correspondence
which came through the fire and water ordeal
was immediately returned to Adelaide, re-
sorted and forwarded to the addressees. I
have just received one such letter, the post-
mark on which exhorts all and sundry to
“Say it by Telephone.” The safest way,
evidently.
“Eleerda”: Since The Bulletin recently
chronicled the passing of Thomas Whately
Rose, once of W.A., another Westralian
Tom Rose has gone out, a motor accident
at Burekup a week or two back being re-
sponsible. He belonged to the Rose family
that piotfeered some of the remoter n.-w.
country. Fifteen brothers ventured forth to
the Kimberleys in the mid ’eighties. All
prospered, and the wool prices of the war
period cemented their fortunes. Edward,
M.L.C., is the “boss cocky” of the crowd.
MORE WASTE.
THE OPTIMIST: “Anyway, there’s no one to
stop us from sun-bathing on this out-
of-the-way beach”
THE PESSIMIST: “H’m, yes, and no on' 'o
see us, either.”
“Rivet”: Next year, or the year after, the
White Star liner Majestic, 56,551 tons, will
be no longer the world’s biggest ship. The
White Star Line has ordered Harland and
Wolff, of Belfast, to build a motor-ship of
approximately 60,000 tons displacement anti
not far short of 1000 feet in length. Tha
Canard Line is planning a steam-turbine
ship of similar dimensions. An attack on
the Cunarder Mauretania’s Atlantic speed
record will he made by the North-German
Lloyd Line, with its 41,000-ton ships now
building, the Bremen and Europa,
“Mudros” : The verses about the lady who
inhales her cigarette smoke (B. 5/l/’2B)
recall to me vividly my first dinner at Sheps.,
in Cairo. The scarlet mess-kits of the G.O.C.
and his staff were matched by the Oriental
splendor of the soft-footed attendants, and
there was a fair sprinkling of civilians in
evening dress. The women were of all
nationalities, the fair Anglo-Saxons being out-
numbered by the dark, clear-skinned Latins.
All were brilliantly gowned, and many ex-
travagantly-jewelled, but one olive-skinned
beauty outshone all the rest. When dinner
was over she accepted a cigar from her com-
panion. and smoked it through her delicately-
chiselled nose with every indication of
critical approval!
“Hinemoa”: I recall a M.L. schoolroom
that served as many and diverse purposes as
the mission, hall in a N. S. Wales hamlet (B.
22/12/’27). The'three “R’s” were imparted
in it during the week, but on Friday the
desks were bumped out and the pews
arranged round the walls for the weekly dance.
Afterwards they were re-arranged for Sun-
day’s service (assorted), if there wasn’t
a euchre-party intervening on Saturday night.
Picnics were held in it when it rained; in
addition there were birthday-parties, election-
meetings and concerts, plain and smoky, and
it was the polling-booth. Once the accordion
which provided the dance music refused to
wheeze, so the organ filled the gap. Some
of the unco guid protested, but they sub-
sided when it was pointed out that the dances
had helped to buy the sacred instrument
and “no one was to be denied the use of it
for a just cause.”
The cabled yarn that Byng’s viscountcy
was held up for 15 months after conferment
because he refused to pay nearly £lOOO in
fees recalls what happened to Frederick
Holder, first Speaker of the Reps., and Alec
Peacock, first Premier of Vic. after Federa-
tion. When they got the K.C.M.G. in 1902
the pair journeyed to Sydney to attend an
investiture ceremony held by Gov.-Gen.
Ilopetoun, and, thinking that they would
have to pay heavy. fees, each (reluctantly)
took along letters of credit for £2OO. Before
going into the ceremony they consulted the
A.D.C. about unloading the ’oof. “Didn’t
you read the bit o’ parchment you got?” he
asked. They admitted they hadn’t done
more than glance at the document. “Well,
if you had waded through it you’d have seen
that the title is a free gift,” said the aide,
as lie flecked a little cigarette ash off his
elegant uniform. The Gourt dress Peacock
bought with the money won’t fit him now.
“Gouger”: From time to time rich speci-
mens of copper are found on the n.-e. shores
and islands of Australia, and puzzle the experts.
Doubtless one reason why they are encount-
ered in strange places is that in the early
days the beche-de-mer vessels discharged the
stuff as ballast. Still, there must have been
large deposits of copper where the stuff was
picked up. The crews were all native, and
wouldn’t have known the metal, and
the white skippers are unlikely to have
guessed at its value, especially as much of the
ore looks like ordinary ironstone. Occasional
samples sent down south for assay have gone
remarkably high. Not long since a nuggety
specimen—not a ballast stone —was picked
up on some hill in the Home Island group by
a native. He handed it to his boss, who had
always told him to bring him any bright
or heavy stone; 12 months later a T.I.
friend sent it to Brisbane for assay. It gave
64 per cent, copper. By that time," of
the native was heavens knows where.


Britannia Lathes
STANDARD LATHES INCLUDE FEED SHAFT 8 AUTOMATIC CROSS FEED
THE BRITANNIA LATHE HAS MANY NOVEL FEATURES EMBODIED IN ITS DESIGN, IN ALL CASES EASE OF
MANIPULATION HAS BEEN FOREMOST IN THE MIND OF THE DESIGNER, e.g.. THE BACK GEAR IS ACTUATED BY
A SINGLE SELF-LOCKING PULL KNOB ON THE FRONT OF THE LATHE, THE LOCKING BOLT IN THE PLATE WHEEL
IS ENGAGED BY MOVING A SMALL ROCKING LEVER, AND THE CHANGE WHEELS CAN BE TAKEN ON OR OFF
WITHOUT USING ANY KIND OF SPANNER, AND WITH THE EMPLOYMENT OF ONE HAND ONLY.
THE SIMPLEST DESIGN OF THIS LATHE IS THE STANDARD SCREW-CUTTING MODEL. TO THIS STANDARD CAN
BE ADDED, EITHER DURING THE ORIGINAL ASSEMBLY OR AT ANY LATER DATE, ADDITIONAL PARTS, MAKING
UP THE VARIOUS MODELS.
wmmmm.
m
Br
■ • n-
-1
■V Y
9
’ . I
< ,<-> . ' .-if 1, . i, f dr.vl*
•• • • • D- ■ •< j jUiHI
: „
h m
■
Vrl
'W- JS
aKBBESmm
m
' ' '
;
m
. w ■
■ -
H 1
«
« 1 I
■■■■ ...
. -
mm
STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS
The Bed is of V design, made of close grain cast-iron, specially seasoned, and of heavy box section fitted with
gap piece.
The Headstock is back-geared and fitted with two adjustable taper roller bearings, arranged to take the thrust
of the mandrel. Conical gunmetal bearings can be supplied if desired. A patented automatic locking
device is employed for fixing the gear bolt and also the change wheels.
The Mandrel is of special steel, machined and ground to a high degree of accuracy, and has a hole 1 fin. diam.
bored throughout.
The Tailstock is of the solid pattern, graduated and arranged to set over for taper turning, having both a quick
locking device as well as the ordinary method.
The Saddle is of sufficient length to ensure great accuracy, combined with ample wearing surface, and is provided
with a table for special work such as milling and boring.
The Slide Rest is fully compound, arranged to set over for taper turning, and is fitted with a patent adjustable
tool holder for altering height of tool.
The Leading Screw is cut with an Acme thread of guaranteed accuracy, a double nut being employed.
The Tray is pressed from sheet metal, thus avoiding any danger of breakage.
The Change Wheels, together with all other gearing, are machine-cut from the solid by the most up-to-date
methods.
Equipment. A full set of Change Wheels, Face-plate, Catch-plate, Travelling Steady, pair of Plain Centres,
set of Spanners and 2-speed overhead.
Gear Changes. The standard Gear Box is fitted with three changes of speed, the wheels being of steel cut from
the solid, whilst the Norton type Gear Box gives 33 changes of speed.
Call in and Inspect the Britannia Lathe
at your convenience
SOLE AGENTS:
WILLIAM ADAMS € COMPANY
- LI M ITED«_/
SYDNEY 175 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE.. Edward & Mary Streets.
PERTH.... ... 33-35 King Street.
MELBOURNE.,., 521-523 Collins Street
ADELAIDE. .157 Waymoisth Street
NEWCASTLE.I7 Bolton Street


BROWNING AUTOMATIC
fds
f
ds
£9/9/-
POST FREE.
New Improved Model
12 Gauge.
5 Shots as fast as you can pull the trigger.
HERE IS THE IDEAL GUN. Quick as lightning. Easy to handle. Can
be taken apart in a few seconds \ and is ABSOLUTEL\ RELIABLE and
hits harder than a double-barrel Shot Gun. There are no restrictions in
the use of these guns.
Va
LTD
PTY
Gun & Cartridge
Makers,
318 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne
Welcome the Coming—Speed the Parting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S BITTER ALE,
Ask for Them by Name —Keep in a Cool Spot.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON. [3
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
With Whitta scratched, Vaals (7 to 4)
was reckoned the best of the bunch in the
Flying Handicap at Randwiek on the second
day of the A. J. C. Anniversary meeting.
The idea was that the Challenge Stakes race
would enable him to turn the tables on
Greenline (5 to 1), the three-year-old hav-
ing been strung up and the other “short of a
gallop.” Greenline, however, finished a
good second, while Vaals was beaten out of a
place; Killarney, getting in the last run, de-
feated the Greenstead gelding, who made a
gallant effort under his 9st. Chrystal (5 to
2) was third and Amounis, mud-fat and
unbacked, a surprisingly good fourth.
Another favorite went down in the Adrian
Knox Stakes —Black Duchess, who started
at 7to 4 on. She looked a certainty when
she ran up to the leader, Ascalon (10 to 1),
with a furlong and a bit to go, but Toohey
brought Justify (12 to 1) along on the out-
side and his mount beat the black filly by
a head, Ascalon being third. Many backers
were not pleased with Bartle’s riding of the
favorite, their impression being that the
young man was too confident. Bartle’s own
statement is that Black Duchess was afraid
of the whip (Toohey’s that is, for he him-
self did not carry one) and would not pass
Justify on that account. At all events,
Justify shaped like a good little filly. By
Archery—Taringamutu, she is trained by
Dan Lewis for J. J. Leahy—a very success-
ful combination this season.
Honan (7 to 2) was favorite for the Anni-
versary Handicap, but Tibbie (9 to 2) ran
him close, and Don Moon (6 to 1), Lady
Constance (8 to 1), Ulah (10 to 1), Vallino
and Firefly (each 14 to 1) were also in the
market. As in the Holiday Handicap, Honan
tried to lead all the way, but Vallino was
alongside him as they turned into the
straight, and Don Moon and Tibbie joined
them about a furlong from home. Tibbie
lasted best, and amidst a great outburst of
cheering (renewed when Toohey rode her
back for the weighing in) she won by half
a length from Don Moon, who was three-
quarters of a length in front of Honan, with
Vallino a close fourth ; the time was 2min.
31sec. —exceedingly fast. Had there been no
Vallino in the field to worry him over the
last half-mile, Honan would probably have
succeeded; but even his supporters recog-
nised the merit of Tibbie’s achievement.
Lean, hardy and as game as a pebble, she is
a splendid advertisement for the Australian-
bred horse.
Blather (7 to 1) won the Novice Handi-
cap like a really good horse, and Sion (12
to 1) atoned for his disappointing gallop
on the first day by taking the Highweight
Handicap. He was afterwards sold for
1600 guineas, and must be reckoned a cheap
horse as horses go nowadays. The judge s
decision in the Highweight Handicap in-
furiated backers of Lady Buckinbar (5 to
1), who reckoned that Matthews' mare was
first instead of third—King Val, a 20-to-l
chance, was certainly second —-but this Page
is not going to argue against it.
Jjc * *
Bunkum (Humbug—Ballet Queen), though
a rather squibby-looking chestnut, is no
mean sprinter when the conditions suit him.
He found them to his liking in the Flying
Handicap at Roseliill, his home course, on
Saturday, and, nicely handled by young Lilly-
man, got up in time to beat Golden Voice
and Cadenza, who battled out an exciting
finish with him. It was a very good betting
race; Bunkum was backed from tens to
fives and Golden Voice from tens to fours,
while Less Noise, Prairie Belle and Green-
horn also had a lot of backing at fives. Lin-
atic, a 5-to-2 favorite for the 10-furlong
handicap, duly arrived, but his task was
lightened for him by Spaghetti (7 to 1)
and St. Eaton (5 to 1) fighting for the lead
most of the way. Ridden a bit more
patiently, Spaghetti could scarcely have
lost; as it was he was only beaten by a
head; the unlucky Lovebox (7 to 11 was
third. Rernesk (10 to 1), ridden by Bartle,
accounted for the favorites in the Carling-
ford Mile, but Lady Clara (9 to 2) and King
Cyllene (4 to 1) made the finish interest-
ing. Her Queensland owner was present to
see the old mare win, but he could not have
backed her much.
“A LUCKY FOUR.”
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Park Stakes: Sweet Auburn; next, St.
Bees.
Flying Handicap: Bunkum; next, Golden
Grist.
Canterbury Handicap: Blather; next,
Poilena.
Highweight Handicap: Golden Grist or
Reonui; next, Prairie Belle.
Campsie Handicap: Royal Sun; next,
King Cyllene.
* * * *
Those enthusiastic followers of racing who
had hailed Sans Culotte as another Yalicare
crashed at Moonee Valley on Saturday, when
the Woorak filly was beaten easily by Trans-
lator in the William Reid Stakes, a w.f.a.
affair with penalties and allowances, for
which the club provided the nice purse of
£llOO. The filly was at odds-on throughout
the betting; at the close 2 to 1 was demanded
by McShortodds, Translator (6 to 1) being
the only horse seriously backed against
her. Second to Rubus for a few furlongs,
the favorite passed him in a few strides
and looked a good thing as she came into
the straight. However, she weakened when
Translator tackled her, and the Linacre geld
ing won by 24 lengths, Highland being four
lengths further back. Translator, who had
been winning with big weights, appreciated
the drop to Bst. 51b. He would have had
to give Sans Culotte more than 91b. in a
handicap, but he defeated her by a lot more.
The time, lmin. 14|sec. was slow, but the
track was heavy.
Scanlon, Translator’s jockey, completed a
double when he got Impartial (6 to 1) first
past the post in the Warrook High weight.
Potentate (7 to 1) was second and Broad-
blade (3 to 1), third. The winner, who is
by Questor —Fairwind, is a rather promising
colt; he is in the same stable as Textile.
Lewis’s riding of Lady Tattler was easily
the feature of the Caldermeade Handicap, for
which Lou Robertson’s gelding Mars was
favorite at 6 to 4, the veteran’s mount being
at 9 to 4. Imported Beppinsan (4 to 1)
tried to lead all the way, and when she
turned for home with an advantage it looked
as if she was going to succeed, but Lewis,
getting every ounce out of Lady Tattler,
lifted her home a neck to the good; ,Tack
Shepherd (12 to 1) was third. Lady Tattler
is a four-year-old mare by Spearhead—Queen
Rossip. She is owned by V.R.C. chairman
L. K. S. Mackinnon and trained by Charlie
( 'nnlk r.
“Mars”: Photographing the finish (B.
12/l/’2B) was given a trial by tihe Port
Adelaide club a few years ago. From a
specially-built platform a man took a moving
picture of the ’orses flashing past the post.
Hastily developed., the result was thrown on
a sheet in a special room for the benefit of
the committee. Things worked well for a
few meetings; then, without any reason be-
ing publicly assigned, the innovation was
dropped.
* * * *
“Jack Point” : When a country horse called
Soulton made the all-conquering High Syce
go for his life to win the Queensland Derby,
it was genei’ally considered to be more or
less of a fluke. The animal has since proved
it was nothing of the kind; he carried off
the chief handicap at the Bananaland Turf
Club’s meeting in distinguished style, the
only one to make a race of it being another
Downs horse in Snowman. By imported
Paddington (who has sired some good
winners with very limited opportunities at
the stud), from a great mare of a dozen
years ago in Evelyn Soult, Soulton possesses
plenty of staying blood, and as he has been
freely entered in all the important autumn
handicaps, including the Sydney Cup, it is
probable that Sydney racegoers will see him
shortly. High Syce will also go south, all
being well, his owners having conceived the
notion that the gold cup presented by George
Windsor would look well on their respective
sideboards. The question of who shall have
the bauble for the first three months has
been deferred pending more definite develop-
ments.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Charlie Purdy, the young Auckland ex-
amateur, scaling 9st. 7Jib., met the English
boxer Ernie Izzard (9st. 7Jlb.) at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night before a moderate
crowd, and gave him a good beating in at
least 10 of the 15 rounds. Yet all lie got
was a draw. The Maorilander “made” the
fight by his continual and determined attack;
liis defence in the open was clean and clever
and ihe hit fast and true. He erected a
mound under each of the Englishman’s eyes
at a very early stage, and though lie bled
at the nose himself in the fourth round it
did not cause him any disability or distress.
Izzard is undoubtedly a good man and was
in splendid condition —he needed to be. In-
fighting is his long suit, and in that in the
earlier rounds he had the better of the
Maorilander; but he must be made to drop
“the rabbiter,” which he used in many of
the close-in encounters. Mild reprimands
will not suffice. It was a fast and scientific
battle and they should be matched again.
>1: * * *
“Maunga”: One reason advanced by
Maorilanders for Tom lleoney’s upward flight
in America (B. 25/.1/’2B) is that he has
got over the habit of “pulling” his punches.
They maintain that after Heeney knocked
Cyril Whittaker out, with tragic results, at
Auckland, and sent Brian McLeary to Slum-
berland for a fortnight at Christchurch, Tom
became diffident about letting his wallops go
for all they’re worth. Still, he failed to
make anything of the sort manifest when he
outed big O’Sullivan in nine rounds at
Palmerston North. The truth about Tom is
that he is awkwardly clever and very game ;
and, given anything like a suitable sitting-
shot, he can scr.d in a soporiferous crack.
Sharkey evidently found this out very early
in their mill.
The Ins and Outs
After losing Gregory, Jackson and
Andrews for 31, N.S.W. collared the
dreaded Victorian bowling at Sydney Cricket
Ground, and had 533 the board when
the first innings ended. Kippax (134) and
Morgan (110) stopped the rot. Kippax’s
innings, restrained at first, developed into
one of his usual brilliant displays as the
bowling tired, and Morgan played the knock
of his career. There was another great
stand by Oldfield (101) and Nicholls (110),
the Hawkesbury giant batting like a
potential champion. Young A’Beckett
bowled magnificently through the long
innings, ending with 6 for 119. Above fast-
medium, lie has an easy run-up and delivery
and sometimes seemed to swing both ways.
Blackie was never impressive, while Ellis
was very uncertain behind the _ sticks.
Gregory, opening the first over against the
Victorians, showed a lot of his old pace,
and the crowd yelled itself speechless when
he rattled Ponsford’s stumps in his third
over. Hendry joined Woodfull, and the
pair took the score to 2 for 203 before
Woodfull was caught in the slips by Nicholls,
off McNamee, for a steadily-made 94.
Hendry and Ryder carried on till the ex-
Welshman went for 138—a capital innings.
Rigg- was splendidly caught in the slips by
Nicholls off Gregory, who was keeping up
his pace well. Little Scaifecame in and bat-
ted neatly while Ryder laid the wood on.
Mailev got the big fellow l.b.w. with a
straight break when he had made 106 in
taking fashion. Scaife batted on attractively,
but none of the others could stay with him,
and he finished with 35 n. 0., the total being
422—a very good showing, all things con-
sidered. Oidfield did some fine work behind
the sticks ; he caught Ellis magnificently off
Nicholls, who took 2 wickets for 103. Greg-
ory was something like his old self, and his
4 for 81 were thoroughly earned. Mailey
collected 3 for 128.
Resuming on Monday morning, the Welsh-
men had lost 4 for 88 at the luncheon ad-
journment. Jackson made 44 and Andrews
32. There was still a chance of the Vies,
pulling the match out of the fire, but not a
good chance.
(Continued on page J/l.)
THE BOUNDING BASQUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Jean Borotra, ‘the bounding Basque,’ met with
an enthusiastic reception.”
There’s Boussus the boyisih, a Breton,
If features for anything go.
Brisk Brugnon’s a bird that is met on
The beach at Boulogne—or Bordeaux.
Where balls by the racquet are smitten
And tumult of rallies resounds
Borotra the bold, the hard-bitten,
Is Basque—by his bounds.
He jumps like the chamois when presses
The hunter, intent on his pelt;
He streaks as the springbok progresses
O’er Africa’s shimmering veldt.
Our ’roo is a flier when keeping
Ahead of the hounds is his task,
But for riotous, rhythmical leaping
I’ll bet on the Basque.
Bill Tilden, mayhap, is more solid
And Brookes played a wilier game
’Mid champions who smashed and who
volleyed
Their way to the apex of fame.
But when tongues of the groundlings are
ringing
With the prowess of gods on the greens,
For sheer and resilient springing
The biscuit is Jean’s!
Were the goats of the mountain his mentors
Where peaks Pyrenean are set?
Saw one ever such skips from the centres
Of courts to the side-lines or net?
That the laurels he’s won he shall keep years
In reason he surely may ask,
For all years to him are as leap-years
Who bounds like a Basque.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


' , \
'■Wl I
\ )
“
L/
SF
I rn
y •,
f /
f
5
/i ?
W///////Z
A
t i
Y •
//mm,//A
‘^'"m////M
<Y''k
, v l
r
1/
3
W§
3
1
r/
■y •
§
V
t:
•/✓/"""
’""///////,
/;«
UjU
;//"
/// ‘
'w>,.
i
0
0
i
o
h
t
•a
\
In the beginning, Goodyear
was by force of discovery
the greatest name in
rubber. To-day, by force
of utility, Goodyear is still
the greatest name in the
industry. Goodyear’s ser-
vice to the public has been
born of research and
development—beginning
with refinements of the
early pneumatic tyre and
ending, momentarily, with
building the new safe,
tractive, slow wearing
Goodyear Balloon with
the new type All-Weather
Tread.
“Goodyear’s Greatest Tyre ”


A
855
&
ML
/•V
a
v
<* r -z
it
1
Sr;
m
f ave^
uPtctMCr
The exceptionally full, rich,
sympathetic tone of the Wur-
litzer, its flexible and respon-
sive action and solid lasting
construction put it in a class
apart from ordinary piano-
players.
The exclusive Wurlitzer metal
action, a notable achievement,
ensures perfect performance
—proof against climatic varia-
tions.
Demonstrations will be gladly given or pur-
chase terms arranged by any of the following
agents :
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Factory Representatives—Parker, Blau and
Co., Ltd., S O’Connell Street, Sydney.
NEWCASTLE:
M. Light & Son, Ltd., Newcastle and Cessnock.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
The Australian Implement and House Fur-
nishing Co., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Musgrove’s, Ltd., Murray Street, Perth
TASMANIA:
J. H. Wilson & Co Pty., Ltd., 203 Charles St.,
Launceston; Findlay’s Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
VICTORIA:
Myer’s Emporium, Ltd., Melbourne.
Where any difficulty is experienced in
procuring a “Wurlitzer,” communicate direct
with the factory representatives:
PARKER, BLAU & CO., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY;
308 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
The Ins and Outs
“Nark”: Snarling on the part of N.S.W.
cricketers against the now-tamous Queens- .
land wicket still goes on, in spite of the ;
report of the Board of Control inspectors. '
S. M. Herald, in an article —-unsigned on
this occasion—piously hoped that the wicket
prepared for the Victorian match at Sydney
C. G. would be better than the “strip of petri-
fied turf” on which N.S.W. was defeated in
Brisbane. The Welshmen failed as ignomini-
ously against Queensland in their second
knock on their own ground as they had done
in Queensland, but nobody seems to have
thought of blaming the wicket.
“Gabba”: Queenslanders are not satisfied
with the performances of their State XI
this season, well as it played against N.S.W.
It is suggested that the example of South
Aus. and Wcstralia should be followed, and
a coach engaged, with special directions to
teach his charges how to play fast bowling.
Some years ago the Q.C.A. had S. J. Red-
grave, the old N.S.W. and Queensland all-
rounder, as a coach. lie proved very suc-
cessful, the State team improving out of
sight under his eye; it beat N.S.W. and Vic-
toria in the one season, besides making a
good showing against an English team. Red-
grave is still playing senior cricket in Bris-
bane, and there is an idea of reinstating him
as coach. Why he was ever dropped is
a mystery.
* * # *
“Glenclg” : In spite of the hard work he
has to do Clarrie Grimmett has had a re-
markable run of success since, fed up with
the undiscerning Vic. selectors, he went to
South Aus. He has now taken 129 wickets
in Sheffield Shield matches, 120 of them
for S.A. In his five Sheffield Shield seasons
he has averaged 30.58 runs per wicket; lie
has also averaged 27.2 with the bat and has
dismissed a number of opponents by smart
work in the field. Grimmett’s best full year
with the ball was 1924-25, when he took 28
wickets at 24.74. This season has -been his
best with the bat, his figures being 42.85.
He has never averaged below 20 for South
Aus.
* * * :*c
“Amateur Pro.”: Actual play in the tour
of Maoriland by the Australian XI led by
Vic Richardson will begin with a match
against Otago at Dunedin on Feb. 17; the
closing game will be against North Otago at
Oamaru on April 3 and 4. Two three-day
Test matches will be played at Auckland
and Dunedin, one following immediately on
the other, a somewhat weird arrangement.
The minor matches will be confined to two
days, and the games against the Provinces
to three. The superstitious may find com-
fort in the fact that 13 games will be played
in all.
* * >;: *
“Aigburth”: It is curious to read that
Lords is suffering from a lack of big matches.
Because of the unattractive fare provided
the M.C.C. is losing membership—once a
highly-valued distinction. When the Aus-
tralians are not in England the only big
games at Lords are those between Oxford
and Cambridge, the Gents, and the Players,
and the Eton and Harrow lads; for the
rest, the ground is given over to the Middle-
sex county fixtures, and these, apparently,
are now looked on as small beer. The M.C.C.
has resolved to move with the times and put
on a greater number of first-class games in
which the club itself will take part. As a
preliminary, it will pay a retainer of £2OO
a year to a dozen, professionals, on whose
services it wall have first call.
Racquet and Bawl
The first appearance of the French players
in the Australian tennis championships at
Ruslicutter Bay on Saturday drew a fairly
good crowd to the Sydney courts, though
there seemed to be plenty of vacant chairs not-
withstanding the management’s last-minute
determination to reduce the ridiculously high
admission charges. Generally, the trio came
up to expectations, Borotra, though just off
the Melbourne mail-train, being particu-
larly attractive to watch. Gate considera-
tions induced the management to compromise
on the alleged footfault question, so all went
merrily, save that one super-sensitive umpire
got the hump and refused to ump. Borotra’s
opponent was Fitzgerald (N.S.W.) ; Boussus
met the young Westralian champion Ford ;
Brugnon was drawn against Coram
(N.S.W.). All three Frenchmen won in
straight sets. The best battle of the day was
the junior singles, which Crawford won after a
stiff tussle with Turnbull, the very promis-
ing South Australian, 10-8, 6-4.; with
Whiteman, Crawford also won the junior
doubles from the Victorian pair, Cattanach
and Frankenberg. Daphne Akhurst captured
the singles championship from Victorian
Esna Boyd, 7-5, 6-2, reversing last year’s
verdict, which, in its turn, reversed that of
the year before.
“Foot Fault”: When Jean Borotra arrived
in Sydney he flabbergasted a lot of the
tennis quidnuncs by asserting that women
could not play the game for nuts in com-
parison with men. He put it more politely,
of course, but that was the gist of what he
said; and he instanced the lamentable show-
ing made by Suzanne Lenglen in private
matches with Lacoste. Borotra was equally
emphatic in demolishing the theory of cer-
tain Sydney “experts” that young Bous-
sus is merely a promising lad. .“He has
arrived,” said the Basque enthusiastically.
In his recently-published “Match Play and
Spin of the Ball” William Tilden supports
Borotra on both points. “There are a hun-
dred players among the men,” he writes,
“who could defeat Suzanne Lenglen or Helen
Wills by whatever score they desired.” And
he tells how, just off the boat, lie himself
played the Lenglen a set in Paris and beat
her 6-0. As to Boussus, Tilden testifies that
the young fellow is the possessor of a
splendid tennis brain as well as a champion’s
stroke equipment, and acclaims him as a
certainty for the French “Davis Cup squad.”
“Amateur Pro.”: In an hour when the
English lawn-tennis authorities have for-
bidden players who claim to be amateurs to
write about the game for pay, and when
Australian cricket and football authorities
are taking the same course, it seems anoma-
lous that persons controlling or purporting
to control Australian tennis should remain
blind to the spirit of the English ruling,
even if they observe the letter. Since the
English L.T.A. took up its praiseworthy
attitude the player-writer has not been con-
spicuous in Australia, though by no means
A RUB O' THE GREEN.
WIFE: “Would it put you off your game if you took baby round with you, George?”
extinct. But the public has had no sur-
cease from the published forecasts and sur-
mises of persons connected with tennis in an
official capacity. Presumably these gentle-
men receive remuneration for their writings.
If so, can it be honestly urged that they
have any more claim to amateurism than the
player of tennis who is declared a profes-
sional if he writes an account of a tennis
tournament and is paid for it? Some of
these self-constituted Australian authorities
consider themselves the last word. One of
them recently thundered that if Blank was
appointed, to a certain position he (the
thunderer) would have something to say
about something Blank did (or omitted to
do) years ago. Blank does not appear to
have arrived at the expected stage of
appointment, so nothing more has been
heard of the feud, whatever it was.
“Side Line”: Lacoste, the head of the
brilliant band of tennis-players who took the
Davis Cup to France last season, also an-
nexed the American championship, which is
to be played for shortly. Business engage-
ments will prevent his going to the States
to defend the title, and the probability is
that Tilden wall regain it. Lacoste, however,
will be seen at Wimbledon and in the French
championships, and another series of duels
between the Gaul and Gerald Patterson
should provide electric tennis. This meeting,
with the exhibitions of Brugnon and Borotra
in Australia, should give us a good idea of
our ultimate chances against France in the
challenge round for the Davis Cup, suppos-
ing that the Australian team gets that far—
as, with a bit of luck, it should certainly
do.
* -■>! *
“Iconoclast” : I am intrigued to read that
a Victorian country tennis club has received
permission from the potentates who govern
these things to charge entrance “per racket”
and not “per player.” The report is rather
obscurely worded, but the innovation pro-
bably means that those offensive swankers
who' swagger on to tennis grounds carrying
anything from six to a dozen racquets will
have to pay for their “side” in future. The
idea is copied from the practice of leading
players, who may certainly need a fresh
implement now and then as an excuse for
muffing an easy shot, the change of weapon
conveying to the mind of the awed spec-
tator that it was the racquet and not the
user that was to blame. But the practice
is quite out of drawing as far as the sub-
urban player is concerned, for the posses-
sion of an entire racquet factory could not
afford any reasonable excuse for the sort
of lawn tennis he plays. It is to be hoped
that the excellent innovation of Violet Town
(Vic.)—for that is the name of the revo-
lutionary hamlet —will be extended through-
out Australia.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: There would seem to be
a grand opportunity for golfing crows . and
gohannas up Moree (N.S.W.) way, if a
local writer is to be believed. An enthusiast
there rides down to the links every morning
carrying a large bag of golf-balls. These he
plays across a creek to a green on the other
side ; when he has emptied his bag he goes
across the creek and plays them back again,
using different clubs in the process. What
happens when a ball lands in the creek is not
stated. The caddies and other small boys
up that way must be a model lot. _lt is
easy to foretell what would happen if the
Moree altruist tried the same methods at
Sydney’s Moore Park municipal links. As
soon as the player emptied his bag he would
have to go into town for another supply.
He * ♦
“The McHaggis”: The wisdom of the old
golf precept, "Don’t press”— i.e., don’t try
and hit too hard—has been exemplified by
a recently-invented apparatus for testing
the speed of a swinging club-head and its
actual velocity at the time of striking the
ball. A series of stiff wires is arranged, and
the club-head brushes these in turn as it
passes, each wire electrically recording the
moment of impact and thus enabling the
speed of the club-head to be judged. The
gadget shows that “pressing” actually re-
tards the club, and that a greater velodity
and a longer ball are obtained by the natural
swing, which was what the patriarchs
were preaching before electrical-recording
machines were invented.
* * * *
“Colonel Damurize”: The Americans,
having regimented golf, are finding, as others
have done, that that sort of thing palls, so
they have introduced what they call “improve-
ments.” Golf would seem to have enough
hectic moments for most people as it is, but
a nation that is addicted to Tabasco sauce
is capable of anything. The new game is
known as “Bridge golf.” It is played as a
four-baller, and the partners bid on the basis
of their aggregate scores for the hole. For
instance, at a hole bogeyed at 6 a pair might
bid 12, and the opposition 10, or the latter
might double and be redoubled. The play
is for so much a point, as in a Bridge rub-
ber. What they think of the innovation at
St. Andrew’s Old Nick only knows, and the
chances are that he would be ashamed to
repeat it.
* * * *
“Torrens”: lvooyonga (S.A.) is justlv
renowned for its appointments, and it is now
adding to these a feature unusual in golf
clubs. This is the sinking of a 400 ft. bore
to supply water for the course and greens.
Hitherto, this has been done from shallow
bores, but the water in these is too full of
magnesia to suit the constitution of the local
grass, and special manuring and top-dress-
ing have been necessary to counteract this.
Costs have been high, and it is reckoned that
it will be cheaper in the long run to pay
£lOOO for putting down the bore.
* * * *
“Colonel Damurize” : An Australian writer
on golf has recently been animadverting on
the ignorance of golf players concerning the
rules. This is universal; I doubt whether
there is a player outside the Rules Com-
mittee of St. Andrew’s who can give a
definite reading of the rules and rulings.
Inside the committee, they avoid the exposure
of their ignorance by giving the first ruling
that comes into their heads on any point
submitted to them. Thus the rules grow
more chaotic, while the committee retains
its reputation for infallibility. Take the
case of Angus McHaggis and Dugal Doch-
andorris of the Clachanfeecon club. One
of the fairways crosses a railway. Angus
dropped a ball on the line, and it jambed
against one of the “chairs” which support
the rails. Noting a fast train approaching,
he had to decide whether to lose two strokes
by lifting the ball or allow the new gutty
(it cost a shilling in those days) to be cut
to pieces by the engine wheels. While he
was considering the train settled the question.
The company callously refused to pay com-
pensation or even the funeral expenses.
Footbrawl
“Front Row”: The Waratahs have come
through a strenuous tour with the loss of
only five matches; the last, against London,
resulted in a scoreless draw. Three of the five
should have been won; a replay of the Ox-
ford, Pontypool and West of France games
would see the betting 5 to 1 on the tourists.
That against Scotland was lost by two points
merely, with Scotland all out in defence at
the finish. The frozen grounds of the clos-
ing matches seem to have taken a lot out
of the team. This raises the question
whether such tours should not be curtailed
in future. Thirty-one games in a short
season, with lashings of train and boat
travelling thrown , in, and plenty of tough
opposition to boot, are too many for any side.
British teams in Australia have never been
asked to play more than 21 matches, many
of them against very soft sides. That was
the record of the Mullineux team in 1899 ;
Stoddart’s, on the other hand, played 1?.
games, the 1904 side 14, and the Anglo-
Welsh team of 1908 nine only. There is no
doubt, too, that the Australians have met
much tougher combinations than any of their
predecessors. The quality of British Rugby
is now higher than ever it was.
(Continued on page 42.)


Babies
thrive on
it is so
nourishina and
easy to digest
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists a, Stores
mu
B
E 9
Stay at
“SCQTTS”
Melbourne
n
■}
S 3
atm
when you visit Melbourne
The appointments throughout this
modern residential hotel are com-
plete, the service and cuisine
faultless, and the central city lo-
cation of the hotel itself the acme
of convenience.
Inclusive Tariff by Day or
Bed and Breakfast Rate.
Suites on Application.
Tariff Cards Posted on Request
Telegrams: '‘SCOTTS’ Maloourne
UNRIVALLED Accommo-
dation at this Modern
Hotel. Rebuilt at an expendi-
ture of £lOO,OOO.
HOTEL WINDSOR
Three minutes from Circular
Quay and Central Railway
Station, in the heart of Theatre-
land.
MODERATE TARIFF.
Hot & Cold Water in Every Room.
Tel: City 6907, MA 187 J,.
Corner Castlereagh and Park
Streets, Sydney.
Telephone reservations made.
Car and Cycle
“11. Skelter”: Undeterred by published
warnings that record-breaking on the roads
might conceivably lead to a murder charge,
H. J. Beitli has established another record
(his second) for the run from Sydney to
Melbourne. Driving a Chrysler 70 which has
become famous on road and track, he re-
duced Buckley’s time by 9 minutes. His
figures for the 576 miles were lOhr. 42min.,
Sydney being left at 4.30 a.m. and Melbourne
reached at 3.12 pan. The average speed was
53.83 m.p.li.
He He He He
“Whizz”: Australia will soon be able to
see with its own eyes what Major Segrave’s
famous Sunbeam looks like. The car that
reached 203.792 m.p.li., with its twin 1000-
li.p. engines and its Dunlop tyres, is now on
its way to Melbourne, and it will come on
to Sydney in due course.
# * * *
“Garry”: J. M. White of Philadelphia
has spent about £SOOO on a car
with three 12-cyl. 500 li.p. Liberty motors.
These are stuck one in front and two behind
the driver, and connected, without clutch
and with only one gear, to the rear wheels.
A bonnet covers the front motor and the
other two go bare, and there is no attempt
at stream-lining the body. With half as
much power again as Segrave’s Sunbeam,
the contraption ought to be able to move
spryly, but it’s not likely to break records
in its present state.
He He He Hi
“Alick”: “Chevroford” (B. 12/l/’2B) has
been journeying through the drought-stricken
Mallee, where the wheat team passes not.
Should he revisit it in a normal year when
they are carting wheat he will, if he is a
gentleman, apologise to the roads boards.
Then, even the Mallee car-drivers, fanatically
careful of tyres as they are, take to the
metal tracks on which “barrels of money
have been thrown away.”
* * ' * *
“Sprocket”: One of the most unusual
commercial tours ever undertaken was the
circuit of the world by a team of B.S.A.
experts, who rode their motor-cycles, except
at the sea crossings, and sold them as they
went along. The last lap was entered when
live party arrived at Capetown from Buenos
Ayres. Twenty-one of the principal coun-
tries in Europe, Asia, Malaya, Northern
Africa and the Americas were traversed,
three and a half months being Spent in Aus-
tralia. The tourists used the same B.S.A.
machines throughout the tour.
* * tt *
“Speedway”: Australian motor-cycle en-
thusiasts are wondering whether it will be
possible to get W. L. Handley over here
when he has finished his present tour of
South Africa. Handley is one of the most
prominent performei’s on the track in Eng-
land. having won many motor-Gycle events
at Brooklands; lie is a mighty road-rider as
well. Hope is entertained of inducing him to
show his paces at the Sydney and Melbourne
speedways.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Vic. delegates to the Aus-
tralian Amateur Cyclists’ Association started
a heap of trouble when they voted against
sending a road rider to the Olympiad. Sup-
porters of the Australian amateur champion,
“Fatty” Lamb, asked for a special meeting
of the State organisation to consider the
question of taking a postal vote on the sub-
ject in Queensland and Viotoria —N.S.W.
was omitted because its delegates very sport-
ingly plumped for recommending the great
Vic. rider to the Olympic selectors. The
special meeting was held in Melbourne last
week, and after a good old Donnybrook the
request for a postal vote was thrown out
amid tumult and shouting. Also it was
affirmed by 18 votes to 16 that if Lamb went
to Amsterdam it would only be over the Vic.
union’s corpse. But the Lambites are not
going to take the rebuff lying down.
“Flinders”: From statements made at a
meeting of the Vic. Amateur Union
last week it would w seem that Lamb’s offence
lies in being insufficiently obsequious to Vic.
officials. One gentleman stated heatedly that
the champion had absented himself from the
hotel in Sydney “without permission,” and
had refused to be massaged by the official
rubber. Also he had not attended to take
the odth of allegiance to,amateurism. Asked
whether it wasn’t a fact that Lamb’s clothes
had been tied in knots at the pub and hard-
boiled eggs put in his bed, the gentleman did
not reply. Lamb is only a lad, and a pleas-
anter specimen of a young Australian it
would be hard to find. The fact that he has
refused handsome offers to turn professional
shows the sort of fellow he is. One is accus-
tomed to find cattishness among old-woman-
ish controllers of the minor forms of sport,
such as tennis, but its exhibition among
cyclists, who have some claim to rank as rteal
a-thletes, is irritating.
Miscellaneous
“The Amateur Urger”: What has been
described as the first failure of a tin-hare
co. in England makes remarkable reading.
Though the concern had £12,000 in sub-
scribed capital, and a “mechanical director,”
whose job it was to steer the tin hare on
its round for a salary of £650 a year, it
had not acquired a hare. Indeed, accord-
ing to the liquidator, the co.’s only assets
were four depressed dogs. And anything
more depressed than a second-class grey-
hound in reduced circumstances is not to
be found inside the boundaries of creation.
* * * *
“Minto” : What is the biggest trot of heads
or tails recorded in an organised two-up
school? I once saw an Italian head ’em 18
times, but the biggest hand I’ve bumped
occurred in the old Engine-street school,
Sydney ; one Spider turned up the bright ones
21 times in succession. I haven’t had the
misfortune to witness a greater number of
outs than 18 straight tails, although I have
heard of cases where they ran on into the
twenties.
# * * *
“R.C.L.”: A propos of accomplished A.I.F.
farriers (B. 5/l/’2B), I know one who made
a billiard-table, using tape about lin. wide
for the cushions. The improvisation was re-
markably true for play. Incidentally, A.
W. Winter, the Olympic hop, step and jump
man, was our champion at billiards, and
provided entertainment with six-cushion
cannon tricks and the like.
* * * *
“Shell”: The return match between
Albert Barry and Australia’s Major Good-
sell seems to have been definitely arranged.
The race will be rowed in England on a
date yet to be fixed: in the meantime
Goodsell’s trainer, C. Matterson, is coming
back to Australia to arrange for the build-
ing of a new shell for the ex-cliampion,
among other things. It is more than likely
that one of GoodseU’s principal backers,
one of the last of the old-time supporters
of professional sculling, will go back with
Matterson to witness the race.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: One of the least known but
finest sports to be obtained near Melbourne
is canoeing. The Yarra is synonymous in
the public nose with smells, but actually it
provides over 30 miles of clear, navigable
water, with sufficiently angry rapids here
and there to make the navigation exciting.
The river can muster a fair fleet of light
craft, and an annual event is the 10-mile
race of the Vic. Amateur Canoe Association
from Heidelberg towards the city. This
year the race was won by Lucke and Taylor,
of the Fairfield club. They covered the
distance in the surprising time of one hour
264 sec.
He He He
“Burgee” : Yachting history was made by
the Sydney-owned Norn when it won the
Sayonara Cup, a challenge series of three
races between Sydney and Melbourne craft.
It was the first occasion on which the affair
was held in Sydney; the trophy must be
competed for in the challenged party’s
waters. The Victorians formerly annexed
HARRY HOP MAN, one of the three
tennis-players definitely chosen for the
Davis Cup team.
it year after year. In the early days of
the event it was sailed without a time allow-
ance for boats of smaller rating, but when
the Culwalla 111. raced in Hobson’s Bay
time allowance was claimed, the races being
held under protest pending the decision of
the English Royal Yacht Club. This was in
favor of N.S.W., and Culwalla was awarded
the cup. There was some feeling over the
matter, and no challenge was forthcoming
from the Victorians until the present year.
H« He H« He
“Booroodabin” : The first batch of, Austra-
lian swimming championships concluded in
Brisbane with Westralia heading the list
for the Ivieran Shield with 2 wins and 2
seconds. N.S.W. had 2 wins, 1 second and
2 thirds; Queensland 1 win, 2 seconds and
1 third, and Victoria 1 third. “Bruslier”
Jones (440 yards) and “Scotty” Fowder
(high dive) notched Westralia’s major
points, while Reg Grier won the 220 yards
for Queensland, beating Jones, who had de-
feated him in the 440. Young Unbehaun, of
Westralia, made a fine showing in the junior
100, but was narrowly beaten in 02sec. by
J. Jacobs, the Albury lad. The champion-
ships are to be continued in Sydney.
BILLY DUNCAN, the leading Vic. jockey.
“Wysaac Alton” : Isn’t it about time fish-
ing competitions were judged on the number
or size of edible fish caught? A party of
S.A. anglers recently held a competition for
two trophies: one for the largest fish caught
during four hours, the other for the greatest
number landed. All the mugs—l was one —
went after edible fish. To our disgust, a
person who “knew something” put on the
scales a huge tillawurtie, absolutely in-
edible, and was handed a pair of razors in
a case; his mate tipped out a sugar-bag of
toadies, weedics and other stuff that
even a shag won’t eat, and held out his hand
for 50 cigars. At our next meeting I’m going
to propose that in future competitions any
member who sneaks off by himself to catch
a piece of live offal like a tillawurtie, just
because they’re big and easy to catch, or
who goes up to a salt swamp where any
kid with a bent pin can catch dozens of little
toadfish, should either be disqualified or com-
pelled to eat his catch raw. I’d have got
those cigars with my 34 whiting, flathead and
salmon if it hadn’t been for that unsports-
manlike cow with his sack of toadfish.
* * * *
“Billy the Goose”: I was on the right
lay w’en I tole yer a little w’ile back that
I’d be givin’ the girls a treat in Pitt-
street before long. That little joke with
the goats at Townsville come orf, an’ I’m
orl set ter start a tear-down with the fly-
flats w’en I strikes Sydney agin. The G.R.A.
up this way ’as accepted an invertashun ter
send a string o’ goats down south ter race
at a carnival w’ot the Young Australyer
League is ’oldin’ on Sydney Sports Ground
in Febrooar.t, an’ I’m cornin’ down with
the mob as publieerty-agent, that bein’ the
easiest way uv gettin’ bronzo without workin’
for it. I’m relyin’ on you ter give the ball
a kick, knowin’ that the others'll foller the
lead. I'm tol’ the queschun of dress is very
important with these publicerty blokes, so
I’m orderin’ a noo outfit from Sammy the
Slip. You might tick-tack me w’ether w’ite
spats is worn now’ with yaller boots an’ a
frock-coat an’ bowder ’at, or ’as me ole goat-
racin’ pal Stan Bruce killed the fashun?
* * sit
“Hotham”: A good deal of speculation has
been going on among Melbourne and Sydney
trackmen as to wdiether Whyte, of Victoria,
or Stuart, of N.S.W., wdll catch the eye of
the Olympic selector for the middle-distance
representation. Whyte holds the Austral-
asian record for the half-mile with lmin.
56sec.; Stuart’s best for the same distance is
limn. 56 2-ssec., though that was made on a
heavy track in the championship in Maori-
land, wherein Whyte was not a competitor.
If funds do not permit the sending of both
of these fine runners to Amsterdam, it is felt
that a test run should be held to decide
which is the better of the pair. The equiva-
lent Olympic middle-distance event is the 800
metres, or 874.88 yards, and the Olympic
record, held by D. G. A. Lowe, of England,
is lmin. 52 3-ssec. But Lowes do not grow
on every bush, and it is probable that on
the perfect cinder tracks of the Olympic
arena Whyte and Stuart would considerably
better their Australian times.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Ula”: There is more fruit crystallising
carried out in Australia than “Max” would
have us think (B. 19/l/’2B). Macßobert-
son’s (Melbourne) turns out tons weekly of
ehocolated-coated crystallised fruit, this
branch of the business keeping over a hun-
dred hands in constant employment.
He H* He He
“Strict Veg.” : The latest device in Mel-
bourne is a Peach Week. This is not a pro-
posal to concentrate the attention of the
community for seven days on the flapper,
but a scheme for getting rid of a fruit glut.
Actually there is no surplus of first-rate
varieties. Good peaches are still as expen-
sive as ever. But there is a big heap of
inferior sorts waiting to be devoured. It
might be more to the point to encourage
growers to improve the quality of their
orchards.
He ❖ He
“Make”: An export line that Will not
lapse for lack of supply in Maoriland is the
frozen-eel trade. Invercargill fishermen are
now catching the slitherers in large quanti-
ties and sending them to England, where
there is a steady demand for the delicacy.
Recently in one trap in the Waikiwi Creek
a haul of nearly 500 was .secured, the catch
weighing half a ton and filling seven large
sacks. The only people likely to complain
should a shortage follow are Henare and
Co., who have appreciated the eel as an item
of diet for centuries.
$ sS * *
“Winifred”: The members of a family
on the Clarence (N.S.W.) have de-
veloped an all-Australian industry without
any assistance from the State. From a
small start on a millet farm they have
progressed till they turn out £7O or £SO
worth of millet brooms a week. They make
the brooms from millet of their own grow-
ing and harvesting, and cut and dress the
handles from timber raised on their own
farm.
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: For lightness,
rigidity, strength and the qualities that make
for easy working and fixing, good straight-
grained Oregon stands supreme (B.
25/l/’2B). But nowadays good Oregon is
only used in joinery; the knotty, shaky rub-
bish which goes into many buildings is not
a patch on first-class karri or mountain-
ash for purlins, joists, rafters, facia boards,
etc. And why such a lot of soft, knotty
Baltic flooring still goes into suburban bun-
galows is beyond me. Jarrah or mountain-
ash flooring is everlasting, and, after being
cleaned off with a sanding-machine, its
appearance is so handsome that linoleums
are unnecessary. Another thing I cannot
understand is why doors of quarter-sawn,
kiln-dried stringy-lbark or ash aren't used
instead of the soft and flimsy Californian
redwood. I’ve seen a redwood door pulled off
its hinges by the weight of a couple of over-
coats on it.
THE WORM TURNED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Rabbit skins are being sold in the United States
under a variety of names from ‘Baltic Lion’ to
‘Baltic Tiger.’ With the prefix of ‘Baltic,’ in fact,
bunny masquerades as everything from a leopard
to a seal.” — Argus.
I rested on the quiet gr 'und one summer
eventide,
When suddenly I heard a sound as though
the earth had sighed;
And then it seemed a music sweet, a croon-
ing faint but nigh,
Came trembling up beneath my feet, a voice
that sang to cadenced beat
A muffled lullaby:
Hush-a-bye, bunnies, in your deep bed!
The hunters are home and the ferrets are
dead ;
What though to-day you’re so timid, my
dears,
That men make a byword of you and
your fears,
Hush-a-bye, bunnies, never you cry—
And you will be tigers by-and-bye!
With ear close pressed upon the green I lay
and listened long,
And through the slumb’ring earth between I
heard again that song;
Though certainty I might not know, yet not
a doubt had I
’Twas Mother Rabbit crooning low to soothe
a score of babes, or so,
Her lazy lullaby :
Hush-a-bye bunnies, watch I will keep!
The traps are all sprung and the hunters
asleep;
Daddy has gone to the great U.S.A.
And now lie’s a big savage leopard, they
say;
Hush-a-bye, bunnies, never you fret —
And you will be Baltic lions yet!
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


fds
British Bearings
The amazing growth in popularity of R. & M.
British Bearings is not due to patriotic reasons alone
but is the natural result of the care and precision
in manufacture and the consequent advantages they
embody.
R|N
&VGLANO
BALL $ ROLLER
BEARINGS
have proved their efficiency to such an extent that they
are now used by more than 80 per cent, of British Motor-
car Manufacturers.
These British Bearings have more than justified their claims
for dependability, economy, safety and endurance and
wherever they are used turn Friction into Fiction.
Made in Sizes and Types for all automobile and industrial
engineering uses.
Exclusive Commonwealth Agents and Distributors —
GARDNER, WAERNg CO. Pty., Ltd.
m
MELBOURNE: 481 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: Hunter Street West.
South Australian Agents; CHADWICKS, LTD., 117
Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
Tasmanian Agents: W. & G. GENDERS PTY., LTD.,
HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Queensland Agents: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD.,
BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE.
WEST AUS. AGENTS: (Automotive) COVENTRY
MOTOR CO., PERTH. (Industrial) FLOWER,
DAVIES & JOHNSON, LTD., PERTH.
BUY BEARINGS
'X/.
* wiu*
Sportsmen! If you
intend being THERE when
the Duck Season opens February
15, look to your guns and supplies of
cartridges now. Stock up at Hartleys
—you’ll save. Country orders de-
spatched same day.
CARTRIDGES
Per 100.
New Club, black . . 15/-
Kyblack 15/-
Eley Diamond 17/-
Eley Amberite 17/-
Nile Ballistite 19/-
Remington 20 / -
Repeater .... 20/-
Nobel’s Ballistite 24/-
Nitro Club 24 /-
Arrow Express 26/-
Leader Oval 26/-
4*
m
SUNDRIES
Leather Cartridge Belts—
5/6, 7/6, 11/6
Patent Spring Clips, doz., 2/9
Gun Cases, Leather, L.O.M.—
30/- to 75/-
Gun Covers, Canvas 5/.
Canvas Game Bags—
-10/6, 12/6, 16/6
Military Haversacks 2/6
Decoy Duck Calls .. 2/6, 3/6
Waders, all sizes, 25/- to 85/-
Also all Camp Goods—Tents,
Sleeping Bags, Camp Stoves, Lan-
terns, etc. —at Melbourne’s Best
Values.
GUNS
B36—HARRINGTON AND RICHARDSON SINGLE-
BARREL GLTN, 12, 16 or 20 bore, top lever action,
non-ejector • • 50/-
B 37 —H. AND R. GUN, as above, auto ejector, 55/-
B3O—SPECIAL D.B. 12GA. HAMMER GUN, 30in. steel
barrels, left choke, right modified, back-action locks,
treble crossbolt, snap fore-end £4/15/-
BI7—WILLIAMS’ D.B. HAMMER GUN, top-lever action,
double bolted, back-action locks, fine steel barrels, nitro
proved, walnut stock £B/15/-
B33—SPECIAL VALUE D.B. HAMMERLESS GUN, 30in.
nickel-steel barrels, left full choke, right modified, cham-
bered 2§in. cases, matted rib, treble Greener bolt, auto
safety, recommended £B/10/-
B 25 —B.S.A. STANDARD DE LUXE HAMMERLESS, 12
bore, 30in. plain steel barrels, nitro proved, chambered
2 Jin. cases, blued action body, recommended, £l5/ 15/-
Bll —HOLLIS D.B. HAM.uERLESS GUN, 30in. English
steel barrels, nitro proved, left choke, chambered 2Jin.
cases, auto safety, crossbolt action . .. £l9/19/-
Call or write for FREE “■Shooter’s Guide,”
Posted free, anywhere, to Bulletin readers.
HARTLEY*
270 Flinders Street (opp. Station), and at
148 Swanston Street (n’r Town Hall), Melb.
«s.
\
10,000.000 RUBBER TREES
10.000 WORKERS~SUPPLYthe rubber
Hl
'
s
V
ore for your Money
Plenty of rubber—not only where
you can see it, but deep down in
the invisible cord fabric of the tyres.
Pure rubber—plenty of rubber—
at every point of stress and strain.
U.S. ROYAL CORDS live extra-
ordinarily long lives because they
are more than a match for the
drawn-out ordeal of months and
months of rough roads.
fds
U.S. ROYAL
CORD
BALLOONS
Distributors —
UNITED STATES RUBBER CO. (A’SIA), LTD.,
11l Margaret Street Brisbane. ’Phone 4250.
UNITED STATES RUBBER CO. (A’SIA), LTD.,
517 Collins Street, Melbourne. Central 9437.
UNITED STATES RUBBER CO. (A’SIA), LTD.,
195 Flinders Street, Adelaide. ’Phone 6246.
UNITED STATES RUBBER CO. (A’SIA), LTD.,
439 Kent Street, Sydney. ’Phone M 2031 (4 lines)
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD.,
894 Hay Street, Perth. ’Phone A 3151 (4 lines) )
€*US‘t.
The Canberra Building &. Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital £lOO,OOO
Issued Capital 49,161
Paid-up Capital .......... 30,234
Directors:
John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
E. G. Craee, Esq. ; W. G. Woodger, Esq. •
S. J. Goulston, Esq. ; R. G. H. Joseland, Esq’.
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax.
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particular's on application.
L. G. FUSSELL, General Manager.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Two HIGH-GRADE STOCK SADDLES
The “BOULIA” The “LONGREACH”
f
dsf
ds
fds
COMFORT
for
HORSE
and
RIDER
The “BOULIA” is an extra
dippy-seated saddle with the
orthodox stock pads set well
up the rider’s thighs. Fitted
with folded girth, leathers and
solid nickel stirrups.
£l5/17/6
The “LONGREACH” is an ex-
ceptionally comfortable saddle
with pads differing in shape
from the regular stock pad,
and running up the thighs
almost level with the head of
saddle. The flaps are sewn
direct on to the seat, giving a
narrow non-chafing grip.
Fitted as above.
£l6/10/-
Freight Paid for Cash with
Order to N.S.W. Railway
Stations.
4
Write for Our
Catalogue of
Texas and Aus.
Saddlery.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 George Street,
SYDNEY.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
A-
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
9
Q
&
V
The Choicest
Australia
Produces.
Plump palatable
and spotlessly clean.
Such are Swallow and
Ari e 1 l’s Raisins,
stemmed and seeded
ready for your cakes
and puddings. Ask
your grocer.
SWALLOW
AND 4
AEIELLS
SEEDED X RAISINS
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co„
214 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Australia’s 140th birthday was celebrated
by the Wattle League at the Lyceum Club.
The president, Mrs. Britomarte James, pre-
faced a musical programme by saying that
the league is as much interested in fostering
native artistic talent as it is in the planting
of wattle. Special guests wei'e Mayor Morell
and bis lady, she in black with rivulets of
diamente. Richard Linton brought his wife,
whose green- and rose-patterned bridge coat
covered a black gown, and Dr. and Mrs.
J. W. Springthorpe, the A. Gilchrist couple
and the A. E. Aughtie couple, just back
from an oversea jaunt, were in the throng.
John Alexander Browne sang a new national
anthem, “All Hail Australia,” a setting by
P. Giffard-Steele of verses penned by padre
R. M. Fergus. Mr. Browne also introduced
some lyric compositions of Madame Bene Gib-
son Smytlie, of Terang, Mrs. Forrest being one
of the verse-writers whose words received
musical embellishment. A couple of songs
composed by Cecil Parkes were given by
May Daley, and Ruby Reynold Lewis was
represented by her “Hunting Song.” Edith
Harrhy’s “Golden Wattle,” an arrangement
of lines by Eleanor Wemyss, also figured on
the programme.
The third art needlework competition of
the Semco concern, established at Semco
Park, Black Rock, has attracted 1400 entries,
which make a fine show in the company’s
city showrooms. Cash prizes aggregating
£OB9 have been awarded. Exhibits have
come from all parts of the Commonwealth,
and even Maoriland is represented. A fea-
ture of the show is the superiority of the
best of the amateur entries to the best pro-
fessional efforts. Miss B. Langdale, of
Hobart, an amateur, won the £25 prize for
the best piece of needlework with a supper-
cloth of old bleached linen worked in Riche-
lieu embroidery. Other winners in the
amateur class were Miss R. Jaffray, Otago,
M.L.; Mrs. Id. Speller, Sydney; Olive Gar-
dim, Castlemaine (Vic.) ; Miss Valentine,
Moss Vale (N.S.W.) ; and Mrs. E. Sing,
Ravenswood (Q.). Maude Lumsden, Mal-
vern (Vic.), and Miss B. Holmes, Denmark
(S.A.), figure among the successful profes-
sionals. A pleasant and profitable hour can
be spent amid the array of cloths, guest-
towels, toilet-sets, cushions and novelties.
A beginning is to be made soon with the
extension of Parliament House. The £50,000
provided by the Commonwealth in lieu of
rent for the Spring-street buildings for 26£
years is to be spent on the north-east wing,
and additions will include a dining-room
handy to the Assembly chamber and an office
for the Speaker instead of a piece of a cor-
ridor. The present building contains far
too many corridors and lobbies and little
comfortable accommodation. The lay-out has
impeded rather than promoted good-fellow-
ship among members.
City property values are still soaring.
£200,000 has just been paid by Myer’s for
the freehold whereon stood Robertson and
Moffat’s old fluffery. Yet the first land sale
in Melbourne was a failure, and property
owners set small value on future possibilities.
Relatives of the men who threw away golden
opportunities in the early days are addicted
to regretful sighs. A family with whom
George Baldrcy was connected cannot pass
the corner of .Collins and Elizabeth streets
without remembering his lack of foresight.
Baldrey, a working baker, was offered a
block there in lieu of two weeks’ wages, but
insisted on payment in cash.
A commercial forestry concern is shaking
up interest in Australian timbers by a shop-
window display in Collins-street. The show
is made up of beautiful furniture fashioned
from myrtle, sycamore, blackwood and other
pretty Australian woods, a sample of inlaid
flooring (part of the Wembley forestry ex-
hibit), a blackwood aeroplane-propeller used
with success by the late Harry Hawker, and
exhibits illustrating the paper-pulp and euca-
lyptus-oil industries. The durability of our
timbers is also demonstrated.
Amidst the tinkle of broken glass Olga,
only daughter of the M. Simmons couple, of
St. Kilda, and Sydney, eldest son of the
M. Aarons, of Elwood, were declared one in
the Bourke-street Synagogue at sunset on a
recent evening. The bride’s gown of white
georgette blushed with faint pink, and
ladders of tucks climbed down from the
waistline. The up-front and down-back
effect, evidently copied from the peacock, was
exploited in the maids’ frocks, and No. 1
topped her ivory satin with a picture hat
swung up to the side and held in position
with a chin strap. A shower of silver leaves
lightly frosted the cloud of georgette which
enveloped the second attendant. Three
little maids, in white frocks a-flutter with
mauve petals and hatted with circlets of
floral lace, stepped behind the bridal train.
The A. C. Waites, of East Gippsland,
took their youngest daughter, Enid, to Arma-
dale to keep an altar date at St. Alban’s
with John Alexander, second son of the
Frank Robertson couple, of Brisbane. The
bride was demurely clad in a cloud of ivory
georgette fashioned into petals which clung
round silver-shod toes. A veil of Limerick
lace draped the head and cascaded down
into a train, which covered yards of aisle.
The bridegroom’s sister Lorna came from
Brisbane to act as maid, and lent color to
the event with a mist of bois-de-rose georg-
ette. Mrs. Raoul I)u Clos and Mrs. Sydney
Robertson, sisters of the bride, were matrons
of honor in mauve-and-grcen confections.
The clock of fashion slipped back a
century at St. Martin’s, Hawthorn, on
Saturday evening, when Marjorie Antoin-
ette Elden Vale, only daughter of the late
Herbert and Mrs. Vale, of Toorak, kept a
wedding ti-yst in a gown of the 1830 period.
The bride’s ivory chiffon taffeta frock had a
tulle hem embroidered in silver. A lace
veil draped the head and garnished a court
train. Doris Moore, •in oleander pink
taffeta, and Thelma King, glistening in
mauve, attended her. The billowy ankle-
length gowns of the trio gave the ceremony
an old-world grace and dignity. The bride-
groom was John, youngest son of the George
Bridgefords, of Smeaton. The marriage
feast was spread at Carlyon’s.
When Helen, a daughter of the F. E. Bell-
maines of Balywn, and well known on the
tennis courts, laid aside her racquet for a
bridal bouquet on Thursday, billows of tulle
floated around her, through which was
glimpsed a gown of white chiffon satin shim-
mering with crystal, and silver buttons.
Sister Althea, the bridegroom’s sister Iris and
Marjorie Bellmainc attended in Frencliy
frocks of pink georgette with touches of
blue, topped by harmonising millinery. The
bridegroom was Albert Davis, of Port Mel-
bourne ; St. Pat ’g Cathedral saw the cere-
mony, and after-ifejoicings took place at the
Windsor.
Here is the principal of the Emily
McPherson College, Royena Chisholm. Her
Christian name isn’t, as some suppose, a
corruption of that given by Sir Walter
Scott to his
Saxon her o-
ine. Botany
being a pat-
ernal hobby
she is called
after the
Dutch bota-
nist, Adrien
Roycn, and
the white
blossom that
bears his
name. Miss
Chisholm,, who
i s a B.A. o f
M e 1 b o u me
Uni., was at-
tached to the
Domestic Arts
School in
Lonsdale-
street, the
genesis of the
college which
she now rules. Prior to being given charge
she had a post-graduate course at Toronto,
and, at the Education Department’s request,
visited the world’s principal domestic train-
ing institutions. The college was opened
in April last by the Duchess of York; Wil-
liam McPherson’s gift of £25,000 supplement-
ing a subsidy and a free site granted by
the Government provided the ways and
means. There were 750-students on the roll
last year, the average attendance being about
200 daily. Special attention will be paid
this year to the training of women for the
restaurant and tea-room business. In a
hostel 25 students are being prepared to take
places as teachers of the domestic arts.
Barbara Ruth Rowan, whose engagement
to Dr. C. R. Huxtable is announced, is a
grand-daughter of late surgeon O’Hara, of
Collins-street. Miss Rowan nowadays lives
with her father, Stephen Rowan, in a Bris-
bane flat, to which he retired from the un-
certainties of running a Queensland station.
Her fiance’s late dad hung out a brass plate
in College-street, Sydney, for many years,
and was a nephew of the late W. H. Walsh,
well known in the Bananaland capital.
Nell Hill has gone abroad on a buying
expedition, with the notion, also, of estab-
lishing in London a salon des modes on the
lines of the premises over the Tivoli in which
she and her sister cater for exclusive tastes
in dress. One must be known and vouched
for to gain admittance through that closely-
guarded portal, and the spacious interior,
set with deep lounge chairs and quaint
ornaments against an artistic background,
suggests a civic reception-room rather than
a shop. In an inner sanctum robes bearing
the names of great designers are lifted from
bureaux and exhibited with reverent care.
The sisters, who have achieved great success
with their venture, are the daughters of Jim
Hill, curator of Flemington racecourse.
They have inherited the artistic taste that
has made the course one of the show-places
of the State.
The W. Condons are preparing for a flit-
ting oversea. Mrs. Condon, who before her
marriage was a Sydney girl, is making a
habit of holiday trips to Colombo, and this
will be her third visit. Her husband, seek-
ing a rest cure, and her small son Peter will
accompany her, and their house at Ivew will
be left in charge of her husband’s parents
during the ramble, which may start with a
viVe to some of the other States and Maori-
land.
This face, pictured by Ruskin, belongs to
J. S. Watts, architect, the first white boy
born in Caulfield. His father, the late
Thomas Watts, who was this city’s oldest
designer of
buildings, ar-
rived in 1853
and built the
first house in
that locality.
Blacks were
numerous and
bold in those
days, and they
kidnapped J. S.
Watts’s sister
and held her
till a ransom
was paid. As
a boy the sub-
ject o f this
paragraph was
keen on sail-
ing as a pas-
time, a n d he
was one o f
the founders
of the Brigh-
ton Yacht
Club. During five years spent in Westralia,
where he married, he became one of Judge
Burnside’s crew and helped to sail the
Genesta. His principal interest in these
days, outside architecture, is anti-vivisec-
tion.
The committee of the Loreto Old Girls’
Association had a tea-drinking at the Wattle
the other day in honor of Ethel Ryan, for
10 years the club’s secretary, who is going
on a world tour. Ribbons of the school’s
color, royal blue, were trailed amid the
floral adornment of the tables, and floated
from a posy that was handed to Miss Ryan.
Mrs. D. J. Iloban was hostess.
The John Ross couple with their small
son have departed on a European tour. She
was Dr. Isabel Younger, one of the pioneers
of infant welfare work in this State.
Arrived from Scotland last week Margaret
Ralston, who has exchanged positions for
a year with Gladys Dellit, senior teacher of
dressmaking at the Emily McPherson College
of Domestic Economy. Margaret is Miss
Dellit’s opposite number at Berridge Home,
a training-college for teachers of Domestic
Science at West Hampstead. She was asso-
ciated for a time with the Glasgow school
of the same nature. The buildings were
just ready for occupation when the Great
War broke out, and the place was comman-
deered to serve as a military hospital. Miss
Ralston is not the first of her family to visit
Australia. Her father, as a venturesome
youth of 16, sought fortune on the Bendigo
goldfields, but he lost more gold than lie
found and returned to London and a job as
one of the staff artists of the Graphic.
Word has been received from the Countess
of Darnley that she is planning to visit
Australia later in the year, and will perhaps
stay long enough to evade the English
winter. She has many relatives and friends
in this State who will be glad to return the
hospitality lavished on them by the Countess
in her English home. Years have passed
since her last visit. Her eldest son, the
present Earl, was born in Australia.
Mrs. P. H. Osborne, now domiciled in
London, has lent her daughter, Airs. De
Coursey Hamilton, to the returning Pat
Osborne couple as their guest for an Aus-
tralian holiday. The lady has a host of
squatter relatives in these parts, and has a
big round of visits ahead of her.
The heads of the Federal Distilleries con-
cern gathered round the board at Menzies’
on Thursday night to welcome back N. J. M.
Brelaz, their chief chemist. This young man
was sent abroad for a year to investigate
oversea methods of distillation. Giving an
account of his experiences, he announced
with pride that samples of Australian-made
“Old Court” whisky which he took across
with him w r on high jiraise from Scottish
experts.
Mrs. A. J. Thynne has taken temporary
leave of her home at Highgate Hill, Bris-
bane, and is the guest of her daughter, Mrs.
Keith Hall, at South Yarra.
The William Higgins couple, who have
been roaming round the world, returned
recently, but, as their home was not avail-
able, went on to Sydney, where news
reached them that daughter Muriel’s
husband, Bradford Larnard, had passed out
at Marano, Italy. When his widow has
settled her affairs she intends sailing in this
direction to rejoin her parents, but the date
of her coming is not fixed yet.
Frank Ritchie, now wearing the dignity
of a managing director, is meeting friends
after many years. His mission in Australia
is to look into the running of the I’, and 0.
Company's many branches. He started on
the bottom rung of the ladder, and his
steady rise has made him no enemies.
Minnie Everett, who has trained many of
the Firm’s young dancers, returned the other
day after having seen the best shows in
New York, London and Paris. It is seven
years since she was last abroad, and she
found that though the Australian stage
chorus can still hold its own anywhere, the
cities of the Northern Hemisphere can teach
us lots about dancing. Miss Everett was
accompanied on her travels by Stephanie
Guy, the Sydney pianist, who has been con-
nected with J.C.W. enterprises here for
some years, and who had her first glimpse
of foreign parts.
Maud Poynter, the Tassie pottery artist,
spent a few days in this city on her way
home to the Apple Isle after a year’s tour
abroad. She viewed craft-work in England
and on the Continent, and spent some time
in Ireland sketching.
The W. H. Tompsons, who leave for
Europe next week, are being treated to
farewell brews and feasts. Mrs. Tompson's
mother, Mrs. John Ramsay, was hostess at
a dinner at Menzies’; and Jessie Sutherland
gave a tea party at the Quamby Club.
Dr. Georgina Sweet has decided on another
oversea jaunt, and sails for England in the
Orvieto on February 21.
The appointment of Captain G. F. Hyde
as A.D.C. to King George is regarded in
naval circles as a step towards a rear-
admiral’s flag. The Captain is coming
back in the Melbourne when the two new
R.A.N. cruisers are commissioned.
Many naval officers are discarding gold
braid for civvies and rushing off on leave
just now. Captain Len Darly, one of our
best amateur tennis players, elected to
spend his holiday competing in the Sydney
tournament. A Geelong boy, and unattached,
he is something of a social favorite. He
was one of the company on board the old
Australia. He also distinguished himself in
the action with the Emden.
The flowering gums which border the
greater part of the tram road from Sandring-
ham to Black Rock are now bursting into
flower, and make a brave display. This
double line of trees was planted as a memo-
rial to the men of the district who fought
in the Great War. Those parts of the road-
way void of trees seem barren wastes in
comparison, and if the Shire Council has
an eye for beauty it will fill in the blank
spaces.
After having decided in solemn confer-
ence that their salaries are the lowest in
Australia for similar duties, the Vie. women
teachers fraternised at a luncheon at Buckley
and Nunn’s on Thursday, when further
speeches were made on the burning subject.
A surprise party at the St. Kilda-road
home of a well-known hostess, organised by
an equally well-known stage favorite, had
more of the element of the unexpected about
it than is usually the case. Of course, a
hint was dropped to the lady who was to be
surprised, and she bought herself a new-
model frock, and sent out some invitations
on her own account. Her smartly-attired
invited guests arrived early, and with their
hostess awaited the coming of the mummers.
First came a couple in the attire of a bygone
age, then a fierce-looking Russian Bolshevik,
and next a dainty lady arrayed in the mode
of 40 years ago. After that a succession
of weirdly-arrayed characters stepped across
the threshold, and the party was on.
Dr. Barry Thomson and his genial wife
are looking forward to the return of their
only son Jack from U.S. He sails in the
Niagara next month. The youth has made a
successful debut on the London stage, and
at present is playing juvenile lead in a
New York play, “The Immoral Isabella.’
“A.G.M.” writes from Nice: —
George Coates and his wife, Dora Meeson, lately
spent a long spell at Villefranehe, on the French
Riviera, where Mrs. Coates painted a number of
most attractive pictures, mainly of the old Italian
section, near the quay. Three of them are well
placed in the exhibition at the Royal Institute in
Piccadilly, and one of the most important has been
bought by Hall, the window manufacturer, who,
after the fashion set by Lever at Port Sunlight, is
establishing a picture gallery in the model village
which he is building in Essex.


HEIGHT, NOT INCLUDING PLINTHS AND HANDLES.
4|in. sJin. 63111. 7iin. BJin. 9j|in.
£2lO/- £3 £5 £7 £9 £l2
Special Value Sterling Silver Cups
Drummonds have the finest selection of Sterling Silver Cups
in the Commonwealth, at prices ranging from 20/-. The
stocks are constantly augmented with new designs from
London’s foremost silversmiths. Customers ordering by mail
are guarahteed the same satisfaction as personal selection in
the showrooms. PRICES STRICTLY NET.
Wm. Drummond & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET - - - MELBOURNE.
Golf, Tennis, Polo
and Racing
Trophies
A. SAUNDERS’
SPECIAL REDUCTION
IN
ORNAMENTAL BEDROOM
CLOCKS
7
See
Nos. 1 and
Window
Displays.
A. SAUNDERS’ bedroom Clock, Reliable
Timekeeper, Xylonite Case. Bfeduced to 15/-
Other shapes, 12/6, 17/G, 20/-
A. SAUNDERS’ Bedroom Clock. Per-
fect Timekeeper, Polished Rosewood
Case. Reduced to 20/-
All
Clocks
Are
Oiled,
Tested
and
Regulated
Before
Leaving
Showroom
■rgr-^TT •wmrmvrfrmr^
a'lO 11 12 1 2'fi
I „ A. Saunders '
3:1
A. SAUNDERS’ Bedroom Clock, in
Pale Blue, Cream and Orange
Enamel Case, 30 hours, alarm.
Reduced to 12/6. With Radium
dial, 15/-
A. SAUNDERS’ Bedroom Clock, Solid
Oak Case, 30 hours, alarm. Accurate
timekeeper. Reduced to 17/6.
WE KEEP IN FREE REPAIR FOR ONE YEAR.
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker—Jeweller —Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
The
Battery you can
rely on—always
Fit a P. & R. Accumulator to your
car and you won’t find it lacking when
most you need it. The right P. &R.
will turn an engine over against the
stickiest oil or the highest compression.
The reason is simple. The P. &R.
is built to give a powerful and healthy
rush of current to the starter. It is
built with the knowledge that when
the starter button is first depressed the
battery is delivering current through an
almost complete short-circuit.
That is why inter-cell connectors on
the P. &R. are copper-cored. And
that, in turn, is one of the reasons
why the P. & R. lasts in service.
PR
PETO A. RADFORD
ACCUMULATORS
Before you buy any
battery write for
special booklet to
address below* •
The beginning and the end in
Poweß
p.i
hip
Direct Factory
Representative:
John Arnold,
Degreaves Buildings,
Degreaves Street,
Melbourne.
A. G. HEALING, LTD.,
Melbourne.
SMITH SONS & REES, LTD.,
Sydney.
ROY HILL & CO., LTD.. Adelaide.
MOTOR VEHICLES, LTD.,
Perth.
E. REYNOLDS & CO.,
Wellington, N.Z.
o<t*<
0
v*V
n
Y'i
M:
Gloom to Sunshine
“Feeling liverish this morning—head a bit heavy—
going to be a muggy day—where are my slippers
very late last night of course —must be bright and
early at the office though—The morning glass of
ENO, and a shower —Feel better now —Think I’m
going to eat some breakfast after all —Glorious day
■—Business as usual.”
By following the pleasant
health-giving practice of
taking ENO’S “Fruit Salt”
first thing every morning
feelings of depression are
banished, and the world
seems a brighter place.
ENO will at all times, and
and in every climate help
maintain the perfect func-
tional activity of the
bodily organs.
Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, Limited.
London. England.
Sales Agents: The Briiish
Harold F. Ritchie 6c Co.,
Ltd.. Sydney, N.S.W.
«
♦♦
H
'k
IN
TWO SIZES'
AT CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
THE WORDS "FRUIT SALT” AND ENO ARE REGISTERED TRADE MARKS.?


Under
Royal
Warrant
fdsf
ToH.M
Kind;
George V
Vintage J 917.
CHAMPAGNE
MDKB
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
t^artesllcidsiecK
Reims
te i a
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Wire Accommodation.
Cable Address: ‘Alum,.'
Wentwoi
tb
hoTel
THE pinnacle of Hotel per-
fection.
HOT and Cold running water
and Telephones in every
bedroom.
Private suites de luxe. A
haven of simple luxury.
THE HOTEL YOU HAVE
BEEN LOOKING FOR
Combining the best features of
CUISINE, COMFORT AND
SERVICE.
Sydney s most spacious and
lovely lounge.
TARIFF: Rooms with Breakfast from 17/-. Inclusive Board from 26/-
ADDRESS: LANG STREET, SYDNEY.
r * p centre of Queens/on c/s
Cy/> ct/st/npu/street Soc/ot Lite.
ftmow
mm
BRISBANE
Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Teleprams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5180 —10 Liner
A WOMANS
LETTER
SAY Kayser
SLIPPER HEEL
[?]
STOCKINGS
The Madras muslin race-coat predicted
with such fervor from overseas has reached
Sydney. It made its appearance at Rand-
wick last Thursday, well cut and in becom-
ing patterns. One pet of a garment had the
deep tone of its groundwork patterned with
roses of the palely-pink tea variety. A
fashion that might have stepped out of the
Field or some equally correct county family
periodical was the white stockinet jumper
suit, worn with a white slouch hat, the band
of which was fastened by a red leather
button. Suits of this fabric are an inspira-
tion, for this is the only woolly material of
this Letter’s acquaintance that does not
shrink unduly in the wash. The summer girl
again held the stands the second day of the
Anniversary meeting, and the wide hat and
the printed voile and chiffon were the jocund
wear of the many. Here and there an
unwise virgin who had been captured by the
advance models in skull felts turned a melt-
ing visage to the sun. In contrast to an
amber-red, one of this family that for
further warmth cuddled its wearer’s ears
with curling-pads of heron feather, was an
hmazing flop hat of Tuscan leghorn, exactly
like that worn by Miss Muffett in some of
the old Kate Greenaway illustrations. This
had the wide yellow velvet ribbon around its
crown looped into a flat bow at top centre
front. It was a perfect hat for a portrait-
painter’s prop, hamper—Longstaff should put
the detective force on to its trail. Another
eye-arresting flop was one in powder-blue
silk straw worn by Marjorie Jacobson. With
it went blue velvet shoes, and in between
went a dress of the picture variety in
ethereal blues, and pinks. Gretel Bullmore
looked as though she had absorbed one or
two of her medical dad’s fees in her swirl
of golden-brown chiffons; Mrs. A. E. Hughes
was another patterned in chiffon from neck
to knee. Silver and pearl ear-rings, fathoms
deep, were a feature of this lady’s outfit.
Geranium-red hats were worn with distinc-
tion by Mrs. Hector Clayton and Helen
Stephen. White and mist-blue mingled in
blonde Mrs. Douglas’s jumper and finely-
pleated skirt. Mrs. Din Garvan’s fawn georg-
ettes wore drawn-thread embroideries with
line pleats for embellishments. Jean Ander-
son was serene and fair under a wide pink
hat; the Knox lady and Mrs. Colin Stephen
both wore black; and few looked more
.•Attractive than Mrs. Ezra Norton, slim and
fair in checked-blue silks and a white flop
hat. Among others noticed were the three
French racquet-wielders and actor Leon Gor-
don with his affianced Nancy Atkins, who
wore a cobalt-blue hat.
Since the three French tennis stars arrived
Sydney’s enthusiasm for the game has boiled
over. A positive net rash has broken out
in all the dailies, some of whom get their
stuff' written by potentates of the N.S.W.
Tennis Association. The Frenchmen, how-
ever, seem to have retained their sense of
proportion. Borotra declares that tennis is
only a game, and lie will not regard it as
anything more serious. But this won’t pre-
vent our chroniclers of the White City writ
ing of “epic” play and titanic struggles.
One of the first visits the Frenchmen paid
in Sydney was to the Cenotaph in Martin-
place. On it Borotra, the captain, very
reverently placed a wreath.
Girl Guides formed the guard of honor
when Lord Stonehaven arrived at the Royal
Hospital for Women last Friday. His Ex.’s
job was to lay the foundation-stone of the
hospital’s new wing. One thing mentioned
in the speeches was that in 10 years 30,000
patients had been cared for in the hospital.
His Ex. bore with him the usual silver
trowel, to be retained as a memento, when
the Metropolitan Police Band finally played
him into his car with the National Anthem.
The new wing will cost £lOO.OOO. of which
the Government will contribute £30,000.
Saturday’s sumptuous wedding was pro-
duced by the gilt-edged E. P. Andreas family
of Kirribilli. The wedding raiment fully
sustained the reputation of the bride. Mar-
jorie Andreas, and her sister Lucy as two of
the North Side’s best-dressed girls. Chan-
tilly lace, tight as to bodice, tiered as to
skirt and sown broadcast with diamente,
flashed under a cascade of white tulle veil
when father armed the bride up the aisle of
St. Stephen’s. The young man willing and
anxious to sign on for a lifelong voyage
was Clive Evatt, brother of the M.L.A. for
Balmain. Sister Lucy, Dorothy Searl, Jane
Evatt and Marie Burton ’maided in a swirl
of lilac and blue taffetas and tulle, and
each clasped an early Victorian posy in a
hand beringed with a pearl in a wrought
silver setting. The storm of congratula-
tions broke in the drawing-room of the Aus-
tralia where bride’s mother did the honors
in commendable black ring velvets.
Still another descendant of early Aus-
tralian settlers has been welcomed by Captain
Arthur Phillip to the company of shades that
watch with him the water-pageant that
yearly celebrates his entry to Port Jackson,
This was Alfred G. Milson, whose forebears'
grant of land ran from Milson’s Point
(where the bridge has its tentacles) to
Ivirribilli Point. The old gentleman, to all
seeming a hale 72, died suddenly the day
before the Anniversary Regatta of which
ho had been one of the ruling spirits for
nearly half a century. The regatta com-
mittee, of which he was chairman, regretted
that the function could not be postponed,
but probably the veteran yachtsman would
have hated to see the ideal regatta conditions
of last Thursday going to waste. For the
day was one of cool and sun-kissed beauty.
The Narkunda, this year’s flagship, off Neu-
tral Bay, positively crackled with bunting,
and the aloof grey line of 11.M.A.5. Sydney
in Farm Cove was made more human and
sociable by its dressing of gay pennants.
Over the tumbling blue crystal of the harbor
floor the yachts skimmed lightly and gaily
and with a grace that made the helter-
skelter speed-boats look like noisy little
larrikins. Alexis Albert proudly sailed his
Norn, that had just annexed the Sayonora
Cup. Men plied glistening oars or unleashed
the power of their launches, and girls in a
rhythm of silks and linens sat enshrined on
every sort of craft, or in colorful bathing-
suits glimpsed the scudding sails from pic-
turesque pools at the foot of their own or
their boarding-house gardens.
Brides are not often squired to the vow
exchange by their grandfathers. But this
was the lot of Vivien Vallentine. Her grand-
sire, a gallant of 83, in whose home the
wedding eventuated, handed her over to Law-
rence Nutter last week. Aunt Mrs. Arthur
Eedy had levied heavy toll on her noted
Vaucluse garden to beautify the rooms, and
the bride’s soft white lace and tulle raiment
glimmered mothlike against a background of
hydrangea, gladioli and frangipanni. A small
cousin, aged three, looking like a newly
sprung primrose, ’maided.
The discord that . jarred Sydney Uni.
circles over the housing of the Carillon is
recalled by the announcement that the
memorial is due early in March. It is
expected to be ready to take up its carolling
by April 25, Anzac, Day. Its place in the
tower will be ready by March 1. Bryan
Barker, a noted English player of carillons,
will introduce to the four winds of Heaven
the music of this peal of bells, claimed to
be the second best in the world. He will
also give a series of recitals extending over
some weeks, and will administer instruc-
tion to any musician anxious to learn to
manipulate the bells. The Uni. heads
naively announce that it will not be neces-
sary for the carillon itself to be sounded
during such lessons.
This is a new picture of Daphne Akhurst,
the brilliant little player who will be the
baby o f the
touring Aus*
tral i a n
w o m e n ’s
tennis team
which leaves
presently for
South Africa,
and will sub-
sequently b e
seen in France
and in England.
It is not yet
decided
whether
America will
be on the visit-
ing list this
time. Off the
courts Miss
Akhurst is a
clever pianist.
Ma y Moore
took the pic-
ture.
Law is the line dealt in by John Crawford
Wilson, of Warrawee, another of Saturday’s
’grooms. Gladys Marjorie Clay hails from
Stirlingshire, Scotland, and this twain also
were made one at St. Stephen’s.
The confirmed collector of the Archibald
prize, W. B. Mclnnes, is over in Sydney for
10 days with a quick-despatch commission
to paint the Edward Knox couple. They
are about to celebrate their golden wedding,
and the portrait is in the nature of a family
celebration. Knoxes from far and wide are
gathering in Sydney for the great duck-carv-
ing that is to accompany the hanging of
the picture.
Captain Massey, of the R.A.N., didn’t live
up to his name when he sent out cards for
the farewell dance in the Sydney last week.
Royalty itself could hardly have been more
critical over its guest list, and vice-royalty
would never have tried. The party was
wrapped about in a night of velvety warmth.
Commodore Hyde was the big gun of the
evening, and Commander Leo Quick, with
his wife in graceful golden georgettes, was
another notable naval man. The dance sim-
mered with youth in organdy, in chiffon and
in lace. Amid amateur actresses, Pearl Apple-
ton and Beryl Lynex contrasted swirls of lilac
organdy and grass-green taffetas. A frock
of rose chiffon fluttered about Mrs. Wisdom’s
ankles. Striking figures among the young
matrons were Mrs. Pat Levy, in star-
gemmed black, and equally fair Mrs. Alan
Potter, who shimmered in sea-green sequins.
This is a Monte Luke picture of Eunice
Hurst, who has been abroad completing her
musical studies. While in America she was
offered an ap-
pointment o n
the staff of
Wells College,
New York, as
teacher of the
violin. T h e
president and
board of direc-
tors did not
anticipate that
any objections
would be
raised by the
I in m i g r a tion
authorities, but
they were over-
sanguine, and
although they
subsequently
made special
representations
to the depart-
ment it was
held that regu-
lations now being enforced in America effec-
tually precluded Miss Hurst’s appointment.
A beautiful veil of rose-point Brussels
came from Ringarooma to make lovelier the
blushes of Bid (Beatrice) Casey when she
murmured “I will” to J. W. Evans, of
Sutherland, at St. Mark’s last week. The
veil made its first appearance five years ago
on the locks of a well-known Sydney girl,
Jessica Greatrex, now Mrs. Robert Ward-
law ; on this occasion its rich grace fell
over a bridal frock of white georgette whose
tight bodice and full-petalled skirt flashed
with silver embroideries. Dr. Donald Luker
gave the bride away, and old friend Padre
S. C. Wiseman, just back from far-flung
travels, tied the knot. Lorna Muston, the
only ’maid, glowed like a pink rose. Clive
Ley was groomsman, and his M.11.R. dad was
toast master. The subsequent reception was
hostessed by the 'bride's aunt, Mrs. Holliday,
supported by the A. L. Bourke side of the
clan from Kinaird, Rose Bay.
Another recruit to the ranks of ring-
flasliers is Beatrice Hunter Brown, of
Vaucluse. The young man who provided
the diamonds is Dr. W. M. Bevington, of
Albion, Brisbane.
An early shipboard romance was recalled
by the death of the octogenarian Mrs.
Hannah Barraclougli, one of whose sons is
the knighted Henry who is Dean of the
Faculty of Engineering at Sydney Uni.,
whilst another is the Deputy-Master in
Lunacy. Hannah Egerton was on her way
to Australia nearly 60 years ago when she
met William Henry Barraclougli; the three
months’ sea voyage was the prelude to wed-
ding bells chiming for the pair in the little
village that then was Sydney shortly after
their arrival.
St. John’s, the little old Anglican church at
Canberra that looks as though it might have
supplied material for the famous Elegy, mur-
mured a mellow blessing over the nuptials of
Florence Elizabeth Jeffreys and Harold Fair-
bairn l?rell. The bride is the great-grand-
daughter of the Robert Campbell who built
the hoary place of worship, and the eldest
daughter of the A. H. Jeffreys, of Delegate
station; the groom is the eldest surviving
son of the Prells, of Gundowninga, Crook-
well. The Bishop of Goulburn and padre
A. Fletcher handed over the sailing-papers
for the life cruise. The bride’s satins shim-
mered through a superb specimen of an old
Carrickmacross wedding veil. Sister Barbara
and Dorothy Prcll ’maided, ruffled in yellow
georgettes. Stanley Prell best-manned, and
was aided and abetted by groomsman Walter
Carter, of Lake Edward. Mr. and Mrs.
Jeffreys, in conjunction with the Canberra
hotel, supplied the meats of rejoicing.
The new play at the Royal drew the usual
packed first night on Saturday. There is
clever character building in the part of Mary
Dugan. Through the first act, where she sits
in stony silence and a string of her women
intimates—questionable creatures in too
smart clothes —give damning evidence against
her, you can’t resist a feeling that, like Mr.
de Morgan’s heroine, Mary is “somehow
good,” and the impression deepens all through
the second act. The heroine sustains her
trial in a well-cut three-piece of the new
cobalt blue, collared in grey fur. Her small
turned-up hat combines these two shades.
Noteworthy that all the hats in this pro-
duction were of felt and showed the eye-
brows and a tiny bit of forehead. One
daring red of the skull-cap variety was
cut right away in front and had the new
halo effect across the front outlined in
white, the whole finished off at the left side
with a flat bow. Another in white was very
similar, but its big flat bow' was in daffodil
yellow of the same material as the smart
daffodil coat that was cut to show white
godets. Yet another girl in the piece wore
a grey felt above a cyclamen coat. Scarlet
cyclamen, daffodil and cobalt-blue make quite
a splash of color in the drab court scene.
And the weeds worn by the widow are
guaranteed to make many a man realise
wherein the widow’s might really lies.
Gwenda, youngest of the well-known
Monie girls, found her romance, so to speak,
amid the glaciers and the Far North. The
young man in whose company she’s promised
to skim over life’s thin as well as solid ice
is Neils Storaker, a Norwegian, who has
been astonishing Kosciusko experts with his
feats of derring-do on ski and skate. Gwen’s
older sister was the first Mrs. Lebby
Hordern.
June, one of the starry-eyed Henry twins,
has just made Eric Boyd, of Perak, Malay
States,-, the happiest of men. Eric came
across in December, presumably for the
purpose of spending Christmas with his dad,
A. A. Boyd, the manager of Mount Morgan.
But as soon as the Yuletide rejoicings had
simmered down, he winged straight as a
dart for the little studio above Rowo-street.
Now June is wearing three square-cut
diamonds filigreed about in platinum. The
bride-to-be is a pretty and popular girl,
with a pair of happy blue eyes under curling
fair hair.
The Chapel of St. John’s within the Uni.
provided the setting for pretty Marie
Dooley’s wedding to Harold Best. The
bride hails from Murrurundi, and the groom
is the eldest son of the S. G. Bests, of
Lismore. The bride’s dress was of pale-
pink satin whisked over by a filmy old veil
lent by Mrs. J. Davidson, of Mudgee.
Petty’s, on Church Hill, echoed to the toasts.
Edward Augustine St. Aubyn Harney was
admitted to the legal profession of W.A. in
1897. He practised at Coolgardie and
Perth, and presently became a Senator of
the first Commonwealth Parliament. The
eloquent Irishman is now M.P. for South
Shields in England, and was married with
pomp and ceremony a few weeks ago in
London to Kathleen Anderson, daughter of
the president of the South Shields Liberal
Association. One-time N.S.W. Governor
Lord Beauchamp was among those who
helped to swell the costly stack of presents;
other contributors were Lloyd George, Sir
Alfred Mond, Sir John Simon and Sydney’s
own John Dailey. The sometime Senator
was called to the Irish Bar before he came
to Australia, and to the English Bar after
his return from here.
Have you got a pink-flowering gum on
your visiting list? If you have, and its
address is in the neighborhood of Sydney, this
is the time to pay your respects to the most
beautiful of all the cucalypts.
The S.P.C.A. intends making a special
splash with Be-Ivind-to-Animals Week this
year; starting with a Humane Sunday on
March 11, there will be a succession of affairs
to remind the public of its obligations
towards the meritorious body which takes up
the cause of creatures unable to make their
own plaints to the police. A sort of prologue
will be provided by a gymkhana at the
Horses’ Home at Long Bay—a convalescent
paddock run by the society for the benefit
of wearied-out beasts of burden.
One of Sydney’s big business men married
a second time a while ago. He had started
on the bottom rung, and in his steady climb
his first wife had been all the help and
comfort that a wife could be. When, there-
fore, he set his mind on a second marriage
he and the lady in the case decided that
they must start afresh; so the very con-
siderable property that No. 1 had helped him
to accumulate was made over absolutely to
the children of the first marriage. All he
kept was his job and the interest in the
business he serves. His friends say he is a
very unusual man, and of course he is.
But this Letter has an idea that No. 2 is
a very unusual woman also.
Talk of surfing recalls that the mother of
one beautiful Sydney girl w 7 ho married and
settled in Surrey has written about the
struggles of the little family to get itself
warm. The awful weather of Christmas
was really only the climax of 12 months oi
gloom. In some parts the watery sun hasn t
been seen a dozen times during the year
for more than five minutes at a time, and
thousands of children are suffering from
the shortage. Artificial sunlight is being
recommended to anxious mothers, and the
Sydney girl’s offspring are taking a course
of violet-rays.


■ , J-
HAOY B FLOS LTD.
EWELLE R_S
•-
PEARL NECKLETS
Pearl Necklets range from £lO/10/- to £SUUO.
Five per cent, discount for Cash.
Hardy’s Catalogue will be sent. Post Free to any address, on request.
and loose Pearls
Always fashionable and in per-
fect taste for every occasion, a
Pearl Necklet is a woman’s most
prized possession, no other Jewels
giving such lasting pleasure.
A small Pearl Necklet is often
purchased, and on Birthdays and
other Anniversaries extra Pearls
added until a large and valuable
string is obtained.
Hardy's stock of Pearl Necklets
and loose Pearls are bought only
on the most favorable terms and
offer the best value and largest
selection in Australasia.
2*B-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
WieJfo u&c oP &kcluswc Uewdlery
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
tl6-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
This year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
Amusements.
F M P I R E THEATRE,
Railway Square, adjoining Saunders’ Corner,
in Quay Street, Sjdney.
RUFE NAYLOR has the honor to present
1/6 2/6 THE FILM GIRL. 3/6 5/6
NIGHTLY AT 7.55.
Reserves at Theatre (MA1000), Nicholsons, Palings,
Samuels, and leading Hotels.
Matinees Thursdays and Saturdays at 2.15.
Theatre Box Office Hours: 9 to 8, 4 to 9.
gYD N E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: THE GIRL FRIEND.
CRITERION: THE LETTER.
ROYAL:
THE TRIAL OF MARY DUGAN.
PALACE:
THE ETERNAL MAGDALENE.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES
** Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CIOLIOmiITY V A ITDE VILLE.
The World’s Best.
| C. WILLIAMSO N, LTD.
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE STUDENT PRINCE.
KING’S THEATRE:
A CUCKOO IN THE NEST.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE TERROR.
A TH E N /IS U M THEA T R E,
** MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd-
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
TWICE DAILY.
E. J. CARROLL PRESENTS
CHANG,
A PARAMOUNT PICTURE.
Plans at Allan’s.
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-
WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SHAKSPEARE.
In preparation for 1928, “Coriolanus,” “All’s Well
That Ends Well,” “Henry IV.” (part 1), “Richard
II.” In Season Launceston to February 3.
Sydney Representative: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229,
Sydney.
Amusements.
H<> V T’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
EAST SIDE WEST SIDE,
Featuring GEORGE O’BRIEN.
MARION DAVIES in
THE FAIR CO-ED.
Also the Continental Concert Orchestra.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
WHITE FLANNELS,
A MASTER PICTURE.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone: 7076 & 7790.
For Sale.
DOGS AND CATS.
pTOR SALE a rare Siamese pedigree kitten
A (neuter), 6 months; sire and dam
imported. No. 56 Bulletin Office, Sydney,
or ring Y 1916.
Wanted to Sell.
DUMP. —Myer’s Bulldozer, 900 gallons
A per hour, belt-driven ; and McCormick-
Deering Gasoline Engine, 3 li.p. Apply
“Engine,” Box 856 K, Melbourne.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
The Little Sisters.
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Society is trickling back from Toowoomba
and Southport, but so trying was the weather
for the races that only the most ardent
enthusiasts braved an afternoon that thun-
dered sullenly in the face of a brazen sun.
His Ex. arrived in time for luncheon, and
Lady Goodwin, wearing dark navy, followed
later. Little Mrs. Campbell, who accom-
panied her, chose cool-looking blue and a
wide-leafed hat in cocoa colorings. Mrs. Ned
Tully, also in blue ; Mrs. Jim Stewart, wear-
ing rose and mastic; Mrs. Isaac Moore, in
magpie tonings; Cecily Garrick, wearing
coral-pink; Mrs. Lipscombe, from Julia
Creek, in orchid-green and a dusky chapeau,
also a stray Bell or two, were among those
who took an interest in the betting. The
lawns—miracles of green loveliness —were
splashed with the sienna and scarlet of
zinnia and salvia.
Meg, the graceful Titian-haired daughter
of the W. A. Douglas couple, who has
sternly resisted the temptation of the shingle,
announces her engagement to a lad from
Morvcn way named Oswald W. Smith.
Douglas Ryan and Kathleen Landy agreed
to live happily ever after at St. Stephen’s
Cathedral on a recent evening. The bride
wore white and silver with a shimmer of
pink. Four pink-frocked nieces took the roles
of bridesmaids and train-bearers. Floral
fans, in view of the temperature, appro-
priately replaced the customary bouquets.
The latest addition to the ranks of our
squattocracy is the 22-year-old Earl of Suf-
folk and Berkshire. He was in Australia
a few years ago as a cadet on the sailing
ship Monkbarns, and liked the country so
much that, with a partner, Captain McColm,
of Kendle (N.S.W.), he has bought 9GOO
acres of the Swinburne Estate. The Earl,
who arrived in Brisbane last week, proposes
to live in the fine old stone mansion on the
property. He succeeded to the title as a
lad of 12, when his father was killed in the
war.
The face with the upward and onward
expression pictured here belongs to Lena
Hammond, Brisbane’s leading contralto. Miss
H a m m o n d,
who has one
of the largest
teaching c o u-
nections in the
city, was the
woman soloist
in the Musical
Union’s pro-
d action of
Bantock's
“Omar Khay-
y a m,” the
most success-
ful concert of
the Union’s
year. In con-
junction with
pianist Gladys
Frost she has
lately been en-
gaged in broad-
casting. In
addit i o n to
training num-
bers of the youth of the city in vocal
gymnastics, Miss Hammond conducts a choir
of her own, whose concerts are a much
appreciated feature of the city’s musical
year. Holiday-times and week-ends find
the lady at her seaside home on the heights
of Ilumpybong. A keen collector of objets
d'art, she specialises in Chinese subjects.
Her holiday home, as a result, is one of
those places one reads about but very seldom
sees in reality.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The Victoria League entertained the visit-
ing science women in the Town Hall. Mar-
garet O’Grady was present, and among visi-
tors who gave addresses on the work of the
league in other States were the Masson lady
(Vic.), Miss Curnow (N.S.W.), Miss Prit-
chard (S.A.) and Mrs. Rischbeith (W.A.).
Mrs. A. C. Stour ton (dep. president) re-
ceived the guests, and Mrs. Fred Grant
warbled sweetly and played a violin solo.
There were tea, ices and other goodies after
the speechifying.
The women graduates of Tas. entertained
the visiting collegians of their sex at a supper
party. The Lewis lady was in the fore-
front, and supper was served at little tables
in the big Y.W.C.A. room. Words of wis-
dom were spoken by Prof. Georgina Sweet
(Melb.), Freda Bage (Brisbane), Gladys
Marks (Syd.), Dr. Constance Davey (Adel-
aide) and Miss Stevens (Perth).
The Grant-MacDougall wedding at St.
Raphael’s, Ferntree. was one of the prettiest
the small church ever witnessed. The bride’s
gown was of Limerick lace, glittering with
sequins and diamente, very full as to the
skirt and straight and slim in bodice, and
made with the new peacock back. The veil
of tulle fell to the ground from under a little
coronet of orange-blossoms. The two ’maids,
sisters Dora and Nancy, followed in bolero
frocks of fine lace, one over pink and one
over mauve. Both carried diamente bags,
and wore Juliet caps of tulle. At the recep-
tion at High Peax after the wedding Mrs.
Grant, the bride’s mother, wore apricot georg-
ette and black picture liat. The ’groom is the
eldest son of Prof. MacDougall, Sandy Bay.
The summer school of the Women's Non-
Party League is in full swing at New Nor-
folk. The week was ushered in by its only
social function, when Mrs. Tom Murdoch
gave a big reception at the Imperial, in
Hobart, the day before the country pro-
gramme opened. Mrs. Murdoch, very smart
in deep beige lace over georgette, under a
smart black satin caped coat with collar of
dull gold and small straight lines of gold
braid, worn with a big black picture hat,
received her guests just inside the lounge,
and later introduced the visiting speakers,
Mrs. Rischbeith and Dr. Constance Davey.
Mrs. E. A. Waterworth replied, and about
140 guests sat down to all manner of good
things served at small tables.
Sheila, the Hermann Hutchisons’ chick, a
leading light of the ski club in winter and an
enthusiastic surfer in summer, also noted for
her talent as an artist, has swopped a pro-
mise for a ring with Raymond Brettingliam
Moore, of Wantley, Richmond.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Amateur cooks and waiters made a picnic
of the trans-continental trip during the
stewards’ strike. Topping dinners, lots of
fun and a saving of tips made up for certain
little defects in the service.
Pictured here is a lady who has interests
in three States —Mrs. Walter Kingsmill,
wife of the
Senator. Born
in Vic., her
home was here
for 25 years,
when she did
her bit for
W.A. charities
as promoter
and afterwards
a life-governor
of the Child-
ren’s Protec-
tion Society.
She was also
one of the stal-
warts of the
Wattle Day
League, which
nominated her
as a patron.
Her home is
now in South
Yarra, with
occasional
lengthy stays at the Hotel Canberra during
the Federal sessions. Bardwell Clarke made
the portrait.
Perth welcomed the Italo-Australian Co.
with packed houses nightly last year, and
as a reward has been chosen by Count and
Countess Filippini for the establishment of
an operatic training school. It is intended
to produce several operas during the year.
The James Brennans’ third daughter,
Kathleen, while travelling abroad met
Captain Eric Lawrence Wilson-Hassenden,
2nd Batallion, 3rd Sikh Pioneers, Filakat,
India. She has agreed to face the altar with
him in June.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Helene Taylor’s third concert at the Town
Hall was rushed by an overflowing crowd
with an enthusiastic excitement that no over-
seas star has ever evoked here. Before her
return to England in March, Miss Taylor
will give a final recital at the Exhibition
Building, and will also be heard at Clifford
Lathlean’s concert.
The Government is considering the disposal
of the Governor’s residence at Marble Hill.
The fact that the recently appointed Hore-
Kutliven has been led to believe that he has
two houses at his disposal, and may arrive
to find he only has one, is not causing our
statesmen to lose any sleep.
The only social shivoo this week has been
the wedding of Wl. Champion Hadkett’s
daughter Margaret and E. A. M. Kirkwood,
of St. Mark’s College, at St. Matthews, one
of the oldest churches in the State. The
bridegroom hails from Clayfield, Brisbane,
and is son of the Rev. and Mrs. E. A.
Kirkwood. The bride wore a period frock,
it being the fashion now for the wedding
garment to hide the legs—the long skirt really
is more in keeping with a train and long
bridal veil. The bridesmaid, Edith Hale,
came from Melbourne to officiate, and the
bride’s small sister was a Kate Greenaway
trainbearer.
The seaside resorts have broken out into
an eruption of carnivals. At Henley Beach
the main square and jetty were festooned
with 12,000 colored lights. A parade of
girls in bathing suits was an attraction, and
a skating rink and dance palais, both im-
promptu erections, drew large crowds.
Twenty-five cheery, healthy boys arrived
by the Berrima under the boy farm appren-
tice scheme. They were given quarters at
the Agricultural Hall. Each boy had a Big
Brother allotted to him.
NORTHERN TERRITORY.
Darwin.
The three days of picnic racing at Brock's
Creek were very enjoyable. Fifty horses and
20 jockeys took part, and a ss. tote was run.
Dances and concerts at night kept the fun
going. The first race-meeting held at Brock’s
Creek was over 30 years ago, when the
Ladies’ Bracelet was won by Mrs. Tom
Crush, now Mrs. Haynes, who is still much
to the fore at all sports gatherings.
The closing down of railway construction,
owing to want of funds, is inflicting a great
deal of hardship on out-back folk. Many
storekeepers, restaurants and boarding-
houses obtained their wet-season supplies,
only to find that they were to be left on
their hands owing to so many men being
dismissed from the railway. Carters and
teamsters, who had contracted for the pur-
chase of tractors and motor-lorries, now
find these useless to them.
The December boat, due at Darwin on
Dec. 13, did not arrive till Dec. 21; so that,
though Darwin got most of its Christmas
mails and goodies before the holidays, the
folk out back had to wait till later on.
Territory folk merely shrug their shoulders
when mails are late, or provisions run
short. The Commonwealth has had charge
of the N.T. for 17 years now, and is making
a worse failure of the job every year.
Dr. H. L. Jones, for many years chief
medical officer here, was a departing pas-
senger by the December boat; he had to
leave hurriedly on account of illness. Latest
reports are that he is recovering, but it is
doubtful if he will return to Darwin.


lilSliJi!
i
mu
mi
m
■: *
■
:: .: V
m ' 8
'
m
iihhhbmi w
. 'ln
■l?'
■
W: WM 4
f &
m
■mm
Ok ™ m w #>'.
• ■ ,5 • • i-. '' :
#
f lb * *
Si w m I
#
#
#
,<• A
\
(A<
w
. >4l
:
A A,
5
*v' ’ /.i
:. ■■■'■
' J*
I \
m;\
Hi
*
!
MB
'■; . TM
bi
few
A
■ i
i mi
Underlying all new de-
velopment in enterprise
and commerce is efficient
transportation and
right abreast of the de-
mands of present-day
transportation is the
quality of Barnet Glass
Tyres.
mmm
m
M ■
%
A
vi
■
«
%
.
c
MR
" •
-•
A.
/"'
255
AR
siWi
K
PI
■ J
IISB
1
wf?
■
A-
• «
....* 11 i 111 fak 11
Mill
MCI
■ > *1
mm
j
n
¥*
% m ■9,
liii
. . ■
GLAII
sarate
HD
BARNET 6LASS RUBBER COMPANY LIMITED


f&l
Bottles of 36, 2/3
Bottles of 100, 4 1 9
m
<e>
I
TEASTON
PURE DRIED
BrewersYeasx
One to four Tablets
Rocke To
TThe secret of buoyant spirits and never-tiring energy lies in healthy,
“*■ normal digestion. Fatigue, headaches and depression are usually
caused by faulty elimination of waste.
Fresh, active yeast is a proven corrective to digestive troubles. Yeast
consists of m llions of tiny plants which act as healthful cleansing,
agents in the system. Yeaston Tablets are guaranteed to contain
live (active) yeast cells.
Qet the Yeaston habit. Keep a supply of these handy tablets.
Make sure they’re Yeaston, living yeast.
A Free Full Size Sample Bottle
will be sent to you, post free, if you simply cut out
this advertisement (or mention the Bulletin) and send
with your name and address to
Rocke, Tompsitt & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Flinders Street, Melbourne
“A clear spotless
skin denotes health
from within
xo%
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYPNF.Y SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Girl Friend”
Criterion “The Letter”
Royal “The Trial of Mary Dugan”
Palace “The Eternal Magdalene”
Empire “The Film Girl”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE.SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Student Prince”
King’s “A Cuckoo in the Nest”
Royal “The Terror”
Atuen.eu.m Moving Pictures
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoit’s Moving Pictures
“The Trial of Mary Dugan” opened its
account at the Sydney Theatre Royal on
Saturday night. Leon Gordon calls it a
melodrama, but it owes most of its appeal
to stage trickery and lacks a virtuous hero-
ine. The explanation that Mary Dugan has
lived her life of refined sin in order to make
a gentleman of her younger brother is thin.
The curtain never falls on the stage, set with
a court scene; during the intervals, which
are merely interruptions in the action caused
by adjournments of the court, the lights
are turned up on the house side, and
cleaners and other supernumeraries potter
around dusting desks and arranging chairs.
The absence of an orchestra enables the
make-believe jury to exchange its views in
undertones, and a voice from the upper gal-
lery gives the final judgment of the foreman
of that intelligent body. There is no great
art in this freak venture into realism, but
there is considerable ingenuity in the spicing
of a turgid story with comedy relief and in the
final forceful disproof of a case against the
prisoner which has been built up in the early
stages so as to look absolutely damning. Part
of the ingenuity consists in convincing the
house of the innocence of Mary, and so
winning its sympathy in despite of the
floundering defence. That Saturday’s audi-
ence was gripped was shown by the demon-
stration of approval and delight when, within
the last minutes, a swift turn of events
paves the way for a happy denouement.
* * * *
Although Leon Gordon fits admirably into
the role of the confident District Attorney
Galwey, inclined to be sympathetic with the
accused but regarding it as his first busi-
ness to convict her, some of the best work
is done by Brandon Peters as the lawyer-
brother of Mary, who becomes her advocate
when Edward YVest (Frederick Roland) falls
down on the job. His grief and shame when
he learns for the first time the sort of life
that has enabled his sister to provide him
with the means for a legal career, liis halting
embarrassment at the start (it is his first
case) and his confusion when he gets the
wrong replies from witnesses are no less
admirable than his excited confidence when he
-sees his way through ; in every way he affords
an effective contrast to the polished calmness
of the sophisticated Galwey. Daphne Bairn,
as Pauline Agguerro, a lady sentenced to
death for using a knife on her lover, supplies
'some Italian agitation and screams which
make a dramatic introduction to the ordeal
®f Mary Dugan, an emotional part, played
well by Gwyneth Graham; and Iris West
gave a capital rendering of Mrs. Edgar Rice,
the widow of the man whose death is the
cause of all the rumpus. A final word of
commendation is awarded Pirie Bush as a
very tailorisli tailor, John Fernside as the
colored lift-attendant, Noel Boyd as Dagmar
Lome (of the “Follies”), and Redge Carey
as a business-like Clerk of the Court.
“Cornered,” which has run profitably for at
least three weeks more than originally in-
tended, is in its last nights at Sydney Palace,
Muriel Starr follows on with “The Eternal
Magdalene” on Saturday. Next week both
“The Letter” and “Archie” disappear. The
Vanbrugh-Boucicault co. is committed to
quick change, and “All the King’s Horses"
is to gallop on at the Criterion; the St.
James alteration will bring back “Mercenary
Mary,” this time with Elsie Prince and
Jimmy Godden as principals. Meanwhile
“The Girl Friend” proceeds musically at
Her Majesty’s, and “The Film Girl” keeps
the Empire well filled with customers who
nibble chocolates and cavaliers who buy them.
“The Scarlet Letter” commenced its sea-
son with the usual elaborate pomp and cere-
mony at the Sydney Prince Edward on
Friday last. The film is an excellently pro-
duced one, but the efforts to create the intel-
lectual atmosphere of the period which
Nathaniel Hawthorne wrote about necessi-
tates the introduction of awkward devices.
To reproduce the little pioneer village that
was early Boston and the clothes its people
wore was simple enough, but to explain why
it was a crime for a woman to uncover the
cage of a pet bird and let it sing on the
Sabbath, or to wash her underclothes in a
way that revealed them to public notice, it
was necessary to show stern elders poring
over msres of the town ordinances. In spite
of this handicap, however, the story of the
lonely woman who is tortured on the rack
of misfortune and misunderstanding is por
trayed movingly, with Lilian Gish as a
pathetic Hester Prynne, Lars Hanson as a
somewhat attitudinising Dimmesdale and
Karl Dane really good as Gilos. The pond
ducking of the gossiping Mistress Ilibbin-
is one of the bright spots of the entertain-
ment.
v v
Reprehensibly bad management nearly
turned thrill into tragedy when the Nor-
wegian parachutist Q’viller dropped from an
aeroplane TOGO feet up into the sea at Bondi
last Saturday. Bondi, with all its carnivals,
has never had such a day ; when it was over
the departure of the 120,000 people who
lined the bay and cliffs was like the empty-
ing of Randwick racecourse. And probably
half of those who left thought that they
were leaving a drowned parachutist behind
them. The trouble arose through nobody
knowing, apparently, that the stunt artist
was going to test the air current with a
dummy before his own descent ; the almost
universal impression that the parachutist had
descended safely at Tamarama was respon-
sible for the departure of even the launches
which had been standing by to pick him out
of the water. The plucky Scandinavian made
his jump, probably reckoning that the air
currents would treat him as they did the
dummy. Instead, they blew him out to sea
and dropped him into the water five miles
out. At this point the stunt became a real
thrill for those who realised what had liap-'
pened. The signalman at South Head, who
saw more than anyone else, diverted an out-
going steamer and summoned the Captain
Cook to the rescue. Sharks and the threat-
ened storm held off, and the pilot steamer
finally brought Q’viller safe and sound to
Watson’s Bay. His escapade was billed
as an advertisement for the Coo-ee City
Carnival, which is being organised at the
Agricultural Ground for the Young Aus-
tralia league—it opens on Saturday. The
parachutist is only one of the escapadists to
appear there; the entertainment is to include
goat races, for which thoroughbred contest-
ants have arrived from Queensland.
* * s’fi *
Colored vaudeville is the main attraction
at Sydney Tivoli these days. This Showman
confesses that, since the days of Pope and
Sayles, he has failed to meet any dark
variety artists who have given him half as
much amusement as an equal number of
white entertainers; and there is nothing to
qualify that view in the attempts at comedy
of the “24 Dusky Stars.” Their dancing,
however, has merit. Ivy Anderson is a
white relief, although she strains after her
“peppiness” slightly ; and Dick Saunders pro-
vides some more dancing that calls for
approval.
Jim Gerald forsook “Pantomime Revels"
for revue last Saturday at Fullers’, Sydney,
the opening bill being “Don’t Tell the Wife.”
Gerald has not forgotten the way to be
funny without skirts, and Phyllis du Barry,
considerably improved in stage confidence,
has changed back from a Principal Boy to
“THE GIRL FRIEND,” AT SYDNEY
HER MAJESTY’S.
Leo Franklyn, as the dancing detective;
and Lorna Helms, as the ’phone girl.
“A CUCKOO IN THE NEST,” AT
MELBOURNE KING’S.
Minnie Rayner, as Mrs. Spoker, landlady
of the Stag and Hunt; Cyril Vernon, as
Major Bone.
a quite-charming flapper. Rene Dixon pro-
vides an unexpected bright patch in the
hotch-potch of quick-moving turns with a
solo dance.
An impending happening is the production
of “Twelfth Night” by Arthur Greenaway at
Sydney Conservatorium. A four days’ season
is to start on February 29. The Depart-
ment of Education is backing the venture.
A choice team of brass-blowers from
Hamilton, in the N.S.W. coal belt, proved
too good for a solid opposition in the Aus-
tralian band championship, fought out in
Sydney last week. Townsville (Q.) pro-
vided the second-best team.
H*
Mr. Moscovitch is a tragic actor, who
has had the misfortune to survive into an
age when there is very little demand for
great tragedy; consequently, the Russian, a
relatively fine artist, is constrained to look
for the role that suits him in the mystery
play. Even this, however, does not explain
the awfulness of the mystery plays he
chooses, possibly because the judgment often
goes astray when operating in a foreign
language. Which remarks are introductory
to “The Terror,” which is saying “Boo!”
nightly to packed but unintimidated houses
at Melbourne Royal. The play, whose pro-
blem is to establish the identity of a man
who is sane for 22 hours per diem and homi-
cidal for the rest, is accompanied by the
usual appeal to the audience not to blurt
out the silly secret to their friends. The
thing is so stereotyped, however, that it
babbles its solution from the moment Mr.
Moscovitch arrives in a pretentious state
of bogus intoxication as an unexplainable
boarder at a haunted priory. Guy Hastings
further blows the gaff on it by being another
boarder with a transparently opaque non-
chalance of manner. The issue is, of course,
postponed by the ghostly organ music, monks
emerging from the wainscot, murders occur-
ring at scheduled intervals and corpses
turning up according to time-table and at
the spot previously marked “X.” Mildred
Cottell, as a stage warning to the crime;-,
struck, contrives to import some humor
into a tripy dialogue, and Reginald New-
son and George Blunt are police officers out
of stock. Patric Curwen and Ashton Jarry
are two red herrings, of which there are
approximately a barrel; and Nat Madison, a
capable actor, achieves one moment of dis-
tinction when his throat is cut. Mary Mac-
gregor and Eileen Sparks are two fresh-
looking girls in idiotic parts. That Maurice
Moscovitch should offer himself as one likely
to evoke the passion of love in the latter
lady inspires melancholy reflections on the
obsessions that are liable to attack elderly
persons on the stage.
“A Cuckoo in the Nest,” which opened at
the King's Theatre, Melbourne, on Saturday
night, might advantageously have been better
cast and not so long drawn out. The plot,
which must be becoming familiar even to
those who haven’t read Ben Travers’s book,
finds Peter Wykeluim and Margaret Hickett
compelled to stay the night, posing as a
married couple, at a Somerset inn where
there is only one double bedroom. Peter’s
real wife, his “in-laws,” his lady friend’s
husband and a preposterous clergyman help
to complicate matters, all arriving at this
Arcadian rendezvous next morning to create
fresh tangles in order that the same may be
eventually straightened out. Hastings Lynn
takes the burden of the show upon his
shoulders; he has plenty of comedy talent
and may be forgiven for over-acting, seeing
that lie gets so little assistance from Helene
Simon, his dark-haired partner in a compro-
mising situation. Leslie Victor, as the Rev.
Sloley-Jones, and James Atliolwood as the
hotel rouseabout, live up to their reputations,
and Vera Gerald is the mostly dignified and
indignant Mrs. Bone. The show is nicely
staged, especially the scenes at the Stag
and Hunt Inn; but it might add to the
illusion of the rainfall if the heavy showers
could be coaxed down to the window-ledge
of the bedroom where such an uncomfortable
night is spent, and not end abruptly m
mid air.
* * * *
“There ain’t so very much to Liz, but what
there is, there is,” continues to be Ann
Suter’s most popular number with Melbourne
Tivoli audiences. The Bulletin still feel-
the same respect for the lady’s vulgar but
engaging art. Regarded as a weird, wild and
whirling caricature of the genus flapper she
is immense. It is caricature which, like all
good caricature, never lets you forget the
original. Other items are Le Martine and
Sherry, who dance well, and sing but
shouldn’t. Murray continues to get out of
the tight corners his own ingenuity devises
for him. Tom Katz and his saxophone band
are “Six Crooning Bell Boys” whom at least
one spectator would like to send on a long
errand.
* * *
A show that has been attracting much
attention from connoisseurs of art is the exhi-
bition of motor posters at Melbourne Athe-
naeum. Some of the local products are crude
in the extreme, though, when set in position,
they probably serve their purpose by success-
fully smiting the eye as it travels past at
GO m.p.h. The display of General Motors,
however, is very fine indeed, and Benson’s
picture of stately limousines rolling up on
a wet night to a Paderewski concert would
pass muster in an ordinary art show.
“Chang,” the movie which is interrupting
the sequence of stage-plays at _ Melbourne
Athenaeum, is one of those happy inspirations
which rarely visit the film business. The
cast comprises Kru, Chantui, Ladah and
Nah, a jungle family in Siam, and Bimbo,
a wawwaw monkey, who provides the comic
relief. Kru cuts a nick out of the jungle
and sets his basketwork house on stilts there-
in, whereupon creatures of the wild proceed
to make war upon the intruders and their
domesticated stock. Kru sets traps for the
marauders stud catches a baby elephant, thus
incurring the enmity of Chang, which is
presumably the Siamese for Jumbo. After
the mother of the baby has retrieved her off-
spring by removing the house to which it
has been tied, Kru goes to the nearest vil-
lage for assistance. But the herd comes
down like a range of perambulating moun-
tains and grinds the village in the dust.
The villagers thereupon organise a grand
hunt, build a stockade and drive the elephant.!
into it, which enables Kru to return to his
campaign against the jungle with ,a piece of
agricultural machinery in the shape of a.
tamed and massive Chang. For their material
the two white producers went into the jungle
and took wild-beast pictures. The natives
play their parts with ease and naturalness,
the personality of Chang, the villain, broods
over the tale with as much dramatic force
as an army of Adolphe Menjous, and Bimbo,
the monkey, evokes as much laughter as
Harold Lloyd. There is not a solitary repre-
sentative of Hollywood on the roll. Which
suggests that if Hollywood were abolished
pictures would automatically improve.
If the public would stay away from “The
Student Prince” at His Majesty’s, Melbourne,
it would be given an opportunity of seeing
Miss De Vries as “The Merry Widow”; pend-
ing that, the Dutch damsel will be Kathh
till the end of the season. “Robinson Crusoe”
is still making the top of Bourke-street look
as if the State’s educational system were
concentrated at the Princess. “Mother
Goose” will lay her last egg at the Play-
house on Friday.
“My Irish Cinderella,” which has been
drawing big houses to the Adelaide Royal,
is a blend of “Peg o’ my Lleart” and “The
Cinderella Man,” with a few variations
thrown in. Nellie Bramley is in her element
as Peggy McNeil; producer George Cross
plays the uncle Earl to the manner born,
and Kyle McAllister is the discerning lover,
a generous Australian millionaire. On Mon-
day the company moved on to the Prince of
Wales Theatre to make way for a new
comedy company, J. C. Williamson in con-
junction with Richard White and Eric Edg-
ley, with Frank Rradley as producer. Their
initial offering will be “The Sport of Kings."
At hhe Majestic “Farther and Father” pre-
sents more plot than the average revue;
Arthur Aldridge and Nat Hanley score top
marks, vocally and instrumentally. At the
Garden Theatre Pat Hanna’s Diggers could
do with warmer nights; Fred White, Joe
Valli and Pat himself are the fun-makers.
West’s Pictures are still showing “Seventh
Heaven” supported by “The Tasman Flight.”
In “The Night Bride,” at the Wondergraph
Theatre, a lady dressed to marry one man
runs away and hides in the coal cellar of
another, whose pyjamas and bath she com-
mandeers. The York isn’t big enough to
hold all those who want to see Mary Pick-
ford in “My Best Girl. At the Grand
Theatre Western drama holds the screen,
and Hoot Gibson plays the hero in Peter B.
Kyne’s “Galloping Fury.”


dsfdsfds
r
H
sz?
I's
so
'/n>
ITCHING
Iht TRANSPORT O
When the little £ note must go so far—and doesn’t; when a
truck is expected to do so many miles—and fails; when your
clients must get prompt delivery, and do not —then it is high
time you questioned the efficiency of your transport system.
Consider it from those viewpoints most necessary in a truck.
Is it economical? Is it fast? Is it reliable? Is it long-lived?
Is it Republic? There is no surer way to trouble-free
transportation, no safer method of ensuring up-to-the-
minute delivery, no saner solution to any transport problem,
than the installation of Republic. The economy of this
truck cannot fail to impress you. Its service will astonish
you, its reliability will delight you. Miles and miles of
haulage at an incredibly low cost —that is Republic. Ask
the Republic dealer in your territory to demonstrate this
truck to you. Permit him to show you the solution of your
problem.
In anticipation of your visit your district dealer will post
you all descriptive literature, purchase details, etc., in
advance. Please write or call.
I
G. R. 5.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Larke, Hoskins & Co. Ltd.,
177 to 185 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA.
Preston Motors Pty. Ltd.,
Cnr. Elizabeth and Therry Streets,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Rasch Motors Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
(Q’land.) Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Republic Truck Sales Co. Ltd.
905 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND.
(nglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Factory Distributors: W. A. Crowle, Ltd., Crowie House, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
dsf


Light Rolling
Straw Hats for Men
Only an ounce or two in
vJeight'alwajls cool. The
‘Airway’ has 36 air holes',
the ‘Tropical’ 24. Have
a fresh air treat. Order
now. cAIL Sizes.
The ‘Airway’
5/6
The “Tropic”
7/6
Pike Brothers Ltd.
In Queen StreU, Brisbane
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
In these days everybody is an investor.
You have a life policy. Is it really worth anything? Is the office
you are in sound?
Are the shares you hold in a solvent company?
“The Bulletin” has established “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” to discuss
these matters. Subscribers are invited to ask questions.
Published the first Saturday in each month. Price 2/- per copy;
22/6 per annum. From most newsagents, or direct from “The
Bulletin” Offices, Sydney and Melbourne.
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up
to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining 7.30,
12/6. Supper 10 p.m. till 1 a.m., 10/6.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 7.30 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.15 p.m.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret afternoon and evening.
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 5, 4/-;
parties of 6 upwards, 3/6.
Saturdays and holidays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M 3666.
BETRAYAL.
By-
GEORGE S.BEEBY.
YOU’RE the only person in this forsaken
corner of the world I can talk to —
and it’s time we talked of many
things.”
She was sitting, unclothed, before a mirror,
closely scrutinising her reflection.
•‘lt’s no good, my dear,” she continued;
: ‘tlie youngsters are right. That hair is not
auburn —they were justified in christening
you ‘Ginger.’ You’re not a beauty. The
skin is too highly colored, the upper lip too
short, the nose, in hesitating whether it
would be Grecian or Roman, finished up by
being just a nose. The eyes have no appeal-
ing color —more green than grey. The chin
is too prominent, and the forehead too
narrow. Below the throat there is no
blemish —you at least have the perfect form.
Why did those wdio were responsible for
you grow weary in well-doing and make a
botch of that portion of you which attracts
preliminary notice? And this place is send-
ing you crazy—always talking to yourself
and wandering alone about the hills. Take
a pull, my dear, or you will drift into one
of those places where patients claim to be
Caesar Borgia or Mary Magdalene—or
poached eggs. When you get there you will
label yourself a Cow or a Poddy Calf!”
She finished her toilet as the call for
breakfast sounded, and wandered into the
combined dining-room and kitchen, to par-
take of one of those terrifying meals with
the family.
Coady’s Creek, a dairying centre in the
Southern Coastal District of New South
Wales, could provide only enough children
for a provisional school. Sixteen pupils from
surrounding farms were wont to gather at
the schoolhouse which, with the post office,
constituted the town. For six months she
had droned her way through the days—days
of tedious routine, of mechanical effort to
educate children who resented the whole
business as an addition to the toil of the
cow bail. She had been forced by circum-
stances to board with the Mac Nabs —mother
and father and five children ranging in age
from sixteen to three years. They were
hardworking and worthy people, devoted
physically and mentally to the god of their
district —the eternal cow.
Ida Cunningham had accepted the appoint-
ment in desperation. Suddenly left entirely
to her own resources by the death of her
father, who had always been indulgent, but
careless of the future, she had applied for
an appointment as a “small school” teacher
and had gratefully accepted the first offer
made. But six months of .this isolation,
without mental companionship, had made her
morbidly introspective.
She found relief in constant physical
activity. Between Coady’s Creek and the
coast was a wide tract of undulating scrub
country not yet taken up by settlers. Into
this she disappeared on her Saturdays and
Sundays, exploring, observing. The coast-
line was some twelve miles distant and
difficult of access, but she was resolved to
reach it some day, even if it meant sleep-
ing in the bush for a night.
On this particular morning she was sur-
prised to find that the children had some-
things besides cows to talk about. A mounted-
police officer from the nearest town, twenty
miles distant, had crossed the creek in
search of an escaped prisoner. Billy, the
eldest boy, had been told that the bad man
had killed two women; his brother sup-
ported the story he had heard that the
runaway was only “a burglar” who had
stolen a lot of diamonds from the bank.
School that day simmered with excitement,
in which the teacher unconsciously partici-
pated. Repeatedly she found herself think-
ing of the wanted malefactor and trying not
•to sympathise with him in his break for
liberty. Just before recess the policeman
reined his horse at the school gates and
dismounted. He explained that the prisoner
who had escaped from custody was supposed
to be in hiding in the scrub along the Forty-
mile Beach. Would the teacher telephone
the police-station at Barlow if any of the
children from the surrounding farms saw a
stranger about? The man he was looking
for was young and well set up. He would
soon be forced out of the scrub to look for
food, and once he was located the Force
would quickly track him down.
“What was he arrested for?” she asked.
“Robbing a bank,” replied the officer. “Got
away with two thousand, but I’m more
concerned with the slur on the Force. He
fooled the arresting constable and broke
away two hundred miles up the coast. He
was seen leaving Barlow a few days ago,
heading for the big scrub." His parting
words were: “There is a good reward to be
earned, and you and the kids might share
it between you.”
Back in school the teacher said nothing to
her pupils. Why should she bring them into
a man-hunt? Why should she judge the
hunted man? After all, he was only escap-
ing, and wasn’t she possessed with a desire
to escape from her bondage? And there was
the insult of the hint that she might share
in the reward! The officer, young and un-
married, had not treated her as a girl—
had shown not a flicker of interest in her
except as an aid to re-establishing the honor
of the Force!
* * * *
The following Saturday Ida succeeded in
reaching the goal of her exploration. Shel
had plunged into the scrub at daybreak with
a well-filled knapsack on her shoulders, and,
after many hours of wild scrambling through
tangled undergrowth, found herself lying ex-
hausted but triumphant on a sand dune over-
looking the Forty-mile Beach. It was a
midsummer day. The trials of the journey
had been doubled by the heat, and a never-
ending contest with flies and bush mos-
quitoes. She changed into a bathing suit,
and, finding shelter from the sun, lay for
a long time in the path of a cool breeze.
Never had she thought there could be such
desolation. North and south the white beach
stretched to the furthest range of vision.
The wind had banked up the sand into dunes
and hollows, upon which coarse grass was
feebly struggling for existence. The fore-
shore was lined with stunted trees leaning
inwards under the pressure of never-ceasing
wind. The only signs of life were flocks of
seagulls, here and there scurrying on wide
stretches of sand as if in vain search of
food. Less than a mile away, however,
OUT OF THE CUPBOARD.
MAISIE: “He won’t let her wear a tight bathing
costume.”
RENE: “Why, I wonder?”
MAISIE: “Doesn’t want to let the world know there’s a family skeleton, I suppose."
there was a channel in the beach through
which the waters of a receding tide were
hurrying seaward.
Wandering along the beach, she followed
the channel inland, and found that it was
the entrance to a glorious sea lagoon—a
great shallow expanse of green water, in the
centre of which was an island, thickly
covered with scrub and forlorn stunted trees
which looked as though they had been strug-
gling for centuries to reach the height of
their more fortunate brethren on the main-
land.
She waded into the lagoon. A quarter of
a mile from the shore the water was breast
high; a few more yards and she found her-
self swimming steadily. Again she was con-
scious of the perfection of her body, of the
rhythm of its motions, as with easy stroke
she moved towards the island. But before
long she realised how deceptive visualised
distances were. The last hundred yards were
a test of endurance; but at last she reached
the island beach and in a shaded sand hollow,
moulded a couch and settled down for a
long rest before the homeward journey. .
“So here you are,” she said, breaking into
•what had become an inevitable monologue.
“We did it, my dear, but you’ll be uglier
than ever for the next month sunburned,
and the charm of that face of yours still
further concealed by blotches of insect
poison. And you must be honest with your-
self; you only succeeded because yon believe
that somewhere along this terrible beach a
man who knows of other things than cows
and poddies may be concealed.”
A voice as if in answer, harsh and com-
manding, came from a hollow behind her.
"Don’t look round,” it said, “and answer
the questions I put to you. Why have you
come here?”
“To escape from cows and poddies, was
her laconic reply.
“Who are you?”
1 “School ma’rm from Coady s Creek —out
for a walk.”
“You are helping the police in a man-
hunt?”
“No. But I am curious, to meet the man
they are hunting.”
“Expecting a slice of the reward, I sup-
pose?”
She did not answer that question.
“No one will ever collect that reward, ’ the
voice continued.
“I know that I won’t,” was her reply,
“and if I can help you, no one else will.”
“You would help me to escape?”
“I can’t do much, but I don’t want them
to catch you.”
“Why?”
“Because I am a prisoner myself and
know how strong is the desire to escape
bondage of every kind.”
“I dare not show myself in daylight. If
you can get here, others can, and I won’t
be taken. Come into the hollow immediately
behind you.”
She obeyed, and found herself in the com-
pany of a ragged, bearded man who belied
the police officer’s description, “young and
well set up.” Weeks of solitude and ex-
posure had taken all the youth out of him,
and his eyes gleamed with the ferocity of
desperation. For the first moment of her
adventurous day she experienced a tremor
of fear.
“Having gone so far,” he said, “I’ll go
the wdiole distance. If you’re helping the
police”
“I told you I am not helping them,” she
interrupted.
“Then why did your walk bring you in
this direction?”
“I have often tried to reach this beach,
before ever you came here. This time I got
through.”
“But I heard you talking. You knew I
was somewhere along here?”
“I thought you might be. I brought food
for you—not much, but real food in small
compass, and I came to tell you, if we met,
that the search for you is still going on.
“I wonder if I can trust you?” he askeo.
“Look at me,” she replied, "you can always
trust an ugly woman.”
For the first time he seemed aware that
it was a woman he was talking to. He
looked at her steadily for a moment before
replying.
“You’re not a beauty, are you t he re-
marked, and a moment afterwards was mut-
tering an apology. “I didn’t mean that” -
“Of course you meant it, and don’t apolo-
gise. And don’t let us wander from the
business in hand. It is a whim of mine to
help you escape. I can’t quite explain it
even to myself, but I don’t want them to
get you.”
They crept from the beach into the scrub,
where she found he had constructed a rude
camp. He explained that lie stayed there in
the daytime—lived largely on fish and
occasionally was guilty of small the|ts at
night time from the nearest farms. She at
last asked him bluntly why lie had become a
refugee. It was a' simple story. lie had
always wanted to roam the world, but cir-
cumstances forced him into routine oliice
work, and for ten years he had been a bank
clerk. Lack of interest in liis work had
placed him on the list of the bank stall s
mediocrities, who were always sent to country
branches. The chance had come to make a
breakaway with enough money to provide
for his needs for years to come while he
wandered about the world. He had just
succeeded in getting the money safely planted
when an unexpected visit of the bank in-
spector disclosed his peculations and forced
him to abscond. And here he was in hiding.
Down in Sydney the money could be picked
up, if he once got there —and then the whole
world was waiting for him. lie was not
repentant. The bank could make up the loss
without reducing its dividends. To escape
the life to which he had been chained one
desperate venture was worth while. If he
failed there was a quick way out of all
bondage. He had no quarrel with indivi-
duals, but would not scruple to injure, or
even to kill, anyone who betrayed him —
“any sneak,” he muttered, “who would give
me away for a measly, reward. Now you
know everything,” he concluded, “what will
you do?”
“For the present I will help you, she
replied. “If at any time I change my mind
I will tell you. But I will never betray
you.”
She then explained where the store of food
could be found, and, promising to come again
with more, swam back to the main beach.
For the next few days the absconder could
not forget his glimpse of that graceful figure
moving without apparent effort towards the
mainland.
* * * *
Next week’s schooling was more mechani-
cal than ever. The children sensed their
teacher’s preoccupation and slackened appal-
lingly. The bad man in the scrub was the
constant theme of conversation, and each
day a more extravagant story as to his
crimes and the awful punishment awaiting
him was in circulation. A couple of the
neighbors came across to the.MacNabs and
complained of the depredations of some
thief, and warned the teacher to abandon her
excursions into the scrub.
At last Saturday came again and once
more the girl reached the sand-dune. On
this occasion there was no need to go further,
as the man was waiting for '* her in an
adjacent sand hollow. When she produced
tobacco from a well-packed knapsack his
thanks were profuse. She was conscious of
a change in his attitude. The harshness had
gone from his voice. He eagerly sought news
of what was going on in the outside world,
and treated her with a deference which, at
moments, was too profuse. She found her-
self noticing that he had smartened his
appearance, and that, except for a rather
loose mouth, he was a man who would be
picked out of a crowd as good-looking. He
avoided her efforts to probe into his own
history, and she found it necessary to resist
his efforts to discuss her private affairs. He
still expressed no regret for the action which
had made him a fugitive from justice.
“Why not return the money,” she asked
before leaving—“take what punishment is
coming to you and make a fresh start?”
But it was useless. “I’m going through
with it to the end,” he replied. “I didn’t
act on impulse. I knew the risks. I know
they still exist. But I won’t turn back.”
When school resumed on Monday the
children again noticed the change in their
teacher. She was still absent-minded- and
indifferent to their observance of rules, but
all the harshness seemed to have gone out
of her. A few days later _ the mounted
officer again called at Coady’s Creek and
stopped at the sehoolhouse.
“I hear,” he said, “you’ve been trying to
earn that reward —scouring the scrub for
the runaway.”
(Continued on page 53.)


(gitadicm BiciflcljateV
p
Chdmu,
Fhwtf**:
x*
wiiSP'
S»S
1
Ms#** *
M5
PI
fr,t.
yoiifo
res*t awhile
'wudrt /hp a/ories
of'Ccmada
ALONG the Canadian Pacific route from Van-
couver to Quebec a chain of 15 wonderful
C.P.R. hotels offer a distinctive service to people
of taste who desire exceptional comfort in travel.
To stay at these hotels, with their every modern con-
venience, assures the traveller of the renowned Canadian
Pacific service from beginning to end of his journey to
England.
Learn more of these magnificent hostels by writing for free illustrated
literature and particulars to any office, Union S.S. Co., of New
Zealand, any Tourist Booking Agency, or J. Sclater, Traffic Manager
for Australia and New Zealand, CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY, Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN
IT SPANS THE WORLD
PACIFIC.
L'
Qvclists!
IP you wish your mount
to be a real source of
pleasure and delight you
will use the utmost care in
the selection of the Hubs.
No bicycle can give you
real service unless these
component parts
are perfect.
Smooth and silky
running,long
wear and per-
fectly safe braking
are insured by
the fitting of the
Berry Improved
Coaster in con-
junction with
the
Perry front hub.
Behind both these articles
is a manufacturing experi-
ence extending over many
years, a close and intimate
m
acquaintance with the
Cyclist’s needs and a repu-
tation second to none in the
Cycle Component World.
Few, very few Cyclists, are
there who do not know of
Perry Productions, but only
experience of
their actual ser-
vice will lead to
full appreciation
of their merits
and exclusive
features.
You may not -
have had that
experience,
therefore, for
your greater comfort and
enjoyment when awheel,
we suggest you put
yourself in touch with
our
Factory Representative: Johfl AtHoldj
DeGi'&vcs Street, Melbourne
' Box 871., G.P.O
Co
perry
fO e
SoPZ
Ib*
m.
SUNBEAM fame is world wide. Time and again
Sunbeam efficiency has upheld British prestige
on Land, Sea and in the Air, just as it has
brought lasting satisfaction to innumerable motorists.
For overseas markets the 1 6-h.p., 20-h.p. and
25-h.p. models are specially recommended. They
are being shipped to and are giving satisfaction in
every part of the world.
For export, all Sunbeam Cars have standard
track, a ground clearance of 9" at the lowest point,
special springing and a larger radiator with fan to
ensure perfect riding and adequate cooling under all
conditions.
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, LTD., 205-207 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUSTRAL MOTORS, LTD., Corner Hay and Pier Streets, Perth ; and Queen Victoria
Street, Fremantle.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 09 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
MANUFACTURERS:
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Wolverhampton, England.
SPECIAL EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l.
Cables: “SUBEAMOCO,” London.
This lather’s
moisture
soaks the
beard soft.
If shaving is uncomfortable,
don’t be too quick to blame
your razor. Often the sha-
ving lather is to blame. A
free sample of Williams
Shaving Cream will convince
you that the right shaving
lather will end razor pull,
will actually leave your face
feeling better than it did
before shaving.
Williams lather softens the
beard completely because it
is saturated with moisture
that soaks the stubble soft
for easier, more comfortable
shaves. Furthermore, Wil-
liams lubricates the razor’s
path, eliminates the razor’s
tendency to nick the skin.
Williams leaves the skin
thoroughly conditioned,
smooth as a glove.
The Shave Perfect
with Aqua Velva.
The new after shaving liquid,
Aqua Velva, keeps the face
as comfortable all day as
Williams leaves it con-
serves the natural moisture
in the skin.
Williams
Shaving Cream
Williams Shaving Cream costs 2/-
per tube. Williams Holder Top
Shaving Stick 2/- and re-loads with
the threaded metal ring which fits
easily in the old holder, 1/6.
Send 3d. to Frazer &
Best, Ltd., Dept. 5.8.3,
Box 262 1 G.P.0.,
Sydney, for samples
of Williams Shaving
Cream and Aqua
Velva, the new after-
shaving liquid.


mmm
m
6?
-
m
m
For full figures Model 1505,
very light weight. Firmly
boned at back only with un-
breakable rustless, spiral
steels. Finished in delicate
pink coutil. This mcdel is
made to caress the figure
rather than restrain it—it
smooths the lines and gives
the desired fiat back effect.
Another view of Model 1505
for full figures. Note the
cunningly placed diagonal
honing on the abdomen sup-
port — this gives maximum
firmness with the minimum of
weight. The double elastic
inserts over the hips give ease
and freedom of movement.
Six hose supporters.
Model 1211 a Wrap-Round
for slimmer figures-ideal for
sports and dancing or every-
day use. Fitted with elastic
inserts over hips giving com-
fort and flexibility. Finished
in delicate pale pink floral
coutil. Beautiful quality and
workmanship. 2 his model
affords adequate support for
the type of figure able to wear
it. Four hose supporters.
Retailer’s Profit
RETAILERS who realize that corsets are not a relic
of last century —that they are more important now
than ever before —that they settle the fit and look
of women's clothes and the daily comfort she enjoys—
these retailers will stock “ Twit fit”
“ Twilfit y> Corsets are Good—they have exclusive
features that make them conform to fashion very com-
fortably, and their workmanship, material and finish
conform to the highest standard of British production.
We need more retailers. Write to-day for full particu-
lars of the range and prices of the quality corset —
“ Twilfit ”
Sole Distributors
LYALL WILLIS & CO., LTD.
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Melbourne, Sydney. '
dsf
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
“THE WOMAN'S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price - - 3d.
"Yes,” she replied, “but the scrub forest
is a big place.”
“Well, you needn’t look any longer; the
scoundrel has been traced to Gippsland.
We’re hot on his tracks and will get him in
a few days.”
She remembered later that for the first
time the officer was disposed to linger.
"This country life is agreeing with you,”
he remarked; “you’re looking fine. What
about coming in to the Hospital Ball at
Barlow next week? I'm looking for a
partner.”
The next Saturday saw her again at the
rendezvous behind the sand-dune. She told
the fugitive that extra police were scour-
ing the district and urged him to stay on the
island till she came again. On her way back
to the creek she found herself repeating
something he had said. “I wonder whether
I would have acted differently if I had met
a girl like you before?”
Lite had suddenly changed from a round
of drab routine to the unfolding of a vista
of romance.
* * * *
Then Coady Creek enjoyed the rare luxury
of a thrill. One Saturday evening Teacher
did not return from her walk. On the
Sunday afternoon a party of farmers were
just setting out for the scrub as a search
party when she reappeared and offered a
casual explanation that she had lost her
way and been forced to sleep in the bush.
But that night, in the secrecy of her own
room, she again sat for a long time talking
softly to the reflection in her mirror.
“Well, my dear,” she crooned, “what you
have lost I cannot say; but I don’t care, I
don’t care! You found the lover you have
dreamed of, clean ind straight-limbed, strong
yet weak, fierce yet gentle—and there is
no doubt that he loves you for yourself! No
man who said the things he said could be
lying.
For the following days she lived on the
memory of that break of dawn on the island.
She realised now that the time had come
for swift action. The people of Coady’s
Creek were speculating on the real reason
for her mysterious visits to the scrub, and
she was conscious of a change of attitude of
the Mac Nabs. But one more visit to the
beach must be made. She deliberately spent
the next Saturday and Sunday at the farm;
but on the Monday, which happened to be
a school holiday, she stole from her room
before sunrise. She found that her lover
had reached the limit of endurance and was
ready for any desperate enterprise. He had
evolved a plan of escape for both of them
—one which, by reason of its display of
perfect trust, filled her with delight. She
was to call at a certain place in Sydney and
get possession of the stolen money. Later
he would join her at a rendezvous to be indi-
cated by cypher advertisement in a personal
column. By some means they would get
out of the country, and then they would
wander about the world together!
* ❖ sje &
Out at Canterbury Mrs. Atkins had often
thought of the nicely-spoken lodger who had
only stayed with her a w T eek, and had then
been called away to the country. He had
left a large trunk with her, on the under-
standing that if he did not call for it within
three months it was to be handed over to
anyone presenting an order for delivery. He
had paid her quite handsomely for three
months’ storage, and the three months had
expired. Thereupon she had opened the
trunk, and, finding it was closely packed
with books, decided to stow it in a lumber-
room for a few weeks longer.
One evening a girl called with a letter
from the lodger. She was his sister, she
explained, about to join her brother in
another town. There was no reason to doubt
her authority, and the lady left with the
trunk.
Two hours later, in another house in
another suburb, Ida Cunningham was sitting
on. the floor of a furnished apartment sur-
rounded by books. In her hands was tin
cover of a volume from which the printed
matter had been carefully removed. Between
the covers were closely packed bundles of
banknotes of low denomination.
The general manager of one of Sydney’s
greatest banking corporations was puzzled.
The rule of the bank was that no stranger
could meet the manager on business without
setting out in writing the purpose of the
interview. But a woman had been haunting
the outer office for two days, refusing to
follow the rule, and insisting that her busi-
ness was personal and could only be attended
to by the manager.
“What sort of person is this?” he asked
his attendant.
“She is a young woman, sir,” was the
answer. “I can’t exactly place her. Very
plain to look at, but speaks well.”
“Show her in,” he ordered. “And when I
ring break the interview any way you like.”
“Well, young woman,” said the manager
as soon as his persistent caller was seated,
“you got through, after all. What is it?”
“Which,” she asked, “is the more import-
ant to you? Getting back a large sum of
money stolen from a bank or sending the
man who stole it to gaol?”
“We like to get both if possible—the
money and the man.”
“In the case I am interested in I can
secure a return of the money if you with-
draw the prosecution.”
“You are interested in Lewis Charlton?”
“I am his sister.”
“He had no sister. We know his family
history.”
“Very well. He is my lover.”
“And you think he is worth saving?”
“He is no more a criminal than you or I.”
“Leave me out of your comparisons—
please. He planned an ingenious robbery,
and just as ingeniously avoided arrest. But
in the end lie must stand his trial.”
“You will never get him alive. I know that.”
“That’s his affair,” was the harsh reply.
“And do you know that I can send you to
gaol for making this offer?”
“I took that risk,” she answered quietly,
and placed the rolls of notes on the desk.
“There is the money.”
“Why didn’t he bring the money himself?”
asked the manager. “I detest cowards who
make tools of women.”
“He doesn’t know that I intended to
restore the money.”
“Do you expect me to believe that?”
“Yes. You must believe me.”
He looked at her steadiiy and believed.
“I’m sorry,” lie said, “for you. But this
restitution will make no difference. We
never compromise with dishonest members of
our staff.”
In later days the manager never could
quite satisfy his conscience as to why he
yielded. The girl had, without tears or sen-
timental appeal, put her case with quiet
intensity. She claimed that she understood
the absconder and knew that, underneath, he
was fine. She drew a vivid picture of the
effect of life in those awful back-country
towns —how the loneliness, the lack of com-
panionship leads to brooding, sometimes to
loss of mental balance. With her at his
side this man could be brought back. Gaol
would finish him—and her. He yielded at
last, and, as she left, wished her good luck.
“But, my girl,” he said, “don’t be too
confident. I know more of human nature
than you do. I know much more of this
young man than you do. He has a bad
streak in him. You may cut it out —but
you may not.”
* * * *
The great moment of her life had arrived.
He was to come that night and she would
be able to tell him that lie was no longer
a fugitive. Together they would start
afresh, with love of each other to drive
them to great achievement. Some of her
little hoard of savings had been spent on a
frock which displayed the beauty of her
form; the dingy little room was bedecked
with flowers.
His entry shocked her. He came, not as
the eager lover, but furtively—as one pos-
sessed with fear. His greeting was casual.
His first questions were: —
“Is this a safe place? Have you got the
money?”
And then she told him of the wonders she
had accomplished. He was no longer an
outcast. He could walk with head erect
amongst other men. She would work wfith
him and for him, and together they would
make a glorious adventure of life.
“You’re a genius!” he cried exultantly.
“No one but you could have put it over oid
Gordon. But the money! The money!
You’ve got it! When can we get out of this
damned country?.... I won’t feel safe till
we’re beyond the three-mile limit.”
For the first time since they had parted on
the island misgiving assailed her.
“The money has been returned,” she
replied with hesitation; “but not till I was
sure that there would be no prosecution.”
And then in a flash the little world she had
created crumbled to pieces. The lover of the
sand-dunes died in a moment and she was
again alone —-desolate.
“So you betrayed me, after all,’ he
snarled —“you cheap little trollop! I took
all that risk, endured those three months in
Hell, to be turned adrift again without a
shilling! By you ! You, with your pro-
fessions of loyalty!”
“But our love!” was her last despairing
cry, “that is left.”
“Love!” His laugh of derision cut like
a whip. “Men don’t love such as you.
They only use them and pass on to others
with some claim to decent looks. Did you
think you were worth two thousand
pounds.... and what you have deprived me
of? What’s to become of me now? Did you
think of that, you sentimental idiot?”
“Please *go now ! Go! I understand !
Oh Go! Go!”
“Go where?” he asked, “what place is
there for me except a penny doss-house?
I’ll stay here to-night and decide what’s to be
done to-morrow.”
Then it was his turn to be afraid.
“If you stay here any longer,” she said,
“you will never leave this room alive. I
bought this to kill myself with if they caught
you.”
He saw that there was no tremor m the
hand which held the threatening revolver,
and slunk from the room muttering a final
curse on the treachery of women.
The Hunting Horn.
The huntsman blows his hunting horn
Far underneath the sea ;
Deep down in waters swirling green,
Where dark the drownhd forests lean,
The huntsman blows his hunting horn,
That echoes in the stilly morn
Clear over Selsey Lea.
The traveller in the dawning bound
Across the misty lea
Will pause to hearken, chill with fear,
And trembles on the wind to hear,
Above the hunting horn’s shrill sound,
The baying of a ghostly hound
From out the autumn sea.
The old king hunts this dimply morn
Down in the murky sea.
The startled stag has leapt to hear
The tumult of the chase draw near,
While through the wood the hunting horn
Uplifts its clamor in the morn
Far over Selsey Lea.
Yet nigh a thousand years have gone
Since on the windy lea
The huntsman blew his horn to tell
The king would hunt by down and dell—
His horn of oak and mottled bone
That merrily with clarion tone
Bang to the rippling sea.
Long was the chase and wild and swift
Beside the lonely sea ;
And none beheld the mounting wave
That came from out the east and drave
Across the sands with eager drift
Or marked the seething waters lift
Their crests on Selsey Lea.
Deep all are held beneath the flood
That burst on Selsey Lea —
The old king, hunting in the morn,
The huntsman with his mottled horn,
The panting stag that in wild bounds
Fled fast before the ruthless hounds
Out to the hungry sea.
Yet, when the autumn eves are chill,
And grey is Selsey Lea,
The traveller hears a fearsome sound—•
The baying of a ghostly hornd,
A hunting horn blown clear and shrill
Through drownbd forests, dark and still.
Beneath the murky sea.
N.s.w.
LILLA GORMHUILLE McKAY.


More Car For Your Money
Compare the Chrysler“so ’’with
any other car in its price class and
you will instantly see that it offers
far more —in sheer performing
ability; in the ruggedness of its
chassis and body; its remarkable
fuel economy; its full-sized room-
iness; its captivating beauty and
its downright value.
Come and see the Chrysler “50”
—if for no other reason than
as a standard of comparison.
Full'sized, with ample
family seating capacity;
Mohau>plush upholstering;
52 miles and more an hour;
5 to 25 miles in 8 seconds;
Endurance and Economy.
CHRYSLER “50
BUILT AS ONLY CHRYSLER BUILDS
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd., Grewille House, William Street, Sydney,
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.


WE ARE THE AGENTS
bulldog "
HAMMER LESS
the
GREAT
AT
GUN
LOW PRICE
THE BULLDOG is the Wonder Gun for £B/10/*.
Quadruple bolted with side clips, fluid steel barrels,
guaranteed Government tested for any charge.
It fits the shoulder perfectly, and is beautifully
balanced.
HOLLOWAYS are the Rolls Royce of English Guns.
Nothing to touch them in the field or over the traps.
World famous, £l2 to £65.
THE FOX D.B. —Wonderful Hammerless, with or
without Ejector. They kill at remarkable distances,
£l3 and £l5.
WESTERN ARMS CO. Guns, £4 and £6. Great
Field Guns. A Week’s Free Trial Given.
Obtainable everywhere, or write the agents for
catalogue.
S. COHEN, SONS Gc CO. PTY., LTD.,
Hardware Merchants, 262 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
Agents wanted where not represented.
YOU MUST LIKE TO BE POOR
if you earn money and spend it.
Don’t!
Earning money is NOT easy, but saving is, if you’ve any
strength of mind at all.
Ensure against the future by opening a Savings Account.
The Money you save will earn Interest as long as you do
not urgently need it for any other purpose—it will be immediately
available to you when you do.
Every Post Office is a Savings Agency of the
Corarnonwcaltb lank of Rustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
I
FOR ALL
EMERGENCIES-
NEVER FAIL
took (m (lit Trademark! A|M> Ewrylwo
Writt for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
INCAPACITY.
BY
GM.TURNBULL.
RUNNER, sah. From Port Moresby,
sah.”
Kershaw 7 whistled. “My leave!”
lie muttered hopefully. But an inner voice
cautioned him not to be an ass. A special
runner to acquaint a junior district officer
of the fact that his application for sick leave
had been granted—it was too absurd.
"Righto, Sergeant,” he said aloud. “Send
him in.”
He took the long, blue envelope the runner
handed him and dismissed the man curtly.
“The Assistant Resident Magistrate. Mat-'
anata” he read. “Mr. Horace T. Badger,
M.H.R., will visit your station on or about
the 16th inst. Mr. Badger desires to make
accurate acquaintance with the customs,
superstitions, ways of thinking and mode of
life of the various tribes of natives, w 7 ith
the object of incorporating the results of
his observations in a book to be entitled
‘Papua from Within.’ It is unnecessary to
state that the Administration sympathises
deeply with so admirable a project, and you
are requested, therefore, to place the re-
sources of your station at Mr. Badger’s
disposal, remembering that lie is a distin-
guished guest of the Administration,” etc.,
etc.
“My God!” he muttered feebly. “A
politician!”
* * * *
The shabby little coastal steamer fussed
importantly into Matanata Bay, a spear-
head of fleecy spray at her hows, a widening
fan of snowy foam in her wake, and W 7 ith a
rattle of chain came to anchor. Kershaw
put off in the station whaleboat.
The skipper stayed on the bridge when
Kershaw scrambled aboard. His rubicund
face wore a faintly defiant expression. Ilis
brows were drawn up in a heavy frown. He
winked solemnly at Kershaw, spat reflec-
tively over the side, and rested his arms upon
the rail in the attitude of an interested
spectator.
A heavily-built bull of a man of 40-odd,
dressed in rumpled white drill, stood on the
forward hatch. He had hard, brassy eyes
of indeterminate color set in a dead, white,
fleshy face, enormous ears and a red-lipped
gash of a mouth.
“Mr. Badger, I presume?” Kershaw opened
with immense respect. The fat man re-
garded him appraisingly for a second or two.
“The same,” he said at last.
Kershaw found himself shaking a flabby,
lifeless, white hand.
“My name is Kershaw,” he began. “I
have received”
“You look sick, young man,” the other
interrupted.
“I’ve had rather a severe bout of fever,”
Kershaw told him. “If you’ll point out
your gear, Mr. Badger, I’ll”
“Take more exercise, young man. That is
the secret of good health in the tropics.
‘Mens sana? and so on, if you follow me,
young man. Learn to take hold of yourself
—don’t get soft, indolent; don’t drift; shake
off the emasculating shackles of the native
servant; learn to be self-reliant; stand on
your own”——
■‘But, I say, you know” Kershaw cut
in bewilderedly. “I assure you”
“And avoid strong drink, young man,” Mr.
Badger continued, his eyes fixed on a spot
about three inches above the crown of Ker-
shaw’s helmet. “Fever is too often but a
euphemism for what is known as ‘whiskyitis.’
Don’t be a rum-guzzler, young man; conquer
the craving for alcohol before it”
it all!” Kershaw exploded.
“No swearing, young man! Understand
once and for all that I—will—not —tolerate
bad language.” Mr. Badger glared severely
at the now thoroughly annoyed A.R.M.
“Furthermore, young man, I am given to
understand that the moral standards”
“Shall we go ashore, Mr. Badger?” Ker-
shaw broke in icily. “If these trunks
are”
“Don’t be a whisky-swilling Don Juan,
young man. If you want the natives’ respect,
you must earn it.” Mr. Badger blew out
his cheeks, and raised himself on his toes.
“Set your face sternly against the grosser
pleasures, young man—the daughters of
Ham, the dusky Delilahs of the villages,
With a feeble groan Bill Kershaw turned
on his heel. He felt that he was going to
dislike his guest very intensely indeed.
“Sergeant!” The concentrated ferocity in
his voice made the sergeant jump. “Shake a
leg there, and get the taubada’s gear aboard !”
Mr. Badger, a little breathless, but still
talking with undiminished zeal, got into the
whaleboat. Kershaw stared dumbly at the
skipper. In his eyes were subtleties of dis-
may. The skipper spat again over the side
and bestowed upon Kershaw a most porten-
tous wink.
He seemed very much amused.
From that time onward a bewildering
sense of helplessness haunted the soul of
Bill Kershaw 7 , A.R.M. Normally a good-
natured, easy-going fellow 7 , he became sub-
ject to fits of irascibility, a certain furtive-
ness of manner grew upon him, and in his
eyes dwelt a haunted look. He was being
battered by words, pounded by platitudes,
submerged in a sea of turgid oratory. Goaded
beyond endurance he defended himself by
flippancy, airy badinage, heavy sarcasm, but
he might as well have spared his breath.
He pressed blue-books, reports, maps and
native vocabularies upon his visitor in a
desperate attempt to stem the torrent, but
Mr. Badger waved them all aside. He was
obviously out to impart information, not to
acquire it.
Eventually Kershaw became morosely
resigned. He gave Mr. Badger his head; sur-
rendered to him horse, guns and foot. He
became a public meeting.
One morning the sergeant found Kershaw
in the office in gloomy contemplation of a
pile of papers that clamored for attention.
“The taubada sing out ’long you, sah,”
the sergeant informed him.
“Eh?” replied Kershaw abstractedly.
“The new-fella taubada, sah,” the ser-
geant explained patiently. “The fat one,
sah ; the Man-of-Many-Words.”
With dragging footsteps and sinking heart
Kershaw went back to the residency. Mr.
Badger blew out his cheeks, placed the tips
of his fingers together, and fixed Kershaw
with a cold eye.
“Young man” he began.
Kershaw winced. Always that was the
damnable and ever-recurring opening.
“Young man, I have here a message”—
Kershaw brightened perceptibly—“a mesr
sage, young man, containing what I may
term felicitations in the nature of a birth-
day greeting to my wife. Now, the difficulty
with which I am confronted”
“Send a radio,” Kershaw interrupted
shortly.
Mr. Badger stared. “Am I to understand,
young man, that it is possible to communi-
cate with the outside world by means of”
“Why not?” Kershaw 7 retorted. He took
the slip of paper from Badger, scanned it,
and put it in an envelope.
“This will cost you three shillings,” he
said. He went to the verandah rail.
“Sergeant!” he called.
The sergeant stumped in, saluted, and
stood stiffly at attention. Kershaw handed
him the sealed envelope.
“Wireless station, Sergeant,” he said
crisply.
BANG!
“You do look bonnie to-day, darling?”
“Yes, I’ve discovered that faint complexion
ne’er won fair husband.”
■ “Wi’less stasin. Yessah.” The sergeant
saluted, wheeled and marched out. Kershaw
returned thankfully to the office.
Two hours later Mr. Badger trailed him
there.
“Young man; I have here a”
“Another radio? Hand it over,” Kershaw
said.
“An. extremely important and confiden-
tial”—
“Sergeant!” roared Kershaw’.
The sergeant stiffened.
“This will cost you ten bob,” Kershaw
remarked. He passed the envelope to the
waiting native.
“Wireless station, Sergeant.”
“Wi’less stasin. Yessah.” The sergeant
saluted and vanished.
Kershaw escaped into the compound.
Mr. Badger was in excellent form that
night. Kershaw was frankly and ostentati-
ously fed up. The soft tropic night en-
folded the earth; a fragrance of flowers,
heavy as incense, hung in the air. Mr.
EASILY SATISFIED.
“Now don’t forget to write, dear—if it’s
only a couple of lines on a cheque.”
Badger was propounding a theory which, lie
modestly affirmed, would revolutionise
administrative methods in Papua.
“I have observed, young man,” lie was
droning, “that the native police are indolent,
slovenly, and, I may venture to assert, in-
efficient. They have, I am quite prepared to
admit, a surface appearance of”
“Taubada!”
Kershaw excused himself hastily and dis-
appeared in the back regions. When he
returned he was rubbing his hands together,
and his lineaments had taken on an expres-
sion almost cherubic.
“I’m afraid I shall have to leave you on
the station for a few days,” he said, striving
to mask his abounding joyousness. “I’ve
received bad news—very bad neWs, indeed.
The Tarori people have been raising Cain
in the mountains —raiding, head-hunting and
so forth, y’know. Bad business —very.” He
started to whistle, then checked himself
abruptly. “I’ll leave the sergeant and a
couple of men with you, also my cook. I’ll
turn in now, if you don't mind. Must
make an early start to-morrow, y'know.”
Mr. Badger was still abed when, early
next morning, Kershaw and his detachment
set out for the hills. The magistrate’s
shoulders were squared, his chin was up,
and he was whistling blithely.
During the ensuing days time hung heavy
on the hands of Mr. Badger. He grew fret-
ful, irritable; he snapped at the sergeant,
snarled at the cook and kicked Kershaw’s
dog. For perhaps the first time in his life,
Mr. Badger had nobody to talk at.
One afternoon, as the shadows were length-
ening, he wandered into the compound. The
sergeant was issuing rations to the prisoners.
“Sergeant,” Mr. Badger said impressively,
“I shall take a short stroll. D’you under-
stand, my man? A walk, a constitutional. I
shall go, Sergeant, to the radio-telegraph
station for the purpose of—oh, what’s the
use of talking to you, you stupid, black
fool ?”
The sergeant grinned amiably but a little
doubtfully.
“Yessali. T’ank you, sail,” he said.
Mr. Badger glared at him.
“Idiot!” he snarled.
“Yessah,” the sergeant beamed. “Me, sab.”
Mr. Badger flung himself through the gate
of the compound. The Papuan Armed Con-
stabulary ! What a farce it was! What a
shocking waste of public money! Manned by
imbeciles, officered by half-educated, impudent
young pups; overpaid, overfed, underworked
—no wondelr ignorance, elemental barbarism,
vice stalked abroad in the land!
A well-defined track led into the jungle.
Mr. Badger waddled along, filling his lungs
with great gulps of warm, moist air. It was
high time a trained intelligence was brought
to bear on Papua’s administrative problems.
In every aspect of government was evidence
of drift, slothfulness, incapacity. He had
no feeling for these Papuan jacks-in-office
save one of tolerant contempt. Their nar-
row vision had appalled him, their self-com-
placency had dismayed him. They would have
to go—half of them —if the country was not
to remain for ever a drain on the Federal
Treasury.... By George, it was hot!
The track wound in and out among the
forest trees on a stiffly rising grade. Mr.
Badger was perspiring profusely. His shirt
became sodden, beads of sweat hung on his
forehead and trickled into his eyes, half-blind-
ing him. He sat down on a creeper-covered
log, breathing heavily. It was farther than
he had expected, the wireless station, much
farther. A golden-brown sinuous something
writhed across the track and disappeared in
the undergrowth, hissing faintly. Mr. Bad-
ger’s heart somersaulted, lie scrambled hur-
riedly to his feet and moved on. The jungle
closed in on both sides like cliffs of living
green. Here and there flamboyant orchids,
livid ferns, mottle-leaved creepers clung to the
branches. The air was charged with a dozen
mingled perfumes, and colorful beauty rioted
about him.
But Mr. Badger was conscious only of the
gasping heat. Perspiration was trickling
from his finger-tips, it poured in streams
down his body, his clothing was drenched
and breathing was ever-increasingly difficult.
Overhead the twisted foliage met in an inter-
laced mass of clinging lianas, forming a
canopy through which filtered sunlight
trickled. Until now, save for an occasional
bird note and an eerie rustling among the
trees, the air had been intensely still.
Abruptly the silence was shattered by the
shrill chorus of myriads of insects saluting
the setting sun. It grew rapidly darker.
Mr. Badger developed a limp. He found
himself stumbling into tangled masses of
fern, giant lawyer-vines clutched at him,
ropes of snake-like creepers tripped him.
This was a main road, he told himself bit-
terly, a Papuan Government highway leading
to Good God! How far was that in-
fernal wireless station?
Night descended. It was as though the
sun had been snuffed out by a giant hand.
Mr. Badger flopped down in the track and
uttered a profound sigh. Something light as
thistle-down, chill as the breath of death,
brushed against his face. Mr. Badger yelped
in sudden terror. He stood up, swaying,
glaring about him with fear-dilated eyes. He
thrust his head forward, listening intently
with straining ear-drums. There was no
sound, no sound anywhere save the strident
chorus of insect minstrelsy and the panic
pounding of his heart. Suddenly there was
an eerie movement among the trees. Mr.
Badger’s heart thumped and then stood still.
He held himself tense and rigid. There were
no wild beasts in the Papuan forest —only
bush-pigs and wallabies and —and men! Mr.
Badger’s hair stiffened. His heart leapt
into his mouth. Men there were in these
rotting jungles—brown men, painted men,
gibbering assassins armed with club and
spear; men to whom murder was a passion,
a social pastime, who slew for the sheer love
of slaying, who- Mr. Badger’s blood
suddenly froze, a scream, quickly stifled,
broke from his fear-stiffened lips, and frantic-
ally. blunderingly, he —
“Spare me days!” As from a great dis-
tance he heard Kershaw’s voice. A blinding
ray of light from an electric torch illumi-
nated Mr. Badger’s white, strained face.
“Well, I’ll be damned!’’ Kershaw’s voice
sounded unspeakably shocked. “What the
blazes are you doing here?”
“I —I—O my God !” Mr. Badger moaned
feebly, helplessly.
“A man ought to roar you up,” Kershaw
remonstrated. “Wandering off in the bush
like a dam’ silly kid !” His voice took on
an aggrieved note. “Haven’t you any sense
at all? Some fool-nigger might have stuck
a spear into you, and where wquld I be then,
hey? Don’t you think I g6t enough ‘Please
explains’ ?”
Mr. Badger sat up, feeling himself with
tender, experimental fingers.
“Young man” something of his old
pomposity insinuated itself into his shaky
voice. “I was on my way to the wireless
station, to assure myself, young man, that
your stupid policemen”-
“Good God!” Kershaw ejaculated blankly.
Then gasped, choked and broke out into
helpless laughter.
Mr. Badger coughed, “Young man”
“Oh, shut up!” snapped Kershaw, sud-
denly serious. “And not another word
about my John Hops! Savee? Not another
squeak from you!”
He hauled Mr. Badger to his feet.
“H’m!” There was contempt, anger and
other things in Bill Kershaw’s gruht. “Per-
haps you’d like to continue your evening
stroll to the wireless-station, hey? Go
straight ahead, over the Gap, over the Main
Range until you strike the sea—just a mere
eight days’ march, y’know, to Port Moresby,
you silly old josser!”
In utter silence Horace T. Badger,
M.H.R., followed the patrol back to the
station.


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 .. £18,366,297
Directors: Sir Mari, Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Fit an k N. Yarwood ; 11. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.;
George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgatc, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd, James Tuke.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World
Every descriotion of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE nrnl WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. ’374 197
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3.609,655
GRANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain and Ireland, and "other places
RECEIVES DEPOSITS at interest
periods ana transacts all other usual Banking business'
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGES TERRACE
Also FREMANTLE, W.A
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET
£2,000,000
1,250,000
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
.. £1,250,000
.. 950,000
Reserve liability of shareholders
£2,200,000
1,250,000
„ _ £3,450,000
Head Office; ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Also 109 Branches and Agencies in South Australia
London Office: 11 LEADENI-lALL STREET, E.O
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout tin
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collectec
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
8 7*Pitt St!*Sydney P|o V ideilt SoC lSt)
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1926 £2,887,200
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,893,000
Accumulated Funds £63,600,000
Annual Income £9,600,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY. F.S.S., General Manager.
u [•] i M iW i
A ROYAL
SMOKE
All Good
Hotels and
I obacconists,
6d
each.
25 Cigars,
12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
' Sampler Box
containing two
cigars, Is. Post
free.
CraigeAitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors for ClulJ
Reil Cigar Factory.
Shipping, etc.
! ,v
nH
H
s Can ada^
UnijmtStates
EUROPE
across tile racific
mdJVcrlHAmerica
TRAVEL BY THE
CAN ADI AN-AUSTRAL ASIAN LINE
TO VANCOUVER
(via Auckland, Suva and Honolulu),
Or by the
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(via Wellington, Rarotonga and Tahiti).
Through bookings to and from Canada, United States and Europe
with the choice of any railway route across the American Continent
and of any steamship line across the Atlantic.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY, LTD.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
H^^raoNs
JAVA (The Beautiful).
Monthly Sailings by the MARELLA (T. 7475) and
MALABAR (T. 5000), via the Picturesque Torres Strait.
Travel via JAVA to EUROPE, the Smooth-Water Route.
South Sea Island Tours
Regular Six-Weekly Sailings from Sydney.
New Guinea s.s. montoro.
Visiting 16 Island Ports.
Solomons
S.S. MATARAM,
Visiting 24 Island
Ports.
, Jps.
/ill r®
I Pi
nr
m
Full Particulars from—
BURNS, PHILP & COY. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .. ..
RESERVE LIABILITY ..
dsf
£7,481,960
5,650,000
7,481,960
£20,613,920
Directors,
Thomas Buck la rid, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull. Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.G.
Auditors: S. E. Laid ley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 XhreadDeedle Street, E.C. 3.
514 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand. Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. I.etters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 3,950,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,428,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE J. COHEN. Chairman: Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.;
Major-General the Hon. J. W. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.:
OWEN E. FRIEND; and Sir WILLIAM VICARS, C.B.E.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria, at Adelaide, South Australia
and Canberra, Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other
parts of the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings —Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Sydney Agents.
M elbourne S.S. Co.,
I.td..Clarence and
Barrack Sts.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kembla Big.
f>B Margaret St.
Mcllwruith,
McEacharn. Ltd.,
19 Bridge St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kembla Big.
58 Margaret St.
A.U.S.N. Co.. Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Mcllwraitb,
McEacharn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd
7 Bridge Street.
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no cargo for Mackay),
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
at Townsville for outports).
En Route to America Tarry Awhile in
HAWAII
Or take a six to eight weeks’ Round Trip for
about £lOO to £l5O. It costs no extra passage
money to stop off in Hawaii. Quaint tearooms
and gardens; all American conveniences, good
hotels with meals 12/- to £3 per day; apart-
ments and furnished cottages. Entire cost Syd-
ney to Honolulu and return (two or three
weeks in Hawaii) and a day at Suva or Pago
Pago, about £lOO. Unique vacation; complete
change in land of music and sunshine, tropical
coloring - , fruits and flowers. Balmy climate,
golfing, tramping, outrigger canoeing, surf-board
riding, outdoor sports. Inter-island cruises.
Volcanic wonderlands. Ask nearest travel agency
or write Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept. 26, Box
241-D, G.P.0., Sydney ; N.S.W., for beautifully
colored booklet, enclosing this advertisement.
See Lovely Hawaii This Year.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WuLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., lid.
Huddart ParkerLiil
Magiiifloent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice vena.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original..
JENOLAN
CAVES
Inclusive
Three-
Day
Tours —
Rail and
Motor,
£4/7/-
Motor All
the Way,
£5/5/-
Bracing Air,
Glorious Scenery,
Wonderful Caverns,
Dancing,
Billiards,
Card-room Lounge.
Tour Programme and Booking at
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


X
/////
-jtrs
i
REXONA
X>he "Rapid fiealer
TAKES the BURN
OUT OF
SUNBURN!
f Cooling 'yX —■*
E /fjoothmq - *\ z. r
1/n /f— Healinq \ '^= L f m
, '~ r /pnnlisfplic Ointment
-P Absolutely^
Heals 1 Reliable
naasHaaniSEa
A Reliable Healer for all Eruptions >
and Irritalions of the Skin. Eczema Sores. Gifs.
Burns Bruises. sores. Sciatica. Piles Stings of Insects,
and all kinds of Inflammafu
To minimise the after-effects of
sunburn, anointing with Rexona,
the Rapid Healer, is all that is
necessary, and the skin, soothed
and cooled with its wonderful influ-
ence, will quickly regain its normal
temperature and comfortable cool-
ness.
Rexona Skin and Facial Soap will
be found excellent in combination
with Rexona, the Rapid Healer.
Unequalled for all skin troubles,
and as a shampoo for the hair after
your dip.
THE TRIANGULAR BOX
"Rexona
&oap
f
y+ecdth
or
and
Ijexiuty
v ' v ;
%
'uHh
§
■--y'
m
V b
1
<§
MINI mmitmm n , 'll V^m
Chocolates
“/ do wj Daddy —sd£
what he's brought me home!"
The Famous Red Box of Chocolates.
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address fn Australia.
Send for Catalogue Illustrated with re-
productions of our Confectionery in color.
ttCu\
162-166 Pitt St.,
and Cr. George
& King Streets,
Castlereagh St,
(next Theatre Royal),
Sydney.
"si
W
im
' .."'4
~
/..•x-i..:/:/!'' (1 .xx:'-
.
►
... 1 i i iljiip ■ ■
■
i#i lip
Hark a way.
OH ARK A WAY is far away,
And Harkaway is fair,
The green hills run to meet the trees
And a child plays there!
0 hills run up and hills run down
To meet the Dandenongs,
And Harkaway is far and fair,
And there a child belongs.
Don’t you remember how the fox
Yepped in the hedge at night?
And Narre Warren hid in mist?
And Berwick out of sight?
Don't you remember magic lakes
With islands of treetops,
And dewdrops scented in the sun
Sliding to bigger drops?
All down the rusty fencing-wire,
And bunnies with white tails
Bobbing among the barley and
The cuckoos at their scales?
(Ah, mournful, lovely, bad cuckoos!
Long since must you be dead ;
Yet on and on, and on and on
Your scales go in my head!
And in my heart —age-old, and lost,
That mournful, mournful cry,
Asking and asking endlessly
0 where? O where? O why?)
Do you remember lilac time,
When lilacs purple and white
Maddened us with the scent of them
And the young life-delight?
Of course you do! And so do I,
And how the cows of sums
Wouldn’t come out; and won’t do, yet!
Not even using thumbs!
How good the hung-up lunches smelt,
Of sandwiches and sauce!
Do you remember “swapping taws”?
You do; you do, of course.
Remember how the “milk” went by,
With brakes that squawked and squealed,
And how the bellbirds clinked and chimed
Like mad at Beaconsfield.
And all along Kardinia Creek
The Christmas bush grew thick.
The bellbirds raced you out of sight
If you weren’t quick.
Do you remember Muddy Creek,
And that pot-lioley track
That went beyond the Finger Posts
To people at the Back?
0 Harkaway ! O Harkaway !
How fair you were, how fair!
The silver huntsman on the hills,
And a horn winding there.
A winding horn, a challenge horn,
Away ! away ! ah do !
0 Hark ! Away ! the hunt is up !. ...
How faint I answer you.
The hunt of life, at dawn, is up,
Away, away we go.
Envisioned eyes, quick-coming breath,
Ho, tally, tallyho!
The hunt is up, the hunt, the hunt!
Do we look back? Not we!
Ahead the toppling mountains wait;
Below, the crashing sea!
The deep blue tides of Western Port,
Hard by Port Phillip Bay ;
The silver sand’s a laughing lure—
Away ! away ! away !
A magic horn, a merry horn,
The echo’s never sped....
Ho! I shall not go batik again —
That kiddie might be dead.
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.
Poke-Mama’s Pig.
A MERRY little party pulled away down
the Iviko River in the police whale-
boat early one morning. The native
police were glad to get away from the
monotony of station routine; the discharged
prisoners were cheerful at the prospect of
returning to their village, after a month of
gaol. The Taubada, like the police, wel-
comed the change, although he well knew
that many discomforts awaited him during
a patrol through the Purari Delta.
The Delta villages, like most villages in
Papua, are built on piles, uplifting them
beyond the mud and slime of the waterways.
Not ideal camping places, for solid ground
is rarely to be seen, and rest-houses of
native construction leave much to be de-
sired in the way of comfort. The variety
of creeping, crawling and flying insects
would gladden the heart of a naturalist,
though they sour the temper of a patrol
officer. Still, there are worse places to
patrol than the Delta, and the Taubada lav
back in the stern of the boat, stretched at
his ease upon the folded canvas fly, which
served as a cushion by day and a tent by
night. He listened to the idle chatter of
the natives, and smiled as he caught scraps
of their gossip.
The softly falling rain did not damp their
spirits, for rain is a matter of daily occur-
rence in the Delta, where the gauge shows
300 inches per annum. The tunics of the
police were soaking wet, and the blue serge
ramis, bright with rows of red braid, clung
limply to the brown legs of the rowers, who
seemed oblivious of any discomfort. The
laughter and chatter almost drowned the
noisy splash of the heavy oars, at which
police and prisoners alike pulled vigorously.
The discharged men in the boat were
mostly from the same village. They wore
the sihi or perineal band of calico. One or
two sported belts of plaited grass, or stiff
brown bark, girded tightly round the waist
like a corset. All wore plaited ganas
tightly encircling legs and arms so that, the
imprisoned flesh bulged in unsightlv rolls
above and below the adornment. Their
brown skins certainly looked sleeker and
healthier than they had done a month ago
when they had arrived at the gaol.
Taking turns at the oars they pulled with
a will, knowing that every stroke was
carrying them nearer home. One man
boasted that when he reached his village he
would make all the men clean under the
houses “white man’s fashion”; another, that
he would make the rest-house so good and
clean that the Taubada could sleep in it
as in his own house at the station. The
police reminded them jocularly of the good
kailcai the Government had given them. To
all this the Taubada listened in amused
silence, until Pirika-Evara, in a gush of
enthusiasm, boasted that if he only had a
pig lie would kill it and make a feast when
the party reached Kairu, bemoaning the
fact that he —with an emphasis on the “he”
—did not own one.
At his words and the meaning look in
his eye, one of the other prisoners shrank
down on the floor of the boat. The Tau-
bada, noticing this, and guessing at the
hidden meaning of the speech, laughingly
called to the shrinking, half-hidden form,
“Poke-Mama, have you no pig you can kill
for us to feast upon?”
“Oh, no, no, Taubada,” very vehemently
came the reply in a muffled voice, and Poke-
Mama shrank even closer to the boards,
behind the stalwart policeman who was
rowing.
The eager denial evoked a roar of
laughter.
“Oh, Poke-Mama,” said the policeman,
without turning round or ceasing from row-
ing, “think of all the bulamakau, the rice,
the sago and sweet potatoes you ate in the
gaol. Do you grudge us one little pig to
feed our hungry bellies when we bring you
to your village?”
The pigless prisoners greeted this sally
with a roar of delight, and the Taubada
looked with mock reproach at Poke-Mama,
whose wizened face peered miserably round
the serge-clad rower. “Taubada, I have five
wives,” he declared, “but no pig. Once I
had a pig, it is true, but a man from my
village told me that whilst I was in gaol
my pig took sick and died. Had it been
alive I would truly have killed it for you.”
Hereafter Poke-Mama effaced himself as
much as possible, but whenever the Tau-
bada caught a glimpse of the crafty,
wrinkled face, he greeted him with “Well,
Poke-Mama, what about that pig?”—only
to be answered with ever-increasing vehem-
ence, “No, no, Taubada, I am a poor man.
I have no pig,” and Poke would shrink
even smaller. At the best he was only
about four foot six, a shrivelled, wrinkled,
brown man, with a face like a chimpanzee,
save that the grin was absent; Poke-Mama
took life too seriously to smile.
Apparently he was a ravi biaguna, a chief
in the village councils, for, although all the
others took their share of rowing, Poke-
Mama never handled an oar, nor did he
take any part in the evening tasks when
camp was pitched. At dusk, when a clear-
ing in the biri was cut and a sleeping
patapata made high above the mud of the
swamp, beyond the reach of the most enter-
prising alligators, he would sidle out of
sight until the cheery fire had been kindled
and the great iron cooking pots, on their
trivets of cut mangrove poles, gave forth
a savory odor. Then he shuffled into the
circle of warmth and light, and, sitting in
the litter of chips and leaves, showed himself
a good trencherman. It was amazing what an
amount of food could be tucked away in
that shrivelled body. Nothing came amiss
with him. In the boat, he gnawed all day
at the long sticks of baked sago, which is
the “staff of life” of the Purari native;
between whiles he munched bananas or cold
taro.
Once, and only once, did he show a grin.
An alligator was shot, and as the corpse
was dragged from the mud into which it
had slid from the river bank, Poke-Mama’s
face expanded in pure delight. He elbowed
to the front and superintended the grisly
job of disembowelling and dismembering the
scaly monster. He brooded over the boiling
pots, crammed to overflowing with the
stinking reptilian meat, like an old wizard
over a cauldron of witch broth, licking his
dry parchment lips in anticipation of the
gorge in store. That night it seemed that
his capacity for food was limitless. Several
of the police, to show their civilised ways,
scorned the alligator meat, but the prisoners
welcomed it with great delight and gluttoned
on it to their hearts’ content. What little
remained from that Gargantuan feast was
carefully preserved for the morning, when
the bones were gnawed and freed from the
last shreds of meat.
Next day the gourmands were kept in
the bows, as far li'om the Taubada as pos-
sible ; the smell of the sweat of a man who
has eaten alligator being almost as offensive
and musky as the smell of the reptile itself.
Poke-Mama stretched himself luxuriously
in the bottom of the boat, heaving a sigh
of contentment so portentous that the
Taubada looked up and the rowers paused
in their stroke.
“Well, Poke-Mama, when we come to
your village do not forget this feed you have
had. I think you will have to kill that big
pig of yours, after all, that we may all feast
in like manner,” said the Taubada.
The serene content vanished from the
greedy old face. “Taubada,” lie cried, “I
have already told you that my pig is dead,
and that I am a poor man with five wives
to feed.” Then, with an air as if the joke
had gone too far, he curled himself up
with his lime-pot by his side, chewing betel
nut and shovelling the lime into his mouth
with a long-handled bone spatula, scowling
at all. As the days crept by and one village
after another had been inspected, Poke-
Mama became more and more uneasy. At
Akiaravi, one day’s journey from Poke’s
village, the village constable killed a pig in
honor of the official visit. After giving it
over to the men to eat (white men do not
eat village pigs, for reasons delicacy forbids
one to state), the Taubada said, “Give Poke-
Mama my piece of pig. It is only a small
one, but when we go to his village to-morrow
I expect his pig will be a big one.”
After the evening meal was over, and the
{Continued on next page.)


'■Every picture
Zells or Story'
r*
niw
tw
-rSSi
l> I
pwv
m
m
m
4?
/
\W
1
i T tvViV*-
ipim
i,*.
7.
M
That backache again!
Why not get at the cause?
MORE than likely your kidneys are to blame. Backache, head-
aches, dizziness, urinary disorders, sciatica, rheumatism,
lumbago, dropsical swellings, gravel and dropsy may all be caused
by harmful impurities which weak or sluggish kidneys have failed
to take out from the blood. Be quick to correct this! Don’t allow
the kidney weakness to go from bad to worse! You run too grave
a risk! Use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, without any further
delay; they will not fail. Grateful people, everywhere, recommend
this special kidney medicine for relieving and preventing kidney
disorder and its many symptoms.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY
GIVEN HERE.
DON’T BE PUT OFF—
INSIST ON DOAN’S.
Mr. A. B. Cowell, “Halcyon,” Park Road, Mascot, Sydney, says:
“Some months ago I was suddenly seized with a terrible pain across my
bgck, just above the kidneys. It did not go away as I thought at first
it would, but on the contrary, it got worse and I was soon so bad that I
was bent almost double. I was completely crippled and even at night
I got very little rest from the constant pain. I could not turn over
without suffering acutely, in fact, no position was comfortable for long.
My secretions were affected, being thick and cloudy with a red sediment.
I tried different remedies, but they gaye me no relief whatever. One
day a friend suggested I should take Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and
it proved to be good advice, too, for three bottles cured me completely.
I feel splendid now, and my recovery is due solely to Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills.”
Eight years later, Mrs. Cowell, says: “My son is still well. Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills having completely banishied all signs of kidney
trouble.”
Sold by all Chemists and Store-
keepers. Foster-McClellan Co., Pro-
prietors, 15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
DOAN'S
Backache Kidney Pills.
PILES AND ECZEMA CURED
BY DOAN’S OINTMENT
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
Eczema Cured.
Mr. H. Watson, sen., Bay Street,
Glebe, Sydney, says: “A couple of
years ago I had Eczema break out
badly on my chest. It was very
severe and spread rapidly until I was
in such a state that the pain and
irritation nearly drove me mad. A
man I know advised me to get Doan’s
Ointment, saying that he had heard
of excellent results from the use of
this preparation. I thought it a
good idea and obtained a pot. The
first few applications gave me relief,
and after that I got along splendidly.
Every time I applied the Ointment
there was a marked improvement,
and within a month I was cured, and
not one trace of the ailment remained.
Doan’s Ointment is a splendid pre-
paration for Eczema, and I recommend
it with every confidence to other
sufferers. Its soothing and healing
properties are wonderful.”
Piles Cured.
Mrs. M. Brown, Toronto, Lyons
Road, Five Dock, Sydney, says:
“Three years ago I used Doan's
Ointment for a bad attack of piles,
and I am pleased to tell you it com-
pletely cured me. Previous to trying
this Ointment I used all kinds of
remedies, but they gave me little or
no relief. I was suffering terribly
when I first applied Doan’s Ointment,
and had little hope of it doing me
any good, but its soothing and healing
effects were noticeable almost at once,
and by the time I had used one pot
I was cured, all sign of Piles having
completely disappeared. I am a great
believer in Doan’s Ointment, and con-
sider it the best Pile remedy known.
It cured me after other remedies had
failed.”
Six years later, Mrs. Brown says:
“I have had no return of my old
complaint since Doan’s Ointment
cured me about nine years ago.”
At all Chemists and Stores.
KEEP A TIN ALWAYS ON HAND.
pig eaten to the very tip of, his tail, Poke-
Mama appeared at the door of the rest-
house, where the Taubada was eating his
evening meal from a tin, and demanded
audience.
“Well, what do you want?” said the
Taubada.
“Oh, Taubada, I came to tell you that I
am hoka hisihisi (belly sick) about my pig.
A man here has just told me that a big dog
killed it two weeks ago, and my wives have
eaten it, so I have no pig to make a feast
for yon, as otherwise I would have done.
Truly, Taubada, I am full of sorrow.”
It was late aftei-noon next day when the
whaleboat came in sight of Kairu. From
afar the hubbub at the village could be
heard. Wafts of smoke curled up above the
cocoanut palms, and a strong smell of cook-
ing floated down the breeze. It was evident
that the “bush telegraph” had been at work,
and a feast was in preparation for the wel-
come home.
Poke-Mama, crouched in the bows, craned
his skinny neck and gazed anxiously at the
distant village. A premonition of disaster
showed in his eyes as he wrinkled his beaky
nose at the smell of burning grease.
The whaleboat danced downstream as
with yells of joy the returned men, catching
sight of their l'ooftrces, pulled at the oars.
The crowd of villagers waiting on the wharf
threatened to collapse that crazy structure.
Willing hands pulled in the boat and Poke-
Mama was the first man ashore.
A stalwart youth hailed him joyfully, and
his small form disappeared in an enveloping
ci-owd of wives, with children clinging to
their grass petticoats. Nose rubbing, em-
bracing and general rejoicing shook the old
wharf; and then high above the riot of
noise came the noise of a vigorous slap.
Smack, smack, smack, and a cry of pain.
“Oh, Tamana, Tamana!”
It was Poke-Mama’s son. The old man
was belaboring him vigorously, until the
Taubada laid a restraining hand on his
shoulder.
“What’s this about?” he demanded.
“Oh Taubada,” gasped Poke-Mama, with
tears streaming from his eyes, “this wicked,
ungrateful son of mine has killed my pig for
the feast. My big, fat, beautiful pig!”
ALYS BROWN.
The Vanity-Bag.
MRS. LACEY, who had listened intently
once or twice, sat up in bed. Then
she shook the shoulder of the slumber-
ing Mr. Lacey, who woke up with a start and
blinked apprehensively.
“Horatio,” she said* “I’m sure I heard a
noise. I believe there is someone in the
house.”
“Mice, Matilda,” replied Mr. Lacey, but
without conviction. For he really heard
movements.
“Horatio,” said Mrs. Lacey firmly, “you
had better get up and see who it is. Only
be careful.”
Mr. Lacey rose reluctantly. He put on
dressing-gown and slippers and a large pair
of spectacles. With his walrus moustache
and his bald head he looked a pathetic little
figure. And he was horribly afraid. He
had not the vaguest idea of what he should
do if he came face to face with a midnight
intruder; still less if the intruder were
armed. In his heart he felt convinced that
Matilda could have handled the situation far
more effectively. But his not to reason why.
The ingrained habit of obedience was too
strong for him. He crept softly along the
hall. Any doubt as to the nature of the
disturbance vanished. For Mr. Lacey heard
distinct sounds in his library, where he kept
his safe. He was at a loss to know what to
do. It taxed his courage to the utmost to
go forward; but he dared not go back.
For a moment he shivered. The shiver
was not due entirely to fear. Mr. Lacey
realised that he had caught a chill, and, what
was even worse, that sooner or later he was
going to sneeze. But a courageous impulse
from a line of fighting ancestors —for he had
Crusaders in his pedigree—sent the little man
on his way. In a moment he had reached
the library door. And he stood transfixed
with amazement. For he saw, rifling the safe
with systematic thoi’oughness, a young
woman with a chic little hat and a neat
grey coat and skirt.
“Har-r-rashlih !”
It was really astonishing that so small a
man could achieve so Gargantuan a sneeze.
The girl at the safe turned round with a
startled gasp and switched off her electric
torch. At the same time Mr. Lacey switched
on the light.
He felt that he really must say something,
however inadequate.
“Excuse me,” he said, “but—er—what are
yon doing here?”
He was nervous and unhappy, because he
had forgotten to put in his teeth, and also,
to tell the truth, because he was frightfully
embarrassed. But the fair intruder had re-
covered her self-possession. She produced a
revolver, and Mr. Lacey’s blood positively ran
cold. He had a horror of lethal weapons,
and would probably have been almost as
scared if the revolver had been in his hand
instead of the lady’s.
“Sit in that arm-chair,” said the girl
quietly, “and don’t move. Also, don’t get
excited. At your age you must look after
your blood-pressure, you know.”
She dimpled prettily, and Mr. Lacey felt a
little of his courage coming back. “This is
rather a strange occupation for a young lady,
isn’t it?” he remarked.
“Oh,” said the young lady demurely,
“burglary is not my regular occupation at
all. I am only doing this for a bet.”
Before Mr. Lacey could ask any further
questiqns she gazed fixedly at his pink feet,
and the unhappy man drew them under the
chair.
“Now,” proceeded the girl brightly, “tell
me. Did you make these investigations of
your own accord, or did your wife send
you ?”
“Really,” began Mr. Lacey in protest,
“I —you”
“You need not say any more. You are
rather a dear; but I should think you would
hardly be a success as a sleuth-hound. _ I
should be very much surprised if your wife
were not soon to make investigations on her
own account.”
Even as she spoke, a deep contralto voice,
in which nervousness fought a losing battle
with pique, said, “Horatio, who is that young
woman you are talking to?”
“I thought as much,” said the girl drily,
“You must really introduce me to yoiy
wife, Mr. ?’’
But Mr. Lacey was not listening. His
features were convulsed, and for a second
time he sneezed. As he recovered from the
paroxysm there was a creak; it was the
lady of the house getting out of bed.
Presently she appeared at the door, clad in
a kimono. She eyed the intruder bale-
fully.
“What are you doing here?” she demanded ;
and her manner was that of a lioness robbed
of her whelps.
The girl dimpled again. “I am having
a most interesting conversation with your
husband,” she said, “but the poor man seems
to have a dreadful cold. You really ought to
rub his chest.”
Mrs. Lacey stared at the girl indignantly.
Then, in a terrible voice, she said: “You
are a burglar. Horatio, ring up the police
at once.”
“I am afraid your telephone is out of
action,” said the girl sweetly; “I attended
to that before I began operations. Besides,
you know, I have a revolver.”
Mrs. Lacey paled. For once she did not
feel equal to the situation. But with a
mighty effort she pulled herself together.
"You hussy!” she gurgled.
The girl smiled a little sadly. “Don’t be
too hard,” she said. “I am the only support
of an aged and crippled father—the pen-
sion does not go very far in these days.
And, after all, it was not much of a haul.
There was a little jewellery on the dressing-
table —I got that before you woke your
husband up—but there was nothing in the
safe except a few bonds and some musty old
papers. Keeping a safe on false pretences, I
call it.” Then she looked somewhat anxiously
at Mr. Lacey. “I do hope,” she said, “that
you are not going to sneeze again.”
But Mr. Lacey was not about to sneeze.
Instead, he said, with great perturbation.
“I —I thought that you were only doing this
for a wager? Surely you don’t mean to keep
these things? They have—ah—a sentimental
value.”
"I’m afraid,” replied the girl, “that I was
romancing a little. In these days, you know,
there are so comparatively few avenues of
employment for girls—and they are all over-
crowded. But I really must say good-bye.”
She picked up her suit-case, and with
a bright smile walked quietly to the front
door.
“And now.” said Mrs. Lacey fiercely, “I
am going to ’phone for the police.”
“But, my dear,” remonstrated Mr. Lacey
feebly, “she said the ’phone was out of
action.”
“She said more than her prayers. You
men! You believe anything! You believed
her when she said she was only burgling the
house for a wager.”
A moment later she turned round triumph-
antly. “The ’phone is in perfect order.”
* * * *
Detective Prowse, who arrived in due
course with two constables, was a tall, cool
customer, with a blue-shaven face and a
penetrating eye. He asked a few questions,
took an inventory of the missing jewellery,
then went into the library. He examined
the safe, glanced swiftly round the room,
and then uttered an exclamation of satisfac-
tion.
“It will be all right,” he said reassuringly.
“You can go back to bed. We’ll wait here.”
“What for?” inquired Mrs. Lacey in
stupefied wrath. “Why, she might be miles
away by now.”
“She might be,” said the detective. “But
she’ll come back at any minute.” As he
spoke, he picked up a vanity-bag, with pow-
der-puff and mirror complete. “She’ll come
back,” concluded Detective Prowse confi-
dently, “as soon as she misses this.”
WAWHEBESH.
The Masterpiece.
Not as dawn the day’s end is,
For when I awoke, and, early
Up this morning, sought the seaside,
All was rosy, green and pearly;
High above me, far before me,
Color in a flood unstinted,
Pouring from full eastern fountains,
Sky and sea and headland tinted.
Ships and painted sails I saw,
Painted sides, too, rising, falling,
Moving slowly o’er lit waters,
Pictured craft of old recalling—
Pictured craft which some great artist
Made it his delight to capture
From the crowded realm of vision
In a moment of soul-rapture.
Birds I saw with slanted wings,
Ruddy tints their plumage dyeing,
Soaring hither, soaring thither,
Over reef and islet flying—
Flying over bars and beaches
Where tall combers fell, and, streaming
On and upward, caught dawn’s glory,
Surf and spray with opals gleaming.
Not as dawn the day’s end is,
For the twilight, in surrender
To the shades of night, dies grayly,
Lacking glory, lacking splendor ;
Having shown her matchless magic,
Washing waves and rocks unshaken,
Headlands tall and crescent beaches
Peerless Beauty has forsaken.
Gone are all the glowing sails,
And the sea-birds, no more questing
Over beach and bar and islet,
In far rocky haunts are resting;
Yet, since I have been enchanted,
And with wonder made acquainted,
Thanks and praise I lift to Beauty
For the masterpiece she painted.
n.s.w.
RODERIO QUINN.


■
WESTI NGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear-
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTIMCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Age,, « CHDRCH Brisbane. CONCORD WEST, 11 S. WALES
N.Z Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office —“Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., 1,T1>., Adelaide,
“BITUMASTIC” Specialties.
TRIED AND TESTED FOR THE PAST 70 YEARS
“Bitumastic” Black Solution, to prevent Corrosion.
“Bituros,” for preservation of Drinking-water Tanks—•
tasteless and odorless.
“Bitumastic” Colored Enamels—an economical paint for
all purposes, in a, range of 1.5 colors.
“Bituplastic.” A plastic, bituminous waterproofing com-
pound, in red and black, for Roofs, Walls, etc.
Manufacturers: WAILES, DOVE BITUMASTIC, LTD., Newcastle-on-Tyne.
SOLE AGENTS—
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.
97 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
*
D
This Popular family Remedy prospers
Because those who take it prosper.
Recommended by Doctdrs as the safest
and most dependable Children’s Medicine
Cooling in Summer. Reliable Always*
The Genuine Kruse’s & made by ”
Felton, C rim wade & Go. Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne,
PLUM
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
/s\
De*«i Bov if ever im feeuh*
3£i_ov< P*K.
OK Suffer from iHDuj-esTio'*-
t
TH*T Tired FeeliH&,
I TAKE
MfflgfuiM
m
MVEMSft.
3H-40US
SI
T>e?NE4S>of4.
£
Am imsocm
'FiT'AnWEI.U
AGAIN.
N
Marine
Ekgimes
SATISFIED users are proofs
of quality. Over 70% of
the leading boat-builders of
the world regard Kermath Marine
Engines as standard equipment.
All Parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.
dsf
3 to 100H.P.
1 to 6
Cylinders
4 Cycle
Engines
HALL BROS., LTD.,
Careening Cove (foot of Willoughby St.),
Milson’s Point, North Sydney, N.S.W.
Kermath Manufacturing Co,
Detroit) Mich., U. S. A,
Cable Addree*r*rKEßMATH
m
A
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances ‘permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day. 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Tels.: 862.76 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
o 0 *'
oft*
-V>*
so* ..•••
‘ .•••■’ '■•''lt
VP*
..** ..•*


v,
sSasssss
:v.-
m
wm
Willard
*LW7j
?Ul a:
9/te
Buying “Willard” is getting more
for your money every time—every
battery* A Willard Battery with
Threaded Rubber Insulation
comes CHARGED Bone Dry* It
stays brand new until it is pre-
pared for your use.
S TOR AGE
BATTERY
ds
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., LTD.,
68 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD., Perth.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., LTD.,
482 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MOTOR SUPPLIES, LTD.,
