

never the fancy strikes you /
TOOTHS
e
In the home, on the road, in the city,
by the sea - - anywhere and everywhere
a glass of “K. 8.” Lager will cheer and
refresh, satisfy and sustain as only a
TRUE Lager can.
1
■
z
fes
n'V' S
’7l
hv
<■>
Hi
-7
■x\
h VmMm
? /
Wa^JFT7T
Uk
\!U
T ?°THT’ra ,T 0
*- * _4 -
AUSTRALIA
'H
v
V
W
M/
n
V, X
P- Af j. D BOTTLED by tooth A-ND;; K.ENT BREWERY, SYDNEY:
~3
S’®** ,'^SS'
The Bulletin
FIVE SHORT STORIES
Vol. 49.—N0. 2504.
Wednesday, February 8, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for the library catalogue and
lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to—
DYMOCK’S .BOOK ARCADE. DTD.,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
l&
18 59
at an y /Bran cA oP
m NATIONAL BANK
you may oh fa in Copies of its Informative Booklets
7 7 entitled
SERVICES & FACILITIES
AND
ARE YOU GOING ABROAD?
These Publications Convey rr\uch useful
Information and Indicate the Various
Ways in Which the Banty may be
helpful to you
They sho\V that the Bank’s Service
covers the Financial side oP Primary
St, Secondary Production, Land Settle-
ment, Trade & Commerce. Investments,
Loans, Overseas Business & Tourist"
Recjuirenjents
COPIES MAY BE OBTAINED AT ANY OF THE BANK'S BRANCHES
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Coni fa/Paid up 960,377
/
Total Assets in 1917
,282
1
Tohai Assefs in 1927
909,726
DistincMies
of a
LOEWE
Briar
Look for the LOEWE
Mark
rr is easy to talk of perfection,
but difficult to achieve. Foi
70 years the name of Loewe has
been synonymous with briar
pipe perfection. It has made
London famous as the home
of the briar. Loewe crafts-
men are proud of having main-
tained this tradition and of
producing “the best pipe of all ” in the
Mother Country There is no secret in
the world wide appreciation of Loewe
briars. It has been won by sheer
excellence.
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES
Bowl cut from the heart of
naturally matured briar root.
Mouthpiece cut by hand from
pure Para vulcanite.
Weight and balance perfect •
Solid Silver mounted.
Complete pipe made by hand by
ekilled London craftemen.
&c®
.V)
ONE OF THE MANY
LOEWE SHAPES
Saii loewe
sAa pes
2V-
SILVER
MOUNTED
1
Write for Illustrated Booklet. L. M, BROWNE, BOX 555, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
This year the Trigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good o
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin — bigger and better.
r
HOUSE FLIES
APE POTENT
CARRIERS OF
DISEASE AND
FILTH.
KILL
t*
IS NOT A GERMAN
POWDER.
Sold Everywhere.
PRICE 1/-
The Red Page
The Diggers at Rabaul
If the official history of any other phase
of Australia’s part in the war were written
with the same license for detail that S. S.
Mackenzie has allowed himself in Vol. X:
The Australians at Rabaul (Angus and
Robertson), the bulky, well-bound and ex-
cellently prepared and illustrated volumes
would fill five public libraries and an annexe.
Three brief chapters would have amply
described the actual campaign, and one oi
these could have been given to the mobilis-
ing of the force. The ex-Acting Adminis-
trator of the Territory has written 21 chap-
ters, about one-tenth of which is war his-
tory and the rest an account of New Guinea
in peace, from its discovery in 1526 by the
Portuguese Jorge de Meneses, through the
visits of various other roysterers and fili-
busters, to the British apathy, bungling and
stupidity which allowed Germany to annex
a large portion of it and adjoining islands
in 1884, on through the little war that
brought it under Australia’s pi-otection, and
the military administrations that followed.
Adequate, if not elaborate, details are given
concerning the country’s rainfall, climate
and vegetation, and the author has found
time and space for speculating on what it
will look like when the Fly River and the
Sepik have been stripped of their bordering
jungle, and, maybe, the few little graves
that bought it for Australia are levelled
and forgotten.
Still, though this is much more a text-
book on New Guinea than a nai-rative of
war in the sense that the other volumes m
the series are narratives of war, it turns a
peculiar and illuminating spotlight on the
Digger. In the little war he is what he was
at the Gallipoli landing: a cunning, re-
sourceful and brilliantly game fighter. The
little war is over almost in an hour or two
—a shotless landing, an advance along the
jungle fringes of the Bitapaka-road, a little
skirmishing, a few casualties, and then an
exchange of polite notes between “your
Excellency’s obedient servants” George E.
Patey, commanding the Australian Fleet,
and William Holmes, commanding the
Expeditionary Force, on the one side, and
his Excellency the Acting-Imperial Gover-
nor of German New Guinea, Dr. Haber, on
the other. A week or so elapsed while these
notes were being exchanged, but the actual
conquest was over within a few hours of
the landing—a dozen or two men bluffing
their way to victory in an unknown and
treacherous country.
There is much to the credit of Australia
in this account. Her expeditionary force
was mobilised in four days and trained into
an efficient fighting force within a few
weeks. With very limited opportunity it
proved itself capable of conquering in a
difficult country, and in doing so revealed
the fighting qualities that subsequently sur-
prised hardened and seasoned soldiers on
the other side. When it had conquered, it
was hampered by international law that
•prevented the alienation of land, but in
spite of this and other obstacles its adminis-
tration provoked no criticism that, quoting
chapter and verse, this historian has not
jjeen able to answer.
A volume that should thoroughly dis-
appoint everyone who likes reading about
war, and one likely to make anybody who
has ideas of starting a war against Aus-
tralia think hard and long.
C.M.
The Belittling of Lawson
Various people during “Authors’ Week”
in Brisbane tried vigorously to show that
Lawson was not a bush-poet at all—that he
did not know the bush, and that his repu-
tation was therefore founded on shifting
sand. One really wonders whether these
critics had ever read Lawson at all. “When
the Army Prays for Watty at the Pub”
may have been written by a Big-City scrib-
bler, but it remains one of the most perfect
pictures of life in a little bush town ever
painted. If a man who did not know bush
life could have written “The Drover’s
Wife” out of his inner consciousness, then
one would like to meet him and study his
truly phenomenal type of genius. If “The
Shanty on the Rise” is not truly Australian,
where then shall we find the touch of native
talent? On the strength of such works it
may be safely predicted that Lawson will
be quoted as our greatest authority on the
old Australian bushman—a type already
almost faded from the land.
Lawson’s fame must rest mainly on his
prose sketches, which are redolent of Aus-
tralia, of the bush, and, above all, of its
easy-going, free-living, genial companion-
ship.
It is rather remarkable that none of these
carpers should have raised the cry that
neither Gordon nor Brunton Stephens nor
Essex Evans nor W. H. Ogilvie nor Victor
Daley was by birth Australian, and that much
of the work of all of them bears unmistak-
able signs of its exotic origin. “Convict
Once,” with its mellifluous polysyllables, is
a piece of fine versification about an Aus-
tralian theme—and the brand of English
culture and the English college is over it all.
Daley’s graceful verses hark back to the
ancient Celtic school (the Daleys, by the
way, were an old bardic sept.); and Ogilvie
is a lineal descendant of the Border raiders
about whom so many stirring ballads were
written in the old days. Gordon was a
classicist at heart, and the bulk of Essex
Evans’s fine verse breathes an air that is
certainly not of eucaiyptie fragrance.
Compare Lawson with any of these and
ask yourself who is the Australian and who
is the outsider. If the bush and the bush-
man do not live in his pages, where shall
we find them? If you extract from his
works the bush pictures and the bushman
(and bushwoman) portraitures, what have
you left? If Lawson had only written “The
Drover’s Wife” and the sombre but noble
“Out Back” his name would be assured of
a permanent place in the annals of his
country.
P. AIREY.
Lawson lived in and saw more of the bush
than most people are aware of. He was 17
when he first went to Sydney. Later he
shouldered his, blue'y'to Bourke and South-
Western Queensland —a wandering in part
of which I was his mate. Another drift
to Sydney was followed by his visits to
Brisbane and Maoriland. In the latter place
he worked in the bush awhile erecting tele-
graph-poles; then he taught at a small bush
school. He paid a short visit to Westralia,
but stuck to the tbwns, working at odd jobs.
His staunch friend Tom Mutch took him in
hand later, and they explored the N.S.W.
South Coast together. He also went to.his
old home town, Mudgee, and rested a while,
renewing old friendships and making new
ones, and going over and over the old spots
that he knew so well as a boy.
After his return from England he suffered
as few of us have suffered. His manhood
came back to him with a sojourn on the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Areas, arranged
by W. A. Holman, then Premier. During
his stay on the areas he saw Hay, Hillston
and Burrinjuck, and with myself he trav-
elled many miles up and down the Murrum-
bidgee. After the dramatising of his “While
the Billy Boils” he left the place volun-
tarily and the city saw him again.
It was about a year later that R. J.
Cassidy and one or two others arranged for
him to go to Coolac, an ideal little town-
ship a few miles out of Gundagai, where
he had done some roaming before he went
to England; but he tired of it within a
fortnight, and found his way to Sydney
again. That was the last time he saw his
beloved bush
JIM GRAHAME.
A Robert Keable Memory
The death of Robert Keable, the author
of that sensational best-seller, “Simon
Called Peter,” brings to mind his visit
to Sydney about five years ago. I met him
and found him a most interesting person-
ality, quite without the affectations which
disfigure many novelists of these days. His
stay in Sydney was short, and most of his
time was spent roaming around the law
courts, where he found abundance of
material for the compounding of another
Julie or a Peter. The Divorce Court in
particular held his interest; he spent hours
in the public gallery as though simply fill-
ing in an idle hour. Nobody knew his
identity. A quiet-mannered man, it was
not difficult to imagine Keable as a clergy-
man, which he was until 1920, when he cast
aside the inverted collar to become a
novelist. There was about him that calm,
philosophic air that often clings to the
men of the church, and in his mild grey
eyes, peering over his spectacles, was a
glint of shrewdness.
When I asked him to talk about his most
successful book, “Simon Called Peter,”
which at that moment was still a best-
seller, Keable told me that piquant little
devil Julie was modelled upon a nurse
whom he met in France during the war;
and he admitted, too, that the book was,
in a modified sense, a chronicling of his
own adventures as an army padre. At the
time of his visit to Sydney he was on his
way from South Africa to Tahiti. Even
then his health was not very good, and it
was the hope that the clear sunshine of the
Pacific isle would rehabilitate him that
moved him from Africa. “And,” he said,
“I want to write a book while I’m there.
I’m told it’s an ideal spot to write in. I
don’t know what the novel will be about,
but probably it will be set in Tahiti—that
is, if I find the island sufficiently interest-
ing.”
And in Tahiti, Keable, to judge by his
letters, found the peace and rich beauty
for which he had hoped. His next novel
vfas “Numerous Treasure,” a book in which
he did some really splendid writing,
although the story, while interesting
enough, lacked the stuff of life. He gave
us a wonderful picture of Tahiti, which he
got to love so much that he lived there
for five years. And there he died.
R.C
American Poetry.
America certainly has some very remark-
able products. She seems to find room for
good, bad and indifferent, both commercially
and artistically, and she is wonderfully
tolerant. While English poetry has been
steam-rollered, by technique and gentility
till- there is hardly any life in it, and extre-
mists like the Sitwells arise in red revolt,
(Continued on page 5.)


“Truth in Advertising”
Anthony Horderns
Genuine
SALE
(Finishes Saturday, February 11th)
Savings for MEN
Men’s Knitted Derby Ties. In club stripes, etc. - - - - 2/11. Sale - - 1/5 J
Men’s All-Wool Tweed Sac Suits. Greys and Browns - 59/6. Sale - - 56/6
Men’s Dark Grey All-Wool Tweed Sac Suits. New Model 84/- Sale - - 75/-
High-grade Worsted Sac Suits. Greys, Fawns, Browns - 105/- Sale - - 95 -
Men’s Sports Coats, with belted backs, patch pockets - - 45/- Sale - - 38/6
Cream Cotton Gabardine Trousers. Side and hip pockets 17/6. Sale - - 15/6
Men’s Motor Coats. Fawn, Grey or Navy Aero Cloth - 18/6. Sale - - 17/-
Grey Flannel Trousers. Side and hip pockets. Loops - 21/- Sale - - 19/6
Men’s Black or Tan Calf Lace Shoes. Genuine welted soles - - - Sale, pr. 20/-
Men’s Boots and Shoes. Patent Leather, Tan Willow, Glace Kid Sale - - 22/6
Men’s Pure Fur Felt Hats. Five shades. Three styles - - 1 7/6. Sale - - 13/6
“Palace” Quality Fine Soft Fur Felt Hats. Three styles - 21/- Sale - - 18/6
“Hordernian” Quality Fine Soft Fur Felt Hats. Three styles 25/- Sale - - 21/-
WE PAY CARRIAGE ON ALL THE ABOVE GOODS IN N.S.W.
Mail Your Orders Early!
All Mail Orders received before Satur-
day, 11th February, will benefit by these
genuine Sale reductions. Post your
orders now and avoid disappointment.
Secure future needs now on the
Deposit-Purchase System
at Sale Prices and pay at your convenience.
You Pay No Interest.
Saddlery and Harness at greatly reduced Prices
Stock and Park
Saddles
YXI2D —Stock Saddles, Hog-
skin seat, capped knee pads.
Prices: £6, £7/157-
Sale Prices . . £5/10/-, £7/5/-
YXI3D Stock Saddles, Hogskin
seat and knee pads, plated tree.
Price, £5. Sale Price. .£4/12/6
YXl4D—Stock Saddles, Hogskin
seat and pads. Price £4.
Sale Price £3/15/-
YX4D—Q ueensland Park
Saddles, Hogskin seat and pads.
Price, ea.: £5/15/-, £7, £7/15/-
Sale Price, ea.:
£5/7/6, £6/10/-, £7/5/-
YX6D—Park Saddles, Hogskin
seat, plated trees. Price, £4.
Sale Price £3/15/-
YX7D—Park Saddles, Hogskin
seat and pads, plated tree. Price,
£4/10/-. Sale Price.. £4/6/6
YXBD—Kemp Pattern Saddles,
all-over kip. Price, £7/107-
Sale Price £6/15/-
YX9D—Kemp Pattern Saddles,
with hogskin seat. Price, £7/1 57-
Sale Price £7/5/-
YXllD—Wieneke Pattern Stock
Saddle. Price, £B/157-
Sale Piice, each £8
YXI OD Ladies*!Astride Saddles,
Hogskin seat and pads. Price,
£4/16/9. Sale Price, £4/12/6
Boys’ Saddles
YXIBD Boys’ Stock Saddles,
Hogskin seat. Price, 75/6.
Sale Price 70/-
YXl9D—Boys’ Park Saddles,
Hogskin seat. Price, 75/6.
Sale Price 70/-
r
ŕ
Hickory Wheels.
Crane and McMahon’s American
Hickory Wheels.
YX3OD—II x 4ft. Saven Wheels,
1 Nut quality. Originally sold at,
per pair, £B/15/6. Sale Price,
per pair £5/17/-
1| x 4£ft. Carven Wheels, 1 Nut
quality. Originally sold at per pair,
£B/15/6. Now offered at, per
pair £5/17/-
Sulky and Buggy Harness
YXID—FuII-size and Pony Single-horse Sulky or Buggy
Harness. Black or Brown leather, solid Nickel mounts, fin.
reins, fin. winkers, sensible or square eyes, scroll draft metal
hames, with tugs I fin. Spot-stitched Yankee style collar, 1 fin.
sewn or single-leather traces, 4in. Alexander bead saddle,
Ifin. backhand and tugs, fin. split hip straps, fin. breeching
straps, complete 2 rows sewn. Price, £7/7/6.
Sale Price
£6/15/-
YX3ID If x 4ft. Sarven Wheels, 1 Star quality. Originally
sold at, per pair, £7/7/-. Sale Price, per pair .... £4/18/-
1f x 4fft. Sarven Wheels, Star quality. Originally sold at, per
pair, £7/7/-. Sale Price, per pair £4/18/-
(We do not pay carriage on Saddlery and Harness.)
Exercise and Race
Saddles
YXlsD—Exercise Saddles, Tod
Sloan pattern. Hogskin seat,
London color, plated tree, Price,
75/-. Sale Price 70/-
YXl6D—Exercise Saddles, all
over Grey suede. Price, 75/-
Sale Price 70/-
YXI 7D Race Saddles. Tod
Sloan Pattern, assorted colors in
Suede leather. English trees,
very neatly finished. Price,
£5/10/-. Sale Price, ea., £5/5/-
Bits at Half Price.
YX2 1 D—Half Cheek Pony Trot-
ting Snaffles. Price, per doz, 72/-
Sale Price, per doz 36/-
Half Cheek Snaffles, S.N. Price,
per doz., 63/-
Sale Price, per doz 327-
Half CKeek Snaffles. Turtan.
Price, per doz., 5 7/-
Sale Price, per doz 29/-
Wilson Snaffles, full size, steel.
Price, per doz., 84/-
Sale Price, per doz 42/-
Bradoon, Egg Butt. Price, per
doz., 1 20/-. Sale Price, doz., 60/-
Anthony Hordern
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
and Sons, Limited,
SYDNEY
'Phone Number
M 2401 (40 lines)


«
80
\
PTY
i
#
IMTE
v v
m
//
m
-~
&
» x
at
ml/I
~ \W
a R* p«ni
V \
)
"It Nil!
\' V
><
BEH
" HI TT ir
to
irii
ii
n
I Hi A ®
urn
inn
Hi
litore titan, €2.500.000 Annually
A PART from furnishing in
r\ its five great Australian
assembly plants direct employ-
ment for more than 2000
Austral ians, General Motors
makes other and very consider-
able contributions to Australian
prosperity and progress.
Purchases made annually in Aus-
tralia total over £2,500,000.
General Motors purchases 99.7
oer cent, of its tyre requirements
rom Australian manufacturers,
while 93 per cent, of the bodies
for General Motors cars are built
in Australia.
To meet the large requirements
which these figures imply, num-
bers of Australian suppliers are
extending their factories, and
thus also increasing employment
and prosperity. Moreover, all
the experience and knowledge
of the General Motors Technical
Department is freely at the dis-
posal of these suppliers in aiding
th em to improve and perfect
their products.
This is a part of General Motors
contribution to Australian
development.
Let Australians judge its value.
GENERAL MOTORS (AUS.) PTY., LTD.
MELBOURNE SYDNEY BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH


MEN’S
BAR-GAINS
CH/f tivc JtcvtS
The Lower Ground Floor, our New Store, is a
complete Mans Shop, conveniently located and
luxuriously equipped. Branch Mans Store
at our old premises, opposite G.P.O.
It will pay you to stock up your ward-
robe now. Look at these prices!
42/- Fancy All-Wool Tweed Sports Coat, “made by David
Jones.” Standard quality. Sale Price, 37/6. .
And with Cash Discount, at JJ U
£6/6/- Men’s Two-Piece American Palm Beach Sac Suit in
fawns, browns and greys. Now for Sale Price, *jc%t
80/-. And less Discount for /
12/6 Poplin Shirts in good variety of woven stripe pat-
terns. Now Sale Price, 7/6. Less 10 per cent. _
Cash Discount, Nett Price O/i/
4/6 Broad-end Ties. Colors for every suit. Sale
Price, 1/11. And less Discount, nett XjU
12/6 Cey'ionette Pyjamas in warm Winter-weight. Good
wearing. All sizes. Sale Price, 9/11. Less §lll
further 1 0 per cent. Discount for Cash m. M.
We pay the carriage ,
DAVID JONES’ SALE
American poetry flows cheerfully on in a
sustained swirl of originality. A reader feels
inclined sometimes to shut his ears and
cry “They all sing together and they all
sing out of tune.” But that is not so. The
trouble with this vogue for self-expression-
at-all-costs is that the good work often goes
down under a smother of rubbish. A beauti-
ful thought or phrase is lost in a veritable
diarrheea of words.
This, for instance, comes out of eight
weltering pages:—
0 for your wild halloo across the clover,
Your swimming dawn of hair,
All the blind, brave delight for ever over—
-0 for your long halloo across the clover!
But now an ancient, ghastly fellow-rover
Finds you more fair!
The theme is old, and more or less trite,
but there is something inexpressibly poig-
nant about that reverberating “long halloo.”
The verse lies at our feet like a sun-fired
dewdrop in a wet lawn. But is it worth the
eight pages? No! Yet if the eight pages are
scrapped the “long halloo” will be scrapped.
And that would be a pity.
Another example, but of different calibre,
is J. Corson Miller’s “The Sunset Horn
from Caerleon.” It is beautiful enough to
quote in full, so perhaps criticism is cap-
tious, but its very beauty makes one’s soul
ache with the wish that the whole poem
had been up to the standard of “One rolling
flare”:—
All day the sentry guarded the gates of iron
That hung above broad stairs of Kentish stone.
The velvet flower of the blue autumn fading
Was drenched with dust of battle, seaward blown.
Armored and mailed in the pride of Arthur’s order,
And holding aloft the jewelled horn of evening,
Fashioned from elephant’s tusks and a stag’s jaw-
bone,
He stood alone.
And the moat heard, and the fields and vales of
Avalon,
And the waves on the coast, as they broke into
feathers of foam,
And the oaks of the north —the gulls, the eagles,
the blackbirds,
And the savage pagan hordes under hut and dome
All heard, as the sweeping music scoured the gloam.
One rolling golden flare for their faith in the Father,
One swimming silver stave for their love for the
Son,
Then a blend of strains for their hope in the Holy
Spirit
And the sunset horn from Caerleon was done. ■. .
The great gates, closing, sang in their iron might,
The iron heels of the sentry merged with the night.
Out of all the pother the great people
will emerge to stand beside Whitman and
Eugene Field, Amy Lowell, Harriet Munro.
Louis Untermeyer, Sandburg, Whitcombe
Riley, Yachel Lindsay, Sara Teasdale and
Branch Cabell.
Every age has to throw overboard the
vernacular of the last one before its own
becomes established, and this applies par-
ticularly to poetry. In Australia we still
suffer from epidemics of opes, ’twixts and
eres in our poetry, although they have long
disappeared from our speech. America has
relegated them to the days of antimacassars
and “bustles” along with the pedants who
wrote them and the simpletons who read
them. It is high time we did likewise.
Nevertheless, for shee'r bathos I am sure
Australia couldn’t beat this: —
I seldom eat my friend the calf,
I rarely eat my friend the lamb,
For seemingly by more than half
A brother to the beast I am.
And so I am to thrush and lark,
But walking down a foreign street,
I saw some dead in shops to eat,
Instead of living in the park.
Before I’d eat a singing bird,
Or rob this world of one sweet word,
I’d tear this tongue from out my head
And leave a voiceless man instead!
Poor fellow! Perhaps it would be just as
well if he did. But now that a learned
botanist has declared that vegetables have
nervous systems, we might logically con-
clude that a leek’s odor, for instance, was
its form of song and praise to God, so our
kind-hearted friend would have to starve.
He probably will, anyway, if he continues to
write verse like that.
Jean Untermeyer’s “Lake Song” will be
remembered while there are white breasts
and women’s hearts in the world. It is
written in the exquisite rhythm of a tide:
The lapping of lake water
Is like the weeping of women,
The fertile tears of women
That water the dreams of men!
Reading American poetry, one feels that
beauty lies waiting, like the naiad who
“ ’mid her reeds pressed her cold finger
closer to her lips.” Maybe, when the
pioneering days are over, she will emerge,
passionate, powerful and perfect, a national
and a universal spirit of poetry. If Aus-
tralia were half as far on the road she
might rejoice exceedingly.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.
Learned Sock and Gaudy Garter
Voltaire said that if there were no God it
would be necessary to invent one. And if
there were no illusions most people would
be compelled to invent some; for illusions
are adjuncts as necessary to the mental
equipment of average humanity as suspen-
ders are to socks. So L. Phillips proudly
displays (R.P. 12/l/’2B) the type of meta-
phorical suspender most suitable for holding
up the dramatic hose. It is the illusion that
“genuine great drama” as written by Shak-
speare, Synge and Abercrombie depends for
its greatness on its intellectual content, and
therefore must be taken seriously.
For having committed the most unpar-
donable sin in the dramatic decalogue by
calling the theatre a species of Punch and
Judy show, I have been accused by Mr.
Phillips of talking nonsense in regard to
art. I now commit the further heresy by
saying that a work of art may be an insult
to the intelligence, and dramatic art fre-
quently is. Therein lies the paradox. There
is no law compelling great art and intellect
to share the same bed; and not infrequently
they sleep far apart. The man who per-
forms a perfect feat of jugglery is an artist,
but there is no illusion concerning his claim
to intellect. He has probably never heard
of Einstein; and may even think that
radium is a vegetable. But the dramatist
is continually hitching up his intellectual
sock in an endeavor to create the illusion
of high thinking. This is what spoils so
many plays in that perfectly delightful
doll’s-house, the modern theatre.
Serious drama is and always has been a
failure. Once the dramatist puts on the
learned sock he is done for. Strindberg,
who possessed most of the tools in the
dramatic kit, exchanged them for the sock
of intellect and tried to turn the theatre
into a psychopathic clinic. Ibsen once had
an itch for the sock, but finding it con-
tinually slipping down, happily bought a
new suspender. The same thing happened
to Shaw; but Galsworthy remains without
garters. There are more sound ideas in the
plays of Eugene Brieux than in the whole
of Beaumont and Fletcher; but he is too
preoccupied to pull his socks up, and the
audience is rather revolted at the sight of
his naked legs.
The dramatists of the learned sock have
their small and faithful following. As
W. L. George put it: “A small
section, known as the elect, has discovered
the serious drama, and pursued it through
dreary matinees in obscure assembly-halls,
but it has never been so large as to inter-
fere with the traffic in the Strand.” The
majority, however, stick to their Punch and
Judy show; to Shakspeare with his gaudy
heroines and passionate swains, his knaves
and fairies and noblemen with their mob
ideas; to the linked sweetness of the
romantic Barrie; to the burlesquing and
paradoxical Shaw, the most conventional of
them all; and to a hundred others whose
names are eclipsed in the brightness of the
“star” who mouths their pleasant words; For
the great dramatists have found that the
learned sock by itself slips down, and that
the mob are innocently hoaxed by the
gaudiness of the garter which holds up
their show of intellect. Those whom the
sock fits wear it; but the great artists, fol-
lowing the example of “Fancy’s child,” ex-
hibit the gorgeous suspender as well.
REG. S. ELLERY.
A Satchel of Books
A Vagabond in Fiji, by Harry L. Foster
(John Lane). An unconventional book deal-
ing lightly, though not loosely, with life in
the South Seas, for the writer’s travels
include Samoa and Tonga.
Windmills and Waterways, by Laurence
Irving (Heinemann). A record of a cruise
in the Pamela Mary along the Dutch water-
ways by a grandson of Sir Henry Irving.
The letterpress is interspersed with original
sketches. A work full of charm.
This London, by R. Thurston Hopkins
(Cecil Palmer). In this volume the author
gives the places visited such touches as this:
“Just at the corner of the bridge on the
Surrey bank lying near Southwark Cathe-
dral are the steps mentioned by Dickens as
being the spot where Nancy had an interview
with Rose Maylie and Mr. Brownlow.”
Christison of hammer mo or, by M. M.
Bennett (Alston Rivers). A welcome con-
tribution to the histories of Australia’s
pioneers. Robert Christison arrived in Aus-
tralia in 1852. After about 10 years’ experi-
ence among sheep and cattle in Victoria
young Christison went to Queensland and
became one of the adventurous band who
opened up the then almost waterless coun-
try of the far west and north. In later
days he was a promoter of the frozen-meat
trade and the artesian bore. A considerable
section of the book is devoted to Christison’.*
experiences among the aborigines, in whom
he found both intelligence and good qualities.
A compilation from letters and diaries, the
book is a valuable record of personal experi-
ences and observations.
These Men Thy Friends, by Edward
Thompson (Knopf; Robertson and Mullens).
During the war nobody knew much about
what was going on in Mespot. In this book
the author of “An Indian Day” presents a
soldier’s view of the affair, using actual
battle plans and army orders, but fictitious
names. He peoples the horrid panorama of
the desert with incompetent Indian generals,
snobbish regular officers and battery com-
manders with an evil record for shelling their
own lines, who get promotion for their social
graces. But with an almost Olympian
tolerance he makes them all pathetic puppets
of forces mightier than themselves —and even
more imbecile. Four characters march to
their destiny in the final pages, which are
full of a passionate beauty lifting the book
clean out of the war-novel ruck.
The Maori, Past and Present, by T. E.
Donne (Seeley Service and Co.). The author
writes with the authority of exceptional ex-
perience. For over 50 years he has known
the Maori intimately, his official positions
having brought him into contact with nearly
every tribe in Maoriland. His book fills a
place of its own in the literature on the
subject. The Maori has been the subject
of ethnological and philological works, anu
of many other scientific inquiries into his
being; it has remained to this author to
sketch in broad outline the great changes
that have taken place in the conditions of
Maori life through the influence of the
white man. “The Maori has, in general,”
says the writer, “won my regard for his sen-
sibility, loyalty and kindly nature; respect
for his rectitude, and admiration for his
nobility of character When the Maori
first met the white man he was an anthro-
pophagous barbarian; to-day he is a loyal,
reputable, law-abiding citizen of high aspira-
tions and a valuable unit of the British
Empire.” An eminently readable book, in
which the more solid matter is relieved by
anecdote and illustration, it covers a wide
range of interest, from clothing to court-
ship. from tattooing to religious beliefs, from
witchcraft to morality.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submittedj and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
G.R.8.: You’ve got the ideas, but you’re
either careless or have a poor notion of the meaning
of words... .F.S.H.: A good story, a very human
story up to a point. Don’t think you’ve made enough
of the conflict in the girl’s mind... .Peter I.: Your
dialogue is weak... .K.A.J.: It is still not well told.
And, after creating a heroine, why unnecessarily
make a liar of her?... .Mercedes: You’ve greatly im-
proved. But the young man isn’t worth all that.
....Neuter M.: Only super-brilliance could hare
saved it. .. .F.P.F.: Good old melodrama. And you’re
weak on your mining law... .C.B.St.L.: Caught,
bowled, stumped and leg-before—you fail at almost
every point.... Ben G.: First-class material wasted.
....Motuku: Somehow it lacks the sense of reality.
. ...N.P.: On the strength of your poetess having
had her first poem published in an American journal
you ask The Bulletin to print a column of rhap-
sodical biography illustrated by a bad photograph....
G.S.A.: You may be a good poultry-farmer, but you
know nothing about lays... .P.L.M.: Overstressed
like that it’s merely a nasty libel. Don’t
you think it possible for a man who wears a par-
son’s coat to believe in what he preaches ?.... 0.M.:
“Pegasus” suffers from stringhalt. Also it’s more
like a centipede than the winged horse.... Jus. P.:
Went to sleep three times trying to read it. That’s
all the chances a story can be allowed.... Cam D.:
“The Sea” sank into a grave unwept, uncoffined and
unknown... .D.R.T.: It is almost epic:—
Oh, how she loves her mother,
Oh, how she loves her dad,
Oh, how she smiles upon us
When things are good or bad!
Hope you don’t owe your tradespeople like that....
Arthur T.: It is “A Flower” that bloomers—in nearly
every line... .Macbeth: Thy bones are marrowless;
thy flesh is c01d.... Bert F. S.: “And—and—
and!” A regular ’and-0ut!....Ge0 R.: Rather
risky, wasn’t it, for a girl like that to buy her
dad a pair of slippers ?.... Tyro: Too much pun and
no punch L.L.N.: “The Favorite” started well,
and was going strongly at the fourth page. Then
it started to fade out, and at the 18th page
was beaten by the distance. The distance
would have beaten it anyway... .Glamis: Sound
sentiment, but slight interest... .P.E.S.: Origi-
nal idea; story well written, but not suit-
able. Submitted to Mirror .... Kenn: Very
near but not quite; leaves an indefinite impression ;
too inferential for average reader. .. .S.S. and N.A.A.:
Sent to Mirror R.L.W.: Have to give both “the
cold blue eye”... .L.8.R.; No quotation for glass
Anne P.: Well-written study of suicide, but too many
corpses on hand already. .. .R.J.R.: Crudely written
and very dismal D.W.: A sympathetically-drawn
picture of a fine character, but biography rather
than story.... J.A.W.: Horrible. .. .A.C.W.: It moves
us not. 410: Not up, but we’ve read worse first
efforts 8.M.C.: A very poor lot Soames:
Pretty—in fact, too pretty Dick Dachound:
Doesn’t amuse M.C.P.: Rather dreary A. 8.:
Foundered with all aboard.... Fanuel: Slight....
D.F.: Merely a list... .E.F.W.: As heavy as a hope-
less heart... .E.A.: One heartfelt line:—
’E makes this blarsted wireless stuff—’e’s got a rat.
....Elouera: You’re not the first to believe that so
long as the rhymes are right a rondel has been
achieved. They’re deceptive little creatures....
D. 8.0.: Surely you don’t ask us to believe that is
original!... .H.C.: Good stuff in it, but scarcely
suitable.... Joan B.: Turned down your “Fickle
Friend” D.8.W.: Good material spoilt by crude
construction N.W.: Lion rambles too much and
too far C. 0.: Too long; needs pulling together.
. ...0.5.R.: Bloodstained shocker removed frotn pre-
mises. ... A. A.: Story like one of its characters,
“scanty of mind and body.” .... V.C.W.: Swamped.
. ...A.E.: Amusing in parts, but too diffuse.. ••
D.M.F.: Badly carpentered, and style tedious and
confused L.W.L.: Too damp for a warm recep-
tion Z.V.W.: Should suit a parish magazine
2L.0.: Interest too slight Larrap: You have the
bricks; learn how to build... .F.S.G.: Too much
ado about a worthless female... .J.W.: Corpse of
“Bill Harris” coffined J.M.: We could forgive
your hero for being dirty and unshaven if he were
at all interesting S.R.G.: “Tin Hare” has no go
in it Brolga: “The Day that New South Wales
Was Born” was too much to bear... .E.A.: Doesn’t
match our complexion N.P.F.: Sorry, you left it
nearly 10 years too late.... Ivory D.: Thin....
Trev,: It couldn’t have happened... .M.P.S.: Oh yes,
we want more. But with greater quantity we want
higher quality. And we’re getting it too. .. .Pedis:
A gurgle of pompous polysyllables. Simplicity and
sincerity—they are the two virtues likeliest to carry
a writer to the Great White Throne... .P.J.R.: Don’t
like it any better. Even P. G. Wodehouse finds it hard
work now to keep his readers awake when he plays
a long piece on that string... .D.0.D.: Why not tell
your own story? Why invent some Old Joe to do it?
. ...A.G.S. (Carlton): You can write; but this time
you didn’t find much to write about.... Diarmid:
A tangled tale E. and 0. E.: N.S.F Soames:
Hasn’t the strength to pull through... .W.H.T.:
Quite well done; but the ending is such an old
friend that it kept knocking off to ask us about the
family... .John S.: Willie’s conversion has often
interested us more. .. .Pica: Much buzz and little
honey.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.K.; No use for figures cut out from other papers
and pasted on cardboard... .S.D.: “Drawn from
Memory” received —you must have a rotten memory.
W.W.: “The Ladies’ Cricket Match” was nothing
like it... .8.A.E.; Discard the scratchy pen you
work with, for a start... .A.D.; Before meddling
with splatters and stipples it would be as well to
learn to draw. .. .M.Y.: Mabel and Doris are lost
somewhere in the shadows of the futuristic back-
ground. .. .1.A.F.: Drawing doesn’t help the joke....
S.M.G.: Illustration carries too many labels, besides
being poorly executed... .M. J.M.: Suggestive of a
patchwork quilt.... 0.N.: The sirens of the beach
fell fiat. . . .S.T.: You need to learn something about
the treatment of textures with the pen ; a georgette
frock should not look like a knitted costume. .. .M.A.:
Try growing cabbages instead of drawing them.
There’s a great market for cabbages in Sydney....
K. 5.8 .: No hope. . . .T.T.H.: Back it goes.


9
x...
mm
'mamm
■
*
a
$
■
miwmsh:
Iwk
■>
z
Z-;
i®
. [*':
1 1
fi
HI
■
wm
vr m &
■• j
i I
V f
A
m
a
jil
.. •
:
■
i
timm
: j
m
::VZ
SUM!!
1
.
m
■
w®
l Mm§


The Bulletin
Vol. 49—No. 2504.
February 8, 1928.
“WE ARE NOT ENEMIES, BUT FRIENDS.”
UNCLE: old hoss, we couldn't fight one another if we tried!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance omyj.
Posted to ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, Weekly!
IS months, £1 J,s.; 6 months, 12s. Gd.; S months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s. J 6
months, 15s. (id.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
M anayer.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
0.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyriyht by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. whJn
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stumps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal ap)>lications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Aliroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in the Main Hall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.4 ; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.h;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, J/G Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” JfH-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2j F. Alqar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son.
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 217 Hastings
Street West, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Ofpce
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency. S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and 42nd Street , New York City; Hotaling’s
Nows Agency, 203 West J/lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 7Of Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News
Stand, 5m South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, S.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy; M.
Atmaram and Sons, 44 Chatham Street, Fort Colombo;
A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros.. Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Sura : Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Sura.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London.- —Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.4.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid:; each
additional J/oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 20z.. Id.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1928.
SHALL AUSTRALIA GO BUNG?
Priminister Bruce proposes a conference of
employers and employed to discuss what
he regards as the unsatisfactory relation of
Labor and Capital in Australia. Such a
conference has been held in England, and
the reception of it he thinks the most satis-
factory feature of national life since the
war. If in England, he asks, why not in
Australia? t
if * * *
Conference is a good thing, and some-
thing may come out of still another one.
But first it is just as well to get into our
thick heads that Australia is not England.
England is doing pretty well, after all. Her
exports, it is true, are less than her imports,
but her earnings abroad are so great that
she still has annually a large balance on the
credit side. Australia has year by year a
growing balance on the debit side. She does
not always—nowadays she does not often
—export as much as she imports, and, while
she does not earn anything abroad, except
a few thousands a year in the Malay Pen-
insula and the Islands, her interest bill
payable abroad is huge. From this it is
plain that while England could go on in-
definitely as she has been going lately,
Australia can’t go on as she has been going
lately, because her creditors won’t let her.
If we want proof that they won’t let her
we have only to consider that the Common-
wealth has been already compelled to seek
another market for her loans, getting deeply
into debt to a foreign nation in the process,
and that only about one-half of a S. Aus-
tralian loan offered last week in London
was applied for. Thus, while nothing need
be done in England, something has got to
be done in Australia. And that is a fact
that has to be realised before any con-
ference between employers and employees
can do much good.
It may be that neither party realises this.
Certainly the Labor side does not. What
The Bulletin therefore proposed at the
very outset of 1928 was that before the
year was far advanced the Labor bodies of
Australia should be invited to meet the
Board of the Commonwealth Bank or, alter-
natively, the representatives of all the Aus-
tralian banks. These gentlemen know what
the position is and whither Australia is
drifting. They no more represent Austra-
lian Capital than, they do Australian Labor.
As bankers they are interested in the pro-
duction of wealth and the maintenance of
national solvency. Australian Labor, unless
it wants to be an ostrich, burying its stupid
head in the sand, ought therefore to be glad
to meet these men. They are the financial
experts of Labor just as much as they are
the financial experts of Capital. The savings
of the people of Australia are enormous;
and into the hands of these people has been
committed the investment and security of
those savings. Whether the distribution of
the wealth produced is right or wrong does
not come into account here at all. All
that comes into account is whether enough
wealth is being produced to keep • the
nation from going bankrupt—not John
Smith or Tom Smith, but the nation. The
nearer we get to national bankruptcy the
worse it is" going to be for the working
man. He is the one who will suffer most.
Indeed, he has begun to suffer already. The
first and surest indication of approaching
bankruptcy is a curtailment of credit. The
would-be borrower finds more and more
pockets buttoned against him. In Australia
this means, for a start, the curtailment of
public works; and, since we have built up
a body of men wholly dependent upon
public works for a job, this means instant
unemployment. South Australia and N.
S. Wales in particular are at this moment
suffering from just that. And unfortunately
it is not merely a question of borrowing
for future spending. We must borrow to
pay for past spendings as well. Hitherto,
in recent years particularly, we have
borrowed for short terms, and we have
pledged ourselves to repay those loans.
The only way we can do it is by borrow-
ing afresh. If we can’t do that, then we
can’t pay what we have contracted to pay;
in other words, we become a defaulting
nation. And that will be the end of our
borrowing—for many years, at any rate.
And the end of our borrowing will be the
end of those public works which have
maintained so many—so far too many—
of our people. The man who has nothing
to lose may be inclined to say, “What do
I care for your national bankruptcy? How
much worse off am I going to be? How
much worse off can I be?” He can be a
great deal worse off. To-day things have
not to get very bad before there are calls
on the Government for relief works. But
if the Government is bankrupt, what then?
* * * *
That the Board of the Commonwealth
Bank or representatives of the Australian
banks would meet the representatives of
Australian Labor, and show them in figures
exactly what has taken place during the
last few years, The Bulletin has no doubt
whatever. The Labor representatives can
come to their own conclusions on the
data. The great thing is to get the data
before them. Without it they must be
working in the dark. It is quite possible
that some of the employers are just as ill-
informed. The bankers will be quite as
ready, no doubt, to discuss the position
with them.
YALLOURN.
“Minin’,” said the Lancashire lad.
“Thaht’s not minin’—thaht’s playin’ wi’
mood pies!” And he spat contemptuously
into the open cut.
Mining at Yallourn, which is 90 miles
east of Melbourne, is certainly not mining
in the old-fashioned sense of the word.
There are no slaves of the lamp descend-
ing into the bowels of the earth, to lie for
hours picking at the diamond-hard roof
of the tunnel above them. There are no
blind pit ponies or undersized child
workers. And the “coal” at Yallourn looks
like brown mud. The moisture in it can
almost be wrung out with the hand like a
sponge. It lies 20 to 30 feet under the
soil, a flat, glutinous mass 174 feet thick.
The field covers 30 square miles, and there
are 6000 million tons of coal within six
miles of the power-house, if I have the
figures supplied me by Mr. Dixon, the
assistant geenral-manager, right. A nought
either way doesn’t matter much, in *any
case, as enough has been located to supply
Victoria’s requirements for the next 2000
years.
The overburden is removed by a steam
dredge, leaving the smooth brown surface
of the deposit bare. An electric shovel
then proceeds to peck at the coal. In the
four years that the scheme has been in
operation it has eaten its way into the cake
to a depth of 70 feet over what looks like
half a square mile of area. From the top
of the incision the engine-house on the
tail of the shovel looks like a watchman’s
shed, although it is as big as a city ware-
house, and the strokes the shovel makes
look quite leisurely, although it brings
away 64 tons with every scoop. Portly
trucks on an endless chain creep down
into the cut and drift slowly across
its floor underneath the scoop. They
receive their loads without breaking their
step, and then proceed around the cut as
if on a tour of inspection and emerge on
the top again, removing in this unspectacu-
lar way about as much coal as 1000 miners
would manage at Wonthaggi. Once on the
surface they divide, some of them deliver-
ing their spoil at the power-house and the
others at the briquetting plant.
Regarded as fuel the stuff that pours into
the briquetting factory on an endless belt
looks as satisfactory as a river of garden
soil. All but 15 p.c. of its 50 to 64 p.c. of
moisture is evaporated and five German
presses punch it into the neat little black
blocks now becoming so familiar to indus-
trialists and housewives throughout Vic-
toria. The briquettes are sold at a price
which, taking their heating value into con-
sideration, is a little cheaper than New-
castle coal. The factory is not yet on an
economic basis, a circumstance attributed
by enthusiastic believers in the enterprise
to what they describe as the check put;
upon its natural development by the cau-
tious report of an expert from overseas.
But the same does not apply to the power-
producing side. After allowing for all
operating costs, adequate depreciation and
payment of interest, that department re-
corded with jubilation a small profit dur-
ing the last quarter.
The undertaking is unique in Australia.
In fact, it is unique for the whole world.
Nowhere is the soggy stuff known as brown
coal converted into electricity and distri-
buted over such an extensive area as in
Victoria. The great transmission towers,
like troops of Wells’s Martians marching
in single file, are steadily reaching out
to the remotest corners of the State. Tra-
vellers come on them in the wildest coun-
try and wonder vaguely what they hre.
Their mere erection contains stories of
pioneering as entrancing as anything done
by Burke and Wills. Over 100 towns, in-
cluding Melbourne, run their trams, light
their homes and work their factories from
them. Their greatest range at present is
300 miles, and housewives in Albury and
Corowa, N. S. Wales, now iron their hus-
bands’ shirts with power which began its
journey in the electric shovel at Yallourn.
Even to one who, like myself, has spent
most of his life handling the tiny currents
used in submarine telegraphy, there was
much that was familiar in the operating-
room of the power-house. Two or three
men sat at a desk industriously making
notes. Beside them were automatic records
printing a diary of events all over the
State. If the proprietor of a beet-sugar
factory in Gippsland complains that his
power was cut off for half an hour, they
consult the record, which says that the
period was exactly three minutes, the rest
of the time being the measure of the beet-
sugar maker’s astonishment that anything
so fixed and immutable as the State Elec-
tricity Commission’s supply should fail at
all. These young men nonchalantly con-
trol—in perfect safety, be it said—currents
of 132,000 volts. This is the terrific pres-
sure at which the main supply is trans-
mitted to Melbourne, there to be broken
down into handier units for the use of
careless householders. As more and more
municipalities are realising the benefits of
dealing directly with the S.E.C. and are
scrapping their own ancient plants, the sys-
tem is steadily expanding, and this room
will eventually become the nerve centre
of the State.
If the Lancashire miner found the
methods of winning coal at Yallourn dis-
tasteful, he must be equally out of place
in the mining township. The 500 dwel-
lings of the Commission’s employees, all
different and yet all the same in their
simple elegance, would be a little soulless
in their perfection if it weren’t for the
gardens with which their occupants have
surrounded them. Their back yards are as
tidy as their kitchens, which are replete
with electrical drudgery-saving devices.
The shopping block, run by John Monash’s
organisation, would not disgrace Collins-
street, Melbourne. The health of the com-
munity, also run by the Commission, which
deducts ninepence weekly for the purpose
even from the maids at the hostel, is re-
puted to be as good as the pictures, run
by the Church of England, are reported to
be dull. There seems to be only one
thing of importance to cavil at about this
mining town de luxe. The Yallourners can
never own the houses they live in. They
can only rent them.
C.Q.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Government by Machine.
More %ws have been found in the N.S.W.
Family Endowment Act, “and a good many
people whom the measure intended to
benefit are excluded”—mostly, it seems,
children born outside the wedding-ring.
Faulty draughtsmanship is blamed. But
the draughtsman did not pass the law; and
if the law didn’t say what Parliament
meant it to say, then only Parliament is to
blame.
The trouble, of course, is that only now
and then is Parliament sincerely concerned
one way or the other. Our stupid party
system sees to that. Two or three men
who run the Government—and it is not
always two or three—want a thing done,
because some outside crowd with a pull
has put the screw on. In Lang's day he
rarely troubled to consult any of his Min-
isters at all. They swallowed what he
threw on the table; and the party majority
in the Assembly did the rest. Then the
thing went on to the Council, and there
were times when the Minister in charge of
Government business said frankly that he
didn’t understand it—but there you were!
And the proposal went through, it being
the business of Ministerial members to
say Yes to Ministerial proposals and of
Opposition members to say No.
No doubt there are difficulties in the
way of Elective Ministries, but it is hard
to see how any system could work out
worse than the present plan, which in fact
is less a plan than a fatal accident.
4
Haig.
Field-Marshal Haig, who died suddenly
in Britain a few days ago, seems to
have puzzled most of his associates and
contemporaries when it came to sizing him
up. Though he was in supreme command
for three years and a half of the greatest
army the British Empire has ever put into
the field, his greatest admirer would have
hesitated to call him a military genius, just
as his enemies were far from asserting that
he was a taciturn figurehead who knew
just enough to keep his mouth shut.
Britain has produced few military geniuses.
The Black Prince and Marlborough cer-
tainly—though the first was as much
French as English— Cromwell, Welling-
ton and Roberts, perhaps. Yet Haig must
undoubtedly take high place among the
army leaders of ability and strength of
character who have bulked so largely in
British military history. He made as few
mistakes as his more famous rivals in the
Great War, and, in racing parlance, finished
fresher than the lot of them.
As a young man, Haig might have
stepped out of the pages of a military novel
of the period. Handsome, immaculately
groomed, fairly well-to-do, a splendid
horseman and polo player, he was the ideal
beau sabreur of the rather sloppy sort -t
fiction which “Ouida” and John Strange
Winter made popular. With all that, he
was a taciturn fellow with the traditional
Scottish virtues. He had firm friends in high
life, but never stooped to flatter them. The
politicians, as we know, were a grievous
trial to him in the hours of supreme
stress in 1918. No doubt his memoirs,
which are not to be published until long
after his death, will repay the debt he owes
them.
In some respects Haig bore a resem-
blance to our own Australian Harrt
Chauvel. They exhibited the same aloof-
ness and reserve, the same serene self-
confidence, and the same tireless assiduity
in preparation. Both were trained in the
mounted arm from their youth up, both
earned their first real distinction in South
Africa, and both were born staff officers
rather than regimental leaders. When the
Field-Marshal returned to be heaped with
national rewards and honors, the public
bought him back Bemersyde, the home oi
his family for 800 years, which had passed
to others. It was poetic justice, for the
gift rehabilitated the somewhat discredited
prophecy of Thomas the Rhymer:—
From far and wide, wliate’er betide,
There’ll be a Haig at Bemersyde.
And the Haig who has passed away might
have lived longer to enjoy it had he not
given all his time and energies to bettering
the lot of the demobilised soldier, raising
funds, finding work and assisting emi-
grants. Peace be his portion! He had a
sound claim to the title of White Man.
in all the senses of that much-abused
phrase.
♦
Bundaberg and After.
The tragedy at Bundaberg (Q.), in which
12 children undergoing immunisation from
diphtheria died and five became seriously
i'll, called imperatively for a public inquiry,
and for once the Commonwealth Govern-
ment encountered no hostile criticism when
it appointed a Royal Commission. The
serum used came from Royal Park (Vic.),
the Commonwealth serum laboratory which
was described a year ago in The Bulletin.
This institution sells serum to State authori-
ties, municipalities and private practitioners;
the profits on such sales are devoted to
further research.
The immunising process in which such
perfect faith was reposed until the calam-
ity which plunged Bundaberg into mourn-
ing begins with the injection into healthy


children of a minute amount of diphtheria
toxin. If the arm treated becomes red—
which is taken to mean that the child is
liable to diphtheritic infection—toxin-anti-
toxin is injected. The toxin part of it is
prepared from the bacillus of diphtheria,
the live germs being filtered off to obtain
the serum. It is tested by injection into a
guinea-pig of standard weight, which, if
the poison is of the required strength, must
die on the fourth day. Some of it is then
injected into a horse, carefully examined
to make sure that it is sound. After a
number of injections covering six weeks
the horse generates an anti-toxin capable
of neutralising the toxin. A mixture cf
the two comprises what was used at Bun-
daberg. Over five million units were sent
out from Royal Park last year with no ill
effect.
The Royal Park laboratory was formerly
under the control of Dr. Pen fold, now
pathologist and director of medical re-
search at the Alfred Hospital, Melbourne.
Presumably Dr. Penfold will be asked to
assist the investigators in their difficult and
gravely important task.
»
Longer Terms and Smaller Margins.
The Victorian State Savings Bank has
announced a new scheme of “advances on
farms, orchards and dwellings under the
Savings Bank Acts and the Housing and
Reclamation Act, as recently amended by
Parliament.” About the good intentions of
the persons who recently amended the Act
there is no room for doubt; in fact, phi-
lanthropy oozes from them visibly. Con-
cerning their wisdom there is less certainty.
The general tendency is to give longer terms
and to demand a smaller margin. An im-
pressive feature is the offer to advance £l3OO
on a brick, stone or concrete town house
or £lOOO on a wooden town house “subject
to deposit of £50,” which can only be taken
to mean that the institution will lend £950
on £lOOO of timber security. But an appli-
cant with two, three or four children to
support will get his deposit reduced to
£35, £3O or £25 respectively provided his
shack is within three-quarters of a mile of
a railway station or a tramway. The adja-
cency is expected to improve the prospects
of the property, though the necessity of
providing for four children can’t be reason-
ably supposed to improve the financial pros-
pects of the property-buyer.
A loan of £lOOO may be for years,
and one exceeding £lOOO for 31| years.
When a loan spreads over so much time
the early repayments include very little
principal and a great deal of interest. In
fact, the debt of £975 originally owing by
the man with four children and a wooden
domicile six furlongs from a tramway,
diminishes so slowly in the preliminary
stages of the business that for a good while
it may be possible for the mortgagor to
save two or three hundreds by quiet dis-
appearance. And so far as concerns the
minor towns, where wooden houses congre-
gate, they have no visible future while the
One Big City habit endures. Unearned in-
crement, except in the heat of a loan boom,
can hardly be looked for there.
The new scheme includes all sorts of
advances up to two-thirds or three-fourths
of valuation. It is proposed to lend to 50
per cent, of the value of the trees in an
orchard provided the loan doesn’t exceed
£5O per acre. If the new undertaking swells
to large dimensions it seems full of possi-
bilities.
+
The Political Globetrotter Once More.
“Sol. Malaprop”: Australia’s latest English
political visitor, Haden Guest, ex-M.P ,
surrounding food and drink at Sydney’s
Millions Club, made the familiar remark:
“It seems to me that your main line of
economic development is bound to be that
of your land resources.” I fail to recall a
single British visitor of sufficient note to
be reported who ever said anything differ-
ent, and I have been hearing the political
globetrotter for long enough. It would
sound better and more reliable and disin-
terested if the visitors weren’t thereby
grinding their own country’s axe, or imagi-
nary axe. It is a solid profession among
them, and doubtless a belief among some
of them, that Australia should stick to
growing things and buy its finished goods
from the Old Man in England, and not one
of them reads up his subject sufficiently to
know that if this country continues doing
that to the present extent and along the
present lines a stoppage of payment is in-
evitable, and then the Old Man will be a
much-surprised creditor.
In N. S. Wales there is a serious fear
that when the year’s accounts are made up
at 30/6/’2B the State’s “primary” indus-
tries may be found to rank: (1) Pastoral;
(2) borrowing; (3) agriculture; (4) dairy-
ing. The unstable harvest is distinctly
moderate, and the loans have been on a
robust scale. The great original purpose
of loans was to “open up the land” for the
better pursuit of the unstable harvest,
though the problem of borrowing enough
to pay interest with has now obscured the
issue. There is just a possibility that this
year the whole produce of N.S.W. agricul-
ture, as apart from dairying, may barely
equal the interest on the public debt—not
that it will be available for that purpose—
for the interest promises to be a million
more than last year’s. With this and other
startling aspects in view it is plain that the
State must devote itself much more strenu-
ously to a line of industry which pays at
least twice as well per worker employed as
either agriculture or dairying do in an
ordinary year; which is little affected by
droughts; which doesn’t involve so much
costly “opening up of the country”; which
will supply reliable customers right here;
and which may seriously aggravate the
political visitor.
In short the importing fetich must go
overboard, like Jonah or the tea which fell
into Boston harbor, to save the ship. Some-
times I wish that some British political
trippers could go with it. There are even
times when I could spare the Millions
Club, beautiful as it is.
+
In Samoa.
Though the three traders whose activities
were regarded by General Richardson, the
Administrator, as the root-cause of disaffec-
tion against him in Samoa have been de-
ported, the atmosphere of the mandated
territory and the adjoining American pro-
tectorate is still electric. As Coates, Maori-
land Priminister, put it in a recent state-
ment: —
“The native people are seriously disunited ;
a large section of them are in a state of
passive resistance to constituted authority;
they are refusing to obey the orders and
summonses of the Court, even though serious
indictable and criminal offences are involved ;
they are refusing to pay their taxes; they
are failing to search for beetles or to account
for those collected ; they are neglecting then-
plantations ; they are keeping their children
from the Government schools; and, perhaps
SEVEN YEARS AFTER.
“Mr. Bruce proposes a conference of employers and trade-union representatives with a view to arriving
at industrial peace. A similar conference was held at the instance of Mr. Hughes when he was Prime
Minister.”
EXCITED LITTLE MAN : “He’s stealing my thunder!”
TAXPAYER: “Thunder you call it!”
the most serious of all, they are rejecting
medical help and neglecting sanitary pre-
cautions.”
The reference to beetles may sound comic,
but Samoa lives on copra, and if the
beetles that attack cocoanut-trees are not
checked the occupation of the Samoan
Othello will soon be gone. As Sir Berry
Cusack-Smith discovered in 1892, when
the island was under tripartite govern-
ment: “When discontented the white resi-
dents have always retaliated by stirring up
intrigues, revolts and wars among the
natives.” They are discontented now be-
cause Samoa, in the interests of the native
race, is under prohibition, and because
Richardson, who thought traders were ex-
ploiting the natives, undertook that the
Adminstration would buy and market as
much copra as they liked to send in, at a
guaranteed price. The queer thing about
it all is that the Maoriland Labor party,
which heartily believes in the anti-liquor
ordinance so far as natives are concerned,
and has been urging that the white (or
semi-white) traders should be cut out of
the copra trade altogether, has worked it-
self up into a frenzy over the deportation
of Nelson, Gurr and Smythe. It cer-
tainly was a drastic action, but native
communities of comparatively low men-
tality can’t be governed as if they were re-
sponsible civilised individuals.
The American naval administration has
had exactly the same trouble. In that case
—it happened seven or eight years ago—
the Adminstration let things go so far that
a warship had to be sent. There were de-
portations, courts-martial and imprison-
ment with hard labor for various chiefs,
and Washington informed the Administra-
tor that he had been too weak. To-day the
Mau, the secret native organisation—mau
means “the cause”—is imploring Washing-
ton to give the eastern natives civil instead
of naval government. In the meantime
the natives under Mau domination would
refuse to pay taxes. The reply of the
Administrator, Captain Graham, was, in
effect, that he was there to govern Eastern
Samoa according to the laws of the United
States, and that he was going to do it.
Richardson’s attitude is similar, and
Coates backs him up. But there isn’t any
vast display of force, so far. Up till re-
cently there were only two white police-
men in Maoriland’s mandated territory.
Now there are six.
♦
Bedford, Britain and Uncle Sam.
Dear Bulletin, —“Matt Lowe” (B. 25/l/’2B)
begs the gods to grant me “vision,” and
the gods are unlikely to listen to a nom de
plume. Anyhow, I hope they won’t, as the
“vision” he desires for me is the “vision” of
the imported Imperialist.
The Spanish-American war was begun be-
cause Spain had so much “international
prestige” that it considered the same to be
a substitute for departed strength and suffi-
cient reason for persisting in bad govern-
ment of its own people and injustice to
alien inhabitants in Cuba. The Philippines
were a wilderness and Manila a swamp, and
the U.S.A. made it a country. It handed
back the job of government to the Filipinos,
as it had earlier handed the government of
Cuba to the Cubans. It found the Philip-
pines a forcing house of plague, leprosy and
typhus; it gave them a death-rate compar-
able to that of the most advanced coun-
tries in the world. Five years of Filipino
government put the mortality bill up to
near the pre-reform record, and the U.S.A.
had to take the job on again. Compare
this “Imperialism” of a Republic with
British Imperialism in India!
“Matt Lowe’s” remark that “such ills as
Australia suffers from American hands”
(meaning thereby the American trade ad-
vantage, which is the only “ill” I know of)
are due “to the unreasoning propa-
ganda of our Bedfords” is merely silly.
But it is a fact that one of the ills Aus-
tralia suffers at British hands is the preferen-
tial tariff that Australia foolishly gives
Britain, so that Britain packs the products
of Germany, Czecho-Slovakia and Japan
and secures preference on these alleged
British goods against the spirit of the con-
cession. And that ill is largely due to the
propaganda of our “Matt Lowes.”
Australia will have to seriously consider
these propagandists who “attempt to put
an English mind into the Australian body.”
They may yet succeed in embroiling the
U.S.A. and Britain. The English have per-
sistently derided America. Yet these very
people expect America to drop everything
in hand whenever England muddles itself
into a war and run to their relief with men
and guns.
“Matt Lowe” is engaged in an anti-
American propaganda that is English, not
Australian. He is foolish, too, because he
does not seem to recognise that his methods
of presentation must re-act against his pro-
paganda, teaching the Australian the truth
that British propaganda is, as it is meant
to be, against the best interests of Aus-
tralia.—Yours, Randolph Bedford.
♦ -
The Troubles of the Taxis.
Politically, J. T. Lang is dead, but his
ill-considered attempts to benefit the wage-
earners are still bringing forth bitter fruit.
Drivers of taxi-cabs and people who in-
vested their money in such enterprises
have been added to the multitude of vic-
tims.
Prior to the advent of Yellow Cabs, the
taxi business was a very fly-blown and
moth-eaten sort of business in Sydney.
There was outrageous plundering of the
travelling public, and some of the plun-
derers had a steady connection with the
underworld and its denizens. Yellow Cabs
gave Sydney an organised and reputable ser-
vice. The co. appeared to be making so much
money that the yellow cabs were followed
by fleets of other hues. With these came
an era of spirited price-cutting greatly
appreciated by the public, especially as
the drivers were a remarkably efficient
body of men.
With such keen competition it was in-
evitable that some of the cos. would find
they had bitten off more than they could
chew. Absorptions and amalgamations
were resorted to without impairing the ser-
vice, reckoned as a whole. But govern-
mental interference with the business was
the worst trouble. Yellow Cabs had its
profits cut in two by “Strong-man” Lang’s
swollen income-tax, his 44-hour week and
workers’-compensation and child-endow-
ment enactments, and the increased wages
handed out by “Good Old Piddo’s” tribunal.
And other cos. suffered in corresponding
measure.
In an endeavor to avoid some of these
charges one company organised itself on a
sort of co-operative basis. Its drivers
rented their cabs from the company, paid
a share of garage and other overhead ex-
penses, and kept the earnings of their cabs.
Another company proposes to reorganise
on the same basis. If it cannot do so, it
will drop out. It is the case of an indus-
try threatened with death by injudicious
legislation intended to benefit wage-earners
retaliating by compelling the erstwhile
wage-earners to take upon their own shoul-
ders the risks of the undertaking.
If it should prove impossible to reorganise
on co-operative lines, fares will have to be
increased by the surviving cos. to an ex-
tent that will almost certainly curtail the
popularity of the service. In that event
many more men will be placed on the
unemployed list. The shareholders in
Black and White Cabs threw up the sponge
last week. They had the misfortune to put
their cabs on the streets just about the
time the Forty-four Hour Week and “Good
Old Piddo” bills were going through. To
make the 44-hour week applicable to such
workers as taxi-drivers, fire-brigade em-
ployees and railway servants at quiet sta-
tions, who necessarily spend a lot of their
“working” time waiting for something to
turn up, was the silliest thing done by the
silliest Government N. S. Wales has suf-
fered under.
♦
Relief Orders on the Coalfields.
“Westcliff”: The looseness of the N.SW.
Police Regulations Act as regards food
relief for the destitute encourages these per-
sistent strikes over trivial affairs on the
coalfields.
The men and lads in Hebburn No. 2
colliery recently struck for five weeks as
a protest against the management’s employ-
ing a man they disliked. They are now back
at work with the object of their aversion.
During such a strike Mrs. A.’s credit is
stopped. She has nothing saved because
money goes as fast as it comes in. How-
ever, she knows what to do. She goes to
the police-station, signs a declaration and
receives a “relief order” for bread, meat,
flour, sugar, jam, wheatmeal, condensed-
milk, butter, rice, golden syrup and soap.
The quantities are arranged in scales from
a single man to a married couple with 10
children.
Then Mrs. 8., who has a frugal mind,
asks herself why Mrs. A. should get free
tucker “and me have to pay for mine just
because I am careful with money.” She
also applies for relief, a sympathetic police
officer says “Sign here,” and off goes Mrs.
B. with her free goods.
There are miners who drive their own
motor-cars. It is by no means uncommon
to see one take away his relief order in
his car. On the other hand, I have myself
heard, a relief-order man say to the store-
keeper: “Give us a dollar, keep a bob for
yourself and give us what you like for the
change.”
Strikers are not obliged to repay the
Government for these relief orders. If they
were, at so much each pay day, there would
be fewer strikes. Next to two-up. striking
is the national sport of the N.S.W. coal-
miner. Most of the t.-p. financiers enter
into the spirit of it by having in their con-
tracts a clause providing for no payments
during strikes.
♦
“The Bulletin” in Queensland.
As part of The Bulletin’s forward policy
a Queensland branch has been established,
with office headquarters at Victor Build-
ings, Adelaide-street, Brisbane. Distribu-
tion presents ever-increasing problems as
circulation mounts, and it has been found
necessary to set up this additional organi-
sation to handle it. Delays and irregulari-
ties in delivery will thus be minimised, and
the paper will be brought into still closer
connection with the homes and industries
of the Great Northern State.


HOTEL SYDNEY
Management: Edward T. Cheeseman.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel.
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
Throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
80ft. above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from 19/6
Bed and Breakfast from 13/-
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines).
0
m
SILVER. CAP
D
rolS
■ fISIUVE*
DRY GIN
kroN)
In the square
glass bottle with
the Green Label
r 352 YEARS >
EXPERIENCE
Auai'arvtee theii'
? Quality
EqusJlu Famous au'e BOLS Vei'y Old
HOLLAND GIN irv. tke Stone Bottle,
and BOLS Superfine LIQUEURS
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
POLITICAL
POINTS
George Fuller saved up the one joke
of his life till he was about to leave as
N.S.W. Agent-General. lie is going to Eng-
land as the Great Decentraliser —“his policy
will be the decentralising of the marketing
of Australian goods from London to the pro-
vincial centres.” London, knowing the great
things George Fuller did for decentralisation
during his 30-odd years of public life in Aus-
tralia, may be expected to crumple right up.
The Labor spokesmen are right in insist-
ing that the unions must appoint their own
delegates to Bruce’s proposed industrial con-
ference. Bruce says that, to avoid the pre
sence of extremists, he is prepared to nomi-
nate the Labor members of the conference
himself. Suppose he does, whom are they
going to speak for? And what are the
chances of the conclusions arrived at having
the smallest weight with the unions? The
Friminister has a perfect right to pick men
to speak for themselves or even for himself;
he lias no right at all to pick men to speak
for his political opponents.
After trying for two months to see if it
wasn’t all nonsense that two and two make
four and that if you have a pint of beer
and drink it you haven’t a quart left, the
Vic. Labor Government has had to dismiss
700 . railway men, mostly members of the
A.R.U. Of course, it is a deplorable thing,
but the sooner we make up our minds that
rules of arithmetic are not suspended even
for Labor Governments, and that even
members of the A.R.U. can't be paid out
of an empty purse, the sooner we shall begin
to see daylight ahead.
Queensland is already becoming tangled
up over its rural industries award. This
exempts market-gardens and dairy-farms, but
it has been decided that if the dairy-farmer
has more fodder than he can pass through
the cow and turn into milk, butter or cheese
he can’t sell it without coming under the
award —-the whole award. Some of the
Government’s new settlers are looking
thoughtful, for a new complexion has been
put on the cost of clearing unless the settler
does all the work single-handed. And then
if half a tree fell on him lie would feel
lonesome.
The nightmare of threatened retrenchment
does not disturb the slumbers of West-
ralian railwaymen. Scores of men put off
in South Aus. have sought work in Jarrah-
land under Commissioner Pope, Pope, a
Gallipoli veteran, has contrived to become
as popular with his railway men as he was
with the Diggers of the 16th Battalion, and
all hands worked with a will to shift the
35-million-bushel wheat harvest to the wait-
ing ships in the shortest possible time.
That spirit, applied generally, would get
Australia out of its troubles.
Some recent cables from England had a
strange and unexpected note of optimism;
they said that unemployment is diminishing,
and that the industrial corner is possibly
turned at last. The Cold Country has been
“sneaking iri Protection,” to use a phrase
familiar to N.S.W. in Dibbs-Reid days, for
some time, and a fair number of its Pro-
tective duties are as high as 33J per cent.
This may help to explain the improvement.
“The buoyancy of the railway revenue is
a sign of the State’s soundness,” says one
of the usual type of critics of N.S.W. finances.
“Recent slight increases in fares and freights
have already brought in an extra £670,000.”
And if a man was bleeding a pig and gave
the knife another turn, he would no doubt
produce an extra spurt; but it wouldn’t
imply that things were particularly healthy
for the pig.
The Federated Council of the National
Roads Association has made the rather un-
grateful statement that the Federal road
grant of £2,000,000 a year for 10 years
is inadequate. That may be, but it is within
the bounds of possibility that the Federal
funds will also prove inadequate, and at
rather short notice. The road grant, the
new sinking fund and the constant increase
of the interest bill are serious problems,
and the way public-works payments out of
revenue shrink while those out of loans
swell up by millions reeks of badly-concealed
embarrassment.
Ex-N.S.W. Premier Lang, talking about
the vast difference between the A.L.P. and
the “Reds,” says that Australian Labor
leaders like Mat. Charlton and himself be-
lieve in “constitutional action.” Of course
they do. Let Mr. Lang make the laws, and
lie won’t ask for anything more. Why
should he? What is there he can get any
other way that he can’t get that way?
Mr. Lang apparently thinks he gives him-
self a fine certificate of character by describ-
ing himself as a constitutional reformer.
Actually a man who makes bad use of
constitutional power may be as much an
enemy of his country as a plain revolutionist.
A carving knife is quite a useful instrument,
but a man may do almost as much damage
with it as with a sword.
The man who can keep track of all the
bodies which are nowadays supposed to speak
for the workers of Australia shouldn’t have
much difficulty in landing a job as a sleuth.
When it isn’t Grayndler who is telling Scul-
lin to let somebody talk who really knows
what he is talking about, it is somebody
else. The only person who never does any
talking at all is the worker; he isn’t allowed
to —everybody is supposed to know what his
opinions are better than he knows them him-
self. No wonder there was a howl and a
yelp from all the professional gramophones
the other day when the Federal Government
proposed a law to give trade unionists a
chance to have a word for themselves. But,
of course, the louder the yelp the greater
the need for the law.
Cohen, M.L.C., the only barrister in the
Vic. Parliament, has repeatedly called atten-
tion to the inadequate pay of the Supreme
Court Judges—-£3OOO for the C.J. and £2500
each for the other five. Prior to 1904, when
a retrenchment measure, passed at the
instance of George Turner, became effective,
the rates were £3500 and £3OOO respectively.
The irony of the business is that a Judge is
to be appointed to decide what are adequate
screws for members of the Leg. Assembly.
Comrade Wright, of the Metal-trades
Union, has told Sydney Trades and Labor
Council all about Soviet Russia —he has just
spent three months there. When you turn
the Comrade’s report inside out you see what
a fine bit of democracy the Soviet is. First:
“Of a total population of 143,500,000, the
peasants numbered 120,000,000.” Later:
“Industrial workers received unemployment
benefits, but not the peasants. To give them
such benefits would be impossible. They
would all be wanting it.” In other wonls.
things are so terrible for 84 out of every 100
Russians that if they could get unemploy-
ment relief they would all rush it. They
haven’t got a vote, either.
There is a sort of superstition that there
always have been well defined parties in
Parliament. It is true that since Consti-
tutional Government arrived in Australia
there has always been a Government and an
Opposition; but it isn’t true that the V'hole
country divided itself into two permanent and
hostile camps. In N. S. Wales before Federa-
tion there certainly was a Freetrade and a
Protectionist party; but in States where
this fiscal issue was out of the way some-
thing a good deal more like Elective Min-
istries than anything we have nowadays was
tjhe rule. In S. Australia, for instance,
Kingston and Holder and Gordon and Cock-
burn were all colleagues at one time and at
other times they were divided. When the
State was sick and tired of constant changes
it called for a “Ministry of all the talents,”
which carried the State right through its
most difficult years—lB93-99.
Royal family affairs in the Balkans are
occasionally mixed. Prince Carol, of
Roumania, offers to withdraw his resignation
of the succession, and depose his son (the
present boy king), and accept the throne
(which is apparently not offered to him),
provided he is allowed to divorce his second
wife, the boy king’s mother (his farst wife
was also divorced), and marry the lady whose
bolt with him to Paris began the complica-
tion. She was another man’s wife at the
time of the bolt, but the other man isn’t
heard of nowadays. Presumably he pro-
poses to elevate the third wife to the throne,
but whether her son, if there is one, is to
supersede the second wife’s son doosn t
appear. It is somewhat reminiscent of
David’s elopement with Mrs. Bafchsheba
Uriah, and the way her son, Solomon, jumped
the claim of the previous wives’ sons, who
had the misfortune to peg out violently.
Prime Minister Bruce at Box Hill (Vic.) :
While I agree that Australia’s borrowings have
been heavy, I am not concerned by the amount of
those borrowings, but I am as to the purposes for
which the moneys have been employed. With regard
to the question of ensuring that borrowed moneys
will only be expended for sound developmental pro-
jects, great difficulties exist owing to the sovereign
rights of the Commonwealth Parliament and of the
individual State Parliaments.
Can Mr. Bruce point out any “develop-
mental project” which will return a revenue,
not in Australian paper, but in gold, the com-
modity which is in clamorous demand to pay
interest on our ever-increasing loans abroad?
He borrows money himself for ammunition,
lighthouses, immigration, etc. Are these
soundly developmental, or what?
The dull, stodgy agricultural row in
Russia is on again, if it was ever really off.
The State buys surplus grain at its own
price, which is said to be about the pre-war
rate; but owing to the inefficiency of the
factories, managed by good Communists, local
goods are scarce and dear, and owing to
lack of money with which to pay for them
imported goods are the same. Ivan Mujik
goes on strike now and then by holding
back grain supplies. This time he is said to
have added an insurrection to his activities,
but Russia is a silent and tomb-like place
from which important information escapes
with difficulty, like a man breaking out of
gaol with a penknife.
The Federal basic wage has been put up
2s. 6d. per week in N.S.W. to meet the in-
creased cost of living caused by Langism,
and the extra wage will increase the cost
of living, and possibly reduce the supply of
work a little by making it more difficult
for local products to compete, with imports.
So the situation may shortly have to be
reviewed again. No matter how hard the
hindquarters of the ass sprint to overtake
the forequarters it is a long stern chase.
The Optional Vaccination Act now in
force in Vic. was passed at the instance of
A. li. Outtrim, who was “father” of the
House at the time. Beckett, Minister for
Health, wants to do away with the last ves-
tiges of compulsion, as experience has shown
that most parents have or profess to have
conscientious scruples. He included a clause
in a bill before the Uppish House last ses-
sion, but the measure was not dealt with
by the Assembly. While waiting for the bill
to be revived next session Beckett has de-
cided not to sanction any more prosecutions.
Senator Jack Barnes has been again
elected president of the great A.W.U., the
most influential Labor body in the Common-
wealth. Fair-minded and level-headed, Jack
Barnes nevertheless contrives to talk a great
deal of claptrap. And thereon hangs one of
our most serious problems. Ever since he
was a young man he has been the servant
of labor-unions. Nearing middle-age he went,
into Parliament and, except for one break of
three years, he has been there ever since. Of
course, he isn’t a rich man ; he has been able
to put by very little for the dry day. How
can a man be as independent as he ought to
be and would like to be in those circum-
stances? Another old Labor politician—say,
•John Smith —was once asked what he thought
of something or other. “John Smith,” he
said, “is too old and poor to afford to think.”
And it is too true to be comfortable.
The N.S.W. Savings Bank will go into
its new head-office in Sydney in June, and
it is suggested that the State Government
should buy the old quarters in Martin-place
for £300,000 or more. • Additional Govern-
ment. offices are said to be needed. But they
are not needed in so expensive a street.
Nine-tenths of the work of Government de-
partments could be done and ought to be
done in back streets or cheap inner suburbs.
In the past when any sort of Government
office was called for in Sydney a building
to give the least possible accommodation
for the money was put up on the most
expensive site; and it is a question whether
it wouldn’t be cheaper to demolish and re-
build some of the elaborate ill-lighted rabbit-
warrens like the Lands Office.
N.S.W. Minister for Justice- Lee has
made the astonishing discovery that the
State’s country pubs are a rather shocking
lot; and he has an idea of appointing half
a dozen officers who will do nothing but
inspect pubs. No doubt many country
Bungs are loafers; but that isn’t the only
thing to blame. Their charges are too low;
the Australian hotel customer wants an
awful lot for his money. And the country
township is mostly too poor to give much
help. And that is the fault not of Bung but
of Governments which, say what they like,
fleece the rustics at every chance. And, of
course, the unions help, by making the
running of the railways cost 50 p.c. more
than it should. When Cocky has paid his
tucker bills and his freight bills he hasn’t
much left to spend on Bung.
“Chainman” : “The Ringer’s” two men (B.
25/l/’2B) could alter no more than two
miles of the Emungalan-Daly Waters sec-
tion of the North-South line, as there is only
that distance laid with sleepers such as he
describes. From the Katherine River bridge
to railhead, which was 75 miles from the
bridge when I left there in November, the
sleepers are of a totally different type and
are not long enough for the 4ft. Bsin. gauge.
All work ceased, by the way, on December 22.
Even if there is some delay in bringing off
a meeting between trade-union representatives
and the representatives of the banks, there
need not be much in bringing together the
arbitration Judges, etc., and the bankers. Most
of these Judges have to fix a basic wage or
a living wage or a standard wage or some
other device for catching votes, and there
is no man on earth who can tell for certain
what a fair living wage is. It isn’t a matter
of fact; it is a matter of opinion. But there
are plenty of bankers who can tell what basic
wage is not possible. Arbitration Judges are
very ordinary men, really ; and probably not
one in a dozen of them knows how Australia
has been faring the last dozen years—whether
it has been really paying its way under the
wages, etc., in force. The bankers ought to
be eager to meet them. The Bulletin would
hate to think of its own banker out of a
job; yet lots of bankers will be out of a
job if Australia goes on living beyond its
earnings.
Sydney’s latest “record” has been a para-
chute descent. About every sixth day an
attack is made on the motor record from
Melbourne to Sydney, and when it isn’t from
Melbourne to Sydney it is from some place
to somewhere else. Newcastle has had a
long-distance dancing exhibition, and the first
public reception given by Sydney’s new Civic
Commissioners was to some travelling French-
men who can play tennis better than most
people. There are record crowds at cricket
matches, and money doesn’t matter when it
comes to buying a horse suspected of being
able to gallop faster than anything else in
sight. The only thing in which we are
darned sure we mustn’t have any record-
breaking is work. Even the law regards
that as a curse that must have the lid put
on it as soon as possible.
In each State which hasn’t got a Labor
Government there is a loud cry of unemploy-
ment. Perhaps there are many unemployed.
But if a bookie yelled “Two to one Skinnem”
and didn’t book a bet. it would probably
mean that his price wasn’t good enough.
And that’s precisely what it means when
there are many unemployed in the land.
The Pan-American Congress, sitting in
Cuba, has “upheld the principle of the right
of oppressed people to revolt.” Fortunately
or unfortunately that states only half the
case. “Thank God for the sacred right
of revolution !” exclaimed John Hancock in
the Victorian Parliament 30 years ago. “And
thank God, too, for the sacred right o’ hang-
ing !” cut in dour Duncan Gillies: and the
sacred right of revolution at once lost most
of its attractiveness.
The noisy Bolshevik, who is so anxious to
“liberate” Australians and Chinamen and
sundries, is a worse failure than even many
of his enemies debit him with being. When he
came on the scene he upset a young and
fairly hopeful republic, not a monarchy. The
country had gained manhood suffrage, and
the Bolshie disfranchised a lot of people. The
farmers had acquired an immense amount
of the land they tilled; the new men con-
fiscated the lot and made it Government
property. The next move was to declare
public property all farm produce except what
was needed for the supply of the farmer
and his family ; in consequence the agricul-
turist tried to raise in a lazy way just what
he wanted, and hid that to the best of his
ability. Passive resistance brought about
some improvement, but Ivan Vodski never
legally recovered his land. The all-wool Com-
munist still holds that the great idea was
right even though it went wrong, and he
yearns to try it all over again on some-
body.
Federal insurance legislation is men-
tioned again. Nine-tenths of all that is
really needed could be provided in a bill of
about three clauses —-and most of all the
rest that is likely to be proposed will be
mere hindrance and vexation. In the case
of life offices a clause should require every
office to maintain approved securities equal
to the total liabilities under policies, future
earnings being reckoned at not more than
4 per cent. With one or tw r o clauses to
make that one operative, not much harm
could then happen to the public.
THE MEN THAT WERE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“These politicians now are not,” said Dad,
“The sort that I remember as a lad.
“They seem to me as mannikins to men
Compared with those who ran the country
then.
“Jack Robertson he’d roar and get things
done
Quick as a chap could say Jack Robertson.
“Old hairy Parkes and long robustious Dibbs,
Lord ! how they’d biff each other in the ribs.
“And, right or wrong, whichever got the‘pull
Was self-reliant, aye and masterful.
“I doubt these chaps their tongues to-day
who wag
Could fight their way out of a paper bag.
“Contrast them with the hefty crowd that
ran
Australia when the Commonwealth began.
“Barton and Deakin, men of metal fine,
The forthright Kingston and the stubborn
Lyne.
“Who wears the mantle now of jesting Reid?
What Lahorite, since Hughes, has learned to
lead?
“Pygmies, just pygmies now, where giants
were,”
Said Dad disdainfully and left it there.
And thirty years ahead will someone say:
“What duds our politicians are to-day !
“O for my youth when fellows held the stage
Like Bavin, Theodore, Bruce, Lang and
Page.”
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“B-Gar”: Queer currencies? Going broke
in Rockhampton (N.Q.) I headed for the
cotton fields and secured two days’ toil with
a cocky in the Dawson Valley. My employer
had no money, so paid me off with a dozen
kangaroo-skins, adding that any publican or
storekeeper in the district would “change”
them for me. It was a six miles’ walk
to the pub. Arriving thirsty, I called for
a pint, and passed a pelt over the bar.
For change I received four wallaroo- and two
bear-skins. Placing my remaining kangaroo-
skins along with my change, I asked what
the lot was worth. Bung was as quick as a
ready-reckoner. “You can board bere for a
week for the kangaroo-skins,” he told me,
“and have two pots a day for the wallaroo,
but there’s nothing doing with the bears; it’s
close season.” I tried the storekeeper, but he
wanted to pay me off in plum jam, so I put
NO TELLING.
TTHE BORE: “Well, old dear, I s’pose we’ll meet again?”
THE BORED: “Maybe. Accidents will happen.”
my feet under the table at the pub, and con-
sumed my two pots daily.
* * * *
“Fernie”: I can’t agree with “Mako” (B.
25/l/’2B) that Maoriland sunshine is yel-
lower than that of Australia. If it were so
the camera would require longer exposures in
Maoriland than on the other side of the
Tasman, whereas the reverse is the case. The
clearer atmosphere of the Shivery Isles lets
through a bigger proportion of violet and
ultra-violet rays, hence the severity of sun-
burn and the marvellous purple shadows over
which “Mako” enthuses. Hence also the phe-
nomenally deep blue of Maoriland skies. In
comparison with that glowing sapphire Aus-
tralian skies look like powder-blue or wedg-
wood.
* * * *
“Long Mac”: “Mako,” in comparing
Australian and M.L. sunlight (B. 12/l/‘2B),
picks smoky Sydney as representative of the
former but names no particular part of
M.L. ? If all the big cities of the Dominion
were crowded together between Auckland and
Onehunga I suspect the quality of the sun-
light would be much the same as Sydney's.
As for the “pickling power” of the light,
there arc places in Victoria, in the same
latitude as Auckland, where a few hours
exposure to the sun’s rays w’ould reduce
any Maorilander, except Hori and Henare,
to the condition of a moulting paper-bark
tea-tree. Exposure to direct sunlight in any
climate is liable to turn any pure blonde a
violet crimson, but the fair-skinned Sydney
girls burn a delicate brown because they
know how to do it. If our Maoriland
cousins would start with small doses of sun-
light, well diluted with cocoanut-oil, they
would soon acquire the same immunity. May
I add that exposure to sunlight cannot cause
infantile paralysis, which is an infectious
disease, but it may be responsible for spinal
(not cerebro-spinal) meningitis.
* * * *
“Liardet”: I met them on the Brighton
(Vic.) esplanade last Sunday, when the
many are in the waves and the few in
church. Hubby was holding
a pair of yapping, snapping
Pomeranian dogs on a leash
and wifey was pushing the
pram. The couple didn’t
look the sort which is inter-
ested in the £5 bonus, so it
occurred to me to have a
look at what the missus was
wheeling so carefully. The
babes were there all right,
but they were canine—four
tiny balls of fluff that
looked as if they were hav-
ing their first airing. No
wonder hubby had a job to
restrain the proud parents.
I would have given a quid
for Bluey, my old cattle-
dog, to clean up the pam-
pered outfit.
* * *
“Larrapinta” : On Jan. 19
two of the best windjammers
left afloat shook out their
convas and left Port Lincoln
t, 8.A.) on a race to Fal-
mouth with cargoes of
wheat. The. Beatrice and
the Herzogin Cecilie are
both four-masted barques,
Swedish and Finnish respec-
tively. The Beatrice is the
former British tea-clipper
Routenburn, built 47 years
ago at Greenock. The 1-lerzogin Cecilie
was built in Germany for the Chile nitrate
trade in 1902. She carries 1000 tons more
cargo than her rival, but has a greater
spread of canvas.
* * * *
“M.C.”: It is the general rule that pro-
bationers at hospital training-schools should
replace broken thermometers and hypoder-
mics (B. 5/l/’2B). Some eight years ago,
when I was going my “general” at the Adel-
aide Hospital, nurses responsible had to
make good patients’ losses as well. A friend
of mine had to replace a patient’s lost set
of false teeth, yet all the salary we got
in those days was £1 a month. I remember
one night when I undressed and prepared for
operation an emergency case from the
country. The patient’s suit of perfectly new
clothes, also his hat and overcoat, vanished
while he was out of them, probably stolen.
When he heard that the nurse who attended
him would be held responsible he sent word
to me by another patient that he would not
press his claim. I never saw him again,
but the years have not dimmed my gratitude.
“Trooper 296”: Men may have become
careless about what they are hanged in now-
adays (B. 25/l/’2B, but it wasn’t always so.
In 1774 “Sixteen String Jack” drove in the
Tyburn cart to the “Tree” in a bright pea-
green coat, carrying an immense nosegay
“almost too magnificent even for such a noble
occasion,” as he himself is said to have
admitted. Earl Ferrers, hanged at Tyburn
in 1760 for murdering his land steward,
dressed for the ceremony in his wedding
clothes, a suit of white and silver, and
cynically remarked that it was “as good an
occasion for putting them on as that for
which they were first made.” A landau
with six horses conveyed him to his last
appointment, and he successfully claimed
that curious prerogative of the peerage,
being hanged by a silken cord instead of
a hempen one.
* * * *
“Clement R. d’Uppe” : Talking of women
who have been hanged (B. 25/l/’2B). Saw
the exit of Minnie Dean at Invercargill
(M.L.) in the early ’nineties. Minnie, an
aged slayer of helpless babes, never flinched
as she trotted up the steps leading to the
trap, though she paused momentarily at the
bottom to pick up the over-long skirt which
threatened to impede her upward progress.
The hangman of the period, who didn’t relish
attending a woman professionally, had been
locked up in the gaol for a week before to
keep him off the booze.
“Count Drolatique” : Men condemned to the
drop may be less particular about their death
clothes than feminine assassins, but that
merely goes to show that the sexes have quite
different vanities. The commonest masculine
conceit in such cases is a certain bravado
kept up to the very pulling of the bolt.
Right up to the moment he was taken from
SAFETY FIRST.
“Dear, you never want to take a man at his own estimation.”
“Oh, I always make a generous allowance for shrinkage.”
his cell Murray, who was hanged for collu-
sion in the Glenferrie (Vic.) murder, lounged
reading or pretending to read a Deadwood
Dick, an exhibition of nonchalance that
impressed even the warders. The Newgate
calendar is full of similar stories. I recall
a murderer in an English gaol who, on being
told on his last morning that he could have
anything he liked for breakfast, said with
vacuous gaiety: “Well, waiter, bring me a
steak and onions!” Having coolly consumed
the same and being informed that he had
still half an hour before the hangman called,
he declared that he must fill in the time
somehow, and demanded “another steak with
violets.” He was just smacking his lips
over the last of it when the call came.
* * sfc *
“Vic R.”: Touching the auriferous possi-
bilities of decaying houses
in decayed mining settle-
ments (B. 19/l/’2B).
Nine years ago the hut in
which Deeming, the mur-
derer, was living when he
was arrested at Southern
Cross (W.A.) was occu-
pied by an old dryblower,
who also acted as care-
taker of Fraser’s mine, on
which the habitation
stood. One evening the
old chap was doing his
pension at the pub about
a mile away when the
shack went up in smoke.
I happened along about a
week later and found the
old caretaker - pensioner-
fossickcr dryblowing the
ashes. He had uprooted
the notorious cement
hearth, under which local
legend reckoned there
were gold deposits as well
as possibly skeletons, but
the old fellow had un-
pa rtlied neither. But from
the debris generally he re-
covered several ounces of
the dinkum stuff which
had doubtless been mis-
laid or planted by some
previous occupant.
“Mudros”: Reference to Ben Boyd’s £lO-
--year shepherds (B. 20/l/’2B) reminds me
of a society dame I met in England during
the war. ' Lloyd George’s 30-bob-a-week
minimum wage for farm-hands had just
been announced, and the lady was righte-
ously indignant. “It’s preposterous,” she
cried, “Why at the outbreak of war they
were content with less than half that. Oh,
I daresay to you Australians 12 shillings
a week for a farm-laborer would seem very
small, but you must remember the man had
his cottage, and enough land to grow all
his vegetables in his spare time. Besides
that, his wife could always get charing or
washing, so you see he was able to manage
quite well, and to bring up a large family,
if only he kept away from the public-house .”
* * ❖ ❖
“Rena”: As a result of a few years of
freedom from the expenses attaching to the
regular arrival of new pledges of affec-
tion, Brown decided to get a car.
It was an excellent make and quite satisfied
his proprietoral pride, save that it lacked
a mascot to augment the impressiveness
of its gleaming nickel-plated radiator.
Brown’s fancy in mascots ran to birds, and
it struck him that a long-legged, slim-necked
crane would have a special appropriateness,
as illustrating the capacities of his roadster.
He scoured various Sydney shops unsuccess-
fully, and had rejected birds of every variety,
from emus to kookaburras, when he sighted
the very thing lie was after in a second-
hand dealer’s window. With the treasure
tucked under his arm he hurried homewards,
and after diligent polishing proudly installed
it in its place. Next day he collected Green,
and for a couple of hours sampled the roads
round Kuring-gai. It was on the homeward
journey that Green, admiring the glitter of
the mascot in the sunshine, suddenly and in
palpable alarm exclaimed: “Good Godfrey,
Brown! That isn’t a crane you’ve got stuck
up there —it’s a stork!” Brown paled
visibly. “Helen Blazes,” he quavered, “I
hope it doesn’t bring bad luck!” But it
did. Within the year the Commonwealth
Government was £5 in debt, not only to Mrs.
Brown, but to Mrs. Green also. Brown’s
car, since then, has gone mascotless.
❖❖ 4 ❖ ❖
“Chevroford”: A street in St. Kilda put
up a record in motor accidents the other
evening, when three mishaps occurred
within 300 yards and a few minutes. In
one spot two cars collided, and one of them
ricocheted off and biffed a tram. While
the police and ambulances were collecting
tht victims news came of another smash
further down the thoroughfare. Hurrying
to this a constable nearly fell over a pedes-
trian in a run-over condition who had no
connection with either of the other incidents.
For two hours afterwards the street was
jambed with officers taking notes.
* * * *
“Gregor” : I don’t know of anybody who
has ever swum across Port Jackson (B.
25/-l/’2B), but I know of two men who
attempted it. On New Year’s Day, 1908, a
barque called the Arctic Stream was at
anchor a few hundred yards off Cremorne
Point and one of the forecastle hands bet
another that he would swim from the ship
to Point Piper, practically the breadth of
the harbor. One of the apprentices, a Welsh
lad of 19, volunteered to make a second, and
that same night the two slipped overboard
with one of the ship’s boats following. It
was bright moonlight, and save for a
brief halt near the middle of the course,
occasioned by an outgoing collier, no diffi-
culties were experienced until the swimmers
were quite close to their goal. Then the
apprentice gave up and was hauled into the
boat exhausted; a few minutes later the
other man, a Scot from Glasgow, had to
give it best. The boat returned to the ship,
and both swimmers wanted to try again the
next night, but the skipper heard about it
and entered his veto. I was in the boat.
A SONG OF THE SURF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Glossy-green breakers that turn and tumble
Under a cloudless sky;
Mountains of water that spread and crumble
Till the roar dies out in a sandy rumble
Up where the beach is dry.
Joy in the surf is the summer’s blessing,
The best that the gods ever gave;
But I must go in; it is time for dressing.
Wait—just one more wave !
Brown limbs tossing, gay voices crying
Shrill through a smother of foam ;
High in the warm air spray-flecks flying,
Prone, slim surfers shoreward hieing
As wave after wave comes home.
Rocking white water where each one lingers
Held by the sea a slave ;
But I must go in; I am blue in the fingers.
Wait —just one more wave !
Music of loud, deep-throated thunder!
In diamond, crystal and pearl
I float, I sink for a moment’s wonder
To the emerald light that pulses under,
Then up where the bubbles swirl
In a race for the land, each rider a winner.
Shouting and swift and brave.
But I must go in; I’ll be late for dinner.
.Wait —just one more wave !
Back, wade back, from the dragged wet
shingle,
Back to the turbulent sea!
Here where the white currents cross and
mingle,
Turn breast-deep in a thrill and tingle,
Then leap and be lifted free,
Poised between heights that shimmer bluely
And depths that the gold sands pave.
This time I’m going in, really and truly.
Wait—just one more wave!
VICTORIA.
RIKKI T.
BALLADE OF VICARIOUS ACTIVITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The murmurs of the marriage mart
Have never made my feelings creep,
For I am wedded to my Art
(Although its products do go cheap) ;
I will not emulate the sheep
That follows where his leader runs,
And into matrimony leap
With any widow blessed with sons.
Nevertheless, my bounteous heart
Occasionally finds its neap ;
The stern reflection makes me start,
“Who has not sown shall never reap.”
The penalty seems somewhat steep;
Still, life on hits of fish and buns
Is sordid. But how could I keep
A widow super-charged with sons?
I feel that, in a bridegroom’s part,
My figure would make angels weep,
And. once aboard the nuptial cart,
Who knows how soon my love might seep
Away, and leave a tindery heap
Ripe for incendiary duns?
Withal I sometimes crave a peep
At married bliss—trot out your sons!
Envoy.
Prince, Fortune’s quaint connubial sweep
May bring me luck that almost stuns;
Think of a stocking, wide and deep,
And two hard-working, guileless sons !
N.S.W.
AHAB MULDOON.


“Cosmo”: A couple of interesting relics
of the past have been unearthed on the Vic-
torian side of Delegate River. The foot of a
traveller struck a projecting piece of iron,
and a little digging disclosed a cattle-brand
and a horse-brand. A few half-rotten posts
indicated that the place was once the site
of a stockyard. A. H. Wright, of Tombong,
is satisfied that the brands, which have the
letters 1.M., were used by Lieut. Joshua
John Moore ; he and Robert Campbell were
the first settlers in what is now the Federal
Capital area. Campbell and Moore took up
a large slice of Southern Monaro for a
cattle-run, and were probably in occupation
before Ben Boyd arrived in those parts.
*1 :
“Pakelia”: Visitors to Maoriland from
other parts of the Empire and the U.S.A.
can’t understand the high status accorded
the Maori race. One reason is that they
really are a fine people, brave and intelligent,
if not particularly industrious. Another is
that the fortunes of so many of the most
affluent and highly-connected families in the
Dominion were founded on an alliance with
a Maori “princess.” Recently the Shivery
Islands were shaken more than usual by the
NO CAUSE FOR ANXIETY.
“Oh, Marie, I — I’ve swallowed a pin.”
“Don’t bother, M’am, I’ve got another.”
news that a Rotorua boardinghouse-keeper
had refused to accommodate a couple of
Maori girls who had reserved rooms by letter,
on the score of their color. They were
eminently respectable, well-educated young
women, and the affront was resented as much
by white folk as by natives. The Dominion,
of Wellington, commenting on the case, said:
“A color line in this country is no part of
public intention or of sentiment.” And
so far as Maoris are concerned that is a
fact.
* * * *
“W.J.”: Ivanlioe House, recently de-
molished by Heidelberg (Vic.) Shire Council,
was a faded memory of the gaiety and
giddiness of the ’fifties and ’sixties. As
Ivanhoe Hotel, it was the first house of
call for coaches on their way to the Woods
Point gold rush. For some years it offered
its patrons various forms of amusement,
legitimate and otherwise, but its reputation
was entirely rehabilitated when one Robert
Young purchased the popular resort, with
its extensive grounds, and transferred it
into a sedate rest home for broken-down
clergymen and missionaries on furlough. In
the end it became a prosaic private boarding-
house, and now it is to be replaced by shire
offices and a town hall. Lord Hopetoun,
when Governor of Vic., frequently rode to
hounds when meets took place at this
delectable spot.
$ $ $ $
“O’Jones” : The most hectic telegram that
ever brightened my office horizon was one
which broke into a flaring chain of abusive
epithets and reached a grand climax of
strength and color with “scarlet scum,”
repeated thrice. The message passed the
counter-clerk, but was put in a strait-jacket
before it reached the operator, and the
sender—a man by the name of Murphy—
communicated with. Back came the bland
reply that the telegram was a list of the
names of songs; but as this was long before
the jazz era, officialdom refused to accept the
explanation or to allow Murphy’s songs to
hum along the wires.
“W.0.C.”: After the Armis-
tice we moved up to the suburbs
of Charleroi, and the o.c. of our
company managed to secure a
large municipal hall at Mar-
chienne-au-Pont for a dinner and
dance. A cobber of mine, Sam,
was one of the doorkeepers, his
orders being to admit one Bel-
gian girl with each Digger.
Walking up to the hall-door
with my lady friend I heard
Sam roaring up a Belgian civ-
ilian who had demanded admit-
tance. The old fellow seemed
much aggrieved and left after
remarking that he would see
the officer in charge. He must
have, for half an hour later I
heard our company officer from
a platform thanking the old Bel-
gian for his courtesy in placing
the hall at the disposal of
the troops. Said Sam after-
wards : “Well, how the devil was
1 to know who he was? If
he’d parleyed Angleterre a man
would have compreed he was the Mayor.”
* * * *
“Kune”: It isn’t safe to leave anything
lying about in Auckland. Two men were
working on an electric-transmission pole ; the
one higher up dropped his hat, but, thinking
Snips No. 2 had intercepted it, went on with
the job in hand, as it was close on knock-off
time. A few minutes later the pair
descended for dinner, and there was nearly
a high-voltage row until Snips No. 1 was
convinced that his mate hadn’t noticed the
vanishing headgear. A search on the pave-
ment revealed nothing, and the two started
out for a near-by hash-house. Passing a
pawnshop the hat-loser glanced in to dis-
cover his lost lid decorating the counter.
Inquiries elicited that the finder had popped
it only five minutes previously for the price
of three ’andles.
* * * *
“8.W.8.”: De Quiros did not name the
land he discovered “Tierra Australia del
Espiritu Santo” (B. 19/l/’2B), but “La
Austrialia del Espiritu Santo.” He called it
“Austrialia,” because Phillip 111., King of
Spain, was head of the House of Austria,
and the rest because he took possession of
the country on the King’s birthday, the feast
of the Holy Spirit. Flinders, though not
the originator, was the first to use the
word “Australia.” Governor Macquarie,
writing in 1817, hopes that it will be
the name given in future to the country
“instead of the very erroneous and mis-
applied New- Holland.” For many years
after Cook’s time De Quiros was looked
upon as the real discoverer of this country.
His enthusiastic description of his find still
fits Gladstone and Kepple Bay better than
Santo of the New Hebrides.
* * * *
“Ahab Muldoon”: There are so many laws
to keep these times that I am constantly
amazed to find myself at large. At 7.30
last Sunday morning I sought the Sydney
restaurant which enjoys my patronage, a
display of energy that enables me to dodge
the rush and journey to the beach or else-
where in leisure and more comfort than is
achievable later on our trams. At 7.50 I
was just finishing a pork chop, when an
enormous sergeant of police blew in and noti-
fied his intention to hale the proprietor of
the establishment before the cadi for opening
before eight o’clock. As an accessory before
and after the fact perhaps I was lucky to
escape a summons, but my present concern
arises from the reflection that my only chance
of indulging in the habit of eating at the
hour I prefer is to hie me to the murmurous
mart to which the Central Station seems to
KITCHEN ANATOMY.
“Chicken croquette, waiter? What part of the chicken is the croquette?”
“The part left over from yesterday, sir.”
have become a sort of annexe, a hash-foundry
which, being conducted by the Government,
has the advantage of an open slather. True,
it is primarily intended for the benefit of
bona fide travellers, who now have mostly to
fight their way in ; but what of that!
❖ ❖ $
“Aileron”: About the most suitable ’plane
in Australia for the trans-Tasman flight is
the Australian-built Widgeon 11., designed
by Wing-Commander Wackett of the
R. She is an amphibian biplane,
engined with a 400-h.p. Siddeley-Jaguar; has
a petrol-storage capacity of close on 200
gallons and a cruising radius on that amount
of fuel of over 2000 miles. Wireless equip-
ment is most elaborate, and she carries an
unsinkable dinghy. With a competent pilot
and a good wireless man she ought to accom-
plish the flight with ease. Of course she
has only one engine, and two would be
better, but there’s a dearth of two-engined
’planes in these parts.
“8.Y.N.”: A one-time cobber of mine
could give “Sam V. V.” (B. 25/l/’2B) a run
for the distance he travelled to enlist. He
went from New Orleans to Montreal to offer
himself, and was rejected. He was rejected
again in Vancouver, Sydney and Brisbane;
finally he found a doctor in Melbourne who
didn’t notice his varicose veins. The last I
saw of him he was in Melbourne waiting
for a boat to take him back to California.
“What are you going to do in the next war?”
I asked him. “Make straight for the Rocky
Mountains and hide there,” was the reply.
* ' * * *
“Britt”: When the American eagle has
anything to crow about he emits a lusty
ccckadoodledoo. Have just been reading
Lindbergh’s book “We —Pilot and Plane,” in-
cluded in which is a selection of press cut-
tings. One journal groups “Joan of Arc,
David and Lindberg” ; another talks of “this
supreme moment in the history of America
and France” ; a third dubs the airman “the
world’s greatest hero”; a fourth assures him
“it is not only two continents you have
united, but the hearts of men everywhere”;
and so on. It’s only fair to Lindbergh,
though, to say that his own account of his
feat is very modest.
* * ❖ *
“Joy-stick”: Except in Australia, where
credit is sometimes given to the remarkable
theoretic work of Laurence Hargreaves,
America is usually credited with the inven-
tion of the aeroplane. The Wrights certainly
made the first successful flight, and Pro-
fessor Langley’s “Aerodrome' was taken out
of the Smithsonian Institute museum some
years ago, fitted with a motor and success-
fully flown, so as to antedate the claim a
little. But if the internal combustion motor
had been invented 50 years before it was,
men could have flown in 1843, w T hen one W.
S. Henson, of Somerset, in the Old Dart,
filed specifications and a model of a mono-
plane that had all the essential features of
the modern aeroplane. His assistant, John
Stringfellow, five years later produced a
model on the same lines that actually flew
under the stimulus of a small steam-engine.
# * * *
“Centurion”: There is a mild interest for
Australians in the news that the fortress-coal-
ing station of Aden, at the mouth of the Red
Sea, has been transferred from the War
Office to the Air Ministry. The red-hot rock
has alwmys had a fascination for tourists,
being the first of the three great fortresses —-
Malta and Gib. are the other two —main-
tained by Britain to guard the track from
Australia and India to the Channel. Besides,
one could and can buy ostrich-feathers at
Aden almost as good if twice as dear as
those offering in Melbourne or Sydney, while
the local whisky ashore has brought salt tears
of reminiscence to the eyes of many an exiled
Westerner from Queensland or far-out
N.S.V . The change-over illustrates Britain’s
new policy with regard to the policing of
desert possessions or protectorates. Iraq is
already guarded and patrolled for the most
part by the Air Service, thus releasing large
bodies of troops. Aden’s landward side is
desert country inhabited by Bedouin tribes,
and here the cheaper and more efficient ’plane
will replace the expensive camel corps, with
benefit to all concerned—except, perhaps,
the Bedouin.
* * « if
“Manalive”: The recent descent of the
Norwegian parachutist Q’viller into a More-
ton Bay fig-tree near Sydney Domain
reminds me of a very similar fate that befel
an airman in Wellington (M.L.) some years
ago. Scotland was the aviator, and I was
one of the reporters detailed to cover the
story. Scotland was billed to take off from
Athletic Park and circle the city. He
ascended safely, but had only been in the
air a few minutes when he struck an aerial
pothole, and his machine crashed among
the trees of Newtown Park. I was amongst
the foremost who reached him; he was
roosting in the branches, half-stunned arid
somewhat cut about the face, with his
wrecked machine spreadeagled above him.
None the less his first remark as he was
assisted down may be ranked as almost clas-
sical. Catching sight of me, with whom he
had some acquaintance, he said: “You
tell the blanky people of Wellington that
I’m the only man in this place that has
climbed down a tree he hasn’t climbed up!”
sji * *
“Amity”: I was in a suburban chemist’s
shop the other night when a small girl
dashed in and demanded a stick of lip-salve.
The youth behind the counter offered several
varieties, but the infant shopper hesitated
over the shade. “Oh, well,” she said finally,
“I s’pose I’d better go home and ask. I
dunno what kind gran’ma uses.”
$ * * $
“Ibn el Issar” : Four Lascar seamen were
intercepted on the Sydney waterfront the
other day with some Australian birds which
they had purchased to take out of the
country. The feathered captives were saved
when the police had explained the law on
the subject. Some surprise was expressed
that among the consignment were four drab
and inoffensive quails. The explanation, of
course, is that the pious Hindus wanted the
birds for fighting and gambling purposes,
the apparently meek quail being one of tl\e
most ferocious and inveterate scrappers in
the whole bird creation. His reputation in
this respect stands high all over Eastern
Asia, and the purchasers of the quartette
were no doubt looking forward to many a
willing go, with side bets accompanying it,
in the monotonous intervals between watches
at sea.
TO-WHIT! TO-WHO!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Two Spinsters, 28, desirous of avoiding unmarried
income-tax, wish to meet two men in similar posi-
tion ; meet and part at Registry Office.- ‘Two Brown
Owls,’ this office.” —S.A. Advertiser.
“To-whit! To-who !” rose on the winter air
When Shakspeare’s owls their nightly calls
were doing.
But here tire birds, a somewhat wistful pair,
Who, willing to be won and wed, yet care
No rap for courtship and no whit for
wooing.
“To-who” (or whom) ? It seems at least a
moot
Point whether either of them gives a hoot.
“To-who ! To-whit!” He said “a merry
note.”
In me it moves a somewhat cheerless
feeling:
Two of the sex that wears the petticoat,
Lest by a spinster tax they should be smote,
For partners matrimonial appealing
(Or meet-and-partners) registrars before,
With just two witnesses, and nothing more.
“To-whit! To-who !” And when the knot is
tied
There’ll be no lips from which to sip the
nectar;
No honeymoon with soul-mates side by side.
Merely a make-believing ’groom and bride
Armored against the single-tax collector,
To wit. the cut that Butler aimed to get
From p.rsons like this shadowy quartette.
“To-who ! To-whit!” Brown owls, a downy
brace,
With similarly thrifty escorts willing
The nearest registry ad hoc to face!
P.S.: No cooing ere the ring’s in place
And, as an offset, afterwards no billing.
“To-who! To-wliit!” Two whoops. Two
women’s wits—
Or witticisms. Which, I wonder, fits?
N.s.w.
T. THE R.
APREB LA GUERRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Apres la guerre fini,
Soldat Anglais parti.”
That is the song the Diggers sang
When their iron-shod heels on the cobbles
rang;
And Mademoiselle, with a wistful smile,
Kept back the tears for a little while
As she bade them “Adieu” —or a long fare-
well ? '
A cross or a “Blighty”—ah! who could tell?
“Mais, c'est la guerre!” she cried.
“Never a happy bride!
Lovers, like butterflies, flit away;
How can a French girl say them nay—
These tall brown fellows, so blithe and
strong,
With a laugh on their lips as they march
along?
A woman of France must do her share! ;
Someone may marry me— apres la guerre.
“Apres la guerre fini,
Soldat Anglais parti.”
And broken threads of sweet Romance
Lie scattered over the fields of France.
Silent the cobbles where once they strode.
With clatter of steel, down the long straight
road.
The joy bells peal, but they sound a knell
To broken-hearted Mademoiselle.
S.A.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.


.BEAM WIRELESS
( -weQreatest c friu.7riph of Science Oier7)istance.
HIGH-SPEED TELEGRAPH SERVICE AT REDUCED RATES TO GREAT
BRITAIN, IRELAND, AND THE CONTINENT OF EUROPE.
RATES TO ALL PARTS OF THE UNITED KINGDOM:—
Week-end Messages sd. per word (minimum 20 words).
Daily Letter Telegrams . . 6d. per word (minimum 20 words.)
Deferred Telegrams I Od. per word (no minimum).
Ordinary Telegrams 1/8 per word (no minimum).
TELEPHONE B 7051
and a Beam messenger will collect your message, or lodge same at any
Post Office throughout Australia,
or at
THE BEAM WIRELESS OFFICE,
47 YORK ST., SYDNEY (top Wynyard St.), one minute G.P.O.
BRANCH OFFICES: 59 LIVERPOOL STREET, AND
ROYAL EXCHANGE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
W'i pal O
Message* VIA BEAM '<
BRITISH EXHIBITION
Opens 23rd February,
11 a.m. to 10 p.m. daily.
1 j-
MELBOURNE
EXHIBITION BUILDINGS
“Mel”: The following slightly ambiguous
announcement, duly signed by someone in
authority, appeared in a shop window in Mel-
i (S.A.) the other morning:—
Any persons found bathing in the Blue Dam will
in future be charged for it.
Gents., 3d.
Under 14 years, 2d.
Under 4 years, free.
Ladies free.
No costumes.
* * * *
“Hayband”: Touching the danger from
bridges for those who steal train rides. Some
years ago at Alexandria (N.S.W.) the chaff-
samplers were clambering about a truck to
make sure that the chaff higher up was as-
good as that in the handy tiers. Suddenly
blood-stains were noticed, and further investi-
gations disclosed a headless body on top of
the load. The unfortunate had slightly
shifted the bags and the sheeting to make a
half-reclining bed for himself. But chaff
is loaded higher than anything else on the
railways (wool comes next), and the first
tunnel had literally ground the man’s head
off. The remains were never identified.
* * % *
“Murkah”: Years ago the advent of the
telephone was thought to be the first nail in
the telegraphist’s coffin. But the need for one
of the alphabets quoted in recent Bulletins
slowed down transmission, and it soon
became clear that the fear was groundless.
Where messages are telephoned 20 an hour
is good work. On telegraph circuits the
department demands at least 40, and on
two-station circuits, 50. Despite “Vera K.”
IN THE GOOD OLD SUMMER-TIME.
(B. 19/l/’2B) my experience has taught me
that ’phoned telegrams are full of errors,
There is no word in the language but what
scores, or even hundreds, sound just like it.
Of the many “alphabets” employed for re-
peating purposes perhaps the least unreliable
is one that is used (unofficially) in the Navy.
Unfortunately it is unprintable.
* * * *
“Windsor”: Some belated post-war honors
are being handed out in France. The credit
of killing the first German has been shared
equally between an n.c.o. and a trooper
of the 11th Dragoons, who, scouting along
with a corporal, in Lorraine, early on the
morning of August 2, 1914, ran into a Fritz
patrol. A German lieutenant conferred on
the French corporal the distinction of being
the first man to be killed in the war, on
which the two Frenchmen, firing simultane-
ously, made the Fritz officer the second one.
A few hours later the two dragoons cap-
tured the first two prisoners of the war,
one being a Fritz footslogger and the other
a Uhlan.
* * * *
“W. J.T.”: James Mudie, author of
“The Felonry of New South W ales” (B.
25/l/’2B), was the recipient of bodily
chastisement on at least one occasion.
Among those whom he reviled was a citizen
named Ivinsela. Kinsela, jun., championed
his dad by horse-whipping Mudie in George-
street. A civil action followed and young
Kinsela was ordered to pay 50 guineas to
the man he had assaulted; the money was
subscribed by his friends (and possibly
Mudie’s enemies) in court. Mudie lost Ins
seat on the bench of magistrates through
his cruelty to convict servants, and there
can have been few regrets when he packed
his traps and left Sydney for good.
* * * *
“Notso”: The collection of savings at the
railway-construction camps in Queensland
(B. 25/l/’2B) has not been abandoned. The
Commonwealth Savings Bank, with which
the Queensland Government Savings Bank
was amalgamated in 1920, is represented at
all railway-construction camps, and brisk
business has been done by its agents on pay-
days, although the volume of such business
has naturally been affected by the recent dis-
continuances of work through shortage of
funds. Gambling has been a bigger menace
to the men’s savings than the hotels, as most
camps are situated miles from the latter.
Incidentally, this class of business is not new
to the Commonwealth Savings Bank, record
figures were established by its representa-
tives during the construction of the 1 ort
Augusta-Ivalgoorlie railway between 1913 and
1917.
* * * *
“1.D.8.”: It was an evil day for the
Queensland gem industry when the Govern-
ment made the marketing of gems a State
monopoly. In 1921 the Government pro-
hibited sales to private buyers; in 1926 it
stopped buying itself. At that time the
Minister for Mines had £50,000 worth of
gems in hand; the sales for 1927 amounted
to £l5 10s. 3d. For seven years before the
State butted in, the miners sold an average
of over £28,000 worth of gems a year. In
the seven years under Government, the
average has been £11,447. Last October the
Government, urged by the miners complaints,
made a £2OOO purchase and then shut up
again. Of course illicit private buying and
selling are going on. Men can get no return
for their labor in any other fasaion.
* * * *
“P.X.”: Heaven only knows why these
long-distance service cars should get so much
consideration from every sort of public
authority. And in the city, especially the
city of Sydney, it’s much the same with the
taxi, especially if it belongs to a well-known
line ; before its flagrant transgressions the
traffic officers seem to be mostly blind. Great
lumbering cars are permitted to break speed
limits, and when anything happens it natur-
ally isn’t the heavyweight catapult that
suffers. Apart from the fact that these cars
are the deadliest business enemies of the
people’s own railways, they are, as driven,
the deadliest enemies of the people’s own
roads; yet they are treated as though_ it
would be a shame to mention such a thing
as the law to them.
* * * *
“Noir Gagne”: The Postal Department
seems to be the latest institution to be
declared “black.” Walking down William-
street, Sydney, the other morning, the post
office being, as usual, shut till every one
was at work, I tried without success to
buy stamps at four successive newsagents’
shops, which carried the usual license plate
over the doors. I got four different tales
in the journey, but no stamps. The last
gentleman informed me explosively that the
blanky P.O. authorities had withdrawn the
commission to agents, and did they think
a bloke was going to work for blanky well
nothing? However this may be, the P.O.
should at least make these gentry dip the
misleading sign that all of them continue
to display.
* * * *
“Drofter”: The desire to be thought a
free spender and to have visible proof of it
accounts for overmuch preference for im-
ported goods (B. 12/l/’2B). Take hats. The
thin elastic cords on some makes of imported
foreign hats have a wonderful attraction for
many customers; the cord proclaims that
the owner is wearing a cady that cost at
least 35 “bob.” For ail that this national
snobbishness was not the only cause of the
setback recently experienced by Bond’s.
That firm adopted an unprogressivc policy
in some ways; 24 per cent. C.O.D. is no good
to the retailer who is without a clerk to
water that type of account and write
cheques. And there are a considerable num-
ber of storekeepers doing quite good business
who haven’t one.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: The Boy Scouts and Girl
Guides are well represented in the Torres
Strait, troops having now been formed at
Badu and Moa Islands. The uniform is
adapted to local conditions, with plenty of
color in it, and the whole lot go barefoot.
At Badu the other day three weddings were
celebrated, and as the parties were Rovers
and Guides, their fellow-members lined up
in great style and formed a guard of honor
outside the church. The movement helps to
fill the gap caused in native life by the pass-
ing of some of the old customs, though on
the eastern side of the Strait the islanders
still cling with keen patriotism to their
national dances.
* * * *
“Q.N.”: Since the line from Melbourne to
Glenhuntly was electrified, seven years ago,
the latter station has gone up from 62nd to
29tli on the list of Vic. stations in order of
business. During the same period the num-
ber of passengers carried has increased from
501,000 to 1,817,000.
* * * *
“W.1.U.”: Silverton Tramway must have
a list of long-service employees unparalleled
in Australia. The line was opened in Janu-
ary, 18S8; E. W. Barwick and J. 11. Bur-
nard, with 40 years’ service each, are the
oldest inhabitants, so to speak. Of others
one man has put in 39 years with the com-
pany, five have 37 years to their credit,
two 36, and one 35. There are nine others
in the thirties. Father and son employees
are common, and there are instances of three
generations drawing pay from the co.
* * * *
“Veronal”: A huge conglomerate boulder
isolated on a small plain not far from the
Snowy River, Southern Monaro (N.S.W.),
is known as “Clarke’s Rock.” While gather-
ing material for his “Researches in the
Southern Goldfields of N. S. Wales,” now a
rare book, the late Rev. W. B. Clarke spent
many hours in overhauling this Brobding-
nagian pebble. Clarke put his prophetic finger
on several places in which he declared gold
would eventually be discovered. It has since
been found there, but not in payable quanti-
ties.


PROSPECTUS of
BOYD EDKINS
LIMITED
General Motors Metropolitan Distributors for
BUICK, OLDSMOBILE and VAUXHALL Cars
Increase Capital Issue of 63,650 Shares as follows:
26,670 10 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each ----- £26,670
36,980 Ordinary Shares of £1 each - 36,980
£63,650
Present f 23,330 10 per cent. Cumulative Shares of £1 each ------ 23,330
Issued 63,020 Ordinary Shares of £1 each 63,020
Capital ( 86,350
Bringing the total Capital up to the Authorised Capital of ----- - £150,000
DIRECTORS •
BOYD EDKINS (Chairman), Phillip House, 109-119 Phillip Street, Sydney.
A. C. EBSWORTH, Solicitor, Union House, George Street, Sydney.
E. L. SPEARE, Brick Manufacturer, Tempe Brick Works, Tempe.
J. J. LEAHY, Grazier, Cathcart House, 1 1c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
D. V. CLIFTON, of Cliftons, Ltd., General Motors Distributor, Barraba, Tamworth, Bingara,
Warialda, Inverell, Gunnedah ard Boggabri.
SECRETARY:
J. R. MACKELLAR, Philip House, 109-1 19 Phillip Street, Sydney.
AUDITOR:
R. C. BREWSTER, sth Floor, Eastern Telegraph Buildings, Spring Street, Sydney.
BANKERS:
THE COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA, Head Office, Sydney.
SOLICITORS •
EBSWORTH AND EBSWORTH, 10th Floor, Union House, George Street, Sydney.
BROKERS IN CONJUNCTION:
P. T. CAHILL, Stock and Share Broker, Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney "I
L. A. MINNETT, Stock and Share Broker, 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Members of the Sydney-
Stock Exchange.
The Directors of Boyd Edkins, Ltd., have pleasure in announcing that a
satisfactory agreement with GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY., LTD.,
and McINTOSH and SONS, LIMITED, w T as made on October 26 last, whereby
the “BUICIv” Metropolitan Franchise for the County of Cumberland (over a
million population), together with the stock-in-trade, plant, furniture and equip-
ment of Mclntosh and Sons, Limited, was transferred to this Company on the
Ist December last.
In addition to the above, satisfactory leases at reasonable rentals have been
arranged with Mclntosh & Sons, Limited, for iilieir premises at Phillip Street (three
floors) and Elizabeth Street (four floors), together with their Surry Hills Service
Station.
The cost of the stock, plant, furniture and equipment taken over was £29,544,
which has been paid.
No Payment for Goodwill or sales organisation was made, but an over-riding
Commission on all sales made by this Company of “Buick” Products will be paid
to Mclntosh & Sons, Limited, for a period of two years. Therefore this Company
undertakes no risk in acquiring such a lucrative agency on such; favorable terms.
It is hardly necessary to point out tilie advantages that will accrue to this
Company by the addition of Buick Agency, which is regarded! as the world’s premier
motor agency. The Company now controls the sale of: —
1
1 BUICK PRODUCTS.
2 OLDSMOBILE- PRODUCTS.
3 AND THE IMPROVED SIX-CYLINDER
20-H.P. BRITISH VAUXHALL PRODUCT, f
MANUFACTURED BY VAUXHALL
MOTORS. LTIX, LUTON, ENGLAND.
All products of GENERAL
MOTORS.
THE NEW VAUXHALL SIX IS SOLD AT POPULAR PRICES (TOURER
£565, 4-DOOR SEDAN £640), WITH THE LATEST IMPROVEMENTS
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR AUSTRALIAN REQUIREMENTS; MORE-
OVER, THESE THREE LINES WILL MEET THE REQUIREMENTS OF A
LARGE NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS, AND THEY PROVIDE A COMBINA-
TION OF LINES UNDER ONE CONTROL SECOND TO NONE IN
AUSTRALIA.
Hugo sums have been spent on the Vauxliall factory by General Motors on
extensions, new equipment and re-modelling of production methods to produce a
car of English finish and workmanship, with American performance, Which has
long been awaited by the Australian public. It is expected that the Vauxhall will
be the most valuable franchise to this Company when further developments in
view have materialised.
The control of these agencies will further improve the earning capacity of
the Company by offering the sub-dealers a proposition that automatically
strengthens sales organisation.
It may be stated that an advantageous agreement has also been finalised with
General Motors ( Australia) Pty., Ltd., which is estimated to yield £16,000.
In order to finance the increased business, further capital is required, and the
Directors have decided to issue the balance of the unallotted shares consisting of:
26,670 10 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each,
and 36,980 Ordinary Shares of £1 each.
63,650 Shares in all.
As the capital of these shares will be early required, the basis on which they
are to be issued is as follows:
5/- on application,
5/- on allotment,
5/- one month after allotment,
5/- two months after allotment.
These shares are now offered for public subscription on the above terms, but
the acceptance or otherwise of applications will be at the absolute discretion of
the Directors.
In addition to acquiring the Buick Agency, there is the advantageous position
and facilities that will accrue by the acquisition of such central, commodious
end up-to-date premises in Phillip Street and Elizabeth Street and Surry Hills.
These premises will provide sufficient accommodation for the Company’s opera-
tions, and the old premises can be disposed of at satisfactory prices.
THE WONDERFUL SELLING CAPACITY OF THE BUICK PRODUCTS
IS SHOWN BY THE PROFITS MADE BY McINTOSH & SONS. LIMITED,
DURING THE LAST EIGHT YEARS. FROM BUICK ALONE, WHICH
TOTAL £400,409, OR AN AVERAGE OF £61301 PER ANNUM. (N.B.—
THIS INFORMATION IS DISCLOSED WITH TPIE CONSENT AND
APPROVAL OF McINTOSH & SONS, LIMITED.)
While some of these profits were made during the period when Mclntosh &
Sons, Limited, were unrestricted distributors throughout New South Wales,
and. although during 1926-27 the Franchise was confined to the Metro-
politan. area, the profit earned during the last twelve months of their
Metropolitan Franchise is exceedingly satisfactory, and the Directors are of opinion
that sales can and will be increased in the immediate future. The combined turn-
over of all lines should equal (if not exceed) that of Mclntosh & Sons, Ltd.,
previously for the whole State.
M ith the increased turnover which will be obtained by the addition of the
Buick sales and the new Vauxliall, the combined expenses of the three lines
under one control will be 'less than two separate organisations, and overhead
charges should be relatively less than those of two previous separate organisa-
tions, and the net profit correspondingly increased. Under The General Motors
Met) opolitan Franchise a distributor’s stock can be turned over twelve times a
year.
The ' Nil jay” Lubricator and “Jay” Lubricant, for which this Company is
sole distributor in Australia and New Zealand, are showing excellent results, and
sales of them will improve the profits for the ensuing period. A million “Jays"
were sold in U.S.A. in the first six months. “Jay" Lubricant is imported, but the
Company is making the instruments, thus effecting a large saving. The importance
of upper cylinder and valve lubrication is becoming rapidly rcognised.
• the last balancing period to June 30, 1927, showed a loss (caused
by insufficient cars being available) an arrangement has been made with General
u f ira^ a ) I'ty-, Ltd., for special compensation on the sales of the
Oldsmcbile and “Vmxhall” and “Buick” cars in 1927 and 1928, which should
approximately replace this. The result of the ordinary trading under the new
arrangement should show sufficient profit to pay satisfactory dividends to share-
holders.
In view of the foregoing, and the improved position of the Company, the
lrectors offer the shares above referred to with the prospect of participating in
the satisfactory results anticipated to accrue under the new arrangements. The
improved 1928 Buick, with fifty-one improvements, is a wonderful seller.
Improvements are considerable in lowness, comfort and appearance, equipment
°. n .J W y. e \ ° U l>U ’ w hich _ m<, kes the 1928 “Buick” better value than ever. And
Austraha has eagerly awaited a car of the 20-h.p. 6-cylinder Vauxliall type from a
British factory at the right price it is here!
comnorS a l Sm l, d ° f tb,e three main lines Gaining an advantageous
organisation P t P ° Wer ° f the wonderful General Motors world-wide
It is the intention to have the shares listed on the Stock Exchange at an early
opportunity after the capital is fully subscribed °
Any further information desired will be gladly furnished to intending
Brokers!' 8 °" by the Chairman - the Secretary, the Auditor, or the
Phillip House.
109-119 Phillip Street, Sydnev.
January 30, 1928.
For the Board of Directors,
BOYD ED KINS,
Chairman of Directors.
Prospectus and Application Forms will be forwarded on application to brokers


THE CAPITALIST, THE SOCIALIST AND THE SPARE TYRE.


ŗ
,r$
tfiucinVA'
• I II
9
ft
rx
L_
nr
diid why /
C 5
Uv
ENGINE MOUNTING
_ J
RADIATOR MOUNTING
dJ.
3a
UW
cm
z
m
H K I N
Wy-
L-HAMILTOn,
BUILT-UP at every point to resist
tremendous overstrain.
Fitted with an engine geared to make
utmost efficient use of its huge reserve
power.
And so designed withal that it is
responsive—easy to handle, light-run-
ning and speedy.
Those are the features which make
of the heavy-duty Brockway a truck in-
domitable—capable of unequalled trans-
port feats.
Study its construction. Compare it
part by part and price for price with any
other truck of similar capacity.
Note, for one thing, the heavy frame
—actually doubled in the larger models
and reinforced in all with heavily-riveted
V-pieces. (Illustration No. 1.)
Then, the radius rods which take the
drive—fitted to back axle with hinged
connection, swivelled to allow lateral as
well as up-and-down play. Fore ends
are universally fastened to frame. The
springs, too, are swivelled on rods
which pass right across the chassis. (Illus-
tration No. 2.)
Engine and radiator are attached to
chassis with special spring bolts—elimi-
nating risk of damage from heavy jar-
ring. Prevents radiator leaks. (Illustra-
tion No. 3.)
The big Brockway coaches have re-
inforced rear springing—the extra leaves
coming into play when a certain load is
reached. (See No. 4.)
The Brockway rear axle is of full-
floating type—with a drive shaft that
takes no weight. A broken axle shaft is
replaced in a matter of minutes, without
letting down the load. (Illustration No.
5.)
Timken tapered roller bearings fitted
throughout—final drive by Timken
worm gear.
There’s not one motor-car part in
the Brockway. And, with its high-rev-
ving, overhead-valve engine for the
speed models and slow-revving Red Seal
motor for heavy duty—both types
equipped with cast-iron pistons, full
pressure-feed lubrication through drilled
crankshafts—its 9-speed gear-box, two-
piece propeller shaft and Spicer Univer-
sal, it embodies every important im-
provement accepted by British and
American engineers. The Super-Coaches
are fitted, as well, with Westinghouse air-
brakes.
Arrange for a thorough inspection
and any demonstration at the nearest
address below. There are Brockways for
all needs, from 25cwt. to 7 tons capacity
—for passengers or freight.
n
RIGHT
WAY
THE
MOTOR
TRUCKS
AGENTS
N.S.W Brockway Motors, Ltd., 56-58
Parramatta Road, Camperdown.
VICTORIA.... Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty.,
Ltd., 628 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
and Creswick Road, Ballarat.
S. AUSTRALIA: Campbell & Worthington, Ltd.,
221-23 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND: Brockway Motors (Queensland),
Ltd., Ann Street, Valley, Brisbane.
W.AUSTRALIA Associated Motors, Ltd., 92 Stirling
Street, Perth.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Denton & Co., Newmarket,
Auckland.
HAWKES BAY, N.Z. Anderson & Hansen, Ltd.,
Dickens Street, Napier.
C\
F.RL.S.
The Brockway 'Bus mentioned in the
paragraph alongside.
A Feat of Strength
“Butting” an Overloaded ’Bus Uphill!
It happened on Rozelle hill—just past the White Bay Power Station, Sydney.
A ’bus, on the homeward run with an overload of passengers at the peak
period of business traffic, broke down at the bottom of the grade the worst on
its outward trip. An old Brockway ’bus, so crammed to the doors that it had a
heavy list, arrived soon after. The drivers decided that it should push the disabled
’bus to the top of the hill.
No passengers were moved from either vehicle. The back fender of the
just fitted against the stout front buffer of the Brockway, which made a smooth
start in its lowest gear. Negotiating two fairly awkward curves, it pushed the other
'bus steadily up to the Rozelle Tram Junction.
This Brockway has covered well over 50,000 miles of continuous daily service,
on a route which involves harder-than-ordinary usage. F.P.L.


%
IS
The First Flight
across New Quinea
In a “D.H.9” and a “Bristol Fighter,” Messrs. Parer and Pratt successfully flew
across New Guinea. For this historic flight the two distinguished Australian
airmen used TRIPLE SHELL OIL and SHELL SPIRIT.
By land, air, and sea, the key to motoring
efficiency is the exclusive use of
MOTOR
OILS
ŕ
MOTOR
SPIRIT
6415
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
No wanderer in Bohemia ever enjoyed a
greater personal affection than the brilliant
David McKee Wright, upon whom Death
rung down the curtain at his Glenbrook
(N.5.W..) home on Sunday. Dave was every-
body's friend; to his talents he added the
kindliest of hearts and a generosity that was
princely. That was a handicap to his entry
into the circle of the great writers of poetry
of his generation; but some of his work
soared very high. Son of an Irish Protestant
minister, Wright went to M.L. 40 years
ago at the age of 20 and roughed it in the
Otago back-country before becoming a Con-
gregational minister., He was an eloquent
preacher, but he did not remain long in the
church. His “Aorangi and Other Verses”
was published in 1806, the first of five books,
the latest of which, “An Irish Heart”
(1919), marks the period when Irish tradition
had become almost an obsession with him.
Wright moved to Australia in 1009, and a
few years later joined The Bulletin, to
which, even when he was not on the staff,
he was a prolific and valued contributor. He
found time in a rush of other work to win
the Rupert Brooke Memorial Prize for verses
on Gallipoli—verses which, in judgment of
many critics, will live.
Judge SCHOLES (N.S.W.), who will pre-
sently retire from the District Court
Bench, to which he was appointed in
1908.
Dr. Cockburn, wlio presided the other day
at the annual meeting of the Australasian
Chamber of Commerce in London, must
begin to feel like somebody out of the
Middle Ages. It is just on 40 years since
he was Premier of South Aus., and far over
40 years since he was a S. Aus Minister.
There isn’t another man left who was in ms
Ministry of 1889-90. Fred Holder, his 'trea-
surer, was the first Speaker of the House of
Reps., and died at his work. Later Cock-
burn joined Kingston, and helped to keep a
Government in office for what seemed like
eternity in those days: actually it was only
six years. And then he went to London as
Agent-General, stayed behind to pick up
board fees, aud never returned.
A record that will take some beating is
that of T. A. Tabart, of the Department
of Agriculture, Hobart. The old chap lias
started on his ninety-first lap, and is still
chief rabbit inspector in the Speck, a job
that often involves long trips per horseback
through the baekblocks. In his spare time
he keeps old age at bay with physical jerks
and a punching ball. When a youngster of 60
or so in Queensland Tommy got smashed up
in an accident, and he still wears on his
watch-chain a bit of a rib which he avers the
doctor took away from his anatomy without
the aid of anaesthetic. T. A. Tabart, secre-
tary of the' V.R.C., is his son.
Nothing further, has been heard of the
lately-rumored fusion or understanding of
some sort between Tooths and Tooheys, the
two big Sydney brewers. But now Tooheys
and Schweppes have come to an arrangement
under which Schweppes are to supply the
Toohey pubs with soft-drinks, Tooheys vacat-
ing their soft-tack factory to give Schweppes
more room. The first Schweppes mineral
waters sold in Australia were imported in
casks in 1852 by Edmund M. Paul, whose
son, another Edmund, is now general
manager of the business. This is the forceful
person who has been pulling the A.P.A.
insurance concern out of the bog ; and Wil-
liam Tilley lately joined the board and
became deputy-chairman. And William Til-
ley happens to be also a director of Tooheys.
And that is how one thing leads to another,
“P.X.” : There was very little starch about
Earl Haig’s manner. The only time I ever
saw him he had his arm through Frank
Anstey’s, and was trying to persuade the
Australian that the A.I.F. ought to come
into line with the British and introduce the
death penalty for certain military offences —
cowardice in the face of the enemy in par-
ticular. Anstey told the Coinmander-in-
Chief (he looked the dashing cavalry officer
he was) that no Australian Government
which proposed such a thing would last
48 hours; and Dr. J. W. Springthorpe, of
Melbourne, stood behind Anstey and declared
that it wouldn’t deserve to. Yet when the
job was done nobody fought harder for the
soldier than Haig did, and especially the
soldier at a loose end.
Everard Gregory Grace, who has died at
his homestead at Canberra at 52, had a sun-
tanned face that proclaimed him a sticker.
When the Commonwealth Government took
over the Territory it found Grace working
the station he had inherited from his father.
Other landowners cleared out, but Grace
stuck to it, renting from the Commission the
property he had owned. He had always
been prominent in leading movements in the
district, and when the Commission moved
in he became first member of its land board.
The war gave him another opportunity to
display liis tenacity. Rejected as medically
unfit, he worried the authorities until they
allowed him to come into the argument as a
cook; and for three long years he peeled
potatoes at the Kaiser.
Dean Crotty, who goes to Bathurst as
bishop following Bishop Long’s departure
from the City of the Plains to wear the
gaiters in Newcastle, was a Digger parson.
A Melbourne Grammar product, lie was head-
master of Melbourne AH Saints’ Grammar
School before taking a regular pulpit.
Australia gets a new titled citizen in
Charles Henry Howard, Earl of Suffolk and
Berkshire, who has bought the North Tool-
boora squattage near Warwick (Q.). He
intends to live on the estate—at least part
of his time, for he is not likely to neglect
his 10,000 English acres and a mansion
which includes a famous picture-gallery.
The titles go back to early Stuart times,
but a lot of the family affluence came with
the marriage of the father of the present
22-year-old peer to the daughter of the
wealthy Levi Z. Leiter, who made his fortune
in Chicago.
Monsignor Barrv Doyle, who lately looked
in on the Speck, and who is a cousin of
spiritistic Arthur, is probably the most war
decorated chaplain on earth. The honors
that came his way during the Great War
represent many nationalities, and his church
decorations also are numerous and varied.
Hailing from the Ould Sod, he joined up in
England, was wounded several times and
once figured as dead. He is a first-class
lecturer and a pretty fair interpreter of
William Shakspearo.
Found dying in his bathroom, with a cut
wrist and the gas turned on, Donald Kerr,
a brilliant young lawyer of xVdelaide. The
relatives thought it was an accident with
razor and tap, and no inquest was held.
Certainly there seemed to be no reason for
any other cause. Kerr won the M.M. in
France, and yet was Doctor of Laws at 27.
With a fine knowledge of legal subtleties, he
wrote a “Laws of the Australian Constitu-
tion” that is of high repute, and on the
morning of the tragedy he was due to give
evidence before the Constitution Commission.
Only 35 at the end.
A link with the old Australia snapped
when Charles Collinson Rawson died in
England the other day at 87, probably a re-
sult of residing for many years in the ener-
vating North Queensland tropics, where,
with two brothers, he raised cattle outside
Mackay. He returned to England in 1886,
F. E. FORREST,
M.L.A. for Caul-
field (Vic.).
and organised many
of the annual
Queensland dinners
that used to be a
feature of Austra-
lian life in London.
A cousin of the
bluff old seadog
Rawson. who was
Governor of N.S.W.,
he was also related
to the present Gov-
ernor. Mrs. Lance
Rawson, a well-
known Bulletin
contributor, was the
wife of the youngest
brother of the trio,
Lancelot Bernard.
Passed on at 50, Conway Inglos Clark,
architect son of the Judge who was the
Speck’s most radical lawyer and politician
of the ’nineties. He was Hobart’s city archi-
tect. One of his brothers is Usher of the
Black Rod in the islet’s Leg. Council.
Martin McGregor may not be challenged
for Gippsland in Vic. Upper House. The
Cocky party sent the fiery cross out for a
candidate, but no eligible has been inclined
to chance a go, and after the recent experi-
ence of Buckley in Gippsland South Labor
will not be keen. McGregor’s personal popu-
larity is a tremendous obstacle to other
aspirants, and he is more Radical than Tory.
He was in the State service years ago, and
forfeits his pension rights while in the
House. Toutclier, M.L.A., has also deprived
himself of a small annual pension—earned as
a Customs Department officer before Federa-
tion-through capturing a seat and holding
it for more than 30 years.
Little George Taylor, who died the other
day, besides being something of an artist
and an author was probably the first man
in Sydney to use the waste from sugar-mills.
Twenty-five years ago he formed a little co.
to make what he called “bagasse,” and for
some time it produced building-sheets and
ornamental ceilings. But he was a little
ahead of time, and the industry petered out.
Dead in Adelaide at 82, Louis Lleysen,
produce merchant and father of painter
Hans. Born in Hamburg, he was a good
Australian of 45 years’ standing. He was
one of the first to export Australian butter
for the London market.
March 6 brings up the 100 years since
the birth of John Douglas, sturdy old pioneer
and empire-builder. He was Premier of
Queensland for two years, 1877-79, and spent
from 1885 to 1904 as Government Resident
at T. 1., with a break of a couple of years’
special commissionering in New Guinea.
The memory of his wise administration
among both white and colored in Torres
Strait will not soon die out. He passed on
in 1904, and to his memory the Quetta
Memorial Cathedral has a side chapel, at the
east end of which is a fine window depicting
St. John on the Isle of Patmos —the features,
however, are those of John Douglas, taken
from a photo.
From the estate of Randall Alcock (James
Service and Co.) Vic. Treasurer Hogan has
collected £76,314 in probate duty. Page wiil
also take a large slice • from the £BOO,OOO
that Alcock left.
Captain Orgel, now in charge of the Ger-
man steamer Essen, has made more than a
hundred trips to Australia. His first voyage
was in 1893 in the Barmen, and, except
during the Big Scrap, he has been regularly
guiding German passenger boats between the
two countries since then.
The death of Alf Bailes, librarian at the
Melbourne Geological Museum and chairman
of the Coal Mines Accident Relief Fund,
snaps a link with Vic.’s political past. It
was not so much what Alf did in politics for
21 years (’B6 to ’O7) as the company he
kept. He was in the Assembly when the
big coalition headed by Duncan Gillies and
Alfred Deakin was in power, and lie was
honorary Whip to the combination which dis-
placed William Sliiels and put in J. B.
Patterson. Compelled to consider others
,T.B. had to forget Bailes for the Ministry,
but offered him the Whipship, which he
spurned. He did not get another chance,
but he was a thorn in the side of some
Ministries. He had an inquiry made by
select committee into tributing in goldmines,
kept breweries from being too tyrannical by
threatening legislation against tied houses,
forced Governments to foster development of
auriferous areas, and kept Bendigo in the
public eye. The most drastic bill be, intro-
duced was one to amend the Crimes Act,
but the Assembly affected to be shocked ac
the proposal to call in the aid of the surgeon
to punish bad men, and side-tracked the bill.
Lt.-General Edwin Alderson, who had
many Australian and Canadian troops under
his command in the South African scrap,
has gone West in England. He was one of
the fathers of the mounted infantry arm of
the Imperial service, and served With this
branch in the first Boer war, and later in
the abortive attempt to relieve Khartoum.
In South Africa the second time he was par-
ticularly attracted to the Australian M. 1.,
and was a good friend to many of them. A
mighty hunting man—he kept a pack of
hounds at Pretoria to hunt jackals when he
was commandant there in 1902 —he wrote
several readable books on his favorite sport.
In the recent war he commanded the first
Canadian Division from the beginning of
1915. He was 68 at the finish, almost the
same age as his old friend Douglas Haig,
who was not long in following him.
Ben Lear, who recently celebrated his
golden wedding at Portland (Vic.), holds a
medal presented to him as an Australian sea-
man by the President of U.S.A. The occa-
sion was in 1880, when Ben performed heroic
deeds in rescuing the crew of the American
boat Eric the Red, which had crashed on
the Otway reefs. The Victorian Government
came to light with a purse of sovereigns for
the same heroism.
When Vic. Premier Ned Hogan returned
to Melbourne recently from Lome, where
Frank Beaurepaire had him in hand for a
while, he confided that this was the first time
he had been in the sea. Most of his early
swimming was done in creeks and mine-dams.
In exile in Mentone owing to his complicity
in agitation against the present Spanish
Government, death came to Blasco Ibanez
and closed the life chapter of another of the
great writers of this age. Ibanez won fame
enough from his books in his own country
to be a power there, but reaped no real
financial results until they were translated
into other languages and put on the pictures.
He was 61 years old.
J. A. PERKINS, M.H.R. for Monaro,
(N.S.W.), whose controversy with a
pressman was a piquant feature of the
first session at Canberra.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Thomas Senior Town-
end, for 45 years London manager of the
Argus, has left £7865. He had a pleasant
home in Westgate, Kent, and though verging
on four score came up to town every day.
He used to send pheasants every Christmas
to journalist friends in Melbourne.
HAIG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“He bore through four long years the heaviest
burden ever carried by a British soldier in the history
of the Empire.” —Army order.
Not his, mayhap, in life the blinding blaze
Of fame, or dead the deathless light that
shone
And shines on conquerors of other days,
War gods of yeai-3 agone.
Not his to turn the tide and break the foe
With lightning strokes —scant room for
epic feat,
For swift decisive stroke or shattering blow
When millions millions meet.
They led to victory through blood and fire
When heights were scaled and squares
were charged with cheers;
He triumphed through the mud and blood
and mire
Of the slow crawling years.
They won their battles and their bays they
wore.
Their deeds survive in many a lustrous
name;
But who shall rival Haig in what he bore
And —what he overcame ?
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


IT PAYS TO INVEST IN
§p
Pioneer
fm.
1
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE 1858.
This famous power transmitter has maintained the leading position for nearly 70 years
Made and Guaranteed by
. C. LUDOWICI CSL SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Fry, Ltd.,
Edward Street, Brisbane:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell and
Sons. Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Etd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar. Richards £
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
£ Co’. Christchurcb.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadfields’ Manganese Steel W T earine Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and l Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Foundries i Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch ( 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office J T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Victoria Nyanza Sugar Co., Ltd.
(Vic.), which owns sugar plantations and
has a mill and refinery at Miwani, Kenya
Colony, East Africa. In the following table,
preliminary exes., £6185, are not treated as
an asset: —
To Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 1,099 Nil 1,699 4,486
Reserves.
1924.. 37,179 12* p.c. = 32,500 4,679 193
1925.. 10,408 Nil 10,408 10,601
1926.. 43,699 17* p.c. = 52,500 1,800
April,
1927*. 75,158 20 ~ „ 60,000 15,158 16,958
*l3 months.
The progress of this East African sugar-
growing and refining concern has attracted
attention of late. The co. was promoted by
George R. Mayers, a successful Queensland
planter, who, convinced of the possibilities of
sugar-growing in Kenya Colony, bought a
9!) years’ lease of 6716 acres there for
£22,000. That was in May, 1920. He also
bought the confiscated plant of the German
sugar-factory at Pangani, Tanganyika, and
picked up a lot of light railway material
cheap from the East African military autho-
rities. Then he invited the Australian pub-
lic to come into the venture, backing his
claims with £40,000 in cash for shares. He
got 100,000 fully-paids for the assets and the
public put up £160,000. Most of the first
two years were taken up with clearing,
planting and mill and other constructional
work. Manufacture was commenced in the
second year, from which point the table
takes up the story. In 1925 a fire on the
property of outside suppliers and adverse
weather conditions affected crushings, and
the result is reflected in profits for that year.
During the following year deliveries were,
for the first time, equal to the capacity of
the mill, and profits responded. Here are
crushing and refining totals since 1925:
1925. 1926. 1927.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
Cane grown .. .. 14,774 34,199 55,713
Cane purchased . . .. 5,299 18,198 40,737
Sugar (white) produced . . 1,385 4,046 8,018
Last year the capacity of the mill was in-
creased and an extra 44,053 tons, making a
total of 96,450 tons, were crushed. The
lot produced 8018 tons of whites, or 3972
tons more than in the previous year, and the
net profit sprang £31,459, reaching £75,158,
equal to 25 p.c. on capital for the 13 months
covered by the accounts. That was after
£21,420 had been put by for depreciation,
making the total so provided since the incep-
tion of the co. £58,871. Shareholders were
handed a juicy 20 p.c., and the £15,158 that
remained lifted visible reserves to £16,958.
The co., by the w r ay, charges up against
manufacture 10s. per ton on all its own cane
harvested. This called for £27,856 last year,
but actual cultivation and haiwesting costs
amounted to only £15,857, the balance
(£11,999) reducing plantation development
account to £45,430. The figure was £51,135
in 1926, so apparently £6294 was spent
under that head during the year. If the
value of the property has been increased by
the amount spent on development to date,
then the sums written off (£19,699 to April,
1927) against that expenditure represent an
inner reserve. At the 1925 annual meeting
it was stated that the co.’s land (9300 acres)
cost £3 per acre, "while similar adjoining
property was then selling, unimproved, at £6
to £lO per acre, so there appears to be a nice
little ncst-ogg there at any rate. Incidentally,
the co. has the right to convert its holdings
into a 999-years’ lease after £50,000 has
been spent on improvements, and that point
has long been past.
Balance-sheet movements were in the right
direction: —
1925 1926. 1927.
Paid capital .. .. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liability on land .. 3,404 2,553 1,706
Other liabilities .. 34,982 55,011 21,865
Mill 165,475 159,729 156,981
Land, buildings, etc. . . 45,902 45,571 46,049
Rolling stock, tramways,
plant, etc 63,347 62,253 72,292
Plantation development 52,434 51,135 45,430
Sugar stocks . . .. 5,975 16,896 37,505
Book debts . . . . 2,856 7,658 6,967
Cash, etc. . . . . 12,997 38,622 9,806
The reduction of liabilities by nearly
£34,000 almost wholly represents the
repayment of moneys advanced by the man-
aging director on current account. That and
the larger sugar stocks, which were all sold
by July, improved the liquid position. There
was £54,278 in liquids to meet £23,571 of
liabilities, and the liquid surplus (£30,707)
was £25,095 stronger. The final divs., how-
ever, total £37,500, and after allowing for
that each £1 share was represented by
approximately 10s. sd. in the mill; 4s. lOd.
in rolling stock, plant, etc.; 3s. Id. in land
and sundry buildings; and 3s. in the develop-
ment account.
There is the possibility that shareholders
will be asked to assist in financing a coffee-
planting venture in Kenya Colony, and other
issues are also talked about. The market,
impressed by the co.’s prospects and the
fact that an interim 15 p.c. has been declared
for the current term, pays 545. Gd. for the
scrip. At that price the immediate return
is 7.3 p.e. on a 20 p.q. div. basis.
* $ H* *
Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne) :
WoYks Writlc.
Divi- Charged Off
deeds, to lie- Stocks, Re-
Proftts. (13 p.c.) venue. etc. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec., ’19.. 49,143 65,000 18,883 3,870 662,827
June, ’20.. 63,760 65,000 22,084 798 638,705
Dec., ’20.. 39,363 65,000 Nil Nil 613,068
June, ’21.. 63,495 65.000 Nil Nil 611,563
Dec, ’21.. 109,160 65,000 21,276 Nil 634,447
June, '22.. 138,202 65,000 49,293 Nil 658,356
Dec., ’22.. 139,520 65,000 28,800 Nil 704,076
Refund of income tax .. £23,545 727,621
June, '23.. 58,670 65,000 29,070 8264 683,966
Dec., ’23. . 103,000 65,000 13,789 1262 1
Cost of Govt. inquiry, £7662 ) ’“
June, ’24.. 125,385 65,000 46,871 5,533 704,234
Premiums on shares ... £43,528 747,762
15 p.c.
Dec., ’24.. 128,677 82,197 41,743 4,378 748,121
June, ’25.. 105,182 82,500 18,628 5,270 746,905
Dec., ’25.. 141,568 82,000 50,603 4,194 751,176
June, ’26.. 113,457 82,500 39,094 3,880 739,159
Dec., ’26.. 134,805 82,500 33,500 11,364 746,600
Premiums on shares, £68,040 . . 814,649
June, ’27.. 105,522 88,125 29,782 .Nil 802,254
Premiums on shares, £123,423 .. 925,677
Dec., ’27.. 105,843 97,500 28,374 4,586 901,060
The co. celebrates its jubilee by writing the
year’s net profit at £211,305, or £36,897
less than in the previous year. The div.
called for £185,625, and that left an inade-
quate £25,740 out of which to provide for
depreciation on plant, etc., valued in the
books at £3,750,466. Had profits allowed,
says the chairman, the co. would have been
entitled under its Act to have transferred to
reserves £90,816, being 3 p.e. of the total
share and debenture capital (£3,027,200).
Apart from the £191,463 of share premiums
received during the year reserves were actu-
ally bitten into for £37,002. That was after
charging revenue with £62,742 spent on
works, etc., which is equivalent to writing
down the fixed assets by that amount, so
really reserves had to be drawn upon to pay
the 15 p.c. div. Costs were the trouble, as
this comparison shows :
1925. 1926. 1927.
Gas sales .. .. £1,281,311 £1,331,453 £1,382,734
Residual sales, etc. 291,503 337,874 321,136
Total income . . £1,572,814 £1,669,327 £1,703,870
Manufacturing and
distributing exes. 1,051,544 3,138,194 1,209,999
Other charges .. 274,521 282,872 288,613
The increase in net revenue was £34,543,
but as against that manufacturing and dis-
tribution charges, which ate up 14s. 2d.
of every £1 of income compared with 13s. 7d.
in the previous year, were £71,805 heavier.
Increases in the coal and wages bills have
been chiefly responsible for pushing up costs.
To the co. the price of large coal, excluding
handling charges, rose from 335. 9d. to
38s. 4d. per ton during the three years to
June 30 last, the increase being equal to
nearly sd. per 1000 c.f. of gas sold. Over the
same period 2s. 6d. per week was added to
wages. Since then hours have been reduced
from 48 to 44 —the extra cost is estimated
at £30,000 to £40,000 p.a.-—wages have gone
up another 2s. 6d. per week and 74d. per
ton lias been tacked on to coal freights.
Between the lot the cost of manufacture has
increased 9d. per 1000 c.f. since Aug., 1924.
From that date the price charged to the con-
sumer has been steady at 6s. Bd. per thou-
sand, but to ease the strain an extra sd.
was added to the retail price on Dec. 12.
That was too late to benefit the last accounts
A distinctly disappointing feature is the
shrinkage (£16,738) in the return from resi-
duals (£321,136). In order to compete with
imported bitumen in road-making the co. had
to cut the price of tar. The result was a
precipitous drop of £38.368 in the revenue
from this source (£70,552). Because of
that it is doubtful whether the recent in-
crease in the price of gas will be sufficient.
What the Government needs to realise is
that the revenue from by-products benefits
the consumer as well as the co. The board
recently spent a lot of money on plant for
improving the output of by-products. To
meet the cost and the outlay on other con-
structional work 40,000 £5 shares were auc-
tioned during the year. The last lot averaged
£lO Is. sd. per share. The result, together
with earlier capital movements, is seen in
the following table :
Share Total
Capital Premiums Total Pre-
Period. Received. Received. Capital. miums.
Dec., 1886 ..£50,000 £55,419 £607,710 £55,419
Dec., 1887 .. 49,500 85.669 657,210 144,088
Dec., 1889 .. 50,000 92,541 707,210 236,619
Dec., 1890 .. 50,000 111,123 757,210 347,752
Dec., 1891 . . 50,000 92,507 807,210 440,259
June, 1893 . . 18,650 16,571 825,860 456,830
Dec., 1594 . . 31,350 14,608 857,210 471,438
Dec., 1914 . . 50,000 47,210 907,210 518,648
Dec., 1915 .. 50,000 44,585 957,210 563,233
June, 1919 .. 42,790 25,880 1,000,000 589,113
Dec., 1924 . . 100,000 43,528 1,100,000 627,738
June, 1927 . . 75,000 68,040 1,175,000 695,778
Dec., 1927 .. 125,000 123,423 1,300,000 819,201
The heavy premiums make the 15 p.o. div.
a mere nominal return, and it has never been
anything else. Over the whole 50 years of
the co.’s existence shareholders have averaged
only 8.28 p.c. on share and premium capital;
from 1898 to 1907 the return was as low as
5.82 p.c., but for the past 10 years the
average was 8.68 p.c. And considering the
possibilities of legislative interference and
that there is now £1,727,200 of debentures in
front of shareholders the return is none
too high.
Extensions during the current year are
expected to call for a capital outlay of
£260,000, to be raised probably by share and
debenture issues. In the past large sums
have been sunk in works, etc., and charged
to revenue. Here is a comparison of the
expenditure over the last eight years:—
Year ended Repairs and Works, etc., Paid
Dec., Maintenance, for out of Profits.
1920 .. £164,062 £22,084
1921 . . 242,821 21,270
1922 . . 222,589 52.093
1923 . . 239,409 42,859
1924 . . 275.933 88,014
1925 .. 258,505 69,231
1926 . . 250,830 72.593
1927 . . 229,459 58,156
Nothing is mentioned about shifting the
centre of production from the present
crowded city sites, although it seems inevit-
able that the move will have to be made in
the end.
The co.’s present position is:—
1924. 1926. 1927.
Debentures . . £1,584,200 £1,727,200 £1,727,200
Creditors . . . . 250,537 396,053 272,051
Fixed assets .. 3,113,090 3,604,873 3,750,466
Stocks and stores. . 255,750 218,935 293,005
Book debts, invest-
ments and cash 406,214 303,544 254,940
Coal stocks are more comfortably propor-
tioned ; six months ago only 21,038 tons was
on hand, but by Dec. 31 61,112 tons had been
piled up.
The market prices the scrip at £lO 95.;
at which figure the return, after allowing
for the div. (7s. 6d.), is 7.4 p.c. on a 15 p.c,
div. basis.
* * * He
Weli.ington Gas Co. (M.L.) :
, Dividends Written
Dec., Profits. Pref. Ord. Total. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1916.. 28,847 5 p.c. 10 p.c. 27,301 74,360
1917.. 23,039 5 „ 5 „ 15,517 3,000 78,882
1918.. 38.404 5 ~ 5 „ 15 517 8,000 93.769
1919.. 43,766 5 „ 5 „ 15,747 5,500 116,288
1920.. 34,354 5 ~ 8 „ 23,090 4,500 123,052
1921.. 42,438 5 ~ 8 ~ 23,090 16,284 126,116
Reserves written off, £54.863 .. 71,253
1922.. 38,445 5 p.c. 8 p.c. 25,026 14,961 69,711
1923.. 58,514 5 „ 8 „ 26,533 16,330 85.362
1924.. 72,674 5 „ 8 „ 26,533 55,105 76,398
1925.. 64,257 5 „ 8 „ 26,533 16,081 98,041
1926.. 61,558 5 „ 8 „ 26,533 21,314 111,752
1927.. 63,461 5 „ 8 „ 26,533 21,533 121,747
Maoriland’s capital city goes on expanding,
and gas lias an almost unaccountable way of
holding its own against even such cheap
electric current as the Fernlanders enjoy.
For lighting, of course, it has been super-
seded for years, but this generation and the
one before that and the one before that again
have formed the habit of cooking by it, and
old habits die hard. In 192 G nine miles of
new mains were laid ; last year the co. laid
23 miles of mains, and roped the far-distant
hamlets of Khandallah and Ngaio into its
orbit; And it was a record year for install-
ing gas cookers, too —2215 of them as against
the previous best score of 1825 in 1926. The
price of coal, owing mainly to the disinclina-
tion of miners on both sides of the Tasman
to regard their job as a steady one, rose
during the year, but the co. started the new
year with a reduction in price by 2d. a
1090 c.f. Profits have again been sufficient
to pay a 5 p.c. div. on prefs. and 8 p.c. on
ords., to write £21,533 off for depreciation
and to substantially fatten reserves.
In the financial hurly-burly of 1921, when
the tail-end of a world-wide slump struck
Maoriland and the solidest institutions
rocked on their foundations, the co. made a
debenture issue of £200,000 at 8 per cent.
A conversion in 1926 to new debentures at
61 p.c. has contributed to last year’s improved
showing, and the co. still has the use of
£84,500 of pref. capital at 5 p.c., so that
the directors can pay an 8 p.c. div. on ords.
without any danger of cultivating insomnia.
Shareholders think that 10 p.c. would be
more appropriate, but capital expenditure on
extensions is still a heavy annual charge, and
the promised harvest will have to wait for
the reaping. When the huge hydro-electric
undertakings of the North Island get into
their stride competition will be a bit keener
and the wisdom of the directors in keeping
a bit under the clock will probably become
manifest. Balance-sheet movements show
that the ship is riding on a very even keel
just now:—
1925. 1926. 1927.
Debentures .. .. £200,000 £183,950 £199,100
Liabilities . . . . 12,915 9,495 23,400
Property, plant, etc... 520,995 572,483 610,438
Stocks 15,423 15,233 19,785
Book debts . . .. 20,908 22,088 26,151
Investments . . .. 24,705 20,005 19,005
Cash, etc 107,949 54,410 53,291
There has been a slight call on liquids to
meet the year's heavy capital expenditure,
and liabilities are higher than they have
been for years, but there is a substantial
addition to profit-earning assets to offset
the outlay. The market price of ords. has
risen a shilling (265. 6d. to 275. 6d.) during
the yeai’, which seems a fair assessment of
the progress made by the co. in the period.
❖ * * *
The Newcastle and Huntek Rivek
Steamship Co., Ltd. (N.S.W.) :
To Re- Rc-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1917.. 9,948 9 p.c. = 9,000 948 126,981
1918.. 14,530 10 ~,,10,000 4,530 131,511
1919.. 10,012 10 ~,,10,000 12
Written off, £17,495 j 114,0-8
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 64,028
1920.. 29,210 10 p.c. = 15,000 (.„ „„„
Written off contingencies, £248 J 13 ’ 902 77,J9 °
1921.. 23,937 10 p.c. = 15,000 ( „ RQ - ar af . r
Written off, £42 J 8 - 895 BC - 88j
1922.. 20,291 10 p.c. = 15,000 5,291 92,176
1923.. 19,281 10 „ „ 15,000 4,281 96,457
1924.. 28,892 10 „ ~15,000 13,892 110,349
1925.. 29.420 10 „ „ 15,000 14,420 124,769
1926.. 29,744 10 „ ~ 15,000 14,744 139,513
1927.. 32,617 10 „ „ 15,000 17,617 157,130
Year after year the profits reported by the
co. have been only a few pounds more than
was necessary to pay the 10 p.c. div. Last
year, for instance, net profit was written at
115,040 in the p. and 1. account, but that was
after making provision for depreciation, insur-
ance, etc., and £9302 dropped from some-
where into the general reserve (£102,570)
and £8275 into the insurance reserve
(£54,266). The store in both these cup-
boards is treated as true profit in the table,
and the “Wild Cat” doubts whether the posi-
tion may not even then be better. For the
last two out of the past five years dry con-
ditions in the Hunter liiver district have
affected trade, says the report. But the co.’s
profits continue to climb steadily; they were
21.7 p.c. on capital last year compared with
19.8, 19.6, 19.2 and 12.8 p.c. back to 1923.
A remarkable feature is that the earning
power of capital increased after the hatching
of the bonus egg early in 1920. For the pre-
ceding eight years profits averaged 13.2 p.c.
on capital, but for the last eight years the
average was 17.7 p.c. despite the fact that
net earnings over that period are calculated
on an extra £50,000 of gift scrip. Maybe
internal provisions are not quite on the
same scale as they used to be, but it is
unlikely that the old habit has been aban-
doned.
No inkling is given of the amount set
aside for depreciation, but the fleet is regu-
larly reported to be in good working order,
and in the last eight years £89,610 more
than was written off was spent on new
vessels, etc. Shareholders have not been
asked to provide a penny of the money. Last
year a new steamer, the Kindur, was ordered.
She is expected to be in commission at an
early date, and the current year’s earnings
should benefit. The purchase is visible in
this comparison of balance-sheet figures:—
1919. 1926. 1927.
Capital £lOO,OOO £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. .. 23,557 19,650 21,794
Ship property . . . . 89,759 145,560 179,369
Freeholds and leaseholds 16,309 15,444 15,444
Plant, stores, etc. .. 6,040 9,053 9,191
Book debts .. .. 17,350 20,085 19,410
Cash, etc 108,332 126,521 113,010
The book value of shipping property
(£179,369) increased £33,809, and £2144 was
added to the debt (£21,794), but the liquid
surplus (£110,626) was only £16,330 lighter
than in 1926. Thus shareholders are very
comfortably positioned. After allowing for
the final div. (Is.) there was 13s. 9d. in
liquids; 3s. 3d. in freeholds, leaseholds, plant,
etc.; and 235. lid. in shipping property, or
a total of 40s. lid. in net tangibles to repre-
sent each £1 share.
The average profit over the last five years
was £5490 more than would be necessary to
pay 10 p.c. on half as much capital again
as the present £150,000. After looking a:
the eo.’s snug position, including the fine pile
of visible reserves, now £7130 in excess of
capital, the market anticipates the future and
pays 425. 6d. for the scrip. The immediate
return at that figui’e is 4.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis.
* * * *
The Red Funnel Fisheries, Ltd. (N. S.
Wales)
To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1926.. 9566 7i p.c. = 4304 '5262 1814
Deficit.
Added preliminary exes., £4392 .. 2578
1927.. 8605 8 p.c. = 6673 1932 646
The co. started with two trawlers in Dec.,


:
©
It is Easy to Own a
PACKARD
The Packard is not a “high-
priced” car. Many thousands
of Packard owners all over the
world have discovered that it
is easier to own a Packard at
a medium price than it is to
purchase cheaper cars which
must be renewed every two
or three years. They have
found that the
Packard is not
an expensive
car to operate, and that
depreciation is less because
of the longer life of the car.
They have learned that the
various models of the Packard
Six are obtainable at consider-
ably less than £lOOO. The
model illustrated, for instance,
is a Packard Six five - pas-
senger Sedan,
and is priced
at only £855.
Ride in and drive one of
these fine cars whether
you intend to buy a new
car or not.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERIES.
IRA L. & A. C. BERK (Packard) LTD.
' Eerk House, 72-76 William St., Sydney. Phones: FL2671 (5 lines)
Kellow, Falkinei Pty. Ltd.
206 Russell St.,
Melbourne.
Universal Motors Ltd.,
Cr. Boundary & Ivory
Sts., Brisbane.
I a L. & A. C. Berk (Packard) Ltd.,
14.1 Flinders St v
Adelaide.
H. C. Hea thorn & Co. Ltd m
Hobart, Tasmania.
Denny Bros. LtcL,
439-447 Murray
St., Perth.
PACKARD
J 1 s k 9A e ZM a n QJ7 ho Owns One


We stock + GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
ftom William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Auvt.
* * * *
New Ideas Worth Money. That new idea of yours
may be worth money. If it is, then secure a mono-
poly by taking out a patent. You can find out with
a degree of certainty by consulting an experienced
Patent Attorney. Mr. H. H. Ray ward, Me.E., Patent
Attorney and Consulting Engineer, of Sirius House,
Macquarie Place, Sydney, has had over 30 years’
experience in securing patents. His interesting book-
let, “Inventions,” will be sent free on application.
Advt.
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe will give great volume of flow
—in fact the longer it is kept in service the greater
the volume becomes, the smooth inner bore of non-
corroding wood offering no resistance to the flow—
giving no foothold for growths or collection of sedi-
ment. This quality should be of special interest on
gravity flow pipe lines. There are other important
reasons for its superiority. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.;
and at Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * ns *
Patents.- —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.i.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * #
Insley (U.S.A.) One-man Crawler-type Petrol
or Motor-driven Power Shovel. This one machine
does the work of six. Namely, Shovelling, Ditch-
ing, Skimmer Scooping, Crane work, Dragline, Back-
filler and Magnet. Sole Agents: Arthur Leplastrier
and Co. Pty., Ltd., Sirius House, Macquarie Place,
Sydney; Collins House, Melbourne, 164 Edward
Street, Brisbane; and Morphett Street, Adelaide.
—Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs or an classes ol
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY OF N.S.W., LTD.
Your estate is built up by years of close attention to your interests —you
make your Will and feel you have done your best for your dependants.
BUT—have you any guarantee that the Executor you have appointed will
live to carry out the duties imposed upon him by your Will, or that he will
always be available to render to your dependants the services that as an Executor
he owes them ?
THIS COMPANY never dies or travels, is always available, and, once
appointed, it continues to act until the termination of the Trust.
Our interesting Booklet will be sent post free on request.
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
F. N. Yarwood (Chairman).
Alfred G. Milson.
James Moir.
O. E. Friend.
Thos. Buckland.
PERMANENCE
CAPITAL:
Subscribed. .£1,000,000
Paid Up .. £llO,OOO
Uncalled . . £890,000
As Showing the Popularity of the
“CURVILINEAR” in South Africa
Our Bulawayo Agents assure us that, although all well-known concentrators are
represented there, the only Tables sold in Rhodesia for quite a long time are
Curvianears;
Our Agents have just cabled us for ano ther shipment to Durban.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., Patentees and Manufacturers,
CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
1925. When the accounts closed a year later
it had half a dozen vesssels at work, and
the £9566 netted was equal to 164 p.c. on
the average capital employed. The second
term (1927) opened with promises of even
better results; competition had largely dis-
appeared, the demand was improving and the
co. does its own marketing. For the year
to November 30 last bigger catches per boat
were reported, and there was an extra
£32,362 of capital at work over most of the
term —paid capital was £89,751 in 121,666
£1 shares when the books were ruled off.
However, the year’s net profit (£8605) was
written at £961 below the 1926 figure. But
the acting-chairman, F. G. Waley, says
results were satisfactory, also that adequate
provision has been made for depreciation of
steamers, plant, etc. A great deal de-
pends upon whether the providing has been
sufficient. Shareholders were handed 8 p.c.,
the balance of the year’s net earnings
(£1932) reducing the intangibles to £646.
Little information is given in the pub-
lished sheet on this occasion. Deposits, war
loan and prepayments are now lumped with
the whole of the fixed assets in one untidy
entry at £114,269. The corresponding figure in
the 1926 accounts was £103,201. The new
capital that came in went partly into the
main group of assets and partly to reduce
the debt. The latter (£27,912) was £15,973
lighter and includes provision for taxation.
Book debts and cash tot up to £6338. The
scrip, which has not yet been listed, has a
net tangible backing of 19s. lid., nearly all
of it in vessels and gear, and buyers are
offering about 19s. for it. At that figure
the return is 8.4 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
* * * *
Sulphide Corp., 12s. 7d. That, of course,
is the ordinaries; there are 600,000 of £1
prefs. and the same of 15s.
A year ago the latter were just under the
pound. At the annual meeting in London
the chairman (ex-S.A. Gov. Kintore) said
that the fire in the B. H. Central mine had
cost over £900,000, £450,000 of it money
spent and the balance profit lost. The latter
doesn’t look like merely profit deferred;
it is doubtful whether the co. will ever again
get such metal markets as it missed. As the
chairman told the meeting, metal markets are
sensitive cattle. The world’s output of lead
for 1927 was only about 34 p.c. greater than
for 1926, yet there was a fall of nearly
50 p.c. in the price. A plan for limiting pro-
duction has been suggested; but it doesn’t
seem to have got very far. One difficulty
lies in the very wide distribution of the
metal. Kintore could see nothing very cheer-
ful in the immediate prospect. Which prob-
ably accounts for the 12s. 7d. Still, Sul-
phides are always worth consideration be-
cause the co. has two other very good strings
to its bow—the super, and the cement works.
Both these industries have a big future,
and so far as super, in particular is con-
cerned Sulphide Corp. lias a good hold on
the N.S.W. market. The co. is helped, too,
by a first-class organisation, though it
obviously wasn’t as good as it ought to
have been at Broken Hill, or the fire
wouldn’t have got the start it did. On the
technical side it has always been very strong.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan hadn’t got an offer for the
mine when tenders closed the other day.
However, there’s a tidy sum in the till from
the liquidation of other assets, an 1 a first
ss. div. will be paid on production of scrip
on March 21.
* * H« *
“Gazeeka”: The recent small increase in
the price of copper is generally looked on
by the American technical press as an indi-
cation that copper producers have discovered
that there is no sense in continuing large
outputs merely for the honor and glory of
it. Buyers have been quite content to watch
the competition between the large pro-
ducers, whose haste to appear at the head
of the next month’s returns had only the
effect of using up the reserves of the mine
and of keeping the price down. There is,,
therefore, a possibility of copper production
being restricted to a point nearer the con-
sumption. This action is not likely to be of
much benefit to Australian copper concerns.
The Arbitration Courts have effectually
settled any chance of copper being produced
here at a cost of much less than £lOO per
ton.
ije sfc He
The Marranboy Co. (N.T.), floated by
Arthur Clarke, of Cairns, in May, 1926, has
20-head stamps, together with gas suction
and electric plants and eight concentrating-
tables, etc., on the field and in course of
erection. John Tully, who before the war
mined on the open-cut system at The Oaks
goldfield, is in charge. The mill, which is
of the latest tin-saving type, is being erected
on the mine, and water is being pumped 31
miles from Beswick Creek, where it is avail-
able in the driest of seasons. The stampers
are expected to fall by the end of April;
meantime ore will continue to be crushed at
the Government mill. Portions of the mine
show very high values, but the management
has decided to bulk the ore, thus keeping up
a general average, which is predicted will
be between 2 and 24 per cent, return and
show a profit of about 30s. per ton with tin
at £250. When the new mill is completed
it should average between 1200 and 1500
tons a month, and there is 15 years’ ore in
sight.
* * * *
The intensive drilling campaign is in full
blast at Mt. Isa. While Urquhart and Cor-
bould were there at least six drills were
churning up carbonate and sulphide ore for
sampling. In addition a 6in. churn drill
is being used on the Black Star for the
double-barrelled purpose of ventilation and
sampling. The preparatory work for open-
cutting the immense Black Star lode is well
advanced. Three of the contemplated 100 ft.
vertical shafts have been finalised, and cross-
cutting is under way to the outside walls.
The full section is reckoned to run to a
maximum of 212 ft., and this includes some
slabs of country which have assay values for
lead.
* * * *
Tin prospects on Kangaroo Hills (N.Q.)
are not as bright as they were this time
last year. Certainly the Sardine is still
breaking ore averaging 10 p.e. concentrates,
but the recently-floated Metropolitan has
proved disappointing; its last 33 tons ob-
tained in prospecting work yielded only one
ton of concentrates. The Sardine North is
breaking a little ore, and its north level is
showing a lense 15 to 20 inches thick of 5
p.c. stuff. The fco. is testing another make of
ore in the hanging wall. Prospecting shows
are being profitably worked, but outputs are
insignificant in most cases.
:|s }j£ :Jc *
“Old Warden”: Cooktown (N.Q.) has
just received a felon blow from the
southern authorities, who have decided
to abolish the offices of Gold Warden
and Police Magistrate in the now goat-
inhabited town. To lose the P.M. was bad
enough, but the Warden was the last link
with the glorious days.
❖ Hs H« H«
The Bakes Entrance Development Co.,
Gippsland (Vic.), has issued an encouraging
report that free oil has been obtained from
the No. 2 bore by ,T. C. Watson, chief
chemist of the Victorian Mines Department.
Mr. Watson bailed about half a gallon of
free oil from the borehole. He states that
the oil came into the bore freely from oil-
bearing strata, and that when deprived of
the natural gas held in suspension the
sample will be reduced to one cjuart of oil.
This is the first free crude-oil that has come
from a borehole in Victoria.
***>!:
The third Schedule of the Miners’ Phthisis
Act is proving even a heavier burden for the
Westralian Government than was anticipated.
Claims by affected miners continue to come
in so thick and fast that the State Insur-
ance Department has to look for claims
money outside of premium revenue. Ordinary
insurance companies refused to quote a rate
for this business to Minister for Works
McCallum until he enlightened them as to
the number of cases likely to be subjects of
claims. The business entered a new phase
when, just before Christmas, Seddon, M.L.C.,
persuaded the old gentlemen of his Chamber to
pass an innocent-looking- amendment to the
Act; this provides for men suffering from
silicosis (apart from t.b. and pneumoconiosis)
in combination with other complaints not
included in the Act receiving compensation
in proportion to the degree of disability
attributable to silicosis. Premier Collier has
since discovered that the measure is more far
reaching than first appeared, and has not
yet had the amendment proclaimed. When
the House reopens, someone will want to
know the reason why.
*4: H? *
Star Explorations, Ltd., which once
owned heaps of tailings and other things at
Kalgoorlie, but which now carries on a
financial business chiefly connected with
ventures in other parts of the world, has
just issued another annual statement of
accounts. Net profit is shown as £2399, and
£798 was brought forward; £1164 has been
written off investment account, £354 trans-
ferred to reserve and 5 per cent, less tax
paid to shareholders, leaving, subject to addi-
tional directors’ remuneration (£7O), £476
to be carried forward. The co. claims that
90 per cent, of its total investments —value
not stated: —are marketable on the Stock
Exchange.
* * * *
A notable feature of the almost paralysed
Westralian mining market has been the rise
in Lake View-Stars and Sons of Gwalias.
The jump in the former stock is said to be
due to the early development at depth of a
fairly high-grade make of ore which the
Golden Horseshoe co. stoped to the Chaffers
boundary and which the Lake View-Star co.
is. after protracted negotiations, being
allowed to open up in Chaffers from the
Horsesh@e workings. The appreciation in
Sons of Gwalias is attributed to the recent
announcement that the State Government
had agreed to grant substantial financial
assistance to the co. to enable it to complete
equipment and continue development.
Great Victoria mine, Southern Cross
(W.A.),has been long worked by an enter-
prising little crowd —the Teddy Jack Syndi-
cate. Capable and economical methods en-
abled the syndicate to just about make ends
meet until it was advised to venture into
the Broncho Horseshoe, a big low-grade
deposit about half a mile from the Victoria.
The gold content of the B.H. is so disap-
pointingly low that the various members
of the syndicate are now dipping into their
pockets for the wherewithal to settle a long
list of liabilities accumulated in a short
time.
* * * *
Westralia continues to provide sustenance
and even motor transport for the sliovel-and-
dish brigade, but with very little result.
Since 1919 £48,000 has been so spent, and at
the end of last year the operations of pro-
specting parties extended from Hall’s Creek
in the north to Raveiisthorpe in the south
and from the west coast to Karonie on the
trans-line in the east. Finds have been re-
ported from time to time, and in a few
instances outcrops of high metallic content
have been napped, but their size and situa-
tion render them of no immediate com-
mercial importance.
* s* * *
O.K. goldmine at Norseman (W.A.),
which Gt. Boulder Proprietary worked for
a time and then gave up, is now making
money for a local syndicate. Small but
good returns have lately been obtained from
the show, and values in the present bottom
workings are reported to be high.
* # * *
Tongkah Harbor Tin D. Co. has lately
been feeling the pinch of reduced output and
higher working costs. It ended its last
financial year, Sept. 30, with a net loss of
£7878 (the 1926 accounts showed a profit of
£6048), and that reduced the credit at profit
and loss to £51,630. The loss on working
account was £1776, dredging costs having
jumped to 7.574 d. per yard as against 5.192 d.
in the previous year. Inability to get the old
dredges properly repaired and new plants
finished as contracted for was also partly
responsible for the loss. This was especially
the case with dredges Nos. 4 and 5 at Bang
Tao, both having to be cut out and towed
to Chelong and Tongkah Harbor respectively.
No. 4 began working at the end of February,
1927, and, with No. 6, is making good
recoveries; these dredges show a profit
on the year’s workings. No. 5 should be
refitted by the end of February, and is to
commence work on the new property at Bang
Neang. At Bidor, also, much time was lost
on repairs to No. 2. Chairman Alfred Ash-
bolt is confident that the co. will soon be
back to the old profitable conditions. Much
of the work done has been preparatory and
future possibilities are to be seen in the
work done by No. 6 at Chelong. This drcMge
practically paid the expenses of the cutting
out and transfer of Nos. 4 and 5 and of
the repairs to No. 2 at Bidor. No. 7 dredge
should commence digging shortly at Tongkah
Harbor, or may join No. 6 at Chelong. With
all four dredges working, it is expected to
win 100 tons a week, and so long as tin
remains in the neighborhood of £250 this
should give a sufficiently handsome return.
❖ t]i s}: #
Changkat is not overcapitalised for a show
of its promise (£120,000 in pound shares all
issued and f.p.), and the boring tests show
the property to be undoubtedly rich, at any
rate in the 300 acres or so tested. This area
is estimated to contain 30,000,000 cubic
yards of dredgeable ground. Of this 9,000,000
yards are figured to go 2Jib. and the re-
mainder about Boz. Average depth is 60ft.
and the bottom soft granite. The dredge is
modern and has a capacity of 180,000
yards per month, with jig-classifiers, etc. It
has been in process of erection for some
time, and is expected to start very shortly.
The £1 shares were lately quoted 355. 6d.
buyers, 375. sellers, and they have been steady
in this neighborhood for some time. Nearly
all tin stocks are at present inflated, and
that is as far as the “Wild Cat” is prepared
to go in advising as to value of scrip in com-
panies which are not yet producing, for the
best of these are more or less a gamble till
the results begin to come, in. So far as it lias
gone, Changkat looks less of a gamble than
most.
* * * *
The January batch of the Malayan tin-
dredging returns shows that the condition of
the patients is much the same as for the
last few months—neither better nor worse in
many instances, and doing nicely in others.
Rawang started the new year by getting its
sluicing plant in operation again, the 38,000
yards put through returning 18 tons, average
1.131 b.; the dredge dug 112,000 yards for
27 tons, average .571 b average for the
previous quarter was .621 b. Malim Nawar
put through 96,000 yards for 18 tons, average
,451 b. as against ,471 b. for the three months
ending December 31. Malim Nawar South
took out 109,000 yards for 30 tons, average
.661 b. compared with .591 b. for the quarter.
Ivundang also showed a slight improvement
with 23 tons from 87.000 yards, average
.631 b. as against .60 lb. for the October-
December period. Kuala Kampar did not do
so well, dropping from an average of .451 b.
to one of over .351 b., 25 tons being won from
170,000 yards. Tanjong Tualong improved,
the month’s average being over .631 b. as
against .531 b. for the previous quarter,
130,000 yards being turned over for 35 tons of
t.o. Jelapang, the Tanah Biji subsidiary, re-
covered a bare .501 b., the big dredge turning
over 104,000 yards for 21 tons. A. P.
Penman's estimate was that Jelapang would
return from lib. to .701 b. per cubic yard.
The Larut amalgamation’s dredges put
through 332,000 yards and recovered 94
tons t.o. The average was over .681 b., a
big jump from the .511 b. of the previous three
months. Takuapa improved, taking 43 tons
from 125,000 yards, average .S2lb. as against
,681 b. for the last quarter of 1927. Selayang
marked time with 14 tons from 70,200 yards,
or a trifle over .471 b. to the yard, about its
average to date. Estimated average values
in this property range from ,801 b. to ,901 b.,
by Malcolm Newman, to ..601b. per yard, by
P. W. Payne and Sons, of London.
Of the Austral Malay group, Ivampong
Kamunting took 49.5 tons from 146,000
yards, average .751 b., the previous quarter’s
figures being .791 b. Asam Kumbang showed
a drop with 40.5 tons from 92,000 yards,
average .981 b. as against 1.051 b. for the
Dec. quarter. Ulu Yam took 21.5 tons from
77,000 yards, average .621 b. as against the
quarter’s average of .521 b. Thabawleik
turned over 71,000 yards for 33.5 tons, aver-
aging 1.051 b., or not quite as good as the
Dec. quarterly average of 1.341 b.
* * * *
New Salak South, an Eastern tin-dredging
concern with a chequered history, has
emerged from its seclusion with a report on
a property it is boring in the Bangkok dis-
trict, Siam. This states that 11 bores put
down on the co.’s Haad Yai property, and
averaging 23ft., have disclosed a tin con-
tent of lloz. per c.y. A gravel pump in the
centre of the ground has been treating 230 z.
stuff, and the engineer in charge considers
that 80 acres of ground have been proved by
bores arid pitting to go 18oz. to the yard.
New Salak started life as a Melbourne-
floated dredging co. Operations had to be sus-
pended til] early in 1926, wdien capital was
raised to send a representative out. Then
the co. reported a rich find at Bandon, Siam,
and the shares, paid to 16s. 3d., immediately
climbed from Is. 9d. to 40s. A new co.,
Nakon Tin, was proposed to carry out in-
tensive check-boring on the property, which,
unfortunately, proved a dud. Shares in Salak
slumped heavily, the new directors retired
and tlie new co. was pigeonholed. New
Salak then carried oh as a prospecting co.
under the old board.


103
iyu
IMJ
wijjpiwi
IjwT
n«mimmmi\iii
am
i ii
~ > 1 1 • t' rrjn II | i i» j" • * • ,“t“
11 •! 11 1 1 11 1 11 i 1 .MTTnrf 11
r
i
i. '
\
k
’Tf 'H*
pp’”
V 2
im
§§§l!
i f
it
->■
II
/St
--V.
HU!
'i 'I yjjjuu * I M WMl 1 'M^jpunm nil
uiiiimiiimiui | ii^i | Luipi7iiti^i;i>wiiiii<.w..s.
S 3)
)
r
te
»
8
*^y : -*'*g«g?ra: ,I~*ZZ£~Z&
SB
>.-,
T-V
i
agagjMi
contributed to by more than
200 world-wide authorities
Notable Appreciations.
From Sir G. H. Knibbs, C.M.G.,
F.R.A.S. Hon. F.S.S., Member Inter-
national Institute of Statisticians,
Commonwealth Statistician, 1906-21:
The “Australian Encyclopaedia” is
a work of which you may well be
proud. It should be in every public
institution in the world.
From G. and C. Merriam Company,
Springfield, Mass., U.S.A., Publishers
of genuine Webster Dictionaries since
1843,
The editorial work on the Australian
Supplement to our “International
Dictionary" (now incorporated in the
body of the “New Intel-national”) was
a difficult task, and we ivish we could
then have had access to the “Australian
Encyclopcedia,” in every page of which
appears evidence of accurate author-
ship, careful editing, and wise selection.
From Humphrey Milford, Oxford
University Press: —
It is a splendid work —most interest-
ing and well produced. The manifest
expenditure of much labour and money
upon it is amply justified by the uni-
versal service it will render.
From W. A. Osborne, D.Sc., M. 8.,
Professor of Physiology, University of
Melbourne, Victoria: —
You deserve besides congratulations,
the gratitude of all Australians and of
all those interested in Australia.
From Ernest Scott, Professor of
History in the University of Mel-
bourne, author of “Terre Napoleon,
“Life of Captain Flinders,” and A
Short History of Australia”: —
I have ivorked at the first volume
somewhat thoroughly, and can confi-
dently say that it is an achievement in
editing and publishing of which your
firm lias every reason to be proud,
and which will secure for you the en-
during gratitude of those who use the
book, whether for the facts it presents,
or for guidance in pursuit of further
inquiries.... The degree of complete-
ness attained is really surprising.
From Grafton Elliot Smith, F.R.S.,
Professor of Anatomy, University Col-
ledge, London: —
My congratulations on the success-
ful completion of a great work.
From Dr. Fredk. Watson, editor of
the “Historical Records of Australia”
for the Government of the Common-
wealth :
I want to congratulate you on a
magnificent piece of work. In my
opinion, it is the only book worth
consulting for a quick appreciation of
any information about our country,
whether historical, political, scientific
or statistical —in fact I have not yet
found any subject omitted. The work
is not only of great value for refer-
ence, but I think it is a national and
most patriotic undertaking. Apart
from the subject matter I must also
congratulate you on the type, style
of production and the plates, more
especially the colour plates.
From Charles H. Wickens, Com-
monwealth Statistician, .Australian
Bureau of Census and Statistics.
I should like to congratulate you
most sincerely on the all round excel-
lence of the publication for which you
and those associated with you have
been responsible. I fully realise the
immense labour involved in the pre-
paration of such a work. It will be ex-
tremely useful.
Why have the leading universities and libraries of the world
subscribed for this work? Why have copies been bought by
educationalists, economists, students, industrialists, scientists and
general readers in every part of the globe?
Because after critical examination of both volumes they were
satisfied that the “Australian Encyclopaedia” was the most accu-
rate, interesting and comprehensive work of reference on this
country.
Two hundred of the world’s most capable men in their own
particular spheres applied themselves for 1 4 years to the compila-
tion of this book. Before the first copy had left the press there had
been spent upon its production, in Australia, the sum of £30,000.
The reasons why 10,000 Australians have already bought the
“Australian Encyclopaedia” are not hard to find, and were partly
expressed by “The Cape Times” (South Africa) when it said:
“Facts are set out in language so clear and vivid that the work is
almost as entertaining as it is instructive.
Many of these 10,000 buyers were impressed by the fact
that Australian money, brains and hands had produced a work
challenging comparison, and ware proud to reflect that our hig
standard of education and wealth warranted the appearance here
of a national encyclopaedia ahead of older countries with far
larger populations.
Parents recognised the educational value of this book and its
power to foster in their children a lasting sense of national pride.
Others were pleased to have at hand an indisputable authority
with which to decide any argument concerning Australian subjects.
All of them recognised that in these two volumes they were
securing a work by the highest authorities, presenting in an interest-
ing and readily available form all known information concerning
Australia.
Before deciding, each of these 10,000 buyers may have asked
himself, even subconsciously—
if r
What do / know of my country ?
The “Australian Encyclopaedia” deals, for Australia, with—
History
Geography
Geology
Religion
Agriculture
Science
Ethnology
Botany
Birds
Biography
Literature
Art
Drama
Music
Insects
Fishes
Other Animals
Games
etc., etc.
FREE EXAMINATION—EASY TERMS
If you are proud of your land of birth or adop-
tion and feel that you should be generally better
informed concerning it we will gladly send you the
complete set of the “Australian Encyclopaedia”
for seven days’ FREE examination entirely
at our risk and expense and without any
obligation to you whatsoever. Write
for FREE illustrated prospectus and
full particulars of our “FREE
examination without obliga-
tion” offer and easy-pay-
ment plan.
USE THIS
COUPONS
ANGUS 8 ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
FREE
ANGUS AND
ROBERTSON,
LIMITED,
89 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Without placing me under any
obligation please send me your
FREE illustrated prospectus o f th e
“Australian Encylopcedia” and full particu-
lars of your FREE examination offer and
easy-payment plan.
NAME
ADDRESS
8.8/2/’2B.


Reading This May Save
You From Buying
An Obsolete Motor Car
Whippet Continues
Its Engineering
Leadership
Economy —Whippet holds A. A .A.
Coast-to-Coast Economy Record.
4 -Wheel Brakes— First
light car to introduce this safety
feature.
Easier Parking— Turns in a 17-
foot radius. Parks in 14 feet oi curb
space.
mmmwm
!!
m
ilent Timing Chain — For
uiet engine operation, as on ex-
pensive cars.
m '•w «v
s#
Kf
“*• ; .$Jf
■P-_
<*X2
ft
Nfc
«»%i
y>u
Engine— Develops more power for
its s ize than any other light car engine.
m
m.
Low Centre of Gravity
Makes for smoother riding and
greater security.
\
L
'll
Full-Vision Bodies Narrow
front pillars remove the “blind spot"
hazard.
Wrißl6is3S3Kss3
A
More Leg Room More than
in any other car at or near its
price.
Proven by 200,000 Owners
EVERY recent new car announcement serves to emphasize the Overland
Whippet’s leadership in light car design. Introduced in 1926 the Whip-
pet was the first car in the lower price range to offer its remarkable com-
bination of fine-car advantages.
Now, two years later, developments indicate that other manufacturers are
attempting to follow Whippet’s lead.
Four-wheel brakes and some of the other advantages pioneered by Whippet in
the light car field are now appearing in the design of other light cars, but
only in the Whippet do you get ALL the advantages of modern design, unu-
sual economy, force-feed lubrication, silent timing chain, LARGE four-wheel
brakes, low centre of gravity, modern appearance, speed, comfort, and a hun-
dred details of quality construction. These quality specifications mean long
life to the car and higher resale value.
The Overland Whippet now carries the enthusiastic endorsement of more
than 200,000 owners who have put this modern car to the acid test of more
than 500,000,000 miles of service. Such proven superiority makes the Whip-
pet, in its present perfection, the logical choice of everyone who investigates
carefully current motor car values.
It is important to remember that other manufacturers are only starting to fol-
low the already proven Whippet specifications. Their new cars have still to go
through a long experimental period of customer use before their real worth
can be ascertained.
You can buy the Whippet now—assured of its performance and its lasting
qualities assured that a year from now it will still be the most modern car
in the field.
If you have never ridden in one of these modern cars, come in today for a
trial drive. A delightful new motoring experience awaits you*
Touring
Coach
Sedan
7w ° verland
/hinpet
JBm JSm
Overland Sydney, Ltd., 148-150 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Overland Victoria Pty., Ltd., 117-121 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
Overland South Australia, Ltd., 236-238 Victoria Square, ADELAIDE.
E. G. Eager & Son, Ltd.. Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Adams Motors, Ltd., 442-446 Murray Street, PERTH.
Roadstef
Coupe
Cabriolet*
Coupe
VILLYS-OVERLAND
FINE
MOTOR
CARS


WEDDING PRESENTS
PyreX Dish, set in artistic pierced frame,
which is extra heavily silverplated on
best hard white metal, 45/-
Distinctive suitable Wedding Presents may be
selected from Fairfax & Roberts enormous
stocks.
Infinite variety is assured, for
their resident London buyer
secures all the latest goods.
Exceptional quality is certain,
for they have a high reputa-
tion to sustain.
Extremely moderate prices are
offered, for their wide cash
buying powers and long trad-
ing experience secure won-
derful advantages.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
LTD
PLAIN FIGURES.
CASH ONLY.
'’Such a reputation is not won overnight"
m Wt
+9
AX
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d, ... 20 for 1/6
Major Drapkin c 5 Co.. London. Branch of The United
Kingdom Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
> A A if#ni Ai 4Aii
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Momokeni” : Anyone who gives the palm
[>f the Pacific to Gaili girls’ tattooing (B.
19/l/’2B) can never have seen Maori tat-
tooing, to say nothing of the work of such
past-masters of the art as the Japanese.
THEN GO!
SSCOTS SAR'N-MAJOR: “When I give the command the squad will stand fast till the 1
fourrth syllable of the wurrd ‘tu-r-r-r-rn’."
Even amongst Papuans, Gaili tattooing (now
degenerated into a bastard mixture of Euro-
pean and Papuan designs) at its best was
never comparable with the intricate and
beautiful patterns tattooed on the maidens of
the Upper Angabunga River, Me ke°- the
present day one finds no trace of European
influence in the symmetrical dots and dashes,
loops and whorls of Mekeo decoration. Ihese,
to the initiated, give every detail ot tne girl s
family tree. A Mekeo damsel unadorned with
these genealogical designs is rarer than a
Sydney flapper without powder or lipsalve.
As the tattooing is of Nipponesque beauty,
interpreted in terms of Papuan artistry, and
as many Mekeo natives possess distinctly
Japanese names, it is more than probable
that Japanese wisited Papua long before
white settlement.
* * * *
“Bill R.” : A sure way to exterminate ter-
mites that have invaded the house is to intro-
duce a colony of ordinary black ants, tmd
the termites’ run leading from the earth to
their homes in the wood ; then keep a thin
layer of sugar sprinkled from the ants nest
to the run. Gradually lessen the sugar and
work to lead the ants until they have dis-
covered the enemy. When they are found
preying upon the white fellows the vest
may be left to them. They will follow the
termites relentlessly until they have eaten
them out to the last egg.
* * * *
“Darbre” : I have examined many a wedge-
tailed eagle’s nest and in each case but one
the birds have soared into the blue
their nursery was being overhauled. The ex-
ception supports “Pigcat’s” contention (B.
12/l/’2B) that no one can say what a bird
will do. In this case the nest was in a
belar which I proceeded to climb. Both
birds promptly appeared, seemingly from no-
where; the larger, the female, perched on
the nest’s edge and glared down at me with
fierce eyes. . My curiosity departed and, slid-
ing to the ground, I sauntered off at a jog-
trot, the male fowl escorting me a few feet
overhead. Certainly I wasn’t attacked, but I
wouldn’t have climbed a yard nearer to that
old hen for a hatful of V.C’s.
* * * *
“Ulysses”: In the lower reaches of the
Harding River, between Cossack and Roe-
bourne (W.A.), there are a couple of small
pools. Sometimes, after being filled by an
extra high spring tide, followed by a hot
spell, they become so salt that large numbers
of a small fish like the pilchard are killed by
the salinity of the water, and come to the
surface perfectly pickled—the natives col-
lect the pickled fish by the hundred.
*❖* • *
“Chinta Had”: The clams 2ft. Gin. in
length mentioned by “Toonooba” (B.
22/12/’27) are mere cockles compared with
some of the clams on the bottom of the
Cocos lagoon. Many lifted from the shal-
lower parts in my time measured 4ft.
Although it is hard to judge the size of shells
lying in 20 fathoms of water it is likely
there are clams there still that would measure
up to sft. in length; but it would take a
stick of dynamite to dislodge them. Inci-
dentally, the heaviest known pair of clam-
shells are the famous holy-water basins in
the Cathedral of St. Sulpice, Paris, which
together weigh 5501 b. They have a length
of 4ft. 6in. and a breadth of 2ft. sin.
“Up North” : I’ve never been able to dis-
cover the reason why natives pierce the sep-
tum of the nose to insert a carved stick,
shell, bone, alligator’s tooth or boar’s tusk.
Niggers have assured me it is just a “flash”
custom, but I tiave
a suspicion that it
has some occult sig-
nificance. The cus-
tom prevails among
tribes who have
little else in com-
mon. Old man abo.
grabbed his baby
boy and pierced the
septum with a hard-
wood splinter, plug-
ging up the hole
with a wad of clay,
so that the skin
could not grow to-
gether again. Tor-
res Islanders used
a similar method,
but added a little
fami 1 ,y ceremon y
with it. In New
Guinea the people
still operate with a
sharp shell, thorn,
fish-bone or splinter
of bamboo the
same tools that
their forefathers
used. When th e
child is old enough
an ornament is in-
serted. Some in-
dulge in oversize
jewellery. To sud-
denly meet a naked
nig, with a mop of
hair like an emu’s
overcoat and an
eight-inch stick
through his nose, is
no joke if you are
a nervous subject.
Maids wear the
nose ornaments,
too, and this per-
haps is why kissing
is not a national
pastime in Papua.
Toikiss some belles
I’ve seen Borneo
would first of all
have to yank half
a pound of pendent
ivory, fish-bone or
hardw r ood out of
the way.
“E.S.S.”: “S’pose you haven’t seen a
streak of misery an’ a squinny-eyed bloke
travellin’ with one horse between ’em?”
asked Bill the Battler, as he sat on his swag.
I said I hadn’t. “I met ’em at Goona
shed,” Bill went on—“I was pressin’ an’
The Streak an’ Squinny were dag-pickin’.
At the cut-out Squinny, who’d a nuggetty
horse an’ an ole saddle, rode down to
Grogan’s pub, an’ The Streak an? I follered
next day on foot. When we got
to the pub we finds Squinny
mopin’ on the verandah. Some-
body’d pinched his cheque, he
tol’ us, an’ as he wanted some
money in a hurry he’d sell us his
horse an’ saddle for ten quid.
The Streak got int’rested at
once. ‘We’ll buy that moke
between us,’ he says to me, ‘an’
we can ride him turn about.
That will be better’n walkin’
all the time.’ ‘No good to me,’
I says at first; but he talked
me over. He could talk any-
body over, Tue Streak could.
We paid Squinny a fiver each
an’ took possession of Carbine
an’ the gear. The Streak allowed
me first ride on account of a
sore foot I had. My swag was
strapped on in front of me,
while The Streak walked along-
side an’ carried his. At the
end of an hour I got off an’ he
got on. When we’d gone about
ten miles The Streak falls off
in a gully, an’ the moke gets
away an’ jogs back the way we’d
come. ‘You'd better camp at the
next waterliole,’ says The
Streak, as he sets out after it.
I camped half a mile farther on,
chucklin’ at the treat he’d given
himself. When night came an’ no sign of
The Streak I made a good fire so he could
find me. an’ kep’ it goin’ nearly all night, but
he didn’t turn up. I started back after sun-
rise, an’ landed at the pub. ‘Seen anything
of The Streak?’ I asks Grogan. ‘Yes,’ says
Grogan, ‘he stopped here last night an’ left
early this mornin’ with Squinny and the
horse.’ ‘Go on!’ I says. ‘Yes,’ says Grogan.
‘Squinny was havin’ first ride.’ ”
* * * *
“Simon”: The tasting competition (B.
12/l/’2B) reminds me of a smelling stakes
I once promoted at a church bazaar. We
had 20 opaque bottles the contents of which
had to be named by a sniff at the bottle. We
started off the goers with good pungent
odors such as turps, and petrol. By the time
they reached water about 10 bottles down
their sense of smell had become so telescoped
GETTING EVEN WITH BERLINER.
“Eh, Bernstein, Berliner’s an enemy of yours, vasn’t he?"
“My vord! I hate that man!”
“Veil, you gif me ten bob and I’ll go and borrow five pounds off
him.”
that frequently they called it kerosene;
none named it correctly. One old dame, when
she came to sheep-dip, said, “It’s that
wretched whisky.” When she did reach
whisky she said “That’s hair-restorer.”
* jJ; * , *
“Gouger” : The carved totem-pole or image
is a representation to the native mind, in
the same way that a picture is to us, of an
actual scene. But the totem to the native is
also a thing of life, reason and superhuman
power. It has guided the life of his ances-
tors, is guarding his own life and will look
after his soul after death. If the totem of
a man happens to be any particular living
thing, he will never kill a species of it; nor
will he eat any of it, even when the thing
has been killed and cooked by other hands,
unless ceremonies have cleansed the departed
and still hovering spirit of the totem. This
belief in the affinity of the totem-spirit
reaches heights of phantasy. I have met
“shark men” who will dive in waters infested
with their particular breed of shark-totem,
with the utmost confidence that they will not
be harmed by the totem-recognising shark.
# $ *
“Sea Nomad”: Recently a Daru magis-
trate bewailed the loss of a favorite tom-cat.
For reasons conveyed to him he pulled out to
a visiting cutter and implored two Frenchies
aboard to restore his cat. Volubly they pro-
tested that they had no knowledge of the
spirited animal. They hadn’t, either person-
ally, but they’d eaten the body. Hung up
by the cook for five hours to get rid of the
smell, then stewed slowly in wine, tom-cat
had provided a delicious dish. For som»;
reason the meat must not be tainted with
water, and for some other reason a she-cat
is not good eating.
:js *
“Chinta Hati” : Is “Pfella” (B. 19/l/’2B)
serious when he says that nine out of ten
Malays cannot shin up a tree as well as the
Australian abo.? lie even goes so far as to
assert that a Malay would find it impossible
to get up a tree at all! I have seen both
Ahmat and Jacky at the game of climbing
cocoanut-palms, and I will back the Malay
to give Jacky a fair start and still have
cleared the tree of nuts before the abo.
reached the top. I grant that the boot-shod
Malay of Singapore and the big cities is no
match for the abo. in, tree-climbing, but any
Malay from the Islands or the Kampongs of
the F.M.S. can get up trees with ease. Of
course, I am not speaking of palms with
toeholds already cut.
(Continued on page 25.)
FEBRUARY FILLDYKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
'Tis February Filldyke, and all the creeks
are tearing
And tumbling down the ranges to the
valley and the sea ;
Leaping o’er the high rocks, and ’neath the
green banks wearing
Earthy caves that crumble in and set the
pebbles free.
Close they press, the dripping clouds, a veil
that hides the mountains,
Spreading o’er the forest trees a gossamer
of grey,
Sometimes softly, sometimes shrill, the voice
of many fountains
Surging, spouting, splashing all along the
windy way.
And pierced with plaintive bird-notes, melan-
choly, chiding—
“ Our frail nests are broken and the baby
birds are dead”—
From damp sodden thickets where dovesi and
pigeons hiding,
Cuddle on their little feet, a broad leaf o’er
each head.
Wallabies lie close within their grassy forms
and shiver,
Cockatoos and eagles, strong white child-
ren of the sun,
Fold their wings in safe retreat above the
racing river
And wait the time in patience until the
storm is done.
Wind raves down the ravine and rushes wild
and bitter
Through my garden gate and slams it
sharply to behind—
Rain on the roof infuriate, and flowers and
leaves a-litter.
All the world is rain and wind —and all
the world is blind.
QUEENSLAND.
BLACK BONNET.


01
[ROTH EH
>r
stf
IE
rr
7
7
i£>
S**
r i
\
r , /// /?
Cr
/*
s,
■4:
Quiet Power
Drive the Senior for even a short distance and you will be
impressed by its silken smoothness and quiet, deep-lunged
power.
Six-cylinder power for every need, in an engine of exceptional
silence and flexibility.
Power that translates itself into high speed, when needed —and
into sure-footed traction where mud, sand or hills handicap less
distinguished performers.
Wherever roads lead —and in places where there are no roads —
Senior power is over-abundant for any demand.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne .
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane — Townsville .
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney,'
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
8/2/’2B


MELLOW
COOL
AND
ALWAYS
ALIKE
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
THE BEST
CIGARETTES
FOR
YEARS AT
20 for 1/6
“Carisbrook, Jun.” : On Willis Island, 300
miles off the N.Q. coast, there were six goats
living on apparently nothing. But during
the six months I was there I discovered that
at the turn of the tide the smellful ones
walked along the water’s edge eating seaweed,
jellyfish and any other titbits left stranded.
Although there is a stunted, coarse salt-
grass growing on the island I very rarely
saw them eat it, and the only fresh water
they got was by lapping up what was left
after a rainfall. They would have been living
THE FLY IN THE BUTTER.
ENTHUSIASTIC CITY GENT.: “What do you think of our harbor, Mr. Backblocks?"
BACKBLOCKS : “Not too bad, but there’s too much salt in it fer stock.”
yet had they not disturbed the nightly repose
of the island staff. They were despatched
one evening with a rifle and flung into the
sea. The staff discovered during the next
three weeks that a dead goat is even more
odorous than a live one.
* * * *
“Wang”: Is the swagman, like the black-
fellow, becoming extinct? During the recent
holidays I went by car from Melbourne to
Kooloonong in the Vic. Mallee, a distance
of 270 miles, and on the whole journey saw
but one knight of the bluey. We came upon
him sitting under a tree alongside the road
between Castlemaine and Bendigo, and 1
have my doubts as to whether he was a
genuine specimen, for, though we pulled up
in front of him to fill the radiator, he did
not put it on us for tobacco. It was the
first time I had been along that road for oU
years. When last I travelled it there were
plenty of the matilda fraternity to be seen,
and some pretty hard cases were amongst
them, too. I ought to know, for I was one
of them.
* * * *
“C. CoraP: Trocllus-fishers in Torres
Strait have made a profitable discovery. It
was the practice to work only the weather
side of the roefs for shell, it having been
found that the trochus preferred this ex-
posure to the calm water on the other side.
An island boat, however, accidentally
stumbled upon a fine patch right inside the
reefs, and the crew, keeping the good news
to themselves, brought in over 10 tons of
shell. Other boats were soon on to the good
thing, though the discoverers did their best
to choke them off. Altogether a few
thousand pounds’ worth must have been
cleaned up from the patch. Now trochus-
getters are paying attention to the inside
of reefs as well as to the outside, m the hope
that similar patches may be struck.
4c
Canar” : There is a cave in one of the
outlying islands of the Tonga group which
is the site of a curious phenomenon. Its
opening is in the form of a tunnel which
widens out considerably about 50 yards
from the entrance, the floor ending abruptly
in a chasm. Beyond this there is impenetrable
darkness. If even a fair-sized stone is
thrown across the gulf it will be projected
back as though it had struck some invis-
ible body on the other side. One theory
advanced was that there was a tremendously
strong air-current blowing in the direction
of the missile. This, however, is ruled out
by the fact that such an air-current would
certainly be felt and would be intermittent,
whereas the phenomenon is in working order
continuously. Scientists have inspected the
cave, but none has been able to explain this
curious happening.
* * * *
“Kooragai”: I found two kookaburras
fighting for the featherweight championship
alongside a bush road. On a fence near by
sat four other kookaburras watching the
combat. Occasionally they chuckled, and
now and again they raised their heads and
laughed loudly. No audience at a boxing-
ring could have been more interested thau
those Jackies. One of the combatants suu-
denly cried enough and fluttered away. Two
of the audience then charged the vanquished
and drove him off the premises, while the
other two cocked their tails and chuckled
in approval. They reminded me of a dis-
satisfied audience demanding its money back.
THEOLOGY AT BOGADUCK.
BUSH PARSON: "Can you tell me—ah—what the Good Shepherd did when he found l
any stray lambs?”
COUNTRY LAD: “It all depends, Mister. If they was earmarked ’e’d leave ’em alone."
“Ferrum”: The spider that “Sucre” mot
(B 15/12/’27) is probably a relation to the
chaps that live around South Bananaland.
They start off their webs like radio fans,
build an aerial and then suspend the business
part of the web from this. The first one I
found with an aerial strong enough to push
off my hat was a 33-ply one, but later on I
found one with 47 strands. Each strand, is
fastened separately to whatever the aerial
is anchored to, but they all converge and
become one twisted rope. The builder of the
hat-pulling web is a lean chap with a body
about Jin. long and rather long legs; these
he stows fore and aft, giving him the appear-
ance of a piece of dead stick.
# # * *
“Eromeno”: We were nearing Nindy
Gully, on our way from St. George to
Mungindi (Q.), and it was well after dark.
Suddenly ahead we no-
ticed a number of lights
between the trees. They
made the place look like
a fair ground. Plodding
on, we saw a mob of
cattle, and around them,
hanging from trees, were
40 or 50 hurricane-lamps.
“What’s the idea?” I
asked the drover. _ “Keeps
’em quiet,” he said. “You
know what Boggarrilla
cattle are like! Well,
there’s 900-head of ’em
here, and they’ve bin as
quiet as lambs all the
trip. Might use a drop o’
kerosene, but I’d sooner
do that than ’ave a mob
o’ cattle do a night breakaway—’specially if
they’ve come off the Carnarvon Ranges.”
* ❖ *
“A. Jack” : Dr. Macgillivray, the ornitholo-
gist, is sending out appeals for something
to be done to stop the wholesale slaughter-
ing of birds by shooting parties. Now that
country parts which, by reason of distance,
used to be sanctuaries are easily accessible
to people in motor-cars the western country
in N.S.W, has been almost shot out. Being a
lover of feathered life, the doctor nearly went
mad when he found 50 swans, useless as
game, shot and left to rot on the banks of
a dam. So scarce has wild life become in
the back places that “sportsmen” are com-
pelled to shoot at road-signs unless a lonely
homestead can provide a tame galah or other
pet for wanton destruction.
* * * *
“T.S.G.”: Some years ago two friends
decided one fine Sunday morning to fish
near some precipitous rocks on the other
side of Cable Bay (M.L.). They started
off in an ordinary rowing-boat without an
anchor, and shipped a large boulder as a
substitute. The piece of rock served its
purpose well, as the sea was as smooth as
glass, and soon the two men were engaged
hauling in fish. One noticed presently that
a pair of whales, spouting vigorously, had
turned into the bay. It was an unusual
sight, and they watched it interestedly until
the whales made in their direction, rose to
the surface about a couple of hundred yards
from the boat, and then dived. One, as it
came to the surface, was so close to them
that the fishermen could see the barnacles
adhering to it. A deluge of spray soaked
the occupants of the boat to the skin, and
their little craft rocked dangerously. I hen
the boat lurched forward, and with the
speed of a destroyer the boat was being
towed out to sea. The second whale in
rising had got the improvised kellick tangled
in its fluke and, thus frightened, dashed for
the outer blue. The man at the bow, fear-
ful that their strange tug would bottom,
shouted to his companion for _ a knife. It
was thrown to him and fell into the boat,
but fortunately he recovered it in time and
cut the painter strand by strand. It parted
with a crack and they were free!
* * * *
“Veigo”: Four of us were fishing one
night on the beach at Bulli (N.S.W.) when
one of my mates caught a five-foot grey-
nurse shark. We were struck by its unusual
girth. The reason for this soon became
apparent, for Mrs. Shark immediately gave
birth to 17 young ones. The arrivals were
about a foot long and perfect miniatures of
their mother. They were born at half-minute
intervals and shot into the world with con-
siderable momentum, tail first. Finally the
fish ejected what appeared to be a soft
egg about the size of a duck-egg, and having
the semblance of a yolk inside in a pale-
yellow ill-defined streak. This has always
puzzled me.
* * * *
“Momokeni”: Is “Nikko” sure that the
wooden trough found in the Solomons
(B.- 19/l/’2B) is an eating bowl? Such
troughs are common in the Papuan
Delta, and are women’s canoes. I used one
for years in my bathroom. Painted inside
with bath enamel, and with carved
edges and canoe designs on the outside, it
made a high-toned bath. In the Gulf Divi-
sion, where heavy surf rolls continuously on
the sand beaches, these short trough-like
canoes are in common use as one _ man
canoes, and will ride on the waves when a
longer canoe would be swamped.
* * * *
“Maunga” : “A breath of musk and hazel
frcm scrublands wet with dew,” sang a
Bulletin poet recently; but where is the
musk to be found nowadays? There was a
time when one could hardly strike a creek or
bit of swamp in the Maoriland bush with-
out coming across the haunting scent of
the tiny yellow’-flowered plant, and it had
an honored place in the homes of scores of
settlers. I have not seen a sign of it for
years; and a while back a friend, well versed
in gardening matters, told me that it had
practically disappeared and that the now-
rare specimens were scentless. Gan any Abo.
reader solve the mystery?
THE RIDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I take my last road, it is not true I
go
By dark and quiet waters, moaning sad and
low
At the sides of the vessel the arms of Charon
row.
No. I will go gaily, just as here I ride,
With the leather’s creak, the bit’s chink and
the scents that here abide,
Mingling with the odor of clean warm hoof
and hide.
If there should be no horses in that twilit
land,
No silken muzzle seeking for my ready hand,
I should be more fretful than the gods could
understand.
Of what avail red wine drunk in Elysium,
The honey that the blooms yield to the
bees’ hum,
Light on the asphodel—if you did not come?
Of what avail to me white dryads, leaf-
arrayed,
Murmuring with dove-voices in dim colon-
nade,
If you were not there browsing somewhere
in the shade?
I should be cloyed with the fruit of the
amber comb,
I should be sick for the purple, the red trees
of home,
And the long wire fences, and the smell of
dark loam.
Nay, there will be tall trees, and soft-purling
through,
The sound of many waters, and birds in
the blue.
And exhilarant motion, old comrade, and —
you !
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers. ,
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to me
Service Department. ,
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from tne
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. .
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time. . .
The Service Department has come to the conclusion that it ought to be giving
more help to wireless users and would-be users. To this end it has added to its
great chain of professional helpers two radio experts, whose opinions and knowledge
will be available to readers who forward inquiries.
Wants-
Experienced competent man as lessee or
share-farmer, bananas, virgin scrub; profit-
able market; no capital required; Mackay
district. —3298.
Returned soldier (Imperial) requires work,
motor-driving and repairs, or anything.—
3262.
Lady, 16 years’ experience company secre-
tarial work, accountancy, etc., thorough
knowledge office management, desires posi-
tion, N.Q. or Fiji—324l.
Gentlewoman wishes supplementary work
few hours nightly. Free from 6 p.m. Would
act as cashier in caf6, do proof-reading,-
accounts or anything of similar nature. Ex.
testimonials.—32s3.
Man about to open a small steam laundry
in Sydney desires to know what machinery
would be required, together with details of
working costs and any other helpful hints.
—3215.
To sell wheat-and-sheep farm, W.A. wheat-
belt; 1350 acres of first-class and good,
heavy forest country, sheep-proof fenced
throughout; nice house; dams; all working
plant, horses, etc.; walk in walk out; £3
17s. 6d. per acre; terms. —3279.
To sell two £25 bonds (first issue) of
N. Z. Perpetual Forests, paid up to £l6 ss.
each.—32B6.
To buy Australian books, newspapers, etc.,
published prior to 1840. —3288.
To buy second-hand astronomical telescope
(reflector or refractor), with stand; will go
up to £12.-3289.
To sell Myer’s 6in. “Bulldozer” pump,
capacity about 3600 gallons per hour, com-
plete with 70ft. 3in. piping; cost £7O; sell
for £25.-3295.
To lease banana land 50 miles from
Brisbane, N.C.L. Scrub, high, right
aspect. (Direct to L. Burnham, Woodford,
Q.)
To get in touch with reliable Sydney re-
tailer who would purchase direct from grower
about 2cwt. choice dried apricots and, later,
dried nectarines and prunes.—3224.
To , purchase used Australian postage
stamps (or other countries) in any quan-
tity. (Direct to G. It. Byham, Empire House,
St. Martins-Le-Grand, London, E.C.1.)
For sale, 16 copies Outdoor Life ending
June, 1927 ; also 12 books on shooting.—
3246.
Eureka vacuum-cleaner and noiseless type-
writer for sale, both in excellent order.
(Direct to No. 1, Cromer Flats, Phillip-
street, Sydney.)
Whereabouts of James Gorman, last heard
of in Newcastle (N.S.W.) ; may be in Bourke
district. Mother anxious. (Direct to Mrs.
Mary Gorman, 8 Mugdock-road, Milugavie,
near Glasgow, Scotland.)
Information Sought.
Has the moon any effect (either physical
or mental) upon a person sleeping out-of-
doors, with the moonlight shining directly
upon him? I have heard, it has a tendency
to wrinkle the skin of the face.- —3225.
There is no scientific evidence that moon-
light has any effect on man other than mak-
ing him sentimental.
Tell me some way of developing under-
developed calves of legs; big, healthy girl
otherwise; treatment or massage. — 32o6.
The extraordinary calves of professional
dancers are living witness to the fact that
stage dancing is the finest method of
developing the calf. If an instructional
course of that is not possible, vigorous tennis
is a convenient and satisfactory substitute.
You may have noticed that the legs of our
best lady tennis players are far from thin.
Massage, whilst being helpful after exercise,
is quite inefficient as a means of muscular
development.
(1) Brief biographical details concerning
Thos. Bracken, author of “Not Understood.”
(2) Did the Commonwealth Government
have his body returned from M.LJ — 3275.
(1) Tom Bracken was born in Ireland
in 1843. He came to Victoria in 1855, and
settled in Maoriland in 1869. He was
engaged as storekeeper, miner and journalist.
In 1881-84 he represented Dunedin in Parlia-
ment. He died on 16th February, 1898.
(2) The Commonwealth Government was
not constituted until two years after
Bracken’s death. There is no record of his
body having been brought to Australia.
(1) Where is gypsum to be found in New
Bouth Wales, and, what is it? (2) How
does snake poison act on a human being, and
how does it work on a dog? Will tobacco
cure a cattle-dog which has been bitten by a
black snake? (3) Is there any pitch in Aus-
tralia? How is it got and what is it worth?
—3120.
(1) Chemically, gypsum is a crystalline
formation in which every 4 molecules of cal-
cium sulphate are combined with 2 mole-
cules of water. It is used largely in the
building and allied industries as a constituent
of plaster. The most extensive gypsum depo-
sits in N.S.W. are at Ivanhoe, on the newly-
opened Broken Hill railway; there are also
large deposits in South Aus. and Westralia,
(2) Venomous snakes are divided into two
classes with respect to their venom, the colu-
brine and the viperine. The action of the
poison of the former is to paralyse the respi-
ratory nerves and so cause death by a gradual
slowing-down of the heart’s working ; in other
words by suffpcation. The venom of the
viperine class directly attacks the red cor-
puscles of the blood, causing these to dissolve
and bringing about a condition known as
“haemolysis.” There is no actual difference
between the action of snake venom on a
human being and on a dog, except that the
latter would probably suffer more and suc-
cumb more quickly if the venom were in a
fatal dose. Tobacco is not of the slightest
use as an antidote, and if enough of it is
given it may even hasten death. (3) Pitch
is a mineral deposit of organic nature and is
found generally in large “lakes,” especially
in Trinidad, in the West Indies, from where
the bplk of the world’s supply comes. It is
mined in the ordinary way and exported in
casks or similar containers. Pitch “springs”
have been reported in Australia, but defi-
nite confirmation is lacking. Puller infor-
mation could be obtained from the N.S.W.
Mines Department or, from the office of the
Geological Survey.
A cure for “bumble foot ” in fowls. The
swelling is in thy pad of the foot, and a black
spot hardens and in tune can be 'lifted out .
It leaves a hole in the foot and in time
hardens again? —3172.
If taken in the early stages, as soon as the
swelling appears, a cure is more easily
effected than when it shows prominently.
The first step is to place the bird in a pen
on a soft covering, such as straw, or grass,
without any perch. The foot should be
bathed in hot water, as hot as can be borne
by the hands, and then painted with tinc-
ture of iodine daily until the swelling either
disappears, or if in an advanced case, comes
to a head, when it can be lanced by an
incision running in the direction the toes
point, not crosswise. The foot should after-
wards be bandaged up, a little Venice turps
being applied before doing so, and the
bandage renewed every couple of days until
healing. When properly healed a dry core
usually forms in the centre, which can be
taken out and the flesh will heal again. The
wound should not be opened up after the
first lancing.
(1) Where is Easter Island — area, nature
of vegetation, principal industries and how
reached? (2) Reference books? —3l6B.
(1) A dependency of Chile, separated
from the easternmost of the Polynesian
archipelagoes by more than 1000 miles of
open sea. The island is 12 miles by
about five. Soil mostly decomposing lava;
apparently of recent volcanic origin. It has
no trees and few bushes, but most of the
surface is covered with grass. The inhabi-
tants cultivate bananas, sugar-cane and
sweet potatoes. There are a few cattle and
sheep. The only regular communication
with the outside world is the yearly visit of
a schooner from Chile. (2 > “Easter Island,”
by Wm. Churchill, and “Easter Island,” by
Reginald C. Enock; also see Stewart’s
“Handbook of the Pacific Islands.”
Is the subjunctive mood dead? Would the
average writer now use “if I am” instead of
“if I be”? —3185.
No, it is not dead. “If he were a thousand
years old he couldn’t be wiser” ; but “if he
was 21 on tlmt date then he should have
had a vote.” But the F'owlers (“Modern
English Usage,” which had better be con-
sulted), warn writers and speakers against
“survival subjunctives.” (1) They are liable
to make the matter dull. (2) They are liable
to be wrong and encourage others in the
same way. (3) They sound, and often are,
pretentious.
(1) The name and address of a reliable
English literary agent? (2) Whether , in
the event of no sale, any charge would be
made? (3) What is the usual commission
charged on MSB. sold? —3186.
(1) Curtis, Brown, Ltd., 5-6 Henrietta-
street, Covcnt Garden, London, W.C.2. (2)
No reading fees, and no expenses except
typing, cabling, etc., at author’s request.
MSS. are returned if stamps are enclosed.
(3) Ten p.c. on sums obtained.
How to make a powerful terebine to be
used as a paint drier? Are there any good
Australian umbers, siennas and ochres avail-
able direct from the mines? —3000.
(1) Terebine drier is manufactured from
red lead, litharge and manganese, which are
dissolved in mineral spirits with a small
percentage of linseed-oil by heating to 500 deg.
F. (The percentages vary.) At the same
time, it is hardly practicable to manufacture
terebine without proper equipment. (2)
Supplies of siennas and ochres from local
sources are not obtainable in commercial
quantities, but quantities of excellent umbers
are on the market, and are calcined by local
grinders. Mineral Earths, Ltd., Botany-road,
Alexandria, handles this class of material.
Is any money to be made by song-writing?
Can I get help in harmonising? —3o72.
Many men who have had song successes
in England find it impossible to place com-
positions in Australia; the Red Page printed
several articles recently drawing attention
to this. Still, if you can compose a catchy
air you may win through. A song success
in Australia can bring in £4OO. A song that
sells in England and America can bring in
£40,000. Any first-rate professional musician
can harmonise your melodies (at a fee gener-
ally varying from two to five guineas, accord-
ing to the song). He will also tell you
whether your composition has any chance of
success.
What careers are open for N.S.W. boys of
18 who have passed the Intermediate but
failed in the L.C. exam? —3ll9.
Call and see the Director of Vocational
Guidance, Department of Education, Sydney.
His expert officers will give the very advice
you seek, after they have made exhaustive
inquiries and tests.
The rate of “pulse” at different ages? To
what extent does it vary in cases of sickness?
—3123.
The beat varies. What is normal to one
is abnormal to another. The range is as
wide as 40-90 to the minute. A baby’s
pulse reacts more quickly to illness than that
of an adult. Broadly speaking, a baby’s pulse
is quicker, and an aged person’s pulse is
slower, than that of a person of 21. The
ordinary person has a pulse of about 72.
In sickness the pulse undergoes wide varia-
tion and may rise to 60 or sink to 50. Yet
a pulse of 50 may be perfectly normal, and
one of 72 abnormal.
Are the will forms you can buy at a
stationer's valid? I am in a small business
and wish to leave everything to my wife.—
3149.
In the case of a simple disposition a will
form would be sufficient. Take care that the
bequest is made on the same sheet as the
attestation clause and comply most carefully
with the requirements of the latter. Sta-
tioners’ wills are frequently lawyers’ prizes.
Is there any circulating library in Aus-
tralia whose lists include “limited editions”
or other rare and unusual works not obtain-
able in the ordinary lending library? —2936.
We don’t know of one. “Limited editions”
and other rare works are too expensive to
be stocked by lending libraries, which aim at
covering a wide field at the lowest possible
cost to subscribers. Occasional volumes can
be inspected at public libraries.
(1) Names and addresses of, say, two
English agencies which would “place” Aus-
tralian MSS. and photographs intended for
publication in British journals? (2)
Roughly speaking, what would be their fees,
more particularly in the matter of “placing”
photographs? —27l4.
(1) If the photographs illustrate the MSS.
any literary-agent would handle them; if
so, try J. B. Pinker, Talbot House, 9 Arun-
del-street, London, W.C.2; Curtis Brown,
Ltd., 6 Henrietta-street, London, W.C.2 ; and
Mark Meredith, 67 Dale-street, Liverpool.
If not, firms that syndicate photographs
alone are Central News, Ltd. (Illustrations
Dept.), 5 New Bridge-street, London, E.C.4;
and General Photographic Agency, 173-5
Fleet-street, London, E.C.4. (2) Generally
from 10 to 15 per cent, on results.
Particulars concerning the career of a
pugilist named George Hough. With whom
and where did his more important fights take
place?— 27s7.
Neville Forder’s “History of the Aus-
tralian Ring” mentions that George Hough
became champion of Australia by his defeat
of Ned Chalker on Feb. 10, 1846. The fight
lasted 46 rounds. Hough had previously
beaten George Bailey, who had overcome Dan
Chalker. He held the title for a little more
than a year, when he was knocked out by
Ike Read at Middle Harbor on April 6,
1847, in a match for £2OO a side, which went
for 57 rounds (with bare knuckles, too) and
lasted lhr. 36min. His last recorded fight
was with the famous “Black” Perry, a huge
negro convict, who defeated him in 54min.
Names and addresses of Australian musi-
cal and music-trade magazines. Their price
and when published and how obtainable? —•
2841.
Australian Band and Orchestra News
(monthly, 6d.), 276 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne ; Australian Musician and Music
Trades Journal (m., 6d.), Pomeroy House,
14 York-street, Sydney; the Australian
Musical News (m., 6d.), 276 Collins-street,
Melbourne; Musical Australia (m.,
6d.), Conservatorium of Music, Macquarie-
street, Sydney; Australasian Phono-
graph Monthly and Music Trade Review
(m., 6d.), 24 Bond-street, Sydney. Copies
can be had by direct subscription, or from
local newsagent.
I have a heavy brass portable engine-room
lamp-guard. It is obviously navy pattern,
and is reputed to have come from H.M.A.S.
Australia. How can I make sure? —3004.
Mr. Wm. Goodall, of T. M. Goodall and
Co., Ltd., Kent-street, Sydney, who was one
of the syndicate interested in the disposal of
the fittings of the Australia, says it would be
almost impossible to identify the lamp, and
he doubts whether even the naval authorities
could tell. It could, however, be referred to
Mr. Goodall for inspection.
Information Supplied.
3130.—A good keeping paste can be made
by mixing flour with cold water to make a
smooth cream. Then add boiling water, stir-
ring constantly until the paste is the de-
sired consistency. Add one small teaspoon-
ful of alum and a heaped saltspoonful of
powdered cinnamon. Mice will not eat cin-
namon-flavored paste.—“Mirwa.”
2944.—Glenugie probably is called after the
glen at the head of the TTgie River, which
runs into the sea between Peterhead and' St.
Fergus, Aberdeenshire, Scotland. —“J.G.S.”
3133.—T0 make boot polish (black), take
1 pint turpentine, 41b. beeswax, ljoz. bicar-
bonate of potassium, lloz. nigrosine, 2 pints
boiling water. Cut up beeswax finely, melt
it in the boiling water and then add the
potassium. Dissolve the nigrosine in a little
cold water, and stir it in thoroughly, boiling
gently for a while and stirring. Take the
mixture off the fire and add the turpentine.
Stir until the mixture creams, then put into
tins. If at any time the polish hardens in
the tins, soften by adding turpentine. The
cost is about 3s. 6d., and the mixture will
fill 35 tins.—“Mirwa.”
2766. —In March, 1924, at Longreach, Q.,
during very heavy rain, fish were deposited
on the streets of the town. I picked some
of them up and found they were to
3in. long, and very much alive.—“ Pisces.”
2952. —To clear rust from water-pipes
without taking them out of the ground, turn
the water off, empty the pipe-line and let
it dry—say overnight. Disconnect a tap
and then turn the water on, and the rust
that has fallen through shrinkage will be
washed out. This process should be re-
peated until water is free from rust and
flows satisfactorily. But if gravitation will
allow it and you can disconnect the pipe
at the supply end, pour through as many
buckets as you can of boiling water with
about a handful of washing-soda added to
a bucket. Pour this through when the pipe-
line is dry, and when yon connect up again
give the pipes a good run of cold water
before you start to use it again.—“RXß.”
2007. —To make a fish-trap: Take three
iron hoops 4ft. in diam., and two pieces wire-
netting each 12ft. 6in. by 42in. wide. Join
netting together to make a strip 7ft. by
12ft. 6in. Fasten this around hoops to form
a cylinder, one hoop at each end and one in
the middle. Close one end with netting.
Then construct a funnel 3ft. 6in. long, 4ft.
diam. one end, lOin. to 12in. at other.
Fasten this in trap at other end to make an
entrance, using wire stays along funnel to
make it rigid, and cover with netting.
Leave wire stay ends jagged at small enl
of funnel. Attach a piece of strong wire
to each end of trap to tether by. This trap
will catch fresh-water fish up to Blb. or 91b.
A larger trap can be made with four hoops
and a funnel at each end.—“ John Quill.”
3020. —To count sheep: Stand midway in
a 9ft. gateway facing the mob. Let the wool-
lies string out on each side and lean over to
that side on which they tend to rush. With
both hands mark them off by fives as they
pass. Have a tally-keeper and call out the
hundreds for him to notch on a stick. —
“Pick.”
Does Anybody Know?
How to prevent borers from attacking full
and empty wine and beer casks? —3250.
How to make beer from rice or malt? The
brew I make hasn’t a “head” on it. —3218.
(1) The best method and district in N.S.W.
to trap king parrots during the open season
(2) Do they breed in captivity?—3ooB.
A recipe for making honey mead? —3243.
How to cement a galvanised-iron tank? —
3281. .
Best lining for a galvanised iron shack?
Would have to be easily transported owing
to inaccessibility of location ?—3285.
A way of fitting an axehead so it will
hang on in all weathers? —3266.
How to stain and polish a jarrah-wood
floor without using varnish?—3272.
Brief Answers.
R.A.M.: “Old Parr” whisky is imported
by Sandenian, Ltd., 52 Pitt-street, Sydney... .A.P.:
Information concerning the New Guinea goldfields
can be obtained direct from the Home and Terri-
tories Dept., Canberra, F.C.T. Details were given
in the “Wild Cat” Page (B. 7/7/’27) E.L.G.:
(1) When next-of-kin of a deceased intestate are un-
known and the estate is reported to the Public
Trustee, he takes the necessary steps to appoint
himself administrator, and after realising the estate,
paying debts, testamentary expenses, etc., adver-
tises for next-of-kin in Australia and also in the
country of birth of the deceased. (2) The question is
too indefinite to answer precisely. If the legal
requirements not complied with are deemed essen-
tial the action probably can be invalidated. (3 and
4) The Public Trustee does not file accounts. His
accounts are audited by the Auditor-General. Full
information and statements of account will be sup-
plied to anyone concerned in any estate under his
control. (5) If the deceased were an uncertificated
bankrupt, his official assignee would be entitled to
claim the estate M.J.: (1) If they were shares
in a limited liability co., you are liable to the
full amount of the share. (2) The co. doesn’t “pro-
mise” 10 p.e., whatever an irresponsible salesman
may have done. (3) There are good chances, but
large risks in it... .A.M.E.: The Chief Veterinary
Officer N.S.W. Metropolitan Meat Industry Board
states that tuberculosis in sheep is exceedingly rare.
For all practical purposes it is non-existent among
sheep in Australia and Maoriland. .. .Gouger: See
“Wild Cat” column last week... .H.M.: Bitmead’s
“French Polishing and Enamelling” (3s. 6d.),
Field’s “French Polisher’s Handbook” (2s. 2d.) and
Hasluck’s “French Polishing (Is. 2d.). Dymock’s,
Sydney... .J.0.D.: Lyre- whip- and bell-birds are
absolutely protected in N.S.W., and persons destroy-
ing or capturing them are liable to a severe penalty.
King-parrots are also protected, but there is an
open season in respect to this bird from February 1
to June 30 in each year... .C.J.K.: Books reviewed
in the “Satchel of Books” column can be obtained
at Angus and Robertson, Dymock’s or other leading
Sydney booksellers. If out of stock copies could
be ordered for you. (2) The names you mention
are not booksellers, but the London publishers of
the books reviewed... .D.J.M.L.: Get in touch
with any of the following Sydney firms: Gibson,
Battle and Co., Ltd., 535 Kent-street; Lascelles,
Parrington, Ltd., 30 Grosvenor-street; Parke, Lacy,
Hardie, Ltd., 60 Clarence-street; and Wilson’s
Agencies, Ltd., 174-190 Dowling-street, Sydney
C.L. J.: The parties to a marriage which is cel-
ebrated by a district registrar in N.S.W. must sign,
before the registrar of the district in which the
intended wife ordinarily resides, a declaration that
they conscientiously object to be married by a
minister of religion or that there is no minister
available. Marriage by special license does not
obtain in N.S.W. It is usual for- one of the parties
to interview the registrar and fix an appointment.
Fee: £1 ss. Two witnesses would be required. The
Registry Office covering your district is situated at
112 Park-road, Hurstville H.D.G.: (1) It is
possible for trained teachers of cookery and needle-
work to obtain temporary employment in the Vic.
Education Department. There are usually a few
vacancies to be filled. Application with full details
of qualifications and experience as a teacher should
be addressed to the Secretary, Education Department,
Melbourne. The present minimum salary is £lBO
per annum for teachers 21 years of age and over.
(2) Still awaiting reply from the N.S.W. Education
Department. Answer will be given in this column.
... .C.8.M.K. : (1) The address of the Waterman
Piano School is Columbia Building, Broadway, Port-
land, Oregon, U.S.A. (2) Have been unable to locate
the address of the Waterman Publishing Co. in
any of the directories consulted. The American
Trade Commissioner, 66 Pitt-street, Sydney, will make
inquiries in America on your behalf if you so desire... •
N.T.M.: The Federal Invalid and Old-age Pensions
Act provides that where an applicant has accumulated
property, exclusive of the home in which he or she
permanently resides, the rate of pension shall be
subject to a deduction of £1 per annum for every
complete £lO by which the net capital value of
the accumulated property exceeds £5O. ... J.C.W.:
The King Peter Coronation Commemoration Stamp,
known as the “death-mark stamp,” which you sent,
is catalogued at 3d. and is sold in Sydney at 2d.
.... J. 8.: None of the stamps are of any commercial
value L.J.C.: The tennis courts under the control
of the Municipal Council of Sydney are lighted' by
five 1500 c.p. 240-volt gas-filled lamps, suspended
over the centre of each court. The approximate cost
is 255. per lamp and 455. for the fitting. The
current consumed on each court is 7.5 kilowatts.


A New
Sydney-Melboume Record
CREATED
on
by ALEX. FINLAY riding a
2.49-h.p. Standard Stock Model!!
ffisztxsg Nof; m £y
a record broken—but a record "CREATED"! This is the except.onal accomp .shment of Alex.
Finlay, who not only showed remarkable stamina, but proved the consistent reliability ot
Motorcycles.
The actual travelling time was 1 7hr. 48min.
the fastest time ever made on a low-powered
machine, and the weight carried, 1 3st. 51b., was
more than that of the machine itself.
Actually, the performance is one of the most
remarkable in Motorcycle history, and it is but
fitting that the record should have been created
on so worthy a mount as B.S.A.
You may own a 2.49-H.p. machine if you desire.
It is exactly similar to the Stock Model used on
this record-breaking performance, and over 90
miles to the gallon is easily obtainable on this
machine.
You are invited to examine the B.S.A. range for
yourself. It offers better proof of B.S.A. worth
than can be indicated in mere words.
■
ALEX. FINLAY.
FIRST
RECORD
ever made on a
Low-powered
Motorcycle.
EXISTING
RECORD
held by a
3.49-h.p.
machine
beaten by
2.49-h.p. B.S.A.
B.S.A.’s Latest International Success
The Longest Road Race in the World, from Durban to Johannesburg—the
famous South African T.T. Race—was won on a 4.95 O.H.V. B.S.A. with
BENNIE LOADER as the victor.
These WORLD-WIDE Successes are Big
Reasons why YOU should ride a B.S.A.
LOWEST
TERMS
Convenient
Deposits
Greatest
After-sale
Service.
i
B
S
9
*«
m
1
i
m
&
V 5
r/
m
4b
s&i
The B.S.A.
Range Boasts
a Model
for Every
Purse and
Purpose.
B.S.A. 2.49-h.p.
De-luxe Model
£62/10/
Lead the way on a BS A
Send for catalogue and particulars of Easy Payment Terms
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. V
Q’LANDJ
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney .
VICTORIA- F//VZ-/I Y BROS. MOTOR CYCLES
PTY., LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUS.-*/. N. TAYLOR & CO. , LTD.,
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide »
WEST AUS.- MORTLOCK BROS., LTD.,
890 Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA —sim king pty., ltd.,
63 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia,
D. Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative ), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.


r
ŕ
ŗ
Money
Makes
the
Skins
worth getting. It’s not
what they are, but
what they realise
which chiefly concerns
you. Top values are
what you want. See
that you get them. For highest possible prices—
consign Rabbit, Fox and all other Shins to
ytfINCHCOMBi-:, CARSON
LTD.
Salesmen,
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
□
VI
53
wi w
1004
METAL GATES AND FENCES
Cyclone Metal
Gates Stand the
Test for
Dependability
and Durability
ř
Many Designs
are Illustrated
in the Cyclone
Catalogue
POST FREE
Fig. 118.—Cyclone "S.C.” Paddock Gate, 3ft. 10in. high.
Made to fit 10ft., lift, and 12ft. openings.
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE CO. PTY. LTD.
COMMERCE BUILDING, ASH STREET (Off 350 George St.), SYDNEY
189-191 William Street. Melbourne. Exchange Buildings, PMe Street, Adelaide.
PEAPES
—for men AND their sons.
Throughout the whole year
Peapes maintain an even
level of such moderate prices
for the highest quality goods
that reductions would be im-
possible.
It is because of this that the
habit of shopping at Peapes’
is one which ensures far
better values.
George Street
(Opp. Hunter Street),
Sydney.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
DRY WORKING AND WHEAT
DISEASES.
“Burrum”: Take-all and flag-smut are so
common in a dry-sown or previously dry-
worked wheat crop that many farmers think
that they are put there or encouraged in
some way by dry working. Actually, these
diseases are not encouraged by dry working,
but they are more effectively discouraged by
moist working. The spores of the fungi need
moisture for germination. Once germinated,
disturbance by cultivation will kill a certain
percentage; or if they find no host to live on
they die. Hence when wheat is sown dry the
same shower that germinates the grain gives
the spores an equal start, and they find a
lodging quite handy. It is not to be expected
that one moist working will kill them all
or that one dry one will kill any. The
farmer knows with regard to wild oats that
he cannot kill them in one working. Also
because wild oats are more prevalent after a
dry working, he does not say that they are
encouraged, but that they are discouraged
less.
N.S.W. WHEAT STANDARD.
“L.M.” : This year's fixation of the f.a.q.
wheat standard at OOjlb. compares favorably
with that of recent years, although it is 21b
lower than the record of 62|lb. in 1907-08
and 1918-19, and lib. worse than last year.
For the standard 222 samples were weighed.
CANADIAN WHEAT VARIETIES.
“E.M.207” (Canada) : The Dominion Cere-
alist reports favorably on Garnet wheat,
which is comparatively new to us, being
just two years past the experimental stage.
The first carload of Garnet delivered in the
Western Prairies yielded 40 bushels to the
acre. It matures two weeks earlier than the
standard Marquis, and for this reason is
likely to gain an important place. However,
it is weaker in the straw than Marquis, the
flour is cream tinted, and in districts where
rust is prevalent it is very liable to infec-
tion. To some extent this drawback may be
overcome by early planting, and where rust
is avoided Garnet yields both quantity and
quality.
A newer wheat, Reward, is at the moment
engaging attention. Maturing between Gar-
net and Marquis, its yield is slightly less
than that of Garnet, but it has several good
qualities. Flour derived from Reward is
without blemish, the straw is the strongest
of the local wheats, and all this year's experi-
ments show it less liable to rust than any
other variety. Gaining first for a bushel of
spring wheat at the Chicago Exhibition
and first at the Toronto Exhibition in
August, it has been much in request by
farmers. All available seed has been dis-
tributed to 400 or 500 farmers who are co-
operating with the Government in experi-
ments.
INTENSIVE CULTURE.
“Silentio”: “Sylvester’s” par. about grow-
ing haricot-beans on the cornstalks (B.
19/l/’2B) reminds me of a small paddock
I once saw near Ipswich (Q.). The
plot was about two acres and was planted
with corn, three rows very close together,
then a space of eight feet, and so on across
the paddock. On the headlands were planted
cotton and those queer Bananaland plants
rosellas. In between the corn flourished
alternate rows of pumpkins, melons (both
water and pie), grammas, busli-marrows and
rock-melons. In the centre were some of
the best spuds I’ve ever seen, and several
rows of corn carried good loads of haricot-
bean vines just beginning to bear. The whole
outfit was tended by an old German farmer,
who with his sons kept a dairy going and
had many acres under the usual farm crops.
The little paddock was the old chap’s special
care.
HOW TO KEEP MEN ON THE LAND.
“Lucerne Flea” : One man in my district
has had 11 lads in three months. His neigh-
bor has had a local lad for years, and both
’are satisfied. The wages paid don’t cause the
difference—they are usually the same
throughout a district.
I admit there’s only one thing to do with
some so-called farmhands, and that’s to
sack them. But a good lad or man is worth
keeping, for he’s very hard to replace. First
of all. it’s a bad mistake to roar and growl
at a man who is obviously doing his best.
Then again, try to work systematically. The
idea that all sorts of irregular hours have
to be worked on a farm is on a par with
other old fallacies, such as the one that
pigs fatten quickest and are healthiest
cooped up in small sties, up to their bellies
in tilth, or that a farmhand shouldn’t have
a decent room to sleep in, or have his meals
at the same table as the rest of the family.
So try to keep the man’s working hours as
regular as possible. You yourself can potter
about till all hours if you like—it’s your
farm.
Another thing that is very discouraging to
the farmhand is to come home tired after a
long day with the team and then be set to
cutting firewood or pumping water. It’s all
work, aud these little jobs are the straws
that break the camel’s back. Small petrol-
engines are fairly cheap to purchase and run,
and one of them on a circular saw or pump
can do in five minutes what takes half an
hour by hand. Yet some cockies regard it as
a sign of laziness if a man doesn’t like doing
work of this kind, or says pointedly that he
doesn’t see the necessity for tramping miles
daily after the harrows when a couple of old
seed-drill wheels, an axle, an implement seat,
two buggy springs and a few pieces of timber,
plus a couple of hours’ work, will make a
harrow-cart.
A harrow-cart, besides saving miles of use-
less tramping, enables a greater acreage to
be covered per day, because when a man's
riding he doesn’t mind how freely the team
steps out. When he’s plodding on foot he
hangs back on the reins when lie gets tired
to slow the horses down. I’ve often done
it, as a lad.
I can see both sides of the question, as I
put in long years as a farmhand before I
became an employer, and I honestly think
tliat, instead of being a sign of laziness, it
shows that the man is more progressive than
his boss when he starts to suggest little
devices for saving labor. I still remember
how one stupid brute I-worked for when a
boy roared at me because I suggested he
should let me make a cart to wheel the pig’s
food down to the sties instead of humping it
in buckets. Labor-saving devices are the
best of investments, and give a man more
time to devote to the all-important jobs of
cultivating and harvesting. For many years
I could not afford high wages, and yet I
never had any trouble to get good men,
simply because I did all in my power to cut
out irregular hours and useless hand-labor.
It has paid in the long run. I’ve never yet
had a man leave me in the lurch, or parted
from one without mutual goodwill.
EASTERN DORRIGO DEFENDED.
“Yufu”: I can’t let “W.S.F.” (B.
19/l/’2B) get away with his poor opinion of
the Eastern Dorrigo. If he likes to ask any
of the engineers who put through the line
to Top Dorrigo about the soil being clayey
they will open his eyes. The bottomless red
soil of the Eastern Dorrigo made that line,
for its length, one of the costliest in the
State. Another thing, the timber is nearly
all scrubwood, and I’d like to see poor scrub-
wood land.
As for grasses: Paspalum grows where
paspalum was sown. The remaining “rub-
bish and bracken” is knee-high natural
grasses. The winter, I’ll admit, is severe.
But the ridges abound with natural grasses,
and the lay of the land gives abundance of
shelter from “W.S.F.’s” westerly winds.
When the railway line was opened a few
years ago very little of the eastern plateau
was settled, but of the farmers there then
I heard not one grumbling. Their cream
cheques headed the list at the Coramba but-
ter factory, which drains the fertile Orara
valley. As for deserted farms —let “W.S.F.”
name a few.
In reference to the farmers who reckoned
the Government would have done better to
have kept the land as a timber reserve, I
can name one who, in 1919, refused an offer
for 18s. on the stump for over 3,000,000 feet
of pine on his selection. I emphatically
uphold the Eastern Dorrigo as a place with
a grand future, both for dairying and for
produce. %
FODDER TREES.
“Furphy”: Don’t be persuaded to plant
tagosaste (“tree-lucerne”) if its possible fod-
der value is of any importance to you.
a hedge, for ornament or shelter, it is well
enough ; but as a fodder it is almost value-
less. In the first place it is not a lucerne,
and its nutritive qualities are practically nil.
Stock will sometimes pull at it if given access
to the trees, but once cut it and no animal
will eat a mouthful —not even the rabbit,
who is not fussy about his greens in time of
drought.
The Forestry Department used to grow
tagosaste for distribution, but I believe it
is not now described as a fodder plant.
The willow and kurrajong stand alone
as fodder trees; the latter, if grown in plan-
tation form and cultivated regularly, makes
wonderfully rapid growth. It will grow more
in one year with cultivation than in five
years without, and will more than repay
cost of tillage.
TIIE EARLY-MATURING ABERDEEN-
ANGUS.
“W.P.D.”: If Queensland cattle-breeders
hope to establish a regular trade with
Britain in either frozen or chilled beef they
will be wise to obtain all the information
they can as to the Aberdeen-Angus breed.
So far, the “doddies” have not become as
popular in Queensland as their outstanding
merits as beef cattle deserve. The demand
in the Cold Country is for young, evenly-
fleslied animals, not over two or two-and-a-
lialf years old, carrying meat of fine, texture
arid good flavor, and with a minimum of
waste, and in these points the A.-A’s. excel.
Queensland is at a disadvantage with
Argentina in point of distance from British
markets, but nothing can be better than our
native grasses on, say, Cooper’s Creek or
the Diamantina, and the costs of fattening
are not excessive. Aberdeen-Angus cattle
will do splendidly on such country, and will
be ready for market much earlier than Short-
horns or Ilerefords. If the railways ter-
minating at Quilpie and Yaraka were ex-
tended somewhat further west, and the stock
routes better watered, young fat bullocks —
either A.-A’s. or their crosses —could be
brought to the coast in good condition.
Being polled, they suffer much less from
bruising than the horned breeds in the
trucks.
If breeders will secure high-class Aber-
deen-Angus pedigreed bulls and cows they
will obtain a beef cattle, either pure or
crossed, that will give most satisfactory re-
sults if there is proper organisation for
killing, shipping and marketing. The
success of A.-A’s. and their crosses at
British shows and in America, both north
and south, has been wonderful, and their
popularity as an early-maturing and profit-
able breed all over the United Kingdom and
Ireland is rapidly increasing.
HINTS ON DROVING CATTLE.
“B-Gar”: The main thing in droving is
to see that your charges get food and their
daily drink. Driving cattle is a fatal error,
and must be avoided where possible. In
cases of dry stages, of course, it can’t be
avoided, but on an ordinary route in a decent
season eight miles a day is far enough to
travel any mob of cattle.
Get your cattle off the camp at daylight,
and let them poke along and feed at their
leisure. When they have filled themselves
they will want to camp, and if the weather
is hot they will rest for three or four hours,
and then look for a drink. Once they have
had a drink they will feed contentedly until
sundown, when they can be moved on to
the night camp. Cattle carefully handled on
the road will show no inclination to rush,
but if they are bustled over long stages
look out for trouble. Fat bullocks are very
little trouble on the road, provided feed
and water are plentiful, and they have been
known to put on weight over a trip lasting
six months.
JUTE IN WOOL.
“Ted R.”: It will surprise the average
grazier to learn that nearly £500,000 is
spent annually in removing deleterious fibres
—principally jute—from wool. There are
only three ways that jute can get into the
wool during the baling process, and as far as
possible this should be prevented. When the
woolpack is put in the press long strands
of jute threads are often to be'seen inside;
these can easily be cut off. It is a good idea
to give the woolpack a shake (outside the
shed) before putting it in the press.
If the corners of the pack are being cut
down to make a neater bale, the short
threads should be taken out of the corners,
otherwise they will get into the wool.
When sewing, do not scatter the waste
ends of thread about the floor. Hang a
small bag or a kerosene-tin bucket near the
press, and these waste ends can be thrown
in it, thus preventing their getting swept
up and baled with the wool.
PRESSING THE CLIP.
“Fred Rich”: Always bale your clip to
the best advantage. Although this may
seem needless advice, a surprising number of
small graziers make the great mistake of
being careless with the handling and press-
ing, their one desire being to get the wool
away. The bales should be as even as pos-
sible in weight, and the best way to ensure
this is to count the number of fleeces when
filling the first bale. About 3361 b. is a good
average weight for fleeces, but of course
bellies, pieces and other oddments are some-
times muoli heavier. When the first bale
has been weighed the presser has something
to guide him.
Always avoid, if possible, having mixed
bales, but when, as in the case of a small
clip, this is unavoidable, see that only wool
of about the one value is put into the
pack. The bale is always valued on the
lowest wool in it, and the man who puts two
or three different classes of wool haphazard
into one bale will be pounds less in pocket
than if lie had acted with judgment.
WHY BLACK SHEEP?
“B-Gar”: In probably every flock all black
and partly black lambs appear. Cull the
ewes that bore the lambs, and next lambing
others will show up. Wliat's the cause''
Cases have occurred where a ewe with
twins will have one white lamb and the other
black. Breeders have tried to breed black
sheep alone using what they reckoned were
pure-breds, but even after extensive culling
piebalds were in the majority, and the idea
was abandoned, lias any sheepman got any-
thing to say on the question?
FIVE LAMBS AT A BIRTH.
“J.G.”: “Te Hipi’s” crossbred ewe that
gave birth to five lambs (B. 8/9/’27) is
not a record-breaker. Three or four years
ago a similar-bred ewe owned by Doheny
Bros., of Chintin, near Wallan (Vic.), gave
birth to five lambs, and in less than 12
months produced five more.
MONEY. TALKS.
“D.J.W.”: Those who recall the furious
attack made lately on the alleged coarseness
ot Australian wool and the remarks on the
superexoellence of the S’African would be
interested m the market reports published by
the Natal Witness on December 10 last,
l op price for the day was 27d. for a “verv
nice wool grown at Merrival (Natal). “This
clip was of good quality and was prepared
tor market in a very attractive manner."
A very nice line of fine crossbred from
Northern Transvaal fetched 2G|d. per lb.”
Evidently our Bradford friends don’t mind
booming South African wool, but hesitate
about paying high prices for it. The Mel-
bourne Age of the same date (December 10)
contained reports of the sales of the Gee-
long brokers at Melbourne, with fleeces mak-
ing up to 37fd. and lambswool up to 50d
Everyone knows the pains to which Aus-
tralian growers and brokers go to make
the wool attractive to buyers, but it would
be asking a lot to have us believe that the
make-up of the wool alone is responsible
tor a margin of lOfd.
HARD LUCK WITH BANANAS.
“Nitric”: “N.K.’s” sad experience with
cotton-growing (B. 19/l/’2B) is on a par
with my own venture in bananas. Having
seen the great bunches in the Tweed district,
and better ones in the black scrub soil of the
North Coast (Q.), I decided to try the red
volcanic soil at Woody Point (Q.‘). The
first crop was a boomer, and the citrus-trees
I tried at the same time came on wonder-
fully. Then the bananas began to look a
little wishy washy. One fruit expert diag-
nosed trematode, another bunchy-top and a
third both. Anyhow within three and a half
years of planting first-class suckers I tore
them out. At the same time the red scale
ruined the citrus fruit. Then I bought
banana suckers from a non-bunehytop area.
They crashed too. Pawpaws, as a side-line,
bore wonderfully for two years and then
withered off. Grubs and bugs of every shape
and size skittled the trees, and what they
left the flying-foxes and wallabies finished
off. The only crops that stood up to the
pests were passion-fruit and persimmons.
RASPBERRIES FOR PROFIT.
“Louis Gunn”: “Veronal” (B. 5/l/’2B)
is right. There is money in raspberries, but
not quite as easy money as he seems to
think.
A raspberry plot must have rich, friable
soil, good and frequent rainfall, east or
south slope and shelter from fierce heat and
hot, dry winds. There must be easy access
to a good road or the railway.
Cultivation must be continuous to keep
down weeds. Picking demands abundance
of cheap labor, and must continue from
dawn to dark, owing to perishable nature and
f,ast ripening of the crop. Cost of picking in
Vic. is 12s. per cwt., cost of punnets |d. each.
“Veronal’s” 2d. and 3d. per lb. belong to
the dark ages. To-day’s prices are 6d. to
81d. per lb. f.o.r.
As to selling, one can dispose of private-
order lots for home-made jam, or cater for the
punnet or lib. carton trade with cafes that
provide raspberries and cream. The grower
must develop his own market. The jam
factories are supplied at very low rates by
Tas. growers.
Arrangements for transport and distribu-
tion must be made and rigidly adhered to
by the grower. The berry-growers of Silvan
and Wandin (Vic.) have plans worth learn-
ing, which they would pass on if asked.
(Continued on page 31.)


Studebaher now holds every official
American Automobile Associations
stock car record for endurance and
speed- regardless of power or price/
&)
For the first time in motor history, the one organisation holds EVERY American
STOCK CAR record for endurance and speed—a most unique testimonial to
the performance and stamina of Studebaker and Erskine cars particularly in a
country where competition for such honours is so keen as in America.
Commander Feats
APRIL 5—A stock Studebaker Commander
established the amazing new record of 5000
miles in 4909 minutes, at the same time estab-
lishing 4 new distance records and 6 new time
records.
SEPTEMBER 2—A stock Studebaker Com-
mander established a new transcontinental
record from New York to San Francisco of 7 7
hours 40 minutes, 2\ hours below the previous
record.
SEPTEMBER s—Two stock Commanders first
and second in 7 5-mile race at Atlantic City
Speedway.
SEPTEMBER s—Commander Sport Roadster
climbed to summit of Pike’s Peak, the world s
highest motor road, in 22 minutes 40 seconds —
a feat never before accomplished by any car in
its price class.
SEPTEMBER • 20—Three Commander Sport
Roadsters first, second and third in 75-mile race
at Charlotte. N.C-
OCTOBER 6-7—A Commander Sport Roadster
established a record of 1814.96 miles in 24
hours, covering 142 miles more during the
period than the car which previously held the
record.
OCTOBER 6-7—Commander Sport Roadster
creates record of 1000 miles in 796 minutes 7.4
seconds.
OCTOBER 6-7—The Commander makes record
5-mile run at average of 74.877 miles per hour.
OCTOBER 6-7 Commander establishes 10-mile
record at average speed of 75.062 miles per
hour.
OCTOBER 6-7 Commander makes a 50-mile
record at a speed of 75.748 miles per hour.
OCTOBER 1 8-NOVEMBER 4—Two Commander
Roadsters at Atlantic City Speedway completed
25,000 miles in less than 23,000 minutes, setting
new world’s records for speed and endurance.
OCTOBER 1 8-NOVEMBER 4—A Commander
Sedan completed 25,000 miles in less than
25,000 minutes
Director Feats
OCTOBER 10 Director Sedan established re-
;ord of 1482.96 miles in 24-hour Speed and
Endurance Test for cars in its own price class
at Atlantic City Speedway.
OCTOBER 11—Director Sedan won 15-mile
Speed Test for cars in its price class at Atlantic
City Speedway.
ErsKine Feats
APRIL 16—Erskine Sedan won gold medal and
most points in London-Land’s End Reliability
Trial.
JUNE 3—Erskine Sedans captured first and
second honors in London-Edinburgh Reliability
Run.
JUNE —Three Erskine Tourers each won gold
medals in Barcelona (Spain) Regularity Test—
a test of performance covering 437 miles.
JULY 22—An Erskine Tourer won gold medal
for perfect performance in Sydney R.A.C.A.
Reliability Trial.
An Erskine Sedan set a record for the trip from
Santa Fe to Buenos Aires 347.5 miles in 9
hours 48 minutes, over a road in bad condition.
JULY 15 An Erskine Sedan set a record of 49
hours 45 minutes for a circuit of the province of
Santa Fe, Argentine.
OCTOBER 12-13 —Erskine Sedan won 24 hours
Speed and Endurance Test for stock enclosed cars
at Atlantic City Speedway.
OCTOBER 13 Erskine Sedan won 1 5 miles
Speed Test for stock closed cars at Atlantic City
Speedway.
Why not enjoy the unduplicated performance and reliability that only
a Studebaker or Erskine Car can give you ? Drive one to-day and prove
to yourself the undeniable truth of this claim.
(3^
Australian and New Zealand Distributors :—-
NEW SOUTH WALES.
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Limited, Sydney
VICTORIA.
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd.,
41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
WMBBO.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.)i
Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts.. Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.,
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important towns.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Millingens, Limited,
42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Adams, Ltd., 152-154 High Street,
Christchurch.
STUDE BARER


—and now
Alemite Transmission Lubricant
Mo. 2
tTP
IMEMI
A. new discovery in gear lubrication
Why motorists should ask for it by name
Here are cold facts. Recently Alemite
engineers brought out a new type of
gear lubricant —the result of three
years’ research.
Famous engineering laboratories first
gave this new lubricant exhaustive fric-
tion heat tests. In every test it set new
low friction records. (See chart).
Then it was tested under actual driving
conditions in well-known, standard
makes of motor cars. These tests showed
what it will do in your car. They re-
vealed a startling fact.
With Alemite transmission Lubri-
cant Cars Actually Delivered 1 to
iy 2 more miles per gallon of petrol
than with the old types of grease or
compound.
In just a short time Alemite Transmis-
sion Lubricant has started a new habit
among thousands of motorists. For the
first time they are asking for a gear lu-
bricant by name —the same as they do
for motor oils.
It means a saving of from 40 to 60 gal-
lons of petrol every 10,000 miles. Fur-
thermore, it naturally gives your car
more power, and keeps your gears in
perfect condition —easy to shift at ex-
tremely low temperatures. AlemiteTrans-
mission Lubricant will not “channel”
when cold, and thus never allows the
gear wheels to turn without a protective
film of lubricant between them.
This remarkable lubricant costs a little
more, but once you try it you will agree
that it is worth the difference. It con-
tains only the highest grade of oil, so-
lidified by a new, exclusive process —
without fillers or acids. That is the secret
of its unique
power. It is
made for mo-
torists who
want the best.
Use it in your
car every 2,500
miles. It is the
surest preven-
tive of “rear-
end” troubles.
This chart shows the results of
a friction test of Alemite
Transmission Lubrication
made in the laboratories of the
Armour Institute of Technol-
ogy. Note how, compared with
ordinary gear greases, Alemite
kept by far the lowest friction
throughout.
If your service
station cannot supply you, write to
any of the distributors listed below and
you will be taken care of promptly.
THE BASSICK MANUFACTURING
COMPANY
DIVISION OF STEWART-WASNER
Chicago, U. S. A.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS
Bennett & Wood, Ltd. • • • • 284 Pitt St., Sydney
E. A. Machin & Co., corner Elizabeth and Beckett Streets, Melbourne
Cornell, Ltd. ......... Adelaide
C. Atkins & Co. Perth
Motor Supplies, Ltd Brisbane
© 1927, T, B. M. Co. Reg. U. S. Pat. Off.
Transmission Lubricant


r
ŕ
ŗ
ř
r
ŕ
ŗ
DRESS SHOES
The photo shows a trim Abbey
dress shoe in patent leather of a
special grade, with a tough, light,
welted sole. It slips on easily, sets
snugly at ankle and heel. The lac-
ing arches naturally as does the
foot, the low-cut sides add to the
comfort of the shoe. Stocked in full
and half sizes—each in three fit-
tings: narrow, medium and wide.
PATENT LEATHER (welted sole),
50/-
DANCING PUMPS
Similar type, but with lighter
pump soles and lower heels. These
are the lightest type of man’s shoe
made easy and restful after
heavier footwear and splendid for
dancing.
PATENT LEATHER (pump soles),
286
Order by post : Specify
width needed and also ask for a
supply of the correct Abbey Polish
(6d. per tin).
Write jor a copy of the 40-page catalogue
in colors.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
L5B. SYDNEY
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Healthy Hair Adds
To Youthful Beauty
Frequent shampoos are necessary
to prevent dandruff and consequent
loss of hair. Before shampooing
anoint with Cuticura Ointment, then
cleanse with a suds of Cuticura Soap
and hot water. Rinse thoroughly.
Nothing better for keeping the scalp
and hair clean and healthy.
Soap ls.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co.,Sydney,N.S. W.”
IMF** Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
/C*M I
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL &C Lio.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Slreel. Sydney.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union dub and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from C/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manageb.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Royal Easter Show
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
NINE DAYS.
2nd t 9 11th APRIL, 1928.
FIVE NIGHTS.
£14,000
PRIZES
£14,000
ENTRIES CLOSE:
EXPORT BUTTER AND CHEESE 23rd January to 13th February
WINES 28th February
HORSES (Including Trotting Events) 3rd March
CATTLE sth March
POULTRY, PIGEONS, CANARIES, AND CAGE BIRDS . . 6th & 7th March
DOGS Bth March
AGRICULTURE (including Fruits, Apiculture, and Cookery) 9th March
DAIRY PRODUCE (except Export Classes) 9th March
SCHEDULES AND ENTRY FORMS ON APPLICATION.
Endeavor House, 33 Macquarie Place, G. C. SOMERVILLE, Secretary.
Sydney.
-U
■
n
G 1
l m
The Cigar of generous size and weigh
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d.
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/C (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
(Apply to H. Henderson, secretary, Silvan,
Vic.) , , .
The best variety for private jam lots is red
Antwerp. For punnet sales, Great American
(for early fruit) and Thornless Fillbasket
(for medium season) are the best.
The principles above outlined apply to
loganberries, gooseberries, red or black cur-
rants, strawberries and lawtonberries.
AUSTRALIAN NUTS.
“Jerso”: Everybody who knows its value
wonders why the Australian farmer, or even
the speculator, has not exploited this coun-
try’s very own nut to a far greater extent.
It is known by different titles, according to
locality. I’ve heard it called Australian nut,
Queensland nut, Mullumbimby nut, bush nut,
Bauple nut, Popple nut and even polar nut.
Its botanical name is Macadamia ternifolia.
It grows quickly, lives for centuries and pro-
duces a profitable crop after the seventh year.
The thick shell is no great drawback in these
days of powerful nut-crackers. Anyway, thin-
shelled varieties are being propagated in
several centres along the Northern Rivers,
and at the Hawkesbury College breeding
operations are in hand with a tree the nuts
of which sport a shell that is not thick
enough to withstand the strain of a strong
pair of fingers. There is one variety of the
nut that bears all the year round and never
fails. One tree is said to yield lOcwt. of
good nuts per annum.
TOMATO GRUB.
“R.M.”: Not for many years have tomato-
growers in N.S.W. been so seriously set back
through disease and worm devastation as
they have been this season. In the early
stages wilt had to be fought; then, with the
setting of tomatoes,' came the grubs. The
wilt can be arrested by treatment with lime
and sulphur; but the grub pest is more
serious. Moths are the cause of the spread
of grubs, and spraying is the accepted way
to combat them. At the first signs of the
grub pick the affected tomatoes and burn
them; this gets rid of the pest and kills
attraction for plant lice, etc. Spraying with
nicotine or arsenate of lead is only recom-
mended when the vegetable is very small;
and then the tomatoes should be washed
well before being used. Many moths will be
killed if a naked light is placed among the
plants. An experienced grower pins liis faith
to the smoke of a grass-fire at dusk when the
wind is favorable. Proper staking, whereby
the plants are kept well off the ground, will
always pay. While the leaves or vegetables
have contact with the ground, slugs and
snails reap their harvest; but if the staking
is well done there is always room for puffing
lime among the plants.
A CATERPILLAR STORY.
“Eureka”: “The Welkin’s” method (B.
32/l/’2B) of ploughing a furrow round a
field as a means of protecting crops from
caterpillars is not always effective. During
a plague of caterpillars in southern Monaro
this method was tried, but the caterpillars
were not to be beaten so easily. They made
themselves into a living cord, and when
the string was long enough crhwled down the
furrow and up the other side. Once over
they tightened up and formed a bridge for
the rest to walk over. Lime was then placed
in the furrow, and this was for a time effec-
tive, but the caterpillars were too numerous,
and when the dead bodies filled up the trench
the rest walked over the top. A 10-acre
paddock of corn at Mt. Darragh was eaten
out in one night by them.
POULTRY FOR ORCHARDISTS.
“Milltrack”: “Momokeni” (B. 5/l/’2B)
attempts to explode my “bubble of profit”
of £1 per week per hundred birds (B.
15/12/’27) with a few dud shells. His
main point—the failure of the Repat.
scheme —has no bearing on the subject. The
fact that the Government dumped scores of
land-hungry men on to five-acre poultry runs,
equipped with little capital and, in most
cases, less practical knowledge of the in-
dustry, and that they failed wholesale,
doesn’t prove that the orchardist going in
for the game as a side-line would fail.
I did not suggest the keeping of 2000
birds as a general rule for orchardists. I
advocated a careful start in a small way
with the best of stock obtainable. As to
the labor and expense involved in building
runs and houses throughout the 30 acres
(or 10) to ensure the thorough scattering
of the 2000 fowls (or 200), no intelligent
orchardist would clutter up the landscape
with sheds and wire-netted runs, and it is
entirely unnecessary. A few light, portable
coops set under the trees for the fowls to
roost in at night and shifted on every week
or so is all that is necessary. Only by
keeping the fowls on free range in as com-
pact a body as possible can any benefit
accrue from insect slaughter and manure
droppings. As to picking apples by lamp-
light, the orchardist in the case I mentioned
employs three men all the year round to
work his orchard and help with the chooks,
and pays their wages and all other orchard
expenses out of the poultry profits.
CURING MANGE IN DOGS.
“X2X” : Superior to tincture of iodine for
mange in dogs is a fairly strong solution of
mercury perchloride, say from one part in a
1000 to one in 500 of water. It penetrates
more quickly and readily, kills the parasite
with greater certainty, and does not have any
evil effects. It should be applied with a hand-
ful of cotton-wool several times a day, and
the application continued until there are no
signs of the disease. Or. if the dog is a small
one, it may be immersed in the solution two
or three tipies a day. The dog’s sleeping
quarters should be washed out with the solu-
tion frequently to destroy any mange para-
sites. Care in the use of the mercury per-
chloride should be exercised, as it is a deadly
poison.
AUSTRALIAN ASPARAGUS.
“Hop Scrub”: There’s a good thing in
asparagus in suitable districts. The plant
likes rich, deep, warm alluvial soil and has
a preference for coastal regions, though it
will do well on some inland river flats.
Trenches two feet deep and reeking' with
stable manure are all right for garden plots,
but the stuff can be grown in sizable areas
on more modern lines. Grow the crowns
from seed, and at transplanting time have
the paddock in good tilth to the depth of a
foot, and set the crowns out in drills 9ft.
apart and ISin. between the plants in the
row. Cover the plants to within Gin. of
the top of the drill, and do the rest of the
filling gradually with the cultivators. Don’t
make any cuttings the first season, but clear
the tops off when they die down to prevent
seeding. Useful varieties are Mary Washing-
ton, Barr’s Mammoth, Palmetto and Con-
over’s Colossal. As the plantation ages, help
it out with salting, and fertilise heavily.
There is a good local market for asparagus
fresh or canned. We spend a wad annually
on the tinned product from Uncle Sam.
Why not keep the cash at home?
FLAX-GROWING IN VICTORIA.
“B-Gar”: “W.P.D.” (B. 15/12/’27) writes
of the flax-growing experiments of an ex-
A.I.F. man at Drysdale (Vic.). This is by
no means the first attempt at flax-growing in
the southern State, as about 25 years ago J.
McCallum, until lately pastoral manager for
Edmund Jowett in Q., attempted flax-grow-
ing in the Warrnambool district, but it
proved a failure. It doesn’t follow, of course,
that flax can’t be grown elsewhere. Aus-
tralia is a big place.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Pick”: When thistles or Batliurst-burrs
rear tlieir heads in the oats or wheat crop
the handiest home-made implement to use
against them is a shear-blade fastened at an
angle of about 60 degrees to a slender pole,
the point turned backwards towards the
handle. Without handling or back-bending
the prickly trespassers may be cut at the
roots with a backward pull of the cutter, and
then hoisted over the fence or into a barrow
with the same implement used as a hook.
“VL7” No doubt it is well, as “J.G.”
says (B. 8/12/’27), to throw everything
that will rot, animal or vegetable, on to the
compost heap, but make sure there is no
danger of disseminating disease. This pre-
caution is very necessary. If possible a. good
layer of mould should be alternated with
vegetable matter, and the heap stirred occa-
sionally. Nor should the common practice
of adding lime be followed, as it tends to
adversely affect the nitrates, as also, in heavy
doses, the bacteria.
“Mirwa”: Before sowing seeds of pump-
kins, melons, etc., dig a hole about 2ft.
square and 18in. deep. Put in well-rotted
stable or cow manure till Gin. off the top,
then put in Bin. of soil, thus forming a
small hill. The hillocks, in the case of pump-
kins and melons, should be 10ft. apart. Put
two pumpkin seeds, bush marrows or melons
in each hill; cucumbers will take three
seeds to a hill. Keep the ground well
watered, giving two good soakings a week in
preference to a daily sprinkling. Then the
roots will go down deep and find abundance
of food amongst the manure.
“Villers-Brett.”: To cure strangles in
horses, put a hot brick or steamed bag, on
which a teaspoonful of eucalyptus has been
poured, in a nosebag and keep it on the
horse until he begins to cough. Then
remove for a short interval and readjust,
using judgment as to the time the bag is
kept on.
“Hatter”: A quick effective method of
greasing harness. Take the harness com-
pletely apart and scrub with warm water
and harness soap to remove all sweat and
dirt. Then take a pan of boiling water,
which should be set on a stove to keep it
boiling, and pour on it a quart or so of
harness oil. The straps of the harness may
be dipped into this, and the whole operation
completed in a very short time. As soon as
the leather strikes the oil on top of the water
a film is formed which prevents the water
from soaking in, but the heat forces the oil
to penetrate deeply.
“Fido”: A dog’s dew claws are useless
appendages which, if allowed to grow, are
always getting caught in something. Parti-
cularly should they be removed on working
dogs, many of which have them on both hind
and front legs. Cut them off close to the
leg when the pup is about ten days old,
using a pair of scissors and making sure
that the whole of the claw and bit of sur-
rounding flesh is removed. No further
attention is necessary, as the wound will
heal in a very short time.
“Yufu”: If you suspect any of your cattle
of having tuberculosis isolate them immedi-
ately. Pick a small barren section, well
away from your main grazing, for the
quarantine, and, if the suspects are infected
and have to be done away with run a fire
through the section and so thoroughly clean
it. A hollow, side-racking cough, with the
beast’s head strained forward at the same
time, is generally a sign of T.B.
“M.A.M.”: For lice on pigs, dissolve fib.
soap in 3 quarts of boiling water, adding 1
pint of kerosene, stirring well and applying
while the mixture is warm. The application
should be repeated in the course of a week
to make sure that all the vermin have been
destroyed.
“Con Creet” : Few jumbueks can boast of
losing 301 b. of wool at shearing, but I
recently came across a bale containing eight
skirted Lincoln rams’ fleeces of 12 months’
growth that weighed 2481 b. On the other
hand a bale of 108 Tassie Comeback skirted
fleeces was scaled at 2711 b.
“Ken”: Is this a record? A Black
Orpington hen owned by a Chelmer (Bris.)
resident laid an egg weighing 4oz. The
circumference lengthways measured Sin.,
and the egg went 6fin. around the smaller
diameter.
“Yacko”: When “Digger” (B. 5/l/’2B)
stated that an apple-tree planted by Lady
Franklin was 100 years old he dropped in.
The Franklins did not arrive in Tassy till
1837. Governor Bligh, of Bounty mutiny
fame, first introduced apple-trees to Y.D.L.
soil at Adventure Bay in 1792. An ancient
fruit-tree is to be found at Kingscote, Kan-
garoo Is. (S.A.). It is a mulberry planted
in 1837, a\d is still bearing fruit. It is
the oldest fruit-tree in the southern State.


Mere words cannot express
their infinite superiority.
Army Club
10 for 94 CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked paper.
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
m
m
CORK
TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
“Pictures produced at Hollywood,” de-
clares a recent arrival from Los Angeles,
“are not tripe.” This should certainly be
gratifying to all staunch admirers of tripe.
According to the Sydney Sun, newspapers
are made of wood pulp. However, we prefer
to accept the more general belief that they
are made of human pulp and flappers’ legs.
Old lady (as her son is setting out to
break the motor-cycle record) : “Here, my
boy, you really must take this scarf. It
seems terribly draughty on one of those
things.”
* *
Despite the fact that there has been pro-
hibition in U.S.A. for seven years, wives
there have not yet got used to their hus-
bands coming home sober.
❖ *
For fl, a newspaper points out, a house-
wife can obtain a year’s supply of jam.
Some women seem to get a deuce of a lot of
it for the money.
A defendant in a recent assault case said
he took his wife across his knee and thrashed
her to knock some sense into her head. Evi-
dently anatomy wasn’t his strong point.
“DAM! MISHED SHAVELOY CART AGAIN.”
VALENTINE.
Darling! Although you have left me now,
And tears are bedewing my lids;
Remember, I’ve kept all your letters, you
cow—
And you’ll pay for your breaches with
quids!
* *
Half a loaf’s better than none—as the
wharf-laborers say.
The worst about the tale the man brings
home at 1 a.m. is that his wife won’t take
it as sober fact.
H-- *
At Parramatta (N.S.W.) three men were
recently fined for selling lysol without a
license. The heartless magistrate refused to
hear their plea that, total strangers, they
mistook Aus. for U.S.A.
*
Many women take birth control very
seriously. But even more seem to be inter-
ested in girth control.
It’s the broth of a boy who most often
falls in the soup.
* *
It is reported that boxers are about to
form a union to protect themselves. This
is probably the outcome of a recent engage-
ment at the Stadium in which one boxer de-
liberately hit his opponent.
* *
“If they would only look ahead,” says a
lecturer, “our young men would realise the
danger in not adopting a good trade and
sticking to it.” That’s true enough. We’ve
had Lord Mayors'who began as newsboys.
*!* *!”
Perhaps everyone would be a lot happier
if our politicians hung together.
* *
A newspaper estimates that about one
person in every twelve in Australia owns a
motor-ear. The others want -to know why
it is only every fourth year that is given
a special name.
* *
She made the pace—
So you’ll infer
That’s why the men
Ran after her.
* *
Kicked in the face by his horse, a group-
settler near Perth recovered the sight of an
eye. This, however, is not a record. We
know thousands who have had both eyes
opened by dead horses.
A band that won a contest
in Queensland recently was
conducted by a dentist. There
have been times when we’ve
thought dentistry was con-
ducted by bandmasters.
* *
In a Melbourne court case
a woman who had been mar-
ried 21 years and had seven
children described herself as
a “gallery girl.” It is under-
stood that only her youth
debarred her from rising to
the chorus.
* *
When Nicholls, the local
idol, scored a century in the
recent inter-State match at
Sydney, many of his admir-
ers, listening-in throughout
the Hawkesbury district,
drank liis health. And that
represents little more than
nine-tenths of the useful ser-
vice wireless performs for
humanity.
* *
According to Sir Oliver
Lodge the time is coming
when the earth will stop
spinning and the moon will
crash into it. We, however,
have enough faith to believe
Mussolini would not permit
anything of the kind.
* *
“Geneva,” says a news-
paper-writer, “is the cradle
of peace.” It hasn’t been
exactly a howling success so
far.
North Sydney boasts a man 81 years old
who has been playing cricket for more than
03 years. He has only to play for another
seven years to be sure of a place in a Test
team.
* *
“My love is like a red, red rose,” sang
the tenor.
“Brute!” thought his wife in the stalls,
using her powder-puff viciously.
❖ *
One has only to look at these immigrants
to see how they cling to their home ties.
*
OUR SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Can you tell me how to get paint off my
hands? —2196.
There is no sure way; but some people
have succeeded with this and other slow-
moving lines by advertising them.
* *
There are excellent hopes for Australia’s
future so long as our young men continue
to support Australian maids.
Some men are born great, some achieve
greatness, and some grate.
❖ *
Ma Grundy, most unreasonably,
Attacks the modern damsel’s dress—
Still, with each month that passes by
The ground of her complaint is less.
* *
“Scotland,” a recent arrival from that
country points out, “is a long way from
Australia.” Still, we understand a fair num-
ber of its people are very near.
* *
“What,” asks a newspaper, “was probably
the first natural product of Australia ex-
ported to England?” We should say that
probably it was a request for a loan.
NO CHANCE OF MIXING ’EM NOW.
“Why, Mary, you’ve shingled closer than I have!”
“My word, yes. Boss bin able tellit difference between
us new all right.”
VISIBLE MEANS.
She wore a garter. One could see
No burden it supported ;
But just above a shapely knee
She wore a garter one could see.
Was it to hold up you and me
(And other males assorted)
She wore a garter? One could see
No burden it supported.
VICTOKIA.
MACESS.
THE BIRD.
Quoth Bill, his paper folding up, "My word!
To think those Waratahs should get the bird
Is far from pleasant.”
“What’s that?” demanded Jim in wild amaze.
Said Bill: “Here’s what the blanky cable
says:
Before from Sandringham they went their
ways,
The King, in memory of their displays,
Gave each a pheasant.”
N.S.W.
T. T. R.
THE POOL OF SILENSE.
For a moment the heart of Ralph liashley
sank with forboding.
Persued by his enemies, Hot upon His
Heels, lie had taken Refuge in the Temple
of the Hills, hoping to Elude them all.
Imedetely he Realised he had walked into a
trap. Scaling to the tower above the Main
Court of the Wierd building, he looked around
him. On the Track he had come he saw the
evil Her Vonn Braken approaching with his
followers. Vonn Braken had Not Been
thrown off the Scent but had guest His
Retreat. Well he knew that the German
Fiend would Show No Mercy to the man
who rivaled him in his Search for the Lost
Horde of Jems.
But this was not all. On the brow of the
presipice which Roared behind the Temple
he saw a multitude of black figgures which
he reckognised as the Folowwers of Prince
Yasmish.
They wished to Destroy him, because he
had helped his friend Prince Yamyam in his
persuit of the Throne of the Indian Emm-
pire of Chota Hazri. With anxious eyes he
watched their movements and then he shiv-
ered.
With levers made of saplings they were
striving hard to disloge a Massive Rock
hanging imedetely over the Temple. They
had watched his Retreat and intended to
Crush him to Death.
And he knew that even if he Escaped that
Doom the shock would Explode the Store of
Dynammite he had placed in the Temple to
help his Search for the Jems and he would
be Blown to Bits.
Hardly had he Realised this before another
danger presented itself. Away to the right,
across the ckasm, he saw the camp of the
Priests, who were angry because the day
Before he had driven them out of the Temple
after they Resisted his aprocli. One of them
was on sentry with a Gun in his hand look-
ing intently at the window, which at that
Side of the Temple looked over the Ckasm,
at the bottom of which gleamed the Pool
of Silense. When he decended to the floor
the priest would see him and propably Fire.
But decend he must, if a Way of Escape
was to be found. So he did. He aproched
the door to the Far Room where the Tiger
of Vengense was kept to gaurd the Sacred
Treasure. He aproched the Door eautiusly,
hoping the Savage Animal might be Asleep.
But, no! He heard a growl, a scraping of
Paws at the door, which told him that it
was death to enter.
At that moment, with a thud, the door
of the Temple gave way, and Vonn Braken
rushed in at the Head of his Murderus
Crew. Directly he saw Our Hero his rifle
went to his Shoulder to shoot. A quick
glans round showed Ralph that the Sentry
Priest who had him in full view through the
window was also about to fire; a roar from
the tiger told him that escape that way was
Immposible, and a grating noise from above
Indicated that the Great Rock was about
to fall.
Brave as he was, Ralph Rasliley had to
admit that it was a Moment of Peril. But
the Bold Hearted Youth did not despair.
His brain worked quickly.
With a Lightening Movement he threw
the door of the Tiger’s Room open. With
a roar the tiger sprang.
But he did not Seize Our Hero in his
Ravening Jaws.
No. Quick as thought Ralph dropped to
the floor and the bullet from Vonn Braken’s
rifle meant for him crashed into the leaping
Beast. But it did not Check its Rush; and
the Crule Claws bore him down whilst the
Jaws in their Death Rigger Closed on the
Villian’s Throat. Instantaneusly the bullet
from the Sentry Priest’s gun, ripped into
the tigers’ side, killing him more Completely.
The Priest hardly lived to
see what had hapened. Ris-
ing simmiltaneusly Our Hero
caught the rifle as it fell
from the hands of Vonn
Braken and with a single
action it went to his shoul-
der, as he discharged the
Second Barel and the Sentry
Priest toppeled over the
cliff.
Almost as swiftly as the
bullet Ralph Rashley leaped
through the window, pausing
only for a instant to steady
his dive into the Pool of
Silense. In that same In-
stant there was a rending
Roar as the mighty Rock
crashed onto the Temple
smashing it into Dust; and
then an even more Teriffic
Roar as the Dynammite ex-
ploded, and it Seemed that
All the Earth went up in
the Air. The Explosion
was so teribble Indeed that
a whole mass of the Cliff
Face Crumbled; and the
Natives who had ploted to
Destroy Another came
Tumbling down to Distruc-
tion.
And what of our Hero?
By the merest fracion of a Moment he
was saved. An Interested and Concerned
Figgure saw him split the waters of the
Pool of Silense, with the most Superb dive
he had ever seen.
Torn by anxiety Prince Yamyam, for it
was He, waited to see him Reappear. But
he came not. The Prince was so worried
that it gave him hardly any joy to see his
Rivval Prince Yasmish topling down the
side of the opposing cliff to Destruction,
jolted from his perch by the shock of the
explosion.
But suddenly with a shout of joy he rushed
into the water to give assistants to a figgure
strangely laden. In each hand it bore a
Casket, and another was born by its handle
carried between his teeth.
“By accident I have found the hiding
HE COULD HAVE IT ALL HIS OWN
WAY.
HUSBAND: “I wish some brainless idiot had
proposed to you before we were
married.”
WIFE: “He did, darling.”
HUSBAND: “Well, I wish he had married
you.”
WIFE: “Yes, darling, he did.”
place of the Lost Jems! It is at the bottom
of the Pool of Silense!” cried Our Hero,
for it was Indeed He.
The two friends Clasped Hands as they
ponded upon how Proverdince had killed ail
their Enemies and made them Fabulously
Wealthy with the one stroke.
HAMER JUNIOR.


Does
your mirror say:
Overworked?
1
m
SM
79
Vs
if
if
WORRY, overwork, and the strain
of modern life have a weakening
influence on your nerves and digestion.
You must do something to counteract
these disturbing effects on your health, and
you can —with Sanatogen.
Regain your former health and energy by
taking Sanatogen, the true tonicTood.
“SANATOGEN goes to the core
of welbbeing, viz,., the cells, and
builds these up into a solid' and
permanent fabric of health,”
writes a well'known English physician.
COO
Start using it to-day
SANATOGEN
The True Tonic-Food »
At all Chemists—from 3/9 per tin.
!W GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.
If time is limited, and you wish to extend your stay in the
British Isles to the utmost, you will travel there and back
by the shortest route. It is a fortunate fact that this is
likewise the most varied in scenic attractions, most equable
in climatic conditions.
On your passage across the Pacific aboard a Matson Oceanic
liner, you will call at Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii, each a quaint pic'
tureland of rare beauty. All day is spent at Honolulu for
excursions ashore. Then from San Francisco you span the
continent in 4 days—a journey of thrilling interest, revealing
matchless mountain scenery.
Crossing the Atlantic, you have wide choice of comfortable
steamship lines, including the popular cabin class. Matson
Oceanic agents will arrange your entire journey—you pay
one fare, and travel as if the trip across the world were
under a single transportation management. Stopover any'
where, if you desire.
Through fare: Sydney to London, via America, <£125 first class,
£92 second class steamer and first class rail. Round the World fare,
£235 first class, £176 second class steamer and first class rail. The
illustrated travel leaflet, “Across the United States,” is free, upon
request.
S.S. SIERRA. S.S. SONOMA. S.S. VENTURA.
Sailing every third Saturday.
IAY«©H Lift
Ml die
12 Bridge Street, Sydney. B—28
Local Agents: Mcllwraith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 William St., Melbourne; 117-119 King
William St., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth and Albany; Howard Smith Limited, Brisbane.
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
r
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
Their Uniformed Interpreters at prin-
cipal ports and stations in Europe assist
their patrons in passing Customs
examinations, registering baggage, etc.
Passages Booked by all Lines.
Travellers’ Cheques Issued.
Insurance of Baggage Effected.
Escorted Tours to Europe, etc.
Australian Farmers’ Tour to Europe.
Inclusive Independent Tours.
Summer Holiday Tours.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildinr
(Next G.P.0.).
JOHN JAMESON
* * *
WHISKEY
THE J.J. whiskey we sell to-day is
made in Dublin by the old and ex-
pensive Pot Still method—the same
method that we used in 1780. For by
no other process is it possible to
produce the same quite unusual soft-
ness and the generous full John
Jameson flavour.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
* * * *
B. Seppelt & Sons, Limited, Melbourne, Victoria
Perkins & Co., Ltd Brisbane, Q.
Milne & Co Perth, W.A.


The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital £lOO,OOO Directors:
i „ i i a Q ici John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
Issued Capital 49,161 E G Crace, Esq.; W. G. Woodger, Esq.;
Paid-up Capital 30,234 S. J. Goulston, Esq. ;R.G. H. Joseland, Esq.
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax.
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
L. G. FUSSELL, General Manager.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directohs —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Evan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
Generat, Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE . . . . . . BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the W orld, tms
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
ŕ
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Poverty
Point
“Murkah”: Probably the most astonishing
sight that ever assaulted Hobart’s eyes was
its G.P.O. one freezing morning in 1907. Dan
Barry had arrived the day before. Things
theatrical were so blue that just previously
several cos. had left on foot. Dan’s eyes
alighted on the post office, on which was a
notice indicating that bill-sticking would cost
the sticker two quid. That night, when an
attack of iceberg weather had driven Hobart
to its bed at sundown, and its toughest all-
night policemen into the deepest door re-
cesses, Hobart G.P.O. was billed as no build-
ing before or since. Even the second-storey
windows were plastered over; the edifice
flared like a bush-fire. Of course, Dan was
hailed before the magistrate, where he got
another tenner’s worth of publicity. Then
the veteran played to crowded houses for
three weeks.
“Adam Ant” : We were once playing “The
Parson’s Oath” in Rockhampton. Our man-
ager, a slip of a chap named Ted Somers,
was the parson. The heavy man of the
piece scaled about 10 stone, and in one
scene the parson had to lift this ponderous
villain from the floor and hurl him through
a window. The feat was worked with a
wire hooked on to the villain’s waist-belt,
another 16-stoncr being harnessed to the other
end off-stage. As the parson began to lift,
this unseen artist walked steadily towards
the stage-door, and the parson’s job was
easy. One night, the counterpoise, a bit shot,
tripped at the stagedoor steps and rolled
down about six feet. The effect on stage
was remarkable. Ted, as the parson, had
just given a mighty heave when the de :
lighted audience saw the villain suddenly
shoot straight up just out of reach and
remain there, kicking like a demented mule.
For once the parson’s oath sounded like the
real thing.
“Ula”: The cast of the film “Barbed
Wire” includes Pola Negri (Polish), Clive
Brook (English), Einar Hansen (Scandi-
navian), Gustav Van Seyferritz (Dutch)
and Clyde Cook (Australian). It is an
American picture.
“Lud”: As “C. 8.” (B. 19/l/’2B) sur-
mises, it was E. J. Carroll who was to
blame for overdoing the floral offerings on
the first night of “The Wrecker” in London.
His excuse, as published by one of the critics
who tackled him on the subject, will cause
a smile on this side: “We do not have
first nights often in Australia, so it is the
habit there.”
“Santander”: The large prices paid for
imported stars must make the Firm yearn
for the dear old days when a leading woman’s
screw was about a tenner. Mrs. Pat Camp-
bell recently revealed at a public dinner that
for a long while she was Lady Ursula Whif-
fler and a whole series of other weepy hero-
ines in provincial melodrama on £2 10s. a
week. She subsequently opened in a Lon-
don show at £B. During this run Lady
(then Mrs.) George Alexander saw her and
told George that the new woman was all
Paula Tanqueray w’ould need to make her
arresting, and Alexander somewhat ner-
vously engaged her for the part at a salary
of £l5. Her first night has now its special
place in history, and to mark his gratitude
Alexander did the almost unprecedented
thing of doubling her screw !
“St. John’s Wood” (Lond.) : The smartest
stage mechanism yet attempted is Piscator’s
production in Berlin of Alexa Tolstoy’s “Ras-
putin.” When the curtain rises a huge globe
is seen revolving in space, and in this the
action takes place, sections opening for some
scenes, films playing over the surface and
revolutionary crowds swarming on a trans-
parent not. This is the play that roused
the ex-Kaiser to protest at his being held
up to the public gaze. The manager read
the protest from the stage, the audience
laughed and applauded, and the performance
went on. Piseator is a Communist and an
idealist, and can snap his fingers at any
injunction. He has a full house every night.
“Flaming Youth”: The Bulletin was
moved to give Bob Chisholm a wad of hope-
ful prophecy when he drew out of the Gladys
Moncrieff co. to go abroad. It has taken him
a couple of years to find his feet in America,
but his work in “Golden Dawn” at the
Hammerstein Theatre has just been styled by
the New York press “a notable success.” The
American stage seems more Australian than
American nowadays.
TIME YET FOR TABLE D’HOTE.
“You ought to begin to think oj getting married, dear. You won't always be able to
pick and choose.”
“Perhaps not. But I’m going to live a la carte while I can.”
“Bardie”: At the New Theatre, London,
“The Wrecker,” a thriller presented by E. J.
Carroll and Harry I. Cohen, has been moder-
ately successful. The author of “The Ghost
Train,” Arnold Ridley, had Bernard Meri-
vale’s assistance in constructing it, and Her-
bert Ross has been highly praised for his
bit as a terrified signalman in the piece. A
fine actor, Herbert was the first Horace
Parker here in William F. Hawtrey’s show,
“A Message from Mars,” almost 30 years ago,
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Dorothy Seacombe,
who made her start in Australia, is winning
good press opinions as principal boy in the
Lyceum pantomime “Queen of Hearts,” sing-
ing and acting with vivacity. The “book”
is somewhat uncommon; it is the work
of Leedham Bantock, one-time comedian
with Tree and now box-office manager. This
is his eighth year in succession as panto-
purveyor.
“Cauboy”: The stage actor has to simu-
late genuine feeling afresh for every new
performance, and the more successful he is
at it the more often he has to do it. even
unto 1001 times. There is something slightly
ridiculous in the spectacle. It is almost as
absurd as if a novelist, having written one
good story, were to go mad and gravely re-
copy it yearly for the rest of his career. It
is well known that the truest' artists of the
stage dislike this necessity of everlasting re-
petition. Boucieault, for instance, gets hor-
ribly impatient with a successful run, and is
often in a bigger hurry to end it than his
management considers decent. The screen
actor, on the other hand, has only to play on
his emotions once in portraying any given
part. After that the machine takes charge
and goes on reproducing the original passion
until the negative collapses from old age.
When screen art gets out of the hands of
the moneyed oafs who misdirect it at the
moment I shouldn’t be surprised if this dif-
ference becomes very much more obvious than
it is at present. So great an authority as'
Cecil de Mille lately revealed that his
actresses no longer call for an onion when
the producer orders tears!
“St. John’s Wood” (Loud.) : George
Robey has taken the Princess Theatre for his
"Bits and Pieces” —a success in the provinces
and South Africa, but not before seen in
London. The rent, expenses and salaries
will run to nearly £lOOO a week. Robey is
one of the safe draws of the halls, and prides
himself on 40 year: of work without the need
of deputy or understudy. He has not missed
one performance since he started at 18.
His particular link with Australia is his
wife, Ethel Ilaydon, the mother of a very
clever son and daughter.
“Hamfat”: The latest Australian to be
acclaimed in America is Oliver McLennan,
the thin, snowy-haired mummer who was
with “No, No, Nanette” and made his last
boW in Sydney in “Hullo, Healo!” at the
Palace. McLennan owns a nice voice, but
was inclined to stiffness, and was given only
subsidiary “straight” roles in Australia. In
New York he has made a hit as juvenile lead
in “Rosalie.”
“Caesar’s Ghost” : An uncommon flair for
theatrical management belonged to Ilenry
Savage, just dead in America. A dealer in
real estate, he founded the Castle-square
Theatre as a side-line, and when it failed
plunged in himself to prove that lie could
do better than the showman who couldn’t
make a success of it. He produced grand
opera in English, and his opera companies
have gone all over the States and even to
London. “Cornered,” which Muriel Stan-
produced at the Sydney Palace, first saw
the metropolitan light in his theatre, now
h.q. to a most successful circuit.
“I. Phelps” : Noel Coward, who failed dis-
mally with his “Sirocco” in London, has
some compensating balm in the news that his
“La Marquise,” probably the most mechanical
of his fictions, promises to have a good run
on Broadway. The piece there has been
helped by the reappearance of Billie Burke
(Mrs. Florencz Ziegfeld) in the r6le of the
Marquise, which offers her opportunities for
some of the pranceful, picturesque acting
that does not seem pretentious in a Coward
production. Billie is no longer in her musi-
cal-comedy bloom, but she has a nice face
and fashionable physical characteristics, and
is further a warm histrionic reminiscence of
the Lily Paradell in Pinero’s “Mind-the-
Paint Girl,” which deeply touched New-
Yorkers 15 years ago.
“B.B.” : ltecent reference to Federici, who
died at the conclusion of a performance of
“Faust” at Melbourne Princess, recalls the
f-act, not generally known, that he was of
those who adopt foreign names. An English-
man, his proper name was Frederic Baker.
Before becoming an opera artist he held a
commission in a crack cavalry regiment.
“Craiser”: No foreign singer, as far as I
am aware, has equalled Scotsman Hislop’s
record of 52 concerts in Australia and Maori-
land. His achievement gives the lie to the
managerial belief that good vocal music won’t
be listened to unless the vocalist is named
Vermicelli. Hislop made no attempt to con-
ceal his nationality. Lie could 3ing Italian
songs like an Italian, but when he spoke
between items, which he was very fond of
doing, his voice reeked of the heather.
“A.8.W.”: The freehold of Her Majesty’s,
Ballarat, has been purchased by Hoyt’s from
a Bendigo medico for about £17,000. Thirty
years ago it was known as the Academy of
Music. It cost £12,000 to build in 1875,
and has been in active use ever since.
“Wigs”: Russell Medcraft and Norma
Mitchell, who collaborated in writing “Cradle
Snatchers,” are responsible for a new musi-
cal comedy founded on “The Three Mus-
keteers,” which has been staged in England
under the title of “The Swordsman.” Oscar
Asche is the producer of the piece. “Cradle
Snatchers,” by the way, is about to bob up
in London. The farce was refused a license
by the Censor two years ago, but various
alterations in situations and dialogue have
been made and a new title found for it—
“ Sauce for the Ganders.”
“East Side” : Died in New Yoi - k recently,
John Luther Long, author of the story on
which “Madame Butterfly” was based, and
part-author with David Belasco of another
seen earlier in Australia—“ The Darling of
the Gods.” Though both plays had a Jap-
anese environment nearer the real thing than
is usual on the stage, neither author had
visited the East. Long got the local color
from his sister, who had a lengthy mis-
sionary experience in Nippon.
“R.K.D.N.”: Since the announcement that
Gladys Moncrieff is returning under the
Fuller management the Firm has been be-
stirring itself to secure a leading lady to
compete with that undeniable favorite. The
choice has fallen on Lilian Davies, one of
London’s best singing actresses. She has
been engaged at, of course, a hitherto
unheard-of salary, and will lead in the forth-
coming J.C.W. musical plays “The Desert
Song” and “Vagabond King.”
“Listening-Insect”: Most radio experi-
menters have noticed that if you move a
conductor about in the vicinity of a howling
thermionic valve you can modify the obscene
uproar. This is the basis of Professor There-
min’s “music from the air” which has
thoroughly impressed Ernest Newman,
soberest of English critics. Theremin can play
any tune he knows, simulate a ’cello and give
a passable imitation of a stout soprano sing-
ing “Voi Che Sapete.” The consequences
should be revolutionary. A Williamson grand-
opera orchestra of the future will consist of
a conductor waving his digits over a box
fetched out of his coat-tail pockets. As the
device has ventriloquial qualities, Madame
Prima Secunda will simply open and close
her lips, while the same conductor puts the
tune into her mouth. As singing makes one
fat, this should lead to an improvement on
the spectacular side, and all performers may
be selected for only the splendor of their
personal appearance. Eventually humans
may be found unnecessary, moving photos
thrown on to a screen conveying a satis-
factory illusion. Friedmans who have to lug
half a dozen grand pianos round the world
will be unable to compete with the radio
musicians, and virtuosi as we know them
will cease to exist. These changes seem
fantastic, but so did automobiles, radio,
movies and aeroplanes in my youth.
“Flaming Youth” : Another indication that
the Fullers are well back in the better-class
show business is their engagement of Madge
Elliott and Cyril Richards to bring along
their own company towards the end, of the
year. They will follow on the grand-opera
venture. Both these Australians have made
rapid headway in London, where they are
starring in “Lady Luck.” which has been so
well received that it will probably keep them
going until they are due to make the Aus-
tralian trip.
“Wood’s Green” (Loud.) : Among theatri-
cal folk who have had a lengthy life and are
still fit for harness two fine examples are the
clowns in Bertram Mills’s circus at Olympia
—Whimsical Walker, aged 77 and 6S years
a clown, and Harry Paulo, aged 81 and 62
years at work.
BALLADE OF THE THREADBARE
THESPIAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With lofty mien he scans the bar,
Holding an unreplenished glass;
His eyes are distant, as if far,
Sad, bygone scenes before them pass:
His raiment indicates his class,
Always well pressed, though moths beset it;
He" sighs, “Ten quid a week! That ass ;
I’ll wager, now, he doesn’t get it.”
He mends a moribund cigar
And tells the ministering lass
His triumphs as a youthful star,
The idol of a clamorous mass;
Hebe is cool, for she, alas!
Knows subterfuge through having met it
In men who order “Bottled Bass!”
And mean to pay—but quite forget it.
The views he deems oracular
The Philistines describe as crass,
His gifted recitations are
Irreverently labelled “Gas”;
His rendering of “Durgha Dass”
Can find no hearer to abet it:
He mutters to himself “ ‘Quo fas
Et gloria’ —but I do not get it.”
Envoy.
Prince, Memory’s a deep morass
Of misery ; so, not to fret it,
Admit he would the best surpass,
In any part—could lie but get it.
N.s.w.
AHAB MULDOON.


HOUP-LA ABDULLA!
r
NERO RINGS THE BELL.
Oh! for the calm and unfailing sagacity of Nero, the
Circus Elephant!
He has subsided into a capacious chair after achieving
a dozen dignified feats in the Ring with tubs and immense
painted balls.
He peals a bell summoning Jacko the Page, but his tray
is riot laden with the outsized bun we had anticipated. Nero,
being an elephant-of-the-world, has naturally rung for his
Abdulla Cigarettes.
Do not we ourselves collapse into comfortable armchairs
when toil is over, with a craving for Repose and Pleasure
that only Abdulla’s infinitely alluring Cigarettes can
satisfy?
superb CIGARETTES
TURKISH EGYPTIAN VIRGINIA


r
f
PROSPECTOR TWICE SAVED
FROM BLOOD-POISON.
“When up one of the big northern rivers,”
writes Mr. J. Nicholson, a prospector, of 35
Edward Street, Redfern, Sydney, “a spiny
noxious weed stuck half through my hand.
I stopped all risk of lock-jaw and blood-
poison by prompt application of Zam-Buk.
This killed the poison, averted serious in-
flammation, and soon healed the wound.
“Another time when mining among quartz
rock containing arsenic, some of the stuff
got into a small wound and gave me a
terrible hand. I got Zam-Buk on the job
and it healed in a fortnight.”
Bb PrePPRW
With A Reliable
First-aid
Y'OUR need of Zam-Buk may come at any moment. Its instant
use will prevent a wound going “the wrong way.” Blood-
poison, insect bites and stings, infected sores, etc., can all be
effectively treated by this “surgery in a two-inch box.”
Zam-Buk is always the safest and best healer to use. Being a pure
herbal balm, Zam-Buk is remarkably soothing—it allays inflammation,
relieves pain and checks bleeding almost immediately.
Another important advantage of Zam-Buk is its valuable antiseptic
property, which KILLS and EXCLUDES disease germs. Added to this,
Zam-Buk is a real skin grower that heals quickly and surely.
Zam-Buk is successful in more serious skin troubles because, working
BELOW as well as ON the skin surface, it clears all trace of poison and
disease out of the tissues.
Keep a box of this ever-ready Zam-Buk always handy. It is the soothing
sure remedy for eczema, pimples, rashes, sores, scalp disease, bad legs,
abscesses, piles, ulcers, cuts, sprains, etc. 1/6 box, 3/6 family size. All
chemists.
ZAM-BUK MEDICINAL SOAP, I/- PER TABLET.
7 teal it
with
f amßuk /
Keeping Time
ŗ
with Time
Since Time began, man
has searched ceaselessly
for tangible means of
measuring it.
The modern ELGIN per-
sonifies the achievement
of his labor. Wafer-like,
accurate and durable,
ELGIN is conceded to be
the world’s standard for
watch integrity.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
&lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
[hi? ‘fi'a.de Mark
ř
in the Watch Care
(aiiadicu/i JJhcifie J^oiel/ 1
J y
frk J (hdtvm.
P
s»*
■ ■ : v.
SSiS?
? > i»
l&V
;iO|
m
■ *
8
m*.
MM
jm n
m
mm
aiyite i/ou to
res>t awhile
'wiidrt the q/oriej
ofGotnada
A LONG the Canadian Pacific route from Van-
f \ couver to Quebec a chain of 15 wonderful
C.P.R. hotels offer a distinctive service to people
of taste who desire exceptional comfort in travel.
To stay at these hotels, with their every modern con-
venience, assures the traveller of the renowned Canadian
Pacific service from beginning to end of his journey to
England.
Learn more of these magnificent hostels by writing for free illustrated
literature and particulars to any office, Union S.S. Co., of New
Zealand, any Tourist Booking Agency, or J. Sclater, Traffic Manager
for Australia and New Zealand, CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY, Union House, 247 George Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN
PACIFIC.
pi IT spam!? THE WORLD, my-
This year the bigger "Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.


FOR MEN
Look for Name on Sole
The Panhard —
Comfortable Feet
mean a lot to every
man. The Panhard
last, and into the shoes
made over it, are
built just those things
which mean so much
to you. The model
illustrated is made
with attractive rolled
edge and heel, and with
the wide tread are
distinctive features of
this last.
The smooth chamois
finish lining, the treated
innersole, and Restan
Cushion Heel impart a
feeling of immedip f e and
lasting comfort.
Price 39/6
POLISH^PPBVE
k f A f WITH \
HA f ♦ . L J
£
ci'
01. A
5®
300 Shines in
every Jar for-lfe
Also in Tubes and
Bottles Foi-I'3
MS 128
If any illustration m The .Bulletin talus
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
hooks are published in London. Prices outside
ihe British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
VOLS. I TO IV NOW READY.
Groves Dictionary of Music
Third Edition. With illustrations.
30s. net each.
The Arunta.
A Study of a Stone Age People.
By Sir Baldwin Spencer, K.C.M.G.,
F.R.S., and the late F. J. Gillen.
With Illustrations, 2 vols. 365. net.
The Saturday Review: “A monument of
honest and careful work of which the English
anthropological world may justifiably be proud.”
A SEQUEL TO “REALITY.”
Adventure.
The Faith of Science and the
Science of Faith.
By B. H. Streeter, Catherine M.
Chilcott, John Mac Murray, Alex-
ander S. Russell, 7s. 6d. net.
The Times: “The intense actuality of life
makes itself felt through all that he (Canon
Streeter) writes, and here his colleagues in
this latest book are at one with him It
is an appeal that recalls the great ages of
theology.”
NEW AND REVISED EDITION.
The Handy Royal Atlas of
Modern Geography
120 pages (15 by 9| in.) of maps
in full colors, and Index to over
26,000 place-names. Full-bound
cloth, titled in gold. 50s. net.
The Nation : “So few people have seen a
new ' atlas—or know how a re-arranged Europe
is mapped, that this new edition of a well-
established publication is bound to achieve
popularity.... A most notable work of refer-
ence.”
SECOND EDITION.
Science of Dairying
By W. A. G. Penlington, M.A.
Second Edition. Illustrated. 3s.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO. LTD.
imusotiixn & loxdox, w.c.2.
‘THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,’’
PRICE 3d
Contains everythin a « woman needs tt know.
\
0^
$
<G«ET
haiiij
WOULD
SPOIL
IT
\v°? c <?>:*v\e \
>°vw \ V^v\>A
■s■; N >
v>c\ ? cts
St° Tft '
WAINUT
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
r
the VENUS *
plans the uiorld
The first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
ŕ
17 Blacklead Degrees 6 D -9H & ?uper Copying (Medium & Harr 1 ) sd. each - 4/9 per dozen
Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
THE INKY WAY.
“F.0.X.”: It was a Bananaland country
town, and I was sitting in the lounge read-
ing, when an unknown came up and asked
if I had seen his friends. I explained to
him that I was a stranger, but that a
description of his friends might give me a
clue. He glanced at the paper in my hands.
“Two ‘Souters’,” he said, "and another chap
with a ‘Scorfield’ mouth.” This enabled
me to tell him his friends had just gone
upstairs with an “Oswald Pryor” lady.
“That’s my wife,” he snapped.
“K.D.S.”: A copy of the “Australian and
New Zealand Writers and Artists’ Year
Book” to hand contains much that would-be
writers will be grateful for; but it has no
hints for editors and subs., some of whom
need a bit of plain talk. May I appeal to them
to treat new, clean MS. with more respect,
and not return it scored over with ink or
pencil marks and badly folded in the return
cover? Paper costs money, and careful typing
takes time. Before me lie a dozen pages of
stuff so spoilt on its first trip that it cannot
be sent to a second editor until I again
type it.
“Clement R. d’Uppe”: Saw one of Harry
Morant’s manuscripts (B. 25/l/’2S) at sea
20 years ago. It was a common exercise-
book, which, as a sort of ship’s newspaper,
“The Breaker” had written on the old
steamer Kent, during the voyage to S’Africa,
eight or nine years previously. Presumably
it was compiled from day to day and handed
round among the editor’s fellow contingen-
ters. Its chief feature was a set of verses,
describing how a drunken bushman’s steed,
which had been a racehorse, took the turn-
ing into the paddock of his old exploits,
and carted his unconscious rider round and
round the course all night, freshening up
every time he entered the straight. The
book was much prized by the then captain
of the Kent, to whom Harry had given it
as a souvenir of tfye voyage.
“D.McM.”: Has any paper except The
Bulletin had a pub named after it? The
hostelry in question was situated at Edju-
dina (W.A.), between Kookynie and Mor-
gans. The facade was a brilliant pink,
and the lettering an exact reproduction of
that familiar to Bulletin readers. In 1906
Webb, the proprietor, was reputed to be the
original “Spider,” one-time mate of Henry
Lawson’s on the outer tracks. He was a
hospitable soul, and no deadbeat went past
the Bulletin Hotel without a free meal and
a drink or two.
DOUBLE SIGHT.
“How dare you, sir, come home in such a
state?”
“I’m perfec’ly all (hie) right, darling, but
I shee you'are beshide your shelf.”
“C.E.S.”: There was quite a sensation
on the Melbourne waterfront the other even-
ing when a lady reporter stepped into the
Customs launch and coyly requested to be
taken aboard the Narkundah “with the
boys” to interview the notables. Vainly the
boarding officer pointed out that it was
against the regulations, and that a monkey-
ladder had to be scaled in mid-bay. Miss
Fountain-pen said she didn’t mind. When
the launch was brought alongside the liner,
and the little lady started her climb, the
first officer spotted her and yelled “That
woman can’t come aboard. Take her off
that ladder.” The young lady merely smiled
and continued her climb. The first officer,
purple-faced, was at the deck to meet her,
but his heart softened when she gave him
a smile all to himself with an appealing
“Officer, can you take me to the purser,
please?” and soon everything was peace
again. Is this the first lady pen-pusher to
board a liner in mid-bay?
“A.G.M.”: The French courts have de-
cided that there is copyright in a pseudonym.
The -widow of “Caran d’Ache,” a famous
caricaturist in pre-war days, brought an
action against a company manufacturing lead-
pencils under that name. The defence was
that the words “Caran d’Ache” are Russian-
French for “lead-pencil,” but French law up-
held the widow’s proprietary right. Australian
artists studying in Paris in pre-war days
used to scramble for impromptu sketches by
the famous pen-jester much in the same way
as a past generation did for Phil May’s.
Keith Kennedy: I have just breasted the
most capacious bar in the world. It occupies
half a street in Tia Juana, Mexico, and
there are 241 feet of drinking space. The
shelves contain every sort of bottled joy from
Mexicali beer to the cactus-spirit called
pulque.
“P.M.”: The Australian preference for
tea over coffee (B. 19/l/’2B) reminds me
of the remark of a Yankee sergeant who was
attached to our unit in 1918. “I used to
wonder why you Australians nearly always
drink tea,” lie said, “until I tasted the
cawfee your cook served in the mess the
other night. Now I understand.”
“Allambee”: I, too, know a house-to-house
pedlar of the feminine sex who keeps a
watchful eye on the notices of engagements
(B. 19/l/’2B) and weddings, too. But she
doesn’t call with perfumes and the like; her
specific is a preparation “simply never
known to fail.” Nor does she confine her-
self entirely to the newlyweds; she confided
to my wife that business never flagged.
HIS FAVORITE LITERATURE.
CHAPLAIN: “I would be very pleased to
get you books from the library. Is
there any book you’d particularly like
to use?”
BAD MAN: “Yairs. A railway guide.”
“Mugus”: Unique among State schools
was a little wooden seminary at Sandy
Point, near Wilson’s Promontory, which the
Vic. Education Department recently closed.
Its 14 pupils all said “present” to the same
surname, Pilkington, borne by three brothers
who emigrated from Canada and Ireland
many years ago. There is one other settler
in the district, but he is childless.
“Carisbrook, Jun.” : In Queensland as well
as W.A. old buildings in decayed mining
settlements have proved worth the attention
of gold-seekers. On the Palmer and Croydon
(Q.) goldfields pubs were often dismantled
when the population had ebbed away, and
there was often brisk competition among
prospectors for the job of demolishing the
buildings. The bar-room floors were gener
ally full of cracks, and many a decent haul
was made underneath.
“Rastus”: I have a one-valve short-wave
receiver, and to date have received over 600
stations in four months, all on wave-lengths
below 100 metres. The so-called “Mystery
Station” (RFN) in Siberia can be heard
here almost any night with plenty of volume,
the Russian music and singing making it
unique. Most of these stations have been
sending in code, but ’phone signals from Eng-
land, America, Asia and elsewhere suggest
that the time is not far distant when any
part of the world will be accessible by
ordinary house telephone.
“Channon”: The Levuka may have been
the first merchant vessel in Austialian waters
to be fitted with wireless (B. 19/l/’2B), but
the cruisers Juno and St. George, which
escorted the Ophir to these shores when the
present King came to open the Common-
wealth Parliament, were chatting with each
other at 26m. apart off the M.L. coast in
June, 1901. I “saw” the conversation from
the old flagship Royal Arthur. I may add
that Queensland naval forces had wireless
(for fun. seemingly, as there was no one to
ring up) just before Federation, and in 1903
I saw preparations being made for its instal-
ment on the Mildura.
“Beethart”: I’ve been wallowing in music
of all sorts for half a century and I’m
hanged if I can see what backing there is
for “Adapter’s” par. (B. 19/l/’2B). He
talks of the, necessity for “rearranging and
adapting” the pianoforte works of Beet-
hoven, Mozart and Bach, on the score that
they wrote for the spinet and harpsichord
and were unacquainted with the modern
pianoforte. Isn’t he mistaking the duties
of an editor for those of a perverter? I have
never seen an edition of Beethoven’s
pianoforte works —from sonatas to baga-
telles —that bore any traces of “adapta-
tion,” or carried a copyright. Kreisler
and other violinists have made transcrip-
tions of pianoforte music for the violin;
Liszt has made bravura pianoforte tran-
scriptions of Schubert’s songs and various
operatic numbers and Tausig has elaborated
as a pianoforte- solo Schubert’s best-known
military march (written as a duet), some of
the Bach organ compositions and a trifle by
Weber. But if either “Harold Hardupp”
or “Adapter” can show me an edition of the
pianoforte works of Beethoven, Bach or
Mozart for the pianoforte that carries an
adapter’s copyright I’ll get the surprise of
my life. The point of “Harold Hardupp’s”
par. (B. 24/11/’27) was that musicians
were compelled to pay tribute to adapters
because the original scores of the classics
were not available. That is not the experi-
ence of pianists.
TO THE SUB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Time was when exultation dwelt in every
printed line
That I could fondly dote upon, and proudly
point as mine ;
It irked me not that subs, should sap the
sense or lam ihe flow
Of what they deemed inapposite—che public
didn’t know.
But blase now this heart that once sought
high adventuring;
No longer mutilated pars, exhilaration bring.
Disturbingly a query lurks these days in
every line,
“Does other blighters’ stuff get chopped about
as much as mine?”
QUEENSLAND.
G. A. LLOYD.


Jnhrtfcjite Road Record
now held bu
%
%
-***
/f
4
j'-4
<tz.
\
/
IS
v
''///
Sydney-melbourne Record
BROKEN AGAIN/
The remarkable and initial achievement of holding EVERY
OFFICIAL RECORD between adjacent State capitals was
attained on January 25, when a Chrysler “70”—driven by
Mr. H. J. Beith—smashed the existing Sydney-Melbourne record
at an average speed of over 53 miles per hour.
The 576 miles were covered in 10 hours 42 minutes—the speed
of the last 65 miles being at the rate of nearly a mile a minute.
CHRYSLER NOW HOLDS THESE RECORDS:
Sydney-Melbourne.
576 miles in 10 hrs. 42 mins.
Brisbane-Sydney.
650 miles in 16 hrs. 5 mins.
Adelaide-Melbourne.
580 miles in 1 1 hrs. 49 mins.
fremantle-Adelaide.
1,802 miles in 74 hrs. 12 min 3.
Auckland-Wellington.
504 miles in 12 hrs. 50 mins.
Christchurch-Bluff.
402 miles in 8 hrs. 50 mins.
Australian 24-Hour Record.
1,607 miles at Lake Perkolilli, W.A., and 1,000 miles in 875 minutes.
Here is convincing proof of the stability and endurance which goes with
the quality design of every Chrysler Car. Such an enviable reputation
has never been held by any other automobile—these records have
proven Chrysler’s claim to engineering perfection and precision
manufacturing.
CHRYSLER
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Carke Neave & Carter Ltd,., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney.
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place. Wellington.


W. W. GREENER
GUNS
Sf.rt'
ARE SURE KILLERS
Wholesaale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
Don't wish for the Best —get it.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S BITTER ALE.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
AN OLD “SPOT” MELLOWED BY AGE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney.
[i.
ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up Beautiful
lighting effects A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Cafe de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS ANE> SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines'),
under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The Canterbury Park meeting on Satur-
day was bad for the generality. of punters,
the exceptions including those wiio pin their
faith to Bulletin selections. (Judging by
the number of reply-paid wires that arrive
at the week-end this reckless practice is
increasing, especially in Queensland.) Dick
\vootton threw in for a good win on Sweet
Auburn (backed from sixes to threes) in the
Park Stakes, only to see his gelding downed
by Nuptial, an imported filly owned by two
bookmakers, who wasn’t asked for in the
ring—her tote div. was £l4 11s. 6d. for 10s.
Another bookmaker’s horse, Preposterer (6 to
x ), accounted for a warm favorite, Cadenza
(5 to 4), in the Flying Handicap. He was
really an outsider, for there were only five
starters, and one of those (Flinders) was
“any price,” for he was having his first
gallop after a spell.
In the betting on the first division of
the Highweight Handicap it was 7 to 2
Hazel Boy, 4 to 1 Golden Grist and the same
Prairie Belle. They finished in that order;
Hazel Boy, who is English-bred, won easily.
This and the second division, which proved
a soft thing for Less Noise (10 to 9), a
daughter of Chrysolaus, were the only races
on which the public really showed a profit.
The Canterbury Handicap, 11 furlongs,
went to Frances Cyllone (10 to 1) after a
thrilling finish with Funny (10 to 1), a half-
brother by Comedy King to Even Song, a
good mare in her day, and Ken tie (14 to 1).
It was the first glimpse of form shown by
Iventle since he came from Brisbane, and his
future efforts will be closely observed. Royal
Sun (8 to 1) captured the Campsie Handi-
cap from old AH Home (33 to 1) and Beedos
(4 to 1) after having been a good way
behind the leaders at the end of the first
furlong as the result of a bump. There was
some rough work in the Canterbury Handi-
cap as well as this race —in fact, it is
getting too common for a horse to lose his
chance at Canterbury going out of the
straight.
* * * *
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Maiden Handicap: Prince Sarchedon.
Gold Cup : Royal Sun; next, Bacagi.
Three-year-old Handicap : Beckwith ; next,
Vanished.
Moorefield Handicap: Dion; next, St.
Eaton.
Carlton Welter: King Cyllene; next,
Cherry Ripe.
•5* *s* *i*
Quite the feature of the afternoon’s racing
at Epsom (Vic.) on Saturday was the
return of Quintus to something like his best
form. The 1924 Newmarket Handicap win-
ner was sold by T. M. Burke a few months
ago for racing in the country, where he has
been successful for owner-trainer J. Dunlea.
Going out at 20 to 1 for the Epsom Plate,
he vanquished a strong field of sprinters,
beating the Woorak mare Wedau (3 to 1)
and Treasure’s Queen (33 to 1) when it
came to serious business. The old chap
carried lOst. 31b., and carved out the six
furlongs in lmin. 13scc. He was ridden by
Frank Dempsey, who was victorious later
in the day on Love Story (5 to 1) in the
second division of the Purse.
The chief event of the day, the Epsom
Handicap, was taken by the Lilyveil geld-
ing Cobranveil (6 to 1). It was a rather
lucky win ; Cobranveil just scrambled home
by a head from Honorium (4 to 1), whose
rider fumbled with his reins at the crisis.
Durability was a fair third. The winner
is owned and trained by Jack Holt. Backers
made no mistake in the first two race's, as
King of Revelry (6 to 4) cantered in with
the first division of the Two-year-old Handi-
cap, and Treasury Bond (3 to 1) landed
the other division after a good tussle with
Heroic’s half-brother Cimbrian. But Mc-
Shortodds was contelitment itself after the
last race, the Apprentices’ Handicap, as the
winner, Buclcland, was scarcely asked for in
the betting. His nominal price was 33 to 1.
j]r
“What will Sans Culotte get in the New-
market?” was a popular query in Mel-
bourne before Woorak’s daughter was
beaten at Moonee Valley—it hasn’t been
heard so much since. The V.R.C. handi-
capper has given the filly Bst. 71b. —21b. less
than Avant Courier. The brother to Vali-
care is preferable at the weights. Amounis
and Vaals head the list with 9st. 111 b.;
Gothic and Quintus have a pound less and
Waranton 9st. 91b. Other horses which
have been mentioned in preliminary discus-
sions are Biskra (Bst. 121 b.), Cannon (Sst.
81b), The Wensum (Sst. 21b.), Whitta (Sst.
lib.), Lesboo (7st. 121 b.) and Violian (7st.
STYMIED.
BILLY: “I haven’t had you to myself for a moment to-day! What about telling
your caddy to hop it?"
S HE: “I can’t very well, Billy — he’s my husband.”
61b.). Lesboo has unquestionable claims,
but may be reserved for the Doncaster.
Wliitta is a good little mare, and will take
beating if she goes over.
Silvius (9st. 51b.) was an early fancy for
the Australian Cup, but something has gone
wrong with him and he has been scratched.
Star d’Or (Bst. 121 b.), Naos (Bst 41b.),
Imitator and Frilford (7st. 101 b.), Sun
Morn (7st. 91b.), Iventle (7st. 31b.) and
Grosvenor (6st. 111 b.) are not badly handi-
capped. If Iventle goes on improving he
will be dangerous; but there is the Sydney
Cup the following month.
sj: & * *
“Ike Mcßagg” : It warms my heart to note
an illustration in one of the Sydney dailies
of the huge amount expended by the Senti-
mental Tommies in keeping the punters in
luxury. To begin with, the philanthropist
with the bag has to part up close on a
thousand a year in Government taxes and
club charges. No member of the profession
with any regard for appearances can do with
less than three gentlemen in waiting. In
addition to salaries, admission fees, etc., must
be paid for these humble but necessary
persons; this means about £3 per meeting,
or, say, £6OO for the year. The emoluments
of the three retainers will run to about £1250
p.a. Then thei'e are the indispensable car, the
betting-ticket tax and minor oddments that
swell the outgoings to, say, £4500. That
would still be bearable if the punters would
only bet in sufficient volume to return the
outlay of £9O a week. Unhappily the cows
frequently fall short of their duty in this
respect, with the result that the ledger won’t
balance. There are other expenses, too, not
mentioned in the article —the diamonds for
one’s womenfolk, for example. As to the
money paid out to punters—well, words fail
me.
* * * *
“Sylvia Park” : Absurd, one of the greatest
sires Maoriland has known, was retired from
the stud after the season just past, though
he is only 18 —not in the Methuselah class,
as thoroughbred stallions go. Though most
of liis stock were sprinters, and therefore
out of the big events over a distance, they
won in eight seasons stakes amounting to
£256,741. In 1924-25, to take only one
instance, Absurd headed the winning sires’
list in Maoriland with £25,526, and was
second in Australia with £22,954.
* * * *
“Ellesmere” : Buying brood mares is even
more of a gamble than buying sires, but the
late J. F. Buchanan, of Maoriland, had
either a lot of luck or rare judgment in
making his pick. In 1917 he imported six
brood mares from England, and four at
least have made good. Sparrow Hawk s
first foal was The Hawk, who has won over
£22,000 in stakes. Another of the batch,
Pineta, threw Rapine, whose stake _ collec-
tions are given at £20,330. Polymnia pro-
duced The Cypher as her second offspring,
and he won £6BOO. Per Anna was respon-
sible for Matarma, who at time of writing
was credited with £2755 ; as he is engaged
in the Maoriland Leger and other rich
stakes, he should considerably improve on
this by the end of the season. The price
given for the six importations has never
leaked out, but they must 'have shown a
handsome profit. The four Polymnia year-
lings brought 3625 guineas.
* * * *
“Amateur Urger” : It has been suggested
that the new racecourse which is to be
laid out at Canberra should include a straight
mile, and it is to be hoped t(he suggestion
will be acted on. There is much to be said
for it. The longest straight run in Australia
is Flemington’s six furlongs, but England
boasts at' least two straight miles; one is
the famous Rowley Mile at Newmarket and
the other is at the Lingfield course. Pantheon,
now in Australia, has had an experience of
the Lingfield miie. Called Spalpeen then,
he ran second on it to Blue Pete when that
flier cut out the mile in lmin. 33see.
“Aintree”: For the Liverpool Grand
National, greatest of “lepping” races, there
is an American nomination this year—and
an American ’chaser is a rare bird in Britain.
The prad is Billy Barton, and he took the
fancy of the critics by the fashion in which
he won the three-miles Newbury Steeple on
his first appearance in England. Barton has
lOst. 111 b. to carry at Aintree. If both
keep right, he will be ridden by an Ameri-
can (and an amateur at that) appropriately
named Albert Ober. How the pair wall take
to the unique course remains to be seen, but
the race is worth going for. It will be worth
£ll,OOO this year.
* .j. * *
Adelaide thinks it has a good mare in
Fruition (Eudorus —-Coressetta). She has
won three local w.f.a. races since Christ-
mas, easily beating in the last one Mortlock’s
much-fancied Cheosan. And a good Adelaide-
owned youngster is Yassmin (YVoorak —
Sumurun). Giving lumps of weight _to
everything but one in the Adelaide Racing
Club’s Turretfield Stakes, for two-year-
olds, on Foundation Day, she won cleverly
from a field of 13. She is a half-sister to
Sum King and Amusement.
MLQ. (and Rafferty) Rules
Wlliat happened at Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night was just what every good
judge had predicted when the match was
announced. Bruno Frattini (12st. 21b.) was
just a living punching-bag for “Tiger”
Payne (12st. 51b.). Yet between 8000 and
9000 people, including a number of the
shingled sex, crowded to see the sacrifice.
The negro, who was 4 to 1 on, let Bruno
do all the punching in the first round, accept-
ing with supreme indifference sundry beefy
swings to the head. Signor Frattini beamed
and seemed to think he had a soft thing on ;
but he was soon disillusioned. Payne canv;
at him in the second round grinning like
a savage dog about to attack. Frattini’s patent
cross-body double guard caused the coon
some perplexity, while his buried chin was
hard to reach; so the dark gentleman just
whanged the Italian on temples, forehead and
eyes till he blinked and tottered. The third
was the last. A tremendous hook to the chin,
followed by a smashing right to the jaw, put
Frattini down. He lifted himself to knee
and elbow, shaking his head like a wounded
bull, while the count went on. Just as referee
Wallis turned and patted Payne’s woolly head,
the Italian scrambled to his feet and lum-
bered across to meet the foe; but the coon
was just then busy getting through the ropes
to leave for his arboreal home in dear old
Woolloomooloo.
* t- * *
Though far the better boxer, Teddy Mur-
ton (9.95). the neat little Englishman who
shaped well against Grime a year ago, had to
submit to defeat after 15 hard rounds with
Irishman Bob Miller (9.13|) at Melbourne.
In the early rounds Bob suffered for his im-
petuousness, Teddy’s left giving his face an
■ensanguined appearance, but he continued
to bore in, swinging both arms, and now and
again landed a good one. In the seventh
spasm Teddy cut loose with everything in
his repertoire, landing some clean, hard
punches, but Bob smiled cheerfully through
the bombardment and was forcing his oppon-
ent around the ring before the round finished.
After this Robert’s onslaughts gradually
became more effective as Ted seemed to tire.
In the tenth Miller’s supporters howled with
delight as he sent in two beautiful upper-
cuts, and he continued steadily to make up
the leeway. In the twelfth he connected
solidly with the best right of the scrap.
Over the last few rounds Teddy kept on the
defensive, evidently thinking he had some-
thing in hand; nevertheless Bob fully
deserved the decision.
* * !f. *
“Bumpkin”: The report that Dempsey
has been put on the shelf by his manage-
ment because his eyes are affected is not
surprising. High blood-pressure incidental
to the bruising game is likely to strain a
fighter’s optics, apart from the occasions
when he gets them compulsorily closed.
That was the reason why clever little Bert
Spargo had to give up the game.
* * * ❖
“Tom Cribb”: The report that the old
abo. fighter Jerry Jerome is living in con-
tented and corpulent retirement at the
Barambah Mission Station in Queensland is
a reminder that Jerry is a gentleman of
means—not much, but enough. Jerry, who
combined extreme agility in the ring with a
paralysing wallop, won many good fights,
but got very little out of most of them —the
“mob” saw to that. A couple of days after
a mill that should have turned him in hundreds
of pounds, the blackfellow would be penni-
less. The affair became such a scandal that
Jerry’s affairs were taken in hand by the
Abo. Protection Department. That was to-
wards the end of his ring career, but enough
was saved to buy him a bit of house pro-
perty in South Brisbane, and this, pre-
sumably, is still his.
(Continued on page 41.)
THE PARALLEL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Referring to the alleged intention of the French
tennis authorities to recall Borotra and co., the Syd-
ney Evening News observes: ‘France has again
sounded the tocsin to her sons overseas. In 1914
her fair fields were threatened by invading hordes;
in 1928 she sees herself menaced on the lawns of
tennis and fears that Lacoste and Oochet will have
to bear the brunt of the world’s attacks if the tour-
ing players go stale.’ ”
Tennis—-and War! One filled two million
graves
In stricken France. But, while you give
them meed
Of honor, don’t forget the tennis braves.
These, too, must rally to their country’s
need
When danger threatens. Back across the
waves,
You wanderers, you’re w’anted—yes, indeed.
Sans you, your land the Davis Cup might
lose.
The parallel is obvious to the News.
The pen is mightier than the sword, they
say—
A dictum that to traverse I’d be loath-
The catgut implements with which you play
May be of greater consequence than both.
Best lieed the call or there may come a day
Bad as Sedan for France, my blanky oath!
Or so apparently it is inferred
In this choice sample of the printed word.
Tennis —and War! Well, both may take
their toll;
If one is over-hard on life and limb
The other in one’s pocket makes a hole
With seats for which the Ass. demands
a “jiin.”
Back, then, where duty calls! Why, bless
my soul,
Those indefatigable Yanks might trim
France if you lost your form. Ev’n Ver-
dun’s falling
Had scarcely, one concludes, been more
appalling.
N.S.W.
IORD.


For Every Sporting Need!
Tennis Rackets
Every known make, represented!
Miclc Simmons present the most comprehensive display of Tennis Rackets showing
in Australia to-day. Whether it is the “A”-grade Player or the Schoolgirl who
seeks the perfect Racket for his or her individual style of play, it will be found
here in a wider range and infinitely lower-priced.
3 Popular Rackets
Exclusively distributed by Mick Simmons !
The “Lockyer”—Tropical Model
Price ... 85/-
>ro^ u f* : Cobbett, Ltd., London s oldest manufacturers of Tennis Material. The choicest
o ma ena s an a ifetime of experience are embodied in the construction of this super racket.
rame is o ouble-strip rent ash, laminated with selected oak. Highly strung, yet the makers
believe it retains its shape better than any other racket.
A Racket specially manufactured to suit Australian conditions.
Strung with Extra Superior English Gut.
The Lockyer Tropical” Frame carries a full Six (6) Months* Guarantee.
r
V'
6
y
The “Masterstroke”
Improved Model
Price 77/6
A beautiful example of Tennis Racket craftsmanship. One-piece Rent
Ash f rame, with specially bound and reinforced shoulders; the wed-e
is doubly strengthened by an inlay of raw-hide. A Racket perfect in
weight, shape and balance, it has wonderful driving power and speed.
Strung with superior quality English Gut.
The “Masterstroke” Frame carries a full six ( 6) Months’ Guarantee.
The “Lightning”
Price 45/-
Unquestionably the most widely-sold Racket in Australia to-day. Con-
structed from specially-selected materials, it will stand up to the hardest
usage. Frame is of English Ash, with concave throat and reinforced
shoulders. For quality, dependability and craftsmanship, this Racket
in its own particular class has no equal in the Tennis world.
Strung with dependable Gut. i
The “Lightning” Frame carries a full Six ( 6) Months’ Guarantee.
Famous
“WINCHESTER”
Sporting Rifles
r
Lower-priced at C%Cicfc Simmons!
M°. 15—Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22 short, long
or long-rifle nm-fire cartridges; 21 in. heavy round steel barrel, plain
trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle over all,
j/fin. ; plain front sight; weight, about 41b 40/-
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3/2.
No. 17—Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Model, 22-cal., 16-shot,
/Uin. round barrel, plain trigger, straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide
action; magazine handles 15 short, 12 long, or II long-
rifle cartridges; weight, about s Jib £4/10/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 18—Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1890 Model, 24in. octagon barrel
9 9W/D I r' ger ’i Straight S ri P. stock - 22 short, 22 long, 22 long-rifle, and
22 W.R.F. calibres. This rifle is made in four styles, each
rifle takes one size cartridge only; weight, s Jib £5/5/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 23—Winchester Repeating Rifle, Model 53, 25/20 or 32 W.C.F.,
22in. round nickel steel barrel, lever action similar to 1892 Model,’
handles the ordinary cartridge, also the special Hi-speed;
weight, about 61b £7/12/6
Carriage Paid.
The Popular
“WILL CORRY”
Autograph Golf Clubs
Products of the finest craftsmanship, they have been acclaimed by
hundreds of experienced Golfers as the acme of perfection in high-
grade Clubs. Super-quality shafts, specially prepared grips, and hand-
forged irons.
Special Beginners’ Golf Sets
Comprising Oriver, Mashie, Mid Iron, Putter, two 3/6 quality
, Balls, Tan Canvas Bag with leather fittings, and copy
of latest Rules 50/»
Similar Set, complete with 2/6
quality Golf Balls
47/6
ŕ
(Carriage Paid on the above Sporting Goods, except where specified otherwise.)
c Ttficfc Simmons Jid
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, Sydney
AND AT NEWCASTLE AND BRISBANE. J
“Australia's Largest Sports Outfitters


SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up
to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining 7.30,
12/6. Supper 10 p.m. till 1 a.m., 10/6.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 7.30 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.15 p.ra.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret afternoon and evening.
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 6, 4/-;
parties of 6 upwards, 3/6.
Saturdays and holidays 3.30 to 5.30, 6/-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M 3666.
THE MODERN AUTOMATIC
idfiiss
*Ol
„22 Calibre F.N., “Browning” Rifle
CONVENIENCE— Taken apart, it packs into a 20-inch suit-case.
WEIGHT Only four pounds.
SI’EED Limited only by the speed with which the shooter can move his trigger-
finger for each shot.
CAPACITY 8 standard, inexpensive .22 long-rifle cartridges.
ACTION Of standardised, interchangeable parts.
ACCURACY Equal to that of any rifle of the same calibre and length of barrel.
SIGHTS Sporting “bead” front and adjustable rear.
SAFETY Button type, located in the trigger-guard, where it can be instantly thrown
“on” or “off.”
PRICE £3/7/6 post free to any address in Australia.
Write for our revised Supplementary List “B” of Rifles, Ammunition, etc.
COWLES & DUNN
(The Oldest-Established Gunmakers in Australia),
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 3388.
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
7 able D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The Ins and Outs
Queensland, which beat Victoria in the
second Shield game at Brisbane last year,
made a good start to repeat the dose when
Ron Oxenham dismissed 0 of the visitors
for 78. Ponsford went for 63, and Ryder
rattled up a fast 84. Hendry (32) and
Scaife (39) helped, but 8 were down for
238; a’Beckett (47) and Morton (23 n. 0.)
improved matters. O’Connor again kept
wickets in line style ; he stumped Ponsford,
caught Hendry and Scaife, and let only one
bye get past him. O’Connor (63) and R.
Oxenham (65), the opening batsmen, put
the side in a winning position.
* * *
“Der Jong”: After losing the first three,
South Africa won the fourth Test match
against England, played at the Wanderers’
Ground, in Jo’burg. The visitors made 265
and 215, South Africa count ring with 328
(Taylor contributed 101) and 156 for 6
wickets. Bissett, the An- kander fast-medium
bowler, was the principal factor in the defeat
of the Rooineks.
* il« >st
“C. Cum”: On Boxing Day three years
ago Cumberland played Windsor on Rich-
mond Park (N.S.W.). A young giant 6ft. 4in.
and 15 stone bowled very impressively for
the local team, and “Banner” Edwards in-
vited him to play with Cumberland. Thus
did Charlie Nicholls come into first-grade
cricket. The veteran arranged to meet the
colt each Saturday morning until the big
fellow found his bearings; in those days he
didn’t know where the grade grounds were.
Nicholls is of a gentle disposition, but is a
boxer of no mean order. A Windsor admirer
tried to get the late Peter Felix to pass an
opinion on Charlie’s skill with the gloves.
Peter made an appointment but forgot all
about it and went to the races. Windsor
folk are very keen on Nicholls these days.
In a window there the other day I saw this
placard affixed to a cheese: “Come and buy
the cheese that Charlie Nicholls eats!”
Charlie’s father, by the way, is 6ft. 6in. and
weighs 18 stone.
* *i* * *
“W. G. Snort”: The last of the N.S.W.
Sheffield Shield engagements, the match
against Victoria at the Sydney Cricket
Ground, degenerated into a dreary farce in
its closing stages. Though he had a lead of
over 300 at the tea interval on the fourth
day, Ivippax played out time instead of de-
claring and sending the tired Victorians in to
bat. whereby he might have forced an out-
right win. He held on till stumps, when the
score had reached 353 for 8 wickets, Brad-
man scoring 134 and Blackie finishing with 6
wickets for 101, Batting the next morning, the
Victorians lost Ponsford, miraculously caught
by Gregory off Nicholls for 2, and the match
closed with Victoria 205 for one wicket and
N.S.W. taking the match points on the first-
innings lead. During the last morning’s play
Ivippax made a travesty of the game by putting
on all and sundry to bowl; Woodfull had
offended in the same way late in the N.S.W.
innings the previous evening. Such a pex-form-
ance is little short of an insult to the public
who support the game and, incidentally, help
to support some of the players, and it is to be
hoped that the authorities will take official
notice of the matter. In the circumstances
it is hardly worth while commenting on the
fact that Rigg, the young Melbourne Uni-
versity player, scored his first century in
a Sheffield Shield match in very quick time
on the last morning of the game, or that
Woodfull ran to 81 n.o. One can only feel
sorry that they were not given a serious
opportunity of displaying their batting
ability.
Racquet and Bawl
Going on what happened in the national
championships at Rusheutter Bay, it must
be admitted that Australia’s prospects of
regaining the Davis Cup this year are not
very bright. The visiting Frenchmen are
far from being in first-class condition and
they were unlucky to strike a spell of
oppressive weather. Yet they won both
singles and doubles. Certainly Brugnon and
Boussus failed to reach the semi-finals of
the singles, and Borotra had no easy task.
Baker took two sets from him; llopman
made him travel, though beaten in three
straight sets; and against Crawford the
Basque had a rough passage—the young
N.S.W. champion played one of the finest
games of his career and forced the visitor
to five sets. And Brugnon was eliminated
by Cummings, while Boussus tried to
outdrive Schlesinger and failed. Hampered
by a blistered foot, Patterson was beaten
by Schlesinger, who was presently overcome
by Cummings—the surprise-packet of the
tournament. In the final Cummings made
a fine recovery after a shaky start, when
the Basque was two sets up on him. Cum-
mings went at his man, and took the third
and fourth sets, only to be outstayed by his
opponent, who won the final set and the
title with one of his characteristic strong
finishes.
The doubles also proyided some surprises,
one being the defeat of the Davis Cup pan,
Crawford and Ilopman, by Schlesmger and
Wertheim. The Victorians went down in
their turn to Borotra and Brugnon. in the
other semi-final Jim Willard and Moon made
a splendid showing against Patterson and
Hawkes. beating the formidable combination
in three straight sets. Moon played very
fine tennis. In the final, however, he was oil
his game, and though W illard strove
valiantly, Borotra and Brugnon were their
masters, losing’ only one set. On his form
in this tournament Cummings deserves to
be sent abroad, and Moon’s claims should not
be dismissed without earnest consideration.
sjc * * *
“Cut Shot’: As to the French tennis-
players having to earn their oats while in
Maoriland (B. 22/12/’27), they ought to
get a double ration on the work set them in
Sydney. The N.S.W. Tennis Ass. is neck-
and-neck with the Rugby League when it
comes to getting the “gates;’ and it has about
as much consideration for its patrons, too.
Last week the Frenchmen plaintively hinted
that they would be glad of a spell, for they
found that a practically all-day and every-
day turnout on the courts in the sort of
weather Sydney has been suffering was no
rest-cure. Evidently some sympathetic mem-
ber of the French colony apprised the Gallic
governing body of the situation, for word
came over the cable that the French heads,
alarmed at the possibility, of their Davis Cup
cracks being butchered to make a White City
holiday, were ordering their lads to cut the
show short and come home as soon as pos-
sible.' Borotra denies that he has received
any such command, but the idea of any cur-
tailment of the Sydney season is worrying the
gate-money squad horribly. It won’t matter
so much if the Melbourne visit is cut out,
or if South Aus. and Westralia are left in
the soup, but to take even a day’s takings
away from the N.S.W. tennis Shyloeks will
A CASE FOR SPARES.
VICTIM: “Tell me the worst, Doctor.”
QUACK: “Front axle buckled, and radiator busted."
be equivalent to robbing a poodle of his
chickenbone.
# * * *
“Andante”: When E. F. Moon was a
Brisbane Grammar School boy he took little
or no intei'est in tennis. It was his father
who persuaded him to give up hurdling
and the like in favor of tenuis. A court
was made near the homestead at Caboolture
by the simple method of cutting away the
grass, and there with his elder brother “Gar,”
then 18 years of age, played his first tennis.
His promise was noticed by C. B. St. John,
and the youngster was persuaded to come to
Brisbane every Saturday from Caboolture, a
distance of some 26 miles, to play in Q.L.T.A.
fixtures. As his progress in the game in-
creased so did his keenness. Compared with
players whose connection with sports depots
enables them to get any amount of practice
in first-class company, Moon has had few
opportunities of meeting the masters. It :s
for this reason, combined with his iron
wrist and sure eye, that good judges are
so keen on his being sent to Europe.
if * * *
“lluffin-Guffin”: The controversy over
what constitutes a “foot-fault” in lawn-tennis
—every country and each Australian State
has different ideas on the subject, and every
umpire differs from his brethren in all
aspects and details —is becoming a con-
founded nuisance. There are only three short
sub-clauses of the rule (7) which deals
with the question. These state definitely that
a player when serving shall not change liis
position by walking or running, shall main-
tain contact with the ground, and shall keep
both feet behind the baseline. These rules,
especially the second, which demands that the
server shall have both feet on the ground till
the racquet has hit the ball, are ignored by
99£ per cent, of players the world over, in-
cluding, the writer is game to bet, the experts
who insist most dogmatically on their observ-
ance. If you don’t believe it, watch one of
them next time he plays, or try yourself to
serve successfully with both hooves planted
on terra firma.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Torrens” : Australia is to have one pro-
fessional representative in the British open
golf championship tins year. The South Aus-
tralian gowfers have rallied manfully to the
support of Rufus Stewart, the Kooyonga
club’s professional, who holds the Australian
open championship, and have raised all the
necessary cash save £250. R. E. Kelmsley,
of London, who has South Aus. affiliations and
is at present in Adelaide, has guaranteed that
if the balance is %'ot subscribed he will pro-
vide it himself. With Len Nettlefold repre-
senting the amateurs and Stewart among the
pros., Australia will have two good men in
the field.
“Divot Digger” : Fluke shots at golf con-
tinue to be popular in Brisbane. The latest
goes to the credit of T. B. Hunter, secretary
of the Queensland Golf Association. Playing
at the Hamilton course, he drove off and
pulled the ball badly. It struck an upright
half-inch waterpipe which stood well to the
left of the direct line to the hole, performed
the apparently impossible feat of bouncing
off at almost a right angle and ran up nicely
to the edge of the green. What his opponent,
the Royal Queensland’s skipper, had to say
about it has been omitted by the chronicler.
sfs H* H* Hs
“Brassey” : Quite a number of “marines”
yielded up their spirits at the nineteenth
holes of N.S.W. golf clubs when the news
came through that N.S.W. had won the
inter-Dominion battle for the Kirk-Windeyer
Cup in Maoriland. The win gained addi-
tional piquancy from the fact that W. R.
Dobson, of the Concord club, who had not
been selected in the first place, was included
in the side —reckoned “just a good, steady
lot” —and won both his singles and four-
somes. Dobson showed fine form in
preliminary matches, and Dr. Nigel Smith,
the N.S.W. captain, sportingly stood down
in his favor. The game was very close,
matches being even; however, N.S.W. had
ten holes to the good. The victory means
that the Maorilanders will have to come
over to Sydney, where the first match for
the trophy was played last year, when the
next attack on the holders is made.
Amateurs and Professionals
So many pastimes once purely amateur
are being debased by the desire of organi-
sations and individuals to make money out
of them that it is refreshing to read of the
fillip given to amateur football by the
N.S.W. Rugby Union team’s tour of Britain.
Much of the football played in Australia
is openly or clandestinely professional, but
the Waratahs play the game for the game’s
sake. The Rugby Union closed down during
the war and had a hard job to re-establish
itself when peace came, especially as many
fine exponents of the code were left in
France and Flanders, Sinai and Syria. More
than once it looked as if the amateur code
would be snuffed out, as it has been in
Queensland; but, with steady support from
the Great Public Schools and the Maori-
land Union, the danger was overcome.
In England, Wales, Scotland, the Irish
Free State, Northern Ireland and France,
the Waratahs have been conspicuously suc-
cessful, on the field and off. The univer-
sal verdict of those who have met them
as sportsmen and guests is that they are
first-class footballers and first-class fellows.
No other team from overseas has ever
achieved such spontaneous and genuine
popularity and esteem among every section
of the British nation, from the Welsh coal-
miners to the head of the Empire, who
received them at Sandringham—a mark of
appreciation never before extended to any
similar organisation.
Yet these splendid young Australians who
have advanced the reputation of Aus-
tralia abroad will have to put up with very
cavalier treatment in one quarter when they
return to their own metropolis of Sydney.
They are not allowed to play on the Sydney
Cricket Ground, although its charter stipu-
lates that it must be utilised for amateur sport.
The control of this ground, one of the most
famous in the world, is handed over in the
football season to the Rugby League, a
professional body with no very edifying
history. Utilising funds accumulated from
its winter monopoly of the ground dedicated
to amateur sport, this professional body
did its best to wipe out the amateur game;
and .even now it will not let the Union have
the use of the Sydney Cricket Ground for
games against such world-famous sides as
the All Blacks.
Though arrogant in these matters, the
Rugby League has shown itself remarkably
humble on other occasions. Having brought
an English team to Australia, it meekly
asked for the favor of a return visit. The
English professional authorities invited a
Maoriland team instead. They followed that
up by cancelling without notice an agree-
ment binding them not to hire Australians
to play with English clubs. In the face
of this double rebuff, the League, hungry for
“gates” at any cost, invited the insulters
to send another team to Australia (hoping,
as was said at the time, that a League
team would be bidden to visit Britain the
following season), and this was graciously
agreed to. Fortunately, the prestige won by
the Waratahs in Britain will obscure the
reputation gained there by the professional
body through these ignoble transactions.
The Waratahs deserve well of N. S. Wales.
A form of recognition that would delight
them all, and promote the good cause of
amateur sport as well, would be the secur-
ing of the Sydney Cricket Ground for a
fair share of the Rugby Union matches
played on Saturdays. This could be done
by the Government without cancelling the
lease to the professional crowd. A few
plain words of warding as to what will
happen when the lease runs out if the pro-
fessional crowd isn’t reasonable would be
sufficient.
The Australian swimming championships
saw N.S.W. retain the Kieran Shield with
a 5-point score, Westralia and Queensland
notching 8 each. “Brasher” Jones (West-
ralia) beat young Noel Ryan in the 880
yards in llmin. 14 2-ssec.. the fastest time
yet recorded in an
event over the distance. A Australian
record was Queenslander Tom Boast’s 100
yards backstroke in 10 3-ssec., while another
Northerner, Reg Grier, took the hundred in
56 4-ssec. Frank McCure scored for N.S.W.
in the 220 yards breast-stroke, done in 3min.
9 2-ssec.
(Continued on page f/2.)


g*w«or
tl QUEUB
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow
Shipped by
WM. GRANT & SONS. LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm oj Scotch Whisky Distillers.
ŗ
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: D'r. Mackay and B. Wood have
driven an Essex single-seater from Fremantle
to Sydney, 3106 miles, in 4 days 23 hours
and 5 minutes, knocking 22 hours 40 minutes
off the record. Without counting stops, the
car, a stock model, averaged 26 m.p.h. for
the run. Previous best times for the Fre-
mantle-Adelaide and Fremantle-Melbourne
journeys were also lowered. The doctor was
not called upon to exercise his skill on any
foot-passenger.
* :Jt :|c *
“C.Q.”: If there is anything in sugges-
tion, motorists who entered for the hill-
climbing trials arranged by the Automobile
Club of Vic. started under a severe handicap.
The steep and twisty bit of track goes under
the name of Spiller’s Hill. W. Whitbourn,
driving a Paige, covered the incline of 42
chains in 51 2-ssec., but Mrs. Dixon, in the
same make of car, wasn’t far behind with
lmiu. 8 4-ssec.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: There was some good riding
in the Australian professional motor-cycle
championships at Adelaide. Dean, the Syd-
ney rider, won the mile in great style from
a field that included “Sprouts” Elder
(U.S.A.), Vic Hifxley (Q.) and Taylor
(S.A.) ; he beat Taylor in the final in
67 3-ssec. In his heat against Huxley Dean
got over the mile in 65 3-ssec., cutting
4-ssec. off his previous best time (it was
claimed to be the world’s best also) for a
three-lap dirt track.
sp
“The Juice” : Cabled that Italy, following
the example of France, has decreed that all
petrol must be diluted Avith a fixed per-
centage of ethylic alcohol —alcohol not con-
vertible into a beverage for the ordinary
palate. France and Italy are intent on
freeing their internal combustion transport
as much as possible from dependence on
other countries for petroleum products. The
motor-car achievements of French and
Italian drivers do not suggest that the mix-
ture has been against remarkable speeds and
times.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: The professional team of
cyclists to represent Australia in the Tour
de Francfe, longest and stiffest of the world's
road races, comprises Opperman, Osborne and
Bainbridge (Vic.) and Watson (M.L.).
Moody (N.S.W.) and Einseidel (Vic.) are
emergencies. The team will land at Toulon
and be met by a manager selected by the
Dunlop Tyre Co. of France. It will be the
third band of Australians to have a shot at
the Tour de France, which includes the en-
circlement of France, with crossings of the
Alps and the Pyrenees, and there are high
hopes that it will be a case of “the third time
does it.” The calibre of the riders, one and
all, is very high.
Miscellaneous
“Zirk” : Can anyone tell me whether hot
pies increase or decrease a dog’s speed?
Just before the final of a whippet race in
Westralia the owner of a red-hot favorite
took his dog round the back of a “Housey”
stall and gave him two hot pies. Soon after
I noticed that the dog’s price had drifted
from even money to 3 to 1 in the under-the-
lap betting ring. The dog won, and the
owner didn’t look pleased with himself.
Hence the query.
s.* $ *
“Ces”: A notable sporting inn of other
days, the Oval Hotel at Diggers’ Rest (Vic.),
has been sold at auction. The Oval was in
the ’eighties the headquarters of the Vic.
Coursing Club; alongside the inn was a
plumpton—the first south of the equator—
which was for 14 years the venue of the
Waterloo Cup. The Cup was then for 64
dogs at £25 each, and betting was brisk;
when Rhodanthe won in 1883 the books
claimed to have lost £20,000. But the land
boom of the early ’nineties put most of the
big coursing men out of action, and by 1805
not even the 10ft. fence was left. The fol-
lowing year the V.C.C. transferred its opera-
tions to Moonee Valley racecourse, where it
remained until 1912. Since that year the
Waterloo has been run at Geelong.
* * * *
“Splash”: Noel Ryan, the 16-year-old
Manly (N.S.W.) swimmer, put up a new
Australian record for the mile in the race
for the Australian championship at Sydney
Domain baths last week. The youngster's
time was 23min. 18 l-ssec., 31 3-sscc. faster
than Frank Beaurepaire’s time. This is the
best thing done by an Australian swimmer
since Charlton broke into the game. Ryan
is not as good as Charlton was at the same
age, but he will improve.
* * * *
“Dohori”: It is marvellous how the Syd-
ney press keeps on the track of infant
phenomena in swimming, especially if they
are young females not long out of the
nursery. N.S.W. having been cleaned up
for the moment, one of the papers has dis-
covered to its own satisfaction and the con-
fusion of its reptile contemporaries that a
Japanese mite named Takai Yata lias reeled
off 100 metres in 75sec. —about as fast as
Johnny Weissmuller could do it feet fore-
most. Japan having been invaded, there
should be no limit to the new form of sport-
ing enterprise. There must be a lot of
potential flapper champions between, say,
the Morioris of the Chatham Islands and
the Esquimaux of the Arctic Circle, and
there can be no objection to the searchers
visiting either spot in search of fresh talent.
Indeed, the public would greatly appreciate
the kindly thought if they elected to settle
permanently in one place or the other.
* * * :Jc
“Tin God”: The vagaries of some of these
umpires and referees are enough to flatten
a grindstone into pancakes. The footfault
joke was hardly put to bed in the
Australian tennis tourney at Sydney when
news came of another purist, a Westralian
swimming umpire. A junia* swimmer named
McGlue beat the State ntle-holder, F. C.
Stevens, in the 440 yards breaststroke cham-
pionship. However, the boy was disqualified
for “incorrect leg action,” as he had been
previously in the 220 yards event. To the
non-elect, it is hard to sec what the leg
action matters as long as it shoves the
swimmer through the water fast enough.
The correct heel-and-toe action is insisted on
in walking races to prevent the action de-
veloping into running. Swimming seems to
be in another category altogether. As long
as McGlue swam on the breast, it doesn’t
seem to matter a hoot what he did with his
legs. However, if there were no errors made
or invented there would be no need for
umpires, and that would be unthinkable.
* :|: :!s :|c
“Slide” : There has been a palace revolu-
tion in N.S.W. rowing circles owing to
Mosman’s demand that the club crew should
be chosen to represent the State on the
Nepean in May. Actually four of the
Mosman crew, including the stroke, issued
the ultimatum. As a result the selectors
dropped the whole four, who in other circum-
stances would have been certain of selection,
and chose only one Mosman man, for No. 7.
The Mosman club has refused to ratify the
selection, as required by the rules, and un-
less there is a change of heart will not have
a representative in the State eight for the
first time for many years. Mosman cer-
tainly has some right to represent the
State, as other club crews have done else-
where, notably in South Australia and
Queensland. But no organisation could
overlook such a breach of discipline as that
involved in the ultimatum.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The announcement by
the N.S.W. Bowing Association that it was
inquiring into the amateur status of Pearce,
the sculler nominated to represent Australia
at the Olympiad, came as a surprise to the
followers of rowing in N.S.W. and other
States. So did the further explanation that
the N.S.W. body had been asked to take
action by the Ilenley-on-Yarra committee,
the latter having received an anonymous let-
J. BRUGNON, the French Davis Cup
player, who was defeated in the Aus-
tralian singles championship by R. O.
Cummings.
ter to the effect that Pearce had rowed as a
professional in N.S.W. A similar letter was
received by the N.S.W. body, which, after
investigation, has announced that no proof
can be found of the truth of the assertions
and that it will bother no more about the
matter. The amazing thing is that two such
bodies should have taken the slightest notice
of an anonymous communication.
* * if
“Burgee”: The racing for the Forster Cup
for 21ft. yachts, held in Sydney last week,
ended in a triumph for the Tasmanian
holders of the trophy; their two craft, Tassy
and Tassy Too, owned and sailed by the two
brothers W. P. and H. Batt, cleared the
board in their class. Tassie Too is a new
boat, built as an offsider to her older sister,
which has twice won the Cup for Tasmania.
She proved the more successful of the pair,
winning two of the three heats of the race,
Tassy taking the first. Tassy also won the
inter-State race for 21’s at the Anniversary
Regatta, and the President’s Cup.
* * sjs *
“Spike”: The N.S.W. athletic champion-
ships will occupy six days this year, com-
mencing on February 25. Sydney Sports
Ground is the arena chosen, and considerable
additions have been made to the programme,
though one regrets to see that the silly and
growing custom of providing field events for
women o t serious occasions of this sort has
ALEXIS ALBERT, owner of the yacht
Norn, which successfully. defended the
Sayonara Cup for Sydney against the
Victorian challenger, Acrospire.
not been squelched. In addition to the De-
cathlon, a Pentathlon on Olympic lines has
been added; this will include a 200-metres
race, as well as one of 1500 metres. The
Victorian cracks, Watson and Whyte, have
been invited to compete, and it is hoped to
see the latter in action against Stuart. It
is probable, too, that Lane, the Victorian
schoolboy sprinter, who is credited with
having broken evens for the 100, will also
attend to give Carlton a fly for it.
* Hs :J: ije
“Gate” : The little birds in the nest of the
Australian Rugby League Board of Control
continue to disagree, though there are only
two of them, N.S.W. and Q. This was
evident at the recent meeting of the N.S.W.
League, when the delegates to the board were
instructed to vote for the reversion to the
original principle that N.S.W. should have
the right of electing the chairman, that
right having been conceded to the Queens-
landers, as one of the speakers said, to keep
them quiet. It was further stated that the
N.S.W. body didn’t care a hang whether
the board lived or died, since the Ma State
was quite able itself to control and manage
tours abroad, as it had done in the past.
Someone else opined that the Queenslanders
needed watching very carefully, and the
meeting broke up conveying the general im-
pression that the inhabitants of the country
to the north of the N.S.W. border were
equipped with horns and tails.
* * * *
“Tout-en-Noir”: The Frenchman as a
footballer cannot be accused of want of vari-
ety. When he is not kissing the skipper
of the opposing team or chasing the referee
to the shades of the dressing-room, he is
showing unexpectedly brilliant football, as
against the Waratalis, or doing something
else out of the ordinary. One of the French-
men in the international match against the
Waratahs attempted to screw an opponent’s
neck. There was nothing extraordinary in
that, or in the swift retaliation that fol-
lowed (another Waratah stoushed him), but
there is in the fact that the poor chap was
not only sent off the field but forbidden to
attend the dinner at which the opposing
teams fought their battle over again. I can
remember matches, and big ones at that,
when a similar policy would have left no
one but the waiters and (per'haps) the
referee to eat the banquet, as they liked to
call it in those days, with perhaps some
official who was too old to “dong” anybody
thrown in as a makeweight.
* * * *
“F.Vr.”: The popular notion that the ice-
skater can travel faster than the man on
foot is correct; it is “Acme” who is wrong
(B. 12/l/’2B). To get an idea of what
can be done on skates we must go . to countries
like Norway, S-weden, Finland and Russia.
Forty-three to 44sec. is no exceptional time
in those places for the 500 metres —between
Bsec. and 9sec. to the 100 metres, say. The
ped. who can do the like isn’t born yet and
never will be.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Old Lace”: Apparently there isn’t much
doing in the matrimonial market these days.
A fed-up girl of my acquaintance chanced a
couple of shillings and got one reply. She
opened it hopefully, and then decided that,
anyhow, she wasn’t as desperate as the
writer. He regretted (he said) that he was
married, but he was in the wicker-goods line
(card enclosed), and would she remember
him if presently she happened to want any-
thing in the w r ay of perambulators, etc.
*•* *l* v
“Ula”: A machine invented by a Vic-
torian (J. O’Connell) for the manufacture
of butter has just been shipped to the
U.S.A., the patent-rights for that country
having been purchased by a New York firm.
The machines, which weigh five tons each
and turn out a ton of butter per hour, are
installed in several Victorian butter
factories. A Danish churn manufacturer
has already purchased the European rights.
❖ sjt :J:
“B-Gar”: Botlnvick’s, Ltd., with Army
and Navy contracts to fill for John Bull,
are to operate at the Sellheim works (N.Q.)
this season, and their buyers are already out
inspecting likely lots of cattle in the Gulf
country and in Western Queensland. There
are plenty of fat cattle available, but until the
northern meatworks come out with their
prices growers will be anxiously watching
the inter-State and Smithfield markets. The
sheep kings have been on a good wicket
for so many years that nobody will grudge
the cattlemen a look in if luck should be
coming their way at last.
* s': *
“Lao-dah”: The bringing out of the two
supermarine Southampton flying-boats to
the order of the It.A.A.F. involved some
effort. The two largest packing-cases ever
landed in Australia had to be made for
them. The route from the Ferndale at
Victoria Dock, Melbourne, to Point Cooke
had to be specially surveyed to make sure
that there was clearance under bridges and
overhead wires, and motorists were warned
to keep a lookout for the ponderous cara-
van. Special hangars have been built and
the slipway enlarged. The leviathians are
nearly 50 feet in length, and there are 75
feet between their wingtips.
%• * * !jS
A tiny building in Swanston-street, Mel-
bourne, a little south of Bourke-street, has
just been sold at £2127 a foot on the frontage
of 14ft. lOin. with a depth of 63ft. 6in.
This is the highest figure reached during the
present boom, although the £200,000 paid for
Cole’s Book Arcade was supposed to mark
the crest of the wave.
••is * * *
This season’s wine output of South Aus.
is estimated on tabulated information at
14,000,000 gallons, as against 16,000,000 last
year. Much of the country north of Adelaide
got the tail end of the awful frost that swept
the river Murray, and so has a reduced crop.
Magill and Reynella and the other southern
vineyards are, however, undamaged. But the
said frost is going to reduce the vintage fur-
ther by a side-line. It was so damaging to
currants that these have had a big rise in
price, and many growers who used to send
the small stuff to the crushers will now dry
and sell.
.** * *
“M.G.S.”: Two Victorians appear to
have stumbled on or worked out a new dis-
covery in dyeing, for which the whole world
has been waiting. This is a means of
“dyeing down,” or dyeing dark fabrics a
lighter color. In Melbourne alone there are
millions of material on milliners’ shelves
which have been rendered unsaleable because
capricious fashion has gone up the scale of
color a tone or so. The first to announce
the achievement was G. F. Lloyd, an
amateur, who has been working on the pro-
blem for five years; but promptly on his
heels came S. Kronenberg, a professional
dyer, who claims to have been using a
process successfully for some time without
realising its immense commercial possi-
bilities. The Herald staged a test of their
rival claims, giving each half a black stock-
ing to be dyed champagne. Mr. Lloyd’s effort
was a brilliant success, but Mr. Kronenberg's
bit of hose, after coming out champagne,
turned back to blue.
* * * *
“Ahab Muldoon”: I use a safety-razor, for
which I have been-in the habit of buying
Canadian-made blades at eighteenpence for
five. I saw some German blades widely
vaunted at the same price, and having
sampled the same am convinced that there is
nothing to choose between the two makes.
What perplexes me is which sort I ought to
buy, for the Canadian-made article, which
enjoys a Customs preference over the German
depilator, is really the subsidiary organisa-
tion of a Yankee concern. If I buy the
American blades the profit will doubtless
find its way into the already-groaning coffers
of Uncle Sam, whereas if I favor Fritz's
make I shall be assisting our own Customs
revenue. The best way out of the dilemma
seems to be to grow a beard.


ř
British Bearings
The amazing growth in popularity of R. & M.
British Bearings is not due to patriotic reasons alone
—but is the natural result of the care and precision
in manufacture and the consequent advantages they
embody.
r|m
&VGLANO
BALL $ ROLLER
BEARINGS
have proved their efficiency to such an extent that they
are now used by more than 80 per cent, of British Motor-
car Manufacturers.
These British Bearings have more than justified their claims
for dependability, economy, safety and endurance—and
wherever they are used turn Friction into Fiction.
Made in Sizes and Types for all automobile and industrial
engineering uses.
Exclusive Commonwealth Agents and Distributors —
GARDNER, WAERN S CO. Ply., Ltd.
r
MELBOURNE: 481 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: Hunter Street West.
South Australian Agents: ADELAIDE HARDWARD
00., Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Tasmanian Agents: W. & G. GENDERS PTY., LTD.,
HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Queensland Agents: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD.,
BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE.
WEST AUS. AGENTS: (Automotive) COVENTRY
MOTOR CO., PERTH. (ludustrial) FtOWER,
DAVIES i& JOHNSON, LTD., PERTH.
BUVBRITISH BEARINGS
////./
I I
U I /
/ /
ŕ
There’s a
big, responsibility
attached to your coaster hub.
It must give smooth, effortless
running, and it must pull you up
the moment you press your foot
back there must be no uncer-
tainty and no risk.
The B.W. Coaster Hub amply
fulfils these conditions. Its
perfectly
dustproof sVie 11
ensures sweet running, its
wide braking surface means
perfect safety.
It is a product of Bayliss, Wiley
& Co. Ltd., Birmingham, England
represented in Australia by
JOHN - ARNOLD (De Graves
Street, Melbourne).
r ££SU£
k
bBB
/
fh!
V//.
\
10,000.000 RUBBER TREES
10.000 WORKERS~supplythe rubber
for your Money
Plenty of rubber —not only where
you can see it, but deep down in
the invisible cord fabric of the tyres.
Pure rubber—plenty of rubber—
at every point of stress and strain.
U.S. ROYAL CORDS live extra-
ordinarily long lives because they
are more than a match for the
drawn-out ordeal of months and
months of rough roads.
U.S. ROYAL
CORD
BALLOONS
ŗ
t,US2
Distributors —
UNITED STATES RUBBER CO. (A’SIA), LTD.,
11l Margaret Street Brisbane. ’Phone 4250.
UNITED STATES RUBBER CO. (A’SIA), LTD.,
517 Collins Street, Melbourne. Central 9437.
UNITED STATES RUBBER CO. (A’SIA), LTD.,
195 Flinders. Street, Adelaide. ’Phone 6246.
UNITED STATES RUBBER CO. (A’SIA), LTD.,
439 Kent Street, Sydney. ’Pho'ne M 2031 (4 lines)
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD.,
894 Hay Street, Perth. ’Phone A 3151 (4 lines)
~<n>
9
1)
r>
OSO
FLUID MAGNESIA
ftLTM UllllAtt I Cf ■tLB
INDIGESTION.
This Popular family Remedy prospers
Because those who take it prosper.
Recommended by Doctors as the safest
and most dependable Children’s Medicine
Cooling in Swnmer. Reliable Always >
The Genuine Kruse's is made by
Felton, Crimwade & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne
This year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin” —bigger and better.


Under
Royal
Warrant
r
To H.M.
GeorgeV
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
mmiMS
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
Champagne
GiarleslleidsiecK
Reims
V
t ***‘ t ® (?• u) ,at>o! **
PELLSSSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrerta
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Wire Accommodation.
HCMEL
Cable Address: “Alum.”
THE pinnacle of Hotel per-
fection.
HOT and Cold running water
and Telephones in every
bedroom.
Private suites de luxe. A
haven of simple luxury.
THE HOTEL YOU HAVE
BEEN LOOKING FOR
Combining the best features of
CUISINE, COMFORT AND
SERVICE.
Sydney s most spacious and
lovely lounge.
TARIFF: Rooms with Breakfast from 17/-. Inclusive Board from 26/-
ADDRESS: LANG STREET, SYDNEY.
m 7hp centre of Queens /anc/s
Oy/ ctis/ingu/Sfad Soc/o/ Life.
Wote I
RDTCB
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
tele mams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Line*
ŕ
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY
Kayser
SLIPPER HEEL
[?]
STOCKINGS
The dances and parties staged by the
N.S.W. Tennis Association for the visiting
French players have been rather pallid
affairs, but there was a bit of a sparkle
about the French Alliance gathering in
Sargent’s ballroom in honor of the bound-
ing Basque, the steady Brugnon and the
baby of the party, Boussus. The French
and Australian flags fluttered on a surge
of patriotism as the Marseillaise rang out,
and France’s Consul-General Nettement
greeted the visitors. And then it seemed as
though the whole French community was
turning over a new leaf of its autograph-
album. Girls and boys, men and women,
made a fluttering descent on Brugnon
and Boussus, who with untiring patience
wrote their names again and again without
a sign of hand-faulting. Borotra’s first
partner was Mrs. Bonnet, wife of the presi-
dent of the Alliance; while Mrs. Spitzer,
wife of him who manages the French bank,
flashed a trail of opalescent sequins around
the room under Brugnon’s steady guidance.
The Belgian Consul and his lady, as well as
the Greek Consul-General couple, were
among the important people present. The
French Consul’s little wife wore a white
georgette dress starry with diamente, and
jetted black enswathed Miss Soubeiran.
Pleasant and informal was the farewell
of LI.M.A.S. Melbourne to Sydney waters.
Wrapped in moonlight, awninged in red and
white stripes, and debonair with lanterns,
the war-boat lay alongside Garden Island.
To her breeze-swept decks purred busy pin-
naces laden with chiffons and sequins and
lace and uniforms. Of the chiffons perhaps
the most attractive were those that, pome-
granate and begemmed, swathed Mary Lang-
tree. Silver and blue, that criticism-proof
combination, mingled in Mrs. Guthrie Rob-
inson’s attire. Mrs. H. B. Farncombe chose
black tulle, and Mrs. Boyd wore her black
georgettes heavily crystallised. Commodore
Hyde, who leaves for England this, week, was
one among the evening’s merry and bright.
A party every day was the joyful round
of George Fuller’s lady last week. It made
one think of the small girl who, hearing that
a chum had died from an overdose of ice-
cream on top of hot plum-pudding, exclaimed
enviously : “What a jolly death !” However,
the guest triumphed over the cream-puffs and
presented a smiling face to the members of
the Women’s National Club on Friday. Pre-
mier Bavin’s lady presided and sang the
Fullers’ farewell praises. When George
Fuller himself got up and told, among other
things, lio.w he’d fallen in love with the
golden-haired girl, then one of the best horse-
women on the South Coast, his lady blushed
becomingly over her equally becoming bur-
gundy outfit.
George Fuller’s lady declared the other
afternoon that when she takes up her new
duties in London as wife of the Agent-
General she intends to be tactful. That
virtue must have been well practised already
by her, judging by the hundreds of women
who turned up to murmur their farewells on
the most sweltering day of the week. The
Society of Women Painters was the insti-
gator of the flutter, and over 400 women
in colorful summer finery arrived in time to
form a guard of honor that looked more like
a beflowered aisle in some gaily-blooming
garden. From the foot of the entrance stair-
way into the ballroom the lily-leaf greens,
the rosy pinks, the cornflower blues —in
short, the complete chiffon and silk stocks
of several drapery firms—stirred and fluttered
with the admiration of their wearers when
the guest of the afternoon smilingly walked
its length. As faintly yellow as a primrose
early astir in the shadow of the Ilokanuis
was the lady’s jumper-suit, with which was
worn a summer felt of the same hue. An
old-fashioned ring posy of pink roses handed
over by Mrs. Hyman at an early stage
brought forth a murmur of applause which
deepened over the ivory-bound presentation-
books containing the names of the hostesses
and guests of the day. In this are also a
small water-color and a set of verse by
George Taylor, probably the last bit of artis-
tic work the versatile little man did in this
world. Th.e absence of Mrs. Taylor was
sympathetically referred to by both Dame
Mary Cook and Lady Fuller. A map of
Australia picked out in pink roses and del-
phiniums was the floral masterpiece of the,
table decorations.
Pretty Nancy Marsden, who looked so
attractive and sang so sweetly on many a
concert platform, is to be married in Lon-
don towards the middle of the year. Nancy
is the only daughter of the Charles Mars-
den couple, and a niece of the Spencer
Bruntons; for some years she studied voice
production abroad, and on her return to
Sydney she made her first public appear-
ance as soloist at one of Bertie Kelly’s
Quartet evenings in Beale’s music-hall.
Later on she appeared with many of the
musical societies. Before she left last year
with Margaret Chalmers she staged a
recital at a Conservatorium in aid of the
Library of the British Music Society. The
lucky young man is Dr. Edwin Calvert, a
liarley-street specialist.
The stained-glass windows of St. Pat’s
on Church Hill glowed mellow on a prePv
country bride last week, when Wylda Egan,
daughter of the J. Egans of Snowball station,
Gundagai, became Mrs. A. J. Crowe of
Coolac. Lilac-pink georgettes, silver lame,
and pale-pink tulle were mingled in the
wedding raiment. Sister Joy walked de-
murely after the bride in sunset blues and
pinks. Romano’s spread the feast under the
direction of the bride’s parents.
The P. and 0. Company is lending the
Mooltan for the Royal Life Saving Society’s
ball on March 5. But the firm is not pro-
viding the supper, so the R.L.S. are supply-
ing nourishment themselves. Decorations of
great beauty are planned for the dancing
dicks. One of the saloons will be reserved
for card-players, and there will be a special
roofed-in parking place for cars.
While Premier T. R. has been after trout
in the State’s mountain streams and in
Maonland, Mrs. Edyth Bavin has been
putting the finishing touches on a charming
sheaf of kiddie verse, which has just been
published. All the matter in it is fresh with
simplicity and cheerfulness—just the sort of
little verse stories the very tiny tots love to
have read to them. Two other ladies —
Bertha Sloane and Margot E'inlayson—
contribute a host of suitable illustrations.
The “Know Australia” group of the
American Women’s Circle chose as their
first guide down the new-old track Margaret
Windeyer, of the Mitchell Library. Perhaps
nobody can make the story of ‘old Sydney
so vivid as this clever member of a brilliant
family. Margaret Windeyer can claim to be
the first woman librarian in Sydney, but it
was in the public libraries of New York,
encouraged by her father, the famous Judge,
that she first started on her career. Last week
she told an absorbed audience of the days
when the Tank Stream was an essential part
of Sydney; and under her graphic spell pad-
docks and bits of bush became cleared and
bisected by roads, which gradually developed
into the streets named after Macquarie,
Phillip, Bent, Bligli, Macleay and other by-
gone celebrities. The first talk was vored
a complete success, and is to be followed by
a series lasting throughout the year.
Can you push away the walls of a hot
little street and turn it into the Spanish
Main? Can you by the movement of a hand
open the gateway of fairyland for a little
girl who has never known any other play-
ground than a back yard? By devotion and
self-sacrifice, the girl in this picture has
found ways of doing such things. She is
Elsie _ Rivett. With her sister Mary she
organised the Children’s Library in Devon-
shire-street, Surry Hills, and through hot
days and cold
days, moo n-
liglit nights
and wet
nights, she
sticks to her
s e 1 f-imposed
task, making
the kiddies of
that arid
neighborhood
free of the
garden of
romance. The
library is a
cosy place with
its islands of
grass mats on
a warm brown
sea of polished
boards. Here
and there piles
of gay cushions
lure young
bodies with
their vivid plumpness. Large tables and
small tables, surrounded by chairs of cor-
responding height, and book shelves that can
be reached even by the tiniest one are the
chief furnishings. Nor must mention be
omitted of a cuckoo clock and bowls of
flowers—these last distributed among the
eager youngsters when closing time comes
Very gay are the walls with their frieze of
posters, but no gayer than the small girls
in the multi-colored play aprons which the
keepers of the library provide. The library
needs £2OO a year for running expenses, and
m addition there is of course the necessity
ot keeping the shelves well-filled. If you
can give some time and money to help the
work, or a little of either, the lady in the
picture will be glad to hear from you.
Women in town and country will be glad
to learn of the reorganisation of the Women’s
Handicrafts’ Association, which put up the
shutters at its depot in Beaumont House last
December. It has started on a new lease
of life under the same name at 106 b King-
street, second floor. Members are already
planning a wealth of stitchery and embroid-
ery for the November exhibition, which will
be held as usual in the Education Depart-
ment’s Gallery. In the meantime, those
wanting trousseaux and table-linen will find
exquisite samples of work at the room over
King-street.
Doris Bunyan looked a happy pilgrim as
she made her progress up the aisle of St.
Pat’s on Church Hill last week. Her objec-
tive was matrimony in the person of Vincent
Scully, of Cassi Us. White georgette, cloud-
like on a rosy lining, blushed through the
billows of tulle that formed the bridal
veil and then foamed off into the train. There
followed one ’maid, all gold lustre and wil-
low-pattern blue.
Lovers of Australian verse, and indeed
lovers of the music of words the world over,
take leave of David McKee Wright with
real grief. Deeply erudite, he was a man on
whom schol-
arly attain-
ments sat
lightly; but out
of that trea-
sure - store of
his he gave
lavishly to the
beginner or the
almost-worked-
out of his fel-
low-craftsmen.
Fo r ma n y
years lie was
tli e literary
judge for The
Bulletin, and
in that time
the polished
ivory of his
suave style en-
riched ill a n y
a halting line
of verse; he
smoothed away
angularities in prose as skilfully. A facile
writer, he was equally at home telling of
Greece or mediaeval Italy or the wind-blown
gums in his beloved Blue Mountains. But
it was to the legends and folk-lore of his
native Ireland that his inmost heart was
given. “An Irish Heart” and the series of
old Irish plays are living witnesses to this.
David was buried last Monday in the Church
of England Cemetery at Emu Plains.
Boots, boots, boots! They were never the
nightmare to Kipling’s Tommy that they are
to social service worker Miss Boswell, as
she sits in the crypt under St. James’s in
King-street. But her fear is that she won’t
garner in enough of the “used” article to
equip the feet of her army of poor men.
Boots and left-off suits will be given a grand
reception at the crypt on February 10.
Florence Irene Fulljames, of Tamwortli,
drifted into St. Mary’s on a surf of Iloniton
lace and tulle one night last week, and ’mid
the splendor of cactus-dahlias and the scent
of the tuberose pledged her life to Arthur
Osgood Carter, of Linton, Barraba. Father
Edward O’Donnell blessed the vows, and
bride’s sister, Mrs. Stanley Fowler, was
matron of honor in a bronze gold confection
of lace with which she contrasted an armful
of pink blooms. The drawing-room of the
Australia swooned on a sea of perfume from
the massed roses and tiger-lilies during the
reception, and here the bride’s mother beamed
greetings above black Chantilly lace and red
roses.
The Lyceum Club has never seen such a
tight fit of members as on the night the club
farewelled Mrs. A. G. Thomas, its president,
who leaves for Europe early this month.
Rose Soley, the little lady who founded the
Lyceum in Australia, made one of her infre-
quent evening appearances. Women poets
and novelists and a few aspiring playwrights
were there. Among the younger was Jessie
Urquhart, fresh from her travels. Mary Gil-
more and Mrs. Holman were notable among
the embroiderers in ink. Acting-president
Mrs. William Moore, herself a poet, did the
honors in a spreading frock of floral taffetas,
exact to period, with fichu and everything.
Between the exchange of tributes, floral and
verbal, slim Ethelwyn Kirk, from Wellington
(M.L.), looking like a George Meredith
heroine in her powdered hair and hooped
black velvets, sat at the piano and decanted
music of Early English and Italian vintage.
Later she played the accompaniments while
Miss Deane, powdered and patched and in
a period frock of old-rose brocades, sang songs
written in that long ago when minstrels sang
because they were happy. Mrs. A. G. Thomas,
looking more than ever like a delicate pencil-
point, wore her fine profile above black lace.
The blaze of illuminations over Cooee
City put the lighting arrangements of the
heavens to shame last Saturday when the
Y.A.L. enterprise flung its challenge to the
velvet night. Unfortunately the lights were
the only thing which thousands of would-be
visitors were destined to see. Some humorist
or over-anxious organiser had issued invi-
tations broadcast. These bore instructions
that they were to be presented at the Mem-
bers’ Gate; and a legend over that portal
ran: “Invitations only.” At 7.15 crowds
clutching these cards stood like patient and
bewildered cattle outside the closed gate, and
at half-past eight there was still a multi-
tude there. About this time mothers and
fathers began to shepherd their unwilling
offspring towards the waiting railway and
quay trams. Small boys shrilly implored
a longer wait—“ Perhaps the gates would be
opened again.” “Never mind,” a neighbor
said to one youngster trailing after a young
mother with a baby in her arms, “You can
come another night.” The small boy shook
his head. “No,” lie said, “we can’t. We’ve
spent the tram money!” But it wasn’t only
the inviteds who were barred out. It had
been a case of a full “city” within a few
minutes of opening the gates. After that,
not even Rockefeller’s millions could have
bought a view of the chief attraction —the
first goat-race ever held in Sydney.
The English-Speaking Union will once
more masquerade in Sliakspeareau charac-
ters at the. yearly ball. This year the
Wentworth will be the stage on which good
Queen Bess, Portia, Hamlet, Juliet, Romeo
and the rest will step and pose their little
hour or two. The decision was come to at
last week’s meeting of the union, where a
general committee was formed and a further
meeting arranged for February 27 at Frazer
House.
There surely should be a special camp on
the Delectable Plains for Florence Gordon
who died last week at Newport, and Abraham
himself should lead her to it. For the lady
had ever in mind the well-being of those who
tended the flocks and grain out back, and it
was the result of her thoughtfulness and
practical suggestion that the Country
Women’s Association was founded. Miss
Gordon, who was well known as a journalist,
originally hailed from Scotland; it was while
writing for Country Life, at that time the
Stock and Station Journal, that she
evolved her scheme. What the C.W.A. has
meant to the country mother and baby, only
they can tell. There are now 9000 members
in the association ; no Australian woman ever
builded a finer monument to herself.
Died at Lewisham Hospital this month,
Sister Mary Elizabeth, of the Good Samari-
tan Order, Glebe Point, Sydney. Before
entering the cloister she was known as Miss
Sarah Octavia Brennan, M.A., B.Sc.; she
was the first woman to take the M.A. degree
at Sydney University. She was a daughter
of the late Martin Brennan, police super-
intendent.
When Nora Clare Quinn slipped quietly
away into eternity a week or so ago, poet
Rod lost one of his best friends and greatest
admirers. For Nora Clare has been a de-
voted sister, and for a lifetime has made one
of the trio in the little family of two sisters
and the singing brother. Nora Clare, like all
the Quinns, was something of a poet herself.
She was born in the old home at Woolloo-
mooloo in the days when that was a peaceful
family suburb. She was buried in Waverley
Cemetery.
Winifred Moore, one of Queensland’s
brightest women journalists, passed through
Sydney last week on her way to Melbourne
to link up with education-expert Freda Bage.
From there the twain and another two will
travel north in F'reda’s new car, arriving in
Sydney to-day or to-morrow. Poetess Alice
Gore-Jones, from Brisbane, will also make
Sydney her holiday headquarters this sum-
mer.
A salary of £lOOO a year and a free life
insurance policy of £2OOO are the induce-
ments offered by the Australian Inland
Mission to their first flying doctor. The
aerial medico will have a practice unequalled
for size in the world. The job has attracted
30 applicants, ranging in age from 26 up-
wards. Some have aviation experience in
the war among their credentials.
Among this month’s quiet parties one of
the happiest was the welcome extended by
the Council of Jewish Women to Mrs. E. R.
Isaacs, president of the Queensland council.
The drawing-room of the Carlton was plea-
santly filled by richly-dressed daughters of
Sydney Jewry, and there was a friendliness
about the function that even the speeches
couldn’t spoil—rather they seemed to deepen
it. The Queensland president shimmered in
black sequins; Dr. Fanny Reading in flame
Georgettes was the mouthpiece for the Syd-
ney branch of the society.
Lovers of instrumental music are to have
poor pasturage this year. With two grand
opera companies—Fullers starting in March
and J. C. Williamson’s forces making a
grand clean-up of the city’s available cash
about June or July— concert managers are
hedging on the soloist. Also the local musical
and choral societies expect a bit of a freeze.
Sydney’s wage envelope won’t run to every-
thing, and the fetich of grand opera is a
powerful one.


JJARDY BRQTHERSS
ATTRACTIVE PRESENTS
FOR THE HOME
Hardy’s collection of gifts which are suit-
able for the home is without rival in
Australia for variety and value. Here
are typical examples. Selections will be
sent on approval to any address.
2903. —Solid Silver Sugar Basin, Cream Jug
and Tongs, in velvet-lined case. A gift of
utility and charm.
£7/7/-
2905. —Silver Butter Dish,
with glass lining and Silver
Butter Knife, in velvet-
lined case, £3
2901. —Pair of Pierced Silver Sweet Pishes
in velvet-lined case. Diameter 3J inches.
£2/16/-
2902. —Bronzed Brass Fern
Pot. Diameter 91 inches.
Height 8 inches. A useful
and attractive gift, 20/-
Five per cent, discount allowed lor Cash.
Hardy’s New Catalogue will be sent, post free, to any address.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
( 3lie c HbiL&t oP EoecluswC'ZJewelUnj
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
1 16-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
SHORT SKIRTS
and
The Finest Silk Stockings
Society Makes a New Choice
Although Fashion reports from France indicate that dresses are to
be worn slightly longer this Winter, frocking at recent social gatherings
in Sydney and Country Race Meetings show that our girls are not likely
to follow Paris too closely.
We note that many of the evening frocks
worn at the Bong Bong Race Dance were
decidedly longer, but were mostly of irregu-
lar length and of thin, clinging material,
the georgette overdresses being sufficiently
transparent to show the graceful curves
of the stockings, which in most cases har-
monised with the frock.
For street wear Australian girls will always
prefer the freedom of short skirts. Sheer
stockings are still muah in favor, and
almost everywhere the finest possible Hose
is worn for both formal and informal
occasions.
The big hosiery firm of Bond’s have lately
placed an exceptionally fine pure silk stock-
ing on the market, and the writer of the
social news in one of our leading dailies
has noticed much of this particular Hose
in evidence at recent society functions.
It is indeed gratifying to see that bit by
bit the prejudice against Australian clothes
is dying. When society agrees with the
suitableness of any particular make of gar-
ments, it is usually sufficient guarantee
that they are quite as smart and as good
as they have been accustomed to buying
from overseas.
On making inquiries it is said that the
stocking referred to is the famous “Mono-
Sylk,” which we understand is the only
pure silk sheer stocking being made in
Australia. In this stocking the fashion
marking has been so successfully carried
out that it is often taken for full-fashioned
hose.
To see how quickly Bond’s great organisation
is recovering from its recent troubles speaks
volumes for the quality of their products
and the appreciation of the public. Now
that society has found in the Bond’s range
a stocking of sufficient quality for dress
occasions there seems to be every prospect
of some of the higher-priced imported
hosiery lines losing favor.
FASHION SAYS NEW SHADES FOR
WINTER.
Flesh and Nude colorings are not to be
worn this winter. Grey is at present greatly
in demand. Here again Bond’s have gone
ahead of fashion and already are offering
two charming shades in Grey. There is
Silver Tinsel, a delightful shade, ever so
soft, and Oyster, which is ideal when darker
shades are being thought of.
Probably one of the reasons for the great
popularity of this new stocking is the fact
that it is made in four distinct styles. In
one the Lace Clox are from the knee,
another has dainty Lace Clox from the
ankle. The Embroidered Clox are par-
ticularly smart with evening frocks. Per-
haps the plain are the most suitable for
evening wear, and from recent observations
it seems that it is this line that has come
so much into favor. The selling price is
7/6. So can anyone wonder that the
demand is so heavy?
City, suburban and country stores are
never slow in being informed on what is
going to be asked for most. To-day Bond’s
report that stocks of Mono-Sylk are being-
held by practically every retailer through-
out Australia.
SILK UNDERWEAR ESSENTIAL TO
EXPENSIVE FROCIvING.
Silk Underwear seems to have almost dis-
placed “Cotton.” Everywhere the shops are
teeming with endless varieties and styles
of these dainties, and w T ord comes from
Bond’s that they too have supplied shops
all over Australia with almost every con-
ceivable style of Silk Underwear—these
garments are known as Nu-Ra-On, and cer-
tainly reflect great credit on the company.
The shades are delicate and the softness
of this “Silk” fabric is wonderfully like
pure silk. When asked to-day which line
was proving the most popular, the manager
of Bond’s Underwear Department stated
that the call for all sizes in Bloomers and
Vests was extraordinary. There is really
little wonder at this when it is realised
that the Bloomers sell at 5/11, and the
Vests at 4/11.
Every store seems anxious to show Bond’s
Hosiery and Underwear, and with the prices
the same everywhere, a great feeling of
confidence prevails.
P. 8 0. Excursions to Ceylon
£?! /iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinn^
THE TAJ MAHAL
Eighteen days aboard a magnificent P. & O.
Liner offer complete relaxation and enjoyment.
Then comes Ceylon, a dazzling medley of
native bazaars and imposing hotels, tea-
gardens set in green palms and gay flowers,
age-old Buddhist temples, tropical jungle,
buried cities and novel rickshaws drawn by
eager human horses.
Ptan this delightful pleasure trip with the P. & O.
Return fares by special Excursion are £65 first
saloon and £42 second, from Sydney.
r
P. & o.
Royal Mail Line
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.,
Agents,
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Remember those who
A
v** A
*7
©
K
SOLDIE rS
dav
AppE^bi
answered the
CALL!
For Diggers and Their
Dependants Help is
Needed.
There is a Pleasant Way
to Render it—
Come to the Carnival
in Martin Place.
Spend Joyously and
Bring Joy to Others,
All profits from Soldiers' Day
Appefal go direct to the
United Returned Soldiers'
Fund.
Soldiers Day
'Jriday 24 ' Feb.
'Blu/ a oattau


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
m
' u ;' "
Q3u
a.-::
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
is now to be found in the old Banquet Hall. It has its own entrance
(and efficient lift service) in Rowe Street, but access may also be
had from the main vestibule. A more informal room, the Grill
admirably supplements the Dining-room. Here you may dine
sumptuously or simply as the occasion suggests. The service and
cuisine are such as to delight and satisfy the most exacting.
“The Australia”
Capital Paid-up, £122,WO.
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH, SYDNEY
“After all, there’s only ONE
‘Australia’.”
A wonderful
bodu builder
ŕ
is always
fresh & pure
*
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
The weather was more than kind for the
celebration of Australia’s 140th birthday.
Grey clouds in the early morning gave way to
blue skies, and a cool breeze tempered the warm
sunshine. Crowds trooped through the rock-
eries of the Alexander Gardens, ablaze with
dahlias, phlox, and hollyhocks, on their way
to the Henley lawns to watch the A.N.A.
regatta. Motor-cars brought a few more
thousands to the rendezvous, and some fine
tussles were witnessed between the oarsmen.
Canoe races added a spice of variety. The
handsome tea-house on the lawn, which
housed a rowing club dinner in the evening,
did a brisk business.
The civic welcome to Brigadier-General
Cliampain, general secretary of the British
Red Cross, brought out a great array of
first-aiders and ambulancers, and Health-
Minister Beckett was there to represent the
State Government. The Morell lady, in
a floral-patterned frock and black hat, had a
bouquet of crimson roses for the General’s
slim, dark-haired wife, who wore navy-blue
georgette and taffeta topped by a large cream
straw hat banded with navy velvet. Sheila
Morell looked smart in amber-hued georgette
with millinery to match. There were some
short but cordial speeches of welcome, and
a brief friendly reply by the guest of honor.
The annual Red Cross meeting at Gov-
ernment House, with Lady Stonehaven in
the chair as president of the Central Council,
was mostly a tea-party, but it wasn’t a dressy
affair by any means. Her Ex. looked charm-
ing in pale-amber-colored, eyelet-embroidered
lawn topped by a black crinoline hat. Brig-
adier*-Gener,al Cliampain was one of the
speakers. Secretary Philadelphia Robert-
son’s beige georgette frock was allied to a
pale gold ballibuntel straw fiat. Tributes
were paid to the late Earl Haig, and a greet-
ing from the great soldier, penned a few
weeks before his death, was read. After the
business meeting her Ex. held a sort of
reception, General Cliampain and his wife
joining in the handshaking. Feminine
notabilities present were Mrs. S. M. Bruce,
in a gown of beige georgette with a black
hat; the Irvine Fraser and Miller ladies, the
last-named in a black gown trimmed with
ecru lace and black hat; Mrs. Percy Russell;
and Mrs. Gilruth.
Soldiers’ wives and mothers rolled up in
full force for their Friendly Union’s first
social gathering of the year, at the Oddfel-
lows’ Hall, Latrobc-street, despite a torren-
tial downpour. Courtney Dix, who bore
greetings from former patronesses Viscoun-
tess Novar and Lady Forster, gave an
account of his recent travels, and there was
an excellent musical programme arranged
for by Mrs. Matthews. Then there was
tea and chatter.
St. Joseph’s, Malvern, was opened early
the other morning to unite a daughter of the
T. M. Kennedys, of Malvern, and James, only
son of the late D. Wyles couple. The bride-
groom is a bank officer, and was lately skip-
per of the Armadale cricket eleven. The
bride, who was one of the St. Vincent nurses,
faced the altar in a gown of silver lamd
garnished with lace, over which flowed a veil
of Honiton lace lined with tulle and caught
with sprays of orange-blossoms. Mino and
Marie Kennedy, two small nieces, were in
charge of the costly train, and sister Nell
and Nora O’Donohue, the ’maids, appeared
in sunset effects of rose and gold, their heads
being swathed in turbans.
The sun did not shine on Elva Naugliton
when she put on her bridal finery to marry
Gordon Blair Culross. Instead there was
heavy rain, but as both come from pastoral
landowning families they probably thought it
a happy augury. The bride, who is the
youngest daughter of the Edmund Naughton
couple of Windouran, Moulmein, N.S.W.,
wore a simple short frock of ivory georgette
with a little sparkle of crystal fringe. She
dispensed with a veil, wearing instead a
sulphur-hued straw hat of mushroom shape,
enlivened with flat guiles of flame color. Her
sister Kathleen, who lent a hand, carried
out the yellow motif in a chiffon frock
topped with a white felt hat. The bride-
groom is the only son of the late William
Culross, of Marlec, Mt. Lofty, S.A. There
were rejoicings afterwards at Menzies’.
Kathleen Eagleson, of Hawthorn, who
wedded Dr. William Dixon Saltau on Thurs-
day, followed what is now a growing vogue
and chose lace for her wedding gown. Gold
thread embellished the mesh, which veiled
ivory chiffon. A veil of tulle and a bouquet
of water-lilies were part of the picture. Two
'maids in peach-pink frocks with harmonising
felt millinery supplied the necesary dash of
color.
There was a union of academic degrees
when Eileen, daughter of the W. E. Pearcey
couple, of Port Melbourne, and Allan Ram-
say Moon exchanged marital vows the other
day. The bridegroom is a bachelor of arts
and of civil engineering, and the bride is also
a Uni. graduate. Her taste runs to painting,
and she has been a National Gallery student
for some years.
Barbara, only chick of Mrs. W. B.
Turner, South Yarra, was arrayed in Honi-
ton lace for her union at St. John’s, Toorak,
with Lieut.-Commander J. Durnford, R.N.,
only son of the late Admiral Sir John Durn-
ford, of Hants, England. Three ’maids in
white satin with picture hats of straw and
georgette attended her, and an army of
guests was entertained later by the bride’s
mother at Chastleton. •
The 640 Scotchmen who are to leave here
next month to boost Australia in the Old
Dart have decided to extend their activi-
ties beyond the original programme. A
hundred of them will come home by way of
Canada; and an invasion of North and
South Ireland is also meditated.
Viola Hordern, now on the high seas, has
in her train Rachael Maxwell, whose father
married Charlotte Osborne. He served with
distinction in the Great War, climbing to the
rank of major, and died on service. This will
be his daughter’s first sight of her mother’s
land, and she is making it a health trip.
Being closely related to the Osborne clan,
and a niece of the lately arrived Mrs. Ham-
ilton, Miss Maxwell won’t be allowed to feel
lonely in Australia.
A merry party will board a liner at the
end of this month to explore the Old World.
Miss V. C. Selman originated the idea, and
she has roped in her cousin, Miss K. L. Mac-
artney, of Malvern, and the Catamore family,
of Croydon, for the adventure. They intend
landing at Marseilles, and will occupy a year
in European sight-seeing.
Jack Fiskin’s smart wife, whose beauty
for years rivalled that of her two girls, is
going abroad with her eldest daughter, Mrs.
Tom Grantham.
Aboard the Cathay, bound on a business
and pleasure trip, are Violet and Olive Brod-
ribb, v.fao are dropping off here for a chat
with old friends. It won’t be a long if sit,
as the sisters have planned to see the Orient
and Canada before returning to their Lon-
don home.
The Fred Knight couple, of Toorak, who
visited their daughter, Mrs. Lawrence Samp-
son, at Colombo last year, have been promised
a return visit. Mr. Sampson will accompany
his wife.
Here is a recent picture of Minnie Everett,
for 30 years the Firm’s ballet mistress. She
was only 13 when she started her stage
career as a
dancer, an d
her connection
with the Wil-
liamson enter-
prises goes
back to the
days of small
things. Now-
adays she lends
a hand in the
production of
many musical
shows. Just
back from a
visit to New
York, London
and Paris, she
has buckled
down to work
again full of
new ideas, and
is busy with
preparations
for the next
Gilbert and Sulilvan season.
The O. Morrice Williams couple, who are
to start out for a tour of Europe this
month, spread meat and drink before the
Champains last week at the Windsor.
Those bidden to meet the visitors were
chiefly Red Cross officials, so the lunching
served as yet another welcome to the
British R.C.S. general secretary and his
wife. Mayor Morell wished the Williamses
a pleasant trip and safe return.
Arthur Robinson and ihis lady and daugh-
ter Nan were passengers for Blighty last
week. The Percy Russells and the Philip
Glass couple are due to follow suit this
month.
Violinist Margot Macgibbon, of the Albert-
street Con., who went to the R.C.M., London,
last year, passed second on the list of 90
candidates for membership of Sir Henry
Wood’s orchestra.
Helen Simpson’s new book of stories is
being illustrated by Mollie McArthur, now
domiciled in London, but well known in
both in Sydney and this city. She lived
in Sydney for years. Her father, now
dead, went to England and became a mem-
ber of the House of Commons.
Dorothy Rosner, who for six years has
been principal of the Kindergarten Training
College in Brisbane, has taken up similar
duties at the Training College here during
the year’s absence of Mrs. Gutteridge. Miss
Rosner lately returned from a 13 months
tour of Europe and America.
Lilian Pentland, who has been busy during
the last 12 months transferring bits of
Europe to canvas, returned last week with
her harvest. Later in the year, in conjunc-
tion with Nancy Lyle, a show will be held
in the New Gallery.
Charles B. Morris, here depicted by Rus-
kin, was recently selected by the London
College of Music for the important job of
examiner. Music runs in his stock. Ada
Crossley is a
first cousin, and
his brother
Fred’s books of
hym n s are
used all over
Christendom.
For 15 years
Charles Morris
trained youth
at the Presby-
terian Ladies’
College, Bal-
larat, and was
organist and
Choirmaster
at S c o t s’
Church. Phyl-
lis Mitchell,
wno gained
Mrs. Jimmy
Dyer’s exhibi-
tion in final-
grade music
with honors,
was a former pupil.
A western district pioneer, Mrs. Catherine
Fleming, has died at 93, the result of an
accident, at her home near Panmure, in
which district she had lived for over 60 years.
She came to Australia in the Marchioness of
Douglas as a child of six and recalled that
the voyagers were so alarmed at a storm in
the English Channel that they begged the
captain to put back to port. His response
was indignant and decorative. Up to the
time of her death Mrs. Fleming was a cheery
soul with all her faculties alert.
Miss Jane Hale, of Portland, the last of
her line, died the other day in the house in
which she was born 70 years ago. Her
parents were pioneers in the time of the
Hentys.
Our meat king, W. C. Angliss, who has to
seek re-election to the House of Landlords in
June, keeps in touch with his extensive elec-
torate with the aid of his car, which he drives
himself when not immersed in finance. He
had a birthday on the day that he visited
Kyneton to attend a Hospital Sunday demon-
stration, and with characteristic generosity
handed over a cheque for £3O. Frank Mc-
Kenna, who keeps the key of the hospital
chest, said that Angliss had become entitled
so often to a governorship of the insti-
tution that the suggestion had been put up
that he should be labelled as governor-general.
Admiral Napier is the prime mover of the
Royal St. Kilda Yacht Club’s proposal to
establish a Sea Scout troop, made up of
boys not younger than 15. The Scouts will
be taken to sea in members’ yachts, and will
be privileged to wear a red-and-white scarf
—the club’s colors —and a badge on the left
arm. Everything is settled except the selec-
tion of the boys—and that’s going to be a
very delicate business.
Undismayed by the theory of over-work
and under-pay that is usually advanced —and
not without’ reason —to account for the:
shortage of nurses, the Leslie Spragues’
daughter Dorleen is leaving Charlmont and
social life to .enter the Alfred as a pro-
bationer. There she will find a few members
of our younger set who have preceded her on
the job, and have found it preferable to
butterflying.
By a stroke of bad luck the finest bit of
work in the semco-needlework competition,
a supper-cloth in Richelieu embroidery de-
picting Grecian figures, arrived nearly a
week after the judging, and so missed the big
prize of £25, which went to Miss B. Lang-
dale, of Hobart. The belated exhibitor was
Miss A. E. McPherson, of Hawkes Bay,
Maoriland, whose skill and industry were
recognised by a special prize.
An Anti-Noise Society has been started
here, and those of the shingled sex who are
afflicted with nerves will sympathise with its
aims. The promoters reckon that a great
deal of street noise is needless. Automobile
horns and tram bells are much louder than
is necessary, and too many motorists make
a habit of cutting out their exhaust silencers.
Tne society proposes to employ a patrol of
vigilantes to hale noisy people before the
cadi.
In the Alexander, Spencer-street, which
had a ceremonial opening last week, we claim
to have the most up-to-date hotel in the Com-
monwealth. It cost James Richardson
£300,000 and took two years to build. Fur-
nishings ate up £90,000, of which £lO,OOO
■went for carpets. The lounge on the first
floor covers half an acre; the dining-room
is three times as big as any other in the
city, and the bedrooms, with baths, are ex-
quisitely furnished and decorated. Ninety
per cent, of the materials used are Aus-
tralian, and very effective use has been made
of our beautiful marbles and timbers.
Congratulations are rolling in on Eileen
Sparks upon being chosen to go to England
as a member of the Moscovitch co. But Miss
Sparks is considering a retirement into
private life.
A committee of tennis enthusiasts headed
by Mrs. Norman Brookes, with Vera de
Bavay and Gwen Bedggood as joint lion,
sees., is busy with arrangements for the
entertainments during the tennis tournament
in which the French visiting champions will
be the attraction. The chief feature will be
a big dance at Ivooyong Club House on
February 11, when the G.-G. and Lady
.Stonehaven will be among the jazzers.
The Alliance Frangaise will put on a hop
at Admiralty House on the 13th to do honor
to the visiting French tennis players. The
tournament at Kooyong Courts promises to
shake things up a little, socially, it really
is time that something happened.
Housewives are considering with mixed
feelings Health Minister Beckett's proposed
law that bread must henceforth be delivered
free from contamination of the human
touch. A man in spotless overalls brandish-
ing a fork over a covered basket will doubt-
less be a pleasing and sanitary spectacle—
but how much will the baker-man’s laundry
bill add to the price of the loaf? When
associations of women agitated for the
paper-wrapping of the daily loaf they were
told it would add considerably to the price
of bread.
James Wheeler / and his co-worker for
charity James O’Neill are arranging a series
of dances to help the funds of St. Vincent's
Hospital. Last year considerable success
rewarded their efforts, and they are out to
eclipse all previous records.
Actor Leon Gordon will be one of ttie
principals in a ceremony connected with
wedding bells before this present Australian
season ends. The lady is an Adelaide girl,
Nancy Atkins, whom he met whilst playing
in the City of Churches during his previous
tour; she is only 20 years of age.
Among Australia’s threatened visitors in
May is Maud Royden, whose address is
largely and vaguely the United States. Miss
Royden seems to be a sort of high-voltage
evangelist, and making straight her path
comes her advance agent, Miss Chave Colli-
son. Certain women’s church societies in
the U.S. are looking askance at Miss Royden
because she doesn’t object to women smoking.
But there’s a time and place for everything.
Where are they to be smoking? The vexed
point for no reason at all recalls'the Rev.
Beecher Stowe’s epitaph for Robert Inger-
soll. When asked what lie thought a suit-
able inscription for the great agnostic
essayist’s tombstone, Stowe twinkled and
said: “I know the name of a poet that just
expresses it —Robert Burns !”
As Miss Royden doesn’t object to the fag,
she isn’t likely to have hot words for the
lipstick and powder rag. For such things
more than one Sydney clergyman needs to
have a blind eye. Still, one did raise his
brows for the fraction of a second when the
other Sabbath morning he saw a front-pew
matron dip into a vanity-bag the instant
the service was over and give herself a
smudge before sweeping down the aisle.
In the old days the windjammers used to
race to catch the China tea-markets. To-
day aeroplanes tear the blue cloths of Heaven
to ribbons in order to be the first in the
field with dress-fashion designs. Last
week a Paris fashion-house was wait-
ing the delivery of New York designs to
catch the eye of the residents of Paris who,
as all the world knows, are now entirely
American. Learning that the pretties
were aboard a liner which docked at
Southampton, an aeroplane was rushed
from the Croydon aerodrome to the liner,
collected the new modes, and bore them
swift as the wind to Paris, where manne-
quins were standing waiting to climb into
them. Puck’s wings can’t beat the dollar
stamp, after all!
Something that looks like real success lias
come the way of an indomitable Australian
brother and sister. They are Archie
Emmett Adams and his sister, now married
to Dr. Mahon, of London. About seven
years ago the two went to the Big Smoke
with a trunk full of compositions. Already
they had to their credit the popular “God
Send You Back to Me,” “The Bells of St.
Mary’s” and “Lonesome.” Now “Lumber
Love,” a musical comedy by the clever pair,
has made a striking hit in Birmingham.
It is predicted that it will be as reliable a
money-spinner as “Rose Marie.”


A. SAUNDERS’
SPECIALLY SELECTED DIAMONDS
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£5.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Cluster, Set
Platinum, Met.
Gold Ring
£6/10/-
A. Saunders’ Three
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set. 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£l5.
Wm
\v ■;
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds, Fancy Plati-
num-set, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£2O.
MOUNTED IN PURE
PLATINUM AND
18ct. GOLD.
A. Saunders’ Three
Diamonds, Hexagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£lO.
A. Saunders’ All-
Diamonds and Plati-
num Wedding Ring,
£25, £3O, £35,
£4O.
S 3?
v
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, set 18et.
White Gold Ring,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Crossover,
Set Platinum, 18et.
Gold Ring,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Four
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18et. Gold
Ring,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Five
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds and Sap-
phire, Set Platinum.
18ct. Gold Ring,
£25.
A. Saunders’ Three
Diamonds, Set
Platinum, 18ct.
Gold Ring,
£35.
ALL ORDERS OY MAIL Receive
Our Special and Prompt Attention.
RING BOCK with SIZE CARD
forwarded free on request.
fSH
fSulsM'
A. Saunders’ Dia
mond Button
Cluster, Set Plati-
num, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£25.
A. Saunders’ Two
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£2O.
mm
A. Saunders’ Two-
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
)set, Gold
Ring,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Single
Diamond, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£65.
> (RCM.
"'a
ip
"V'..
A. Saunders’ Dia-
monds and Emer-
alds, Set Plati-
num, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£25.
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 05FORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Amusements.
£ >1 I* I R E T H E A T R E,
Railway Square, adjoining Saunders’ Corner,
in Quay Street. Sydney.
RUFE NAYLOR has the honor to present
1/6 2/6 THE FILM GIRL. 3/6 5/6
NIGHTLY AT 7.55.
Reserves at Theatre (MA1000), Nicholsons, Palings,
Samuels, and leading Hotels;
Matinefis Thursdays and Saturdays at 2.15.
Theatre Box Office Hours: 9 to 3, 4 to 9.
g VIMS'EY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S : THE GIRL FRIEND.
CRITERION:
ALL THE KING’S HORSES.
ROYAL:
THE TRIAL OF MARY DUGAN.
PALACE:
THE ETERNAL MAGDALENE.
OICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELERRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The Woi Id’s Best.
,1 C. WILLIAMSO N, LTD.,
U ' MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE STUDENT PRINCE.
KING’S THEATRE:
A CUCKOO IN THE NEST.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE TERROR.
ATHENJE U M T H E
** MELBOURNE.
A T R E,
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
TWICE DAILY.
E. J. CARROLL PRESENTS
CHANG,
A PARAMOUNT PICTURE.
Plans at Allan’s.
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-
WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SHAKSPEARE.
In preparation for 1928, “Coriolanus,” “All’s Well
That Ends Well,” “Henry IV.” (part 1), “Richard II ”
In Season BENDIGO, Princess Theatre, Feb 9 to 11
Sydney Representative: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229
Sydney.
HOYT’S DE LU X E THEATRE
MELBOURNE.
JOHN GILBERT in
BARDELYS THE MAGNIFICENT
ALSO
RAYMOND NOVARRO in
THE ROAD TO ROMANCE.
Amusements.
SV| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EUGENE O’BRIEN and ALBERTA VAUGHAN in
THE ROMANTIC AGE.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone: 7076 & 7790.
AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB.
Warwick Farm Raices.
Saturday, 25th February, 1928.
THE TRIAL HURDLE RACE:
£2OO added. For horses which at time of
starting have not won a hurdle race or
steeplechase of the value of £2OO to the
winner.
About 2 Miles 1 Furlong and 140 Yards.
THE GLENFIELD HANDICAP:
£250 added. Lowest handicap weight Sst.
Six Furlongs.
THE INTERMEDIATE HANDICAP:
£2OO added. For three-year-olds and up-
wards which have not won a race on the flat
(maiden races and races limited to horses
which have not won a race of the value of
£75 to the winner, excepted) exceeding £lOO
in value to the winner at the time of running.
Lowest handicap weight 7st.
Seven Furlongs.
THE INGLEBURN NURSERY
HANDICAP:
£2OO added. For Two-year-olds.
Five Furlongs.
THE WARWICK FEBRUARY
HANDICAP:
£2OO added. Horses to be ridden by
apprentices who have not ridden 10 winners.
One Mile and Three Furlongs.
THE MINTO HANDICAP:
£250 added. Lowest handicap weight 7st.
71b.
One Mile.
Entries are to be made with the Secretary,
A.J.C., Sydney, V.R.C., Melbourne, or
N.J.C., Newcastle, before 4 o’clock p.m. on
Monday, the 13th February.
£1 forfeit must accompany each entry.
If entries are made by telegram the amount
of forfeit must also be telegraphed.
Weights declared 10 a.m. on February 20.
A.J.C. Rules of Racing, By-laws and Regu-
lations to be observed
C. W. CROPPER, Secretary,
6 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Missing' Friends.
f/’IRKWOOD. —Will James Andrew Kirk-
wood please communicate with Thomas
Dick, Dalmuir, Scotland, as he would like to
hear from him?
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Central of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The city is sweltering in its customary
February heat, so there is nothing much
doing socially, though wedding bells have
been ringing. On Wednesday, Roy Tritton,
the second son of the Fred Trittons, of Clay-
field, took Irene de Maine Linley, elder
daughter of the Kangaroo Point Linleys,
to wife in St. Mary’s, at the Point. The
bride was in ivory mariette and silver, with
a veil of Brussels net, lent by Mrs. Fred
Tritton, which was looped with posies of
orange bloom. The ’maids were Zoe Linley,
in shell-pink and silver, and Joyce Linley,
in pastel-pink. They had pink tulle veils
and bouquets of pink-shaded roses. There
was feasting at the Jenolan Caf6.
Another marriage of note was that of
Harold Nicholson, Eddington station, N.Q.,
to Lorna Voss, younger daughter of the late
James Voss and of Mrs. Voss, Auchenflower.
Father Bates tied the knot in All Saints’,
\\ lekham-terrace. The bride’s gown was of
pink crepe de Ohine, with ivory overdress.
Mrs. M. Brett lent the Brussels-net veil, and
a coronet of orange blossom was held by a
true-lovers’ knot in diamonds. Carnations
and eucharist lilies formed the bridal bouquet.
Mabel Voss attended in eau de nil, with
turban of green tulle and silver. She carried
lilies and pink roses. The after-rejoicings
were held at the Gerald Nuttings’ home at
Clayfield.
lor the final day of the Q.T.C. meeting
Sir John Goodwin was the guest of the
committee, Lady Goodwin arriving later in
the afternoon and taking a dish of tea on
the committee-room verandah in mastic crepe
de Chine and a rose hat. Mrs. N. A. PI.
Campbell came with her. Mrs. A. H. Whit-
tingham was there in ivory mariette with a
scalloped hem; Jean Graham was in pink.
Others in the throng were Mrs. F. K. Brod-
ribb, Mrs. J. J. Power and Betty Nelson,
the last-named in an ivory frock and black
hat.
This is Bonnie Bell, only daughter of Mrs.
Robert Bell, the well-known Brisbane singer.
Bonnie took
Tyltyl’s part in
the recent pro-
duction of
“T li e Blue
Bird,” which
Barbara Sis-
ley staged to
swell the coff-
ers of the
Creche and
Kindergarten.
Bonnie is only
11, and her
“shadow - be-
fore” (“Baby”
Cremer that
was) advised
her mother on
the frocking
of the clever
y.o ungste r.
Henry Borra-
dale is respon-
sible for her
elocution.
Christense Sorenson, who did her bit
during the war and received several medals,
succeeds Miss E. J. Bourne as general
matron of hospitals. Setting sail in 1914
in the first hospital-ship to leave Queensland,
this tall and popular Florence Nightingale
had as her most important appointment the
matronship of a hospital at Salonika, where
2000 beds were housed under canvas.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Nothing much is being done in the social
world; it even seems to be a close season
for matrimony, as there is not even a
wedding in prospect for the display of smart
frocks.
The Adelaide Racing Club held- a meeting
on Foundation Day which was remarkable
for great heat and small dividends- James
Hall is chairman, and his two pretty
daughters assisted him at entertaining-
Muriel Hall wore a powder-blue ensemble
and hat, and her brown-eyed sister Gwen
chose a beige outfit with a touch of pink.
The Allan McFarlanes were there, the lady
departing from her usual rule of all black
by wearing a wide-brimmed beige hat with
her black chiffon toilette. That determined
sport Mrs. W. T. Mortlock, who has never
been known to miss a meeting, was wearing
a black-and-white creation with a black hat.
She is generally sure of a dividend when
she backs her son’s horse, Cheosan. The
Moulden lady wore a rose-pink silk dress
and a green hat. The blaze of color every-
where was dazzling. The heat drove every-
one to shelter, and even the finish of a race
could not lure them from the shade of the
trees.
The Gipps couple, representing the Vic
Branch of the E.S.U., arrived from Mel-
bourne on Thursday to spend a week in this
city on their way to England.
There w ill be a flutter in the society
dovecotes of Adelaide when our new Governor
arrives with two swanky A.D.C.’s culled
from the Grenadier Guards and the Seventh
Hussars respectively. The Hussar is Lord
Stalbridge’s son, the Hon. Hugh Grosvenor,
a great sportsman, who has twice ridden in
the Grand National Steeplechase. This
place ought to suit him, with a race meeting
every week.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
We have been visited by potentates. Lord
Stonehaven and Sir Robert Horne have been
guests of the O’Grady at Government House,
and Lady Stonehaven joined her husband
later and spent a couple of days here.
The harbor put on its brightest blue frock
and its most smiling face on Regatta Day, and
white-winged yachts and gaily-colored speed-
boats made up a pretty picture. Many of onr
crack sailing boats were in Sydney for the
Forster Cup, but the racing was as good as
ever. The Sydney was the flagship, and
there were several parties on board her
during the day. The G.-G., Governor
O’Grady and daughter Margaret, and General
Monash were onlookers, and at the official
luncheon Lord Stonehaven said stirring
things about our being descendants of Drake,
and keeping up the grand old sea traditions.
The slope of the regatta ground round the
stand was packed with sightseers, and the
side-shows, which attract at least as much
attention as the aquatic part of the pro-
gramme, did a roaring trade.
This serious-looking young woman is Barbara
Storey, English by birth, but Tasmanian by
adoption. She
was one of
the most popu-
lar speakers
at the Summer
School of the
Women’s Non-
party League,
held at New
Norfolk
recently, when
she dealt with
the principles
of good citizen-
ship and the
m e t h o d s of
education
likely to make
good citizens.
Miss Storey
specialises in
verse-speaking,
of which art
she is a very
gifted expon-
ent. She is a keen hockey-player.
The O’Gradys went north for the Laun-
ceston .Cup, which was run in perfect
weather, the lawn and stand at Mowbray
looking like flower gardens with their profu-
sion of bright-hued summer frocks. Margaret
O’Grady wore beige georgette and lace, with
a large brown hat. A number of southern
folk attended, and the northern country was,
of course, largely represented. In the v.-r.
Pen were Commander and Mrs. Eardley Wil-
mot, Mrs. O. Gordon Douglas, Mrs.
C. A. H. Soul and Mrs. Tulloch Scott.
Promenaders on the lawn included Mrs.
T. W. H. Clarke and her two handsome
daughters, Mrs. and Miss Foster (Rosedale),
Mr. and Mrs. Tom Lyons and daughter, the
David Taylors, Mayor and Mayoress Barber,
the E. C. Fields, the Claude Jameses, Phyllis
von Alwyn, the Ilolphs, the Rob Vineys and
Mrs. T. Field.
During Cup week in Launceston the
O’Gradys attended the Victoria League ball
in the Albert Hall, where the stage was
massed with mauve, pink and blue hydran-
geas. The v.-r. table was decorated with
Pink scabious and gypsophilus, and the other
tables in two shades of pink sweet-peas and
scabious. Margaret O’Grady wore white
crepe romaine, and Mrs. Eardley Wilmot
sported sage-green georgette. The Clarke
girls (Quorn) were in salmon pink and
silver and buttercup-yellow georgette respect-
ively. The Ewen Camerons were in the
crowd, and many Hobart people attended
both the league ball and the spinsters’
ball, which was held on the preceding even-
ing.
The Gilbert and Sullivan Opera Co. has
played to full houses all the week, and the
fare provided delighted not only the old-
timers but the younger contingent, who
were quick to appreciate the superiority of
Sullivan’s music and Gilbert’s wit to the sort
of fare provided in the typical modern
musical comedy. Tassy pride is thrilled by
the fact that James Hay, the tenor, was a
pupil of Amy Sherwin.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The Polo Club opened its season with a
gymkhana on its grounds at South Perth.
A hot day and clouds of dust made ponies
frothy and players and spectators thirsty.
Some Brennans, Mrs. Ambrose and several
daughters, Judy James, Violet and Mavis
Holmes and Eileen Hayes were among those
who watched from motor-cars. Chairman of
the club Major Sam Grimwood made a
speech and Mrs. Norman D’Arcy bestowed
the spoil.
For the South-West tennis tournament, held
at Buribury, there were over 600 entries.
Miss P. Richardson won the women’s singles
and Mrs. Fyfe and Miss Morse added to
their collection of laurels. Time spent off
the courts was fillled up with dances, fancy-
dress parties, crab suppers and swimming
picnics. There wasn’t much sleep during the
week-end, but everyone had lots of fun.
War has been waged around our city’s
highest hill, where a telescope brings the
stars a few million miles nearer and a
cannon barks the hour of 1 p.m. Clamor-
ous protests were raised when it was thought
the State would close the observatory. Now
the Commonwealth has consented to run it.
Chave Collison has spent a week here as
advance agent for Maude Royden. A
graduate of Sydney and Columbia (N.Y.)
Unis., Miss Collison has spent live years
studying social and economic problems, and
in London fills the job of hon. organising
sec. of the British Commonwealth League.
Miss Royden’s Australasian tour will com-
mence in M.L. in May.
Anita Fitz Gerald, now Mrs. Le Tessier,
has just had news of the success of her
thesis, which completes her qualification for
a teacher’s diploma in elocution. This is
the first L.R.A.M. in elocution to come to
W.A. Miss Fitz Gerald also bagged the first
A.11.C.M. and the first fellowship in elocu-
tion from Trinity College.
Fred Andrews, secretary of the Employers’
Federation, has left by the Cathay with his
wife for a holiday in Maoriland.


UNDERWEAR
i M
%
mm
tF:-7>
WSSQ
mm
vAv:‘ •.''•-•vv.-.-.'
"•*>>
V
w
••.;x
w
: C”* :
■V,SI»
,yK”»
1
«ww
y~. •->
(JjJEvvl^rS
V: &'
m
£
\--£?>yy\jZ ‘
Wj4
'■«&■"<
& ?
I »
v>
$
2®
*2
- f U» Vs* •t* Oi
S*r;
1H
&So:'.' c ',
<*■'<■<
• <.7A -?..
•»
§i
u
r-r^gSfi
.•?r-V
ii;
1$
sss
11
M
I
ftM.
>j •/.*
"'syw/jidsL,
i»0
asi
mm
m
• ■vlV!
■ - V .' 'jTjfiPA
‘w&m
Wr/A
&
i
fmmm
S3Al|lp
yit?l
wmmwMm
kMwmmm
* .%>; ' c v
sPli
idlm
W£m«
'}&%&
Mi
‘Mrfi
W:
'lf/
i
f
%
?/,■
as
T:.:.v
%
aV«
f l|l|3iPfl
~-.<4rf'
ifeffcKC,
45
|gfjP
MSS
3
.fV.i
;7- :
a
ifp
,-;? lij'i
«yt'T
/£
v
mi
Sm!
•r^A
*> 4
mm
mm
(/
wg
V
&
m
Ss<®«
/,V :: '•
/!£V ‘ T/ V
•r
/
if
V^/pj^.y/./^vv
%?•!■?* )fI y ';’w'r->
&
7
o,~s>
I
/
.^5&Av
B^l
i
c<- vi' ~J>-.
c-
X
rr «s
QUALITY, and quality alone, was the basis upon
which “Gibsonia” Pure Wool Underwear was first
manufactured—a standard which has been rigidly
adhered to ever since; nothing will ever cause this “rule of
quality” to be departed from.
At the very inception, and ever since, the wool selected
for making into “Gibsonia 5 ’ Underwear was the finest
quality grown in Australia the wool which Wool Experts
of the world come thousands of miles
to outbid each other for nothing but
the absolute best is good enough for
“Gibsonia” Underwear.
There is Safety in Wearing Pure Wot>l
“Gibsonia” Underwear
Pure wool is without equal as a protection
for the human body—it is Nature’s provision
for mankind. Even bodily warmth is regulated
in all temperatures, chill and overheating are
prevented, air is given free access to and from
the body.
“Gibsonia” Underwear is purest wool in its
most attractive form it is the choice of all
whose paramount concern is Health. The fit-
ting of every “Gibsonia” Undergarment is the
essence of comfort, the wearing ability cannot
be surpassed, the value is unequalled.
Wear “Gibsonia” Underwear
and benefit by the advantages
of pure wool underwear
there are garments for all
ages, weights for all climates.
Price Lists on Application to
FOY & GIBSON Pty. Ltd.
Smith Street, Collingwood
MELBOURNE.
Also at
Rundle St. .. . Adelaide
The Valley . . . Brisbane
Hay Street Perth


m
3s \
' •/
Mi
■ 11
mm
SMALL IN SIZE -- - BIG IN PIANO VALUE
THE STUDIO MODEL OF
2f>6e «
oca wt m ort
PLAYER
PIANO
Here is just the instrument for the thousands who have longed for a piano but whose homes are
restricted in space. The Wurlitzer Studio model is only 4 feet 8 inches long small enough to fit
in practically any room. Yet it is graceful in line and exquisitely finished. And, what is more
important to those who love music, it possesses all the rich resonance and tonal beauty that for
200 years have made Wurlitzer an outstanding name in musical-instrument manufacture.
Principal “Wurlitzer” Agents:—
NEW SOUTH WALES: Factory Representatives—Parker, Blau and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
NEWCASTLE: M. Light & Son, Ltd., Newcastle and Cessnock. ,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: The Australian Implement and House Furnishing Co., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Musgroves Ltd., Murray Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: J. H. Wilson & Co. Pty., Ltd., 203 Charles Street, Launceston
VICTORIA: Myer’s Emporium Ltd., Melbourne.
Where any difficulty is experienced in procuring a “Wurlitzer,” communicate
; Findlay’s Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
direct with the factory representatives:
Parker, Blau & Co., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
308 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Girl Friend”
Criterion “All the King’s Horses”
Roy vl “The Trial of Mary Dugan”
Palace “The Eternal Magdalene”
Emi’ixie “The Film Girl”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “The Student Prince”
King's “A Cuckoo in the Nest”
Royal “The Terror”
Athemum Moving Pictures
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
“The Eternal Magdalene,” the second pro-
duction of the Muriel Starr season at the
Sydney Palace, is a well-enough constructed
melodrama with a touch of the old morality
play about it. It seems to have been writ-
ten on the perfectly just assumption that
women are the most dependable patrons of
the theatre. Says one of the male characters:
“A girl who has made one mistake is still
good enough for any man; if she has not
she is too good for him.” The person who
has to learn this noble lesson is Elijah Brad-
shaw, a self-made -and self-righteous person
who leads a campaign for the suppression of
the “vice district ’ of Edenburg. As a col-
laborator he introduces a dollar-gathering,
blatant evangelist, the Rev. James Gleason,
who mentions modestly that he is only the
advance agent for God. For all liis righteous-
ness, Elijah stubbornly hardens his heart
against revelations that it is sweating
wages for women at such stores as his
own which drive them to sin; there-
fore terrible things happen to Elijah, whilst
a mystery housemaid known as “The Woman”
acts as a sort of Greek chorus to stress the
piling up of liis misery. His son is proved
a thief and blackguard; his daughter goes
astray with a wicked sharebroker and he
loses his wife. After this series of afflic-
tions things brighten up for Elijah, and he
is left fully convinced that only he who is
without sin should be permitted to throw
stones, and resolved that henceforth theatre-
going shall be part of the activities of the
Bradshaw family.
* * *
Not even the best of acting could make
Robert McLaughlin’s piece convincing; but
Harvey Adams plays the old Pharisee in
a masterly fashion; the proud man who goes
through the process of being broken and
humbled is more the principal part than the
mysterious Woman, whom Muriel Starr plays
artistically. Rutland Beckett, as the bluster-
ing Billy Sundayish missionary, is provided
with a foil in the smug and oily Rev. Birming-
ham Smollett of Charles Lawrence, and
Mayne Lynton’s Arnold Macy is recognised
tor a designing villain even before it is men-
tioned that he sells bonds; Fred Coape gives
a good minor sketch of Judge Amos Bas-
combe; and Ellis Irving, as John Bellamy,
newspaper reporter and faithful lover, puts
a throb of musical sincerity into his throat.
Beatrice Day as the pious man’s wife,
Nancye Stewart as the lady who moves from
a mansion in the suppressed vice district to
the conduct of a “road house,” Mary Macrae
as the daughter who wrings Elijah’s heart,
and Bertha Ballenger as a maid support
Muriel Starr on the feminine side.
* * * *
A silk chemise with an embroidered in-
scription bought in Paris in a mad moment
by an otherwise immaculate young man,
and presented—by post—to a lady supplies
the basis for “Up in Mabel’s Room,” which
the Neil company presented at Sydney Grand
Opera House on Saturday last. The pursuit is
carried as far as the sleeping-quarters of
Mabel, the lady who wears the silk under-
garment and believes that the wife of the
painfully proper Gary Ainsworth would appre-
ciate him better if she thought that his life
had held at least ope hectic episode ; but, in
spite of the bed, some play with feminine
undergarments and a bit of stage undress-
ing, the comedy is harmless enough. At the
most a couple of lines go over the edge. The
Intmor, as in all such productions, builds
itself upon a medley of cross purposes and
suspicions amongst a group of married or
about-to-be-married persons, and by the
time the _ tangle is unravelled the audience
has had its full money’s-worth of laughter.
The acting is adequate for the theme; it
shows Frank Neil as the irreproachable
young man, Mary Gannon as the owner of
the bedroom and the disputed scrap of lin-
gerie, Lily Molloy bright in a straight part
as a spinster who doesn’t believe in matri-
mony, Connie Martyn as a lady who rouses
the worst suspicions of her husband (Leslie
Woods), and Rosa Duggan as the young
bride of the immaculate man. Paul Longuet
can supply no more emotion for such words
as “It is terrible, terrible!” than it would
take him to announce that dinner is ready ;
but he makes a presentable lover for the
merry Mabel.
“The Girl Friend” has struck popu-
larity at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) ; the
full houses indicate that a long season is
assured. On Saturday “All the King's
Horses” will push aside “The Letter” at the
Criterion Theatre; and, at the St. James,
“Archie” will retire in favor of “Mercenary
Mary.” “The Film Girl” dances along her
way at the Empire. At the Royal, Leon
Gordon browbeats his witnesses in “The
Trial of Mary Dugan” nightly, and at two
matinees a week —the midweek matinee at
this theatre, as at the Empire, being on
Thursday. Arthur Greenaway is getting
so much support from the schools for his four
nights (and matinee) season of “Twelfth
Night” at the Conservatorium, opening on
February 29, that the public are warned to
apply for seats early.
Color still provides half of Sydney Tivoli’s
programme. The Emperors of Song con-
tinue to pour forth tlieir melody and the
adroit McGiveny repeats his Protean act; his
quick changes are clever enough to keep the
same Dickens sketch fresh and entertaining.
“The Cycling Duffys” have returned after
making good in vaudeville abroad, and their
act would brighten any bill.
Betty Lambert is a more than usually
bright spot in the new programme at Sydney
Fullers’; it is called “It’s All Yours.” Reg
Hawthorne, who gives her some motherly
advice, likewise scores well. A thrillful tumb-
ling act is presented by Jack Storey and
Hazel.
The Coo-ee Carnival, held to provide
funds for the Young Australia League, was
opened with great Sclat at the Sydney
Sports Ground on Saturday. To ease
the strain the police ordered that the gates
should be opened half an hour before the
scheduled time; and the crowd had grown
to 60,000 before it was found necessary to
close them upon thousands still clamoring
for admission. The goat racing was the
chief attraction. The show goes on all this
week and probably longer.
* ❖ *
Juchau Productions, another Australian
picture venture, makes its initial splash witn
“The Menace,” which has had a private
screening at Sydney Prince Edward. Except
the scenery, there is nothing particularly
Australian about the film; but it is one
which should be able to find its market
abroad as well as at home. “The Menace”
is the di’ug traffic, which is fought by one
Grainger, whose wife has become victim
thereto ; his conflict with a gang of traffickers,
including some Chinese, provides plenty of
incident.
“Wolf’s Clothing” at the Sydney Lyceum
is an enjoyable extravaganza of wild adven-
tures. Hoyt’s carries its patrons on “The
Road to Romance” and shows some only par-
tially-attired females in “Ladies Must Dress,”
which features Virginia Valli. “Stark Love,”
at the Piccadilly, contains some vivid realism
in the lives of Kentucky mountaineers ; and
“The Nervous Wreck,” which the Frank Neil
co. presented in its stage form at the Sydney
“THE TRIAL OF MARY DUGAN,” AT
SYDNEY ROYAL.
Jimmy (Brandon Peters ) demonstrates to
Judge Nash ( B. N. Lowin), by means
of a tailor’s dummy, how the foul blow
was struck.
G.0.H., is made a wild farce in the picture
presented at the Haymarket by the camera’s
reproduction of the vagaries of the car which
carries its owner into the Wild West in
search of health.
* * * *
A little Savage art: —
Cedric Savage is a Maoriland artist, acclimatised in
Australia, who has made his first independent splash
with a show at the Fine Art Galleries, King-street,
Sydney. His other work fails to live up to “Red
Tips,” a decorative canvas in which the effects of
light and color are excellently worked; too often
hi;i desire for impressionism gives his canvases a
poster effect, although there are attractiveness and
promise in most of them, particularly “The River
Bend.”
“Spooks,” Stuart O’Brian’s new exhibit at
Melbourne Palace is a classic in its way—
a sort of lunatic Old Master. Claiming to
be the spoof drama which started the boom
in spoof dramas, it carries this stain upon its
reputation far too lightly. For a mystery play
it is only moderately bloody. Eardley Turner
and Jack Settle were the only casualties on
Saturday. Perhaps a couple of extra corpses
may be thrown in during the week, if the box-
office demands it. Turner’s demise, as the
result of licking down a poisoned envelope,
occurred early, but not a bit too early for
the audience, which had had nearly enough
of the ancient servitor with a voice like the
ghost of Hamlet’s father. The licking by
Jack Settle of another envelope removed a
“THE TERROR” AT MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
The morbid-minded Mrs. Elvery (Mildred
Cottell ) and Soapy Marks (Nat Madi-
son).
mentally blind and deaf, though not dumb,
officer from the United States constabulary.
Still, lie acted vigorously and his disappear-
ance was regretted. The present writer
entertained high hopes that some other apa-
thetic members of the cast would “fall for’’
the lethal stationery; but he was doomed
to disappointment. Brian Ewart, Nina
Dacre, Fred Mac Kay and Violet Neitz, as
the four heirs to somebody or other’s fortune,
stuck it out to the end, and, in accordance
with the terms of the will, divided the mil-
lions. “Spooks,” as befits an Old Master,
is a simple and unsophisticated thriller, a
sort of primitive example. Books that fly to
pieces of their own accord are its infantile
devices. Marie D’Alton and D’Arcy Kella-
way, as negro servants, provided some artless
comedy. The show may become the talk of
the town ; but if it does, some of the remarks
made will probably be unfit for publication.
“THE TERROR.”
No shows to see to-night, you say? Now
what the blinkin’ blazes!
You’re talking through your hat, mo lad,
yer iggerance amazes !
There’s Mosco —something at the Royal—
now there’s a blooming welter,
Corpses in the wainscoting, coppers helter-
skelter ;
Clutcliin’ paws ’n’ secret doors, murders by
the squillion,
Monks in cowls, blood-curdlin’ ’owls, and
a stolen million!
Lunatic wot guards the ’oard—freeze yer
to the marrow—
Cuts the tripes out of the snipes wot butts
in with their barrow.
Steals away the herowliine —mugs ’er good
’n’ hearty ;
’Ero pops—’e’s of the slops—into the merry
party.
Villain outs ’is gleamin’ knife to take the
’ero’s measure,
Misses his sting and ’its the springlock on
the blinkin’ treasure!
The screamin’ tart—wot’s that? No Art!
Perhaps I’ll get you later.
’Oo spoke of Art? I thought you asked the
way to a the-ayter !
❖ * * *
A Cuckoo is still in the Nest at Mel-
bourne King’s, and Helene Simon continues
to be the most unimpassioned beauty that
ever inhabited a double-bed upon the stage.
Large audiences are still trying to dis-
entangle farce from fiction at the Princess,
where R. Crusoe, able seaman, rageth nightly
and at two matinees a week. His Majesty’s
is still busy with “The Student Prince,” but
an examination of the profits has probably
suggested that he should get his leaving cer-
tificate in a week or so. That “Chang,”
the story of a Siamese family’s struggle with
the jungle, is a picture in a thousand is
shown by the flocking to the Athenaeum of
crowds not ordinarily interested in the
movies.
* *- *
Up to time of writing Murray, the escapo-
logist, now at Melbourne Tivoli, had_ accepted
challenges to escape from a packing-cast;;
neck- and leg-irons, relics of the convict days;
three office safes, one inside the other ; and
a Chinese “torture-cage,” stated to have
been recently imported from Canton. A
blacksmith and a locksmith will assist in
the proceedings, and Murray confidently
expects to be home at the usual times for
meals.
* * *
The last writer in the world one would
expect to see filmed is Joseph Conrad, yet
in “The Road to Romance,” at Hoyt’s Mel-
bourne mansion, Hollywood has an accep-
table movie, even if it does not in the least
recall the rolling periods of the great master
of literary description. “White Flannels” is
the Majestic’s newest wear. Louise Dresser,
the heroine, denies herself the dresses and
jewels which should go with a star part in
order to give her son the higher education.
“The Nervous Wreck” is the comedy section
of the bill.
The German Ufa film “False Shame,” at
the Playhouse, is this week’s Melbourne
winner of the celluloid dramatic stakes. The
tragedy opens in the leafy haunts of love
and innocence; and in the waiting-rooms of
quacks, in doctors’ consulting-rooms and
hospital wards it is worked out to its disas-
trous conclusion. Nothing is left out.
Flappers who have battened on the sugar-
plums of Hollywood are here invited to gaze
upon clinical diagrams and human examples
which, seen through the realistic eye of the
camera, attain a potency that would make
even a medical student blench. And yet the
painful exhibition should leave the thought-
ful spectator curiously appeased. There is
a happy ending to the plot. Science, which
is shown to mean intellectual honesty as
opposed to the shams of conventional soeiety,
is the god in the machine. It rescues the
hero and the heroine and sets them on the
highroad to cominonsense and health. An
amazingly absorbing film.
* * *
lan Hay’s comedy “The Sport of Kings’”
opened last week at the Adelaide Theatre
Royal. It is a humorous racing skit, and
Frank Bradley was excellent as the old
hypocrite Amos Purdie, J.P., who conducts
his betting in the language of flowers, and
’phones his bookie to “put a carnation on
Jazz Baby.” Anjotther clever sftudy was
supplied by Henrietta Cavendish as Mrs.
Purdie. Nellie Bramley and her company
have been playing “The Fortune Teller” at
the Prince of Wales Theatre. In the name
part Nellie scores in her portrayal of mother
love; the other feature of the piece was
the make-up of Austen Milroy as the Mexi-
can Tony, which made every child in the
house howl with terror. West’s Pictures
is steeped in gore. “The Blood Ship”
serves to explain why there were no
seamen’s strikes in those days; “The
Stolen Bride” relieves the tension some-
what. At the Majestic Theatre, George
Storey and his little lot are still
going strong, with Vernon Sellars and
Arthur Aldridge supplying some commend-
able melody. At the Garden Theatre the
Marionettes (-Pat Hanna and Joe Valli) are
popular, and there is a capital war-time
sketch, “The Leave Boat.” At the Wonder-
graph Theatre Pauline Frederick is starring
as the morbid morphia fiend “Madame X.”
“Andante” : While Melbourne people have
been growling at the prospect of having to
support two opera companies simultaneously,
Brisbane theatregoers are wondering what
they are going to get out of it. Are they
going to receive the treatment that was
handed out to them in 1924, when, after
weeks of opera in Sydney, Granforte and co.
—the co. being three other soloists—-came
to Brisbane and hurled a few miscellaneous
slices of opera at them? Brisbane has not
seen a real opera in full regalia for seven
years. Surely it is time it had another trial!
“Hamfat”: Encouraged by the successful
amateur production of “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream” and “Julius Csesar,” Arthur
Greenaway hopes to keep going with Shak-
speare. The production of “Twelfth Night”
at the Conservatorium, with himself, of
course, as Malvolio, will run for four nights
starting on February 29, and there will be
one matinde. After that, with a small group
of players, Greenaway proposes to go on tour
with Shakspearean recitals. His idea is that
notable scenes from the works of William
properly costumed will go better than the
whole plays, which entail an embarrassingly
heavy cast. The N.S.W. Education Depart-
ment is backing the “Twelfth Night” pro-
duction. and Greenaway hopes to get a sipii-
lar backing in each State for the other ven-
ture.


A
\.
I
\ /JJ
< *1
Xs
23
s
- ir.
Every possible precaution is taken
to make your Willard Battery
acid-tight, even to testing each
finished battery with compressed
air.
Quality
IB
tm
STORAGE
BATTERY
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., LTD.,
68 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD., Perth.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., LTD.,
482 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MOTOR SUPPLIES, LTD., Brisbane.


A Better Dry Battery
the EVER-READY
The best for wireless
purposes or general
utility bells, tele-
phones, burglar alarm*,
medical coils, etc.
%
Agents everywhere
rite for Illustrated Catalogue
THE EVER-READY CO.
(Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
In these days everybody is an investor.
You have a life policy. Is it really worth anything? Is the office
you are in sound?
Are the shares you hold in a solvent company?
"The Bulletin” has established “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” to discuss
these matters. Subscribers are invited to ask questions.
Published the first Saturday in each month. Price 2/- per copy;
22/6 per annum. From most newsagents, or direct from “The
Bulletin” Offices. Sydney and Melbourne.
Light Foiling
Straw Hats for Men
Only an ounce or two in
vJeight-alwaps cool. The
‘ Airway’ has 56 air holes-
the ‘Tropical’ 24. Have
a fresh air treat. Order
now. cAll Sizes.
The ‘Airway’
5/6
The “Tropic”
' 7/6
Pike Brothers Ltd.
In Queen Street, Brisbane
SUN
By
MYRAMORRIS
ANNIE had lived most of her life under-
ground, like a mole. At half-past
eight every morning she caught a
cable-tram into the city. It went a circuitous
route, round smutty-walled factories and
clusters of squalid-looking houses and little
shops. It passed the tawny Yarra where the
masts of ships huddled together like tall
young forest trees, and lost itself in the
mazes of the city.
She worked in a sweet-shop, run by two
oily Greeks. You had to go down stone steps
under the paVement to get to it. It had a
strange, sweet, away-from-the-earth smell.
There was a soda-fountain at the back of
the marble counter. Everything was cold —
the slabs of marble, the nickel taps, the glass
jars full of rich, brown chocolates, the square
white tables at which people sucked their
drinks through straws.
Annie was pale-faced, with prominent blue
eyes, and she had long fine hairs growing
on her chin. Her hands were white, too —
unhealthily white, like the belly of a fish.
It was no wonder she was so white; she
had known practically no outdoor life. All
day she stayed in the little shop, serving
drinks and weighing out sticky chocolates.
At six she went home in a crowded tram,
had her meal with her mother and two
brothers and washed up in the stuffy kitchen,
with its foetid sink that was nearly always
out of order. After that, if it were warm,
she sat on the verandah, watered the tiny
lawn and wind-blown flower-beds, or went for
an aimless walk along the seafront. Some-
times the band would play in the rotunda,
and she and Pearl Drew, the girl next door,
would sit and listen to “Ain’t She Sweet ?’ :
and “Muddy Waters” with an intensity of
boredom. If it were cold she would go round
the corner to the pictures, or stay by the
fire working eyelets round the necks of night-
dresses and camisoles, which she still wore,
along with the high-boned corsets that gave
her an unfashionable bust.
During the week-ends things were much
tlie same. Of a Saturday afternoon she
would turn out her tidy bedroom with pains-
taking deliberation, do odd jobs about the
house or sew. Sometimes of a Sunday morn-
'ng she would go to church and kneel in the
>ew carefully, so that the toes of her best
shoes should not be turned up. In the
afternoon she and Pearl might go down to
the beach and sit in the shade of the sea-
wall, watching the couples pass. They
watched with cold, resentful eyes, muttering
stories about the looseness of men and the
foolishness of the young girls who would not
let them alone.
Her own days were uncolored by the
thought of any man. She wove no bright
romances about herself. Passion was as far
away from her as the moon. She might have
been completely sexless. Hers was a dull,
spiritless life, with one week the same as
another. Twenty-four, she had known
nothing different. If she had thought about
it she would have realised that most other
girls did not live exactly as she did; but she
was too apathetic, too stifled by the narrow-
ness of her life, to think about anything.
Sometimes as she crossed the street she
would see the sun lying warm and yellow
along the pavements, and gilding the tremu-
lous tops of trees. She would feel it on
her shoulders, like a hot hand laid there, and
get into the shade quickly. The sun made
her feel faint and headachy. She wondered
how people could sit out in the sun. It
wasn’t natural.
Once, in the middle of a fine spring morn-
ing, a customer clattered down the stone
steps and bought some chocolates. There
was a faint indefinable smell of straw about
him.
“It’s bright and sunny outside,” he said,
with the easy talkativeness of the country-
bred man. “It does you good to feel the
sun burning clean through you.”
“I don’t like it —the sun,” said Annie.
“I’ve not been used to it. It makes me feel
sick.”
“You’re not alive,” said the man jovially,
stuffing the bag into his pocket. “Sun ’ud
warm you up and make you come alive.
Miss.”
She knew that it wouldn’t do all that, but
you certainly did want warming up. You
shivered down in the cold shop, and your
feet had no feeling in them. Even when the
sun was warm in the street it was chilly
down there. And winter was w r ell over. The
wind had a fugitive warmth in its breath.
The fruit-blossoms, startlingly pale against
black stems, were all finished. The sea at
the back of the house was the filmy blue of
delphiniums. Summer was coming on ten-
tatively.
When Annie thought of the heat she
thought of her sister Kate—big and fat and
good-natured; married to a man for whom
she had cooked on a cattle-station south of
Lake Eyre. A desolate place it looked in a
picture—-flat as a meat-dish, her mother said ;
a boundless plain, feathered lightly with
meagre scrub and streaked with long, dry
creek-beds.
One day a letter came from Kate. Kate
had extra work to do, she said, and had been
very “poorly.” Sometimes she didn’t know
how she was going to get through, what with
one thing and another. She wondered if
Annie would come along for a little while
before the weather got too not.
Annie’s mother put it to her at dinner.
Annie was terrified because it was some-
thing outside the ordinary routine of her life.
She would be called on to show initiative
perhaps. Then she looked out of the little
window and saw the pale sun flooding the
street. She remembered the feel of it, ard
was touched by a vague, inexplicable excite-
ment.
“It’d do you good,” said her mother, wip-
ing a hot plate with her check apron. “You
look peaky. The sun’d liven you up.”
The same, in a way, as the customer Bad
said: “The sun will make you come alive.”
She thought of it in the night, and decided
for it with a queer, breathless feeling, as
though she had made a great, unalterable
resolution. She counted over her under
clothes carefully; as her mother had said,
you never knew when you might have ar-
accident.
She left a few days later by the Adelaide
express, then by train and coach up to
merri Merri, Tom’s place. The coach was
empty, but it was hot inside. The sun was
all about her. It beat down on the horses’
backs, and a steaming odor came from them.
It pressed down on the leather of the seats,
and created a smell, acrid and pungent. She
THE WHY AND THE EYE.
“What did people make stiles for, Dad?”
“Same reason as they do now—so that women can get over the fence.”
thought that she must smell that smell all
her life. The plains lay out around her,
lifeless and incredibly remote, with the sky
touching their edges. She looked curiously
at the scant vegetation—tufted low scrub
that grew close to the earth, wild geranium
and grey saltbush. A creeping plant with a
large yellow flower ran along the ground,
but she thought that the flower was not so
yellow as the sun. She could see that brim-
ming over, spreading in little pools on top of
the ridges—golden, like some of the dtinks
she had served at the shop.
At Merri Merri she got out. The house
was decrepit and wooden, with wide, shady
verandahs and a lot of white posts. Kate
was down at the gate. She looked older and
was withered. Her eyes were puckered up
in her face, and there was an air of lassitude
about her. Big Tom, talking to the driver
of the coach, was the color of dust.
Annie walked up the path, insisting on
carrying her suitcase; nervously eager to
please, vaguely frightened because she was
thrown out of her usual way and didn't quite
know what was the next move. The sun
beat down on her shoulders. She stood and
put her palms out, as though she could hold
it like water.
“What is it?” asked Kate carelessly.
“The sun,” said Annie, with an indrawn
breath. “It’s real, somehow —like a person.”
“Oh, it’s nothink,” said Kate. “We get
used to it.”
In the living-room another man sprawled
over a broken chair. He had lazy blue eyes
and black, curling lashes that gave him an
impudent look.
“Pat Gilligan,” said Kate in her offhand
way. “He’s got a place of his own over the
ridges, but he’s helping Tom with some
cattle. How did you leave mum? Is that
kitchen sink mended yet?”
Annie answered at random. She was
vaguely afraid of Gilligan, who later sat at
the table with them. She hated men. Tfiey'o
get nothing from her, anyhow—not them ! It
would have minimised her discomfort had she
known that he was thinking: “Lord ! What
a wash-out!”
During the days that followed she was
mostly in the house helping! From the door
she could watch out over the shimmering
plain; watch the thin mulga and acacia
dancing in lacy lines, and the barren, undu-
lating country stretching away to the horizon,
where it seemed miraculously to be drawn up
into the air. Sometimes she would go out
and stand in the heat, and it would give her
a queer, excited feeling, though Tom told her
not to go without a hat. She was beginning
to like Merri Merri, though it took some
getting used to. Kate and Tom laughed at
her and made her embarrassed.
“She’s a born old maid,” said Tom one
day, and he kissed her slyly.
Kate laughed, and she ran out surging
against this outraging of her shy woman-
hood. But, outside, Gilligan, who had watched
from the verandah, laughed lazily, and she
fled in a sudden agony of shame.
It grew hotter at Merri Merri. Kate was
prostrated, and most of the work fell to
Annie. But there was always time to stand
at the door and dream as she had never done
before, looking out, with her hands on her
hips, her pale eyes touched with clear,
whitish light. Now her mind was full of
colorful, chaotic imaginings. She thought of
tilings that frightened and appalled her;
things sensuous and beautiful, like roses in
summer gardens, music over water and men’s
voices singing deeply. She had never been
touched by these before. She was passion-
ately aware of something in her that was
struggling to come out —something that had
to do with the blazing sun and a hunger for
happiness and—Pat Gilligan. She would find
herself staring at him against her will, long-
ing, yet fearful, that he would turn round
and look at her. But Pat Gilligan slouched
over the saddle all day, and had little enough
to say to her—at least, until the wheezy
gramophone was left at the house by one of
the men. They danced on the verandah of
an evening then.
“What, never learned to dance!” he ex-
claimed. “Poor kid!”
Because he loved music almost without
reservation and the beauty of body rhythm,
he taught her out on the roughboarded veran-
dah, with infinite patience, laughing good-
naturedly when she stumbled and drew away
shrinkingly from his too-tight hold.
It was the beginning of a fragile enchant-
ment for Annie. She began to think of him
deliberately through the long, hot, lonely
days when Kate was lying down. She would
watch out for his blue shirt, blotted faintly
in the dust that rose from the dry earth.
That hunger for happiness took an insidious
hold of her. ... It was the sun, the sun,
the sun! It was making her come alive, as
tlie man in the shop had said it would. Out
under the empty sky she would still try to
catch it in her hands so that she could almost
see it dripping through her fingers like
sticky, golden honey. She felt that 'a new
soul had been born into her body.
“She’s different, she is that!” Tom said.
How different only Annie knew —freed
from the intolerable high-boned corsets, and
taking pains with the disfiguring hairs on
her chin.
“It’s like as if I’m drunk,” sh.e told her-
self one fiery day when Tom had ridden over
to a neighboring station. “And when you’re
drunk you’re likely to do things that you
wouldn’t when you’re sober.”
She put a little rouge on her face, and
felt sorry for Kate,' lying inert on the bed
racked with neuralgia.
“I’ll do now with some aspirin,” said
Kate wearily, after the evening’ meal. “Tom
won’t be back to-night, so I’ll get to sleep
early. You needn’t come in again.”
It was stifling in the house. Annie crept
out of her little bedroom with an ugly
crepe kimono fastened decorously over her
petticoat. Gilligan, who had come in late,
was sprawled on the verandah smacking
insects against his face.
She let herself down gently into a chair,
conscious of him, though he had made only
a vague, meaningless movement. She could
smell the warm, passionate smell of flowers.
It was lonely out there. She felt herself
unwanted, lonely. She groped fumblingly
after some tangible comfort. She wanted
something to happen—she hardly knew what.
She began to cry softly, for no reason at all.
“Better go to bed,” said Gilligan kindly,
from the shadows.
He leaned forward, b,is hands planted
squarely on his knees, his eyes seeking hgr.
Poor little thing! She was making him
feel a bit that way himself.
“I don’t want to go to bed,” she said in
a stifled voice. “It’s too hot and I’m sort of
frightened.”
“What of?” Gilligan sounded bored, but
there was a comforting quality in his soft
Irish voice. He realised that she was a
woman soft and sweet, and obviously a little
more than interested in him. His senses
became suddenly more alert. A hard life
this, leaving no room for women.... But
when one came under your notice, like this
-—he remembered Annie’s pale eyes, pretty in
a pleading sort of way, and tried to catch
a glimpse of them as she struggled for an
answer.
“I dunno,” said Annie stupidly. “Things.”
SB- ppjrnn to cry afresh ; easily, like a very
young child.
Gilligan stirred in his
chair. Few men can bear
to see a woman cry, and
something rose up in his
honest heart and made
him hot to comfort her.
He felt a little of the
love that all men keep
for all women, and which
needs only a touch to
spring it into life.
“Come over here,” he
said awkwardly. His
hands groped for hers in
the dark, and held them
warmly. He smelled the
cheap, penetrating scent
of roses as she leaned
against him.
In the silence they
could hear the dry pods
of the creepers bursting
like mimic pistol shots. Down by the water-
hole the frogs were calling dolorously apart
and together. The darkness seemed to flow
on and on.
“Don’t let us go in,” said Annie, breath-
lessly. “Stay like we are for a bit.”
In the morning she woke, beset with a
crowding sense of shame. Memories of the
night poured in upon her. What had she
done? Allowed a man to kiss her, make
violent love to her, talk as thougfu she
were almost as free and easy as one of those
loose flappers she and Pearl Drew had talked
about! True, she had held herself very
stiffly at first, fighting against that deadly
feeling of inertia, but she had let herself
rest against his chest after. She remembered
the feel of his stubby cheek against hers.
Soft, delightful things he had muttered; call-
ing her his little Irish rose, and saying that
he must have been blind because he hadn’t
noticed her before. She clenched her hands
nervously. What of it? She didn’t care!
She was glad he had kissed her—like that.
She supposed they -would drift into marriage.
She loved him, and that was a fact.
The sun beating hotly outside the kitchen
windows seemed to sting her into a new
knowledge of herself and him. She hadn’t
(Continued on page 53.)


a
m
mm
Mi
m
OBEI
'7
Duck
Shooting
Be Sure You Use Only
All-British
Cartridges
ELEY-KYNOCH
Proved by the most
experienced shooters
to be
The Best.
Obtainable at all
Gunsmiths and Dealers
Good Insurance
is more Important than a
Good Investment.
Your policy may be worthless to
your family.
The February number of
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
deals with this and a score
of other important items.
NOW ON SALE.
Single Copy, 2/-; per Annum, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or “The Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
(l)In selling land by agreement on terms,
are there any duty-stamps or registration
required? (2) What duty-stamps are re-
quired. on a land-leasehold agreement? —32ol.
Your question is not quite explicit, but
assuming you are actually conveying the land
then the Victorian Stamps Act of 1915 pro-
vides that, where the purchase price exceeds
£lO, for every £5O or fractional part thereof
the fee shall be 10s.; in the case of leases,
where the consideration or any part of it,
consists of money, for -every £5O or frac-
tional part thereof a fee of ss. Then, on the
rental, if it exceeds £65 p.a., there is a fee
of 2s. 6d. on every £5O p.a. or fraction
thereof.
Can you supply the names and addresses
of companies manufacturing fertiliser in Vic. ?
—3039.
The names and addresses of the chief
firms manufacturing fertilisers in Victoria
are: Cresco Fertilisers, Ltd., North Geelong;
and Cumming, Smith and Co. Pty., Ltd., 65
William-street; Mt. Lyell Mining and Rail-
Avay Co. Ltd., 381 Lt. Collins-street; Nobel
(Australasia), Ltd., 380 Collins-street; The
Phosphate Co-op. Co. of Australia, Ltd., 440
Lt. Collins-street; Wisclier and Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 499 Lt. Collins-street, all of Melbourne.
A complete list of fertiliser manufacturers,
together with analyses of the fertilisers
manufactured, will be found in a list of
registered fertilisers published in the Journal
of the Department of Agriculture, Melbourne,
of January, 1928, and obtainable from that
department (price 3d.).
(1) Do country sawmillers in N.S.W.
come under the 44 -Hours Act? (2) Can the
men demand to be paid at the mill? We
are paid at the mill-owner's residence, a
hotel close to the mill. (3) Can country
sawmillers claim f day’s pay extra for every
month icorked? (4) Can they claim pay-
ment for a full week’s work in cases where,
owing to shortage of logs or wet weather,
full time is not worked?— 3o62.
(1) Yes, unless you are working under
a Federal award. (2) The Federal award
prescribes payment at the mill or place of
work, unless the union or individuals agree
to be paid elsewhere. (3) Yes, under the
Federal award, if employment is terminated
in the course of the calendar year, and if
the employee has not had the one week’s
holiday at Christmas and the half-week at
Easter prescribed by the award. (4) Yes,
under the Federal award.
TEas there ever an Italian colony settled
in the Clarence River district (N.S.W. ) in
the ’Bo’s? If so, do they still exist in the
district as a separate colony or have they
blended with the local Australian inhabi-
tants. —3104.
(1) An organised body of Italian emi-
grants that arrived in N.S.W. in 1881 settled
a year later between Woodburn on the Rich-
mond River and Chatsworth on the Clarence
River and formed a settlement known as the
“New Italy” colony. (2) A writer in the
Italian Bulletin of Australia for Octo-
ber, 1926, stated: “Some of the children of
the first settlers remain on the Richmond
River, where they have prospered, but the
village centre that emphasised the national
character of the settlement has disappeared
and the descendants of the first colonists
have intermarried with the Australians.” An
excellent history of the settlement ran
through the columns of the journal mentioned
from October, 1926, onwards for several
issues.
Details for making a colloid of silver, 50
per cent. ? —3099.
An extremely intricate operation ; colloidal
solutions of metals are those in which the
particles are dispersed in so fine a state
that they can easily pass through a filter
paper and comply with other similar tests.
One method of making colloid suspensions of
metals is by means of the electric current.
Distilled water is placed in a vessel of 100
c.c’s. capacity and a trace of sodium hy-
droxide added in the form of .01 normal
sodium hydroxide solution. About 2cms.
below the surface are placed two electrodes
of silver wire. The points of these wires
are brought into contact and a current of
8 to 10 amperes at 100 volts is passed through
the wires, the points of which are separated
and brought together continually so that a
small voltaic arc is formed. In this way
the silver metal is gradually dispersed through
the water in the shape of a colloidal solu-
tion.
Names of two electric refrigerators and
the addresses of their agents in Sydney? —
2926.
“Kelvinator” (Dangar, Gedye, Young-
street, Sydney) and “Champion Electro
leer” (Thomas and Co., Ltd., Elizabeth-
street, Sydney).
(1) Is a copy of Gogol’s “The Revisor,”
in Russian, obtainable in Australia? (2)
Has it ever been “done into English”? (3)
Is there any Australian producer who would
be likely to give a careful translation of the
farce serious consideration? —2914.
(1) Not obtainable in Sydney in the
original text. (2) At least two English
translations to be had from Sydney book-
sellers. In English it is called “The Inspec-
tor General.” (3) As translations already
exist producers are unlikely to pay trans-
lation-fees for a further version. The play is
among those listed for future production by
Duncan Macdougall, of the Playbox Theatre,
Sydney. He and other repertory theatre
directors are always willing to consider trans-
lations of foreign plays that have not already
been translated.
How am I to kill, preserve and box butter-
flies and moths? The name of a reliable
book dealing with Australian butterflies?
2999.
Information relating to the capture, pre-
servation, and storage of butterflies may be
acquired by reference to one of the below-
mentioned books : —“A Guide to the Study
of Australian Butterflies,” by W. ,J. Rain-
bow (3s. 6d.) ; “The Butterflies of Aus-
tralia,” by G. A. Waterhouse and G. Lyell
(a quarto publication which gives descrip-
tions and illustrations of all the butterflies
found in Australia; price about £2 25.);
“The Insects of Australia and New Zealand,”
by R. J. Tillyard (a comprehensive work
treating- with all groups of Australian insects
and including a useful chapter on collecting
and preserving insects: price about £2 25.).
(a) Has Major Segrave’s motor-speed
record yet been beaten? (b) If so (1)
When? (2) Where? (3) By whom? (4)
Was the speed official? —3066.
(a) Segrave’s record still stands, (b)
The Stutz people are said to have issued a
challenge that their car will eclipse the
record, but no test has been made yet. Other
organisations, including a British syndicate,
are also said to be preparing special cars
to tackle the record.
Could, I manufacture a vermin exterminator
from snake venom?- —2934.
Impracticable, A snake seldom secretes
more than a few drops of poison. And it is
very doubtful whether it has insecticidal
properties.
(1) When were border duties abolished
between N.S.W. and Victoria? (2) Date
on which Victorian banks closed when Land
Boom collapsed? (3) When did Trades
Hall begin to take a prominent part in Vic-
torian politics? (4) When did Trenwith
first figure as a prominent Labor leader?
(5) When was railway line opened between
Albury and Wodonga? (6) Date of capture
of Ned Ke11y?— 2977.
(1) At the establishment of Federation.
'(2) April and May 1893. (3) After 1890-
91 Maritime strike. (4) After he became
president of the Melbourne Trades Hall
Council in 1880; he was elected to the Vic.
Assembly in 1889. (5) June 14, 1883. (6)
June 29, 1880.
'Name and address of secretary, Australian
Corriedale Shcepbreeders’ Association? Any
Australian books on sheep? —3o94.
W. Spier, c/o Pastoral Review, 10
Bligli-street, Sydney. “Australian Sheep
and Wool,” by Hawkeswortli (255.) ; “Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Sheep Farming,”
by Macdonald (155.) ; “Classing the Clip,”
by Crowley (15s.) —Angus and Robertson,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
(1) The average price of a small furnished
flat at Manly (Sydney) during summer
months? (2) A reputable local agent? —
3073.
(1) One bedroom, living-room, kitchenette
and bathroom, from about 3-| guineas, but
an advt. in the S. M. Herald may find
something cheaper. (2) Robey, Hanson
and Strong, Ltd.
(1) Which rifle would you advise me to
purchase—a 25-20 calibre or a .32 calibre?
(2) Which bullet is the swifter? (3) Which
has the greater' killing power at a given
distance ? —3293.
(1) For all-round purposes you will find
more use and have considerably more satis-
faction with the .32 calibre rifle, which is
capable of killing all classes of animals. (2)
and (3) The .32 bullet is far more effective
in every way than the 25-20.
Is there any certain cure for dandruff
which will not injure the scalp or hair?- —-
3265.
Dandruff may be cured, but it is impos-
sible to give a full treatment unless one sees
the natient at intervals. To begin with, cut
the hair very short and keep it short. Wash
it twice a day with spirit soap and water;
after each wash use three successive basins
of water to wash out all the soap. If, after
trying that for a week or two, you are mak-
ing no headway, let us know.
How can I mix a paint that will not blister
in the sun? Haw oil cannot be used in these
parts, as it will not dry. —32sl.
While raw linseed is quite suitable as a
paint medium in tropical countries it is
always well to aid the drying by the addition
of terebine or paste driers, the former in
the proportion of one part terebine to 15
of raw oil; the latter to the extent of 7 p.c.
of the paint bulk. It is essential that no
painting be done if there is any suspicion
of dampness in the timber itself if blistering
is to be avoided. “Where the painting is on
iron-work, substitute boiled linseed oil for
raw, adding terebine in the proportion of 1
to 30.
(1) Could I serve four years as an appren-
tice on a foreign sailing-ship, Finnish,
Swedish or American for instance, and then
be a candidate for the Board of Trade
second-mate's exam, in England or Australia?
(2)Hoxv is an. apprentice treated on board
a Finnish or American sailing-ship in the
way of food, etc.? Ci) Is there any news-
paper printed in Australia containing only
shipping news ? —2805.
(1) Four years’ service as an apprentice
or other seaman in a foreign ship, provided
that the candidate is 18 years of age and
that the service in a foreign ship was
foreign-going, and could be verified by official
discharge by the Consul for the country to
which the ship belongs, would qualify a can-
didate to sit for examination for secoud
mate under the British Board of Trade or
the Navigation (Examination of Masters
and Mates) Regulations. It is presumed
that you are a British subject. It would
be advisable for you to obtain Navigation
(Examination of Masters and Mates) Regu-
lations 1924 No. 205 and 1926 No. 17,
which may be obtained on application to
the Commonwealth Navigation Department,
Sydney, at the cost of Is. 9d. (2) The
treatment and food on American and Fin-
nish ships are reported to be good. (3) The
Daily Commercial News and Shipping
List, published in each State. Subscription
is £5 ss. per annum.
How can I tan a woolly sheepskin so as to
make a floor-mat? —3157.
A fresh skin in good condition is neces-
sary. Carefully scrape the flesh side of the
skin with a blunt knife and remove any
adhering flesh or fat. Dissolve soz. alum,
3oz. salt and 2oz. saltpetre in each gallon
of water necessary to completely immerse the
skin, and soak for 12 hours, occasionally
turning and moving the skin in the water.
Dry for about one hour; then stretch and
nail out tightly on a table or wall, and rub into
the skin equal parts of alum and saltpetre
finely powdered about 20 or 30 minutes daily
for three days. Keep out of the sun. The
pelt will then be cured and the wool firmly
set. Wash the wool two or three times iii
plenty of good soapsuds, not too warm,
adding about half-cupful of kerosene to the
water. Cut the skin into a neat shape and
dye any color. Boiling dye is used, but care
must be taken to keep the skiu out of the
hot dye.


WunderLich
//// M ETAL CEl Lf NCS
in hi
m.
w -m
Q-
0
Make certain that your
Ceilings will be attractive
and in good taste-—instal
Wunderlich Art Metal
Ceilings. The wide range of
beautiful designs will appeal to
you prices will suit your purse
results will afford permanent
satisfaction. Inspect the popular
patterns stocked by your
local supplier of building
materials.
WUNDERLICH LTD.
Baptist St., Redfern,
Sydney.
Write to-day for
Catalogue, M. 27.
r
j *
yfU^'
SaVo Trouble
and a Mix up of Apparel
Which often nappens at the Laundry,
when Linen or Woollen Articles are not
plainly marked—so, be wise, save trouble
and loss, and
Mark all Linen with
names
They are “BEST BY TEST” - absolutely
Fadeless and Durable.
“A Few Stitches and They’re on.”
Actual Size. Style No 6
' PRICES |
12 dot l f 6
6 dot. 5'- >
3 do Z . 3 r e
Sold by all Best Drapers
Write for Name Style Circular to
J, & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond,
Melbourne
&
17/7/-Suits to measure, £517/-
At Murdoch’s Great Rebuilding Sale
Pure Wool Worsteds, in Browns,
Fawns, Dove Greys, Navy, etc. Also
All-Wool Serges, guaranteed pure
indigo dye. Faultlessly tailored to
your measure and hand-finished for
£5/17/-. Post Free. Write to Desk E.
Murdoch’s in Park St. Ltd. Sydney
HAWAIIAN/MODEL
V,
Easy to
pray
©V
The Kilauea, in dark
imitation koawood fin-
ish. White Ivorite
binding on front and
back edges.
Complete with case. Price
( Freight Free)
Other moTlels from 20/- to 60/-
25/-
DffC'iptive Catalogue on appli'-ation.
OBTAINABLE FROM ANV MUSIC.DEALER
OR DIRECT FROM
A.P. SYKES
271 Lit. Collins St.
cMelbourne.
V'fncn ordering plearc mention Ihir pa^er.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices. 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
A change to Benger’s
has been the turning
point in the life of many
a backward baby.
Unsolicited testimony.
“Baby weighed only 3!4 lbs. when a
fortnight old. We tried several foods
then we discovered ‘Benger’s.’ Baby took
Benger’s without trouble. She gained 12
ozs. the first week. She is now 8 months old,
and weighs 16 lbs. a happy, plump, and
healthy little girl”
ŕ
Food
is always prepared for
use with fresh new milk.
Benger's Food is sold by
Chemists and Stores every,
where.
Benger’s Booklet for Mothers,
post free from Benger’s Food, Ltd., 350, George St., Sydney.
Sole Manufacturers: Benger’s Food, Ltd., Otter Works, Manchester, England.
This year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,’ but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
b® en .like that when first she had come to
1 Merri. She had altered unbelievably.
‘You done it, you done it!” she muttered
exultantly shaking her fist up to the hot
ball of sun.
Yes, that was it all right. She couldn’t
explain, but it w T as as though the sun had
roused her up to do battle for herself. She
had ‘come alive.” She felt that she could
not wait until Gilligan got back from the
ridge to which he had ridden out early. But
when he came he found her depressed by
a message that had come. Her mother was
ill- She must go at once. The coach left
m the morning. She could not wait any
longer.
“Don’t worry,” said Gilligan, in his lum-
bering- way. “You’ll come back. If you don't
111 go across to Melbourne —see? Got a
brother in the skin line there. We’re going
to git married after —see?”
He was a little astonished himself at the
swift turn of events and inclined to be
dubious about that Irish impulsiveness that
had led him to the point where he now
stood. But she was a nice soft little thing,
and he supposed he was in love with her.
Anyhow, a man had to marry some day.
Annie whimpered a little as she went off.
Passionately she longed to stay. Some deep-
down resentment surged within her when she
thought of her mother and the city. The
sun was coming down like a sheet of golden
water. In it danced grotesquely the figures
of Kate and Tom and Pat Gilligan.
* * * _ *
Two months later Gilligan walked down
the stone steps into the sweet-shop. He saw
Annie at once. She looked pinched and
cold, and looked at him vaguely, as if she
did not remember him, or as if, if she did,
it _was an unpleasant remembrance. Some-
thing in his heart fell a little. She seemed
nervous and distant, and he had come a long
way to see her. Annie, in her absence, had
become more precious to him than he had
imagined possible. He had invested her with
a thousand unknown qualities.
“It’s me,” he said with a foolish, uncom-
fortable grin. “I’ve come to take you back,
Annie. Remember what you promised? You
never wrote, but I still take it it’s going to
marry me you are.”
She polished a glass nervously, her quick,
jerky movements reminding him of a rabbit’s.
He could see where the hard line of her high
corsets showed through her silk blouse.
“We were silly,” she said, speaking in a
fretful voice. “I never”
There was a faint hostility dawning in hex-
pale eyes. Gilligan stared at her uncom-
prehendingly.
“Then you never meant,” he began stumb-
lingly.
“Oh, I dunno,” she said in a sullen voice.
“I must have been different at the time.
Up there, I mean. I couldn’t go on with it
now—ever. I don’t want to get married —
evei-. That’s a fact. I’m not made that way.”
He looked at her, struggling for under-
standing. lie remembered that night on the
verandah when she had cried. If she hadn’t
“For the love of Mike!” he said heartily.
“It was you yourself that gave the lead. If
you’d ’a’ left me alone, I”
She stopped him with a little cry.
“I dunno,” she said heavily. “It must ’a’
been tile sun up there!”
“The sun!”
He froAvned at her, his cui-ling eyelashes
sticking into the flesh round his eyes. And
all at once it dawned on him that it was dis-
tasteful for her even to look at him.
A customer had come in, and she was
moving about with an air of efficiency, squirt-
ing a pinkish liquid into a glass. He had the
feeling that she was happy doing that, that
she would never do anything else.
“Well, good-bye,” he said awkwardly,
from the foot of the steps.
“Good-bye,” she called swiftly, her face
lightened with a look of relief.
Well, he was gone again. That was good.
She would never undei-stand what had got
hold of her up there. It made her hot and
ashamed to think of it. Phew! It was cold
down here. She rubbed her hands together.
A little pale gljnt of sun came goldenly
through glass. She blinked, and it was gone.
Hateful that hot sun up at Merri Merri!
There was something wicked in it. Well, she
was glad she had had to come home.
She turned to the nickel taps with a new
air of escape.
“Strawberry ice, one. That’s one shilling,
please.”
The Letter.
THE useful at the hotel read it, but
attached no importance to its contents.
He just dropped it again, and it was
duly destroyed with the rest of that day’s
waste-paper. But let us look over his shoul-
der before the thing goes finally to the
flames:
Dear Jim, —I suppose we all make mistakes, and
it seems to me that we made a pretty bad one. It’s
no good crying over spilt milk, and I feel that,
after our experience, the only thing for me to do is
to take such action as will leave you free to set
right, as far as possible, the unfortunate step we took
three years ago. I know that the fault was mine
and have only to add that I hope you will be able
to fix things up with Bill and that success and
prosperity may attend you both. —Jack.
There was, you see, nothing to connect it
with a stamped but unposted envelope in the
same batch of rubbish addressed to Mrs. J.
Sanderson, and, anyway, how should anv
stranger know that Jeanette’s name had
always been abbreviated into “Jim”?
It was a funny business, that marriage of
hers, too. Everybody in the township thought
it was all settled between her and Bill Madi-
son, though there were plenty to forecast
that she’d have a lively time with Bill’s tem-
per. Still, it was quite a surprise when she
went off with Jack Sanderson. Handsome
he certainly was, and reputed to be pretty
comfortably off since the death of his father,
but his objections to toil seemed to be deep
and sincere. And he gambled.
The couple never showed up again in
Jeanette’s birthplace, and local opinion con-
sidered that Jack showed discretion in giving
Bill a wide berth. Bill seemed to take it
much more quietly than might have been ex-
pected. He never mentioned either of them
again, and nobody was inclined to introduce
their names into any conversation in which
he took part. Bill simply settled down
and worked his land.
It was rumored that the Sandersons had
been seen in Melbourne, and that Jack was
looking pretty seedy on it, but nobody had
any definite news. It was probably a pure
coincidence that Bill Madison decided he had
earned a spell and went off to Sydney to have
one, and certainly the merest chance that
there was no one behind the hotel office counter
when he entered to engage a room. While
he waited for the clerk, a page put another
letter in front of a row that apparently
waited to be posted.
The direction on this envelope was to Mrs,
J. Sanderson at an address in Melbourne.
There was nobody in the office, and Bill's
long arm stretched across the little counter
and the letter went into his breast-pocket.
The clerk returned and the register was pre
sented for signature.
The name “W. Madison” appears immedi-
ately under that of J. Sanderson, and the
book shows them as allotted rooms 35 and 36.
The name of the hotel is not important to
this account, but anyone who is able to place
it will probably recollect that these rooms
are at the back of the building and open on
to the same balcony.
Bill Madison put his suitcase in his room
and went down to the bar. He’d have a
drink and think things out clearly. Actually,
he got drunk, and when he finally staggered
into his room he took the letter from his
pocket, fumbled clumsily with the envelope,
stared stupidly at the written words and,
crumpling up the paper, flung it towards the
fireplace. He then stumbled to the bed and
fell upon it, fully dressed. It was nearly
noon when he awoke, and the room had evi-
dently been tidied without disturbing him.
It was while he was taking an “eye-
opener” that the recollection of the letter
came back to him. Now, what had Jack
said in it to Jeanette? Oh, what odds!
He’d have another drink and feel better. What
was that Melbourne address? The swine
had cut a decent chap out, and then had
not been man enough to stick to the girl
when he’d got. her. It’d serve him right to
be called to a reckoning. Give him a
thundering good fright. Why not? What
with? Why, hands would do for a skunk
like that. No, make a job of it. Scare him
properly with that automatic he’d brought
down to get the gunsmith to have a look
at.
Later in the afternoon he went upstairs
and got it out —just, an ordinary .22 auto-
matic, with a broken recoil-spring. That
didn’t matter; it wasn’t apparent. He would
give it a bit of a rub-up, so as to make the
thing look more sinister in its show of well-
oiled preparation, but he found that he had
no oil. Never mind. He’d have a nap and
then go out and get some.
When lie awoke it was becoming dusk and
the pistol still lay on his dressing-table. He
slipped it into his pocket and went out.
The shops were shut. Stupid of him not
to have remembered it was Saturday. Any-
way, it was a silly idea. He was more than
a match for Jack with his hands. Where
was the sense in playing about with a silly
little broken gun? It probably wasn’t even
worth repairing.
His wandering had taken him to the Quay,
and he strode to the water-side and hurled
the weapon into the Harbor. He felt curi-
ous misgivings immediately lie had done so.
The thing might have come in useful some
day.
At ten o’clock that evening he stepped on
to the balcony, and noticed, as he did so,
that the light in Jack’s room went out.
That wouldn’t matter. He waited a few
moments, and then passed through the open
French-window into the other room. As he
crossed the sill a shot rang out and there
was a sound of something falling.
He crossed to the switch ; then he stared
at what had been Jack Sanderson. He
picked up the little automatic which had
fallen from the dead hand to the floor.
Jack Sanderson had taken “such action
as will leave you free.”
It was while Bill Madison stood there,
noting that the pistol was exactly such a
one as he had cast away, that they burst into
the room.
The trial was quite simple and straightfor-
ward. There was ample evidence that the
accused had been drinking heavily before the
tragedy. A chambermaid testified that she
had seen a weapon, similar, she thought, to
that produced, on Madison’s dressing-table
on the afternoon of the shooting. There
was jealousy for a motive, and there was the
indisputable fact that the accused had been
discovered in the dead man’s room with a
recently-discharged pistol in his hand. His
story of throwing an unserviceable weapon
into the Harbor was, of course, discredited:
he could give only the haziest description of
the spot where he supposed it to have sunk,
and his statement was entirely uncorrobor-
ated.
The jury had little difficulty in agreeing
upon a verdict, and the Law sent William
Madison to join John Sanderson. It was
unfortunate for Bill that he intercepted
Jack’s farewell letter to Jim.
GEOFFREY CUMINE.
From a South Window.
The little clouds have drifted,
Like silver babies lifted
By mothering arms of wind.
Across the beaded grasses
The first shy sunbeam passes,
Then gushing glories blind.
Now daylight dimly sketches
The bay's long violet stretches;
And, outlined velvetly,
The low blue hills of Mornington
Are soft across the sea.
All colors curl in Heaven—
Seven times the rainbow’s seven,
From gold to amethyst.
A blackbird ripples early;
The flowering trees loom pearly,
Like angels in the mist;
And far in dreamy distance.
Past waves whose hushed insistence
Patterns a crescent strand,
The low blue hills of Mornington
Are peaks in Fairyland.
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.


AR
CL'A'S'S
• • • •*.*
a a
• fr~
m
-and again on
Barnet GlassTy res
i~ .n Essex Super-Six
equipped with Barnet Glass Tyres, Messrs. Alan
Mackay and Barney Wood left Perth at 6 a.m,
Wednesday, 25th January, and arrived Adelaide
5.17 a.m. on Saturday, 28th January, lowering
the Perth-Adelaide record by 2hr. 55min.
They arrived Melbourne 10.22 a.m. on Sunday,
29th January, lowering the Perth-Melbourne
record by 15hr. 22min.
Leaving almost immediately, they arrived
Sydney 7.5 a.m. on Monday, 30th January, low-
ering the Perth-Sydney record by 22hr. 40min.
Barnet Glass
tyres
8G.6.J


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.
YOU MUST LIKE TO BE POOR
if you earn money and spend it.
Don’t!
Earning money is NOT easy, but saving is, if you’ve any
strength of mind at all.
Ensure against the future by opening a Savings Account.
The Money you save will earn Interest as long as you do
not urgently need it for any other purpose—*it will be immediately
available to you when you do.
Every Post Office is a Savings Agency of the
Commonwealth lank of Bustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
The London and
North-Eastern Railway
of England and Scotland
Serves
Beautiful Cathedral Cities,
Seaside Resorts, Dales & Moors,
Inland Spas, Castles, Abbeys.
THE EAST COAST ROUTE
(Track of the “Flying Scotsman”) is the
Shortest and Quickest between
London and Scotland.
Illustrated Booklets describing Resorts on the
L.N.E.R. will be gladly supplied on applica-
tion to Messrs BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches; or
In London at the L.N.E.R. West End Offices,
71 Regent Street, and 59 Piccadilly, W.l.
Agents throughout New Zealand:
J. A. REDPATH & SONS, LTD.
TOUR ENGLAND & SCOTLAND
by L.N.E.R.
THE AFFAIR OF THE LUTAL FORTS.
BY
ARTHUR H. ADAMS
IT was at Taku in China, during the Boxer
Rebellion, that I met my little midship-
man. He was a unit of the British
Fleet that had hurried up the coast of China
with assorted battleships and cruisers of
all the nations, the prelude to the capture
of Pekin. He was only a “snotty,” but he
had the assurance of an admiral.
I _ was fretting my young soul out on
British Transport No. 57, one of the inter-
national fleet lying off the bar of Taku.
I was anxious to get ashore, for there were
already rumors of the fall of the Chinese
capital—false, of course. I had another
reason for wanting to land, a reason forcibly
shared by the British admiral. Transport
No. 57 carried a cargo of mules; and when
she signalled her burden to the British admiral
he had given her a berth half a mile to the
lee, and, curiously enough, just to windward
of the German flagship. Bets had been
made all round the fleet how long they
would stand us. On board there was much
too much mule. Nobody would come within
whiff of us.
Late in the afternoon, however, relief
came. Straight from the British flagship
came tearing along the British admiral’s
natty launch; and Midshipman Quaife,
dapper, precise, smart, alert, stepped on
board our transport. He saluted and de-
livered his despatches with a click. He
seemed absurdly young, just out of his pram,
a trim boy’s figure in white uniform. His
pith helmet —the day was sweltering—gave
a glimpse of the face of the youngster,
with big wondering blue eyes, a pert, irre-
sponsible nose, and cheeks too young to
shave. It was the mouth —the pretty lips
absurdly straightened into a pose of
authority—that matured his almost girlish
face. But he was in sole command of the
admiral’s launch of the flagship Barfleur.
H-is little craft had a speed of fourteen
knots, and was manned by placid-faced blue-
jackets. As he sprang aboard us he looked
at least Admiral Quaife, in command of the
China squadron. Anyhow, he meant to be.
Our captain retired to his cabin with his
despatches, and Midshipman Quaife, with a
little sigh of relief, could afford to relax his
official reserve. He asked for news—news
from anywhere. I dived below and brought
up a week-old Shanghai paper, filled with
bright rumors which had served to while
away many a dull hour in the Shanghai
Club. But it also contained news from
South Africa, telling of kopje and Roberts
and Baden-Powell that stirred the British
heart. It was pap for our midshipman.
I mentioned to him my eager desire to
get on shore.
“It is a bit whiffy,” he agreed. “I’ve got
to take some despatches ashore now, sir,
and if you’ll get your kit I’ll take you. My
launch is at your disposal, sir. If you put
yourself under my care I’ll see you landed
at Tsin-Ho.”
. Three minutes later my kit and I tumbled
into the launch.
“Now then, let her go!” said the com-
mander.
. “Aye, aye, sir!” replied the engineer, look-
ing down upon his diminutive officer with the
indulgent smile of a fond parent dealing with
a self-willed child.
“We simply played with the Italian launch
yesterday,” lie aloofly mentioned.
We left the forest of funnels behind, and
plunged up the muddy river, swerved sharply
to the bank and my kit and I were dumped
ashore. I shook the midshipman’s hand.
“ a i to see y°u again, sir,” he chirped.
Admiral says I may have a spell ashore if
there s any fun going.”
f Aud at home boys of his age w T ere just
thinkmg of going up to Marlborough, with
Oxford looming ahead!
The capture of the forts at the entrance
ot the Pei-110 gave the mixed forces access
to the highway to the Chinese capital; but
ten miles to the north the Chinese Imperial
touted over the Lutai forts, and
the Chinese Imperial troops were still in
force not six miles from Tientsin. There,
on my arrival at the shell-stricken city,
looking down from the balcony of the Astor
House, among the innumerable varieties of
uniforms that made a brilliant picture in
the street below, I was attracted by a
natty little figure in blue. It was Mr. Mid-
shipman Quaife on his lawful occasions. I
ran down and accosted him. In answer to
my remark he said, “Whisky.” It occurred
to me that the determining factor in' his
choice was the impossibility at that period
ot obtaining milk.
“I say, sir, we’re going to have some fun
began. “S’pose you’ve heard
ot it? It’s the Lutai forts; we’re going to
smash them up. It ought to be rippin’,
■what ?
I learnt from him that the expedition was
to start at 4 a.m., and would consist of
160 men, half British and the rest Rus-
sians. In those days of international rivalry
the expeditions were divided up between the
various allies. No force could set out to
■win glory on its own; the jealousies were
too serious. The little column, half-Russian,
half-British naval men, were to advance from
two directions, starting simultaneously at
half-past eight. The time was fixed with
precision, for if either division failed to
support its ally it would expose the other
to the possibility of a cross-fire from one
of the flanks of the Chinese fort. The two
bodies were to march light, without haver-
sacks or impedimenta. And for this glorious
exploit—as Quaife visioned it—he had the
luck to command a sub-section of the blue-
jackets.
As we strolled to his mess that evening
through the busy streets, the challenges of
sentries of every European nationality, from
the mechanical “’Alt-00-goes-there?” of the
Sikh to the unintelligible warnings of Rus-
sian or Japanese, meeting us at every corner
of that over l patrolled city of ruins, some-
thing of the war-spirit of the place seized
him and lifted him out of his trim affecta-
tion of studied reserve. He was no longer
an officer in the British Navy who carried
admiral’s despatches—and some day would
w T rite real despatches of his own—and
wouldn’t he make his captains sit up ! He
was a mere child, eager for “fun,” ready for
all the adventures that he had read about
in his gallant story-books. Once, pausing
at a street-corner lit by flares, I thought
I saw in his smooth face a glimpse of fear,
a sudden sense of uncertainty.
The exultation died out of his voice. Hp
looked up at me; he was only a child, after
all.
“You know,” he said haltingly, “this will
be my first chance of being under fire —we’re-
sure to be under fire, sir, won’t we? A
fellow feels a little bit scared how he’ll
behave, don’t you know? Of course,” he said
with a determined shrug, “I’m not fright-
ened ; but it’s all so new to me; and there’s
the responsibility. A man must do his best.
It wouldn’t do to disgrace the Service.
Besides.. . .there’s Her!”
I looked quickly at him. This child....
and Her!
He shamefacedly explained. “You see,
I’m her only son ; and I must carry on for
the Service —that first, of course, and then
my mother.”
We had paused before a fire in a court-
yard, with a few French privates grouped
around it. He pulled out a carefully-swathed
portrait of a pretty woman—a delicate flower
of a face, with her son’s innocent eyes, her
“WHAT IT FEELS LIKE TO HAVE A
SMALL HOLE IN YOUR SWIM-
MING COSTUME.”
son’s dainty nose, but with a mouth full-
lipped and soft. The resemblance was strik-
ing between portrait and Midshipman
Quaife; but it instantly struck me that his
mother must have borne her motherhood
lightly; her eyes seemed to me shallow and
the chin w r as too lovely and rounded. She
was not made for sorrow: she would take
the easiest way round the corners of life.
I said “Good-night” at the courtyard of
his mess. As I turned back he lingered.
I retraced my steps: evidently he had some-
thing more to say.
“Of course,” he hurriedly said, “I don’t
expect anything to happen to me to-morrow;
but if I was. .. .knocked out, and all that,
I’d he glad if you’d tell her when you get
back to England. You could find her through
the Admiralty. She’d be so grateful and all
that, don’t you know, sir?”
The boy was keyed up to his first real
adventure. To-morrow he would be under
fire. Indubitably his luck was in! And the
eternal boy broke through his official mask.
“I would like her to know that I didn’t
disgrace her. My father was a colonel; he
used to swear at peace; and the death he
wanted failed him. He died in bed —dia-
ONE FOR HIS NOB.
"I shall never marry until I meet my exact
opposite.”
"Well, I’m afraid I can’t help you. I don’t
know any girl nice enough for you.”
betes, they told me. It was rough on the
pater, wasn’t it? If a chap has to die, it
must be rippin’ to die in action!”
He looked past me into the night. I am
sure he saw himself hurling his blazing,
shell-riddled flagship straight at the head of
the enemy’s line, while his gaze went now
and then upwards to the Union Jack blazingly
defiant at the broken masthead!
* * * *
We had little time to sleep that night. At
four o’clock in the morning the little column
wound away through the darkness. I hur-
ried along the line and overtook Mr. Mid-
shipman Quaife, manfully keeping step with
his men. But there were no further con-
fidences. He was on duty.
We were marching through burnt and
demolished villages and over tracks that
skirted the edges of the interminable kowliang
fields. From the few intact villages we were
met by yellow mongrels, broad-faced and
wolfish ; and we felt stealthy figures closing
in behind us, wondering what the foreign
devils were about in the darkness. Unseen
eyes peered forth and withdrew; in those
piled maize-sheaves cautious fingers parted
the tall stalks in silence. We were marching
through a land of the dead, but the dead
trembled as we passed. And as we moved
noiselessly onward we imagined the silent
gatherings of peasants creeping from roof
and courtyard. Upon what unsuspected vil-
lage would these intruders rush with their
purposeless vengeance?
We spoke quietly of these things. I imag-
ined Quaife’s lips straighten as we strode
along. Suddenly I discovered that I was
hungry. Quaife turned on me "with a gesture
of impatience. Food, when all these exciting
things were just ahead of us! He told me
he had not been able to take any breakfast.
But now that we were nearing our objec-
tive the midshipman steadied himself. Yet
he had to speak of her —his mother, and of
how proud he would be if he came out of the
affair witli distinction. It was not for him-
self but for his mother: everything in the
world was for his mother.
We came in sight of the forts, and halted
a little pine grove for the final rush.
Word came that the Russians on our right
had reached their objective for the push-off.
Before us in the approaching dawn lay a
field of tall millet, higher than the stature
of a man. The assault seemed easy. We
were to debouch into the millet field at the
whistle, make our way through the millet
and out into the cleared ground before the
forts. But the enemy was prepared. Not for
nothing had wo felt the impalpable presences
around us as we marched in silence.
The whistles went simultaneously. A
ragged volley came from the forts.
In the giant kowliang we found unsuspected
obstacles. The ground was intersected by
muddy creeks, into which the troops sank
almost to their waists. But at last the naval
detachment struggled through and out into
the open before the fort. It was no longer a
strict military assault; the ditches had made
our advance ragged. But owing to Quaife’s
slightness he more quickly surmounted the
obstacles and passed me and the heavier sea-
men. As the millet thinned I saw Midship-
man Quaifo easily out-distancing our troops,
well out in front. But to the right there
appeared a huge Russian, lumbering along
with the gait of a bear, but making astonish-
ing speed. Those two figures, so dissimilar,
led the way on their own.
Then I guessed what was happening. It
was a race for the forts, with the prize, the
Chinese Imperial flag, flaunting its defiance
On the gate of the fort. The co-operation
strictly agreed upon before the advance had
been forgotten. It was now a contest be-
tween the British and the Russians: the
honor and the glory were for the Russians or
ourselves. It was a bigger thing than the
capture of the forts. In the minds of
the Chinese this was a test of the prestige
of the contending forces.
For a few instants w y e watched the race.
The huge Russian and the diminutive boy
raced forward. The antipathies between the
composite force of the Allies had clearlj
shown themselves. Quaife passed his antago-
nist ; then the boy slipped and fell behind.
But once again Quaife was in the lead; and
a cheer broke out as it was seen that the boy
was gradually forging ahead. He was well
on liis way to the gate, running easily, well
ahead, when he fell.
The tiny blue-clad figure lay still. The
Russian lumbered after him, passed him
without more than a glance, and reached
the gates of the fort. The Russian had
won. There w 7 as no resistance. We could
see the figures of the Chinese fleeing before
us, deserting the fort. The fight was over,
with a score or so of the attacking force
wounded or dead.
We found poor Quaife dead. But the
nearest to him wondered. The naval surgeon
confirmed our suspicions. Quaife had not
fallen from the scattered firing from the
fort; he had been shot through the back,
Subsequently the bullet w r as found; it was
a Russian bullet.
There was nothing to be done, except to
cover up the incident. In the state oi
jealousy among the Allies no official report
was allowed to get out. It w 7 as a bad busi-
ness, but at all costs the new r s of the affair
had to be smothered up. Quaife was merely
reported killed in action.
After the Boxer show I found myself back
in London. The day after my arrival I
obtained the address of poor Quaife’s mother,
I wrote to her informing her that I would
call on her the following day. That evening
the special artist of a London paper, w 7 itb
whom I had shared the hardships of the
Boxer campaign, carried me off to dine with
him and insisted on my going on with him
to a function.
Unwillingly I went. With the nagging
memory of little Quaife I w 7 as in no mood
for gaiety. His death seemed scf*unnecessary.
That evening as I stood in the crowded
ballroom I felt an outcast in a w T elter of
luxury. Once, during a dance, I glimpsed
the face of a woman, a beautiful, delicate,
over-civilised faee, swirling past me in the
crow 7 d. The face seemed familiar. I looked
again, in the hope of recognising an acquaint-
ance ; but she disappeared amid the crowd.
Later in the evening as I w r as moving with
a partner to whom I had been introduced
I came suddenly face to face with the
woman again. That unseized memory still
eluded me. I wondered whether I had met
her somewhere before. I questioned my
partner.
“That is Mrs. Quaife,” she said. “She’s
one of our beauties.”
Instantly I connected the face of poor
Quaife with the beautiful woman. She was
his mother.
“Wasn’t her boy killed out there in
China?” my partner asked.
“Yes,” I said. “I was w 7 ith him when he
was killed. I am going to call on her to-
morrow.”
My partner looked swiftly. at me. “I
wouldn’t, if I were you,” she concluded.
“Terrible business,” I said; “but I’ve got
to see her. I promised the lad, in case —
you know.”
I daresay my partner had a hand in the
encounter that occurred later.
The dance was nearing its end when my
partner urged me into one of the ante-rooms.
Her curiosity had triumphed over her dis-
taste.
“There!” She indicated a pair sitting,
talking, obviously interested only in them-
selves. The woman was Quaife’s mother.
Hers was the face that the boy had so
reverently shown me in China.
“A foreigner,” said my partner. He looked
a barbarian even in his correct evening
attire. The last time I had seen him was
in front of the Lutai forts, lumbering along
in pursuit of Mr. Midshipman Quaife, with
the adored photograph of his mother in his
pocket, just before he w r as shot.


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 ..£18,366,297
Directors: Sir Maiik Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yauwood; H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.;
George J. Spy, LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rot-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jf.nkins.
London Directors :
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd, James Tore.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. ..
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. ’374J97
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,609,655
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at interest
for fixed
periods and Jransacts all other usual Banking business.
Australian Mutual E '‘“s«'‘“ d
67 PittStfsydnay Pl OVidSht SoCldy
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1926
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over
Accumulated Funds .. .''
Annual Income ..
£2,887,200
£4,893,000
£63,600,000
£9,60%000
The Society transacts livery Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. VV. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
ESTABLISHED 1802.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances effected on aii classes ot
' Buildings, Stocks, Furni
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks ou Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson. Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
m
If you are Ruptured write at once for full particular!
of this Modern Invention. Light, cool and com-
fortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
agents: GUYATT & CO., Ebt 1868
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss Makers.
257 a GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Bridge Street), SYEITEY.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with share*.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.
Shipping', etc.
“»»Sf
\N
s>
• uniiectStates
EUROPE
across tfie racific
mdJVortfiAmerica
TRAVEL BY THE
CAN ADI AN-AUSTRAL ASIAN LINE
TO VANCOUVER
(via Auckland, Suva and Honolulu),
Or by the
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(via Wellington, Rarotonga and Tahiti).
Through bookings to and from Canada, United States and Europe
with the choice of any railway route across the American Continent
and of any steamship line across the Atlantic.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY, LTD.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
fjollD^fe URSIONS
l» JAVA (The Beautiful).
Monthly Sailings by the MARELLA (T. 7475) and
MALABAR (T. 5000), via the Picturesque Torres Strait.
Travel via JAVA to EUROPE, the Smooth-Water Route.
South Sea Island Tours
Regular Six-Weekly Sailings from Sydney.
New Guinea s.s. montoro,
Visiting 16 Island Ports.
Solomons
S.S. MATARAM,
Visiting 24 Island
Ports.
Full Particulars from—
BURNS, PHILP & COY. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
*i
3gaacg
BANK OF
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .. ..
RESERVE LIABILITY ..
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
£7,481,960
5,650,000
7,481,960
£20,613,920
Directors
Tlior.-.as Buckland, Esq., President.
Cliiirles Binnie. Ksq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esa.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors ; S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—’George Stredt, Sydney. London Office—29 TlireadDeedle Street, E.C. 2.
514 Branches arid Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand. Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made, to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price ------- 3d.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE ami FREMANTLH
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Potts).
ŗ
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no cargo for Mackay),
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
at Townsville for outports).
ř
En Route to America Tarry Awhile in
HAWAII
Or take a six to eight weeks’ Round Trip for
about £lOO to £l5O. It casts no extra passage
money to stop off in Hawaii. Quaint tearooms
and gardens; all American conveniences, good
hotels \4ith meals 12/- to £3 per day; apart-
ments and furnished cottages. Entire cost Syd- 7
ney to Honolulu and return (two or three
weeks in Hawaii) and a day at Suva or Pago
Pago, about £lOO. Unique vacation ; complete
change in land of music and sunshine, tropical
coloring, fruits and flowers. Balmy climate,
golfing, tramping, outrigger canoeing, surf-board
riding, outdoor sports. Inter-island cruises.
Volcanic wonderlands. Ask nearest travel agency
or write Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept. 26, Box
241-D, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for beautifully
colored booklet, enclosing this advertisement.
See Lovely Hawaii This Year.
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
liißunic 12,500 tons, Feb. 21
tDemosthenes 11,500 „ Feb. 27
sMedic 12,000 „ March 6
'Nestor 15,000 „ March 20
i: Ceramic 18,500 „ March 20
fThemistocles 11,500 „ March 27
*Ulvsses .... 15,000 „ April 13
tEuripides. . . 15,000 „ April 21
♦Anchises .. . 10,000 ~ June 4
tSuevic 12,500 ~ June 19
♦First class only, tFirst and Third class.
t“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agents
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALHANALD . 13,100
BARIIABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BAH A DIN 13 .. 13,100
BENDIGO .. 13.100
BEL'I'ANA
HENAI.LA
BO I! DA
BEHUIMA
Tons.
.. 11,100
.. 11.100
.. 11.100
.. 11.100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
A GENTS —GTT.CHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON,
l'el. 86701-2-3. 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WUCLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE;
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £*
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/&/■
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £.3/15/*
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/*
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co.. T-td.
Huddart Parkei L'il
Magnifloent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply MUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.


Be Pretty!
Be
Dainty!
Be
Attractive!
Be a
Rexona
Girl!
m
m
:>\ V
m
f
m
u
m
'i-:
sr*M
5V
MISS MURIEL STARR, a
charming Rexona Girl, writes :
“I think Rexona Soap is sim-
ply indispensable. It keeps
the hair in perfect condition,
and for the complexion it is
excellent
Girls! Keep Your Youth
and Charm —Use Only
REXONA SOAP
Nothing adds to a girl’s charm and beauty more than an exquisite skin and perfect com-
plexion. To obtain this, and to retain it, there is nothing to equal Rexona Soap. If
your skin is sallow, tanned or blotchy, you will be both surprised and delighted with the
good results obtained from the daily use of Rexona Soap for the toilet and bath. Eight
out of every 10 women in the bet-
ter walks of life have adopted Rex-
ona Soap for their personal
hygiene, and know there can be no
real beauty without a clear skin
and perf«*t complexion, and it is
only by daily and continuous use
of Rexona Soap that the bloom
of youth can be retained even
until and past middle age.
m
i//ym
m
yaw
§
CS-b^Z
V b
1/'
#
fm
as- ■
vi iife'i ■' ?
i m
■
11.1
nt
fir
*
->. v
1
&
' "> Jf 1
mm.
w$
IS
H
SB,
i
lof
r
Si
i: .. V-
'■ :
B
f .. ■ I V
f -I « I x
* ■ # l.
1
"vT
±yA
m*
m
fe;;:. ' :
DADD
: M
HOME! ,
■-W ‘ /
HILLIER'S
CHOCOLATES
“And he’s brought me
one of those lovely
Big Red Boxes!”
Made to-day and mailed
to you to-day.
Send for Catalogue Illustrated
with reproductions of our Con-
fectionery in color.
PRICES:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/8,
20/- and 30/-
Post Free to any address in
Australia.
162-66 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE AND KING STREETS;
CASTLEREAGH STREET
(Next Theatre Royal),
SYDNEY.
Terra Incognita.
T HEARD them calling, calling far,
| There, where the blind and vampire
night
With horror compassed every star,
And sucked the pale blood of its light.
Far faring on lost tracks alone,
Beyond the measured ways of men,
Past the grey frontiers of the known,
I sought the place of death again.
I found their crosses, lichen-starred,
Beneath great orchids making gay
The forest, gold and crimson barred,
Before the daylight eooja away.
Long since they died. The wild vines grow
Over their hearts that never heed —
And I, who loved them long ago,
Swore where they failed I would succeed.
Yet sombrely I grew aware,
When night’s swift blackness came to be,
Of strange fear poisoning the air,
Of dull and smouldering enmity!
Alone the hidden river breathed,
Down in the mangroves, sigh on sigh.
Like fever mist the darkness seethed,
And shapeless wings went flitting by.
No light there seemed in all the world.
Only my camp-fire’s wraith of red
Where not one flickering flame but curled
Back from the shadows’ formless dread.
The watching forest crouched death-still,
A monster, bare of fang and claw—
Incarnate and malignant Will;
Thrall only to destruction’s law;
The white tent glimmered phantom-wise
’Twixt the dim firelight and the dark.
Deep in my heart I felt arise
A dream-like horror, icy stark.
Oh, it was lonely, lonely .there,
Hard by the graves of men long dead —
Too far from God for even prayer—
Night’s eyeless vampire overhead!
The myriad fear that ringed my soul
Unshapen, past all vision’s ken,
Seemed part of some half-sentient whole,
A soulless thing, and alien.
I sent my heart’s last voiceless cry
To those lost wanderers my peers,
Lest as they died I too should die,
Slain by the forest’s phantom fears.
And then it was I heard them—thrall,
Mid horror’s fierce and phantom throng,
To that far music, holding all
Dawn’s mystery in one magic song.
At times a bird’s song ’twas that rang
Flute-wise, half gay, half wistfully;
At times it seemed an angel sang,
Heir to the morning and the sea.
More strange it was than any dream!
I, only, there drew human breath —
What was it, hymning morning’s gleam,
That salved my soul from more than death?
Mocking the forest’s broken spell
By hidden graves I hearkened long;
No ghosts were these, I sensed full well,
Nor phantom ’twas, nor mortal song!
Dawn came and touched the world with red;
Far off I heard the voices sigh :
“We are the dreams of these lost dead,
The singing dreams that could not die !”
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLWAY.
Hides.
AFTER we had filed from the dingy
court into the bare and cold jury-room,
with its grey prison furniture, it was
only a few moments before the eleven jurors
had tacitly decided to call the thin septua-
genarian “Dad.” We took our seats at the
table—all except Dad; he sat against the
wall. For myself, I was sure I had met him
somewhere before.
“I don’t give a damn what anybody says,
the cow’s guilty!” said a fellow who told us
he was a greengrocer.
“Anybody’d think they was your ’ides,”
said a red-haired youth.
“There’s nothing wrong with the pleece
case that I can see,” said another impetuous
deliberator. “Stickin’ out a mile.”
Then a pompous local builder of jerry-
houses put on the judicial air of a man with
aspirations to Council honors and adven-
tured : “I didn’t quite like the way the
accused rubbed his hand up and down the
rail of the dock when he was asking his
questions.”
“He was nervous; it was nervousness.
Wouldn’t you be nervous?” said our most
timid member.
“Not if I was innocent.” Then, after
slowly weighing and valuing the point, he
added, “It wasn’t the proper sort of nervous-
ness ; didn’t seem to me to fit the case.”
“Oh, that be damned fer a yarn?” said
the timid one warmly. “What do you know
about nervousness?”
“I don’t give a damn what anybody says;
the cow’s guilty,” said the greengrocer with
a challenging glare at Rufus.
Then a voice piped up from somewhere in
the backbloeks: “What expenses do we get,
and where do we apply?”
“That’s not the question,” said the builder,
“The question is”
“But I’m losing a whole day, and I might
do me job.”
“They
can’t saek yer fer servin’ on the
jury,” said somebody.
“They might sack me fer stoppin’ away,
though.”
“No honorable employer” began the
builder.
But I wasn’t listening. I looked at Dad
as he sat huddled against the wall, with
one thin, moleskin-covered leg closely clasped
over the other and a knotty forefinger hooked
over the stem of the well-bitten pipe he
puffed at ruminatively. Where had I seen
him before?
t4t) ou see, it’s this way,” said the foreman.
Flam as daylight, Morgan’s truck pulls up
outside their bulk store and the driver goes
in. Up comes this ’ere accused bloke, stops
’is Lizzie on the other side of the street,
grabs a bundle of the ’ides from Morgan’s
truck, ’eaves ’em over on to ’is own lorry
and orf.”
“Seems all right,” mumbled a fellow that
needed a shave badly.
“What was the value of the ’ides?” asked
the nervous chap.
“The value is of no consequence,” said the
builder. He seemed rather proud of that
delivery.
Then I remembered where I had come
across Dad. I am afraid that, so far, I
had given very little attention to the delibera-
tions of my companions. It seemed much
more important that I should search my
past for evidence of Dad, and now I had it.
Five years ago he got a temporary, very
temporary, job in our packing-room. He
lasted half a day, but a remark he made
had become immortal.
“I don’t care what anybody says”—began
the greengrocer once more.
“Aw, fer Gawd’s sake stick on another
record,” said the red-haired one. The green-
grocer glared and subsided.
I resented «the fact that these discussions
about the guilt or innocence of the accused
would persist in interfering with my recol-
lections of Dad. For that half-day he had
been a real joke. Though his work was
all right when it was finished, he was so
absurdly slow that he had to be spoken to.
Hanes, our kindly but somewhat over-efficient
foreman, told him quietly that, although he
had a very nice touch, he could do with a
little bit of hurry-up in his composition. Dad
lifted his slow eyelids at Hanes with some-
thing deeper than scorn.
“Young man, : he said.
At that moment a juryman, with a sidling
glance toward Dad, remarked: “I don’t know
that smoking is allowed here. Is it?” he
appealed to the foreman.
Dad lifted again the slow eyelids from the
infuriated eyes. He didn’t unhook his finger
xrom his pipe or take his elbow off his knee.
He just looked at the juryman as he had
looked at Hanes and said nothing. It was
an effective rebuke, however, for the jury-
men returned to their labored wrangle about
the speed of the decamping car.
“But there wasn’t any speed when the
theft occurred. They were both standing.”
“How could the accused have got away
with the ’ides if ’e kept ’is car standing?
wisely put in the chap who was disquieted
about his expenses. No one took much
interest in what was said, and, when they
consented to listen, disagreed with what they
heard.
Dad’s slow-lifting eyebrows had tethered
my memory to the historic point.
“Young man,” he said to Hanes, “I never
was noted fer me speed; but if yer want a
greyhound yer better get somebody
else.” He took his coat and felt slowly for
his pipe; then he swung the garment over
his bony shoulders. From the door he
shouted, “Yer owe me ’alf a day’s pay, but
yer better keep it ter buy dog’s-meat fer
the greyhounds.” He surveyed the staff with
a critical eye, and added, “They can do
with a bit!”
The store chaps had never forgotten that.
They would be very surprised when I told
them I had come across Dad again.
The jury was slowly haggling its way
through the evidence of the four witnesses.
There was no sense in hurry. We learned
from one of our number who had been there
before that we would be put on to another
case if this one was decided too early.
To keep up a pretence of interest I put
in a remark now and again, and our joint
wisdom had gradually flowed into the deci-
sion that the evidence was conclusive, that
ail the witnesses supported one another and
that the accused was undoubtedly guilty.
We also felt that we had wasted enough
time and we hadn’t heard the cricket scores
for over an hour and a half.
The foreman got up and went toward the
door.
“ ’Alf a mo‘,” said a wag. “We ’aven’t
’card wot the sheik’s got ter say.” We all
looked in Dad’s direction and the foreman
paused.
“Wliat’s your ideas. Dad?” he asked.
Dad lifted his slow eyelids again and sized
us all up. He took his pipe from between
his blackened teeth and with the stem he
poked at the discolored hair around his
mouth. He began wearily to unfold his
bony figure.
“Well,” he said, “I can’t say as I’ve bin
thinkin’ much about it at all; ’ardly at all.
As you blokes says, the fellow might be
guilty”
“No ‘might’ about it,” said the foreman,
“we’re sure.”
Dad’s acceptance of this fact was very
casual, considering that all our wisdom was
locked up in it.
“Oh, well,” he retorted, “that’s all right
then; what do yer want ter ask me for ?”
He began to fold himself up again.
“What’s your opinion? You’ve got a right
to say what you think.”
“Oh, thanks,” said Dad in a tone that con-
tained little enough gratitude. “But there’s
one point I’d like to know about.”
“What’s that?” The foreman encouraged
him.
“Well,” Dad went on slowly “I’d like
ter know what was the weight of them
’ides!”
Nobody had thought of that. Dad knocked
us. I was beginning to suspect that he
would.
The foreman rapped on the door, but for a
different reason now.
The orderly’s key rattled noisily in the
lock and we all filed out into the dingy court
with its frowsy officials and the clock I was
sick of looking at. From the back couple
of rows the corpse-like faces of the public
turned to us as one corpse.
“Your Honor,” said the foreman, “we’d
like the constable to tell us the weight of
the bundle of hides that accused is charged
with stealing.”
With a clumsy clatter of heavy boots that
sounded- like a colt being entrained, the
nervous young constable stumbled up the
steps of the w T itness-box.
“Five hundredweight, two quarters, four
pounds,” he said clearly and courageously.
He seemed delighted that we had wished to
hear his voice again.
(Continued on next page.)


Who would be a Wife?
“Ten past seven, rather late to-day—First thing, the glass of
ENO—parade the children for theirs, they love it—start the
breakfast going—get kiddies ready for school —another
button off Johnnie’s coat —Hubby says he’ll be late—They’re
all packed off —Now for the business of the day —and
looking forward to it! ”
This feeling of well-being can
always be maintained by fol-
lowing the pleasant, health-
giving practice o f taking
ENO’s “Fruit Salt” first thing
every morning. ENO will at
all times, and in every climate
help maintain the perfect
functional activity of the
bodily organs. Being free
from sugar, flavouring mat-
ter, and purgative mineral
salts, its regular use has no
drawbacks. In fadt, EN O
assists Nature without
supplanting her methods
and can always be safely
taken by both young or old.
frepared only by
J. C. ENO, Limited,
London, England.
Soles Agents: The British
Harold F. Ritchie &. Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
t
♦ ♦
♦♦
IN
TWO SIZES'
AT CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
frME WORDS "FRUIT SALTPAN D ENO ARE REOiSTERED TRADE MARKBL
.
yjc^
’rm
~\
A
■
L*m
mxy
MmM
J-SwSSSPsi
1
M
n
£s=a*J
SJ:
K
The Last Ounce . . .
No matter how lively the game AERTEX will keep
you cool and in condition even on sweltering days.
The AERTEX Cellular principle of fabric construc-
tion ensures the free circulation of air at an even
temperature next the skin, and thus affords the finest
insulation the body can have against extremes of
heat and cold.
Wear AERTEX and get the last ounce of enjoyment
from your outdoor activities.
AERTEX
Obtainable from all Hosiers, Outfitters and Drapers: or in case of
difficulty apply to
The CELLULAR CLOTHING Co. Ltd., 313 Flinders
Lane, MELBOURNE, Victoria, Australia.
who supply Wholesale Trade only.
A. 73
t®§
vtPWDOy
We filed back into the room, all looking
very sheepish. We were silent for awhile.
Dad folded himself into his chair again;
there was no hurry. We could hear him
softly puffing at his pipe.
The greengrocer recanted loudly and com-
pletely uttering the obvious : “Ridikkerlous !
Man couldn’t lift it.” The fool was rubbing
our noses in our shame like housewives do
kittens.
The foreman knocked again. More rattle
of keys; more corpse-like faces. I was get-
ting tired of this filing in and out.
“Not guilty!” he replied to the Judge’s
formal question.
It had been a near go. In a futile way I
was arranging in my mind a chance for the
accused to shake hands with Dad.
FURNLEY MAURICE.
Three Islands.
SIBI sits like a dull, green cloud upon
the sea. Mostly dense mangroves, it
yet sports little open groves where
sunlight plays upon grass. With a smile
at his heart, the wanderer greets the friendly
warmth of an exiled gum.
Feathering above the mangrove tops are
the palms of Sibi. Almost to the water's
edge, they run along a narrow embankment
between the sea and a great swamp. In
the wet season this swamp is a babel of
ducks and waterfowl. Big brown cranes in
battalions parade its shores. It is a tree-
girt expanse of brown earth during “the
dry.” The anchorage, where so seldom a
vessel anchors, is shallow w T ith half a mile
of blue mud at low tide.
The village is many brown houses nest-
ling under the palms. The people are nearer
black than brown, the men with splendid
hair, countless minute curls; the women
well built, who will give you a laugh for a
smile.
A tiny wood-and-iron building houses the
schoolmaster, the only white man on the
island, and complete overlord. He “holds
court,” and sways the destiny of Dauan and
Boigu as well. He is “Gubinmint” —dread
word. Though he is a complete autocrat and
rules with a rod often tipped with iron, still
he himself is. often oppressed by the sterner
taskmaster of mental worries. For he is
responsible for the health of all the villages
and their well-being in every respect. He
must keep in order the “bad men” of each
community, and when a maiden takes the
wrong turning his is the delicate task of
apportioning the blame. And the maiden
mostly giggles, and wonders at the code of
the white man. For these people’s thoughts
are quite unlike our thoughts, and it takes
a broadminded man and years of experience
to get a glimmering of their mental pro-
cesses.
In the centre of the village is a tiny
church. Its services are always packed. A
Murray Islander is the deacon, in the absence
of the wandering missionary. The islanders
have taken to the Christian religion quite
seriously and like it, and there is no doubt
at all that the broadminded policy of the
mission people in Torres Strait waters has
been all for the benefit of the native.
Aw r ay at the back of the island, in little
hollows among the sand dunes, are the
gardens, each man heir to his little plot of
land. Banana patches, sweet-potato gardens,
yams and manioc are all well attended to,
for the islander from times immemorial has
been an agriculturist as well as a fisherman.
His greatest energies, however, were afore-
time spent in head-hunting and in preserv-
ing his own heads. Since the missionary
came and with him “Gubinmint,” life has
become quite a tame affair.
Almost within stone-throw across the
water a mountain crown rises aggressively
out of the sea. This mass of huge grey rocks,
so closely packed that the stumpy trees
struggle desperately for a foothold in between,
is Dauan. That scarred peak whispers a
message as it gazes contemptuously over low-
lying Sibi and Boigu and the flat New
Guinea coast. It has lasted from the birth
of things. Perhaps it knew Atlantis. Its
base is of the mother rock, while the flat
specks within sight are merely mud and
coral and sand pushed up by the sea—the
sea that can build up, and yet has sucked
down the land of which Dauan was the
tallest mountain.
Dauan’s beach is so tiny that it reminds
me of Gallipoli. But the sea has strewn
sand upon the fallen rocks; so that when
man came, a partly-black and a partly-brown
man, he planted himself a cocoanut-tree, and
built himself a house, and lived and loved
and fought and died, until now there stands
the little village glistening in the sun, and
the strip of palms crowding the tiny beach.
Yet one cannot but feel apprehensive, for
the village lies in the shadow of the boulders ;
and should they slip, then Dauan and its
palms would bounce in fragments into the
sea.
Dauan is a small village compared with
Sibi. A native teacher schools its youngsters
and reads the services in the prettiest little
church in the Strait. A serious-minded
“policeman,” impressive in cap and crimson
lava-lava, lords it over the village in the
interests of “Gubinmint.” The “Council-
lors,” several shrewd-looking old chaps, form
a Parliament, and, headed by the teacher
and policeman, rule the island in the absence
of the overlord from Sibi. They have a tiny
courthouse here, with a red roof and a
Union Jack, and the inside carved and
painted by natives. Very solemn days are
witnessed here, and the “crimes” and dis-
putes the visiting white lord has to settle
would puzzle the judgment of a greater than
Solomon.
The men of Dauan, like those of Sibi and
Boigu, are lithe, strong fellows, and the
women very strong. Both sexes are excellent
seamen. It is a great sight to see in full
sail the canoes of these three islands. Trees
fifty feet in length, beautifully hollowed out,
the gunwales planked up an extra two feet.
The vessels carved and painted each with
its figurehead and proud native name. A
long outrigger on each side, platformed over
amidships. The two masts, strongly held
with stays and struts from the outriggers.
The sails that catch every breath of wind.
The platform above the bobbing waves
crowded with men and women and children;
and the long, palm-rigged boxes overflowing
with bananas and yams and fish and manioc.
Those big canoes can sail around any 'white-
man lugger.” . . ~
Each island owns a lugger, and works the
seas during the trochus-shell season, occa-
sionally varying the voyages with a catch
of pearl-shell. The Queensland Protector
of Aborigines is supervisor of the fleet which
the Torres Strait islanders are fast building
up. The venture has been a fmanciaj
success, though there are some . matters
which need adjusting before the islanders
are quite satisfied.
Thirty-odd miles’ sail along the New
Guinea coast, and near the Dutch border,
you come to Boigu. Sailing this water,
dirty from the sediment of New Guinea
rivers, one is never certain whether he is
in New Guinea waters or Queensland. It
is so hard to see an imaginary line upon
water.
Boigu is really a group of flat islands,
dense with extraordinarily large mangroves.
Boigu only is inhabited. It is prettily en-
closed by the islands of Aw-buoos, My-ee and
Iver-pai. A stranger would find it very
hard to find Boigu. Which was a blessing
in the hectic head-liunting days. Around an
island bend, where feathery palms top the
mangroves, and the village, very pretty, lies
in sight. With good navigation a lugger can
anchor opposite without hitting reef or mud-
bank.
This village also has its wee church and
courthouse. The houses, of palm matting,
are built upon tall blocks. Not so many
years back they were built very tall indeed,
some of them high up in the trees. A tall
stockade completely encircled the village.
At the throbbing burst of the dreaded alli-
gator-jawed drums the villagers rushed the
laddered tree-houses, for the Tugeri were
upon them. Across on the coast is the gloomy
mouth of one of the Kussa rivers, down
which even now the Tugeri head-hunters
from away up in Dutch New Guinea occa-
sionally raid the lowlands.
Boigu village is very cool and clean, and
grows odd beautiful trees apart from its
palms. One in particular takes the eye, and
its rugged, sombre beauty somehow seems
grim even before one knows its history. It
has a great butt, covered with knobs. It
grows two huge limbs, trees in themselves,
and many broad green leaves. It is Sibui
Pui, the Tree of Skulls. Under this tree the
Boigu warriors enacted the Misi ceremonies
before and after each of their own head-
hunting expeditions. The tree for centuries
has been adorned with the skulls of their
victims.
The men are good arrow shots and most
of their bows, strangely enough, have been
traded from the Tugeri. Proudly they point
to the bowline with the characteristic Tugeri
knot.
Yesterday the Boiguites explained to me
the reason why their new bows are only five
feet long. In the “old days” (a few years
back) the Tugeri bow was nine feet long.
But the headhunters found this a nuisance
when squirming through the jungle, ana
recently they have made their bows shorter.
I wonder how many centuries Nature worked
on their grey matter to teach them that
obvious point.
Of all the Torres Islanders, and despite
their past life of continual fear, the men
and women of Boigu are the merriest of
all. They will laugh joyfully at the flicker
of an eyelash. Any childish game they will
enter i.nto with a vim that makes the white
man think doubtfully of the joys of civili-
sation. And as for those brown-eyed girls—
well, I who have travelled the world make
confession that never have I been so teased
by such accomplished flirts. Yet, though
a proportion of the Boiguites are nearly
white, they are not half-castes. It is just
one of the puzzles of these people.
ION L. IDRIESS.
Lee Wo Bin.
A dealer in drugs was Lee Wo Bin,
Down in Chinatown.
He kept strange jars on teak-wood beams,
Pots of herbs where perfume steams,
And the dope to fill the pipe of dreams,
Down in Chinatown.
Now old and rich was Dee Wo Bin,
Down in Chinatown.
But of all his dainty merchandise
His fair young wife was his dearest prize,
With her jade-smooth skin and sloe-black
eyes,
Down in Chinatown.
A jealous man was Lee Wo Bin,
Down in Chinatown.
Sometimes to his house there came along
With his mandolin the singer Wong,
Who played to his wife some old love song,
Down in Chinatown.
An opium dreamer was Lee Wo Bin,
Down in Chinatown.
As he lay one night on his silken rug,
His wife, with a smile and a little shrug,
Left him drowsed with liis own dear drug,
Down in Chinatown.
A wily man was Lee Wo Bin,
Down in Chinatown.
He woke from his trance, and found no wife.
But he knew the lottery of life,
And tenderly sharpened a queer old knife,
Down in Chinatown.
Men mutter curses on Lee Wo Bin,
Down in Chinatown.
Fireworks flare, and a motley throng
Offer flowers and prayers in the ' Shanghai
Tong
For the soul of the gay young singer Wong,
Down in Chinatown.
But they find no trace of Lee Wo Bin,
Down in Chinatown.
In a shadowy shop, beneath his Djin,
He’s smoking a pips in old Nankin...,
They search in vain for Lee Wo Bin,
Down in Chinatown.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS ESSON.


\ '
WESTIN G HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker- Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—-wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE GO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES « CHCKCH. Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Feattaerston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Oflice—“Chancery House/’ 485 Bourlte Street>
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH &
Ailalatil* ft A.
r
ŕ
HAY'D'VAC
The Mark of Superior Quality
HERE'S an electric torch that's
a dandy—dark nooks and
corners hold no secrets from you —
safety at night is always assured —
it's theßay-O-Lite, the best you can
buy. Strong vulcanized fibre case,
corrugated for easy grip heavy
brass trimmings, nickel plated
and polished—-patented lock
switch, cushioned to
prevent lamp break-
age,^ — these and
other advantages
are the
reasons
why you
should use a
Ray-O-Liie.
Equipped with Ray-
O-Vac Batteries, you have a
dependable source of light worth
its cost the first few nights you use it.
JFrite our distributor for the name of
your nearest dealer .
French Battery Company
MADISON, WISCONSIN. U. S. A.
i Distributor:
UNITED DISTRIBUTORS, Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane, Australia,
Wellington, New Zealand.
T-PLUM
&
R
a
si
£n
as
c
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle . . . . 21/- „
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Bay PJLUM Razor Sets:—
Black 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths; fin. and fin.
Post-paid Prices
PLUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 16/6
each. Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST SYDNEY
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
Prom Fort Macquarie at 10.15 ami. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
lares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
.Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERT SUNDAY No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Telß.: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
or
0
Sick Headache
biliousness
ndiqestion
Torpid Liver
TAKE
Is the curse
Of civilization
Headaches, Dullness
Bad taste, no appetite
Skin blemishes
Have their source
In neglected condition
Of bowels
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Relieve constipation
Remove skin blemishes
Cleanse the blood
ŗ
Worth
Guinea
Bov
a
Sold la
Boxes
11- & 2/6.
r
fl
=Q :
-•=^1
&=
q&r
5=<Jl
R
&
m
SlFcatt/
• sssm
*m.
wrfcaw
5SSS?»£»S3Ea
RBS
“Vs
“RING LOCK/’ THE LOCK THAT WILL NOT SHIFT.
This Fence is made from the finest open hearth galvanised steel, in our own Factory
by Australian Workmen, and is now available for the first time to the Australian Farmer.
The Fence throughout (both Laterals and Droppers) is heavy 10-gauge, thus producing
a stiff stay fence, requiring less posts than usual.
Made for the present in two styles only.
No. 1 An ideal sheep fence, five lines spaced, 5in., Bin., 7in., and 8in. apart, 26ln.
high. Droppers spaced 12in. apart.
PRICE:—In 5-chain Rolls, 6/9 per Chain, or £23/10/ per mile.
No 2 A fine sheep or cattle fence, six lines spaced 5in., Bin., lin., 8in., and lOin.
apart, 36in. high. Droppers spaced 12ln. apart.
PRICE:—In 5-chain Rolls, 8/3 per chain, or £29/10/ per mile.
SEND FOR FULLY ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE. POST FREE.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS,
D. & W. CHANDLER LTD.
276 to 294 Brunswick St., FITZROY. ’Phone J4I45.
And at
234 to 236 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE. ’Phone F4I7S.
ESTABLISHED 1876.
o°'
AO 0
...
s®
e
>V t ° ..*• C*Vl»S^
•*’ ..••*
* fl# 4.


Estab
742
7
Purity & Age
SCOTCH WHISKY
$
m I
r'■ 9 • >
White Horse Whisky is real old
Scotch of unvarying high quality
and fully matured—with a flavor
that proves irresistible. Age and
strength always guaranteed,
backed up by the millions and
millions of gallons always
maturing in bond.
Now obtainable in new screw-cap bottles
No corkscrew required!
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS, LTD.,
Glasgow.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD.
Agents.
ORSEC
MSE
wY&cum
S~= ==s
oo
LL
PU
IvaP-
THIS LABEL IS REGISTERED
BY
**i» ■» *OOO
TO HIS MAJESTY
THE KING
Tke Old Blend
_256 £B3O WKlSky
L o/ iKe
Lsttvb
742
CELLAR
from THE
Original Reci(K
tna.i are desirous to pa* s roT ”
DINBURGH to LONDON or a«>
her place on thetr road l* l ,
the WHITE HORSE C£U a *
BURGH at which place they may
n * STAGE COACH every MofDA
ay. which performs the whole )° i
(if God permits), and sets
the morning m
8 each passenger 14 pounds WCI »
6 pence per pound
| horse distillers ltd,
!tj|ler y Island of Islay and Glenlivet C' s
LA3GQW and LONDON g
OiSTiLLED IN SCOTLAND
ONE PINT 6 FLUID OU ncES
