

è
The Bulletin
SW&&
Vol. 49.—N0. 2532.
Wednesday, August 22, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


"THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
1928 is now ready, and will be for
warded with full particulars and terms on
nmmcation to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.*’
Always seize an opportunity at sight,
Never hesitate, afraid to take a chance
If you feel convinced that what you do is right
Without a moment’s waste of time, advance ’
Always crush an ill before it crushes ’you,
Be alert and your survival you’ll as>-,re;
A neglected cough or cold you’ll surely rue—
Take Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
Learn
Story Writing
THis BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
REJECTED BY THE EDITOR—WHY?
Have your manuscripts criticised by experts. Every
member of our staff is a highly-qualified specialist.
WRITE TO—
METROPOLITAN BUSINESS COLLEGE, LTD.,
338 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
r
BAOSHAWS .MS
VTUUA'f’k'h
ASTHMA 7 m
S ! POWDER 11 mg
ill M
mmmm
ASTHMA POWDER
(2/6 All Chemists)
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Free, 2/9, from The Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
é
Milk
made digestible.
Appetite is an important factor in
digestion. Benger’s makes fresh milk
appetising to everyone. Even those
who ordinarily do not like milk, relish
it as Benger’s Food.
For a change, Benger’s Food admits
of many easy variations in flavourings vanilla, chocolate,
coffee, etc. Benger’s is, at the same time, one of the most
inexpensive and valuable of foods. A cupful of
ê
Food
at night, just before retiring, is one of the best ways to
ensure sound, healthy sleep.
Benger's Food is sold bg Chemists and Stores everywhere.
Invalid Recipes in booklet,
post free from BENGER’S Food, Ltd., 350, George St., SYDNEY.
Sole Manufacturers: Benger’s Food, Ltd., Otter Works, Manchester, England.
A-363
GET THE NEWS OF ALL AUSTRALIA
FOR
Your Week-end Reading.
BUY THE NATIONAL WEEKLY WITH THE NATION’S NEWS.
In Current Events and Literature. In the Home and Social Life.
In Sport and Agriculture. In Picture and Story.
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at—
-113 Pitt Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
9 jV
°6
*5
86 YEARS
“ The Examiner” has been the trusted Friend of the Family
in Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in
Tasmania, and is still the Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
ixxaoHVH m a 'aw snos s Hdxoa 'a 'M
UIO }
Pty. Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
122 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.
MR. W. G. DOUGAN,
701 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
p
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives ;
NORMAN BAKER 4 LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY. England
w
No. 1369.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known, being destructive to all forms
of bacterial life. They keep the mouth in a sweet,
healthy condition.
Suited for Old and Young.
For the cure of Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza.
Unlike cough medicines, HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES do not interfere with the digestion ; on the
contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as their Anti-
septic Properties prevent abnormal fermentation of
the food, and thus they prove helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion and Dyspepsia if taken after food.
Sold Everywhere in Tins, Price 1/6.
■' tfi
mm
■mmm
m
A. The Larynx &
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
«< tto Lungs.
The Red Page
Impressions
[Mr, Maim was one of the judges in The Bulle-
tin's first Prize Novel Competition. He was the
nominee of the Australian Journalists’ Association.]
I have no taste for figures, but the state
of my eyes and a dull weight that is still
heavy upon my heart conspire to assure me
that, placed one after another, the words I
have read in the past few months would go
48 times round Papua and leave enough
over to strangle every heartless trier who
typed his Bulletin Prize entry in 10 dupli-
cates and sent in the blurred tenth. May
Heaven forgive them; I cannot. But even
their work must be included in a general
finding upon this mass of writing—the high
standard of the writing as a whole; the
lower standard of the craftsmanship. Judged
merely as so much writing, so much put-
ting together of words, the great majority
of the efforts I have read are satisfactory.
But of the other things which go to make
a novel there tends to be a dearth.
Perhaps the word that must be used most
in criticising them is “immature.” At least
80 out of every 100 of these writers—maybe
more—are clearly novices. They reveal it
in various ways. Take one: How many
good novels written to-day—and it must
be remembered that the art of fiction is
advancing perhaps as no other is—has that
old-fashioned inessential, a prologue? Not
more than half these competitors have re-
pulsed the temptation to write one. A
foreword, a preface, a prologue, a synopsis
—it turns up again arid again, insisting on
being read, and not more often than once
or twice is it anything but vapor or, worse
still, cloudy water. It provides a clear
picture only of the poor writer in the toils.
“Look at me!” cries the poor writer. “I
have a story to tell, and I don’t know how
to get going.” Nor is that the only way
in which the writer’s inability to get going
is revealed. Many, very many, including
one of the best, of these stories would have
been infinitely better if the writer, instead
of curtailing the curtailed cur in a hurried
ending, stripped off its muzzle and brought
its face sharply into view. It is here, at
the beginning, at the getting going, tha
most are weak, and that, I am quite sure
is nearly always proof of the novice.
That is one general impression—imma
turity. Another—much more remarkable, ”
think—is the absence of humor. Only
few, here and there, gave me anything a ;
which to smile; only three held matter fo
laughter, and only one had this to any
sustained extent. A curious fact, this
Humor is part of the fibre of the man mos
of us mean when we say an Australian
Meet him and talk with him: he may no
have that particular wit which the English
man looks for in his Punch, but no one
short of a Russian could fail to grasp that
humor is an outstanding part of his make
up. More, it is an important part of his
life; and are we to judge the novel as
criticism, a picture of life, or are we not?
If we are—and I do—then the novel-story
of to-day’s Australian that is without
humor is to that extent asking Posterity
and even Now, to frank it with an unde-
veloped photo on the passport. And, in
view of this paucity of the substance of
laughter, will the writer of one manuscript
forgive me for quoting what is no effort
of herself or himself, but of that occa-
sional humorist, the typewriter?—
She was one of those women, commonly callec
“old maids” and often facetiously referred to as
“unclaimed treasures,” who were meant by God
to enrich the world, but have been deprived, by
force of circumstances, of their tights.
Perhaps there is little in what I have said
here so far that will profit anybody very
much, for both the impressions I have
touched upon come from the writer’s being.
One of them—humor—is so much the
writer that I’m afraid its absence in the
writing proves absence. The
other, which has to do with craftsmanship,
construction, is in my opinion to be cor-
rected only by reading in the best of that
which the writer aspires to write. But
there is a strictly material side upon which
a word or two cannot but help. It would
surprise even a young mother to behold
m what elaborate swaddling clothes many
of these children of the brain— to give the
cur another form—came up The Bulletin
stairs. Typed on fine-art paper, bound
even m Russia how many pounds have
been spent on them! And think what
happens to a manuscript that is accepted
for publication. Off with its elaborate
jacket, and into the rubbish-heap with it.
Inked fingers on art paper. Desecration
there is no critic like a comp. He wants
the verities. Off with Life’s clothes, and
let us look at Life! He has no tears to
waste on swaddling—unless he is very
Scotch, and then it is something else which
makes them flow. In fact, he is hard-hearted
enough to laugh at swaddling, particularly
because lie knows that spaced typewriting
on the cheapest of white paper, bound into
chapters with inexpensive metal clips,
makes work easy. I should say to com-
petitors who are settling down to win the
second of these competitions: “Dress the
infant neatly but cheaply; and, if your
fortune (misfortune?) runs that way, spend
the balance on another sort of layette, even
if it be for the illegitimate child so many
of your men and women seem so intent
upon getting and having.”
CECIL MANN.
Drama in the Schools
Recent Red Page critics of our educ
tional system may find some consolation
the thought that conditions are not quite
bad as the syllabuses of the various Educ
tion Departments might suggest. This
particularly true of the secondary schoo
and is due in part to the latitude permittee
by enlightened inspectors, and in part to
deliberate white-anting of departmental re
quirements by teachers.
It is, of course, true that examination
m certain set work have still to be facer
and that classes preparing for these exim
mations must of necessity be crammed wii
this work. Thus in N. S. Wales candidate
tor the Intermediate or Leaving Certificate
still have their noses held to the Shak
spearean grindstone, and spend an entir
year “studying” one of the Bard’s work
(like vivisectionists on some unfortunal
flog), so that in due course they shall b
able to “explain fully and in detail” ( ;
the examiners put it) the meaning, lii
guistic peculiarities and aberrations, gram
matical monstrosities, historical and literar
allusions, and other equally vital details
some such explanation-defying passage as
Conceit is still derived
From some forefather grief ; mine is not so,
For nothing hath begot my something grief ;
Or something hath the nothing that I grieve.
Beside me is a copy of the edition o
Richard II.” supplied to schools in N. I
'Wales. The play itself covers 89 page
while 158 are required for the introduction
notes, appendix, glossary and other appai
atus without which “study” of the drama
deemed impossible. Is it any wonder tha
the study of Shakspeare has become a bug
bear to both teachers and pupils? I hav
read “The Merchant of Venice” with
class of first-year boys, aged about 12, anc
they fairly wallowed in it. I have “done
the same play with a class preparing fo
the Intermediate, and if that class loathec
the mauling as I did, Shakspeare must hav
wished that he had been apprenticed to hod
carrying.
Happily, however, non-examination,
classes are allowed a respite, and it i
in these classes that our boys and girls are
learning to appreciate the drama. Some 10
years ago that progressive teacher George
M'ackaness organised at Fort-street Higl
School the first Play Day to be held in
Australia. It was an instantaneous anc
magnificent success. It has been repeater
annually at that school, and the example
has been widely followed. Last year one
N.S.W. school presented a programme o
22 scenes, ranging from Miracle Plays
through Shakspeare and Marlowe, to Dick
ens and Conan Doyle; while this year’s
performance was witnessed by 1100 child-
ren, drawn from practically every schoo
in the district, and on the following
night by a large and appreciative audience
of adults.
Now what does this mean? In the first
place, these children are making the sur-
prising discovery that the drama (1) is not
Shakspeare; (2) is not merely a story tolc
in an unsatisfactory and very difficult way;
and (3) is not a lost art. Only those whe
have been through the examination grind
can understand how very surprising this
discovery must be.
Secondly,, they are gaining a real insight
nito dramatic technique. Many of the
“scenes” ; are their own dramatisations of
incidents in stories they have read ,* some,
indeed, are original plays of no little merit’
All are produced, under the general super-
vision of the teacher, by the boys them-
selves. During the processes of selection,
dramatisation and production all sorts of
questions crop up, which offer to the keen
teacher opportunities for practical and effec-
tive lessons.
Thirdly, the schools are becoming centres
for the dissemination of the drama. They
are doing in our country towns what the
repertory societies aro doing in the cities
—and they are doing it at least as effec-
tively.
In conclusion, a word of praise is due to
the publishers who have done so much to
make Play Days possible. About 1924
Harraps issued an experimental collection
of “One-Act Plays of To-day.” It, filled a
widely-felt want. The fourth collection is
now available, and special school editions
of the series have been published. For
secondary schools and amateur theatrical
societies they are ideal, save in one respect.
(Continued on page 5.)


“Truth in Advertising" ensures
the absolute accuracy of every statement made by
Anthony Horderns’
Values for Men.
7h
V
A
rt
SUITS
Ready-to-Wear
I 0 5!
Men’s Ready-to-Wear Sac Suits, expertly
cut and carefully finished. The materials used
are products of "World-famous Mills. Coat has
two buttons, no vent. Trousers possess side
and hip pockets. Cuff bottoms. Select from
All-Wool Tweed in Mid and Dark Shades of
Grey or Brown; also FANCY WORSTEDS
in Mid and Dark Grey Shades. Such “built-in
smartness and quality is rarely offered at such
a low price. Write for self-measurement form
and patterns, post free on request. Price 105 -
(Men’s Clothing—Ground Floor—Sent Carnage Paid.)
Cigarettes and Tobacco at Reduced Prices
CIGARETTES AT REDUCED PRICES
Pkts. 12. Pkts. 24. Boxes 50. Tins 50.
Capstan . . . • sd.
Capstan Ovals . . . . Tin
State Express No. 333
Army Club
Craven A. .
De Reszke
Grey’s No. 2
Gold Flake
Kozak, Russian Blend
Turf, Jubilee
lOd.
of 23,
1/3.
1/11
Tin of
Pkts. of
2/-
50, 2/6
15, lOd.
Pkts.
100.
6/3
6/3
6/3
6/3
6/3
6/3
Pkts.
100.
6/3
IMPORTED CUT TOBACCO REDUCED
Imported Cut Tobacco, Edgeworth
Ready Rubbed and Plug Slice. .
Lambert and Butler’s Waverley
Mixture . .
2oz. 4oz. lib.
1/7 3/2
1/9 3/6
12/6
13/9
CUT TOBACCO AT
1 OZ.
Bd.
Bd.
Capstan Mild, Med. and Full
Champion Bright and Fine Cut
Champion Dark
Champion De Luxe Mixture . . . .
Havelock Bright and Fine Cut . .
Havelock Dark “
Havelock Special Mixture . . . .
Log Cabin Medium and Full . .
Lucy Hinton
Main Top, Medium and Fine Cut
Temple Bar
Vice-Regal Mixture Bd.
Victory Long Cut and Bars . . . •
Anthony Horderns’ Famous
Triumph Brand—
Medium
Dark • • • •
Tobacco Department—Ground Floor. Carriage
not paid on Tobacco or Cigarettes unless ordered
until other goods on which carriage is paid.
Use Our “D.P.S.”
You can purchase all your require-
ments on this convenient system.
Simply leave a small deposit, paying the balance in instalments to
suit yourself. There is no extra charge. You pay only the Cash Price.
’Phone M 2401
any hour day and night, and leave your
order. This convenient service is for
your use. Trunk calls are half rates between 7 p.m. and 8 a.m.
This convenient service is for your use —take advantage of it.
WRITE FOR OUR NEW GENERAL MAIL-ORDER CATALOGUE.
Anthony Horderns
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O .


STUDEBARE [VS
NEW
PRESIDENT
Straight Sight
80 miles per hour—loo horse-power
Striking body lines which flow in uninter-
rupted beauty from radiator to back, rich
appointments and complete equipment,
make the President the most arrestingly
handsome car which ever skimmed the roads.
Your first ride in The President Straight
Eight will be a revelation —131-inch wheel-
base, plus hydraulic shock absorbers; springs
five feet long in rear over a yard long in
front; and deep form-fitting cushions ensure
greater riding ease. You can drive this car
40 miles an hour the day you buy it, while a new
magazine high-pressure lubricating system
Erskine Models from £315 to £448
Director Models from £4lB to £568
necessitates a change of oil and grease only
once every 2,500 miles—after the first 1000 mi es.
Its 100 horse-power engine gives you brilli-
ant 8-cylinder performance, instantaneous
acceleration and permits speeds of 80 miles
an hour. A low balanced steel body, self-
centring steering of perfected design and
amplified-action four-wheel braking ensure
utmost safety.
Test the irresistible energy of this great car
its stout defiance of steep hills and gruel-
ling roads! Indisputably the Eight of
1928 —an unapproached value at its price,
from £698 to £B6O F.O.R. SYDNEY.
Commander Models from £528 to £628
President Models from £698 to £B6O
All new models equipped with shock absorbers, bumper bars and four-wheel brakes,
PRICES F.O.R. SYDNEY.
»
C'.
w »'.v
f/tfk
is
%
D
C 5
£
+n
rl
*S
>-
o
?.-vv
=-^><i>=
c
he
President” Straight
Eight
State
Sedan
o
fp' l >
£790
IB 90.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES.
The Studebafyer Corporation of Australasia Limited,
4-16 YURONG STREET (just behind the Museum), SYDNEY.
VICTORIA.
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd.,
41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.,
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important tovms.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Millingens, Limited,
42-48 Franklin Street. Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Adams, Ltd., 152-154 High Street,
Christchurch.
Studebaker holds all the highest Speed and Endurance Records for fully-equipped Stock Cars L
Australia and America,


500 Doz. !
THE WHOLE OF A
Manufacturer’s Stock
Buying on such a gigantic scale —only pos-
sible to such an organisation as David Jones’
means big cuts in prices. We could charge
a lot more for them and they’d still be good
value. We prefer a quick turnover instead.
ALL-WOOL
ENGLISH
HALF HOSE
Per
Pair
3/6
4/6 quality
All perfect goods, all in the most popular shades
of greys and fawns with neat figured and stripe
designs. Beautifully soft wool, no seams.
You’d readily pay 4/6 for them. We bought the
whole stock, and we’d buy double the quantity if
we could, but no more are available. Buy them
without delay, and you’ll get the widest choice.
DAVID JONES’
Market, Castlereagh & Elizabeth Streets, Sydney.
Branch Men’s Store, Opposite G.P.0., George St.
Xo Australian dramatist is represented m
the four volumes. Is there an Australian
publisher with courage enough to give this
country’s playwrights a big opportunity:
The schools are ready to do their bit.
MACGEE.
Wonder
Seven years ago I read with deep delight
William Beebe’s “Jungle Peace,” the story
of a naturalist on leave —an airman, half for-
getting the war among the smallest beings
of the tropics. Many naturalists, writing on
similar subjects, give the impression that
they cannot see the tree for its leaf, nor
the leaf for the parasitic life it holds. Few
have kept like Beebe the precious faculty
of Wonder so unspoiled. This is what made
“jungle Peace” unique. There was, for
instance, an account, of the capture of a
tiny lizard, who, when conquered, cour-
teously surrendered his sword (the fly which
he had just caught but not yet swallowed),
and then expectantly looked for the return
courtesy, which needs to be read in the nar-
rator’s own words.
Edge oj the Jungle, which may be
termed a sequel, has recently appeared, and
has much of the same magic. Any plain
tale told by an expert must have interest;
Beebe’s pages have also charm, quaintness,
sometimes beauty, and always that Wonder.
His “microscopic eye” has not blinded him
to the sense of background, forest, universe:
man’s place, and the toad’s place, in the
unguessable Scheme of Things.
And he takes us with him. One forgets
one is reading, and, sitting watching by a
little clay-milky rainpool, feels all the ex-
citement of suspense that works to a
silent and tremendous climax:—
When the surface caught a glint of light and
reflected it, only the clay and mud walls about
came to the eye. It was a very regular pool, a man’s
height in diameter, and, for all I knew, from two
inches to two miles deep. I became absorbed in
a sort of subaquatic mirage, in which I seemed to
distinguish reflections beneath the surface. My eyes
refocused With a jerk, and I realised that something
had unconsciously been perceived by my rods and
cones, and short-circuited to my duller brain. Where
a moment before was an unbroken translucent surface
were now 13 strange beings who had appeared from
the depths, and were mumbling oxygen with trembling
lips.
In days to come, through all the months, I should
again and again be surmised and cheated and
puzzled—all phases of delight in the beings who
share the earth’s life with me. This was one of the
first of the year, and 1 stiffened into one large eye.
It is no anti-climax to learn that the strange
beings are tadpoles. The mystery, the
beauty, the sheer miracle of their history
is captured and imparted. Studying the
gorgeous colors of their swift development,
the reader’s mind flies with the writer’s,
around the world and back again, to “the
guardian of the fate of tadpoles—surely
some quaint little god-relation of Neptune,
Pan and St. Vitus,” or to the fascinations of
such an expression as “positively thigmo-
tactic”; around the world again on tenuous
wings of association, and back to the frog’s
full estate—all with the absorption of a
child in a new fairy-tale__. _
“Edge of the Jungle” is one of those
exasperating books which tempt one to
quote from almost every page, to pass on
and share the little thrill of satisfaction
that greets now an astounding fact, now a
soul-satisfying simile, and now' an unex-
pected twist of reflection.
These essays, dealing with a little comer
of Guiana, make me jealous for the neglec-
ted denizens of our own country. Of
course we have already those w 7 ho study
the curious and those who sing the beauti-
ful. But there has yet to arise one who
will lead us along the golden way that lies
between the Scylla of pedantic dryness and
the Charybdis of sentimental inaccuracy.
It is not our own fault that the great mass
of us barely know the names —-when we
know that much—of our own native plants
and wild creatures.
As I write, I can hear an owl in the tea-
tree by the house uttering its soft, half-
human words, and farther off the cough of
a questing fox. Every little shrub sustains
a horde of life; till the beach is reached,
with its teeming rock pools, and rich line
of high-water wrack. Inland are the hills,
with lyrebird, koala, platypus; beyond
them the unnoted vast continent all
waiting.
Meanwhile, I wish Mr. Beebe would
spend his next holiday in Australia.
ELSIE COLE.
A Royal Iconoclast
Queen Victoria was a lady who, though
dogmatic and domineering, was yet distin-
guished by forthrightness and honesty.
A certain Rev. W. W. Tulloch, son
of the famous Principal Tulloch, once
wrote “Lives of Queen Victoria and Prince
Albert” for the benefit of Britain’s young
people who might need edifying lessons.
Desiring to be absolutely correct in the
matter of tales and anecdotes concerning
her Majesty, he requested that the Queen
would graciously verify the same as given
in his proofs, and the Royal assent was
accorded. The result was truly a stag-
gerer. Most of those ornamental and touch-
ing anecdotes which for years had been
pumped wholesale into the minds of loyal
Britishers and accepted as gospel were
either scratched out as unauthentic, stig-
matised in the Royal red ink as “untrue”
or so amended that the lovely sentiment
and morals involved therein disappeared
like the baseless fabric of a dream.
Perhaps the most picturesque and widely-
credited story concerning Victoria was the
one wherein the Queen, in answer to a
query from an “African chief,” replied,
placing her hand on a convenient Bible,
“This is the secret of England’s great-
ness!” Her Majesty’s secretary, in reply to
an inquiry from a great propagandist body,
informed the public that the story was
wholly without foundation. Mr. Tulloch
missed that one.
An interesting paragraph in the Scottish
divine’s proof-sheets dealt with “several
narrow escapes from death” in Victorias
early career, a couple of them of a most
thrilling nature. But the queenly realist
would have none of these; she scored out
the whole chapter and wrote opposite the
“narrow escapes”: “Not one.” Miss Porter, the
novelist, told how she once observed the
little Princess Victoria so deeply absorbed
in listening to a Sunday sermon that even
a buzzing wasp failed to disturb her “rapt
attention.” “Untrue” wrote the queenly
pen in the margin. Another lovely story
which recounted how Victoria and her
mother paid a visit to the grave of the
heroine of that touching tale. “The Dairy-
man’s Daughter” was crushed for good by
this brief marginal comment: “A com-
plete myth.” Many of us have read of
the famous scene on the great proclama-
tion day, June 21, 1837. When the last
words of the proclamation had been read
by the Garter King at Arms there wa.s a
great outburst of loyalty; guns were fired in
the park and at the Tower, but the young
Princess sought relief for her pent-up emo-
tion in silent tears.” Sad to relate, hei
Majesty scored out also this beautiful
legend, and wrote beneath, in a firm hand,
“Quite untrue.” As far as can be judged
the Queen’s veracious pencil wiped out
about two-thirds of the tales which had
grown up round her name and left the Rev.
Tulloch’s book sadly shorn.
It, is, indeed, melancholy to have to say
that of several notable poems written con-
cerning Victoria (that by Mrs. Browning in
particular) only one was based on fact, the
others having been built around popular
fictions. It was the old lady herself who
pricked the bubbles. Let the record stand
to her credit.
P. AIREY.
A Satchel of Books
Time Importuned, by Sylvia Townsend
Warner (Chatto and Windus: Dymock s) .
None but a very carping critic could fail
to see merit in Miss Warner’s prose. The
trouble is that it is not as prose that the
critic is here asked to consider her writing.
Miss Warner puts this lot forward as
poetry.
The Bunyan Country, by Charles G. Har-
per (Cecil Palmer). Mr. Harper is the most
entertaining of modern English antiquaries,
and this stout volume is a lit companion for
his “Mr. Pickwick’s Second Time on Earth.
Here however, he has a real person to deal
with,’ so the identification of scenes is made
to fit in with a Bunyan biography. The
Slough of Despond, for instance, he met on
the Holyliead-road, north of Dunstable ;
and Mr. Harper tells us what it was in
Bunyan’s day and what lias become of it
since the engineers have shown that the old
tinker was wrong when he described it as
“such a place as cannot be mended.” As for
the Delectable Mountains, though other sites
have been suggested, they are almost cer-
tainly the Chiltern Hills; and it is intei-
eating to note that at the place John knew
them best —probably near Kinsworth—they
mount no higher than 810 ft. So Mr. Harper
goes through the whole pilgrimage, recon-
structing the people and the scenes as the
quaint old preacher knew them.
The Aye of the Gods, by Christopher
Dawson (Murray). “A brief survey,” the
learned author over-modestly calls it, ot
the whole problem of the origins of our civil-
isation,” and that carries us back into the
mistiest past, about which very much is
still conjecture. The student alike of arch*
ology and ethnology will find it an invalu-
able summary, written with the student s
profound regard for the opinions of others
who have come to different conclusions.
Thus, dealing with the origins of totemism,
the author is not only unable to agree that
Australia saw the birth of the system, but.
believes Professor Elliot Smith is wrong in
concluding that it derives from the historic
Egyptians. “Totemism in Egypt,” he thinks,
“bears all the marks of a survival from a far
earlier type of culture. It belongs essen-
tially not to the archaic kingdom with its
mastery of agriculture and irrigation, but
to the hunting tribe, the society that lives in
complete dependence on the life of untamed
Nature”; and its persistence among the
aborigines of Australia gives point to that
contention. Altogether a fascinating book.
Clara Butt, Her Life Story, by Winifred
Ponder (Harrap). This is the book in which
it is said that, when Melba heard that her
young friend was going to Australia, she
counselled her to “sing ’em muck. It’s all
they can understand.” Dame Nellie vehem-
ently denies it; and, in any case, it is a
mystery how the unfortunate phrase got in.
For it is not that sort of book at all. All
through the two are represented as the best
of friends and Butt as the most generous of
women. At Calgary (Canada), Butt found
herself billed for the same night as Melba.
“I knew we should be all right,” she said
afterwards; “I knew we should get Dame
Nellie’s overflow.” And when Butt sang in
Melbourne, Melba, who was present, sent up
a note scrawled on the back of an envelope:
“Sing something Scotch for my daddy.” But
if Melba is able to deny, there is one who
can’t, although she might have felt even
more affronted. Butt sang for Queen Vic-
toria “Promise of Life,” and the Queen
“sent for her and paid her a special compli-
ment. ‘I have never liked the English lan-
guage before,’ she said, ‘but in your mouth
it is beautiful.’ ” The book includes many
photographs, including one of the Butt family
taken in Sydney, another of Clara “with one
of her Australian parrots,” and a third of
Clara and her husband in Maori dress—in
which, by the way, nothing is more conspicu-
ous than Rumford’s slender shanks.
Answers to Correspondents.
!Vo votioe (except o/ a hostile character) veil
sss zl°%si s‘,r*7. ssr—*•
Iloki M.: Ought to be something good in
that separation of meat and woo'., but you have got
on stilts to handle it... .H.R.D.: Told lately in one-
fifth the space P.8.P.: The racing sob-story
is by Bathos out of Snuffle.... S.W.: A queer
mixture... .Paragot: The demise of any journal
that has helped freelances is too sad for verse.
W.F.: Hope the town is no worse than
the poetry... Warra wee: Tennis lines f oot-faulted. ..
Joan W.: It looks like a love-story tagged to a
recent personal par....E.8.: A rhyme about rain
should have a fresher note.... Brek: It took the
count. .. .P.G.L.: If the story isn’t a good one it
is immaterial whether it is fact or fiction... . Pet.
P.: A horrible form. .. .C.H.W.: Your “Mutiny
was quelled M.H.J.: The answer to “The Photo-
grapher” is in the negative.... Cygnet: “The West
verse is arid... .C.lv.: It is in deadly earnest
too deadly... .M.C.H.: Nothing suitable... .A.E.M.:
Are you sorry your deeds were “inspired by
motives pure”? It reads that way. .. .Coolgardie.
Breathless narrative made us gasp... . J.M.L.: Verse
beginning “Oh, Turandot, I'm feeling hot, com-
mitted to its own flames... .G.A.C.: Your villainy
is of the deepest dry H.M.P.: So you thought the
story about the man who saved the girl from the
tiger would please. Was the jungle in Surry Hills?
P.R.S.: You sling a lot of French and Greek
into it; but the English is horrible Callow:
Typed tripe W.S.T.: Drop a little more oil of
eommonsense into your verse machine. .. .S.L.N. .
Your quotations are all wrong; it’s not the “ ‘emi-
nent’ deadly breach,” for instance F.P.R.: We
scattered “Seeds of Kindness”... .G.J.J.M.: Too im-
mature ; the sense of rhyme is there... .A.R.T.: May
do elsewhere Weer: Can’t swallow the author
who employed a typist and two critics Robt. F.:
Your verse was a dud without a name... .R.Ij.W. .
Doomed Tuan: Miscreant, you rhymed “morn”
with “dawn.”.. •.Wm, Mac: Smart but empty. .•.
J.G.8.: A much lighter touch needed.... Bom: The
last bit of ill-luck is its rejection. .. .1.0.: Do get
out of that carry-over habit K.sie L.: Crude.-..
W.N.N.: There is the ring of hooves in it, but it’s
a rough gallop J.T.H.: That brief thought has
been breathed a billion times.... A.R. (Annandale) :
Nothing like poetry 1.M.G.: It isn’t worth that
length. .. .C.Yo: False rhymes in the last stanza;
and that’s only one defect... .RI.R.P.: Even if she
said it, Melba doesn’t deserve those verses.. .T.E.P.:
The argument is all right, but it is not made inter-
esting J.S.W.: We like that idea of the whisky
supply in the editor’s room D..T.5.: You spatter
your pages with capitals, but it’s not a. capital
story... .Elsie H.: Duly handed. You don’t develop
the interest well.. .E. J.G.: Rather long for its \ aluc.
..Paul H.: It is being given its chance; don’t
rock the boat.... Art G.: “The velvet shutters of
her eyes” closed in the w.p.b E.P.: Quite nice:
but, after all, only album verse. .. .L.T.N.: The
Salvation Army might sing it 8.L.H.: “Mani-
toba —October” —Christmas! H.H.T.: Not the
first time a man fell owing to a slip of a girl....
Elo: Much better; the last two lines excepted....
Collie: We can’t “come to the picnic” with y0u....
G.S.R.: We waste one-tenth of our time reading
about how somebody knocked out his pipe, or filled
it, or asked for a match T.M.G.: too. Why
not introduce your yarn with “Bill pulled the cat >
tail thoughtfully” ?.. • .E.J.G.: That sigh for the
country, again !. .. .W.N.W.: A fearfully long journey
to the end Caro G.: “Starlight” and Marslike
may pass-but not here. .. .R.M.8.: “My cross is
more than I can bear.” It must be as heavy as the
vers e F.S.G.: Sententious D.F.P.: Sorry....
W.H.D.S.: Lady, we like the youth, but for such
spasms of enthusiasm we haven’t the space. . . . Ona:
A good idea, but how wearily worked! G.M.h.:
Pars, if sent will be considered ; but there’s nothing-
much in the screed submitted K.M. (Yass): No;
it fails. . . .Myra E.: “Rondo” won’t do. . . .R.1v8.:
No sympathy for your bad character... .M.R.: 'our
title is “Be Cautious.” Thanks ; we threw the thing
out D McM • A vaudeville reciter might be glad oi
it Try St on one. . .Learn : Full of faded verse-blossoms.
..’..Lion M.: Artificial. .. .L.M.0.: The first awful
par. should have been enough. Yet we read it
through E.M.R.: Glad you are pleased with your
new car, but no space for poem on fact.... Yowie:
According to the “Statesman’s Year Book, the
approximate strength of the regular armies last year
was: Russian, 540,000 ; British, 210,000. The British
total includes 60,000 troops in India. . . .Ebony: r lhey
iust lack the necessary polish A.S.: The yarn
has been told before... .E.W.: The madman escaped
print Quin. S.: Your ode to Autumn is dreadful
a ., well as belated.... J.H.R.: You don’t quite get
there W.J.W.: All three are terrible J.II.
(M’ville) : Confused humor, and spun out too long.
Boon: You should be able to put it more tersely.
Coreen: It is one of the frail blooms Pixie
P.: A nice idea, but the development is not skilful
enough R.G.W.: The short rhymes don’t suggest
the ripples of a river... .Martyn W.: “Optimist”
suffers another bump.... J.H.L.: Lacks finish....
Dooley W.: A poor batch.... Ned S.: It’s really only
an anecdote Una M. M.: Don’t want it Ruby
D.: Neither quite suits.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Bloode: So many of them are old friends that
we suspect the rest A.G.: Demented poet excited
no sympathy W. J.: Iron out the bumps and file
off the jagged edges, and there’ll be hope for you.
N.P.B.: What is it —burglar cracking a safe or
mad dog biting a clock-spring? V.P.: There’s
more in drawing than taking ink out of a bottle
and putting it on paper M.A.W.: Have another
look at that arm R.D.: The horse must be extinct
in your part of the world, judging from the way
you draw one J.G.: You let yourself in for a
lot of trouble (and us for some) when you took
a pen in your hand A.F.T.: Impossible
J.W.M.: Your damp humorist was left to his fate....
G.S.C.: Our readers will not peer into that window.
. ...J.M.8.: You can’t make us turn pale by
threatening to send us more. .. . J.M.G.: Decidedly,
no C.S.: Hopeless A.R.M.: Turned down
T.L.: It’s not the packing you should apologise for.
J.W.: Uneven, and mis-shapen C.S.A.: No
case for resurrection... .S.T.H.: Don’t care for
mouse-in-the-cream humor or anything of the sort.


N.S.W. Prohibition Referendum Sept. Ist.
OF PROHIBITION
BEWARE
PUT YOUR X IN
THE BOTTOM
SQUARE
7,, >
I w.


The Bulletin
Vol. 49.—N0. 2532,
August 22, I©2®»
HARDLY THE SAME, AFTER ALL.
“Mr. Garden agrees with Mr. [?] president of the Employers’ Federation, that the present system of Industrial Arbitration ought to be scrapped."
JOCK: “This isn’t much of an umbrella, is it? Bet’s throw it away.”
BROOKS: Certainly, Jock, certainly—but let’s pick up a better one first."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Alan.’
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for hie
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the °® ce M °J E
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
Brisbane Office : 249 Adelaide Street.
Perth Office: 33 Barrack Street. ,
Adelaide Office : 12 Evans Buildings, James i iac.
London Office : 36 Southampton Street, btiai ,
W.C.2. Gerrard 8836.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted, to any address in Australasia, weekly.
V:>. months, £ 1 7,5.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; S months, is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 los., o
months, 15s. 6d.; 5 months, Bs. ,
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, ana
all Business Communications to be addressed to tnt
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to llox 2521 11.11.,
G.P.0., Sydney. ■
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to oe
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and, adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — l.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in the Main Hall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.h; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.h',
E. T. Hole, Holei'th Satire Service, 46 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” J/lh-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni Netes
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J, lloland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York; Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schulte News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and h2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 2OS I Vest hist Street, New York City.
Washington; Liberty News Co., Seattle, Wash.; Burrill
C. Johnson, 338 2nd Avenue, North Seattle, Wash.;
Wheatley News Co., 7 Oh Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News
Stand, shli South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Monarch News Agency, 115 West 6th Street, Los
Angeles, Cal,; Smith Bros.’ News Co., Box 573
Arcade Station, Los Angeles, Cal.; and from the ’
Barber on Union S.S. Co.’s and Matson Co.’s mail
boats.
Egypt.— Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Konsf.
China. —Breiver and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, S.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel; and from the Barber
on boats of K.P.M. Line.
Ceylon.— T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bookstall, Galle Face notel,
Colombo; M. Atmaram arid Sons, hh Chatham Street,
Fort Colombo; A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York
Street, Fort Colombo; The Colonial Photographic
Co., York Arcade, Fort Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: hoz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional hoz.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lhd.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: hoz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 1928.
BAD-MANNERED CORRESPONDENTS.
The constant receipt, by importing persons
here, of threatening letters from manufac-
turing persons in England, concerning Aus-
tralia’s tariff, and sometimes about other
matters of domestic concern, has long been
a bore, and the writers don’t grow more civil
or less absurd with increasing years. Their
communications are evidently meant to be
published, and the S. M. Herald finds'space
for them. A recent sample, from a cloth-
making firm at Bradford, struck a particu-
larly high note: —
“We are not going to continue to take
these advances in tariffs lying down any
longer- The Bradford Chamber is sending a
reasoned protest to Mr. Bruce, pointing out
how necessary cheaper wool is to conform to
the buying capacity of the world users, and
how the Australian tariff is increasing the
cost of the production of wool. At the last
meeting of the Halifax Chamber several
speakers pointed out bitterly the uselessness
of colonial preference when the tariff was
prohibitive in the first place,_ and _ also the
irony of a country pleading imperial senti-
ment for colonial produce while doing its
utmost to knock us out by high tariffs. I
suggested that the proper line is to adhere
to imperial preference, but to classify it; to
buy firstly frorii Canada, New Zealand and
South Africa, whose tariffs are moderate, and
lastly from Australia, whose tariffs are im-
moderate.”
A bright Bradfordian originality attaches
to the proposal that this country should
sell its wool for less than buyers are pre-
pared to pay for it, in order to make things
easier for “world users.” It may be the
right thing to do, but in a matter-of-fact
world it isn’t done. It isn’t done to any
large extent even in Yorkshire. And if the
Australian tariff raises “the cost of the pro-
duction of wool,” it hasn’t raised it above
selling price, which is the business con-
sideration.
* * * *
Possibly it is because of this country’s
degrading dependence on external loans
that some blatant economists and traders
in British parts have got into the habit of
hectoring it as if it was a poor and even
bedridden relation. The most recent trade
figures— J. Bull’s official figures for 1927—-
give particulars of 142 countries or domi-
nions with which he does business. As a
buyer of J. Bull’s own manufactured pro-
ducts, which are the kind that supply work
and wages for his people, as distinguished
from goods that he imports and re-
exports, making only a jobber’s commission
in the process, Australia ranks second. For
a community of 6i million people that is
a heroic effort to provide a living for the
sons of John Bull and his wife Jane Cow.
In addition it is an absurdly expensive and
self-sacrificing effort, and if parties at Brad-
ford or elsewhere can’t “continue to take
it lying down any longer,” it is also a
wasted and unappreciated effort. Some con-
densed figures, dealing with countries of big
areas or big populations or both, follow in
round figures:—
Imports of British Products in 1927.
Population. Imports.
British India . . . . 247,000,000 £85,058,000
Australia .. .. 6,200,000 61,190,000
United States.. .. 105,720,000 45,482,000
Germany . . . . 63,180,000 41,825,000
South African Union 6,928,000 30,326,000
Canada . . . . 8,788,000 29,259,000
Argentina .. .. 10,348,000 26,993,000
France .. .. 40,743,000 23,636,000
Maoriland .. .. 1,344,000 19,607,000
Japan 65,006,000 15,161,000
Italy 40,423,000 13,486,000
China 318,653,000 9,691,000
Russia 147,013,000 4,513,000
And in that motley crowd, ranging all the
way from the sublime to the ridiculous,
Australia ranked among the very few which
were good customers in the sense that their
total purchases from the Old Man in
London exceeded their sales to him, so that
the trade gave him some cash to go on
with.
* * * *
When insolent persons in Yorkshire and
Lancashire, who question Australia’s right
to have manufactures of its own, send
Mr. Stanley Bruce positive instructions
how to run his own native land, and state
that they will not continue to remain tak-
ing the situation lying down any longer,
the Prime Minister’s habitual suavity is a
drawback. A more truculent man might
reply to “reasoned protests” from Bradford
or Halifax by saying that it would be more
seemly if the memorialists directed their
verbal artillery at Russia, which is a
wretched customer and has robbed Britain
of a thousand millions or so to boot, or
against China, another bad customer and
bad pay that has made itself intensely dis-
agreeable. He might state that Britain,
after all, doesn’t take half our wool, and,
though we are grateful, yet gratitude has
its limits. He might add regretfully that
our imports must be further greatly re-
duced, by tariff or otherwise, as the strain
has become impossible. And in conclusion
it might not be amiss to return the pro-
test.
THE RACIAL ASPECT OF PROHIBI-
TION.
There are races which take kindly to regi-
mentation. If Mussolini ordered the
Italians to abstain from wine they would
obey without audible complaint. They are
already abstaining on certain days from
macaroni, in the interests of the national
rice-growing industry; and they smoke the
world’s worst tobacco and eat the world’s
worst salt, and utter no protests, because
tobacco and salt are the monopolies of their
Government. The docility of the average
American, his readiness to bow to any form
of official tyranny is a matter for world
comment. He and his countrymen are
more standardised, from their culture
to their clothes, than any race the
world has known. Thus he was cut out
by nature to make the Prohibition experi-
ment; and maybe, after a desperate struggle
which only the richest people in history
could face with equanimity, he will make a
partial success of it. Australians are
not a bit like that. They succeeded as
soldiers largely because of their intense
individualism. They only submitted to
standardisation as a measure of despera-
tion. Battle discipline was almost the
only sort of discipline they knew.
# 4 * *
No virtue is here claimed for this idiosyn-
crasy. A dictator, benevolent or otherwise,
a Mussolini, could make any great Aus-
tralian city a far more seemly and credit-
able spectacle than it is —if Australian city-
dwellers were like those of Italy. He might
sweep every mendicant, tout and drunk off
the streets, and intern every prostitute in
a suburra as Mussolini has done in Rome.
The citizens would feel happier and more
comfortable, in one sense; but, assuming
they retained any trace of Australianism,
they would feel profoundly uncomfortable
in another. They would insist that the
price was too big. The British race, which
is rather better represented in White Aus-
tralia at the present time than it is in
cosmopolitan and nigger-infested England,
has never got anywhere either socially or
politically by means of coups d’etat. The
English have had few revolutions in the last
900 years, and none of them has acted as
more than a temporary check on the steady,
leisurely flow of the life of the people. It
is their way to hasten slowly, and to view
as a quack the fluent optimist who promises
to make them moral, sober and wealthy by
one splendid Act of Parliament. They are
growing soberer every year—a fact which
is amply confirmed by police and medical
evidence —and they are doing it on lines
characteristic of the race. These are the
only lines which have the slightest prospect
of success in N. S. Wales.
* $ * #
Parliament, spurred on by the practical
reformers, is fixing shorter and shorter
hours for the sale of alcohol; and, by in-
creased taxation on beer and spirits, is mak-
ing drink harder and harder to buy. The
Bishop of Liverpool’s Liquor Bill, which
was only narrowly defeated in the Lords
last year, embodied the principle of the
Time Limit: property in licenses was to
cease after 15 years and they were only
to be granted annually. Also the people
in any given area were to have the right to
decide by vote on the extent and method
of the sale of intoxicants in their area.
It is an example of the “middle way,” so
dear to the British mind, as applied to the
Prohibition question. In the meantime,
alcohol is being attacked with deadly effect
from other points. The drunkard is no
longer regarded as a cross between a hero
and a comedian. He no longer figures in
sympathetic parts on the stage, and he is
out of date in vaudeville. The street drunk
is made to feel that he is a nuisance; in
private life young men who drink to excess
are ostracised;'and no reputable club would
put up with a “three-bottle man” for long.
Only one kind of drunkard is tolerated at
all—the elderly unfortunate who acquired
the habit when teetotalism, now so fashion-
able amongst the athletic idols of the nation,
was a shame and a reproach. It is along
such lines that Australians will be led to
greater and greater sobriety. Prohibition
is a magnificent gesture in any community,
but in a preponderantly British community
it is a meaningless one.
DEMOCRACY AT A DEAD-END.
The advent of the Federal elections has
again set the party machines at work erect-
ing the paste-board throne upon which,
wearing a tinsel crown, King Demos Aus-
tralians is about to sit and receive the
vows of allegiance that are renewed every
three years by his loyal subjects.
Demos is still the fool he always was.
Nothing can shake his belief in the almighti-
ness of a nose. Line up the people in two
rows, count their noses, and the side which
has one nose more than the other is sup-
posed to represent all the wisdom. If it
suited the mob with the one nose more to
plunder and enslave the mob with the one
nose less, on the principle of the greatest
good to the greatest number, Demos would
order that to be done. The nose of the
elector making the majority is therefore the
nose of a despot. That is what democracy
intends.
But when Demos demands government
of this kind the fool is answered according
to his folly. Instead of the majority rule
for which he asks he is given a travesty of
it in the form of party rule worked by an
electoral machine under the regime of which
nose power is used only as a name to con-
jure with. Present-day Parliaments are
created by political trusts which pool their
votes. With the strength of organisation
these trusts scare independent candidates
out of the field. The man who defies their
power, with only an apathetic undisciplined
mob to back him, may count himself lucky
if in addition to the time and money lost
in a contest foredoomed to failure he is
not penalised by the forfeiture of his deposit.
As a rule only cranks will take that risk.
The consequence is that when the elector
is dragged into the polling booth and com-
pelled to vote, his choice is restricted to
two or three party nominees. He may have
faith in none of them, fyut he must go
through the form of choosing one all the
same. This puts him in the position of
having to disfranchise himself by voting for
a man in whom he has no confidence, and
so agreeing to be misrepresented, or to make
his vote informal and allow his representa-
tive to be nominated by somebody else.
When the election conducted in this
fashion is over, Demos’s tinsel crown is con-
temptuously knocked off, his cardboard
throne kicked over, and the hand of the
waiting taxgatherer makes a deeper dive
than ever into the dethroned king’s pockets
for money to keep the great game going.
It is as plain as the nose on Demos’s
face that the present system cannot continue
indefinitely. And it is high time people
began to prepare against being taken un-
awares., We do not want Fascism to come
in and rescue us. And we are already at a
stage where with parliamentary government
strangled by the party machines, progress
stands beckoning to the first Mussolini
amongst us who proves equal to his oppor-
tunity. And the danger is that Sovietism
may get in ahead of him.
Two things might delay it a while. One
is to abolish payment of politicians. Never
mind the cry about restricting the govern-
mental function to men of means. The best
place for men without means is out looking
after their own affairs. And we have ample
evidence of the danger that lurks in the
practice of putting men into public life who
have to live on the game.
Another way of bursting up the political
rings would be to pay members of Parlia-
ment £25,000 a year, Ministers £50,000. The
rush for the spoil would destroy all party
discipline. And should a “Red” win the
result would be to turn him immediately
into a safe Conservative whose wife would
set him to work angling for an Imperial
title.
But these are only palliatives. The only
way in which a permanent cure can be
effected is to lay the axe to the root of the
party system.
To begin with, stop the foolery of com-
pelling people to vote. The man who
resigns the responsibility of government-
making in favor of someone better qualified
may be a fool, but he represents a less
dangerous type than those who, without any
qualification, go to the ballot and vote
down men whose talents fit them for the
job.
To the others whom the vote-trusts now
prevent from taking an intelligent part in
the country’s government, there is an easy
way by which their franchise might be
restored. Let any ten with views in com-
mon form themselves into a tything, and
each such tything appoint one of its mem-
bers a centurion. In the same way let the
centurions appoint millennials, and so on
ffntil a governing body was created to sit
permanently and appoint administrators
who would hold office “during good be-
havior” irrespective of changes in the poli-
tical wind blowing outside.
Quotha: “But even into this paradise
the party serpent would sooner or later
find his way.” Perhaps. But even so, it
could do no more harm there than the one
by which Demos’s present Eden has been
desolated.
THOMAS COURTNRY.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Anti-Arbitrationists.
When the president of the N.S.W.
Employers’ Federation and Jock Garden
find themselves in agreement on a matter
of industrial law the rest of us may be
excused for looking for a nigger in the
woodheap. The point of agreement is that
compulsory arbitration ought to be abol-
ished, and a system of conciliation set up
in its place. Yet it is easy enough to find
the motives that actuate Sovieteer Garden
and Capitalist Brooks. Employers are sick
of awards that they are compelled to obey
while any big union of employees can
flout them. But at last it looks as though
the Federal Arbitration Court, at any rate,
is to be fitted with a set of teeth; and it
is no doubt this possibility that has in-
spired Mr. Garden to welcome Mr. Brooks
as a comrade.
Dissatisfaction with the Court on the part
of men sufficiently intelligent to perceive
that Garden’s principal aim in life is to get
them out of their jobs and keep them out
is based partly on an innate distrust of the
lawyers who preside over the courts, and
partly on a well-founded conviction that
the settlement of industrial disputes ought
to be left in the hands of men who know
the industry. The Whitley councils and
shop committees of Britain, the Victorian
wages boards and the conciliation councils
of Maoriland and some of the Australian
States quite satisfactorily settled hundreds
of disputes. But in Australia the prin-
ciple of conciliation has faded away, giving
place to a system dominated by the idea of
compulsory arbitration at the hands of an
arbiter having no knowledge of the industry
concerned. Arbitration Court Judges have
been faced, not with the job for which they
were trained—the application and interpre-
tation of law—but the formulation of an
entirely new system of law. Several Judges,
working in the same field simultaneously,
have attempted this task for years past,
and it never seems to have occurred to
them or to the Governments that appointed
them that it would be useful for them to
meet occasionally and codify their prin-
ciples.
To scrap the principle of arbitration and
go back to Rafferty’s Rules isn’t the intel-
ligent thing to do in the circumstances. A
rearrangement under which each industry
would be enabled to settle its own affairs
as far as possible without legal or other
outside intervention, and reference of dis-
puted points to a tribunal on which both
sides had representatives, may solve the
problem. But there must be some final
authority, backed by the State, to settle
quarrels. The alternative is not a pleasant
thing to think about.
4.
Let’s Revive the Diggers’ Army.
The plight to which the Commonwealth
Military Forces have been reduced by six
years of false economy was the subject of
a debate at the N. S. Wales Congress of
the Returned Soldiers’ League; and the Dig-
gers did ivell to draw attention to it. On
June 30, 1914, the strength of the C.M.F.


“The Bulletin” Prize Story
Competitions
REPORT.
We, the Judges appointed in THE BULLETIN Prize Story
Competition, having read carefully the novels submitted to us and
fully considered their merits, award the prizes as follows: —
1st Prizes—
“A House Is Built,” by “Faith Sidney.”
“Coonard’oo,” by “Ashburton Jim.”
3rd Prize—
“Men are Human,” by “Bryan Ward.”
Our first choice is "A House Is Built, an Australian prose
epic of marked literary quality. We find, however, such great
merit in "Coonardoo, with its outstanding value for serial publi-
cation, that we recommend it also as worthy of a first prize.
We desire to express our appreciation of the high average
of excellence shown in the novels we have been called upon to
read. Among the rejected are many that will compare more than
favorably with novels from abroad circulated through our lending
libraries or filling the shelves of our booksellers.
It is regretted that serious illness prevented Mr. Heney attend-
ing the final meetings of the committee. We had, however, before
us his notes and comments, and have no doubt that had he been
present he would have joined heartily in our unanimous decision.
T. B. CLEGG.
D. H. SOUTER.
G. MACKANESS.
CECIL MANN.
August 18, 1928.
Having opened the sealed envelopes after the judges had com
pleted their work, we certify that the authors are:
“A House Is Built” (1st) FLORA S. ELDERSHAW AND
MARJORIE BARNARD.
“Coonardoo” . . (1st) KATHARINE SUSANNAH PRICHARD
“Men are Human” (3rd) VANCE PALMER.
T. B. CLEGG, Chairman of Judges.
W. E. FITZ HENRY, Secretary to the Competitions.
August 18, 1928.
“The Bulletin” entered upon the project of encouraging long-
>ry writing in Australia without any misgivings as to the result;
d it is more than gratifying that the very first competition has
oduced two stories of such great merit that the judges have
iclared them to be of first-prize quality The Bulletin has plea-
re in accepting the judges recommendation, and will pay J
Misses Eldershaw and Barnard and a further £500 to Katharine
sannah Prichard (Mrs. Throssell).
In view of the judges’ report that Miss Prichard s story is ot
,utstanding value for serial publication,” it will be the first to be
inted in “The Bulletin.” The opening chapters will be contained
a specially enlarged number to be issued on September!).
Next week (August 29) a list of the judges Highly Com-
ended” and “Commended” will be published.
was 45,600, and the “Official Year Book ”
referring to that period, mentions that the
annual increase will be considerable. But
13 years later the number had got down
to 44,000, although the population had
advanced from 4,900,000 to 6,100,000. In
1913-14, £2,752,000 was provided for the
army. Last year, with the purchasing
power of the pound sterling ever so much
less, the amount voted was £1,491,500.
The dangerous decline dates from the
International Conference at Washington in
1921, which the lamentable Pearce attended
as Australian Minister of Defence. Though
the agreement there arrived at dealt with
naval matters only, it was used as an excuse
for pandering to the opponents of universal
training, who were making a lot of noise
at the time. -So, as the “Year Book’ men-
tions, “it was decided to restrict training
to the more populous centres, and to cer-
tain quotas only:—
“From July I, 1922, to June 30, 1920,
training in the Senior Cadets was limited to
two quotas instead of four, and in the Citizen
Forces to two quotas instead of seven, bince
July 1, 1925, Senior Cadet training lias been
reduced to one quota only, while Citizen
Force training has been increased to three
quotas.”
The “Year Book” gives details of five
Citizen Force quotas of which no training
was required; registrations numbered
143,751. From three quotas in training
56,932 youths were exempted and 2218 were
missing; only 42,884 were classed as citizen
soldiers. “The condition of the C.M.F.,”
said one of the Digger delegates, “is deplor-
able. The trainees themselves show very
little interest in their work.” Nothing else
could be expected considering that the min-
ority serves and the majority escapes, while
the force is starved in every branch, as
General Chauvel annually reports.
The Congress’s proposal for restoring
the old enthusiasm and efficiency is an ex-
change of regiments, a Citizen Force bat-
talion going “to England each year for one
year’s duty in London” and a battalion of
British regulars coming to Canberra. But
the cost of the plan would be out of all
proportion to the benefits, if any; and the
disadvantages are obvious, to put it mildly.
The Bulletin suggests instead that the
universality of the training scheme should
be restored. This would banish from
trainee’s mind the feeling that he is “the
mug,” and would admit of many Diggers
who were splendid soldiers but have not
done well in civil life being added to the
permanent staff, which is about a thousand
short of its pre-war strength; and the pre-
sence of these veterans would be an in-
spiration and a source of pride to the young
fellows. As rewards for the diligent, train-
ing camps, with transportation part of the
way by car and aeroplane, could be periodi-
cally held in interesting and strategically
important parts of the Commonwealth like
the Northern Territory, the Kimberleys and
Cape York Peninsula. An adaptation of
the old TJ.S. system of army posts is also
suggested. It would solve the problem of
training lads remote from the centres of
population and assist settlement by estab-
lishing, even in a small way, local markets
for the settlers.
Sex Crimes: An Experiment.
Dear Bulletin, —“Marico” is in for such a
rough time because of his advocacy of the
“licensed house” that I come to his assist-
ance with a concrete example which will pin
objectors to earth. That example is Broken
Hill. Because of its large proportion of
young men, for the most part very well
paid, one might fear that it is a city where
young women would be greatly liable to
molestation. In addition, there are a large
number of Southern Europeans, 10 to 15
hundred of them, all at the mating age,
who, because a girl seen with any one of
them loses caste, are denied the society of
those with whom, in other circumstances,
they would mate; who cannot get the
society of their own women and who, be-
cause of the unsuitability of Australian
food and the need for a common tongue,
herd together in batches of 15, 20, even
up to 40, and take their pleasures in “buck”
surroundings with its foul talk, gambling
and drinking of much wine. Moreover,
because of shift work men are about at all
hours of the night, passing in lonely places
many a lightly clothed girl going home from
party or dance.
Yet girls and women move about at all
hours of the night without molestation or
without fear of molestation; and, even more
important still, yoyng men are able to
stroll around without being solicited, and
for that every mother is extremely thank-
ful. The last rape of a woman is so far
distant that only those directly concerned
would be able to place it, and the outrage
of a child is unknown. There are no cases
of women robbing inebriated men, no sexual
offences of any kind, and the dope taker
or distributor and the razor slasher are un-
known.
The immunity of women and children
from outrages and insult requires some ex-
planation and Broken Hill offers it—the
presence of “tolerated” houses. The houses
are strictly supervised by the police, and
the conditions under which they allow the
occupants to work are vigorously enforced
and are rigidly observed by those who come
under them. The numbers of the women
are strictly limited; they must live in their
own quarter; there must be only one woman
in one house; there must be no drinking or
parties; there must be no soliciting even
from the gate or door (and there isn’t—
an open door signifies that the occupant is
available, the closed door that she is en-
gaged). It is recognised, of course, that
even such women as these must have some
one on whom to lavish their affections, and
some of them have their paramours; but
these must work, and they do mostly the
hard work of pushing a truck undergiound,
or mining, and they must not be on the
premises during business hours. There is
no flaunting of vice and no stimulation is
offered by the occupants, the whole thing
being as ‘prosaic as the buying of a pound
of butter; and because of that fact the
places are only sought wdien attempts at
further repression might result in an erup-
tion which would cause serious harm to
some woman or child or the patient him-
self. So quiet, orderly, and well conducted
are the places that it is possible far a
young girl to pass along the street without
molestation, and a visitor to be quite un-
aware of the nature of the district through
which he or she is passing. It has happened
more than once, too, that the police have
been given the tip from within when a girl
too young has started there.
Every 10 years or so an Elmer Gantry
has come to town to raise an outcry against
the system, but his cries have fallen on deaf
ears, because the clergy, although a little
startled at first, soon recognise the unusual
conditions and observe the safety and free-
dom of the women and children in spite
of them and, while not openly praising the
system, at least retain sufficient common-
sense to say nothing about it.—Yours,
etc., P.C. X.
Treasurer Page Sees No Remedy.
Treasurer Earle Page took a chance to tell
the Primary Producers’ Conference that
'•'there are insuperable difficulties in the
way of making any change in the tariff
policy of Australia.” He requires so much
money, and it is a great deal moie than
was required when he first came into office.
He doesn’t see how to do with less; in fact,
he is charging more than formerly of his
oddments to loans.
The biggest single item of (paper) revenue
is customs, swollen by the fact that Aus-
tralia imports far more goods now than it
can pay for in view of the interest bill it
has to" meet; and through these imports
our industries are retarded, and the un-
emploved are multiplied and desirable
immigrants are discouraged. Further,
more than £40,000,000 was borrowed last
yeaf to pay for imports and interest bills,
also for unemployment. The present posi-
tion is that if a radical change for the
better is made in the tariff, either by mak-
ing Protection much more effective or,
which would be vastly better, by the pro-
hibition of a long list of non-essential
foreign goods, the Treasurer wouldn t get
so much paper income from duties on the
imports that we can’t pay for except with
the aid of huge loans repayable in gold.
So the Treasurer knows nothing for it but
to go on in the old way. If a lot of im-
porting was stopped, local manufactures
would grow, and many of them. would be
quite capable of paying excise duties, as well
as furnishing employment and helping the
income-tax and probate duties. But miti-
gating circumstances like these apparently
don’t appeal to the depressed Page.
4
The Public Pig Trough.
The wave of sexual crime that has been
afflicting some of the other States has
alarmed Queenslanders, and some of then'
have been asking Attorney-General Mullan
for legislation to prohibit the presence in
court of anyone outside the parties con-
cerned in such cases, the officials and the
witnesses, and also to prevent newspapers
reporting the cases in detail.
There is a good deal to be said for the
idea. If the first suggestion were adopted
innocent parties like the “Girl in Court’
(B. 8/8/’2B) would not have to face the
ordeal of giving the beastly details of their
experiences before a leering mob of
strangers. The prohibition of salacious re-
ports in newspapers which publish them in
the most intimate detail, while posing as
journals of the highest moral standing and
influence in the community, would do even
more good than the barring out of the dirty-
minded slattern and loafer. There is a con-
siderable section of the • community which
has no time to attend the courts and wallow
in the public pig-trough in person, because
it has to stick to its job or lives too far
away. This section finds solace in the fact
that the trough is delivered to its door, so
to speak, whereupon it can make up for earlier
disappointment in the bosom of its family,
the said family waiting impatiently the
while for its turn at the trough. If legis-
lation were to put a ban on the publication
of such matter, a very considerable number
of unduly impressionable people of both
sexes would be guarded against one of the
most unedifying forms of sensational jour-
nalism, and that in spite of themselves.
Few would be so prejudiced as to argue
that this would not be good for the indi-
viduals themselves and for the body politic.
When conservative England resolved,
some years ago, to curtail that liberty
of the press which had degenerated
into the vilest license in connection
with divorce proceedings, and forbade the
publication of anything but the simplest
statement of the cases and their
results, a bellowing went up from journalism
of the sensation-mongering type. The
alleged palladium of the people, an un-
shackled press, was in danger, and the
founts of justice with it. The storm died
as quickly as it rose. The great and re-
spectable British middle class, which is the
main support of the British press, ceased to
eat journalistic dirt with its breakfast bacon
or its evening muffin, and apparently never
even missed it.
There seems no earthly reason why the
principle should not be extended to the
viler forms of criminal cases. Our judiciary,
though it may have its faults, is above sus-
picion, and can be trusted to see that the
scales of Justice are held level. The pre-
vailing notion that a concupiscent mob of
men and women in the frowsy gallery of a
public court, or an eager set of reporters
straining to gain credit lay turning in “good
copy,” can ensure that desirable consumma-
tion is too maniacal to call for further
comment.
♦
An Inter-State Tariff War.
The Queensland Labor Government is at
daggers drawn with its cousin of Victoria
over the inspection requirements lately
exacted in the case of Queensland chilled
jaeef arriving in the southern State. The
meat itself has been referred to in Parlia-
ment and press as “stale imported stuff,”
and the action taken has been camouflaged
as being necessary from the Board of
Health’s point of view. The meat actually
is of prime quality, prepared in the most
elaborate meat-packing works in the Com-
monwealth by up-to-date processes, and is
probably superior to most of the locally
grown product. Still, the unhappy Hogan,
with his “Progressive” Country party tail
wagging him mercilessly, has been forced by
the appendage to what Premier McCormack
of Queensland correctly describes as some-
thing very like that restriction of trade
between the States which the Federal Con-
stitution forbids. Hogan has now gone
further, for a recent ukase forbids the use
of any but Victorian and Riverina meat in
the big Victorian railway providoring de-
partment.
Meanwhile the situation is growing ten-
ser, and the Queenslanders are darkly con-
sidering ways and means of “dealing with
“imported” goods from Victoria.
4— ——
Dear Bulletin, —May I appeal to readers to
remember the lonely bushmen who are toil-
ing away in the interior of Australia, blazing
the trail and laying foundations for the
future? Many of these men pass the time
away reading the labels on jamtins—and
thousands of Bulletins are burnt! The
bushman likes “The Bully,” as he calls it,
and greatly appreciates the kindly thought
of the men and women who now post it
to one of the Australian Inland Mission
padres or an A.I.M. hospital nurse. Many
are doing it, but we want many more to
do it, and thus help us brighten the lone-
liness of these men. Copies may be sent
to the Manse, Carnarvon, W.A.; the Manse,
Broome, W.A.; the Sisters, A.I.M. Hospital,
Port Hedland, W.A.; or any other of the
other various A.I.M. centres. —Yours faith-
fully W. E. Darin, the Manse, Carnarvon,
wa!


On a Cold and Frosty Morning”
SHELL OILS and SHELL SPIRIT—the quick starting pair—ensure an easy
start whatever the state of the thermometer. One depression of the starter
and the even hum of the engine tells you of mechanical well being.
SHELL gives you many miles of smoothly run motoring
pleasure, with ample power and speed when required.
SHELL spirit
MOTOR OILS
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
5579
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Dicky” Foster.
One result of the
L i b.-Country party
wrangle in S. Aus. is
that the Cockies are
digging up a candi-
date to oppose Dicky
Foster, M.H.R., in
Wakefield. Foster has
been member for the
district since August,
1909, but except when
the A.L.P. goes off its
head his majority is
never great. He could
probably be beaten if
the Labor people with-
drew their man and
supported the Cocky,
but as they reckon
their vote at 12,000 or
13,000 and the Cockies’
at 3000 or 4000 they
are unlikely to do that.
Scullin, Theodore and their political kith
and kin declare with lofty scorn that they
aren’t dependent on Communist support, have
no dealings with Communists and hardly
know that such characters exist. But they
depend on the Australian Council of Trade
Unions, which went Red at its recent con-
ference and shouted for the removal of racial
barriers; and Jock Garden, editor of the
Pan-Pacific Worker and member of the
executive of the Moscow Red International,
has been appointed one of the committee
which is to do election toil on their behalf.
So the disclaimers of tangled and demoralised
politicians wear very thin.
The Vic. Hogans had seven votes to the
good on McPhairson’s no-confidence motion.
It will be different when they attempt to
pass redistribution of seats. On that
measure they will have arrayed against
them the four Country Progs., who now
sit in the Ministerial corner, and McLaehlan,
who has a place in the Opposition corner ;
and as the matter is vital to all five, the
Dunstans and McLaehlan will be hard to
recapture. A state of crisis will, in fact, be
automatically proclaimed from the time the
Seats Bill makes its appearance.
The Kellogg Pact, named after Billings
Kellogg, U.S. Chief Secretary, belongs to
the same family as the Holy Alliance. That
was a union of big Powers, “guided by the
principles of Christian charity,” to. avoid
falling out with each other because it was
expensive, and to show just as much con-
sideration to small Powers as the big ones
felt inclined for. The Kellogg arrangement
aims higher and may have better luck, but
it resembles its European ancestor too closely
to excite much optimism.
Queensland had 38,743 State employees
on June 30 —Premier McCormack gave the
information in Parliament. With Federal
and local-government employees added,
there must bo 50,000 Queenslanders work-
ing for public authorities, and no doubt
the 50,000 can influence 150,000 votes.
That practically means onc-tliird of the
electorate —there were 440,851 persons en-
rolled in Queensland at the last Common-
wealth elections. It is a disquieting cir-
cumstance, and there are signs that even
the McCormacks are uneasy in their minds.
The Nats, and Cockies were on bad terms
at the 1922 Common-
wealth election, and
cross-voting helped C.
M. Graham to become
one of the two West-
ralian Labor Senators.
Even then his majo-
rity was only 541.
There will be a Nat.-
Cocky ticket next
time, and Graham
and Needham are in
danger, particularly
Graham —his leader is
expected to get a use-
ful personal vote.
However, the good im-
pression made by the
Collier Government
will help the threat-
ened Senators, especi-
ally if it does its best
in the meantime to
pass a decent redistri-
bution-of-seats measure.
Sen. Graham.
At the end of last year—no later figures
have been published—there were 17,576
Assembly electors in Canning, comprising
South Perth and neighboring suburbs, and
267 in Menzies, 455 miles north-east of the
capital. Canning, in fact, had a greater
electoral population than 15 other constitu-
encies combined (there arc only 50 alto-
gether), 13 being on the goldfields and two
in the pastoral north. There has been noth-
ing like it since the days of Old Sarum.
Some cheering news crept into the papers
last week, although the ravings of Garden
and his tribe and the reports of the latest
weekly waterfront wrangle were given ever
so much more space. Australia’s wool
cheque, it was announced, amounted to
£60,873,000 last year, the average price per
bale being a penny short of £25. Also a
Bradford gentleman, after the customary
grumble, admitted that there was no danger
of over-production: “as a matter of fact,
there is insufficient wool in the world to feed
75 p.c. of the machines.”
The blessed principle of one man one job
is beginning to find favor with the Papuan,
who in earlier days had no job at all, every-
thing except eating and fighting being left to
the missus. A brown brother, sued at Port
Moresby for refusing to clean a pathway,
successfully pleaded that he had been engaged
as a domestic, and that cleaning paths was
not domestic work. It looks as if Papua
is well on its way to the Arbitration Court
millennium we have attained in Australia.
The Farmers and Settlers’ Association, in
conference at Sydney, decided to ask for a
bounty on exported wheat and flour. This
was foreshadowed by witnesses before the
Child Endowment Commission, the idea being,
that both the crop and the price thereof are
precarious. And the view is probably taken
that the bounty would be paid here in paper,
which doesn’t matter so much, while the
exports would sell abroad for gold, which does
matter. Still, if the device succeeded too well
people here would have to pay more through
too many sellers wanting to sell abroad.
Meanwhile it is alleged that Australia “has
now taken second place among the foreign
buyers of United States motor-cars.” Flour
is our second largest vegetable export, and
some years it almost half-pays the bill for
foreign motor-cars and parts.
A particularly mean young man named
Padgham is to do three months in Melbourne,
if the Minister doesn’t let him out half-way.
He not only wept bitterly in the dock but
howled dismally in his cell afterwards. He
wanted money in his business, and persuaded
his best girl, who was a cashier, to go em-
bezzling and “lend” him the proceeds. Padg-
ham’s trade was that of “business agent.”
and the bill to supervise and regulate that
kind of person comes none too soon.
Comrade Ryan, who represented the Aus-
tralian Council of Trade-Unions at that
“Pan-Pacific Congress” at Shanghai where
his fellow-delegates were five Asiatics, an
American and a Russian, is wi-iting his im-
pressions of Moscow, the show place of the
Soviets, for the Labor Daily. There is
one delightful passage :
I was given a practical illustration of the equality
of the sexes in Soviet Russia. Men and women
were working side by side shovelling snow. On
inquiry I learned that they received exactly the
same wages. On the trams the same thing operated.
Yours for the great Australian Revolution
and shovel work for women!
One of the expanded features of Bavin-
shaw finance is the making of loans with
N.S.W. Savings Bank money, up to £lOOO
per loan, for liouse-building purposes. The
advance will be as much as 90 per cent, of
the value, or rather the cost, of the structure,
with land prices high and building charges
enormous. The offer is open only to persons
with incomes below £5OO a year. It is one
more development of the habit of locking up
money repayable at call in long-dated invest-
ments. If losses occur in the lending of
some 25 per cent, more than private institu-
tions consider safe, the State is to shoulder
them. Unfortunately such obligations are
apt to come home to roost at the worst time.
Parliamentary government is a compli-
cated business to which very few races take
kindly, and some of these don’t take tb it
long. In Asia, Japan is giving a colorable
imitation of the article, and Turkey furnishes
a disreputable imitation, and the British in
India are trying to build up sketchy terraces
of councils and things, which seem to have
little durability of their own. And across the
continental border,, in Egypt, a shocking
parody on two-house and one-horse rule has
been adjourned for a long period. A bill
legalising chaos was its undoing. Little
village councils seem the usual Asiatic limit
in the way of “free” institutions. Even
Moses didn’t supply Israel with a Par-
liament, and Moses was a knowledgeable man.
A newspaper paragraph of recent date
alleged that if Prohibition is not car-
ried in N.S.W. on September 1 the Govern-
ment will introduce some restrictive legis-
lation as an alternative. If that is to be
taken seriously it implies that the Bavin
Ministry regards Prohibition as a possibility,
and it requires some courage to do that aiid
preserve a show of equanimity. The promise
of compensation brings a novel element into
the case. It may even divide the Wets them-
selves. There are over-rented and heavily
taxed licensees who wouldn’t be averse to
taking their compensation and trying their
luck elsewhere, and there are shady pub-
keepers who must feel that they would suffer
very little more from police suspicion as
bootleggers than they do now, and would be
under much less expense. And the ageing
barmaid, or the one with a marriage engage-
ment and a need for furniture, may take a
business view of the matter and throw a
speck of influence into the scale. Every
speck helps.
Shand, K.C., who has been briefed to
assist the Royal Commissioner inquiring into
the late Sydney City Council’s coal trans-
actions, sprang a surprise by calling upon J.
H. Mostyn, the last
Labor Lud Mayor, to
produce "a document
executed by the Aus-
tral Investment Co.,
Ltd., in favor of Mrs.
Mostyn.” Mostyn said
he hadn’t got it, and
the same reply was fur-
nished by ex-Ald. Eng-
lish in respect of Mrs.
English. Then Richard
Woof, formerly super-
intendent of the muni-
cipal power - station,
went into the box and
confessed to having re-
ceived tainted coal-
money for years, shar-
ing, he alleged, with
Silas Maling at times
and on one occasion
with Labor Lud Mayor
Stokes, M.L.A., and
Aid. Holdsworth,
M.L.A. The gentle-
man rounded off his
Ex-Lud Mayor
Mostyn.
story by explaining that he joined the muni-
cipal service at £4OO p.a., worked up to £5OO
p.a. in the course of 15 years, and left with
£9OOO out on mortgage.
The strong, gale of political righteousness
that is sweeping over Sydney is blowing good
in more directions than one. In the inquiry
into the City Council’s coal contracts 11
counsel are engaged. A leading K.C. dreamt
the other night that as a matter of patri-
otism the Law Association had decided to
provide counsel for such cases free of cost.
He awoke with a scream.
As Vic. Chief Railway Commissioner
Clapp is under agreement till April, 1930,
and may then get a renewal if a Nationalist
Government is in office, it is unlikely that he
will allow himself to be goaded by his critics
into throwing up his job. And the Hogan
Government, which is trying to lop off £lOO
here and £5O there by way of economy,
doesn’t want to make him a present of £9OOO
or £lO,OOO for standing down. When the
Assembly Seats Redistribution Bill is dealt
with Clapp will perhaps have no need to
trouble about the Hogans’ poor opinion of
his administrative methods. They, too, may
have other things to think about.
Westralia’s Phil Collier has an admirer in
James Ryan, ho n.
Minister in the
N. S. W. Bavinshaw
Govern ment, wdio
praises the Labor Pre-
mier for rising above
the venomous party
spirit which has had
such harmful results
in N. S. Wales, and
for enlisting the co-
operation of the other
side in a useful “con-
centration on real
problems.” Collier
has reduced the State
income-tax, too, and
the Bavinshaws ought
to imitate him in
that respect, even if
they can’t secure the
Commonwealth grants
which helped him to
work the oracle. The
income-tax reductions
have contributed very
materially to the
brighter outlook in
Westralia.
Hon. Minister Ryan.
No more Alsatian dogs are to be im-
ported, according to a new regulation gaz-
etted by the Federal Executive Council.
This is a result of an agitation started
years ago by pastoralists fearful of the. safety
of their flocks. In the meantime, of course,
hundreds of the breed have been imported,
and it isn’t supposed that they have been
practising the teachings of Marie Stopes.
The only effect of the embargo, therefore,
will be to stop fresh arrivals, the destruction
or sterilisation of the existing animals being
a State matter, and States aren’t likely to
do anything so drastic’without being obliged
to pay compensation. This would amount
to an imposing figure. Some of the handsome
and wolf like creatures are valued at upwards
of £3OO.
Emasculation as a penalty for sexual
offences, “proposed as a Government measure
in Maorilarid, is not so foreign to British
legal notions as might be supposed. Witness
the following extract from “The Laws of
William the Conqueror,” as translated in
Kelham’s “Dictionary of the Norman or Old
French Language” (published in 1779), from
the manuscript of Ingulnhus, at one time
secretary to the Conqueror:—
19. —Concerning Rape, and an attempt on a
Woman’s Chastity,
Whoever shall forcibly defile a Woman, shall be
punished by loss of his Members ; and whoever throws
a Woman on the Ground, with an Intent to violate
her, the Mulct to the Lord is 10s. But if he defiled
her, he forfeits his Members.
Queensland needs to regulate its private-
inquiry agents. One lately described the
awful actions of a husband and a lady
whom he and the wife watched on a subur-
ban- golf links. But, unfortunately, the wife
in the witness box at an earlier stage in the
trial had said that the pair were doing noth-
ing but talking. Not even waiting to pick
up his hat the private detective scuttled out
before the Bench’s criticism got under way
properly. And a woman divorce-sleuth swore
to the identity of a young man caught in
the act, and a decree nisi was granted. In
an intervention by the Attorney-General it
was proved that at the time the young man
was at his fiancee’s in another suburb hang-
ing pictures.
It might be well to get the most objection-
able class of motorist from a new angle, and
view him, not as an utterly reckless fool,
but as a criminal who is out to do some
killing for the pleasure of the thing. A
fair sample of the tribe speeds at a great
pace by night, sometimes on the wrong side
of the road and sometimes without lights; he
kills or maims some person or persons, and
disappears; and in the morning the car (a
stolen one) is found lying round promis-
cuously. There is no reason to suppose that
he is intoxicated, especially when the early
hour of pub-closing is considered. He is just
a variant of the assault-and-battery man or
razor fiend, with the added joys of damage to
property in the shape of the car, rapid
motion and the use of an efficient weapon.
If the question is viewed from the stand-
point that thugs are abroad, the might
think up some special measures to meet the
case, but if they are efficient they won’t
be cheap.
HOGAN'S REGRET.
e
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
WHY THEY GO TO THE PACK.
Kind-hearted Hostess ( seeing old hard-up friend off): “Ah, there’s many a good man
gone to the pack.”
Her Husband ( who has been “touched,” too ): “Yes, and slipped an ace up his sleeve.”
“Arthur R.”: A novel scheme for getting
even with his boss after a reprimand was
worked by an employee at an Australian
telephone exchange recently. At two o’clock
on a cold, frosty night he called up 20
Chinamen simultaneously, and then, ringing
the boss at his home, plugged the score of
“Whaffor”-demanding Celestials on to the
line, and left the situation to develop itself.
* * * *
“13th Bn. Runner”: I think that both
“Char” (B. 8/8/’2B) and “Eromeno” (B.
15/8/’28.) are wrong in their statements that
claims for damages were ever made against
the A.I.F. for its decorative work on Salis-
bury Plain. There certainly was a rumor
early in 1919 that Lord Pembroke of Wilton
had made a successful claim for a sub-
stantial sum for damage bo his property by
the large map of Australia cut on the hillside
near Hurdcott camp. So persistent did the
story become that the Earl himself—a spick-
and-span Guards officer—took the trouble to
come over to Hurdcott camp, where, before
an audience of Diggers assembled for a
concert, he vigorously denied that such' a
claim had ever been contemplated. Further,
he gave his assurance that the map would
be carefully preserved as a permanent monu-
ment to the Australians.
* * * *
“Lily-Beale”: The old Tyrone hotel near
Coonamble (N.S.W.), the license of which
has recently been transferred to Armatree,
has associations with royalty attached to
it. When the Prince was on his way to
Wingadee station and learned that the caval-
cade was approaching a pub he cantered
ahead and ordered drinks for all hands. The
spot where the Prince stood on the occasion
of this historic shout has been permanently
marked, and the glass from which he imbibed
liis whisky has been bound with ribbon, suit-
ably inscribed and preserved in a glass case.
* * * *
“Fernie”: Maoriland, which still, as a
matter of policy, clings to Dick Seddon’s
axiom that cradles ought to be kept occupied,
is perturbed about its birth-rate. For the
year ended March last it was 20.29 per
1000 of population, the lowest ever recorded.
But that’s not all. There’s been a startling
increase in the number of kids born to
parents not in wedlock. Some critics ascribe
this to the Devil, others to H.C.L. The
proportion of still-births is slowly rising.
In the first 20 years of colonisation the birth-
rate averaged 40 to the 1000, and there is
a general feeling that something ought to
be done about all these things. But up to
date no one has come forward with a recipe.
# * * #
“Bildad”: In all this fuss about Clara
Butt’s book or the reminiscences which some-
one else wrote for her, there seems to be
something wanting. It is admittedly un-
fortunate that Dame Nellie Melba should
have been represented as advising Dame
Clara Butt to sing “muck” to the Aus-
tralians because that was their musical level,
but if it wasn’t muck it may have been
garbage or fertiliser. For my own part I
hope Clara was advised to sing fertiliser,
because it would sound original. Anyway,
I wish we had more definite information
as to what Dame Nellie did say. She. must
have said something, for silence is foreign
to her nature.
* * *• H:
“Sol Malaprop”: The rapidly moving tale
of Coffey, who made some excitement in
Sydney of late, is a complication of incon-
gruities. Coffey was reckoned a frequent
car remover and a reckless character gener-
ally, but when lie was committed for trial
some months ago he was released on bail
with the proviso that lie should report to
the police twice daily. It is recognised,
though nothing of the kind is alleged in this
case, that a criminal of the underworld type
often spends the sunny hours of bail in com-
mitting new crimes to raise money for his
defence or to improve his chances of
acquittal. On the other hand it is pointed
out that the processes of the law are slow
and that it is unfair to keep a .prisoner
locked up too long. The defendant reported
one morning, and in the afternoon it was
reported for him that he had been washed
off the rocks at Bondi and drowned. The
police might have believed the story in time
if the wanted person had had the enter-
prise to leave for remote parts and the
tenacity to stay away for life but as it
was they were sceptical, and their incredulity
about the drowning anecdote was strength-
ened by occasional glimpses of Coffey scoot-
ing around the metropolitan area in cars,
how acquired is not stated. The arrest was
finally effected after considerable shooting, in
which no one was damaged but the escapee.
It is an interesting question whether the
accused, had he got away after the shooting
episode, would have started for indefinite
parts, or whether he would have continued
to try to dodge round the metropolis in
cars till old age paralysed his activities.
It is certain, anyhow, 'that the work of the
force is increased and its usefulness re-
duced every time it has to take Coffey
twice, when once should be sufficient. Now
it is further reduced by the- detailing of
officers to watch him in hospital, lest it
should bcome necessary to take Coffey
three times.
* * * *
M.G.S.” : The crass stupidity of these danc-
ing marathons! Not to be outdone by the hale
sex, a girl of 21 shuffled about in an Elizabeth-
street (Melbourne) dancing academy from
Thursday evening till Saturday morning,
when she was taken to the hospital. The
WHAT MORE COULD A GIRL WANT?
“And how can I be sure that you’ll always love me like this?”
“Well, you can ask any of the other girls I take out.”
doctor diagnosed the case as “neurosis, blis-
tered heels and exhaustion,” and hoped her
heart wasn’t permanently affected. The
statement of one male spectator deserves to
go on record. “By 4 a.m. I could see that
Miss was going to sleep standing on
her feet. I had to force her attention, so
I said, ‘Wink one eye.’ She tried to, but both
her eyes rolled up. I said, ‘What dio six and
seven make?’ She answered ‘Ten!’ I asked
her what colored stockings she liked, and
she said, ‘Blue.’ I knew from that that
she was getting quite dopey, so I rubbed
her cheeks and forehead while she danced.”
It is nothing, of course, if a girl’s arithmetic
is rocky, but when she prefers blue hose to
flesh-colored she is obviously on the brink
of delirium tremens.
* * * *
“Eureka”: “Old Andy Watson was the
best man I ever met to cheer anyone up
when they were down in the dumps,” said
Bill reflectively. “Once I was that crook
me mates took me to
the hospital, and only
for Andy I reckon I
would have snuffed it.
He never came with-
out bringing me a
bunch of white flowers
—‘You never know
when they mighn’t
come in handy,’ he used
to say. Full of sym-
pathy Andy was. ‘By
cripes, yer look crook,
Bill,’ he’d say, ‘but
don’t worry, I’ll look
after the wife and
kids.’ Took quite a
load off my mind, that
did. Andy never left
without, telling me that
he’d come to see me
again—‘o f c ou rs e,
that’s if yer ’ere.’
Nothing seemed to
pass his notice, either.
One day I saw him
looking up and down
at the doorway.
‘Cripes, Bill,’ he said,
‘they’d have an ’ell of
. a job gettin’ a coffin out
of that door.’ And I
believe Andy would have done a bit of car-
pentering with that door for nix, if the hos-
pital people had wanted him to. Yes, he was
a dinkum mate, was Andy.”
* * * *
“Yarri”: Greasy Sam’s mates had ex-
pressed a high opinion of his pugilistic abili-
ties and Greasy was by no means sure that
they were chaffing him. He was standing
on the verandah of the Warri Warri hotel
digesting a few 'tots of Mulga rum. when
a border rider from the rabbit-proof came
in. As he stepped across the verandah,
Greasy knocked his hat off by way of intro-
ducing himself and, when the newcomer de-
manded what he meant by it, waltzed around
belligerently. “Hit me,” he said, taunt-
ingly. “Come on, hit me.” The newcomer
obliged, and Greasy shot along the verandah
on his back. He got up slowly, looking
considerably surprised. “That’s settled,
mate,” he said, soberly. “Come an’ ’ave a
drink.” “What did you pick on to me for?”
asked the man from the rabbit-proof. Greasy
wiped some blood from bis nose. “I wanted
to see if I could fight,” he replied.
* * * *
“Oran”: A romance that began through
a confusion of names culminated in a wed-
ding in a N.S.W. town the other day. Two
years ago a country girl, married to a
Sydney man, found herself forced to institute
divorce proceedings. Friends recommended
a w r ell-known lawyer who bears a not un-
common name. The wronged wife discovered
the building safely, and, noticing the name
on a legal plate, went in and was presently
interviewing the head of the concern. It
was not until the preliminaries were com-
pleted that she found she had gone to the
wrong man, and by that time it was too
late to transfer her case to the floor above
and the lawyer she had been directed to.
And as the man she selected was a wealthy
widower, who continued his interest m her
and finally induced her to marry him, she
may be excused for feeling that her error
was merely Fate’s way of taking a kindly
hand in her affairs.
* * * *
“Phil P.”: The wrecking of a launch by
a whale near Yeppoon (Q.) recalls some
collisions in which much bigger craft have
suffered. In 1820
the ship Essex was
sunk near Pitcairn
Island by a bull
sperm allegedly
over 80ft. long.
The whale’s first
onslaught carried
away a portion of
the vessel’s keel;
charging again, he
struck the star-
board bow, crush-
ing the planking,
and the ship, filling
rapidly, fell over
on her beam ends,
giving the crew
short notice to quit.
In the ’seventies
the barque King
Oscar, bound to
Sydney from
Maoriland, was so
battered by the im-
pact of a whale
that the crew could
not keep her afloat.
Years later the
barquentine Fanda
Isle, on the same
route, was rammed
with terrific force
just abaft the main-
mast and below the
water-line; being
timber-laden, she
made port, though
leaking badly. In
’Bl the schooner
Pet, Bunbury to
Adelaide, was hit
by another fighter,
50 miles south of the Leeuwin, and foun-
dered in a few minutes, the master being
the sole survivor.
* * * *
“P.X.”: Apropos the wrecking of a
Queensland launch by a whale, our First
Fleet had a very similar experience. A
middy and three sailors of the Sirius were
going up Sydney Harbor in a boat when a
whale, coming to the surface to see what
new breed of fish this was, nearly swamped
them. Next time it had the bad manners
to rise right under the, boat. Only one of
the four men got ashore.
* * Hs *
“Steve Hart”: I recall an occasion when
The Bulletin’s red cover occasioned a
lady some embarrassment and led to a
man spending a night in the lock-up. The
man had come from Brisbane to the coal-
fields at Maitland. The lady had pasted
the cover over a broken pane of glass
in her front window, and when she answered
a knock, at the door and a perfect stranger
lurched in with a “Good-night, sweetheart,”
her screams brought the neighbors, and the
scene soon shifted to the police station.
The offender explained to a J.P. next morn-
ing that where he came from a red blind
was a trade-mark; he escaped with a ten-
bob fine and a lecture on morals.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: The Administrator of New
Guinea in the tour of his domain has
been finding fresh “evidences of an ancient
civilisation.” One of these evidences is the
terracing of native gardens on the hillsides
and their irrigation by means of fltimes and
bamboo pipes. But that’s nothing to write
home about. The North Queensland abos.
were conversant with the principle of gene-
rating heat by sudden air compression—the
same that the ingenious Mr. Diesel employed
for the ignition apparatus of his excellent
engines. They used this fire-piston to light
their pipes.
•I'
“Adelaide”: A military dinner in Adel-
aide evoked a couple of Australian stories
from Governor Hore-Ruthven, himself a V.O.
of one of the Soudan wars. His job in 1910-
11 was to keep Kitchener free of inter-
viewers during the Australian visit. But one
enterprising pressman, getting inside the
defences, tackled K. of K. at the breakfast-
table ; “and,” added his Ex., “it nearly ended
my military career.” The other and meatier
yarn was of a conference in Birdwood’s dug-
out in France with the host assuring sundry
important visiting generals that the Aus-
tralians were not only good fighters, but
well-disciplined troops too. At that moment
a typical Diggei-, stripped to the waist, looked
in and shouted “Any of you blighters seen
my shovel?”
* * * ’ *
“Marloo”: One Monday morning there
arrived at Midgenbill school, under maternal
escort, eight new pupils named Johnson. The
youngest, Walter, it was explained, was
seven, and the eldest, Bridget, 13. The
others filled up the intervening spaces, some
at half-yearly intervals. The teacher’s
puzzled face suggested that some further en-
lightenment would be welcomed, and the
mother, a widow who had taken a widower
for her second mate, gave it in the fewest
possible words. “Some of ’em are his, some
of ’em are mine, and some of ’em are ours,”
was the way she put it.
A DISTINCTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Sixty-nine men who pleaded guilty to playing
two-up in an elaborately-fitted room in Surry Hills
(Sydney) were fined £2 apiece, the magistrate
remarking that the penalty would be double that
inflicted in the case of out-door ‘schools.’ ”
Brother, if kips in animated action
And bets on pence in pairs aloft that spin
Imbue you with a keener satisfaction
Than dogs careering after hares of tin,
Beneath no rooftree let your weakness shove
you,
Eschew the floors that muffling carpets
sheath,
Out to where’s nought but God’s blue sky
above you
And nothing but His good green turf be-
neath !
It isn’t more invigorating merely,
Judged from the hygienic point of view,
This heading ’em at fresco, but it’s clearly
A darned lot safer, too.
Deep draughts of oxygen will help a fellow,
Or pure ozone, Arcadian scenes amid,
In richer and more vibrant tones to bellow
His “heads a dollar” or his “tails a quid.”
The argot of the ring, the blague of ringers
Will sound less harsh upon the vagrant
breeze
Blent with the cooing notes of feathered
singers,
The chirp of crickets or the hum of bees.
Let others bid for Lady Luck’s embraces
In hand-made houses, but, though walls be
stout,
I'd liefer court her in the open spaces
When there are Johns about.
Better than bolts and bars, a posted sentry
Whose eagle eye shall range the offing
through
To chart the movements of suspicious gentry
And queer the pitch of officers in blue.
E’en if the Law should set your school
stampeding
An open chase by flood and field remains
A somewhat less invidious proceeding
• Than being pinched in yards or trapped in
lanes.
The hunted won’t monopolise the croppers,
Escape will add a keener zest to sport.
On with the game! Up with the whirling
coppers!
(And d —n the other sort!)
Brother, if heading ’em’s your pet diversion,
Its lure intrigues you and its charm
enthrals.
Stand fast against persuasion or coercion _
To take your pleasure within cramping
walls.
Hit for the open road, the friendly timber,
The stretches by the strand that waves
caress,
And even if you find police more limber
Of leg when trouble comes, ’twill cost you
less.
Before the Cadi hauled, a couple o’ jim it
Will mean if pence beneath a roof you
spin,
But if the sky is, so to speak, your limit
A pound will purge your sin.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“T.R.H.”: Some surprise is expressed
that the police should have overlooked the
small file which enabled Brendon Parker to
make liis escape from Darlinghurst on a
recent morning. But the kind of file used
for sawing through bars—l once saw one
that had been used in old Melbourne gaol—
is smaller than a fine-tooth comb and as thin
as a safety-razor blade. To conceal such
an implement is not a matter of much
difficulty in these days of cuff-bottomed pants
and coats with hugely-padded shoulders.
Police “searching” is seldom thorough except
when stolen property is being sought, and a
man who is brought direct from gaol (even
if lie has been on remand) is seldom, if
ever, searched at all at a police station.
* * * *
“Oxmead” : The bard who broke into song
on the prolific theme of “Smith” (B.
8,/8/’2B) surely omitted the member of the
multitudinous tribe who looms largest in the
world’s eye at present and seeks to fly
higher than any aviator, viz., the Democrats’
candidate for the U.S. Presidency. If a
Smith can elbow his way into the White
House, there won’t be much left for the
clan to achieve in the matter of elective
honors. And the commonness of the name,
even if it is no asset, should be no dis-
ability. Certainly no U.S. President has
ever yet been named Smith, or Brown, or
Jones, or Robinson. Still there has been a
Wilson in quite recent times, a Harrison
(twice), a Jackson and a Johnson.
* * * *
“Kerys”: One of the institutions in out-
back Maoriland used to be the travelling den-
tist, wdio visited, certain villages periodically
to pull, fill, file and generally put in order
the teeth of the community. All the youth
of the village used to parade for the occa-
sion, and intermingled with unwilling small
boys and girls were burly farmhands and
flax-cutters seeking molar relief. Often
the dentist hired a room at the local hotel,
but as the nature of his calling made him
an unpopular guest he sometimes took pos-
session of the station waiting-room and plied
his calling there. Thus it came about that
LOOKING BACKWARDS.
“You’ve met a lot o’ worse fellows than I am — now, haven’t you?”
“I don’t know — I’m just trying to think.”
while a city-bound train was quietly waiting
at the station one Saturday afternoon a
fearful commotion arose in the waiting-room.
Shrieks and • frenzied shouts rent the air,
followed by the smashing of a window’, and
tw"o hurtling forms emerged on the platform
in locked embrace. Added to the uproar
were the yells of the train passengers and
onlookers, and the guard and the station-
master butted in apparently to help separate
the combatants. As the women in the train
screamed to the interveners to secure the
revolver and release the victim, the train
whistled and departed. It was a bored
stationmaster who spent the next half-hour
shouting down the station telephone that it
wasn’t a murder and he didn’t want any
police assistance. It was merely old Blank
from over the river having a tooth out. And
that hardy old pioneer, sitting up and preen-
ing himself after his first dental experience,
dusted his ancient hat with his elbow and
cheered the exhausted dentist with a kindly
“Ye did verra weel, laddie! I’ll liae anither
oot next time ye come. But I winna pay ye
till I see hoo ye monage the next one.”
* * * *
“Salambo”: Among the relics of Bishop
Selwyn’s 70-year-old Cathedral library—now
lying* in the Auckland University College for
the use of medical students taking their final
year —is Samuel Cooper’s
“Dictionary of Practical Sur-
gery” (1825). It was a text-
book frequently consulted by
the Bishop in the early days.
In it may be found copious
illustrations of amputations
and other operations per-
formed by the author without
anesthetics at Brussels on the
day after Waterloo. Cooper
describes the removal of a leg
as “an operation at once ter-
rible to bear and dreadful to
behold,” and severely rates
contemporary surgeons for
“their carelessness, slovenly
habits and want of dexterity
in handling the knife.” Some
of the other scientific treat-
ises levied upon (presum-
ably) by Bishop Selwyn go
back to the eighteenth cen-
tury, including “Lectures on
Diet,” by Dr. Willjch, phy-
sician to the Saxon Embassy
at the Court of Great Britain
(1799), and “Medical Essays
and Observations” (1742).
These books arrived in
Maoriland in 1860, the gift
of William Piers Ormerod, a
young English surgeon who
was prevented by his un-
timely death from carrying
out his intention of going to
the South Seas as a medical
missionary under Bishop Selwyn. He left his
books, instruments and the sum of £650 to
he devoted to the benefit of Maoriland and
its missions.
* * * *
“Jacques”: Sydney glaziers will never be
short of work while the Tramway Depart-
ment mends its tracks with loose blue-metal.
A Marrickville alderman mentioned the other
night that 33 shop windows had been broken
in a week in that suburb through this metal
being hurled up by motor vehicles.
* * # *
“Atherton”: Speaking of queer drinks,
there was a mysterious decoction that gave
Government Resident Jardine a lot of trouble
in the early days of Somerset (Q.). Regularly
on Saturday nights the marines and water
police would abandon themselves to the plea-
sures of intoxication, and as Jardine was
always expecting a massed attack by the
natives on the isolated settlement this intem-
perance annoyed him. Vainly he threatened
delinquents with the triangle lashed to the
broad-leafed tree facing the tiny beach ; the
Saturday night orgies still continued. Vainly
the Government cutter w'as despatched to
scour the near-by islands for an illicit still.
Jardine could never solve the mystery, but
years later it transpired that the rum-runner
was an old renegade who inhabited a cave
on Albany Island right opposite the settle-
ment. There he compounded his hard tack,
a simple brew of cocoanut-milk and molasses’
“pepped” with a chewed-up plug of trade
tobacco, and brought it over to his customers
in a dinghy by night. The marines called it
“alligators’ milk,” presumably from the jim-
jams for which it was responsible. Jardine,
walking the verandah at headquarters and
suspiciously watching the marines’ barracks,
never dreamed what the cocoanuts held,
* * * *
“Avon”: The Salv’army has decided to
mark the opening of new barracks in Auck-
land by holding a day of mourning for the
sins of that city. Thousands of William
Booth’s disciples, with a big preponderance
of women, will parade the streets in black
robes on August 31, singing dirges, and in
the evening Commissioner Hay will detail the
iniquities of those who dwell on the shores
of the Waitemata. While not quite so wow-
serish as Dunedin, or as quiet as Christ-
church, Auckland is so far removed from
being a modern Gomorrah and so inured to
melancholy processions that the proceedings
are unlikely to attract much attention. The
last effort of the kind in the Shivery Islands
occurred over a quarter of a century ago,
when the zealous and impetuous vicar of the
CENSORED.
“It’ll be all right for you to read this one, Gran.; there’s nothing in it you oughtn’t
to know.”
most fashionable Christchurch church tried
to organise a surpliced and cross-bearing
throng to march three times round Lancaster
Park on Good Friday in condemnation
of a cycling-race meeting that was being
held there on the sacred day. The procession
didn’t process. Either the vicar failed to
get a following, or the Bishop put his foot
down.
* * ■ * #
“Lao-dah”: There is a very sorry ex-
Indian army officer in Victoria. He was one
of those who came to Australia under the
Government settlement scheme which was
the subject of a recent commission. He
abandoned his block of 1425 acres at Hamil-
ton lately, leaving a total indebtedness be-
hind him of £3873. To test the assertions
that blocks had been overvalued the depart-
ment put his selection up for auction. It
fetched £6911. In other words, if the late
owner had auctioned it himself he could
have paid off his debt to the Government
and put £3038 in his pouch as well.
* * * *
“Wigan”: Another yarn on the subject
of Lancashire clogs (B. l/8/’2B) concerns
a Cockney who had deserted the music of
Bow Bells for that of the mill blowers
in Manchester. Early on his first morning
he was roused from his slumbers by a thun-
derous and unceasing “cloppety-clop” on the
cobbled street below his window. Rising
from his bed, he called anxiously down the
stairs to his landlady, “ ’Ere, wot’s that?”
Answered the dame, busy making up the
“baggins” for her own family; “Nowt but
t’ operatives gannin’ t’ t’ mills.” “Blime,”
said the Londoner enviously, “they must
make plenty of money ’ere, all goin’ on ’orse-
back.”
* * * *
“Let Go”: Perhaps the most thorough
and effective piece of camouflage in the
war was that staged by Allenby in the
Jordan Valley prior to the final advance that
settled Abdul’s hash. To fool the Turkish
’planes and enable him to move his troops
away to the coastal sector without raising
suspicion, dummy camps and horse lines
were erected. At nights tents, were put up,
and blankets thrown over wooden frames to
resemble lines of cavalry horses. To com-
plete the fake, each day a battalion or two
of infantrymen were marched down the
Jerusalem- road into the valley, and at night
transported back to their camp by motor
lorries. The bustle on the Dead Sea front
gave the Turks the impression that the
forthcoming attack was to be launched from
that sector, and how completely they had
been duped was made manifest when the real
attack began.
* * * *
“Mulgo” : . The Fair Rents Court hasn’t
had any business in my street yet. The rule
there is for the property-owner to get all
he can. Not long ago a landlady advertised
a fairly-old place that had been renovated
“to be let at ten o’clock on Saturday.” A
little after that hour, when a crowd had
gathered, a man mounted a soap-box and
said: “Now, thlen, ladies and gentlemen, set
her going. The best offer takes it.” The
owner’s aunt started the bidding at 305..
and helped to run it up to 455. At that
rental it was knocked down to two families
who explained afterwards that 225. 6d. a
week was as much as each of them could
afford for half a house.
* * * *
“Selma”: The -way of the up-country
school-teacher is deadly hard at times. Re-
cently a girl had in her “sole charge”
school the only child of the wealthiest
and most unbearable man in the dis-
trict, a hefty and thoroughly spoiled young-
ster whose doting parents considered he
could do no wrong. After enduring the
youth’s impertinence some weeks she one
day seized him and chastised him soundly.
That evening she was walking homewards
when two excited children called to her to
run for her life, and after a hasty glance
backwards she decided the advice was good.
She was fortunately young and athletic, but
the outraged parent, flourishing his tea-tree
club in the background, was a good sprinter
for liis 50 years. Half-way home the teacher
decided to seek safety in the parsonage, but
after running screaming round the house
twuce, hotly pursued, she realised the place
was empty, and the chase up the main street
continued. All the village came out to see
the excitement, but the club was a powerful
deterrent to interference. It was a close
finish, but the teacher just managed to gain
the shelter of her boarding-house. The bel-
ligerent one then playfully smashed a couple
of windows, put the boarding-lnouse gate out
of action and swaggered home, while the
teacher sat down and wrote to the Education
Board giving them the choice of a removal
or her resignation.
* * * *
“Warby” : Few persons would credit Vic.
Railway Commissioner Clapp with being a
sentimentalist. Yet the other day the
hard-boiled preacher of economy. paid £8 for
two pieces of the dinner service used on
the train that carried the Duke of York and
his missus about Victoria.
* * # *
“Counsel” : The medco-feminist deputation
which urged the Attorney-General of Queens-
land, to “prohibit newspapers reporting, in
any form whatever, cases of sexual crimes"
was on sound ground in at least one sense.
After vanity, the criminal’s outstanding
characteristic is imitativeness. The world
would be staggered to know the number of
frightful crimes which were perpetrated
chiefly because a pioneer degenerate blazed
the way. And of all varieties of crimes those
which tend most to be imitated are homo-
sexual offences, and offences against women
and children. The police in the great Euro-
pean cities will often connive at the dis-
appearance of a pervert against whom they
have a perfectly good case, because they know
that a flock of similar crimes would result
from the advertisement which his conviction
would give his abberration.
* * * *
“Meteren”: Near Hazebrouk our officers
held a wild dinner to celebrate the promotion
of one of them, and, well after lights-out,
their boozy choruses told they were making
a welter of it. A board of inquiry in our
billet decided they had more liquor than was
good for them, and that steps should be taken
to remedy the excess. The surplus store
was soon located in a convenient possy just
inside the mess door, and after that things
happened rapidly. Standing in the dark out-
side the mess, one of the raiders gave the
air-raid warning, with “Douse your lights,
Fritz is up.” The lamps went out, half the
whisky disappeared, and in our billet we con-
tinued the toasts, whilst the revellers sang
in the dark waiting for the “All clear.”
P.S.—We did a long route march next day
with full pack aboard.
* * * *
The Melbourne Club, like the Sydney
Union, has been considering wdtli frank re-
vulsion the painful step of amalgamating
with a formerly despised rival. Finance—
rising rates and taxes, and a diminishing in-
clination to join amongst the Victorian young
—is of course to blame. As a result of
the boom in motoring, golfing and week-end-
ing the modern city club, has become little
more than a luncheon resort. And, awing to
the boom in temperance, the modern clubman
does not drink on the same profitable lines as
his forebears did. The slump in social clubs
is world-wide. Quarter of a century ago
the Bachelors’ Club was one of the most de-
sirable institutions of the* sort in England.
The other day it was only saved from amalga-
mation with the Wellington, a few hundred
yards further west, by heroic financial sacri-
fices on the part of a few wealthy members.
* * * *
“P.M.” There is a small country school in
Gippsland wdth an attendance of Jo. made
up of the families of four brothers. The
old lady on whose property the school is
built is the grandmother of every kid in
the school.
* * * *
“Meteren”: Coal was scarcer than rum
during our winter on the Somme, and many
were the ruses adopted to keep the hut-
fires burning. Once we were so desperate
that we organised a night raid on a guarded
coal-dump, and were filling up our sand-
bags when the sentry stumbled right on to
us. We had visions of cold steel, or a night
in the clink at the least, but our luck was
in. The sentry, himself a Digger, clamped
his rifle down on the duckboards and opened
out. “What’s the flamin’ use of me being on
guard over the dump if you thieving cows
pinch the stuff under my nose? Give us a
fair go and wait till I’m down the other end,
or I’ll turn out the guard on you!”
IN MARTIN-PLACE
w
N.s.w.
A. SMITH.


Q a scspTo|lo^oG/2, ni
coin* "«or to°£
~.o>Yy
PVERY conceivable
shade, in harmony
with Fashion’s latest
creations is available
in Hosiery by Tresti&e.
Their original Fully
Fashioned Hose, essent-
ial to the wardrobe of
the modern woman of
fashion,is recognized as
an aristocrat
fine ''D'D'D
18/n
'^ r O 800, a new Fully
~ Fashioned creat-
ion embodying all the
unrivalled qualities of
the better line, with a
fine super mercerised
top, heel and toe, so
skilfully designed that
even with the lowest
cut shoes and the short-
est skirt nothing but
pure silk meets the eye.
14/ll
FULLY
FASHIONED


Where Perfect Cuisine, Beautiful
Surroundings and the Spirit of
Revelry Combine to Make a
Memorable Evening’s Enjoyment.
Come Soon :: Come To-night.
You’ll be glad you came.
MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY,
THURSDAY, FRIDAY.
DINNER DE LUXE, 7.30 12/6
SUPPER, from 10 o’clock 8/6
SATURDAY-
LATE NIGHT OF DISTINCTION.
A Superb Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
Special Supper, 10 o’clock .. 12/6
True Relaxation, Substituting Joy and Delight,
DELIGHTFUL TEA DANSANT, WITH
SPARKLING CABARET,
3 to 5, 4/-; 6 up, 3/6.
Saturday, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
Have You Made Your Will?
It is the duty of every man who has the welfare of his wife and children
at heart to make a Will. But the making of a Will, alone, does not safe-
guard the future of those dependent on him. He needs as an Executor
one who has a knowledge of the duties involved, who will not die, or
speculate, and who will devote his whole time and attention to his work.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
has for over 40 years acted as Executors and Trustees, and during this
period the Company has managed all classes of Estate.
Our interesting Booklet, telling you of the advantages to be derived by
appointingthis Company as your Executor, will be sent post free on request.
J. W. Barnes, Manager.
E. V. T. Whittle, Asst. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
HOTEL SYDNEY
Management: Edward T. Cheeseman.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel.
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
Throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
80ft- above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from 19/6
Bed and Breakfast from 13/-
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines).
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Ages of some Australian authors:—
J. H. M. Abbott 54, Arthur 11. Adams 56, Prof.
Angus (Syd.) 47, medico-knight James Barrett 66,
Dr. H. Basedow 47, Chas. E. W. Bean 49, Chas. A.
Bernays (Q’land Parliamentary historian) 66, Prof.
It. J. Berry (Melb.) 61, Rev. Frank Boreham 57,
E. J. Brady 59, Prof. Brereton (Syd.) 57, Roy
Bridges 43, Dr. Jethro Brown 60, naturalist Harry
Burrell 55, Rev. Jas. Colwell 68, Prof. Edgeworth
David 70, C. J. Dennis 52, Edward Dyson 63, C.
Brunsdon Fletcher 69, Frank Fox (in. Eng.) 54,
R. R. Garvan 61, Littleton Groom 61, W. Gosse
Hay 53, Benj. Hoare 86, Fred Johns 60,
Arthur Jose 65, Geo. H. Knibbs 70, Prof. Mungo
MacCallum 74, Prof. Ronald Macintyre 65, Major-
Gen. Kenneth Mackay 69, Rev. Dr. John Mathew 77,
Prof. Walter Murdoch (W.A.) 54, and Bernard
O’Dowd 62.
That fine old journalist T. W. Heney.
who, until illness prevented him in the
closing days, was a judge on The Bulle-
tin Prize Novel Competition, died at
Springwood, Blue Mountains, on Sunday
night. He himself wrote two novels, “The
Girl at Birrell’s” and “A Station Court-
ship,’’ and lie also had a volume of verse
to his credit. In his time he edited three
city dailies, the S. M. Herald, Sydney
Telegraph and Brisbane Telegraph, and
he worked on or for half a dozen others.
As well as having rare literary skill, and
being a graceful and polished writer, he was
a good critic, and was the S. M. Herald’s
book reviewer before he went up to the edi-
torial chair. He was born in Sydney in
1862.
George Broadbent, whose firm makes the
maps most Vic. motorists carry in their
door-pockets, gets his information. about the
roads in a practical fashion. He pedals a
push-bike over them— and he is 63!
“Tallama”: Now helping to mould young
Australians at the Eastwood (N.S.W.) semi-
nary for the Vincentian Order of priests is
Father Slattery, the pioneer of practical wire-
less in Australia. His early wireless experi-
ments were conducted when he was science
master at St. Stanislaus College, Bathurst;
lie sent messages from the college to the
tower of the Cathedral, a flag being waved
every time a message was received.
TV hen Gifford Sherman Reade, an elderly
Englishman domiciled in Maoriiand, a little
time back gave £1,000,000 to found a naval
school in Suffolk (Eng.), he brought down
upon him demands from all the charitable
organisations in the Shivery Isles. To these
he has replied that in giving the million he
lias parted with most of his substance, in-
cluding his ancestral estate of 850 acres,
and has reserved for his personal use only
£lOOO per annum. For the past nine years,
in fact, Reade has been conserving his income
in the interests of the nation. A fair slice
of the thousand reserved for himself goes to
pay the expenses of his favorite pastime,
deep-sea angling.
Hunter’s Hill (Sydney) is losing an old
identity. Nobody knows where Black Lucy
came from, and only a guess can be made
of her age. Years ago the residents realised
that the solitary abo. woman in their midst
was something unique, and a public subscrip-
tion provided her with a cottage, which, upon
her death, was to be sold for the benefit of
the Children’s Hospital. Now the solitary
old lady, living on almost incredibly, has
become too feeble to look after herself,
and has been shifted to a place where she
can have attention. To the very last she
protested against being removed from her
property.
Sydney lost one of its little-known rich
men the other day; yet he should have been
well known, for he was quite remarkable.
A Russian Jew, Michael Louis was taken to
New York as a youngster and was brought
up in the poorest part of the Bowery. Com-
ing to Australia his first job was as a tailor’s
machinist; after that he was hawker, store-
keeper at Crookwell, wool and skin buyer
and station owner. Of late years he had
been one of the largest buyers of wool for
resale in Australia. At the start of the war
he plunged in diamonds, reckoning that ex-
change would be difficult and that diamonds
would be handy in international settlements.
He made a nice dry bit that way, too. En-
tirely without education, he was neverthe-
less a good talker, and as hard a hand at a
deal as any of his tribe that ever came out
of Russia.
Sir William Furse, who arrived in Syd-
ney in the Niagara as head of the British
Empire Forestry Commission, is the former
KATHARINE SUSANNAH PRICHARD (Mrs. Throssell). of Westralia, winner of a
First Prize (£500) in The Bulletin's Story Competition. Her serial, of supreme
merit and interest, is called “Coonardoo,” and the first chapters of it will be
printed in an enlarged Bulletin on September 5.
Army Council member who performed the
miracle of bringing London’s Imperial In-
stitute to life. When he took charge a few
years ago it was well and truly dead.
People used to say it was the best place in
the kingdom in which to commit a murder;
the corpse would not be discovered for years.
Now it is, if not crowded daily, at least
well patronised. One explanation is that
Furse is persona grata at Court, and so is
able to get the King, Queen and other royal-
ties to visit the Institute at short intervals;
but above all he has improved it out of sight
on the spectacular side. He comes of a
family of artists (one brother was an emi-
nent painter and another an equally eminent
sculptor), and he lias applied his hereditary
gifts to the reorganisation of the different
Dominion “Halls.” The Maoriiand Hall is
the gem of the collection.
Had a 90th birthday lately, Samuel Ben-
son, of Adelaide, with a remarkable career
to look back upon. Irish born in 1838;
Perth in 1852; messenger under Governor
Fitzgerald; in the police force during the
escaping-convict days ; mounted policeman in
Victoria in the early ’sixties, at Benalla and
Mansfield, where he pursued the bushranger
Morgan; back in the West at the infant
Cossack and Camden Harbor settlements,
where he experienced a murderous attack by
natives; permanent orderly at Government
House, Adelaide, under the Governors from
Daly onwards; special orderly to the visiting
Duke of Edinburgh, and keeper of the Gov-
ernment offices in Adelaide for 25 years.
Then, after nearly 50 years of public serivce,
another quarter-century (not out) in retire-
ment at Glenelg.
“Coot” : P. J. Brandt is not the only Mel-
bourne citizen to erect his own tombstone
(B. l/8/’2B). Two old men of Hawthorn
built elaborate tombs on adjoining graves in
the Box Hill cemetery, and had their names
engraved thereon. One died a few months
back, and occupies his sepulchre ; the other
is still going strong.
Charles Lyons, who passed out at the
Melbourne Hospital the other day, was offi-
cially aged 107. Until a.few days before his
death he was spry enough to negotiate the
city traffic by himself. Lyons was born in
Sweden and went to sea at an early age.
Am far as is known Voronoff was not respon-
sible for his longevity, though an old age
spent in gardening may have had something
to do with it.
“Uramao” : In addition to fighting in the
Maoriiand wars, Father Bucas, of Rock-
hampton (Q.), mentioned recently in The
Bulletin, fought with the Zouaves against
Garibaldi when the latter wrested the Papal
States from the Pope. He acquired such
a mastery over the Maori language that when
he went to Queensland he coached Sir George
Bowen in brown brother’s lingo to such good
purpose that when Bowen arrived as M.L.’s
Governor he was able to address his subjects
in their own language and sing their songs.
Alfred Lowenstein, the Belgian financier,
who is suspected of having leapt from his
private ’plane into the English Channel and
of having taken poison beforehand, always
did things on the sensational scale. He
did not have mere special trains like other
plutocrats; lie kept a fleet of aeroplanes
for himself and his retainers. When he
went to London he reserved an entire floor
at Claridge’s—-the same accommodation as
was provided for King Amanullah and his
wife and their suite. His stables in Leices-
tershire, where he occasionally hunted, and
his string of thousand-guinea thoroughbreds
were the envy of the Royal princes who
lodged near by at Melton, and could not
afford such luxuries. Lowenstein was a
small, dark, dapper man in Savile-row clothes
who looked 40, but might have been 50. In
the upshot he appears to have been a kind of
Protean Whitaker Wright, or Montague Tigg,
but at one stage of his career he was in
treaty to lend the French Government 10
millions sterling, and there is no doubt that
lie was in a position at the time to do it.
He died in comparative penury; a paltry
£8,000,000 is all that will be available for
his widow and son.
Tom Day, who died in Sydney the other
day at 53, was one of the best known of
Queensland journalists and one of the most
kind-hearted. A . Maorilander, he was a
school-teacher for some years, and after a
spell in Sydney went bo Bananaland and
became a prominent Laborite; he was for a
while secretary for the Queensland waterside
workers. After a term as managing editor
of Brisbane Truth, he edited the Towers
Telegraph. Later he rejoined Truth, and
passed thence to edit Brisbane Sun and
afterwards the Daily Mail.
Guy Ross Madden, who passed out the
other day at his Toorak (Melbourne) home,
was the only son of Chief Justice and Lieut.-
Gov. John Madden, who died a little more
than a decade ago. A member of the firm
of Woolcott and Madden, solicitors, he
served in the war with the British army. He
left two daughters, so there is no one in the
direct line to carry on the name the Knight
of made famous. Three uncles have
died in recent years—-Frank, ex-Speaker of
the Vic. Assembly; Walter, ex-Minister for
Lands; and Henry, who was identified with
the remount trade with India.
The strained condition of Celestial politics
raised a mild echo in Melbourne when Mr.
On arrived there the other day with a man-
date to take over the Chinese Consulate Gen-
eral from its present incumbent, Ouei, who is
due to go on leave. On was appointed by
Peking, and the thought that it might have
had the giving of the job apparently raised
the ire of Nanking, which ordered Ouei to
remain. On is not a newcomer; he has been
11 years in Australia, and has reared a
numerous family. Ouei comes of a man
darin family, and his father was a poet—
but most mandarins write poetry.
Mrs, Fred McCubbin, who lias died in Mel-
bourne, was the fa,vorite model of her late
husband, and he introduced her into several
pictures which were purchased for national
collections. “The Wallaby Track,” in the
Sydney Art Gallery; “The Bush Burial,” in
the Geelong; and “The Pioneers,” in the
Melbourne, are all memorials to the lady.
The Father of South Australian politics,
the ancient Andy Kirkpatrick, has passed on
after 80 years of useful life. Andy, a printer
by trade, was chairman of the South Aus-
tralian United Labor Party and other organi-
sations, including for a term the Trades and
Labor Council. He first got into politics
as M.L.C. for the Southern district in 1891,
and he acted as Agent-General in London
for five years from 1909, breaking into Eng-
lish politics at the end of his term as M.P.
for Newcastle. In 1918 he returned and
was re-elected to the S.A. Legislative Coun-
cil. One of his points of pride was his
mother’s association with Florence Nightin-
gale in her work in the Crimea.
Father Clancy, of Innisfail (N.Q.), who
has just built a £50,000 church which the
Apostolic Delegate blessed and opened, has
spent most of the past half-century in the
town. One mountain near by is called after
him. and the most inaccessible parts of
the hinterland have been explored by him.
Also he is a high authority on sugar-cane
growing. He came from Limerick.
Lately deceased Charley Oakes was not
the first of the clan to be prominent in
N.S.W. politics. George Oakes, M.L.A. for
Parramatta, was a fighter in his day, and
on one ocasion starred in an encounter in
the Maoquarie-street barn. lie was the first
man killed by the Sydney trams. The
original Oakes came to Australia to evan-
gelise it, but became head constable in Parra-
matta. The billet was previously held by
the notorious Barrington, who wrote:
All patriots we, for be it understood
We left our country for our country’s good.
The übiquitous Australian again ! Kenya
Colony’s Chief Commissioner of Police was,
until recently, F. D. Tyssen, of Melbourne.
He went off to fight Oom Paul in 1892, and
after that job was done, like many of his
mates, he prospected in Africa. He now
enjoys a pension at Nairobi, the 5000-feet
high capital of the ex-German possession. A
brother is vicar of St. George’s C. of E.,
Malvern, Victoria.
VIVE LA FRANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The ribbons on the khaki tunic fade;
The roses of her cheeks take deeper shade;
She glances at her sturdy Aussie sons,
And dreaming hears the thunder of the guns.
In fancy far ahead she sees, perchance,
Them in their manhood strike a blow for
France.
Ah ! Vive la France! Her soul goes out to
France.
The years have sped since first she turned
her eyes
Across the seas to newer, bluer skies,
And to strange lands, whence came the
lean-jawed man
Who won her heart, whilst war’s fell
current ran,
And helped to give her land deliverance,
Whose kinsmen died for England and for
France.
Ah! Vive la France! How well they fought
for France!
The ships at anchor slowly rise and fall.
“Ah, noble ships!” she says, “I love them
all.
The world is sane once more; they make it
plain.
Oh for a glimpse,” she sighs, “of France
again.”
Dull longing in her eyes the tears enhance,
“Australia is grand,” she says, “but France!
My France is beautiful. Ah! Vive la
France!”
Her thoughts run back. She knows that
vine and tree
Are clothed in summer dress aci-oss the sea,
And buds are bursting where the war has
been.
Where graves lie side by side, the grass is
green.
And poppies l’ise in dainty elegance
Above brave men who fought and fell in
France.
Ah! Vive la France! They bravely died
for France.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


I He promised Lev ail ske
desired; and perkaps \yl
k<z.
mcani it
■ COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA..
" Sadly die realized
sk«z, cost and iked k- 2 -
kad «ow /o
Her
"■IW J.idL nol notice W *rvWmg into ft**. 'k^r.ts
cy 4 ' ike Lyre Liras *
Facing ike position courageously, k<z oiled
in ikuz. necessary assistance -
He Had ike aav <sf~ one wko
IS Consumat wifi\ -a
passion to make. HiS
Courilry better, purer,
Happier
' Sad h.«xsel/ wezorily on
ike slepS ikougki
o/ 1 ike greet city it was /y
destined, some day. to be .
''He was ad I !
last taking t
his part irv building up one sizzle •
THE PRIZE NOVEL COMPETITION.
Reason illustrates a few purple patches from his own Greatest Australian Novel.


©
i
m
,I'lF
9-1
eijfl
llril
■sata
Frigidaire is also a General
Motors Product, and, like
Delco-Light, it is dependable.
Frigidaire creates its own cold
and makes ice cubes for table
use.
Frigidaire is one of the city
conveniences that Delco-Light
makes possible in homes far
removed from electric supplies.
LIGHTING system may be cheap to buy
economical in operation, silent running,
and beautiful in appearance, and yet if it
lacks but one quality—dependability—it
will be regarded as a failure. It matters little to an
owner whether the cause of the plant failure is small
or large; he is justly annoyed. He rightly expects to
have electricity available 24 hours each day and 365
days each year.
Delco-Light possesses all the desirable qualities set
out above, but above all it is dependable. The key-
note of Delco-Light design was simplicity—from its
inception—and much time and money has been spent
in research, having for its object the elimination or
simplification of the parts which are apt to give trouble
in an ordinary plant.
Many Delco-Light plants installed in 1917 are still
giving excellent service; some of them under the most
adverse conditions, where failure is fraught with
serious consequences. These plants have saved their
cost many times over and are proofs of the longevity,
efficiency and, we repeat, the dependability of
Delco-Light.
You, the buyer of to-day, are purchasing an article which has stood the
supreme test —the test of time!
To-day there are over a quarter of a million Delco-Light users over-
whelming evidence of the Superiority of Delco-Light.
The engine is of the 4-cycle, air-cooled, valve-in-head type, runs on
kerosene, is direct connected to the generator, and is self-cranking.
The dynamo is a 4-pole shunt-wound machine operating as a compound-
wound motor when cranking the engine.
Tudor Type Plante Batteries are standard equipment
with Delco-Light Plants. Tudor Batteries are the invari-
able choice of Central Station engineers.
There are 25 Delco-Light Models, one of which will suit your needs.
Send for Full Particulars as contained in Booklet B .
DELCO - LIGHT
Product of General Motors
DISTRIBUTORS:
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 307-15 Kent Street, Sydney.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
STEWART & MACLEAN PTY., LTD., 104 George Street, Launceston.


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ADFIELDS
AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS —DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadflelds’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and l Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Foundries J Bassendean, Berth. W.A.
Branch { 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office j T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
•Tritori'Electric
Central Hot Water
With this system hot water is obtained immediately
at any hour of day or night by merely turning on
the hot-water tap for the bath, shower, wash-basin,
kitchen sink, and wash troughs respectively. The
heater itself is in the loft, and the necessary pipe-
line is run to the various draw-off points. The system is
absolutely hygienic—no dirt, no fuel used, no matches,
no smell or smoke or poisonous fumes. Saves tremen-
dous labor, and the consumption of electricity is so
moderate that the system soon pays for itself in the
economies it effects. The “Triton” System is covered
by a two years’ guarantee against electrical defect.
Full Particulars from, the Manufacturers and Patentees:
THQS. ABBOTT & CO.,
13a Hardware Street, Melbourne. ’Phone F 4042.
Cr. Wynyard and Margaret Lanes, Sydney; 111 Tara-
naki St., Wellington, N.Z. Agencies — A. C. Clarke,
112 Gawler Place, Adelaide, S.A.; Harris, Scarfe and
Sandover, Ltd., Perth, W.A.; W. H. Knight and Peter
Bros., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston; James Campbell
and Sons, Ltd., Brisbane.
mW:
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Grand Opeia
royal “The Sllent H ° use „
Criterion “Other Men’s Wives
Palacb (com. Saturday) . . “The Luck °f the Navy
Empire “.Mother Macree’’ and Models
Tivoli Vaudeville
Regent Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “Hit the DecU
royal “The Pats^,
New Comedy “ Th , e ,„Si gh^
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic' V.V.V.'.V.V.. Moving Pictures
jj oyt > s Moving Pictures
♦—
The masculine honors of the dramatic
“Andrea Chenier” lie at least as much with
Gerard as with the ostensible hero; and,
at Thursday night’s performance Apollo
Granforte was superb. He overshadowed
Francesco Merli, who, for all his vocal ex-
cellences, was stiff-legged in action. Sca-
vizzi, as usual, was remarkably effective,
and admirable support was rendered by Gor-
rado Zambelli, Luigi Cilia, Antonio Gelli
as II Sanculotto Matthiew, Ida Mannarini
and Carmen Tornari. Bavagnoli s manage-
ment of the large-sized orchestral contribu-
tions earned frequent plaudits, and the
chorus work has been excelled in no more
than two or three of the productions. Nevm
Tait for once shared the stage honors.
Having inadvertently walked between the
iron gate of the Tribunal of Public Safety
and the backcloth, and suddenly realising
that his dress-suited figure was visible, he
doubled across as if a fresh outburst. of
revolutionary hate, specially directed against
entrepreneurs who talk about running grand
opera at a loss, had broken out behind him.
* * * *
“Trovatore” comes next Saturday, and
“The Tales of Hoffmann” next Tuesday.
“L’Amore dei Tre Re,” Bizet’s “Carmen”
and three one-act operas of Puccini will
complete the repertoire for the Sydney
season.
* V V
There will be a special appeal to the liter-
ary in the production at the Newtown
Majestic on Saturday next of Schiller’s
“The Robbers.” Alfred Gordon Kalmikoff
has made his own translation of the classic
for the occasion.
* * V
“Other Men’s Wives,” produced at the
Sydney Criterion on Saturday, being a
CARMEN TORNARI, mezzo-soprano with the
Grand Opera Company—her second time on
this part of the earth.
sparkling comedy, the murder upon which the
plot is built has to be committed off-stage,
the only visible evidences being a blood-
stained handkerchief handled by the hotel
waiter, and the agitation of the human
characters. As the waiter and the supposed
hotel manager, both obviously bogus persons,
make off in Anthony Peel’s car, matters are
awkward for Peel and the harmlessly flirta-
tious Mrs. Angela Worthing, who have
stolen a motor-ride together; to dodge prob-
able trouble with her husband she is rele-
gated to the rOle of lady’s maid, whilst the
English girl who has been posing as the
hotel maid, assumes the role of Mrs. Anthony
Peel, and lies artistically during three acts.
Meantime an English detective probes for
information, being more concerned about the
discovery of a chain of diamonds which will
help his client to get a divorce than the
capture of any murderer. There is a rapid
succession of dramatic situations and adroit
escapes, until the arrival qf Angela’s husband
accompanying the English detective’s client
brings a satisfactory conclusion. Margaret
Bannerman, as the accomplished liar, a girl
struggling all through to hide her apprehen-
sive agitation under the cloak of vivacity
and ultimately revealing a noble motive for
all her conduct, makes the best possible
use of the best opportunity she lias
so far been given in Sydney. Francis
Lister is a believable Anthony Peel,
and Edgar Norfolk a weighty divorce detec-
tive. As Angela Worthing, Lily Titheradge
is passable. Amongst the others Noel Dain-
ton is responsible for some good silent work
as a gendarme sentimentally affected by the
proximity of a supposedly newly-married
couple.
* *
“Sonia of the Circus,” a recent American
success which William Russell impinged
upon his season of old-time melodrama at
the Sydney Grand Opera House on Satur-
day night, is a real play with a real plot.
"Slick” Gar son, manager of one of the
tent shows of Big Boss Attell, cherishes the
ambition - of making a lawyer of his son
Danny, but the youth perversely joins the
circus. The previously hard-drinking and
loose-living Slick thereupon becomes almost
a Puritan in his efforts to keep the young
man from viciousness, ultimately discarding
his mistress Sonia and nearly strangling her
when he finds that she has introduced his son
to “hooch.” To get rid of the boy Sonia hires
the snake-charmer Correne to trap him into
a love affair; but the girl perversely falls
in love in earnest, and Danny, after she
has confessed her life, decides that she has
never had a real chance and marries her.
’Pile development is a maddening tragedy to
Slick; and, although the ultimate solution
may not be entirely satisfactory, it is per-
haps more true to life than the abnegation
usually required of the soiled heroine. Beryl
Barraclough, who stepped into the part of
Sonia at less than 24 hours’ notice owing to
the illness of Althea Glasby,
effectively portrays the loose-
moralled, passion-wracked circus
girl; Zara Clinton matches her
good work as Correne; John
Warwick is Danny; and Lyiff
wood Roberts makes a powerful
study of the bullying circus
ipanager obsessed with the idea
of giving his son a better life
than he has known himself.
Credit is due to H.. W. Denver,
the producer, for the vastly im-
proved work of the rest of the
cast, and a bouquet goes to John
Galway as the sympathetic old
show-hand, Whip Denny.
%
Although most Sydney shows
are feeling the financial effects
of operitis, Maurice Moscoviteh
in “The Silent House” has been
packing the Theatre Royal
nightly for over four weeks. At
the St. James, “Rio Rita” is
more than holding its own, too.
Percy Hutchison is to change
on Saturday to “The Luck of
the Navy” for the last five
nights of liis season at the
Palace; thereafter the new,
salaried Repertorians will intro-
duce “Dear Brutus” at that
house. “Mother Machree” and
“Models” hold the Empire; and
Allan Wilkie has been taking
Shakspeare to Mosman this
week.
* * *
“The Sentimental Bloke” is
paying a week’s visit to the
Newtown Majestic. Dennis’s
play showed all its old quality
on Saturday night under Bert
Bailey’s direction, and a packed
house declared in a loud voice
that the goods were dinkum.
v
The work of Ambrose Barker
and Peg Wynne stands out with
distinction on a Tivoli pro-
gramme which is to lose the In-
gSnues after this week. Peg is a thin
exponent of fat humor, who tells liow, when
she was standing on the street kerb, a rider
rode up and hitched his horse to her. Am-
brose, besides acting as support to the
feminine humorist, has a good stock of his
own fun. Bob Barlow, disguised as a tramp,
beefs out pathetic songs; and Don Julian
shows himself a slick cartoonist; while Joe
Termini, an eccentric musician, deserves a
line to himself.
H- * #
At Fullers’ Theatre “The Country Boy,”
produced on Saturday by the Band Box
Revue Co., shows a continuation of the
improved attention to staging. Even a few
old chestnuts are given a new polish, and
the trifle moves very entertainingly.
* * *
“The Birth of a White Australia” was
screened at a private view last week. Phil
Walsh has taken a big canvas, but left much
of it unfilled; the
history of the riots
at Lambing Flat
which led to an Act
excluding Asiatics
from N.S.W. is
tied to a rather
banal tale. Yet tin;
pictures of early
exploration for
which the producer
had to travel to
North Queensland
in order to rake to-
gether abo. actors
who have not for-
gotten old pastimes,
and of early
settlement, together
with several of the
pastoral sce u e s
should win the film
a hearty greeting
wherever it is
shown. Careful
editing would work
a great improve-
ment. Some of the
early verbiage might
be cut; but a little
explanation is
needed about the
early hostility to
the Chinama n
which the pictures
do not fully ex-
plain. Still, handi-
capped as he was,
p roduce r Phil
Walsh deserves
credit for his enter-
prise.
¥ ¥ ¥
The transforma-
tion which th e
movie people have
made in “The
Merry Widow” for
screen purposes is
rather staggering.
It has burst sud-
denly on Sydney Crystal Palace, where the
wine of purple passion is being slopped about ,
generously. “My Best Girl,” showing Mary
Pickford at her happiest has “Hangman’s
House” with the notable Victor McLaglen in
it —a well-wrought story of Sinn Fein in
Ireland—as its accompaniment. Hoyt’s De
Luxe shows “Across to Singapore” and a
sheik picture, “Fleetwing.” “Sunrise” sets
at the Prince Edward this week, to be re-
placed by the film version of “The Stu-
dent Prince.”
# * *
To write convincing comedies of high life
is a task beyond the modern American play-
wright. The aristocrats of “White Collars,”
the new piece at Melb. Athenaeum, are cut
from the same length of homespun as the
plebeians. They speak the same dialect and
shoot off the same armament of sentimental
bromides as their dustmen. With the above
proviso, the play can be recommended.
There are the elements of a popular success
in the honeyed story of a typist (Leona
Hogarth) who marries a handsome young
millionaire (Leonard Doyle), and of the im-
peccable youth’s struggles to make his wife’s
middle-class family abandon their high-
minded objection to sharing in tlieir rela-
tive’s rise in fortune. The third act, in
which the family is left by a series of mis-
fortunes defenceless against the attacks of
plutocratic philanthropy, is helped to con-
siderable depths of pathos by the sincerity
of Wyrley Birch as the father whose bour-
geois pride shelters behind a hardware
counter; and by Eve Dawnay, his almost
sainted wife. Norman Wister is the only
character low enough to throw into relief
the gentility of the millionaire, though
Elizabeth Mears makes a small but valued
contribution as a realistic workgirl who
regards a millionaire in the family as worth
a dozen in “Who’s Who.” Miss Hogarth,
the star, continues to lean heavily on her
smile and to miss more subtle ways of pene-
trating the heart, while C. Coutts, in a
small part, once more angles for the laughs
of the unthinking by interpreting everything
in the vein of farce.
* * *
Everything there is to say about Arthur
Wing Pinero has been said' already. The
Bulletin will therefore merely remark that
“The Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith” was revived
bv the Vanboucicaults at Melb. Comedy on
Saturday, and proved more theatrically effec-
tive than a dozen more recent plays which
have been ecstatically received by the critics.
# * *
That self-possessed little lady who prefers
to be known as “Juliet” got a hearing at
the Austral Salon, Melbourne the other
evening in a performance by the Institute
of Arts and Literature of her three-acter
“The Choice.” In many ways this little
drama was a model to. more pretentious
playwrights, notably in economy ot
materials and directness of narration.
Michael Jepherson is a weak man torn
MARGARET BANNERMAN, the beautiful Anglo-Canadian,
who appeared in a new play at Sydney Criterion on Saturday.
between a too-superior wife and a too-
attractive potential mistress. Although it
is not stated, one infers him living liis vol-
canic love-life beneath a crust of inteiise
respectability, compounded of a solid city
business, a desirable det. res. in Malvern
and golf on Sundays He eventually burst
the crust by bolting to W.A. with the mis-
tress, returning later when he learns that
his wife has presented him in his absence
with a daughter. The wife’s true lover who
waits for seven years until she is con-
vinced of her husband’s worthlessness would
be somewhat incredible if it weren’t for
“Juliet’s” intense earnestness. The chief
fault in the play is the long part given to
the child, usually a hopeless proposition in
stage presentment. Hazel Terry, Josie Crow-
thers Mostyn Wright and Dorothy Neigh-
bour did the thing a fair degree of justice.
* * #
If Beethoven leaves Moiseiwitsch —and his
hearers —cold, Chopin warms him like a
bottle of sparkling hock. A large audience
had a glass of the Sonata in B Flat minor
(Op. 35) at Melbourne Auditorium last
week, and enjoyed it. The scherzo was the
most thrilling thing the pianist has done,
during the Funeral March hearse, nodding
plumes, pall, bier and mourning-coaches
materialised, to be swallowed in the final
presto. Moiseiwitsch has this power of
conjuring up the vision of things rather than
ideas, and “The Girl with the Flaxen Hair”
duly emerged from his playing of the Debussy
fragment in all her tantalising vagueness,
while “Jeux d’eau,” by the modern man
Havel, was likewise responsible for filling
the theatre with suggestions of leaping foun-
tains. A concert paraphrase of the “Blue
Danube,” by one Schulz-Evler, closed the pro-
gramme and left the impression that
Strauss’s delectable waltz was no better for
being tediously messed about with.
H- H- H-
The company headed by Zillah Bateman
will try its hand at farce comedy with “The
Girl in the Limousine” on Saturday at the
Melbourne Princess.
* * *
At Melbourne Tivoli W. Cromwell-Knox
is an entertaining new arival, though his
enthusiasm for some of his jokes isn’t shared
by this hardened journal. Otherwise there
is nothing fresh to report. *


siiTure
Acquire Right Knowledge
and Win Business Success
Accounting to-day is a specialised art, and only those -who have
been properly trained in its principles and practice can hope to succeed.
Take the first step towards high executive rank by determining to qualify as an Accountant
and Secretary.
The 8.1. A. course is the most modern and the most practical available in Australia. It is
not theoretical. It has been compiled by men of eminence in business life and epitomises actual
current business experience.
When you have graduated through 8.1. A. you will be practised in handling the actual
transactions and solving the actual problems that will face you in your future business career.
Success in the examinations is guaranteed, and the fee is moderate and inclusive.
Seize your opportunity and apply at once for full particulars.
BLENNERHASSETT’S INSTITUTE OF ACCOUNTANCY, LTD.,
Correspondence Coaches, Accountancy and Secretarial Specialists.
SYDNEY: Head Office, Herald Building, 66 Pitt Street. ’Phone B 5388.
NEWCASTLE: Commonwealth Bank Chambers, Newcomen Street. ’Phone,
Newcastle 1895-
BRISBANE: Ist Floor, Exton House, Queen Street. ’Phone, Central 2320.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
ii CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, n.s.w.
ft
m
For the executive type of man only, we have
published rather an unusual booklet called
"Forging Ahead in Business.” It contains a
concise description of the Institute’s work,
besides business facts of interest to mature
men. Have your secretary write us for a com-
plimentary copy, or use this advertisement.
Name
Business Address
Mo
'StA
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The New Zealand Insurance Co.
Net To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
Nov., £ £ £ £
1918.. 202,211 12} p.c. = 75,000 127,211 915,946
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 765,946
1919.. 186,171 11s p.c. = 87,500 98,671 864,617
May,
1920.. 112,590 13} „ „ 50,000 62,590 927,207
1921.. 271,803 13} „ ~ 100,000, 171,803 1,099,010
1922.. 52,592 13} „ ~ 100,000 1,051,602
1923.. 181,960 14.2 „ ~106,250 75,710 1,127,312
Taxation reserve not required 30,000 1,157,312
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 1,007,312
1924.. 186,257 124 p.c. =112,500 73,757 1,081,069
1925.. 243,331 13.2 „ ~118,750 124,581 1,205,650
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 1,055,650
1926.. 208,617 11.9 p.c. =125.000 83,617 1,139,267
1927.. 244,172 12} „ ~ 131,250 112,922 1,252,189
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 1,102,189
1928.. 226,536 11.5 p.c. =137,500 89,036 1,191,225
Unfavorable loss experiences in Maoriland
and Australia are responsible for the drop of
£17,636 in last year’s net profit. That the
fall was not more pronounced is partly due
to the New Zealand’s successful foreign
operations. Fish swim into its net from all
quarters of the globe. Last year’s catch, mea-
sured in net premium income, was £28,807
bigger than the previous year’s haul. But
losses called' for £29,660 more than they
did in 1927, and exes, were £22,779 heavier,
so the shrinkage in the underwriting surplus
(£94,521) was £23,632. On the other hand,
income from investments (£130,273) grew
another £4915, and was only £7227 short
of the dividend.
Although a point was knocked off the
dividend, shareholders were handed £6250
more than in the previous year. That was
because 2s. per share was capitalised early
in the term. It was the sixth gift issue inside
16 years and made the 20s. shares paid to
16s. Taid capital has been quadrupled in
this way since 1912. And still the reserves
are almost equal to the capital. At May
31 the two combined had to net only 5.7 p.c.
to pay an 11A p.c div.; actually last year’s
net earnings were 9.4 p.c. on average funds
compared with 10.8, 9.5, 11.9 and 9.4 p.c.
back to 1924.
All told, it is not surprising that the
market heavily discounts the future by pay-
ing 435. for the scrip. At that price the
investor buys an immediate return of only
4.3 p.c. on a lli p.c. div. basis. Even if the
rate was lifted a point and another 2s. per
share capitalised, the return would still be
only 5.2 p.c.
A disappointing feature of the last
accounts is the rise of 1.2 p.c. in the ex
pensc rate, which, despite keen competition, 1
had been worked down from 34 p.c. in 1924
to 30.2 p.c. in 1927. The effects of wide
policy-writing show up sharply in the high
loss rate; the average for the last decade was
60.7 p.c. Here is a view of the co.’s under-
writing experience over many years:—
Loss Expense
_ . Rate. Rate.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. p.c
1895. . £267,917 £172,137 £79,203 64.2 29.6
1900.. 342,336 195,864 95,651 57.2 27.9
1905.. 425,991 273,698 111,677 64.2 26.2
1906.. 565,149 j f285,'(595 l 429,361 H 1 .9 22.9
1910.. 605,509 391,321 " 172,593 64.5 28.5
1915.. 740,646 423,844 208,879 57.2 28.2
1921. . 1,275,230 768,469 344,253 60.3 27.0
1924.. 1,026,045 608,214 348,973 59.2 34.0
1925. . 1,072.761 603,650 342,334 56.2 31.9
1926. . 1,066,012 633,973 355,380 59.5 33.3
1927. . 1,121,425 664,684 338,588 59.3 30.2
1928. . 1,150,232 694,344 361,367 60.4 31.4
•General. tSan Francisco disaster.
A couple of years ago the co. closed its
new York office, though it still has a marine
agency there and an office in ’Frisco. What-
ever little it lost in premium income by
restricting its policy-writing in America has
been more than made up elsewhere; and it
certainly couldn’t have lost much in profits.
A summary of the figures of 100 leading
American fire offices shows a combined under-
writing profit in their last year of only 4 p.e.
of their aggregate premium income. And that
is the first time since 1922 that their aggre-
gate figures show an underwriting profit
at all. Only for six out of the last 30
years has their underwriting profit been
5 p.c. or more.
_ The New Zealand’s assets are an impres-
sive lot, and it may be taken for granted
that they are well worth their book value,
which was £2.835,722 at May 31. Of that
amount £2,020,173 was in public securities
and cash. Here is a comparison of balance-
sheet figures:—
1914. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. £450,000 £1,050,000 £1,200,000
Liabilities.. .. 252,929 353,339 355,747
Public securities.. 521,979 1,845,803 1,855,804
Mortgages .. 195,409 33,967 38,507
Shares, etc. . . 395 9,955 91,485
Freeholds .. . . 349,457 409,529 432,062
Agency balances and
cash .. .. 240,249 445,023 417,864
Liabilities consist of £208,334 appropriated
for unascertained losses, and £147,413 com-
ing to sundry creditors, including something
for unearned premiums. It is quite pos-
sible that a little may be hidden in each
item. As usual the reserve for unexpired risks
(£575,000) was 50 p.c. of the year’s net
premium l income, and the provision was
£114,907 more than is generally accepted as
adequate. Total funds (£2,391,225) were
again more than double the year’s premium
income, or over 50 p.c. more than is gener-
ally looked for. If anything further than
that is wanted, there is another £300,000 of
uncalled capital; hence policy-holders have
nothing to worry about on' the score of
security.
The trustee branch of the business con-
tinues to show steady expansion. Trusts in
hand at May 31 totalled £5,371,257, an in-
crease of £429,738 during the year. Ten
years ago the total was only £425.377. What
this department earns is not disclosed.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 112,102 12 p.c. = 65,334 46,768 542,782
Internal reserves disclosed, £90,000.. 632,782
Reserves capitalised, £120,000.. .. 512,782
1919.. 104,149 10 p.e. = 72,000 32.149 544,931
Premiums on new shares, £27,280.. 572,211
1920.. 143,975 12} p.c. = 101.790 1 ... , qR
Provident Fund, £lO,OOO ( 32 > 185 CO4 - 396
1921.. 104,561 10 p.c. = 87,720 ) r
Provident Fund, £lO,OOO J
1922. . 12.1,772 10 p.c. = 8 1 ,720 ) «/, ako na7 oqq
Provident Fund, £lO,OOO j J 6.052 637,289
Internal reserves disclosed, £109,650.. 746,939
1923.. 161,006 12i p.c. = 109,650 ) okr ms
Provident Fund, V £15,000 J 3C ’ 366 783)295
Reserves capitalised, £109,650 . . 673,645
Premiums on new shares, £11,440 .. 685,085
1924.. 206,994 10 p.c. = 109,342 ) eco 777 797
Provident Fund. £5OOO ) 92)552 lU.IAI
Premiums on new shares, £16,000.. 793,737
1925.. 205,151 10 p.c. = 133,200 71,951 865,688
1926.. 214,058 10 ~ „ 161,040 53,018 918,706
1927.. 223,123 10 „ „ 175,680 47,443 96G.149
Premiums on new shares, £98,110.. 1,064,259
1928.. 252,346 10 p.c. = 204,995 47,351 1,111,610
When tiie accounts closed in 1927 this co.’s
clients had sent in so many bales of wool
that its big stores at Port Adelaide would
not hold them all, so space had to be leased.
That meant extra handling and bigger exes.,
so the board decided to put up yet another
warehouse. To finance this and provide for
the further expansion of the business 48,920
new £lO shares, called to £6, were issued
early in the term. They brought with them
£98,110 of share premiums and added
£293,520 to paid capital, making it
£2,050,320, of which no less than £1,173,120
has come in during the last five years.
The steady inflow of new funds has natu-
rally affected the co.’s earning power; last
year’s disclosed profit was only 12.3 p.e. on
average capital compared with 12.7, 13.2,
15.4 and 18.9 p.c. back to 1924, and the
average rate for the past six years (35.1
p.c.) is a shade less than the average in
the preceding five years. But, notwithstand-
ing the shrinkage, the 10 p.c. div., which has
been an annual event for the past 23 years,
with a little extra in the fat periods, has
been a comfortable matter. To pay 10 p.c.
on capital as it now stands, total funds
(capital and reserves combined) have to earn
only 6.4 p.c.; actually average funds turned
in 8 p.c. last year as against 8.2 p.c. in
the previous term. Moreover, the £229,650
of bonus scrip handed out during the last
decade makes the 10 p.c. worth more to old
holders. Also the frequent new issues at
par—last year’s lot is the first on which
shareholders were asked for a premium—
have been in the nature of substantial
bonuses to those on the register.
How the business has bounded along is
seen in the next comparison:—
Paid Gross
Capital. Profits. Expenses.
1910 .. £300,000 £144,260 £84,738
1915 .. 400,000 172,386 102,438
1920 .. 877,200* 462,451 318,476
1921 .. 877,200* 448,070 343,509
1923 . . 877,200 f 513,318 352,312
1924 . . 1,200,000 t 585,196 378,202
1925 . . 1,464,000 f 638,642 433,490
1926 . . 1,750,800 t 652,260 438,202
1927 . . 1,756,800 f 674,127 451,003
1928 . . 2,050,320) 733,162 480,816
*lncludes £120,000 of reserves capitalised,
flncludes £229,650 of reserves capitalised.
The ratio of exes, to gross profits has im-
proved as the turnover expanded. Last year
the figure was 65.6 p.c. compared with 66.9,
67,1 and 67.8 p.e. back to 1925, and that
is as it should be.
The fact that nearly half the wool in S.
Australia passes through the co.’s stores,
and that it handles more of Westralia’s fleeqes
than any other co., coupled with a long run
of satisfactory seasons and rising prices,
helped to swell the figures tremendously. In
the past season 241,1.46 bales were sold in
Adelaide at an average of £2l 16s. per bale,
an increase of 5591 bales on the previous
year, when the average was £l9 6s. In
Westralia 153,154 bales averaged £25 15s.
each as against £2O 3s. for the previous
season, when 17,822 fewer bales were sold.
Most of the new money that came in dur-
ing the past term was held liquid. Gov-
ernment securities and cash (£1,379,215)
increased £395,418. That and other move-
ments are seen in this comparison of balance-
sheet figures:—
1920. 1926. 1927. 1928.
£ £ £ £
Deposits,
etc. . . 2,201,305 1,971,052 2,083,791 2,131,529
Other lia-
bilities .. 65,587 73,331 26,029 48,654
Property, pre-
mises, plant
etc. .. 278,598 446,622 518,282 550,263
Gov ernment
stock & cash 1,456,515 1,284,421 983,797 1,379,215
Advances,
etc. .. 2,016,536 3,110,943 3,449,125 3,603,864
Other assets.. 62,630 158,317 174,791 129,816
During the year £154,739 was added to the
book value of advances, etc. (£3,603,864),
which includes stocks and shares in other
cos. How much of the £2,131,529 of de-
posits, etc., can be withdrawn at short
notice is not disclosed in the published figures,
but, in any case, the co.’s position is very
strong. For every £1 of outside money at
risk in the business, excluding the provident
guarantee fund (£218,531), there were more
or less liquids, including advances, totalling
465. lid. at June 30; excluding advances,
depositors and others could see 13s. lOd.
of every £1 of their money in cash and
readily realisable securities. The proportions
were 535. Bd. and 10s. lid. respectively at
the previous balance. During the year
£18,320 was written off premises and plant,
but £31,981 more than that was spent on
additions etc.; thus the item stands in the
books at £550,263, and is probably worth a
good deal more.
The outlook for the current year is for
another good season over most of S. Aus.,
though it is beginning to feel a bit anxious
about the delay in late winter rains. The
West Darling, where the co. is solidly en-
trenched, continues dry. In Westralia the
development of the pastoral industry con-
tinues and prospects there are bright. The
market _ expresses its confidence in the co.
by paying £ll for the scrip. After allow-
ing for the final div., the return at that
figure is only 5.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The visible backing amounts to £9
ss. in net tangibles.
Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney).
Net Dividends. Written To Re-
June, Profit. (10 p.c.) Off. serves. Reserves.
£/ & £/ £, £,
1918 . . 15,619 5,000 3047 7,572 135,859
1919 . . 20,644 7,500 13,144 149,008
Reserves capitalised, £15,000 . . 134,008
Provident fund, £5OOO . . . . 129,003
1920 .. 20,564 8,753 615 11,196 140,199
Reserves capitalised, £lO,OOO .. 130,199
(12} p.c.)
1921 .. 24,495 12,250 2530 9,715 139,914
1922 . . 24,007 12,500 3141 8,366 148,280
1923 . . 27,468 14,375 3000 10,093 158,373
1924 .. 28,259 15,625 3995 8,639 167,012
1925 .. 30,500 17,500 2500 10,500 177,512
Reserves capitalised, £lO,OOO . . 167,512
1926 . . 31,651 20,000 2209 9,442 176,954
1927 .. 31,972 21,125 2545 8,302 185,256
1928 . . 33,552 ’ 21,875 2583 9,094 194,350
The board wrote last year’s net earnings at
£80,666 ; but that was after £2886 had been
added to the commission and reserve account,
making it £74,612. This account represents
the unearned portion of corpus commissions',
which range from 1 p.c. to 24 p.c. on the
capital value of estates, and for which credit
is taken, in p. and 1. account as the trusts
are wound up. The £2583 shown as written
off in the table represents contributions to
the fidelity and provident funds (£lOOO to
each last year), and £583 struck off furni-
ture. Including this with profits, the £33,552
last year was 19.2 p.c. on average capital
compared with 19.8 p.c. and 19.7 p.c. back
to 1926, when £lO,OOO (2s. per share) of
reserves was capitalised.
Shortly before the close of accounts in
1927 shareholders were asked for 3s. per
share (£15,000), and there was a rush to
hand the money in. That made paid capital
£175,000 in 100,000 £lO shares paid to 355.
-—£35,000 of the total represents gifts since
1910. The policy is to get in more capital
as the trust business grows. There is still
£825.000, equal to £8 ss. per share, uncalled,
but £5 of that is a reserve liability that can
only be asked for in the event of liquidation.
Over 27 p.c. of last year’s profits remained
in the business; thus visible reserves
(£194,350) swelled to £19,350 in excess of
paid capital. That is to say, shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined) at
June 30 had to earn only 5.9 p.c. to pay 12J
p.c. on capital as it now stands, whereas
last year’s profit was 9.1 p.c. on average
funds.
In addition to investment earnings there
are the growing returns from the steadily
expanding trust business, which has more
than doubled in the last eight years. Here
is a detailed view of the progress:—
Exes.
Gross Ex- p.e. of
Trusts. Income. penses. Income.
1911 ..£8,853,862 £27,895 £16,850 60.4
1916 .. 12,604,680 37,818 28,328 74.9
1922 . . 20,399,460 84,213 61,830 73.6
1923 .. 21,955,163 90,251 66.673 73.8
1924 .. 23,683,701 95,781 71,078 74.2
1925 . . 25,637,073 101,220 74.774 73.8
1926 . . 26,969,507 ' 107,362 79,846 74.3
1927 . . 29,967,269 115,512 86,509 74.8
1928 . . 34,231,040 127,009 96,343 75.9
Some pretty big estates dropped into the co.'-
care last year, when trusts amounting to
£4,263,771 in excess of those wound up wen
placed on the hooks at an extra cost of
£9834. Rut since the spring in gross profit
(£127,009) was £11,497, exes. (£96,343 1
were proportionately only 1.1 P-c. heavier
than in the previous term. And never before
in the history of the 00. had it received so
many notifications of its appointment as
trustee.
The co.’s own funds are £159,213, mort-
gages ; £115,000, premises, etc.; £68,603.
public securities; £44,233, cash, etc.; £4400,
other'assets.
The market, attracted by the corpulent re-
serves, the wide margin between earnings
and distributions and the rapid expansion
of the trust business, heavily mortgages tli
future and pays £5 17s. 6d. for the scrip,
which has a visible backing of 425. 2d. in
net tangibles; there is also some hidden
strength in the property item. The immedi-
ate return at that price is only 3.7 p.c. on
a 12£ p.c. div. basis. On the same basis
the investment will be worth only 5 p.c. when
the shares are called to 565. Bonus issues
totalling 15s. per share would produce only
slightly better results. Chief hopes, there-
fore, centre in a lift in the div. rate.
George Farmer, Ltd.
, Dividends. ,
Net Prefs. Towards
Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
June, 33,938
1920.. 17,136 4800 10 p.c. = 4,56.5 ]
Adjustment payment to vendors, 1 2,985 30,953
£4786 .. .. j
1921.. 17,228 4800 10 p.c. = 6,00 0 6,4 2 8 24,525
1922.. 21,144 4800 15 ~ „ 9,000 7,344 17.151
1923.. 29,675 4800 25 „ ~15,000 9,875 7,300
1924.. 20,146 4800 20 ~ „ 12,000" 3,346 3,960
Reserves.
1925.. 27,849 4800 20 „ ~12,000 11,049 7,089
Assets written up, £20,000 ... .. 27,089
1926.. 27;184 4800 20 p.c. =12,000 10,384 37,473
Reserves capitalised, £30,000 .. . . 7,473
1927.. 25,414 4800 18 p.c. =16,200 4,414 11,887
1928.. 21,334 4800 16 „ ~14,400 2,134 14,021
This Victorian ham- and bacon-curing co.
maintained its volume of trade, but profits
fell away, the board says, owing to difficult
conditions. It does not mention what these
conditions were; but Foggitt-Jones and Hut-
tons amalgamated their businesses during the
year, and maybe competition is keener. Also
pigs were both scarce and dear at the com-
mencement of the term owing to an outbreak
of swine fever, and that did not help. One
way and another the year’s gross profit
(£40,084) fell away £4408. while the cut in
exes, amounted to only £328. That left the
net result £4OBO poorer than the 1927
figure.
Nevertheless, after handing the prefs. their
£4BOO, enough of the year’s net earnings
remained to pay 18.3 p.c. on the £90,000 of
ord. capital compared with 22.9 p.c. in th"
previous term. But the one-in-two gift to
the ords. in 1926 left the support for capital
rather thin, so a couple of points was clipped
off the div., reducing it to 16 p.c. —equal to a
juicy 24 p.c. on capital as it stood before
the gift. Thus £2134 of the year’s profits
remained in the business, making the aggre-
gate visible lay-by equal to 3s. Id. per ord.
share at June 30; it was 12s. 6d. two years
ago. That and the narrower margin between
earnings and distributions during the last
couple of years suggests that divs. are likely
to be more sensitive to trade fluctuations
than hitherto.
The co.’s hams and bhcon, etc., have not
only won a market in Australia, but there is
an export trade as well. While this widen-
ing of the co.’s field has called for larger
turnover, up-to-date plant has kept produc-
tion costs in hand, and some extraordinarily
good results have been won. Since the public
became interested in 1919, besides paying
yearly dividends on £60,000 of pref. capital
the ords. have been handed £30,000 of bonus
scrip in addition to cash dividends totalling
£101,165, or an average of a shade over IT
p.c. p.a. Also £27,500 of goodwill has been
wiped out of the books —£7500 from trading
profits, the balance (£20,000) by writing
up the assets in 1926. Including the bonus
issue, tlie ords. have received 221 p.c., or an
average of 244 p.c., over the last nine years.
For the most part surplus earnings have
gone into the factory and plant, and further
additions to the cold store are now under con-


Gentlemen prefer Sharwood’s
SURELY life offers nothing better than the
pleasures of congenial company, of
cheerful surroundings, and last, but not
least, the satisfaction of being well and
correctly dressed. It is remarkable, however,
that many splendid young men and beautiful
Australian girls, careful in all other matters,
are careless as to their footwear! Undoubtedly
it is a fact that the shoes you wear will mar
or make your appearance.
Better-class men and women choose their
shoes with discrimination —they do not blindly
accept the first pair that is offered to them,
but emphatically insist on haying J. H.
Sharwood’s, knowing full well that the sales-
man who offers some other make alleged to
be just as good” has his own ends to serve.
First ascertain which of the great range of
Sharwood shapes fits exactly, and then
always ask for that shape. You will be
assured of the same consistent comfort.
Remember, the name is on every pair. Look for it!
ism
A
■
1 >
a*
- : * , *
/ - *.
mmmi
88
i ms '•
Wjx
■%
m
p- :
fl
dm
h
■ ■ >; .'.r:
■
m
m
t-
i
. I
I
m
■
■
■
: :
.
' v.-v
>
i
■
ill B
■
.
SJ-r
9-
wiine are Shamvoods too
FAULTLESS
FOOTWEAR
Should you have any
difficulty i n purchasing
Sharwood Shoes you are
cordially invited to write
to Head Offices, Abbotsford,
Melbourne, Vic., when you
will be advised as to the
nearest store from which
they are obtainable. Do
what others do decline
substitutes, and look for the
name on every pair.


INSURE- WITH THE
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
16 MARTIN TRACE, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
The “Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of
RENDROCK,
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known.
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY”
FOR AUGUST.
The Great Australian
Guide to Money-making
No Investor, Trustee or Business
Man can afford to be without it.
AUGUST NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or Thu Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
Bundi Tin’s two dredges turned over
70,000 c.y. during the first fortnight of
August for 44 tons tin oxide, while 12
tons valued at £l4OO were recovered from
tin-shed residues accumulated over some
years. The output of the dredges realised
£5750 net. For July, 77 tons were recov-
ered ; average, I.lolb. The August figures
were slightly better than 1.241 b.
* * * *
We stock -4- GP + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
• British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Municipal Loans Negotiated. Geo. E. Dicken-
son, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant, Victoria Buildings,
Swanston Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * # *
Low construction cost is a big economy feature of
Pioneer Wood Pipe. The line can be built at the
job, saving freight and handling charges. Joints
need no caulking and the pipe is easily tapped for
connections. There is no danger of corrosion. Full
particulars from The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Head Office, Burns Bay Road (near Fig Tree Bridge),
Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Queensland
Insurance Ca.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
sideration. This comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows what has taken place:—
1922. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Liabilities .. £1,838 £2,931 £8,923 £5,547
Premises .. .. 16,105 42,000 41,086 40,059
Plant, etc. .. 15,386 31,569 32,875 29,834
Stocks .. .. 23,928 26,550 25,152 33,122
Book debts . . 29,416 34,668 37,873 38,354
Cash, investments,
etc 31,470 37,717 47,161 41,149
Notwithstanding this, most of the assets
are still liquid or semi-liquid. At the close
of accounts the handful of debt (£5547)
was covered more than twice over by cash
alone, and the more or less liquid surplus
(£107,078) was £5815 stronger than at the
previous balance. Stocks (£33,122, up
£7970 during the year) are higher than
usual, and much depends upon the figure at
which they have been written. During the
year £4068 more was struck off than was
spent on fixed assets.
The market, attracted by the sparkle in
the earnings and the co.’s strong financial
position, pays 495. for the ords., which have
a net tangible backing of 235. Id. At that
price the return is 61 p.c. on a 16 p.c.
div. basis. The prefs., which carry a fixed
cumulative 8 p.c. and have priority as to
capital, are covered by 545. Bd. in net tan-
gibles, and last year’s net profit was nearly
41 times their annual requirements. At
245. the market: values them approximately
on a p.c. basis.
Home Recreations, Ltd.
At the annual meeting, in May last,
shareholders in this Sydney co. appointed a
committee, headed by Hugh Denison, to in-
quire into the report and balance-sheet. For
the 12 months to March 31 the accounts
showed a loss of £43,037, including £6584
reserved for taxation and £lOBO added to
goodwill,, etc. This followed the declaration
of a profit of £28,112 in 1927; £8771
in 1926; £8826 in 1925; £27,732 in 1924.
And the directors’ report for the past year,
disclosing a loss, implied a good deal more
than it stated.
The committee, which has completed its
investigation, now reports that for several
years past the co. has been overtrading. Much
of the present trouble began with the exten-
sion of manufacturing activities in 1926. To
stimuate sales long-term credits were granted
on a t.-p. basis, in many instances without
a deposit. This meant a large increase in
working capital, and the board went to the
finance cos. for much of the money—during
the 12 months to March 31, 1927, £79,256
was tacked on to the debt, making it
£223,898. Immediately the co.’s bankers
called in £2S,(XX) of the overdraft, and since
the interest paid to the finance cos. was
effectively double that paid to the bank, the
strain became severe.
It was this system of finance, coupled
with a loose system of giving credit, an
inefficient collecting plan and bad buying,
that was chiefly responsible for the awk-
ward position in which the co. now finds
itself. Some of the unsaleable lines were
taken into the last and, to a greater ex-
tent, the two previous balance-sheets with-
. out adequate provision for depreciation,
thus inflating the apparent profit.
After thoroughly combing the accounts
and revaluing the assets the committee
reports a deficiency of £122,135. And that
was after leaving £ll,OOO of goodwill in
the sheet. This comparison of balance-
sheet figures with the committee’s valua-
tions shows the extent to which the latter
body has considered it necessary to use
the axe: —
Balance-sheet Committee’s
March 31, 1928. Valuation.
Capital—Ord £85,157 £85,157
Pref 200,000 200,000
Sundry creditors .. 114,827 113,499
Mortgages . . .. 104,925 104,925
Freehold, etc 74,130 70,150
Plant, etc 15,168 11,896
Stocks .. . . . . 80,773 70,225
Book debts . . . . 214,185 191,772
Shares in other cos. . . 25,540 20,000
Other tangibles . . 6,404 6,404
Goodwill, etc. . . . . 75,581 11,000
Deficiency . . . . 39,773 122,135
Thus on latest figures to meet £113,499
coming to trade creditors there are book
debts, mostly on a t.p. basis, with a written-
down value of £191,772. But pending
collection, fresh capital is necessary to meet
commitments falling due over the next few
months. How the money is to be raised
is a matter for the board to decide, and
thus far they have not spoken on the sub-
ject. Meanwhile reconstruction is recom-
mended by the committee. If this is to be
on the basis of their valuation of the assets,
including £ll,OOO for goodwill, then the
whole of the ord. capital and 3s. 9d. per
pref. share will have to be written off if
the deficit is to be wiped out. That would
reduce paid capital to £163,000.
The net tangible backing for the prefs.
amounts to only 15s. 2d.; on paper it was
19s. at March 31, and there was then
£24,000 owing for arrears of dividends. This
latter amount, which is not taken into
account above, might be regarded by pref.
holders as lost, too. However, no definite
plan for reconstruction has been thus far
put forward.
On the market 7s. 6d. is asked for the
prefs., but their value is speculative at
present. The position is now largely in their
hands. Much depends on the terms of re-
construction decided upon. At present the
pref. rights are only a nominal matter, and
the probabilities are that in order to attract
fresh capital some kind of first preference
will have to be offered. Although there is
a big load of debt to work off, the position is
not hopeless. The business appears now to
be making a reasonable profit on turnover,
the committee says, and further adds that
there is no reason why it should not show a
fair profit on a reduced capital, assuming
that the management is in capable hands.
The eo.’s history supports this view.
The “freezing in” of the drill-pipe at
Roma Oil Corp.’s No. 2 bore had a much
more damaging effect on the market than
the very important published statement of
Government Analyst J. B. Henderson that
the oil so far recovered was only a conden-
sate from the anciently proved gas-field that
exists around Roma. The former can be
remedied in a few days, but the unpleasant
tang of the latter persists for those who
understand the significance of it. Chiefly it
much diminishes the prospects of getting a
flowing well at No. 2. Dr. Woolnough, when
he recommended the new site, had a pen-
chant for the filtrate theory. Now, he says,
the fine analytical work of the Queensland
Government Analyst supports so strongly
the alternate view that he is forced to
accept the chemists’ conclusion.
Shortly we should see the gas-oil stratum
pierced, and many hopes will be realised or
blasted accordingly. For those who can
manage it, it were well to stand on velvet—
if possible. Forecasting is unprofitable, but
in a final summing up the chances of com-
mercial oil, everything considered, do not
appear striking. The facts as stated by the
analyst are not such as to induce undue
optimism. Another fairly significant item
was the heavy saline bottom water in No. 1
bore in contact with the gas. If there is
an oilpool in the Hospital Hill structure, it
seems unusual that gravity had not asserted
itself and ordained some systematic order
as to layers of gas, oil and brines. But. the
search for oil should go on, and No. 2 bore
will go deeper in case of a wash-out at
3750 ft. or so.
* * * *
An interesting process for the recovery of
ores from alluvial deposits was demonstrated
in Sydney recently by T. W. Merfield. The
plant is primarily intended to work alluvial
deposits where conditions are fairly dry,
though the designer claims that it will also
be successful in areas liable to flooding. The
digging is done by the familiar drag-line
bucket operated on the usual boom, the
plant being mounted either on rails or on
caterpillar wheels. The rails are picked up
and laid down as required by the bucket
boom without having to remove the bucket.
The latter strips the overburden and, after
depositing it behind the plant, takes out the
wash. This is dumped directly into the
recovery plant, and with the aid of a strong
head of water goes through a series of
ingenious mechanical boxmen. The ore is
transferred to the concentration bins by the
useful shovel. A complete plant, with a
weekly capacity of 10,000 yards, runs into
£30.000. The estimated yardage cost is 74d ,
which is far below the present cost of dredg-
ing in Australia. After the ore is treated
the water returns to the dam provided by the
overburden dump, and is utilised again as re-
quired. The design eliminates the pontoon
and flotation paddock required by a dredge.
* * * *
Broughton Edge scurried right through
Queensland in a few days, largely per air
mail, but did not visit Roma. ■ His analysis
of the geological data supplied him appa-
rently does not allow him to think that his
prospecting methods would be beneficially
applicable to the Roma oil-field. What the
general public should know, and doesn’t, is
that the geo-physicists can’t predict oil.
They can only grope for the hidden rock
structures, and then it is for the geologist to
come in and say if and where the drill
should test it.
* * $
The Quartette dredge which is going to
start operations on the Severn River, west
of Ballandean, for Birch Tin, Ltd., is nearly
six months overdue. The harassed manager
blames strikes and transport. Operations on
the overburden should now be under way.
Estimates for the original lease range from
40 to 100 tons of tin concentrates. The
pickings should be sweet if director Birch’s
forecasts are realised, but concentrates have
dropped £6O since lie raised the capital.
* * * *
Despite frequent assurances that its for-
tune was made, Monte Carlo Co. (W.A.)
has abandoned its option on Glenelg Queen,
'at Glenelg Hills, and the mortgagees have
been left with the option and the property
on their hands. Some months ago about half
of the contributing shares were forfeited
for non-payment of calls, and soon after the
mine was closed down and exemption ob-
tained. A recent Government report esti-
mates that 3000 tons of high-grade ore are
in sight above the 75ft. level, but cannot
be treated on the spot on account of the
inability of the Government, or anyone else,
to find water for crushing purposes on the
field. So far small crushings from the
“Queen” conveyed by road and rail to Cool-
gardie, about 200 miles away, have yielded
over £lO a ton ; but mining and treatment
charges plus heavy cost of transport to the
mill mopped up most of this. Without
a water supply Glenelg Hills isn’t worth
much.
H* sjs
Lake View and Star is plugging away with
the deep development of the Golden Horse-
shoe main shoot in Chaffers ground. Since
work was first started in Chaffers by the
hake View 65 feet of driving in ore aver-
aging £lB per ton, over an exposed width
from 66in. to 120 ft., has been done at the
2770 ft. level. Also 37ft. of driving in ore
averaging £l3 per ton, over an exposed width
of from 72in. to 120 in., has been done at
the 3030 ft. level. On these results and
the prospective value of- the shoot further
south in Chaffers, Lake View shares have
soared to dizzy heights and, to the amaze-
ment of most market valuators, have stayed
there.
* * * *
Adelaide speculators, headed by M. B.
Ilamer and others, have decided to give
the Enterprise leases, alias Boulder No. 1,
and Golden Pike a fly. An option has been
taken, a manager appointed and an under-
taking given to pay £15,000 in instalments
spread over 15 months for a three-fourths
interest in the property conditionally on it
standing up to development. The remaining
one-fourth interest is held by the Persever-
ance Co., who, while unwilling to sell its
share, is agreeable to join forces with any
new co. formed to take over the show.
=l= * * *
The surprise of a quiet week in Malayan
tin circles was the refusal of the share-
holders in Pliin Soon to ratify the recom-
mendation of the directors that the co. go
into voluntary liquidation. The meeting
was held at Penang, and the refusal was
later endorsed by a meeting of Sydney share-
holders. It is proposed to form a new co.
to take over the old co.’s assets and liabili-
ties. The new co. will have the same nominal
capital as the old, £175,000 in £1 shares,
these to be issued to present shareholders as
paid up to 145., the other 6s. to be called.
The proceeds are expected to be sufficient
to pay off pressing creditors and instal
the new plant asked for by managing-
engineer PI. V. Seale. Once this is done 50
р. of present working costs, which have
been the cockroach in the soup, can be
saved.
Recoveries have been consistently good in
this open-cast show. From January to the
end of June this year revenue was £27,996
and expenditure £31,374, a loss of £3378.
Mechanical handling with Bucyrus shovels
driven by hydro-electric power is suggested,
and it is claimed that with such methods
the loss would have been converted into a
profit of £12,309. In May last directors
attempted to raise the money for the new
plant by a 12 p.c. debenture issue, but the
response was so lukewarm that negotiations
were opened for the sale of the mine; then
followed the suggestion for liquidation.
The co. showed a profit of £520 for July,
the average tin content pier yard being
3.051 b. For the first half of this month
20.3 tons tin were recovered from 21,000
yards ; average, 2.161 b., profit £467.
* * $ £
Burma Malay, a Sydney promoting co.
headed by E. M. Mulligan, has two subsi-
diaries, Katu and Renong Consolidated,
neither of which has yet reached the pro-
ducing stage, though both are proceeding
with dredge erection, and at Katu the work
is well advanced. The Katu Co.’s area is about
400 acres, estimated to contain 21,300,000
с. average depth 33 feet, going ,871 b. t.o.
of high quality to the yard. The Renong
property of 569 acres is estimated to contain
30 million c.y., going .721 b. of t.o. with an
average metallic content of 73 p.c.
* * Hs
Alluvial Tin’s dredging reports for the
first half of August show an encouraging rise
in yardage values. Rawang dredge’s 56,000
yards returned 10 tons t. 0., or .401 b., as
against .371 b. for July. Kundang continued
the recent improvement, turning over 70,000
yards for 21 tons; July figures were 34 tons
for the month, and the average .581 b. per
yard as against .671 b. for the August fort-
night. Changkat was again the star, taking
out 60 tons oxide from 62,000 yards, whereas
July produced only 50 tons. The average for
August, 2.161 b., as against 1.211 b. for July,
will tend to turn many of its rivals green
with envy.
The Kampar Tin Fields combine also did
well with 75 tons from 245,000'yards, the
July figures being 135 tons from 446,000
yards. The August fortnight’s average was
,681 b. per yard : for July it was .631 b. Jela-
pang continued to show reassuring form.
The last half-month’s output was 15 tons
from 47,000 yards; the average recovery,
.701 b. per yard, was two points higher than
July’s.
* * * *
_Of the Austral Malay group Kampong
Kamunting failed, to sustain the June and
July recoveries of 97 and 80:1 tons respec-
tively, the winnings for the first half of
August being 29| tons from (50,000 yards,
and the average .991 b. per yard, as against
1.40 for July. No. 2 dredge lost 50 hours
in boiler cleaning and repairs. Asam took
104 tons from 57,000 yards, scarcely a third
of the July total, while the average dropped
from .661 b. bo a trifle over .401 b. Ulu Yam
won 104 tons from 50,000 yards, less than
half the July return, and averaged ,401 b.
as against ,551 b. in July. Thabawlcik’s
figures were 24| tons from 48,000 yards,
which reads relatively better than 344 tons
for July. The average I.lllb. almost equals
June’s figure of 1.141 b.
* * * *
Takuapa’s run for July resulted in a
recovery of 54 tons t.o. from 160,000 yards,
an average of .801 b. In June, 36 tons came
from 145.000 yards, and the average was
.561 b. For the first half of August, 75,000
e.y. yielded 22% tons of t. 0., average .671 b.
The July return was so unusual that there
are still some people who are wondering
if the cable w T as read right.


H&33
■
. f| ‘
" V * •. *'** -
PYRMONT BRIDGE ROAD, GLEBE, NEW SOUTH WALES.
CONSTRUCTED BY The Glebe Council.
ENGINEER L. Carey, Esq., C.E.
COMPLETE CONCRETE ROAD REINFORCED WITH No. 655 B.R.C. FABRIC.
e
successfully solve the road problem by providing the ideal road
reinforcement.
A Concrete Road reinforced with B. R. C. Fabric adds tensile
strength to withstand any weakness in the foundation and stresses
due to impact.
B.R.C. Fabric has become an accepted and standard principle
of construction, and is being used extensively and constantly by
all road engineers throughout the world.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty., Ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
JNormanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 8861. Works: Ballarat Road, Sunshine, Victoria.
ouqoj
Sole Distributing Agents:
VICTORIA Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES . . J. Wild ridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair (Brisbane), Ltd.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . . Elder, Smith & Co., Limited, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA Elder, Smith & Co., Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Company (Aust.), Ltd., Hobart
NEW ZEALAND A. C. Gillies & Laird, Ltd., Wellington.
I
’A
Fabric
w


FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“The Happy Country.”
Recent news was to the effect that
Soviet Russia has planted orders abroad
for 200,000 tons of wheat, and that the
Government proposes to raise the necessary
funds at Berlin by a huge sale of art trea-
sures left over from the Imperial days.
Russia used to be a large and steady ex-
porter of wheat, but the old order has
passed. It imported 1,034,009 tons of “food-
stuffs and animals” in 1924-25, and exported
922,009 tons of “foods, animals and animal
products,” so the country was 112,000 tons
short of the capacity to feed itself. In
1925-26 imports were 2,570,147 tons and ex-
ports were 180,818 tons, so apparently the
food shortage rose to 2,389,329 tons. These
are official Soviet figures, covering all
dealings over the European frontiers.
Russia has been a land of
“primary producers,” yet in 1925-26 there
were three categories of exports which beat
those of agricultural products arid animals
out of sight—(l) peat, tar and asphalt; (2)
ores, metals and metal manufactures; (3)
paper and printed work. But it is a poor
trade measured by quantities; and the bal-
ance is generally on the wrong side. The
craving for foreign conquest is probably
explainable by the dire need for more art
treasures to sell in order to square the
accounts.
* * * *
The Russian farmer may represent 80
per cent, of the Soviet population, but,
estimated by his growing inability to feed
the country, he stands for very little of the
aggregate prosperity, such as it is. He
leaned to the revolutionary side in the great
disturbance because he desired to get rid
of the old landlordism, or what was left of
it, and collar the proceeds. The result was
nothing very great. In 1925, out of every
1000 peasant farms 313 measured less than
11 acres; 495 measured between 11 and 32
acres; and 192 were larger than 32 acres.
These figures outdo even the best closer-
settlement efforts of loan-mongering Aus-
tralian politicians. When the Russian
small farmer is too small to support himself
properly he can’t help the country much.
He is on a different plane from his scarce
town brother. Though he is 15 times more
numerous than this brother, he has only
from one-tenth to one-fifth the representa-
tion in the Soviet. He does his bit at the
election, by open voting and under official
supervision, of the Volost Soviets, which
elect the District Soviets, which choose the
Government Soviets, which create the All-
Russian Soviets, which last, in some way,
manufacture the final implement of Admini-
stration. At an ordinary election about 883
out of every 1000 members of the Volost
Soviets, which are nearest to the people, are
anti-Bolshevik, while only 51 out of every
1000 members of the All-Russian Soviets,
which are a long way from the people, show
a faint tendency to be against the Govern-
ment. The topmost body is Communist to
a man. /
* * * *
Naturally, the city workman’s vote being
very valuable, somebody sees to it that he
gets his wages, even though they are small.
The peasant farmer, on the other hand, hav-
ing been jockeyed out of any voting power
that really counts, gets what his rulers fix
for his surplus product. So Ivan Clodski,
who can realty do with very little, mani-
fests very little interest in having a surplus.
He may be showing less interest than usual
just now, because the regulations about
trading and other matters, which were re-
laxed for a while, have been tightened under
the Stalin regime. The system is clumsy
and amateurish, and if the accumulated
capital which was “nationalised” at the
great confiscation 10 years ago is spent,
difficulties are likely to increase; and foreign
relief committees can’t always rush to the
relief of the starving people as in 1921-22.
Yet it is hard to think out any scheme
which would be much better and still en-
able half a million people, including thieves
and other criminals, to hold down the
biggest nation on earth.
♦
Kings in Egypt.
The dissolution of the Egyptian Chamber
of Deputies and Senate for the space of
three years marks the passing, for the time
being at least, of one of those tragicom-
edies of representative government which
altruistic Britain has of late years been
staging for the delectation of peoples who
are utterly unfitted by tradition, tempera-
ment or training to comprehend them. In
Egypt, as in India, the bestowal of self-
determination on the native population has
amounted to nothing more than the handing
of control over to the most wordy and
worthless sections of the community. The
Bengali Babu has his counterpart in the
Egyptian Effendi. The first instinct of
either is to attempt the ousting of the
authority that has given them their oppor-
tunity, and without whose protection both
would return to the pit whe'nce they were
digged.
The measure of independence granted to
the Egyptians was fairly complete. They
were given control of the country and its
affairs, about the only reservations by
Britain being those relating to the control
of the Suez canal, a vital artery of the
Empire outside Egypt and a private under-
taking in which Britain was the principal
shareholder. The Egyptian showed his
appreciation of his new status by inaugurat-
ing a regime of political sabotage and
assassination. The passing of the firebrand
Zaghlul Pasha only made matters worse,
and his successors, without his ability, have
succeeded in extending the disruption that
made a change in methods of government
inevitable.
Under the constitution the King can now
carry on the government under the advice
of his Ministers until such time as a return
to Parliamentary government may seem
advisable. The outlook is not hopeful. King
Fuad is typical of his class, a favorite-led
reactionary. While he lasts, the mass of
the Egyptians are likely to have good reason
to regret the passing of British control, which
at least gave them justice and security, and
could not be bought or sold by anyone.
When he goes, in his turn, and is succeeded
again by direct British overlordship, as
seems exceedingly probable, the return to
the old conditions is likely to be welcomed
by those who have found that even stolid
King Log is in every way preferable to
insatiable King Stork.
♦-
Genius and Birth Control.
Ludovici, the Italian pjublicist, in a Book
attacking the current universal enthusiasm
for birth control, maintains that in limit-
ing families to four (the European average)
A TRAGEDY WITHOUT WORDS.
couples are denying heredity the scope it
needs to produce superior minds. To prove
that genuises tend to arrive late, ,he in-
stances Voltaire, Rembrandt and Cecil
Rhodes, who were fifth children; Herrick,
Huxley, Jane Austen and Darwin, who
were seventh; Bach, who was an eighth;
Ben Franklin, John Hunter and Cole-
ridge, who were tenth; Sir Thomas Law-
rence, who was a sixteenth; Wesley, who
was an eighteenth; and Edward Lear, who
was a twenty-first. None of their brothers
and sisters were of much consequence, so if
the doctrine of Marie Stores had been cur-
rent in their day, the world would have
lost a mort of intellect. In Australia, where
the average family is even less than four,
the loss w r ould seem to be appalling.
But there is a flaw in Ludovici’s reason-
ing. A high infantile death-rate always
goes with a high birth-rate; so probably as
many geniuses were slaughtered in the past
after birth as now are before. For a
general low average of human achievement,
Asia, the most prolific mother, bears away
the palm. The entire Malay race, through
all its recorded history, can lay claim to
only two mildly superior men —Raden
Saleh, the Javanese painter, and Rizal,
the Filipino patriot; and Malaya knows
not Miss Stopes.
The Solomons.
“Mataram”: Politically there is diversity of
opinion in the Solomons as in other coun-
tries. Thus it was asserted by “Malaita”
(B. 11/4/’2B) that settlers were hungering
for Australian control. Later, at a meeting
of the Planters’ Association, it was unani-
mously decided that a Crown Colony was
the panacea for local political ills. Later
still the. writer was present at a meeting of
another branch of the association, at which
the proposal to barrack for a Crown Colony
was received with no enthusiasm whatever.
As I know them, the white settlers are not
hungering to become Crown Colonists any
more than they are hungering for Australian
control.
Notwithstanding the many handicaps inci-
dental to settling and reorganising admini-
stration in ex-enemy territory, it is already
announced that legislation is to be intro-
duced in the near future to provide for
public representation in a legislative
assembly at Rabaul, New Guinea. That is
only as it should be; still, Australia is to be
commended for voluntarily taking a wise
and timely step to assure for the people
resident in her island territory a measure of
control over their own affairs.
If the Powers who control the Solomons,
whether they be in Suva or Downing-street,
would awake to their responsibilities long
enough to emulate Australia’s example, and
constitute a European elective legislature,
with provision for a generous number of
nominated representatives for natives—who
are not sufficiently advanced to take on the
job for themselves—there would be much
less dissatisfaction.
Such a measure would probably serve
adequately for the time being; but no one
whose vision is capable of ranging beyond
the narrow limits of minor politics can fail
to realise that ultimately either Australian
or Maoriland control and jurisdiction must
extend to every island and group of islands
that fly the British flag in the South Pacific.
#—
Canada and Ah Sin.
Canada is having trouble with Ah Sin,
just as California had a decade or so ago.
British Columbia’s present population is
600,000, of which 43,000 are Asiatics. The
male yellow man is to the white ditto as
one is to six. Also he is increasing faster;
his birth-rate is reckoned to be three times
as great as his white brother’s.
Lacking a stringent restriction law, the
British Columbians increased the poll-tax on
the arriving Oriental from £lO to £5OO. But
his smile only broadened. China carries
communal organisations like guilds to an
extravagant degree, and the wealthy Ah
Sin found the bond on behalf of his coolie
friend, taking it out of his hide in debtor-
slavery afterwards. Faced with a situation
perilous to white supremacy, the Canadians
have lately taken to private measures of
alleviation. Landowners are pledging them-
selves to lease no more land to Orientals.
The Government has stepped in with
measures to prevent Ah Sin undermining
white industry by working longer hours
for lower wages than those fixed by law;
and there is a rising public clamor for the
suppression of the gambling dens and opium
joints which the Chinaman takes with him
wherever he goes, just as a Scotchman takes
a golf course.
Altogether, Ah Sin is finding the shores
of the white Pacific becoming steadily less
friendly, and if he wants to obtain relief
for his chronic over-population he will have
to practise personal restraint or look else-
where. The latest population figures issued
by the Chinese post office, the only reliable
counting machine in the Republic, give
486,000,000 for 1926 as against 436,000,000
lor 1923. A lot of “self-restraint” or a lot
of “elsewhere” will be required to absorb
an annual increase of nearly 17,000,000.
♦
The Underfed Children.
An allegation that little children were
being starved and sent to school under-
fed, because their fathers were out of work
in the Cessnock coalfields, recently led the
Ma State’s Education Department to in-
vestigate, and a doctor was sent
there. He examined 3600-odd
children attending the schools
and found that only 62 were in
any way mal-nourished, and of
that 62 only 21 could attribute
their condition to the parents’ un-
employment; and his results are
borne out by the experience of
the teachers who know the area.
The children of the farming dis-
tricts of the far North Coast,
where hookworm is rife, were in a
much worse plight, for there as
many as 7 p.c. were under weight.
As a matter of fact, the child-
ren of N.S.W. generally are very
well nourished and well devel-
oped, and where mal-nutrition
does exist it appears to be due,
not to starvation in the strict
sense, but to the use of improper
foods and to imperfect living con-
ditions (lack of fresh air). Dr.
Arthur’s scheme of “apples for
children,” modified to include
country children, as suggested re-
cently in The Bulletin by
“L.C.M.,” has much to commend
it, in view of these facts.
Statements from the people who
“lead” the unemployed, about how
the children of the worker suffer,
are not borne out by the facts,
and are merely intended to em-
barrass the Government, but they
do a lot of harm. The investiga-
tions to refute the ravings cost
money and the taxpayer has to
foot the bill. Again, the false
statements are cabled' abroad and
made much of where Australia is
not popular, and defamation in any
form always hurts. The contradic-
tory facts receive very little atten-
tion and usually get no further than
a departmental pigeon-hole or a
small paragraph in the newspapers.
:
“Incensed Islander”: One of the
shipping lines receives from the
Commonwealth Government a
lgrge subsidy to maintain, among
others, a six-weekly sailing to the
Solomons. Passengers whose homes
are in the islands, or whose busi-
ness interests make it necessary for
them to travel from and to Aus-
tralia, are more or less adequately
catered for when there are no
tourists offering; but when trippers
roll up regular travellers are in-
formed that there is no accommo-
dation available, but they can
book by the steamer sailing in
six weeks, or three months, or even
a later date. There were in Syd-
ney in July business men and
plantation employees who sought
to book in April for the June sail-
ing, and were compelled to wait until
August; and this because the Mataram is
booked up with tourists on pleasure trips.
Can’t the Home Department do anything
for us? Surely it isn’t for the development
of a tourist trade that Australia pays its
taxes into this shipping subsidy!
♦
Something ought to be done with these
people who visit Australia and give their
unsolicited opinions of the country and its
inhabitants. Dame Greville, who said we
were a mob of snobs, was followed by a
French literary person who cursed every-
thing in the country from its culture to its
Canberra. Now Mr. Moxon, whose lips
have been touched with the chrism of Mos-
cow, where he spent some years, has
informed us that Moscow does not approve
of McCormack or his Labor Government
in Queensland, and requests that they be
Removed at the next elections as a pre-
liminary to the inauguration of the Musco-
vite millennium. The Communist brother-
hood is accordingly making prepara-
tions for the removal of the persons objected
to by Cutthroatski and Co. No one seems
to be considering the advisability of remov-
ing the brotherhood as the simplest solu-
tion of an offensive problem.


EXQUISITE SHOULDER BROOCHES OF
DIAMONDS, WITH ONYX AND PLATINUM
These are the" latest mode as worn by the smart world abroad. We import
the diamonds duty free, unset, and mount them here, following London and
Paris designs, and are thus able to offer the newest fine jewellery fashions
at bedrock price.
fag or>
Fine Diamonds and Black Onyx, set
in platinum and 18ct. white gold.
Shown actual size, £75.
Diamonds in delightful setting, in
all-platinum Brooch. Shown actual
size, £92/10/
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
plain figures. 23 and 25 HUNTER STREET. CASH ONLY.
-Such a reputation is not won overnight”
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9 d ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ 20 for 1/6
Ifotfcr Drapkin d? Co.. London.
Branch of The United
Kingdom Tobacco Co., Ltd.
7©
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Pfella”: Are there any older blackboys
(grass-trees) than those along the sou’-
west coast of Jarrahland? Bush botanists
reckon that some of the hoary-headed old
beggars are well ever their second century.
I saw one with a 14-foot spear, the base
of which was three inches in diameter.
During the rainy season, there is no better
shelter than an old-man blackboy.
* * .1! *
“Quartpot”: “Mullarula” (B. 25/7/’2B)
can’t understand why some Australian
THE SCHOLAR OF THE FAMILY.
“What’s the meanin’ of that printin’ on it, Bill?”
“That! Aw, that’s Latin for ‘After the Motor Accident!”
timbers will rot in the ground though found
by experience to last for years if not in
contact with it. The reason is that the
rotting is caused by bacteria in the ground.
Belah, as he says, will last longer in un-
familiar ground than in its native haunts,
but it is by no means unique in this respect;
the same is true of various types of euca-
lypts and also cypress pine. It seems reason-
able to suppose that, while in their own
ground trees have plenty of creatures wait-
ing to get to work on them when they die,
organisms in a different soil have to acquire
the flavor before the timber suffers much.
* * -M *
“Bex-G.N.G.”: I saw a dukduJc the other
day. Instead of being eaten by
cannibals, or shooed hastily out,
I Avas made welcome and adorned
with a fathom of tambu —native
money—to indicate that I was
an honored guest. The dukduk,
according to the missions, is a
terrible show leading to all soj;ts
of wickedness among the New
Britain natives. The Itabaul
Times told a fearsome tale about
a native having been killed and
eaten by the secret society. The
dear old souls who took me in
were harmless. They prepared a
mess of taro, cocoanut paste,
burned fish and galip-nuts in a
big leaf basket, about six feet
by four feet, and banked it with
kulaus (drinking oocoanuts).
Then the dukduk dancer, making
a noise like a dozen frightened
cockatoos, summoned all the
men of tjie village to the feed,
capering around on the beach
and waggling his leaf-petticoats
about. The men came in, an old
man and a warrior solemnly
threw betel-nuts in opposite
directions, the grass-skirt was
solemnly burned, somebody said
a grace picked up from the mis-
sion, and everybody hopped in
to the kaikai. It was something
after the style of a Methodist
bun-struggle in Slocum-under
Swallop.
“Bad Australian”: “Drover” (B. 4/7/’2B)
is right in his assertion that the mule is
superior to the horse as a transport animal,
despite “Soda’s” somewhat ambiguous con-
tention to the contrary (B. 25/7/’2B).
Vv eight for weight the hardy hybrid is far
ahead of his half-brother, and he will work
and thrive on country and feed that would
kill a horse in a week. Ten years’ experience
of his patience and endurance leaves me in
no doubt as to his superiority. He will do
more work on less feed and water than a
horse; he will carry a heavier load for a
longer time on flat country; and he will
hump the same burden with absolute safety
over mountain pads that a horse could
not be induced to venture on. He is as sure-
footed as a goat, and steady and reliable in
places where a horse would become excited,
lose its head and go overside, and he will
trudge patiently along for hour after hour
through snow, where a horse would rush and
plunge for the first mile or two and then
peter out. On one job we used about 800
mules, and among other things these animals
carried gravel, cement, sleepers, building tim-
ber. Steel rails, machinery, sheet and
bar iron, cast-iron water-pipes, American
organs, baggage trunks and dynamite over
some of the roughest and most dangerous
tracks in the world. Dead men in pairs, emi-
nent statesmen, foreign ambassadors, globe-
trotters of high tonnage, members of our
A THING TO ENVY.
NEW ARRIVAL IN HADES: “ ’Ow long ’ave yer bin down ’ere, mate?”
OLD HAND: “Two thousand years.”
NEW ARRIVEAL: “Cripes! Yer must ’ave a luvverly thirst!”
old nobility, bishops, bandits and ladies of
easy virtue were carried by - the same reli-
able animals and delivered as safely as the
dynamite. And the mules did this on a few
kilos of lucerne hay at the beginning and
end of the day, at elevations ranging from
9000 ft. to 14,000 ft. above sea-level. We used
a few horses for vehicular traffic and as
hacks where there was a made road, but they
were quite useless on the rough pads or for
heavy packing at such altitudes.
* * * *
“Up North”: After the wet season in the
N.T. the grasses over hundreds of square
miles bear countless seeds —a pest to man and
beast. Blankets and horse-cloths are full
of them every morning, spiked, barbed,
sticky, clinging, clawed. _ All the fiendish
ingenuity of Nature is put into their fashion-
ing. Horses’ tails become matted lumps,
too heavy to swat a fly. Some seeds even
penetrate the eyelids when the prads are
feeding, and may cause blindness, if one is
not watchful. A man has to carefully
examine his pack saddles every morning; a
stray seed overlooked would give a horse a
sore back by nightfall or cause him to bolt.
Even birds are pestered by grass-seeds,
especially those of the sticky variety, which
cling to their feathers and claws.
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: The daddy of all out-
back wood-ca'-vers was a shearer in. Groper-
land’s Nor’-West. who was painfully shy.
Once he carved out of a chunk of sandal-
wood a perfect figure of a lady in the nude.
All the hands made ribald jokes about it,
some of which reached the ears of the boss.
He sneaked it away to show his wife, who
was no beauty, though gifted with a sense
of humor. Later she complimented the artist
on his work. “But, Jim,” she said, “I could
never imagine you studying the shape of a
woman, even in her clothes?” Poor Jim red-
dened down to his feet, and he couldn’t articu-
late a word. Again came the voice of the
missus: “I’ll never go bathing in the river
again while you’re knocking around the dis-
trict.” Much against his will, James stayed
out the season’s clip, but he never turned up
at that station again.
* * * *
“Te Babarantiko”: I don’t share “Gou-
ger’s” faith in medicine men’s hocus-pocus
(B. 25/7/’2B). Once, long ago, when I had
a headache as if a bolt with the nut on was
hammered from temple to temple, a “healer”
acquaintance insisted upon treating it. Dip-
ping finger-ends lightly into a basin of water
he flipped the drops off —or else my headache
would pass to him, he explained—and passed
his digits firmly over my temples and fore-
head. The fingering was soothing, and might
have banished an ordinary headache —mine
remained. His gravity was sarcasm-proof.
“You’ll be right as rain,” he said at the
end of the stance. “Typhoid; 10G.4—you
should be dead with that temperature.
Hospital.” a dinkum medicine man told me
next morning. Subsequently I knew other
medicine men throughout the Pacific Islands
to New Guinea and beyond. In Tanimaiaki,
on a Micronesian atoll, I met Nene, whose
eyesight was failing. He, accepted treat-
ment by a female practitioner of another
village, who claimed some remarkable cures.
She put some stuff of her own concoction
into his eyes and did other painful things to
them. After the treatment Nene’s wife
towed him along on the end of a stick. The
medicine woman had made him stone blind.
* * * *
“Dai R.”: One day at Walgctt (N.S.W.)
my father was hunting two lost horses, one
of which was belled. Suddenly lie thought
he heard, quite close at hand, the jangle of
a bell. With a busliman’s promptitude he
stopped dead, and as he did so a huge box
limb fell so close to him that it -struck the
toe of his boot. A search on horseback
later in the day showed that there were no
horses, belled or otherwise, in the 3000-acre
paddock in which the incident occurred.
Though he wasn’t - at all superstitious, my
father remained deeply impressed with the
incident for the rest of his days.
* * * *
“A.H.8.”: According to the legend, the
Aotea canoe, under Turi, brought the ances-
tors of the Taranaki tribes from Hawaiki,
and quite the most useful item in her varied
cargo was the kumara, or native sweet
potato. When the migrants finally settled
at Patea, the kumaras remaining were
planted at Hekehekeipapa, on the site of the
present pilot station. It was Rongorongo,
Turi’s wife, who broke the soil with her
sacred timotimo, and very carefully recited
the appropriate incantations. Her efforts
were successful; all Taranaki traditions
record the abundant kumara crops of earlier
times. But the Maoris didn’t worry about
rotation of crops, and here and there in
Taranaki to-day cultivation produces noth-
ing but a ready crop of sorrel. In these spots
the soil has been exhausted by centuries of
kumara cultivation.
* 4 * *
“E.S.”: Mention of opal always reminds
me of Jack Davison, widely known as Opal
Jack, a Queensland drover who had an opal
claim on Duck Creek, and was for years
head-stockman on Thylungra. On the track
one of his packliorses always carried a swag
of opal, mostly blue stuff, which he unpacked
at pub or roadside whenever there was a
chance of selling a gem or two. He liked
to have squatters and cattle-buyers pull up
at his camp at meal times on the road. He
gave them the best dinner available, enter-
tained them with quaint reminiscences, then
brought out his treasure bag and asked in
the blandest manner if they would like to
buy some opal. A good many of Jack’s
guests felt an obligation to buy something,
and they acted accordingly. At one camp
several gems disappeared, but a shrewd abo.
soon recovered them. “Berrer look out here,
boss,” he said. “Little pfella bower-bird
like opal play with, ’n’ if you leave ’em
spread about him steal the plurry lot.”
(Continued on page 25.)
WHAT JIM FOUNT) OUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I useter wonder once,” said Jim,
"Why things would go the way they did.
I always kept well in the swim
Right from the time I Was a kid.
An’, lemme tell you fair an’ square,
Among the shrewdies, ’eads an’ such
That you blokes all go nap on, there
Ain’t many that could learn me much.
“There’s somethin’, p’r’aps, in what they say
(They say so much there ought to be),
An’ it’s quite likely, too, that they
Can pitch a better tale than me.
I give you all your knowalls in,
I’ve found this out about the game:
The bloke who gives a dinkum spin
Can mostly reckon on the same.
“I’ve seen a lot an’ ’eard a lot,
An’ read a lot, too, take my tip;
An’ most of it’s been blanky rot,
Stuff that a man could well let rip.
For, in the end, you must come back
To the same place where you began:
It ain’t in books, it’s on the track
A feller gits to know a man.
“I useter wonder once about
The way things went; I’d always screw
Them off a bit; what I’ve found out
Ain’t much maybe, but it’ll do;
An’ it won’t overtax your wits,
An’ it won’t strain nobody’s nerves:
I’ve found a feller mostly gits
The kind of cobber ’e deserves.”
W.A.
4
OSCAR WALTER.


Sfc* Victory Six
I
r
Outperforms Every Motor Car
in its Price Class
You need not look far to ex-
plain the fact that Dodge
Brothers Victory Six out-
performs every motor car in
its price class.
The reason is an engine of
amazing flexibility and per-
formance, delivering more
power per pound of car
weight than any car in its
class.
This astonishing flexibility
and performance is made
safe and practical in the
Victory by the quality of
Dodge Brothers materials,
the high character of Dodge
Brothers workmanship, and
the many new and advanced
features of Victory design.
Drive the Victory and you
will understand why this
unique Six is everywhere
proclaimed a Victory in
automotive engineering.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Harden & Johnston, Limited, Sydney
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville
Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland, N.Z.
Amuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, N.Z.
Cossens and Black, Ltd. .. Dunedin, N.Z.
P. H. Vickery, Ltd. .. Invercargill, N.Z.
Newton King, Ltd. .. New Plymouth, N.Z.
Magnus Motors, Ltd. .. Wellington, N.Z.
w
MOTOR CARS
22/8/’2B.


20
for
1/6
STOTE ftpRfSS
333
CIGARETTES
777
ARDATH
TOBACCO
CO., LTD.,
LONDON.
Plain or IVORY Tipped.
Cork Tipped.
£5OO
in Cash Prizes
“State Exoressettes” is a fascinating Competition with
handsome prizes for the winners. See daily papers for
full particulars of this interesting Competition. Closing
date, September 8.
Send your entries without delay. '
These packings
are all eligible for
the Competition.
Have you tried*
333
with the, NEW
PERFECTED
IVORY TIPS-
“Mullarula”: Rabbits are the only animals
I know that sink wells. Some of the swamps
of south-western N. S. Wales have silt
feet deep, and when- the water dries away
and the upper silt becomes stiff mud Bunny
will dig through it. The moisture soaks
in and fills the hole thus formed, and the
well-worn pads show that the tanks are
visited frequently, though the water is
generally so full of soda that it tastes more
like soapsuds than anything else.
RINGING THE CHANGES.
INQUISITIVE STRANGER: “What’s the bally bell round the cows neck for, fawmer?"
Dad (rather fed up): “Well, yer see, Mister, that there cow’s a champeen milker, an’
every time she makes a new record the blanky bell rings!”
“Shep”: Yic. isn’t the only State (B.
l/8/’2B) that has a record of trout acclima-
tisation. N.S.W. started in earnest as far
back as 188 S, when trout fry from Gee-
long were distributed in the Picton Lakes,
the Wollondilly and the Upper Shoalhaven.
Since that time trout eggs and fry have been
imported in large numbers from Maoriland
and the Speck. Most of the hatching was
carried out at the Prospect Reservoir, whence
the fry have been forwarded all over the
State, till at the present time there are over
a thousand miles of trout-stocked streams.
Supplementary hatcheries are now located
on the Thredbo and also at Guyra and Glen
Innes.
jfc ;jc
“Sea Nomad”: Because a sleepy “boy”
piled the cutter on a reef, we had a trip
across the Strait in an
open dinghy. There was
not a breath of wind, so
we took quick spells at
the oars and prayed for
the nor’-west to lie low.
Night came bringing
heavens massed with gol-
den stars and a sea that
was a plain of dark-green
velvet. On the horizon
a star appeared, a red
star that grew fast in
foaming splashes of green.
It spread until it was a
pathway, then a road,
hundreds of yards wide,
with its head tearing to-
wards us foaming with
many-colored lights. In a
few minutes it seemed as
if all the fish in the
Coral Sea were flying to
smash us down. The gigantic shoal
burst upon the dinghy with a hiss-
ing of phosphorescent spray and a
tattoo of flying bodies on wood. We
were forced to turn the dinghy bow
on, and found that paddling was
impossible against the impact of
racing bodies. Half a dozen shoals
appeared all mixed up, big fellows
preying on the welterweights, giants
on the big fellows and sharks dash-
ing through the lot in luminous
streaks of hissing foam. One man
kept the dinghy bow on while all
hands threw out the glittering fish
that otherwise would have swamped us. It
was half an hour before that mad fury of
fish had passed us, and our arms ached from
the labor of clearing the dinghy.
* * * *
“Hillard”: Apropos of cannibal mice (B.
11/7/’2B). In my shack at Memerambi
(Q.) during the mice plague of 1917 I was
awakened by the sound of a small light spring-
trap being trailed over the floor. Investi-
gating cautiously, I found that an ordinary
mouse (not a black one) was dining on one
in the trap. He had eaten the captive’s head,
and was going on to tastier parts when 1
interrupted him.
* * * *
“Don Lee”: Despite the general belief that
the jackass and magpie are the earliest
risers in Birdland, I award the worm to a
member of the tit family. (His scientific
name is best forgotten.) The clear, pene-
trating call of this tiny gentleman can be
heard long before dawn, and his vocal powers
are far above the average. Unlike the
majority of tits, who are among the
cleverest of feathered architects, he is con-
tent to seek seclusion and rear a family of
three in a small hollow spout of a giant
old gum. His dress is usually shabby, con-
sisting of a fawn coat, a dirty white vest
and a rust-colored cap.
“Eureka”: I have seen strange mirages out
on the plains, but nothing stranger than one
I witnessed recently «ose to Sydney. From
the cliffs of Little Bay, near the Coast Hospi-
tal, one could see, inverted, the cliffs an
the sea near the heads of Botany Bay ie-
fleeted in low clouds that were hanging oier
THE CATCH IN IT.
BOSS: “If I miss him, Jacky, d’you think you could be quick enough to catch his tail?
JACKY ( reluctantly): “Mine tinkit I bin quick enough to catch ’im boss, but mine tinkit
I not bin quick enough to letem go.”
the coast. Presently two steumers came
into view; they were also reflected, upside
down, in the clouds. After ten minutes or
so the clouds began to lift and the reflections
faded away. Years ago visitors to Lcho
Point, Katoomba, saw the lights of Sydney
reflected in t\ic mists hovering over the
Jamieson Valley. Here again everything was
inverted, and as the mists rose the scene
faded away.
* * * *
“Homfrey Beale”: Among the rugged
mountains a few miles out of Kiewa (Vic.)
are many excavations that range m diameter
from a big shellhole to a large-sized Govern-
ment tank, and vary in depth from 10 to 50
feet. They are obviously man-made. Many
whites aver that they were a kind of temple
where the most secret tribal rites were held
in Binghi’s heyday. the present-day
blacks of the locality have a much more
prosaic theory. They say that the hollows
were the salt licks of vast herds of kangaroos,
wallabies and smaller fry.
* * ■ * *
“Lucifer”: “AdeL.,” in relating how the
Gulf blacks escape from the mosquitoes (B.
18/7/’2B), forgets the smoke platforms.
These are built of bark on a framework of
poles about six feet off the ground. Under-
neath in the evening the smoke fires are lit
and are fed intermittently all night. The
abos. then sleep in a cloud of smoke guaran-
teed to choke mosquitoes and white men.
* * * *
“Sea Nomad”; In a shaded banana-garden
in Torres Strait ! saw a picturesque emblem
revolving from a branch. It was a large
but perfectly round stone, painted coral-
red, suspended by a red oord of twisted
cocoa-husk. It was artistically decorated
with palm-leaves to resemble the rays of the
sun, the leaves painted in varying shades
of crimson—a charm imploring the sun to
shine out and warm the cold gardens to life
after weeks of rain. The gardens hold quite
a number of charms, some of them effigies of
departed supermen, others bearing queer
hieroglyphs. The islanders still remember
their old deities, and I don’t think they will
ever quite forget them.
* * * *
“Te W.” : The theory that snakes hiber-
nate is a delusion very hard to dispel.
Recently a man was bitten by a snake on
antarctic Monaro (N.S.W.), where, if any-
where, in midwinter the snakes should all
be asleep. As a matter of fact, they don’t
lie up entirely during winter, but on bright
days sun themselves just outside their holes.
.;. * * *
“Penn”: All the witch doctors are not
black. We were travelling through Helidon
(Q.) when our best horse went down with
what appeared to be a severe atack of dr>
gripes. Every amateur vet. in town volun-
teered assistance, and every known cure
gripes was tried without success. At last
a German farmer with a great reputation as
a faith-healer was sent for. He ran ms
hands along the horse’s back from the tips
of the ears to the butt of the tail, muttering
a Teutonic prayer the while. He kept up
the ritual for about half an hour; at length
the horse heaved himself up on las leet.
But it was only a final rally, and in a tew
minutes he was down again for the last
time. A post-mortem showed a bowel
stoppage that dynamite would scarcely have
shifted, let alone a laying on of hands but
the healer insisted that nothing but lack ot
faith had prevented a cure. Whether our
faith or the moke’s was at fault he did not
mention.
# * * *
“G.T.C.”: “Biro” (B. 4/7/’2B) is wrong
in saying that scorpions bring forth their
young alive and suggesting that nourish-
ment is given to the young by their mother.
They are egg-born. It’s true they swarm all
over their mother, but if they get within
reach of her jaws she snaps them up with-
out the .slightest sign of compunction.
*{s =l= * *
“Pick”: The doe kangaroo’s pouch can
he closed tightly enough to stop the ingress
of water and still contain sufficient air for
the joey inside. Shingle-splitting m the
forests of Coolumbooka (N.S.W.), my
mates and I were attracted by the barking
of our cattle-dog, which had left us m the
morning to chivvy some ’roos over the range.
We found him gyrating about a dam in
which there was a ’roo up to its neck m
the water. Concluding that he would never
have bailed the thing up unless there was
a young we cursed him off und watched.
After a time the fugitive hopped timidly up
the dam-head and the shaking head of a
gasping young ’roo emerged from the pouch.
The little fellow seemed none the worse for
his submarining as his mother slowly loped
away to the scrub.
* * * *
“Claude W7’: In many parts of N.Q
Nature has provided travellers with a first-
class stove, the white-ant nest. Once lighted,
the interior of these nests glow like asbes-
tos ; all you have to do is to cut a round
hole in the top and cook your food over it.
Plug the hole up when leaving and you’ll
find the fire still alight six months later.
* * * *
“Carisbrook, Jun.” : Fumigation of pearling
luggers to get rid of cockroaches is hardly
ever resorted to on the Westralian coast;
it has been found useless in checking the
pest The only satisfactory method is to
sink the boat. Accordingly, when lay-up
season arrives, everything removable is taken
and stowed ashore, and the water-cocks are
opened, to be closed again at low tide,
when, the lugger is high and dry. The craft
is a clean ship when she refloats with the
next tide.
THE PICKER-UP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the clips are clipping fast,
Where the fleeces drop,
And the stands are, first to last,
Like a blanket shop,
One amongst the shearers cast,
Thumps his name as l e goes past—
Wop Wop.
Every call of “Wool away !”
Makes him skip and hop,
Grab the fleece without delay,
Throw it with a flop;
Up and down the board all day,
Bounding to the shearers’ bray—
Wop Wop.
Feet encased in moccasins,
With the wool on top,
From the tick each run begins,
Got no time to stop;
Ever up and down he spins,
Rushing to and from the bins—
Wop Wop.
Fieces, fleeces, belly-wool,
Stains and locks a-slop,
Keep him ever off the stool,
Gathering the crop;
Tool of drummer, gun and fool,
Darting, dancing, never cool,
Wop Wop.
When the classer growls afar,
“Spread ’em out, you sop!”
When the shearers yell for tar,
Where they rip or chop.
With long leaps that shake and jar,
Goes the flying pick-up star,
Wop Wop.
Sweeping here and tarring there,
With his broom and mop,
Sudden yells from everywhere
Make him jump and prop,
Keei) him on his jog austere
Through the dusty atmosphere,
Wop Wop.
At the bell or whistle-o,
lie’s alert to pop
’Cross the board as Combs and Co.
Off their fleeces lop;
Then he whizzes to and fro
With a wild fortissimo,
Wop Wop.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
Wants.
By two active young men of good character
position on farm or station. Go anywhere.
—5960.
By Englishman (Vic.) thoroughly domes-
ticated, experience grocery and provisions,
job helping in house; fill in time clerical
work. No milking. Refs. —5966.
By young man wishing to continue studies,
good home near Sydney in return for light
services, manual or clerical. —5967.
By returned soldier, married, assistance
to purchase fishing-boat and gear. Will give
mortgage on boat, and refs.—6o22.
By plumber (24), married, 12 years’ ex-
perience in all branches of the trade, especi-
ally tanks, temperate, good refs., own car, job
anywhere, N.S.W. or Q’land preferred.—
6006.
By Englishman, position in scouring and
milling department of woolleu mills, pre-
ferably Tas. —6001.
By experienced manageress, management
of flats or building, Sydney. Will give sub-
stantial securities. Ex. refs.—6os9.
By experienced boundary rider (48) posi-
tion on sheep station, any State. —6059.
By typist, three years’ experience, posi-
tion town or country, N.S.W. Own motor-
cycle.—6os6.
By young man (24) North-Ireland immi-
grant, just lost leg, clerical position in
N.S.W. or some other light work. —5951.
By returned soldier, plans and specifica-
tions for a weatherboard cottage, four rooms
and bathroom, iron roof, to cost about £560.
—6033.
By commercial traveller, young, energetic,
good appearance, shop experience, job. Vic.
preferred.—6o4s.
To sell new cottage, Good-street, May’s
Hill, Westmead, Parramatta (N.S.W.) ; gas,
elec, light, etc. £7OO. —5958.
To sell Nichol’s “Seamanship,” Bs.; Nichol’s
“Concise Guide,” 125.; Norrie’s “Epitome”
(Logs), 17s. 6d.; “Naval Manual Seaman-
ship,” Vol. 2, 45.; “American Naval Seaman-
ship Manual/’ 10s.; Saul’s Easy Trigono-
metry, 55.; 50s. the lot, postage paid. In
good condition. —5970.
To sell oil-painting “The Sydney-Emden
Fight,” by John Allcott, 28in. x 14in., heavy
gilt frame, £5.-5971.
To sell “The Isle of San,” by Leon Gellert,
with five Norman Lindsay etchings. Perfect
condition.—s 974.
To buy copies Moore’s “Will'Warburton”
and Gissing’s “Nether World.” Exchange
or purchase. (To H. V. Edwards, Bega,
N.S.W.)
To buy W. T. Goodge’s “Hits, Skits and
Jingles.”—s9Bl.
To communicate with breeder of French
white Angora rabbits in Australia.—s9ss.
Words of recitation entitled “An Irish
Cricket Match,” by Martin. —5964.
To buy, in Sydney, a woodeu canoe over
10ft. 10ng.—6025.
To buy Rev. J. E. Tenison Woods’s
“Geological Formation and Mineralogical
Deposits of Australia.”—s9B7.
To exchange for motor-car or sell, two
100 ft. blocks at Belgrave (Vic.). View over-
looking reservoirs; £l2O the two, or car of
that value. —5998.
To buy West magazine (English), Vol.
6, No. 9, early May; and West (American),
Vol. 12, No. 1 ; 2s. each. — 5989.
Words of song, “The Body in the Bag.”—
5995.
To let, cottage, Bondi (Sydney), over-
looking beach. ’Phone, player piano, four
bedrooms, sitting- and dining-rooms. De-
cember and Jan. £6 6s. week. —5997.
To buy clean copy of Gossip’s “There and
Back.” (To George Fitzpatrick, 21 Mac-
quarie-place, Sydney.)
To buy second-hand Webster’s Dictionary
and “Encyclopaedia Britannica.” Give date
of edition and price.—6062.
To sell Sands’s N.S.W. Directories, 1926
and 1927, back numbers “Lloyd’s Shipping
Registers” and large office safe.—6o47.
To sell two allotments in Redcliffe, near
Brisbane. Good soil and drainage, suitable
for poultry farm. —6054.
Copies of radical poems by Australian
authors or information as to where they
could be obtained.—6o32.
Information Sought.
How can I repair galvaniscd-iron wash-
tubs which have become rusted? —6004.
If only slightly rusted, scrub with a brush
dipped in caustic soda, taking care not to
let the soda touch your hands. When
thoroughly dry, apply two thin coats of flat
paint and then a coat of enamel. If a second
coat is necessary smooth off the first coat with
sandpaper before applying. If badly rusted,
a cement lining is recommended.
(1) Is Sudan grass good summer feed for
sheep? (2) When should it be sown? (3)
Where is seed procurable? (4) How much
seed per acre? (5) Does it respond to super-
phosphate?—s696.
(1) It is a useful crop in the drier parts
of N.S.W., being grown chiefly for grazing.
(2) In the drier parts of N.S.W., Sept, or
early October plantings give best results.
Crops from later sowings are often choked
out to a considerable extent by fat hen. (3)
Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney. (4) 6d. per
lb., f.o.r. Sydney. (4) 81b. (5) Yes; use
561 b. per acre when sowing.
(1) If the father of an illegitimate child
goes to another State after an order has been
made against him for maintenance can he he
brought hackf (2) What procedure should
he adopted? —s944.
(1) Yes. (2) Proceed against him for non-
compliance with the order. If he does not
appear a warrant for his arrest and return
to the court in which the order was made
can be taken out.
What is a cure for worms in horses?
(Worms are from 2 in. to 10 in. 10ng.) —5927.
For the long stomach worms, starve horse
overnight and next morning give a drench
consisting of loz. oil of turpentine, 1 pint
raw linseed oil. Repeat this drench in about
a fortnight’s tune. For small blood worms
found in the large intestines give two table-
spoonfuls of Fowler’s solution of arsenic in
the morning feed for 10 days, then twice a
week for another month. In both instances
supply salt in the horse’s food or in the form
of a lick. Keep yards in a sanitary con-
dition so as to prevent contamination of
water or food with manure infested with
parasitic larvae.
What is the meaning of the following tech-
nical terms: (1) Crown grant. (2) Crown
lease. (3) Crown allotment. (4) Conditional
purchase. (5) Freehold. (6) Selection. (7)
Western, land lease? —6026.
(1) The freehold title issued when all
moneys due to the Crown for land have been
paid. (2) Title for land leased from the
Crown, with or without the right of pur-
chase. (3) Applies only to the number or
letter identifying the holding. (4) Implies
the right to acquire freehold if certain con-
ditions are fulfilled. (5) Full title to land.
(6) Crown land which has been awarded to
an applicant on ballot. (7) A term applic-
able to N.S.W. only, meaning land leased
through the Western Land Board.
(1) What is the best- analysis of oil yet
recorded in Australia? (2) Have any samples
of crude oil been obtained that can definitely
be stated to be of quality worth refining if
quantities could be got? j[3) What is petro-
lene? (4) Of the discoveries of petrolene,
mineral wax, chloroform, etc., in bores sunk
for icater, have any samples indicated that
commercial quantities of a quality worth re-
fining might be recovered if water was shut
off and the bore swabbed? —5931.
(1) There is no such thing as a best analy-
sis. Volatile oils have been obtained from natu-
ral gases. (2) All depends on the definition
of crude oil. (3) Petrolene is the name given
to that portion of an asphalt which is soluble
in naphtha. (4) Anything might happen;
there is a hopeless division of opinion as to
whether anything valuable in commercial
quantities would be recovered.
(1) What would be a suitable powder to
give a dog for distemper? (2) What should
I give for a dog, just in racing condition,
for severe bowel trouble? (3) What is the
best disinfectant for washing dogs? —s9ll.
(1) Can’t advise without diagnosis. (2)
Administer a dose of castor oil and syrup of
buckthorn, or an enema of soap and water
might be given. Tabloids of charcoal, bis-
muth and pepsin are helpful in some cases.
Careful feeding is essential. (3) One-half to
1 per cent, of the Cyllin preparations makes
a good wash. Ordinary soap emulsion in
which a little kerosene has been mixed is the
next best thing.
(1) How can I join the Air Force ( Pt.
Cook) ? (2) Is it possible to join as a clerk?
(3) What other openings are there? (4)
What is the minimum height? (5) How often
do vacancies occur? —sB64.
(1) Apply to the Secretary, Air Board,
Victoria Barracks, Melbourne, for application
forms and information. (2) Yes. (3) There
are openings for blacksmiths, carpenters, cop-
persmiths, draughtsmen, electricians, fitters,
instrument-makers, plumbers, turners, wire-
less operators, mechanics, wood machinists
and a number of other technical workers, a
full list of which will be found in R.A.A.F.
Publication No. 4. (4) sft. 3in. (5) Vac-
ancies occur irregularly, depending on the
establishments allowed by Parliament and
retirements.
(1) What kind of clothes would be neces-
sary for a trip to Singapore? (2) What is
the cost of living there? (3) What are the
chances of getting employment on arrival? —
5906.
(1) Plenty of white clothes are wanted.
Men as a rule wear drill suits. (2) About
25 per cent, cheaper than in Australia. (3)
Very few. It would be foolish to go there
without a definite engagement.
How can I prevent silver fish eating car-
pets?—6oo4.
Mix ioz. corrosive sublimate and-lqt. warm
water and paint floor of room. When dry
naphthaline should be strewn liberally before
replacing carpet. As an additional precau-
tion, paint the edges of the carpet with a tea-
spoon of borax dissolved in a teacup of warm
water.
What is the best dog for a companion? I
bar fox-terriers. I like the Airedale, but he’s
too big. Could I get a crossbred with Aire
dale qualities but smaller? —s7s7.
Crossbreds are not recommended. A Scot-
tish or Irish terrier ought to suit your re-
quirements.
(1) In blowing stumps with gelignite could
the firing be done with a car battery, and
what voltage would be necessary to fire 10
shots? (2) Is there any other method of
firing without using a fuse? —5654.
(1) Yes, or with a dry hot-shot 6-volt
battery. The number of shots fired doesn’t
depend on the voltage, but on the working
life of the battery. (2) Other than electric-
ally, no.
(1) What Australian Government passed
the Immigration Restriction Act, and in
what year? (2) Which countries adopted
female franchise first and in what order *—
5560.
(1) Prior to Federation all the States im-
posed immigration restrictions. After Federa-
tion the Barton Ministry passed the Immi-
gration Act of 1901, which superseded the
previously existing State laws. (2) Wyoming
U.S.A. (1569), Isle of Man (1880), Madras,
India (1885). In Australasia M.L. (1893)
and S.A. (1894).
How can I remove rust stains from a con-
crete pavement? —sBsl.
There is no certain method. Grinding off
the marks is tedious and not always suc-
cessful. Best plan is to apply a couple of
coats of some good floor enamel.
I have two carpet-snake skins each about
B ft. lon<j. The snakes had just cast their
outer skins prior to being killed. (1) Are
these skins fit for tanning for the purpose of
shoe-making? (2) How many pairs of
women’s shoes would each make? (3) Who
would undertake the tanning and making of
the shoes? (4) What would be charged for
tanning and shoe-making? —ss9s.
(1) If they haven’t dried brittle they would
be very suitable. (2) Three. (3) Johnson
and Sons, Brisbane, cfo that sort of work.
(4) For tanning, about 6s. a skin; for shoe-
making, about 255. a pair.
I am making .up the income-tax return for
a widow who runs a N.B.W. hotel. Gan I
charge against income : (1) Salary of licensee,
who works in bar and kitchen ? (2) Wages and
board of daughter of licensee, who serves in
bur and helps in dining-room? (3) Wages
and board of yardman? (4) Rent, annual
license fee and interest on capital sum paid
for ingoing? (5) What amount can be de-
ducted in respect of life-insurance premium?
(6) To whom must application be made for
income-tax forms, or should no form be sent
in unless by the request of the Taxation
Department? —s43o. .
(1) No. (2) Yes, provided services are
rendered for business and not domestic pur-
poses, and that the amount claimed is fair
value for the services rendered. (3) Yes. (4)
Rent and license fee may be deducted but
not interest on capital. (5) The amount
actually paid, not exceeding £5O. (6) Forms
are available at any post office, railway
station, C.P.S. office or police station. Any-
one in business must make a return, irrespec-
tive of amount of income.
(1) Have pigs a louse or tick peculiar to
themselves? (2) What is the method of
eradication? (3) What are the preventive
measures ? —5802.
(1) Yes, the hog louse, Hematopinus suis,
and a tick. Omithodernvus megini. (2) If a
large number of pigs arc affected with lice,
use a dipping vat and dip them every 10
days for four or five weeks. If only
a few, it is more economical to hand-dress
them with some standard dip, or to pour a
mixture of sulphur and oil over their backs.
The ticks, which are located in the external
ear, may be removed by pouring into the
ear some dilute antiseptic or bland oil. (3)
Keep the sties clean and the swine in good
condition.
Can a leaving student, having won a
Teachers’ Training College scholarship, hold
a Sydney Uni. bursary? —s9o3.
No, but he can hold a Uni. prize or
scholarship.
How can I darken a pair of very light-tan
leather leggings? —s92l.
A small bottle Universal oil dye, obtain-
able at most boot-stores (brown or dark
brown), will give a very satisfactory and
lasting color.
(1) Are tree-to-tree telephone lines in
forest country practicable in Australia over
a distance of 100 miles? (2) Can you give
any hints about construction? —5616.
(1) Yes, there are several such lines in
N,S.W. (2) A pamphlet which gives informa-
tion relating to the construction of lines on
trees is issued by the Postmaster-General’s
Department, Melbourne, and may be had on
application.
Information Supplied.
5710.—The most effective way to cleanse
sea-shells both inside and out is to bury
them for a few weeks in sand. Any fish
inside will then have died, and the refuse
can be easily cleaned out. The slime on the
outside will also have come off, and the shell
can be brightened by rubbing with a soft
piece of cloth. —“B-Gar.”
5933.—T0 polish silky oak, rub in as
much raw linseed oil as the wood will take,
and rub dry. Polish with a mixture of
lib. beeswax, loz. curd soap, 1 pint tur-
pentine, and 1 pint boiled water. Pour
turpentine oyer shredded wax and soap, and
let stand till soft, then add water cold.
Bottle, and shake well. Apply with piece
of flannel, and finish with silk. —“8.M.”
5708. —The weight of water in the tank
causes the sides to bulge and thus to open
thg soldered seams. Brace up the tank with
half a dozen galvanised lioop-iron strips
placed at intervals perpendicularly, and three
or four horizontal bands all firmly riveted to
outside corrugates. Re-solder the seams and
rivet heads and the tank will hold its full
capacity.—“ Pick.”
5495. —Stretching wires won’t improve
the acoustic properties of a church interior.
The modern way is to use two or three lqud
speakers placed at suitable points and a
microphone placed near the pulpit. Con-
sult Standard Telephones and Cables Ltd.,
or Amplion Co. of Australia. Both have
branches in all capital cities. —“L.D.”
Does Anybody Know ?
How to apply cement, paint or wash to
hessian to be used as lining for a small
r00m?—6029.
How to apply kalsomine or any other
suitable covering to an uncoated pisd wall?
—6030.
Best method of coating wood with tar,
and how to prevent sticky surface? —6002.
How to make an earth cricket pitch, on
a hard clay surface which has a tendency to
crack? —5990.
How to keep surface of gravel tennis
court in playable condition?—s93o.
How to clean ordinary 40-gallon oil-drum
without removing top or burning oil out? —
6079.
Brief Answers.
P«A.: Timor Petroleum Co., Ltd y 34
Queen-street, Melbourne; Anglo-Persian Oil Co., c/o
Dalgety and Co., Ltd., 15 Bent-street, Sydney....
8.E.: Lady Bowen Hospital, Brisbane; Lady Chelms-
ford Hospital, Bundaberg; Lady Musgrave Hospital,
Maryborough ; Women’s Hospital, Rockhampton ; and
Toowoomba Hospital, Toowoomba R.R.8.: (11
Macßobertson, Argyle and Kerr streets, Fitzroy, Vie.
(2) No information available... .E.A.K.: Only ex-
perienced men stand a chance of securing employ-
ment and there are hundreds of them out of work.
... .D.C.H.: Write to Home Sanitation Ltd., 1 Bligh-
street; and Montgomerie, Neilson and Co., 10
O’Connell-street—both of Sydney... .V.D.: We can’t
advise in the choice of specialists—or geneiral
practitioners, either... .H.H.: The machine referred
to by “Paul C.’’ is made by Greenslade Milking
Machines, Ltd., 212 Goulbum-streeit, Sydney....
D.C.T.: See Brief Answer to H.H A.G.: Demand
on space is so heavy that nothing in the way of a
standing advt. is possible It.M.S.: (1) S. A.
Burns, Ltd., 593 George-street, Sydney. (2) We are
making a search.... 8.F.G.: (1) To export native
birds you must obtain the consent in writing of
the Minister for Trade and Customs. Apply to Cus-
toms Department, Sydney, for permission. (2) If
not very young, whole corn, mixed with canary seed.
. ...Y.R.: Yes, there are islands, near neighbors, on
either side of 180 deg. long, where, as a matter of
international law —the convention of the “inter-
national date line”—one island is a day ahead of
the other. .. .E.J.F.: Not if you put safety first....
W.C.: (1) We wouldn’t make the change. (2) Which
is the better, prefs. or ords., depends on how much
risk you are prepared to take. If you want to
eliminate as much as possible, you must take prefs.
. ...A.C.: Unless your pyrites contains copper, lead
or silver, it would not be of any value at. present.
Pyrites to attract a market to-day have to contain
at least 10 p.c. more sulphur than yours, and then
would have to compete with the zinc concentrates
from Broken Hi 11... .F.S.: Plate-glass that has
become obscured cannot be restored save at excessive
cost. It would be a great deal cheaper to buy a
new pane. . . .1.M.C.: True Story Magazine, No.
1920, Broadway, New York... .R.K.: (1) See reply
to 5927. (2) A worm, Oxyuris curvula, invades the
lower part of the large intestine, where it sets up
considerable irritation. Irrigate rectum with a warm
solution of common salt and water, one dessert-
spoonful to the quart.. . .H.M.: The load would not
be detrimental to the vehicle... .1.M.C.: (1) Used
kangaroo stamps up to 2s. face value are very
plentiful and of little value. The 4d. is worth 2d.,
the sd. is worth 6d., and other denominations are
practically valueless. (2) Can’t recommend dealers.
. ...D.H.8.: Show it to Lyster Ormsby, 26 Hunter-
street, Sydney, or any other reputable art dealer.
. ...T.J.M.: Let us see their literature so that we
can form an opinion.... W. 0.: Write to the Secretary,
N.S.W. Rugby Football League, 165 Phillip-street,
Sydney. The Referee (Sydney) would contain com-
plete reports of the matches you require... .M.L.H.:
Agricultural Departments N.S.W. and Vic. have pub-
lished bulletins on tobacco culture, and H. J. Limmer,
Petth, representative in W.A. of the Australian
Tobacco Investigation Committee, could supply in-
formation... .W.T.: (1) The N.S.W. Agricultural
Department has tried Poa aquatica at a number of
centres on the North Coast, but up to the present
time it has not given satisfactory results. (2) Yates
and Co., 184 Sussex-street, Sydney, can supply roots
at 355, per sack... .R.E.W.: The Registrar of the
Land Valuation Court, Chancery-square, Sydney,
acts as taxing officer in connection with land trans-
actions... .W.S.: Try Kelsall and Kemp (Tas.), Ltd.,
Mayne-street, Invermav, Tas K.D.: The berries of
the mistletoe ( Loranthus ) forms a staple diet of the
mistletoe-bird, a small, arboreal, perching bird com-
paratively rarely seen. Probably this bird is the
chief seed-spreader... .R. 8.: (1) The goods referred
to are proprietary lines and their ingredients are
not disclosed. (2) N0....H.J.: Nesfield’s “Manual
of English Grammar and Composition” (ss. 2d.
posted), Lovell’s “Punctuation as a Means of Expres-
sion” (Is. 7d. posted), Frew’s “Hints on How to
Punctuate” (2s. 10d.), Dymock’s, Sydney... .C.W.S. :
The charge appears to be a legitimate one. The
original agreement to collect rent free of charge
terminated on the expiry of the lease, and the fact
that you allowed the agent to collect the agistment
fees seems to constitute a new .contract of employ-
ment for which he is entitled to make the usual
collection charge 1 of 5 per cent M.8.C.: (1) Dr.
J. A. Leach, Eyrecourt, Canterbury, Melbourne. (2)
Lilian Pyke, 12 Seymour-grove, Brgihton Beach, Vic.
(3) Isabel Maud Peacock is in private life
Mrs. G. E. Cluett. A letter addressed care of
Whitcombe and Tombs, Ltd., Auckland, M.L. would
find her... .R.M.D.: The Concise Oxford Dictionary,
10s., Angus and Robertson, Sydney... .A.E.S.: None
of the manufacturers of poultry foods whom we con-
sulted use pumpkin seeds as an ingredient, nor have
they ever considered using them.... Grazcos: For
Federal purposes the Co-op. Community Settlement
and Credit Act does not apply. Rate of tax is Is.
in the £ on the total income—distributed and
undistributed. For State purposes the company is
assessed on amounts distributed as dividends, plus
any amount of expenditure which is not in ordinary
circumstances allowed in arriving at the taxable
income of a company. Rate of tax 3s. in the £.
. ...A.M.G.: The only Government institution that
conducts a correspondence course in electrical engin-
eering is the Working Men’s College, Melbourne.
The I.C.S. and Stott’s Technical Correspondence
College also conduct such courses... .A.M.E.:
Depends on the terms of the hire-purchase agreement.
The usual form allows the vendor to seize the car
at any time if instalments are not paid, retaining
all money paid... .H.G.M.: Not known here. You
could substitute granadilla for any of the fruit
flavorings mentioned in Roberts’s “Cocktails and
How to Mix Them” (3s. 6d.), Angus and Robertson,
Sydney... .J.F.C.: (1) Powdered sal ammoniac costs
about Is. per lb. wholesale; powdered saltpetre, 7d
Haven’t been able to trace a Sydney supplier of
Scotch soda. It’s a crude sodium carbonate obtained
by burning certain sea plants and is also known as
barilla ash. (2) The mixture will remain effective
from two to three days according to weather. (3)
No H.A.C.: Home-made yeast would suit
G.J.: (1) The value of the Archibald Prize varies
from £515 to £550, according to the return re-
ceived by the trustees upon the investments....
T.W.W.: (1) Jerusalem artichokes can be obtained
from A. Yates and Co., Ltd., 184 Sussex-street,
Sydney, at 3d. per lb., or 4s. 3d. for 281 b. (2)
They should be planted in the early spring, in rows
20in. apart, with 9in. between each tuber in the
r0w....P.0.: (1) Port Kembla’s pop. is approxi-
mately 3700. (2) Fifty-six miles by rail. (3) T.
McCann... .J.M.C.: “Australian Sheep and Wool,”
by Hawkesworth (255. 9d. posted) ; “Sheep Farm and
Station Management,” by Pearse (21s. 6d.) ;
“Classing the Clip,” by Cowley (155.), Angus and
Robertson, Sydney.... Longwood: All the works re-
ferred to are likely to rise in value, though at present
no special value is attached to them (Many
others mailed.)


THERE ARE MANY WAYS of GETTING AT WHISKY !
For Some
"Time past
The most
USUAJ. METHOD
HAS BEEN TO
TAKE AM
W ,! " "
IMPIE WENT
K NOW M AS
THE CORKSCREW 1
InsE rt
THIS .
e
etm
- AFTER
SEV&RAE
fAUX PAS
into
THE CoRKp
-
w
WfutiLm
r
• AND THfN GO THROUGH A FOR_ . BEFORE
PESIRFD *s ACHIEVED — -
THE
USuAViY
WITH A
SickenihG-
Jout !
Or_ -
THE CORK
CAN B E
PUSHED
R.HjrHT
r
INTO THE |
BctteE -
AN EVIV-
METHOO •
A.* OTHER
way is to
KNOCK THE
NECK OFF
Th£ BottcE
THE LESS
SAID about
THIS th£
BETTER,
In any CASE. BY
THE TIME THE SPIRIT
\s available:,
Your mood iS
such that
You CANNOT
HOPE TO
EnJo> IT
PROPER UY
ow with
the WHITE HORSE
AIRTIGHT
SCREW CAP
You have no
Such trouble *
You just unscrew
it AND pour OUT..
the BEST
WHISKY in
the WORLD ,
t2> /NTjET r*.
EUREKA !
Copies, in two colors, of above Bateman cartoon may be obtained gratis on
application to Dalgety and Company, Ltd., Sydney, sole agents in N.S.W .
for WHITE HORSE Scotch Whisky.


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
QUALITY - VALUE
SERVICE.
There is a decided individuality
about every article presented by
Peapes—an unusual yet dignified
character which recommends it at
sight to men of discernment in
the fine points of correctness.
This, combined with the utmost
quality and value, constitutes the
wisdom of buying at Peapes’.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
PRIMARY PRODUCERS WOOL
AND PRODUCE SELLING CO. LTD.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £200,000.
The Hon. FRANK CHAFFEY, M.L.A.,Grazier,
Tamworth.
E. E. COLLINS, Esq., Grazier, Wagga.
W. GORDON McKINNON, Esq., Grazier, Junee.
A. A. MACKENZIE, Esq., Graziei-, Guyra.
C. W. L. MURCHISON, Esq., Grazier, Gunnedah.
LESLIE P. DUTTON, Esq., Grazier, Guyra.
HARROLD COWLISHAW, Esq., Merchant,
Sydney.
G. H. HARDING, Esq., Company Director, Sydney.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The object of the Company is to offer at auction, within 21 days after arrival in store, all
wools consigned to it for sale, whether they be large or small clips, late or early shorn, ’ free
or faulty, in order of arrival.
Don’t run the risk of having to wait longer for your wool to be catalogued, but have it
offered promptly by the PRIMARY PRODUCERS WOOL AND PRODUCE SELLING CO., LTD.
Consignment notes will be forwarded on application.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES ARE INVITED.
THE CUP on the ROAD
Consign it where its sale at full market
values is certain. Place it in the hands of
selling brokers who, season after season,
prove their ability as salesmen by consis-
tently securing highest possible results for
growers.
Send the wool to
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
The firm’s popularity is solely due to their
success in doing well for clients.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
FENCING SPECIFICATION.
“C.C.”: When letting a contract for fen-
cing it will save a lot of argument if the
conditions of the job are set forth clearly
and signed by the contractor A newchum
is sure to have trouble otherwise, and may
be easily bluffed into paying top price per
mile for a scamped job.
Here is a specification for a standard
sheep and cattle fence that has given satis-
faction :
Specification.
“Posts to be split from box or ironbark
sft. Bin. long, and not less than Tin. x 4in.
in thickness. Straining posts of the same
timber, to be 7ft. 4in. long, and not less
than a foot in diameter at the top. All
posts to be sound, reasonably straight, and
free from bark. Suitable trees may be used
for straining posts, provided they are on
the line of fence, are sawn off at the speci-
fied height, and the bark removed. Posts
to be sunk 20in. in the ground, and set
10ft. apart centre to centre. Strainers to
be sunk 3ft., and set 110yds. apart on level
ground, or less where required in gullies.
“All posts to be set perpendicularly,
firmly rammed from bottom of hole, and
earthed up two inches around the base to
allow for sinkage. First and last strainers
and all angle strainers to be firmly strutted
with saplings of the timber specified, 14ft.
long and not less than 4in. in diameter
when barked, let into a mortise below the
top wire. The base of strut to be' stayed
against a stout block sunk 18in. in the
ground.
“Fence to be in alignment. Posts to be
bored fair in centre with six holes at fol-
lowing gauge from ground-level: 6in., Gin.,
6in., Gin., Sin., 13in. The six wires to be
tightly strained, and fastened securely at
each strainer. Top wire to be bound twice
around strainers. All splices to be made
with figure-8 knot.
“Five hundred and twenty-eight posts to
the mile.”
Agreement.
“I hereby agree with to erect and
complete in a workmanlike manner within
from date miles of fence in ac-
cordance with the] above specification at
the rate of per mile.”
In some cases it is wise to insert a clause
providing for a penalty, if the time taken
by the contractor exceeds the specified time
through his own fault.
Where timber is scarce, posts 24ft. apart
with two light battens between make a ser-
viceable sheep fence. But where splitting
timber is plentiful I prefer the above speci-
fication for a strong fence suitable for sheep
or large stock.
When the posts are laid out on the line
is the time to take a walk along it, and
throw out any posts that are not up to
specification.
In stony ground, remember that some con-
tractors prefer to shorten a post with the
axe, rather than punch out the last six
inches of the hole.
THE SECRET OF FALLOWING.
“Glenfield”: The making of good fallow
is not just working the ground over and over
and keeping it free from weeds; a nice judg-
ment has to be used, and the secret is the
right working at the right time.
There is no doubt that Mallee land can
be worked too much, particularly in the
dry years. Some farmers get on to their
fallows after the fall of every few- points of
rain, and the dust can be seen clouding from
the implement; from my own experience I
believe it to be inadvisable to work the ground
on less than a fall of 25 points. Interesting
observation can be made at the present time
of fallows worked too dry and often during
the past droughty year. The growth of the
crop on such land is slow and spindly, and
germination has been uneven; the general
appearance of the paddock is anything but
healthy. In contrast the fallows that have
been lightly worked but given a thorough
shallow working at cropping-time have pro-
duced a crop of vigorous growth and healthy
appearance.
RECORD YIELDS OF CANTERBURY.
The cockies of Canterbury (M.L.) are
wearing a broad grin just now. An inno-
cent soul in Alberta Province, Canada, one
C. S. Noble, got 57 bushels to the acre off
his 1300-acre paddock of wheat, and has
claimed it as a world’s record. There are
hundreds of records of bigger yields in the
fertile plains of Canterbury, one of the best
authenticated being 114 bushels to the acre
threshed in the 1882-3 season on a Rangiora
farm. Another record proudly boasted of
by the yeomen of Canterbury is an oats
yield of 130 bushels to the acre threshed on
a farm near Timarn in the ’eighties, As to
wheat-growing on the grand scale, Duncan
Cameron, of Methven, reaped 9000 acres one
year, and John Grigg, of Longbeach, had
SOOO acres to cut the same year. In 1891,
still remembered by Canterbury cockies as
the “great potato year,’’ dozens of farms in
the Kaiapoi district (where the Ma State’s
Premier, Tom Bavin, was raised) dug 25
tons to the acre, and a farmer at Styx, near
Christchurch, is still held in reverence for
his onion crop of 40 tons to the acre. On
the subject of soil fertility Canterbury
reckons it can always say the last word.
YOUNG FARMERS’ CLUBS.
“Clerk”: This move for the establishment
of young farmers’ clubs in Victoria is a
good one. The idea is to demonstrate in
practical fashion to the boy and girl already
on the land that there are advantages in
remaining there instead of drifting into the
city. The Department of Agriculture is
behind the scheme, and the secretary of the
Chamber of Agriculture has arranged for
his bank to advance whatever funds are
necessary to start any club going which has
the support and guarantee of parents, guard-
ians or teachers of the interested boys and
girls.
At least 10 boys and girls between the
ages of 10 and 20 should comprise a club,
and the cash needed to provide each member
with pigs, calves or poultry will be £l5,
£2O or perhaps £5O. A promissory-note
( backed by some local authority) must be
given for the value, of the stock allotted to
each member. The boys and girls then feed
and tend the stock, keep proper records and
receive advice from an experienced super-
visor, who has agreed to pay periodical visits
to members to inspect the stock and note the
progress made.
After a year or so the club is to have a
judging meeting, at which prizes may be
awarded to those members whose stock has
made best progress, and whose records and
accounts are most accurately kept. As well
as general proficiency, such particulars as
the age of the member and the regularity of
his or her attendance at club meetings are
to be taken into account.
The bank interest on the amount advanced
is to be paid from the funds of the club as
they are augmented by the sale of the grown
stock or its progeny. In this way the loan
itself is ultimately repaid. When the stock
is sold, 10 per cent, of the original purchase
price is retained for the club funds, original
price and interest is deducted, and the bal-
ance goes into the pocket or purse of the
member.
There is no need to labor the point that
there is money as well as policy in the
idea. In 1925 a 17-year-old lad at Cohuna,
after attending a lecture, bought a pen of
Leghorns for himself. By the middle of 1927
he had bred more than 200 pullets, paid
for all his sheds and a new 500-egg incu-
bator and cleared £127 for the 12 months.
He had in hand orders to supply 900
chickens. Two boys and two girls at Wyuna
South saved their pocket-money and bought
two pure-bred heifer calves five years ago.
Their father had a pure-bred bull, and the
children now have five heifer descendants of
the original heifers and four bull calves. In
the five years those two heifers have given
18,142 gallons of milk and 58151 b. of butter-
fat, representing a revenue of £587 6s. 2d.
The Department of Agriculture promises
to send an expert to advise any district
anxious to form one of these clubs. Obvi-
ously, however, it must wait for the teacher,
the parent, the guardian or the breeder to
take the first step.
‘ DIRTY WHEAT.
“Valerin”: If those who are attempting to
Sovietise the wheat industry were to agitate
for cleaning machines at country and dust-
ing machines at terminal silos they would
be doing the farmers a real service. Our
wheat contains far too high a percentage of
“chaff” and other foreign matter, and in
the various operations at the silos these
become broken up, forming a white dust;
with cleaning machines they would be re-
moved and Cocky could cart the rubbish
back. The several handlings of the bulk
wheat rubs off the ‘‘germ,” creating a very
fine dust which envelops the grain; this
should be removed at the terminal silos in
the course of shipment. This dust robs the
grain of that translucent appearance which
makes our medium and hard white wheats so
eagerly sought for, rendering them dull and
opaque; and as the millers buy on actual
samples from shipments, it is obvious that
farmers must lose considerably. A leading
miller in England told me that faulty and
careless preparation—and N.S.W. was the
worst offender- —was costing Australia a
huge sum annually.
wheats for the mallee.
“Glenfield” : The Mallee cocky in his de-
sire to strike the right variety suitable
to the district has in numerous cases
seven or eight different wheats com-
posing his crop; this leads to considerable
extra work, both at cropping and harvest
time. One late, one midseason and one
early variety should be sufficient, and a
guide to the selection of these should be the
average yields over a period of years of
wheats grown on the Ideal experimental
plots.
A variety that is standing out well in the
Nor’-West Mallee is the crossbred Sepoy
(Currawa x Indian x Federation). This
wheat has always been on or near the top
in yield during the past four or five years.
It is a great stooler, somewhat like Yandilla
King in early growth ; it is late maturing,
and should be sown early ; it is short in the
straw with a brown clubby head. Possibly
this wheat will be to the Mallee what
Federation is to the Wimmera. A favorite
midseason wheat is Currawa, whose virtue
is its vigorous early growth—it more than
holds its own against weeds.
Another crossbred that is going to stand
by the Mallee is Ranee (Indian x Federa-
tion) ; it stools well, is a fast grower and
early maturing. It can hold its grain and
looks a good disease resister. This wheat
seems to be an ideal type for the Mallee
sandhills. -
LIME SHORTAGE.
“Burrum”: The law of minimum in re-
gard to plant growth does not operate only
to the extent of limiting the quantity of
crops to the supply of the least present of
the plants’ requirements. The quality of the
crop is also reduced. Miss Kincaid (Melb.
Uni. Research Laboratory) has shown that
introduced European grasses acclimatised in
Australia show a lower phosphoric-acid
content than the original stock, the result
of the relative poverty of most ofi our
soils in that element. The soil’s deficiency
extends to the animals grazing on it. Poor
lime districts produce animals of poor bone
and teeth. The early age at which most of
us have to get false teeth is a sign that
phosphate of lime is short. The supply and
replacement of phosphate of lime is a duty—•
profitable, fortunately. Super, does it only
partially; it requires from the soil 9 or 10lb.
of lime per cwt. of super, applied to con-
vert the monocalcic phosphate to a form
available to the plant. Dicalcic or basic
phosphate is a true fertiliser and needs no
lime. It should be applied on all poor lime
soils. Most of our coastal soils are poor in
lime.
DRENCHING SHEEP FOR WORMS.
“Fetterlock”: The instructions issued by
the N.S.W. Department of Agriculture are
that the sheep shall first be starved for 12
hours, and the general practice among sheep-
men has been to yard the sheep in the even-
ing and drench next day. Better results
have been obtained by local (Northern Table-
land) owners by drenching the sheep imme-
diately they are yarded and then leaving
them in the yard till _pext day. The argu-
ment is as follows. A sheep just come in
from the paddock has a full paunch, but an
empty rennet (or fourth stomach). Standing-
in the yard all night he chews his cud, and
in the morning has a comparatively empty
paunch but a full rennet. As it is in the
rennet that the worms are found, why not
drench when it is empty rather than wait
until it is full? But does the drench when
swallowed go direct to the rennet, or does
it have to pass through the other three
stomachs first, as the food does?
DON’T STRAIN WIRE-NETTING.
“157.310” : “Silentio” should not strain his
wire-netting, as this cracks the galvanising
and hastens the day when rust will ruin
the lot. The best way is to fasten at the
end of the fence, run out half your coil-
-50 yards—and pull tight with hands only,
and so on. At the end of the coil or strain,
hand tie to the fence —top only is sufficient.
Go back and hang the netting with hooks
at the right height. Then tie where needed.
If well pushed in round each post with the
knee it will be a finished job. When filling
in, put clods well tramped about every 6ft.,
thus getting a good set on the netting. Then
shovel or plough in the rest as you like.
TEST YOUR WORMS DRENCH.
“B-Gar”: “Dan Drewe’s” formula (B.
18/7/’2S) for drenching sheep troubled wit!
worms —2oz. arsenic and 61b. Epsom salts
to five gallons of water, applied in 2oz.
doses —is often effective, but I've known
cases where results were fatal not to the
worms but to the sheep. I saw nearly 4<JO
young hoggets poisoned with the mixture.
The best advice is to try your dose on a
small lot of wormy sheep and watch the
results.
THE WOOL SHEEP IN JAPAN.
"G.G.6” : For some years past Japan has
been making efforts in the direction of
supplying her own wool requirements, or at
least a portion of tliciii. The merino from
Australia was first tried, but was not a
success, climatic and feed conditions being
against it. Since then investigations into
breeds which might prove more successful
have been in progress, and these have been
extended to Maoriland. S. Yamamoto, who
has been representing the Japanese Govern-
ment in the matter in Maoriland, said the
other day that, though tlic Romney Marsh-
Merino cross so popular in the Dominion
fulfilled many of the Japanese requirements,
the Maoriland growers had concentrated more
on the carcase than the fleece, and it was
the latter that Japan required rather than
meat, the idea being to make the country
independent of outside supplies i,f the.se
were cut off or curtailed.
In the Corriedale the Japanese representa-
tive thought he had found a sheep of the
type required. On a previous visit to N.S.W.
over 400 sheep had been bought in N.S.W.,
and of these the Corriedales had proved the
outstanding success. Though originally pro-
duced in Maoriland,, the Cofiriedale has
reached a high standard of perfection in
N.S.W., particularly on the New England
Tableland —so much so indeed that sheep
from this State have been purchased for
the M.L. stud flocks. A Japanese demand
should mean increased profits for Australian
Coi-riedale breeders, and the objection raised
against the sale of fine-wool sheep to South
Africa, that serious competition is being
built up thereby, will scarcely stand in this
instance, since the sheep-carrying capacity
of Japan is placed at 1,000,000 acres at the
most—about the size of Momba (N.S.W.)
station until a few years ago.
THE VALUE OF LINSEED.
“Cow-wliit”: Linseed, both whole and the
meal, should be kept on every farm. When
horses get poor in condition, or mares are
doing double duty suckling foals and work-
ing, give linseed meal. A pint and a half
mixed in each feed of bran, oats and chaff
will soon produce a marked improvement.
We feed our stuff horses thus when pre-
paring them for the Royal and local shows.
In the winter, just before the stallions are
put to service, use a cup and a half of
linseed, boiled in four cups of water; mix
with the feed twice daily. For stud bulls
use one cup of linseed to three of water; for
rams half a cup of linseed to two cups of
water and mix well with the feed. Linseed
is also a wonderful cure for badly scoured
animals. A cow requires one cup of linseed
to two cups of water, well boiled. A calf
needs one quarter the dose. Give night and
morning till a cure is effected.
DOES DAIRY-FARMING PAY?
“P.M.” : The Vic. Government has a Com-
mission wandering about the country col-
lecting opinions on this subject. Many are
the tales it hears, but the present unsatis-
factory state of affairs can all be charged to
four things:—
(1) Too small holdings.
(2) Price of land too high.
(3) Obsolete machinery and methods.
(4) Inferior cows.
In regard to the first two, the Closer
Settlement Board is almost entirely to
blame. When soldier settlement started the
maximum price for a block was fixed at
£2500. Then the sharks got to work to un-
load their poor land on to the soldiers, and
the only way to get an exorbitant price was
to reduce the size of the blocks; so they
have got smaller and smaller, as the greed
of the landholders has got bigger and bigger,
and there are hundreds of dairymen to-day
with farms just large enough to starve on.
In regard to (3), we hear of the way
women and children have to slave in cow-
yards. Why should they be there at all?
The average milker milks seven to nine
cows per hour. A man and his wife and two
children will milk 30 cows in an hour; many
families will take longer. With a three-
cow milking plant, a man can milk 30 cows
per hour comfortably, and the engine will
separate while he is milking. Of course,
we are told the average farmer can’t afford
£2OO for an engine and milking-plant. No;
but if the holdings were larger, and there
was not such a duplication iof small mach-
inery and high overhead expenses they could
afford it. Four men milking 16 cows apiece


5.9
? =
S
Jifwl A'V
•i
PERFECT FIT
—3 widths per size!
An extra-comfortable Abbey
Boot, available in full and half
sizes—in three fittings, narrow,
medium and wide, per size. No
“breaking-in” needed it s easy
to wear from the first time on.
The squared toe is roomy and
smart. And the upper has a dis-
tinctive shapeliness arching
where it lies over the instep,
dropping a little at back of ankle
to eliminate risk of "catching ’
and to ensure a neat, close fit.
This Abbey Boot is flexible,
with a sole of the toughest
obtainable leather.
Order by post
State width as well as size re-
quired and ask, also, for a supply
of the correct Abbey Polish (6d.
per tin).
TAN OR
BLACK CALF
} 45/-
PATENT LEATHER, 55/-
40 -Page Colored Catalogue
Post Free on Request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
LB6. SYDNEY.
GRIP YOUR HORSE
e
TIIE PRINCE
POLEY
£l4/14/-
Coinplete.
SIGN HERE and I
Name
Address
Post this Ad.
with Wienehe’s
New Model
1928
PRINCE POLEY
The kneepads are set
higher up, but the
stirrup bars are free
for safety; in case of
an accident the
leathers will pull off.
Forty years’ saddle-
making has made the
Wieneke world-
famous.
will send you my big book of
saddles and my experiences.
JACK WIENEKE,
e/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 George St., Sydney.
432 Queen St., Brisbane.
GET EVERY SKIN BY USING
THE QUICKEST POISON.
SAYASTRYC
STRYCHNINE
with the addition of another chemical
to make it quicker in its action.
IT IS CHEMICAL LIGHTNING.
I in i
BabbitPoisoN'
'?DropsThem Dead on the Spot i
Cl i'IMIUPCIJIMmSAYtRS AIIPORT WWTTOaMACIIUMiItS^SrDHe^
Post free to any part of Australia,
4/- per ounce.
GUARANTEE.
If Sayastryc does not please you better
than the best Crystal Strychnine we
will refund the 4/- for the ounce tried.
MANUFACTURED BY
SAYERS’ ALLFORT PTY., LTD.,
55 MACQUARIE STREET, SYDNEY.
(tltlCU^
L TALCUM
w
The Ideal Powder
For Daily Use
This pure, delicately med-
icated, antiseptic powder
does much to overcome ex-
cessive perspiration. It sooth-
es and cools, is convenient
and economical and is an
ideal face, skin, baby and
dusting powder.
Soap Is.,Talcum ls.3d.,Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co.,Sydney, N.S.W.”
SUSS?"* Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade-mark.
Tlie best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
GOUROCK
HOPEWORK
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
GROCERS
•yHE “EARL” BACON CUTTERS, “made
in Australia,” are always at your service—made
in five models, prices £8 to £3B, cash or terms.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
HUMPHREY EARL, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY. Also at WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales
Throughout the Year
j WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
l HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash
Offices:
Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock, Wool, Crain and Produce.
4 Bligh Street, Sydney. JAMES KIDD, General Manager for Australia.
DO YOU WANT TO ENTER A PROFESSION?
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life. A profession in
which competition is limited and which offers wonderful opportunities if you have any ability
and are persevering. Our tuition gives' opportunities to students not to be found elsewhere.
Write for our booklet, telling of positions, salaries and fees, to-day. Start your new career NOW.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
VV&W26.
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRANt
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association ltd:,
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
will each have a separator costing over
£2O; a plough, harrows, etc., idle for most
of the year. If the farms were bigger and
the overhead expenses thereby reduced, the
money saved would buy good milking-
machines, The engine would also do many
odd jobs on which the small farmer puts in
many hours, and thereby reduce the “slavery
we hear so much about.
As to (4), the wretched class of oows
milked on the average farm, there are many
farmers who can afford to test and cull,
but won’t. One witness opposed compulsory
herd-testing because it “interfered with the
liberty of the subject.” But that is typical.
I know one family which was letting its
share-farms on two-fifths. That is to say,
when butter was Is. 3d. the share-farmer got
(id. When the Paterson scheme raised the
price to Is. 6d., the agreements as they
expired were altered to one-third share, so
the tenant and his kid-slaves still got 6d.
per lb. and the wealthy owners got the
bonus!
Why should the dairy farmer claim the
right to carry on with obsolete methods and
inferior cattle and expect the consumer to
pay for it? If any other industry tried the
game on, the public would not stand it. Take
Ynllourn, for example. At present it costs
about 2s. per ton to dig out the brown coal
by steam shovels and other mechanical
methods. Suppose the Commission said,
“We are going to double our output, but
instead of buying another up-to-date plafit.
we are going to dig the coal out with pick
and sliovel at a cost of £1 per ton, and
put the price iof electrical current up to the
public in proportion,” what would happen?
You would hear the squeal from the Murray
to the sea.
CLEAN CREAM CANS.
“Curley” : At one time I had the collect-
ing of farmers’ cream for a factory. Some
was good, some indifferent, some positively
bad. In the warm weather the bad would
be bubbling over the can like yeast. It was
inferior second-grade or worse, and would
be put aside till the buttermakcr had enough
to warrant him “dirtying the churn with it.”
I found that the very worst lot was caught
from the separator in a kerosene-tin. Over-
hauling the tin, I found the inner seams
nicely filled with remains of previous lots
of cream—a mass of putrefactive organisms.
The hot cream going in on that had a splen-
did “starter,” speedily infecting the whole.
The seams were soldered so that boiling
water could clean the can properly, and the
product of that farm was gilt-edged after-
wards.
Don’t depend on the factory making a good
clean job of your empty can —it hasn’t the
time. If you don’t believe me, just leave
the empty can in the sun with the lid on
for a couple of days! Always rinse the
can out with lukewarm water; then put in
a quantity of boiling water, in which some
washing-soda is dissolved. Put the lid on
and rock the tin to swish the water over
every part of it. That’s the first requisite
in getting good sweet cream.
Also never separate fresh cream (or mix
it) with cold. Cool it as quickly as possible
to check the growth of any fermentative
or other germs, and when cold add to the
bulk.
HOBBLING THE BULL.
“U. Wynn” : “Old Timer” is right (B.
11/7/’2B) re giving the bull a “free leg,” but
would do still better if he controlled his
bull in an acre-paddock instead of the bull
pen. The king of the herd requires room for
exercise. I have a Jersey bull that takes
daily exercise by tossing 20ft. logs round
his enclosure. With a secure bull-paddock I
not only regulate the milking season of the
herd and keep the bull free from contami-
nation by straying females, but have secured
up to 85 per cent, female calves in a season.
WORKING BULLOCKS.
“Mullarula”: Color is of more importance
in working bullocks than may be supposed.
As with horses, washy colors denote the poor
doer that won’t stand much hardship. Most
black bullocks, though they work well, feel
the heat more than reds or roans. White
bullocks, unless they have patches of red
or some other color round the eyes, are par-
ticularly subject to attack by aphis if worked
in scrubby country. White feet do not matter
if the hoof is black, but white hooves are
soft, and will wear down to the quick on
hard tracks, causing lameness. I don’t know
any reason why a blue bullock should always
be staunch, but I have never yet seen one
that would not come up into the bow at every
time of asking and put every ounce into the
job. And I have rarely seen a good-tempered
poley, red or black.
BLACK APHIS.
Black peach aphis is in unusual evidence
for this time of the year, the orcharding
experts of the N.S.W. Lands Department
report, and so is also black cherry aphis, the
eggs of which are to be observed on the
twigs about the leaf buds. It is possible,
therefore, that there may be a particularly
heavy infestation of both species during the
coming spring, and growers are urged to
adopt the necessary control measures.
An effective treatment for black aphis on
peach, nectarine, apricot and Japanese plum
trees during the dormant period is miscible-
oil spray, at the rate of one part of oil to 25
parts water. Oil spray at* this strength should
not be used later than when the buds com-
mence to swell. Where, as in some localities,
there is evidence that green aphis will be
bad, the strength of the spray should be in-
creased to 1 in 20.
For black cherry aphis, miscible-oil spray
at the last-mentioned strength (1 part oil
to 20 parts water), applied when the buds
are almost shooting, has given good control.
Tasmanian growers, it has been noted, are
using oil spray at the rate of 1 part in 15
for control of this pest. Experiments to
determine the most effective spray for control
of black cherry aphis and green peach
aphis are now being carried out by the
Department of Agriculture.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Rosso”: Springhead nails for a galvan-
ised-iron roof is a lazy man’s job, and a gale
will often undo it. For a secure roof gal-
vanised screws and lead washers are still
the best. With a very sharp-pointed steel
punch make the hole in the iron and then
bore the batten with a brace and No. 6 bit.
Hardwood battens will hold the screws as
long as the iron lasts.
“Breed”: It costs very little time and
money, and saves endless trouble, to put in
a small gate next to the stock gate on the
road. Walking travellers are apt to leave
the big gate open and allow stock to wander
through ; the small gate alongside expunges
this risk.
“Pullet”: If fine sand is available, use it
in the nests instead of straw. The hens
soon get used to it, and vermin will not
congregate as freely as in straw or dry-
grass nests.
“Nota Bene”: For ringworm on calves,
clip the surrounding hair and paint with
tincture of iodine. Repeat in two or three
days.
“Bosso”: In the days when 6id. was a
fair average price for wool, dusty fleeces
were leniently regarded by the buyers. Now-
adays dust has a decidedly depressing effect
on the value of wool. At present prices
it will pay well to abate the dust nuisance.
It may be modified by taking care, when
mustering, to drive the sheep carefully and
quietly over any dusty patches, without too
much assistance from dogs. When handling
sheep in the yards a hose connected with
the tap at the dip can be used to lay the dust
before starting work. It is worth it.
The kerosene-tin is the measure most fre-
quently used, as well as the common con-
veyor of poultry food, on the farm. A tinful
will weigh net, without the tin, approxi-
mately as under in pounds: Pollard, 18;
bran, 32; lucerne meal. 12; wheat (whole),
30; maize (whole), 28; maize (cracked), 25.
“Sylvester”: I agree with “Thong” (R.
25/7/’2B) about the prevalence of skin-
cancer among light-colored cattle. I have
had so much trouble with this disease, on
the brands and along the backs of light-
colored cattle, that I, handling Illawarras,
never buy or rear an animal unless the pre-
dominant color is red. No doubt the hot
sun here (Q.) would be harder on light-
colored cattle than in the southern States.
“F.A.G.”: If your dog gets distemper dab
some Stockholm tar on his nose. He will
immediately lick it off and swallow a small
quantity. Repeat the dab twice a day for
two or three days, and the dog will be cured
I have treated seven dogs this way, and only
once has it been unsuccessful.
“Who”: A good plan to stop a horse from
throwing up his head and pulling the other
horses about is to run a lead from the
bottom of the hames of the horses at each
side through a ring placed under the
“jerker’s” jaws. This prevents the head
from going high up, while giving freedom
of movement at either side. But it is still
better to put the troublesome horse on the
outside and use only a collar-ooupling for
him. Cross-reins will be needed then, and
these are a saving of the strain on a horse’s
mouth in any case.
“Blazes”: “N.M.L.” (B. 27/6/’2B) could
improve his method of pulling cattle and
borses out of bogs by substituting a Page
or Donald wire-straining gear for his horse,
using a well-driven-in stake, post or tree to
tie his No. 8 wire to. The advantage gained
is in being able to regulate the strain. I
have used this method successfully for the
last 20 years on the Lower Waikato (M.L.)
and mostly without any other assistance.
“Wrash” : Horses become excited over the
appearance amongst them of a young foal.
They jostle the mother, crowd about the
newcomer, kick at each other, and their ill-
timed attentions result in the death often of
the infant and occasionally of the mother.
When a mare is expected to drop her foal
she should be placed in a separate paddock
and kept there for a few weeks.
“Rastus”: Many small farmers who have
only one or two rams, especially the long-
woolled ones, have a difficulty in keeping them
in any paddock when not with the ewes.
This difficulty is easily solved by getting
two straps, fairly stout and 26in. long, and
coupling the rams together. On the straps
use a strong D and a chain about 20 inches
long about the size of a good strong tug-
chain with a swivel in the middle. If there
is an odd ram, tie to a good strong wether.
In all cases couple the rams of equal strength
as near as possible. They can thus be run
with the ewes all the year without trouble.
“C.A.”: Greasy heels can be cured quickly
with ordinary soft soap. Keep the litter dry.
and each evening wash the affected heels
with warm water and soft soap. Dry thor-
oughly with a soft rag, and then rub a little
soft soap on the heels. No binding of any
kind is required. Do this every day for
a week, and don’t let the prad get his feet
wet.
“Bad Australian”: There is one point
that should never be forgotten when riding
a hard-mouthed horse. The hands must be
kept -well down; otherwise up goes the
animal’s head, the rider loses control and
the horse, “running blind,” is liable to come
down or turn right over like a shot rabbit.
“B-Gar”: A Western Queensland grazier
ploughed and harrowed a patch of ground
adjacent to a bore drain. On rain threaten-
ing he planted lucerne, and, the rain falling,
he got a strike. Dry weather following, he
let the lucerne get a start, and then irri-
gated with bore water. The flooding killed
the young plants. Has anyone had better
luck with this water?
“8.N.”: Re holding on to a “monkey”
strap -when “sitting a buck.” In American
riding competitions, “touching leather” dis-
qualifies.
“The Welkin”: “Hatter,” on “mending
the land,” deals largely with clover. He
says it is less suited to the wheat-belt than
to the cooler parts. That is so; nevertheless,
it should be -worked into the rotation on the
wheat-belt, not necessarily regularly, but
when the land is due for repair. It should
be regarded more as a tonic than a crop.
“Ruetama”: Double-yolked hen-eggs are
common, but it is not often that a “treble”
is found. One was laid recently at New
Farm (Brisbane).


PROHIBITIO
WHAT IS ITS RECORD?
It has been tried in eight countries and repealed in six of
them.
In the other two, the law is regarded as a grim joke. It
is ignored, laughed at and flouted by all classes of the
community.
Its main supporters are those who make their living by it
and the bootleggers who are making fortunes because of
it.
It has caused death, blindness, warfare, espionage and an
increase of drunkenness amongst young people.
It has broken every promise made for it and has proved
unenforceable.
WHAT W
It would destroy the open, controlled sale ol
good liquor under strict supervision, and promote
trafficking in poisonous concoctions by unscrupu-
lous bootleggers.
It would render private homes liable to search at
any hour of the day or night.
New South Wales Electors!
Of Prohibition. BE
Pat tke.
Voting is compuM
The Liquor Trades Defence Union of N.S.W


4
ANALYSED
WHAT WOULD IT COST?
Prohibition in New South Wales wou Id cost over
£8,000,000 a year.
Loss of Federal revenue derived from Liquor in
N.S.W. . £4,592,812
Loss of Direct State Licence Fees . . . 500,000
Cost of attempted enforcement not less than 2,000,000
Annual Interest on Cost of Compensation 1.000,000
£8 092 812
(Compensation is computed by the Prohibi- 9 9 ,
tionists at £20,000,000; by the “Sydney
Morning Herald” at £27,000,000)
Plus the livelihood of 30,000 workers, with 90.000
dependents.
ID IT DO?
It would make it a crime for any man or woman
to keep a little brandy on hand in case of sick-
ness or accident.
It would create new and insidious temptations for
the rising generation.
It would retard the cause of temperance.
’ARE!
mt AquatUL
Penalty it
Mm
m


Quality Cteated tl& demand
Quality ifuwniainA tAe Sale
Army Club
lO for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper.
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hj’gier.ic Cigarette Packing.
mi
a
T%
CORK TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
Shouldn’t it now be called the Trans-
pacific fight?
There seem to be some pretty tough blades
amongst the razor gangs.
* *
An American poet has left all his estate
to a lunatic asylum. Conscience money?
SOMETHING WRONG WITH THE SPRING.
THE BORE: “I could go on telling you stories like that
by the dozen — I’m wound up to-night all right,
ain’t I?”
THE BORED: “You are. And yet you don’t seem to go.”
It would be much better if many who in-
tend getting married and settling down re-
mained single and settled up.
* *
“The duck season,” reports a newspaper,
“promises to be the best for many years.”
This has greatly heartened our Test-maitch
bowlers.
* ¥
The cool reception given to our recent loan
flotations in London suggests that our repre-
sentatives are having some difficulty in keep-
ing our tale up.
* *
A broadcasting station recently held a
telepathy test. If the management read
our thoughts, there will soon be a lot of
jazz gramophone records on the second-hand
market.
* *
A newspaper reports that a Federal mem-
ber, whilst walking bareheaded at Canberra
recently, was viciously attacked about the
head by a magpie. A magpie-lover writes
protesting that the bird was probably not a
magpie at all, but more likely a woodpecker.
* *
SPRING SONG.
Hail! to the storing and its gladsome days,
To its bursting pods and flowered ways.
Hail! to the beauty that knows no peer,
And hail! because rum gives way to beer!
N.s.w. D. McM.
# *
• The less women knead the dough the more
they think they need it.
* *
More than one motorist has never known
how good he was until he killed somebody
and heard his lawyer telling the jury about
him.
THIS WEEK’S FAIRY STORY.
Once upon a time there was a theatrical
wedding that was kept secret.
* *
These days the fatted calf is not killed
for the prodigal son’s return home —instead,
it lures him away.
* *
When a fellow is in debt to the tune of
pounds there isn’t much music in it.
¥ *
The woman who wears the smartest boots
in town is often slipshod at home.
* *
“The Prince of Wales,” says a cable, “has
selected some prize roosters for his Canadian
ranch.” An easier task,.we should think,
than selecting a pullet for the English ranch.
* *
Wife: “Well, do you think this dress suits
me?”
Hubby (absently) : “Down to the ground,
my dear.” ‘
¥
A drunk at the Sydney Central Court ex-
plained that he had exceeded the limit be-
cause he was afraid of pro-
hibition. Let us drink and
be merry, for to-morrow we
go dry?
* *
The Federal Capital Com-
mission, replying to an in-
quiry from America as to
the possibilities of big game
hunting at Canberra, said
there was nothing suitable
for the purpose in the place.
Opposition members regard
this as another unfair
attempt to shield the Gov-
ernment.
* *
A Victorian politician
states that in his electorate
the police have to carry their
overcoats for fear of having
them stolen. We learn, how-
ever, that it is only in the
very worst parts that pad-
locks have to be put on the
police themselves.
Pigs are now permitted to
enter Victoria from N. S.
Wales. But it is suggested
that they should not occupy
the whole road when motor-
ing.
* *
“A clergyman has to
qualify for his calling; so
has a pugilist.”— Evening
News (Sydney). Has to
learn all about the mystic
rights, of course.
* *
Many a wife’s job seems
to be to provide feud for the
home.
“An honest man is the noblest work of
God.” And sometimes it looks in Sydney as
though an honest alderman was His greatest
miracle.
* *
The fact that X-ray is now being used to
see through a painting and tell the age has
caused consternation in the ranks of our
typists.
* *
At a station in Victoria recently 30 sheep
gave birth to twins. That ought to put
Marie Stopes on her mettle.
* *
Mr. Bruce has declared that wives could
prevent all strikes if they liked. And if they
would only listen to reason through the key-
hole they could abolish a lot of lockouts, too.
* *
A young wife should not attempt to choke
her husband off his old pals too abruptly.
They are meet and drink to him.
¥ *
Another sanctuary for hunted animals is
suggested. We hope this means pedestrians.
* *
The world seems to be composed of two
classes of fools—those who think others
fools and those whom others think fools.
* *
A scientist claims that wireless waves pro-
mote the growth of hair. He says nothing,
however, about the programmes.
* *
Our universities would be conferring a
blessing upon Australia if they could manage
to turn out a few good Roads Scholars.
* *
There may be only one head in a family,
but it’s hard to believe it when the millinery
bill comes in.
First Cat: ‘‘They say her husband is a
real good sport.”
Second ditto: “He must be to stand the
number of hat-tricks she performs on him.”
* *
Old Mother Hubbard
Went to the cupboard
To get out her fancy-dress;
She said, with a whoopee!
‘‘l’ll go as a kew’pie,”
But finished as Good Queen Bess.
* *
Seventeen shopkeepers have been convicted
in Sydney of selling goods on Sundays and
in prohibited hours. It is
confidently anticipated that
after the return of the three
detectives who are to be sent
abroad to study crime detec-
tion, a much larger number
of these criminals will be
arrested.
* *
Thirteen debtor nations
paid a total of 90,757,605
dollars 1 cent to U.S.A. on
.Tune 15. The one cent, it
is understood, was spent on
a postage-stamp to tell Uncle
Sam in 1917 that there was
a war on.
* *
An effort is being made to
abolish the handshake habit
of salutation among Italians,
who are urged to greet their
friends by raising their right
hand. This practice has been
observed in Australia for
many years.
* H-
The film industry in Aus-
tralia gives work to 20,000
people. In America it gives
work to nearly that many
Divorce Courts.
THE LAST STRAW.
“Laura!” he cried excitedly. “Laura !
Come here!”
“Yes, Wallace,” said Laura in a calm
voice, as she entered the room ; “what is
it?”
In a voice that trembled nervously the
jokemaker read to her:—
First union secretary: “Do you believe in the
principle of one man one job?”
Second union secretary: “Not if you can put two
men on one job.”
He stared at her face.
“No, dear,” she said gently; “that isn’t
funny.”
An hour later she entered the room again.
He read:—
The Youth: “Do you do much walking?”
The Flapper: “No, I don’t go driving with boys
unless I know them well.”
“I think I’ve heard that one before,” she
said doubtfully. “Anyway, I don’t think it’s
funny.”
“And,” he asked in a toneless voice, “have
you heard about the plumber who started
GUESSED IT IN ONE.
ANGRY WIFE: “Will you tell me what that red hair
means on your coa t?”
CORNERED HUBBY: “Trouble, my dear.”
out on his honeymoon and forgot to take
his wife?”
She opened her eyes widely.
“No dear,” she said. “Tell me—what
happened?”....
Nevertheless, the jury called it murder.
F. A. L.
America is being quoted as a shining ex-
ample in favor of prohibition. We agree—a
moonshining example.
* *
A country butcher recently found a
wedding ring inside a cow. It is supposed
that the lady had been leading a double life.
A BIT TO GO ON WITH.
MR. S OFTLEGH: “I’be godd a derrible cold id by head."
MISS BITTERLIP: "Well, don't be discouraged; that’s
SOMETHING, you know!"
Many a wife’s job seems to be to provide
feud for the home.
V *
When a Sydney man marries and settles
down on the North Shore line, he soon has
to mind his peas and cucumbers.
* *
More men lose interest in their bonds of
matrimony than in any other investment.
* *
The nondrinker escapes many taxes; the
drinker pays excise according to his capacity.
* *
Life is mostly rough and tumble,
Two things stand like stone:
Monday morning's grunt and grumble,
And the boss’s moan.
* *
Mr. Pump: “Haven’t seen much of your
wife lately, Grump.”
Mr. Grump: “Um —then you haven’t seen
her new frock.”
* *
We are informed that a new sport has
grown up among Scotsmen at Canberra —
looking for the nest of the
crow which has been stealing
the local golf balls.
* *
A NEW OPERA.
The new opera “Bosker’
had a great reception last
night at the Spajestic
Theatre. When the audi-
ence realised that the curtain
had definitely fallen for the
last time there were loud
cheers, but when the manager
came to the footlights and
announced that the principals
had all left for home the
applause was overwhelming.
The hit of the evening was
the soprano Throti Giva-
mello ; and although it is not
yet known who hit her, the
effect upon her singing was
most marked, adding a
quality we are quite unable
to define (in print). At the
close of her duet in the
second act with the tenor
(Signor Lastgaspo) a lead-
ing critic in the gallery was
hoard to say, “What the
hell’s that, ‘anyway?” The
manager promptly offered
him a complimentary ticket
for the following perform-
ance, which, however, he
violently declined.
A feature of the presenta-
tion was Recommendatore
Wava Batton’s management
of the orchestra, which was
perhaps most noticeable in the strangling
scene, which ensued when an extra loud
burst from the trombone-player woke him up.
We have been requested to announce that
it was the Royal Garrison Field Artillery
which provided the armed escort that saw
the principals safely to their homes.
NUDRESS.
In her latest best she came to town,
And he. with hope and half a crown,
Asked, her to tea, but with a frown
She said he barely knew her.
He looked her up, he looked her down,
This pert and too-presuming clown,
Tic looked at girl and looked at gown,
And voiced barely he knew her!
QUEENSLAND.
MACESS.


ever
jY(qxq than
the qreatestvAwQ
in the low-priced
field , -
w
Chrysler "52” Tourer
Chrysler "52” Two-Door Saloon
Chrysler "52” Four-Door Saloon
Chrysler is indubitably
today the world’s low -
est priced producer of
quality cars, as he is also,
of course, the largest.
ONLY in Chrysler “52” at sensational low prices can
you buy these qualities—
The inevitably superior results of Chrysler engineering
—characteristic Chrysler speed and dash, actually usable
with comfort because of unrivalled smoothness of oper-
ation and riding.
Ease of handling unlike anything ever before experienced
in cars selling at much higher prices.
Smartness and beauty of line and colour that have always
set the pace for the remainder of the industry.
The true comfort of full-sized bodies of exceptional fine-
ness, equipped with saddle spring seat cushions.
Superior dependability and longer life resulting from a
precision of manufacture totally unknown in the building
of other low-priced cars.
There you have the smart New Chrysler “52” At its
sensational low prices and with quality unchanged in
any detail, public preference acclaims it today as more
than ever the greatest value in the low-priced field.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
V.S.W.: Larke Neave 6 Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne .
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide .
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington,,
CHRYSLER *52


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Rvan Esq. •
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.JI.G. " ’
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
2^nj^J>ffg|]g^hg - Ddlpst_facilitieg_for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
"’v> V —' X: ’X
X ~- jf ' • N -
-?”N
r%
m
J\XJ
n
“7/s Quality Never Changes. 9
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Poverty
Point
Cauboy”: Bill Ayr’s must be the oldest
surviving example of the patriarchal theatri-
cal organisation. Bill, who has a pleasant
singing voice and is a very fair comedian,
made his first acquaintance with a tent-show
in the bush 29 years ago. The movies have
come and spread their treacle to the far-
thest out-back hamlet, and the listening-in
habit has fastened on the land without shak-
ing him one whit. Until Ben Fuller found
him and transported him to a Melbourne
theatre lie had not played in anything but a
tent for eight years, and for the' same period
his family—one daughter and two sons—
have been the nucleus of his co. Bush-play-
ing breeds resource. At the opening matinee
in Melbourne Bill accidentally knocked over
a gum-tree. “Streuth!” said his mate,
straightening up the painted eucalyptus,
white ants is bad in this city !”
“Jacques”: Does anyone know where and
when the first movie was made in Australia?
My own recollection is that either Harry
Beaumont or Chas. Woods was the first to
produce an all-Australian picture. That was
about 17 years ago, and lectures on the film
were given when it was shown at various
suburban theatres. Also, someone might tell
me when the first movie was screened in Aus-
tralia. My first view of one was at Ted
Baker’s open-air show at Moorefield (Syd-
ney) 26 years ago.
Keith Kennedy (Los Angeles) : The writ-
ing is on the wall; the silent drama is
to be silent no longer. The big men of the
movies in • Hollywood have at last become
convinced that the talking picture is here
for keeps, so most of the leading studios
will go into sound this year. There will
be wailing and lamentation amongst many
of the fair but dumb actorines heretofore
used, for a figure can be obtained by reduc-
ing (or producing, as the case may be), a
face can be. lifted, hair can be manicured,
but a beautiful voice has to be cultivated,
and takes years to acquire. Strange to say,
stage-trained voices are not satisfactory, as
there is too much resonance. The soft
type of voice that reproduces well over the
radio is more suitable. The great trouble
with the production of talking pictures is
that no more can the director bellow his
orders to the perspiring actors. If he did.
such exhortations as “Hold her closer!”
“Now look as if you like being kissed!”
“Tighter!” and other pearls of wisdom
would be reproduced in the dialogue.
“Hamfat”: The well-remembered William
Heughan is now doing Maoriland, cannily
giving six nights to Dunedin, whilst Auck-
land. Wellington and Christchurch are get-
ting only four recitals each. He opens his
Australian tour in Sydney on September 18,
and then goes to Brisbane before calling upon
Melbourne and Adelaide. . The bass-baritone
was in Italy completing his studies for grand
opera when the war. came, and he got back
so quickly to. enlist in a Highland regiment
that he was in the earliest of the scrapping.
“Ilamfat” : Will Whitburn confided to me
that he had never before in his life received
a salary approaching the one he secured when
he came back as one of the “Old Stars of
Vaudeville” for the Fullers a couple of years
ago; but that merely shows how salaries
have changed, for Will was one of the most
popular comedians of his days. Seventeen
years ago he forsook a game which even
with the best of them was precarious, and,
interested all his life in trotters, became a
horse-trainer and breeder. He was a regular
identity at the Melbourne Show, where his
trotters won prizes; but this year's Show will
have to do without him. Pneumonia took
him the other day at the age of 65.
“Cauboy”: There have been one or two
appearances of female Hamlets in this coun-
try, but if my memory serves me Izobel
Duncan, a Melbourne teacher of the drama,
will be the first Australian woman to enact
the melancholy Scandinavian. She is lead-
ing in an amateur production of the drama
at the Playhouse on August 20.
“Shep”: Strauss, at 64, has not yet fin-
ished composing, and future companies will
be able to add his opera “The Egyptian
Helen” to their collection. To celebrate his
birthday, the Vienna Operatic Co. gave a
gala performance of the new work, and
critics acclaimed it as a future public
favorite. Jeritza took the leading role.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: In Clara Butt's remi-
niscences Melba is alleged to have said that
the right thing to give Australian audiences
was muck. Melba has made a vigorous
denial, and the cables have sizzled with de-
mands upon Clara to do some denying also,
to which she has responded like a Briton.
As audiences are not prone to pay to be
despised, it is a serious matter from the'
managerial standpoint, but the incident
merely causes others to smile. Something
similar happened to Seymour Hicks on his
visit to Sydney five years ago. Seymour
made some remarks about the decadence of
the London stage, and a sensation paper,
“TURANDOT,” AT SYDNEY MAJESTY’S.
Princess Turandot (Arangi Lombardi) and Court express musical astonishment that
Prince Ignoto (Francesco Merli ) is able to answer three riddles.
perverting his remarks, made him lay the
blame on Jewish managers. Only for a
Jewish paper putting the correct position,
Tlicks would have had a worse season than
lie did, and there was a considerable absence
of boiled shirts and diamonds in his front
rows as it was. Henry Lee killed his
chances at the Sydney Palace by denouncing
the audience and all Australia because
some, who had come expecting melodrama
and got poetic drama, became restive. lie
caught the next boat back to America. Rig-
nold, too, had trouble with a “house” one
night, but, getting a hearing, he said that
he could see the bulk of those present were
intelligent .people; for their benefit he was
prepared to give back their money to those
ignorant hoodlums who, lacking the intelli-
gence to understand the play, interfeted with
the enjoyment of others. There was no fur-
ther disturbance —and there were no calls
at the box-office, either.
“Kelaepa”: Jean Forbes-Robertson, in
wearing black for her Ophelia (B. 20/6/’2B),
is following in her mother’s footsteps, for
Gertrude Elliott always played it in black
to Forbes-Robertson’s Hamlet. As far as I
know, no others have done so. Considering
the part of Ophelia by itself, obviously black
is the most suitable shade, but Hamlet
rightly refuses to play beside it because it
would give no contrast to his own sombre
hues. Certainly I cannot picture Hamlet in
pink.
“Goldilocks”: Don Finlay and his col-
laborators are getting busy with their “little
theatre” at North Sydney; they hope to
open the Turret at the end of this month.
Professor Mungo MacCallum, who takes an
interest in all such movements, is to be
president of the Players’ Club attached to
the show-house.
“Spokcshave” : In the rush to celebrate the
centenaries of Schubert and Ibsen, Tolstoi
seems to have been forgotten. The Russian
novelist was born on August 28, 1828. The
old boy with the prophetic whiskers had
several shots at drama, chief of which were
“The Power of Darkness” and “The Fruits
of Enlightenment,” a languid attempt to
revive which was made in London this year.
One reason why the world is finding it easy
to forget Tolstoi is that, like H. G. Wells,
he was less an artist than a moral re-
former. He wrote his own epitaph in “What
Is Art?” In that fanfaronade of nonsense
he brought the standards of the modern Bab-
bitt to bear on culture. He calculated that
in the Europe of his time there were 360,000
individuals engaged in producing works of
art whose complete condemnation lay in the
fact that the Russian moujik could not
understand them. He himself found Beet-
hoven incomprehensible, Ibsen idiotic and
Wagner shocking. About the most humorous
thing the Czarist censorship ever did was to
re-write his book from the aristocratic stand-
point and tell the indignant wowser that he
could publish it in that form or not at all.
For once in a way posterity has justified
the censors.
“Goldilocks”: The motor accident that
caused Leon Gordon to go on with a cut
face and bandaged arm in “Scandal” and
sent Ben Lewin to hospital, gave John Fern-
side his seventh adventure in taking up
another man’s part—he stepped into Lewin’s
shoes. He played. Leon Gordon’s part in
“The Trial of Mary Dugan” for five nights,
relieved Cyril Mackay in “De i,uxe Annie,”
Frank Harvey twice (in “French Leave”
and “The Claw”), Gus Bluett in “Kempy,”
and another mummer in “Bought and Paid
For.”
“Craiser”: A few minutes after the last
theatregoers had filed out of the Melbourne
Comedy after a performance of “The High
Road” the other night, conductor Benno
Sclierek was found dead in the theatre by
an employee. Benno was certainly the most
picturesque looking and probably the best
liked figure in Melbourne musical circles.
He had a thin time professionally during
the war, on account of his name, but before
and after that interlude he accompanied on
the piano more concert performers than any
other local musician, and many leading
players marned their five-finger exercises
from him. When the Comedy was finished
the Firm asked the old fellow with the
leonine mane if he would conduct, and he
declared his 74 years to be no obstacle.
“L. de R.”: The habit of inviting theatri-
cal identities to open art shows is a curiously
persistent absurdity in Melbourne. An exhi-
bition by G. C. Benson, which was quite
capable of standing on its own merits, was
unveiled by Irene Vanbrugh the other day,
and hundreds of people who normally take
no interest in depictive art came to ogle the
star. In another part of the town on the
same day another show was opened merely
by _an announcement in the papers. The
artist in the second case had been bitten and
was shy. A couple of years ago he thought
some good might be done by inviting the
members of two visiting American troupes,
and he even went as far as providing tea,
cakes and cigarettes for his guests. They
devoured his tea and cakes and smoked his
cigarettes, looked at their reflections in the
picture-glass, remarked “My, ain’t it grand !”
and departed. As far as they were con-
cerned it was only another free advertise-
ment.
“Hamfat”: Richard Walton Tully, who
has been picture-producing for the last 10
years, signed his name on the title-page of
“The Bird of Paradise” in 1911, and the
play started a career of long runs all over
America. In 1919 it reached London, where
at the Lyric, it ran for 312 performances
and in 1922 had a several-weeks’ revival
at the Garrick. Now Mrs. Grace Fendler,
after battling for her rights for 17 years,
has established the fact that the play was
pirated from her book “In Hawaii,” and a
New York Court has given her judgment
for £150,000 against Tully and a big entre-
preneur. Collecting the money may be a
different matter; but it looks as if the
old lady, who is now 80 and has had to rely
upon her friends for support, will be ahh-
to spend the rest of her old age in comfort.
The verdict is given under some new U.S.
legislation as to copyright, which has a
retrospective effect, and it must be causihg
shivers to run down some managerial spines.
“B. Flat”: Ten years ago the skilful
pianist was the plute of the musical pro-
fession ; to-day, when business is generally
booming for musicians, it is the pianist who
is suffering all the unemployment that is
going. The cause is a curious change m
social habits. At one time the piano was
regarded as a fully sufficient musical ingre-
dient of 75 per cent, of the concerts and
socials' with which Suburbia amused itself,
and at the amusement-halls the ivory-
thumper was in demand also. To-day a
band is required, preferably a jazz band;
and the pianist who has not learnt to handle
one of the blareful instruments that have
become popular has to go hungry. My
friend Sam Octave showed me a letter he
had received from the secretary of a “re-
union” which has been an annual event with
him for 11 years. It mentioned that, as
he had served so long, the committee would
like to re-engage him for the next occa-
sion. “But we are not going to have a
piano,” it said. “Do you play the saxo-
phone?”
“Goldilocks”: Keith Wood, of Newcastle,
who died the other day, made his first
appearances on the comic-opera stage in
Australia, but was advised to go !o Europe
for better things. Madame Novello Davis,
under whom he studied, was prophesying big
things when eye trouble drove him from
England to America. The affection recurred
there; and he returned to Australia, after
doing some picture work with the Talmadges
in U.S. He has lived in Newcastle, his
birthplace, ever since, making only a few
professional appearances, but giving a con-
siderable help to all musical affairs.
“Hamfat” : “The Message from Mars” used
to save Hawtrey when he struck a bad patch,
and Alfred Dampier found a lifebuoy in
“Robbery Under Anns,” which the Russell -
Anderson combination is reviving at the
Sydney G.O.H. Dampier claimed the rights,
but other companies borrowed them without
asking. One rushed the play on at Sydney
Criterion with scenery made mostly from sap-
lings cut in the bush near Sydney by the
actors themselves. The venture did not have
the Dampier luck; it was only dried foliage
the creditors seized at the end of the week.
“Craiser”: What a contrast Australian
Lance Fairfax, the very able seaman of “Hit
the Deck,” makes to the long succession of
duds the Firm has imported of recent years.
The English and American male leads, like
the female, seem all to have been tipped out
of the same mould. Goo-goo eyes, a sloppy
smile and an innocuous voice inside a suit
of immaculate design are the hallmark of the
type. Fairfax has intelligence and humor,
and plays with his tongue in his cheek,
which is the proper place to have it in a
modern musical comedy ; and when his voice
rolls out in unexpected richness the orchestra
blushes and hangs its tinny head. After
the war, in which he won the Military
Gross and was mentioned in Haig’s
despatches, he contemplated studying under
Sir Thomas Beecham, but it was the Aus-
tralian stage which taught him all he had to
know. Ho started at the Tivoli and gradu-
ated into the chorus of “Wildflower,” but
definitely came to light in the last oultbreak
of Gilbert and Sullivan. The Firm’s next
venture, “The Desert Song,” which opens
in Melbourne, will see him in the leading
position.
“Goldilocks” : Old friends are always meet-
ing in the theatrical world, quite unexpec-
tedly. Bertha Riccardo, returning to Sydney
with Moscovitch, found Percy Hutchison
arriving for a Palace season. When the
young lady was four years old she played
the boy Paul in Hutchison’s production of
“Passers By” in South~Africa. That wasn’t
her first appearance; Seymour Hicks put her
on the stage earlier in a play that required
a child. She went into musical comedy when
she grew older, and, coming to Australia a
year ago, was in “Tip Toes” and was Rose
Marie in the No. 2 co. which toured with
that piece. Her transference to drama is
merely another example of the shuffling of
performers which takes place in the J.C.W.
army so frequently.
“C. Oc-kney”: Dot Brunton is making a
fresh start in England—her first appearance
since her none-too-successful season with Guy
Bates Post. Returning to her old love, musi
cal comedy, the brilliant little Australian
has signed up with a new management, in
which the well-known baritone Harry Welch-
man is interested, and she will play the
leading female role in “The White Camellia.’
The piece is starting on a comprehensive
tour of Britain, and is booked for London at
Ghristmastide.
THE UNKNOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’m never mentioned in a par.,
My photograph you never see;
Yet, clever though my colleagues are,
I play more roles than any three.
For instance, when the heroine
Has fallen in a sudden swoon.
And fitful beams of moonlight shine,
I am the chap that works the moon.
I am the thunder and the rain,
I am the winds that sometimes blow,
I am the rumbling railway train,
I drop those (paper) flakes of snow.
I am the “sudden noise without”
That always makes the villain start;
When unseen armies raise a shout
It’s I who take the leading part.
With no unworthy envy filled
I watch the Moscovitches shine,
But why should they be nightly billed
While I’m denied a single line?
N.S.W.
ALEX. SCOTT.


"Won bu a
.
&>* > / »
- ,
'V..
• '-
:
>
Vj
• •->
|pr3&*l
..
ioapiaiJovf th& &^nahsft
JQuabij
<Jbcuru.
CAPTAIN
■JONATHAN
PARKIN.
“I have great pleasure in expressing my
appreciation of Rexona Shaving Soap, and would
add that, during the present and previous tours, I
have always used Rexona Shaving Soap, and in
fact would not he without it.
“When 1 sail for home I will be leaving many
good Australian friends behind, but I will take at
least one good ‘cobber’ with me—Rexona Shaving
Soap.”
“(Sgd.) JONATHAN PARKIN (Capt.)”
< ~ißerv!, /
that SattitfieA,
r ZJA&.~/Yew YY/sUanaulaAs SitcA,.
If you have a stubborn beard and a tender face, which so often go together, you want to use
a neutralised Shaving Soap that softens the beard and makes possible a good shave without any
irritation or discomfort.
There are more men shaving with Rexona Shaving Soap in Australia to-day than with any
other soap, and thousands have testified to the fact that for a smooth, refreshing shave there is nothing
better.
Being a neutralised high-class soap, it lathers well with either hot or cold, hard or soft water,
but where Rexona Shaving Soap scores above all others is that it is medicated with Rexona, “The
Rapid Healer,” the greatest skin specific of the age. Should you have the misfortune to shave too
close, or cut yourself, the beneficial healing properties of Rexona immediately tend to soothe the skin
and quickly restore it to a normal condition. Men! Indulge in “a better shave” every morning with
Rexona Shaving Soap, and starting the day well with a good deed to yourself, you will feel more
inclined to do good deeds to others.
Rexona Shaving Soap, the new triangular stick—the only Shaving Soap with the pure, out-
door fragrance of Rexona itself. Get a stick of Rexona Shaving Soap to-day—it is 1/6, and comes
to you in a pure aluminium decorated container, which Keeps it in perfect condition.
e
XONA
R£
UCT
pp°v
m
1/6
In Pure Aluminium Container,


v:
w,
Gleflecti CJamoVww'A
(Y&u
Hudson- Essex
gather materials
from all over the
world.
/ o
Lead in Value
Always Hudson 's First Frindp/e
Hudson’s leadership of mode is but another
expression of the value that has been the first
principle of Hudson manufacture since the
beginning.
The wealth of quality details you see, feel and
touch—every refinement that surrounds you—
is typical and expressive of the quality that
Hudson gives where character must guarantee
the unseen values.
Among the enthusiastic thousands who are
buying Hudson cars you will find the truly
discriminating—those to whom beauty is a
necessity, performance a critical demand, and
value a clear understanding.
A demonstration awaits you at the nearest
Hudson-Essex dealer. Ride —drive —try it your*
self —then make your own decision.
HUDSON.
w
127 in. Models.
Standard Sedan £550
Landau Sedan 590
7-pass. Sedan 685
118 in. Models.
Tourer, Colonial Body 445
Coach, American Body . . ... 500
Coupe, ~ ~ .... 510
Sedan ~ ~ .... 520
Five Balloon
Tyres
Standard
Equipment.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMP ANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETT & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUT F ROll YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
HUDSON Super-Six


qA
«<ed
A
-
Model
131.
Model 131. N e
style for sports or dancir
wear, no boning, very
fancy material. Made in
pink. Sizes 23-30 inches.
£ be
Model 1256.
Model 1256. —A wrap-
round corset in brochfi batiste.
Reinforced elastic on hips.
Light in weight. In pink.
Sizes 24-36 inches.
Model 855.
Model 855. Straight
back style modelled on the
latest lines, in splendid wear-
ing coutil. Fancy barmen
top with reinforcement over
busk. Four artificial silk
suspenders. In dove or white.
Sizes 24-32 inches. 0.5., 33-
40 inches.
Ask Your
Corsetiere to Show
You Twilfit Models
RETAILERS who realise that corsets are not a
relic of last century—that they are more
important now than ever before—that they
settle the fit and look of woman s clothes and
the daily comfort she enjoys—these retailers will
stock “ Twit fit.”
“Twilfit ” Corsets are Good—they have exclu-
sive features that make them conform to fashion
very comfortably, and their workmanship, material
and finish conform to the highest standard of
British production.
Distributors for Australia:
LYALL WILLIS & CO. LTD.,
London, England.
AGENTS:
Melbourne Baldwin & Slattery Pty., Ltd.
Adelaide . . Arthur Glover. Perth L. M. Cullen & Co.
CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID— 32 per cent. Na2o.
POWDERED-98 per cent. NaOH.
SULPHURIC ACID—-1.83 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
CARBON TETRA CHLORIDE.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
CONCENTRATED SOLDER-
ING AND TINNING FLUXES.
LIQUID CHLORINE
IQO per ceiit. pure Anhydrous
Irk 100, 150 and 20001 b. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE. VICTORIA,
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Chevroford”: Kew, Melbourne, has a
motor garage run entirely bv womlen. The
two proprietresses employ only girl mech-
anics.
❖ # & sjc
“Bert the . Carpenter”: Recently I com-
pleted a spiall sewing cabinet and asked some
timber experts to name the wood from which
the veneers used on it were cut. Most of
them opined it was burr walnut; not a
single one guessed that the beautifully-
grained and figured veneers were cut out of
a big solid mallee root!
* * * *
“Adelaide”: An Italian restaurant pro-
prietor in Adelaide is, on his own evidence
in the police court, about the easiest mark
on record. A stranger, he says, came in and
ordered a dinner on a given date, for a party ;
and then, instead of paying a deposit, wanted
proof that the banquet would be ready when
they came, and ob-
tained £1 deposit as
“guarantee”! When
the date arrived,
and the dinner, but
no diners, the inno-
cent one appealed
to the police.
THEY KNEW THE WORST.
OSWALD: “Cripes, dad—the Sydney Harbor Bridge is
going to cost seven million pounds!”
DAD: “Lucky people. I don’t know how much your
mother’s bridge is going to cost me.”
“W.T.W.”: The six-wheeler is already
standard equipment in certain arms of the
Commonwealth Military Forces. In Victoria
the medium artillery has used them suc-
cessfully, and now the field artillery is to
be partly mechanised-—mainly with six-
wheelers. The signal corps had them at the
camp of continuous training last February,
and the way those big ’buses towed cable-
waggons was little short of wonderful. They
were made by Morris, of England, and the
rear wheels could be fitted with “caterpillar
tracks” in less than five minutes.
* * * *
Uncle Sam must have spent a merry
month of June, for
13 debtor nations
paid 90,757,665 dol-
lars 1 cent into his
treasury on account
of war commit-
ments, and interest
thereon. Britain’s
whack, the largest,
was 67,199,999 dol-
lars 63 cents.
France was next
with 11,250,000 dol-
lars as a payment
on account of the
principal of cash
advances under the
Liberty Loan Acts;
the bill for war
materials supplied
by Uncle is addi-
tional to this. Italy
came next with a
five-million dollar
payment, while Bel-
gi u m, Czecho-Slo-
vak i a, Esthonia,
Finland, Hungary,
Latvia, Lithuania,
Poland, Roumania
and Jugo-Slavia
also weighed in for
varying amounts,
some of them for
actual war debts
and some for bor-
rowings incidental
to the war, inter-
est being included,
of course. From
the point of view of
the non-American,
the only humorous
patch in the category is that 1 cent in the
grand total.
* * * >5
“Adelaide” : The curious suspended-anima-
tion Northern Territory Land Co. in Adel-
aide has issued its forty-seventh annual bal-
ance-sheet. As usual of late years, the
report says only that “there has been no
opportunity of dealing with the co.’s land
during the year. The income is sufficient to
cover expenses.” The land still held is
over 73,000 acres, “purchased at 7s. 6d. per
acre,” and nominally worth that—only no
buyers are in sight.' Proceeds of some pre-
vious sales have been put into £3OOO-odd of
Government securities, and the annual £l7O
resulting more than keeps expenses paid.
Five of Adelaide’s shrewdest business men
are the directorate, and their modest fees
are £6 a year for the lot! £35 pays office
and sundries; and Government does its best
to discourage land-holding for a rise by slap-
ping on £9O for land-tax.
“C.Q.”: The Anti-Noise Society in Mel-
bourne has made some progress lately, and
incidentally assisted an Australian indus-
try. A South Melbourne firm has just com-
pleted to the order of the Tramways Board
a rail-grinding machine, the first of its
pattern to be constructed in this country. The
big Juggernaut was designed by S. J. Little,
a consulting engineer, and weighs 11 tons.
It drives slowly over the rails, and an
elaborate arrangement of carborundum
wheels grinds the corrugations out of the
track. How these corrugations come into
the rails is up to date a mystery, but they
help to put Cameron’s trams amongst the
worst noise-makers of the road.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: The most barefaced attempt
to date to break the bank is reported from
San Remo, the Italian watering-place which
Lloyd George selected for one of his peri-
patetic peace conferences in 1920. An en-
gineer was caught inserting a piece of mag-
netised steel in the roulette wheel at the
Casino after the place had closed for the
night. Investigation showed that some of
the balls had been equipped with metallic
centres, the croupier being in the joke, which
was expected to yield the conspirators
£lOO,OOO in a single night.
a* * * *
“Chevroford”: Tyre manufacturers supply
their Roods free to a great
variety of stunters, from
trans-Atlantie fliers to speed
motorists; but the queerest
request to date was for a
new tube and cover for a
barrow-wheel, tendered to
Dunlop’s in Melbourne. The
suppliants were a tall S’Afri-
can and liis short wife, who
have been trundling the
vehicle round the world on
what they call a walking
tour, though 23,000 of the
36,000 miles have unavoid-
ably been walked on ship-
board. The restless couple
set out from Jo’burg in 1922
with threepence apiece in
their pockets, and have
passed through 13 countries,
paying their way by selling
postcards and delivering lec-
tures. Their motive wasn’t
the usual wager, but, accord-
ing to the wife, the husband’s
incurable nomadism. In
Canada they put their vehicle
on skis. It is a good thing
they missed China, where
the wheelbarrow’ is a recog-
nised pub 1 i c conveyance.
They might have been com-
mandeered for military trans-
port.
“Spadger”: A Monaro (N.S.W.) man,
owning land too at Condobolin, had occasion
during a rough winter to send several truck-
loads of beasts to the warmer climate. On
the journey a long-horned Hereford gored
and trampled all the other cattle in the truck.
The drover having neither rope nor lethal
weapon was helpless, and the task that con-
fronted him on arrival at Condo, after kill-
ing the wounded, was the disposal of the
corpses at the least possible expense. While
he gazed at the ruins a station lounger
approached and offered to take over the car-
cases. The drover jumped at it and set off
A SUPER-SALESMAN.
THE BOOK-kEEPER: “What’s that new salesman like—any good?”
THE MANAGER: “Any good! I should say he was. Why, he’s
just brought in an order for twins from a flat in Darling-
hurst.”
with his live mob. Coming back a few weeks
later he struck the same man and asked him
how he got along. “Oh, not too bad —made
twenty pounds out of the hides.”
* * # *
“F.S.G.”: When the Speck’s .Commis-
sioner of Railways first mooted the
closing down of one of the minor lines owing
to the public’s growing preference for road
and motor travel, he was waited on by a
deputation of alarmed and protesting residents
of the' district. They submitted numerous
arguments and statistics to show 7 why the
line should continue, and for a time it
looked as if they had a pretty strong case.
Then an inspiration struck the officer. “I
should like to ask, gentlemen,” he said,
“how many of you patronised the railway
this morning in attending this meeting?”
The deputation was silent. With a single
exception, it turned out, they had all
travelled by road.


Ki:>t
Radio
ff.W
SS
e
MODEL 33.
Battery operated. Powerful, six-valve, FULL-
VISION Dial Receiver. Solid Mahogany Cabi-
net. Unusually effective where distance-get-
ting is essential or inside antenna is necessary.
Simple antenna adjustment device assures
remarkable selectivity.
W7HATEVER one may rightfully
W expect of radio is found in
Atwater Kent. Clarity of tone to
satisfy the most critical ear. Lightning-
swift selection of even distant stations.
Compactness which in itself answers
the old question: “Where shall we
put it?”
All experimentation has been
done at the factory. When an
Atwater Kent set reaches you
it is perfect. Nothing to adjust,
nothing to add. The turn of
one dial, always in full view,
m
W\
¥
;
r
brings to you immediately the best of
near and far programs.
If you are letting the marvel of radio
slip through your fingers because of a
poor receiver, or no receiver, we urge
you to inspect the Atwater Kent Radio
at your dealer’s. Or write to this
Melbourne address for description
and prices.
ATWATER KENT PRICES:
Six and Seven One-Dial Atwater Kent Re-
ceivers, £25/10/- to £37/10/-, without valves
or equipment.
Radio Speakers, £3/15/-, £4/10/- & £B/15/-
<ir> Q
4s-
1 . C %Joi<rj
<a
%
M, \
XXN
<?
>»fe\
**t&V
••••/<■%%
•. • • / \/%0
MODEL E RADIO SPEAKER.
New method of cone suspension, found in no other
speaker, makes certain the faithful reproduction of
the entire range of musical tones. In attractive
color combinations.
Inserted by Atwater Kent Manufacturing Company, Philadelphia,
Penn., U.S.A., on behalf of Australian Dealers.
Atwater Kent Wholesale Distributors jor Australia; —
A. G. HEALING LTD.
MELBOURNE - - - SYDNEY - - - ADELAIDE
Dealers Established Everywhere.


World's Pigeon Championship.
Melbourne Gun Club, July 6, 1928.
Ist. W. BAULDERSTONE (S.A.).
3rd. “CALROSSIE” (Vic.).
Both used
W. W. GREENER
GUNS.
There is no better
Shooting Gun made.
Procurable from all GUN DEALERS.
Catalogues on Application.
Wholesale Representatives;
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY, LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE, C.l.
w
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed (or the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Addiese:
“Usherotel, Sydney.’*
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
SPORTIN G
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
All going well in the meantime, Mollison,
now doing excellent work at Randwick, will
have at least one formidable opponent in the
A.J.C. Derby—Roscrea, half-brother to Bally-
mena and Limerick, and, like that great pair,
owned by EL A. Knight and trained by F. D.
Jones. Though not yet ready, Roscrea was
confidently backed in the Three-year-old
Handicap at Rosehill on Saturday (fives was
'the closing price), and he handsomely per-
formed the task assigned to him; in fact,
McCarten had not to shake him up over any
portion of the last furlong of seven, run in
lmin. 27sec. Like his half-brothers at the
same age, this black gelding (he is by Ros-
sendale) is nothing much to look at, but he
showed unmistakable quality, and should
prove himself a stayer, as they did.
None of Roscrea’s 16 opponents showed
anything suggestive of Derby form. Mag-
netic, the 6-to-4 favorite, had every chance,
but faded away like a non-stayer; .Canberra
Florin. (8 to 1) is an improving filly, but
was well beaten. The Dimmer, supposed to
be a Derby and Cup possibility, failed in-
gloriously in a division of the Maiden Handi-
cap, won by Eubul (12 to 1), a moderate
and in his eighth year at that. Yet some
of the bookmakers demanded a shade of odds,
and were not anxious to bet then.
Of the Epsom candidates Anambah, half-
brother (by Magpie) to Beauford, did best.
Though he drifted to tens for the Car-
lingford Mile, he w r as always at or near
the front, and easily held Sharp Son (8 to
1) at bay in the run home. He is an aged
horse, but has done very little racing owing
to a dicky pin. Next to Anambah’s stylish
performance Ilabashon’s second (at fours) to
Figure (3 to 1) in the Highweight Handi-
cap deserves to be remembered. This service-
able-looking chestnut evidently needed the
race.
Fondant (5 to 1), cleverly ridden by the
younger Pike —also on Figure and Can-
berra Florin —made a one-horse race of the
Rosehill Handicap. The Ring installed
Prime Don a warm favorite, but the excit-
able chestnut grew tired of chasing Fon-
dant, and Gipsy King (3 to 1) passed him
in the straight, as also did Bacchus (20 to
1). William Kelso owns both Fondant and
Bacchus, and they bid fair to be two worthy
representatives of the stable in the Metro-
politan. Bacchus is the more fancied at the
moment, but Fondant may take a lot of
running down —he has 6st. 91b. merely.
For Roseliill on Saturday:—
Dundas Handicap: Bravado; next, Haba-
shon.
Granville Stakes: Blue Star; next,
Lauder.
August Handicap: Prime Don; next, King
William.
Three- and Four-Year-Old Handicap:
Greenline; next, Violian.
Parramatta Mile: Sharp Son; next,
Bawn-na-Glas.
* * * *
The Westralian mare Maple provided the
star turn at Flemington on Saturday. Several
Perth scribes have expressed rather un-
flattering opinions of her, and when she failed
in the Malakoff Stakes at Caulfield recently
it looked as if they were right. But her
victory in the V.R.C. August Handicap was
distinctly meritorious, and as the daughter
of Rossendale and Honey wood looks still a
bit above herself, she must now be reckoned
a dangerous candidate for the Caulfield Cup,
in which she has Bst. 71b.
Cairncross, who had been a bit unlucky
at the Valley recently, was favorite for the
August Handicap, going out at 9 to 4.
Spearer, who has been backed for the Metro-
politan, was at threes, and Maple at sixes
—eights had been bet. Hawick (20 to 1)
and Beppinsan (10 to 1) saw to the pace,
with Maple, Cairncross, Bon Aire, Battery-
man, Valorem and Spearer next. When
heads were turned for home Beppinsan had
control, but Maple, finishing fast, caught the
Rock Flint mare a short distance from the
post and overcame her by three parts of a
length; Spearer, who had been last early,
put in a brilliant run in the straight and
was only half a neck further back. Cairn-
cross, who weakened, finished sixth. The
Perth mare sports the “all red” of Ernest
Lee Steere which Eurythmic made famous;
she was ridden by Duncan. The time was
very good—2min. Glsec.
Farrago, owned by V.R.C. chairman Mac-
kinnon, was all the rage for the Apprentices’
Handicap, 7 to 4 being the best price. There
was a little trouble at the start. The favorite
suffered, but Lady Beth (7 to 1) would
INSIDE INFORMATION.
SECOND: “Jist say to yourself you’ll win and you will win. Kid to yourself, you
unnerstan’.”
’POSSUM: “No good, boss. I know what a plurry liar I am!”
probably have won in any event; at all
events, she jumped out smartly and led all
the way, Farrago being second, a length
and a quarter away. No doubt Farrago will
do better. Spearfelt was amongst the starters,
but, as was only to be expected, was a long
way back at the end. There were several
well-bred ones, with classic engagements, in
the Three-year-old Handicap. Heroic’s half-
brother Cimbrian, on his second to Fara-
manch at Caulfield, was favorite, but third
was the best he could do; Dark Dawn (7
to 1) came home very impressively to win
bv a length and a half from Tutor (12 to
1). An unsexed son of All Black and
Golden Dawn, he is owned and trained by
P. B. Quinlan.
Holt’s followers played up some of their
Maple winnings on Woorgun in the August
Handicap; the Woorak horse, with Duncan
on top, started at 6 to 4. The favorite
looked to have the race won in the straight,
but Southdown (4 to 1), a Seremond geld-
ing in Fred Foulsliam’s stable, finished bril-
liantly after meeting with some trouble and
beat him by a length; Pentola (It) to 1)
got the other position.
* * * *
There was no lack of excitement at Vic-
toria Park (S.A.) on the first day of the
Grand National meeting. Serbury, a warm
favorite for the Stepney Welter, ran badly,
and the stewards, deciding that he had been
pulled by the jockey, Winks, rubbed that
young man out for two years. Elopement,
who won, returned £lO 3s. for £l, and Some
Opera’s div. for second was £3S 4s. Rum-
ford, favorite for the G.N. Ilurdlc Race,
came down over Tallangatta ; Ilesley, a new-
comer to the game, by Cock of the North
Umbrageous, won from Senlac and Pistol
Barrel; his div. was £l7 195., and Senlac’s
£5 2s. Ilesley is owned by W. 11. Heslop, a
Broken llill man. R. E. H. Hope, who makes
racing pay by shrewd buying of yearlings,
has a smart colt in Merab (Two —I..iafail),
who, by making hacks of a big field in the
Adelaide Guineas, registered his eighth suc-
cess. Another Hope purchase, the gelding
Claude Duval, by imported Bold and Bad-
Little Joan, got away with the Fulham Park
plate. Dempsey rode both of Hope’s horses
(11. Butler trains them), who had plenty of
support on the machine; Merab paid £3 25.,
and the two-year-old £5 7s.
* * * *
“Old Q.” : Match racing, once common in
Australia and the Old Country, is of rare
occurrence nowadays, so particular interest
was taken in a w.f.a. Challenge Stakes held
at the Tatt.’s Club meeting in Brisbane on
Saturday, the Q.T.C. having given the neces-
sary permission. The horses were High
Syce, Soulton, Killarney and Kitty Padding-
ton ; each owner put up £lOO and the club
added £200; the distance was a mile. High
Syce, improving remarkably on his showing
in the Denman Plate, was too good this
time for his conquerors on that occa-
sion ; he beat Killarney by a length and
Soulton by another six lengths in lmin.
37i-sec., knocking half a second off flic State
record. The betting was 7 to 4 High Syce,
9 to 4 Killarney, 4 to 1 Kitty Paddington
(who ran badly) and Soulton. High Syce’s
poor performance in the previous race is
attributed to an inflamed mouth. He has
redeemed his reputation, and the challenge
race had a fine sporting flavor.
* * * #
“S.P.”: The A. J.C. showed a profit of
£8577 in 1927-28, but amounts staked on the
totalisator dropped nearly £165,000. The
idiotic method of allotting dividends forced
on the club by meddling Governments was
largely responsible for the falling-off—that
and the extortionate Government tax of 9
p.c. If this tax were reduced to 5 p.c. and
the club were allowed another 1 p.c. or 11
p.c., machines for straight-out and place bet-
ting, with a doubles tote added, might be
installed, with benefit to A.J.C., punters and
consolidated revenue. At leasts the club
would have some inducement to install them.
* * * *
“R. Volt” More people than Kingsford
Smith and his companions have fallen in
owing to their ignorance of or omission to
make allowance for the difference of two
hours between Melbourne and Perth time.
Pavement bookies who used to nourish in
St. George’s-terrace, when the G.P.O. was
situated there, traded on the fact by taking
bets from greenhorns when they had the
result of the race in their pockets; but &
still more remarkable fact was that a tele-
graphist once discovered a pavement, bookie
who wasn’t aware of the difference m time
himself. His shift finished, he was strolling
home along the Terrace when lie observed
the gutter McSliortodds merrily booking bets
on an Adelaide event which had been ancient
history for the past three-quarters of an
hour. Knowing the result, the unscrupulous
fellow laid the entire contents of his purse
on the winning horse, took a turn up the
street and half an hour later returned to
claim the reward of his enterprise.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
There was very little in the “house’ when
Jack Roberts, of Newcastle (9st. Sflb.), and
Ernie Izzard (9st. 71b.) stood up to box
15 rounds at the Sydney Stadium. Roberts,
an earnest young went for the English-
man with no regard for the latter’s skill and
reputation. For a while Izzard stopped lus
advances with an educated left; but Ernest
could not prevent the rugged youngster from
landing some very hot wallops. Izzard seemed
a bit more at home in the second round,
which was even; in the third, however,
Roberts made things very uncomfortable for
the Englishman, who finished off bleeding
at the nose and with scarlet patches on the
ribs. In the fourth round the visitor was
again receiver-general. Near the end of the
session lie swung a right to the tabooed area
and Roberts went down, registering agony.
Referee .Toe Wallis at once laid his hand
on Roberts’s head, saying “Winner, gentle-
men.” And there wasn’t a dissentient voice.
* * * *
Ad Santel is one of those wrestlers who
don’t go in for make-believe ferocity or
anything of the kind. A section of the big
crowd gathered to see him wrestle Bob Kruse
at Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night im-
plored him to “do something” (meaning simu-
lated violence), but the German-American
did not oblige. At times Bob’s toeholds
seemed to hurt Santel, but Ad kept on chew-
ing gum, and was never actually in danger.
Bob incurred wrath by hauling himself out
of the ring when in trouble; however, a short-
arm scissors, perfectly applied in the sixth
round, left him no means of escape, and
Santel scored the only fall. The winner
weighed 13st.; Kruse, 13st. 6flb
Footbrawl
More people attend “the match of the
day” in Melbourne than go to all the League
Rugby games in Sydney; 28,000 squeezed
into the Richmond ground to see if Essen-
don could hold its fourth place. Over-
anxiety or nervousness or just plain in-
competence got the Same Old down; the
Tigers, on the other hand, played a forcing,
relentless game, running out with 146 points
to ’Don’s 77. Richmond’s new forward,
Titus, kicked 9 goals. An equally large
crowd at St. Kilda got more thrills for its
cash; the in-and-out local team, putting in
some brilliant flashes of concerted play, with
gaudy high-marking, beat Melbourne by a
point—B2 to 81. Fitzroy trounced Geelong,
105 points to 81; Collingwood got away
from North Melbourne with 65 to 57; Carl-
ton conquered South Melbourne. 74 to 56;
and Footscray piled up 133 points against
Hawthorn’s 56. With but one more game
to play in the first round, ’Wood, 15 wins,
is safe for first place ; Richmond and Mel-
bourne, 13 wins each, are second and third,
the Tigers having a better percentage of
points scored; for the fourth place Carlton,
’Don and Saints are level with 10 wins.
Saints have no hope, 4heir percentage being
too low. Carlton has a better percentage
than ’Don, but it has to play ’Wood. ’Don
meets Hawthorn, and should win, but to
equal Carlton’s percentage it must pile up
about 40 goals to Hawthorn’s 10. It is a
very interesting situation.
* * *
“Ilotham” : Something of a sensation was
caused in Melbourne football circles by the
suggestion of G. Farnsworth, Footscray dele-
gate to the Victorian League, that Victoria
retire from the Australian National Foot-
ball Council, the governing body of the
Australian game, because it costs too much.
Victoria pays £3OO a year, South Aus. £l5O
and Westralia £75. smaller amounts being
paid by the other States. Tim matter will
be considered at another meeting, when it
is to be hoped it will be turned down. For
the home State of the code to secede from
the federation at this juncture would mean,
not only serious injury to the game in Vic-
toria but in every other State where it is
played.
(Continued from page 41>
IN THE SPUING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now th’ enraptured city maiden sniffs the
breeze boronia-laden
Or the violet-scented zephyr in the most
congested spot,
And the hardened toper’s feeling beer will
soon be more appealing
Than the usquebagh that stingetli or the
rum-and-eoffee h,ot.
Surfing sheiks’ horizon brightens; cops will
soon discard for white ’uns
Winter lids, while in their wardrobes
portly bucks their spats will sling;
Icemen next, experience teaches, will be
hitching up their breeches —
And the bookie slaps his pockets,
For it’s Spring.
'Bailers, many a lusty fellow, and the bar-
rackers that bellow
Will be cultivating shortly less vociferous
pursuits;
White-winged yachts will hit the billow, and
the smiting by the willow
Of the leather be delighting crowds of
critical galoots.
Birds will warble in their winning way—
already they’re beginning—
Jacarandas shed oblations; happy lovers
closer cling;
And the weights of various cuddies furnish
deep-engrossing studies,
And the bookie slaps his pockets,
For it’s Spring.
Most of us could give a reason why we greet
the vernal season
And enumerate the pleasures that we
reckon it will bring.
But he’s on a cert, the ringman; he’s the
veriest sure-thing man....
There’s a brand-new crop of punters
Every Spring.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


PROHIBITION HAI BEEM AM
UTTER FAILURE WHEREVER TRIER
'h'fori
claims
facts
'tpi—
Prohibition is claimed to have en-
sured the PROSPERITY of the
U.S.A.
Prohibition is claimed to be a RE-
VOLT against the abuse of drink.
Prohibition is claimed to be a virtue
which brings all vice into the OPEN.
Prohibition is supposed to protect
HOME-LIFE.
Prohibition claims to promote IN-
DUSTRY.
Prohibition claims that BOOT-
LEGGING can quickly be stamped
out.
Prohibition is alleged to minimise
INIQUITY.
Prohibition is said to bring about
TEMPERANCE.
Prohibition is supposed to promote
INTEGRITY.
Prohibitionists state that their law
promotes ORDER.
Prohibition advocates claim to seek
NATIONAL PROSPERITY.
Economists have proved conclusively
that the prosperity of America is
NOT due to Prohibition at all, and
that Prohibition is a shackle on the
national life.
Prohibition invariably proves itself
to be a cause of revolt against estab-
lished law and order.
The experience of other nations is
that Prohibition fosters vice by driv-
ing it underground.
Prohibition destroys the privacy of
the home and puts it under immedi-
ate supervision by officials.
Prohibition would unload upon both
Capitalists and Workers of N.S.W.
a gigantic burden of extra taxation.
Experience shows that it is the boot-
legging element which most strongly
supports Prohibition.
Prohibition has naturally created
more new forms of iniquity than any
other law.
Prohibition and Temperance are
diametrically opposed because Pro-
hibition itself is intemperate.
Prohibition actually induces crime,
deceit and a contempt for law and
order.
Prohibition has invariably brought
strife and lawlessness in its train.
Prohibition would cost the people
of N.S.W. £20,000,000 in compen-
sation plus £4,600,000 annually in
loss of revenue to the Common-
wealth, with £3,500,000 cost of
enforcement.
Vote for the HONEST Ticket
VOTE NO
Inserted by the CITIZENS’ RIGHTS AND LIQUOR REFORM ASSOCIATION,
to further the cause of Liberty and Freedom of Action. Financial Support is
invited, and Subscriptions for Membership will be received at BELMONT
CHAMBERS, 15 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
e


FAME!!
QN merit alone I was selected to supply the
White Trousers for the visiting West Indies
Cricket Team in 1923. In 1926 the Australians
were wearing clothes made by me; also the
New Zealanders in 1927. The West Indian
team playing in Britain this year are wearing
kit exclusively supplied by me.
These celebrated teams are naturally fastidi-
ous over the cut and quality of their clothes.
Are you?
I have been in business now for 25 years and
my Australian clientele is growing rapidly, as
are the number of repeat orders I receive.
The cloth I use is made by the most reputable
manufacturers from the finest Australian Tops.
The cutters I employ are “live” men with
wide experience of British and Colonial tailor-
ing, and the clothes they make are guaranteed
to give satisfaction.
My prices are based on cash payments only,
Lounge Suits, for instance, costing from 7
to 10 guineas.
w. G. JENNINGS,
119 Newgate Street, London, E.C.I.
AlOW 1
"After all
there’s only
m ONE 'Australia’ ”
Every detail of service and conven-
ience is anticipated in this great hotel
with the world-famous name. Write
for beautifully illustrated folder if you
are thinking of coming to Sydney.
Telegraphic, Wireless and Cable Address:
"Austraotel, Sydney.”
m
m
& A
w
(Capital Paid-up, £422,100)
The Hotel
of the Commonwealth,
Sydney.
ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up—Beautiful
lighting effects—A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Cafe de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines).
{Also under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
Footbrawl
The whistle blew monotonously during the
St. George-South Sydney match at the
Sydney Cricket Ground, but the exhibition
was noticeably milder than previous affairs in
which St. George took part. Playing one
man short almost from the start, the Saints
did well to win by a point, 9-8. The North
Sydney-Balmain match was decorous and
exciting; the result was in doubt until just
before time, when J. Johnson, tli e best
player on the ground, kicked a field goal
for North —20-15. Getting all over Eastern
Suburbs (still on top with St. George) in the
first half, Glebe led by 12 to 5, but it lost
its advantage in the second half, and
lost Hickey and Goddard also, the pair
being sent off. A penalty goal decided it:
East 14, Glebe 12. A Glebe supporter spat
at the referee as t(uit gentleman left the
field. Clever handling and goal-kicking
(Mclntyre landed six) enabled Uni. to defeat
Newtown: Uni., 27 ; Newtown, 21.
* >1: * *
“Te Waipiru” : The English Rugby League
team is pursuing its punchful path through
Maoriland, having now penetrated portions
of the country where the professional code
is comparatively unknown. A propaganda
match at Westport saw Buller defeated by
72 to 3. The affair was described as “a sort
of practice for the visitors.” Evidently the
following game at Greymouth, won by 62 to
13. was of the same type, for the report adds
that it was “marked by many impromptu
boxing bouts,” while the visitors’ rough play
drew “expressions of disapproval” from the
spectators.
The second match between the English-
men and M.L. at Dunedin was the most
riotous of the tour; the game is described
as a brawl fhe like of which Dunedin has
not seen in its football history. Delgrosso,
of Maoriland, had to be carried off on a
stretcher; Horton, of the visitors, was laid
out for 10 minutes; O’Brien, of the home
side, limped off, and Burgess, of England,
was sent off. When the combatants were
finally separated the visitors were declared
to have won by 13 to 5.
* * * #
The Springboks beat the All Blacks in
the third Test match at Port Elizabeth;
they scored 11 to 6, after leading by 2 points
at half-time. Two matches to one and 34
points to 13 —such is their respectable
achievement in these tussles. Counting the
three Tests played in Maoriland in 192.1,
one of which was won by South Africa, one
by M.L. and the other drawn, scores are now
wins by S.A. to 24 by the All Blacks,
and 48 to 31 in points. The Afrikanders
have certainly proved themselves great foot-
ballers.
* * * *
In a brilliant game at Parramatta the
King’s School beat Scots’ College for the
G.P.S. premiership by 18 to 3. .King’s
got 4 tries, 3 of which were converted by
Rowntree, to a penalty goal; the forwards
industriously fed the backs, who re-
sponded with a fine exhibition of fast and
open play. This is King’s 17th win in the
competition since 1890, the inaugural year ;
Grammar, with 10, and St. Joseph’s, with
9, are next in order.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The Rugby Union team
which left for Maoriland on Friday lias suf-
fered a lot of changes from the original
selection, the most unfortunate being the drop-
ping out of Hammill, the Northern Suburbs
winger, injured in grade matches after his
selection. The North Shoreman was a new-
comer to big football, and his inclusion was
very popular over the ’Arbor. Nevertheless,
it is a good team, with youth well repre-
sented and the necessary stiffening of vete-
rans. Matched against all the leading pro-
vinces, it will be tried to the utmost, for the
All Blacks now in South Africa left behind a
team almost as good as themselves, includ-
ing Nepia, Cook, Porter and many another
of high renown. The last N.S.W. side to go
over the Tasman, in 1925, had an easier pro-
gramme, though the cracks were all “at
home” to them. They won 9 of their 11
matches, losing the Canterbury-South Can-
terbury game and the only Test played. This
side may hardly do as well, but one expects
to see more matches won than lost.
* * * *
Most of the Sydney Rugby Union clubs
have had to draw heavily on the lower grades
for reinforcements to fill the places of the
men absent on the M.L. tour, but excellent
football was nevertheless seen on Saturday.
Western Suburbs defeated the leading team,
Y.M.C.A.. by 24 to 9; the Western backs
outclassed the Y.M. division, with the excep-
tion of Waratah Gordon. University missed
the head of the table, being unable to do
better than draw with Eastern Suburbs —
3 tries to 2 tries and a penalty goal. Ross,
the Waratah full-back, figured at five-eighth,
but was overshadowed by Newton, of East.
Northern Suburbs surprised by beating
Randwick by 27 to 14; Hannam played a
fine game behind North’s scrum. St. George
scored its first victory against a reshuffled
Glebe-Balmain side: 16 —15. Farlegh. St.
George’s full-back, was very sound, his kick-
ing being exceptionally good.
“Old Q.”: The progress of the revived
Rugby Union game in Queensland is going
nicely, thank you. Of the various senior
teams being formed to begin a regular com-
petition next season, Y.M.C.A. and G.P.S.
have completed their organisation, and are
playing games against the secondary schools
or practice matches against each other when
schools matches are unavailable. Plenty of
good material is coming forward, and the
Young Men especially are hoping to emulate
the history of their Sydney brethren, who
in a few seasons have earned the right to be
considered one of the finest club sides south
of the Line.
Racquet and Bawl
The Queensland tennis titles have been
transferred to the South. Jim Willard beat
Schlesinger by 3 sets to 1 in the singles
final; Schlesinger and Kalins took the doubles
from Willard and R. Thurlow (Q.) in
straight sets, and Miss Cox defeated Mrs.
Molesworth in the women’s singles. Mrs.
Molesworth, though still a good player, is
not quite the star sin; was.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: In spite of his suspen-
sion—his case is to be considered on Friday
—Tilden appeared in the Eastern American
championships last week, only to be de-
feated by Mercur, a Pennsylvania player, 0-4,
6-3. Hunter, his partner in many tourneys,
who had refused to play unless Tilden was
invited to compete, also went down to the
Texas player Bell. There is a strong irnpres-
NO BEG-PARDONS THEN.
DAD (after hearing account of a strenuous Rugby match): “That Brady’s, Flat mob
ain’t as dirty as they used to be. Cripes, they used to think nothin’ of tearing
a man’s waistcoat off, whether ’e ’ad the ball or not!”
sion that Tilden will be disqualified in the
end, but it is not unlikely that the authori-
ties will adjourn the matter in order to
let him appear against the Australians in the
national championships.
* * * *
“Colonel Damurize”: It is a bit off my
beat, but I cannot help commenting on the
cabled news that a number of young women
employed in the secretariat of the League
of Nations at Geneva have aroused indig-
nation bv playing tennis in “skintight green
shorts.” ' The police are powerless, since
the territory in which the shocking exhibi-
tion occurred is the League’s, and that body
has, apparently, no police or even an official
spanker. Everyone knows how prone the
female of the species is to avidly adopt the
latest fashion, regardless of consequences.
The possibility of associate members ot go it
clubs following the lead of the young per
sons of Geneva makes the very brain reel.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone” : The long-overdue le-
solution authorising tennis umpires to sus-
pend unruly players was agreed to at the
last meeting of the N. S. Wales L. I .A. Ihe
ump. is given power to suspend, and must
report the matter at once to the committee
controlling the tourney, who will deal with
the culprit. This should put an end to tace-
making, racquet-throwing and grass-biting
—unless the authorities fall into the habit
of remitting the penalties, after the amiable
fashion of the Rugby League.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hotliam” : Victoria has a new golf cham-
pion ill W. J. Fowler, of the Commonwealth
Golf Club, who beat Legh Winser, South
Aus. veteran of many championships, by
!) up and 8 to go on Kingston Heath course
last week. Winser had hard luck at the
fourteenth, his ball lodging in a deep hoof-
print, with the result that lie gave up the
hole. However, Fowler, who was two up
at the end of tin l morning round, drew away
steadily, and put the issue beyond doubt,
being 7 up at the 26th and taking the next
two holes. Young Edgar, the title-holder,
failed to qualify, and Nankivell, the Aus-
tralian amateur champion, also went out
before the finals. The foursomes event was
won bv J. Ryan and B. M. Strachan.
* * * =i=
“Baffy”: A recent golfers’ dinner in Bris-
bane was remarkable, among other things,,
for the menu. This pointed out that water
on the table must be regarded as “casual,”
while it was also laid down that “loose im-
pediments” in the speech of the players need
not be noticed. And served with the coffee
was the injunction that “Under the table
is out of bounds.” The true golfing spirit!
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The Queensland country golf
championship this season was won by H. R.
Poon, of Toowoomba, by the solid margin
of 8 up and 6 to play, from the Maryborough
player T. J. Strong. Poon, who was a
representative cricketer some seasons ago,
won every hole in the final save the first,
fourth, sixth and seventh, which were halved.
“Mid Iron”: The legendary youth who
didn’t know whether he could play the fiddle
or not, because he had never tried, couldn t
give points to many golfing neophytes, who
approach the mysteries in a spirit ot reck-
less self-confidence. Such a ° n e was the
lad who, receiving his first lesson from a
friend, was shown the flag on the next
green and told that the object of the game
was to get the ball into the hole. Driving
off, the beginner had the usual mugs luck;
lie laid the ball dead on the pin. Before the
master could find breath for
the pupil hurled his club down _“D it,
he growled ; “I’ve missed the thing.’
* * * *
“The O’Cohen”: Tell “The McHaggis”
(B. 8/8/’2B) that the invention to protect
golfers from losing balls by using a coating
of volatile chloride to produce ammonia is
not likely to be adopted, owing to the dan-
gerous effect of ammonia on golfers. The
same applies to the other plan of filling the
dimple of the ball with an explosive so as
to cause sparks when the thing is struck.
I have a patent now under consideration by
the trustees of the Teddywaddy Amateur and
Friendly Society Golf Club; my idea will re-
volutionise golf and stop all bad language.
Inside the ball is fixed a little red flag,
which flies through a trap-door as soon as
the ball stops rolling. The flag cannot be
released until the ball is dead. The only
objections so far offered are that the players
will have to lift the ball each time to read-
just the flag and that the lie of the ball can
be altered. Still, the lie is often altered
after a match.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: This year’s Australian
golf championships, which will be held on
the Royal Sydney links at Rose Bay on
September 6, 7 and 8, have attracted one of
the biggest entries in the history of these
events, and one of exceptionally high quality.
Maoriland will be strongly represented; J. I.
McGuinness, the Broken 11 ill crack, has
nominated, and L. D Hftrdie, a former
Victorian player, is coming all the way from
Singapore. The Victorian contingent will
include Ivo Wliitton, Edgar Nankivell and
A. W. Jackson, while the ex-Victorian
player C. H. Fawcett, now champion of
N.S.W., can also be called upon. Tassy’s
interests will be attended to by. the Nettle-
folds, father and son, and Legh Winser
and Sawers will carry the South Australian
banner. Clieadle, several times champion of
S.A., will not be available, and neither will
the Queensland amateur champion, Rad-
cliffe, Clive Boyce representing the northern
State. And all the leading professionals will
be seen in the Open.
=1: * * *
“Brassey”: Arthur Duncan. 10 times
amateur golf champion of Maoriland, has
arrived in Sydney to get a fortnight’s prac-
tice before the Australian championships,
which begin early in September. The'veteran
was last, seen here a couple, of years ago,
when he helped to win the Kirk-Windeyer Chip
for Maoriland in the inaugural battle for the.
Australasian trophy. With him are brother
K. D. Duncan and W. B. Mac Ewan; K.D.
will be Arthur’s partner in the foursomes.
* * =» *
“Fluffer” : True it is that the golf germ
spares no one (B. 15/8/’2S). Witness Mrs.
Sutcliffe, of St. Ivilda (Vic.), who is 78;
she plays twice a week at Royal Park,
though she has to make an hour’s journey
from her home. The lady took up the game
in order to cure her sciatica when she was
a mere child of 50, and has since won many
trophies, especially in mixed foursomes.
She is very useful with her approach shots
and on the putting green, and her enthu-
siasm for the game would melt the heart
of even “Colonel Damurize.”
“O’Sporran”: It is interesting to
read in one of those newspaper columns
which try to teach people to play golf by
correspondence, so to speak, that dress is an
important factor in improving play. The
writer in question specially recommends the
wearing of a calfskin coat, because it keeps
the wind out. Most golfers need something
to prevent them getting the wind up. and the
only recognised preventive is applicable to the
inward and not the outward man—it is con-
tained in a flask. The great players of the
past accomplished decent golf without being
arrayed like Solomon or the youthful Joseph,
or even sporting plus-fours. A few years
ago many players appeared in British cham-
pionships in ordinary attire plus sprigged
boots, it being generally held that the wear-
ing of a coat was a safeguard against press-
ing. In those days it was not the thing
for professionals to wear knickerbockers —
the forerunners of plus-fours—and when
Harry Vardon first adopted the breeks, pre-
viously sacred to amateurs, he was regarded
as a person who did not know his place.
The apparel oft proclaims the man in golf
as elsewhere. It is generally the bird of
brightest plumage who is easiest for pluck-
ing in a friendly match for a new ball or
something even more expensive.
(Continued on next page.)


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
gusli
IBBli
Ml B IS B B fill B
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 R00M&
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
e
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
'Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing Tiles
Wunderlich “Durabestos” BuiJding
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
For Fort Years, Manufacturers of Quality
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
and Roofs
Car and Cycle
“Flinders”: Mr. and Mrs. Parker, who
travelled from Perth to Melbourne in a light
Buick Six, did the thing cheaply. Petrol
for the long journey cost a shilling under
£2O, the average consumption, over some
very difficult country, being a gallon to 20
miles. Interesting is the reference of the
travellers to the hospitality of the stations
passed on the way. At Balladonia (W.A.)
they were told that 60 motoring overlanders
going east or west had called during the pre-
vious two months.
* * * *
“Whizz”: The Italians, who have been
doing great things in air speeds, are to have
a shy at the terrestial figures. The Fiat
works are building a special chassis to take
a 1000-h.p. aero engine, and this is to be
given a spin at Daytona Beach next Febru-
ary ; the driver will probably be Major Ber-
nards Other cars likely to be seen in com-
petition are the Stutz special in which
Frank Lockhart was killed at Daytona, the
machine having been reconstructed,, and a
front-drive car now building, which is to be
driven by Ray Kecch, the present record-
holder.
* * * *
“Chev”: An unusual record was put up
by Allan Bruce, the Vic. motor-cycling cham-
pion, in the course of an endurance trial with
an Indian machine. After covering 2000
miles of ordinary road without a stop ; he
essayed the famous Blacks’ Spur 54 times
in two days. The Spur road comprises six
miles of precipitous track, with innumer-
able hairpin bends. Once up and over is
regarded as a good day’s frightfulness for
the average motorist.
* * * *
“Tuwliit”: “Whizz” is in error when he
claims Frank Arthur as a South Australian
(B. 8/8/’2B). Arthur was born in Too-
woomba (Q.), and made his first appearance
in a local event. When the Brisbane speed-
way opened in 1926 he bounded into promi-
nence, and except for occasional appearances
in Sydney and Adelaide' he remained one of
Brisbane’s star motor-cyclists until he went
abroad^
“Sprocket”: Hubert Opperman created an
excellent impression in his first appearance
on the French cycling tracks. The Victorian
turned out in a six-days’ race at Paris,
having the Italian rider Broccardo as his
team partner. The Italian had to withdraw
and the Australian teamed with another
rider, Urago. Opperman rode magnificently
all through, and, handicapped though he was
by Broccardo knocking up, finished with his
second partner in third place. Two Italians,
Titani and Boucheron, won, and the French-
men Choury and Fabre were second.
* * * *
“Push Bike”: One result of the appear-
ance of the Australasian cycling team in the
Tour de France is the decision of the pro-
moter that it shall be a scratch event in
future. The system of team pacing in stages
is to be abolished, and it will be a case
of each man for himself. The promoter
states that this decision has been forced
upon him in view of the inequity of the
former system in cases like those of the Aus-
tralasians.
Miscellaneous
“Fed Up” : It is a matter for regret that
the International Amateur Federation re-
jected the proposal of the Canadians that
track and field events for women be elimi-
nated from future Olympic programmes. The
Canadians were backed up by Britain and
Ireland, and it is a pity that the Australian
representatives could not see their way to
take the same sensible course. The Federation
has, however, admitted the necessity for
some action of the kind by cutting out such
events for women as the 800 metres, the
long jump, shot putting and the 200 metres.
After the 800 metres race at the Olympiad
knocked-out and hysterical females were
floundering all over the place. Competition
in such events can serve no useful or aesthetic
purpose in feminine existence.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Maoriland athletics saw a
king dethroned when Randolph Rose was
beaten into second place by W. Savidaa in
the M.L. cross-country championship of 6]
miles. Savidan’s time was 38min. 46sec.,
which suggests that he is no Nurmi or
liitola. Ritola’s time for the 10,000 metres
at the 1924 Olympiad was 30min. 23 l-ssec.
* * * *
“Ped” : It looks, after all, as if the pro-
posed Empire Games will fall through. In
London last week the British and Dominions
Olympic delegates discussed the proposal to
hold the first meeting in Canada in 1930.
Though no vote was taken, the consensus of
opinion was against the idea, on the ground
that it would be impossible- to hold both
Empire and Olympic Games—one or other
would have to go—and that since nations
outside the Empire would hardly cease to
support the Olympic contests the Empire
proposal would not be worth while. How-
ever it was.decided to form an Empire Sports
Federation to co-ordinate Empire athletics.
* * * *
“Splash”: The cables last week contained
an account of a parade in Moscow of 10,000
“strapping young girls,” attired in one-piece
bathing costumes, the occasion being the in-
auguration of the Red Republic’s reply to the
“capitalistic” Olympic Games. The damsels
were presumably candidates for swimming
events, and enthusiastic, if misguided, writers
for the Sydney flapper press must have shed
tears of agony at the reflection that their
papers had not, at least, an agency and a
photographer in Muscovy. The tragedy is
accentuated by the fact that the hopes of
the flapper press failed at Amsterdam,
although . defeat is no disgrace, and the
amiable little girls did their best. My heart
bleeds for the Sunday paper which, with no
thought of the advertisement, found £4OO to
send one child to Holland, and for the un-
quenchable enthusiast who wrote in another
journal, on the eve of this water-baby’s test,
that her “wonderful times in Sydney” made
her look the best of good things for her race.
The rhapsodist warned his readers not to be
surprised if the infant phenomenon came
second in her heat and in the next round,
since she would “reserve herself for the final.”
As it happened, the poor kid finished last in
her heat. There are some catastrophes over
which a veil should be drawn. This is one
of them.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: It is not always safe these
days to refer to anyone as an alderman, but
most swimmers will j'oin in congratulating
Boaurepaire on his elevation to the
Melbourne City Council. He was a mighty
swimmer for 21 years; in addition to the
many Australian titles he has held he was
champion .of England at 220, 440, 880 and
17G0 yards as long ago as 1908. “Bogey”
lias seen most of his records cracked by the
moderns, but his Australian figures for the
1000 yards, 13min. 26 3-ssee., still stand,
though made in 1922.
* •# * *
“Stretcher”: Cecil McVilly (B. 15/8/’2B)
is something more than a great sculler; he
is probably as good a coach of rowing crews
as Australia can furnish. Successes of which
he could boast if he were of the boasting
type were those of the Tasmanians at Mel-
bourne in 1914 and at Brisbane in 1926,
while he coached the Tassie eight that rowed
second to Westralia at Melbourne in 1925.
He is to be given a decent chance by the
Vic. R.A., for the oarsmen selected for the
King’s Cup are not to be allowed to com-
pete in any race after the A.N.A. holiday
fixture in January. In other words, McVilly
will be able to keep his men together for
three months before the big race—further
evidence that the lesson taught by Westralia
is being taken to heart by the rowing authori-
ties in other States.
* * * *
“Cassareepe”: The third Test match be-
tween England and the West Indians ended
in a victory for the home side by an innings
and 71 runs. West Indies made 238 and
129, Larwood Tate and Freeman dividing
D. J. FOWLER, of the Commonwealth
Club, Oakleigh (Vic.), winner of the
State championship. He learnt his golf
as a caddie.
the wickets. Hobbs top-scored for England
with 159 in the total of 438, H. C. Griffith
of Barbadoes, taking 6 for 103. In spite
of attractive showings against the counties
and M.C.C., the tourists have been out-
classed in the Tests.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Arthur Paere, the dashing
Maoriland . batsman who is qualifying for
Gloucestershire as a profesional, has been
chosen to play for Players v Gentlemen in
the match at Bournemouth on September 5.
Dacre is English by birth, which doubtless
accounts for the almost unique distinction
for a “colonial” player, Midwinter (also
English-born) being the only other case
writer can call to mind. Macdonald, though
the best fast bowler in the world, never
gets a game for the Players.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: The North of England
League cricket clubs continue to snap up
“colonial” players, the latest, being Con-
stantine and Francis, the two fast bowler 3
of the West Indian team. Constantine goes
S. J. MALCOLM, the Newcastle (N.S.W.)
scrum-half, who will captain the N.S.W.
Rugby Union side in Maoriland.
to Nelson, in Lancashire, and Francis to
Seaham, a Durham club. Both are colored
men, and in Constantine’s case piquancy is
added to the situation by the presence of
Blanckenburg, the Transvaal bowler, in the
Nelson team. The color line is more rigidly
drawn in sport by South Africans than by
the Americans even—the S.A. request that
Maoris be omitted from the All Black side
is fresh in mind. It will be interesting
to see whether the South African viewpoint
or that obtaining elsewhere in the Empire
—even in India—will prevail in the Afrik-
ander bowler’s case.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: The Athletic Union of
Australia, the body governing the conditions
of amateur sport in this country, has de-
cided that cricketers receiving money for
playing in Sheffield Shield and other big
matches are professionals. This is in strict
accordance with the rules of the Inter-
national Amateur Federation, which forbid
the title of amateur to any athlete accepting
more than a small fixed sum per day—ss.
is the ruling rate —apart from his expenses.
The N.S.W. Cricket Association has declared
through a paid official that it “does not
recognise” the. Athletic Union. Athletic and
sporting bodies all the world over do so,
however, including the controlling body of
cricket in England. The Athletic Union is
to be complimented on its decision, and hence-
forth the paid Australian cricketer should
be content to accept his rightful status
as a professional—the more so because no
one will think an iota the less of him for
doing so.
* * * He
“Billy the Goose”: I’ve ’ad a bit o’ bad
luck since I worded yer larst, ’avin’ bin
tui’ned down by the Queenslan’ Rugby
Union, wot’s oomin’ inter the game agin.
I put it on ’em ter give me a job as organ-
iser, putting it to ’em that they’d find me
a sorft job in somethin’ else, like 'they useter
do with the other amerchures in the ole days.
The cows turned me down, even w’en I
orfered ter give ’em the dinkum oil uv ’ow
a lotter the League players wuz secret amer-
chures, an’ infringin’ their perfessional
status under the lap. So out I goes ter the
Show, an’ the firs’ thing I strikes is me ole
friend Koongai, the goat Carbine, runnin’ a
match with another of me ole Rocky vi’lets.
Koongai ain’t the goat ’e was, so I gets the
strong ,o’ things an’ backs the other one.
Er course, it’s me luck that me fancy runs
inter a post and spills ’is driver an’ my
beans. So ’ere I am, on the Dublin agin.
There’s no doubt Koongai ain’t the goat ’e
was. I am, though—too right, too right!
Inkpot and Palette.
Froifi an Adelaide daily:—
Wanted, young Widow, to look after young man,
own home, children no object.
Ambiguous.
There is a mass of youthful effort in the
exhibition of the Sydney Art School students
at the studios in Queen Victoria Markets,
and a fair percentage shows promise, and cer-
tifies Julian Ashton a painstaking teacher.
Thre is skill in the treatment of flesh tints
in H. Badham’s oil, No. 113, and in the
composition of the picture; No 54, a still-
life by F. V. Hall, is particularly note-
worthy; and J. N. Digby, D. E. W. Insoll
and G. Marsh show meritorious exhibits.
From an Adelaide critic:—
Colin Cola ha n has dropped in at the Society of
Arts with a collection of paintings of curiously
varied merit. They come from St. Itilda (Vic.)
and from France, and include some large portraits
just made in Adelaide, with views over the city from
a lofty studio. There is a self-portrait that is good
enough for any gallery, and compared with it the
rest of the room disappoints.
George Benson, who was camouflage officer
to the 4th Battalion in the war, has made
36 sheets of paper look like fragments of
the Australian bush at the New Gallery,
Melbourne. Benson has an apt recipe for
producing pleasant pictures, but it is not
obtrusive except in the case of some
autumnal poplars whose advertisement of
the season when they were painted is a
trifle blatant. He handles his tones very
ably on the ivhole, and his choice of subjects
always leans towards the picturesque.
The Agricultural Gazette, run by the
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture, lost its
editorial chief with the death of “Bill”
Brown. Brown first learnt to write
about the prize spud on the Christchurch
Weekly Press ; he was on the Farmer
and Settler in Sydney when lie was re-
quisitioned by the department 16 years
ago, and nine years back he became
editor of the Gazette. So many officers
applied for leave to attend the well-liked
“Brownie’s” funeral that the Department of
Agriculture might almost have shut its
doors that afternoon.
“O. McKay M.”: Half a dozen Sydney
newspapermen have a grievance against Cap-
tan Cave-Brown-Cave and some of his offi-
cers. Anyone may refuse a reporter an inter-
view ; but there is no excuse for doing it dis-
courteously, and the Supermarines’ methods
have been warmly resented in Sydney daily
newspaper offices. An S.M.H. man who ex-
perienced an uncalled-for rebuff got his own
back, though. Throughout the paper’s reports
of the fliers’ doings the hyphenated com-
mander was punished by being described as
plain Captain Cave!
“Kyn”: Jimmy Mackay, one of the
trainees of the late Sam Whittaker on the
defunct Melbourne Evening Standard, has
written his last article and read his last
proof. When the Standard was swallowed
by the Herald, Mackay went to West Aus-
tralia. Later he was the Melbourne represen-
tative of the Australian Worker (Syd-
ney). Then he went to the Hobart
World, and after that faded out became
associate editor of the Hobart News, which
is also a memory. Latterly he was on the
Daily News, Perth. A fine all-round, adapt-
able man, he always acknowledged his in-
debtedness to his first guide, Whittaker.
THE FIRST ODE TO SPRING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘‘Over 100,000 spring poems are written in Sydney
each year. — Sunday Pictorial.
The rain is lashing the lainps outside and
the wind is a howling wail.
The streets are shouting a mad refrain in
the teeth of an August gale,
l he hands of winter are on the town with
the terrible things they bring—
By a fitful fire, with a mad desire, I am
writing an ode to Spring!
The grass outside is as grey and dried as
the arms of that ghostly tree,
Though never a bird all day was heard, they
sing like the deuce for me;
I’ve a nasty cold as 1 write of gold, and
that asinine sort of thing,
It’s a cheerless room, and I sit in gloom com-
posing my ode to Spring!
I’ve never written an ode before, and I
doubt if I shall again.
Unless it’s a wail of an August gale and the
whine of the wintry rain ;
But far and wide, in my youthful pride, the
fame of my name will ring.
I’ll die with the boast that I beat the host
with the very first ode to Spring!
N.S.W.
GILBERT MANT.


Even a short ride
will convince you
that the
perfected
hippet
is “the most valuable car ever
offered for so little money”
There is an element of pleased
surprise in driving the WHIP-
PET for the first time that can-
not be fully expressed in words.
There has never been another
light car of its class that has given
the same feeling of fine car thrill.
And now you can buy it at an
unbelievably low price its
quality unchanged, its equip-
ment improved, its performance
proven by more than 200,000
owners in millions of miles of
driving.
Even a short ride in a WHIP-
PET will demonstrate the car’s
remarkable qualities flashing
acceleration, great power on
hills or heavy roads, high speed
instantly and for a long distance,
with a sense of complete safety
inspired by its road-hugging
low-centre of gravity, and its
large, mechanical four-wheel
brakes. It offers easy riding,
convenient handling, easy park-
ing, unusual beauty of line and
colours—and above all—unpre-
cedented economy.
There are six handsome body
styles. Choose one of those now
on display in our showrooms
and let a trial drive convince
you of the superlative quality
and performance of this Over-
land Whippet.
£
m
n-nrnq
/»
A
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED, 148 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
OVERLAND (VIC*) PTY„, LIMITED, 117-21 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LIMITED, Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, Franklin Street, ADELAIDE.
ADAMS 5 MOTORS, LIMITED, 442 Murray Street, PERTH.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LIMITED, 53-56 Bathurst Street, HOBART.
WILLYS - OVERLAND FINE MOTOR CARS


Under
Royal
Warrant
w
To H.M.
GeorgeV
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
Champagne
'-baiiesHeidsiecs
Reims
r. m
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
rMADy
*676
piWALLOVv
ARIELLS
6
UISINS
Cakes and puddings are appre-
ciably improved by the inclu-
sion of these choicest of all
raisins. Ask friend Grocer!
£
<53
The centre of Queens/anc/s
c/istinguishec/ Soc/ot Li/e.
Cntnons
e
motel
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attacneo. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Line*
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SLIPPER
HEEL
SILK HOSIER
The Bulletin asked the judges to find
one first-prize story, and they came back with
two in their hands, and both of them the
work of women. What the judges describe
as “our first choice” is a quiet historical
study, “A House Is Built,” and you will
find the two authors of it looking at you
rather shyly from this page. One is Florence
Sydney Eldershaw, the other Marjorie Bar-
nard: the former a teacher at the P.L.C,
Croydon ; the latter, librarian at the Tech-
nical College. Both of them are Sydney
graduates.
History, economics and English were Miss
Eldershaw's star subjects; out of doors she
rides well, swims badly and is a crack at
most ball games. Her biggest historical
work apart from the novel was a pageant
staged at the P.L.C. last year depicting the
progress of civilisation ; “Flora Sydney” not
only wrote the book, but produced the stupen-
dous show. She is not afraid of a large can-
vas.
Marjorie Barnard was medallist in history
at Sydney Uni., and her other pet subject is
English. She is not addicted to sport, but
she can run a house to perfection, and bake
a cake or cook a dinner with Mrs. Beaton
herself. Music and gardening are her recrea-
tions, and walking and reading her vices.
The two girls have worked together for
12 years, and it is impossible to find any
loose joints in this tremendous “A House Is
Built” —it is as long as two ordinary full-
sized novels.
The second £5OO goes to Katharine
Susannah Prichard, of Westralia —the wife
of Captain Throssel, V.C., in private life.
Unlike the other two, she is a professional
writer, who first came into world-notice
through winning the £lOOO offered 4 by
Hodder and Stoughton for a “Colonial”
story. And a thousand friends of Vance
Palmer and his wife will rejoice that this
popular and hard-working Queenslander has
gained the only other prize awarded—for a
story splendidly suited for serial publication,
the judges say, and of a quality so good that
it was sheer hard luck that it had to meet
two such competitors as “A House Is Built”
and “Coonardoo” in one race.
In silver lettering on thick white paper,
Sydney friends are being invited to the
marriage of Toti dal Monte and Enzo de
Muro Lomanto. It is timed for half-past
eleven at St. Mary’s Cathedral to-morrow
(Thursday), and later on Romano’s will
spread the feast, which is being hosted by the
Charles Taits. This will be immediately
preceded by the civil marriage by Consul-
General Grossardi. Toti’s married name
will be De Muro, Lomanto being only the
stage name of her bridegroom. A three
days’ honeymoon is all the two can steal
from their engagements, and on Monday the
smiling Toti and her young man will .appear
together in “Tales of Hoffmann.”
What a plump and laughing little hand
is Toti dal Monte’s! From a long tight black
sleeve that flared out like a reversed gaunt-
let knuckle-deep, it flashed back and forth, up
and down, a gay thread on the shuttle of a
conversation that weaved the design of her
wedding. “The wedding dress it will be
of lace 16 yards. Very difficult to obtain in
Sydney so much of the sort I want.” Here
a finger darted out, curled and twisted as
though describing a pattern. “The train it
will be six yards long. Nearly I cry when
first I try on ze dress. Zai have not enough
lace, so zai make with too short a train!
What are we to do? It was luck; zai find
zai have just enough of zat lace left —just
anozzer 16 yards—not anozzer inch.”
The dress will be tight as to bddice and
full as to skirt. The veil is to be of silk
ninon, swathed around the chin and face “as
ze nun”; then it will flow out. (Here the
hand depicted immeasurable distance.) “Ah,
but the girls who make my head-dress they
are so clever. It is of marguerites, made of
the ninon with yellow centres—ver’ pretty.”
Four tiny pages, little girls picked from the
company, principal of them the littlest one in
the “Aida” ballet, will bear the train. And
then, “Because I like always to give ze
flowers, I shall carry a basket filled with
Posies, and these I give to ze people as I
pass:” The round face under the black
hat beamed like a baby’s. “Too many people,
Toti.” objected Manager Claude Kingston ;•
“not enough flowers.” Toti reflected a
second; then she beamed harder than ever.
“Well, zen, I give ze flowers after I get
into ze motah. It will be bettair—and more
safe!” Nevin Tait will give the bride away,
Schubert’s “Ave Maria” will be sung, and
the male principals from the company will
form a bodyguard for Toti and her Enzo.
The young man, incidentally, is a tea-addict.
And that is unusual enough for remark. Sons
and daughters of Italy, as a rule, drink tea
as a medicine, to open up the skin.
After three toasts had been drunk in cold
tea, “Auld Lang Syne” was sung by the
members of the Country Women’s Associa-
tion at their good-bye party to Lady de
Chair. Well, perhaps, eleven thirty in the
morning is a bit early for the production
of a liip-flask; and anyhow, Mrs. Matt
Sawyer, Mrs. Colin Venn and Mrs. James
Ashton frown on such things. A cheque for
over £3OO handed to Mrs. Colin Venn to
help Keera House carry on no doubt made
the beaded bubbles rise and the billy brew
taste like champagne. Good music, too, and
masses of fragrant freesias and sweet pea
were other happy ingredients of the morning.
The room in the Australia that stands where
once there was a galleried space above the
Winter Garden was the scene of the party.
Lady de Chair made a jolly speech, rather
like a frank schoolboy, and told the big
gathering how she liked being surrounded
by Australians and how greatly she admired
the work of the C.W.A. Then everybody
walked up and said good-bye.
Lady de Chair, who has been the Music
Society’s patron since her arrival in Sydney,
was the pivot of the night’s entertainment.
The principal reason for the gathering was
to say farewell to the Vice-Reine, who
intends to wander through the Islands of
the Pacific while Sir Dudley is in England.
To help her on her travels the society pre-
sented her with two bags; one a handsome
travelling-bag of leather, the other a blonde
hand-bag of handsome design. Lady de Chair,
whose delphinium blue georgettes swung a
—BULLETIN photo.—May Moore photo.
Miss ELDERSHAW and Miss BARNARD, joint winners of one of the two First
Prizes of £500 each awarded in The Bulletin’s Prize Story Competition.
beaded fringe, had brought the musical Wal-
ter Swinsons to bear her company. Kathleen
O’Connor, who sang one of her own songs
as well as two of Roy’s, did her part in
shimmering green raiment, in her slim dark
beauty suggesting the spirit of the Dark
Rosaleen. Gertrude Barton, the society’s
Heaven-born secretary, overlooked the work
of her hands from beatific jade-green georg-
ettes.
The first Conference of Catholic Women
ever held in Australia will be housed
in the Civil Service dining-hall on
September 10 and 11. under the pre-
sidency of Mrs. John Barlow. These
dates coincide with the Eucharistic Con-
gress, and papers on every subject of
interest to the community will be read by
professional Catholic women of every State
and Maoriland. Already a French woman
journalist, the Countess de St. Clair, has
arrived in Sydney to “write up” the Con-
gress and the Conference for Paris papers,,
and Miss O’Connor from Italy is about due.
She will write on the position of Italians
in Australia, and her researches will last
at least ten months.
Neutral Bay is thrilled over the engage-
ment of its resident bishop. His Grace
D’Arcy-Irvine last week announced his
honorable intentions towards Miss F. G.
Angus, formerly of Bowral, now of the same
water-front suburb as himself.
Hockey girls from six States made David
Jones’s dining-room blink the other night.
The dinner was by way of a welcome to the
inter-State players. On a tide of laughter
and cheers the table decorations of the home
teams were viewed and judged. Mrs.
Osborne, a one-time South Aus. president,
and Miss Imrie, of Victoria, handed out the
first prize to the Nereids, who had turned
the centre of their table into a lake on which
water-lilies floated. The Excelsiors showed
the snow-clad mountain and the toiling
young climber whose banner bore the strange
device. The vegetable kingdom supplied
inspiration to the girls from the Bank of
N. S. Wales: a prize cauliflower with a
fuchsia ruffle was the table centre, while
turnips frilled and bowed in fuchsia tones
were used for name cards. Boomerangs and
skulls were among the sterner stuff chosen in
decoration schemes. Dr. Marie Hamilton,
president of the All Australian Women’s
Hockey Association, was , the evening's
hostess.
Not long ago “The Arcadians” was pro-
duced by the Sydney Operatic Society in the
interests of the Picton Lakes T.B. Settle-
ment. E. J. Tail lent the Criterion for
the afternoon, and a graceful recognition of
his kindness was shown at the Arcadians’
dance last week, when the comimittee pre-
sented daughter Jessie with a crystal read-
ing lamp. Narly one thousand danced at the
Wentworth to further the deserving cause,
and as many as could bought the quaint
dolls made by the clever patient fingers of
Miss Georgina Kelso King, still doing her
bit at eighty. Mr. Grant Hanlon, organiser
of the appeal, and Mrs. Grant Ilanlon, were
among the night’s entertainers.
The appearance of Lily Titheradge (Mrs.
Herrick Knowles) with Margaret Banner-
man was made an event at the Criterion on
Saturday; at the end of the night's proceed-
ings there were more floral tributes piled
around the local lady than around the visit-
ing star.
Nevin Tait’s .accidental appearance in the
stage background, a cause for hilarity on
the opening night of “Andrea Chenier,” had
an explanation. In the previous act the
revolutionaries had eagerly bought up news-
papers which didn’t look' anything like the
papers which would have been sold in the
days of the French Revolution —they were
all too plainly copies of our own Evening
Bloodstain. It was a blemish in produc-
tion calculated to agitate a man who has
handled the outpouring of lavish thousands
to make the operas perfect in every detail;
and Nevin Tait, having gone round to dis-
cover who was responsible, was still too
engrossed in his quest to notice that the
new act had started.
Tranquil pictures; eager, vibrant pic-
tures! Here a group of gums painted by
the sun-steeped brush of Lister Lister; there
the enigmatic eyes of Watkins’s Pandora,
the smiling grace of Bowring’s little girls,
or Nature in reflective mood as glimpsed
by John Banks. Something of all these
added to the vibrant tumult in Ray Lind-
say’s canvas were in the Roy Agnew com-
positions which formed most of the pro-
gramme at the British Music Society’s
party, housed in the bosom of the Royal Art
Society’s show. Frank Hutchens’s sonata
for piano and violin was another beautiful
example of what Australian composers are
capable.
One of the women connected with the
Children’s Welfare League was motoring
through Surry Hills when the sight of two
children, woefully unclothed and wearing the
sores of malnutrition, caused her to pause.
The poor kids ravenously ate the food she
brought them, and their benefactor realised
that the league, doing much good, was still
missing its step. An SOS flashed round to
her friends; and on June 5 last a league
depot was opened in Foveaux-street to supply
a midday meal of milk and breakfast-meal to
those who need it; a rummage for clothes
has also helped the youngsters to greater
decency and warmth. No fewer than 97
children rolled up for the first meal; but the
number has swollen until the latest tallied
attendance was 231—it takes 70 or SO gal-
lons of milk per week to supply them all.
The growth of the good work has called for a
wider SOS, and all those who would like
to help unfortunate children to feel less
hungry and cold arc asked to send donations
and clothes to the Free Milk Depot, Child-
ren’s Welfare Association, Foveaux-street,
Surry Hills.
Sydney will have a chance to wish a happy
journey to the Viking and his lady at the
Moore Park Palais to-night. The committee
for the relief of distress among T.B. sailors
and soldiers is combining a public farewell
to the State Exes, with the function in aid
of the Cause. Mrs. 11. C. Ilagon is president
of the function, Elizabeth Knox the organiser.
A posy for each committee woman and
a posy for each member of the press was the
pretty compliment paid by Monsignor King
to. the . workers in the interests of St.
Michael’s at Stanmore. The cabaret at the
Ambassadors last week lured over GOO, presi-
dent Mrs. E. G. Theodore being responsible
for a table of 50. The hostess, who was
hatted and frocked in jade-green, had her
table massed with pink camellias and hya-
cinths culled in the early morn from her
garden at Kirribilli. The centrepiece was
formed of little gold-encrusted vases linked
'by gold chains brought from Venice. These
blooms later on found eager buyers. Hand-
some Mrs. Tom Hogan, who is off next
week for another look at Europe, kept this
table bubbling with amusement at her fund
of witty stories.
Dorothy Bruche, daughter of the Briga-
dier Bruches, is olf on a journey to Colombo
that is to end as, according to the proverb,
all journeys should. The young man is
Captain Aird Smith, of the Indian Army,
and mother and sister Olga attend the
bride as far as Colombo, where the wedding
is to take place.
The engagement is announced of Major
Clive Joske, M.C., of Suva, to Betty Pear-
son, daughter of James Rae Pearson, Secre-
tary for Indian Affairs. Clive is a son of
Mrs. A. B. Joske, of Sydney, and has man-
aged the .Joske business in Suva since the
death of his father shortly after the son’s
return from the war, in which he served
with the Air Force. In the interval Clive
was a decorative Government House aide.
Society tootled its car along to St. Mark’s
the other afternoon to see Evelyn Mac-
kellar linked up with Bill Crossing. Most
of the guests came from Darling Point or
Point Piper—the fashionable marriage
smithy is just round the corner. There was a
breezy lack of formality about this wedding
that spoke louder than a pman the popularity
of both bride and ’groom. Evelyn is the
elder daughter of the J. E. Mackellars, of
Braidwood; the young man is the son of the
Percy Crossings, of Darling Point. Old lace
that had formed her mother’s wedding rai-
ment served the bride. Built on the old-
fashioned plan of high waist and full skirt,
it wore its sleeves long and tight. Over it
swept a veil train of filmy lace, lent by
Mrs._ George Walker; and with this was
carried a small gilt basket of hyacinths and
forget-me-not. Up the aisle, decked with
peach blossom and pink and silver bells,
followed the ’maids, sister Nuttie and Lesly
Crossing, and the matron of honor, Mrs.
Wallace Arnott, all apple-green net and apple
blossom. Mrs. L. J. Davies, the bridegroom’s
aunt, lent her home at Point Piper for the
subsequent rejoicing, and here Mrs. Mac-
kellar presided in cinnamon laces and a soft
felt hat of the same flavor.
Another North Shore line girl who went
north to be married was Elizabeth Nellie
Caldwell, of Killara, who became Mrs. A. T.
Knight, of Kuala Lumpur, at the Presby-
terian Church in Singapore. Aunts Mrs.
T. Green and Miss Marie Copland supplied
the family support. White georgette lined
with pink and a rare old lace veil which
billowed out into a train enwrapped the
pretty bride. After it was all over Mrs.
Green and Miss Copland set sail for Aus-
tralia by way of Hong Kong.
St. John’s, which seems to draw more and
more greyly within itself from the clamor of
Darlinghurst, smiled cheerfully on a fluffy-
white bride last week. She was Jean Hicks,
daughter of the T. H. Hickses, of Double
Bay; and her bridegroom was Joseph Lene-
han, son of the late Colonel Lenehan and
of Mrs. Lenehan, of Bellevue Hill. White
Chantilly and white tulle formed the thistle-
down frocking of the principal lady. The
bridesmaids trod the aisle after her in
velvet shoes of pale-pink, and were frocked
and hatted in the same water-melon tones.
Later Mr. and Mrs. Hicks welcomed the
guests at the Ambassadors.


A. SAUNDERS’
QUALITY” JEWELLERY.
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamond Cluster,
set Platinum
18et. Gold R>ng,
£6/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’
Single Diamond,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’
6 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
IBct. Gold Ring,
£lO.
A. SAUNDERS’
3 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£l2/10/-
a
AJUUMSXS
tSfe, <5:
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Jewelled Lever
Watch, Silk Wristband,
£7/10/-
15ct. Gold, £B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’ Single Diamond, Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch,
£7/10/-
WE GIVE A WRITTEN GUARANTEE
WITH EVERY WATCH SOLD.
30 CDS _
A.SAUIIDtRS “*
oi-»cg^Es
A W W
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Jewelled Lever
Watch, Silk W: istband,
£lO.
18et. Gold, £l2/10/-
03 tO Q
o
r*
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Jewelled Lever
Watch, Silk Wristband,
£3/10/-
WRITE FOR RING BOOK with Size
Card, it’s FREE.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDERS.
A. Saunders’
Diamonds, Octa-
gon-shaped Plati-
num-set 18ct.
Gold Ring,
£l5
A. SAUNDERS’
Single Diamond,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
ISct. Gold Ring,
£2O.
A. SAUNDERS’
4 Diamonds,
Octagon-sLi.ped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamonds, set
Platinum
18ct. Gold Ring,
£25
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker—Jeweller —Optician,
•OVBJ.I GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY
REMOVAL NOTICE
on and after
1 Oth SEPTEMBER, 1928
business will be conducted at
OUR NEW ADDRESS—
Australian Federal Chambers
21 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN FEDERAL
LIFE & GENERAL ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
and its associate companies—
THE AUSTRALIAN PROBATE
AND GENERAL ASSURANCE CORP., LTD.
AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
and
THE PEOPLE’S PRUDENTIAL
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(Established 1896.)
V. A. C. PARTRIDGE, F.A.1.5.,
Governing Director.
THE DE LUXE
Price £l2/12/-
U NIVERSAU
A Home
as Clean as
a New Pin !
NO matter how hard you
work, no matter how many
hours you spend cleaning you
simply cannot get all the dust
with broom and dust pan. The
only wholly efficient method is
to use a
UNIVERSAL
DE LUXE CLEANER,
which sucks every particle of germ-laden dirt and dust
from carpets, walls, rugs, furniture, cloths and
draperies. Ask for a demonstration at our Showrooms
now —you will be surprised at the low cost of the
De Luxe when you see it in action.
W.G. WATSON & CO. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 279 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
cooiSS
res^jy
■
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of toute and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildir-r
(Next G.P.0.).


w
SMOKERS !
r Here is something
different to relieve a dry
mouth or tickling throat.
Try
‘Allenburvys’
Glycerine &
Black Currant
PASTILLES
and be delighted with their
soothing effect and refreshing
flavour.
Your Chemist stocks them.
II- and 1/9 per box
e
NAM Els
_ To Mark
AULinen
Indispensable to every Household.
CASH’S NAMES, are destincrive,
yet neat fadeless and durable^
c 0 33
Sold by all
Best Drapers
Actual Site, Style No, 6
Prices:
I2dz, 7/6.
6dz, 5 / 6.
3dz, 3/6
‘ 'A few stitches end they're on, *
Write for Name Style Circular to
3. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Melb
WASHING
RIBBONS
AS NEW
AFTER
REPEATED
WASHING"
SOLD BY
LEADING
DRAPERS
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for.the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.
J-t&L
n\
o
Vnf Finc/t Inland Golf"
Unlcr inAurhalia
Are to be found at the
finest Country Hotel
in Australia the
Management—G. M. Lievain I
ROBERTSON
Inclusive Tariff, from £l/1/- per
day, and from £6/6/- per week.
Sydney Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street.
’Phone: 86491.
Melbourne
Chatter
On Saturday ike Y.R.C. put on a meet-
ing at Flemington in weather that was quite
up to the best early summer sample. Un-
wise virgins—and matrons—who had not
spring ensemble suits in readiness positively
sweltered in winter garments —truly gar-
ments of repentance, as Omar hath it. The
change of •temperature was chiefly reflected
in the hats worn, for straws —many of the
shiny variety—had a first outing. Black
seemed to predominate, though fawn and
beige were popular for gowns. The en-
semble two-piece had many backers. Mrs.
Richard Linton appeared in one of the
smartest examples of fawn and fancy check
‘material that had on the fur collar the
newest thing in posies of shiny leather in
natural colors. Mrs. Percy Dawson fea-
tured with her dove-grey coat and skirt an
aviator cap of fancy crimson straw. Mr.
and Mrs. R. S. Whiting were there with
Margaret Gilrutli. Mrs. Eric Harrison’s
black and white spotted georgette two-piece
outfit was bordered with black fur topped
by a glossy straw hat. Mrs. A. V. Kewney
was tailored in brown, and Mrs. Charlie
Mitchell had a silver shake about the waist-
line of a black velvet gown. The Feehans,
Mrs. Ben Cliaffey, the Tabarts, the John
Winter Irvings and the Scarletts were some
of the faithful followers of the sport who
turned out. The younger set, which was
well represented, has positively rushed the
revived Apache ’kerchief of this season:. it
appeared upon every sort of costume, with
not much regard for appropriateness in some
cases.
The only big ball of the week was that of
the Aero Club at St. Kilda Town Hall.
A model ’plane hung beneath the clock:
shields bearing the names of our famous
aviators mingled with lights and streamers
of the colors of the R.A.A.F.. and lamp-
shades depicted incidents of the flying world.
Dainty sparkling broocli-’planes were pre-
sented to the ladies with their programmes.
Mayor and Mayoress Morell were official
guests; and daughter Sheila, in a flounced
frock of pale yellow, helped Mrs. C. L.
Greenliill with ticket sales. The Mayoress
wore beneath a silver-lame coat a gown of
sapphire-blue ring velvet. Mrs. C. N. McKay,
wife of the president of the club, headed
the committee, her black taffeta frock being
covered by a handsome wrap of blue-grey
velvet patterned in bois-de-rose. Mrs. W.
Sheldon, the lion, organising sec., came to
the jazz wearing a deep petunia-hued frock
traced with steel beads. Mrs. Greenliill
chose .gold lame, and Mrs. Guy Moore, wife
of the A.C. sec., had some blue-and-gold em-
broidery about the hetn of a cosmos-mauve
gown. Air-Commodore Williams accompanied
liis wife, who was one of the stage managers
of the evening; she wore black heavily
fringed with crystal. Colonel Brinsmead was
also there with his wife, who was in glisten-
ing powder blue. Interest centred around
Mrs. C. T. Ulm, whose black tulle-and-net
frock trailed like the plumage of the peacock.
Kathleen Alicarn was one of the nice girls
present, her almond-green draperies having
a white flower perched on one shoulder;
Joyce Hammond was in a bunched-taffeta
frock of rose pink; Kathleen Rogers Thom-
son was a contrast in cerise georgette frills;
Kitty Currie softly glimmered in faint pink
and crystal; Joan Syme wore floating draper-
ies of deep violet; and Nancy Syme was de-
murely frocked in black velvet.
Federal Attorney-General Latham and his
wife decked up their home, Flete, with pink
peach blossom on Saturday night, and there
was jazzing toward. The hostess wore a
glimmer of gold beneath a filmy black lace,
and daughter Freda’s plaits dangled upon an
almond-green frock. To make the guests
acquainted, partners for the first four dances
were arbitrarily allotted, and the innovation
proved very succcessful. Among the dancers
were Dr. and Mrs. Douglas Stephens, Dr.
and Mrs. Frank Apperly, Professor and Mrs.
Aex. Gunn, Prof, and Mrs. Skeats and the
W. S. Newtons.
There was a naval wedding at St. Peter’s,
Eastern Hill, on Saturday, the principals
being Lorna Evison, an English girl, and
Lieutenant-Commander John G. D. Onvry,
Il:N., who is on exchange here for a couple
of years at Flinders Base. The bride, who
was clothed in white satin, with a tulle veil,
was attended by Margaret Cowling, arrayed
in a peach-pink frock. Officers from the
base made the traditional arch of steel out-
side the church door after the ceremony.
Mrs. E. Evisou, who accompanied her
daughter from the family home in Surrey,
held a reception at the Windsor, where a
mostly-naval company was headed by Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. Napier.
With full choral accompaniment, Ethel-
wyn Frances, only daughter of the H. .T.
luges, of St. Kilda, exchanged vows with
James B. Aitken at all Saints’ Church, St.
Kilda. The bride followed the mode of the
moment by choosing a gown of ivory velvet
prinked up with seed pearls, and a veil of
rare old lace. Nan Pincott came from Gee-
long to assist as ’maid, suggesting the first
rose of summer in pale pink georgette with
touches of blue, topped by a flower-decked
straw hat. The after-celebrations were at
No. 9.
Mollie Nicol and Lieutenant Esmond
Sirisier, who lately disentangled themselves
from a motor wreck, have decided to con-
tinue sharing life’s adventures together, and
have announced their pact.' Miss Nicol is
the only daughter of Mrs. F. H. Nicol, who
presides over Uxbridge Nursing Home. The
young man, dubbed “Cherry” by his intimates,
is the youngest son of the 11. M. Sirisiers
of Warwick, Queensland. He is a Duntroon
student attached to the Australian Staff
Corps, and is on the list for Indian service.
An engagement that is causing a flutter in
legal dovecots is that of Trixie McCay to
G. O. Reid. Both are barristers, and they
were admitted to the Bar on the same day.
The romance began some years ago when
they were at the ’Varsity together. Miss
McCay is a daughter of James McCay, of
legal, military and political fame.
“The Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith” mystified
rather than shocked a crowded audience
at the Comedy Theatre on Saturday
night. Those who were not bored were
mildly amused. Certainly no one seemed hor-
rified at the goings on. The archaeological
interest of the kerosene lamps is spoiled by
the quite visible intrusion of electrical con-
nections. The one glad gown for which the
unwillingly wicked one, who is Irene
brugh, sheds her virtuous navy blue and
black jumper suits, consists of tiered draper-
ies of pink georgette spanned across the chest
line with glittering outspread wings. A
dull gold shawl is a suitable addition. Pru-
dence Vanbrugh, as the injured wife, sports
a deep yellow frock with some gold tracery
and a bois-de-rose scarf. Gwynne Whitby’s
black chiffon and gold-trimmed cape ensemble
gown and dainty grey frock fit nicely into
the picture. In the first-night audience were
the Colin Frasers, Dr. and Mrs. Ivan Gut-
mann, the George Russells, Mr. and Mrs.
W. M. Robins and Mrs. W. Merry.
Fernando Autori, of the Grand Opera Co.,
besides being a great singer, is some-
thing of an artist; and he has drawn
for us Dal Monte and her ’groom, the
latter in the act of singing from “La
Sonnambula” the phrase “Take the
Ring I Give You.”
The Carrolls have struck what looks like
yet another money-spinner in “White Col-
lars,” which kept a full house chortling
with laughter on Saturday night. Being a
middle-class play, staged in an office and
apartment-house setting, the dressing is of
the simplest. The ladies of the cast were
given numerous floral gifts, and huge collars
of white camellias were handed to the two
leading masculines. Dr. and Mrs. Barry
Thomson, Mrs. C. J. Ahern and her two
children, Mrs v W. Mitchell and Miss O’Don-
nell were among the first-night throng.
Footscray was on tiptoe the other day
to welcome Dame Nellie Melba, but the
Queen of Song, who was fighting a cold, had
to give in and retire to bed for some days.
The diva had intended being present bo hear
Alban Whitehead, a lately-discovered basso,
who is going abroad for further polish, sing
at a concert at the Barkly Theatre, and the
occasion was made a civic event. Mayor
McCormack read the telegram of apology, and
announced that Dame Nellie would visit the
suburb before she set out for Europe. The
Dame’s latest protege exercised a fine voice
in a group of songs that included Schu-
mann’s “I Will Not Grieve.” Violin solos
by Margery Gray, recitations by Louie Dunn,
and concerted items by various local choirs
completed the programme. Mayor Morell and
Fritz Hart of the Albert-street Con. said
encouraging things about Alban Whitehead’s
prospects.
This slip of girlhood believes that life
should be filled with earnest purpose, and
lives up to her ideal. She is Iris Davis, who,
though fond of games, has turned aside from
them to
shoulder the
duties of
c i t i z e nship.
She is on the
committee of
the Women’s
Hospital and
gives assist-
ance to the
many enter-
prises always
brewing to
satisfy the
hospital’s fin-
ancial appe-
tite. Another
cause to which
her time and
service are
cheerfully ac-
corded is the
Junior League
of Music
Makers, whose
aim is the establishment of a permanent
orchestra. Ruskin made the picture.
The Embassy was handed over by Jennie
and Eileen Brenan one afternoon last week
for a children’s fancy : dress party, run by the
Kew-Hawthorn Auxiliary for St. Vincent’s
Hospital. The popular dancing teachers took
an active hand in the afternoon’s jollification,
their pupils, who tripped about as animated
dolls, leading the fun. Mayor Morell was re-
minded that he had a birthday when a wee
fairy stepped out of a huge cake and pre-
sented him with a monogrammed hanky and
an iced cake. A bouquet of orchids was pre-
sented to the Mayoress. * Marie de Bavay,
president of the committee, a cluster of vice-
presidents which included the Cussen lady,
Mrs. J. J. Daly as lion, sec., and Mrs.
D. H. Bureau as purse-liolder, were the chief
engineers of a very successful party.
General Johnston's daughter Gwen added
a scalp to an already well-filled belt when
she w r on the Yering Cup at the point-to-
point meeting of the Yarra Glen-Lilydale
Hunt Club. The thousand or more who
comprised this annual getting together of
members and their friends pronounced this
race the star turn ; the ladies went at their
fences like veterans. Warm and radiantly
bright was the day, and the acres around
Coombe Cottage were packed with cars. Lun-
cheon was taken in picnic fashion, and the
wife of Dr. A. E. Syme, master of the local
hunt club, dispensed an afternoon brew to
many visitors. Dame Nellie Melba, though
suffering from laryngitis, was tempted to
join the crowd in the sunshine. Wearing
an ensemble suit of deep bois-de-rose hue
and a felt hat to correspond, she was accom-
panied by her son, George Armstrong, and his
wife and grand-daugliter Pamela. The Kep-
pel Palmers, Major Henty, Wilma ’Clarke
and others joined the Dame’s circle. R.
M. Cuthbertson, who has lately been ming-
ling politics with sport—he is lion. sec. of
the Findon Harriers —was there with Mrs.
Cuthbertson. Marie Mackinnon and Hylda
McCardel, who are booked to leave shortly
for Europe, were among the riders. The
two intend to go a-hunting in Ireland.
Attending functions when you haven’t
been invited —what the other-siders call “gate-
crashing”—is not by any means unknown
in this country. There’s a commercial trav-
eller, of debonair aspect and inexhaustible
verbal resource, who never fails to attend
vice-regal hops in every capital he visits.
Recently he dropped in at a very select
Toorak affair. Not only did he dance with
the prettiest flappers, but he almost mono-
polised the hostess, who was young and fair.
I-lalf-way through an exasperated swain
asked the lady if she didn’t realise that the
fellow was a rank outsider and impostor.
“Of course I know he is an impostor,” she
murmured, “but what a charming one!”
Friends of Aylmer Buesst combined a wel-
come and farewell to this talented musician
at a party given by his parents at No. 9.
Mrs. Buesst wore a confection -of dull pink
georgette and black velvet beneath a coat
of black and gold brocade, and her grand-
daughter Isolde, daughter of the guest of
honor, was charming in a frock of cream
lace flounced in peacock mode. There was
music and dancing.
The unbounded faith of the -Victorian
Baby Health Centres Association in the
generosity of the public has been abun-
dantly rewarded.' Some time ago this body
leased from the Women’s Hospital a bit of
ground and ran up a building to serve as a
residential training school for teachers
attached to the Welfare Centres. A bridge
party at the Town Hall last week, held in
aid of the furnishing fund, roped in 40(1
women players. In the foyer leading to the
rosewood-panelled banquet hall were spread
tables of pot plants, flowers and sweets,
which were vended by an army of helpers
that included Mrs. Rolls and her daughter,
Airs. Furze-Morrish, Sheila Morell, Mrs. T.
A. Tabart and her two bonnie-looking girls,
Airs. George Langridge and Airs. Russell
Gabb. Mayoress Alorell was president of
the organising committee, of which Beryl
Ainslie and Marjorie Manger were hon.
secs. Airs. C. O. White, besides checking
returns, supervised with Mrs. J. J. Brenan
the afternoon-tea distribution.
Wattle Day was on Friday, when collec-
tion-boxes were rattled on the highways for
the benefit of the Children’3 Welfare Asso-
ciation. The stalls were laden with a wealth
of spring flowery, fruit blossoms, daffodils
and pussy-willow mingling with heaps of
wattle, violets ad' lib., and wallflowers and
forget-me-nots that were a joy to the eye.
The weather was warm and bright, and the
1500 collectors smiled in unison. Some keen
workers stowed away amid the flora collec-
tions of home-made provender—cakes, jams
and pickles—that found a ready sale.
Airs. Ilcbottaro’s beautiful Borzoi was
adjudged the best-looking doggie at the Aus-
tralian Ladies’ Kennel Club show. Judgment
was pronounced by a trio of artists, and
approved of by all visitors to the cat-and-
dog assemblage, profits of which went to the
Dame Nellie Melba Free Kindergarten. Airs.
Rebottaro’s pet can lay claim to something
like royal pedigree. His ancestors lived in
the late Queen Alexandra’s kennels.
Alembers of the various Hunt Clubs took
part in a dinner at Alenzies’ on Saturday
night as farewell to Alarie Alackinnon and
Hylda McCardel, who are to sail for Kurope.
A theatre party completed the evening.
The death of Mrs. Annie AlcCubbin, widow
of the late Fred McCubbin, the painter, cairn-
as a great shock, for very few people \verc
aware that she had gone into a hospital.
She was a gonial, energetic woman, ever ready
to give a helping hand to any good cause.
In her husband’s lifetime her home was open
to all struggling painters, just as it was the
rendezvous of those who had arrived in
Alelbourne’s artistic circles. During the
Great AVar she did splendid work with Airs.
Alfred Deakin in organising the Base Hos-
pital canteen here. She left two daughters
and four sons. Her son Louis is one of the
artists who are working for the AVar Aluseum,
making models of battles in which the A.I.F.
took part.
Harry Bailey, our good-looking and cap-
able Alinister for Lands, will lead to the
altar at the end of this month Lily Gibson,
a constituent. Fellow Cabinet-
eers will hand Bailey a wedding gift, and
AA'arrnambool citizens are getting ready a
souvenir. This will be Bailey’s second matri-
monial plunge. He has been a widower
for years. AVhen he was a mere stripling he
took part in the scrap with Oom Paul and
won a pair of pips.
From “A.G.M.” in London: —
Lord Bective, who is to be married in a few
weeks to Rupert Clarke’s widow, is a young man
of many attractions and parts. He is six feet three,
and closely resembles his handsome father, the
Marquis of Headfort, who had Edward VII. for a
godfather. Lord Headfort, with his lithe figure,
violet eyes and tawny hair and moustache, was the
beau ideal of an Ouidaesque guardsman when he mar-
ried the Gaiety actress Rosie Boote over a quarter
of a century ago. She has been a complete social
success, but at the time of the proposed marriage
great influence from very high places was brought
to bear on the young officer to divert his affections
elsewhere. Since then he has joined the R.C. Church,
into which his wife was born, and their children
have been brought up in the ancient faith. The pro-
spective ’groom is an electrician, who began at the
bottom and is now head of the Bective Electrical
Company, which has had many lucrative contract
from AVest End clubs and restaurants. He was one
of the shop assistants in the Coventry General
Electric Company’s pavilion at the Wembley Exhib'-
tion ; it was with this firm he served his apprentice-
ship. Lady Rupert is popular in Sussex, to which
county she and her husband moved after the sale
of their Hampshire place, and she is even more so
in London. She was one of those who gave dinner
parties before Mrs. Robert Lindsay’s ball at 15
Berkeley-square in honor of her daughter Rose
many’s engagement to William Ayshford Sanford.


ffm
m'n,
w/.
I
I
"////
m
4
■a
■ft
:*
1
m
ss
s
IS
m
i
m
s
■
&
T
M
E
H AR-D'T'S
SPA RPL L.IJVG


“THE AGE.”
Established 185 h
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“THE AGE” is a distinctive publication that
has taken root in the regard of the Victorian
people generally, and has flourished along the
highway of the State, keeping pace with the
development of the community for 74 years.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER TO
“THE AGE.”
It will keep you in close touch with the news
of the world by its full and accurate reports
on all subjects having a genuine news value.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free within
the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE”
Publishes Over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments Annually.
Rates on application to the principal advertis-
ing Service Agencies of the Commonwealth, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
THE MERCURY,
Tasmania’s Leading Daily
Newspaper.
ESTABLISHED 74 YEARS.
“The Illustrated
Tasmanian Mail”
(Published Wednesdays).
ESTABLISHED 51 YEARS.
No advertising campaign is
complete without including
Tasmania’s leading journals,
as both circulate extensively
over the whole of the State.
DAVIES BROS., LTD.,
Head Office: Macquarie St., Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE:
F. L. WILSON, 228 Pitt Street.
’Phone MA3161.
MELBOURNE OFFICE:
“Argus” Building, Elizabeth Street.
LONDON OFFICE:
A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
The Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South Australia,
and is Read by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation in
Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny of Net Sales
invited.
ALL THE NEWS AND ALL THE
ADVERTISEMENTS.
In 1927 average size of “THE ADVERTISER,”
26 pages of 8 columns (each 24]- inch deep).
Space occupied by advertisements averaged
16 § pages daily, or a Total of
988,712 INCHES IN THE YEAR.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agances of
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, price lAd.
Head Offices:
J. L. Bonython & Co.,
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. L. WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone MA 3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C..4.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
w
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ADDING MACHINES
The wonderful “Addac” weighs less than 71b.
Anyone can operate; just pull down the dial.
Splendid for calculating. Suits the pocket,
too. £l6/10/-, on terms. Discount for cash.
Written Guarantee. Capacity with farthings,
£lO,OOO. Send for booklet.
ADDAC SERVICE CO. (Dept. B.),
1 BOND ST., SYDNEY. ’Phone 82279.
QUEENSLAND’S BIG DAILY PAPER
THE BRISBANE COURIER
Easily the best and biggest Daily Paper
published in Queensland and carries more
ADVERTISING
than any other Queensland paper year in
and year out - - “Courier” advertising
INCREASES SALES
Rate Cards and specimen
copies from
Robt. D. Fisher,
Sydney Representative,
74 Pitt Street.
’Phone 85007.
Published by the
Brisbane Newspaper Co.,
“Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also publishers of the
“Queenslander” and
"Sports Referee.”
LAUREL HILLS.
MIXED FARMING LAND IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
26 MILES FROM GILGANDRA, AT TOORAWEENAH.
FOR AUCTION SALE.
ON WEDNESDAY, 19th SEPTEMBER, 1928,
At the ROYAL EXCHANGE, SYDNEY, at 11.30 a.m.
6600 ACRES, comprising—
-2000 acres, FREEHOLD.
3600 acres, C.P. (11/- owing to Crown).
26-INCH RAINFALL. Well improved. Permanent water. 1000 acres under growing crop. 4000 acres
good wheat land. Suitable for maize, lucerne, potatoes, balance sheep-to-the-acre country.
Connected to Gilgandra and Coonabarabran by good car road. The Mendooran-Tooraweenah Railway - Line
has been authorised, and will bring this property alongside Rail when completed.
TERMS. —10 per cent. Deposit, 40 per cent, on completion; no payment for 4 years. Balance at the
end of the fourth year, bearing interest at 6i per cent., payable half-yearly.
Fdr further particulars apply to
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED, SYDNEY, and all Branches.
e
eixb'Rcil
The Cigar of generous size and weight.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
6d.
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free.
II
SSS
CRAIG AND AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY
w
At Your Jewellers
there is a modem ELGIN in keeping with your
business and social status —a watch that can confer
only dignity upon you.
Slender, graceful, accurate, ELGIN is conceded to
be the world’s standard for watch integrity.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
THE WVTCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
in the Watch Cape
Alan Kippax
BATS
\ V
Specially designed for
use under Australian
conditions,
have good edges,
balance & straight
grains. All Bats
are fitted with
Rubber Grip.
Alan Kippax
Autograph,
55/-
Alan Kippax
Special
Club,
45/-
e
Alan Kippax
Renown, 37/6
(Freight Paid.)
WRITE FOR OUR
CRICKET
CATALOGUE.
Country orders
receive the per-
sonal attention of
Alan Kippax, who
is Director of
N.S.W. Sports Store, Ltd.,
11-13 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Telegrams to “Sports,” Sydney.
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
Wc[t 'Kegtste
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
in
THE REGISTER,
which is read by all classes,
Proprietors:
W. K. THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
ERIC N. BIRKS, N.S.W. Representative.
Telephone X.0'187.
G. N. BEDNALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.
THE
“QUEENSLANDER”
QUEENSLAND’S GREATEST
PICTURE WEEKLY.
Everyone interested in the Queen
State of the Commonwealth should
make a habit of seeing the “Queens-
lander” regularly.
Pictures and news items from every
corner of the State, as well as fea-
tures for every member of the family
are included.
Free specimen copy and subscription
form on application to
The Brisbane News-
paper Co., Ltd.,
Publishers of the
“BRISBANE COURIER,”
“SPORTS REFEREE,”
“Courier” Building, Queen Street,
Brisbane,
Or
SYDNEY REPRESENTATIVE:
ROBT. D. FISHER,
Colonial Mutual Chambers,
74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone 85007.
FOR “LATE NIGHT”
STOMACHS
A late night, with ever so little to drink,
is poison to many. Next morning the head
aches, the tongue is bad, and the stomach
is worse. What to do? Take Para-Pepsin!
Quick as a flash it calms the stomach;
freshens the mouth; sweetens the breath.
Appetite comes; irritability goes. Its
worth a trial! Once a stomach sufferer
tries it he never goes back to harmful anti-
acids. Para-Pepsin is sold in tablet form,
any chemist’s, at 2/- and 3/6. For a real
and quick return to stomach health you
must have Para-Pepsin.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


AN IDEAL WATCH FOR A LADY’S BAG
Ermeto
(PATENTED)
THE NEW WATCH
The sliding outer case, in heavy
silver or gold, makes it dust-
proof—gives sure protection
against glass breakage.
Women will welcome the
Ermeto —which to-day is the
prevailing fashion in London,
Paris and New York.
You can buy Ermeto with or with-
out chain—in beautiful calf stand
case supplied in gold, silver,
enamel, shagreen, lacquer, leather,
etc.
OPEN.
Stocked by
Leading Jewellers.
i n t
...
f S 5
M ».«> »«■*•■»
0 %
The watches, as illus-
trated, are approxi-
mately actual size.
Sole Wholesale Agents for Australasia:
J. LEIGH RUSSELL & CO.,
Cavendish House, Corner Flinders Lane and Russell Street,
Melbourne. ’Phone F 4996.
Amusements.
THE REGENT
Australia’s Most Luxurious Theatre.
(Direction Hoyt’s Theatres, Ltd.)
The Home of
the Superior Motion Picture
and the Effective Presentation.
MARY PICKFORD in .
VICTOR McLAGLEN in
“MY BEST GIRL’
“HANGMAN’S HOUSE’
ON SALE AT ALL BOOKSELLERS.
Five Shillings (ss. 3d. posted).
CHILDREN OF JOY
CHILDREN OF JOY
By ELSIE COLE.
"REGISTER” (Adelaide). (By 0.H.5.)
“ ‘Children of Joy’ is the happy title of a book of
poems by Elsie Cole. It is well printed and excel-
lently made up and bound in blue cloth. This is
not her first book; but the present book is the
work of a very different Elsie Cole—matured,
experienced and accomplished in her craft. She has
been acknowledged for some time as one of our chief
Australian Nature-poets, and has done much to carry
Australian literature along the road to international
recognition.
“It has been said that the ballad, ‘Home, Sweet
Home,’ is not great poetry, but that it went to the
heart of the people. That is just the reason why
it is great poetry. It is the common people to whom
the poet can address himself with the best chance of
being understood —the observant child, the thought-
ful woman, the experienced man. And these also
will make friends with the ‘Children of Joy,’ and
thank their author for putting into beautiful words
many thoughts they could not utter for themselves,
and adding to them other fancies more beautiful
still.”
“COURIER” (Brisbane) :
“Will be welcome by all who love good poetry.”
“HERALD” (Melbourne)
“A book to be recommended to all lovers of good
verse.”
Price: Five Shillings (ss. 3d. posted).
LOTHIAN PUBLISHING CO. PTY., LTD.
497 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE;
and at SYDNEY.
PUBLISHERS OF GOOD AUSTRALIAN BOOKS,
BACKACHE, NEURITIS,
RHEUMATISM
What a London Doctor Says:
Dr. Harrison, the London medico, says
that sufferers from uric acid troubles, back-
ache, rheumatism, joint pains and urinary
disorders would do well to leave expensive
“patent” remedies alone. The doctor recom-
mends, instead, a combination of about
eight of the most valuable agents known
for the treatment of uric acid, kidney,
bladder and urinary complaints. This com-
bination is known to every chemist as
Harrison’s Pills; it is widely recommended
as a safe, prompt and effective remedy. The
cost is surprisingly small, and those who try
Harrison’s Pills are always astonished how
quickly relief comes; how soon backaches,
joint pains, headaches, dizziness, night
worries, etc., become things of the past. For
“middle-age” symptoms generally chemists
say there is nothing to equal Harrison’s
Pills—an honest, inexpensive combination
of medicinal agents of generally accepted
value.
Amusements.
I7MPIRE THEATRE,
Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Twice Daily, 2.15 and 8.
MONSTER DOUBLE BILL,
The Fox Motion Picture,
MOTHER MACHREE.
And the Tabloid Musical Comedy,
MODELS.
Prices 1/6 to 4/6.
Reserves: MAIOOO, and all leading booking offices.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: GRAND OPERA.
ROYAL: THE SILENT HOUSE.
CRITERION: OTHER MEN’S WIVES
PALACE:
THE LUCK OF THE NAVY.
(Commencing next Saturday).
WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-
WATTS in Plays of SHAKSPEARE.
SUBURBAN TOUR:
Mosman Town Hall, Aug. 22 to 25.
Sydney Rep.: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229, Sydney.
’Phone: MA1277.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S : HIT THE DECK.
THEATRE ROYAL; THE PATSY.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE.
THE HIGH ROAD.
ATHENAEUM THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
E. J. CARROLL presents
By arrangement with Richard White and Eric Edgley,
WHITE COLLARS.
Three acts of delicious comedy—with a laugh
in every line.
JJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
RUDOLPH VALENTINO in
THE SHIEK.
ALSO
ACROSS TO SINGAPORE.
With RAMON NOVARRO.
jtyjAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY,
Master Pictures Present
The Warner Bros.’ Drama,
THE SILVER SLAVE,
featuring
IRENE RICH.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The bachelors had a Dutch setting for
their shivoo, the South Brisbane Town Hall
being riotous with windmills, fishing smacks
and tulips. Red and gold streamers radiated
from the ceiling, and golden tulips shaded
the larger lights. The v.-r. lounge was car-
peted with Dutch rugs and filled with baskets
of tulips and fern. Gold and white was the
color scheme of the supper-room, with orange
shades on the lights. Five of the bachelors
acted as hosts. Sir John and Lady Goodwin
had Miss Hine-Haycock, Colonel and Mrs.
Campbell and Major Wolff with them. Lady
Goodwin was in burgundy lace on satin;
Miss Hine-Haycock wore Nile green and
silver, with a border of grey fOx; and Mrs.
Campbell chose phantom red mariette. There
was a big roll up of dancers.
The Moreton Club ball, also in South
Brisbane Town Hall, was another smart
affair. Bronze and pale yellow streamers
and chrysanthemums decorated, and bronze
votive gates, in the window niches, were
hung with gold laburnum. Laburnum also
dropped gold on the platform, where lotus
floated in a lily-pool with purple iris at the
edges. A lounge, overlooking the river, was
on the southern verandah. Mrs. Ross Munro,
the club’s president, Mrs. R. K. Tully, Mrs.
A. J. Thynne, Mrs. Alan Jeffray and Mrs.
L. C. Wilson received the guests. The
Governor-General was with Sir John and
Lady Goodwin. Toowoomba violets and
daffodils were handed to Lady Goodwin, who
wore black georgette and silver. Miss Hine-
Haycock was in. peacock green, and Mrs.
Campbell in black taffetas. Mrs. Ross
Munro’s blatk Chantilly was made over satin,
and had touches of gold headings. Mrs.
Munro presented seven dehs.—Betty Douglas,
Grace White, Ann Blundell, Annette Marks.
Jocelyn Hart, Josie Power and Muriel Just
The Priministcrial Bruces were at the party,
Austin-Murcott here pictures Merlena
Llewelis, a harpist and ’cellist Who -has
hung out her sign lately in Melbourne as
teacher and soloist. She is a Bananalander
hailing from
Ipswich, where
she is now
p r o fessionally
known as Mer-
lena Humph-
re y s. She
started out as
a pianist, and
made good
headway i n
that direction
as a Brisbane
pupil of Hilda
Roberts, who
is now teach-
ing here. Then
she went to
England and
Belgium, stud-
ied the ’cello
under Adel-
aide Leon, and
added the harp
to her arm-
ory. Harpists of outstanding talent are
rare birds in these days, notwithstanding
that the instrument figures in many a grand-
opera score, and Miss Llewelis had little
difficulty in securing a place in the orchestra
of the Scala Theatre for a season of opera.
After five years abroad she has returned to
Australia, and delighted a Melbourne audi-
ence at a recital in the Assembly Hall last
month.
The final race meeting of carnival week
brought out some summer frocking. Lady
Goodwin wore rose beige, with a rose-pink
hat; Miss Hine-llaycock was in marled satin
with a brown capeline ; Mrs. W. J. Hooper
was in black; Mrs. Cadell Garrick chose
saxe blue; Muriel Starr had a reseda green
trimmed with grey astraclian, and green hat:
and Mrs. Geoffrey Barton wore almond green
and black, with a black hat.
NORTHERN TERRITORY.
Darwin.
The Victoria League’s fancy-dress ball
was a great success. There was a liberal
donation of prizes, and some very effective
and original costumes were sported. The
out-back hostels and homes should benefit
considerably.
The committee of the Victoria League
arranged a surprise party to welcome home
the secretary, Mrs. T. Worgan, after her
four months’ stay in hospital. The surprise
was a complete one, and Mrs. Worgan was
almost overwhelmed by the demonstration.
Bridge and tea helped to keep the ball
rolling.
A most successful dance was given to the
officers of the War Kristhna on her return to
Darwin with oil for the second tank. A very
jolly evening was spent at the Soldiers’
Hall, with ample refreshments, and sufficient
partners for every dancer, The vessel is
expected to return in about three months’
time with another cargo for No. 3 tank.
westralia.
Perth.
For the Engineers’ Ball the Naval and
Military Club put on frisky attire of
greenery and balloons. The army, the navy,
and the air force gladdened the scene with
their war paint of scarlet, blue and grey
coats, gold braid, bunches of medals and
high boots. General Hobbs was there with
his wife and two daughters. Colonels Lamb
and Wieek, Majors Rowell, Boase and Kelly
and Captain Barrett brought their wives.
Among others in the throng were Captain
Davidson-Houston, Lieut. Watchorn, the
Norman Brearleys and the . Charlie Hennings.
A quiet city spread under the blue South-
ern Cross that zoomed up from the south
two hours before scheduled time. Many
enthusiasts who had promised themselves a
drive to the Maylands Aerodrome were still
tucked up in bed. Thus few cheers were
raised for the fliers, who carried their own
baggage across the boggy ground to meet
officials hastily buttoning themselves into
their clothes. However, the aviators were
spared the worry of souvenir-hunting fana-
tics. Many receptions and shivoos were
squeezed into two days. Kingsford Smith
has been to Carnarvon in a borrowed Moth
to renew friendships in the North-West,
where he formerly flew a mail ’plane in the
service of Airways, Ltd.
Australia has been chosen as the seat of
the third Empire Forestry Conference, and
this is Senator Walter Ivingsmill, the M.F.
chosen to re-
present the
Common-
vvealth. Sixty-
delegates from
all over the
Dominions, in-
cluding such
places as Cy-
prus and the
F.M.S., ar e
now in this
city, and many
of them are
making their
first acquaint-
ance with the
A n S t r a lian
bush. For 30
yeQrs Senator
Ivingsmill has
been engaged
in Westralian
an d Federal
politics, an d
lie is chairman of the Public Accounts Com-
mittee of the Commonwealth Parliament.
His two hobbies are forestry and yachting.
He is a South Australian by birth, and an
.old boy of St. Peter’s College. Bardwell
Clarke made the portrait.
The Young Australia League, whose inde-
fatigable founder and honorary director, J.
,T. Simons, has his headquarters in this
city, is organising the third of its overseas
tours for boys. 'The first, in 1911, took
40 boys abroad for nine months of sight-
seeing. The second, in 1925, gave 140 lads
a look at Europe. -The latest pilgrimage,
which is planned for 100 youths of from
14 to 17, but may be extended to include
150, will leave Sydney by the Makura on
December 27 for San Francisco, the itin-
erary including most of the important cities
of the United States and Canada. The cost
of the trip will be £195 10s. for each boy,
and parents can pay by instalments —in ad-
vance, of course.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Lacrosse Association’s dance at the
Palais was an item of inter-’Varsity sports
week, with guests mostly of the younger or
youngish set. It was “plain or fancy” and
most of the self-conscious males took advant-
age of the option to don solemn black.
The impetus given by Lady Bridges to
Girl Guiding is continued by her no less
enthusiastic successor, and the movement
booms. There is to be a corps at Whyalla
as a corollary to the v.-r. visit there, and
funds raised by Guides at Brighton and
thereabouts will provide earphones for three
wards in connection with the Adelaide
Hospital wireless appeal.
There has been a tea at Urrbrae for Cher-
kassky, with Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson as hos-
tess and a sprinkling of musical Adelaide as
guests. The Uni., by the way, has begun
planting in the part of the grounds that
was set apart as a public reserve under the
Waite bequest.
Taking a leaf from Sydney’s book, the
Smith Family of Joygivers has entered into
service here—its immediate responsibility
is the Children’s Hospital. Mrs. Villeneuve
Smith heads the committee, with Mrs.
Andrew Smith, Keith Smith’s mother, as
one of the vice-presidents; and an enthusi-
astic Smith has suggested already that per-
haps funds for a new wing might be raised.
A naval and military ball under the wing
of a committpe headed by Lieut.-Col. Downes
was held at the Masonic Hall, where the
white walls made an admirable background
for bunting and uniforms.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The Art Society’s Ball at the City Hall
repaid the committee and its organisers by
being a very special success. His Ex. was
there with Margaret, who wore a black lace
frock, others in the v.-r. party being the
society’s president, Jim Mitchell, and his
wife, vice-president Louisa Swan, N. E.
Somers, the 11. W. Strutts, Mr. and Mrs.
W. H. Cummins and the H. C. Ikins. The
hall was effectively and fantastically deco-
rated. The first prize for costumes fell to
Miss Devereaux, as a Chinese girl; president
Mitchell carrying off the men’s prize as Beau
Brummell. The Kindergarten set, all the
members of which wore checked rompers, also
received a reward. The C.J. and his lady,
the J. C. E. Knights, the Clives and many
others brought large parties.
The Launceston Grammar School Ball was
quite a brilliant affair. The big Albert Hall
was decorated with festoons of the school
colors, with flags and Chinese lanterns to
give a brighter note Above the stage the
"school badge, with the crest and motto,
showed out conspicuously. The stage was
gay with late roses in bowls and baskets,
red carpets and flags, and the supper-tables
were done with mauve and yellow; irises,
lavender and early spring blooms being the
chief flowers used. The youngsters paraded
and danced in the early part of the evening,
and at 9 p.m. the grown-ups took the floor.
Kate Richardson, as lion, sec., and a women’s
committee of 28 were in charge.
Margaret O’Grady and party were in the
throng on the opening evening at the Prince
of Wales Theatre, which, after having been
renovated and altered many times, has blos-
somed out into a gorgeous picture-house
with a highly decorative lounge. A first-class
orchestra helps patrons to digest the fare
provided on the .silver screen.


Stte SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER-HARVESTER
12ft. Cut.
Self
Propelled.
4-Cylinder
Power Unit
Incorporated.
m
m
4.
Zmmm:
,
jloVs V.’vV
m.
Mm
r-r\
rWJWKi
wm \
Cuts Its Own
Tracks.
No Need for
Binder.
No Crop
Wasted.
Will rescue the grain from badly-lodged and thistle-infested crops.
A fair day’s work = 40 acres in a ten-bag crop.
The cost in fuel = 8 to 1 0 a cres on 4 gallons of petrol.
Besides its efficiency in harvesting the standing crop, the Sunshine Auto Header-Harvester does splendid
work as a Stationary Thrasher at the stack.
Also the Engine is available for general belt work throughout the year.
Write for descriptive literature, price and particulars of extended terms.
H. V. McKAY PTY, LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
102-105 North Terrace, Adelaide.
Cor. Murray & King Streets, Perth.
H„ V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
GfeateiTHfekhlfe GifeaterUfear
a
m
g
l
I
\
IP
gip
a
VJ-V
o
r <r„ 4/ 0
*
V.
/
<4>
: V
'**// XT C
s'. <?> o
6
°x
<>
o
*
%
‘/O
c ßy" CAppointment
to H M THE KING
BOULTON & PAUL LTD.
Norwich, Eng.
HOME LIGHTING
AND POWER PLANT
SOLID British weight and worth are built into Electolite.
No light and flimsy parts that must be replaced after very
little service. No chattering, whirling, high-speed engine that
cannot last for long.
The generator of the Electolite plant is driven by a slow-speed,
heavily-built petrol engine. Its steady pulsing beat tells of
ample power to answer every demand. It supplies electricity
not only for lighting, but also for operating an electric iron,
vacuum cleaner, refrigerator, milking machine, separator,
churn and many other labor-saving devices. Year after year
it works, steadily, efficiently, without strain and fuss and
trouble. A child can be given full charge of it, and the cost
of running is often actually less than town electricity.
When you buy a lighting plant choose a thorough British job
—it costs little, if anything, more than flimsily-built lower-
grade plants. Choose Electolite—the plant the British Army
uses. We shall be pleased to send complete literature on
request. Post the coupon!
EASY TERMS ARRANGED.
EDMUNDS BROS. & CO.
187 a Flinders Lane, Melbourne, G.P.O. Box 683.
154 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. 3 Gilbert Place, Adelaide.
Box D 147 G.P.0., Perth. Box 1139 P G.P.0., Brisbane.
Resident Factory Representative; R. R. Foulser, 154 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


fORMAMIHT
The Germ-killing Throat tablets
Of all Chemists "“3/6 per bottle.
w
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Sold by weight
or in ilb. cartons
by all grocers and
storekeepers.
KRAFT <<j{»
cheese
Kraft Cheese is Made in Australia by Kraft Walker Cheese Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Riverside Avenue, Melbourne, Vic.
, T^'™*
mm
-if you stay afjb Giomm
Make your home here for
economy’s sake without the
slightest sacrifice of comfort. 300
modernly equipped rooms.
Faultless service.
Write for information booklet.
S'QIOSVENOR
c JdeUudes Finest Unlicensed fftotel
Opp. Railway Sfn. North Terrace. —Manager
The RICH MAN of
BRAZIER. STREET
by
Margaret Fane & Hilary Lofting
OLD Marty
glanced in
at the
open door of the
shop and greeted
Mrs. Laurie
hopefully.
“Good morning, Marty. You’re the man
I’d wish to see most. Mrs. Slater, at the
top-end, has just telephoned for some bits
of things in a hurry, and I’d be obliged if
you could take them up.”
Marty entered the shop. “Of course I
will,” he said, glancing at her pleasant smile.
“It’s a fine spring morning.”
“It is, and a pleasure to feel it in the air.
Half of cheese, one spaghetti, a small bottle
of olive oil” — : Mrs. Laurie chuckled and
looked up from the basket at Marty. “She’s
a careful woman, Mrs. Slater, for all she’s
so polite when she wants a favor. ‘A small
bottle, Mrs. Laurie,’ she says, repeating her-
self, as if she was afraid I’d be sending up
a gallon. A jar of marmalade.” She pushed
the basket across the counter to Marty. “It’s
the things she forgot when she sent her
weekly order to Blancy’s Cheap Groceries,”
she said, chuckling again. “It’s herself’d
drop dead if she caught herself dealing with
a local tradesman.”
Marty put his one arm through the basket
handle and paused, looking at Mrs. Laurie’s
smiling face.
“Well, it’s an honest penny,” she con-
tinued, “and I shouldn’t be slappin’ at the
woman behind her back. It’ll be a nice
walk for you, Marty, on a spring morning.”
“Yes, it will. And she’ll have her things
in fifteen minutes. I’ll waste no time, Mrs.
Laurie.”
A wholesome woman, old Marty told liirn-
self going up Brazier-street to
the top end—a wholesome, hand-
some woman. And she’d give
him a shilling when he took the
basket back, a shilling for get-
ting Mrs. Slater’s order to her
promptly.
Mr. Bulstrode, the butcher,
put his head out of his shop.
“Goin’ far, Marty?” he asked.
“No. Slaters’, Mr. Bulstrode,”
Marty told him.
“Look in on your way back, will you?
There’s a note wants goin’ to those Kav-
anaglis in Palmer-street, if you’ll take it.”
“Righto.”
Marty continued on his way. That would
be sixpence when he brought the answer
back from the Kav'anaghs. And it would be
easier to take Mr. Bulstrode’s sixpence than
her shilling.
Down in this part of the ’Loo you could
only feel that there was a bit of a garden
behind each place. It had changed a good
deal of late years, the ’Loo had; there was
a time when you’d see pepper-trees—aye, and
flame-trees —growing in the front yards; and
flower-beds and what-not, making the places
look snug and well cared for. Most of that
had gone now—the days when you could
see the gardens and a bit of a tree now
and then. But on a morning like this you
could still feel that somewhere about the
places there was something growing, if it
was only in a window-box. It was better
at the top end where these Slaters and
people like that lived, but likely enough that
would all be gone soon, what with these
flats and that, and there’d be nothing left
in the ’Loo except a few lonely old men who
couldn’t get out of it—living in a room like
himself, down at the bottom end of Brazier-
street, with no one to look after them or
care a button whether they went to a Home
or didn’t.
It was the Shortling lot that had done
it, of course. He often reminded himself of
the Shortling lot and the dirty trick they had
played him twelve years ago; it gave him the
feeling that he was somebody, or had been
somebody, though all that was left of him
now was a one-armed half-cripple. Per-
haps he wasn’t really a half-cripple, but his
back was that bad some days it was
near enough to say so. He had not got
any compensation for the accident, though
the doctor said he’d never be able to do
a day’s real work again without the risk
of trouble. One of the men from the office
had come sneaking round to the hospital
and said that the firm had agreed to pay
all expenses, give him a month’s pay, and a
little something for himself in the shape of a
£2O note. Like a fool he had taken it, glad
to get it; and when it was all over a lawyer
had told him that £lOOO was nearer what
he could have got. But he hadn’t a hope
of anything after he had taken the £2O.
Remembering that dirty trick and what it
had led to, his anger still stiffened him.
But not for long. In the ’Loo they called
him “Old Marty”; he wasn’t really old —
still a year or two short of 60 —but he felt
old and seemed old. And if you live in a
room at the cheap end of Brazier-street and
have to look after yourself as best you can,
getting your living by errands and oddments,
and most times feeling pretty scarey and
below yourself, you are old. He was glad
he was a bachelor, though, looking after him-
self ; it would be a fine thing to try to keep
a family on the shillings and sixpences and
the odd half-crowns lie could pick up!
And if you came to the Home, the Old
Men’s Home —well, he could keep clear of
that for a bit, even if his back got that bad
he couldn’t do his errands and oddments any
more. He’d got a nest-egg in the Savings
Bank —£58. What was left of Shortlings’
“Abruptly her comforting chuckle sounded above the doves’ voices, and she leaned
across the table, touching his arm. ‘Marty,’ she said softly, ‘don’t look so
miserable.’”
£2O started it, and he’d added to it, sixpence
by sixpence and shilling by shilling. He
could live for a year on that, if he was put
to it. And if he pegged out before the end
of the year he’d have beaten the Home. It’d
be a sort of a race between the Home and
that £5B. If be pegged out it wouldn’t
matter; but if anything happened to the nest-
egg....
Coming awmy from Mrs. Slater’s with his
empty basket he remembered again how many
things there were to frighten a man, and how
little the chances of anything to make life
—well, prettier and more of a comfort, as
you might say. You couldn’t take any com-
fort in doing, oddments about the ’Loo or
in dreaming every night that you’d been
taken in a hurry to the Old Men’s Home. It
only got you more and more scared.
And you couldn’t say you were any good
to anybody. If he’d got his compensation—
ah, now, that would have been a diitereni
story. He might have been some good then.
But lie couldn’t look at anybody now. VV hy,
half the neighborhood had given him six-
pences at one time or another! lie d earned
the money; but it never felt like dinkuin
earning. And what was it, walking to the
top end with a bit of a basket on your arm .
You couldn’t call that earning money.
There was Mrs. Laurie, now/ She was
some good, if only to look at her. And it
did anybody else good just to look at her,
even if you took a shilling or a two-shilling
piece from her hand while you did it. I hat
wasn’t really one. of the tilings to scare a
man ; it even had a sort of warmth of its
own, whether it made you ashamed of your-
self or not. He’d often wondered what sort
of a man Mr. Laurie had been ; it must have
been a great sorrow to him to die and leave
that handsome, comforting woman. She d
got over it by now—was always cheerful,
with a smile and a soft word for everybody.
It was hard to think there was such a thing
as a trouble in the world'when she laugheu
in her light-hearted way. It was funny, but
she reminded him of the gardens you. could
feel were somewhere about these bits ot
places but couldn’t see, now that the Loo
had changed so much. It wasn't always pos-
sible to see her, but he could feel that she
was there all the time.
And yet in another way she was a sort
of adventure as well as a comfort. These
lottery tickets, art unions, and suchlike that
she was always buying and talking about.
—old Marty shuddered to think of what she
must spend in a year on the tickets. And
all wasted money. But in a way that didn’t
matter with her. It was part of the way she
laughed at everything and was at the same
time real and solid.
Old Marty, what with Shortlings' and the
Old Men’s Home and the nest-egg, had got
too scared to think of a lottery ticket or
spend a ha’penny that he needn’t. When he
was on the shelf for good and no use even
for errands and messages, he was due to
run a race with Death and the Home, and
the nest-egg was all he had to run it with.
You never knew—he might last for years
when he was on the shelf, and he’d want
every shilling to help him die in freedom and
win the race. No lottery ticket could ever
get one of the shillings from Marty. It
wouldn’t be right.
Nevertheless, tlie passing days had some
potency of their own that disturbed Marty
in his backwater of scared obscurity. He
knew that he was a nothing who could never
be any good to anybody, that his one job was
to beat the Old Men’s Home. But spring
in the old ’Loo didn’t seem to think much
of this as a job. If you came to tlimk of
it, the ’Loo was pretty old and done in, and
had had its share of dirty tricks. Yet every
year at this season it had a sort of a laugh,
and began showing its bits of flowers over the
hroken fences, its sprays of wistaria on the
shabby walls —coming out from hiding, in
a way. . . ... ,
Mrs. Laurie came into it, too, with her
rich smile and the bit of lace at her neck
she’d wear every day—made in Ireland
donkey’s years ago, she said —and her gold
oval brooch in the middle of the lace. More
and more his spirit revolted at taking her
shillings; he’d be glad to do her carrying
for nothing, and proud of it. But he daren t
suggest it; she’d never speak to him again
if he did—it’d be the end of seeing her at
all. It had always been wrong, his taking
shillings from her; hut it was the only way
to get a look at her now and again.
Pausing at the door of her shop and glanc-
ing in, he saw that to-day there was a young
girl behind the counter. Cold fear touched
him.
“Mrs. Laurie—she’s not ill, is she?” he
asked the girl.
But Mrs. Laurie’s voice answered him from
the back room. “I’m in the best of health,
Marty, thank you, and I’m going on a spree.”
She came out into the shop, a glorious
vision. “Do ye like me?” she asked, chuck-
ling at him. “Mr. Vernier’s sister-in-law has
come down from Queensland to keep house
for him and look after his barrels of money,
and he’s taking the two of us on a day’s
jollification. We’re motoring to Katoomba,
lunching there, and going on to the Grand
Canyon or some such place—oh, and the
Lord knows what-all.”
“I hope you’ll have a good day,” lie said,
watching her animated face and thanking
Heaven she wasn’t ill.
“I’ll do my best. He’s a pleasant man with
no nonsense about him, money enough
to entertain us in style. It’ll be a change
for me, won’t it?” She laughed and vanished
again into the back room.
Venner —the conceited fellow who lived in
Riley-street and came into a pocketful of
money when his mother died! A sort of
desolation descended upon old Marty. And
he’d be entertaining her in style to-day, would
he? A bumptious, talkative man, but flash
and well-to-do! A sister-in-law to keep
house for him and a motor-car to take him
to Katoomba ! A rich man !
Revolt crept into Marty’s blood. Step by
step he argued with it; but it got under his
guard and forced its way in. It kept him
awake at night, filling his mind with foolish
thoughts, thoughts and wishes that were out-
rageous in their folly and danger. - For
twelve years he had been old Marty, the
odd-man of the ’Loo, picking up what he
could and living as best he could, with
his one job of beating the Home. It was
worse than foolish to think of himself as —
well, as “coming out,” like the ’Loo in these
pretty days.
But the pretty days went relentlessly on,
and Mrs. Laurie and the lace on her bosom,
and the sixpences and shillings. He was a
shadow, a one-armed old shadow hiding
at the bottom end of Brazier-street, and
he had a serious job of work to do, to see
that he died in freedom. But the days and
the flash Venner and Mrs. Laurie’s chuckling
went on. And in the end these latter things
made a desperate final effort, and won. In
a tragic tranquillity Marty faced it and
made up his mind. For one week he’d come
out like the ’Loo in spring, and then go in
again for ever.
His face inordinately calm and his eyes
bright and purposeful, he set out one morn-
ing, not past Mrs. Laurie’s shop, but over
the Domain for the city. They’d get a sur-
prise at the bank. But he’d show them that
others could entertain, too.
It’d be a week, anyhow. When it was over
he’d hump Matilda and go up country—find
a bark hut or some sort of a humpy some-
where in the bush, and probably die there
pretty soon. He wouldn’t have much to hold
him together. You often saw it in the paper:
“The body of an unknown man was found
in the bush some miles from wherever it
was. Death was apparently due to starvation
and exposure. The gruesome discovery was
made by some children on their way home
from school” —something like that. You often
saw it.
But the week would come first. At the
bank he drew forty of the fifty-eight pounds,
and in an hour or two was back in the ’Loo,
strolling pleasantly up Brazier-street towards
Mrs. Laurie’s shop. He was wearing a new
suit of the fashionable color, a new hat and
boots; and he carried a bunch of flowers.
(Continued on page 58.)


PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
X
GIVE YOUR BOY A
FAIR CHANCE.
For a small sum annually we pro-
vide him with a substantial banking
account when he starts on his career.
Full particulars from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
I
Dainty White China .
White China-Real White-is once again much in vogue, and
a breakfast or tea set of the famous “Shelley” Dainty White
China is a present that is sure to please, and which could
live at peace with any surroundings. It is not expensive,
and includes attractive odd things like cress dishes, covered
muffin dishes, fruit bowls, fruit saucers and honey pots.
Ask. to ste the latest Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Dainty White China,
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel Lucie Attwell and Hilda Cowbam,
Shelley Domestic Ware, and Shelley Jelly Moulds—all British. In case
of any difficulty in obtaining write to: — T. W. HEATH
e> CO., LTD., CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
CHINA
for the name Sheiletf on each piece of China
mm
BANRING
FACILITIES
Long Experience.
The Bank places the experience gained through its seventy
years participation in Australian banking business at the
disposal of its customers and connections. The close
contact that it has always maintained with Australian
trade and industry enables it to extend matured and
reliable judgment upon business enterprise.
Business Overseas.
A widespread foreign service is made available by the
Bank through its branches in Australia and London and
its agents in every town of commercial importance in the
world. Drafts are issued in Sterling or Foreign Money
payable wherever required; Bills are collected and
negotiated; Money is remitted by Mail or Cable and
Letters of Credit are issued for the use of Merchants
and Tourists.
Publications.
Detailed information regarding the Bank’s services is
given in its informative booklets, “Services and Facili-
ties” and “Are You Going Abroad?” Copies may be
obtained gratis at any branch. A review of Australian
business conditions is published monthly and is made
available upon request to all interested in the progress
of this country.
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Capital Paid up, £5,000,000. Reserve Fund, £3,000,000.
TOTAL ASSETS, £45,600,000
For Sale.
Municipality of Mudgee.
MACHINERY FOR SALE.
'"THE following Electricty Generating Plant,
in good running order, is offered for
sale by tender, having been supplanted by
a new and larger A.C. plant
Item (a) Thompson Compound High-pres-
sure Steam Engine, 150 h.p., 475
r.p.m. direct coupled to Clayton
and Joel D.C. Generator, 300 amps,
240 volts.
Item (b) Beiliss and Morcom Compound
High-pressure Steam Engine, 150
h.p., 250 r.p.m., direct coupled to
Rees Roturbo D.C. Generator, 312
amps, 240 volts.
Item (c) Babcock and Wilcox W.T. Boiler,
to drive both engines, complete
with superheater and all fittings.
Certificate —• June, 1027 —1501 b.
Steam Pressure.
Item (d) Surface Condenser for use with
above.
Item (e) Crossley Horizontal Single-cylinder
Gas Engine, 25 h.p., 1400 r.p.m.
Item (f) Rees Roturbo D.C. Generator, 40
amp., belt-driven by above.
Item (g) Nine-panel Marble Switchboard,
fitted with meters, fuses, switches,
etc.
Tenders are ihvited for the above in one
line, or for any item or items.
Highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
Machinery may be inspected at old Power
Station, Mudgee. during office hours.
Note. —The above plant was supplying
current on 30th April, 1928, on a 25 p.c.
overload.
Tenders to be in hands of undersigned not
later than 4 p.m., Ist October, 1928
HERBERT G. DEE,
Town Clerk.
Towd Hall, Mudgee,
10th August, 1928.
Legal Notice.
' I *0 HERBERT JOHN GODKIN formerly
of Acacia Street East Camberwell Vic.
toria and of Southern Cross W.A. now of
parts unknown. TAKE NOTICE that your
wife Lillian Godkin has instituted proceed-
ings against you for divorce on the ground
of a repeated act of adultery committed by
you. Unless you enter an appearance in
the Prothonotary’s office of the Supreme
Court of Victoria on or before the 29tli day
of September 1928 the case may proceed in
your absence and you may be ordered to pay
costs.
PAUL C. NTJNAN, 440 Chancery Lane,
Melbourne, Solicitor for the petitioner.
SYDNEY EUCHARISTIC CONGRESS
THE Accommodation during this period will be
unprocurable. Intending visitors should at once
make provision for this. We have arrangements with
many hotels and boarding-houses in and around
Sydney at tariffs to suit all pockets. These are Ailing
fast. For further information write to
ADVANCE ACCOMMODATIONS,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALASIAN ACCOMMODATION SPECIALISTS.
Missing Friends.
P)ILLON.— Would ANASTATIA (ANNE)
DILLON, daughter of Thomas Dillon
and Catherine Dillon (formerly Hynes),
born at West Maitland, N.S.W., Bth Febru-
ary, 1852, last heard of living at North
Sydney with a Mrs. Elizabeth Williamii,
wife of J. L. Williams, and believed to
have been in Melbourne in 1880, or any-
one having information regarding her where-
abouts or date of death, please communicate
with PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY
(LIMITED), 38-30 Hunter Street, Sydney.
YY/ILL any person claiming to be of the
vv next of kin of JOHN GEORGE JOHN-
STON, late of Launceston, in Tasmania,
street musician, who died at Launceston, on
3rd August, 1012, communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Hobart.
T° WILLIAM JOHN POWELL formerly of Hcales-
ville in the State of Victoria poultry farmer
TAKE NOTICE that your wife ELSIE ANN POWELL
has instituted proceedings against you for Divorce on
the ground of three years’ desertion Unless you enter
an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the
Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before the
fifteenth day of September 1928 the case may pro-
ceed in your absence and you may be ordered to
pay costs. E. A. SMART, 421 Bourke Street, Mel-
bourne, Solicitor for Petitioner.
Public Notice.
Easy Monday Proprietary, Limited.
IN LIQUIDATION.
ISJOTICE is hereby given that all Creditors
* of the above Company shall prove their
debts or claims oh or before the 29th day
of August, 1928, or be excluded from the
benefit of any distribution made before such
debts are proved.
H. It. SEEGEIt, L.1.C.A.,
Liquidator.
W Beyond anHM.VPortable
you, buy fiijjtuttirG /
Specialising in H.M.V Portables
£ll cash or terms arranged.
The TALKERI E§
477Q.V. Buildi n£s / Opposite Lowes
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals v ith every subject of
interest to women.
Copy]
“Glendale;’ marathon road,
DARLING POINT, SYDNEY, 30 th June, 1928.
Deai• Sir, —I find, your “SHIFTIT” to be an excellent cleanser which
can be applied most successfully, not only in the household, but also for
cleansing all sorts of fabrics. As an old manufacturer of chemicals, J
state “SHIFTIT” is built up on scientific lines, and I am recommending
it to my friends. — ( Signed) E. F. LICHTNER.
Awarded the Certificate of the British
Institute of Hygiene for Purity.
“SHIFTIT”
washes
Clothes, Silks,
etc.
Cleans Pots
and Pans,
Instantly
Removes All
Grease
and Stains
: - *
» Hia»t*
♦
♦
swiitp^
j
m m *
SHIFTIT
is
invaluable to
the
Motorist and
the
Housewife
for
All Cleaning
Purposes
CLEANS EVERYTHING!
THE NEWEST DISCOVERY.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL CHEMISTS, GROCERS, IRONMONGERS
STORES, AND WHOLESALE HOUSES.
99
can be obtained in
VICTORIA from FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND —TAYLORS & ELLIOTT, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, ADELAIDE.
WEST AUSTRALIA— BOANS, LTD., PERTH.
TASMANIA—A. L. MILLER, MAUND PTY., LTD., HOBART.
or
SHIFTIT (Australasia) Co., Chatham House
Phone, B 4182 105 Pitt Street, Sydney. Phone, Pet. 1868
“SHIFTIT


MADE UP TO A STANDARD
NOT DOWN TO A PRICE
02
n
MOTOR
Ripolin is de-
sirable from the
Car Owner’s
standpoint, be-
cause of its
wonderful
durability. Can
be either dry-
cleaned or
washed and dried with a chamois, and will
look bright and attractive without the necessity
of polishing.
r'ipolin preference knows no boundaries.
Ripolin has been used for over forty years in two Hemispheres. Every
European country, South America, Africa, Australia, from Siberia to India,
and all of North America as well have approved and accepted Ripolin.
EASY TO APPLY. ANYONE CAN USE. Will not spot, fade or rub off.
DOES NOT REQUIRE POLISHING
Ripolin is also the best paint for all interior and exterior house decoration.
A special quality is procurable for painting baths.
APPLY WITH A BRUSH OR THROUGH A SPRAY GUN.
White and 70 artistic shades procurable from all stores in sealed tins.
WRITE FOR COLOR CARD AND FULL PARTICULARS TO—
LA I\/I \ (Factory Rep.), 4 Underwood Street
« (off 35 Pitt Street), SYDNEY.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
BRISBANE: S. J. Squires & Co. MELBOURNE: Standard Agencies Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE: Clarkson, Ltd. LAUNCESTON: French Bros.
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital £lOO,OOO
Issued Capital 49,161
Paid-up Capital 30,234
Investments in Canberra Are
Directors:
John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
W. G. Woodger, Esq.; S. J. Goulston, Esq.
R. G. H. Joseland, Esq.
Free of State Income Tax.
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
L. G. FUSSELL, General Manager.
i —those Embarrassing
e
Squeaks
and
Squawks
from your car!
—and, too, you’ll avoid
80% of all repair bills
NOW an advanced type lubri-
cating system has made proper
lubrication and squeakless, squawk-
less driving easy. The Alemite High
Pressure System for lubricating hard-
working, dust-exposed chassis bear-
ings. Used on over 15,000,000 cars
today.
So easy that there is no longer any
reason for neglecting lubrication. So
positive that the lubrication is al-
ways effective in preventing friction
and wear.
What Alemite Is—How It Works
The Alemite system is built for high
pressure lubrication. To force clean,
fresh lubricant entirely through the
bearings—to force old, worn-out lu-
bricant entirely out of the bearings.
This efficient high pressure lubrica-
tion works wonders with every car.
Renews the riding qualities and com-
fort of middle-aged cars so they seem
like new. And it eliminates the cause
of 80 % of motor car repairs—if you
will but tend to it every 500 miles or so.
Your Car Can Be Alemite -
equipped at Small Cost
If your car is already equipped with
this money-saving system, use it
every 500 miles and you’ll cut the
cost of operating your car anywhere
from a half-penny to a penny half-
penny a mile.
If your car is not so equipped, the
installation of Alemite fittings can
be made quickly and at a surprising-
ly low cost. A fitting costing only a
few pennies will save a bearing
worth many pounds. The Bassick
Manufacturing Company, Division
of Stewart-Warner, Chicago, U. S. A.
The A lemite Fittings
Modern dust-proof Alemite and
Alemite-Zerk fittings for chassis
bearings. Lubricant Is shot
through them under high pres-
sure to the heart of the bearing.
Old grease and grit thus forced
out —clean new lubricant sur-
rounds the entire bearing.
Alemite Compressors
To conform to fittings, com-
pressors come in two styles—-
Alemite and Alemite-Zerk. The
Alemite Compressor forces lu-
bricant through bearing by
twisting handle—the Alemite-
Zerk “gun” by a simple thrust-
ing motion.
T he Alemite-ed Bearing
Cut-open view of lubricated
bearing. Note how lubricant
under pressure forces way en-
tirely through bearing.
No. 833.
ALEMITE
High Pressure Lubrication
©T.B.M. Go. Be*. U. S. Fat. Off.
His expression was amiable, with a touch of
reserve. He put the bunch of flowers on the
counter before the astounded Mrs. Laurie.
“Well, well, Marty,” she said, “and isn’t
it the fine-looking man you’ve made your-
self. What’s happened?”
“I had a bit of good luck,” he told her,
looking at the flowers, “and I brought you
these, if you’ll take them.”
“It’s like your kind and thoughtful self,
and thank you.” She gathered up the flowers
and looked at him over their nodding heads.
“But tell me of the luck, Marty.”
“It —it was a lottery ticket.”
“A lottery ticket?” She put down the
flowers and the light of adventure danced into
her eyes. “Tell me, Marty.”
“I won the fourth prize in the Flowing
Gold.”
“Well!” She stared at him in surprise and
admiration.
“Yes,” he continued, “it’s a good lift-up.
Matter of 500-odd.”
Mrs. Laurie continued to stare silently
at him, so great was her astonishment.
He looked up. “I’ll be goin’ over to
Queensland in a week’s time, to go in part-
nership with my cousin, now 1 can buy
myself in. It’ll be a help to him”
“But how did you get the money so
soon?” she asked. ,“It was only drawn last
week.”
“I have a friend on the spot that fixed
rue up,” he told her calmly. “I got the cash
this morning.” (“The school children re-
ported. the matter to the police.” seemed to
be whispering in his brain.) “I was won-
dering if you could get that young girl to
mind the shop—l’d see she didn’t lose by
it-—and take a bite of lunch with me in
Sydney. A little entertainment of old friends
before I go.”
“Indeed I will,” she said, gathering up
the flowers again. “I’ll have Annie behind
this counter in two shakes.” She chuckled,
the light dancing up and down in her eyes.
“And aren’t you the secret one, Marty, with
all your talk of being scared of art unions
and lotteries? And you with a winning
ticket in your pocket all the time!”
Old Marty smiled in deprecation. “It was
a fancy I had, a fancy to try my luck for
a final shot.”
It was a good week. Old Marty bloomed
in a magic ’Loo, a ’Loo that he had never
known.. Children smiled at him as he put
lollies into their hands. The neighbors looked
for his coming and went out of their way to
meet and greet him, to shake his hand and
wish him well of the money. He lent Ivav-
anagh a pound, and the six little Kavanaghs
had a square meal for once. Mr. Bulstrode
came specially out of his shop to clap Marty
on the back and congratulate him. A spirit
of admiration and esteem was in the air,
and Marty sat in the middle of it in glory.
He greeted all the passers-by with a firm
smile. He forgot the scared feeling that used
to sweep down on him. No pain touched his
back. And not once did he remember that
he was old and desolate.
Except when he was with her. But not
often then. She had a wholesome way of
keeping the bad things out of it. They’d
go on their little jaunts into Sydney or
over to Manly, and he’d enjoy every moment.
Except perhaps the last moment, when she
had vanished into her side-door and he was
left alone on the Brazier-street pavement.
(“The body was in an advanced stage of
decomposition—he seemed to be hearing that
all the time he was walking down to the
bottom end of the street.)
He spent money like a king—a careful
king who saw that nobody was forgotten.
He could leave a memory behind him if he
couldn’t do anything else. Mr. Bulstrode
christened him “the rich man of Brazier
street,” but, as he pointed out with his depre-
catory smile, he could hardly be called that.
Of course, the prize was a tidy sum of
money; that couldn’t be denied. But “rich”
was stretching it a bit, he said. Yet for
that week, and to all his friends, he was
rich. And that week was all that mattered
now.
The glory came to its end, its last day.
In the tea-house in the Botanic Gardens old
Marty faced the running-out of the sands,
Mary Laurie sitting across the table from
him with a shadowy tree behind her head.
Near by, the doves’ voices broke softly into
the silence. Soon Mary Laurie wtould be a
ghost, the week a memory.
It was like sitting opposite her at the
end of the world. Everything had gone
now. The old scared feeling swooped down
on him with a rush, and his heart failed
him. He was walking out into nothing at
all, leaving her behind him in the old
’L00....
After all, wouldn’t there be a sort of a
chance for him? She was a kindly woman
and he was sure she had liked being out with
him on their little parties in the glorious
week. He couldn't go out
“Well, Marty,” her voice broke in, “this
time to-morrow you’ll be on your way.”
“Yes.”
She turned to him and her eyes watched
him. “I suppose you’ll be glad to be off.”
No, it couldn’t be done, old Marty’s quak-
ing spirit told him. He must chance it.
Even if she turned him down, there’d be
the old ’Loo about him and the people he
knew, his room, the talks with her while
she packed the basket. Better the old -scared
life than a hut in the bush, waiting to peg
out.
He shifted in his chair, and his eye caught
the gleam of his polished boot, the shapely
boot it was a pleasure to put on. He
remembered the mended, shapeless, never-
polished dumpers he used to put on every
morning....
His quaking spirit stiffened and his head
lifted. No. She had known him as some-
body this week. Whatever came of it, never
again should she know him as a scared
shadow shuffling about the ’Loo in patched
and mended boots, picking up a living as best
he could.
“Yes,” he said firmly. ‘There’ll be great
chances for me up there with my bit of
money.”
She smiled suddenly, a smile full of plea-
sure.
“I suppose so,” she said.
The pleasure in her face —was she glad he
was going?
Great chances! (“The police acted with
commendable promptitude and the body was
immediately removed to the mortuary cham-
ber of the hospital,” he fancied he read.)
Abruptly her comforting chuckle sounded
above the doves’ voices, and she leaned
across the table, touching his arm. “Marty,”
she said softly, “don’t look so miserable.”
He stared at her, and she chuckled again.
“Why did you be telling me all those lies
about your lottery ticket and your cousin in
Queensland?”
Speechless, he continued to stare at her.
“Didn’t my own brother-in-law’s eldest girl
win the fourth prize in the Flowing Gold. I
have the letter on the desk in my back
room.”
Marty withdrew his eyes from her face
and stared in deep misery at the bridge under
the peeping willows.
“Marty, you’ve been spending your nest-
egg, that was to keep you safe. Isn’t it
so?”
“Yes.”
“All of it?”
“There’s a bit left.”
“Ah.” For a long moment she was silent.
“Will you give me the word now, my dear,”
she said gently—“the word that’s been in
your mouth for me this long time and you
wanting the courage to say it?”
Old Marty looked up, bewildered.
“Marty, I’m waiting.”
He leaned over the table and said the
word so swiftly and faintly that she chuckled
and blushed.
“Well, well,” she said in her wholesome,
comforting voice, “and now I have a secret
for you, Marty dear—a true one this time.
7 won a prize and a good one —even bigger
than the one you didn’t win.”
“You did? And you said nothing about
it?”
“Why would I?” she asked him placidly.
“It would only have been another barrier
between us.” She glanced at him and blushed
again. “And there was enough as it was.”
she added.
Waylaid.
Yesterday, as I was straying
Townward, down a busy street,
From a house with open windows
Merry music, music sweet,
Through the noisy noonday rippling
Spelled and held me for a while,
Telling me of joy and laughter,
Feet that dance and eyes that smile.
Though ’twas but a fiddler fiddling
Just to please himself I heard,
Playing now a jolly hornpipe,
Playing now a jig that stirred
All the dancing blood within me,
Rapt and motionless was I,
Standing like a man gone crazy
While the wise folk hurried by.
Town was calling, toil was calling,
But that fiddler, fiddling sweet,
With 'the magic of his music
Putting fetters on my feet,
Held me stock-still, held me captive,
Held me spellbound, foot and will,
Eyes ashine and soul enchanted,
Ears enrapt and blood athrill.
As I lingered on the pavement
List’ning to that fiddler gay,
From the humdrum scenes around me
Worlds and worlds I seemed to stray—
Stray with laughter, stray with dancing,
While aloft and everywhere
Mirth and music, song and gladness,
Rose and rippled on the air.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Hearth Music.
This is the song of the scarlet flame —
From a scrap of an old gum-tree it came:
Sunshine and rainshine and swift mountain
breeze
Build the tall trees.
Thousands of days like clear beads slip along
To hill-thrushes’ song.
Thousands of nights into moonflowers of
pearl
Blossom, then furl.
Pride of broad forests, the mighty, the fair,
Tides iof pure air,
Pass away now in a flamelct that glows
Red as a rose!
This is the song of the flame of gold,
Swift as a spear thrust, straight and hold:
Down in earth’s treasure-house, prisoned
heart-deep,
Still was my sleep;
Dreaming inert in my fast muffled strength,
Till at long length
All of the old Mother’s secrets of fire,
Fettered desire,
All the stored power of her aeons of night
Leapt up in light—
So I flame high from the coal’s feint of death
In one gold breath!
And this is the hlue flame's chanty gag/,
Where the bone-white driftwood burns away:
Dancing and mirth of a little brown boat
Bravely afloat.
Patter and plash of the sun-dappled waves
Into low caves
Full of weird echoes as hollow as bells,
And salt-water smells.
Souls of old sailor men lost long ago,
Where strange reefs grow,
Wander in restless blue flame breaking free—
Blue as the sea!
These are the voices that sing each night
Wild, wild songs to my calm lamp-light.
VICTORIA,
ELSIE COLE.


Poor Relations.
ANOTHER OF RANDOLPH BEDFORD'S GAY STORIES.
THE most lovable of insurance men
pressed a drink and two cigars on
Whaley, taking no denial for the triple
hospitality.
“I know, my boy,” he said as they stood
in the bar-room of the Caravanserai, “it
ithn’t Authtralian, but I’m the oldetlit Auth-
tralian in the bar, and when it comth to thi-
garth I’m a chartered libertine. Take an-
other thigar.”
“No, thanks,” said Whaley. “These mil-
lionaire cigars make me feel so prosperous
that I’ll forget I have creditors if I smoke
two within the hour. But I would like to
know something about your job. A
man in your game was telling me the other
day that you’re the most competent insurance
adjuster in Australia.”
“Do they tliay that? Well, I like it.
Everybody lovtli praitli. I know they thay
that becauth I never fought a jutht claim,
and I never let a crooked demand get by.
You thee, I don’t look tho much at the fire
ath at the owner of it. In thethe dayth of
better buildingth and better fire fighting I
look at the moral ritlik more than the phy-
thical. When there are big drapery tlitockth,
ath there are now, imported at high pritheth
and when overbuying and a fall in ectliange
and retail pritheth come, ath they’re doing
now—look for fircth. And if, on the top of
that, the bankth are reduthing overdrafth,
look for more fircth.”
“I see—incendiarism.”
“If you could prove it. Now that man
coming in remindth me that although I think
the moral rithkth with hith polithieth ith
ath dangerouth ath Bramble Cay to collierth
for China, I could prove nothing. All I
could do wath to cut hith claim ath far ath
I dared. I want you to meet that man—lie’th
Mullholland. Wait till he finitlieth with hith
friend. But for the fire he’d have been talk-
ing to the offithial athignee. ... There wath
tho much talk and thuthpithion over it that
the relief from the thuthpithion ath well ath
the payment hath made him launch out.
He’th giving a dinner -.to-night in honor of
the thettlement, and he had the cheek to
invite me to go.”
“Not going?”
“Not for all the fireth in the tliity. But
look here; you go. He’th a queer fith and
worth thtudying.”
“But I don’t know him. Why should he
ask me?”
“You’ll know him when I introduthe you,
won’t you? And he’ll athk you quick enough.
He lovtli newthpaper men —-until they don’t
give him a paragraph, and then he hateth
’em.”
Mullholland came to them smiling to show
all his teeth.
“Ah!” said he, as warmly as if the in-
surance man had not been fighting the claim
ever since the fire. “I’m so glad to see you.
Of course, you’re joining our little festive
gathering to-night.”
“I’m thojry. The doctortli thay I muthn’t
be out after dark. My athma, you know.
But Mithter Whaley ith my friend; and he’th
a newthpaper man, and I think he would be
interethted.”
“Glad to ask Mr. Whaley, then,” said Mull-
holland. “Will you join us at seven o’clock,
Mr. Whaley? The big supper-room up-
stairs.”
* * * *
Whaley found about eighty diners ready
and waiting, including Mullholland receiving
the guests and introducing them to Lascelles,
the long, thin-necked, round-shouldered man
who stood at the entrance with his principal
and who was introduced with much im-
portance as the “manager of the Fancy.”
Whaley passed on from his introduction to
the butler’s table, and asked for vermouth.
“And I’ll have one, too,” said something
below his head level, and looking down
Whaley saw a little thin man with a faded
face and watery-blue eyes like a kitten’s.
He was the only man not in a dinner-suit,
but he was so insignificant that even that
fact could not make him conspicuous.
The tone he used to order his vermouth
was foreign to the appearance of the little
man, and Whaley, regarding him more
closely, was not surprised to note that a
gesture of recklessness accompanied the order
and that tone and gesture were due to earlier
orders and their fulfilment.
“It’s all right,” said the little man, “I
can have another. I’m Harry Ruddle, the
boss’s cousint.”
He drank the vermouth as if he didn’t like
it. and moved off to another man so like him-
self that they were patently brothers—the
poor relations at the rich man’s feast;.
Whaley began to think better of Mullholland,
who had not been spoiled by financial suc-
cess sufficiently to make him forget the >v>n-
nections who had stayed where birth had
put them.
Then Mullholland made a move to the top
of the table, and Mr. Lascelles, the manager
of the Fancy, took the chair, and the great
man sat on a chair to the right of him.
Whaley found himself seated next Mr. Henry
Ruddle, and his presumed brother as vis-
a-vis. And so to dinner, and a very good
dinner; sherry and hock and claret and
champagne.
Mr. Harry Ruddle enjoyed it all. and knew
no due season; alternating his drinks and
buzzing from bottle to bottle like a bee edu-
cated by a Man of Belial. His tongue was
soon loosened, and he gave a very excellent
imitation of a conspirator, without cloak or
mask; but so far his revelations were limited
to nods and winks and improper and danger-
ous use of a fork to indicate Mullholland as
the object of his increasing contempt. His
brother —the gloomier little man—was mainly
engaged in providing argument favorable
to prohibition. His liquor did him no good:
?.p he drank slowly and silently his gloom
increased. He did not show any signs of life
even when the chairman, Mr. Lascelles,
manager of The Fancy, rapped on the table
and asked the company to charge its glasses.
“Rear ear!” said the company, and
obeyed. Lascelles rose, and looked down
affectionately at Mullholland.
“In proposing the toast of the health of
our respected chief,” said the manager of
the Fancy. “I need hardly say that he is
endeared to us all.”
“Rear ear!’’
“His kindness and generosity to us during
our times of prosperity have in no way
altered during his anxiety over the late dis-
astrous fi-ah.”
“ ’Fraid to quarrel with anybody since er
fire,” hissed Mr. Ruddle to Whaley’s left
shoulder.
“Surrounding the festal board to-night are
the men who have grown up with the busi-
ness from its inception right up to the time
of the late disastrous fi-ah. We see also some
of our chief’s relatives here —may be in lower
walks of life than we, but still most licarti-
lay welcome; most hearti-lay.”
“Rear ear.”
“He didn’ want us to come,” hissed Mr.
Ruddle again, “but he had to arsk us at the
point-a bay’net.”
“We are glad to know that our chief,
while we have been opening up the new
season’s goods in our temporary premises,
has signed the contract for a new and greater
and up-to-date emporium on the old site of
our most glorious victories.”
“Rear ear!”
“I predict in those new premises! even
more splendid triumphs than Mullholland’s
stores have enjoyed in the past. I will leave our
chief to tell you about the new building, and
content myself with saying that he will in
the future have only loyal co-operation, as
lie has had our loyal service in the—in the—
HAD IT BOTH WAYS.
“Well, old man, did you marry
that girl of yours, or do you
still darn your own socks?”
“Yes.”
er, past—prior to the date of the late most
disastrous fi-ah.”
“Rear ear!”
“We all know the slanders suggested by
unsuccessful rivals in the trade; the mean
attempts to escape payment of claims by in-
surance companies which for years had re-
ceived premiums; even suggestions that
sinister methods had been used to bring
about the late disastrous fi-ah. I ask you
all, does our chief look like a man who would
at dead of night sneak into his own em-
porium with a firestick —or torch —con-
cealed in his clothing and there deliberately
set fire to the work of a lifetime?”
“No ! No ! Rear ear !”
The manager of the Fancy had pointed to
Mullholland, and that gentleman, all pretty
whiskers, smirk and crockery-ware teeth, cer-
tainly did not look like a man who would
carry a firestick in his clothes; but Mr.
Ruddle’s heated breath bore words that
sounded like “bisulphide carb’n cott’n waste.”
Mr. Lascelles went on. “When I resume
my seat, and before our chief responds to the
toast, I shall ask Mr. Canfield, manager of
the Dress department, to sing the tenor
ballad, ‘Maid of Athens.’ I now ask you to
be upstanding to drink to the health of our
chief who has triumphantly conquered all
the complexities and disappointments of the
late disastrous fi-ah.”
They drank, and unbuttoned—some liter-
ally, all mentally, except Mullholland, re-
hearsing his reply, and Mr. Ruddle, breath-
ing fire and slaughter as if lie were bound
for Damascus. Dignified and stately shop-
walkers pulled bonbons with reverend
seigneurs of the Clothing and Manchester.
They extracted paper fools’ caps from the
bonbons and put these on their heads, so
that Whaley saw the pillars of the- soft-
goods trade wearing clown hats of blue and
green and red and yellow, thus proving them-
selves mere moi-tals, after all.
It was during Mr. Canfield’s bitter cry
to the Maid of Athens to give him back
his heart that Mr. Harry Ruddle, as one
suddenly yielding to a new idea, left big seat
and stole up to the great Mullholland.
Whaley, watching him, saw that he had a
green paper cap in his hand. Arrived behind.
Mullholland, Mr. Ruddle lighted a match on
his own flank, fired the cap and put it on the
great man’s head.
They were all aghast at the sacrilege.
Mullholland, tearing the burning cap off
before it could become another disastrous
fi-ah, turned furiously on the joker, dis-
covered Ruddle and immediately calmed
down and placated his assaulter. His
motions showed Whaley that he was trying
to persuade Ruddle to return to his seat,
and then they had another shock. Ruddle,
the poor relation, slapped the great man on
the back and left Mullholland to return to
his place. As lie left Mullholland, he said:
“Right oh. Cockiewax.”
The large man at the right of Whaley
turned purple with indignation, saying, with
the earnestness of a bishop repudiating blas-
phemy :
“Cockiewax! That fellow said ‘Cockie-
wax’ ! To call the chief ‘Cockiewax’ means
instant dismissal.”
Whaley saw Mullholland pale to the lips
as if the ridiculous word carried some
deadly insult; and then he began to admire
the man for his patience.
“This ill-conditioned little brute,” thought
Whaley, “is bent on insulting his host, and
the host boars it because lie’s a poor re-
lation. This Mullholland has a lot of fine
points, although he is a draper.”
Whaley slightly drew away from Mr.
Ruddle on his return —slightly, though
pointedly; but Mr. Huddle’s successful bait-
ing of the great man without incurring a
penalty had made his drunkenness good-
humored. He chuckled openly to himself
and hissed of conspiracies no more. The
brother opposite, whose potations were
leaching the color from his face, stammer-
ingly advised him to be careful, and Henry
Ruddle laughed and uttered the ridiculous
word again:
“Cockiewax!”
Whaley’s right-hand neighbor exploded.
“What does it' mean?” asked Whaley.
“I don’t know, except that to say it in
our chief’s hearing means dismissal —instant
dismissal, sir. I understand that it is an
obscure insult used in Mr. Mullholland’s
schooldays. That frightful person next you
was at school with our chief, and he knows
it makes the chief frantic.”
“Cockiewax,” said Ruddle again, and
emptied his glass—also again.
“Rear ear,” said the company, as Mull-
holland rose to speak.
“My friends,” said Mullholland, with the
gentle, chastened air of a reformed courtesan
at a christening, “for I may call you my
friends, this token of your goodwill is a
most pleasant surprise. A man in the Trade
becomes used to misrepresentation. His con-
sciousness of an honorable feeling keeps him
healthy under the abuse that, without that
consciousness, would sap his vitals”
“Cockiewax!”
“Shame! Withdraw! Rear ear! With-
draw !”
“My friends,” said Mr. Mullholland, with
uplifted hand and a ghastly smile, “Mr.
Ruddle forgets himself, but in his condition
we must be patient—we must be gentle, we
must even ignore him. Now, we know the
part the Trade played during the war.
Despite all the socialistic chai-ges of profit-
eering, charges made by the enemies of the
Empire, we know how modest was our-er-
rearrangement of prices, and how the cus-
tomers themselves were responsible for in-
creases. With all the war-money the public
had to spend, we could have adhered to our
old prices and had the pleasure of seeing
our customers going to the other shops which
know wha't the public wants. If we opened
a line of coats and skirts at ten guineas and
found them unsaleable, and then had the
public rush the same line at fifteen guineas,
were we to blame in raising the prices as
they desired?”
“No ! No ! Rear ear !”
“It was just that insistence of the public
on, not big prices, but prices—er—higher
than formerly, that encouraged the Trade
to buy heavily abroad, to find to their dis-
may that the public—always fickle —did
not want high prices any more. That led
to many realisations; overdrafts were called
up ; the ruin of years of effort stared us in
the face.” *
“Cockiewax!”
“Now, by cripes!” said Mullholland. for-
getting his statesmanlike pose, “I’ll break
your damned neck!”
He recovered himself immediately, and as
if afraid that he had gone too far. “But, as
I said, we must take our friend’s condition
into consideration and bear with him. Now,
the position was as I have said. Banks
calling up overdrafts; shipments arriving on
falling markets ; the spending power of the
people curtailed. Little do these glib
socialists know the anxious time we had
devising ways and means so that the Trade
should do its noble work in keeping com-
merce alive for the good of our country.”
“Rear ear!”
“All the disloyal and socialistic elements
outside the Trade made all sorts of accu-
sations and insinuations against us. Even l
did not escape! When the late disastrous
fire occurred there were not wanting people
to say that Our Emporium had been de-
liberately burned down.”
“Shame! Rear ear!”
“You know how the insurance companies
delayed our claims until forced to pay : and
you know how that payment showed the
Trade and the public generally that our
hands were clean.”
“Cockiewax!”
“That’s the end of the section,” snarled
the Chesterfield of the Trade. He leaped
for Mr. Ruddle, but Whaley’s right-hand
neighbor got him first, lifted him from his
chair and ran him out, receiving the applause
of Mullholland and the others as he closed
the door and returned to the table. Ruddle’s
brother, his face now quite white but for
the little nose that looked like a ripe cherry,
left his seat and followed the disturber of
private peace ; and Whaley, seeing the solu-
tion with him, followed him.
Henry Ruddle collapsed in a settee half-
drugged by his mixed liquors.
“He was outed at last,” said Whaley to
Ruddle’s brother. “I’m surprised Mull-
holland bore it for so long.”
The whitefaced man grinned horribly.
“Mullholland couldn’t help it—he had to
ask us. Henry insisted on it.”
“Had to ask y0u....1 say—tell me—
does your brother know if Mullholland set
fire to the store?”
The pale face trembled.
“Too dangerous to talk about,” said
Ruddle’s brother.
“And what’s ‘Cockiewax’?”
“It used to make Mullholland mad at
school.”
“But why does Mullholland stand Henry?”
The pale-faced man looked about him
fearfully before replying, and then whis-
pered :
“Henry made Mullholland’s fortune.”
“Nonsense —Low ?”
“One engine got there before the place
was well alight, and Henry cut. the hose.”
Blossom Again.
Blossom again, my mind. O soul, bear fruit!
Enchanted Spring tiptoe is on the hiH,
And all earth’s pleasant pastures to her
thrill—
“ Take heart! Take heart!” she sings to
morning’s lute.
So, little song of mine, no more be mute:
Swift-foot run down to rhyme’s enrap-
tured rill;
Drink deep, drink long, drink to your
being’s fill—
Sweet Pan himself waits there with reedy
flute.
And. spirit, like a bird soar np once more
With tireless wings into the watchful
blue;
Beat, beat against the very stars till Rest
Remembers you no more, and at night's
door
Time bids all cease; song, spirit, mind,
soul —y0u....
Then fall, forgotten, poet. Such is best.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Lowlands.
J dreamt a dream the other night.
Lowlands, lowlands low!
I dreamt I saw my own true love.
Lowlands, lowlands low!
My own true love with hair of jet,
My own true love I love her yet;
My own true love with lips so ml—
The one true love I never wed.
Lowlands, lowlands low!
But in my night watch when the stars
Like silver lamps above the spars
Bring back a shoreward dream to me
The waiting eyes of Love I see.
Lowlands, lowlands low!
! Tis then the niglit-wind like a breath
Of promise from the sea of Death
In whispers bids my soul await
The final test of Time and Fate.
Lowlands, lowlands low !
But when the grey light of the morn
Comes coldly cruel and forlorn
The voices of the sceptic day
They drive my hopes and dreams away.
Lowlands, lowlands low!
I dreamt a dream the other night.
Lowlands, lowlands low!
I dreamt I saw my own true love.
Lowlands, lowlands low!
’Tis sailing to the lowlands,
The lowlands low;
’Tis sailing to the lowlands
We all must go;
A-sighing to the lowlands,
A-dying in the lowlands,
The lowlands, lowlands low.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


! 'O be healthy -
J drink
&
1
the finest
tonic food
drink
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists
and Stores
Direct &
Intercommun-
icating
Phones in
all'Bedrooms
Sco
I Its complete appointments
I include Ladies’ Drawing Room,
I Music and Writing Rooms, and
' Gentlemen’s Smoking, Writing Rooms
and Lounge. Electric fires in all
bedrooms. “Scott’s” is convenient to
Railway Stations, Passenger Steam-
ship Wharves, and all
places of public interest.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD
Telegrams and Cables:
“Scottsotel, Melbourne”
’Phone: Central 9011
(10 lines)
SCOTT’S HOTEL
Collins St., Melbourne
iMSiffi
HULL,
The Natural Port for importation of
Wool to Britain’s
Great Manufacturing Towns.
Docks specially equipped with
Electrical Machinery for the
handling of large quantities.
Warehouse 3j Acres
Holds 140,000 Bales.
AUSTRALIAN SHIPPERS are in-
vited to inquire for further information
at the offices of Messrs BURNS,
PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge
Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout New Zealand:
J. A. REDPATH & SONS, LTD.
London 8 North-Eastern Railway
Largest Dock-Owning Railway in the
World.
George
By-
J.M.M.ABBOTT.
IN the year 1806 young Mr. George Tre-
vethick, who, with several others of
diverse ages, played the part of the
modern typewriter in the law offices of
Messrs. Skuthorpe, Skuthorpe and Buckle,
of Lincoln’s Inn Fields, found that the
remuneration he received as a copyist of
legal documents and correspondence did not
suffice to cover the expenses attendant upon
an enthusiastic devotion to the noble sport
of cock-fighting.
Since the total emolument his firm gener-
ously awarded to the four amanuenses it
employed did not amount to quite £5 weekly,
it is hardly to be expected that Mr. Treve-
thick would have done so. Cock -fighting, at
that time, was as much a pastime of the
aristocracy and the moneyed classes as horse-
racing is to-day, or golf, or polo, or auction
bridge—which no very junior clerk cam
successfully follow up in a satisfactory fash-
ion without great cunning or luck, or much
blindness on the part of those who super-
vise his labors. As his annual income from
Messrs. Skuthorpe, Skuthorpe and Buckle
amounted to only £46 165., it is obvious
that Mr. Trevethiek could hardly live upon
his salary and also indulge his taste.
A bird named Jamaica Bill had long
appeared to Mr. Trevethiek to be a sure
thing in a battle which he was to contest:
with a certain Tornado, bred by a fancier
of Seven Dials. It was held, in cock-fight-
ing circles, that the rooster with the West
Indian name was as certain of victory in
the forthcoming contest as it was certain
that the dawn would succeed the night of the
battle. Especially in those circles in Clerken-
well in which Mr. Trevethiek moved. Noth-
ing could by any possibility affect the
result, once the birds had faced one another
in Sam Dacey’s cockpit, which was in the
neighborhood of the Elephant and Castle.
All the fancy had their money on Jamaica
Bill. So it seemed good to young George
that he should also have some on the splendid
gamecock—unthinkable that he should not.
Unfortunately he had no money of his
own. So he took some of the firm’s, which
might easily be put back after the event
nnd no one of any consequence be the wiser.
And then, in unaccountable fashion—no
lout)t due to some kind of foul play—
Jamaica Bill was not only ingloriously
beaten, but even put to death, by the despic-
able champion of the Dials. No such disaster
had ever occurred during the recent history
of the cockpit. It was unexplainable. And
Mr. G eorge Trevethiek was not the only
“sport” to whom the inexplicable event
spelled disaster and ruin—unless some kindly
miracle should happen. If by Saturday
morning at latest the £5 he had taken
from the petty-cash of Messrs, Skuthorpe,
Skuthorpe and Buckle could not be restored
thereto, something unpleasant would happen.
It was restored; and on the Tuesday fol-
lowing a Bow-street runner took George
Trevethiek into custody, on the capital charge
of having forged the name of the senior part-
ner of his firm to a bill for £lO. And now
it seemed likely that it might be said, “Here
endeth the lesson.”
But it did not end in the fashion that was
to be expected. They tried him at the Old
Bailey; and he was duly sentenced to death,
and listened on a Sunday to the Ordinary of
Newgate preach to him and several others
the final sermon in the chapel, with the
coffin set before the pew—which was such
a charming custom in eighteenth-century
London. Young Mr. Arthur Buckle, who
had rather liked the lad, and had some in-
fluence in high quarters, secured his reprieve,
so that instead of facing St. Sepulchre’s
Church on the Monday morning at eight o’clock
and providing entertainment for the inhabi-
tants of London by dancing upon nothing,,
he was sent to the hulks, with a ticket for
Botany Bay, where lie was to remain for the
term of his natural life. After that, the
British Government tacitly gave its consent
to his going anywhere he chose.
“George,” said the kindly Mr. Buckle to
him the day before the transport Duke of
Cumberland dropped down the river to
Gravesend —“George, my boy, let this be a
lesson to you. Mourn and tuum, you know—
meum and tuum, even over such a good sport
as cock-fighting. Better give it. up, my lad.
Meum and tuum, George.”
“Whose birds is them two, Mr, Arthur?”
asked the young convict with deep interest.
So “No. 1172, George Trevethiek, Duke of
Cumberland, London Sessions, Forgery,
Life,” duly arrived in Port Jackson at the
beginning of 1807, during the troublous reign
of Captain William Bligh.
>I« *<l! * *
Lieutenant John Purcell, of 11. M. 73rd
Regiment, Commandant at Newcastle in
1810, found himself, in October of that year,
greatly in need of some sort of clerk, or
secretary, possessed of a little higher educa-
tional attainments than were common among
the inhabitants of the Coal River settlement
at that distant date —and especially of one
who had had some sort of a legal training.
lie had been furnished by Mr. Secretary
Campbell, of his Excellency Governor Mac-
quarie’s staff, with a document that gave
him considerable anxiety. It was headed
“Instructions for the Guidance and Govern-
ment of Lieutenant Purcell, of the 73rd
Regiment, Commandant at Newcastle,” and
was dated, Government House, Ist October,
1810.
In this tremendous document there were
no Jess than thirty-nine numbered para-
graphs, which dealt, in a truly bewildering
“What he wan about to receive had greater terrors for him than
the gallows.”
fashion, with almost every existing condition
on the Hunter River and with every possible
contingency that Macquarie’s most careful
thought could picture as being likely to
arise. To read it in these days is to cause
one to wonder that the unhappy Comman-
dant did not, upon first perusing it, immedi-
ately go mad and fling himself over the
cliffs at the back of the village, with the
intention of departing for ever from the
grievous burdens of his office.
It opens with a statement that the “orig-
inal establishment of a port or military station
at Newcastle having been tto procure supplies
of coals, timber and lime for the service of
Government, you are to employ all the
means you are possessed of in the prosecu-
cution of those objects,” and goes on, to the
extent of about two-thirds of the length
of this story, to instruct, exhort and com-
mand the young officer in the way that he
should set about his task. Methods of book-
keeping, shipping regulations, criminal statis-
tics, convict discipline, commissariat, issue
of clothing, what to do with wreckage, how
to keep visiting sailors in their place, rules
for surf-bathing, forestry, coal-mining, Sun-
day observances—these are but a few of
the matters in which the careful ‘Captain-
General and Governor-in-Chief in and over
his Majesty’s Territory of New South
Wales’ instructs his deputy. One quaint
paragraph—No. 17 —may be quoted to show
what the harassed subaltern found himself
up against.
“Owners of private huts,” it goes, “are
to he apprized that they will be held respon-
sible for the ill-conduct of any persons
lodging wth them, unless they themselves
come forward and give information against
them, and you are to require all persons who
let lodgingts to give information jagainisjt
such lodgers as pass their nights abroad.”
To enforce nis government and preserve
order, Mr. Purcell had a garrison consisting
of one sergeant, two corporals and twenty-
five rank and file. The Commissariat Es-
tablishment consisted of a storekeeper. As
there were only about seventy-five inhabi-
tants, exclusive of the garrison, in the little
settlement, it might not. appear that, the
Commandant’s task was a very onerous one.
Nor would it have been, but for the Code
Macquarie. It was not good to be found
wanting by the dour autocrat who spared
neither himself nor others in matters of
duty—which brief but pregnant word lie was
ever wont to spell with a capital D.
It is little wonder that Mr. Purcell felt
his task to be almost mere than he could
carry out alone. So we find him summon-
ing Sergeant Alexander McNab into confer-
ence upon the subject of a secretary. Also,
he called to his aid Mr. Wareham, the Com-
missariat officer. They met in tbe evening
at the Commandant’s cottage—a picturesque,
if not spacious, mansion with a thatched
roof that stood somewhere in the neighbor-
hood of the present Hospital at Newcastle.
Having invited these two representatives of
the upper classes of the Lower Hunter to
refresh themselves with rum, Mr. Purcell
came to the point.
“I’ve summoned you here, Mr. Wareham,
and you, Sergeant McNab, in order to dis-
cuss a matter that is at present giving me a
good deal of worry. Ye’ve seen the regula-
tions and orders which his Excellency has
been good enough to send to me—l told you
both to take a look at them soon after they
arrived? Yes. Well, I find it well-nigh im-
possible to attend to all the details they in-
sist upon without some better assistance
than is available from my four servants.
Only two of them can read and write—and
that only very indifferently. I want to find,
if possible, some fellow amongst our people
who can give me some help. I wonder if
either of you knows of any such? It occurred
to me, McNab, that there might be one
amongst the soldiers who would serve my
purpose.”
The sergeant, a dour and solemn Scot,
immediately shook his head. “Y’r honor,” he
said, “I doot if there’s half a dozen of tli’
guar-rd can do more than sign their names.
I ken weel th’ most o’ yon laddies is a sair
uninstroocted lot o’ loons, wi’ no buik lamin’
whitsoever. ’Tis all tli’ maist o’ them can
do to make their cross marks on th’ pay-
sheet each month. ’Tis but little use, Mr.
Purcell, sir, a-lookin’ to them for ony
asseestance. Nane at all, y’r honor.”
"I hardly expected it. Sergeant. Mr.
Wareham, can you advise me? Pray con-
sider the matter well. ’Tis of great import-
ance to me.”
The storekeeper, a jovial-looking little man
with a red face and a paunch, responded
eagerly.
“Mr. Purcell, I think I can put my hands
on the very man for you. In fact, I’ve
got him working in the stores now. A rare
and clever one, y’r honor. Up to all the
writing business, and as cunning as they
make ’em. His hand o’ writin’ is something
to admire. I’ll be sorry to lose him —but
I know y’r honor’s business is more import-
ant than what mine is. I’ll send him up to
ye in th’ morning, sir.”
“Pray what is his name, Mr. Wareham,
and for what did he come to the colony?”
“His name’s George Trevethiek, y’r honor,
a London lad, and he was sent out for for-
gery. Of course, that’s a little agin him,
sir; but, Lord, we can’t pick an’ choose
amongst ’em when there’s work for to be
done —can we? I expect he’ll sarve the
purpose you require him for, as well as if
he was a one-time parson.”
“And his calling before he came to New
South Wales—do you happen to know that?”
“He was a lawyer's clerk, sir. He knows
more about lawyer’s work than many of ’em
that’s wealin’ broadcloth in the Inns o’
Court at home, Mr. Purcell. I’d recommend
ye for to take him, sir. I would, indeed.”
The Commandant rose to his feet with a
sigh of relief. “I thank you heartily, Mr.
Wareham. Pray send him to me in the
morning. A little more rum before you go
—'tis a cold night. Sergeant—help your-
self.”
As the storekeeper and the sergeant walked
back to their quarters the former observed
with ill-concealed satisfaction:
“I don't wish Mr. Purcell any harm,
Sar'nt McNab. but I’m d—d glad he’s got
young George instead o’ me.”
“For why. Mr. Wareham?”
“Well, lie’s one o’ these fellies that gets
to know too much. Too damn clever by
half. I wish th’ Commandant joy of him!”
On a hot day in December the Command-
ant returned to his office in the afternoon,
after having seen a schooner off to Sydney
laden with cedar logs and lime, to find await-
ing him the solemn-visagcd Sergeant McNab.
As he walked up to the verandah the ser-
geant drew himself stiffly erect and saluted,
Mr. Purcell thought, with even more than
usual of the punctiliousness that distin-
guished this model n.c.o. of the 73rd.
“Well, McNab,” he said, returning the
salute, “and what can I do for you? Is
there anything wrong?”
“I’ve bad news for y’r honor, if y’r honor
pleases.”
“Ha! Well, any news is better than none
in this outlandish hole, Sergeant. Most of
the news I get here is of a sufficiently dis-
agreeable nature to make me quite impervious
to sudden shock. What is it—has one of
the mines caved in?”
Sergeant McNab shook his head gravely.
“Nae, nae, sir. Not so far as I’m aweer.
’Tis of your clerk Trevethiek I've to tell
ye, Mr. Pur-rcell, sir.”
“Why, he’s inside in the office, isn’t he?”
With the utmost gloom the Sergeant again
shook his head.
“Nae, y’r honor, he’s i’ th’ clink—l mean
the guardroom, sir. He’s been cot a-tryin’
for to abscond y’r honor. Aboord th'
schooner. For to get away to Sydney, y’r
honor.”
“Oh, absurd! There must be some mis-
take. Why, I’ve but just seen the Amelia
pass outwards round the Coal Island, and
was aboard of her just before she hauled
out into the stream. And she was searched,
in the regular way, by Corporal Liddy. He
couldn’t have been trying to escape in the
schooner.”
“Sir, Corp’ral Bates an two privates was
a-fishin’ off the rocks at Colliers’ Point, when
they see him a-swimmin’ off on a sort of
float he’d made himscl’. But th’ tide was
too strong, an’ he had for to come ashore.
So they took him, an’ brought him to th'
guardroom, and when he was searched they
foun’ this here bag o’ dollars on him, an’
some papers belongin’ to y’r honor. Here
they be, y’r honor.”
The sergeant took from his bosom a little
canvas bag, still damp, and a cylindrical
roll of tarred canvas, which he handed to
the Commandant.
(Continued on page 57.)


Banking,
Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital. . .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves . . .. £3,369,965
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928 . . £18,623,453
Directors; Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood ; H. R. Lysagiit, 0.8. E. ;
George J. Sly, T.L.D. ; l.ieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
leuqe ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chid Inspector : IV. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE', SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager; A. F. Jenkins.
London, Directors:
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd, Jvmes Turk.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock . . . . . . £529,988
Preference Shares . . . . • • 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares . . 374,197
Ordinary Shares . . . . • . 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,609,655
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, ’ Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking
interest for
periods
business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£1,000,000
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. 0. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two minutes
Ironi Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay .
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
SAFE with GUY ATT’S !
w
The improved Guyatt
Elastic Truss is the latest
and most efficient Elastic
Truss on the market to-day.
It has been altered and
improved in several import-
ant points of construction,
until its strength, efficiency
and durability have been greatly increased. A careful
examination of this Truss will prove every claim
made for its advantage over others.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
GUYATT & CO.,
Expert Makers of Surgical Appliances,
Dept. 8., 257 a George St., Sydney.
Opposite Bridge Street.
\
■ss&
\c»
vVe
cV a
tv®
\\c»
\\cy
&?V
oC. st°^
< «* <il
i s>" /u MJ
D*M
WAINUT
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY i
<GWEY
MAinj
WOWLB
1 SPOIJL
IT #
Shipping, etc.
il/A
,L ’■.V
■ 'ft >
7/m
bmFwtWmlWl \*WwS£ \
'll ~
i:#B
&
icuMifl
WiVv
Take the Beauty J
Route to Canada l
LINKING port with port in the
fascinating Pacific the true
scenic highway to Europe via Canada
and the United States —the magnifi-
cent liners Aorangi and Niagara
traverse the All Red Route of the
Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail
Line.
The longest time at sea between the
picturesque ports is only seven days.
An Attractive Pacific Route
vieing in novelty and interest is the
Union Line service from Sydney to San
Francisco, via Rarotonga and
Papeete. This idyllic trip through Tahitian
waters is gaining in favor every year. The
fine ocean steamers of the Union Com-
pany are admirably suited to this passage
through the S.outh Seas.
Literature and Particulars from —
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
69 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by All Steamship Lines.
Choice of Any Route.
Without Extra Charge.
From AUSTRALIA to
ENGLAND
FRANCE
ITALY
GERMANY
AMERICA
CANADA
MEXICO
AFRICA
JAPAN
EGYPT
INDIA
CHINA
Also attractive tours to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji,
BUSINESS TRIPS. PLEASURE CRUISES.
AUSTRALIA TO
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly sailings maintained by the popu-
lar steamers “MARELLA” and “MALA-
BAR” from Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane, via
Queensland Ports,
Torres Strait,
Darwin, etc.
For Reservations and
Information apply: —
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. And all Branch Offices.
ŵ
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
tDemosthenes 11,500 tons, Sept. 11
’’'Nestor 15,000 ~ Oct. 2
JCeramic .. . 18,500 ~ Oct. 16
'■’'Ulysses .... 15,000 ~ Nov. 13
fThemistocles 11,500 ~ Nov. 27
'■'Anchises. . . 10,000 ~ Dec. 10
' ! 'Ascanius. . . 10,000 ~ Jan. 7
JSuevic 12,500 ~ Jan. 23
fEuripides . . 15,000 ~ Jan. 28
tßunic 12,500 „ Feb. 19
'•'First class only. fFirst and Third class.
s“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.,
Joint
Agents
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON, LTD.,
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. AVills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Huddart Parker Lyn
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE LIABILITY
f
.
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Director»:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
Janies M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faitnfull. Esq., M.D.
ẁ
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sidney. London Office—29 Thread needle Street, E.C. 3.
518 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
ẃ
BRISBANE.via BYRON BAY
fhrohgh tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLON GEAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CIIALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 850 George Street, Sydney:
or 484 Collins Street, Melbourne.
\v\\\
V:'#.
3Sg
N\
OftarfdiTIX EROSENI MANTi.6 LAMP, s
# X A
8*?
-CANDLE POtfER
'Pure
So restful to tired
eyes, so simple, so eco-
nomical. Three hours’ light
for one penny.
Use electric light for its con-
venience, BUT for your eyes'
•ake, light an Aladdin for
reading or sewing.
Chases gloom away ; floods your
home with soft white light.
Costs little and saves that cost
over and over again. Burns 94%
air, 6% kerosene vapour, lights
on a wick like an ordinary lamp.
Let us arrange a Free Trial through
Tour local Dealer. Write for par-
ticulars of this FREE OFFER.
Aladdin Industrie* Ltd.
852 Aladdin House,
49-53 Shepherd St., SYDNEY
An Aladdin Dealer is every town.


A Message to
Kidney Sufferers
DR. SHELDON’S GIN PILLS are the remedy you require for Backache,
Kidney, Bladder and Urinary Trouble. If they don’t benefit you we will
refund the purchase price. SHELDON DRUG CO., LTD.
That's a plain, straightforward statement, and the words meau exactly what
they say. , „ r , .
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are the remeay you need it you suffer from -back-
ache, Kidney, Bladder or Urinary Trouble.
They must benefit you, or your money will be cheerfully refunded.
You are to be the judge and jury.
Your word wall be accepted as final.
Your money will be returned without quibble or argument ot any kind if
Gin Pills do not benefit you.
Consider what this method of doing business means.
It means that Gin Pills will benefit 99 cases of Backache, Kidney, Bladder
or Urinary Troubles out of every 100. .
We have substantial proof of these from practically every centre in Australia.
It also means that we have a large faith in the honesty of men and women.
We do not believe that a single man or woman out of 100 who have suffered
the torments of Backache, Kidney, Bladder or Urinary troubles would deny the
benefit they would receive from treatment with Gin Pills.
We are sure 99 out of 100 would joyously admit it.
GIN
PILLS
i_ 8
HELP YOU
This extraordinary offer is made because of these facts:—
The known medicinal properties of Gin Pills and the honesty of human nature.
Each Gin Pill contains all the constituents, with the exception of alcohol,
of a pint of the finest gin, combined with other known diuretics, and forms a
remedy which benefits almost every case. Gin Pills are put up in glass bottles,
hermetically sealed, and we sell them to you with the absolute assurance that
if they do not benefit you we will refund your money.
They are sold in two size bottles —at 1/9, or in large bottles, holding more
than double the quantity, at 2/9.
Buy a large bottle at 2/9 and give them a fair test, use two-thirds of the
bottle, and if you feel they are not benefiting you, return your bottle to the
chemist or storekeeper from whom you purchased it, and he will refund the
money; or communicate direct with the Sheldon Drug Co., Limited, 131-30
Clarence Street, Sydney.
Under these conditions is it not worth while for any sufferer from Backache,
Kidney, Bladder or Urinary Trouble to at once test this wonderful remedy?
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
For Backache and Kidney Troubles.
r
Mailed to you the
day they are made
fosb fre.
nee lo any
address in Quslralia.
fJke famous "Red. Box of GkocobateS
(PATON)
#
phices
J/-. 54,6/-, 10/-, 124.
20/cortdL3o4
HILL
CHOCOLAT
address— \ %*QO‘ .162-166 Pitt Str.eet
SYDNEY^
E S
w
SEND FOR. CATALOGUE ILLUSTRATED WITH REPRODUCTIONS OF OUR. CONFECTIONERY IN COLOURS
“Well. God bless my soul! Come inside,
McNab, whilst I see what the papers are.”
He seated himself at his table, and undid
the package, the sergeant standing solemnly
at attention before it. For a little while.
Mr. Purcell studied the papers which he
took from their waterproof covering, the
frown on his good-looking features becoming
deeper as he examined them. After he had
laid them aside he untied the cord that
secured the bag. and poured a heap of
Spanish dollars on the table.
“There should be saxtyAhree. sir; we
counted them i’ th' guardroom,” volunteered
the sergeant.
Mr. Purcell nodded, and then leaned his
head upon his hands, and thought deeply for
nearly a minute. At length he looked up,
and spoke.
“Bring the young fellow up here, Ser-
geant,” he ordered.
Sergeant McNab saluted, wheeled stiffly
about, and went out the door.
“Well, I'll be damned!” muttered the
Commandant to himself.
An hour later, a procession of two walked
along the cliffs to the southward of the
settlement. One was the Commandant, and
the other a young and not, ill-looking
prisoner, dressed in the rough clothing issued
to his kind. From the breast of the Com-
mandant's tunic peeped the butt of a
pistol. They came into a grassy hol-
low in the undulating highlands to which
Colonel Paterson had given the name of the
Sheep Pasture Hills —King Edward VII.
Park is there now.
Here the Commandant halted, and turned
to his companion, upon whose features lurked
the suspicion of a sneering smile. Mr.
Purcell addressed him—in slow, measured
terms.
“Now George, my boy, I have brought you
out here to teach you the lesson of your
lifetime. You have admitted forging my
handwriting to a recommendation for a par-
don to the Governor, on account of your
meritorious conduct. *as well as to an order
on the Paymaster of the 73rd. And the steal-
ing of the dollars. These crimes are enough
to hang you. But for your impudence in
threatening me with a revelation of the fact
that I have from time to time committed
breaches of Mr. Macquarie’s regulations,
should I not consent to overlook your iu-
conduct, I am going to deal with you my-
self. Do you know anything of boxing/
Paling a little, the young man said that
he didn't —at least, not much.
“Ah well, that’s a pity for your own sake.
I do. I’m supposed to be the best man with
mv hands in the regiment. I am going to
give you such a hiding as has seldom been
administered to anyone in the prize ring at
home—and you may believe me that there
have been some pretty bad ones. 1 will not
quite kill you—but very nearly. You will
be left here unconscious in a few minutes
—but I will have you brought in and put in
the hospital, and by-and-bye you will re-
cover. You will then have a flogging, a
pleasure I don't think you've yet. experienced.
But I will refrain from having you hanged.
’Twould be a pity to waste such a good
clerk. You will come back to my office,
when you are quite well again. And I trust
that by that time you will have learned that
honesty is the best policy—as much at the
Coal River as anywhere else. Take oft your
coat —or keep it on, if you please. I-will
make no difference.”
Mr Purcell unbuttoned his scarlet tunic
and laid it, with the pistol, on the grass
behind him. Mr. Trevethick. quite white
now, gaped at him stupidly, his lower lip
drooping and his eyes wide with terror.
Rightly the Commandant had judged him.
What he was about to receive had greater
terrors for him than the gallows.
“George, my lad,” said Mr._ Purcell, as
he stepped towards the shrinking prisoner,
“this will teach you not only the inadvisa-
bility of forgery and attempted blackmail,
but also the difference between meum and
tuurn. You will be a better man afterwards.
Through his two convalescences, young
George Trevethick had one insistent ques-
tion ringing through his astonished brain.
Were Meum and Tuurn the names of game-
cocks, or heroes of the prize ring? Long
afterwards, when he was a highly respected
settler on Patrick's Plains, up the river, he
found the solution in a Latin grammar be-
longing to his son.
The Golden Calf.
E. M. ENGLAND'S STORY OF A WAKENED LOVE IN THE ROW COUNTRY.
EVERY man has his ruling passion—
every woman, too. With some it is
horses; with others, machinery, books,
music, sheep. With Jamie Ross it was
cows.
Jamie had tried his hand at most things,
but he couldn't keep away from cows. He
always returned to the old love. Once, a
sort of secondary star in the firmament,
Carrie Amlin had loomed above his horizon.
Temporarily she had dimmed other interests;
so had the great event, the birth of his son
Ted. But all rapture is short-lived. Human
nature cannot be keyed up to high pitch
long and remain normal. The advent of the
girls, Sue and Janet, had not stirred Jamie
to great excitement. Like Carrie, they
early recognised the fact that they were of
secondary importance bo the cows.
Ted was another Jamie. Before he left
school he was a competent judge of a cow
and could milk with any man. He seldom
played. Sport did not attract him. Like
Jamie, he wanted to make money to buy
more cows —g'Ood cows, whose names were
in the studbook; small, silken, tawny crea-
tures that shone like silk; docile Jerseys,
with pensive black eyes protruding from
their weak-minded faces.
Jamie’s stock was all good. His bull
had a most impressive pedigree; a swarthy,
stocky, vicious brute of which the women
were frankly afraid. Jamie often made
good sales out of his herd. People came
from a distance to buy. Eland-feeding for
show purposes, travelling expenses and sun-
dry other items left but a small margin of
profit. Still, he was confident that some day
lie and Ted would work up a prosperous
stud farm.
Carrie and Sue and Janet formed a separ-
ate group. Some women are made for
other things. Carrie had been, and her
daughters, too. At first the girls hadn't
minded. Milking, separating, feeding pigs,
pulling corn, planting and digging potatoes
and helping with hay were all an accepted
part of their routine. They helped on the
farm, and washed, scrubbed and baked with
Carrie from the time they left school. But
soon they w T anted frocks, dances, picnics,
“boys” of their own, and so long as these
things did not hinder Jamie they had them.
But continued outings interfered with milk-
ing, and too many frocks drained money
that was needed for rugs, grooming-brushes
and repairs. Then, a girl who had been
dancing until two in the morning was not
fit to dig potatoes or help with hay through
a hot forenoon. ,
Ted was not a dancer. After tea he
usually went to bed. Sometimes lie played,
the accordion softly and sang snatches of
song, or played cards with Jamie, but more
often he was too tired for recreation. That
didn’t matter to Ted. He had never been
used to play, so he did not miss it.
Then the subject of wages cropped up.
Some of the neighbors gave their girls an
allowance such as they would have received
in a domestic position. Janet and Sue har-
ried their mother about this until she spoke
to Jamie. He would not hear of it.
“But they work hard, Dad. They deserve
a little, surely!” she pleaded.
“Work hard? So they should! So do I!
Who’s fed and clothed them all these years?”
cried Jamie, outraged, glaring at the girls
over his spectacles. lie put down his paper
so hastily that it slid to the floor and lay
there, pages flapping in the wind. “Who’s
paid their bills for them since they were
born?” he demanded.
Janet said nothing, but Sue tossed her
head. Her cheeks flamed. Then, astonish-
ingly. she remarked;
“We didn’t ask to be born.” She rose
from her chair and faced him, tears well-
ing up in her placid browm eyes. “And I'm
sure I wouldn’t have wanted to be born
into a world of cornsacks and potatoes and
everlasting cows !”
“It’s the cows that provide your bread
and butter, my girl,” put in Ted testily.
She rounded upon him. “You’re just as
bad. It isn’t ordinary cows I mind ; cows-
like the neighbors’ that just calve and give
milk and that’s all. They're right enough.
But ours ! It’s a wonder they don't live in
the house while we camp outside!”
Carrie stared at her, horrified, but she
knew Sue was right. Jamie had bought
timber and put up a new hayshed. He had
paid a good sum to have new bails built
with cemented floors, a covered shed with
two troughs for the cows to feed from while
they were being milked, and separate floors
for exit and entrance. There was a feed-
room, also cemented, and a dairy, painted
white, with a gauze window and a dado,
and a floor fit to cat from. Neighbors came
to inspect, enviously; peered and poked;
opened and shut doors. Then they wandered
back to their buggies or cars, poking knotted
fingers into pungent pipe-bowls, ruminating.
And nearly all said the same thing:
“Cripes, Jamie! Y'r sheds are better'n
y’r house!”
Carrie used bo wince to hear them say
this. Always she had longed for a nice
home. She had managed for years now with
all sorts of temporary arrangements. Even
her baking-tins were cut from kerosene-tins,
and her dippers and billycans were syrup-
tins provided with holes and handles. She
had always made the girls’ dolls herself.
She bought only bare necessities for house-
keeping. She seldom had a new dress or
new shoes. She was handy with the rattly
old sewing-machine, and could “make things
do.” Jamie and Ted had grown so used
to her making things do that they took all
her meek service for granted.
But Carrie had her dreams. Now she
listened to Sue in a kind of daze. Sue was
right; the cows came first; the women of
the house counted for nothing. They were
like heathens slaving in fear to appease some
horrific idol. Ant-eaten railings, leaky roo.f,
creaking boards, cracks in the wall through
which the west wind whistled —these Jamie
never noticed so long as the cows were
snug and warm and gave good milk.
“Sue’s right, Jamie,” she said suddenly.
“Everything’s let go for the cows.” She
rose, her thin form towering above him.
“You and Ted and your everlasting pedi-
grees! You remind me of Aaron worshipping
a golden calf!”
“Well,” snapped Sue, “I’m finished,
Mother. I’m through ! I’m twenty. I’m not
going to be a doormat for the Jerseys any
longer. I'm going out to work.”
And, thus encouraged:
“Me, too!” said Janet. “I won’t stay
here without Sue. I’m eighteen !”
Their mother looked at them in dismay.
“And leave me to it all?”
Sue's face softened. She squeezed one
wrinkled hand. “You come, too, Mother I
We can all get jobs. Jobs with wages.”
Jamie rose, knocking his chair backwards.
“Now here’s enough of this nousense,” he
said. “Let me hear no more of it. Get the
dinner things cleared. It’s late already.
We’ve got corn bo plant in the top paddock,
then it’ll be time to get the cows in!”
He and Ted went off with the planter.
When they came back through the slanting
sunlight, hats pushed to the back of their
heads, grey singlets open at the throats, the
house was curiously still. Jamie looked
towards the bails. Not a cow stood in the
yard. He felt a tingling sensation dowm
his spine. Could those girls have meant
what they had said?
In their bedroom odd garments lying
about told thfcir own tale. The girls had
sorted and packed. He went into the room
(Continued on ne:ct page.)


NEXT WEEK
“The Phantom Tide.”
A tale of a startling adventure
on the Queensland Coast, by
R. Exon Butchart.
“The Ring,”
in which Charles Blake tells
how a Supreme Court Judge
lost his grip on things and
recovered it.
AND OTHERS.
TheMs
The great success of Zam-Buk for all skin
troubles lies in its original and valuable formula.
Zam-Buk contains certain extracts of herbal
origin, so blended as to bring out amazing heal-
ing power. Directly this refined balm is applied
it soaks into the tissues, thereby healing below
as well as on the skin’s surface.
GREATEST
Zam-Buk is most soothing and a safe anti-
septic. It kills and excludes the germs of fester-
ing and blood-poison. Zam-Buk stops pain,
allays inflammation and reduces swelling. The
skin is soon rid of all pus and impurity by
Zam-Buk, which is a splendid healer for cuts,
wounds and sores of all kinds.
HFAI ED
Zam-Buk swiftly clears the skin of rashes,
pimples, etc., and it gets at the root of obstinate
ulcers, eczema, piles, poisoned sores, scalp dis-
eases and other serious ailments for which coarse
lardy ointments and salves are quite useless.
Zam-Buk is the last word in antiseptic healing
and is aptly described as “A Surgery in a Two-
inch Box.” Of all chemists, 1/6 box or 3/6.
CONTAINS
NO LARD & NO OTHER
ANIMAL OIL on TAT.
gp eal
THt
H ER^AJ;
c
*
*
c
PI
PL
CHAPPED
RASHES
Vs
i//V£Q£/AL£.ED ronSPOPTSMEM
f?L/& /T //V "
Possessing a hisrh and defi-
nite proportion of the active
properties that have made
the Zani-Buk healing balm
so famous, Zani-Buk Soap
amßukSoap
MEDICINAL A TOILET
well merits its claim to be the most richly-medicated soap in the world.
Its regular use soothes and clears the skin and makes it soft and pliable.
Used as s shampoo Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap keeps the scalp hygienic
and healthy. Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap is also highly recommended
for baby’s bath on account of its purity and refinement. In single l/«
tablets, or box of three, 2/10.
which he shared with Carrie. The same
there; a chair tipped against the wall; one
drawer still open. Carrie, too, had gone.
He went out on to the front verandah
with its rough, uneven boards, and shaded
his eyes against the sunlight. In the dis-
tance, on the road to the township, he saw
something—a black dot that hardly moved,
so far away it was. The buggy! It was
Carrie’s —lies* only possession. lie- bad
bought it in her name when they had
married twenty-three years ago. He stood
there, taut and staring.
“Gee!” Ted ejaculated at his elbow. “To
clear off like that! We’ll bring them back
—the cows!”
The last word brought Jamie out of his
reverie. He was always a little slow to
think. But his dark face had hardened.
“Yes; catch Bonny, and bring them in,”
he said peremptorily. “It’s goin’ to take
us all our time to milk sixty cows before
dark. But we can manage without a pack
o’ women !”
* * # *
Carrie, looking back through the opal
haze, wiped her eyes with a home-made
handkerchief, one of her best, with a tatted
edge.
“This dust!” she choked; but the edging
was wet. “There’s no home like your own !”
she added.
“Now, mother, don't look back!” Sue said
firmly. “We’ve got to hustle to put that
egg-money to the best advantage. It won’t
last long. No time for dreaming. All that’s
left behind !”
* * # #
“They'll come back,” Jamie said.
But they didn’t. And two men who have
known the tireless ministrations of women-
folk soon tire of batching. Sixty milking
cows do not leave much time for cooking,
and none for housekeeping. As the weeks
passed Jamie and Ted began to feel the
urge of hunger for savory food nearly as
strongly as the urge to make money. Ted
decided that they must locate their women-
folk and urge them to listen to reason.
“We might give them something each a
week,” he suggested. “After all, they get
it at other places, and ’tain’t as if you can’t
afford it, if you go a bit easier on the cows!”
But Jamie was adamant.
“I’ve got plenty more improvements to
make on this farm before I start paying
wages,” lie replied tersely. “It's time you
got the cows in, Ted. As long as there’s
corned-beef and bread and tea, we won’t
starve. Yard up the bull, too. Then lie’s
done with. Can’t have him leading the
cows into the lucerne like he did last night.
If you hadn't spotted ’em, they'd have all
been down to it this morning. Half of ’em
lost, likely. A pretty picnic, drenching
half a hundred blown cows!”
He watched Ted go off through the after-
noon sunlight. Ted who was the apple of
his eye; who would earn money after he,
Jamie, had to give up the milking and take
to sitting about on the verandahs. Already
his wrinkled hands were knotted with
rheumatism, his back was an agony, his
knees felt as though pierced with knives.
“It’ll get me soon,” lie said. “I’ll have to
lie up with it. But Ted can carry on.
There’s not a finer boy”
Then he heard Ted’s cry; looked over to
the yards and saw his son and the bull.
Ted had yarded the brute dozens of times,
quickly, forcefully, with no show of fear.
Yet now Ted had turned in flight, fallen
and staggered up with his back to a fence.
He turned to climb. Too late! The stal-
wart body fell in a broken heap.
Two hours later Ted was an inanimate
form lying in a bed at the local hospital.
In the passage outside the ward, Jamie
spoke anxiously to the doctor.
“I haven’t anyone else,” he explained
pathetically. “I’ll have to chuck in the
•milking. The rheumatism’s beat me. I
can’t milk any more.”
“He must be kept quiet,” the doctor said,
professionally. “I’m afraid, Mr. Ross,” ho
added more gently, “your son won’t milk
again for a long time—lf ever. He is badly
injured. .. .maybe crippled.”
Old Jamie went back to his dilapidated
house and his spick-and-span bails. Kindly
neighbors lent assistance. Somehow lie got
through, and went indoors the following
evening to prepare his meal. It was dry
and tasteless, and he had no appetite for it.
Moreover, his heart had failed him. Ted a
cripple! He sat with his head on his
hands, his beard gleaming silverly in the
light that was dim because the lamp had
smoked and they had not bothered to clean
the glass.
A wind had risen outside, so that, sunken
in reverie, lie did not -hear the whir of an
approaching car, nor a light step on the
step. But when the door was thrown open,
he started and leapt to his feet. A gust
of wind extinguished the light, plunging the
room into darkness. But black against the
moonlight beyond, a woman’s figure stood
out in silhouette; a tall figure, spare, alert,
erect —Carrie! Carrie groping her way to
him!
“Jamie!” she called: “where are you?
Light the lamp. Grace Smith knew where I
was. She 'phoned me about Ted. Tell me
about it. Jamie. Tell me about Ted.”
He lit the lamp and replaced the glass.
Then he sat down, and told her all. She
watched him silently throughout, but when
he had finished and his eyes met hers ques-
tioningly, she averted her gaze. It hurt
her to see how he had aged.
“I know what you’re thinking.” he said
contritely. “That bull! I ought to have
got rid of him long ago. You told me he'd
kill one of us some day. He’s all but killed
Ted.” His voice trailed off into a moan.
“It'd have been better if lie hud killed him,
perhaps... .Carrie, Ted'll be a cripple for
life.”
She was appalled. Stalwart, bronzed,
taciturn Ted —fashioned for toil and activity.
One could as easily imagine a lion in a
wheel-chair as great, handsome Ted.
“I s’pose you want to see him?” Jamie
asked awkwardly.
She nodded. "But we can’t go till morn-
ing.”
“Wliy’d you come out here, Carrie?” he
asked curiously. “You’d have been nearer
Ted in town.”
She looked at him for awhile without
replying. Strange, she hadn’t looked at him
quite like that since Sue was born !
“I was wondering how you’d manage
sixty cows by yourself, Jamie. So—l came
on out.”
“Carrie,” lie said, “I’m, getting a couple
of men to-morrow. I—l can’t milk any
more. The rheumatism’s got me at last. 1
always knew it'd set in sometime and get
me beat."
“That won’t pay,” said Carrie practically.
“Two men at the present wages! We’ll
have to think.”
He said glumly: “I’ll have to sell. In
the meantime”
She mused awhile. “The girls are both
marrying this year. But”
Their eyes met again, and this time they
held. She reached a workworn hand across
the table and clasped his misshapen fist
where it lay clenched upon the pine, spotted
now with grease and grime.
“I'll get them back!" Carrie said. “Jamie,
we had to learn our lesson, like you and
Ted. Other people’s homes aren’t like
your own. While I've been baking cakes
and roasting meat in up-to-date tins, many’s
the time I’d have been glad to use my old
home-made ones and have a bit of spell in
my old rocker. But when the girls go,
Jamie”
He nodded gloomily. “There’ll be just
ourselves and Ted. He'll take up most of
your time for awhile.”
His face was full of abject misery, his
eyes dog-like.
“Carrie,” he added, “after you left—it
wasn’t the same. I'd never go through it
again. I wouldn’t have cared if I'd never
see a cow any more if I could have heard
you singing in the kitchen or seen you pot-
terin’ about the garden. You said I wor-
shipped the golden calf. You were wrong.
Cod help me, Carrie, it’s only you I care
about!”
Again Carrie’s face took on that expres-
sion it had worn during their brief romance;
affectionate, indulgent, dreamily happy.
“It seems as if somehow I knew it ail
the time, Jamie,” she said.
Sonnet.
To those things I aspire: Tranquillity—■
A life of easy walking in the shade
Of evergreens, through air serenely staid,
Where the pert seasons may not trouble me .
To days of musing, of all worries free,
With placid mind to plunge within itself
And pluck from some deep-sunk, mysterious
shelf
The pearls of seas that flow eternally.
But these retreats are only to be gained
Against all men's desires, as driving gales :
For men fear him, to mountain heights
attained.
Who will not share their turmoil in the
vales;
Or else we all take arms for pleasing ease
And stir the world to shambles, seeking
peace.
N.S.W.
RONALD MCCUAIG.
Mopoke.
Now the gold-painted sunset dies away
And, like the note of slow, reluctant bells.
Out of the sombre scrubland, growing grey,
His melancholy note the brown owl tells.
I listen, as I listened when a child
Deep in the shadow of the apple-gums,
About my feet the bracken running wild ;
About my head a wheeling beetle hums.
And I am dreaming, as I used to dream
On long-dead summer evenings when a girl.
Watching entranced the cloud-wrought ban-
ners stream
Into pale nothingness of jade and pearl.
Oh, memory! Oh, bushbird calling low.
Answering your mate across the darkening
hill!
The sundering seas took mine long, long ago ;
But in my heart I’m calling for him still.
And thinking, as alone I listen here,
A woman, growing old and very tired,
How wrong, liow sweet, how wonderful they
were,
The dreams I dreamed, the Edens I
desired !
So much there is that went amiss, so much
Of gold that was but fairy coinage, I
Set no more buds the blackening frost to
touch ;
So much there is that’s crooked, patched,
awry.
% % % %
The clustering stars grow thicker, spark on
spark:
Only the river whispers, hushed, apart.
Oh. little comrade of the leafy dark,
Some of the dark stays ever m my heart.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIRL.


fM
'
3
'
AT
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCNOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane. rnnirnDh WEST M t wil
N.Z. Office—93-107 I'eatlierston Street. Wellington. LUIM/UKll nCOI, IX. O. TfALbd
Victorian Office—-“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO, LTD., Adelaide. S.A.
V
If
TTot everyone can stand the racket of
modern life, and so you see worn
faces, bent backs, In people who should
not know what illness means. Many
of these people think their misery is
due to constipation, indigestion, or
“nerves,” so they take purgatives,
anti-acids, aspirins, and steadily get
worse. What they need is vitamines!
Magic Cream of Yeast!
The great modern discovery is that
the brain, nerves, and blood need cer-
tain vital substances, without which
there must be aches, pains, weakness,
bad complexions, and ill-health! Yeast
contains these wonderful vitamines,
but yeast alone does not work at its
best! So Chemists developed “Cream
of Yeast”—the most powerful form
of Yeast-vitamines, made much more
effective by combination with other
vital health-giving agents. The re-
sults are afnazing! Headaches, dizzi-
ness, go in 4 minutes; indigestion in
3 minutes; periodical pains in 12
minutes; depression in 8 minutes; in-
fluenza within 15 hours. Blotched
skins clear, eyes brighten, lips red-
den. Lethargy goes; instead, the pace
quickens; work gees on with a smile!
Phenomenal— but Proven!
There is no theory about these wonderful
‘Cream of Yeast” vitamines; they will do
what is stated, or the trial will cost you
nothing. Simply get a package of “Cream
of Yeast” from your Chemist, Grocer, or
Store, and take as directed. If not sur-
prised and delighted at your new-found
health—return the empty bottle to the
Distributors, Amalgamated Laboratories,
Kembla Bldg.. Sydney, and get. your
money back ! Three sizes—1/11, 3/6 & 5/9.
But waste no time with plain or brewers’
yeast, or dead imported yeasts—be very
sure yon get. genuine “Cream of Yeast.”
Cream * Yeast
2Jf Tablets 1/11
J/S Tablets 3/6
fOR YOUTH!
m Tablets 5/9
J^PLUM
1A 2. O R
W:
%
Is
n
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 32/6 each.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Beal Ivory Handle . . . . 21/- ~
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Day PLUM Razor Sets:—
Black 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and keDt
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths; fin. and fin.
Post-paid Prices
V LUM Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6
each. Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST SYDNEY
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
AN IDEAL WINTER HOME. The most sheltered spot on the Harbor.
Incomparable for Comfort. Excellent Cuisine and Service. Private Beach
and Amphitheatre Baths. Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4\ Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast if required. Luncheons, Afternoon Teas, Dinners.
Delightful 25-minutes J trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012, 4 Lines.
I
■I WONDER,
PER.'
t WON-
I Wonder, how
M * /
*
That Problem never worries' me
rrC
rX
-V..
\
1.
/
A
r
\N
J
>
c
j
-y
/
&
/
hfjvfly
to
J THT?
INVINCIBLE
an
n
d
14/45 h.p. 6-Cyl. Tourer
EXTREME flexibility with
top gear performance of 3
to 60 m.p.h. Four-speed gear
box, right hand change, low
gear axle ratio necessitating
change of gear on steepest
bills only. Built for the
Britisher overseas who wants
a suitable high-class British
car at the right price.
Designed for Over-
seas conditions with
4 fit. 8 in. track/'J in.
ground clearance,
special springing
special radiator and
fan to ensure perfect
performance on the
roughest roads or
tracks, and in the
hottest climates. Ex-
perts and owners all
over the world con-
firm that in the 14/45
six-cylinder model
we have the finest
Talbot Car that has
ever been produced.
Full particulars from
SYDNEY:
Buckle Motors, Ltd.,
187-189 William Street.
ADELAIDE:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street.
MELBOURNE:
Talbot Distributors Pty.,Ltd.,
478 Elizabeth Street.
PERTH:
Arthur Bales, Ltd.,
367 Murray Street.
ŵ
*
s c
{!>•' ,**
*•* .-••■
••' .-■■''A
•‘‘"i
* vr
c*VH?^


BASIC BALANCE
f; -
v^v..
4;
R
a
555
y/,
■m
m
m
■m
>4
W
m
m
/
MAI
m
a-'l
' k : k,'
*««
«# *
rJ %
m. i
The
TOURING MODEL
£565
The Roadster - - £565
The Saloon £640
Five Balloon Tyres and Tubes
Standard Equipment.
Warranted for
One Year.
ẁ
20
BASIC Balance proportions braking to speed. Thus in the 20-60 Vauxhall Six
the owner never experiences that critical moment when it is found that
braking power is insufficient for quick control of the car. The brakes of the
20-60 Vauxhall will bring the car to a standstill in an amazingly short distance,
smoothly, sweetly, with a slight foot pressure. Vauxhall brakes are masterly in
design. Their power is calculated, not guessed; thus their action can be clearly
stated. They will bring the car to a standstill.
Frictionlessly operated, perfectly balanced, their power proportioned to weight
and to 60 m.p.h. and more, they are always there.
Vauxhall
jfe Car of Basic Balance, *
Metropolitan Distributors:
MELBOURNE: Barlow Motors Pty., Ltd., 20-28 Latrobe Street
SYDNEY: Boyd Ed'kins, Ltd., 109-119 Phillip Street.
BRISBANE: Metropolitan Motors, Ltd., Adelaide Street.
ADELAIDE: Mann’s Motors, Ltd., 71-79 Franklin Street.
PERTH: E. D. Toe Motors, Ltd., 772 Hay Street.
throughout Australia by GENERAL MOTORS (AUS.) PTY., LTD.
