

m
&
¥
r-w.
ti
re ■'
fc«3
1
83
SR
*?r .
»
i
«
.•'*
aae
%=?S
ss
m
■^y,.
:::.
v-'
W
a#
\
r
£D*2
?>S£ks
&3£&
S 3
4773
&
llv*-*
It*
%
:-'.■(
•k
k
'7
5&
ft
/s
WRLlfff
Iftßome
27
** HATS
NONE GENUINE
WITHOUT
ftfie BRAND.
AUSTRALIAN
«^,MADE
The Bulletin
dfahrvu ~to su4s\xiltxu 7ast, $Z
Vol. 49.—N0. 2530.
Wednesday, August 8, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


W/'E have an inquiry for copy of “Across
Australia,” Spencer and Gillen.
Price and condition to Fredc. Cockington,
29 Gay’s Arcade, Adelaide.
'■THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
1928 is now ready, and will be for
warded with full particulars and terms on
application to
DYMOCIi’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Some men go laughing all their lives,
Though wed to whining, peevish wives,
Their sense of humor is too bright
To lose life’s laughter in its flight.
Such men catch coughs and colds, of course;
But naught can gloom their glad resource.
They sneeze; then laugh ; then ease assure
With W'oods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
Learn
Story Writing
THis Booß FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPpN.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit a *
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
EARN WHILE YOU LEARN
«off for tlloSe who know how t 0 P ut their ideas into
MiUJfi-siOßy FORM. For a most practical Correspondence Course
WRITE TO—
METROPOLITAN BUSINESS COLLEGE, LTD.,
338 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
dfs
Is illness in
the house I
ii so, send to-day for a copy
of Benger’s Booklet, post free.
This will help you with the
problem of giving the patient a
change of food.
Among the contents are recipes
for the preparation, with Benger s
Food, of dainty dishes which
relieve the monotony of plain milk
diet, so trying to invalids.
Benger’s Booklet is so full of
interest that even if you have no
invalid in the house you should
send for a copy and keep it safely.
Benger’s Food is not only very
highly nutritious, but gives relief
from the distress and nervous
debility caused by indigestion.
Benger's Food is sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
Invalid Recipes in booklet,
post free from Benger’s Food, Ltd., 350, George St., Sydney.
Sole Manufacturers ßenger’s Food, Ltd., Otter Works, Manchester, England.
•'•’ST
I
QAGSHAWS
\ASTHMA
POWDER i
w
ASTHMA POWDER
(2/6 Ali Chemists)
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Post Free, 2/9, from The
Ltd., Sydney.
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital ........... £lOO,OOO T , Directors:
[.....j r-'. -, i f Aa John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
ssued Capital 49,161 y?, G, Woodier, Esq.; S. J. Goulston, Esq.;
Paid-up Capital 30,234 R. G. H. Joseland, Esq.
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax.
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will cuote you price for the original:
CSIEY
HAIIR
WOULD
SPOIL
IT#
\
V°
\e®
*-W e ,
SW
tt\^ e
iV e
->!?»■
*eV;
0& e
w e ?
e*>
»P
«S*
/Ap
WAINUT
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
WHAT CAUSES
BAD STOMACHP
Some say “ acid,” but that’s only half
an answer, for “ what causes the acid ? ”
Many things upset the stomach; acid
merely results from the upset. That’s why
anti-acids fail. That’s why Para-Pepsin
gives lasting relief ! For Para-Pepsin not
only stops the acid, but the cause of the
acid. Hence quick relief —real, sweet peace
to your poor angry stomach ! Para-Pepsin
is a common-sense remedy to doctors, but
ordinary folk have a childish faith in soda
and bismuth-magnesia, though anyone who
compares results says Para-Pepsin is much
the best for upset stomach. Its cost is
small, too, and any chemist can recom-
mend it.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE . . 3d.
Contains everything a icoman needs to know.
HUDSON’S Eumentho! Jujubes
and Sore Throats.
CAUTION.—The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers. Hudson’s
Eumenthol .Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
0
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. Th e Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
B. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
The Red Page
Gold!
[The writer is one of the judges who for the past
10 weeks or more have been steadily reading through
the 542 entries in Tub Bulletin’s first Prize Novel
Competition.]
It is not as a critic, but rather as a
gold-digger, that I have to stop here half-
way through the day’s work and shout bois-
terously that this is the true metal. As a
critic, I suppose I should say that its
range is narrow and its males effeminate.
There are other faults, too, that I should
mention, and possibly when I read it again
—as I mean to do—l shall find still more,
and some additional merits. But for the
present I am satisfied to shut my eyes and
whoop. I have come upon it. as I imagine
a gold prospector must come upon his gold.
Here have I been turning over yards and
yards of earth; I have been excited at tapes
and have eagerly followed the promise that
turns to dust and ashes; for hours and
days on end I have turned over uninterest-
ing and sometimes revolting dirt without
glimpsing a hint of anything worth having.
And now, unexpectedly, I have in my hands
a beautiful, an exciting nugget! It is pos-
sible that to-morrow I may find it is pinch-
beck. Even if I do not, there is such a
long way to go yet before the claim is
worked over, that perhaps other nuggets
will be discovered that will make it seem
almost a little thing. But now I am not
troubling about anything of that. At least
this one effort in The Bulletin Novel
Competition seems at present so good that
I am tempted to start at once and read it
over again. And that is saying much, very
much indeed.
Its writer has fashioned a novel that is
interesting and beautiful. By interesting
I mean that it goes firmly from incident to
incident, without halting, without going dead
or flat; climbing steadily to an end that is
an end under the sure control of the
author. By beautiful I mean that it is
aesthetically exciting and satisfying. It is
an accurate and, within its limits, a strong
criticism of life. Here I want to be par-
ticularly careful not to give a false impres-
sion. I think that the person who set out
deliberately to write a novel, that would be
a ci’iticism of life would probably end by
constructing what some of these manu-
scripts are —elaborate and futile tracts. Per-
haps it would be better to say that every
novel should, be a picture of life (not a
photo), and to add that every picture is
a criticism; if the painter achieves the im-
pression of truth, he makes a criticism of
life; if he does not, his painting is a criti-
cism of him.
The criticism that many of these manu-
scripts make of their authors is that they
have neglected to learn that writing even
the conventional stories most of them
attempt is an exacting craft that must be
somewhat studied. It is, however, an un-
questionable though curious truth that a
man who would not dream of attempting
to make such a comparatively simple thing
as a kitchen chair without some knowledge
of the how, will sit down complacently on
that very chair and fire away at making
a novel without having even attempted at
any time to read one critically. There seem
to be more fallacies indulged about the
profession of words than about any other.
How few reach the age of 20 without having
entertained conceits of poetic ability!
How few can write a paragraph that can
be grabbed by a joyous sub-editor and
sent in its raw state to the printer! I do
not wish to suggest that a prose style is
important in a novel; as a matter of fact,
it is extremely rare, and some of the greatest
novels written have scarcely a glimmer of
it. But I do suggest that truth is essen-
tial-literary truth. That which is unbeliev-
able is bad. “Does it convince?” is the
acid test. Well, this novel—and it is not
the only one—convinces me, and it excites
me also.
Alas, and of course naturally, the majority
do neither, for the reason which I have
mentioned, that the writers have sat on
that kitchen chair which they would not
have dared to make. But it would be a
very blind one indeed who was not aware
of the outstanding, shining virtue in this
truly astonishing response to The Bul-
letin’s invitation —the courage of every
one of the respondents. That they would
not dare to attempt that kitchen chair does
not make this assertion illogical. Good, bad,
beautiful, vulgar, convincing or extrava-
gantly improbable, every one of them is a
great evidence of courage. Think of sitting
down to write a story of 80,000 words—most
of them are about that—of having to create
a host of people, make them walk and ride
and talk and breathe and eat and live,
get them into difficulties (which is plot)
and out of them (which is solution); think
of the almost deathly certainty that some or
all of them will get out of control and want
to run the show; think of all that and a
thousand other things—and shudder! It is
all very well to say, plot out your story
carefully first and then write it. You try!
If you get past 20,000 words without running
against a couple of dead ends and into
several tangles, you are not a mere writer,
you are a genius and you may laugh heartily
at my apprehensions on your behalf, and
I shall not be annoyed. No; you can plot
out your short story and then go to it; the
short story is lyric fiction; the novel, epic.
In one fine burst, under the influence of a
mental excitement, you may write that
lyric; you will not do the epic without long
and difficult and arduous work. That is it
—work! And work that demands a great
and an enduring courage.
And so I do not iaugli at even the
thoroughly dreadful in this writing. I
feel sad about it, and especially sad because
I see so much good material wasted. It
is amazing how many of these novels follow
the pattern of the long-dead (thank
Heaven!) and conventional fiction of the
eighties and ’nineties and the early part
of this century. Why must a hero be
so .elaborately perfect? Why must dialogue
be stilted? What people on earth outside
the curious race that exists in Parliaments
talk from 50 to 500 words whenever they
open their mouths? I suggest that these
and other defects of the kind are simple
faults that the reading of a dozen good
modern novels should greatly rectify. But
those novels would have to be read; they
would not want to be raced through.
There are other matters, among them the
fact that a fair sprinkling of these stories
are of the gold-digging days, or are other-
wise historical. But Scott, who made the
historical novel, seems to have set up his
models in vain. Come nearer home. Even-
other week in The Bulletin J. H. M.
Abbott, a master of this kind of writing,
is giving lessons in the art of handling
the historical setting. And what is the
secret of his art? That he does not go
and skim through some historical records
whenever he wants to write a story, but
simply that. ho> has so saturated himself
with his period that when he picks up his
pen to write about it, he himself is living
back there with Ensign Calder and the rest
of ’em.
And I seem to have wandered a long way
from my nugget.
CECIL MANN.
“Cheerful Yesterdays”
This is the book of Oscar Thorwald
Johann Alpers, who came to Maoriland as
a little solemn-faced Danish boy of eight
and died as a Judge of the Supreme Court.
It could easily have been called “Come
Down South.” it is such an unanswerable
piece of immigration propaganda. The
capital of the Alpers family when they
landed in Maoriland, knowing no word of
English, was £l4. The father was a dreamer,
a misfit in pioneering conditions. Alpers
himself was earning his living at the age
of 12 as a pupil teacher, and contrived to get
for himself a University education, at the
same time doing what was necessary to
keep his folks going. With coaching, help-
ing at night schools and odd journalistic
jobs he managed along until he became a
teacher at the Boys’ High School. There
he remained until he was 38, when he
entered the law.
So far the story sounds like a chapter from
the life of one of Dr. Smiles’s examples. But
the point is that the dazzling success which
attended him in each fresh venture came
in spite of the fact that he contradicted
all the maxims of conduct recommended by
the books. As a schoolmaster he got un-
stinted adoration from us because he com-
bined. an irrepressible boyish larkiness with
an impressive scholarship. He was a con-
firmed after-dinner speaker, the best Maori-
land has ever had. He was an excellent
actor, a dangerous wit, and no one could
predict his viewpoint upon any subject, or
his judgment of any man. His principal
trouble when the appointment to the
Supreme Court Bench was offered to him
was, to use his own words—“ Might I still
behave, and occasionally misbehave, as that
beloved worldling Elia did?” He solved
it by remembering that he had never
bothered . about his personal dignity as a
schoolmaster, but had still managed his
boys. “I determined therefore to be very
jealous of the dignity of my office and to
let my personal dignity take care of itself.”
This is a book. It was written in haste,
in the shadow of death. It is utterly can-
(Continued on page 5.)


“Truth in Advertising” is your protection at all times.
Anthony Horderns'
USE OUR “D.P.S.”
During the Sale.
The advantage is. obvious. Our
Famous Low Prices are genuinely
reduced during this great event. By
selecting your requirements now,
and paying a small deposit, you
secure benefits that will not be
available later on. Our Deposit-
Purchase System is the most con-
venient shopping method of all, and
no extra or interest whatsoever is
charged. Goods chosen will be
carefully stored until fully paid for,
and then delivered in the usual way.
Use it now, for our genuine Sale
finishes on Saturday, August I 1.
GEN
imaa
lit
aii
Ny-
HOly
1:9
!S»
mm
wm
IMSifc"!
*S#S
#B#
!«l SB
(111
Jlillylblli!)
WII
>i»
BBS#
m
sV^'
is**
STO
«r i
Primus Stove, 13/6
The Primus Atmospheric Stove-
Burns without a wick. Gives a
greater heat than any other stove.
Boils a quart of water in three min-
utes. Broils chops to perfection.
Makes toast better than any other
stove. Simmers beautifully, and
people who understand cooking
know the importance of these fea-
tures. Costs less than a farthing
per hour. Noisy. Price
15/-. Reduced to .
13/6
a-
Silent. Price 16/6.
Reduced to
15/-
Self-Heating Iran.
The “Imperial” Self-Heating Iron
saves energy. The heat is uniform,
nd one pennyworth of petrol will
o three hours ironing. Simple
directions given with each
“Imperial.” Price 32/-
Reduced to
29|-
Sale Concludes on Saturday, 11th August.
ORDER Now—and save considerably
BiSSS.If&StSSa
£33 Corn Planters £3O
John Deere’s No. 999 Two-Row Corn Planters.
This accurate variable corn (beans, peas, etc.)
planter has variable edge drop, with check
Rower and Drill-automatic Marker. Adjust-
able 32 inches to 48 inches.
£33 Reduced to
Price
£3O
iff
The Coleman Quick-Lite
Lamp is built on graceful
and attractive lines, and
furnished with a White
Opal Panelled Shade. The
light is of 300 candle-power,
brighter than electric light.
There is no wick to trim, no
globe to wash, no grease,
no smoke, no soot. Burn 3
benzine, and lights with a
match, without having to
look for a swab, torch or
alcohol. An extra Genera-
tor is supplied with each
lamp. Price 75/
Reduced to . .
70
“Wiard” Spading Harrows. For work on stony
ground and on new cleared ground where
there are roots and stumps, the “S” -shaped
blades offer less resistance than those of any
rotary Harrow, and do effective work where
no other will prove satisfactory. We stock the
following sizes:—
Sets of Size of
FORE CARRIAGE (57/6 EXTRA.
gsdf
Genuine Weed Non-Skid Chains
Note These Big Reductions.
At ordinary times our prices for these Weed Chains are far below those ruling else-
where. During our Genuine Sale all prices have been further reduced until now an
opportunity is presented such as will never occur again. These Chains are strongly
and perfectly made, and will not rust.
CARRIAGE EOT PAID OE ANY GOODS IE THIS ADVERTISEMENT.
Anthony Horderns'
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


xr
%
L y,
fsvo
s.PHOM^i
VSOOtjJ
sjditJ uoidwreii3 sppoM^
\ x A
Squadron-
Commander
C. Kingsford Smith
Flight-Lieutenant
C. T. P. Vim.
the land, as in the air, Squadron-Commander C. Kingsford
Smith and Flight-Lieutenant C. T. P. Ulm call for power,
speed, stamina and instantaneous response in an engine.
These considerations led them to select Studebaker’s mighty
President Straight Eight with its 100 horse-power engine—
the unrivalled leader in beauty, power, strength, distinction
and value.
The President Straight Eight recently ran 2,000 miles in 1,654
consecutive minutes, an average speed of 72.525 m.p.h. Because
of Studebaker’s advanced engineering you can drive The
President Straight Eight forty miles an hour the day you take
delivery—later at 80 miles an hour, while oil and grease
changes are necessary only once every 2,500 miles.
To-day, more than ever before, motorists who want a really
fine car and know how much they should pay for it, are
making their selection from the Studebaker line of Fine
Quality Cars .
Follow the example of these two intrepid fliers—choose a car
you can trust under all conditions.
Erskine Models from £315 to £448
Director Models from £4lB to £568
Commander Models from £528 to £628
President Models from £698 to £B6O
All new Models equipped with shark absorbers,
bumper bars and jour-wheel brakes.
PRICES F.O.R. SYDNEY.
Squadron-Commander C. Kingsf ord-Smith and
Flight-Lieutenant C. T. P. Ulm, with their gallant
comrades Warner and Lyon, staggered the world
by their brilliant Trans-Pacific flight, the most
wonderful feat in aerial history—a triumph of or-
ganisation and ability, made possible by careful
attention to detail and a complete knowledge of
all the finer points essential in their machine.
WMB96.
5
Studebaker is the only
car to hold at the one
time every Australian
and American Speed
and Endurance Record
I for both closed and
open cars, regardless oi
power or price.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors ;
NEW SOUTH WALES.
The Studebafer Corporation of Australasia Limited,
4-16 YURONG STREET, SYDNEY (just behind the Museum).
VICTORIA.
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd.,
41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.)> Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.,
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important towns*
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Millingens, Limited,
42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Adams, Ltd., 152-154 High Street,
Christchurch.


Tweeds & Flannels
GREYHOUND, SMOKE BLUES,
COPPER BEECH BROWNS
sd
These will be the fashionable suit
weaves this Summer —ever popu-
lar Tweeds, free-and-easy Flan-
nels. And men will like the new
shades —Greyhound, Smoke Blue,
Copper Beech Browns and Scotch
mixtures.
The new season’s fabrics have just arrived and they’re
as good a range as ever we’ve seen. They give us an
exceptional opportunity of making some really smart
Suits, and will be worthy of all the infinite care we
put in our tailoring.
MADE - TO - MEASURES
8, 9 & 10 gns.
DAVID JONES’
Castlereagh, Market & Elizabeth Sts. Branch Men’s Store, opp. G.P.O.
did, and under the stern test of its read-
ing by those of us who knew him, it is a
complete self-revelation. It is more, how-
ever, than the self-portraiture of a rich and
unique personality. It is a cross-section o
Maoriland life and social development, in
style and content it is the equal oi any
book of memoirs that I have ever met,
Alpers’s classical erudition was enormous,
and his fund of yarns had no end. There
are fresh and authentic legal stories m it
by the dozen. There is a wonderfully
written account of the Hall murder case,
a chapter devoted to correspondence with
Samuel Butler, and a finely ironic defence
of juries. However, it is so full of good
things that selection is foolish.
The importance to Maorilanders of the
book is that for once a widely loved and
extraordinary man has got between covers. I
doubt if ever a man dwelt in Maoriland
who had a wider friendship. His last six
months of illness was almost a lying Ul
state. No one passing through Wellington
failed to look him Up. No day passed that
lie failed to produce at least one good fresh
jest. His two years on the bench were
triumphant. Two of his judgments are
classics of diction, pungent humor and
legal learning, and, if he had lived, the
Maoriland Law Reports would have been
a mine of riches rare in any part of the
world. He had that sense of showmanship
without which he told me no man was
entirely interesting. It is seldom that a man
of his gregariousness, a talker, a “card,”
can get himself down on paper. It is done,
though. Which means that it is a great
book, for he was a great man,
O.N. GILLESPIE.
Memories of Ellen Terry
I knew her in her heyday, when she was
in the full enjoyment of fame. And she
did enjoy it. Her personality was always
attractive, for she overflowed with life,
though when she was tired she could be as
iazy as a salamander, and she loved to
bask in the sun on a green lawn at the back
of a tiny cottage in one of the dullest
villages of sleepy old Sussex. I have seen
her rushing about London dressed in gay
clothes, her long legs striding wide—almost
leaping with activity—and I have seen her
lying on a lounge in her garden at Firth
Cottage, Winchelsea, looking as if she ex-
pected to be carried to her meals. But
even at her laziest, there was always a
twinkle in her pale blue eyes and a smile
on her wide mouth.
She loved her little two-storey cottage
on the side of the hill on which the little
village was built by Henry 11., when the
ancient Winchelsea was drowned in the sea,
now some three miles away. The cottage
overlooked the steep road from that other
old town, Rye, haunt of artists and novel-
ists to this day.
I read one day lately that she left Firth
Cottage in anger and bought a country
home at Tenterden (some 13 miles distant)
because two old maids who lived in a
cottage overlooking her home objected to
her dancing on her lawn in her nightgown at
early dawn. She was quite capable of
doing that, but to my knowledge (and I
knew every man, woman, child and dog in
AVinchelsea and Rye in those days of the
’eighties) there were no two old maids liv-
ing together and no cottage that could have
overlooked her lawn; besides, it was en-
closed in trees and shrubs.
Ellen Terry was always a puzzle, even to
those who knew her well, for she was rather
unstable, though always very amiable—ex-
cept when she was angry, and then she could
be highly explosive. But it was her appear-
ance that was the enigma. Her dear old
friend Charles Reade once said to her.
“Nellie, how is it that such an ugly girl
as you can be so beautiful?” She was not
short, but she gave an impression of being
a fairy; she had square shoulders, a flat
chest, sharp knees, a wide stride, flat feet,
largish hands, a square face with very wide
mouth, thin lips, a tip-tilted nose, pale
straw-colored hair (usually looped up any-
how) and pale eyes. Yet she exuded femi-
nine charm at every point, and on the stage
was the most fascinating and feminine be-
ing imaginable.
Her voice was not melodious, but it was
a vocal instrument capable of the most
subtle and haunting cadences; in her singing
voice she had only three notes and they
were almost inaudible, but she sang her little
plaintive song in “The Cup” (Tennyson’s
two-scene play) so sweetly that she made
people weep.
EDWARD A. VIDLER.
The Spiritual Home
In The Montjorts (Constable; Dymock’s)
Martin Mills has, I think, the widest and
truest view of the Australian scene yet set
on paper. He begins in England with
Henry Montfort, who, not seeing in London
scope for his law business, decides early in
the nineteenth century to bring his wife
arid family to Melbourne. One of the con-
tributory causes of this migration is the
presence of Henry’s elder brother, Simon, in
Australia as a vigorous and successful pas-
toralist. The Montforts are an old family
descended from a cousin of Simon de
Montfort, and still socially important if
only moderately so financially.
In Melbourne Henry and his wife help
to found the spacious “colonial” life impos-
sible in England. This is, at first, no more
than a sunnier and fresher English society;
but with the generations (and the gold-
rush) it gradually realises that the nature
of the heroic work to be done here will not
tolerate an idle importation from a land
whose heroic work is done. In each genera-
tion there is a slight difference, a gradual
hardening of the spirit whose job is to
build up this newest of the nations. The
well-bred, upright Montforts, as the money
and stability increase, go back to Europe
to realise their longing for the things their
tastes and emotions have missed; but in
the end those that are needed by Australia
and have the pluck to acknowledge it come
back to the spiritual home made for them
by old Simon and old Henry. This may
not have the hallowed ease, the bloom of
tradition; it may even lack some of the
idlenesses that have come to be called
graces; but it is the home of the spirit,
the only place where the man can be him-
self and therefore happiest.
This theme is not rubbed in by any jin-
goism or blatancy; the book is as well-bred
as Henry Montfort. You are not even
sure, until you have turned the last page,
that the author has realised this important
truth. But there it is when you have fin-
ished the harsh, stimulating Australian
story of these Montforts. I say “harsh”
because his style is harsh and vivifying, like
eucalyptus, and as pungent—he has here in
350 pages the sympathetic history of every
member of three generations of Montforts.
The theme emerges naturally, as it must
emerge from the faithful recording of the
truth.
All these Montforts are beautifully done.
The people walk through the years, old age
after youth, death, childhood after old age,
youth, old age, death again, and childhood
again, making the passing years seem no-
thing, as in the history of a nation. They
march on, all vivid, all alive in their sor-
row and rejoicing, ill their hopes and
dreanrs; beside them Australia marches on
too. Some slip out and are lost in exclu-
sive streets in London or in English
country-houses, hobnobbing for a time with
the distractions they think they have
missed; they come back and join up again.
The banks fail, and Henry cuts things
down to the minimum, but keeps on work-
ing, finding himself a bit more contented
on the minimum than he had believed pos-
sible. He becomes a judge and is offered a
knighthood, taking it as a gratifying part
of his fine job; he is offered a baronetcy
and refuses it, as no part of his Australian
job. The boys and girls feel their way into
the scene, some in scorn, some determined
to succeed, some politely accepting any
gift of life, some in self-pity. (These last
vanish and do not again join up.) They
marry, multiply and die, their sons and
daughters taking their places in the line,
each a little surer of the Australian rhythm,
a little clearer and firmer in mind.
One thing beats them all, except those
who are oafish: work on the land. That
really can’t be tackled in Australia in the
Montfort manner. In the end Raoul, a
dilettante poet who has escaped from these
Melbourne people, is sucking up the graces
of life in Florence. He has been through
the war, endured the monotony of doing
nothing but derivative verse in Melbourne,
and is rather wondering what it all means.
But here in Florence he achieves suddenly
that stiffening of the spirit, that harsh
beauty, in the arms of his cousin Mad-
eleine, whose mother vanished from the
marching line years and years ago. He
writes to the Melbourne Montforts that he
is coming home with his bride and is going
to start work on the land.
There is nothing that I feel I can say
worthily about this book as letters; my
pleasure in it as Australian history is too
fervent for my mind to descend to mere
technique and vision. Nothing I have read
since Australia has been my spiritual home
has impressed me so much.
HILARY LOFTING.
A Satchel of Books
The Australian Ski Year Book for 1928,
edited by Percy Hunter (Sydney and Mel-
bourne Publishing Co.). An attractive and
well-illustrated volume crammed with par-
ticulars of a sport which very few people
imagine has an existence in Australia. The
photographs of the snow-covered mountain
heights of South-Eastern Australia should
act as a useful corrective to the general
impression abroad that this country is a sun-
blasted and drought-stricken land. The first
volume of what is intended to be an annual
publication.
Seiji Noma, Magazine King of Japan (Dai
Nippon Yubenkwai Kodansha, Tokyo). Seiji
is Nippon’s Ilearst or Northcliffe. As a boy
he was “fond of fighting; he thrashed many
people and drank much sake, imagining that
he was a hero in some Oriental melodrama,
and he fell in love with women whom he
had no business to love.” He also “believed
in greatness.” When he grew up he dis-
covered that the Japanese “have an inex-
haustible capacity for reading magazines, a
capacity which can yet be exploited.” He
exploited it, with the result that now, of
the 1000 magazines published in Japan, he
is guilty of 700, and his readers are esti-
mated at over 10,000,000. He teaches them
to “serve the Emperor, be perfect in morals,
faithful to friends, honest in work, strong
in will, and valorous in fighting, and his
magazines are full from end to end of stories
of heroes of all sorts and descriptions.” He
is also a “reckless believer in the new doc-
trine that advertising pays and acts on it.”
He spent 100,000 yen in boosting a single
issue of one of his periodicals. Another
“conviction that grew on him was that one
of the essentials of greatness in this era is
the ability to speak well,” and he acted on
that. It all sounds beautifully familiar.
Answers to Correspondents.
Vo 00(7-00 (except o/ o lojHfc chnncter) %‘“'/oV-VVo “”SS“«to* r T'cMrtbiumS «•<«»■
Tangaloli: A great deal depends upon the
supply. A plum you’d pick one year you wouldn’t
touch the next....A.D.W.: Some announcement
should be made prior to Sept. 5; but when
depends entirely on the judges. .. .Penman: It is
in the hands of the judges, who say that no entry
is definitely eliminated until the final decision is
come t 0.... J.L.H.: Hopelessly verbose.... Sawdoc:
Thanks; all the same, he writes to say he managed
quite we 11... .P.K.P.: “Coming of the R'ain” too
watery.... Zounnerlock: It finds no favor....
R.G.L.T.: A desperate struggle for the humor....
R 0!.H.: Balanced on the edge, but fell outwards.
. ...A.H.P.: “Tide—imply”—you hero !... .H.M.G.:
Glad to hear from you again, even though you miss
this time... .Thos. M.: Statement that your navvy
intends to get drunk noted without surprise....
Neuter: You go a long way round for your pun
Jenie: No appetite for the poultry.... Boon: Poor
jest in one; the other challenges “The Wild Colonial
Boy” E.R.R.: Not bad; but don’t spin them out
so long Yufu: Too obstetric E. 0.: Doesn’t
quite get a grip, though interesting here and there.
....Peter M.: Spoilt by crudities and verbiage....
Ben G.: Can’t find a port for it.,. .F.S.McN.: Awful
stuff Scrib: Hysterical Alex. C. J.: His sweet-
heart sang to him, and he got better. And that’s
all there is in it... .Irene W.: Not far off. .. .M.R.:
Flops... .P.P.: Nice idea in “Roses” ; but no bouquet
for your handling of it... .8.J.M.: Your drunk fell
downstairs... .L.L.L.: Admire your confidence about
getting to Heaven.... Gar G.: Tailoring item doesn’t
suit.... Ron C.: Anyone who can’t tell the difference
between a dead dog and a live one shouldn’t keep
a pub.... Bock: You mistook “Mistaken Identity”
for verse... .J.A.W.: No meal in your dietary item.
Bellerive: Room for your “Smugglers”: —
Pursued by water police o’er the breast of the bay,
Four fugitive smugglers, at close of day,
In desperation did battle in an open boat
Against wind and rain to keep their craft afloat.
“We’re but a mile,” exclaimed their leader, “from
shore.
Stick to It, lads, our reign’s not o’er.”
When shots rang out and a youth, named Lee,
Fatally hit, expired on he’s father’s knee.
Stricken with grief at the death of he’s son.
“Swim!” gasped the smuggler, “your old pal is
done!” . . „ ,
“Jim and I,” said the leader, are loyal and true;
We’ll surrender and face the law with you.”
John H.: A rambling tale, and hardly believ-
able 5.A.C.8.; The same old idea expressed in
the same old way J.T.H.: It has been trembling
on the brink; you will hear J.8.W.: We like
pork, but not your pig Custos: No gold in it. .
Wayfarer; Your call to arms might be all right if
there was anything to shoot Jimmy P.: She
empties your pockets, eh? Well, what are wives
for?... .E.J.S.: The lie needs to be brief. And
don’t write with ink-and-water A.C.A.D.H.: Some
very weak rhyming... .A.8.C.: “Yellow Leaves”
were swept out Boondooma: Eight rounds too
many for that scrap.... Matt L.: These dinner stories
make us hungry for something g00d.... .Ma R.:
No job for your “Housekeeper” Leslie H. R.:
Merely dull Mon. M.: If you had sent the whole
domestic ledger the story would have been more
interesting....Har-mon: You telegraph warning of
your punches... .G.A.P.: Your longing to be an echo is
noted. To some extent you are... .A.J.H.: Tedious.
Lew W. •It gets so dreary G.H.8.R.: Hy-
ing'to make us blush? P.L.S.: The way you put
the commas in leaves us in a state of coma. ..
GJ H • The bird could not be as monstrous as he
story about it. .. .W.S.T.: It doesn’t scale the
heights R.G.; Even if the printed verse is origi-
nal it’s only a Titbits item A.M.0.: Sad pun-
ning L.G.G. (Capetown) : Can’t fit it in P.L.M.:
“I have sold similar stories to six other journals. It
seemed familiar, somehow.... Chare.: your
“Ploughman”... .Peggy G.: The quality of Mercy
is overstrained.... D.D.0.: “It’s true -damnably
true, alas!” Damnably trite, a150....8ri: Shock-
ing! B.B.: Balloon yarn exploded Hugh G.:
Strange how many dry yarns start with two men
drinking J.1.D.: The hope of “rapture fairer yet ’
shows the pure artificiality of your “Grief Called
Life”... .E.A.8.: The ghost-ship went down....
W.T.W.: Neither appeals.... Soames: Try to polish
it Ivor V. : Doesn’t attract J.E.T. The hop-
step-and-jump method of scansion won’t do. And
what a line is “Proclaiming evermore life’s will to
joy, and joy’s replenitude invincible”!... .M.R.A.:
Nearly Bernard A.: The “hung—come” rhyme was
not a bloom but a bloomer... .E.M.R.: It’s the first
blossom, but it’s a very poor bud Art. G.:
Altogether too slight P. 8.: Your chicken dinner
wan no feast for us. .. .8.E.8.: Hardly a crumb of
humor in your crusty bachelor—. Romeo: Nearly
200 words to describe how you kissed the
girl R.8.P.: Naughty! Kenn : Story doesn’t
quite get there B 2: A rambling statement of
facts—not a Jstory P.J.1.: “Elusive Fortune”
escapes publication. .. .E.M.J.: “Hobart Water-
works in Spring” is as uninspired as its title
D.8.0’C.: The spider doesn’t bite us for anything.
D.O.L.: Rotten as the cheese W.G.-H.: The
conclusion isn’t easily enough followed.... Burdett:
But surely you didn’t suppose that Cecil Mann
was serious... .W.T.W.: Now is it possible that the
ex-sergeant would have carried the incriminating
document around with him?... .8.A.J.: AY ell enough
done; but we ar e not buying misery unless it is
very fresh misery... .L.T.L.: Just missed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.H.R.: Your gag wouldn’t raise a giggle in a
girls’ school V.K.: The joke is a version of one
that has been printed; the drawing is down-at-
heels... .P.E.; On its way home. ... J.G.: Joke a
possibility W.G.H.: Unattractive as to drawing;
strained as to humor C.L.: Sketch as dreadful as
the housewife’s threat... .E.R.8.: No place for them
here W.A.S.: You were forestalled years ago with
the tin-opener gag. The other is puerile G.L.:
Your drunk is also a decade behind with his wit. . . .
J.K.: Neither will do; impossible drawing
J.R.W.E.: There is a long road ahead of the lad—
the sketches sent show little promise... .L.F.G.8.:
Infantile efforts... .W.J.S.: No chance... .K.H.G.:
That joke wasn’t made in Australia.


9
,
it 'i :
1
mm \
... j
c.
n
■HMSHn
I
:
IBrl
liilißl
• ": ■■ ■
iM:
'
.
■
■:• ; V ; :
*


The Bulletin
Vol. 49. —No. 2530.
August 8, 1928.
THE DISMISSAL.
“The Kellogg Pact outlawing war will be signed in Paris on August 28.”
MARS: “Oh, very well, gentlemen, I’ll go; you’ll find me working in my new laboratory when you want me again.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbouunb Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
Brisbane Office : 249 Adelaide Street.
Perth Office : 33 Barrack Street.
Adelaide Office: 12 Evans Buildings, James Place.
London Office: 36 Southampton Street, Strand,
W. 0.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £ 1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6 id.; 3 months, 7s.
I'o any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Uusiness Communications to be addressed to thl
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Pox 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The liditor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding tivo columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded, as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
tvithout stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission ol HIS.
To Amateurs in Itlack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The liuiietin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in tile Main Hall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.4; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.4;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 43 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” 4H'l7 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son.
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban ;
Hhodesia News _ Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley ■ and
others.
Honolulu.— Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 I Vest Monroe Street, Chicago. New
\, orl f : Krentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
\°rk City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and 42nd Street. New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West 41st Street, New York City
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 704 Market Street. San Francisco;
H allace. The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News
Stand, 5414 South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Monarch News Agency, 115 West 6th Street, Los
Angeles, Cal.; Smith Bros.’ News Co., Box 573
Arcade Station, Los Angeles, Cal.; and from the
Barber on Union S.S. Co.’s and Matson Co.’s mail
boats .
Egypt.— Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Boole and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co.. 696 Redder Street.
Hong Kong. '
China.— Brewer and Co., St Nanking Road,
Shanghai , China .
Penang, S.S.. — 1(. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel; and from the Barber
on boats of K.P.M. Line.
Ceylon.— T. ,L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street.
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bookstall, Galle Face Hotel,
Colombo; M. Atmaram and Sons, 44 Chatham Street,
Fort Colombo; A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York
Street, Fort Colombo; The Colonial Photographic
Co., York Arcade, Fort Colombo.
Papua.— Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Mji.— A. Barker. Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Sura.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Goteh, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.4.
U.S ; A.—J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East Erie Street.
n . Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) :— Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
ld -, United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz„ lid.; each
additional 40z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 20z., Id.
iZT&xdZelm.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 8, 1928.
THE BRUPAGES AND SCULLIDORES.
The people of the Commonwealth have had
the Bruce-Page Government for 5| years
it dates from February 9, 1923—and it is
generally believed that they are going to
send it back for another term. Yet there
are signs that they would cheerfully dis-
pense with its services if a reasonable alter-
native were in sight. Clearly they do not
accept the high valuation which certain
Ministers place on these services ; enthu-
siasm for the Brupages is confined to
those who hang round party headquarters,
thankful for favors received or expectant
of favors to come. The Administration is
composed, for the most part, of worthy
persons who have succeeded in other walks
of life but reveal no particular aptitude for
public affairs; and it depends for support
mainly on a meek collection of products of
the pre-selection system who haven’t two
ideas in their heads.
* * * $
The Government, while not conspicuously
successful in its own sphere, has a weakness
for meddling in other people’s concerns and
for throwing money about accordingly. For
example, its Treasurer, visiting America on
a loan-hunting expedition or something of
the kind, learned that the Washington Gov-
ernment out of its overflowing Treasury
was helping State authorities with grants
for roads in regions served by privately-
owned railways. He returned to Australia
full of the great news, and, without consider-
ing that the circumstances were different in
very important respects, his Government
rushed into an agreement binding the Com-
monwealth to find £20,000,000, spread over 10
years, for road construction and mainten-
ance in the States. One consequence last
year was a Commonwealth deficit of
£2,642,000 mainly on account of these road
grants, to which the State Premiers have
now objected in principle. Another effect
has been increasingly successful motor
competition with the State Government
railway systems, five of which are losing
heavily; while there have been reports of
wanton waste in the expenditure of the easy
money, particularly in the direction of
packing doubtful electorates with alleged
road workers.
* * # *
The Prime Minister prides himself on
having taken “development” for his pro-
vince, meaning thereby all manner of public
works, fed with “migration loans,” in the
States. He would be much better occupied
m arresting the drift of the C.M.F.— in which
only three quotas are getting any sort of
training, although seven quotas are avail-
able, and the permanent staff has slumped
from 2774 in 1913 to 1750 last year—and in
giving proper attention to the claims of
Australian industry. Australian industry
had a good friend when H. E. Pratten
was Minister of Customs, but Pratten is
no more. Since his lamented death the
Prime Minister, already Minister of Exter-
nal Affairs, has taken the Customs portfolio
as well—he is supposed to be waiting to see
how T. J. Ley and A. G. Manning get on
at the polls before making another appoint-
ment—and the change has been for the worse.
Perhaps it was a case of overwrought nerves
when the gentleman told the members of
the Sydney Chamber of Commerce that they
didn’t understand the rudiments of Com-
monwealth finance; and the same theory
may account for Neville Howse’s explosion
of temper when he was forced into con-
ceding an appeals board in respect of mili-
tary pensions. Still, even the usually humble
Pearce, who has no department to look
after, has been talking in an arrogant strain,
by way of rebuking critics. So the trouble
may be merely the pride that goeth before
a fall.
* * * *
If there were an effective Opposition there
would certainly be a fall; but the Opposi-
tion is far from being effective. Plainly it
has learned nothing from its experience in
1925. Then it was called upon to choose
between the people in general and noisy
mobs who set up the claim that union law
was the supreme law and that they were en-
titled to hold up the whole sea-borne com-
merce of the nation if they felt that way
inclined. It didn’t know what to do, and
was routed accordingly. Now it has to
decide between the militants and the moder-
ates of its union organisation on the ques-
tion of alliances with Asiatics and Musco-
vites, involving the virtual surrender of the
White Australia policy. Again it is trying
to evade the issue, and this won’t be toler-
ated. And, of course, there are other
serious objections to Scullin’s party. It
complains of borrowing without promising
to stop it, objects to the excess of imports
without suggesting a remedy, has no use for
military training or for naval defence
except as a form of unemployed relief, and
talks utter nonsense about the nationalisa-
tion of credit and the socialisation of in-
dustry. Australia would accept a Labor
Government like that of 1910, but it won’t
accept a Scullin Government till Scullin
and his mates stand as firmly for White
Australia and for truly national finance,
fiscal and defence policies as the Fisher
party stood.
UNCLE SAM’S QUOTA SYSTEM.
Another curious instance of the thorough-
ness of the United States immigration law has
been reported in the case of an Australian
bride who chanced to find herself in receipt
of Uncle’s hospitality. She didn’t go to his
domain on purpose to marry; she merely
went there and married by accident. The
marriage of a white girl to a white man
evidently didn t confer on her any remote
claim to her husband’s nationality, and an
industrious department got busy at hunting
for an objection. It found that the Austra-
lienne, having come in as a casual visitor
on giving the usual security to leave, hadn’t
been included in the last quota of arrivals
from these parts. So she was promptly
ordered to leave; and whether she will get
back in the next annual quota will be shown
by the course of events.
* * * *
The United States immigration quota
system is full of interesting points. It
begins with a sort of lump sum; that is to
say, 40 States or fragments of States were
authorised in 1927 to send each 100 of their
people to the United States in a year.
Twenty-eight of these States are of assorted
coloring they include Afghanistan, Arabia,
China, Egypt, Ethiopia, India, Meso-
potamia, Japan, Liberia, Morocco, Nauru
(an island of about eight square miles just
south of the line in the Pacific), New
Guinea, Palestine, Samoa, Siam, Syria (in-
cluding Lebanon), Tanganyika and Yap, a
\ olcanio island in the Carolines. The other
12 countries are white, Maoriland and Ice-
land being on the same mark. The number
of persons admitted from any country is
supposed to bear some mathematical rela-
tionship to the number of persons from that
country who were in the republic at a basic
date; but apparently no one troubled to be
mathematical about the quota, and perhaps
no one wanted to be. No imaginable method
of calculation seems capable of putting
Japan and Yap on the same mark. The
rest of the figures might be taken to indi-
cate a desire to get out of the Anglo-Saxon
category of nations as definitely as possible:
Some United States Immigration Quotas (1927).
Germany .. .. 51,227 France .. . . 3,954
England, Scotland, Italy . . . . 3,845
Wales and Czechoslovakia. . 3,073
Northern Ireland 34,007 Denmark . . 2 789
Irish Free State.. 28,567 Russia .. .. 2,248
Sweden . . .. 9,561 Switzerland . , 2,081
Norway .. .. 6,453 Netherlands .. 1,648
Poland .. .. 6,982 Australia ~ 121
Ihe Irish Free State quota is so liberal
that it will depopulate that Dominion if
it is lived up to. Even if there was a back-
flow it would be a serious matter for one
country to take 28,567 immigrants in a year
from a little land where the excess of
births over deaths in 1926 was only 19,706.
Probably the United States has no expec-
tation of getting all these Irishmen, but
puts down the figure as a sign of friendship.
* * 3{s if:
The Commonwealth’s relations with its
copious neighbor in the north-east are not
very fortunate. In a list of 45 countries with
which Uncle Samuel does his principal
trade, Australia, with its handful of in-
habitants, is his seventh best customer, and
that is by Uncle’s own figures. At the
same time it ranks as low as 22nd among
the countries he buys from, his sales to us
being more than four times his purchases
from us. This may not be blameworthy
on his part, but it is amazingly foolish on
ours, and some uncompromising acts or
prohibitions in the tariff or quota line are
called for. The adverse balance of trade
which drives this feckless community to
floating abroad so many gold loans, on
which the payment of interest out of our
own resources appears as impossible as the
repayment of principal, is mostly due to
our dealings with Uncle. There is no ques-
tion of equity involved; the position is
simply that the Commonwealth can’t afford
to go bankrupt even to oblige the Gentle-
man with the Quota.
BROWN BROTHER OF THE PALMS.
Professor Radcliffe Brown, of Sydney,
recently expressed some opinions on the in-
vasion of the Pacific islands by white races,
and the result on the native populations,
which are at least open to criticism. The
Professor occupies the chair of anthropology,
and his conclusions on such a subject should
be entitled to respect. It is difficult to pre-
serve that attitude in the face of some of
his statements.
Particularly is this the case with respect
to those portions of the address which deal
with the administration of Papua, and New
Guinea, the condition of their native popu-
lation and its alleged “exploitation” by
company executives and shareholders, the
Professor being careful to explain that he
holds no brief against the white “residents.”
Quite as surprising is his statement that,
when the Commonwealth Government
assumed the administration of Papua and
New Guinea, “it did so in the face of objec-
tions .by the British Government.” The
Professor does not quote his authority for
this curious assertion. Other challengeable
statements are that, unless investigation can
suggest a means of arresting the depopula-
tion, indigenous native labor will soon be a
thing of the past, and the islands will be
over-run by cheap labor from Asia.
The Pacific is a large matter, and it will
save space to deal specifically with the
Professor’s references to Papua and New
Guinea, which he has singled out for special
attention. A passing reference to the de-
population of the Pacific generally may,
however, be made. There is ample evidence
that of late years “depopulation” has been
fast becoming a myth. A recent and
authoritative work on the subject is “Popu-
lation Problems of the Pacific,” by S. H.
Roberts. It supplies very strong evidence
to support the theory that the tendency of
Pacific races is to decrease to a certain
point, and there remain stationary until a
gradual increase begins to show itself. In
Roberts’s own words: “We find that in
the Pacific of to-day there is a retarded rate
of decline in most groups, a stationary
population in many, and in some a positive
increase.”
As to Papua and New Guinea particu-
larly, the ascertained facts do not support
the Professor. In the latest annual report
on Papua, Lieut.-Governor Hubert Murray
is definite that the population is increasing,
As to New Guinea, it is impossible to say
of that portion which is still a no man’s
land whether the population is stationary
or otherwise. In the settled and adminis-
tered portions, retardation at least has been
achieved. This result is largely due to the
vigorous and widespread campaign of free
medical treatment now proceeding among
the native population -both there and in
Papua. The native suffers, not only from
diseases introduced by the whites, but from
many unpleasant afflictions of his own.
There has been a most encouraging response
to treatment in such cases during the short
period the scheme has been in operation,
and this must increase as time goes on.
Both Papua and New Guinea, the former
many years ago, founded their administra-
tion on the fact very belatedly pointed out
by Professor Brown that the native is the
principal “asset” of the Territories, though
their administrations do not regard the
matter in quite the commercial light that
the Professor’s phrase suggests. Sir William
Macgregor laid it down nearly half a
century ago that Papua must be run for the
benefit of the native first and foremost.
That policy has been rigidly adhered to,
and was adopted for New Guinea when Aus-
tralia took over control. In neither country
since the British flag flew over it has “ex-
ploitation” of the native population by
“company executives and shareholders” ever
existed. Under the native labor ordinances,
which-are rigidly enforced, it is an absolute
impossibility. This is so widely acknow-
ledged as to make the Professor’s statement
astonishing.
In view of modern experience and of ex-
pressed policy, it is not in the least likely
that Asiatic labor will be seen in those por-
tions of the Pacific under the British flag
which have not been already committed to
it by the short-sighted policy of the past.
The lesson of Fiji has been very plain to
read, and, as far as the Australian admini-
strations are concerned, the possibility need
not be considered. On the contrary, there
is plenty of evidence that the native popu-
lation of Papua and New Guinea will in
days to come enable the Territories to be-
come self-supporting, and that without any
menace of exploitation. That desirable con-
summation, however, will not be hastened
by such addresses as Professor Radcliffe
Brown’s.
BOURAGL.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Getting Away with It.”
Dear Bulletin, —Whilst agreeing that an
undue display of feminine charms is a
potent factor in tempting or stimulating un-
stable minds to sexual misdeeds, I think
we can find a more basic reason for this
as well as many other social evils that now
afflict Australia. The average citizen is
quite a decent chap (my masculine term is
to include the feminine), but he seems un-
able to effectively express his ideals or
enforce his standards. The consequence is
that society is ruled by a dominant minority
of toughs whose idea is that anything that
can be “got aw’ay with” is good enough for
adoption as a standard of conduct.
The application of this idea is very wide-
spread and is often supported by the reluct-
ant admiration of the weak-minded and
unthinking or less venturesome. Jones
is a worker on a big job. He develops a
flair for inventing ingenious excuses and
means for dodging work. The average
working man is really disgusted. He realises
that Jones’s cleverness is merely a faculty
for taking advantage of and loafing on his
mates; but “putting it across the boss” is
nowadays a legitimate pastime, and he is
permitted to “put it across” his mates under
cover of “putting it across” his boss. The
average decent worker sits dumb. The
militants win.
Sydney Town Hall had become such a
happy hunting-ground fon bribe-mongers
that its council was, of necessity, replaced
by a commission. Any corrupt practice
that could be “got away with” was good
enough for aldermen, who frankly demanded
the right to “look after” their friends.
Lenient punishments in the rare cases
wheA convictions are secured give our “hit-
and-run” motorists, razor-slashers, sex-
criminals and a dozen others a fixed idea
that they can actually or practically “get
away with” any crime.
The drunk is regarded as a joke rather
than a real or potential criminal and is
excused almost any excess. Naturally he
regards inebriety as a license to give way
to any whim of the moment.
A wide, if half-baked, knowledge and a
geneial discussion of contraception give
our youngsters the idea that they know it
all and can “get away with” any liaison.
The average citizen sits dumb. He is a
decent but inarticulate chap and shuns the
limelight that the toughs revel in. He has
lost the faculty of expressing himself, and
does not realise how many of his neighbors
think the same way as he does. Disunited
the average decent folk are unable to en-
lorce their demands for decent conduct in
political, commercial and social affairs. They
are ruled by a clamant minority, backed by
a sensation-mongering press that enjoys a
publicity which it mistakes for approval.
this is a wholly unsatisfactory state of
affairs, and, fortunately, it cannot last. It
is a primary law of physics that every action
is followed by an equal and opposite re-
action. The rule applies to sociology as
well as to physics. Georgian license was
followed by a straight-laced Victorian era.
lhe natural consequence of present-day
excesses will be a period of puritan extreni-
present N.S.W. is threatened with
prohibition not because the average citizen
desires it, but because the Wets have made
a welter of their freedom. The pendulum
viU swing back, and only one thing can stop
i swinging too far. The average citizen


must take a hand and express andendeavor
seriously to enforce his own ideals and
demands divorce, rape and the crime
passionate are starred, as long as go-slowism,
bribery, lingerie and sex relations are sub-
jects of newspaper jests, so long will these
things be taken lightly and condoned by the
thoughtless. As long as an individuals
ability to “get away with it, i.e., to escape
adequate punishment or reprisal, is taken
as a measure of rectitude, so long will our
political, social and moral fibres weaken
until either the bottom drops out of every-
thing or there arrives a super-reaction com-
plete with Ku Klux Klans or similar reform
(?) organisations.—l am, etc., Ngaboni.
♦ :
The Girl in Court.
In the witness box of a Victorian court
the other day stood a young girl In the
dock was a youth of 18, charged with a
serious offence against her. Across from
the jury box, 12 pairs of curious masculine
eyes looked down on her. Enthroned above
her was a masculine Judge; below him his
masculine associate. At the Bar table, a
couple of barristers, with the solicitors in-
structing them —all males —wrangled and
fought over the process of extracting the
shameful details of the business, bit by
bit, from the child. All that was said and all
that was done had to come, not once, but
sometimes twice or three times, from her
own lips. In the press seats half a dozen
male reporters’ pencils tore across their copy
paper lest any of the nauseating details
should escape them, and their readers
grumble. The body of the court was filled
by prurient, prying male eyes.
In that crowded court she stood, a child
of 14 or 15, alone of her sex!
That some remedy should be found for
this state of affairs there can be no question.
The difficulties in the way of women jurors
are many and obvious, not the least being
the upset and inconvenience that would be
caused in the poorer homes if Mum were
called up for three or four days’ jury duty.
There is also the possibility that, in a
sexual case, women might be inclined to
disregard the evidence, in a desire to con-
vict the man at all costs. On the other hand,
it does seem that the presence of, at any
rate, half a dozen women on the
jury would take away something
of the sense of friendlessness from
the girl, and perhaps, too, some
of the shame of revealing her
misfortune to an audience of men
only. And there should not be
any insurmountable difficulties in
the way of securing women jurors.
A list, like the present Jury
List, could be prepared, but com-
posed only of women whose
attendance on a jury would not
entail any hardship on themselves
or their families. Women jurors
are already an established fact in
England.
With the need for women jurors
runs the need for an Act compell-
ing, in cases like this, the clear-
ing of the court, including the
press. Of course the Judge has
power to order the court to be
cleared at present, but the Eng-
lish Courts, in their zeal for the
protection of the liberty of the
subject, decided years ago that
the exercise of that power should
be the exception and not the rule.
And by that Australian Courts
are bound, unless and until Par-
liament sees fit to order otherwise.
But whether we do anything in that
matter or not, we certainly ought to see to
it that no girl and no woman ever again
occupies such a position in such a court as
this Victorian child had to the other day.
♦
A Storehouse of Wealth.
There is joy in some places over the un-
stable Prime Minister’s statement that the
South-to-North railway is an economic
failure or an uneconomic blunder, or some-
thing to the same effect. It is hoped in those
places that this may herald the tearing
up of the agreement for the construction
of a line through the centre of the great
Federal province, and the substitution of
that railway through Western Queensland
which is to make a fortune by moving sheep
around in drought time. How Bruce knows
that the direct line is an economic failure,
when it has never been completed and
given a chance to prove itself, it is hard to
say. But an election is approaching, and
there are no votes to capture in the Great
Federal Territory. On the other hand
Queensland has 16 members in the two
Houses, of whom 15 are Government sup-
porters, and a friend like that deserves to
be buoyed up with hopes.
West Queensland can’t expect a drought
every year, so if the carriage of animals in
dry spells is to .be the great source of
revenue for a line thereabouts (and it is the
one on which most stress is laid) the pros-
pect is none of the best. On the other
hand the Northern Territory, in addition
to its sheep and bullock prospects, is a
rich mineral country, with its chances
blighted by lack of railway facilities, decent
roads and more wells. As Census Bulletin
No. 7 puts the case:—
“The vast area of mineral country lying
between Tennant’s Creek and the Macdonnell
Ranges, and stretching from Westralia to
the Queensland border, has as yet been very
little investigated. It covers an area of
200,000 square miles, but being situated in
the most inaccessible part of the Territory
this supposed storehouse of mineral wealth
must remain locked until such time as the
North-to-Soutli railway is an accomplished
fact.”
It is probable that very few people realise
how badly Australia wants to break into
a storehouse of mineral wealth, gold especi-
ally, at this time. Complete and accessible
mining statistics are scarce and not up to
date, but these are some comparative figures
for 1925:
All Minerals Produced.
Area in
Country. Sq. Miles. Value.
United States and Alaska 3,560,770 £1,134,276,000
Great Britain and Man .. 88,966 221,385,931
Australia .. .. .. 2,974,581 24,592,620
It is a poor output for a continent, and it
diminished in 1926. More than two-thirds
of the total comes from one State, New
South Wales. Nearly half is coal, and South
Australia is trying its hand at the importa-
tion of coal from England because the in-
dustry has got into a mess.
Taking one thing with another, then, the
Bruce-Page Government would be well-
advised to keep faith, and complete the
South-to-North railway at the earliest pos-
sible moment, and give it a chance to be-
come a paying proposition and have a look
at that storehouse.
—♦
Treating Paralysis with Malaria.
Since the article on Dr. Ellery’s remark-
able work at Mont Park, Victoria’s State
mental home, was published in The Bul-
letin, progress has been made in the treat-
ment of general paralysis with malaria. Of
60 patients who have been under observa-
tion, 37 p.c. have returned to useful work,
THE HIGH HORSE.
The Little Friendly Chap: “Better come off, Stanley, before you fall and hurt
yourself. ”
and another 37 p.c. have been restored to
partial health. There have been no deaths.
This astonishing success tends to remove the
method out of the experimental sphere, and
so much have the performances impressed
practitioners that Dr. Ellery is now pro-
viding strains of malarious blood for the
treatment of patients in private hospitals
and of those sufferers whose means allow
them to be supervised in their own homes.
The malarial infection can be kept alive
only by transference from one human host
to another; and, though up to date the
supply of victims of this previously fatal
illness has been ample to keep up the con-
tinuity of the bacterial cultures, a time will
come, unless the business is placed on a
stable basis, when a break may occur. Be-
fore he had his clinic properly under way,
Dr. Ellery had the greatest difficulty in
getting suitable malarial subjects. Appeals
sent out from broadcasting stations brought
plenty of volunteers, but in nearly every
case the subject proved to be unsuitable
for various reasons, principally the possi-
bility of his blood containing other harmful
bacteria besides those of malaria. Should
no more patients available for treatment be
forthcoming, the malarial strain would die
out in three or four days.
This makes it imperative that the Govern-
ment should take some official cognisance
of what Dr. Ellery is doing. Up to date
he has carried on his job out of love for
its technique, fascinating to the research
worker, in between his ordinary jobs. All
the Government has done is to Jet him use
the existing facilities at Mont Park. When
the Ministry can spare- a moment it might
consider the idea of establishing a permanent
hospital for the treatment of G.P. As
things stand, there is nothing to prevent
Ellery dropping the whole business to-
morrow, if he feels so disposed.
Buying Out Mr. Bung.
On the first Saturday of next month the
electors of N. S. Wales will be called upon
to say whether they are in favor of liquor
prohibition, with compensation to every-
one engaged in the trade, from the oldest
brewer down to the youngest barmaid. The
Act under which the vote is to be taken
means what it says when it uses the word
“prohibition.” If the Drys have a majority
of one over the Wets, then as soon as the
decision to abolish licenses comes into force
it will be an offence, punishable by a fine ol
£lOO on a first conviction and imprison-
ment for three months, to import, manufac-
ture, sell, or have in one’s possession any
alcoholic liquor.
The Act says nothing about the establish-
ment of forts and frontier patrols on the
Victorian, South Australian and Queensland
borders, and it is silent on the subject of
keeping liquor out of the ships that enter
the ports of the State. But it is loquacious
on the subject of compensation. Brewers,
maltsters, distillers and winemakers, owners,
lessees and sub-lessees of licensed houses
and vineyards and licensees of all sorts are
invited to make claims on the State Trea-
sury for depreciation of value of land, build-
ings, plant and stocks, up to half the original
capital value, and for loss sustained by
termination of trade, up to “three times the
amount of the average annual net profit
received by the claimant for the period (not
exceeding in any case three years) during
which the claimant was a licensee prior to
the date of prohibition.” Employees can
put in a bill for one-half their wages in the
year before the referendum, or for a whole
year if they got board and lodging free.
The claims will inevitably total several mil-
lions.
N. S. Wales stands in a position very
different from the United States—which, by
the way, paid no compensation—in attempt-
ing to outlaw the liquor trade. Uncle Sam’s
domain is the wealthiest in the world, a
creditor to all the other Powers. It could
stand the loss of excise revenue,
customs duties and license fees, and shoul-
der the substantial cost of attempting
enforcement, without any serious embarrass-
ment. N. S. Wales, heavily in debt, with
taxation on a scale that is already a serious
deterrent to trade and industry, is being
asked to pay, relatively, three or four times
as much for aridity as Uncle Sam did, and
with about a quarter the chance of achiev-
ing the very limited amount of dryness that
Samuel can boast of.
A lot could be said on other grounds
against attempts at prohibition, but the
primary objection to the dubious experi-
ment under the present proposal is that
New South Wales simply can’t afford it.
4
Tasmania’s Money-box.
Tasmanian Premier McPhee, alarmed at
the rumor that the Commonwealth special
grant to the Speck was to be reduced from
£378,000 to £220,000, tripped to Canberra to
implore Mr. Bruce to say it wasn’t true.
The Priminister would go no further than
to promise consideration. The alleged
trouble is that the island expects to show a
surplus of about £lOO,OOO on this year’s
transactions—practically the only State to
make ends meet —and a hard-up Common-
wealth Treasurer cannot be expected to
overlook a serious thing like that.
McPhee’s case, as it was Lyons’s, is that
Tasmania’s need for assistance arose, in the
first place, from the fact that if she could
not find a way of reducing her big public
debt, and more particularly the accumulated
deficit of about £750,000, the interest bill
would send her into bankruptcy, without
the option. Lyons's two surpluses were
applied to a reduction of the accumulated
deficit, and the present (expected) surplus
of £lOO,OOO (the result of Lyons’s last year
in office) ought to travel the same honest
road. But if the special grant is to be cut
down by £158,000, as suggested, the Lord
only knows what will happen to McPhee’s
surplus and Tasmania’s hopes of regaining
solvency.
The Bulletin’s notion is that Small
Sister’s efforts towards honest finance should
be encouraged by a continuance of the pre-
sent grant of £378,000 for at least two years
more.
4
The Gun Runners.
The decision of a number of British under-
writing organisations to refuse to insure
future consignments of arms and war muni-
tions to China is a definite step in the direc-
tion of mitigating warlike activities in many
quarters; indeed, in some instances, it pro-
mises to render them abortive. If, as is
stated, many of the great Continental cos.
are following the British example, the mar-
gin of prevention grows wider.
It would have strengthened the appeal of
the Kellogg Pact if it had contained a
provision binding the parties to it to re-
frain from selling war munitions to minor
Powers. The Great Powers have ample
means of fulfilling their own requirements
—even Britain has not overlooked the
lessons of the Great War in this respect.
Most of the less important nations in
Europe and outside it are unable to do so,
and have to draw their supplies from the
big neutrals, with the ever-present danger of
international complications threatening as
a result. Even Russia has been largely
armed and munitioned from the rest of
Europe and America since the war ended;
if left to its own resources, the militaristic
spirit of the Soviet would have been less
apparent than it is to-day. The case of
some of the minor and inflammatory Central
European Powers is as notorious in that
respect as that of China, to which country
the cutting off of warlike supplies from out-
side would inevitably bring a stalemate
peace.
The abolition, even the rigid supervision,
of this disastrous traffic by mutual agree-
ment among the great manufacturing Powers
would be a long stride, then, in the direction
of the millennium which the League of
Nations and the signatories to the Kellogg
Pact affect to desire.
_4
Freighters Beat the Mails.
The speeding up of cargo vessels is
responsible for a failure of the mail service
between Britain and the Commonwealth
which brings a howl from merchants,
importers and chambers of commerce every
winter. In the last few months fast
freighters have beaten the mails and have
discharged enormous London cargoes long
before the arrival of invoices and bills of
lading. In these circumstances the importer
is faced with the risk of having his goods
taken to the King’s Warehouse, which means
more expense and great inconvenience. The
other week the huge cargo of the Port
Hobart lay on the Melbourne wharves two
-days before the documents were rushed
overland from the West. Recently the Port
Fremantle ran from London direct to Mel-
bourne, via the Cape, in 32 days, beating
the mail. The C. and D. line claims that
the Port Fairy and other new vessels will
be faster still. So the trouble is likely to
extend. And now there is talk of sending
these Port greyhounds through the Canal to
clip two days off the round-the-Cape voyage.
The mail contracts provide for an average
speed of 15 knots. To increase this, the
price of the contract with the P. and O.
and Orient would have to be raised consider-
ably owing to the extra fuel consumption.
But, whoever pays, something will have
to be done to run regular mails a few paces
ahead of the freighters, for the most bitter
complaints come from good customers in
the United Kingdom and on the Continent
who want quick delivery of our wheat, wool,
fruits and butter without the humbug of
delayed documents.
4
“Q.N.”: An indictment of justices’ jus-
tice was provided at Brighton (Vic.) the
other day. A man was charged with using
obscene language and pleaded guilty, but
the Bench (consisting entirely of J’s.P.)
discharged him, the chairman remarking
that he knew the accused, and if he hadn’t
taken drink he wouldn’t have used the
obscene language. The newspapers having
got hold of it, the Attorney-General has
called for the papers. But lawyers practis-
ing in the police courts have to put up with
that sort of thing almost every day. I
appeared a while ago in a case in a country
town. There was not a tittle of evidence
against my client, and after a good deal of
discussion among the members of the Bench
(two J’s.P. and a police magistrate) the
P.M. discharged the accused. Afterwards the
P.M. told me he had the greatest job in
the world to convince his colleagues that
they couldn’t convict, because one of them
happened to know the accused and said he
had done the same thing to a friend of his
some time before.


"On a Cold and Frosty Morning”
SHELL OILS and SHELL SPIRIT —the quick starting pair—ensure an easy
start whatever the state of the thermometer. One depression of the starter
and the even hum of the engine tells you of mechanical well being.
SHELL gives you many miles of smoothly run motoring
pleasure, with ample power and speed when required.
MOTOR OILS SHELL SPIRIT
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
5579
POLITICAL
POINTS
Great was the anger of Repatriation-
Minister Howse when Secretary Stagg, of the
Returned Soldiers’ League, issued a circular
to Federal politicians complaining that there
was no appeal in the matter of a soldier’s
Howse, V.C.
pension except to the
men who had already
refused or reduced or
stopped it. The agi-
tation for an appeal
board had been long
and futile before Stagg
tried his latest course
of action. Minister
Howse described the
circular as “insulting,
unwarranted and un-
truthful,” but avoided
details. He told the
soldiers to “get out of
the political atmo-
sphere,” but didn’t
suggest any alternative
atmosphere to get into,
and man can’t live in
a vacuum. He de-
clared that “if they
were going to get any-
thing for the men it
was perfectly clear it
would not be got in
the hurly-burly of
politics.” Then he said
that if the soldiers wanted an appeal board
they should have one; and Secretary Stagg
felt that he had done a good day’s work.
Benjamin Howell Morgan, chairman of
the Empire Producers’ Organisation and
sometime British Trade Commissioner in
Australia, has brought the good news that
an additional sugar preference of £2 to £3
per ton is projected in Britain, provided
Queensland, for its part, can produce an-
other 200,000 or 300,000 tons annually for
export. That won’t be difficult, for the
planting area can be greatly increased; the
trouble hitherto has been to find a market
for the surplus, even at a sacrifice, though
Britain book 191,521 tons, valued at
£4,867,553, in 1925-26. Incidentally, Mor-
gan says that people in the south of Aus-
tralia who grumble at the retail price of
sugar don’t know when they are well off.
Bill Brownbill, M.L.A., Labor member for
Geelong, has laid this well-meant proposition
before Vic. Assembly :
That in the opinion of this House it is desirable
that every possible effort should be made to estab-
lish new industries and expand existing industries in
country districts throughout Victoria, in order to
further the policy of decentralisation, and increase
opportunities for employment in country districts.
Other countries can do that sort of thing
automatically. But other countries haven’t
got the Australian railway policy, including
construction and freight charges, which pro-
motes congestion and keeps country dis-
tricts poor and backward.
In the ballot for the Seamen’s Union sec-
retaryship Tom Walsh beat the truculent
Johanson hands down. His success is sig-
nificant, even though he may be jockeyed out
of the job on the pretext that he has done
something or other “contrary to union prin-
ciples,” for he made it clear to every member
of the organisation that he is out for indus-
trial peace. Evidently the mariners who go
down to the sea in ships want peace, _ the
thirst for war being confined to the mariners
who hang round Sydney and Melbourne.
S. Aus. Premier Butler has come in for
heaps of abuse for demonstrating that his
Government could buy British coal, landed
at Port Adelaide, at a substantial reduction
on the Port Adelaide price of the Newcastle
article, but N.S.W. Premier Bavin admits
that it is no isolated case. He mentions
sadly that Victorian people have been offered
“a large cargo of the best Scottish coal,
c.i.f. Melbourne, at 335. 6d. p.t., while the
price for Maitland best, c.i.f. Melbourne, is
375. Id. p.t.”
Gordon Coates, Prime Minister of Maori-
land, has several excel-
lent political assets.
He is—or was—a
farmer, and the Shiv-
ery Islands are gov-
erned by farmers for
farmers; he represents
an Auckland constitu-
ency ; he is young,
vigorous, a whale for
work, and not afraid
to tell people who get
in his way to go to a
warm climate. When
Massey and W ard
parted, Massey gave
Coates first the Post
Office, then Public
Works and then Rail-
ways ; and the young
man was driving the
triple team when his
leader died in 1925.
As head of the Gov-
ernment during the
last three years Coates
has had some ticklish
corners to negotiate,
but his seat in the
saddle has never been
shaken.
Priminister Coates
( ML. ).
N.S.W. Premier Bavin is trying to think
out ways and means of reducing the price
of Newcastle-Maitland coal so as to keep
good and badly-treated customers like S. Aus.
A device that ought to be tried is the banning
of race meetings, except on Saturdays and
holidays. Capricious stoppages are still
frequent on the coalfields, though the Gov-
ernment is shovelling out doles at the rate
of £5OOO or £6OOO a month, and everyone
knows there wouldn’t be so many of these
stoppages if there were not so many race
meetings. The secretary of the Maitland
Jockey Club recently reckoned Neweastle-
Maitland’s supply of racing at 546 meetings
per year. And, of course, the industry has
to stand the racket of all this crazy punting.
Priminister Bruce having turned a deaf
ear to Tas. Government’s request for financial
assistance in re-establishing steamer commu-
nication between Hobart and Sydney, hou.
Minister Grant has been authorised by Pre-
mier McPhee to prospect among mainland
shipping lines for offers to run a subsidised
service. The sudden stoppage of the Zea-
landia at the end of the tourist season left
Hobart pretty well speechless with indig-
nation. The Mercury has recovered suf-
ficiently to voice the opinion that the owners
of the Zealandia could dashed well afford to
continue the service during the winter, and
to draw pointed attention to the fact that
Jacky Evans, the Speaker, is their Hobart
manager.
The Queensland Parliament has appointed
J. V. MacDonald to succeed the late Senator
Givens, just as it appointed him in 1922,
when Senator Adamson died. Then, as now,
MacDonald was first among the Senate can-
didates in the party ballot; he was beaten
at the ensuing election, and it is expected
that the parallel will be completed. Labor
Premier McCormack, in nominating Mac-
Donald, said he believed that the party
with a majority in the State Parliament
should elevate one of its own men in these
cases. So does the S. Aus. Liberal party,
he might have added. On the other hand,
a predominantly Nationalist Vic. Parlia-
ment placed Laborite J. V. Hannan in the
late Senator Barker’s seat in 1924, and
there have been three similar instances in
N. S. Wales of recent years.
Another Royal Commission is trying to
get at the facts of certain mysterious trans-
actions of the late Sydney City Council (the
first investigator’s work has led to S. Y.
Mating, formerly deputy-general manager of
the Electricity Department, being fined £5OO
and sentenced to six months’ imprisonment,
subject to appeal), and this time P. V.
Stokes receives promi-
nent mention. It is
alleged that, when
Lud Mayor in 1926,
P. V. Stokes and Aider-
man II oldswort h
divided a corrupt pay-
ment of £5OO in re-
spect of a coal con-
tract —oue of many to
b e scrutinised. I u
addition to being
potentates in the
Municipal Labor
party, Stokes was
M.L.A. for Goulburn
at the time, and Holds-
worth M.L.A. for Syd-
ney. In the following
year Stokes joined
Lang’s Scabinet as
Minister for Agricul-
ture, only to lose his
seat at the general
election. He now
aspires to stand for
the Senate in the
Labor interest, but
the coal-contracts in-
quiry and the election
may clash.
Ex-Mayor Stokes.
It begins to be noticed that this nation
pays 4d. or sd. a pair more than necessary
for every pair of boots it makes and wears,
because a United States company with an
offshoot in Australia has contrived to mono-
polise patents for bootmaking machinery,
and rents (for it won’t sell) the apparatus
out at its own figures. No one the
Federal Government to do anything adequate
or hasty in the matter, but the Victorian
Ministry is trying its hand at the job in a
local way. Naturally Premier Hogan finds
no lack of obstacles.
The gentlemen who call themselves, “the
great moving-picture industry” are not
getting things all their own way in Maori-
land. The new Cinematograph Films Bill
combines the quota system with a new method
of extracting revenue from the “industry,”
in which tax-dodging has been elevated to a
fine art. The principal features are thus
summarised: —
In 1929 renters are to provide 7J per cent, of
Maoriland or British films, the percentage increasing
until 20 p.e. is reached in 1936. Exhibitors are
obliged to screen five per cent. British or M.L.
films in 1930, increasing to 20 per cent, in 1937.
The film-hire tax proposed is 5 per cent, on M.L.
films, 71 per cent. British and 12-i per cent, foreign.
All that the Bruce-Page Government can
think of in a situation immeasurably worse
is a Customs duty of l|d. per foot.
Now that the U.S.A. has recognised the
Nanking crowd as the Government of China
and given its oonsent to tariff autonomy,
there should be a rush of other Powers to do
the same. At present the size of John’s
tariff is fixed by treaty, but there is nothing
to prevent him erecting internal barriers,
which he does across every convenient creek
and canal. The revenue from these usually
goes into the pocket of the local ruler of the
canal or creek, and the attempt to suppress
them should keep the new Government busy.
Uncle’s action in letting China tax his goods
is probably meant as a counterblast to the
Japanese monopoly of Manchuria. A tariff
wall is not as serious an obstacle as an Open
Door which is only ajar diplomatically
speaking.
“Sol Malaprop”: I see it mentioned that
Griffith Taylor, Associate Professor of Geo-
graphy at Sydney University, has resigned
his billet and accepted a professorship at
Chicago, U.S.A. And I sincerely hope that,
just when he is settling down to his new
job, he won’t be sent out of the country, and
told to take his place at the tail of the long
queue which is waiting its turn to get into
the quota. As 121 Australians are admitted
to the U.S. per annum it is a mighty narrow
gateway. I seem to recall that an Australian
girl got a professorship of music lately at one
of Uncle’s educational establishments, and
lost it through being shot out of the republic.
The Vic. Health Commission will be abol-
ished if the State Parliament passes a bill
for the constitution of a Ministry for Health,
introduced by Beckett. Royal Commissioner
Wallace Ross recommended in December,
1926, that the commission, which succeeded
the old Health Board, should be wiped out,
and Beckett has fallen into the habit of
ignoring it.
On August 1 the Australian bankruptcy
law, passed four years ago, began to operate,
and it will shortly be making the fraudulent
trader sit up. Having thus cleared the decks,
Government should get to work on a uniform
divorce law. The State Premiers, with
unexpected unanimity, recently proposed the
adoption of tfie up-to-date British statute,
but the Bruce-Pages suggested that things
might totter on for a while longer. Yet
the present situation is occasionally cruel
enough to move a dead Cabinet into activity.
The most pathetic case is that of the deserted
wife whose husband has worked some juggle
about State “domicile,” and who can only
get relief if she is rich enough to pursue him
to said domicile and take action there. Her
alternatives are loneliness or immorality,
possibly disguised by bigamy, and varied by
the raising of illegitimate children. Why
the Commonwealth shouldn’t be one domi-
cile instead of six is a mystery. The posi-
tion probably is that Bruce and Page never
were deserted wives within the meaning of
the Act.
So far the Royal Commission appointed
by the Hogans to overhaul the Vic. Railway
Department has necessitated votes of £3OOO.
The inquiry is to go on until the end of
September, so more cash will be wanted.
When the second vote of £l5OO was before
the Assembly for approval Argyle asked what
was the good of the commission when Hogan
and Tunnecliffe were treating it with con-
tempt by taking pot-shots at Clapp when-
ever the mood seized them. On the follow-
ing day McPherson, Allan and (ominously
for the Hogans) even Dunstan joined in
deprecating sniping tactics. They argued
that it would be better to take the sense of
Parliament on the straight-out issue whether
Clapp should rule or retire.
Queensland Premier McCormack has said
some wise things lately about the results
of the borrowing policy and the folly of
building Government railways that can never
pay, but he was not happy in his condem-
nation of preferential voting for the Senate—
“the foolish system which gives the whole
of our Queensland representation to Labor’s
opponents, although Labor polled only 5000
or 10,000 fewer votes.” As a matter of fact,
Queensland Labor was 50,000 votes behind in
1925, and the result would have been the
same under the first-past-the-post system. At
the previous election preferential voting en-
abled Labor to win Senate seats in South
Aus. and Westralia, as Senators Hoare,
Needham and Graham could testify. At the
worst it gives the electors a wider choice
of candidates, whereas the old rules, generally
speaking, restricted the field to three on each
side. There is a case for the election of
Senators by proportional voting, but that
would mean that McCormack’s party would
have no chance of getting a Senate majority
at the polls for six years.
The buzz in the
lobbies to the effect
that the general elec-
tion will take place in
late October or early
November was con-
firmed during the week
by the announcement
that there would be no
by-election for Wide
Bay vacancy. E. B.
C. Corser, who fol-
lowed Andy Fisher in
that electorate, died in
his sleep at Mary-
borough last week. He
was the oldest member
of the House —and the
tallest.
Prohibitionist Green-
wood, who has been
in the background of
the Vic. Assembly for
the last three years,
made the speech of the
session last week in
exposing the weak-
nesses of the Hogans’
Late E.B.C. Corser.
Unemployment Insur-
ance Bill. When he finished his analysis the
measure looked groggy, and it will probably
be referred to a select committee.
The emoluments of the Speaker of the
House of Commons must set politicians who
sit precariously fronting the mace in Aus-
tralian Parliaments licking their lips en-
viously. The M.P. who keeps the Mother of
Parliaments in order receives £5OOO a year
while he is there, and a pension of £4OOO
when he retires. Also there is a peerage
waiting for him if he values such a distinc-
tion ; Whitley, who pulled out the other day,
was apparently the first Speaker for genera-
tions who didn’t want to be made a vis-
count. And there are other perquisities and
pickings unscheduled in the reference books.
By ancient and prescriptive usage the
Speaker is still entitled to “two hogsheads
of red wine” when he first assumes office, as
well as various annual presents, including
broadcloth from the Clothworkers’ Com-
pany and prime venison from Windsor Park.
The Poet Laureate’s butt of sherry has long
since been commuted for a money payment,
but apparently the Speaker may still claim
a similar quantity of port, if he feels like it.
THE SPRING GLEANING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Bavin said that the Government had relieved
the City of Sydney of the cloud of corruption, in-
efficiency and disgrace that rested on it. People
could now refer to their municipal centre without
hanging their heads in shame.”
Civic Commissioners! Hard will we cling to
them.
Brooms that are new to their jobs they
bring,
And none may proffer sub rosa jing to them,
As a fellow might to the Tammany ring.
The City is cleansed of its shame and slur
And he lifts his head, does the ratepayer,
Rid of the Bumbles with “cuts” to sling to
them
For bowser pumps and that sort of thing.
For aldermen’s jokes and their jinks are
over
And all the season of stains and sins,
The days they battened, like cows in stover,
The tolls they collared with winks and
grins;
And the years—God grant!—will be soon for-
gotten
When civic rule was so putrid-rotten,
And the Town Hall soon be as sweet as
clover
In Wiltshire meads when the spring begins.
Good-bye to the guzzles and gratis lushes
- Absorbed by many a portly coot,
The nose that reddens, the jowl that flushes,
The sagging paunches, the tongues that
flute !
And the city dads who could cars acquire
For the asking once—must they now go hire
For their jaunts de joic and their picnic
rushes,
Or get to the glens and the glades per boot?
Well, Pitt-street’s cleaner, by noon and
night;
The air seems fresher, of odors well rid.
With a Guildhall purged of its blackmail
blight
And the frantic quest for the furtive quid;
And the burghers glow with a new-born pride
In civic bosses with nought to hide
And never an axe to grind. Too right!
At least there's something that Bavin did.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Ming”: Our s.m., who is apt to be short-
tempered about 11.30 p.m., put a new station
on the map the other night. When a much-
inebriated traveller arrived and, lurching
heavily against the wall, breathed beerily
through the opening and demanded a “tick-
esh,” the s.m. snapped back, “Where to?”
The sozzled one proved to be of an amiable
and accommodating disposition. “Anywhersh
you liksh, ole boy,” he hiccupped agreeably,
“an* I’ll take you wish me if y’ like to
“Oh, go to blazes,” said the irritated official.
“Thash’ll do,” said the wobbling one, “gimme
two firshts to Blazhes. Ish zher pub there
any good?” As the train_ arrived at that
moment and the reveller joined ticketless in
the rush for a seat, I am still wondering if
he had any trouble in reaching his destina-
tion.
* * *
“Corso”: A lady motorist whose car had
swerved across a suburban street and crashed
through a plate-glass window was being ques-
tioned by the local police-sergeant after
the accident. “Surely on such a wide street
as this,” said the. interrogator, “you could
have done something to prevent this acci-
dent?” “I did,” the delinquent assured him
quite earnestly; “I screaftied as loud as I
could!”
THOUGHT HE RECOGNISED HER.
“Excuse me, Madam, but I have an idea I’ve seen you before somewhere.
“Of course, Doctor! Why, you brought me into the world.”
“Morita”: Wie. were indebted to a German
shell at Pradelles for the revelation of a
picturesque French custom. The battered
chateau in which we were quartered had
once been the pride of the village, and that
shell opened up a part of the cellar we
hadn’t located. In a small recess, com-
petely blocked up, was a store of the best
bottled liquor a thirsty Digger could desire
to sample. Our interpreter obligingly ex-
plained how it came to be there. At the
birth of the first male child in any French
family which resp'qpts ancient traditions,
the proud father lays down a stock of the
best in the cellar and closes it up with
brickwork against the time when the heir
shajl come of age. The Pradelles father
and all his family should still be thriving
after the frequency and heartiness with
which wfe drank their healths. One of the
last to hear about our find was the C. 0.,
and his dingbat made a special trip for
contributions to the officers’ mess. But all
he got was two demijohns, one of vin rouge
and the other of vin blanc, that had taken no
shell to disclose.
He * * *
“Bildad”: Three Australian detectives are
being sent to London, Paris and New York
to study police methods, which is a good
idea, as travel enlarges the mind and occa-
sionally the feet. Still there . are things
which can be learned without it. For in-
stance, an outstanding feature of the English
system is to have plenty of police to go
round and a few over. So when a degenerate
attacks a girl in a lane there are so many
chances of a bobby being within hearing
as to make it an inferior lookout for the
degenerate. It may be that 57,284 policemen
for an area less than one-fifth the size of
N. S. Wales is overdoing things (N.S.W.
has about 3000 of them), but it isn’t amiss
to have a margin. In New York it is gen-
erally understood that the force has a wide
knowledge of the criminal classes through
receiving tips from those who can offer
enough to make it worth while. Arrests
for drunkenness are said to be extremely
rare anywhere in the States, because it.
would be folly to start the idea that prohibi-
tion, which makes bootlegging and the profits
thereof, is a failure. If a drunk is so
obstreperous that he simply bellows to be
captured it is easy to run him in for assault
or bigamy or high treason, and not present
him in court till he is sober:
* * * *
“Cliev.”: The worst sample of burglar’s
luck to date was the case of a man who
stuck up a car after dark outside Perth and
asked the driver for a lift. The driver’s
companions showed great curiosity as to the
contents of a bag the man carried.- In fact,
they insisted on examining it. It proved to
be full iof freshly-stolen goods; whereupon
the passenger was conveyed to the police-
station. He had intercepted the police
patrol.
* # He *
“W.1.U.”: Lucky escapes? Recently a
man on a tricycle was heard passing a way-
side station on his way toward Peterborough
(S.A.). . The night was dark, the track
winds through hills and. a tunnel, and a
train was due on the section from the oppo-
site direction. The signalman was able to
get through on the telephone in time to
warn the enginemen, but they had an anxious
time of it until they found the human ob-
struction dead asleep on the trike. Roughly
'awakened from his beery slumbers he
showed no gratitude; instead he angrily
demanded to know why the blankety blank
they couldn’t go around instead of waking
him.
He * * *
“Silentioi”: . The meanest man of my
acquaintance is a cobber who won a motor
in an art union. He didn’t know much
about cars, and asked me to come and see
if all the gear was there when he took it
over. Satisfied on that point he began to
grumble fiercely when he found that he had
to insure and register his prize. He claimed
that it ought to have been delivered ready
for the road, without involving him in. any
expense beyond the bob he had paid for the
ticket.
* $ $ $
“Windsor”: Fitzroy (Melb.) has its
Boadicea. Six plain-clothes men who called
to search her house the other day were
hoarsely directed through the front door
letter-slot to go elsewhere, and, when one
of them began to read his warrant, the lady
thrust a table-knife menacingly through the
aperture, at the same time calling upon some
other unseen member of the family to “get
the axe.” The Johns then conducted a
spirited rear attack, but before they had
forced the back door, barricaded with tables
and chairs, an iron poker wielded through
a broken window had put one of the attack-
ing force out of action with a fractured
hand. In the subsequent m@lee a loyal son
and daughter rallied to Mum’s aid, one
armed with a crowbar, the other with a pair
of hot tongs. Overpowered and disarmed,
Boadicea finally rushed off and made an un-
successful attempt to take poison. The Johns
don’t seem to have found what they were
looking for, but the Amazon received one
month for assualt.
A KNEESY ONE.
“Isn’t it a bit short?”
“Not at all! This is the dernier cri.”
“Beg pardon I thought it was the knee plus ultra.”
“P.M.” : On board the Nestor coming home
in 1919 the officers and nurses held a fancy
dress dance on the boat deck, while a gallery
of Diggers on top of the isolation hospital
formed a critical audience. Presently one of
the company commanders done up as a swag-
man, long ziff, billy and all, marched along
the deck. There was a roar as one of the
hardheads recognised him. “Gawdstrooth,
look, boys! The boss is back to his civvy
job! ” * * « *
“Shep”: The mining of objects that might
be regarded by the
enemy as war
souvenirs (B.
25/7/’2S) was a
popular hobby with
Fritz. Dug-outs
on the Somme were
largely utilised, and
many a German
helmet or bayonet,
innocently hanging
from the wall, was
the connecting-link
of a shattering
charge. On the
way to Bapaume
some dastard even
mined one of his
own dead lying in
the middle of a
crossroads. When
humane troops
lifted the body up
to shift it they
were blown up, and
that road was out
of action for days.
The Town Hall at
Bapaume went up
in smoke days after
the Germans re-
treated, at a time
when it was full
of Australian in-
fantry. Men
worked for a week
digging out the
bodies of our
troops. Near Lag-
nicourt we were
quartered' in one of the two untouched
houses in the village. When the other blew
up we reckoned it time to shift.
* * * *
“Arthur R.”: Wireless broadcasting is
helping the watchmaker to grow rich. Mag-
netism is no respecter of watches, and the
powerful polarity of head-pliones is just
as likely to affect the 50-guinea timepiece
as the three-bob hoy-proof. Before the advent
of broadcasting less than five per cent, of
watches sent for repair suffered from magne-
tised springs; now 40 per cent, are so
affected.
* * * *
“F.A.” : There were some picturesque and
occasionally somewhat puzzling names over
the doors of the 250-odd pubs that attended
to Sydney’s thirst during the sixties of last
century. Many of these, such as the “Green
Dragon,” the “Crooked Billet,” the “Dog
and Duck” and the “Swan with Two Necks”
were old English tavern signs transplanted,
hut the origin of the “Grinding Youth”
(Redfern) is intriguing. “The Steam
Engine” moistened the old Haymarket from
the George-street end, the “Jew’s Harp”
twanged on Brickfield Hill, and the “Cauli-
flower” flourished on Botany-road. One
would have expected to find the “Lord High
Admiral” perched somewhere near the briny,
but this, too, was situated along the Botany-
road. Near the present Bulletin office was
the “Old Folks at Home” where many an
old salt shed a beery tear in the days when
the clippers berthed at the Quay. The
“Patent Slip” near Argyfe Cut probably
took its name from the docking arrangements
close at hand, and the same would apply to
the “Revolving Battery” in Darling-street.
Arboreal names were not uncommon, in-
cluding the “Cherry Tree” at the corner of
Bathurst and Castlereagh streets, the Demon
Tree” and the “Greenwood Tree at I ad-
dington.
* * * *
“Gauger”: It happened at El Ivatia. The
sth Light Horse had galloped into the oasis
under a hail of machine-gun bullets, tumble i
off their horses and charged across an open
claypan towards the Turkish guns. Right
in the open a malevolent spray of bullets
cut through Dar-
kie’s belt and sent
his strides tum-
bling about his
knees. He strug-
gled up and started
in pursuit of the
regiment, one hand
gripping his pants,
the other his rifle,
haversack and ban-
dolier, while his
water - bottle
thumped around his
neck. He fell again
and a mouthful of
e a r,t h smothered
his curses. Then
a fresh idea struck
him and he tolled
about trying to ex-
tricate himself
from his impeding
nether garments,
but, despite fren-
zi e d efforts, he
couldn’t unlace the
knees and get them
over the leggings in
time. Then the bul-
lets began to spray
around him and he
realised that he
was being made a
target. He strug-
gled up once more
and saw the tail
end of the regiment
disappearing under
cover of the distant
palms. Darkie
sturdily took up
the chase, though
it looked to us as if
every rifleman in
the Turkish army
was trying to get him; the sanid and
clay around the hobbling man was torn by
bullets every moment. Miraculously he
reached cover and flopped down, weeping
tears of sheer rage.
* * * *
“Unity”: The clean-up in railway circles
preparatory to the annual inspection by the
Commissioners (B. l/8/’2B). recalls the
agitation that used to go on m M.C. way-
back schools when an inspector was known
to be prowling round the district. As the
official call was always supposed to be in
the nature of a surprise no notice was given,
so when a well-known inspector was accosted
in a Waikato township by an alert-looking
individual, who introduced himself as the
schoolmaster at Te Waimata and asked when
his school was to be visited, the official eye
was turned on him very coldly. Young
man,” said the inspector, “I am not yet
certain when I shall inspect your scnool,
and if I were I wouldn’t tell you. Oh,
that’s all right, sir,” said the young man
pleasantly, “only you’ll have to get across
the river, and I’m the only person who has
a boat!” . *
“Feng-Shui”: Unusual opportunities of
showing benevolence come the way of
Oriental princes. Takamatsu, the Japanese
royalty who recently visited. Australia, was
asked to intervene Recently in the case of a
peasant girl who answered an advt. for a
domestic servant for a Tokyo household.
When she arrived in the capital she was
met and taken to the yoshiwara, where she
was sold for 300 yen to a licensed house.
She succeeded in bolting to the prince s
ship, on which her brother was a seaman.
He told liter he could do nothing, but Taka-
matsu got wind of the affair and instructed
his secretary to buy the girl off for 500 yen
and see her safe to home and mother.
* * * *
“Kerys”: No longer is it necessary for
the participants in a wedding ceremony to
arrange for the church organist or the
bride’s best friend to supply incidental
music. The other day in Maonland, ox A
received a request to turn on a Wedding
March precisely at 7 p.m., which they oblig-
ingly did, with the result that at Inver-
cargill a newly-married pair left the church
in step to the wireless notes. To the
majority of listeners it was merely an item
in the evening programme, but it promises
to become a regular thing in cases where
no organist is available.
THE WEEK BEFORE LAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Say, did you see him arrayed in his glory V
Did you get a good eyeful of him strutting
past?
I’ll bet he’s telling a different story
To what he told us the week hefore last.
Week before last he was finished with women,
Fed up, disgusted with every damn one.
Never again would a sheila take him in
Same as the girl diown at Casey’s had
done!
“Spent all my evenin’s an’ done my last
brown there,
Cripes f What damn fools wiramin make of
us men,
Never again, Joe!” —and now he’s off down
there
Trying his luck with a lady again.
There’s a new barmaid, and that’s where
he’s nicked to,
But, as I said when I saw him go past.
Things would be crook if we all had to stick
to
All that we said in the week before last.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.
ALL MOD. CONV.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have camped upon African deserts,
I have swung in a hammock at sea
(Which, no matter what anyone says, hurts
Ideals of what slumber should be) ;
But I think the acutest discomfort
Obtains in a “Bachelor Flat’]
For a Britisher’s home is a bum fort
Without space to strangle a cat.
They polish the nobs of the portals,
And boast about lighting and lifts,
But the tenants, unfortunate mortals,
Are given the shortest of shrifts.
Can the knocker’s superlative burnish
Be used as a rest for the head]
Then why, when they set out to furnish
Did they get such a cow of a bed?
It stands, a malign combination.
Offending my ease and my eye,
And in my sincere objurgation
New gambits I daily supply.
When weary with toil or some gay time,
Its contour affords no delight;
It may be a bed in the day-time,
It’s a sack stuffed with pebbles at night.
N.s.w.
THE BARGER OF WRONG.


“Ist Pioneer”: “Mond” is surely in error
when lie computes the size of the “Rising
Sun” cut on the hillside opposite Fovant
Camp as “about 30 feet high by 50 feet
across.” I enclosfe. a photo of the memorial,
which is, to the best of my belief, at least
300 yards across,. The site was well
picked; above it is a dark mound, supposed
to be the remains of an old Roman camp
dating back to the early occupation of
Britain by the legions.
“Char”: Touching that A.I.F. memorial
at Fovant, when we passed through the
famous Salisbury Plain on our return
from France, it was common talk in the
camps that a local landowner had lodged a
claim against A.I.F. Headquarters for
damages to liis grazing lands, and that the
liability had been admitted and a sum of
money paid ever as compensation, even
though cattle could never use that part of
the hill on account of its steepness. There
was such an outcry, it was further reported,
over this bit of meanness that the
squire had sought to make amends by hand-
ing the money over to charity.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: The Olympic Games periodi-
cally set leader-writers furbishing up their
classical lore, but I have so far seen no
THE FAMILY.
(Voice from bedroom: “Go to sleep my little piccaninny.”)
VISITOR: “Billy, that’s news—I didn’t know you had a baby.”
BILLY: “We haven’t. That’s the wife singing her Pekinese to sleep.”
mention of one of the most interesting
things noted by historians of b.c. times
about the original contests. The only lead-
ing Greek State that set no store by the
Games and instead looked down rather scorn-
fully on them, declining to participate, was
Sparta, the toughest and most distinguished
in warfare of the lot. The reason was simple,
The Spartans preferred to keep themselves
fit and to indulge their taste for sport by
hunting wild beasts, and it was only in their
section of Greece that there were wild beasts
left to hunt. It might almost be said that
mankind generally only turned to arti-
ficial sport as the natural variety became
either inaccessible to the great majority or
unobtainable at all. When athletically in-
clined youth could no louger develop its
skill and strength and fleetness by pursuing
the denizens of the wild, men turned to con-
tending against one another over measured
courses, and hurling discs and leaping over
obstacles and what not. So the foremost
athletes of to-day are mostly the products
of the big cities or the well-populated country-
sides. A possible exception might be re-
corded in the case of the Finnish long-dis-
tance champions, but I don’t know any other.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: It isn’t only the gramophone
that gives us remarks not intended to be re-
corded (B. 4/7/’2S). Broadcasting from a
Brisbane studio, the announcer finished the
programme and with a fervent ejaculation
of thanksgiving prepared to make for home.
Just then the band struck up “God Save,”
and in the silence before the opening chords
listeners heard, “Stand up for the King,
Bill,” followed immediately by the full-
throated reply, “Blow [or words to that
effect] the King! I’m finished.”
*l : ❖ ;J:
“Mick Q.”: The telephones which connect
departments _in the Government Insurance
Building, Brisbane, on the top of which 4QG
is situated, make quite good receiving sets.
On them the toilers can listen in to the
music from the : Paris cafe and hear the
latest football and sporting results. When
Kingsford Smith arrived many of the ’phones
were engaged listening to 4QG’s announce-
ments. Unfortunately one or other of the
heads often endeavors to use the ’phone at
the same time. They seldom get themselves
heard, but they interfere with the enjoyment
of listeners.
* * * *
“T.P.”: My academy is proud of its Penny
Savings Bank. A blue-eyed little kinder-
gartener of five, producing his passbook the
other day, asked “Can I dror my two-and-
fruppence out? A nurse is bringin’ bubbies
’long our street, an’ I’m buyin’ a little girl
for mum. She’s tired o’ boys.” Ilis mother
had a shock when I wrote officially for con-
firmation of the withdrawal.
* * * *
“Me Too” : Yes, there ivere bad ’uns among
the Tommy military police. Two cobbers
and I were having a gay time in the Big
Smoke and overstayed our leave. It being
our first lapse, we had visions of a firing-
squad, but while strolling down the Strand
we met a Digger who put us wise to the
military police at Victoria station. Next
morning we decided to try our luck, and
left it to the hardest case of the party to fix
it. He sent us up first and* with a “John
Bradbury” in his hands, he brought up the
rear. The M.P., seeing the note, couldn’t
stamp our passes fast enough. Whereupon
our hard case put the note back in his pocket
and asked the blighter what he could do
about that.
* * * *
“Old Bird”: I wonder how many old
battlers are still going who remember Syd-
ney’s first Socialist League. One Peter
Macnamara was its progenitor, also its head,
feet and circumference, a dynamic organiser
and propagandist, though self-educated and
handicapped by having neither profession
nor trade. The league was anchored in a
first-floor flat over a shop in George-street
which is now the Regent Theatre site. The
f ro nt ro-om was a lecture-liall and reading
room; the back one served as a dormitory
for president, secretary and any deadbeats
who might look in. At daybreak tea was
brewed in a huge billy, and along with bread
and devilled steak (then 2d. a lb.) furnished
breakfast for all hands. The cost was de-
frayed by Mac out of the league’s funds,
which accumulated in a cigar-box, nailed to
the reading-room table, into, which every visi-
tor was expected to drop a penny. As the
day’s gate often amounted to 155.. it will
be seen that the room was popular. The
liles carried papers from all parts of the
world, many of them unprocurable elsewhere,
and all donated. Here might be seen men
who subsequently made good in law r , poli-
tics or literature. Alfred Yewen, who
MAKING A CLEAN BREAST OF IT.
NEW MEMBER (to Librarian): “What I want, Mister, is something that’ll give me the
creeps I’m such a hookworm, you know!”
founded the short-lived journal New Order,
was one; Henry Lawson another. Weekly
lectures were given, also dramatic recitals
and debates, all without charge. Socialism
- —for good or evil—was sincere at least in
those days and wholly unselfish.
: i ; * * *
“Semper Me” : I appeal to “Country Ped.”
and others with like interests to bend a
stern, reforming eye in the direction of Sun-
day schools. I protest that infants of ten-
der years should not be taught the Ten Com-
mandments at all, or else taught them with
discrimination. Yesterday morning circum-
stances compelled me to execute the rooster
dedicated to Sunday’s dinner. My youngest
daughter was so shocked at my cruelty
(though she will not be averse to a little
bit off the breast) that she would not speak
to me all day. The sight of my dressing
to go out in the evening broke the silence:
“Muvver! Muvver! Do you mean to say
that you can go to a party and play bridge
after you have committed adultery?”
* * * *
“Mephisto”: Recently a car ran off one
of Queensland’s country roads in wet
weather, and a girl passenger was caught
under the chin by a projecting limb of a
fallen tree and lifted right out of the vehicle.
When picked up, she was dead. The driver
was terribly distressed by the tragedy, and
a friend took him to his house for the night.
The next morning lie thought that wireless
would be a diversion for the brooding man,
and so tuned in and handed over the ’phones:
Suddenly his guest turned deadly pale and
dropped them. The host picked them up and
heard the announcer broadcasting the news
of the tragedy!
* * * *
“Doric”: “Cripes, some o’ them Sydney
girls is hot stuff all right!” said Bill, when
recounting his experiences after his visit to
the city. “I was walkin’ along Phillip-
street one night, when a flash piece in a
fur coat said ‘Hullo, Love!’ as she passed.
I stopped and ’ad a bit of a chat, and she
suggested a walk. Well, we went into the
Domain _ an’ she started cuddlin’ up to me
at once.” He paused to get the full effect
on his hearers. “D’yer know, I believe she’d
’ave let me kiss ’er if I ’adn’t been in a
hurry to catch a tram!”
# ■ * * #
“Phillip Street” : A. B. Shand, K.C., was
the other day cross-examining a witness, in
an application under the Testator’s Family
Maintenance Act, who had sworn to an inti-
mate knowledge of the testator. Producing
a photograph and showing it to the witness,
Shanid asked if it was a good portrait of
the deceased. “Of course lie was a much
older man than that,” said the witness.
“Yes; but allowing for that, i s this a good
photograph of the man you knew?” asked
the K.C. “Oh. yes, a very good likeness
indeed,” said witness. “What I have been
showing the lady,” said Shand. turning to
the Bench, “is a photograph of Mr. Justice
Higgins.”
“Richard Garwyn”: In Melbourne a man
was recently fined £2 for having obstructed
a policeman in the execution of his duty,
the obstruction consisting in telling a publi-
can, “Don't let anyone in or out of the back
door. The Johns are in the lane.” The
magistrate presumably convicted on therprin-
ciple that a private citizen who knows that
an offence is about to be committed and does
not attempt to stop it, either personally or
by informing the authorities, is guilty of
aiding and abetting. Still, there are prece-
dents the other way, which might have led
to the conviction being upset if an appeal
had been lodged. In England not long ago
a patrol of the Automobile Association was
charged with having obstructed the police
by warning motor-car drivers that they were
approaching a speed trap. The result was that
cars went through the trap at three and four
miles an hour, and made a laughing-stock of
the police. The successful defence in that
case was that the patrol, by cautioning the
drivers, was helping to prevent an offence
and thereby merely doing his duty as a
law-abiding citizen.
* ❖ * Hi
“Lao-dah” : The fishing up by Melbourne
workmen engaged on the new Spencer-street
bridge of a gigantic redgum stump raises
the question of the antiquity of these trees.
A specimen, still living and jealously pre-
served by the local council, stands in a
public garden at Ivanhoe (Vic.) and is
reckoned by botanists to be upwards of six
centuries old, but the service of a. geologist
had to be obtained to ascertain the age of
a bole which was found 40 feet below the
ground at Newmarket. It. had been con-
verted into chalcedony, and was calculated
by Fred Chapman, of the National Museum,
to have flourished at least 250,000 years ago.
* * * *
“Lump-vag” : The township where I have
my being consists mainly of one very long
street, with a hotel at each end. The other
night, while patronising one of these estab-
lishments, I noticed that the number of cus-
tomers was unusually large for a week day
and inquired of the barman whether there
was anything special on. “Yes,” he replied,
“the town band is giving a concert!” “But”
I objected, “that’s in the other end of the
town.” The barman nodded. “That’s why,”
he said grimly.
*** . *
“Lucifer” : Maorilanders may set no parti-
cular value on furniture used by the Duke
and Duchess of York (B. 18/7/’2B), but it
is different in Bananaland. I have visited
three 1 * houses in Brisbane and one in the
country which contain lounge chairs that
were bought with a verbal guarantee that the
Duke had sat in them.
* * * *
“Amyl Nitrite”: The Ahgus quotes Dr.
Blackmore, a director of T.B. institutions
in Maoriland, to the effect that “although
tuberculin is not a cure for tuberculosis, it
is the best remedy we possess at the present
time for the treatment of the disease.” As
a T.B. of several years’ standing, I should
like to state that I have had treatment in
all guises, but never would I come at tuber-
culin. I could give scores of instances where
windy “early-stage” patients who rushed the
injections as drowning men grab at straws
have passed out, mainly through the dope. I
attribute the fact that I am alive to-day
through eschewing quack therapeutics,
although a couple of operations have helped
me. Incidentally, the environment of sana-
toria often kills T.B.’s before their time.
I atients discuss their ailment at breakfast,
dinner, tea, in the grounds; in fact, any-
where where two or three of them are gath-
ered together, and the result is disastrous.
* * * #
P.M.”: Rc lost overcoats being charged
up in Diggers’ paybooks (B. 11/7/’2B). My
experience was that the more valuable the
article lost or destroyed the less likelihood
there was of being mulct for it. On one
occasion the motor-bike I was riding caught
fire and was incinerated; during the process
my hat got badly scorched. I was debited
the few' shillings for a new hat, but nothing
was ever said about the £OO worth of bike.
It a Flying Corps pilot wrecked an aero-
plane worth £2OOO and crawled out of it
with a few broken bones he wasn't penalised
financially. But if he lost a service revolver
during the mishap he was expected to pay
for it.
SMITH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There was no smith found throughout all the
land of Israel.” —I Sam. xiii, 19.
There’s Smithy, Captain K.,
Who hopped the other day
From Suva to Bananaland’s metrop.,
And Ross and Keith (both sirred)
And eke a Yankee bird
All scored some nifty flights without a flop.
Then Smith, whose name was John,
Who starred with Pocahon.,
A pirate who escaped from being hung
(Or hanged, to be correct) ;
And Joe, whose Mormon sect
Was put upon the map by Brigham Young.
Then Adam Smith, the don,
Founder of Pol.Econ.,
(For details vide Die. of Nat. Biog.)
And William, known of all
Through Balbus and his wall,
And Canon Syd., the last a funny dog.
Then Villeneuve, in silk,
And Bruce, of that same ilk;
And Johann Faber—meaning just the same —
Maker of best H.B.’s,
Links the Antipodes
To “Deutschland iiber Alles” by his name.
And you may add thereto
Cute Psmith whom Wodehouse drew
(I understand the P must not be stressed),
And he who tells the earth
What gave his Weekly birth
May surely claim a place among the rest.
And hence, with saucer eyes,
I register surprise
To find in Holy Writ a patent myth.
There surely was a Yid
So named the tribes amid ;
I can’t believe that Israel had no Smith.
VICTOKIA.
WAWDERESH.


XPhe 'Fouling 'Preference
SA'N
cv°
*0
6*
,
m
&
rttm
m
iiooWtf
0
r : .
*f?
Mg
, /
mm,
ffl
$
ic§
V
m
'•:■■■■■■ :•
wßmmm
m
m
m
■
w
m
Hi
ffm
mmmm
■
:)
■ : ■
■
■ ■
'
u
HH
dO
Vi#
Vt*
ZP
1 <r} ?
’ 'I
\
£1
9/fIK
\ri
m
m
JB3&IK
M «
H
MM
■
fM
f
V">
) TPS
7(iwac76
sorcrs
IV
a
(gold label)


=cs.
C 5
*92
Ardath
Tobacco
Co., Ltd.
London.
£5OO
in Cash Prizes
20 for 1/6
JyrfjTE ftpßjsss
333
CIGARETTES
777
- tm
m.
ree
£P*k
Sc!7®i
State Expressettes is a fascinating Competition with
handsome prizes for the winners. See daily papers for
full particulars of this interesting Competition. Closing
date, September 8.
Send your entries without delay.
Ardath
Tobacco
Co., Ltd.,
London.
£5OO
in Cash Prizes
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Ages of Chief Justices :
Adrian Knox (High Court) 64, McMillan (W.A.)
70 last Jan., Irvine (Vic.) 70 last month, Street
(N.S.W.) 65, Murray (S. Aus.) 65 next month,
Nicholls (Tas.) 60, and Blair (Q.) 57.
W.A.’s Chief Justice has been the longest
in office, nearly 15 years, and he was a
Puisne Judge 11 years before that. All
except McMillan and Irvine were born in
Australia. Knox and Street are natives of
Sydney.
Dr. SPENCE, R.C. Archbishop of Adelaide,
who is preparing to welcome Sydney-
bound European prelates to the
Eucharistic Congress.
Dr. Cosmo Gordon Lang has succeeded
Dr. Davidson as Archbishop of Canterbury.
It was only through the persistence of the
obstinate Queen that Dr. Lang, then a vicar
at Portsmouth, was created Bishop of Step-
ney, yet after Victoria’s death he gained
the second highest post in the Church by the
sheer dominance of his personality. As a
young man Lang was a poseur in the pulpit;
his frequent pauses for effect while his glit-
tering eyes surveyed his flock were rather
obvious. But even in those days he was far
from being a parish priest; always he was
the aloof and superior prelate of whose ser-
mons it was fashionable to speak most highly
when they were most obscure.
The short stories lately published in The
Bulletin are earning commendation in every
quarter. Charles S. Gilmour is the third
contributor within the past few months to
have a story selected by E. J. O’Brien for
publication in his annual Anglo-American
collection of the world’s best short stories of
the year. The story that attracted O’Brien’s
fancy was “lodine.” And a writer in Mel-
bourne Sun-Pictorial has included Cecil
Mann's “The Gun” as one of the world’s six
best short stories not merely of the year but
of all time.
A Kandos (N.S.W.) parson having been
hit in the face with a stale egg at a prohi-
bition meeting, the story of Lloyd George’s
retort has been re-
vived. Tile Welsh-
man wiped himself
and remarked that
a p p a rently his
opponent’s argu-
ments were all un-
sound. But Yesno
Reid got as good
a one in much earl-
ier. It was follow-
ing the half-heart-
ed Protective tariff
of George Dibbs:
and Freetrade (of
the Yesno pattern)
had come back
again. This man
threw what smelt
like a good egg.
Reid wiped his
face. “You couldn’t
afford to do that
under Protection,
my fri e n d,” he
piped.
EZRA MILLS
LAWTON,
Consul-General
for the United
States, who,
64 this month,
now thinks
about retiring.
The war cut harshly into the life of
“Dick” (W.E.) Richards, formerly head
salesman for Hill, Clark and Co. and later
a director of the firm, and one of the best-
known stock-salesman in N. S. Wales. Rich-
ards had four sons when the war started
and they all enlisted. Two were killed, and
a third was accidentally shot after his re-
turn from active service. The old man,
sadly hit, lived to be 72 before he died the
other day.
When Robert William Hardie set up his
plate as an estate-agent in Sydney a small
shop answered all the purposes of the busi-
ness, part of which was the collection of
rents from private houses in such places as
Castlereagh and Hunter streets and other
parts of the city from which -commerce has
long swept the hash-house and the residence.
Son of a missionary, Hardie was born in
Samoa; he was 18 when his father, 62 years
ago, secured an appointment to a Woollahra
congregation. Eighteen years ago he retired
from the Hardie and Gorman business which
he had founded with a partner, but he re-
mained a director of that and several other
companies right* up to the time of his death.
An Australian who has found honor out-
side his own country is Clarence H. North-
cott. A State-school teacher in Sydney, he
gained one of the coveted annual bursaries
which were open to employees of the depart-
ment 25 years ago, entitling them to day
lectures at the University. All those depart-
mental bursary holders have done well. After
tacking M.A. to his name, Northcott was
on the staff of Sydney Grammar for some
years. Then he went abroad and took the
Ph.D. at Columbia. Old associates had lost
sight of him when he blew into Sydney the
other day as labor manager of Rowntree’s,
the chocolate manufacturers of York (Eng.).
Rowntree employs 7000 people, and North-
cott’s job is to supervise working conditions
in a spirit of goodwill so that the big machine
shall run smoothly.
Three new King’s Counsel are likely in
Victoria—Tom Brennan, Eugene Gorman
and Bob Menzies. The first-named, one of
the leaders of the criminal Bar, is a brother
of Frank, M.H.R. He was formerly on the
staff of the Akgtis. Gorman has a large
mixed practice, criminal and civil; Menzies,
a son of a former M.L.A., has devoted him-
self almost entirely to the civil side.
The increasing shakiness of the Spanish
throne, shown by the revelation of
one more plot against the king, is prophetic
of the passing of another ruling house. The
world is full of disused crowns and coronets.
The Kaiser cuts his own firewood in Hol-
land ; the Hapsburgs are a memory, but
Zita, the wife of a son of Franz Josef, lives
in a fishing village in Spain with her son ;
the Romanoffs are represented by Marie of
Russia, wife of Alexander 111. and mother
of Nicholas 11., who lives in London on
British bounty; Manoel of Portugal, who
lost his throne for a vaudeville star, lives
in London or the south of France as the
mood strikes him; even Egypt and China
have wandering royal exiles—the Chinese
representative, born to be the Son of Heaven,
is plain Mr. Henry Pu Yi in his European
exile.
If the Hogans succeed in inducing Parlia-
ment to approve of the appointment of an
extra Minister and they continue in office
long enough to get George V.V assent to
the bill, it looks as if John Cain, Honorary
Minister and Assistant Minister of Agricul-
ture, will get a salaried portfolio, lie will,
of course, have to be elected by the caucus,
but he has earned a lift. If any other
vacancy occurs it will be difficult for caucus,
including Cabinet colleagues, to pass over
Webber, Honorary Minister and secretary
to the Ministry. In fact, if preference to
soldiers were recognised (and he would not
move a finger to have it recognised for him-
self) lie would be entitled to the first vac-
ancy.
A new poem by Kipling was once cabled
to Australia, but Dr. E. 11. Sugden is prob-
ably the first professor to have a lecture
translated into the Morse code and trans-
mitted almost verbatim. The one-time master
of Queen’s College, Melbourne, was invited
to give this year’s Fernley lecture at Liver-
pool. He selected for his subject “The
Debt of Israel to Egypt,” and the learned
discourse filled a column of the Argus.
This must be about a record. A banquet
was given by the Mayor and Councillors to
celebrate the fortieth anniversary of the
appointment of P. I). B. Robinson as Town
Clerk of Gisborne (M.L.). And lie is not
60 yet.
One at least of the expectant heirs of
the Hobbs millions, who are an army in the
llawkesbury district and elsewhere, will not
enjoy any of the money. Old John Small-
wood, born at Pitt Town 81 years ago and
a resident of the district all his life, died
the other day. He was a grandson of the
John Hobbs who got his Ilawkesbury grant
in 1793; it was that Hobbs’s brother, dying
childless, who left the money which is
alleged to have grown to millions.
The late “Book Arcade” Cole may have
been a merry old soul, but some of Ills
pleasure he took in a curious way. In a
warehouse in Little Collins-street stands a
monument to a remarkable hobby. It is an
immense pile of flat cardboard boxes con-
taining newspaper-cuttings collected for a
generation. Every box is indexed and every
subject under the sun is represented. There
are nearly 2000 of these boxes, and practi-
cally every fact and fancy contained in
them could have been gleaned from a good
encyclopaedia.
A note from Fred Johns:—
The Bulletin cited Josiah Symon as the only
original Senator from S. Aus. left. His former col-
league I). M. Charleston is still alive; he was 80
on May 27 last.
With a Rockefeller Foundation Scholar-
ship Dr. H. J. Wilkinson leaves his Sydney
lectureship in anatomy to go abroad and sit
at the feet of the, best of the world’s anato-
mists. An Adelaide product. Wilkinson
graduated at the local university, but passed
to Sydney to a job. It was Professor John-
nie Hunter who secured him for the anatomy
department. The present scholarship worked
out, he must return to his own university.
The N.S.W. Full Court gave its recogni-
tion to six fledgling solicitors and 11 bar-
risters last week. One of the latter is Wil-
fred Russell Blacket, a nephew who will
carry on the name of the distinguished K.C.
who was a sub-editor of The Bulletin
before he went to the Bar —and still remains
a lively contributor to his old paper. Another
new barrister is a son of Premier Bavin.
Both have been associates to Judges—
Blacket to Justice James, and Bavin to Jus-
tice Campbell. Justice Long Innes is also
threatened with the loss of his associate,
John Moverley, who was also in the team.
James Trinnick, who has just passed out
at Northcote (Vic.), aged 75, made 109 and
89 in an inter-State match against South
Aus. in 188.4; he was top scorer in both
innings. That was the match in which the
Croweaters set the Vies. 369 runs to win in
their second innings—a tremendous fourth-
innings score in those days. Victoria did it
with six wickets down.
“G.D.M.” meets “Hail Columbia” Hoover:
Herbert Hoover, the Republican candidate for the
presidency of the United States, was born in lowa
in 1874 and will be 54 on August 10. He comes
from Dutch stock. His father was a blacksmith
and agent for agricultural machinery. His mother
was a Quakeress with a reputation as a preacher. He
lost his father at six years of age and his mother
at 10, and if ever there was a self-made man he is
one. He is a poor speaker and an inferior writer
and lacks personal attractiveness. But he has great
qualities. Lionel Robinson, of Robinson, Clark and
Co., and I, after lunch at Menzies’, went upstairs to
call on him. We found him playing patience in his
sitting-room closely guarded by a secretary. He
told us he had been alone from ten till two o’clock
and had not been down to luncheon. Robinson
asked “What have you been doing all that time?”
“Thinking,” was Hoover’s reply. There was a
crisis in the affairs of goldmining in Westralia
generally, and in one mine he was superintending
in particular. He said he had worked out his prob-
lem and was ready for a meal. Robinson told me
Hoover was the most resourceful business man he
had ever met and seemed to be able to overcome
every difficulty as it arose and meet every emergency in
his daily business life. That he was as resourceful
as he was completely efficient, another able mining
engineer, Deane P. Mitchell, told me years after-
wards in San Francisco. Hoover is sound, solid
and sane about all worldly affairs, besides which he
has plenty of money, a strong physique and much
good health. So he will go far whether he beats
Al. Smith or not next November.
Tom Sykes passed out recently near
Goulburn (N.S.W.), on the farm where he
was born 88 years ago. Ilis parents lived
to be 9S and 96, an aunt missed the century
by seven months and an uncle by two years.
Incidentally, a pear-tree planted by the elder
Sykes in 1827 was two years ago bearing a
splendid crop.
An excited and voluble son of Spain and a
harassed cop searched Melbourne the other
day looking for a Spanish-speaking interpre-
ter to help elucidate the details of a traffic
accident in which Andalusia’s cart had been
involved. The Spanish Consul was out of
town, and it was not until somebody sug-
gested the Lord Mayor that matters righted
themselves. Morell spent part of his boyhood
in the land of bullfights and hadn’t forgotten
all he learned.
Echoes of an ancient romance floated round
Maori land’s Plush Chambah lately when a
Westland M.L.C. referred to the old legend
that Edward Gibbon Wakefield worked out
his ideas on colonisation while serving a
sentence in Newgate Gaol for abduction.
Francis Dillon Bell, who is related to the
Wakefields, gave the Chambah the truth
about the. matter. Edward eloped with a
girl, a minor, and married her at Gretna
Green, aided and abetted by his brother
William. She was a young lady of con-
siderable importance and wealth, the lovers
were speedily parted by her parents, and a
special Act was passed annulling the
marriage. According to F. D. Bell, “it was
proved at the time that by the honest de-
termination of the two brothers the marriage
was not consummated, and they took no
advantage of the girl or her parents.”
G. M. Colledge, recently appointed Assist-
ant Under-Secretary for Works in Queens-
land, was born in Scotland, but corrected that
error of judgment by. coming to Queensland
when but five years of age. All his work-
ing life has been spent-in the department of
which he is now
one of the heads,
and of late years
he has had the
supervision of the
administration o f
the Workers’Dwell-
ings Act. For 12
years lion. sec. of
the Queensland
Cricket Associa-
tion and one of the
original members
of the Board of
Control, he has
done a lot for the
game in the North.
Nowadays his fancy
turns to bowls.
Professor
GRIFFITH
TAYLOR,
of Sydney,
formerly of Mel-
bourne, and geo-
logist with Scott’s
expedition to the
South Pole, who
has just accepted
one of the five
chairs of geo-
graphy in the
Chicago Uni-
versity.
Hohepa Kaka, who was one of Hone
Heke’s lieutenants in his clash with the
whites back in the ’forties, has crossed the
river. As he was more than a youngster
at the time of the fighting with the British
he must have been over a hundred at the
end.
“C.Q.”: lan Evans, the Boy Scout who
saved a mate’s life at Frankston (Vic.)
(B. l/8/’2B) by sucking a snake-bite, started
life-saving early. At 10 years old he swam
out to a drowning girl in Port Phillip and
fetched her in.
R EDUCED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“After Premier Bavin had delivered his pre-sessional
speech at Chatswood, there were calls for Mr. VV. M.
Hughes, who was among the audience. The ex-
Prime Minister, in moving a vote of thanks to the
chairman, mentioned that he was merely present as
one of the State Premier’s constituents.”
Time was when he bestrode his bit of earth
Colossus-like as ever Csesar, J.
From Tasman Sea to Timor, Cairns to Perth,
Pie wrought his will with none to say him
nay.
Colleagues who sought to thwart or disobey
His ukase into outer darkness went.
And now—God bless us and alackaday !—
Pie’s merely somebody’s constituent.
Time was plain Premiers and such were
worth
In his appraisement three a penny (say),
When in their petty nostrums, or the dearth
Of such, no interest he would display.
A lordly Triton he, mere minnows they;
Ants from his altitudinous ascent
Who dominated all he could survey—
And now he’s somebody’s constituent.
Time was when in the isle that gave him
birth
PI is frown plunged kings and statesmen in
dismay,
His lightest quip moved duchesses to mirth ;
Cables ran hot his speeches to convey ;
Gold boxes rained about him on liis way;
Laborious hours distinguished artists spent
His features upon canvas to portray—
And now he’s merely a constituei t.
Time was the Commonwealth beneath his
sway
Crouched, and the Constitution sometimes
bent.. . .
I wonder if it irks you, William, eh?
To be another chap’s constituent?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


The Half-way House.
BEFORE kind sleep blots for a space the crude
Dull commonplace from over-wearied eyes,
My drifting thoughts take color, many-hued
As Queensland butterflies.
When up the west the last pink cloudlet clambers,
And pale eve gathers close her mantle grey,
The black swans sweep across the sunset ambers
Into the dying day.
Was that a breath from memory’s wild-wood garden,
Shaking adrift from tumbled bud and flower
Their rifled sweet, some air of faery Arden
Re-echoing to this hour?
1 see, ere sleep with wings of tender quiet
Shuts out these changing fancies from the mind,
Tall dandelions in a olden riot
Dance in a golden wind.
And down that way the rutted road went looping,
And through those feathery bordered lanes would come
At last to where the dusky pines were stooping
Above my mother’s home.
If 1 could go that grassy way to-night,
Now tangled with the knotted growth of years!
But all its sunlight speaks of lost delight;
And all its raindrops, tears.
Shut out, O sleep, these visions, fading fast!
Need I relearn the lesson once again
That all the doorways to the imaged past
Turn with the keys of pain?
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


N EW VICTOR! ES
for the
Perfected
Whippet
The Whippet with its proven
superiority in Economy, Performance,
Quality and Stamina is daily outdistancing
its previous great sales records
Public confidence in
the quality and unusual value of
this car is based on its superlative
performance in the hands of more
than 200,000 owners who have found
it supreme in power, speed, econ-
omy and stamina. Every mail brings
the story of the new Whippet tri-
umphs not only in this country, but
in every part of the world.
Modem The Whippet is still far
ahead of all other light cars in its
modern features of construction and
equipment. No other car of its class
offers all that the Whippet offers.
Silent timing chain— For quiet en-
gine operation, as on expensive cars.
Force-feed lubrication The effi-
cient type of oiling system found
on highest priced cars.
Petrol tank in rear Safely away
from the engine and electricalwiring.
Oversize balloon tyres For ex
tra mileage and added comfort.
Snubbers Another reason why
the Whippet is the easiest riding
light car on the road.
Roominess—Unique body and dash
construction provide ample leg
room for tall passengers.
Speed— ss miles per hour easily, and
many owners report 65. A specially
prepared stock Whippet set up a
speed record of 71.6 miles per hour
in a 50-mile run on the Rockingham
Speedway, U. S. A. The Whippet’s
low centre of gravity keeps the car
safely hugging the road—accelerates
5 to 30 miles per hour in 11.5 seconds.
Whatever your resources you
should see what this car offers in
motor values. Drive it. You will be
delighted with it.
Adjustable steering post Easily
adjusted for the convenience of any
driver of any size or stature.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED, 148 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY., LIMITED, 117-21 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
Eo G. EAGER & SON, LIMITED, Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, Franklin Street, ADELAIDE.
ADAMS 1 MOTORS, LIMITED, 442 Murray Street, PERTH.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LIMITED, 53-56 Bathurst Street, HOBART.
WILLYS-OVERLAND FINE MOTOR CARS


§4^
Regular patrons who may require
accommodation for the Congress
should not fail to notify us at once.
\1
nl
r f
l m
Iwa
n- it..
m
rr
r r
<SE
Fhi
rr
: I
ms
■■r
taaaaaaaaaal
“ —after all, there’s only
ONE ‘Australia.’ ”
As reservations at “The Australia will free
you from further worry and from any fear
of overcrowding, it is advisable to write or
wire us immediately. Telegraphic address:
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
(Capital Paid Up, £422,100.)
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH, SYDNEY
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Grand Opera
Royal “The Silent House”
Criterion “Sexes and Sevens”
Palace “Mr. What’s-His-Name”
Empire “Top Hole”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Regent Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Hit the Deck”
Roy'al “The Patsy”
New Comedy “The High Road”
Athenaeum “New Brooms”
King’s “The Rudd Family”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
—*
Ettore Cesabiancha is the knightly gentle-
man in “Tannhauser” who, having torn him-
self away from Venusburg, spoils his chances
of a virtuous future by his vocal reminiscen-
ces of a hectic past. Whatever losses the
philanthropic Taits contemplate shouldering
over their enterprise, they spared no expense
to make the "“Tannhauser” backgrounds as
spectacularly perfect as those of the preceding
show. Luisa Bonetti, carrying considerably
more feathers than a Venus is expected to
wear, raised dramatically interesting objec-
tions to the departure of Tannhauser; the
lady who might have been his saving grace
but for his recollection of voluptuous plea-
sures when lie took his part as one of the
competitors in the Ballarat musical carnival
of the period, was Hina Spani. The scene
in the Valley of the Wartburg, with Spani
giving tender pathos to Elizabeth’s Prayer
as a preliminary to dying for true love’s
sake, and Brownlee imparting thrilling emo-
tion to “O Star of Eve,” was especially
interesting. Umberto de Lelio provided the
Landgrave with a sonorous dignity; Aurora
Rettore sang the Shepherd’s Pastoral melo-
diously ; and the Pilgrims’ Chorus was a
piece of meritorious work.
* * * *
The Grand Operators turned to musical
melodrama again with “Rigioletto.” Toti dal
Monte was a memorable Gilda; her “Caro
Nome” won a tumult of applause. In fact,
the night was definitely Toti’s, whose pas-
sionate pleading for her lover’s life was
ample compensation for minor shortcomings
—such as the lack of robustness displayed
by Lomanto in “La Donna e Mobile” and
Ghirardini’s inability to put the necessary
gall into the jests of Rigoletto and his ten-
dency to forget the hunchback’s limp. In
the dramatic passages, however, he left
nothing to be desired, while the Sparafucile
of Fernando Autori and the Monterone of
Satariano called for high praise.
* * * *
A new height of splendor was reached
with the arrival of “Turandot” on Saturday,
when every section of Her Majesty’s was
crowded. The Princess Turandot makes a
MARY BRACKLEY, the lady who is such a help to Percy Hutchison’s “Laughing
Optimist,” at the Sydney Palace.
is prepared to oblige the lady by being exe-
cuted if she can guess his right name;
whereupon she threatens to put to death
all the inhabitants of the city unless the
name is discovered. Torture applied to those
he loves causes Calaf to spill the beans him-
self, although the slave girl Lui kills herself
rather than break silence—Luisa Bonetti im-
proved upon her success in “Tannhauser” in
that part; but the cold Turandot, given a
superb dignity and restraint by Arangi Lom-
bardi, discovers that she really cares for the
hero, when his life is in her hands ; Francesco
Merli finely represented the princeling. The
music is in keeping with the gorgeous Orien-
tal color; Bavagnoli made the most of its
magnificence. Corrado Zambelli, as Calaf’s
dad, an exiled Tartar king, and Gliirardini,
I’arodi and Cilia, as the Gilbsullivan counsel-
lors, Ping, Pang and Pong, were the main
outside helps. The useful Cilia was also
the Emperor Altoum, a whiskered potentate
content to sit above a mighty flight of stairs
while his daughter ran the show.
* * * *
“Turandot” is to repeat itself to-night
(Wednesday) and on Friday; barring the
special performance of “Boh&me” and
“Otello,” which was billed for last night
(Tuesday), with Melba in it, “Don Pas-
quale” (Saturday) is the only first-night
for this week.
* * *
In a railway accident Adolphe Noblet loses
his memory; he alsio loses his wife and his
business as a sauce manufacturer, but, his
capacity for affection and commerce being
unimpaired, he acquires a new wife and
family and a prosperous connection as a
hairdresser. In that capacity he goes to the
house of the original wife, also re-married,
to dress her liair; and the usual hilarious
tangle ensues, helped by the fact that Noblet,
who has taken the name of Trebel, doesn’t
know the earthquake he is causing. This
is the foundation on which is built “Mr.
What’s-His-Name,” produced at Sydney
Palace on Saturday. It is to the credit of
Percy Hutchison, who doesn’t even endeavor
to look like a Monsieur, that he and his co.
make little attempt to take the play seri-
ously, being content to go for the laughs with
joyous abandon. Stella Francis, as Madame
Oorton-Noblet, carries the burden of two
husbands with fortitude; Rayson Cousens,
as an auto-suggestive doctor, and Townsend
Whitling give some valuable assistance.
# *
“Robbery Under Arms,’’ although shorn
of some of its old glory, gave a Sydney
Grand Opera House audience a perfectly
satisfactory night on Saturday. Old theatre-
goers might have missed the booming tones
of Ed-mund Holloway; but the coach-
scene wakened lively enthusiasm, and one
house showed throughout the usual sympathy
with gallant outlaws and detestation of vil-
lainous police. Lynwood Roberts was a
moderately robust Captain Starlight; and
Zara Clinton was the designing adventuress,
hobby of hurrying to their execution suitors
who are unable to answer three questions;
Prince Calaf takes a chance, undeterred by
having seen the Prince of Persia suffer the
penalty on the walls of the Great Violet City of
Pekin, and achieves the correct guesses in the
magnificent surroundings of the Imperial
Palace. The foolhardy young man, however,
whilst Beryl Barraclough portrayed the lady
whose love for George Storefield (Paul Fur-
ness) Starlight chivalrously helps.
* * *
Bert Bailey is looking in at the Newtown
Majestic for a week commencing from Satur-
day next with the never-failing “On Our
Selection.”
At Sydney Criterion “Other Men’s Wives”
is to supersede “Sexes and Sevens” at an early
date. The Empire will introduce “Models”
next Friday with the. film “Mother Machree”
to assist. Moscovitch continues “The Silent
House” at the Theatre Royal; and "Rio
Rita” appears to have made the St. James
a permanent address.
* •* *
The Ingenues are still lending their
attractive presence to the Sydney Tivoli; but
Schistle’s marionettes
will depart before the
end of this week. At
Fullers’ Theatre the
revue has been changed
to “Merry Moments.”
“Because I Love Her,”
sung by Bert Lee in
the course of the fun-
medley, is something
that should hit the
taste of the morning
milk-boy.
Alfred Gordon Kal-
mikoff, with a com-
pany he has had in
hard training for the
event, is going to pro-
duce Schiller’s “The
Robbers” at the Maj-
estic (Sydney) on
Saturday fortnight.
In the British-made
“Nelson” film, shown
at Hoyt’s De Luxe
and Strand (Sydney),
the repetition of battle
scenes, all treated
similarly, is more bor-
ing than thrilling; and
the Nelson touches
are di s appointing.
Still, there is plenty
of love interest, and
some scenes of in-
tense pathos, such as
that depicting the
hero’s sundering from
his wife and his eager
welcome of the sym-
pathy shown him by
Lady Hamilton. The
Regent is to change
from “The Garden of
Allah” to a Mary Pick-
ford film, “My Best
Girl,” on Saturday.
The Prince Edward,
for morning sessions
only, has brought back
“The Golden Road,”
which had a great run
at the Adyar Hall, where “The Miracle of
Lourdes’’ is mow on view.
* * *
Melbourne Repertory Society’s version of
Ibsen’s “An Enemy of the People” at the
Playhouse was distinguished, in present
writer’s opinion, by the immense effectiveness
of the “participants in a meeting of citi-
zens” in the fourth act. Producer Clewlow
had the anonymous and addle-headed mul-
titude arranged to wonderful effect and from
the d.-c. the scene had the sombre impressive-
ness of a Hogarth cartoon. The principals
were not of the same high order of merit.
The Dr. Stockmann of W. H. Chandler was
the last person to denounce bribery and cor-
ruption in high places and stupidity in low;
and the voicing of his determination to carry
on the fight, after the final curtain, fell on the
ear more like a pious aspiration than a
trumpeted defiance. Sylvia Archer, as his
daughter Petra, had little to do but look
as if her costume needed a pair of bloomers
and a solid-tyred bike to make it complete.
Mrs. Stockmann’s deep insight into the
general futility of things was effectively
translated into a pathetic wistfulness by
Kathleen Salter. Terence Crisp’s Aslaksen,
the printer, was rich in the suggestion of
Dickensian caricature of a humble soul. In
a make-up reminiscent of R. L. Stevenson
in middle-age, H. R. Hone gave vehemence
and a pair of long legs to Biling, of the
People’s Messenger; while George Faulk-
ner gave incisiveness to the editor of that
ignoble rag. Charles Dougherty, as Bur-
gomaster Stockmann, was a towering emblem
of authority who looked and talked as if he
had swallowed his official staff.
* # *
“A Sport of Hollow-log Flat,” the bush
farce presented by Bill Ayr at Melbourne
Palace on Saturday, is a rambling enter-
tainment, made willing by an energetic crowd
of players. It has a bookmaker hero, which
is an innovation; also a bookmaker villain,
to balance matters. Life is too short for
one to follow up all the ramifications of the
plot, but its chief features are a maiden
aunt who leaves her money to the bad book-
maker on condition that he marries the
heroine by a certain date; failing which, the
good bookmaker comes into the fortune. Up
to the third interval the odds are all in
favor of the villainous McShortodds, since
the girl is in his power; but though The
Bulletin did not see the last act, it is pre-
pared to bet a level fivepence that virtuous
bookmakerdom was rewarded m the end.
Millie Ayr, Bill Ayr, Bertie Wright, Les
Warton and Charles M. Keegan were the best
of an industrious lot and some of them were
good enough to deserve a better play,
* * *
A second glance at “Hit the Deck” at liis
Majesty’s (Melbourne), reveals a much un-
proved entertainment. The slummocky first
IDA MANNARINI, as the music master in the grand opera
“Manon Lescaut.”
act lias been tightened up and the encores
of undistinguished items have been reduced
to proportions satisfactory to all but the
most avaricious and undiscriminating theatre-
goer. A Chinese chorus continues to be an
absurd intrusion into May Beattie’s negro
spiritual—or is it May Beattie who in-
trudes into the Chinese chorus? But nobody
expects consistency from an American naval
comedy which has been converted into a
British ditto by the simple process of chang-
ing “gobs” into “tars.”
* * *
“The Rudd Family” backs out and “When
London Sleeps” drives in at Melbourne
King’s on Saturday.
¥ * *
Charlie Chaplin being in possession of the
civic hall, pianist Moiseiwitsch will open at
the Auditorium on Saturday in Melbourne.
“The Patsy” continues to reduce audiences
to a deliquescent state at the Royal, and
“The High Road” is satisfying the modest
requirements of the little Comedy. “The
Rudd Family” is keeping the dingo from
the door at the King’s.
* * *
“The Flesh and the Devil” is trading on
a sound box-office title and some sensational
loving by John Gilbert at Hoyt’s Melbourne
emporium this week. It more or less derives
from Sudermann’s novel, “The Undying
Past.” In “A Dog of the Regiment” at the
Majestic, Rin-tin-tin is competing with a
Teutonic beauty for the affection of a young
American airman. The way the animal
rescues the aviator from' a blazing ’plane
would win the unstinted admiration even of a
Monaro stockman.
# * *
“Pictures” in Adelaide are nicely contrasted
this week. Sob-stuff (with comic relief) at
the Regent in “Mother Machree”; Jewish
humor by George Sidney, and German by
Australia’s old friend Albert Gran, at the
York; an uncomfortable Woman with a
Whip (Estelle Taylor and Tony Moreno) at
Wondergraph; and Wallace Beery uproari-
ously funny at the Pav. “Princess Charm-
ing,” at the Royal, is the most satisfactory
musical comedy for a long time past. Music
and dancing adequate, story and dialogue
musically powerful and witty, Dandy and
Miss Reece an appealing pair of lovers, and
really fine acting by Leslie Holland, Cecil
Kelleway, Yvonne Banvard and Gawthorne.


INSURE WITH THE
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
16 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Manager.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres,
The “Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of
RENDROCK,
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known.
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney
JUST PUBLISHED.
“Geophysics in Mining”
BY E. DE HAUTPICK, F.G.S.,
FIVE YEARS’ PRACTICE.
INVENTORY OF PRINCIPLES & RESULTS.
“Radium: Future Use”
Television—Gamma Rays.
BY E. DE HAUTPICK, F.G.S,
“How Radium Occurs
in Nature”
Forms of- Radium Ore Deposits.
Radium Future Supply (South Australian
Radium Possibilities).
BY E. DE HAUTPICK, F.G.S.
Author of “THE SEARCH FOR RADIUM”
(London, 1910). Forthcoming Volume—
“ Are There Oil Prospects
in Australia?”
BYE. DE HAUTPICK, F.G.S.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Bank of Commerce.
To Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1917 .. 62,477 3 p.c. = 35,960 26,517 116,759
City Rank of Sydney purchased.
1918.. 80,255 4 p.c. = 47,947 32,308 149,067
1919.. 97,256 5 „ „ 59,934 37,322 186,389
1920.. 108,391 si„ „ 65,967 42,424 228,813
1921.. 129,578 6i „ „ 78,000 51,578 280,391
1922.. 127,196 7 ~ ~ 84,000 43,196 323,587
1923.. 130,678 7 ~ ~ 84,000 46.678 370,265
1924.. 133,253 7 „ „ 84,000 49,253 419,518
Inscribed deposits of £958,307 exchanged
for fully-paid shares, of which £638,872
were issued, the balance, £319,435,
being added to reserves .. .. 738,953
Premiums on new shares, £441 . . 739,394
1925.. 170,766 7}p.c.= 115,600 55,166 794,560
1926.. 197,943 8 „ „ 147,200 50,743 845,303
Premiums on new shares, £131,120.. 976,423
1927.. 208,067 8 p.c. = 157,827 50,240 1,026,663
Premiums on new shares, £6BBO .. 1,033,543
1928.. 216,742 8 p.c. = 176,640 40,102 1,073,645
The increase in profits may be due to the
fact that nothing was visibly written off
premises last year, whereas the £lO,OOO p.a.
put aside for that purpose during the pre-
ceding seven years has always been deducted
from the net results before they were shown
in the table. The board wrote the year’s final
figure (£210,742) at £1326 less than in the
previous term. There was an additional
£13,761 of capital and £6BBO of share pre-
miums to help; also £817,421 had been added
to deposits during the year. On the other
hand, acceptances, etc., were £625,100 less
than at the previous balance, advances were
down £56,797 and liquids were £314,040
stronger. Moreover, the bill for taxes was
£5803 higher. All told, it is not surprising
that the ratio of net profit to average capi-
tal dropped to 9.8 p.c. compared with 10.5
p.c. in the previous year. To pay 8 p.c. on
present capital shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined) at June 30 had to
earn only 5.3 p.c. Actually average funds
netted 6.6 p.c. compared with 7 and 7.3
p.c. in the two preceding years.
Since the 1910 reconstruction the board
has pursued a conservative policy. For a
while progress was slow; it became more
marked after the business of the City Bank
of Sydney was taken over in 1917, and for
the past decade disclosed profits have been
kept on a pretty even keel.
The next comparison gives an idea of
how the business has been pushed ahead:—
Advances Profits
Paid per £1 p.c. Av.
Capital. Advances. Capital. Profits. Capital.
1915.. £1,195,831 £3,980,587 £3.3 £55,336 4.6
1920.. 1,200,000 7,176,809 5.9 108,391 9
1922.. 1,200,000 8,157,958 6.8 127,196 10.6
1923.. 1,200,000 9,172,613 7.6 130,678 10.9
1924.. 1,200,000 9,351,298 7.7 133,253 11.1
1925.. 1,840,000 9,123,345 5.0 170,766 11.8
1926.. 1,840,000 10,334,004 5.6 197,943 10.7
1927.. 2,194,240 11,463,057 5.2 208,067 10.5
1928.. 2,208,000 11,406,260 5.2 216,742 9.8
By 1925 the position had so improved that
the old 4 p.c. deposit stock was converted
into shares. This added £638,872 to paid
capital and £319,435 to reserves. Also it
greatly enhanced the bank’s reputation. A
lift in the div. rate followed; for the past
three years shareholders have had 8 p.c. And
that called for less than two-thirds of the
total net earnings.
The expansion of the business is shown
next from another point of view :
Inscribed Other
Deposits. Deposits. Liabilities.
1910 .. £1,859,022 £1,716,477 £762,813
1915 . . 1,614,689 3,016,323 347,081
1920 . . 1,413,657 8,108,526 1.063,051
1922 .. 1,330,507 9,403,111 970,589
1923 . . 1,287,625 10,257,268 991,595
1924 . . 1,245,116 10,342,440 1,250,361
1925 . . 244,079 11,294,435 1,149,263
1926 .. 200,963 12,463,529 1,366,196
1927 . . Nil 13,201,514 1,859,653
1928 . . Nil 14,018,935 1,234,553
Over 82 p.c. of the bank’s deposits are
gathered in N. S. Wales, and most of the
balance in Queensland. The drop of £625,100
in other liabilities is mostly on account of
acceptances—not a bad sign. At June 30
the bank was holding £4 13s. 2d. of the
public’s money for every £1 of its own
funds, compared with £4 15s. lOd. and
£4 6s. sd. in 1927 and 1926 respectively.
Booked at from that point, there is no imme-
diate need for more capital; on the other
hand, the lending connections can be ex-
panded with safety. When accounts closed
depositors and others could see 9s. of every
£1 of their money held liquid as against Bs.
in each of the two preceding years:—
1925. 1927. 1928.
Coin and bullion.. £922,873 £801,194 £786,887
Aus. notes and cash
with C’wealth Bank 965,073 1,464,784 1,124,058
Gov. securities, etc. 535,773 351,318 730,211
Owing by other banks 418,542 474,383 512,379
At short call in
London . . .. 632,555 349,542 1,439,192
Bills on London.. 2,348,785 3,096,712 2,259,246
£5,823,601 £6,537,933 £6,851,973
Owing to the early closing of the export
season bills on London are £837,466 lower
than at the previous balance. For the same
reason the maturity of export bills piled up
the London cash balances. The increase of
£378,893 in Government securities largely
represents the bank’s share of over
£10,000,000 of Commonwealth loan left on
the hands of the underwriters in January
last.
The slackening in advances, which fell
back to 81.3 p.c. of deposits compared with
86.8 p.c. in 1927, reflects the action taken
by the banks generally to correct the over-
strong demand for accommodation in the
previous year:—
Liquid. Advances. Premises.
1910 .. £1,185,979 £3,754,889 £367,727
1915 .. 1,921,588 3,980,587 357,237
1920 .. 4,374,093 7,176,809 499,145
1922 . . 4,031,672 8,157,958 465,163
1923 . . 4,507,720 9,172,613 453,421
1924 .. 4,094,626 9,351,298 438,511
1925 .. 5,823,601 9,123,345 433,991
1926 . . 5,986,849 10,334,004 453,738
1927 .. 6,537,933 11,463,057 365,306
1928 . . 6,851,973 11,406,260 305,220
Over the area covered by the bank prospects
are for another good season.
Market rumors of a possible lift in the
div. rate sent offers for the scrip to 355. lid.
a month ago. The price is now around 335.
6d.; at that figure the immediate return is
only 4.7 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The
backing amounts to 295. Bd. in net tangibles.
G. J. Coles and Co., Ltd. (Melbourne).
With a capital of less than £lOOO and a
staff of seven, the Coleses opened their first
store at Collingwood (Vic.) in 1913. But
it was not until after the brothers had
returned from the war that a start was made
to build up a chain of stores in which the
top price of any article sold is 2s. 6d.
The present co. was registered under the
Vic. Proprietary sections in 1921. At June
30, 1924, paid capital was £32,415, and
reserves £4OOO. The co. then owned three
stores, and the year’s sales totted up
£190.982, of which £13,180 (--•■40.6 p.c. on
capital) was net profit, and shareholders
got 20 p.c. Since then the board has pursued
a vigorous policy of expansion; each year
fresh capital has been got in, and one or two
more stores have been added to the chain.
The result has been extraordinary; last
year’s sales amounted to no less than
£1,052,882. The next figures show not only
that turnover has bounded ahead, but (much
more important) that profit-making has not
been neglected:—
No. Ord. Reserve
June, Stores. Sales. Profit. Div. Fund.
£ £ £
1925.. 5 372,409 19,633 27$ p.c. 10,000
1926.. 6 563,466. 31,205 28f „ 20,235
1927.. 8 837,621 51,848 26$ „ 46,210
Go. reconstructed; goodwill written
up £62,000 and £108,210 of
reserves capitalised.
Pref. Ord. Re-
p.c. p.c. serves.
1928.. 10 1,052,882 52,030 8 12$ 15,040
In July, 1927, the proprietary was con-
verted into a public co. In the reconstruc-
tion goodwill (£64,000) was written up
£62,000 • thus nominal reserves advanced to
£108,210. All reserves were then capital-
ised, the ords. getting one bonus share for
each share held. At the same time £20,000
of pref. capital was converted into ordinary
shares, and paid capital became £236,420.
After that 36,440 ords. were issued for cash,
and again in January of this year 15,505
ords. were taken up by the staff at a pre-
mium of 25., and -75,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs.
were snapped up by the public. All this
made paid capital £363,165 in 75,O()0 prefs.
and 288,165 ords. Since the close of accounts
at June 30, 63,835 ords., including 12,700 to
the staff, have been issued at a premium of
ss. each. The money is wanted to finance
the co.’s property purchases and improve-
ments and for the further expansion of the
business. When all the cash on the last
issue is in, paid capital will be £427,000,
and reserves (£15,040) will benefit by
£15,959 of share premiums. A p.c. div.
to the ords. will then call for £44,000.
_ Of the 10 stores operating at June 30
nine were in Melbourne and suburbs and one
in Sydney. In addition there is a Mel-
boure warehouse and a buying and shipping
office in London. Incidentally, about 40 p.c.
of the co.’s purchases are Australian-made
and about 37 p.c. comes from Britain.
During the year the co. took a 21-years’
lease of part of the premises formerly occu-
pied by the Civil Service Stores in Pitt-
street, Sydney, at a rental of £20,000 p.a.,
and business commenced there a few weeks
before the close of accounts. This branch
was an immediate success. Another store
was opened at Richmond (Vie.) in Novem-
ber, 1927. The spring in the year’s sales
was £215,261. Gross profit was £276,767,
and exes., including £10,421 put aside for
taxation, £224,737. When the books closed
there was £30,613 coming bo creditors,
£11,679 to the bank and £160,000 was owing
on freeholds that had cost £246,300. Lease-
holds were in at £25,205; fittings, £31,857;
stock, at cost or under, £237,914 ; cash and
book debts, £3129.
In Dec. last year the 00. bought Cole’s Book
Arcade, Melbourne—the figure mentioned
was £200,000 —and a model store is to go up
on the site. To finance the building prei’.
shareholders are to be offered the balance of
the pref. capital (£75,000) early next year.
To what extent purchases of freeholds and
outlay on buildings will" affect the return on
capital remains to be seen.
Including the £75,000 to be issued and the
capital issued since the close of accounts, the
backing for the 150,000 prefs., which have
priority as bo capital, will amount to over
£3 10s. per share, and last year’s net profit
was over four times their full annual require-
ments. The market prices them around 245.;
at that figure the return is 6J p.c. Only the
prefs. are listed at present. The ords. are,
however, fairly well scattered and, of course,
tightly held.
Peters’ American Delicacy Co., Ltd.
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 25,647 13J p.c. =r 15,000 10,647 14,594
1923.. 17,932 11 „ „ 15,005 2,918 11,676
Reserves.
1924.. 30,464 10 p.c. = 15,000 15,464 3,78.8
Unexplained addition .. 47,644 51,453
1925.. 36,200 10 p.c. = 20,224 15,976 67,408
Unexplained additions . . 30,614 98,022
1926.. 43,175 llg p.c. = 26,250 16,925 114,947
Unexplained additions . . 43,964 158,911
1927.. 53,539 13J p.c. = 36,024 17,515 176,426
Unexplained additions .. 63,578 240,004
1928.. 66,298 13J p.c. = 48,953 17,345 257,349
To meet the outlay on new buildings, and
plant at Redfern, Manly and Newcastle,
the board issued 111,364 new £1 shares at
par last year. These were called to 155.,
and that made paid capital £383,523 at
June ,‘3O ; it was only £150,000 in 1924. For
the most part the money has gone into
plant which has greatly assisted in keeping
down production costs.
The turning point in the co.’s career was
reached about seven years ago, when F. A. B.
Peters came back from America with a
special cake cone, and that set sales on the
up grade. Turnover got a further big lift
a couple of years ago when the co. provided
refrigerating cabinets; these assisted the
retailer by reducing his risks. At the close
of accounts in 1927, 800 of these machines
had been installed, at a cost of about £lOO
each, and a further 450 were then afloat.
This and the expansion of the Newcastle
business were big factors in the spring of
£12,759- in last year’s declared net profit
(£66,298), which was 18 p.c. on average
capital compared with 19.7, 19.1, 17.9 and
19.2 p.e. back to 1924.
And the probabilities are that actual
profits were better than those stated. Since
1924 provision for depreciation and contin-
gencies has been lumped with general and
taxation reserves. Last year £63,578, or
£19,614 more than in the previous year, was
put into that cupboard without comment,
making a total of £265,255. How much of
that, if any, is true profit the “Wild Cat”
does not know, and even those inside cannot
tell within thousands. The whole of last year’s
addition, however, miay not have come from
ordinary trading operations. During the term
the co. sold its rights and agencies for
Queensland to Peters-Arctic Delicacy Co.
for £20,000 in fully paid £1 shares. These
appear amongst the assets at par; goodwill
(£25,250)_ is unchanged—-it is not treated as
an asset in the table. Since the sale prac-
tically amounts to a profit the larger ad-
dition to reserves is probably due to this.
Unless, of course, some other asset has
been written down ; and there is no • indica-
tion of that.
Here is a picture of the expansion of the
business as reflected in balance-sheet
figures:—
1924. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital.. £150,000 £225,000 £300,000 £383,523
Liabilities . . 75,086 14,088 23,525 17,669
Freehold, etc. 137,855 ' 140,329 162,129 242,393
Plant, etc... 83,262 152,419 251,425 352,678
Investments . . 4,313 4,313 28,288 39,765
Stock.. .. 7,238 7,633 15,301 9,834
Book debts .. 3,694 8,949 10,331 12,007
Cash .. .. 12 55,392 27,932
Extensions .. 52,122
In the last two years £200,259 has been
added to the book value of plant, etc.
(£352,678), and 102,064 to freehold, etc.
(£242,393). The latter was 34.1 p.c. of the
balance-sheet total at June 30, compared
with 35.5 p.c. two years earlier. The finan-
cial position was comfortable enough; at
the close of last accounts there were more
or less liquids, including stock (£9334),
totalling £49,273 to meet liabilities of
£17,669.
Incidentally, the deal with the Arctic Co.
was not as satisfactory to Peters’s share-
holders as it might have been. For one thing,
no portion of the Queensland co.’s issue was
reserved for their subscription. However,
the acting chairman has given an assurance
that shareholders will have an opportunity of
getting in on the ground floor when the Mel-
bourne subsidiary is floated. But nothing
will be done in that direction until Mr.
Peters returns from abroad.
The market, attracted by the earning power
and prospects of a new issue, pays 38s. or
thereabouts for the scrip. At that figure the
immediate return is 5.3 pi.c. on a 13J p.e.
d'iv. basis ; and the backing 335. sd. in net
tangibles, including an unspecified amount
for depreciation.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney).
Net To Re- Be-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serve!
it £ £ a
1917.. 15,350 10 p.c. = 12,000 3,350 32,43:
1918.. 16,633 10 „ „ 12,000 4,633 37,06:
1919.. 16,017 10 „ „ 12,000 4,017 41,082
Co. wound up and ss. per share ( £30,000) dis
tributed in cash.
New co. formed, assets written up and 30,000
fully-paid £1 bonus shares Issued.
June, „
1921*. 14,424 10 p.c. = 12,500 1,924 2,860
1922.. 17,852 10 „ „ 15,000 2,852 5,718
1923.. 18,556 10 „ „ 15,000 3,556 9.274
1924.. 18,392 10 „ ~ 15,000 3,392 12,660
1925.. 18,671 10 „ ~15,000 3,671 16,337
1926.. 18,213 10 „ ~ 15,000 3,213 19,551
1927.. 18,551 10 „ ~ 15,000 3,551 23461
Premiums on shares, £15,573 . . • • 38,074
Old plant revalued and specific reserves
(£11,299) taken in .. .. •• 49,973
1928.. 18,190 10 p.c. = 16,054 2,136 52,106
* 10 months.
During the year 00,000 £1 shares wer
issued at a premium of 53. each, and all but
£l2O of the money was in when the book<
were ruled off at June 30. That made paid
capital £209,881. The £74,880 thus received
and more went into the new building, which
is not earning anything yet. Moreover, busi-
ness was a little disturbed by building opera-
tions ; but, despite that, a bigger bite for
taxation (£6124 as against £5302 in the
previous year), a higher wages bill (some of
the increase retrospective) and other diffi-
culties, the board wrote the year’s net profit
at £18,190, equal to 11,3 p.c. on average
capital compared with 12.3, 12.1, 12.4 and
12.2 p.c. back to 1924.
The share premiums (£15,000) —they
mean that the new capital is costing the
co. only 8 p.c.—and £573 profit on the sale
of Government securities went to reserves.
Also the plant and furniture replacement
reserves and employees’ contingency fund,
which together totalled £13,558 at the close
of accounts in 1927, were tossed into the
general reserve, provision having been other-
wise made for these contingencies. The net
visible increase, however, was only £11,299.
so apparently £2259 was used to further
write down the book value of the old plant,
which now appeai-s at £2500. That was in
addition to whatever may have been paid
out of the year’s earnings for replacements,
etc.
At June 30, 1927, freehold and machinery
were in at £162,625. At the close of last
accounts the original freehold stood at
£120,000; the new freehold, bought about
five years ago, at £23,428 (cost) ; old plant.
£2500; so altogether £6707 more was written
off than was spent on the old property dur-
ing the year. At June 30 the new building
including something for furniture and plant,
had cost £83,310. By the time the job is
finished the outlay was expected to run into
about £150,000, so there was the best part of
another £67,000 then to be spent. But the
board gives no hint that shareholders are
likely to be called upon for any more money.
The co.’s finances are very comfortable;
at the close of accounts more or less liquids,
including stocks (£2276), totalled £44,491,
of which £40,486 was in cash, and only
£9687 was coming to creditors, including tne
bank, which would probably welcome a re-
quest from the co. for more accommodation.
Here is a comparison of balance-sheet
figures;—
1921. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. .. £150,000 £150,000 £209,881
Reserves .. .. 11,491 30,601 60,663
Specific reserves .. 500 13,558
Liabilities .. .. 9,462 8,880 9,687
Fixed assets .. .. 138,307 164,636 241,239
Stock 3,600 2,247 2,276
Cash, investments . . 29,548 35,663 42,215
The new building when finished will provide
accommodation for about 170 persons, mak-
ing the total capacity of the hotel approxi-
mately 500 guests.
In the past the co. has been extraordi-
narily successful. It paid something like
£115,000 for the property in 1905. and began
with a paid capital of £92,507. Seven years
later the mortgage had been redeemed, the
prof, capital (£21,800) returned and £45.00"
of gift scrip and a special cash bonus of
£37,500 handed out. In 1920 the co. war
reconstructed, and £60,000 fell into share-
holders’ pockets, half in bonus scrip, the
other half in cash. At the 1921 balance fixer
assets had a book value of £138.307; ex-
cluding the new property the figure ’ was


wm
.
' ■.
s§§!!§
mm
Htj
/V. ,;
■ ■
ass
&§
ip
111111 l
»£/J
H
&ssss
'
$' ' ft,
■ ■ ■■ 7:
AB»r
m
■
£/l
-1
,r-- , J
&®r§l
■
Imim 11 SSL
.... ~d
iV' '
Wj&Mmmsfjji
m
5. jS
I g
Fill in this Coupon for Patterns
as
Simply fiU in your name and address, and receive by return post complete range
of “ Mill-to-Wearer ” Suitings FREE!
Style at its Source
The acknowledged
Supremacy of
MURDOCH-TAILORING
Murdoch-tailored Suits have no superior in any point that goes
to make Suit-excellence. That your Suit will “fit you like a
glove” you can positively depend; the material and workman-
ship, too, are of' irreproachable quality. Murdoch’s policy of
Direct Trading (no middlemen’s profits) brings to you the highest
Worth accentuated by
A “Mill-to-Wearer” Low Price
Here is a case in point: A select stock of Men’s Suitings in choice
Pure All-Wool Worsteds, latest patterns and colourings of Greys,
Fawns, Lavender Greys, Blues and Browns. New fancy weaves,
Plain and Herringbone Weaves, Pinheads, Stripes, Checks, and
Tropical-weight Worsteds. Also choice fine Twill Herringbone
or Dice pattern. All-Wool Serges, pure indigo dye guaranteed.
S.B. Sac Suit faultlessly made from these
choice fabrics and tailored with
individuality and refinement
tS/3'9
TO YOUR MEASURE
Other “Mill-to-Wearer” Suits-to-Measure
at 84/-, £4/18/9; Hand-finished at £6/10/-,
£7/10/-, £B/10/-, and £9/10/-
Desk R.
Murdoch’s in Park-street , Ltd., Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —Kindly send me a range of Suiting Patterns at
“Mill-to-Wearer” prices. I am interested in Suitings priced some-
where in the vicinity of £ It is understood that I
am under no obligation to purchase unless I so desire.
Name
Address ....
B/8/’2B.
/
m
Murdoch’s ~
Peerless
looks like—
wears like—
costs less than—
SILK
THESE superb Shirts are made from “Fugiluxe”—a
soft, shimmering material that is as near as possible
to the appearance and character qualities of Silk. Gener-
ously cut and faithfully made; in
the newest and most distinctive
designs and color combinations.
With collar to match
14/6
3 for 42/6.
With two collars to match, 15/6, 3 for 45/6.
EXCLUSIVE TO MURDOCH’S. .
Murdoch's
Famous
The
“Snap
Brim ”
\
)
SHAPELY in outline, distinctive in character, the
Murdoch “Kookaburra” Pure Felt Hat comes to
you as the product of Master Hat craftsmanship and as
the supreme attainment in Hat value. “Kookaburra”
All-Australian HAT
may be had in smart “Snap Brim”
(as illustrated), also “Prince” and
“Nail Curl” styles. In all the new
season’s color tones .
21/-
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR. When ordering fondly state size and shade required. Address your letter to Disk R■
MURDOCH'S IN PARK ST LTP SYDNEY
“The World’s, Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.”


“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY”
FOR AUGUST.
Th e Great Australian
Guide to Money-making
No Investor, Trustee or Business
Man can afford to be without it.
AUGUST NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/0.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock + GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William ' Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage, Municipal Loans Negotiated. Geo. E. Dicken-
son, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant, Victoria Buildings,
Swanston Street, Melbourne.-— Advt.
* * *
The varied uses to which Pioneer Wood Pipe is
excellently suited include water supply and reticula-
tion, mining, dredging, irrigation, dairy and general
factory work, conveyance of sewage and heavy fluids,
etc. For its capacity is constant, no corrosion of
any kind chokes down the flow, and it will safely
carry any fluid. Full particulars from The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
*!* * -I: *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
❖ ❖ *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadlields’ Man sail ese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and 1 Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W,
Foundries j Bassendean, Perth. W.A.
Branch [ 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office J T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
LAUREL HILLS.
MIXED FARMING LAND IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
26 MILES FROM UILGANDRA, AT TOORAWEENAH.
FOR AUCTION SALE.
ON WEDNESDAY, 19th SEPTEMBER, 1928,
At the ROYAL EXCHANGE, SYDNEY, at 11.30 a.m.
5600 ACRES, comprising—
-2000 acres, FREEHOLD.
3600 acres, C.P. (11/- owing to Crown).
26-INCH RAINFALL. Well improved. Permanent water. 1000 acres under growing crop. 4000 acres
good wheat land. Suitable for maize, lucerne, potatoes, balance sheep-to-the-acre country.
Connected to Gilgandra and Coonabarabran by good car road. The Mendooran-Tooraweenah Railway J.i«e
has been authorised, and will bring this property alongside Rail when completed.
TERMS. —10 per cent. Deposit, 40 per cent, on completion; no payment for 4 years. Balance at the
end of the fourth year, bearing interest at 6i per cent., payable half-yearly.
For further particulars apply to —
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED, SYDNEY, and all Branches.
£134,500 at June 30. Obviously the old
property is in at a very conservative figure,
Thus the co. is well placed to earn good
divs. Practically the same team, led by W. B.
Small, an accountant with a remarkable
capacity for itemising and smelling out
leakages, has been in control since the be-
ginning.
The scrip, which has a net tangible back-
ing of approximately 255., is priced at
295. Od. on the market. At that figure
the return is 6.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
u .u n ■ -*i 1 ,
Goliath Portland Cement Co., Ltd., which
lias a nominal capital of £600,000, is being
formed to take over lasmanian Cement Pty. s
business, Railton (las.). The price is
casl1 ’ Wlth wl i lch vendor buys
~0,000 8 cum. profs, and 140,840 ords.
A further 1n5,000 profs, and 229,155 ords.
are ottered, leaving 50,000 shares in reserve,
The purchaser gets assets valued at £270,000
and undertakes to discharge liabilities not
exceeding £104,155.
The idea is to instal a new 65,000-ton
plant at a cost of £161,162, and then to
enlarge the present plant from 20,000 to
40,000 tons p.a. at a cost of £07,488; pre-
hminary exes, are expected to run away
with £40,000, leaving £11,350 for working
capital. On the sale of 110,000 tons p.a.
at £3 10s. per ton, a net profit of £90,000
is ifigured. When the whole of the present
Amo and paid, the prefs.
(£180,000) will call for £14,400 p.a. or less
than one-sixth of the estimated profit, and
the backing woiks out at £2 16s. Bd. in net
tangibles at their book yalue. The balance
0 tlie piofit (£75,600) lsequal to a shade
over 20 p.c. on the £3<0,000 of ord. capital.
Dorman, Long and Co. are to manage the
venture, and Cement Distributors Pty., Mel-
bourne, will attend to the marketing end of
the business
The danger ahead of the industry is over-
production. The Goliath Co. should, how-
ever, be well equipped to meet competition in
tile southern markets. On prospectus figures
the selling price would have to drop nearly
14s. per ton before net earnings would fall
short of the pref. requirements.
In addition to cement works, the co. owns
shale deposits at Latrobe. These are being
tested by Mineral Oils Extraction, Ltd.,
which will have a 50 p.c. interest in the
benefits, if any, from the sale or working
of the deposits. The scrip will be listed,
On the board are L. Ennis, T. S. Nettlefold,
H. J. Brock, Lt.-Col. C. Mills and Dr. J.
Ramsay.
* * * *
The mining managers asked, the Barrier
Industrial Council to resume the conference
regarding wages and conditions to operate
along the line of lode, and then realised that
even if they did meet they had nothing to
talk about to which the other side would be
prepared to listen. The consequence was
that on the morning of the day on which the
conference was to be held the managers sent
another letter saying that as conditions had
not altered since the last meeting the tenta-
tive arrangement (providing for existing con-
ditions to be continued) would be extended
until September 30. After consultation the
delegates agreed that they would not bother
about a meeting. '
* * * *
The Queensland Government is proposing
to send Chief Geologist Dunstan to Ger-
many within the next month or so to in-
vestigate field and laboratory methods of the
Elbof geophysical prospecting organisation,
This co. is one of the leading groups engaged
in the new prospecting methods, and it has
field units pretty well all over the universe.
The Taranaki survey was carried out by one
of these units, and another is being arranged
to locate structural conditions suitable for
oil on Maranoa oil areas. It is still a bit
doubtful whether the methods are applicable
to the Roma field on account of the great
depth of the present oil sand, the lack of
strongly defined folds and the possibility of
superficial boulder deposits over much of
that very flat western tract. Dunstan’s job
will be to advise the Government chiefly
on the applicability of the gravitational and
electrical methods to the potential oil-bearing
areas of Queensland, and secondly on their
success in identifying hidden metalliferous
bodies.
* =i= * *
Last week one of Australia’s richest allu-
vial gold shows and one of the least adver-
tised. Adelong Dredging Co., closed down
its -plants, which have been working for 14
years and have averaged 60oz. per week
during that time, the total recovery being
40,3200 z. The creek between Tumblong and
Shepardstown (N.S.W.) was first worked by
J. Shepard, who gave his name to the
hitter place. He worked it as an iopen cut,
but finally gave up owing to flood troubles,
but not before he had raked close on £200,000
from it. Then came Davies and Kershaw
with dredges, and they are credited with
having taken out five tons of gold. Even
now the sides of the creek and terraces con-
tain gold which would repay working by
an up-to-date plant. One party is making
good wages sluicing the dredge tailings.
Australian tin shows have been feeling the
pinch of low metal prices even worse than
the Malayan group, since most of ours are
lode propositions and costs are heavier in
proportion. One of the latest to complain
of its hard lot is Silent Grove, a Tornngton
(N.S.W) proposition, floated in Melbourne
some two years ago with a nominal capital
£50.000. Chairman-of-directors Stringer
sa y s that, owing to shareholders holding off
calls, the workings had to be closed in
September last and are now flooded I hough
exemption from labor conditions expires be-
fore the end of this year, the board hoped to
keep the property in the co.’s hands, con-
sidering that the reef was worth developing
jf sufficient capital could be obtained,
Arrangements are being made to pay off the
Hability of £2OOO to the vendor, partly in
shares and partly from future mining
profits. The directors have 9810 forfeited
shares on hand.
* * * *
Great Northern Tin’s reports from Her-
burton (N.Q.) are still cheerful for share-
holders. A winze going down in the ore
s hoot from the 400 ft. to the 431 ft. level shows
a floor 10ft. by Bft. in high-grade ore.about
joft. below the top level. As soon as the
-winze gets through the amount of ore hauled
w ;n bound nn
* * * *
Reid River limestones, on the railway near
Townsville, should supply all the fluxing
niaterial needed for Mount Isa if they smelt
on the ooast Geo logist C. C. Morton’s re-
pol.t sbows that enormous deposits exist on
f} le field, which will average from 90 to 95
per ccnt carb()nate of lime. The best de-
posjbs are within two miles of the main rail-
wa others are almost on the line .
’ !|t !|t
„ le recon t rescinding of the Queensland
Government gem pool brought in a couple
of PU va4e buyers to Anakie sapphire field,
and the hr:st four weeks operations amounted
though small, it has revived hope
° ri held, which had been very sick,
t T ° <,c * wash is reported to be pretty
sc f*’ ca ■ |ust at Present, and prospects look
cola bor any outsider contemplating a visit.
* * * *
The recoveries from the Edie Creek Pty.’s
leases in New Guinea are of special interest
because the ground is practically that
acquired by the “Big Six” a couple of years
ago as “unworkable by shovel and dish.”
The protests of the sliovel-and-dish miners
against the then Warden’s action in granting
these large leases to the syndicate were
emphatic and sustained, and led to the
appointment of a Royal Commission to settle
that and other questions. The Commission
upheld the authorities, but there has never
been any doubt that the richer portion at
least of the areas were shovel-and-dish
ground; they were worked as such during the
dispute, as were other sections ultimately
surrendered by the lessees as a compromise,
The first extensive operations on the leases
indicate that the ground is easy and payable,
On the Chisholm lease the clean-up after
sluicing—-time not stated-—was 1500 oz. gold
from IS7O c.y. On the Glasson lease 870
yards were put through for 780 oz. Even
allowing for the low price of Edie Creek
gold, this is good going. It indicates that
the miners had good reason for their lamen-
protests.
. Westralia s Labor Agent-General Bill
Angwin never misses an opportunity to talk
about the State s auriferous wealth. At
i(m„ re ? Sons of Gwaha meeting he said :
fiave a gold-bearing belt of 40,000
v* uai ® mi , and mining is sure to revive.
- u s P® . about migration. One good
ine ? 7 rl . more migrants to the country
ian Bie development of large agricultural
?w- P ° S 1 80 far as V
P asmg the population is , concerned de-
® e e/ t w-n™ mll - 8 ' j.
chance ® are that William is not far wrong.
_
. expectation of the flotation process
Proving successful m the West, London is
h m > in g capital to bring back to life the
Lancefield, at Laverton, and the Harbor
Lights, a_t Leonora, and preparations are
being made to raise the dead in other parts,
Lancefield was floated by Hoover and others
in the Westralian boom days, being then re-
garded as a big low-grade thing. So it
was, and still is, but the prohibitive cost of
treating refractory 'ore by roasting and
cy-amdation ruined the original co., whicli
' vas reconstructed, several times; and though
lts successors, a small party of Kalgoorlie
an d ex-Kalgoorlie naming men, made money
tor a while, an unsympathetic arbitration
award ultimately froze them out. Unlike
the Lancefield, the Harbor Lights ore pre-
sents no serious metallurgical difficulties,
Put the gold occurrances are irregular,
* * * *
Of the few privately-owned profitable gold-
mines in the West the Golden Age, at Men-
zies, ranks among the richest. The last
crushing, of about 100 tons, averaged over £l6
per ton, and since the beginning of 1926
the yield has been worth £7565, or over £26
per ton. The owners, two local men, deserve
a cheer for unearthing a producer of this
sort in the heart of a paralysed field.
* * * *
Gt. Boulder Co. (W.A.) announces that its
share of the bullion from the mine in 1927
amounted to £180,700. Expenditure, includ-
ing £2500 for taxation, absorbed £160,106,
leaving £20,594, which with £3233 brought
into the accounts has been carried forward.
Ore reserves increased during the year by
approximately 20,0(10 tons, but the grade
has fallen from 9.545 a year previously to
9.023 dwt.
* * * *
Freney Kimberley Oil Co. (W.A.) claims
to have struck a thick oily substance in
drilling at a depth of about 2000 ft., and
already calculations are being made by opti-
mists as to the cost of laying a pipe line
from a prospective gusher to the port of
Derby 300 miles away. The market has
risen a little, but the officials declare that
so far nothing has been discovered to cause
a boom, and anything of that nature is to
be deprecated. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment has subsidised the co. on a £-for-£
basis up to £10,200 and recently agreed to
give it a straight-out grant of £6OOO. This,
however, has not yet been received.
* $ ; * *
“Spare Towkay": The F.M.S. Govern-
ment's report on the Malayan tin industry
for 1927 does not read encouragingly for
those who hope for a decrease in output
as the means of bringing about a rise in
the price of the metal. The year’s output
has shown an increase on the previous term
of 6232 tons, the total (52,179 tons) being
the largest ever exported; average prices
were Slightly better than in 1926. The
bigger production was not due to the in-
creased number of dredges in operation so
much as to the extra energy shown by the
Chinese-run shows. Dredge production
certainly increased from 19.9 to 24 p.c. of
the total; the European proportion of pro-
duction fell from 44 p.c. to 40.6 p.c., while
the Chinese output, mostly from gravel
pumps, increased from 56 p.c. to 59.4
p.c. This shows clearly that the old
gravel-pump method of production still leads.
In Dec. last 70 dredges were at work; it is
estimated that 99 will be digging by the end
of the current year. The number of gravel
pumps increased from 577 in 1926 to 645 at
the end of 1927. An interesting comparison
is the number of persons engaged in the
industry; they totalled 229,788 in 1907 as
against 122,888 last year—an illustration
of the methods taken to economise labor in
the last 20 year® and to meet the falling off
in ground values. Though the number en-
gaged in tin-mining in 1907 was nearly
double that in 1927, the tin production was
48,429 tons, or nearly 4000 tons less.
* * * *
The early Malayan tin dredging returns
for July indicate a slight falling off in pro-
duction. Rawang got 20 tons for the third
time in four months. In June the yardage
was 97,000, and the average .461 b., while
costs were 4.9 d. The July yardage rose to
120,000, so the average flopped to ,371 b.
Costs were 3.5 d. The sluicing plant did
a little better, averaging 1.341 b. from 50,000
yards, while in June it took GO,OCX) yards to
produce the same quantity, 30 tons, when
the average was 1.121 b. Costs were 10.26 d.
in June and 12.9 d. for July. Kundang got
34 tons, its biggest production to date, but
the yardage was 130,000, which is above the
dredge’s nominal capacity. The average
dropped from ,621 b. for June, when 28 tons
were recovered, to .581 b. The tin realised
£4200. and costs were £2lOO. This gives
a working profit of a trifle over 4d. for each
of Kundang’s 125,000 £1 f.p. shares; say,
Is. a quarter. Changkat had another good
month, with 50 tons from 92,000 yards, but
the average dropped from 1.681 b. for June,
when 60 tons were recovered, to 1.211 b. Costs
were 6.6 d. per yard. Changkat. has recov-
ered 215 tons of tin oxide since the be-
ginning of April, and made a profit of
£3500 for July. Capital is £120,000, and
the £1 shares are at a premium of over 100
p.c. The Kuala Kampar Tin Fields Amalga-
mation, with one dredge laid up for 17
days, dug 446,000 yards for 135 tons, an
average of .631 b. This is not up to the June
average of .701 b., when 145 tons were won,
but costs were again low at 4.07 d. The
oxide realised £16,916, while total costs
are rated at £7583, a working profit for the
month of £9333. There are, however, two
million 10s. shares to spread the butter on.
* * * *
Among Austral Malay holdings Ivampong
Kamunting again took first place with 80.25
tons from 128.000 yards. The average,
1.401 b., was a little lower than for June —
97 tons from 146,000 yards of 1.471 b. dirt.
Costs for July were 5.6 d., nearly a penny
higher than in June. Asam turned over
103.000 yards for 30.5 tons and averaged
.661 b. as against .761 b. for June, when 38
tons were recovered. Costs, 4.5 d. per yard:
about the same as June’s. Ulu Yam, 21.5
tons from 87,000 yards, dropped from .611 b.
in June to .551 b., and costs at 5.4 d. were
slightly higher. Tliabawleik, after the June
spurt, when the recovery was 27 tons from
53,000 yards, recorded its highest recovery
for some time with 34.25 tons from 81,000
yards, but content dropped to .661 b., as
against 1.141 b. in June. Costs were 9.3 d.,
much lower than the 14d. or so of earlier
months. Twenty-three tons of the July
recovery were got out in the second half, so
the dredge must have got into higher values.
* * * *
Of the Malay Siamese shows Phin Soon is
dying game; it recovered 38.7 tons from
28,400 yards, an average of 3.051 b. The
open-cast has proved horribly expensive ; costs
were 33.4 d. With tin at £215, London—
about the price at writing-—the price of
oxide at the mine would be about £125, or
14d. per pound, which may explain why Phin
Soon, in spite of high rate of recovery, has
found it necessary to put up the shutters.
Nawng Pet, the co.’s sluicing show, also
suffers from high costs, and these have been
added to of late by a shortage of w’ater. For
July, 12,(XX) yards produced 11.4 tons, an
average of 2.121 b. compared with June’s
1.821 b. Costs, 27.6 d. per yard. The two
dredging propositions sound more cheerful.
Haad Yai dug 39,100 yards for 24.2 tons,
averaging 1.381 b. as against 2.141 b. for June.
Costs dropped from 17.39 d. to 12.9 d. Huey
Yot, which recovered 19.6 tons from 40,600
yards, averaging ,971 b., compared with June's
24 tons and an average of 1.491 b. to the
yard, also dropped its working cost from
38d. to 12d. per yard.
■]’ * :»s *
Serendah South (F.M.S.), floated by
Tanah Biji in April, 1927, announces three
calls of ss. each on the 100,000 shares now
paid up to ss. When all the cash is in
paid capital will be £165,000, of which
£65,000 was .handed out in paids. The co.’s
property is esitmated to contain 20,000,000
c.y. of lib. dirt.


□
□
A
4
□
»?>.' "A
Serves Business
as Business Should be Served l
More than 100 Burroughs styles and sizes
of machines are built to serve business in
every branch of accounting and figure
work. Whether your business be small
or large, and whatever kind, there is a
Burroughs that will help you save time
and money.
Burroughs Portable Adding Machines are made
in many styles and sizes. They are light in weight,
compad and easily carried from desk to desk or
counter to office.
Portable Wide Carriage machines are equipped
with 12-inch movable carriages, thus enlarging their
field of usefulness. They are obtainable with four
or six columns of pounds adding capacity and with
a dired subtrading device, if it is so desired.
Calculating machines take the place of unreliable
scratch-pad figuring —adding, multiplying, sub-
trading and dividing. They are rapid, accurate,
convenient and low priced.
The Burroughs Duplex adds two columns of
figures, giving a total of each and a grand total of
both; or adds several groups of figures, giving sep-
arate group totals and an automatic grand total of
all groups.
Burroughs Book-keeping Machines—more than
75% automatic—are made to post ledgers, make
customers’ statements, keep stock records, etc.
We will gladly help you solve your figuring and
accounting problems. Just write or telephone our
nearest office. No cost or obligation to yourself.
Burroughs Machines are priced from
£32 10s. for twelve months terms,
DISCOUNT FOR CASH
Sole Distributors:
IRA L. 8C A. C. BERK LTD
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Sydney
Melbourne
Rockhampton
Adelaide
Auckland
Brisbane
Dunedin
Hobart
Christchurch
Perth
Newcastle
Wellington


THE MAN WHO MAKES THE MONEY.
“Soldier settlers in conference in Melbourne complained bitterly that holdings of 25 acres and under were too small and many of them did not show any promise
of yielding a living wage after years of toil.”
CITY LAND-SHARK: Twenty-five acres! Good Lord, what do the fellows want! Why, I made £20,000 out of a 30-foot frontage simply by doing nothing


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
QUALITY - VALUE
SERVICE.
Peapes announce an advance dis-
play of the newest styles in men’s
and boys’ clothes for Spring.
These are in materials of the
tone and distinction so long asso-
ciated with all goods from The
House of Peapes.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
===== FAIRFAX & LTD. =
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.”
Diamond Rin^s
£l4/10/-
£27/10/-
£2l
£3O
ws~
£lB/18/-
£lO/10/-
Fine diamonds spec-
ially selected for fire
and &ood colour are
imported direct from
famous cutters. The
settings of pure plat-
inum and rin&s of 18
ct. &old are made in
our own workrooms,
we can thus offer
exceptional value in
hi&h'&rade rin&s.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
PLAIN
FIQURES
23 & 25 Hunter Street, Sydney 3 .
CASH
ONLY
Where Perfect Cuisine, Beautiful
Surroundings and the Spirit of
Revelry Combine to Make a
Memorable Evening’s Enjoyment.
Come Soon :: Come To-night.
You’ll be glad you came.
MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY,
THURSDAY, FRIDAY.
DINNER DE LUXE, 7.30 12/6
SUPPER, from 10 o’clock 8/6
SATURDAY-
LATE NIGHT OF DISTINCTION.
A Superb Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
Special Supper, 10 o’clock .. 12/6
True Relaxation, Substituting Joy and Delight.
DELIGHTFUL TEA DANSANT, WITH
SPARKLING CABARET,
3 to 5, 4/-; 6 up, 3/6.
Saturday, 3.30 to 5.30, 51-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“Observer” : Does the goanna deserve pro-
tection? He kills rabbits, but he also kills
lambs. A neighbor had a few lambing ewes
and noticed that three or four lambs dis-
appeared daily. I was out riding with him
in the paddock when we saw a goanna sneak
up to a sleeping lamb and kill it before we
could interfere.
* * * *
“Up North”: The Gulf abo. tribesmen
have a peculiar horror of a
whipping. A boy employed on
a pearling lugger was caught
lighting a fire in the hold. The
vessel had anchored oil the coast
right opposite his tribal camp;
his idea was to set it well alight
and then jump overboard, count-
ing on his tribesmen canoeing
out and netting a rich haul in
the confusion. He was tied to
the mainmast and word was
sent ashore that he was about
to get the hiding of his life as a
warning, particular and general.
A swarm of canoes was soon in
evidence. To the skipper’s sur-
prise, three old headmen came
aboard and, with bowed heads
and tears streaming from their
eyes, implored him to shoot the
culprit but spare the rope’s end.
The skipper was obdurate, and
an old chief stepped forward
With his nullah and begged per-
mission to dash the culprits
brains out. Seeing he had this
crowd where he wanted them for
the future, the skipper finally
released the trembling man,
made him drink a mixture that
included six packets of Epsom
salts and handed him over to
the old men on the promise of
his re-delivery within 24 hours.
Those tribesmen now make
excellent crew boys, and have
never since given any serious
trouble aboard ship.
* * *
“Lao-dali” : Vic. Fisheries and
Game Department took a rough
census recently of the platypus
population. As a result of rigid protection
Ornithorhynchus has multiplied exceedingly.
A few years ago he was regarded as practi-
cally extinct in the lower reaches of the
Yarra; but now iriost people with river
frontages above the glue factories of Rich-
mond are familiar with the inoffensive crea-
ture.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: If “Pfella’s” half-
caste friend (B. 20/6/’2S), whom I suspect
to be a leg-puller, was really using a pre-
servative in drying kangaroo-meat he was
PUTTING HIM IN HIS PLACE.
DRIVER: “Look at this blighter taking up nearly all the road.
DRIVER'S MATE: “Yes. Teach him a lesson Jamb him into the cliff."
giving himself unnecessary trouble and
throwing a veil of mystery over a very
simple operation. Preservative is not re-
quired when only lean meat is used, and
A STANDING PROPOSITION.
NEWGHUM: "Now how in thoonder do he expec’ me to milk those cows!”
kangaroo flesh rarely carries enough fat to
grease the “banjo.” The meat should be
cut in strips about 1 inch thick by 3 inches
wide and hung on a wire and sun-dried as
quickly as possible. When properly dried
it should break like a biscuit. Stored in a
dry, well-ventilated place, it will keep for
an indefinite period, but if packed in boxes
it is liable to turn mouldy or breed weevils.
Throughout South America all meat not re-
quired for immediate use is dried in this
way, and eaten raw with a handful of
parched maize, or boiled with onions, beans
and red peppers. The only salt meat I saw
in many years of wandering in S. America
was an occasional ration of the stuff that
hails from Chicago and lives in a can. If the
folk out hack cured their meat on the clothes
line or a wire-fence instead of in the harness
cask, they would soon find that responsi-
bility for their digestive troubles did not
rest entirely with the baking-powder and
soda-and-acid damper and flapjack.
* * * *
“Blowfly”: Tell “AdeL.” (B. 18/7/’2B)
that there’s no need to go to the Gulf of
Carpentaria to find mosquitoes that fly about
breaking nets. I give the palm to those in-
festing Mungle Bungle (N.S.W.). Two men
who were savagely attacked by these insects
sought refuge in an iron tank. Presently
a noise like an electric drill at work was
heard overhead, and the proboscis of a mos-
quito drilled through the top of the tank.
One of the men, seizing a hammer, dealt the
mosquito a severe blow and so riveted it to
the tank by its beak. Thousands of the
fearsome brutes were thus dealt with, but
all to no purpose; finally, in a fit of rage,
they flew away with the tank and its occu-
pants.
* * * *
“Kooragai”: On a small area on the crest
of the Macpherson Range grows a beech
tree ( Fagus moorei) which is said to occur
in no other part of Australia. It is a giant
of the scrubs ; some moss-covered specimens
reach 100 ft. in circumference at the base,
and are reckoned to be thousands of years
old. The region mentioned is part of the
bird sanctuary reserved by the Queensland
Government, and contains many of the
beautiful jungle trees that are disappearing
from the riversides south and north of the
range. In its limited habitat Fagus moorei
is a greater mystery than the bunya pines
and the palms of Central Australia.
* ❖ ❖ *
“Pigcat”: Let me tell “Up North” (B.
6/6/’2B) that there’s a worse curse than the
sea-egg on coral reefs. Almost invariably the
egg is on the under side of a nigger-head,
and a man’s unlucky to get one without
looking for it. But the wad-cutter is stand-
ing on top and waiting for trouble. It enters
the foot, cutting out a neat little circular
patch, and breaks inside. It has to be gouged
out. The sea-egg carries more guns, but
the wad-cutter has a better aim. As for the
stone-fish, the general opinion—though I’ve
never tested it personally—is that it stings
with any of its spikes, and not necessarily
with the horn on its head. Get a stone-
fish, lay him on a rock and run a blunt
knife along his ribs or any other" part of
him, and, as that knife passes, masses of
little claws, like those of a cat, unslieath,
and either from those claws or from his skin
a oondensed-milk fluid oozes. Possibly that
is the poison. The Portuguese man-o’-war,
though intensely painful—he has caused a
couple of deaths —is amenable to reason.
Don’t let the air get at the sting. Drop
in the water and rub that slimy track off
completely with mud or sand. Then it’s an
inconvenience, nothing more. But if the air
gets at it it’s an electric bur'n in its severity
and an adder in its venom. Another fine
little stinger which “Up North” omits is the
zebra fish. This fellow can make a man
dance the can-can. I know—-I’ve done it.
* * * *
“Yarri”: While on a long jaunt across
Queensland, I struck a little town where
the traveller had to tether his horse along-
side him at night to prevent it getting lost.
The quietest old mokes that never gave
trouble in other parts went astray there.
Sometimes they were lost for weeks; occa-
sionally they disappeared in the night and
were seen no more. The place was well
known as the Lost-horse Town, for
travellers who had tramped for days with
bridles on their arms talked about it far
and wide. “Look out for your nags at Lost
Horse,” was the warning to the stranger.
If the moke wasn’t in sight in the morning
it was almost hopeless to look for it;, but
the “stray” would be brought to camp within
a few hours if the owner offered a reward.
He knew it had been abducted for that
purpose, but he had no proof.
* * * *
“Wingella”: Providence, or—what? I
was getting ready for bed, and seeing the
cat playing at the entrance to our mosquito-
netting bedroom went to put. it outside. I
extinguished the light and, with the electric
torch in my hand but not lit, bent down
to pick up the cat, whose tail I could see
lying in a thin streak of moonlight. As I
bent down I jarred my elbow, and acciden-
tally switched on the torch. The light
flashed on to a two-foot death-adder lying
across the doorway, whose body I had mis-
taken for the cat’s tail. There wasn’t a
doctor within a hundred miles and I was
alone in the house, with the nearest neigh-
bor over a mile away.
(Continued on page 25.)
THE LAND BEYOND THE CITIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They have builded mighty cities wherein
restless people hive,
Where in seeking gain or pleasure through
the fevered hours they strive.
There the life is hard and hurried in a grim,
relentless rush,
With the profits to the ruthless and the
strongest in the crush.
But I know a fairer prospect under open,
cleaner skies—
’Tis the land beyond the cities where the
real Australia lies !
In the daily whirl of commerce, with its
pettinesses rife,
Where the weaker ones are elbowed to the
meaner ways of life,
Keen-eyed people seek their winnings, little
caring for the rest,
Greed a virtue, might triumphant, as the
derelicts attest.
But the ways are not so hurried and the
kinder feelings rise
In the land beyond the cities where the
true Australia lies.
There’s a sweetness in the morning when the
dewy bush awakes,
With its birdsong in the timber as the
light of dawning breaks
On the western plains and rivers, and the
great “up-country” smiles —
Where the distances are measured not in
minutes but in miles.
And you’ll see her shade and sunshine mir-
rored in her children’s eyes
In the land beyond the cities where the
real Australia lies.
Fbr the grand old bush has fashioned them
to her own brave design,
Given them a wider vision, hred in them a
friendship fine.
She has planted in their natures something
that the others lack—
Something of the open spaces from the
wider w r ays out back.
Quiet-eyed they read her secrets, and her
changing fortunes share.
In the land beyond the cities you will find
Australia there!
MAORILAND.
ROVERINA.


me
IIJ W
HS
\
7
8^
7
£
L--
X
6
'T/T/Or/l f / '’ •'*
r»
Resourceful as an Olympic Champion
To appreciate what a remarkable performer
Dodge Brothers Senior Six really is, you must
experience personally its superb luxury and
riding ease.
Compare it with cars costing considerably
more You will discover the same custom
quality in all details, the same effortless mas-
tery of highway and hill
The moderate price of this luxurious Senior
Six gives you no hint of its magnificent power,
speed, smoothness and beauty.
Harden & Johnston, Limited, Sydney .
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne .
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane — Townsville .
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide .
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth .
Brothers
MOTOR CARS
F. 5.379


The
Stock
Owner
x
W
X
who consigns Cattle, Calves, Pigs, Sheep
or Lambs to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
for sale takes a step which safeguards his interests
to the utmost, assuring him top values for his con-
signments and thorough care for his business in
every particular.
Rail or Ship Stock to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD.,
SALESMEN,
Homebush Yards, or Encggera Yards,
Sydney. Brisbane.
*Such a reputation is not won overnight
a**
.inib
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d . . ♦ ♦ 20 for 1/6
Major Drapkin «S Co., London. Branch of The United Kingdom Tobacco Co., Ltd.
rurti a
A Patent Water Pad
Holds Rupture in Place
Denyer’s Elastic
Truss, with its
patent water-
pad, is an out-
standing
achievement in
the treatment
o f Rupture.
The utmost
QIMYC*
©
skill and time ' . . ...
have been spent in devising positive support
with comfort under all conditions. Write
for full details or enclose cash with order
as under: —
Single, 30/-; Double, 407-
all SIZES.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts and
Artificial Limbs,
Dept. 1, 267 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(3 Doors from Margaret Street).
“Ess”: One-armed Bob was boundary-
riding in an out-of-the-way corner of Mt.
Wood run, in Tongowoko County (N.S.W.).
Before riding away each morning he swept
over the bare patches round his lonely domi-
cile with a grass broom, and departed back-
wards, sweeping out his own tracks. On
returning he dismounted some distance away,
and approached his door slowly, examining
the ground for evidence of callers. If there
were tracks, he studied closely the man g
footprints and the shape and size of the
horse’s hoofs. Having ascertained that he
had come from the direction of Black Gully,
dismounted near the burnt stump, stood at
the fire, lit his pipe near the ash-bed and
ridden away in the direction of Boggy Tank,
Bob worried for hours over the identity and
purpose of the mysterious visitor. And he
mostly wound up with “a good idea who he
was.” But those thrills didn’t come often.
Bob averaged one caller in six months.
* * * *
“Pick”: Since motors-cars and -cycles
have superseded horses for conveying bands
of shearers and rouseabouts to and from
the sheds, one industry at least has gone to
decay. Formerly on every station among
the shepherds and stockmen were expert
plaiters and carvers who throughout the
year prepared for a shearing-time harvest.
Greenhide halters, whips, saddle dressings of
fanciful patterns and stockwhip handles
most artistically designed were then nightly
raffled in the huts, and during a few affluent
weeks the artists drew more pay than the
whole remainder of the year afforded. But
those days are gone.
“Atherton” : I was riding over an
ironstone ridge in N.Q. when the
earth rumbled hollowly and rose
with a distinct shiver. The horse
stopped dead in his tracks and
trembled violently, rearing in terror
as a withered branch snapped from
a limb overhead. The business was
all over in a minute, but the prad
stepped like a cat on hot bricks for
many a mile after. I saw an earth
tremor cause much more serious
consequences in Cape York Penin-
sula. The cattle had been uneasy
all the afternoon, and we found
it increasingly difficult to keep
them in a mob and travel in the
required direction. At evenfall, just
as we were debating their queer
behavior, the ground rumbled from
a great distance below, then rose
in a sort of travelling wave. The
mob was away instantly. Nothing
could have stopped them, and our
horses became just as unmanage-
able. It took us a week to re-
muster the beasts with the loss of over a
hundred.
!|! $ * *
“Ullabulla”: Here’s a tip to any bushie
who makes a find of abo. relics —especially
weapons. Send the stuff to the public
museum, where, if you can’t afford to present
it, an expert will appraise its value, pay
you for it, and refund postage or freight.
Museum curators are keen on adding such
things to their collections.
* * * *
“James B.”: Father Curran, the geolo-
gist, visited Monaro (N.S.W.) to inspect
some peculiar rock formations, the oldest
inhabitant acting as guide. After chipping
off a few fragments and viewing them
through a glass, the scientist remarked, “M’m
—I don’t think they’ve been here long.”
“Well,” said his guide, “I’m here 70 years,
and they were set fast when I come.”
SHE’D BEEN THROUGH IT.
“Look, Mummy, that sheep’s got bities, too.”
“AdeL.”: At last rabbits have reached the
upper reaches of the Gulf of Carpentaria.
At sundown, when they line up on the sum-
mit of the sandhills fringing the coast to
continue their march north-west, they appear
greatly puzzled at the vast expanse of water
barring their passage. Several of these small
parties of excursionists have been noticed
in places west of Burketown, and they have
much alarmed the roving blacks of these
HE DIDN’T WANT TO LOSE HIS.
SALVARMY CAPTAIN: “Beer won’t quench your thirst, brother.”
BROTHER ( indignantly ): “Who wants to quench their bleedin' thirsht?"
parts. When the tracks are first seen great
excitement reigns among them, and when
the animal itself comes into view the tribe
hurriedly leaves the locality. If more of
these “big pfella rats” come this way, the
few remaining blacks inhabiting the low-
lands south of the Gulf will be hounded out
of their native haunts by sheer terror of
these newcomers, and stockmen will aban-
don the rounding up of hornies to go rabbit-
ing, a more profitable undertaking in these
days.
:js H*
“255” : According to “Pick” (B. 13/6/’2B),
a man prodded by a catfish is “lucky if he
appears on duty again inside of six weeks.”
I carried three-quarters of an inch of ser-
rated prong in my left heel for six weeks
and worked every day. Prompt application
of iodine after the puncture and frequent
bathing in hot salt water did the trick.
* * * *
“A.H.” : In the early ’nineties a woman in
man’s attire used to do the round of the
shearing sheds in Western N.S.W., and con-
tinued for two seasons without discovery of
herself. She could drink, smoke, swear and
shear with the best —and worst —of them.
Women shearers also figured in the early
days of S.A., when the German residents
of Halindorf contracted to shear MacFar-
lane’s sheep. All the shearers were hefty
fraus and frauleins. Men carried the sheep
to the shearers, who wore no boots or stock-
ings. A piece of stout string was attached
to a lady’s foot and one end slipped over
the sheep’s foot; then as the shearer extended
a leg the sheep’s leg would be pulled out of
the way. No tarboy was required, the sheep
being handled tenderly, with never a cut.
The ringer of the shed could turn out her
30 a day.
* * * *
“Mac-Ropus”: What do ’roos and the like
do with that little extra double-clawed toe
on the inside of the foot? It is so flexible
as to seem almost boneless, and out of
the thousands of footprints that I have
examined whilst shooting I have never dis-
covered one that showed an impression of
this toe, so it can hardly be used as a
means of support. Is it just a useless sur-
vival from primitive ancestors —-the nails look
rather too clean and bright for this to be
so—or is it meant for the special entertain-
ment of the louse?
* * * *
“Boomerang”: Very profitable to their
owners were the sapi-sapi mints of the old
days of the Trobriand Group, Papua. Sapi-
sapi was manufactured red shell money,
made from the inner layer of a bivalve
found chiefly along the rugged shores of
Rossel Island in the Louisiadc Archipelago.
A sugar-bag of the raw shell brought 125,
and made into money its value increased
fourfold to tenfold according to the keen-
ness of the trafficker. The mint was gener-
ally run by an old sea-fossil called the
breaker, who saw that the shells were broken
into the prescribed sizes —an operation that
required expert knowledge so that none ot
the valued inner red layer was wasted, (grind-
ing and polishing was performed by dusky
Juliets, who broke the monotony by swilt
flirtations with glad-eyed Romeos. Always
they chewed betel. The sapi was woiked
into earrings—26 discs in each —price 10s.
All the Papuans’ earrings went into the
bagi (caslidiox).
X * ■■■ *
“Bilcon” (B. 4/7/’2B) mentions
a sweet potato weighing 27£lb. I can re-
member one which we did not weigh but
which I think was much larger. We put
one end in the fire to roast and used the
other end as a log for a seat while our tea
was cooking.
* * * *
“Pick”: We were fishing off the rocks
at Winkle’s Point, South Coast (N.S.W.),
when a party of four Wallagan youths tried
to cross inwards over the bar at the lake’s
mouth. The breakers were tumbling high on
the sands, and the tide rushing out like a
millrace. At once the boys were in diffi-
culties. They could moke no headway
against the current, and the rollers time
after time threatened to swamp their boat.
Suddenly my mate detected the fins of
several huge sharks. When he sighted them
they were passing the inlet, but they turned
from their course, and in a trice their long
bodies were thrashing the water alongside
the boat. With frantic efforts the rowers
worked their craft near enough to the rocks,
and their steersman threw us a rope. We
hauled to safety the whitest-faced black-
fellows we had ever seen.
* x x x
“Mugwumpian” : Is there anything in the
world quite so shy as a bush kid? The
medico at Wump-wump and I were return-
ing home one afternoon when we came
upon a bush message—a note stuck _in a
forked stick by the track side. This re-
quested my friend to call immediately at
Crowther’s because Billy, aged seven, had
a very bad throat. As we approached the
farm ’ young Billy took to the scrub with
the whole family in hot pursuit, and it was
some time before he was rounded up and
made readjr for inspection. When the doc.
produced his stethoscope the kid howled like
a dingo, and two of us had to hold him while
his temperature was taken. Directly he was
released he darted like a flash through the
open door and made for the scrub again.
“Put him to bed immediately,” said the doc.,
and then he realised that his patient had
vanished. “Orl right, Doctor,” said the
mother. “’E’ll' come in quiet enough when
you’re gorn ; it’s only ’cos ’e’s a bit shy.”
x x * *
“Steve”: A busliman of my acquaintance
tells me that the inner bark of ironbark-trees
(the part nearest the sap) is the best cure
for barb-wire cuts. He uses it at once
straight from the tree, or it can be chopped
into three-inch pieces and kept in a bag,
boiling it half an hour, and applied warm
twice a day. Many cuts, he avers, heal with-
out a scar. Can anyone corroborate?
THE BOSS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’E’s always growlin’ at me day an’ night;
’E’s always gettin’ somethin’ off ’is chest;
No matter what I do it can’t be right;
’E always knows ther way ter do it best.
’E says I give ther ’orses too much chaff;
I work ’em far too long without er spell;
They don’t get brushed enough, no, not by
’alf;
’E never sees ’em what ’e’d 1 call real well.
I should ’ave finished ploughin’ long ago. ;
“Ther paddocks should be planted,” is ’is
song.
But ’ow I sho'ud ’ave done it, I dunno —
A man can’t flog ’is ’crses all day long.
Ther pigs, ’e thinks, should not get so much
milk,
It makes ’em all so flabby they don’t sell
As good pigs ought; ’e’d ’ave ’em dressed in
siik .
If ’e ’ad ’is way; satin, p raps, as well.
Yer’d think ter ’ear ’im that ’e was me dad;
’E’d talk yer blind; the likes yer never
seen;
Instead er that —well, ’e’s me eldest lad,
An’, big an’ all, he ain’t turned seventeen.
QUEENSLAND.
BOONDOOMA.


Our Service Department
This page in set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
service Department.
. Service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Io facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
Wants.
Returned soldier settler, Northern Vic.,
badlv needs left-off clothing. Man sft. 7in.
height, medium build; woman sft. 2in.;
girl aged 12, boy aged G. Will buy it..—5753.
Young man (20),, handy with tools, used
to horses, cattle,. sheep. Slight knowledge
of oil-engine repairing, can drive car, wants
employment anywhere. Would take care of
small sheep run.—s7S7.
Man long banking experience, desires
position, preferably of trust; Sydney.—s 772.
By experienced worker, milk samples
from Melbourne dairies for bacteriological
analysis and assessment of food values. Fees
moderate. (Direct to A.M., 135 Ootliam-
road, Kew, E 4.)
By inventor of safety automatic coupler
for railway, and silent needle for gramophone
capital to exploit same.—sB2B.
By highly educated lady (Sydney), post
as secretary to professional lady or gentle-
man. Refs. —5821.
Experienced man to start poultry farm,
40 miles from Melbourne, on shares. Only
small outlay requirted.—s79B.
Young man (30), well educated, with
knowledge of agriculture, wishes to acquire
practical knowledge of citrus-fruit indus-
try on well-established grove owned by pro-
gressive man in N. Vic. or Kurrajong
(N.S.W.) districts. Keep and nominal wage.
5840.
By first-class engine-driver, experienced
in tinmining, alluvial or engine work posi-
tion anywhere.—sB3B.
Lists of common Australian aboriginal
words, white Australian slang words, war
word and expressions, ana notes on their
origin and meaning.—5759.
. f Lo let on long lease, 600 acres good mill-
ing hardwood, 27 miles from Paterson rail-
way station (N.5.W.). —5748.
Name and address of agents for Burdizzio
pliers for marking small lambs.—s 469.
To sell kerosene stove, 4 burners, oven
and cabinet, used nine months. Cost £23 :
£15.—5778.
To buiy second-hand Stanley Gibbon s/s
Catalogue of Stamps of the W0r1d.”—5790.
Name and address of agents for Simplex
kerosene engines.—-5761.
To re-write stories or articles rejected
because they are not quite up to standard,
for a third of price if sold. State paper for
which they are intended.—s 766.
To correspond with Bulletin readers in
all States, Pacific Islands and abroad. (To
F. S. Evans, care L. A. Polain, Fitzgerald-
street, Northam, W.A.)
To correspond with Bulletin readers who
can supply information about Pitcairn
Island.—sB22.
.Music of piece played by Percy Grainger,
Sheep and Goats Walk into the Pasture.”
w\ ) K ' Mac Lean ’ Ilillside > East Pilbara,
To buy prints of “Menin Gate at Mid-
night” and “The Rearguard.”—sB44.
To buy clean copy of “The Great Secret,”
by Robert McMillan (“Gossip”), or ex-
change for one or two others of his works.
5842.
lo buy secondhand, “The Pioneersi,”
Black Opals” and “Working Bullocks,”
by Katharine S. Prichard.—sB43.
To buy copy of “The Golden Shanty.”—
5000.
To buy clean copies of ‘‘Britain Beautiful ”
numbers 4, 50 and 52. (To Mr. E. J. Date
9 England-avenue, Marrickville, Sydney.) ’
To sell cheap, cottagY and fruit-trees, near
Belmore (Sydney) station.—sBo4.
Information Sought.
(1) Is the South Australian petrol tax,
which in some cases has to he paid hy minors
—office lads and girls—a violation of the
pnnciple that there should he no taxation
without representation? (2) Could a con-
tract for carnage hy motor he set aside or
varied after the imposition of the petrol tax
seeing that costs of carriage have been in-
creased ? —5328.
(1) The “principle” to which you refer is
more a political slogan than 'a basis of
British law. Taxes on dutiable goods, whether
as excise or Customs duties, have to be paid
bj those who purchase such goods irrespec-
tive of whether they are voters or not, in
any British community. (2) As a matter of
common law the contractor, in the absence of
any agreement to the contrary, has to take
the risk of increased costs. If he can’t
3tand the loss he can take refuge quite honor-
ably in the Bankruptcy Court.
(1) Is it necessary to feed goldfish in a
pond where weeds are growing? (2) If so
what should I give them? (3) At what age
or size do they hrecd? (4) What water is
best to use, tank or tap? (5) What is the
name of the species that is totally black?—
0724.
(1) Yes. (2) Prepared food may be ob-
tained from dealers. Finely chopped earth-
worms, mosquito larvae, dried-fish roe. pow-
dered shrimp and dried bread-crumbs are
suitable. (3) Usually when about a year
old. The female is by that time about 2in.
long. (4) Either is quite satisfactory. Once
the weeds are well established the water
should not be changed. (5). Chinese moor.
Has anything been published about the
possibilities of generating electric power by
using some of the rapid tidal currents which
run around the Australian coast? —s424.
“Tidal Power Development” in the Com-
monwealth Engineer (l/3/’2O, page 233),
which deals with suggestions for harnessing
the tide of the Tamar River (Tas.), and
“The Power Resources of the Commonwealth
of Australia and the Mandated Territory of
New Guinea.” Information may also be
■obtained from the Institution of Engineers,
5 Elizabeth-street, or W. Corbin, 19 O’Con-
nell-street, both of Sydney.
Arc there any unimproved Crown lands
in N.S.W., suitable for dairying, available
for selection or lease f —5705.
Apply to the Dept, of Lands, Sydney, for
schedules of lands available for settlement;
then you can determine for yourself whether
any are suitable for your purpose.
(1) What salary is earned by an experi-
enced cartoonist in Australia? (2) Is car-
tooning profitable, and are there many
chances of advancement? (3) What are the
projects of a free-lance cartoonist? —s7Bo.
(1) Depends upon the value of the car-
toonist to the paper. £lO per week would
be a fair average. A few of the leading ones
receive over £lOOO per annum. (2) The
field is overcrowded, and unless the artist
possesses more than ordinary ability he will
have to struggle hard for a living. (3)
There are more earning below the basic
wage than above it in Sydney.
Our furniture was insured in my name by
my husband. Should he die, could I recover
co m p cn sation ? —5784.
If the furniture is, as seems probable, your
husbands property, you have no insurable
interest in the furniture and could not re-
cover either before or after his death. The
correct course would be to insure it in his
name, and, should he die, leaving the furni-
ture to you, to get a new policy in your
name.
11 ould the voltage of a Leclanche “B”
battery be increased by increasing the size
of the individual cells? —ssBB.
The voltage of any type of cell or accu-
mulator remains the same irrespective of
size. The EMF of a Leclanche cell is 1.5
volts, and no matter how big you make it
it won t be any more.
The family next door have a tennis-court,
and the balls are continually sailing over
into my back yard. (1) Am I liable at law
l f I confiscate the balls? (2) Are the play-
ers liable at law if they come into my yard,
searching for balls without m,y permission?
■ —5608.
(1) Yes, unless you hold them as a set-
off against damage done to your property.
(2) Yes, but litigation is not advised.
• an , r H ie d eser t-pea be grown from seed
in a Melbourne suburbf If so, when should
it be sown, and does it require any special
treatment? —s34l. 1
Yes, if the seed is sown in well-drained
sandy soil open to the sun. Sow in autumn.
should be plunged in water at
about loOddg. and allowed to soak for a few
hours until it swells.
(1) At what time of the year should
sugar-gum trees in the north-west Mallee
(lie.) be lopped? These trees are eight
years old, and have attained a height of
from 16 ft. to 25 ft., slight and tapering. (2)
What method should be followed to ensure
continuance of shapely growth? —ss29
(1) August or early September. (2) Usual
practice is to lop at 10ft. You can use axe
or saw, but the bark around the cut surface
must be trimmed up with a sharp axe.
Havelock Ellis, in his “Psychology of Sex,”
says: “The safest way in England to render
what is legally termed marriage absolutely
indissoluble is for both parties to commit
adultery.” Is that the case under Australian
State laws? —ss23.
ilieoretically, yes, since in both countries
the intention of the law is to provide a
remedy for the innocent party, not a means
of release for the guilty one. But in prac-
tice if both parties, being guilty, desire
divorce, such has frequently been obtained
by suppressing the guilt of the petitioner. In
such eases the Crown, if possessed of the
facts, has a right to intervene, and frequently
does intervene, to block the divorce.
(A) What income must a man have to be
7® me /or N.S.W. and Federal income tax?
(2) Must returns be sent in if a man is not
m receipt of the minimum income that ren-
ders him liable? —s636.
(1) £3OO per annum. (2) If in business
on your own account you must send in a
return whatever your income. If you are an
employee and your income is less than £3OO
per annum you need not send in a return.
How is time calculated under the statutes
of the Commonwealth and the State of
Queensland? Are they the same? —s6B6.
Standard time calculations are based on
Greenwich time, on the zone system Vie
Eastern N SAY, Q. and Tas. are reckoned
to be 10 hours ahead of Greenwich S A
N.T. and Western N.S.W. 9| hours fast
and W.A. 8 hours fast.
(1) What brand of malt, and how much is
used in the making of wholemeal malt bread ?
(2) Where is it obtainable? —5633.
(1) Make a yeast of 14oz. hops, 2lb malt
loz. coarse salt, 8 quarts water, 1 pint old
yeast and 1 handful flour. Boil hops with
water for three hours, then pour over the
malt. When lukewarm, add the yeast salt
and flour. Stir well, strain and bottle
Keep in cool, dry place. Use 1 teacup to i
quart of milk or water for making bread
(2) Any brewery will supply it.
How can I bore a, hole in rubber® —s247
If you want a round hole, use a circular
hollow cutter. Fit the shank of the cutter
into a brace, and bore your hole. If a
square hole is required, it can be done with
a sharp chisel. In either case, cutting will
be easier if the rubber is kept wet.
. M V mare suffers from hard lumpy swell-
ings on all four legs, and her hair is falling
off all over. She stands still in the paddock
with her head down. What is her complaint,
and what is the correct treatment? —s63o.
The symptoms are those of infestation of
bowels or intestines by blood worms, causing
aneurisms in the large arteries. Administer
two tablespoonfuls of Fowler’s solution
of arsenic in feed each morning for eight
days. Then cease arsenic dose and give a
mild physic ball. Give the mare access to
a salt lick that contains a small proportion
of sulphate of iron.
What is the amount of subsidy paid to
Burns, Philp and Go. and the W.A. State
Shipping Service for their mail service to
Darwin? —5197.
The Postal Department pays regulation
rates for any mails carried by B.P. vessels.
There is no subsidy. The W.A. Shipping
Service receives a subsidy of £5500 per
annum.
How can I get access to the share register
of a public company? —s644.
Under the N.S.W. law the share register
is open to the inspection of any shareholder
gratis and to the inspection of any other
person on the payment of not more than one
shilling. The register can be inspected either
at the registered office of the company or at
the Registrar-General’s office. If inspected
at the latter shareholders must pay the fee.
On what date did John Pascoe Fawkner
leave Van Diemen's Land for Port Phillip?
—5563.
There is no definite record. He started
off on July 21, 1835, but had to put back to
George Town owing to storms. A second
attempt was made, and an expedition which
carried out his “written instructions” (appa-
rently he didn’t go with it) landed some
horses at Port Phillip on August 29 of the
same year.
Docs black brother conduct his wars on a
voluntary or conscript basis? Is there any
age limit or exemption for cold-footers?
5645.
If an able-bodied male didn’t do his hit
hed probably be knocked on the head. Only
the too-young, too-old and those otherwise in-
capacitated would be exempted.
/ am using a home-made sheep lick com-
posed of coarse salt, Stockholm tar, turpen-
tine and phenol. 1 note that in reply to
4745 you advise against Stockholm tar' and
turpentine. Why ? —5466.
Stockholm tar, turpentine and phenol are
all closely associated, and can have little or
no anti-parasitical action in the minute
doses derived from a lick. A much better
lick can be made from salt, bone-meal and
a little sulphate of iron.
llow can I tin a soldering-iron? —s634.
Clean bolt with file or emery cloth till
bright and smooth, heat to soldering tem-
perature (just short of red-hot) ; dip bolt
in Fluxite or spirits of salt, and rub gently
with solder.
How can I store Jerusalem artichokes? —
5409.
Ilie best method is to use moist sand.
I hey should be stored in a cool position and,
after making a thin layer of artichokes,
cover with moist sand before adding the
second layer. Store immediately they are
dry.
(1) What is the unimproved land value
of N. S. Wales, including city property? (2)
What is the value of the railways?' ’ (3)
II hat do the railways cost to run per an-
num? (4) What is the revenue derived from
freights and fares? (5) How much are the
railways in debt, and what rate of interest
is paid? —s643.
(1) The unimproved capital value of rate-
able property in incorporated areas at Dec.
31, 1925, was £302,227,996. (2) Nobody
knows. They had cost £105,238,000 for con-
struction up to June, 1926, and showed a
-£830,700 on the year’s working. (3)
Working expenses and interest in year ended
June, 1926, totalled £17,769.704. (4) In the
same year, £15,042,352. (5) At June 30,
3926, £109.283,951. Average rate of interest
5.54 per cent.
(3 ) Is there an assured market for art as
applied to leatherware? (2) Where, in Mel-
bourne, could I get training in the craft?
—5765.
Work of a high standard is always more
or less in demand. Wouldn’t advise anyone
to learn the craft as a sole means of liveli-
hood as many years of experience are re-
quired. As a spare-time hobby it would
bring in pocket money. (2) Write to the
Secretary, Arts and Crafts Society of Vic.
Causeway Corner, 323 Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.
Information Supplied.
oGO2.—To make a freezing solution, mix
thoroughly lib. sal ammoniac finely pow-
dered, with 21b. powdered saltpetre. Then
crush 31b. best Scotch soda and add to the
sal ammoniac and saltpetre j stir together
and place in an ice pail with rather less
watei poured on than will dissolve the
mixture. If mixed properly, this mixture
has a temperature nearly 30 deg. below
freezing-point. The ice pail should be of
wood, and should be covered with a thick
blanket or double thickness of woollen carpet
The container should be made of zinc.—
G.M.S.”
. 5531—J am—raspberry for choice—-and
strychnine—a salt-spoonful to a pound
tin of jam—is the best bait for rabbits. Find
lii ere the bvinni( 's feed at night-
tall W itli a mattock turn over small sods of
fresh earth and on each mound place about
a teaspoonful of the poisoned jam. A rabbit
niever fails to sniff at newly-turned earth,
and so will readily find the baits. One bait
suffices to settle him, but he will eat more if
they are placed closely together.—“Wrash.”
Does Anybody Know?
Whether wire stretched under the root
?. cbl ] r ch would improve acoustic proper-
ties? If so, how to erect and what sort of
wire to use?—s49s.
How to prevent wombats rooting under
a boundary netting fence?—sss3.
Prevent a 10,000-gal. galvanised
con u & ated-irqn tank from leaking at the
horizontal and vertical joins, other than bv
concreting the whole tank?— s7oB. J
Brief Answers.
.T.M.C.: Kurrajong seeds should be sown
immediately they are ripe. Don’t soak them. Sow
in nursery rows and transplant to where they are to
be grown three years from time of sowing. Trans-
planting should take place immediately after rain,
care being taken to lift and plant the whole of the
tap r00t... .N.G.: A new co. of the sort —and of
most other sorts—is speculative E.L.1.: You do
not state the value of the Commonwealth stock. If
the item “Debentures and Commonwealth Bonds”
contained no very large proportion of debentures,
or if both debentures and stock were devised to the
doctor, the executor’s statement of the case is prob-
ably correct, since costs of probate come out of the
estate. .. .C. 8.: The wife has no grounds for divorce.
She deserted her husband and has been receiving
money from him E.T.R.: On the facts as stated,
you are liable... .C. 8.: The Sydney carried eight
6in. guns and the Emden ten 4in. The Sydney
had the heavier guns, the longer range and the
greater speed. .. .G. 8.: (1) Sydney Technical College,
Harris-street, Ultimo. The fee is £2 2s. per term.
(2) “Australian Sheep and Wool,” by A. Hawkes-
worth; “Classing the Clip,” by C. E. Cowley....
E.T.T.: (1) “Colloquial Japanese,” by Lange, is con-
sidered one of the best. (2) Robertson and Mullens,
Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne. (3) M. Ina-
gaki, Melbourne Uni. (4) Don’t advise a corres-
pondence course... .R.S.: The pictures, apparently
lithographic reproductions, have very little value....
M.A.8.Y.: Genuine old samplers of special interest
bring as high as £5. Others from 30s. to £3,
according to appearance and condition... .M.M.G.:
The paintings are not of any special value
A.M.C.: There is no Australian standard for Red
Sussex fowls. Copy of English standard posted....
C.W.G.: See reply to G.R.F. this issue G.R.P.:
You must serve two years’ articles with a licensed
surveyor and then sit for examination, particulars
of which are obtainable from J. K. Curtis, Secretary,
Institution of Surveyors, 5 Elizabeth-street, Sydney. ...
C.K.: The size of wire rope required would depend
on the sag that could be allowed, i.e., if the points
of suspension are on the same level and if a sag of
25ft. in the loaded rope could be allowed, a wire
rope of 1 Jin. circumference (approx. 4in. dia.)
would be advisable. It would cost £l4 f.o.b. or
f.o.r. Sydney. (2) Bullivant’s (Aust.)- Co., Ltd.,
331 Kent-street, Sydney C.C.S.: Write to J. W.
H. Turner, 42 Bridge-street, Sydney.... T.D.: There
is no certain or reliable method of killing a pepper-
tree when the trunk itself cannot be treated....
Speedo: The correct gear ratio for Ford, 30 x 31
tyres, fitted with Jones speedometer is 04T 9P large
gear, 17T 91* small gear. As you already have the
small 17T gear, a 64T large gear only is required,
the price of which with screws and bushes is 12s. 6d.
. ...Bunny: (1) Rabbit skins from Tenterfield dis-
trict fetch about ss. 6d. per lb. at present, averaging
all grades. (2) Depends on whether rabbits are thick
or scarce in the district. (3) Royalty charges are
seldom made. If a trapper is of good character
landowners are usually only too glad to let him
destroy rabbits T.A.S.: Richardson’s best work
brings high prices; but prints, such as yours appears
to be, have no market value ... .J.McC.: Motor
mechanics are not required by law to register in
Australia. The N.R.M.A., however, conducts exami-
nations and issues certificates of proficiency
0.N.W.: The last Australian performance of “The
Merry Widow” was at Melbourne Theatre Royal,
where a six nights’ run as a farewell to Gladys
Moncrieff was commenced on January 2, 1926
July Handicap: On your statement of the facts the
commission, 10 per cent., was- excessive; 24 per
cent, is the usual rate. If you can prove payment,
see a solicitor about it. As to the deposit, you
could recover that in the Small Debts Court....
H.E.8.; The only sure way of keeping weevils out
of maize is to ktore it in air-tight containers. After
infestation fumigation with carbon bisulphate is
recommended, but if the grain is bagged it will be
difficult to effect complete penetration... .P.0.C.:
The last of the ex-German' plantations controlled by
the Custodian of Expropriated Property were sold
during the early part of July G.S.: Assisted
passages are granted only to persons who are in
sound physical health, and the decision in such
cases rests with the Chief Medical Officer at Aus-
tralia House, London. Should your brother be able
to pay full fare, apply to the Home and Territories
Department for a permit for him to land. The
Department will require a guarantee that your brother
vvill not become a charge on the State. .. .S.R.: A
George 11. guinea in good condition is valued at £2.
H.C.: You can’t get anything worth having
for the money. .. .C.J.McL.: Better cover yourself.
Suppose the boy is insured and you die in two or
three years, what then ? Government office is quite
good A.V.8.: (1) The State. (2) Yes. (3)
The Savings Bank subscribes for loans just the same
as other investors and gets the same rates of interest.
Bumpkin: Write C. 11. Rolleston, Adyar House,
Bligh-street, Sydney E.G.R.: (1) You would be
taxable for both Federal and State purposes. (2)
A deduction is not allowable in respect of the amount
paid off principal M.L.11.: Write to C. M. Slagg,
Director of Tobacco Investigations, Kurrajong House,
175 Collins-street, Melbourne. .. .Rayson : (1) Regis-
tration is compulsory. (2) Would be liable. (3)
No. (4) The school must be registered. .. .M.C.:
Make application to the Copyright Office, Common-
wealth Bank Buildings, Martin-place, Sydney, with
whom a copy of the work must be lodged. The cost
is os J.M.: Australian Glass Manufacturing Co.,
Ltd., Dowling-street, Waterloo; and Crown Crystal
Glass Co., Ltd., Dowling-street, Waterloo—both of
Sydney. Dott and Co. Pty., Ltd., Langford-street,
North Melbourne; and McNeilage Glass and Machinery
Pty., Ltd., Bakers-road, Coburg, Vic J.A.F.:
Straits Times, Singapore, Straits Settlements....
C.C.A.: “Poultry Farming in N.S.W.” (4s. 3d.
posted), obtainable from Government Printer, Phillip-
street, Sydney H.A.L.: It is a Dutch East Indies
coin called a doit worth about Id., and of no curio
value. .. .D.S.: They are a gamble, with chances of
a big win. But the race is long and many things
may get in the way. If you want safety, n 0....
H.T.E.: No chance at all F.0.C.5.: Write to
Home Recreations, Ltd., 388 George-street, Sydney,
for booklet on home carpentry. (2) Apply to Chief
Librarian, Country Reference Department, Public
Library, Sydney, for lists of carpentry books and
forms of application Cotton: Pedestrians in
Sydney must keep to the left-hand side of the pave-
ment... .A.E.K.: See Mungo MacCallum’s “Shak-
speare’s Roman Plays and Their Background”
Wager: N0....A.A.: Wouldn’t advise you to go to
the Islands or F.M.S. without a job. Inquire in
Sydney from the various island trading companies
as to your prospects C.M.A.: Write to Swain
and Co., Ltd., 123 Pitt-street, Sydney.... A.N.:
Probably the dye comes off because the skin was
not thoroughly cleaned after dyeing. Send it to a
reputable furrier R.W.: Assuming A is qualifying
in law at the University and B is articled as a
solicitor they could both practise, having passed
the necessary examinations, the one as a barrister
and the other as a solicitor on attaining the age
of 21. Success would depend on personal capacity
to a large extent. Both could obtain the same
degrees in the law school (Many others mailed.)


*
Atwater
radio
' t
/
j
j*
4
Sr
u-ji^ggTSi—
[paton]
t I iiipias
t-rn
t
rv •**
3
Vi
ssdl
«
«
ss
»W
uS
Si-
WiL
&
•imm
odel 33 Receiver, Model H Speaker =
ft*.
□
J
m>
m
to ntie dial receivers
Y JMT.
Y
ML
, <s>
1.
□
i**
f^2
Model 35 Receiver, Model E Speaker Mg:-
©IQ
6^v.
ffl '|| W !!llHHllf' imv " , - l " il,fil liil l lHli. 1in,1,, " lll,ll “ 1
-*- Model 32 Receiver, Model E Speaker
:*=•- 6
r SHflEfiesS
.'ft
t. rOE*?-
fnu 1
sun
COUPON.
Messrs. A. Q. Healing Ltd., 167*173
St., Melbourne. 27 Hyde St. Adelaide.
Castlereagh St. Sydney.
Please post me latest Free Literature on
Kent Radio.
Franklin
208-10
Altvater
Name,,,,,,,.
Address.
MODEL 33. One Dial Six Valve model
of great range, power, beautiful Tone
Quality, and unusual selectivity. Non-rad-
iating, non-squealing. (Model H Speaker.)
MODEL 32 One Dial Seven Valve Re-
ceiver...“ Aristocrat of the Atwater Kents.”
Exceptional range and power, with
Atwater Kent purity of tone and ease of
operation. N on-radiating, non-squealing.
(Model E Speaker.)
MODEL 35. Six Valve One Dial Receiver.
Richly finished in brown crystalline, with
touches of gold, and beautiful gold-plated
Spanish Galleon nameplate. Non-radiat-
ing, non-squealing. (Model E Speaker.)
PICTURE to yourself a radio
factory so huge that it covers
15| acres and is capable of a
capacity output of 8000 sets a
day. Such a factory is Atwater Kent’s
...a factory that has founded its
prosperity on the successful develop-
ment of One Dial Radio Receivers.
The One Dial of an Atwater Kent Set
sweeps the air as a searchlight sweeps
the sky. A turn of the wrist and station
after station comes in quickly, yet with
perfect clarity. There are no secondary
devices to manipulate. One simple
dial does the whole job !
These Atwater Kent Receivers are
amazingly compact. Placed anywhere,
on table, window sill or mantelpiece...
they take up less room than a dozen
books. Excelling in tone, they repro-
duce voices and music with perfect
fidelity. And they’re reliable! Every
Atwater Kent set is tested 159 times
before it leaves the factory.
These are the sets that are winning the
whole world to One Dial Reception.
If your home is not already Atwater
Kent equipped, call at the nearest
authorised dealer’s. He’ll be proud to
demonstrate Atwater Kent superiority.
ATWATER KENT PRICES
Six and Seven Valve ONE Dial Atwater
Kent Receivers, €25:10:0 to €37:10:0,
without valves or equipment. Radio
Speakers, €3:15:0, €4:10:0 and €8:15:0
(New Model E.) Complete outfits from
€43:10:0, also console and Writing Desk
models.
Inserted by the A tivater Kent Manufacturing Co., Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A. Australian Wholesale
Distributors: A. C. Healing Ltd. Dealers Everywhere
ASK YOUR NEAREST DEALER TO SHOW YOU
NEW MODELS BY ATWATER KENT


Woolgrowers!
Get full value
for your star lots of wool.
Have them classed and inter-
lotted with similar small lots.
Big Even Lines
Get the Buyer’s
Attention.
For Particulars and Waybills write
The Graziers’ Co-operative
Shearing Company, Ltd.,
23-25 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
PRIMARY PRODUCERS WOOL
AND PRODUCE SELLING CO. LTD.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £200,000.
The Hon. FRANK CHAFFEY, M.L.A.,Grazier,
Tamw'orth.
E. E. COLLINS, Esq., Grazier, Wagga.
W. GORDON McKINNON, Esq., Grazier, Junee.
A. A. MACKENZIE, Esq., Grazier, Guyra.
C. W. L. MURCHISON, Esq., Grazier, Gunnedah.
LESLIE P. DUTTON, Esq., Grazier, Guyra
HARROLD COWLISHAW, Esq., ‘Merchant,
Sydney.
G. H. HARDING, Esq., Company Director, Sydney.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The object of the Company is to offer at auction, within 21 days after arrival in store all
wools consigned to it for sale, whether they be large or small clips, late or early shorn ’free
or faulty, in order of arrival.
Don’t run the risk of having to wait longer for your wool to be catalogued, but have it
offered promptly by the PRIMARY PRODUCERS WOOL AND PRODUCE SELLING CO., LTD.
Consignment notes will be forwarded on application.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES ARE INVITED.
r r v<!
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
HAY RESERVES AND ROTATION.
“Glenfield”: The experience of the drought
of last year, and the addition to the bank
overdraft for the purchase of fodder for
the team to work the ground this year,
should be a warning to the Mallee man,
particularly the new settler, to get that
spare stack of hay on the farm as soon as
possible. To make farming pay in the
Mallee fodder conservation is essential. To
that end the cocky must get into a regular
rotation system, including the sowing of the
previous year’s wheat stubble to oats. The
640-acre man will then have 200 acres of
oats each year, half to cut for hay and half
to feed off to sheep, thus increasing the
stock-carrying' capacity of his farm, and
also giving him ample hay for present re-
quirements and a stack for the future. Should
these spare stacks increase abnormally, as
they may tend to if we get the three or
four good years that are due, the farmer,
while keeping his eye on the requirements
for future dry years, can put some on the
local market as chaff with profit to himself;
for the price of chaff in the North Mallee
has seldom been less than £6 per ton. But
it is useless to grow surplus hay if proper
means are not taken to preserve it; there-
fore thatching and mouse-proofing cannot be
too strongly stressed.
The practice of sowing a paddock to oats
after a wheat crop is being generally recog-
nised throughout the North Mallee as a big
factor in successful wheat growing. It has
been discovered that the residues of crops
show a toxic effect towards roots of the
same variety, and a beneficial effect on roots
of another species ; hqpce the alternation of
wheat and oats. The Vic. Agricultural De-
partment has been experimenting with
various varieties to find the oat most suit-
able to our climate. Asa good all-round
oat for grazing and hay purposes' I think
a more suitable variety than the Algerian
has yet to be found. While not such a fast
grower in the early stages as Lachlan, Sun-
rise, Burt’s Early or Palestine, the Algerian
stools far better, and chokes out the rub-
bish, and it comes away better after a spell
of feeding-off with the sheep. The Lachlan
oat, besides not being such a good stooler, is
inclined to grow fluffy in the head. The
Sunrise is weak in the straw and apt to go
down. The Palestine is an early oat, but
short in the straw for hay purposes in the
Mallee.
There is only one safe way to harvest
the oat crop in the Mallee, and that is to
cut it for hay when the purple color is in
the straw; to leave a crop for stripping is
too risky with the prevalence of our strong
winds at harvest time.
BETTER FARMING.
“X.P.T.”: “R.X.8.,” writing on the things
needed for better farming (B. 27/6/’2B), left
out about the most important—capital. Like
“R.X.8.,” I started with a course at an agri-
cultural college. Seven years ago I came to
the Mallee, and after a year of it selected a
green block, imbued with the idea of getting
rich quick. So far the riches have failed to
materialise. As I started with practically
no money I had to struggle on, for the most
part, with antiquated methods, not having the
cash to purchase the requisite implements.
There are many in a similar plight to myself,
knowing quite well what they ought to do,
but not in a position to do it. The last six
years in the Mallee have been pretty lean
ones generally, except in the case of good
fallow, and therein lies the object-lesson.
Those settlers in my position must continue
to struggle on with any old method until we
get the bumper year which will put us on our
feet. If that is too long delayed we can only
leave the blocks and make room for men with
more capital.
WHEN TO CUT ENSILAGE CROPS.
“Paul C.”: Beginners are afraid to cut
crops too green lest they “fire”; but there
is no danger of this. If they are cut when
too young and full of sap, however, they
produce a squashy, evil-smelling product.
Although when exposed to the air for awhile
this will be eaten by stock, it should never
be given to dairy cows, as the odor is im-
parted to the milk. Asa general rule lucerne
should not be allowed to stand after about
a third of the field is in flower. Maize is at
its best for silage when the cobs are well
formed. Sorghum is best when the head is
showing well. Wheat, oats and barley should
be cut when just out in ear. These remarks
do not mean that you should wait till all
the cobs of maize are well formed or all the
heads of sorghum showing or all the ears
of reed crops out; it is better to cut a little
too soon than too late.
CONTROLLING A WINDMILL.
“A.E.H.”: Here is a handy method of
controlling the water supply of a windmill.
To the end of the wire leading down from
the windmill arm is suspended an oil-drum,
in the bottom of which is inserted a drip
valve. The tank overflow is directed into
the oil-drum, which when full will, by its
weight, draw down the arm of the mill, thus
shutting off the water supply. The water
in tlip course of a few hours drips back into
the well (or bore), and as the oil-drum is
lightened the arm is gradually released. By
this method the windmill needs no attention
save oiling.
VALUE OF COW MANURE.
There is an impression that cow manure
is of little value (writes the soil expert
of the N.S.W. Agricultural Department).
Certainly it is not so rich in the elements
of fertility as the manure of other stock,
but its value is nevertheless appreciable. One
ton of such manure contains about 81b. nitro-
gen, 41b. phosphoric acid and 61b. potash, and
to supply equivalent amounts of these plant
foods in the form of artificial fertilisers
would involve the expenditure of over 10s.
The annual production per cow may be
reckoned at 9 tons, giving an annual value,
at a conservative estimate, of something
approaching £5. This value leaves quite out
of consideration the organic matter of which
the manure so largely consists. This added
value is of considerable significance—not less,
indeed, than that of the material on the
basis of plant-food content. The texture and
mechanical condition of the soil are both
dependent upon the organic matter content,
as is its moisture-holding capacity, and plants
are just as dependent upon these qualities
in a soil as upon its plant-food content.
Indeed, the beneficial effects of any artificial
fertiliser are largely lost in the absence of
soil texture and moisture, and are proportion-
ally increased as its character in these re-
spects is improved.
In the growing of all vegetable crops farm-
yard manure must be considered of all fer-
tiliser materials the most valuable, and the
use of artificial fertilisers as merely supple-
mentary. For coastal soils used for such
crops, therefore, a generous application of
farmyard manure (say 20 tons per acre)
incorporated with the soil during the early
preparation of the land is recommended. The
only artificial fertiliser that should then be
required is superphosphate—for the supply
of phosphoric acid, the plant food in which
our soils are most generally deficient—at the
rate of about 3cwt. per acre, or a mixture
of superphosphate and bonedust at the same
rate.
Whether little or much farmyard manure
is available, if cultivation of any sort is
practised, lie is a shortsighted farmer who
lets this valuable manurial material go to
waste. Every ton which is not returned to
the soil means a loss of at least 10s. to the
farm.
BROKEN LEGS.
“E.W.”: Some years ago a chestnut
mare that belonged to Mr. Weber, of Walgett
(N.5.W..), had her leg broken below the
knee. Mr. Weber put the usual splints and
bandages on the break, but after a week or
so the mare managed to get them off. The
break was then just as apparent as it ever
had been. Mr. Weber next made a mould by
binding a piece of tin around her leg and
poured plaster of Paris into the space be-
tween the leg and the mould. This was taken
off after a month or six weeks, by which
time the bone had mended very satisfactorily.
The mare was used as a pack-horse for
many years afterwards. I fee] sure that
many valuable animals are destroyed when
a little care and patience would save them.
TO DRENCH A COW.
“Blowfly”: When drenching a cow the
head should not be held high, and there
should be no pressure on the throat. The
medicine should be poured into the mouth
slowly. Cows are usually easy to drench,
but occasionally one will resist; care must
be taken then, or the medicine will be poured
into the lungs, which usually results in
death. The thumb and middle finger in the
nostril will act as a bull ring and help the
animal to take the dose.
TEMPERING STEEL TOOLS.
“Bert the Carpenter”: Buy tool steel in-
stead of using up old files and rasps, and
avoid over-heating. When ordering steel,
always state the purpose for which it is to
be used, so as to get the right grade. Have
a clean fire free of clinkers, with a tub of
tepid water alongside, a piece of a broken
emery wheel and a tin with holes in the top
(like a salt shaker) containing powdered
borax. Heat the steel up slowly. When
it reaches red heat dust on some borax
and heat to a clear yellow. Then remove
from the fire and forge to shape. Don’t
work below a red heat —it sets up flaws —
but heat up again until the forging and
shaping are finished.
To temper, heat to clear, bright red; then
lower about one inch of the point squarely
into the tepid water. Leave for between 3
and 8 seconds —the time is governed by. size
of the tool —then remove from the water,
rub the point clear of scale with the piece
of emery stone, and watch for the right
color. As soon as this color reaches the tip,
place the point in water and very slowly
lower the rest of the tool until it is quenched
out. The colors for the different purposes
are: Metal drills, brown; centre punches,
wood chislels, axes, rock drills, crowbars
and picks, brownish-purple; percussion tools
(cold-chisels and punches), a deep Prussian
blue; screwdrivers, a light slaty-blue.
If you can't succeed with these instruc-
tions, try another plan. After cooling off
the tip in water, don’t watch for ccdor, but
place the point on a piece of soft pine, and,
as soon as the wood smokes, dab the tip of
the tool back into the water and slowly
lower in the rest.
A STOCK MEDICINE-CHEST.
“Silky” : My chest is as follows: —
Collar-gall lotion. —Sugar of lead, 1 part:
zinc sulphate, 1 part; water, 40 parts.
lodine ointment. —lodine, 1 part; potas-
sium iodide, 1 part; glycerine* 3 parts ; un-
salted lard, 20 parts.
Antiseptic oil. —lodoform, 1 part; euca-
lyptus oil, 14 parts ; olive oil, 20 parts.
Zinc ointment.—Zinc oxide, 1 part; un-
salted lard, 6 parts.
Soap liniment. —Soft soap, 2 parts; water,
4 parts ; camphor, 1 part; methylated spirits,
16 parts.
Wound oil.—Creosote, 1 part; turpentine,
16 parts; raw linseed oil, 48 parts.
Lead ointment. —Sodium salicylate, 1
part; lard or vaseline, 50 parts.
Red blister. —Red mercury, 1 part; lard,
5 to 10 parts.
WHY WOOL IS SOLD LOCALLY.
“Bosso” : Dad’s principal—often only—-
reason for selling his little clip to dealers
is that he can’t do otherwise. He wants
the cash, and wants it quickly. The
agent from whom he bought the sheep on
terms (8 per cent, interest) is reminding
Dad that he will not renew his bill. The
storekeeper is not exhibiting the same enthu-
siasm over his orders as he was at the begin-
ning of the year. The banker, if Dad has one,
is hinting that he would like to see the little
overdraft wdped off, and the time-payment
implement firm is also on his track. Dad
knows all about the wool sales, and he knows
that the dealer is going to make a bit out
of him; but, then, everyone does that. The
only thing he gets without paying for it
through the nose is advice.
HANDLING THE COLT.
“Aneb”: Why break in first to winkers
and afterwards to an open bridle (B.
13/6/’2B) ? I break in first to an open
bridle, and then colts need no breaking into
winkers; but an animal broken into winkers
is a ticklish subject in an open bridle for
many a day.
Every colt should go through the regular
routine, and put in full time in each class
like a kid, however brainy, does till he gets
into the upper grades. Some are apt, others
slow.
In travelling every State in our Com-
monwealth in search of horses, I find, with-
out a shadow of doubt, the best handlers
and breakers are in the cities; and there
are really lots of establishments that break
in properly on the tram tracks. It’s the
blokes out back that want a little education ;
not in riding, but in handling and, chiefly,
mouthing.
PRUNING PRINCIPLES.
“Doodles” : I agree with the most of “Hop
Scrub’s” interesting article on “Pruning
Principles” (P». 11/7/’2B). He quotes the
Woburn experiments to prove that unpruned
trees are more vigorous than -’pruned trees :
yet he advises cutting hard when the
tree begins to bear and the growth dimin-
ishes. There I disagree. When the growth
diminishes the fruit-bearing capacity of the
tree should not be diminished to encourage
the necessary leaf growth. The most logical
ad\pce is to prune as lightly as possible and
use more manure to increase the fruiting
wood.
The most profitable manures for an
orchard are green manure for humus, and
blood and bone for nitrogen. I was using
sulphate of potash at a cost of £2O per
ton, as I believed that it increased the color
of the fruit, when a Californian college
issued a bulletin which disclosed the fact
that s. of p. only strengthened the texture
of the vegetable tissue in the fruit and in
the tree.
The most successful fruitgrowers in this
State (Vic.) are the ones who use most
manure, and I have yet to meet the grower
who uses too much manure on a commercial
orchard.
ALTERATION OF BALE BRANDS.
“Blowfly”: Many people think that once
a brand is on a wool-pack it is there per-
manently. This, however, is not so. If it is
found that a brand has to be altered the
following method will be found to prove
effective and simple. Thoroughly saturate a
wad of clean wool with water and rub briskly
over the brand. Repeat this two or three
times, each time using a fresh wad of wool.
It will be found that the brand will gradually
dissolve. When it is considered that the
brand is sufficiently indiscernible rub over
with a dry wad of wool. The new brand may
bo put on in the old one’s place without
any apparent trace of the previous brand.
GUARD FOR TROUGHING.
“Blowfly”: After trying most kinds of
troughing guards for watering stock, this one
has proved the most effective and least dan-
gerous. Put in a row of hardwood posts (if
split, trim off the splinters) 2ft. in the
ground and 10ft. apart, as close as possible
to the side of the troughing, with a strainer
3ft. in the ground at each end. Have the
posts high enough to allow No. 6 galvanised
wire to be run through so that the wire will
be 16in. above the top of the troughing.
Place a good stay at each end, and mortise
into the strainer and strain tightly. The
wire so placed will allow the sheep to drink
under the rail and the big stock over it.
TO LOOSEN PIPE JOINTS.
“C.M.”: “Dai R.’s” advice (B. 11/7/’2B)
to loosen pipe joints, bolts, nuts, etc., would
prove disastrous in many cases; for attempt-
ing to turn any nut or joint while heated
will result in the thread seizing and being
torn off or damaged. But he is right to a
point; one should make red hot, but should
then Cool as quickly as with cold
water. A slight amount of tapping, when
cold, will result in the nut turning easily,
still leaving both threads in good condition.
POISONING CROWS.
“8.L.D.” : In my opinion strychnine is a
poor crow poison ; only about one in every
10 that take the bait dies. A crow can
disgorge his food, and this is where strych-
nine fails. The crow-trap recently described
in The Bulletin is one of the best methods
of protecting your ewes over lambing. But
if “Blowfly” (B. 27/6/’2B) wants to poison
crows, let him proceed as follows: Having
found a ewe not long dead, skin her and take
out the caul-fat. Then spread the skin out,
and pour on to it a little pool of S.A.P. or
similar rabbit poison. Now take the fat
and cut it into small pieces, dip the pieces
in the poison and throw them about the car-
case and the skin. The crow may vomit
when he feels the pain, but it is too late, as
the poison will stick to the lining of the
stomach. It is a cruel death, but is the
only practical way.
EARLY TOMATOES.
“XSA” : Growers who wish to collect some
of the good money which is always available
for choice early tomatoes should lose no time.
I find the following method most suitable,
and although the labor involved may appear
on the heavy side, absolute satisfaction can
be guaranteed.
The seed beds in which I raise up to
10,000 plants are prepared and planted in
a few hours. I mattock up a plot of new
ground, cover this with a layer of rotted
manure about four inches deep, and then add
a top-dressing of loamy soil to a similar
depth. This gives me ample drainage. Plots
3ft. wide and 12ft. in length are then
boarded in. Three will suffice for the quan-
tity I require and will provide an ample
reserve for anticipated replantings. After
broadcasting half an ounce of seed to each plot
as evenly as possible, covering it in by a
light sprinkling of dry mulch, I give the
beds a thorough soaking. I prefer to do
this during the heat of the winter day, be-
cause I then spread cornsacks flat on the
ground to force germination. For several
consecutive days it will be necessary to re-
move the bags, and then water, but it now
(Continued on page 31.)


This notice 1, not to be corded ,n invitation to .übscribe Shoos, end .btiictiont .HI only bo received » the looting ol the lull
This Company is issuing a prospectus dated the 31st day ot July ‘^ lc J f^l b^“ ed " lth the Reglbt ' dl °
* iKr, nnn q r»pr ppnt Cumulative Preference Shares of eacn, an- ,i* «
’ The following Statements, amongst others, are contained in t e rospec us. lunnN ON FRIDAY THE 31st AUGUST, 1928.
THE SUBSCRIPTION LIST WILL BE CLOSED AT NOON ON FRIDAY, THE 31st auuusi,
GOLIATH PORTLAND'CEMENT COMPANY
W taXimcminTiifn ttotwr THE COMPANIES ACT 1920 (TASMANIA).
forms issued therewith.
, notifying subscriptions at pai
LIMITED
Directors.
L. ENNIS, 0.8. E., for Dorman, Long and Co., Ltd Director of Construction, Sydney Harbor Bridge.
T S. NETTLEFOLD, General Manager, Hume Pipe Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Melbourne,
HAROLD .). BROCK, Pastoralist, Hobart, Tasmania.
LIEUT.-COL. CHARLES MILLS, V.D., Grazier, Longfoid, Tasmania.
DR. J. RAMSAY, C.8.E., M.S., Launceston, Tasmania.
Bankers for the Company.
' THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN BANK, LIMITED.
Bankers for the Underwriters.
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED.
Solicitors.
ALLEN ALLEN, and lIEMSLE i, Oastlereagh-street, Sydney. „
GATENBY, JOHNSON, and WALKER, Commercial Bank of Australia Chambers, I obart, gj —: —__
Auditors.
TT B ALLARD WAY, and HARDIE, O’Connell-street, Sydney.
WISE?’LORD, and FERGUSON, A.M.P. Chambers, Hobart, Tasmania.
Brokers.
F 0 FURNER and CO., 115 Pitt-street, Sydney,
j' GOODALL and CO., Queen-street, Melbourne.
H. W. BAYLEY and CO., Elizabeth-street, Hobart.
General Managers.
DORMAN, LONG, and COMPANY,' LIMITED, 6 George-street North, Sydney.
Secretary and Registered Office.
WALTER J. SMYTH, A.C.P.A., Railton, Tasmania.
n a dit a i f fiOO 000 Divided into 600,000 shares of £1 each, of which
NOMINAL CAPITAL ■ ■ ■ ■ " XbUU,UU . lative preference dividends at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum on the
PREFERENCE SHARES are now offered for subscription di “ids in priority to the Ordinary Shares, with a right on a j winding up to be
capital for the time being paid up thereon and ranking * s reg , , , not down to the commencement of the winding-up, and also to be repaid
paid all arrears of preferential dividend, whether earned or decla ag paid up Qn the Pre f er ence Shares, but not conferring the right to
in priority to the Ordinary Shares the amount of capital paid P ~ at t h e rate of 2/6 per share on application, 2/6 per share on allotment,
any further participation in profits or assets. Subscriptions are payable hs •• • •
and the balance in calls not exceeding 2/6 per share at mterjals of not h the cap ; tal for the time being paid up
PREFERENCE SHARES carrying cumulative preferencediv.dendsat th a P right on a winding up to be paid all arrears of preferential
thereon and ranking as regards dividends m priority i to the °* ** t of the winding up, and also to be repaid in priority to the Ordinary
dividend, whether earned or declared or not, down to the commencement n< * c J nferring the right to any further participation in profits
Shares the amount of capital paid up or oredited as pai p Proprietary, Limited, in terms of the agreement for sale hereinafter mentioned. . .
or assets. These shares are being purchased by Tasmanian Cement p application, 2/6 per share on allotment, and the balance in
ORDINARY SHARES are now offered for subscription, payable 2/6 per share on application, z/o p
calls not exceeding 2/6 per share at intervals P^rietarv.'Limited.'in terms of the agreement for sale hereinafter mentioned
ORDINARY SHARES are being purchased by Tasmanian Cement Proprietary, Limited, in
SHARES are to be held in reserve
155,000
25,000
229,155
140,845
50,000
600,000
£155,000
£25,000
£229,155
£140,845
£50,000
£600,000
Shares for Public Subscription. , ~.
155,000 Preference Shares and 229 155 Ordinary Shares> are goffered for Stick
k, Limited, or the National Bank ot Australasia, oi '-u', pted f of exc hange in any
Application and allotment money and any subsequent call will be accepted
capital city of Australia. nvanHenhlp after the closing of the subscription lists.
Allotment notices will be issued as soon as for the excess of the application
In case a lesser number of shares is allotted than is PI “ b ’° a n o tment and the balance (if
money will be applied in or towards payment of the amount payaDie
any) will be returned to the applicant m full. refunded in full
If no allotment is made the application “oney wil e Hobart, Launceston, Sydney,
Application will be made in due course to have the shares listed on uoua ,
Melbourne and Adelaide Stock Exchanges. shares applied for and allotted on
Brokerage at the rate of sixpence per share will be P aK^ X^" ap[ U
applications identified as coming from any member of the Stock Exchange.
Underwriting. „ r a; n arv
Of the above shares now offered for subscription 117,500 balance of the
shares have been underwritten. The underwriters also have an option to subscribe
shares offered to and not taken up by the public.
Goliath Portland tenant Company,'Limited, Summit, *. P>J»
ass aid w, «»*»*«.
ern Tasmania. . ~ , .. n f the Cement Works at Railton by
s- - » -«*•
Unlt 'ln the event of a satisfactory completion of investigations 1 with
leases referred to below will be developed, under the terms of an existing ag ee
Extraction, Ltd., London. U A * d
The Company i. punch,„in, (L* ®
vendor company), the existing cement works at Hail ton, Northern iasmama, as a go a
assets being acquired include : machinery stores office furniture, and fittings, patents,
(a) The existing cement works, with all plant, macmnery, sun es, omcc
<b) SSteTwith th. limestone depo.it. thereon.
(c) Considerable areas of leasehold land at Latrobe, near and”’ ulf benefit of' all pending
(d) All book and other debts due to the vendor cqmparavand the full o th / vendov
contracts and all cash in hand, and generally all property and rights to wmcn
company is entitled. P ' e
valuation, madef* 6 vvas agreed Weep? SSSfS
follows:
(a) £165,845 in cash. . ~ limited to nav the liabilities of the
(b) The undertaking by Goliath Portland Cement C,ompai liabilities not to'exceed £104,155.
vendor company as at 30th September mi, s'uch consideration, £165,845, in
The vendor company has agreed to invest the . Who ® . h^ ith this amo unt as shown previously
Goliath Portland Cement Company, Limited, and is purchasing wmi
25,000 Preference Shares and 140,845 Ordinary Shares.
. „ . „ of Property. Proprietaiy , Limi ted, Civil
The services of Mr. S. Haunstrup, of S. Haun^t mp. n v. an i ndepe ndent valuation of
Engineers and Contractors, Melbourne Sydney, pORTIAND CEME nT COMPANY, LIMITED,
the property now being taken over by GOLIATH 1 . P rietarv j jtd including the Freehold,
“»■»« tmmuso
I*—* ». wn *»»» ■» ** •«—*>
Quality of Limestone, etc. .
All the necessary raw materials to make first-class Tasmania at be-
works. The limestone deposits have been estimated by t arry as the overburden is not
tween eight and ten million tons. The deposits are y < b - the vendor company. The
troublesome, and has to a considerable a b ?L y manufacturing and y selling between 450 and 500
vendor company has for some considerable time b n ntact g received from contractors,
tons of cement per week. Numerous .letters i and™*nave ,“ {ormation investorB( however,
engineers, etc., as to the excellent quality of this c 1 ■ . nhorntorv of Messrs. F. L. Smidth and
the Directors decided to obtain a report from the Cope g ma tters concerned with cement and
Company, Engineers, who have a world-wide reputation n fortunate in securing cement-
concrete constructions. This report indicates fRy te* nullity,
making materials capable of economically turning report are submitted herewith:—
The following extracts from Messrs. F. L. Smidthand w s " part of this
“We duly received samples of the raw materials sent tc. our laboratory . „ P
cement with three s^R ® r^ H Standard Sand gaVe COMPREsIION STRENGTH.
After 2 days 22961b./sq. in.
After 7 days- 47441b./sq. in.
A^ter 28 days 85021b./sq. in.
“A test with neat cement gave after seven . da y s jH an t d nsd e m|nts. ngtl Furthermore, it may
“These figures compare favorably with the best Engl sh commercial scale will show still
be expected that cement produced from these raw matenals o mate rials are highly suitable for
better figures, and it can, therefore, safely be said that these raw materials are mg y
producing a Portland cement of the best quality.
(Further extracts from the report appear in the Prospectus.)
Dorman, Lon, and Company, “capSy"”
GmfW'roETiira Thf value .. man„emen. by thin Company
Will be apparent. S eV en-year Agreement for Disposal of Output. .
This most essential point has been dealt with J****™*££££ CmenT Limited
satisfactory. For some time past the whole of the P imited of Melbourne who accept full
has been disposed of that it commands a ready sale,
ffi H o^o org ” i “ lion
whole ol the Cement Company’, output ttiou,h Cmert Di.tnbuton
au pa =? a «2sa,izas“ .-sssn
in connection with the collection of payments. i
Transport and Power.
Two very important considerations to a cement company are the cost of transport of the manu-
faCtU lfrSrd?
duotion.
2561b./sq. in.
4431b./sq. in.
6181b./sq. in.
En | la^ e M r e "ron?i^ X of t &r 1 F n L. Smidth and Company, of Copen-
Recently arrangements were made for r -^"? e Xnts in toe world to proceed to the works in Tas-
SS, » »tai. T/f‘t,Z, n "‘^ Ur Cout .or,,
£i“' V’At? ton, opacity .0, t„o
sum of £161,162, and for enlarging and present^un^‘M™ thejum :^ 7 ’ pre ; ent with an
annull h^d t u h^r':f U rer 1 20,00 f the second unit c, 65 000 ton.output is ? in workmg or**.
sss stK.ttsssf j? oS.iy"«^ b s Ar,ua tel; »
for the whole work to be completed. _ , .
Estimated Cost of Production.
Mr. Tonneson made calculations of the cost of manufacturing re^d XV.
and also of the cost with the new plant operating lr > l { pro( j ue tion with the new 65,000-
ir-swfc a. wa -
as remodelled (when the output will 110,000 tons per —) at £2 ton.
per 5 out return has been taken at the conse,
vative figure of £3 10s. per ton.
Capital Expenditure. ......
. *srsa srsi wr, ®
•ar-ra, -
being cash .. . 104,155
Liabilities taken over, including bank overdraft £270,000
New cement unit, 65,000 tons of cement per annum capacity (as per estimate) ..
Enlarging and altering existing unit to increase total capacity to 110,000 tons pel annum
(as per estimate) .. .. •;
Underwriting, brokerage, legal and preliminary expenses . . • • • • • • • •
Working capital
This the Directors propose to finance as under:
Tas. Cement Pty.
Preference .. .. •• •• ,j5>2?9 ’
Ordinary .. .. • ■ • • 140,845 .
Ltd.
Offered to Public.
. . 155,000 .
. . 229,155 .
161,102
67,488
40,000
11,350
£550,000
Total.
. . 180,000
. . 370,000
550,000
These estimates allow a working capital of £11,350, and this, with banking accommodation, should
be ample for the company’s requirements. . _ p
Estimate of Profits.
The following is the estimated position when total .production is reached
TO WORKING EXPENSES (includ
ing depreciation) 110,000 tons
at £2 7s. 104 d. per ton ..£263,312 10
„ OTHER EXPENSES (Manage-
ment charges, Directors’ Pees,
Legal Costs, Insurance Rates,
Taxes, and contingencies) .. 31,687 10
NET PROFIT carried down .. 90,000 0
tons at £3 10s. per
£385,000 0 0
0 0
0 0
£385 000 0 0 £385,000
£385.000 BY BALA NCE, BEING NET PROFIT
BROUGHT DOWN and AVAIL-
ABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION ..£90,000
Estimated Annual Distribution of Profit. 4Q()
8 per cent, on £lBO,OOO Preference Share capital 7/3’eoo
Balance available for dividend on ordinary shares and reserves • • _
£90,000
The above estimate of profits is based solely on the production of cemenf Any
revenue which may subsequently be derived from the working of the Shale for oH
has n ° t n b ®®" f^ego/ng 0 estimates each £1 Preference Share will be
£2/16/8 tangible assets, whilst the Preference dividend will be c « ™ ore
X times by the annual profit, and the net yield on the ordinary share capital, after
allowing for depreciation, will amount to approximately 20 per cent.
Extraction of Shale Oil at Latirobe. -n *i
«sraA “ - • a
the mine is so situated that working on a. a t ve been published at various times by the
Descriptions of the Tasmanian shale oil deposit , r . r ibrd +be geological features in detail
Tasmanian Department of Mines. These publicatiom ha xtr f ctin | the oil. The possibility
and have emphasised the commercial aspects l of. mining s^ r obe ressed the Directors of the
of extracting oil on a commercial scale from the ep Dorman Long and Company, Limited, on
Vendor Company that, when in London recently • ’ ith Mineral’oils Extraction, Limited, whereby
behalf of the Vendor Company, entered into anPa” ie7 Retort at its own expense on the mine for
the latter company was f JS* r t i?s further agreed that in the event of the test turning out favorably,
a wss r
oS SSSr Sf LSS STS? £
Company’s shale properties and its mine. He has also rcDOrt t o his principals. Recent cable
“tesrja ll s s , aLSi , SJKra?JS2
is :r;s ,, isr£3E»ss <« »< »>■ •»
Cement Company Limited emphasise the oil prospects unduly, intending investors should
s sHrsSSwzr Si” saw
value in the shares. ▼ ,
Points of Particular Interest to Investors. ,
... rnTTATH PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY, LIMITED, by purchasing Tasmanian Cement
Pty., (l Ad., G prJp A oS To enlarge a ‘‘going concern,” producing and disposing of 400 to 500 tons of
SECOND CEMENT UNIT in proximity to Hie existing' unit
enlarging and alteration of the existing unit will increase the output to over 2100 t P
for the disposal of the total output up to 110,000 tons
Per considered to be equal to the best Portland Cement being produced
in * (5) C GOLJATH al pORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY, LIMITED, will have the following advantages:
(a) High-grade limestone and other requisite raw materials.
(b) Coal at a reasonable price.
(c) Ample water supply.
(e) Railway communication from the factory site to a deep-water port.
(f) Shipping facilities to various mainland ports. _
(g) Modern economic plant with latest labor-saving devices. Pomnanv
nf the full Prospectus and Form of Application can be obtained at the office of the Company
or from 1 s Solicitors 8 or Brokers, and at every Branch of the English, Scottish and Austra-
lian Bank and the National Bank of Australasia, Limited, in Australia and Tasmania.
DATED this 31st day of July, 1928.
Railton, Tasmania.


=3
£
eu
&
&
«
MOTOR TO INSPECT
Cars leave our Head
Office every day. An
inspection places you
under no obligation
whatsoever. ’Phone,
write or call, and make
your reservation.
Please post me plans and particulars (free of obligation) of
.Estate.
EAME
ADDRESS
Bulletin, l/8/’2B.
exclusive:
HOME SITES
To live in quiet surroundings, where quality is dominant and exclusive-
ness the keynote—where you are pleased to know your neighbors
whose interests and yours are identical—a place where you need have
no qualms regarding your children’s playmates.
Such is the atmosphere that prevails on the well-situated and exclusive
estates —particulars of which are given below.
STRATHFIELD.
STRATHFIELD, 7 miles from Sydney, on the
Main Suburban Line, is one of the most favored
of Sydney’s residential suburbs, and land so well
situated as this estate, is becoming difficult to
obtain.
SUPERLAND ESTATE occupies a beautiful
position, with splendid views. It is about It
mile from the Station, but there is a ’bus ser-
vice to Strathfield within two minutes’ walk
of the Estate.
The land has been generously subdivided to pro-
vide the roomy allotments necessary for the
class of home for which the district is noted.
Accessibility to the City is so good that it is
possible to travel from Sydney right to the estate
in 30 minutes.
Water, Electric Light and Gas have been brought
up to the estate.
Lots are 66ft. x 241 ft., and prices are from
£6/10/- per foot.
PYMBLE.
PYMBLE, 9 miles from Sydney, on the North
Shore Line, is high and healthy.
KIM HARRA ESTATE occupies a magnifi-
cent position between Pymble and Turramurra
stations, just off the Lane Cove Road.
The lots are mostly elevated —the position is one
of the finest in the district and the land has
great prospective value—ample space being pro-
vided on each block for the erection of a high-
class home. Electric light, water and gas are
available on the Beechworth Road frontages.
The demand for these beautiful home sites is keen
—already a number have been purchased and we
strongly advise personal inspection without delay.
The frontages vary from 50ft. to 75ft. by a
depth of 220 ft., and prices are from £269/10/-
to £616 per block.
TERMS.
Our terms are exceptionally easy:—
Five per cent, deposit and the balance, including interest at
6 per cent, per annum, payable by monthly instalments of
10/- for each £25 of purchase money.
ARTHUR RICKARD & CO. LTD
“The House of Ten Thousand Home Sites,”
RICKARD HOUSE, 84 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’’Phone: 86491.
SOCIAL PROBLEMS
.*,ll
Hill!
liiU
<GI
>'77'
7
fOK
r
■Lj
rj
L
z
A, having at last succeeded in impressing his friends with the quality of his
wireless set by regaling them with a talk from Buenos Aires (and just as
clear as if it came from 2 LO next door) receives the information that
“ that concludes our Spanish lesson for to-day, and the London Station is
now closing down until 6.30.”
What should A do ?
• •
• •
• •
Only one course is possible - - LIGHT ANOTHER ABDULLA.
superb Cigarettes
TURKISH EGYPTIAN VIRGINIA


TT~:
:
Heavily soled
The toughest obtainable
leather, made into soles almost
twice the usual thickness, is
used for these Abbey Shoes.
They’re pliant and easy-fitting.
You have choice of three
widths—narrow, medium and
wide—for each full and half-
size.
ORDER BY POST . State
both width and size, and ask also
for a supply of the correct Abbey
Polish 6d. per tin.
BLACK OR TAN CALF, 35/-
.’iO-Page Colored Catalogue post free
on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St. Sydney
GROCERS,
THE “EARL” BACON CUTTERS, “made
in Australia,” are always at your service—made
in five models, prices £8 to £3B, cash or terms.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
HUMPHREY EARL, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
GRIP YOUR HORSE
asdf
THE PRINCE
POLEY
£l4/14/-
Complete.
SIGN HERE and
Name
Address
Post this Ad.
'with Wieneke’s
New Model
1928
PRINCE POLEY
The kneepads are set
higher up, but the
stirrup bars are free
for safety; in case of
an accident the
leathers will pull off.
Forty years’ saddle-
making has made the
Wieneke world-
famous.
I will send you my big book of
saddles and my experiences.
JACK WIENEKE,
c/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 George St., Sydney.
432 Queen St., Brisbane.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
front Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay •
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
Healthy Hair Adds
To Youthful Beauty
Frequent shampoos are necessary
to prevent dandruff and consequent
loss of hair. Before shampooing
anoint with Cuticura Ointment, then
cleanse with a suds of Cuticura Soap
and hot water. Rinse thoroughly.
Nothing better for keeping the scalp
and hair clean and healthy.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co.,Sydney ,N.S. W.
iHT Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY Also at WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales f WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
Throughout the Year 1 HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock, Wool, Gram and, Profu™-
r „ " . cu..., —, JAMES KIDD, General Manager for Australia.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney.
DO YOU WANT TO EARN MORE MONEY?
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life. A profession in
which competition is limited and which offers wonderful opportunities if you have any ability
and are persevering. Our tuition gives opportunities to students not to be found elsewhere.
Write for P our booklet, telling of positions, salaries and fees, to-day. Start your new career NOW.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
ESTABLISHED 181,9.
EVERY MAN SHOULD
Provide for his dependents.
Provide for himself.
A Life Policy with the A.M.P. is the surest, safest
and most economical way of ensuring such results.
Funds over £68,000,000. Annual Income, £10,500,000
All Surplus divided amongst the participating members.
Head Office,
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
H. W. APPERLY,
General Manager.
becomes important to use hot water. The
covering should be replaced in order to
retain the heat.
When germination is apparent, it is neces-
sary to retain a covering in order to guard
against frosts and cold winds. I therefore
construct a simple awning which can be
removed at will. This need not be more than
2ft. high, but must ensure complete protec-
tion at night. I continue watering with
warm water so that beds are always moist,
but avoid actual wetness during a cold spell.
Many growers will perhaps be satisfied to
thin out in the beds and transplant direct.
I find that a 100-p.c. strike in the cultiva-
tion plot is quite worth while, and therefore
go to a little extra trouble to ensure this.
I get as many old fruit half-cases as are
necessary, fill them with light soil, and when
the seedlings show four leaves plant them
out about 50 to the box. These are placed
in a well-sheltered but sunny position and
carefully covered every night.
Given a few warm days, these youngsters
will very quickly race up to fine sturdy
plants, and will be found quite hardy and
entirely different from the pale, spindly ones
seen in so many shops. When finally trans-
planting, boxes should be soaked in water
to give the plants a real good drink. Take
as much earth as possible with each, and give
them plenty of room. The grower must,
however, carefully select a variety which is
not only early but a good cropper in his
type of soil.
HOW TO REAR THOSE DUCKLINGS.
The prescription of “St. Helens” :
Don’t give them slops. Their food should be mixed
dry and crumbly, or it blocks the nostrils.
Don’t stint the green stuff; they need twice as
much as chicks.
Don’t give them milk to drink; it causes sore eyes.
Mix it in the feed.
Don’t let them swim if you want to fatten them.
Don’t fail to see they have dry sleeping quarters.
Don’t neglect to give plenty of clean water; food
without water may choke them. Water tins should
be deep enough for them to wash their eyes out.
Sand in the bottom of them is good.
Finally, gua«d against cats and rats, drowning in
water tins and strangling in wire netting.
THE PREDATORY HOG.
“Bad Australian”: Almost every farmer
knows how to put a stop to the depredations
of the fence-breaking bull or the roguish
poddy, but any attempt to deal with the pre-
datory hog is generally regarded as hopeless.
But it isn’t. Take a convenient piece of hard-
wood as long as the width of the hog’s jowl
and bore a hole about lin. dia. through it at
each end. Then take a couple of tough gum
or wattle suckers about 2ft. Gin. long and
butt one into each hole and wedge up. Now
catch Denis, straddle him and, holding the
contraption by the sticks, push the flat piece
well under his jowl and heave up until he
sags back on to his haunches. Then cross
the “sprits” over his neck just behind the
ears, lash them tightly together and the job
is done. Once put this yoke stays put. Any
hog wearing it is at perfect liberty to go
about his lawful occasions, but the flimsiest
kind of fence or barricade will put a prompt
and effective stop to his peregrinations.
DANGER IN DIRTY EGGS.
“Silentio”: The voluntary pool in N.S.W.
for handling eggs has issued an important
circular to consignors. Every year many
eggs brought out of cold storage are unfit
for consumption, despite the greatest care in
selection and handling. The trade term is
“crusted yolk,” though the average person
calls them rotten eggs. The pool invoked
the aid of the N.S.W. State Committee of
the Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research. AVork in U.S.A. and South
Africa proves that the deterioration is due
to dirt. The foreign matter penetrates the
pores of the shell and- finds its way into
the contents. It has been repeatedly pointed
out that eggs that have to be cleansed, by
washing or otherwise, are quite good for
immediate consumption, but are useless for
preservation or export. The only way to
overcome this drawback lies in the farmer’s
hands —to always have clean nests and
nesting material. If cleaning is absolutely
necessary, it should be done with a dry
cloth. If moisture is needed to remove
the dirt, always finish up with a per-
fectly dry cloth. Then brand the case
that has been cleaned, so as to assist the
selling agent to market the washed product
for immediate use, and so uphold the good
name of the Australian egg. Bacteria can
penetrate damp shells quite easily, though
the shell may not be broken, so care must
be exercised to keep the eggs dry after collec-
tion. Eggs collected in the rain should be
wiped dry.
SETTING VALUABLE EGGS.
“Blue Moon”: The best way to set a hen
on valuable eggs is to make an oblong frame
6 feet long, 2 feet wide and 2 feet high,
boarded on the top 2 feet at one end and
the other end wire-netted. A door is put
at each end in the sides. From the top
(where the boarding ends and the netting
begins) hang a flap on hinges. Behind this
flap the hen is set on the eggs. Attach a
stout cord to the bottom of the flap to raise
or lower it. If possible put this box in the
grass, as it has no floor in it and the hen
enjoys green food. In this four feet wired
run place water, grain, shell grit and a
dust bath. Every morning raise the flap
and put .the hen off, closing the flap behind
her for a few minutes. In a few days she
will come off without being put off.
RABBIT SKINNING.
“Cuchulain” : Most of the badly-stretched
rabbit skins (B. 20/6/’2B) result from the
legs of the rabbit being cut off too short. By
pressing on the flexible thigh as you run the
knife round the skin, the leg is held out
straight and stiff, and it is easy to run the
knife straight down almost to the toes on the
hind legs. Then the bows don’t need bending
at the base to enable the legs to tie across,
though there are still skinners who persist
in bending the bows across the chests and
pressing them in while putting the skins
across. The bows should be opened out to
their widest, and the skins well shaken out
before being put on. Care should be taken
r.ot to drop in dirt or grass, and blood on the
skin detracts from value. Skins should never
be taken in too wet, as weight is knocked off
by the buyers on that account, and if car-
ried in a bag care should be taken not to
turn out a heap of crumpled, damp skins.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“A Steer”: Somebody wants to know
whether hobbling the bull will affect its
service. Certainly: it is the only effective
plan of birth-control. The job can be done
without danger if the animal is put in a
crush or has liis head tied close to a post.
“Blowfly”: Keep your lambs away from
cliickwheat. They can’t digest the seeds;
this causes diarrhoea and inflammation,
which often results in death.
“Ephebus”: “Leurone” is wrong in say-
ing fruit stops fowls laying. Mine are
allowed the run of the orchard, and all
culled fruit is either boiled and mixed with
their bran and pollard or given to them in
its raw state. From 30 white Leghorns I
have had up to 27 eggs a day, although 20
per cent, of them are in their third year.
They are just getting over their moult,
having been off their lay for only a little
over a fortnight. No patent tonic foods are
given them. But what about the effect of
fruit on pigs?
“Hatter” : A better cure for scaly leg than
kerosene is a mixture of sulphur, lard and
castor oil in equal quantities. When applied
to young birds it will act as a preventive,
too.
“B-Gar”: “ J.L.H.” suggests tearing up
odd fleeces and putting them in with the
pieces. Bags are cheap enough, and rams’
fleeces and other reject fleeces sell well in
bags; my experience has been that keen com-
petition exists for well-graded lines of bagged
wool.
“Bon Jour”: When picking up a Cow’s
hind foot approach her from the side opposite
to the foot which has to be treated. If
it’s the right foot, come at her from the
left side, lean over behind her, pick up the
foot quickly and strongly, and hold it fairly
high; treat it without wasting any time and
let it down gently.
“Bon Jour”: With so much wet weather
on the N.S.W. North Coast foot rot is be-
coming prevalent in the dairy herds. If
this is not attended to it will seriously
affect the milk supply. If it is caught early
turpentine is a sure cure; clean the foot
thoroughly, apply turpentine and bandage
the foot with a piece of bag, keeping the cow
out of mud and on dry ground as much as
possible.
“Blowfly”: When the horse gets sore
shoulders put him out of collar work, and
get the collar altered. While the shoulders
are having a rest apply freely and frequently
this lotion: Powdered alum, loz.; sulphuric
acid, 1 drachm; water, 1 pint. This will
dry up any ordinary sore and harden the
skin.
“Jimmy Dux”: To catch a young horse
and lunge him on the bit is inviting* trouble.
Handle him, and teach him to lead with a
halter. Never lead him with the bridle.
Let him mouth himself, and see that his
mouth is never cut. Pad the bit first. Once
the corners of his mouth are cut they go
callous, and can never be got right again.
Don’t ride him till he is ready. Fancy
your reins are made of string and his mouth
of silk, and you will have a horse to be
proud of.
“Claude W.” : If plenty of cracked oyster
shell, etc., is placed in the run, hens will
not eat their own eggs. If, however, they
persist, a blown egg or two filled with mus-
tard, or a few very rotten ones, placed about
the yard will have a marked effect.
“Blowfly”: Never discard old galvanised-
iron tanks and troughs; they will always
do up again at a very small cost. Twitch
small-mesh wire-netting around the walls
and cover with concrete. At first the work
will sweat a good deal, but soon there will
be no signs of moisture. Give a coat of
tar and oil, or tar alone.
“Salambo”: Well-bred Clydesdale horses
are coining into their own again in Maori-
land. At the Rangiora (Canterbury) Horse
Fair one breeder sold six 2 J-year-old fillies
at from 48 guineas to 52—by Malverstone
(imp.) from stud-book mares.
“Boro”: Mr. Tuckett, of Betley (Vic.),
has a Jersey which has been milking for
five years. The owner states: “She was
milking one Sunday morning and calved the
same night. I have her full sister, and it is
impossible to dry her off either. Their
mother, when tested, made 241 b. butter-fat
for the week. I had to milk the mother
three times a day, but lost her through milk
fever. The mother was by Defender, from a
first-class cow of Lord Twylish blood.”
“Boondooma”: A farmer at Crawford,
South Burnett (Q.), has just harvested 365
bags of maize from an 11-acre paddock —
a shade over 33 bags, or 99 bushels to the
acre. Within 20 miles a peanut farmer has
threshed 227 bags from a seven-acre paddock,
averaging over 32 bags, or approximately
256011). of nuts to the acre.
“T.W.” : Those in need of a good swamp
grass cannot go wrong with Poa aqua-tica,
a newcomer, native of Asia. Maorilanders
are finding it a wonderful fodder grass, and
a killer of valueless growths. A salvager of
wasteland, stock relish and do well on it.
dairy cows included; it is rich in protein.
“Old Timer” : Here’s a word in favor of
wire gates. They baulk the bull. He will
lift the iron gate or eventually push it down.
Sliprails he walks through. The barbed-
wire gate sets him back. And if it is pro-
perly made, with slats of timber stapled on
upright, the wires do not tangle, and the
gate is as easy to open as an iron one,
easier set up and very much cheaper.
“Steve H.”: To get rid of rats, use barium
carbonate, w-hich has neither taste nor smell,
and is cheap. It has the advantage of caus-
ing the rats to leave their haunts in search
of water, thus avoiding disagreeable smell.
Spread on bread and butter, or fish, or mix
with oatmeal —one-eighth of the mineral to
the bulk of meal mixed with w r ater to a
stiff dough. Put a teaspoonful in the rat
runs. Keep away from domestic animals,
for, although small doses are not harmful to
them, it is not altogether fool-proof.


Mere words cannot express
their infinite superiority.
Army Club
lO for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
in pure ribbed watermarked paper.
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
((
m
I
ft
m
CORK
TIPPED
or PLAIN.
SMOKE-OH!
“Where,” asks a newspaper, “does one find
mangoes?” Where woman goes, surely !
❖
It is said that there is no rose without
a thorn, but why pick on Rose? What
about Maud?
There’s many a man who may be said to
owe his high financial standing to his low
commercial lying.
A professor announces that he has made
wood into food. That, however, is nothing
to our hoarding-house keeper. She can make
food into wood.
Hi H=
Victoria’s Chief Secretary says that
hawkers should be licensed. On the other
hand, there are housewives who believe they
should be strangled.
The World’s News records the case of a
burglar who sat in Parliament. We are
given to understand that on rare occasions
statesmen also have been known to break in
there.
H= *
I sing not the coughs and colds that winter
brings along.
I heed not the ruddy hearth, the kettle and
its song.
The unpaid hills may mount; the bosses’
wrath may burst —
All that really matters is “What nag will
get home first?”
VICTORIA. W.
THE LAGGARD.
“Father asked whether you’d been trained
for the church.”
“What an idea! I wonder why he wanted
to know that?”
“Oh, I expect he thought you were taking
a long while to come to the point.”
The man who gets himself pickled should
not be surprised if his wife gives him a jar.
There was some compensation for Daniel
when in the lions’ den. He knew, whatever
happened, that he wouldn’t be called on to
make the after-dinner speech.
SOME PROVERBS.
The Business Man’s: “Rook before you
sleep.”
The Undertaker’s: “Two deads are better
than one.”
The Taxi-driver’s: “Where there’s a Jill
there’s a jay.”
* *
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
I have had no experience, but wish to
make money in daily journalism. What
would you advise? —2901.
Get divorced a
few times, and then
accept the highest
offer.
* *
Windeyer, coun-
sel for Theodore in
the political bribery
case, said the other
side had “shot at
the eagle and
knocked a few fea-
thers out of the tail
of the sparrow.”.
Certainly someone
seems to have de-
served the bird.
* *
The world seems
to be composed of
two classes of fools
—those who think
others fools and
those whom others
think fools.
“Have trains intelligence?” was the title
of a paper at a rqcent science gathering.
Well, we’ve heard of one running down a
saxophone player.
We understand that the greatest nature
event for a long time was the recent trans-
ition of tin hares into white elephants.
* H=
Some women arc getting men’s wages—the
married ones.
* *
Though business men regard stock-taking
as a thing to be dreaded in a brewery, it
should have its compensations.
THIS WEEK’S FAIRY STORY.
So the wife said, “Well, there’s one good
thing, I won’t want any money for clothes
for months.” “What nonsense, dear,” said
the husband, “you simply must have some.
Will £5O be enough?”
■}■ *
It is believed that the prohibition of bet-
ting on electric hares in N. S. Wales has
caused a Sydney syndicate to abandon a
plan to buy Melbourne’s discarded cable
trams, smuggle them over the Murray and
convert them into electric tortoises.
* *
“My face is my fortune, sir,” she said;
But it wasn't ivhat Cod allowed her,
For later he found that she really mcmit
It cost a fortune in powder.
Hi H:
In view of the Sydney Civic Commission-
ers’ appeal to citizens to keep the streets
tidy, it is hoped that motorists will not leave
discarded pedestrians lying about on the
roads.
Hi *
To test its suitability for use under Aus-
tralian conditions a British motor-car was
allowed to turn a double somersault down a
steep bank, and was then driven away under
its own power. Still, our money stays on
some of our potholes.
x *
Sydney newspaper heading: “To Hell with
Bruce.” Well, perhaps so; but there are
other politicians with whom we would not
care to go even to Heaven.
H=
It Canberra is voted “wet,” the glass, in-
stead of falling, will rise.
* *
Though we have the greatest admiration
for modern youngsters, we think many of
them show a culpable neglect in the way
they fail to educate their parents.
* *
Percy Grainger has composed his own
wedding march. But that’s plagiarism. Long
ago we heard of a man who made his own
coffin.
H= He
The greatest trouble with commonsense
is that it isn’t.
Hi Hi
The flowers that bloom in the spring are
often the grass widows of winter.
A German has published “A Treatise on
Dissipating Storms.” A record number, we
learn, have been bought by married men.
“Take it from me!” he used to say
In the Hiss of single days.
Row she does, she does, and he knows, he
knows
It’s the man who pays and pays.
v $
From Glasgow to Loch Lomond, 204
miles, the tram fare is twopence. Until
they get used to it, it must annoy Scotsmen
who go elsewhere to have to walk 20$ miles
to save that much.
* *
Curiously enough, it is in her salad days
that the modern woman goes most without
dressing.
H= *
Some of our Labor leaders, though but
poorly educated, are well red.
LUCKY KID!
“Ain’t he a beaut., Darkie? I s’pose when you’re home you
often have one of them for your breakfus!”
Melbourne Museum has acquired an egg
which is 25,000 years old. We know the hen
that laid it. She was served to us as chicken
yesterday.
* *
There’s nothing new under the sun—and
it’s the same old tale that’s told under the
moon, too.
* *
Mr. Cook, M.L.A., of Victoria, is said to
be a master of the mouth-organ. Well, he
has the advantage over most politicians.
* -! :
Figures show that the people of N.S.W.
contribute ss. per head a year to the hos-
pitals. Motorists, of course, send along their
contributions daily.
* sis
Lucky is- the suburban poultry-keeper
whose chickens all come home to roast.
* *
Seeing’s not always believing. A wife
may see her husband when he comes home
at midnight.
* *
British metallurgists have discovered
metal which can stand salt water. All that’s
needed now is for some-
one to discover a few sea-
men who can do the
same.
* *
A Victorian politician
said the other day that
there were nearly 500
dead men on Melbourne
South roll. Is that all?
The underworld must
have had a quiet season.
* *
It’s strange that, though
a continuous fight is
waged by apple-growers
against the codlin-moth,
never, since the famous
scene with the apple in
the Garden of Eden, has
any scientific effort been
made to protect man from
the much more destruc-
tive cuddlin’-moth.
THE PAINTER.
She painted a wondrous picture,
With colors of lovely hue;
Deep crimson and pinlc and carmine,
Applied with a hand so true.
She changed all the ugly background,
To a landscape most fair to view;
And she looked at herself in the mirror,
And said to herself “You’ll do!”
N.S.W.
DORIG.
THE ADVENTURES OF MALTRAVERS
PLANTAGENET.
By Fitzmaurice Wang.
[Author’s note: In sending along this story
too late for The Bulletin’s novel competi-
tion I should like to draw attention to the
fact that I am the author of all stories
written in England about Australia.]
Chapter I.
The sun had set over the Tropic of Capri
corn as Maltravers Plantagenet cast his
swag, containing three white shirts, his
pyjamas and his Bible (a parting gift from
his mother), on the sun-baked desert. From
the adjacent bush came the sounds of kan-
garoos roaring and fighting over some delec-
table morsel of spinifex. In the trees the
sweet, mournful cries of the emus came
to him as they settled themselves to rest.
Maltravers placed his damper in his billy
and warmed his supper. “Bai jove,” he
said, “I’m becoming a thoroughbred Aussie —
what!”
Chapter 11.
The scene was an animated one. About
fifteen hundred wild mustangs were yarded
up in a corral. A score of red-shirted men
sat on the sliprails. Our hero leaned care-
lessly on his stockwhip handle.
“Here, you greenhorn tenderfoot,” cried
one, known as Bulloeky Heck, “I'll bet you
ten pounds you can’t ride the outlaw.”
Maltravers smiled quietly to himself. He
hadn’t ridden to the Blanksliire Hounds for
years for nothing (in fact, he secretly
shuddered to think how much it had cost
him).
“Strewth and hoopirons,” he said quietly,
“dang me sideways up a goddam oregon if
it ain’t a bet!” (He always liked to humor
the Australian crowd by speaking their own
language.) But surely he didn’t mean to
tackle the outlaw, the creature that had
broken twenty men’s legs and bitten ten
others to death!
Uttering a loud “Coo-ee!” and curling his
stockwhip twice around his head, he lassoed
the animal’s neck.. Then with a cry of “I’ll
show you how an Englishman rides!” he
leapt upon the astonished barebacked animal.
Then began a battle royal between human
and beast*.
Five and a half hours later he dismounted
and led the vanquished creature up by the.
fetlock.
“Gentlemen,” he said with a cultured bow,
“that’s how an Englishman rides.”
Chapter 111.
“Can you milk?” asked the farmer, a typi-
cal old Australian sundowner, who had made
his money by cattle-duffing, one of the coun-
try's finest industries.
Maltravers smiled at the grand old pio-
neer. “An Englishman never acknowledges
defeat,” he said simply. “I can.”
“Good,” said the squatter; “I don’t want
any men on my station who can’t milk.”
The squatter’s daughter, who stood near,
with a shy glance at the handsome face of
Maltravers, softly murmured “Bravo!”
He shot a glance of admiration and grati-
tude at her. “For your sake, sweet maid
I’d conquer worlds,” he whispered.
Marguerite blushed violently. Then a look
of sadness came over her beauteous coun-
tenance.
“What ails you?” inquired Maltravers in
deep concern.
She drew him aside. “Father wishes me
to marry Redgum Alf.”
“That bounder !” cried Maltravers aghast.
HE REMEMBERED.
SHE: “Do you really mean to say you’ve never heard
of Coue?”
HE: “Oh ye-e-es, Ai seem to wemebaH now. Why,
of course! The Austwalian war-cwy!”
“Yes, I know he is,” she whispered, “but
he can milk fourteen cows an hour. Beat
that and I am yours, my -darling.”
Chapter IV.
The church at Speewah Canyon had never
looked so gay. Flags hung from all the
trees that surrounded it, and the local bush
fire-brigade band played gaily beneath them.
Everybody looked glad and happy, except
one. He stood behind a sugarcane-tree, and
scowled on the happy assemblage. It was
Redgum Alf. A hush, then a mighty cheer.
From the portals of the great Outback church
our hero issued, with his beauteous blushing
bride on his arm. As he beamed the crowd
took up the mighty cry:
“He milked fifteen!”
Redgum Alf pocketed his bowie and slunk
away.
[The End.]
[Mulga card forwarded to Pitzmaurice Wang.]


\ts 'New
Idr Ue/p
ml
THE FINE CAR
OF LOW PRICE
STYLED IN THE
LATEST VOGUE
Oldsmobile six
•THE Fine Car of Low Price is the earned title of the new
1 Oldsmobile Six. The spirit of to-morrow is in its swagger
air—i n its charm and individuality of style. The spirit of to-
morrow is in its engineering, which automotive circles pronounce
two years ahead.
Into it have been built one of the most imposing collections of
new features ever found in a car of comparable price. e
natural efficiency of the engine is increased by crankcase venti-
lation, which eliminates excessive dilution—by oil filter, air
cleaner, and a specially controlled cooling system.
The engine is notable for remarkable rigidity of crankcase and cylinder block. It rides
on a newly designed rubber-cushioned mounting, and additional riding comfort is
provided by shock absorbers, which are standard equipment on all models.
There are four-wheel brakes and specially-selected springs which make riding like
gliding. A new rubber core clutch adds softness to the clutch engagement. The frame
is rigid and made of heavy-gauge steel, braced by five cross members.
New vertical shutters, new cooling control, thermostatic charging, full automatic spark
and engine temperature gauge on instrument panel all add ease and enjoyment to col
weather driving.
Nothing has been left undone to make Oldsmobile Six the fine car of low price. We
invite your inspection at your earliest convenience.
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTORS:—
Melbourne: Lane’s Motors Pty., Ltd., Exhibition St. Sydney: Boyd Edkins, Ltd., 109-119 Phillip St.
Brisbane: Pacific Motors, Ltd., Great Ann and Wickham Streets, Newstead.
Adelaide: Vivian Lewis, Ltd., Franklin Street. Perth: E. D. Toe Motors, Ltd., 772 Hay Street.
THE TOURING MODEL
£330
Sports
Roadster
| With
-{ Fisher
[ Body
£3BO
Two-door
Sedan - -
£398
Four-door
Sedan
f With
-j Fisher
[ Body
£450
WARRANTED FOR
ONE YEAR.
Buy from Your
Local Dealer.
GENERAL MOTORS
(AUS.) PTY., LTD.
3
&
o
SS:
0
Five Balloon Tyres and Tubes
Stand&rd Equipment.


HOTEL SYDNEY
Management: Edward T* Cheeseman.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel.
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
Throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
80ft. above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from 19/0
Bed and Breakfast from 13/-
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines).
“Its Quality Never Changes.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
FAME!!
QN merit alone I was selected to supply the
White Trousers for the visiting West Indies
Cricket Team in 1923. In 1926 the Australians
were wearing clothes made by me; also the
New Zealanders in 1927. The West Indian
team playing in Britain this year are wearing
kit exclusively supplied by me.
These celebrated teams are naturally fastidi-
ous over the cut and quality of their clothes.
Are you?
I have been in business now for 25 years and
my Australian clientele is growing rapidly, as
are the number of repeat orders I receive.
The cloth I use is made by the most reputable
manufacturers from the finest Australian Tops.
The cutters I employ are “live” men with
wide experience of British and Colonial tailor-
ing, and the clothes they make are guaranteed
to give satisfaction.
My prices are based on cash payments onlv,
Lounge Suits, for instance, costing from '7
to 10 guineas.
W. G. JENNINGS,
119 Newgate Street, London, E.C.I.
Poverty
Point
“Count Drolatique”: A pretty story might
be written about the vicissitudes of Rupert
Bunny’s early picture of Melba which is sus-
pended above the curl of the stairway leading
to His Majesty’s dress-circle in Melbourne.
When the picture was first shown it caused
considerable comment, and it was in various
galleries before it found a place in Nellie’s
home in London. Following the Voice’s de-
cision to settle in Australia the canvas was
shipped hitherward with the lady’s other
treasures. She parked it at Coombe Cot-
tage, where one of the Firm, touched by its
pictorial beauties and its exceptional historic
interest, begged the Joan of it from the Dame
for display.
. Ghost”: When Charles Archer’s Dram-
atic Students were amusing the suburbs of
y ellington (M.L.), early in the war, the show
included Tommy O’Carroll, who was not a
success. He had a curious mincing pro-
gression and a gentle voice, and Charles
eventually ,told him that he would never be
an actor, but perhaps if he tried dancing
he might earn a crust. It was meant for
sarcasm, but Tommy took it as fatherly ad-
vice, and the last time I heard from him
he was ’Jan Karyl, the creative dance genius
of Europe’s cabarets.”
A.G.M.” (Paris) : It would be difficult
to overstate the success made in the USA.
and Canada by Florence Austral, who has
just returned to Europe after six months on
the other side of the Atlantic. Even with vivid
recollections of the triumphs of Melba, Albani
and other women stars, it could be claimed
that no British-born soprano has ever re-
ceived such acclamation in the United States.
If she became a resident of Uncle Sam’s
territory she would probably soon challenge
John McCormack’s supremacy in popular
favor. The critics of the American papers
have lavished every known degree of eulogy
on her voice, method and temperament.
Edward Moore, of the Chicago Tribune,
wrote: “No soprano voice, at least in my
time, has ever come within miles of hers.”
At the close of her season in England slie
returns to America for a further six months’
tour, embracing all the great music centres
from coast to coast.
“Craiser”: The success of “Chang,” the
film story of a Siamese selector, shot on
the spot and acted by a crowd of villagers
who had never heard of Hollywood, lias
started a wild rush to exploit the idea. A
variant is a picture taken by the British
International Films in and around the Taj
Mahal, the marble wedding-cake memorial
which Shah Jehan built to his wife,
.Mumtaz Mahal. Local Indians, without
previous knowledge of the screen, enacted
the incidents of Shah Jehan’s tender love
story, no doubt omitting that the monarch
assassinated all his great-grandfather’s
descendants except his own children when
he came to the throne.
“Adam Ant”: When Ellen Terry was in
Australia in 1914, her appearances on the
platform were not happy. She had lost
her memory, her eyesight had failed her to
a great extent, and her health was indif-
ferent. Assisted almost to the platform by
her faithful maid Bertha, she cut a pathetic
figure. The whole adventure was ill-advised.
Incidentally, it is not generally known that
her brother Tom was in Sydney for some
years in the late ’eighties. Ellen refers to
him in “The Story of My Life” as “the
black sheep of our family, but a fascinating
wretch all the same.”
“Cauboy”: The Firm asserts that it will
lose by the grand opera season. Well, the
length of the run was known, the prices
for seats were fixed beforehand and the public
did its part by packing each house, so the
result could have been foreseen by simple
arithmetical calculation. The fact is the
management ivas over-generous. There never
has been such under-employment of stars.
The co. was excessively loaded with tenors
and sopranos, some of whom hardly made
more than one appearance a week. Brown-
ing Mummery was kicking his heels in the
dress-circle for a fortnight before he got his
first chance in “La Tosca” in Melbourne.
Hina Spani made a fleeting appearance in
“Lohengrin” and did not show up again for
a whole month, and then only for two per-
formances of “Butterfly.” In Melbourne the
most successful opera of the lot, “The Love
of Three Kings,” made a belated appearance
at the end of the season, and for one night
only. It was all very nice of Nevin Tait—
but was it wise?
“THAIS,” AT HER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
John Brownlee, as Athanael, the Cenobite monk, denouncing the gay life of Alexandria
—assisted by a chorus of his old cobbers.
“Cine Ma”: The showing of the film-
makers’ products in Melbourne and suburbs
gives direct employment to 11,000 people
including 2500 women and 620 members of
the Musicians’ Union. Indirect employment
is probably given! to as many again.
“Uramao”: The curtain has just been rung
down at Invercargill (M.L.) on Alexander
James Byrne (76), who played small parts
in the long ago. One of his early stage
friends was G. V. Brooke; and about his last
boss was Dan Barry. He settled in Invercar-
gill 20 years ago.
“E.E.W.”: Australia’s Hilda Spong, has
stirred New York’s critics to enthusiastic
remarks by her performance of the Rev-
erend Mother Superior in “Veils,” a new
comedy-drama at the Forrest Theatre. Hilda,
whose dad was scenic artist for the old
Brough and Boucicault combination, made
her stage debut with that company at Sydney
Criterion, but it was George Rignold who
provided her big chance by casting her as
Titania for his “Midsummer Night’s Dream,’’
and then retaining her as his leading lady.
When she returned here some' years back to
star in “Everywoman” she was still attrac-
tive, but matured. After a period of retire-
ment, she is now reported to be slim and
youthful once more.
“Elless”: The night Nellie Stewart opened
in “Sweet Nell of Old Drury” at the Mel-
bourne Princess in 1904 is still remembered
by many playgoers as the feast supreme in
theatrical fare. The lavish productions of
Musgrove made other managers look to their
laurels, and every theatre staged a premiere
for the occasion. “The Runaway Girl,” with
Florrie Young and Hugh J. Ward, opened at
Her Majesty’s; Bland Holt, in “The Break-
ing of the Drought,” was at the Royal; and
even in vaudeville there was a stir, the
World’s Entertainers commencing a season
at the Bijou in opposition to Harry Rick-
ards, whose army in the fight for supremacy
was led by Peggy Pryde and the famous
Jackson family. The audience was so appreci-
ative of the Rickards galaxy of stars that it
was 11.20 p.m. when the Jacksons faced the
footlights.
“Cine Ma”: If the nausea of the high-
brow’s of the world doesn’t do it, Hollywood
will probably sign its own death warrant
with the speaking film. There is a wild rusli
in that metropolis of the arts to acquire
rights over movietones, phonofilms, radio-
tones and suchlike devices for making the
celluloid darlings articulate, and if the move-
ment doesn’t defeat its object I for one will
be surprised. If the screen art is anything
it is the art of pantomime. The astounding
success of Charlie Chaplin, the only com-
plete pantomimist on the screen, proves
that. The mental effort required to follow
a filmed story is not a tenth of that required
even to follow the simplest dialogue on the
speaking stage. A spoken bon mot calls for
a mild amount of intelligent concentration,
but a child, an adult moron, or a Sea Dyak
can understand the subtle inference when
Charlie throws a custard pie.
“Ghost” : It was away back in the early
’nineties that Wilson Forbes produced “A
Tale of Two Worlds” in Australia, but some
may remember the incident in the play when
the angel Raphael swoops from the flies L,
says a few rude w’ords to Lucifer, and dis-
appears R. It was an effective piece of
stagecraft, and the usual fairy harness,
running on a taut wire, was used. The
youth who played the angel was precocious
in his regard for wine, and during the Adel-
aide season he appeared one night just in
time for his entrance, and very much under
the influence. He scrambled quickly into his
harness, perched up on the tie-rail in the
gallery, and, at the correct moment, did his
usual graceful swallow-dive. He hit the stage
with his chest, and bounced twice! The
wire had not been tightened up that evening.
After three weeks in bed with broken ribs
ho was able to deliver his lines to Lucifer
with redoubled fervor.
“Hamfat”: Harry Hilling, who was first
the Melbourne and more recently the Syd-
ney Tivoli publicity man before he went
away to South Africa and later to England
on the Firm’s and the Tivoli’s business, has
slipped into a job in London as general
manager for the International Theatrical
Exchange, the biggest affair of its kind in the
world. The concern has offices in Paris,
Berlin and New York, and agencies in Aus-
tralia and M.L. As a side matter he is
expecting a big comedy scenario from his nib
to be screened shortly.
“Cmsar’s Ghost”: “The Ladder of Life,”
which was one of Bill Anderson’s best
money-spinners, was responsible for a memor-
able stage riot in Dunedin (M.L.). The
Highlanders required for the fight scene were
supplied by men of the local volunteer High-
land Brigade, who, authority being conveni-
ently blind, were allowed to wear all their
equipment. The management was surprised
at the rush of applicants to fill the supers’
jobs as Pathans, but did not guess the cause
until Pathans and Highlanders sailed into
one another on the stage, making the fight
a very real one—the lads of the village,
objecting to the attraction the Highlanders’
uniform had for the girls, had taken the
opportunity to settle accounts, and police
had to take a hand before the row finished.
“Adam Ant”: I am informed that each of
the Firm’s theatres shows a profit of about
£25 a week on programmes. The Firm’s
only regret is that it neglected such a fine
gold-bearing seam for so long. The old free
programmes sometimes had a bit of reading
matter in them, but space is so precious
now that all one can read about, besides the
cast, is whisky, lingerie and tooth-paste. I
suppose the restaurants will soon charge
patrons a tanner to read their repertoire of
rotis and ragouts. Incidentally, fhe pro-
grammes for the London gaffs do give a bit
of really interesting letterpress as well as
ads. from beauty specialists.
“Craiser”: Plays and players are often
visited on the smalls after having been tried
out in the cities, but Bill Ayr and his Bush
Players reversed the process when the cur-
tain at Melbourne Palace went up on “The
Sport of Hollow Log Flat.” Ben Fuller saw
the co. doing this anonymous piece so well
in a country centre that he invited them
to town forthwith.
“Cousin J.” : Stage fights ridiculous? Well,
I once saw a most realistic one in a country
town in S. Aus., and in an amateur show at
that. The villain, Sir Richard de Some-
tliingorother, having lured the Lovely Lady
to a lonely spot, was about to encompass her
roo-in, when the hero appeared miraculously
from the wings. The lady screamed, a shot
rang out, and blood gushed from an ugly
wound in the villain’s forehead. It was
splendidly done, and the audience applauded,
but the next moment the villain placed his
hand to his head, saw real blood dripping
from his fingers, and sagged at the knees.
The Lovely Lady fainted, and the hero, in-
stead of going to her aid, threw up his
hands and cried, “My God, what have I
done?” Then several people who weren’t
in the play at all ran to the lonely spot
before the curtain could be rung down; and
all this because the hero had carefully re-
moved the bullet from a live cartridge and
stuffed the aperture with soap.
“Cyrano” (Lond.) : Herbert Mundin, who
nightly packs his grips and journeys to
Australia as Tackeroo Wagliorn in the Lons-
dale-Daly Theatre musical piece “Lady
Mary,” will shortly pack his bags in reality
and journey south under the J.C.W. banner.
He is to play the principal comedy role in
“Desert Song.” Mrs. Mundin, by the way,
hails from Sydney.
“Oilskin”: Little Tich seems to have
needed those pennies that were thrown to
him on his last appearance at the Melbourne
Tivoli. He left no will; his few assets
were swallowed up in funeral expenses and
the liquidation of some trifling debts. As
far back as ’93 he drew a salary of £5O a
week, but later liis screw was £2OO, and in
one week the ghost walked to the tune of
£450. Anyway, precious few variety artists
die leaving more than their props (and their
debts) behind.
“N.Q.”: Are Australians, after all, the
most adaptable of semi-civilised races? Con-
sider these facts. In an American review
the other day there appeared a thoughtful
article from a dramatic critic, stating clearly
and regretfully that when you needed a
“gentleman” for the stage you were bound
to use an Englishman. As a typically fault-
less, gentlemanly, well-dressed English actor,
he named O. P. Heggie. What will the Adel-
aide Repertory Theatre, wherein Heggie’s
dramatic life began, have to say about that!
“Cine Ma”: Claude Flemming has reason
to bless the advent of the talking tilm. He
is now fully occupied at Hollywood giving
lessons to the stars in intelligible English
speech.
“Hamfat”: Robert Mantcll, the tragedian
who died the other day after being an actor
for 52 years, changed his name from Robert
Hudson to prevent confusion with a vaude-
ville performer, though once when he was
broke he was given an engagement under the
impression that he was the vaudevillain. He
went on with a black face and did a dance
act to keep up the illusion and earn his
cheese. He rose from that to be one of
America’s foremost Shakspeareans, and for
many years past has been regarded as that
country’s G.O.M. of the stage.
“Caxton’s Ghost”: The Maoriland cinema
concern is still meeting with opposition.
When it tried recently to marry “Miss
Maoriland, 1928” (Miss Dale Austen), to
Cecil Scott it found that it couldn’t, though
permission had been obtained to use the
Devenport (Auckland) Presbyterian church
in the picture. The bridal party, with a
guard of bluejackets, arrived to find the
meenister barring the entrance to the kirk,
before a large gathering of spectators. He
declared that the picture people had taken
advantage of his permission to advertise that
a mock marriage would take place in the
church, and he forbade the picture to be taken
on the ground that this tended to destroy
the sanctity of marriage.
DICKS ADVANTAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I might as well throw in the game an’ leave
the gal to Dick;
I stand, no chance at all since ’e ’as worked
’is latest trick.
It seemed a pretty equal match —an even-
money bet—
But now I’ll ’ave to grab me ’at, say “Ta-
ta, Liz,” an’ get;
'E’s got a run upon the rails —’e’s bought a
wireless set.
The old cove thinks it wunnerful; an’ every
second night
Dick lugs it over to the ’ousc —that’s if
she’s goin’ right.
The fust time that ’e brought it there I ’eard
the thing begin.
It screeched like forty flirtin’ cats, an ’ellish
sorter din,
An’ Dick turns roun’ to Liz an’ scz “That’s
Melbin’ cornin’ in.”
Now all the f-am’ly sits about an’ listens to
the band,
An’ Liz looks up an’ smiles at Dick. “Now
weren’t that last bit grand?
The singin’ an’ the lectures that come across
the air
Are just too beautiful fer words—an’ ain’t
the wrestlin’ rare?”
A bloomin’ trick like that’s enough to make
a curate swear.
To think that Dick ’d play so low. Still,
you can’t trust a man,
Fer love ’as done worse things than that
, since this old world began.
I ve got one thing to wish ’im now before
I git along:
I only ’ope that w’en ’e’s wed she tunes in
extra strong,
An’ that the kids that make their set yell
jist as loud an’ long.
VICTORIA.
P.T. FINDLAY.


m
3
mm
1
>
i'.
SK
II
:l I]
W\.*
MU
fcc m '
S*
•‘"S'S^r
c*--
m
m
HARDT'S
S&A.RKILIJVG


V
LT
N
/
\
p.
■
N
A
Ss.
I
IV' I I
'■III
Mrs. L. Lyons, Hope Street,
Brisbane, writes: —“For rheu-
matics I found Zam-Buk re-
markably beneficial. I melted
the balm into liquid state,
then rubbed it well into my
arms and shoulders. Zam-
Buk quickly subdued all pain
in muscles and joints, and in
a short time completely rid
me of the rheumatism.
“I have also used Zam-Buk
for sore throat. Irritation and
soreness soon disappeared when
my neck was thoroughly mas-
saged with the balm. My
daughter suffered with bad
attacks of neuralgia, but
Zam-Buk completely took the
pain away.”
Mrs. E. Ryall, 110 Carp 111 Road,
Caversham, S. Dunedin, N.Z.,
says: —“Zam-Buk has proved
highly satisfactory whenever
the children have had colds
in the head or on the chest.
Breathing Zam-Buk’s medicinal
essences into the nostrils, and
rubbing a little of the balm
under the nose and across the
forehead, soon loosens a cold,
makes breathing easy, and
clears the head.
“Rubbed well into the
chest, Zam-Buk brings ready
relief and removes all con-
gestion. Zam-Buk seems to
penetrate right to the weak
spot. It ends chest trouble
in no time.”
Mb it ih
TO END YC
YOUR
ACHES & PAINS
’’JptfERE is much virtue in rub-
bing; but with the aid of
Zam-Buk, healing warmth and
valuable medicated oils are carried
to the seat of the trouble —be it
a cold on the chest, a sore throat,
a strained muscle, or a twinge of
rheumatics.
The refined herbal essences in
Zam-Buk readily soak through
the tiny pores into the deeper
tissue. Pain and irritation are
thus attacked at their source and
any poison setting up inflamma-
tion is actively drawn out by
Zam-Buk.
The feature of Zam-Buk is that
it contains none of the lardy fats
and coarse mineral drugs which
obstruct the healing work of
ordinary ointments. Zam-Buk is
of purely herbal origin and a
unique preparation.
tfTT The Soothing and penetrative power of
Zam-Buk is only equalled by its rare
antiseptic healing for superficial injuries.
“Rub it in” in cases of stiffness in muscles
or joints, strains, sprains, rheumatism, lum-
bago and neuralgia, or to eradicate chills.
am
Buk
Zam-Buk Balm 1/6 and 3/6 box. Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap 1/- a tablet.
All Chemists and Stores.
THE GREAT HERBAL BALM
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
fsd
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
The
Dagenite case and
what it clothes
The “■ works ” of a P. & R. Accumu-
lator are well worth protecting. That
is why we invented and patented
Dagenite in which to case the P. & R.
Dagenite is black. It looks like
ebonite. But it is fire-proof, acid-
proof, almost unbreakable even under
jolts which would reduce ebonite to
splinters. It does not warp, or split,
or crack with age. It is the ideal
case for the ideal battery.
The P. & R. battery deserved the
Dagenite case. The Dagenite case
deserved the P. & R. battery.
Together they form the battery with
the longest working life.
Fid*
and ir^
PETO A- RADFORD
ACCUMULATORS
/Tie beginning and the end in
PoweR
Before you buy any
battery write for
special booklet to
address below*
and
Direct Factory
Representative:
John Arnold,
Degreaves Buildings,
Degreaves Street,
Melbourne.
A. G. HEALING, LTD.,
Melbourne.
SMITH SONS & REES, LTD.,
Sydney.
ROY HILL & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
MOTOR VEHICLES, LTD.,
Perth.
E. REYNOLDS & CO.,
Wellington, N.Z.


sfd
At Your Jewellers
there is a modem ELGIN in keeping with your
business and social status —a watch that can confer
only dignity upon you.
Slender, graceful, accurate, ELGIN is conceded to
be the world’s standard for watch integrity.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
<S>lgin
THEWCH word for elecance and efficiency
yi/s' Jrade Mark
in the V/atch Care
THE
“QUEENSLANDER”
QUEENSLAND’S GREATEST
PICTURE WEEKLY.
Everyone interested in the Queen
State of the Commonwealth should
make a habit of seeing the “Queens-
lander” regularly.
Pictures and news items from every
corner of the State, as well as fea-
tures for every member of the family
are included.
Free specimen copy and subscription
form on application to
The Brisbane News-
paper Co., Ltd.,
Publishers of the
“BRISBANE COURIER,”
“SPORTS REFEREE,”
“Courier” Building, Queen Street,
Brisbane,
Or
SYDNEY REPRESENTATIVE:
ROBT. D. FISHER,
Colonial Mutual Chambers,
74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone 850 07.
SYDNEY EUCHARISTIC CONGRESS
THE Accommodation during this period will be
1 unprocurable. Intending visitors should at once
make provision for this. We have arrangements with
many hotels and boarding-houses m and around
Sydney at tariffs to suit all pockets. These are filling
fast For further information write to
ADVANCE ACCOMMODATIONS,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALASIAN ACCOMMODATION SPECIALISTS.
THE MERCURY,
Tasmania’s Leading Daily
Newspaper.
ESTABLISHED 74 YEARS.
“The Illustrated
Tasmanian Mail”
( Published Wednesdays ).
ESTABLISHED 51 YEARS.
No advertising campaign is
complete without including
Tasmania’s leading journals,
as both circulate extensively
over the whole of the State.
DAVIES BROS., LTD.,
Head Office: Macquarie St., Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE:
F. L. WILSON, 228 Pitt Street.
’Phone MA3161.
MELBOURNE^OFFICE:
“Argus” Building, Elizabeth Street.
LONDON OFFICE:
A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
X
GIVE YOUR BOY A
FAIR CHANCE.
For a small sum annually we pro-
vide him with a substantial banking
account when he starts on his career.
Full particulars from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
sdf
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco*
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists.
6d.
EACH.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6, (posted 6/-); 25, 12/- (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/-
( posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post rrce.
CRAIG § AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors tor Club Reil Cigar Factory*
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Coot”: At Couangalt (Vic.) a breeder of
Berkshire pigs has obtained 28 piglets in two
helpings from a young sow —first 12 and
lately 16.
:i: * si*.
“Sucre”: The Queensland Bureau in Syd-
ney has burst its banks in Kembla Buildings
and its engineer, P J Nally, has headed
the stream into 34 Margaret-street. But
if it continues to expand as it has been
doing it will have to take the Town Hall.
* * * *
“W.W.J.”: “Why not kapok?” somebody
asked in The Bulletin. I ask, Why not
feathers? I sleep on a feather bed which
has been in constant use all through the
pioneering days of South Gippsland—for
nearly 50 years, to my knowledge—and it
seems good for a long time yet. We in
Australia don’t make as much use of the
good feathers and down as we ought to. Our
grandmothers didn’t waste them. *
“B. Goode”: “Te Babarantiko” (B.
27/0/’2B) is anxious to know why tish can-
neries don’t return dividends in Australia.
Having paid for the experience, I can en-
lighten him. Fish taken from the warm
waters of the temperate zone or thereabouts
make a soft pack and lack the clean-cut flavor
and taste found in tish trawled from the
colder waters. There is, however, a market
for smoked fish, mostly sea mullet, which by
special treatment during curing operations
can be given the piquant flavor demanded by
consumers.
* * * *
“G.M.8.”: The honor of growing the
heaviest crops of spuds in Australia, so long
held by the Hogans and Hennessys of Port
Fairy (Vic.), has been snatched from them.
It now belongs to Coleraine. The yield of
the winning field this year was 25 tons per
acre. Even a self-sown crop, which came
up after the failure, through frosting, of a
maize crop, yielded over 16J tons. Accord-
ing to the “Year Book” the average for the
whole State in 1927 was only 2.46 tons, and
the highest recorded is only a trifle over
four tons.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: All the produce of the fer-
tile south-east of South Aus. and the Mallee
wheat lands is still hauled over the hills to
Port Adelaide; but Eyre Peninsula, which
now produces one-third of the wheat of
South Aus., ships more than half of it from
Port Lincoln. The grain is lifted from the
railway trucks into the holds of overseas
steamers —that’s the sort of harbor Lincoln
is. The town is steadily increasing in size
and population, the Cresco Fertiliser people
have established a branch factory there, and
the oil cos. are now putting in depots to
which bulk spirit will be brought direct by
tank steamers.
❖ * *
“Morita”: Touching this time-payment
disease (B. 18/7/’2B). Going over accounts
of player-piano purchasers, I struck one
where no instalments were being collected
and, scenting trouble, I asked the buyer to
call. She duly arrived and with tears in-
formed me it was impossible to make any
weekly payments. She spent the week at the
washtub, and as she had no other source
of income pleaded with me to take the
instrument back. That sale particularly
interested me, so I nosed out the details.
The salesman responsible drew £25 in com-
mission, out of which he generously paid
the widow’s deposit of £lO, clearing £l5 on
the deal.
DIAGNOSIS.
DOCTOR' WIFE: “What lovely big eyes
Edith’s husband has.”
DOCTOR: “Never noticed ’em. Perhaps you
were there when he got my account!”
“Chuck” : The Fresh Food and Refrigera-
ting Co., of Singapore, which was registered
in Sydney recently, should have some in-
terest for Australian producers. The firm’s
objective is the importation of Australian
meat, fruit and other lines, and the distri-
bution of them throughout Malaya. Depots
will be opened in Java and elsewhere, while
the Singapore depot will have room for
1000 tons of refrigerated cargo when the
works open in September. Freight matters
have been arranged with the Dutch Royal
Packet line, which is financially interested
in the refrigerating side of the project.
* * * *
“Hop Scrub”: The apple- and pear-growers
in all States, despite “Eat More Fruit” cam-
paigns and co-operative packing, are going to
come out of this last season pretty badly.
Fancy-grade apples at ss. to 6s. per bushel
don’t mean fat profits even to districts within
coo-ee of the cities. The grower cheapens
production all he can, uses central sheds,
mechanical sizers, juggles between selected
agents and direct sales, but he still hangs
to the time-honored bushel-case. _ What’s
wrong with varying the package a bit? Try
putting apples up in 21b. to 51b. cartons
made of compressed pulp, and sales bo busi-
ness men returning home would increase
mightily. The paper bag has a playful habit
of bursting. The new container would be
neat and efficient. It could be furnished with
a handle. In some American cities the
growers are installing “automats,” which
will deliver a red-cheeked apple for a nickel
(5 cents = 2|d.). A similar scheme should
be worth a trial.
BOWLED OUT.
WORRIED HUSBAND: “Goodness, what’s up
now?”
TEARFUL WIFE: “When I was brushing your
suit I found this bill in your pocket:
"'Red and black ribbons for typewriter,
ten shillings.’”
“Two Seas” : It is a common thing now to
see fat sheep arriving at country fat-stock
sales in motor-lorries, and at Goulburn
(N.S.W.) a dump is to be erected at the
yards for unloading them. The old-time
drover, with his “jingling quart-pot,” is be-
coming merely a legend in the South. The
up-to-date Clancy doesn’t ride behind his
mob singing. He lounges in a sulky or a
motor-car behind long strings of sheep crawl-
ing along interminable lanes. The cushions
of the vehicles are more comfortable than
the saddle, and there is no careful adjust-
ment of swags on packhorses to be consid-
ered. Blankets, tents, billies, etc., can be
thrown into the sulky or car without any
trouble.
* * * *
“Sam Slocum”: Unemployment is being
(Uscussed by every man and woman who
Realises its effect. Even those who are in
work twitch their fingers as they imagine
those depending upon them doing without
the necessaries of life. However, such is
the state of affairs in Hughenden (Q.) that
many white cooks seeking for work in their
line are denied a living. Shearers sympa-
thise with them and brag of the way they
ha vie seen to it that only white men shall
cook for them in shearing shejds, , But in
the kitchens of the hotels to which Aus-
tralians, particularly shearers, rush, Orien-
tals are preparing the meals at low wages
rates. Yet tell a working-man that he is
inconsistent and he immediately becomes
heated.
* * * *
“St. Ann”: It looks as if the Malay,
despite his gentlemanly manners and all the
efforts of the British Government to save
him, will eventually join. Binghi in the
shades. Significant of this is a recent move
of the Singapore Government in setting aside
6200 acres as a reservation for the race,
rising land values on the crowded island
having made it impossible for the native
kampong, based on communal ownership, to
keep its end up in the flood of imported
individualists. The Malay is an anachro-
nism; in this busy world. He has a fairly
venerable civilisation and a written history,
which consists mainly of wars and attempts
by young men about the court to steal the
prettiest odalisque in the ruler’s harem. The
Sultans unanimously trace their descent from
King Alexander of Greece, and their native
code of laws, now obsolete, include some
reasonable provisions, including the death
penalty for the man who marries knowing
that he is suffering from v.d. But these
things are of no avail against the competi-
tion of the materialistic Chinese.
* * Hs H=
“Avon”: Maoriland banks don’t take many
chances. It’s about a year since the seven
per cent, overdraft rate began to make
itself felt in a reduction of imports, and
exports in the period have increased notably
both in quantity and value. There were
murmurings over the retention of the seven
per cent., but the banks were adamant; the
only concession they would make was that
they would be guided by the June quarter
averages. These showed that deposits, nearly
half of which weren’t costing the banks a
penny for interest, exceeded advances by
about 17 per cent., whereupon it was
solemnly announced that the overdraft eate
would be reduced to 6J per cent. The sigh of
relief that has gone up has been tempered by
two circumstances—an announcement that
the new bank for which a charter has been
sought is not pledged to remain outside the
circle of the associated hanks, and an indica-
tion by Francis Bell, who represents the
Government in the Uppah Chambah, that the
bill to give it a charter will be opposed
“by at least one member of the Govern-
ment.”


UIH
3
4-1
Wprnr,
■'Mi
■AW
111
111
llllth
xassa-NOsariH
f~ ftmSuAl DUD SDZJnOC l*D\
GROWTH
Year
1909 -
1910 -
1912 -
1914 -
1916 -
1919 -
1924 -
1927 -
Plant Size
Sq. Ft. of Floor Space
• - - 80,000
- - - 172,000
- - 244,704
- - - 485,392
- - - 847,590
- - - 1,000,000
• - - 1,642,000
• - - 2,724,000
The main plant, shown above,
is a compact unit with 1,500,-
000 square feet of floor space
and a capacity of 1800 cars a
day.
In the Hudson-Essex £ 2,000,-
000 body plant, sheet steel is
unloaded at one end to emerge
at the other in beautifully fin-
ished, staunch and roomy
bodies.
The largest battery of power
presses in the world, for any
purpose, is in the main stamp-
ing division of the Hudson-
Essex body plant. Hudson and
Essex bodies are built to un-
matched standards of quality
and durability.
Hudson-Essex have one of the
most modern axle plants in the
industry.
The Hudson-Essex salvage or-
ganisation is an industry in it-
self, involving saw mills, oil
reclaimers and refiners, fuel
grinders, saving literally hun-
dred of pounds daily.
DEHIND every Hudson and Essex car that
U flashes by you on the road is a manufac-
turing and distributing organisation second to
none in the world—a physical equipment
of plants and machinery capable of turn-
ing out 1800 automobiles a day, each one built
to an extraordinarily high precision of manu-
facture—an aggregation of engineering and
manufacturing leaders ruled by a 20-year
tradition that enforces production of the
highest quality at the lowest possible manu-
facturing cost.
These are the reasons why the new Hudson
and Essex cars are more beautiful in appear-
ance —more luxurious in appointment—more
brilliant in performance.
SEE THEM—TRY THEM for yourself. Your
local Hudson-Essex dealer is happy to put
you at the wheel of the model of your choice.
HUDSON
127 in. Models.
Standard Sedan £550
Landau Sedan 590
7-pass. Sedan 685
118 in. Models. >•
Tourer, Colonial Body 445
Coach, American Body . . . . 500
Coupe, „ „ .... 510
Sedan „ „ .... '520
Five Balloon
Tyres
Standard
Equipment.
ESSEX.
Tourer, Australian Body £27o'
Roadster, ~ ~ 270
Coach, ~ „ 330
Coach, Imported Body . . . . . . 350 l
Coupe, ~ ~ (Rumble Seat) 365
Sedan, Australian Body 345
Sedan, Imported Body 370
Five Balloon
Tyres
Standard
Equipment.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DISTRIBUTORS;
DALGETY & CO., LTD., NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney. Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
MOTORS, LIMITED, AUTOS, LTD.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide. Hay Street, Perth.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD., H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane. Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
Worlds Greatest Value


For “good shooting you must
have reliable ammunition.
ALL-BRITISH ELEY-
KYNOCH CARTRIDGES
are absolutely reliable under all conditions.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL GUNSMITHS
AND DEALERS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
.nobelN
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., DTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, DTD., Redfern, Sydney.
12
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Limerick and Winalot are now among the
(regular workers at Itandwick, and horses
superior in quality to the seedy lot raced
during the winter are beginning to make
their appearance at the Saturday meetings.
Two with A.J.C. Epsom chances, Royal
Tune and Pigeon Pie, scored easily at War-
wick Farm on Saturday. With only bib.
more than his Epsom weight, Bst. lib., and a
vastly inferior field to beat, Royal Pune
looked a fair thing for the Denham Court
Plate, six furlongs, and his party must have
been pleasantly surprised to get 5 to 1, 9 to
2 being the closing price. The gelded son
of Greenstead, himself an Epsom winner,
came home on the bit from Prince Humph-
rey (5 to 1), a smart Maoriland three-year-
old, and Figure (8 to 1) in lmin I3|sec.—
Jsec. outside the course record. He is now
very prominent in the betting on the Epsom.
Pigeon. Pie’s success in the Edensor Park
Handicap was achieved almost as easily.
Twos were the best price, and, though Wren s
nag did not get away particularly well, he
made up his ground fast, led into the straight,
and came away from the unlucky First Acre
(6 to 1) and Koorathella. He is trained
by J. Donohoe, now one of the Randwick
brigade. Adrian, a thing of John “Barons
by Richmond Main —Glass Queen, also im-
pressed by the stylish fashion in which he
disposed of Tarapunga (7 to 2), Valhalla
(5 to 1) and nine others in the Maiden
Handicap, for which he went out at 5 to 1.
He has been “specked” for the Metropolitan.
The Lance (4 to 1) paid the expenses
of his second trip to Sydney by winning the
Warwick Farm Handicap. It took him all
his time to shake off the Baverstock mare
Bavacre (5 to 1), but a head is as good
as a hundred yards in these cases. Violosca
(12 to 1), a mare from the pony courses,
gratified MeShortodds by capturing the Den-
ham Court Purse, Threemen (83 to 1) and
Prest (7 to 1) being the others in the money.
* * * *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Flying Handicap: Prince Humphrey;
next, Quince.
Park Stakes: Valhalla or Good and Gay
(same stable) ; next, Dolomite.
August Handicap: Misty Lad; next,
Luddenham.
Three-year-old Handicap: Figure; next,
Bahlaka.
Campsie Handicap: Benaroon; next,
Algerian Prince.
* * * *
Saturday, August 4, was a black day for
the army of punters 'in Melbourne. They
advanced on the enemy’s lines with the care-
less gallantry of their breed, only to reel
back from the dreadful shock of the very first
race. It was called the Crimea Trial, and
it was a Trial with a dismal suggestion of
the Crimea —Maggie Carilla (33 to 1), the
rankest outsider of the field won it. Re-
turning with their heads bloody but un-
bowed, the dead-game sports were beaten
back in the Steeplechasers’ Flat (Valbroy,
15 to 1), the Australian Hurdle Race (Sir
Alogy, 14 to 1) and the Malakoff Stakes
(Ataman, 15 to 1). After that, though a
5-to-2 chance Avon the Steeple and a 7-to-l
shot “the last,” the fortunes of the day could
not be retrieved, and the final retreat of the
broken division, each wondering what lie
would say to the missus that night and the
landlord or the grocer on Monday, was a,
harrowing spectacle.
There were 11 starters for the big race,
and the Grand National winner, Longlands,
despite adverse rumors, went out favorite
at 4 to 1, Henare, Rumford and Migrant
being at sixes,' Johnny Cake and Seafit at
eights, Romeo—a stable companion of Long-
lands —at tens, and Sir Alogy at fourteens
—and longer in places. According to Ins
custom Sir Alogy hit the front very early
in the piece. Galloping freely and flying Ins
hurdles like a champion, A. 1. Greswiek s
gelding set up such a tremendous lead that
he had the field demoralised before half the
journey had been completed. The only thing
that ever looked like catching him was the
South Australian horse Rumford, and Rum-
ford could not manage it. Sir Alogy ran
home an easy winner by five lengths from
Rumford ; Longlands was seven lengths fur-
ther back and Seafit fourth. Henare, who
CAMOUFLAGED.
“Aha, Colonel, going to play golf, I see!”
“Damme, sir, no-can’t you see I’m going to an egg-laying compelition?"
was eased up by Cairns, was last, and El
Nido fell. Sir Alogy, a five-year-old gelding
by Analogy—Dainty Step, was bred on one
of his owner’s stations. Ken Scott rode him
dashingly, and the brilliant young horse cut
out the Si miles and 20 yards m the very
remarkable time of 6min. s|sec.—a record
for the race, if not for the world.
In the Malakoff Stakes the Holt brigade
went for a win on the Westralian mare
Maple (7 to 2), a popular pick for the Caul-
field Cup. She is a nice-looking daughter ot
liossendale and Honeywood, but reports
from Westralia are not altogether in her
favor, and she certainly didn’t show up on
Saturday. Beppinsan (6 to 1) tried to lead
all the way, but Noscitur (8 to 1) had
charge at the distance; however, Ataman
finished too well fox* the latter and beat him
by a length, Spearer (25 to 1) being a fast-
finishing third; Maple was seventh. iie
winner, an imported gelding by Bachelor s
Double —Bobbina, is owned by Harry Master-
ton and trained by Elwood Fisher. He has
often disappointed when heavily backed.
Despite his load of 12s)t. J2lb> Clan
Robert saw 5 to 4 for the Moondah Steeple.
He found the burden too big for him, Lanage
(5 to 2) winning after an interesting set-to
with Secret Stone (9 to 2). Lanage is not
engaged in the Australian steeple,
neither is Valbroy, winner of the feteeple-
chasers’ Flat.
Most of the stricken punters went for
Southdown, a Seremond gelding m 1 red
Foulsham’s stable, in the last race, the Morn-
ington Welter. He gave them a good run
for what was left of their money,, but old
Wallarak was a bit too solid for lnm
over the last bit. Wallarak. who certainly
didn’t score out of his turn, was ridden
an excellent race by Scanlon.
* * *
Clan Robert is top weight (12st. 71b.)
for the Australian Steeple on Saturday, but
Nvangay, who ran well in the Steeplechasers
Flat, and is weighted at list. 121 b., looks
to hold him safe. Mmterne (list. 101 b.)
has a chance, and so have Epergne (list.
21b.) and Huja (9st. 131 b.). But if bur
Alogy (9st. 101 b.) starts lie will carry
this Page’s confidence. Ihe Australian
Steeple has often been won by the winner
of the Hurdle, and Sir Alogy is in very
light. Selections for Saturday :
Chatsworth Plate: Gay Salute; next,
Australian Steeple: Sir Alogy; next,
Nj ßafadava Stakes: Cairncross; next,
Steeple: Lanage; next, Namei a.
St. Aubin Welter: Woorgun ; next, Smoke
Bomb.
“W.G.A.”: I suppose there will be
some great tote divs. in England when
machine betting becomes fashionable there.
Maoriland’s biggest thus far is £1033 55.,
which was paid out over Wairoa Belle,
winner of a saddle trot at the Nelson T. 0. 3
meeting, March 5, 1920. Tickets were £1
each, and only one went on Wairoa Belle,
the buyer being a Nelson business man.
He distributed £3 ss. among the totalisator
staff, gave £3O to the rider of Wairoa Belle,
and took the £lOOO home.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Kid Socks (Bst. 411 b.). the English ban-
tam, got another decisive licking on Saturday
night at Sydney Stadium. His conqueror on
this occasion was Charlie von Reeden (Bst.
•}ilh l from the U.S.A., whose extraordinary
made the /id look silly Few
were the blows that Socks socked home, and
before the end of the fifteenth round (it
went the full distance) he looked a 3
depressed as he no doubt felt, though lie
went on trying. The Yank soon decani
favorite with the crowd and will doubtless
remain so in his future matches. He is
as lean as Billy Murphy but hasn t the old-
time champion’s mighty punch.
* * *
“R Volt”: Wireless showed what it could
do in connection with the Tunney-Heeney
fight. Fading spoilt the direct broadcast,
but the General Electric Co.’s wireless tele-
phone relayed the ringside description to the
Canadian beam station, which passed it on
to Ballan in high-speed Morse. From thence
it was relayed to Melbourne and Sydney
broadcasting studios, and the whole chain
was so closely knit that listeners were some-
times getting the story blow tor blow and
only a few seconds late.
***
The Tliye-Eklund fiasco of the previous
week had its effect on the offertory at
Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night, new-
comer “Pinkie” Gardiner (12st. 31b.) and
Clete Kaufman (12st. 71b.) having to con-
tent themselves with cuts much below the
average. Soon after the commencement it
was evident that Clete was just making up
the necessary number. In the third round
“Pinkie” scored a fall with the Boston crab;
in the seventh he finished his display by
grasping Kaufman in a crotch hold,
swinging him around like a Catherine wheel,
and dumping him for the deciding fall. His
splendid physique and cleverness greatly
impressed the small crowd.
Footbrawl
Saturday’s Vic. League games practically
decided “the four.” If Essendon is foolish
enough to lose two of its next three matches
St. Kilda may displace it; but to do that
the Saints must beat both Collingwood and
Melbourne, and they are very unlikely to
do it. The hardest, fiercest game of the
season was staged at St. Kilda, where Carl-
ton and the Saints, level for fifth place, set
about deciding the issue, largely by main
force The 30,000 spectators saw solid fol-
lowers and backs throw themselves about
recklessly, trying to “mark” or to spoil
the other man. The Saints pushed the Blues
out of the four finally by 93 points to Carl-
ton’s 69. Footscray, level with these teams
for fifth place, was apparently disheartened
by having two of its men disqualified—one
for six weeks, the other till October 29—and
failed against Fitzroy by one point 89 to
’Roy’s 90. Richmond got within coo-ee ot
second place by downing Melbourne, 79 to
50 • Collingwood entrenched itself lmpreg-
nably in the top hole by compiling 120 to
63; and Essendon took no risks of losing
its fourth place by cantering over Geelong.
82 to 38. For some inscrutable reason the
quite unimportant match between North and
South degenerated into a bitter struggle;
two men were carried off, knocked out by
concussion, and one is in hospital with a
broken jaw. North won by S 2 to SO.
$ * * *
Depression has now vanished from Maori-
land, for the All Blacks arc winning their
matches by substantial margins. Last week
they beat North-Eastern Districts (Cape
Province) by 27-0 and the Border (Cape-
Natal) by 22-3. Next Saturday’s game will
be against Eastern Province, a strong side,
and then comes the third Test on August 18.
* ••!= * *
The Rugby Union fixtures in Sydney on
Saturday, with every player anxious to im-
press the selectors of the team for Maorihmd,
produced some sparkling football, especially
the game between University and Randwick.
University got home by 14 (4 tries and a
converted goal) to 11 (3 tries and a con-
verted goal). Northern Suburbs and East,
who had to contend with a muddy ball and
a slippery ground, played a draw, 11-11.
Y.M.C.A. and Glebe-Balmain provided an-
other tough but lively tussle, the Young
Men getting their noses first p>ast the post
by 16 to 14; while Manly beat St. George
by 17 to 9.
* * * *
The Australian Soccer team in Malaya
finished its Singapore visit last week with
a draw, 2-2, with the Yorkshire Light In-
fantry, who are in garrison there, after
beating Singapore Europeans, 6-0. The
soldiers appear to have given the tourists
the toughest game of their tour, but Soccer-
form is nrettv good in the Line regiments.
(Continued on page 41.)
The Stanford University baseballers, now
in Sydney, struck form quickly after their
initial defeat by Victoria. South Aus. was
beaten by 26 to 3, and N.S.W., the strongest
State side in Australia, by 9 to 3; and on
Saturday the visitors accounted for Aus-
tralia by 13 to 6, though Australia was not
disgraced. The tourists are i fine specimens
of American manhood, and good fellows all.
LUNATICS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I passed our links and on the hill,
The midnight moon aflame,
Saw ghosts of golfers, playing still
The Royal and Ancient game.
Right grim it was to see, and sad,
A spectre duff his drive,
With crook&d left both quick and bad,
As though he were alive.
I saw them, filmy, thin and grey,
A-searching in the rough
Where phantom halls had gone astray;
I heard strange sounds enough.
Strange sounds, and yet familiar ! Clear
Rang “Deary-me!” and “Drat!”
Oh, it was sliuddcrsome to hear
Pale spirits swear like that!
And one drove to the shortest green
To hole in three at most
Long in the bunkers was he seen
To delve. Alas, poor ghost!
Some pals of mine there were to swing
Clubs in those toiling hosts.
Ye gods! it is a fearsome thing
To see plus-fours on ghosts.
On ghosts? But all were in the flesh,
And well and hearty, too!
I rubbed my eyes and stared afresh....
And then, at last, I knew:
These were the troubled souls iof friends
Whose bodies slept in bed,
A-working out their rightful ends
With spiritual tread.
These were the restless souls of those
Who marked their cards in pain,
Dressed up in dreams of tasselled hose
To “have that shot again.”
I turned (Pity all lunatics!)
In contemplative sorrow
Homeward, ho polish up my sticks
For twice eighteen to-morrow.
RIKKI T.


Do You Realise
jAcMtiq
make Sets of
GOLF CLUBS
to Suit every Purse?
Pitcher Maahie Niblic Mashfe Maahie Iron Mid Mashie Midlfroij Driving Iron
New 1928 “SWEET SPOT” Custom Made Sets
KROFLITE IRONS
Uniformity conserves energy; it ensures the repetition of an act.
Uniformity is the most important essential in golf. Great golfers
are great because they have a uniform swing—they can swing in
the same ‘groove” every time. With the average set of clubs this
presents difficulties. But not' so with Spalding, who have made
every club in the bag feel exactly alike with the “Kro-Flite” Set.
In Spalding clubs the shafts are exactly matched. There is an exact
increase in pitch from one blade to another. There is also an exact
variation in the lie of each club. The distance you stand from the
ball is automatically determined. Such absolute uniformity must bring
greater uniformity to your game. °
OjOIi&3
S jo JOS
0/OMI3
A jo »es
KROFLITE WOODS
i?nT*p ? ace * . , Custom-made Sets Spoon to Match if Required
voriJriw r il*JES 0 /* ature ° f f he ? e clubs is that, unless a driver and brassie are
+ , matched from the very beginning of their manufacture, it is practically impossible
to select two regular clubs from stock that are directly related to each other.
* pff.
Clubs of very finest quality and equal in every way to our Custom-made Sets, but
manufactured as single clubs only. Finished with highest-grade hickory shafts and
long, best-grade calf grips. Made in Men's Right and Left Handed and Ladies’.
“CRESCENT” WOODS
These Clubs are made up with a fine-grade hickory shaft, persimmon wood head,
striped, aluminium sole plate in driver, brassies and spoon.
Made in Men’s Right and Left Handed and Ladies',
“CRESCENT” GRADED IRONS
These graded Clubs are wonderful value and beautifully finished. Popular model
heads, made up in men’s right and left hand, and ladies’. Can be bought in sets or
single clubs.
“THISTLE” WOODS
Good grade hickory shaft and persimmon head, striped.
Made in Men’s Right and Left Handed and Ladies’.
“THISTLE” IRONS
™ V ?s y low-priced Club, made in Driving Iron, Mid Iron, Mashie
Mashie Niblics and Putters.
Iron,
KROFLITE—AUTOGRAPH MODEL
3*s'
m ea.
22'6 ea.
15'
m ea.
IS'
o ea.
10'6 ea.
A. G. Spalding 8 Bros. (Australasia) Pty. Ltd.
352 Kent Street, Sydney.


E
J qdllons of
petrol will take
qou to to
RANELAGH
The motorist’s holiday paradise—Bl
miles from Sydney by the Sou h Co; •
road—2,2oo feet above sea level—ti
Management—G. M. Lievain Robe run*.
Inclusive Tariff from £l/1/* per
day, and from £6/6/- per week.
Sydney Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street.
’Phone: 86491. q
u
u\
"
is
r RITO
tUC
BAtM
:,n i
A HOT BATH READY
THE INSTANT YOU NEED IT
You’ve had a tiring day and a hot bath would be so welcome!
Wouldn’t it be “great” to be able to turn on the hot water without
any worry of chips or paper or matches or lighting gas and waiting
till the water heats up! Get a
“TRITON”
Electric
Bath Heater
which has the water already hot for you! Just turn on the tap and
get in and enjoy a shower or a slipper-bath! The “Triton” is the
very latest in hygienic bathroom equipment, and its advantages are so
many and it is so economical in operation that it very soon pays
for its installation and becomes an actual saving
Full particulars from the Manufacturers and Patentees:
THOS. ABBOTT & CO..
13a Hardware Street, Melbourne. ’Phone: Fl/OliS.
Corner Wynyard and Margaret Lanes, Sydney. N.S.W.
Ill Taranaki Street, Wellington, N.Z.
AGENCIES: A. C. Clarke, 112 Gawler Place, Adelaide,
Harris Scarfe and Sandover, Ltd., Perth, W.A. W. H. Knight
and Peter Bros. Pty., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston, Tasmania,
James Campbell and Sons, Ltd., Brisbane.
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Footbrawl
The first match between the English Rugby
League and Maoriland came off at Auckland
on Saturday before a big crowd, and the
local men paralysed the tourists by having
the dashed temerity to win by 17-13. Stub-
born defence was the keynote of the Maon-
landers’ game, while persistent infringements
of the scrum rules, as usual, lost the English-
men a lot of advantage, and cost them 6
points in addition.
* * * *
“Haw”: When the English League foot-
ballers arrived in Auckland they informed
local press representatives that they were not
satisfied with the Australian referees. Pos-
sibly they found most of them too send-offish.
* * * *
The sad case in which N.S.W. Rugby
League football finds itself this season was
further emphasised in the final inter-State
match of the season against Queensland at
Brisbane. The home side won by 21 (5
tries, 3 goals) to 10 (2 tries, 2 goals).
The Northerners were without two ot
their star backs, Gorman and Craig, but
their superiority was obvious. Colin Laws
took Gorman's place at centre tlireequarter,
and played the back game of the day. Other
newcomers in the Queensland side were
Wright, alongside Laws, and Cruden, a new
wing tlireequarter; Cruden was particularly
effective, scoring twice. The forwards over-
ran the Welshmen in the second half, Sellars
being outstanding, though the Blue forwards
got most of the ball, thanks to Justice.
Queensland has won three of the four inter-
state games played this season, and how it
lost the second game in Sydney is a mystery.
* * # *
The Rugby League grade games in Syd-
ney on Saturday provided rather better foot-
ball than’ has been seen in this code of late.
At the Cricket Ground St. George, drawn
against University again, downed the
students by 5 tries and a goal (17 points) to
a try and 2 goals (7 points). St. George had
Kelly back in the pack after his reduced
period of suspension, and the young man did
well. Eastern Suburbs, which leads the
competition with St. George, made no mis-
take against Newtown, winning by 4 tries
and 7 goals (all kicked by Oxford) to a try
and a goal—26 points to 5. Western Sub-
urbs beat Glebe by 16 (4 tries, 2 goals) to
5 (a try and a goal) after a very sbousliful
game, which saw a forward sent off from
each side; and Balmain scared fits out of
South Sydney before the latter got home
by 17 (3 tries and 4 goals) to 15 (3 tries
and 3 goals). The Tigers played then-
best game of the season.
SEEING STARS.
“Tunney was guaranteed £105,000; Heeney’s share was
£20,000.”
“Canny Lad” : While the English League
footballers happed a tidy bit o’ brass out
of their Australian tour, the local lads did
none so dusty. Every player against the visi-
tors in the Test matches pulled down £lO 10s.
—none of your measly quids ! —and members
of State teams got £7 7s. each —none so
ugly, nowther, as they say in Yorkshire.
Some of the lads played for N.S.W. and
Australia in all the fixtures, and these
pouched £92 Bs. apiece. In addition, players
on tour got £1 a day, and when training
for a match 255. an afternoon. Twenty train-
ing afternoons brought each trainee in £25.
Add to that the players’ shares from the club
games, and a lot of these amateur lads have
got away with close on £2OO for a season of
about four months. Yet, as the manager of
the Englanders was careful to explain, Rugby
League players are working men, and as
much amateurs as anyone else. The won-
der is when some of them find work at
any other trade but League football.
“Retired Trap” : It has long been a moot
point among players of Australian-rules
football as to whether a police constable
lias any right to enter upon the enclosed
playing area of a club and arrest a player
whose conduct has warranted arrest, in the
John Hop’s opinion. There has never been
any doubt about it where other codes are
concerned, but the peculiar rules of the
Australian game, which will not permit the
intrusion of a medical officer, even, without
the invitation of club officials, have sup-
ported the theory. Doubts were set at rest
by a decision in the Albury (N.S.W.)
police-court, the other day, when a central
umpire who had sought to prevent the entry
to the ground of a policeman bent on inter-
vening in a tight between two players during
the game was fined for obstructing the police.
The players were also fined on a charge laid
by the officer.
t- * * *
“Norwood” : A veteran of South Aus. foot-
ball is W. Scott, who played his 31st game
for South Aus. in the recent match against
Westralia at Adelaide. Scott, who was vice-
captain of the team on this occasion, began
his inter-State career at Perth in 1921, when
he played against Victoria. He also attended
the inter-State “carnival” at Hobart in 1924
and that at Melbourne last year. He has
figured in every inter-State team since he
first repped, mostly at centre half-back, and
has thrice won the trophy for the best
player on the side.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: The Americans are an eclectic
lot. It is many years since a Melbourne
dentist showed university students in Cali-
fornia the art and science of Australian foot-
ball, but the seed has borne fruit in a con-
tract which “Oargie” Greeve, the Geelong
player, has signed to act as instructor to the
University of California. It is felt over
there that some of the finesse of the Aus-
tralian game would help to debrutalise the
display of crude force which passes for foot-
ball in the States. They could not have
picked on a better man than who
was the first to win the Bi;ownlow medal
for the fairest and best player of the year.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Worm Cast”: Who said “Keep your eye
on the ball”? An Oamaru (M.L.) girl
golfer who usually wields a wicked brassie
recently missed her tee shot completely at
a 140 yards hole. Shutting her eyes, she
swung at the ball with savage rage—and
holed out.
:jc * *
“157,310”: A golfing crow at Harrow
(Vic.), which had given so
much trouble that it was
named “Colonel Damurize”
by the associate members, on
whose play it seems to have
kept a keen eye, got away
with a ball from an associ-
ates’ game once too often.
The ladies interviewed the
caretaker to such effect that
the latter set a rabbit trap
baited with a golf ball.
Though other baits had
failed, this one scored, and
that was the end of the
“Colonel.”
* * *
“Colonel Damurize”: I
have returned to Sydney,
much rested, mentally and
physically, by my with-
drawal to a place where the
woman golfer doth not inter-
rupt nor the associate break
through and squeal. It was
an inspiration—due to my
old military training, I
) suppose—which led me to
give out that I was taking
refuge in Centralia, and I
had occasion to laugh heart-
ily on reading in your
columns that a flying expedi-
tion of women golfers had
been despatched on my trail
(B. 18/7/’2B). As a matter
of fact, I retired to Geelong. By timing my
appearance on tlie links so as to avoid the
hours when associate members might be ex-
pected to be attempting to play, I found
surcease from annoyance. I refer, of course,
to the early morning, before the average
associate player has managed to get out of
bed, her husband having cooked the break-
fast and gone to work, and to the late even-
ing, when it was more than time for her to
go home and open a tin of sardines for the
old man’s dinner. I engaged the services of
a small caddie, whose cherubic appearance
had led to a great demand for his services
by the associates, and who was, therefore,
as embittered on the subject as I am myself.
We were in complete accord, and I must
admit that he told me a lot of things about
the female of the golfing species and her
idiosyncrasies that I should never have been
able to imagine in my most exalted moments.
Some of these I propose to utilise later.
“Sandringham”: Victorian golfers c
warming up for the State amateur ci
pionships, and the holder of the title, W. •
Edgar, now in his twentieth year, has been
giving his intending challengers a taste)
of what is in store for them. Over the Com-
monwealth course the other day, he
round in 72 off the stick in a club competi-
tion. That is eight strokes better than °» l .
for one of the toughest courses in Australia.
Yes, golf is a game for the man who starts
young at it. * * *
“Let Go”: “Budge” (B. 18/7/’2B) can
add Port Fairy (Vic.) to liis list ot seaside
golf courses. This hamlet s links possess a
couple of sand greens that are as fast as
lightning, and one natural bunker to cross
consists of a stream of salt water.
* * * *
“Dan Duffer” : The Kooyonga G.C. (S.A.)
has silenced those who said it would be
many years.before it would challenge Royal
Adelaide for the supreme position that club
has held in South Aus. golf for a generation.
A difficult championship course is making
good golfers. The Saturday after 19-
year-old Bill Rymill, son of Kooyonga s
founder, had wrested the South Aus. amateur
title from Legli Winser, the Kooyonga
team, for the first time, beat Royal Adel-
aide, both at Seaton and Kooyonga. Ihe
F. N. Simpson <Cup now
goes to the Eooyonga club-
house, which also shelters the
Australian open and South
Aus. amateur championship
titles.
* * *
“The Mcllaggis”: Golf,
like most games, has its
queer happenings. Sydney
furnished one the other day,
when a Maoriland player,
using one of those wooden
pins which are now being
generally adopted for tees in
place of the old “nievefu”
of sand, drove off without
any apparent contretemps
and then played a good second on to the green.
Setting down to his putt, he found that nis
ball had been transfixed by a tee-peg.
Whether it was the one from which he drove
off or one picked up on the way to the next
green no one seems to know. The model n
golf-ball has an outer casing almost as imper-
vious as a steel plate. How the peg in
this case penetrated it—and not through
the centre, but just through a segment ot
the circumference —is another puzzle. The
question of the penalty to be incurred 01
to be remitted in the circumstances is too
deep for off-hand decision. I am referring
it to St. Andrews ; in the meantime, some ot
The Bulletin’s golfing jurists might care
to render an interim judgment.
=s= * * . *
“The McHaggis”: In these days when
golf balls cost up to two guineas a dozen,
the average player finds the lost-ball problem
a serious one, while, if he is of Scottish
nationality or extraction, the burden often
induces him to give up the game, tempor-
arily, at least. All will hear, then, with
rejoicing of Mr. S. J. Bens, of N’York, who
has invented several types of ball which are
practically self-finding. One is coated with
a mixture of volatile chloride and a sub-
stance which will produce ammonia. When
the ball falls into long grass, the dampness
near the ground causes a chemical reaction,
and a vapor of ammonium chloride arises to
guide the player to his pill. Another type
is coated with an explosive compound which
fills the “dimples.” When the ball is struck,
a series of tiny explosions commences, and
continues for some time after the ball has
stopped. The only drawback to the brilliant
ideas is that they promise to make the ball
even more speedily accessible to the thieving
small boy—the fons origo of 90 per cent,
of lost balls —than it is under present con-
ditions.
The Olympiad
Our Olympic team did no good in the track,
field and indoor contests at Amsterdam.
Misfortune did not spare it (Hyde, for in-
stance, ran with a poisoned leg and Watson
hurdled with a damaged ankle), and Carlton
and at least one of the Victorians will prob-
ably show improved form before they return
home; but several members of the team were
plainly outclassed, as everybiody expected
them to be, except the selectors. The lessons
of past Olympiads and comparative per-
formances were lost on these remarkable
gentry —delegates from State athletic bodies,
each barracking for some local champion or
champions. Nearly all the trippers were
drawn from two cities; South Australia,
Westralia and the Speck were quite ignored.
Canada fielded an outstanding performer
in Williams, who, though he is from British
Guiana, has learned his running at a Can-
adian University. Williams’s double win in
the 100 and 200 metres sprint events is likely
to stand for many a day. Atkinson scored
for South Africa in the 110 metres hurdles.
and emphasised the fact that the small South
African white community always manages
to dig up a formidable sprinter or hurdler.
Britain herself did excellently with D. G.
Lowe in the 800 metres (he won it in 1924
also), arid Lord Burgliley in the 400 metres
hurdles. The American contingent, which
scored in both hurdles and the 200 metres at
Paris, arrd expected to do even better in
individual events on the track this time, had
to be content with the 400 metres, but dis-
tinguished itself in the relays and the field
events. The Finns, headed by Nurmi and
Ritola, again practically monopolised the
long-distance runs, including the 3000 metres
steeple, though they lost the javelin-throw
title to Sweden.
At the moment of writing. Pearce is ex-
pected to win the sculls and Charlton the
1500 metres swim. But if there is any
lesson to be learned from Australia’s
showing, it is that the existing farcical
method of selection must be scrapped
FAIR’S FAIR.
MOTORIST: “Shake hands, now, or I shall
be very much hurt!”
VICTIM: “Well, it’s your flamin’ turn, ain’t
it?”
in favor of a method of selection by a sole
selector. There have been men who could
fill the job, and others can be found. An-
other is that State athletic bodies must lay
down decent cinder running tracks, such
as are employed in all other countries which
seriously affect track athletics. There is not
one up-to-date running track in Australia
to-day, especially for sprinters and middle-
distance events ; Sydney, largest of the coun-
try’s athletic centres, is the worst oft of all
in this respect. To expect youngsters to
learn to run up to world-beating form on the
rough grass patches and the mud strips which
are dignified with the name _ of running
tracks in this country is imbecility personi-
fied. Further, it ought to be recognised that
Australia produces great oarsmen and great
cyclists and great swimmers, but has never
been noted for the production of wrestlers.
The sending of three wrestlers was a par-
ticularly bad blunder, especially as no trouble
was taken to ascertain the conditions under
which the wrestling was to be held.
Racquet and Bawl
The curtain was rung down on inter-
national tennis for the season with France s
defeat of America in the Davis Gup by four
matches to one. Oocheh, after beating
Hennessey and helping Borotra to win the
doubles, downed Tilden in their singles
game after a stiff go, scores being 9-7, 8-t>,
6-4 while Lacoste beat Hennessey by three
sets to one. Cocliet, the ex-ball-boy, can
fairly claim, after this performance, to be
ranked as the world’s Number One tennis
! ' layor -,
“11. Hencoop”: “Rev. Knucklebone” (B.
11/7/’2B) waxes indignant because of Tilden s
and Borotra’s reluctance to accept points due
to bad decisions. What’s wrong with the
principle of the thing, anyway? If a man
knows he’s been unfairly credited with a
point, why shouldn’t he make it up to his
opponent? “Mr. Knucklebone’s” analogies
with cricket and football are quite false.
When a cricketer drops a chance deliberately,
or a footballer voluntarily muffs a ball, he
cannot reckon the consequences of his
chivalry; he might be recompensing the other
side over-much or under-much. Consequently,
the tradition of these games is that a mis-
take must be allowed to stand. But m tennis,
a man can definitely offer a quid for a quo;
if A loses a point because of bad umpiring,
B can return him the exact quantity. Know-
ledge of this is leading up to the establish-
ment of a tradition in tennis; and 1, tor
one, welcome this indication that men can
play with the same sportsmanship at Wimble-
don as they use on the back lawn.
(Continued on next page.)


ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up—Beautiful
lighting effects—A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Cafe de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines').
(,Also under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
il
a yj
■ i
liiff
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
T. M.
Proprietor:
AHERN.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Cuiwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
World's Pigeon Championship.
Melbourne Gun Club, July 6, 1928.
Ist. W. BAULDERSTONE (S.A.).
3rd. “CALROSSIE” (Vic.).
Both used
W. W. GREENER
GUNS.
There is no better
Shooting Gun made.
Procurable from all GUN DEALERS.
Catalogues on Application.
Wholesale Representatives j
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE, C.l.
Car and Cycle
“Reliable”: A notable all-round reliability
performance goes to the credit of an Oldsrno-
bile car which recently concluded an “all-in”
tour of 4500 miles in 17i days, the route
being from Muswellbrook (N.S.W.) through
Queensland to Brunette Downs in the North
ern Territory, and back. The trip was taken
by James White, of Edenglassie, who is a
director of the big N.T. cattle station, and
many additional miles were covered while
inspecting all quarters of the run. The car
gave no trouble whatever, though the con-
ditions encountered comprised all manner of
roads, near-roads and no roads at all.
*'* * *
“Pram”: The small car in a competition,
like the small tyke in a dog-fight, usually
has the public’s sympathy, but in the case of
the car it is often worth while backing the
midget. An Austin Seven has just put up
a 24-hour small-car record at the Monthlery
track, near Paris, knocking spots off the pre-
vious record of 40.8 ml.p,h., put up by a
French machine. The Austin covered 1584
miles in the time, and averaged 66 m.p.li.,
80 m.p.h, being reached.
* $ $ *
“Buzz”: The N.S.W. motor-cycle dirt-
track racing season will open at Wentworth
Speedway on September 1, and during the
spell improvements suggested by the experi-
ences of last year have been made to the
track. The local crack, “Paddy” Dean, who
has been riding with success in England,
will be a competitor at the meeting, and
other prominent riders in Blake, Hollis and
Van Praag will also be seen. Dean’s
performance, after his English experience,
should be interesting.
* * ' * *
“Hothami”: Melbourne is preparing to
indulge in an orgy of dirt-track motor-
cycling, and a governing bodv styled the
Auto-cycle Council of Australia has been
formed of delegates from the various States.
The controlling body, as far as Victoria is
concerned, is the V.M.C.C. —with this is
amalgamated the Track Riders’ Register.
Three tracks will cater for the game, and
another is to be opened; those ready to
begin business are the Motordomo, the Exhi-
bition and the Aspendale tracks. The Aus-
tralian body has made arrangements for
affiliation with the A.C.U. of Great Britain,
which lyill ensure unanimity in the inter-
change of riders between Australia and
Britain, as occasion arises.
* :K #
“Whizz”: Though English and Continen-
tal riders are taking to the new game, the
Australian riders continue to dominate in
the dirt-track motor-cycle races which are
threatening to shake the fur out of the tin-
hare industry in Britain. Among the winners
of recent big events, are West.ralian R.
Johnston and Frank Arthur, of South Aus-
tralia. Arthur heads the winning list with
154 points, Queenslander Vic Huxley being
second with 129; Billy Lamont, of N.S.W.,
is third with 80. so the successes have a
truly inter-State flavor. Arthur is riding a
2f-h.p. Harley Davidson, while Huxley and
Lamont pin their faith to the Douglas.
* * * *
“Glenelg” : One of the giants of old-time
cycling in South Australia is W. J. Dale,
who retired from the presidency of the S.A.
League of Wheelmen recently. He began
with the old Norwood club in the days of the
high bike, when he was 18, and won many
track and road events on the old-style
machine. He invested in his first “safety”
in 1890, but in 1902 turned out for his last
road race on one of his old favorites, and
beat a field mostly composed of the new-
fangled field jiggers with the aid of a handi-
cap. Later lie won the last track race in
which the high machines competed—this was
at Gawler. He thus secured the unique
double of winning the last track and road
races held in South Australia in which the
high wheels were allowed to take part.
Miscellaneous
“Shrewsbury”: The gloomy news from
Amsterdam was forgotten for the time being
when the personnel of the English cricket
team for Australia was announced. The
choice of Chapman as captain, is popular on
this side; Australia likes the man and likes
his cricket. Mead’s selection furnished the
surprise, for the Hampshire left-hand bats-
man was a comparative failure when here
with Warner in 1911-12; however, he is still
a great run-getter, being high on the English
averages for the season. Hobbs, Sutcliffe, Tate,
Freeman and Ilendren practically picked
themselves. Among the newcomers to Aus-
tralia is White, the Somerset skipper, a fine
left-hand slow bowler and a batsman above
the ordinary. Hammond everyone has heard
of; in him one expects to see a professional
batsman of the dashing type which vanished
with George Ulyett and Maurice Read, while
he is a first-change bowler. Ernest Tyldes-
ley, from Lancashire, is another professional
bat of the forcing breed. Larwood has
achieved a reputation as the only first-class
fast bowler England has produced for 25
years, and is expected to do big things if he
can stand the strain of an Australian season.
Leyland is a solid Yorkshire batsman who
can bowl a bit. The wicketkeepers, Ames
of Kent and Duckworth of Lancashire, are
both professionals; Ames is a high-class
batsman. Staples, another professional, is a
right-hand spin bowler from Notts; his suc-
cess on the tour in South Africa last year
had a lot to do with his selection. Jardine,
the third amateur in the team, is considered
one of the finest batsmen in England, though
he is on the slow side. The fielding is first-
class in all departments, even the elderly
Mead being useful in the slips. Altogether,
the side looks more formidable than the last
to visit us. It has evidently been selected
for staying purposes rather than for fast
going.
* * ■* *
“Amateur Pro”: The selection of Hendren
for the English team caused some surprise
on this side, inasmuch as he was known
to be under a coaching contract with the
S.A.C.A. Patsy was unable to accept the
invitation without consulting the Wheatfield-
ers, who, true to their sporting traditions, at
once waived the contract as far as the coming
season is concerned. So the little Middesex
dasher will have a free hand on his third tour
of Australia.
: i { 5k sfc Jfi
“Ovens” : The Englishmen ought to make
a trip to Wangaratta (Vic.) to meet the
winners of the Wangaratta and district
competition last season—Eugene Ivneebone,
his six sons and. four nephews. The team
(called Brookfield) plays in a paddock next
to the homestead, the verandah of which is
the grandstand. A skirted member of the
family is the scorer.
>!« * H* *
“Aigburth”: As season after season goes
by it becomes more evident that Australia
lost one of its very greatest bowlers when
E. A. McDonald became a professional in
England. Since he began to play with Lan-
cashire he has been the main cause of the
County Palatine’s ascendancy in English
cricket. He is one of those rare trundlers —
Spofforth w r as the outstanding example—who
can bowl fast and medium-pace with equal
deadliness, suiting pace and style to almost
any wicket. Up to the end of July Mc-
Donald had taken more wickets than any
other bowler in England except Freeman, of
Kent, who had bagged 205 at 16.48 with his
slows. McDonald’s figures were 138 at
19.28. He is a match-winner if ever there
was one.
* # if *
“Billy the Goose”: I see be the road-
scrapers that a shiela named Konapacka ’as
won the discus-throwin’ fer bints at the
Olympik show. I ain’t much shook on
wimmen in sport at enny time, it bein’ my
eggsperience that the sect is a bit too sudden
at puttin’ the double-cross over before the
lord o’ creashun can work it ’imself. But
it wuz on’y w’en I jerries that the discus
is a sort o’ soup plate made uv i’on that I
sees the reel danger in the joke. Any cove
that’s bin as much married as meself needs
no tollin’ wot the ole woman c’n do with
the crockery w’en a cove comes back fr’m
the ponies with ’ees wages done in. But
fer the merciful fact that not one tabby in
C.E. MORGAN, a prominent Rugby Union
referee and official, who has been
appointed manager of the team leaving
for Maoriland on August 17.
a thousan’ c’n ’it wot she’s aimin’ at, there
wouldn’ be many uv us ter yap erbout it.
But it appeers this ere discus game calls fer
straight throwin’, an’ orl the queens that
takes it on c’n chuck erlong a chalk line.
Lettin’ ’ereditty take its course, it won't
be long before the female o’ the speshees ’ll
be able ter make Charlie Macartney and
Johnno Taylor look like also-rans w’en it
comes ter w’ippin’ things in ter the wicket-
keeper, an’ that won’t make the world too
safe fer ’usbandry, so ter speak. They tell
me this discus lurk wuz invented by Greeks.
It’s jist the sort o’ joke I’d eggspect
fr’m the steak-a-da-oyst mob.
* * * *
“Erua”: Surely “Jacques” (B. l/8/’2B) is
not correct in placing the poker hand of
four of a kind before a routine flush. As the
assessment of the value of the hands is
usually made strictly in accord with poker
statistics, the routine follows the royal rou-
tine, the four coming third. This would
HARRY WILLIAMS, who outplayed crack
Victorian golfers in winning the Com-
monwealth Golf Club’s gold medal.
He is only 13.
seem right, as in some years’ experience I
have struck only one routine (never a royal),
while I have held innumerable fours, once
holding this hand five times in the one even-
ing.
“Leone” : The rules to be observed are
seldom discussed before the commencement
of a poker game. Thanks mainly to that
great body of battlers and dead-game sports
the commercial travellers, they are pretty
definitely fixed. The only point to be de-
cided js the amount of the blind and the
limit, if any. The holder of a royal routine
flush does not bet, but is content with the
bonus (usually 10s. in a 2s. game), and
whatever the rest of liis misguided com-
panions may stake upon their hands, with
only “Look!” from him to encourage them.
* * $
“Pearliato”: If “Rewolf” (B. 18/7/’2S)
considers 39 ends a reeprd in a singles bowl-
ing match of 31 up, his experience must be
limited. Newspaper accounts of singles com-
petitions show that this number is often
attained and sometimes exceeded. And the
gentleman’s claim that the great majority
of points were gained one at a time will
not bear investigation. Allow the odd end
a score of 4; that leaves 38 ends for 54
points. These must have been scored in 16
twos and 22 singletons.
* * * *.
“Bumpk”: Melbourne alpineers don’t have
to forego practice for the Mount Buffalo
season because of the local lack of snow.
They use the slopes of Eaglemont, a steep
bluff near Heidelberg. At this time of the
year the. onion-grass—called nutweed in
N.S.W.—is long and greasy, and is a good
enough substitute for the real stuff. If the
ski-runners don’t exactly ■ hurtle down they
get all the exercise they want in climbing
up again.
* * * *
“Blade”: The N.S.W. Rowing Associa-
tion, at its annual meeting, instructed the
incoming committee to have next year’s
inter-State eight selected by the coach of the
State champion eight. Records of the
inter-State races held since 1912 show that
13 have been won by crews chosen by a
single selector —five were club crews—and
two by crews named by a committee. West-
ralia plumps for the single selector, and
its P. J. Ryan chose the Swan River men
who carried off the King’s Cup in 1925, 1927
and 1928 —the State was not a competitor
at Brisbane in 1926. The wisdom of select-
ing club crews when there are outstanding-
performers in the State events was evidenced
bv the deeds of Murray Bridge (S.A.).
Queensland’s fine showing at Penrith this
year was another example, and if the Mos-
man crew which walked off with the Chal-
lenge Eights at Henley-on-Yarra last year
had been entrusted with the task of repre-
senting N.S.W. at Penrith, the Ma State’s
showing in the King’s Cup race might not
have been so inglorious.
Inkpot and Palette.
THRILLS.
[For The Bulletin.]
There is a thrill in rosy lip 3,
Fplifted for a kiss;
Their cloying pressure on your own
Amounts to perfect bliss.
There is a thrill in amber ale
When old Sol rules the day,
And “What about another, mate?”
Turns saddest heart to gay.
greater thrill, it seems to me,
Than held in beer or bint,
YYhen after loads of “Ed's regrets ”
You see yourself in print.
VICTORIA. MINTIE.
Ad. in Townsville Daily Bulletin :
Wanted, North Ward, eingle room. Please do not
flf c to view room with another gent you’re sure
J a like. I won’t.
He knows, he knows!
“Doubleyouay” ; Among the 50-odd appli-
cants who responded to journalist Edward
A. Cooke’s advertisement for a companion
on his Cape to Cairo tramp were an unmar-
ried girl of 22 and a widow of 29. For
reasons of convention their applications
Were passed over. Cooke takes with him a
fellow Inky Wayfarer, Ronald A. Monson,
of the West Australian.
Boronia ’; Re Bulletin illustrations
being used for interior-decoration purposes.
Years ago, in the Warren country (W.A.),
I came across, an old hut the inside of which
was covered with pages from The Bulletin ;
but they were all pasted on upside down.
±he occupant, a lonely old recluse, explained
that these constituted liis literary reserves,
iseing upside down they were difficult to
read—a fact which prevented him from
drawing on them too rapidly. When he
had read one lot out, he explained, he pasted
up another.
“Kune”; The Auckland Herald i s the
first M.L. paper to use an aeroplane ex-
pressly to carry a reporter to and from his
story. When word was received that a
schooner had been wrecked with a total
loss of life on the Hokianga Bar —an
ls °i&t e d spot on the west coast of North
Auckland —it was found that expeditious
access by car or launch was out of the
question. So Auckland’s only aeroplane
owner and his Moth were chartered to take
a reporter to the scene. Less than six
hours after the ’plane left on its mission,
the Herald was developing pictures of the
wreck.
Interlude in Melbourne Art:—
Clarice Beckett’s interesting display of oils at
the AthenKum just shows what a sincere artist can
do without resort to too much gum-tree and sun.
Melbourne at the moment is enveloped in a soft
winter haze which makes even the new T. and G.
building look like a Taj Mahal erected to his defunct
wife by a Sultan of Kew. Miss Beckett specialises
in these effects with eminently satisfying results.
She makes a procession of “Motors Going Home”
after dark on the Ocean-road look like a lantern
festival in Japan. In “Sunset, Beaumaris,” the
luminary, heated by a heavy run, is sinking below
a sea on which the drip of water from the scull of
the solitary boatman can almost be heard. There
is drama in “The Danger Signal,” a simple picture
of a couple of rails disappearing under a dim bridge
from which a red light shines. Miss Beckett de-
lights in the pearly nuances of fog. If she has a
fault it is in her over-abundance of pink skies.
'H. Goode”: Well, here’s another use to
which the old pink cover has been put. We
were working up the Maravo Lagoon, Solo-
mons, in a small schooner, loaded to the
covering board with sago ivory. I was sit-
ting on deck aft of,the wheel, leaning on the
rail, which was open at this point, and read-
ing a three months old Bulletin. The usual
shark hook and tackle was there, coiled down
and ready for use. As we lopped along, just
carrying steerage, I heard a splash over
the stern and found that a large grey shark
was jumping half his length out of the
water in his efforts to have a bite at where
my singlet should have been, but wasn’t.
I ripped off the pink cover, crumpled it
into a ball, slipped it on the shark hook and
hove it overboard. The shark was hungry
and made for it with a rush, and I hauled
in sharply. He died fighting and measured
134 feet.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: A. 11. Davis (“Steele
Rudd ) has borrowed an idea from the Duke
of Plaza-loro ; he has floated himself into a
company. He is the chief shareholder in
himself, but the company is there to re-
lieve him of the worry of personally chasing
the profits of his plays. Incidentally, Davis,
now resident in Sydney, is physically quite
fit again. For a couple of years or more
in Brisbane and afterwards, he had a bad
spin. lie proposes to celebrate his recovery
by writing for The Bulletin “the best
work I’ve ever done —I’ve got it planned ”


fsd
Prohibition in New South
Wales would mean an annual
cost of over £8,000,000.
Loss of Federal
Revenue .... £4,592,812
Loss o f State
License Fees . 500,000
Annual Interest
Bill on Com-
pensation more
than 1,000,000
Annual cost of
attempted en-
forcement esti-
mated to be not
less than .... 2,000,000
Total £8,092,812
Plus the livelihood of over
30,000 workers with 90,000
dependants.
COMPENSATION.
Prohibitionists’ Estimate,
£20,000,000.
“Sydney Morning Herald’s”
Estimate, £27,000,000.
A YEAR
■
v.
\
UNDER PROHIBITION
INCREASED TAXATION IS INEVITABLE
This law which the Prohibitionists are advocating would cost £8,000,000 a
and would endanger the livelihood of 30,000 workers and their dependants.
It has been tried in the U.S.A., Canada, Finland, Norway, Sweden, Iceland, Russia
and Turkey. Seven of the nine provinces of Canada have repealed it. Norway
has repealed it; Sweden has repealed it; Iceland has repealed it; and so have
Russia and Turkey.
Why? Because it proved a failure and a tragedy.
In the two countries retaining the law—the United States and Finland it is
treated with contempt, flouted by all classes in the community, and supported
by bootleggers.
Instead of decreasing drunkenness, drunkenness has increased. The Police records
prove it. Instead of decreasing crime, crime has increased: and the greatest
Judges in the U.S.A. indict Prohibition as “the greatest contributing factor.”
Instead of protecting the rising generation it has surrounded youths and girls with
greater temptation than ever before. On the evidence of great temperance
workers like Miss Annie S. Swan, on the evidence of welfare workers and great
educationalists we have it that there has been a great increase in drinking
1 amongst the young of both sexes.
A
m
V
-w\\'
/m
S/
Prohibition has an ugly record
KEEP IT OUT OE NEW SOUTH WALES
'Ofr- fltoAcfctiori %kwak£,
QS^r
PutYourXinthe BOTTOM Square
The Liquor Trades Defence Union of N.S.W.


Under
Royal
Warrant
dfs
To H.M.
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE,
Chaiiesllpidsic*
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
To Mark Linen
fcASH’S NAMES are destinc(ive #
(yc? neat •* fadeless and durable)
Actual Stze.
Style No. 6
<£s
Prices: « 2 doz. 7/6, 6 doz. 6/-, 3 doz. 3/6
SOLD BY LEADING DRAPERS.
Write for Name Style Circular tc»
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St.,Richmond, Melbourne
CASHS names
9
litsns;
Washing RIBBONS
FOR L? NG ERIE.
•' AS NEW AFTER REPEATED WASHING"
śdf
Tv een/rw of Queens/onc/s
C_y gA "V' c/isLngu/sh&c/ Soc/o/ Life.
thmom
Motel
RDTQR
BRISBANE
Magnificent Ball*
, room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attacnea. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s. Brisbane
Telephone, Central o'Bo —lo Liner
Unexcelled for
Convenience
Main
Theatres
situated
nearby.
Right
opposite
Railway
Station.
\A \
Handy to
main
public
building's.
Conveni-
ently near
Shopping
Centres.
No hotel in Adelaide is so conveniently
located as The Grosvenor, Slid none
otters better service or greater comfort.
Tariff from £3 10/-.
Write for information booklet.
GROSVENOR
r c-Adelaides Finest Unlicensed JioteL
Opp Railway Stn. North Terrace. uHSwifl -Manaqer
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
LEATHERETTE
GLOVES
Surely the water-witcli of the world lives
in Sydney Harbor! She flutes out a few
blue notes, flutters a green-blue scarf, and
from every end of the earth the men of the
sea come to greet her. No sooner had the
smiling sailors of Japan steamed out of the
Hoads, following their Rising Sun, than the
flying boats from Southampton settled like
four monstrous Easter eggs on the waters
of Farm Cove. “When the pigs begin to
fly,” a small boy at Ivirribilli Point kept
on muttering the other day as the super-
marines darted and circled above the ferries;
and when the queer craft finally dropped
and waddled swiftly over the water, it did
seem as though we wei’e living in some mad
nursery-rhyme world.
Eight officers and twelve men occupied
snug little perches in the flying boats from
Southampton across and around three con-
tinents. Apparently the taller men crawl
about the inferiors on their tummies, for
they couldn’t stand up without cracking their
heads. If ever a super-marine is haunted
it’ll be by a decapitated ghost with his skull
tucked under his arm. Put into English,
Look-out-Brown-Look-out is the appropriate
name of the captain of the expedition. He’s
a level head with a nice smile—the leveller
the better for that architecture, no doubt he
thinks. These Jules Verne boats are made of
duraluminiurri, a metal that neither rust nor
moth can corrupt. Sounds as safe as the
Celestial vaults for the laying up of trea-
sure ; but can you believe all the advertise-
ments say?
A mountainous flight of jade-green steps
on which arc grouped guards in light jade-
green and silver; guards in lilac-blue and
gold ; violets, purple-blues, jade-greens; gold
of the poppy, bright coppery gold ; pink of
sea anemones; banners as. fluid as peacock
w aters; triangular banners as though blown
taut by a stiff wind; lanterns of rose, of
green, of gold ! At the crest of the jade-green
steps a princess in a swathe of gold green
tissue that flows suddenly from the waist
into a bewilderingly long train, to the tip
of which fall five ribbons of crystal, each
weighted by a tassel. These ribbons drip
their shimmering length from a towering
head-dress of ostrich plumes. At the foot
of the steps a lover pi’ince, a tiny figure
against the dazzling heights, till the music
of Puccini and inspiration make him fan-
tastically dwarf the piled-up splendors of
old Pekin. Rather like a scene in a super-
production of “Aladdin” is this scene of
“Turandot,” but glorified by the imagery of
the music in which throbs the sex duel of the
ages. Add a violet nightfall on the walls
of the Imperial city, an eye-blinking in-
terior of saffron yellow's, a sunrise of rose
flame; set, these about with red lacqxier;
wuth carvings of emerald frogs; with rubies,
emeralds, pearls; with stiff silks and em-
broidered red and blue di-agons—and it's
but a faint idea of the color and blaze that
burst on Her Majesty’s audience on Satur-
day night.
The Royal Art Society’s show drew over
3000 to the operiiug on Saturday at the
Education Galleries. Young artists were
there trying to look unconcerned when a
note of admiration was sounded before their
particular canvases. Dattilo Rubbo and J.
S. Watkins held court. Historical Societv
chiefs Aubrey Ilalloran and Hope Johnston
recast the period, standing before Ray Lind-
say’s picture of the surrender of Governor
Bligh—which Dame Nellie bought, by tlie
way. Young Fi-ank Lynch, whose woman
stands a tranced glory in bronze, was among
the warmly congratulated. John Banks and
his bride blushed to hear a girl exclaim over
his delicate glimpse of Rose Bay. “Hasn’t
that a honeymoon look!” The Maoriland
Bowrings, smiling Charlie Bryant and his
musician sister, Lister Lister, a picture of a
girl with red-gold hair which drew every
man in the room—all these helped Minister
for Education Drummond, who said the
official sesame.
On Thursday night there was a party
at Government House, to which the flying-
boat men were bidden. It was mostly films.
Wembley for the Governor —these pictures
came from E. J. Farrar, M.1..C., Minister
for Labor and Industry; and some magni-
ficent views of South Africa, Lady de Chair’s
native land —these for the vice-reine. Dal-
gety’s supplied them. It was rather a dull
party. About 60 in all.
Can you think what it means to read 542
novels, some of them running to over 100,000
words? Count up the books on your own
snelves, and then, if there are 500, think
of sitting down to go • conscientiously right
through the lot. And then think of making
a (“loser study of the most favored twenty and
a closer study still of the most favored
eight! That is the task which the judges in
The Bulletin's Prize Novel Competition
faced. First, as soon as entries started to
come in, Mr. Clegg began reading—that was
four months ago; and lit l has done nothing
but read ever since. In a week or two he
was joined by Mr. Heney; then Mr. Souter
came in; then Mr. Mann; then Mr. Mack-
aness. When the work seemed overwhelm-
ing they called in three assistants, whose
business was to read and report; only the
entries these pronounced quite hopeless were
eliminated. No entry, even a hopeless one,
was thrown out on less than two black
marks. So the work of winnowing went on.
At the moment the judges are considering
the last dozen. Within the next 10 days
they hope to have brought their list down
to three. On Aug. 22 the prize-winners
should be announced; on Aug. 29 the report
of the judges should be published; and on
Sept. 5 we shall begin to read the First-
Prize winner. And after that we shall
make preparations to compare the first
with the second and the third, which will
follow in order.
As dimpled and smiling as school girls
having a treat were the prima donnas of the
Italian Opera Company at the afternoon
party given for them by the Dante Alighieri
Society, and the male aviarians seemed just
as excited as the ladies. These stars do not
often have an hour off, for when they are
not shining they are busy polishing. So
they made the most of the rosy hour at
Romano’s, and no one seemed to shudder in
the grand-opera manner at the jazz pro-
gramme. Extraordinary Italian, English,
French and a sort of pidgin Esperanto were
the means of communication between their
Australian admirers and the songbirds, but
when Italian met Italian then the flood
gates flew open and a rush of compliments
stunned the air.
Donna Grossardi, wife of Italy’s Consul-
General, was the afternoon’s hostess, and
clutched a great bouquet of violets and mig-
nonette against her black and gold frocking
during the reception. Toti dal Monte came
in high-heeled Court shoes and pearl ear-
rings, a black musquash coat with an ermine
collar also helping to keep off the weather.
With her was her young man, and the two
drank in congratulations and admiration as
the flower inhales the dew. Handsome Lina
Scavizzi was still Tosea-like in her swathe
of black satin topped by a high-fitting hat
of vermilion; Giuseppina Zinetti, in a be-
furred cloak, looked entrancing—you’d never
suspect her of being the wicked genius of
Lohengrin. Black fur coats were worn by
almost every one of the women artists.
Arangi Lombai-di was wi-apped in one; so
was Mrs. Minghetti, who was there with
her husband, the dashing de Grieux of
“Manon.” The Civic Commissioner and his
lady and the French Consul-General Nette-
ment and his majlame were, among the
afternoon’s distinguished, and Mrs. Feri-ari
Passmore and Leila Coppola two of its most
vivid good-lookers.
This is a May Moore picture of Cecile
Adkins, the Sydney singing girl to whom
Mavrogrodato bequeathed his Con. pupils
when he went to London.. Cecile has just
returned from
a year’s study
in London,
Paris and Ger-
many. In Lon-
don, where she
stayed with
Dorothy Helm-
rich, her old
teacher Mavro
was again her
i n s t r u c t or.
Three Conti-
nental experts
in lieder and
oratorio helped
put a further
polish on the
cream- and-
honey notes.
The Wagnex*-
ian festival at
Salzburg had
her in its audi-
ence. And per-
haps she can claim to be the only Australian
who has met Anton, the potter who plays
Christ in the Passion Play at Oberammer-
gau.
The view from Rose Bay Golf Links is
full of beauty, even on a day spattered with
sleety rain. But it’s doubtful if any of the
women champs.,' ruthlessly sleuthing the
small white ball from shaven green to shaven
green the last ten days, drank in much of
the charm. Two well-contested rounds on
successive days last week resulted in Mrs.
A. Russell, of Victoria, carrying off the Rose
Bay Cup. This was a magnificent lone-hand
win, and the trophy, a very dazzling affair,
was duly presented to the smiling winner in
the golf house at the big tea-party staged
by Mrs. Nigel Smith at the end of the
second day’s round. The first tea-drinking
was hostessed by a group of the Rose Bay
associates, and another function that went
well was the dinner, a toothsome and well-
served meal, given at the golf house by the
Club' associates to the players, home-grown
and interstate, and to officials of the Golf
Union. This function was just as hilarious
and jocund as if the male of the species
had basked in the smiles.
"No money, no Congress,” said Father
Meaney, the presiding genius in Eucharistic
Congress affairs, the other day. Then lit*
a d d e d cm-'
pliati c a 11 y
“A n d n o
women, no
money!” The
jo 11 y-looking
girl in this
pict u r e is
Olive Malone,
and to her
talent for de-
tail much of
tli e smooth-
working of the
plans for the
Congress i s
due. It is her
job to keep in
touch with the
women’s com-
mittee work-
ing for the
Con gross in
every parish
in Australia.
The principal job of these busy hives has
been the raising of funds. This they have
done mainly by the sale of guinea badges—
and the sale started two years ago.
Besides raising funds, R.C. women will
take an active part in the Congress. Huge
canteens at the Showground and at St.
Mary’s are being placed under their care.
Companies of women doctors and nurses will
be stationed all along the route of the Pro-
cession of the Sacred Host which starts at
Manly, comes by stately, almost majestic,
convoy across the waters of Port Jackson
to the city’s front door, and then journeys
to the Cathedral, where day and night for
a week there will be a guard of honor—their
uniform* most of the time, no doubt, the
apparel of the weary and the poor; their
.swords a burning faith to stand between the
atheism of the world and the Presence they
revere. In this gigantic procession blaz-
ing with color, with the purple of the
Vatican, the embroidered and emblazoned
vestments of priests, the red soutanes and
white surplices of the acolytes, the sashes
and orders of church auxiliaries, but one
women’s society will take part. This is the
Children of Mary, the only feminine organi-
sation that has a uniform. It is a cloak of
the blue seen on the old Italian Madonnas,
worn with a white veil.
The Ambassadors was the Supreme iCourt
in its Jazz jurisdiction to which the Uni-
versity Law Society subpoenaed its brethren
and friends in its suit versus Dull Care.
Dull Care made no appearance, y’r Honor ;
and so heel and toe, toe and heel the busi-
ness started ex parte. Premier Bavin, who
is head of the society as well as of the State,
sat enthroned with his poetess wife, whose
green-and-silver frock suggested an ode to
Spring. The Chief Justice and his lady were
a reminder that by the Street called Straight
we come to the House Beautiful, the little
lady in mixed lace and lame the color of ripe
wheat. Professor Peden’s wife also favored
gold, but her georgettes were in flute-like
tones of primrose. New Justice Halse Rogers
and his twinkling-eyed wife were of the
night’s set-apart, as were the Attorney-General
Boyces and Frank Bayldon, who is president
of the Undergraduates’ Association. Vice-
president A. C. Elrington and secretary
C. A. 11. Dezarnaulds wore unimpeachable
raiment and the smile of satisfied achieve-
ment.
City Tatt.’s pulled off quite a win for the
Crown-street Hospital last week. The Moore
Park Palais was the course, and there was
a full field. Twenty fluttering white debs,
like crystal figurines bobbed to the Governor,
who came to the party under the wing of
daughter Elaine. Elaine, who flew her
pretty old-rose velvet, soft with layers of
tulle and silver lace, had with her Ann
Jamieson, of the delicate profile, and Shirley
Bavin. A group of Tattersall’s big chiefs
bade the vice res.’ welcome, among them
chairman James Clarke and his lady, the
Edward Johnstons, the Owen Maidments
and Walter Baker. Henry Braddon and
Brasch Macarthur, two of the knights of the
Crown-street institution, were honored
guests, along with the efficient secretary,
May Mitchell. Secretary R. Gillespie, of
Brisbane Tattersall’s Club, was another of
the revellers.
Just on £lOOO will go from the Journal-
ists’ Ball to the A.J.A. Benevolent Fund—
surely a record for a one-night effort, with
tickets at only 12s. 6d. each. The result,
of course, could not have been so glittersome
but for the generous spirit in which Mrs.
Maclurcan met the committee.
Taxi-drivers and barrow-men and the
road-menders sported a spray of wattle on
the first of August. Some tram-drivers
decorated the front of their chariots with
the golden fluff, and a young milk-seller wore'
a plume of it drooping over the side of his
battered hat. It had a grand-opera air, curious,
in the early morning light. Business men
wore it, young hundred-pcr-eent.-effieient
hustlers, and the rather tired-eyed ones
who have hustled and achieved and know
that all the success hasn’t brought them half
the pleasure of that August day long ago
when romance gripped them by the throat,
and with the scent of the wattle in their
nostrils they played the wag to go fishing
or just to tramp about the green juicy
places of the awakening earth. The flapper,
of course, wore a sprig on the lapel of her
coat —not only is wattle a national emblem,
it is jolly decorative, too.
Old friend W. 11. Horsfield, who for so
long brought a Pickwickian twinkle into the
labyrinthian gloom of the Town Hall, has
given up being Deputy-Assistant Town Clerk,
and gone as secretary to the National Asso-
ciation. The National Association will
henceforth be a place of light and cheerful-
ness and grace, and whenever it has a
party this Letter, if not invited to sail up
the front marble steps, will crawl in under
the canvas, for Mr. Horsfield had a way
of greeting the arrivals at a tea-drinking
in the Mayoress’s rooms that made them feel
like Queen Bess stepping on Raleigh’s cloak.
The Crown-street Hospital lost a good
friend last week when that eager worker,
Mrs. William Upton, died. She was a
generous giver—her gifts ran well past
£2OO0 —as well as an untiring member of
the linen auxiliary. One of the wards is
named after her.
The Girl in the Plat Opposite describes
“Tannhauser” :
At the end of the heavenly Overture, up goes the
curtain to show Venus’s flat. And here the lady,
in far too many clothes —positively eider-downish —
and Tannhauser, dressed for a Polar relief expedition,
have a musical argument about going back to his
home town. Venus doesn’t hold with the idea, and
she coaxes him to curl again into the cosy double-
bed shell—just as though the poor fellow were an
oyster.
But, high above all, Tannhauser hears the Pilgrims'
Chorus. This reminds him of the staple export
of his native State, which is pilgrims, and he decides
to go off to swap yarns with his old pals. Venus
finally hands him a vocal latch-key in case he
changes his mind and comes back to the shell.
Tannhauser soon finds himself in a valley, and
from a crag the Landgrave’s castle —the equivalent
of our Government House —frowns down at him.
Again the pilgrims make themselves heard while
bounding like chamois about the craggy peaks. Tann-
hauser is thinking he’ll take the trip with them,
when his old chum Wolfram, in hunting kit and
with some perfectly adorable dogs, one an English
setter, gives him the village chat, and tells him how
nice-looking Elizabeth has grown. So Tannhauser
goes with the dogs, and the rather moth-eaten
pilgrims go without him.
Up in the castle all is preparation for the local
Eisteddfod, Elizabeth, magnificent in red golds,
has quite a meeting with Tannhauser, who has on
even more clothes than he had in Venusberg. Then
the Landgrave, whose clothes look like a bankrupt
mayor’s, comes in and tells Elizabeth that Tann-
hauser is an entrant in the Eisteddfod, and that,
as he intends to award him first place, he’s going
to offer Elizabeth as the prize. Which shows that
even in those days singers didn’t always win on their
merits. Then the villagers begin to fill up the
hall, though how they ever footed it up the hill
with so many garments on remains a mystery.
A row of little stools each covered by a crimson
cloth remain vacant. Then in strides Elizabeth’s
handsome boy-friend Wolfram in gorgeous red and
gold. He sits on the top stool, other competitors
in between, and Tannhauser’s cobalt-blue cloak
streams over the end seat. One by one they sing, but
Tannhauser practically tells them to shut up and
dashes into praises of Venus and the Shell, with
various purple patches better left untold. Every-
body feels insulted, of course. The women are
shocked, and when they are sure there’s no more
to hear dash off with ingrowing shrieks. Elizabeth,
however, stands up for Tannhauser, who finally rushes
off with another batch of pilgrims—this lot are
setting off to visit the Pope.
But the Pope, probably bored by pilgrims who all
sing the same chorus, won’t interview Tannhauser,
but sends him a message to say that when the staff
that he, like the other pilgrims, carries shall burst
into bud, he will find “Welcome” written on the
Vatican’s doormat. So Tannhauser comes back, and
Wolfram, who has been having a little tryst with
Elizabeth and the evening star, is once more the
reception committee. Tannhauser, peeved that Arthur
Rickard and the Millions Club haven’t turned up
to greet him after his journey, decides to go back
to the double-bed shell. But Elizabeth, who has
gone home and died and now arrives on the scene
all ready to be buried, causes the tired-out man such
a shock that arterio-schlerosis finishes him off.
And just as he topples over, excited pilgrims arrive
carrying his staff all nicely in bloom. Which only
shows you again the cussedness of things.


SAVE. MONEY
by making your own
family remedy for —
COUGHS, COLDS,
Croup, Bronchitis, Influenza,
Sore Throats and Whooping Cough.
COSTS 2/- and SAVES £’s
To save much money by making your own family remedy
for chest and throat ailments, order from your chemist
or store a two-shilling bottle of concentrated HEENZO.
By adding the HEENZO to sweetened water you will
have a family supply EQUAL to eight ordinary-sized
bottles (about £l’s worth) of the best ready - made -up
cough and influenza remedies.
OF VITAL IMPORTANCE TO PARENTS
is the fact that HEENZO does NOT contain paregoric,
laudanum, opium, morphia, or any other poison. It is
absolutely pure, and can be given to even the youngest
baby without upsetting the digestion. HEENZO quickly
soothes sore throats, eases the chest, and banishes coughs
and colds.
ƒds
fsd
Miss GLADYS MONCRIEFF writes:—
“I have tried and proved the value of
HEENZO for preserving the voice and
overcoming the distressing effects of a cold.
HEENZO is a blessing to those who suffer
from chest and throat ailments.”
'HEENZO
should be used in every home.
When your Doctor says
“You need a good TONIC” take
HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS
Your doctor will tell you that the combination of calcium,
glycerophosphates, carbonate of iron, capsicin and extract of
cascara sagrada makes an excellent nerve food and TONIC for
restoring the health of people who are run down, nervy, neurotic
or ansemic. We make this compound under the name of HEAN’S
TONIC NERVE NUTS. You are assured of its excellence, for
tbe good name of HEENZO is behind the claim that “ftioney
cannot buy a better tonic” for restoring good health. Your belt
investment for regaining health is a few boxes of HEAN’S
TONIC NERVE NUTS at the cost of 3/- per box.
The Greatest of all Tonics for Banishing
NERVES, NEURITIS, INSOMNIA,
FATIGUE, AND NERVOUS BREAKDOWN.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Hui'iiiary, Live s>iock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
THE REGENT
Australia’s Most Luxurious Theatre.
(Direction Hoyt’s Theatres, Ltd.)
The Home of
the Superior Motion Picture
and the Effective Presentation.
“THE GARDEN OF ALLAH,” with Alice Terry and Ivan Petrovitch.
GET THE NEWS OF ALL AUSTRALIA
FOR
Your Week-end Reading.
BUY THE NATIONAL WEEKLY WITH THE NATION’S NEWS.
In Current Events and Literature. In the Home and Social Life.
In Sport and Agriculture. In Picture and Story.
‘THE: AUSTRALASIAN”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at—
-113 Pitt Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The weather at the Steeplechase meeting
of the V.A.T.C. on Saturday admirably
reflected the gloom that filled the hearts of
punters as favorite after favorite was de-
feated. A big crowd passed through the
new entx*ances and fouxxd other improve-
ments to comment upon, but it wasn’t a
day to inspire much enthusiasm about any-
thing. Skies were grey, and now and then
there was a drizzle of rain. Feminine
dressing rang no changes on that of half
a dozen other meetings in the last few weeks.
Fur coats and wraps and the close-fitting felt
hat are the safest bets ixx a winter like this
for matron and maid. However, ■it wasn’t
raining all the time,-,and some of tlxe younger
folk had a chance tfl show a dash of style. Jean
Russell gave the lawn a glimpse of a sports
suit the jumper section of wliicli was light
grey with darker bands that matched the
pleated skirt. Her mother, Mrs. George
Blackwood, was wrapped in a kolinsky fur
coat, companioned by a navy-blue felt hat.
The Irvine lady wore a fur coat and a
black hat. Mrs. Big-Brother Linton, just
back from her trip to England, sported an
up-to-the-minute coat of gazelle, with a
small black hat. Mrs. T. G. White was a
study in soft gi'ey in frock and millinery,
worn with a coat of beaver fur. Mrs.
Charlie Lyon looked smart in a turnout of
navy-blue and white. Mrs. Percy Chirnside,
Mrs Alistcr Clark, Mr. and Mrs. Robert
Knox, Mr. and Mrs. James Purves with
daughter Valerie, cheerful in bright navy
coat and millinery, promenaded in the pad-
dock between races.
The Melbourne Hunt Clxxb’s annual meet-
ing opened the new racing season at Moonee
Valley, and there was a fair-sized crowd to
usher in the new lease. Followers of the
hounds were chiefly interested in the Hunt
Club Steeplechase, won by Mac Moylan, a
rank outsider. Ray Webster, the owixer, oxx
collecting the cup from A. T. Creswick,
M.F.IL, received many congratulations; and
H. Swift, who rode the horse bo victory,
was presented with a tiepin and given a
great deal of praise. The day was pleasant,
with bright sunshiixe; and though favorites
were not ofteix first home the afternoon was
not too disastrous for punters. Mrs. Harry
Ci’eswick, who was accompanied by a party
of guests, was smartly clad in a well-tailoi-ed
suit of eocoa-hued tweed, with felt hat to
match. Mrs. F. Grimwade, the Harold New-
bigin couple, Mrs. J. B. McArthur, Hazel
Martin, Mrs. Enabling and daughter Lorna
and Mrs. Colin Martin, from the Apple
Isle, were othei-s who assisted to usher in
the new racing season.
Many folk of the sporting world sup-
ported the gay show at the Oriental on
Thursday night, engineered by the Grosvenor
and East Melboxmie auxiliaries of St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital. The evening was passed
with bridge, dancing and cabaret turns given
by principals from the J.C.W. theatres and
leading amateurs. Mrs. Thomson, president
of the Grosvenor, whose husband, a well-
known legal light, is a committee-member of
Moonee Valley Club, looked charming with
trailing black tulle draperies; and Mrs.
Cooper, whose life-partner is a member of
the V.A.T.C. committee, topped a black
gown with a black satin bi’idge coat hand-
somely embroidered. These two ladies guided
the arrangements, while giving assistance
with sales of cigarettes, sweets, fancy articles
and raffles were maixy of the ever-willing,
including Mrs. McCallum Neil, Mrs. W. J.
Wearnc, Mrs. Marriott, Mrs. Gerald Vaix-
heerns and Mrs. Neil Lawrance. Mrs. George
Bowcher, hon. organising sec. of the central
auxiliary, flitted about in cornflower-blue
helping to keep things moving smoothly,
aided by Mrs. J. W. Perrin. Among the
onlookers were the Cussen lady and Miss
Moore, Rear-Admiral and Mrs. Napier, she
in sparkling pink, Mrs. I. 11. Moss, the
Claude Matthews, and Dr. and Mrs. Guthrie
Plante. Mrs. A. V. Kewxxey, the Tabarts,
Ihe Pulteney Mein couple, the Wallace Mit-
chells —lie was commandeered to run a choco-
late-wheel —Mrs. J, B. McArthur and Teckie
Fenner were among members of the sport-
ing contingent present.
The mummers made their appearance
shortly after eleven o’clock. Irene Homer's
piquant face and smooth shingle arose like
a flower from a taffeta frock of two shades
of green, with lengthy leaf-like flounces:
Annie Croft smiled above coral-pinlc that
had a slight sprinkling of glitter. Frank
Talbot marshalled some of liis “New
Brooms.” Leona Hogarth, her husband,
Leonard Doyle, and Eve Dawn ay, the last-
named clad in black. Billy Lockwood was
dashing in pale green. Mona Barlee, now
Sirs. Bob Rayson, also favored green
of the lily-of-the valley tint. Mrs. John
Goodall, who brought with her a beautiful
voice and a fetching smile, was another who
favored the verdant hue.
The younger set, to whom Kathleen
Rogers Thomson, a wee maid in scarlet,
played hostess, had a dance of their own
below stairs in the cafe. Dance artists and
the three or four bevies of ballerinas oblig-
ingly repeated their turns there, saving a
lot of crushing and confusion. The dressing
was charming. Beverly Marshall suggested
an animated lamp-shade with many pointed
pink-petalled frills attached to a bodice of
pink velvet; Marie Watson was surrounded
with spotted net flounces of nymph-green
tone; and Sadie Rees had white roses poised
on a fluffy green fnoek. Gold lace and tissue,
with a stray glistening beaded red poppy,
was chosen by Viva Dickens; rhinestones
twinkled upon Carmyle Starr’s sapphire-blue
frock ; Eileen Connolly featured pink petals,
and Valei-ie Hennessy’s black flounces were
linked to a top of soft pink sprinkled with
crystal. Katli Thomson and five other nice
girls in frilled ballet skirts of gold and silver
gracefully tripped, and Mrs. J. Goodall
sang “High, High Over the Hills.” lixter-
State visitors included James Brennan, of
Westralia, and his daughters Mollie aixd
Norma.
Though the temperature at nights of late
has been rigorous enough to make home fire-
sides popular, a fair percentage of members
was drawn to the Victoria Golf Club’s hop
at. the Cheltenham links last week. The
fine building was bright and cosy, with a
blaze of lights, some in gaily-colored Jap
anese lanterns and crackling log-fires. The
ballroom was banked with artificial pink
roses, wistaria and native pink heath. Very
few distinctive gowns were on view, the
only new developments that met this Chat-
terer’s eye being the inci-easing use of sprays
of flowers, both real and ax-tificial, and the
return to favor of feather trimming. Mrs.
Harold Gardiner wore a white robe top-
dressed with gold and silver sequins, and
Mrs. If. Mackennal dangled fi-inge from a
gown of petunia toning. The E. W. Cox
couple, the Ray Buxtons and Mr. and Mrs.
L. 11. Horsfall were dancers.
Ministering angels of St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital held their annual dance at the Brenan
Hall of the hospital last week, when uni-
forms were cast aside in favor of the prettiest
of evening frocks. Agnes McLean, president
of the committee of nurses that had chai’ge of
the dance, was in a gown of deep amber tones
blended with gold lace, arid hon.-sec. Dorothy
McDonald favored tangerine taffeta. Hilda
McGrath, in black lace, held the purse.
Amongst medical folk who joined in the jazz
were the Flynns, O’Days and Scanlons.
This dark-eyed lass, pictured by Stuart
Tompkins, is Lillie Willaton, who hails
from Bendigo. She is trie possessor of an
exceptionally fine soprano voice, and her
friends predict
for her a
great profes-
sional future.
The young
student springs
from artistic
stock. Her
father’s fam-
ily is intensely
musical, and
her mother
(Lillie Jen-
kins ) was one
of tlxe Golden
City’s most
prized singers.
Miss Willaton,
who easily ran
off with Mar-
ian Evans’s
Scholarship, is
studying hard,
and is in no
hurry to em-
bark upon a concert career. The many
tempting offers that have resulted from, a
few public appearances have been declined,
and until she is satisfied that she has leanxed
to make the very best use of her gift she
intends to remain a student. Unlike her
mother, who gave up dreams of vocal fame in
favor of matrimony, Miss Willaton says that
nothing will be permitted to , set aside hex-
ambition, But don’t we all?
The white, scarlet and gold iof Sacre
Coeur College wore featured in the decora-
tive scheme at No. 9 one night last week,
when tlxe yeai-ly reunion of ex-students took
place. Madge Breheny, the president of the
Old Girls’ Association, wearing a blue frock
with a glint of crystal, smiled upon the
officially invited, and secretarial chores were
shared by Sylvia Lane, whose black gown
had glimpses of ecru lace and wallflower
tones of embroidery, and Carmen Winter,
who had a scatter of crystal and coral beads
upon her white frock. Mrs. Keating and
her daughter Tulla and the T. C. Brennans
were among the guests.
Nearly 200 dancers were at the hop
at Bibron’s on Thursday night to help
pay the expeixses of Kathleen McCubbin’s
candidature in the Princess of Music page-
ant. Mrs. Ed. Dyson, in a simple frock of
black georgette, and her sister, Mrs. Russell
Jackson, also in black, were the organisers.
Miss McCubbin had a sash of gold tissue
about a frock of pink floral-patterned georg-
ette, and her sister Sheila wore henna-toned
taffeta. Artist Louis McCubbin and other
members of the family wex-e there. Nan Mc-
Clelland, with gold beads scintillating upon
a bois-de-rose frock, Harry McClelland and
Harold Hei-bert helped to represent the brush-
and-palette brigade. Mr. and Mrs. Arthur
Boyes; Mrs. Richard Fiteher, wearing rai-
ment combining flesh pink and black georg-
ette; Mrs. Douglas Hamilton, of Singa-
pore, in a sheath of silver tissue; Esther
Levy, Dr. and Mrs. Maurice MneGillicnddy
and Dr. and Mrs. C. N. Finn were among
the dancers.
As a Convenience to visitors and also to
the staff of St. Vincent’s Hospital, a shop
has been opened in the institution stocked
with wares of
the kind usu-
ally taken to
patients o n
visiting days.
The South
Yarra Branch
of the hospi-
tal’s Red Cross
Auxiliary pro-
vides the wares
and the sales-
ladies, and the
proceeds g o
into the liospi-
ta 1 coffers.
Lafayette has
pictured here
the president
of this body
o f workers,
Mrs. W. R.
Napier, wife
of Rear-
Admiral
Napier. Though she has not been very long
in Australia, she is already recognised as
one of the most valued supporters of charity
movements.
There is a rush among the local munici-
palities to tender return balls to their respec-
tive inayoi-s, and to present mementoes of civic
stewardship—the elections are coming round.
Mayor Wilmot, of Malvern, and his Mayoress
were entertained on Thursday. The Mayor-
ess, who looked well in glittering black, re-
ceived a gold-mounted bag and a diamond
ring, sharing with her husband the joy of
possession of a grandfather’s clock. For the
Mayor’s own use a silver cigai’otte-box bear-
ing the civic coat of arms was handed Over.
A photograph of the season’s debs, was in-
cluded in the array of gifts.
One of the many charitable enterprises of
last week was a bridge party in aid of the
Austin Hospital. The directors of the Lon-
don Stores lent their fine tearoom and sup-
plied the half-time refreshments. Mrs. A.
Couchman and Mrs. J. H. Hewison, who
were at the helm, had several keen assist-
ant workers who pressed players to pur-
chase cigarettes, flowers, sweets and other
knick-knacks to stretch the proceeds. The
Fraser lady, long a tower of strength to the
Austin, Mrs. Henrietta Walker, the Leslie
Jenner couple, Mrs. PI. H. Olney and others
connected with the hospital's auxiliaries were
amongst those who extended willing hands.
The Merson Coopers’ flat at Cliveden
Mansions was crowded with bridge players
one afternoon last week, the object being to
clear the expenses of the big entexffainment at
the Oriental for St. Vincent’s Hospital to-
morrow night. In between rubbers music
was provided by songbirds Mrs. Jack Goodall
and Mollie Warden and pianist Leonie Miller.
Mrs. T. J. Power read the future in teacups
for a consideration, and Katli Rogers Thom-
son sold .sweets. Mrs. Cooper, who wore a
cigar-brown chenille-embossed gown with a
brovyn hat, and Mrs. W. Rogers Thomson,
wearing black satin and corresponding mil-
linery, supervised the gathering, aided by
Mrs. George Bowchcr and Mrs. J. Perrin.
Members of the Victoria league poured
tea at their club last week to welcome home
two of their keenest workers, Elsa Grice and
Ellison 8 powers. Mrs. Henry Cave, the
senior vice-president, tendered greetings and
flowers to the returned travellers, who had
journeyed to England by way of the Orient.
Miss Grice, a daughter of the handled John
and his lady, had a glimpse of Canada to
boot. Her particular interest in the league
is the forming of women’s institutes in
country centres, and she will resume this
work. Miss Spowers, whose duties as hon.
gen. sec. were carried out during her absence
by Mrs. Stanley Addison, will once more
carry on.
White organdi-muslin frocks embroidered
with colored wools were novelties introduced
by Sheila Macdonald's maids at her wedding
in London with Harold Combe, of the
Queen’s Royal Regiment. Her parents, the
Claud Macdonalds, now living at Lancaster
Gate, were once frequent visitors, but their
only remaining interest in their homeland is
Wantabadgery. The bride’s sisters Ailsa
and Margaret were in the train of brides-
maids, and every Australian of note in
London swelled the gathering. Rupert
Clarke’s widow, Lady Grey Egerton, his
former wife; Mrs. Russell Clarke and the
Lindsays made a happy family party after
the ceremony.
Mona Barlee, of the slick, dark, shingled
coiffure, who graduated from the ranks of
the J.C.W. chorus to leading parts, took a
new role last week, when she became Mrs.
Charles Harold Rayson. Some months ago
she retired from the footlights to gather up
her trousseau. The wedding was celebrated
at All Saints’ Church, St. Kilda, the bride
dressing the part in French-blue with silver
fox fur and harmonising felt hat.
About GO members iof the E.S.U. stepped
aboard railway ’buses one afternoon last
week in pouring rain and chilly atmosphere,
and hied them to the Ford Works at Geelong
to see how Lizzie’s aristocratic, successor is
put together. Seen from the road the works
appear as two huge red and white buildings
with innumerable windows. Closer inspec-
tion reveals a couple of lesser buildings-;
and fronting the bay the firm’s own wharf.
When it was decided to manufacture the
bodies of the famous cars here, 18 experts
were sent from Amex-ica to train Australians
in the art. So readily has their knowledge
been digested that half of the instructors
have been able to return home,_ and 1000
Australians are now employed in the in-
dustry. Fifty cars a day can be turned
out, of which this State’s quota, is 15.. There
are about 2000 orders on the waiting list, ami
it is hoped to considerably! increase the
output in the near future. Appallingly noisy
machinery turns, twists and punches sheets
and rods of metal into correct shapes and
assembles theta. Paint is sprayed on with
a hose. Men do all the mechanical work
and also the upholstery; the only girfe
employed about the place are in the office.
After seeing all there was to be seen at
the factory, the party went to the A.B.L.
tearooms at Geelong for a cheering brew.
“An Enemy <of the People,” which had its
premiere at the Playhouse last week under
Repertory auspices as a celebration of Ibsen r s
centenary, had a flattering reception. Those
who Jbraved a particularly cold evening to
worship at Henrik’s shrine included Lieut.-
Col. and Mrs. T. W. White, Mrs. Alfred
Deakin, Mrs. H. L. Wilkinson, Anna Brennan
and the Helton Daniell couple. The play is
cast in the days of horsehair-covered chairs
and i sofas, crochet antimacassars and kero-
sene-lamps. Feminine finery was a matter
of blouses, skirts, dolmans, straw sailor-
hats and Kathleen Salter, as the
wife of Dr. Stockmann, wore the modest rai-
ment of a matron of the period, and Sylvia
Archer, who was Petra Stockmann, sported
the simple coat and skirt and millinery which
allowed a young girl characteristics of dress
not copied by her mother. Producer Frank
D. Clewlow gave further proof of his abili-
ties in the short season.
Dr. R. G. McPhee and his wife, after
enjoying the scenery of Wales and visiting
relatives, have been smitten with a desire to
be on the spot when the big Rotai'y congress
gets going at Tokio, so this month will see
them speeding through Canada in that direc-
tion. After sampling life in the East a
move will be made towards home, which
means Geelong.
Having exhausted the possibilities of
sport in most of the world’s uncivilised
spots, William Frikberg has come to see
what Australia can offer. For almost 40
years he has hunted big game through Central
Africa, the Congo States and other savage
regions, and every known species has fallen
to his gun. His home has been pitched in
Rhodesia, but the hunter has heard such
tales of Australia that he has come to look
over the continent with a view to settle-
ment.
Mrs. Dermot Gale, an American, who
married the second son of the late Walter
Gale, for many years clerk of the House of
Representatives, lias been engaged by Hoyt’s
Company in Melbourne to decorate the in-
terior of their new Regent Theatre in
Gollins-street.
The Arts and Crafts Society’s competitive
exhibition of handiwork of students from
primary, secondary and technical schools
proved a very successful innovation. Though
enti'ies were not as numerous as was hoped,
there was sufficient response to make a good
showing. Swinburne, M.L.C., whose name
is given to one of our most prominent tech-
nical colleges, made an approving opening
speech. The, biggest sprinkling of prizes went
to the P.L.C., St. Catherine’s, Brighton and
Box Hill Techs., and St. Andrew’s. The
Emily McPherson Domestic Science College
was represented by some attractive lingerie,
finely embroidered.


A. SAUNDERS’
EXCLUSIVE JEWELLERY.
sdf
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set 18et. White or
Yellow Gold Ring,
£l5
i© —@ ®
A. SAUNDERS’ Three Diamonds, Octagon
shaped, Platinum, 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch,
£7/10/-
Larger Diamonds,
£lO.
dfs
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamond Button
Cluster, set Plati-
num, 18et. Gold
Ring,
£25.
dfs
A. SAUNDERS’ Ifict. Gold
Links, set Fine Diamond,
£3/10/-
Larger Diamond,
£4/10/-, £5.
śdf
A. SAUNDERS' Gent.’s
9ct. Gold Shield Ring,
25/-
15ct. Gold,
40/-
18ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
.
SAUNDERS’ 9ct. Gol.l
Kinks, 25/-
Heavier, £2.
sdf
A. SAUNDERS’ Four
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-set,
18ct. White or Yellow
Gold Ring,
£l5.
sag
■ A Kn
mm
A. SAUNDERS’ Gent.’s Gold-filled Hunt-
ing Keyless .Imperial Lever, 10 years’
Guarantee case,
£2/10/-
Higher Grades £3, £3/10/-
20-year Case . £5
25-year Case £6/10/-
9ct. Solid Gold £B/10/-, £lO
sfd
A. SAUNDERS’ Five
Diamonds, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-set
18ct. White or Yellow
Gold Ring,
£20.
sdf
A. SAUNDERS’
Wedding Ring, 18ct.
White Gold, Chased
Design,
30/-
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
mm
A. SAUNDERS’ Three
Diamonds, Hexagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. White or
Yellow Gold Ring,
£lO.
WRITE FOR
CATALOGUE
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker —Jeweller—Optician,
80S-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
(feat Austral No. 5 Art lutun
(By Permission of the Attorney-General, N.S.W.
FOR THE
LIMBE
PROVIDENT
FUND
3
FIRST PRIZES
1 HUDSON COACH j£499
Z „ „ *499
3 „ „ *499
and 131 other Valuable Articles from £275 to £5
including Player Piano and Lines Chest
BUY ONLY THE PURPLE TICKET-ACCEPT NO OTHER
Trusted by the people and with a reputation gained by the conduct of
our last four Art Unions, which paid full prize money and were drawn
to time, the Limbless Soldiers will again keep faith.
The proceeds are in aid of the Provident Fund of the Limbless
Soldiers’ Association, and are invested at interest by Trustees to
provide for the old age of limbless returned men
TICKETS 1/- Xn
6 TICKETS 6/- POST FREE
0. BEYERS, Hon. Secretary, 19 Bligh Street, Sydney
WestcloiC
Bis Ben Deluxe
\ 2 '/-
0
in w §
S 3
OTxl
Ben Hur
Baby Ben Deluxe
America
Luminous
12 /6
They keep you on Schedule
WITH a Westclox alarm in the home, you can
be sure of your morning call and your
prompt reminders for everything you have to do.
The handsome new de luxe models will appeal to
you. They are designed on an entirely new
principle. The clocks stand film and solid, which
adds to their long life. Underneath there’s felt
cushioning for protection.
There’s a range of Westclox to select from—some
with plain dials, others with luminous dials that
can be seen in the dark. Prices from 8/6 to 28/6.
Built by the makers of Big Ben and other IVestclox
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
BROWN & DUREAU LTD., Distributors for Australia
MELBOURNE • SYDNEY - PERTH - BRISBANE
13
JOHN JAMESON
■ ★★ ★
WHISKEY
UWW f*.
6L 4
■ lalhjJifr
ALL JOHN JAMESON'S
Dublin Whiskey is made
from the finest procurable
malt and barley, and dis-
tilled by the same ex-
pensive process that the
Jamesons used in 1780.
This is the secret of its
wonderful smoothness and
ripe, rich distinctive
flavour. Drink it slowly,
and taste it carefully l
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
B. SEPPELT & SONS, LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
PERKINS & CO., LTD., BRISBANE, Q.
MILNE & CO., PERTH, W.A.


Nursery Rhymes revised by REX. —No. 3
Little Jack Homer
Sat in ,the corner,
His hands on his fat, chubby kneet*
He sent forth a roar—
“ Of plums I’ll no more,
Give me biscuits and REX Luncheon
Cheese 1 ”
k
You, too, will like its piquant
flavour and creamy deliciousness.
You can spread REX Luncheon Cheese
quicklv and easily on bread or biscuits
everybody loves its delicious piquant flavour
and it is very nutritious.
Eat a little with every meal REX
Luncheon Cheese and crackers.
Use it for sandwiches, in savouries, and on
fingers of toast. Spread it on crackers
which you then heat in the oven or under
the toaster.
* . r '
REX Luncheon Cheese is an aid to
digestion, its food value is great, its flavour
delicious. The reason ? we use only
full-cream cheese at the exactly correct
stage of perfect maturity.
In 4oz. and 2oz. tins and in opal porcelain jars.
REX
Luncheon Cheese
r
; « .wteHfcO^
lit Jones
Rees
Another REX Sandwich Delicacy
REX Salmonelle
A delicious fish paste in dainty
glass jars.
sdf
Foggitt Jones Limited
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon.


Amusements.
£MP I R E THEATRE,
Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Thursdays & Saturdays, 2.15.
COMMENCING FRIDAY, AUGUST 10.
THE BIGGEST PICTURE OF THE YEAR.
MOTHER MACHREE.
Together with New York’s newest Musical Comedy,
MODELS.
Week Nights: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6, 7/6. Sat. Nights: 3/3,
5/6, 8/6. Matinees: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6. Children: 1/-,
1/6, 2/6. Reserves: Theatre, MAIOOO, and all city
Booking Offices.
CJYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: GRAND OPERA.
ROYAL: THE SILENT HOUSE.
CRITERION: SEXES AND SEVENS.
PALACE:
JVIR. WHAT’S-HIS-NAME.
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-
WATTS in Plays of SHAKSPEARE.
SUBURBAN TOUR: Ryde Town Hall, Aug. 10;
North Sydney Manresa Hall, Aug. 11 to 17;
Mospian 'Town Hall, Aug. 18 to 25.
Sydney Rep.: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229, Sydney.
’Phone: MA1277.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S : HIT THE DECK.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE PATSY.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE.
THE HIGH ROAD.
ING ’ S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
William Anderson presents the Australian Comedy,
THE RUDD FAMILY.
ATHENAEUM THEATRE,
** MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
Evenings at 8.15. Matinees Wed. and Sat., at 2.30.
E. J. CARROLL presents, by arrangement with
Richard White and Eric Edgley,
THE HILARIOUS COMEDY,
NEW BROOMS.
With LEONA HOGARTH, WYRLEY BIRCH and
LEONARD DOYLE.
LJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
n MELBOURNE.
JOHN GILBERT and GR'ETA GARBO
in
FLESH AND THE DEVIL.
jyjAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE COLLEGE WIDOW.
DOLORES COSTELLO and WILLIAM COLLIER, Jun.
A MASTER PICTURE.
Box Plan at Allans’ & Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790.
Missing Friends.
■yY/ILLIAM PELCHEN, formerly of Ham-
** ilton, Victoria, farmer. —Will the above-
named or any person knowing his where-
abouts or able to give any information re-
garding him please communicate with his
brother Harry Pelchen, Hamilton, Victoria,
when the said William Pelchen will hear of
matters to his advantage. He was last heard
of in Sydney, New South Wales, in 1920.
DOBERT SUTHERLAND (also known as
Robert Johnston), last heard of in
Sydney, N.S.W., is requested to communicate
with the undersigned, and he will hear some-
thing to his advantage. J. GREGG, Solici-
tor, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EXCLUSIVE GEMS
OF RARE DISTINCTION.
UNIQUE PLATINUM SETTINGS.
PERCY MARKS,
Vice-Regal Jeweller and Lamdary,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Featuring Engagement Rings.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think op
SCHUTE,
BELL&CIm
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
sdf
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE •7**t ••' • . 3d.
Contains everything ® woman needs to know.
SHOOTERS’
SPECIALS at
. %
m
r ■ i
A ■
Mick sfiMMONi
mm 4? mm mm
j vmkww&fM ■iftfe, —t
High-Grade
GUNS and RIFLES
Marked down to ridiculous
prices !
Continental Combined Gun and
Rifle, 12 gauge, 32
calibre. Usually naxitrtlC
£l4/14/-. Sale Price XIU/lifO
Stevens’ D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 gauge,
30in. barrels. Usually pjlfAi
£3/15/-. Sale Price x4JI LJ m
Marsons’ “The King” D.8.8.L. Gun,
12 gauge, 30in. barrels, pjy
Usually £9/10/-. Sale Price XI
Marson Hammerless Gun, 12 gauge.
Usually £1 6/1 6/-. PIT 1C I
Sale Price Xld(D/-
American Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
16 gauge. Usually PC/17C
£7/12/6. Sale Price XD/lijO
Darlow D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 gauge.
Usually £9/1 7/6. £7JlQ|£
Sale Price Xl|lo|o
Continental S.B. Muzzle - Loading
Gun. Usually 32/6. Q9/£
Sale Price ......... fafa/v
(Carriage Extra.)
Continental D.B. Muzzle-Loading
Gun. Usually 55/- 771 C
Sale Price
(Carriage Extra.)
Winchester Musket Rifle, 22 calibre.
Usually £5/5/-. ra|
Sale Price 3U|“
Winchester 5.8.8. L. Gun, 410
gauge. Usually P 7 Ul\l
£4/12/6. Sale Price Xd/1 U|"
Winchester 5.8.8. L. Gun, 20
gauge. Usually P7lU\l
£4/4/-. Sale Price
sa
Drastic Reductions in High-Grade
CRICKET
MATERIAL
SHAW & SHREWSBURY’S
FAMOUS BATS
Club. Usually 30/- /fi
Sale Price 23'U
Union or Empire. Usually
32/6. Sale Price 22/b
Autograph. Usually 45/-
Sale Price 35/-
County Single Rubber.
Usually 32/6. Sale Price 25/6
County Double Rubber.
Usually 37/6. Sale Price 29/b
County Treble Rubber.
Usually 40/-. Sale Price 32/-
No Cash Orders Accepted for
Cricket Sale Specials.
(Carriage Paid on All Goods except where
specified otherwise.)
Mick Simmons, Ltd.
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, Sydney.
“Australia’s Largest Sports Outfitters.
The Little Sisters
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Sir John Goodwin opened the exhibition
of Lionel Lindsay’s pictures, and Premier
McCormack and Randolph Bedford were on
hand to give the show their blessing. Others
in the throng were the T. J. Couplands,
Colonel and Mrs. Moore, the Philp lady,
Dr. Lockhart Gibson and Gwendolyn Grant
(who has recently had a show herself, in
the Lyceum Club). Several people from the
country, down for the agricultural show, were
there by invitation, and were delighted with
the bush scenes.
This bonny
face, pictured
by a Poulsen
camera, be-
longs to Valda
Rutlinin g,
whose dad is
one of our
leading legal
lights and a
director of the
Courier. She
is a very popu-
lar member of
our younger
set and has
lately been
receiving hosts
of congratula-
tions upon her
e n g a g ement.
The fortunate
young man is
Leslie John-
son.
Lady Goodwin, in a tailor-made of grey
tweed and necklet of stonemarten fur, atten-
ded the afternoon sliivoo at the Women’s
College. Miss Hine-Haycoek, in duck-egg
crepe de Chine over black, was with her,
and Mrs. T. J. Ryan, in platinum-grey silk
repp with grey felt hat and Arctic-fox furs,
said words of welcome. College students
made a guard of honor, and tea was served
under the jacaranda-trees on the lawn.
Thelma Nisbet, the senior student, handed
Lady Goodwin a bouquet tied with chocolate-
and-gold ribbons. Martha Burns _ spoke,
thanking Lady Goodwin for her visit, and
Freda Bage lifted her pretty voice in
a brief speech. Mrs. Ryan also welcomed
Mrs. L. O. Lukin and Mrs. Edward Bage,
visitors from Melbourne. Mayoress Jolly,
Mrs. Sligo, Mrs. Parnell, Mrs. Richards,
General Foott and Padre George Macdonald
were amongst those who clinked teaspoons.
Edith Dorothy, who is known as Trixie,
eldest daughter of the T. A. Richardsons of
Blackall, has promised her hand and heart
to Allan, younger son of the late Mr. and
Mrs. J. Melville Lilbourne, of Malvern, MeL
bourne.
Despite the cold nights, about the win-
triest Brisbane has experienced, Muriel
Starr gets good houses for the sensational
drama “Cornered.” In the cast is Ellis Irv-
ing, who was here with Allan Wilkie a year
or so ago and made himself popular. Nellie
Bramley has made a great hit with “My Old
Dutch.” Brisbane takes kindly to coster
plays, and the audiences, even before the
influx of Show-time visitors, have been over-
flowing.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The School of Arts and Crafts gave a
futurist masked ball at the Masonic Hall.
The decorations were exceptionally clever,
being futurist posters in most vivid coloring,
while among the pot plants peered weird
mask faces. A young cousin of artist
Magraith was responsible for several of the
posters. Some of the costumes were parti-
cularly startling. An effort was made to get
the dancers to retain their masks until
supper, but comfort was preferred to
mystery.
The Square Club held its annual ball
at the Palais Royal, and the attendance
was very large. During an interval the
appearance of a small boy on a goat which
cantered round the dance space caused much
amusement among the guests. G. E. Lane
is president of the club, and H. Lawrence
Scott flourishes the quill. The frocking was
smart.
The University Women’s Hockey Club
had its annual dance in the Elder Hall,
which was decorated in red, green and gold.
A large class room was set aside for bridge,
and supper was served in the basement.
The guests were all of the younger set.
Lady Hore-Ruthven and Mayoress Bony-
tlion were present at the social in connection
with the Alliance Franqaise at the Adelaide
Women’s Club. They were received by the
committee and presented with bouquets. A
French comedy arranged by Miss Barrett
was presented by members. Those who did
not understand a word of French laughed
with the rest, with private hopes that the
jests were not too blue.
The Lyceum Club got enthusiastic over
Benno Moiseiwitsch and gave an afternoon
tea in his honor. Women visitors to this
State are always entertained in the morning
by the club, but perhaps it was discovered
that the pianist is not an early riser. The
new president (Mrs. Charles Todd) received
him. The gathering, save for the guest of
honor and Mr. Tait. was strictly feminine.
Later in the week Mayoress Bonython gave
a party for the virtuoso at the Town Hall.
She wore a smart little frock of black crepe
de Chine with a scarlet paisley border,
arranged in handkerchief points, and worn
with a small black felt hat. After tea had
been consumed. Mrs. Bonython welcomed
the visitor in a charming little speech.
Moiseiwitsch preferred to say his thanks in
music, and played “Flirtation in a Chinese
Garden.” The guests included most of the
musical people of the city, and the Elder
Con. was well represented.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The bridge party in aid of the funds of
the Alexandra Hospital spread itself through
three rooms at Hadley’s, and raked in a
goodly sum. There was a buffet supper, and
all the arrangements were smoothly carried
out by a committee, consisting of Mrs. Basil
Crisp, Mrs. W. Huberts and Mrs. John
Murdoch. One room was devoted to tables
for mah jongg. The prize-winners were Miss
Travers and It. Koch (bridge), and Mrs. C.
Shephard and F. Grant (mah jongg). Mar-
garet O’Grady was among the players.
Special rail-motor trips to National Park,
to enable the winter-sportily-inclined to in-
dulge their fancy are being run at week-ends
while the smow is thick. The first expedition
was well patronised, a party of about 30
making the trip and spending the time in
ski-ing during the day and dancing at the
accommodation-house in the evening.
The Southern Tas. Hockey Association has
to put its hand in its pocket and produce
£6O towards the inter-State hockey fund,
and in yiew of the coming championship
matches, to be held in Sydney, and the ex-
penses of the players concerned, a bridge
party at the Eyceum Club was organised by
the Selby Wilson girls. A good number
rolled up to swell the funds. The Southern
players chosen are Molly McGee, L. Mason,
Ruth Adams and Eileen Monks.
Mayor and Mayoress Wignall entertained
Mayor and Mayoress McCabe, of North
Fremantle, and the visiting football team
from East Fremantle at the Town Hall at
a morning-tea party. Present also were
J. R. Lynn, patron of the club, and, among
local folk, C. J. Eady, the Brains, several
of the aldermen and their wives, and other
interested guests. The McCabes at one time
lived in Hobart.
Mrs. McPhee, wife of the Speck’s new
Premier, is shy of the camera, and of pub-
licity generally. She thinks the notoriety of
the head of the household is as much as
one modest family can stand. Nevertheless,
her interests are not entirely confined to the
home, as she is the president of the Tas-
manian Women Graduates’ Association,
which carries with it the vice-presidency of the
Federal Council of the Australian Federation
of University Women. Also she is much
interested in the local W.C.T.U.
A late Launceston engagement to be an-
nounced is that of Doreen Birchall to Dr.
Harold Thomas, Elmere, Manly, Sydney.
WE STRALI A.
Perth.
To furnish the coffers of the Repertory
Club, Mrs. Cecil Mason arranged a musical
afternoon., Mrs. Mouritzen’s beautiful mezzo-
soprano and Mrs. Peattie’s lighter note 3
blended in a duet, and both contributed
solos. Miss Skinner recited, Jean Temple-
ton played a piano solo and Mrs. Mason sup-
plied accompaniments. Mrs. Mouritzen wore
a suit of fawn sponge Jersey threaded with
gold; Mrs. Peattie chose an ensemble of
kingfisher-blue; Mrs. Roy Saw sported a
stonemarten choker above her frock of
chenille velvet; Edna Russell wore a blue
and green jumper suit, and Mrs. Mason a
smart model of French beige, with a dash
of scarlet in her hat. Among others there
were Mrs. Walter Kingsmill, in a black coat
trimmed with squirrel tails, the Lathlain
lady, Mrs. Jesse and Lillah Malloch.
The Law Students held their frolic in the
Y.A.L. Hall. Iceland poppies decorated the
long tables in the supper-room. Among the
legal lights present were J. P. Dwyer, presi-
dent of the D.S.A., Prof. Beasley, Ross
McDonald, Tom Louch, M. G. Lavan, Arthur
Hardwick, Frank Quinlan, Don Cleland,
Ken Davidson and P. S. Durston.
Loreto nuns are proud of Connie Moffit
and Highgate Hill sisters have a similarly
high opinion of Norma Parker. These clever
lassies sailed by the Largs Bay en route for
Washington and a two-years’ special scholar-
ship course in applied psychology. Miss
Moffit, who hails from Leonora, graduated
in Arts last year at Perth Uni. Miss Parker’s
schooling commenced in the kindergarten of
the Highgate Hill convent and finished in the
leaving class, where she won an exhibition
scholarship. During her Uni. course she
bagged the Lady Hackett Prize for Classics
and last year she tacked a B.A. on to her
name.
William Lathlain, who wore the mayoral
chain and robes in this city in the war
period and in the difficult years after the
Armistice, was fortunate in having at his
right hand a
wife who
threw herself
wholeheartedly
into the many
movements
which looked
to the civic
heads for sup-
port and guid-
a n c e. M r.
Lathlain’s lady
—a K.B. re-
warded her
husband’s six
years of ser-
vice for the
city watches
her husband’s
political career
with keen in-
terest, an d
continues t o
take an active
part in social
work, her pet institution being the Children’s
Hospital.
A recently-announced engagement is that
of Dorothea, widow of Romily Farrar, to
Edmund Collins, of Malvern. Melbourne.
The play readings conducted by E. E.
Unwin, head of Friends’ High School, under
the banner of the W.E.A. have been very
successful all through the series. Barrie’s
“Mary Rose” was perhaps the most liked
of them all. Barbara Storey, in the name-
part, read with great artistic perception.


CAM YOU PAY
9TIU MORE TAXII ?
Compensation of all whose
interests would be affected
by the introduction of NO
LICENSE will cost at least.
*
0.000
r 4,600,000
to compensate for the loss of Federal
Customs and Excise Duties. To this
must be added £1,100,000 interest
and £3,500,000 cost of enforcement.
This means a burden of at least an-
other £20,000,000 capital expendi-
ture and £8,100,000 annually on the
shoulders of the already overloaded
taxpayers of N.S.W.
Can you pay? Do you WANT to
pay? Is it worth while handing out
twenty million pounds in return for
an unworkable destruction-dealing
fad which is unworthy of the name
‘Taw”?
0
/A
//I
Is it worth while curtailing your pleasure and your children’s oppor-
tunities in order to find money for a measure which has proved a dis-
astrous failure wherever it has been tried?
Do not be misled by the vague sentimentalisms of unpractical agitators.
Prohibition is wrong in principle and BECAUSE it is wrong in principle
it can never succeed. To state that the introduction of Prohibitionwould
help N.S.W. is OBVIOUSLY untrue* You can best help your State and
jthe principle of temperance by smashing die Prohibition fad!
VOTE MO'
Inserted by the CITIZENS’ RIGHTS AND LIQUOR REFORM ASSOCIATION,
to further the cause of Liberty and Freedom of Action. Financial Support is
invited, and Subscriptions for Membership will be received at BELMONT
CHAMBERS, 15 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.


WHEN IN BRITAIN
You will wish to see
CAMBRIDGE : : YORK
HARROGATE, EDINBURGH
and other
Beautiful Cathedral Cities.
Those are on the
London 8 North-Eastern Railway
The track of the “Flying Scotsman.”
SHORTEST AND QUICKEST
between
LONDON AND SCOTLAND.
Illustrated Booklets describing Resorts on
the L.N.E.R. will be gladly supplied on
application to Messrs. BURNS, PHILP & CO.,
LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches ;
or in London at the L.N.E.R. West End
Offices, 71 Regent Street, and 59 Piccadilly,
W.l.
Agents throughout New Zealand:
J. A. REDPATH & SONS, LTD.
Tour England and Scotland
by L.N.E.R.
K3O.
AN IDEAL FOOD— KRAFT CHEESE
KRAFT Cheese is the purest, the cleanest and the most flavorsome
cheese you can buy. It is wrapped in tinfoil, and there is no rind,
no waste —every morsel is eaten with zest.
Kraft Cheese has a mellow and
delectable flavor.
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
c
Bold by weight
or in lib. cartons
by all grocers
and storekeepers.
Kraft Cheese is made in Australia by Kraft Walker Cheese Co.
Pty., Ltd., Riverside A\ enue, Melbourne, Victoria.
yw>
Sore Throat
is quickly conquered
by a few tablets of
fORMAMINT
* tl _ n toltlsk
The Germ-hilling Throat tablet*
At all Chemists.
Ltd. Loughborough. England.
The Top of the Hill
By J.H.M. ABBOTT
CAPTAIN ROBERT CANTOR, R.N..
visiting the Hunter River in 1825, at
the request of Governor Brisbane, with
a view to reporting upon the capacity of the
district for profitable development—a task,
it seems, that was almost wholly beyond the
captain’s capabilities—kept a curious pri-
vate journal, which is really the most dis-
tinguished thing he ever did. lie was. wo
know, a competent professional seaman, and
his qualities as a fighter, on occasion, called
forth the commendation of Lord Nelson him-
self. Old-time gossip classes him as a polite
and gentlemanly person, agreeable in good
society, condescending and kindly in manner
towards his subordinates and decorous and
discreet in his private life. Yet the gallant
officer, not at all inclined to hide the light
of his loves under a bushel, writes himself
down in his Pepysian record as quite a dog
of a fellow, of a sly humor and some
malice.
But he was an egregiously bad judge in the
matter as to which his Excellency the Astro-
nomer selected him to report. There is
hardly a point upon which he has turned
out to be right. “To sum up,” he wrote,
“the Delta of Hunter’s River will never be,
in my opinion, a suitable place for the estab-
lishment of any other kind of settlement than
a penal one. The entrance to the harbor at
King’s Town is dangerous and uncertain,
and the lands to which it gives access are a
veritable wilderness, having little to recom-
mend them save the large quantities of redr
cedar to be found in the district. When they
are depleted there will be few uses to which
this terrain may be expected to be profitably
put. The coal deposits appear, it is true,
to be extensive and of good quality, but it
does not seem likely that they can ever be
worked upon a paying basis, their distance
from large populations and the restricted
local use of coal fuel at present obtaining
being factors inimical to their development.
The chimerical delusion that steam is
destined to supersede the use of sails in the
navigation of the ocean may be, in my
opinion, deservedly put aside in its entirety.
In short, I can see little future for this
Settlement other than on the lines upon
which it has hitherto been conducted. It is
solely suitable for a Convict Establishment.”
The captain’s frank personal log-book is
an extremely interesting and diverting
volume, not at all unworthy of being men-
tioned in the same category as the immortal
Diary. It has an inimitable naivety, a
frankness of self-revelation, an utter truth-
fulness and a waggish humor that endow it
with the precious qualities of rare historic
commentary. Never does it lack the fresh-
ness and zest of a living narrative. Never
is it apologetic or excusatory. One day—a.
day perhaps still a long way off—it will be
published, and will doubtless attain a popu-
larity quite as remarkable as the delightful
“Memoirs of William Hickey.” Robert Can-
tor was no inefficient judge of good men and
bad men, was a connoisseur in femininity, a
describer of his own times, and a critic of
them, without rival. Take his estimate of
that notable personage, Major Morrissett.
“This bluff and burly Commandant,” he
writes, “with his air of absolute monarchy,
his jovial devilishness, his competent criti-
cism of criminality, his gallows-lore and his
gallantries, is a source to me of continual
delight. He flogs and he flogs with the best
spirit in the world. His whip cracks, and
his wretched slaves construct a gigantic
breakwater between Colliers’ Point and the
Coal Island that will be his enduring monu-
ment. Up the River he rows his great barge,
with the triangles erected in its bows, and a
whole province bends its lacerated back in
fruitful husbandry. He flogs the boundaries
of settlement so that no ambiguity is pos-
sible. He waves his nine-tailed wand, and
establishes order and regularity where was
previous chaos and anarchy. His lictor, the
evil-visaged flagellator, carries the symbol
of his consulate into its four corners with
effective activity. Here is no Spoiled Child
of a community. The rod is never spared.
It rises and falls with the regularity of the
tides, the certainty of sunset, the inevitability
of night and morning. It regulates all that
is susceptible of regulation. ‘You have a
great deal of flogging here, Major, have you
not?’ I observed to him yesterday, as we
passed by the Jail, whence emanated the dole-
ful wailing of some wretch undergoing
punishment. ‘Ah, yes,’ he assented; ‘but
very little hanging, my dear Cantor —very
little hanging!’ Which is quite true. I have
only seen four capital executions in five
weeks.”
For two months 11.M.5. Termagant lay in
the river whilst her commanding officer
busied himself in investigating the possibili-
ties of the district, and, as he quite frankly
avows in his diary, the seduction of Mrs.
Portman, the handsome wife of the officer of
the Buffs in command of the Newcastle gar-
rison.
He is quite open about it. But it would
“He’s got a lady with him, a-climbing up that high hill to the south’ard, and his arm's
about her waist.”
be wrong to adjudge him guilty of cold-
blooded and callous villainy in this any
more than in those other innumerable affairs
which were his habit and diversion wherever
the call of duty took him. He was entirely
guileless in them—that is to say. he never
regarded the moral undoing of maid or wife
or widow in the light of a reprehensible and
abhorrent crime against society and the
laws of God. It is plain enough, from his
private comment, that he only looked upon
such strayings from the narrow way of tine
morality as more or less innocent 1 >
by no means to be harshly judged, and at
their worst, as only amusing houtings of con
vention. There was no reason why anyone
should be injured by their indulgence if
properly viewed in the broadminded fashion
of men and women of the worid. IN ot t
least. The only person, m his estimation,
who ever suffered froin them was Mrs.
Grundy. lie was a joyously unmoral man,
not an immoral one. You must come to this
conclusion when you study his literary
mains. You will certainly not arrive at
disliking this sailor with a satyr mart
In fact, you will sometimes find yourself,
in entire sympathy with him when lie laments
occasional unsuccesses. lie was a most
charmingly innocent betrayer of female
chastity.
* * * *
Henrietta Portman was a blonde Juno
with a merry eye, married to a melancholy
misanthrope who should have been a monk.
She found King's Town —as the place was
called for a little while about a century
ago—a village of infinite boredom.
“Gangs of convicts come in and out of
holes in the ground, or puddle in the surf,
a-building the breakwater. Henry inspects
his guards, and discusses penal discipline
with the Commandant. Sometimes, in a
gentlemanly manner, they get decorously
drunk together. I flirt a little with the
doctor and the chaplain. The sun rises in
the Pacific Ocean and sets in Wallis Plains.
We eat. and we sleep. Such, my dear Cap-
tain Cantor, is life at the Coal River, It
is one long yawn. I declare to you that
my mouth has been less open since the Ter-
magant anchored in the river than it has
been, hitherto, since we came here... _ You
can have no idea how positively exciting it
is to look through Henry’s telescope at the
ceremony of hoisting the. White Ensign on
your ship each morning, and its downhaul at
Retreat. The addition of the Termagant
to the scenery has been a blessing indeed.
An inestimable blessing. As for yourscL
She smiled meaningly at him, and the
delighted sailor bowed his acknowledgments.
“Oh dear me, Mrs. Portman, you don’t
say so! Well, well —suppose we take a little
walk to the top of the hill, and enjoy the
sea breeze? Yes, Oh, delign tful, Im
sure!”
Long before, Colonel Paterson had given
to the rising ground on the southern shore
the descriptive title of the Sheep Pasture
Hills, with some half-bibulous notion that
the woodless, grassy valleys reminded him
of the Sussex Downs. Gentle swellings of
green turf, divided by wide gullies having
outlets in the stratified steepness of the
coastal cliffs, certainly did look a little
incomplete without the white globular wool-
liness of flocks of round-rumped sheep brows-
ing about their slopes, and the Settlement s
few head of cattle, pigs and goats seemed
unduly favored by the possession of such
a grazing-ground; but it had another aspect
in the eyes of Captain Cantor.
“No better place could be desired,” he
records in the journal, “for such an affair
as I had in contemplation. The hilltops
command wide views of the surrounding
country, and are easily attained with little
exertion. The most delicate of lovely crea-
tures would not be likely to arrive at any of
these exhilarating summits with ardency im-
paired by the exhaustion incidental to steep
and laborious climbing. An invigorating
stroll up imperceptible slopes, cooled by the
gentle zephrys of the Nor’-East breeze fan-
ning refreshingly across a sapphire sea, leads
to these Summits of Delight. Incomparable
views charm the eye, no Peeping Tom lurks
inquisitively in the neighborhood. Romantic
solitude predisposes the female mind to
gracious acquiescence. The country being
wholly clear of arborical foliage, no rude inter-
rupter of bliss may intrude unnoticed upon
the, scene. ’Twas to one of these incom-
parable seraglios to which I led the delight-
ful Mrs. P. this lovely afternoon. But —
alas for the uncertainty of human prognosti-
cation —we Were destined to be interrupted
in a fashion as rude as it was unwelcome.”
A bitter enmity existed between Captain
Cantor and his First Lieutenant, which
was of such a sort, so far as jt affected the
latter gentleman, as to permit of no hope
of any reconciliation. With grim anticipa-
tion, Mr. Fitzwilliam Cooke looked forward
to his promotion to post-captain’s rank for
the reason, above aught else, that it would
equalise them socially, and deprive Captain
Cantor of any ground for refusing the
bloody and deadly combat looked forward to
by his second-in-command as his dearest
hope in life.
For his part, the captain bore Mr. Cooke
but little ill-will. He was too good-natured
to treasure up ill-feeling, too happily dis-
posed towards life to harbor rancor. Mr.
Cooke’s grievance ! was a trifling thing. The
man who could entertain it so implacably
must be wanting in self-control, in the
faculty of adjusting himself easily with exist-
ence —indeed, in the most elementary eom-
monsense, It was true that lie had spent
a week-end in the New Forest with Mr.
Cooke’s inamorata. What of that? Hjs
only comment upon the First Lieutenant’s
ill-humored attitude was simply— Tish! He
had no time to worry over such negligible
trifles.
It was unfortunate that the captain, hav-
ing gone ashore in the forenoon, leaving him
in command of the ship, a projected kan-
garoo-hunting expedition with Captain Port-
man had had to be abandoned, and that,
consequently, Mr. Fitzwilliam Cooke paced
the quarterdeck of H.M.S. Termagant in a
frame of mind that can only be described
as peevish. Very unfortunate was it for
young Sam Macready, the midshipman of the
watch, who, somnolent in the warm sunshine,
and lulled as in a cradle by the gentle roll
of the ship as she lay at her moorings
opposite to the King’s Wharf, dozed com-
fortably upon the breech of a gun, and pre-
sently fell so sound asleep that he tumbled
over on the deck —to awaken in pain and
consternation to the flaming wrath of the
First Lieutenant.
“D—n you, you young whelp!” roared
the angry executive officer. “What d’ye
mean by it? Up aloft with you, this
instant! Here, take my glass, and search
the country thoroughly to every point of the
horizon. From the maintopmast truck.
When the ship’s bell strikes each half-hour,
come down to the deck, and make a full,
true and particular report of every d —d
thing you observe ashore. You will come to
my cabin, and make it to me. By ——,
I’ll teach you to sleep whilst on duty!”
At six-bells Mr. Macready knocked at the
door of Mr. Cooke’s cabin, arousing that
gentleman from a doze, and thereby further
impairing his temper. He sat up with a
snarl, and proceeded to harry Captain Can-
tor’s substitute with wicked enjoyment.
(Continued on page 53.)


TA«urnof
eomnn »»•»» « r
CREAM
OF
YEAST
YauU
Tho l*«rf«c< i»—
VYltannlM Toni«
V\ Comoound
Compound
SURE. SAPS
iratMCTH 6ivM
>4‘
•oiAToaun
*.*
s*
'Zf p
fK
The value of Yeast for Better Health is everywhere recog-
nised. The world s leading scientific men have unanimously reported in favor of
it for intestinal and digestive disorders, skin troubles, faulty elimination, “run-
down conditions and other ills. It is most important, however, that the public
should realise that yeast, to be 100 per cent effective, must be activated, and
that it is incorrect to suppose that any kind of yeast will give the same results
as genuine Cream of Yeast.
Brewers* yeast alone does not work at its best
as a remedy for everyday ills and “below-par**
conditions. So the greatest chemical organisation
in the world manufacturing medicinal yeast, after
considerable research and experience, evolved the
special activated form known as Cream of Yeast.
Cream of Yeast g'ives you the following Benefits
(PLAIN BREWERS' YEAST DOES NOT GIVE THESE BENEFITS)
This is a highly-compressed yeast, scientifically
combined with other perfectly safe medicinal
agents of known therapeutic value in such a way as
vastly to increase the value of yeast for remedial
purposes. In Cream of Yeast is offered a handy medi-
cine giving prompt benefit with absolute certainty .
Headaches stopped in 4 minutes. Acidity, Sour Stomach
and Indigestion stopped in 3 minutes. Rheumatic Attacks,
Influenza Colds, etc., countered within IS hours.
Depression and “Brain Fag” banished in 8 minutes.
Nerves Steadied in 10 minutes. Energy increased within
15 minutes. Abdominal Pains relieved in 12 minutes .
Try this modern Remedy for yourself, but do not fail to remember that you must get
Cream of Yeast if you want the best results, More Cream of Yeast is sold than all other
yeast medicines combined, yet Cream of Yeast costs very little, a flask of 24 tablets being
1/11, 48 Tablets 3/6, or 125 Tablets 5/9. Since any good chemist can supply you, why
not let this remarkable remedy rid you of those ailments that now mar your health and
good looks? The very first dose of Cream of Yeast will convince you of
its unusual merit.
X I f.
a
r\
Quickest, Surest, Best Results . Largest Sales .
75 % More Beneficial than Brewers’ Yeast .


Everyone agrees that the
Daily Newspaper is a
wonderful advertising medium,
And in the Great State of
QUEENSLAND
the morning daily that to-day stands out easily supreme is
THE DAILY MAIL
Whose net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be
greater than that of any other Queensland daily.
Manufacturers and business men who buy their advertising space in the
best market nowadays select **The Daily Mail as the first medium m
Queensland to carry their advertising messages. For further particu-
lars, Advertising Rates, etc., please apply to
ROBERT JACKSON, N.S.W. Branch Manager.
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
CLYNE HOUSE, 72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone 81522.
FOR 86 YEARS
“ The Examiner” has been the trusted Friend of the Family
in Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in
Tasmania, and is still the Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS
Pty. Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
MR. V. W. MARGETTS,
122 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.
MR. W. G. DOUGAN,
701 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
w
I S3
Y cO
&
Empties with a
lIThumb Pressure
There is no dirty, dusty bag to handle,
but instead a simple thumb pressure
drops the sweepings out on a paper or
wherever you wish to empty it.
And it is as simple to use—just run it
over the carpet —no wires, no compli-
cated mechanism.
Makes good sweeping easy.
Instantly ready for use.
Gets clinging litter.
Saves carpets.
Cost but little—and nothing to run.
Verily,a ball-bearing broom-on-wheels
with its own long-handled dust pans.
Play size Bissells at trifling cost.
Sold by leading merchants everywhere.
Booklet upon invitation.
BISSELL CARPET SWEEPER CO.
GRAND RAPIDS, MICHIGAN, U. S. A.
Export Dep’t—46 West Broadway
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
Oldest and Largest Sweeper Makers
720-a
“THE AGE.”
Established 1854 s
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“THE AGE” is a publication of quality and
character, and has earned an enviable reputa-
tion by seventy-four years of steadfast labor
in the production of a clean family newspaper.
A Victorian production of National import-
ance, “THE AGE” occupies a place in journal-
ism unsurpassed anywhere. Original, of un-
doubted prestige, a leader in everything and
a political force recognised by all.
If you desire to keep fully informed of the
news of the day read
“THE AGE.”
It provides a daily interpretation of current
topics and enables its subscribers to keep in
touch with the world’s progress.
“THE AGE” publishes over
1,000,000 advertisements
annually.
Price lid. per co?»- at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter, post free
within the Commonwealth.
DAVID SVME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
©je Register
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
in
THE REGISTER,
which is read by all classes,
Proprietors:
W. K. THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
ERIC N. BIRKS, N.S.W. Representative.
Telephone X.0'187.
G. N. BEDNALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.
I THE MARK OF
AGOODRAZO
I
THE
PLUW-
Ask any man voo know who use* a PLUM—
ask him if he doesn't thmk it the best
Razor he has ever used. Hear him
answer, "Why, rather!"
s3*
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT IN
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
12 6
Post Free.
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
“Well, now, my young Morpheus,” lie
roared at the hoy—“come, let me hear from
you. Now, then, what’s a-happening to the
nor-rard ?”
“Sir, there’s a large bush-fire near Morna
Point, and three black men a-dodging about
in the mangroves opposite here. But ’tis
in the south that things are happening, sir.”
The lad’s fresh face was full of roguish
excitement.
“Well, then, spit it out. Let’s have it.”
“If you please, sir, Captain Cantor,
sir”
“Oh d —n him !” bellowed the First Lieu-
tenant, altogether careless of the ethics of
discipline, as the detested name afflicted his
ears. “I don’t want to hear about the
captain!”
“But, sir, he’s got a lady with him,
a-elimbing up that high hill to the south-
’ard, and his arm’s about her waist, if you
please, sir.”
It was evident that Mr. Midshipman Mac-
ready had not found his punishment unbear-
able. With huge enjoyment lie went on:
“Sir, he’s kissed her five times! And ’tis
Mrs. Portman, sir.”
With a howl of rage, Mr. Cooke sprang
to his feet, to the great startling of Mr.
Macready, picked up liis sword from his cot
and buckled his belt. He stuck his cap on
his head and yelled at the astonished infant.
“All right, all right, d —n you—you
are excused further punishment. Find the
bos’n, and order him to pipe away the
cutter. I’m going on shore. Warn the
Second Luff he’s in charge. By Gad, I’ll
checkmate the villain this time! I’ll attend
to him!”
* * * *
Shepherd’s Hill they call it now, and it
is crowned by an obsolete fort and a pretty
park, with encircling carriage drives and a
band-stand laid out at its foot, and it is
said to be not a bad place at all whereto
to escort pretty ladies on summer after-
noons and moonlit nights. Down below it,
at the foot of the precipitous cliffs, the
ocean surges and splashes into the Bogey
Hole—the swimming! bath carved in the
black mudstone for liis luxuriance by Major
Morrissett’s slaves a hundred years ago.
Many beautiful miles of sea and coast
and land-contours lie within the eye’s sweep
to all the wide compass-points. Over the
easterly corner of the city, Fort Scratchley
and Nobby’s—the old Coal Island —jut into
the shining waters. For eighteen miles the
white foam-washed curve of Stockton Beach
circles round to Port Stephens. Easterly
spreads the blue Tasman Sea to the round-
ing edge of things visible. South lie Little
Red Head and Red Head itself, and far off
Norah Head, whose white winking light at
night-time is a half-way milestone to Port
Jackson. Far away to west and nor’-west
stretch the Broken Back Mountains, the
Sugar Loaf Peak towering above its fellows
in the purple ranges. An excellent place of
cool breeze and lovely outlook, whose charm
and beauty is in no sense marred by the
presence of a pretty woman. And to-day,
just as it was a century ago, you may keep
open and wary eye for the interloper and
spoil-sport, and see him coming afar off.
Captain Cantor, that old campaigner, was
wise in the choice of a locality wherein to
stage the siege of Mrs. Portman’s not-too-
strenuously-resisting citadel of the affections.
But Lieutenant Fitzwilliam Cooke, R.N.,
was a strategist of no mean capacity him-
self. He landed up the river, opposite to
the lower end of Bullock Island, and took
his enemy in the rear. No one —both the
languishing and sighing and palpitating
Henrietta and the ardent Robert were
careful to observe it in the midst of all
their dalliance—approached from the direc-
tion of the town. They were gloriously and
delightfully alone, a little way below the
skyline, behind a stunted geebung-bush.
“My lovely English angel!” murmured
Captain Cantor, kissing the back of her neck
with ecstasy, as she reclined in his encir-
cling arms.
“Oh Robert — dear Robert —you mustn’t!”
And then, with a harrowing shriek of
outraged virtue, she tore herself from his
clasp, and stood, all hot and dishevelled,
glaring down at the astonished and afflicted
lover seated on the grass.
“Oh, my God, sir!” she cried. “What do
you mean ? How dare you ! Oh, sir—l
pray for your protection.”
Utterly astounded, the bewildered Captain
Cantor struggled to his feet, and turned his
gaze in the direction towards which she
stretched beseeching and entreating arms.
Standing stern and erect against the sky,
with his arms folded austerely across his
bosom —blue-coated, gold-laced and duck-
trousered —the spare form of Lieutenant
Fitzwilliam Cooke, R.N., towered against
the reddening sunset like a silhouetted statue
of outraged scornful virtue in contempla-
tion of the shameful degradation of his
fellow man. He lifted his cap, bowed
politely to his superior officer, and then
stepped forward towards the weeping lady
with out-raised crooked right elbow.
“Madam,” he said, “permit me, if you
will, to offer that protection you desire, and
to escort you homeward. Sir,” he addressed
his commanding officer, “I beg you will
excuse us.”
Captain Cantor silently watched them, as
Mr. Cooke very perfectly played the part of
Knight Errant on the green hillside to the
also very perfect playacting of the out-
raged lady. Presently its slope hid them
from his goggling gaze. He turned and
looked at the splendor of the sunset, smiling
a little sourly but not without benevolence.
“Ah, well,” he muttered to the darkling
distant ranges, “Mr Cooke certainly owed
me that. He has been fortunate in his luck.
But how the devil”
“I surmise,” says that truthful, intimate
journal —too honest to be ashamed —“that
our presence upon the hilltop became known
to Fitzwilliam Cooke by a fortuitous cir-
cumstance which no foresight and care could
in any wise guard against. The clue was
presented to me by my faithful coxswain,
James Turnbull. As he brought me off to
the ship in the dusk, he made a remark
which set me thinking. ‘Them young snot-
ties, your honor,’ he observed, ‘sees a deal
more’ii ye’d give ’em credit for.’ ‘What do
you mean, coxswain?’ I asked him. ‘Why,
sir,’ says the excellent tarpaulin, ‘Mr.
Macready was at the masthead, wi’ the
First Lieutenant’s spy-glass from three
bells to five bells this afternoon. An un-
common hobservant young gemman, sir!’ he
says. So Mr. Macready was invited to take
a glass of grog with me in my cabin this
evening. I must say that Mr. Cooke is
singularly favored by chance. Had this
young gentleman not fallen asleep upon the
quarterdeck, lie would never have been in
a position to interfere with the accomplish-
ment of so much mutual felicity. To-morrow
I exchange shots with Captain Portman
upon the hilltop. The lovely Henrietta is
endowed with all the independability of her
sex. In all truthfulness I do not grudge
the First Lieutenant his score. However,
I find that I will easily be able to spare
him for the surveying work his Excellency
desires to have carried out at Port Stephens.
After that I think it will be possible to
find-him further employment in Bass Strait.
He is a fine hydrographer. I could wish,
however, that his temper was less vindic-
tive. What is of the past should be allowed
to remain of the past. In the future, I will
not depend too confidently upon the in-
violability of summits. A good system of
outposts should not be neglected. Never
again will I take up a position, however
commanding the outlook, without first estab-
lishing security by means of the faithful
Turnbull. This is a sorry business, but a
bullet in tfie shoulder will not greatly in-
commode Captain Portman, and will afford
wifely occupation for his charming but
uncertain spouse.”
Necromancer.
The fruitshop held a charm for me:
Purple grapes, a sight to see,
Were piled beside the shining gold
Of mellow quinces, wealth untold
To youthful eyes.; and luscious wares—
As strawberries and russet pears,
Rich cantaloupe and honeydew,
And sugar-melons, cut in two
To show the crisp, pink flesh inside—
\v ere heaped within the windows wide,
And made a goodly sight to greet
A stroller in a city street,
YVlio’d hungered through the autumn days
For country folk and country ways;
For orchards wide and grassy fields
And all the joys the country yields.
Such colors rich and scents there were
To conjure up the past; such rare
And frost-crisped grapes, all russet-browned
And lioney-sweet; gay turkscaps, crowned
With warmest red; the Titian hue-
Of carrots, row on row; a few
Ripe persimmons and pears—-the lot
A color feast not soon forgot.
What wonder that I saw again
The little winding country lane;
The low-roofed, homely house close hy;
The garden full of fruit, where I
And boon companions roved at will,
Or sat beneath the window-sill
To eat our spoils ! Oh, it was joy
At fruiting time to be a boy !
It had no sloping, landscape grace—
’Twas just a rambling, friendly place,
Where everything just grew and grew
And laughed with every wind that blew.
Ripe apples o’er the kitchen thatch
Were rosy-red; the strawberry patch,
All wet with dew, was endless fun,
As eagerly each day we’d run
To search for berries, ripe and red, .
So tempting in their leaf-cool bed.
It was a realm of treasure-trove,
And just the place to questing rove
As I did once, when youth and joy
YVere everywhere, and I a boy.
What wonder that the heart of me
Was stirred with memory to see
A wealth of fruit from country lanes
Behind a fruitsliop’s window-panes!
VICTORIA.
LUVY HILL.
Lost Laughter.
You smiled into my eyes, and took my hand,
And I, poor fool! thought “She will Under-
stand,”
For I was lonely, and could find no friend
In all the heedless world to comprehend.
And so I told you—for your eyes were
kind —
The long heart-hunger of my brooding mind,
Seeking, alone by ways where no star gleams,
The beauty and the bitterness of dreams.
And of the fate, that seemed a curse, I
bore
To love yet hate my kind for evermore.
You smiled with gay red lips curved mock-
ingly
And seared my soul with an inanity.
That was long since. Now in this grey-
lit hour
Sadly I grow less positive of power,
Less certain Youth’s intolerance was wise
That found no understanding in your eyes.
This I know surely, I shall never find
Eyes so compassionate, so human-kind.
Nor yet in life such laughter to express '
The careless marvel men call Happiness.
For time has wakened at my heart a brood
Of cynic doubts that mock at certitude
Whereof the boldest grimly puts a case:
“What if the deepest depths prove common-
place?”
Throned on the chaos of the frozen skies
The sphinx of darkness stares with awful
eyes.
Ah, yet more wisdom lurks perchance in
this
A girl’s gay smile and youth-enchanted kiss.
The rainbow’s magic o’er the mist may be
More than the dim heart of the deptiiless
sea;
And a bird singing on the hillside more
Than blind Golconda darkling at its core.
I know but this, out of the dim years’ pain
Only your laughter echoes back again.
O laughing lady neatli that far blue sky
Haply ’twas you who understood, not I.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


Southerly.
A COMPLETE SHORT STORY BY MARGARET FAME ASD HILARY LOFTING.
BLACK MARIA lurched heavily under
the archway of Central and halted
at the grilled door, the constable step-
ping lightly from his narrow perch to the
pavement. Even in the black mist of his
rage Alf could feel that there was an effort
behind the constable’s slick sprightliness;
he didn’t feel half so up-and-coming dancing
about out there in the solid heat as he’d
like you to think he felt. The grilled door
in the wall opened, and the flash John
greeted an invisible someone and went in,
while Black Maria waited ponderously for
the Central’s quota for Long Bay. Through
the quivering heat a sound of vacuous, tune-
less singing drifted out from the cells, break-
ing the studied indifference of the man beside
Alf. “Gawd,” he said softly, “I wish I was
in them flamin’ drunkses’ pozzy.” Alf looked
at him, half-surprised to find that he was
human enough to speak. Not much of a cove
to look at; rotten-soft with booze, and with
narrow eyes that slipped up and down you
all the time, looking as if they had some-
thing on you and were making up their
mind to spring it. He stank, too, and most
of him was sitting in Alf’s pocket, Alt’s seat
being the nearest to the wire grille.
“Why?” Alf asked, his voice sharp and
hard in contrast with the other’s.
The soft man’s face seemed to smile, but
his eyes remained grave and watchful. “A
flamin’ seven-days ’ll see ’em through at the
worst.” For the half of a second his eyes
lost their wary cunning and darkened with
regret. “It’ll be 1932 before I blow the froth
off—and that’s with good conduct.”
The giving of the year seemed to touch
a raw nerve in Alf. He tried unavailingly
to edge the man out of his pocket. “What
for?” he asked.
“Assault,” the man told him wearily.
“What’s your trouble, brother?”
“Desertion —maintenance,” Alf replied,
still stunned by that awfud hiatus between
now and 1932.
The soft man’s interest in him seemed to
lose its vitality. “Ah, that’s a bastard of a
Ac’ —everything for the Jane and flamin’
nothing for the man. But what’s the use?
They get nothing while you're in, and they
can chase you for somethin’ if you’re out.
Did the Bloke send you up, or are you
remand ?”
“Remand.”
“Bail?”
“Yes—forty quid.”
“Ah.” His interest took its final depar-
ture. Alf was not of the brotherhood.
“You’ll be all right. Prob’ly she’ll withdraw
it at the last moment. They mostly do the
first time.”
Would she? The black rage descended on
Alf again, shutting out the man’s murmuring
voice, the stink and the blanket of suffocat-
ing heat. Would she withdraw it? damn
her! Well, he wouldn’t take it; he’d rather
do his 12 months twide over. Making a
man’s life a misery with her questions and
her prying, keeping tabs on him morning,
noon and night, and rousing on him if he
was ten minutes later than she thought he
ought to have been.... It was a dirty deal.
He’d given her fair warning, after he’d stood
six months of it, with her mother more the
boss of his place than he was himself. Every
day that week she’d been round, nagging at
him and telling him to be a man and look
after his wife and leave the races and the
pub alone. The old swine.... and Sally kow-
towing to her and egging her on—not that
she wanted any egging on.
He’d given Sally a fair go—told her that
night that he wanted his place to himself,
and that the next time her mother came into
it he’d walk out of it. And Sally’d answered
him back —she wasn’t going to give up her
mother for anybody, and all that. And the
very next night when he got home from work,
there was the old devil drinking a cup o’ tea
in his chair.... So he did walk out, and
left them to it—had a couple, and spent
the night at his mother’s. She sent him
home in the morning, but he hadn’t gone
home —he’d had a couple more and gone to
the station instead, with a fortnight’s pay in
his pocket.
Central’s contribution of sin was two
ladies, very well-dressed and very foul-
mouthed. “Thang Gawd for that,” the soft
man told the company. “We c’d ’ardly stand
another passenger in ’ere, guard, not in this
dreadful ’eat.” His mocking eye elicited
nothing from the flash John bundling the
vociferous ladies into the other half of
Black Maria, the female half. “Could we,
Algernon, dearie?” he added in a sudden
high falsetto very startling and repulsive
coming from his debauched and shattered
personality.
“Cfluck it, Coke,” the John growled with-
out looking at him. “It-’s too hot for you.
You’re only a dirty job on a day like this.”
Alf would have called that a smack in the
face, but Coke turned easily and uncon-
sciously to a thin, hard shrewdie in the
stifling semi-darkness of the waggon.
“How is it at the Bay, Rupert?” he
inquired. “Skeeters bad?”
“Stinkin’,” Rupert told him. “Yer can’t
get a breath. I been remanded in custody fer
a flamin’ fortnight, with a free ride every
day”
Black Maria backed with inconsiderate
suddenness, and the remainder of Rupert’s
speech was lost.
“Last lap, brother,” Coke murmured. “We
stop at Darlinghurst for afternoon tea, and
then it’s ‘home, John,’ for the Bay.”
Somewhere in these streets of free people
Sally and her mother were crowing over him,
telling each other that now they’d put the
boot in he’d come round. Like Hell he
would. It was a rough spin, watching them
all walking along the pavement, going in
and out of shops as they liked and hopping
on to trams ; but he could stand worse than
this before he squealed. Trying to put the
wind up him....and no reason for it—her
mother had got plenty of money. More
than enough to stop Sally biting him for
maintenance, when it was the old womans
fault that be d left her. Sydney could look
as f ree and eaS y as liked from
behind the wire grille of Black Maria, and
all the stinking crooks in Surry Hills
could sit an’ lap in a heat-wave before he’d
in ; , ,
„ Black Maria swerved abruptly, tumbling
all the passengers on to Alffs lap and
swinging in between the gate-posts of Dar-
ffnghurst.
“All out, sweeties,” Coke said in that
foul falsetto, as the John glared at him and
unlocked the door „
You 11 get a bath at the Bay, Coke, he
said( and , eft it at that>
In the narrow pris on-yard Alf and Rupert
an d Coke joined a half-dozen waiting malc-
factors, and the gate of the yard was imper-
sonally bolted and locked behind them. It
?T as late afternoon and no slanting sun found
its way into the bleak bareness of the yard ;
yet the heat was intense> oppressing even
these presumably hardened men. They
glanced listlessly at the newcomers, an
elusive flicker of recognition greeting Coke
ai }d Rupert, and the tired, watchful eyes
sliding indifferently over Alf. A true
Sydney heat-wave had engulfed the city
f ol ' a week, and there was no kick left, even
in crime,
To Alf they looked pretty much alike;
he’d seen them all at the races often enough
—tough blokes, right enough in their way,
but liable to be a bit too clever some time,
The older ones, like Coke and the old Father
Christmas in the corner, were not so easy to
place. Coke, of course, was a wrong ’un
out and out; you couldn’t miss that after
two looks at him But the old cove in the
corner and these shrewdies—you might know
them for years and not place them as
crooks - ,
“You’ll get three years, I’m afraid,” Father
Christmas was saying ponderously. “The
magistrates have been very hot on indecent
assault of late”
“Three? I’ll get the issue—l’ll get five,”
the youth said indignantly, as if his pro-
fessional pride was hurt at the suggestion.
“Maybe, maybe,” Father Christmas said
soothingly. “I hope you get Bathurst if you
do - It’s more like a home than a gaol.”
Alf looked at the indignant youth, at his
pallor, his narrow face and bulging eyes. He
looked sick; but in Alffs opinion the five
years he insisted on were good enough for
him.
“All I can do is to plead flamin’ guilty.
I was in the place, and the goods were on
me. If I’m lucky I’ll get away with twelve
months. But if I go not guilty I’ll be lucky
if I get off with two years.”
That was a bloke you could be sorry for.
He was soft, but he wasn’t flash like
Rupert, and liis eyes were kind. A wrong
un ’ He yet was somehow a friendly, likeable
wron & un.
“I tell you I never saw the tickets.” This
speaker, too, was indignant in his turn. “The
moll had ’em all the time; the bitch had
me double-crossed from the start. It’s her
ought to be here, the flamin’ bastard, and
not me.”
The two men he was talking to listened
gravely but with a coldness, an indifference
that might have been the heat and might
have been the belief that the speaker was
trying it on them first as proxies for the
Bloke to-morrow. This latter was obviously
legitimate, but not less tedious for that,
Abruptly a deep weariness descended on
him, blotting out the cunning faces, the smell
and the murmuring babble. It had been a
eruel day, you couldn’t get away from it—
Hot enough to burn your eyes out, let alone
{-He chivvying-about he’d had. Last night
He d found the John at his room in Quincy
w Hen he got back from work, had had the
warrant read to him, taken off his overalls
ana S°t a bit of a wash, and gone straight
*H e . Quincy lock-up to spend a hungry
uight in h}s cell driven mad by mosquitoes,
T the J.P. in the morning and his formal
to the Sydney police, the fifty-mile
run 1° Sydney with the John, the court and
? remand at £4O bail until to-morrow morn-
I ng ’ or tHe Court to hear what Sally had
to say about it. No time to get the bail—
they’d telephoned to the corner-shop, but
mo ther was out—so there was nothing for
it but Black Maria and the night at Long
Bay
A-' ~, , , , , , , , . „
• W
teFnhon^for 6 wPher^TTp 6 wn^ S o| d * TV m
f '
T>.!i L„ Sul * i 1 ] Bllt Loi J s
Hfi fh/vtar l.u T e
11 Uwassohotso sHnkinehm
wf ? W * S *° hot ’ S ,° S ™ ng 'in-
. \Vhat she had to say about it. ... Remem-
benng all the smacks m the face he’d suffered
since he came back last night tired-out from
a solid day’s work in a heat-wave, he made
UD his mind that she and the Court would
hear wliat he had to say about it to-morrow.
Not in the blind fury that had swamped him
a n day, but quietly and steadily, as if he
mea nt it. And he did mean it. The day
h ad taken most of the kick out of him, but
he was still himself, Long Bay or no Long
Bay. There was some way of getting a fair
go out of it
The gate of the yard opened, and a John
came j n with a bit of paper. Those criminals
who had been sitting on the stone flagging
got up an d a silence fell,
“Alfred Hreen!”
Alf jumped. This would be his bail—
they’d found mother and she’d followed him
here.... A sudden glorious vision of evening
streets and a bit of shopping to do, the
lights, the chance of walking where he wanted
to walk, alone, swept up before him. “Yes,
Sergeant?” he said, his throat catching,
The John peered gravely at him. “Well,
hop to it,” he said pointing to the gateway
with his pencil. “The Long Bay tram’s wait-
ing for you. Rupert Doney ! ,J
“Ay, ay, Sergeant.”
Rupert’s answering voice was a shock of
tragic disappointment. The sergeant was
only calling the r 011.... And it was Long
Bay, Long Bay for certain, after all. No
bail, no bit of shopping in the lighted streets
.... only this heavy misery.
“Hop to it!” the sergeant repeated sharply,
and Alf stiffened his backbone and his face
and walked through the gateway at the head
of the line, waiting at the tram-step as he
was ordered.
That deep fatigue in the suffocating heat
made a blur of the tram-ride, the voices yell-
ing above the noise of the tram, the never-
ending smell of packed bodies. Coke touched
him for a cigarette, and everybody in the
compartment did the same when his posses-
sion of cigarettes was disclosed; but, bar-
ring that, the ride was a fog of swimming
heat that seemed to go on forever and yet
to end as soon as it began.
The routine of Long Bay made a quick
job of any blurred feeling or heat pressure.
Alf found himself christened No. 240 and
standing in a line in the yard, being told
to be quick and lively about emptying his
pockets into his hat upturned at his feet.
Not coming up to expectations in speed he
was roused on and told that he couldn’t
take cigarettes into the gaol—tobacco and
papers but not cigarettes. His pockets were
turned inside out, and deft hands ran lightly
over him. Passed, he joined another line
and gave his name, age, place of birth and
a multitude of personal details, all duly
entered in the crime records of New South
Wales, with a full description of his appear-
ance.
A unit of still another line, he stepped
lively across the yard and fetched his tea in
a pail, the sweat pouring off .him. The units
of the line were re-shuffled and he was told
to mark time before a gaunt stone building.
Presently a bell rang in this building, and
the line stepped lively again. At last, on
the second gallery 240 was locked into the
quietude of his cell.
Dazed and spent, he dropped on to the
stool and put the pail beside it. It was raw,
he told himself, his lip quivering for a
second, as raw as it could be. And he’d
(lone nothing.... By degrees, his face
stiffened again. He saw Sally on their
wedding-day more than a year ago, he
saw his mother, he saw the old school in
the ’Loo—everything that had ever hap-
pened seemed to look out at him from the
past.
A day at the beach, his first long trousers,
the girl at the fruit-shop ages ago, his
father’s funeral, his first real job, that
pink dress of Sally’s.... And it all boiled
down to this cell—No. 240 at Long Bay.
The electric globe high up over the door
seemed to wink at him in a dry mockery, as
if it were saying that it often all boiled
down to this, and once it did you never
really got away. You always came back,
like Coke and Rupert and Father Christ-
mas. ...
A panic seized and shook his spirit—how
was a man to know?.... Sally and her mother
might string him for eight months’ arrears
of maintenance —it was the law, whether her
people had money or not. And how was he
to find a lump like that? What was to
stop him spending years in gaol, with no
chance to earn the money to get out?. . . .
■Sally’s mother was an old devil. She’d do
anything if you got the wrong side of her.
How was a man to know?
A cove was helpless, when you came to
think of it. Old Coke was 23 once, with
nothing against him. Perhaps desertion and
maintenance was his first taste of it. And
here Alf was. You couldn’t get away from
it —sitting on a three-legged stool 'in his
cell, right or wrong. You could talk about
remand and bail and a fair go till you were
black in the face; there it was —at this
moment Alfred Green was locked up in Long
Bay
Gradually the silence seemed to reach out
a hand to him, something to get hold of in
this sea of terror. After all the din and
chiwying-about of the day the silence and
loneliness were like a long cool beer after
four hours’ solid graft in the sun. No good
letting himself go like that; if Sally could
see him now she’d laugh at him for an easy
mark. But Sally couldn’t see him now;
nobody could.
His face became hard and bleak as he
held on to the silence, felt the stillness and
peace sinking in. Damn her! What right
had she to shove her husband in gaol and
put a mark against him?....
Something seemed to be fretting at the
silencq out there on the gallery. Alf looked
up, staring at the iron door. A sudden
jangle of keys sounded and the door swung
open.
“Come on. Two-forty. Sorry to lose you
but your bail’s down below. Step lively.”
His heart turned a somersault as he stood
up and followed the warder, waiting while
he locked and bolted again the door of the
empty cell. He didn’t trust himself to ask
any questions or even to speak.
“Well, Alf,” his mother greeted him in
the bare whitewashed room, “I’m sorry I
couldn’t get to_ you before, but I was over
at Mrs. Porley’s and nobody knew where I
was till I got back.”
The sergeant handed him his two packets
of cigarettes. “That’s right, isn’t it?”
“Ta. Yes, that’s right,” he heard him-
self saying.
“Good-night. You’ll be right now.” The
sergeant’s wintry smile seemed to follow
him through the yard and out of the gate-
way.
Hungrily he watched the lights and the
passers-by from the tram, holding mother's
hand for a second on fhe seat and only half
listening to what she was saying.
“You’ll be wanting to get home and get
a cup of tea, Alf. I expect you’ve had a
pretty tiring day, what with one thing and
another.”
There they were, all walking along and
stopping every now and then to have a look
at the windows. If he liked he could hop
off this tram and join them.
“You know, if you’d let me know where
you were I could have told you things were
going wrong. It isn’t as if you’d any cause
to keep things back from me.”....
But the narrow compartment of the tram
and the heat were irking him ; he wanted to
be alone in a 40-acre paddock. The heat
was solid; in the concrete cell he hadn’t
felt it, but out here it was a furnace. Even
the walk down Palmer-street was like a
day’s work.
“Now look, Alf.” Mother settled herself
in her chair in the front room. “It’s what
I told you before: you’re too young to be
married and live in Sydney. You want to
clear out with your family into the country.
There’s too many race-meetings and hotels
in Sydney for a bit of a boy”
“What, with Sally? After this lot?”
Alf’s stony face stared at her.
“Why, yes, my dear. Sally’s your wife —--
“Tike Hell, Mum,” his implacable voice
replied. “I picked a bad ’un, but I needn't
carry her about with me. She might take
a fancy to chuck me into quod every now
and then.’
“Y.ou oughtn’t to speak like that, Alf.”
She looked anxiously into his face, but it
was the face of a relentless. “You know,
the heat's got a lot to do with it. I’m sure
it’s awful, and it gets on people’s nerves to
that extent they don’t know what they’re
doing”
“You’re talking through your hat, Mum.
I’m done with Sally, and that’s the end of
the section. The rest of it we’ll settle with
the magistrate to-morrow.”
She opened her mouth but, watching his
face, decided to close it again.
“You’re right about the heat, Mum. It’s
a fair stifler.”
A sullen, sodden blanket had lain over
the gasping city for nearly a fortnight. Day
after day the same fetid sweltering air had
clogged all the bodies and spirits until no
one seemed quite responsible. It was a list-
less city in which all the evil and hatred had
been gradually drawn to the surface by the
stifling heat. There was a feeling of danger
and terror in it; the Domain trees were
stilled in a vague menace, and a livid anger
seemed to shine on the Harbor. The very
pavements were jaded and hopeless;, the
stones of the buildings* suffocating in
despair. And such humans as, like Alf and
Sally and Mrs. Green, faced destiny in this
heat did so with only half their birthright
of spirit. It was a hard day’s work to be
alive with nothing to think about.
Alf looked up. “That’s the gate, isn’t it,
Mum ?”
“Yes, that’s the gate,” she said without
looking up. “The door’s open.”
Presently Sally stood in the doorway of
the front-room, her gaze flitting from mother
to Alt’s rigid face. Tho half smile on her
lips died as she saw his tight-shut mouth
and cold, accusing eyes.
“If we’d cleared out and gone into the
country it would never .have happened,”
she began, but paused; looking at his expres-
sionless face. “Well, Alf,” she went on,
her voice sharper, “how about it?”
“How about what?”
“You and me.”
He laughed. “You turned that in your-
self. The Judge can settle the money part
you think so much of. You ought to have
said it was a meal-ticket you wanted.”
A gleam shone fugitively in her eyes.
“Then you don’t care?”
He laughed again. “Do I look it?” he
asked.
“Now look, Sally, and you, Alf,” Mrs.
Green put in; “you don’t want to let the
heat”
• Sally came softly across the room and
confronted Alf. “You don’t care even for
your son, the baby you’ve* never seen?”
But his gaze didn’t waver. “No.” The
bitter anger in his voice was cold and un-
dying. “I picked a bad ’un, and I’ll pay for
it. But I know what all the rest of it’s
worth now.”
The heat seamed to come growling into
the room oppressing and strangling the
minds in it. Sally’s face went suddenly
white, and her hands opened, and shut again.
“You’re just a cadger then, is that it? You
cadged a home from me and walked out of
it when you were sick of it.”
“Have it your own way. I didn’t put
you and your mother in quod, though you
ought to be there” ••
“I’m sorry I ever saw you,” she went on
as if he hadn’t spoken, “and I thank God
my son will never know the coward of a
father who deserted him.”
Mrs. Green stared at them aghast. “Now.
Sally,” she murmured, “you didn’t ought
to”
“I might have known”.... Alt’s voice
was heavy with scorn. Looking into Sally’s
white, infuriated face he laughed shortly once
more, and turned his back on her.
Into the tragic silence that followed a
sound whispered from far away. No more
than a stir in the suffocating air. it became
somehow a song half jubilant and half com-
forting, and still far away. Coming nearer,
it grew in volume, a volume filled with the
voices of release. Suddenly it swept down
upon the Domain, rocking the triumphant
trees in its passage, and roared into the city,
a great clean wind washing all the dirt
away.
Mrs. Green sat up. “Quick, Sally,” she
said, “the windows! Slip out to the kitchen,
my dear. And you, Alf, run up to the
best room. It’ll have the French windows
off the hinges in no time, let alone filling the
house with dust. Quick, quick”
But the southerly was quicker. It was in
the house, sweeping all the heat and oppres-
sion out of it, and flapping the doors and
windows in its mighty laughter. Sally and
Mrs. Green ran hither and thither shutting
it out while Alf struggled with the bal-
cony doors of the best room. In the end
they all met in this best room and looked at
each other, Mrs. Green chuckling breath-
lessly. Alf was standing by the window he
had managed to shut, looking down into the
street. He turned as Sally came in, and she
saw the half smile in his eyes before he
turned back.
“Gripes,” he said, his voice light and
young, “it’s a bosker night. Fresh and
clean as a whistle—you could walk for miles
on a night like this.” He lit a cigarette,
and stood watching the windy street for a
moment. You might think you were in th-'
country. . ..
Presently he glanced round at Sally’s
waiting eyes, seeing again that vision of her
on their wedding day. This kick in the
air was bosker. “What about fetching the
kid?” he asked, watching her face and its
sudden flush. “Let’s take him up Oxford-
street to have a look at the shops,” he
added gently.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
I
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
U QUEUR
' / <v//T) L
i.
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean , Soft and Mellou)
Shipped by
WM. GRANT & SONS. LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm of Scotch Whisky Distillers.
A wonderful
body builder
is always
fresh & pure
In 4 sizes
of el I Chemists & Stores
THE SILVER LINING.
BY-R. EXON BUTCHART.
IT'S going to be a real snorter, son. Half
an hour and it will be here.”
Old Adam Bray shivered slightly de-
spite the oppressive heat, and his sightless
eyes wandered out towards the eastern hori-
zon, where the banking clouds were slowly
creeping up as though in pursuit of the
westering sun. As if in confirmation of his
prophecy a breath of air, hot, oppressing,
vaguely menacing, stirred the fronds of the
solitary triad of palms beneath which we
were sitting.
The old man put his hand on my knee as
though for coYnfort and gazed out to the
ever-darkening line where sky and waters
met.
“There will be heavy hearts at sea to-
night,” lie said softly, and I guessed that
his mind was back once more in the days
when ho had piloted the old Alice Wynyard
through just such storms and fought the fury
of the tropic waters lashed to wrath. He
shook Ills head slowly. “Aye,” he nodded,
“the clouds are very heavy.”
“But there’s always a silver lining to
them,” I said, half-jokingly.
He nodded musingly. “Aye,” he said at
last. “Even to Barnaby,” and I knew that
he stirred to memory of yet another story of
the old days—stories from the unwritten
log of the Alice Wynyard ; stories of the days
when he had sailed God’s Own Waters, be-
fore he came ashore to dream away the
autumn of his life iii that perpetual dark-
ness which is the blind’s.
“Yes?” I coaxed, and held a lighted match
to the bowl of the old clay stumpy that he
had just finished filling.
“Yes,” he echoed, “even to Barnaby. Bar-
naby was a had egg. We picked him up at
Kapi-Kanang one trip to take the place of
a stoker, who had got himself into trouble
with Toti-mo, who ruled a little village a
few miles inland. From what I heard of it
Toti-mo for once was in the right; and,
besides, he gave our stoker decent burial.
Barnaby was loafing round the foreshore
when we learned that Sjornsen would not
be sailing with us again, and I offered him
the job.
“It was not six hours later that I re-
gretted having done so. There was nothing
that you could put your finger on, but I
could see from old Martin’s face —he was
my chief engineer—that things were not
going well down below. But he said nothing
that night at mess, and I was never one to
fight another’s battles for him —until I was
asked. During the next two days old Mart’s
face grew longer and longer, until finally, at
the end of a watch, he came up with a lump
on his forehead and stood looking at me in
reproachful silence.
“ ‘Mon,’ ho said at length, ‘ye can take
your choice o’ puttin’ that rotten lump o’
pig’s meat in chains or swappin’ him for
yin o’ your deckhands. Him and me will
no worruk together frae now to Doomsday!’
“Of course, I gathered straight away that
it was Barnaby he was referring to. I tried
to get out of him what had happened, but
he was .tighter than a clam. I guessed that
poor old Mart had somehow lost his prestige
down below. I asked him would he rather
that I put the fellow in irons or give him a
job on deck. There was a gleam in his eye
as he responded. ‘All dinna care a fash if
ye gi’e him a job on deck so long’s ye’ll let
me be aboot when he meets Gibby!’ ”
The old man beside chuckled softly.
“A nod w-as as good as a wink to me, son,
and I never did hold with the irons myself.
Once in them, a man never seems to get the
corrosion out of his soul. Besides, Gibbons,
my chief, was the finest scrapper I’d ever
met. But he nearly met his match in Bar-
naby.
“I put Gibby wise to things before he
came on watch, and I stayed on the bridge
myself so that I should be on hand when
the fun started. I didn’t have long to wait.
They had not been on deck half an hour
before Gibby picked on him. First from
the bridge and then, as that seemed to have
no effect, down on the deck itself. It was
a proper telling-off that Barnaby got, and
to my surprise he listened to it meekly.
But just as Gibby was turning on his heel to
come back to the bridge Barnaby let
fly and caught him a crack on the ear
that you could hear yards away. It
was a cowardly rotten attack, and it
caught Gibby unawares. He went
down and out to it.
“By the time I got down to them the others
had hold of Barnaby—the crew thought a lot
of Gibby, and they weren’t going to stand by
and see him manhandled without a chance —
and Gibby was just beginning to blink his
eyes. Any other man wduld have been
knocked out for an hour. But not Gibby!
He was on liis feet again before I’d decided
whether to clap Barnaby in the irons after
all or not.
“ ‘Stand back, lvir. Gibbons,’ I cried as I
saw him stiffen. ‘You’re not in a fit state
to deal with this coward just now.’ Gibby
saluted rigidly. To see the way that he
stood at attention no one would have guessed
that off the decks Gibby and I were pals
of ten years’ standing. ‘lf you will pardon
me, sir,’ he said —and liis voice was calm and
polite—‘l think I am. The fellow took me
unawares.’ He looked Barnaby over con-
temptuously. ‘You can let him go, lads,’
he said to the men who werb holding him.
Tie’s quite harmless if you haven’t got your
back to him.’ Well, that was the last straw
so far as Barnaby was concerned. Fortu-
nately they had not let him go or it would
have been the end of the story—and of
Gibby, too.
“I was worried to death about Gibby, and
wanted to put Barnaby in the irons then and
there. Gibby wouldn’t hear of it. ‘lf you
will excuse me, sir,’ he said again. ‘The man
has some good in him. I can turn him into
a passably useful hand with a little patience
and persuasion.’
“This time Gibby was ready for him,
blocking his swing, and then, using his last
ounce of strength, he hunched his shoulders and let fly.”
“ ‘But surely you are not fit yet, Mr.
Gibbons?’ I urged. ‘You Could scarcely ex-
pect to be, after that cowardly blow,’ and the
crew sided with me when I suggested that he
should wait half an hour to get properly on
his feet again.
“But Gibby was fighting mad despite the
gentle quietness of his voice. ‘lf I may
presume, sir,’ he said —and I could have
hugged him for it—‘my duty is to maintain
discipline and not to come bothering the
master to do it for me. And when there is
a breach of it, it’s my job to see that the
breach is closed again—on the spot. So, if
you have no objection, sir, I’ll just get on
with it.’
“Well, I couldn’t for the life of me resist
him, although. I knew it was a foolish thing
to do.
“It was a ding-dong go, son! Gibby
started off with ;i handicap, and Barnaby
wasn’t the type that anyone could afford to
concede anything to. However, we got a
ring of sorts formed, and I warned Barnaby
that my pistol wasn’t only for show —it was
to be a proper affair, with rounds and in-
tervals, and Queensberry rules.
“Barnaby was raging mad—partly at
least, I think, because of the dirty trick
he’d played Gibby; and Gibby was cold
with pain and fury. I’ve only seen him like
it one other time.
“It was a grudge fight if ever there was
one. At the end of three rounds there wasn’t
much left of either of them so far as their
faces were concerned. Bare knuckles are
butchery when two men like those get really
going. Every round after that I thought
would be the last, but neither could manage
to get the other fair and square, and the
thing dragged on for fourteen full rounds,
with the crew on tiptoe the whole time and
Gibby and Barnaby just two bloody wrecks.
It was mighty hard to tell one from the
other.
“When they came up for the fifteenth
round they both seemed to realise that it
was then or never. Barnaby staggered up
as soon as I called time and got over to
Gibby’s corner before Gibby was quite up. I
thought that was the end of it, but some-
how Gibby managed to get clear to the
centre. Barnaby followed him groggily, cur-
sing and swearing at him. ‘Stand up an’
fight, you—mother’s darlin’,’ he said. Gibby
tried to grin, but his lips were too thick
to move.
“Barnaby teetered about on his heels and
toes for a second, and then made another
rush. This time Gibby was ready for him,
blocked his swing, and then, using his last
ounce of strength, he hunched his shoulders
and let fly. Ordinarily it wouldn’t have
knocked .over an ailing cripple, but it was
all that was needed to finish Barnaby. He
didn’t so much as quiver while I counted
ten —and I counted mighty slowly too, so
that the crew wouldn’t have any excuse for
putting foolish notions into his head later
on. Not that I think they would have,
really. I think they were just as pleased
as I was about the result. Barnaby had
been no more popular in the fo’c’s’le than
he was with the bridge, and 1 they gave three
cheers for Gibby.
“Poor old Gibby tried to thank them. You
could tell that his lips were trying to smile
and he managed to get out ‘Thanks’ before
he nodded in a silly sort of fashion and
lay down beside Barnaby. He. had beaten
a knock out by seconds.”
The old man broke off and sat silent —
so silent that I could hear the-big watch in
my pocket ticking off the minutes. . The
clouds were all over the sky now, and it
was almost dark, although sundown wasn’t
due for another half-hour. But it’s like
that out here when trouble is brewing—
night comes on at noon if the Lords of the
Weather think that way about it.
Then, as a low rumble of thunder from
below the horizon sent its uneasy message
through the heavy air, the old man shivered
again, and went on:
“It was just such a day as this, son,
when the rest of it happened. We were
then eight days out from Kapi, and Gibby
and Barnaby had both come up on deck for
the first time the day before. It was won-
derful weather that we had had—until that
day. Simply perfect. And it is only in
God’s Own Waters that you can really get
the true idea of what perfect weather is.
But on that morning I got up feeling
livery and out of sorts. At least I put it
down to the liver until I got on the bridge;
then I knew there was another cause. And
1 didn't have to look at the barometer to
know that it was tumbling down hell for
leather.
“There was not a breath of air and the
ocean was like a sheet of glass—you felt
that if you dropped anything hard into it
it would splinter in all directions. It was
calm and peaceful, but one felt that, down
below the horizon, all Hell was gathering
itself to break loose. But it was not the
storm itself that was worrying me. The
old Alice had weathered too many to let
another one hold any menace. It was the
cargo that we were carrying. I had decided
at Kapi to risk a smooth passage, so we
were running heavily overladen, with the
forecastle deck top heavy with copra. It
was going to he touch and go for us —either
that or let the copra go overboard before
the storm broke.
“It is such a time that brings out the best
in people—if there were no troubles in life
there would be mighty little of pleasure or
human kindness, either. Old Mart had
sensed what was to come, for he called up to
me from below—and it was not his watch —
to tell me that he had a couple of knots in
reserve whenever I wanted them. And thank
ful I was to know it.”
The old man laid an impressive hand upon
my knee, and his sightless eyes peered into
mine.
, “Son,” he went on, with a shake of his
head, “there’s nothing worse terrifying in
all this world than to be sailing an ocean
like that. One feels that one is living in
a world of ghosts, and sailing on a phantom
sea. The crew seemed to feel it too, for
they were all on deck, and I think we
breathed a sigh of relief when the first cloud
slid over the horizon. Better the fires of
Hell than the mental agony of waiting for
them.
“In another twenty minutes the sky was
covered and there was no daylight left. Only
the awful silence and the gloom. One of
the men on deck laughed hysterically—and
we all jumped. Then they tried to sing,
but the words would not come. They broke
off and stood waiting. Gibby went down
amongst them and tried to rally them, but
it was hopeless—you know how superstitious
sailor folk are as well as I do. They were
just waiting, and shivering like so many
sheep who sense the coming of a Highland
storm.”
The old man paused a moment and the
rustle of the palm fronds overhead seemed
doubly ominous.
“It was about two bells in the afternoon
when it broke at last. One moment there
was the impassive silence —and the next
we were flat on the deck, half stunned and
with eyes aching from the sudden blinding-
flash. The old Alice staggered for a moment;
then, as the silence, returned, she steadied
on her course, and I remember getting to
my feet with a prayer of thankfulness for
our escape, for it seemed to me a miracle
that a thunderbolt could strike and do so
little damage. But a shout from Gibby
checked my joyfulness, and as I turned to-
wards the fo’c’s’le 1 saw a huge flame shoot
up. The lightning had fired the copra on the
fo’c’s’le deck!
“Gibby was already half-way up the com-
panion. ‘Come on, lads!’ he yelled. ‘Over-
board with it or we’re all dead men !’
“Not a man moved. If they had only
followed him the danger would have been
over in a minute or so—they could have got
the burning part clear. As it was, the
fire was gaining ground every minute and
Gibby was there alone!
“There was nothing for it but to get the
hoses going and I rang old Mart for all the
pressure he could spare. It meant, too, that
the steam we would be wanting for our steer-
age way when the storm broke was going
to be wasted just because a lot of cowards
willed it so.
Gibby was still up there alone. And I
could do nothing. He was my best friend;
yet I knew that if I went after him there
would be no one to carry on. I think I
(Continued on page 57.)


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital. . .. .. .. £5.000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,369,965
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928 ..£18,623,453
Directors: Sir Makk Siieldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood; H. R. Lysagiit, 0.8. E.;
George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector ; W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors:
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd, James Tuke.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Terra Mortgage Shares .. 374,197
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,609,655
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS ;‘ or “JS
periods and transacts all other usual Banking business.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, Gd. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SAFE with GUYATT’S /
The improved Guyatt
Elastic Truss is the latest
and most efficient Elastic
Truss on the market to-day.
It has been altered and
improved in several import-
ant points of construction,
until its strength, efficiency
and durability have been greatly increased. A careful
examination of this Truss will prove every claim
made for its advantage over others.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
GUYATT & CO.,
Expert Makers of Surgical Appliances,
Dept. 8., 257 a George St., Sydney.
Opposite Bridge Street.
THE OUT STANDING
MERITS OF A
GREAT PENCIL
si
I
'J:
m
i *
in
i i
«i
$ i
m i
i :
1/
I
Perfection is the attribute common to ali
VENUS PENCILS; each one is as good and
true to grade as the world’s largest
makers of quality pencils can achieve.
V!
ENUS
PENCILS
17 Blacklead Degrees sd. each, 4/9 per doz., Super
Copying (Medium& Hard) 6d. each, 5 h per dozen,
Venus Copying 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
“IT’S THE LEAD INSIDE
MAKES THE VENUS GLIDE”
Shipping, etc.
From
Sydney to Vancouver
Via
Suva and Honolulu
Like the multi-colored stream-
ers of farewell, days aboard
a Union Company Steamer are
gay and ever varied.
Between Ports of many
Pleasures strung lightly across
the Pacific, travellers enjoy the
refreshment of adventure,
peace and comfort.
Visit Pacific Isles by the
CA NA Dl AN-A US TRA LA SI A N
LINE
Union Steam Ship Company,
247 George Street, Sydney;
William Street, Melbourne.
lIIUIUK
I
WtlfJ*
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by All Steamship Lines.
Choice of Any Route. Without Extra Charge.
From AUSTRALIA to
ENGLAND
FRANCE
ITALY
GERMANY
AMERICA
CANADA
MEXICO
AFRICA
JAPAN
EGYPT
INDIA
CHINA
Also attractive tours to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji, etc.
BUSINESS TRIPS. PLEASURE CRUISES.
AUSTRALIA TO
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East”)
.Monthly sailings maintained by the popu-
lar steamers “MARELLA” and “MALA-
BAR ’ from Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane, via
Queensland Ports,
Torres Strait,
Darwin, etc.
For Reservations and
Information apply: —
sdf
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. A„d .11 Branch Office,.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 18X7.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE LIABILITY
ƒd
ďfs
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Directors:
Thomas Bucklarid, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faittifull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkine'r, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 3.
518 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan Esq.:
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G. ’
--General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
fdsdf
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR! MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports ; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf port-:
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no cargo for Mackay),
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg apd Gladstone, and
at Townsville for outports).
KANOWNA
BOMBALA
(Bris. only).
ORMISTON
BOMBALA
(Bris. only),
CANBERRA
BOMBALA
(Bris. only).
ORUNGAL
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kemblaßlg.,
58 Margaret St.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kemblaßlg.,
58 Margaret St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kemblaßlg.,
58 Margaret St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
{“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. ) Jolnt
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.j AgentB
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons. Tons.
BALRANALD.. 13,100 I BELTANA .. 11,100
BARRABOOL. . 13,100 ) BENALLA . . 11,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100 | BORDA 11,100
BARADINE . . 13,100 I BER'RIMA .. 11,100
BENDIGO .. 13,100 |
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON, LTD.,
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHAUUIS HOUSE.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Huddart ParkerLisi
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice verta.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hoban
and vice versa as per daily' papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAItT PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals v Ith every subject of
interest to women.


Signori na Toti Dal Monte,
the Famous Prima Donna, Praises
Siynorina
TOTI
DAL MOSTF.
the Famous
Soap —
Rexona
Siynorina TOT l DAL MONTE, the
famous Prim a Donna, uses llexona
Soup and -writes vs as follows;
“Since my first visit to Aus-
tralia I have used your famous
Rexona Soap, and think it is just
wonderful for the skin and hair.
tue vfj£&<ena §oop
Ctuux&i iQeautytc Skin andflail
r»^si±£n.s
of them contain free alkali,
which tends to dry the skin
and destroy the delicate texture
Even the best of such soaps can
only cleanse —they cannot heal
and protect the skin.
Rexona Soap contains the same
soothing, healing, antiseptic balms
as Rexona the Rapid Healer, the
value of which in the treatment
of ’, skin affections is known
throughout the world. Simply
use Rexona Skin and Facial Soap
regularly once, or twice a day
and see if it does not quickly
soothe and cleanse the pores,
lessen the tendency to pimples,
and leave the complexion clear,
fresh and velvety.
"Rexona Soap
rTTffO*.
K
la**
•Ml**
~ V-',.'
m
wmm
Mailed to you the
day dieyane mad
fjfe famous Red. Box of GkocolsdeS^
osh free lo any
'address in QsstraLia
mm
(jp-ATONj
PHICES
3f 5/6 , 6 1 , 10/-, 124,
20/-6LrxoL3O4
HILLITRS
CHOCdLATE^
S£ND_FOR. CATALOGUE ILLUSTRATED WITH REPRODUCTIONS'OF OUR. CONFECTIONERY IN COLOURS
162-166 Pitt Street
SYDNEY
••ried as I stood there on the bridge while
the hoses slowly filled with water.
“Then what I had been fearing all along
took place. Gibby’s clothes caught fire! My
God, I couldn't stand that. But by the
time I got a foot on the deck I saw a figure
disappear into the smoke that hung low over
the fo'c's'le companion. Someone else had
the sense to man a hose as the full pressure
started to come through, and the jet cleared
a passage through the smoke so that we could
see a man stagger down the companion carry-
ing Gibby on his shoulder. The man was
Barnaby!”
The old man shook his' head slowly.
“I couldn’t stop him from going back,
either, son. He just dumped Gibby on the
deck near me, snatched the hose out of the
men’s hands and went back with it to the
fo’c’s’le. It didn’t seem that there was
a chance for him. No man could live
five minutes in the Hell that was blazing
there then. And by all the laws of man
the Alice was a goner, too. The coamings
on the for’ard hatch were blazing, and the
copra was spewing sparks and masses of flame
all over ns.
“An’ then the Master Pilot took a trick
at the wheel.”
The old man nodded confidently.
“It must have been Him that sent the
rain first —it fell like an avalanche and the
fire was out before the wind came, every
last spark of it. After that, for more hours
than I like to think of, it was Hell.
“It was just one bell before midnight when
I at last left what was standing of the
bridge, and started to take stoc
damage. , , b - ; n b i s
“Gibby came first. .* ““ con _
bunk more or less reco' burne d His
setousness went, bu -f When I
first w°rj w | r £ , R-irmbv so far,
told him that I kadat s „ v __j to i f ]
Gibby bustled me oft - ‘ •■ .
you that oft watch we weie like
“When I got down to the fo c s le I f*und
that they had managed t< « ‘ .• , s +.
bis bunk and the bos 11 l' w j tb
he could for him, in tlic ciicumst.uc .;
carron oil; but it was going to be many a
long day before the man would walk a ß ai .
“He seemed to recognise me as 1
looking down at him, , ,
“ ‘Barnaby, I said, I.e got 1 7
for saving the ship,
“That was as far as i got.
you and your s n ? T '
from underneath the bandages. I woulttn
care a it yon were all at tl
bottom now. Am* me too. '' ’.., ,
Chief I was saving. He sa m. . » •
he added, with a sudden change
beat me once fair and square, and I wasn t
going to let him beat me again,
The old man rose from his chair, and as
I took his arm to guide lnm home, s • »
less eyes were on the angry ciouas.
“Barnaby didn t reform or anything, jon,
he finished with a whimsical smile. J-nej
don’t in real life. Not bad eggs 1 . -
aby. He was as full of evil as those clouds.
But still I think I glimpsed a silver lining
shining through.”
An Emigrant’s Voyage.
REGINALD 'WHEELER'S entertaining account of his voyage to Australia in an
immigrant ship To years ago.
HAVING partaken of a meal of poorer
quality, I am sure, than that sup
plied in any Union Workhouse, I sat
on my baggage in the evening of February
14, 1855, in the great barn-like structure
at Southampton, to review the circum-
stances that found me among a motley col-
lection of emigrants bound for Sydney.
Three weeks before I had been n law-
clerk, and had paid my fortnightly visit to
Nine Elms to court my beautiful Anne
Jeeves. But she had gone. To my dismay
I had learnt that her uncle and guardian
had been offered a position as a quarry-
master at Sydney, and that he had hur-
riedly departed with Anne. And so I had
closed my few affairs, and, after an annoy-
ing round of seeing officials, signing papers
and answering questions, I at last found
myself here as an approved emigrant.
One other was courting Anne —the ras-
cally Philip Idol, known to me as a card-
sharper, racecourse tout and! worse, but
whose polished manner so deceived every-
one that I am sure his court would have
succeeded had Anne not been so hurriedly
removed from his attentions. And then I
felt a tap on my shoulder, and, looking up,
I saw the face of Philip Idol! He simply
smiled and passed on, but that smile spoke
volumes to me. So 1 retired to my miser-
able flock pallet to shiver beneath the
single blanket provided. Sleep was impos-
sible, for, apart from the haunting face of
my enemy, the night was made miserable
by the bitter cold and the frequent heart-
broken sobbing of an emigrant who was
realising the agony of a parting.
We arose to the morning of the 15tli and
the day of embarkation; and a very poor
breakfast was followed by a great confu-
sion, we being sent from here to there, as the
harried officials issued their orders and
counter-orders. But at last we were aboard
the good ship Constitution; and here the
chaos of the shore was followed by. a calm
efficiency as the ship's officers received us,
and, with great courtesy to the ladies and
pinching of cheeks of the little ones, we
were taken below to the big mess-deck sur-
rounded by berths. Once our baggage was
placed on the berths allotted to us we were
thankful to hurry to the deck again, for
the ship had been carrying guano, and the
stench below was almost unbearable.
On deck we tried to make ourselves
familiar with our surroundings, for many
of us had never seen the sea before. The
men strolled about examining the ship’s
fittings and asking questions of the officers
that sent those good fellows into roars
of hearty laughter, while the children peered
over the side in the hope of seeing a whale.
I learnt now that our number comprised
78 married couples, 33 single women, 66
single men and 118 children.
We were much heartened by the good
dinner provided; and then at four o’clock
a tug came for us, and with a great thresh-
ing of her paddle-wheels she launched us
on the mighty ocean, where we set our sails
and started for the land that flowed with
milk and honey.
Most of the emigrants suffered severely
from seasickness; but as this improved we
all expressed our satisfaction that the many
warnings of the perils of the sea did not
seem to be so necessary, after all. But
this sense of safety was soon t.o be badly
shaken, for on the evening of Sunday, the
18th, the waters began to swell into mighty
waves that made our ship toss and roll like
a thing demented; and the wind rose to a
howling gale. The officers came below to
try to allay the emigrants’ fears; but this
proved to be a hopeless task, and as. the
storm grew worse panic set in. A single
light was left, and I ,was ordered to stand
with a bucket of water to protect this.
Finally, the officers drew pistols from their
pickets to prevent the panic-stricken emi-
grants from rushing to their death# on
deck while the sailors battened us down.
No pen could describe the terrible plight
of the emigrants as the ship plunged and
rolled. The howling of the wind, the din
of the eating utensils being flung from here
to there, and the ripping and splintering of
the woodwork could not drown the awful
screaming of the women, the groans of the-
injured and the pitiful sobbing of the many
wiio clung together and wished each other
good-bye, or begged for more light to tend
their loved ones’ hurts.
Throughout that awful night Philip Idol
seemed to be a superman. With his pointed
black beard, and the flaps of his poacher’s
cap turned up. he looked 1 singularly the part
of the devil in human form I knew him to be.
Yet lie stumbled and sprawled about the
hell that was once our mess deck, flinging
the sobbing men aside with contempt, and
carrying women and children to theiir
berths and tying them there with bedding
he tore into strips. Then with more strips,
mostly made from underclothing, he
struggled about, often on liis hands and
knees, to attend to the maimed, seizing
pieces of broken tables and forms to splint
broken bones and twisted joints. No sur-
geon on tlie field of battle ever worked more
gallantly than Philip Idol did that night.
With the dawn tlie storm abated, the
coverings that imprisoned us were removed,
and all who were able hurried to the deck
for fresh air. Here a great work of repair-
ing was going on, for our ship presented
as sorry a sight as did her emigrants. Many
of these had by now been attended to by
our surgeon, Mr. Cummings, and they
appeared on the deck with arms in slings
and limping, or bandaged heads and bruised
faces. Throughout that day Philip Idol and
his gallantry was the one topic of conversa-
tion. Captain Trader thanked him, and
everywhere he was hailed as a hero; and
he made the most of it, especially with the
ladies to whom lie had evidently confided
his mission. My blood boiled as from dif-
ferent groups of chatterers I heard: ' She
is named Anne Jeeves.”
The sailors now became very despondent
because big sharks were following us; this,
they said, foreboded evil. The officers dis-
counted this by saying the monsters were
attracted by the powerful smell of the
guano; yet there seemed to be grounds for
the sailors’ fears, because accidents became
very frequent, the little ones began to lose
their bloom, and two of them died on the
24 th.
The trip was now becoming very tire-
some, and the emigrants were very de-
pressed ; so Captain Trader moved among
them and arranged dances on the poop-
deck, for which I and others played the
fiddle. Thus, with the captain’s cheery
presence, even the drudgery of the compul-
sory washing-days on deck became again a
pleasure. ,
The 7th of March was the hottest day
any of us had known, so our baggage was
brought from the hold that we might use
our summer clothing. The pleasure of this
was, however, spoiled by the news that an-
other child had died. Then a great panic
set in among the emigrants, for we had
learnt that the child had died of the small-
pox, and practically all of us discovered
while changing into the summer clothing
that we were covered with a rash. Ihe
surgeon assured us that this was a disease
called the prickly heat that would dis-
appear in cooler climes; nevertheless so
great was the fear that the small-pox might
spread among us that the captain was
asked to arrange a service to seek the inter-
vention of Providence. This was arranged
for Sunday, the 11th, but it was not a suc-
cess, inasmuch as while the service was
proceeding a ship appeared on the horizon,
and the rumor quickly spread that she was
a Russian who might sink us l with her can-
non once she was within range. She proved,
in fact, to be the Gertrude, bound for Mel-
bourne with emigrants, and the sight of the
people on her deck, and the knowledge that
we had company on this seemingly boundless
ocean, greatly heartened us. Then, on the
13th, we ran close to the Alfred the Great
returning home from Bombay; and we were
overjoyed when we learnt that, as we
would be becalmed with her for some time,
a boat would take letters to her for delivery
in England.
We now made good speed to cross the Line
on the 16th. But the small-pox seemed to
be gaining a hold, and the surgeon admitted
that the position was serious and would
be more so if the officers and crew con-
tracted it. In the midst of this depression
another ship appeared and signalled us to
stop, and now we were sure she was a Rus-
sian; but she proved to be the Colgrave,
requiring assistance, as most of her crew
were affected with frost-bitten feet. Our
surgeon went on board her, but he returned
to say that, as he could not perform the
amputations alone, the unfortunate fellows
would all probably die before reaching Eng-
land.
On the 23rd another man died from the
small-pox, and we were unable to commit
him to the deep as we ran into another
had storm, and everyone feared that our
terrible experience in the Bay of Biscay
might be repeated. But it was not as bad
(Continued on next page.)


NEXT WEEK
Anstruther’s Spear.
One of the pioneers of the
Mallee tells this thrilling tale
of his 70-year-old experiences.
Anstruther was a stockman;
the spear was the spear of
Goliath, the head of the war-
like tribe of that neighborhood.
It is a great story told with
beautiful simplicity.
AND OTHERS.
Your New Car—
a 200,000-Mile Car
or a 30,000-Mile Car?
You can make it
either one!
Improper lubrication
and cheap “grease” will
rush it to an early death.
Proper lubrication will
keep it trouble-free in-
definitely. The choice is
up to you.
Tabulated statements
from thousands of gar-
ages and repair stations
show —80 % of all repair
bills are due to one thing
—improper lubrication.
An improperly lubricated car soon
begins to squav/k and rattle. Then
burning friction eats out bearings
and gears. At the end of 30,000 miles
the car is a wreck.
A properly lubricated car avoids all
this. Runs smoothly as new, is quiet,
avoids most repair bills. At 100,000
miles it can still be in good condition.
A Lubricating System Tested
on 15,000,000 Cars
A high pressure system of chassis
lubrication has been perfected to
help you get the most from your car.
The Alemite system—used on 15 -
000,000 cars today.
WmM
!
mm
Your Car Can Be A lemite*
equipped at Small Cost
If your car is already equipped with
this money-saving system, use it
every 500 miles and you’ll cut the
cost of operating your car anywhere
from a half-penny to a penny half-
penny a mile.
If your car is not so equipped, the
installation of Alemite fittings can
be made quickly and at a surprisingly
low cost. A fitting costing only a few
pennies will save a bearing worth
many pounds. The Bassick Manu-
facturing Company, Division of
Stewart-Warner, Chicago, U. S. A.
The Alemite Fittings
Modern dust-proof Alemite and
Aleinite-Zerlc fittings for chassis
bearings. Lubricant is shot
through them under high pres-
sure to the heart of the bearing.
Old grease and grit thus forced
out —clean new lubricant sur-
rounds the entire bearing.
Alemite Compressors
To conform to fittings, com-
pressors come in two styles—
Alemite and Alemite-Zerk. The
Alemite Compressor forces lu-
bricant through bearing by
twisting handle—the Alemite-
Zerk gun” by a simple thrust-
ing motion.
The Alemite-ed Bearing
Out-open view of lubricated
bearing. Note how lubricant
under pressure forces way en-
tirely through bearing.
No. 832.
High Pressure Lubrication
Backache?
Stiff Joints?
Rheumatism?
Here’s Quick Relief!
It doesn’t matter how severely you
suffer ageing aches, pains, and con-
sequent weak, worn-out spells, a few
doses of Harrison’s Pills will make
a wonderful improvement in your
health; and one bottle will convince
you there is nothing to equal them
for renewing healthy activity dn
men and women who are beginning
to feel their years. Hundreds of
genuine testimonials. One user
writes: “I got a bottle of Harrison’s
Pills about a month ago and it was
marvellous the good they did me.”—
M.H., Mt. Perry.
Another says: “I would have tried
Harrison’s Pills long ago but had
been disappointed with so many
other things. My sister gave me
some to try three weeks ago, and
I must say the pills are wonderful.
I am now quite free from rheumatic
pains which have bothered me for
years.”—M.T., Sydney.
Another writes: “My husband has
had kidney trouble for past 12
months; he has tried other pills
but got no relief and always in pain.
On Thursday last he bought a
bottle of Harrison’s Pills and he
says they are wonderful. Since
Friday night his back has been
splendid—it has not pained at all.
He cannot make out why they have
cured him so quick.”—Mrs. E.J.,
Hurlstone Park.
Remember: If YOU want to feel
years younger quickly and safely
without a single ache or pain—this
is the signed remedy of a London
doctor. Try it! Any chemist can
supply you. Satisfaction within 3
days, or money back guaranteed f
Harrison's
Backache
& Bladder
Pills
REMOVE THE CAUSE OF ACHES AND PAINS !
Of All Chemist <■ and Stores. Trial Size 2/-. Medium' Size 3/-. Economy Size. 5/-
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN - ’ takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
p
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY. England
Registered Trade-mark.
HRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives :
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
ƒsd
No. 1369.
as that, though everyone was very fright-
ened and seasick.
All this time Philip Idol had been very
courteous to me and often tried to get me by
myself; but he was still such a hero that
our attempt at conversation was always
interrupted by one or more of his admirers.
It was evident that lie was very concerned
about me, not knowing whether or not I
was going to Sydney by arrangement with
Anne. Had lie known it, I was a good deal
more concerned about him, for I knew his
dashing ways, and I often felt ill with appre-
hension that I might lose Anne to him after
all.
The emigrants’ tempers were being sorely
tried now with the monotony of the trip,
the terrific heat, and the fact that the food
was becoming very poor. It was mainly
owing to the bad food that on April Pools’
Day a number of the single women became
so insulting and abusive that the officers
were greatly concerned. Rioting among
them continued until Philip Idol was asked
to take a hand. After a conversation with
the captain, lie invited the women to accom-
pany him to their quarters, where he would
address them, and they eagerly trooped after
him. Address them lie did, and with such
good effect that he quite diverted their atten-
tion from the fact that the sailors were
busy erecting barricades. When these were
in place Idol slipped out. # “You will all re-
main imprisoned here,” lie informed them,
“and your diet will be biscuits and water,
until each one apologises to the captain and
promises to be of good behavior for the rest
of the voyage.” Some of the prisoners re-
plied in such terms that the children had to
be hastily removed from the neighborhood.
On the next day, to make matters worse, the
single men rioted because the food served
for breakfast was so poor that they could
not eat it. Again it was Philip Idol who
came to the rescue, and so tactfully did he
handle the situation that the captain ordered
an extra biscuit to be served, and promised
that a pig would be brought from the sty
on the poop deck and killed for us. When
this news was conveyed to the imprisoned
single women they promptly asked for their
release, and tendered the apologies and pro-
mises that gave them their freedom. That
afternoon the pig was killed and dressed
amid scenes of great merriment, with Idol
as the chief actor, for, needless to say. he
was given the honor of “sticking the pig.”
On Good Friday it was so cold that we
begged to be given our winter clothing
again; and, indeed, the request was quite
in order, for we were now approaching great
icebergs. When our baggage was brought
from the hold we were greatly distressed to
find that our possessions were so affected
with mildew that there were few of us who
did not suffer great loss.
Until Easter Monday we were among ice-
bergs so numerous that our ship was in great
danger, and the emigrants were very fright-
ened. At last, however, we left the bergs
and set all sail to make up lost time. But
at nine o’clock that night a terrible hurri-
cane caught us; it came as a thunderclap,
ripping our sails to shreds, and causing our
ship to toss and roll in such a crazy fashion
that we were pitched from our berths. The
fury of this storm lasted for two days, and
we could not keep our feet, and were served
only with biscuits and water. When at last
the sea became calm again we found we
were back among the icebergs, and still
6800 miles from Sydney. Our tempers were
so sorely tried that we were all very de-
pressed, and many of the women would do
nothing but sit about and cry. So the cap-
tain ordered that another pig should be
killed, and this diversion made a very pleas-
ant afternoon.
But our spirits were quickly subdued again,
for at tea time we were suddenly hurled
from our seats —we were caught in another
terrible hurricane. This lasted for another
two days, during which time we were bat-
tened down and our plight was indescribable.
We had only biscuits to eat; our berths were
torn from the walls and wrecked, as were
all our tables and forms; and the water-
cocks were broken so that our quarters were
flooded. The list of injured was a big one,
and some of the cases were very serious.
Even when the storm had subsided we were
made to stay below for another two days,
as the wind continued to be so boisterous that
it was not safe to go on deck, where the
sailors- clung to long ropes that they might
move about.
Our misfortunes were now preying on all
minds; the food was very poor and scanty,
we were longing for rest, and the small-pox
was taking a more serious hold and included
Philip Idol in its grip. Our berths and mess
tables were not repaired until the 19th, and
then we retired hoping to at least get some
sleep. But even this was denied us, for at
midnight we ran into another storm. Men
and women alike broke down and cried, and
in the terrific din of ripping woodwork and
crashing eating utensils one man went mad.
His screams were heart-rending; we had
great difficulty in tying him to the deck,
and he had injured several of us before it
was accomplished. And there he had to lie
till midday, for though the storm lasted
only four hours, the surgeon was too busy to
come below, his most serious case being the
man at the wheel who had had both his
legs and many of his ribs broken.
Until the 25tli the sea continued to be
very rough; and on this day a woman and
two children died from the small-pox. The
emigrants were now very mutinous and
were quarrelling among themselves, and the
ship’s officers were subjected to such abuse
from those who foolishly blamed them for
our misfortunes that an outbreak of violence
seemed to be certain, and the officers armed
themselves with pistols. But on the next
day the sea became calm and the weather was
glorious, and this greatly heartened the emi-
grants, who ceased quarrelling, and all danger
of a riot was dispelled by the appearance
of Philip Idol from his sick bed. On this
day, too, we had our first glimpse of the
coast of Australia; so, despite the ravages
of the small-pox and the bad food, we all
began to feel much happier.
On Sunday we sighted the Gertrude again,
and we sailed with her until she left us to
go into Melbourne on the 18th. On the
22nd we could see the Macquarie Lighthouse
at Sydney, and when this news was conveyed
to the small-pox patients it did them more
good than a meal of fresh meat. Imagine
then how we felt when our ship was turned
away to sea, and we learned that the chief
mate had the small-pox and that we would
stay at sea until lie was better, since the
captain wished to return to England at once
and could not allow the mate to be sent to
quarantine. We did not sight land again
until Sunday, the 27th, when we again saw
the Sydney Heads and sailed in, only to find
that, while we were to be free of the imprison-
ment of the ship, we were to become
prisoners on shore. Still, our confinement in
quarantine was not as irksome as that on
the ship, for we had spacious grounds to
wander in, and the food was fairly good.
We were placed on our honor not to leave
the quarantine area, the punishment for this
and for other forms of misbehavior being
a further period of confinement; and I think
all of us felt that a death sentence would be
easier to bear than this. During this time
we were a happy band, and a number of the
men employed themselves by erecting the
monument that to this day stands on North
Head to the memory of the voyage.
1 was at a loss to know why I seemed to
continually incur the displeasure of the
officials. I was questioned about little hap-
penings, and once I was taken to the office
and accused of a theft and my baggage was
searched. The very day before we were due
to leave quarantine I was again taken to
the office and was accused of lurking in the
vicinity of the single- women’s quarters at
night, and was informed that if I could not
prove my innocence my discharge would be
withheld for a week. Fortunately one of the
officials readily testified that at the times
1 was supposed to have committed the
offence, I was in his quarters giving him
lessons on the fiddle. 1 thereon demanded
an explanation of the origin of the charge,
and learned that Philip Idol was the in-
former, as he had been on all the previous
charges. He was then called to the office,
and when lie arrived and saw that he was
unmasked his manner became so insolent
that the officials were very angry, and in
formed him that they would consider with-
drawing his permit to leave on the morrow.
This threat was responsible for Philip Idol
breaking his parole that evening; he took
his baggage to a small boat lying at the
jetty, and began to row himself to Sydney.
Though he had gone a long way before an-
other boat set off, he was captured and for
his offence was sentenced to remain in
quarantine another week.
The next morning a ferry-boat came for
us, and I am sure no happier cargo has ever
been carried across the harbor. It was a
band of singing, laughing and dancing emi-
grants who were landed at Circular Quay,
where happy meetings and reunions brought
tears to many eyes.
At first lonely and forlorn, I waited on
the wharf not knowing what to do; but I
was soon delighted to meet an old friend
who had emigrated some months before. We
spent much time in handshaking and talking
against each other before I could put the
question my lips were burning to ask.
“Do you know the whereabouts of Anne
Jeeves, of Nine Elms?” I at last managed to
ask.
My friend was very surprised at my ques-
tion at first, and then burst into hearty
laughter.
“Indeed I do,” he replied, “and within an
hour you will be sitting at table with her,
eating the best dinner you have ever had,
and prepared by her own hands. For you
must know,” he concluded, “that Anne did
me the honor to become my wife last Satur-
day !”
Kowmong Hollow.
When the morn shines bright,
Pleasant ’tis to follow
Cattle tracks that stray
Through the Kowmong Hollow;
For who sojourns there,
Soothed by breezes kind,
From the clutch of Care
Sure release shall find.
Mosses underfoot,
And above him swaying
Fronds agleam with dew.
As lie goes a-straying:
Mountain walls in view,
Purple shadows flinging
Over slopes of green,
He shall journey singing.
Following the tracks
Made by mountain cattle,
Ever he shall hear
Hidden streams that prattle,
Prattle to themselves
As they stray by turns
Over rocky shelves,
Under arching ferns.
When the morn shines bright,
Pleasant ’tis to follow
Cattle tracks that stray
Through the Kowmong Hollow;
For who wanders where
To-and-fro they wind,
From the clutch of Care
Sweet release shall find.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


I
m
WO-M
I
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to sujt requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE GO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOiiMlSS « CHUBCH, Brisbane. fONf.flßft WFVT M C WAIFS
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featheraton Street, Wellington. bUWUUKU WEM, N. d. fl ALKd
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs, EI.DEB, SMITH & CO., FTJD., Adelaide. S.A,
3
14j45 Lp, 6-Cyl. Tourer
THE
|feJNVINCIBL§
■n>
□
Jit
EXTREME flexibility with top gear.
performance of 3 to 60 m.p.h.
Four-speed gear box, right hand
change, l6w gear axle ratio necessi-
tating change of gear on steepest
hills only. Built for; the Britisher
overseas, who wants a suitable high-
class British car at the right price.
Full particulars from
Designed for Over-
seas conditions with
4 ft. 8 in. track, in.
ground clearance,
special springing,
special radiator and
fan to ensure perfect
performance on the
roughest roads or
tracks, and in the
hottest climates. Ex-
perts and owners all
over the world con-
firm that in the 14/45
six-cylinder model
we have the finest
Talbot Car that has
ever been produced.
SYDNEY:
Buckle Motors, Ltd.,
187-189 William Street.
ADELAIDE:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street.
Talbot Distributors Pty.,Ltd.,
478 Elizabeth Street.
PERTH:
Arthur Bales, Ltd.,
367 Murray Street.
EXTRA durability and longer
service are as traditionally
Kermath features as its depend*
able and economical operation.
Install a Kermath Marine En-
gine. It will successfully over-
come the most trying conditions
with effortless ease—“A Kermath
always runs.”
All parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.
C 3 to iso H.
l to 6 cylinders |
4-cycle Engines Ju
HALL BROS., Ltd.
Careening Cove
(Foot of Willoughby St.)
Milson’s Point
North Sidney, N. S. W
Kermath Manufacturing CoM
Detroit, Mich., U. S. A. *
Cable Address— Kermath
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
AN IDEAL WINTER HOME. The most sheltered spot on the Harbor.
Incomparable for Comfort. Excellent Cuisine and Service. Private Beach
and Amphitheatre Baths. Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4£ Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast if required. Luncheons, Afternoon Teas, Dinners.
Delightful 25-minutes 1 trip from City by Ferry or Motor. '
p. RESERVATIONS: Y 3012, 4 Linos.
dfs
They have proved themselves to be
a preparation of merit. People show
their appreciation by continuing to
rely solely on their remarkable cura-
tive and tonic qualities. No other
medicine is taken—-none is needed.
Beecham’s have been tried and are
now trusted to perform what is
claimed for them. They never fail.
Buy a box to-day.
m
Beechani’s Pills cleanse the
bowels, tone stomach, stimu-
late liver, remove bile & make
you conscious of the fact that
every organ of the system is
healthfully
performing
its allotted
function
viS
• V
“IXL” Carbide
When forwarding your next order for Carbide
insist on being supplied with
“IXL” Brand.
It is manufactured in Australia
and is guaranteed by the manufacturers to be
at least equal to the British Acetylene
Association standard quality.
When using “IXL” Brand you are helping an
all-Australian industry to flourish.
If unable to obtain from your supplier
write direct to the undersigned:
H. Jones & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
HOBART, TASMANIA, Sole Distributing Agents
For
The Australian Commonwealth Carbide Co., Ltd.,
Electrona, Tasmania.
6
ftW, w
o'
A
f
0
a*
o°
6>
6
v
s®
s®
6
3
w®;
S'
t.V#
■*' ..••* «<
•*’** .***&
.'-+SfcsP‘
a ° .* 0» V VY>O
' -•* -•••c*\<>


/
/
\
✓
\
-N.
>
V
Specifications
Model “sa”
52 and more unvarying
miles per hour.
Aluminum alloy pistons.
Air cleanser.
Impulse neutraliser.
Full-sized bodies of finest con-
structiongiving amplecapacity
for adult passengers.
A smoothness no other low-
priced car can approach.
Low sweeping stream-lines.
Bullet type headlamps.
Saddle spring seat cushions pro-
viding comfort heretofore found
in cars of much higher price.
Jndirectly-lightedinstrument panel.
Handsome steering wheel easily
adjustable to size and height of
the driver.
Maximum driving vision be-
cause of narrow corner pil-
lars and header board.
Cadet visor on closed cars.
Fedco theft-proof number-
ing system.
Fine mohair upholstering
in closed, and leather in
open models.
Vertical ventilating wind-
screen on closed models.
Lower and new type
compact hood with jack-
knife fold to enhance
stream-line effect.
New colour blending!
by the very pioneer
of the modern colon
trend in motor cars.
f
Ck rys ler Lea As llt
Quality - Performance -Value
-u nusual lo w p rices
Chrysler quality, Chrysler performance, Chrysler
long-life can be yours today at phenomenal low
prices. Chrysler’s undeviating policy of unusual
value-giving was never better exemplified.
These low prices are the direct result of a great and
growing public demand that only volume produc-
tion has been able to satisfy.
This quantity output, achieved through Chrysler’s
unique manufacturing methods that promote econ-
omies and at the same time maintain Chrysler
quality unchanged, in turn assures consistently
lower prices and greater values for the public.
Study the specifications listed here. See the cars
and ask for a demonstration. You will then con-
vince yourself that Chrysler, which never has
built to a price, is yet able through a record-
breaking demand to offer its product at prices
that emphasise Chrysler’s leadership in values.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street , Sydney*
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne,
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaida,
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth,
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington
H
52
is
s-'i;
