

«
cv * * *
ripmg m
siiil
*■!
1 ■
Honouring
Quality
... W .-»■
.
m
m
r-s
m
I
x-;--
v
0*
jgjpp^
i .. ; . • .*• ‘ :
' .'.vv"^
-,n’W'
Vp» -
“SOUNDING THE PRAISES
n
of “ KING GEORGE IV.” is quite the everyday compliment from its patrons. To
them, only the best is good enough, and they know it will reflect on their good taste in
the choice of whisky by recommending “ KING GEORGE IV.” to any friends who
may still be among the uninitiated. Concisely, the reason for this loyalty is— The Rare
Quality— unequalled in any market of the world and rigourously maintained. The huge
stocks held in reserve ensure this high standard being safeguarded throughout the years.
THE DISTILLERS AGENCY LTD.. DISTILLERS, EDINBURGH.
Enjoy satisfaction—have quality,
purity and maturity by ordering-
Sccnys IV
99
(gold label)
The Bulletin
e
Vol. 49.—N0. 2526.
Wednesday, July 11, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Kewsgtper.


"THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
1928 is now ready, and will be for
warded with full particulars and terms on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
When strangers appeal to help or to heal,
Have a heart and respond to the call;
Though now you be well, you never can tell
When some ill to yourself may befall.
Each Kindness you show its harvest will grow,
And some Kindness from others assure—
For cough or for cold there's Kindness worth gold
In Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—A iivt.
Learn
Waiting
This BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
..... *•...........
Men of Discernment look for the Best
And the BEST in Life
Assurance is undoubtedly
c A.M.P. SOCIETY
Funds over £68,000,000. Annual Income, £10,500,000
All classes of Life Assurance business transacted.
NO Shareholders-—all surpluses divided annually
amongst 700,000 participating members.
OVER THREE MILLION POUNDS in Cash distributed
as Bonuses for year 1927.
WRITE FOR PROSPECTUS.
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
H. W. APPERLY,
General Manager.
JO
13
“10
IS
10
They who wear Elgin
have both admiring eyes and the
correct time upon their wrists.
Your ELGIN Watch, whether of the
wristlet or vest pocket variety, is both
accurate and beautiful.
For many years ELGIN has been re-
garded as the world’s standard for
watch integrity.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
Eolgin
THEWCH WORD FdR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
y/ur Jrade Mark
df
in the Watch Ccz?e
THE MARK OF ,
A GOOD RAZOI(
Aak any man you know who use* a PLUM—
ask him if he doesn't think it the best
Razor he has ever used. Hear him
answer, "Why, rather!"
THE i
PLUM
sd
fsd
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT IN
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
12/6^.
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
AFRAID OF FOOD.
Sufferers from indigestion very often become faddists as regards their food, and fiod
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson’s Eumee-
thol Jujubes correct acidity of the stomach, and their antiseptic properties prevent
abnormal fermentation of the food, thus allowing the natural digestive ferments to act
and if taken regularly after meals they so
improve the digestion that a strict diet be-
comes unnecessary. Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes are most useful to those who suffer
from Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—Tins 1/6.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.:—
The Lancet, The Practitioner, etc.
AttJ
roC
HU
DSON
The Red Page
American Writers
Money Writes is written and published
by Upton Sinclair, California. It is not
a nice book, but cannot be ignored. It is
a study of American literature from the
economic point of view, and may be taken
as continuing the tremendous thesis of
' Mammonart” by the same writer. Chiefly
dealing with living writers, it will seem
much more horribly personal and piquant
than its predecessor. Sinclair’s boundless
sarcasm and satire—till of it skilful if
savage—will probably make many a reader’s
blood boil, but in spite of themselves those
interested in writers and writing will feel
the Svengali spell of the author’s criti-
cism, censure and conclusions. The title
is meant to modernise all conveyed in the
old formula of “Money talks.”
It is argued that to-day the world is
controlled by the printed word. “Mob-
emotions” with vitality enough to run them-
selves have gone. Mass-emotions are now
made to order. But books do not count for
much. “What rules the thinking of Ameri-
cans are moving pictures, radio and Sunday
supplements' and popular magazines which
circulate by the millions.” In this naked
passage you make acquaintance with his
point of view:—
Our fashions in clothes are furnished to us by-
keepers of French mistresses; whatever these blasd
persons find alluring is what our wives and daughters
will wear in the coming season —our wives and
daughters would rather be dead than behind the
times. Or take our moving- pictures—what goes
into them is decided by the keepers' of mistresses
in Hollywood; these financially and sexually potent
gentlemen put their favorites upon the screen, to
display their “charm” —with the result that a large
part of our school children are set to acting like
little harlots.
Sinclair refers as starkly to a swarm of
critics “who base their judgments upon the
Cabell thesis that the purpose of literature
is to find more varied and subtle ways of
hinting at the approach of the male and
female generative organs.”
Dicta on the art of novel-writing are
numerous and provocative. “The novel that
goes” has bitter contempt poured upon it.
“The way to be a genius of the Freudian
age is to write, ‘How are you going to under-
stand anyone or anything?’ When the
intellectual reads that, he slaps his leg and
cries, ‘Aha! Here is sincerity! Here is
naturalism! Here is the real, elemental,
primitive, naive! Here is a true overflow,
red-hot lava boiling up from the subcon-
scious!’ ”
Sherwood Anderson is said to be “the
hite hope of all the American intelli-
atsia;’ but his stories are all on the same
eme: his characters are “men and women
o cannot adjust themselves to any aspect
life.” On Hergesheimer: “In all my
- rding of the literatures of seven languages
id four thousand years I cannot recall any
vtist lending his fancy language to the
glorifying of mere empty vanity and pre-
tence.” Cabell is characterised as “the
charm poacher,” his “Jurgen” as “one of the
most depraved and depraving books.” Carl
Van Vechten is “the tattooed novelist.”
Dreiser is “a better divinity than others for
the reason that he has not abdicated to
snobbery.” Mencken “is in a Berserk rage
against stupidity, dulness and sham. He
has very little regard for facts; all he is
thinking about is to amuse and startle.”
Sinclair Lewis is “the most famous of
American novelists,” but does not make
as much use of his radical education as his
country requires.” Some of Eugene
O’Neill’s work is “great drama and great
poetry.” Floyd Dell is “a keen and sensi-
tive mind, swayed by all winds of thought.”
In the course of his comparisons Sinclair
speaks thus: “Dostoyevski wrote about
nothing but prostitutes, drunkards, epilep-
tics and religious mysteries,” and became
the greatest of all novelists—to the British
bourgeoisie. Kipling “is one of the trag-
edies of literature.” On the other hand.
David Graham Phillips “is one of the great
moral forces of our literature, and he will
come into his own.” Among the scattered
pearls are:—
All great art is optimistic.
Every artist is a double personality, living two
lives.
The successful artists are those who learn to
put a shell around them, and live, like a tortoise,
inside.
When business men, however honest, are permitted
to crowd the real artist out of existence, culture
dies.
In its 47 chapters “Money Writes” inci-
dentally discusses realism, what the public
wants, John Barleycorn, Mussolini, Czar-
dom, war, class-consciousness, revolution
and (very pertinaciously and typically)
morality. “Ours is the time of pain and
sacrifice,” but a literature is coming “based
upon scientific optimism and constructive
social vision.” If for many the book be
entirely sketchy and scandalous, if its hint-
ing at dreadful degeneracy leave a nasty
taste in the mouth, if it appear that Upton
Sinclair’s idea of literature is just Bolshe-
vik propaganda, nevertheless none really
concerned for honest, free and non-mon-
opolistic expression can fail to feel alarmed
with the tendencies and things impeached,
sincerely if sardonically, in these extra-
ordinary pages.
R. S. Ross.
Memory Training
For 10 years I have taught in a Melbourne
suburb with a somewhat unsettled popula-
tion. “What poetry did you learn at the
other school?” I asked new pupils from
each of the States of Australia. Rarely, in
all that time, have I found a child that
could recite any stanza leamt at school;
very often they could not even give the
name of a single selection. Once, about 50
of my boys learned A. B. Paterson’s “Haw-
ker, the Standard Bearer.” They rolled it
out with great pride, and seemed individu-
ally word-perfect in it. Two years after,
being uncertain of the sequence of the
verses, I consulted these boys, and was
astounded to find that not a solitary pupil,
even when given a lead, could repeat two
lines of it!
Last year I was present at the educa-
tional part of a “Back to ” celebration.
Gathered there were half a hundred people,
most of whom had left that school over 25
years ago and had had little connection
thereafter with literature. “Let’s say
poetry!” suggested one member; and those
ancients unwaveringly gave a community
rendei’ing of practically every poem in the
old readers from “Mary’s Little Lamb”
to Gray’s “Elegy.”
The memory failure of the modern is
largely attributable to the “intelligent teach-
ing” craze of the last 20 years. Before a
child’s reasoning powers have developed, it
is natural for him to learn by rote. It is
then that he acquires the sense of rhythm.
Want of memory training at this and later
stages leads to ati’ophy of the memory lobe
of the brain. In Victoria the substitution
of the School Paper for a standard reader
has been a contributing cause; the poems
are treated as the study of one month, and
are then put aside and forgotten.
Incidentally, why should the study of
poetry be left wholly to the schools? The
subject is quite as important to the nation
as instrumental music, or singing, or paint-
ing, or sport. Even if a modern form of
the old bardic schools or the succeeding
“courts of poetry” is not possible, cannot
some broad society be formed in the centres
of culture, with the avowed object of cul-
tivating ( an appreciation and encouraging
the memorising of the choicest poetry of
the world ?
FINN.
The Ivory Poachers
The Company of Adventurers, by John
Boyes (East Africa, Ltd., Lond.), with a
foreword by Lord Cranworth, is a story of
illicit elephant-shooting in the Belgian
Congo. The author’s name is a household
word among those who are of the world of
big-game shooters, while he himself is atypi-
cal example of that Lost Legion which
has figured more picturesquely of late years
in East Africa than elsewhere, though there,
also, its style is becoming cramped by en-
croaching civilisation.
In the days, following the Matabele War,
before Rhodes Scholars and the Man-
eaters of Tsavo achieved publicity, Boyes
penetrated far into the unknown Kikiyu
country in what is now called Kenya
Colony, and made himself king of that
somewhat truculent race. When the British
Government came along it deposed him,
while assuming full credit for the re,suits of
his administration, as Governments have a
habit .of doing-in such cases. Boyes retired
to an uneventful life on his farm near Nai-
robi, relieving the monotony by occasional
personally-conducted trips to Abyssinia and,
East Africa. Then came news of the find-
ing of gold in the Southern Belgian Congo
and of elephant poachers operating busily,
if illegally, in Belgian territory just across
the Nile. Interest in life was again aroused,
and, though the gold rumors were soon dis-
sipated, the poaching enterprise seemed
worth while. In due course Boyes crossed
the Nile with his safari after establishing a
base depot in British territory, and set to
work on illicit ivory collecting. Boyes him-
self was caught only once. Luckily he had
with him a letter from the Belgian Prince de
Chimay, for whom he had acted as a guide
in East Africa in earlier y’ears, and this
satisfied the Belgian official. Then, sud-
denly, on the death of King Leopold, the
Belgians abandoned the salient of the
Southern Congo known as the Lado Enclave,
which ran down to the Nile opposite
Uganda.
Though their trade was an outrage on the
laws of a friendly Government, no attempt
was made by the British officials to inter-
fere with their goings and comings, save
(Continued on page 5.)


Anthony Horderns*
;v<v
m
&
V
w*
w
m
While I think of it ~
Just when the thought occurs to you that is
the proper time to order your needs. Realising
this, Anthony Horderns’ now provide a con-
tinuous telephone service, enabling you to ring
through at any hour, day and night, in the full
assurance of receiving prompt attention and of
having the goods delivered rapidly and efficiently.
Thus you avoid the chance of "forgetting,” or
perhaps the inconvenience of coming to town.
In addition, you can benefit to the full from
big opportunities created by special offers. Do
not hesitate to use this unique service.
M'UOI
££ your service
34 hours 3. day
Ring your order
through any
hour-dqy & night
Country Calls at Half Rates
between 7 p.m. and 8 a.m.
Country customers —bear in mind that
between 7 p.m. and 8 a.m. TRUNK
CALLS may be made at HALF RATES.
This means that our telephone service is
just as economical for you as it is unique.
USE IT.
1
feRN
Sons
in
"While the City sleeps, Anthony Horderns’ give
service”
Anthony Horderns*
Postal Address:
Box qjYIC, G.P.O.
Anthony Hordern 8C Sons, Ltd,, Sydney
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night


V, \
*
V
y: \ x v
x vv
*v* w
' VI "vW»Vv
"Vvv.v
'Nv.
\
SS
u
i
is.
X
%
S
• ♦ *
Anticipating ~ x
r~7 /
/*
witlj,m'atcliless super six
/
The IM EW
Anticipating tomorrow’s vogue, Hudson
crowns a long succession of triumphs
with the presentation of the new Super-
Six which dealers are now showing.
The resources which achieved the
mechanical perfection of Hudson and
made possible its world leadership have
been employed to create and lead in a
new mode of beauty, comfort and
luxurious appointment.
Here is Hudson beauty in glorious new
- designs emphasised by higher, narrower
radiators, with vertical shutters; saddle
lamps; full crown mud guards; and low,
sweeping lines.
In all models, every value of Hudson
body and chassis previously known is
surpassed—a new thrill is in store for
you when you take your first ride in
this powerful, luxurious Super-Six.
Drive it yourself then and only then
can full appreciation be yours.
Suber-
Six
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS. LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
xNEAL’S MOTORS PTY„ LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne,
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO.. LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


FT?
r
Bhm::
. • +
Hill! fi
/
ffliue
il
POPLIN SHIRTS
Sale Price
8/11
Usl. 12/6
Not an ordinary Sale bargain but our standard
high-grade “Business Shirts” reduced and less
the Cash discount. Collar to match fitted with
twin tabs and stiffeners. All the newest stripe
designs and the wanted colors included in the
range. All sizes. Usually 12/6. Sale, 8/11
At David Jones’
Sale
Castlereagh, Market and Elizabeth Streets.
Branch Men’s Store, opposite G.P.O.
in one particular, The ivory WOii —Bdyes
himself got 39001 b. ill three short if arduous
trips—had naturally to be shipped to the
coast through British territory. before
the Belgians departed the Uganda Govern-
ment set up a Customs station at Koba on
its own side of the Nile, and gravely im-
posed a duty of 15 per cent, on the tainted
ivory stolen from Belgian territory. Fur-
ther, it imposed an export duty of another
10 per cent, when the stuff was taken out
of Uganda for shipment to market, thus
punctiliously compelling the payment of the
wages of sin in characteristically official
fashion.
It was inevitable that the profession of
elephant-poacher should harbor some queer
characters. To mention half the author’s
instances would be impossible, but the
memory lingers fondly on one Bennett, who
commanded a fleet of launches known as
the “Nile Flotilla.” On being told of Boyes’s
success among the elephants this gentleman
tied Up his “fleet” with a quantity of mails
for the Lake Albert Government stations
on board, and, forming his native Crews into
a safari, set out into the wilds On an ivory-
poaching expedition. Yet another Scot, and
one of religious leanings, resolved to attend
a native mission church at Koba One Sun-
day after a hot Saturday night. On the
way he overtook a native singing merrily,
and promptly thrashed him for Untoward
behavior on the Sabbath. Arrived at the
church it Was found necessary to wait for
the native pastor. When the latter arrived
“Mac” recognised in the wreck the Sabbath-
breaker he had called to order in such sum-
mary fashion.
As to the actual shooting of the elephants,
Boyes’s accounts of his adventures read
much like a. small boy’s day among the
rabbits with a pea-rifle. Occasionally there
is a passing reference to Blank who was
“trampled by an elephant” or a vignette
of Asterisk’s head “torn from his body and
thrown into a tree by a charging bull.”
Also there is a story of a hunter, injured by
an elephant, who crawled into the long grass
for shelter. The elephant tore a branch
from a tree and systematically quartered
the ground, beating down the grass with
it in a vain endeavor to locate the escapee.
Boyes’s only tight comer seems to have
been when a charging elephant snatched
his rifle from his hand and broke it by
banging it on the ground. His best bag
was ten bulls from a herd driven past him
by natives, all being shot from the one
stand on a small kopje. On another occa-
sion he dropped two bulls with a right and
left, and, jambing in another cartridge,
downed a third bull 30 yards away. Boyes
swears by the double-barrel .450 express,
though he cites other hunters who habitually
used the .303, or even the tiny Mannlicher
.276. On the other hand, there was one
who affected a .600 double-barrel express
specially made for him. Boyes’s experience
points the moral, of interest to all game-
shooters, that the calibre of the bullet is
not so important as the hitting power of
the express big-game rifle. His only com-
plaint about his heavy weapons is that their
recoil used often to knock him off the
shoulders of his native helpers, an eminence
to which he often climbed when the long
cane grass made it impossible for him to
get a shot in any other fashion.
Interesting, too, is the author’s appraise-
ment of the elephant as an engineer. All
the roads in that wild country were origi-
nally laid down by the elephant, which, on
the flat or in the hills, always followed the
best going and the easiest gradients. The
tracks were followed through the otherwise
impenetrable bush by other animals and
the natives, and later the white man found
it profitable to lollow the elephant’s original
line with his roads, and, finally, even with
his railroads.
The book is padded out with accounts of
trading expeditions to East Africa and Abys-
sinia, but these lack interest in comparison
with the author’s story of 15 months of
elephant-poaching and his £2500 net profit,
after the Uganda Customs officials had done
with him. It is a fine book of its type, even
if the moral to be drawn from it is in-
vidious.
J. B. HIGGINSON.
Art Theories in Melbourne
In his zeal to defend his idol Meldrum,
“F.S.” (R.P. 20/6/’2B) jumps at the hasty
conclusion that my article was written with
the sole purpose of “boosting” the two
artists whose work I found refreshing after
the dull mediocrity of Melbourne art in
general; and he makes the inexcusable mis-
take of assuming that I voiced the views of
the two men mentioned, Shore and Frater.
The opinions I place on paper now, have
placed in the past, and may place in the
future are the opinions and views of Lester
May and of no one else. If I knew of more
worthy opinions, I would express them, but
I have not yet encountered them. I have
only met for a few moments the artists
under discussion and did not even get the
name of Shore correctly. I endeavored not
to discuss theories of art with these men,
for I do not believe in theories of art. I
think they are snares to the capable artist
and props to the incapable, and Melbourne
is not the only city in which such props
support artists who would otherwise sink
into well-deserved self-effacement. I do
not. know what may be the feelings of
Frater as regards Meldrum and Meldrum’s
“generosity and pains,” and I am not
interested in his feelings on that matter.
J only know that I visited Melbourne and
sought beauty in the studios and exhibits
of that over-grown suburbia, and I found
it only on the canvases mentioned in my
alticlb. Elsewhere 1 found prettmess,
cleverness and painstaking effort, but nd-
where else did I find that magic tduch which
fires the imagination, stimulates the mind
and lifts one fdr a little time out of the
grossness of this rather pitiable world. Art
that does not do that seems wasted effort
to m 6! . .
As to my gibes at Mux Meldrum, I think
it is sufficient to point out that my phrase
“boisterously camaraic” applies accurately
to him, for he is the most persistent prO-
inulgator of art theories and dogma Aus-
tralia has ever produced, and his aim is
the exact representation Of the object seen,
leaving no scope for the artist’s imagina-
tion or individuality. That being so, lie
is a “dogmatist,” and the unanimity with
which his disciples copy his method and
I‘ecite his- dicta amounts almost to hypnosis.
If “F;S.” has sweated blood trying to
understand the art of Shore, Frater or any-
one else, then he should give over all
attempt at criticism. Such laboriousness
is well adapted to scientific research or
farming, but if the mind does not react at
once to the appeal of beauty, then no pains-
taking “sweating” will enable a man to
“understand” that which, to the lesthetically
blind, is most certainly nonsense; and to
the aesthetically blind all criticism of really
fine art will always seem “superficial.” You
cannot measure beauty by inches nor cal-
culate its value by algebra.
LESTER WAY.
Literature in Schools
The difference between Cecil Mann and
myself (R.P. 13/6/’2B) lies in the fact
that he will persist in regarding literature
for children from a cultured adult’s point
of view, and therefore holds the pernicious
doctrine that children should study what he
thinks is good for them—his “best,”' not
theirs—whereas I have to teach litera-
ture, and in so doing try to discover what
is most suitable and most appealing in
literature to Australian boys and girls. • If
my critic will re-read my first article he will
find that I referred to specified ages, 11
to 14; and I endeavored to point out that
children of those ages could not appreciate
the archaic Border Ballads, and that they
really like Australian poetry. (Cecil Mann
says my examples are shoddy: so are pages
and pages of Wordsworth that are palmed
off on students just because Wordsworth
wrote them.) There are some simple poems
of Keats and Shelley that children of those
ages deeply appreciate; but at that period
they cannot understand “Hyperion” or
“Adonais.” Yet some critics would say
these poems are among the “best” produced
by their writers.
I ask Cecil Mann to recollect, if he can,
his desires and experiences at 12, and con-
sider whether he then could read and under-
stand “Sartor Resartus,” or Ruskin’s “Unto
this Last”—or whether he really preferred
Ballant.yne and other writers for boys. I
suggest the above two examples because
I have seen selections from these classical
works set for children to study. No teacher
of mathematics attempts to teach a child
of 12 quadratic equations, because at that
age a child could not understand such
abstruse reasoning. Nor does a sensible
parent feed a 12-months-old baby on prime
beek steak, potatoes and cabbages, excellent
though such foods be for adults. And the
analogy holds good for the teaching of
literature.
One last point. Mr. Mann avers that
we should keep the springing forest of
Australian literature “judiciously under the
eyes of our children that they might
appreciate its merit without being blind to
its extent.” That is exactly what I wish
done, because, in the period allotted to
literature study in schools—from one to
two hours a week—Australian literature
is mentioned so little that our boys and
girls fail to realise we have even its be-
ginnings.
COUNTRY PED.
A Satchel of Books
Canadian Wonder Tales, by Cyrus McMil-
lan (John Lane). A book of Canadian folk-
lore, mostly Indian. Here you can learn
how the rabbit came by its stumpy tail aud
its split lip, and why a wicked sorceress was
turned into a mosquito—incidentally, too,
why she still hates fire and smoke.
Asiatic Problems Affection Australia, by
Lieut.-Col. Eldred Pottinger (Robertson and
Mullens). Originally broadcast to the mil-
lion or so customers of oLO, these lectures
express the attitude of a staunch Imperialist
Englishman towards the White Australia'
policy. He considers our party politicians
have made a hash of it and that we are
even more vulnerable to-day than before
the policy was formulated. He holds that
Asia has changed and that her national
aspirations are legitimate. Japan’s need of
expansion is genuine, and the emptiness of
Australia will involve Japan in war with the
British Empire. “The effect of such a war
on the rest of Asia would be startling.
There would be no co-ordinated attacks, no
cohesion of combined forces, but every
colored race in Asia would be anxious to
assist in the downfall of the leading white
race. South Africa would declare her neu-
trality on the grounds that the war did not
affect her national interests. Canada would
require all her local resources to defend
her Pacific coast line, and the Old Countrv
would find great difficulty in helping Aus-
tralia. With a revolt in Egypt and a hos-
tile Turkey, it is doubtful if we could main-
tain the use of the Suez Canal. There
would certainly be a revolution in India.”
As for the actual conflict, “there would
be no necessity for an invading expedition-
ary force. The utter destruction of either
Melbourne or Sydney by aerial bombard-
ment would compel the eountry to sue for
peace.” But would it? Why would it?
Answers to Correspondents.
A 7 b notice (ex'cept of a hostile character) will be iakeii 6f communications Unsufficiently stamped,
frame dud address ihust appear on the MS. frt) liability is undertaken rte Contributions boOtn-
idCily submitted; And nb MS. will be returned unless stamps dcboinpdny.
M:A;H.: The first Only just missed. <o
Woop Woop: Has humor; blit flops too often.;..
Krak: Not neat enough for a featherweight....
Quen A.: Farewell “Romance”!.... M.L.F.: It might
please the Sunday at Home. .. .M.H.E.: Your
typing is a trial to the eyesight... .L.W.A.: It broke
on the unbreakable glass that resisted the bullet.:..
John M.: It must be nice to be able to get over-
drafts like that... .Milparinka: But what’s the good
of trying to pick winners so many months ahead?
....Donald C.: No smoothness in it... .L.L.: A
method of writing that starts every other par. with
“So” is merely so-50... .P.L.M.: We detest characters
who only die... .Trojan: Just a pale thought....
J.L.C.: For one thing, you’d have to make it “pur-
sueses” to get the rhyme... .Ron Dal: A story there,
but twice too many words... .L.P.F.: Woodiness
spoils “The Pines” B. Borea: No promise
G.M.V.K.; There’s an idea, if you can handle it
better... .Ted M.: That 100-per-cent. American style
doesn’t suit... .R.D.: Restless sea sobbed to sleep in
the w.p.b M. 8.: Impossible... .G.G.: Sorry ; they
lack skill Ahvynne E.: Not in our line....
Ursula 0.: “Mountaineering” is rocky.... Lilian E.:
Not sufficient story. .. .J.8.W.: Too gory... .K.D.S.:
Gets confused in patches... .L.R.W.: It has none.
James O.: You took a long time to arrive at
your joke. .. .S.Y.C.S.: Of no use Brere: Thanks
for mentioning that the rainbow is beautiful....
8.A.V.: Information being forwarded. Verse shows
too plainly the marks of manufacture, and is long;
but let us hear from you again Billy D.: The
animal autobiography is generally dull.... Ken Who:
Your trip was a weary journey... .J.J.S.: Nonsense
should be briefer than that —it wearies in such length.
H.G.: Too protracted.;.. L.M.C.: Real human
beings don’t talk like your characters do.
....Columbus: Discovers no opening.;. .E.M.R.:
Slight word-pictures with no particular mean-
ing T.W.S.: Dull W.j.W.: It went out.
So does “Vengeance”... .T.J.H.: “The Key”
can find no hole here... .C.E.T.: No paper
would publish it in that form... .L.T.L.: Doesn’t
quite appeal.... S.J.C.: Too slight... .S.S.D.: It’s
klip-klopping home... .R.E.8.: The play form is not
the most effective.. . .Iris E.: Tame... .E.J.C.: “On
the Corse” contains some quaint spelling but little
interest Triton: Elegy to the game rooster got
the axe R.F.C.: All it gave us was a shiver
J.L.S.: Sixpence a line; but it would not have
suited... .Hastings: It’s your Waterloo D. Mack:
Crude tale; and why place it in London?
IM'.: That “echo” repetition is merely monotonous.
....Rostand: Nothing like your “Cyrano,” old
boy N.C.McL.: Your sunset, “a yeast of colors’
painted minions,” was too dazzling... .H.R.M.:
Crude finish was its end J.S.: The stuff is poor;
anyway, the idea wouldn’t suit u5....P.8.: Poorly
put Jud. 0. : We did our best to laugh S.C.:
Cigarette effort ended in smoke... .M.R.: Missed.
O.A.J.: Boils down to a statement that to-day
is the day before to-morrow,. . .T.W. S.: “Mediocrity”
it was K.S.A.: And what then? 0.J.P.: Ramb-
ling narrative, i, .Knvee: Remotely resembles, a story.
E. Mere: “Gay hands flung' out” _ is precisely
what happened to them. .. . A.L.T.: Fail' workman-
ship, but most ancient theme... .A.J.J.: Nothing m
it Paui H.': That fur coat arrives every winter—
yours is the second this year. ... W.A.R.: Not strong
enough G. dc T.: Stirs rto sympathy.... E.W,
(Richmond, Vic.): Dreary stuff. .. .8.5.: Needed a
b. and s. after it... ,W.W,W.: Afraid we can’t make
it vis-i-on, even for your sake. .. . R-S.: Dances back.
. ...R.0.H.: Good story; but consider the natural
reactions. Are they right?... .J.A.S.: Why cast
all that dust in oUr eyes?... .E.P.A.! “Lily’
makes a pale story.... E.J.G.: Drowned....
If. J.C).: Formal patriotic phrases poorly rhymed.
R.E.: Can’t recall matter, but it is im-
possible to acknowledge pars.—we get so many
Mary W.: Why vary the metre of “Conical
Hi 11”?... .Emma C.: Couldn’t find a grain of gold in
the pile I. Wilk: Fails to grip. ...Mil 0. i
The “Alarm Clock” may ring elsewhere.... Don fit. S
The chronicle of generosity goes beyond belief... <
Hut: Wild and woolly idea... .C.C<: The crush of still
better things has crowded it out. .. .G.S.Y.: Interest-
ing subject, but the telling is tame. .. . G.E.T.
(London): Nofle suitable—we don’t, anyway, take
matter previously printed elsewhere.... Yenton:
Weakly put..,.M.8.; Note received; failed to And
the “poetry”.... John H.: Crude... .Vivian S.! A
fragile little effort. Better piaiit it and allow it to
grow.... Bramm: Not in our line; some Tas. paper
would very likely publish it. ...Rose B. fit.: No,
perhaps it wouldn’t, but it would help. And we
proposed to make it voluntary.... Danvers W.: Only
failed on the second time round... .D.H.E.: A few
ounces under the weight... .A.R.R. 1 Comb out your
brains. The stuff is good, but dreadfully tangled.
Geo. R.: “Faustus” nearly persuaded us
Toolong: Toothin, too.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.F.: Prohibition cartoon drawn in wash would
have been better if you hadn’t been so liberal with
the water D.K,: Not bad, but you need a Arm,
clean line V.P.: Don’t care for drawings in which
the words of the joke are shown on bubbles blown
from the characters’ mouths R.H.: Be yourself;
imitators never make much headway.... G.C.: An
inept gag tagged to a feeble sketch. .. .G.D.M.:
Suspiciously reminiscent... .T.0.C.: Those mixed
metaphors have been mixed before... .F. 8.: Largely
blots; and smudges. .. .H.S.E.: The quality of the
lettering suggests that you would make a good
ticket-writer C.D.: No chance in the w0r1d....
W. 8.: Aviator joke too ponderous M.P.L.: Menu
card decorated with head studies of guests at lodge
banquet of local interest 0n1y... .R.J.: Your liod-
carrier is too profane for us.-.. .A.fil.N.: Humorless.
C.J.: A stale pun and a wretched drawing
8.T.W.: Uninteresting couple.


9
Hi
■■■■
I is
K he i ■ 2Sit 1
■ 1111
....
1
&
m
II i I
;.4
tB^*ll*
I MU
1
W.
mSSm
lilMll
B
■:
■I
H
m
■ I
m
m
■
HI
■
I
■
■
A
mm
■
M
SSS
:
M
■
4
«
: : :~ ••••'•
■■
'Sf
1 ■■
m
r
mm
i
i
*v
■
m
m
m
■■ . ,
wmm


The Bulletin
Vol. 49.—N0. 2526.
July 11, 1928.
THE MAIDS OF NO WORK.
“We have been unfairly blamed for establishing too many commissions. They are a great help to the Government.” —Earle Page in a confidential moment.
“Now then, lads, get on with our work. What do you think we’re paid tor?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia lor the White Jlan.”
Printed and Published by Hunky Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for Ihs
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
Brisbane Office : 249 Adelaide Street.
London Office : 36 Southampton Street, Strand,
W.C.2.
PUBLISHED once a week.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Acstralasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 J/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s,
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; o
months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs. ,
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to tht
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8..
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Bditor will carefully read and, where practic
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, ivhether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding tivo columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed- if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Hlack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which lias to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
in the Main Hall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.fi; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.4;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” 414-17 Australia House, Strand,. London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City: Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and i2nd Street, New York City; Ilotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West 41st Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle. Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 704 Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News
Stand, 54H South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Smith Bros.’ News Co., Box 573 Arcade Station, Los
Angeles, Cal.; and from the Barber on Union S.S.
Co.’s and Matson Co.’s mail boats.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 l’edder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road;
Shanghai, China.
Penang, S.S.— K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon.— T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street.
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bookstall, Galle Face Hotel,
Colombo; M. Atmaram and Sons, 44 Chatham Street,
Fort Colombo; A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York
Street, Fort Colombo; The, Colonial Photographic
Co., York Arcade, Fort Colombo.
Parua. —Whitten Bros.. Samarai and Port Moresby „
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva : Ilarry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Sura.
“The Bulletin’’ is obtainable at the bookstall
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.4.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) : — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
lOoz., id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 4»z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 20z.. Id.
HTuTZBulIeim,.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 11, 1928.
PAVING THE AIR.
In a continent of vast dimensions, with a
comparatively sparse population scattered
round its rim, transport from centre to centre
of population is bound to be difficult and dear.
It costs in Australia from £5OOO to £lO,OOO a
mile to build a good motor road; from
£5OOO to anything at all to build a railroad.
If anyone had suggested a quarter of a cen-
tury ago that it would some day be possible
to organise a weekly transport service, car-
rying passengers and mails, between Adel-
aide and Perth (1687 miles apart by rail
route; 1382 miles by sea) on a capital
expenditure of £lOO,OOO for plant and equip-
ment, including vehicles, he would have
been regarded as a fool. If he had gone
further and said that passengers would be
carried at a charge of about 3id. a mile and
would be taken to their destination inside
36 hours he would have been dubbed a
hare-brained visionary. Yet that is exactly
what is involved by the agreement between
the Federal Government and Westralian
Airways, Ltd. The Government guarantees
a loading of 6001 b. on each trip, on which
it will pay a subsidy of 12s. Bd. per lb.
When mails have exceeded 3001 b. each trip
for a period of four months the guaranteed
loading will be increased to 12001 b. a trip,
involving a subsidy of £760. The company
estimates that it will average subsidies of
£70,000 a year over the first five years.
Apparently a good deal of attention has
been paid to the safety factor. The initial
squadron will consist of four big De Havil-
land ’planes of the Hercules type, each
engined by three 450-h.p. motors. ’Planes
of this type have a high speed, and can
carry their full load—l 4 passengers or
freight equivalent—with one engine out of
action.
❖ sfc *
Probably few people in the cities realise
the extent to which commercial aviation has
already been developed in Australia. The
Westralian Airways Co., with which the
first big Federal mail-carrying contract
has been made, sends its ’planes regularly
from Perth as far north as Derby, 1467
miles. There are lesser services—lesser in
respect of distances covered—in Queensland,
South Australia, N. S. Wales and Victoria.
These services involve about 500,000 miles
of flying each year, and the record of fatali-
ties shows as yet only two or three entries,
and those belong to the' early days of the
services when equipment and personnel were
not anywhere near their present high stan-
dard. As far as even the present civil
aviation programme of the Commonwealth
Government goes, subsidies aggregating
£200,000 a year are available for mail and
passenger services—probably sufficient, in
addition to existing inland services,
to link Darwin and Perth and all the
in-between capitals around the coast-
line. In view of the fact that certain com-
panies at present are making a commercial
success of flying, it does not seem too san-
guine to look forward to a time when even
the inter-capital mail and passenger services
will need no more governmental assistance
than is involved in a fair remuneration for
their services as mail-carriers. Such under-
takings can be run, as the Westralian com-
pany’s estimates show, on a comparatively
low capitalisation.
:j: * # *
What will happen to the railways if
’planes become the principal long-distance
carriers of passengers and mails is not
clear. As a carrier of heavy freights the
aeroplane has not yet arrived, but without
passengers and mails the railways, ahead}*-
accumulating increasingly heavy annual
losses, may have to disappear from the pic-
ture wherever the sea can carry the goods;
and inland lines may have to be heavily
subsidised out of taxation revenue or
scrapped in favor of motor transport. It
is a curious paradox that in Britain, where
the railways are privately owned, their most
formidable competitors, the aeroplane and
the motor-car, have been discouraged by
the Government from entering into com-
petition with them; whereas Australia,
which has a national liability for all its
railroads, and is sorry for it, leads the whole
Empire in the matter of developing com-
mercial aviation. If we could get
to the stage at which the motorists
would be numerous enough to pay for all
the roads, and if airway services werq strong
enough to cut the rates on all sorts of trans-
port to the bone, it might not be such a
frightful hardship as it looks to tear up
the rails and shoulder a dead-weight inter-
est burden. But whether hardship or not,
the prospect has to be faced in an age
when the air can be paved at a cost of £9O
a mile.
BROTHER HINDU IN SOUTH AFRICA.
The Anglo-Saxons are still nominally the
dominant race in Natal, but their position
is by no means invulnerable. They are
beset with immediate dangers, racial, poli-
tical and economic, not the lpast of which
is the presence in the province of more than
140,000 Asiatics, whose tendency is to lower
the standards of living to those of the
Indian coolie. Moreover, they have in
their midst subtle minds, whose discontent
sows trouble and sedition quietly and
secretly in a thousand cunning ways. All
these things make the province a most
interesting object-lesson to the Australian
student.
The racial problem had its beginning in
Natal in 1860 with the development of the
sugar-growing industry, which, as formerly
in Queensland, demanded a supply of cheap
labor for its development. Coolies and
Tamils were brought over in thousands as
indentured laborers—a species of economic
slavery disguised in the terms of a contract.
After the expiry of their five years’ inden-
tures the Indians were encouraged to settle
on the soil. They soon began to enter into
competition with the white, settlers as
traders, small farmers and market gardeners.
After the lapse of 30 years, land grants were
withdrawn and repatriation passages offered.
In spite of these measures and of repeated
agitation for their banishment, the Indians
have remained in the country, and have
increased so rapidly that the coastal districts
of Natal are, for all practical purposes, a
colony of Mother India.
As a result of the disabilities and griev-
ance of the Indian settlers, the Government
of India in 1911 prohibited further migra-
tion to South Africa of indentured labor,
the ground alleged being the absence of a
guarantee that' the Indians would be
accepted as permanent citizens after the
expiration of their indentures. But the
economic problem had been rendered acute
by the advent of the Gujerati and Bombay
traders as free immigrants before the pass-
ing of any restrictive laws. Their shrewd
and unscrupulous business methods create
big fortunes and destroy competitors. Town-
ships in the coastal area, like Verulam and
Stangar, which were once white, have be-
come black, or black and tan. The opera-
tions of the Hindu have extended into
Zululand, to the corruption of the natives.
Durban is almost an Indian town with a
European quarter. It has its Indian bazaar,
busier and more prosperous than the Euro-
pean market. The odor of the East is in
its breezes, and the names inscribed in
western and native characters over its
shops, warehouses and booths indicate the
medley of the Asiatic community. The
valleys towards Pinetown, Claremont and
Isipingho are bordered with unsightly, in-
sanitary shanties; and the hills are covered
with the market gardens and banana plan-
tations of the Tamils. Mosques and
temples are as common in certain districts
as Christian churches where the white man
lives.
If the Union of South Africa were wholly
Dutch, it would assuredly make short work
of the Asiatic. It would repatriate him or
make his conditions of life so oppressive that
he would gladly return to the country of
his origin. In speech the Hindu is more
loyal to the British flag than the extreme
section of the Boers in the National party.
The Hindu counts himself a citizen of the
Empire and demands justice as such. He
is an aspirant for all the externals of
Western culture since the doctrines of
Gandi have fallen into disfavor.
Such is the nature of the racial, social
and economic problem which Natal has
created for itself through greed and lack of
political forethought. It is worse than the
Kanaka problem of Queensland might have
been if they had not been deported. The
Hindu is often a person of high intelligence
and sensible of the importance of India
in the fabric of the British Empire. He is
led by some of the greatest intellectuals
of th? day. He has a very clear perception
of the chasm between the white man’s
doctrine of self-determination and his
practice. His hold upon the country of his
adoption is even now so tenacious that it
is impossible to ignore him or get rid of
him. One of his expressed grievances is
that he is denied the opportunity of rising
to Western standards of material comfort;
another-—quite contradictory—is that he is
adversely affected by the labor laws of
South Africa fixing wages at the standard
of the white man’s pay—he protests that
he must have cheap labor in his factories
and workshops.
The whole question is one of the factors
which brought about the pact between the
South African Labor party and the Nation-
alists, whose policy is inimical to British
predominance in the Union. If Natal is
flooded with poor whites, the majority of
whom are Dutch, their votes will outnumber
those of the loyalists in that Province. We
may yet, live to see the paradox of the
extension of the franchise to the Hindu in
order to retain Natal for the British Empire.
DURBAN.
FRANCIS JACKSON.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Butler of South Aus.
The Butler Government of South Aus. has
had trouble with the unemployed, with the
Country party and with some of the Labor
unions; but its worst worry is finance. It
reached office in the last quarter of 1926-
27, and had to announce a deficit of
£1,050,000 —nearly £2 per head of popula-
tion. Determining to balance the accounts
whatever happened, it taxed and retrenched
in a fashion reminiscent of George Turner.
Among the many new imposts were a 25
p.c. super-tax on incomes, and a poll-tax
of £1 on bachelors, spinsters, childless
widowers and “male divorced persons” in
receipt of £lOO p.a. or over. Yet at the end
of the financial year the Government was
obliged to admit another deficit of £277,000.
A poor season beat it—that and an addi-
tion of half a million to the interest bill
(now five millions, as against three mil-
lions in 1923), and, to some extent, the
high price of Newcastle coal, which the
S. Aus. railways use exclusively.
The high price of coal has moved Butler
to a bitter protest. He says it is mon-
strous that his State should have to pay
425. 6d. per ton for the article, and so it
is. He claims that he can buy Northum-
berland (Eng.) coal, landed at Port Adel-
aide, at 7s. per ton less, and has, ordered
8000 tons to prove it. This is a plain warn-
ing to the N. S. Wales mineowners and
miners to put their house in order. In
sporting parlance, they have been “asking
for it.” All the same, the importation of
coal as a settled policy, to which Butler
alludes, is not to be thought of—the appa-
rent benefits to one portion of the Com-
monwealth would be outweighed by the
losses to the whole.
The S. Aus. Premier also maintains that
his State is entitled to Commonwealth
grants, such as Westralia and Tasmania
have been receiving; and here also he has
a case. The trouble is that the argument
has not been seriously raised until the Com-
monwealth Government itself is struggling
with a deficit, which is about the same per
head as South Australia’s. Still the S. Aus.
situation is not without its bright side. A
poor season is generally followed by a good
one, and, anticipating that, the S. Aus.
farmers have put a substantially-increased
area under crop. An abundant harvest
would lighten Butleu’s load—its effects
would be felt in every revenue-earning de-
partment. There can be no certainty till
spring; but present indications are very
favorable.
♦
The Road of the Sleeping Dogs.
Chip Judge Dethkidge, of the Federal
Arbitration Court, has been encouraged by
his new powers to advance a few obiter
dicta on one of the knottiest of all indus-
trial problems—how to pay people a basic
wage whether they earn it or not, and at
the same time do justice to those capable
of earning considerably more than the
minimum. The Merchant Service Guild
argued that the relative margins of extra
pay for extra skill should be maintained
with every increase in the girth of those
Siamese twins Basicwage and Costolivin.
The Judge said it would throw too great a
strain on the community, and he wasn’t
convinced it was a sound principle. But
the following day, having slept upon it, he
admitted there was something to be said
for the guild’s views:
“Captain Lawrence (for the guild) :
‘There. is not very much in the pay of the
skilled worker to-day.’
“Chief Judge Dethkidge : ‘I am sorry to
say that there is not. I am sorry to say
that the tendency is to flatten humanity in-
dustrially and in other ways, also, to what
you might call a level a little below mediocre.’
"Captain Lawrence : ‘Your Honor has the
alternative of doing one of two things. You
can restore the margins or introduce a new
method.’
“Chief Judge Detiiridge : ‘Or I can do
as my predecessors did —I can let sleeping
dogs lie.’ ”
His Honor had already told the guild that
even if its claims were just, it couldn’t
necessarily recover them from the com-
munity. “You have no right,” he said,
“unless the community has the money.
Services to the community must be paid
for at their market value. Economic facts
have to be faced.” But economic facts are
not faced and services are not paid for at
their market value so long as the whole
structure of payments rests on a founda-
tion that has nothing to do with the value
of services rendered. That is the conclu-
sion to which Judge Dethridgb’s logic is
leading him; but as he himself suggests,
the road to it is littered with sleeping dogs
which it has hitherto been the Court’s duty
to keep quiet.
*
Westralia’s Three Thousand New Farms.
The British and Commonwealth Govern-
ments have undertaken to let Westralia
have an advance of £150,000 “for prelimi-
nary work in connection with the 3000
farms scheme.” This money is to be part
of the £34,000,000 mentioned in the migra-
tion agreement, and it will be expended.
Premier Collier says, on “the Acceleration
of road construction, the fixing of railway
routes, and the provision of small perma-
ment water supplies,” among other things.
Meanwhile representatives of the three
Governments interested are to prepare a
report on the whole scheme, a job which is
expected to take six months.
This arrangement was obviously proposed
by the Development and Migration Com-
mission, which was responsible for a simi-
lar agreement with the Queensland Gov-
ernment in respect of its Dawson Valley
land. It suggests that Messrs. Gepp and
Gunn, at least, have learned something
from the history of adventures in “develop-
ment” which have not . fulfilled the rosy
anticipations of politicians. The future will
show whether they have learned enough.
One encouraging feature of this West-
ralian plan is that the Yilgarn district,
which may be regarded as the centre of the
region in which the 3000 farms are visioned,
returned an 18-bushel average last season
—the best in the State. Another is that
settlers from South Australia, many of
whom have been conspicuously successful
in the Westralian wheat-and-sheep areas,
are available in increasing numbers. S. Aus.
Opposition-leader Hill, who has been
visiting the West, reports that 400 South
Australians were among the applicants
(1800 altogether) for 200 holdings thrown
open in Perth. The “migration” part of
the, scheme is the most doubtful factor.
While Westralian, South Aus., Mallee and
Riverina farmers would very probably do
well north and south and south-east of
Southern Cross, given a fair deal by the
Lands Department and reasonable treat-
ment in the matter of railways, roads and
water supplies,, it is decidedly no place for
newchums from Britain without means. Yet
it is proposed to finance the scheme with
migration-agreement money, and the migra-
tion agreement specifies that “for every
principal sum of £75 issued to a State Gov-
ernment one assisted migrant shall sail
direct from the U.K. and be received into
and satisfactorily settled in the State.”
Perhaps this specification would be com-
plied with if the Government brought in
factory workers, fishermen and building
tradesmen instead of embryo farmers. But
if such an interpretation is out of the
question it would be far better to cut out
the migration agreement and depend on
other financial operations for the opening
up of the new areas (a premium-bond issue
might be tried), always hearkening to the
advice of capable and prudent public ser-


vants like Sutton, of the Agriraltural
Department, and the manager of the Agr
n it, 1 Bank, What looks like cheap
« oow would bo df-ed dear money
were there a large percentage ol failmes.
One of the Four Big Men.
Hugo Hirst is one of the Big WeVcThave
the Prime Minister is bringing heie to have
a hurried look round, and give auyic
which won’t be taken about
they won’t have time to leam. j
Herald lately gave him a web-deserved
testimonial over a matter whic l
learned, and, incidentally, though doubtles,
the act was quite unconscious, it showed
up the folly and ignorance and short-
sightedness of Freetrade in all its nudity
The story is that Hirst was one of the
men who saved the country m the late
war. Prior to 1905 or so the whole ot the
carbons used to produce electric light m
Britain were imported from Germany, and
but for the Hun supplies the British war-
ship would have been a blind giant from
sunset to sunrise, and handy to be blown
off the sea with impunity. Many other
British institutions, including to some ex-
tent the army, would have been blind also.
Realising the situation the Hirst firm built
a first-class carbon factory. Now let the
Freetrade Herald explain what followed.
“Immediately this factory commenced pro-
duction the Germans, protected by a high
customs tariff in their own country, while
maintaining their usual prices there, reduced
the selling price in England by 50 per cent.,
forcing the British manufacturer to sell at
u loss to compete with them, the object, ot
course, being to close down the British
works. The Birmingham carbon works lost
money steadily year by year, but Mr. Hirst
persuaded the shareholders to carry on until
there was an accrued loss of ±70,000....
At the outbreak of war the authorities, real-
ising the national importance of the works
The works were kept going day and
night.... The authorities asked Mr. Hirst
to duplicate the works”....
It clearly implies that Freetrade Britain
didn’t get its carbon supplies at all cheaply
from the Hun. That individual cut the
price 50 per cent., yet the British firm,
working on so big a scale that it was only
necessary to double the plant to meet the
war demand, lost a mere £70,000 in seven
or eight years.
A more notable implication is that poli-
ticians of the school of thought to which
the S. M. Herald belongs were perfectly
willing to leave their country dependent
on its most powerful and threatening rival
for one of the very urgent essentials of
war, because it seei.ied cheaper to do so,
and Freetrade is the survival of the cheap-
est. Even the fact that private citizens
were trying to save the situation appa-
rently didn’t arouse Freetrade from its
lethargy, so if the Hirst firm hadn’t
been able and willing to stand the loss the
enterprise might have been abandoned and
the plant dispersed in time to lose the
Empire.
The Herald’s narrative doesn’t prove
that the temporary importation of the Four
Huge Men will lead to any benefit for
Australia, but it is none the less interesting.
*
Paying' Dividends Out of Capital.
The Bruce-Page Government shows occa-
sional signs of nearly arriving at a resolve
to do something in the matter of the as-
tonishing surplus of imports over exports,
and the consequent increase of debt abroad
and unemployment at home. Page shows
more signs than Bruce, perhaps because
he is less taken up with oratory. Still even
the Treasurer has a habit of backing into
a jungle of explanation and unsatisfactory
semi-apology.
In a recent pronouncement Dr. Page
'‘illustrated how America, Germany and
Canada had experienced long periods with
adverse trade balances when they were
building railways and developing indus-
tries as Australia is doing.” This, like
somebody’s cocoa, was grateful and com-
forting, but it left a number of matters to
the imagination. For instance: —
It didn’t show that the Governments of
America, Germany and Canada used the
national credit to pay for the excess of im-
ports which made up the occasional (only
occasional) adverse trade balance, as Aus-
tralia does when it adds 32 or 49 or 51
millions to its external liabilities in a
single year.
It didn’t explain how the Commonwealth
had a large favorable trade balance (surplus
of exports) every year from 1901 to 1911
despite its railway building, while it has a
large and unfavorable balance (surplus of
imports) now without any excessive railway
construction. Some people set the violent
change down to bad legislation and the in-
efficiency of time-serving and demoralised
politicians, who, among other things, have
weakly surrendered the country to a largely
foreign gang of nefarious conspirators.
The Treasurer thinks—or at least says
he thinks —the loan policy, under which 32
or 49 or 51 millions is added to the aggre-
gate external debt in a year, isn’t so bad
after all:
“Our position is sound enough if we see
that we get a pound’s worth of work for
every pound spent, and that every pound
borrowed is spent in increasing production.”
It was -much the same as saying that a
nigger is white enough if he is sufficiently
pale. But as the interest on the State debts
(all said to be for public works and "de-
velopmental”) is now £33,351,614 per
annum, while the return from said works
is £18,016,406, the nigger isn’t sufficiently
pale by a long way. Dr. Page tacitly ad-
mitted in another sentence that something
was very much amiss with the loan ex-
penditure, and put the matter thus: —
“This money must be used for creating
wealth, and we must see to it that we do not
spend too much on wireless sets, motor-cars,
gramophones and other luxuries.”
And the thinking section of the community
is waiting for the Bruce-Page Government
to “see to it” by drawing up a list of pro-
hibited luxuries sufficiently comprehensive
to put right the balance of trade.
The country has taken to paying its
shareholders’ cumulative preference divi-
dend out of capital. Treasurer Page
might ask his working partner, who was
once a softgoods giant in active practice,
how his firm would get on if it made a
habit of the same thing.
O
A Sporting Proposal.
“M.L.C.”: A table lately published by the
International Labor Bureau gives the com-
parative real wages in different cities as
follows:
Index
Index Numbers
Numbers Based
Based on on Food
Food Only, and Rent.
Philadelphia .. ■. d 75 175
Sydney .. .. • • 136 136
London .. •• I°o 10°
Berlin . . . . • • 67 62
Rome 49 51
Lisbon . . .. • ■ 32 ‘t
Australia is heading for the impasse when
nothing can be imported without a duty
nor exported without a bounty. Our golden
grain and silver fleeces have so far averted
catastrophe, but the warning of an expert
financier like Sir Robert Horne not to lay
an intolerable burden on these two indus-
tries should not pass unheeded.
Consider chiefly our happy state were
THE SPIRIT OF THE CARNIVAL.
“At a carnival at Sydney for charity £360 were the gross takings, but the net proceeds were
only £6O. Wages were paid at the rate of £10 a week to a manager. Sydney paper.
THE MAGSMAN: “ Come on, people, be charitable! We’re running this affair to raise
sixpence for this poor little boy.”
Australia to accept a cut in wages suffici-
ently drastic to enable sugar to be exported
at a profit. All home-grown commodities
would automatically drop in proportion to
the cut, and the capital released would be
available for fresh enterprises which would
readily absorb all unemployment. Not only
sugar, but butter, dried fruits and other
assisted industries would change over from
the debit to the credit side of the ledger. A
tremendous fillip would be given to our home
manufactures and a proportionate set-back
to imports. The importers, indeed, for the-
country’s good, might be faced with bank-
ruptcy. When prices are high it always
follows that the wealth handlers—middle-
men and importers—amass wealth at the
expense of the wealth producers. The pros-
perity of the trading stores and trading
houses in this country is very marked, and
money is consequently diverted from more
productive channels.
Australia has claimed to lead the world
in economic experiments with her cos’tly
and inefficient Arbitration Court. Let her
have the pluck to blaze another trail and
prove that Democracy can handle a critical
situation as effectively as a Mussolini
might.
»
The Search for the Great Story.
The success of The Bulletin’s Novel Com-
petition is really rather embarrassing; the
task of judging nearly 600 entries was not
contemplated. Fortunately, the work was
begun as soon as ever entries were received,
and with most of the judges giving their
whole time to the job, and with the others
robbing themselves of all their leisure, it
is still expected that the adjudication will
be finished by the middle of August.
Not only The Bulletin, but all literary
Australia, is being placed under an obliga-
tion to the judges. A work so apparently
overwhelming might have been greatly
lightened by adopting casual methods.
But it would have been idle to make any
suggestion of loosening-up to these re-
mendously earnest gentlemen, their task
is to find the greatest story that Australia
can produce; and they are so eager tha
it shall be truly great that no entry, no
matter how unpromising its opening, is
left without thorough exploration.
♦
Yampi Iron Ore.
The news that the owners of the Y ampi
Sound iron deposits in North Westialia
are arranging to work them has been re-
sponsible for another outburst of press
hysteria. This arose from the fact that
the people who are putting in the plant
and doing the mining and loading have
made their position more or less secure by
obtaining advance contracts for the deli
very of a quantity of iron ore to a Jap-
anese engineering co. The principals have
stated that the Japanese buyers have no
more interest in. the Australian orefield than
Japanese wool-buyers have in the control
of the Australian .sheep-breeding industry,
the plant being Australian-owned and only
Australians being employed to operate it.
Nevertheless, the utmost has been made
of the alleged danger to Australia in sell-
ing iron ore to the alleged Yellow Peril,
the idea being that it will some day be
returned in the shape of warlike missiles
and similar amenities.
This, while remotely possible, is only
one aspect of the situation. Japan is a
shipbuilder on a large scale, and nowadays
manufactures all its own vast require-
ments for industrial machinery of all kinds.
These two activities alone should swallow
m the whole of the million tons per
annum that the Japanese contractors are
to absorb when the ore output reaches its
peak point. It is regrettable, of course,
that Australian concerns are not able to
consume all that the Yampi deposits can
yield, but the cold fact remains that we
ourselves have made industry so expen-
sive that progress is terribly handicapped.
The Queensland Government, which had
ambitions, found this truth out some time
ago. The Japanese contractors have at
least offered a market, and there does not
seem much cause for sleepless nights in
the fact.
4
Too Many Inspectors?
About 10 days ago a scaffolding at Alexan-
dria (Sydney) collapsed and two corpses
were buried the next afternoon. A few
weeks before that another scaffolding in
Sydney was overcome by the force of
gravity and the weight of a few men and
a winch. That also resulted in a funeral,
and the only benefit derived by anyone
accrued to the daily papers which printed
photographs and diagrams showing exactly
how it happened. The public is not only
inclined to ask “Why?” but to supply an
answer —there are too few Government
inspectors.
Isn’t the real answer that, whatever the
number of inspectors may be, there are too
many?
The whole system is a negation of the
principle of individual responsibility, and
therefore is bad. Human nature compels a
contractor or a builder or others that should
know better to say “Get the inspector to
pass it,” and after that when something
gives way and a corpse eventuates no one
is to blame. The individual who put the
rotten or rotting or insecure plank in place
gets off and the insurance company pays up.
“Wet-nursing” of grown-up and sup-
posedly intelligent people per medium of
Government inspectors and absolution from
the financial results of meagre supervision
or downright carelessness inevitably reduce
the people really responsible to the level
of jellyfish. And unfortunately they also
put useful workmen in untimely graves.
*
Sandy Blight in Queensland.
Deak Bulletin, —The Queensland Educa-
tion Department is certainly opening a
“trachoma hospital” in Brisbane for the
treatment of the more advanced cases of
“granulation” in school children (B.
4/7/’2B), but it is not discontinuing the
policy of treatment on the spot. The in-
struction to the public hospitals to charge
Is. per treatment proves that.
At the new hospital, children in the late
stages of trachoma will be received, and
can there have the services of the best
ophthalmic men in Brisbane, if necessary,
while operations can be performed there
under the best surgical conditions. The
idea appears to be the start of a system
similar to that inaugurated by 'MacCallan
in Egypt. The country hospitals will con-
tinue to treat the early and less serious
cases.
Under the old system which J. B. Hogg
favors, nobody seemed to take very much
interest and results were poor. A local
practitioner, for a small annual fee, was
supposed to look after the cases in his dis-
trict if they came to him, but he could not
be expected to go looking for them. Treat-
ment was free, and was therefore regarded
askance; and so lots of cases just got worse.
A fee usually makes people appreciate a
benefit, and so a small fee will be charged
in the future, and there will be a rush, in
all probability.
I agree with J. B. Hogg when he says
treatment should be compulsory. The dis-
ease is highly contagious in certain stages
and a menace to the welfare of the com-
munity in Queensland, and should be re-
garded as seriously as is tuberculosis or
venereal disease.—Yours etc. Smod.
O
The Parking Problem.
Melbourne petrolitizens are thankful to
solicitor Roy Schilling for throwing the
whole of the City Council regulations re
car parking into the melting-pot. Some
months ago that body decided that the time
had come to take steps to control the rising
tide of motor traffic. It set aside a miserly
area of the city streets as parking areas,
fixed the fee at a shilling, and, putting
attendants into uniform, sent them out to
drive all the cars into the official ghetto.
Schilling discovered, along with thousands
of other car owners, that the regulation
areas weren’t sufficient unless cars were
parked one on top of another, so he refused
to pay his bob, thus driving the council to
take proceedings.
A Judge found that the city fathers had
the right neither to set aside parking areas
nor to charge for their use. One result of
the decision will be that seaside councils,
which have been making a nice little
revenue out of using State lands for the
same purpose, will have to think of some-
thing else. ' ’
The only alternative to the provision of
defined parking places is to allow motorists
to distribute their chariots on the sides of
every street, which would lop a fair slice
off the width of the effective roadway and
seriously hamper city traffic. Local govern-
ment law is in many details archaic through-
out Australia, and traffic dispensations are
based on the assumption that vehicles are
horse-drawn. If the allocation of parking
places is ultra vires, whether in Victoria or
anywhere else, then the law ought to be
amended.
The charging of parking fees is another
matter. If municipalities accepted respon-
sibility for the safety of parked cars, or
even undertook to exercise reasonable care
to see that they were not stolen or damaged,
such ordinances would be less unpopular.
«
Queensland Land Ballots.
“Myola” : The Queensland land-ballot
system is unsatisfactory in several respects.
An applicant is required to satisfy the Com-
missioner that he can stock and carry on the
selection he is after. In the recent Saltern
Creek ballot, it was a matter of being
financial to the extent of about £BOOO. On
top of this guarantee the landseeker has to
deposit the first year’s rent and one-fifth
of the survey fee —in the case of the Saltern
Creek ballot these sums reached £489 18s.
Consider the expense to unsuccessful appli-
cants, of whom there are generally about
2000, more especially since the banks will
now ’only issue drafts, which cost 10s. per
£lO0 —until recently they would certify your
cheque, which the Government would then
accept. . ...
Surely the Queensland Government will
recognise that there is no need for these
heavy deposits where applicants can biing
other evidence of financial stability. What
with agents’ fees and bank drafts, balloting
for land in Queensland is an outrageously
expensive business.


Not good oil dloot \
Not (food spirit dlone t
r The Quick Starting Pair
Shell Oils ana Spirit
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
The Shell Pair-
This is the combination that gives maximum
power, and ensures a smootlvrunning engine*
SHELL MOTOR OILS are lubricating with com-
plete success every known type of motor engine.
SHELL MOTOR SPIRIT is the world’s standard
of quality.
OILS SHELL SPIRIT
The Quick Starting Pair
5567
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Prime Minister shed his cloak of
affability to some extent at Perth:—
Unless we have awards which will be obeyed,
and unless we get away from the spectacle of strikes
running concurrently with awards, the whole system
of arbitration will have to go.
S. M. Bruce takes a long time to get to a
decision, as instanced by the matter of the
Commonwealth Shipping Line. But he some-
times does arrive, though thus far on this
matter he merely says he may be wild enough
to arrive unless the position improves.
H. P. Brown.
A conference i n
London, at which 11.
P. Brown, the per-
manent head of the
P.M.G.’s department,
represented Australia,
has been doing big
things: one corpora-
tion is to operate all
cable and wireless ser-
vices within the Em-
pire, the Government
having representation
on the board. Details
are vague, but “the
operating corporation
shall be entitled to a
fair standard dividend,
after which profits
shall be equally
divided between State
and company.” A compromise on this matter
of ownership and control had to come; and
on present scrappy information this looks
reasonable.
A French visitor has supplied a brief de-
scription of Canberra. He got out of the
train at the main station and started to walk
to the town, but failed to find it. A town is
difficult to locate when it consists of a
Parliament House in the centre and detached
smatterings of population on a circle 25
miles in circumference. Searching for it is
like attempting to put salt on the tail of
a mirage.
The late C. W. Oakes, of N.S.W., when
still in fair health, was the driving force
of two Fuller Ministries, and if he didn’t
drive either of them very fast or very
far it can be said in extenuation that it is
difficult to get a heavy animal out of a
walking pace. One thing to his credit is that
he found a way to deport a pair of gentlemen
who came here on behalf of a proposed
foreign revolution—as if our own proposed
revolutions weren’t trouble enough. He used
a State law, certainly, while Bruce had to
muddle along with a Federal one, but he
did use it, and it is still lying around some-
where if his successors want it.
Queensland’s McCormack Government
found itself with a surplus of £10,500 when
the 1927-28 accounts were made up. It had
anticipated a deficit of £123,600. Several
wealthy Queenslanders helped the stamp-
duty revenue appreciably by dying, and high
wool prices assisted the income-tax receipts.
The railway deficit is expected to work out
at a mere £1,600,000, expenditure having
slumped from £6,493,000 in 1926-27 to
£6,104,000. Apparently a result of the stop-
page of work, for the pay stopped, too.
Sydney’s municipal loan of three millions
is to be floated in London as soon as the
Brisbane loan, which is doing its best there,
is out of the way. One of these days there
will be a record catastrophe on the British
coast through the collision of a big liner
with a floating but submerged Australian
loan.
The other day it was given out that
Iyemasu
Tokugawa.
Iyemasu Tokugawa,
Consul-General for
Japan, had been pro-
moted to the new lega-
tion in Ottawa; and
it didn’t seem unlikely,
because, besides having
put the best case for
his country in Aus-
tralia without havi-ig
appeared to do any-
thing of the sort, ue
belongs to a very
powerful Japan esc
family, connected by
marriage with the new
Emperor. But whether
Tokugawa goes to
Canada or not, it is
interesting to have the
fact that the Domin-
ion has a legation
brought under notice.
It only suggests once mpre how much inde-
pendence" Canada is asserting. The crimson
thread is made of elastic these days.
Ryan, the Communist gentleman who is
fond of Pan-Pacific conferences, recently
returned from Russia with a statement that
the lot of the worker there is the best in
the world. All the same, he didn’t stay.
Russia is run by men like Ryan, but natives
like Ryan have pre-empted all the good
jobs, and there was nothing in staying to
be one of the mob. So he came back to re-
sume the weary business of preaching that
this would be a wonderful country if it
imitated Russia, and so got to a condition
in which men like Ryan would naturally
come to the top and stay there as long as
they pleased.
The announcement, not officially confirmed,
that Maoriland has entered into a trade,
treaty with Japan, according the folk of
Nippon “most-favored-nation” privileges,
doesn’t sound at all unlikely. The Shivery
Isles sell the land of the Mikado a fair
amount of wool and occasionally a little
dairy produce, and import wares
to about three times the value. It is part
of the Dominion’s policy to increase its
trade in the Pacific and to be on friendly
terms with foreign naval Powers in that
ocean.
Followers of McPherson and Allan, who
lead the two main sections of the Opposition
in Vic. Assembly, talk about moving a no-
confidence amendment on the Address-in
Reply, but they might as well save their
breath till they can consolidate non-Labor-
ites and get the numbers. Labor won’t be in
danger until it tries to redistribute Assembly
seats on a one-vote-one-value basis or en-
deavors to have a lodger vote for a Greater
Melbourne Council.
William Padbury, a person of some im-
portance in Westralia, has been fined £4O
for voting five times at the Leg. Council
elections. It is a glaringly small penalty for
so rank an office, and the worst of it is that
the offender, • who pleaded “forgetfulness,”
will retain the franchise he has abused,
although thousands of honest men do not
possess it.
The South Aus. Ministry has ordered 8000
tons of coal from England, the reason being
that money is scarce and that Newcastle
(N.S.W.) charges 7s. per ton more for the.
article delivered in Adelaide than New-
castle (England). The loss through dealing
with Newcastle (N.S.W.) is reported as
£lOO,OOO during the past year on Govern-
ment orders alone. Newcastle (N.S.W.) has
been in a category by itself for the half-
time habit and other costly idiosyncrasies,
and the price of coal naturally had to be
high. It was held that as Newcastle (N.S.W.)
had a practical monopoly of the export trade
it could afford to strike an independent atti-
tude, but the possible loss of another cus-
tomer who used to be good for nearly a mil-
lion tons per annum shows that something is
going wrong with the monopoly.
One Marleu, whose name is admitted to be
a compound of Marx and Lenin, has
arranged to spend £32,000 on a new club-
house for transport unionists in Sydney,
and judging by the exceedingly low rates to
be charged for meals and poisonous litera-
ture he has also come in for an income or
endowment.
Canberra will have to puzzle its head over
four separate issues on Liquor Referendum
Day (September 1). The first is about
making the possession of drink illegal in the
Federal Capital Territory. The other three
concern continuance, sale of liquor by the
Government or sale in licensed houses. The
poll will be held under the silly electoral
law which nobody admires yet nobody has
the energy to repeal, and anybody who pub-
lishes a statement that he approves of liquor,
or disapproves of it, or doesn’t care a con-
t’nental either way must affix his name or be
liable for £5O.
•The House of Commons has smitten its
discredited Freetrade joss once more by put-
ting a 25 per cent, duty on imported pots,
kettles and other articles of the sort. The
stalwarts of the Lib-Lab party spent hours
over the old story about how the price of
the working-man’s kettle would be increased,
but the answer was that if you pay yourself
for making your own pot it doesn’t matter
a cuss whether the price goes up or goes
down.
The Australian Workers’ Union has issued
to its members a comprehensive denunci-
ation of the Red element which has captured
the N.S.W. Labor party machine and appar-
atus, and gone Muscovite. In particular it
resents the statement of John Garden, who
runs the Ban-Pacific Worker, that it
doesn’t matter whether a man is “black,
blue, brindle or any other color” so long
as ho works under Australian conditions.
The blue man, who must be a beastly spec-
tacle, would naturally have to come here to
work under Australian conditions, for they
exist nowhere else. And after the blue per-
son and his black kith and brindle kin had
been here a while the chances are they
would pass a bill to exclude John Garden as
a foreign devil of the wrong color.
Revision of Assembly electorates, a Greater
Melbourne Council, unemployment insur
ance, ministries of transport and health,
treatment of mental defectives, appointment
of a public-service classification board, bet-
ter regulation of agents and money-lenders,
ahd extension of County-Court and petty-
sessions jurisdiction are the main items of
legislation listed by the. Vic, Hogans for
their most important session. In between
there will be proposals for dealing with the
1927-28 deficit of half a million or so, and
for financing “works.” It is expected that
there will be seven or eight millions of loan
money for “works.” It is only when it is
in Opposition that Labor condemns borrow-
ing.
A party of American “educators” intend-
ing to tour Russia asked U.S. Labor news-
papers and magazines to publish reports of
its discoveries. Permission was refused, for
its part, by the U.S. Federation of Labor on
the ground that the pretences of the Soviet
regime had been fully exposed and that
the Federation, having repudiated the frau-
dulent concern, did not propose to aid its
propaganda. The Australian .Council of
Trades Unions is about the only bosom pal
the Bolshevik can boast, outside Mongolia
and places like that.
In waterside circles Federal Arbitration
Judge Beeby formerly ranked almost as high
as “Good Old Piddo”; but he has fallen from
Judge Beeby.
this lofty estate since
the new award was
published, with appro-
priate remarks. His
Honor, it seems, was
“surprised at the
avowal of some of the
union representatives
that, while the Court’s
awards had been of
great benefit, the union
was entitled, by direct
action at moments
w hen pressure was
likely to be effective,
to compel compliance
with conditions which
had been refused or
had not been investi-
gated by the Court.”
He also learned, with
mild astonishment,
that “the employers, for reasons which it
is not necessary to traverse, though always
protesting, acquired a habit of gradually
yielding to the conditions imposed.” Some
of the employers referred to have just got to
the end of a costly three months’ disturbance
in which they didn’t gradually yield, so they
regard that brick as mistimed.
At a conference of the New Settlers’
League it was lately stated that owners of
farms in N.S.W. were fewer by 472 than J 2
months previously, and that the number of
employees had decreased by 665. The wage
for permanent farmhands is 555. per week,
and for harvest employees 14s. per day, with
board and lodging in both cases. And while
the pay is definitely fixed the wheat crop has
varied in 11 years from 66| down to 41
million bushels. Farming doesn't flourish
as “Good Old Piddo” promised it would when
he handed out his famous award without
hearing any evidence, and when Dr. Evatt,
M.L.A., urged that the rural w r age should
be fixed even higher than other wages be-
cause this would make people “rush on the
land.” The oversight-in the doctor’s case was
that the man who rushes on the land pays
the wage instead of receiving it.
Thomas
Tunnecliffe.
The resumption of
business in Vic. Par
liament has been en-
livened by a contro-
versy between Clapp,
Chief Commissioner of
Railways, and Tunne-
cliffe, the Minister.
Giving evidence before
the Royal Commission,
Clapp complained of
political interference
with the Commission-
ers, mentioning par-
ticularly the Hogan
Government’s aboli-
tion of the bonus sys-
tem. Tunne cli ff e’s
reply to this was that
the bonus system was
abolished “to secure
more harmonious
working,” njeaning
really that industrious
railwaymen have been
weakly sacrificed, to
placate nasty little
union tyrants. He was on firmer ground
in contending that Clapp’s inclination “to
import American manufactures to the ex-
clusion of Australian-made goods,” warranted
political interference, especially when hie
instanced > the buying of “imported electric-
train equipment to the value of £140,000 —
equipment not required and never used.”
Clapp has done fine work for the Australian
fruitgrower; an equal amount of considera-
tion for the Australian manufacturer would-
make him a more useful Clapp.
Before Alec Peacock was elected Speaker
of Yic. Assembly last week there was much
party backing and filling. In the Labor
caucus there was a majority of. approxi-
mately eight in favor of supporting the
Knight of Creswick as against Everard.
The way Peacock squelched sweating in the
old days was not entirely forgotten, though
gratitude in politics is a plant of slow growth
and quick death. The Nats, were not keen
on sparing a man, and the majority to let
Peacock go, if Labor took the initiative
in proposing him, was only three.
Elsie Mackay, now somewhere in the At-
lantic, left £500,000. and her parents, the
exceedingly rich Inchcapes, have hand d
this over as a little separate National Debt
sinking fund. At 4 per cent, it will be
3£ millions or so in 50 years, but even the
millionairess’s mite helps when applied in
the right place. If Elsie had left her money-
in Australia for the reduction of the "Aus-
tralian debt it might have accumulated at
14 per cent, for 150 years and yet wouldn’t
have shifted the external part of the debt
—the part which really counts and is pay-
able in gold—one iota unless the country
began to export a great deal more than it
imported.
Yic. Town-planning Commission is due for
disbandment at the end of the year, and
though it has made useful recommendations
its life isn’t likely to be prolonged. So the
huge wen will continue to expand in the old
haphazard way. There is so little co-ordina-
tion amongst Melbourne’s myriad councils
that one of these days one of them will
build half a bridge across the Yarra and the
council on the opposite bank will refuse to
finish it.
The S. M. Hebalo told a bit of a tale
in its Local Government column and stopped
short just when it might have begun to be
interesting:—
The rapid growth of Sydney and the operations of
tho Valuer-General have led to the doubling and
trebling of values in some of the suburbs. This story
of adrancement is not repeated in most of the
country towns. The greater proportion of the towns
of N.S.W. either remain at about the population of
20 years ago or have gone back. According to a
report submitted by the town manager of Inverell,
the valuations in that town have been reduced by
£55,000 as a result of appeals to the Valuation
Court in the past 10 years. Kate revenue is £1604
lower than it was in 1916.
For a State which has gained half a million
new population since 1916 the position is
remarkable. The Bulletin has ascribed
the trouble to over-large States, the
craze for forcing all the trade of a State to
one port regardless of distance and cost, the
other craze for concentrating manufactures
in one city by remarkable railway-freight
tricks, and to the loan policy. The Herald
might, as a matter of patriotism, advance its
theory and its remedy.
MUNICIPAL TROJANS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Moving at a meeting of the City Council that
the supply of refreshments to councillors should be
restricted to half an hour prior to and after council
or committee meetings, Councillor Berryman said
during the month there had been consumed at
council and committee meetings 10 dozen of soda
water, 50 dozen of ginger ale, 117 bottles of beer,
64 of whisky, five of brandy, seven of gin, five of
wine, seven of squash, 714 cigars and 1840 cigar-
ettes.”
God rest ye, merrie gentlemen, who be of
noble girth,
No weakling’s task is yours to mould the
destinies of Perth.
The job of staying errant cars and checking
straying steeds
Is naught compared with burning up your
eighteen-hundred weeds.
Aye, wardens of the public weal, yours is
no weakling’s task
To rid your burg of whisky by flagon and
by cask;
A nd he who dares say aldermen lack cour-
age talketh bosh,
For none but valiant men could stand four-
square to floods of squash.
Ten dozen neat of soda, five (only) of good
wine,
With twice three-fifty (at cigars—Corona
superfine.
Bali! Nothing by comparison—how puny
they appear
Against the job you tackled when you turned
to bottled beer!
Brave souls, my heart goes out to you. One
question would I as&: .
Do you require assistance to complete your
civic task?
Yours to command! The undersigned will
stand by all he’s said—
He’s with you in your brave attempt to
paint the damn town red!
N.s.w.
D. McM.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“O. W. Wadham”: Breasting the bar, I
noticed Henare was consuming a long beer.
As he had previously informed me that he
drank only whisky, I was rather surprised.
“Thought you only drank whisky?” I re-
marked. “T’at right,” answered Henare,
handing over his glass to be filled for the
seventh time. “But I never rike to trink
him on te empty stomach. Ket trunk too
soon!”
* * * *
“X.D.”: The extent to which sartorial
standards in this country have decayed was
revealed in a case at Richmond (Vic.). The
JUST SHUFFLED OUT OF IT.
“Dud disapproved of my short dress to-night.”
“What did you dot”
“Oh, just laughed it off.”
complainant in an assault case declared that
his assailant pushed him so that his feet
became involved in the Oxford bags he was
wearing, and he fell heavily. The wearer
of the garment was no lounge lizard, but a
timber worker!
* ' $ $ *
“Sinus”: The “noblest profession” does
still, now and then, receive respect. The
young hopeful c: a northern N.S.W. farmer
was thrown from his pony against a tree
and nearly scalped. Notwithstanding the
severity of his injuries, his mother insisted
on dressing him in his Sunday best before
galloping him to the doctor, 12 miles away.
* * * *
“Carel”: Nimmitabel is proud of its repu-
tation as the coldest town in the Ma State.
Its inhabitants relate this tale to substanti-
ate the claim. A visitor arrived in mid-
winter and persisted in having his morning
shower, though several gallons of boiling
water generally had to be requisitioned to
thaw out the pipes. He sang, heroic soul,
while undergoing his ordeal. One morning
the singing suddenly ceased and a deathlike
silence reigned. His host called to him and,
receiving no answer, burst open the bath-
room door to discover the dauntless one en-
closed in a gigantic icicle. Hastily securing
an ice pick, the host tried to effect a rescue,
but pick work was too slow. In desperation
he lit a fire in the bath to melt the ice, and
at last succeeded in withdrawing his friend
from cold storage.
* *
“Morita”: Our O.C.
lost much beauty sleep
trying to puzzle out
how so many men re-
joining the unit from
leave, days overdue,
contrived to get passes
in London to cover
the extra time. When
my turn came for a
spell in Blighty I was
well primed. In those
days leave trains left
from Victoria statiou,
th,e last about 8 a.m.
After a blissful fort-
night I arrived at the
station about 8.30,
and reported to a
burly M.P. outside the
R.T.O.’s room that I
had missed my train.
“Wait over there till
you are called,” was
the reply. The 1t.T.0.
went to breakfast,
and the M.P. assumed
command. Strays were
lined up, and the first
order was, “Fall out,
the Orstralians’ !
Then came the Tam-
many part of it —half
a crown down for a
leave pass till next
day. Thi-ee days I did
it, and then, though
the spirit was willing,
the pocket said no.
But someone took a
tumble, and. an extra
train was put on at 10 a.in. to gather up
the strays.
* * * *
“S.M.”: A Melbourne burglar changed
his own clothes for a better suit in the
course of a burglary, abandoning, among
other articles much the worse for wear,
a single blue golf sock. Why he didn t
abandon the whole pair isn’t explained, borne
days later a rambling policeman came on a
man pulling up his odd socks in Little liourke-
street, and one of them being of the blue
golf species the officer concluded he hart
struck the end of a chain of evidence, and
made an arrest.
* * * *
“Emel”: Talking of buried treasure (B.
30/5/ ? 28). there is a local tradition that
Melville, the bushranger of the Digger days
of Bendigo and Ballarat, hid his pile some-
where about Mt. Arapiles, and that it is there
yet. Melville used
the adjoining Mitre
Rock as a lookout
from which he
watched the over-
land route to Adel-
aide, and swooped
down upon any-
thing that promised'
loot. Undoubtedly
he amassed con-
siderable wealth
during his bush-
ranging career, and
old-timers swear ho
planted most of it
—a billyful .of gold
in particular—i n
some crevice of the
mount.
*
“Sunny Hill”:
Exploring the mud
at Flers one day,
the cobber and I
found an old
Tommy gu n pit
which had stopped
a couple' of direct
hits. In one corner
stood a case with
the shattered re-
mains of a rum-
jar, and —one jar,
full and sealed.
We took the sealed
jar with us, but
Frits had been over
that ground and
we were afraid it
had been poisoned.
It lay 24 hours
under a blanket in
our possie; then I
came in and found
the cork out and
my cobber bogging
in. “It's all right,"
he said anticipating
my anxious pro-
test, “the old padre
fell in a shell-hole
and got wet last
night, so I give ’im a nip to keep the
cold off. He’s still poking about, so here s
luck.” The proceedings of the next few
days are shrouded in an amber mist.
* * * *
“Mundowie”: I don’t know if there were
any prohibitionists about then, but the water-
cart got a hefty push when the railway was
extended beyond Echuca. That now quiet
little Murray River town used to be one of
the liveliest places in the country. It had
50 pubs, all doing a x-oaring trade, for it was
the terminus for bulloekies from north and
west, and river rovers, wharfies, wood-
cutters and others were numerous. Nearly
every pub had a dancing saloon and plenty
of girls. Money flowed like water; blood
flowed, too, when bullockies and sailors
clashed at the dances. Then the railway
terminus shifted on, and Eehuca wilted.
* * * *
“R. Volt” : The report of a geologist who
was iio hunter killing three lions in three
shots in Africa recalls an incident in the
cable office at Cap-street, Jacque, Cochin
China. An Australian operator on lone
night duty was dozing at his job when
a queer noise at the window at the far end
of the long room brought him up all stand-
ing. He looked round into the face of a
tiger, with its paws on the window-sill and
determination in its eyes. There was a
stand of loaded rifles by the circuit. The
operator grabbed one of these and fired
point-blank. In his own Commonwealth he
THE LONG WAY ROUND.
“Shall we take the short cut?"
“No, please—I promised mother I’d be home early.”
had never even shot a rabbit, but the tiger
dropped stone dead.
* * * *
“Outcrop”: During the dismantling of a
camp at Trafalgar (W.A.), condemned not
long ago by the Kalgoorlie health authorities,
a trapdoor was discovered leading to a peatly-
constructed cellar. The iron lining of the
cellar concealed a tunnel about 18in. wide
•by 30in. high. This, on being followed up
for a few feet, widened out and disclosed a
furnace and the other implements necessary
for the illicit treatment of gold. The tunnel
then 1 narrowed again, being so constructed
as to take the smoke from the furnace to
the camp chimney. It was an ingenious
arrangement, and must have taken a lot
of hard work, but doubtless it paid its owner
very handsomely.
* * * *
“J. D. Rose”: A reminder of the A.I.F.
sojourn in Egypt is the sphinx in Kuring-
gai Chase, Sydney. Beside the Soldiers
Home is a rugged path leading into a valley,
where stands the sphinx, hewn from solid
rock by inmates of the home. The face is
very round, with flat nose and a large
mouth; the body is that of a lion; in front
is the inscription: “Lest we forget, 1914-
18.” Two pyramids have been placed flank-
ing the sphinx, and these also have been
fashioned from solid blocks of stone.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: Recently the illegal operations
of a powerful transmitter upset the recep-
tion of broadcast programmes in the Mel-
bourne suburb of Mplvern. The interrupter
used an amazing variety of wave-lengths, and
there was no getting away from him. Ex-
haustive inquiry into the actions of local
amateur experimenters failed to disclose the
culprit. It was eventually found that the
trouble came from a loose member in the
overhead electric tramway gear. Any wire
carrying a current will set up a wireless
oscillation if moved, and in this case it was
such as to interfere with the calm enjoy-
ment of people concerned in over 1000 sets.
* * * *
“Flop” : The council clerk in a Tas. muni-
cipality was not doing the job satisfactorily,
so the decree for his dismissal went forth.
Three months’ notice in writing was given
and a successor arranged for. As the time
for the change-over arrived the councillors
could not understand why the officer showed
no signs of vacating office. On the day the
notice should have terminated he showed
them the piece of paper. It was undated,
and he claimed a further,, three months
notice. He got it. and there was no doubt
about the date on the second piece of paper.
They put it on with a perforator.
♦ * * *
“C. Bumpkin”: The prettiest picture yet
presented in aviation was the arrival of the
four British supermarines at St. Hilda. A
layman would have said that they resembled
angry scorpions with' their tails upraised, but
to a naval eye they must have suggested so
many dismasted Chinese junks hurtling
through the atmosphere. In Singapore the
supermarines moored amongst just such relics
of the past. That, of course, links them
with Drake’s Golden Hind, for the high poop
and low waist of the Asiatic junk were only
a ctib from the mediaeval galleon. Also
their huge outriggers carrying little boats re-
lated them to the Javanese gobong. and the
function of the double booms is precisely the
same. The difference is that the conservative
Asiatic went on perpetrating antiquated ideas
centuries after better notions had been dis-
covered. In the case of the.flying boats the
towering poop, useful in a following sea but
dangerous when the vessel is close-hauled, is
split into three tails which provide perfect
stability in the air. On the water the super-
marines ride wonderfully light, considering
the weight of the engines and fuel and the
fact that the body, 50 feet in length, has
spacious, state-rooms capable of comfortably
accommodating seven men.
* * * *
“Sol M.”: In a puzzled sort of way the
Law lately tried to solve the problem of
Esther and Joseph Young, of Newcastle, by
sending them to gaol for a month. They
were mother and son. The press politely
said nothing about Esther’s age, but as
Joseph’s years numbered 26 she must be
past her first youth. Evidence was given
to the effect that the pair never worked:
that their humpy was a record for filth and
emitted an odor “enough to knock a man
down”; that they slept in one bed under
one objectionable blanket; that the lady
“walked into shops and took goods without
paying for them” and that she “begged in
the streets, used language, and went about
with practically no clothes on.” Consider-
ing the weather it seems insufficient attire.
An investigation of the past records of the
family should be- illuminating, also a study
of its future records. Joseph may marry
and have a large family. It is asserted that
women with bad habits have the most chil-
dren, those with bad health coming next,
and that the man who is a very casual
worker has a larger family than the steady
worker. Joseph seems casual enough to
have an immense family.
* * * *
“ J.D.”: Has any Parliament in Australia,
bar Tassie’s, a complete picture-gallery of
its past and present members? The Speck
owes its collection to the persistence with
which the late J. K. Reid, Clerk of the
Assembly for donkey’s years, harried living
legislators and the relatives of dead ones
for their photographs. The portraits date
from 1856, and one silhouette is included in
the total of over 300; the rest are photo-
graphs. The best-looking legislators in the
crowd are certainly those of the early Par-
liaments —there were many fine, sturdy
characters in politics in those days. A sad
falling off is disclosed in the productions of
the ’seventies and ’eighties; hai'dly half a
dozen of the pictured faces of that period
show a trace of character or intellectuality.
There is an improvement towards the end of
the past century, followed by a slight deterior-
ation in the early years of Federation.
About 1906 the evidences of ability began
to reappear, and the 1912-16 period pro-
duced the most presentable lot of legislators
since 1860, or thereabouts. The standard
has fallen slightly during the last decade,
but Tasmania’s 48 present members make a
quite good showing. •
* *
“Verri”: “A.G.M.’s” par. on the fierce
light that beats about the infant Princess
Elizabeth (B. 4/7/’2S) recalls that the “dig-
nified simplicity” in which the previous gen-
eration of British Royalty were reared was
partlv achieved by the dignified protest of
the Times. The very youthful Edward P.
had been much in the public eye at various
glitterful ceremonials, and the juvenile Prin-
cess Mary had also been doing a round of
celebrations, when the Times arose and re-
marked that England would like to see the
heir-apparent leading more the life of the
normal English boy and being educated seri-
ously to the kingship business, while the
return of his sister to the schoolroom, “from
which she had been emancipated far too
early,” would also be pleasing to British
ideas. Royalty was not slow to take the
hint, and both youngsters were hastily re-
tired into private life.
“J.D.”: Tell “Innisfailure (B. 6/6/’2B)
that at least one dinkum Aussie was nick-
named “Cock.” This was “Cock” Dunn, of
the ore-dressing plant at the Whim Creek
(W.A.) copper-mine. His cobber, a Lon-
doner named Dunstan, was called “Cockney,”
and his pal got half of the nickname.
“Cock” Dunn’s grave is in France. The
queerest nicknames I’ve come across were
those given to two relatives on the Nulla-
gine, “Rip-and-tear” and “Gentle Motion,”
which pretty accurately described them.
THE MISANTHROPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"M. Paul Poiret, one of the best known per-
sonalities in the Parisian world of fashion, is retiring
td his chateau, declaring that his work is over, as
the pull-over sports suit has replaced the lovelj
creations of the past.”
A mortal hurt was in liis eye;
His hair was prematurely grey;
A cloud of blackest misery
On his embittered features lay.
He seemed a man soul-sickened, but
His coat in lines superb was framed;
His trousers had the perfect cut
That leaves no room to be ashamed.
“I tried to save the world,” he said,
“I planned and fashioned, toiled and
schemed.
The world had wars, and loved and played,
Whilst I sartorially dreamed.
I tried to lift it to the plane
Where hats and dress have sacred place;
I preached the Creed of Clothes in vain,
And only learned the world is base.
“My work is done; I hate my kind,
Degraded as it is! I fear
That Culture finds us coarse and blind,
To whom clothes are but things to wear!
I seek this lonely solitude,
My crushed and broken heart oppressed
With hatred of a world so rude
It cannot keep itself well dressed!”
I left him sitting on his stone
(He’d hitched his pants before he sat),
Tearing his hair with every groan
Although endangering a hat
That seemed impeccable, the while
Tears filtered from his eyes half shut
To soil his coat of wondrous style,
His trousers most superbly cut.
N.s.w.
HAROLD HARDUPP.


“Joy-stick”: Westralian Airways, Ltd,
which has entered into a contract with the
Bruce-Page Government to carry passengers
and mails between Perth and Adelaide, has
been in the business seven years, has a
million flying miles to its credit, and has
carried 9000 passengers. It started with a
fleet of Bristol tourers, and a few months
ago replaced these with De Havilland 50’s,
which carry four passengers. These fly from
Perth to Derby, 1467 miles. In picking De
Havilland Hercules type ’planes for its new
job the co. is faithful to old friends. These
big passenger-carriers will be the most power-
ful aircraft ever seen in Australia, each being
engined by three 485-h.p. Bristol Jupiter
engines, giving a total engine pull of 1455
h.p. The Supermarine Southamptons, four of
which recently flew from Britain, develop
940 h.p. apiece with a pair of Napier Lion
motors.
❖ ❖ #
“Morita”: “John Pip’s” payment for loss
of a greatcoat (B. 4/7/’2S) reminds me that
King George w r as indirectly responsible
for a similar entry in my pay-book. In the
bitter winter on the Somme a greatcoat was
indispensable, bur when one was floundering
around in knee-deep mud its length was a
curse, so we cut our coats off at the waist-
line. We weren’t expert tailors, and the
coats didn’t look pretty, but they were ser-
viceable. When we came out for a spell,
and before we could souvenir new coats, we
were told off to line the Albert-road to watch
King George and his staff passing. We
were well spruced up for the occasion, and
all would have been well had not a drizzling
rain brought the order to fall out and get
greatcoats. The 0.0. gave one fiery glance,
THOUGHT SHE RECOGNISED HIM.
“Mary is so fond of flowers —she has the gayest borders in her garden.”
“Oo! I wonder if one of them was the co-re in her divorce case?”
raved and swore, and finally marched us
coatless to the appointed place. Orderly
Room was busy with pay-hooks that after-
noon. *
«ij, mu n ; ~ s . „ .
T d ex . Ihe Crown Solicitor of S.A.,
A J. Hannan is back from England after
“ mi ?£ty law suit, out. ot court, for
that State. The Armstrong-Whitworth Co.
were to supply 30 locomotives for £365,000,
but round that they cost about, half a million
make - Lateness in delivery and defects
that had to be remedied caused a counter-
claim by S.A. railways for 000; and they
impounded Armstrong s £ll,OOO deposit,
Armstrongs claimed their deposit back, and
over £160,000 for extras. There were some
nice legal points involved. Hannan left for
London, and Shortt, Iv.C., a former Home
►Secretary, who came to Australia to talk
the matter over, was referred back to London,
where Hannan and Shortt got together, and
came to a settlement that looks very good
for S.A. The State returns the impounded
deposit and pays in full settlement a further
£11.500, a sum which would easily have been
swallowed up in costs if the matter had
gone to court.
* Sc Sc *
“Larrapinta”: ‘"Hanno” (B. 27/6/’2B)
states that a still is hard to
detect. I disagree. Certainly a
plant capable of turning out
several hundred gallons of
whisky a month could be hid-
den in a shed 20ft. square, but
there is one part you can’t hide —
the smell. Some years ago, when
low-grade honey couldn't be
given away, I erected a small
still to see if the stuff could be
profitably turned into alcohol.
The smell when the plant was in
operation was terrific. The ex-
periment having failed, I gave
the plant to a man who wanted
to see if it would pay to con-
vert potatoes into spirit. His
neighbors declared they could
smell the plant 10 miles off
against the wind. And my
North-of-Irelnnd grandfather
has often told me that it was
the smell of poteen being brewed
which usually gave away the
whereabouts of the still.
* * *
“Nakhoda” : If anybody wants
to sample a mixture likely to
lift him out of his boots at 40
yards, let him pour into a glass
sips from all the most famous
brands of liqueur. This should
be done in the order of their
density, with the heaviest first,
so that they do not actually
come into explosive contact until
they reach the stomach. The
result in the glass is a glorious
rainjbow of red, gold, chrome
yellow, green, cherry and other
fascinating hues. The effect in-
side is surprising. A too-fresh
young Englishman who boasted
ad nauseam that his sole reason
for leaving his mother’s apron-
strings and coming east of Suez
was to raise a thirst was in-
vited to try the experiment by
his bored messmates in cabfe
quarters in Borneo. I helped to
carry him off to bed 10 minutes
later.
Sylvester”: When the amateur black-
smith is pottering about his anvil he should
see that his boots are tightly laced. A
Queensland M.L.A., who is also a farmer,
was shaping a glowing iron bar on liis anvil
and a piece of red-hot iron dropped in his
boot. Most people would have torn the boot
oh, but _ the politician threw himself on his
back, kicked liis leg in the air and dis-
lodged the clipping. But it came down inside
his trousers leg, and he wished he hadn’t.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: The statement cabled frorh
London that no experiments in Beam tele-
phony between Australia and the Cold Land
have yet taken piace can easily be qontra-
dicted. There have been no official experi-
ments, but H. P. Brown, director of postal
services, now attending the cable-wireless
merger conference in England, lias yarned to
his daughter in Melbourne over the Beam.
* * *
. “X.D.”: That rare bird, a candid peti-
tioner for divorce, bobbed up in a Melbourne
court the other day. He con-
fessed that he had married
the lady under the delusion
that she had £5OOO. When
lie discovered the awful truth
he made discreet inquiries,
and located a mate who was
nearer his own age and was
the possessor of a comfort-
able cottage. His own age
was 78.
“Nikko": Picnickers enjoying a Sunday
luncheon under tin' gums of a secluded cove
in Middle Harbor, Sydney, were unprotesting
participants in a neat escape from the police.
Earlier in the morning a couple of plain-
clothes cops had passed by the party and
were recognised as such by one of the mem-
bers, who speculated idly on their business
in that sylvan solitude. The picnickers were
gathered round the dinner cloth when sud-
denly the undergrowth beside them parted
and a slightly dishevelled youth slid into the
group. With a quick “The police are after
me —two-up,” he leaned over and possessed
himself of a sandwich and began to bite it
purposefully. The astonished revellers re-
garded him silently while a J. Hop dashed
into the picture, gave a hasty glance at the
party all busily consuming food, and took
up the chase in another direction. When the
excitement had cooled off a grateful youth,
a clerk in a city office, observed that these
raids were too exciting for him and the sen-
sation would not be repeated. His name
did not appear in the paper next day.
* * * *
♦ “Jesmond”: I am afraid the writing test
for drunkenness proposed by “X2X” (B.
13/6/’2B) would not be the success he anti-
cipates. I know in my own case that if
A MOST UNREASONABLE YOUTH.
“You really are most aggravating, John. Here am I going out with all these other
boys to give you a chance of saving enough money for us to marry, and you
don’t appreciate it in the least!”
I am subjected to the slightest excitement
my writing is all over the place, yet all
my other movements are under perfect con-
trol. Writing ns part of a more compre-
hensive test might be useful, but it isn’t safe
by itself.
“Hig”: The best drunkenness test I’ve
seen is the one they use at Sydney’s Regent-
street station. The suspect is told to stand
erect, heels together, close his eyes and place
his index finger on the point of his nose, all
actions simultaneously. If the subject is
squiffy his nose will take a lot of finding.
* * * *
“Sinus”: Young Tommy, aged nine, sur-
prised his mother one night by refusing to
say his prayers. She threatened stern mea-
sures. “Oh well,” he said, resignedly, “I’ll
say them; but I’ve just found out. about
Santa Claus and I hope God is not a ‘have,’
too.”
* * Hs ♦
“Gouger”: Small bodies of troops occa-
sionally got lost on the far-flung lines of
Syria and Palestine, especially in the S'nai
desert. At Bir-el-Abd, when the scrap was
at its height, two troops of helmeted yeo-
manry came trotting along to where the
sth Light Horse were blazing at the on-
coming Jacko.' Our squadron-leader promptly
annexed the perspiring Tommies, who con-
fessed that they had mislaid themselves, and
they wormed gratefully into the sand beside
us and opened out on the Turk. The Tommies
stuck to us while the fighting lasted, and
galloped away with us at evenfall, except
some. who lay quite still on the crown of
the hill. In the fighting after Mazaar several
Tommy troops were bushed for a couple of
days. Australian troops sometimes got lost,
too. Many a light horseman can vividly re-
member his regiment riding all night fol-
lowing its own trail. On one such occasion
we circled all night about the Turkish guns.
They let us have it at dawn, and the whole
regiment galloped he.ll-for-leather for home
and breakfast. This particular regiment
wasn’t the Fifth ; that crowd had got in out
of the wet much earlier.
*** . *
“X.S.”: If Sydney has its razor gangs
Melbourne is peculiarly subject to maniacs
who. take pleasure in setting hedges on fire,
cutting the tendons of horses and the Pke.
The latest example is a person who is going
round slashing motor tyres. The hedge-
burner is supposed to have been a gardener
who had been crazed by a lifetime spent in
trimming suburban shelter-belts. The tyre-
smasher may be somebody who has suffered
the loss. of a relative through the operations
of the h’t-and-run motorist. Some years ago
the animus against the rising tide "of motor
traffic was general, and there was an epi-
demic of people who put tacks, nail-studded
boards and broken glass in the motorists’
way.
* * * *
“Sliep”: Mention of transport problems
(B. 2.7/6/’2S) brings memories of the wire
road over the desert in the Palestine cam-
paign. Difficulties in the sand were over-
come by laying down two strips of wire-
netting, making a roadway 12 feet wide.
Beyond levelling the sand slightly, no foun-
dation was necessary, the wire being held
down here and there with pegs. Horses and
waggons could pass over the road without
much trouble, and the springing effect of the
wire kept it constantly on the surface. Some-
body had another brain wave on the banks
of the Suez Canal when it was feared the
Turks would make an attack in early 1916.
Just before dusk an Arab would lead a
camel dragging an Bft. beam crossways along
the bank, leaving a distinct smooth track
for miles. At dawn Light Horsemen would
ride along the edge of this mark looking for
footprints which would advertise the visit of
an enemy patrol.
“Sebrof” : Isn’t any bush grave ' lonely ?
(B. 27/6/’28).. Just off the road from
Arumpo to Tarcoola station (N.SAV.j there
is a grave reputed to be that of a bullocky’s
daughter who died on the track. This little
nameless . grave, honeycombed with rabbit-
burrows and situated on the edge of a bclali
scrub, gives on a sunless, windy day an im-
pression of intense melancholy and loneliness.
Bush burial-places can be even more depres-
sive if near deserted buildings. The lone-
liest place I have ever seen was old Cuthero
station, on the Darling. When last I viewed
it from the opposite bank the homestead
and numerous station outbuildings were still
standing, and tucked away in a corner was
a fair-sized little cemetery. I have never
felt so solitary and world-forgotten in my
life.
* * * *
“Query”: A curious coin. was picked up
in a Melbourne suburb not long ago. f 4t
first glance it appeared to be a 10-centime
French copper, dated 1857. But it was dis-
covered by pressing one edge of the coin
very lightly, that it had been neatly sliced
into two discs, connected by an invisible
hinge. In the space disclosed lay a tiny
photograph of a woman and child, both
garbed in the costume of more than a
century ago. When the coin was closed, it
was impossible to detect the join.
* * * *
“Aitclisee” : “Huffin-Guffin’s” par. about
Cole’s Book Arcade (B. 27/6/’2B) sets me
thinking of the days when the monkey-cage
was a great attraction on the first floor
near the Bourke-street entrance. This was
a favorite rendezvous of telegraph-messen-
gers, who used to feed the apes with pea-
nuts-, ginger and bananas. But one day one
of the lads pushed a telegram through the
bars. It was at once grabbed and devoured,
and the cage was taboo to messengers ever
afterwards.
* * SJ:
“Blaeklip”: Re bargains in jewellery (B.
6/6/’2B). Some years ago I saw in the
window of a Brisbane pawnshop an exquisite
opal cameo. The figure, carved in high
relief, was apparently the Venus di Milo,
but the arms were intact, only a hand being
broken. It was enclosed in an egg of ex-
quisite gold filigree. I bought the cameo
alone for £5 and sold it for £95. It was of
Italian workmanship and very old. Could
it have been copied from the famous statue
before its mutilation?
* * * *
“Chevroford”: The enterprise of a hard-
working Victorian came to naught the other
day. He had spent two years making his
own car. The first thing home-made Lizzie
did when she got on to the roads was to
charge into some railway gates. In the
subsequent inquiry it turned out that the
car was not licensed and the owner hadn’t
a driver’s certificate; and each count cost
him a fiver.
TO MANY A MATRON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"The sunlight scatters gold divine
' On all its power discovers;
But moonlight is a thin white wine
Poured out to madden lovers.” .
Do you remember, Girl of Dream,
The night we learned that truth?
Two hapless leaves, how green! we seem
Caught in the storm of youth.
My Laura, little black-haired girl
With deep blue Celtic eyes,
And small, young throat as white as pearl
Shaken with long-drawn sighs!
Now all of thirty years have fled
Since that most mad December.
I wonder do you hope I’m dead,
Or simply not remember? *
We were so innocent, scarce grown,
Leaves in the whirlwind spinning;
So young, wo thought God’s thunder-stone
Would strike us dead in sinning.
But no one punished, no one knew;
Our wild flame lost its glow.
At last we quarrelled—I and you!
Oh, thirty years ago!
I am a prosperous man to-day,
With three tall lads at college ;
They think the world of me; they say
I have both nous and knowledge.
And, Laura, I was glad to hear
That you were married (twice),
Have daughters I’ve no doubt, my dear,
You give them good advice.
No more than I, you splendid lass,
Are you a secret mourner.
Across the world, I lift my glass
To moonlight and Cliff Corner.
VICTORIA.
D. CROZIER.
ALL IRON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I-Iis corrugated brow was bare,
He’d eyes of steel (and one was cnsi).
An iron jaw and rusty hair,
His cold-drawn smile was set to lasfc.
His rasping voice lacked every grace,
Expressive feeling none could trace.
He had a perfect poker face.
S.A.
BILL O'C.


Me< <he Ufoif
✓5
a.
w
i
A
\\Vi
A;
ft*-
w%
///,
wm
4k
W/+
I
im
***
rTS
Ml
X\
V
A
£
\
/:Za
n
-~p
V /
U'JS
&
Vty
H 4
y,
'SsMh
m
w
Ty~
44
m
K 2
-r2rC'^
PRICE
OER.«^
yr?
m
If nof-heed fhisW tfourf Warning
UNFORTUNATELY, he typifies Australian in-
dustry’s worst enemy. But you, as a good
Australian, should know him —and mark him for
what he is.
You may find him on the buying side of the
counter, displaying his full colors by ignoring Aus-
tralia’s products, and changing his money for those
imported.
You may find him on the selling side of the
counter, doing untold damage to the prestige of
Australian manufactures reducing the ranks of
the comfortably employed swelling the total of
unemployed.
Depend on the test of taste - don’t be swayed by hearsay ! (jive this Australian Whisky a trial —
even OVERSEAS EXPERTS have admitted that AUSTRALIA CAN MAKE GOOD WHISKY tJ
He may attempt to influence you by blind
prejudice, or because of some ‘‘personal interest.”
Australia’s “ wolf in sheep’s clothing ” has
exerted himself for one reason or another to discredit
Old Court Whisky. He had a good run until
Australians more and more realised his motives.
In spite of his wiles, Old Court Whisky sales
"have grown and grown and GROWN.
Old Court’s success has increased the enemy’s
activities. He is “dying hard.” To-day, his prolific
field is amongst those Australians who have never
tried “Old Court.” Those who have readily realise
its right to stand as at least an equal with the best
whisky ever imported.
♦
YoduP Purest/
am
W
>3
P
aa
HSi? **«!
"5® i'; 1
>irU
R-!
9 Mi


Ardath Tobacco Co., Ltd., London
20 for I|6
sipontpss
335
CIGARETTES
777
PERSONAL
ITEMS
In the Brisbane Supreme Court every
morning at eleven o’clock forth comes Jus-
t i c e Woolcock’s
associate and
places a cup of tea
upon his desk.
Older members of
the Bar smile;
they all know a
story told of the
late Judge Noel.
“Orderly, bring me
a glass of ginger
ale,” said ’Sonah
one morning. The
glass was brought.
The contents was
tasted, and horror
flashed across the
face of the Bench.
“Man,” he asked,
“what is this?”
“Ginger ale, yer
Honor,” replied the
orderly. “Fellow,”
rapped out the
Bench, “don’t you
know what a Judge
means when lie
orders ginger ale?”
M. P. HANSEN,
Vic.’s new
Director of
Education.
Speck’s new Premier John Cameron
McPhee played A-grade football in Victoria,
liis native State. In Tassie lie has been a
representative tennis-player.
Alec Peacock was elected unopposed as
Speaker of Vic. Assembly, and therein was
more fortunate than lie was on the only other
occasion in 39 years when he placed himself
in the hands of fellow members. He stood
for the Senate 25 years ago when “Yard-
stick” Sargood died, and Robert Reid, M.L.C.,
beat both him and Stephen Barker (Labor).
In the after years Peacock rejoiced at his
defeat for the political mausoleum; since
that time he has been in nine Vic. Govern-
ments, of two of which lie was head.
In October the Rev. A. D. Wolinski will
depart to the Land of Israel. The old gentle-
man, now 82, is on the pension list of the
Sydney Great Synagogue, of which he be-
came assistant-minister 46 years ago. Artist
Wolinski is his son.
Passed beyond, Joseph Onus, whose father
arrived in Van Diemen’s Land early in 1800
and soon after settled near Richmond
(N.S.W.), where he secured a grant of
almost 1000 acres and employed 50 convicts.
His Clearoak became famous for its trotters,
racehorses and Suffolk Punches.
Jewry throughout Australia made a big
occasion last Sunday (July 8) of the Zahr-
zeit, or death anniversary, of Herzl, the
Moses of the Zionist movement; and a simi-
lar fuss was made all over the world. Its
occurrence shows the hold the Zionist move-
ment has taken on Jewry.
A. M. Loewenthal, the pride of the A.M.P.,
is noted in the society’s journal as having
‘‘written” £93.250 of new business in the
five first months of this year; his total in
10i years’ metropolitan field work for the
society has been £1,580,000 —which is an
Australasian record.
Canon Poole, of South Aus., is celebrating
his 60th year of work in the Anglican Church.
He was ordained at 23 by Bishop Short, and
has spent all his life in S'.A.' except for a
few years in Bendigo. Judge Poole, who
died last year, was one of his large family.
“Rufus,” who has been brightening up
Adelaide Register lately with special articles
under his pen name, is Ernest Whitington,
chief of staff. Whitington is a son of
Peter, for many years S. Aus. Audit Com-
missioner and a grandson of William S.
Whitington who claimed the distinction of
importing the first thoroughbred horse to
S. Aus. from England. There was an arch-
deacon in the many sided family, too.
Clieok Hong Cheong, recently dead in Mel-
bourne, was a fine linguist. Once lie was
addressed in pidgin English. “Sir,” replied
the dignified Chinese, “if you 'speak to me
in French, Italian. German or correct Eng-
lish I shall be able to understand you, but
I do not know the language you are using.”
In the days before there were Labor
leagues—a system afterwards copied by
Labor’s opponents—the debating club was
the political fledgling's university. Charlie
Oakes graduated through the Eastern
Suburbs’ Society, which sent at least a
dozen of its members into politics, including
Archdale Parkliill. Oakes was a jeweller
in Paddington when the coming of Federa-
tion and the election of J. C. Neild to the
Senate gave him the chance to win the
local seat, which he held until Jack Osborne
beat him in the great Labor year 1910.
Subsequently in the Senate for 16 months,
he returned to the State House via Waver-
ley in 1919, and held the seat until beaten
in 1925, when he was promptly given a seat
in the Upper House. Oakes was several
times a Minister; though not brilliant, he
was a level-headed hard-worker. Death
closed his chapter last week at 68.
No school inspector in the Common-
wealth has as diversified a job as Clement
L. Fox, whose home is in Brisbane. For-
merly of the Bananaland Education Depart-
ment, under which his “district” extended
across the back country to the Gulf, he
specialised, as it were, in lonely places, and
when the age-limit retired him, bronzed and
active, he was restless until, a couple of
years ago, an offer from the Federal Gov-
ernment put him in harness once more. His
present field comprises the Northern Terri-
tory, Papua and the Torres Strait Islands.
By the time he has been once round from
his own doorstep he has covered between
6000 and 7000 miles. Sailing cutters give
him a lift from one island to the next. It
is proposed now to extend the primary
school course to include technical education,
which ought to be of more benefit to Brown
Brother than the other kind.
One of the old war-horses of the Maori
land Reform party who won’t be found paw-
ing liis hoof and snorting on the hustings
this time is Bill Nosworthy, who has held
the Ashburton seat for the last 20 years.
His electorate has been abolished by a
recent Commission, the territory being
absorbed by adjoining areas, and he doesn’t
intend to seek another seat. A farmer by
occupation, and intensely serious by tem-
perament, he hadn’t been long in the House
before somebody dubbed him “the Mortuary
Curate,” and the name stuck. But a seri-
ous outlook on life is no bar to political
preferment in the Land of Eruptions. As
soon as his party got into power the mourn-
ful gentleman was made chief whip, and
he held the job throughout the life of
the war-time coalition. When the Reform-
ers resumed control of the country they
made him Minister for Agriculture. And when
Massey died, six years later, Coates gave
him Finance, which he held till Downie
Stewart, whose health had been impaired
by war service, was fit enough to take it
over. He is now Postmaster-General, and
his department is one of the few that‘show
a credit balance at the end of each year.
Melbourne’s oldest cleric. Rev. H. W. H.
Adeney, is 94, and has been married 67
years—his wife is 91. His longest camp
was at Ballarat, where he was in charge
of St. Peter’s for 25 years.
Danny Levy, N.S.W. Speaker, had a legis-
lative birthday last week —it was 27 years
since he started to help in the making
of the State's laws. He is the only mem-
ber of the present Parliament who has sat
continuously for so long, although Walter
Bennett, J. C. L. Fitzpatrick and M. F.
Morton were returned at the election that
saw his start.
BADDELEY, M.L.A., deputy leader of the
N.S.W. Labor party, who has been
touring the Newcastle coalfield with
Mat Charlton talking mischievous non-
sense.
General Nobile had previous relations with
Amundsen before that old ice-king's un-
lucky effort to rescue the Italian from a
floe. They were together in the Norge when
that air-liner made its Polar flight. Of
course they clashed. Nobile asserted that he
had control, and Amundsen retorted tartly
that his friend was nothing more than “the
engineer-mechanic” of the ship.
An array of British scientific talents is
descending on the tiny coral-making' polyp of
N.Q. in an endeavor to tell the world how
he has performed the feat of building the
Great Barrier Reef. The expedition is
led by Dr. Q. M. Yonge, of the Plymouth
Biological Station, and his wife, a qualified
surgeon, will set the limbs of the expedition
if any of them get out of joint. Australians
in the party' will be F. Moorhouse, of Bris-
bane Uni.; A. Nicholls, Perth; and J. G.
Young. Headquarters will be at Low Island,
off Cooktown.
In the absence of Viner, and with the
veteran Crane and Wallace removed by
death, this year’s N.S.W. chess champion-
ship has been a tussle between young Purdy,
who started championship playing as a
schoolboy a couple of years ago, and J. A.
Kinman; and the older man, always recog-
nised. as a strong player although not able
to give the time to the game that makes
supreme champions, has scored a winning
advantage by beating Purdy in the second
round, after a six-hour game. Kinman,
who was born in Malta, but has lived most
of his life in Australia, is a newspaper
proof-reader, and a shy and retiring chap.
A diffidence even in his chess play is evi-
dent; he thinks rapidly, but time after time
his fingers check in the very act of touch-
ing pieces to give him time to reconsider all
the possibilities.
Even when Frank Anstey was in the Vic.
Assembly he was always liable to raise
either a grin or a commotion. The night
Parson Worrall was summoned to the Bar
of the House, nearly 22 years, ago, for an
attack on Gillott at Bendigo, Anstey, then a
new member, delivered a dashing, flashing
speech which entertained the galleries far more
than Frank Madden’s admonition of Worrall
interested them. A year or two earlier,
when Irvine, now C.J., had left the Assembly
to stand for the Reps., Bent submitted a
motion to place on record the House’s sense
of the special services he had rendered as
Premier, Attorney-General and M.P.
Anstey suggested, as an alternative, that
Irvine should be presented with a copy of
his own Railway Strike Suppression Bill of
1903. The suggestion was not adopted of
course, but it was indicative of the cynical
regard Anstey had, even then, for anything
in the way of testimonials.
w. T. Rayner, who reached the age of
90 before death came last week, was one of
the early settlers on the Clarence River,
paying £1 per acre for his land. It was
worth £lOO before he had done with it.
“Iceberg” Irvine, who soon completes liis
10th year on the Bench, is only the fifth
1 Chief Justice Victoria has had. A’Beckctt
was Chief from 1852 to 1857, Stawell thence
-to 1886, George Higinbotham to 1892 and
John Madden to 1918.
Fred Johns’s “Who’s Who” makes the fol-
lowing Australians 60 this year:—
Major-General Barber (Vie.), Randolph Bedford,
Df. Jethro Brown (S.A.), Canon Collick (Fremantle),
tV. G. Conley (S. M. Herald), pastoralist R. H.
Hangar, Dr. Darnel) Smith (Syd.), Bishop Hayden
(Wilcannia), W. P. Heathershaw (Under-Sec. Vie.),
G. F. Holden (Melb. Harbor Trust), Col. Hurry,
M.11.R. for Bendigo, Archdeacon Jose (Adel.), Clifton
Love (Syd.), Judge Lukin, Dr. B. H. Morris (Adel.),
Jas. Nangle (Syd.), Chief Justice Nicholls (Tas.),
John Nicholson, M.L.C. (W.A.), Speck’s Senator
Ogden, Prof. Oxer (Ormond Coll.), Arthur Rickard,
Steele Rudd, Dr. Saw (Perth), Prof. Ernest Scott
(Melb.), Vic. Railway Commissioner Shannon, Major-
Gen. Nevill Smyth, V.C. (Vic.), pastoralist A. B.
Triggs and Hugh Wright (Mitchell Library).
Passed out at Hamilton (N.S.W.) recently
ex-Sergeant Harry Preston, who in the
’seventies did fine police work on the
Monaro. Once, when stationed at Kiandra,
he got on the trail of Harcourt Phillips,
a notorious forger, and chased his man for
more than 300 miles, finally capturing him
in southern Victoria. Another meritorious
piece of work was the capture of a power-
fully-built and pugnacious half-caste, John
McGrath, who was wanted for an offence
against a selector’s wife. When Preston heard
of the crime he set off alone in pursuit.
Throughout the night he trailed McGrath,
who had taken to the mountain country,
and next day came face to face with him on
a precipitous track. Charging, he rode the
half-caste down and managed to get the
handcuffs on him. This same McGrath was,
later, Nosey Bob’s first case.
“Odtaa”: Listening the other day to
Macrossan, of the Bananalaiid Supreme
Court Bench, in a typical mood of not taking
any man’s word for anything, but demanding
scrupulous documentary and letter-of-law
foundation for every word from even barris-
terial lips, I was reminded of a -passage in
C. A. Bernays’s “Queensland Politics During
Sixty Years.” It had to do with the late
J. M. Macrossan, “Honest John,” of the
State Assembly, and his pet aversion, Sam
Griffith. “How often,” wrote Bernays “on<>
remembers him, when Griffith, following a
favorite habit, quoted from Hansard, rising
from his seat, walking to the table, pick-
ing _ up another copy of the Debates, and
saying, Page please?’ He would not trust
Griffith to quote correctly.”
John. Robert Wood, who made a reputa-
tion in sport, brewed beer, and married
Essm Jenyns, died in England in February:
«oA S-W 7,r eSt ? te has been valued at
±85,b00. Wood s brewing was hereditary
and gave him
money to play with ;
bnt that didn’t
soften the blow for
his bride’s family.
The lady bolted
with her woo e r,
pursued by irate
theatrical guard-
ians, who made a
scene at the wed-
ding. They claimed
that Essie’s con-
tract with them
had been broken,
and assessed their
loss at a mighty
sum of money. A
cheque was paid
over without a
murmur.
Chief Judge
dethridge,
of the Federal
Arbitration
Court, who
is beginning
to think that
our whole
basis of wage-
fixing has
been wrong.
The Bulletin’s old Inclement Wragge
was lately recalled for a day when his “In-
stitute and Museum” at Birkenhead, a
suburb of Auckland (M.L.), was destroyed
by fire, and his telescope and meteorolo-
gical instruments and the array of curios
he collected in his South Sea Island wan-
derings went up in smoke.
HOME TIES.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ii I went to England in the golden spring-
time,
Leaving all the places and the faces that
I know,
Would my heart be throbbing or sobbing to
the spring rhyme?
Or would it be sighing and crying for
the glow?
The glow of gold wattle on a soft silver
dawning,
With milk mists creeping from a sleeping
gully's side?
Would the cliffs of Dover keep my soul from
mourning
For the home sands gleaming and dream-
ing by the tide?
Would the English posies keep my thoughts
from yearning
To a garden blowing and glowing in the
south,
With its sweet bulb-blossoms and a wind
returning
With sunny showers for a thirsty flower’s
mouth?
Would music falling from a skylark winging
To heaven’s gladness keep the sadness
from my eyes?
Would I not be waiting for the deeper,
richer ringing
Of magpies voicing their rejoicing to the
skies ?
When I glimpsed a homestead in a wooded
hollow,
With roaming cattle homing when the
day is done,
Would my thoughts go winging swifter than
a swallow
To white sheep drowsing and browsing
in the sun?
Browsing in a meadow by a bright stream
purling
With dandelions, playing and swaying in
the breeze,
While from a cosy homestead the smoke
went curling
With intervals of resting in questing
through the trees?
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


THE WORLD’S CHARLADY.
“The mission of revolutionary Russia is to cleanse civilisation.” —Communist manifesto.
MRS. COMMONSENSE: “Let you come In and clean up MY house! The impudence! Go back and clean up your own!”


MAKE YOUR OWN BED
The “HOMEREX” Way
Father Made It
FOR 50X LESS
YOU CAN DO IT, TOO
m
r
Sleep in comfort in a “Homerex” Bed, knowing that you have made it
yourself from the best materials at the most reasonable price.
SINGLE BEDS, £3[3
3ft. wide, in Oak, Maple or Pine.
Enamel supplied with Pine Beds,
r
i ?
Yk
'V-
Father Made It for
50 % Less
and now he sleeps
in comfort.
No Flaws
No Putty Fillings
No Middle Profits
No Tools to Buy
All Accessories, Glue,
Stain and Polish supplied.
No Extra Charge.
Open until 9 p.m. Fridays.
COUPON.
PLEASE POST TO ME FREE
a copy of your illustrated story book-
let on “HOW THE HOBBY FAMILY
SOLVED ALL THEIR TROUBLES.”
Name
Address
“HOMEREX,” 388 George Street, Sydney.
THE BASEMENT
©me Recreations
eorge. Street (ctf'SeurdfUtsoxsi'
Sydney.
Send for free copy-
story, “How the
Family Solved all
Troubles.”
of the
Hobby
Their
We invite you to visit our
“Homerex” Department and
allow us to Demonstrate the
simplicity of our designs.
BRANCHES AT
NEWCASTLE
ORANGE
GOULBURN
88 Hunter Street.
Summer Street.
118 Auburn Street


fs
The
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors; Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), WM. TILLEY (Deputy Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN, ALEX. KING and Dr. C. A. THELANDER.
Total Assets exceed £1,990,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:-
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varyin,- m amount according to the sum assured and no
the' Association “and no" deduction made from policy or bonuses. deduction made frrm noncv or bonuses.
(4i In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be oaid forthwith aud the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost evo'j contingency
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOB SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(O) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
made from policy or bonuses.
GEO BRUCE SMTTH, General Manager.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's Grand Opera
IJnv .. “Scandal
criterion '::;::::: “our
Palace (com. Saturday) .. “The Laughing Optimist
Empire " T ?P
Tivoli - ,•••• Vaudevihe
Majestic (Newtown) Shakspeaiean I lays
Regent Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “The Girl Friend’
Royal “The Patsy
Athen/EUM New Brooms
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving l ictures
Moving Pictures
«.
Judging by the spontaneous outbursts of
enthusiasm which punctuated “L’Amore hm
tre Re,” done for the first time m
Australia at His Majesty’s last week,
Montemezzi’s intense drama could have
headed the grand-opera procession in _ Mel-
bourne instead of being the diamond in its
tail. Musically the work is not modern,
but it takes old Wagnerian and Verdian de-
vices and restates them with a vigor which
sometimes snatches the dagger out of the stage
villain’s hand and puts it in the orchestra s
fist, so to speak. There are no set airs for
pampered prima donnas, but the rhythms of
guilty passion and murderous revenge mingle,
rise to an intolerable height and then col-
lapse around the bier where the strangled
Flora (Scavizzi in high-heeled shoes) lies,
festooned with dead lover and dying husband,
who have sipped her poisoned lips, while the
blind father-in-law who has prepared the
lethal dose gropes about identifying the
slain. The love scene in the second act be-
tween Scavizzi Fiora and Francesco Merh,
as Avito, may possibly go down as the
most fiercely unrestrained exposition of the
untender passion in local operatic history.
To stamping music of extraordinary ferocity,
Autori, as Archibaldo the blind king, felt his
way to Scavizzi’s throat, while that magnifi-
cent creature’s indifferent voice, in describ-
ing her unfaithfulness to his son, Man-
fredo (Granforte), obligingly filled the air
with vocal Braille. Granforte.is always hard
put to it not to look a comic, lad, but his
mellow bass notes were a testimony to the
sincerity of his woe. The best-gownod, best-
HINA SPANI, soprano, who has made her chief hit as the
pathetic Japanese lady of “Madame Butterfly” with the
Melba-Williamson combination.
staged and most brilliantly expounded opera
of the season was provided with only a single
night.
* * *
“Don Pasquale” gave the Taits an oppor-
tunity for trotting out their star exhibit,
Toti, for the last time in Melbourne. A
super woolpress could not have crowded an-
other ecstatic worshipper into His Majesty’s.
“Don P.” has the lightest of musical-comedy
motives, but it bubbles with champagne
melodies, fizzes with soda-water orchestration,
and a dash of sentiment adds the mildest
of bites to the heady beverage, Jwhicli,
although it was uncorked in Paris 85 years
ago, shows no signs of going flat. As Norina,
the girl who undertakes a mock marriage
in order to cure a crusted bachelor of his
taste for matrimony, Dal Monte effervesced
through the three hets, even her counter-
feit shrewishness being cashed in the sound
currency of some wonderful topnotes.
Emilio Ghirardini burst into the foreground
and Fernando Autori’s foolish don was a
masterpiece of low-comedy infatuation. The
critic who feels that a well-balanced criti-
cism requires a note of blame is left with
nothing but the stiff legs of Signor LOmanto.
* •¥ ¥
A more complete stage spectacle than
Saturday night’s “Aida” has never been
seen in Sydney. There is something of
a super-pantomime in the massed effects of
the scene in which all the glories of Egypt
are turned out to greet the return of the
conquering Rhadames, who was represented,
with vocal perfection and a dramatic power
usually absent in operatic tenors, by Fran-
cesco Merli. Giuseppina Zinetti, as the
jealous Amneris, gloating in triumph over
her rival, shared the feminine honors equally
with Arangi Lombardi, who was Aida; and
that is saying a great deal, for Lombardi’s
voice is a delight. Apollo Granforte was an
Amonasro vocally and dramatically efficient ;
he helped Lombardi to make “Ciel mio
Padre” one of the peaks of the evening.
The scenic artists had done some extraordin-
arily good work; one picture of a grove on
the bank of the Nile was particularly effec-
tive. Aida and Rhadames will again die
together musically in their tomb to-night
(Wednesday) and on Friday night. Toti
dal Monte, who on Saturday night sat in
a box and threw floral bouquets at the feet
of the lady principals, stepped on to the
stage on Monday for “The Daughter of the
Regiment,” which is billed for this after-
noon’s matinee. “Lohengrin” comes on
Thursday, “Manon Lescaut” on Saturday
afternoon and “Lucia” on Saturday evening.
# * *
Shura Cherkassky, in spite of the opera,
is magnet sufficient to draw splendid audi-
ences to the Town Flail (Sydney). Shura
approaches his job with air the solemnity of
youth phis the brilliant accuracy of a Back-
bans. His playing has the elusive quality
that characterised
the violin of Hei-
fetz when first Syd-
ney heard him. It
is sheer music, un-
tinged with emo-
tional experiences.
Bach under his
fingers takes on a
dewy freshness as
though the flowers
in some intricately
illuminated address
suddenly breathed
in sweetness. With
the smaller Chopin
works the young-
ster misses some-
thing of the flavor,
but with Beethoven
lie is quite at ease,
wrapped in an ex-
alted calm. His
next concerts are
on Thursday after-
noon and Saturday
evening.
Allan Wilkie
with swift-chang-
ing revivals is
rounding off his
successful season
at the Newtown
(Sydney) Majestic.
“Measure for Mea-
sure,” which is
new, comes in on
Saturday. Fredis-
wy d e Hunter-
Watts, as a gor-
geous-haired Juliet,
listened on her bal-
cony last Saturday
and was Cleopatra
to the Antony of
Wilkie on Monday
and last nigh t.
This afternoon and
to-night- “The
Merchant of Ven-
ice” will have its
last showing. “Hamlet” and - “Othello”
come in for Thursday and Friday nights
respectively.
T V
At Sydney Criterion the Margaret Banner-
man company will replace “Our Betters”
“Sixes and Sevens” on Saturday week. On
Thursday of next week Leon Gordon will
depart from the Royal to make room for
Moscovitch with “The Silent House.
Muriel Starr has revived “Within the
Law,” for the last week of her season at Syd-
new Palace. The play and the 30-weeks’ season
finish on Friday. On Saturday Percy Hut-
chison, with “Tiie Laughing Optimist,” takes
possession of the theatre.
The main impression given by the revival
of old-time melodrama at Sydney Grand Opera
House is that the modern actor has for-
gotten how it
should be served.
In the feeble and
almost apologetic
handling of Charles
Darrell’s “When
London Sleeps ’ the
good steak of the old
days becomes mere
sausage-meat. Still,
the G.Q.H. audi-
ence seems to ap-
preciate the fare,
which has a moder-
ate spicing of com-
edy. “The Face at
the Window” will
make its eerie
appearance on
Saturday.
* #
Very moderately
announced, Jimmy
Kemper burst upon
the Sydney Tivoli
on Saturday with
his vivid character
impressions. Some
good patter helped
Cromwell Knox in
a well-farced jug-
gling turn, a new
marionette show
being anotho r
wortli-wliile addi-
tion.
* *
The London Re-
vue Co. at Fuller’s
has for its leaders
Frank O’Brian,
who is mainly re-
sponsible for the
rapid movement of
the usual medley of
“revue”; Janice
Hart, who puts con-
siderable verve into
one of her songs,
and Bert Lee a
passable comedian.
The inevitable jazz band is attached to the
show, and threatens to become popular.
* # *
A lot Of John Erskine’s “The Private
Life of Helen of Troy” decays to sheer
laughable foolishness in the film version at
Sydney Capitol—satire hfis to be bitter to go
well on the screen. A sensational play like
“The Ghost Train” must benefit by the wider
range over which the camera can chase its
scenes; the picture at the Lyceum includes
a train smash. Hoyt's De Luxe is showing
Lilian Gish in “La Bolieme.” The Regent
on Saturday changes to “The Far Paradise”
from “The Gaucho.”
* ¥ *
The latest gift of the Carrolls to Mel-
bourne will be Leona Hogarth and an Ameri-
can company, who will present “New
Brooms,” a comedy, at the Athemeum on
Saturday. Otherwise alterations of address
are the only threatened changes. “The Girl
Friend,” which has been filling the small
Roya.l, will endeavor to fill the larger His
Majesty’s from July 14 to the end of the
season. “The Patsy” will remove her
appealing visage from the King’s to the
Royal on the same date. The King’s will
yawn emptily for a week; after which “The
Rudd Family” is due. “Rookery Nook”
having faded away from the Comedy, that
theatre will brood on its succession of mis-
fortunes until July 21, when the Vanbrugh-
Boucicaults move in.
* * *
“The Quaker Girl.” at His Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne, on Saturday, was approximately four
times better rouged, powdered and otherwise
theatrically prepared than “Florodora,” the
lamentable 1927 production of the Victorian
Opera Co. Musical-director Hubert Clifford
was mainly responsible for making the sur-
prisingly tuneful numbers go with a swing,
and the sound- comedy manner of William
Greene as Tony Chute helped the dialogue
over some stonv ground. Ida Hall, as Pru-
dence, the Quaker Girl: Frank Brooks, as
Captain Charteris; and Ted Walton, as Jarge
the village crier, were eftective in a generally
even cast.
* # *
The Australian Kelso brothers, with the
“Ace High” revue as the new card in their
pack, are back at Melb. Tivoli, which show-
house is expected to be wreathed in smiles
for some weeks in consequence.
# * *
Harold Lloyd is the • simple-minded hero
who provides all the complicated fun of “The
Kid Brother” at Hoyt’s Melbourne house this
week. The young man who marries against
his father’s wish is the theme of “That Cer-
tain Thing” at the Majestic, but the youth
has more originality than usual. His father
is a wealthy owner of a restaurant, and he
builds rival eating-houses to bring the old
boy to terms.
* * *
Adelaide Royal is changing to “The
Letter,” and giving Miss Vanbrugh her
VICTORIA REGAL in the pyjamas which help to give its name
to “Good News,” the Fuller show at Melbourne Princess.
chance. “All the King’s Horses” was Mc-
Kinnell’s play, and in “The High Road”
the seniors, including Boucicault and Kay
Souper, were content to sit back and con-
tribute a set of superb vignettes, leaving the
main interest to the younger people. The
Regent, Adelaide’s latest picture theatre, has
greatly attracted the public. “The King of
Kings” is still at the Pav.; that picture
has hit Adelaide hard.
“Back Stage”: After 10 years’ agitation
the Actors’ Federation has been informed by
N.S.W. Premier Bavin that Cabinet is con-
sidering legislation to enforce the licensing
of all theatrical managers and agents. The
move follows on a deputation to Chief Secre-
tary Bruntnell, which made alarming asser-
tions that white slavers were carrying _on
their trade under the guise of theatrical
agents. An attempt was made recently to
ship Australian girls to a notorious Manila
cabaret, but the move was frustrated by the
Federation, whose secretary, Chas. Dunn,
put detectives on the trail.
“Spokesliave” : This year’s Little Trouble,
of the Williamson-Melba presentation of
“Butterfly” in Melbourne, was not remark-
able on the histrionic side —she seldom is—
but she had a sentimental interest for opera-
goers. She was born to Signora Tornari
during the Williamson season of 1924, and
a large and distinguished assemblage wit-
nessed the ceremony of christening her Nellie
Melba at St. Pat.’s Cathedral. Last year
she played Trouble to her mother’s Suzuki
at Verona. Dad Tornari has the longest
speaking part of the company. He is the
prompter.
“Spool”: The American film distributors
in Sydney have come off much better than
they make out in the duty squabble with
the Commonwealth Government. Somehow
they got wind that there was likely to be
an increase in duty, and every foot of film
possible was lifted out of bond before the
Commission’s report was tabled. In one day
duty amounting to many thousands of pounds
was paid. Now Sydney censor W. Cresswell
O'Reilly reports the number of pictures sub-
mitted for censorship during recent weeks
has slumped 50 per cent. The explanation
is obvious. With duty up to 2d. per foot
and negotiations for a drop proceeding, the
distributors waited to see which side of the
wall the cat would jump. With duty now
down to lid. business should be as usual at
the Censor's office.


Sp T
For Drives Where Other Belts Fail
Platypus” Waterproof Leather Belting is made to
work under conditions where no other belt will
give satisfaction, on drives where moisture in any
form is present.
“PLATYPUS” WATERPROOF LEATHER BELTING
is absolutely water- and steam-proof, and acid-resistant to a remarkable degree. In Tanneries,
freezing works, dairy factories and other plants where moisture in any form is present, there
is nothing to equal “Platypus” Belting. Manufactured and guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell & Sons,
Simpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & ~ Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson i k Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
ii CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, n.s.w.
Even well-informed people are often amazed to learn that
the average age of men enrolled in the Alexander Hamil-
ton Institute is 37 at the time of enrolment; that 60% are
owners or officers of businesses; that 25% are department
heads and that 15% are clerks and assistants.
The most famous
little Look on
business
ever written.
We will gladly
send you a
complimentary
copy.
fJt
sdf
Modern
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Edwards, Dunlop and Co., Ltd.
i Dividends ~
. . „ £Pf. To Re- Re-
Api., l roflta Prefs. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£££
1918 44,008 4325 10 p.c.= 25,423 14,260 115,110
1919 47,028 4325 10 „ „ 25,423 17,280 132,390
Transferred to capital £50,000 .. 82,390
1920 69.7G6 4325 10 p.c.= 27,923 37,518 119,908
1921 60,328 4325 10 „ „ 35,423 20,580 140,488
1922 61,338 4325 10 „ „ 40,423 16,590 157,078
1923 59,752 4325 10 „ „ 40,423 15,004 172.082
1924 62,047 4325 10 „ „ 40,423 17,299 189,381
1925 65,121 4325 10 „ „ 40,423 20,373 209,754
1926 71,121 4325 10 „ ~ 50,423 16,373 226,127
1927 73,020 4325 10 „ „ 50,423 18,272 244,399
1928 77,020 4325 10 „ „ 60,423 12,272 256,671
This co„ with Sydney headquarters, is a
steady 10 p.c. proposition, with an alluring
future. It was in the paper and wholesale
stationery trade for nearly half a centurv
before the scrip was listed in 1915. The
01-ds. then called for £25,423; last year
the amount was £60,423, of which £5OOO
W3S on account of bonus scrip issued in
1920. The balance represents the require-
ments of £300,000 of new capital issued at
par. Since the market’s opinion of the
scrip has always been a high one, the new
issues have been in the nature of handsome
bonuses to shareholders. The last £lOO,OOO
of new capital was got in shortly before
the close of accounts in 1927, and made
paid capital £690,740 in 86,509 5 p.c. prefs.
and 604,231 ords.
After extracting the pref. div. the balance
of last year’s net earnings was 12.0 p.c. on
average ord. capital compared with 13.6,
13.2, 15 and 14.3 p.c. back to 1924. But a
drop in the rate of earnings was to be ex-
pected, considering the amount of new
money, which can seldom be made to earn
at the same rate as the old funds. Besides,
trade generally was more difficult and the
trend of paper pricesi was again downwards.
One of the factors contributing to the
popularity of the scrip has been the wide
margins between earnings and distributions.
In the last decade no less than 29.6 p.c.
of the total net earnings has remained in
the business, making reserves £256,671,
or Bs. 6d. per ordinary share at April 30.
In addition there is the inner strength, be-
lieved to be substantial. In this connection
it is worth noting that trade fluctuations, in-
cluding some violent movements in the paper
market, have had little visible effect upon
disclosed profits.
Balance-sheet figures are conspicuous on
account of the remarkable strength exhibited,
Here are comparisons covering the last
seven years:—
1921. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital £490,740 £590,740 £690,740 £690,740
Liabilities . . 161,187 141,438 175,956 170,861
Freeholds . . 80,598 110,319 110,319 110,319
Stock.. .. 276,351 186,166 191,796 206,641
Sundry debtors 332,932 469,978 531,080 558,811
Cash and invest-
ments .. 122,406 214,010 300,133 267,368
Over the last two years the more or less
liquid surplus (£861,959), including stocks,
has been strengthened by no less than
£133,243. And the board, whose members
have graduated in the business, makes the
usual announcement that adequate pro-
vision has been made for bad and doubtful
debts and for any decline in the value of
stocks and investments. The latter com-
prise public securities, in at £224,557, and
up £23,451 in the last two years. Over the
same period £20,475 has been visibly added
to stocks (£206,641) and £88,833 to book
debts (£5_58,511). This larger financing of
the printing trade, which is usually in a
hungry condition, must have added greatly
to the turnover.
The market values the ords., which have a
net tangible backing of 28s. 9d., at 365. 6d.;
the return at that price being 5.5 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. It is all very flattering
to the management. The strongly protected
prefs. seldom appear on the market.
Walter Reid and Co., Ltd.
Writ- To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
£ £>£, £, £,
1918.. 50,305 124p.c.=25,000 2,929 22,376 135,900
Transferred to capital, £50,000 .. 85,900
1919.. 30,100 10 p.c.= 25,000 4,446 654 86,554
1920.. 60,964 12$ „ ~ 31,250 5.484 24.230 110,784
1921.. 44,197 10 „ ~ 25,000 2,340 16,857 127.641
1922.. 39.628 10 „ 25.000 2.007 11 ~oi i-o
1923.. 46,418 10 „ ~25,000 2,855 18,563 157,925
1924.. 47,386 12l ~ ~31,250 4,007 12,129 170.054
1925.. 54,235 124,, ~31.250 3,622 19.363 189 417
1926.. 54.181 124 „ ~31,250 3,732 19.199 208.616
1927.. 52,595 14 „ ~35,000 4,324 13,271 221,886
Reserves disclosed, £lB,BlO .. .. 240,696
1928.. 37,418 10 p.c. = 25,000 4,658 7,760 248,456
This general merchandising and agency co.,
with headquarters at Rockhampton, lias a
strong connection in that part of Queens-
land which lias been hit most by the drought
—the Central West. For a while the reduced
spending power of clients in some directions
was more than offset by an increased de-
mand for stock feed, and turnover continued
to expand. But revenue from that source
largely disappeared last year because most
of the sheep left-alive had been removed to
agistment country. The result was a sharp
contraction of £21,125 in the year’s gross
profit (£127,775), but a cut of £5048 in
exes. (£90,357) reduced the final shrinkage
to £15,177. Thus the year's net profit was
written at £27.418, and only once in the last
17 years has it been lower.
After allowing £4(558 for depreciation,
shown as written off in the table, the £82,7(50
that remained was 13.1 p.c. on paid capital
compared with 19.3, 20.2, 20.2 and 17.4 p.c.
back to 1924. Considering the difficulties
in the path last year’s result was surpris-
ingly good, and that was largely because of
the board’s sound policy in building up, in-
ternally, “a bad and doubtful debts reserve
fund sufficient to cover any losses which a
prolongation of the drought condition’s may
bring about.” But until the drought defi-
nitely breaks future earnings are uncertain,
so the board clipped 4 points off the pre-
vious year’s distribution, reducing the rate
to 10 p.c. and making the average 114 p.c.
for the last 10 years. To old shareholders,
of course, that is worth much more than it
looks. The £95,750 of paid capital with
which the co. started in 1902 has grown to
£250,000 with the 'aid of only £11,250 of
cash subscriptions. Cast year the insurance
fund (£18,830 at May 31, 1927), not hitherto
included in the reserves shown in the intro-
ductory table, was added to the equalisation
of dividends fund, the net increase in re-
serves amounting to £lB,BlO. This with
£7760 of the year’s surplus earnings made
the visible lay-by £248,456, equal to 19s.
lid. per share.
The co.’s finances are in good shape, as
this comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows
1920. 1926. 1927 * 1928
Paid capital £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities .. 137,738 97,971 88,001 73,428
Stocks .. 211,318 255,266 261,063 223,668
Book debts .. 149,448 164,467 133.934 110,977
Cash.. .. 33,517 42,478 62,605 70,744
Freeholds and
investments 140,558.131,855 153,615 178,995
At May 31 the outside debt (£73,428) was
only a few thousand pounds greater than
the cash holding (£70,744). Book debts
(£110,977) and stocks (£223,668) together
represent 57.2 p.c. of the total assets. Much
therefore depends upon whether the pro-
vision for contingencies proves to be suffi-
cient. The true liquid position is obscured
by the lumping of “properties. A.U.S.N.
Co. shares, Commonwealth and State loans,
etc.,” at £178,995 (up £25,380). That a
substantial part is in public securities may
be gathered from the chairman’s comforting
assurance that “our Government investments
will help us ever the difficult times ahead.”
The market, which looks at the past, ex-
presses its confidence in the co.’s future by
offering 355. for the scrip. The return at
that price is only 5.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c, div.
basis
Robert Harper and Co., Ltd.
Reserves
(Assets
Dividends. include
r- A \ £BO.OOO
“A” “B” of
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Good-
Mar., Profits. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, will).
£ £ £ £ £ £
1918.. 39,517 9,450 19.200 496 10,371 31,043
1919.. 39.105 10,500 19.200 496 8,909 39 952
1920.. 45.808 10.500 19.200 496 15.612 55.564
1921.. 38,125 10,500 19.200 600 7,825 63,389
1922.. 41.020 10,500 19,200 600 10,720 74.109
Inner reserves disclosed ..80,000 154.109
1923.. 46,016 10,500 19.200 600 15.716 169.825
1924.. 50,469 10,500 19,200 1050 19.719 189,544
1925.. 61,488 10,500 19,200 1425 20,363 209,90?
1926.. 50,453 10.500 19.200 1500 19,253 229,160
1927.. 49,443 10,500 19,200 1800 17,943 247,103
1928.. 49,617 10,500 19,200 1800 18,117 265,220
Although trading conditions for most cos.
were more difficult last year this old-estab-
lished dry-goods house, specialising in “Eas-
tern” l ; nes. shows a better net profit than in
the previous term. Nevertheless, the £39.117
that remained after handing the prefs. their
£lO 500 was no more than 14.4 p.c. on
average ord. capital compared with 14.4. 15,
15.2 and 15.7 p.c. back to 1924, and there
is a suggestion in those figures that trading
has not been any easier of late. In the
last five years £lO,OOO was got in on the
employees’ “B” shares, but the direct in-
fluence of that in a paid capital of £420.000
must be slight. Of more importance is the fact
that in the same period £95 ’’Oo equal to
7s. 6d. per ord. share, or 37.8 p.c. of the
total net earnings, has remained in the busi-
ness, making the visible accumulation
£265.220. subject to £BO,OOO of goodwill at
March 31. The results achieved are all the
more remarkable because as much as ss. 2d.
of every £1 of tangible assets is in Govern-
ment securities (£124,025) and cash
(£49,698) ; furthermore, the eo. is manufac-
turing and handling some lines that have
proved a trap fo»* many traders. It all looks
uncommonly like general high efficiency, in-
cluding extra-good buying.
Last year the co. sold one of its pro-
perties at Fort Melbourne. The profit, un-
disclosed. was used to write down the book
value of other freeholds : but owing to sub-
stantial additions to the Brisbane warehouse,
the property item (£154,227)—it represents
the co.'s factory and other premises in four
States —increased £9025 during the year.
Plant (£57.577) is actually £28,685 less
than the figure at which it stood 10 years
ago. notwithstanding substantial additions
meanwhile. Thus it may be taken that
assets are all they look—and more.
Hire is a comparison of balance-sheet
items:—
1919. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. 398,268 415,000 420,000 420,000
Mortgages.. .. 35,733
Deposits .. . . 31,318
Overdraft ~ .. 72,103
Sundry creditors.. 94,014 57,636 44,214 50,934
Freeholds .. .. 135,682 145,413 145,202 154,227
Plant, etc. .. 81,769 65,291 69,858 57,577
Leaseholds .. 400
Stock .. ..234,710 176,092 127,286 144,324
Sundry debtors ..145,856 139,378 144,742 141,916
Government securi-
ties, cash, etc... 22,367 112,221 169,980 173,859
The increase of £17,038 in stocks (£144,324)
reflects a rise in the price of the co.’s com-
modities. The entry carries the label “at
not exceeding cost,” a suggestion that some-
thing has been allowed for contingencies.
The year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£409,165), including stocks,
was £11,371.
Looking at the business as a whole this
extraordinary improvement is visible since
1918:
1918. 1928.
Liquid assets .. £428,668 £460,099 Inc. £31,431
Fixed assets .. ■ 224,094 211,804 Dec. 12,290
Total assets . . £652,762 £671,903 Inc. £19,141
Liabilities .. .. 272,822 50,934 Dec. 221,888
The new capital got in during that time
was £21,623, so shareholders are visibly
£219,406 better off than they were 10 years
back. Moreover, the disclosure of £BO,OOO
of. inner reserves in 1922 suggests, that
things are very comfortable inside. The
declared idea behind the steady piling up of
liquids and the reserve strength is the ex-
tension of the business. Of recent years :
nothing of importance has happened in that
direction, but during the current and subse-
quent terms such opportunities may occur,
the chairman says.
The market, which is prepared to wait
for the benefits which it considers must
come when some of the surplus funds find
more remunerative employment, pays 335. 9d.
for the ords. whenever they come on to
the market —until a few years ago family
and other “inside” interests held the whole
240,000 tight. At that price the investor
buys an immediate return of 4.7 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis, and 425. Id. in net tan-
gibles. For the well protected 7 p.c. cum.
prefs.., which have priority as to capital,
225. is paid. The return at that figure is
6,3. p.c., and last year’s net profit was
more than four times their annual require-
ments. The backing amounts to £4 11s. 4d.
in net tangibles.
H. McKenzie, Ltd. (Sydney).
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 22,264 20 p.e. = 26,000 103,389
1919.. 29,468 15 „ „ 19,500 9,968 113,357
Reserves capitalised. £52,000 .. 61,357
Bonus shares to employees, £2,698.. 58,659
1920.. 43,409 15 p.c. = 27,570 15,839 74.498
1921.. 45,305 20 „ „ 36,940 8,365 82,863
Profit on sale of asset, £1,152 .. 84.015
1922.. 26,780 10 p.e.'= 20,991 5,789 89.804
Profit on sale of assets, £12,416.. 102,220
1923.. 27,407 10 p.c. = 27,407 102,220
1924.. 11.809 4 „ „ 11,788 21 102,241
Loss
1925.. 34,560 Nil. 67,681
Deficit.
Assets written down, £70,000 .. 2,319
Reserves.
Capital written down, £73,674 .. 71,355
Profit on sale of assets, £2,651.. 74,006
1926.. 11,527 Nil 62,479
Loss on sale of assets, £15,703 ~ 46,776
Deficit.
Reserves disappear, £64,281 .. 17,505
1927.. 3,73.8 Nil 21,243
Reserves.
Capital written down, £22,102 .. 859
Profit on sale of assets, £1172 .. 2,031
1928.. 107 Nil 1,924
Operations resulted in a net profit of £1063,
the chairman says; but that was after
taking in a surplus of £1095 from the sale
of the co.’s Glebe Island assets and £7B
from shares in other cos. Ordinary trad-
ing operations again showed a loss (£107).
The year's gross profit (£59,587) improved
£5714 and exes. (£54,524) were only £686
heavier; but larger provision was made for
depreciation—£sl7o as against £3773 in
the previous term. Considering the severe
depression in the trade, not much else was
to be expected.
This co. has had more than the ordinary
difficulties of the industry. Much of it’s
trouble began in 1922, when a subsidiary,
H. McKenzie (Q’ld), Ltd., was formed tc
take over the Fraser Island proposition and
an interest was bought in the Patrick line ol
steamships. The immediate effect was that
shares in other cos. jumped from £15,250 tc
£120,250. Both these investments, however,
proved disastrous. The Fraser Island lease
had a currency of only 8£ years, which
meant that depreciation had to be provided
for at the rate of Ilf p.c. p.a.; also the life
of the heavy plant was practically limited to
that of the lease, owing to the heavy cost
of removal.
Under the best of other conditions it would
therefore have been difficult to pull out on
the X’ight side. Actually the timber trade
went all awry. In 1925 a trading loss of
£34,560 showed up; and it was found neces-
sary to strike £70,000 off the book value of
shares in other cos. In an effort to right
the position a cut of £73,674 (ss. per share)
was made in capital. But it was not enough,
in view of further trading losses in 192 G
and 1927 and a loss of £15,703 on the sale
of the Queensland co.’s assets. At this stage
£64,281 of reserves disappeared, while on
the other side of the sheet shares in other
cos. were reduced from £35,020 to £7O, and
the book value of stocks (£59,036) de-
creased £32,118. One way and another that
left the co. with a deficit of £21.243 at
March 31, 1927. In order to clean the slate
a further cut of £22,102 (Is. 6d. per share)
was made in capital, and in addition another
Is. 6d. per share was returned to share-
holders _ “out of available cash not required
for business purposes.” Paid capital is now
£176 819 in 294,698 fully-paid 12s. shares.
During the last term operations were
transferred from Glebe Island, where the
lease had run out, to the co.’s freehold at
Rhodes. The new mill is reported to be
running satisfactorily, and assets generally
are claimed to be sound and well maintained.
The following table shows how their book
values have moved :
1924. 1927 1928.
Paid capital .. .. £294,698 £221,023 £176,819
Liabilities .. .. 38,409 3,243 4,892
Book debts 1 [ 33,829 35,511
Cash, etc. .. } 49,801 i 5,768 4,104
Deposits at short call J [ 30,000
Shares in other cos. .. 105,020 70 1,810
Freehold, plant, etc. .. 105,503 92,181 99,731
Stocks 175,023 59,036 63,823
The financial position is comfortable. But
the more or less liquid surplus (£98,546),
including stocks (£63,823), was £4742 less
than at the previous balance after allowing
for £22,102 of capital returned. Much de-
pends upon what provision, if any, has been
made for contingencies apart from contribu-
tions to the depreciation reserve (£21,345),
which was drawn upon for £1685 last year
and is not included with reserves above.
Competition in the 'trade is still keen and
the outlook by no means promising.
The market’s opinion is that the scrip is
worth 7s. The backing amounts to a whisper
oyer 20s. per £1 of paid capital. But it is
of course necessary to take into account the
nature of the assets.
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd. (Melbourne).
Added Reserves
to lie- (Nomi-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves. nal).
£ £ £ £
1918.. 29,663 10 p.c. = 21,426 8,237 129,390
918.. 29,663 10 „ „ 21,426 8,237 129,390
1919.. 28,637 10 .. ~ 22.525 6,112 135,502
1920.. 27,938 10 ~ ~22,812 6,126 140,628
1921.. 8,009 7i „ „ 19,018 - 129,619
1922.. 11,844 6 „ „ 17,050 124,413
1923.. 29,606 7 „ „ 20,326 9,280 133,693
Insurance reserve taken in .. 1,200 134,893
Reserves.
Goodwill written off, £40,000 .. 94 893
1924.. 33,890 8 p.c. = 23,651 10,245 105,138
1925.. 29,966 9 ~ „ 27,000 2,966 108,104
1926.. 30,172 8 „ ~ 24,000 6,172 114,276
1927.. 24,663 8 „ „ 24,000 663 114,939
1928.. 22,082 7 ~ „ 21,000 1,082 116,021
Trading conditions were unfavorable. On
the heels of a dry spell, monetary stringency
and the moratorium in the Vic. Mallee came
a still more unsettled state in Asia which
did not help the co. with the export trade
it had built up in that quarter. One way
and another gross profit (£45.295) fell away
£2003, while £578 was added to exes.
(£23,213) ; thus the year’s net result
(£22,082) shrank to 7.3 p.c. on capital com-
pared with 8.2, 10, 9.9 and 11.6 p.c. back
to 1924, when gross profit was £54,426 and
exes. £20,531. That is to say, while the
cost of administering the business has
steadily increased over the last four years,
gross profits have been consistently on the
decline, despite the fact that paid capital
(£300.000) had the assistance of an extra
£21,128 of reserves (£116,021) at April 28-
Although a point was knocked off the div.,
which called for £3OOO less than in the pre :
vious year, the margin was none too wide.
A few years ago the co. added ice-cream
to its long list of manufactures. It was
hoped that this addition would assist the
demand for the co.’s wafer-biscuits, but no
hint has been given as to whether the new
department is paying its way. One factor
that has probably contributed to the dis-
appointing behavior of profits has been the


A-
-4T
V-
W 'TC-
? 'A^>s!A''> , A(£ AArA*
f*-5<
&&&**&
Jf^XZ
2
m
Air*!
7»v
«£
r
/^O
a y/iaiWß
K W
1'
sn
r<s /i i« »
, 2Ti~-" >-.
«£f^=
&
Si
IL
.'A'A,tvi
•V^vC
1 ■' c
■ifrA
an
I
SaH
V^mkui'M
49
2*=^
IWj
$
a:.
iW"Pr?
{/
J
S
/: /ii
J
/I
8K
v\
K
8^
' ®
w
Ws
S
a a
AS
limn
i\m^
A:
\V
5^
',i
#/r»
i> ,j
(L
fg i,,' .
£i3 l# v
i /m%' **..-*.
AKA
&
t.l
mi
IS
ea
pg
AO 9,^
(Pi
cf >U
mwr
nj ri^FTT
mm
&ZJsPjc^
fcggT!|£
5, I
uvfs '•
M
m
m
m
f
Aoe
&
I
p
M
II
*>
t
m'
- \
HAMPION RESERVE
PORT
A
*3d
BOTTLED BY THE MAKERS
THOMAS HARDY &SONS LIMITED
3 „ eu AIDE MELBOURNE & SYDnev
AUSTRALIAN Wlrue EY
s
*> *V «£ * 9*
C, aide MELBOURNE & SYDnev
IqUTH AUSTRALIAN Wl N e EY
1 PINT 6 FLUID OZS.""
ft
A.<l
*m\
m
i=E'
i
o
Ns-
-<—'
Fortunate Tintara
GOLD-tinted by the rays of a happy sun,
the broad vinefields of Tintara smile
and gladden to a rich success, The repu-
tation of Hardys renowned Tintara wines
was, year after year, built here. The dominat-
ing factors of purity and excellence which have
placed Hardys Champion Reserve Wines
(Gold Label) on a plane of their own, were
created on the glowing fields of Tintara. When
you call for Hardy’s Gold Label wines you
know that 80 years ago age was given to this
fine vintage—age which gives every advantage
to an organisation that to-day can supply the
very finest wines at a price within the reach
of all. At this season of the year every home
should possess Hardy’s wines, and no present
would be more appreciated than a bottle or
case of Hardy’s Champion Reserve Gold Label
Wines.
Procurable in all Hotels and Licensed
Stores where the proprietors are
proud to specialise in high-grade


Financing Factories.
Big Money in it.
This is one of many matters “THE
‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY” for July
discusses.
Saturation Point:
Has it been reached?
That’s another point discussed.
The Investor can’t do without it.
NOW READY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/(5.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Pertli.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock + GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * =!= *
For service and saving Pioneer Wood Pipe is
putting up some notable records. This modern wood
product has some big advantages over other types
of pipe. It is very light, weighing only about
one-third as much as metal, therefore it is easy
to handle and simple to instal. It does not corrode,
the capacity remains consistent, and it is safe from
freezing. On every count—purchase, installation and
service—it shows good savings. Particulars from
the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Bums Bay
Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Vic.
—Advt.
* * * *
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting 1
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* « * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 “Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
02
EL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Pus 9
Detonators
Cartridr'is
ADFIELDS
AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadlields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and
Foundries
i Alexandria, Sidney, N.S.W.
i Bassendean, Perth. W.A.
Branch
Office
( 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
\ T. & G. Building, Brisbane. Q
The “Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of
RENDROCK,
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known,
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight,
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney
difficulty of passing increased costs on to
the consumer; few things are so liable to
disturb the popularity of a dry-goods line
as price fluctuations from month to month.
A gratifying feature of the report is the
management’s decision to launch an attack
upon costs by a re-organisation of manufac-
turing methods. The factory is to be elec-
trified, and internal alterations made. But
before shareholders can look for much benefit
from improved earning there is the over-
draft (£119,719) to occupy the board’s atten-
tion. It seems likely that this item will be
greater before it is less.
To meet the heavy outlay on fixed assets
(£43o,342)—their book value grew £103,569
in the last four years—the co. has had to go
into debt, as this comparison of balance-
sheet figures shows: —
1924. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Capital .. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Overdraft .. 45,335 95,644 112,918 119,719
Mortgages, etc. 17,000 25,900 25,900 25,900
Other debts. . 48,405 57,266 61,324 52,910
Fixed assets.. 326,773 392,827 424,128 430,342
Stocks .. 108,211 128,671 110,336 110,016
Book debts, etc. 92,732 83,646 91,619 82,280
Cash, etc. . . 981 873 998 912
Stocks (£110,016), in partly at cost and
partly at valuation, are only £lBO5 heavier
than they were four years ago, and over the
same period book debts (£82,280), less
reserve for bad and doubtful debts, are
£10,452 lighter, which does not reflect the
expansion of trade that the growth i” fixed
assets suggests. At April 28, liabilities,
including the mortgage (£25,900), were
£5321 in excess of the more or-’ess lioui ’s,
whereas the surplus of the latter over the
former was £91,184 at the close of accounts
in 1924.
Whether the profits claimed have been
earned depends largely upon whether suffi-
cient has been set aside out of earnings to
cover depreciation on plant (£164.214, up
£4475 during the year), rolling stock, etc.,
(£92.058, up £832) and freeholds (£174.070,
up £906). The 100,000 fully paid £1 prefs.
have priority as to capital and a cumulative
6 p.c., and advance with the ords. beyond
that rate. Last year’s net profit was over
three times their minimum requirements
and the cover amounts to ,£4 3s. 2d. in net
tangibles. The ords. are 305., paid to £l,
and their net tangible backing amounts to
31s. 2d. mostly in plant worth what it
can earn. The market prices the prefs. at
21s. 6d., and the ords. at 18s. 3d.; the
return at those figures is 6.5 p.c. and 7.6
p.c. respectively on a 7 p.c. basis.
To finance further development, Roma Oil
Oorp., Ltd., is offering 25,000 £1 shares, one
for two held, at a premium of £1 to those
on the register at August 14. Paid capital
is now £48,598 in f.p. £1 shares. In the co.’s
No. 2 bore, now down about 3000 ft., gas
showed at 2859 ft., and again at 2889 ft. At
2907 ft. a change was made from the 6in. to
the 4in. pipe; drilling continues. Buyers
offer £6 for the scrip, equal to £4 15s. after
exercising rights.
* * * *
Eastern Roma Oilfields, Ltd., a Queensland
float with a nominal capital of £250,000 in
£1 shares, is offering 200,000 shares, 2s.
each application and allotment and the bal-
ance in calls. The vendors, A. S. Thornton
and T. McLaughlin, take £l5 000 in paids
and 35,000 shares are in pickle. The pro-
perty, held under permit No. 122, comprises
the usual 10.000 acres about 10 miles east
of Roma. St. Smith inspected, and says
the petroliferous gas horizon should be met
with at about 3200 feet, and that a broad
anticlinal structure to the north probably
passes through the block.
* * * *
Queensland Mines Department has received
225 applications for petroleum prospecting
permits in seven districts. So far 129 have
been granted, and the Minister has approved
the prospectuses of 46 cos. Excepting half
a dozen all the cos. are registered outside
Queensland. Australian Oil Industries,
Block A, Ltd., to block Z, Ltd., accounts for
26 of them.
* x- * *
The Seymour Coal Mining Co., which con-
trols some seams on the Speck’s east coast,
has let a £13,000 contract for a new jetty
for ships of 24ft. draught, to be finished in
six months. Two sets of rails will connect
with the tunnel mouth, which is- quite handy.
It is claimed that a flawless sft. seam has
been struck at the 160 ft. level and tested
for four miles; also that the stuff can be
loaded on ships at 6s. 6d. a ton. The out-
put aimed at is 2000 tons in eight hours,
and South Aus. is to be the main market.
# * * *
Things are beginning to move again on
the Speck’s West Coast belt. Lyell has
completed its 7000 ft. tunnel at a cost of
£6OOO after 14 months’ constant work from
both ends in three shifts. The hole connects
the North Lyell, and will save enormously
in time and cost when the double line for
electric haulage is installed. A certain
amount of metalliferous country was passed
through, but the co. is not making a song
about it. New copper refineries also have
been completed. Block 14 is to be formed ta
work some promising outcrops on 80 acres >. j
country now pegged out. Information from;
Zeehan is that the site is that of the om‘
Tasman and Crown Lyell mine, since lieljj
by the Horseshoe Syndicate. ,J. Cornish wa J
largely responsible for discovering a dense
sulphide body of large proportions, said t.
be rich in minerals, particularly zinc. Tii
Packer’s Creek T.M. Co. has been formed t
work the Cliff mine at South Heemskirk,:
near Zeehan. Insufficient plant, not enough
water for power and only iB(J a ton for t.n
were the reasons why it languished. Hos-
kins’s Iron and Steel Co. has held for years
iron deposits estimated at over 29,000,009
tons at the Rio Tinto (in the Savage River
osmiridium country) and another locality
near Zeehan. Though the deposits have
not been exactly a hive of industry, the
co. has done sufficient work to comply with
the labor covenants. As a result of the
amalgamation with Dorman, Long and
others, there may be something doing there,
too.
* * *!■ *
Operators on the tin field in north-east
Tasmania want hydro-electric power to
cheapen their costs. 11. A. Curtis, general
manager of the State’s power scheme, found
some cos. had been making their own cur-
rent for years, and others in a smaller way
would not guarantee a decent consumption
—they could hardly be expected to, being “no
liability” ventures. As the erection of the
main would mean a big expense, Curtis
assessed his charges accordingly and offered
current at £ll per h.p. The cos. replied that
that was not “cheap” power. They then
pinned their hopes on Parliament. But the
area looks like getting power through an
unexpected channel. Mines Director A. M.
Reid recommended the Blue Tier territory
to the Federal D. and M. Commission.
This territory embraces the Anchor and other
mines which petered out because they were
on a small scale. A Committee was set up to
examine the proposition, the personnel in- •
eluding Briseis manager Lindesay Clark and
his son, Cecil Ryan (Pioneer’s manager),
Reid and Curtis. The committee has just
laid out sites for intensive boring on the
southern slop's of the Tier with the dia-
mond drill now testing for Tasmanite Shale
nt Latrobe. The objective will be to prove
deposits which can be- worked on four or five
faces with a tramway system feeding big
lectric cranes and a plant of 6000 tons a
day capacity. That will make a power ex-
tension inevitable.
* * * *
Two Japs, a geologist and a ship’s cap-
tain, were ferried from Cape Lcvique to
Yampi Sound (W.A.) the other dnv to
inspect and report to the Asano Co.. Tokio,
concerning the immense iron d posits there.
If their report is satisfactory, which is
considered a certainty, the Asano Co. will
contract to purchase at the ship’s side, from
the Sydney-Perth syndicate which holds a
lease of the deposits, 150.000 tons for the
first year and 300,000 tons in each of the
second and third years. Meanwhile Jock
Thomson, ex-Westralian M.L.A. and. mining-
man, is endeavoring to raise English and
Scottish capital to provide the necessary
plant for breaking and delivering the ore.
* * * *
Word comes from London that Golden
Horseshoe is not going on with the sale
to Claude de Bornales and friends, but has
induced the Transvaal Agency, Ltd., and
some French banks to subscribe and guaran-
tee sufficient capita] to give the co. another
start. The story of the bid made by eager
buyers for the Horseshoe is an interesting
one. First Lake View and Star, Ltd., after
having had its offer rejected, held off in the
hope of getting what it wanted at its own
price. Later Claude de Bern ales, who has
probably introduced more capital into West-
rali'a than any other mining man there,
quietly negotiated and finally induced the
Horseshoe co. to accept his terms, including
a few thousands to pay writ-issuing creditors.
Later still the Hors<'shoe board dropped
De Bernales, and the Transvaal Agency and
French banks then made a deal.
X * :!: *
The mines of the newly amalgamated
North Kalgurli-Oroya. Links. Ltd., are being
investigated by chairman Whitfield, who re-
cently arrived from London. The only two
blocks held by the co. that appear to hove
any reserves are Croesus Prop, and North
Ivalgurli. The former is reckoned to have
about 100.000 tons of 295. or- 1 in sight, ar.d
the latter approximately 40p300 tons of
31s. stuff. Under present working conditions
they make an unpayable pair in double har-
ness, but further development at depth may
supply a different aspect.
* Hi * He
McCahons Co. is having the time of its
life at Westonia (W.A.). Shares have
soared far beyond expectations and are
tipped to go higher still. Both an “old”
and a “new” lode are being worked and ore
so far blocked out above water level is
estimated to be worth from £50.000 to
£60,000. As water level means an ocean at
AVestonia, shareholders had better beware
when that point is reached.
* * * *
Chairman Poole whooped at the Lake View
(Trust meeting about the co.’s financial posi-
tion. lie said that the amount of its invest-
ments, at or under cost, was £1,562,182, or
n increase of £193,909 compared with the
previous year’s figure. The valuation of the
eo.'s widespread investments showed a sur-
plus exceeding £600.000 over the aggregate
’at which they figured in the balance-sheet.
* * *. *
Westralia’s latest gold find, which appears
to be better than tiie average, is at Twin
Hills, north of Menzies. Two or three
parties are reported to have something that
will stand inspection, and one or two options
have been taken by Adelaide.
* , * * *
Ratrut Basin has been shifting its plant
from near Rcnong, Western Siam, to Sichon,
Eastern Siam, wiiere the original dredge is
expected to begin work about the middle of
this month. Owing to delays, the new dredge
is not expected to get busy until the close of
the year. Accounts for the year to December
31, A)27, show a loss of £1867. The original
dredge worked only four and a half months
on low values, showing a working loss of
£927. Not desiring to further increase capi-
tal, a loan of £30,000 has been arranged.
IT-sp cting licenses have been secured over
1000 acres adjoining the Sichon property,
and a few scout bores indicate good values.
The two dredges should have a combined
monthly capacity of 230,000 c.y., and as the
22i million yards already proved on the
Sichon area are estimated to go from 28 to
12 oz., high hopes are entertained.
* * * *
Changkat’s second annual report is cheer-
ful. An adjoining lease of 88 acres has
been taken up. increasing the holding to
482 acres. Paid capital is £130,000, and
at December 31 liabilities totalled £10,479.
fq aggregate £14 7 980; property,
£551.90; dredge, £6O 666; plant, etc.,
£14.719; cash, £6345; development,
£lO 988; preliminary exes., £7l. The pound
shares are at 435. on the market.
* # *
Tinsongklah Tin, Siam, a Melbourne,
float with a paid capital of £140,500, re-
cently got its dredge to work in clayey
ground. The area, some 200 acres, lias
been bored for as high as 17oz. Water is
scarce at present, and only 10 or 12 hours
can be worked daily. The big dredge is of
140,000 c. y. capacity, but the clay may
be a problem. It is estimated that the
ground holds £BOO.OOO worth of tin at £2OO
a ton London. The first dredging returns
will b£ awaited with interest.
* * * *
That rumored amalgamation of Serendah,
Serendah South, Rawang and Rawang Con-
cessions remains a rumor. Consideration of
the matter was suspended in view of the
condition of the London money market and
the flop in everything connected with tin-
mining. Indeed, no one need be surprised to
hear that one or two of the recent big amal-
gamation deals are hung up in a half-com-
pleted condition.
* * X- *
Phin Soon, the Malay Siamese open-cast
proposition, is up for sale. The property was
bought by the present co. for £116,665 in
Jan., 1926. Costs are the trouble, as they
always are with open-cut shows. The scrip,
wlr'ch at one time touched 275., is now
around 2s.
v •!• $ *js
Asia Amalgamated Tin Syndicate, which
registered in Melbourne in 1926 as Asia Tin
Syndicate, has exercised an option over 175
acres near Sichon, estimated to contain
12,000,000 c.y., averaging 17.60 z. It was
bored by W. P. McKenzie, who figures
(with costs of over 5d.) a net profit of
37 p.c. p.a. on, a capital of £150,000.
* $ *
Timor Petroleum Co. was floated two years
ago. Tanks full of seepage oil were exhibited
in Melbourne and attracted buyers of shares.
Recently two directors. F. Nomens and A.
J. Staugliton, went to Timor to find out why
oil had not been struck at; depth. The’ bore-
hole that was drilled did what boreholes
often do in tropical climates —it wobbled,
and the bit at the end of the drilling rig
became fast. However, while the directors
were there the old borehole, which for many
years had been used to attract capital, started
to overflow with hot water and oil. So six
new drilling sites have been selected to test
the strata at 300 ft., and more drilling is
to be done. Also an extra 4500 acres, where
oil was reported to have been found some
years ago, have been taken up. A bank,
manager at Dilly has been appointed agent
of the co., the idea being to put the work on
a sounder footing.
* * * *
Alluvial Tin has been asked to extend the
time for the settlement with Tin Invest-
ments. A deposit of £50.000 was paid in
May, and the date of settlement fixed for
.Tune 30. The time has been extended to
September 30.
Additional Malayan returns for June sug-
gest that the drop in prices has keened up
the dredges. Though Selayang dug only
95,000 yards as against 110,000 for May, the
return was 33 tons compared with 28 for
May, and the average .771 b., as against
.571 b.; average for last quarter was -681 b.;
costs, 5.11 d. per c.y. Larut’s turnover rose
to 352,000 yards, the largest of the quarter,
and the recovery was 91 tons averaging
.581 b., an improvement in each case. Quar-
terly average, ,551 b.; costs were 4.53 d. Jela-
pang did not flatter its backers, recording-
-22 tons from 107,000 yards, May’s figures
being 20 tons from 85,000 yards. June’s
average was .461 b., as against .521 b. in
May; the quarter’s was .571 b., and costs
4.18 d. Takuapa put through 145,000 yards
for 36 tons. The recovery was the same in
May, but yardage was then 135,000; averages
dropped from .591 b. to .561 b.
Kampong Kamunting recovered 97 tons
from 146,000 yards, which suggests the pad-
dock was picked for the occasion. May’s
recovery was 374 tons and the average .871 b.
June average went 1.471 b., bringing the
quarter’s to I.lolb. Costs for June, 4.9 d.
Asam went back a trifle, recovering 38 tons
from 111,000 yards, the June figures being
35J tons from 102,0(X). June average
(.761b.) was a point less than May’s. June
costs were 4.3 d. Ulu Yam, with 29 tons
from 106,000 yards, was also a little shy.
The Juno average, .611 b., dropped 10 points.
Costs, 4.7 d.
Thabawleik’s 27 tons from 53,000 yards
averaged 1.141 b.; costs, 14.6 d., which dims the
performance. May’s average was .951 b. for
57,000 yards, and the figures for the quarter
1.021 b. per c.y. Nawng Pet, the Malay Siam-
ese sluicing show, put through 24,600 yards
for 20 tons; average, 1.821 b.; cost, 13.77 d.
The previous month’s average was 2.161 b.;
quarter’s, 1.731 b. Ilaad Yai dropped to
24,000 yards, but the 23 tons averaged
2.141 b. as against 1.63 for May; costs,
17.39 d. Huey Yot improved with 24 tons
from 36,000 yards, averaging 1.491 b.. the best
for the quarter. Costs here were 18.5 d.


The first woman
to //y^reAUattlic
used
Mobiloil..
' The World* Qualify Oil
Piloted by Mr. Wilmer Stultz and Miss Amelia
Earhart, the seaplane “Friendship” recently made
a non-stop flight from Canada to Wales. Miss
Earhart is the first woman to successfully fly the
• Atlantic, and in this, as in other pioneer flights
Mobiloil played a leading part
-4
Some of Many Other Mobiloil
Achievements in the Air :
Lindbergh’s Sole New York-Paris Flight.
Round'-the-World Flight.
Byrd’s Pioneer Flight Over the North Pole.
Record Flights Around Australia.
' ‘ ' 'Etc.
The Same Quality Mobiloil used for all these successes is
available at your local garage or service station.
8 M 19


THE NEW STADIUM.
“An agreement has been come to between the Commonwealth Government and W.A. Airways, Ltd., for an air service between Perth and Adelaide ."
THE NEWCOMER: “Say, Mister, you might book me to meet the winner."


PEAPES
—for men AND their sons.
Value depends on quality more
than on price. No article is
cheap unless it is reliable.
It is because Peapes’ prices are
always moderate for men’s and
boys’ wear of the highest quality
that one can buy from Peapes
with the confidence of receiving
the utmost value.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
The “Fx & R” Man’s Wrist Watch.
;
1
m
£~3
m
■■ - ■
m
The “Fx & R” Man’s Silver Wrist Watch,
complete with strap, £5/5/-
Made to stand up to hard
wear and knocking about.
It is a f-plate lever watch.
It is jewelled in 15 holes.
It has adjusted and compensated
balance.
It has brequet hair spring.
It has luminous dial and hands.
It has unbreakable glass.
It has heavy solid silver case.
Guaranteed for fifteen years. Kept
in order one year free (breakages
excepted .)
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
S/7
fr
vfi'/r
Where Perfect Cuisine, Beautiful
Surroundings and the Spirit of
Revelry Combine to Make a
Memorable Evening’s Enjoyment.
Come Soon :: Come To-night.
You’ll be glad you came.
MONDAY, TUESDAY', WEDNESDAY,
THURSDAY, FRIDAY.
DINNER DE LUXE, 7.30 12/6
SUPPER, from 10 o’clock 8/6
SATURDAY'—
LATE NIGHT OF DISTINCTION.
A Superb Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
Special Supper, 10 o’clock .. 12/6
True Relaxation, Substituting Joy and Delight.
DELIGHTFUL TEA DANSANT, WITH
SPARKLING CABARET,
3 to 5, 4/-; 6 up, 3/6.
Saturday, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Ordcr Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“J. Possum” : The ueddie that persists in
returning to its native run (B. 13/6/’2S)
is sometimes a valuable asset. Some years
back a selector on the Bananaland coast
owned a moke that simply refused to remain
away from the paddock in which he had
spent his baby days. lie was a fine-looking
animal, and changed hands a number of
times at a substantial figure;
but when the purchaser had
cursed himself hoarse and run
himself dog-poor in chasing after
his property, the original owner,
as a special favor, was always
allowed to buy back the whin-
nier at something less than half
the original price. No ordinary
fence would hold the homer. If
he couldn’t hop the barrier or
crawl through it he’d deliberately
set to work to batter it down.
* * !]:
“Naturalist”: “Pick” is not
right when he says (B.
13/G/’2B) that Mrs. ’Possum
fills the cradle but once a year.
She nurses two sets of babies
each year as a general rule,
there being a winter baby and
a summer baby. The naked off-
spring that Mammy ’Possum is
developing in her pouch just
now will be full-furred and rid-
ing on her back by the end of
August or early in September,
and in many cases the summer
baby—a tiny, frail, naked and
voiceless creature—will be firmly
attached to the spare teat by
that time. When she nurses
twins, which in the case of the
common ’possum happens about
once in a hundred births.
Mammy ’Possum can’t set about
refilling the cradle until both
babies have been weaned. The
native-bear also breeds twice a
year, although many old shoot-
ers will tell you it doesn’t.
“L.H.H.”: Tell “Penacre” (B. 31V5/’2S).
that the anthills mentioned by me are to be
seen in thousands in south-west Q., north-
west N.S.W. and South Aus. At least 90
per cent, of them have a very definite lean
towards the west. All are built with a
gradual incline from the ground up on the
eastern side, which, besides tending to fur-
ther accentuate the lean, gives them the
appearance of being buttressed on that side.
Frequently one sees an anthill whose top has
been broken off just about where the lean
commenced. The ants in building on another
top never fail to give it the same lean to-
wards the west. This I take to be clear
proof that the tendency to build in this
manner is definitely instinctive, and not due
THE SILVER LINING.
CHAPLAIN: “And are you comfortable here in prison, my good man?”
THE GOOD MAN: “It has its drawbacks, of course, but I don’t have to get up in
the middle of the night to see if the door is locked.”
to coincidence or blind chance. By getting
lost within half a mile of the station, anrl
admitting it. “Penacre” introduces a note
of candor. Most newehums contrive to get
so far away that it takes all hands a day or
two to get them back; and when found they
stoutly deny having been lost.
BRAVE AN’ HARD.
JAN: “If ’ee do ’ear any funny noise in this piece, Mister, it’ll be me—I doan’t know
too much ’bout un.”
SILAS: “An’ if ’ee do ’ear no noise ’t all, it’ll be me—I doan’t knaw nawthin’ ’bout
un ’soever.”
“G.8.L.”: The Bunjellung tribe, which
roamed the Clarence River country (N.S.W.),
had a version of the origin of the Pleiades
somewhat different from that narrated by
“Coot” (B. i;>/G/’2B). Their tradition, like
that which “Coot” mentions, tells of seven
young sisters named Wareengary. Kar-
ambal, a young man, loved one of the sisters
and, to the extreme annoyance of the other
six, carried her off to his camp. The varia-
tion now comes in. The six journeyed west-
ward to solicit the aid of the winter god.
Rising to the occasion, Winter made Karam-
bal’s camp so cold that he was easily per-
suaded to let his captive rejoin her sisters.
The sisters, their end attained, thereupon
sought the summer god and had the frosts
and ice melted. After making numerous
springs so that their tribe would always have
plenty of water they left the earth and be-
came the constellation we call the Pleiades.
They appear every summer, bringing warm
weather for their tribe, and send the winter
as a warning that the people must marry
according to tribal laws.
“Gouger": Few abos. can satisfactorily
handle a boomerang fashioned by a crafts-
man of another tribe. There is always some
peculiarity in the twist, weight
or shape of weapons made by
different tribes. Native spears,
bows and arrows have the same
tribal differences. Throughout
the centuries each tribe has de-
veloped its own standard length,
weight and balance of a spear.
To use a weapon made by an-
other tribe puts the thrower’s
aim out. Certain makers
attain a great reputation, their
weapons being eagerly bartered
for. Each tradesman hands his
own secrets down to bis succes-
sors, and so the differences are
perpetuated.
“Invalid”: The old pictures of rectangular
shorthorn cattle that astonished “Trevdee”
(B. 13/(5/’2B> were a slightly idealised re-
presentation of the beasts of a day that is
dead. Many breeders are striving to revive
the type. The square-cut appearance was
aimed at by those mighty breeders Bates
and Booth, and later by the great Col-
lings, and the right-angles were, and still are,
signs of quality. The breadth of back and
depth of frame which indicated a great capa-
city to carry beef had the effect of accentu-
ating the shortness of the legs. The slender
neck, head and legs were indices of quality,
butchers contending that any coarseness there
might be reflected in the tenderness of the
beef. Of course, an artist is an idealist
or nothing, in addition to which, in accentu-
ating the more desirable points, the painter
who had a livestock breeder as a patron knew
very well what was expected of him—and
played up to it.
* * * *
“Ivooragai”: When young galahs and
corellas are well fledged in the nests is the
harvest time of the bird-snatchers, who get
to the breeding-places early and despatch
thousands of the luckless squawkers to the
cities. Formerly it was a great feast time
of the Binghi clans. Some of the big holes
in Koopa Creek (Q.) are known as “cocka-
too holes,” where heaps of a hundred thou-
sand blood-stained cockatoos (little corellas)
could be seen in the season. They came in
regularly at sundown to camp at the water-
holes. and in season nested in the surround-
ing trees. Day after day Black Brother
returned with loads of eggs and young birds.
Great numbers of the adult birds were also
knocked out of the packed trees and killed
on wing, with boomerang and waddy, and
good bags were secured with a drop-net.
where the birds were drinking. But Binghi
liked the fledglings best; they were fat and
tender.
“Pigcat”: “Gumblegubbin” (B. IG/5/’2S)
refers to “boomer” kangaroos. Obviously he
is a Westralian. In Bananaland if anyone
mentioned boomers none but a wide-read
Aboriginaliar would know to what he re-
ferred. Here they have but one name—
“old man.” The lord of the mob is the
old man; the • young bachelors are bucks;
the ladies are does; those of irresponsible
age are fliers; and the little fellows are
joeys.
“Nuces” : Parts of South Queensland have
been suffering from a plague of mice. Many
mice are being found dead, with parts of
their bodies chewed off. Some say the mice
cat one another when they get very numer-
ous. Others aver that the chewing is done
by black mice, and that the appearance of
these foretells the end of the plague. What-
ever the truth, black mice have made their
appearance.
(Continued on page 25.)
THE PROPHETS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It's goin’ to rain, that’s as sure as eggs,”
Said Dad as he rubbed his hip.
"Rheumatics is screwin’ all down me legs,
An’ me corns is givin’ me jip.”
But the creek got low as the weeks went by,
And there was no change in the cloudless sky.
"It’s goin’ to rain, so be on your guard,”
Said Mum as she got the tea.
“The salt is damp an’ the sugar’s hard.
An’ the dies as bad as can be.”
But wash-days came and the wash-days went,
And creek-scum boded but discontent.
"We’ll soon ’avc rain, an’ a flood, by gees!”
Said .Toe, with his neck a-reek.
“The ants are cartin’ their eggs up trees,
An’ the frogs are leavin’ the creek.”
But the cows got bogged and the bush-fires
blazed,
And left the prophet half-blind and dazed.
“It’s goin’ to rain, an’ it’s goin’ to soon,”
Said Sarah, “I’ll make y’ a bet.
.Tust look at the rings around the moon.
An’ the way that the wind is set.”
But the creek went dry and the grey ..mare
died,
And still was the salve of a change denied.
Then Grandfather Mole in his big straw hat
Saw signs in the gum-tree boles —
“The black cockatoos ’ave come down to the
flat,
An’ the spiders are roofin’ their holes.”
But a duststorm rose in the sweeping rage,
And dashed the hopes of the weather sage.
And then one day at the kitchen door,
While sipping her morning cup,
The one-eyed lubra who scrubbed the floor
Said, “Big feller rain come up.”
And “sure as eggs” and “by gees” and that,
It rained and flooded the whole dam’ flat.
N.S.W.
E. S. SPRENSON.


Dos
,-A
B E.OTH
~ Senior fine
fl
VS-
_ 7
J //
mM
<L' ~)
<3
i
Dodge Brothers Senior Challenges
Comparison with the Costliest Cars
Dodge Brothers Senior Sixes have achieved a
most unusual distinction.
By delivering a quality of performance un-
known to their price class, they are no longer
thought of in their price class; but challenge
comparison with the costliest cars.
Dodge Brothers are receiving daily new
records of Senior brilliance, and this evidence
of owner enthusiasm is most inspiring.
Once take the wheel of this great Six and you
will understand why owners in all parts of
the world are voluntarily writing Dodge
Brothers letters of praise for Senior per-
formance and luxury.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne .
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane — Townsville.
Harden & Johnston, Limited, Sydney.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
F.5.360A.


THE CLIP on the ROAD
Consign it where its sale at full market
values is certain. Place it in the hands of
selling brokers who, season after season,
prove their ability as salesmen by consis-
tently securing highest possible results for
growers.
Send the wool to
WINGHCOMBE,CARSON
LTD,
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
The firm’s popularity is solely due to their
success in doing well for clients.
-Such a reputation is not won overnight”
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d ♦ . . . 20 for 1/6
Major Drapkin <$ Co.. London. Branch of The United
Kingdom Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
y.eu/vi
V©
If Every Ruptured
Person Knew—
the comfort and
freedom that
are possible
b y wearing
Denyers’ Elas-
tic Truss, he
would secure
this ideal
Rupture appli-
ance without
another day’s delay. A patent water pad
ensures dependable support with every comfort.
Single, 30/-; Double, 407-
Pamphlet free on request.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses. Abdominal Belts and
Artificial Limbs,
Dept. 1, 26? GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(3 Doors from Margaret Street).
sd
“Bill It.”: Young and middle-sized Mur-
ray cod never remain long in any locality,
but big, unwieldy fellows of the tribe take
up a residential area. Customarily the her-
mitage is at the lower reach of a river
rapid. There they lie with eyes upstream
awaiting the offal that comes floating down,
and the neighborhood of their lair is floored
by an accumulation of shells, bones and
other refuse of their feasts. They have a
companionless existence because they are
cannibals and the smaller fish fear them, but
they are safe from the balloon nets that
ensnare the nomads, and their cunning pro-
tects them against accepting any morsel
floating at the end of a line. So they are
rarely captured, and in time attain to enor-
mous size and weight compared with the
travelling clans.
* * * =;■
“Pudden”: The venerable fat lamp, or
slushy, to which “E.S.S.” refers (B.
16/5/’2B), has been called in these many
years in the west of Bananaland. The best
makers did not use a stick in the centre of
the wick, as “E.S.S.” describes. A piece of
moleskin by itself was considered the proper
thing in the best circles. The big art in
managing the slushy was in dousing it. .A.
newchum would blow the thing out, which
made the house uninhabitable. The proper
way to douse the slushy was to use a spoon—
usually there was one kept with the lamp
for replenishing and for dousing. The
spoon was dipped in the liquid fat surround-
ing the wick and the fat was poured over
the flame. About three spoonfuls would
be enough, and the lamp would die the death.
That left but a minimum of smell.
* x * *
“Fitz”: The late James Tyson was a
great friend of the abos. When in Sydney
on a long-ago sth of November he saw boys
running about with Guy Fawkes masks on,
and bought one for a little abo. on one of
THE UP-TO-DATE
SUNDOWNER.
"Cato you give us a
bit o’ tucker, boss,
an’ a drop o’ juice
for Lizzie?”
his out-back stations. The little chap was
delighted with the gift. That night Tyson
was in a hut with two of the blacks, when
suddenly the young abo. poked his masked
face in at the door. The blacks thought it
was the Devil. Their eyes commenced to
roll and their teeth to chatter, and with a
•yell they threw themselves on Tyson and
squeezed him so tightly that they nearly
fractured his ribs. It was impossible for
them to get through the doorway, as the
devil stood there making a hideous noise, so
they tried to escape up the chimney. That
proving an Impossibility, they isent two
slabs flying oui of the side of the hut and
made for the open country like scalded cats.
The joke, however, was not all against the
abos. The next day they burnt a large circle
of grass round the station to keep the devil
out.
**# , *
“W.1.U.”: Poor dying Binghi! The police
have been taking a census in that wide ex-
panse running from where the Murray cuts
the S.A. border, along that border to Queens
land and 132 miles along the line dividing
N.S.W. from Queensland, thence down to
Trida, thence to Wentworth and back to the
starting-point. In 56,500 square miles of
sparsely-settled country, containing ample
game and water, they could find only 204
full-blooded aboriginals—7l bucks, 62 gins
and 71 piccaninnies. The half-castes num-
bered 165, 80 being children. In Broken
Hill, the capital of this area, Binghi is a
rare sight—so rare that if school-children
saw one they would be liable to call him
an Afghan.
$ •!• *!• *!•
“The Rumpus”: “Sylvan’s” blackwood-
tree (B. 6/6/’2B) had a comparatively shel-
tered life. On the top edge of a barren
bluff looking out over the Pacific in Banana-
land a scrub oak stuck its roots in inch-wide
cracks and reached a height of about five
feet. My brother and I cut its holds and let
it go down. Half-way it stuck in a miniature
pocket of soil and there started life over
again. A year or so later a terrible storm
dragged the stubborn oak out of its nook and
landed it on a ledge near the waves. Again
green leaves were sported in season. Then
a small tidal wave washed the poor tree
out to sea. A month later I saw the
same oak half buried in sand a mile or
so along the coast, with two new leaves out.
* * x *
“Wang” : The urchin met the visitor at the
sliprails. He was plainly in a rebellious
mood. “It ain’t no use goin’ up to the
house,” he told the visitor, “yer won’t see
nobody.” The visitor asked why. “Well,
Dad’s got a pizined foot. Mum’s got a new
baby, Mary’s got the ’flu an’ Dave’s got the
jimjams.” “Dear, dear, that’s bad,” remarked
the visitor sympathetically. “Everybody but
you has got something, eh?” “Oh! I ain’t
out of it, Mister—l got me issue; too true.
I have.” “And what’s your trouble?” The
boy swatted a fly hard. “I’ve got ter
milk all their bloomin’ cows ’s well as me
own share,” he replied.
x x * x
“Merodika”: Does any Abo. councillor
know a certain way of identifying edible
mushrooms in the tropics? A short time ago,
in Daru (Papua), mushrooms collected from
the lawns surrounding the local mission
house were cooked and served up. They
tasted as respectable mushrooms should, but
about five minutes after eating them four
persons were taken violently ill, and later
became delirious. Medical help arrived, and
their lives were saved, but it was such a
close call that locally-grown mushrooms are
permanently off the menu in Daru now.
“R a j a” : T h e
Dusuns of Borneo (B.
20/6/’2B) are not the
only natives who
drink a fluid com-
pounded from the re-
mains of deceased relatives. Some of our own
northern tribes suspend the defunct above a
slow fire and grill him till the fat drips slowly
into special bark receptacles. A portion of
this they drink, and with the remainder
they massage each other. All the dead
man’s strength is supposed to be absorbed in
this way. In the case of an enemy they
abstract the kidneys and anoint themselves
with the kidney-fat before it gets cool.
“Up North”: The North Q’land abo. is
quite a different type in features from the
thick-lipped, squat-nosed, beetle-browed indi-
vidual of N.S.W. and Vic. His features are
much more akin to the white’s, and his color
is nearer dark-brown than black, his hair
varying from straight to curly. His nose
is often straight, sometimes hooked, and tlie
HE WOULD PUT NO LADY’S POT ON.
“So you're off to a weddin’, are you? What’s your part—going to give-the bride away?”
“No fear! This pfeller let other pfeller find out for hisself.”
nostrils only moderately flattened. The teeth
rarely need dental, attention, and can chew-
bone. The eye is often dark brown, but
more or less bloodshot. That doesn’t affect
the sight, which is remarkably keen. The
X.Q. abo. possesses a different mentality
from ours, and looks on life from a totally
different angle, but he lias brains and can
use them.
* * * *
“Gory P.”: New Guinea was always the
home of queer currency. I always grin
when I think how I was tricked so lately
as ’O9. It seemed to me that Northern N.G.
must have been in the past literally swarm-
ing with dogs—billions of ’em. And the
farther inland one got the more dogs’-teetli
necklaces did the duskies flaunt. Even, the
old men owned at least one, and each neck-
lace was composed of 100 big molars. There
didn’t seem to be enough dogs, in the world
to account for it. Then I suddenly awoke
to the fact that the teeth had no. nerve ducts.
They were frauds! At the next German
settlement the mystery was explained to me,
and in the plantation store I was shown a
pile of boxes containing these porcelain
fakes. Some say the Japs, were responsible
for the large spread of this currency, but the
fakes were there long before the Japs.
“Ziff”: Not long ago a fault developed on
the Darwin-Adelaide telegraph-line, and a
lineman went out to locate it. After travel-
ling two days he came to a broken insulator
and the wire lying on the pole, causing an
earth. A crippled aboriginal was patiently
waiting not far away. He admitted having
done the damage, knowing the lineman would
have to go out. He said he had been thrown
from a horse and injured, and afterwards
had been found and left by an inhuman
white. So he used his head and his skill at
stone-throwing to get himself out of a tight
hole.
“Wingella”: N.T. niggers rather like a
spell in gaol. They get clothes and good
food, which doesn’t have to be shared with
hungry mates, lubras, piccaninnies and
dogs; also they are never over-worked. The
two flies in the ointment are the fact that
sometimes the prisoners have to be shut up
in separate cells—the black dislikes loneli-
ness at night—and the_ deprivation of to-
bacco. Often a good nigger is let out for
a day’s spell. I once met two murderers
fishing a few miles from tli e gaol, quite on
tlieir own, and quite ready to return at
sunset. Old Buck, sentenced years ago to
10 years for cattle-spearing, flatly refused
to leave the gaol when his time came, and
camped in the gaol yard for years, being
finally employed as a sort of man-of-all-
work.
* * * *
"Syes”: Bill was on hand to meet the
packhorse mail, which arrived every six
weeks. The mailman’s bottle contained only
a heeltap, which he passed oyer. Bill poured
the whisky into the palm of one hand, pulled
his shirt out and rubbed the spirit on his
stomach. “What are you doing that for?”
asked the mailman. “Well, matey.” said Bill
reproachfully, “if I’d drunk it it wouldn’t
have got down that far!”
“ Let Go”: There are whites who arc
cleverer trackers than the majority of blacks.
Out in the Cooper country of S.-W. Q’land
the Ilackett brothers arc famous for track-
ing. No matter what kind of country lost
stock have travelled, the Hacketts will
find them if they’ve been gone a month, and
if they’ve died the brothers will bring back
the brand. Picking out the tracks of their
own horses from those of the brumbies is
simple to these chaps.
“Old Timer”: In one of the dampest parts
of N.S.W., the Dorrigo, my plan for keep-
ing matches dry has never failed. Put a
teaspoonful of wood ashes in the box.
* * * *
“Homfrey Beale”: There is no friendlier
bird in the bush than the jackass. At Ran-
kin’s Springs (N.S.W.) there was a road-
making camp. The place abounds in jack-
asses, and the cook used to throw them
scraps of meat when he was cutting! up.
In less than a week the men were feeding
several of them from the hand, while the
bolder spirits could even be induced to enter
the tents for titbits. At the back of the
recreation-ground at Albury (N.S.W.),
where numbers of men camp all the year
round, there is a jackass which regularly
feeds from the hands of the campers.
Miners and apostles, which are generally
credited with the conjoint premiership in
this respect, run a bad second when matched
against Jacky. They are more cheeky than
friendly.
BIRDS.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I love all birds, but chief affection sways
’Twixt many. Difficult it is to fix
A lasting fav’rite; though for many days
May Phaps chalcoptera or Lobibyx
Seem crowned to last. But then Nunvenius
Cyanopus the wailer charms anew,
Or else Leptolophus hollandicus
Vies with Duccio gigas, or the blue
Malums cyuncus takes me back
To boyhood homage; or perhaps I see
My sweet-voiced friend Zosterops boicia,
Or little Sericornis lathami,
And count it first—merely to throne again
Ptilonorhynchus violaceus
Or Strepera melanoptera ... .and then
Dear Lopholaimus antarcticus !
Birds each and all—whether of plumage dun
Or radiantly garbed—my love they claim ;
To which I add deep thankfulness that none
Attempts to sing its scientific name!
MAORILAND.
RIVERINA.


Our Service Department
This page in set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of lasi Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
Wants.
Lady (85), intelligent, intellectual, would
like to correspond with anyone fond of
literature and music.—5384.
By young woman, position as book-keeper
in Sydney or N.S.W. country town, cashier
or cierk,' good refs., experienced—5385.
By married couple, wife good cook and
domesticated, husband experienced store
manager and handy at carpentry, cement
work and tank making, position on Q land
sheep station. —5378.
By siugle man (38), job, anywhere, two
years in New Guinea, used to cocoanut and
rubber, motors, marine and tractor, ex. refs.
—5391.
Touch-typist wants work. All classes done,
city or country, N.S.W. —5400.
Young woman (20) wants position on out-
back station. Used to farming, bush life
and animals. Can cook. Good refs. —5413.
• By young man, position as overseer of
sheep-station, S.A. or IV.A. preferred. Sober
and industrious. Ex. refs. —5411.
By young married couple, job on Islands
or station. Both experienced in storekeeping
and poultry-raising. Man good knowledge
mining, timber and carpentry; can drive
Ford. Woman, good cook and housekeeper,
able to sew. (To J. II. Williams, 288a
Gloucester-road, Ilurstvillc, N.S.W.)
To buy clean copy of “The Battle of Jut-
land,” by Bellairs. —5399.
To sell two oyster-farming propositions,
Port Stephens (N.S.W.), £1000 and £850.—
5373. \
To sell “The Isle of San.” Norman Lind-
say’s etchings, perfect order. —5367.
To buy Romajn Holland's “Jean Chris-
tophe” (in French). —5358.
Whereabouts of James Grant and William
John Phemister, late of Newport, Yic. (To
George Pollard, Yudanamutana S.A.)
Information concerning family named
Thornton who came from Hockley, Birming-
ham, to Q’land about 44 years ago.—5359.
Titles and publication addresses of house
organs (similar to Pelacograms) _ published
in Australia or New Zealand. —5382.
To sell early Australian and M.L. books.
‘—5393.
Information Sought.
(1) Where, in Sydney, can I learn to fly?
(2) What is the minimum charge? (3)
Hoio long docs it take to learn? (4) 1.1
more than three iceeks, could it he shortened?
—5220.
(1) The Australian Aero Club gives a
course of instruction. (2) On an average
about £60; it might be more or less, accord-
ing to the aptitude of the pupil. (3) About
five weeks if two lessons a day are taken.
(4) No.
Is there any place near Sydney where a
man could build himself a hut and grow
enough vegetables and catch enough fish to
keep him in food, and where he could live in
peace uninterrupted by authorities or in-
quisitive persons? —5244.
Crown lands cannot be occupied without
authority. The Information Bureau of the
N.S.W. Department of Lands might be able
to help you to find a leasehold or selection.
(1) Gan one auditor be appointed to audit
the books of a Q’land primary producers'
co-op. association? (2) If so, is he eligible
for re-election at the end of 12 months? —
4982.
(1) Yes, if the Department of Agriculture
is satisfied that the business doesn’t warrant
more. (2) Yes, subject to the approval of
the Auditor-General.
(1) Where can I get details for the con-
struction of a good short-wave radio re-
ceiver•? (2) What is the best type of aerial
to use? —5296.
(1) You will find full details of a good
three-valve short-wave receiver in Austra-
lian Radio, Vol. I, No. 8, and a four-valve
set is described in the same journal. Vol. II,
No. 2, obtainable from Wireless News-
papers, Ltd., 51 Castlcreagh-street, Sydney.
(2) Almost any kind of an aerial will give
good results on short waves. Hoist it as
high as possible and well clear of buildings.
A length of 40 or 50 feet is recommended.
What was the weight, cost and muzzle
velocity of the 15 in. shells of the battle-
ship Queen Elizabeth? —5364.
Weight, 19201b.; muzzle velocity, about
2500ft. per second; cost, about £250.
The ceiling in my hall is peeling. Should
I get if sprayed or papered? —5156.
( Advise spraying, but it’s an expert job.
Consult a competent house decorator.
(1) Are there ex-German cocoanut planta-
tions in the Solomon Islands, now produc-
ing copra, available to soldiers? (2) What
price would I have to pay? (3) Would an
officer of the Imperial Forces be eligible to
tender? (4) What, facilities are there for
trading rvith natives? (5) What material
and workmanship is available for building?
(6) Do Burns, Philp have a trading and ship-
ping monopoly? (7) C.ould I export direct to
France? (vS) What are the climatic condi-
tions? Is malaria prevalent? Arc there
other tropical diseases? (9) What are
the Customs regulations? (10) What
crops other than copra would grow. (11)
At what price, in Australia, could I buy
a 15-20 :ton boat with auxiliary motor. (12)
What, publications give reliable information
on the Solomon and South Sea Islands?
(13) Whom should I approach for full infor-
mation?—5063.
(1) Yes. (2) You offer what you think
the plantation is worth to you. (3) Yes if
he enlisted for service in the Great War
outside the United Kingdom, and was resi-
dent in Australia prior to enlistment. (4)
Traders’ licenses arc issued by the Govern-
ment. (5) Timber abounds, and skilled
native labor is available. (0) No. (7) Yes,
by chartering ships or selling on a commis-
sion basis through merchants. (8) Malarial
and dengue fevers are prevalent, and black-
water has been the cause of a number of
deaths, but, as a whole, the Territory has
a good healthy climate. (9) Narcotics, beer,
wines and spirits are subject to a duty
slightly lower than prevails in Australia;
whilst general merchandise (exceptingspeci-
fied lines) is subject to an ad valorem duty
of 10 per cent. (10) Native sugar-cane,
maize, coffee and cocoa. (11) Cost of build-
ing would be about £1250; but one might be
picked up for much less. (12) Publications
posted. (13) Government Secretary, Rabaul.
(T) How can I prepare a hardwood floor
for polishing? (2) Wliat width of board is
best? (3) What is the best method of polish-
ing? (4) Is such a floor durable? —5173.
(1) If power is available an electric
smoother may be hired from a timber mer-
chant, who will send a man to operate it.
Otherwise, smooth off with a plane. If good
boards are properly laid they should not need
smoothing. (2) 2lin. (3) Clean surface,
stain to taste and rub in several coats of
raw linseed oil. Polish with any good floor
polish. (4) It gives good service and is ever-
lasting, but repolishing takes a lot of elbow-
grease.
Where could I buy a■ worn-out postal ran
in Sydney? —so99.
Auction sales are advertised from time to
time in the newspapers.
A man in his will bequeaths “all moneys
lying to my credit at the Bank of ” to
Iris grandchildren, the remainder of his estate
being left to his family. A year later the
testator is certified insane; the Master in
Lunacy takes control of the estate and with-
draws the money lying in the bank specified.
Later, the testator dies insane. Have the
grandchildren any claim against the estate? —
5349.
The question is a complex one. and could
only be answered authoritatively by a Judge
with all the evidence before him. In such
cases due respect would he paid to the inten-
tion of the testator.
(1) How can I lay a turf match wiclcet?
(2) What would it cost in Brisbane? (31
Would water-worn 2in. basalt or quart-site be
suitable for a foundation? —5209.
(1) Trench the area —-20yds. by 3yds. for
one wicket and by 6yds. for two wickets —to
a depths of 12 inches. Lay 2ih. metal to a
depth of 4in. for drainage and foundation.
Cover this with 2in. of coarse coal clinkers.
Cover the clinkers with 2in. of soil. Roll
well and water. Then put in at least 4in. of
the soil you are going to use to form the
turf wicket. Water well, so as to bed it
down solid. When dry enough to work by
raking tlm soil finely, plant couch-grass roots
or runners (not blue couch) about 3in. or
4in. apart, and roll well. When the grass
starts to grow topdress with finely-sieved
cricket; soil. Always keep the wicket well
watered, but don’t do much rolling till the
grass is well established. (2) £3O to £35.
A 3) Yes.
(1) Where can I take correspondence
courses in N.S.W. in the following subjects:
agriculture, care of animals, sheep and wool,
and station book-keeping? (2) What arc
the fees for each subject? —s327.
(I) Correspondence Courses Branch, Syd-
ney Technical College. (2) £2 2s. per term
for each subject, except station book-keeping,
which is £1 Is. per term.
(1) What is the duty on books from
London and from New York? (2) What
arc the postal rates on books (average
weight ) from those cities? —4224.
(1) The only duty on books coming from
abroad is on publications used for adver-
tising. (2) English rate, Id. per 20z.;
American rate, one cent each 20z., tvith limit
of 61b. 9oz. for a single volume.
Where can I obtain a copy of the will of a
deceased person in N.H. IF., and how much
icould it cost? —5184.
Furnish the Registrar of Probates,
Supreme Court, Elizabeth-street, Sydney,
with the full name of deceased and approxi-
mate date of death, and you will bo informed
as to the cost of a copy of the will.
Three years ago my wife proceeded against
me for restitution of conjugal rights, and an
order was made which I disobeyed. We have
been separated for three years, and I have
maintained her. What course can I take
to get a divorce? —sl79.
Your wife could divorce you, under
N.S.W. law, on the facts as stated, but you
can’t divorce her on the grounds of a separa-
tion for which you are responsible.
(1) Can a girl under 21 and over IS
marry without her parents’ consent if the
■man can prove he is in a position to keep
her? (2) Gan a girl under the age of 21
leave home and obtain a position without her
pa rents’ consent ? —SI6S.
(1) No. His means don’t affect the
question. (2) Yes. There’s nothing in
N.S.W. Statutes requiring their consent.
Can you tell me how to get rid of the
smell of tobacco, etc., in a hut?- —5090.
Admit air freely for some hours, remove
and air all clothing or drapery and cleanse
the room. Then burn small quantities of
sulphur on a shovel or iron pan with door
and window shut. Open up and air well.
Sprinkle room and contents with oil of spike
lavender.
(1) Is there a demand for mushrooms in
N.S.W.? (2) Where and at what cost is
seed obtainable? (3) How should mushrooms
be packed, and what prices does the grower
receive? (4) Where can [ obtain printed
idvice on the subject? —slßß.
(1) Yes, all the year round. (2) From
almost any seedsman. Arthur Yates and Cos .;
184 Sussex-street, Sydney, supply blocks at
Is. 3d. each, postage Is. (3) Preferably in
strawberry punnets, or in boxes of not more
than three layers, with white paper between.
Prices in Sydney range from Is. to 3s. (id.
per lb., according to supply and demand.
(4) Read the cultural notes in Arthur
Yates’s “Garden Guide” and other Austra-
lian manuals of the sort.
I have a cattle-dog that gets sick on an
average every three weeks • he gets so
stiff he can hardly walk about; his eyes are
clear, and he docs not get a cold as in dis-
temper. Is there a cure? —5134.
Probably a form of rheumatism. Give the
dog a large tablespoonful of syrup of buck-
thorn and the same quantity of castor oil
first thing in morning on an empty stomach.
After the medicine has operated, give a
pinch or capsule of Epsom salts on the
tongue every morning. Don’t feed entirely
on meat; green vegetables and gravy make
excellent food for dogs, particularly in cases
such as you describe.
rr ow can I make a dry blower for gold? —
5079.
,nuke an ore table of wire netting 4ft.
in length, with ends 4ft. and 3ft. respec-
tively, and cover with canvas. Fix adjust-
able legs to permit of the slant of the table
towards the narrower end, amount of slope
to be determined by nature of material to be
treated. Fix riffles on the inclined table to
catch the heavier particles. A double-acting
bellows is operated under the table, which
forces a pulsating blast of air up through
the canvas, thus causing the heavier par-
ticles in the dirt to settle on the bottom and
collect behind riffles. The material must be
thoroughly dry and the dirt powdered up.
How can I remove fly-specks from polished
Q’land maple furniture? —1994.
Wash carefully in' warm suds con-
taining a little cloudy ammonia. Dry with
a silk duster and polish with any good furni-
ture polish containing beeswax and turpen-
tine.
How can I make soup with sour milk?-. —
5010.
Milk may be added to any soup recipe,
but sour milk would suit very few palates,
and could not be used as a chief ingredient
on account of its curdling properties.
(1) How arc facsimile signature rubber-
stamps made? (2) How arc metal-stamps
made? —5500.
The signature is transferred to a wood
block in reverse and cut in relief, on the
wood, by hand. This is then impressed on
a plaster-of-paris or compo. mould, which is
used, by the vulcanising process, to produce
the rubber-stamp. (2) In making metal-
stamps (not facsimile signatures) type and
rules are set up in the ordinary way, a mould
impression taken, and a cast made.
(1) In football matches in Melbourne
under Australian rules, have the police a
right to keep the spectators out of the play-
ing enclosure without the authority of club
or umpire? (2) In the event of fighting be-
tween players, have the police the power to
enter the ground and stop the combatants
without the umpire's authority? (3), Can
players be ordered off the field by the
umpire? —s233.
(1) Yes. A football ground is a place of
common resort, and it is the duty of the
police to preserve the peace there by such
means as they may think necessary. (2)
Yes. (3) No. He can only report their con-
duct to the governing authority of the game.
Which is correct: “There is no coffee” or
“there is not any coffee”? “/ am doing no-
thing at present” or “I am not doing any-
thing at present”? —5228.
All the phrases cited are grammatically
correct. Choice is a matter of taste.
Is it lawful for a Q’land shire council to
levy rates on flic owner of a house situated
on Government land? —5120.
Yes, unless the land is vested in the Com-
missioner for Railways.
/ have just left the R.A.N., and have
£SOO cash and the right to borrow £6OO
from the Government as a returned soldier.
I want to go on the land, and am a student at
the Wagga Experiment Farm. (1) What
class of farming do you recommend? (2)
What is the best district? (3) Are my finan-
cial resources sufficient? —4591.
(1) Wheat and sheep, on a share-farming
basis for a start. (2) Since what you
know you have presumably learned at
Wagga you had better stick to the western
slopes of N.S.W. (3) Yes, on the basis we
suggest.
(1) Does N.S.W. law permit me to turn
straying stock from my property on to the
road? (2) Would I be liable for any acci-
dent which might occur if I did so? —5388.
(1) No. You must drive or send them to
the nearest pound, or, if you know the owner,
you may impound them on your own pre-
mises for not more than four days and give
notice to the owner within 24 hours.' You
may make a charge for feeding the animals,
and for sending the notice, and you may
claim compensation for any damage done.
(2) That would depend upon the circum-
stances.
(1) How can my son. aged 15, get train-
ing as an assaycr in Vic.? (2) Could he
be apprenticed to a qualified assayer? —s229.
(1) Courses in assaying are given at the
Working Men’s College, Melbourne, and at
various mining schools. (2) Yes, or he could
get employment in some assay laboratory in
the city or in a mine.
I have a swamp block on the Murray,
planted with permanent pasture. I am
troubled with couch grass, and wish to get
rid of it without ploughing up. Gan you
suggest a means? —5232.
It is not feasible to destroy couch grass
in the middle of pasture land without plough-
ing up the land and turning the roots to
the influence of the summer sun.
Information Supplied.
5057. —To prepare charcoal, make a
closely-packed pile of mixed green and dry
wood., leaving a fire-box at the draughty end.
Plaster thickly with wet mud and fire the
heap. Apply fresh mud as the covering
cracks, and the fire shows through. A mass
of charcoal will remain when the fire has
burnt out. .Cost will depend on location and
carting distance. Abo. charcoal-burners on
the South Coast (N.S.W.) get 2s. for
a corn-bag full.—“ Pick.”
Brief Answers.
J.G.P.: The edition is of no special value.
. ...M.8.C.: Beatrice Grimshaw, Moresby, Papua;
Will Ogilvie, Hawick, Roxburghshire, Scotland.
Cannot trace other two at present... .G. 8.:
Newspapers published in N.S.W. are not per-
mitted by law to supply details o£ sweeps,
art unions or lotteries conducted outside the
State... .L.C.lt.: All we can say is that the
mine developments have been extraordinarily good.
. ...R.H.M.: There is no one “best investment.”
Everything depends upon the risk you are prepare !
to take. If you want safety above all things, you
will take Government securities... .Rakiura: Write
to Curtis Brown, 6 Henrietta-street, London, W.C.2.
But it would pay you better to publish 10ca11y....
E.T.; Bowl is of modern make and worth 15s. to
£1... .A.C.P.: The pictures are apparently oleo-
graph reproductions and of no value... .C.R.G. :
From your description it is a sampler, but the period
couldn’t be established without examination. Articles
of this nature do not bring high prices... . U.J.W.;
(1) Steam boilers should be hydraulically tested,
the water being warm, but not too hot. Pressure
should be maintained for 10 minutes. (2) Candi-
dates for an enginedriver’s certificate must produce
testimonials as to sobriety, good conduct and experi-
ence, and be able to describe and explain various
parts of steam engines and boilers and tell how
to correct defects. The N.S.W. Department of
Labor and Industry supplies particulars on appli-
cation. (3) The discs for grinding shearing-machine
combs and cutters are made slightly convex because
the surfaces must be hollow ground. (4) The
gudgeon pin is tapered. Apply a centre-punch to the
small end and tap it out gently... .E.J.H.; Cement if
you want a paved court. Color with chromium oxide.
Finish ofi the top course with a wooden float, and
brush briskly with a stiff broom while the cement
is setting, if you want a rough surface. For lines,
pre-form channels in the top coat and fill them in
with white cement compo. Specification can be
obtained from Brown and Dureau, 422 Collins-street.
. ...W.J.W.: Gargoyle is now an architectural term
for the carved termination of a spout which
conveys water from roof gutters... .A.T.S.:
The larvie of a beetle belonging to the genus
Anthremis did the damage. Fumigate cupboards,
etc., with carbon bisulphide, using lib. of the liquid
to every 100 cub. ft. of space, sealing every crack
and keyhole with pasted slips of paper. The liquid
should be poured on rags of sufficient quantity to
hold it without dripping, and the rags should be
suspended at the top of the cupboard. Leave for
10 hours, and be careful not to bring a flame or
spark of any sort into the room J.R.M.:
The Grand Prix de Paris exceeds £25,000 each year
in value. Last English Derby, £12,000 in stake
money for the winner. The American Futurity Stakes
and Hopeful Stakes were worth 91,790 dollars and
65,450 dollars respectively ; and the Coffroth Handicap,
at Tia Juana, Mexico, was worth 84,400 dollars
(MeX.). The Melbourne Cup is a handicap sweep-
stakes of £75 each, with £IO,OOO added, and
trophy valued at £2OO. Second £2OOO and third
£IOOO out of stake W. J.M.: The ship Our Jack
sank off Manning River on June 25, 1921, in a
s.-e. gale with heavy sea. Five lives were lost. The
Fitzroy foundered off Cape Hawke in a heavy s.-e.
gale the following day. Thirty-one lives were lost
and there was only one survivor... .W.H.K.: Write to
Griffith and Hassel, 77 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
Sydney... .H.J.S.; Tell us the subject and size and
condition of the drawing... .T.F.8.: The State In-
ventions Board no longer exists. You might get
assistance by applying to the Department of
Chemistry, Sydney Uni., or by approaching any of
the big photographic supply firms. .. .J.M.C.:
Country Women’s Association, 26 O’Connell-street,
Sydney. Apply for a prospectus.... G.L.; Armstrong-
Holland, Ltd., 360 Collins-street, Melbourne, manu-
facture Wiard road-ploughs. Anthony Hordern’s,
Ltd., Sydney, are agents. No Victorian agent. Ran-
some’s improved chain harrow's are procurable from
Ruston and Hornsby, Ltd., 655 Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne. .. .R.J.: “Stuff and Nonsense,” by Walter
de la Mare, 10s., and “Dictionary of Quotations and
Proverbs,” by Moorhead and Lee, 2 vols., 65.,
Angus and Robertson... .R.T.H.: It was written
by the same author.. . .Mrs. C.: (1) “Cassis
tutissima virtus” means “Virtue is the safest
helmet” and is the motto of the Chol-
mondeley family. (2) Making a search... .C. 8.:
The only legitimate entrance to the electrical trade
is by apprenticeship of five years... .E.N.J.:
Beethoven could not have intended it as his farewell to
the pianoforte, as it was written in 1809, 18 years
before his death and 13 years before his deafness
became absolute... .A.11.G.: (1) Practically no
demand in Sydney. (2) Salaries are generally
a little higher than those of ordinary correspondence
clerks, to whom from £5 per week upwards is
paid. (3) A thorough knowledge of the language
and ability to compose a good business letter....
J.K.E.: Moore’s “Lalla Rookh” in any edition is
worth only a few shillings... .G.T.: Columbia
Record 04037, Bs. 6d., George Wollaston, 177 George-
street, Sydney... .R.J.: “The Four Feathers,” by
A. E. W. Mason, 3s. 6d., Angus and Robertson....
J.H.: Jaques-Dalcroze’s “Rhythmic Movement,” Vol.
I, 6s. 6d. ; Vol. 2, Bs. 6(1., Angus and Robertson....
J. : (1) “Rewi Maniapoto, the Last of the Glen-
garrys, To Mother Earth, and other Poems.” (2)
Dunedin, 1894. (3) He died December 14, 1911
(4) From his widow, Mrs. Annie J. Nolan, 81
Grosvenor-street, Dunedin, M.L J.Y.: Australian
terriers, J. B. Matterson, 523 George-street; P-
N eaves, 28 Raper-street, Newtown, Yorkshire
terriers, Mrs. L. Bright, 49 Victoria-street, Waverley ;
A. Dunningham, 53 Milson-road, Randwick —all of
Sydney... .5.11.5.: Charles E. Taylor, School of
Journalism, 434 Collins-street, Melbourne.... Cabe:
11. W. Varna, 215 George-street; H. Thomas, 173
Phillip-street; Laurence Campbell, 350 George-
street —all of Sydney... .C.M.: Daniel Dunce’s
“Language of the Aborigines of the Colony of Vic-
toria,” £1 155.; J. F. L. Foster’s “The New Colony
of Victoria,” £1 Is., and George Collingridge’s
“The Discovery of Australia,” 18s. Od C.W.8.:
Can’t advise on a synovitis case without diagnosis.
Carry on with your treatment and ask your doctor
to look at your tonsils ... .E.McK.: Neuritis can’t
be alleviated by external applications. To relieve
pain, take lOgr. aspirin every four hours. Curing
is a matter of building up general health... .G.8.W.:
In many cases acne can be considerably alleviated,
and in some the marks can be remov'ed. Consult
a specialist... .W.R.W.; We can’t find any authen-
ticated collected records in Australia of the progeny
of Jersey bulls T.W.R.G.: (1) “Practical Gold
Mining,” by C. G. Warnford Lock, and “Tin
Deposits of the World,” by Sydney Fawns (both pub-
lished in London). (2) “Ore Dressing,” by R. H.
Richards, and Robert Peele’s “The Mining Engineers’
Handbook” (both published in New York)..,,
(Many others mailed.)


Atwater
i *
/
. f
\
? r\
i r
/v V,) v<>CA
->c.- J i/y- 1 •*-*- r.
* &
j-
“T-
aS»
I ppp
>««•*&£&
~<C -?-
rw • '
.3
? •>
\
<■:*
a
• ■;y
[PATONj
*
st.
skotwj
* ip
Model 33 Receiver, Model H Speaker §
f&
□
BBSS
to one dial receivers
m
□
/
£B
E£
ses
m
*
s
Model 35 Receiver, Model E Speaker : ;
Oj
rw?
■
.Al
®ov
fnr t ! !ii»' w,i,, "" i, "'!iii.
fnrnrmrnn
Model 32 Receiver , Model E Speaker
AV
£e cOta'i'
m
s i
re i
COUPON ——
Messrs. A. Q. Healing Ltd., 167-173 Franklin
St., Melbourne. 27 Hyde St. Adelaide. 208-10
Castlereagh St. Sydney.
Please post me latest Free Literature on Aru'ater
Kent Radio.
Nam e.,
Address
MODEL 33. One Dial Six Valve model
of great range, power, beautiful Tone
Quality, and unusual selectivity. Non-rad-
iating, nonsquealing. (Model H Speaker.)
MODEL 32 One Dial Seven Valve Re-
ceiver...“Aristocrat of the Atwater Kents.”
Exceptional range and power, with
Atwater Kent purity of tone and ease of
operation. Non-radiating, non-squealing.
(Model E Speaker.)
MODEL 35. Six Valve One Dial Receiver.
Richly finished in brown crystalline, with
touches of gold, and beautiful gold-plated
Spanish Galleon nameplate. Non-radiat-
ing, non-squealing. (Model E Speaker.)
PICTURE to yourself a radio
factory so huge that it covers
acres and is capable of a
capacity output of 8000 sets a
day. Such a factory is Atwater Kent’s
...a factory that has founded its
prosperity on the successful develop-
ment of One Dial Radio Receivers.
The One Dial of an Atwater Kent Set
sweeps the air as a searchlight sweeps
the sky. A turn of the wrist and station
after station comes in quickly, yet with
perfect clarity. There are no secondary
devices to manipulate. One simple
dial does the whole job !
These Atwater Kent Receivers are
amazingly compact. Placed anywhere,
on table, window sill or mantelpiece...
they take up less room than a dozen
books. Excelling in tone, they repro-
duce voices and music with perfect
fidelity. And they’re reliable! Every
Atwater Kent set is tested 159 times
before it leaves the factory.
These are the sets that are winning the
whole world to One Dial Reception.
It your home is not already Atwater
Kent equipped, call at the nearest
authorised dealer’s. He’ll be proud to
demonstrate Atwater Kent superiority.
ATWATER KENT PRICES
Six and Seven Valve ONE Dial Atwater
Kent Receivers, £25:10:0 to £37:10:0,
without valves or equipment. Radio
Speakers, £3:15:0, £4:10:0 and £8:15:0
(New Model E.) Complete outfits from
£43:10:0, also console and Writing Desk
models.
Inserted by the Atwater Kent Alanufacturing Co., Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A. Australian Wholesale
Distributors: A. G. Healing Ltd. Dealers Everywhere
ASK YOUR NEAREST DEALER TO SHOW YOU
NEW MODELS BY ATWATER KENT


MAKE THE PLACE PAY BETTER.
A month ago we said we wanted to hear from 500 farmers
and graziers during June. Actually we heard from 600; and
as time goes on we are going to hear from more and more.
This “Land” section is a clearing-house for your ideas and
experiences.
We want to hear from more of you wheat farmers.
Be brief.
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
A •••'. -/ •••;
/Vi
i, : \
-~
N/
Ns,~ •**
r y
AUSTRAUAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY
X > v \O V ,C,
<iV vVJ
\v°* PvO* 1 '
S*^ e ,o* vC "
K\9^‘
- l v a ’V*
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
FARMERS’ .CLIPS.
“ J.L.H.”: A great deal of money is lost
annually to farmers in the classing of their
clips. The yield from 1000 sheep should
pan out at from 18 to 25 bales, and on this
basis an average clip (merino sheep) should
class up something like this: AA. fleece,
eight bales; A fleece, six bales; first pieces,
five bales; pieces, two bales ; bellies, one and
a half bales; locks, one bale; total, 234
bales. Care should always be exercised to
avoid too many lots in a farmer’s clip; like-
wise it is important to avoid, where possible,
star lots, although this is difficult when class-
ing the wool from a flock of 1000 sheep or
under.
The AA fleece should consist of the longest,
soundest and brightest wools. The single A
of the fleeces are the wools that do not come
up to this standard. To avoid a third class
of fleece wool (which is not advised in a clip
of this size), fleeces which are not good
enough for the single A should be torn up
and classed as first pieces and pieces.
If the backs are dusty they should be
removed from the fleece, and find their way
to one or other of the pieces bins, probably
the seconds. Piece-picking deserves more
care than is generally given to this opera-
tion in farmers’ lots. All ragged edges
and dingy wool should constitute second
pieces, leaving the long bright wool to form
the first pieces. Pizzle pieces should be re-
moved from wether belly-wool, and spread
out to dry. Stained pieces, when dry, may
be baled up with the locks, and at the pre-
sent prices of wool it may be worth while
to send locks and stains to a scour for treat-
ment.
Press carefully and sew well. Bales should
be branded neatly on one side and the
bottom end. and it is recommended that a
name be used, the quality of the wool indi-
cated and the number of the bale shown thus:
Hillend.
AA Ewes (or Wethebs)
5.
If a farmer in Queensland is of the opinion
that he has not the knowledge necessary to
get up his clip satisfactorily, he should cer-
tainly take advantage of the scheme inaugu-
rated by the Department of Agriculture and
Stock. For a charge of something like 10s.
per bale, he may have his clip properly
classed and marketed. He may, further,
on application, obtain an advance of 60
p.c. of the total value of the clip, the balance
being paid after the disposal of the wool.
A further advantage with this scheme is that
star lots are avoided to a very great extent.
GRINDSTONE LAW.
‘Tienshell”: It is small wonder that the
friends of “Bert the Carpenter” (B.
fl/6/'2B) drew the temper of their tools if
they used an emery wheel running at only
1000 revolutions per minute, unless the wheel
was over 14in. in diameter, which is doubt-
ful. The surface speed of a grinding wheel
should be between 4000 and 6000 feet per
minute; for the work likely to be done on
the farm 4500 feet per minute would be suf-
ficient. To attain this speed with six- and
eight-inch wheels, 2865 and 2150 revolutions
respectively would be required. If a wheel
be run too slowly excessive pressure must
be exerted on the tool before any cutting
takes place, with the result that it becomes
overheated, the temper is drawn and the net
visible result is a wire-edge on the tool.
The most important point in connection
with a grinder is to see that there is abso-
lutely no slack in the bearings. No wheel,
however true and truly mounted, will remain
so with slack bearings. Moreover, it is
likely to burst at any moment. The wheel
should be supported on each side by a flange
about one-third the diameter of the wheel
and recessed in the centre, leaving a true
bearing at the outer edge only; soft washers
between wheel and flanges are also essential;
blotting-paper makes excellent ones—about
four thicknesses.
It is as well to have a guard over the
wheel; it protects the eyes to a certain
extent, and even the best mounted wheel is
in the same category as the gun that isn’t
loaded—it may bprst.
Finally, use as little pressure as possible ;
keep a tin of water handy in which to slip
the tool when it gets warm, stand to one
side as much as possible and grind on the
periphery of the wheel only.
COUNTRY WOOL-SELLING.
“Gamma”: “Delta” (1!. 20/6/’2B) mis-
takes my term “country buyer” for country
dealer, and I draw a big distinction between
the two. By country buyer I mean the
market operator who has his headquarters in
a wool-selling centre, and operates during
a part at least of the season in the country.
The country dealbr has his headquarters in
the local township, buys anything from wool
to old iron, and, in general, pays ridiculously
low prices for his purchases. The latter gets
a good many bags of dead wool and cr-utch-
ings in the course of a year, but it is the
former who buys the clip wools and who can
afford to give a fair price. He can get a
certain preferential treatment as regards re-
offering, and also a certain rebate of selling
commission, but he does not, as a rule, re-
offer his purchases in a greasy state on the
open market, and when re-offered in the
grease they are re-classed. These buyers are
Australian mills, scouring firms and oversea
buyers, as well as dealers in a more or less
big way of business, and their purchases are
usually re-offered in a scoured state, arc-
sold by private treaty, are shipped direct, or
arc put into manufacture as the case may
be; in many cases the wool is sold before
it is bought.
As “Delta” says, given good management,
the new company being formed with the object
of prompt realisation will fill a “long felt
want” ; also it will face some difficulties, since
it will of necessity be outside the pale of
the Associated Brokers just as long as it
performs its objective functions. There is no
doubt of the discontent existing in the late
shearing districts at the long wait for re-
turns, and the remedy would seem to lie, in
part at least, in decentralisation. There is
no apparent reason, for instance, why
Queensland Central wools should not be sold
at Rockhampton, or why Newcastle should
not become another Geelong.
HOME-MADE HARNESS POLISH.
“Rustic”: Take 2oz. soft soap and dis-
solve it in £-pint of warm water in an old
.jar; add 2oz. finely-chopped mutton suet,
6oz. shredded beeswax, 6oz. powdered sugar
candy and, for black leather, loz. lampblack.
Put the jar into a pot of hot water, and
let the contents melt slowly, stirring fre-
quently. Care should be taken that the
mixture does not boil, and that the vessel
does not crack. When the ingredients are
thoroughly dissolved and mixed, remove
from the fire, and leave till nearly cold;
then stir in gradually {-pint, of turpentine.
Put into small pots and cover. Apply with
a rag. and polish with a brush.
PODDYING CALVES.
"Old Timer”: My herd is one of the best
on tlie famous Dorrigo; I reared it myself,
and my plan is as follows. Feed with milk
fresh from the coav for first seven days.
Gradually add separated milk, till at two
weeks it is all separated. Add a teaspoon-
ful of safonia to each kerosene-tin of sepa-
rated milk to prevent scours. Run the
calves in a well-grassed paddock. A calf
will pick the grass within a week. If you
have lucei*ne, feed it green. Leave a box
of coarse salt for the calves to get at.
Wean at three months old if the season
is good and grass plentiful. They generally
wean themselves.
I never have any trouble to make the calf
drink. First make yourself comfortable.
Sit on a block and hold the bucket the
same way as you do when milking the cow.
Face the calf and keep your finger in its
mouth and drip the milk on your finger; it
soon learns to suck. Gradually lower your
hand till it is in the bucket. After a few
pulls back the calf settles down to it.
HOBBLING THE BULL.
“Old TFinser”: Re hobbling the bull
I tried it to my cost. Not only were the
cows knocked about; the bull was also, so
that I had the cows coming in in the winter
instead of the spring. Later I built a small
pen, about 6ft. high, of posts and rails, put
so close that he could not thrust his head
between the rails, and I gave him plenty
of shade, food and water. That's the best
plan.
WHY CALVES GO WRONG.
“H.J.G.”: Many failures are found in
rearing calves; but skim milk in itself
cannot be blamed, as it is a food especially
endowed by nature for the purpose. When
trouble occurs it is generally due to the
non : observance of the following rules: —
(1) Absolute cleanliness.
(2) Regularity in time and quantity of feeding.
(3) Temperature—which should be 101-102 deg.
Fah., and never under 80deg.—this applies to all
calves under four months old.
Most of the calf meals on the market are
suitable as substitutes for the fat removed
by the separator. Linseed is probably the
best of all, and when soaked with water
and boiled becomes a jelly, a cupful of
which given to the calf twice daily in the
milk goes a long way in keeping it thriv-
ing. Cleanliness must be strictly carried
out, as filth germs are the greatest source
of trouble in calf-rearing. Scours are the
general outcome of neglect in this respect.
A cupful of limewater given in the milk
once daily reduces the trouble.
TO MAKE A BLOWFLY TRAP.
“Wrash”: Procure a sound, undented
petrol- or kerosene-tin. From one side cut
neatly a six-inch square, and from the top
centre a two-inch round hole. Over the
square, for light within, solder a patch of
wire gauze, and from the hole above, extend-
ing inwards, a nine-inch funnel of the gauze,
tapering to a bottom aperture just large
enough to admit a blowfly. Leave a few
strands of the gauze to project a quarter of
an inch onward and encircling the aperture.
From the bottom of the tin remove a four-
inch square, and half an inch around three
edgefe solder flanges for a slide of tin that
may be withdrawn when the trap is to be
emptied. Place a dead rabbit or lump of
offal in the trap, and firmly fix the bottom
slide. In a few hours you will have as many
flies as the trap can contain. Scald them
to death, empty out and reset the trap for
the next muster.
POTATO MANURING.
“Curlew”: In manuring potatoes about
two or three cw.t. of super, per acre has
proved most satisfactory. Lesser quantities
do not give as good returns; larger quanti-
ties do not give a larger return—in many
cases the effect has been to reduce the yield.
This is understandable when it is remem-
bered that before a manure or fertiliser con-
stituent can be appropriated by a plant it
must be dissolved. Also it must be remem-
bered that if the amount of manure is con-
siderable and the amount of moisture small,
the resulting solution will bo “strong”—and it
may be so “strong” or dense as to have a
positively deteriorating effect on the plant.
In this, in all probability, lies the reason
why heavy dressings of super, have not given
the returns expected.
The custom is to sow the super, at the same
time as the potatoes. This is a mistake.
Phosphates when dissolved are combined
with bases of the soil so that they are not
lost in drainage water. If applied as early as
April the manure would be dissolving over a
lengthened period and a greater proportion
be available in the spring and summer for
growing plants.
Where available farmyard manures are
particularly valuable for potatoes. Actual
manurial value is not the only advantage.
To grow good crops of potatoes the soil must
have warmth, good drainage, sufficient mois
ture and soft crumbly texture. Farmyard
manure does much to give these conditions.
Nitrogen (as sulphate of ammonia) in
small quantities is beneficial; so is potash.
But only in small quantities. Phosphates
are the outstanding need of most Australian
soils.
PEBBLES AND FOOT-ROT.
“R.H.”: If sheepmen whose flocks are
affected with footrot will try this method they
will soon get rid of their trouble. Mak
a trough or two sections of troughing to fit
in the bottom of the sheep-race, and with a
depth of about four inches. Fill the trough
with clean gravel, or pebbles for preference;
then fill with solution of bluestone, and
drive the sheep through the race a few times,
with at least an interval of one day. The
pebbles clean the feet. The sheep go through
much more slowly than they would if the
pebbles were not there, and thus ensure the
solution being worked well into the affected
parts. Pruning of the feet should be done
after the first or second treatment.
TOBACCO GROWING.
“Pondo”: First of all, I leave nothing to
chance. The seed-beds are harrowed to pow-
der after being turned to a depth of 10
inches. After sowing the beds are well cov-
ered with hessian, with six-inch boards round
the sides. Uninterrupted sunrays are essen-
tial. Watering of the seedlings takes place
only when absolutely necessary, and always
after sunset. Hence freedom from disease.
The best results in transplanting come in
the month of November. Heavy artificial
manuring up to lOcwt. to the acre seems
necessary, preceded by a dressing of five to
10 cwt. of lime, preferably six weeks before
planting.
Soil cultivation of the highest order is
absolutely necessary, and must be carefully
carried on right through the season. The
plants respond to every cultivation, and
quickly show the neglect of it.
For curing, none but ripe leaves are picked,
and only the best. All sand leaves are dis-
carded.
In a 12ft. barn about 30,000 leaves are
packed, and the heat is applied in the slowest
manner possible. Ventilation plays a part
in successful curing as important as that of
heat. And here it is impossible to advise
further, as every barnful is cured differently.
The principle of flue-curing tobacco leaf
is simply this: Keep the moisture moving
away from the leaf very slowly from the
time the required color is obtained until the
web of the leaf is dried out. On no account
'drop the temperature during this period, and
a clean, spotless cure is almost assured.
Successful curing and close observation go
hand in hand. And from beginning to end
nothing can be left to chance.
The Commonwealth and State Govern-
ments, with the British Australian Tobacco
Co., are said to be fostering the industry in
Australia. An expenditure of £lOO,OOO is
proposed. But, according to programme, the
amount will go in administration rather than
in practical experiment. Advisory experts
are imported from America at huge expense,
and these take many months acquiring a
knowledge of Australian conditions, which is
already the possession of the average grower.
After which the imported gentleman says:
“Tobacco leaf can be grown only in
America.” Of course he does.
Why not send a grower from each Aus-
tralian State to America? The cost would
be infinitesimal compared with the huge
salaries paid to American experts, and the
industry would be directly benefited.
PRUNING PRINCIPLES.
“Hop Scrub”: The growth of a tree in its
early stages is a matter of balance, not
between growth and production, but between
root and top. Put briefly, it may be said
that vigor varies directly with leaf area,
the reason being that the bulk of a tree s
food comes not from the soil solution, though
that is of course necessary, but as carbon
dioxide from the air; and analyses show that
the bulk of all the plant food is stored over
winter near the tips of the shoots —which is
why bush trees will sometimes shoot after
they have been felled for weeks. This plant
food in young non-bearing trees is mainly
nitrogen, and hard pruning of such trees
merely results in delaying growth until the
tree has made sufficient leaves to elaborate
plant food once again. .
If the pruning be done when in leaf the
results are even more disastrous. The classic
experiments of Pickering at Woburn (Eng-
land) are a case in point. Three plots ot
apple-trees growing under similar conditions
of soil and moisture were respectively pruned
hard, lightly and not at all. At the end of
a period of years the trees were carefully
dug out, weighed and measured. The un-
pruned trees headed the list for weight and
size. The hard-pruned specimens were n
poor last. .
In pruning there should be two distinct
objects. Firstly, form. Prune a tree so
(Continued on page 31.1


DO
1926
NEW MODEL WIRE STRAINER
HAS SIX GRIPPING SURFACES INSTEAD OF ONE
DONALDS improved 1920 Wire Strainer should be on every farm. Here are a few points of
superiority: It can be placed in position in two seconds —will stretch plain, netted or barb wire
—never slips on hard or soft wire.
DONALDS WIRE STRAINER works automatically and requires no skill—takes an
unlimited length of loose wire—wire does not slacken when strainer is removed—stretches wire
equally well at the post as at any part of the fence—folds into small compass—is-very light-
wire can be stretched, fastened off, and the machine removed in 45 seconds—does not damage
the wire. Every motorist should have one in his ear —invaluable when bogged.
DONALDS No.
The Vastly-improved “1926” Model
Now Available.
PRICE Only 22/6
Postage: N.S.W., 1/6; Interstate, 2/S.
DONALDS
WOOLPRESSES
PORTABLE.
This press is taken to the wool—not the wool to the
press. Designed for large or small sheds, wool stores,
etc. Fastest and easiest worked press made —10 bales
an hour being easily maintained. Use of No. 1 Press
ensures cheapest pressing rates.
PRICE—No. 2 PRESS £24
No. 1 PRESS £33
HOIST, Extra ... £3
F. 0.8. Sydney.
Strength, Quality and Workmanship
Guaranteed.
SEXD FOR FREE CATALOGUE.
FEATURES.-—lmmense leverage—power multiplied 100
times. Compact—works in less than 9 feet of head
room. Bale clear of boxes for sewing or attaching
clips. The No. 2 Press, illustrated, has a removable
back- a new feature. Bale-fasteners easily worked and
positive. Ease in parking—a special feature of the
press. No lifting- of Cap. Levers used for pins. Bale
instantaneously released. Parts accurately machine
finished. One man can work it. All main wool stores
(even those possessing other makes) use nothing else.
Made by the largest and oldest woolpress manufacturers
in the world.
Procurable from All Merchants or the Makers —
DONALD PATENTS LTD.
GLENMORE ROAD, PADDINGTON, SYDNEY.
fsd
JOHN JAMESON
★ ★ ★
WHISKEY
ALL JOHN JAMESON'S
Dublin Whiskey is made
from the finest procurable
malt and barley, and dis-
tilled by the same ex-
pensive process that the
Jamesons used in 1780.
This is the secret of its
wonderful smoothness and
ripe, rich distinctive
flavour. Drink it slowly,
and taste it carefully 1
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
15. SEP PELT & SONS, LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
PERKINS & CO., LTD., BRISBANE, Q.
MILNE k CO., PERTH, W.A.
Goldsbrough, Mort S Company, Limited
MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
.WITH WHICH IS MERGED THE BUSINESS OF
BADGERY BROS., LIMITED,
Wool, Produce and Insurance Brokers,
Auctioneers,
Fat, Stud, Store Stock and Property
Salesmen.
EXPERT SERVICE AVAILABLE IN EVERY DEPARTMENT
Inspect our well-lighted Wool Stores Stud Stock Sales conducted R.A.S. Sydney Show Sales, and Also Resting Paddocks for Stock
(capacity 80,000 Bales) at Pyrmont. Annual Stud Sheep Sales in our commodious Wool Stores. adjacent to Remington Saleyards.
ADVANCES MADE AGAINST WOOL, STOCK AND PRODUCE
AT
■X .>■ *
* m
& .... . *
SwS
RS&ft&h
liM*
PI
ilitllll
-
MUMP
mmm
B**
ill
■ .V^
i§ ukav; ''
f m
mmm
immmM
SECTION OF ONE OF GOLDSBROUGH, MO RTS RESTING PADDOCKS.
K. de L. GUDMORE, Manager.
CHARLES HOPE, Assistant Manager.
ADVISORY BOARD: A. H. MOORE, Esq. (Chairman); JOHN MACKAY, Esq.
H. MOSES, Esq.; J. K. CUDMORE, Esq.; R. H. ME ARES, Esq.


CHRYSLER
//
r:
n
n
SEVEN BODY TYPES
Tourer * Two - Seater * Coupe
DeLuxe Coupe * Two-Door Saloon
Four-Door Saloon * DeLuxe Saloon
Two-Seater and DeLuxe Coupe are equipped
with dickey seat
ONLY in Chrysler “52” can you buy
these qualities
Characteristic Chrysler speed and accelera-
tion, usable with complete comfort because of
unrivaled engine and riding smoothness;
Ease of handling unlike anything ever before
experienced in any low-priced cars;
Full-sized, roomy bodies of exceptional
fineness, equipped with saddle-spring seat
cushions;
Smartness and beauty of line and colour that
6et the pace for the industry;
Dependability and long life that result from
a precision of manufacture totally unknown
in the building of any other low-priced car;
The inevitably superior results of that
Chrysler Standardised Quality of engineer-
ing and manufacturing which produces the
Chryslers of higher price— “ 62,” “72” and
100 In p* Imperial “80”;
There you have the smart new Chrysler “5 2”
At its sensational values, public preference
acclaims it as more than ever the greatest
car in the low-priced field* See this great car
and ask for a demonstration*
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
77.5. W.: Larke Neave c 5 Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street , Syd
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.


t AH
i
' H
Keeps the feet fit
A pliant Abbey shoe of glossy
black velour calf. It has low-cut
sides that do not “catch” the ankle
and that fit closely all the time. The
lacing curves to follow the natural
arching of the instep this prevents
all strain and ensures an easy fit.
The toe is roomy, the heel non-
chafing and neatly shaped.
Designed for hard wear, this
Abbey shoe is comfortable from the
first time on.
Order by Post.
Practically a made-to-order fit
guaranteed—there are three widths
narrow, medium and wide, for
each full and half size. Ask also
for the correct Abbey Polish (6d.
per tin).
421- S.
40 -Page Catalogue post free
on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 j. ears
313 Georr'3 St. and 224 Pitt St.,
LBO. SYDNEY
The NEW Wieneke!
.sy
1Y
The Gulf
Champion,
£l5/15/-
Complete.
Posted any-
wliere in Aus-
tralia for 10/-
Stock Saddle
Here is the
dream of
every Stock-
man —the
wonderful
Genuine Wieneke
Perfect in shape
for horse and rider
Send for my new
book —150 pictures.
Post Free.
Yours, always working,
JACK WIENEKE,
c/o JOHN BRUSH,
871 George St., Sydney,
and
432 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
Cuticura Preparations
Unexcelled In Purity
For more than two generations
Cuticura Soap and Ointment have
afforded the purest, sweetest and
most satisfactory method of pro-
moting and maintaining a healthy
condition of skin and scalp. The
freely-lathering Shaving Stick
causes no irritation but soothes and
freshens the skin. The Talcum,
smooth and fragrant, is the ideal
toilet powder.
Soap Is. . Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: "R. Towns & Co., Sydney.N.S. W."
||Bs“ Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
GROCERS
THE “EARL” BACON CUTTERS, “made
in Australia,” are always at your service—made
in five models, prices £8 to £3B, cash or terms.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
HUMPHREY EARL, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY. Also at WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales j WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
Throughout the Year { HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock, Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney. JAMES KIDD, General Manager for Australia.
Walker-Welt'ord 2007
For Sheep, Cattle & Horse Paddocks
HIQH TENSILE
SPRING COIL FENCE
In addition to our Cyclone "Special” Spring Coil Fences,
the 5-line (25-in.) and 6-line (36-in.) fences are also made
with line wires of 12| gauge High Tensile Galvanised Wire
of 1140 lbs. breaking strain. High Tensile Wire is thus
approximately as strong as ordinary 10 gauge fencing wire.
Cyclone Pig Fence (8-line, 30-in.) is also made with line
wires of 12J gauge High Tensile Galvanised Wire.
CYCLONE HIGH TENSILE SPRING COIL IS A STRONG,
DURABLE, LIGHT-WEIGHT SHEEP AND CATTLE FENCE
f 5-line, 26 in. Fence - - £l9 10 O per Mile
PRICES • 6-line, 36-in. Fence - - £25 lO O per Mile
[8 line, 30-in. Pig Fence £39 O O per Mile
Cyclone Fence and Qate Catalogue is free
on request. Write or Call for a Copy.
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE CO. PTY. LTD.
. ommerce Bldg., Ash St. (off 350 George St.),Sydney
189-191 William Street, Melbourne
Exchange Buildings, Pirie Street, Adelaide
When
Ordering
Specify
High Tensile
Fence
IS'
that you have a sufficiency of good main and
secondary limbs for scaffold purposes. Second,
function; that is, fruit bearing. That s why
we find it necessary to thin out shoots to
admit light and air. No pruning at all
would result in a dense tree where many
shoots would die, having missed their place
in the sun. ~ ,
Fruit trees bear their fruit according to
species. Citrus trees, grapes and olives bear
on the wood they produce during the growing
season, i.e., current season s growth ; peaches
and ’cots, laterally, on one-year-old wood;
pears and apples, terminally, on spurs on
wood two years or over. In good seasons
they occasionally fruit on one-year wood, but
it is not their habit. Plums, prunes and
cherries fruit on spurs, but can bear on one-
year wood. Figs have the peculiarity of
ripening two crops, the first on one-year
wood and the other on growth of the current
season. .
Once a tree settles down into fruit pro-
duction the Composition of the plant food in
the shoots undergoes a change. Carbo-
hydrates become evident, and for the best
production a balance must be maintained
between nitrogen and carbohydrates. Shoot
growth is a good indication of this balance.
When a tree has been in bearing for three
or four years, and is not exhibiting at least
12 inches of new wood growth per annum,
it is time to cut hard. Varieties within the
species exhibit individual peculiarities, and
pruning treatment must be modified accord-
ingly. . ,
South Australian George Quinn has
produced the best practical handbook on the
pruning of fruit trees and vines for Aus-
tralian conditions.
RED POLLS.
“Sucker”: “W.P.D.’s” article on red
polls (B. 30/5/’2B) is good with one reser-
vation. They are all he claims of them—
provided they run on good country. Out
back they don’t stand a clog’s chance against
the hornies when it comes to a dry pinch.
A big cattle-owner commissioned me to get
him some red poll bulls. While I was still
looking for them the ’26 dry pinch came in,
and later in that year I located a suitable
mob. But my buyer was off. Lie took me
out with him and showed me why he had
changed his opinion. Grass was scarce,
scrub was in plenty. A horned bullock
would walk along, twist his horn round the
bough, give a heave and a snap, and that
bullock’s breakfast lay at his feet. Nor
only was he feeding himself, but smaller
fry were following and taking their cut
also. Where would a poly stand in that
operation? I know another large owner who
put red poll bulls in his herd, his idea being
that as they were good milk-producers the
progeny of the polls would be able to rear
lusty calves. After the ’26 pinch he also
sold his polls and substituted Herefords.
“W.P.D.” is right about bruising, about
lesser space required and all the other points
in their favor. But one live horny is worth
a multitude of dead polls.
FROST INSURANCE.
“L’Fou”: Those travelling incinerators for
orchards are right enough as a quick method
of destroying rubbish. But be sure a thing is
rubbish before you destroy it. The prunings
might better be reserved to help prevent dam-
age by frost. It is not the sum of frost for
the season which does the damage. Usually
a few late frosts at critical fruit-setting
periods cause the losses. A single bad night
may ruin a promising crop. To the market
gardener and orcliardist frost is serious
enough to call for insurance as much as fire
or drought. Frosts usually occur after a
fine sunny day, when prunings. if kept well
stacked up, would burn readily. Protection
is afforded by the film of smoke in the air,
not by the actual heat generated by the fires.
With a foundation of half-dry twigs almost
any rubbish can be pressed into service—
damp straw or waste oil from the garage.
Gumboughs and most scrubs will burn green,
with plenty of smoke. Even if fires are
kindled only in time to have a smoko film
overhead by the time the sun rises the worst
of the damage will be prevented, as it is the
sun which does the actual burning.
CODLIN MOTH.
“Curlew”: In two or three months’ time
orchardists will wake up to codlin moth, and
when the apple-trees are in bloom they will
get busy with poison sprays. But the proper
time to destroy the codlin is now—-they are.
not on the wing and cannot escape from a
shrewd man. Wherever apples have been
stored all litter should be burned and care-
ful search made for codlin pupae. All bough
bark should be scraped oit the trees on to a
couple of bags. These scrapings should be
placed in a tin and later burnt, as almost
certainly there will be a number of larvae
hidden in them. Now take a crowbar and
well ram the soil round the base of
each tree. It is surprising how great a
number of grubs find haven there. Having
done these few things you will have very few
moths on the wing in the springtime.
WHAT CITRUS TO PLANT.
“Nulla” (writing from Red Cliffs, Vic.) :
Navel, late Valencias, Emperor mandarins and
Mediterranean sweets are suggested. Navels
are the first on the list, and command top
price; but they will not hang long after
ripening or keep sound. As soon as navels
are done. Valencias are ready for market
and will hang and keep sound until the end
of December. Mediterranean sweets can
hang until the end of February without turn-
ing green again. And as navels are ready
in March one can thus have 12 months'
steady income.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Silentio”: Prior to washing the incu-
bator out for the season’s work, place a
saucer with a small quantity of Condy’s
crystals covered with liquid formalin in it,
and keep closed for a day. This will destroy
all insect life.
“Dai R.”: To loosen pipe joints, bolts,
nuts, etc., that have rusted firmly, apply
kerosene with a small brush or feather for
about five minutes, letting each application
soak in before applying the next. Then soak
a piece of rag (cotton waste for preference)
in kerosene, bind it round the part, and
light. Feed the rag as the oil is consumed
until the part is red hot. Then tap for
awhile on all sides., and a wrench with the
spanner will conquer the most obstinate case.
"Bridle’’: Some horses have a nasty habit
of throwing their heads up and pulling the
other horses about. Make a coupling coming
from both sides of the winkers at the nose-
band down to the hames; let it be loose
enough to allow the horse free use of his
head —until he starts fooling about. Then
it stops him quick. A couple of days of this
and you have a decent team-liorse again.
“N.M.L.”: “Bad Australian” may be what
his name implies; but lie’s a darned fine
horseman (B. 30/5/’2B). One point only he
omits in his “Handling a Young Horse.”
That is the judgment of equine character.
The main thing for a breaker is to get inside
the colt’s mind, as it were, and try to flunk
what that colt is thinking. This induces
confidence in both parties, and confidence is
the foundation on which a man builds a
sound structure. Another most vital point
he overlooked is that a breaker must always
“keep in on” his colt. He must stand close,
rub his body against that of the colt, and
in every way “keep in.” It’s a measure of
safety also.
“Westvke” : Although kerosene and oil are
good for dealing with the red mite in the
f'owlyard, I have found the lime-sulphur solu-
tion as used for orchard spraying by far the
best. It should be used at a strength of
one in eight and kept off the galvanised
iron.
“N.M.L.” : There’s only one way to handle
any horse with a hard mouth. Judge to a
nicety the exact amount of pull lie’s exert-
ing, and gauge your own counter-pull a
few ounces in excess of his. If that doesn't
achieve its purpose then a steam tractor
wouldn’t do any better. I’ve ridden these
so-called hard-mouthed horses in scrub —I’m
no theorist —and a sure way of courting
trouble with them is to pull. A horseman
never pulls as “Hugh Calyptus” (B.
23/5/’2B) advises. He handles a horse’s
mouth as light as he possibly can, and by
that delicate touch lie gets there.
“Mick Q.” : Cattle will fatten in priekly-
pear country even in very dry weather pro-
vided they are not given water. 1 have seen
heifers put in pear paddocks for the winter
and they have come out rolling fat. But
put those same cattle on similar country
that happens to be adjoining a river or is
well watered, and you'll find they will scour
and lose their condition, and many will die.
“Drover”: Beware of the wild-fuchsia
bush! Cattle travelling to trucks at Quilpie
from the Cooper have eaten it with disas-
trous results; in one mob of (100 over 100
died. It seems to thrive when drought has
wiped out all natural grasses and herbage,
and hungry cattle will feed on it. Western
Q. stock routes are covered with it, and
unless the department takes steps it will pre-
sent an everlasting terror to drovers.
“G.R.F.” : It is a mistake to pour water
on a pig’s back at any time. A much safer
plan if the pig is overheated is to pour the
water on the ground and let Dennis roll.
“Boyanga” : “Biro’s” fly-blown sheep mix-
ture (B. 13/6/’2B) went out with the blades.
There are several well-known preparations
on the market. Spirits of tar, Stockholm
tar, bluestone or any other ingredient that
stains the wool should be dispensed witln If
“Biro” prefers kerosene to the latest scien-
tific preparations he should at least substi-
tute castor oil for the spirits of tar; using-
in the proportions of one part castor oil to
two of kerosene, this mixture neither irri-
tates the sheep nor stains the wool.
“Atanta-Tyga” : Narrow strips of galvan-
ised iron, such as trimmings from edges of
sheets in tank-making, are handy things to
have about the farm. Splintered axe and
liay-fork handles, light swingles, buggy-poles
and shafts can be strongly repaired with
them, also reels of binders or harvesters.
Clamp the fracture tightly together; fasten
end of strip with a light nail or clout, and
wind snugly round spirally, tapping each
successive turn with hammer, and secure at
intervals with lin. nails. If a pole or shaft
is being repaired it is better to give it a
slight bend upwards before binding, or it
may sag. Fork- or axe-liandles should have
the strapping smoothed oil’ with fine emery.
I have used an axe-handle for two years after
repair, and a buggy-pole for several.
“Rob I'.”: Another use for rubber gloves.
When drenching sheep in a race, especially
rams, pieces of skin are sure to be knocked
off bare hands, and the arsenical mixture
gets into the cuts, and they won’t heal. Basil
gloves will do, but they do not save the hands
so well.
“Hornby”: A handy feeding-trough for
poddy calves is made from a kerosene- or
petrol-tin. Cut diagonally across one end
and down the sides, leaving the two halves
joined by the other end. (A tin-opener is
handiest for tin; job.) Open the two halves
out in the form of a twin-trough. _ Along
the tops of the sides and ends nail pieces of
batten —allowing a projection of about six
inches on each end of the side battens. Put
in the ground four stout posts, the required
height and distances apart, and to these
strongly nail and reinforce with wire the
projecting batten ends. You’ll find this dur-
able and clean.
“The Enlightened Cocky”: “R.R.R.” (B.
2/5/’2S) gets right home on me by asking
why try to make wheat-growing pay on 320
(not 360) acres. There are some of us trying
to make it pay oil 200 acres with a 10-bag
average. We took the words of those experts
in land settlement, the Closer Settlement
Board of Victoria, who considered land at
from £8 to £l2 an acre, with a limit of
£2500, a good farming proposition !
“Ei-omeno”: The Bulletin’s Service
Department lately told an inouirer re jack-
erooing: “A healthy, strong, intelligent lad
has a good chance of climbing to a job as
a station manager.” Yes, he has; but I'd
sooner have the chance of “climbing in
through the portholes.” The majority of
Central and West Queensland managers, at
any rate, are picked from men who have
lived in the huts, travelled the roads and
worked in the sheds.


Quality Cheated tie dcenxmd
Quality 'maint&ittA the Sale
Army Club
lO for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper.
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
&
I
1
<s*3
S>
m
» IP!
CORK TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
There are three ways of growing old
gracefully, ungracefully and disgracefully.
The third is often the best-paying proposi-
tion.
The most bitter man we have met for a
long time asserts that the road .to Hell is
not paved With good intentions, but with
confetti.
A PERFORMANCE OF CREDIT.
MILLIE: “Jack, I’ve heard indirectly that you can’t
meet your creditors.”
JACK: “ Mistake, dear, really. I can’t avoid the brutes!"
Boomerangs are not the only wooden
things which, completing a circuit, return
Hi the sender. There are, for instance, all
those literary efforts.
X. S. Wales voters are being implored by
I In- anti-prohibitionists to put their X in the
bottom square of the voting card. There's no
necessity to tell them where to put their
XXX.
Now that a woman’s fishing club has
been formed in Sydney, we expect it will
not. be long - before we have to listen to
.stories of the wonderful young men that
got off.
As a warning to motorists in Venezuela
a wrecked car has been placed on a pedestal
bearing the inscription: “ Despacio Be Va
Lejos.” The correct translation, we under-
stand, is, “He who drives a single-seater
should not take risks with stout pedestrians.
“Yairs,” said Dad. “1 knoo ’im once —a
ang-dog lookin' snake lie was—one of the
nnveiest cows you ever see outside a sty.'
The Law: ‘ Now, then, didn't ye see. me
signal? Phwat d'ye mean by not shtopping?
Tin pounds it’ll be widout the option.
Phwat’s ycr name?”
The Evader: “Michael llranigan."
The Law: “Now. why didn’t ye tell me
that before? Ye’d better move on, me bhoy
before I see ye.”
8. M. Herald advt.: “Wanted, square re-
tort. 6ft. long, 3ft. Gin. square, 201b. work-
ing pressure.” We have one, but prefer
to keep it for use on the next artist who
tries to bite our ear.
* *
She had some money left her,
But so fond was she of “life ”
That the money she had lef t her,
And now she’s but a wife.
A man is as old as he feels. A woman is
ohier than her mother looks.
HINTS TO HOMICIDES.
Biliks says it's high time the Houseflies
Association sent a deputation to someone , to
get a Royal Commission
sitting on these matri-
monial poisoning cases.
He says there’s far too
much unnecessary suffer-
ing going on, through
husbands and wives using
the wrong sort of exter-
minator. “Why can’t
the Government get out
a. little booklet of ‘Hints
to Homicides' so that
useful knowledge might:
be broadcast, instead of
giving doctors and chem-
ists an unfair advan-
tage?” He says that
after arsenicating a de-
crepit cat he’d hate to
use the same dope on his
mother-in-law, only lie
don’t know what else to
use, as lysol always up-
sets her. Binks says
there must be lots of
pleasant poisons that
could be taken (as much
as will lie on a sixpence)
in the morning coffee.
The little daily dose that
does it! He says there’s
no doubt that the nause-
ous. excruciating noxiosi-
ties in common use are
one of the main causes of
domestic infelicity and
unhappiness.
W. .1. Digger.
“Six nests of proces-
sionary caterpillars at
the London Zoo provided
the visitors with amusing
demonstrations of ‘follow
my leader,’ ” says a Mel-
bourne daily. Union offi-
cials are quietly confident
that the name “proces-
sionary caterpillars” wil
never displace the gener-
ally adopted term “trades
unionists.”
“What does inane mean?” asks a corres-
pondent. Oh, surely it’s not necessary to
mention the name of that newspaper!
.1 .saying should he tested twice.
This way awl. that, from- both its ends.
Thus over-kindness or advice
Prompts this: “Oh, save me from my
friends!'’
Bat when ill-lack or petty care
Conspires with food to disagree.
And turns me sore and sour, my prayer
Should be: “Oh, save my friends from
me!”
s.a. Bill O G.
“R.J.R.” : Brown is a motorist, but he’s
a sport all the same. While I was with
him in his car recently, an old fellow
stumbled and fell in front of us. Brown,
steering clear, went right round him.
“Couldn’t claim him, old man,” Brown ex-
plained; “he was squatting.”
A Sydney paper, describing a new bank,
refers to it as “a palace of marble and
bronze.” However, the thing that we still
admire most in any bank is the brass.
THE GENTLE REPROOF.
“The old church is wonderfully well pay served, sir, considering
it was built in Governor Macquarie’s day.”
“Yes, yes. There are so many of my flock who have never done
anything to wear it out."
MURDER!
[Mrs. Over-the-road has ealled on Mrs.
Neighbor, to be the first with the news.
Mrs. Neighbor is concerned with suds and
rinsing-water, and not inclined for visitors.]
Mrs. Over-the-road (preparing the bomb-
shell) : “Heard the noos?”
Mrs. N. (uninterested) : “No.”
Mrs. O-the-r.: “It’s hawful I”
Mrs. N.: “Hm.”
Mrs. O-the-r. (firing it) : “Mrs. Nextdoor’s
been murdered in ’er front garden!”
Mrs. N.: “His that so?”
Mrs. O-the-r.: “Yus ! ’Usbancl did it!”
Mrs. N.: “Did ’e?”
Mrs. O-the-r.: “Yus —there’s ber-lud every-
where.”
Mrs. N. (still unmoved) : “Hm.”
Mrs. O-the-r.: “A nawful mess, but the
rain’ll soon clean it up.”
Mrs. N. (rushing outside) : “Rain! My God,
and the clothes'are on the line!”
T. H.
HER FIRST STEP.
The darkness was intense. Advancing
slowly, the woman cautiously picked her
way. She stumbled and drew in her breath
sharply. Her knees were
beginning to tremble, but
with au effort she over-
came her weakness and
moved forward. “Why
be afraid?” she asked
herself. Hundreds of
others did as she was
going to do. As she
neared the dressing-table
a wave of conscience
swept over her and she
almost turned bqck. No!
She must go on. Too
late now for returning.
For some moments she
stood silently near the
bed, listening to the regu-
lar breathing of the
sleeper. Dare she do it:
Yes, she was desperate
enough • for anything.
Clenching one hand, she
slipped the other into her
husband’s trbusers-poeket
and extracted a note from
his roll,
ANOTHER FAIRY STORY.
And when the crowded tram stopped a
lady entered and immediately a young man
arose and offered her Ms seat. Sire accepted
it, smiling graciously, and said, “Thank you/’
Nowadays there’s seldom a slip twixt the
frock and' the hip.
Women are all alike —
Fowl weather or -fine —
Women are all alike —
A like that is mine.
n.s.w. I’. Pawnticket.
The difference between marriage and a
Melba concert is that one costs a lot to get
in to and the other a lot to get out of.
Speaking in Melbourne the other day, a
parson said that “the silent girl stands a
better chance of get-
ting married than the
talkative one.” She
has no doubt learnt
the old hunting axiom
that it’s not wise to
be talking when you’re
stalking.
A MATT AII OF
BUSINESS.
The Editah.
Dealt Sir, —Having
noticed in youah com-
mendable little papah
that you pay foah all
contributions printed,
A would like to send
in a claim. Being in
desperate straits at—
haw present, A
would prefer to have
the money rathali
than pawn (Ugh!)
the family heirlooms.
A hope you quate
iindahstand mai atti-
tude in the mattah.
For many months A
have contributed to
your papah and have
always succeeded in
having answers in the
Correspondence column
(an odious and, in
mai eyes, unnecessary
section).
A was struck by
the thought that as
you pay for everything
printed, A could claim
something for mai re-
plies. Reckoning this
at the rate of 2|d. per
laine, The Bulletin now owes me several
guineas. In mai first reply you said:—
“With his knife between his teeth and his heart
in his mouth, almost cutting- itself upon the edge
of the instrument, Daggaloni crept down the
corridor.” Is it drama or comedy ?
That is youah reply, but you printed that
much of mai story. Later, you repeated the
performance in my tale “The Oystah”:—
“ ‘Nevah,’ she cried, ‘I shall not marry you,
Oystah.’ Oystah turned and savagely seized her by
the throat. B'or a while they swayed and writhed
about the room, upsetting chairs and tables and
pianos and wardrobes. Then it was ovah. She
sagged in the middle towards him and he carried
her out.” Were they apache dancers?
Now fancy saying that! But this time you
used even more lines from mai story. Seven
plus two makes uaine. Name two pence
half-pennies make —deah me, how much? —
ah! 2s. 3d. On a third occasion this
appeahed : :
“The father’s eyes softened as tiie child came
forward. The mother’s heart melted. The daughter’s
hard voice dwindled to nothingness. The elder son
IT DID MAKE .I DIFFERENCE.
COUNTRY MAGISTRATE: “Well, suppose he was fight-mo
with the poiUndkeeper—that doesn’t prove the
prisoner was drunk, does it?”
WITNESS: “N-n-no, of course not. Bub-bub-but, you see,
your Worship, the pound-keeper wasn't THERE!"
turned and ran from the room with a sob after
him. The younger son began to break up com-
pletely." Sounds like a general dissolution.
Theah ; A have about: seventy-faive more
laiko that and will produce them for payment.
Please do not delay, as A urgently requinh
the rash.
A am,
Youahs faithfully,
August < Ttolmonivelev.
TO CYNTHIA, OR
The sheen upon her silken hose
And on her shingled tressesj
Her lovely cheek and. aye, her nose,,
That so invite caresses;
Her eyebrows dark from ’neath which gleams
Of love-light set me hoping
Are mostly due, or so it, seems.
To scientific doping.
The gems that deck her slender hands;
Her exquisite complexion;
The dainty shoes in which She stands;
Those rosy lips’ perfection.
Which pats a Cupid’s bote to shame,
And seems but made for kissing,
Would not, I fear, be quite the same
If chemists were a-missing.
The laving lingerie displayed
To stress her fine attractions,
It loo's indebted, to the aid
Of chemical reactions.
In fact, at times lam not sure
(It really is pathetic)
If what I love is Cynthia or
The purls that arc synthetic.
Q TXEKN STAND.
THE AGE.
RCONMY.
Wine, women and song are the spice
Of life, there is no doubt;
But I’ve (tot to keep down my expenses, so
T’m cutting the music out.
W.A.
PIP TOK.


a
v<«>v
p
X
my
n»nw
s Y % r viv^a*
Wi
v
':(ivm
„-.i,n»4 W«»e
U ,v » *T4<i
A*
-^v
THE CORK-LESS
BOTTLE
TLere is no cork in the Horse
Whisky hottle. Just unscrew the airtight
cap. And there s your whisky —soft and
mellowed by age. Incomparable bottle.
Incomparable whisky.
WHITEHORSE
Whisky
£
‘%X
l
No corkscrew required I


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
aCI
m
Sold by weight or
in Mb. cartons
by all grocers and
storekeepers.
THE CHEESE FOR EPICURES
Kraft Cheese is uniform and consistent in quality and
flavor. It is wrapped in tinfoil and is not exposed to
the impurities of the air and the dangers of continuous
handling.
And it is free from rind. There is no waste whatever.
All of it is eaten.
KRAFT CHEESE IS MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Made in Australia by
Kraft Walker Cheese
Co. Ply., Ltd., at
Riverside Amine, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.
HOTEL SYDNEY
Management: Edward T. Cheeseman.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel.
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
Throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
80ft. above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from 19/6
Bed and Breakfast from 13/-
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines).
Poverty
Point
“L. 0.” The worst example of stage fright
I ever witnessed occurred in an amateur
show at Temora (N.S.W.). We had
arranged a comedy to follow a brief con-
cert programme, and at the fall of the first
curtain I began to gather our team, but
found that cur principal comedian was
missing. Frantic hunting around the old
Victoria Theatre and the adjoining hos-
telry were without avail, and after a wild
search the delinquent was found in the
corner of his huggy-slied in a state of mortal
funk. He turned a deaf ear to our entrea-
ties to face the flaring footlights, and when
forcible removal was suggested, he armed
himself with a buggy wrench and threatened
to brain the first man who touched him.
We rushed back to the theatre and pro-
ceeded with the business, with the editor
of the Temora Independent reading the
missing man’s part. The audience took it
in the spirit in which it was offered.
“Kelby”: Gladys Moncrieff told me re-
cently that she thought there was a fortune
awaiting anyone who would engage a party
of Australian chorus- and ballet-girls to tour
England and Europe in numbers all their
own. She mentioned the famous Hoffman
and Tiller girls, who created a riot in Lon-
don and Paris on their arrival at those cities
from New York. Gladys says quite sin-
cei*ely that in her opinion the Australian
theatrical mis.' is much better than any
others she has ever worked with. As an
instance, she mentioned that the rehearsals
of “Rio Rita” were done here in half the
time they occupied anywhere else in the
world.
“A.G.M.” (Lond) : Not for many years
has any Australian singer been so acclaimed
throughout America as Florence Austral has
recently been. The middle of May found
her at the annual Maine festival, where she
sang great numbers by Gretchaninoff, Rach-
maninoff and Strauss. She aroused tremen-
dous enthusiasm by her rendering of Isolde’s
“Ixwe-Death” and the “Battle Cry of the
Valkyries.” In startling contrast, but no
less superbly rendered, was “Charmant Ois-
seau,” to which John Amadio played the
flute obligato. Earlier he won an ovation
by his solos, including Chopin’s Valse in
D flat and in Bach’s No. 4 Sonata. It is
generally conceded that nothing like his
playing had been heard in America. On the
same occasion orchestral versions of some
piano arrangements by Percy Grainger were
played.
“iCauboy”: All through the Melbourne
opera season there was persistent propa-
ganda aimed at inducing Melba to appear
as Mi mi in “La Boheme.” The propagandists
pointed out that as recently as three months
ago she had sung “Home Sweet Home” at
a concert at the Town Hall, as well as a
few other carefully-selected numbers. Such
people either have no notion of what such
a part as Mimi exacts from a singer, both
physically and vocally, or they take a morbid
sadistic delight in watching an elderly woman
making a fool of herself. The last-named
pleasure used to be a peculiarly Italian vice,
and managers were compelled to take notice
of it to the extent of putting on prima
donnas in their dotage for the express pur-
pose of allowing audiences to howl them off
again. The Italian theatre, like the Spanish
bull-ring, has since become more civilised.
All those who treasure the memory of Melba
will be thankful that she resisted the impor-
tunities—of Melbourne, at any rate.
“General Utility”: “Spokeshavc” says (B.
G/6/’2S) that stage fights are always ridicu-
lous affairs, but I have seen some dinkiun
scraps. Alf Woods was usually all out in iris
many pugilistic bouts, and Ilarcourt Beatty
trained for his fight in “The House of Tem-
perley,” and I saw his eye almost knocked
out in a fight with swords in “When Knight-
hood Was in Flower” in Maoriland, the late
Jerome Patrick being his opponent. And
what about Oscar Asche as Count Hannibal?
lie carried realism to the verge of brutality.
I myself was having a fist fight with an ex-
pug. in a bellowdrama at Rockhampton, and
—although I was the hero —I got outed with
one on the point and broke two ribs as I
fell over a chair. Ridiculous! Well, I
dunno.
“E.E.W.”: That there is still good going-
outside the cities for small theatrical shows
has been proved by Gordon’s players, now
in their seventh month of doing the smalls.
At present they are making their way south
along Bananaland’s river towns, living most
of the time in a carriage hooked on to a
goods train. Their repertoire consists of
“The Ghost Train” and another thriller.
“E.E.W.”: The lead opposite Lilian Davies
in “Marjolane” at the London Gaiety is
being taken by Maorilander Robert Geddes,
whom leading critics laud as both an actor
and a singer. He did well over there in
“Rose Marie” and in “The Silver Cord.”
Though Maoriland saw the beginning of his
career, the polish of his early training was
put on at the Melba Conservatorium.
“L.H.P.”: “Carmen” on the boards once
more recalls the row at the old Sydney
Opera House in 188!). Simonsen’s troupe
were giving the opera, with Dimitresco as
Jose and Louise Lablach as Carmen, and
in the last act Lombardi, the conductor,
made the tempo so slow that both singers
stamped their feet with rage. Lombardo
“OUR BETTERS,” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Geoffrey Millar as Bertie Paxton; and
Francis Lister as Thornton Clay.
put down Iris baton, and the music stopped
Then both artists addressed the audience,
who were standing and thoroughly excited.
Eventually Jose and Carmen finished their
duet without the band, and the rag foil.
They were repeatedly recalled. The co. did
not perform again : the ghost had failed to
walk.
“Rob IV : The question of “high” or “low”
is sure to get another newspaper airing,
with exchanges of recriminations, upon com-
pletion of the organ in Brisbane’s new
> Town Hall. Despite the protests of a few
diehards the new organ is “low” pitch, and
if certain wind instruments are to be used
with it they will have to be duplicated.
Australia is now about the only country
where the “liigh”-gitch fetich obtains,
although several Sydney theatres have given
it a nasty shaking by going “low.” Even
conservative England, with the exception of
a few stiff-necked institutions, is slowly
deserting “high." and falling into line with
the Continent and America. When it is
considered that most visiting orchestras
arrive here with low-pitch instruments and
that the average public hall and home piano
is still lower, the advantage of the adoption
of universal low-pitch to musicians becomes
apparent. As it is, the casual wind-instru-
ment player has either to provide himself
with two instruments or work with one
under difficulties and with indifferent results.
“S.N.O”: Amateur theatricals can be self-
supporting concerns. An operatic society
formed at Singleton (N.S.W.) six months
ago put on its first performance, “Our Miss
Gibbs,” recently, and in the two nights
cleared all expenses and had a profit of
£lOO.
“Cine Ma”: If the Bruce-Pages still
hanker after investing financially in moving
pictures they might study the experience of
the German Government. It has just written
off an advance of 1| million pounds made to
a dead co. whose aim was not so much amus-
ing the people as instructing them.
“C.R.”: Meta Pelham, who at 78 recently
appeared in Gregan McMahon's production
of “Dear Brutus” in Melbourne, first
appeared in Sydney at the old Victoria in
1870, the play being “Conquest.” In that
distant season she also appeared in “Kit--
gobbin,” a dramatisation of Lever’s novel
“Lord Kilgobbin”—as far as I know, the
only dramatisation of that author’s work
the Australian stage has seen.
“Hamfat”: The finish of the “Plit the
Deck” season at the London Hippodrome
has given new opportunity to Vera Pearce:
she plays an infuriated opera singer in the
new attraction “That’s a Good Girl!” It’s
a long time since the spectacular Vera left
Australia, and she has only occasionally
flashed into prominence overseas, although
the years, taken all round, have been pro-
sperous.
“Adam Ant”: Edmund Duggan, doing
well in Steele Rudd’s show in Sydney, has
not been the stranger to city stages of
late years that “Hamfat” (B. 6/0/’2B) seems
to think. Last year Ned played in “Sweet
Nell” with Nellie Stewart at the Melbourne
Royal, and at the Sydney Criterion and
Royal. He was also with Grossinith at the
Sydney Cri. a couple of years back. His
earliest essay with a metropolitan co. was
with Dampier in “Robbery Under Arms.” As
a young man in the early ’eighties he
appeared at Melbourne Royal in an amateur
production of “Hamlet.” his brother playing
the moody Dane. Eugenie Duggan. Ned’s
sister, is now r living in Melbourne. She does
a bit of broadcasting occasionally.
“Craiser”: Australian audiences will
good-humoredly put up with almost any-
thing from a woman, but they are quick to
resent false sentiment in a man. When
Jimmy Kemper, the latest American impor-
tation at Melbourne Tivoli, began his song-
and-story act on his first night he was
forgiven the slightly girlish inflections of
his sob-stuff memories of mother because
of the artistry of other turns. But when
he be°an the usual “impromptu” speech about
us folks being the nicest he had ever played
to and it was found to be in verse and set
to music, the crowd grew restive. At the
umpteenth verse somebody in the stalls
yawned to the bottom of his lungs. If James
doesn’t take due note of that danger signal
he won’t go far in Australia.
“Cine Ma” : Will the human orchestra dis-
appear from movie theatres'? It looks like
it, and the question is of moment, consider-
ing that about the only Australian feature
of the average programme nowadays is the
home-grown musicians. Of late years a host
of new inventions which threaten the or-
chestra’s supremacy have been launched
abroad, and the reason why they have not
yet been adopted here is not the entrepreneur’s
affection for the Musicians’ Union, but the
present excessive price of the inventions.
The orchestra broadcast to a chain of
theatres has long been in use in U.S.A., and
now devices are the phonofilm, the movietone
and the vitaphone. The success of some
of these has moved picture makers to em-
ploy well-known composers to write scores
for a film, jpst as is done with a grand-opera
libretto. They can lie canned and distri-
buted precisely as a picture is. and so alarmed
are American orchestrions at the prospect
that they have collected £200,000 to fight
the menace.
"Cauboy” : “I. Phelps” (B. (27/G/'2S) de-
liberately misconstrues my remarks about the
Gonsalezes, in order to splurge his 100 p.c.
Australianism and prove me a low anti. I
did not imply that Melburnians stayed away
from the season because they were not
music lovers like the Italians. They stayed
away because they speedily discovered that
the co., despite the drum-banging, was little
more than an average stock collection, such
as stump the G.eelong-Ballarat-Bendigo cir-
cuit of their native land. Hence the man-
agement—and nobody blames it —was con-
strained to beat up particular sections of
the populace, such as the Scandinavians, to
fill a void which, I can assure “I. Phelps,”
didn't ache merely in my imagination. Per-
haps “1.P.” doesn’t know that a Masonic
night was even contemplated, the bait to
be a gala performance of the druidical drama
“Norma.” Local Druids, however, failed to
see the connection, between their sacred
mysteries and the story of the vestal virgin
who loved a Roman legionary not wisely but.
too well; and so the project lapsed.
“Kouara”: The use of paper flowers on
the stage, mentioned by “P.H.” (B.
20/6/’2B), is not a mere convention. As
far back as the first London Gaiety co.,
led by Fred Leslie and Nellie Farren, the
wearing of real flowers was banned by the
Firm in plays in which dancers performed.
Carelessly dropped flowers or leaves on the
stage can be dangerous.
“Lao-dnh”: In “Turandot” Puccini fol-
lowed the Western convention which
holds that Chinese music is all noise, and
in the Melbourne presentation the orchestra
Jimmy Kemper sings
about his mother
to Melb. Tivoli.
o v c r 11 o w e d and
filled four boxes
with gongs, eym-
bals and other
clang y noi s e-
makers. The notion
is derived from the
dramatic orchestra.
In the old-style
theatre, still exis-
tent in the hutnnpx
of Peking, the seats
are placed, not
parallel to the
stage, but at right-
angles to it. The
Yellow theatregoer
attends a show
primarily to feed
and talk. When
the management
wants to draw
attention to a speci-
ally good bit of
business it in-
structs the orches-
tra to let out a
bang like a boiler-
factory in opera-
tion ; whereat the
house drops its
chopstick for a
moment and glances
sideways. True
Chinese music is
quiet and tinkly by
comparison, and
poets compare it to
the sound made by
moonlight falling
on still waters. In
any case, a musical
friend informs me,
Puccini attempted
the impossible in
“Turandot.” There
is no interval less than a semi-tone in West-
ern notation, whereas the Asiatic composer
revels in quarter-tones and possibly lesser
fractions. Still, the experiment is in-
teresting.
“Elless”: The name of Houdini is again
on the sky-signs of New York, the mantle of
Harry being carried by Mrs. Houdini and
Wm. Collins, the latter the late handcuff
king’s chief assistant. Collins was almost as.
important to the act as the performer on the
stage, and his mechanical knowledge helped
Houdini out of many a carefully laid trap.
It is not generally known that a punch (in-
vited by Houdini, who was proud of his
strength) caused appendicitis to develop and
cut short the great escaper’s career.
“Spero”: Miss Carrie Tennant's projected
production of Australian plays (B. 20/6/’2S)
is not the only encouragement at present
being offered to our playwrights. A theatre
guild has been formed in Melbourne, with
the object of fostering interest in Australian
plays; its following recently gave a very
successful performance of one-acters by Furn-
ley Maurice, Mostyn Wright and “Ivarta.”
Another society on similar lines, called the
Play-writers, lias also commenced in the
same city.
“Cyrano” (Lond.) : The honors of the
newest London musical comedy, “So This
Is Love,” at the Wintergarden, have been
captured entirely by the almost unbilled
Reita Nugent. Reita has been a tremend-
ous success, and her work with the show
has won her offers of importance from the
Shuberts in America. After her appear-
ance in “Oh Kay,” at Her Majesty’s, she
was allowed her choice between “Will of
the Whispers” and “So This Is Love.” The
latter won the day, perhaps because Cyril
Richard and Madge Elliott were playing
the juvenile leads in it.
“O. Kay”: “Gain fame in a character
role and become a set type,” is a movie
axiom. Well, Australian Dorothy Cummings,
who was Mary Magdalene in “The King of
Kings,” plays a similarly ladylike role in
the recent release, “The Divine Woman,”
an adaptation of the life of Sarah Bern-
hardt. If she sticks to portraying the type,
the gifted young Australian should never
be out of a job.
BALLADE OF MASCARA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sirens who delight the eye
When evening sees the film-wound reel
Unroll from some dim hutch on high
Pictures of infinite appeal
Upon the sheet where villains deal
1 n vices, open or unseen,
Long, beaded eyelashes reveal
Which seem to number seventeen.
Perhaps the dainty ladies vie
In making optic fringe congeal,
And eacli with zealous care will try
To glue the whole lot up piecemeal:
I know not, but I only feel
That, for appearance on the screen,
The flappers carefully conceal
All eyelashes save seventeen.
At time indeed I wonder why
The hero never seems to squeal
With dread when some fair face is nigh
Test laslies should impale like steel
Or tear like spikes on Catherine’s wheel;
Though what their number may have been
Nobody knows, but these are real
And count at random seventeen.
Envoy.
Prince, for the whiskers of a seal
Eight to the inch should be a mean,
And th y make scratches hard to heal—
Think of the rasp of seventeen !
N.S.W.
BYSOM AUBERE.


77i£ Nw*
&
i :?
vv
%
r
$
c
Oil pump very accessible, can
be removed without breaking
any pipe connection.
N
Tappets, very accessible for
adjustment. If necessary they
can be removed in blocks of
4 without disturbing any
other component.
Underslung worm of high
efficiency in oil bath.
Metal Universal Joints with
oil tight covers. Provide
smooth transmission, a great
improvement over the fabric
Joint.
ss
G 9
©
s^*
0
Neat Instrument Panel com*
prising clock, speedometer,
oil pressure gauge, ammeter
starter button and inspection
lamp plug—concealed
lighting.
Front wheel brakes of ample
size with accessible adjust-
ment .
Some Outstanding
Features of the New?
9 h.p. Standard
UNIT CONSTRUCTION.— Engine, Clutch, and
Gearbox with centre control in one unit.
CHASSIS. —A strong channel section, straight line
design with kick-up over rear anxle rigidly braced
by cross members.
ENGINE. —Four-cylinder, 9 h.p., side by side valves
detachable head, pressure lubrication by gear-
pump, magneto ignition. Electric lighting and
starting.
CLUTCH. —SingIe dry plate asbestos lined—-
exceptionally light in operation.
BRAKES. —Powerful—mechanically operated—Four-
wheel brakes, internal expanding type on large
drums totally enclosed.
SPRINGS. —Long half elliptic springs are fitted at
front and rear. The springs are fitted with two
re-bound leaves on top of the main leaf.
REAR AXLE. —Underslung worm type —absolutely
silent and running in bath of oil.
FRONT AXLE. —H, section beam of ample strength
fitted with adjustable roller bearings to front
wheels.
STEERlNG. —lrreversible screw and nut type, giving
easy and accurate steering.
Factory Representative :
ROBERT F. LEE, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
ALL BRITISH MOTOR HOUSE LTD,
Russell Street, Melbourne
Disti ibutors:
CARS OF BRITAIN LTD.
Adelaide Street. Brisbane
MORTLOCK BROS. PTY. LTD
Hay Street, Perth
Agencies availabe in New South Wales and South Australia
7/ca STANDARD MOTOR C? COVENTRY
ENGLAND


V
LT
N
p
\\
-^jlS
3
%
n
yt^.-
66
Mrs L. Lyons, Hope Street.
Brisbane, writes: —“For rheu-
matics I found Zam-Buk re-
markably beneficial. I melted
the balm into liquid state,
then rubbed it well into my
arms and shoulders. Zam-
Buk quickly subdued all pain
in muscles and joints, and in
a short time completely rid
me of the rheumatism.
“I have also used Zam-Buk
for sore throat. Irritation and
soreness soon disappeared when
my neck was thoroughly mas-
saged with the balm. My
daughter suffered with bad
attacks of neuralgia, but
Zam-Buk completely took the
pain away.”
Mrs. E. Ryallittl Car?ili Road
Cavarsham, S. Dunedin.. N.Z.,
says:—“Zam-Buk has proved
highly satisfactory whenever
the children have had colds
in the head or on the chest
Breathing Zam-Buk’s medicinal
essences into the nostrils, anc
rubbing a little of the balm
under the nose and across the
forehead, soon loosens a cold,
makes breathing easy, and
clears the head.
“Kubbed well into the
chest, Zam-Buk brings ready
relief and removes all con-
gestion. Zam-Buk seems to
penetrate right to the weak
spot. It ends chest trouble
in np time.”
Dub it in
TO END YC
ff
YOUR
ACHES & PAIHS
'THERE is much virtue in rub-
bing; but with the aid of
Zam-Buk, healing warmth and
valuable medicated oils are carried
to the seat of the trouble —be it
a cold on the chest, a sore throat,
a strained muscle, or a twinge of
rheumatics.
The refined herbal essences in
Zam-Buk readily soak through
the tiny pores into the deeper
tissue. Pain and irritation are
thus attacked at their source and
any poison setting up inflamma-
tion is actively drawn out by
Zam-Buk.
The feature of Zam-Buk is that
it contains none of the lardy fats
and coarse mineral drugs which
obstruct the healing work of
ordinary ointments. Zam-Buk is
of purely herbal origin and a
unique preparation.
ini The Soothing and penetrative power of
Zam-Buk is only equalled by its rare
antiseptic healing for superficial injuries.
“Rub it in” in cases of stiffness in muscles
or joints, strains, sprains, rheumatism, lum-
bago and neuralgia, or to eradicate chills.
Zam-Buk Balm 1/6 and 3/6 box. Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap 1/- a iablet.
All Chemists and Stores.
THE GREAT HERBAL BALM
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
f
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend
ing travellers are recommended to
apply sit once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life BuiWir-
(Next G.P.0.).
The
Battery you can
rely on—always
Fit a P, & R. Accumulator to your
car and you won’t find it lacking when
most you need it. The right P. &R.
will turn an engine over against the
stickiest oil or the highest compression.
The reason is simple. The P. &R.
is built to give a powerful and healthy
rush of current to the starter. It is
built with the knowledge that when
the starter button is first depressed the
battery is delivering current through an
almost complete short-circuit.
That is why inter-cell connectors on
the P. &R. are copper-cored. And
that, in turn, is one of the reasons
why the P. & R. lasts in service.
AND
PETO A. RADFORD
ACCUMULATORS
the beginning and the end in
Powtß
Before you buy any
battery write for
special booklet to
address below*
sdf
Direct Factory
Representative :
John Arnold,
Degreaves Buildings,
Degreaves Street,
Melbourne.
A. G. HEALING, LTD.,
Melbourne.
SMITH SONS & REES, LTD.,
Sydney.
ROY HILL & CO., LTD., Adelaide
MOTOR VEHICLES, LTD.,
Perth.
E. REYNOLDS & CO.,
Wellington, N.Z.


DO YOU WANT TO ENTER A PROFESSION?
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life. A profession in
which competition is limited and which offers wonderful opportunities if you have any ability
and are persevering-. Our tuition gives opportunities to students not to be found elsewhere.
Write for our booklet, telling of positions, salaries and fees, to-day. Start your new career NOW.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching- College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
This Pattern Every Time
at 40 Yards
Consistency of pattern is proof of
the reliability and superiority of—
ELEY-KYNOCH
All-British
CARTRIDGES
Therefore, Buy British,
Because They Are Best.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL GUNSMITHS AND
DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA,
obei:
sd
fsd
fs
.•X
. •*
•• <
.. •••«. •♦•••
•* .V • •
* • • *1
5 .
V •
•».»
.»,V
• •
Registered Trade-mark.
HRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A
LIFETIME’S
U I
fiepresentatives;
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST. LTD..
Sjdney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO.,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY.
Sheffield,
England
m
No. 13fv
SAFE with GUYATT’S t
df
The improved Guyutt
Elastic Truss is the latest
and most efficient Elastic
Truss on the market to-day.
It has been altered and
improved in several import-
ant points of construction,
until its strength, efficiency
and durability have been greatly increased. A careful
examination of this Truss will prove every claim
made for its advantage over others.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
GUYATT & CO.,
Expert Makers of Surgical Appliances,
Dept. 8., 257 a George St., Sydney.
Opposite Bridge Street.
Sleep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed- —
sd
\jsep fie fsunUhuj
rMh Emio $
Good health is the greatest prize in the world, and it
often depends upon one small, but very important
thing; the regular clearance from the system of
the waste products of digestion. The neglect of
your ‘‘inner health’’ may lead to the most
serious illness.
Yet how easily and pleasantly ENO over-
comes this danger. For generations the
pleasant, health-giving practice of taking
a glass of water sparkling with a dash of
ENO first thing every morning has been
passed down from father to son, and
from mother to daughter. Keep good
health in your family; have a bottle
of ENO always in the house.
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Prepared on!? by
J. C. ENO, LTD.
London, England.
Sales The
British Harold p.
RitchiesSCo., Ltd..
Sydney, N.S.W.
* ♦
#
IN
TWO SIZES
at Chemists
and Stores
THE WORDS "FRUIT SALT” AND ENO AND THE LABEL ON THE PACKAGE
ARE THE REGISTERED TRADE MARKS OF J. C. ENO, LTD, LONDON, ENGLAND
The Struggle for a Crust.
Pneumonia claimed (1. B. Neil in Eng-
land some days ago. A Bananalander, lie
went overseas some years ago, and at the
l itne of his death was publicity manager
of the Daily Mirror.
“A.G.M.” (Bond.) : Captain Wilkins is
getting handsome terms from Bonn, the Lou-
don firm which is to publish his book in
the autumn. The title decided on is “Col-
lecting in Tropical Australia.”
"Ruetama" : As one of a Bush Book Club
< ommittee, I see some queer requests. One
out back reader wrote asking for books by
Nat Gould or Arthur Wright, or any good
racing yarn, such as “Pilgrim’s Progress.”
The most common request, however, is for
“something to make me forget the mort-
gage” or “something to chew.”
Gone to the place where the pens are all
made of angels’ wing-feathers, Frank Brown,
for 30. years Stock Exchange reporter for Mel-
bourne Herald ; he collapsed after an
operation. Brown was a man of high attain-
ments, and won his degree of Bachelor of
Commerce at Melbourne Uni. while still
doing his paper job.
Adventures in Sydney
The pencil drawings of Ashley Cooper make a
pleasing show at the Pine Art Gallery, Sydney.
The chief interest lies in the artist’s treatment of
vapidly vanishing' parts of the city. Scots’ Church
(which has already gone) and Miller’s Point
and old Cumberland-street are typical subjects, and
make pictures that have historical as well as
pictorial value.
COLD WATER.
THE SPORTING REPORTER: “I tipped all the
winners last Saturday.”
THE RELIGIOUS DODO: “Oh, yes! But they
would have won, anyway.”
A weekly called the Live Wire is pub
lished by the Commission at Yallourn
(Vic.), where the brown coal comes from.
It consists of three sheets, and is a boost
organ for the town’s business, which is also
under the Commission’s control. In fact,
the only thing that the Commission doesn’t
appear to run there is the S.-P. business.
The rag has one merit—it’s free.
Canvassing the Real Australian: —
The casual Australian is given a pictorial outing
in Tom Roberts’s large oils, “Bailed Up,” the
principal feature of that veteran’s exhibition at
the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney. Roberts got the
detail at first hand from a Cobb and Co. driver,
Bates, who was held up near Inverell (N.S.W.).
Instead of the flurry of horses, flying bullets and
emotional hysterics of the popular idea of a holdup,
those present appear almost nonchalant. The show
contains several small efforts that are gems—“A Pile
of Evening Cloud,” “Peace After Storm” and “A
Forest By Sassafras Creek” are three of them.
“Nikki”: Maoriland’s efforts to grow to-
bacco haven’t as yet had any very conclu-
sive results. The Government sent a trial
shipment to London, and prices ranged from
2s. 2d. to lOd. a pound. The Maorilanders
were told that they had almost everything
to learn about cutting, grading and packing,
but that they were turning out a good,
sound, sweet-smoking leaf, suitable for
blending with Virginian, and comparing
favorably with other Empire-grown to-
baccos. If the excise duties, which run
up to 6s. 3d. a pound, were cut out the
tobacco-planters would have a good chance
in their own market, at all events.
“T.P.”: When critics slate Edgar Wallace
for turning out his novels and yarns by the
gross through his literary sausage-machine,
1 think of Guy Boothby as a clerk in
Adelaide earning £3 weekly, and then as a
novelist in London banking £BOOO p.a. Kip-
ling wrote, “Mr. Boothby’s novels sell like
hot cakes, as they deserve to” —a bit of
criticism which pleased Guy and didn’t hurt
Rudyard. When a man knows his work at
its best lacks the divine spark, which means
long life, isn’t it sensible to go strong while
the going’s good?
A note from a man in Buenos Ayres:—
It is not only in Australia, Maoriland and London
that Anzae Pay is remembered. Here in South
America we have a sort of a club, kept together
largely by Oliver Gray, and last Anzae Day 51 of
us met and had a meal together and swapped
memories. After we had talked of the great land
we had left the 51st rather startled the other 50
by asking bluntly, “Then why did you blighters all
leave it?” Of course, we talked about strikes; but
when all was said and done it seemed that most of
us just wanted to climb the hill to see what was
on the other side. Some of us have found a job.
the best one worth aiOOOO a year; others of us
a wife.
“Kuna”: Maoriland, a great consumer of
oranges, all imported, is impressed with the
efforts of the Cook Islanders to capture the
trade. All Cook Island fruit is now
machine-graded to ensure uniform size, and
then hand-graded according to degree of
ripeness into the cases. A shipment which
arrived at Auckland in specially-designed
cases exhibited remarkable uniformity in
quality, size and ripeness.
Warde Morgan is back in harness again,
still not quite fit, though not useless; but
another victim of the railway accident which
involved the Marie Burke co. has not yet
been able to leave hospital. Cass Downing,
the orchestral director of the company, was
so badly hurt that he has only lately been
moved to the Walker Convalescent Hospital,
after two years of suffering. He is being
given a benefit matinee at the Palace this
month.
“S.T.S.”: Tom Roberts would have been
pleased to see the attention his “Breakaway,”
in the Adelaide Art Gallery, earned from the
Japanese naval men. They seemed anxious
to get something really significant of Aus-
tralia ; Roberts’s picture shows a sun-
scorched up-country road, and a mob of
sheep breaking away down a steep hill at the
scent of water, to be hogged at the foot of
it. It always drew a crowd during the
Japanese visit; the Admiral himself, after
getting hold of its full significance, explained
it to a large group of his officers.
“Sylvan”: Admiral J. de M. Hutchison
claims to have discovered a commercial use
for prickly-pear. He says that the leaves,
sliced and boiled, make a size which is abso-
lutely waterproof and sticks like glue. When
he was on the Zanzibar coast years ago the
climate turned all the white paintwork of
his ship black in patches. He extemporised
some paint out of ground coral lime and
prickly-pear juice, gave the ship three coats,
and astonished his admiral —he was at that
time a captain—by the spick-and-span
appearance of his craft. Sailors are re-
sourceful chaps!
“Kelby”: The newly-founded College of
Surgeons of Australia is threatening to
produce a magazine of its own, which
will cost half a guinea a copy and appear
about three times a year. The threat re-
minds me that the B.M.A. talked a lot
about bringing out a medical journal for
the general public a couple of years ago.
The idea, an excellent one, was to give the
man in the street some useful health hints
and to help him correct the many erroneous
and exaggerated statements contained in
the advertisements of some of the less
scrupulous advertising patent-medicine pro-
prietors.
“Cyrano” (Lond.) : A member of the
Sydney Sun art staff and later of the Syd-
ney Telegraph, R. D. Mackie, packed up
pencil and brush last year, and worked his
passage to London as a stoker on a Com-
monwealth liner. He arrived in London with
fourpence, and got himself the post of art
editor of the now extinct Westminster
Gazette. When the paper was sold to the
Daily News, Mackie was one of the three
men kept on by the new company, and
within three weeks took over the art editor-
ship of the Daily News. He is in his
arly twenties, by far the youngest art
editor in the Street.
“Brora”; Industry and talent, combined
with a sharp business sense, are bringing
their full reward to Jack McLaren, now
practically sleeping next to his Remington
in London. In the coming English autumn
he will issue another novel dealing spectacu-
larly with some of his memories of the
wild life in the interior of New Guinea.
About the same time a boys’ book will also
be issued. Meanwhile he is trying to keep
his desk clear of appeals for work from
American and English serialising agencies.
The Pulitzer people, who control the New
York World, would like to hear from him,
and Hearst’s two big publications, Cosmo-
politan and Maclure’s, are asking him for
matter. This, with his regular contributions
to the Manchester Guardian and London
Daily Mail, leaves him unable to see
visitors between 9 a.m. and 3 the follow-
ing morning.
“Ller’ : Once, when I worked on an N.Q.
daily, we had several standing pars, which,
by the alteration of a word or so, made
good fill-ups. One. was in reference to . new
arrivals. “Mr. Soandso arrived by the
Bombala yesterday, and will take up resi-
dence here”; then the stereotyped bunk
about being an acquisition to our progressive
township. Incidentally, bribery and corrup-
tion was rife among us. My mate often got
a half-note for printing a par. about one of
the Chinese merchants. One I remember
brought forth the editor’s wrath. A wealthv
Chow who had three wives and 27 children
found oue of his wives kicking over the
traces. The par. was published as a -warn-
ing that if she didn’t behave in future sic
would be shipped to China. The wilv Chow
thought that if it were printed as news there
would be an authoritative ring about it. Any-
way. we divided two notes over it. Damn the
editor!
THE STRIDES OF SONG.
[For The Bolleiin.]
Since Fortune’s choicest prizes
Reward the resolute,
The frugal bard devises
New measures for his lute.
And founds a simple wish on
The hope that some fruition
May crown his mild ambition
To write a winter suit.
I see the wondrous bargains
In Israel’s tents each day,
But I compute my far gains
And sadly turn away;
Like Mr. Mantalini,
I quail before the sheeny—
Nay, worse, for nota bene.
His wife could always pay.
But though I am not brilliant,
I still shall plug along,
And labor like the silly ant,
Though mine the path of song:
My fountain-pen’s a trusty ’un,
And midnight oil’s combustion
Will earn, me humble fustian,
Not elegant but strong!
x.s.w.
FORLS DONLT.


Do You Realise
jAtMm
make Sets of
GOLF CLUBS
to Suit every Purse I
Pitcher ' Manhie N J h»?e Iron MidMashto Midlroi; Driving Ir
New 1928 “SWEET SPOT” Custom Made Sets
KROFLITE IRONS
Uniformity conserves energy; it ensures the repetition of an act.
Uniformity is the most important essential in golf. Great golfers
are great because they have a uniform swing—they can swing in
the same “groove” every time. With the average set of clubs this
presents difficulties. But not so with Spalding, who have made
every club in the bag feel exactly alike with the “Kro-Fiitc” Set.
In Spalding clubs the shafts are exactly matched. There is an exact
increase in pitch from one blade to another. There is also an exact
variation in the lie of each club. The distance you stand from the
ball is automatically determined. Such absolute uniformity must bring
greater uniformity to your game.
Set of 1
fiio'lo'o
Set of 5
£7'lO'«
KROFLITE WOODS
With Inlaid Face. Custom-made Sets Spoon to Match if Required
NOTE. —The important feature of these clubs is that, unless a driver and brassie are
perfectly matched from the very beginning of their manufacture, it is practically impossible
to select two regular clubs from stock that are directly related to each other.
fs
KROFLITE
AUTOGRAPH MODEL
Clubs of very finest quality and equal in every way to our Custom-made Sets, but
manufactured as single clubs only. Finished with highest-grade hickory shafts and
long, best-grade calf grips. Made in Men’s Right and Left Handed and Ladies’.
35'
m ea.
“CRESCENT” WOODS
These Clubs are made up with a fine-grade hickory shaft, persimmon wood head,
striped, aluminium sole plate in driver, brassies and spoon.
Made in Men’s Right and Left Handed and Ladies’.
ea «
“CRESCENT” GRADED IRONS
These graded Clubs are wonderful value and beautifully finished. Popular model
heads, made up in men’s right and left hand, and ladies'. Can be bought in sets or
single clubs.
ea.
“THISTLE” WOODS
Good grade hickory shaft and persimmon head, striped.
Made in Men’s Right and Left Handed and Ladies .
a* ea.
“THISTLE” IRONS
A very well-finished, low-priced Club, made in Driving Iron, Mid Iron, Mashie Iron,
Mashie Niblics and Putters.
ea.
A. G. Spalding 8 Bros. (Australasia) Pty. Ltd.
352 Kent Street, Sydney.


A MAN in
LONDON
needing clothes can visit a “show” shop and
be duped; or he can patronise a West End
establishment where, even after the customary
10 per cent, discount for cash, ho will be
helping to pay for those who never do; or he
can find a Tailor whose standing is unquestion-
able who makes clothes for cash payments only.
Mr. Jennings, of Newgate Street, London,
has been in business for a quarter of a cen-
tury, and has a large clientele in Australia.
Only cloth made by reputable manufacturers
from finest Australian tops is countenanced.
The cutters he employs are live men with wide
experience. All clothes supplied by Mr.
Jennings are made by hand, and complete
satisfaction is guaranteed.
His modest prices are based on cash pay-
ments only, Lounge Suits, for instance, costing
from 7 to 10 guineas.
W. G. JENNINGS,
119 Newgate Street, London, E.C.I.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Bedfern, Sydney.
[2
South Australia’s Most Modern
Hotel is
Hotel Richmond
128-130 Rundle St., Adelaide.
Now Open to Receive Guests.
Hot and cold water and telephones
in every bedroom.
Rooms with private bath. Every con-
venience for comfort of guests.
Tariff, inclusive Board, 22/6 per day.
Private Bathrooms extra.
A limited number single rooms 20/-
per day.
Telephone: Central 606.
W. A. PIPER, Proprietor.
SORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Longlands proved himself an uncommonly
good hurdler in the Grand National on Satur-
day—better than this Page bargained for,
although it summed him up as “a dangerous
lightweight.” In the rear division for at least
half the journey, the young Pershore —Barley
Bree gelding gradually improved his posi-
tion, and took charge between the four- and
live-furlong posts. From that stage he gave
nothing else a chance, and his four-lengths’
margin at the finish could have been doubled
at least had Ivnevitt ridden him out. It
was a feather in the cap of Yin O’Neill,
owner and trainer, to capture so difficult
a race with a young horse who only the
previous Saturday had scored in a Maiden
Hurdle at Williamstown.
There were 17 starters, and Henare, who
had supplanted Pildin as a popular pick
a day or two before the race, was firm at
4 to 1, Pildin being a point longer. Johnny
Cake, Woolpack, Biologist and Royan were
at tens, Longlands at twelves, Ooybeau and
Render at sixteens, Bligny and Giff at twen-
ties. Bligny and Royan, and then the rank
outsider Woomanga, were the early leaders,
but passing the stand the second time Giff
took up the running from Johnny Cake,
Royan, Biologist, Kendler, Bligny, The
Ringer, Coybeau, Woolpack, Henare and
Pildin, who had lost ground at one of the
jumps,. Johnny Cake headed Giff nine
furlongs from home, but, moving up rapidly
in the next half-mile, Longlands forged ahead
of Johnny Cake, and at the last hurdle had
a lead of six lengths. The race was then
over as far as first place was concerned.
Second position went to Valbee (50 to 1),
the candidate from South Aus., who finished
very fast and beat the tiring Johnny Cake
by three lengths; Woolpack was 10 lengths
further back, and Kendler fifth. Henare
and Pildin never looked like winning, and
Biologist, after being prominent for a time,
finished a long way back. Knevitt, who
gave a cool and polished exhibition of
horsemanship on O’Neill’s black gelding, is
very light for a rider over the sticks; he was
apprenticed to O’Neill till recently. The
time was smin. 38isec —3£sec. outside the
record for the race, established by Fiscom in
1921.
With Migrant and King David scratched
there were only seven starters for the Maiden
Hurdle. Mt. Pleasant was at the short price
of 5 to 4, and when the leader, Adsum (11
to 2), blundered at the last hurdle backers
of the favorite looked like collecting. But
Inkson rode a most determined finish on
Adsum, and that animal beat Mt. Pleasant
by a couple of lengths. He is a three-year-
old gelding by Cicero! —L’Amour. There was
a numerically poor field in the Kensington
Steeple also, only six chasers being saddled
up. Nyangay, who won this race last year
and went on to win the National, was an
even-money favorite. He jumped well, and
was in front most of the way, but Namera
(4 to 1) wore him down and beat him by
four lengths, old Mailman (8 to 1) being the
same distance away.
The flat-racing was chiefly remarkable for
the surprise win of Muratti (32 to 1), a
thing of Wren’s, in the Iranioo Welter, and
for Ragazzo’s success, at 10 furlongs, in the
W inter Handicap. For this race Norman
Falkiner’s mare Spear Maiden was first choice
at threes, Ragazzo, who is owned by Norman’s
brother Otway, being at fours. The mare, who
must have cost the stable a small fortune,
never showed up ; on the other hand, Ragazzo,
though one of the last to leave the barrier,
came through brilliantly and won by two
lengths from Batteryman (7 to 1) ; Vagrant
was third. Ashley Reed, who was on the
chestnut at Williamstown, again had the
mount, the time being 2min. Gfsec.
The field for the Grand National Steeple
will not be a large one, but quality is well
represented, since past winners in Clan
Robert (12st. 121 b.) and Nyangay (list. 71b.)
are engaged. Clan Robert, a great horse at
Flemingtoh, is entitled to every respect.
Nyangay has 41b. less than he carried into
second place behind Namera, who will have
the same burden —lOst. lib. Glentronie (9st.
101 b.) is a fit horse, but his credentials are
not so good as those of Cliaumont (lOst.
31b.), who has done a thorough preparation
and has pace above the ordinary, besides
jumping ability.
Cbaumont is selec-
ted to win, with
Namera and Clan
Robert for the
other positions.
M. Poison, a
shrewd trainer who
is about to transfer
his operations from
Moorefield to Rand-
wick, has a useful
sprinter in Bright
Poppy by Popinjay
—His Biscuit. After
a successful trip
to Dubbo, Bright
Poppy was pro-
duced in the Flying
Handicap at Rose-
hill on Saturday,
and backed from
tens to sixes. Get-
ting the best of a
poor start, thanks
in part to Bartle,
Popinjay’s offspring
shook off Goodstead
(10 •to 1) in the
straight and won
nicely from Woo-
licia (16 to 11 and
Gold Brick (s’s) in
lmin. 14sec. dead.
Wedding Eve. look-
ing bright after a
spell, was fourth,
just ahead of the
well - backed Less
Noise, but the fav-
orite, First Acre,
disappointed and
there seemed little
excuse for him.
Goodstead, however, took a lot out of
himself by breaking through the barrier
before the actual race and coming down,
the fall necessitating a change of riders, so
he ran rather well in the circumstances.
Backers were on the spot in the Rosehill
Handicap, for which Blather, 5 to 2 early,
came to 7 to 4. Ridden a waiting race for
once by little Bourke, the lean Magpie-
Charade gelding hit the front in the straight
and, though tackled by The Lance (12 to
1), a visitor from Victoria, who shaped
pretty well at Randwick on liis last trip
to Sydney, was doing a bit the better at
the finish. Flinders (20 to 1) was third;
Zuleika (4 to 1) failed to stay the 10 fur-
longs, which were run in 2min. 6fsec.
Spruiker (5 to 2). another Magpie, enabled
Pike to add to his impressive score in last
races after an interesting tussle with the
English-bred Sharp Son (9 to 2) and New
Fire (10 to 1) in the Carlingford Mile.
There was some comment on the fact that
Spmiker’s showing was a great improve-
ment on his last exhibition at Moorefield;
but it was heavy going that day and
Spruiker. like most other members of the
family, dislikes a yielding track. He was
saddled up by the younger William Kelso,
who prepared six winners during his
father’s brief trip to the other side of the
Pacific and back.
It was a surprise to see Prest start at 4
to 1 for the Maiden Handicap—and fives
were offered. In a much better field at the
previous Rosehill meeting this Paper Money
—Ermengarde gelding had divided the honors
with Inflation, only to be placed second as
the result of a protest; and the handicapper
had not been hard on him. He had the race
won after three of the seven furlongs had
been traversed; and there was some applause
for Jimmy Munro, whose first winning mount
it was after a twelvemonth’s “retirement. ’
* * * *
Fancies for Moorefield on Saturday:—
Kogarah Stakes: Good and Gay or Val-
halla (both Kelso’s).
Moorefield Mile : Zuleika ; next, Cute Bird.
Moorefield Handicap : Nobbys ; next, Lud-
denham.
Welter Handicap: Prometheus; next,
Prest.
❖ :Js ❖
It. Kelly Maitland, who died in Melbourne
the other day, was one of the veterans of
the Australian racing world, and was widely
known outside its boundaries. In China
and India he was one of the best horsemen of
his time. As a trainer-owner he won over
400 races on the flat and over the sticks in
India, riding in many of them himself; his
charges included Kingcraft, winner of three
Viceroy’s Cups. In Australia he owned and
raced many good ones, including Greygown,
which was just beaten by Highborn in the
Sydney Cup of 1891. In later years the veteran
was handicapper to the V.A.T.C. and other
clubs; he retired from the handicapping
business in 1915. For years Kelly Maitland
contributed to sporting papers, and when
the century was young he was sporting-
editor of the West Australian. The keen
old man was 92 at the weigh-in.
STILL LIFE.
“Ula”: The younger Adam Skirving,
killed as the result of a steeplechase fall at
Moonee Valley, was, with the exception of
Claude Grice, the most accomplished amateur
horseman in Victoria. As a boy he fre-
quently l-ode the “S. A. Rawdon” horses
trained by his father. He was a dare-devil
steeplechase rider, and had a passion for the
sport in which he was fated to lose his
life. Vic. country districts knew him as
the “Duncan of the amateurs” and a lead-
ing huntsman.
* * * *
Arthur Davis, who died last week from
the effects of a fall in a race at Albion Park,
had been Queensland’s leading rider for
years. Twenty-three when he entered the
game seriously, Davis soon forged to the
front, and in 15 years—he was 38 at the
finish—had ridden in 2617 races in the metro-
politan area alone for 455 wins. He speci-
alised in winning the last race at Ascot,
and had as many followers on: that score as
Jimmy Pike in Sydney. He headed the list
of successful Queensland jockeys on many
occasions, and up to the beginning of July
had ridden 45 winners for the season—lo
more than his nearest rival’s score.
* * * *
“Don Crew”: Money was scarce that day
and the betting as wide as Pitt-street, so
when it came to the Welter Handicap Aaron-
stein found himself in troubled waters.
“What price Sandfly?” asked a punter.
“Twos,” said Aaronstein, “and not much of
it.” then?” the punter said. “Wliat
price Bobstay?” “Twos,” said Aaronstein,
“lie’s a real good ’orse.” “He must be,”
observed the punter, “Well, what arc you
layin’ agin Blue Gum?” “Blue Gum,” said
Isaac wearily, “is two to von also; and if
yer know a better ’orse than them three, I’ll
take your seffen to two.”
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Lavish publicity induced a huge crowd
to part with the price of admission to the
Socks-McAllister mill at Melbourne on Satur-
day night. Socks proved far from being the
wonder the press-agent’s fancy had painted
him; neither was Billy at his best. Maybe
the “£5OO side-wager’’ made them cautious.
After a tame beginning Mac. gained a handy
lead on points per medium of a snappy left
lead and right cross. These rights were
numerous, but they didn’t possess enough
sting to bother the Englishman seriously.
Socks handed out his one thrill in the 12th
round, when he got home on the jaw and
dropped the local lad for Ssec. The gong
saved Mac. from further trouble. He was
never again* in danger, and was rightly
awarded the decision. Each boy weighed
Sst. 41b.
* * *
All who have seen Billy Harms in action
know that the Afrikander is a rare two-
handed fighter, capable of taking, as well
as giving, heavy blows. What sort of a
hitter, then, must be Wesley Ketchell,
of San Francisco, who knocked Billy
out in less than half a round at the Sydney
Stadium? The S’African, who scaled list.
21b. (the Californian came in at list.
511 b.), began in his usual brisk fashion
and apparently with no premonition or fear
of there being anything unusual in store
for him; he landed several rights to head
and body. But, as he danced gaily in to
repeat the treatment, Ketchell met him with
a pile-driving left (he is a left-bander) on
tlu‘ floating rib, and Billy went to the floor.
He was there for nine seconds, nursing the
part with his right glove. On his feet
again. Harms sprang at his man, apparently
full of fight, and landed half a dozen heavy
punches, only to receive another of those
devastating left drives to the same tender
spot. This time lie was on his knees, still
gasping for wind, and holding his glove
over hid right ribs, when the referee reached
.“nine, out!”
Footbrawl
Saturday saw three of the four leading
Vic. League teams come a thud. Colling-
wood’s Magpies were doing well against Gee-
long until Percy Rowe and Ernie Wilson
were carried off, badly damaged; even then
they held their own, and might have won
but for too-hasty kicking in the last quarter.
As it was, they went down by 11 points—
-07 to Geelong’s 78. Melbourne’s goal-slioot-
ing against Essendon was likewise so lament-
able that its friends among the 25,000 spec-
tators were moved to bitter sarcasm. But
Essendon played an exceptionally fast and
systematic game, Stockdale, after a com-
pulsory rest, being a bright star: ’Don, 89
points; Melb., 67. Fitzroy, after many re-
verses, is slowly training its young team in
the way it should go; the side shocked the
Carlton barrackers among the 30,000 there
by leading throughout and holding 4 points
in hand at the finish: ’Roy, 86; Carlton,
82. Carlton has been seducing stars from
elsewhere, notably from South Melbourne;
that means internal dissension and a lack
of co-operation. The. same South, whose
players and committee are at sixes and
sevens, scrambled through an engagement
with Footscray and lost by 2 points—B9 to
91. Hawthorn found St. Kilda too strong,
and could score only 84 points to Saints’
134. North Melbourne, whose committee had
just fired out nine regular players—half the
team —and replaced them with youngsters
from the second 18. put up a decent fight
against Richmond’s Tigers, though beaten by
90 to 53.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : Perth gets, and Adelaide loses,
a good footballer in C. C. Daly, transferred
westward in the course of business. He
comes of a famous family, his father
“Bunny” and his uncle “Boss” Daly having
been even better known in their day. C.C.
had the luck to make a dramatic finish in
S.A., kicking the last goal, just on “time,”
in his last matclp and giving his club,
Norwood, a 3-point win.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: A record in goal-kicking was
put up in the third round of the Vic. Schools’
Association the other day. Malvern C.
of E. Grammar scored 55 goals 40 behinds
against Prahran College. Malvern knew
itself to be the strongest and Prahran to
be the weakest combination in the associa-
tion, and it went all out to make history.
E. Andrews’s boot was responsible for 24
of the goals.
(Continued on page 41.)
OVER THE FENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Harden’s victory over the Indian Army team
in the Dudley Cup disappointed many of the fair
spectators, with whom the soldiers have become very
popular.”
’Twuz out at dear ole Kenso, w’ere I’ve
orfen worked me jokes,
I seen a shiner shiela with a mob o’ poler
blokes.
A nole man tear slops slowly down ’er pure
meriner nose
An’ tumbles with a flop erpon ’er dinkum
silkworm ’ose;
An’ w'ile she dabs the powder on ’er little
crimson beak,
Says she: “Me flamin’ luck is stiff; I feel
I gotter shriek.
Them ’Arden narks is up ter put’; I’m fit
ter do me block
Ter think they give them darlin’ Injer sojer
boys the knock.”
O’ course, that ain’t jist wot she ses—~ but,
cripes, that’s wot she meant.
I’m puttin’ it in dinkum talk, like any
sportin’ gent.
A cove like me wot’s ’ung erbout ole Kenso,
so ter speak,
’E ain’t egsackly w T ot yer’d call a dick-
shunary sheik.
But I can’t ’elp feelin’ sorry fer the bonzer
little bint,
An’ so would any cow ’oose ’eart is sorfter
than a flint;
I ain’t too struck on sojers, but I’m fairly
dinky di
On good ole Aussie’s rep. fer kindly ’orse-
pitality; —
So I’m inclined ter park with ’er, an’ run
down ’Arden’s stock,
’Cos they forgot themselves an’ give the
visitors the knock.
N.S.W.
BILLY THE GOOSE.


Built foi'
Enduring
Sei'vice...
NOT only does Pontiac
immediately arrest
the eye with a beauty
that is new, original,
vivid —not only do its
many engineering ad-
vancements provide a
new perfection of per-
formance, added safety,
and handling ease —but
into the new car there
has been built a new
strength and sturdiness
that ensures long and
lasting service and a
minimised depreciation.
"v\v
“Vy
'V
I p
rs
#ii
* *
it
A#
is 4
M
Jsf
»
\
MM
ikf
# # -
/Aw V*
A>»
11%^
r
to
§
it
i
1\
i
■—l
ft
I
yy
' ' • ' 1
s Vi:S\"-"' v '' v "'' v " x §K
" "■' I
A<<\\vvivvv^
m
;X-:v<
>v\V
SRK
■
I
asss
It
i
IMP' #/
s®
w
f/
i/
IM
x #/
1 0
//
/✓
:\'X
It
it
H
rf
Sfcw'tt s '' .' v-P-
--
5
s'-'; V'"^
py
ss
»w\W\ i v 4 .\V' v
K*
soi-i3s
IF you have not seen the New Series
Pontiac Six, you have not seen the
low-priced Six that actually challenges
the world s finest cars as a style leader.
If you have not studied all the new features
it offers, you have no idea how vastly the
buying power of your pound has increased.
Arrange for an early demonstration.
TOURING MODEL
£260
Sports Roadster, £325.
Two-door Sedan, £345.
Four-door Sedan, £415.
WARRANTED
FOR ONE YEAR
Buy from Your
Local Dealer.
NEW BODIES
NEW MUDGUARDS
NEW FOUR WHEEL
BRAKES
NEW CYLINDER
HEADS
NEW FUEL PUMP
NEW CRANKCASE
VENTILATOR
NEW CARBURETTOR
NEW MANIFOLDS
and MUFFLER
NEW AND GREATER
POWER
NEW CROSS-FLOW
RADIATOR
NEW THERMOSTAT
NEW WATER-PUMP
NEW INSTRUMENT
PANEL
NEW WHEELS
NEW COINCIDENTAL
LOCK
NEW DASH PETROL
GAUGE
NEW STOP LIGHT
NEW CLUTCH
NEW STEERING
GEAR
NEW FRAME
NEW AXLES
df
Sydney Distributors:—
JOHN McGRATH, LTD.,
154 Castlereagh Street.
rzj K.
s;
L 4
WHEEL
BRAKES


sdf
Ihe best place
nn fnu ■ i/m it.
ro
where a hundred delight* await you.
Golf, Tennis, Dancing. Every pas-
time catered for.
Management—G. M. Li.evain Robertson
Inclusive Tariff from £l/1/- DeP
day, and from £6/6/- per week.
Sydney Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street
'Phone : 86491.
fl
D □
«i
&
/&
PECO
l 1 Qm.
Central HbtWatef
stem
In small. homes where hot-water service is required for bath
room, kitchen, sink and for wash troughs, the “Triton”
Modified Centra] Heating System can be economic ally applied
by installing heater in one room and connecting up the
second room by pipe line. This reduces installation cost,
yet affords the same advantages of quick, hygienic, safe
and economical hot-water service as with the Complete
‘Triton” Centra] Hot-water System.
Our two years' guarantee against electrical failure
applies equally to the' Modified System.
Full Particulars and Prices from
Thos, Abbott & Co.,
13a Bar die arc Street, Melbourne. Tel, F 1,01,2:
Or Wynyard and Margaret Lanes , Sydney;
111 Taranaki Street, Wellington , N.Z.
Agencies: A. C. Clarice, 112 Gaicler Place, Adel
w C ir Scarfe and Sandover, Ltd., Perth;
W- 11. Knight and Peter Bros. Pty., Ltd., Hobart
and .Tn^ es Campbell'and Sons, Ltd.,
Creek Street, Brisbane. /
USHERS
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Addiem:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Rugby League matches in Sydney on
Saturday were dull and uneventful, particu-
larly the game at the Cricket Ground. There
Glebe managed to keep one point ahead of
North Sydney, 8 to 7, the missing of an
easy penalty goal just before full time costing
the Northerners the match. South Sydney
returned to form at Pratten Park, beating
Western Suburbs by 34 to 16; and St.
George vanquished Balmain by 21 to 12.
University scored its third win for the season,
beating in-and-out Newtown by 27 to 14.
* * * *
The English League footballers played
their twelfth match of the tour at Too-
woomba, and after a good game, in which
the Queenslanders led 9-3 at half-time, won
by 17 (three tries and four goals) to 12
(two tries and three goals). Toowoomba
defeated the English side of 1924, and had
high hopes of repeating the dose on this
occasion. Steinohrt, its star forward, in-
jured his leg in the game and may not be
available for the Test match on Saturday.
*** * ,
“Discretion”: It is not only the Queens-
land urchin who possesses a sense of savoir
fnire (B. 4/7/’2B) ; the Queensland referee
is also capable of quick thinking, and, like
most of his kind, often finds it a useful
attribute. In a League match in Brisbane
recently the players soon settled down to a
free-for-all go, and the rulings and exhorta-
tions of the whistle-blower were treated with
contumelious language, coupled with threats
of what would happen to him “after.” When
the time came for the second round of the
scrap, the referee, who had been notably
thoughtful at half-time, was missing. A
search failed to reveal any trace of him, and
the game had to finish under the eye of a
volunteer whose reputation for “willingness”
stood high in the locality and brought him
unscathed through the turmoil.
* * * ije
The All Blacks were all out aaain on
Saturday. Their match with the Northern
Provinces (Transvaal and Free State) re-
sulted in a. draw, each side scoring 18,
after the Maorilanders had led 11-5 at
half time. So far, the tourists have won
6, lost 2, and drawn 1, scoring 126 points
to 55.
* * * *
“Gwy”: The 17 points scored by the
Afrikanders against the All Blacks (B.
4/7/’2B) consisted of two dropped field
goals and two penalties from the deadly
boot of Ben Osier, the Transvaal centre
back, and a try near the close. For a
single player to get 14 points against
M.L. may sound a unique feat, but it was
performed also by R. G. Stanley, the ’Varsity
centre three-quarter, for N. S. Wales
against Beilis’s team in Sydney in 1920. A
penalty try, which he converted, and three
penalty goals was Stanley’s contribution.
Referee Flannery gave the wing forward no
quarter that day.
* .-s * *
“Toheroa”: Ilenare’s opinion of wireless
went down with a bump when he came into
Whakatikariku to hear the result of the
Test match at Dui’ban. “How much te
Orra Bracks win, eh?” he inquired anxiously.
■“They lost!” he was assured. “Oh, tat
wrong,” said Henare; “t’ey wiu orright!”
Efforts to convince him of the downfall of
his idols was futile. “Tat wire-ress orright
te singing and te talking,” he complained
as he went off: “no kood te pray foot-
bofrS!”
* * * *
“Old Q”: Jack Wood, who died in Eng-
land last week, was one of three Newcastle
(N.S.W.) brothers who were mighty foot-
ballers in the golden age of the N;S.W.
Rugby Union. Jack —the other two were
Jim and Joe—was a slashing three-quarter,
and figured in the Sydney University teams
of the middle ’eighties, as well as represent-
ing the State against Maoriland in 1884 and
against Queensland in that year and in
1886. The other brothers were forwards.
Both played for. Uni. and N.S.W. against
Queensland in 1891.
* * * *
The Rugby Union tussles saw Y.M.G.A.
with George and Gordon back, win well from
Eastern Suburbs by 18 to 10. East’s pack
was no match for the Y. Emmas. Glebe-
Balmain’s 6-6 draw with University was a
surprise. The Glebe forwards bottled the
game up and kept the University back divi-
sion on the defensive. Northern Suburbs
argued it out with Manly at Chatswood, and
won by 24 to 23, after a fast and spectacular
game. Hammill, who scored two of North’s
five tries, was in great fettle in the three-
quarter line, as also was Lyne; Louden, as
usual, shone in the Manly loose rushes.
Randwick went down to Western Suburbs by
three points, in spite of a desperate effort
in the second half. Scores were then 18 to
nil against ’Wick, but in spite of bad hand-
ling by some of the backs, Randwick tacked
on three tries and three goals and looked
like getting more. S. King and Storey w r ere
the pick of the winners, while Tow'ers and
Palfreyman were conspicuous for Randwick,
which is capable of a lot better football than
was shown on Saturday.
Racquet and Bawl
Some of the Australian tennis players
finished strongly at Wimbledon. Daphne
Akhurst survived to the semi-finals of the
women s singles, to be easily beaten by
Senonta de Alvarez, who in her turn suc-
cumbed to Helen Wills in the final, 6-2,
03. Patterson and Hawkes had a glorious
run in the doubles, defeating Lacoste and
Borotra by 3 sets to 1, and then outing
Tilden and Hunter by 3 sets to 2. In the
final they were beaten by Cochet and Brug-
non who made it 1311. 6 4 6-4. In the
mens singles, Tilden, n+ter boating Borotra,
was downed by Lacoste, who defeated his
team-mate Cochet in the final by 3 sets to 1.
The mixed doubles saw Crawford and Miss
Akhurst reach the final, to be beaten by
Spence and Miss Ryan. On Wimbledon
form, the Gauls are not likely to drop the
Davis . Cup this year, whoever may meet
them in the Challenge round, especially as
they will be playing on their favorite hard
courts. *
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: It is sickening to
read in accounts of the match between Til-
den and Borotra at Wimbl don that there
was “a succession of dreadful line decisions”
and that players threw away noints
several times to counteract these.” In no
other game on earth is a player permitted
to flout the decision of the umpire. Can
one fancy, sny, Maile.v deliberately dronnip ,r
TTobhs in the slips bacons'' Hammer'd
hist b°en given out l.b.w. when he thought
lie was; pot? What would happen if a Rugby
full-back stood on one side and allowed a
JUST HER LUCK.
ASSOCLATE: “So you’re really Scotch ? And 1 was going to ask you to give me a dozen
strokes!”
opponent a try because the latter had been
adjudged offside a few minutes previously?
* =» * #
“Cut Shot’’: There has been a bit of a
barge over the venue of the Davis Cup
semi-final in the European zone. Czecho-
slovakia was keen on having the match
staged in Prague, while the Italians were
willing to accept the original choice of Paris.
The British tennis heads were called in as
arbitrators and have decided on Paris, where
the match is to start on July 20. The win-
ner will meet America, and the stage will
then be set for the challenge round against
France.
* * * jji
“Glenelg”: Adelaide, as becomes a holy
city, has been in a turmoil over the question
of Sunday tennis, and the State L.T.A. is
taking a referendum of its members on tlie
subject. Private courts are freely used on
Sundays, and there seems no reason why
the public ones should not be available to
players. One barracker for the innovation
lias hurled a brick into the enemy camp by
pointing out that the City Council not only
permits golf on Sundays _on the municipal
course, but charges a higher fee for the
privilege than it does on week-days, and
this without any protest from the Sabba-
tarians.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Colonel Damurize”: Just a line to say
that I have packed up all my golf impedi-
menta and booked a passage to Alice Springs.
It is with regret that I feel compelled to take
this course, but the menacing tone of some
of your female correspondents Avhen refer-
ring to my comments on associate members
has made it imperative. With every belief
in the inviolability of press secrets, I feel
that even editors are merely mortal, and the
disclosure of my identity is a matter I do
not care to contemplate in present circum-
stances. My resolve was hastened by the
information that at a fancy-dress dance given
in a N.S.W. golf club a young female atten-
ded attired in plus-fours and with a crimson
proboscis and similar insulting addenda. Asked
whom she r presented she is said to have
replied. “What, you mean; not Whom.
‘Colonel Damurize,’ of course.” There are.
I understand, very few females in Central
' vstralia, and none of them associate mem-
bers.
* * * *
“A.F.Y.” : “Silly lot o’ coots them golfers
is,” said Bullocky Bill. “I was lookin’
for a coupler stray polers up be the station,
an’ spots the manager’s wife playin’ golf
with visitors. I gets awff me ’orse to ’ave
a screw. A coupler balls lobs on the square
where there’s a hole in the middle, an’ up
walks the missus an’ ’er cobbers an’ stan’s
lookin 'at ’em as if they was death-adders.
Phew!’ says the young ’un. ‘Dead stymie,
Isn’t that awful?’ ‘Where?’ says I. ‘I can’t
smell nothin’.’ They stall’s there lookin’ at
me fer a minute, while I’m tryin’ ter make
meself useful an’ find out where the dead
stymie is an’ get it out o’ the way. All of
a sudden they starts laughin’ fit ter bust. I
couldn’t see nothin’ ter laugh at, unless is
was me strides that was a good deal patched
about the seat an’ the knees. Anyway, I
got on me ’orse an’ rode away. I never see
sich silly tabbies in me ngclieral !”
“Mrs. Putts”: At Mildura (Vic.) recently
a pair in the mixed foursomes played off the
handicap allotted them and returned the win-
ning card. Presently they were informed
that they had been re-handicapped, and were
thus deprived of the trophy for first place.
“Colonel Damurize” has his grievances, but
what about this?
“Adelaide”: A gap between professional
and amateur skill in golf seems to be indi-
cated by the “open” .match on Ivooyonga
links (Rufus Stewart’s club), near Adelaide.
The two classes rarely play against each
other in South Aus. Legh Winser, admit-
tedly the best amateur in sight, was tied at
161 by McMahon, pro. of the Marino club,
and both of them were left standing by
Bissett, the Victor Harbor pro., who went
round twice in 152. He is a Scotchman who
came to Australia only two years ago. But
the best round of the day was returned by
Tucker, a local amateur, who surprised him-
self as well as everyone else by following on
a poor 90 with a marvellous 73 —record for
the course.
* * * *
“Percy Piebald”: Tommy Howard, Camp-
bell, Soutar, Eyre, Spence, Chitty, Corry,
Sinclair, Macdonald and other cracks have
gone north for the Queensland champion-
ships beginning to-day. They will have
worthy opponents in local professionals
Spence, Gazzard, Carr and Brown; however,
with the Royal Queensland, Brisbane,
Goodna, Indooroopilly and Sandgate clubs
providing purses for the pros., in addition to
the open championship, ;there should be
plenty to go round. The presence of Whit-
ton, Armstrong, Healy, Brown, Keane,
Pope and Steven from the South will make
the task of qualifying difficult for Queens-
land amateurs. A championship final be-
tween Whitton and local crack Jack Rad-
cliffe would supply the most popular climax.
“Hamilton”: Queensland intends to follow
up the State championship meeting with a
country week, opening on August 4 at Indoo-
roopilly. The country championship will be
played at Eagle Farm on August 8; it will
be limited to members of clubs outside the
10 mile radius of the Greater Brisbane area.
Entries close with the lion. sec. of the
Q.G.A. on August 3. Queensland is now dot-
ted with golf clubs from the N.S.W. border
to the Gulf, and the association is hopeful
that entries will be received from most of
them.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: The Yankee carries his
efficiency into golf. He has long ago aban-
doned the old-fashioned tee of damp sand
kept in a box at each tee, using instead a
little wooden affair. Of these wooden tees it
is estimated that 187,000,000 have been
sold since they were put on the market,
whereas the sandboxes they have supplanted,
substantial affairs with hinged lids, are
estimated to have cost the 5000 golf clubs
of the United States that once maintained
them at least £200,000. Here is a chance
for an enterprising Australian manufacturer,
for the sand tee is a maddening affair on
occasion, and the rubber. contrivance now
used by many is a nuisance, since it is
comparatively expensive and has to be re-
trieved after every drive off.
* * * * ,
“Worm-Cast”: On the Awamoa links the
other day a member of the North Otago
(M.L.) club holed out in one at the short
fifteenth. Nothing very extraordinary, per-
haps ; but read on. It was a high mashie
shot, which pitched in the cup on the full,
and stayed there. Can any Bulletin reader
remember a similar occurrence? The odds
against it must be considerable.
The contests for the Dudley and Garvan
Cups at Kensington racecourse produced
some of the most brilliant polo yet seen in
Sydney. The Dudley trophy, was won for
the first time by Goulburn, which beat
Harden by 4 goals 'to 3, after two extra
chukkas had been played. Harden had the
better of the early part of the match, during
which it scored 3 goals. An accident to
Maple-Brown, the Harden No. 2, changed
the fortunes of the day, and Goulburn was
able to stop Harden’s victorious trot of
three, successive years, the goal coming just
on time. Pitty, at No. I. distinguished
himself for Goulburn. Harden played
better polo earlier in the week against the
British Army team from India, winning by
4 goals to 3. The Garvan Cup went to
Inverell, which downed Coolah Valley after
another tough tussle, -scores after an extra
eliukka being 7-6. The polo pony show proved
that this country is now producing a very
fine type. For a long time Australian ponies
have been in high favor in India and
America, but few outside the game are
aware of the fact. The visiting British
officers from India have been loud in their
praise of their Australian mounts, not only
for their quality but for the excellence of
their training, an all-important item in a
polo pony’s make up.
(Continued on next page.)


ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up—Beautiful
lighting effects —A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Caffi de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS.
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines').
(A Iso under the personal supervision of Romano. )
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
Hiii
ifnriffß imh'timhP
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Cuiwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
WITH A
W. W. GREENER
GUN
"Calrossie” at Monte
Carlo scored eleven con-
secutive kills 36 yards
rise— 19 yards boundary.
Wholesale Representatives'.
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY, LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE, C.L
Car and Cycle
“Formula”: The results of the Royal
Automobile Club’s trial run from Sydney to
Robertson (N.S.W.) were compiled from
four tests —reliability, a flying half-mile, a
hill-climb and a short slow run. In class A,
up to 1500 c.c., S. C. Cox’s 1496-c.c. Bugatti
came first with a total of 269.02 points,
though F. D. Johnson’s 1548-c.c. Morris was
easily the highest point-scorer in the slow-
run test. Class B, from 1551 c.c. to 0000
c.c., was won by F. A. Parle’s 2262 super-
Bugatti with 276.66 points. A. C. Cooper s
2370-c.c. Essex, with 50 points, did the best
slow run. In class C, over 3050 c.c., A. W.
Turner’s 3874 Willys Knight took the honors
with 294.68 points, including the best point
score for the slow-running section of the
test, only dropping six points on the hill-
climb.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: A fine testimonial to British
workmanship is contained in the recent per-
formance by a 3J-h.p. Rudge-Whitworth
motor-cycle, which carried four riders
totalling 41 stone from Bendigo to Mel-
bourne in four hours. The return journey
was tackled in the same circumstances on
the following day; and this time the 100-
mile run was covered in 3hrs. 37 min. No
adjustment was made to tyres or machine
during the journey. Not the least interest-
ing part of the trip was the total fuel and
oil costs —3s.
* * * *
“Bang”: We’ve been having a slow time
in Brisbane motor-cycling lately, with most
of the cracks in Britain or on the way.
It looks as if the thrills of the past have
gone, too, for the crowd that runs the Speed-
way has had it closed up for reconditioning
and repairs, and by all accounts has made it
so safe that the ambulance will have to go
out of business. The biggest change has
been the shifting of the electric-light posts
from the inside of the track. In the past,
the endeavors of an occasional cyclist to
snap one of these in half with his head sup-
plied star turns, the prospect of which drew
many a good half-dollar, especially from the
women, who like a lot of bloodshed in their
sport The final move, I expect, will be to
line the inside of the rails at the turns
with rubber billiard cushions. After that
we might as well stay home and pitch with
the missus or the old pot, as the case may
be.
* . * * *
“Pierre Ze Pedaller”: Some idea of the
handicap the Australasian cyclists are carry-
ing in the Tour de France, road-race now
nearing its close may be gained from a re-
view of the conditions as they are to-day.
The event dates back to 1903, and it rapidly
assumed importance in the eyes of the cycle
trade. This has led the principal Conti-
nental cycle-makers to establish regular rac-
ing stables, for which they retain the best
riders at high fees, with bonuses for special
performances. This, again, has given rise
to the formation of permanent teams of lngh-
class riders engaged for years ahead. From
each stable the 10 most likely riders are
selected annually for the Tour to represent
the firm which maintains it. Every rider selec-
ted must be of sufficient standard, not only to
hang on to the pace set but to take his
place as pacer in his turn. Anyone not up
to this standard is only a nuisance to the
team. The small size of the Australian
team, and the varying quality of the riders
—the Maorilander, Watson, seems the only
one capable of giving the flying Opperman
any support—put them hopelessly out of
court under the above conditions. Opperman
has already done so well that it is no sur-
prise to hear that a French firm has offered
him a contract to remain in France and
ride for the stable.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Federal Cycling Council,
which controls Australian professional
cycling, is getting the wind up over the
visit of promoter Campbell, of the Melbourne
Motordrome, to France. There is reason to
think that the journey may result in his per-
suading the International Union to vest the
control of professional cycling in himself, or
in Some body controlled by him. A parallel
lias already happened in America, where the
nromoters, headed by Chapman, of the New r
York Velodrome, have assumed complete
control of the game, having shouldered out
the National Cyclists’ Association. It hardly
seems likely that the Australian State
Leagues will consent to surrender their
status to private promoters, but il these are
backed by the International Union and the
American eombinp it will be difficult to fend
them off.
Miscellaneous
“Minto”: They were broke at Bondi
beach and were playing poker for grains of
sand, Sam had a fine ace-full, and it was
up to Bluey to bet. “Oh, I’ll bet a hun-
dred,” said Bluey Sam grabbed a handful
of sand and placed it down in. front of him.
“Make it a thousand.” he said. “It looks
as if you had ’em,” Bluey mused. “I’ve got
’em all right.” replied Sam. “She’s up a
million,” Bluey said. ‘‘Make it a billion,
Sam retorted. *‘A trillion,” Bluey interposed,
and Sam hit back with a quadrillion.
Then Bluey threw in his hand. “I d like
to see you, Sam,” he said, “for I’ve got yon
beat a mile. But it can’t be done. That’s
the worst of havin’ a crook education.’
* * * *
“Bud-G”: Two-up and hazards are losing
their hold on the dead-game sports of North
Queensland. Troy is now all the rage. It
it played with two dice; the banker takes
the box and his opponent sets the castor
for the required amount. Two sixes, a five-
six, two fives, and two threes win for the
banker, otherwise known as the “head’ or
“in” thrower. He loses if he throws two
ones, a one-two, two twos or two fours;
his opponent, the “boxer,” then becomes the
banker, and the next in line to the original
banker becomes the “boxer,” and so on.
Combinations other than those mentioned do
not count. Troy is said to be an old Chinese
game.
* * =1! *
“Mana-Buleh”: As “Nakhoda” (B.
27/6/’2B) says, the Malays are reckless
gamblers, but in some of their gambles other
people have to take most of the risk. While
in Selangor my good friend Hadji Ahmat
and I were passing the evening in one of the
Chinese gambling houses, patronised by
Malays of all classes. The sight of the play
and of the fierce passions it aroused awakened
memories in Hadji Ahmat, and though he
refrained from joining in the sport it was
evident that the turban which old age and
his many iniquities had driven him to Mecca
to seek was irksome, since it forbade public
indulgence in such joys. “Ah, Tuan,” he
said, “we had some groat gambling games
before the white men came, ‘Main China’ —
ah, that was the game! Each man would
wager on the number of coins which a
passing Chinaman carried in his pouch.
When, the bets had been made we would kill
the Chinaman and count the coin 3.”
“This might have been done without killing
the Chinaman,” I pointed out. “True,”
rejoined Hadji Ahmat, wistfully, “but it was
a more certain way. Also it increased the
pleasure.”
* * * *
“M.L.”: A Bulletin reference to Miles,
the Queensland ped., striking back-sinew
trouble reminds me of two sprinters in my
stable who developed instep strain. I gave
them a three-months’ rest, and then started
them in tight bandages. The trouble soon
showed itself again; in fact, they never did
any good afterwards. A long spell is the only
remedy in these cases.
* * * *
“Ped”: The Canadians, who failed to get
away with a single track event at the last
Olympiad, promise to do better this time. At
the Olympic trials, Percy Williams, of Van-
couver, covered 100 metres in 10 3-ssec.,
thus equalling the best Olympic time. An-
other good flutter was 1500 metres in 4min.
by Jack Walters, of Hamilton, though this
is 6 2-ssec. worse than Nurmi’s run for the
same distance at Paris in 1924, and 9sec.
H. WATSON, the Maoriland representative
in the Australasian cycling team in the
Tour de France.
behind Dr. Peltzer’s world’s record. Aus-
tralian times for the long distance don’t
come within coo-ee of any of these figures.
*.* * *
“Te Kooti”: Maorilamler S. A. Lay has
put up the best performance to date among
the Australian and Maoriland candidates
for Olympic honors by throwing the javelin
200 ft. l£in. at Stamford Bridge sports. This
was good enough to win easily from the
English representative, Weightman-Smith,
who covered 178 ft. 4in. Lay has done a lot
butter than this: his last throw before leav-
ing Maoriland was 216 ft. 34m., or s|in.
better than the Olympic record, which has
stood since 1920. _ *
* * * *
“ ’Gabba”: The Queensland Cricket Asso-
ciation has entered into an unusual under-
taking with the Greater Brisbane Council.
It is to be given the tenancy of five turf
wicket grounds in the outskirts of the city
proper for a term of 20 years, on a guaran-
tee to convert these into first-class grounds
for the use of the district clubs. The asso-
CLARK McCON ACHY, the Maoriland
champion, who made a world’s record
in Melbourne by scoring 687 at his first
visit to the table in his return match
against Walter Lindrum. Another
world’s record at the same session was
Lindrum’s unfinished break of 1258.
ciation is to spend £lO,OOO in bringing the
grounds up to date in all respects, _ supply-
ing the necessary plant. The intention is to
take one ground in hand at a time and com-
plete it before going on to another. The
Q.C.A. tenure will be for the cricket sea-
son only, so the Council should gather in
a bit extra in the winter months from foot-
ball. Nominal rentals are to be charged.
The scheme should add considerably to Bris-
bane’s list of good cricket grounds, for though
some of those named have been in existence
for many years, they have remained in a
very primitive condition, and outside the
Exhibition Ground and’ the Brisbane Cricket
Ground none of the others are anything to
make a song about.
* * * *
“Full Choke” : Last week saw Melbourne
plunge into an orgy of cold-blooded, butchery
camouflaged under the name of pigeon-shoot-
ing. Eight thousand unfortunate birds had
been collected for the world's bird-slaying
championship and other events of the kind,
and this was gloatingly chronicled to-
gether with the fact that there is £BOOO for
distribution among the 200 professional
gun-wielders competing. In many parts of
the world live pigeon-shooting has been
banned by law. Westralia, alone among the
States of the Commonwealth, has had the
decency to follow this example. The game
is not the slightest use as a training for
game-shooting, since the professional trap-
man is a trick shot, firing at known dis-
tances, and is usually at sea when up against
such flying game as wild ducks in the open.
As for the betting aspect of pigeon-shooting,
the ponies are an open spin and the tin-hare
a perfect lady by comparison, neither of
them affording anything like the opportuni-
ties for working ramps as betting “on the
bird” or “the barrel.” It is high time that
pigeon-murdering from traps joined cock- and
dog-fighting on the index expurgatorius of
undesirable “sports.”
* * * *
“Slide”: The inter-State eight-oar race for
the King’s Cup will be held next year in
Westralia. which has won the trophy for the
past two years in succession. The race is to
be rowed in May next and will be a feature
of the Westrnlian centenary celebrations.
Both the Centenary Committee and the W.A.
Rowing Association are anxious to complete
the programme by having the Universities’
race for the Oxford and Cambridge Cup also
held on the Swan River next yeai, the infant
Westralian University being the holder of the
trophy. Normally, the race would be held in
Melbourne. Westralia’s turn coming in 1030.
There seems no reason why the request
should not be complied with.’ No saerificis
will be entailed on the other States, and con-
sent would be in the truest spirit of that
sportsmanship which has always been
acclaimed tin very breath of University ath-
letics.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Let Go”: The Saint Joseph, a French-
owned tramp from Noumea, has loaded a
full cargo of hunkers and screened coal from
the Bowen (N.Q.) Consolidated Mines, Ltd.,
in well under 30 hours. It is Bowen’s first
attempt to break into the overseas market,
and the outlook for a constant trade with
New Caledonia is bright.
* * * *
“R. 8.”: Robert Prenzel (B. 27/6/*2B)
was a pupil of Bauer, a graduate of the
Munich School of Art. Another woodcarver
who learnt from the same master is the
venerable Rev. A. R. Martin, living in retire-
ment on Norfolk Island. The old padre’s
beautiful work is but scantly known, but any
visitor to Norfolk who has been lucky enough
to see the inside of the workshop is aware
that it contains settees, chairs and caskets
carved as richly as anything seen in a re-
cent show of French antiques.
* * * *
“S.R.”: It’s all very well for “Bill Ding”
(B. 6/6/’2B) to complain about the imports
of softwoods, but what are we to do with-
out them? It will be time enough to talk of
putting Oregon out of use when our forests
of Pinus insignis are sufficiently developed
to produce milling logs. Australia sense-
lessly wasted its matchless cedar forests,
and recklessly destroyed thousands and
thousands of acres of pine. Now it is pay-
ing the penalty.
# * * *
“Tops”: The wool clip for the coming
year is expected to be 2,462,000 bales, an
increase of 2$ p.c. on the receipts to May
31 this season. The detailed estimates are:
N.S.W:, 1,040,000 bales (2 p.c. decrease) ;
Victoria, 627,000 bales (9 p.c. increase) ;
South Aus., 220,000 bales (11 p.c. de-
crease) ; Westralia, 175,000 bales (13 p.c.
increase) ; Queensland, 360,000 bales (11
p.c. increase) ; Tasmania, 40,000 bales (no
change).
* * * *
“Gola”: Hans Schnurpfeil, who went to
Maoriland to set up a glass works, has com-
pleted part of his job in Ashburton, and
returned to his fatherland to collect skilled
workmen. Three furnaces, for sheet-glass,
hollow-ware and crystal respectively, with
annealing ovens, are completed, and are
being allowed to dry out preparatory to
being heated for use about September next.
Schnurpfeil will return with his experts to
start glass-blowing in October. His men
are all piece-workers. The silica sand of
the district is considered to be unexcelled.
* * *
“Let Go”: North Queensland timber
men are trying the Yankee market with a
consignment of maple; the Canadian Pros-
pector has loaded 1000 tons of maple logs
at Cairns, Australia, of course, imports
stacks of American maple, and I shall not
be surprised if we buy some of our own
timber from an energetic Yankee salsman.
* * * *
“Te Babarantiko”: I’d like to tell “AdeL."
(B. 27/6/’2B) that people in the Gulf coun-
try prefer canned fish and shell fish, even
when the live varieties are easily obtain-
able in their waters, because tinned stun
is tastier than fresh. For the same reason
the brown folk of the mid-Pacific atolls,
along whose coasts fish, crayfish and shell
fish abound, prefer tinned salmoin to then-
own juicy cooked fish. Smoked Norwegian
herrings in oil and sardines they lap up
by the tinful when then can afford it. Fisli
should, of course, be canned in Australia
and sold in the large home market. But.
wdiatever the reason, fish _ canneries persis-
tently pine aw T ay and die in this country.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The most important thing tin
indefatigable Wing-Commander \\ acketf
brought back from his circumnavigation o.
the continent is the knowledge that Aus
tralian aircraft construction has to take
into consideration the fact that half tin-
country lies in the tropics. His wonder-
ful home-made Widgeon 11. failed to rise
from the water at Darwdn on his intended
flight to Singapore, not from any defect m
the machine, but because the tropical an
has less carrying capacity than the tem-
perate. The builder-flier is going to alter
his craft to suit the new hypothesis that
in warm, moist atmospheres a machine
needs lh.p. to every 141 b. of load.
* * * *
“Clancy”: Droving by rail seems to be
growing in popularity in Queensland. -Lm
latest big transfer of cattle m this way
was from Mungana, north of Clullagoe,
Goomeri, in Southern Queensland, a dis-
tance of 1100 miles. The passengers were
500 stores, and though they were only once
out of the train on the long trip, they arrive .
in first-class nick and without loss. tin
the hoof the journey, which took less than
a week on the rail, would have run into
close on four months under favorable con-
ditions, and '.he absence of loss would have
been something for the drover to blow about
for the rest of his days.


Even a short ride
will convince you
that the
perfected
is “the most valuable car ever
offered for so little money”
0
There is an element of pleased
surprise in driving the WHIP-
PET for the first time that can-
not be fully expressed in words.
There has never been another
light car of its class that has given
the same feelipg of fine car thrill.
And now you can buy it at an
unbelievably low price its
quality unchanged, its equip-
ment improved, its performance
proven by more than 200,000
owners in millions of miles of
driving.
Even a short ride in a WHIP-
PET will demonstrate the car’s
remarkable qualities flashing
acceleration, great power on
hills or heavy roads, high speed
instantly and for a long distance,
with a sense of complete safety
inspired by its road-hugging
low-centre of gravity, and its
large, mechanical four-wheel
brakes. It offers easy riding,
convenient handling, easy park-
ing, unusual beauty of line and
colours—and above all—unpre-
cedented economy.
There are six handsome body
styles. Choose one of those now
on display in our showrooms
and let a trial drive convince
you of the superlative quality
and performance of this Over-
land Whippet.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED, 148 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY., LIMITED, 117-21 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LIMITED, Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, Franklin Street, ADELAIDE.
ADAMS’ MOTORS, LIMITED, 442 Murray Street, PERTH.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LIMITED, 53-56 Bathurst Street, HOBART.
WILLYS - OVERLAND FINE MOTOR
CARS


Under
Royal
Warrant
sd
ToH.M.
Kin 6
GeorgeV
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
Charleslleidsieck
mmiis
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
<2se
swiaa
>p3TSpraiI S3 PPtn
3MOVdWVH3
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
To
Mark Linejf
CASH’S NAMES are destinccive,
(yet neat fadeless and durable*
Actual Sue
Style No. 6
S33KUiami.
Prices
; 1 2 do*. 7/6, 6 do*. 5/*, 3 do*. 3/6
SOLD BV LEADINC DRAPERS..
Write for Name Style Circular to
J. & J. CASH Pty.Ltd.
35 Cubitt St. . Richmond. Melbourne
CASHS NAMES
(ksns)
WASHING
RIBBONS
AS NEW
AFTER
REPEATED
WASHING'
SOLD BY
LEADING
DRAPERS
Thp een/ne of Queens /onc/s
Soc/o/ Life.
motel
«= BRISBANE
f
Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
auaeneu. Mot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Teleprams and Cables: Lennon’s , Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780— 10 Liner
Hotel
0
'
mm
/
■
Grosvenor’s unex
celled service,
modern equipment,
and delightful
cuisine cost you
less —and contri-
bute to a perfect
holiday. Tariff
from £3/10/-
HjROSVENOR
Finest Unlicensed ta
Opp. Railway 5m North Terrace. JKSwift Manjj —
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
LEATHPRETTE
GLOVES
While yet the sales fill the big show-
rooms with woollies and tog-coats and soit-
as-silk camel’s hair jumpers at such fright-
fully reduced prices that you are filled witn
a frenzy to buy dozens of everything, you
wander into the inner shrines of the temple
of fashion and, if you are privileged, you
are shown the new spring and summei
dresses. Colors for the sunny days are to
be vivid. Reds and yellows predominate.
Greens in the deeper tones are scarcely seen
in these before-the-season models. rsa\.
blue too, is once more considered smart-
so, of course, is black. Those gay-flowered
chiffons, all ruffles and frills, occur again
and again in evening frocks that are topped
with straight little bodices and cascade and
billow ankle wards. One black tulle frock, its
deep flounces stitched with horse-hair to
make them stand out and its big bustle-bow
stiffened in like manner, is a thing of beauty.
Day dresses are, if anything, shorter.
These are made three-piece, with long straight
coats, with short hip coats or with the
new cape. In one of these three-piece sums
the frock is of a parchment-ground maro-
cain bespattered with flower-heads of deep
blue and green and pink-tipped daisies 1 lie
coat that goes with this is a deeper tone,
almost brown, and lined throughout with the
material of the frock. Pleats are m every
second skirt. The waist line is back to
where sculptors and artists place it. There s
a new green the shade of absinthe when
water is added; and the blonde is catered
for by some exquisite variations of blue.
Of these the ciel is the one to insist on it
your top-knot is gold. The new cape is
really a deep Puritan collar, but it has a
pleated edge and is made m seductive
materials. Gold and silver threads are
woven into patterned edges in some of the
most expensive coats and skirts.
There’s a rhythm and movement and a
suggestion of blowing in the breeze about
those new clothes that makes you think that
at garden parties this summer the guests
will indeed look, as Omar writes, star-
scattered on the grass.”
Already the woman who pays big money
for her clothes has bought her hats tor
spring and summer. Some of these advance
models cost twenty and a few even thirty
guineas, and hardly any are under ten.
The straws are of the finest, Baku and
Sissol prevailing; and tlireadwork is a
feature. The strands of straw are drawn to
a pattern already impressed on the crown or
brim; the designs vary from a hue
stitched hem 01 , a plain Baku to beautiful
and intricate patterns of point lace One
straw, shaded and glistening like pale-gold
sand, wore one ot these point-luce designs
around its crown with a careless point
drooping into the brim. This was wide as
to side and narrow front and back, tne
newest way. ■
The finest bleached linen is another
material moulded into headwear. One fas-
cinating hat is a very simple droop of this
bleached linen in a mastic tone, its crown
scattered with sappliire-bluc comets. This
is every bit hand-worked, as is a tiny straw
like a golden plum whose umderbrim is
pin-tucked, the tucks, let out about half an
inch from the edge of the brim, giving a
serruted appeurunce. Bluck mohair with a
black satin flower and leaf flat on the side
crown make another beauty. Leghorns are
back into favor, but not as the friend of
our childhood. Its sophisticated simplicity
places it high above the heads of artless
little girls (of six or twenty-six) going to
Sunday-school.
A good job the fashion of shaking hands
with the hostess on coming and going has
dropped out. For multiply hostess by 76
and the handshaking would have gone on like
a solemn ritual the whole two hours of the
Polo-tea dances last week. These dances
were held in the rooms of the official stand
at Randwick, which the A.J.C. had lent;
and at the first of them the vice-regal
grass-widower Stonehaven was the guest of
honor To greet him the whole polo field and
more than half the lookers-on arrived in
the stilly cold of a winter’s dusk. ' Hun-
dreds of motor-cars disgorged thin-frocked,
much-furred womanhood and men in polo
kit their top boots and white riding breeches
bringing an atmosphere half-Kiplingesque,
half-Cynthia Stoekleyish. Bunting in the
colors'of the different teams and gay Chinese
lanterns cheered the cavernous entrance to
the stand; the big tea-room was used for
dancing, and the tea tables were set in the
rooms leading off. Each table _ wore a gay
cloth —here the deep blue of the Army
India team, there the mauve and straw ot
Sydney or the scarlet-and-blue check ot
Goulburn. No team was overlooked.
At the G.-G.’s table masses of wattle and
violets wafted their scent to the disdainful
nostrils of tall polo dolls. Here Mrs. Jimmy
Ashton and Mrs. Colin Stephen presided, and
among those about it was Lady Mary bier-
bert, in sky-line blues and soft grey furs.
Another good-looker was Mrs. Tony Hoi
dern in Connemara reds and black. Maine
do Chair’s overcoat was of the reviving
tweed worn over a jersey suit m dull reds.
Helen and Philippa Stephen were two young
things who attracted the gaze. Dame Eadith
Walker, pretty Mrs. Fielding Jones the
MacCormick lady and the TJrquharts, Kobect-
sons and Winter Irvings were others m the
jazz of color that changed every moment on
the surface of the big floors.
Many of the frocks worn at the Horderns
dance on Wednesday night took the air
again at Government House on h riday when
the State Exes, gave a ball in honor of the
polo players. Country people who haven t
yet had a chance to see “Chang were
pleased to find that the first part of the even-
ino, was given to the story of that mighty
hunter; and a rehearsal of the Uni. pageant
was rushed across the sheet.
Elaine do Chair might have stepped out
of a miniature in her old rose velvets with
touches of gold lace The. Governor-
General came in at ten. The Premier bavins
had bustled in half an hour earlier and
sought sanctuary in the lounge. Daughter
Shirley had arrived earlier looking like a
white swansdown powder-puff. _The Army-
in-India men came in mess dress. the
dragon and the stork and the ins in. white
and silver disported on Lady de Chair s
green shawl. Her dress was of black and
Mr. Mnnteith THE BULLETIN photographer, looked in the other morning while W. E.
Fitz Henry was entering up the arrivals by mail on the morning the Prize
Novel Competition closed, There had been vague expectations that 300
entries might be received; this last mail alone brought nearly that many.
You will be interested in this little picture of Mr. Fitz Henry too. A good
many years ago, as a very small boy, he entered The Bulletins service as the
Editor’s messenger. Then, as one of the Editor’s secretaries, lie was the inter-
mediary between him and the paper’s army of contributors—and that gave Fitz
Henry the idea of “The Australian and New Zealand Writers and Artists Year
Book” of which he and his friend Ringstad are the joint editors When the
Story Competition was launched he was appointed secretary to the Board of
Judges and the orderly zeal with which the job has been done is proving a
great help to those hard-worked gentlemen.
silver and ended in a narrow train. With
this she served enough pearls to make a
banquet. General Harry Chauvel was an
liTiotcnirlino' figure: two others were the
Adrian Knoxes, she in sapphire blue chiffons
And one of the night’s outstanding be
was Mrs. J. Joseland, froelced and coated m
The grounds were steeped in moouligjit
„nd the orange glow of lanterns; but the
terrace arranged for sitting out was mostly
occupied by a blade-like wester y.
The Wentworth was packed last -week
when the ermine and diamonds of America s
womanhood were flashed to the glory of
tlicir husbands, even as the Stars and
Stripes streamed out to the glory of their
native land. Consul Lawton, as befitted
hfc official position,, stuck to med water
during the toast-givmg; but most of his
compatriots wanted to honor their memories
in something with more kick m it and did.
Mrs. Lawton, in blue and silver and wearing
her Australian opals, sat near her lord at the
Tohn W Hickses’ table. John W. ls
neTfee! Xo|
Sydney the previous Saturday fiom b? 1 * 1 ?
2HS9
married hei. r atm rin m former
and his bride—she tlic dang-htciofatormer
U.S. Senator—hosted a party of sth ™
the new member of the family. Tall baskets-
of violets, roses and sweet-peas were broadea t
over the four tables-for-twelve winch held
tlds group On the bride’s table there was
a swing ft sweet-peas and violets on wl
swayed a doll in a ruffle of )n k 0 0 ,
the frills spattered with daphne and oran
blossom, and around the swing were scrolled
the opening lines of thc Swin o . &
“Vcronique.” Veronique is the pietty name
of Mrs. Mel. , f , ■
Eleven hundred were seated and ted in
the Ambassadors on the night of the a
Chnkka dance. And they dll got on to the
flnnr niid shuffled. Th.o undul&tint, m< *> >
seen from above, was like a sluggish wave
over the Sargasso Sea. As a weight-reducer
the night’s dancing was a blow-out, but as a
money-raiser for tlic Country W omen s Asso-
ciation it was a complete set of balloon
tyres At one o’clock in the morning the
committee officially eng.aged the Ambassa-
dors for the same date in 1929, and it tnat
doesn’t read like success, what does.
To begin with, all the polo teams ha
tables; and on these the übiquitous polo-
sticks surmounted by the team s colors n
gaily bobbing balloons formed the decora-
tions (loulburn table, its paper cloth m
red and blue check, had rather the look of
a kindergarten party. The Army-in-India
players were here, and Morna MacCornucl,
very sonsy in white; Rosemary Osborne,
like a delicious apple on a blue and silver
plate; and quiet-eyed Audrey Hordern were
among their partners. Hard-riding Harden
of the dashing red and white pennant were
clieered early in the proceedings, but the
singing of the polo songs fell as flat as the
voices that tried to shout them. We are
too self-conscious for public demonstrations.
Near the entrance to the ballroom the
Otway Falkiners had their possy. It was a
long table, and here beside the striking
hostess, in white and silver, was Joan Nor-
ton, in a white satin frock, moulded and
swathed to her erect little figiire. Mrs. Oliver
Osborne was there in midnight blue, her
white hair very attractive with her clear
coloring; Mrs. Steenie Osborne, Mrs. Val
Osborne and various young ones of the clan
helped to make the party. Theo Marks was
among the slow-motion dancers. Mrs. Ken
Austin, who entertained the Victorian team,
wore sky-blue chiffons. The Governor-Gen-
eral as well as the State Exes, flung him-
self into the mfd#e; and Lady de Chair’s
green-and-gold raiment gave as good as it
got in the matter of wear and tear. Elaine,
in green chiffons, sat at the Scone table with
the Mackays, and here was a fair Rutherford
girl from Maoriland.
“Aida,” with its blaze of color, its fan-
fare of trumpets and its stirring scenes, made
a fitting climax to the week’s gaieties. Any-
thing less brilliant would have seemed
drab to an audience already effervescing
from a week of quick motion, changeful
flocking, engagements, champagne, new
scandals, gin slings, gallant ponies, hard
riders. Cloaks just as deep a Nile-green
as the robe Amneris dons to greet the con-
quering Ehadames flashed in the circle.
Bluely-green as the peacock feather in her
hair shone a velvet dress in the stalls. This
dress was one of the night’s beauties, with
its shoulder drape of peach chiffon, that fell
like a half-forgotten scarf to the hem of the
dress. Moth brown as the tight swathe
through which the heavenliness of Aida was
spotted by the young Field-MarShal
Ehadames were a few filmy dresses of lace.
The second act opens on a scene not unlike
the top of Macquarie-street in the opening
between the Mitchell Library and the
Domain when that street and Hunter-street
wear triumphal arches for a visiting royalty.
The sky is so blue it holds the suggestion of
violets. There are palms seen through the
arches; citizens, soldiers (in reds, browns,
greens), priests in white (w T ho appear to
have been the Scotland Yard of the period),
dancing-girls with veils in the limey-green
dye of the Pharaohs, and, in an Italian-
pink, a solo dancer in reds and silvers,
heralds in blue and silver, the blue bordered
here and there with green; Amneris in
flashing green, her green and gold train open-
ing with a regal gesture to show a Tyrian
red lining, and the ostrich plume in her
hair tinging from emerald to turquoise-green.
Near by Aida stands in her dun-brown
sausage-skin, still the heavenly one to her
lover’s eyes.
In a box to the right of the stage sat
Toti dal Monte, snuggled in white furs and
satin, diamonds glittering in her hair and
rhinestones on her old-rose satin frock, "'tli
her sat the Italian Consular Grossardis.
There was a smell of new varnish and paint
everywhere, and the white and gold decora-
tions were fresh for the occasion. the
Governor-General and the btate Exes, sat
up in the circle, their hit of the balcony
a flowering oasis draped with flags. Lady
de Chair wore velvet of the shade of a golden
plum, and a wrap of fuchsia-toned velvet.
But there was rather an absence of youth.
It preferred the Flying Doctor Ball at the
Wentworth.
This Flying Doctor Ball was the last-
minute success of a crowded week it
filled the Wentworth on Saturday night wit!
the skirl of pipes, the tang of heather and
tartan caps, with polo players and pretty
girls. It was to strengthen the Australian
Inland Mission’s wings that will carry me 1-
cal aid to Australia’s outposts. Pearl Appl-
ton in apple-blossom pinks and a shining
5 engagement-rills. w» one of
hostesses. Her young man, Frank Edvnids.
of Goulburn, was in this cheery group, as wer.
Elaine de Chair and Betty Rutherford.
Morna MacCormick and Rosemary Osborne
were girl hostesses.
The Sam Horderns gave their.fjf.'l!
honor of the Polo teams, not in their own
beautiful home, but out at the 1 L
Golf Club, and despite the garden poverty o
July they managed to carry out the entire
scheme of decoration m flowers Searls, who
were resposible, garnered flowers and foliage
from four different States, and
was a blaze of color. All the bu b
that herald spring in the cold countries but
are the blooms of winter in our smiling 11
mate shook but their frills from squat bowl
SIS basket DaffoiiK jobQ»;ly»i
tulips, combined wRh bnlhant s
and huge bunches of goiden oak from
don and red and purple berne o n"the
in the ballroom, where floral Pkfl ueß
walls struck a new note. In the reception
rooms and on the balcony cond-red rn and
from Tasmania, epacris fro “ their
croton leaves from Queensland glowed tnei
''%hp V vice-regals, as usual, patronisd
the Under grads’ party, and
one of her nicest frocks for th
was glittering lame, in which lilac and suve.
were woven, and had a ( ljaPC . jj erne
President F. W. Bayldon and Dons m
,^2dS d ld^SiS C^e e
emerged victorious above Parma
SLrvSf Treats «£«,«*, <»
coSMulate^ GC an ai A S G- Smith and A- A.
Shorter G. FI. Robin and G. A. uavey.
East. week’s cables toMJhe m^J agem: , nt .
S 4 wht" £ daughter of
gate.


FULLY FA#HIONED
%
v
s'
..
Tapering Heel
The Fully*Fashioned,
Ta Heel by
<Preifi&e shows a defi-
nite advafiee in taper
heel desi&n. It &ives
an appearance of slen-
derness arid distinction
to this i&Gc]dii& of fin-
est sip:lj?6m.t : o|j to toe.
Pa|JPs heel
Here is a new con-
tour in heek created
hy> {heir-
Fully Hose,
prefer a square Keel.
Giving : . *i& der-
and d&mtMek stasoeia ted
with the.tap#-;heel, yet
aristocratic and 1 us-
iv e ••ih:.:,;i.tsi; : .d:c si& n.
.Mi;


g
//1
on
3
il
m-
I
sgy
H
0
m
m
i»ii> or>
lif' 11
m
sdf
JMustralia
(Capital Paid-up, £422,100.)
The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
Every detail of service and convenience is antici-
pated in this great hotel with the world-famous
name.
A beautifully-illustrated folder will enable you to
anticipate something of its quality; write for one
if you are thinking of coming to Sydney.
“After all, there’s only ONE ‘Australia”
Telegraphic, Wireless and Cable Address: “Austraotel, Sydney
Melbourne
Chatter
The Grand National meeting opened at
Flemington on Saturday in beautiful
weather, and there were no disasters save
those of the sort that afflict the unlucky
punter. It was nearly warm enough to shed
wraps, and the shingled sex, almost to a
woman, was well turned-out in tailored suits
of good lines. Naturally she wire possessed
a valuable fur coat couldn’t resist the oppor-
tunity of wearing it, and some very pretty
fur wraps were on view. The lawn was soft
after the rain of the previous day. High
heels sank in the turf, and the dampness
penetrated pump soles. Lady Somers, who
was there with the Governor, was one of
the wise folk who wore over-shoes, matching
her buckled footwear. She covered her fawn
frock with a tweed coat In brown and buff
tones, completing a cosy-looking effect with
a rust-hued felt hat. Air-Marshal Salmond
was in the v.-r. party. Mrs. Clive Leonard,
in a very smart mole fur coat, was accom-
panied by a recent arrival, Mrs. Richard
Horsfall, in black astrachan coat and black
tuscan hat. Mrs. Keppel Palmer was with
her sister Mrs. Denham, just back from
England, who was in a suit of wine color.
Mrs. Eric Harrison arrested the eye with
her ensemble costume of Joffre-blue that was
brightened with light gold braid. Mrs.
Charles Armytage, the Simon Staughtons,
Alec Russells and J. Osborne Fairbairns
were promenaders on the lawn ; also Mr. and
Mrs. George Russell, she wearing a powder-
blue sports suit with a black velvet hat;
Mrs. Charles Tait, the Alan Russells, Frank
Doyles, Mrs. Oscar Lempriere and Oom-
riiander and Mrs. Ireland. Mnratti, winner
of the Winter Handicap, was the horse Ben
Chaffey gave to be raffled for St. Vincent s
Hospital a couple of years ago.
The opening of Parliament took place
in the presence of an overcrowded gallery.
The Governor’s speech, which opened with
a panegyric about the bounteous rains and
good crops, ended dismally with references to
unemployment. As usual, the short cere-
mony attracted womenfolk in scores, but
from a dress point of view it was rather a
dull affair. Lady Somers made a bright spot
with a brick-red ensemble suit topped by a
felt hat of wine tone, and the Peacock lady,
who was warmly congratulated on her hus-
band’s appointment to the Speakership, had
a crimson feather mount over an all black
turnout. Mayor Morell xvas accompanied by
the Mayoress, smart in nigger brown coat
with 'fitch fur collar, and felt hat. Alan
Currie, making his first bow, Avas accom-
panied by Mrs. Currie, who made a smart
entrance in fawn jersey silk with furs, and a
small silk hat with a dash of brown.
After the opening there was a crush, in the
halls and corridors as pink-, blue-, yellow-
and white-ticket, holders were herded into
the Queen’s Hall, where cakes and tea were
spread. Good Queen Vic., stately in marble,
looked down rather contemptuously upon
the multitude elbowing its way to the foo<j
and dangerously balancing cups and saucers.
Governor and Lady Somers partook of re-
freshment with the croAyd, but they secured
a sheltered corner. Prince Takamatsu and
Vice-Admiral Kobayashi were on the floor of
the House during the opening.
A dozen ’planes escorted the Adelaide ex-
press that brought Air-Marshal Sir John
Salmond to the city, the big chief of the
R.A.F. having stepped off the Ormonde at
Perth. He found a cable waiting for him
announcing the arrival of another baby
daughter. At the central railway station
Minister for Defence Glasgow, with a bevy
of Air Force officers, including the flying-
boats’ leader, Group-Capt. Cave-Brown-Cave,
gave the great man welcome.
The Town Hall reception to Prince Taka-
matsu, Vice-Admiral Ivobayashi and officers
of the Japanese training ships drew an
attendance of nearly 30001 The scarlet mess-
jackets of the Army, the grey uniforms of
the Air Force and the gold-braided blue of
the Navy mingled with the rainbow hues of
citizenesses in their best georgettes and most
fetching bandeaux. Mayor Morell put on
his robes of office, and his lady took her
stance in black lace with a twinkle of dia-
monds. On the arrival of the Mikados
brother the string band played first the
well-known composition of Dr. Bull and then
a piece that sounded suspiciously Sullivan-
esque, but which was said to be the visitors
national hymn. Aldermen and councillors
and their womenfolk grouped themselves
upon the dais against a background of ferns
and golden-brown chrysanthemums, and pot-
plants and palms were scattered all around
the hall.
Speaker Alec Peacock was there with
his genial lady, who wore a robe ot
dull-gold lace with touches of black. Mrs.
J. S. Fraser gleamed in an embroidered robe
of gold and crystal. The Weedon lady s
brow was banded with gold and pink leaves
above raiment of pink. An interesting visi-
tor was Miss Strom, the Swedish lady
who is to marry Percy Grainger She wore
a frock of pale green splashed with pink
opalescent sequins, over which was thrown
a wrap dangling green and white shaded
feathers. Air-Marshal Salmond was a com-
manding figure in the official circle, and
Conunendatore Bavagnoli, who accompanied
the Italian Consul, put up a brave front tor
Italy. A recent arrival from England was
Isabel Drake Brockman, a nice-looking, fair-
haired lass, who wore apple-green taffeta.
Sheila Morell was in a flounced frock ot
pale amber satin.
Officers of the visiting Japanese training
ships were entertained by the president ot
the local branch of the Japan Society,
medical-knight James Barrett and Ins lady
at their Toorak home. Vice-Admiral Kobay-
ashi and Prince Takamatsu were in the fore-
front of the guests. The hostess wore black
satin with bright embroidery and a hat ot
black velvet; her daughter Cara was in a
bois-de-rose-liued velvet surfaced jersey suit.
Some Japanese citizens were invited, among
them the Consul-General, Iyemasu Tokugawa,
Madame Taniguclii, wife of a merchant,
graced the function in national dress. VV.
Mcßeath, Hon. Consul for Japan in this city,
and his lady, Vice-Admiral and Mrs. Napier
and Mayoress Morell were some of the
Britishers present.
Port Melbourne, in the chilliness and damp-
ness of Thursday afternoon, was not an ideal
location for a social function, but the men
of the Japanese navy made the training-ship
Idzumo a very comfortable place, and the
entertainment given by Vice-Admiral Seizo
Kobayashi, Prince Takumat.su and the
officers to their guests was a first-class one.
There was jiu-jitsu and wrestling, an inspec-
tion of every part of the ship, and a plenti-
ful supply of pretty souvenirs for everybody.
Refreshments in the wardroom were laid
amid a miniature landscape garden. Ihe
ship’s band provided musical accompaniment
for the four o’clock repast, and broke into
jazz for those who wished to test, the possi-
bilities of the deck as a dancing floor. Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. Napier ; Premier Hogan,
who brought his two boys along; Belgian
Consul Vanderkclen and his wife. Com-
mander and Mrs. Stevenson and the Barrett
lady and daughter Cara were among those
who climbed the gangway.
Mrs. Russell Jackson and her sister, Mrs.
Edward Dyson, were among those who
offered hospitality to the Japanese navy.
At their mothers home, Hazel Dell, St.
Kilda, they gave a tea-party which was
perhaps more interesting to the British
guests than to the foreigners, since the
latter sang some of the songs of their nation
to the accompaniment of Japanese musical
instruments. Ten senior officers and twenty-
five juniors were present, and some of them
chorused a sea chanty and a lament upon
the death of an admiral. Walter- Kirby,
Mrs. Dyson, Rowena Roland and others
reciprocated with Occidental music.
Albert-street Con. students are doing their
bit towards gathering coin for the Million
Shilling Appeal for a permanent orchestra
in this city. They have nominated the dark-
eyed lady pic-
tured here by
Lafayette to
represent them
in the Princess
of Music page-
ant, which is
a movement to
excite interest
in the appeal.
As Rita Tay-
lor she studied
vocalism at
the Con. and
lately became
the wife of a
rising barris-
ter, Harry
Uxbridge Best,
who also is
keen on music.
She will repre-
sent one of the
modern com-
posers in the
pageant, and a series of entertainments will
be held to assist her candidature.
Interest in the first performance of
“L’Amore Dei tre Re” at His Majesty’s
was of the keenest. Patrons who held invi-
tations to the civic reception that evening
wouldn’t miss any of the opera. They
merely dashed down to the Town Hall in
an interval to leave their cards, and even
the champagne supper wasn’t sufficient bait
to dure them away from the musical feast.
Though the public didn’t know it, conductor
Emilio Rossi put on the magnificent show
with only two rehearsals, At the final
curtain Lina Scavizzi, in flowing white
draperies, resurrected herself from a velvet-
covered bier to receive loads of flowers.
Granforte and Merli also arose from the
dead to take laurel wreaths, and Auton,
who was the sightless king received a
volume adorned with many silk book-marker*.
Many garlands were piled up against the
conductor’s stand. Dame Nellie Melba was
with the Harry Whiting couple in the d.c.,
which also contained Mrs. Alan Currie, Mrs.
George Blackwood. Mrs. Dermot Casey and
her mother. Mrs. Everard Browne and many
other society folk. Some of the boxes were
occupied by Japanese and Argentine naval
officers.
Dr. Wilfred Foster, pictured here by
Brootliorne, has recently qualified as a Fel-
low of the Royal College of Surgeons, Lon-
don. A sou of the late Dr. H. I>. loster,
his career has been marked by a series of sue-
cesses gained,
so to speak, off
his own bat,
for he had not
the assistance
of a coach.
The young
student gradu-
ated with first-
class honors at
Melbourne Uni.
10 years ago,
securing the
Keith Levi
Memorial
Scholarship in
medicine, the
Beni Scholar-
ship in sur-
gery and a
half-share in
the F ull on
Scholarship in
obstetrics and
gyniEColoigy.
His M.D. degree was obtained the following
year, and he started practice. But bis ambi-
tion was not satisfied. He continued to study,,
and last year liis Alma Mater conferred upon
him the degree of Master of Surgery. With
his young wife, a daughter of Dr. Skinner,
of this city, and their small girl, lie.
sailed to London to place the coping-stone on
his record of distinctions. A proud family
expects to welcome home the new Australian
Fellow towards the end of the year.
Toti dal Monte was at her prettiest in the
third act of “Don Pasquale” at His Majesty’s
last week. She wore a robe of cloth of silver
with wired hips opening over a petticoat of
striped brocade, topped by a powdered coif-
fure twinkling with brilliants. Fernando
Autori, Emilio Ghirardini and the lady made
the pace a merry one, and a packed house
that included several Japanese naval officers
gave the tuneful opera a rousing reception.
Leo Cherniavsky and his wife, the Clarke
lady,, displaying a coat of silver and blue
brocade, the Fred Grimwades, Mrs. Geoffrey
Gibbs and Judge Starke and his wife were
patrons.
Commendatore Bavagnoli, the principal
conductor of the Willi amson-Melba Co.,
allowed himself to be lionised at the
Albert-street Con. on Thursday after-
noon, when Dame Nellie Meiba and
Fritz Hart did the honors. The tall Dante-
like Italian seemed to enjoy being among
the girls, the youngest-hearted of whom was
the diva, who,' after welcoming the guest in
the language of Mussolini, sat herself down to
the piano and sang Tosti’s “Mattinata.”
Ropes of pearls careered over her black
satin frock, and a crimson feather mount
rested on the brim of her black felt hat.
Mary Patterson, a niece of the Dame and a
sister of the tennis champion, interpreted
to Bavagnoli the complimentary speech of
Fritz Hart. The choir, then sang the Con.
director’s “Salve Caput Cruentatum,” with
Lilian Stott as soloist and Ida Scott at
the piano. Gertrude Healy and her fiddle
and Mignon Weston with the cor Anglais
also took part. The Italian maestro thanked
everyone and then there was a clatter of
teacups. Mrs. Fritz Hart, Mrs. Herbert
Brookes, Mrs. Harry Emmerton and Strella
Wilson were there.
It’s a swift descent from grand opera to
musical comedy as light as Monckton made
it, but His Majesty's on Saturday night
resounded quite pleasantly to the simple
melodies of “The Quaker Girl,” put on by the
Victorian Opera Co. Ida Ashton, Ida Hall
and the Mackey lady were among the princi-
pals of a mostly amateur east. A feature
were two daintily-frocked and gracefully-per-
formed ballets by pupils of Ruth Weston,
the teacher herself being seen in a clever
bacchante dance. A good house gave the
performers deserved encouragement and
flowers galore. Producer was called upon
for a speech, and praised the young actors.
Mrs. Wenman, Mrs. Harry Emmerton, the
Weedon lady, Mrs. F. Eggleston and Mrs.
James Purves were in the audience.
Melbourne’s chances of establishing a per-
manent orchestra seem to be remote, judging
by the difficulties experienced in gather-
ing in the necessary funds. A very attrac-
tive concert at the Assembly Hall last week
in aid of the cause was only meagrely
attended. Proceeds were to support Mrs.
W. Mortill’s candidature in the Princess of
Music pageant for the fund. Mrs. Mortill
had the aid of Mrs. Corrie Gardner in organ-
ising the concert, and the Firm’s opera stars,
Fernando Autori and Madame Vere de Crist-
off, gave their services. Other performers
were Madame Mina Heseleva, the Russian
soprano, fiddler Gertrude Healy and pianist
Louise Gargurevicli. As Mrs. Mortill is to
represent a Russian composer in the pageant
the programme consisted mostly of music
by Russians. A bunch of the grand opera
principals attended to hear their* fellow
artists on the concert platform.
Last week the Old Girls of Loreto Con-
vent chatted over old times at No. 9. Mrs,
J. J. Daly, the president, wearing Parma-
violet velvet, headed the organisers of the
happy gathering, of which the joint lion,
secs, were Mrs. L. McKenna, featuring black
lace and georgette, and Miss M. Hayden, in
nattier-blue taffeta. Representatives of
kindred unions swelled the throng.
At the Victoria League’s monthly gather-
ing Prof. Berry talked brightly about the con-
trasts between London and New York. The
attendance was nigh to overflowing. Mrs.
J. S. Fraser, one of the hostesses of toe
afternoon, thanked the speaker for his enter-
taining address, and there followed the usual:
chatter over a brew of tea. Mrs. Buckleton,
president of the V.L. in Wellington (M.L.).
was a welcomed visitor.
Very mildly Bohemian was the fancy-
dress hop of the National Gallery Old
Students on Friday night. The Exhibition
dance-hall was decorated with nursery-rhyme
posters and fairy symbols. Dora S. Andrews,
in Dolly Varden attire of silver and gold
lace and poke bonnet, was lion, sec., and
Mabel Mattingley, Billy Coleman George
Colville, Pat Harford, Mrs. Baker (a dash-
ing Carmen) and Hilda Forrest were among
the artistic revellers.
For an hour or two last week the Dark
Angel hovered over the homes of two mem-
bers of the Cabinet, but, mercifully did not
take toll. While Premier Hogan was moving
that Alec Peacock be elected Speaker, Mrs.
Hogan was seriously ill. On taking the
chair Speacock claimed the sympathy of
fellow members for the head of the Govern-
ment, and it was given sincerely. Fortunately
Mrs Hogan took a turn for the better the
same night. A day or two earlier 800
Williams, Honorary Minister and Mayor
of South Melbourne, was deeply concerned
over the critical condition of his daughter,
Mrs. Murphy, but surgical skill triumphed
in her case.
The Louis Nelkens have acquired the late
Mrs. Claude Hamilton’s Macedon home,
Roseleaf, which adjoins the Norton Grimwade
residence. After introducing some modern
improvements they intend refurnishing dm-
ing the summer. Roseleaf, which is sur-
rounded by an acre of garden, is a bit o
early history ; it was built on a portion ot
the Riddell estate, which sprawled over the
uninhabited mount. ‘
The Henry Madden family intend putting
their Toorak home on the market, as its
inmates will presently be scattered. Kutli,
the Gavan Duffy widow, is joining a party
of relatives for a saunter round the world.
Allison Madden and sister Barbara are
also planning extended wanderings.
Mrs. Robert Knox, is contemplating life
as a country chatelaine with a pleased ex
pression. Gisborne Park, the spacious blue-
stone mansion surrounded by broad acres,
will presently be set in order for her rule.
More than any other of Janet Olathe s
children she has inherited her mothers
social gifts. When the Park receives its
new owners, their present Toorak home
Greenknowe, will be available for other
occupation.
“A.G.M.’s” notes from London: —
Rupert Clarke’s widow, who elects to be known
in public social announcements as Lady Clarke ot
Rupertswood, despite the fact that that picturesqw
seat has long since passed out of the family,
been staying at Biarritz, with Joyce Lindsay. They
have now gone on to Madrid and are making thei
excursions from the Ritz Hotel, which is one of tne
finest hostelries in Europe’s most elevated capital.
Joyce Lindsay is a daughter of the late baronet
step-sister Mary, the Hon. Mrs. Lindsay, and is one
of the most vivacious members of the younger set.
Had the new Duke of Newcastle’s second wife
lived, there would have been an Australian duchess
of singular beauty and charm; for Olive
of Brighton was an unusually attractive gir
bore a striking resemblance to her cousin, Lou
Mason, who was Melba’s accomplished private seer-
tary and most competent guide for many } ea '
Both were nieces of Dr. O’Hara, the dashing
bourne medico who so successfully combined surge,
sport and music. Olive Thompson lived only eigh
years after her marriage to Lord Francis Hope,
first wife was May Yohe. His son and h ? ir ’
now becomes Earl of Lincoln, was born
and in features closely resembles his handsome B ran
mother, Mrs. George Thompson, who shared to
full the good looks of the O’Hara family.


A. SAUNDERS’
PRESENTATION
SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
A. SAUNDERS’ Real French Briar Pipe
8/6, 12/6, 15/6, 21/-
Silver Mounts,
A. Ante-
lope Tobacco Pouch.
Best English Rubber-
lined Silver Shield, 10/6
Gold Shield, 15/-, 20/-
Square shape same
price.
A. SAUNDERS’ Cigar and Cigar-
ette Combination Case, Sterling
Silver, handsomely engraved, 70/-
With Gold Shield, 80/-
WE
PAY
POSTAGE
A. SAUNDERS’ Smokers’ Com-
panion, Cigar Holder, Match
Box and Ash Tray. Pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, 30/-
A. SAUNDERS’ “Cigarette Box,”
Sterling Silver, Cedar lined, to
hold 100 cigarettes. Plain de-
sign, £5/5/-. Engraved Ribbon
design, £5/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
BILLABONG ENCASED-GEAR WINDMILL
RESPONDS
TO LIGHTEST BREEZE.
RUNS SAFE IN A GALE.
Just the Windmill for the BUSY
MAN on the land. Requires but
slight attention. Possesses a life-
time of service.
Expert Engineers put the Billabong
FIRST as an engineering achieve-
ment. It is DOUBLE-GEARED,
and the Gears run in an Oil Bath.
The strong Cast-iron Box encasing
the head is the most complete of
all Windmill encasements and is
thoroughly rainproof and dustproof.
The Billabong, with its perfect
lubrication, will give many extra
years of service.
CATALOGUE AND PRICES
Post Free on Request.
I
II;;
r“33l*r
d 'v:
; r f-'Sar^.
iossii
Billabong
■ appnMi *wP g
W&jffk
sgj^iSfess
-^wgjSSs
eVR
sifNSf;-'"*' *“"*i
33
y* r.,*»' -. A,
V
*f • •-,»T-
-4 s^dß
-s<r
&&SH&
®a
SOCIAL PROBLEMS
£
r
'Mi
?
A, attending an important sale of pictures merely as a spectator, finds
that, owing to an unfortunate habit of nodding his head when excited,
he has become the purchaser of. one of the world’s greatest pictures
at one of the world s greatest prices.
What should A do ?
• • •
Undoubtedly - - LIGHT AN ABDULLA.
superb Cigarettes
TURKISH EGYPTIAN VIRGINIA
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
’ 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


PROHIBITION HM BEEM AM
UTTER FAILURE WHEREVER TRIED
triton
claims
facts
Prohibition is claimed to have en-
sured the PROSPERITY of the
U.S.A.
Prohibition is claimed to be a RE-
VOLT against the abuse of drink.
Prohibition is claimed to be a virtue
which brings all vice into the OPEN.
Prohibition is supposed to protect
HOME-LIFE.
Prohibition claims to promote IN-
DUSTRY.
Prohibition claims that BOOT-
LEGGING can quickly be stamped
out.
Prohibition is alleged to minimise
INIQUITY.
Prohibition is said to bring about
TEMPERANCE.
Prohibition is supposed to promote
INTEGRITY.
Prohibitionists state that their law
promotes ORDER.
Prohibition advocates claim to seek
NATIONAL PROSPERITY.
Economists have proved conclusively
that the prosperity of America is
NOT due to Prohibition at all, and
that Prohibition is a shackle on the
national life.
Prohibition invariably proves itself
to be a cause of revolt against estab-
lished law and order.
The experience of other nations is
that Prohibition fosters vice by driv-
ing it underground.
Prohibition destroys the privacy of
the home and puts it under immedi-
ate supervision by officials.
Prohibition would unload upon both
Capitalists and Workers of N.S.W.
a gigantic burden of extra taxation.
Experience shows that it is the boot-
legging element which most strongly
supports Prohibition.
Prohibition has naturally created
more new forms of iniquity than any
other law.
Prohibition and Temperance are
diametrically opposed because Pro-
hibition itself is intemperate.
Prohibition actually induces crime,
deceit and a contempt for law and
order.
Prohibition has invariably brought
strife and lawlessness in its train.
Prohibition would cost the people
of N.S.W. £20,000,000 in compen-
sation plus £4,600,000 annually in
loss of revenue to the Common-
wealth, with £3,500,000 cost of
enforcement.
Vote for the HONEST Ticket
YOTE NO
Inserted by the CITIZENS’ RIGHTS AND LIQUOR REFORM ASSOCIATION,
to further the cause of Liberty and Freedom of Action. Financial Support is
invited, and Subscriptions for Membership will be received at BELMONT
CHAMBERS, 15 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.


To Depositors in Savings Banks
and Other Banks.
On 15 th September next many Commonwealth War Loan
Bonds which have been deposited with Banks fall due for payment.
If you are the owner of any of these Bonds you may leave
your money with the Commonwealth Government for a further
term of seven or fourteen years, and at a higher interest rate.
The renewal loan carries a nominal interest of 5 4 per cent.;
but, as a cash bonus of £l/10/- is paid for each £lOO converted,
the average interest return for a seven years’ investment is £5/1 0/3,
and for fourteen years £5/8/1.
Conversion can be readily arranged by calling at, or writing
to, the Bank which is holding your Bonds. As the cash bonus is
payable promptly, early conversion is of advantage.
Conversions of small as well as large sums are desired. You
may convert as small an amount as £1 0. Also, you are invited to
make a cash subscription to the new Loan.
EARLE PAGE,
Commonwealth Treasury, Treasurer.
Canberra, F.C.T.
Amusements.
C .<i i i K E T H E A T U E,
" Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Thursdays & Saturdays, 2.15.
Great New York Golfing Story,
TOP HOLE.
With Van Lowe, Renee Dixon, Blanche Jones, Russell
Scott, Audrey Lewis, Fred Bluett, Violet Elliott
and All-Star Cast.
The Famous Empire Pony Ballet and Beauty Chorus.
Week Nights: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6, 7/6. Sat. Nights: 3/3,
5/6, 8/6. Matinees: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6. Children: l/- f
1/6, 2/6. Reserves: Theatre, MAlOOO_, and all city
Booking Offices.
SYD N E IMS1 M S CHIEF THEATRES.
J C. WTT.T TAMPON, T.TD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: GRAND OPERA.
ROYAL: SCANDAL.
CRITERION: OUR BETTERS.
PALACE:
THE LAUGHING OPTIMIST.
(Commencing next Saturday Night.)
P < K'i:i»S' TIVOLI THEATRES.
m Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELERRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
r* EG ENT THEATRE, SYDNEY.
1 m COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUS THEATRE
will present
BATTLES OF CORONEL AND FALK-
LAND ISLANDS.
MARIE LORRAINE in
THE FAR PARADISE.
ALLAN WILKIE ami .MISS HUNTER.
WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays o!
SHAKSPKARE.
In preparation: “Henry IV.” (Parts I and II),
“Richard IT.”
In Season, MAJESTIC THEATRE, NEWTOWN.
Sydney Rep.: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229, Sydney.
’Phone: MA1277.
J C. W I LLIAMSO N. LTD.,
“■ MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: THE GIRL FRIEND.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE PATSY.
A TIIEN A, U M THEA T R E,
n MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
Commencing SATURDAY, JULY 4.
E. J. Carroll presents, by arrangement with Richard
White and Eric Edgley, the Hilarious Comedy,
NEW BROOMS,
Starring the Beautiful Young Artist,
LEONA HOGARTH. i
UOYT’b DE LUXE THEATRE,
- MELBOURNE.
HAROLD LLOYD as
THE BIG BROTHER.
Also
BUCK JONES in
THE BRANDED SOMBRERO.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE,
NEXT SATURDAY.
GEORGE JESSELL in
The Warner Farce Comedy,
GINSBURG THE GREAT.
Box Plan at Allans’ & Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790.
For Sale.
FOR SALE.
GRAZING HOMESTEAD.
24 years to run, almost 40,000
acres, Western Queensland. Flinders, Mit-
chell grasses, Bore, Windmill, securely
fenced, estimated capacity 12,000 sheep.
AppIy—PUBLIC CURATOR,
Townsville,
Queensland.
if any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Missing Friends.
VY7ILL JAMES RUPERT PRICE, last
vv heard of in Wellington, N.S.W., in
October, 1915, or anyone knowing his present
address, please communicate with the Per-
manent Trustee Co. of N.S.W., Ltd., 25
O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Y''UNDERSEN, JACOB OLAF, architect,
born 1827 at Copenhagen, Denmark —
Emigrated to Australia in 1859. His legal
heirs or anyone knowing of their where-
abouts are requested to communicate with
the Danish Consulate-General, 58 Margaret
Street, Sydney.
JOB.
WOULD PERCIYAL ST. JOHN JOB,
a son of John Exon Job and Sophia
Louisa Job (formerly le Couilliard), who
was born at Northcote, Victoria, on the 3rd
May, 1895, or anyone having information
regarding his whereabouts, please communi-
cate with-
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY,
(Limited),
23-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
It does away with the drudgery and
_ dust of a broom and is handier, quicker
and better than any other kind of
cleaning device for the everyday and
many-times-a-day sweeping of carpets
and rugs.
Thumb pressure empties it.
Gets clinging litter.
Instantly ready for use.
Saves carpets.
Lasts for years.
Costs but little, and nothing to run.
Has rubber corner cushions.
Verily, a ball-bearing broom-on-wheels
with its own long-handled dust pans.
Play-size Bissells at trifling cost.
Sold by leading merchants everywhere.
Booklet upon invitation.
3IS SELL CARPET SWEEPER CO.
GRAND RAPIDS, MICHIGAN, U. S. A.
Export Dep’t—46 West Broadway
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
Oldest and Largest Sweeper Makers
“THE WOMAN'S MIRROR,'
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Goodwins, their guest, Miss Hine-
Haycock, and Colonel Campbell are away in
the North, fishing in Gladstone Harbor and
contemplating a trip to the Barrier Reef.
Sir John will have to make another journey
in September if he wants to catch the Reef
at its best, for then the turtles are busy
and bird-life at its liveliest. Gladstone did
itself proud with a picnic at which Mayor
Ferris and his wife were host and hostess,
and Captain Carlson’s motor-launch took
the party across to the North End. Calliope
station, where the famous Herefords are,
was ready with a warm welcome.
Mrs. Campbell is staying with the Mc-
Leans, of .Magenta station, while her Colonel
accompanies the Governor on his northern
explorations.
The United Service Club held an informal
dance at its rooms, which were dressed up
with flags. Mr. and Mrs. Beamish received
the throng, amongst whom were Colonel Ray
Stanley and his wife.
Mrs. E. T. Amos, of this city, will be one
of the 25 women to go to the Pan-Pacific
Conference at Honolulu. She graduated at
Sydney Uni. and afterwards studied in Ber-
lin. She was in Germany when the Great
War started.
Hubert Harris —his father, Colonel Hubert
Harris, was killed at Gallipoli, and his
mother was pretty Leila O’Mahony, second
cousin of Lord Lamington, one time Gover-
nor here —was married at St. Monica’s,
Cairns, to Gladys Irene, second daughter of
E. C. Earle and the late Mrs. Earle, of
Balaclava, Cairns. Hubert Harris is in the
Law.
The cancer campaign funds have reached
the £20,000 mark.
Our wattle is beautiful this year, and
the outskirts of the city are trimmed with
fluffy yellows. “You don’t mean to say
this grows wild?” said a recent New York
visitor, examining a posy of, the fragrant
bloom.
Pat O’Shea is off by the Aorangi to spend
his winnings on Canning Queen, his star
horse, in U.S.A. His sister Ella and his
brother T.J. are having a trip to Singapore
this month.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The Old Hobartians footed it a thousand
strong at tbeir ball in the City Hall, but
dancing was not the only item on the pro-
gramme. Mighty deeds were done by mem-
bers of the Gymnastic Club, there was a
demonstration of eurhythmies by the senior
girls of the High School, and a great deal of
music. The High School funds have been
considerably augmented by the venture, and,
encouraged by the success, the O. H. Asso-
ciation is planning a fancy-dress masked
ball.
St. Patrick’s College’s annual dance, held
in Launceston’s spacious Albert Hall, catered
for young and old. The kiddies stepped out till
nine o’clock, after which their elders took
the floor. The O’Grady shed the light, of
his countenance on the proceedings, and was
received by the joint secs., Elvie Quigley and
F. Thomas, and conducted to the stage, where
he was handed ovgr to Dean Henessey and
Principal Dwyer. The hall was decorated
in the school colors, green, gold and white,
with electric-light shades in harmonising
tones.
Peggy, daughter of the Lance Archers,
Tolarno, St. Leonards, has accepted a spark-
ling decoration for her left hand from Frere
Soul, eldest son of the C. H. Souls, Sym-
mon’s Plains. Both the young folk are well
known in northern-country circles.
John Gellibrand and his lady are back
at their home at Lindisfarne, where they will
spend the Parliamentary vacation.
This is a portrait of Mrs. Mary Grant,
violinist and singer, a well-known Hobart
musician who had some of her training in
the Cold Country. The Mclntyre family, of
which she is
a member, are
all more or
less musical,
and M r s.
Grant has
been a singer
since her in-
fancy. Later
she developed
a love for the
violin, and
studied under
Hubert
Arnold, who
afterwards be-
came a cele-
brated teacher
in New York,
and later
under Henri
Stahl, in Syd-
ney. Her last
teacher m
England was Cyril Monk. Her voice was
trained by Hermann Klein, in London, but
she had previously studied in Sydney. While
in the Big Smoke she was invited to join
the London Symphony Orchestra, but her
health would not permit.
Margaret O’Grady is home after a short
trip to the mainland. She had as fellow pas-
sengers a horde of music-lovers who seized
the chance of an operatic feast in Melbourne,
and who have returned with a slightly
superior air.
Self-taught artist Joseph Connor, of
Hobart, is a prouder man still. First he had
a picture hung by the R.A. of London; now
lie lias received an invitation to exhibit it,
the “Blue Boat,” at the Birmingham Exhi-
bition at the end of the year. Fellow Tas-
manian artists are warmly congratulatory.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The S, M. Bruces had a crowded two
days of receptions, lunches, meetings and
private functions while in this city. Car,
train and aeroplane were used for their
three busy days of country travelling. At a
ladies’ reception in the Y.A.L. Hall the
Priminister made the only speech of the
afternoon. Tea was served on wattle- and
liovea-decorated tables. Mrs. Bruce wore
black velvet and a black toque ornamented
with brilliants; Mrs Pearce was also in
black; Mrs. Franklin wore rose beige and
Mrs. Temperley,. black satin. Mrs. Jacoby
and Mrs. Langlois Lefroy sported handsome
peschaniki coats.
Pretty frocks and quantities of diamente
collars, bracelets and imitation pearls went
to the Piccadilly Cabaret the other evening.
Molly Atkins, in old rose satin-de-soie and
lace, entertained a large party. Among her
guests were Doreen O’Hara, in a bouffant
frock of pink taffetas; Dot Hayes, in
fringes and embroideries of crystal beads on
white; her sister Eileen, in black; Daphne
Byron, in moonbeam satin embroidered
with bands of bugle and steel beads, and
Edna Downing, iu bois-de-rose gleaming with
sequins. In other parties were Mrs. Guy
McLeod, in Nile-green; Mrs. Farrar, in a
flutter of rosy chiffons girdled with ring
velvet; Dorothy Summerhayes, in ruby red ;
Frankie Trouchet,. in black taffetas; and
Beth Curlewis, in rainbow tulle and pink
tissue.
Lindsay Gordon Colebatch,. pictured here,
is, as his christening gives testimony, a
dyed-in-the-wool Australian. He was born
in Perth 30 years ago, son of a very capable
father who,
after holding
high offices in
the State, in-
eluding the
Premiership,
became its re-
presentative in
London. The
youngster did
his bit in
France* where
he was badly
wounded. Dur-
ing a long stay
in hospital he
conceived the
idea, of follow-
ing! a musical
bent. Nature
endowed nim
with a remark-
ably sweet
tenor voice,
fine physique
and engaging personality. London’s Nora
Delmar found him a worth-while pupil, and
after a year she sent him on to Itomo, where
Cecchini taught him the tricks of the oper-
atic stage. So highly did the impresarios
of the Imperial City rate the Australian's
abilities that Gordon was allowed to make
his debut in Rome as a principal—Turiddu
in “Cavalleria Rusticana” —and his Italian
press notices are the most commendatory
that have been accorded to an outsider for
years.
Ross Memorial Church was chosen by
Jean. Virtue and Bill Murdoch for their
marriage last week. The bride wore white
beaded georgette and a train of silver lame
gleamed through a panel of Brussels lace.
Her veil was of white tulle, and she carried
a. sheaf of lilies and wore slippers of eau-de-
nil tissue. _ Bridesmaids Enid Tymns and
Dorothy Bird wore handkerchief flounces of
apple-green georgette and hats of bois-de-
rose felt.
Perth College is mourning the passing of
Sister Vera, at the age of 75. A native of
Finland, she spent her childhood in Russia,
and later, in England, joined the Mother
Foundress of th e Sisters of the Church.
She came to Australia and founded Perth
College and the Parkerville Waifs’ Home.
Her gentle spirit and keen ability will be
sadly missed by staff and pupils, and by
the old girls, who often visited on,e of their
most helpful teachers.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Murray Bridge was the centre of attrac-
tion when the town held its annual Hunt
Club Ball. Many of the Adelaide hunting
crowd journeyed there. Principal feature of
the decorations was a giant replica, 14 feet
high, of the Murray Bridge Hunt Cup, elec-
trically illuminated. Red and white ribbons
extended from the cup, which was suspended
from the ceiling, to the surrounding walls.
The Governor and Lady Hore-Ruthven,
accompanied by Captain and Mrs. G- H.
Verney, were received by the president of
the club and Mrs. Jenkins. The v.-r. party
returned to Adelaide the following day.
Lectures by Maude Royden have been well
attended. Her audiences arrived armed with
rugs, in which they rolled themselves, for our
Town Hall is like a refrigerating chamber
at this time of the year. The Victoria
League invited members to come along for a
handshake with the lady, and a very tony
gathering resulted. The Lyceum Club mem-
bers, led by their president Mrs. John Cor-
bin, also welcomed Miss Royden, and re-
freshment was served among sweet-peas and
autumnal foliage. The membership of this
club is increasing now that intellectual quali-
fications are no longer insisted upon.
The late American Consul, Mr. H. H.
Balch, is now filling the same bill in
Mexico, where things are a shade more
lively than he found them here. The actui"-
consul who arrived from Melbourne to take
Ins place, Leo Callanan, is young and uuap-
propiated.
The engagement has been announced of
Mr. Cavanough, a member of our little
American colony, to Mollie Hill, a niece of
Clem.
Mayor and Mayoress Bonythcn gave the
citizens a shock when they issued invitations
tor mayoral balls for three successive
The tradespeople ought to rise up and "cal i
them blessed, especially as the third dauce
is a fancy-dress one for children.


Creative Ingenuity
of Bonds Designers in
the Fashioning of thej
New Full Length Leg
SYLIv'ARTO
Stocking
/&M- ao 9ine
/.
hmt- ao Ati’ong
There is a Wonderful Range of
NEW SEASON’S SHADES
Bond s Sylk-Arto Hosiery :: Made in Australia for You
by THE EMPLOYEES OF GEO. A. BOND & CO. LTD. (IN LIQUIDATION.)
VIVIAN*
ej
SYDNEY AOVT.
STUDIO X


THE
PORT OF HULL
for reception of
Frozen Meat exported to
Great Britain.
Cold Storage, 890,000 Cubic Feet.
Prompt Despatch in Refrigerator
Waggons to All Parts of the
Country by Express Trains of the
London and North-Eastern Railway
AUSTRALIAN SHIPPERS are invited to
inquire for further information at the offices
of Messrs. BURNS, PHILP & CO.. LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout New Zealand:
J. A. REDPATH & SONS, LTD.
L.N.E.R.
Largest Dock-owning Railway in
the World.
16.
BUTTONING UP THE PURSE
is an out-of-date phrase, but the principle holds good; yet
there is a better way of saving money than by merely refrain-
ing from spending it.
Money in your pocket, or your purse, is practically money
spent, for it is too readily available for every whim to buy
this or that unneeded trifle.
Save in the modern way. Open a Commonwealth
oavmgs Account and let the pounds and the shillings and the
pence work for you.
There is a Savings Bank Agency in every Post Office.
Commonwcaltb Eanl: of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
be health
J drink
1
the finest
tonic food,
drink
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists
and Stores
LA GLOIRE.
By-JH.M.ABBOTT.
MPAUL RAOUL St. ANTOINE
. DESCHAMPS was a young French
gentleman who, in the pursuit of
glory, as it was understood in the legions of
the Emperor Napoleon, had met with great
misfortune—misfortune of a sort that it was
almost impossible to hope to remedy, of a sort
terrible and incredible, of a sort pathetic as
it was outrageous.
Consider how lamentable it must have been
to have served upon the staff of Marsal Soult
in the Iberian Peninsula, and then, by an
almost unaccountable turn of chance, to have
come to serve the particular enemies of
France in their meanest and most outlandish
outpost as a manacled slave, and you may
have some conception of the bitterness with
which M. Deschamps reflected upon liis dire
misfortunes. To have been wounded and
taken prisoner—that was nothing but an ex-
ample of the fortune of war of which no
reasonable soldier could complain. To have
been interned in England upon refusing to
give his parole —that was only to be expected.
To have been herded with hundreds of com-
patriots in a strictly-guarded war prison—
that was all in the day’s work, after one
had been frustrated in an attempt to get
back to France across the Channel. To have
suffered innumerable indignities and humilia-
tions—that was to be looked for. But to
have been landed in a chain-gang in this exe-
crable, loathsome, damnable Nouvelle Galles
i fl u< ? was trop fort! -It was too
dreadful a thing, almost, to regard as other
than an impossible nightmare. It could not
be true—in the very nature* of everything it
could not be true ! But it was true. It was
both sacredly and damnably true.
M. Le Capitaine Deschamps had been taken
prisoner almost at the end of the glorious,
though brief, campaign when the French
army under Marshal Soult had driven the
presumptuous Sir .John Moore into the sea at
Corunna, and that undeniably able English
commander lost his life. Deschamps had been
sent by the Marshal himself to reconnoitre
the enemy s skirmishing line near the village
ot Los Ayres, and, in the enthusiasm which
ever distinguished his service, had pressed too
tar forward, in order to make quite sure of
the situation. Thus, with that rashness ever
to be looked for in the truly brave, to
whom Glory is a guiding star, he had endea-
vored to sabre the advanced sentry of a
liritisli picket, with the unfortunate result
that that red-faced Jean Boule had shot his
horse dead, and then bayoneted him in the
thigh as he was disentangling himself from
the saddle.. He had been hurried to the rear,'
and that night found himself a prisoner upon
one of the transports which were conveying
the retreating English army back to Engl'and.
An English colonel had treated him with dis-
tinguished kindness, seeing that his wound
was dressed, and that he was made as com-
fortable as circumstances permitted. To that
gentleman, commiserating with him upon bis
ill-fortune in being thus made captive in the
hour of victory, he had expressed himself in
words which seemed to make a deep impres-
sion.
“Ah, mon ami,” he had said, with a gesture
implying resignation to the inevitable, “eet is
not anythin gs. Eet is ze fortune of war. A
leetle, leetle thing. G’est pour la cfloire de la
belle France for such a sacrifice to be de-
manded of me. I do not repine myself. Tou-
jours pour la <jloire.”
But he had found very little glory in being
a prisoner of war in the bleak island where
he presently found himself, and had early
sought an opportunity to return to France.
Having been caught at Dover whilst attempt-
ing to bribe a fisherman to ferry him across
to Calais, M. Deschamps was promptly in-
terned in one of the several war prisons ex-
isting at the time in Kent, and here real
disaster had overtaken him.
Another inmate of the prison was a French
sailor named Georges Degrout, wdio was
strongly suspected by his companions of being
a British spy, placed among them in order to
report any concerted movement on the part
of the prisoners-of-war to regain their liberty.
They were all uneasy about him, and no one
was willing to be recognised as his friend.
One day there came into the prison a
*• I’Cftch naval lieutenant who, immediately
upon seeing Degrout, denounced him vehe-
mently. He was, he said, exactly what his
tellow-pnsoners had suspected him of being,
the lieutenant recognised him as a former
pctty-officer in a frigate he had served in
himself, who had deserted his ship in the
”„ ost Indies a couple of years before, and
offered his. services to the British as a secret
agent. This denunciation was made in public,
before a large group of prisoners, amongst
whom was standing M. Deschamps. So en-
raged was that gentleman upon this revela-
tion of Degrout’s infamous character that he
stepped up to that terrified individual and
caught him a tremendous buffet on the side
of the head with his open hand. Immediately
the reprehensible Georges added to his other
reprehensibilities by dropping down dead. He
was a gross, fat man, and this wgs probably
the effect of fright rather than the blow
administered to him by M. Deschamps. Never-
theless, the prison authorities arrested the
latter, charged him with murder, and pre-
sented him for trial at the Old Bailey in
London. There had been a good deal of
ouarrelling over political affairs amongst the
French prisoners-of-war throughout the coun-
try, and several fatalities had resulted from
them. It was resolved to make an example
of Deschamps. So he was sent back to Can-
terbury, to be hanged in the prison in the
presence of his fellow-countrymen.
A tall gallows was erected in the prison
yard, and the. unhappy officer stood in a cart
beneath it with the noose of a rope round
his neck, whilst the Commandant of the
prison made a speech which finally con-
cluded with the intimation that, out of his
gracious clemency, his Royal Highness the
Prince Regent had interceded on his behalf,
“He took Deschamps by the arm. ‘Be seated, my friend ,' he said, ‘the Governor
wishes to speak to you.’”
and that Paul Deschamps would not be called
upon to pay the full penalty which he had
incurred for the crime of murder. He would,
instead, be transported for fourteen years to
his Majesty’s territory of New South Wales,
where he would be treated as a common crimi-
nal, rather than as a prisoner-of-war. He
was immediately removed from the midst of
his indignant companions and sent to a hulk
in the Thames to await transportation. ll.to
for several months he was herded with a
more villainous collection of blackguards and
ruffians than he had ever, in his worst dreams,
imagined to exist. It was in the beginning
of 1810, during the first months of the reign
of Governor Macquarie, that he arrived in
Port Jackson in the transport Leicester.
* * * $
Early in 1816 M. Deschamps was a mem-
ber of the iron-gang— not a very large gang—-
responsible for the maintenance of that sec-
tion of the Bathurst-road lying between Par-
ramatta and the eastern slopes of the Blue
Mountain?. Its headquarters were in a stock-
ade at Emu Plains, close to the right bank
of the Nepean River, and the dozen men
who composed it, guarded by a corporal and
four soldiers of the 4Gth Regiment, moved
up and down the highway to effect repairs at
whatever point such might be necessary.
Sometimes they toiled on the sun-swept foot-
hills of the ranges overlooking the wide and
fertile river flats in the neighborhood of Emu
Ford, and sometimes they camped for weeks
in the country about Prospect Hill, or on
South Creek, in little rough bark huts —the
soldiers had a tent- —which afforded them only
precarious shelter from the weather. It
was a probationary gang, the individual
members of which all had hopes of qualify-
ing before long for the blessed relief of a
tieket-of-leave. the possession of which would
materially add to their chances of gaining
an eventual condition of liberty, and was
the first step towards regaining the freedom
which, for various sufficient and insufficient
reasons, they had forfeited. Their overseer
was a brawny and truculent ex-convict
known as Big Bill —mne William Tarbutt, a
heavy-fisted man, whose main qualification
for the position was, as expressed by him-
self, a faculty for “keeping s in their
places.” If the said -s stayed decorously
where authority had put them, well and good,
and Big Bill was not unkind to them. But
if they required reminding of their rightful
position in society, Mr, Tarbutt was very
capable of so reminding them with convincing
forcefulness.
In a good-humored fashion the French
prisoner was something of a butt for soldiers
and prisoners alike —but not too much of a
butt. Soon after he had been sent to the
gang, he had oroken a companion’s head with
a stick for taking an unpardonable liberty,
and had been warmly commended by Big Bill
for having done so.
“You cows,” the overseer had re-
marked, “thinks a furriner ain’t ’uman. Well,
that’ll larn ye to treat tli’ Frog decent. If
that don’t larn ye, I’ll well larn ye.”
They knew the brand of “laming” Big
Bill was capable of imparting, and did not
greatly desire any demonstration of itj;
so the life of the Frog was permitted to be
more or less endurable, so far as the social
amenities of the unit of labor in which he
found himself were concerned.
But during the Napoleonic wars a French-
man, when not regarded as a ravening mad
dog only fit to be stoned and destroyed, was
looked upon as something foolish and futile,
wholly to be despised and reviled by all cap-
able of thinking coherently. Six French-
men, it had been definitely laid down by
British opinion, were hardly equal to one
Englishman, and although the convict popu-
lation of New South Wales did not ex-
uberantly love and admire the country which
had relegated it to its present position,
it was quite ready to join in the national
contempt for everything Gallic; and, since
a French “lag” was something of a rara
avis, it was inevitable that he would have a
good deal to endure in the way of chaff that
was more or less spiteful and malicious.
Early in his convict career Paul Deschamps
had learned that the only thing to do was
to endure it. But there were limits to his
patience, and the broken head of Chiswick
Charley had demonstrated the fact that it
was not wise to provoke him too far.
In January, 1816, when the news of
Waterloo arrived, all the philosophy and
patience which M, Deschamps possessed was
called into play, so that he might endure
the roasting that was inevitable. He stood
it well, but he was broken-hearted over the
terrible catastrophe that had overwhelmed
his god, Napoleon Bonaparte, and the mili-
tary prestige of his beloved country.
They were camped on the banks of Toon
gabbie Creek, when Corporal Simmons, hav-
ing been into Parramatta to collect the pay
of the little detachment under his command,
returned one evening with the momentous
intelligence. He brought with him a copy
of the Sydney Gazette, in which, by Gover-
nor Macquarie’s order, had been printed the
following letter from the Under-Secretary
for the Colonies, as well as such particulars
of Lord Wellington’s victory as the mail
which carried it had made available:—
Downing Street, 7th July, 1815.
Sit, —I am directed by Lord Bathurst to transmit
to you an Extraordinary Gazette of the 22nd
ultimo, detailing - a glorious and most important
Victory obtained over Bonaparte by the Allied Armies
under the command of the Duke of Wellington and
Prince Blucher, as well as a Gazette published this
morning announcing the Entrance of the Allies
into Paris.—l have, etc., HeSky Goulburn.
Seated on a log at the camp-lire, Paul Raoul
St. Antoine, his face drawn and white,
bravely endured the triumphant gibes of Big
Bill, Corporal Simmons, the three soldiers
who were not on sentry-go and his eleven
companions. He suffered silently, but he
suffered very bitterly.
“Now, Froggy, old man,” said Mr. Tarbutt
genially, “ye see wot comes o’ gettin’ Imp
agin th’ Dook? Boney’s met ’is master, that
’e ’as. I wonder wot they’ll do wi* th’
wretch now?”
“ ’E’ll get a firin’-party,” opined the cor-
poral. “Blime, I don’t doubt but wot Vs 'ad
it already. They won’t give ’im no second
chance.”
“Firin’-party!” interposed one of the
prisoners contemptuously. “No firin’-
party for im. They’ll scrag ’im artside
Noogate.”
M. Deschamps rose to his feet, and faced
the circle of his tormentors, sitting in the
ring of dancing firelight that lit the high
branches of the gum-trees overhead, and the
little row of bark gunyahs in the background.
He was very pale, and there were tears in
his eyes, but he bore himself manfully and
bravely.
“Nevaire,” he said, “has there been so
great a man. Un homme divine — incroyable.
I spit upon your Vellin’ton. Vive VEm-
pereur. Vive la Gloire!”
He stalked with folded arms towards his
little bark tent, and dived into the shelter
of its darkness. In the morning, Prisoner
Paul Deschamps, “No. 3402, per Leicester,
murder, 14 years,” was missing from the
road-gang so ably presided over by Big Bill
Tarbutt.
“Too much for th’ poor cow, that there
noos,” said Big Bill in a kindly fashion.
“Mos’ like Vs gorn and drowned ’isself.
Somethink like that.”
* * * %
His Excellency the Governor, Major-
General Macquarie, C. 8., testified to his
loyal appreciation of the news of Napoleon’s
downfall at Waterloo in several ways. He
gave an official dinner at Government House
to mark the great event, to which were in-
vited everybody who was anybody in New
South Wales in 1816. This was followed on
the same evening by a grand and imposing
ball held in one of the wards of the new
General Hospital in Macquarie-street, which
was easily the most magnificent function of
the sort hitherto held in Sydney. It took
place on January 18, in celebration, nomi-
nally, of her Majesty’s birthday, but was
undoubtedly inspired by the stirring event
in Europe, news of which had taken seven
months to travel round the world. He pub-
lished also a truly uplifting General Order,
done in the best Macquarie manner, and well
calculated to bring home to every reader of
the Gazette the significance of the epoch-
making event which had occurred on the
18th June of the previous year.
But the function in whose anticipation his
Excellency took most delight was a little
private gatherings—a “bucks’ ” party—which
took place at Government House a couple of
evenings after the great news had been re-
ceived, at which the commander of the ship
Fanny, who had brought it to New South
Wales, was an honored guest.
With the exception of the gallant seaman
referred to the guests were all military
officers of the higher ranks. Colonel Molle,
(Continued on page 58.)


atteries for all Purposes
e
Ww.
Q
fs
df
Extbedlronclab
BATTERIES
3
Ex(6e^Hroncla6
Cell, cut away to show
construction.
FOR ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
VEHICLES, TRUCKS, CRANES,
’BUS LIGHTING, etc.
FOR POWER STATIONS,
HOUSE & FARM LIGHT-
ING, MARINE LIGHTING,
WIRELESS & AUXILIARY
SERVICES.
%ux
CELLS
FOR TRAIN LIGHTING
AND VENTILATION.
xibe
THE LONG LIFE BATTERY
Type 3x C -13 -1 GL.
Suitable for running-board
mounting on most cars using a
6-volt system.
Voltage: 6 volts.
Dimensions: 7in. wide x 1 0 Jin.
long over lugs x 9fin.
bigh over lid.
Weight: 491 b.
Holding down bolts: Jin. diam.
FOR CAR STARTING, LIGHT-
ING, WIRELESS, TELEPHONE,
sd
The Products of the Chloride Electrical Storage Co., Ltd.,
are the result of 35 years’ specialised manufacturing
experience, and have achieved a world-wide refutation
for reliability and efficiency.
# Chlorite
ELECTRICAL STORAGE
COMPANY LIMITED
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS—
VICTORIA and TASMANIA— A. P. SUTHERLAND, Exide Service Station, Queen’s Bridge, 2 Maffra Street, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA UNBEHAUN & JOHNSTONE (W.A.). LTD., Radio House, 383-387 Murray Street, Perth.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— UNBEHAUN & JOHNSTONE, LTD., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND EXIDE BATTERY SERVICE (Q.), LTD., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
NFW SOUTH WALES GIBSON, BATTLE & CQ., LTD.. Hunt Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney
NEWTON & SMITH, Newcastle, Sub-Distributors.
NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS —
HOPE, GIBBONS, LTD., Wellington, Auckland and Christchurch.
CTP9S9.


Leva! Notices.
IN THE ESTATE of EMMA LAMBERT
late of. Clare in the State of South Aus-
tralia widow deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Deputy
Master of the Supreme Court of South Aus-
tralia has pursuant to the Trustee Act 1893
directed that GEORGE JOHNS a brother of
the deceased formerly of Armagh near Clare
in the State of South Australia laborer'and
last heard of as proceeding to Victoria in
about the year ISB6 and all persons claim-
ing through him to be entitled under the
intestacy of the abovenamed Emma Lambert
who died on the 10th April 192 G intestate
at Clare aforesaid are to send their full
Christian and surnames and addresses and
full particulars of their claims to PUBLIC
TRUSTEE Supreme Court House Victoria
Square Adelaide the administrator of the
estate of the deceased on or before the Ist
day of February 1929 otherwise they will
be excluded from the distribution of the
estate.,
Dated this 25th day of June 1928.
BADGER & HICKS,
44 Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
Solicitors for Public Trustee.
RE EDWIN CLARKE—DECEASED.
\Y/ILL any person knowing the where-
vv abouts of HARRIETT CLARKE,
formerly of Oatlands, in Tasmania, half-
sister of Edwin Clarke (also known as Edwin
Thomas Scallan and Edwin Scallan Powell),
please communicate with the Public Trustee,
Hobart.
Tenders.
Marine Board of Launceston,
Tasmania.
PUMPING PLANT.
T LENDERS are invited for the manufac-
ture, supply and delivery of one 16-inch
Gravel and Sand Pump, one 12-inch Water
Pump and one Capstan, all Electrically-
driven.
Specification, Form of Tender, may be ob-
tained from the undersigned on application
Tenders endorsed “Pumping Plant” and
addressed to the Master Warden, Marine
Board, Launceston, Tasmania, must reach
this office not later than Monday, the 13th
day of August, 1928.
GEO. S. MEREDITH,
Secretary.
Marine Board Offices,
Launceston,
30th June, 1928.
Missing Friends.
MISSING BENEFICIARY:
VjT/ILLIAM SCOTT, who it is understood
resided at Longreacli, Queensland, in
1915, and is a brother of Henry Scott, or
any person claiming through the said Wil-
liam Scott is requested to communicate
with the District Public Trustee, Masterton,
New Zealand.
TIM ANDERSON, late Atherton Table-
J land, communicate sister Upper Barron.
Important. Policy not paid.
Public Notices.
SYDNEY EUCHARISTIC CONGRESS
■pHE Accommodation during this period will be
unprocurable. Intending visitors should at once
make provision for this. We have arrangements with
many hotels and boarding-houses m and around
Sydney at tariffs to suit all pockets. These are filling
fast. For further information write to
ADVANCE ACCOMMODATIONS,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALASIAN ACCOMMODATION SPECIALISTS.
fs
GIVE YOUR BOY A
FAIR CHANCE.
For a small sum annually we pro-
vide him with a substantial banking-
account when he starts on his career.
Full particulars from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Ke 11
r
GKY
MAM*
WOULD
SPOIL
IT
WAINUT
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
MICK SIMMONS
“Australia’s Leading Suppliers
of Tobaccos and Smokers’
Sundries.”
y&Sl)
I.L/
Ft p\?^
The Famous
S.N.L. French Briars
The “S.N.L. Family” is made by one of
England’s oldest and foremost Pipe manu-
facturers. Selected French Briar Root,
flawless in make and finish.
Silver mounted, vulcanite
mouthpieces Each 6/6
Straight, silver push mouth-
piece Each 8/8
Bent, silver push mouth-
piece Each 8/6
C. 8.8. Briar Pipes
Smoke sweetly and season beautifully.
(C. 8.8. Shapes similar to S.N.L.)
Silver mounted, vulcanite
mouthpieces Each 3/6
Straight or bent, silver push
mouthpieces Each 5/-
PIPE GUARANTEE.
Should any C. 8.8. or S.N.L. Pipe crack or
burn, it will be instantly replaced, quite tree
Of charge. **»
/mam
JHPtiM* w
f/..... _
*» i i
' ’tSggip
Preferred by Connoisseurs!
Manuel Garcia Cigars
Of a rare and choice leaf, they
are unique in their excellence.
Perfectos Extra.
Box of 25 24/-
Golden Key
De Luxe Cigars
A very choice, ipild Cigar.
Box of 50 23/-
Box of 25 12/-
Box of 10 CJ/g
Price 1/9
Post Paid.
A Boon to Smokers!
“Taifun” Pocket
Lighter
A handy little pipe, cigar or cigar-
ette lighter that will save you time,
trouble and expense.
(Carriage Paid on all Smokers’ Requisites.)
Mick Simmons Ltd.
Headquarters:
720 Haymarket, Sydney.
AND AT BRISBANE.
commanding H. M. 46th Foot, took prece-
dence in voicing liis opinions after his Ex-
cellency, and the Major of Brigade, Major
An till; Captain Blake, adjutant of the 46th ;
and five of that battalion’s company com-
manders constituted the rest of the little
gathering.
It was enthusiastic and loquacious to a
degree. The Duke of Wellington, General
Picton, Lord Hill and Marshal Blucher
came in for the most fervent of eulogies.
The utmost good spirits prevailed, the wine
flowed freely, and the evening sped away in
a fashion entirely delightful to all concerned.
And then, with startling suddenness, at
half-past njne, came a most amazing inter-
ruption to the harmony of the evening.
“....And I think we may take it,”
Governor Macquarie was saying, “that this
glorious, this tremendous event marks the
beginning of a new era for all Europe—for
all the world, in fact. The overthrow of the
tyrant who has so long dominated every
European nation but our own will inaugurate
a condition of things that”
There was a sudden crash of breaking
glass, and a large and heavy missile struck
the centre of the dining-table, knocking over a
tall candelabrum, and bouncing against the
wall on the side of the room opposite to the
window through which it had been propelled
from without.
“Great Heavens !” The Governor broke off
his oration. “What on earth’s that?”
Antill, past whom the object had bounded
in unpleasant proximity, knocked his chair
over backwards as he turned to seek the
projectile that had leapt so suddenly into
the room. He picked it up.
“ ’Tis a brick, sir—a brick, your Ex-
cellency. And there’s a paper attached to it,
with something written on it.”
He laid the brick on the .table, whilst all
present crowded round to look at it, in
various degrees of startled curiosity.
“What is written on the paper, Antill?”
asked the Governor. “Read it, if you
please.”
Major Antill took a knife, and cut the
paper loose.
“Good Lord!” he said, with a smile.
Someone who doesn’t agree with the spirit
of our gathering has presented us with this.”
He held the paper up, so that all present
could read the large capitals in which it
was printed:
“Vive l’Emopereur—Vive la France!”
They looked from one to the other in
wonder, and then became aware of shouting
which appeared to come from the gravelled
drive leading up from the guard-room at the
gate of Government House grounds.
“Ha !” said Macquarie. “The guard has
evidently captured the fellow who threw this.
Go, please, Antill, and find what it’s ali
about. If they’ve got the thrower, have him
brought in. Most extraordinary !”
The Major was absent from the room
hardly a couple of minutes. Presently he
reappeared in the doorway leading on to the
verandah, and the light of the room shone
out upon, the red coats of a file of soldiers
who grasped a wild-looking, ragged man bv
either arm.
™~i? ome , lunatic > I think, your Excellency.
Will you have him inside?”
, 4.? es ’ 7 e ®’. We must get to the
bottom of this. Bring him in, please.”
The Major stepped aside, beckoning to the
soldiers. With an air of stiff and wooden
decorum they pushed before them into the
room the dishevelled figure of M. le Capitaine
I. aul Raoul St. Antoine Descliamps, latelv
ot the staff of Marshal Soult, in Spain. He
glared defiantly at the hated British uni-
forms surrounding him, and so far forgot
himself as to spit upon the carpet. Hatred
and rage convulsed his unshaven features.
But there was something triumphant in
them, too, such as a man might wear who
had uttered some noble protest against a
wrong.
“Who are you?” Macquarie asked him
sternly. Why have you done this?”
A volley of French, too rapid for the
understanding of such of those present as
were familiar with the language, was the
immediate response. The Governor held up
his hand, and the tattered prisoner checked
himself.
Anglais?” Macquarie asked
l ‘Oui, oui —yes, yes. I spik heem a leetle.”
Then tell me who you are, and what
this means, and why you have done such an
outrageous thing. Gome, now, my man—
explain yourself.”
M. Deschamps drew himself up.
“£te e i” j* e sai< ?. impressively, So that all
present had a realisation of a certain dignity
m the fellows bearing—“l am a soldier of
I ranee, Monsieur le Gouverneur, and I have
done thees thing for a protest. I have my
feehngs. Thees news is happiness to you
and thees gentlemans. To me it is disaster
IT un febacle. lou ask me why I have done
thees thing I make reply that I have done it
pour la Gloire- for the honor of France.
That ees all. You may do with me as you
please. Again I say eet— Vive VEmpereur /”
Macquarie stared at the strange object
between the soldiers for a moment or two
as though pondering something deeply. Then
he turned to his guests with a smile, and
some little air of apology.
“Gentlemen,” he said, “I fear that this—
this —ah—this. interruption has a little
marred the termination of our pleasant even-
ing. That it has, in fact, brought it to a
close. I am sure you will all acquit me of
any spirit of mhospitality when I beg you to
excuse a further continuance of our agreeable
gathering. I fear that I must bid you S
night. Antill, I wish you would remain—l
want you to assist me in coming to a con-
clusion as to what is t 0 he done in this—
in this very unfortunate affair.”
With many curious glances at the strange
interrupter of their debate upon the possi-
bilities and probabilities of Waterloo, Colonel
Molle and the other officers took their leave
of his Excellency. When they had gone Mac-
quarie turned to Major Antill. ’
“Major,” he said, “I think we might ask
our friend to take a chair—what say you?
There is something here that doesn’t quite
• —-how shall I put it? —meet the eye. If
the soldiers remained on the verandah, I
think that would do—don’t you?”
“I quite agree with you, your Excellency.
Wait outside, will you,” said Major Antill
to the two soldiers. He went across, and
took Deschamps by the arm. “Be seated, my
friend —the Governor wishes to speak to
you.”
“A glass of wine, Antill,” said Macquarie.
“Pray pour him out a tumblerful. He looks
as though he needed it.”
Perhaps more astonished than any of Mac-
quarie’s guests had been, Paul Raoul St.
Antoine found himself drinking the Gov-
ernor’s wine, seated at the Governor’s
table, whilst that grim autocrat regarded him
with a friendly air of kindliness such as he
had been long unused to. Still more aston-
ished was he when his host tilled a wineglass
for himself, and raised it towards him.
“To the health, my friend, of a great
soldier—to the health of Napoleon Bona-
parte ! To the health of a great man !”
“Merc*, Monsieur le Gouverncur,” mum-
bled the Frenchman, bending low.
“And now, my friend,” said Macquarie,
“perhaps your way with us this evening was
a little—-a little rough. But I understand
your feelings. You will be my guest to-night,
and to-morrow I will make inquiries about
you. If I give you a bed in the servants’
quarters you will give me your word not
to run away?”
With brimming eyes M. Deschamps nodded
his head.
“I wish to help you,” said the Governor
gently. “I will do what I can. I may be
able to find you employment in my personal
service. Antill, you may send the' soldiers
back to the guard-room. This is, perhaps,
not what I should do. but I think it may not
be a bad way of celebrating Waterloo. And
you, my friend—l feel for and respect
you.”
Paul Raoul St. Antoine Deschamps broke
down and wept.
Frija’s Heritage.
My brown-eyed mother loves the sun, and
summer’s yellow gleams;
How different are my dreams!
In time of blossoms I was born beside Aus-
tralian foam;
The Bush surrounds my home
That never yet was home to me, for all its
shelter true;
Because my eyes are blue.
My father left me but a child, yet I remember
well
What I could dimly spell;
His moods of sudden looking back, of slipping
far away
To some remote, dear day,
The nameless yearning in his gaze that set
my own ashine,
His eyes were blue like mine.
Azure of ice in our cold eyes, so willing to
be cold,
And, even mine, so old!
Paleness of snow in our fine skin that
found the sun to be
An ardent enemy.
How long ago, dead father, did some grand-
sire wander forth
Prom our ancestral north?
He left us sad and mocking wealth of visions
and regret,
Desires unanswered yet.
Where grass is brown and bronze-leafed
gum-trees quiver in the heat
Of soft air ferny-sweet,
I am athirst for wakeless seas whose emerald
waters show
Among the fissured floe;
For snowfields under other stars, resplen-
dent winter nights
Ablaze with northern lights
That shoot athwart black velvet skies with
hissing spurts and creaks
As though a wizard speaks;
For winds from alabaster hills whose crowns
are carven clear
In loveliness austere.
Could I but tread one beach again, a curving.
cliff-locked strand,
And on its frozen sand
Know a calm, curious happiness, a sense of
home-at last,
Where the spent currents cast
Gifts from the south, smooth amber gouts,
and tiny horns and bells
Of claret-colored shells——
Could I but drink from Thor’s own cup the
deathless vintage rare
Of that thin, magic air.
Strong, pure, and bright unspeakably—l
would be brave enough
For roads sharp-set and rough,
Instead of dragging pretty chains of empty
smiling days
Along an exile’s ways.
Through this warm wattle gold I bear a
heart that burns to meet
The names of snow and sleet,
The names of every ringing note of winter s
frigid rage,
Even in a printed page—
Wild chords of vast, pearled silences clashed
harmonies of gales
Through icebergs’ splintered sails.
Dark, wistful beauty of the north' Its
grand and gloomy sway
Commands my love to-day
High, silvery beauty of the north' Its
secrets vague, unknown,
Are, even so, my own.
White mem’ries, white uplifts of dream
fierce, white imaginings ’
Tug at my soul like wings.
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.


Black Magic.
A STORY OF THE DARK MYSTERIES OF NEW GUINEA, BY “TAUWARRA."
DAVENTRY was one of the Old Brigade.
His memory went back through . the
years to the days when New Guinea
was a hell of; malaria and dysentery and
blackwater; when carnage and endless bloody
tribal war devastated the coast; when the
civil service was a skeleton corps of rum-
puzzlers and inspired geniuses, and the land
had not yet been made safe for company
promoters. He had learned to think black
before callow patrol-officers had made a
catchword of that blessed phrase; he had
suffered, endured, battled and triumphed,
and would have been surprised and more
than a little amused if lie had known how
we youngsters regarded him. In any other
service his name would have appeared in an
Honors List, among the Companions of an
Order barred to the politicians and the
profiteers and the limelight-lovers. As it is,
he owns a poultry-farm somewhere m New
South Wales and counts himself amongst
the lucky ones. For such is “New Guinea
fashion.”
* * * *
It is at sundown, when gold and vermilion,
crimson and vivid green quiver over the
face of the sea, when the jungle-covered foot-
hills stand out in jagged silhouette against
the irradiated sky, and the air is sickly-
sweet with the perfume of growing things,
that the spell of New Guinea, its magic,
its mysterious lure, lays hold of a man s
soul. Daventry must have sensed what was
passing in my mind, for he, too, fell silent,
and together we watched the sun drop like
a great ball of liquid fire over the edge of
the world. . ,
Towards the northern horn of the bay a
grove of cocoa-palms swung their tufted
heads to the lilt of the land breeze.
“Morrison’s place —abandoned now,
Daventry said at last. “Did you know Mor-
rison, by the way?” . „ _
I shook my head. “Before my time, I
answered. Something stirred in my memoiy..
“Wasn’t he the bird who was bedevilled by
some pourri-pourri man [sorcerer], got the
wind up and had to clear out?”
Daventry eyed me queerly. ‘ Something
of the sort,” he conceded. “He cleared out
all right, but I don’t think he got the wind
up. Whatever else Morrison might have
been he was no cocktail.”
He crammed a shred of trade tobacco into
his pipe and presently a tenuous wreath
of pungent smoke curled above his head.
“Morrison was a tliick-thewed, red-
bearded giant of a man, nearer forty than
thirty,” he went on. “Normally a good-
natured, likeable fellow, but given to periods
of black depression and ungovernable temper.
It was the solitude, the stark loneliness of
New Guinea, that drove Morrison in upon
himself; that got him down in the end ; that
thrust him into ways that uncomprehend-
ing moralists deplore, and old hands condone
or explain by a shrug of the shoulders.
Morrison’s trouble was women.
“We used to spend our week-ends to-
gether, swap books and papers and gramo-
phone records, and as he never thrust his
lady friends upon me, we became good pals.
“Then he fell in with Sisiona, fell foul
of Akodari the One-eyed Sorcerer, and set
in motion a sequence of events that, perhaps,
some of you young anthropologists-cwm-
lawyers may be able to explain.” For a
second Daventry’s eyes twinkled, then
instantly he was grave. “Sisiona wa!s
young and lissome, light-skinned and lus-
trous-eyed, the kind of untamed, unspoiled
native girl one rarely meets outside the
covers of Yankee magazines. She was on
Morrison’s verandah, swinging her grass kilts
from side to side, digging her bare toes into
the crevices in the palm floor, wriggling 111
horrible embarrassment, when I bowled up
the steps.
“My unannounced appearance, seemed to
take Morrison aback. ‘Meet Sisiona, R.M.,
he said a little defiantly. Tm going to
marry her —New Guinea fashion.
“ ‘Then you’ll be a fool,’ I answered him
sharply. I hated to see a fellow of Mor-
rison’s calibre openly and unashamedly em-
bracing the easy tenets of the combo’s creed.
“ ‘No sickening sermons, old chap,’ Mor-
rison retorted, but his eyes refused to meet
mine. ‘Where’s your broadmindedness, your
tolerance, your’
“‘I hope you’ve squared the girl s rela-
tions,’ I cut in. ‘To my own knowledge
she’s promised to old Akodari’s nephew.
Already pigs have changed hands, presents
have been made and a day appointed for the
wedding-feast. You’re simply asking for
trouble, Morrison.’
“Sisiona looked distinctly uneasy when
she heard Akodari’s name. He was a very
cunning, very puissant sorcerer. By the
casting of spells and the muttering of incan-
tations lie could blight men’s gardens and
make their wives unfaithful; he could control
the elements, bend the powers of good and
evil, life and death to his will; and by
playing on the credulity of the village people,
and judiciously blending blackmail, intimi-
dation and extortion with the hocus-pocus of
his unholy trade, he had contrived to make
himself a power in the land and a thorn in
the side of the district magistrates. Ako-
dari was a thoroughly bad hat.
“Sisiona disappeared into the back regions.
Morrison, still sulky, was fiddling aimlessly
with a whisky decanter and muttering in
his beard. Suddenly a long, piercing scream
of terror brought us up all-standing.
Simultaneously we dashed to the rear. A
shrivelled-skinned old man of unspeakably
villainous aspect had Sisiona by the hair.
His sound eye glared balefully upon her, his
free hand brandished a mummified infant's
hand and a torrent of vile abuse poured from
his betel-stained lips, Morrison’s house-
boys were huddled under the kitchen quaking
in gibbering fear. Sisiona’s comely face was
grey and strained, and after that first wild
scream she was whimpering like a child in
pain. .
“A berserk rage took possession of Morri-
son. I could see his beard quivering, see
purple veins swelling and knotting on his
forehead, but his eyes were like ice. He tore
Sisiona free, grabbed Akodari by the scruff
of the neck and tbe slack of bis ragged rami,
and flung him bodily into the garden. For
a moment be lay there, inert, helpless. Then
he stirred, and lifted his head like a snake
about to strike. His sightless eye seemed to
stand out in his head like a ghastly white
marble; but the other was a glinting, evil,
inhuman pool of malignity. Slowly> delibe-
rately, he raised a hand and pointed a quiver-
ing talon at Morrison. , , lT
“ ‘All right, Morrison,’ he croaked. i
savee you: you savee me.’ A smear of grey
foam dribbled from the corners of his mouth.
‘Bymebye we see!’ „ ,
“ ‘That’ll do, Akodari,’ I called out. iou
clear out, quick time, s’pose you no wantem
big trouble.’ n , T
“Akodari ignored me utterly. By bod, I
show you somet’in’, Morrison!’ he shrieked.
‘Soon I send one big fella devil-devil into
your belly, Morrison. Another kind devil.
Morrison made a quick step towards lnm.
‘Soon he will come, Morrison, to eat you up,
to claw and scratch and tear; to-
“ Morrison took a flying-leap down the
steps. Akodari twisted like an eel into the
long grass and the next moment he was
“It sounds absurd. I know, but to me it*
seemed that the familiar jungle sounds were
suddenly muted; that all, nature stood st 11,
waiting, breathless; that in the very air was
a contagion of evil.
“The next day I placed Akodari under
arrest, charged him with sorcery under the
Native Regulations, and gave him six months
on general principles. ... t nr
“Official duties kept me on the station toi
the next few weeks. I was, I .remember,
engaged in a long-distance duel with a long-
since superannuated mandarin at headquart-
ers who had reduced procrastination to an
art and obstruction to an exact science, an
whose typewriter was a weapon of offence.
I forget whether I beat him or he beat me
or the high gods declared it a draw, but in
the meantime Akodari weeded the station
trarden and kept the barracks clean, tie
seemed glad to have me about the place,
saluted me most punctiliously, and made it
clear that, far from bearing malice, he held
me in high esteem. I can see- him now, a
dingy white rami sprinkled with broad
arrows belted about his scraggy loins swing-
ing a yard-long scrub-knife, while the hard-
bitten warders edged round him warily, feai-
ful lest his shadow should fall athwart them,
torn between simple faith in the mighty
magic of the Government uniform and desire
to flee from him as from the Devil.
“I did not see Morrison
for several weeks. Some-
how, the fact that he had
definitely ‘gone native’ had
aroused in me a repulsion
of which I was half ashamed.
Then, one day, in response
to a pressing invitation to
call, I went over to his place.
It was late afternoon, and
he was still in not over-clean
pyjamas. Perhaps I imagined
that his beard was unkempt,
his hair dishevelled, his skin
pouchy and his manner a
little furtive; quieter, less
self-assured. Sisioua slunk
off as we shook hands. Slunk
is the word. She was garbed
in a shapeless cloak that
trailed on the ground; she
wore a profusion of gid-
crack jewellery, garish glass
beads and high-heeled shoes
that gave a glimpse of white
cotton stockings, soiled,
wrinkly. She was slipshod,
drab, blousy; every line of
her proclaimed the native
girl become a white man’s
‘woman.’
“We drowsed away the
hot hours talking of many
things. • Twilight commenced to flush
the western sky; crickets shrilled, frogs
piped and trumpeted, and we heard the drum-
ming of an old-man cassowary somewhere in
the bush. I rose to go. Morrison tapped a
gong, and the cookhoy brought drinks.
“I lifted my glass. ‘Here’s how!’ I pledged
him.
“There was no answer from Morrison. I
looked at him in surprise. He had slumped
forward in his chair; his face was grey, his
eyes wide-staring, glassy, and his- forehead
glistened with sweat. Then he started
violently. I could hear the tumbler clattering
against’ his teeth as he gulped the whisky
I poured for him. The raw spirit seemed to
steady him, and presently he laughed in an
embarrassed sort of way.
“ ‘Had a queer turn, R.M.,' lie said, look-
ing away from me. ‘Too much quinine and
not enough exercise plays the very devil
with a man.’
“I received his pitiful explanation with a
smiie. I had a very genuine regard for him,
and going home through the scented dusk I
knew despondency. Native women and the
solitary, secret bottle; apathy of mind and
apathy of body, a gradual sapping of the will,
an abandonment of the little things that keep
white men white —New Guinea was getting
Morrison at last, as she has got so many
other good fellows.
“I saw nothing of him during the days
that followed. I buried myself in my work,
permitted myself to think of my next leave
and thanked the Lord that I could still mind
my own business.
“One morning I was holding court. The
heat was intense. The sun beat intolerably
upon the corrugated-iron roof, and the atmo-
sphere of the court-room was like the interior
of a hot-house. I was hot and clammy,
jumpy, fretful and irritable, and the inter-
preter was inconceivably stupid. The case
was one of those interminable, insoluble civil
actions concerning the disputed ownership of
a pig. Knowing with certainty that both
parties were lying, I sat and sweated, while
the oily voice of the interpreter became a
maddening exasperation, and desire to boot
him into the compound a temptation not to
be endured. , „ ,
“Abruptly I adjourned court and fled.
“Morrison was at the residency. I was
conscious of a feeling of shock as he hauled
himself out of a lounge and put out his hand.
It seemed to me that his clothes did not fat
him • his skin had that greenish-yellow tinge
one associates with long-neglected fever, and
his eyes were dull and lifeless, lie but
the shell of his former self. Over lunch I
tried to reason with him. I urged him to
take a pull, to cut out the booze and get
back to work, and, above all, to pack that
woman of his back to her village.
“ ‘l’m sending the whaler to Samarai for
the mail this afternoon,’ I wound up. Why
not go in with her 7 Have a few days spell
and get the M.O. to put you on a scientific
quinine ration ; tone yourself up with some
hard tennis—health is 5 everything m this
sweet country, old man.’ .
“‘I think perhaps you re right, K.M., he
replied slowly. ‘Jolly good of you to ofter me
a passage. I’ll think it over.’ His voice
cracked, beads of moisture sprang out ou
his face, and he shook as if by a blow from
something invisible. The next moment he
was bent double in his chair, gasping and
choking in a paroxysm of pain. As I jumpe 1
up Morrison sank back, the tension of Ins
muscles relaxed, and momentarily his eyes
closed.
“ ‘i'll —i’ll take your advice, Daventry, he
whispered. ‘I feel—feel—rotten !’
“Strangely enough, Morrison walked down
to the landing with his chin tilted and his
shoulders squared. The mere prospect of a
changed environment was sufficient to make
a new man of him. He elbowed his way
through the little knot of station natives
crowded about the whaleboat, swearing at
them with fluent impartiality, and made
himself comfortable in the sternsheets under
the awning. The boat’s-crew gave way. Mor-
rison half-turned, waving his hand, and even
as he did so the natives ashore uttered a
yell and fled for the bush. I heard Morrison
call out, but the import of his words eluded
me. His voice lifted on a hysterical note,
and suddenly I had an unpleasant feeling
a creepy feeling. I turned quickly, and I
understood why the natives had cleared out.
WAIT FOR AGE.
UNCLE W ILLIAM: “I’ve just been talking to that pleasant
Miss Richams. She tells me she reached twenty-
three yesterday and had a birthday party”
ONE OF HIS DISBELIEVING NIECES: “Did you ask what
had been delaying her, Uncle?”
Akoclari the Sorcerer was strolling slowly
across the shingle. There was something
hateful, menacing, devilish in his unhurried
progress to the landing. He halted at the
water’s edge and glared at Morrison’s back.
“ ‘You savee me, Morrison,’ he screamed.
‘I savee you.’
“I found myself struggling to overcome a
feeling of repulsion and nausea that swept
through me. I had an inexplicable impres-
sion that something infinitely evil was to-
ward, something that I was unable to fore-
see, powerless to avert. Akodari’s eye was
fixed unblinkingly upon the whaleboat now
jerking forward with frantic speed.
“ ‘You no forget, Morrison. Bymebye’—
“Something snapped in my brain, and T
struck him across the mouth with the back
of my hand. What held me from wringing
his neck I don’t know, but at that moment
the head warder came up. Fearfully and
reluctantly he took Akodari by the elbow.
I could hear the poor fellow’s teeth chatter-
ing as he led the pourri-pourri man away.
“The whaler was back in less than a week
bringing me a cheerful scrawl from Morrison.
It was -written on B.P. notepaper. The
doctor had found nothing much amiss witli
him save nerves and an enlarged spleen
and deranged liver and the other concomi-
tants of repeated malaria. He had advised
Morrison to take a short trip south, and
had recommended him to some big Macquarie-
streot man —thought it a good plan to have
a second opinion and suggested something
about an X-ray examination. Morrison was
in high fettle. He enclosed a tenner and
asked me to pay-off Sisiona, and concluded
with a facetious greeting to his friend the
One-eyed Sorcerer.
“I was conscious of immense relief. I
realised that Morrison’s affair had been
worrying me to an incredible degree, that
my imagination had been running amok, that
I had been harboring thoughts that had no
right in the brain cells of a pukka white
man. And Akodari continued to pull weeds
and ply his millet broom and salute me with
exaggerated ceremony whenever I appeared
on the verandah. One day I threw him the
information that Morrison would soon return.
“ To, taubada !’ he exclaimed in courteous
admiration. ‘White man savee too much.’
He chuckled softly, eyeing me speculatively,
appraisingly; his expression changed, the
chuckle became a burst of jeering, cackling
laughter, and he sidled away under the
house.
“The next mail brought me another letter
from Morrison. He had met a girl, it seemed,
and was well advanced into the incoherent,
blithering stage. The weeks slipped by, and
I did not hear from my friend again. In
his new-found happiness he had given New
Guinea best, I thought, and in a way I
was glad.
“Then dysentery swept through the station
carrying off Akodari and many a better man
than he. My lads refused to touch the
sorcerer’s body, and I was compelled to bury
him myself.
“There is not much more to tell. The
Merrie England dropped a mail one day.
Among the pile of official envelopes was one
bearing a Sydney postmark, addressed in a
strange, obviously feminine hand. I have
the letter yet —somewhere.”
Daventry paused, fumbling with his pipe.
“Morrison, it appeared, had died under the
anaesthetic. The doctors were operating for
cancer.”
“But good God, Daventry!” Even to
myself, my voice sounded like a squeak. “You
don’t —don’t believe that a filthy old nigger
pourri-pourri man actually”
Daventry stood up, tapping out the dottle
of his pipe. “I’m damned if I know,” lie
said.
The Prize Story Competition.
The following entries for The Bulletin
Prize Story Competition have been received
in addition to the list published last week:
“The Greatest Power,” by “Solitaire”;
“Tall Timbers,” by “Bunbury”; “Spinners,
All,” by “Nora M.”; “The Eternal Flame,”
by “Gleo”; “Stella of the Ranges,” by “Rain-
bow” ; “The Mascot and the Hoodoo,” by
“Jack Nelson”; “The Leopard’s Spot/’ by
“Cui Bono”; “The Outcasts,” by Belle-
rive”; “The House that Jack Built,” by
“Ragged Blossom”; “Jenifer,” by “Joan
Goodman Forrest” ; “The Orchard of Hell
bv “San Fran”; “The Sign of the Purple
Bells,” by Manson Law”; “Lo Sen,” by
“Douglas Brian” ; and “Tried and True” and
“Through Clouds to Sunshine,” by Con-
gtjjxiCC* "
Two manuscripts uncompleted, “The
White Dingo,” by “Toll Bar,” and “The
Revolt of Pollie,” by “A.W.,” have also
been received.
Sealed envelopes bearing the names and
addresses of the writers of the following
entries are awaited: “The Land of Sun-
shine, by “The Spider”; “Gentlemen at
Gyang Gyang.” by “Australian Born ; Up
the Country,” by “Squatter ; Calamity
Cavern,” by “Efbee”; “Iby and I, by U-
K. Lyptus.” . t
The following stories are without no ms
de plume: “Ben Tainbo” and The Beloved
Country.” .
The first chapters of the prize story will
be published in The Bulletin on Sept. 5.
Windy Nocturne.
Day, lately dead amid the smoke of sunset,
Flings a pale moon, above the slated roofs.
I hear the rush of wings, the whispered
singing,
The pounding goat-god hoofs.
Mysterious light! Trees glimpsed through
veils of amber
Are ghostly, ghostly. Evil is abroad.
Winds scatter odors from a secret cabinet
Where wizardry is stored.
The witches ride the piled clouds bravely,
blowing
Wild laughter down the sky like a falling
star.
All joy is lost in the shadows, and I am
crying
For things remote and far.
N.S.W.
BETTY RIDDELL.
The Farmhouse on the Ridge.
Drumming, drumming on its roof,
Streaming down its walls,
Itound the farmhouse on the ridge
A chill rain falls.
Through the orchard blows a wind,
Cutting, cold and swift,
While before it, torn and tossed,
The dead leaves drift.
Minding not the drenching rain
Or the leaves a-whirl,
At the farmhouse door there stands
A red-shawled girl.
Though before her lies a scene
Lone and lorn as death,
Winter’s wrath she does not feel,
But spring's kind breath.
Tortured trees she does not see
Studding slope and spur,
But a horseman bold who comes
With love for her.
Minding not the drenching rain,
Nor the leaves a-whirl,
What is it she hearkens to,
That red-shawled girl?
’Tis not crashing limbs she hears,
Nor the cry of birds,
But a voice that speaks to her
In sweet, soft words.
Sure she knows, that red-shawled girl,
Eyes with memory lit,
That the gold of spring has gone....
And love with it.
With the spring, things born of spring,
Such as blossoms red,
Such as love, does she not know
Are dead.... all dead ?
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Boom Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
tIQUBUB
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean , Soft and Mellow
Shipped by
WM. GRANT & SONS, LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm of Scotch Whisky Distillers.
take
fORMAHINT
The Germ-hilling Threat tablets
Of all Chemiat » “■ 3/6 per bottle.
YO! HO! and KIDNEY STEW!
by W Graeme-Holder
WE were a motley crowd aboard the
old Star of Java, representative of
all the sea-going races on the face of
the earth, and our principal topics of con-
versation were women and booze, both of
which we discussed with a freedom not to
be found anywhere but in a tramp’s fo’c’s’le.
Had we not been honest seamen of the
twentieth century we might have been as
godless a crowd of pirates as ever helped
.Spaniards to the Great Beyond. Fortune
and the Congregational leanings of the
Old Man kept us to the narrow way of
modern commerce, and we handled dates or
guano, frozen mutton or coal with a classic
indifference, leaving al! matters of piracy in
the capable hands of the owners, who sat at
mahogany desks in Poplar.
As sailors go, we were a happy lot, con-
fining our fighting to the fo’c’s’le, and fling-
ing the debris on to the fore-hatch to re-
cover or not, as the case might be. Usually
this debris consisted of trimmers or firemen ;
for we who breathed the upper air, and
wasted our talents in the ranging of anchor-
chains and six-inch hawsers, were more
than a match for the stokehold, the benefits
of whose coal-lieaving exercise were more
than counterbalanced by the heat of the
roaring furnaces.
Besides, we of the port-watch numbered
among us two mighty warriors, Norway
Jack, a Viking who had been left over, and
Winter, a scowling-visaged Austrian, who
backed up his bullying propensities with
very real science and undoubted courage.
Both above the average in height and bulk,
they were as different in temperament as
chalk and cheese. Norway thrust himself
into the quick affections of the crew by liis
natural cleanliness of body and soul, liis
love of fair play and clean singlets ; and even
those who had occasion to get in the way of
one of his mighty blows bore him no malice,
for, unlike Winter, he struck only with his
hands, and then always above the belt.
Limitations of language made of Norway
a silent man, and his leisure was divided
between the manufacture of multi-colored
woollen daisy mats and the modelling of
microscopic sailing-ships which eventually
made port in whisky flasks. The least in-
< med to violence of all the crew, there was
not one member, from the captain down, who
cared to rouse his ire. His quick sympathy
and happy ■ chuckle, his ready if" clumsy
wit, and his breezy good-humor were the
leaven of the grimly godless fo’c’s’le; while,
as look-out on a stormy night, with the wind
whistling through his long hair, his blue
eyes peering into the seething blackness,
his magnificent physique outlined in wind-
flattened oilskins, lie typified the very spirit
of defiant manhood. Such a man is naturally
a king in the riff-raff of humanity which
falls into a fo’c’s’le as dead leaves are swept
into a drain, and Norway held his sceptre
with a simple dignity and a secret wonder.
Such a man can never be without some
enemy, some rival; and a barmaid in Can-
ning Town sent him Winter. She had spent
las money and called him a Dago, and. when
Winter foolishly tried to explain that Dagos
did not grow in Austria, she had retorted
that it was a pity they didn’t, because they
were infinitely better than the samples slic’d
met of what did grow there. Then Winter
decided to go back to sea, where he would
be understood.
He had come aboard at the Albert Docks
three hours before the Star of Java was due
to sail, and had stamped into the fo’c’s’le
full of spite and beer. All the rest of the
deckhands were aboard, and the usual
scramble for bunks had petered out, while
those men who were not required on deck
lay curled-up in varying degrees of inebria-
tion, waiting and dreading the bos’n’s
“Shake-a-leg!” which would announce the
moment of departure and hard work. Winter
glared ferociously around, and returned no
answer at all to the facetious greetings.
He spat on the only available bunk, the
lower one near the door, and with a strength
which marked him as no usual man, lifted
Ginger Morgan from the choicest couch,
hurled that very surprised and indignant
gentleman in a heap on to the deck, and
deposited his own vicious bulk on the nicely-
warmed blankets of the fiery-headed son
of Birmingham. His only answer to Ginger’s
profane protests was a kick in the face; and
tlie victim retired to the lower bunk by the
door, spitting teeth and threats of vengeance.
We were uninterested—-we had heard it all
before. And Norway slept the stertorous
sleep of the very-drunk.
The act was typical of Winter, and when
we were sober we looked upon him with
disfavor. The fact that he was a real sea-
man, who could scramble to the main-truck
without effort or shock to his nerves, did
little to counteract the bad impression;
and the fact that the bos'n had chosen both
Norway and Winter for the port watch, and
had drafted a prime lot of nonentities into
the starboard watch, earned for him the ex-
pressive title of “Thickhead.”
Four days out, at about three bells of our
first watch below, Norway cat-footed into
the fo’c’s’le, softly shut tlie door, lifted his
jersey and unwrapped about three yards of
sausages from his torso, and amid the silent
wonder of the perpetually-hungry sailors,
unearthed a small frying-pan from his sea-
chest, and with Ginger’s assistance as stoker
cooked a savory and most unexpected
supper for a grateful watch. On this his-
toric occasion T established an undeserved
reputation for unusual intelligence by going
on deck and putting the plug in the fo’c’s’le
“‘Men,’ he said, and secured immediate attention, 'there is a thief aboard this ship.
Quite a number of you must know who he is, for no one man would eat ten
pounds of sausages by himself.’”
ventilator so that the perfume of frying
sausages should not distract the look-out
from his duties and so endanger the safety
of the boat. The sausages were a decided
success, Norway cooked them with a delicacy
of _ touch which argued a long apprentice-
ship as an unlicensed purveyor of smoking
small-goods to a fore-mast clientele; while
Winter juggled a hot sausage in either hand,
and breathed appreciation and envy. He
wondered why he had not himself thought
of purloining the sausages, and so estab-
lishing dominion over the mercenary souls
of his watch-mates, and he met Norway’s
friendly smiles with a disparaging grunt.
On the following morning the cook had a
few words to say. It might be more in
keeping with the truth to say that he had
quite a lot of words to say ; and the care-
less way in which he strung them together
did surprisingly little to rob them of
virulence* He flourished a piece of stout
wire which had been roughly bent into a
long book, and with this he demonstrated to
an admiring ship’s company how it was pos-
sible for a person of criminal propensities
to extract sausages from between the slats
of the “butcher’s cage”—a commodious meat-
safe, with sides of three-inch wmoden slats
spaced about an inch and a half apart, anil
having a heavily padlocked door in which
the morrow’s meat for officers and men
was placed to thaw out. With the true
artist’s pride in his own perceptions, the
cook explained in detail liow he had found
the wire carelessly thrown inside the galley,
and had immediately assumed that the
sausages were gone—lie knew, by the small
particle of sausage meat which clung to the
bent end, that a thief had been abroad, ami
he had immediately notified the- officers’
mess that sausages would be off. His
caustic denouncement of the thief, or
thieves, unknown, was a masterpiece of
vituperation, and we enjoyed it accordingly.
Norway edged as close-to him as possible,
and the expression on the Scandinavian’s
face was, one of painful unbelief. The
mere thought that such a sinister presence
as a sausage thief could be walking the
Star of Java cut him to the soul, and ne
even suggested that the cook was either a
liar or himself the thief. The cook retali-
ated with a biting reference to the age-old
thieving propensities of square-heads gener-
ally, and what looked like the prelude to
a notable duel was rudely interrupted by
the clear and cutting tones of the Old Man,
who had assembled the ship’s company and
was standing with the first and third officers
on the after bridge.
“Men,” he said, and secured immediate
attention, “there is a thief aboard this ship.
Quite a number of you must know who he is.
for no one man would eat ten pounds of
sausages by himself. I suspect one of the
seamen ; as the firemen and trimmers received
black-pan in the first watch, they would have
no inducement to petty theft of this nature.
I want you to decide to prevent a repetition
of the offence. The port watch were below
during the first watch last night, and it is
my opinion that a member of that watch
is the thief!”
The cook was distinctly heard to matter
something about a blood-stained square-head,
and it was something of a surprise to us that
Winter, from his place in the background,
did not run true to our conception of his
form and publicly tell what he knew. How-
ever, he maintained a sullen silence, while
the rest of the watch gazed in injured inno-
cence at the bridge and one another; and the
starboard watch assumed an air of virtue
which sat uncomfortably upon them.
The Old Man continued in level tones:
“Simpson, of the port watch”—he stared
hard at me—“placed the plug in the fo’c’s’le
ventilator shortly after three bells, and in
these latitudes such an action lends itself
to suspicion. Now. let me tell you, men,
the next time anything is missing from that
cage somebody finishes the voyage in irons!
Make no mistake about it! Carry on, and
watch yourselves—especially the port
watch!”
We had commenced to drift back to our
duties or pleasures when the captain cried
out : “Bos’n, take two men and cover the
inside of the cage with fowl-netting. There
are three rolls of it in the lamp-room.” And,
as an afterthought: “Better put two layers
on while you are at it!”
Norway followed the cook to the galley,
and fi’om the outside of the door made
sundry uncomplimentary remarks on the
travesty which went by the name of cooking
on the Star of Java, and incidentally men-
tioned that if any “spud-peeling dock-rat”
blamed the port watch for any more of this
despicable and petty thieving, he would have
to account for it to Olaf Johansen, of Norge,
personally; then, with a cheery wish for:the
eternal happiness of the “galley-rat,” he
went back to his chip-hammer, and spent, a
lazy morning pretending to tap the paint
from the starboard davits.
I soppose the fowl-netting was the direct
incentive to the assaults on the “black-pan, ’
for, having had a brief taste of high living,
the port watch was reluctant to forego any
opportunity for the supplementing of its
meagre menu; and so it came about that
Norway turned his foraging to the despoiling
of those who had quarters on the opposite
side of the fore-peak passage.
"Black-pan” is the name bestowed on the
collection of scraps from the officers’ table,
warmed in a stout “kidd” or meat-dish for
the delectation of the stokehold staff when
they come off duty at four bells —ten o'clock
shore time. It is a dainty supper which has
been the prerogative of firemen and trim-
mers since such people had their being; and,
incidentally, it has led to some of the most
enthusiastic scrimmages between the upper
and lower decks which history records; for
the callow trimmer seems to delight in waft-
ing delicious smells to the nostrils of hungry
deckhands and rousing in them the primi-
tive passion for prey, thereby bringing down
upon himself, in some dark corner en route
from galley to fo’c’s’le, the carnivorous
animal which is man.
Norway developed the humorous habit of
waiting for the black-pan, concealing himself
close to the foot of the narrow gangway
which led from the deck to the fore-peak
passage, and which served alike the fire-
men’s and seamen’s quarters. Having the
eye of a lynx and the strength of an ox, he
would judge the moment when the unfor-
tunate trimmer would be feeling carefully
for the next step, and preserving an unsteady
balance with the fragrant kidd in his hands.
Reaching up suddenly, with a sharp, dex-
terous jerk Norway would assist the motion
of both ship and trimmer; and he would be
standing inside the closed door of the sea-
men’s quarters with the steaming dish in his
hands before the unfortunate trimmer had
sorted himself out from spilled gravy and
surprise.
An unfortunate first experience, when the
aggrieved trimmer had roused his mess-mates
and rescued the kidd from a sanguinary
battle, had taught us that quick action was
necessary in these instances; and Norway’s
abrupt entrance was always the signal for a
barricading of the door and a bodily rush
at the black-pan. The momentary scramble
for titbits could only be likened to a vigor-
ous scrum, with Norway as referee; and the
chances were that, if some lucky wight cap-
tured a leg of chicken, he would also cap-
ture a number of well-placed contusions
before he was left in undisputed possession.
Norway, as master of ceremonies, would first
annex the choicest morsels, and then take
up a position by the besieged door, between
mouthfuls discoursing with unction on the
deliciousness of that particular night’s black-
pan. and commenting on the unworthiness
of firemen and trimmers generally; finally,
having wiped his fingers on someone else’s
blankets, he would open the door and politely
inquire of the stokehold crew the reason
for such unseemly disturbance at such an
unreasonable hour. More often, than not
the answer would be an accurately-thrown,
soaking and unspeakably foul sweat-rag, and
immediately thereafter the passage to the
forepeak would be a mass of fists, feet and
profanity.
Later, when Norway would betake him-
self to his well-earned rest, his broad Nor-
wegian countenance wreathed in innocent
smiles, he never failed to rouse Winter and
give him the details of the battle, explain-
ing that he was very foolish to prefer wiping
out the kidd with a piece of bread to the
joy of pristine combat. Winter’s remarks
were appropriate, but impolite; and at every
repetition his hatred of his rival would in-
ci’ease another couple of notches.
For all that, Winter did not advance his
cause for royal honors by secretly informing
Flat-face Laud, second officer, of the pro-
posed attempt on tin; black-pan the night
before we reached the Cape. We did not
look kindly upon a traitor even though his
treachery was prompted by bodily suffering.
Two nights previously Winter had, by reason
of his bulk, secured a complete fowl from
the black-pan, and as he lay gnawing at it
in his bunk, Norway had leaned over and
taken it from between his teeth and graci-
ously presented it to Ginger, whose lack of
(Continued on page 57.)


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
(Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
CaViital Paid Up and Reserves .. -.. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 .. £18,366,297
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood ; H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E .;
George J. Sly. LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chiej Inspector: W. G. Hull,
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Kins
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New Soutli Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
PERTH, \V.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors:
A. Dodds Fairbaiiin, Alfred Shepherd, James Tukb.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every desorintion of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYAIU)
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 374,197
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,609,655
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at interest
for fixed
periods and transacts all other usual Banking business.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
**• should read tlie Bxutish Australian
and New Zealandek, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the Burnsu Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins . Street, Melbourne,
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay .
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 0/0 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
THE OUT STANDING
MERITS OF A
GREAT PENCIL
l!
1
£ /
V:
Perfection is the attribute common to all
Yli.vtiS PENCILS; each one is as good and
true to grade as the world’s largest
makers of qdality pencils, can achieve.
VfiENUS
W PENCILS
17 Blacklead Degreessd. each, 4/9 per doz., Super
Copying (Medium & h ard) 6d. each, 5/. per dozen
Venus Copying 4d., each - 3/9 per aozen.
“ ITO THE LEAD INSIDE
MAKES THE VENUS GLIDE”
Shipping, etc.
m
m* I-
'~o
FMBt
m<s
iiWli#
WjrCKREIO
\m\
Will
Through Auckland and
Suva to Honolulu
Warmly hospitable and naively joyous, Hawaii
wreathes the garland of welcome for every
pilgrim to its sunny shores.
On July 26 the giant liner Aorangi will make
its stately tour to Honolulu, carrying Aus-
tralians out of Winter’s reach into the endless
Summer of Pacific Isles.
Auckland, Suva, Hawaii, then back again—yet
the whole trip costs little more than a city
holiday.
Another Delightful
Winter Trip
is suggested by Union
Company’s Tahitian
Excursions to
fascinating
Rarotonga and
Papeete.
Visit
Pacific Isles!
Return Excursions
(from Sydney)
First Saloon . . £75
Second Saloon £55
Aorangi leaves July 26
Particulars and literature from
Union Steam Ship Co.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by AH Steamship Lines.
Choice of Any Route. Without Extra Charge.
From AUSTRALIA to
ENGLAND
FRANCE
ITALY
GERMANY
AMERICA
CANADA
MEXICO
AFRICA
JAPAN
EGYPT
INDIA
CHINA
Also attractive tours to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji, etc.
AUSTRALIA TO
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly sailings maintained by the popular
steamers “MARELLA” and ’’MALABAR” from
Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane, via Queensland
Ports, Torres Strait, Darwin, etc.
South Sea Island Tours
Solomon Islands—
S.S. “MATARAM,”
Visiting 24 Island
Ports.
New Guinea —
S.S. “MONTORO,”
Visiting 16 Island
Ports.
For Reservations and Information apply: —
■b
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. And all Branch Offices.
BANK OF
NIL W SOUTH
WALES.
Established 1817.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND ..
RESERVE LIABILITY
Directors:
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faitnfull. Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES,
(lead Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 ThreadDeedle Street, E.C. 2.
518 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
(.'aide remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.; F. E.
Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. IIAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - - BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
df
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
FHE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOB MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Steamer.
j heaves
I Sydney.
I I.eaves
'Melbourne
Sydney
Agents.
KAROOLA Sat.,
(All Ports) July 14.
ORMISTON
(Melb. only)
CANBERRA
(Melb. only)
Sat.,
July 14.
Sat.,
July 21.
ZEALANDIA
(All Ports)
ORUNGAL
(Melb. only).
KATOOMBA
(All Ports
inc. Albany)
DIMBOOLA
(All Ports).
Sat.,
July 21.
Sat.,
July 28.
Sat.,
July 28.
Fri.,
Aug. 3.
KANOWNA Sat.,
(Melb. only). Aug. 4.
Wed.,
July 18.
Wed.,
July 25.
Wed.,
Aug. 1.
TueS.,
Aug. 7.
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kembla Big.,
58 Margaret St.
Huddart, Parker,
Ltd., 10 Bridge St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn. Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street.
Melbourne S.S.Eo.
Ltd., Clarence
& Barrack Sts.
Howard Smith,
Ltd.,Kemblaßlg.,
58 Margaret St.
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no cargo for Mackay),
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, am
at Townsville for outports).
Howard Smith,
Ltd.,Kernblaßlg.,
58 Margaret St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge St.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kembla Big.,
58 Margaret St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
PAUSE AWHILE IN SUNNY
HAWAII
Enjoy eternally balmy weather, in novel setting
of tropical moonlight and melody, quaint tea-
rooms and Oriental bazaars. Exciting surnng
and outrigger canoeing at Waikiki. Enchanted
cruises to the lovely islands of Kauai, Maui and
Hawaii. Golf and motor on all principal islands.
A vacation that’s different. Good hotels tiom
12/- to £3 per day, with meals. Eo extra
charges for stop-over privilege when en routs
to America or Europe. Kouhd-trip, Sydney and
return, 8 weeks or less (3 or 4 weeks m
Hawaii) can be made for about £lOO to £ljc,
inclusive. Ask nearest travel or steamship
agent; or write Hawaii Tourist Bureau Depl.
26, Box 241-D, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for full
information, attractive booklet, attaching
advertisement.
PLAN NOW TO ENJOY HAWAII
South Africa and England
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
ABERDEEN LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ascanius .... 10,000 tons, July 25?
tDemosthenes 11,500 ~ Sept. 11
* Nestor 15,000 „ Oct. 8
*Nestor .. ~ . 15,000 „ Oct. 15
JCeramic .... 18,500 „ Oct. 16
* Ulysses .... 15,000 „ Nov. 12
fThemistocles 11,500 „ Nov. 27
Anchises .... 10,000 „ Dec. 10
♦First class only, tFirst and Third class.
s“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
JL'o LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
iSALUANALD .
EAKIIABOOL .
BAI.L.ABAT ..
BAItADINE ..
BENDIGO ..
Tons.
13,100
13,100
13,100
13,100
13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BOitDA
BEIIRIMA
Tons.
.. 11,10#
.. 11,100
~ 11,100
.. 11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, anti
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON, LTD.,
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. OUARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WULLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets,
BRISBANE:
PARES.—
Steamer and Motor tliroughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and Eirst-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/•
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., I/TD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co.. Ltd.
Huddart ParkerUm
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers. '
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.


*
pm
*
.
»
V. 1
J 1«
FI E
if iJ i)
• \m
t
Yfy//,/
y
the rapid healer
RVS
Chilblains, Cracked Hands and Cold
Sores all result from exposure to the wind
and weather, and cause an unnecessary
amount of suffering. Unnecessary be-
cause Rexona, the Rapid Healer prevents
just these discomforts and keeps the
hands in perfect condition throughout the
winter months.
There is no better treatment than to
get a tin of Rexona, and to apply this
antiseptic Rapid Healer on retiring.
First wash the hands with warm water
and Rexona Medicated Soap, dry care-
fully, then apply Rexona, the Rapid
Healer.
Your hands will respond to its healing
influence and become soft and flexible
without sores or blemishes.
Rexona is a specially-prepared pro-
duct, made especially to prevent and
overcome all winter skin troubles, and is
entirely different from all . other oint-
ments, and infinitely more efficacious.
Rexona is composed of the purest
vegetable juices and rare medical herbs,
which make Rexona an unequalled anti-
septic, cooling, soothing and healing
ointment. It is the greatest:skin remedy
of the age.
Thousands of people thank Rexona for Skin
and Health and comfort duringthe winter months.
Rexona, the Rapid Healer, is sold only in
triangular tin at 1/6, or in larger-size tins,
holding nearly four times the ■ quantity, ijfor 3/--
Chocolates
‘‘ I do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home!"
The Famous Red Box of Chocolates. ‘
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
I’o-t free to any address fn Australia.
162-66 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES:
Oil. GEO HU l'. AND KING
STREETS)
CASTLEHEAGU STHEET
(.Next Theatre Royal),
GEORGE STREET
(Next Regent Theatre),
SYDNEY.
Send for Catalogue illustrated
with reproductions of our
confectionery in colors .
*v;y]
SJ
fiR
w
mtk
1
;-'
UK
■■ . '
■ ■ I-. ' ‘ :■ " ■
stature usually earned for him nothing but
the gravy. Norway had terminated the
ensuing argument abruptly, by the simple
expedient of placing his broad hand upon
the Austrian’s countenance and pressing
bis head back upon the pillow, keeping it
there until its owner realised the futility of
further protest. But payment had to be
made; and next morning, when Winter came
upon Ginger holding a solitary session with
a holystone abaft the after deck-house, he
hit the unsuspecting toiler behind the ear,
leaving him for the carpenter to find, in a
dazed condition, half an hour later. Winter
was confined to his bunk for his next watch-
on-deck, and when lie reappeared he carried
a frieze of court-plaster, while Norway, the
man who had made it necessary, happily
soojeed the bridge bulkhead.
Flat-face Laud did not interrupt the black-
pan scrimmage until the tucker had
been disposed of and the resulting Homeric
battle in the forepeak passage was on the
wane. Then he suddenly appeared on the
upper rungs of the gangway ladder and
fired a couple of warning shots above our
heads.
No doubt Winter fondly hoped that
Norway would be presented to a shore magi-
strate at the Cape, and would thereafter
be prevented from rejoining his ship, but
in this he was disappointed; for, at the
inquiry, he was sole witness for the prose-
cution. Evenj. the aggrieved firemen, to
whom a fight is a boon, gave evidence for
the defence, and the Old Man gathered that
the only drawback to an otherwise enthusi-
astic and purely friendly argument was the
disgusting snoring of the accused, which
shook the deck like a running anchor-chain
and made the footing precarious. A quick-
thinking trimmer having dumped the black-
pan kidd, exhibit A was not forthcoming,
and the case for the prosecution failed.
Winter left the chart-house a discredited
witness and a despised man.
His mental processes differing in no
degree from those of ordinary individuals.
Winter decided that, as the forces of law
and order evidently ignored his laudable
ambition to preserve the peace, he would no
longer endeavor to do so; and, sensible of
the increased disfavor with which lie was
regarded, he decided to make a bid for popu-
larity with the under-dog by making the
next raid on the black-pan himself. His
covert boasts that he could capture the
supper any time he wished, and his avowed
intention to prove it, met with derisive
noises.
To our amazement he actually made a bid
the second day out from the Gape, blissfully
ignorant of the fact that the stokehold crew
had been augmented in Capetown by a burly
Irishman, who had been specially enlisted
as black-pan convoy. No sooner had the
Austrian touched the ankle of his prey than
a fighting avalanche descended upon him
with a joyful "A irra!” and, when we col-
lected, the remains, Winter’s face bore dis-
tinct imprints of boot-sprigs where the son
of l',rin had trodden with a magnificent in-
difference to the rulings of the Marquis of
Queensberry.
The defeat of his good intentions added
I tie! to the bitterness of his hatred of Nor-
way but with fowl-netting protecting the
butcher s cage, and the black-pan protected
by fighting Irishmen, opportunities to shine
vme few .and far between. He could not
compete with Norway in the matter of daisy-
niats or bottled models, nor could he emulate
the Norwegian s cheerful good humor and
disregard for enemies of all kinds, shapes
and nationalities.
So we ran the easting down in an en-
forced peace and unplenty; and the suc-
cession of days of sunshine and wind, the
even roar of the trade-winds and the regular
pitch of the ship in the long ocean rollers,
the clanking of the anchors in the hawse-
pipes as the bows dipped with monotonous
regularity, the ever-recurring games of nap
in the fo’c’s le, all served to lull the ship’s
company into a sense of unaccustomed
quietude. To all appearances Winter had
recovered from his envy, and Ginger dug up
Jus discarded facetiousness. Norway was
engaged on the fashioning of an elaborate
doormat with sinnet made from rope-ends,
and the cook had discussed Melbourne Cup
prospects with him. The spirit of friend-
ship walked abroad, and even Flat-face
smiled.
We were nearing the Crozets when Ginger
Jeaned over Winter as lie lay in his bunk
after coming off watch at eight bells, and
said plaintively. “Norway says you haven’t
kissed him good-niglit, Winter—you’ll have
to get out and do it!”
Ginger's peculiar idea of humor had
piompted the remark, but Winter’s replv
surprised us in its malevolence. He sat up
suddenly, and, with a backward swing,
knocked the little man to the other side of
the fo’c’s’le, where he lay in a dazed heap.
Winter’s face was distorted with rage
lon tell to that dam thieving squarehead
that I will send him to Hell!” he roared, and
added a remark about the ancestry of the
Norwegian which aroused the only real
anger we had ever witnessed in Norway,
who happened to be standing in the fore-end
of the fo'c’s'le in the act of removing his
belt. The next moment a heavy sheath
knife flew wickedly through the’ air and
thumped point-first into the front board of
W inter's bunk, where it hung quivering.
In the dead silence which followed the
even tones of Norway sounded like a prayer:
“Take that, Winter, and with it you better
cut my throat when I sleep. It is the only
time you likely to try.”
The Austrian, who had suffered a momen-
tary panic, had broken into a torrent when
Lamps interrupted him:
“Oh, shut your face. Winter. If you don’t
want to sleep, let them as do do!” and he
rolled over with a petulant grunt. And,
such being the nature of seamen the world
over, we all followed his example with the
paramount idea of getting as much sleep
as possible before the third officer should
turn us out in the cold dawn at eight-bells.
The incident served to enlighten us as to
the real state of affairs, and we reacted to
the tension by becoming silent and watchful.
But Winter did not act foolishly. He went
about his work with the practised indolence
of the real seafarer, apparently awaiting an
opportunity when his aggression might be
misconstrued as self-defence. As far as we
could see Norway wasn't unduly perturbed;
and, had the cook not decided to place a bowl
of sheep’s kidneys in the cage on the fol-
lowing morning, the Austrian might have
regretted his outburst of the night before.
But there it was, a well-filled bowl of
luscious kidneys intended for the officers’
breakfast, glinting mockingly at us through
the interstices of heavy fowl-netting, and
inducing nostalgia in exiled hearts; for sea-
men must not expect kidneys for breakfast,
except when they walk among the flesh pots
ashore.
With malice aforethought Flat-face Laud
decided that the decking in the immediate
vicinity of the cage was in a disgraceful
condition. The thought that the Star of
.lava should stir up the smells of the Yarfa-
having a blemish upon her snow-white
decks caused his heart to contract painfully;
with the consequence that the port-watch
spent the second dog-watch steering holy-
stones over the offending patch. The
weather had become bitterly cold with the
easting, and such unseasonable toil filled us
with a sense of crying wrong. It was
with an exalted realisation of the unfailing
precision of Divine justice that we awakened,
at six bells in the first watch, to behold
Norway concocting an appetising stew over
the bogey-stove, and using kidneys in its
preparation!
As a stew it was a great success; yet,
although there was enough for twice our
number, Winter refused to eat of it. Such
an unsailor-like refusal could only mean that
his stomach was full of bitterness. Ho
huddled beneath his blankets and held his
nostrils against “der stink.”
Hunger being satisfied for tlie time being,
ports were opened to disperse any suspicious
smells,, and when the third officer came to
stir us out at eight-bells lie disturbed the
heaviest slumber which the port-watch had
indulged during the voyage. If he felt sur-
prise when he saw the ports open in such
latitudes lie wisely refrained from express-
ing it. Possibly he felt that such regard
tor hygiene deserved a tribute of silence.
With his usual geniality, Norway allowed
the starboard watch to wallow deep in
slumber before he withdrew the plug from
the ventilator and dropped a belaying-pin
bn low. Such a noise would have had little
effect above the hammering of the anchors;
but when a belaying-pin is suspended by a
lanyard some two feet from the decking of
a fo’c’s’le during the second-watch on a
steamer which is whacking the big ’uns
about fifty south, it can be surprisingly
efficient as an awakener.
A bell chimed aft.
Two bells, and lights are bright, sir!”
lie chanted.
“Aye, aye,” came the bored answer from
the bridge, and in the morning there was
neither stew nor paraffin tin.
No one was more surprised than Norway
when the cook informed the assembled sea-
men next morning that some unprincipled
scoundrel had stolen four pounds of beef-
steak, six onions, nine carrots, several par-
snips and a whole bowlful of kidneys. The
Norwegian stared incredulously ' at. the
beautifully clean bowl and made a remark
about Yeneral Yackson.” The knowledge
that somewhere aboard the Star of Java was
a marauder capable of extracting bulky
food through the stout fowl-netting seemed
to throw Norway into a bewilderment wher*»
he perspired with thought; and to the cross-
questioning of Flat-face he could make no
more intelligent reply than ■‘.Me. sir?” with
a pained inflexion which i\ minded one of a
wounded animal.
“.We’ll search every man-jack of you !"
stormed Flat-face, who was very partial to
a well-broiled kidney. “One of you has a
key to this cage, and we'll find it if we have
to search the ship from truck to keelson !”
Don't be a fool, Mr. Laud,” came the
captain's acid tones from the bridge. “Un-
less the thief is delivered to me before we
cross the Bight, all shore leave at Australian
and New Zealand ports will be cancelled.
One man in each watch will mount guard
over the cage for the remainder of the voy-
age—Johansen in the port-watch and Peters
in the starboard. Think it over, men; and
carry on.”
It was an ideal opportunity for Winter;
tor seamen do not care to stay aboard when
m port, but the Austrian made no sign—and
it looked like mischief.
Peters was a particularly dour Devonshire
man. His sense of humor was nebulous;
his sense of honor curious. Nothing would
have induced him to betray Norway, yet
nothing would have induced him to betray
his trust as guardian of the officers’ food :
and so, for three days and three nights, in
alternate four- and two-hour spells, Peters
smoked Irish twist and gazed stolidly at the
heaving horizon, and Norway made daisy-
mats and sang songs of the' Fiords ; while
both exchanged remarks after the manner of
their kind! with the cook and passers-bv
Apparently supplies of illicit suppers had run
out. and vte did the best we could with the
cook’s impossible stock-fish.
It was in this period of distress that Win-
ter stalked into the fo’c’s le one evening
when Kerguelen Land was fading astern
with a couple of fowls. Real, plump, ready-
plucked and trussed fowls; and in the
astounded silence which greeted him he had
his reward. Norway sat in undisguised
abasement on the edge of his bunk, and
shortly afterwards edged dispiritedly to the
upper deck. When the cooking operations
were well under way the rest of us followed
Norway, whom we found under the lee of the
lamp-room whistling something from “Aida ”
Only Winter remained in the fo’c’s’le- arid
either his nose was not working, or his obsti-
nate spirit would not admit defeat At any
rate, when we ventured below again the hor-
rible smell of putrid meat had modified and
all that remained of the fowls was a well-
picked leg-bone, which was ostentatiously
w- e * pill ? w , in Norway’s bunk.
Whether Winter had eaten the frightful
things, or whether he had belatedly taken our
advice and dumped them through the port-
hole. we shall never know. The Austrian
declared that he had enjoyed a wonderful
repast; and we had developed the habit of
disbelieving him.
As no lamentations were heard in the «al-
ley next morning, and as Peters seemed quite
unperturbed, we were not surprised to learn
that Norway had rescued two condemned
carcases and with the cook’s connivance had
(Continued on next page.)


NEXT WEEK
“The Pure in Heart”
and
“The Squatting Devil of
Sam^fai.”
Two unusual yarns: one the
story of a beautiful old lady
who got a surprise; the other
the stirring tale of an octopus,
and a diver’s fight with the
detestable monster.
AND OTHERS.
“IXL” Carbide
When forwarding your next order for Carbide
insist on being supplied with
“IXL” Brand.
It is manufactured in Australia
and is guaranteed by the manufacturers to be
at least equal to the British Acetylene
Association standard quality.
When using “IXL” Brand you are helping an
all-Australian industry to flourish.
If unable to obtain from your supplier
write direct to the undersigned:
Ho Jones & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
HOBART, TASMANIA, Sole Distributing Agents
For
The Australian Commonwealth Carbide Co., Ltd.,
Electrona, Tasmania.
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Esq.;
Nomina. Capital £lOO,OOO .
Issued Capital 49,161
Paid-up Capital 30,234
Investments in Canberra Are Free
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
h. G. FUS SELL, General Manager.
Directors:
John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
G. Woodger, Esq.; S. J. Goulston,
R. G. H. Joseland, Esq.
of State Income Tax.
Alemite-ing”
A New Word with a
Vital New Meaning
to Every Car Owner!
Semite
lubricant
MEANS: “Using Alemite equipment to force genuine
A lemite lubricants into the bearings and gears of your car.”
This makes new-running cars of middle-aged
cars : avoids 80% of all repair bills—-and
does what ordinary “greasing” will NOT DO
"ALEMITE-ING” is of vital in-
terest to most car owners for
two big reasons. First —it will keep
your car running as smoothly at
80,000 miles as it did at 8,000!
And more important, perhaps —it
will avoid 80% of usual repair bills.
The amount garage and repair men
say is due solely to improper lubri-
cation.
NOT Ordinary “Greasing”
Don’t confuse Alemite-ing with or-
dinary “greasing.” For cheap greases
will never give you true Alemite pro-
tection. Many “greases” break down
under pressure —literally melt away.
They are dangerously inefficient, be-
cause heavy with “fillers,” soap and
fatty acids.
i‘ALEMITE-ING” Means Using
Genuine Alemite Lubricant
Alemite Lubricant, on the other
hand is a pure solidified oil that will
stand up under 3,000 pounds pres-
sure! (Average “grease” breaks
down under 200 pounds pressure.)
It resists heat up to 200°. And will
lubricate bearings properly at3o° be-
low zero. You must have all-weather
lubrication if you’d eliminate burnt
out bearings and rattles that come
from worn, corroded bearings.
Genuine Alemite Lubricant (for use
with both Alemite and Alemite-Zerk
Compressors) is on sale in handy 1
and 5 pound tins. Or, if your service
station does your lubricating—insist
they use genuine Alemite Lubricant
for your Alemite-ing.
Vital for GEARS, too
Insist that your service station use
trade-marked Alemite Gear Lubri-
cant —one grade for summer driving,
one for winter conditions. The
Bassick Manufacturing Company,
Division of Stewart-Warner, Chi-
cago, U. S. A.
The Alemite Fittings
Modern dust-proof Alemite and
Alemite-Zerk httings for chassis
bearings. Lubricant is shot
through them under high pres-
sure to the heart of the bearing.
Old grease and grit thus forced
'•ut —clea.i new lubricant sur-
rounds the entire bearing.
Alemite Compressors
To conform to fittings, com-
pressors come in two styles—■
Alemite and Alemite-Zerk. The
Alemite Compressor forces lu-
bricant through bearing by
twisting handle—the Alemite-
Zerk “gun” by a simple thrust-
ing motion.
The Alemite-ed Bearing
Cut-open view of lubricated
bearing. Note how lubricant
under pressure forces way en-
tirely through bearing.
No. 830
AI,SMITE
High Pressure Lubrication
loft them temptingly on a nice clean dish
in the galley. To the rest of us this was a
joke; to Winter it was a .just reason why
Norway should no longer cumber the sea.
His language was graphic and striking, and
as the Norwegian apparently cared so little
for his own safety, the combined watches
invited Winter to a mass meeting on the
fo’c’s’le head, and gave him to understand
that if he. Winter, damaged one solitary
hair of Norway’s head an unregistered grave
would swallow him. For answer Winter
spat over the side. He had his courage.
That day the weather decided to change
for the worse, and both watches spent miser-
able hours lashing everything movable. The
wind screamed through the shrouds, and
spume drenched the ship. The funnel took
on a coat of white, to be later washed oil
by pelting rain. The steady roll and pitch
changed to a wrenching twist which drew
protesting grunts from the laboring hull and
made the rigging of a life-line from the
bridge bulkhead to the fo’c’s’le-hatchway a
necessity. The officer on the bridge peered
with screwed-up eyes between the slit divid-
iin* liis sou’-wester and the top of the canvas
dodger, while the screaming mollyliawks
wheeled and swooped in glee. At: intervals
a heavy sea thundered across the bows, and
the old' Star of Java lifted to the next swell
and shook herself like a wet dog. Every-
thing was battened down, and the fo cs ie
was shrouded in gloom, with the dead-lights
in position at the ports. It was real sailor
weather, howling and bleakly cold, when a
man rides on ah equality with the gods and
curses the day he ever left the shore.
The wind increased, and with the waning
light the temperature grew steadily lower,
until by three bells in the first dog-watch the
deck had become the playground of the
furies, where every blast was as the thrust
of a knife. The look-out clung to the drum
of the anchor-winch, occasionally making
violent springs to the safety of the fore-hatch
as a green ’un swept the deck, and his hail
to the bridge at the striking of the halt-
hours was lost before it had passed the fore-
-11 a !nd, of course, the main-mastliead light
chose that particular night to play up ! It
was one of the old-fashioned oil-lamps,
which burned in a- massive brass lantern.
To the deckhands it did not appear to be
a matter for grave concern that it flickered
and died down at every roll to port, or that
it chose to burn with unusual brilliance m the
spasmodic lurches to starboard; but the Old
Man thought otherwise.
“Get that lantern down on deck,” he
ordered the Chief, “and fix it up properly!
You should have attended to it without
waiting for orders from me, Mr. Smith.”
Mr. Smith took it out of the bos’n, and
that heavy gentleman retaliated by dressing-
down the lamp-trimmer.
"Wliat's wrong, with the damn thing, any-
wav?” asked Lamps. “It’s alight, ain’t it?”-
The bos’n did not deny it. “It’s got to
be fixed,” he said evenly, “so fix it!”
Lamps held up a bandaged hand. “How
am I going to hang on to a Jacob's ladder
with me blasted duke tied up?” he demanded.
“It’s got to come down on deck,” insisted
the bos’n. “’the Old Man’s orders.” And
he proceeded to justify his name of Thick-
head by detailing Norway and Winter to
the task of rigging a tackle to bring down
the light.
It seemed incredible that the bos n could
be ignorant of the state of affairs between
these two. Lamps ventured a question, to
which the bos’n replied that Norway and
Winter were the only two windjammer
sailors on the boat, and therefore the only
ones fitted to do tire job. If there was any-
thing wrong between them they could fight
it out up there, and that was their funeral.
It certainly looked like Norway’s funeral,
for the Austrian had gone into the rigging
ahead of him, carrying the bight of an inch
line, and his enemy was following, carrying
a heavy iron snatch-block. The wire shrouds
were icy cold and, whenever possible the
two would grip the ratlines rather than the
unfriendly steel, while the sickening lurch-
ing of the mast made their progress a matter
for careful attention to footing. From the
top of the shrouds a single Jacob’s ladder
ascended to the lantern bracket twenty-five
feet above, and it was on this precarious
climb that mortal danger awaited the in-
trepid Norway. .
To a seaman there is nothing death-defying
in climbing such a ladder in the worst of
weather, but we of the watch on deck waited
for the feigned'slip which would bring Win-
ter’s wooden-soled sea-boots down upon the
face of Norway as he hung beneath with one
hand gripping the wooden rungs and the
other reaching up with the iron block.
Winter had reached the light, and was
feeling at its fastenings. Norway, standing
with his head on a level with the rung below
that op which the other stood, waited for a
favorable moment. When the mast had
assumed the perpendicular he reached up
while the Austrian reached down, and
Nothing happened! .
The Austrian secured the block above the
light with a skill and confidence born of a
life spent upon the sea. and turned his atten-
tion to the fastenings of the lamp. In the
beam of light directed from the bridge he
worked diligently at the bolts, while Norway
waited below him, blowing alternately on one
hand and the other. Several times VY * n ter
was compelled to make a sudden grab at t le
swinging block to save himselt trom being
hurled, line a stone from a catapult, trom
the whipping mast; and at each lrarrow
escape he would lean over and exchange a
laughing remark with Norway. It was t e
old story—-community of danger had erased
for the moment his bitterness, and on the
perilous foothold he showed himselt a man.
We thanked our private gods that this was
so. and watched the little drama.
Its finish came with startling suddenness.
Winter had released the lantern, had hooked
the lower block to the ring in its top, and
was giving a final look to see that every-
thing was clear. Satisfied he stepped down—-
and Norway’s half-frozen hands were that
moment, together gripped about the wooden
rung below! . „
It was devilish in its ingenuity. With all
his weight. Winter had descended upon both
the Norwegian’s hands with his wide-soled
boot, and nohow could it be proved that the
deed was intentional. Norway should nave
been gripping the steel wires of the ladder.
The ship pitched viciously, and every
moment we expected to see the body of Nor-
way flying on its way to destruction, for
no lingers could retain their grip in such
a storm after being crushed beneath the
weight of such a man as Winter.
We waited agonising moments for the Aus-
trian to lift his foot. Instead, after de-
liberately sizing up the situation, lie brought
the other foot down on the two and a halt
fingers which still showed white in tile steady
light! . „
After that there could be no doubt ot W in-
ter’s intention. The “accident had been
foreseen, and the favorable impression lie
had created by his seamanship was drowned
fathoms deep in a wave of rage. Winter
would be lucky if he, lived five seconds after
he had come down from aloft!
And then we had to change, our opinions
again; for, instead of lifting his feet and
allowing Norway to fall into eternity, Win-
ter, with all the power of his mighty lungs,
demanded to know if we were going to stand
there like fools? Why didn’t somebody come
aloft with a rope?
It was a great moment; and we almost
cheered as the bos’n did record time aloft.
“Throw a line round him and lash him to
the ladder,” commanded Winter, and the
bos'n obeyed without a word; and not until
Norway was secure against the danger of
falling’did the Austrian remove his weight
from the crushed and bleeding fingers.
Norway said no word of either thanks or
blame lie knew that he had looked closely
into the face of death, and he wasn’t quite
sure of the correct words to express his
feelings ; he just gazed at his bleeding fingers,
three of them broken, and smiled in a foolish
kind of way.
Winter was singularly silent that night,
and we experienced the novel sensation of
being ashamed of ourselves. He resisted all
our efforts at friendliness, arid wrapped him-
self in a reserve that was almost palpable.
Perhaps he cursed himself that his instincts
had triumphed over his reason, and that his
enemy lived ih consequence.
However that may have been, we felt that
we had done him a grave injustice; and on
the night before we spoke Cape Otway, when
he marched into the fo’c’s’le with some ten
pounds of pork-chops which we had sighed
over in the afternoon, we gave him an even
greater ovation than we had accorded Nor-
way on the occasion of the kidney stew.
Next morning Norway confessed to the
Chief the theft of the sausages and the kid-
neys. and, it naturally being presumed that
he had also purloined the pork-chops, he
spent the whole of his shore-hours sitting on
the anchor-wineli with his injured hands
folded across his burly chest. When some
kindly hand would light a cigarette and place
it between his lips he professed to have no
other desires, and to tentative queries on the
subject of pork-chops he returned evasive
answers. „ , ...
Winter wore bis new-found popularity
with surly indifference, and neglected to in-
form us on the subject of the ingeniously-
bent wire which Norway had bequeathed to
him when he was no longer able to use it—
a piece of wire which, in competent hands,
was capable of opening the strongest pad-
I found the wire in the neck of Winter’s
sborc-going jersey shortly after that mis-
understood Austrian had vanished over the
side on a stormy day off the Horn, and we
had made a raid on the belongings ©f tlm
deceased .before the bridge had time to get
down on them. , ..i*
Norway didn’t have much that lie could
give the enemy who had saved his life ; but
the one treasure he had he gave.
In a Quiet Hour.
I have been glad to-day. and yet
Nothing remains in me to-night
That I remember with delight,
Nor any thing I would forget.
The quiet people’ I have met,
With happy smiles not over-bright,
The sky where wind-blown clouds were white,
The task to which my hand was set—
To-morrow I shall gather these
In grateful memory, to be
A treasure in my thought alway;
To-night I only sit at ease,
And watch the stars go quietly.
I have been very glad to-day.
W.A.
ETHEL. DAVIES.
Night Piece.
Oh, all night long upon a darkened hill,
Among the moving grasses we had kept
A watch upon the solemn stars, until
At dawn we slept.
And all night was the silence of the sky
Upon us, not a sound of -waking birds,
Of sheep, or running waters, or man’s cry,
Or lowing herds.
But peace (that, like a substance, is drawn
down ,
From Heaven) fell upon the aching mind,
So we could sleep, when on the uplands
brown.
Blew the dawn wind.
S.A.
D. P. MCGUIRE.


sd
fs
df
sd
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES X CHUBCH, Brisbane.
N.SS. OHic-e—1)3-107 I'eatherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Ollice—“Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs* ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
1
14/45 h.p, 6-Cyl. Tourer
THE
INVINCIBLE
IT
□
D
EXTREME flexibility with top gear
performance of 3 to 60 m.p.h.
Four-speed gear box, right hand
change, low gear axle ratio necessi-
tating change of gear on steepest
hills only. Built for the Britisher
overseas, who wants a suitable high-
.clatls British car at the right price.
Full particulars from:—
Designed for Over-
seas conditions with
4 ft. 8 in. track, 9£ in.
ground clearance,
special springing,
special radiator and
fan to ensure perfect
performance on the
roughest roads or
tracks, and in the
hottest climates. Ex-
perts and owners all
over the world con-
firm teat in the 14/45
six-cylinder model
we have the finest
Talbot Car that has
ever been produced.
SYDNEY:
Buckle Motors, Ltd.,
187-189 William Street.
ADELAIDE:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street.
MELBOURNE:
Talbot Distributors Pty.,Ltd.,
478 Elizabeth Street.
PERTH:
Arthur Bales, Ltd.,
367 Murray Street.
H
Q>
A
m
iiy-ja
mini
IK.
At all
and tobacconists.
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco*
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
EACH.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars S/6, (posted 6/-); 25, 12A (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/-
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post tree.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Strcet 9 Sydney,
distributors Sor Club lieil Cigar Factory,
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
AN IDEAL WINTER HOME. The most sheltered spot on the Harbor.
Incomparable for Comfort. Excellent Cuisine and Service. Private Beach
and Amphitheatre Baths. Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4} Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast if required. Luncheons, Afternoon Teas, Dinners.
Delightful 25-minutes 1 trip from City by Ferry or Motor
P. RESERVATIONS; Y 3012, 4 Lines.
To secure sound Health
and to be free from
SICK
BILIOUSNESS
CON9MJQN
indigestion
fs
You Ye safe
if Wolsey
clad!
ALSO
ask to see
WOLSEY
LUSTRAL
Art. Silk Underwear
and Hosiery.
WOLSEY
SPORTSMAN
Knitted Outerwear and
Pullovers.
Pure Wool Stockings
for Women, Half-Hose
for Men, and | Hose
and Socks for Children.
OLSEY Pure Wool Underwear
V V is the finest protection you can
possibly adopt! Pure Wool from
first stitch to last, produced by skilled
British labour, Wolsey preserves an
even bodily temperature and makes
you proof against chill and cold. In
your own interests buy some and wear
it regularly. You need have no fear as
to whether it will wash well —it is abso-
lutely unshrinkable ! See the Wolsey
Head Trade Mark on every garment.
WOLSEY
PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR
Made in England by
WOLSEY LTD., LEICESTER.
WOLSEY LTD., 3 16, FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
I C.F.H.
/ ./A' ,9? -••-••
0<
1&-'
••••■ ,-■+#£s>


/
V
S 3
ill
/
;'' ,
/
&
w
mm
bieqSnsland timber getter
he helps 1 .
THE LOGGER
he helps.
X
7 -•■
v
a
x
PRICE
X
Beaa\
THE CHEMIST in his LABORATORY
he helps.
h
GIRL
THE WHARF!E
he k(
he/,
■
ih&xzxxvr- - *4
bet
kelps*.
you
She
|rCT=»
o
SO
a
m.
XO
a
B
<SG
OTHER INDUSTRIES’
/heu he/p
> »h> <r v
ii
'THOUSANDS literally thousands
do their bit for the Australian Match
industry, and earn much prosperity there-
from. Besides the six hundred employees
at the Bryant & May factory, there are
axemen in the Queensland bush, chemists
in their laboratories, papermakers,
teamsters, railwaymen, seamen, wharfies
—all helping Australia to strike Austra-
lian matches. It’s worth remembering!
BRYANT NAYS
AUSTRALIAN
MATCHES
