

dfd
YfA
&
&
* I
V'
«<4
/*v
,W
V#
r YOUR
HOLIDAY
SNAPSHOTS
deserve
KODAK Prints
KODAK PRINTS are bright and clear—they are
unequalled products of the world-wide Kodak organi-
sation and its vast photographic resources.
KODAK PRINTS are so marked on the back of each
snapshot. These words are a real guarantee of highest
quality and of permanence.
Entrust your films to us. Leave them before 10 a.m.
and the prints—on the famous “Velox” paper—will
be ready at 5 p.m.
DEVELOPING & PRINTING
KODAK
SAM E DAY
KODAK C
LTD.
379 George Street and
IQB Market Street, Sydney.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane;
and The Valley.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
“The Block,” 284 Collins Street, and
161 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
662 Hay Street, Perth.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton;
“The Kodak Comer,’ 1 corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
Xo U 5 {JttvZCcLasg J\luAvd>&Tt~
Vol. 49.—N0. 2550.
Wednesday, December 26, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Memorize with Ease.
Pass Examinations—Speak without Notes
to" d STOTT’S F ~ ee 32_pag:e Booklet
rf)T JVrv inn T n ECH NICAL CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE, 100 R USS eII street, Melbourne
W R Jo^r FOR THE library cata-
i • T, - AND LISTS on all subiects
freefto™ 1 b 6 10rw * r(kfi on application,' post
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
I
TO STOTT’S,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, me free, and without obligation, your
New Illustrated Book (just published) entitled
“BEAUTIFUL PENMANSHIP.”
NAME
ADDRESS
.... B/P
■4
STAMMERING AND STUTTERING
CAN BE CURED IN YOUR OWN HOME
Send TO-DAY for particulars of “Perfect Speech” and copies of letters from
those who have been cured. Philip O’Bryen Hoare, M.8.1.M.5c. (London) (The
Stammerers’ Friend), Specialist in Public Speaking and the Cure of Stammering
and Stuttering.
ADDRESS:
56 BRISBANE ARCADE, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
P.O. Box 1142 P.
Your New Car—
a 100,000-Mile Car
or a 30,000-Mile Carl
You can make it
one;
Improper lubrication
and cheap “grease” will
rush it to an early death.
Proper lubrication will
keep it trouble-free in-
definitely. The choice is
up to you.
Tabulated statements
from thousands of gar-
ages and repair stations
show—Bo % of all repair
bills are due to one thing
—improper lubrication.
mm
illli
m
An improperly lubricated car soon
begins to squawk and rattle. Then
burning friction eats out bearings
and gears. At the end of 30,000 miles
the car is a wreck.
A properly lubricated car avoids all
this. Huns smoothly as ne;w, is quiet,
avoids most repair bills. At 100,000
miles it can still be in good condition.
A Lubricating System Tested
on 15,000,000 Cars
A high pressure system of,chassis
lubrication has been perfected to
help you get the most from your car.
The Alemite system—used on 15,-
000,000 cars today.
Y our Car Can Be Alemite•
equipped at Small Cost
I! your car is already equipped with
this money-saving system, use it
every 500 miles and you’ll cut the
cost of operating your car anywhere
from a half-penny to a penny half-
penny a mile.
If your car is not so equipped, the
installation of Alemite fittings can
be made quickly and at a surprisingly
low cost. A fitting costing only a few
pennies will save a bearing worth
many pounds. The Bassick Manu-
facturing Company, Division of
Stewart-Warner, Chicago, U. S. A.
The Alemite Fittings
Modern dust-proof Alemite and
Alemlte-Zerk fittings for chassis
bearings. Lubricant is shot
through them under high pres-
sure to the heart of the bearing.
Oid grease and grit thus forced
out —clean new lubricant sur-
rounds the entire bearing.
Alemite Compressors
To conform to fittings, com-
pressors come in two'styles-
Alemite and Alemlte-Zcrk. The
Alemite Compressor forces lu-
bricant through bearing by
twisting handle—the Ale.mite-
Zerk ‘ gun” by a simple thrust-
ing motion.
T he Alemite-ed Bearing
Cut-open view of lubricated
bearing. Note how lubricant
under pressure forces way en*
tirely through bearing.
High Pressure Lubrication
©T.B.M.CO. Eas.U.S.Pat.Off.
No. 832.
THE CHRISTMAS ISSUE OF
“THE QUEENSLANDER”
(DATED DECEMBER 6, 1928)
Queensland’s Popular and Brightly Illustrated Weekly,
is the Largest and Most Attractive Christmas Number ever published, contain-
ing Pictures in Colors and a big collection of illustrated Stories, Special
Articles, etc. The u&ual weekly features are retained, making it A TYPICAL
QUEENSLAND PRODUCTION.
A Beautiful Colored Supplement, entitled “A PASTORAL SCENE,” is Pre-
sented FREE with each oopy. This picture is splendidly reproduced on Heavy
Art Paper, and should be extremely popular.
PRICE 1/-
including
Supplement
Obtainable from any of the following N.S.W. Agents: —
Gordon and Gotch (Aust.), Ltd., Barrack and Clarence Streets; N.S.W. Bookstall Co., George
Street and Central Railway Station; Uneeda News Agency, Bond Street; Swains, Ltd., Pitt Street;
Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
PUBLISHED BY THE
BRISBANE NEWSPAPER COMPANY, LIMITED,
"Courier” Building, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also Publishers of the “Brisbane Courier” and “Sports Referee.”
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
NOT A
POWDER.
MUSTDIE.
WON POISONOUS POWDER.
THE GREAT INSECT QKTROyEft
-
FI td
Fleas,
V.oVKJIfOCi
d ď
II-
N:-,
MUSTDIE'
POAVDER must not be mistaken for insecti-
cide or common insect powders, some of
which are sold under fancy names, for
“MUSTDIE” contains an ingredient par-
ticularly fatal to that Common house pest
aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
“MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers,
or forward 1/- in stamps to Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney,
The Red page
Erse
Call me not back again
To will, to weep, to war;
Not ever back again
With alien sun to mar
The cloud-borne quiet of the floating West,
The pillared purple of that land of rest
Where dead De Danaans are.
I was the tongue of kings;
On queens my honeyed lyre
Rained lovers’ carollings
Too higlUfor fret of fire,
Lowly as gold that buckles royal shoon.
And ye would meanly mock with noise my
boon—
Throned sleep in Heart’s Desire!
Mine was the milkkig song.
FrOm Erin’s glens of youth
Mine was the cradle song,
A rhyme of mother-ruth
Tender and brave, that brake against the
tomb.
Vex me no more: I knew the nursling’s
doom,
I kept the grave of truth.
Mine was the fire of fight,
The thousand-throated cry,
The hissing glaive’s delight,
The grey wool of the sky—
I clad the flame that redly tore it through
With slogans <of dead Nial and Boru
Then God forgot me. Why?
When Erin sunned the West,
Her lovely dawn was mine.
Mv love-notes made a nest
For losagan divine.
Brigit, Columba, Patrick of the prime,
The honey of you sweetens on through time
The ages’ bitter brine.
Not wholly have I died.
Slow, dear, inconsequent
Backwaters of the tide
Hold yet the way I went.
Sea-leaguered clefts, hid valleys of the Gael
Guard me in sleep; the ghost of Innisfail,
In dimsy light far spent.
Come, come and love me there
As men divinely mad
In charmed and pagan air
Loved nymph and oread,
But left the lovely elemental free!
Say, would you bid to brew and bake the
Shee,
Your common-way to glad?
Or who would, folly’s child,
The spindle rend away
From mother grey and mild.
And bid her dance and play
Through Boreal lights and mysteries pro-
found,
With alien words that girdle earth around?
What ghost can dare the day?
Come,, love me late and long
Amid the lowing kine-,
Or in the fisher’s song
The dreamy lay entwine
Again in gleams that rayed Manannan’s
locks
In iris rain by Brasil’s fairy rocks—
That loveliness was mine.
But soil me not one fold—
My lamb’s wool of the cloud—
Where men have bought and sold
In clay and clangor loud.
None more by me shall chaffer, cheat or kill.
Last, of your tender love and loyal will,
Pray me a tiny shroud!
maobiland.
JEŚIE MACKAY.
Anthology of Tears
One of our elder writers relates that,
although he might pity a goose for going
barefoot, he could never sympathise with
a woman who easily melts. She blubbers
out of her right eye, while she explores for
a ducat with her left.
“Remember that an eye is an evil thing;
and what is created more wicked than an
eye? Therefore it weepeth on every occa-
sion.
Job says of the recreant man, “His widow
shall not weep-”; and Jeremy Taylor, bear-
ing this in mind, admits he is undesirous
to have a “dry funeral.” David told the
cmef musician upon Jonathan, when the
Philistines took him to Gath, to put his
tears into his bottle; a phrase which sug-
gests the origin of our modern one, “Pack
up your troubles in the old kit-bag.” But,
when David himself felt sick, he roared
by reason of the disquietness of his heart;
moreover, we are told, he lay “chattering
like a swallow, and his throat was dry
with calling for help upon God.”
Sterne, who was not always a senti-
mentalist had a word to say on this matter-
so that, if we eavesdrop a little, we might
hear something to the point. Corporal
I rim and Uncle Toby are speaking- “T
cry like a coward’.... ‘Tears are no proof
of cowardice Trim. I drop them oft-
times myself,’ cried my Uncle Toby.”
This is spoken of admirable tears, such as
were shed by Darley, Hood, Westcott,
Peyton, Hallowell and Thompson, listening
to Nelson discover his plans for Aboukir
Bay. Coleridge fell into hysteria when Sir
Henry Englefield trounced him at the Royal
Institute for something he had said against,
Lancaster; whereupon Wordsworth (Cole-
ridge’s friend?) made a sour observation
about false sensibility. “What,” he ex-
claimed, “would our glorious ancestors have
thought of a First Lord of the Admiralty
who cries in the House of Commons when
he speaks of the lives lost on a shipwreck,
or of an Attorney-General who, when pro-
secuting men for high treason, is so affected
that he cannot proceed?” Upon another
occasion, Wordsworth (still a friend of
Coleridge?) was shocked to see the latter
agitated and moved even to tears simply
because he (Wordsworth) said of him that
he had “rotted his entrails out by intem-
perance!”
Then there is “French Without Tears”;
but Rabelais, the golden exception, retains
them and mixes their saltness with broad-
sides of laughter. “Together with Pono-
crates and Eudemon, Master Ganotus fell
a-laughing too as fast as he could, in which'
mood of laughing they continued so long
tfiat their eyes did water by the vehement
concussion of the substance of the brain,
by which these lachrymal humidities being
pressed out, glided through the optic nerves,
and so to the full represented Democritus
Heraclitizing, and Heraclitus Democritiz-
mg.”
Mrs. Betham Edwards, in her story called
“The Lord of the Harvest,” describes a horse
heartbroken at the prospect of separation
from his master. “ ‘l’m a-goin’ to leave you,
Smiler,’ murmured Elisha. ‘You’ll see me
never, never no more.’ The voice broke
down, and, with a loud sob, he threw his
arms around the animal’s neck. Again and
again Elisha kissed the broad forehead,
wetting it with sobs. Bitterer tears the Lord
of the Harvest had hardly shed by his little
Delphie’s grave years before, and from
those patient yet how expressive eyes, fixed
on his own so wistfully, tears now streamed
plenteously also. The Suffolk cart-horse
wept for sorrow, as had done his immortal
predecessor of Homeric story.”
But perhaps the best example of utter
bathos is to be found in the book called
“Marius”; one of the five which helps to
make up Hugo’s “Les. Miserables.” Marius
returns from the barricades to find his father
dead. “Mourning, bitter mourning was in
that room. The servant was lamenting by
herself in a corner, the cure was praying,
and his sobs were heard; the doctor was
wiping his eyes; the corpse itself wept!”
Speaking from our own personal experi-
ence, we can remember only once having
given way to tears. It had something to
do with Will Dailey’s relation of a sad
story during the time that he composed an
ailloli in his literary kitchen at Elizabeth
Bay,
The story was about‘a little dog with a
splinter in his nose; and, like the birds
of the air, we fell “a-sighing and a-sobbing”;
but whether it was on account of the
puppy’s predicament or whether it was the
nidor of garlic emanating from the ailloli
we have never been able to decide.
HUCH McCRAE.
This Side Idolatry
Thackeray, a generation or so ago, said
pretty well all that needs to be said now
about Charles Dickens and the novel by
‘‘Ephesian” (C. E. Bechhofer Roberts)
called This Side Idolatry (Mills and Boon ;
Roycroft, Sydney). “Hang thyself,” wrote
Thackeray, “Hang thyself, thou unhappy
writer of ‘Pickwick,’ or, blushing at this
exposition of thy faults, turn'red man alto-
gether, and build a wigwam in a wilderness,
and live with ’possums up gumtrees.” That,
if literary criticism had not in the mean-
time degenerated into blithering sentimen-
talism, is all that these people who have
been lashing themselves into an indignant
rage over this book need to have said about
it. A polite gesture of contempt, withering
with its subtle scorn. And what have we
had? This attack, this slander, this vilifica-
tion, this pestiferous blasphemy! How they
have thumped and bludgeoned out their
clumsy anger!
Patiently, I have waited for the book,
and now that I have read it I am left with
the impression that if a man who had been
publicly certified by a score of alienists to
be mentally deficient were to arise and
stick fingers to nose at any institution of
Old England the mutterings of indignation
would shake the world. I have read sundry
reviews of the book, and the tenor of them
all has . been that what “Ephesian” does
simply isn’t done. Not one of them con-
tradicts a solitary item in his indictment:
all they say, in effect, is that Dickens is an
English institution, that English institutions
are sacred, and that muck-raking is bad
(Continued on page 5.)


“Truth in Advertising,” the basis of sound merchandising methods.
Anthony Horderns
For Everything
at “Famous Low Prices”
“White”
Sewing Machines
Anthony Horderns*
are Sole Agents
in N. S. Wales.
O 8
A four-drawer Automatic Drophead of
straight design, made of polished American
oak. The drawers are enclosed in casement,
mounted on short, ribbon-type stand, with
ball-bearing wheel and pitman. Complete
with full set of attachments. The roominess
of stand makes it easy to dust.
Vibrator No. 8. Price, each . . £l3/10/-
Rotary. Price, each £l4/10/-
“Sit-Strate” design, a finely-constructed
Machine on short, rigid stand, firmly braced
together, it makes a solid, smooth-running
and altogether desirable machine. Has six
drawers, which are fully encased at sides,
secured from dust, etc., swinging centre panel,
which opens upon hinge automatically with
the raising of machine head, giving ample
room for the stoutest person to sit right up
to her work and sew with ease. Complete
with full set of attachments. Supplied in best
Polished walnut, Rotary mechanism only.
Price, each £l6/10/-
Dept.—First Floor. Carnage Not Paid.
Why not buy a “White” on our “D.P.S.”?
You pay the cash price only, no interest,
and in addition you have the advantage
oj Anthony Horderns’ “FAMOUS LOW
PRICES.”
Made expressly for and obtainable
only at
Anthony Horderns’
The “Bni”
Vacuum
Cleaner
Price
jSSSSSt
3^
m
The new improved “UNI” Cleaner
gives the maximum service at mini-
mum cost. It is amazingly simple,
and cleans with great rapidity. It
has exceptionally strong suction, is
silent in operation, and weighs only
1 Solid cast Aluminium
Frame. The “UNI” is fully guaran-
teed, and may be connected to any
electric light or power socket. Com-
plete with cleaning attachments.
Price £7/7/-. See it in the Electrical
Department, Second Floor. Carriage
not paid on this.
Dept.—Second Floor. Carnage Not Paid.
Occasional Table
at £l/15|-
This table measures 24 x 24 inches.
Has gracefully proportioned legs and
Under shelf. Top shaped and
mounted. Finished in Rosewood or
Walnut shades. Price, each, £l/15/-
Also either shades in solid Maple,
Price, each £2/10/-
Smoker’s Chair
at £6 7(6 ea.
In Oak or Maple of excellent quality,
beautifully upholstered in fabricoid.
Adjustable to four comfortable posi-
tions. Price, each £6/7/6
Dept.—First Floor. Free Delivery in
City and Suburbs only.
Buy on our “Deposit-Purchase System.” This is a most convenient shopping method. A big outlay is unnecessary. Simply leave a
small deposit and pay the balance as it suits you. When final payment has been made, the goods will be delivered in the usual way.
No interest is charged.
Anthony Horderns'
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


CAft
*
■
i
i
i
■
.
■
-
A
■■. <sy - H■,
''•/ ' s \--
.
*555
On and after Tues-
day, January Ist, your
State distributor will have
a wide range of De Soto cars to
show you. Remember the day, and
be sure to inspect.
so bril-
revolution-
ary has yet appeared in the
field of low-priced sixes. See
it—ride in it—drive it—and
you will recognise that, in the
De Soto Six, the genius of
Chrysler surmounts price
limitations to a degree that
upsets all existing standards.
NOTHING
liant and
New Style
New Performance
New Elegance
New Riding Luxury
AUSTRALIAN & NEW ZEALAND
DISTRIBUTORS.
New South Whiles:
Grenville Motors Ltd., Carsell House,
205-213 William St., Sydney.
Victoria: ■
Automobiles Proprietary Ltd., 92 Flin-
ders St., Melbourne.
Queensland: .
Stradbroke Motors Ltd., Adelaide St.,
Brisbane.
South Australia:
Dominion Motors Ltd., Flinders St.,
Adelaide.
Western Australia:
Wentworth Motors Ltd., Milligan St.,
Perth.
New Zealand:
Nciv Zealand Motors Ltd., Wellington.
DE SOTO MOTOR CORPORATION (Division of Chrysler Corporation), DETROIT, MICHIGAN.
'v:-.
'
iVtt'WMSW
WALTER P.CHRWLEE


Pure Wool Tweed
SPORTS SUITS
Priced
from
84/-
Men’s Sports Suits ready-made from good quality pure wool Tweeds.
Well cut and finished ; comfortable fitting. Fawn and drab, also
fancy grey designs. Coat with band and pleated back; four
patch pockets. Trousers have side straps, belt loops, side and hip
pockets, cut bottoms. An ideal holiday suit. Prices, 84/-, 100/-, 110/-
The Lower Ground Floor
A MAN’S GIFT BAZAAR
All one floor for Man’s convenience. There you’ll find hosts of giftts
—the-kind he would select himself, useful things to fill the mos.
usual masculine needs, with extraordinary beauty and distinction
And, too, in Man’s domain are gifts for womenfolk!
DAVID JONES’
Castlereagh, Market & Elizabeth Streets
Branch Men’s Shop, Opposite G.P.O.
taste, anyway. Not one of them, as mr
as I have read, has considered the
literary quality of the work under ic-
view. One would imagine from the blasts
it has drawn that the book was important.
Actually, it is a painfully dull novel.
Except that an .occasional character intro-
duces a “werry” into his conversation, the
dialogue is as monotonously unchanging as
the tune of “Please Give Me a Penny.
Neither Dickens nor any other character
comes to life: they are ail puppets, moving
stiff-jointed through a prosy and boring few
hundred pages. Atmosphere, the prime
essential of the historical novel, is simply
absent, and the author has not even the
saving grace of style. Whatever Dickens
may have deserved, he scarcely deserved the
uncritical yelping that has been uttered in
his defence over so cheap and shoddy a
book. The dullness of it; the pages and
pages of dreary dialogue; the crude patch-
work of situations; the almost real spectacle
of the author yawning as he grinds it
solemnly out, and on top of all this the
quite real spectacle of men who earn salar-
ies for being critics taking the footling
thing as solemnly as its . author had
done What a commentary it is on the
decline of literary criticism! What a com-
mentary, too, on our dearth of literary great-
ness that we must so treasure our past
giants that' even Insignificance crying
“Boo!” stirs us to portentous indignation!
I am surprised over “Ephesian’s” book,
not because of anything that is in it—l am
no idolator of the man Dickens —but simply
because so many critics have taken so
solemnly a thing so feeble and poor.
CECIL MANN.
Radio v. Gramophone—Round 3
“Ahau” (R.P. 5/12/’28) is mistaken if he
imagines that I underestimate the value of
the gramophone —or the player-piano for
that matter—among the factors causing an
improvement in present-day musical taste.
But, given that a good gramophone and a
good radio set are about the same price,
“Ahau” will hear very much more classical
music for the 20-odd shillings annual radio
fee than from a similar amount of money
spent in gramophone records. Therefore the
radio must obviously have the greater in-
fluence in the raising of musical taste. And
if “Ahau’s” radio set needs a tiiroat lozenge,
it doesn’t follow that everybody else’s does.
Also, even if the mechanical transmission
of sound is better on the gramophone than
on the radio, it doesn’t necessarily follow
that no good can come out of the inferior
article. You might just as well argue that
you’ll never get any good from hearing a
local singer because her vocal instrument
is inferior to Toti dal Monte’s, or that
there is no alcoholic reaction after beer
because whisky provides a greater one.
Anyhow, I did not say that radio was
the only instrument by means of which the
general musical taste had been raised.
KEITH BARRY.
Swags Up!
The title of the slender, book of verse
Swags Up!, by J. Le Gay Brereton (Dent),
has at least the advantage of being pecu-
liarly Australian. Its disadvantage lies in
suggesting the rollicking stanzas and robust
themes of the horse poets.
Professor Brereton’s muse does not move
in that way at all. She walks, the lady of
his delight, in the stately measure of the
iambic tetrameter and pentameter, the quat-
rain and the sonnet. She suggests delicacy,
gentleness; exquisite feeling; beauty of
mind and heart. When her medium uses
such phrases as “patiently we thud” (of a
steamer), and “All our land is full of noises”
(as synonymous with the sounds of nature),
it almost seems that he is being deliberately
rude to her. On the other hand, he allows
her to lead him beyond the borders of the
manly-pathetic on occasion— e.g., “Toby”:
Hey, Toby, Toby, Toby! Dead ?
The silence is a flood
That closes, choking, overhead,
And chills the living blood.
The leaping friend, whose jolly bark
Was greeting every night,
No more to thrill the summer dark
With welcome of delight?
r Beside his grave I bend the knee,
And O, my eyes are dim.
He hunted for the dog in me:
I found the man in him.
Which is, no doubt, unfortunate more for
its metre than for anything else, and earns
the poet applause for his courage, if for
nothing else.
In the main, however, poet and muse are
on the best of terms. “Beauty and Hate”
may be quoted as typical of that harmony:
I have sought and followed you, drunk with your
sacred wine;
Led out by a laughing wind on a tumbling sea,
On crags amid clouds, in cups that allure the bee,
And deep in the gem-lit gloom of the tortuous mine,
And on wide-spread wings where the great worlds
dance and shine
I have sought by the golden light; but have bent
the knee
At last where you lie, a humble goddess and free,
Naked and flushed in the warmth of a crimson shrine.
The hordes of hate have trampled your blooms in
mire,
And cackle and roar as their mockery priests blas-
pheme,
And sing the marching hymn of a wingless might.
They forge their god in the heat of unholy fire—
The squat, strong incubus born of an evil dream •
And it shrinks and crumbles away, in the golden
light.
Perhaps it is enough to say now that there
is in the book much more of that quality
than of the other.
A Satchel of Books
Decline and Fall, by Evelyn Waugh
(Chapman and Hall). Avoid this book as
if it were the plague, all ye who take life
seriously! A young man is sent down from
an impossible school, becomes master at
another impossible school, becomes bride-
groom of an impossible woman, becomes a
convict in an impossible gaol, becomes an
impossible parson. Decline —and fall! Yet,
though all is exaggeration, burlesque, it is
so cleverly done, and so built on a basis of
truth that it convinces as nine out of ten
serious novels do not. A delightful piece of
foolery.
A Book of Broadsheets (Methuen). A
brief extract from the introduction by Geof-
frey Dawson, editor of the Times, will com-
pletely explain this book : —
It is a reproduction—not indeed complete, but
sufficiently representative—of the pocket literature
provided by the Times for the men in the trenches
during the early days of the war.... Every item
in it was printed in the form of a “broadsheet” —
a single page of thin paper suitable for inclusion
in a letter—and distributed in hundreds of thousands
to the forces in the field or at sea.... they were
divided into sets of six, each set being sold in an
envelope for a penny, with special rates for large
quantities, such as were purchased and distributed
by the Camps Library and other organisations of
the kind.
Diggers who were given their Blighty on
Gallipoli will remember the sheets, which
were sadly mistaken for tracts in Monte
Video, Christmas, 1915. They are now formed
into a volume which, excellently printed and
bound, is a beautiful addition to anthology
literature.
Poems, by Wilfrid Earl Chase (Wilfrid
Earl Chase). This, of course, is an age of
great poetry. You have only to pick up any
paper that publishes verse to see how glori-
ously the muse doth sing. Persons like
Tennyson and Swinburne are being pushed
into correct perspective. Madison (Wiscon-
sin, U.S.A.), where Mr. Chase woos his muse,
is to be congratulated on joining so vigor-
ously in this pushing. One example:—
He played with toys till the end of his days;
Played with his guns and his fishing rods,
With yachting and guns and his hunting dogs.
He ate and drank and played with his toys,
So, with the mental age of a youth,
With scarcely' one year’s work to his credit,
This wealthy parasite went to his grave.
Hear, hear, say all of us.~
The Secret of Mohawk Pond, by Natalie
Sumner Lincoln (Appleton) ; The Diamond
Rose Mystery, by Gertrude Knevels (Apple-
ton) ; The Phantom Passenger, by Mansfield
Scott (Bodley Head). Although authors are
hard put to it these days to find original
twists for mystery stories, the demand at
the libraries for this kind of fiction seems
to be greater than ever. These three mea-
sure up to average quality: clever construc-
tion of plot, passable though stereotyped
characterisation, exciting situations. The
first concerns a girl who is induced by the
will of her eccentric uncle to live for a
month and a day in a house containing
hidden treasure that her lawyer and others
try to get. In the second a girl holds the
plan of the hiding-place of a stolen valuable
gem, and is frustrated in finding it by under-
world gangs, male and feminine. The third
is enacted on a yacht, the “passenger” being
a man wanted for murder. The Lincoln
story is the best of the three.
Vanity Under the Sun, by Dale Collins
(Heinemann), The plot substance that Dale
Collins here employs—lost memory—has
been worn rather threadbare since the war,
but he manages to give it anew twist that
compensates for its lack of originality 1 . The
“case” loses his memory in the Japanese
earthquake, after seeing another man, who
is killed, stand with arms spread out in a
crucified attitude. A sweep ticket makes
him rich enough to take a wife and a New
Guinea plantation, and the arrival of an
old lover of the wife introduces the suspense
of hatred, which is broken down only when
the spectacle of a _ crucified man restores
memory, and with it the recollection of a
former wife. The ending has bebn used by
O. Henry, but is good enough to stand the
repetition, and the yarn as a whole is a
first-rate entertainer.
Confessions of an Incurable Collector, by
Desmond Coke (Chapman and Hall). Even
those who consider they have no interest
whatever in collecting need not shy off this
book. Mr. Coke is “incurable,” but he is
not fanatic; all his collecting is done for
sport and with an eye to beauty. As a
sport, he here describes it, and manages to
write an interesting autobiography as well.
All he had collected up to the age of 37 was
destroyed by fire in the place where he stored
it while he was at the war, and the Thames
flood of a year or so ago also played havoc
with much of his treasure; but, like a good
collector, he has kept on, 'and is still at it.
One item of Australian interest in his keep-
ing is a bound copy of “Ned Kelly, the Iron-
clad Australian Bushranger,” on the title-
page of which is written in the handwriting
of G. D. Boueicault: “A Flatulent Farrago
of Fatuous Fiction. Conceived by G. D.
Boueicault. Commenced by Borlase. Con-
tinued by Percy B. St. John. Completed by
M. Vizetelly. Cut up generally (under pre-
text of sub-editing. and otherwise improv-
ing) by G. D. Boueicault.” Fifty-seven page
illustrations help to • make Mr. Coke’s book
itself a treasure for collectors.
The Egyptian Enigma, by J. E. Marshall
(John Murray). A palatable biographical
confection wherein the sour grapes of the
past and present situation in Egypt are flav-
ored by the honey of a keen sense of humor
and covered by an anecdotage which is far
from being crusted. The writer is an Eng-
lishman who from 1890 to 192,8 was a
Judge of the Egyptian courts, winding up ag
a member of the Court of Appeal. He
knew everyone who was anyone in Egypt,
from Cromer to the present High Commis-
sioner Lloyd. No worshipper of idols, lie
has some stark things to say about some of
them, notably Kitchener and Allenby. He
lays bare instances of corruption and incom-
petence among the Egyptians in high places,
but he does not spare his own people. If
he is to be believed, most of the High Gods
of the British Administration were jealous
of each other, and ready to sprag the wheels
of their contemporaries. His vivid and inti-
mate portraits of these and their Egyptian
opposite-numbers are a feature of the book.
His sketch of the late Zaghlul Pasha is the
most scathing thing in his pages, but even
here he ends on a note of sardonic humor •
“The only thing British for which he had
any admiration was Scotch whisky.”
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications in.uffi • •
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. *
Olor Delpas: Yes, even the S. M. Herald
deposed the sick king after the second day of the
Test and ’anded the Crown to ’Obbs....W. Bren:
“Hayes” hung in the balance. We hope we’ll never
have to print worse... .Sibby: Too obscure. The B.
can see no good reason why a poem should be a
puzzle... .J.J.K.: Much obliged. Too late new; but
the suggestion will be remembered. .. .Fair Play:
But it didn’t. The judges did that... .E.A.F.:
Thanks; sorry too late....Waw: Too hard to swal-
low. .. .S.N.S.: Sounds all right; but tloes it mean
anything?... .H.A.0.: Sorry, but if it wasn’t accom-
panied by stamps for return, it wasn’t preserved....
Two Sides: Certainly. But if the Labor side won’t
accept any scheme that might result in speeding up,
what are you going to do about it?... .Pickax:
Seems more in your line than a pen... . E.G.T.: If
that’s Heaven, may our sins increase!... .E.D.: Ginns'
Annual verse... .Coppertop: “Murrumbidgee” flow-
ing your way. .. .N.C.E.: Moonshine... .G.A.M.C.:
You get a booby prize for making the sky “look
like a vast inverted tray”... .D.H.E.: You must
find it awkward living in Sydney with your heart
always in the bush. .. . Paragot: Too slight for us;
try ’em elsewhere... .S.J.R.: We’d use your verse
in praise of silky-oaks if it wasn’t that we’re
fond of those trees... .E.L..G.: “Wonderful,”
ho said, dropping it into the basket....
Aussie: Test-match verse thrown 0ut.... W.T.-W. .*
One held for investigation... .Apex: Base,
rather J.G.E.: “Kill it or cure it.” Sorry, but
it was dead when it arrived.... Soames: “Night
Witch” sent to the stake... .M.J.: They might be
verses, but they sound more like hearses to us... .
W.J.M.: Eucalyptus cured your cold, and then you
wrote that about it! Ingrate!... .J. 8.: We were
looking forward to Christmas till we read your
Christmas verse... .Swastika: “Should I give up
verse?” Heavens, no! We want to keep this
column going... .M.F.: Oh, the times! Oh, the
rhymes!.... Slo: Length, ten lipes; weight, 17 tons.
.... Herare Hutane: Except for the fact that they’re
all poor, there’s nothing much wrong with ’em....
Wellington: Thanks for compliments of the season.
Same to you. Verse painful... .F.R.: Pity Shelley
jumped in ahead of you... .L.J.: Waratahs all right
to look at, but if that’s their idea of a chant we’d
recommend a good gargle L.T.: Correct enough,
but deplorably empty... .N.M.: Tame stuff, that... .
L.L.: Home, “James” F.C.IX : Many thanks....
R.R.: The sonnet’s a weak vehicle for parody....
Billy Popgun: To hand, one dud....R.J.: “Two
Voices” heard. You have our sympathy.... Philo :
“Affliction” describes it....8.K.: As poor as a
cricket selector. . . .Berry: Buried. . . .C.R.: Too
slight; but keep on trying W. 8.: Getting nearer.
M.H.: Accept your philosophy, but reject your
essay W.N.R.: You are not presuming; regret
can’t use Ivad Summ: Echo friend’s advice to
“try further afield” J.C.: All the old girls are
dead. .. .R.D.: Doesn’t cross the threshold....
W.A.S.: Characters well sketched, but story con-
ventional. .. .Twilight: No, midnight. .. .8.C.: A
story swampd in irrelevancies. .. .T.A.P.: Won’t do
here. .. .R.W.: No present achievement, but has a
spark of promise. . . .Neophyte : Let it drop. . . .11.C.R.:
Their brevity was their only merit.... D.H.E.:
We’re not interested enough in him. .. .M.Q.P.: Both
fail L.N.D.: We’ve read something not unlike all
that before Hesper: You chiefly repeat the earlier
writer P.M.: No room for any more in that ring.
H.J.H.: “Book Titles” appears to be. a fascinat-
ing • subject; we get an article a week on it
K.M.G.: “Jazz Poets” even less interesting than its
subject J.M.E.: Agreed. Debate now closed
Henry P.: Can’t find a corner for it. .. .M.C.M.:
Read it again; still dissatisfied M.E.8.: Study
in charcoal too sombre. ...E.R.R.: Your pen is more
prolific than profitable F.M.: Humanity without
craftsmanship. .. .W.H.8.: Good tone, well written,
but limited interest E.C.S.: With finality—no
C.M.M.: Your style gives us a headache S.J.M. :
Good of its kind, but not our kind L.M.: Blue-
eyed young parson packed carefully, marked “fragile”
and returned P.R.: Much too long W.R.F.:
Secondhand goods declined. .. .Umfaan: Steady with
the chestnuts Coinin: All diplomatic privileges
were withdrawn from the Russian Government by
vote of the House of Commons on May 20, 1927.
In the following September the Trade-union Congress
decided to break off relations with the All-Russian
Council of Trade-unions.... Collie: Australian coal
exports, 1913, 2,098,505 tons; 1926-27, 807,148 tons.
....Sandstone: One more, then: —
Bill Doherty was a Bruiser
Of well-deserved renown.
He fought black Peter Felix
In Paddy Hannan’s Town.
“Here, 6 to 4 on Felix,”
Kalgoorlie Tommies yelled,
Till Peter with a Woodener
The pride of Footscray felled.
“One-two,” the third man whispered.
To William, sleeping sound;
“Three-four, five-six,” he went on,
Though hoots the counting drowned.
“Seven-eight,” he had to motion
Amidst the fearful row.
For thousands were now shouting
That Felix was a Cow.
Will no one save poor Doherty?
“I will,” said Pat, “be cripes!’
And rushing to the switchboard,
He turned out all the lights.
G.D.P.: -Has strength, but story interest too
thin. ... J.E.S.: It flopped. .. .F. J.C.: Discord....
P.K.: When you have learned a little about life, try
again W.M.C.: Might do for a youngsters’ maga-
zine... .K. 8.: “Damnation” is a suitable title....
T.J. : Not enough meat in that stew. .. .Frank N.:
Make up your mind what your point is, then go
straight for it. The Bulletin hasn’t space for
quiet little amblings in side-paths.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.S.: The wheelbarrow got you down. .. . L.M.H.;
Hero with creased trousers and carpet slippers heaved
out. ~ J.L.: You didn’t do your kind deed the
day you sent us that Boy Scout sketch... .J.8.C.:
Gags have mostly fluttered this way before. Drawings
fly back. . . .C.A.M.: You’re one of the army of earnest
scratchers. .. . J.S.: Not up to last month’s form....
J.T.W.: Drawings still wooden and jokes grow no
younger.


9
■v
m
mim
■ I mm m 11 10M I
.
:
■
mm mSm
■ >.->
Si
Great w.?m
£//iarft!in<i .■
'
1 w
:: ■
I i
*■
pMpl|g
l
-*' !
r-*


The Bulletin
Vol. 49.—N0. 2550.
December 26, 1928.
YOUNG 1929 : "ARE YOU ALL RIGHT ? "


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
2ti George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 245 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London: 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45. ; 6 months, 12s. 6d.j
3 months, Is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional 40z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
LEASON’S NEW YEAR CARTOON . . . . 7
EDITORIAL 8, 9
Let’s Christianise Democracy .. 8
“The Chosen of God”
—The Revolt in Afghanistan .. .. .. 8
“The Super-Salesman”
—A drawing by Percival .. .. . . .. 9
POLITICS (with drawing by Glover) .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. . . 11, 12
PERSONAL 13
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 14, 16
E., S. and A. Bank .. 14
Kauri Timber 14
Hume Steel 14
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD . . 17
POVERTY POINT
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. .. 18
“His Handicap”
—A drawing by Low . . . . . . .. 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 19. 20
Prizes for Farmers .. 22
MAN ON THE LAND 22 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT . ’ 93
SMOKE-OH ... 28
“BRACKEN” .‘.‘so, 49', 50
PEN AND PICTURE 33
New Movies 33
Sporting (illustrated) .. ..35, 37, 39
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 40
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 42
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 43
COMPLETE STORIES—
“The Gift of Lies”
By Henry Mostyn . . . . . . . .. 44
“Damn Henry”
By Patricia Buckley . . . . . . .. 47
VERSE 44, 47, 50
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 26, 1928.
LET’S CHRISTIANISE
DEMOCRACY.
“Why not give Christianity a trial?” in-
quired G. B. Shaw. In a similar spirit he
might have asked for a fairer deal for demo-
cracy, which also derives from Bethlehem,
and which has been betrayed consistently
by forces very like those that have made
Christianity a source of gloom rather than
of joy to mankind. Exclusiveness is admit-
tedly the chief weakness of the churches,
and exclusiveness is the chief weakness of
democracy. Woodrow Wilson defined de-
mocracy as “the reign of law, based on the
consent of the governed.” But, in practice,
the governed have no more chance to give
or withhold their consent on many issues
of vital importance than the rank and file
of the Church of England have to decide
on the Prayer-Book question. All the
powers that matter, from the power to
declare a strike up to appointing a High
Court Judge, are retained by a few indus-
trial or political ecclesiastics. Machinery
exists for dispensing with them, but it is
difficult to put it in motion since they them-
selves control it.
* * * *
W. A. Holman, K.C., a member of the
Nationalist party’s executive, has contri-
buted a description of the way the machine
works. He estimates the vital strength of
Nationalism in N. S. Wales (“the people
whose votes can always be relied on”) at
half a million. They _|ire controlled by an
organisation numbering “barely over 5 per
cent, of the total.”
“It is not to be imagined 'that this 5 per
cent’, is a fraction distinguished by special
activity, intelligence or the qualities of
leadership. The few people who are in the
movement are.there because they have always
been there.”
Why do not the excluded majority join
up? Because they are denied the oppor-
tunity. The control of local leagues is a
valued privilege.
“If a mob of outsiders were suddenly ad-
mitted, there is no saying whom they might
select as officers or delegates, or—unthink-
able horror—-even as candidates. The
branches accordingly meet very rarely. No
publicity is given to their doingd.”
In France the other day the Deputies in-
creased their salaries to £4BO p.a.—£Bo p.a.
more than British M.P.’s are paid—though
the franc is still in a bad way. In Aus-
tralia the P.M.G.’s Department is prepar-
ing to sack a large number of its Digger
employees early in the ftew Year. America
has a liquor law which one large section
resents and another large section violates,
and which is only kept on the Statute Book
apparently because the political bosses are
able to divide the electors on other issues
when prohibition comes to the fore. Par-
liaments are continually passing distaste-
ful laws and condoning administrative
breaches of faith and downright acts of in-
justice for the reason that they can do
it with reasonable safety under the demo-
cratic system. A mediaeval king who made
a salary grab at the expense of his sub-
jects, or rewarded an old soldier with star-
vation, or cut off his people’s ale was always
liable to be executed; but a modern Minis-
try can claim that it is proceeding by divine
right of popular assent.
* '!• * *
The conclusion is that democracy will
never do itself justice till it decides to
Christianise itself— i.e., cut out the hatred
complex which at present hands it over, a
bound Samson, to its natural enemies.
Under the party system cliques are able to
inspire unpopular measures, and Ministries
whip up enthusiasm for them, if all else
fails, by representing that they exasperate
the Opposition. Similarly, nearly every
strike is one-part economic and three-parts
emotional. If the absurd notion could be
got rid of that, in all the major relations
of life, there are antagonistic sides seething
with dislike, then thousands of industrial
and political trouble-makers would lose the
only jobs they .know, and the citizens in
general would be happier and richer. Demo-
cracy would have come into its own.
WHAT WARD WILL DO TO MAORI-
LAND.
As becomes a severely practical country,
the politics of Maoriland are rooted deep
in occupational divergences. A chemical
analysis of the three main parties would
show that, though the elements appear in
all the mixtures, the Reform party, lineal
successor of the Conservatives, is in essence
a land-owning group. The United party
traces its genealogy back to George Grey.
Its destinies were mingled for a while with
those of the wage-earners in the days of
the Lib .-Lab. Federation, when an alliance
with the horny-handed was not only a mag-
nificent political asset but personally grati-
fying to such physical giants as Dick
Seddon and John McKenzie, who were
proud of the fact that they had proved
themselves able to earn their living by the
sweat of the brow. But those two cele-
brated lieutenants of John Ballance got
their chance, not because they represented
the wage-earning class—they had graduated
out of that class long before they took
Cabinet rank—but because the' Conserva-
tives had proved inept administrators, pro-
tectors of monopolists, and entirely out of
tune with the mental processes of what, at
that time, was a particularly thoughtful
mass of small-earning, hard-working oeople.
* * * *
In the years immediately preceding the
Conservative debacle of iB9O times were
hard, competition was keen, and traders of
all kinds found themselves in a cleft stick.
Most of them wanted to give the people
who worked for them a fair deal, but rents
were excessive, taxes were high, and cer-
tain of the biggest firms were in the child-
slavery business. The so-called Maritime
Strike that shook the power of landowners
and monopolists in both Maoriland and
Australia was by no means confined to the
sea and the waterfront. The anti-monopo-
list press seized upon the opportunity to
put before the public facts so damning
that its conscience was aroused. Bishops
espoused the cause of the strikers. Chief
Justice Higinbotham sent along a contri-
bution to the strike fund. Conservatism
stood discredited, and the time was ripe
for a wide variety of legislative experiments.
On that wave the Maoriland Liberals
held office for 22 years. They carried out
the programmes of their two chief doc-
trinaires, McKenzie and Pember Reeves;
and Seddon, with his ear always close to the
ground, picked ideas from that source and
kept up the impression of paternalism to-
wards the wage-earners. Ward, suddenly
called upon in 1906 to assume the mantle
of his astute predecessor, found that the
Labor backing of the party had swarmed off
into a hive of its own, and that the allegi-
ance of what may be called the merchandis-
ing interest—the real backbone of the party
—was wavering. Moreover, the Liberal
party, waxed fat with long tenure of office,
was showing a tendency to internal in-
trigues. He carried on for five years, and
then was pushed out of office by members
of his own party, one of whom was so ran-
corous that he arose from what was prac-
tically his deathbed, clad in pyjamas and
an overcoat, to vote against his chief on
a no-confidence motion. The merchants
transferred their allegiance to the land-
owning party, led by Massey, a typical small
farmer of the old school. When Massey
died and young Gordon Coates reigned in
his stead, there was a touch of Mussolinism
in the political atmosphere that was irritat-
ing to both friends and foes of the Adminis-
tration.
* * $ $
Now the merchandising interest has got
rid of Mr. Coates and his land-owning
party, and Ward, in his 73rd year, takes the
helm, pledged to a policy of substantial
borrowing in order to provide cheap money
for farmers and to complete an ambitious
programme of public works. The new
leader was roundly condemned for the ex-
travagance of his loan proposals while the
election was in progress, but now that it is
over the Otago Daily Times, one of the
most influential of Reform journals because
of its judicial attitude, admits that there
isn’t much to choose' between Ward’s boast
of what he will borrow and the settled
practice of the Reform Administration,
which in the last three financial years has
taken close on £30,000,000 from the pawn-
shop counter, singing all the time a pious
little hymn about economy and curtailment
of borrowing. Probably the only difference
will be in the way the money is spent.
In the last 16 years loan money has been
mostly used to irrigate the North Island
with a golden stream. In every category
of expenditure—farmers’ loans, railways,
roads and bridges—the North Island’s share
has been two to three times that of the
South Island. Ward represents Invercargill,
one of the most southerly electorates in the
Dominion, and the dominance of Auckland
Province is ended. It may be anticipated
that the comprehensive plan of completing
main trunk-railway lines—two of the biggest
gaps are in the South Island—recommended
by the Raven-Fay Commission four years
ago as a first essential to putting the rail-
ways on a paying basis, will be carried out;
that budgets will bear a closer relation to
possibilities than has been the case for some
time past; and that, no matter how illusory
it may be when the loan account is taken
into consideration, there will be a nominal
surplus each year. It is probable also that
as a return for Labor support there will be
legislation aimed at bettering the condition
of the basic-wage workers.
“THE CHOSEN OF GOD.”
The cables report a very serious state of
affairs in Afghanistan. King Amanullah
and Queen Souriya have taken refuge in the
fort at Kabul. Shinwari and Khugiani
tribesmen have captured important points
overlooking Kabul. The outpost at Kaja
has also fallen. The road from Kabul to
Peshawar—lndia’s key outpost in the North-
west Frontier Province—has been blockaded.
The Afghan army is in revolt. The handful
of British subjects in Kabul are in grave
danger. Communication with India has
almost entirely been cut off. Food supplies
and comforts, so necessary in a rigorous
winter such as that of Afghanistan, are
nearly exhausted.
Now what is the cause of all this tumult
which leads on naturally there to mas-
sacre and assassination? The writer, who
was connected with both Indian police
and Indian army over a period of many
years, and knows both the frontier and
Afghanistan well, will try to explain.
Aman-Allah, as his name should be spelt
(meaning Chosen of God), is the present
Amir of Afghanistan, a country where for
centuries past there has been strife, tribu-
lation, intrigue and warfare. No amir of
the past has had a bed of roses, and if ever
that trite proverb “Uneasy lies the head that
wears a crown ” had any truth in it, it is
in relation to the amirs of Afghanistan.
Aman-Allah is merely going through what
his ancestors experienced during the last
200 years or more; and Souriya, his begum
or queen, is sharing his misfortunes.
The Moslem religion is stronger in
Afghanistan than in any Mahommedan
province or native State in India. The
mullah or priest is a factor to be always
and everywhere reckoned with. Supersti-
tious and arrogant, his word with the fol-
lowers of the Prophet is final. Caste pre-
judices, worship rites, the laws of Mahomet
—all are rigidly enforced by the mullah.
East will always remain East in Afghani-
stan, and to even attempt to introduce
Western methods or ideas is to court sud-
den assassination. Assassination musjt be
the ultimate fate of Aman-Allah and his
begum Souriya.
Amir Aman-Allah and Begum Souriya
(now Westernised to “King” Amanullah
and “Queen” Souriya) were first distrusted
by the true believer for adopting the West-
ernised titles. But there was much more to
fan the flame which is now a roaring fire.
King Amanullah and Queen Souriya, who
had been feasted and loaded with gifts in
England, France, Italy, Germany, Persia
and Turkey, returned to Afghanistan with a
determination to modernise their country.
The earliest and most flagrant act was for
Souriya to return unveiled. The Purdah
system is the backbone of female Moslem
respectability. Only dancing girls and
singers, women of easy morals, are permitted
to discard the purdah. Souriya was im-
mediately “outcast.” Amanullah also had
discarded his turban and shaved his beard.
For a follower of Mahomet to bare his
head, or shave the beard on which he swears
his sacred oaths, makes him an object of
scorn and hatred. But add to these sins
the adoption of Western tailored suits and
model gowns and millinery! The use of
the lipstick and rouge and the wearing of
silk stockings by the Queen! The attempted
reformation of caste obligations by the
introduction of French cafes, afternoon teas
and the use of knives and forks where
fingers served the purpose! All these
brought into hatred and contempt the King
and Queen of Afghanistan.
The Afghan is really a lovable fellow.
Fearless, full of courage, fond of a scrap,
loyal to a degree, his word is his bond.
Biit you must leave his creed, his caste
prejudices and his womenfolk alone. A
loyal friend, he makes a bitter enemy, and
his enmity is not good unless you are fond
of cold steel in your back.
So Afghanistan is now seething. Inayat-
Allah (“Gift of God), Amanullah’s elder
brother and rightful heir to the throne, is
in favor, probably being helped by tne
Soviet of Russia. It would not be sur-
prising to see him at the head of the revolt-
ing troops, financed by Red gold, lo me
nothing seems surer than that Amanullah s
race is run. How long Inayat-Allah will
last is in the lap of the gods. But at any
cost the British Legation must be protected.
A religious and tribal rising is always bitter.
And if Christians suffer there is paradise tor
the ghazi, or religious murderer. They must
not be permitted to suffer.
H. D. PETTERS.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Feathered Whale.
“The British Economic Mission now with us has
many economic problems set it. No others are more
important than the problems of finance. To these
Sir Ernest Clark, finance member of the Com-
mission, will address himself. The report, so far as
finance is concerned, it has been stated, will lay
the strongest emphasis on the establishment ot a
sound financial policy for all Australia, irrespective
of political or other considerations. That emphasis
is the best guarantee we have for the presentation
of a tangible scheme to which the people of Aus-
tralia look forward with hope. We are sure, too,
that Governments, irrespective of what party they
represent, will welcome a successful outcome to
the labors of the mission.” —S. M. Herald,
Despite all the mystery which is made over
the matter, the Australian financial position
isn’t a maze, or a labyrinth, nor is it a
Sherlock Holmes problem concerning a
Hound of Baskervilles, nor even an old-
fashioned Mystery of a Hansom Cab. In
the first place, the country has too many
foolish laws for the direct or indirect dis-
couragement of hired industry. And while
it is desired to encourage the small or
middling farmer to farm and the small or
middling boy to learn the art, disappoint-
ment is always on the lurk in the offing.
The boy’s wage has a tendency to go up to
a full man’s rate long before he is a full
man, and if the farm can’t stand the strain
his hope of developing into an independent
agricultural producer is apt to be blighted,
and he may degenerate into a city product
instead. While wages still tend to rise, on
paper, anyhow, and working hours to dimin-
ish, the unions which furnish returns stated
that the proportion of their members who
were unemployed within the meaning of
the Act was 114 per 1000 in the third quarter
of 1928. As that was exactly twice as many
as during the last quarter of 1926, the posi-
tion is far from improving.
At this appropriate season, the N. S.
"Wales Government has started its Wyan-
gala reservoir, which is to be the means of
planting 700 new settlers on the land at a
cost of £3OOO each. Thus, each new settler
will be liable for about £l5O per annum,
due to persons in England, when the interest
bill gets into full bearing, even if he doesn’t
notice the fact. And when he has got his
farm free of debt he will still be liable for
£l5O per annum due to persons in England,
though he may not be aware of the fact
(liable as a member of the community if
not individually), unless a radical change
comes over the situation created by the
combination of insufficient production and
the high standard of living. He may pay
for his block of land with paper money,
and the Government may pay off some local
debt with the proceeds, but nothing save a
regular surplus of exports will shift the over-
seas liability off Wyangala.
Mr. Bruce and papers like the S. M.
Herald take up the attitude that Australia is
an unaccountable phenomenon like a dead
whale with feathers floating on the sea of
events. Hence the importation of a quar-
tette of advisers. They can doubtless sug-
gest a number of obvious measures tending
to economy and the increase of produc-
tion. Far more important is it to get the
.popular majority to acquire a new
frame of mind and a new industrial
outlook. All the cures for dipsomania begin
with the stipulation that the dipsomaniac
must want to be cured. The alternative is
to throw democracy overboard and save the
country in spite of itself. But that calls for a
Mussolini, and this paper hasn’t noticed
one about. A Mussolini, junior, might
adopt the device of reducing imports by the
absolute prohibition of a long list of goods
from overseas; but it is too much to expect
the Four oracles to throw all their British
traditions to the wind and do anything so
drastic as that.
Which suggests that later we may
possibly need an Australian Economic Com-
mission to inquire into the English Eco-
nomic Commission’s report.
♦
Lead Us Not Into Temptation!
“This woman is in very delicate health.
She has been a most respectable married
woman,” pleaded a solicitor in a Melbourne
court on behalf of his client, charged with
having stolen articles valued at 16s. sd.
from a popular shop. The presiding magis-
trate sentenced her to seven days’ imprison-
mnet, refusing to release her on bond,
though a first offender. “The same story” of
respectability and of momentary weakness
was, he said, “told by about 19 out of every
20 women who come here.”
If that is true, as it doubtless is, does it
not suggest that some tremendous strain,
some entirely exceptional strain, has been
put upon these women?
The old-time shopkeeper kept his portable
goods on the shelves behind his counter,
in the shut-off space of his display windows,
or in glass cases. He enabled his customers
to see what he had to sell, but did not so
expose the goods as to be handled at will.


THE SUPER-SALESMAN.
“Fader Gris’mas, mein friendt, I gongratulate mit you. You are der best salesman der poor importer haf in all der world.”
Contrast that with the modem practice:
Down long lanes in the great building
stretch counters on which in box and basket
are the products the shopkeeper has to sell.
Women and children crowd on each other
in these confined spaces. The attractive
objects so tempting to these customers are
there not only to look at but to handle.
Temptation is brought under their noses;
nay, even into their hands. They are de-
liberately led'into it in order to incite the
desire to buy.
Without discounting the value of ethical
teaching, and without any desire to under-
value the vital importance of individual re-
straint and moral principle, The Bulletin
asks if there is not something to be said on
the evil of leading our neighbors into temp-
tation.
Legislation has been proposed to check
this growing epidemic of shop-pilfering. It
is suggested that in any such legislation
reasonable provision should be made to re-
strain not only the pilferer but also the
-provocateur.
- ♦
Foes of Our Own House.
A South African citizen, lately returned
from Australia, has been painting a vorticist
picture of conditions here. Our country is
a nest of crime, with secret societies,
bombers, unions and gunmen ruling the
roost, and the larger cities are at the mercy
of “gang leaders,” while to venture out in
some quarters at night is to court death
by violence. The unions own the country,
and save by their favor no man is able to
get work. There is a hectoring spirit abroad,
too, which extends even to sport.
The picture is exaggerated, of course;
yet there is enough excuse for this credulous
bird of passage’s story to make us feel
uncomfortable. Crimes of violence have
increased in Australia during the past few
years; and the Melbourne bombing and.
the Sydney razor-slashing cases are a not
unstable foundation -on which to rear a
plausible edifice of exaggeration. The pre-
valence of a dangerously elastic credit
system has induced both the nation and
many of its individual citizens to live out-
rageously beyond their means. Production
is limited by a thousand handicaps, and
producers generally are content to turn out
the bare minimum necessary to earn the
artificially fixed wages, and are encouraged
in this by unions and arbitration
courts. Even the charge of a hectoring
spirit in sport is not without foundation, as
the preliminary vaporings which marked
the commencement of the Test matches
showed clearly enough.
Yet there is plenty of evidence that the
Australian people are willing to face trials
and emergencies with indomitable energy
and courage, and this is not intended to
apply to the story of the A.I.F. alone.
Like most young nations Australia is
plagued with social and political em-
pirics, as the infant is afflicted with measles
and whooping cough. But in spite of out-
ward manifestations of a disturbing kind
occasionally, the nation has always rung true
to sanity and the sense of duty when it
has been aroused to the test. Our present
worst trouble is that so many of us refuse
to see that any crisis has been reached.
On the contrary, there is a constant tendency
to dope ourselves more and more heavily.
A considerable and vociferous section of the
press is almost entirely devoted to the
chronicling of rapes, divorces, assassinations
and other catchpenny items. Little atten-
tion is given to serious matters of national
import. Small wonder that the reader who
runs should get it into his head that these
things and the baser forms of sport con-
stitute the chief interest in life for the
Australian.
0
Motorists in Two States.
“Chevroford” : Having just returned from
a tour of N. S. Wales, I have had an oppor-
tunity, as a Victorian motorist, of comparing
the two States from a petrolitizen’s point
of view. The thing that struck me hardest
was that the R.A.C.V., the Vic. organisa-
tion, could tear a leaf, or several leaves,
out of the book of the N.R.M.A.
The N. S. Whales association appears to
supply a State-wide service, while the
R.A.C.V. confines most of its activities to
a 50-mile radius of Melbourne. At Goul-
burn I found a polite young man in the
N.R.M.A. office who told me if I had a
breakdown within reach of that centre a
’phone ring would bring a patrolman to
the rescue. Also, motor-camps licensed by
the N.R.M.A. are everywhere. There are
100 approved ones on their list, and if any-
body wants anything better than the ti-tree
haunts within earshot of the South Coast
surf, or the blossom-embowered spot at
Goulburn, or “Old Woodbine” at Moss Vale,
with its spotless bedrooms, e. 1., h. and c.
water, and its sweet-smelling glassed-in
smoke-room-conservatory—well, he is'hard
to please. In Vic., except at Lakes Entrance
and a few other spots, the motorist has
to patronise that barbarous blot on Aus-
tralian civilisation, the country pub.
All the same, not wishing to die yet, I
would sooner drive in Vic. than in the Ma
State. Of course, drivers are not all the
same in either State; but where you will
find one discourteous driver in Vic. you
will find three in N. S. Wales, and I saw
more breaches of traffic rules in Sydney
and environs in a week than you would
see in Melbourne in a twelvemonth; more-
•over the traffic cops smiled sweetly, and
pedestrians and motorists generally took it
all as a matter of course. In Melbourne
when one wishes to take the right-hand turn
in heavy traffic one draws out to the left
and waits for an opening. On the Gordon-
road in Sydney (surely the nightmare
thoroughfare of the whole green world), one
abruptly shoves out one’s cigarette-holder,
and, while the scream of hastily-applied
brakes echoes along the street for half a
mile behind one, bullocks an opening
through the procession of approaching cars,
which nre also being reined back on their
haunch l A
O
The “Dignity” of Parliament.
Dear Bulletin, —I lately achieved the
notoriety of abusing the dignity of the Leg.
Assembly of N. S. Wales by taking off my
coat and working in the Press Gallery in
my shirt sleeves! It was a nice blue shirt,
and it was a hot day. Still if, by retaining
my coat on hot days, I can assist in giving
Parliament a semblance of dignity and pro-
portion, I shall be repaid for my perspira-
tion.
It is time Parliament “took a tumble” to
itself, or N. S. Wales took a tumble to
Parliament. The Budget debate was a
farce. Instead of intelligently discussing
the appalling financial commitments of the
State for the coming year, members released
private feuds and made long “personal
explanations.” Ness indignantly took the
floor and said thp,t personal abuse was
“degrading.” It was time members tried to
win back the respect of their constituents.
“What about Tom Hoskins?” the
Opposition. Ness bridled. “I fixed Tom
Hoskins!” he bellowed, “and I’ll fix him
again!”
Alderman Williams of Coraki has
gone home to tell Coraki about the
“uncouth behavior” of Parliament; it could
take a lesson from municipal councils, he
added. Probably the alderman heard
Keegan call Thorby a “police pimp”; Lee
call Lysaght “Rasputin”; Davidson call
Thorby an “impudent fool.” Probably
he listened, day after day, to roars, yells,
screams, abuse, cat-calls and cries of “Ned
Kellys ! Bushrangers!..... Bolsheviks! ”
Probably he saw the maddening irritation
tactics of Lang met by the studied inso-
lence of Bavin. Probably he wondered how
the State was still going strong.
What Parliament needs, not so much as
dignity, is discipline. No member has been
ejected this session, because no one has
been strong enough to do it. Speaker Levy
does nothing but shout “Order!” through
the din. For collarless and tieless members
to look horrified because a pressman toiling
in his gallery sheds his coat is a very pitiful
gesture.—Yours, etc., Jacky Roo.
*
1928-29.
The Bulletin cannot close this page
without saying thank-you to the year which
has almost slipped by. So far as this office
is concerned it has been a period of extra-
ordinary progress. We lately had the
pleasure of reporting that the output of
magazine-papers in one month had easily
passed the million mark; and in one State
the increase in the circulation of The Bulle-
tin inside 12 months was 84 per cent.
In The Bulletin itself, as well as in
the Woman’s Mirror and “Wild Cat”
Monthly, while the character of the paper
has been strictly preserved, a long pro-
gramme of expansion and improvement has
been well launched. During the year
“Coonardoo,” the back-country story to
which the judges awarded one of The
Bulletin £5OO prizes, has been printed
serially; and within the next few months
the judges’ first choice, to which also a
prize of £5OO was given, will be printed
under the title of “The Quartermaster.”
Only this shall be said of it here: that,
besides being interesting as a story, it offers
the finest gallery of word-pictures ever
painted of Sydney in the stirring thirties,
forties and fifties of last century.
But, after all, The Bulletin has more
important work on hand than even the pro-
motion of Australian literature. So far as
finance is concerned this country has quite
lost its head; and the astounding thing is
that there is hardly a leader of finance or
industry who does not realise it. But the
politician has taken charge, and, whether
Nationalist or Labor, he is the country's
greatest menace to-day. Unfortunately the
vast majority of the newspapers are
taking the easy way, and speaking no ill oi
the nation’s ill-founded prosperity. The
Bulletin refuses to join in this cheap
chorus. It knows that the more this genera-
tion borrows, the more the next generation
will have to pay; the more this generation
loafs, the more the next generation will have
to labor; the more this generation shirks,
the more the next generation will have to
shoulder. The Bulletin wishes the Aus-
tralia that is so close to its heart a happy
year; but it warns it against seeking a
happy to-day at the expense of many un-
happy to-morrows.
*
“Stellsby”: I wrote in The Bulletin that
all the door and sash frames in the Govern-
ment High School now in course of erection
in Melbourne were made of imported pine.
Ex-Works Minister Jones replied that
“yellow pine and blackwood, both Austra-
lian timbers, are being used on the job.”
I would remind Mr. Jones that yellow pine
is not grown in Australia; what is more,
this American product comprises 75 per
cent, of the timber used. The quantity of
blackwood is so small that it would be
doing the ex-Minister a kindness not to
mention it. Why wasn’t our mountain-ash
given preference as formerly?
: ♦
“Registraris-Episcopus” : “Bringing Dis-
establishment Nearer” (B. 19/12/’2B) mis-
understands the position:—
(1) The new commentary is concerned
with the task of reconciling legitimate criti-
cism with the traditional creeds, and is
written from the point of view of the Anglo-
Catholic and not the Modernist.
(2) The taxpayer does not pay for the
Established Church, and not one penny of
either direct or indirect taxation is ex-
pended on the Established Church.
(3) Even if it were true that public
moneys went to the upkeep of the Established
Church, neither Gore nor Barnes would be
affected, for Gore is living in voluntary
retirement and Barnes’s see. is a new crea-
tion, the endowment for which was raised
in recent times by voluntary subscription.
(4) If by “the nation’s beliefs” the writer
means the creeds of the church, then these
do not involve anyone in a belief in the
literal interpretation of the Old Testament
story of the Creation, Balaam’s ass,
Jonah’s whale and so on.
There is a reasonable interpretation of all
these things which is not incompatible with
thorough loyalty.
♦
“Feng-Shui” : The business of militarising
Asia is still as much a European side-line as
it was when General Gordon fashioned his
ever-victorious Yellow army, and Prussian
officers organised the forces of Dai-Nippon.
It was our old friend Field-Marshal Luden-
dorf, and not Chiang Kai-Shek, who won
Peking for the Cantonese. Ludendorf was
actually offered the supreme command, but
he sent out a strong corps of war veterans
instead, the too politically-minded Russians
having previously been sacked. As an ex-
British general was chief adviser of the
late Northern leader Chang Tso-lin, the
recent scrap in China might almost be re-
garded as a postscript to the European war.


d d
Shell Oils succeed
97.52 m.p.h.' on a Twin Port T.T. Triumph Motor Cycle—
one of the fastest times ever recorded on the road in Australia—
was put up by Sid. Goodsell in the recent flying hrmile challenge.
Shell Motor Oil, chosen for this sensational dash, demonstrated its
faultless lubricating properties under terrific speeds .
SHELL MOTOR OILS
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE FROM SEALED EQUIPMENT
o v £2'
POMTKAL
POINTS
When the charlady knitted, him a. jazz
pullover
And the office-boy handed over a pair
of pedigree white mice,
Jones knew that Christmas had come.
SIGNS OF CHRISTMAS.
When P. P. Abbott went down in the
N.S.W. Senate election the A.L.P. won the
first seat it has wrested from the Country
party since that party arrived in Federal
politics nine years ago. Abbott has the con-
solation of knowing that he got far and away
the greatest number of primary votes ever
polled by a Country-party man. He scored
220,089 as compared with 136,439 in 1925,
when he was elected for three years. On
the other hand, the N.S.W. Nationalist
Senate vote dropped from 426,144 three
years ago to 330,847 last month.
The LPjS.A. is putting a new special duty
on Australian butter. As it took only £4550 .
worth in 1927-28 and £9 worth the year
before, the act won’t do us much harm or it
much good. Still, there is nothing to pre-
vent the Bruce-Page putting a new special
duty on U.S. moving-pictures if it feels like
hitting back.
Westralia downed Prohibition by 77,113 to
41,362 in 1925. Under the provisions of the
1911 Licensing Act, another poll is due in
1930, but, fortified by the smashing defeats
of the Drys in N. S. Wales and Maoriland,
Parliament has put it off till 1935. Vic-
toria will have a Prohibition poll in 1930,
though it really can’t afford the costly
futility.
There are a few cheerful features, after
all, about the M.B.W. figures which show
that the Sydney metropolitan area spent
£16,100,000 in the past year on buildings—
as against £10,133,000 no later than 1923.
It still is possible for home-builders to get
premises that don't run them into four
figures. At Mosman the average cost was
about £l7OO and at Randwick £l5OO, while
at Vaucluse it just passed £2000; but at
Bankstown and Canterbury, where close on
2000 new homes went up, the average c..>st
was £6OO in one case and £SOO in the other.
In 1914 Sydney (metropolitan area) got
10,546 new buildings for 6| millions; in the
past year it spent over 16 millions and got
only 1324 more. Of course the figures don’t
mean only that it costs three times as much
to lay a brick as it used to; part of the
terrific increase in the average per building
is due to the fact that more huge flats are
put together nowadays. But that’s nothing
to the good from the point of view of a
country that wants population. Flat life
is the greatest contraceptive ever discovered.
lOUseph Ward, who has resumed business
as Premier of Maoriland, began by raising
the subsidy to local bodies for the aid of
unemployment from £300,000 to £400,000,
and adding £825,000 immediately to the vote
for railways and other works. He wants
authority to borrow enough “for the acquisi-
tion of lands for the settlement of 75,000 to
100,000 people.” Thus armed and equipped
he thinks he can go into recess for about six
months and be out of the way of trouble.
R. 11. S. Abbott, sometime of the Vic. Jueg.
Council, will draw the Senatorial salary—
there will be little else to do —for the expired
portion of the late David Andrew’s term.
Senator-elect Bob Elliott was nominated at
the joint sitting of State Parliamentarians,
but was beaten by 5S to 33. They are both
Cockies, and the contest was friendly as far
as they are concerned. Cockies take a more
philosophic view of these matters than mem-
bers of parties which don’t believe in “the
open go.”
Demands for payment of State income-tax
within a month and Federal income-tax
within two months were included in the
Christmas greetings to South Australians.
Lionel Hill, leader of the Opposition, blames
Premier Butler for the State’s share of the
unseasonable greetings, and says that gentle-
man is “running true to form.” Lionel him-
self wants another huge loan for “works to
absorb the unemployed.”. He also is run-
ning true to form.
After a great struggle the Full Arbitration
Court decided by two Judges to one (Beeby)
that 48 hours per week is a fair thing in
the timber industry. Said industry has been
in poor condition for some time, and even a
48-hour week will not make it robust. But
the Beeby attitude is that if industry in the
aggregate can remain alive with a minimum
of exertion, supplemented by a big borrowing
policy, it is a sacred duty to stick to the
minimum of exertion.
The N.S.W. Government, with that ener-
getic financial reformer Stevens in apparent
charge of the Treasury, proposes to spend
£14,580,609 of loan money for the year to
June, 1929. That is £173,000 more than last
year’s figure, and not far short of the record
loan burst of 1920-21, which was £14,701.028.
About £5,000,000 is unproductive, wherefore
Stevens and co. will be shouting for another
£280,000 or so of additional taxes next year.
A good deal of the other loan works will
pay only a part of the interest, and some
of them will pay none and may even fail to
meet working expenses, and that may raise
the new demand next year to half a mil-
lion.
Last June N.S.W. owed £244,435,261, and
the earnings of its loan works paid interest
on less than two-thirds of that sum. There-
fore the Auditor-General puts down
£62,065,043 as unproductive or deadweight.
The new proposal to charge to loans interest
incurred while a work is in an unfinished
£62,065,543 as unproductive or deadweight.
It is evidently the policy of the Bavin
Ministry to get votes by the lavish distri-
bution of works, and to avoid the loss of
votes by leaving the bill to the infant. The
idea is that things will right themselves the
same as a ship, but when a ship leans over
sufficiently it never comes right again.
The trade-unions in the British Textile
industries have issued a report that they are
sick of Cobden and all his works, and have
formally joined up with the employers in
demanding Protection. Their view is that
“it is unreasonable to expect British work-
men to be martyrs to the Freetrade prin-
ciple,” and it is especially unreasonable to be
a solitary martyr after losing most of the old
faith in the principle. The absurdity of a
Christian dying at the stake in defence of
Mohammedanism is bound to dawn on people
sooner or later.
A short term in Macquarie-street has had
an odd effect on *Peter Connolly, Labor mem-
ber for Newcastle, who was regarded as
rather a grave and dignified fellow when
secretary of the local Ironworkers’ Union.
By way of embarrassing the Bavinsliaws
Peter lay .flat on his stomach behind the
benches while a division was being taken.
When it was over he emerged delightedly
from his hiding-place, and heads had to be
counted all over again. Still, the pranks of
the nursery are doubtless more worthy of
imitation than those of the gutter.
Some day somebody may tell the full
story of how the Taronga Park Zoo, now
one of the delights of Sydney, came into
existence. The little zoological society
had got a grant of land at Bradley’s Head,
having to shift from Moore Park, and it
was going very modestly to work preparing
the ground when the Holman Government
was confronted by unemployed seeking jobs.
In vain Holman told them about Norton
Griffiths and the North Coast railway;
they wanted a job nearer home. Holman
didn’t know what excuse to make for
obliging them, and their yells were getting
louder and louder. Then Fred Flowers
had a brain wave. The Government could build
the Zoo, give the unemployed jobs, and pose
as a public benefactor too. Of course the
little society jumped at the chance; and,
incidentally, Fred Flowers got another job
as chairman of the Taronga Park Trust,
A power of money has been wasted there,
but great things have been done, neverthe-
less.
The, N.S.W. Full Industrial Court has
011o 11 An a PPbcat!on of a trade umo
official that Government re Jjcf work must
carry full award wages, holiday pay pay-
ment for travelling time and so forth. In
tact, the State must act the same as a private
employer. Differences are that the private
employer makes money by his business, while
the State has hardly even a sketchy hope
that it will make anything by sending men
to sand-shifting jobs and the like; also
Private Enterprise aims at employing experts
and wants to keep them, while the State is
as willing to lose the needy for
finds relief work as Britain is to lose
cipients of the dole. If the State can
help the distressed except on terms w lie
may make it worth their while to remain a
tressed it may develop a tendency to freeze.
A representative of European capital has
dropped into Australia’s Christmas stocking
a promise to spend £3,000,000 on a coal
products plant on the northern N.S.W • oeld,
“if negotiations are successful.” Also tut;
Imperial Chemical Industries concern is about
to discuss a project for the manufacture of
nitrates —£5,000,000 is mentioned witu
Gepp, of the Development and Migration
Commission. For years the Brunner Mona
Co., of which the present Lord Melchett was
the head, had ideas about extracting chemi-
cals from Westralian lakes which are
miniature Dead Seas, but nothing came or
them. However, Melchett, it seems, regards
Australia as one of the world’s biggest nelils
for chemical development,” and it may have
some bearing on the matter that since he
left the Lloyd George crowd he has cleared
his mind of cant about Freetrade.
Six members of the AVestralian Leg. Coun-
cil have reported to that body, after taking
piles of evidence, that there has been riotous
waste on Labor Government road construc-
tion in their State. They estimate that the
Canning-road, a Perth highway of secondary
importance, is costing £15,000 a mile. And
they are satisfied that a horde of Labor-
unionists without plans, tents or proper tools
was rushed into the Greenough electorate
just before the State rolls closed to save a
shaky Labor member :
Of these, 135 voted at the general election, when
Kennedy (Labor) was returned by a majority of
as against 25 in 1924.
The cream of the Greenough “joke” is that
the authors drew on the Commonwealth
mugs, the “Tories,” for the money.
The Goulburn (N.S.W.) Council is accus-
tomed to dam up the Wollondilly River with
sandbags when the thermometer begins to
roost high. For years the local Bolshevik
movement or something of the sort lias_ spent
much labor at making a big hole in the
dam and letting the hoarded fluid escape,
And on three occasions at Lithgow some-
hag fooled with the 10in . main and
, , , , T , ,
turned the water supply loose. It may be
P. the Red Hag scheme to disperse
the capitalist and revise the whole plan of
civilisation; anyhow the persistence of the
in a given.place is against.the idea
ft* the work of .a casually bedevilled
h f ° jglnof him ' * 1 h th 1
5 ate 3 toe sight ot him.
The Union for the Abolition of Vivisec-
tion, which has a branch in Victoria, is pre-
senting the familiar demands for legislation
to make animal experimentation an indict-
able offence. One rev. gentleman points out
that, whereas the S.P.C.A. prosecutes those
because the S.P.C.A. is run by persons with
i o gi ca i minds. Overloading horses is short-
sighted brutality. Inoculating horses (as it
is done at the Commonwealth Laboratory at
Royal park) has led to the discovery of serums
w hich control hog cholera, hoof and mouth
disease, puerperal sepsis in cattle, fowl
plague, hydrophobia in dogs, tuberculosis in
cows and a w h o l e regiment of worm troubles
which cause endless suffering amongst the
dumb creation. And the inoculated horses
suffer only slight indisposition.
THE TRIPESHOP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“During the debate on the Estimates in the N.S.W.
Assembly Mr. Bennett (Nat.) referred mournfully to
‘all the tripe that’s spoken here.’ ”
His well-loved land, the deathless Cause
For which he fights, the thankless lot
Of those who help to frame the laws —
All, for the moment, were forgot-.
Sudden, in this Witan’gemot,
He sensed a feature far more clear.
“O God,” he cried in accents hot,
“Think of the tripe that’s spoken here!”
His mind strayed back to the applause
He won for putting on the pot
Of demagogues with iron jaws
When Lang’s and Labor’s bolts were shot.
“I won the fight,” he mused, "but what
A mockery does the prize appear—
To have to listen to the rot
And fearsome tripe that’s bellowed here!”
He meditated: “Men should pause
Ere envying the patriot
The sev’nteen quid a week he draws
In this excruciating spot.
A cushy job they hold we’ve got
In an exalted atmosphere.
Quot homines, sententice tot.
Think of the tripe unloaded here.”
Put in my stocking, Santa Claus,
I prithee, anything whate’er
Except a seat where crosscut saws
Of speech are used for splitting straws.
Think of the tripe that’s babbled there!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETU
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
DEADLY DUDS.
INQUIRING SHE “I bet you weren’t such a dandy in France!"
MILITARY HE: “Gee, wasn’t I! Why, we all dressed to kill there!”
“Sol M.”: iChina may, as alleged, be
experiencing a new birth, like Celtic Ireland
and in a less degree Turkey, but its law
courts and its pirates and its medical pro-
cesses are still backward. In the matter
of Percy Chung Gow, of Sydney, very much
deceased, a witness testified to the existence
of a Chinese medicine called Fwo Quels
Muck Qure, which contains crushed tiger’s
bones and costs 15s. a bottle. Only a very
credulous individual would expect to get a
genuine crushed tiger at the price, but the
name is certainly all right, especially the
Muck.
“F.H.W.” : Recent pars about service chev-
rons remind me that my name is Mud with
one dear old London lady. When Darky and
I were on leave together in 1918 we met
her on the top of an omnibus. “And what
are those red and blue things on your sleeve
for?” she asked' Darky. “Oh, the red one
shows I’m married and the blue ones show
I’ve got three kids,” the rascal replied
solemnly. Then her eyes roved to my sleeve
and she appeared to grasp the significance
of my three blue chevrons, with the red one
conspicuously absent. She stiffened and left
the conveyance with what sounded like a
sniff of disapproval at my laches before I
had the chance to explain that my wife was
dead.
* * * *
“Murkah”: The audion-receiver of wire-
less is to be utilised to notify the approach
o f earthquakes.
These are always
preceded by a
series of minute
tremors as sections
of rock, measurable
in cubic miles,
grumble in their
sleep along the line
of fracture. The
seismograph can
note these tremors,
but it has limita-
tions when it comes
to placing them.
It seems likely
that the rad i o
valve, capable of
detecting and mag-
nifying ten-million-
ths of a watt
(743 watts equal
1 h.p.) into loud-
speaker strength,
will be able to
assist. Recently a
condenser, one
plate steady on the
concrete bed and
the other on the
rocking-arm, was
superimposed o n
the seismograph,
with the ultra-
sensitive audion
also “in the cir-
cuit.” It is con-
fidently believed
that any variation
in the relative posi-
tion of the con-
denser-plates, even
of the order of bil-
lionths of an inch,
will thereby be noted and amplified. In short,
the next big earthquake will be “heard
coming.” Probably nine-tenths of the horrors
of .an earthquake result from its snake-
strike suddenness of attack. If radio can
give the alarm days ahead, what a saving
in human lives must result!
* * * *
“Clifford Snook”: A French Judge, in
granting a United States lady a divorce on
the ground of cruelty, went into an unex-
pected side-issue. He said that husband and
wife shouldn’t be habitual bridge partners
if the lady is a bad player and the husband
is the kind of man who can’t forbear from
spanking his missus at the eard-table when
she spoils his game. Still, it was only super-
ficial wisdom. Assuming that the party con-
sists of Mr. and Mrs. Smith and Mr. and
Mrs 1 . Jones, the situation wouldn’t be im-
proved if the men exchanged partners and
Mr. Smith smacked Mrs. Jones instead. And
if the next deal led to Mr. Jones slapping
Mrs. Smith there might be even worse ill-
especially if each husband whipped
his wife afresh when he got her home, being
soured by his losses. Only married women
who are big enough to defend themselves
should play bridge.
* * * *
“Morkrum” : What a lot of difference one
letter can make in a telegram! A Melbourne
man temporarily in Sydney wired his wife:
“Home to-morrow. Going into hospital.” It
reached the lady with the initial “h” turned
into “c.” She taxied to Spencer-street
station just in time to catch the Sydney
express; not long afterwards he was. sitting
in the 7.50 p.m. Melbourne express, tearing
south. The pair whizzed past each other
between Cootamundra and Harden and
reached the opposite ends about noon next
day. Then the long-distance ’phone was
set going, and the lady returned to
Melbourne that night. A 1200-mile journey
is an expensive outing these times, but the
Telegraph Branch, of course, sheltered behind
departmental rules and regulations, which
protect everybody except the public. Stiff,
it is only fair to record that the department
offered to refund the cost of the hashed tele-
gram—ls. 4d.!
* * * *
“10-2-4”: The French won't be sorry to
hear of King Amanullah’s troubles. He was
about the most disliked (and privately de-
rided) monarch that has visited Pans in
recent years. The Government was all out to
impress him (as, of course, the British Gov-
LITTLE THINGS THAT HELP TO MAKE THE SEASIDE PLEASANT.
FAIR OWNER: “Oh, you’re lucky—he doesn’t often take to strangers like that!”
ernment was, too) since his next port of call
was to be Moscow. The French hired an
entire floor of a famous hotel for him and
his retinue (as the British did), and paid
all his other expenses. But they were mad-
dened by his habit of wandering into jewel-
lers’ shops in the Rue de la Paix, ordering
expensive gifts for favorites and hav-
ing the bills sent to the Foreign Office.
The British Government had to face
a similar situation, but it did not cause
so much furious comment in the U.K.,
the British being less thrifty than the
French, and more accustomed to the ways
of savage potentates. Also, they were even
more interested than the French in winning
the approval of the Afghan ruler.
* # *
“lan C.” : It is pretty clear, as Bulletin
writers have suggested, that Chinks leave it
to the coach-painters who furbish up their
vegetable vans to select trade names for
them. It is also evident that some of the
painters contrive a pleasant play upon words.
Among the names I have noted on vans in
Melb. or suburbs recently are Kwiet Lee,
Wun Lung, Look On, Thin Cove and Cliuen
Gum.
* * ❖ ❖
“Roka”: The latest variant of the super-
economical young woman turned up at a
suburban post office the other day. She was
sending a telegram to another State, and
after the six letters comprising the address
the rest of the message consisted of the word
“Yes” repeated eleven times. The puzzled
operators would probably have been inter-
ested to learn that it was a reply, to a pro-
posal of marriage, and that the repetition
was merely due to a dislike of wasting spaces
that could be filled with words free of cost.
♦ * * *
“X.D.”: One of the busiest charitable
institutions in Melbourne is the Lost Dogs’
Home. Last year 7491 assorted canines
were handled. They ranged from the rem-
nants of the hordes of miserable mongrels
that used to infest the streets to pedigreed
Alsatians hotly pursued by their owners. Of
the total, 1314 dogs were sold, 1059 claimed
and 4857 destroyed in a lethal chamber. The
home comes in for endless abuse, especially
from anti-vivisectionists, though no dogs are
sold for experimental purposes. One sub-
urban council refused the offices of the home
on the ground that it had no straying dogs.
The home asked to be given a day to demon-
strate, and it swept up 200, most of them
diseased. Now most councils welcome the
canine Black Maria.
* * * *
“Pawang”: The medico who makes hay
fever his specialty is liable to be kept busy
all the year round, for there is no season
when some pollen or protein is not bombard-
ing the membranes of the nation’s nose. In
September the capeweed, dandelion, rye and
other grasses begin their work. They slacken
off about Christmas ; then the cosmos carries
on until the dahlias are ready to be pinned
into hubby’s buttonhole by his loving but
disastrous wife. In the winter we have
asthmas due to horse dander, house dust and
a multitude of other things. So pervasive
is this invisible shrapnel that there is no
escape for the suffering sneezer unless he goes
15 miles out to sea. Serums are made from
the plants themselves —-in the case of house
dust the sterilised detritus of the doctor’s
vacuum-cleaner is' used —and it is claimed
that injections sometimes confer immunity
for about a year. Some cases, however,
seem to be beyond the physician’s aid. One
of Victoria’s most brilliant polo-players had
to give up the.game when it was conclu-
sively proved to him that his trouble came
from his mounts. The test is to apply a
minute quantity of the dust to the skin.
If a blister arises sensitiveness to that par-
ticular agent is assumed. I have just under-
gone the process, and mounds indicating sus-
ceptibility to dahlias, roses, house dust and
various grasses are on view. Does anybody
know of a quiet unoccupied iceberg for sale t
* * * *
“X.D.”: An almost-Cliinese conception of
connubial relations in the Mallee was re-
vealed in a divorce case in Melbourne the
other day. The bride was 14 when she mar-
ried, her husband 25. The home he provided
was a room in a house already occupied by
his mother and other members of the femily.
The status of the wife was only different
from that of a domestic servant in that she
got no wages. When more of the relations
dropped in for a night she was relegated to
the bathroom. This irked the lady, being far
removed from the notion of wedded bliss
she had previously absorbed from visits to
the local pictures. If she had been a real
Chinese in China she would doubtless have
joined one of the numerous suicide clubs and
thrown herself into a dam to the plaudits of
her equally-unhappy sisters. Instead, she
took a trip to a neighboring town with a
young man and the suspiciously-liearty
approval of her husband. When the latter
sued for a divorce on the ground of his
wife’s misconduct the Judge dismissed the
petition—though Heaven knows what good
that is going to do.
* * * *
“Chalk Farm’’: There is a vague idea that
the beginnings of London go back beyond
the dawn of British history, but a recent
book by a British Museum pundit, one
Wheeler, pretty well disposes of the tradition.
Wheeler, who has dug deeper into _ Roman
London than any other archaeologist, has
been unable to find the faintest evidence,
structural or otherwise, that any settlement
existed there before the Roman legions came
along. He puts the date of the foundation
of London at about A.i>. 46. If this is so, it
is obvious that many European cities —
Athens, Rome and Paris among them —are
centuries older than London. _ And beside
places like Damascus the British capital is
an infant.
# * * *
“C.Q.”: A Vic. woman, according to the
tale she told the beak in the course of main-
tenance proceedings the other day, had cause
to remember the visit of the American Fleet
in 1925. She was standing with her hus-
band watching the .march of the gobs through
Melbourne when one of Uncle’s gallant sea-
men broke rank and enthusiastically greeted
her. He was an earlier spouse, supposed to
have been in the grave for seven years.
* * * *
“Bumpkin” : Bertram Mackennal’s bust of
War, whose protuberant torso was a prominent
landmark at the top of Bourke-street. Mel-
bourne when it adorned the steps of Parlia-
ment House, is now an arresting fullstop in
the public gardens opposite the Hotel Canberra
at the Capital. One recent morning official-
dom was petrified to learn that a person
or persons unknown had equipped Bellona,
or whoever the lady is, with a set of pink
brassieres, firmly sewn on.
* * * *
“Lex”: According to the S. M. Hekaed
a Sydney firm had some valuable property
stolen the other day. The police were called
in, discovered the thief, and the
plunder. A prosecution was suggested.. >\ e
don’t mean to prosecute,” said the director
who had communicated with the C. 1.8.:
' We had to get that material back, and now that
we have got it back we are quite satisfied. Ibe
man, you see, is indispensable to us. We want the
material and the man, too.
Property-owners of this kind are as popular
in. the world of crime as they are unpopular
in police circles. Malefactors pass their
names and addresses round in the same spirit
as they would announce the glad news that
someone was giving away perfectly good 15-
notes in the street. Their establishments
are sanctuaries for robbers in the sense that
the detectives, once baulked of their prey,
never really try again. Often they tell those
who refuse to prosecute that no more help
can be expected from the C. 1.8. Their job
is to sec that justice is done, and there are
few things they resent so much as being used
as a salvage corps.
BARRED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
“When the Canberra hotels open their bars for
the sale of liquor, no barmaids will pull the pumps.
The authorities have decided that only men shall
serve drinks.”
’Tis good to live at Canberra, to plant your
pegs at Canberra,
And mighty satisfactory for thirsty souls
to know
That very shortly there’ll be lots
Of chances for absorbing spots,
And blowing froth off pewter pots,
And lingering over tids and tots
No longer surreptitiously but coram
publico.
Withal the ointment holds a fly:
They’ll have to mop the malt and rye
With never dainty forms to eye
Behind the pump, a-row,
No ministering Madge, no Vi, .
No Nell, no Flp.
’Tis fine to live at Canberra, to have your
fling at Canberra, _ .
A bracing place, our Capital, despite the
jolts and bumps
And jabs it suffers from the corps
Who earn their pay from ten to four.
And now their snifters out they pour
They won’t be feeling half as sore
Or masticate the rag in such incessant
doleful dumps.
“Wot’s Yours?” will cheerily combine
With “Same Again” and “These Are Mine.”
But wouldn’t suns the brighter shine
And cards seem liker trumps
If there were maids to brim the wine
And pull the pumps?
’Tis good to dwell at Canberra, to tilt your
pint at Canberra,
Nor have to hit, when thirst assails, the
track for Queanbeyan.
Stout Senators no more shall shrink,
Forced with their midday meal to sink
The same unstimulating drink
As cattle on Molonglo’s brink;
Once more they’ll hit the mountain dew or
gulp the black-and-tan.
But none the less the prospect jars
Of tough-jowled males behind the bars
Smoking gratuitous cigars, v
The badge of all their clan,
Instead of Gwen with eyes like stars
Or dimpling Fan.
’Tis fine to dwell at Canberra, to go your
ways at Canberra,
The burden of existence there is lightened,
anyhow.
Yet growls I seem to hear them loose
At Johnny Butters, Page and Bruce,
The chaps who in the hostels sluice
Their necks with alcoholic juice
To some such grace as “Cheerio!” or
“Here’s Another Thou.”
A bar with never a bit o’ skirt
Wherewith to frivol or to flirt!
Old Omar would have deemed it dirt,
You’ll readily allow,
And Canberra may, just as hurt,
Call it a cow!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“A.E.W.”: Touching these human throw-
backs. In the nor’-west of W.A. 1 knew
a woman of pure Saxon type married to a
Chinese. She had three children, half-castes,
and then her consort died. She remarried,
her second husband being English, and the
first consequence of the second venture was
faintly but unmistakably Asiatic. No. 2 (the
person mainly concerned) exhibited no sur-
prise. “Telegony,” he told me. He’d worked
for a dog-fancier in the Cold Country.
* i: *
“Oxmead”: If any country in the
world should have had a sickener of war
it is surely Paraguay, which from 1864 to
1870 waged a game but utterly hopeless fight
against its present antagonist, Bolivia, and
two more powerful neighbors- in Brazil and
Argentina. When the little republic
threw in the towel, for every male
left alive in the country there were ten
females, Scientists who argue about the
factors which go to the determination of
sex used to quote Paraguay as a proof that
nature, if left to herself, may be trusted to
redress the most inequitable balance; for
years after the war, it is asserted, male
births exceeded female in the proportion of
at least 6 to 1. With all this benevolent
interposition of Providence, however, it has
taken the republic nearly 60 years to get
back to the population (800,000) which it
possessed before the war.
■!* * * *
“X.D.” : R. F. Millane, Melbourne’s most
litigious citizen, has charged the chief by-
laws officer of the City Council that “on Nov.'
20 and on other dates since, in the said
bailiwick and State, at Crown lands occu-
pied on the Real Property and Mines Act,
in the abandoned or ‘non-pegged-out’ town
of Melbourne, incorporated under Act 6, Vic.,
1842, N. S. Wales, in the mining district of
Castlemaine, he did unlawfully remove sur-
MORE DARK SUSPICIONS.
“You can’t fool me, my boy—l know a thing or two.”
“Ye-e-s. I was just wondering where you learned them.”
vey or boundary pegs contrary to Section
40 of the Mines Act.” The incident referred
to was the occasion when Millane drove iron
pegs into the middle of the road at the
corner of Collins-place and Collins-street,
and proceeded to proclaim his prize as a
motor-parking area. For this he was charged
with wilful damage, and fined ss. Remarked
the magistrate: “If you do not stop this busi-
ness you will go to prison and be an old
man when you come out. Will you pro-
mise?” Whereat Millane sadly replied: “I
do not think I can.” With some people
litigation is like morphia to a drug addict.
“Lao-dah”: Determined suicides? A bush
hermit of Toolern Yale (Vic.), after failing
to make an end of things by severing an
artery in his wrist, wrote his own finis by
cutting the barrel off an ancient shotgun,
closing one end, filling it with powder and
shot and applying a match to the touch-
hole, while holding the muzzle to his chest.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: Dr. Cilento, the Common-
wealth Director of Tropical Medicine, says
somewhere that mono-
tony is one of the chief
enemies of the white
man in the torrid-zone.
Most of us who have
lived round about the
Equator will agree
with him; few means
of achieving variety
are neglected. On. one
occasion the staff of
a cable station on
Labuan, Borneo,
bound themselves un-
til they were relieved
to let their facial her-
bage grow and keep
their heads shaved—
the last a very painful
process. On another
occasion a bright mem-
ber of a mess sug-
gested living a day
backwards. As soon
as dawn broke or an
hour or two after-
wards their “boys”
brought them their
nightcaps. They then
arose and carefully
donned evening-dress.
Dinner began with the
coffee, proceeded to
the sweets and ended
with soup and gin and
bitters. At 10 a.m.
tennis was played in
the broiling sun, to
the astonishment of
the natives. After-
noon tea followed,
tiffin went backwards
and so on. Breakfast
began at 8 p.m., and
after a hearty plate of
porridge and a bath
six happy empire-builders retired to rest
thoroughly rejuvenated.
* * * *
“Henry Horsecollar” : A considerable time
ago a tale was told of how Ludendorf and
a German Chancellor of the war period put
it to Kaiser William that he might hearten
the army if he went into the trenches. At
the worst he could stop a bullet, thus saving
the life of the man behind him, and it might
be the salvation of the dynasty if he made
his exit like a bitter-ender and a last-ditch
king. William, however, had no desire for
last-ditcliing. More recently it has been
alleged, on the strength of papers left behind
by the deceased Admiral von Scheer, that
the latter promised to get the German. Fleet,
when it was still in good condition, out for
another scrap if William would come as
nominal man in charge and give his best
naval uniform an airing. William, it is
said, received the offer with a colorable imi-
tation of enthusiasm, but later excused him-
self on the plea of a previous engagement,
He ordered the fleet to go without him, but
the disgusted organisation didn’t go. The
chance was lost, yet plenty of poorer chances
have come off, and, whatever happened, the
man who liked to call himself “the Admiral
of the Atlantic” could have made a better
finish than at Doom. There are lashings
of good company at the sea-bottom, and a
sociable Kaiser might have liked to join it
and drink the festive bowl of sea-water with
ghostly heroes of old.
“8.V.E.” : It wasn’t always to initiate a
tender correspondence that English girls sent
their addresses to soldiers from oversea (B.
28/11/’2B). I was wounded on Gallipoli,
sent to England, in Nov., 1915, and presently
arrived in Birmingham. Whilst being driven
through the streets cigarettes, flowers, etc.,
were showered into the cars which were
taking us to hospital-. In a packet of fags I
found a note: “If you have no friends in
Birmingham send us your hospital card.
THE FREE LANCE.
“My, Elsa darling, just fancy; you’re twenty-three and not even engaged!”
“Maybe, dear, but not neglected.”
Signed, Mollie, Clarissa and Sue, c/o Sue
Mendil, Cadbury’s.” I sent my card, and on
the following Sunday three bonnie lassies
were at my bedside, and they couldn’t have
made more of me had I been a long-lost
brother. They were employees of Cadbury’s
chocolate factory and they made my stay in
hospital a very happy one and never missed
a visiting day. They told me the girls all
clubbed together to buy comforts and small
luxuries for the oversea soldiers many
thousands of miles from their homeland.
Naturally some romances began with such
meetings, but for myself I only cherish in-
delible memories of the kindliness of those
sweet English girls, who did their bit during
the war in the only way open to them.
* # * *
“Runa”: M'aoriland makes a good thing
out of the tourist from oversea, but she some-
times complains bitterly of his mischievous
tendencies. Tourists are blamed for the
petering out of Wairoa Geyser, the pret-
tiest of Rotorua’s attractions. This popular
geyser once needed only a small quantity of
soap to make it function, and it was the
custom of the tourist to purloin his l bedroom
cake and unostentatiously drop it down Wai-
roa’s throat. Presently it was found that it
took not one but 30 bars to brake Wairoa
throw its white plume against the sky, and
constant demands, despite the fact that the
vent was securely battened, soon exhausted
the internal arrangements and put the geyser
permanently out of action. Another attrac-
tion that was ruined by the attentions of an
overseas visitor was the big blow-hole at
Piha, on the West Coast. There an angler
put down a charge of dynamite to collect
fish, and, incidentally, destroyed the area of
rock that provided the famous “blow.” To-
day Piha’s blow is a feeble echo of its former
glory.
* * * *
“Ming”: A girl who found herself the
centre of an unusual mix-up visited Australia
the other day to settle her future with Syd-
ney relatives who wanted to claim her. The
tangle began in the war, when the girl’s
mother, then a young war-widow, married
another soldier, and shortly afterwards died.
The stepfather kept the child and educated
her, and when he married a second time
took the girl to England with him. When
he died recently the Australian relatives
heard his widow had married an American,
and they at once claimed the 16-year-old girl,
whereupon her latest parents sent her to
Australia to state her own case. This she
did with much emphasis, saying she was
quite happy with her present guardians. And
as the Sydney relatives considered the legal
tangle would be exceedingly difficult to
unravel they bade her farewell with their
blessing.
* * * *
“J.E.” on the finish of Percy Chung Gow:
He was pure Chinese, married to a handsome half-
caste much younger than himself and living in
Sydney. He and Amelia Frances Gow were blessed
with three quarter-white children, two of whom were
exiled in China for no reason clearly assigned. In
the course of a drab existence in an uninteresting
suburb Amelia Frances (27) struck up a romantic
friendship with Ernest Percival, a young naval
man aged 20, and they were married a few days
after Percy Chung Gow moved off this mundane
sphere; The circumstances led to suspicion, and the
suspicion led to exhumation, and the discovery of
arsenic in the interior led to the sensational trial
of the young husband and wife. Their acquittal
was received with widespread satisfaction.
The trend of the evidence was that Gow was a
morose character, a heavy drinker, a messy feeder
on Chinese herbal concoctions, and in financial diffi-
culties. He refused his wife’s request that he would
move to a hospital. Some arsenical compound
was found in the house; in fact the mistress of the
establishment produced it without any disguise or
hesitation. But there was no attempt to show that
either Amelia Frances or Ernest Percival had acquired,
any such substance anywhere. Less than might have
been expected was said of the hypothesis Chinese
Chung Gow made an end of himself. A e and
put a very moderate value on human ’ .
there was nothing about Gow’s existence 0 te(l
specially valuable, even to himself. If “ e house
tha t the naval youth who hung about od
was his wife’s admirer he may have thoug *
business to die at home and bequeath tn ban(J
dangerous suspicion and a body. The D s of
ir > a rather out-of-date novel, ‘The v special
Powysland,” made an end of himseii tor
purpose, and he was a healthy duke instead of a
Chow in poor health and circumstances,
Anyhow a lot of sentiment goes out towards
the Australian youth of 20 who has shouldered the
burden of a pretty half-caste wife and three quarter-
caste children. There is a streak of the heroic
about him.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Vic. Governor Somers has
introduced and is footing the bill for a novel
camping scheme at Anglesea, outside Gee-
long, this Christmas. Forty boys from indus-
trial concerns and the same number from the
swagger grammar schools are being brought
together under the same tentst There will be
five groups of the democratic mixture, each
under a captain; one is Squadron-leader
F. McNamara, V.C., and another Kent
Hughes, M.L.A. City firms have taken to
the scheme, and have offered moving-picture
programmes, radio sets, gramophones „ and
sporting requisites. The notion is to catch
the human animal young before his mind has
petrified so that he can see the virtues of
the other fellow and tell his “class-conscious”
parents all about it.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: The name of General Sir
Arthur Paget, who died at Cannes the other
day, will always be gratefully remembered
by the writer. It was given to a swanky
and affluent English yeomanry regiment in
a corner of South Africa where our own
“colonial” unit was broke to the wide and
quite unable to purchase dop, even at the
modest price of a bob a quart-bottle. Wan-
dering disconsolately about, I came upon a
trooper of Paget’s Horse struggling help-
fegsly with a large sheep. Said he, “You’re
a colonial, what? Kill this bally thing for
me aud I’ll g i ve you half a sovereign.”
Demanding cash in advance, I complied,
pointing out after the operation that the
fat and certain internal organs of South
African sheep were apt to be poisonous,
Gratefully bestowing a shoulder on me for
my forethought, he departed with the bal-
ance of his sheep. Thus. I and my friends
attained our hearts’ desire—cash for dop and
fat for cooking our awful Kaffir beef issue,
to say nothing of the miscellaneous eating
that is always over when a sheep is dressed,
I can still recall the head the troop acquired
on ten bottles of dop.
.... # #
, ’ .
.' anderdecken : An unusual bit of navi-
gation was perpetrated the other day when
a Sydney hydroplane-owner took his skip-
gadget from Sydney to Newcastle, a
distance of 80 miles, in five minutes under
ie f°ur hours. It was a feat of some note
' n such a frail contrivance as a hydroplane,
al ul in spite of the fact that the adventurer
ran into a sleeping shark and an absent-
minded albatross, liis craft sustained no
casualties. Hydroplanes have crossed the
English Channel more than once, but this is
believed to be a record for “outside work” in
Australia. The outstanding lunacy of the
kind is the Dover-Calais trip by a rowing
e jght many years ago.
” #
~
Manar : Of all professional people, the
doctor is the one who accumulates the larg-
est pile of bad and dubiously collectable
debts. I know one lady, the widow of a
Sydney practitioner, who . found, on going
through her late husband’s books, that in
about five years’ fees, amowqting to £6OOO
had become owing to him. She put them into
the hands of an agency, which succeeded in
rounding up about £l5OO. Most of the
accounts were for services whose importance
could hardly be over-estimated. It is in this
respect that the lawyer has a tremendous
advantage over the doctor, inasmuch as he
generally gets the money first. The man of
drugs, unless he is a specialist, perforce
chalks it up, and in the end is lucky if he
collects five shillings out of every pound
which he has earned.
THE PESSIMIST’S APOLOGIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
“Signor Mussolini stated that many things were
dangerous, from tigers to malarial mosquitoes, but
stupid optimism surpassed all the rest.”
There’s danger in the buzzing of the ’skeet,
There’s menace in the gross unswatted fly.
When orange-peel is scattered on the street,
Parabolas you trace with whirling feet,
And limp, a groaning cripple, till you die.
There’s risk in crossing roads where motors
glide
Unhonking at a trifling forty-five.
Death lurks in various dishes when it’s hot,
And, all too often, in the foaming pot —
You never know when Mors may not
arrive.
The cooling change you welcome may imply
Pneumonic ills or stark rheumatic woe;
But', if the heat continues, probably
An apoplectic fit will lay you by.
Whatever way it goes, you never know.
No use to me the vain, deluding prism
That shows the rainbow to a childish hope.
The squall, the wash-out and the cataclysm
I hail. A plague on purblind Optimism,
By Takc-it-Easy out of Hangman’s Rope.
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.


d
“BLUNTON”
The Comfort
Collar.
A stiff collar —popular f
peaked style—but with J
points rounded to prevent |
rubbing through your I
shirts. Cool—lightweight I
and curved in front to I
stand out from the neck. \
Perfect fit and easy pas- J
sage of your tie are s
guaranteed!
An “Arrow” Collar i
1/9 each; 20/- do z.
fwzzv » mm ».
titfITTWC
Ik st.
Diamond Engagement Rings
of Tasteful Craftsmanship 8
£l4/10/
£27/10/
v< 'A (j
£2l
£lO/10/
£lB/18/
Fine diamonds spec-
ially selected for fire
and &ood colour are
imported direct from
lamous cutters. The
settings of pure plat-
inum and rin&s of 18
ct. &old are made in
our own workrooms,
we can thus offer
exceptional value in
hi&h-&rade rin&s.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
Plain Figures “The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney”
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
Cash Only.
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The oncoming of Christmas was brightened
by the news that the King’s condition had
taken £1 turn for the better, and that his
recovery might now be expected with some
confidence. It is curious to recall that the
illustrious patient, who has long since estab-
lished the enduring impression that he: is
as kindly, decent and conscientious a man
as there is anywhere, once had to bring a
law-suit to dispose of the lying report that
he was a heavy drinker. Nature denied him
a strong constitution; had there been any
truth in the old slander, he could not have
lived through eight days of the illness which
he has withstood for eight weeks.
Walter Carn-
cross, Speaker of
Maoriland’s Le g.
Council, is a native
of Bendigo (Vic.),
but became a Fern-
lander by adoption
at a very early age.
The political land-
slide that put Bal-
lance into o ffi c e
gave Carncross the
Taieri seat, which
he held for 12
years, retiring in
1902. For a while
he was one of the
Seddonite whips,
and showed a great
deal of shrewdness
and diplomacy in
that capacity. He
got his nomination
to the Plush Cham-
ber the year after
he left the House
of Reps., and
graduated through
the chairmanship of
committees to the
Speakership, which
he has held for 10
years. A knight-
hood came his way
in 1922. In private
life he is editor and
proprietor of the
Eltham Argus.
WALTER
CARNCROSS.
Bob Elliott, whose election as Vic. Sena-
tor is to be contested by the A.L.P. in the
Higli Court, had an exciting experience
when he accompanied Earle Page, in the
capacity of friend and adviser, on Page’s
first campaign. The doctor tipped a motor-
car on top of Elliott and Mrs'. Page and
had to give them first aid. Then lie re-
nounced car-driving for ever.
The many-sided W. H. Whiddon, who
stayed on as N.S.W. Commissioner of Taxa-
tion when he reached the retiring age and
for years after, Ministers being loath to lose
his services, has been .allowed to retire at
last; E. J. McMahon, who has been Deputy
Commissioner since 1925, gets the full ap
pointment. Before he joined the service
Whiddon tried innkeeping, among other call-
ings; he was licensee of the Adelaide Hotel
in Park-road, Paddington. And lie is so
capital a musician and chorus master that
J. C. Williamson once offered him a job.
The veteran is also fond of horses, and sees
no harm in backing ’em in a mild way.
When Macfarlan, J., went along the other
day to give Vie. Ministers the information
they required regarding the case of William
Carr, condemned to death for murder, he
was greeted by his brother lan, who. is
Attorney-General. The oldest inhabitant of
the State public offices cannot recall a simi-
lar instance of brothers meeting as Minister
and Judge at a Cabinet council. Carr’s
sentence was commuted to imprisonment for
life. There is a slight doubt about his sanity.
A dauntless Digger was Captain Donald
McLeod, who has answered the final roll-
call in North Westralia —lie was killed by a
fall down a shaft. He left Albany with the
original 12th Battalion and had a forearm
blown off on Gallipoli. Like Meysey-Ham-
mond, who was similarly knocked, Mac
managed to wangle his way back to the firing
line, and saw the business through. After
the war he worked a goldmine single-handed,
in both senses of the term.
Norman Mclvell, dead in Kuala Lumpur
(F.M.S.), was an early secretary of Sydney’s
Millions Club. The 1917 strike gave him an
opportunity to show his organising ability
in the formation and maintenance for several
years of the Shipping Labor Bureau, the
most successful organisation of its kind Aus-
tralia has seen. After the closing of the
bureau he was assistant general manager to
Sydney Ferries, and later was appointed
secretary in Malaya of Alluvial Tin. He
had been only a few months in his new billet
when, the end came.
Herbert Phillipps has been re-elected
chairman of the S. Aus. Savings Bank
trustees, a job he has held for 25 years
already. He is also chairman of the Execu-
tor and Trustee Co. and a crowd of other
bodies, financial, philanthropic and religious.
The fact that he lately had an eighty-first
birthday does not seem to affect his activity
of mind or body at all.
Mrs. Meyrick, the London night-club pro-
prietress who is charged with sly-grog sell-
ing and with bribing the police, is mother-
in-law to two peers. One of her daughters
married the young Earl of Kinnoull after
his divorce this year; the other is Lady de
Clifford, who married the youthful twenty-
sixth baron in 1926. Mrs. Meyrick is the
widow of a doctor. Left during the war
without means and with a family to educate,
she took to the night-club business, and is
said to be now worth £lOO,OOO.
Malefactors welcome the retirement of
William Glendinning Riddell, who for 21
years has been a terror to them as stipen-
diary magistrate at Wellington (M.L.). A
man who never wasted words and had no
sympathy for fools or weaklings, Riddell
earned himself the title of “The Iron Duke”
when fie was lecturer on jurisprudence at
Otago Uni., and the name stuck to him on
the Bench. But he was a good judge of
facts and law, and to win an appeal against
one of his decisions was regarded as a
feather in the wig of any barrister.
Harry Peters, the best-known gallery-
man in Australia, gives up his political
job at the end of the year. When the
Federal Convention was held in the latter
’nineties Peters was already so well up the
ladder that he led the Sydney D.T. team
which covered that big engagement. (The
S. M. Herald sent Donald Murray, who
shortly afterwards left press work to push
his multiplex-telegraphing machine.) Peters
just missed the editorship of the D.T. when
Dr. Ward retired, the directors being dazzled
by Braham’s English testimonials. The
Telegraph was the greatest loser.
The death in England of Major-General
Mike Rimington removes a picturesque per-
sonality of the last Boer War. Mike was
an outrageous practical joker, though under
this he hid a keen intelligence. He spent two
years in the Transvaal before the war
camouflaged as a traveller for a leading
brand of Scotch whisky. He it was who per-
suaded French to gallop through Cronje’s
lines to relieve Kimberley, and he was a very
successful column commander, though his
practice of emptying a rifle magazine at his
advance scouts if he thought they were loaf-
ing on the job made him unpopular with
some people.
Launceston’s new Mayor, R. M. Osborne,
is an Inky Wayfarer. He first handled
type in Wiltshire, and afterwards did
newspaper work in London and America;
then he moved on to Adelaide and estab-
lished a number of city and provincial news-
papers. (Incidentally, the first reporter he
engaged in South Aus. was Hal Colebatcli,
one of the new Westralian Senators.) Sell-
ing out his S. Aus. interests, Osborne
settled in Launceston, where he was elected
an alderman in 1921.
Octavius Beale, who put the Australian
piano-making business on its feet, had the
pluck of a thousand men—and at 78 still has.
He started it in 1893, at one of the gloomiest
moments in Australian history, when the
country had lost most of what little con-
fidence it ever had in itself as a manufac-
turer, and he launched it in Sydney, where
Freetrade was more firmly fixed than any-
where else. Beale began selling things for
the old Melbourne firm of Brooks Robinson
when he was 21, and within four years was
a partner. Four years later (1879) he put
up his own sign.
F. W. Preece, Adelaide’s leading bookseller,
is dead after a short illness at 72. English
by birth, he worked in Melbourne for the
George Robertson firm, and went to S. Aus.
for them; then he had about 20 years with
E. S. Wigg and Son before starting on liis
own account in King William-street. Preece’s
favorite claim was that for a really good and
costly volume he could book as many orders
in Adelaide as any man in Sydney or Mel-
bourne. Two sons carry on the business;
one of their helpers is a son of Lionel Lind-
say, the artist. The family has staged many
good art exhibitions, including one by Nor-
man Lindsay, at which the local Society of
Arts had jibbed.
H. C. GIBSON, who represents the Vic.
Trades Hall Council at the Peace-in-
Industry Conference.
The Father Fahey of the Italian Army
has been paying Australia a visit. He is
Father Salza, who, as a padre with the
troops that kept the Austrians from over-
whelming Italy, and finally broke them, did
more than cheer them on and administer
consolation to the dying. He lias the scars
of old wounds, and a stump where an arm
should be, to show that his was no back-
area job.
Charles Tuckqy, dead in Adelaide, had his
share of local celebrity. He was Mayor of
“the Port,” and then Mayor of the city from
1894 to 1898; he also sat in Parliament,
along with King O’Malley, for the Encounter
Bay district. Then he struck a streak of
bad luck. Tucker faced the consequences
pluckily and made good again.
At least one substantial achievement can
be credited to an Australian politician, Big
Brother Linton, M.L.A., though he wasn’t a
politician when he started the thing, and
many others have helped. In three years
1540 Little Brothers have been brought from
Britain. Two of the early arrivals are
now the owners of 2100 acres of Riverina
soil, with 150 acres of wheat and 1500 sheep.
Recognising that they were both good
grafters and intelligent, their Elder Brother
put them in the way of acquiring this pro-
perty on easy terms.
Vic. Mann, retiring director of the N.S.W.
-National Gallery, who had a send-off from
the trustees the other evening, must sit down
now and put his memories into writing.
There is, for instance, the story of the tall
visitor who was found standing long and
very sadly before the fine picture of the
awful affair at Rorke’s Drift. He turned
out to be the heroic clergyman who is a
central figure in the glorious tragedy and
the painting, and the discovery started a
friendship which brought Mann a bundle of
interesting data about the affair and the
artist who recorded it. Mr. Mann goes out
at the end of the year.
Alexander Riddel, who started the first
newspaper at Broken Hill, and was after-
wards known on many mining-fields in Aus-
tralia. especially Queensland, retired to the
peaceful Oberon district of N. S. Wales to
end his days, and was there lately killed in
a motor accident. An Aberdeen graduate,
he first went missionarying in Livingstone’s
trail in Africa; coming to Australia he was
Temora’s first Presbyterian meenister. From
Temora, he and his wife drove in a cart to
Silverton when the silver-fields started. An-
other Scot, ,T. S. Reid, was doing well with
a paper at Silverton, and Riddel decided to
try his luck with one at the newer Broken
Hill. But he sold out before there was
any money in it, and thereafter mixed radi-
cal journalism and mining. He knew a lot
about the rarer metals, and managed to
make a modest competence out of them.
Legal-knight Francis Dillon Bell, leader
of Maoriland Leg. Council for the last 16
years, relinquished his position the other day
to make room for T. K. Sidey. Bell, who
is named after his father, also a lawyer and
a knight, who formed, in coalition with
Henry Sewell, the first representative Admin-
istration in the Shivery Isles, has been one
of the stout props of the Reform party dur-
ing the whole of its term of office. His know-
ledge of constitutional law is profound, and
for expounding complex legislation the Flush
Chamber has never known his equal. Good-
tempered, reasonable and even generous in
debate, he led the Chamber with pleasant
dignity, and all parties united to pay him
tribute of praise on his retirement. Had
not Fate, as he puts it himself, shoved him
into the Ministry by a “political accident,”
he would long ago have ascended the Supreme
Court Bench. Now, at 77, he looks forward
to a quiet eventide.
Jim Appleby, Deputy District Officer at
Salamoa, has done a lot of pioneering in the
Mandated Territory. He has been through
the gloomy jungles of the Sepik River, where
there are floating islands, and where the
skeeters are so bad that the natives encase
themselves in mud at night or crawl into
fibre bags. During the war Appleby was
mentioned in 'dispatches for work accom-
plished under exceedingly difficult conditions
while leading a punitive expedition in the
Manus district, Admiralty Group. The
natives had butchered some German settlers.
Irvine, C.J,, who is in his seventy-first
year, is at last beginning to look elderly.
Peppery old barristers like Topp used to com-
ment wrathfully on his youthful appearance,
and he retained it until well into middle-age;
until recently, indeed, he would have passed
for a man of 50. Irvine has had a pretty
strenuous time since he first entered public
life as member for Lowan in Vic. Assembly
in 1894. It is nearly 25 years since he
relinquished the Premiership of Vic., and 14
years since he was Federal Attorney-General.
He has been C.J. for 10J years.
William McPherson is Vic.’s thirty-second
Premier and the second of the same name.
The other McP. flourished in 1869-70, when
the colony was trying to find its feet after
15 years of responsible government. Nine
of the Premiers held office more than once;
McCulloch had four innings and Berry, Pea-
cock and Lawson three each.
“O.P.1I.”: The announcement that Maj-
Gen'. Reg Talbot, who was Governor of Vic.
(1904-08), is seriously ill recalls a couple
of yarns about the gentlemanly old chap
while he was rubber-stamping in Melbourne.
At one Parliamentary sessional opening he
left out a page of his speech, which was
printed on one side of the paper, having
turned over two leaves instead of one. A
member (afterwards a Minister) called atten-
tion to the omission. The Speaker (Frank
Madden)was deaf, and so were the morning
papers and Hansard, as Talbot was popular.
At an Agricultural Show lunch at Fleming-
ton the old warrior said that some people
argued that a Governor had no power. To
prove the contrary he produced a copy of
the Government Gazette showing that he
had just made boxthorn a thistle under the
Thistle Act.
E. H. McGowan, who has returned to Vic-
toria on “unlimited leave” after 29 years in
the Chinese Imperial Maritime Customs, has
already dug up some veterans of the service,
notably J. Taylor,
H. D. HALL,
the new
President of
the Board of the
N.S.W.
Government
Savings Bank, who
has the most
sumptuous head-
office in Australia.
of Glen Huntly,
now an importer of
Chinese goods (a
sister does the buy-
ing), and William
Burton, of Mal-
vern. McGowan, a
Bendigonian, joined
as a tide-waiter in
Canton,- and now
ranks as an ap-
praiser in Shang-
hai. He says the
Japs are driving
the Europeans out
of the 1.M.C., and
before long there
will be few left.
“R.P.” : Touching J. P. D. Laurie’s death
(B. 12/12/’2B), .Tosiah Symon and Lancelot
Stirling have become the senior ex-Assembly
men, not ex-Parliamentarians; Stirling, of
course, is still in Parliament. He has been
President of the Upper House since 1901,
and holds what is probably the Australian
record for continuous service in an elective
chamber—upwards of 37 years’ membership
of the Leg. Council. He was first elected to
the Assembly in 1881. Since that time he
has been absent from the legislative halls for
a mere 18 months.
THE KING.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN]
Not in perfunctory, mechanical
Style, as a thousand times you’ve heard
it ring
Across the banquet board or crowded hall,
But heartfelt, fervent, soft, devotional-,
“The King!”
Thrones in themselves were nought and
sceptres dross.
Not earthly pomp and power, but him we
scan
Beneath the crown he wears, above the cross
He bore in war’s black days, through gain
or loss,
The man.
Outside that darkened room we claimed our
place.
With homely, lovingkindness all his own,
With comradeship transcending royal grace,
He brought it nearer to our far-flung race,
The throne.
Back from the shadows deep, from Death’s
dark door!
Hear, while the Christmas bells their mes-
sage fling,
Two words, accentuate as ne’er before,
Two little words from ev’ry sea and shore —
“The King!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


INSURE WITH THE
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
16 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Manager.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
The Patent Indestructible
Garbage Destructor
Is the only Incinerator which is
everlasting and satisfactory,
odorless, smokeless.
OUR NEW CATALOGUE CONTAINS
INCONTESTABLE PROOFS.
GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown.
’Phones: L 2715. L 2716.
df
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates..
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
E., S. and A. Bank.
Net ’
Busi- Profits on
ness Old De- Written Re-
Profits. posits. Dividends. Off. serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1921 262,976 4519 10 p.c.= 128,807 22,500 1,445,541
1922 330,474 7064 10 „ „ 131,989 50,000 1,601,090
Premiums on shares, £18,150 . . 1,619,240
1923 395.348 6004 124 p.c.=178,494 50,000 1,792,098
1924 467,502 8002 124 „ ~ 187,500 67,500 2,012,602
Premiums on shares. £302,331 .. 2,314,933
Transferred to capital, £300,000 . . 2,014,933
1925 505,981 2500 124p.c.=243,750 65,000 2,214,664
1926 522,308 750 124 „ „ 281,250 82,000 2,374,472
Royal Bank absorbed.
Net additions to reserves, £400,000 .. 2,774,472
1927 540,988 1250 12J p.c.=295,313 95,000 2,926,397
Premiums on shares, £379,249 .. 3,305,646
1928 588,769 63 124 p.e.=375,000 98,50-0 3,420,978
The table starts from the time that the man-
agement set vigorously to work to widen the
field of operations, which already included a
fine metal, dairying and agricultural connec-
tion. In 1921 the London Bank of Australia
and the Commercial of Tasmania were
absorbed, and with the aid of a long run
of good seasons some very attractive results
have since been won. The spring in last
year’s figures, however, is mainly the result
of the absorption of the Royal Bank of Aus-
tralia. which was taken over as from March
31, 1927. It had a very solid little Vic-
torian business and growing connections else-
where. One result of the merger has been
that the E., S. and A. advanced from seventh
to third place as a deposit-holder amongst
the associated banks in Australia. Includ-
ing a surplus of £66,578 on the sale of some
of the Royal’s premises, the profit on the
deal was £400,000; but as Royal share-
holders collected 125,000 E., S. and A.
shares at par, they didn’t mind that. The
£400,000 was added to reserves; these also
benefited by £379,249 of share premiums, etc.,
which came in with £375,000 of new capital
shortly after the close of accounts in 1927,
making paid capital £3,000,000 at June 30.
The new money replaced £750,000 cash pay-
ment to Royal shareholders. *
Another result of the absorption was that
gross profits, the growth of which had been
sluggish of late, got a nice lift; the spring
was over three times greater than it was
in the previous year despite a drop of
£1,235,220 in advances and an increase of
£640,931 in interest-bearing deposits :
Gross 1923. 1926. 1927. 1928.
profits £1,251,197 £1,365,860 £1,425,836 £1,627,995
Expenses 557,039 662,163 705,174 808,472
Taxes 223,311 161,389 169,674 220,754
Net Profit £470,848 £542,308 £550,988 £598,769
But a bigger bite for exes, and taxation
reduced the net increase to £47,781. Inci-
dentally, the difference between net profits
shown there and the entries in the introduc-
tory table represent contributions to the
officers’ provident fund. Of course, new capi-
tal can seldom be made to earn at the same
rate as the old, and conditions last year
made profit-earning more difficult than usual,
so the ratio of net profit to average capital
fell to 19.6 p.c. compared with 23.1 p.c. in
the previous year and 23.2, 25.9, 31.1 and
27.7 p.c back to 1923.
What puts the sparkle into those figures
is not only the corpulence of the reserves,
though they were £420,978 in excess of paid
capital at .Tune 30, but £1,932,466 of per-
petual stocks —a reminder of the troubles
of the ’nineties —which is costing the co.
only a whisper over 3| p.c., whereas 7.2
p.c. was netted last year on total average
funds (capital, reserves and perpetual stocks
combined). A fixed percentage of profits has
to be used in buying up the 44 p.c. deferred
stocks (£59,500 at June 30). Last year
£98,437 bought £98,500 face value, and in
that way no less than 458,000 has been
struck off premises, and so passed to inner
reserves during the last half-dozen years.
The profit made on the purchase of these
stocks is shown in the introductory table.
Balance-sheet figures compare as follows:
Liabilities.
1926. 1927. 1928.
Notes .. .. £1,128 £l,llB £1,083
Bills, etc. .. 2,393,680 3,289,955 2,531,983
Deposits at in-
terest .. 15,538,685 19,781,959 20,422,890
Free deposits. . 12,379,946 13,306,550 12,968,377
Total .. £30,313,439 £36,379,582 £35,924,333
Assets.
Liquids .. £14,947,252 £15,774,869 £17,487,243
Advances . . 21,542,691 27,507,326 26,272,106
Premises . . 762,684 872,564 753,429
Total . . £37,252,627 £44,154,759 £44,512,778
The new capital and premium moneys that
came in during the year and more went into
liquids, making them 48.6 p.c. of the liabili-
ties to the public at June 30 as against 43.3
p.c. a year earlier. Depositors and others
c-ould see 27.6 p.c. of their money in cash
and at short call; and that is a very strong
position. When the books were last ruled
off the bank was holding £5 11s. of the pub-
lic’s money, including the perpetual stocks,
for every £1 of its own funds; the figure
was £6 11s. at the previous balance.
Though the outlook in the secondary in-
dustries is not as bright as it might be,
prospects for most of our primary products
are satisfactory, and, for the most part, the
metals market is firmer than it has been.
Also bank advances are on the up grade, so
immediate indications are that better figures
will be written at the next balance, not-
withstanding an inevitable falling off in
imports, and; therefore, in exchange earn-
ings therefrom. The market, impressed by
the bank’s strong position and its prospects,
heavily mortgages the future by paying £8
10s. for the £5 shares paid to £3; the figure
was £7 12s. a year ago. At the current price
the immediate return is .only 4.4 p.c. on a
124 p.c. div. basis. The visible backing is
£6 ss. Bd. per share in net tangibles.
Marcus Clark (Victoria), Ltd.
, Dividends ——^
Pref. To Re-
June, Profits. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
1925. . 5,052 5,000 Nil ‘ 52 10,511
May,
1926.. 3,991 3,667 Nil 324 10,187
Aug Added Preliminary Exes., £9647 . . 19,834
1927* . 41,009 16,852 8 p.c. = 22,704 1453 18,381
1928.. 24,884 13,600 4 „ „ 10,200 1084 17,297
A little over five years ago this co. took
over the Melbourne business—the agency for
Cleveland and Chandler motor-cars—of
Marcus Clark and Co., Sydney. There was
nothing much in it, so the motor agencies
were dropped and the stock of cars sold, leav-
ing only book debts to collect. That was before
the depression in the motor trade reached
its greatest depth. Meantime the energetic
parent had decided to enter the drapery trade
in Victoria. It thus arranged the purchase
of the old Craig Williamson Pty., Mel-
bourne, thereby at once gaining a large
mail-order and general connection. The deal
was made by Marcus Clark (Victoria), Ltd.,
and the price was £400,000, including
£150,000 for goodwill. The figure does not
include the vendor’s freehold and a nine-
storeyed building, which have been bought
on extended terms at a cost* said to approxi-
mate £550,000. A deposit of £19,883 had
been paid on the property at July 31 last.
Early in 1927 the business spread to Adel-
aide, where the whole of the 75,000 £1 ord.
shares in Miller Anderson was bought.
Normally this extension of interests should
help greatly on the buying side and in other
respects, too, but any such benefits were lost
last year as the result of the trade depression
which followed in the wake of the drought,
the moratorium and industrial disturbances
in Victoria. So, despite a vigorous policy
of advertising, stock display and price-cut-
ting, Craig Williamson’s net profit for the
year to July 31 was £30,077 compared with
£60,834, including £8955 from the sale of
property, etc., in the previous term. In its
last year (1925) the old proprietary netted
£68,335. In Adelaide new building opera-
tions interfered with turnover; still results
there were comparatively better, the chair-
man says. For the year to Jan. 31 last
Miller Anderson’s net profit was written at
£11,565. After allowing for the pref. require-
ments the balance was 10 p.c. on that co.’s
ord. capital. For the 12 months to Aug.
31 the holding co. received £42,901 in
interest, dividends and rents. Exes.
(£18,016) were lighter, but on a yearly basis
the net result (£24,884) was £7923 poorer
than its immediate predecessor. So, after
satisfying the prefs., the ord. div. was cut
back to 4 p.c., which was just half the rate
for the previous term. The £lO4B that re-
mained reduced the holding co.’s own intan-
gibles to £17,297.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures disclose it:—
1925. 1926 1927 19^8
Paid capital. . £97,000 £97,000 £428,000 £425,000
Overdraft . . 8,800 20,896 164,885 145,570
Other liabilities 1,492 6,306 10,409 131
Plant, etc. .. 2,958 3,303 1,100 597
Shares .. 1,000 1,000 480,000 480,000
Stocks . . 40,349 39,015
Debtors .. 54,049 73,361 130,301 89,797
Cash, etc. .. 25 25 15 10
Book debts, including advances to sub-
sidiaries, were worked down £40,504 during
the year. On the other hand £19,315 was
snipped off the overdraft and £10,278 off the
amount coming to trade creditors. The re-
mainder was used mostly to pay divs. Thus
the excess of liabilities over liquids
(£55,894) was £10,916 heavier than at the
previous balance. -However, the Melbourne
subsidiary showed a more-or-less liquid sur-
plus of £204,554, including stocks (£256,120),
but in the Adelaide business liabilities (in-
cluding £110,357 on mortgage) exceeded the
more-or-less liquid surplus by £27,938.
The wide and firmly-established connections
of the two subsidiaries and the keenness
of the control ought to ensure a prompt
recovery in profits when trading con-
ditions become normal, and there have been
signs of improvement since the close of
accounts. The holding co.’s prefs. carry a
cumulative 8 p.c., with the right to another
2 p.c. when the ords. have had 10 p.c., and
have priority as to capital. Last year’s
reduced profits were 1.8 times their mini-
mum requirements; and the cover, after
allowing for all intangibles, including those
in the subsidiaries, was approximately
335. 7d. The market pays 225. 6d. for them;
at which figure the return is 7.1 p.c. on an
S p.c. div. basis. For the ords. 18s. 6d. is
paid. Their backing amounts to about 9s. in
net tangibles.
The Kauri Timber Co.
Written
Aug., Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 72,385 7 p.c. = 40.950 209,109
1919.. 71,412 8 „ „ 46,800 11,901 221,820
Capital returned, £135,000. Co. reconstructed.
A'ssets written up, £300,000 of reserves capi-
talised, one fully-paid 255. share issued for
every 15s. paid in old co.
Reserves.
158 883
1921.. 134,001 8 p.c. = 60,000 23,382 209,502
1922.. 87,044 8 „ „ 60,000 19,896 216,650
Contingency fund ( £11,084) taken in 227,734
1923.. 102,858* 8 p.c. = 60,000 14,889 255,703
1924.. 104,569 8 „ „ 60,000 15,822 284,450
1925.. 109,459 8 „ „ 60,000 14,691 319,218
Special depreciation .. 27,861 291,357
1926.. 71,255 8 p.c. = 60,000 13,880 288,732
Special depreciation . . 30,431 258,301
1927.. 45,881 6 p.c. = 45,000 11,560 247,622
Special depreciation .. 10,632 236,990
1928.. 14,669 3 p.c. - 22,500 10,951 218,208
Slackness in the sawmilling industry in Aus-
tralia and Maoriland alike, due mainly to
the continued acute competition of foreign
timbers and price-cutting in the trade, has
again bitten deeply into this co.’s earnings.
Also the subsidiaries, hitherto substantial
contributors to the pool, have felt the pinch
and for the most part paid no divs. last
year. Gross profits have come down by halt-
ing steps from £192,828 in 1922 to £76,613
last year, when the drop was £43,158. The
next comparison makes plain what has hap-
pened :
1922. 1926 1927. 1928.
Gross profits.. £192,828 £152,582 £119,771 £76,613
Management and
office exes... 60,601 51,706 52,754 46,631
Taxes . . 30,147 12,290 1,702
Repairs and
maintenance 16,652 13,385 12,077 10,010
In addition £2944 was written off for bad
debts, £B9O was paid for insurance, fire losses
at one of the mills called for £1768 and
£10,951, shown as written off in the table,
was provided for depreciation of freehold,
plant, etc. After taking into account £2OO
surplus on the sale of assets, the
year’s net trading result thus withered to
£3718, equal to about a-half-of-one per
cent, on the £750,000 of paid capital. Not-
withstanding this a 3 p.c. div. was
paid; it involved an assault upon reserves
for £18,782. It is the third year in
succession that reserves have been dipped
into to provide the div. Nor is that all.
The shrinkage in timber prices made- neces-
sary further cuts in stock values. This and
other adjustments chewed into reserves for
an extra £10,632 last year, making the total
so struck off over the last three years
£68,924. All told, reserves have been drawn
upon for £lOl,OlO since 1925. The next
comparison shows how the various accumu-
lations are apportioned:—
1923. 1927. 1928.
Contingency reserves ..£156,929 £98,638 £88,006
Contingency fund .. 15,471 26,425 26,625
Div. equalisation .. 20,000 50,000 35,000
Fire insurance fund .. 23,134 40,000 38,231
Fire ins. consequential
loss 9,657 24,809 24,809
Log reserve .. .. 911
Marine ins. fund .. 1,832 4,529 4,883
That the co. has been able thus far to pull
through the severe depression in the trade
without shareholders going hungry or its
capital being endangered is largely due to the
board’s sound policy of making liberal pro-
vision for contingencies in more prosperous
years. And since the reconstruction of nine
years ago, when one fully paid 255. share
was handed out for every 15s. paid in the
old co., shareholders have averaged 7.1 p.c.,
equal to 11.5 p.c. on old holdings.
Despite the difficulties the financial posi-
tion remains snug, as this comparison of
balance-sheet figures shows :
1922. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital.. £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities ..£161,178 £80,630 £56,830 £36,743
Freeholds .. 155,646 146,048 138,437 127,920
Leaseholds .. 133,409 88,962 76,681 64,944
Plant, etc. .. 162,605 182,576 181,690 192,426
Stocks, etc. .. 412,997 364,333 329,297 296,127
Book debts .. 116,718 124,178 114,867 107,292
Shares .. 93,166 143,471 144,972 148,471
1 n v e stments,
cash, etc. .. 94,072 99,569 91,001 90,263
The debt, which has been worked down
£43,887 over the last two years, was cov-
ered nearly 2$ times by investments, cash,
etc., alone. The shrinkage of £33,170 in
stocks—they are £116,870 lower than they
were six years ago—is partly due to the
writing down referred to above. Whether
the cut has been sufficient only the future
can decide. Trade lias brightened little
since the close of accounts, but condition’
are still far from normal. Results win
largely depend upon the value that lias been
placed on the standing timber m the
co.’s big freehold and leasehold forests, ine
combined holdings are in the books at
£192,864, down £42,146 in the last two years
The board is confident of the future, but
in the light of recent history and the pre-
sent state of the trade, the market. looks with
a cautious eye at the co.’s earning power,
arid prices the fully-paid 255. shares at 2Us.
The net tangible backing figures out at
3d. per share —14s. 6d. of it is more-or-less
liquid.
Hume Steel, Ltd. (Melbourne).
Net Towards
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 35 Nil 35 251.,700
Added to intangibles, £2OBO . .
1925.. 795 Nil 795 252,98 a
Added to intangibles, £1139 .. 254,124
Pref.
10 p.c. Ord.
1920.. 8,870 5201 Nil 3,609 250,455
Added to intangibles, £791 • • 251,246
1927.. 19,183 5567 Nil 13,616 237,630
Part foreign rights sold, patents
reduced, £152,824 .. •• 84,806
1928.. 21,348 5567 Nil 15,781 69,025
This one of the Ilume group set up in
October, 1923, and gave £250,000 in fully
paid ords. for patent rights, etc., which are
not treated as an asset in the table 1 . Paid
capital at Sept. 30 was £305,670 in 50,000
A profs., 5670 B profs, and 250,000 ords.
Thus far progress lias been slow, due largely
to lack of working capital. Most of the
available cash was locked up for the first
three years in a contract with the Melbourne
Water Board ; small orders turned in nothing
worth speaking about, and shareholders were
timid about putting more money into the
business. A couple of years ago £30,000
was raised on debentures to finance con-
tracts with the S. Aus. Government. The
work was profitable, the debentures were
repaid, and last year definite progress
appears to have been made with the develop-
ment of the business. About the middle of
the term the second Thevenard (S.A.) con-
tract was completed l . The factory there was
dismantled and the plant transferred to new
works at Adelaide, Perth and Singapore.
The new factories are all now busy, and
orders are expected to come along in better
volume during the current year. At Sept.
30 uncompleted contracts figured at £26,397
and deposits on new contracts at £2BBB as
against £39,909 and £11,228 respectively a
year earlier. After charging the cost of
establishing the new factories against earn-
ings, writing off something for depreciation
and setting aside £B5OO for taxation the
year’s net profit was put at £21,348, or
£2165 better than the 1927 figure. The prefs.
called for £5567, the balance (£15,781),
equal to 6.3 p.c. on the ord. capital, remained
in the business to finance expansion.
A further development was the sale of the
co.’s foreign rights, except in the Dutch East
Indies, Straits Settlements and F.M.S., to
a subsidiary, Steel Pipe and Lining Co.
(Hume’s), Ltd., for £500,000 in fully paid
ords. These shares the parent has taken into
its books at £154,584, having reduced the
book value of its patents (now £100,900) by
that amount. So the amount of its capital
unrepresented by tangible assets at Sept.
30 was approximately £221,849 (the £69,025
shown in the table + this £154,584 less a
few pounds of solid assets taken over).
The other half of the pup’s round mil-
lion of nominal capital is in 8 p.c.
prefs., of which 100,000 are non-cumu-
lative. The idea is that the pup will
float subsidiaries of its own to work
the patents. Hume Steel is to put up £lO,OOO
in cum. prefs. in order to provide working
capital. Nothing is said as to what further
capital, if any, is to be raised. Of course
the multiplication of the book value of the
patents will not make it any easier for the
new co. to win good returns thereon.
The year’s activities are reflected in this
comparison of balance-sheet figures:—
1925. 1927. 1928.
Other liabilities .. £17,343 £44,170 £44,250
Freehold and leasehold 3,975 2,175 9,792
Plant 17,680 45,224 59,375
Stocks 7,758 14,214 25,069
Contracts . . . . 23,960 39,909 26,397
Book debts . . . . 5,433 26,967 15,704
Cash and deposits . . 7,563 11,679 24,339
Shares in other cos. .. 154,584
Surplus earnings enabled the board to add
£7617 to the book value of freeholds, etc., and
to spend £14,151 more than was written off on
plant. Stocks were £10,855 heavier and book
debts £11,263 lighter. Including stocks the
more-or-less liquids were £47,259 in excess
of the debt. Since the books were last
ruled off steps have been taken to open a
factory in Sydney; another is to be erected
in Brisbane at an early date, and extension
to Maoriland will follow when opportunity
offers. Profit making largely depends upon
loan expenditure, and apart from a visible
slackening in that respect there is a steadily
growing competition in pipe-making.
Hume Steel’s prefs. carry a non-cumulative
10 p.c., and advance with the ords. in any
div. the latter may receive. The usual pref.


d
.
v '• ■'
M
11P11 -
Hm
mmmmm
m
MHI
m
■
—■phm—l_
’ ' ; ' V *;:aA
■ ■.■■■■ :
:
Ifigjl|:.:i:; ; ; i |iigliii| g|||i|«ii#i
■Bji
• V'A
■ r Sy s 2 ■■ " A.V.,;..
md
** jm -
State ■
Mfek l *> Vi-’w ‘ ' i
m
r s
■
:
■ H
i
H
i HIBi
Hfeb
im
HW.. *1
a f
i F
Si*,* " i
*
Kiss
■
m
m ebbs i a
v*:;:,*’
J
A A.l
in
A ? *:
1 H
HI
m ■
i 1
Wm
■
ii
I
■
Hi
i n
j ; ■ft I
hhH
»• v
■\ j ■ ■
4- "" ,/ '-i | ■ ,
felt
Biiiiig
i >
MBMI
,: • >:
mm
mm
HI
aHM
ispilip
f:
■
.
wm
Hi
HHHnH
**;*■•**
A**
H
HH
*|*% : m 1
HH
H
MB
p H| ilp "s****
S ;; v;7'V; i v':;r-V7V-^'-::7-:vA
V* 7 * 'i ■ *s**i
all
iMttggEHlßip»iW«gjMßfM
H|
MW
*P**iv** WsPfcfjJjfMT |
■ ’■ : • ■'• ■■ ■ i
mMMM
■ mm wmw -m
ill
'J,!'’*" '
Hf§P§
llillSttttii
fife,, : .IH
ißnk. i*
Hi*'
Si
mh
".: ;;
msn
BBS BBS Skßh ■• 5 ■■;■■■;• :: BS9 B S
.; , ■ si*
* . J
.
MHBP^
■ *|* ka
mil
yAfS
H
m
Stacks of Pigeon-holes and Ladders
in the Records Department.
Steel Cabinets with Roller
Shutters.
Steel Pigeon-holes fitted with Sliding
Doors in the Chief Accounts
Branch.
Ledger Trucks Fitted with Roller Shelves for
Conveyance of Ledgers to and from Strong Room.
All designed and erected by us for the Head Office of the new Government Savings Bank, Martin Place,
opened for business on Monday, 17th December.
wm
n
ON
MARY ANN STREET, ULTIMO, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 4247 (3 lines).


“THE WILD ‘CAT’
MONTHLY”
The Great Australian
Guide to Money-making
In this period of Financial uncertainty
no Investor, Trustee or Business man can
afford to be without it.
DECEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock + GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Municipal Loans Negotiated. Geo. E. Dicken-
son, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant, Victoria Buildings,
Swanston Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe has a record of service in
every phase of liquid-conveying work which compels
your attention when considering piping installations.
It is the logical choice for every purpose. Let us
send you our booklet giving full information and
detailed particulars, of a variety of works being
efficiently operated with Pioneer Wood Pipe. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
(near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at
Footscrav, Victoria. — Advt.
$ # * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.lisoN & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * $
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Risk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
.Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridsres
Hadfields
AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadlields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and 1 Alexandria, Svdney, N.S.W.
Foundries J Bassendean, Berth, W.A.
Branch ( 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office J T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
O
1
m
j
:
Grosvenor’s unex-
celled service,
modern equipment,
and delightful
cuisine cost you
less—and contri-
bute to a perfect
holiday. T a r i ff
from £3/10/-
>GROSVENOR
Finest Unlicensed [Hotel
Opp. Railway Sfn. Norrh Terrace.
requirements were covered nearly four times
by last year’s net profit. All shares, how-
ever, rank equally as to capital, and the net
tangible backing amounts to but ss. 6d. each.
Still, impressed by the co.’s recent progress
and its prospects, buyers offer 275. each
for the A and B shares; a year ago they
were priced at 225. The return at the cur-
rent figure is 7.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
R. Fowler, Ltd., (Sydney).
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. 10 p.e. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 18,437 4000 8 p.c. = 16,631 16,136
Establishment exes, new factory, £1793.. 14,343
1928.. 3,258 4000 Nil 13,601
This co., which is in the pottery, pipe and
brick and tile trade, took over the old-
established business of R. Fowler in 1919.
For a while there was trouble with a Dressier
kiln, and that affected profits, but the busi-
ness continued to grow. Profits reached their
peak in 1924, when £23,296, equal to 11.7
p.c. on average capital, was netted, and a
10 p.c. div. was paid. But since then condi-
tions have changed completely, particularly
in the pottery section ; acute competition from
cheap-labor overseas countries, which pay
only a small duty of 25 p.c., has cut into
prices, while costs remain on the up grade.
Profits, of course, felt the effects, and the
board dipped into the attenuated reserves
to pay the ords. 8 p.c. for the 12 months
to Sept. 30, 1927. Meanwhile £65,000 of
ord. capital had been issued in order to
provide for additions to tile works, Sydney,
and for the extension of the co.'s business
to Melbourne. To see the Melbourne factory
to completion it was decided early last year
to issue £40,000 8 p.c. second prefs., but
half-way through the term the idea was aban-
doned, and the board went to its bankers for
the money required and got it at a lower rate
of interest. This arrangement is distinctly
more satisfactory to ord. shareholders.
Last year turnover was well maintained,
but gross profits (amount not stated) fell
away £5005, due for the most part to price-
cutting. The shrinkage in the net result
was £15,179, so exes, were evidently £10,174
heavier than in the previous term. But that
was mainly because of a louder call for
•depreciation; £11,941 was so set aside as
against £6025 in the preceding 12 months.
In other words, some of what had been
hitherto claimed as profit was not really
earned, and it yet remains to be seen whether
last year’s £3258 was all profit either. For
one thing, it does not take into account
£1793 of exes, capitalised in connection with
the Melbourne factory. The cancellation of
the pref. share underwriting contract must
have cost something, too.
For the six years to Sept. 30, 1927, the
ords. have had an average of 8.3 p.c., and
as the result of nine years of trading the
co. js now able to claim only £13,601 of
nominal reserves to support £290,000 of paid
capital. In the circumstances, the dividend
policy was more liberal than it should have
been. However, during the latter half of
the last term the organisation was over-
hauled, and sales, overhead and prime costs
are expected to benefit.
Here is the co.’s position as balance-sheet
figures disclose it: —
1927. 1928.
Paid capital £265,622 £290,000
Liabilities . . . . . . 52,263 79,817
Freehold and plant . . . . 223,743 260,287
stocks ■ . . 52,787 52,535
Sundry debtors . . . . 39,405 39,910
Shares in other cos. . . . . 33,252 35,486
Cash, etc 61 201
During the year £27,554 was tacked on to
the debt, including the overdraft. That and
£24,378 of new capital got in went mostly
into the Melbourne factory, which is lumped
with all other fixed assets at £260,287, up
£36,544 during the year. Nothing is said
as to the condition of the plant, nor as
to the basis upon which stocks have been
taken into the sheet, and a lot depends upon
that. The more-or-less liquid surplus
(£12,829) was £27,161 lighter than at the
close of accounts in 1927.
Most of the £35,486 at which shares in
ither cos. figure in the accounts represents
the holding in R. Fowler, Yianini, Ltd., the
tipe-making subsidiary which set up in 1924.
Thus far it has paid no divs. At Sept. 30
t had a paid capital of £42,507, and owed
£18,261. On the other side was a p. and 1.
iebit of £1510; license and rights, £25,000;
all but £8785 of the balance was in buildings
and plant.
Satisfactory progress is reported at the
Melbourne end, and altogether the co.’s out-
look is more promising than it was 12
months ago. But the market takes a cautious
view of the future, and pays 13s. for the
pound ords., which were valued at par a
year ago. The backing amounts to 21s. Id.
in net assets, including shares in other cos.
The 10 p.c. cum. prefs.—there are 40,000 of
them, and they have priority as to capital—
are priced at 245. The return at that figure
is 8.3 p.c.; the cover £7 11s. lOd. in net
assets.
Hoffman Brick and Potteries, Ltd., (Mel-
bourne) .
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividend. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 16,061 7 A p.c. = 12,033 4028 33,315
1919.. 7,513 6J „ „ 10,027 30,801
1920.. 21,621 7i ~ „ 12,033 9588 40,389
1921.. 16,565 74 „ „ 12,033 4532 44,921
1922.. 19,917 Hi „ „ 18,049 1868 46,789
Added to reserves .. £15,699 62,488
1923.. 31,156. lOip.c. = 26,071 5085 67,573
Reserves capitalised .. £32,088 35,485
1924.. 29,686 121 p.c. = 24,066 5620 41,105
Added to reserves .. £9646 50,751
1925.. 21,447 10 p.c. = 19,253 2194 52,945
Profit on sale of land, £17,038 . . 69,983
1926.. 24,130 124 p.c. = 24,066 64 70,047
1927.. 25,303 12* „ 24,066 1237 71,284
Profit on sale of land, £4016 .. 75,300
Bonus shares received, £5460 .. 80,760
1928.. 17,974 10 p.c. = 19,253 79,481
This co.’s profits are affected by con-
ditions in the building trade. Last year
conditions were dull. The brick section was
the one most affected. Over the greater part
of the term only two of the five kilns were
at work; in the previous year four
were in commission. Turnover in the
pottery section also fell off. Because
of this, gross trading profits, dividends,
interest earnings, etc. (£25,406), fell
away £15,952. Exes, (£7522) were
down £8671, but that was mainly because
no provision was visibly made for deprecia-
tion. The amount set aside for that purpose
in the previous year was £7768. This raises
the question whether the £17,974 of trading
profits claimed by the accounts has been
really earned. The board, no doubt, took the
opportunity of making bigger allowances
under that head than it considered strictly
necessary during more prosperous years.
Over the four years to Sept. 30, 1927,
£29,722 was visibly struck off out of earn-
ings for depreciation, and plant, etc., in at
valuation, was fairly steady around £62,000
during that time. However, not only has
wastage through wear and tear to be con-
sidered, but obsolescence is a factor that
cannot be overlooked, as illustrated by the
fact that the co. has had to spend a lot of
money of recent years on labor-saving mach-
inery in order to meet foreign competition
in the pottery section. The year’s trading
result was only 8.3 p.c. on capital compared
with 13.1, 12.5, 11.1 and 15.4 p.c. back to
1924, the year following that in which a 10
p.c. gift-scrip issue was made. Nevertheless
the board knocked only 2 $ points off last
year’s div. rate, reducing it to 10 p.c. That
the cut was not deeper is probably due to
the fact that £5460 of bonus scrip was re-
ceived from one of the subsidiaries, and a
profit of £4016 was made on the sale of some
of the co.’s freehold. Thus when the books
were ruled off reserves were £8197 stronger
than at the previous balance. Over the past
four years shareholders have had an average
of Hi p.c. p.a., but it took all but £2216 of
the declared trading profits to do it. With
distributions so close up to trading results
a steady div. rate need not be looked for.
There is nothing uneasy in the financial
position, as this comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows: —
1923. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. .. £160,440 £192,528 £192,528
Liabilities .. .. 9,136 9,364 10,922
Freeholds .. .. 75,853 77,198 79,287
Plant, stores, etc, .. 79,813 84,815 88.554
Stock 18,790 20,439 24.387
Shares in other cos... 26,715 36,361 41,821
Book debts .. .. 17,635 34,462 32,082
Cash, etc 32,382 34,340 28,833
Apart from shares in other cos., but
including stocks, the more-or-less liquid
surplus was £74,380, or £5497 lighter than
at the close of accounts in 1927. That was
partly because cash was drawn upon for
£5507. Most of the money went into plant,
etc., up £3739. Despite the sale of portion
of the co.’s Tramway estate during the year,
freeholds (£79,287) were up £2089.
The market sizes up the position by pay-
ing 28s. for the scrip. At that figure the
return is a shade over 7 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The net tangible backing amounts
to 28s. 3d., subject to any intangibles there
may be in the subsidiaries. Of that amount
Bs. 3d. is represented by freeholds; 9s. 2d.,
plant, etc.; 4s. 4d.., shares; 6s. 6d., more-or-
less liquid surplus.
Re Roma Orallo Oil (B. 5/12/’2B), Dr.
Jensen writes that he has never reported
favorably on this co.’s permits, nor reported
upon them at all for the present owners.
* * * *
Mt. Isa is about to take another big step
along the road to production and marketing.
It has increased its nominal capital to
£2,000,000 by the creation of 500.000 new
£1 shares. This is in order to cover
a conversion option in respect of a
pending issue of £1,000,000 7 p.c. deben-
tures. The new money is wanted for the
erection of the specially-designed treatment
plant, estimated to cost £1,300,000, the first
unit of which will have a capacity of from
1500 to 2000 tons per day. Isa’s issued
capital is now £1.240,180, including £550.000
held by Russo-Asiatic, and it has £450.000
cash in hand. Russo-Asiatic, which has
guaranteed to put up the money required for
the building programme, has the right to sub-
scribe for the whole of the debenture issue;
also its option over 200,000 shares at 40s.
each has been extended till June, 1931. Until
then debentures may be converted into shares
on the basis of 50s. per share, or 40 shares
for each £lOO debenture. Any debentures re-
maining after that will be redeemed by
annual drawings over the next 15 years.
The charge over the co.’s assets created by
the Mt. Isa Railway Act is to be removed
by amending legislation, thus enabling the
co. to give the debenture-holders a first
charge. It is not stated when the new plant
is expected to be ready.
* * * *
After the stoppage during the installation
of the new plant, boring at R.0.0.’s No. 2
well has been resumed and an oil geologist
has gone to the field. Only a short spell will
be taken over Christmas, and, as another
few days’ work should carry No. 1 well
through the gas and oil sands, the festive
season is full of hope and anxiety for holders
of scrip and well-wishers of the State who
are hoping to see a gusher struck.
❖ * ❖ *
Outside of Roma, to the north-east and
north of the town, a veritable motor-lorry
concourse leads to sites of drilling activity
where a year ago existed one of the quietest
pastoral spots in the State. Over 300 per-
mits for oil search have been issued, and
oil folk are now astride of the Great Divid-
ing Range. Four hefty strangers who speak
very broken English are in the search as
members of the Queensland Elbof Group.
They are German geologists from Charlot-
tenburg University, trained by Elbof at Cas-
sel, and they have enough contracts on hand
to keep them around Roma Domes for two
years.
* * *
Taranaki Oil Fields, Ltd., is transforming
itself into a no liability concern. The present
fully paid 20s. shares —-there are 470,561 of
them—are to be exchanged for new , shares
of 30s. each paid to 20s. Further capital is
required to test the two Gisborne structures.
General-manager Moline is on his way to the
U.S.A. to make inquiries about the best
method of drilling various structures on
areas held by the company.
* * * *
“Let Go” : London tin magnates are evi-
dently satisfied with the future prospects of
Koorboora, Gurrumbah and Irvinebank tin
fields (N.Q.). The Wentworth Finance and
Mining Corporation recently purchased a
group of mines in the above districts at a
cost of £25,000, plus a royalty of Is. a ton
on all ore treated. The co., with additional
equipment and further development, hopes
to clear an annual profit approximating
£800,000; that is provided the London price
of tin keeps above £2OO per ton.
* # * *
The Duke mine at Ravenswood (N.Q.) has
closed down ; it was one of the old mining
town’s last hopes. The Duke vein was one
of the richest crushers on the field; stone
under 4oz. use to be looked on as rather
poor. The Duke co. ceased work about two
years ago on a much-faulted and diminished
reef, but tributors carried on, and yarns of
hidden shoots carefully covered oyer in the
halcyon days of Laurence Wilson were whis-
pered about the town. Nothing apparently
ever came of them, and the tributors have
now thrown in the towel.
* *. s|:
An interesting survey has been com-
pleted by geologists connected with the Ben-
digo School of Mines and the Mines Depart-
ment in the valley of the Cam paspe River.
Bores were put down through the basalt near
the Eppalock weir, but not one disclosed a
trace of gold. Half a mile further north a
small sample of alluvial gold was found,
but it was reckoned this had been brought
down by the Mclvor Creek from the Heath-
cote district. The survey party reported
that it was reasonably certain that any deep-
lead gravels beneath the basalt in this area
would not contain gold-bearing wash rich
enough to merit further investigation.
* * * *
Austral Malay Tin’s general manager, C.
C. Nardin, recently, returned from an inspec-
tion of the co.’s various Malayan properties,
including those of its offspring, which now
number half a dozen. lie says the parent
is keeping a sharp eye open for new areas,
and is waiting for the end of the monsoon
to commence boring in the Trenganu dis-
trict on the east coast of the F.M.S.
Ivampong Kamunting’s No. 1 dredge, which
has cleaned out its area at Kamunting, is
to be shifted to new ground at Karangan,
where it is expected to commence digging in
June next. No. 2 is in rich ground at the
bead of the Kamunting Valley—last month’s
average was over a pound a yard—-and has
several years to go before cutting out.
Asam has had trouble since last July with
difficult and low-grade ground, but is expected
to get into better values shortly.
Ulu Yam has also been getting poor recov-
eries, but richer ground will be reached in
the coming year. This is expected to result
in regular dividends. The boiler is to close
clown for a fortnight in January for recon-
ditioning.
Thabawleik’s output is described as dis-
appointing, but, while yardages have dropped
in the last two or three months, values are
slightly higher. The dredge has never been
able to work to capacity, this being attri-
buted to defects in the machine and unex-
pected ground difficulties. A new band of
larger buckets may have to be fitted. It is
stated that the fall in the price of tin pre-
vented the distribution of more than 15 p.c.
in dividends for 1928.
* * ajs *
Puchong Tin, the fifth in seniority of Aus-
tral Malay’s subsidiaries, has been placed on
the official list. The co. was formed in 1925.
The dredge, a large and modern plant,
is now being erected. Paid capital is
£150,000 in £1 shares, of which 42,000 paids
went to Austral Malay as vendors and
108,000 were taken up by the public.
:[: * * *
Burma Malay has increased its paid
capital to £lOO,OOO by the issue of
20,000 £1 shares to Malayan interests
at a premium of 10s. The board says
it was reluctant to ask those on the register
for more so soon after the last issue, but
shareholders desiring to do so may take up
their proportion of one for four. The money
is wanted for prospecting new areas. The
scrip is around 88s. on the market, equal
to 345. sd. after exercising the option.


THE INDUSTRIAL PEACE TEST.
AUSTRALIA: “D—n cricket! To see those two going arm-in-arm—that’s the victory I want.’
Ppverty
point
“C. 8.”: The news that the Soviet is com-
pelling its ■ slaves to drink vodka to provide
the sinews of war recalls the occasion Avhen
Frank Talbot, of Melbourne Athenaeum, ran-
sacked the city for a bottle of the national
Russian tipple in order to give two visiting
Slav virtuosi a pleasant surprise and a
special treat. Having run a couple of mea-
sures to earth, he produced them with great
eclat, only to learn that his action was tan-
tamount to offering a governor’s aide-de-
camp a glass of ’arf-and-’arf.
“Cauboy” : For persistence in the produc-
tion of the intellectual drama, the bun should
go to Beresford Fowler, of Melbourne’s
Little Art Theatre. No amateur producer
has introduced so many “first productions”
to Melbourne. His next will be “The Vor-
tex” and “The Rat Trap,” for the rights of
which acid blobs from the pen of Noel
Coward lie went direct to the author.
“C.R.”: It is hard to be optimistic about
the future of the new legitimate theatre
Ernest Rolls and George Marlow propose to
huild in Melbourne. After a 20-year spell a
new playhouse was opened a year ago, but,
judging by the intervals of complete empti-
ness between its periods of partial emptiness,
the need for it was never crying. The
Palace is hard pu't to it to find plays all the
year round, and both it and the Princess are
periodically out of commission, and the Play-
house is seldom in demand. The general
impression is that existing facilities are
more than adequate. What is needed is
better plays and actors.
“Flaming Youth”: The latest million-
pound or so film-producing organisation
formed in Australia is to get its experts
from Germany, while one Helmt, a Russian,
will be the star. The pictures, however, will
have Australian settings. The German part
of the organisation guarantees a European
distribution, which, if the guarantee lives up
to itself, will be an advantage; and as, out-
side the principals, Australian mummers will
be employed, the concern deserves a blessing.
Among the business directors is L. L. lolit-
zer, long associated with Melbourne s
Bohemia. One of the businesses with which
he was connected was a cafe, and he was
always prepared to take the pictures of impe-
cunious artists (in days when all artists
were impecunious) as payment for meals.
When the artists accumulated fame Politzer
reaped a handsome profit on his investments
.—but no one grudged that to the man whose
feeds had been a godsend in days of famine.
“Cine Ma”: The decision to release the
“Dawn” film in the Commonwealth is based
on the alleged fact that Germany now views
the picture with equanimity. Current ex-
prcssions of Teuton opinion don t bear out
the assertion. They still resolutely adhere
to the belief that Matron Cavell was a spy,
and therefore deserved her fate no more and
no less than did the six women shot by the
French and the two executed by the Bel-
gians Among statements quoted are those
of M. Gille, head of Belgian espionage, who
said that “among the prisoners sent to me
by Miss Cavell were many spies,” and that
of Captain Bennett, who wrote to the Even-
ing Standard (24/2./’2B) “in spite of two
definite warnings by the German authorities.
Miss Cavell continued in her organisation of
a most effective system of espionage.”
“L.11.P.”: “Repat” (B. 19/12/’2S) is a
long wav off facts when he talks about F'ranit
Thornton opening his “second Australian
tour at Melbourne Princess in 1907.’' That
was his sixth and last. The Firm brought
him here first in 1885, and Brough-Bouci-
cault ran him as a star in “Sweet Lavender
in 1889, his second visit. On his third trip,
in 1893, he came with “Charley’s Aunt.” In
1897 he introduced “The Strange Adventures
of Miss Brown.” “Facing the Music” was
the novelty of his fifth tour. 1902-03. In his
final tour‘l9o7-08 he played “When Knights
Were Bold” and farewelled Australia at
Sydney Palace on Oct. 9, 1908. He died in
London in 1918. Through all his tours “The
Private Secretary,” his first piece, was as
sure a draw as “East Lynne.”
“Ciesar’s Ghost”: In a discussion in
England the invention of the “sisters” turn
in vaudeville (it is having a revival) has
been imputed to the three Levey sisters and
the two sisters of Ada Reeve, Jewesses in
both cases —the Reeve girls’ real name was
Isaacs. Actually, the “sisters” are ancients
in vaudeville, in which crazes last until the
meaningless imitation of successful turns
sickens the public. After the success of the
Reeve girls there were at least half a dozen
pairs of feminines, alleged to be sisters,
appearing in Australian vaudeville alone,
and giving turns that became horribly weari-
some. A similar tide of dreariness must have
been running in, England in the days of
Leigh Hunt, who;referred to the dulness of
“supposed sisters who do nothing but imi-
tate each other in deeds absolutely unworthy
of imitation.” The Reeves’ turn was some-
thing exceptional, however; they made a hit
almost as great as that made by sister Ada
when she took London by storm in “Floro-
dora.”
“L.H.P.”: I don’t agree with “Cauboy”
(B. 12/12/’2S) that “the old-time circus is
passing—another victim of the movies.” The
trouble is simply that the circus in Aus-
tralia is not up to date. We get no fine
riding such as we used to get in the best
days of the Fitzgeralds, Harmston, Fillis,
Sells and other shows that were genuine cir-
cuses. not glorified vaudeville shows. Even
Wirths’ in the ’eighties, with Marizles Wirth
and Madeline Wirth as equestriennes, was
altogether better than it is now. There are
still real trick horses and ponies, and daring
lady and gent, riders in the East, South
Africa, U.S.A., the Continent and England,
but we don’t get them in Aussie.
“Spare Einstein”: The Talkie films lack
relativity. The illusion of the living figure
on the screen is destroyed often by the fact
that, whether the actor is facing the audience,
standing sideways, or with his back to it,
“the voice” comes right across in the same
irresponsible way. Hitherto the. world has
been the market of the silent film.
Literally from China to Peru everyone has
laughed or wept or cursed over Charles
Chaplin, Mary Pickford or a hundred others.
Now, when the custard-pie hurled by
Charlie is accompanied by a strange gibberish
which will be double Dutch to all those
picture addicts not certificated as masters
of the Anglo-Saxon tongue, there are going
to be a lot of poor bookings in the wiae
world’s moving shows. Even among the nardy
descendants of ILereward the Wake, that
same old voice delivered from all positions is
going to be a hurdle the Talkie Kings will
find hard to hop.
“Spokeshave”: The public trust . in the
impartiality of newspaper criticism is path-
etic. Aside from the fact that the policy
of most of the dailies is swa.yed by a dual
desire to please both advertisers and readers,
there is the personal equation. The critic is
a sentimental bloke, as much . a prey to
loves, hates and subconscious impulses . as
commoil men. The notices of two leading
musical critics in Melbourne. actually form
a sort of bitter fugue, in which A uses the
performance on the platform as the text for
an attack on B. B is a. more serene, cold
and dignified individual than A, and this so
goads A that he can scarcely pen a para-
graph without some oblique reference to his
pet obsession, couched in tones of shrill
abuse. In theatrical criticism it is much
the same. A daily, hitherto distinguished by
the innocuousness of its lately
printed a ferocious attack on a certain actor-
manager. The motive behind the offensive
would probably be a subject for a psycho-
analytical inquiry into the repressions of the
man who made it. The amusing feature
of the bludgeoning was that it was hailed
with delight by the actor-manager's employ-
ers, who were prepared to sacrifice a little
at the box-office for the pleasure of seeing
their employee—a Tartar they would be very
chary of tackling themselves —publicly humil-
iated.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Sam Babicci, who is the
Tom Katz of the saxophone combination
which, after it has finished a Melbourne sea-
son, goes to South Africa and on to England
to show that Australia can send out a better
vaudeville band organisation than any it lias
received, learnt his saxophoning from his
father, Frank Babicci, who teaches in Syd-
ney (he used to be an instructor at the Con-
servatorium). Frank is having his little
joke with the name of a nine-year-old pupil,
who has been appearing at the Regent and,
as a vaudeville trimming, will be in panto,
this Christmas. The youngster uses the
stage name of Tom Kitten.
“Dum Spiro”: Recently-mentioned old
Poverty-Pointers who never get that good-
part-in-a-new-show' would hail in Australia
such a man as “Broadway’s craziest angel.”
Edgar B. Davis, a multi-millionaire, has
earned the title with a show he owns called
“The Ladder.” It is, without doubt, the
world’s greatest flop, since it has cost the
“Angel” 1,150,000 dollars. It has been on
the boards for two years, and for the last nine
months all seats have been free. Once admis-
sion was charged, and the show roped in less
than 100 payers. The same set of actors
who were with it for the first night are still
playing to the same empty seats.
“A.G.M.”: For the opening night of
“Funny Face” at London Princes stalls and
dress-circle seats cost 245. The exorbitant
charge furnished the critics with a new
explanation for the generally poor condition
of English drama. The masses are finding
theatre-going too expensive. Several of the
theatres, notably the newest, are without
pit or gallery, some without both; so the
playgoer of small means is effectively shut
out. Artists complain that they miss the
stimulus of applause. Managers and pro-
ducers —among them William Mollison—-
say that the extravagant salaries demanded
by artists are doing as much to kill the
theatre as the enormous rents.
“Ctesar’s Ghost”: Only a few of those who
assembled in the old room at the back of Syd-
ney Cambridge Club Hotel (Reuben Brasch’s
shop now stands on the spot) to form the
Professional Musicians’ Union are stilt on
deck. Len Morris, who was the first secre-
tary, now makes his crust as a wharf clerk;
Lewis Henderson, who succeeded him in the
secretarial job, is one of the J.C.W. orches-
tral conductors; and Bobbie Kohlblanck, also
secretary for a time, is in Sydney Prince
Edward"orchestra. Frank Babicci. who taught
the young idea how to play wind instru-
ments, and Bobbie Iveers, senior, are two
others; but most of the rest are missing.
Some of them formed a band and got De
Groen to act as conductor; he afterwards
took complete charge, and, as De Groen’s
Band, the combination became the most popu-
lar musical assembly in Sydney.
THE CHUCKER-OUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
lie’s the man who “looks after the front ;
“ Jnst an usher,” he often declares;
With the public, more forthright and blunt,
“Chucker-out” is the title he bears.
'Way up in a gallery seat
You hear him in megaphone tones;
lie squirms at the stamping of feet,
And is frequently greeted with groans.
He can wrestle and scuffle with vim,
But his methods are ready and. rough;
No Queensberry nonsense for him
When he’s wiping the floor with a tough.
“Hard as nails,” they pronounce who’re
acquaint
With the strength of his merciless grip.
But once he fell down in a faint- —
A patron had slipped him a tip!
N.S.W.
SMADA.


Chains-Chains - Chains -Chains
df
Australian-made —better than Imported
Support Your Secondary Industries
Non-skid, hand-forged chains for a Ford to a
7-ton truck.
Chains for Collieries.
Chains for Brickyards.
Pit-cage chains.
Lashing chains.
Messenger and Steering-wheel chains.
Sling, Snigging, Plough and leading chains.
Roller and Conveyor chains of all descriptions.
Mooring and Ships’ Cable chains.
Made from best Staffordshire iron.
The only complete chain works in the Common-
wealth.
All chains tested to Lloyd’s standard and
certificates issued,
BLOOMERS CHAINS, LTD.,
BRISBANE.
d
LEFEVER NITRO-SPECIAL HAMMERLESS
L.EFEVER NITBO SPECIAL
PRICE
£7/15/-
WONDERFUL VALUE IN DOUBLE-BARREL GUNS.
O.K.’D AND PURCHASED IN QUANTITIES BY U.S. NAVY.
A Lefever Gun is made to shoot right, and throws a pattern superior to many guns much
higher in price. , .. ,
The lock was designed by the best gunmakers in America, and gunsmiths the country over
sav it is the best designed lock ever put in a gun. The first lock "’^ s i . snappi ''L ov f v l'’ 0 ? 0
times, and the first Lefever Nitro Special Gun was fired about 10,000 times without a break.
A Lefever Gun won the World’s Championship at the Olympic Games in London.
The name Lefever on a gun has stood for service and durability for 50 years.
The best gun ever offered for anything near the price. Made in 12, 16, 20 and 410 gauge.
WHOEVER SAW A BROKEN LEFEVER?”
C7Z>.
Va
pty. ltd
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Vagabond King’’
Royal (com. Saturday) .... “Mr. Pym Passes By”
Criterion “The Patsy”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Desert Song”
Royal “Other Men’s Wives”
New Comedy “Scandal”
Kino’s Nicola
Athenaeum “The Wrecker”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
One of the quaintest shows ever performed
in Melbourne was the Nativity Play, put
on by the Repertory Society twice last week
in the Botanic Gardens, under the direction
of Frank ,Clewlow. To get the picture in the
right perspective one has to imagine a queer
blending of the Middle Ages and a.d. 1928.
An evening-dressed throng, arriving in limou-
sines and seating themselves on director
Rae’s front lawn, some smoking, some chas-
ing mosquitoes. Moon shining fitfully
through clouds and the S.E.C. providing a
monstrous star of Bethlehem in the crown
of a majestic tree. Sudden laugh of a kooka-
burra, overture of crickets, obligingly stilled
exactly at 8.15. Running accompaniment
by the trams in St. Kilda-road. A Japanese
plum throws an arm laden with glowing
fruit over the manger where the Son of Man
is to be re-born. The hidden choir chants
from behind a gigantic cassia-tree a thrilling
chorus that seems to come sometimes from
infinite distance owing to the fluctuations of
the wind. Mary appears. Mary Bourke
makes the perfect Madonna, a fiesli-and-blood
replica of a Raphael. The Angel of the Lord
(Eric Donald), distinguished by a pasteboard
halo, walks out from behind a convenient
shrub. He tells Mary of her glorious des-
tiny, and return,* to Heaven via one of the
aisles. She stands transfigured until St.
Joseph (Keith Roberts) appears. He is an
old man, vain of his beautiful wife, and nor-
mally suspicious. He does not believe her
tale. A Virgin Birth? Preposterous! He
rages, and heavy-hearted—for she loves her
husband —she flees. The angel Gabriel re-
appears and gives the distracted Joseph con-
vincing proof. All depart. A shepherd
(Robert Guthrie) stumbles into view. A
rough, rustic clown, obviously English. He
has seen a star and holloas to his mates.
* :|! * *
The three discuss the portent, stamping
their feet in the chilly air. We are no longer
ANNIE CROFT, billed to be at Sydney Royal with “The Girl
Friend” on January 19.
in the Holy Land, we are on a Sussex wold,
but who cares? The expectant shepherds go,
singing an old English air. Once more the
choir sings, and behind the sky-blue curtain,
which closes the end of the stable, Mary,
attended by a second angel— appropriately
enough a female (Ruth Conabere) —is deli-
vered of a Royal Child. Joseph, who has
never nursed an infant of his own, knows
exactly how to hold the Son of Man. The
infant is cold, and he warms it by holding
it before the steaming nostrils of the kine.
The shepherds, singing their song, return and
pay homage. One gives the Infant his bat-
tered hat to shield His head, another his
mittens and the third his pipe “to make
Him merriment.” The Three Wise Kings
arrive out of the East, bearing costlier gifts,
and are intercepted by Herod (E. J. Arnold),
raging at the news of the advent of a rival'
king. Nobody is interested in the preser-
vation of his temporal dynasty. It seems
a small thing. He orders the destruction
of all the first-born in the land, and that
wholesale massacre is portrayed by three
Roman centurions chasing three nursing
mothers into the shrubbery, whence come
shrieks and groans. The intensity of
Herod’s fury, the persistence of his quest
and the greatness of the issue thereof
raise the story to real dramatic heights.
Regardless of the accepted outcome, one
asks, will he succeed? The choir is
heard once more in a triumphant hymn,
and Joseph and Mary, bearing their precious
charge, steal from behind the stable, and
disappear unobserved in the direction of
Egypt, amongst the trees. The performance
is over, and the audience scatters for its
cars and trams under a sky aching with
stars.
❖ * *
This play was probably written round
about 1470, along with 142 others of the
series, and no doubt thousands of English
yokels in scores of village streets got their
first education in the drama from its curious
mixture of the sublime and the homely, the
mystical and the realistic. Without it and
its fellows Shakspeare might not have created
Cleopatra, or Bernard Shaw conceived Mrs.
Warren. Even the playgoer whose taste
runs to the mystery plays of Edgar Wal-
lace is thus indebted to the mystery plays
of Coventry. And Repertory patrons, pious
and profane, are indebted to producer Clew-
low for two enthralling evenings.
V * *
The Vanboucicaults transferred their
affections to A. A. Milne’s comedy “Belinda”
at Sydney Royal on Saturday, and anyone
who, because of gout, remoteness, lack of
funds or any other evil, has not had the
pleasure of seeing the performance —or,
rather, hearing it, for it is not a comedy of
situation but of words —should restrain the
impulse to go over the Gap and simply buy
the play and read it. Provided he has once
seen the Boucicaults, he will need only the
very slightest assistance from imagination.
If ever a play was written to suit specific
players, this one was written for Irene Van-
brugh, Dion Bouci-
cault and Rowena
Ronald. It is
merely quibbling
for the playwright
to call the parts that
match these three
respectively Bel-
inda Tremayne,
Harold Baxter and
Delia. Belinda is
the Vanbrugh, and
ditto and ditto. It
is, perhaps, pos-
sible that Delia
might not be Miss
Ronald indeed,
when the play was
written that young
lady was only a
child. It is pos-
sible, also, that
Baxter might be
somebody else
quite as well as
Bouci cault, al-
though it was that
gallant producer
who first gave him
theatrical life (in
England, 1918).
But it is absolutely
not possible that
Belinda could be
anybody else but
the Vanbrugh. She
even has as part of
her “book” being
that exquisite Van-
brugh fancy for
changing her words
and tone from the
sublime to the pro-
saic without any
notice. E e v r y
action of hers is a
perfect V anbrugh
action. One feels
certain, for in-
stall c e, that
Milne must have seen the actress of charm
getting in and out of a hammock at some
time or other. In short, Milne bas simply
plagiarised the Vanbrugh, an act which, far
from being heinous, gives to that ugly word
a new and lovely meaning, for Irene Van-
brugh has this in common with many things
of nature, that she might be repeated over
and over again without growing wearisome.
The play itself is a delight—as fresh as
spring water bubbling in the hills and as
sparkling and wholesome. Its story is like
the story of nearly everything that Chris-
topher Robin’s father does—very slight, but
sg whimsical that the very slightness becomes
a merit. The slightness is that of a spider’s
thread, and it would be greedy to complain
because the dewdrop dangling on the end is
not the size of a tennis-ball. Belinda’s
husband left her
soon after their
marriage on a very
slight pretext, and
has been absent for
18 years when
their daughter—of
whose coming he
was unaware —re-
turns from school
to find her mother’s
heart being ear-
nestly besieged by
a poet and a statis-
tician. The daugh-
ter, introduced as a
niece, wins the
affections of one,
and the husband
returns in time to
help straighten
things out.
There is a little
more than that, but
so little that it’s
scarcely worth
mentioning. The
play, as has been
remarked, is one of
word s, e.rj. —
“Delia: ‘Mr. Dev-
enish, you don’t
say you’re propos-
ing to me?’ Dev-
on i s li: “I am.
I feel sure
I am. Delia.
I love you.’ Delia:
‘How exciting of
you!’”.... 0 r
again—“The Hus-
band : ‘A daughter?
Belinda, how could
you let let me go
and not tell me?’
Belinda: ‘You for-
get how you
slammed the door.
It isn’t the sort
of t h ing you
shout through the window to a man on
his way to America.’ ” So it ripples along,
very lightly, most amusingly. This Show-
man feels that if the Boucicaults were
humanitarians as well as being actors they
would not be playing it near the Harbor
at all, but, just by way of bringing a little
brightness into the lives of the inhabitants
at such trying times, would play it in
Aberdeen at every Christmas and at all
other times of giving,
* * *
This Showman had a more revealing view
of the Sydney Grand Opera House panto.,
“Dick Turnagain and His Cat.” than anyone
can possibly have now. He dropped in on a
dress rehearsal, and came aw 7 ay not caring a
hang whether he received a Christmas pre-
sent or not. It is a glittering show, with a
human who is a frog, a human who is a cat, a
Fred Bluett Fitzwarren, a Jack Cannot
Idle Jack, a Hector St. Clair Laugh Clown,
a Violet Lester Dick, a Della Ray Alice, an
Arline Paterson Princess, and, in fact, all
the ingredients of a bright, ticklesome enter-
tainment. ' For the young, as good as a visit
to the moon; for the not-so-young, better
than a visit to Voronof.
* * *
Except for stating that “The Family Up-
stairs” began very well at Sydney Palace
on Saturday night, and that Leona Hogarth,
who is its ‘good girl, would be worth going
along to see .even if the show were not the
good entertainer it is, this page regretfully
announces that it can say no more for the
moment. Reserved judgment next week.
Outside Sydney Fullers last week appeared
the notice, “The Coolest Theatre in Syd-
ney.” Inside the theatre one Mo appeared.
Moral: If you go in for advertising, don’t
bo frightened of contrast.
* * *
A close inspection of Sydney Tivoli
grounds last week failed to bring to light any
record nuggets, but everywhere the fossicker
drove in his spade he turned up a satisfac-
tory amount of light gold. Gautier’s brick-
laying dogs were about the brightest spade-
ful. A fine dog turn, particularly good be-
cause at its best when there is no visible
help being given to the hounds by their boss.
Their acting, whether he is present or
absent, is ding-dong with bevelled edges, and
their little death scene is much truer playing
than many humans this Showman, knows
could manage. Con Kenna and his pilot
still knock a lot of fun out of discovering
the North Pole, though they must be getting
dreadfully sick of their jokes Dy n o ow ’ p
dancers, Marcel and Minka. manage u
ished turn, and altogether the sho iirilli-
balanced, without much outstanaii
ance.
* * *
Melbourne Tivoli’s Christmas box to
. . ... » ingenues,
vaudevillams is a retui erted
the so-called college-girls, whose
MAUD ZIMBLA, who is Clementina in “The Desert Song”
at Melbourne His Majesty's.
singing, playing and dancing filled the
Bourke-street theatre on a previous occasion.
# *
“Beauty and the Beast” at the Palace,
and “Dick Whittington” at the Playhouse,
this year’s pantos, in Melbourne, are
remanded for sentence until next week.
* * *
Margaret Bannerman is back again in Mel-
bourne, this time at the Royal, a theatre
which is harder to fill but easier to sit m
than the Comedy, where Miss Bannerman
previously met her Sedan or Mons or Water-
loo. The opening number is “Other Men’s
Wives,” said to have been written by Walter
Hackett especially for the fair Canadian
herself. Miss Margaret returns the compli-
ment by providing the comedy with a leading
lady as beauteous as a dream.
* V H-
Having scored well at Melbourne Royal
with “Interference,” less owing tri his own
efforts than the brilliant work of some of his
supernumeraries, Leon Gordon changed to the
Comedy and “Scandal” on Saturday. As
Pelham Franklyn, he presents a man so
charged with cynicism that it is a wonder the
acid of his manner does not eat away the
metal of the bed which is a prominent fea-
ture of the piece. After whispering “Scan-
dal” in the ear of Melbourne for a couple of
weeks Mr. Gordon will give himself a third
opportunity to appear in the role of Lucifer
.—this time as the fallen waster of “White
Cargo.”
* * *
Adelaide show's are light and seasonable.
Thelma Trott sings well at the open-air
Humphrey Bishop evenings, and Ross and
Helmsley are funny in widely-varying ways.
Barthelmess dries fine work on the screen at
the York as two brothers, prosecuting him-
self for murder in a scene where the camera-
man must share the credit. This house has
also a drama of divorce, played entirely by
cats. Wondergraph is effective with horse
and mountains in “Kit Carson,” and the
Regent adds some really good dancers to a
week of humorous films. But one would like
more of the scenic effects lately, shown at
the Town Hall by the M.L. Government.
The South Island beauties are a revelation
to stay-at-home Australians.
* * *
To-night (Wednesday) Amy Rochelle will
be principal boy in “Little Red Ridinghood
at the Empire, and at the Royal the Van-
boucicaults will change on Saturday to “Mr.
Pim Passes By.” To-day (Wednesday) this
Showman will stage his annual tragedy
entitled “Suffering a Recovery.”


PEAPES
Olothe men AND their sons.
With 1929 so close, Peapes take
this opportunity of extending good
wishes for the New Year to their
many clients throughout Austral-
asia, and to assure them that the
policy of QUALITY, VALUE and
SERVICE which has governed
The House of Peapes since 1866
will be as rigidly maintained in
the future as in the past.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
mm
■ H
'T'he purest tobacco only ,
wrapped in snow-white
paper without any trimmings
has made t<c Uhe Qreys” the
best Virginia Cigarette.
It's the Tobacco that matters
GREYS
io for qcL CIGARETTES so/on/6
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO. Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Ltd. [NSG9
Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/6.
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 16/-, or
a la carte, minimum, 15/-
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Jack Woods’ Ambassadors Dance
Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines be/ore 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Eureka” : The Pambula River, in the far
south-eastern corner of N.S.W., is
a great place for the nomad. Here
he can live rent free, and not worry
about H.C.L. Fish abound in the
river and they are easily caught,
while oysters are to be had in thou
sands. Along the banks apples,
pears, peaches, plums and apricots
grow wild; so do pumpkins, pota-
toes, sweet potatoes, marrows and
melons. These are self-sown, be-
ing carried down the river from the
gardens above during floods.
¥ ¥
“Brady’s Lookout”: Because he had a dog
that could count, Tom Blank lifted sheep for
years, and though suspected and watched
was never caught. It was a chance remark
of an old shepherd that ended the game.
“If they was my sheep,” the shepherd said,
“I’d pizen every dog he’s got. 1 fancy his
lifter is a little black bitch he calls Night,
but you can’t be sure—he’s too cunning.
The only way is to get the lot.” Someone
took the hint, and one day when Blank re-
turned home lie found every one of his dogs
dead on the chain. He never got going
again at the old game, and after a year or
two sold out and moved to another part of
the country. .When he was a very old man
I was driving sheep on the road and met him.
We pulled up for a yarn. “They’re not bad
dogs,” he said, looking at the two I had
working; “not ’arf-bad dogs, but you should
have seen a little black bitch I had years
ago. I could go through your run —that is,
if I wanted to—on the darkest night and
you’d never know I was there. And if you
did drop on to me by chance you would not
see her. She was never with me. She worked
to the four taps,” he said, as if speaking to
himself. “Taps of what?” I asked him.
“Taps of a stick on a tree, or on me boot if
there wasn’t any trees. One tap at a time
THE VICTOR.
MRS. RAFFERTY. “Ten stitches did the doctor have to put in me old mahn after the
fight wid your old mahn last night.”
MRS. HOFAN: “Ten, was it? Sure when the doctor seen me poor husband carried in
this morning he says ‘Have any wan got a sewing machine?’ ”
here and there let her know the way I was
making; two quick taps and she'd bark
twice—two short yaps, not very loud, and I
knowed where she was; three quick taps
and she’d bring the sheep to me. If you
wanted to call her off, four quick taps did
the trick. A man could have lifted half the
sheep in the country with her if he’d wanted
to.” “What became of her?” I asked. “Piz-
ened,” he said. “Some dirty, low swine
pizened her on the chain. I tried dozens of
pups after I lost her, but could never get
another to pick up the count. Well, goo-
day!”
*** . *
“Cuchulain”: “Puddcn’s” mention of Mt.
Cornish station (B. 28/11/’2B) reminds me
of a tragedy which occurred there years ago
—one of those unforgettable stories. It was
in the so-called “desert country,” in thick
spinifex. Here in a dry season the earth used
to break away into bad holes under pres-
sure. In one of the 7000-acre paddocks a
stockman rode into one of these brittle
patches. His horse’s foot went through the
earth and threw him into a four-foot hole.
The horse scrambled out, but the stockman’s
back was broken, and by the time a rescue
party arrived- he was dead—but his fingers
were worn to the bone with scrabbling
at the sides of the hole trying to raise him-
self even sufficiently to look for help.
* * * *
“Bill O’C.”: “Bill R.” (B. 5/12/’2B) and
his “every fur-hunter and bush-expert in
Australia,” who “know definitely” certain
things demonstrably wrong about the embryo
of the marsupials, should send a commission
of inquiry to the Adelaide Museum. There
they might open their eyes at a dozen speci-
mens preserved in spirits of the foetal and
infant marsup. (in this case kangaroo and
wallaby) from the earliest stage of develop-
ment to the fairly advanced pouch-living
infant. These were collected, prepared and
presented by Prof. Wood Jones, one of the
cleverest anatomists and biologists that Aus-
tralia has seen, for the special confounding
of bush dogmatists. Even the youngest speci-
men isn’t “shapeless” by any means, and it
isn’t “ the size of a pea” either, as bush
naturalists are fond of saying. The legs, for
instance, are sufficiently developed to permit
of the crawl to the pouch when delivered, and
the mouth is adapted for sucking. Also the
smallest is from half to three-quarters of an
inch long, though when it reaches the teat it
certainly contracts into what, to casual
observation, looks like a round amorphous
lump. The “small aperture” exuding a little
blood when the infant was torn from the
nipple represented rudimentary jaws and
teeth, clinging very tightly, by a wise pro-
vision of nature in such a case. “Bill R.’s”
confident assertions are the old story of
defective observation and exaggerated re-
port. The manner of birth and nurture isn’t
“a theory” of Dr. T. T. Flynn or anyone
else, but of scientific conclusion from
anatomical knowledge verified by actual
observation of the process of birth in more
than one part of the world. Wood Jones
made a special point of explaining the whole
thing (with the aid of his specimens) a year
or two ago to a collection of bush die-hards
who had been fiercely bombarding the news-
papers with their “born-on-the-teat” hypo-
thesis. The one with the longest bush ex-
perience, who had killed and dissected (after
his own fashion) any number of kangaroos
to satisfy his curiosity, afterwards publicly
and handsomely confessed his error,
*/* * *
“Gustave”: The old-timers say shearing is
a ] os t art, but there are Still some pretty good
men in the game. R. Sawallish, at Dalgety
Downs station (W.A.), during the recent
shearing season, shore 304 sheep in one day,
and the total for the day for himself and
fi v e others was 1,365. Amongst the party
was a newchum, who accounted for 155
sheep, the tallies for the other four men
being 235, 234, 226 and 211. During one
week a total of 6916 sheep was dealt with
by the six shearers. It probably isn’t a
record, but it’s pretty fair going for these
allegedly degenerate days,
* * * *
“Sucker”: “Sucre” is at sea when he
refers to Angora goats on the islands inside
the Barrier Reef, particularly the Whitsun-
day Islands (B. 15/12/’2B). I know a few
0 f the isles, and I know of a few more,
There’s not an Angora goat on one of them,
They are just ordinary goats run wild,
j n the nineties, or thereabouts, the Govern-
ment of the day placed goats on all these
isles as an aid to shipwrecked sailors, if any.
The goats took hold and thrived. The ship-
wrecks have yet to come. Strangely enough,
over 90 per cent, of the goats are pure white,
Odd freaks of color may show themselves;
but they don’t perpetuate their freakishness,
All, or nearly all, islanders live on goats for
mutton. I’ve killed a wether scaling within
a touch of 80 pounds dressed, and from which
over a gallon of fat was rendered down. But
they’re wild—suffering goodness, they’re
wild!—and a man loses his wind and sweats
a i o t ere he’s stalked and shot a couple of
them.
(Continued on next page.)
COOTAMUNDRA WATTLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
In the mournful winter evenings, when the
creeping mist again
A chilly veil of beaded moisture weaves,
When the ragged brown chrysanthemums lie
draggled in the rain,
And the sliding drops are falling from the
eaves;
With the street-lamps’ murky haloes, and
no color in the west,
My spirit keeps a heavier sense of ill.
Tis such a narrow, dreary place, and lonely
at the best,
The world beyond my narrow window-sill.
Till there comes a sudden waft of subtle
perfume from the alley,
And straight-away the present disappears;
We are riding in the springtime through the
ridges of the Mallee,
We are back across the chasm of the
years;
And there our horses stopped to drink beside
the sheepwasli stones,
The mallard whistled to liis mate afar,
And the swimming-pool was brimming with
the fallen red-gum cones,
With the current swirling silver on the
bar.
That way the road to Fairyland, all rambling,
twists and turns,
With the high blue lift of Heaven over-
head ;
With a thousand jewels flashing on the dewy
lady-ferns,
And the gumshoots with their pointed
flames of red.
The flash of scarlet lowries where the stunted
she-oaks grow,
And a kestrel hung above the bronzbd
reeds:
HIS HANDICAP IN LIFE.
WOWSER: “Pull yourself together, my man, and come with me and sign the pledge.”
THE OTHER “I’d like to (hie) ver’ mush ’deed, but (sadly) fact ish, ole man, I can’t
write !”
One by one along the ridges, two by two the
flats below,
Through the tangled rift of river flowers
and reeds.
The clock ticks in the silence, and the fire
is burning low,
And the present calls me backward from
the past;
From my wistful, lonely dreaming of the
days of long ago
Still in the mesh of memory netted fast.
For the Cootamundra wattle in the cramped-
up city alley
Has drawn me back to blossom-time again,
To the sunlight on the ridges and September
in the Mallee,
With the fragrance of its flowering in the
rain.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up—Beautiful
lighting effects—A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Caffi de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines').
(.Also under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
‘Rick! Fruity.
Y'
From an old English recipe,
perfected by 60 years of Aus-
tralian experience, Swallow
and Ariell’s Plum Puddings are
made. Their richness, fruiti-
ness and delicious flavor have
made them first favorite in
Australian homes for over half
a century.
ASK YOUR GROCER.
df
d
SwaMw&rGniiMcf
DELICIOUS
PLUM PUDDINGS
"Whereoerljcru^rack jßm/AistraJianJbjcle "
UupOued/j
OeNYER
Don’t taks risks. Have
dependable support with
every comfort by wearing
Denyer’s Elastic Truss.
F;its you naturally and)
has a patent water pad
which is the last word in
Rupture support. Write
•for free pamphlet or en-
close cash as under:
Single 30/- Double 407-
All sizes.
DENYER BROS.,
DEPT. 1, 267 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
“G.E.8.”: The ordinary house cat does
its little bit towards the extermination of
rabbits. It likes them young, of course, but
that is a sound principle. A farmer friend
of mine in Maoriland could never keep a
house cat after Bunny started filling the
nursery. Puss would start off one morning
while the dew was on the grass, with never
a word of farewell, and after that all they
would see of her would be a glimpse of a
well-fed cat scuttling through the bush as
though she’d never seen a human before.
Then, when Bunny was too big to catch, there
would be an abject, apologetic puss one morn-
ing, on the doorstep saying, “I won’t do it
again—till next time.”
* * $ *
“Murrungurry”: While working in a ring-
barkers’ camp Yabbering Billy was accused
of stealing half a bottle of rum, which he
stoutly denied. A week afterwards one of
the men discovered the bottle in a ’possum-
hole in a small gum-tree near their own tent.
Tne contents had not been touched. “How
did that get there, Billy?” he was asked.
“By cripes,” said Billy “If I know that
THEIR ONLY DIVERSION.
“Now, look ye here, Mrs. O’Connell, can’t you and Michael live happily together
without this continued fighting?”
“Not happily, yer Rivirence—not happily.”
bottle been there him been empty now. Mine
think it you been, plant him there, boss,
when you been drunk an’ forget to remem-
ber when you been sober.” By general
consent Billy was exonerated.
* * * *
“Pigcat”: “Wingella” is partly correct
about the swarming of white ants (B.
5/12/’2B). When the
males and females have
left the nest they stream
away as “Wingella” de-
scribes. But those which
leave are the future
queens and their consorts.
Workers are wingless. I
have watched thousands
of them, and I have yet
to see a pair of wings
drop off, as “Wingella”
states they do. Always
I have seen the winged
ant, after bustling round
a bit, and finding things
fairly well to her liking,
lift the end of her tail,
prise that under a wing,
and, with a click, lever it
off. Ditto on the other
side, and she’s shorn all
round. Then she and her
consort take up the busi-
ness of life, rummaging
under leaves and stones
and establishing a cot-
tage with all mod. con.
He soon gives the game
best and turns up his
toes. She then has to
battle for her life, feed
herself, lay her myriads
of eggs, attend them and
do all domestic duties.
But when the larvae have
hatched and take up the
labors of life the old
queen sits back and has
an easy time. Her every
want is then forestalled,
and she has nothing to
do but drag her body
about the nest which she
started and lay, and lay, and lay.
* * * *
“Ess”: Hundreds of times I have seen
Binglii on the wallaby, going from one camp
or squattage to another, but never saw him
carrying a swag. Sometimes he carried a
small bundle in his hand, or on the end
of a stick or spear on his shoulder. _ When
mounted he sometimes carried a swag in front
of him. strapped to the pommel of the saddle;
but that he dodged, too, if a packhorse was
available. On all other occasions poor old
Maggie was the packhorse. One healthy-
looking buck I met was riding a scraggy
moke whilst his gin trudged behind with the
swag. The dunnage piled up on her back
made her look in the distance like a toiling
camel. “Why don’t you put the pack on the
horse, Jacky?” I asked him. Jacky looked at
me as if he had a poor opinion of my intelli-
gence. “Horse got enough to carry now,” he
said.
* * * *
“Waranbini”: Derry was sitting on the
bank of the river at Tattumbah (N.S.W.)
watching the farmers’ wives filing on board
the floating store with buckets and baskets
of eggs, which they exchanged for groceries.
He interviewed two or three that he knew
to get the hang of the business. Then he
said to his gin: “My word, that the good
way get um big pfeller tuckout. You puli'
away find um where plenty nest sit down.”
On the store’s next visit to the depot Derry
and family trooped down with 37 dozen eggs
in old kerosene-tins and broken buckets.
“Where’s your poultry-run, Derry?” asked
the skipper, as he counted them into boxes.
“Oh, that one big swamp longa bush,” said
Derry. He had robbed the wild ducks.
❖ sj: s*: : j:
“Sea Nomad”: In the Hon. John Douglas’s
day, he took a party in the Albatross on a
cruise through Torres Strait. The Bishop of
Queensland was aboard (there was no diocese
of Carpentaria then). They visited Massig
Island, where Ned Moseby had carved himself
out an island kingdom. Ashore were Ned and
Walker and Captain Dubbins just recovering
from a rum bout under the palms. Ned
hospitably invited the landing party up to
the house, where they were served by Ned’s
native wife and a bevy of giggling girls,
each handing out cocoanut-milk. During the
convivialities the Bishop inquired “And what
may your denomination be, Captain?” Mose-
by scratched his head and glared at Dub-
bins. “I dunno,” he said thoughtfully; “what
are we Dubbins?” The natives held their
breath as Dubbins glared at Walker for en-
lightenment. “I dunno rightly,” Dubbins
replied at last, “but I believe I’m a Presby-
terian.” The question was quite beyond
Walker. “Dunno wot I am,” he mumbled
in a muddled way. “Maybe I am. maybe I
ain’t.” “I know what I am now,” broke in
Moseby brightly. “I’m a corroborean !”
MY BIRD OF PARADISE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.
We might have carried copra,
We might have carried jam,
Or gaspipe guns for Goa,
Or gravel for Guam.
We squared away from Daru
AVith all our papers clear,
To berth our trading schooner
One morn by Cooktown pier.
We’d traded down by Timor,
From Singapura town;
We brought a lot of cases
Unto a sultan brown.
“Pianos for de harem
To make de yunglc gay”—
Our cross-eyed skipper told us—
“Und py and py de Dytchman
He hear de music play.
“Und py and py de Dytchman
He dance like plitty hell!
Dis war down in Sumatra
She going goot and veil;
Onless ve bring pee-anos
Unto de Achincse,
Since hundret year been fighting,
Hees fighting liaf to cease.
“Vich vos a gruel pjty—
Und so ye” (trueborn sons
Of common canine ladies)
“Ve runs der bally guns;
Und so ve gets our brofits,
Mit every man his lay,
But if der varsliip catch us
Ve kiss einselfs goot-day.
“He take us by der yungle,
And mit der gottam lead,
De greasy cow he fill us
Until ve goot and dead !
Und so ve sticks together
An’ ‘yah’ is goot as ‘yes’;
De guilder and de dollar
Dey talks de same, I guess.”
AVith cooling winds a-blowing
Across the Coral Sea
’Twas good to lounge and loiter
Beneath the mango-tree;
To drop the pidgin English,
The sarong and the sneer,
And be again the White Man
Who drinks liis bottled beer....
The claims along the Palmer—
Oh what were they to me?
A Seventh Son that never
A first-born son could be,
A leering, laughing waster,
A jeering Englishman,
A double-barrelled failure
From Home and Hindustan !
Now Cooktown streets were lighted—
One night; I know it well—
I loved nor man nor woman,
I feared not God nor Hell
As, blind and devil-driven,
I, reckless from the pier,
Went up to hear the music
And drink my senses clear.
TWIXT THE DEVIL AND
MAGIDTRATE : “Suppose you don’t tell the truth, what will happen to you?”
JACKIE: “Tell it lie, gettit hell.”
MAGISTRATE: “Very good. Now if you tell the truth”
JACKIE: “Tell it truth, gettit twelvemonth.”
I reeled along the taproom
And. in a drunken voice,
Proclaimed the reign of Bacchus
And bade the world rejoice....
She leaned across the counter,
She looked me in the eyes,
The mother of my strong sons,
My Bird of Paradise!
A somewhat sordid story,
But what-the-hell I care !
With happiness my portion
And half a millionaire?
My sugar-lands are greening
By glowing Innisfail,
I scorn the word discretion
And freely tell my tale.
I’d knocked around the oceans,
A seventh seventh son ;
My empty life was ended,
My earthly course was run.
Had not I chanced to meet her,
An angel in disguise,
A-serving drinks in Cooktown,
My Bird of Paradise.
M.v neighbor’s name is Brannigan,
An old-time pioneer ; •
On Sunday afternoon we meet
And drink our bottled beer.
Ilis wife she is an Irish girl,
And keen on scones and tea;
But when I talk to Brannigan
And Brannigan to me,
We do admit, between us both,
The world is very small;
To be contented in old age
It is the best of all.
And some will follow this or that
And hope to grasp the prize :
But ’tis a luckv man who wins
A Bird of Paradise.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


99
ti
‘(The ‘Tyulcno ‘Preference
SrSSSa
/5~*%
IV
ys»d
J*'AS
' i iiv
S"
s&rS'
m
n
nTv w
c3^
£
tgsf&Go£g
■>■
H
bHH
■■■ :
O v
«5
i
■
;
<#
;^i
tio
f
s**
it-
-4
U£« s
i?
4
X
*
*:
0.
«9
W
9.0°
sorcre
IV
99
(gold label)


A Seasonable Visitor.
We hope his visit will be merry and bright. That
everyone will enjoy a cheery, festive season and
bright, prosperous days during 1929.
Winchcombe, Carson,
Ltd.,
SYDNEY, BRISBANE, LONGREACH,
HUGHENDEN, CHARLEVILLE.
! — 1
/V
I iv-C v -
; IJT M :?ksr*n.
-
\i
u;
\ / ■
•>
o i
SS :
i
‘7/5 Quality Never Changes.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing J les
Wunderlich “ Durabest'os” Building
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
For Forty) Years, Manufacturers of Quality)
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
and Roofs
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
SUPER. EVERY TIME!
“Mallee Stump”: I disagree with “Hat-
ter’s” opinion (B. 5/12/’2B) that super,
is a valuable fertiliser only when used in
moderate quantities in conjunction with
others, but that used in large quantities it
is doing incalculable harm in many districts.
“Hatter” says super, acts “principally as
a stimulant,” and helps the young plant to
get a good start and overcome the weeds.
In my view superphosphate is not a stimu-
lant but a food. The principal elements of
plant food are nitrates, phosphates and
potash. Australian soils generally are
markedly short only of phosphates, so that
only phosphates are necessary to the pro-
duction of cereals and legumes. Should there,
be any shortage of nitrogen the growing of
leguminous plants, such as peas, beans or
clovers, will supply the deficiency. Fallow-
ing is also an aid to the storage of nitrogen,
but the only way to supply the deficiency in
phosphates is to put it into the soil in the
form of super. The tendency generally is
to under-estimate phosphatie requirements
rather than to over-estimate them. I have
used up to 2cwt. 45 p.c. super, per acre on
fallow for wheat, and found that 1871 b. to
2201 b. paid me best, with 1121 b. for peas and
901 b. to 1201 b. for top-dressing pasture lands.
I purchased a farm in S.A. in a 23in. rain-
fall in 1920, when it was so poor that it
would not keep half a sheep per acre nor
grow more than 10 bushels of wheat to the
acre. This year the farm is carrying three
sheep per acre, and the crop bids fair to
average between 25 and 30 bushels, due to
liberal dressings of super.
Super, should never be mixed with any
other fertiliser save on the advice of a
chemical expert; in many cases one fertiliser
neutralises another.
SOUR SOIL.
“R.X.B. : The usual cause of a failure
or a poor crop when climatic conditions have
been suitable is sourness of the soil, and
this is a condition that is more usual than
is suspected, especially in coastal areas
where the rainfall is more or less regular
and heavy. An old-fashioned test of sour-
ness was _ the growth of sorrel, but recent
investigations have proved that the presence
of. sorrel does not necessarily mean that the
soil is sour, nor does its absence prove that
the soil is not sour. Bad Ly-drained soil is
always sour, and this condition will appear
in cases where air is excluded from water-
logged soil or soil impacted by the trampling
of stock. An excess of organic matter when
a crop has been turned in, and in peaty
soils, where there is always an excess, wiil
result in the formation of one or more of .the
acids that are fatal to plant life.
The experienced hand will immediately
detect sourness if he smells a handful of the
suspected soil when it is wet. The inex-
perienced hand can’t tell. Litmus paper is
no good to him, as all cultivated soils have
an acid reaction.
If the cause of sourness is bad drainage
the remedy is obvious. In the other cases
the soil must be exposed to the air by
thorough cultivation, after which a liberal
addition of agricultural lime will sweeten
the land. The lime must be turned in.
THE BUSHEL.
“R.X.8.”: The bushel is a confusing
measure, varying with every commodity and
every country, and this Australian list may
come in handy pasted in a scrapbook or on
a wall:—
Weight Weight Bushels
per per per
, Bushel, Bag, Bag,
„ lb. lb. No.
Bran 20 160 8
Barley .. .. 50 200 4
Beans (vegetable) .. 20 40 2
Beans (dry or seed) . . 60 240 4
Maize .. . . . . 56 224 4
Oats 40 160 4
Wheat . . . . 60 180 3
Pollard .. .. 20 180 9
Peas (vegetable) . . 28 56 2
Peas (dry or seed) . . 60 240 4
Fruits and some vegetables are packed in
full-, half- or quarter-bushel cases, and are
measured by cubic capacity and not by
weight.
VALUE OF COWYARD MANURE.
“Bosso” : Although experiments have been
made which have proved beyond doubt the
value of cow manure in improving the
organic content of the soil, and enabling the
farmer to obtain the maximum results from
commercial fertilisers, many dairy-farmers
still allow most of it to go to waste.
Some years ago an interesting experiment
was made by a farmer on the N.S.W. South
Coast. A paddock was ploughed early in
summer and left in fallow until March.
About that time over an inch of rain fell,
and the paddock was prepared for a fodder
crop. A mixture of Algerian oats and field
peas was sown. The paddock was divided
into three plots. No. 1 was given neither
commercial fertiliser nor manure; No. 2 was
given commercial fertiliser at the rate of
2cwt. per acre; and No. 3 was given a heavy
spread of cow manure in addition to the
fertiliser. The result, when the crops from
the different plots were weighed in July, was
as follows: —No. 1 plot: growth too poor to
bother about; No. 2 plot: 8 tons 7cwt. per
acre; No. 3 plot: 11 tons 16cwt. per acre.
The results speak for themselves.
GROUP RAM-BUYING
“Breed”: Co-operation of a very practical
and helpful sort is practised by a group of
farmers on the Darling Downs (Q.). When
it is necessary to purchase fresh rams one
of their number is selected to visit southern
studs, and he buys for the group. If prac-
ticable, all rams are bought from one stud
and railed together, which saves freight
charges and ensures an even type of ram
for the district. The number of rams for
individual farmers runs from 10 to 100. In
the case of rams of the same price lots are
drawn to decide the order in which the mem-
bers of the group shall take their pick, and
as only one ram at a time is selected each
Thousands of men fail on the land because they don t know how to
succeed; many thousands more succeed less than they should because
they lack proper guidance.
“The Bulletin” wants to encourage farmers and scientists who know
to help those who don’t know.
With that object it offers two prizes of £2O and £lO for the most
useful contributions to the “Land” pages during the six months
ending June 30 next.
All contributions submitted, whether published or not, will be con-
sidered in awarding points, and the prizes will go to the winners
of most points. t
Points will be awarded for interest and practical usefulness.
The prizes are additional to the usual payment for published
contributions.
farmer gets a fair spin. The system has
been running for years, and gives perfect
satisfaction.
PORTABLE SHEARING PLANTS'.
“Breed”: The small portable shearing
plant, by saving the knocking about
of weak sheep and the accumulation of dust
in their wool, has saved thousands of pounds
in Queensland. Slowness is an objection, but
even that is compensated for by the fact
that shearing can be done in the paddocks
at any time. During May of this year I
saw an example of the value of the portable.
Three thousand weak ewes were on agist-
ment country where no shed was available —
the nearest one was 150 miles away—and
unless rain fell there was no hope of their
doing the distance. The ewes were carrying
over 12 months’ wool, and, the dry weather
continuing, a two-stand portable was ob-
tained. The ewes w r ere shorn without loss,
and after losing their fleeces put on condi-
tion, although on poor feed. Had they taken
the long trip to the shearing shed most of
them would have died, and many would
have also died had they been compelled to
retain their heavy fleeces.
BROKEN fleece.
“Classer”: The high prices paid for broken
fleece wool have caused some farmers to tear
up fleece wool and brand it broken, thinking
that by doing so they would get better prices.
The idea is, of course, wrong, and farmers
should know that wool branded “broken” is
not torn-up fleeces, but generally consists of
the neck portion. In clips where heavy skirt-
ing is gone in for the fleeces should first of
*all be skirted of all the rough and fribby
pieces, and then the neck and breech por-
tions should be taken off and put into sepa-
rate bins. The neck wool is in most cases
the finest and longest stapled, and can be
branded “broken” ; the breech being branded
“Ist pieces,” and the skirts made into “2nd
pieces,” “pieces” and “stained.”
Don’t tear up inferior fleeces and throw
them in with the broken. The sale of a good
line of broken is often spoilt by the presence
of short and heavy-conditioned pieces of fleece.
If there is not sufficient of these, cull fleeces
to make up a bale and put them in a sepa-
rate bag. In all lots of broken, care must
be taken that no fribby or stained pieces
are included; see that the wool-rollers skirt
all these off. It’s important, too, that atten-
tion should be given to the soundness or
otherwise of the broken. Keep all tender
wool out, and if necessary make two lines.
Careful sorting, and picking of broken
fleece will make it the best line of the clip,
but it does not pay to sacrifice the other por-
tion of the fleece to get a fancy price for one
small line. It’s average right through that
counts in the wool cheque.
CANADIAN CATTLE.
“Poley”: The recently-expressed intention
of the N.S.W. Government to import modern
types of beef cattle with a view to improving
beef production in the State has taken con-
crete form in the purchase of a number of
Black Cap poll Aberdeen-Angus cattle from
the famous Glencarnock stud in Canada. The
modern trend in favor of young and quickly-
matured beef has frequently been dwelt on
in this page, and the Government’s recent
purchase represents an attempt to comply
with this demand, both in the home market
and in those overseas. It is with the aid of
the Angus-Aberdeen that Argentina and the
United States have established their suprem-
acy in the beef market, and it is apparent
that Australia will have to follow suit and
produce baby beef if the country is not to
lose its remaining hold on overseas markets.
In Q’land, Australia’s greatest beef-producing
State, it has been left to private enterprise
to endeavor to bring beef-production into
line with that of the leading overseas com-
petitors.
“LUMPIESL”
“Paul 0.” : The vets call the disease acti-
nomycosis, but this is' too much of a mouth-
ful for cattlemen, who allude to stock with
unnatural enlargements as “lumpies.” The
disease is caused by a germ that enters
the mouth. It .may affect the lips, tongue
or jaws, when those parts are in an un-
healthy condition. The germ may also gain
access to other parts of the body through
open wounds. It is no use wasting time and
money trying to cure this disease when it is
seated on a bone, for before the enlargement
breaks the bone has become honeycombed
and swollen'. Even when the trouble attacks a
fleshy part, it is better to destroy the animal
than to allow it to run with sound stock.
I have known cases cured by giving three
dram doses of iodide of potassium every
day, but it was a long and tedious job l . Dairy
cows are sometimes attacked by the disease
in the udders. Small lumps form contain-
ing matter, and in other cases the whole
udder becomes hard and solid to the touch.
SUB. CLOVER IN THE WEST.
“Adsum”: Not many years ago some of
the cockies in the south-west of W.A. got
together and talked of the virtues of sub-
terranean clover. Many had tried paspalum
and other grasses and seen them wilt and
fade or become a nuisance, affording the cows
neither comfort nor support. So they got
the clover and dug it in or scattered it
broadcast on roughly-prepared paddocks. The
birds and the wind have done the rest. To-day
there are miles of succulent feed or hay
lying about the country from Pinjarra to
Bunbury and from Collie to Bridgetown—
but dashed few cattle on it to profit by the
enterprise.
TO THE UNSUCCESSFUL DAIRY-
FARMER.
“Nella”: The old proverb about giving
a dog a bad name seems to apply to dairy-
ing in Australia, where the game is supposed
to represent a life of ceaseless drudgery in
an effort to scrape together enough to fi
the insides and cover the outsides or t
farmer and his household. That should no
be the state of affairs to-day. There are
plenty of cases where dairying represents
too much work and inadequate returns, out
where that is the case it will be found, either
that the man running the show is not a fit
and proper person to be dairying, m wmcn
case he should get out and try something
else, or that the fault lies in bad organisa-
tion both of the farm and the work. It may
be that there is insufficient feed from grazing
areas, cultivation paddocks and reserves to
support the number of cows run, and it will
generally be found that the herd contains
too few reliable milkers.
If this applies to you, overhaul the organi-
sation of your farm, and get someone to
talk it over with you. Work out, for instance,
how much time and effort you would save in
a year if you built a fireplace at the dairy
instead of going backwards and forwards to
the kitchen for hot water. An instructor
from the Dairying Branch of your State’s
Department of Agriculture can be brought
to your door by a letter, and his advice will
be worth having.
The main secret of successful dairying is
having reliable milkers and enough feed to
keep the milk supply up. If you have these
two advantages alone your financial position
should be quite healthy, apart from extras
that pigs, calves and catch crops will bring.
You cannot depend on natural grasses. They
will not provide the right kind or amount of
feed for milk production. however big the
grazing area. Plots of cabbage, oats, barley,
maize or millet must be kept going, and these
can only be replaced by paddocks sown as
permanent pastures. Silage will solve all
the problems of a bad season, and will cost
very little if properly laid down in pits. A
big cut in the price of hand feeds can be
saved by buying on the right market. ,
When it comes to the cows, you know
without being told how many of them are
passengers, and you know that if you only
had half a dozen like old Strawberry you
would get as much from them as you would
from the whole herd. Just think of the
reduction of work and feeding that would
mean. What you don’t know is that some of
your cows would give as much milk as old
Strawberry if you knew which they were,
and handled and fed them specially, while
others will never be much good however long
you keep them or however well you feed
them. That is where the dairy experts, with
their herd-testing system, could put you on
the right track if you cared to give them the
chance.
“Ah,” you’ll say, “all that would be well
worth while perhaps, if it wasn’t for that
mortgage”—or that overdraft or some other
slug that is knocking the heart out of you.
But why not have a yarn with a solicitor
or the bank manager about that? Your
position perhaps isn’t as black as you are
painting it, and even if it is they can pro-
bably show you half a dozen ways of mixing
some white with it.
CROPS ON THE DAIRY FARM.
“Cowcatcher”: “R.X.8.,” from Burradoo,
N.S.W. (B. 21/11/’2B), gives some advice
to cow-cockies as to catch crops. As most
of us know, his location is well situated for
all-the-year-round cabbages and peas, but
many dairy-farmers have neither the soil
nor the rainfall suitable for such crops. It’s
a safe general rule, anyhow, for the cow-
cocky to stick to liis teats, growing only such
feed as will ensure against famine in the
dry spells. A small side-line of cabbages
or peas is not worth the labor involved,
while to handle an area that would bring
a decent cheque takes more time than the
average dairyman has to spare.
THE HORSE COMES BACK.
“FY7”: Those Australians who are ob-
sessed with the idea, already exploded in
other countries, that the tractor and the
motor-driven vehicle in general have sounded
the death-knell of the horse may have reason
in the future to revise their notions. Practi-
cal experience has shown that for many pur-
poses the horse is more effective and much
less expensive than the motor-tractor or
vehicle. No less an authority than Sir Walter
Gilbey has recently pointed out that for
short haulages, up to seven miles or so, the
horse is superior to the motor, with the
result that in Europe and America alike
municipalities, large carrying organisations
and similar concerns had returned to the
horse as the most efficient and economical
transport and traction unit up tc that dis-
tance. _ In America, too, where the tractor
made its first appearance as- the farmer’s
saviour, its limitations and drawbacks are
being realised, and an increasing number of
farmers are returning to the general utility
horse or mule every year 1 . Those on the land
thinking of scrapping their horses for trac-
tor- or motor-power should first go thoroughly
into the question of costs.
NEW DROVING CONTRACTS'.
‘“FY7”: Of all the branches of pastoral
industry droving has altered least in the last
(Continued on page 25.)


SPORTSMENS DREAMS REFLECTED IN
gggg|§§l|
mm
- ■■
%
’a
. V
Yj
pitpiliii
..
f
-
, I-i
m
mat
-
ill
SaSSsSSs;
i
a' a
4%
ik ll§l
■vs.
I
I
m
V
■
V
■H
■
n
mi
m
m
U
I!
■
■
m
■
Hi
1 msm
:
SHU
Lm
v
H
■
i
D
■ ■
H
H
a
'
■H
I
■
HH Sv
m
V:
V
Iv :S
■
i
Hi
V
■
■
■
i 1
wMms
■\ X V
n
■
«
■
11
It
. V
■ ■
It
I
M
1
,
i
■
a. i
AM
m
1
K
■
Ik
1
I
■
Hi i
■
m
s*
S'
, FROM ALL SPORTS
L
STORES
GIFTS THAT LAST!
TOP-FLITE RACKET. —The fastest Racket ever
made, built expressly for champions;
with a delightful flexibility
90/-
Also Special Ladies’ Model with Non-Slip Grip.
TOP-FLITE JUNIOR RACKET.—A model expressly
made for Junior would-be champions who
insist in following in Father’s footsteps,
“0.5.” RACKET.—A model of outstanding
merit with specially-strengthened shoulders
50/-
90/-
KRO-BAT RACKET.—With specifically-balanced
head. The model favored by famous
players for years
LATEXEAM TENNIS BALLS, per doz.,
85/-
19/6
KRO-FLITE GOLF BALLS.—Appropri-
ately boxed for the season in half-dozen®
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
(AUSTRALASIA)PTY.LTD. FACTORY: SUNSHINE,VICTORIA.


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
f
WAGONS-UTS CO.
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third clas3,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
* Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
mm
urns
The Wonderful Spectacular Sprinkler
The Watering Device that out-distances all others. For the thorough
watering of Golf Courses, Fairways and Putting Greens, Large Lawns
and Bowling Greens, Orchards, Lucerne Fields, etc. The Spectacular
is easily King of all Sprinklers it is the Brainiest Idea yet for thorough
watering, void of the many troubles belonging to other Sprinklers.
There’s no flooding in parts, nor puddling with the Spectacular, and
it carries on without excessive watching. The Travelling Spectacular
may be left working all through the night without the least fear of
trouble.
Spectacular Stationary Type
Price of Stationary Type, com-
plete with Stand and Hose Con-
nection,
£5/15/-
Price of Travelling Type complete
with Hose Connection,
£6/15/-
Descriptive Folder Post Free on
Request.
Spectacular Travelling Type.
flmimmiiiirur
mW /HKmimiifiiiimu
i JOHN
&SONI
niiiiumiiiiim
iiiiimiiiiimiiD
IXO
pry
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
HUSBANDS —Gilt-Edged and Otherwise.
Happy Richard—"making hay”
In his addlepated way.
Like a rough good-natured bear
Wrecking every rug and chair—
Anne holds most embittered views,
Ever gleaning gloves and shoes.
I «,
ITS
ABDULLA
%
0
sss*
THE UNTIDY HUSBAND.
When she hisses—'“What a mess! '*
(Men have murdered wives for less!)
Richard, with instinctive tact,
Does the sweet, forgiving act;
Though his den be tempest-tossed
No ABDULLA’S ever lost.
—F, R. Holmes.
SUPERB CIGARETTES
TURKISH EGYPTIAN VIRGINIA


OU
T'
/)
¥
m
m
■ p i
CLOSE-FITTING
FLEXIBILITY
The Abbey Riding Boot slips on easily,
smoothly fits like a glove. It is
pliant the upper is of supple calf,
most comfortable of leathers. And
elastic insets at the sides ensure that
the boot yields with the slightest
movement.
Its tough, light sole is made of the
best obtainable leather. The upper
is double thickness, being lined with
soft leather. It is shaped to the
curves of the foot.
Order by Post
Right widths and length guaranteed
you have choice of three fittings,
narrow, medium and wide, for each
size. Order Abbey polish as well
Dark Tan for the 42/- boot.
TAN WILLOW CALF, 427-
BLACK BOX CALF, 37/6
New enlarged, catalogue posted on request.
ABBEY
Established over 81 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
Lio4. SYDNEY
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND.
THE WEEKLY TIMES
has always been
THE GREAT FARMERS’ PAPER.
YOU GET FREE
Legal advice, Doctor’s advice,
Veterinary advice, and
answers to all farming questions.
New South Wales edition available
every week.
Price 4d.
Offices: 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
A Saddle Snap
m
m
: : i
mg
a
Here’s the
famous
Station
Poley
Saddle, made by John
Brush of oiled Queens-
land Kip leather on a
steel bar plated tree.
A beautifwll y-shaped
saddle, easy to ride, and a
perfect fit for horse’s back.
Fully equipped with 4-bar
stirrups, leathers, folded
girth and surcingle.
£lO worth for £7/10/- cash.
For Bulletin readers, Freight
Free in Queensland or N. S. Wales.
Order now and secure Free Freight
JOHN BRUSH,
THE SADDLE SPECIALIST,
434 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
371 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Your Boy Needs
Cuticura Soap
To keep his skin and scalp clean
and healthy, and Cuticura Ointment
to soothe and heal rashes, itchings
and irritations and to prevent the for-
mation of blackheads and pimples.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d.. Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
CAPTAIN CRAB
SPECIALLY SELECTED
PLEASES, HOSTESS AND VISITORS
ALIKE
FREE RECIRE-BOOK AT AUL GROCERS
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
GROCERS,
•JHE “EARL” BACON CUTTERS, “made
in Australia,” are always at your service—made
in five models, prices £8 to £3B, cash or terms.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
HUMPHREY EARL, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
DO YOU WANT TO ENTER A PROFESSION?
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life. A profession in
which competition is limited and which offers wonderful opportunities if you have any ability
and are persevering. Our tuition gives opportunities to students not to be found elsewnere.
Write for our booklet, telling of positions, salaries and fees, to-day. Start your new career NOW.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
ALL CLASSES OF INSURANCE EFFECTED,
Probate Disability, Extended Insurance, Non-Forfeiture,
Hospital, Medical and Nurse’s Fees Combined.
Make the event which causes the tax create the cash to pay the tax,
HEAD OFFICE: Hunter House, 26 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
A McLEAN, Managing Director. R. V. BOOTH, Secretary.
A. , & a TNOT7TRIES INVITED.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY. Also at WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales f WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
Throughout the Year \ HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
dash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock, Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney. JAMES KIDD, General Manager for Australia.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
half-century. Stock transfers take place
under very much the same conditions as
they did in the days of Clancy and his mates.
Some of the more modern Queensland over-
landers handling- cattle from the Gulf and
N.T., however-, are now giving stock-owners
the choice of two rates for contract droving.
One is the old method of taking cattle at so
much per head per 100 miles, the owner
taking the risk of losses and paying watering,
dipping, agistment and quarantine expenses,
in addition to facing the consequences of
delays by floods, etc. The new method is for
the drover to take the cattle at a higher rate,
and bear all expenses himself, including those
entailed by delays of any sort. This should
appeal to owners who for one reason or
another would be glad to know exactly how
much the transfer was going to cost them
before the cattle were moved. The drover’s
risk is considerably increased, but his higher
rates and the fact that he can insure himself
against most contingencies should balance
this.
MAKING A PALING FENCE. .
“R.G.” : The easiest and cheapest way to
erect a paling fence and also the most dur-
able method of construction is to dispense
with rails and nails and use plain wire.
First put your posts in, eight feet apart,
then bore two half-inch holes so that the
wire will be six inches from the bottom and
the same distance from the top of the palings.
Run two 12-gauge high-tensile wires through
each hole, draw fairly tight and fasten the
loose end to heavy logs that are free to
move. Start putting the palings in, crossing
the wires between each paling and forcing
the palings as close together as the wire
will allow. As the job progresses the logs
will keep the wires tight. The distance
between the palings depends on their thick-
ness. A half-inch paling will give about llin.
space, which will be small enough to stop
any animal larger than a mouse. If a
smaller space is desired, trim the palings to
feather edges. When a fence is built like
this there’s no temptation to kick a paling off
when the firewood supply is short
STOCK LICKS.
“W.C.R.”: Queensland has pioneered the
way in introducing legislation to control the
sale of stock licks. In future the compo-
sition of licks sold in that State must be
stated on the label attached to each package,
and the guaranteed ingredients will have
to be there. What is required in a lick is
a judicious admixture of common salt, lime
phosphate (sterilised bone, alone or with
rock phosphate, but not super., as the latter
is inclined to “scour”), sulphur, sulphate of
iron, sulphate of magnesia and potassium
iodide (the latter in very small quantity).
The price of such a lick to the man on the
land should not exceed 15s. per cwt.
’WARE GRASS SEEDS!
“Dardy”: Grass ‘ seeds, especially those
that are barbed, cause a lot of trouble at
this time of the year, and when pasture
grasses have barbed seeds it is worth while
to keep an eye on the stock to prevent mouth
troubles from developing and causing a big
loss in condition. The seeds are apt to enter
the soft parts of the mouth, especially the
insides of the cheeks, under the tongue and in
the throat. Then abscessing sets in, a large
lump forms, and later this bursts externally
as the grass seed works its way through.
Cows that are affected won’t feed and quickly
lose condition, and horses will be noticed
to frequently open their mouths and drop
out the food they have been picking.
If external lumps have formed it is best
to open them. Sterilise the point of a knife-
blade by heating it, even if, this has to be
done with a few matches. Then wipe the
blade and make a quick and deliberate cut
across the lump. Squeeze the pus and grass
seed out, and then swab the wound with
peroxide of hydrogen. This should never be
lacking from a farm veterinary kit, as it is
most valuable for cuts and scratches or any
form of wound that is looking unhealthy and
pussing. If the lumps have not formed, but
inflamed spots inside the mouth indicate that
a grass seed has become embedded, I believe
in helping it on its way by pressure, especi-
ally if it is in the cheek, when it may easily
be worked right through.
THE SUMMER PRUNING.
“XSA”: Growers of summer fruits may
now commence their summer _ pruning, save
in places where shade is required to protect
the fruit from sun and wind. Keep a sharp
lookout for water-shoots or those which are
making undue growth. If these have not
been checked earlier they will now be making
their presence felt to a marked degree.
Each new spur is a prospective fruit-
bearer, and should be regarded as such, but
that doesn’t mean that they must all be
allowed to become branches. This would
mean unshapely trees, difficult to prune and
conducive to the growth of small fruit. The
ideal tree has a number of laterals opened
well out and then growing straight up
from the butt. The crop should cluster along
these laterals and nothing else should be per-
mitted to grow. Only one shoot is allowed
to increase the height of each lateral at
pruning, and this will continue the slight
outward spread.
The crop will commence at the fork and
continue, until the new wood is reached. By
this method alone will it be possible to cover
each lateral with the necessary leaf and fruit-
ing spurs. Pruning on these principles is a
simple task, and the fruit being borne close
to the limb, is of first-class quality. Climate
doesn’t affect the principle. This system has
been proved successful in Tasmania and in
the hottest parts of the mainland.
When cutting back in summer it must be
remembered that the operation is for check-
ing purposes only, and that only superfluous
shoots should be dealt with. Pruning on this
plan will create sturdy limbs and strengthen
the whole tree, besides making the winter
pruning a straightforward job.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
(1) My son, aged 16, wishes to take up
wheat-and-sheep farming. How could he
secure the necessary training in Vic and
later get a job? (2) What is a “jaclceroo”
and how does one obtain a position as such?
Would a jackei'oo get an opportunity to
learn wheat-farming ?- —7694.
(1) A lad of 16 is rather young to take
work on a wlieat-and-sheep property; it
would be very much better for him if he
attended one of the agricultural colleges for
a two- or three-years’ course. Dookie and
Longerenong give a good training to lads, but
students are required to take the full course
as outlined in the prospectus. The cost is
£5O p.a.; this covers board and instruction,
medical attendance, laundry, etc. Lads, to
be admitted, should be. of an educational
standard equal to the Intermediate certifi-
cate. As an alternative, if you do not know
of a suitable farm on which to place your
son, it would be advisable to advertise. Many
of our wheat-farms combine wheat and sheep
in their operations. (2) A young man
employed on a sheep-station as a learner,
with a status higher than an ordinary station
employee. He is usually accommodated in
separate quarters, generally with the station
overseer. As a general rule, wheat is not
grown on large slieep-stations such as employ
jackeroos. The tendency in recent years on
smaller slieep-stations is, however, to grow
fodder crops. Such a station would offer
facilities for a young man to get experience
with sheep and cultivation, though an appli-
cant without experience would find it diffi-
cult to get placed. The best plan would seem
to be to seek a position on a wheat-and-sheep
farm in Victoria or the Riverina, and study
the theories underlying successful wheat-
growing and sheep-feeding.
How to kill and dress a sucking-pig ? —
7794.
Use a knife in the usual manner, and
when the carcase is well bled immerse the
pig in a tub of boiling water for a few
minutes; take Out, lay on a board and scrape
off the hair with a sharp knife. Clean feet
and ears, etc., thoroughly, remove entrails
and trim up cleanly. Hang in cool place
till required.
A preventive or cure for the hornet pest
in grape vines. —776l.
There has been considerable controversy
as to whether or not insects actually injure
the fruit; it has been contended that they
merely follow up some other form of injury,
such as sun scald. If the wasps are thought
to be the primary cahse of the trouble a
search might be made to locate nests in the
vitinity of the vines; these' can be readily
destroyed by burning. The species may also
be attracted to sour beer, as many flies are;
if so, insects can thus be destroyed by trap-
ping. Many species of -wasps are decidedly
beneficial on account of their habit of feed-
ing on various injurious caterpillars.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Jimmy Dux”: When stack building, if
100 or so sheaves are required to finish the
last stack, don’t leave it unfinished. Pull a
row or two cf sheaves out of the butt to top
up with. The job looks finished and the top
liocs pirtufi 'nifplv
“O. W. Waireki”: Nip off the flowers that
appear on your potato plants. The tubers
will then grow to a much larger size.
“O.W.WV’: Back-country cockies who
can’t account for Dobbin’s sore back should
look to their stirrup leathers. Riding on
hilly country with long stirrups mejans
more weight on the saddle; so it’s advisable
to shorten up the leathers, jockey style, if
the moke’s back is inclined to get sore.
“Bufforp”: When the hens in intensive
and semi-intensive houses are too fat, or
when egg-laying is falling off in the autumn
and winter, remove the feed hoppers for all
but a few hours daily. After the fowls have
roosted scatter grain in the litter for the
morning, and feed a wet mash in the middle
of the day. Make the birds work for their
living, as the busy hen is not too fat, and is
the one that lays the eggs.
“Silentio”: In putting in straining posts
for a lasting job, or for haysheds and the
like, make the smallest hole possible and fill
it in with cement. It keeps the post upright
for all time, and, best of all, beats the white
ant. The dodge works well in wet areas,
too, where timber is apt to rot under ground.
“Minto” : In India most of the folk that run
fowls for profit feed grain in the morning and
mash in the evening. The grain is given a
better chance to digest during the day, and
there is no danger of fermentation causing
sour crop. The mash at night is easily
digested, and the hen is off the perch bright
and early, ready for breakfast. Surely
there’s a tip in this for folk who cultivate
eges in our tropical North.
“Bill R.”: When a fox has been raiding
the lambing fold or the hen-roost, wait for rain
and then examine the posts around the home
paddock. A fox always scrambles perpen-
dicularly over a particular post in crossing
a fence in his night-time forays, and after
wet weather the mud off his pads will be
found on its summit. Set a jumff-back
rabbit-trap on the post, and he will be your
fox next morning.
“Nyah” : To grow root vegetables on the
irrigated blocks of the Mallee isn’t the
simplest thing on earth, but it can be done.
Prepare the ground before the December irri-
gation, soaking it well during the irrigation.
Then plant the seeds and cover them with
hessian until they germinate, when the hes-
sian should be removed. By this means
enough surface moisture is retained to enable
the seeds to get their roots fairly well down,
and an occasional drink from the watering-
can will carry them on till the next irriga-
tion*,
“C.C.”: When it is desirable to work a
new variety on to an unprofitable apple-tree,
or one that bears fruit that has gone out
of fashion, the usual practice is to cut back
the main branches and graft them in. the
early spring. A quicker way to re-work the
tree and avoid all the textbook paraphernalia
of waxed cloth, etc., is to do it thus: When
the sap is flowing freely, cut back the
laterals, make a slit in the bark at the end,
push in a hud from the bud sticks cut from
a healthy tree of the variety you desire to
change to, secure it by winding strong thread
around the fore and aft portion of the bud,
and finish off by pulling the thread into a
niche in the end of the lateral—the same as
the end of a reel of cotton fixed. I carry
the buds in my mouth, and a reel of thread
in my shirt pocket, with the end of the
thread hanging out. One can work very
fast that way, and the whole tree can be
ro-workod.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Mechanic-driver, Melbourne, wants to
work his way as such to W.A., Northern
S.A., N.Q. or N.T. Ex-medical student, age
28.-75)99.
Married couple, used to all hotel duties,
would like management N.S.W. country
hotel, or wife housekeeper, husband bar and
cel la rman.—799B.
Two energetic brothers (22 and 20) want
to take up dairy and general farm on shares,
Queensland or North Coast N.S.W. Capable
and experienced.—Bo37.
Young man, good education, appearance
and character, stenographer, book-keeper,
wants secretarial or clerical post, Q’land. —
8036.
Youth (18) would like to communicate
with lad, same age, on station who would
exchange books. (To William Smith, Wigel-
mar station,. Bylong, via Rylstone, N.S.W.)
Young lady (23) desires position as sub-
sidised school-teacher, four years’ experience
at one school, no music, Western district
N.5.W.—8020.
Young man, six years’ machinery business,
four years Queensland station, wants job,
town or country, N.S.W., references.—7994.
Educated woman, domesticated, capable,
wants position as governess or lady help,
station preferred.—Bo2l.
Young man wants job in Islands or N.T.;
rider, hard worker, experienced internal-com-
bustion engines.—Bo24.
Invalid would like to receive humorous
books and recitations from Bulletin
readers.—Bo4o.
By single man (32), 6 years’ exp. power-
farming, position with prospect shares, or
clerical. Fluent French; go anywhere.—
8069.
Words of “Not Understood,” by Thos.
Bracken. (To Louis Ruxton, 19 Bent-street,
Nortlicote, Vic.)
Words of “On the Death of Marcus Clark,”
by Kendall, and “The Old Brown River,” by
“Quilp N.” (To A. M. Selfe, Charleville,
Q’land.)
Words of recitation beginning “His hairy
chest was open to what poets call the wind.”
(To Ernest W. Hammond, Harrison-terrace,
Toombul, Brisbane.)
Words of verse “Hang up the Baby’s
Stocking.” (To 11. Clark, Box 78, Swan
Hill, Vic.)
To communicate with prospectors inter-
ested in gold and tin. (To J. J. Brewer,
Comara, Macleay River, N.S.W.)
To correspond with persons interested iu
rare metals, osmiridium, etc. —8007.
To communicate with overseas Bulletin
readers interested in stamp-collecting.—Bo49.
To buy a set of the Coterie, an English
quarterly, published 1919-21. (To Noel
Pearson, 18 Earl-street, Randwick, Sydney.)
To buy books on black and white drawing;
also Hassell’s and Brawshaw’s art courses.—
8058.
To buy copy of Stanley Gibbon’s Stamp
Catalogue, 1928, one or two volumes. —8028.
To buy books dealing with the American
Civil War, by the author (name unknown)
of “The Black Angel,” “The Fiery Cross”
and “Captain George.”—7Bl4.
To buy set of golf clubs ; must be modern
and in good order.—Bos6.
Information Sought.
What are the special features of a N.S.W.
homestead farm lease? —8068.
It is a lease in perpetuity, the principal
conditions being five years’ residence, pay-
ment of rent as due and the carrying out of
such special conditions as may be notified
when the land is thrown open. During the
first five years the lessee may, in lieu of
paying rent, expend during each year a sum
equal to the rent in improving the farm, in
addition to improvements which may other-
wise be required. At the expiration of five
years, and upon fulfilment of all conditions,
a grant is issued to the holder subject to
the conditions attaching to the farm.
(1) What qualifications must one possess
to join the R.A.N. as an electrical artificer?
(2) Between what ages are recruits
accepted? (3) Rates of pay? —Bo49.
(1) Candidates must be able-bodied men
of good character, and must produce inden-
tures showing an apprenticeship of at least
five years or written evidence of practical
experience as fittet and turner or instrument-
maker covering a similar period. An exam,
must be passed in sixth-standard subjects
(vulgar and decimal fractions, simple
interest, dictation and reading) and a prac-
tical exam, in fitting and turning or instru-
ment-making. (2) Eighteen to 28. (3) Com-
mencing pay is £4 os. 6d. per week active pay
and 18s. Id. per week deferred pay.
(1) How much of the Kyogle-South Bris-
bane railway has been completed' on the
N.S.W. and Q’land sides respectively? (2)
Is any portion open to traffic? (3) Is there
a regular motor service between Kyogle and
Bcaudesert, via Richmond Gap? —Bo7B.
On the N. S. Wales portion, which is 26J
miles in length, the rails have been laid to
Wiangarce station, eight miles from Kyogle;
on the Queensland section approximately 49
miles have been laid out of a total length
of 68 miles 15 chains. (2) No. (3) No.
Can you suggest a few suitable books on
(1) various types of mentality and how to
deal with them; (2) intelligence tests; (3)
psychology as applied to advertising? —79o2.
(1) “judging Human Character,” by
Hollingworth (Appleton) ; “Individuality,”
by Thorndike (Houghton Mifflin) ; “Indus-
trial Psychology in Great Britain,” by C. S.
Myers (Jonathan Cape). (2) “Intelligence
Testing,” by Pitner; and “Measure Your
Mind,” by Trabue and Stockbridge (Double-
(Jay> Tage and Co.). (3) “Advertising: Its
Principles and Practice,” by Tipper, Hotch-
£ iss ’ Hollingworth and Parsons (the Ronald
f. ress ) I Advertising and Selling, by Hol-
D n §y or tfi (Appleton).
Where can I get pamphlets dealing with
tr °P ica l hygiene, especially any touching
u P°n acclimatisation, malaria and filariasis?
TC 1 ’ t-.. . n i * w n-v,
£ rom the Director-General of Health, 61
ta A«lima 6 -
tisation” and “The White Alan in the
Tropics”), and Div. Pub. Nos. 3 and 4
(“Malaria” and “Filariasis”).
1 livcd f° r 10 V ears in Stockton (N.S.W.).
About five months ago I left for Newcastle.
name was not on the Newcastle muni-
cipal roll , so on election day I went to Stock-
ton, being enrolled there . The town clerk
refused me a vote because I did not then
reside in Stockton. Is that 1ega1?• —7933.
If You were enrolled in Stockton as an
“occupier” elector, you lost your qualifica-
tion to vote in that municipality on transfer
of y(,ur residence to Newcastle, and the
actlon of the returning officer was in order,
How to preserve the small fish known in
Queensland as “ bobbies ” so that the bones
edible?— -7625.
Bobbies are unknown under that name
to the Queensland fish authorities consulted,
If a tried recipe for canning fish will do, here
; s one> although it is a job for an expert: Clean
fish well; cut up in 2in. lengths; put in a
pickle of 30 per cent, density for 20 minutes;
drain well; then put fish into can, lib. fish
and loz. pickle, at 30 per cent, density. Cook
lj hour at 21h. steam, then lj hour at 51b.
steam.
4 youth under age buys a motor-cycle, part
cash and p.n.'s for the balawce. If he fails in
payment of one pin., can the seller sue him?
—7996.
An infant, in law, cannot be sued on his
p.n.
What was “John Company," and can you
give a brief record of its activities? —79B4.
“John Company” was the nickname of the
English East India Company, which was
founded at the end of the sixteenth century
and 113(1 a R«y al Charter from Queen Eliza-
beth, who conferred on the co. the sole right
°, f tradlll g with the East Indies. Gradually
tlle P° wers of the company were increased,
until the control and government of nearly the
)T hol< \ °f India passed into its hands. But
the charter had to be periodically renewed
and at each renewal the British Government
whittled away some of the co.’s extensive
privileges, until on Nov. 1, 1858, the govern-
ment of India passed to the Crown, and the
East India Company ceased to exist.
TT77 . . , J 7 , . . , 7 .
What is the follow-on rule in Australian
cricket ? 7996
For ‘ordinary, matches : “The side which
bats first and leads by 150 runs in a three-
days’ match, or by 100 runs in a two-days’
match, shall have the option of requiring the
other side to follow their innings.” In
matches for the Sheffield Shield or English
matches in Australia, “200” is substituted
for “150.”
Two mates with a few hundred pounds
but no mining experience would like to try
their luck on the New Guinea goldfields.
Would you recommend the venture? —7976.
No. The fields have ceased to be “small
wiH not. he long before
tle ' vllo e . n Ol . le ? J< 7 1C , Ereek and Bulolo
country will be worked by companies. Few
t he many hundreds who have tackled New
ft
* 11 r 5, lr . monej in a speciaiiseu
° f al J Uvial minln » would be tha wildest
I f. “JL, ’ . 7 9 T „ 7 .
. ts !l^ auC( f ma .- (2) What causes
lt f 181 ds . contagious: (4) Does it
effect the other eye, (o) Gan it be
cur l < f d , without operation? The doctor con-
a ond V is to have the
e ve out. SOlO. _ .
n .) disease in which the intra-ocular
hTvm alWys “bulVS’ *£
~j|j ( 5 ) ( kerine drooi ta l hallfatfve
Operation often effects a P eure; to (ate the
A, t spprTl „ vprv f i ras ,Hp
seems very drastic,
Method of tunning white metal m the
repairing of bearings of machinery ?— 8077.
job should be thoroughly cleaned, and
V? tinned, before attempting to run
the white metal. A mandrel should be pre-
9:U (>(1 H l ® l a trifle smaller in diameter than
t ! le vbat ls l° 71 dt 1S
shmild be v . e^ y carefully polished and finally
smear . ed th a tlua filni bjacklead or
graphite. The mandrel must be set in position
he“ hiKrtaltoSin"
the P casdng. C The end ID platesBholi , ld
be smeared with graphite to prevent the
w hite metal sticking to it. The job should be
1,11(3(1 with fireclay to fill up any fine
crevices through which the white metal could
j eak rP g ar( j g e mP tal to be used, this
( i e p en( ]s upon the class of world For high-
S p ee d automobiles it is considered good prac-
tjce to uge a P j n baSe m etal, whilst for slow
running jobs lead base metal gives excel-
j en j; re sults. The metal should be melted in
a ladle, care being taken not to overheat, and
when thoroughly melted it should be well
stirred. Whilst the metal is being melted, the
part to receive it should be carefully
warmed. This can be done in most cases
with a painter’s blow lamp. When the
part is sufficiently heated, pour the white
metal. When it is set, the mandrel can be
removed, and a scraper used to accurately ht
the shaft to the bearing.
The best Australian trees to plant in a tow
of 52 chains? Ihe 'idea is to have* an 07 na-
mental TO'W on the hounda/iy of a- I ic, Jockey
Club's propel ty. It is good plain land , with
water laid on. <(S9.
Eucalyptus maculata (spotted gum),
Eucalyptus risdoni (Risdon gum), Brachy-
chiton populneus (currajong). and Ango-
phora lanceolata (smooth-barked apple tree)
are all good. E. risdoni and B. populneus
are very uniform in growth and make a fine
regular row. Tristania laurina (water gum),
(Jrevillea robusta (silky oak), Grevillea
hilHana (red silky oak) and Eugenia smithii
(Lilly pilly) may also be recommended. The
secret of success is care during the first
couple of years. Plants are obtainable from
Vic. nurserymen, such as Hodgins and Son,
Moreland-road, Essendon, and Law Somncr.
Block-place, Melbourne. All these trees are
growing in the Melbourne Botanic Gardens,
where a staff man would be pleased to
point them cut to a representative of the
club.
I am about to place a deodorising powder
on the Vic. market. Must I submit a sample
to an analyst? Any special points to
observe? 7577.
There is no need to submit the preparation
to an analyst, but if it contains a scheduled
poison it must be labelled “Poison.” It
would be wise to register the article under
the Vic. Trade Marks Act., Name and address
of manufacturer should appear on label.
(1) Can a life-insurance co. with share-
holders pay bonuses similar to a mutual
insurance co.? (2) Has the one any advan-
tage over the other? —ROTO
'd) Yes. As a rule the shareholders are
entitled to one-fifth and the policy-holders to
four-fifths of the profits. (2) Obviously it is
better to get all the profits than four-fifths
of the same amount. But on behalf of the
office with share capital it is claimed that it
is likely to be more economically managed,
shareholders being greatly interested in re-
suits ; also the share capital is a guarantee
fund (as far as it will go) that the policies
will be paid in full. The establishment of
further purely mutual offices under present
conditions is practically impossible.
(1) What are the. chances of getting a
job as porter on the N.S.W. railways? (2)
How would one set about applying? (3)
Salary? 7788
(1) Poor at present. There is a long list
of waiting applicants. (2) Write the Staff
T 4 n „i i rj, V, io\
Board, Central Station. Sydney (3) Com-
mencing wage for an adult, 14* Bd. per day.
(1) I WUllt to become a paddock or IjCQCI
bookmaker at Randwick• 'What guarantee
does the A.J.C. require? (2) What cash in
hand would it be necessary to have before
commencing to operate? (3) Is there a big
waiting list? (4) To whom does one apply
for a license? —79sl.
(1) The A.J.C. does not accept guarantees
in respect to bookmakers. (2) It would
depend upon the other securities which
the applicant could offer. (3) At the
general licensing in June more applications
are usually received for Randwick than there
are places to fill. Vacancies are usually
filled from the waiting list if the applicants
are eligible. Applications must be renewed
annually. (4) To bet within the metro-
politan area applications must be made to
the A.J.C. Outside that area they should be
made to the controlling bodies of the dis-
triets where persons wish to bet.
Are there any alligators in Australia?
What is the difference between an alligator
and a crocodile? —Bos7.
(1) There are no alligators in Australia,
though the name is often incorrectly applied
to Australian crocodiles. True alligators are
only to be found in the southern States of
North America, in South America and China,
(2) In our crocodiles the fourth tooth on
each side of the lower jaw is much en-
larged, and fits into a notch in the upper
• i. • „
jaw, being thus plainly visible when the
m°ut h is closed. In alhgatois a similai
tooth fits into a pit within the border of
the upper jaw; the typical alligator, more-
over, has a more rounded head and is more
sluggish than the voracious crocodile with
its pointed snout.
(1) Qualifications necessary for the posi-
tion of shire clerk in Q’land? (2) Salary?
(3) Method of application? (4) Could the
qualifications be acauired through a corres-
pondence 5ch001? —7923.
A certificate of competency issued by the
Local Government Clerks’ Board; this is
obtained by passing an examination in Local
Government law, method of keeping Local
Government accounts, English (including die-
tation) and arithmetic. (2) Salaries are
governed by an award of the Federal Arbi-
tration Court; they depend upon the revenue
of each local authority. (3) By letter ; vaean-
cies are advertised in metropolitan and
local *newspapers. (4) Yes; Hemingway and
Robertson and the Blennerhassett Institute
of Accountancy coach by correspondence for
the examination.
47 r• 7 7 j . .
Award wages of girls employed in canning
works m the N.S.W irrigation areas?— Bos9.
For packing fruit into cartons: Over 18
a % e ; f 2 lds - p d - per week; 16 to
18 > . f 2 S " 3d.; under 16, £1 11s. Bd. Lor
eotCng or pitting stone fruits: Over 16,
x 2 16s. Bd. ; 15 to 10, i- 4s. Jd. ; under 15,
f 1 12s. 9d. Girls the age of 18 years
engaged in grading, sorting, wrapping, pack-
ing fruit, seeding raisins, papering boxes,
stencilling brands on boxes and tallying,
£3 6s. 4d. per week.
_. ; ~
Information OUppil6Cl.
7867.—T0 keep cats off a garden: If the
surface of the garden is left rough and un-
even cats are unlikely to bask thereon. If
they do, criss-cross the beds with lengths of
fine wire fastened to pegs three inches high,
and with as close mesh as convenient,
Arrange the wires so that they may easily
be removed and replaced “Bill R ”
7873.—T0 clean dirty'.petrol, pour it into
a funnel in which blotting-paper has been
placed and allow it to filter through. See
ihci*. 4-im 0 4. i
that the hole at the bottom is covered.—
" ■ •
_ A il j V •»
Does Anybody Ivnow !
How to color a white canvas motor-hood
grey?—Bo4s.
Brief Answers.
Charles G.: Apparently not; but the
banking and Insurance Record was silent about
the CCL f or a G f years in the early ’nineties. ...
fj.G.L. ; May turn out all right in the distant future,
buX; it is very speculative. There can be no
return for years. .. .F.Y.: Ditto to you; and you
would probably have great difficulty in selling the
bond if there was need of the money.... V.D.: Cant
sa y positively, of course; but it has good chances.
F.J.M.: Too risky... .W.G.8.: Hold on to the
o |(j office. Apply for cash surrender value of the
other policy; or, better still, take a paid-up policy,
if they will issue one. In any case, take a paid-up
policy rather than cash, if you can possibly do
without the money Forest 50: But you probably
can’t get out of it, anyway. You seem to have
undertaken to pay a certain amount and they will
probably hold you to it A.F.E.: (l) and (2) Not
unless it was specifically provided for. (3) No
reason to suspct fraud or sharp dealing... .Thos.
McK.: It has yet to prove itself; until it does so,
the man who values his capital will stand 0ff....
C.Q.P.: Hasn’t the ghost of a chance... .Triton:
They are too dear... .Aloa: Sorry, but can’t recom-
mend it. There are few places in the world where
merchandising offers smaller profits than in Brisbane.
. ...M.A.S.: Bird experts are unable to account for
the feathers breaking off, and suggest that the bird
should be liberated. They believe there is no cure.
The same applies to birds eating their feathers....
A. 8.: A private advertiser. ...E.G.: Andrew MacCunn
is the conductor at Her Majesty’s Theatre, Sydney;
Claude Solomon is the first violinist and Grace Bar-
nett is the harpist 8.5. R.: No extensive life of
the Rev. Dr. Lang has been published. The best
biography is “John Dunmore Lang,” by Rev. T.
Tait, published by Angus and Robertson in 1923....
C.G.F.: The N.S.W. Govt. Tourist Bureau, Martm-
P lace > s - vd,lp - v > win you with a list of suit-
able boarding-houses in the suburbs you mention,
AlBo > consult the advertising columns of the Sydney
Morning Herald. .. .A.H.T.: “The Oil and Petro-
Manual, 1928,” contains no reference to the
Algiers .Oil Trust, Ltd., London... .C.M.C.: Capt.
B™ce Bairnsfather lias published “Fragments from
France” (6 vols), “The Better ’Ole,” “Bullets
and Billets,” “From Mud to Mhfti,” and “Old Bill,
MP ” Angus and Robertson, Sydney, could obtain
them T.H.W.: Sorry, but under N.S.W. law we
cannot publish details of sweeps conducted outside
th e State W.R.: Write to W. R. Tremlett, eecre-
tar Y- Cat-Fanciers’ Association of N.S.W., 24 Palace-
street Ashfield. J.T.B : (l) Liberal assistance is
off <;*' ed by al tbe States to persons intending to
set * le . on the land ’ <*> Yanes w * th B,ze
and is governed by other circumstances. (3) Write
bands Departments in the various States....
JB ’ : Kn ? w ° Z factory method of increas-
mg y° llr height other than taking plenty of exercise.
Y * u ‘ * ow t seei VO u are y o nly 20....
l>jA . f l} Get doctor to give you a note to
the superintendent Sydney or Prince Alfred hospital,
asking if and when he could give you a bed. But
why come all the way to Sydney? (2) Write M. 0.,
Military Hospital,’ RandwiCk A.T.Ef: Take
plenty of open-air exercise. Eat fruit twice a day:
knock off alcohol or tea (or both if you take them) ;
smoke very little, and never on an empty stomach.
if no improvement in a month, let us know. Get
your chemist to make up a mixture of bismuth, carb.
soda bicarb, and cascara; take it 10 minutes after
meals. .. .J.P.L.: Write Miss Newton Russell, Public
School, Glenmore-road, Paddington, N.S.W
D.8.J.: (l) Sydney agent for the “Encyclopaedia
Britannica,” Times Office, 255 a George-street. (2)
Cannot say... .L.D.A.: (1) and (2) The cost of a
patent application in U.S.A. varies from £3O to
£35. Write for particulars to any of the patent
attorneys advertising in our columns. (3) You
cannot travel direct from Brisbane, but would have
to come to Sydney first. Third-class fares to San
Francisco by the Union Royal Mail Line are £3l
10s - single and £56 return.... Mrs. M.: There is
nothin g to prevent the wife of a N.S.W. civil servant
getting a position if she wishes... .H. 8.:
£ am } ot trace the co. in any of the S.A. directories,
**• Sheppard, O’Halloran-terrace, Mount Gambier,
” ia J r be abl< L t( ? te P you something about them...
J-M.T. : (1) Estimated populations of the States and
territories on June 30 1927: N.S.W., 2,370,623;
Yie -> I, Tor’Zn ’ ! uee ”i a ! < l' M M vl 4 ’ d7 ,-?’ 9 °,° i
W.A. Tas., 208,179; N.T. 4260; Capital
Territory 7535. (2) Populations of capital cities
same date: Sydney, 1,120,510; Melbourne, 944,400:
Adelaide> 316,865; Brisbane, 274,260; Perth,
18 4,223 ; Hobart, 55,130. (3) Broken Hill, 24,010;
Lis 928 0; Grafton, 4840 ; Wagga Wagga,
84X0 . K empsey, 3320 ; Casino, 3540... .H.S.: (l)
n o _ ( 2 ) Drugs will not cure it; operation will,
(3) Yes, if varicocele is the only cause of his weak-
ness. (4) No; any hospital will do. (5) Any
surgeon on the staff of Brisbane, Sydney, or any
similar big hospital. (6) If suffering no ill-
effects would advise leaving it alone A.P.: Write
W. C. Penfold and Co., Ltd., 88 Pitt-street, Sydney.
D.C.: The key to the Greatest-Airman-in-the
Empire competition was: (l) Kingsford Smith, (2)
Cobham, (3) Hinkler, (4) Aleock, (5) Brown, (6)
Ross Smith, (7) Wilkins, (8) Keith Smith, (9)
Ulm, (10) Hawker, (11) Parer, (12) Mclntosh.
Weston Co., Ltd., George and Grosvenor streets,
Sydney, can give you a list of prize-winners...
M.W.: Boer War pensions were assessed by the
Imperial Government; the pension payable would be
governed by the extent of incapacity... .A.S.M : You
can £ et tbe Hornby loco, repaired at the Meccano
Depot, 52 Clarenoe-street, Sydney... .A.Q.: (l),
£ 2 )> ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) Home and Territories Department,
Canberra. (5) Inspector-General of Constabulary,
Suva > Fiji... .H.W.8.: No more than face value at
present: may rise m a few years’ time... .L.U.M.:
A ; nd Prison, Sydne y, have a translation of
Fro s i?sart > s -chronicles” in 8 vols., published by Basil
Blackwell . price> £3l 10s C.K.W.: See reply
to 7630 (B 12 /i2/’2B) V.T.: It is described in
Ramsay’s “Notices on the Migration of Birds in
Australia”; you can see a copy in the S.A. Public
Library... .A.M.1.: Under the Queensland station-
hands’ award, prickly-pear cutters and poisoners cm-
pioyed on sheep stations get £3 15s. per week
keep; 0 n cattle stations, £3 ss. per week
with keep E.R. (New Hebrides): (1) Can’t trace
it. ( 2 ) No doubt there may be safe investments
which we can’t trace, but the chances are against
them. .. .Drips: The bakery for choice. But with
flour weak and threatening to go lower, the business
will want watching W.W.8.: (1) If eyes are
affected, do not go out in the sun without pro-
tective glasses. (2) Open air is better than in-
doors in most cases A.C.S.: Applicants for posi-
Cons in the Royal Australian Air Force should be
between 18 and 35 years of age, enlistment is for
aix years. Address application secretary, Air Board,
Defence Department, Melbourne, and endorse envelope
“Employment” .L.L.: Apparently, you have had
\ he traasferred to y ° u ’ and thas bc<o ™ a
Bha « bolder and-assuming the co to be a limited
liability one—liable for the co.’s debts to the extent
o{ you , holding The transferor . s undertaking to
return the purchase money rests upon the receipt by
him of “cash consideration in the c 0.,” a phrase
too vague to convey a precise meaning. If by
“proposition” you mean the agreement, we do not
thin k much of it—so far as the return of your
money is concerned.... (Many others mailed.)


f
A Patented
Motor Gives
You
Exclusive Performance
With the new patented F-head design Hudson
motors now are built with a compression ratio of
nearly 6 to I—or1 —or 20Z above the average —with
correspondingly high standards of acceleration, fuel
economy and power.
One of the many outstanding features of this new
design is the impossibility of making the motor knock
under even the most adverse operating conditions.
The new Hudson motor is the liveliest, most power-
ful and economical Hudson has ever built. It unques-
tionably gives the most brilliant performance ever
offered in Hudson history, and is far in advance of
anything the industry has ever known.
To take a single ride in a Hudson Super-Six is to revise
your whole knowledge of automobile values. We
shall be pleased to arrange for a free demonstration.
HUDSON.
127 m. Models.
Standard Sedan £550
Landau Sedan 590
7-pass. Sedan .. 685
118 in. Models.
Tourer, Colonial Body.. .. .. 445
Coach, American Body . . . . 500
Coupe, „ „ .... 510
Sedan „ „ .... 520
Five Balloon
Tyres
Standard
Equipment.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMP ANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DISTRIBUTORS;
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
Super Sir


m
mm
m
m
& 8
m
B
23
TU6 PERFECT
IVORY TIP
333
XO for 1/6
ARDATH TOBACCO
CCM-TO, LONDON
SMOKE-OH!
A GLANCE INTO THE FUTURE.
“Mr. Justice Street was surprised to learn that a
working man would require two knitted ties, which
cost anything from Bs. 9d. to 17s. 6d. each. ‘Did you
say 17s. 6d. for a tie?’ he asked. ‘That is so,’ replied
the witness. Cross-examined by Mr. Ferguson, witness
said that workers often purchased panamas, and
prices ranged up to seven guineas.”—S. M. Herald
report of Basic Wage Inquiry.
Darkie Hogan and Spud McPliee, pro-
minent members of the Woolloomooloo
Younger Set, had an afternoon off. In fact,
they have had every afternoon off. Their
union, the United Wliarfboilers —one of the
most exclusive on the waterfront—had been
on strike for weeks. For so long, indeed,
that it was a hot favorite for the coveted
J. S. Garden Mug, presented annually on
April 1 to the industrial organisation which
Was able to show the greatest number of
HIS STERLING QUALITIES.
“He was wasted on Emma. She never realised his true worth.”
“She does now. He left her twenty thousand.”
working days lost during the previous 12
months.
“My shoes have been boned and my silk
hat ironed,” said Darkie. “What would you
say now to a little shopping?”
Spud clapped his hands delightedly.
“What a perfectly gorgeous idea!” he cried.
“I believe they have some of the divinest felts
at Doodle’s, the Tasteful Emporium.”
So after a dainty tea in Darkie’s boudoir
the two sallied forth.
“I do like the front of a tram,” smiled
Spud as they lighted their “Am-bar” cigar-
ettes and settled in their places. “It shows
a toiler’s clothes off so.”
“Move up there, you two big mutts,” inter-
rupted a morose conductor; “you haven’t
paid for the whole seat.”
“Cad!” said Spud under his breath as they
complied.
They reached Doodle’s (“Everything for
Basic-Wagers”) without further mishap, and
were escorted to the Hat Department.
The assistant pointed with pride to ’his
firm’s widely-advertised line in Workers’
Art Headgear. The hats were in all
colors —purple, mauve, pink and vermilion
preponderating —and their ribbons were as
variegated as English cricketers’ ties.
Spud clapped his hands ecstatically. “What
dreams!” he breathed. “How much are
they?” “Five guineas each.” Darkie frowned.
“Rather on the common side,” he objected.
“Every Tom, Dick and Harry about the
wharves will be wearing them before long.
Come, Spud, let us see the panamas.”
The panamas caused even Darkie to lose
his blase air. “How do you think this one
suits me?” he asked.
“Adorably,” replied Spud. “Moreover,
viewed strictly from the class-conscious angle,
and remembering the Marxian formula in re-
lation to proletarian control of production,
distribution and exchange, I submit that it is
priced at au economically equitable and
democratic figure— i.e., 15 guineas.”
“Be so good, my dear Spud, said Darkie
coldly, ‘to separate the political from the
esthetic side of our activities. Remember
you’re not at a stop-work meeting now.” He
turned to the salesman. “I’ll take it. Send
the account to the Trades Hall.”
“And now,” cried Spud, “for the ties.”
“Something suitable in neckwear for two
14-stone wharfies,
intoned the floor-
walker ; and a tray
was placed before
the m. “As now
wo r n,” said the
assistant. “Sir Alger-
non Piute bought one
of these black ones
at ss. 6d. this very
morning.” A con-
temptuous smile flit-
ted over Darkie’s
face. “I was paying
up to 17s. 6d. per tie
years ago,” he said.
“Show me some of
your silk ones in five
colors.” Spud chose
an exquisite medley
in pink, blue and
scarlet. “To go with
my new purple suit,”
he explained. Then
Darkie discovered a
couple of bargains at
395. lid. apiece, and
the little outing was
over.
“We have just time
for a manicure,” said
Spud. “Only a paltry
255. 6d. at a new
place I have found,
and they throw in a
marcel wave as
well.”
D.
CASH CRICKET.
Newspaper corres-
pondents suggest
that Australian cric-
ket may be improved
by offering the chani-
pions better financial
rewards. How about
piece-work rates,
which would lead to
this kind of report-
ing?—
No Overdrafts.
Tellers Have a
Busy Day at S.C.G.
Kelleway banked a
guinea by cutting
Freeman to the fence,
and two balls later
added a similar sum
to his account by a
lovely on-drive. He patted the next for five
bob, and in his eagerness to complete the
half-sovereign narrowly escaped being run
out. Bradman sent him back, and opened
his own account with 31s. —a pull to the
boundary followed by a two. In Larwood’s
over Kelleway was clean bowled, with his
score at £8 ss. However, as he receives £l5
for his three wickets, and 10s. 6d. for catch-
ing Sutcliffe off Oxenham, his credit balance
compares favorably with that of Ryder, who,
in amassing £22 195., scored £l4 14s. in
fours.
With Oxenham as a partner, Bradman
improved his finances very considerably, in-
cluding in his score a superb £5 which landed
in the ladies’ pavilion....
The Englishmen suffered an extraordinary
collapse in the second innings. Kelleway
£lO, Grimmett £3O and Oldfield £6 12s. 6d.
(three stumped, one caught) did best,
leaving the Australians victors by £B9 16s.
6d. p p_
ODDS ON.
THE DUSK : “Well, you’re a queer, half-
starved-looking bird, YOU are!”
THE OTHER: “Yes, but I’ve a darned sight
better chance of seeing the year out
than you have.”
Distrust the Greeks when they bring
fish. —Virgil Aussios.
Eden (N.S.W.) is about to stage a back-
to-Eden show. It is denied, locally, that a
Sydney flapper has been asked to play female
lead in her office frock.
* *
A visitor says that Australia has no
leisured class. The slur has greatly incensed
our waterside workers).
The chickens came home to roast yester-
day.
It begins to look as if the ashes won’t
be easily urned after all.
“Thefts from Flats.”—By sharps presum-
aMy - * *
Jock Garden in Melbourne. “I have my
thinking-cap on.” This is' not the kind of
head-gear he usually talks through.
FOR A NATION IN DISTRESS.
0 Lord, give us the skill to smite
Larwood and Tate to left and right.
In this, our blackest hour of need,
Make of Jack Hobbs a broken reed.
Ah! help, oh help us do our best
’Gainst Chapman in the coming Test!
Grant that our bats may trounce and flail
This lion from its head to tail.
0 Lord, Our help in ages past,
Mend us a bowler straight and fast.
A men.
D. McM.
THE DESOLATE HOUR.
Ah, fatal chimes! They fill the vesper air,
And laughter perishes before despair.
They steal on joy, like some soft-padded thief,
And in her place enthrones abysmal grief.
And now a cry resounds as in a tomb,
And steeps the bravest, gayest souls in gloom.
The words enshroud the dying day with woe:
“Come, gents, it’s six o’clock; you’ve got to
go!"
D. McM.
THE JADE STILETTO.
(A Breathless Mystery Staccato.)
I.
Aloysius Boffin, a prominent Rotarian and
member of the Mustard Club, was found
dead in his office in Collins-street at 3.30
on Tuesday. His safe had been opened
with 161 b. of dynamite, and his celebrated
Green Jade Stiletto taken.... At 3.45
Yvonne Tracey, Boffin’s beautiful and con-
fidential secretary, was seated in the office
of Super-detective Gregory Marchpane lodg-
ing a complaint. Marchpane was playing
patience, and continued his game as Yvonne
told her story. He always did in such
circumstances. Suddenly he raised head and
voice and barked orders into a telephone. He
was always barking into telephones. Then
he turned to the shuddering girl. “Excuse
me,” he said with old-world courtesy, and
withdrew. In five minutes he emerged dis-
guised as a Ballarat plumber. “Now,” said
he, briskly, “let us give Boffin’s remains the
once-over.”
11.
Shouldering his way through the cordon
of police, and closely followed by Yvonne,
Marclipape entered Boffin’s’office. He picked
up three cigarette-butts from an ash-tray
and put them tidily in a w.p.b. Then he
looked at the dead man. With a smothered
exclamation he pointed to a tiny purple
puncture in the deceased plutocrat’s neck.
“The Pink Spider of Java,” he muttered.
Then to Yvonne, “Beware of a m Yvonne*
a Gold Tooth.” “Why?” breathed Y von
“You saw those cigarette-ends? -jney
Siamese. Only one man in
smokes Siamese cigarettes. Tuttle » > n
must be brave. Beppo Spaghetti is • • •
of the worst gang in the Melbourne
world. A veritable Brass-hat of rl ™, •' '
Marchpane dropped his voice to a L '
“One Lung!” gasped Yvonne, every ve*ti»e
of color drained from her face. Maichpane
nodded gravely.
Yvonne was walking in _ the Alexandra
Gardens. The irises were iu bloom. Ac
noise of the city was muted to a dista
murmur. Absorbed in the flowers she was
suddenly aware of the pressure ot a fianti-
kerchief on her face and the smell ot chloro-
form. Simultaneously a razor was pressed
against her throat, and a revolver pushed
into the small of her back. She turned, her
senses reeling, to see an evil, smiling race,
and the gleam of a Gold Tooth. Beppo
laughed evilly, twirled a Stiletto high m the
air, and threw away the butt of a Siamese
cigarette.
IV. , - , .
When Yvonne awoke it was to And her-
self in a large room. It reeked with incense.
The customary bronze Buddha stood against
the wall, the usual suave Oriental stood
regarding her with velvet, inscrutable eyes.
He wore the gold-embroidered slippers ant.
a flowered dressing-gown so fashionable
amongst sinister Chinese. In liis belt (an .
horror) was the Green Jade Stiletto. With
a rush, realisation came to the girl, and she
fainted. Even as she did so, she seemed
to hear a strangled, bestial cry.... When,
at last, she struggled back to consciousness,
it was to see Marchpane bending over her.
“I found the cigarette-butt in Alexandra
Gardens,” he explained. “What happened?’
asked Yvonne, faintly. “I got in here dis-
guised as a lamp-shade, found one of One
Lung’s Java spiders, and put it on his own
neck.” “I thought I heard a cry,” said
Yvonne, wonderingly. “A howl,” corrected
Marchpane. “I opened a trap-door,” he
continued, “which leads to a greased slide
that runs into the Yarra. By this time One
Lung and the Jade Stiletto should be some-
where off the Rip, if the tide is strong
enough.” “But —the Jade Stiletto?” “My
dear,” said Marchpane, “it has caused sorrow.
Boffin is dead and all Rotary mourns. Beppo
will hang. The underworld is littered with
corpses of Chinese in dressing-gowns. Let
us forget the Stiletto.” Yvonne nodded.
“Yes,” she said, “it is better 50.... Besides,
WHO SAID TWO HEADS ARE BETTER
THAN ONE?
Buckley and Nunn’s have a window full of
jade stilettos. '
“Yvonne,” said Marchpane tenderly, “let
us talk of other things.... Will you make
me the happiest man in Melbourne?” “Yes,”
breathed Yvonne.
V.
“ ’Er-a-a-a-ld ! Moonce Valley Races!”
Marchpane bought the paper, flung the
boy a florin which he had just confiscated
from a den of coiners, and told him to keep
the change. His heart sang.
A solitary star gemmed the velvet dusk.
Yvonne, he knew, had just put the chops
on the griller.
WAWHERESH.


/k
m
1
f/'/> "// -//, ////,
iVfIHUj
■
#
%
i
I
I
- : 1
%
J 7.
1
mns
Hi
\\
0
HE distinction of the MILLS Hat
will win your approval on sight.
The name MILLS rises supreme
in the realm of fashion. It is a
guarantee of quality, of perfect style, ex-
quisite craftsmanship, and, above all, of
durability. Through all weathers, in every
season, the MILLS retains its shape and
smartness.
Ml
Jhie flat that suits Ljourhersonahitu
Obtainable at all the
leading Men’s Stores
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY. LTD-


•for a good
I nights rest
%y lake
df
it will ensure
a good day s
work
In 4 size*
of all Chemists
and Stores
19.
4%
FOR YOUR SAVINGS.
There are two good methods of using the Savings Account as a provision
against the future.
To provide as far as possible for the unexpected expense; to save as much
and as often as you can —the ordinary Savings Account provides a convenient
businesslike method and a return of 4 per cent, interest.
For the expected expense, use the COMMONWEALTH SAVINGS PURPOSE
ACCOUNT. You know the amount you need and the time when you will
need it. The Purpose Account will help you to accomplish your purpose.
Information from any Branch of the
(Commonwealth Savings JBank of Australia
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
V::
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
BRACKEN
BERNARD CRONIN
Illustrations Jjy Treason
“During these derangements he sat all day in the kitchen or
on the harrow verandah... .staring stonily before him.”
Synopsis : Orphaned on the day of
his birth, and taken by his mother's
sister, Ann Martin, to Musk Ridge, a
(Hppsland selection owned by Ann’s
husband. Hector, Jasper Leith by the
time he is 13 hates the farm as he
hates his uncle, who is a heavy drinker
and whose black temper scares and
subdues liis wife. Jasper slaves among
the cows, carts the milk to the fac-
tory, and cuts the bracken that
encroaches more and more over the
paddocks. One day at the factory he
fights Tod Harris, a loutish boy who
had forced his way into a queue ahead
of Lois Beaument, a girl neighbor of
Jasper’s. At a party at Lois’s home
Jasper feels revulsion over the way lie
is kissed by Tod’s sister Cora in the
children’s game “Boor Mary Is
A-Weeping,” and when his turn comes
calls out Lois. Lois’s grandmother, a
shrewish old woman, forecasts from
some of his remarks that Jasper will
be a money-maker later. At the party,
also, he meets Ronald Braid, a boy
who intends to become an artist, and
takes him out to spend a day at
Music Ridge.
THERE was, Ronald admitted to himself,
a great deal that was likeable in Hector
Martin. Jasper was poring over a book
that Mr. Hume had brought him;, almost
oblivious for the moment of his friend’s
presence. Ann Martin had gone into her
bedroom directly she finished serving the
tea. Ronald had gathered that her head
ached. He thought her much changed since
his last visit to Musk Ridge. Her humidly
bright eyes seemed more pi’ominent; her
face appeared flabbier, with unwholesome
blotches starting from the withered skin of
the cheeks; she shambled more when she
walked. Several times he had caught her
regarding him vacantly; and from him her
eyes had gone slowly to Jasper, as though
she might have been comparing his fresh,
neat appearance with Jasper’s poorly-clad,
rather grubby showing. Once a little frown
crossed her face, and the muscles of her
mouth slackened perceptibly, as she
observed her husband. Ronald was unable
to interpret her expression at all then.
He had, for the moment, nothing better
to do than study his uncle and Jasper’s
uncle as they talked. This was one of
Hector Martin’s too rare moments when he
was able—indeed, pitifully eager—4o catch,
as it were, at the shreds of his vanished
sobriety. He spoke in a voice vibrant with
nervous energy, wagging his pointed beard
from side to side, and now and then smooth-
ing the scanty hair of his head with a lean
and trembling hand. His thinness held a
quaint fascination for Ronald, as did also
his deep-set, glowing eyes and his habit of
speaking so quickly that often the words
overran themselves into a furiously hum-
ming nonsense. He would pause abruptly,
too, in an unexpected manner, and frown,
and seem at a sudden loss to continue the
thread of his thought. A scarecrow of a
man, Ronald thought; but extraordinarily
interesting. Grown lazy and shiftless in
body, but mentally quite active still.
Hume, with his contrasting plumpness, his
full-fleshed, good-humored face and his habit
of crossing and re-crossing his hands upon
his knees, listened gravely. Presently he
caught Ronald’s eye, and appealed: “Mr.
Martin has been taking me to task be-
cause I said that our bush was, upon the
whole, rather grey and featureless. What
do you think, Ronald?”
“There isn’t much color, Uncle. But
there’s plenty of outline and perspective,”
he ventured hesitatingly. He wasn’t quite
sure how this would be taken. It sounded
horribly as though he was quoting from a
newly-acquired art jargon. His cheeks be-
came pink. “What I mean is that the
gum-tree, for example, has got more —more
individuality than most other trees. You
can look at it from a score of angles, and
there’s anew sharpness each time. It’s the
difference between the eagle and the pea-
cock.”
Hume said encouragingly: “I say, Ron,
you’ve got it. Go on.”
“Oh, I don’t know,” Ronald stammered.
But he took heart at finding a really
serious attention. “I’m just learning to see
things that way, of course. I mean, there
are so many different sorts of beauty. Some
are on the surface, and some aren’t. And
those that aren’t make you think harder,
I suppose, because they were harder to come
at. Our scenery is too immense to contain
in the eye alone.”
Hector Martin said stridently: “Hume,
that boy knows. Yes, he does. I’ve always
seen things that way; but it’s no use talk-
ing of that now. When Pan came to Aus-
tralia he found he had to have an organ—
a pipe is useless here.”
“Your uncle seems better and cheerier,”
Hume suggested as they went down the
track afterwards. He looked at Jasper
hopefully. “He would be, of course. It’s
true, isn’t it, that a little money was left
to your aunt? I was so glad to hear that.
She has such a load to carry on that poor
leg of hers.”
“We paid it nearly all away against the
mortgage,” Jasper said abruptly. “Aunt
said we had to have a home. It wasn’t
easy for her to do it.”
“How do you mean—easy?”
“Uncle was mad when she told him. He
said it was throwing good money after bad.
Aunt was right, though, Mr. Hume. He’d
only have drunk it up.”
Ronald kept an embarrassed silence. He
wondered how Jasper could speak so openly
of such a shameful thing. He was surprised
when his uncle merely said, sadly: “I’m
afraid you are right. The rotten thing
about it all is that a boy like you should
have to suffer such a truth. Don’t lose
heart, Jasper.”
“He’s hardly ever quite sober now,” Jasper
said stolidly. “If it wasn’t for aunt I’d
clear out. I don’t know how aunt stands it.”
Hume sighed. “Stick right by her, old
man,” he said, as they parted. “You’ll
never regret it.”
CHAPTER X.
Grasslands.
Two incidents occurred shortly after
Ronald’s return to the city which made a
profound impression upon Jasper. The
first was the death of Grandma Beaument,
which took place in the early autumn. Lois
discovered the old lady one afternoon sitting
bolt upright in the big chair, staring stonily
from the scarlet bird’s-nest of her shawl, her
shrivelled hands held stiffly before her as
though thrusting at the' Intruder. Within
a few weeks she would have been ninety.
A tremendous age. An age that somehow
frightened one to think of.
Jasper felt rebellious. Death had so far
failed to touch his sensibilities. It was
something abstract; something vague but
irrevocable which came to other people,
but which could have no immediate busi-
ness either with oneself or with those one
knew with any intimacy. Grandma Beau-
ment had despoiled this, theory. Jasper
felt almost as if he had been betrayed by
the old lady. He carried the news home
to his aunt with a certain resentment.
“Lois’s grandmother died
this afternoon, Aunt. Her eyes
were wide open, Albert says.
She didn’t even tell them she
felt sick, or anything.”
“She’d be too old to know,
Jaspie, I expect,” Ann Martin
said. “It’s a happy release for
them all. Old people are very
difficult sometimes. There’s
worse things than dying, after
all.”
Jasper tried to think what
these things might be as he
lay in bed that night. But he
could not decide the point
very satisfactorily. He sup-
posed his aunt was thinking of
their being so very poor when
she had said that. But it must
be queer to be dead, he told
himself; queer to be right away
from everybody you knew and
all the things you liked. Liked
—and hated, also, of course.
Away from the milking yard,
and the bracken-fern, and chil-
blains and toothache, and .the
getting up at four every morn-
ing when you were so tired
that even your blood ached.
But especially away from the
ferns and the cows. Although
you didn’t always have to die
to get away from things like
that. If you were lucky enough
and determined enough, you just fought
yourself free of what you hated. You went
out after money, and wouldn’t let anything
stop you—anything at all, so long as the
law was on your side—until you got it.
Money made a difference even in your
dying. Look how comfortable it had made
Grandma Beaument’s dying! She hadn’t
wanted for a thing that she could have
wanted. Money had done that—money.
He was thinking of money when he fell
asleep.
The second incident had to do with Miss
Sprott and Albert Beaument. Jasper wasn’t
particularly interested in the lovemaking of
his elders, but the mere fact that old Amos
Beaument had set up a barrier against the
wishes of these two was sufficient to enlist
his unusual concern. He couldn’t see, how-
ever, why either should be so set upon living
always with the other. Miss Sprott wasn’t
pretty, and he didn’t suppose she would be
any good for farmwork. And Albert was
just a slow, good-natured old grub-along,
who never had a word to say for himself,
and let everybody put on him. Jasper
supposed there must be something about
them that was only apparent to themselves.
Or, perhaps, they just wanted to get married.
Jasper was innocently frank with him-
self about these things. A farmyard nursery
is conceivably not the best atmosphere in
which to preserve the refinements of illu-
sion. He thought he understood perfectly
something he had once read in a book, taken
from the odd volumes on the shelf in his
aunt’s bedroom, to the effect that too often
marriage was just an attempt to escape sex.
He had one day occasion, after school
hours, to return to the playground to search
for a treasured pocket-knife. Going in at
the gate he met Albert Beaument striding
unhappily from the schoolhouse. The
young man's square, homely face was a
peony pink, and he was dull-eyed and gap-
ing, like a freshly caught fish. He passed
Jasper without any greeting at all; seem-
ing, indeed, unaware of the boy’s presence.
Jasper stared dumbly. He thought very
likely Albert must be ill. Certainly he
looked quite unusually put out about some-
thing or other. Jasper was still wondering
when his name was called—called beauti-
fully. That was one thing Miss Sprott
always managed to retain, no matter what
her stress—her lovely, bell-like tones. She
(Continued on page 49.)


folf
sildoSL
a
®%
7
i ,
1
mmwfc ■
HATEVER may be your holi-
day mood ... fishing; game:
hunting; alpine climbing;!
sight seeing ... you will be enthralled
by a change amid New Zealand’s be-
witching surroundings, a memorable
holiday at unexpectedly low cost.
Let us send you free literature and
details of fares. Use the coupon!
...
- "
esS
NEW ZEALAND
GOV’T OFFICES
London Bank Chambers.
20 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
59 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
a
\
i
“Sanatogen has a
direct favourable
influence on the
whole nervous
system,”—
wrote Prof. Rodari,
of Zurich Univcr*
sity.
Buoyant Health
—with Sanatogen
NERVE- STRENGTH and buoyant
health, that’s what Sanatogen will
give you.
Sleeplessness, listlessness, loss of appetite —
all those signs of weakness will very soon
disappear , in fact , within a fortnight you
will notice a remarkable change for the
better in your health.
s
q?
TART taking Sanatogen to-day. It is
sold at all Chemists from 3/9 per tin.
sanatogen
The True Tonic-Food
w. GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBORO’, ENGLAND.
SUNSHINE
CULTIVATING
AND SEEDING
MACHINERY
M \wfc'VM Pa
THE “SUNDERCUT” STUMP JUMP
DISC CULTIVATING PLOUGH
10-disc , cuts 5 feet.
If
14-disc cuts 7 feet.
Unequalled for cultivating hard set fallow,
or fallow covered by heavy weed growth,
paddy-melon, stinkwort, thistles, etc.
Does splendid work in virgin Mallee soils.
Levers fitted for team or tractor pull.
m
818
.m,
THE “SUNTYNE” COMBINED GRAIN
AND FERTILIZER DRILL AND
SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR,
17 tyne, sows 8 rows, covering 5 ft.
25 tyne, sows 12 rows, covering ft.
29 tyne, sows 14 rows, covering B^ft.
33 tyne, sows 16 rows, covering 9+ft.
41 tyne, sows 20 rows, covering 12 ft.
49 tyne, sows 24 rows, covering 14ft.
Cultivates and sows to any desired depth.
Forms a compact seed bed with thoroughly
pulverised mulch. Tractor Hitch and
Lever can be fitted when ordered.
Write for descriptive literature, prices
and particulars of extended terms.
H. V. McKAY PTY..LTD
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
Branches and Agencies:
664 BOURKE STREET WEST, MELBOURNE.
95-97 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
Corner MURRAY AND KING STREETS, PERTH.
H. V. McKAY (QUEENSLAND), LTD., STANLEY STREET, SOUTH
BRISBANE.


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,369,965
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Ghairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. H. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 1 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,525
GRANTS DRAFTS on Australia > New
DAHr lO Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — . think of
\*y
SCHUTE,
BELL&Gua.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SAFE with GUYATT’SI
imms
The improved Guyatt
Elastic Truss is the latest
and most efficient Elastic
Truss on the market to-day.
It has been altered and
improved in several import-
ant points of construction,
until its strength, efficiency
and durability have been greatly increased. A careful
examination of this Truss will prove every claim
made for its advantage over others.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
GUY ATT & CO.,
Expert Makers of Surgical Appliances,
Dept. 8., 257 a George St., Sydney.
Opposite Bridge Street.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
®{je
df
Agister
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
in
THE REGISTER,
which is read by all classes,
Proprietors:
W. K. THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
ERIC N. BIRKS, N.S.W. Representative.
Telephone X&187.
G. N. BEDNALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.
Shipping, etc.
OWHERE in the blue Pacific is there such enchantment and
1 V . health as in the coral-circled islands note within your reach at
the cost of a city holiday. Palm-shaded lagoons and turquoise
sea, surf foaming on to a wide white beach, tropical beauty of flower and
fern and forest, quaint native villages, heights catching the ocean breeze
—these can be yours!
And with an ocean
holiday on giant
trans-Pacific Liners
At the Cost of a City Holiday
' RETURN EXCURSIONS
Honolulu
From Sydney: £75 first, £55 second.
Aorangi, Jan. 10. Niagara, Feb. 7.
Tahiti
From Sydney: £55 first, £4O second.
Tahiti, Jan. 24. Makura, Feb. 21.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George St., Sydney; 59 William St., Melb., C.l.
/,
ms
'sr*i'C t 7 fry
ww>W
•*Ws
u^Krw
M
i «04
P?
- \-
ortf:
' ■-.
r« ’■
Ki*;
RL
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by All Steamship Lines.
Choice of Any Route. Without Extra Charge.
From AUSTRALIA to
ENGLAND AMERICA JAPAN
FRANCE CANADA EGYPT
ITALY MEXICO INDIA
GERMANY AFRICA CHINA
Also attractive tours to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji, etc.
BUSINESS TRIPS. PLEASURE CRUISES.
AUSTRALIA TO
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly sailings maintained by the popu-
lar steamers “MARELLA” and “MALA-
BAR” from Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane, via Queensland Ports, Torres
Strait, Darwin, etc.
For Reservations and Information apply
■IC
LW.
m
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. And all Branch Offices.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1813.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .
RESERVE LIABILITY
ďfd
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; W. E. Southerden, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney.. London Office—29 Threadoeedle Street. E.C. 2.
536 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
dfd
n
follow
THIS
TO THE
SIGN
FOR PROFITS
LEIPZIG SPRING FAIR (GERMANY),
With GREAT ENGINEERING AND BUILDING FAIRS, Commencing March 3, 1929
Profitable to the Business Man on account of the payable agencies offering.
Profitable to the Pleasure Seeker, as the beauty of Springtime in Germany, and
the wonderment of the Fair is a sight worth seeing. Advice and Letters of Intro-
duction courteously given entirely free.
Authorised Representative: LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 6 Dailey Street, Sydney. ’Phones: 84006, MW2201.
COOL OFF IN TASMANIA
A FORTNIGHT’S HOLIDAY IN TASMANIA
Including Fares, Accommodation, Local Sight-Seeing, etc., from
£24/1/-
XMAS SAILINGS TO HOBART
T.S.S. ZEALANDIA (7000 tons), DECEMBER 19 and 24,
JANUARY 2 and 9.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
OCEAN HOUSE, 34 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Shipping,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings*
(Passenger Sailings— Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
Sydney Agents.
7 Bridge Street.
Mcllwraitb,
McEacharn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street.
Melbourne S.S. Co.
Ltd., Clarence
6 Barrack Sts.
Howard Smith Ltd.
58 Margaret St.
Mcllwraitb,
McEacharn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith Ltd.
58 Margaret St.
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ascanius. . .
JRunic
fEuripides . .
*Nestor
sCeramic . . .
fDemostbenes
*UlyBses....
’"First class
10,048 tons,
12.500 „
15,000 „
15,000 „
18.500 „
11.500 „
15,000 „
Jan. 7
Jan. 22
Feb. 5
Mar. 15.
March 26
April 16
May 13
only. fFirst and Third class.
j:“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
P. & 0. BRANCH SERVICE
ONE CLASS ONLY.
MONTHLY SERVICE.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown
To LONDON, via Colombo, Port Said
and Suez Canal
VIA SOUTH AFRICA. I
1929. |
BENDIGO Sails Jan. 18 I
BERRIMA „ Feb. 1
BORD „ March 201
VIA SUEZ CANAL.
1929.
BARRABOOL Sails Feb. 27
BENALLA „ April 1
Fares: To South Africa» £2l to £27
To London via Suez, £3B to £54
To London via Cape, £37 to £53
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd-,
Tel. 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/6/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/16/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerL
Magnlfloent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars appIyHUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals v Ith every subject of
interest to women.


The Finest Razor
that money can buy
A genuine KROPP Razor will give you quick, clean,
comfortable shaves for a life time. It is an all-British
Razor, hand-forged in Sheffield, England, by the World's
most expert craftsmen.
KROPP
never
requires
grinding
ALL - BRITISH
i* •*
From the usual Dealers. Black Ivory or Xylonite Handles.
Wholesale onIy:—OSBORNE, GARRETT & CO., LTD., London, England
m
m
beauty
and
Fidelity
THE rich, exclusive appearance of ELGIN
watches is but an indication of the internal
beauty of workmanship. The world’s finest
craftsmen are engaged upon the production of
these masters of time. ELGIN watches fulfil
their allotted task with a fidelity and exactness
that leave nothing to be desired.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
&lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
Jhi? < jrade Mark
df
in the Watch Care
102 A
CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID— 32 per cent. Na2o.
POWDEH.ED-98 per cent. NaOH.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
CARBON TETRA CHLORIDE.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
CONCENTRATED SOLDER-
ING AND TINNING FLUXES.
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
In 100, 150 and 20001 b. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE. VICTORIA.
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
One of the
most common
things that can
be encountered
among the
movies is the
picture that be-
gins on a mas-
sive and elabo-
rate scale, crowds into its first part or two a
world of movement and life, and then gradu-
ally tapers away and down until it ends
on a point so very narrowed and fine that
it scarcely exists. “The Freedom of the
Press” (Universal) is one of the many. Its
beginning is large and broad —a big news-
paper, an editor who places the principle
of truth above everything, and, the target
of these, civic corruption on a big and dan-
gerous scale. The story broadens with the
implication of the editor’s old friend as the
ringleader of the corrupt, plus the love of
the editor’s son for the ward of that old
friend. Then the editor is murdered, and
the story begins to taper off. The son, with
about one week’s newspaper experience, takes
command, flattens the enemy, and, the story
continuing its decline and fall, is given the
ward just, before her guardian completes the
debacle per revolver. However, apart from
an improbability or two, the newspaper (and
chief) side of the picture is faithful, and the
massed acting in the office is excellent. Lewis
Stone is the amazing young man; Marcelline
Day a most unconvincing lover.
“Me, Gangster” (Fox), is a typical example
of the movie palpably put forward as U.S.A.
police propaganda, and with little other
excuse for its existence. Not content with
letting the picture tell its own moral —That
sin finds inevitable punishment and virtue
is very materially rewarded —almost every
sub-title is used to state directly that a
JUNE COLLYER,
of “Me, Gangster.”
crooked life
must lead to
dire results.
Tracts, of:
course, are all
right in their
way, and there
is preaching of
a kind in
almost all
artistic ex-
pression, but
the one strikes
directly, whilst
the other
leaves the
moral to he
drawn out by
the observer.
And being
preached a t
directly, parti-
cularly when
one feels no
criminal incli-
nations, ca n
be dreadfully
boring. “Me,
Gangster,” is not at all a bad crime picture,
telling the story of a young man who,
reared in a vicious environment, passed
through a vicious criminal career and a term
of gaol, and eventually passed back the roll
of notes for the theft of which he had been
put in the cooler. There are, of course, a girl
who loves him faithfully throughout, and a
broken-hearted mother. There is also a
father who rose from stevedoring to a posi-
tion of something like eminence through
civic corruption, and dropped back to steve-
doring and found happiness there. It could
well have been allowed to preach its moral
unaided by the sub-titles, and without that
unpropitious aid would have been a passable
entertainment. June Collyer is the faithful
girl; Don Terry, the chap who doesn’t
deserve her.
Whether the Germans, by their delving
into scientific strata, are giving the simple
idiots who write most of the movie scenarios
a new weapon or merely something with
which they will cut their clumsy thumbs is
a moot question; still, the psycho-analytical
“Secrets of the Soul” (UFA) is at least
a change. A well-nourished, loving but child-
less husband learns that his wife’s cousin,
a handsome young Sumatran planter, is
coming home. - Forthwith he becomes the
prey of murderous obsessions, whose out-
ward manifestation is a total inability to
pick up a knife, even the article used for
carving the household duck. Then he has a
dream. He is a bird, at which wifey’s rela-
tive takes potshots from a palm-tree; and
he falls on to a railway line, and express
trains thunder down on him and become
lovely women, all resembling his wife; and
the women turn into bells ringing in a belfry,
and he climbs painfully up endlessly unfold-
ing stairs, only to find a mocking jazz band
at the top; and the jazz band tui;ns into a
palpitating lake, out of which wife and
cousin mutually fish a child. Some people
would say that what was needed here was a
matutinal dose of salts, but the UFA
people send the hero to a psycho-analyst,
who uncannily unfolds the subconscious
basis of it ail. It is just plain, garden
jealousy, and unfounded at that. (One won-
ders, if it were well founded, what the Freu-
dian philosopher would advise.) However,
once the hero understands the nature of his
complaint he loses his fear of handling
knives and confesses to his spouse. The sup-
posed rival goes back to Sumatra, to be
anorised some years later that the happy
couple, freed of their inhibitions, are the
parents of a bouncing boy. It is all very
amusing, if a trifle humorless and naive;
and the dream pictures are amongst the
cleverest bits of film illusion this column
has seen.
“The Mating Call” (Paramount), from
the Rex Beach novel of that name, unfolds
the _ troubled domestic affairs of a Tank
soldier. For a pleasant change, it begins
after the war. when the young man who had
married in haste just before he left returns
to find that the narents of the girl had had
the marriage annulled during Ms absence and
that she had taken another spouse. Taking
to hjs farm _ again, the returned man
is. visited by his ex-wife, who tries to vamp
him, but is scorned. Hell hath no fury like
a woman scorned; she returns to the assault,
and is getting him into hot water with a
secret gang modelled on Ku Klux lines when
he fixes her little game by going to Ellis
Island and marrying a Russian immigrant. In
time they learn to love each other, but not
before tiie man has been implicated in a
murder and cleared his name. The players
are Thomas Meighan, Evelyn Brent and
Renee Adoree. The ladies are quite good.
The Palette
A few bright things met here and there on
the long and cluttered walls stick in the
memory after an examination of the Society
of Women Painters’ exhibition at their Syd- j
ney gallery, but even an inherent chivalry
will not restrain the remark that quantity i
was more obvious than quality. Two re-
freshing patches of flowers growing by sunlit
walls —one a water-color by Mabel Barling,
the oilier an oil by Ethel A. Stephens—a
careful etching or two by Helen Farmer and
the water-colors of A. M. Parsons and A.
Hedley Parsons were of the outstanding few.
John Hennessy’s paintings, pastels and
drawings at Melbourne Athenaeum might
easily have been overlooked in the Christmas
rush. So versatile is Ilennessy that his show I
looks like the annual exhibition of the Vic.
Artists’ Society, including those pictures that
are not worth their place. Yet dotted about,
like real beauties in a made-up chorus, are
some little landscapes of undeniable _ skill
and charm. The artist is not self-critical,
or he would not hang the picture of a girl
who looks as if she had been troddcp on by
a concrete-mixer in the same show as the
pleasant “Anatomy School.”
The outstanding impression left after an
examination of the Christmas Gift Exhibi-
tion at the Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney, is
that it is perfectly named; most of the ex-
hibits anyone would be only too glad to give i
away. The Mick Paul etching of Lachlan j
Macquarie is interesting, though it’s a pity
he mounted it on an inscribed foundation-
stone. Raymond McGrath airs four neat
woodcuts and a precious smattering of erudi- j
tion; Bresslern-Roth has eight well-balanced
woodcuts in color, with fine animal drawing; j
and Sydney Ure Smith’s “Argyle Cut” is as j
charming as ever. The most arresting things, j
however, are the examples of batik by Frank
Weitzel. He follows the modernist tendency
in design, and exhibits an aesthetically-satis-
fying sense of color. “Fronds” is a bril-
liant splash.
The show of the Australian Painter-
Etchers’ Society* (New Gallery, Melbourne)
does not call for extended comment, the work
being much like the work of several pre-
vious years. Etching is really stenographic
art and a shorthand report of a landscape
should not be labored and long-winded, but
curt, incisive and straight to the point.
Some of the society’s members waste their
time trying to make their etchings look like
monochrome reproductions of oil paintings
when they might just as well have handled
the subject in colors at the start. Mrs. J. C.
A. Traill’s Central Australian studies are
interesting, and J. C. Goodhart’s panel shows
advance.
The Inky Way
“P.X.”: The last big meeting of Aus-
tralian editors was held in Melbourne in
1917, when the Federal Government wanted
to know what was wrong with the censor-
ship. There have been such changes in the j
offices of the dailies since that only three j
of the men who were at that conference are
in the chairs they filled then. Schuler, of the
Age ; Knight, of the Courier ; Langler, of the
-West Australian ; Heney, of the S. M. i
Herald ; and Jeffery, of the Evening News,
are dead. Braham, of Sydney D. T., crossed
to the West Australian ; Sowden, of the
Register, and Ward, of Brisbane Tele-
graph, threw in their pens soon after the
conference; Cunningham has just retired
from the Argus ; Davidson left the Mel-
bourne Herald to take hold of a string of
papers, with head-
quarters in Adel-
aide ; and absorp-
tion accounted for
the disappearance
of Love kin, of
Perth. Among
State-capital
dailies the only
men still at the
head who were
there in 1917 seem
to be Langdon
Bonython (Adver-
tiser) , Campbell
Jones (Sun), and
Simmonds ( Mer-
cury) ; and of the
weeklies repre-
sented only one has
the same legs
under its
chair it had in thfc
last year of the
war.
THOROLD WATERS, one of Melbourne’s
leading musical critics and chief prop
of the AUSTRALIAN NEWA.
“Lao-dah”: Novelist Gilbert Frankau may
claim to have been the world’s best paid
editor. As a result of a row between him
and the publishers of the Britannia he
retires after a few weeks’ work with a con-
solation prize of £12,000.


Not Cl
but the
ipi
Ohpyslcp Public
BROADLY speaking, the measure of any
I man’s success is the size of the public
behind him.
He grows as his public grows—as his acts
are approved in increasing volume by an
increasing public.
These few words tell almost all there is to
the Chrysler story —or give, at any rate, the
root-reason why Chrysler looms large on
the motor car horizon. Chrysler is present-
ing at this moment a group of cars sparkling
and shining with newness of performance
and appearance —cars which have again
captivated their public.
These brilliant new Chrysler cars have been
in process of creation for two years—they
will exert their influence upon the design of
all other motor cars for several years to come.
Chrysler has never halted or
hesitated, because Chrysler is free
and has no obligations to anyone
d
but its own public—no limit except the
limit of its own creative powers, its own
energy and enthusiasm, its own faith in the
boundless resources of the nation,
Chrysler quite frankly confesses its inten-
tion to try to surpass other cars and other
manufacturers—quite frankly admits an en-
thusiastic ambition for continued leadership
in value giving—quite frankly intends to
leave nothing undone to earn and deserve
and hold the greatest motor car public in
all the world*
This, it seems to the Chrysler management*
is the urgent need of every manufacturing
institution which aspires to satisfy a swift-
moving public—to realise that it does move,
that yesterday is dead, that laurels wither,
that today is gloriously alive, that
tomorrow calls clamourously for
greater and greater endeavour*
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney <
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z. : Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.


0
Q
[m)STCWJ§
Ensure efficient running by fitting B.E.S.
SPARK PLUGS. A type for every car, truck,
tractor, cycle, aeroplane and marine engine.
Fully guaranteed. All garages. Price 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne, C.l.
’Phones: F 4947, F 5961.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST_ BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney.
[2
World's Pigeon Championship.
Melbourne Gun Club, July 6, 1928.
Ist. W. BAULDERSTONE (S.A.).
3rd. “CALROSSIE” (Vic.).
Both used
W. W. GREENER
GUNS.
There is no better
Shooting Gun made.
Procurable from all GUN DEALERS.
Catalogues on Application.
Wholesale Representatives;
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY, LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE, C.l.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Once mbre a warm favorite has failed.his
backers iii the A.J.C. Yilliers Stakes. On
form and track work Karuma did not look a
7-to-4 chance for the mile race at Randwick
on Saturday, but McShortodds would lay no
better. Magpie’s son was beaten into third
place behind Reonui (8 to 1) and Habashon
(same price). Thelma’s Fortune made the
pace so warm that they ran the first four
furlongs in 48sec. and a fraction, but she
knocked herself out as welj as others. Haba-
shon looked likely to win as the field turned
into the straight, but Reonui, beautifully
handled by Pike, cut him down; Karuma
was doing well at the finish, but not well
enough. Reonui is trained by Price for “J.
Babin,” one of the few men who can say he
bought a Maoriland-bred horse with exposed
form cheap.
Runnymede spoilt many Villiers-and-Sum-
mer-Cup doubles by breaking down after his
race at P^osehill; he was Trautwein’s hope
for the Cup, as was Aorangi for the Yilliers.
Owners of 13 nags rendered themselves liable
for acceptance money, and the 13—if they all
start—will be rather above the average of
Summer Cup fields, with Bacchus (9st. 61b.)
at the top of the list. Holdfast looks a good
thing for the December Stakes, but there are
no certainties in racing. Fancies for the
second day:—
Chisholm Handicap: Whitta; next, Haba-
shon.
December Stakes: Holdfast.
Summer Cup : Speechmaker, 1; Octembor,
2 : Fondant, 3.
Christmas Handicap: Lord Romeo; next,
The Grindstone.
A.J.C. Handicap: Honan; next, Genuine.
* * * *
Whitta was third in the Carrington Stakes
last year to Genuine and Lcsboo (a good
horse that did not train on), and on the
second day of Tatt.’s meeting she won a
six-furlong handicap, running away from
Killarney, whose subsequent form yvas capi-
tal, in lmin. lOisec. Her work on the
track suggests that she is just as speedy as
she was then, if not more so, and she has a
nice weight (Bst. 21b.). Remora (7st. 101 b.)
or one of the prominent runners in the Vil-
liers Stakes may be her most dangerous
opponent. This Page places them Whitta , 1;
Remora, 2; Karuma, 3.
Tatt.’s Cup looks open. Honan (Bst. 31b-)
seems to have been prepared for this race,
which he was popularly expected to win last
year until a late mishap caused his with-
drawal ; honest Tibbie won, and she is in
again with Bst. 101 b. Leadight (7st. 51b.)
is a strong-finishing young horse that ought
to run a good mile and a half, and he may
be destined to do what that other son of
Sir Dighton, Royal Dighton, did in 1925.
Leadight is given for a first choice, with
Honan and Vallino (7st. 101 b.) next in
that order.
* * * *
A select committee of the Vic. Leg. Coun-
cil, hitherto regarded as a stronghold of
wowserism, has surprised McPherson’s State
by reporting in favor of the totalise tor. It
recommends also that horse- and pony-racing
be placed under the control of the V.R.C.;
that pony-racing be curtailed ; that the police
be empowered to remove “urgers” and other
undesirables from racecources (strange
as it seems, they don’t possess that power),
and that “all profits from racing, after the
provision of a reasonable reserve fund, should
be devoted to improvement of racecourses,
increase of stake-money, better and cheaper
facilities for breeders” —“subsidised blood-
stallions” are suggested—“and to charit-
able purposes”; and they are common-
sense recommendations. Above all, the
committee affirms that proprietary clubs
run for private gain are not in the
best interests of racing, and that they
should cease to exist.” Its idea is that these
parasitic growths should be given three years
to convert themselves into genuine clubs or
have their licenses cancelled. The House has
adopted the report, and McPherson and
Argyle will be remembered for at least some
useful reforms if they act upon it.
* >:= * *
The withdrawal of William Duncan’s
license by the V.R.C. has its reminiscent
aspects. The charge against the leading
Victorian jockey, who rode Maple in the
Melbourne Cup, is that he approached the
people who had drawn the mare in one of the
big sweeps asking for a cut if he won. It
was established to the satisfaction .of the
authorities that an agreement was arrived at,
the amount asked being reduced; the mare,
of course, did not run into a place. This
sort of thing was rampant in other years,
when the result of the draw was allowed to
become public long before the race. It was
especially notable in connection with sweeps
on handicaps of minor importance, the form
of blackmail adonted being a threat to scratch
the nag—a threat that was made good in
more than one notorious instance. What with
the vogue of sweeps drawn on the day of
the race and the good influence of owners
and trainers who make it a practice to refuse
“offers,” the situation has improved greatly
of late years. The action of the V .R.C. is
belated but none the less commendable. It
ought to be universally followed.
THEN HE COULD TALK.
THE BOSS: “No good kiddin’ ter me, Billy; I’ve bowled yer out too often.”
KING BILLY : “Smart fellah you, mine t’inkit. Suppose you go longa Test match bowl
out Missa Hammon’.”
“Roodee” : It seems about time that the
multitude of Australian “Derbies” were
called by some other name, and the classic
title bestowed on a single Australian race
open to the three-year-olds of every State.
Six Derby winners are let loose on Australia
every year, Papua, Canberra and the N..T.
having as yet failed to place the classic
event on their racebooks. Of the six, only
the A.J.C. and V.R.C. affairs are seriously
considered by racing men or breeders as some
test of a youngster’s quality, and even these
might be merged in one Federal race. Such
an event could be run for in the various
States in succession, just as the King s Cup
is at present. The merging of the State
Derbies would permit a considerable increase
in the added money, and this would justify
the owner of a promising candidate in cart-
ing his prad across the continent for the race.
The same question of expense would elimi-
nate most of the runts that are often given
a flutter in the State Derbies —and sometimes
win them. These could be provided for in
special three-year-old events.
* * * *
Stirred to action by the report that E. M.
Pearce, owner of Mollison, was contemplat-
ing the purchase of High Syce, Mrs. Buxton
telegraphed an offer to the owners which
was accepted. The Melbourne lady paid 700
guineas for Highland, and the event proved
that he was a very cheap horse; she had to
go to 4000 guineas for High Syce, but
Queensland aVers that he is worth every
penny of it. Holt, who has been remark-
ably successful with horses from other States,
particularly Westralia, will train the Banana-
land champion.
* if * *
“Thormanby”: Aintree, the famous Grand
National coui'se near Liverpool, has had a
narrow squeak from being blotted out and
converted into building allotments. J-h e
Sefton Rural District Council, within whose
jurisdiction the famous course lies, had it
marked down for this'. The ground landlord
Lord Sefton, took a hand, and an agreement
was arrived at to preserve the course &s it
is for 50 years to come. After that it is
still to remain an open space, ‘‘to be utilised
for purposes of sport.”
The Ins and Outs
“W. G. Snort”: In refusing repeated re-
quests for proper seating accommodation on
the “hill” the Sydney Cricket Ground trustees
show a thick-witted spirit of conservatism
that almost entitles them to rank with the
Australian selectors. The steep grassy slope is
an anachronism on any ground professing to
be modern, and when it is crowded the dis-
comfort' is beyond all imagining, while it
gives hoodlums full play for their specialties.
There are a few lines of plain backless
benches along the fence of the playing area.
The cost of extending these to the top of the
slope would not be excessive, and the rows
could be carried up to the top of the enclos-
ing fence. This would considerably increase
the accommodation.
* * * *
“Spare Sub”: An unpleasant feature of
the English cricketers’ tour has been the
repeated attempts of the less reputable sec-
tion of the press to stir up ill feeling against
the visitors, and even among them. That
hardy annual, the alleged snobbishness ot
the amateurs towards the professionals of
the team, was resurrected. Because he fol-
lowed the correct procedure and sent his
side in to bat again in Brisbane, after Aus-
tralia’s poor showing in the first innings,
Chapman was accused of a lack of sports-
manship, and worse'. The Jvippax incident
in the Sydney Test was distorted beyond
recognition, appearing in a new guise every
morning and evening, though the irrefutable
fact that he was bowled and justly given out
remained. Here again, every chance was
taken to allege bad sportsmanship on the
part of the visitors individually and collec-
tively. Small wonder that the considerable
section of cricket followers who are accus-
tomed to batten on this sort of stuff reflect
its flavor in their vocal criticisms.
* if * if
“Lansdowne”: Sydney Morning Herald,
moaning over its countrymen’s inability to
prevent the English tail-enders from making
runs on Tuesday last, describes Duckworth
and White as “notoriously weak batsmen
who have not given even the critics of county
cricket in England the permission, to regard
them as either prolific scorers or staunch
defenders.” As a matter of fact, White’s
batting has so markedly improved these last
few seasons that he has become one of the
most reliable scorers in the county team
which he captains. During the 1927 season
.—the “Wisden” containing this year’s figures
is not yet to hand —he made 831 runs for
Somerset in 35 innings, and his average of
23 placed him fifth on the list of batsmen.
Duckworth’s average for Lancashire was
only 18 for 29 innings, but it is interesting
to note that he had no less than 18 not-outs
to his credit. Even when a man goes. in
last, or last but one, the fact that he remains
unconquered in almost two innings out ot
three is surely some evidence of “stauncli
defence.”
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Ponsford was playing his
lOOtli innings in first-class cricket when Har-
wood retired him with a damaged hand in
Sydney. Counting his failure in the present
Test series, he lias averaged 78.36. _ In Aus-
tralia his figures have been 92.43, in Maori-
land 43.0, and in England 40.9. He has had
9 not-out innings to help him, including the
Test knock referred to, “retired hurt” being
taken as not out under Marylebone rules,
though a local rule in Victoria rates it as out.
# * * *
“Pourri-pourri”: Though the Englishmen
have had their share of casualties, it must
be said they have not been so hard hit in
this respect as their opponents. The loss
of Gregory and Ponsford was a serious set-
back, and has been followed by the news
that fast-bowler Jaek Scott, the only speed
merchant worth serious consideration in the
country just now, cannot play again this
season. He would have been well worth a
trial in Melbourne, and, if judiciously nursed,
might have filled the gap left by Gregory.
It is tough luck for Scott, too. He has been
knocking at the Test-match door for years
but never quite got inside.
* ❖ $ *
“Old Q-”: Searching about for one last
brick to throw at Brisbane for its presump-
tion in acquiring one of the Ma State’s Test
matches, the Sydney press is quoting with
glee an item in the report of one Jones, who
managed the N.-S.W. side in Brisbane in
November. It is the opinion of this official,
and one which is cordially concurred in by the
journals aforesaid, that the Brisbane water
is antagonistic to the health of cricketers.
This being so, it is small wonder that our
batsmen failed to play Larwood and White
in the first Test. In future Southern teams
visiting Brisbane should follow the example
of eminent racehorses on tour abroad, and
take a supply of their special brand of water
with them. There would be no fear of the
local inhabitants attempting to drink it, even
in drought-time. 1
3|C $ $ $ -
“MacC.”: What a pity cricket has not
produced some enthusiast who could persuade
our American cousins to take up the game!
To the people who have made a man-sized
pastime out of our old schoolday friend
rounders the prospect of introducing improve-
ments should especially appeal. The pads
at present worn by batsman and wicket-
keeper are right enough as far as they go.
Under American 'rules cork breastplates,
steel visors and adequate gloves would be
the fashion for batsmen, wicketkeepers, slip
fields and others within a radius of, say, 100
yards of the wicket. Then consider other
aspects. If one may judge by the Olympic
Games, a team of 50 players, together with
managers, publicity agents, spellbinders,
photographers, trainers, masseurs, etc., could
not be considered overdoing it. The. Ashes,
of course, would be relegated to oblivion. In
their place we would have a million-dollar
gold bat presented bv Ponsford K. Woodfull.
As this article would probably spend most of
its time in America the gold reserve would
not be affected to any appreciable extent.
Old hands and the hillites might find the new
game a little hard to get used to ; but what do
thev matter, anyway?
* * * *
“Hamer”: In the old days when news-
paper scoring-boards were erected in Syd-
ney without official objection, Judge. Docker,
an enthusiast, was missing when his Court
had to resume the hearing of a case in-
terrupted by lunch. For some time
barristers, jury and officials waited im-
patiently. Then a search was made for
the absent Judge. He was found glued be-
fore the Daily Telegraph scoring-board in
King-street, which was just then recording,
four by four, a vigorous innings by Jessop.
Docker had forgotten all about, his judicial
duties, which, in any case, he did not allow
to interfere more than absolutely necessary
with his cricket. All sorts of opportunities
were made for an early adjournment of the
Court when a big match was being played.
* * * *
“Aunt Sally”: The return to Sydney the
other day of A. E. Johns recalls a curious
bit of cricket history. Johns, a Victorian,
was chosen as first ’keeper of the Australian
team for England in 1896, and Jack Harry,
another Cabbage Gardener, who was also a
batsman of considerable ability as well as
a regular bowler in Sheffield matches, was
chosen as second. In those days the team
was a private-enterprise affair, and for some
reason an agitation arose to have Jim Kelly,
then in N.S.W., substituted for Harry. This
was eventually done, Harry being compen-
sated. In England, Kelly slipped into the
position of first ’keeper for Australia, and
retained it for years.
(Continued on page 37.)
CONFESSIONAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
It’s many years since Inst I stood
With pads upon my shins
Wielding a hat of willow-wood
Before three slender pins.
I didn’t wield it. very well,
Being a little chap ;
I joined the club, the truth to tell,
Lured by a gorgeous cap.
The curate showed me how to stand;
The choir-master bowled.
A man of large and sinewy hand,.
A fast one he unrolled.
I raised my bat and sought to slam
That ball uncommon hard.
It struck me in the diaphragm.
The place that boxers guard.
And since that day the sight of bail,
Bat, ball or wickets three
Causes me inwardly to quail
And wish to climb a tree.
There have been many moments when
I mourned my secret shame;
But now, I ask my countrymen:
Ain’t it a rotten game?
N.S.W.
HYRAM.


All-British
fcVE y
AND
NOBE
CARTRIDGES
Your Shooting will be consistently good if you
always use the Scientifically-tested, Hard-hitting,
Long-range, Low-recoil ELEY AND KYNOCH
ALL-BRITISH CARTRIDGES.
They Kill where
others fail.
287
&
Ml
9
>-■ O
m
ißMlilß®
SMOKELESS
<£>*<£><S >
OJA MOMO
99.
fd
[JiWftrsonS)
For all Rinds of Pumps
MACSON Double-Acting
Piston Pumps
The “Macson” .oCers an ideal outfit
where pumping of almost any kind is
desired up to 1001 b. pressure or ele-
vation. A splendid pump for general
water supply.- All parts have been
made especially strong to ensure long
life and satisfactory service under all
conditions. Made in three sizes with
capacities of 840 gallons per hour to
2100 gallons per hour.
“Rotex” Lift and Force Pumps
Cn2
■ i 9
fast and loose pulleys. A power rotary
force pump, on iron frame, designed for the use
ot oil refiners, distillers, creameries, breweries,
wine-producers, varnish-makers, meat-packers,
etc.; in fact, wherever water or other liquid
must be rapidly elevated by power. This pump
will force water against a total head of 80
feet, which renders /it particularly useful for
discharging into an elevated tank; also as a
fire-pump, for use about factories, warehouses,
etc. We also make these in gunmetal for pump-
ing salt water, etc. Made in four sizes. Send
for particulars.
"Rapid Centrifugal Pumps”
Gland Nut remains
stationary when Bowl
is swivelled, thus per-
mitting effective oiling.
Bowls
on
“Rapid”
Pumps
can be
Swivelled.
dfgdf
A feature of our Centrifugal Pumps is
that the bowl swivels to any angle and
the suction-bend swivels independently
of the bowl, which reduces the cost of
the piping.
For pumping acids and chemicals we
manufacture pumps of suitable metal
to withstand the action.
“Rapid” Centrifugal Pumps- are manu-
factured at our own works, and include
many distinct improvements on other
makes. We carry a large range of these
pumps and have a size for every purpose.
Particulars on request.
“MYER’S”
Double-Acting
House Pump
PATENTED
COG GEAR
atlf
£ BRASS >
CYLINDER
«~C GLASS
SEAT
With Syphon Spout and Reversible
Handle.
Superior in design to any other make,
having a reservoir top and syphon
spout, which gives a continuous flow
of water. The reversible handle can
be placed at any angle, thus making
either a right or left hand, or a
straiglit-away pump, as desired. It
is double-acting, has heavy seamless
brass upper and lower cylinders. It
is compactly built and very powerful.
Cock Spout is useful for relieving the
pump of the weight of water in the pipe.
c
Proprietary • limited
Established 1860.
51-65 Bathurst Street SYDNEY
554-566 and 582-592 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
116-130 Waymouth Street- ------ ADELAIDE


?ls«
min
im
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O. Proprietor:
One Minute Railway Station. X. M. AHERN.
One Minute Wharves.
df
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Rifle that will help you
enjoy your holidays
ď
Winchester Model 53.
In 25/20, 32/20 and 44 Calibre.
Price, £7/12/6. Post free to all parts of Australia-
The Gun House,
COWLES & DUNN
Write for Catalogue “B.” 453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR SALE
“ Coonardoo ” Illustrations
The original drawings, by C. H. Percival, are
now for sale.
The Manager,
THE BULLETIN OFFICE, SYDNEY.
The National Mutual Life Association
of Australasia, Limited.
Established 1 869.
Extracts from the Fifty-ninth Annual Report.
20,728 new Policies issued assuring . . . .£9,807,845
New Annual Premiums 363,805
Income for Year 4,930,596
Payments to Policy-holders 2,075,058
Added to Assurance Fund 2,441,176
Assurance Fund at 30/9/*2B 29,147,329
EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR,
Bonus Certificates for the Year ended 30th September,
1928, will be issued on Ist March, 1929,
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
HON. SIR THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C.
SIR JOHN VICARS.
OSWALD ST. CLAIR, Manager.
OFFICES: 350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Ins and Outs
Though the Englishmen won the second
Test in Sydney by 8 wickets, confidence has
been restored by the fine showing of
some of our batsmen in the second
innings, when the side faced a deficit
of 383. The visitors had carried their score
to the record figure of 636, which contained
a magnificent forcing innings for 251 by
Hammond. It equalled any batting exhibi-
tion ever given on the famous ground, and
even the “Hill” was sorry when he failed to
reach R. E. Foster’s record Test score of
287 in 1903. Hammond was well supported
by Hendren (77), while the remainder of the
batting list pasted the tired bowling to its
heart’s content. The Australian attack was
anything but strong. Grimmett’s figures
were 2 for 191, while Blackie, with 4 for
148, showed the best ♦average. The fielding
was good, Richardson being outstanding.
Richardson went for a duck in Australia’s
second try, but the hick was evened when
Woodful] played a ball on to the stumps
without shifting the bails. A fine stand fol-
lowed the advent of Hendry, the bowling
being mastered. Woodfull was run out when
111, and Hendry went l.b.w. to Tate for
112. Kippax again failed, but Jack Ryder
proceeded to belt the bowling all over the
place, and was 77 n.o. at stumps. He only
added 2 next morning, when Chapman caught
him off Larwood, and though Nothling
ran to 44 the innings closed for 397. Tate
was the star bowler this time, collecting
4 for 99 (3 l.b.w. decisions). Geary and
Tate were disposed of before England made
the 16 runs necessary to win.
S’! * :|: *
Though beaten by 50 runs in their Shef-
field match with Victoria in Melbourne, the
Queenslanders died game. Their second
innings realised 456, thanks to fine batting
by O’Connor (160) , Thompson (115) and C.
McCoombe (61), the Warwick colt who got
his place in the side when Nothling. went
into the Test team. Interest centred in the
bowling of a’Beckett, who took 6 wickets
for 152 altogether. Ebeling followed up iiis
7 for 33 in Queensland’s first innings with
3 for 123.
:|! * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Even the Test team selec-
tors must be beginning to recognise the
need for several drastic alterations in the
side for the third match in Melbourne. Those
already out for one reason or another should
be kept out in order to give some new
material a trial, though an exception might
be made in the case of Andrews. Oxenham
should be one of the first bowlers selected,
W. R. HAMMOND, the young Gloucester-
shire professional, whose score of 251
in the second Test in Sydney is the
highest but one in these matches.
and a’Beckett is well worth experimenting
with. One expects the Australian side to
do much better in the coming games, but the
outlook will be absolutely hopeless if the
employment of venerable have-beens is per-
sisted in.
* *’c * *
“Taipo”: Maoriland cricketers made one
last desperate attempt last week to get the
Englishmen to invade the Shivery Isles. It
was hoped to bring six or seven of them oyer
after the fifth Test, and reinforce them with
Jupp and Fender, and the four or five Eng-
lish professionals coaching in M.L. this
season, the combined side playing a short
series against a Maoriland team. The scheme
could not be arranged, as the visitors’ schedule
demands their attendance in Westralia after
the game at Adelaide is done and over.
“Stand Off”: A curious cricket parallel
cropped up last week. While Dr. Otto Notli-
ling was doing his bit in the second Test in
Sydney medical-student Alec Ross was scor-
ing runs and taking wickets for Sydney Uni-
versity against the local foundation at Bris-
bane. Both rank amongst the finest Rugby
full-backs Australia has seen. Nothling did
yeoman service for N.S.W. for some years
against the All Blacks, as well as against
the formidable Springboks. Ross is, of
course, the famous Waratah custodian.
❖ i-c i'fi
“Reader”: “Percy Pawnticket’s” par. (B.
12/12/’2B) re the late Frank Iredale and
Lassetter’s conveys a wrong impression.
Frank was a nephew of the late Frederick
Lassetter, and the prizes offered and earned
were a matter that had nothing whatever
to do with Lassetter and Co., Ltd.
Racquet and Bawl
“Baseline”: The only Test match between
Australia and the touring English tennis
team will begin in Sydney on January 3.
The home side will be made up of N.S.W.
players only. Crawford, Cummings, Hop-
man and Ivalms are the selected four. Why
Willard, in view of his recent fine form, was
omitted is hard to understand. The leading
Victorians were said to be unavailable, but
that brilliant youngster Hassett might have
been given a chance, to say nothing of Turn-
bull, the South Australian, of whom the Eng-
lish players speak highly.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Shaken to its socks by the
loss of some hundreds of pounds on the tour
of the last Davis Cup team, the Australian
Tennis Association has shudderingly refused
to take the risk of dispatching a team for
the next tourney. It is argued that there
are no promising players in view outside
Crawford and Hopman, though young Has-
sett, of Victoria, may train on. Still more
important is the prospect of making up some
of the loss from the visits of the promised
American and French teams next year. After
that, with the coffers I'eplenished and fresh
talent, perhaps, discovered, a go at the Cup
in 1930 may be considered.
ijc * *
“Amateur Pro.”: In a plea for the main-
tenance (presumably out of the public purse)
of prominent tennis players to enable "a,
talented sportsman to utilise his great gifts,”
,T. O. Anderson naively releases the cat
from the bag. To quote his own words, as
published in a Sydney daily: “Concerning
the amateur rules in lawn tennis, we have
no one connected with the game in any capa-
city who is, strictly speaking, an amateur.”
Most people have long been aware of the
fact, but it is refreshing to get the dinkum
oil straight from the cat’s innards, so to
speak.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Barrier”: The conditions of that Bris-
bane cricket - ground - cum - racecourse (B.
19/12/’2B) are reversed at Broken Hill'.
There a cycle track occupies the middle of the
golf course, and when cycling is on contes-
tants, spectators and Rooks abandon their
immediate cares in the intervals of racing
and criticise the form of the golfers. Camp-
ing camels are occasional hazards, and at
present the grasshoppers, which are present
in millions, are seriously distracting the
faithful observers of the “Keep your eye
on the ball” axiom.
* 4c * *
“Old Q.”: A body to be styled the Queens-
land Golf Council is to take control of the
game in the State and will hold an annual
meeting in Brisbane in July of every year.
The general effect will be to consolidate the
many different golf organisations in Queens-
land. from the Far North Association of the
Gulf of Carpentaria to the Moreton and
South Coast Association, whose territory
marches with the N.S.W>. border.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The assistant-professionals’
golf tournament held in Melbourne the other
day provided some interesting play, and
served to call attention to a class of golfers
who don’t get as much limelight as they
deserve. Many of the players are in the
transition stage from caddie to professional,
and are employed in various capacities at the
different clubs. Like their elders, most of
them showed weakness on the greens. E.
Naismith, the winner, played a fine game
from the tee and through the green, but
dropped much of the advantage of his ex-
ceptionally good driving when it came to
putting. Even then he returned the good
card of 77. He was helper to Arthur le
Fevre at Sandringham, but has now gone to
the Yarra club under the wing of Arthur
Spence, late of N.S.W. and Queensland.
cjc * * *
“Brassey”: The bloated city of Sydney
can boast only one public golf course —that
at Moore Park. It is villainously over-
crowded, badly maintained, and is, at the
same time, turning in a substantial profit to
the City Commissioners. Now, with the -holi-
day season open, the latter have raised the
rate for a round from a bob to eighteen-
pence. The only excuse the Commissioners
can offer for this jump of DO p.c. in rates is
that a number of men have been put on to
recondition the course, this being by way of
Christmas relief work. No one will grudge
the out-of-works the money, but golfers using
the course are keen to know why the dickens
the city can’t pay for the work out of the
profit it has been dragging from the links, in-
stead of asking the people who have made
that profit possible to carry the extra baby.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: Nearly every golf club has
its own own special “local rule” relating to
removal of balls by crows and other ferce
naturce. There is the historical case of the
Rhodesian golfer who grounded his club in a
bunker to pick up his rifle and shoot an
investigating lion. Africa has also supplied
the latest instance, the hero being the Prince
of Wales, who is said to be rather down the
course as a golfer. Anyway, playing at
Jinja, in Uganda, where the course runs by
the side of the young Nile, he came up from
a drive to find his ball in the print of a
hippo’s foot, the print being anything from
6in. to Bin. deep and 12in, across. He is
reported to have made remarks appro-
priate to the occasion, but when he had
finished —no one is allowed to interrupt
royalty, even at golf—he was informed that
the local rule permitted lifting without
penalty where hippos were concerned.
“Hotham”: Yarra Yarra’s splendid new
course at Bentleigh, with its large and
elaborately-equipped clubhouse, is the latest
addition to Victorian golf links. Beginning
at Eaglemount, the club shifted to Rosanna
20 years ago, and the demand for improved
facilities has made the latest change neces-
sary.
* * * v
“The McHaggis”: The proper maintenance
of golf greens is an imperative duty amount-
ing almost to a religious observance with the
members of the cult. At the same time I can-
not find myself in agreement with the move-
ment in Britain which has resulted in 2000 golf
clubs being asked to subscribe £2 each yearly
to establish a board of research for the scien-
tific investigation of green-keeping. That
sort of thing encourages golf clubs to raise
their fees, and these are high enough already.
In my experience in many lands it is quite
easy to maintan decent greens if the neces-
sary precautions are taken. These are
simple. They amount, in essentials, to
appointing a Scotsman as greenkeeper, see-
ing that he is given as small a salary and
as adequate a supply of whisky as he v/ill
consent to accept, and leaving the rest to
him and Providence.
(Continued on next page.)


Old €©mt-pfease
ufl
in
y
3"
M
r
B
m
s
k»«
Jwz*
£
eg
i*
%
Give that order in anq bar
and watch the result
ss
9o'i
i
hr
: p7?
mi
j
mi|3uviUojs
»%* .. • o * tO'icCT
OitfilUßtG.
80 w a «|
AA/ALK into any bar and order Old Court Whisky, Ninety-
nine times out of every hundred it will be supplied
with pleasure.
On the odd occasion you may find an alternative recom-
mended —or you may be told that the house does not stock it.
If this occurs, we put it to you as a good Australian to ask
why. Press for a logical answer. Analyse that answer —
carefully.
We venture the opinion that the reason given will not
satisfy you.
No sound argument can be advanced against Old Court’s
quality and superiority.
c olutTourh
♦
(f)ho Vorlcfc Purest


Buy your Leave Car
with fixed re-purchase Price
The beautifully illustrated and helpful Brochure
entitled “Seeing Englmd by Car” describes the
most comprehensive Car Service ever evolved —en-
abling you to have your own Car while in England
with re-purchase price fixed before you buy it,
Write for free copy of H gJB B £
this brochure to-day BuHUIL jB Jm
England’s Leading
Motor Agents,
Devonshire House,
Ticcadilly, W.l,
and a other Branches, s'* &
London and [ ft
Manchester.
\4
%
■
A Free Copy of “Seeing England by Oar” will be
sent free on application from the offices of this
paper, 214 George Street North, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
UNCLAIMED MONEY, Persons Wanted,
or Representatives.
BRODIE, Kate and Maggie (sisters).
BARBER, John William, son of Jemima Barber. [
BRADFORD, J. Sydney, late A.I.F.
CONNOLLY, Joseph, born in 1895, formerly of
Ireland.
DUNLOP, James, formerly of Chorlton-on-Medlock,
Manchester, England.
GOODLIFFE, - Thomas, formerly of Lower Tarwin,
Victoria.
BINDER, Frank Frederick, formerly of England.
HOGAN, Bridget, daughter of Cornelius Hogan, I
deceased.
IJELY, Thomas, formerly of South Fremantle, W.A.
HUTHNANCE, Ernest Edmund.
JOHNS, George, left Armagh, Clare, S.A., about 1866.
JOYCE, Robert, Jun., formerly of Hampstead, Eng. j
JAMES, Arthur John Senior
JONES, Marie, a theatrical artist.
KAUFMAN, Rose Revitt Antolenia.
KEARNS, Rex, nephew of Thomas Revitt, deceased.
KINGSHOTT, Edwin and William, sons of . Win.
Kingshott.
LONSDALE, Georgina, sister of Thomas Revitt,
deceased.
MARKEY, Edwin Allan, son of James Markey,
deceased.
MORRISSEY, Francis, formerly of Hawera, New
Zealand.
MUELLER, Mrs. Nora (nee McGrath).
MOORE, Adeline, formerly of Broken Hill, about
1890.
PARKS, or PARIvES, Mary Beatrice.
PARKER, Joseph John, son of Catherine Parker,
deceased.
ROSSITER, Catherine, married Charles Bolton in
1833.
ROOKE, Samuel John Jones, native of Birmingham.
SCOTT, William, believed formerly of Longreach j
and Rockhampton, 1915.
SMYTH, David, stepson of James Markey, deceased.
Write Mr. TELFER, 1G Pirie Street, Adelaide,
immediately.
DAINA LUIGI. —Any person who can fur-
nish the present whereabouts of Raina
Luigi, who left Lakeside, Western Australia,
about 17 years ago, is j requested to communi-
cate with F. C. Cowle & Co., Solicitors,
Kalgoorlie, W.A.
Legal Notice.
HEIRS WANTED.
A PETITION has been presented to the
Sheriff of Lanarkshire, at Glasgow, at
the instance of Mrs. Jeanie Garry, or Willock,
residing at Calgary, 21 Thornecliffe Gardens,
Moray Park, Glasgow, and Mrs. .Tanet Garry,
or Greig, residing at 139 Main Street, Elders-
lie, Johnstone,/ against the Parish Council of
the Parish of Irvine, in the County of Ayr;
Mrs. Margaret Haggarty, or Keenan, 24
Grace Street, Anderston, Glasgow; Robert
Garry, Whitbank Station, South Africa; and
William Garry, Provost, Alberta, Canada,
craving the Court to find that David Garry,
whose last known address was 449 St.
Vincent Street, Glasgow, who carried on the
business of a Bookmaker in Glasgow, and
who was known to be at one time in Calgary,
Canada, and latterly in Australia, has dis-
appeared, that he has not been known to be
alive after 30th November, 1911, and that
he died or must be presumed to have died on
30th November, 1918. And to find any
Defender offering opposition thereto liable
in expenses, and to discern therefor. And
his Lordship has been pleased to pronounce
the following Interlocutor :
“Glasgow, 9tli November, 1928: The Sheriff
Substitute having considered the foregoing
Petition appoints the Petitioners to pub-
lish once in each of the Glasgow Herald,
the Albertan and the Sydney Bulletin
newspapers an import of the said petition
and of this Deliverance: Further appoints
a copy of this Petition and Deliverance to
be served on the Defenders, the Parish
Council, of the Parish of Irvine, and
Mrs. Haggarty, or Keenan: Grants War-
rant to cite edictally on 14 days induciae
the within-designed Defenders, Robert
Garry a'nd William Garry, and Ordains
any person interested if he or they intend
to show cause why the prayer of the
Petition should not be-granted to lodge in
the hands of the Clerk of Court at Glas-
gow a Notice of Appearance within three
months from the date of such service or
insertion in said newspapers.”
Of all which intimation is hereby given.
KIDSTONS & CO..
50 West Regent Street,
Glasgow, Scotland.
Agents for the Petitioners.
Position Wanted.
TO STATION OWNERS.
ENERGETIC married man, 42, with wife
and two children (9 and 11), wants
position to take charge or management oi
up-to-date sheep property in N.S.W. oi
Queensland; used to all kinds of machinery
and windmills. Lifelong experience in Vic
toria and Riverina—services guaranteed
Good character, genuine references. Inquirie
to this office.
Mick Simmons
for Every
Sporting Need!
WINCHESTER
Electric Focussing
TORC H E S
—for the car, the home, night
fishing, the holiday, etc.; and also
an acceptable Christmas Gift.
IV 0
5-Cell,
Focussing,
1 500 feet
range, 27/6
4-Cell,
Focussing, 1000
feet range, 25/-
3-CeH,
Focussing, 6CO
feet range, 21/-
3-Cell,
Focussing, 350
feet range,
17/6
2-Cell,
Focussing, 200
feet range,
11/6
(Postage on any one
Torch, 9d.)
electric
POCKET LAMPS
26 to 6|6
HUNTING
KNIVES
No Sportsman’s Kit is
complete without a good
Hunting Knife.
The “Bowie” English
Hunting Knife, made
of finest quality steel;
this is a genuine Bowie
pattern knife, having a
stag handle, and double
metal guard, with
sheath.
sin. blade .... 6/6
6in. blade .... 7/6
The “Boone” English
Hunting Knife, ideal for
sticking, skinning,
cleaning, slicing, etc.;
handle of bakelite,
leather and brass, alu-
minium tip, with sheath.
4fin. blade .... 7/6
6in. blade .... 8/6
The “Teddy” Stainless
English Hunting Knife,
an exceptionally well-
ground knife; with
sheath.
4fin. blade .... 10/6
(.Postage on any one Knife, 6d.)
-mrrcHER
CERT D.8.8.L. GUN
12-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel
barrels, left choke, extension rib,
rebounding locks, pistol grip, walnut
stock; weight, 71b £3/3/-
With Crossbolt £3/15/-
Carriage paid.
Mick Simmons, Ltd.
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, Sydney.
“Australia’s Largest Sports Outfitters
Car and Cycle
“M.H.”: A. J. Cooper accomplished a
noteworthy feat of slow’ driving with a
Hudson Sedan in the trial at Robertson
(N.S.W.). On top gear, he covered 220yds.
in 4min. 53 3-ssec., which works out at about
14 m.p.h.
* * * *
“Power”: The growing vogue of the litre
measurement of engine capacity has led to a
lot of discussion as to how the litre approxi-
mates to the better understood.horse-power
rating. The litre, 100 c.c., may be taken
as a trifle over 7 h.p. Where a multi-cylinder
engine comes into the question, the calcula-
tion has to be extended. To get the cubic
capacity of any single-cylinder engine, square
the diameter of the cylinder and multiply
by .7854. ( Multiply the result by the length
of the stroke —all this, by the way, in centi-
metres. In the case of a multi-cylinder
engine, multiply the above result by the
number of cylinders.
* * * *
“Trembler” : A car performance which was
worth a hundred of the average reliability
and endurance trials carefully staged by
manufacturers was recently brought off by
G. S. Bouwer. He drove a Chrysler
car from London to Capetown inside
36 days, and found himself with only
30 hours left to complete the final
1000 miles. Luck stood to him, and
he did it. Curiously enough, he found
the hard and open Nubian desert, which,
with its ironstone boulders, much re-
sembles the “gibber” country of Centralia,
the toughest section of his job. Here he could
average only 300 miles a day, while in the
much-dreaded jungle and swamp stretches of
Central Africa he was able to strike a daily
rate of 500 miles. There was no mechanical
trouble and only one smash, due to butting a
stump. This sort of performance does more
to advance the reputation of the motor-car
for absolute dependability than all the dis-
tance stunts staged in a year.
* -i< * *
“Garry”: The Golden Arrow 7 , in which
Major Segrave is to make his next assault
on the flying mile (B. 19/12/’2B), is really
an improved edition of Malcolm Campbell’s
Bluebird. The 900-h.p. Napier, aero-engine,
however, has been improved upon, its maxi-
mum engine speed being 3400 r.p.m. in place
of the Bluebird’s 3069. The 12 cylinders
are of the same capacity l —sJin. bore and
s£in. stroke in both cars, and the weight is
the same, 24 tons. The theoretical speed of
the Bluebird was 213 m.p.h.—it attained
206.95 m.p.h. on actual test —and the Golden
Arrow’s is 254.44 m.p.h.—it is expected to
attain at least 240. The Sunbeam in which
H. W. AUSTIN, the star of the visiting
English tennis team, who is rated as
the finest singles player in the British
Isles.
Segrave first exceeded 200 m.p.h. weighs
3§ tons; Ray Keech’s Triplex Special,
present holder, of the record (207.55 m.p.h.),
weighs 34 tons. Its 50 per cent, more power
than the Sunbeam and 6§ per cent, less
weight added only 3.71 miles an hour to the
British car’s record, and its advantage of
66§ per cent, more power over Campbell’s
Bluebird was offset by a 40 per cent, greater
weight, the balance of advantage being ex-
pressed by a scant four-tenths of a mile in
the hour of extra speed.
* * * *
“Whizz”: The crowd that follows dirt-
track motor-cycle racing in Brisbane is a big
and willing one, and the Speedway was
packed to see the finals of the 34-h.p. cham-
pionship of Australia. The race was won
by the Townsville lad, Max Grosski’eutz, who
easily beat Alby Taylor in 75 2-ssec. for the
mile (four lapsj. Grosskreutz, who rode an
A.J.S., only came into the limelight six
months ago, when he arrived from the
North. Later the same evening he won a
special race on a borrowed machine, beat-
ing such crackajacks as Huxley and Pearce.
* * * *.
“Sprocket”: A record-breaking ride, round
Australia was completed last week, when J.
Munro, riding a 498-c.c. Ariel motor-cycle,
reached Sydney, which he left in July last.
Munro took the route through Queensland
and the N.T. He is the first to have done
this, and the first to attempt the journey
on such a small-powered machine. Of
the many accidents that befell him one
was unusual. His bike fell when he was
so weak from an attack of malaria that She
could not push it off him for a minute or
so. In the meantime the red-hot exhaust-
pipe burned a leg so severely he had to be
treated in a mission hospital.
Miscellaneous
“Blue Chalk”: The match between Fred
Lindrum and Will Smith in London ended
in the smashing defeat of Fred, Smith scor-
ing 30,000 to his 11,722. Smith’s biggest
break was 633, and Lindrum’s 468. The
figures are a record for a margin betw r een
players in a first-class match.
“Hotham” : Anyone feeling that he requires
some sustained exercise in the open air is
advised to get in touch with the St. Stephen’s
Harriers, one of the most notable of Vic-
torian athletic clubs. It is now organising- a
relay race for bona fide amateurs from Mel-
bourne to Sydney in September. It is esti-
mated that the cost will not exceed £l5O.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: That fine N.S.W. runner W.
Hunt put up a great performance in the State
championships recently by winning all the
events from the 100 yards to the half-mile?.
He did even better at Sydney Cricket Ground
when he relieved the monotony of the second
Test by covering- the half-mile on the grass
in Imin. 55 4-ssfec., a record for Australia
and Maoriland; the previous best was the
lmin. 56 l-ssec. of the American champion,
Lloyd Hahn, put up m M.L. in 1926. D. G. A.
Lowe holds the world’s best figures with
lmin. 51 l-ssec. at the recent Olympiad.
Hunt should concentrate on either the sprints
or the middle distances. Trying to cover
too many spells failure in all in the great
majority of cases.
* sic *
“Blade” : Bobby Pearce, one of the greatest
amateur scullers Australia has known, has
practically decided on turning professional.
Since his return from Europe he has found
difficulty in getting work at his trade, and
since America offers athletes of his type ex-
ceptional opportunities of making money, he
has made up his mind not to miss the chance.
The position is interesting because Pearce,
in common with the other members
of the Olympic team, signed an agreement
not to turn professional within two years of
returning from Amsterdam, under penalty
of forfeiting £250. If a deposit of this sum
had been insisted on in the case of each
athlete, there might have been some use in
the farcical attempt at precaution. As it
is the agreement is worthless, or, at the
best, unenforceable.
*#. # *
“Slide”: Albert Barry having expressed
himself ready and willing to take on Good-
sell or any other aspirant to the world’s
sculling championship on the Thames in
June, Alf Burns, of the Northern Rivers
(N.S.W.), has sent along a defiance. Ail the
local nobility and gentry are now hard at it
collecting the necessary funds for the stake
and expenses. In the meantime, Burns’s
backers are said to be anxious for him to
have a crack at Pearce, but that indi-
vidual’s American commitments may prevent
the meeting for the present.
* * * *
“Stretcher”: The Queensland Rowing
Association has decided that the heavy ex-
pense (£700) will prevent the dispatch of an
eight-oar crew to Perth. It is a pity, for the
Northerners boated a great crew on the
Nepean last May, and if their cox had
steered a better course would have gone
close to heading the winners, Westralia. In;
the long series of contests. Queensland has
never yet rowed on the Swan, though the
Westralians have twice visited Brisbane.
Perhaps it is not too late yet.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: That very “swish” social.
and athletic event, the Oxford and Gam-
bridge Rugger match, was played on the
international ground at Twickenham last
week, Cambridge winning by 14 (4 tries and
a goal) to 10 (a try, a field goal and a
penalty goal). For once no Australian
player seems to have figured in the match.
This game makes honors easy between the
Dark and Light Blues, each side having won
20 matches and 9 having been drawn.
* * * *
“Hamer”: If Coolidge’s Republic has its
marbles championships Britain also has its
exacting sports. Recently one C. White, of
Tollesbury in Essex, had to defend his cham-
pionship against a Suffolk challenger, A.
Page. White preserved his title by picking
list. 21b. of winkles in If hours, whilst his
opponent could do no more than 9st. 101 b.
* # $ *
“Spoof”: Having worked the Australian
mug market for all it was worth, the foreign
wrestling fraternity has betaken itself to
Maoriland,, which is now being thrilled with
the ferocious flim-flam that went so well on
this side for a time. A match between that
eminent actor Kilonis and Yankee McCar-
thy at Auckland contained all the usual mas-
terly touches, and Kilonis introduced a tell-
ing variation by tearing off the referee’s shirt.
It is understood that the management depre-
cates this tendency to “gag” the part instead
of following the accepted script.
* * * *
“Backwoodsman”: The N.S.W. bowling-
season ended in a' babel of dissension over
the merits of the Keesing system of con-
ducting the pennant competitions, and
numerous old gentlemen risked apoplectic
fits in their endeavors, to prove the new idea
a magnificent success or, per contra, a blanky
frost. Indeed, the association is split in
twain, and bowlers who were as David and
Jonathan for years uncounted now drink at
opposite ends of the bar. As a matter of fact,
there is a lot to be said for the opponents of
the new system. It has made the pennant
competition a matter of social and physical
enjoyment and relaxation, instead of the
life-and-death battle for supremacy it should
be. What the cricket writers in the dailies
refer to as “the Test-match atmosphere” is
now utterly wanting.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”; The attitude which a
considerable portion of the Australian press
is beginning to take towards sport is inter-
esting. It consists in constant clamor about
the unselfishness of various athletic heroes
who give up their valuable time and sacrifice
their life’s prospects to uphold the “honor” of
Australia in cricket and other athletic com-
petitions. To this is added the invariable
appeal to some nebulous authority or other
to pay the altruistic patriots more money
than they are getting at present. The idea
that a player should be content to play for
the sake of the game itself, as was once the
foolish fashion, is scouted by these journal-
istic cadgers. The cash aspect in sport is all
they are able to discern, and, since it costs
them nothing, they continually call upon
other people to fork out. Th e answer to all
this blither is simple enough. If a man does
not feel inclined to leave off work and play
unless he is paid for the latter as well, let
him leave off playing and concentrate on
work. The real spirit of a sportsman is not
in him.


The cen/ne of Queen s /an c/s
c//shnjtfut&hoc/ Socio/ Life.
%ok\
Co RDISn
BRISBANE
f
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
c
in an fiastern Setting
BOXING
NIGHT
DINNER, 15/-
TO 12 O’CLOCK.
NEW YEAR
EVE
CHILDREN’S
BALL 57-
presents
3 to 5.30
It!
NEW YEAR’S
EVE DINNER
£2/2/-
TO 2 O’CLOCK
On Christmas and
New Year’s Eve a
Gorgeous Gift will
be presented to
each guest.
FOR RESERVATIONS RING
BW 1 3 6 I.
Under
Royal
Warrant
d
To H.NL
GeorgeV
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
WLmWMB
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
Qiarieslieidsied^
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD.
Australasian ts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
Kay se[?]
CLOVES
Last week Sydney wore a wreath of Clirist-
inas-bush in her hair and a golden smile on
her face. If by Christmas Eve the wreath
was a bit awry, that came from loading the
branches of Christmas trees. Never have
these fruited more thickly, and the pleasing
part about it was that the fruit seemed to
fall into the hands most eager for it. If there
was a toyless child in Sydney on December
25 the fault did not lie with the kinder-
garten teacher or the welfare worker. The
shop windows kept two traffic policemen busy
at some of tin l crowded corners. One store
had two windows turned into a jungle,
where all sorts of furry animals climbed or
hung on leafy boughs, while a big, wonder-
ing teddy popped his head out of a hollow
log to see the goings-on. Old gentlemen in
Turkey twill and cotton-wool whiskers list-
ened to the confidential whispers of thou-
sands of youngsters, and promised all things
to the tiny petitioners.
Toys made in Germany usurped a good
deal of the space in most of the toy depart-
ments. But the German dolly is a sad and
stodgy fraulein, nothing to compare with her
dashing neighbor the French mademoiselle;
and as for the English-made cuddlies—furry
dogs and velvet bunnies and cats and mon-
keys—there’s no other make to touch them.
One big shop showed goods made in Ger-
many, toys made in Switzerland, in Czecho-
slovakia, in Italy, in France. There were
a few lines marked “Made in England” ; this
Letter, alas, found nothing stamped “Made
in Australia.” But in the most tactless dis-
play encountered in a week’s shopping was
made up of regiments of soldiers, foot,
horse, privates and generals, all stamped
“Made in Germany.”
Those nice girls who call themselves the
“Kincoppal Revellers” did a pretty thing
one night last week when they conjured up
a glowing Christmas-tree for the children at
the Darlington Institution. The blind little
ones, it is true, could not see the candles
and the glittering tinsel, but the sensitive
fingers could trace the outline of dollie’s
face and the glorious intricacies of engines ;
in addition there was gay music, and a con-
jurer did wonderful things for the little
girls and boys who are deaf and dumb.
At half-past two a small girl who looked
like Miss Dutch Cleanser was in the middle
of the Wentworth ballroom pursuing two
young ladies who represented a four-year-old
butterfly and a Columbine of slightly less.
As half-past five the kapok mattresses at the
foot of the slippery slides in the palm court
looked as flat as flounders. The three hours
in between had been packed to bursting-point
with fun for the 400 kiddies who were lucky
enough to be at the Christmas party in aid
of the Rachel Forster Hospital. Everything
that could make a party go had been sup-
plied. Lohengrin came to the jollity
—no sailing about in a tame old swan for
this young man, who impressively led the
Crocodile. • It was a long crocodile, and
wound in and out among the chairs and the
Egyptian arches. It laughed and danced
along in the trail of Father Christmas, who
was really Dr. Elsie Dalziell, and while it
passed along the prize costumes were decided
by sculptor Theo .Cowan; beauteous Jessica
Harcourt, in the scarlet and gold and the
impressive head-dress she wears as Queen of
France in “The Vagabond King” ; and Marian
Marcus Clark, a.s Lady Devine. Bill Forster
and Andrew Tait, probably influenced by the
prevailing atmosphere of plum-pudding and
mince-pies, went as chefs. They won a prize,
too. Norma Jones, who was as lovely a
butterfly as ever ate a cream-puff, won a
prize, as did a pocket-edition Eastern prin-
cess, who turned out to be May Kermode.
The Christmas hamper raffled in the cause
of the T.B. soldier and sailor brought over
£7O to the fund. It was an outsize hamper,
being, in fact, a clothes-basket, and was won
by a girl who had ordy one ticket. Mrs. R. C.
Hagon, one of the committee, motored it to
Paddington, so that the prize-winner was not
even a taxi fare out of pocket.
Sydney flappers took a long, lingering look
at James Lidcly, the Francois Villon of “The
Vagabond King,” last Wednesday night. It
was his final appearance as a bachelor. On
Thursday he placed his crown, half-crowns
and shillings at the feet of Esther Gaguet,
of New Orleans, at St. Jude’s, Randwick.
The lady, who was a war widow, is pretty,
dark and vivacious, and after the deed of
transfer was duly filled in she was to be seen
watching her bridegroom’s performance as
the Poet King from the managerial box.
She wore primrose taffetas and two platinum
rings (wedding and engagement) blazing
with diamonds. The two had met years ago
in New Orleans, and when Mrs. Gaguet
arrived in Sydney she rang up her old friend;
and in four days it was “haste to the wed-
ding.” Mrs. Percy Stewart Dawson was
matron of honor, and the toasts were honored
at the Ambassadors.
A Karitane nurse who undressed and
bathed and bassineted baby was the star
turn at the children’s party at the Went-
worth in aid of the Karitane Mothercraft
Training Centre. The baby was a doll and
the bassinet a singularly beautiful bit of
furniture. Small girls sighed over the com-
bination in sheer delight, and joy was intense
when it was made known that the doll was
to be the prize for the guessing competition.
This was a very happy party, and every-
body’s friend, Rupert Markham, was the
Santa Claus who brought gifts to each table-
ful of tiny ones. Mrs. Leslie Waterhouse
was president of a committee which included
Mrs. Arthur Allen, Mrs. John Fuller, Mrs. J.
C. Leete and Mrs. John Purves, Margaret
Allen and Mrs. McGladery. Marcia Allen
sold balloons and Barbara Allen helped Mrs.
Stephen Herford at Ye Olde Wishing Well. A
dolls’ ballet was a charming bit of the enter-
tainment, much applauded by Nellie Stewart,
who was there with daughter Mrs. Mayne
Linton and two bonny grandsons.
The spider monkeys in the Zoo have now
something else to look at, Arthur Rickard
having presented the trustees with a floral
clock after the fashion of the one in Prince’s-
street, Edinburgh. There is a dial worked
out in bedding plants of various tones of
green and brown and red, and the hands
are narrow moving beds in shallow tapering
pans. The motive power is tucked under a
synthetic rock alongside, and when this
mechanism has been brought into subjection
—which it hasn’t been so far, although the
gift was handed over one fine day last week-
some creature hitherto unknown to zoos will
pipe the quarter-hours. But why will people
break up beautiful green lawn’s with little
scraps of flower-beds in weird designs? The
sin has been committed here again.
Sydney has still another circle of writing
people. Very nice and comfortable these
circles are, too, for if one is a writer of
sorts one looks around them and sees men
and women who have made rather a suc-
cess of the vocation, and that’s encouraging,
and others who are making as bad a show-
ing as oneself, and that’s consoling. The
new circle has a friendly name, too. It is
called the Fellowship of Writers. Professor
Le Gay Brereton is one of the shining lights;
others are Mary Gilmore, “Gilrooney” (R.
J. Cassidy) and MrsL Cassidy. Poetess Mar-
jorie Quinn is the secretary. On the first
Tuesday in February, at the Lyceum Club,
Steele Rudd will read a paper telling how
he wrote “On Our Selection,” and Rod Quinn
will tell of his associations and friendships
with Australian writers and editors. But if
Rod reads a list of his friends, the company
won’t get home till morning.
Kind hearts are more than coronets, or
even minor titles; and that is why this Letter
wants you to meet Westralian knight
“Tommy” Coombe’s good lady. Ever since the
appeal for the
Deaf and
Dumb and
the Blind
children at
D a r ling ton
was launched
she has been
an active
worker in the
cause. The
Hundreds and
Thousands
party at the
W entworth
last Friday, of
which she was
president, was
the crowning
achievement of
her yea r’s
good work.
Nearly 600 of
the c i t y’s
happy young-
sters were among those present. The por-
trait is one of Bernice Agar’s.
The Australian piano industry employs
552 hands in Sydney alone, and all of them
were seated at meat within David Jones’s
the other night when the firm of Beale gath-
ered together for its annual rejoicing and
slap on the back. Seven solid silver loving-
cups shimmered above seven pools of silver
light in the direct vision of the arrivals by
the red-lacquer lifts. Near by a discreetly-
draped mystery held itself aloof. The loving-
cups were later handed out by O. C. Beale
to the seven employees who this year first
boast a 20 years’ service with the firm. There
are now 82 who have passed this milestone,
and some of them are progressing towards
their fortieth year on the pay-roll. When
uncovered the mystery resolved into a bust
of Mr O. C. Beale, done by Bertram Mac-
kennal. This was presented, on behalf of
the staff, by Kelso King, whose happy little
speech was supported by Knight Clifton
Love and Alfred Wunderlich.
Sydney writing world lost one of its best-
known figures when Mrs. Ada Britton died
last week, in or near her eighties. Mrs. Brit-
ton came from Birmingham to Australia as
a child with her parents, the Benjamin Wil-
loughbys. She married Alexander Britton,
then sub-editor on the Melbourne Argus, and
later associate-editor of the S. M. Herald.
Still later he was appointed Government His-
torian of New South Wales and Editor of
Records in succession to G. B. Barton, but
he lived to complete only one volume. Mrs.
Britton herself contributed to the S. M.
Herald and the Argus, of which her
brother, the late Howard Willoughby, was
editor, and for some years was the Sydney
correspondent of Melbourne Punch. When
tire Commonwealth Literary Pensions Fund
was started Mrs. Britton was one of three
women granted benefactions of fl a week.
The other two were the widows of Marcus
Clarke and George Essex Evans. Of her four
children one only survives her—Mrs. Theo-
dosia Wallace, widely known as a sparkling
Sydney presswoman.
The young lady in this Hollywood picture
is Mrs. F. J. Davy, the secretary of the
week’s successful children's Christmas party
for the benefit of the Rachel Forster hospital
—S yd n e y’s
hospital for
women, run
entirely by
women doc-
t o r s. Mr s.
Davy, who is
both an ami-
able and effici-
ent committee
worker, tells a
pretty story
about the
Rachel For-
ster, which
stands amid
the arid streets
of Redfern.
One day she
stopped to
speak to a
small conval-
escent who had
been attending
the clinic six
weeks for a poisoned hand. “Your hand is
nearly better now. Aren’t the doctors clever?”
Mrs. Davy said. “Oh, they’re lovely,” agreed
the youngster. “But,” she added, “I think
it was God who cured my hand. He lives
here, doesn’t He?” And perhaps the little
patient wasn’t far wrong.
Mr. Justice Davidson joined the large
army of married men last Thursday night at
St. James’s. Those who saw his bride, Phyllis
Jones, of Killara, in her white lace and tulle
considered he had every provocation. Elwyn
Bowen-Thomas ’maided in cloud-like pinks
and blues. Stewart Jamieson was best man,
and the feast was spread in the Macquarie
Club, bride’s mother presiding in the smartest
of black-and-white.
The Australasian Pioneers’ Club broke
fresh ground last week by staging its first big
Christmas reception in its home. Members
and friends took possession of the spacious
rooms whose chairs are a temptation to
that lazy content and its ensuing avoirdupois
against which this generation must be for
ever at war. The Phillip-street headquarters
are rich in Australian literature and por-
traits of the nation’s pioneers. Mrs. Mac-
quarie looksi out from one frame, and the
first white girl born in Australia from
another. Mr. Kelso King, the club’s presi-
dent, received the guests, while his wife
received a posy of delphiniums and roses from
the Guy Blaxland garden. There were bil-
liards and bridge and dancing next door in
St. James’s Hall.
Pretty “Cyde” Henriette de Warren, for-
merly of Toowong, Brisbane, has found
among other things a glittering engagement
ring on her Christmas tree. The young inan
who piped her to the discovery is John
Warren Binney, a son of the late Dr. E. H.
Binney and Mrs. Binney, of Vaucluse.
Another just-before-Christxnas bride was
Gwen Waterhouse, of Killara, who became
Mrs. J. E. Cassidy at St. Martin’s Church
in the same North Shore line suburb.
Ernest Blackwell, one of Sydney’s most
brilliant writers before he became one of
its leading dentists, passed in glory down the
aisle of St. Stephen’s last Wednesday night.
But the glory was only reflected; it came
from daughter Betty, whom he was giving
away in matrimony. The wedding frock
suggested sea foam shot with moonlight,
being blown together of ivory tulle and silver.
A head-dress of ’ace specially brought from
France flowed into long ripples of tulle veil-
ing. and the bouquet was of lily of the
valley and frangipani. The bridegroom was
Arthur Cooper, of Killara, and he was sup-
ported by Eric Cooper. Norman Hardm»
and Thomas Lord. Three ’maids, Covey
Blackwell, Jean Cooper and Peggy Rogers,
trailed the glow of sunset taffetas in
bride’s wake. Toasts were at the Cavaiier,
where the bride’s mother dispensed hospi-
tality, her black laces forming a striking
background for her posy of deep red roses.
The big bustle of next week will be pro-
vided by the knights and ladies of the Order
of St. John of Jerusalem. Four representa-
tives of this very ancient order are crusading
through Australia, Sir John Prescott Hewett,
Major Colin Macßae, Lady Margaret Macßae
and Mrs. Atkinson. Only Sir John Prescott
Ilewott and Mrs. Atkinson, who is his daugh-
ter in addition to being a Dame of Grace ot
the venerable Order, will visit Sydney, Lady
Macßae being detained in Melbourne through
illness. The star turn of the visit will
be an investiture (the first in this State),
when various faithful servants of St. John
will be admitted into the Order or have
titles bestowed on them in recognition ot
long service. These titles were founded in
the tenth century and are very jealously
guarded; some can be borne only by those
of the blood royal. King George, for instance,
is the sovereign head of the Order in Great
Britain, and members of the Royal family
figure largely in the list of members. The
visitors arrive on the twenty-seventh. The
Kelso Kings are arranging the only private
sliivoo in their honor. Their Sydney address
is the Wentworth.
The Henry Lawson Society, Sydney, of
which Jack Vincent is secretary, ends up
1928 with a membership well over the half-
hundred. It meets on the first Monday in
every month at the Education Building,
Bridge-street. Historian Wiliam Freame, of
Westmead, will start the ball rolling at the
January meeting with a lecture on Henry
Kendall; Arthur Reardon, well known in
socialistic and amateur theatrical circles, will
follow in February with an address on Henry
Lawson And Robert Burns. Membership
costs three shillings per annum.
“A.G.M.’s” letter from London :
Taylor Darbyshire and his wife, Marie Burke’s
mother, Clyde Meynell, Barrington Miller and many
other Australians were in the vestibule of the
Golders Green Hippodrome on October 29, con-
gratulating Mrs. E. J. Carroll on the successful
production of “Lucky Girl,” for which J‘E.J.” and
Bertie Meyer are responsible. Mr. Carroll was un-
able to be present owing to illness, his close and
winning race with pneumonia being another reason
for congratulating his cheery spouse. The per-
formance went with a great bang and Gene Gerrard,
the Irish comedian who is now an established West
End star, made a little speech of thanks. When
the show comes to the Shaftesbury Theatre, Isobel
Elsom will be the leading lady, and it will be
strengthened in other ways in the hope of repeating
the success George Musgrove made at that house
when his “Belle of New York” took London by
storm. This is the first musical play on which
Carroll has ventured in London.
Madge Titheradge was back in London last week
with her millionaire husband, Edgar Park, and crowds
of relations and friends flocked to the Carlton
Hotel to greet the bride and her man. Since her
marriage Miss Titheradge has subjected herself to
the Eton crop at the wish of her husband, and she
looks years younger than before. The visit to
London is only an interlude in an extended honey-
moon, which is to be continued for another six
months in Monte Carlo, Nice, Italy and Algiers.
The Countess of Bective is back in London, and
her social activities since her return from her
honeymoon suggest that she will soon be running
Lady Loughborough a close race for prominence
among the “bright young people.” Lord Bective is
34 years younger than her first husband, Sir
Rupert Clarke, was at the time of his death.
Charles Watson-MilJ, the author of “The Eternal
Flame,” the most discussed play of the moment,
in which the Unknown Soldier rises from the tomb
in Westminster Abbey and explains where the
dead are and their thoughts on the war, has many
near relations in Australia. He is a nephew of Dr.
Alexander Watson, R.N., who removed the bullet
from the body of the Duke of Edinburgh w'hen he
was fired at on the Clontarf Grounds in Sydney.
He is a first cousin of the Watsons of Linda wanna
station, near Warwick (Q.) ; of Mrs. Broughton, of
the same district, and of Mrs. Jack Ham (Caul-
field) and Mr. Alexander Watson (Perth). Watson-
Mill, who has hitherto devoted himself to melo-
drama, ‘is the proprietor of the Theatre Royal,
Leamington Spa, where the piece has its try-out
before seeking the favor of London. The objections to
and lengthy discussions on the play have given it
immense publicity. The author took his inspiration
from the Daily News' articles “Where Are the
Dead ?” and Canon Feist and other great church-
men welcome its influence for good, and praise its
high motives. Bernard Shaw regrets he had not time
to deal with the subject himself.
Bertie Meyer and E. J. Carroll did not lag behind
their daring and successful colleagues in the matter
of prices for the first night of “Lucky Girl” in the
West End; stalls and dress-circle seats were 255.
apiece. The craze for first-nights has become so
keen that at the last moment five guineas were freely
offered at the Bond-street libraries to tempt lucky
holders to part with their seats. Mr. Carroll, still
looking far from well, was sufficiently recovered to
be present; he occupied a box with his elegantly-
gowned wife. Among Australians present were
Cissie Jamieson and her old chief, Clyde Meynell.


m
I
mm
m
m
ďf
The joyfully anticipated
holiday arrives --- your
wardrobe is crowded
with a host of lovely
gowns for all occasions
—your hosiery, so much
in evidence, is created
by Prestige to lend dis-
tinction to your perfect
toilette.
c . cAtl
c Australian
Creation
Q, V
Pl2b
c hosiery
FULLY FASHIONED


!
d d
f
d*
.0
#
O'
Telegraphic, Cable and Wireless Address
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
Delightful phases of the art
of living—unexpected comforts
and surprising features—atmo-
sphere and resources that are
rightfully world-famous. . . .
A magnificently - illustrated
booklet tells of the manifold
attractions that await you at
“The Australia” write for
your copy if you are coming to
Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Tlie Office Flapper is hereby allowed to
do her worst, for one week only.
Dear .Chatterer, —
I’ve just done the trip to Sydney, and
really, old dear, you people who stick in
Melbourne don’t know what life is, really
you don’t. I don’t mean the life of the city
—jazz halls and late suppers after first
nights and surprise parties the host and
hostess have been preparing for for days
past. No! I mean the life of the Great Out-
back, of the vast open spaces where women
are true as steel and never get into the
divorce courts through lack of opportunity'.
And there’s nothing like the motor-car for
getting really close to Nature. I'm not one
of those who believe in rushing through the
landscape as if the traffic signal was going
against you in 2k seconds. No! I believe
in taking things easily so that one can really
see things and study the country’s great
natural, mineral and agricultural resources,
and feel just as Rod Quinn feels when he
communes with the breakers in Lower
George-street, and so forth. So when the
other girls said we’d stay at Mallacoota for
the first night I said “No ! Lakes Entrance
for me,” and put my foot down.
Well, we started late because the other
girl was minus her munitions of war, mean-
ing her powder-puff, and when that was found
we had to pack and repack four times before
I could get in my five dresses. Not that
I believe in loading oneself up with a lot of
impedimenta. No! If you are going to
leave civilisation behind, well, leave it. But
one can’t go into the wilderness practically
naked, can one?
Well, we got everything in at last, includ-
ing the hot-water bags and the butter-cooler
arid the patent travelling wardrobe and the
gramophone and the wireless. I didn’t tell
you about the wireless. I can get 2YB,
4UZ, BKP, ! XQ—in short, all the alphabet
and most of the numerals —and on the dark-
est night, too. It’s the dinkiest set, and
you just poke the plug into two holes in the
car and there you are. Any scientifically-
minded girl can work it.
Well, we started. Now it just shows how
motoring increases one’s knowledge! I’ll
bet when you turn on an electric light in
Melbourne you’ve never thought where the
stuff comes from. Well, listen. It’s the
product of the chemical combustion of the
brown-coal deposits of Yallourn, here in
Victoria, and it’s the world’s greatest hydro-
cephalic industry or something of the sort,
and dear old John Monash digs the stuff
up with an enormous electric shovel—fhat
is, when he’s not at the first nights at His
“Resigned to the inevitable.”
Maj’s. It is a most fascinating place, and
they are doing great work, work that makes
one fee] proud to be an Australian and all
that sort of thing. We didn’t stop at Yal-
lourn because we had to get to Lakes
Entrance by nightfall, and we really had
to step on it. But we read all about it in
the pamphlet.
Well, we got to the Entrance up to
schedule, and it wasn’t bad going, was it,
considering we only had six hours to do
the 200, and every potty little town has its
silly speed limit? Anyhow, the scenery is
only gum-trees, and you can’t stop to look
at every gum-tree, can you?”
Well, we sternly resisted the temptation
to stop at a beautiful new hotel at the
Entrance because, as I said to the other girl,
if we’re going to live Close to Nature, it’s
now or never. Well, my dear, we were just
nearly frantic with despair because the tent
seemed to have crawled right down to the
very bottom of everything, when, would you
believe it, we came to the dinkiest motor-
camp, hot and cold showers, electric light,
dancing hall and everything. There was
even a tap for filling the radiator. It just
shows how easy it is to leave Civilisation be-
hind, once you make up yeur mind ty it.
Well, we had the loveliest night’s rest in
the sweetest rustic bungalow, and, would
you believe it, when I got into bed after the
dancing and tuned in to 3LO, old Lance
Fairfax was speaking from his dressing-
room. Can you imagine anything more
thrillingly barbaric? There we were, as
you might say, right in the midst of the un-
trodden wilderness, with the Sheik of Algeria
telling us how Australian audiences were
the finest in the world, and Melbourne audi-
ences were the finest in Australia!
Well, it was a terrible wrench to leave
Lakes Entrance and plunge once more into
the Unknown —and I don’t know how we
would have done it if we hadn’t got a list
of the best motor-camps all the way to Syd-
ney from the young man with the long, wist-
ful face and the single-seater Buick we had
met the previous evening. The new Desert
Sand color, it was—l mean the Buick. The
young man—my dear, Bibron’s isn’t in it.
To think that out here, right away amongst
the wonders of untrammelled Nature one
should the first really heavenly fox-
trot of one’s corporeal existence
Well, we would have loved to have looked
in at Mallacoota and seen dear old E. J.
Brady. I simply adore Poets, they are so
romantic. Just think of Mr. Brady sitting
there in his study burning the midnight
Delco and writing about his yearnings to
live the life of the primeval savage so that
he can earn money to buy a septic tank or
a Frigidaire installation for his kitchen.
But there, one can’t see all the wonders of
Australia, and we simply had to do the 270
miles to Bateman’s Bay by nightfall.
Now, would you believe it, when we drove
up the main street of Bateman’s Bay and
saw what a one-horse, old-time-dancing-at-
the-School-of-Arts-on-Fridays show it was
and only Adolphe Menjou on at the pictures,
and we both simply loathe Adolphe Menjou,
well, my dear, we were simply in despair
and ready to drive straight on into the Paci-
fic, when who should we see in front of the
hotel but the young, man with the Desert
Sand Buick. Or, rather, we saw his legs
because his head -was inside the bonnet.
Well, it seems he had really intended to
make Ulladalla that night on a most impor-
tant engagement, and something ' jolly well
went wrong with his non-starter. So, of
course, there was nothing else for it. We
had reajly intended to unearth the tent and
spend the night in harmony with Nature,
but we couldn’t very well abandon the young
man to the horrors of an evening in a strange
hotel with nobody to talk to, could we? So
we got out the gramophone after dinner, and
I had a second instalment of that fox-trot.
Well, I can’t go on describing every inch
of the way or this Letter would last from
now till Doomsday. Besides, we found
Sydney was only 231 miles, and we made
careful inquiries and found that there were
no really important Places of Historic In-
terest en route or key industries or great
natural Resources or anything of that sort,
and, anyhow, they are all fully described in
Mr. Broadbent’s guide-book. So to cut a
long story short, we stepped on it.
Well, dear, some parts of the Prince’s
Highway are good, but some are simply no-
thing more or less than an insult to the Heir
Apparent, so when I tell you that we arrived
at the Australia in time for afternoon tea
you can come to your own conclusions about
the Fundamental Biological Inferiority of
Woman!
Oh, but I forgot to tell you about Norman
Lindsay. Well, it seems that Mr. Lindsay
is one of New South Wales’s national monu-
ments, known as the hermit of Springwood,
and it seems when a person is a hermit
everybody is expected to call on him, and
as it wasn’t more than an extra sixty miles,
well, old thing, imagine us marching up the
drive and pretty timorous, let me tell you.
Well, you’re quite wrong about him. He's
not a bit like his pictures. No! Lie’s just
a nice, sweet old gentleman and fully clothed
too, not the least bit of a satyr. And so
psychic!
Well, my dear, I asked a gentleman I
met in Sydney about Norman Lindsay. The
gentleman knows all about the basic wage and
Mr. Freud and all that sort of thing, and it
seems that Mr. Lindsay is an example of the
Law of Compensation. That is to say, the
“We stepped on it.”
poor dear man simply couldn’t go chasing
around clad in nothing but a smile, or he
would catch his death of cold, so he draws
other people doing it.
Well. I don’t know about that, but I do
know that Sydney was an absolute washout.
You won’t believe me, but after removing
the stains of travel and dressing with the
utmost elaborate care, we sallied into the
lounge at the Australia —well, we simply sat
down and rubbed our eyes, figuratively speak-
ing—I mean, we called weakly for a cock-
tail. Am I dreaming, asked the other girl,
or is this a museum reconstruction of an Old
Grammarians’ Union? It seems, I answered,
that we’ve struck the Back to Melbourne
movement, and all the oldest and baldest
members of the party have just collected
here for mutual encouragement before trust-
ing their aged limbs to the perils of the
journey. My dear, there wasn't a man there
under fifty or one solitary palsied example
that didn’t look as if he hailed from the
city by the Yarra and had landed with Bat-
man. And, as the other girl remarked, sotto
voce, they all looked the yes-my-girlT-knew-
your-father sort. And as for foxtrotting,
you’d as soon ask them to throw a hand-
spring.
Well, we put some leading questions to
the head-waiter, and it seems that at this
time of the year all the fattest and most
venerable and most indissolubly married
business men in Melbourne have important
engagements in Bagdad-on-the-Harbor, and
they write letters home hinting at the sheik-
ish times they are having so as to keep their
wives up to the mark you know. Though
as a matter of
plain, sordid fact,
and between you
and me, all they do
is to take four-
penny rides on the
Harbor and pay
reckless visits to
the Mitchell Lib-
rary. At least,
that is what the
Methuselah did who
took us under his
wing as he called
it and showed us
the National Gal-
lery and the Com-
monwealth Bank
and other places of alleged importance.
Though he certainly did try to squeeze
my hand in the one and only taxi
he shouted us, but I merely remarked, “Try
the radiator, old thing; you might find that
warmer.”
Well, after being invited for the 10th
time to Taronga by the 49th Old Friend-of-
the Family, we simply beat it for Canberra,
My dear, every intelligent girl should see
Canberra. It is an education. It seems that
Canberra is ruled by an Oligarchy (whatever
that is) according to a System so that there
shall be absolutely no waste of public money
and everything shall be done in the most up-
economic manner possible. Well, it seems
that a man built a house a few d°°£ s ”
from the Oligarchy’s office, and when tn.
Oligarchy heard about it some six montns
later, they looked up the regulations ‘
found that under Rule 991, ,Chause 406,
had to have his garden planted forhim. u
they rang for the Chief Architect, und
made out a Plan showing the most sys-
tematic spots to plant the trees, and
men and a motor-lorry were sent to execu e
it. Well, it seems that one tree had to go
in front of the man’s garage and another m
the middle of the cabbage patch. Well, the
owner got quite nasty, but the men _wer.'
perfectly calm and firm with him, and pointed
out that it was all part of the System. i O
they planted the trees according to instruc-
tions, and the owner wrote to the Oligarchy
and complained bitterly about not being ab.e
to get his car out. The Oligarchy are really
quite reasonable people if you approach them
in the proper way, and they ignored the
nasty tone of the letter, and pointed out
that a System could not be altered, but they
would shift the garage and the cabbage
patch absolutely free of all cost whatever to
the owner.
Of course we inspected Parliament House,
because that is the heart and centre of the
System, but it was tactless of the other girl
to tell Mr. Monahan that she thought it was
the new picture-palace, though it was a mis-
take anybody would make, seeing that it is
the most expensive-looking building in the
city. Mi-. Monahan is Clerk of the Senate,
and it is his duty to show new members the
way to the billiard-room and the gymnasium
and the dining-room and the proper way to
kiss the Speaker and other legislative func-
tions.
Well, after seeing Parliament Plouse one
can fully understand w-hy defeated members
find it so hard to smile when the result of
the polling is announced and they have to
congratulate the man who is going to inherit
their bootlegger. Still, one can have too
much of a System, and I will just reveal to
you secretly that, although according to the
statistics the climate of Carberra is fine, the
weather is simply beastly. So, as you can
imagine, we were only too pleased to shake
the dust of Canberra off our feet and make
for Melbourne.
Well, we learnt that there was nothing
between Canberra and Melbourne that one
hasn’t seen a thousand times before, and
that if we cut it out at an even 50 we
could reach home in time for supper. So
it was Fate that just as we were in the
very midst of the Never-Never, not a garage
anywhere in sight, in fact, no sign of human
habitation, the engine should start to splut-
ter, and then simply went and faded
out altogether. Well, we had almost got be-
yond mere despair and were almost resigned
to the inevitable- —I mean, looking for the
tent —when who should come along but the
young man in the Desert Sand Buick.
Well, we simply fell on his neck and called
him our long-lost brother, and he merely
took one look inside the bonnet and diag-
nosed the trouble as an absolute complete
blow-out of the carborundum. So there was
simply nothing to be done but to place our
destinies unreservedly in his hands and leave
instructions at the next garage to send out
a rescue party. Well, it was a trifle crowded
in the single-seater, but I don’t think I have
ever enjoyed night driving better. And,
would you believe it, it seems that young
man knows me by sight quite well, and it’s
funny I have never noticed him. It seems
he is a traveller for Hangovers, the voca-
tional experts in the office next to ours, and
he has seen me often.
Well, I think I have told you everything
about our trip that is of interest to a woman.
Oh, I forgot to mention, the first thing I
saw when I went into the garage at home
was the tent. We had clean forgotten to
pack it!


Amusements.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J, C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE VAGABOND KING.
ROYAL: MR. PYM PASSES Bl r .
COMMENCING SATURDAY.
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
TH EATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
1 SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The Royale Syncopators Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
1 c. wTITITa mso n, ltd.,
°• MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT SONG.
ROYAL:
MARGARET BANNERMAN in
OTHER MEN’S WIVES.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
LEON GORDON in
SCANDAL.
A T HEAT R E,
" MELBOURNE.
Proprietor, Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee, E. J. Carroll.
, EVENINGS, 8.15.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, 2.30.
E. J. CARROLL’S NEW ENGLISH DRAMATIC CO.
in .
THE WRECKER.
A Thrilling Railway Mystery Play
By ARNOLD RIDLEY, author of
THE GHOST TRAIN.
Sole Direction E. J. Carroll.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
n MELBOURNE.
THE RIVER PIRATE
With VICTOR McLAGLEN.
AT,SO
EASY VIRTUE
With ISABEL JEANS.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NICOLA.
WORLD’S GREATEST WIZARD.
jyjAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY,
RIN-TIN-TIN
THE WONDER DOG in
The Warner Bros. ’ Drama,
RINTY OF THE DESERT.
You’ll adore Rintv more than ever before.
Box Plan at Allan's and Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790
To Let and For Sale.
TO LET AND FOR SALE.—Beautifully-
furnished City Apartment Home, Mac-
quarie Street, containing Entrance Hall,
Dining- and Living-room, 2 Bedrooms, etc.
Modern in every detail. For further par-
ticulars apply Miss ANDERSON, 14 Bays-
water Road. King’s Cross, Darlinghurst, or
ring F 3631.
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club an ! Two Minutes
front Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
XTbe
New Zealand's
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
rr :
MADE
BRITISH
Perfection
PITS PC RUBBER.
"THE AGE”
Established 1851}.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
A Newspaper in which the spirit of Progress
and Development abounds, and whose forceful
Editorials and Literary features provide a
wealth of .interesting reading—both socially
and politically.
For 74 years this influential household publi-
cation has enjoyed an envious period of pros-
perity, and is an institution firmly established
in the regard of the Victorian people generally.
If you desire to keep closely in touch with
the news of the day, read
“THE AGE,”
whose vigorous articles and great political
principles—with its full and accurate reports
on all subjects having a genuine news value —
have made this publication an outstanding
newspaper in modern journalism.
“THE AGE” publishes over
1,000,000 advertisements
annually.
Price lid. per copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter, post free
within the Commonwealth.
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
JCnuU jfiwwifcb
Ask \bur Jewel Icr
For :
ROTHERHAMS
ENGLISH WATCHES
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Wanderings in Wild Australia
By Sir BALDWIN SPENCER.
K.C.M.G., F.R.S., author of “The
Arunta,” “Across Australia,” etc.
Two vols. Illustrated. 425. net.
• [lmmediately.
Worlds Within Worlds
A Book of Travel Sketches. By
STELLA BENSON. With illustra-
tions by the Author. Bs. 6d. net.
Daily News: “This new volume of essays,
short stories and descriptive ‘pieces’ maintains
Miss Stella Benson’s pinnacle height of achieve-
ment.”
Letters of the Empress Frederick
Edited by the Right Hon.
FREDERICK PONSONBY,
G.C.8., G.C.V.O. With four photo-
gravure portraits. 255. net.
Early Life of Thomas Hardy,
1840-1891
By FLORENCE EMILY HARDY.
With portraits and illustrations.
18s. net.
NEW NOVELS
The Silver Thorn
A book of stories. By HUGH
WALPOLE. Dominions Edition.
Sunday Times : “They delight you by their
fragrance stories which are being enacted
every day and are so rarely told.”
The Spacious Adventures of the
Man in the Street
By EIjMAR O’DUFFY, author of
“King Goshawk and the Birds.”
Empire Library.
Evening Standard : “A deliciously amusing
narrative brilliantly witty.”
What Is Love?
By E. M. DELAFIELD. Empire
Library.
Daily Expiiess: “Miss E. M. Delafield in her
new novel has made an extremely sensitive
and interesting study of love, as the passion
affects four or live different people.”
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
Distinguished Social Life!
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The most overworked soul these days is
Father Christmas. He’s in every toy cave,
and no children’s party is complete without
him. Though he varies in stature and timbre
of voice, Iris cold-weather garments and
hoary beard are the same as he wore 100
years ago to climb down old-world chimneys.
He came to the Free Kindergarten’s tree with
a bulging sack of gifts for the little ones
that made their hearts jump for joy, and also
put in an appearance at the Meerilinga pri-
vate kindergarten and primary school, where
he danced with excited youngsters round a
spangled fir-tree. Carrie Itaynes and her
assistant, Miss Priest, directed the year’s
wind-up. There were songs, games, eurhyth-
mies, an impromptu band and presents for
mothers, fathers and big helpers from the
tree. Bunty Poole was a self-possessed and
sturdy Dionysius in “An Honest Critic.”
Penelope Clifton also had a big pari for
a small girl, and did it very nicely. Other
clever youngsters were Tony Davy, Mar-
jory Boas and Marjory Clarke, as Tyltyl,
Mytyl and the Fairy in an adapted version
of Maeterlinck’s “Blue Bird.” They all
seemed to love doing their parts.
Marjorie Hodgson arranged an original
and particularly attractive evening pro-
gramme at the Repertory Club rooms. Shaw’s
skit on melodrama, “Passion, Poison and
Petrifaction,” read with actions but without
stage accessories,, kept the audience verging
between chuckles and shrieks of mirth. Mrs.
Iv. Bruce was Lady Magnesia. Sutro’s
pathetic “Man on the Kerb” was delicately
handled by Marjorie Hodgson and Graham
Poock. Other contributors were Florence
Besley, Dorothy Mark, Daisy Swan and Mrs.
Anderson. Mrs. Bob Buchanan accompanied
vocal items.
Another Westralian songbird has won
glory—lrene Stancliffe, pictured alongside,
who was awarded the championship in a
Welsh Con-
test when the
finalists from
each State
competed re-
cently in Mel-
bourne. She
Avas born in
England, but
has lived here
since she was
f o u r. Her
first public
success was
the winning of
a broadcasting
contest three
y c a r s ago,
when she re-
ceived a big
majority o f
votes from
listeners, and
in the interim
several musi-
cal-festival medals have come her way.
Miss Stancliffe is a coloratura soprano,
and has a special liking and aptitude
for operatic music. Frank Robertson
has been her only teacher. She is a re-
markably popular lass, and everyone is
pleased with her success.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Life moves at the moment to a rhythm of
speech-days, Christmas gift parties and
bazaars. One of the most successful of the
bazaars was run by the Lady Victoria Bux-
ton Girls’ Club and opened by Lady Hore-
Ruthven. Her Ex. also presented the Red
Cross Society’s Christmas gifts to invalided
soldiers at the various hostels and 'hospitals ;
was at the Legacy Club’s Christmas treat
for children of deceased soldiers (nearly 500
small guests), and at the Anzac Hostel’s
Christmas party, an annual affair run by
four faithful friends of incapacitated soldiers
• —Mrs. Frank Toms, Mrs. Dudley Hay-
ward, Mrs. Michael Hawker and Mrs.
Charles Downer. They play bridge with the
men once a fortnight.
The Mission to Seamen’s luck in striking
a sweltering day for the party on the
Orford was less evil than it looked, for the
Outer Harbor was a degree or two cooler
than town, and the liner’s deck was the
coolest spot in the harbor. The Orient Co.
threw open the ship and provided tea, and
the committee of the Mission to Seamen
issued please-bring-this-card-with-you invita-
tions and collected 2s. a head at the foot of
the gangway. Captain Owens and Mrs. F. J.
Fisher (president of the feminine branch of
the Mission’s committee) did the honors.
Lady Hore-Ruthven has presented prizes
at the Presbyterian Girls’ College, the
Methodist Ladies’ College and Woodlands, and
probably no one will be more grateful than
she for the inertia into which we relapse
for the Christmas-New Year season. The
Governor has done his bit at the Uni. Com-
memoration, prize-givings at Prince Alfred,
St. Peter’s and Scotch colleges, and a party
for the Blinded Soldiers’ Association.
The Prince of Wales Theatre was ablock
and agog for the two performances by Nora
Stewart’s pupils, who acted an adaptation
of Hans Andersen’s “Sea Maiden.” supple-
mented by various divertissements. Most
of the youngest set (some of them very
young) were on the stage at one time or
another and acquitted themselves admirably
especially Margery Clayton, the Mermaid
and Karen Henstridge, the Witch. Staring
and dressing—the latter designed by Miss
Stewart and her mother—were very effective.
The Moldavia’s passengers included the
A. M. Gudmores and their two daughters,
Lily and Eva Waite and Mrs. F. Magarey.
The contoversy over the North-terrace
elms has broken out again—the City Fathers,
blandly oblivious to the fact that only a year
ago ratepayers expressed themselves very
definitely against removal, are again discuss-
ing the subject. Another projected removal
easier to contemplate calmly is that of the
railings round Victoria Square.
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
At the Women’s Club, Mrs. E. B. Harris,
the president, who, with daughter Noela, is
just back from a two and a half years’ tour
abroad, entertained the club’s executive com-
mittee at luncheon. Mrs. Harris wore fioral
georgette with black straw hat, and the
guests included Mrs. Sydney Martin, Mrs.
Trottei’, Mrs. Warren, Mrs. J. P. Peterson,
Mrs. Hammond and Mrs. Aubrey Thompson.
Christmas bells and wedding bells have
been cheerfully intermingled, two weddings
of special interest having taken place. That
of pretty Margaret, second daughter of the
M. G. Daymens of Indooroopilly, to Lieut.
Charles Carr Clark, R.A.N., son of C.
Clarks of East
Talgai, took
place at St.
Andrew’s. In-
dooroopilly.
Blue agapan-
tlius and hy-
drangeas deco-
rated the kirk,
with posies of
primroses and
yellow sna p-
(lragons for the
guests’ pews.
The bride, pic-
tured here in
everyday
attire, was in
ivory satin,
the long, tight
sleeves being
embroidered in
seed pearls.
The bouffant
skirt was
ankle-length, and the Spanish-lace veil was
lent by Mrs. Wessie Walsh, of Southport.
Water-lilies, stephanotis and Cecil Brunner
roses made the bouquet. Mrs. A. S. Roe,
in old-gold crbpe de Chine, was matron
of honor, and Nell Haymen and Mary Clark,
in old-gold crepe de Chine, and little Judith
Roe, in frilly white georgette, ’maided. Blue
hydrangeas and delphiniums were their bou-
quets.
Some 1800 school kiddies sang .at the
Exhibition grounds, accompanied by an
orchestra of 100 performers. W. L. S.
Collings wielded the baton from a dais decked
with flags, Edward Cousins played a cornet
solo, and there was a big roll-up of the
public.
Agnes, daughter of the late Hubert Finney
and of Mrs. Finney, Herston, married Major
Wolff, at one time P.S. to Sir John Good-
win, at St. Paul’s kirk. The bride faced
the altar in ivory Chinese _ satin beaded in
Richelieu design. Her veil was of liand-
broideyed Brussels net, and the Court train,
appliqued in camellias, wag lined with pink.
Stephanotis and tuberoses made the bouquet.
Dell Mullin and Nell Grellin, in oval-green
French taffetas and picture-hats of opal-
green tulle, were the maids. Major Wolff
wore the uniform of the Royal Welsh Fusi-
liers, in which regiment he holds a com-
mission, and the 26th Battalion formed, a
guard of honor, the bride and groom passing
through the porch under a canopy of crossed
swords. The kirk was decorated with frangi-
panni and pink and white lotus lilies.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The Royal Yacht Club Ball, at the Con-
tinental, had a very effective and appropriate
background, the ballroom being hung with
pictured yachts and festooned with nautical
emblems of every sort. Supper was served
in the new club-room. The official party
included Club-commander and Mrs. Owen
Tinning and their pretty daughter Jean, the
W. P. Beddomes, Naval Commandant and
Mrs. McFarlane, Military Commandant and
Mrs. Cox Taylor, the J. B. Rycrofts, Mr. and
Mrs. J. Boyes, Mr. and Mrs. F. Johnston
and Mrs. Norman Walker and her son
Ronald.
The guests who rolled up at the Lyceum
Club at the invitation of Mrs. Henry Dobson
to farewell Mr. Ely before his return to
the Cold Country had an unexpected treat.
The little fair lady who, with her husband.
Beckx Daly, was among the guests, was not
recognised at first as Edith Ilarrhy, the song-
composer. She played her own accompani-
ments, and sang charmingly. The children’s
songs she sang were well known to many
parents of musically-inclined youngsters —
we Tassies are strong on Australian-made
music.
At a meeting of the Women’s Non-party
League, Mrs. Edith Water worth, Mrs. Bas-
tow and Miss Overoil were appointed dele-
gates to the Berlin Congress of the Inter-
national Women’s Suffrage Alliance, to take
place in June next. As Mrs. Bastow speaks
German, she should be a particularly useful
member.
The Royal Auto-car Club celebrated its
first birthday with a very lively dance at
the Masonic Hall, which was nicely titi-
vated. President and Mrs. Weller Arnold
received the guests, and Margaret O’Grady
came with a party.
The James Millers’ only daughter Mar-
jorie walked up the aisle of St. Andrew’s
Ivirk to keep her troth with C. E. Findlay
in cloth of gold and silver lame, tight as
to bodice, and fitted into the hip-line, with
a ruched effect. Her head-dress of fine tulle
was bound with a fillet of brilliants, and
flowed, after passing swathe-fashion under
the chin, to form the train. She carried a
sheaf of madonna lilies. Three very blonde
girls, Jean Tinning, Bobbie Robertson and
Doreen Ellison, and a small train-bearer,
Margaret Bailey, attended the brunette bride.
Their frocks were of larkspur-blue georgette,
topped by quaint Napoleouesque-blue felt
hats, and they carried pink posies.


THE GREATEST GIFT OF ALL
What shall I give?
In thinking of gifts., do you re-
member the most precious gift of
all —good health?
Good health means good blood,
for the blood is the fountain stream
of life. It gives strength, confidence,
happiness, the irresistible charm of
radiant health. Everyone knows
that a clear skin,
rosy cheeks, red
lips, and well-
moulded figure
are nature’s
signs of ad-
equate healthy
blood, and that
pale cheeks,
bloodless lips,
d
and thin limbs denote poor and
anaemic blood conditions.
This year remember yourself and
the vital gift of health. If blood
poverty is spoiling your appear-
ance, or you have lost blood through
operation, accident or illness, pur-
chase a iar of KARNA VITA
LIVER EXTRACT and try the new
blood and body-building treatment
that has convinced doctors the world
overL One jar
will convince you.
Kama Vita is
easily taken, and
costs 8/- per jar
from all chem-
ists, or if unob-
tainable locally,
8/9 post free
from us.
Send to-day for free literature. Dept. B.
KARNA VITA COMPANY, 226 a George Street, Sydney.
K39a.
FOR HOLIDAY PICNICS
KRAFT CHEESE is a complete food, giving strength
and energy for full enjoyment of the out of doors.
It cuts into golden slices or appetising cubes, and does
not get oily or hard, no matter how hot the weather is.
IT IS MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Sold by weight or in
1-lb. Cartons by all
Grocers and Store-
keepers.
Afl
Made in Australia by
Kraft Walker Cheese
Co. Pty., Ltd., at
Riverside Avenue, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.
THE GIFT OF LIES.
By- HENRY MOSTYN.
THE truck thudded to a halt
against something surely too rigid to
be another van. Came the clank of
heavy metal, a blast on the whistle and the
sound —but not, alas, the sense —of move-
ment. Suspicion became dread certainty.
The tarpaulin covering the goods in the
truck was wrenched aside, ana a sleek head
stuck out.
The guard’s van was passing at the
moment, and the occupant, standing on the
step, waved an ironical farewell to the dumb-
founded face. “Sorry,' Dig,” called the offi-
cial cheerily. “This is where you git off.
Merry Christmas!”
.Tames Fraser —to the police and other
intimates “Slick” —clambered down from the
truck and surveyed the empty track, cursing
fluently. Had ever a man, he wondered, had
such filthy luck as he in the last few days.
It was bad enough getting shoved out of
Brisbane just as the Christmas harvest was
coming on, though that had happened before,
the police having a tiresome habit of “clean-
ing up the city” just before the “saps” came
down. Still, if McKee hadn't seen him
finalising matters with an old gentleman for
the sale of a half-share in Centennial Park he
might have dodged it this year. But that
wasn’t half the worst of it. A cove, after
being driven from his natural haunts, goes
and picks out a nice little one-horse coast
town where they’re holding a nice little face
meeting and the pickings look good, and who
does he run into but McKee, and just at
the moment when the desposit on the Cribb
Island frontage was being paid over. And
then on top of that the boob goes and tacks
Slick’s own tenner on to the amount he
reckons he’s lost, and McKee frisks him for
that! Stone, motherless broke, and with
12 hours’ grace to find himself somewhere
else, what’s a bloke to do but jump the rat-
tler? And this is what happens; shunted
off with a truck-full of cow-feed and cream-
cans !
He looked at the name on the single board
which denoted the existence of a siding.
“Croker’s Flat.” “Yek,” he muttered bit-
terly. “Likewise Fraser’s Bust.” He
kicked a piece of ballast savagely, sending
it skimming across the line.
Meanwhile, what was to be done? Walk
for it, or wait for the next train? His sen-
sitive spirit rebelled against walking—a
mode of progression he had long since dis-
carded. But did trains ever run in these
God-forsaken parts? There mightn’t be
another for a week. Just as well to have
a look in the truck first, he decided. There
might be somebody’s Christmas larder in it.
He swung himself on to the buffer _ and
dragged away the tarpaulin. A single
glance and he dropped the canvas disgustedly.
“A little bit o’ rocksalt goes a long way,”
he murmured. “But not ‘inside. Walkin’
has it, old son.”
He paused in the act of descending as
his ears caught the sound of wheels. Climb-
ing on to the side of the waggon he searched
the landscape, then settled himself comfort-
ably on the edge with a low whoop of joy.
Round a spur of the hillside came a waggon-
ette and pair, and in the waggonette sat
salvation. There was no douht about it.
“The original and only model from which
all others were cast,” he murmured gleefully.
“The configuration of the particular bit of
country’s strange; but the soil’s good. I’d
know that type of whisker anywhere. Here’s
where we eat, sleep and are happy again,
and maybe get rid of some nice oil shares
out Pinkenba way.”
Meanwhile the victim had backed his
trap to the side of the truck. Turning round
he surveyed suspiciously the dapper figure
seated on the end. “Gooday,” he said unen-
thusiastically.
“G’day,” answered Slick.
“Travellin’?” asked the hairy one.
“I was,” said Slick with just the right
tinge of bitterness. “Broke,” he explained
laconically in answer to the look of inquiry.
“‘Couldn't get a job in
town, so jumped tli'
rattler. Went to sleep
an’ woke up side-
tracked here.”
Whiskers nodded
s y m p a t h e tically.
“Work’s ter’ble ‘ard
ter git,” he agreed un-
helpfully, and lapsed
into silence.
“Where am I, any-
way?” demanded Slick.
"How far’s the near-
est town?”
“Twenty mile up th’
line,” he was told.
Ai.ostly farms round ’ere.” There was a
pause, while he eyed Slick s spruce attire
doubtfully. “Tell yer what,” he offered
uncertainly. “If yer like ter gimme a and
ter load this stuff I’ll give yer a lift as
fur art my place, an’ a feed wVen yer git
there.” ,
Slick peeled his coat off. Work was a
repellent exercise associated with unpleasant
memories; but if necessary he could do it.
Moreover, his last misunderstanding with one
of Detective McKee’s colleagues had been of
such recent date as not to allow him to get
entirely out of condition; so much so, that
the whiskered one had to admit that for a
“city feller” he wasn’t half bad.
By the time the five miles to the farm had
been covered they had swapped names _ and
occupations—the latter, of course, entirely
fictitious on Slick’s part—-and Slick had
graciously accepted an invitation to stay
the night and share a bit of the morrow’s
Christmas dinner. Everything was going
smoothly and according to plan.
“Slick swung round on her with burning eyes. ‘Know him!’ he laughed harshly. 'I
should reckon I did!’”
Mrs. Jones, fat, placid and motherly, also
measured well up to specifications. The whole
thing was so easy that Slick would have
been bored had not the tenets of his pro-
fession forbidden it when there was business
to be done. Just what form that business
would take he hadn’t quite decided; but it
was crying out to be done. A glance at the
house had convinced him that it wasn’t worth
the risk of “inspection” except as a last
resort. Slick didn’t favor such crude methods
as burglary, in any case. There seemed to
be only the two of them there, so that more
or less ruled out poker and the three cards.
He sounded his host about it during tea.
“Yeh,” said the old man. “They’s only
th’ two of us. Some’ow it didn’t seem much
use workin’ th’ place after George left. We
on’y wants enough ter live on, an’ we gits
that.” The prospects would have looked dis-
couraging had Slick been less experienced at
the game. “Enough to live on” was an
elastic term, and there might have been sav-
ings accumulated before “George” destroyed
the incentive. The question was, when had
George left —and where?
“Son of yours?” he queried politely.
The old man nodded; then, as the wife left
the room, he bent towards Slick. ”Th’ on’y
one,” he whispered hoarsely. "Went ter tli’
war an’ we never ’card of 'im agen. Fair broke
th’ old woman up, it did. She can't, ’ardly
bear ter ’ear ’is name.” He ended abruptly
and stared unseeingly at the floor.
Slick was only faintly interested. His
mind was working rapidly. Since the war.
That was a fair time. Still, they’d be
saving for him while he was over there,
surely, and until hope of his return died.
Yes, the patch was worth working.
He kept the conversation going well that
night. Skill in entertaining, an attractive
personality and an unerring sense of the
right chord to strike were part of his stock-
in-trade. When the old people finally got
to bed —long after their usual hour—they
had altered his location from the cart-shed
to a couch in the living-room, and bade him
good-niglit almost affectionately.
By the time the Christmas dinner came
round he was firmly ensconced as an old
friend. A real, old-fashioned Christmas din-
ner it was, too; the sort that sent Slick’s
memory groping down dim lanes of time
where it wasn’t supposed to go. He was
annoyed with himself and with the thoughts
which had been crowding into his head all
day. He had done nothing yet; hadn’t even
prepared the ground. Either he was getting
sloppy or the Christmas feeling was getting
him down. He was preoccupied and uneasy
all through the meal, and even found him-
self pitying the old couple. Their loneliness
was evidently intensified by the day. Yet
it was pathetic to see how they tried to hide
their sorrow and entertain their guest until
the very end of the meal.
Then, when the last spoonful of pudding
had vanished, the woman left the room, evi-
dently in accordance with some time-
honored custom. While she was away the
old man filled the glasses. She was back
in a moment, carrying a photograph. The
old man looked apologetically at Slick.
“Christmas an’ ’is birthday,” he explained
simply; “we alius drinks ter George.”
The mother had set the portrait down
in the middle iof the table, and was stand-
ing, the tears streaming down her face,
clutching her glass tightly. Slick, rather
bored with the whole proceedings and
heartily sick of George, stood up, glass in
hand. The movement brought the photo
within his range of vision. His hand shot
forward, and he picked it up, holding it
before his eyes and glaring at the features.
“Strewth!” he muttered hoarsely. “You!”
Mrs. Jones rushed round the table and
clutched him by the arm. “What is it?”
she cried. “Oh, for God’s sake tell me!
Did yer..,.do yer know ’im?’
Slick swung round on her with burning,
bitter eyes. “Know him!” he laughed
harshly. “I should reckon I did!”
■ She half staggered, half fell, into a chair,
and leaned forward, gripping the edges of the
table, her anguished eyes searching his face.
“Tell me,” she whispered, “yer—yer
wasn’t over there with 'im, was yer. ,
didn’t see ’im—die?” Before he could ( P J
she rushed on in a torrent °f w °, s :, »
o' course yer couldn't ’aye ! J hat sth P
that ’urts —not knowin’. ’E must be
or ’e’d ’ve come 'ome surely. But were uia
’e die, an’ ’ow? Did ’e die brave an decen .
If I on’y knoo someone that knoo im,
someone that saw it ’appen. We ? eard so
much about ’em over there, an e . I 'T US -_ 1 .
bit wild alius, though a good lad-—th so
that goes wrong easy. I’m ter I ble,
’e mightn’t ’ve died decent an. fightin . J-h y
wus others over there that disappeared an
no one ever ’eard of ’em agen—on y rumors.
But ’e couldn’t ’ve bin among them, e
couldn't! But if I on’y could find some-
body that knoo.” She leapt up and seized
his arms again. “Fer God’s sake, sn
pleaded, “do yer know anythin .
“Hush, mother,” chided the old man; but
he, too, leant forward, trembling with
eagerness. , ,
Slick had had time, while she was speak-
ing, to pull himself together; time also
to scrap one course of action and decide upon
another. “Sit down,” he said gently, ‘an
I’ll tell you.” .
Fluent and accomplished liar as he was,
never had lie painted such a word-picture
as he did then, when he dressed the poor
ere'ature he had known in Pentridge as the
Pimp—a human pariah, a dingo—in the
clothes of a hero. Keeping his eyes well
averted from the photo, he plunged on, adding
honor to courage and courage to greatness
of soul, till he achieved the grand finale —;
and, incidentally, the most splendid action ot
his life —when he covered with virtues the lag
who out of sheer meanness of soul and to
curry favor with the warders had got him
twenty days’ solitary with a lying tale. Nor
did his invention fail him when he came
to the end. He spoke vaguely of the likeli-
hood of a direct hit with a shell rendering
identification impossible.
He raised his glass. “To the whitest man
I ever knew,” he said. “But not you, you
swine; not you,” he added savagely under
his breath as his eyes met the shifty ones
of the portrait. It seemed to him that they
mocked him, flickering with gloating triumph.
For a moment he had a wild urge to
retract; to tell them exactly and brutally
just what their idol was, and Avhere he was.
Then he caught sight of the mother’s face,
and recoiled before the blinding light of
pride which flashed from her eyes. Suddenly
he realised to the full what he had done,
and caught his breath at the miracle, a little
afraid. Then, while they stood on either
side of him, straight and erect and pridefu!.
he drank the toast, his eyes, savage and
bitter, locked with the furtive ones that
slanted from the picture.
He didn’t know what made him do it. At
the thought of how this crawler would be
deified, he wished, with a wild gust of anger,
that he hadn’t; when he caught the mother’s
eyes and saw the new straightness of the
father’s shoulders he was somehow glad he
had. And when they tried to thank him for
his lies he hated himself, and then, and most
of all the chance that had brought, him there.
He refused the substantial “loan” the
old man offered, likewise the same thing
termed a Christmas box. That would have
been direct payment for his lies, and he
somehow shrank from that. But he sold
them scrip and frontages without scruple
or reserve, and left considerably the richer.
The other had been sentiment; this was
business.
Blind.
Blind now, and pastured on the upland grass,
Kept only for the sturdy, patient plough,
Where furrows climb the long hill’s swarthy
brow,
She seems quite happy—till her team-mates
pass.
She seems quite happy where the grey dove
calls,
And the brown pheasant winds his goblin horn;
She knows their voices—all the soft scents
borne
On winds whereon her black mane lifts and
falls.
But when the team goes by, through her long
frame
A quiver ripples, and she lifts her head.
Vibrating to that muffled, fourfold tread,
And seems to wait for her familiar name.
They halt before they make the steep ascent;
The tall grey calls her, and she whinnies
back—
She used to pull beside him up that track,
The clicking bars a soft accompaniment.
She hears the driver whistling a shrill tune
And hears him curse the nearside plunging
bay,
Nor does she turn when there has died away
The last frail echo in the golden noon.
She ran there as a filly, swift and shy;
Hers should be halcyon days Yet who can say?
Why does she blunder to the fence and neigh,
Seeking to follow when the team goes by?
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


It’s grand to be a squatter
And sit upon a post,
And watch your little ewes
lambs
A-giving up the ghost.
1
It’s grand to be a “cockie”
With wife and kids to keep,
And find an all-wise Providence
Has mustered all your sheep.
Collected Verse of A. B. Paterson, Angus and
Robertson, Sydney,
ďf
UT it’s certainly much grander to be sure that all your
sheep,
When grass is dry and fibrous, coarse and rank,
Are improving in appearance and are growing wool to keep
Your balance growing also at the bank.
It is quite a simple matter, for what the jumbucks need
Is the protein that such grasses always lack.
You must supplement their fodder with some good,
nutritious feed,
And so bring strength and good condition back.
There is danger in dry feeding from the fibre in the grass,
Impaction, balling~up and other things;
But with “Meggitt’s” as a supplement such dangers quickly pass,
Through the laxative effect that linseed brings.
Don’t leave your sheep to Providence, but nurture them instead—
In doing so the market you may lead.
With some bags of Meggitt’s Sheep Nuts safely stored within a shed
You have just the Sheep Insurance that you need.
' %-M
• v’. *?
jel
ur:“*
SioS
If
-®?V
‘&K?
t®
Pi
M
w*
m
• %gmm
r <
vs, s'
MS®
sms
resfegas
m
;-‘t.>.• *tit : ti.* m -H* * •<•'V\,' . " • • ;•/,* •<*,.•*’
.v; &■'&"%s■'> fS*~& 1 * if i 1 "•••■• U V
■tf 1
/
> /
*1 Li
Km
>. '••' '<: - V-'
, r'-Xi'.v'"'' '• V'.' - : r • •'■■•.'•';■; ■
* , -V" -V'- 7'*y r* .
- • ■ /.i ; %■' V .
SI
S3B
i-'f-y :‘;if '
MEGGITT’S LINSEED SHEEP NUTS
Cost Little Earn Much
Mil
JZimited
HEAD OFFICE, 26 KING ST., SYDNEY
\UorKs Parramatta, N SAU • Melbourne, Victoria • Port Adelaide.S A
tWTi
C Vie bog on the bag
guarantees quality*
'yAe boy on the
quamjitees qualify
COMMONWEALTH DISTRIBUTION:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Meggitt
Limited, 26 King Street,
Sydney ; and all Pastoral
Houses or Agents.
VICTORIA: New Zealand Loan
and Mercantile Agency Co.,
Ltd., Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Branches.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder,
Smith and Co., Ltd., Currie
Street, Adelaide, and Branches.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder,
Smith and Co., Ltd., St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, and
Branches. Sub-distributors,
Win. Adams and Co., Ltd.,
Perth.
TASMANIA: F. W. Heritage and
Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart and
Launceston.
QUEENSLAND: All Pastoral
Houses and Agents; also Den-
hams, Ltd., Brisbane; Denham
Bros., Ltd., Rockhampton;
Cummins and Campbell, Ltd.,
Townsville and Cairns;
Corser and Co., Maryborough.
mm
«,• .• ufc'
%
• / . .. -'l'
V l '' .'J,
•v ; ( ~ •
/ * v.
.- •)
• ■*
i
mm
m
i *v *«*
vA
»•'.-' '-V. VS«t •
>.t
life
&
4©
•■»* V ,S> - ■ l«£.^
<*W?
iC'Vv ■'
3*
•Vi
>'h
fc v i
31
if/*: 1
'A|»
••t .'•• i :V-
-f**
.. *
4 * .<* .; •• 1 » A
• • *w- r s •* 7 *v * •***
\. -•-, ✓ • <, £?*'**'• .*'*•" v‘ .. • ; VjV’£>£s^. ;2 r-h V*3?


THE WORLD HAS
the proof
ST'N
SEN*
r
£
f
7/,
i**
When the Whippet was first in-
troduced thousands hailed it as
the light car they had dreamed
of owning Now more than
200,000 owners know that all the
claims made for it were true—
that it really brought to the low-
price field a car possessing advan-
tages previously obtainable only
at much higher prices. Its low
centre of gravity made possible
speed with safety—without sacri-
fice of road clearance. Its large
4-wheel brakes were the first re-
cognition of the need of added
safety for light car drivers. It
brought speed, fast acceleration,
easy control, quiet operation and
such dependable quality features
as force-feed lubrication and the
silent timing chain.
The world has had the proof of
Whippet quality. Is there any
reason why you should not own
the best light car? See the
Whippet Four today—Drive it,
without obligation.
See also the low-priced Whippet Six models with 7-
bearing crankshaft and Invar-strut pistons. You
will like their operation.
FOURS
Whippet
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED, 148 Casllereagh Street, SYDNEY.
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY., LIMITED, 117-21 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LIMITED, Break fast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, Franklin Street, ADELAIDE.
ADAMS’ MOTORS, LIMITED, 442 Murray Street, PERTH.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LIMITED, 53-56 Bathurst Street, HOBART.
WIL LY S
OVER L A N D FINE MOTOR CARS


PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars ot this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
In Infancy.
Food
Beg. Trade Mark.
When mother is unable
to nurse baby, the best food
is fresh cows’ milk, suitably
modified. Benger’s has
proved itself to be one of
the best of milk modifiers.
Send /or Benger’s Booklet, post free .
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,
350, George Street, SYDNEY.
%
JL
dd
DynamicSO Uni.
only £lO/10/-
HOW you
can have a Magnavox
Dynamic Power Speaker
for your A. C. set. The same
speaker that is used as hull t-
in equipment by many set
manufacturers. If you use
a power tube you need this
power speaker to get the
finest reception Now dem-
onstrating.
FIT A UNIT IN
YOUR PRESENT
CABINET
IMPROVE AN OLD SET-
PERFECT THE NEW.
fd
f
Aristocrat
£ lB/101 -
ASK YOUR NEAREST
RADIO DEALER TO
DEMONSTRATE.
Australian Patent
No. 7225.
0%
V
•<*s
s
$uP
Ih*
CAM
Britain’s
Motor
Masterpiece
In Mayfair and the Shires, across the plains of
India and the,, desert tracks of Iraq, in the sun-
shine of Australia, or on the African veldt
everywhere where cars are used you will find
the Sunbeam.
Not only in mechanical efficiency but also in
coachwork of fine appearance and luxurious
comfort, Sunbeam leads the way.
Its high road speed, ease of control, security
of braking and stability under all conditions
ensure a performance of exceptionally high
standard.
The coachwork combines unusual beauty of line
with roomy accommodation.
Sunbeam cars for the Australian market are
specially built with the necessary ground clear-
ance, springing and cooling to ensure perfect
performance on the roughest roads and tracks
and in the most tropical heat.
Complete catalogue will be sent on application
to our Australian agents, or direct to our Export
Department.
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, LTD., 91-97 Flinders Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. ARTHUR BALES, LTD., 367-371 Murray Street, Perth.
RASCII MOTORS, LTD., 69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l, England.
Cables; Head, Office and Works:
“Subeamoco,” London. Wolverhampton, England.
Agents for Egypt: MIDDLE EAST MOTOR AGENCY, 3 Kon-Elo Dick, Alexandria.
C.T.P.65
Damn Henry!
THE STORY OF TWO FIRES AND A MAN WHO FELL BETWEEN THEM,
BY PATRICIA BUCKLEY.
A BROWN suburb Beverley-crescent was,
too near town to be popular; at the
same time it had been a heavy loss
to landlords who had failed to please the rich
and particular. In Beverley-crescent life
moved monotonously, noisily; babies and
wireless sets, gramophones, lawn-mowers, and
men who sold prawns and whitebait all
played their parts lustily. The houses were
dusty and brown and inconvenient; a hor-
rible sameness of sun-porches, Avhcre the
washing flapped for days, of brown smoked
lawns and untidy beds of vivid marigolds.
For seven years Martin Lindsay had rented
No. 28; for seven years he had looked from
his window on to a poster that shouted
“Radford’s Sell Furniture on Easy Terms” ;
for seven years he had gazed beyond the
brick-kilns to the city that was his first love.
Not that he had never quarrelled Avith his
love. He hated the monotony of his days;
he hated his clerk’s salary, his clerk’s pro-
spects ; he loathed the seven-floor room Avhere
daily at 9 a.m. he hung up his hat and
overcoat on a broken hook and daily at five
o’clock reached them down again to go forth
into the sixteen hours of freedom that lay
between one day’s work and the next.
“Dull chap, Lindsay,” remarked his
friends.
“Dull? Yes; but thinks a good deal of
himself, too.” This because Martin fore-
bore to shout himself hoarse at football
matches, to sit up all night listening to wire-
less reports of the latest record flight, to
frequent racecourses and cabarets. In short,
he was indifferent to every recreation dear to
the hearts of the city-dwellers. And the
city-dAvellers knew nothing of the city that
Avas Martin’s first love ; they did not know
that this little clerk, Avith his stumbling walk
and his brown eyes frozen in a dream, was
making love to the city every time he plod-
ded through its unresponsive streets.
But the city-dwellers did know and admire
Mildred, Avho was Martin’s second love, and,
incidentally, his wife. Ah yes, his wife!
Martin knew that he must never forget this;
he must always remember that at six o’clock
every night his duty lay at home, at No. 28
Beverley-crescent, where Mildred had his din-
ner waiting, and where fire and evening
paper were his solace.
But to-night Mildred had no dinner wait-
ing for him. It Avas a holiday, and Martin
had had a wonderful day. This morning it
had happened, and it was the inspiration, the
urge, the goad to action for which. Martin
had waited during seven years. For Martin
was going to write a novel —oh yes, he had
never doubted that! It was to be a great
novel, an overwhelming philosophy of life,
wrested from the tumult of his thoughts.
The world would recognise him, and with
recognition he would be no longer a clerk
in an insurance office. Instead, lie would
be the distinguished author of his age. Fame
would be his. The bookshop on the Quay
would devote a window to his works.
He could see it now—the gleaming plate-
glass window, a hundred copies of his book
in dull blue covers, and his own name emblaz-
oned over all! For him there would be the
sugared diet of critics’ praise and a coun-
try’s acclamatiofi.
All this had been his dream during
seven years, achievement of which he had
put off from day to day.
This morning he had risen early with fire
in his veins. For once he Avas unappalled
by the cheerlessness of the house—this was
before Mildred had lit the stove; before she
had swept away his cigarette-ash spilt so
carelessly the night before. Lie knew at last
that this was the day of days, not because
the city-dwellers held holiday, not because
the bowling-greens were opening, but because
to-day he would bring to life the creatures
of liis imagination with whom lie had toiled
and suffered through all the years that had
gone before.
All day Avork had gone well, very well.
Mildred was away; at six she returned to
dress, for dinner and the theatre—a holiday
Mildred this who tapped at his door in a
yellow taffeta evening dress and the beads
he had bought her from the jeweller’s in the
Square; a wistful, beautiful little wife who
accepted gently the secondary position to
w’hich Martin constantly relegated her.
"Martin, can’t you come with us?” she
begged. “Henry has tickets for the Princess,
and I would enjoy myself so much better
if you were there.”
Martin laughed carelessly because he had
felt a sudden irritation. It was not Henry
who had suggested his company, he felt sure
of that. Henry was Mildred’s brother, a
prosperous, interfering, outspoken fellow
with an absurd affection for his sister and a
ridiculous suspicion that she was neglected.
Damn Henry! Why should Henry worry
about him?
He kissed Mildred half apologetically.
“There, child —I haven’t seen you look so
pretty for years. Run off and forget your
crusty old husband who won’t take a holi-
day.”
And Mildred had gone—readily enough,
he thought.
He settled to his solitary tea. sardines and
tinned pineapple—^-little cause to linger over
that!
Seven o’clock eight ten. And noth-
ing- to show that in this firelit room hearts
Avere torn with passion under the flying pen
of a dull-eyed little clerk. Once the rasping
shriek of a fire-engine cut through the dark-
ness; once Martin gave a queer little start
as a burning coal fell with a thud on the
hearth. Nothing else. At half-past eleven
the pen fell from fingers suddenly grown
listless. To-morrow he would Avrite again
and to-morroAv and to-morrow, End-
less vistas of triumphant work stretched
before him, and at the end success and,
strangely enough, Mildred.
After all, he discovered, this was the
thought that had been with him all night—
Mildred was the coveted prize that lay yet
beyond his grasp. During the seven years
of his marriage he had forfeited his Avife
for a dream. But this should be the first
day of his second Avooing, his second winning.
Mildred would be home soon....why not go
to meet her—they could have supper some-
where?
Obeying an impulse he dressed quickly
and hurried out, past the painted shadows
of the trees at his gate, into a deserted
street. Only then a feeling of discomfort
began to tug at his mind. Hastening his
steps, he gazed up uncomfortably. There
was a strange glow over the roofs and in the
clouds a redness like blood.
A fire-engine hustled past, its shrill clamor
receding in the distance. At the corner were
groups of people. A small boy detached
himself from the crowd.
“Boy!”—Martin heard himself speaking
harshly, breathlessly—“what is it? What
has happened?”
The boy resented the sudden grip on his
shoulder, but, true to his instincts, was
over-ready Avith information. “A fire, sir.
At the Opera House. It started sudden, and
there was a panic. You should have seen
the rush!” His face was ecstatic with
remembrance. “Like wild animals. And a
woman was killed. I saw ’em carry her out.
She had a yellow dress, all scorched....
Oee!” he broke off. “that fellow’s a sprinter !”
But Martin was far beyond earshot,
running wildly, his breath coming in gasps,
his heart thumping out: “She had a yellow
dress... .killed.. . .all scorched.”
The Opera House at last! A gaping
crowd, the firemen’s hoses still playing, the
building stretching gaunt arms to the sky!
Martin had found a policeman, and was
thumping his arm senselessly.
“The woman,” he almost shouted —“killed.
She had a yellow dress —she was my wife!
Where is she? Where is she, man?”
The policeman answered with ponderous I
gravity. “They have taken the injured to
the hospital, sir l . But you won’t mind my
arm—will you? I don’t min'd it being pom-
melled black and blue!”
His arm? What was the man saying?
The hospital, a mile or more away. Martin
had started to run again: then he stopped
short. Of course. Henry. There would be
news for him at home. He must hurry, hurry.
Then he could telephone the hospital.
Back through the endless length of Bever-
ley-crescent. There was still a light burning
in his room. The fire had sunk to a dull
glow; it reminded him of the street, the
crowd, the awful sky, like blood.
He was at the telephone dialing wildly.
“Yes. yes. Is that the hospital? Wrong
number?”
Back to the hall again. Henry should
have come to him : it Avas his right to knoAv.
Damn Henry!
Back next to his own study; and there
on the table he saw the sheets of his writing.
There it lay, a thick pile of papers, his [
day’s Avork.
lie was seized with sudden fury. Mildred
—Mildred was killed, and it Avas his fault!
He had refused to go with her; his wretched
novel had meant more to him. Well, it had
cost him his wife!
Desperately he seized the manuscript, flung
it into the grate ; then, suddenly steadied, lie
watched the sheets curl, blacken and sl&wly
burn. Even as he did so he was loathing
himelf for his selfishness.
A quick step in the hall. Someone was
standing in the door.
Mildred! Mildred in a yelloAv taffeta
evening dress, not scorched. Mildred, his
wife!
He listened dumbly; disjointed sentences |
pierced his brain. “So sorry, darling, I’m j
late. We didn’t go. .. .didn’t g 0.... didn’t
go! The baby was ill.”
Now Mildred Avas looking at him queerly.
“Why, Martin, what is the matter?”
He tried to speak clearly, sanely. “There
was a fire at the Opera House,” he said.
“A woman was killed in the panic. I Avas
told she wore a yellow dress”....
“Martin, you old silly!” Her face was
very close to his, her voice caressed him.
“Were you worried?”
He stood for a moment as if uncertain.
Then he laughed harshly.
“Worried? Worried!”
God. he might never write like that again!
Alas, the Design!
The clearskins of thought breed high, breed
low;
They are marvels of speed, or stolid and
slow;
They are deep in the wind, or shallow and
slack,
They range on the mountains or hug the
old track.
We speed them with tongues, or flog them
with ink,
They throb like a drum, or they slip with a
chink;
But most of them go with —alas, the de-
sign !
The thought tethered up at the end of the
line'.
N.S.W.
MART GILMORE.
The Wish.
'The non-return of dead men may
Be but a myth, and I would pray
Again to be a dreamer—again to,
In a new life, the virgin muses woo.
It were not hard to die if it but meant
Another bout of heavenly intent,
Where, in a higher measure, I may win
Acceptance of the life that I am in:
Lone though it be —the loneliest of them all
Which men their live§ do call—
It yet is shot with heavenly gleams
As is the body of our dreams.
Still, as the poet in us wakes and sings
Of death and the immortal things—
Immortal far as the mind knows
That in itself as in a vision goes—
Immortal, or as visionary then
As w e ourselves are when we go again,
Losing the light we have, perchance to run
Into the shadow of a faded sun.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.


w
S t V
OT only in the great cities, but in the more
remote districts as well, the popularity of
Sharwood Shoes for Men and Women grows
ever greater and greater. The reason is obvious —
they are good to look at, because in cut and style they
express the last word of fashion, and they are good to
wear, materials being of the finest, and workmanship
being exceptionally thorough. For comfort and
fitting, too, they are unexcelled.
When next you need boots or shoes, ask for
Sharwood’s —wear them once and you’ll wear them
always. All better-class stores throughout Aus-
tralia will be pleased to submit the newest models
for your inspection.
Remember —the name is on every pair—be sure to
look for it! It is NOT a Sharwood unless it bears
this name!
.€>*>
et* 1
d
FAtLTLE//
rCCTWEAR
Jv^rd
UP
ux
<.
✓
w-
MM
fa 1
/C^r
A
-rw» :rr i
i
rv
4
1
/
cC^
to
lf# ,T r
r»vr
SIT
%
—v!
< 358% I
V\v
b-e-t
Communicate with the Sharwood Service Bureau, Abbotsford,
Melbourne, if you have any difficulty in procuring both men’s
and women’s shoes.


A
Miss \EVA CARIt-GLYN,
a beautiful Rexona Girl,
now playing second
lead in the panto-
mime “Mother
Goose/’ at the Cre-
mor n e Theatre,
South Brisbane,
w rites: “Rexona
is a, perfect soap
for tender skins. It
leaves a smooth,
velvety feeling after
use, and is fragrant
and refreshing.
Friends of mine
have gratefully
thanked me for
recommending its
daily use.”
Q iris/ Why Oot Eojoy
Q Good (omplexior)?
You cannot, If you do not care for tlie delicate skin of the face. When you wash your
face, do you realise that it is not enough to simply remove the dirt, but that your skin
needs a soothing, healing influence to keep your complexion fresh and free from blemish?
Scented toilet soaps are often very pleasant, but do not assert this influence, as you are
well aware. Many of them contain free alkali, which tends to dry up the skin and
destroy its delicate texture.
Even the better class of such soaps do not in any way help to improve the skin, but
Rexona Skin and Facial Soap is not only an absolutely pure soap, but is medicated on the
same principle as the famous Rexona Ointment, which is known throughout all of Australasia
as the Rapid Healer. That is why Rexona Soap really does
for the skin and face what cosmetics are supposed to
do, by ensuring not only a clean face, but a pure
and healthy skin, and thus gives you a
clear complexion.
'Rexona
Soap
~ror ffizalih
) and
3<ututy
a s
mm
f &
If
a s
Mailed to you the
day they are mad
fJke famous Red Box oP QkooohdeS
~osk tree to any
'address in Australia.
Cpaton)
3/
We
54
10/-
6/
20/
dL3O4
a.rt
1
HI
LL
CH OCOLATES
162-166 P,ITT STREET,
sydne/'
SEND FOR. CATALOqUE ILLUSTRATED WITH REPRODUCTIONS~OF;OUICOONFECTIONEaY* IN.COLOUR^
was standing in the tiny school porch,
beckoning to him almost frantically. As
Jasper hurried forward, he couldn’t help
thinking that Miss Sprott looked terribly
plain and frumpish. She had been crying;
her nose was red, and her glasses were all
awry, and the bun of mouse-colored hair on
the back of her head had broken loose into
an untidy cloud. She was trembling so
violently that the boy was alarmed for her.
"Yes, Miss Sprott?” he said. “Is it a
snake? Wait till I get a stick.”
Miss Sprott shook her head. She said,
slowly reddening: “It isn’t a snake, Jasper.
Jasper, will you run after Mr. Beaument
and—and tell him I wish to speak to him?
If you run quickly you can catch him up.
Jasper, you must make him see that it’s
important.”
“Won’t it do after I’ve looked for my
knife?” Jasper asked, a trifle dashed by a
sense of anti-climax. “He’s bound to be
getting in the cows from the flat as I’m
passing.”
He was utterly unprepared for what fol-
lowed. Miss Sprott seemed to explode in
an abrupt releasing of every quality of
self-control. Her reserve, hen adult sense
of proportion, her perspectiveness of dignity
and courage, these things evaporated. She
dropped her hands upon Jasper’s shoulders,
and shook him in a kind of frenzy.
“Jasper, run—bring Albert back. I’m
afraid he’ll do harm to himself. Tell him
I didn’t mean it. Jasper—dear!”
Jasper’s astonishment intei’preted his
thought out loud. “Mean what?”
“I said I was tired of waiting—sick and
tired of waiting; you wouldn’t understand.”
As suddenly as she had seized him, she
released him with a little push. Tears
gushed behind the crooked spectacles. She
began to run towards the gate.
Jasper shouted as he passed her: “It’s
all right, Miss Sprott, it’s all right. I’ll
get Albert.”
He carried with him a vision of his
teacher standing grotesquely at the centre
of the playground, her dress caught above
her knees, and her face buried in her hands.
He had an instant of excited fear that she
had gone out of her mind. His own head
was swimming with the effort to realise the
stupendous fact that Miss Sprott and Albert
had quarrelled.
Jasp*.' almost collided with Albert not
ten seconds later. Albert was seated by the
roadside, staring rather vacantly at the
ground; his big, calloused hands twisting at
the brim of his hat. He smiled at Jasper
forlornly.
“Miss Sprott wants you,” Jasper panted.
Albert’s face went white. He rose slowly,
incredulously, a huge, shambling figure some-
how released of its unimportance by an
indefinable atmosphere of awe. The sweet-
ness of the man shone in his eyes, burnish-
ing him to a sort of nobility.
“Wants me, Jasper?”
“She said so,” Jasper panted.
There was satisfaction in the gaze he sent
after the broad retreating back. An im-
mense complacence pervaded his mind. He
had touched the innermost, pitiful- thought
of these two; had come close to the frag-
rant source of Miss Sprott’s lovely voice
and Albert Beaument’s beatific simplicity;
and a dim consciousness of this warmed him
for many days thereafter. He felt that he
shared with them a secret conspiracy of
some kind which he must never betray,
even to himself.
Nevertheless, brooding dully over his home-
lessons that night, he attempted some more
matter-of-fact understanding.
“Aunt, why don’t Miss Sprott and Albert
get married?”
Ann Martin said reprovingly: “Why,
Jasper, you know old Mr. Beaument won’t
give Albert a start. Have you finished your
lessons?”
“Nearly, Aunt.” Jasper’s pen resumed its
scratching obediently, but without atten-
tion. He said presently: “I wish old Amos
would die; don’t you. Aunt? They could
be married then, couldn’t they?”
“Jasper, that’s wicked!”
“I don’t care,” Jasper mumbled.
He blinked a little at his queerly blurred
exercise.
CHAPTER XL
Hector Martin.
Jasper was in his sixteenth year, and had
left his schooling behind some eighteen
months when his uncle’s aberration reached
its climax. Musk Ridge was again in
arrears, although to a slight extent only.
The fact, however, terrified Ann Martin.
Her whole thought was centred about the
spectre of threatened foreclosure and the
loss, not only of the farm, but of the legacy
which had before so miraculously inter-
vened to avert disaster. The dead weight
of her husband’s decaying faculties was
like a blight upon the endeavor of herself
and Jasper. Hector Martin, if sapped of
all else, clung bitterly to authority. He
was impervious alike to reason and appeal.
Neither expostulation nor entreaty could
overcome a fuddled optimism which in-
sisted upon angry denial of every precept
of sane conduct.
He would alternate outrageously now
between furious bouts of purposeless energy
and a brooding idleness which sometimes
lasted for weeks. During these derangements
he sat all day in the kitchen or on the
narrow verandah, clad in dungaree trou-
sers and flannel undershirt, with his feet
encased in shabby, down-at-heel carpet
slippers and a filthy smoking-cap dragged
over his head: sat with the foodless belly
of the alcoholic and bony limbs that shut
themselves into his body as blades shut
j n £ Q a poc ket-knife; sat like a devil’s scare-
croWj wagg i ng his pointed beard and staring
s^on i]y before him. He drank when he
eou ] ( j. and w hen he could not he sank
(he fangs of his torment into the flesh of
Ann Martin > s thought. With Jasper he
wag e hher domineering or self-excusing. At
meg j l; [ s v j s i on would clear briefly to an
j lones t perspective in which he saw himself
ag otherg saw him; and then he would bc-
come inarticulate in horrified humiliation.
At other times, when drink was in the
agcendant he exploded from one mood to
> the cl ; max of a shocking
turned him into a gasping, throb-
* nerye _ racked crea ture with'laboring
£ and scarce l y with enough
breath to curse.
Hume alone of the outside world guessed
the blackness of the pit mto which Hec-
tor Martin descended. The missionei came
seldom now to Musk Ridge. Since ne me .
with nothing but bitter disputation, he
refrained from adding to an atmosphere
already overcharged with unhappiness. He
scrupulously encouraged the public, view-
of Hector Martin as an unfortunate and
not over-industrious selector whose mtem-
perance could not be suspected of worse
than its obvious result. There was no hint
of the viciousmess which culminated m
physical violence only too frequently,
Ann Martin, terrified lest Jasper should
discover this blackest of all her shaming,
went halting through the weeks, with the
lash of her martyrdom coiled behind averted.
stricken eyes. Jasper at sixteen was tall
and sturdy, and primed with bodily strength
and courage. Hector Martin, even in vilest
mood, dared lay no hand upon him. Jasper
had definitely declared this by taking lor-
cibly from his uncle the whip from which
he had once cowered and casting it into
the fire. That was on his sixteenth birth-
day, a fact of which Ann Martin had after-
wards reminded him, with, anew and pas-
sionate adoration in her eyes and on her
fipg.
Secretly she had exulted in the boy’s
accession to eager, self-defensive youth,
p or a long time she did not foresee the dan-
ger that inevitably attached to this sudden
liberation. When by slow degrees she came
to realisation that defence might as easily
be spurred to aggression, she was numb
w ith apprehension. Her constant dread
was that Jasper would see and interpret the
grea t bruises that sometimes showed upon
k er armg and shoulders.
Once her cheek was cut. She had fought
her inart i cu i a teness to make light of it;
telli him how she had slipped with her
/ leg and fallen against the edge of
tab £ when ghe saw that Jasper be-
lieyed thig ghe had t into her bedroom
& and gent a of re fi e f and grati-
tude. She had visioned the man atid boy
passing from bitter recrimination to the
tragedy of blows. The blood that smeared
her S ch^ek had seemed to turn mto a crim-
,,~ • , .
sm } 1)00 a , ,T * Hnv -o
„ J as P? l canae 0 . '. , A
find his aunt hm P m S aimlessly about rhe
t He was r , ud u y - and f T^L^JTs
J IS exertions; wet hair crested above his
brown forehead, agate-brown eyes dancing
, IGir ! ( e Bquid hg ts, ips pai e '
dy and strong young jaw thrusting; full of
the vim and arrogance of his ripening man-
hood. , , . j • „
.Ann Martins dull gaze brightened in
timid gathering of admiring though . ei
devoured his comeliness, the half-
defiant poise, the tmy swagger with which
do brought his lean body into the room.
He was so very much as she had always
desired for him, even to his stubborn amoi-
tions and ,his hatred of failure.' As she
regarded his smile, her own lips became less
complaining. Her face firmed to a rare
determination. She said quietly:
“Jasper, the pig money’s gone,
“Gone, Aunt? Gone where?
“It was in the tin under the board m
my room, and now its gone. Nearly five
pounds, Jasper. I’d meant to lay in a few
things for the winter.” _
Jasper said with conviction: “That’s why
I can’t find uncle.”
He swung about, frowning; but she
checked him.
He s been gone- over an hour, 1 think.
Jt , t ]ate n * w to look for him . it just
>t be helped ”
, <lt , time something was done,” Jasper
mumble d. He was asto nished to find her
taki it so calmly . B y all precedent she
ghou]d haye been prostra ted. soggy with
b crying
«j don - t know » h is aunt said. “I must
tb - r|k »
« Think? ” Jasper echoed.
n e £ o j d bimself sullenly that it was a case
f or acßo n, not useless thinking. He wanted
urge ber f 0 ] eave Musk Ridge for good
and j- 0 com e away with him and make
a s t ar t together somewhere, leaving Hector
]y[ ar tin sole monarch of the ruin he had
wrought. But he knew how useless argu-
merd 0 f the sort had proved in the past,
n; s aun t held absurdly to what she called
ber du t y As though, the boy thought, one
cou i d be blamed foT finding a limit to en-
durance! They should be free to choose
their own lives,
v v* r i ■ , t>-’
. *•* ?/ lea ™?. Mtisl: Rmge
had Sf? qlu t te He was
sure that with decent management the place
would T® than -, I, ?f “ s 'W- Th ® 801
was good ’ eTen and “ was dlrty - A,most
(Continued on next page.)


THE BIG FOUR!
PROVISION FOR YOUR OLD AGE
PROTECTION FOR YOUR DEPENDENTS
A PROFITABLE INVESTMENT
CREATION OF AN IMMEDIATE ESTATE
Are ensured under Life policies with the
A.M.P. SOCIETY.
Participating policies effected by. 31 st December will share in the
Cash Bonus for 1928.
Cash Bonus allotted on 30th June last represented an average
return to participating members of 11/7 in EACH POUND OF
PREMIUMS PAID IN 192 7.
Head Office,
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
H. W. APPERLY,
General Manager.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia dnd the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities foe the transaction of all general banking business.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
S 3
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
appr o'aching
age.
It is NOT “THE
THING.”
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Allen’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Manufactured by
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
i
“IXL” Carbide
When forwarding your next order for Carbide
insist on being supplied with
“IXL” Brand.
It is manufactured in Australia
and is guaranteed by the manufacturers to be
at least equal to the British Acetylene
Association standard quality.
When using “IXL” Brand you are helping an
all-Australian industry to flourish.
If unable to obtain from your supplier
write direct to the undersigned:
H. Jones & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
HOBART, TASMANIA, Sole Distributing Agents
For
The Australian Commonwealth Carbide Co., Ltd.,
Electrona, Tasmania.
anything could be grown if the trouble were
Jasper burst out: “If he’d only leave me
to manage things, Aunt! But he won’t.
You know how I’ve talked and talked at
him. There’s no sense in it. Aunt, you
talk to him. He’ll be home to-night, some
time. He might be in a good mood.”
She promised vaguely. “I don’t know.
I might. Oh, Jaspie, it isn’t any use. The
way he’ll be.”
“Well, then, I will.”
This shook her apathy. Her eyes became
alarmed. “No, you mustn’t. I’ll speak
to him. Truly I will.”
“Honest, Aunt?”
“If he gives me the chance. Jaspie,
promise you won’t interfere.”
She sat for a long time, after he had
left to bring in the cows, with her hands
folded stiffly in her lap and her eyes closed.
CHAPTER XII.
Escape.
Jasper was dreaming o>f the bracken.
He was standing, as always when his sleep
so tricked him, waist-high in the rustling
brown flood of fern, sweating his hatred
and terror of it. He could hear the wind
booming through the timber overhead,
could smell the stench of the wet stinkwood
along the ridge. He was staring at the
slow uprooting of an enormous ironbark,
as the wind hummed its fury through the
swaying, shrieking branches. The roar of
its falling carried over into his suddenly-
awakened consciousness. He sat up in his
bed, quaking sickishly, his hands moving
about the darkness. It was curious how
the echoes of his dreaming still clung at
his ears, as though the death his sleep had
so narrowly escaped was actually pursuing
him into the waking state. He had been
in the very path of the falling tree. Hts
heart was pounding.
The utter quiet of the house reassured
him by degrees, and he lay back on his
pillow. A gleam of light beyond the chink
in the door told him that his aunt was
still out of her bed. Jasper argued from
this that his uncle had not yet returned
home. He had known his aunt to sit
through two whole nights in succession,
waiting for his uncle to come, just in case
his condition needed her dumb, agonised
tending. Women, Jasper sleepily told him-
self, were the queerest things. They clung
and clung, even when there was nothing )
left to cling to. He could picture his aunt'
sitting in her chair by the kitchen-fire,
stupid with weariness and the anxiety of
waiting watering, frightened eyes
broken-nailed, faithful hands drudging,
ugly, tender, swe'et-hearted, incompetent,
forgiving woman.
He was almost asleep when a tiny thread
of sound reached him. He opened his eyes
to see a dim figure standing by the bedside.
His aunt’s voice whispered at him continu-
ally; her voice, but with such shocking,
alien timbre in its flatness as to be hardly
recognisable.
“Jaspie! Jaspie!”
“Yes, Aunt. All right, Aunt. What is it?”
She was choking.
“Jaspie, we’re going away. We’re run-
ning away. I can’t stand it any longer. I
can’t. I can’t.”
Her hands were fumbling at his breast,
and he caught them and held them there—
held them with a bleeding love and pity
that his careless youth had never before
known. Her dumbness, her vacant, plod-
ding looks, h'er ill-favor and poverty and
stupid suffering were suddenly dear things
to him. His heart wrapped itself about
them all, crying its understanding and pro-
tection.
“What has he done?”
“He struck me again—struck me!”
Jasper said, in the voice of a man:
“Struck you—again? Do you mean he has
struck you before?”
“He slipped and fell on the floor,” Ann
Martin stammered, unheeding. “I thought
it would have wakened you. He’s gone
to sleep lying there. Jasper, you’ve always
wanted to run away.”
“I can dress in the dark,” Jasper said.
“Sit there on the bed. Yes, we’ll go. I
won’t be long dressing. Why didn’t you
tell me before that he struck you?”
“Jaspie, he’s asleep. Let him be. We’ll
just leave him and go. Be quiet. We
mustn’t wake him. He’s asleep now, so
we can just leave him.”
He heard her hysteria die away into a
gasping, incoherent murmur. Presently he
was ready, with his few treasures thrust
into an old portmanteau—his mother’s
portmanteau that had accompanied his
orphaned journey to Musk Ridge.
They were gone some distance before it
occurred to him to ask what plans she had.
Her reply was confused, pointless. The
enormity of what they had done seemed
to stifle the rest of her thought.
Jasper guided her stumbling with his
arm about her waist. He decided that it
was early morning; perhaps three or four
o’clock; he had no means of telling exactly.
Too evidently his aunt was not in a fit
state to harry with much questioning, and
he walked on silently. They would go, he
thought, to Mr. Hume, who would advise
them what to do. Perhaps he would lend
them enough money to carry them to a
position somewhere. But all this was very
hazy and perplexed.
Now that he was actually embarked upon
this often-imagined enterprise, Jasper was
to discover that he was without the foun-
dation of design. For this he did not care
very much. Already projects were taking
shape towards the relief and comfort ©i
his aunt. There was this they could do,
or that. Jasper’s optimism was boundless.
But all his thought centred about Ann
Martin. Never had she seemed so frail and
pitiful. At times, when she stumbled, lie
could feel the clamor of her heart against
his own. She was shaking with the magni-
tude of her emotion. In the milky shadow
of the dwindling moonlight her face
appeared drawn and ghastly, and her
breath came in laboring spasms.
“Tired, Aunt?”
She did not reply, and he lowered her
gently, on an impulse, to a seat on a fallen
tree. Something in her attitude brought
him a slow uneasiness. She was more agi-
tated, he thought, than when she had come
to his bedside in all the tremor of her
new-found resolution. He had an impatient
fear that perhaps she was about to faint,
and drew her body resignedly into the hol-
low of his shoulder. But when he glanced
down at her after a little while he saw that
her eyes were wide open, and that she
seemed to be making an effort to speak.
“What is it, Aunt?”
She drew suddenly away from him,
almost as if she feared him.
“Jaspie, I can’t do it. It seemed right
then, when we left, but every step away
from him—away from him !”
“You mean you want us to go back?”
Jasper said dully.
Ann Martin put out a hand imploringly
“Jaspie, I can’t help it. I haven’t the
courage to —to desert him like this. We’re
all he’s got. Jaspie, what a weak fool
you must think me!”
“It’s all right, Aunt,” Jasper said, and
sighed. “Don’t worry about it, dear. We’ll
go back; yes, we’ll go back.”
She broke into a cry: “It doesn’t seem
possible there’s a God.”
Day came as they went slowly up the
rise to the house. It appeared to Jasper,
staring in silence before him, that the
eastern arc of sky was shaken faintly, as
if by an invisible hand. The deep black
spaces rolled aside like a curtain, leaving
a gauze of light lovely as an opal. From'
one sector of the arc to the other the opal
deepened to blue, fading into white where
the apex plunged to meet the shadow of
earth. Stars blinked and vanished, and
a pink streamer laid itself softly along the
horizon. The dawn wind was warm and
murmurous, and laden with the spices of
the bush.
From the window of the kitchen showed
a faint gleam from the lamp within. The
silence, the seeming absence of life or
movement, brought a chill. The house was
so very still, so wrapped in solitude and
gloom, as to taint the atmosphere with a
premonition of evil. Little shadows crept
mouselike before their feet as they entered
and dissolved through the half-open door of
the kitchen. The creaking of a board some-
where beyond set Jasper’s pulses hammer-
ing.
He glanced at his aunt, and saw that the
pupils of her eyes were contracted and
shining. Her fingers bit into the flesh of
his arm.
He said, unaccountably nervous: “It’s
all right, Aunt. He won’t ever touch you
again. I’ll see to that. Let me go in first.”
Hector Martin lay full length on the
floor, his position unaltered since they had
last seen him. The whites of his eyes
gleamed through the tautly-spread fingers
of the bony hand that was carried to his
face, and the pointed beard was like a
grey sponge set at the base of his dropped
jaw.
Ann Martin began to scream, a thin,
reedy, animal sound from the corners of
her working mouth. Jasper set his teeth
against the rising nausea of his own fear.
He heard himself saying stupidly, “He’s
dead—uncle’s dead.”
He was barely in time to catch her as she
fell.
(To he continued.)
Cameron’s Hill.
I know that summer on Cameron’s Hill
Treads swiftly on spring’s bright close,
That morning goes trailing in daffodil,
And evening in ruffling rose;
But never the byways of fern I follow
Where sunlight and shadow entwine:
Let the grey thrushes call in the wind-bitter
hollow
Some heart that is gayer than mine.
Under the shadow of Cameron’s Hill
Softly the brown river croons.
Its dimpling current all glimmering still
With broken-up bits of old moons.
But I’ll not be hearing the message it’s
sending;
The reaches of shadow and shine
May draw to the lure of its cadence unending
Some heart that is lighter than mine.
Round by the shoulder of Cameron’s Hill
The Lovers’ Walk winds in the shade,
Where milk-white clematis and supplejack
spill
Faint stars in the wind-rippled glade.
But I’m tired of the tasting of sober regret
And tears that are salter than brine;
So Cupid may trap in his treacherous net
Some heart that is wiser than mine.
The star-candles glimmer o’er Cameron’s Hill
Like carnival lanterns aglow.
Was it there in the shadows .we trysted at
will
Last summer, or long years ago?
I’ve little heart now for the folly of love,
Small taste for its heady, bright wine.
So the god on Olympus may laugh from
above
At some heart that is braver than mine.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


mm
■ >- i
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
M aximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CU.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—-HUJL.Uiiia •» CilL HCH. Brisbane.
N.i£. Oltice—o3-107 T'eatherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Ollice—“Chancery House,” 485 Hourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. 15T,1> 15 It. SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide. S.A.
_
THE CREDIT OF TASMANIA
is undoubted and
THE MERCURY
A CREDIT TO TASMANIA
The “Mercury” is the only Metropolitan News-
paper in the State. Its news services, articles
and typography are unexcelled in Australia.
THE MERCURY
Covers the Whole State,
and its circulation greatly exceeds the combined
figures of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Delivered by fast motor-cars, it reaches Laun-
ceston (121 miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before breakfast.
ESTABLISHED 1854. PRICE 14d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE; F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 22S
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE; “Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
The Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everyw.’.ere in South Australia,
and is P.a&d by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation in
Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny of Net Sales
invited.
ALL THE NEWS AND ALL THE
ADVERTISEMENTS.
In 1927 average size of “THIE ADVERTISER,”
26 pages of 8 columns (eacfh 24$ inch deep).
Space occupied by averaged
164 pages daily, or a Total of
988,7J2 INCHES IN THE YEAR.
Copies of “THE. ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all ' iiiter-tyate aganccs of
ilessrs. Gordon and Goich, price lsd.
Head Offices:
J. L. Bonython & Co.,
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. L. WILSON, 228 Pitt» Street, Sydney.
Telephone MA 3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. It gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to:—
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Clifton Gardens
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR
Restful, quiet and cool—open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully
Beach and Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort—Excellei
Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff from 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS—DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or
RESERVATIONS
Hotel
HOTEL
■ situated with Private
it Cuisine and Service.
Motor.
: Y3012 (4 lines).
Keep your liver healthy,
Banish stomach ills.
V *
Sick headache & biliousness,
By taking
ď
f
TWO AT NIGHT
PUT YOU RIGHT
More than half the ills of mankind
spring from a disordered liver. A
sluggish liver causes constipation,
ruins the digestion, weakens the nerves,
dulls the mind and deprives you of
bodily vigour. If you are tired and
depressed just try Cockle’s Pills aqd
see what an amazing improvement
follows their wonderful tonic action
upon the liver. Get a box to-day
without fail.
Small pill, easily taken. Of all chemists
and stores 1/6 a box.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., LTD., LONDON.
I WON -
i Wonder. how
d
Twer Problem never worries' me
. r\ ' v
to
\N
/
/
9
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
U\V/ 1 1 • 1)
W eeKIV LvOUnet
Published
Every
Wednesday
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price ------- 3d.
X
s®
*<*■
o' l
..•*•>/ **S*
•* cM§j»


Six
5c
J
SSaosr
k
A Six Well Named
An Engineering Victory
Drive Dodge Brothers Victory Six and you will experi-
ence steering ease such as you have never known before
in the Victory’s price class.
You will encounter acceleration and speed wholly unex-
pected— yet readily understood when you consider that
the Victory has more power per pound*of weight than
any car of comparable price.
You will be amazed by the Victory’s riding comfort over
rough roads at a speed that would be impossible for
most cars.
You will be astonished at the absence of sidesway when
you turn a corner swiftly.
And the Victory fuel economy sets new standards for
six-cylinder engines of equal power.
Ride for thirty minutes in this new Dodge Brothers Six
and you will agree that it is well named. You, too, will
proclaim it the greatest engineering victory in many years
of motor car history,
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne .
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane — Townsville.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
Harden and Johnston, Limited, Sydney.
Northern Automobiles , Ltd., Auckland , 2V.Z.
Atnuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, N.Z.
Cossens and Blach, Ltd . .. Dunedin, U.Z.
P. H. Vickery, Ltd. .. Invercargill, N.Z.
Newton King, Ltd. .. New Plymouth, N.Z.
Magnus Motors, Ltd. .. Wellington, N.Z.
Dodge* Broth grs
MOTOR CARS
26/12/’2B.
