

V
59
m
S 3
1
The Genuine LAGER
DINNER ALE
AUSTRALIA’S BEST
“For They Are Jolly Good Fellows’ ‘
The Bullet
CARTOONS BY REASON AND SCORFIELD.
Vol. 49. —No. 2505,
We iiesday, February 15, 1928.
Price 6dL
Registered at tt General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for the library catalogue and
lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to—
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE LTD
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. *’
DLYSAGHT'
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
rnuua
ouaafi
ftatii*
7k*pot
This Little Pig went to Market .
Tliis little Pig stayed at home to have Nursery Tea out of
Mabel Lucie Attwell’s delightfully funny Shelley China. There
are Baby-plates (round and oval), cups and saucers, milk horns
and mugs, milk jugs, sugar basins and tea-pots—all in this
artist’s inimitable style.
tt is fine and dainty, but built to stand nursery handling, and not dear.
Ask to see the latest Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Dainty White China,
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel Lucie Attwell and Hilda Cbwham,
Shelley Domestic Ware , and Shelley Jelly Moulds—all British. In cast
cf any difficulty in obtaining write to :—T. W- HEATH
O CO., LTD., Z)i CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
look fi»* the name Shelleq on each piece of China )
CHINA
Bill
ot3Tai«3al
Calojfl&mjrJjti
/MdJty InfIKRW
FLUID MAGNESU
V« avcA*. «w•*»«<;ald«vtin4
«“* «u» Ksvm* ••*.«.(«
Kruse's Fluid Magnesia
is essentially a family Medicine.
From Grandpa to the youngest
toddler its use is recommended.
For Upset Stomach, Bilious-
ness, Indigestion, the effects
of overeating or overdrinking,
KRUSE’S is the outstanding
corrective.
Buying a bottle of Kruse’s is
like buying health for the family
—Never be without.
FLUID MAGNESIA
. Made hg Felton, Grimwade & Co. Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
mustdie:
NQH POI3UMOUS POWDtK.
THE GREAT INJECT GESTOm
er
( Flics.
) Fleas.
) Bugs
S«oviuilott
- II-
X V,
MUSTDIE"
POWDER must not be mistaken for insect!*
cide or common insect powders, some of
which are sold under fancy names, for
“MUSTDIE” contains an ingredient par-
ticularly fatal to that common house pest
aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
“MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers,
or forward 1/- in stamps to Box 1520 G.P.O.
The Red Page
The “Deposited” Book
It used to be said that when the bishops
of the Anglican Church exercised their “jus
liturgicum” the results, if they took the
form of "occasional prayers” or a special
“order of service,” were such as to endear
the laity yet more to the Prayer Book of
1662. Then came the war, and from 1914
onwards, whatever criticisms their com-
positions have encountered, there have been
few on the score of the English employed,
for the bishops recovered the art of ex-
pressing in stately prose the religious yearn-
ings of a nation. Many a Digger and
many a bereaved mother will remember the
consolation found in that war-time litany,
put forward by authority of the two English
archbishops, which expressed so simply and
sufficiently the needs of the time:—
That it may please Thee to spread Thine ever-
lasting arms around the wounded and the dying, and
in Thy redeeming love have....
It seems almost incredible (except that it
explains in part the opposition to the revi-
sion of the Prayer Book) that permission
to use this petition was withheld in at least
one diocese on the ground that doctrinaliy
it was an advance on the P.B. of 1662.
In the dust of conflict engendered by the
proposals for the revision of the Prayer
Book and by their rejection on the part
of the House of Commons, few people have
found time to study the “Deposited Book”
from the standpoint of literature. Yet it
is a remarkable achievement. Although it
would be an exaggeration to claim that it
is the equal of the 1662 book, in its
language, construction and composition it
is a worthy supplement, which is all that it
(modestly enough) claims to be.
It is not my purpose to discuss any of
the points upon which controversy is now
raging. The majority of the changes are
quite uncontroversial. They include the
shortening of Matins and Evensong, the
increase of the occasional prayers and
thanksgivings, some additional “Proper
Prefaces,” modifications in the use of the
Psalter, the enrichment of the office for the
Burial of the Dead, the omission of certain
references to the Old Testament, the pro-
vision of additional collects, epistles and
gospels, and the addition of an appendix
containing various short offices. The con-
troversial sections include an Alternative
Order for the administration of the Holy
Communion and provision for the Reserva-
tion of the Consecrated Elements for the
Communion of the Sick.
The present Prayer Book contains three
prefaces—one called “The Preface,” pre-
fixed to the revision of 1662, and attributed
to Dr. Sanderson, Bishop of Lincoln; one
called “Concerning the Service of the
Church,” which was the Preface from 1549
to 1662, written by Cranmer; a third “of
Ceremonies,” which was first placed at the
end of the 1549 book and transferred to
the front in 1552. The revisers of 1927
propose to add a new preface. Written in
stately, though modern, English, it is econo-
mical of words, yet covers adequately 250
years of a nation’s development. It says:
The wisdom of our fathers under the good hand
of God gave to the Church of England the Book ol
Common Prayer in English. It is, and we believe
that it always will be, one of the great books of
the world. Nothing save the English version of the
Holy Scriptures is enwoven so closely in the language
and the deepest thought of our people at home
and beyond the seas.... There will, indeed, always
be some to whom change in that which has been
hallowed by long use seems grievous and fraught
with danger. They would stand upon the old paths
and follow in their worship of God the pattern which
their fathers set.
The political, economic and religious
changes since 1662 are expressed in a few
sentences which constitute a gem of con-
densation :
The England of the sixteenth and seventeenth cen-
turies has become the mother of a great Common-
wealth of peoples... .a shifting of power from the
few to the many a State which guards instead of
mistrusting liberty of thought and speech truth
is not prized less highly because it is no longer
fenced on any side.
Earlier revisions all added to the length of
the services. Contrast these (it may be a
sign of the times) with the terseness of some
of the alternative forms. At Matins and
Evensong, for instance, the absolution may
be pronounced by the priest thus:—
May the Almighty and merciful Lord grant unto
you pardon and remission of all your sins, time for
amendment of life and the grace and comfort of the
Holy Spirit.
Some alterations have an unfamiliar sound.
The response “Because there is none other
that fighteth for us, but only Thou, O God,”
becomes “Because there is none other that
ruleth the world but only Thou, O God.”
The new phrase avoids the “Me und Gott”
attitude of Kaiser Wilhelm but will take a
little time to accustom itself to the ear.
In the “Occasional Prayers and Thanks-
givings” the State, Parliamentary and execu-
tive prayers are grouped, and many new
ones added. Their language is dignified
even where the thought is modern. Many
are phrases teaching a great deal in a few
words. Many of the occasions and needs
did not occur to or could not have been
foreseen by the original compilers of the
Prayer Book. A simple collect is added for
New Year’s Day (not hitherto noticed as
such in the Church’s year). On Good
Friday “Jews, Turks, Infidels and Hereticks”
is softened in the alternative to “Thine
ancient people the Jews and upon all who
have not known Thee.” In the alternative
order of Confirmation there is a modern
note of service emphasised in the final
blessing of the candidates:—
Go forth into the world in peace; be of good
courage; hold fast that which is good; render to no
man evil for evil; strengthen the fainthearted;
support the weak; help the afflicted; honor all men:
love and serve the Lord, rejoicing in the power of
the Holy Spirit. And the blessing....
The alternative form of solemnisation of
matrimony omits the Old Testament refer-
ences and other' frank expressions which
were usual in former days. The service
no longer ends in “amazement.” The order
for the yisitation of the sick contains much
new matter finely expressed. A prayer for
a dying child in particular and some of the
commendatory prayers once, they are known
will live amongst those unforgettable
phrases from the old book that have en-
riched all our literature. The real gem,
however, is a complete new service for the
burial of a child. It will be a calamity if
it does not pass into authorised use. One
prayer:—
0 God whose ways are hidden and Thy works most
wonderful; who makest nothing in vain and lovest
all that Thou hast made; Comfort Thou Thy servants,
whose hearts are sore smitten and oppressed; and
grant that they may so love and serve Thee in this
life, that together with this Thy child, they may
obtain the fulness of Thy promises in the world to
come....
In the alternative Commination Service
“God shall judge” is substituted for “Cursed
be.”
Here and there in the “Deposited Book”
there is an awkward phrase, and now and
again a modern word jars where an admit-
tedly archaic one is familiar. Examples
are: “Impartially administer justice” in-
stead of “Indifferently administer justice,”
“Living” instead of “lively.” But where
these substitutions are made, and they are
very few, the old word has without doubt,
changed its meaning in 250 years.
Regarded as a contribution to the nation’s
literature, the revision of the Prayer Book
has been done well with a sane conservatism
and a reverent liberalism.
R. T. W.
The Apotheosis of Hardy
In a eulogy of the late Thomas Hardy (B,
25/1/’2B), Nettie Palmer refers to “Jude the
Obscure” as “a book with an odd corner of
ghastly interest for Australians.” It might
also be cited as an example of the author’s
almost ghastly ignorance of most things
outside of his own beloved Wessex—in
which and oil which he is of course' supreme.
As in the references to Brazil in “Tess.”
Hardy is generally unhappy when he leaves h is
own small domain, and sometimes downright
childish. No great writer of our time has
had so circumscribed a horizon. The tragic
little boy born in Australia who appears in
“Jude,” the youth whose constitutional
morbidness finally expresses itself in murder
and suicide, is mostly accounted for by the
author on the hypothesis that his parents
were getting on in years when he was be-
gotten. In a new country like Australia,
the accepted authority on Dorset explains,
people have to work harder for their living
than in England and hence postpone mar-
riage, the impression being left that a
brooding, melancholic child like this exhibit
in “Jude” is one of the possible or probable
consequences. It is this sort of trash that
makes me wonder sometimes whether
Hardy has not been preposterously over-
praised as a craftsman. Perhaps the reason
why such a passage hasn’t been more hotly
resented is that few people are likely to
read “Jude the Obscure” more than once.
I admit to having been thrilled and gripped
by Hardy’s prose wprks, from “The Mayor
of Casterbridge” to “Tess,” although I sus-
pect the spell would have been less potent
if I had not been bom and bred on the edge
of the Wessex country. Much of his power,
for me, lies in his matchless knowledge of
folk-lore and old country customs, his mag-
nificent descriptive powers applied to
scenery and to the moods of Nature no less
than human passions. He drew vivid pic-
tures of the people and the types he knew
best. Whether they were all as saturated
with sex as he saw them is another ques-
tion; that attribute of his always seemed
to me more French than English. Some-
times I have doubted if his characters,
fascinating as they are, were more real than
those of Dickens as compared (say) with
Thackeray’s. Still, one would be sorry to
lose them, although there are few that have
really 'Tarried far.”
No doubt his verse is rugged and vigorous
and full of meat, but even those who find in
it all those qualities, in addition to the uni-
form depressingness of his prose, will hardly
deny that it is too creaking and harsh and
unmusical ever to be popular, even in the
limited sense in which Browning has ever
been popular.
When Kipling, aggrieved at having his
early works pirated by Yankee publishers
and at three writers of established fame—
Besant, Hardy and Black—coming to the
rescue of the pirates, wrote that admirable
and ringing piece of satire “The Three
Captains,” he assigned to Besant, it may be
remembered, pre-eminence among the trio
“he was Captain of the Fleet, the greatest
of them all.” That was, I think, in 1888
Besant hasn’t lasted well, and Black has
shown even less staying power, but Hardy
(Continued on page 5.)


“Truth in Advertising.”
&
&
\k
f*Pf
I. Hollis and Sons’ 12G. Top-lever Breech-loading
Single-barrel Gun, Steel Barrel, choke bored, good
steel rebounding backwork lock, walnut heart
stock, half pistol grip, snap fore-end fastener, solid
striker, neatly finished and engraved. Proved
for Nitro powders. Weight about
61b
£B/10/-
W. Cashmore’s 12G. D.8.8.L. Hammerless Pigeon
Gun, crossbolt action, automatic safety bolt, Eng-
lish fine steel barrels, choke bored, flat file cut
rib, figured walnut stock, pistol grip, chambered
for 2fin. cartridges, good finish, neatly engraved,
specially proved for Nitro powders.
Weight about 71b
£23
As above, plain finish
£lB/18/-
` df
Smokeless Cartridges
Nobel’s Ballistite, 12 gauge, 2fin. . . 25/- per 100
“Nile” Ballistite, 12 gauge, 2 Jin.. . 20/- per 100
Eley’s Grand Prix, Diamond, Smoke-
less, 12 and 16 gauge, 2 Jin.. . 18/- per 100
Eley’s .20 gauge, Diamond Smoke-
less, 20 gauge, 2Jin 16/6 per 100
Eley’s Fourlong, Smokeless, 410
gaug.e, 2Jin . 15/- per 100
Eley’s Fourten Smokeless, 410
gauge, 2in 13/- per 100
Eley’s Diamond Smokeless Gastight,
12 gauge, 2fin 25/- per 100
The “Teddy” Stainless Hunting Knife. "Teddy ’
is a real knife built for real service sturdy,
efficient and rustless. The keen, hard-tempered,
substantial blade, measuring 4|in.
length. With leather sheath
10/6
Paper and Brass Shell Set, in partitioned box, com-
prising Loader, Re-capper, Shell Extractor,
Powder and Shot Measure, Cleaning Rod
and implements, 120,
9/6
(We do not pay carriage on above goods.)
Wood Decoy Ducks and Drakes,
painted in natural colors,
lifelike in appearance. Each
91 -
Duck calls, natural tone. Each, 3/6
Gun Oil, for lubricating Guns anrl
Rifles and preventing rust.
Per can
1/3
Stephen Young Oil. The .303 com-
bined Cleaner and Rust preventer
for all kinds of Rifles and Sporting
Guns after firing Cordite or Nitro
Powder. Small Bottle, 1 Od.
Large Bottle
1/6
REPAIRS
We undertake repairs of all kinds
to any make of Gun, Rifle or Re-
volver. New barrels and other parts
fitted to Rifles; Sights fitted and
adjusted. As we have expert Gun-
smiths constantly employed on re-
pairs, and every appliance most
suitable for the work, customers
sending us repairs may be quite
confident they will be done in a
perfectly satisfactory manner. We
are always prepared to give an
exact price, if required, for any
work before it is put into hand, but
it is necessary for us to have the
firearm (complete, if possible) be-
fore we can quote.
The “D.P.S ”
“Deposit-Purchase System”
Will Help You.
(Full particulars on application )
"‘You Pay No Interest.”
Hammerless Pigeon Gun
12G. B.S.A. Ejector Model de Luxe Hammerless
Pigeon Gun, 30in. Jessop’s Fluid Compressed Steel
Barrels, right modified, left full choke. Chambered
for cartridges. Stock specially selected
Italian walnut, Half pistol grip. Bend at heel, 2in.;
at comb, 1 Jin. Length, I 4 Jin. Weight, about 61b.
12oz. Action, B.S.A. special pattern (Anson and
Deeley type). Top lever. Automatic safety B.S.A.
ejector mechanism.. Beautifully engraved, part
scroll and part wild duck
London style, as illustrated .
£23/10!
Standard ejector, Australian model
£2O
Shot Gun Field Cleaner, bristle brush, strong cord
and weight. ,ln canvas case, 12G. 3/9
SB
sEssias!*
Cleaning Rods, best quality three-piece Redwood,
solid brass joint, complete with mop, wire brush
and brass jag, 12G 3/-
As above, three-piece, 41 OG. Set . 5/9
As above, three-piece, 20G. Set 5/6
mmmmm ■hshkh
i«gniieiriiaiw
rsuvn
‘
Leather Gun Cases
Grained Cdwhide, lined with Cloth, nut color,
spring lock, heavy brass corners, 32in. . . £5/5/«
Ditto, ditto, 30in. ............ .—....... £5
{Write for illustrated catalogue. Post Free.)
Anthony Hordern
and Sons Limited
Postal Address :
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
SYDNEY.
'Phone Number
M 2401 (40 lines)


<b
ft
Per
|\
y
ce
SUNBEAM fame is world wide. Time and again
Sunbeam efficiency has upheld British prestige
on Land, Sea and in the Air, just as it has
Drought lasting satisfaction to innumerable motorists.
For overseas markets the 16-h.p., 20-h.p. and
25-h.p. models are specially recommended. They
are being shipped to and are giving satisfaction in
every part of the world.
For export, all Sunbeam Cars have standard
track, a ground clearance of 9" at the lowest point,
special springing and a larger radiator with fan to
ensure perfect riding and adequate cooling under all
conditions.
>
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
Xn E r A L ,L B ?, I J I , SH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
WILLIAMS. HILL & CAMERON, LTD., 205-207 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUSTRAL MOTORS, LTD., Corner Hay and Pier Streets, Perth; and Queen Victoria
Street, Fremantle.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 09 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
MANUFACTURERS:
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Wolverhampton, England.
SPECIAL EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l.
Cables: “SUBEAMOCO.” London.
p
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO.,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY.
Sheffield,
England
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME S WEAR.
Representatives:
NORMAN BAKER * LONGHURST, LTD..
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
` hdgf
No. 1369.
U.S. ROYAL CORD TYRES ARE GOOD TYRES
Wl
It?
W
Hg
reasons
Distributors:
UNITED STATES RUBBER
CO. (A/SIA) LTD.,
439 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone M 2031 (4 lines).
UNITED STATES RUBBER
CO. (A/SIA) LTD.,
102 VICTORIA ST., CARLTON,
MELBOURNE.—CentraI 943 7.
UNITED STATES RUBBER
CO. (A/SIA) LTD.,
1 1 I MARGARET STREET,
BRISBANE.—’Phone 4250.
UNITED STATES RUBBER
CO. (A/SIA) LTD.,
195 FLINDERS STREET,
ADELAIDE—’Phone 6246.
ATKINS (W.A.) LTD.,
894 HAY STREET, PERTH.
’Phone A 3 151 (4 lines).
(1) Bee ause the builders of
ROYAL CORDS own vast
rubber estates there is plenty
of rubber in ROYAL CORDS.
(2) Because pure rubber latex is
used, it is the right kind of
rubber.
(3) Because the web cord fabric
is impregnated with sprayed
rubber, you are sure of rubber
in the right places.
(4) Because there is no tyre-
building plant in the world to
equal the U.S. Plant.
(5) Because a ROYAL CORD
can’t help outliving all other
tyres.
(6) Because the ROYAL CORD is,
of necessity, the best balanced
tyre made.
UNITED STATES
ROYAL
CORDS
V’l
I
\ 0053.
THE “SUNTYNE”
COMBINED GRAIN & FERTILIZER DRILL & SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR
For clean
and
thorough
cultivation
V
y.p.
/ .
% vm&jci
For perfect
sowing
and rapid
germination
One of the reasons [° r r the * ucc< : ss of j he "Svintyne” is that it sows the seed and fertilizer on a levelled compacted sub-surface,
depth by a top mulch of well pulverised soil—the ideal condition for rapid germination and vigorous early growth.
WILL SOW AS SHALLOW OR DEEP AS DESIRED.
Sizes frorn 1 7 tynes, sowing 8 rows, covering sft.; to 47 tynes, sowing 24 rows, covering 14ft.
Illustrated Catalogue and prices with particulars of easy extended terms sent post free on request.
covered to a uniform
MANUFACTURED BY
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke-street West, Melbourne.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
102-105 North Terrace, Adelaide.
Cor. King & Murray Sts., PERTH.
Distributors for Queensland: H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Streep South Brisbane.


ASK FOR THE
UNIVERSAL
ELECTRIC IRON
r §
Quality materials combined with first-class work-
manship ensure many years of faithful service
for the owners of Universal Electric Irons.
These Irons have no corners or sharp edges to
gather or wrinkle even the daintiest fabric—the
tapered point slips quickly and easily into
pleats and ruffles, so that the ironing is got
through in next to no time.
Heat is thoroughly distributed from heel to point
and along the edges and the large heating unit
allows of much of the work being done with
current turned off.
There’s a UNIVERSAL model to
suit you.
UNIVERSAL
Electric Toaster
For warm, crisp, evenly baked, golden-
brown toast —there is nothing better
than one of these wonderful Universal
Turn-Easy Toasters.
Attractively designed and beautifully
finished a Universal Toaster makes an
object of beauty as well as usefulness.
Opening the bread rack turns the
toast —the Universal taking slices 5A
by 51 inches.
Be sure to have one in the home. Then
delicious, satisfying toast can always
be had instantly during the cold
months.
The Universal Turn-Easy can be
obtained at all Electrical Dealers or
Stores.
h
Factory Agents for Australia and New Zealand:
W. G. WATSON & CO., LTD.
279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
29 Hunter Street, Newcastle.
200 Queen Street, Melbourne.
55 Charlotte Street, Krisbane.
28 Coromandel Place, Adelaide
933 Hay Street, Perth.
lived to become a national institution and
died to be buried in Westminster Abbey.
Yet almost certainly the work by which he
is best remembered was done, with the
exception of “Tess,” before 1888, when Kip-
ling ranked him lower than Walter Besant,
now almost forgotten. When the recogni-
tion of genius, or even great talent, is de-
layed over-long, it is liable to arrive at
last in too overwhelming a wave, and often
the later reaction- is as pronounced as the
earlier neglect.
In the case of Hardy his venerable and
doubtless lovable personality and his posi-
tion as the G.O.M. of English letters have
of course contributed materially to the
almost awe and near-worship with which it
has become customary to speak of him.
When that glamor has worn off will he have
more than a niche in the Valhalla of English
literature w r ho is now being elevated on a
pedestal?
A. H.
David McKee Wright
My first meeting with Dave Wright was
in 1910. We found that we were old
acquaintances, having been parties to a
fierce controversy in the “Aboriginalities”
column. The insulting remarks we had
made about one another whilst discussing
the Maoris came back to us as each bought
drinks for the other, and cemented our
friendship.
Wright had come over from Maoriland
where, after a brief experience of bush life,
he joined the Congregational ministry. His
parishioners liked him—no one could help
liking him—but were shocked at his habit
of mixing with publicans and sinners. The
position became intolerable, and he left the
church. Yet, with all his Bohemian vagaries
in later years, something of the parson
always clung to Wright. Nobody ever heard
a word of profanity pass his lips; and he was
truthfulness personified. One of my striking
early remembrances of him was upon an
occasion of difficulty when I had suggested
to him a white lie which few men would
scruple to use. “But that would not be
the truth,” he said, very gently, but very
firmly. He had a soft Irish voice to which
it was always a pleasure to listen.
As a man of letters he was wonderfully
versatile and fluent. He would write on in
that neat, easy hand of his for hour after
hour—literary article, leader, par., jingle,
poetry. For his serious verse he is, and will
be, chiefly known; and he was a fine poetic
artist at his best. But, in my judgment,
some of his most excellent work was done
in prose. Like so many men who have
written good verse, he had a beautiful prose
style; his leaders were always worth reading
for their diction alone. Before he joined
The Bulletin, and while he was still
battling as a freelance, the Sydney Sun,
newly converted from the nearly moribund
Star, discovered that faculty. David wrote
as a freelance those leading articles which
helped to give the Sun a brightness which
was never deemed possible for the Star.
He, McCulloch (“O. C. Cabot”) and myself
did most of the same paper’s “Moving Pic-
ture Show.” The Sun was then encourag-
ing the freelance writer. My own cheques
were good, but Wright’s were extraordinary,
according to the journalistic standards of
that time.
Allied to his literary enthusiasms, David
had others. He was an expert collector of
gems and china. There was nothing of
dilettantism in the pursuit of these hobbies;
he could give the whole history of the mak-
ing of china, or the story of gems, and still
searched for new knowledge. His research
into early Irish literature was even more
intense. Much of his work was ephemeral
and is already forgotten. His Gallipoli
verses and others, I think, will live. The
man himself will be remembered as a gener-
ous, kindly soul whose only use for an
enemy was to forgive him.
HAROLD MERCER.
Genius and Character
The subject of Dr. Emil Ludwig’s intro-
duction to his Genius and Character (Cape)
is Historical Portraiture, in which he makes
his salute to Plutarch. The book he dedi-
cates to the memory of Thomas Carlyle.
We can take Dr. Ludwig himself as the third
point of the triangle; the book’s quality is
so remarkable that if we don’t bracket him
with Plutarch and Carlyle posterity will
do so.
Reverberating prose about a great artist
who put 1830 France on paper for all time
tells us nothing; in a few reverberations
the great artist becomes a legendary hero
who probabty never existed. But this oddity
who bluntly christened himself “de” Balzac,
—who “stormed into the printer’s in the
morning wearing grey-and-black checked
trousers, with heavy shoes, a red shawl
around his neck, and a slouch hat on his
head, and in the afternoon drove his Tilbury
through the Bois in person while his groom
behind was in readiness should the nag
decide to bolt”; who “had a fashionable
tailor fit a blue frock-coat tight across his
stomach”; wbo “ordered of the leading
jeweller of Paris a cane with a jewelled
head”; who “appeared at tea with the
Duchess of Abrantes and was to be seen in
the evening among the celebrities of the
times in a box of the Theatre des Italiens”
him we can believe in and laugh at;
which makes him real.
What then? This is the full half of the
battle, but portraits have been done be-
fore and with complete illusion. More than
a real figure is necessary to make a his-
torical portrait. The hard part of the task
is the co-ordination of this clown-by-day
and hero-by-night with his times, so that
we shall see not only Balzac but also his
1830 France.
It is here that the magic echo comes in,
the echo which Carlyle and Plutarch and
Dr. Ludwig can make us hear. Balzac is
not treated primarily as a human being,
for all his reality. He is like the fly-wheel
of an engine; the eye of the engineer is
always upon him (hence the delicate analy-
sis of the portrait), but his true job is that
he implies the presence and regular revolu-
tions of all the other wheels. The echo
out of a past that was not ours comes from
him and implies the other sounds so strongly
that presently we subconsciously hear them.
And the engine, the shoddy vapid times,
the great watcher brooding with flying pen
over midnight Paris, 1830 France, is in
being.
In the splendid essay on Leonardo da
Vinci, the founder of the re-born Occident,
a mass of minute detail from his note-
books, pictures and life gradually fills in
a lifesize portrait of him. We see the
heroic painter, an erotic man with a firm
grasp on all the richness of life, all its
pageantry. Student and prophet, painter,
inventor, engineer, worshipper of nature,
mathematician —anything that hoped to
smooth and improve life, he was a sort of
intellectual hedonist. A not very unusual
Renascence figure, I tell myself, until Dr.
Ludwig gives me the echo: “And suddenly,
in the later monologue he writes: ‘lntellec-
tual passion drives away all lusts.’ ”
That co-ordinates for me the strict artist
of The Last Supper and the Gioconda with
the lush splendor of his outward life and
times. An austere man at heart, he is like
that midnight watcher of France, reacting
to and from the lusts, guiding and con-
trolling them when he is at work and seem-
ing to sink back into their arms when work
is done. But unharmed by them; the work
is done. And now that I am made to
realise Leonardo so clearly, the Renascence,
gold and purple in a half-remembered music
of lutes and diplomatic voices, rises in-
advertently round him. I get my historical
portrait.
Cecil Rhodes dead in his tomb on the
African hill top is more to Dr. Ludwig’s
historical mind than Cecil Rhodes fighting
down in Capetown or Jo’burg to put South
Africa in his pocket. “The hills o£ the
Matoppos, which are in reality very low r ,
circle about like gigantic mountains. And
the barren rock continually suggests the
forms of animals. Are not those out yonder
like the backs of some prehistoric mon-
sters? And these, off here, to the right,
like some living creatures, cowering inert?
Then of a sudden, in the midst of this
glare, we see a lunar landscape; craters
and slopes lie about us, curving and con-
torted. Further beyond, on all sides, the
African steppes stretch away until they are
lost to sight. ‘Here lie the remains of
Cecil Rhodes.’ ”
Is not that gigantic Africa in terms of
Rhodes lying dead at its heart? The echo
seems to sound in the words “until they are
lost to sight,” as if they opened a gate
upon the limitless horizons of the Africa
of Rhodes’s dreams in death.
Stanley, Wilson, Shakspeare, Machiavelli,
Bismarck, Voltaire, Lenin, Rembrandt, all
suffer a like analysis, bringing somehow their
genius and character most intimately before
our reading eyes. There are 18 portraits in
the book, and the frame of each is the life,
times, difficulties and triumphs of its sub-
ject. Each subject brings his world with
him. The book is therefore a text-book in
the intimate history which is the only
history that can really fulfil its recording
duty.
HILARY LOFTING.
A Satchel of Books
Silver Nutmegs, by Vernon Knowles
(Holden). Fantastic tales, illustrated by
pictures as weird and clever as the stories.
Adonais (John Lane). A reprint of
Shelley’s elegy on the death of Keats, illu-
strated by Agnes Finder Davis in decorative
line.
The Crustaceans of South Australia, by
Herbert M. Hale (Gov’t Printer, S.A.).
Fart 1 of a handbook prepared by the
Zoologist of the S. A. Museum. Whilst
necessarily technical in character, it will
serve its avow r ed purpose of stimulating
interest in a field that ranges ‘ from the
prawn to the giant-crab.
Babylonia and Assyria, by Donald A. Mac-
kenzie (Blackie). “Our clocks and watches
with their 12 hours and their minutes and
seconds, and our maps with their degrees of
longitude and latitude, are, in a sense, memo-
rials to the wdse men of ancient times whose
cities lie in ruins in the sandy wastes of
distant Mesopotamia.”
The Ordinary Man’s India, by A. Claude
Brown (Cecil Palmer). The author, late
editor of the Calcutta Empress, ought to
know his India and apparently does. An
interesting and representative chapter deals
with the influence of the cinema on Indian
life and thought. India seems to have suf-
fered in much the same respect as Aus-
tralia. “India to-day is surfeited with films
depicting foolish wives, faithless husbands,
gorgeous interiors of palatial mansions,
scenes of gross extravagance and lawless-
ness —all of American origin, but, according
to the Indian’s way of thinking, undoubtedly
British.... I was once told, in all serious-
ness, by an educated and clever Indian
business man, that he was convinced most
women in England went to bed each night
in an intoxicated condition. When I denied
this he remarked: ‘But I know it is so,
I see it so often on the films.’ ” He strongly
emphasises the need for good British films
to correct these wrong impressions.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Jack W.: Let’s wait a few more months
and see... .A.C.W.: You’ve missed that course; we’re
well into the fish now.... Fan: Can’t see any paper
giving your “Madman” an asylum.... Geo. L.: You
haven’t told it well enough... .T.H.N.: Some humor
in it; but that gradual style doesn’t suit The B.’s
limited space... .James G.: A small idea in it; but
it’s lost. ...W. Pen: “Yours Truly” seems hardly
credible in parts; but it gets very close... .H.M.W.:
Too old a rut... .D.G.M.: It’s too small to do that
distance... .L.C.P.: Quite a good ending; but you
go through a terrible lot of desert to get there....
K. Emme: Now, honest, do you think Dad would
have drunk with the lady ?... .M.R.M.: Get off those
stilts... .R.C.H. : Not well enough carpentered. Jobs
like that have to be done extra-well. .. .Omar J.:
A gleam or two in it. Try for “Smoke-oh” with
crisp pars....W. Sale: Tried hard to swallow it,
but we couldn’t get it d0wn....W.E.W.: Isn’t as
graphic as that sort of thing ought to be....W.M.:
Put it through the separator. We want only the
cream... .A.E.8.: You’ll do no good until you put
life —real life—on paper E.A. (Padd.) : No, you
go to sleep over a lively theme... .E.H.S. : Wild
statements and windy words... .Pimpernel: You
don’t create the atmosphere... .A.C.T.: If we printed
it the other 167 people who have sent us the same
triangle in the last 12 months would accuse you of
stealing their p10t... .Muriel A.: You dawdle too
much on the way.... White Lubra: Pars, under con-
sideration; photos returned.... Monia Gap: “Slaugh-
ter” rests with the slain. There isn’t a redeeming
line in it....E.M.; Starchy, and the unrhymed line
does not relieve the stiffness... .Philo: “The Poet”
nearly got a hearing Rin Chin: The idea in
“Visions” was worn out ages ago... .Ripponlea:
Touching lines “To a Lizard” crawl in:—
Though you swiftly slither
Where the grass doth wither,
I know where you’ve crept, I’ll
Bet my boots, sweet reptile.
Fancy you’re a wizard;
Don’t you, little Lizard?
Were I but to fossick
Underneath this tussock;
Did I shake this herb, you
Know I’d soon disturb you.
Like a speeding blizzard,
Travel, little Lizard!
Soon the day will break
When you’ll become a snake,
Though your life began a
Miniature goanna,
That will be exquizard,
Won’t it, little Lizard?
.... Chiller R.: So one man spat in the beer, and
the other unwittingly drank it. You think that
humorous !... .P.M.G.: You drown your story in those
“Wells” L.N.R.: Oxford bags humor out of date.
.... Gene P.: “His fighting days were over. To-
morrow he would be married.” They were only
just beginning, then... .P.S.P.: Because you don’t
like Italians, who “are not real Europeans,” you think
niggers should be admitted to North Australia. It’s
a great argument!.... J.L.W.: “A Lot of Rot” is
well described.... Della C.: A chaotic mass of bad
grammar and weak sentiment... .G.S.T.: With you,
even a flea-bitten dog has to be a “faithful hound.”
No w on der your hero had “a patrician manner and
the brow of a Cssar” !... .E.M.: Painful lack of
humor in the long screed.... Duval: Romantic tragedy
of torn pants fails to move us. .. .A.C.H.: “Exile”
exiled... .T.8.G.: It wasn’t, really... .W.G.8.: “By
the lazy leaves valanced, the wren and the dove”
cannot sleep in Tiie Bulletin. .. .Frank J.: The
verse, also, is “Junk”... .Sophist: It goeth home. .. .
R.T.: In this case “Findings” are sweepings....
K. : Not enough star-dust in it... .W. 8.: “Mus-
ings” dream in the w.p.b F. 5.8.: First time we
heard of a sun-dial throbbing... .L.W.L.: Nearly.
.... D. Bax: Labored stuff. Try for simplicity....
8.R.5.: Two lines gave us joy:—
He came, smelling vilely,
Blithered entirely.
. ...A.C.W.: That sort of soft nothing is best
breathed in the girl’s ear.... A.F.8.: “Pioneer”
can’t find his way into print... .W.T.W.: Very
nearly... .R.A.C.: The boy’s verse is immature. His
sense of color is as gaudy as a Sicilian’s and he
needs to cut his adjectives.... M.F.M.: Why such
phrases as “mute bread and wine” ? We’ve known
the wine to talk but never the bread... .Omar I.:
Trembled on the brink, but fell outward... .J.S.G.:
Lay preacher or parson, the going astray is still too
crude.... E.E.: Much improvement; but not there yet.
. ...C.L.A.: The subject is not worked adequately.
....Nita 0. T.: Why the rhymelessness ?... .C.A.C.:
It took only four days of the city to stir up that
ennui!... .P.R.T.: “The Miss” wasn’t good for a
smile... .H.J.A.C.: Crude stuff... .Peter P.: The wind
has flown 0n... .R.R.P.: Sugary.... Thora J.: Not
enough in it.... Mrs. R. T.: Two would be cer-
tainties if you didn’t force false words into use for
easy rhyme’s sake —that “men of grain,” for instance.
....The Welkin: Those verses will never make you
ring....D. Lil: That last spare line to each stanza
is like a package dropping over the baggage cart
each time it hits a h01e... .R.R.T.: “You are dead
and so am I.” And so is the verse... .1.M.E.: The
lady herself will appreciate the verse more than we
d 0.... Thoru R.: Smooth the awkward corners.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.T.D.: Gallons of Indian ink have been used in
illustrating that co-re. gag.... A.M.C.: Try again,
but take some other subject.... R.P.: Drawing looks
as if it had contracted heat rash... .L.J.: Moth-
eaten wheeze; sketches bumpy and angular....
E.J.M.: Sorry, can’t use... . J.W.: Might suit a
school-paper... .G.C.M.1.: Done already—and better.
L. : The drawing homeward plods its weary way.
. ...K.G.: You have simplified your style until
there is nothing in it....D.P.: A long way behind
the front-rankers... .A.E.K.: Unpolished as yet;
but keep 0n.... J.K.C.: The words of the salesman
have a familiar ring... .H.W.H.: Mediocre sketch
illustrating a pun. Never 1.... J.M.: Too gory....
H.C.M.K.: Undistinguished head studies. .. .Ink:
Notice you are back at Comic Cuts stuff again. Un-
saleable here.... Michael B.: Nellie and Norma went
away disappointed. .. .F.H.: You must have done it
with your eyes shut... .K.T.: Badly drawn....
J.T.H.: Glad you enclosed stamps for the return
of that immense parcel.... D.U.H.: Why didn’t you
send a good Biagnifying-glass with those drawings?


9
■
■
\
mmms
' *
m
mm;?.
is
m
/
im
\
*<a. '
A'
/ ;
m?
k
. t Wjk»
.f@
■■■
/,!% ' I aW
I #J
-o
:, > >■?
I
- *•>.
1
i&li
lIS
r 1
i,
/
r^HF
1
**4«
: m i
hf


The Bulletin
Vol. 49—No. 2505.
February 15, 1928.
HERS—ALL HERS!
“It is expected that the ‘flapper’ franchise will become law in Britain during the present session. There are two million more females than males in the U.K."
THE NEW OWNER: “How perfectly thrilling!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for tlie White Man.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, Weekly:
12 months, £1 1,5.; 6 months, 12s. Od.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. od.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission ol US.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
.“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in the Main Mall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.b ; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, Ijondon, E.C.b;
E. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” blb-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban ;
llhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and,
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 217 Hastings
Street West, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, B.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and J/2nd Street, New York City; Ilotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West 1/lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 701/ Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News
Stand, 51/li South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Walter News Agency, Box 573 Arcade Station, Los
Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
IJong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, S.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. — -T. L. He Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy; M.
Atmaram and Sons, lfh Chatham Street, Fort Colombo;
A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros.. Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London . — G or do n, and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.b.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaperj: — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: boz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional boz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: J/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
27ur$3ul<£iun.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1928.
THE MAN WITH THE RAKE.
Democracy has developed a new variety
of millionaire. In former times if a man
had more resource and energy and perhaps
less scruples than the average he was apt to
set about the accumulation of riches. At
the outset he trusted mainly to club or
sword or pistol; but as time went on he
found there were ways of producing the
same result with less danger to his own
skin, and “business” has ever since consisted
chiefly of inventing new ways or of modi-
fying and adapting old ways of getting
other people’s money into your own pocket.
In the struggle to bring about the transfer
many people went over the odds, and so
came into being half the laws of the world.
But very soon the men who made a busi-
ness of money-grubbing realised that even
Parliament could be turned to use; and
out of that came the Labor party and every
other democratic plan for thwarting the
too little scrupulous money-grubber. Bit
by bit the Parliamentary franchise was ex-
tended until in Australia every sane man
and woman has a vote and no man or
woman has more than one vote. With that
democratic system in force it looked as
though the people would only have them-
selves to blame if they were rooked or in
any way at all suffered injustice.
* * * *
But there never was a time when the
human race did not include a considerable
number of ambitious people who put other
things before wealth of money. Some of
them had a taste for skulls; others for
plump young women; others, again, as time
went on, for postage-stamps, or for shells
or birds’ eggs. Discover anything at all
and the world finds somebody who wants
to make a hobby of hoarding it, with or
without the object of making money out of
it as a side-line. It is therefore not astonish-
ing that the field of Democracy should have
been soon invaded by the Man With the
Rake. Here was something new to acquire;
here was a new currency to accumulate and
hoard and turn to account. The new cur-
rency was the right to speak; for, after all,
the vote is merely the right to say yes or
no. So attractive is this new currency that
to-daj' there is a perfect mania to grab the
right or to assume or bluff the right to
speak for somebody else. All over the
country are men—and women—shouting
at the top of their voices that they and not
the other fellow are the true-blue represen-
tatives of somebody or other.
* >;i * *i*
Now, under any system of democratic
government there must be a good deal of
delegation of powers. The whole mob of
us can’t squeeze into trades hall or council
chamber or Parliament, so there must be
much handing over of votes. This presents
an opportunity just as attractive to certain
types of accumulators and hoarders as ever
the Stock Exchange did. Here, moreover, a
man can succeed by like qualities to those
that will help him to pile up riches in
business. It merely is another branch of
business—one of a score or a hundred new
branches that modern discovery and
development have produced. Its purpose
is to collect votes —these mysterious rights
to talk for other people, the right to come
to decisions for them. There are times, no
doubt, when these rights are sought for the
sake of the money that can be made cor-
ruptly out of them. But there is generally
not any corruptness at all. The Man
With the Rake gets just as much joy out of
accumulating and hoarding votes as the old-
time miser got out of accumulating and
hoarding gold.
s*c
And just as it was necessary to take
severe measures with those money-grubbers
who went over the odds in their pursuit of
their brand of riches, so it is necessary to
take severe measures with their counter-
parts in every branch of communal life. We
must get it out of our heads that Lang or
Bruce or Theodore or Charlton or Bavin
or Hogan is necessarily any different from
any business man—any one of those men
struggling to be millionaires of whom the
Labor party has, very rightly in many cases,
such deep suspicions. Bruce, for example,
as a politician is, it may be fairly supposed,
neither more nor less honest than Bruce
as a merchant. The great difficulty is that,
whereas it was possible to call on Parlia-.
ment to establish safeguards against the
money-grubber, it may not always be pos-
sible to call on Parliament to establish safe-
guards against the vote-grubber, because
the vote-grubber may be Parliament. The
one real safeguard is the referendum, the
direct appeal to the people, and the demo-
cracy that consents to yield that up can
regard itself as lost. Of course the Man
With the Rake will attempt to get this
great safeguard of the direct vote away.
Only the other day we saw how hotly the
Men With the Rakes in the trades unions
were prepared to fight the proposal that
many things in connection with the unions
should be decided by ballot of the members.
And little by little we have seen the Labor
party grow cold on the question of the
referendum, initiative and recall. The
poison has been at work. It must not be
allowed to go any further. Nothing else
matters very much. Almost every other
error that this or any other party makes
can be remedied fairly promptly. But when
a community yields up the right to say Yes
or No, it hands itself over bound to people
who of course say they are friends but are
pretty sure to be enemies, otherwise they
would not want the bonds.
THE CRAZE FOR AN ARTIFICIAL
PEASANTRY.
Always breaking out with passionate fer-
vor in the old place, the Victorian Govern-
ment proposes to settle a hopeful band of
“group settlers” in the neighborhood of
Port Campbell—3o or 40 to begin with, on
an average allotment of some 130 acres
per settler (and family). Proceedings are
naturally to commence with the removal of
the timber, not that the area may be re-
planted with trees to supply Australia’s
assured needs, but that it may be
planted with cows to supply the alleged
needs of persons abroad. Consider-
ing that the little State has spent
some £32,000,000 in recent years in putting
largely unsuccessful people on mostly in-
sufficient allotments, this brisk and cheery
reversion to the old idea typifies the endur-
ing character of the “primary industry”
doctrine. The Closer Settlement Board is
to advance money to enable the micro-
scopic settler to build a house and buy
implements and cows, and as he is to pay
no instalments for 10 years the State will
be lending money up to 100 per cent, of
the security, its own land being most of the
security. After the expiration of the 10
years the farmer is to spread his payments
over 26j years. The money lent for the
house is repayable in 20 years, and that
lent for cows is repayable in five years.
Both the house and the cow will age a
good deal in these periods.
❖ * if: ;je
At intervals there appears in the
N.S.W. press a heading which reads “The
Land Hunger: 1,628,517,406 Applicants for
One Farm.” On inspection the property
proves to be a homestead farm, average
size over 1000 acres, often with a river
frontage and in a well-settled district, no
rent necessary for first five years, lease per-
petual, rent never more than per cent,
on value which is just half the normal, resi-
dential conditions for five years only and
dodgable even then, sub-letting easy, no
reappraisement for 25 years, and a possibil-
ity of conversion into freehold. The first
Labor Government invented, in 1912, this
fool-device for turning the holder of a win-
ning ticket into a sudden capitalist, and
subsequent Governments hold a few annual
gambles through force of habit. It is a
purely Cornstalk trick, though some people
fancy it is all-Australian. The oldest State
having set up this precedent that 1000
acres of fairly good land on easy terms
is a living area, the sowing of mortgaged
folk on 130-acre bits looks unpromising,
even if there is a prospect of complete in-
dependence in years. The best hope
is that some way may be found by which
six owners may sell out to the seventh and
quit.
* * * *
Victoria has human beings and 182}
animals (cattle, sheep, horses and pigs) f o
the square mile, as compared with the
Commonwealth’s average of two humans
and animals. (A trifle should be added
for miscellaneous beasts.) Perhaps it is
because it has the least need that Hogan’s
State has the most intense desire to shunt
people, by specious devices, on to back-
yard spaces, where they are inspected occa-
sionally by politicians who make bad
speeches to them. The present effort is a
minor affair, but it is announced to be the
forerunner of something big. Yet the ruins
of previous big schemes are all over the
shop. According to the Commonwealth’s
official figures Victoria had 85,339 males
employed in farming and cow pursuits for
the year to June, 1923, and only 74,014 dur-
ing the year to June, 1926. The number
of females who were supposed to farm and
dairy fell to little more than half, but appa-
rently more care was taken at the latest
dates to discriminate between farm house-
wives and actual ploughwomen. Anyhow,
1922-23 represented the culmination of Vic-
toria’s tremendous effort to create an arti-
ficial peasantry with loan money, and 1925-
26 represented its downfall, or will repre-
sent it till more figures come in. The fact
that the State is resuming the old business
implies that the Bourbons weren’t the only
people who learned nothing, though they
might be the only ones who never forgot
anything.
* * * *
The latest official estimate (for the year
1925-26) was that the gross output of the
whole Australian pastoral industry was
£1290 for each worker engaged; of manu-
facturing, £872; agriculture, £436; cow pur-
suits, £339. So the case reads that 1000
new cow-men might bring an annual
£339,000 into Australia as payment for ex-
ports, while 1000 additional factory workers
might save an annual £872,000 going out of
Australia as payment for imports. And
manufacturing, among the industries which
have room for wide expansion, represents
not only the line of most profit but the
line of least resistance. It is willing to
grow on quite mild provocation, while
small on-the-land industries, though lav-
ishly manured with loans, show very poor
inclination that way. Manufactures are
nearly 2d times more likely to lift this
country out of the bog of bankruptcy than
either corn or cow. If the Hogans really
have cheap money to lend on long terms
they might think out a way of helping the
small town factory-owner with it. He
won’t be likely to require a moratorium.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Borotra.
The Bulletin tried hard to keep him out;
but he breaks in, after all.
Before he got off the boat that brought
him to Australia he had thrown what the
papers called a bomb. They expected him
to only think tennis, talk tennis, play tennis.
Instead, he announced that he was off to
Melbourne immediately on business. And
he appeared to have neither compunction
nor shame in confessing that he worked for
some company that had something to do
with machinery. So he went to Melbourne,
and astounded reporters heard him talking
business—and talking it with animation, as
though he was really interested in it—
even while the out-going train was standing
at Spencer-street.
Then he returned to Sydney, where he
was to play in championship matches, and
the reporters proceeded to collect such stir-
ring information as the fashion of his mani-
cure; breathlessly they learned that he had
begged the Australian handmaiden to cut
his nails (or it may have been only one
nail— The Bulletin finds that here its great
contemporaries are disgracefully indefinite)
a tiny bit more pointed. Apparently he
formed his own opinion about the great Aus-
tralian papers. At any rate, he called in
the aid of the S. M. Herald to recover
a cap he had mislaid. And when the cap
came back the dear old soul solemnly re-
ported that the visitor had greatly appreci-
ated her services in the matter.
“You don’t think us a nuisance?” at last
the reporters asked the visitor. “Oh no,
no, no,” he laughed; “you have your work
to do the same as I.” Work? So that was
what was the matter with this queer gentle-
man. That was why they found him so
often busy with a secretary. That was why
—“You see,” they heard him explaining,
“tennis is not my life. Oh no, merely a
recreation. I am too busy to play it ver’
much. Six months I may not play at all.
You see, I have my work—that is to come
first. Play, it is to help work.”
Travellers have been coming back to Aus-
tralia to tell us about the wonderful changes,
that have occurred in many European coun-
tries these last few post-war years. They
notice it particularly in Italy and France.
There are evidences of tremendous industry
and of fast-returning prosperity everywhere.
Perhaps, after all, the French Tennis Associ-
ation didn’t send Borotra to Australia to
show us how Frenchmen can play. Perhaps
it sent him to show how a Frenchman can
play and work, too.
4
The Revelations of T. Hoare.
A strange collection of mock heroics and
shock tactics make up the case of the
Stockton Borehole mine at Newcastle, and
the alleged bribery connected therewith, and
the righteous indignation of T. Hoare,
president of the northern branch of the
Miners’ Federation, which ensued. T. Hoare
says he was approached by an individual
who offered him |d. per ton on the output
of the mine provided he used his influence
to keep it working continuously, whereby
the employees would earn good wages, and
their families would live in comfort, and
the coal export industry would collapse a
shade less rapidly than otherwise.
It is the commonest thing imaginable to
provide money to keep an industry closed,
and the employees and their families living
on a scanty and precarious dole, and to
damage the prosperity of the community in
general; in fact, the strike levy is almost a
daily incident. But the idea of anyone
paying to avert these calamities struck the
president as something approaching a
criminal outrage, and his frame shook with
ire, like that of Marmion when Douglas
declined to accept his paw. In the end,
however, he closed with the terms in order
that the iniquity might be probed to its
deepest depths, and collected £597 in 18
months. This he promises to distribute
among the Borehole miners. Somebody has
raised the question whether the gentleman
included the £597 in his income-tax return,
but there has been no reply.
Hoare’s story produced an impression
that the man who had approached him was
dark and wore a concealed dagger next his
skin. A remark alleged to have been made
was that the halfpenny per ton was “only a
fleabite compared to what others were get-
ting.” The dark man with the dagger
remained in the background, but the
statement of R. N. Kirk, a director of
the co., was telegraphed from Tasmania. It
was to the effect that “the colliery had been
subjected to irritation tactics and lengthy
stoppages and the position became intoler-
able”; that “it seemed to be worth while
paying Mr. Hoare an insurance premium to
secure continuity of work”; and that “the
payments were made by me out of my sell-
ing commission from the colliery company
and out of an allowance made to me by the
Broken Hill Proprietary Company, Ltd.,
which was anxious to keep the pit regu-
larly at work in the interest of the steel-
works,” though he did not take either co.
into his confidence.
If it is regarded as a self-evident pro-
position that subscribing to keep work
going is a murky sin, while subscribing to
keep it stopped is a noble act done in the
toilers’ cause, then the passionate demand
for a Government inquiry is justifiable.
But some Governments might reply that if
the murky sin is a success they wish it
would happen oftener.
*
“The Bulletin” Abroad.
Dear Bulletin,- —We do not know a more
fitting way to wish you a prosperous New
Year than to tell you that during 1927 The
Bulletin was quoted 13 times in our
motion-picture “Topics of the Day.”
When The Bulletin reaches us, along
with several hundred other publications, it
soon finds the desk of one of our staff
readers. There every page is perused for
jokes, witty sayings or pertinent editorial
paragraphs that are considered by our edi-
tors to be acceptable for “-Topics of the
Day.”
It is not a small matter to be able to
say that The Bulletin was projected on
the screens of over 3000 theatres, before an
approximate audience .of 15,000,000 people
each week, at 13 different times during the
past 12 months. It is a matter upon which
you should rightfully be congratulated, and
this letter is our method of offering you
our felicitations.—Yours, Timely Films
Inc., New York.


“We Must Be Cracked Up.”
A dreary but familiar item —from Adelaide,
this time—under the heading “The Truth
About Australia”:—
"Proposals to establish a publicity depart-
ment to supply news to English newspapers
of a different type fi-om that usually pub-
lished have impressed the South Australian
Government. ‘The idea is excellent,’ said the
Premier, Mr. Butler, ‘and it would offset
the prominence given to droughts and other
troubles.’ ”
A blushing self-consciousness, such as might
trouble a young lady who had suddenly
lost her clothes in public, seems to afflict
many Australians over this matter, and the
returned tourist is particularly given to
complaint. Still it would be futile for
Premier Butler to spend the last contents,
if any, of his shattered Treasury on a
publicity department. He couldn’t prevent
outsiders hearing about Australia’s loans,
strikes, deficits, droughts and Reds.
The Yankees are great advertisers, and
they are not much troubled by loans,
droughts or Labor Governments. So they
report that politicians are shouting for con-
quest, that U.S. marines are killing people
in Nicaragua without any declaration of
war, that a woman has been electrocuted in
New York, that Hickman cut up the small
girl, that Loeb and Leopold murdered the
small boy, and that Mrs. Preacher McPher-
son ran off to Mexico or some place with
the wrong man.
If the ancient Hebrews had wanted' to
raise a loan in London they would prob-
ably have failed, because very little of what
they wrote about themselves in the Old
Testament was calculated to inspire the
confidence of capitalists, and if they had
written in a different strain the volume
would probably never have found a pub-
lisher.
The best course for Premier Butler or
any other Premier to follow is to do some-
thing so astonishing and original for the
good of his counti’y that it will rush into
print despite all efforts at concealment, and
announce itself in 12 languages.
*
Creating Markets.
Returning to Australia from Europe,
where he had just spent nearly 12 months
in intensive study of his business, H. J. M.
Brelaz, chief chemist of the Federal Dis-
tilleries Prop., had something interesting to
say about co-operative research. “Here [in
Australia],” he concluded, “each problem as
it occurs must be solved by the firm con-
cerned, but in Germany the distiller always
has the Distillers’ Co-operative Institution,
with its vast resources, to fall back upon.”
Here Mr. Brelaz puts his finger on a weak
spot in Australian industrial organisation;
it is a larger spot than even he indicates.
The Australian manufacturer has taken
his course from the Australian shopkeeper.
The shopkeeper, big and little, fights for
his own hand. It is hard to see how
Anthony Horderns and David Jones
could co-operate to increase trade. But
the makers of, say, Australian cement are
mutually interested in showing how cement
can be used in much larger quantities to
the great advantage of the user. This is
done in the U.S.A. And the body of cement-
makers, having interested themselves in the
business of increasing the consumption of
cement, naturally become interested in the
business of improving or maintaining the
quality of cement. Hence, so far as cement
is concerned, there is practically a standard-
isation of the article throughout the
U.S.A.; and various laboratories are main-
tained throughout the Republic to work
out problems connected with this matter.
In Australia the most we have done is to
cut up the territory and allot certain parts
of it to certain producers: we have done
that in relation to superphosphates, for
example. But there is no co-operative
effort, so far as The Bulletin knows, to
increase the use of super., though there is
an enormous field for expansion. And
consequently there is no co-operative effort,
so far as this paper knows, to improve
the quality of the goods or reduce working
costs by improvements in technique.
The ultimate object of the manufacturer
is to make money; and when he fails in
Australia nine times out of ten it is be-
cause he has not created or captured a
market for himself. Mostly the market
has to be created; and the creation
of markets has only just been begun.
Yet we have seen what can be done
in connection with such things as
fruit-drinks; and that has been largely
the work of the American-trained railway
manager Clapp, of Melbourne. In the land
where he learned his business, even the
photographers and florists co-operate to
push photography and flowers before the
public—to suggest new ways of using them ;
to recall old ways of using them; to circu-
late information about the great improve-
ments made generally in these services.
And inevitably that leads on to the estab-
lishment of a body whose job is to see that
the public gets good service.
♦
Courts in Conflict.
“X.N.0.”: After an initial breeze with the
Special Marine Court of Inquiry, occa-
sioned by its clashing with his own inves-
tigation, the City Coroner of Sydney has
delivered his finding in the matter of the
Tahiti-Greycliffe collision, which cost so
many lives. Mr. Fletcher, in effect, blames
both craft, though the prominence he gives
to the Tahiti’s speed and to the fact that she
was overtaking seems to indicate that he
blames the big ship more than the little one.
The Tahiti broke a harbor regulation by
exceeding eight knots, a maximum laid
down not for inter-ship safety purposes,
but because it isn’t a good thing for large
vessels to kick up big waves whjch wash
up on the foreshores and may possibly
damage ferry pontoons and craft lying
alongside them. Justice Campbell attributed
the collision to excessive speed alone. Mr.
Fletcher simply refers to excessive speed
as being the cause of the Tahiti becoming
an overtaking ship. Being satisfied on this
score, he pqints out that the Tahiti should
have given the Greycliffe a wider berth,
and that those responsible for her naviga-
tion “failed to detect that her close proxim-
ity to the Greycliffe would, on a compara-
tively slight alteration in the course of
either, lead to an unavoidable collision.”
In other words, until the event referred
to in italics took place everything was
actually safe. The position created by the
Tahiti, though potentially dangerous still,
required a further element to bring about
a collision. That further element, a course-
alteration, appeared shortly afterwai’ds. As
the only alteration by the Tahiti was away
from the Greycliffe, the immediate cause
of the collision was, on a proper interpreta-
tion of Mr. Fletcher’s finding, an altera-
tion by the Greycliffe. The Coroner refers
to this in what to a seaman are most sig-
nificant words: “It appears that the Grey-
cliffe altered her course to port at an earlier
stage, than was usual, whereas if the altera-
tion had been delayed for a further minute
or minute and a half, the Tahiti would pro-
SETTLING IT.
“As the feud between Tom Walsh and Jake Johanson threatens to rage interminably, and as ballots
are expensive and indecisive, it has been suggested that the Seamen’s Union should get rid of one boss
or the other by resorting to a Communist Hall version of ‘musical chairs.’ ”
Hardy Mariner (at the piano): “Now hold on, you blokes, till I play a few bars of
‘Sons of the Sea, All British Born.’ When, I stop, go for your lives!”
bably have come into view on her port
side.” No question of collision could then
have arisen, and it wouldn’t have mattered
if the Tahiti had been going 20 knots, in-
stead of 12.
In the main, seamen will be far more
satisfied with the Coroner’s finding than
with that of Justice Campbell.
The Outlook for Coal.
The gloom which has blanketed Newcastle,
Maitland and adjacent coal towns has been
accumulating for a long time, and in the
natural and unlucky order of events the
position has come to a sort of climax. The
output of the field was 8.077,689 tons in
1924. It dropped by 439,736 tons in 1925;
by another 380,355 tons in 1926; and by a
further 457,598 tons in 1927, bringing the
yield down to, roughly, 6,800,000 tons. There
is no visible prospect of improvement, and
the unemployed trouble is acute.
On behalf of the Miners’ Federation it is
denied with passionate fervor that strikes
have anything to do with the trouble, which
is ascribed to the increased use of oil and
hydro-electricity, and to the development
of local coal deposits in such countries as
Chile and South Africa. On the other side
of the case it may be mentioned that the
Newcastle-Maitland field has always repre-
sented practically the whole coal export
trade of Australia, and if it became un-
reliable through incessant stoppages, that
might help to incite Chilians and African-
ders to an effort to be independent of the
place. Also the increased use of oil-burning
ships is partly a forced struggle to escape
from dependence on the men who produce
coal, and the men who load it, and the
men who shovel it. Some matters which
may have a bearing on the case are these:
The fall in Newcastle-Maitland production
showed itself definitely in 1925. But the
yields of the other two N.S.W. coalfields and
the yields of all the other States were still
growing in that fateful year.
The exports of N.S.W. coal to places over-
seas, like Chile and South Africa, made their
first big fall in 1922, and never recovered,
but the local demand and the sales to other
States kept up so well that Newcastle-Mait-
land reached its best in 1924. Next year the
exports overseas had another heavy slump,
and simultaneously the sales to other States
fell off a little, and real trouble began.
In 1920 the miner of “best coal” (which is
Newcastle coal) had Is. per ton added to
his wages. The wheeler had a rise of 15s.
6d. per week in 1920, and some more later
on. Both had had previous increases. The
price of coal was lifted in 1917, 1918, 1919,
1920 and 1921, and a little in 1924. As both
price and wages are higher at Newcastle-
Maitland than on other fields, the lifting
may have been reckless.
The State Statistician remarks that “the
great increase in the price of coal since
1916” (in the case of Newcastle-Maitland the
i*ise was from 9s. Id. to 17s. 7d. per ton),
“has been due mainly to decisions of tribunals
appointed by the Commonwealth Government
to regulate wages and prices.” If this in-
duced new countries to go into the coal
business, some have had time to ari’ive now,
and others may be- on the road.
It is quite common, in an ordinary
year, for N.S.W. coalmining strikes to repre-
sent much more lost time than all other
Australian disturbances combined. In the
circumstances the watei'siders and firemen
and others who hold up ships and do their
best to prevent coal-using and coal-carrying
are only following, in a mild way, the
example of people who exhibit similar sui-
cidal tendencies.
The usual proposition is mooted that the
State should find work at road-making, and
“open up land for farmers.” But there are
doubts whether a miner with the ingrained
strike habit would make a good road, and
it is difficult to find the land or the farmers.
And while it is a serious matter to lose
1000 producers who should bring in money,
the case isn’t improved by gaining 1000
non-producers who have to be paid for not
bringing in money. There are no signs that
the export market will be recovered—it is
more likely that most of what remains will
leave. Still, the loss can be made good in
the home market provided the manufacturer
is strenuously encouraged and war is waged
on the importing disease. A multitude of
problems lead, by different roads, to the
necessity for waging war on the importing
disease.
. *
The Craze for Foreign Goods.
Last financial year the Victorian State
Railway Department spent £588,094 on im-
porting articles which could have been made
inside the Commonwealth, and at various
times the conti’ollers produced a rich fund
of literature to explain why this was so.
Nevertheless the statements were made
over and over again that the imported
wares were seldom perceptibly cheaper and
better than local products, and that they
were sometimes dearer and not so good. And
the statements were and are still made with
so much circumstantiality that many
people believed them, and still believe
them. But even if the argument of a little
extra cheapness holds good the case for
imported goods is a poor one in the cii-
cumstances. •
The £588,094 spent on imported railway
material was added to the external debt.
All the great surplus of imports over ex-
ports is added to the external debt as a
matter of necessity. As Australia s exter-
nal debts are never paid, but always re-
newed, £588,094 of new foreign debt will
take out of the country four or five mil-
lions in the course of 50 years, and the
original liability will still be going strong.
When it is a choice between paying a little
more cash for local products or a little less
for imported ones the question of cheap-
ness can be put in a small space. But
when the imported purchase means the
payment of an apparently interminable
annuity in gold, a commodity which Aus-
tralia only gets nowadays by floating ex-
pensive loans abroad, the cheap-imports
Dusiness is loaded.
When a Government buys its goods xn
Australia it generally charges them up to
loans just as if they were bought abroad.
But the local loan is paper, both as regards
principal and interest. And the intei'est,
paid to local people, wanders through a
thousand channels furnishing employment
and paying Federal and State and munici-
pal taxes. There is room for a wealth of
argument in the questions: (1) Is it better
for me to give myself my own bond for
£6, with cumulative interest payable by
myself to me for a period which has no
apparent end, and have a certain amount,
of employment in the immediate present;
or (2) is it better for me to give another
man my bond for, say, £4, with cumulative
interest payable by me to him for a few
generations anyhow, and go without the
employment in the immediate present.
Furthermore, if the £558,094 which the
Victorian Railway Department paid away
(or owed away) for imported goods had
been expended in this country it would
have furnished employment easily for
1000 men. If Victoria has 1000 men sup-
ported by the State on unprofitable relief
works, the amount spent on them should
be set against the alleged saving effected
by the importing habit. The position xs
complicated when the community pays
men in England with borrowed money to
do productive work for it, and pays men
here with borrowed money to do unpro-
ductive work for it because the men in
England have got the other sort of work..
In fact, the position bristles with compli-
cations.
♦
“Cartot” : The limits to which the trafficker
in narcotics will go was shown recently
when the Sydney police seized some pack-
ages of cocaine with which ground-up glass
was found to have been mixed. Adultera-
tion of illegal drugs with such substances as
borax, boracic acid, acetanilide and even
caustic soda is so common as not to excite
comment. Nowadays the drug-addict
knows that when he buys a package of
“snow” from one of the street-sellers infest-
ing Darlinghurst and other parts of Sydney
the chances are about 10 to 1 in favor of
the stuff being half or a quarter cocaine
and the rest something else, his chief
concern being whether the adulterant will
hurt him. The effect of powdered glass
when sniffed up the nose does not have to
be described. Yet the much-vaunted Act
which was to put a stop to drug-trafficking
in Sydney prescribes exactly the same
penalty for the animal capable of a thing
like that and for the unfortunate who has
been driven to drugs by sickness.
*
“O. McKay M.”: Revisiting Westralia after
18 months in the Cold Country, I put in a
fortnight on the Brunswick-Benger-Bun-
bury-Bridgetown-Donnybrook- Greenbushes
circuit. It was a rare joy to run across
an occasional descendant of the English
dumped in these regions by the West Aus-
tralian Land Company in the ’forties. The
roads were peopled chiefly by Jugo-Slavs,
Greeks, Italians and Albanians. After the
first week in the New Balkans I began to
realise the significance of Premier Collier’s
statement that “from June, 1925, to June,
1926, 4335 foreigners arrived in this State —
2356 were Italians, 1166 Jugo-Slavs., 351
Greeks and 33 Albanians.” And the popula-
tion of Westralia is only about 390,000.
♦
“Croson”: Within the 10-mile radius Mel-
bourne will hold about a million people by
the end of 1928. The Board of Works is
supplying water to citizens within 15 miles
—in cases, its mains are 20 miles out —
so it has to cater for many more than a
million. Also it is starting to sewer some
of the outer suburbs, besides supplying them
with water for irrigation. These particular
demands are very heavy in dry weather:
market-gardeners keep their sprinklers go-
ing all day and all night, and fruitgrowers
(there are hundreds of them) put never less
than 100 gallons to a tree at a time, while
they may have to iri-igate 10 times in a
summer. The January rains saved a month’s
irrigating, but one can’t bank on them.
When summer started the big Maroondah
reservoir was full, and so was the smaller
O’Shannassy tank, but huge Yan Yean was
barely half full. The demand is there, oceans
of it, and' the mains are there, or getting
there; but unless rains come at the right
time the board hasn’t got the water to fill
them. I predict that its members will be-
come earnest advocates of decentralisation.


STURDY AUSTRALIAN HIDES
r
are used exclusively in
the making of
MANGROVITE
LEATHER OR
RAW-HIDE BELTING
They are tanned by special process to preserve the natural grain and retain the pliability and
elasticity that makes leather the most satisfactory of all belting materials.
Bring us your belting problems. The expert help of our engineers is freely at your service.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
From Home
To Home
The pleasure of a stay in Melbourne
is enhanced when you make your
temporary home at “Scott’s.”
At this exclusive hotel your every want has been
anticipated and is met in a manner that truly
breathes the atmosphere of the “home from home.” It is com-
plete in every essential that should characterise the City’s best
hotel —perfect cuisine, sumptuous appointments, quietness and
instant yet unobtrusive attention. Direct and intercom-
municating telephones and hot and cold water service in
all bedrooms.
Inclusive Tariff by Day or Bed and
Breakfast Rate.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
Telegrams: “Scott’s,” Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 9012 (4 lines).
Melbourne
hf
rr»g4.
POLITICAL
POINTS.
Australia’s new pawnbroker has a habit
of charging jutht a leetle more at each
advance on the old security. The first Com-
monwealth loan in New York was at 5 p.e.,
and the issue price 994 p.c. That was only
in 1925, and already, while the rate of inter-
est remains the same, the issue price has
dropped to 98. In other words, Australia
is to go on for 30 years paying 5 p.c.
interest on £2 in every hundred that it never
got, and then it will pay back the £2 that
it never received. This money-lending is a
great business.
If six months’ trade figures are a test
Australia will need to borrow some
£51,000,000 or £52,000,000 abroad during the
year which ends on June 30, 1928 —a little
under £34,000,000 to pay interest on old
debts and sundries, and something over
£18,000,000 to pay for excess of imports
over exports. The Bulletin has frequently
suggested that the adverse trade balance
should be dealt with by elaborate restriction,
and in some instances absolute prohibition of
imports. Nobody has proposed any other
device which is calculated to meet the case;
most certainly the Bruce-Page Government
hasn’t. This paper moves the adjournment
of the House to give Bruce-Page a chance
to state its idea of a remedy.
The controllers of the Westralian wheat
pool (more power to their elbows!) rail
grain to the natural port. They are now
doing this in the case of Esperance, which
was kept back for 30 years in the interests
of Pertli-Fremantle. But there are impedi-
ments to their sound policy, particularly
at Albany, which is short of “engine
power, trucks, sheets and storage facilities,”
among other things. In fact, Albany is “the
worst port to ship wheat from in Westralia.”
Yet Nature made it far and away the best.
At the instance of the Country Progs.,
who have kept them in office, the Vic.
Hogans have agreed to take a ballot of
wheat-growers on the question of passing
legislation to establish a compulsory wheat
pool in Vic. next season. A mandatory
pool would be of little use in Vic. without
the co-operation of other wheat-growing
States; moreover, there is no more chance
of getting a bill accepted by the IJppali
Chambali than there was in 1924, when the
Prendergast Labor Government forced a
measure through the Leg. Assembly. How-
ever, the ballot notion may help Country
Prog, candidates for the Upper-cut House.
Queensland cotton is in a bad way again.
Last year Australian spinners took the crop;
this year they say they can’t do it because
of a flood of cheap importations. It looks
as though the crop may have to be sold
abroad ; and with that in prospect the Cotton
Board has cut down advances to 34d. for the
highest grade and five farthings for the
lowest. Primarily, of course, the tariff
is to blame. But it isn’t all to blame. If
we go on pushing up wages and pulling down
hours, a tariff wall a mile high won’t keep
foreign goods out.
A strange item from South Australia: —
Dissatisfaction at the increased taxation is given
as tile reason for the proposed formation of a new
political party. It is suggested that it be called the
People’s party, and that it embraces all shades of
political opinion.
Apparently a white man's party, including
Chinamen and niggers, with a common
desire to let the State file its schedule
rather than pay. The new party shows
every sign of being born dead.
If the 20 Vic. Reps, electorates are recast,
and they ought to be, the State Labor Gov-
ernment will be helped out of a hole. At
Ballan Hogan pledged his party to redistri-
bution of seats on the basis of “each Federal
electorate being divided as nearly as possible
into three State electorates, each returning
one member.” But division of the existing
Reps, constituencies into three would create
worse anomalies than those which exist now.
For example, Henty has nearly 70,000 electors
or thereabouts and Ballarat about 40,000.
Again, a Federal redistribution would give.
Hogan a decent excuse for delaying his con-
tract until 1929.
While the unemployed coalminers of
Newcastle were praying for assistance and
organising deputations some of their fellow-
unionists were busy, as usual, destroying any
odd bits of coal trade they could lay hands
on. The s.s. Iron Knob was due to leave
Newcastle with a cargo of goods made at
the B. H. Prop, steelworks, but it was
decided in misguided quarters that no crew
Avould be forthcoming unless three men who
had persistently disobeyed orders were re-
engaged. So the crew was added to the
unemployed, and the Iron Knob reduced the
demand for fuel by being laid up.
N.S.W. Assistant-Treasurer Stevens half-
apologised the other day because the Bavin-
shaw Government hadn’t a policy with
regard to cash-orders and the like. Why
should a Government be expected to have
a policy with regard to everything? Why
should 12 or 15 men, who have been quarrel-
ling furiously most of their political lives,
pretend to suddenly see eye to eye about
10,000 things? Of course they honestly
don’t agree; the system —this whole system
of party government—breeds hypocrisy, in-
sincerity and plain dishonesty. More than
any other dozen things it is responsible for
politics being where they are, and that’s
pretty close to the gutter.
The “business undertakings” of N.S.W.
earned £068,358 more in the past seveD
months than in the corresponding period a
year earlier, but it cost £863,208 more in
working expenses and £538,107 in interest to
produce the increase, so under that heading
alone the accounts went more than seven
hundred thousand sovereigns to the bad. But
the voice shouting at the keyhole of the
vacant Treasury for all manner of big works
like the Wyangala dam is as insistent as
ever. It says that all the new works will
pay, even if mighty few of the old ones do.
The hold-up of the Lady Loch, one of the
Government vessels which carry provisions
and scraps of social intercourse to the lone-
some men who keep lighthouses, moved Min-
ister of Customs Pratten to look for crews
that will be permanent members of the Fed-
eral Civil Service, instead of casuals sup-
plied or withheld by the union. Seeing that
the navy and the Treasury and a lot of
other Government establishments have per-
manent crews selected solely by the Public
Service Commissioners it seemed logical that
the lighthouse boats should be the same. The
Lady Loch was declared “black” in the
usual course of events, but it can always be
painted white.
W. P. Crockett, M.L.C., who quarrelled
with John Allan, then head of the Vic. Nat.-
Cocky Ministry, and left the Coalition, is
not to be rewarded by the Country Progs,
with an uncontested nomination for his seat
in the House of Landlords-—lie represents
the N.-W. Province. W. J. McCann and
W. H. Kruse intend standing in the same
interest. There is nothing to prevent any
number of Progs, coming out for any elec-
torate—it is one of the redeeming features
of their party. The Progs, are also talking
about putting candidates in the field against
Dr. Harris, the retiring Cocky member for
the N.-E. Province, and Beggs, the taciturn
Nat. delegate for Nelson Province.
“T.L.A.”: All good Australians were
pleased to learn from Randolph Bedford,
M.L.A. (B. 19/l/’2B), that he wears Aus-
tralian socks. But how does the patriot
explain the action of the Queensland Labor
Government, of which lie is a supporter, in
sending abroad recently for 25 raihvay
engines? Australians make railway engines
as well as socks.
_ Miss Eunice Hurst, the young Sydney
violinist, has got back from the United
States with the full text of her story. She
went to Uncle’s country some 24 years ago,
and as long as she was a student who spent
money in the country she remained un-
molested. Then she was offered a professor-
ship in a musical college and was going to
make a little money, whereupon the argus
eye of Uncle spied her out, and she was
informed that the Australian quota was full,
and was going to remain so for some years,
Tliis is one more reason why the Ministry
should harden its heart and tie wings to its
feet, and start a rigid quota system for
U.S. films and other unnecessary things. The
twenty-five millions a year which Australia
scrapes up, mostly out of loans, to pay Uncle
for goods because he won’t take goods in
exchange is the worst of our monetary
troubles, and screams to be wiped out.
Among George V.’s impending troubles is
a letter from A. D. Kay saying that he was
basely deprived of his job on the N.S.W.
Meat Board and diddled out of 44 months’
salary. Kay requests redress on the ground
that Magna Charta “insists that every man
shall have justice done unto him.” This
leads to the question whether John, a very
unpleasant monarch and one of the notorious
uncles of history, had the power to grant a
charter without submitting the document to
Parliament. Then John didn’t rule over
Scotland, Wales or Australia, which tends
to limit the scope of his Charter. Anyhow,
Magna Charta was lost in very far-back
times, though some damaged copies remain
and are supposed to be authentic.
A recent hold-up of a steamer at Adelaide
was over the matter of a cook. It doesn’t
look much, but a cook, backed by a union,
could hold up an armada in these stirring
times. In the first place the food-artist
got away from a ship CNo. 1) on the plea
of illness and, as a sick man, he was pre-
sented with the usual railway ticket to carry
him home. Then he changed his mind and
joined ship No. 2. Before sailing he dc-
manded from the railways a refund of the
price of the ticket, but was refused. Then
lie insisted that ship No. 2 should give him
the money paid for the ticket by ship No. 1.
This didn’t come off either, but the union
resolved that the vessel would remain till
it did come off. Work is scarce everywhere,
and very much so in S. Australia, but the
process of making it scarcer goes on with
extraordinary vigor.
Stanley Melbourne Bruce had a sort of
fifth birthday on the 9th, having been five
years Prime Minister. During that period
he has done very little to the essential trans-
continental railway ; h e has achieved very
little settlement in the N. Territory • he has
neither made the Commonwealth Shipping
Line pay better nor cut the loss ; and he lias
failed to make Canberra popular. He hasn’t
contrived to make exports even balance im-
ports, nor has he imitated Canada by reduc-
ing the public debt; rather it has increased
in a lavish fashion under his fostering care
and that of Treasurer Page. Bruce’s Federal
Arbitration Court has been a calamity, and
his housing and road-making schemes are a
despairful collection. And yet Australia isn’t
nearly so positive as it would like to be that
it knows two men who would handle the
situation much better than Bruce and Page.
In the course of a thrilling week the
A.W.U. delegates at Hobart decided to ask
Bruce to send an A.W.U. man to Geneva
instead of the nominee of the Council 0 f
Trade-unions; denounced that body as
run by Communists; repudiated the present
controllers of the NSWALP and their
Red rules; issued an ultimatum to the
Federal A.L.P.; and resolved to bring out a
Sydney morning newspaper in opposition to
the Labor Daily. The Council of Trade-
unions suggested that the A.W.U. should
be expelled from “the movement.” The
northern president of the Miners’ Federa-
tion asserted that he had received £597 from
the loathsome capitalist to keep a mine
working, and called upon one of ex-Premier
Lang’s Ministers to account for the posses-
sion of “a beautiful mansion.” That gentle-
man asked for a Royal Commission, failing
which lie would issue a writ. Also, Lang
went along to “the metropolitan provincial
of the A.L.P. and made a speech,
He said: ‘ The movement was never more
united and harmonious than it is to-day.”
“Whitaker” testifies that Australia has
climbed into the place of John Bull’s third
best customer. The last year’s figures are
that India took £83,434,000 worth of his
( abou t ss. per head) ; United States
£73.796,000 worth (say, 14s. per head) ; Aus-
[ran a £63,636,000 worth (over £lO worth per
b ? ad 2* at ei i oae considers the vituperation
„, ? Manchester cotton press about our
fiot il fi? S ’ and coraes across articles like
that by the more or less great Harold Cox,
2L*i Bmnburgii Review headed “Pre-
!> e ;f,-? ce Exposed: How Australian
, * 1 e vfll Se • our - l i a< l e ’ A is evident
!w 1 gratitude any-
’ b Australian industries for
rWn’t manafa cturer s benefit. He
pWipr grateful person—in Man-
c ester, anynow.
Australias most successful propagandist
once told I he Bulletin how it was done,
Having decided that spring-onions were a
menace he formed himself into a society and
wrote to the papers that it had been formed
with himself as president. Then the presi-
dent began writing letters to editors and
others, and 19 times out of 20 they produced
spirited replies. As soon as this happened
the public leg-puller knew he was right:
members soon started to come in, and then
he could write 20 letters about the vieious-
spring-onions and get every one of
them signed by a different person and posted
to newspapers and politicians. That
propagandist isn’t in the A.W.U., but his
twin-brother is. It has been discovered that
a score or two of those rousing legislative
proposals which pour in from country
branches just before every A.W.U. confer-
ence are produced on the one typewriter; and
* . kee , nes t noses have tracked that type-
wrlter to Sydney.
The English Statist lately had an article
on Australian borrowing, to the effect that
that country couldn’t have borrowed too
much because it was always wanting more:
if it was true that Australia had recklessly over-
borrowed, the result would inevitably be a glut of
floatin S credits in the internal market,
The paper which can discover such brilliant
reasons thinks that when Australia borrows
it gets money, whereas, except for a few huu-
dred thousands got from America two or
three years ago, it is a generation since any
real money came this way. The Statist
ought to consult Mrs. Smith. Smith gets
good wages, but if you told Mrs. Smith that
she must therefore inevitably” have plenty
111 her . P ars< h she would reply that unfor-
tuliately Smith brought Ins wages home in
beer, not money.
. The sectarian ghost is taking a busy hand
“! the United States Presidential election
campaign. It has been made known to all
w ho didn’t know it before that Governor
Alfred Smith, of New York State, who
seemed the most likely man to lead the
Democrats to victory, is a Roman Catholic,
an d his prospects are regarded as more or
blighted. In retaliation it has been pub-
lished that Herbert Hoover, of lowa, the
hope and joy of the Republican party, was
married by an R.C. priest 29 years ago,
though he was a Quaker and his bride an
Episcopalian. The Roman Catholics (IS]
million communicants) are the strongest sect
in the republic, Methodists (8f millions) and
Baptists (81 millions) being a poor second
, J hll rf R -°- kas ever had a look-in
f or , tke Presidency, and it has become a fixed
traditioni that no man from the South need
f pply V Seventy-nine years ago Zachary Tay-
Louisiana, was elected, but he died
yea r from astonishment, and the chances
tke ut l ended Wlt h bim -
The Coates Government in Maoriland is
n °t having much luck with its attempt to
-establish enormous hydro-electric power
plants in the North Island. The success of
the pioneer plant at Lake Coleridge, which
supplies Canterbury province with cheap
current, was immediate and unmistakeable.
The reservoir in this case is a huge and ex-
tremely deep lake hemmed in by mountains,
The North Island schemes are river-damming
enterprises, and the dam across the Waikato
at Arapuni, intended to supply Auckland
P rovi nce, isn’t giving the head of water ex-
P ected because of erosion through the loose
soil that banks the dammed area. The Man-
gahao dam, which is the hops of Wellington
P rovlDce > dams the water up all right, but,
as a recent dry season has demonstrated,
tllcl ’ e isut enou 8 k water available to keep a
workin S head in action.
It has been officially stated that execu-
tions in the first four years of the Russian
revolution numbered 1,766,000, and a
German authority, by way of postscript,
reckons the figure now as 3,041,000, includ-
big a million executed by the police without
trial. It is a serious matter to be a political
opponent in that bleak country. Doctors,
teachers and those loosely classed as “intel-
lectuals” were scragged by hundreds of
thousands on the ground that they must be
hostile, and the unscragged did their best to
get away, so the average mental calibre
isn’t high, and the brass-liats of the revoiu-
tion would hate that it should be. The
policy which prohibited private internal
trading was abandoned in 1921, after very
much hanging had failed to make it work-
able, and the Government monopoly of
external trade is now being abandoned also,
after very much more hanging. The “re-
public” is littered with dead illusions which
have been watered with blood and manured
with bones.
The basic-wage principle is utterly un-
sound. Increases granted are taxes on in-
dustry pure and simple, and they are taxes
imposed without the slightest reference to the
ability of industry to pay them. The in-
crease in the Federal basic wage does not
come to the rescue of the victims of Langism.
i t merely ameliorates their lot for a little
while until its own effect as a price-raiser
cancels out the benefit. Every time wages
are raised without regard to the value of
services rendered, every time hours are re-
duced by politicians, every time industry is
loaded with a new tax of any sort, the living
standard of the worker commences to sag,
inevitably and ruthlessly.
PETTICOAT RULE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The mover of the Address-in-Reply in the House
of Commons declared the effect of the Franchise Hill
which confers the vote on women of 21 would be to
transfer the results of general elections from the
knees of the gods to the laps of the goddesses.”
In men’s affairs, long ere the day
Had come for skirts and bodices,
At least they had a bit of say,
These high Olympian goddesses
Who gave their wordy passions play
In Iliads and Odysseys.
They rode some storms, but in the end
’Twas mostly from the pillion ;
No cooing voice their lords could bend
To stay the doom of Ilion.
Or help to any hero send
When he was gone-a-million.
Though Juno, Pallas, Venus strove,
Supreme ’mid female trinities,
And did their best for any cove
For whom they felt affinities,
They hadn’t equal votes with Jove
And other lie-divinities.
It lies en r/ounasi theon —
That was the strong and stout of it
Whene’er an issue was unknown
Or prophets felt a doubt of it.
A busted proverb now, you’ll own,
With all the stuffing out of it.
When faction ballot-boxes bloats,
And heroes, mad with zest of it,
Homerically spar for votes
And place, and all the rest of it,
It isn’t pants but petticoats
Decide who gets the best of it.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS
Harry Lilley: “Stellsby” doubts if any
person would be game to swim across Port
Jackson nowadays (B. 25/l/’2S). In the
year ISSI I swam across from Boar’s Head
to Blue’s Point and back again. Three days
later an outsize in sharks was caught a few
yards from the spot where I touched the
rocks before returning.
s': * * *
“A. Jack”: There may be something in
the theory that lead is a possible cure for
cancer. At any rate, of the 106 cases treated
at the Broken Hill hospital during the past
10 years only three were underground work-
LOTS OF BUSINESS.
“D’you hear Payne advertised for a wife?”
“No, what happened?”
“Got ten replies from, men saying he could have theirs.”
ers. The great majority of the patients
came from out back.
* * * *
“C Q.” • According to the Communist,
the Australian worker is a serf. In
my village the son of a small builder has
just won’a scholarship entitling him to five
years’ free tuition at a technical school; the
plumber’s son has won a prize for literature
against 1500 competitors, and this year is
o-oing for a scholarship at the University;
and the male offspring of a casual laborer
lias come top in an examination which pro-
vides him with his next two years’ high
school education for nix.
* * * *
“S M” • It grows monotonous when one
reads ten times In the same page : “Defendant
pleaded that he had been drinking.” It
would be a blessed change, though Heaven
only knows what effect it would have on the
sentence, if some assault and battery person
assured his Worship that he was a Reclia-
bite of many years’ standing, a non-smoker
and a vegetarian. He might get off altogether.
On the other hand lie might get the limit
because his Worship felt insulted.
:J: sH H* *
“Buick”: “Nitric” (B. 12/l/’2B) is wrong
in his statement that the Queensland police
could not arrest the Camooweal motor-
thieves because they were in the Territory.
They were in Queensland, but the police
officer found it was impossible to take the
men and the stolen goods. To take the men
meant a risk of not being able to produce
the car and the goods at the trial. The con-
dition the car was in made it impossible to
take both; therefore the men were left
behind with half a day's supply of water.
They were found next day asleep on the
bank of the Georgina River, six miles away,
and duly arrested. I was in the aeroplane.
* * * *
“Dipso”: “Light Horse’s” par. (B. l/2/’2S)
on the use (or disuse) of the lance in war-
fare reminds me of the only time I ever saw
it in action. We were patrolling over the Wadi
Ghuzzeh after the second Gaza stunt. On our
right was a troop of the 7th Regt., and in
front of them, some distance away, a small
body of Turkish Lancers on little, grey
ponies. The latter were drawn up in ap-
parent readiness for a charge, but when they
did get going it was in the opposite direction
with the 7th in hot pursuit. Later that
afternoon the pursuers came riding back to
camp, each carrying about 12ft. of lance
and helping to escort a mob of dejected
Jackos. Those lances made splendid
“bivvy” poles.
:!< !|s * *
“Matakitaki”: There are more ways than
one of catching a train. On our arrival at a
small station on a sleepy Victorian line I
noticed a telegraph-boy handing the engine-
driver a telegram. After about 10 minutes
spent in shunting we were ready to. leave and
the guard announced the fact, but instead of
pulling out the driver got busy with an oil-
can on the exterior of his engine, pausing every
few moments to cast anxious looks up a long,
straight road that led to the station. Pre-
sently a car hove in sight, travelling at a
terrific speed. At the station a commercial
traveller jumped out, and after a few words
with the driver scrambled into our compart-
ment. I remarked that it was a close shave
for him. “Yes,” lie admitted. “I knew it
would be touch-and-go, so I wired the driver,
whom I know, from a township 50 miles
away, ‘Bet you a pound I miss your train.’
He’s won.” added my bagmvn contentedly.
* * * *
“Murkah” : Some words sound odd over the
telegraph. Recently, sending to Brisbane, 1
struck the word “pawpaw.” The receiver
“broke” me. Went over the word a second
time, but again he stopped me. I repeated
it carefully. “Haven’t you ever eaten paw-
paw?” I asked. “My oath!” he tapped;
“but I never heard ’em before.”
* * *
“8.Y.N.”: Returning to France seven
weeks after the
Armistice, we
boarded the Bou-
logne-Cologne ex-
press for Charleroi
and presently found
ourselves hung up
at Douai. After
tea an officer came
along and told us
we would be there
till daylight; “so
you must see the
Old Year out the
best way you can 1 ,
boys;” We took him
at his word. A
party went off for-
aging and presently
came across a cov-
eredi-in truck full
of beer consigned
to the E.F.O. can-
teen at Charleroi.
There were 30 bar-
rels of beer in the
truck, and 27 cattle-
trucks of troops on
the train, so it
wasn’t long before
the truck was de-
spoiled of its entire
cargo. I found an
empty van some
distance away
marked “Return to
Boulogne at once,’*
and swapped its
label with the beer-
truck. Our train
got under way
about 3 a.m., and
the singing might
have been heard for
miles. A Third
Bivvy corporal who
was standing in
the doorway of our
truck was asked to
oblige with the
name of a station
into which we had
just pulled. “Mons,”
he announced—
“the place where
the war starred. v
“And where the
beer finished,”
added a Digger re-
gretfully.
“I. S. Land”: The Samoan natives, shrewd
in some respects, are remarkably credulous
of any political rumor. Recently a story
was circulated that General Richardson, the
Administrator, had sold Samoa to Maoriland
with the consent of a native who had been
elevated by the Administration. The papers
concerning the sale, so the rumor ran, had
been buried under a strip of concrete road-
way laid for experimental purposes. Nothing
would convince the natives that their legs
had been pulled until the whole of the con-
crete was torn up and thoroughly examined.
❖ ❖ H* #
“Naklioda”: Some of the numerous Mel-
bourne residents who have never seen an
abo. (B. l/2/’2S) are having this Omission
in their education remedied, a Darwin couple
having brought down their Binghi help
while on leave. Biddy, who is over 40 but
quite beautiful when she smiles, visited the
Tivoli recently and attracted far more atten-
tion than Max, Moritz and Akka, the Holly-
wood monkeys, who occupied the stage. The
manager of a picture-palace —Biddy's articles
of association provide for two visits a month
to the movies—was so delighted with her
that he pressed on her the freedom of his
playhouse during her sojourn. But the
greatest sensation she caused was when her
sleek black head suddenly emerged from
under the surface of the Yarra, where she
has her daily soap and swim, just as three
fishermen had settled down on the bank.
THE CONQUERING COCKTAIL.
“Fine type of woman, Mrs. Jiggis-Bright, isn't she?
“Yes, and such a wonderful cook! Two of her oyster-
cocktails and you don’t care whether dinner is on or off."
They nearly fell into the stream. Inciden-
tally, Biddy has taught the local white Aus-
tralian small boy a thing or two, including
the fact that there are clams in the bed oi
the river which are very good to eat.
* * * *
“P.X.” : Before father's day the big Syd-
ney Ferries Co. was not interested in the
Parramatta River service which it has now
giv*°n notice to drop above Gladesville bridge.
In the early ’nineties a privately-owned fleet
of midgets skimmed the waters of the I arra-
matta and Lane Cove—the Pheasant (she
was reckoned a floating palace), Halcyon,
Gannet, Thrush. Sparrow and other biros;
and old Capt. Mance, who had then been on
the river for half a century, left tlio_ wheel
to the boy while he went round collecting
fares from his passengers. The heads of the
service for years were Jeanneret and Joubcrt
—the latter the Frenchman who taught Aus-
tralia a good deal about running exhibitions.
Twice or so a day the boats pulled in at
Circular Quay; but mostly they pushed up
to the foot of King-street. Chiswick, the
first of the wharves which have now been
cut out, after close on 100 years of service,
had less than half a dozen houses down to
3890. But some pretty well-known men
climbed up and down those Chiswick stairs—
Hubert Murray, later to become Adminis-
trator of Papua ; little Dr. Renwick, politi-
cian and philanthropist; W. S. Dowel, long
M P for Tamworth ; and, for a while, Rich-
mond (Dick) Thatcher, a flaneur of his day.
Jfc % *
“Nakhoda”: Australia has nothing like
the International Sleeping Car Co., commonly
known as the Wagons-lits, which is reported
to have arranged a £25,000,000 merger with
Thos. Cook. The Wagons-lits pursues the
modern tourist with all the comforts of
civilisation into some of the most barbarous
parts of Europe and Asia, provided a Gov-
ernment will furnish it with rails to run on.
Until the Bolshevist upheaval it supplied the
only means of getting across Siberia without
being eaten • alive by fleas. Its magnificent
carriages, replete with baths (hot and cold),
nurses and interperters, took the foreigner
across the land to schedule time. The Russian
loitered four or five days behind scratching
himself in the caravans supplied by his own
Government. When I did the trip I took
my chance with the fleas and moujiks, and
did not regret it. That experience helped to
make clear a lot that has happened in
Russia since.
* * * *
“Ess”: Near the border end of the new
Kyogle fN.S.W.) railway line the name
Fawcett recalls the identity of an old-time
squatter, known as “Daddy” Fawcett. He
was once riding with .lames Iv. James,
another local identity, when the latter re
marked: “We’re getting a good many
selectors around here now, Mr. Fawcett
—and I notice they all call you ‘Daddy.’ ”
The other smiled. “These bush fellows
have names for all of us,” he said. “Not
all of us,” • James dissented, a little
pointedly. A few minutes later the pair
came on a blackfellow hunting for ’possums,
and James asked him his name. “Me Jacky
.Tacky,” said the darky. “You Jimmy
Jimmy?” he asked in the next breath.
James stared in amaze, but Fawcett merely
grinned, for that was his neighbor’s sobri-
quet among the whites, though the blacks
generally called him “Two Pfeller Jimmy.”
The latter glared at the nigger. “I’m Mr.
James James,” he corrected stiffly. Jacky
chuckled. “All right,” he said affably, “me
Mr. Jack Jack.”
* * * *
“Trevdee” : Some of these cars are liable
to go to pieces when their time comes, as
dramatically as Q. W. Holmes’s “one-hoss
shay.” I know four Melbourne fishermen
who were wont to drive to their angling
grounds in a venerable Ford with so many
additional parts, such as jam-tin axles, wire-
bound wheel-spokes and hurricane-lamp
lights, that its real brand was a baffling per-
plexity to the uninitiated. Naturally they
sustained numerous breakdowns, but they
were hardly prepared for the completeness of
the final catastrophe. As they were emerg-
ing from the yard of a country hotel the
steering-gear misbehaved and their convey-
ance, striking a gatepost, broke up like the
interior of a thermos-flask. Rightly esti-
mating that their ’bus was beyond hope of
further repair, the owners headed for the rail-
way-station. For days the publican could be
heard heaping curses on their heads for
blocking up his gateway—all he got from
the wreckage was one hurricane-lamp and a
honker which wouldn’t blow!
* -4= *
“X.D.”: An old-established specimen of
criminal jargon appears to have fallen into
disuse, judging by the tact that it had to be
explained when it cropped up in a Melbourne
court the other day. According to the evi-
dence a man rushed in to a sly-grog shop and
told the proprietor that there were “two
demons” outside. He wasn’t suffering from
the effects of pinkie, either. He was only
intimating that a couple of police were cruis-
ing about in the offing.
* * 4= *
“Waranbini” : Two items that are stocked
by nearly all far-back stores are veils for
men. and horses. A man’s veil is a netted
affair which hangs over his hat-brim; Ins
moke’s is a piece of basil cut into strips
and worn from the forehead, both in work
and when in the paddock. Nearly every
traveller and traveller’s horse wear veils
When flies are bad. Green, a forest ranger,
sported a white cork helmet, from which
hung a circular net a foot deep. The timber-
getters called him “Mahomet.” One day
his horse bolted, and he lost the headgear
in the timber. A week afterwards lie saw
Yabbering Billy with the helmet on his
head and the net round his waist, proudly
ranging his ’possum forests. Next day
“Mahomet” bought a panama.
* * * *
“Elgar”: “H.F.” (B. 19/l/’2Bf says
rightly that coffee is a far superior beverage
to tea, but there are drawbacks about his
contention that the berry must be roasted
and ground just prior to using. For instance,
the farmer takes a cup of tea and a snack
about 10 a.m. and another about 3.30 p.m.
His wife has too much else to do to grind
the berries for a billyful of coffee four or
five times a day. And the employer would
not be overjoyed to see his factory-hands
knock off at 11.45 a.m. to grind up the
coffee for lunch. My wife and youngsters
prefer tea, and I haven’t the cheek to ask
the old woman to grind coffee specially for
me, so I just pour boiling water on the
coffee essence in the cup, add milk and sugar
—and enjoy it. But then my taste has never
been cultivated.
**■*•■*
“Pakeha”: There is a vein of mysticism
in the Maori blood that renders the race ex-
tremely susceptible to new religions.
Ratana, who combines modern business
methods with a richly-flavored brand of
evangelism, is the prophet of the moment.
He opened a new temple at Wanganui pa
the other day, and a bishop all the way from
Nippon, one Jugi Nakada, beamed graciously
upon the ceremony. But when he rose to
speak there were twinklings in the eyes of
even the most recently converted of Henares.
The sage from the land of saki took as his
theme the evils of strong drink—and every-
body in the congregation knew that Ratana
had been fined for being blotto while in
charge of a motor-car.
* !|: * • *
“Cartot”: Why is it that State Govern-
ments insist on their tram-drivers and -con-
ductors being so unsuitably and uncomfort-
ably garbed? The dark-blue serge of which
the uniforms mostly consist not only collects
dust and grease in generous quantities, but
it fades perceptibly in a few months. It
can be washed, but after it has made one
or two trips to the laundry it loses its dye
and takes on either a reddish or a violet
tint. Material such as the light khaki cloth
from which some A.I.F. uniforms were made
could not only be kept clean by washing
whenever necessary, but would possess far
more lasting qualities. In summer it would
be especially welcome.
REFERENCES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They’ve gone and put old Bill away,
And safe and sound and deep ’e lies;
And those that read ’is tombstone may
Be finding out, to their surprise,
Just what a shining bloke ’e was.
Unless they tumble to the game
They'll maybe pass ’is grave, because
They’ll wonder if it is the same.
“A loving ’usband!” Bet y’r life,
No matter what the next ’un says,
’E teas attentive to ’is wife;
But, blime! Bruises ain’t bouquets!
And though I know there’s different sorts
Of love, old Bill—-’e looked a coot,
Explaining to the flaming courts
’Ow love could sink an ardent boot.
“Good father,” too.... well, I diinno!
It seems to me as if that skids
Right off the rails ; old Bill ’ud ’oe
Like ’ell into ’is God-forbids
When, clumsy-like, they spilt ’is beer;
And no one ever ’eard the news
Of ’ow ’e kissed and called ’em dear,
Or cut the ’ares to buy ’em shoes.
“Good father, loving ’usband”... .Strike !
It’s funny putting that across.
But, still and all, I s’pose it’s like
A sort of ref’rence from a boss ;
This world ’as sacked ’im and ’e’s gone
To look around for other lurks;
’E gets ’is refs, and passes on—
No use us gumming up the works !
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


Gregor”: My long-distance traveller for
enlistment (B. 25/l/’2B) was employed by
a gold and platinum mining company in
Northern Siberia when the call came. There
was little chance of reaching England by
going westward, so he journeyed down the
Amur River and crossed from Vladivostock
to North America. Then he went south to
San Francisco, took train to New York and
eventually reached London. Hardly had he
been accepted and placed in an officers’ train-
ing-camp when the military authorities, dis-
covering that he could speak Chinese, took
him out again and put him in command of
one of the units of the Chinese labor corps.
There he stayed, making roads and railways
in the rear of the armies, until the Armis-
tice.
* * * *
“Windsor”: Great Britain possesses more
than 1200 benevolent, scientific and religious
societies; there seems to be hardly a cause
or cult or hobby or deserving class that
isn’t represented in the list, which ranges
from the National Potato Society to the
Henry Bradshaw Society for Editing Rare
Liturgical Texts, and from the Drinking-
fountain and Cattle-trough Association to
the Morden College for Decayed Merchants
There are societies for the benefit of stamp-
collectors and discharged prisoners, Arme-
nians and deep-sea fishermen, Buddhists and
cab-drivers, confirmed inebriates and dis-
tressed Protestant ladies. There are societies
for protecting ancient buildings, preserving
the Irish language, reading the Scriptures to
soldiers, preventing war, hastening early
closing, exploring Egypt and Palestine, en-
couraging croquet, converting Jews to Christi-
anity, guarding against premature burial,
battling against vivisection and popularising
the study of Greek poetry. The most mas-
sive title is the Marine Society for the Equip-
ment, Maintenance and Instruction of Poor
DADDY’S GUESS.
“What would you think, daddy, if someone were to run away with me?”
"I would think that someone had been grossly misled about the amount of money
I possess.”
Boys of Good Character for the Royal Navy
and Merchant Service; the shortest and per-
haps the quaintest, the British Goat Society,
* * * *
“Biliai”: Many years ago I remember
hearing Ada Reeve sing “You Can Do a Lot
of Things at the Seaside That You Can’t
Do in Town,” but I never realised the truth
of the proposition till quite recently. In
our ocean-side village the bald-headed owner
of a week-end shack spent last Sunday
morning mowing his front lawn, garbed only
in a suit of cellular underwear and a pair
of nose-pincliers ; his 16-stone wife aided and
abetted him, in a one-piece bathing suit.
Tvo doois away, a motor party, entertained
friends all flay in a state of Mshabille remini-
scent of Eden. I have viewed totally nude
savages, both male and female, in Papua,
without any feeling save that of admiration
for their picturesqueness and physique,, but
the sight of these middle-aged Sydney citizens
and citizenesses who imprudently discard the
vestments of that civilisation of which they
are the product is calculated to make any
artist shudder. Nor is it the eye only which
is revolted. The braying of klaxon horns,
the wailing of gramophones and the blatting
and guggling of loud speakers have caused
the elderly couple who were our next-door
neighbors at Resthaven to sell out. Before
they left they ironically altered the legend
on the nameplate to Inferno.
* * * *
“Yabbie”: During 1918 in France, I
listened to the reading of a lo:«g-w 7 inded
army oi'der w T hich
might have been styled
“ ‘Don’ts’ for Pri-
soners of War.” If
captured, it was im-
pressed on us we must
not mention where our
unit was situated, how
things were going at
home, and so on. About
a week later, poking
about in a German
dug-out near Chipilly
Ridge, I found a Fritz
army order couched in
identical terms with
the British exhorta-
tion. I don't know
which side borrowed it
from the other, but
each adopted the de-
vice of including
among new prisoners
secret - service men,
made up as enemy pri-
soners, whose job it
was to pump the talka-
tive. Viewing some
Fritz prisoners one
day through the wire
near Poperinghe, I
said to my cobber:
“There’s a typical
Boclie over there.” The
man indicated heard
my remark and en-
lightened me with a meaning wink. Next
day, when that particular draft of prisoners
had left for the base, I spotted him in
Aussie uniform at the canteen.
+ if * !|!
“Pilot”: “Joystick” (B. 25/l/’2B) con-
siders the fuel consumption of the Wright
Whirlwind engine “phenomenal” at 10 to 12
gallons an hour, but 1 can assure him that
British amphibians as flown in this country
use about twice as much and attain nothing
like the cruising speed of a Ryan monoplane
—over 100 miles an hour. All good Aus-
tralians would like to see a British or,
better still, an Australian machine (such as
Wackett’s Widgeon) accomplish the flight
across the Tasman, but cost and reliability
have to be considered. No seaplane or amphi-
bian yet devised would have more than the
barest chance of rising from the ocean swells
of the Tasman Sea if once forced down, but
a wireless set can at least report progress
and imminent danger. The lack of efficient
wireless communication, although a set had
been fitted, is to my mind the worst feature
of last month’s tragedy.
* * * *
“Gregor”: In the same class as Mt. Gam-
bier’s underground cavities (B. 29/12/’27)
are the uncanny “whistling holes” in the
Nullarbor Plain, traversed by the Trans, line.
Most of these are openings in the earth’s sur-
face, from six inches to a couple of feet
across; and if you peer into them there is
nothing to be seen except appalling darkness.
A dropped stone will not return the faintest
echo. At times, generally about a scorching
noon, a strange whistling sound comes from
the holes, and if a light stick or even an
empty tobacco-tin is thrown into the opening
it will be hurled into the air and kept
dancing there. The explanation is that the
boles are openings into vast subterranean
caverns extending probably for miles. Dur-
ir fg the cool nights these become filled with
air at ordinary pressures. In the daytime,
when the sun starts to warm the ground, the
air expands and rushes through the openings
until the pressures are equalised. None of
these caverns has yet been sounded,
* * * *
“Runa”: Quite a lot of people speculate
on what they would do if they were suddenly
to inherit a fortune, but probably few would
emulate a little woman living in 'an intensely
respectable Maoriland suburb who un.-x-
-pectedly came into a few thousands the otlmr
week. After cashing the first considerable
cheque she had ever handPd in her life
she wag going home with the money in her
bag when she passed two extremely °rubbv
children playing in the street Somethin*
prompted her to stop and give them a hand*
ful of silver. They fell in behind their beue-
fnrmpu *ll esCort ’ nd , l1 ?'
InnTfl.h , T ™ children they met of their
Cvi S' Z,?„n her dlsbur . somen ts to what
• e ., e l ual J. y de servmg cases soon
Ti/imn , b °dyguard materially, and
, * ba P r e i SGy exba asted the
1 L S f lted <-n ) half-notes. It wrnsn t
1 „! e ,T the 1 ,P ol i lce had the . lr attention
attiacted to an elderly woman with a flushed
MISSED HER HIT.
HILDA: “That Woolbales girl called me some awful names yesterday. My, I was mad.”
BERTHA: “ Dreadful! You would be, darling.”
HILDA: "Yes, and it s not as though I didn't know them. I can’t imagine why I didn’t
think to call her them first.”
face, her hat awry and an air of stern pur-
pose about her, who was apparently endeav-
oring to induce passers-by to accept pieces
of paper, while a rabble consisting of dirty
children, acquisitive loafers, elderly drunks,
mothers with prams and numerous others
followed with much noise and impediment to
traffic. A halt was called, and the leader of
the procession led gently into the police-
station. At first her explanation met with
utter disbelief, but as she produced her
proofs of affluence and was obviously sober
and respectable, the Law merely looked
severe and advised her not to do it again.
She hasn’t, and to-day one of the things
she cannot reconcile with her retired and
ordered life is how she ever did it at all.
* * * *
“Ess”: In the city one often sees a notice
on an office door, “Back in five minutes.”
But time in our little backblock town isn’t
counted in minutes. I went to the saddler’s,
on the corner, and found the shop locked up,
and a dated notice stuck on the door: “Be
back in three months.” It was shearing time,
and the saddler, who is also bootmaker and
water-bag manufacturer, was following the
sheds and touring the district generally
for leathery jobs that didn’t come to the
shop. His lengthy absences don’t incon-
venience the townsfolk, who are left in good
repair; but the visitor can’t sit on the door-
step and wait three months to get his boots
half-soled or his saddle counterlined. By
following directions, however, he can pick up
the travelling saddler on the road, perhaps 50
miles away, and have his repairing done
under a tree by the trackside while he waits.
* * *. *
“Cosmo”: At Crookwell (N.S.W.) the
other day a Yankee commercial traveller
exceeded the speed limit, didn’t draw close
enough to the kerb or broke some other
traffic regulation. A John was down on him
immediately. “Where do you live?” inquired
the policeman. “In Amurriker,” said the
motorist; “I’m a traveller.” “Well, come-
along,” said the officer. Finding the magis-
trate disengaged he charged his captive
straightway. The delinquent, who admitted
his offence, was fined 285., and paid up like
a little man. Moreover, he bore no malice.
“I strike this burg,” he said, “am brought up
and fined and get away again in half an
hour. Some going that, I’ll tell the world!”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Australian Aerial Services per-
formed another fine feat the other day. An
urgent ’phone message came from Hay
(N.S.W.) for a flying ambulance. A six-
passenger ’plane was quickly converted and
left Coode Island, the Melbourne depot, at
8 p,m,; the patient was in the hospital
by 10 the next morning. The pilot brought
home an unusual souvenir—a wedge-tailed
eagle which attacked him in mid-air.
* * * *
“Cartot” : One of the chief difficulties in
connection with the construction of the
Sydney Harbor bridge is the allowance which
must be made for the expansion of the huge
masses of metal under the influence of the
heat of the sun’s rays. This expansion will
amount to a maximum of 7in., calculated from
temperature records extending back over a
long period of years, while there will also
be a deflection of about 4in. In order that
there may be no distortion of the railway
lines or of the bridge itself as a result
of this expansion, the bridge is being con-
structed with a greater cross section than is
possessed by any other work of the kind in
the world; this will allow it to be fully
loaded at the moment of maximum expansion.
* * * *
“G.F.”: The bridging of Sydney Harbor
is a reminder that the North Shore, for all
its matchless views and inviting water-
frontages, made little or no progress for nearly
three-quarters of a century after its beauties
were first noted by Governor Arthur Phillip
iu January. 1788. Even in the ’sixties settle-
ment had gone little beyond a few scattered
houses and some small shops which formed
the suburb of St. Leonards, connected with
Sydney by a single ferry steamer plying
every half-hour during the day-time between
•Circular Quay and Milson’s Point. A bridge
was often spoken of and dreamed about, but
it was. not until the ’seventies that proposals
were seriously examined. In 1878 W. C.
Bennett, the then Commissioner for Roads
and Bridges, favored a floating bridge from
Dawes Point to Milson’s Point, “to carry
passengers, vehicles and, if necessary, a
railway train.” A year later T. S. Parrott
prepared a sketch design of a truss bridge
of seven spans from Dawes Point to Milson’s
Point, the longest span being 500 feet. In
1879 John E. Garbett, representing an Eng-
lish company, offered to construct a high-
level bridge to connect Sydney with the
North Shore, and the Parkes Government of
that day actually accepted the offer, but
after prolonged negotiations the scheme was
abandoned.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Is the Postmaster-General
short of Australian names, or is he merely
trying to make Southern Europeans feel at
home? A new post office near Woodburn,
Richmond River (N.S.W.), has been officially
labelled “New Italy.” It may be appropriate
enough in some respects, but there is surely
no need to blazon it about in this way.
* * * *
“Borom”: The belief that noblemen con-
demned to death are entitled to be hanged
with a silken cord (B. 8/2/’2B) has no
foundation in fact. Trevelyan mentions it
in a not.® in one of his historical books, and
says there is not the slightest legal justifi-
cation for it. It is astonishing how many
firmly credited myths of the kind there are
in existence.
* * * *
“T.M.”: The Rev. “Bobby” Knopwood,
mentioned in several recent paragraphs, may
have been an industrious if ungrammatical
diarist, but as a sky-pilot he could hardly be
rated as an ace. Eachlan Macquarie, in a
despatch to Earl Bathurst, said that “a
chaplain is much required to relieve the Rev.
Mr. Knopwood, who has become quite infirm
from dissipation and loose, improper conduct.
I therefore express the hope that some re-
spectable clergyman may be found to come
out to the Derwent for the purpose of re-
lieving Mr. Knopwood, who certainly does
more harm than good at that settlement.’ l
That was written in 183 7, but apparently it
wasn’t easy to discover a respectable clergy-
man to relieve Bobby, who was allowed to
pursue his unregenerate ways till 1522, when
he was pensioned off.
BALLADE OF RUM AND ONIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I really ought to stick to beer
Now I am courting, but I doubt
Its potency. Too little cheer
Abides in it my cares to rout.
Though I despise the oafish lout
Whose malted stupor mimics death,
I wish it didn’t make her pout.
The old Jamaica on my breath.
My fancy sparkles, bright and clear,
As it could never do on stout:
Nor is the outlook ever drear—
Provided someone else will shout.
I seek a dish, assuaged my drought,
That onion (sliced) encompasseth.
And then my ladye bowls me out
With dark reflections on my breath!
A prudent course I strive to steer
Past potions apt to lead to gout;
But rum is wholesome, and no mere
Malt liquor so resolves a doubt
That all my actions are devout
And wise. My famous uncle, Seth,
Who wrote “Muldoon the Marabout,”
Ignored all comments on his breath.
Envoy.
My respiration, in and out,
Is spectre-ridden, as Macbeth
By Banquo. Rum-fumes haunt my snout
And wraiths of onions throng my
breath. .
N.S.W.
AIIAR MULDOON.
OUT OF DATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now, when it comes to Nungle’s Nell,
I don’t believe in spilling tales,
But somehow I’ve just got to tell
In one respect she always fails.
She has the looks and she can milk,
Her figure’s as it ought to be;
And were she clad in costliest silk
She’d look no prettier to me.
I stroke her hand on moonlight nights,
And call her “peach” and “duck” and
“dove,”
And tell her of my hopes and mights
Just like a silly cove in love.
But what she does is nothing much
To write to Dad and Mum about.
She seems to be right out of touch
With things that make me want to shout
And yet I think she’s shook on me
(I seem to see it in her eyes),
And things would go reel merrily
If she were up-to-date and wise.
But no! We’re where we were before—
Just perched upon the blasted fence.
For leap-year’s leap-year, nothing more,
To Nungle’s Nell. By cripes, she’s dense!
N.S.W.
EDWIN WALLER.


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
'phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
For the Finest View of All Sporting Contests Use
g
ROSS GLASSES
ENGLAND’S BEST - -
THE WORLD’S BEST
All models and powers of these
fine binoculars are sold by leading
jewellers throughout the Common-
wealth. They are imported into
Australia free of duty. Prices range
from £ 1 0.
AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA:—
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.
'‘The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23 AND 25 HUNTER STREET.
"tKotei
WuuLiot
A
•ntiirillll 111
IUJ
Spring Street, Melbourne,
Opp. Parliament House.
In the picked position of the city
for quietness, beauty and charm,
yet handy to theatres, shops, ware-
houses, stations and wharves. The
last word in efficiency and modern
equipment. Minimum tariff from
22/6 (inclusive) ; Room and Break-
fast from 15/-. Telegrams and
Cables: “Telwinsor,” Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent. 9260.
Manager: D. G. BAKER.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
“Uramao”: Among the European prelati-
cal bigwigs mentioned as probable attendors
at the Eucharistic Congress in Sydney in
September is Cardinal Dubois of Paris.
A while back at the ancient Church of St.
Eustache, the Society for the Reclamation
of Fallen Women held a commemorative
service, and the church was filled with
wealthy pati’onesses of the society. His
Eminence ascended the pulpit and, having
given out his text, proceeded: “My daughters,
it is with joy that 1 see the traces of vice
disappearing from your faces, and that the
black sheep are re-entering the fold.” lie
got no further. The vicar rushed up the
steps of the pulpit and gasped out the
information that the congregation comprised
the patronesses and not the penitents.
C. LLOYD JONES, of the Sydney house of
David Jones. He has a passion for art
as well as business.
G. A. Maxwell. K.C., who has figured in
most of Melbourne’s chief criminal trials and
has been briefed as leader in the defence
of parson Griggs in the Omeo murder trial,
wmuld appear to be possessed of a species of
intuition or second sight. Inability to watch
the faces of witnesses under his gruelling
cross-examination appears to make no dif-
ference to his results. A few years ago the
presidency of the Victorian Blind Associa-
tion fell vacant. Up till then it had always
been held by a blind man, but it was de-
cided that the new president should be an
influential man in full possession of his
faculties. Maxwell, as a leading lawyer,
M.FI.R. and general live wire, with appa-
rently perfect eyesight, was asked to take
on the job. With no idea of impending dis-
aster he did so, and within a year was
himself blind.
The Old Dart’s first airwoman, Mrs.
Maurice Hewlett, widow of the novelist, has
decided to make her home in Maoriland,
and settled down there a few weeks ago. She
qualified as a pilot at Brooklands in 1911,
and her certificate from the Royal Aero Club,
No. 122, was the first issued to a woman.
She has another distinction, too. She was the
first woman in the world to teach her son to
fly, and Wing-Commander Hewlett has made
a great name for himself in the R.A.F. Mrs.
Hewlett is a good business woman. She estab-
lished an aircraft factory and a flying school
at Brooklands before the Great War broke
out. Both entei’prises were commandeered,
and she was able to give her country some
very valuable assistance in training airmen
and constructing ’planes.
Judge Wasley, of Vic. County Court, is to
continue as Acting-Justice of the Supreme
Court for another six . months (he has
already had one half-year of it) to enable
Cussen, J., to complete the consolidation of
the statutes. Cussen did a similar consolidat-
ing job in 1915.
A. Rutter Clarke, just resigned from Mel-
bourne Stock Exchange, was the oldest mem-
ber ; he was elected in 1889. The firm of
Clarke and Co. was established in 1855. His
son, who is to carry on the business, repre-
sents the fourth generation of the family en-
gaged in the sharebroking line.
This year Melbourne is to experience an
exodus of many of its leading sky-pilots.
Archbish. Lees started the fashion a month
ago. He has been followed by Iloban, of the
Methodist Central Mission, and James, of the
Collins-street Congregational Church, leaves
for vood this month, having accepted a call
to London. Borland, who officiates at Scots’
Kirk. Collins-street, is packing up for a
12-months’ trip; and the literary Boreham
is following suit a few weeks hence.
Jones, Vic. Minister for Works, was
appealed to recently in an unusual dispute.
Kew City Council, looking for a site for a
town hall, decided to evict Mr. and Mrs.
D. G. Carnegie from their home, with, of
course, the usual compensation. The Car-
riegies, however, had seen their family grow
up in that spot for 25 years, and regarded
sentiment as above pelf or municipal
aspirations. Jones agreed, in this case at
any rate, that an Australian’s home should
be his castle. Now the bumbles are looking
for somebody else to turn out.
Alex. McCallum, Westralia’s Minister for
Works, who is now on his way to the Big
Fog in search of health, was never as “Red”
as many imagined him to be, even when he
ruled the industrial side of Labor from the
Trades Hall. During the war, when the
question of flying the Red Flag at that estab-
lishment was brought forward by extremists,
Alex, one night had a ding-dong fistic en-
counter with their anti-British leader, and
outed him. In recent years McCallum has
suffered badly from nerves, the result of over-
work on Labor’s behalf and in his Minis-
terial job. In liis early days he followed the
Inky Way, and printing employees in the
West, for whom he was secretary and advo-
cate, owe him a lot.
Sub-Inspector Duffy, who is retiring from
the north State’s force after 37 years’ ser-
vice, 34 of which have been spent about Long-
reach, has had only seven weeks’ holiday
leave in all that time and no sick leave.
Since 1923 he has controlled the Longr.aach
district, an area larger than England. He
helped keep order in the West during the
great shearers’ strike of 1891, and served
later on mounted patrol in a district extend-
ing from Tambo to Birdsville and up to
Boulia and Urandangie. It was probably
those earlier years in the bush that gave him
the tolerance and commonsense for which he
is famous in the West.
The Murrumbidgee irrigation settlements
have been a sort of ark of refuge for those
leaders of Broken Hill Labor who have
become dispirited. In almost the first flight
was Ernie Polkinghorne, who had gone to
gaol with Sleath and Ferguson over the ’92
strike. Among the birds that later winged
their way across was the stormiest petrel
of Broken Hill’s middle days, W. M. Nulty.
His name got back into the papers once
more the other day. But no longer in con-
nection with wild promises and furious
threats. He had been chosen as one of three
members of the new Dried Fruits Board.
One of the cherished legends of the R.N.
concerns Admiral do Robeck, who died the
other day. When he was “owner” of the
battleship Dominion, in 1908, lie had a
pretty tough crew, and there were so many
black eyes and swollen jaws among them
that something had to be done. So De
Robeck kept his eyes open and the next
time he discovered a scrap in progress lie
cafpeted both men. He gave them six days’
cells, and then, as if by afterthought, said
he’d remit the punishment if each would give
him a three-round bout with gloves. De
Robeck was a big man, over 6ft. and solid, but
the delinquents were bigger, and one had
worn the Navy heavyweight champion belt,
so they both grinned when they agreed to
take it on. The ex-champ, had first innings,
and fought all he knew, but he took a k.o.
after a few minutes. The other chap was
missing till word was circulated that the
captain’s steward had a bottle of ale each for
him and his quarrelsome cobber.
Chess-player L. S. Crackantliorp, who
has resigned his job as health inspector at
Manly (N.S.W.), borrowed his son's birth
certificate to enlist, but. being palpably over
Professor MAX PIRANI, Australian pianist
and Royal College of Music examiner.
age, was weeded out in France after a short
run of service. When the Ballarat, upon
which he was returning to Australia, had
been torpedoed and was sihking he was
found in the cook’s galley—busy eating. “If
I’ve got to die, I’m not going to die hungry,”
he said. He subsequently dived overboard
and swam to a destroyer that was picking
up the Ballarat’s complement.
When he got out of Queensland politics
to take a job on the Board of Trade and
Arbitration his own Ministry had created,
William Neal Gillies went from one nerve-
wracking position to another. The worry of
it told on him, and he died suddenly last
week. Gillies was born into the sugar indus-
try on the Northern Rivers (N.S.W.), and
formed a group of sugar-farmers who went
to Atherton (Q.) and selected land for cane-
growing. In his spare time he ran a news-
sheet there until elected M.L.A. for Facliam
in 1912. He was in his 60th year at the end.
Died suddenly in South Africa while on
a tour of the world, A. J. Mcßride, one of
the big men in the S. Aus. pastoral industry.
When he bought Wilgena it had not carried
sheep for 30 years. Within two years part
of it was carrying 20,000. Mcßride owned
several first-class racehorses. He was 59
at the finish.
“Chelmer”: It’s easy enough to confuse
cricketer Johnny Taylor’s parentage (P>.
l/2/’2B). Methodist veteran W. G. Taylor’s
son is T. M. Taylor, also a rev. of that
church and a willow-wielder, as his dad
was in his day. Johnny’s father, J. G.
Taylor, is a Methodist minister, too, as well
as a one-time cricketer.
Maoriland pioneer Richard Childey Rey-
nolds, who died the other day, besides being
remembered as the exporter of the first
Maoriland butter for sale in London left a
more visible memorial in the form of hun-
dreds of magnificent trees planted throughout
the Cambridge (Waikato) district. Affores-
tation was his hobby, with stock breeding
and acclimatisation work, plus farming on a
huge scale.
Out of the welter of ex-politicians who
rushed the Nationalist selection for Wol-
londilly—the man who gets it is as good as
elected—Mark Morton secured the nomina-
tion. Morton was in Parliament from 1901
to 1920 —the first three years for the Shoal-
haven and then for Allowrie. He had
another innings in 1922-25.
John Barr, of Christchurch, after 21 years
of service in the Upper Chamber, has just
been reappointed for another seven years.
He’s a Scot, born in Paisley, and what school-
ing he got was given him at the Pollockshaws
public. He started work as a loom-minder
at the age of 10, and graduated from that to
apprenticeship as a stonemason. His young
manhood was spent in Canada and U.S.A,;
he arrived in M.L. at the age of 35, and in a
short while was a power in trades-union
circles. Seddon thought him dangerous, and.
in accordance with his custom in such eases,
determined to find him a Government job.
Seddon died before he could carry out his
intention, but Ward hoisted Barr into the
seats of the mighty. While he was still
secretary to a restaurant-workers’ union,
Barr was an M.L.C., mayor of a rather
swanky seaside borough and chairman of the
Christchurch Tramway Board. Now he has
no connection with union affairs, and is
Chairman of Committees of the Leg. Council.
Labor regards him as a lost leader.
“Bondy” Hoare, central figure in the
Stockton-Borehole affair, succeeded to the
job of president of the Northern Miners when
J. M. Baddeley entered politics. A speaker
with a special knack of moving the mining
crowd, Hoare is a carefree citizen who be-
lieves that if a man can get three meals a
day and a bed he should be happy. To him
the coal-diggers are the salt of the earth.
“Cycle” : An even better proof of Towns-
ville’s dreadful climate than those four old-
timers (B. 19/1/’2S) is G. S. Fox, who will
bo 98 in April. He lias spent more than
40 years in the N.-Q. town. Fox holds a
Masonic diploma dated March, 1852, and
miners’ right No. 11 for Victoria, Sept., 1854.
The centenary of St. Thomas’s church,
Port Macquarie, which takes place on
February 28, recalls the Hassalls, one of
the earliest families to arrive in Sydney as
free settlers. Thomas, son of the original
Rowland Hill llassail, was the first Aus-
tralian candidate for the ministry. He took
charge of St. Thomas’s parish three years
before the old church was built. The original
Hassall went with a young family as an
artisan missionary to Tahiti. He returned
from Tahiti in 1798, and, after being
robbed of all he possessed by convicts, built
up a future as a shopkeeper in Parramatta.
He had 10 children, and as they were equally
prolific the family, now in its seventh Aus-
tralian generation, must be very extensive.
An 84-year-old grand-daughter of the original
settler, Mrs. C. A. Campbell, lives at Dan-
denong, Victoria.
H. Y. L. Brown, who has died in Adelaide
at 84, was a rolling-stone that gathered much
moss. Canadian-born and English-trained,
lie was working on a Victorian geological
survey in 1805; surveyed gold leases in M.L.
at the time of the Thames rush; had several
years in Westralia under Weld, and claimed
to be the real discoverer of the Weld Ranges;
tried liis luck in Canada ; was on the N.S.W.
geological staff in 1880 ; and then at the
end of 1882 became Government Geologist of
South Australia (including the N.T.), a
post that he held for close on 30 years.
Brown was more of an explorer than most
other geologists. He would disappear into
the interior for months with only two or
three Afghans or blackfellows, and had a
detailed knowledge of this continent to
which sundry geological maps, still of great
value, stand as memorial.
CHARLES TAYLOR, Vic. Government
analyst, who will he an important
witness in the Omeo case relative to
the death of a minister’s wife.
Lieut.-Colonel S. It. H. Roberts, D. 5.0.,
recently chosen from the Sydney mail-branch
staff to be deputy-director of posts and tele-
graphs for Westralia, was one of the first
officers to land at Gallipoli, and is men-
tioned in Bean’s story of the advance on.
Baby 700. Later he commanded his bat-
talion, the 11th, in Egypt and in France,
lie was born at Ararat, Victoria, and left
the W.A. postal department to go to the war.
THE SEARCHERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The day was clouded and the night
Was full of driving rain,
With gusty winds that in affright
Cried at the window-pane.
The live warm windows pierced the gloom
With spears of mellow gold ;
And there was singing in the room—
As much as it could hold.
My mind was singing and my heart
Took up the gay refrain;
The tinkling china filled its part;
And, in the rosy stain
Of a great lamp, the open book
Found music ilr its leaves —
A summer sound of wind that shook
Through oaten-ribboned sheaves.
For, as the wind grew louder still
And at the gable whined,
Together on a flowery hill
We Avandered far to find
The secret thing you love the best,
The magic I desire—
A blossom blowing to the west
That wears a heart of fire.
The paper page was daisy-white;
The words, like bending grass
Before thought's footsteps firm and light,
Whispered and let us pass.
And we were glad because the way
Was long beneath our feet;
We cared not where our treasure lay,
The seeking was so sweet.
DAVID MCKEE WEIGHT.


“Metrovick” Products Include
The Mark of
<3>
Efficiency
TURBO-ALTERNATORS
ROTARY CONVERTERS
AUTOMATIC SUB-STATIONS
SUPERVISORY CONTROL
TRACTION APPARATUS
GENERATORS, A.C. AND D.C.
INDUSTRIAL MOTORS
CONTROL GEAR
TRANSFORMERS
SWITCHGEAR, A.C. AND D.C.
INSTRUMENTS
PERMIT US TO QUOTE FOR YOUR REQUIREMENTS.
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
ADELAIDE,
ers
BRISBANE
AND
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
SECURE A RELIABLE EXECUTOR
by appointing
THE Trustees, Executors and Agency Co., Limited,
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
(The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australia.)
Its experience of over 49 years in controlling all classes of Estates ensures a service that
will protect the interests of your dependents.
If you have already appointed a private Executor, the Company can be substituted by a short
codicil.
SECURITY: Capital (Paid and Uncalled) and Reserves exceed £BBB,OOO
Arrange an interview or write for booklet.
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H. MacFarland, M.A., LL.D. (Vice-Chairman),
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart, J. Fordyce.
CHAS. R. SMIBERT. General Manager. V. G. WATSON. Manager,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
amalgamated Wireless (Austral-
asia), Ltd.: —
Nominal
Writ- To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends, ten Off ser>'«>s. se-“v
£ & £ £ £
1918.. 11,414 5 p.c. = WOO 4>.,4 -25
1919.. 13.338 5 „ „ 7000 5113 1225 1,450
1920.. 14,237 5 „ „ 7734 5889 614 2,064
1921.. 15,838 6 „ „ 9659 6063 116 2,180
Deficit.
Establishment expenses capitalised, £10,629 8,349
1922.. 16,546 6 p.e. = 11,136 7294 10,233
Establishment expenses capitalised, £6960 17,193
1923.. 6,834 Nil 6691 143 17,050
Establishment expenses capitalised, £451 17,501
Loss.
1924.. 14,505 Nil 7352 39,358
Establishment expenses capitalised, £102,009 141,367
Forfeited shares, £l3B .. .. 141,229
Profits.
1925.. 14,005 Nil 8969 5036 136,193
Establishment expenses capitalised, £54,592 190,785
1926.. 23,617 Nil 11,421 12,196 178,589
Forfeited shares, £193 .. .. 178,396
Establishment exes, included with other
assets. Nominal
Reserves. *
1927.. 39,036 Nil 13,886 25,150 21,294
* Subject to undisclosed establishment expenses.
The success of the beam stations and a new
agreement with the Commonwealth Govern-
ment have greatly improved the co.'s pro-
spects. The year’s gross profits sprang
£102,500, mounting to £260,532, of which
exes. (£216,254) ate 83 p.c. compared with
83.5 p.c. in the previous term. Then there
was a loss of £5242 on the sale of some of
the subsidiary’s assets; this was charged
against revenue, thus leaving a profit of
£39,036, out of which £13,886, shown as
written off in the table, was put by for
depreciation, and that left £25,150 net.
The matter of outstanding importance dur-
ing the year was the opening of the beam
service between Australia and England on
April 8. It represents the consummation of
a long struggle in which the skill and per-
sistence of the management overcame many
technical and other difficulties. One immedi-
ate result whs that the public got the benefit
of reduced rates, and with the technical side
right the new business expanded rapidly.
But what is more important is that within
a few months the service was earning a
profit. That, however, was not until after
the. close of the last accounts, so the year’s
net earnings did not benefit, but the current
term’s results should reap the reward. Then
the coastal radio service, taken over by the
co. in 1922 and run at a loss of about £25,000
p.a., was subsidised by the Government as
from March 28 last. The amount of the sub-
sidy is not stated, but it is sufficient after
paying the Government 30 p.c. of the revenue
to wipe out the loss, says the chairman.
Thus figures at June 30 last include
only three months’ payments, whereas the
next accounts will benefit over the full
term. At June 30 the beam service,
including plant, stood in the books at
£214,601; not all of it was spent in the last
12 months. A substantial part represents the
cost of research, experiment and investiga-
tions carried on for years. The outlay on
new services at June 30, 1926, was £174,541,
and that figure, not hitherto treated as an
asset in the table, is included in the £214,601.
Not much notice, therefore, need be taken of
the so-ealled nominal reserves above, which
include the patent rights at their book value.
£93,000. However, it is those patents and
the research, etc., that have been mainly re-
sponsible for the returns won to date, and
the same remark applies to the future.
To meet the year’s outlay of £40.060 on
the beam service and £163,965 on free-
holds, plant, etc.—the co. bought itself new
headquarters in York-street, Sydney—
£Bo,s72 of capital was got in and the board
went to its hankers for an extra £55,300,
raising the overdraft to £67,020. That and
other movements are seen in this comparison
of balance-sheet figures :
1923. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Sundry creditors £30,842 £59,211 £102,736 £130,150
Bank overdraft. . 4,573 46,581 . 11,720 67,020
Plant, stock, etc. 146,205 270,390 328,003 491,968
Sundry debtors. . 54,330 84,615 99,414 150,438
War Bonds, cash,
etc 12,529 36,799 61,543 1,127
Shares other cos. 30,007 12,352 9,952 4,710
Beam Service .. 17,489 119,949 174,541 214,601
When the books were ruled off the debt
(£197,170) was £45,605 in excess of liquids
(£151,565), apart from shares in other cos.,
but another 2s. per share (£80,274), making
14s. paid, has since been called on the 802.738
contribs., of which the Commonwealth Gov-
erument holds 500,001. In addition there are
181,400 fully-paids; thus the present paid
capital is £743,317.
The outcome of the recent Royal Com-
mission on Wireless was an agreement,
entered into in December, between the co. and
the Government. A thorny question, and one
that caused much friction between the co.
and that section of the public interested in
broadcasting and other wireless operations,
was the terms upon which the co.’s patent
rights should be made available. These are
to be free to the public for the next live
years, and this should remove the cause of
most of the past trouble and so strengthen
goodwill. In return for this concession the
co. is to receive from the Government 3s.
p.a. of each listener’s license fee. The num-
ber of such licenses issued at June 30, 1927,
was approximately 214,000, and the annual
increase has been substantial. On 250,000
licenses the co. would receive £37.500. Ordin-
arily royalties on receiving-sets alone should
bi’ing in around double that amount, hut
owing to difficulties in collection only about
£4OOO was actually received from that source
in 1926. As against that the co. now has
the subsidy on the coastal stations, referred
to above, so all things considered the tem-
porary loss of revenue from royalties should
not seriously affect profits. Meantime the
co. is to test the validity of some of its
rights in the courts. Further, the Govern-
ment has undertaken not to enter into com-
petition with the co., which has spent a lot
of money pioneering and developing wireless
in Australia, and which now has over 30
stations here as well as more than 100 in-
stallations on coastal vessels. In addition
it acts as technical manager to some of the
big broadcasting stations, and recently got a
contract from the Government of Fiji to
overhaul its radio services.
The market, impressed by recent develop-
ments, now prices the scrip at par. Share-
holders received their last div. (6 p.c.) in
1922, and have averaged only 3.2 p.c. over
the. last 14 years. Fat returns, of course,
are not to be expected. The policy of the
Government, which has a controlling inter-
est, is that of a “fair” return on capital
taking into consideration the fact that no
divs. have been paid for five years.
% ❖ * *
The North Shore Gas Co. (Sydney) :
, -Dividends
r- To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. “A” “B” Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 48,592 8% 8% 42,054 6,538 8,581
Premiums on shares, £257 .. .. 8,838
Shares consolidated.
1919.. 46,118 8 p.c. = 43,757 2,361 11,199
1920.. 43,020 8 „ „ 44,054 10,765
1921.. 40,294 8 „ „ 44,054 2,240 13,005
1922.. 58,988 8 „ „ 44,054 14,934 27,939
1923.. 46,543 8 „ „ 44,054 2,489 30,428
Premiums on shares, £3445.. .. 33,873
1924.. 48,664 8 p.c. = 46,113 2,551 36,424
Premiums on shares, £1983.. .. 38,407
1925.. 48,501 8 p.c. = 48,387 114 38,521
Premiums on shares, £7130.. .. 45,651
1926.. 48,344 8 p.c. = 51,675 42,320
Premiums on shares, £12,463 . . 54,783
1927.. 56,785 8 p.c. = 56,695 90 54,873
Profits won the race. But only by £9O more
than was necessary to pay the S p.c. div.
after putting £13,000 by for special purposes
and depreciation. Eighteen months ago
costs —chiefly coal and labor —threatened to
so reduce the margin between income and
outgo as to endanger the maintenance of
the standard div. rate. So the co. went to
the Court, and the price to the consumer
was increased from ss. sd. to 6s. 3d. per
1000 c.f. During the year 90,000 £1 shares
were auctioned —40,000 in March and 50,000
in June. That made paid capital £740,675,
and reserves benefited by £12,463 of share
premiums. The shares averaged 235. 2-§d.
each. Of the new capital £BO,OOO was used
for the redemption of 6 p.c. and 04 p.c.
debentures, reducing the debt under that
head to £120,000; temporary loans (£32.200)
increased by £7850. Thus there was only an
extra £30,313 at work, and that was not
employed for a full year. So all things
considered the management did well to add
£8441 to the year’s net earnings. The
saving in debenture interest was £3142, but
divs. called for an extra £5020. Here are
revenue and expenditure figures:—
1924. 1926. 1927.
Revenue from gas .. £239,093 £263,277 £286,887
Revenue from residuals 48,863 46,466 51,456
Other revenue .. .. 2,916 3,296 3,602
Coal, etc 105,560 110,493 117,668
Taxes .. .. .. '7,666 6,275 11,871
All other exes. . . 108,711 133,593 143,809
Apart from debenture interest (£11,992) the
leap in exes, was £22,988, the total mounting
to £273,348, but revenue climbed £28,905,
reaching £341,945; so there was a saving of
£5917 there. Last year the cost of manu-
facture and distribution ate up 13s. 6d. of
every £1 the co. received compared with
14s. 6d. in the previous term. But the
proportion for rates and taxes was 6s. lid.
as against 4s. in 1926.
A pleasing feature was the increase of
£4990 in the return from residuals
(£51,456). Coke accounted for most of it.
In order to get rid of the accumulation of
tar the co. apparently had to cut the price;
sales (583.754 gallons) increased by 193,125
gallons, but the return (£11,995) was only
£930 greater than in the previous year.
Competition with imported bitumen in road
making is the trouble. What the Govern-
ment needs to realise is that returns from
residuals help to offset costs and, therefore,
benefit the consumer by- assisting to keep
the price down. The debenture debt.
(£120,000 due Jan 1) has been renewed and
a further advance of £150.000 arranged.
Inabilities and more or less liquids compare
thus: —
1924. 1926. 1927
Debentures .. .. £200,000 £200,000 £120,000
Temporary loans .. 13,250 24,350 32,200
Consumers’ deposits .. 19,213 18,329 18,003
Bank overdraft.. .. 10,915 15,712
Other debts . . . . 29,529 24,118 27,087
Total liabilities . . £261,992 £277,712 £213,002
Liquid assets(inc. stocks) 72,113 77,544 87,462
Excess liabilities .. £189,879 £200,168 £125,540
At Dec. 31 freeholds stood in the books at
£110,846, and the outlay on buildings and
plant amounted to £914,396. From the
investors’ point of view so long as capital is
adequately protected against asset-wastage
the slender margin between net earnings and
the standard div. is not of great concern.
Last year £64,575 was spent out of revenue
on repairs and maintenance; that was in
addition to the provision for depreciation
referred to above. The market prices the
scrip around 235. The return at that figure
on an 8 p.c. basis is a shade over 7 p.c.
after allowing for the final div. —94d. per
share.
iH* * *
The Squatting Investment Co. (Mel-
bourne) :
Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1918 .. 24,157 8* p.c. = 24,334 —• 189
1919 .. 14,861 5 „ „ 14,600 261 450
1920 .. 4,506 In „ „ 4,866 90
1921 .. 9,842 3* „ „ 9,733 109 199
3922 .. 41,700 10 „ „ 29,200 12,500 12,699
1923 .. 29,050 10 „ „ 29,201 12,548
Assets written down .. £146,002
1924 .. 59,976 30 p.c. = 43,801 16,175 28,723
1925 .. 32,991 20 „ „ 29,201 3,790 32,513
1926 . . 28,617 20 „ „ 29,201 31,929
1927 . . 21,751 20 „ „ 29,201 24,479
The year was not even as good as the
figures suggest. Profits include a liquidation
payment of £5426 on account of 8038
B.A.W.R.A. shares (13s. 6d. per share), so
apart from that the co. netted only £16,325,
not a great deal more than half the previous
year’s figure. Returns depend largely upon
rainfall; factors that eat up profits, besides
drought, are the wild dogs and the rabbits,
and the blowfly takes its toll, too. In 1926
over 16 inches of rain fell on the co.’s pro-
perties; last year only 74 inches was regis-
tered, and half of that tumbled down in the
last two months of the year. ' However, the
fall was in time to save a heavy outlay on
agistment. Compared with 1926 the year’s
clip (1861 hales greasy) was 747 bales
lighter, and the return (£53,726) was £6357
poorer. More lambs were marked, 24,352
compared with 20.701, but the mortality
(15,338) was 9251 heavier. Also the sale of
livestock brought in only £4415 as against
£5734 in 1926. At Dec. 31 there were 63,245
sheep on the run, and that was 24,531 less
than at the previous balance. The lot, to-
gether with 290 horses and a handful of
cattle, are in the books at a modest £39,695.
But prudence demands a conservative esti-
mate of stock values in South-western
Queensland.
What the investor needs to remember is
that the 20 p.c. div. is not so rich as it
looks, because part has to be regarded as a
return of capital. During the 10 years to
1923 17s. of the total distributions was so
counted, and 11s. of the 275. per share since
handed out has been labelled bonus. Instead
of creating a sinking fund to provide for the
falling in of the leases, which occurs in
seven years’ time, special bonuses were paid
direct to shareholders. Capital was recon-
structed in 1923, the uncalled 10s. per share
was cancelled and half the amount paid up
was written off. That left the scrip with a
face value of 305., and to balance the books
£146,002 was struck off the leases, reducing
them to £72,977. They were in at £54,469
at Dec. 31. This comparison of balance-
sheet figures shows the position:—
1924. 1926. 1927.
Capital .. £146,002 £146,002 £146,002
Liabilities .. . . 912 581 671
Stations, plant, etc. 78,743 65,792 59,820
Sheep, cattle, horses 45,230 52,071 39,695
Wool unsold . . 810 2,565 2,200
Cash, etc. . . . . 109,789 86,951 102,906
There is no certainty about the renewal
of the leases* but it is hoped that the recent
report of the Queensland Land Settlement
Advisory Board will help to modify the
Government’s attitude in that respect. Dis-
regarding the leases, the net tangible back-
ing for the scrip is 235. lOd. On that basis
the investor who pays 40s. for the shares
will have to receive an average of about
6s. 3d. per share p.a. over the next seven
years in order to get 10 p.e. (4s. per share
p.a.) on his money and have the balance of
his capital intact.
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney),
property auctioneers, subdivisionists, valua-
tors, etc.: —
Written To Re Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1918.. 8,273 8 p.c. = 5,345 1452 1476 14,079
1919.. 14,883 12*,, „ 7,743 1465 5675 19,754
1920.. 21,299 27'*,, „ 19,071 3735 18,247
1921.. 8,147 10 „ „• 6,955 4110 15,329
1922.. 14.394 17 „ „ 11,840 2962 14,921
Capital returned (as. per share.), £17,412
1923.. 18,607 21* p.c.=12,554 2096 3957 18,878
1924.. 16,296 20 „ „ 10,474 5831 18,866
1925.. 14,307 265„ ~ 13,985 3070 16,118
1926.. 19,195 28*,, „ 14,859 2994 1342 17,460
1927.. 18,141 26ir„ ~13,995 6750 14,856
Profits, which reflect conditions in the real-
estate market, are those claimed by the
accounts less the bonus handed to the staff—
£l2oo for the past 12 months. Last year’s
£18,141 represents no less than 34.6 p.c. on
capital compared with 36.6 p.c. in the pre-
vious year. It was one of the best of a run
of fat years during which Sydney’s city and
suburban property values appreciated
at a remarkable rate. Also there is a con-
tingency reserve (£6120), which was drawn
upon for £6750 during the year, but for what
purpose is not visible in the published figures.
The drawings, shown as written off in the
table, reduced reserves to £14,856 at Dec. 31.
Under the influence of tight money the rate
of increase in property values eased a little
last year, but despite that and the uncer-
tainty, early in the year, of the political situa-
tion, and despite the influence of the Fair
Rents Act and a dry winter, suburban sales,
helped by subdivisions, reached unprece-
dented figures, and city sales were the second
beat on record, as this comparison shows: —
City. Suburbs.
1918 .. .. £1,000,000 £2,500,000
1920 . . . . 3,000,000 4,375,000
1921 .. .. 1,483,515 2,506,827
1922 .. .. 3,000,000 3,500,000
1923 . . . . 1,854,599 4,324,9U0
1924 .. .. 2,100,000 3,500,000
1925 .. .. 2,400,000 3,750,000
1926 . . .. 7,000,000 3,750,000
1927 . . . . 5,133,800 4,397,000
The basis of those figures, of course, is the
policy that has crowded half the population
of N. S. Wales into one big city ; also a lavish
scattering of loan funds has helped in piling
up big figures, too, Richardson and Wrench
handled £1,526,300 of the year’s total re-
ported sales, and that was £87,000 less than
passed through the co.’s hands in the pre-
vious term. The result is reflected in this
comparison of gross earnings:—
1917 .. £15,683 | 1923 .. £36,250
1919 .. 27,656 1924 . „ 33,567
1920 .. 36,690 1925 .. 38,565
1921 .. 25,369 1926 .. 42,795
1922 .. 31,425 1927 .. 41,225
Most of those returns are won from com-
missions ; investments could have accounted
for only a fraction of the 1927 income. The
last accounts closed with £14,380 of deposits
on sales in hand compared with £27,251 a
year earlier, but good auction bookings are
reported.
The financial position was, as usual, very
comfortable:—
1921. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Capital .. .. £69,650 £52,444 £52,444 £52,500
Liabilities .. .. 20,424 45,930 39,311 24,588
Advances .. .. 71,810' 49,952 43,410 44,335
Book debts .. 1,9 7 2 6,50 9 6,99 2 7,836
Cash, etc... .. 31,881 63,833 63,964 44,592
Odds and ends . . 3,222 4,038 4,799 5,132
In 1923 ss. of each £1 of capital was re-
turned, and the act could be repeated now
without straining the position. Cash on cur-
rent account (£23,822) was almost sufficient
to meet the outside debt (£24,588), and there
was another £20,770 in Government securi-
ties and on fixed deposit. The net tangible
backing is 18s. lid. per 15s. share, all of it
more or less liquid, and the market prices the
scrip at 485., equal to 455. 6d. after payment
of the final div. (Is. 6d.) and bonus (Is.).
At that price the return is 8£ p.c. so long
as the 26| p.c. div. continues.
* * * *
Tlie Wellington Trust, Loan and In-
vestment Co. (Wellington, M.L.) :
To Re- Re-
Dee., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1918 .. 9,434 7* p.c.= 9,375 59 70,945
1919 .. 10,382 7* ~ „ 9,375 1007 71.952
1920 .. 11,360 7* „ „ 9,375 1985 73,937
1921 . . 8,071 6* „ „ 8,125 73.883
1922 .. 8,031 6*,, „ 8,125 73,789
1923 11.027 o*,. „ 8.125 1 7 , 4 74503
Written off property, £2168 ( ' ’
1924 .. 11,402 7*p.c.= 9,375 2027 76,550
1925 .. 12,006 7* „ „ 9,375 2631 79,181
1926 .. 14,505 8 ~ „ 10,00 0 45 0 5 83,686
1927 . . 11,605 8 „ „ 10,000 1605 85,291
Earnings were drawn upon for £1657 to meet
depreciation in the value of some of the
securities. That and a bigger bite for taxa-
tion, £3372 compared with £2788 in 1926,
accounts for most of the back-slide of £2900
in the year’s net result. Here is a detailed
comparison of income and outgo:—
1918. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Income .. .. £33,702 £33,069 £36,053 £35,534
Interest on deposits,
etc. . . . . 16,333 15,894 16,316 16,286
Management, etc. 2,159 2,573 2,443 4,271*
Taxes .. . . 5,616 2,596 2,788 3,372
* Includes £1657 special depreciation.
Enough was earned to repeat the 8 p.e. div..
which called for 86 p.c. of the £11,605


X'
s'
'
y
/
=7?
y
y
v
m
'A
m
V/
VM
K',
6.
/
'-^y/;
/;
v
y/y
A.y
yx
r
y
/A
MBJ
PP*
m
i
A
V
Hfr
m
m
~-r m
A Decision
in favour of
UJith the Special Ivory Tips
No tobacco can pass your lips
also Cork Tipped ftwol Plain
r..:; -:
-
'
....... - ..
. . ■ .. ....
■
U
Manufoiclurei in your own
country from the finest
Selected Virginia leaf
Packets of 10 8°
Packets of 15 V-
Tins of 50
W-D-E HO-WILLS


GOOD INSURANCE
Is More Important than
a Good Investment.
Your policy may be worthless to
Your family.
The February number of
“The Wild Cat’ Monthly”
deals with this and a score of
other important items.
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
We stock + GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
fiom William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. —Aovt.
* * * *
Good Ideas — Worth Thousands. —That idea which
you have been carrying round in your mind might
be worth thousands if patented. H. H. ltayward,
Me.E., Patent Attorney and Consulting Engineer,
Sirius House, Macquarie Place, Sydney, can tell you
with some degree of certainty. If you cannot call,
write for full particulars concerning patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe requires no caulking. Its
installation is very simple—the machine-banded
sections are merely driven together with tompion
and mallet. No big gangs required, no elaborate
tackle, and no costly caulking. The quick rate at
which it goes in may be deduced from the fact that
four men can easily lay 2000 ft. of 4in. pipe in eight
hours. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. (Ferry to Figtree
Bridge) ; and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
# * * *
WIRE ROPES —AUSTRALIAN MADE—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
S3l-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietarv Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Sydney; J. R.
Reid atid Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney, Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses. — Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patent*
obtained. Coi.i.ison & Co., 483 Collins St*ret, Mii-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yews’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
* * * *
Insley (U.S.A.) One-man Crawler-type Petrol
or Motor-driven Power Shovel. This one machine
does the work of six. Namely, Shovelling, Ditch-
in Skimmer Scooping, Crane work, Dragline, Back-
filler and Magnet. Sole Agents: Arthur Leplastrier
and Co. Pty., Ltd., Sirius House, Macquarie Place,
Sydney; Collins House, Melbourne, 164 PEdward
Street, Brisbane; and Morphett Street, Adelaide.
—Advt.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
JJW
O
YG
boord^son
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DT
Swift »V Cnmimnv 1.ti1.. AiistriiliiKian Agents. 20 :t» Clarruce St.. Sydney
To Delay Making Your Will Is a Serious Matter.
EQUALLY SERIOUS IS THE QUESTION OF SELECTING YOUR EXECUTOR
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited) is in every way to be preferred to
Private Executors, however trustworthy.
Its advantages include:—
Continuity of Management. It cannot die or leave the State.
Security - - - Its Reserves and Uncalled Capital are Ample.
Experience - - - - It has handled almost every class of asset.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration Exceed £30,000,000.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
Write for Booklet. 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director—R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE. Manager—H. V, DOUGLASS.
fes
I
Light Rolling
Straw Hats for Men
Only an ounce or two in
\Oeight>alwaj)s cool. The
‘Airway’ has 36 air holes',
the ‘Tropical’ 24. Have
a fresh air treat. Order
now. cAU Sizes.
The ‘Airway’
5/6
The “Tropic"
7/6
Pike Brothers Ltd.
In Queen Strett, Brisbane
netted. There is a special reserve of £2500,
and that may mean that the board
is not satisfied that values have reached
their lowest level, but the last few months
have witnessed a revival of building activity ;
the trade position in the Dominion is
improving and prices generally are firmer.
Shareholders have had only moderate re-
turns from the business (the average div. for
the past 15 years is 7.7 p.c.), and the £8258
of premiums on 4750 £5 paid shares issued
in 11)12—capital has been steady at £125,000
since—makes the return more moderate still.
Too moderate considering the volume of
other people’s money accepted and put out on
loan. This comparison of balance-sheet fig-
ures shows the position in that respect: —
1914. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Capital an d
reserves . . £199,578 £209,181 £214,311 £215,916
liabilities . . 359,788 343,555 347,009 334,745
Mortgages, etc. 524,621 484,479 488,971 476,642
Freeholds . . 12,923 10,960 10,960 11,660
Interest owing 7,337 6,857 6,924 6,368
Liquid assets. . 14,483 52,998 57,216 59,326
For each pound in the business owned by
shareholders there was thus 31s. of outside
money at risk at December 31, and 80 p.c.
of the total assets was represented by mort-
gages. The terms on which deposits are
held is not stated, but the co. has been in the
business for over half a century and should
be able to fairly accurately estimate the
risks and provide accordingly. After allow-
ing for the final div. assets totalled £548,311,
and there was £334,745 coming to deposi-
tors. That is to say, assets would have to
realise less than 61 p.c. of their book value
before depositors’ money would be in danger.
The market, which is content to back the
management, pays £0 17s. (id. for the scrip,
£5 paid with an uncalled liability of £5. The
return at that price is 5.8 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis.
* * * *
The Miners' Federation has made ten-
tative arrangements for taking over the
Catamaran coalmine in Tasmania, and has
appointed an old N.S.W. South Coast man,
J. Barsby, manager. But apparently the
union is not going to do any marketing, so
that it will still know only half of the diffi-
culties of the game. Of course, lions are
appearing in the path at almost every step;
but it will be a pity if they stop the great
experiment. Just at the moment the miners
are reported to be asking who is going to
guarantee them a living wage. There is no
fund from which the federation can do it;
the only reply they can get is that they
must work hard and earn the money. When
they come to be employers, labor unions
find that they have to talk in just the same
way as other employers.
* * * *
The agreement between Mt. Isa, Ltd., and
the Queensland Government concerning the
reduction of rail freights on ore concentrates,
coal, coke, etc., appears to ensure the spend-
ing of £1,000.000 on the first reduction plant
to treat 2000 tons daily. If all goes well —
and there are many ifs—production will be
well under way in 1930. The proposal to
establish electrolytic zinc works is still
very much in the air, but engineer Draper is
giving that question special attention. The
Tully scheme is the first line of attack, but
if that is not feasible plans for utilising
Bowen or Blair Athol coal for electricity
generation will be considered. Open-cut
schemes for winning coal at 3s. to 4s. a ton
on the big seams there may be feasible and
thus make the scheme possible. Blair Athol
has a 90ft. seam and Bowen 25ft.
* * * *
Fred Brown, who last year set out in
search of American capital for his Koor-
boora tin-mines (N.Q.), failed in his quest,
in the first place the U.S.A. is not enamored
of labor conditions in Queensland, and in the
second Fred B. had not a very flush hand
to show down. The string in the Koorboora
stable is headed by the Two Jacks and the
Tennyson, aged gallopers which none of the
visiting mining experts over a period of
years could greatly enthuse about. Taking
it all through the Two Jacks is a low-grade
show, and the Tennyson carries 3 or 4 p.c.
zinc, just too low to make flot'at’ou attrac-
tive, all conditions considered. They have
had one or two rather costly failures, and
their past history was not glittering enough
to warrant hawking on the American market.
* * * *
A movement is afoot on the An aide
(C.Q.) and adjacent sapphire-fields to force
the Government to terminate its gem-pur-
chase monopoly and permit open buying.
Miners are having a rocky time owing to
their inability to get rid of their findings.
The field is bountifully supplied with water
now, and an open market would create a
little local prosperity.
* H* sfc sfc
Two cos. and one syndicate are interested
in radium deposits in South Australia. Aus-
tralian Radium Corp. and the Radium and
Rare Earths’ Treatment Co. are both con-
trolled from Melbourne; Fred F. Tricks
is the secretary. The syndicate is the Min-
erva Heights Radium Syndicate, an Adelaide
venture. The Radium Corp. and the syu-
dicate own deposits near Mt. Painter, Flin-
ders Range; the Radium and Rare Earths’
Treatment Co. owns deposits at Olary. The
Radium Corp. bought the treatment plant at
Dry Creek from the Radium and Rare
Earths’ Treatment Co., and ore from Mt.
Painter has been treated there and radium
produced; preparations were also being
made to treat ore from Olary there, but
this has not been done up to the present.
The Minerva syndicate lias been engaged in
prospecting only. The R. and R. E. Treat-
ment Co. built a concentration plant at the
mine at Olary and produced some concen-
trate, but further treatment was not pro-
ceeded with. Neither companies nor syndi-
cate are operating their deposits at present.
The principal ores found at Mt. Painter arc
autunite and torbernite, besides which occur-
rences of radio-active minerals (fergusonito,
monazite, etc) have been noted. Torber-
nite (hydrated phosphate of copper and ura-
nium) is more abundant than autunite (hy-
drated phosphate of calcium and uranium).
At Olary the principal radio-active ore is
carnotite, a vanadate of uranium and potas-
sium, which is mainly associated with titan-
iferous iron ore. Traces of pitch-blende,
autunite and torbenite are stated to occur
also. Some radium has been sold in Aus-
tralia for £l7 per milligram, but the price
now is understood to be about £lO-£l2 per
milligram (3oz. Troy = 31,103.5 milligrams).
At the present time the world’s consump-
tion of radium is believed to be about 25
grams per year. The aggregate production
of radium in Australia to the present as
believed to be a little more than 1 gram,
and the world’s production up to the end of
1926 was estimated to exceed 500 grams.
* * * *
Adelaide Oil Exploration Co. has had a
night out with its chairman, J. T. Moate,
who is just back from Chile, South America,
lie explained that the oil-drilling concessions
held by the co. there had been placed in
jeopardy by a new mining law which,
amongst other things, called for a re-survey
of the lands covered by the concessions.
To do this would be both costly and useless.
Further, to accept the conditions of the new
law would make it impossible for the co.
to work successfully in Chile, where drilling
has been deferred until it is known whether
the Chilian Senate will amend the mining
law. For eight years the co. had worked
quietly in the search for oil in Australia and
Maoriland. Also it had been prospecting for
tin in Tasmania, mainly on behalf of Ameri-
can and British interests, and negotiations
were proceeding for two large tin properties,
the best of many offered. Prospecting for gold
in Central Australia had been suspended, and
the board was waiting to get a highly-quali-
fied gold-mining expert to report upon its
gold leases.
* * * *
According to the Westralian Minister for
Mines, a co. in which Urquhart, Corbould
and some of the rest of the Mt. Isa crowd
are interested is prepared to raise £lO,OOO to
bore on the Braeside silver-lead field in
North Westralia, provided the State Govern-
ment is willing to give a £-for-£ subsidy up
to that amount. Government experts have re-
ported on more than one occasion that Brae-
side outcrops are continuous for miles and
very high grade in places. So far nothing
has been done at depth.
* t- * *
Shareholders of Monte Carlo (W.A.) are
an unhappy lot. Some time ago a section
of them complained that the directors were
muddling things. Now another section, domi-
ciled in Perth, has met and vowed vengeance
against a new board for declaring a 6d. call.
They argue that calls could be avoided by
selling forfeited shares or securing a Gov-
ernment subsidy. There is some talk of
taking legal steps to test the board’s action.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe, Sand Queen, Riverina
South and Brilliant between them have re-
ceived about £lOO,OOO from the Westralian
Government as loans to be applied in efforts
to put life into the old shows. On the face
of it such finance is unsound; better results
might be looked for from smaller cash
advances made to owners of new shows hav-
ing some chance of developing into gold-
mines.
* * * *
Two of Ivalgoorlie’s one-time show mines,
Brownhill and Oroya, are up for sale by
tender. These blocks have yielded ,to date
millions of pounds’ worth of gold, the chief
source of production being the wonderful
Oroya shoot. Recently Oroya Links, which
worked these properties for some time,
asked the South Kurgurli, Ltd., to take
them over. It is the latter co. which is now
offering the Brownhill and Oroya for sale.
sk * * *
Recently Westralian Minister for Mines
Munsie expressed the belief that Wiluna
was destined to give a wonderful fillip to
Groperland mining. A few days later Pres-
ton Gardner (London director) declared that
the co was one of the biggest gold-mining
propositions in t.lie world, and when in full
operation would make up for Kalgoorlie s
decreased output. Gardner is a mining
engineer, and for some years was chairman
of the Associated Northern, Ltd.
* * * *
At last an official attempt is to be made to
find out why the Devon goldmine (W.A.)
is not paying. For years directors’ reports
have buoyed up shareholders with the hope of
putting the show on a dividend, instead of a
call-paying, basis, and for years The Bulle-
tin has questioned the possibility of this
being done. There is some gold in the mine,
but there does not appear to be sufficient to
enable operations under present conditions to
be carried on at a profit.
* * * *
The world’s visible supply of tin at Janu-
ary 31, 1928, was 14,851 tons, and the price
of the metal was about £250 per ton; where-
as at the end of January, 1927, visible sup-
plies were 14,193 tons, and the London price
was £293 per ton. The supplies received
during the month of January this year
amounted to 9184 tons compared with 8891
tons in the previous January, and the con-
sumption last month was 9072 tons as
against 9702 tons in January, 1927. The
statistical position certainly does not appear
to warrant a fall in the price of the metal,
since stocks amount to only about six weeks’
consumption.
:it >jc * *
With the sharp drop in the price of tin
last week, the metal hit the lowest mark
since May, 1924. People who have been
paying high prices for tin stocks realised the
possibilities of trouble and did a bit of
unloading. I/i spite of efforts on the part of
market manipulators scrip prices declined all
round. Many stocks are still over-valued
and a further period of selling seems likely.
The present outlook does not the
payment of premiums of from 50 to 75 per
cent, for shares in cos. which are not even
producing. Also there are some shows, pro-
ducing far below their prospectus estimates,
whose prospects will not be bright if the
price of the metal falls much further.
=s* * * *
“M.E.” : Some tin stock buyers have been
persuading themselves that, with tin even as
low as £2OO a ton, London, many of the
producing cos. will have a comfortable mar-
gin of profit. Most of the producers, how-
ever, sell direct from the dredge to the buying
and smelting firms, and are paid for oxide,
not for the refined metal, though the prob-
able content is always taken into considera-
tion. Taking the price of pure tin at £240
—it was £233 last week —the price obtained
at the dredge would be about £l4O per ton.
That figure is based on an assay value of 72
per cent, pure tin, with deductions for
Government rovalty, smelting and incidental
charges. *
* * s *
Lately word went round that Waihi
(M.L.) was turning its attention to Mal-
ayan tin. Leading brokers dealing in tin
stocks and men handling tin flotations know-
nothing of any such activities. Maybe the
high prices asked for tin land plus the uncer-
tainties of the tin market frightened Waihi
off —the uncertainties especially. Waihi is
not used to such things.
$ $ $ *
Malay-Siamese, a Sydney concern, has taken
a wider field in prospecting activities than
most of its contemporaries. Its properties now
include a sluicing show, an open-cast mine
and two dredging propositions, which began
operations in January. In addition the co.’s
option over a lode tin show at Kosabali,
on which a considerable amount of develop-
ment has been done, is to be taken up.
Two reefs, one at 157 feet and the other at
177 feet, have been proved by a tunnel. The
first is nine feet thick and in the second
the level was in five feet of stone with no
further wall yet showing. Samples from
surface outcrops run from 3.8 p.c. to 9.0
p.c. tin. As 2 p.c. would be payable anything
like these values in the main ore bodies
should return good results.
Phin Soon, the open-cast mine, is a good
producer, but the reorganisation of plant
lias not been speedy, costs are high and there
is a fairly large dead horse to be w-orked
off. Nawng Pet, a sluicing proposition, aiso
returns good averages, but the mine is liable
to heavy flooding during the monsoons, and
reconditioning is costly. Haad Yai’s dredge
began work in January, and seems to have
settled a dispute which has been raging over
this property since it was bored by Isaac
Boadle in 1926. He reported shallow ground
averaging about lib. to the yard. Then D.
Pasley and Harold Cundy asserted that the
ground was much richer, and that Boadle
had stopped his bores on a false bottom,
through which they had penetrated, finding
another layer of tin-bearing alluvium of
high average tin content. The co. now re-
ports that the dredge has proved the ex-
istence of this false bottom and the under-
laying karang, so the February return should
show- what values really are. The small turn-
over for January averaged .90lb. per c.y. The
co. bases its estimates on tin at £2OO, London.
Huey Yot is an older co.. founded in 1924.
but trouble with the suction-cutter dredge
delayed development. The old machine is
being converted into a bucket plant. There
has been no opportunity to judge recovery
values, which were reckoned as high as 31b.
per c.y. in some patches. Estimates are
based in this instance on tin at £'2so, Lon-
don, so a high recovery rate is essential.
The co.’s remaining options are referred to
as Central Siam, and this property is being
tested. The average depth is 40 feet, and
estimates run from 1.121 b. to 1.251 b. to the
yard. A company to work this property will
probably be formed next month.
:It * * *
Cliang Phra, an Austral Siamese show pro-
moted in Melbourne in September, 1926,
started with a property of 240 acres at
Ka Na, Siam, 100 acres of which were esti-
mated by J. A. Minto to go 19oz. to the yard.
By the end of last September the area had
been increased by another 34 acres. In addi-
tion to the 100 acres mentioned, 20 acres
have been bored for an average of 9.10 z., and
another 14 acres have gone Boz. to the yard,
the remainder of the property having yet to
be tested. As an option has been secured
over another 250 acres close by it looks as
if the co. were still hunting for more satis-
factory country. It was decided early last
year to get a bucket dredge, but no mention
is made of this having been ordered.
* * * *
Guinea Gold, the New Guinea show on the
Bulolo, continues to turn out gold and pro-
gress reports. Most of its contemporaries
maintain a silence about gold recoveries or
anything else. In January the Ivoranga
claims, which seem to comprise the best
section of the co.’s properties, cleaned up
8320 z. gold and 3400 z. specimen stuff. The
latter is estimated to hold some 2380 z. gold.
The Bulolo gold is poor quality, but the
output should show a good profit.


IT MUST BE SOMETHING LIKE THIS, THEN
“Melbourne Grammar School boys now touring India describe Delhi as bearing a strong resemblance to Canberra in many respects."


Ssr W
Bottle* of 36, 2/3
Bottle* of XO®, 4 /9
TEASTON
Pure dried
BrcwersYeast
One to four Tableto
Rocke To
A Free Full Size Sample Bottle
will be sent to you, post free, if you simply cut out
this advertisement (or mention the Bulletin) and send
with your name and address to
Rocke, Tompsitt & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Flinders Street, Melbourne
The secret of buoyant spirits and never-tiring, energy lies in healthy,
normal digestion. Fatigue, headaches and depression are usually
caused by faulty elimination of waste.
Fresh, active yeast is a proven corrective to digestive troubles. Yeast
consists of millions of tiny plants which act a; healthful cleansing
agents in the system. Yeaston Tablets are guaranteed to contain
live (active) yeast cells.
Qet the Yeaston habit.' Keep a supply of these handy tablets.
Make sure they’re Yeaston. living yeast.
“A clear spotless
skin denotes health
from within.”
J^ e
A 1 ,*
-4°
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Girl Friend’’
Criterion “All the King’s Horses”
Royal “The Trial of Mary Dugan”
Palace “The Goldfish”
Empire “The Film Girl”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “The Student Prince”
King's “A Cuckoo in the Nest”
Royal “The Terror”
Athen.eum Moving Pictures
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
There are no verbal pyrotechnics in C. E.
Oppenshaw’s "All The King’s Horses,” which
the Boucicault-Vanbrugh company com-
menced to show at the Sydney Criterion last
Saturday. The first act is devoted to the
portrayal of a household oppressed by the
dignified stodginess of Wilfred Everitt, a
pretentious despot who has just filled the
cup of the family’s misery to the brim by
putting a heavy foot on the artistic impulses
of his son Jack and the love affairs of his
daughter Jill. At this stage Mrs. Everitt
learns that her pious husband, whose life
has always seemed the acme of dreary impec-
cability, had had at least one hectic spasm
whilst a student at Oxford, and that, in spite
of a substantial cheque in full settlement of
the claims of his discarded love and her
daughter, the ghost of the old scandal
threatens to walk again now that Everitt’s
knighthood has brought him into the glare
of publicity. Instead of being shocked and
outraged at the discovery, Mrs. Everitt is
overjoyed to find herself in possession of a
weapon with which she can knock her
Humpty-Dumpty off the wall of his dignity.
Having insisted that he should undo ail the
wrong his Pharisaism has wrought, she
leaves him ; but is drawn back to a recon-
ciliation by the ties of her old home. The
humiliated and penitent Everitt, no less bor-
ing because of his penitence, swears to give
up his political ambitions and devote him-
self entirely to his wife in the future; a very
artistic “curtain” is provided by Mrs.
Everitt’s dismay at that alarming prospect.
* * * *
The heavyweight husband is essentially
something of a caricature in the early acts;
Norman McKinnel shows his artistry by
compelling sympathy, in his last-act moments
of exposure and brokenness, for the over-
sketched bore of the earlier periods. But
the play ,of course, is Irene Vanbrugh’s. Miss
Vanbrugh develops with rare skill from the
capable, subdued and tired wife of the first
act, through the slightly vinous excite-
ment of the second, to the charmingly senti-
mental lady of the third, who, having gained
her freedom, finds she cannot tear out the
roots of her old life. Boucicault himself,
as the wife’s brother, is very much a lay
figure to which other characters confide the
things the audience needs to know, in which
subordinate capacity lie resembles several
similar characters he has played in other
pieces. Among the others, Ronald Ward
infuses some youthful brightness into the
part of son Jack, and Peggy Carter does nice
work as the Servant Powers.
“Mercenary Mary” showed herself a con-
siderably changed lady at the revival at Syd-
ney St. Janies Theatre last Saturday. An
altered cast and a few new dances give the
bright trifle a new vitality. Elsie Prince pre-
sents the acquisitive being who spurs her lover
to allow her to go to extremes in his pursuit
of his uncle’s cash—the extremes include
a champagne outburst in the flat of Jerry
Warner (Charlton Morton), whose business
it is to compromise the lady for uncle’s bene-
fit. Jimmy Godden, in spite of a handicap
of elderliness for an essentially youthful part,
effects a great improvement in the character
of the man who objects to being called a
“Cwumb” ; and Nellie Dean, who sings and
acts charmingly, does even more for Joan
Somers; Florence Hunter, who was imported
for this part, had a pleasing voice and
appearance, but there was a lugubrious in-
flection in her warbling, as if her fancy was
perpetually turning to funerals. Elsie Parkes
as Phyllis Webster, George Willoughby
(Sir Henry Somers), Leonard Rich (Peter
Webster) and George Jennings (Bellamy
Shepherd, Jerry’s uncle) are the main sup-
porters. In its brightened form “Mercenary
Mary,” which is the farewell of Elsie Prince
and Jimmy Godden, will run on until the
Fuller’s Grand Opera venture commences on
March 10.
This Showman, having seen the “book,” can
recommend “The Goldfish,” with which
Muriel Starr supersedes “The Eternal Mag-
dalene” on Saturday at Sydney Palace, as an
entertaining comedy with an uncommonly
humorous second act. The “last weeks” of
“The Film Girl” at the Empire are being
announced, but the weeks seem likely to be
several. Bobby Jarvis, who is a good deal
of the milk in the cocoanut, was due to leave
this week but is staying on until the end
of the season. “The Girl Friend,” in which
Lorna Helms hurt herself whilst hurling
the hotel clerk over the counter one day last
week but pluckily carried on, proceeds witli
unabated vigor and attendances at Her
Majesty’s, where the management is already
calculating the chances of a better-than-“ Rose
Marie” success. The audience brings in its
verdict nightly at “The Trial of Mary
Dugan”; it is to the effect that the play
suits the public taste.
* * *
Shakspeare is getting a fair spin at Sydney
Conservatorium, where “Twelfth Night” is
to be staged on successive weeks under dif-
ferent auspices. The first production, start-
ing on February 23 and lasting for four
nights, is under the direction of Heath
Burdock; the second, which will be directed
by the old Shakspearean actor Arthur
Greenaway, gets going on February 29 for
four nights and a matinee—on the Saturday.
There ought to be enough support, especially
from the schools, to make both ventures suc-
cessful ; there will be an additional interest
for some people in comparing the two produc-
tions.
* * * *
When Fullers’ Theatre switched into a
new mixture of frivolity last Saturday the
evidence of a daybreak spent at a friend’s
wedding was very plain. Lance Vane, the
’groom, was absent, but Ernest Crawford
was back to fill the vacancy; and the fun
jolted on with unusual hilarity and a super-
abundance of the sort of jokes that are
romembered when a dear friend commits
matrimony. The programme, which is called
“Whips and Quips,” and includes a very
good skit on “The Golden Casket,” con-
tinues all this week.
The biggest electrics have been hoisted out-
side Sydney Tivoli to proclaim that “escapolo-
gist” Murray has arrived ; outside the theatre
sundry citizens have had the fact impressed
on them by the occasional spect n cle of a
man heavily chained and strait-jacketed hang-
ing head down from lofty cranes and releasing
himself in the space of a few minutes. Hardly
as versatile as Houdini, who was an all-round
entertainer when he liked, Murray presents
an amazing act; apparently there is no chain
or rope or box that will hold him. The
“Colored Idea” fades into something white
after Friday night; but the absence of the
coons will cause no distress. A pleasing
feature of recent Tivoli programmes is the
success of Australian acts. In one recent
bill George Herod, the cycling Duffys and
Maggie Foster easily gathered the most
applause.
Steele Rudd’s story “The Romance of
Runnybede,” produced by Eva Novak and
company with the aid of a party of genuine
black Australians, is to take up the running
at Sydney Crystal Palace. “Adam and Evil”
is an amusing light comedy built upon wild
improbabilities but buoyantly acted by Aileeii
Pringle and Lew Cody; it is bracketed with
“Wolf Fang” as the Hoyt attraction. At
“THE GIRL FRIEND,”
AT SYDNEY
HER MAJESTY’S.
Innie Croft, as Kitty Brown; Gus Bluett,
as a henpecked husband.
die Lyceum there is a good twin bill with
•‘Figures Don’t The” and “The Romantic
Age,” which latter film shows that a picture
can touch even cabaret scenes and remain
undefiled. “Figures Don’t Lie” has uproari-
ous moments, but the explanation needed to
untangle a perfectly innocent domestic mix-
up was beyond the scenario writer, who
•imply drags in the happiness without en-
'•rhten’ng patrons as to how it arrives.
“DON JUAN.”
According to the antique tale, Don Juan
A symbol was for godless lust and pride,
Who brought a number of fair maids to ruin
And wrecked some happy married homes
beside.
In towns so far apart as Rheirns and Gades.
Wherefore the Devil took him down to Hades.
Now Hollywood takes up the tale. The
youngster,
It seems, was quite a decent chap at heart.
Unfortunately he was reared amongst a
Bad lot of Spanish hats right from the
start;
And, furthermore, his good intents to
smother.
Was set a vile example by his mother.
“THE STUDENT PRINCE,” AT
MELBOURNE HIS MAJESTY’S.
Two impressions of Arthur Stigant as Lutz.
He noted that his mother had a lover
And that the lover foolishly got caught.
Alas that Fate beneath his nose should
shove a
Disreputable moral of this sort!
Lacking a Young Men’s Christian A. in
Seville
Young Juan went unheeded to the Devil.
But virtue always (always!) is victorious,
If not in actual life, upon the screen.
She whispered to him that this life in-
glorious
Would make a shocking ending to the
scene;
Then spread around his heart like a liana
The fingers of the Donna Adriana,
The lawful wedded wife, if most unwilling,
Of Borgia, a monster cold and cruel,
Who spent his week-ends playing golf?—
no, killing!
Divorce in ancient Rome was not the rule,
But Juan’s fencing fairly took the biscuit —
He pinked the Borgia through his evil
brisket.
Epilogue (without authority).
So Juan gave up looking for adventures,
Married and went to mass and evensong,
Put all his savings into safe debentures
And proved (you think) the ancient story
wrong.
Not so! His tastes were different from his
lady's—
The pretty devil gave Don Juan Hades!
M. G. S.
* % * *
John Barrymore is the incredibly hand-
some hero of the above romantic tale
unfolded twice daily at Melbourne Audi-
torium. In “The Romantic Age,” at the Majes-
tic, Alberta Vaughan demonstrates convin-
cingly that a girl can have a good time and
yet qualify for a life of domestic bliss with
a husband much her senior. But she must he
a wise girl, too. Eugene O’Brien is her
ravishing screen lover. In “The Magic
Flute,” at Hoyt’s, Vilma Banky burns her
beautifully manicured hands, but Ronald
Coleman applies lip salve to the wounds,
and all comes r'ght in the grand finale.
* * * *
A vigilance officer of the Scene-painters’
Union should seriously study “Spooks,” the
mystery play at Melbourne Palace. Its one
and only set consists of a room in a haunted
house. Three of the walls are as solid as
the stage mechanic can make them, but the
fourth, facing the audience, is left to the
imagination. Members of the cast approach-
ing the haunted home from the stalls knock
on a mental picture of a door and proceed
to wipe their feet on the figment of a door-
mat. The people supposed already to be
inside start violently and remark that there
must be somebody outside. Whoreuuon one
of them rushes to the visionary portal, turns
the fiction of a door-handle and the callers
step inside. On the occasions when The
Bulletin was present the audience sat para-
lysed with amazement the first time the
quaint ritual was enacted. But the second
time it was taaen quite as a matter of course.
Which suggests that the up-to-date producer
of the future will dispense with all scenery,
as was done in the Bard’s day. After all
pretending a wall is there when it isn’t is no
more absurd than accepting four supers in
Australian rabbit-skins as Henry V.’s expedi-
tionary force in France.
The panto, ceased to pant at Melbourne
Princess on Saturday, and that ornate em-
porium of the arts will take a rest-cure until
further orders from its medical advisers.
“A Cuckoo” is laying moderate nest-eggs
at the King’s, and “The Student Prince”
is breathing its last weeks at His Majesty's.
When the management begins distributing
autographed portraits of the star it is a
sign that the undertakers are hurrying to the
scene. Stilly and Mo are immersed in their
seventeenth week and their seventeenth blaze
of originality at the Bijou. Owing to the
popularity of “Chang,” the pictured story of
Siam, the Athenmum is announcing abso-
lutely no free list, which is an unusual pro*
ceeding for one of the most philanthropic
managements in town.
* * * *
The audiences of “The Terror” at Mel-
bourne Royal leave an unusual amount of
impedimenta behind them. The cleaners
have found a wedding ring, a bank book, a
fur necklet, false teeth and several purses.
This is ascribed by the Firm’s official pro-
pagandist to the enthralling atmosphere
created by Edgar Wallace’s tripy spoofer,
but those who retain some slight regard for
artistic decency upon the stage may come to
other conclusions. The man who left his
new hat behind the other night, for instance,
may have first jumped on it with rage at
seeing Maurice Moscovitcli wasting his fine
talents on the part of Ferdinand Fanf
Moscovitcli in the privacy of his dressing-
room may perhaps occasionally jump on his
own headgear.
* * * *
The ghosts of “Ruddigorc” are shortly to
commence walking out of their frames for
the first time in Melbourne at His Majesty’s.
South Australian James Hay—he of the
mellifluous tenor voice—will produce Gilbert
and Sullivan’s musical melodrama. In the
meantime “The Student Prince” will continue
to sit for his examination.
* * * *
On Melbourne Tivoli’s current bill the
four Phillips, remarkable balancers with
apparently cast-iron occiputs, escape from
death a dozen times per evening. Nor are
Snell and Vernon, aerial gymnasts, to be de-
spised. Hector St. Clair continues to extract
innumerable laughs by the economical pro-
cess of looking like a graven image, and Syd
Burchell appeals to the reckless instincts of
pew-renters by dressing in debonair rags and
singing about the advantages of perpetual
unemployment. Ann Suter departs this
Melbourne life on Saturday, deeply regretted
by a large circle of acquaintances. Flowers,
by request.
At the Adelaide Theatre Royal, the J.C.M.
Comedy Co. is reviving “The Alarm
Clock,” an Avery Hopwood farce. The
story deals with some innocent country
cousins who arrive in New York, where they
take to night clubs and cocktails like fluffy
ducklings to water. If the management had
kept to popular prices instead of raising
them they would have done better business;
as it is Nellie Bramley has taken the crowd
with her to the Prince of Wales, where
“Mixed Doubles,” is making a hit. Fullers
Majestic Theatre is offering bright revue in
“Lantern Land,” where nothing is more
popular than Nat piano playing
and songs. If there is anything Adelaide
doesn’t know about New York, “Wolf’s Clotli-
ing,” at West's, is guaranteed to supply the
information. “Man Power,” at the York,
gives Richard Dix a chance to save a whole
town from destruction when a dam threatens
to overflow. The Wondergraph two
excellent pictures in “Service for Ladies’ ana
“The Nervous Wreck.” At the Grand
“Tumbling River” features Tom Mix as a
rancher.
“Jeune Veuve” : Someone wrote into 3LO
Melbourne the other day to blackguard the
management for putting on such a rotten
Sunday-night programme. This critic damned
everyone and everything. “The limit, he
wrote, “the crowning insult to my intelli-
gence, was when two low comedians P re ‘
sumed to sing ‘Lord God of Abraham from
‘Elijah.’ ” The point of the joke lies in the
fact that the two singers were Humphrey
Bishop and Walter Kingsley, who have sung
“Elijah” in London in the very best produc-
tions of oratorio. Of course, they were
announced by 3LO as of um Pr 1 -i < iI
Bishop’s comedy co., of the Cairo, St. Ivilda
Esplanade,” where this bright _ combination
is playing a season. St. Kilda is like Naza-
reth —no good thing can out ot it.


Ok
Brisbane
ce>n/r>tp of
Qup<?ns/anc/o
Vis fin Puis fleet
Soc/a/ Life.
n
Magnificent Ballroom, Palm
Court, and Lounges at the
disposal of guests and their
friends at all times.
hfg
Suites de Luxe—double and single Bedrooms, with Bath-
rooms attached. Hot and cold running water and Electric
Fans in every Bedroom, together with every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
TELEGRAMS & CABLES LENNONS, BRISBANE.
TELEPHONE CENT. .5780 (lO LINES).
Such a reputation is not won overnight
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ 20 for 1/6
Major Drapkin <B Co., London. Branch of The United
Kingdom Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
*•© V>
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Wingella” (N.T.) : Polo ponies recently
imported into the Malay States from the
Territory won the highest encomiums from
enthusiasts who saw them landed at Singa-
pore. They were in poor condition, and had
suffered somewhat from a rough sea-passage,
but rapidly improved. Stocky, short-backed,
SURE SIGNS.
FIRST LADY COCKY: “And did you hear that Cora was gettin’ married?”
SECOND LADY COCKY: “Yes! Is it true?”
FIRST LADY COCKY: “I think it must be, because Jack is buildin’ a dairy and puttin’
up cow bails on his place.”
sound and young, they were station-bred, and
had done a fair amount of work on the runs.
One of them was a descendant of Carbine.
There is a big demand for this class of pony,
and the Territory should be able to supply
its quota, for the stations up here breed
hacks that can turn on a threepenny-piece
and put in day after day of gruelling work.
* H- * *
“Cuchulain”: As to friendships between
animals (B. 25/l/’2B). We had a kitten
which chummed up with a motherless and
sightless little kangaroo. They slept together
(Joe would not sleep at night till Tom turned
up), drank from the same dish and had great
games. Every morning a special rite was
performed after their breakfast; Tom would
hold Joe’s head firmly between two fore-
paws and wash his face thoroughly. When
the ’roo died a disconsolate cat walked rest-
lessly about the place for weeks, looking in
most unlikely places for his mate. When
shortly afterwards a wallaroo skin was put
down on one of the floors the cat could not
be induced to step on it, even with the induce-
ment of food placed there.
:|: * * *
“Murphlat”: Re “Almurta’s” grasshopper
invasion (B. 5/l/’2B). On the Murray
flats we have them periodically. The ’hop-
pers hatch in the hard bare flats in myriads,
and are usually attended by flocks of birds
about the size of a starling with a slaty-blue
body, a dark head and bronze under wings.
These birds follow the ’hoppers as they
travel and build flimsy nests—frequently de-
serted if the ’hopper supply runs out. They
prefer the ’hopper in its early stages, and
that is the period when pastoralists who
attacked the plague in a scientific way on the
stations east of Burra (S.A.) found them
easiest to check. Incidentally, a flight of
’hoppers on a bright moonlight night is a
sight not readily forgotten.
•*k ik :k ik
“Sea-Nomad”: New Guinea canoe-builders
are experts who hold their job by hereditary
right. Different classes of vessels are built,
ranging from the huge war canoes, through
the intermediate fishing craft, down to the
“torpedo” canoe. The trees generally
worked by the tribes adjoining the Dutch
New Guinea border are the mah-moro', the
goo-goobah and the matoo-bah. They are
of very tough, and yet comparatively light,
wood. When chipped out and seasoned the
shell will stand the action of sea and sun
without splitting. The “torpedo” craft are
tiny vessels of duar wood, which is excep-
tionally light. The masts of the larger
vessels are of black mangrove. The ropes
are very strong, being made of twisted
cocoa-husk or, more commonly, of the bush
vine, a creeper composed of long strands
of tough fibre. The sails are of cocoanut
matting, very closely plaited, and of great
strength and resiliency in the strong winds.
The canoes are built for trade with the
various tribes and the Torres Islanders, with
whom at one time an extensive yearly
business was done. In the good old days
the price of a canoe was reckoned in skulls,
varying in number with the size of the
canoe. This time-honored currency is still
good in parts of New Guinea, but the Torres
Islanders, being now civilised, use shell
EXPERT ADVICE.
“Thee’ll never break up they rocks that way, m’ son.”
“Can’t do any better, mister—’ammer is too light.”
“Doan’t ’ee blame ’ammer, boay; use your ’ead.”
money, mostly the rare armshell; this is
worth in our money from £4 to £8, accord-
ing to the quality and size of the shells.
One average armshell will buy a small canoe,
and three a large one. The Torres Islanders
now use mostly canvas sails, the purchase
money for which they get from trochus-sliell
fishing. The “torpedo” canoes are similar
to our fancy speed boats. They skim along
the surface as if made of cork, yet, for all
their lightness, are very seaworthy.
* # * *
“The Welkin” : The sundowner makes very
little use of the huts provided for him in
the Murray River country by philanthropic
squatters. Only when it is raining will ’Enry
condescend to honor the building with his
presence. He argues that there is no sense
in travellin’ the road for the pure air it
provides if he is to sleep in huts. One travel-
ler I met near Swan Hill tried to cadge
a “bit o’ mutton” from a tight-fisted sheep-
man. “All right,” he said when refused,
“I’m damned if I’ll sleep in yer ’ut now!”
The hut in question is in good order (or
was the last time I saw it) ; but it was never
made use of while I was in that part of the
country, though passed daily by travellers.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: The argument as to
whether goanna-oil penetrates glass recalls to
me an experience with a ship’s officer. He
showed me a globe, six inches in diameter,
made of glass nearly half an inch thick;
inside it was about a teaspoonful of water.
My acquaintance told me that these globes
when empty were used as buoys to hold open
the mouth of trawling-nets used by scien-
tific expeditions to bring up specimens
of fish, etc., from the deepest part of the
Atlantic. The terrific pressure at a depth
of several miles beneath the surface —some-
where about 12,0001b. to the square inch —
had, in the course of a week’s trawling,
forced the water through the glass into the
empty space.
* H: * *
“Mundowie”: As a road maintenance
man, Dan Clodd was required to be actively
about in wet weather when washaways were
likely to endanger traffic. For that reason
the regulations obliged him to provide him-
self with oilskins and waterproof boots. It
was an expense that Dan grumbled over
unceasingly, for a six-months’ drought fol-
lowed the purchase. Then one day Dan
was discovered shivering in a treetop. He
had been making for his camp across low
ground when storm waters from distant hills
rushed on to him. It was the only time he
needed oilskins on his job, and when he
reached his camp the flood had washed them
away. Though another dry spell followed
he had to provide himself with anew outfit.
“An’ I never wore that, either/’ said Dan
in an injured tone. “When a wet day came
at last, an’ I was puttin ’it on, a flamin’
spider that ’ad made its home in one of
the sleeves bit me on the arm. That kept
me in town for a week. When I got back
a bush-fire had burnt the whole caboodle.”
Dan spat on his hands and aimed a vimful
blow at a lump of blue metal. “That’s why
I’m crackin’ stones now,” he added. “It’s
a steady job, an’ nobody cares whether I’ve
got waterproofs or a bathin’ suit.”
* * * *
“Mick Anic”: At Fassifern (N.S.W.)
there is a long-haired, rough-faced cattle-dog
whose self-imposed duty is delivering papers.
The people who own him live 100 yards or
so from the station. Trains may pass in
any number, but it’s a safe bet that he picks
the right one every time. He starts work on
the arrival of the paper train from Sydney
at 5.30 a.m.; 6.15 a.m. from Newcastle is
his next; and at 5 p.m. he finishes with the
Newcastle evening print. When he was a
puppy his owner gave him two lessons in
carrying the paper, and that was all the
instruction he got; since then he has worked
on his own account without word of com-
mand. Late trains occasionally trick him,
but he always arrives with the goods.
# * * *
“Manuka”: I have often been asked for
methods of finding the north if lost in un-’
explored bush. The inquiry raises the ques-
tion what procedure the lost person, having
fixed the north, would follow. As far
as I can see the knowledge in such circum-
stances would be of no earthly use to him—
that is, if he were lost properly. From ex-
perience I have found that landmarks are
much more useful than a compass in open
or semi-open country. No one but a fool
would bustle into thick bush without blazing
a track. Every bushman takes this pre-
caution, even though he has a fairly good
working knowledge of the country generally.
I should like to hear from some of the “car-
dinal-point” experts exactly what they would
do to extricate themselves, supposing they
were completely lost in thick scrub, if given
a compass and no further information. To
make the problem harder, suppose the country
to be flat and the view of any surrounding
hills blocked by scrub?
(Continued on page 21.)
THE TALES THEY'LL TELL A
BLOKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I made out that I took it in; I never cracked
a boo;
Cripes ! ’e’d ’a’ ’ad a fit if ’e’d ’a’ known ’ow
much I knoo ;
But all I says was jist “Go on!” an’ ’e —’e
never woke.
Gorblimey, ain’t it marvellous the tales they’ll
tell a bloke?
They come ter yer so serious an’ wise yer
wot is wot,
An’ wot they’ve done, an’ wot they’ve seen—•
they give yer all the lot.
A feller orter pull ’em up as soon as they
begin,
But still yer’ve gotter larf at times at the
damn lies they spin.
A man don’t like ter be a nark, but struth!
it gits me goat
When anybody tries ter ram ’is rubbish down
me throat.
I alius try ter live in peace, fer I ain’t
quarrelsome,
But—well, ’e should ’ave stopped a punch,
the tale ’e tried to come.
’E sits jist there acrost the fire an’ ’e says
“ ’Onor bright,
It’s dinkum wot I tell yer, Joe,” an’ I says
“Yairs, that’s right.”
I orter told the blanker orf, it fairly made
me itch
Ter put ’im in ’is proper place, the plod
’e tried ter pitch.
It might ’ave done ’im lots er good, the
young conceited pup,
Ter show ’im wot I knoo about wot ’e was
puttin’ up.
I orter told ’im wot was wot an’ larfed the
coot ter scorn,
Fer, spare me days, I told that yarn ’fore
ever ’e was born.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


MR
%
PBlilii
«tfl
v KSSSRS
rwan
M —BB
— r —~—^
“1
* if? • I ■ '.
!
isillliiilli
Him
llii#
liliilillllli
m
IJM Pk
jig |
-.
m
111
r ■
:
■%w
_ 'wMJI
IY- j
\ - , , . ; W: . *
£
mt^m
■ ■>■■
<w*j
H.
ffcv'
v V : . \.
il
4
i mmm
. -■•■ id
HH| I
If
s
I ■
- 'Vn : *«L
wV
~,.
j ft
■
?
rfy^
a
mkm
;•• / '■' 7
fj
# K- pi j; f ,; ; ; i-$1 «;
la II
' #
,1
s.
■
I.
*r a ’
*
m
n
::y«Bi
■
m
m
s
■
£
■ \. |
TOAftiiLi
tWK!
rm*
•- ;4
K
ans!
i®tn
ipP**' ' 7'U
Plil§F v JA& -':
B
■ ■ •* •■
:
II IW
:
■
£..
i
KlZf
mm
tl
\\
.
•
mm
■
/
-it’s the result that counts!
Behind every crop there has been good
seed and preparation of the soil, etc. Good
results don’t just happen. It’s the same
with motor tyres you can only get the
wear and service that the manufacturer
puts into them; that is why Australian
□
n
a
have won such a great reputation for
mileage and dependable service. The finest
materials the world produces go into every
Dunlop, plus the knowledge gained over
a period of 25 years building tyres for
Australian conditions. Ask Dunlop users
how they stand up to hard work. Let their
experience guide you to real tyre satisfaction.
* * *
Buy Dunlop from your Garage !
* * »
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.
AI! States and N.Z.


ii
An
Australian
Wool
Firm
Founded by Aus-
tralians, conducted
oy Australians, the
whole of its capital
subscribed in Aus-
tralia, confining its
activities to Aus-
tralia, selling wool
on behalf of Aus-
tralian clients.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
WOOLBROKERS,
Winchcombe House, Bridge St-, Sydney,
and 99-101 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Top values consistently result from their capable,
energetic work as salesmen.
L- {
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
PEAPES
•—for men AND their sons.
To shop habitually at Peapes’
is to enjoy CONSISTENT
VALUE, to secure the finest
and best in everything for
men and boys, and to appre-
ciate the difference created
by an efficient and helpful
staff, quiet surroundings and
a leisurely atmosphere of
comfort and convenience.
George Street
(Opp. Hunter Street),
Sydney.
A FINE HAUL FOR SOMEONE.
MUM (seeing dad off to the city); “Now, take care of yourself, father, and do look
out for that there razor gang.”
E.S.S.’ : The shed cook was travelling
the rounds with his wife and daughter in a
two-horse buggy, and at the cut-out they
joined in the day’s sports at the wayside pub.
The cook said he didn’t know much about
racing, but entered one of the buggy-horses
for the big handicap “just for sport.’’ The
girl rode him and won. Then the cook pro-
duced a bicycle from the back, of the buggy,
rolled his trousers up, and won the most
important wheel-race. “You can’t be up to
these racin’ blokes,” growled the publican,
who had dropped his bit on the double.
“They come at you in all sorts of ways.”
Subsequently the cook was seen wheeling
along a good stretch of road, miles ahead of
the buggy. He was training for the next
cut-out.
* ( * * *
“ Jacaranda”: Touching Solomon Island
eating-bowls (B. 19/l/’2B). I have seen one
used in preparation for a feast. On a
specially-erected platform Marys were slic-
ing raw taro, while on the ground round
about groups of both sexes were cracking
open native almonds —a nut which has a
delicious flavor and contains a great deal
of oil. Men gathered up baskets of the
sliced taro and nut kernels and emptied
them into the long trough. When it was
about half full they used clean-stripped ends
of saplings as pestles and vigorously pounded
the mixture. The resulting paste was
wrapped in banana leaves, bound with cane
ligatures, and cooked on hot stones. The
puddings were then hung aside until re-
quired. A photo, taken at the time shows
nine men pounding at one side of the bowl,
which was therefore over nine feet long.
While the one described by “Nikko” may
have served some more fearsome purpose it
is probably only one of these harmless
pudding bowls.
* * * *
“Motuku”: “Toonooba’s” flag-wagging
parrot-fishes (B. 19/l/’2B) often use their
nut-cracker jaws to crush small shell-fish,
which they wrench from the rocks or pick
up from the bottom. The whole crushed
mass is swallowed and undigested fragments
of shell are to be found in the fish’s
intestines. The little black-spotted sea perch,
Lutianus fulviflamma, also stands on his
head and wags his tail —so violently that
he is driven head first into the sand. One
may net a large shoal of these game little
fighters on a sandy bottom and haul the net
ashore quite empty. Ika Motua stops haul-
ing when the water shoals to about knee-
depth and then, with bits of white coral or
cocoa-nut meat, he marks down the burrow-
ing fish. When they are all tagged he
goes round with his spear and, jabbing the
sand round each little sign-post, quickly
gathers them in.
* * * *
“Toonooba”: The fact that I averaged the
length of Great Barrier clams at 2ft. 6in.
implied that I had seen individual specimens
which exceeded that length. There are in-
accuracies in “A.W.L.’s” description of a
gaping clam (B. 19/l/’2B), and he has
little warrant for likening the bivalve to a
THE FIRST LESSON IN SALESMANSHIP.
SHOP ASSISTANT: “Gentleman in the shop, sir, wants to know will this woollen vest
shrink.”
PROPRIETOR: “Is it too big for him?”
SHOP ASSISTANT: “Yes, sir.”
PROPRIETOR: “Then of course it will shrink!”
aea-anemone. The clam’s twin-mantle lobes
are attached to the valves by muscles whose
scars of attachment are well defined. Along
the median line the lobes fuse, but the
junction line is interrupted by two openings,
one for inhaling and the other for exhaling,
which can be expanded. By maintaining
a constant circulation of water the clam is
able to draw food and oxygen from the sea.
When a piece of coral is thrown upon the
tissues there is often a lag of a few seconds
before the bivalve moves; then a rapid par-
tial closure occurs, and the resulting out-
wash generally suffices to eject the foreign
matter. If unsuccessful, the clam spasmodi-
cally squirts a jet from the exhalant open-
ing in an effort to dislodge the irritant.
* * * *
“Pudden”: Does a snake borrow a hole
from some more industrious digger or is it
the architect and excavator of its own home?
I’ve known them repeatedly to take up their
dwelling in the homes of other creatures,
evicted or swallowed, and have also known
them to enlarge a hole commenced by others;
but never have I known a snake do all his
own delving from start to finish. Do they
ever do so?
* * * . *
“Rob P.”: Ted Vincent is a Digger who
threw up a city job worth £l2 a week to
go hunting the flying-fox. He was in charge
of the Brisbane City Council’s rat destroyers,
and results and expenses since he left have
proved that at £6OO a year he was cheap.
Ted, however, reckons his new venture is
just as remunerative. He has some sort of
agreement with the Government, and also
collects 3d. per dead flying-fox from the
shire council in whose area he kills. Recently
I put in several days with him in the Wood-
ford district, where he was giving a camp
of the fruit-raiders the benefit of his war
experience. Besides shotguns, Ted uses a
kind of trench mortar; it consists of a length
of 3in. steel pipe fitted with a “touch” hole
and sealed at one end. Loaded with buck-
shot and fired by fuse or electricity, a battery
of these accounts for thousands of the pest
at one firing. Unfortunately, some of the
shire councils refuse to fall into line with
those who are paying a per capita rate, with
the result that some districts are a sanctuary
for one of the worst pests fruit-farmers
know.
* * * *
“Pick”: About three years ago, in a home
orchard at Katoomba (N.S.W.), an apple-
tree that had shown poor results was cut
down and left to die where it fell. A thin
shred of unsevered bark not half an inch in
width attached the fallen tree to its stump,
and finding no signs of decay the owner, by
way of experiment, left the tree to see how
long it would subsist. Instead of dying it
continued to flourish more healthily than
before its fall, and has since borne two
heavy crops of excellent apples.
* * * *
“Titun”: I agree with “Max” (B.
19/l/’2B) when he says that the destruction
of our native flora leads to the disappear-
ance of indigenous birds. Add to this rhe
habit of the imported starling of stealing
the nesting-holes of our birds which prefer
the trees of the bushland for their homes.
The fox, too, takes its toll of the ground-
nosting birds, while the domestic cat gone
wild is an enemy whose havoc among the
smaller-winged creatures can hardly be esti-
mated.
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: A flat sponge unknown
to commerce is found on the small beaches
of Westralia. From a single stem it
spreads into an irregular disc, wavy, dark-
yellow in color, and up to the size of a
bushman’s soup-plate. In my opinion it
equals the best chamois cloth for washing
glass and other smooth, hard surfaces.
When in use its keen grip can be felt, and
a single squeeze discharges the absorbed
fluid completely. It has but one drawback
—it doesn’t look clean.
* * * *
“K.K.” (Los Angeles) : The bull-roarer of
the Australian blacks is also used by the
Indians of Arizona, U.S.A. The Hopis buzz
it just before their snake dance, when the
medicine men dance with live snakes in
their mouths. I also saw it used by the
Apaches during their devil dance. One
dancer spins it around; the others, who
imitate the devils, hop about pretending to bo
afraid of the sound.
* * * *
“Cooramin”: One of the most deceptive
jobs to a newchum is pot-sticking (wool-
washing) at a bush wool scour. It looks
easy, as demonstrated by a practised hand,
and newchum goes at it confidently, with
self-congratulations at having dropped into
such a rosy “collar.” Soon he begins to
puff and sweat, and looks about with a
worried expression; a little later he wonders
why pot-stickers are so plentiful at the
price. Such was the brief experience of
Percy. At the first smoke-o he approached
the boss. “Hey, master,” he said almost
prayerfully, “could you shift I on to the
green?” “Why, what’s the matter?” asked
the boss. “I baint got the constitution of
they other chaps,” Percy said. “Pot-stickin’
don’t fit I on the back.”
“TIME I WAS MOVIN’ ON.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Time I was movin’ on,” he’d say an’ pick
Matilda up
An slew the knot to suit his gait an’
whistle to his pup.
His hair was sorter dusty-grey; skin tanned
like any Turk;
None ever knew him do crook things, none
ever knew him work.
The bush holds lots just like him, but now
old Dan is gone
He’s remembered by his formula, “Time I
was movin’ on.”
Sometimes we might be fencin’ or campin'
with a mob
When, like as not, the dust would clear and
in old Dan would lob.
Just dump his swag an’ pass the time an’
take a drink and snack
Of tea an’ anything we’d got, then once
more face the track.
His hand above his shaggy brows, the sky-
line he would con,
Then take his leave (with thanks implied) :
Time I was movin’ on.”
We’d ask him sometimes, chaflin’-like, “Now
what’s your hurry, Dan?
Got some important business or big official
plan?
Been appointed an inspector of the Never-
Never roads?
To report on river-whalin’ an’ the fisher-
men’s abodes?”
He wouldn’t waste replies to such ; his hat
an’ swag he’d don
An’ get off a little, faster with, “Time I
was movin’ on.”
I once says to him, friendly-like, “Now
here’s a chance that’s grand.
The shearin’ will be startin’ soon, they want
an extra hand;
There’s easy work an’ first-rate pay (and
you are hard as nails),
Off-sidin’ cook, or sortin’ dags, or maybe
brandin’ bales.”
He looks at me reproachful-lilte. “I know
ye mean well, John,
But I don’t seem too welcome here. Time
I was movin’ on.”
Last time the poor old battler jus’ struggled
to our place
We saw at once the fast-approaching finish
of his race.
We tells him, “Dan, you’re old an’ sick, jus’
stay a while an’ rest.
“We’ll see to everything you need till you
mus’ give it best.”
He turned his glazing eyes to where the
western sunrays shone,
And a smile jus’ flickered with his words,
“Time I was movin’ on.”
S.A.
BILL O’C.


hf
Taxing Dependents
You may leave a heritage to your dependents but how
much of it will they receive ? Will they be forced to
sell or mortgage part of it to pay the heavy Probate
Tax? Will they be provided for during the long period
of assessment when their property will be securely tied
up with not a penny available for current expenses.
P. & C. Probate Assurance solves all these problems.
Write for full information on this important subject.
Chairman of Director*: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Gen. Man.: H. Fell
PRODUCERS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA
114*120 CASTLE REACH ST. SYDNEY ctS
FRANCE
■s
X '
X-X
tea
£2
The only place in the world that
makes Cognac Brandy is the
Cognac district of France.
M artelVs comes from Cognac only •
Martell’s for Age and Quality.
MARTELLS
BRANDY
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
N. S. WALES WHEAT HARVEST.
“Jim Crow”: N. S. Wales wheat belt nad
a particularly dry year in 1927, and official
estimates show the harvest to be the smallest
since the disastrous one of 1919-20. Average
yield was 9.1 bushels, also the lowest since
1919-20. The southern tableland had more
moisture than. other districts and averaged
19.2 bushels, but on the central plain only
1.2 bushels per acre were harvested. With
a total production of milling wheat of
27,111,000 bushels and a hold-over of wheat
or flour equivalent of 4,570,000 bushels, there
will be an exportable surplus, after meeting
the State’s domestic requirements, of
14,250,000 bushels.
THE SOUTH AUS. HARVEST.
“X.”: Wheat-farming has been even more
of a gamble than usual this year in South
Aus. The winter was cold, 'dry and long-
continued, and some farmers are already
asking the Government to help with seed
and super, for next season. On the other
hand, November rains saved the majority,
and big yields are not uncommon only a
few miles away from the failures.
CULTIVATION OF RAPE.
“Silentio”: February and March are the
best months to plant rape, one of the easiest
and safest crops the farmer can grow, and
yet one generally neglected. It is without
doubt the quickest maturer of all farm crops,
being fit for grazing in six to eight weeks
under ordinary conditions. Pigs and sheep
relish it when it is about J 2 inches in
height. If left to grow to maturity, two
to four cuts can be obtained, as being of
the turnip family it does well until the hot
weather checks growth. Rape is one of the
best feeds for fattening pigs, sheep and
calves, and chaffed with other feeds for dairy
cows is a great milk producer. Poultry-
farmers regard it as the best green crop
for their special needs, as being full of the
necessary vitamines it is so soft and succu-
lent that fowls can eat every bit of stalk
and leaf, and it has the advantage of com-
ing to maturity when there is a dearth of
other green stuff. Drilled in, 31b. to 41b. of
seed per acre is required, and broadcast,
51b. to Sib.
SOME LUCERNE HINTS.
“The Welkin” : Lucerne should be cut
before it flowers if you would have it succu-
lent and in its prime. There is no nutri-
ment in the flowers, which for their forma-
tion draw vital substance from the plant.
It is well to analyse the seed before plant-
ing. This should be full and new; if dry it
will not spring so well. Seed may be tested
by putting a few grains in water, when they
will sink if not dry and are lacking in
quality. Hard toil sets in (or should do)
when the shoots appear; for the land- must
be scrupulously weeded to allow the stuff a
chance. Thus the first year is the hardest.
MENDING A BROKEN LEG.
“Vet”: “Fred Rich’s” recipe for mending a
horse’s broken leg (B. 29/12/’27) arouses my
indig-nation. The principle is fundamentally
wrong. A beast unable to stand should never
be slung, otherwise interference with respira-
tion and neurosis with fatal termination will
assuredly result.
Slings are only of use to support an animal
and enable it to rest in them and ease its
legs at intervals if it chooses. They are
therefore adjusted to almost touch the belly
when the beast is standing normally. To
suspend a horse on two ropes, however well
padded, for several weeks on end would
simply be fiendish cruelty. Leave bone-
setting to a qualified veterinary surgeon or
shoot the nag.
ABOUT WATERING-PLACES.
“N.M.L.”: Stock of all sorts are touchy
about watering-places. It’s an instinct
handed down from the time when predatory
animals used to haunt waters in search of
prey. Cattle more than any other beasts
suffer from this nervousness. I’ve known
bullocks from the Gulf country which
couldn’t be watered at a hole with high
banks. They had to be in a position to
look round and see what was coming, or
they wouldn’t go in. The moral is that if
the stock are to do well they must have
watering-places which suit their tastes.
Sheep, when watering at troughs, like to
line both sides of it. If only one side is
open to them they’re touchy and jumping
all the time. A trough 40 yards long, open
to the sheep on both sides, is infinitely
better than a trough four times the length
with but one side open.
Cattle also like to line both sides of a
trough. For them it’s well to have a buffer
in the shape of a stringer of sound timber
several inches—lOin. is about right—above
the lip of the trough. This prevents crowd-
ing on the trough and protects it. Full-
grown cattle water over the top of the pro-
tector; calves of small sizes poke their heads
through between that stringer and the
trough.
A protector is particularly required with
horses watering at a trough. If things
aren’t altogether to their liking they’ll paw
and stamp and otherwise play the fool.
The trough suffers then. If trough water
only is available it’s advisable to allow a
bit of an overflow to form a puddle about
the ends of April and September. That is
the time when horses are changing their
season’s coats. Then they like to roll in
mud, which mud collects on their coats and
drops off with much loose hair attached to
it. A horse will cast his coat in less time,
and suffer but a fraction of the worry, if
lie has a mud bath at the proper season.
No stock drink well at a fast-running
stream. All stock drink uphill, as it were
—that is, facing upstream—and if the
stream is too fast it makes ripples which
run up the noses of the animals and disturb
them. It pays to throw, a barrier across
to make dead water.
HERD-TESTING FOR THE NOVICE.
“Paul C.”: Notwithstanding that dairy-
men are paid by butter factories according
to the amount of butter-fat contained in the
cream, as well as according to the grade of
cream, only a small percentage have
awakened to the necessity of testing every
individual cow in the herd. Consequently,
many dairymen are milking a number of
practically useless animals. Where herd-
testing associations exist, the dairyman can
have the testing done for him. If there is
no association he can do it himself. At an
expenditure of a few pounds he can purchase
a Badcock centrifugal machine, sulphuric
acid and the milk flasks and pipette that
are necessary to carry out the work. As
the tests would be made with measured
samples, and as the measurement is marked
distinctly on the pipette and on a phial
that is supplied, there is no chance of
making an error if one is reasonably care-
ful.
When the milk is drawn freshly from the
cow it should be poured from one vessel to
another three or four times, so as to mix it
thoroughly. If, however, the milk has been
allowed to get cold it is necessary to slowly
heat it till it reaches a temperature of
105 degrees. Then it should be mixed as
already stated. Allow it to cool for a few
minutes and mix it again, and take the
sample to be tested by drawing it up into
the pipette by suction to the point marked
17.6 c.c. This 17.6 cubic centimetres is
equal to 18 grams in yveight, and this is the
weight needed to be taken when testing
by the Badcock method.
The pipette, with the thumb pressed on
the opening at the top, should be now held
at a slight angle, and the thumb then re-
moved to allow the sample to run into the
milk flask. Now the same quantity of
sulphuric acid (which should have a specific
gravity of 1.82) as milk should be drawn
up into the pipette, and then allowed to run
very gradually into the sample in the flask.
Take hold of the flask by the neck and
rotate it until you see that all the solids
in the milk have been dissolved. The
butter-fat will be seen as a dark liquid on
the surface, and the whole will have de-
veloped considerable heat.
A word of warning to the novice when
dealing with the sulphuric acid: Be very
careful not to take too strong or too sudden
a draw, or the acid may go up into the
mouth with painful results; and do not let
the acid drop on your clothes, or it will
burn holes in them.
The milk flasks (assuming you are testing
four samples at a time) are now put into
the cylinders of the Badcock machine and
the handle turned for five minutes. Take
them out and fill each to the bottom of the
cylindrical neck with water that has been
heated to at least 180 degrees—it may be
hotter but not colder —and again rotate the
flasks in the machine for two minutes.
Now pour more hot water at the same tem-
perature as before to fill the graduated
space in the neck of the flasks. The machine
is again rotated for one minute, when the
job is completed. The butter-fat will have
risen in the neck of tins flask. To read
the test correctly the flasks should be stood
in water at 140 degrees, in order that they
may be read at a uniform temperature, for
if they should be allowed to fall much (say,
20 degrees) below this the fat would
contract and a true reading would not
result. The whole operation takes only 10
minutes at the outside.
VACCINES FOR MAMMITIS.
“Wire”: Despite the tests conducted at
Colac (Vic.), and described by “Digger” (B.
12/l/’2B), the promise of three years’
immunity from mammitis in cases where
vaccine treatment is administered is still
being given, and the inoculation of herds at
6s. per head proceeds apace in the Terang,
Warrnambool and Ivoroit (Vic.) districts.
A leading dairyman held up an auction sale
for 10 minutes the other day, and from the
auctioneer’s stand advised all and sundry to
adopt the treatment. He expressed his com-
plete satisfaction and confidence in it. His
herd had been inoculated exactly two days!
On the other hand, several of the lesser
dairymen, finding mammitis rife as ever
among their herds, are bitterly regretting
that 6s. per head.
SEVEN DAIRY COMMANDMENTS.
“ChifE”: Mrs. D. S. K. Eadie, of Glasgow
Agricultural Society, compiled the following
rules, which ought to be pasted up in every
dairy:
1. Byremen, dairymen and dairywomen
must be healthy.
2. Wash the hands in clean water before
commencing milking and repeat before start-
ing to milk each successive cow.
3. Regularly clip or singe the hair on the
vessel flanks.
4. Keep the cows clean by regular wash-
ing, especially the hindquarters and tail.
5. Cleanse the vessel and teats of each
animal with a damp cloth, rinsing the cloth
clean for each cow.
6. Keep all milking vessels thoroughly
clean and sterilised.
7. Take the milk of each cow directly
from the byre to the milk-house, and there
put it through the strainer before passing
through the refrigerator. The strainer
should have at least three gauges and one
cotton-wool pad.
BANANAS AND PINEAPPLES.
“Cog”: As the pineapple-planting season
is nearly over let me have my final word
on the subject. “Black Heart” (B. 25/l/’2S)
argues that northern N. S. Wales pine-
apples could not compete with the South Q.
grown fruit on account of the latter’s situ-
ation close to canning factories; but he
later on demolishes that argument by refer-
ring to the success of North Q. growers.
The present-day trend is to process the
fruit as near to the plantation as possible.
One of_ the most successful factories is
located in the middle of the Cleveland pine-
apple district, and the fruit goes direct from
the farm to the works. Last year saw a
factory opened in Nambour, and it is opera-
ting successfully. A small canning unit can
be erected very cheaply. It is still an open
question as to whether hand-peeling and
slicing is not more satisfactory than machine
work. Anyhow, if no canning was done in
northern N.S.W., what about the Sydney
concerns? Woombye (Q.) has just signed a
contract to supply a southern concern at a
satisfactory price. Why not northern
N.S.W.?
“Black Heart” and “Cleveland” (B.
l/12/’2B) are afraid of over-supplies. The
former admits that production during the
last few years has gone up by leaps and
bounds, and is now up to its previous highest
level. He forgets that, although each crop
grows bigger, the price gets higher, in
marked contrast to the experience with most
primary products. He supplies portion of
the reason: “The old cut-throat competition
between factories is dead.” I did more than
my share to bring about the marketing of
the canned article, at a fixed price to the
grower, the canner and the public, and that
was the start of pineapple prosperity. But
the factor that will keep up the price of
pines, for years to come, is the fact that the
distributors of late years have not been
able to fill orders.
Only the fringe of the fresh pineapple
market has been touched. In the majority
of country towns in the south a fresh pine-
apple is almost unknown. Let the pineapple-
growers organise to supply these virgin
markets, and they’ll ensure prosperity for
many years to come.
Finally, “Black Heart” gives the price
of pineapple-suckers as £5 per 1000, and
(Continued on page 25.)
states it is not possible to use paper mulch
on old banana plantations on account of
stumps. Well, two of my neighbors have
just planted up areas. They were able to
buy first-class suckers for £2 ss. per 1000.
As to stumps, there are none left on old
scrub plantations—they’ve rotted away long
ago.
CANE-SUGAR FERTILISERS.
“Carisbrook, Jun.”: Some interesting ex-
periments with fertilisers have been made
by the Bananaland Bureau of Sugar Experi-
ment stations, and the results show that
careful mixing of fertilisers is capable of
returning a handsome profit to the cane-
grower. The first experiment, made with a
mixed manure composed of lcwt. sulp.
of ammonia, lcwt. nitrate of soda, lcwt. sulp.
of potash and lcwt. of meatworks fertiliser,
increased the tonnage of cane per acre from
60.54 to 80.75 tons. The cost of the manure
and its application was £3 15s. per acre, and
the net increase in value amounted to £23
per acre. A second experiment was made at
South Johnstone, where a mixture of 1001 b.
sulphate of ammonia, 1501 b. nitrate of soda,
1001 b. sulphate of potash and 2501 b. super-
phosphate yielded 36.08 tons of cane per
acre as against 28.43 tons without manure.
In experiments at Bundaberg, a mixture of
3001 b. sulp. of potash and 2001 b. of sulp.
of ammonia per acre resulted in an increased
yield of 6.79 tons to the acre at the cost of
£2 10s., resulting in an increased value of
£ll Is. 7d. per acre. A single manure of
2651 b. nitrate of soda increased the yield
by 2.71 tons at a cost of £2; 3001 b. of super-
phosphate to the acre increased the yield
by 3.98 tons at a cost of £2 11s. A mixture
of 1001 b. each of sulp. of ammonia, nitrate
of soda and muriate of potash and 3001 b.
of super-phosphate, however, was responsible
for a decrease of 1.90 tons per acre. The
cane and not the land was manured in the
experiments.
THE SUGAR OUTLOOK.
“Massa”: In the years 1918 and 1919
sugar production was decreasing to such an
extent that the Hughes Government raised
the price of raw r figar from £2l per ton to
£3O 6s. Bd. The increased price seemed
reasonable enough, considering that Java
sugar had been purchased for Australia at
£59 per ton. At the new price, a sugar
boom set in up North, and in 1925 the pro-
duction greatly exceeded Australia’s require-
ments. The regulation price had dropped to
£26 per ton, and this rate was available for
less than 60 p.c. of the crop, the remainder
being sold for an export price of less than
£l2 per ton. The average price worked out
at £l9 10s. 7d. per ton.
With the increased cost of production in
recent years it is difficult to understand why
sugar-growers are now so anxious to extend
their operations. This year the outlook is
that the production will just about double
the amount required for home consumption.
The home price will be £26, the export price
£l2 and the average probably not much more
than £lB 10s. per ton. Yet in 1918 and 1919,
when the price was £2l a ton, 25,000 acres
of cane-land went out of cultivation.
In North Queensland, of course, the stimu-
lant is land values. A hundred acres* of good
scrub land is practically valueless. But if
this land can be converted into a cane farm
it is worth from £2O to £3O per acre. On
tjie other hand, the expenses of production
are so great that for a certainty there
is trouble ahead unless the new Empire
Sugar Federation is able to wipe out the
British duties. In that case North Queens-
land could proceed full-tilt, and very soon it
would be the most prosperous part of Aus-
tralia.
MARINE MANURES.
“Tahune”: “The Welkin” (B. 12/l/’2B)
refers to the value of fish as manure. This
fact was appreciated many years ago in Tas.,
where shark-catching was an industry. The
livers were treated for their oil contents and
the carcases sold for orchard manuring. The
old growers swear by it, but it is objection-
able stuff to handle. Rostrevor, the big
I.X.L. orchard on the East Coast, has used
scores of tons of barracouta for the same
purpose. The ash from burnt kelp has a
high value as a fertiliser, and the unburnt
kelp ploughed in has contributed, to my
knowledge, to some phenomenal yields of
potatoes.
The strawberry-growers in Southern Tas.
used a grass-like seaweed which washes up
in masses at certain times as a litter between
rows of plants. It kept grit off the mature
fruit; the saltiness destroyed many grub
pests; moisture was conserved; and when
rotted the stuff was a first-class fertiliser.
Sea sand is a great stimulant for asparagus.
MAORILAND AS AN ORANGE
MARKET.
“Runa”: There seems to be something
wrong when Maoriland, a country that does
not grow oranges in any quantity, has to go
as far afield for supplies as Jaffa in Pales-


H HE Burroughs Portable adding machine has been
accepted all over the world as a very necessary part
of modern equipment—whether it be office, store, or fac-
tory, and in Australasia alone more than 1000 Burroughs
Portable adding machines were sold in 1927.
These little machines are compact, very convenient
simple and efficient. They are obtainable with either four
or six columns of pounds adding capacity and with either
wide or narrow carriage.
Write to-day for free trial. Let one of these little
machines do your figure work for one week at our
expense.
4
□
o
Portable Adding Machine
■SX
<2X
XX
zx
zx
4X
zx
zx
'tsX
ZX
zx
ZX
•&X
2X
zx
ZX
zx
zx
zx
zx
zx
wt
Burroughs
Portables
are priced
as low as
j£32 lOs.
Sor 12 months
terms
SOLE DISTRIBUTORS—
IRA L. & A. C. BERK LTD.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLAGE, SYDNEY
’Phones: FL2671 (five lines).
Sydney
Melbourne
Adelaide
Brisbane
Hobart
Perth
Newcastle
Rockhampton
Auckland
Dunedin
Christchurch
IVellingtori


• • • • • FACTS
Here are eight of the many
facts why Dodge Brothers
Four excels in its class:
1. Swift acceleration—zero to 25
miles per hour, through gears, in
less than 7 seconds.
2. 20 °l o increase in petrol mileage.
3. Forgings, gears and axle shafts
of Chrome, Vanadium and other
costly alloy steel. A five-bear-
ing crankshaft.
4. Steering ease—because of great
leverage exerted by steering gear
and reduced friction resulting
from ball-bearing spindles.
5. Short turning radius, which
means convenience in traffic and
in parking.
6. Wonderful riding comfort—
largely the result of spring-length
totaling 85 °/ 0 of the wheelbase.
7. Beauty of line and color usually
found only in cars costing many
more pounds.
8. Mile-a-minute performance,
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville. •
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
DoDse Brothers
MOTOR CARS
15/2/’2B.


■
‘ 4 ' ' ...... .
:
nfJS*
mm
The boot
for your stirrups!
Soft, pliant, fits the foot like a
glove without straining or cramp-
ing at any point.
Has an upper of tan or black calf
that takes a good polish. Lined,
too, with soft leather there’s no
canvas inside. And so the upper
consists actually of a double thick-
ness of leather.
The insets at ankle are of extra
strong elastic, maintaining a close
fit while allowing the boot to flex
freely with every foot movement.
The supple sole is of the best
leather we can buy.
Order by Post
This Abbey Riding Boot is avail-
able in three fittings, narrow,
medium and wide, for each size.
Specify width needed and order a
supply of the correct Abbey Polish
(6d. per tin) with the boots.
Tan Willow Calf, 42/- per pair
Black Box Calf, 37/6 „ ~
Ask for a copy of the new 40-page
catalogue.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY
L 59.
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
7f
\v
L
sm
■CVCcr
/ /
The Beauty of Childhood
A Clear Healthy Skin
Make and keep your child’s skin
healthy by using Cuticura Soap
every-day assisted by Cuticura
Ointment when required. Nothing
purer or more effective.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: *‘R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W.”
BJIIBT Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
A ROYAL
SMOKE
actual size
The cigar for
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6(1. each
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
I’ost paid to anj
address.
Sampler Box,
containing two
cigars, 1/- post
free.
CRAIG gAITKEN,
6548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors fo-
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
This year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
sojsogvxnrr
hum aims
LINE the Exterior and Interior Walls of
your Home, with Durabestos, the Wunder-
lich asbestos-cement. Available in big, rigid
Sheets —as easy to fix as timber linings,
but cheaper in price, and absolute proof
against fire, vermin,
white ants and dry rot.
Stocked by your local
supplier of building
materials. Ask us to
send you booklet D. 4.
Wunderlich Ltd.
Baptist St. Redfern, Sydney
I I d
m
<
a
tine. Until recently large quantities 0i
Island and Californian oranges have been
imported into the Dominion, but there is a
desire to cut out American trade and seen
Empire sources of supply. Jaffa, being on
mandated territory, comes within the scope
of preferential tariff concessions, and if the
first shipment, which had to undergo tran-
shipment at Sydney, is successful, others
will follows One of the recommendations of
the Palestine orange is its likeness to the
South Australian product. What puzzles
Maorilanders is Australia’s lack of enterprise ■
in letting business so close at hand slip past
her, as no temporary ban should induce her
to forego a trade as near and as easily
handled as the line that is now being de-
flected to Palestine.
FIRST STEPS WITH BEES.
“H.H.”: First catch your bees. If you
find ’em in a bee-tree you will probably have
to fell it to get the bees. You will have to have
a bee smoker, a bee veil, a large milk-can,
two buckets, a strong knife, a damp cloth
to wipe the hands, and some nucleus boxes
each containing a comb. When the axe first
strikes the tree it may be necessary to use
the veil; after a little while the jarring
will cause the bees to cluster compactly
and they will give no further trouble. As
soon as the tree falls, blow a little smoke
in at the knot-hole entrance, preparatory
to splitting off a slab to expose the combs.
Cut them from their attachments, brush
off any adhering bees with a bunch of grass,
and place the dark brood-combs in one
bucket, reserving the other for the honey-
comb. When this latter is full it should be
emptied into the milk-can. Keep a sharp
look out for the queen, and if fortunate
enough to find her, there will be no diffi-
culty in hiving the bees by shaking her,
together with a number of the bees, into the
nucleus; the remainder of the bees will follow
or should be driven in with smoke. If any
comb containing brood is left in the tree,
the bees will not quit. When they are all
in, close the entrance, and they are ready
for removal. Bee-trees are best taken in
autumn, because the maximum amount of
honey is then available, and the bees have
little or no brood.
After the combs of honey are received
into the honey-house, and before they are
placed in the extractor, : it is essential that
the cappings be removed. There is a special
uncapping knife sold for the purpose, or a
long-bladed, sharp butcher’s knife may be
used. Keep the knife in a pan of hot water
and it will slice the cappings without crush-
ing the cells. The extractor is a reel work-
ing on a pivot in the bottom of a round tank,
and is attached at the top to a pair of
bevelled cog-wheels set up on a strong cross-
arm. These gear-wheels are operated by a
handle. Two wire-cloth ' baskets are hung
on the reel at the top and bottom; the
uncapped frames of comb are placed in the
baskets and the handle turned, the honey
being thrown against the side of the tank
by centrifugal force. When one side is ex-
tracted the frames have to be reversed to
extract the other side. The honey is left
for two or three days, after which the scum
is skimmed off. This scum is made up of
small particles of wax, pollen and air
bubbles that have been forced through the
honey during extraction. The honey can
now be bottled, or run into 601 b. tins ready
for use.
The household copper may be used to
refine wax for commercial use. Pour in
several gallons of water, and add a table-
spoonful of acid to each gallon (sulphuric
acid is best). Put in all the cappings after
the honey has been strained off, together with
any comb to be melted, and heat up, boiling
it gently for an hour. The wax should then
be dipped out into petrol-tins with two thick-
nesses of mosquito netting tied on the top.
Stop dipping when any sediment shows, and
allow it to set; when “caked” into a block,
it should be lifted out and the bottom scraped
to remove the dirt. These cakes can be sold
for cash or exchanged for foundations at
any bee-supply stores, or they can be re-
melted, refined and bleached, bringing a some-
what highqr price, but to do this satisfac-
torily, wooden vessels and hot steam instead
of water would be necessary.
BAD HABITS OF BLOWFLIES.
“John W.”: The depositing of maggots
on sheep by blowflies is an acquired habit.
Near Roma 30 years ago' they would blow
blankets, but did not touch the sheep. The
Gulf blowfly, being only used to cattle, has
not yet learnt to strike sheep. Outside
Normanton last year any dead beast or
sheep was green with them, and I have
known a packhorse blown along the edge
of the packsaddle, a man’s woollen singlet
blown as he walked along the road, and
anything that was damp.. But although I
had sheep with 15 months’ wool on they
were never touched. When the wool was
shorn off and left in a heap on the ground
for a few days it was full of maggots.
DON’T TIE THE FLEECE.
•“John W.”: “B-Gar’s” advice to amateur
wool-rollers to tie the fleece with a piece of
wool (B. 22/12/’27) is out of date. Fleeces
aren’t tied at all nowadays. Tying was based
on the notion that buyers, take each fleece
out of the bale and examine it carefully.
They don’t. See that the fleece is carefully
skirted and that the wool in each lot is as
near as possible of one type and quality,
and let it go at that.
WHO WANTS FINE WOOL?
John W.” : Does the British wool-buyer
really want fine wool? In 1925 the Bris-
bane firm that handles my wool told me my
clip was of 70’s quality, was of good length
and had plenty of character; as pretty a
clip as ever passed through their hands.
L)id the buyers rush it? If they did thG
prices must have got well trodden down in
the rush. A clip grown on similar country
and about 64 s brought a much higher price
Breeders are not troubling about the fine-
coarse wool controversy. Only a congenital
idiot would alter the breeding of hi? flock
because some Johnny on the other side of
tbe world says he should. 6
WOOL COUNTS.
“B-Gar”: Many wool-growers, when they
hear “60’s” and “80’s” mentioned, are ignorant
of the meaning of the terms. The “count”
indicates the spinning quality of the wool,
and by “60’s” is meant that the wool of that
quality will make 60 hanks of spun yarn,
each 560 yards long, to the lb.; by “40’s,” 40
hanks, and so on. The finer the wool the
higher the spinning quality, therefore cross-
breds ranging from 40's to 50’s cannot be
expected to spin the length of the finer
60’s-80’s. For classing methods the following
table will help the amateur. Lincoln and
other coarse wools range 32-38’s; coarse
crossbred, 40-46’s; medium crossbred,
48-52’s; fine crossbred and comeback, 54-
sS’s; merino 60’s-80’s, and in some cases
higher. It takes years of experience in the
textile industry to identify exactly the differ-
ent counts, but even an amateur classer,
after a little experience, can learn to classify
fleeces sufficiently well to sort up a clip for
market.
DOUBLE LAMBING.
“F.Y.7”: Graziers in Central and N.-W.
Q., hard hit by their losses in the
recent drought, are going to attempt a
quick replenishment by recourse to double
lambing. The practice, once common
enough among men who gave thought to
speedy flock increase and little else, has
long been considered inadvisable, but it
seems about the only available remedy for
the understocked condition of the country.
The good seasons in N.S.W. have raised the
prices of breeding ewes there, and a return
to the old method of a rush increase seems
the best way out of a tight corner, at any
rate among those breeders who have
managed to keep some of their breeding ewes
alive. The method usually followed in the
past is to put not less than 5 per cent, of
the rams with the ewes for five weeks,
beginning either in March or October. When
the ewes commence lambing the rams are
again introduced for the second lambing,
and are not taken out till the marking of
the first drop starts. With a good season
up to 150 per cent, should be marked for
the season, but the experiment should not
be repeated in the lifetime of the same
sheep, as far as the merino ewe, at least,
is concerned.
MOULTING AND BREEDING.
“Jack Point” : The moulting season affords
the poultry-farmer his best opportunity for
picking out the hens from which to breed in
the coming season. When a bird moults
early under favorable conditions, it is merely
a sign that she lacks the necessary stamina
to carry on, consequently she should not be
used as a breeder. The late moulters will
generally be found to carry their feathers for
a much longer period, and then to come
through the moult very quickly, sometimes
being off the lay only a few weeks. _ These
are the birds to use in the breeding-pen,
other things being equal. It is a good plan
to mark these late moulters with a dis-
tinguishing colored ring until they are wanted
for breeding.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“N.M.L.”: The chief cause of windmill
trouble is tight buckets. Within reason, a
loose bucket will pump as much all the time
as a tight "one. Don’t use leather buckets;
they are unreliable. Composition buckets are
about the same price; they are impervious to
the action of almost all water, and they are
not affected by heat or cold. They lift just
as much water without straining the mill.
“Paul C.”: Now is the time to eradicate
patches of couch grass. This can be done
with a spray made by dissolving 21b. of
arsenate of soda (costing about Is.) in 8
gallons of water. First rake or run a harrow
over the couch grass so as to expose the
stems as much as possible, and then go over
it sprinkling evenly with a watering-can.
After sundown is the best time, because, it
gives the poison a better chance of soaking
in during the night. No stock should be
allowed on treated areas for a month after
treatment.
“Silentio”: A handy trough for feeding
poultry is made from an old piece of roof-
guttering, preferably of the half-round style.
Fix the ends to two pieces of board so as
to raise it about two inches from the ground,
and hold it steady, with chocks under the
piping at intervals, and you have a trough
that the birds can feed from on both sides
and which is easily moved and kept clean.
“Cockyson” : A remedy for blood scour in
young calves, if given in time, is common
table-salt, administered with the morning
drink, which should be unskimmed milk
fresh from the cow. It must be given at the
first sign of scour and continued regularly
till the disorder has completely disappeared
A pinch of salt in the drink occasionally is
helpful against development of the scour,
which arises from digestive trouble caused
mainly by unsuitable feeding.
“Paul C,”: The best method of combating
the cutworm, one of the worst pests of the
vegetable garden, is to mix while dry 121 b.
of bran and -|lb. of paris green (or |lb. of
white arsenic), and then make it into a
crumbly mass with water —it will take about
2 quarts —in which mix lib. of treacle. Lay
this bait along the rows of vegetables, and
the cutworms will march to their doom.
“L.L.” : To cure sore shoulders on horses,
draw some oil from the sump of a motor-car
and add an eggcupful of iodine. Cleanse the
sore and apply the mixture with a feather.
In some cases this will heal the sore while
the horse is working.
“L.L.”: Before oiling harness or other
leather add a little kerosene to the oil. This
will prevent rats and other vermin attacking
the leather.
“B-Gar”: When waterglass and other egg-
preserving mixtures are not obtainable try
this: Dip the eggs in melted fat and pack in
fine salt. Turn the box in which the eggs
are packed every day, and they will keep as
fresh as in waterglass. A small barrel, laid
on its side, makes a good container, and a
slight roll every day is all that is required.
“Nota Bene” : A good remedy for ringworm
is to wash the part affected with a little
iemon-juice, then rub in with the- finger a
little powdered indigo. Do this gently about
twice a day.


The best cigarettes
for years
at
20/0,r6
STQTE (XPI^ESS
333
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
SMOKE-OH!
ASSORTED EPITAPHS.
Here lies the body of Angus McFidden,
Born first of June, eighteen fifty-sax;
He’d a wee bit note frae a chiel named
Whiddon—
The first Angus heard aboot income-tax.
Patrick O’Houlilian slumbers here;
Fond of a fight was lie—oh very!
A Belfast man went and spilt his beer,
And there wasn’t enough of him left to
bury.
Hie jacct Isaac Emanuel Moss,
A sad case, far beyond human aid.
His shop would have been a total loss
If it hadn’t been for the fire brigade.
n.s.w. Hyram.
* *
Economy is anything a woman wants to
buy.
* *
Marry your son when you will, your daugh-
ter when you can.
S|C
Girls will be girls—and so will grand-
mothers.
* *
A newspaper reports that many well-
known Melbourne ladies are taking to bowls.
We expect that kitty will now become percy.
* *
If leather gets much dearer only the very
rich will be able to pay their butchers’ bills.
* *
She danced with abandon
Wild and rare,
Because she had nothing
Else to wear.
si: *
Now that Boy Charlton has decided to go
Australia should be well in the swim at the
Olympic Games.
THAT’LL TEACH HER!
“Sandy, I’ve just had my hair shingled. How do you
like it?”
“Lassie, y’ve had an awju’ hit o’ bad luck. Ah’ve just
bought ye a packet o’ hairpins fur your bairth-
day.”
A woman’s voice has soft appeals
To male hearts, warm and young;
But wedlock all the glamor steals—
The voice becomes a tongue.
The only way the music stays
Is —here’s the wrong of it—
Whatever fault is in our ways
Bhe makes a song of it.
n.s.w. Percy Pawnticket.
* *
Mac stood outside the hotel looking rather
pale and apparently deep in thought.
“Hello, Mac,” said *his cheerful friend,
coming up. “You look pretty sick, old man.
What are you thinking about?”
“Yes, I’m sick a’ richt,” Mac said.
“In fact I’m so unweel that I’m just trying
to decide whether I ought to go to a public
hospeetal or borrow a bottle of whusky.”
Sydney Guardian announces that it
insures its readers free. Well, that seems
only fair.
According to a newspaper the outfit of a
visiting tennis player includes a beautiful
white crepe-de-Chine shirt, with sleeves to
the elbows. These male tennis players are
becoming less ladylike every day.
sS *
According to counsel in an assault case
in Melbourne, riding in ’buses was a disease
with the young woman in the case. We
presume he diagnosed her condition by
feeling her bumps.
’Bus CoriHuctor (shaking sleeping passen-
ger) : “Hey, where do you want to get out?”
Passenger (thickly) : “Terrific, hie, sleep.”
Conductor (loudly to driver) : “Stop at
Pacific-street.”
* *
“In St. Cuthbert’s Church, Darwen
(Eng.),” says a cable, “further riotous dis-
turbances bccurred on Sunday, personal con-
flicts taking place during the service.” It
is understood that a movement has been
launched to have the name of the church
changed to St. Queensbury’s.
TO XXX, ON GOING TO THE BARS.
She vowed that he alone could touch
Her heart, who drink forswore;
I could not love thee, beer, so much
Loved I the lady more.
victokia. Colonel I. Lovebeer.
* *
Because it believes that thus a nation of
great fliers may be built up, the Italian
Air Ministry urges every girl to dream
she has been chosen by an aviator: —
When amorous dreams of airmen fill
The heart beneath each maiden’s nightie,
There’s little doubt that Italy will
Awake to find her flappers flighty.
A civil engineer was charged in Melbourne
,vith brandishing a bayonet in the face of
a constable. Of course. The other sort
would have stuck it in him.
* *
According to the Sydney Guardian, Prin-
cess Elizabeth, daughter of the Duke and
Duchess of York, has a double in Darling-
liurst who is passionately
fond of raw onions. It is
pleasing to know that we in
these far-flung parts of the
Empire have such strong
associations with Royalty.
* s;=
A cable announces that
members of the Atlantic
City boot retailers’ conven-
tions are agreed that poorly
or unfasliionably shod men
cannot possibly attract
women. But it’s really an
ancient superstition that old
boots are lucky.
“A recent Smoke-oli par.,”
writes a correspondent, “said
that if many a man put the
cat out he would spend the
night alone. Similarly, I
suppose that’s why the
women in some countries do
not put out the pig.” (N. 8.:
The prize of 7s. 6d. for guess-
wliether this correspondent
is a man or woman has
already been awarded.)
When Dad Dawkins died
his widow thought he should
go to his Maker with his
whiskers shaved off. The
barber was not enthusiastic,’
but he went along and tried
to put the widow off by sug-
gesting a pretty stiff fee.
“Goodness me ! It’s profit-
eering on the sorrows of a
widow you are, Mr. Blade,” she moaned.
Then, reluctantly: “All right, but it seems
■a terrible waste of money. It’s not as if he
was going anywhere in particular.”
❖ H;
Sydney Herald headings: “Queensland
hore. Evidences of gas.” We also have met
some of that State’s politicians.
THIS WEEK’S QUERIES.
Who invented the bagpipes, and was he
murdered or executed?
What great Australian singer took the
“fare” out of “farewell”?
How often has Harry Lauder tipped a
waiter with a ten-pound note?
How many square miles of canvas would
be necessary to hold a true self-portrait of
an artist?
Who is Ponsford?
❖
A correspondent wants to know on what
grounds can a civil servant claim workers’ ,
compensation.
A cable states that the first aerial Ford
has made a successful flight. We expect it
will not be long now before the country cor-
respondents of the newspapers are writing of
hailstones as big as Ford engines.
* *
This year, it is estimated, more than
45,000 goats will be born in Queensland.
Estate-agents there should do record busi-
ness.
'*• * *
The Pan-American Conference has upheld
the principle that oppressed people have the
right to revolt. Loud “Hear-liears” from
Mexico.
5|C
“I don’t know what the stage is coming
to,” said a Melbourne matron. “My daughter
COULDN’T KEEP IN STEP.
“Why did you leave your last position?”
“Oh, I was too slow—you see I had a very
fast boss.”
wanted to go to the King’s and I asked her
what the play was. She said it was ‘A
Cuckold in the Nest’!”
❖ ❖
“Modern man,” says a Sydney Guardian
headline, “is like a sponge.” We would go
further and say that many of them actually
are sponges.
* *
It is quite true that the best laid plans
of mice and men go astray. It is equally
true that the trouble with both can usually
be put down to cats.
* *
Ere they were married, if he went
Away, oh! how she missed her lover.
She doesn’t miss him now, of course,
Except when he gets under cover.
* *
Where there’s a pill there’s a pay—as the
doctors have it.
* *
An old man who appeared before a Sydney
Court recently admitted having used bad
language 23 years ago. That seems an in-
credibly long time for anyone to go without
being hit by a motor-car or hearing a saxo-
phone.
* *
“The defence of an island lies on the sea,
and while Australia can find sailors to
man her ships she will preserve her free-
dom,” says the Sydney News. It certainly
does seem a pity to see our thousands and
thousands of warships floating about useless
for the want of a few men.
❖ *
At the Goulburn (N.S.W.) police-court a
man was recently convicted of drunkenness
for the 112th time. We know many who’d
give a lot for half his imagination.
* *
Recent violent windstorms in America
injured a great many persons. That seems
to be carrying the Presidential campaign
a bit too far.
* *
“People are killed in motor accidents every
week-end,” said a magistrate the other day.
He apparently reads only the Sunday news-
papers.
* *
“Ease year,” says the S. M. Herald, “the
Sydney Harbor Trust constructed 1600 feet
of new wharves, bringing the total owned by
it to 57,000 feet.” It seems strange that the
Herald should omit to state the amount of
additional bedding provided.
* *
These crystal-gazers have pretty uncanny
powers. An inquisitive spinster who was told
she was to marry a man occupying a very
high position was recently spliced to the
local fire-brigade’s look-out man.
“Slasher” : Teaching division to junior boys
in one of Melbourne’s industrial suburbs,
I led through “the known to the unknown.”
Dividing by two into an even number was
so simple that they felt there was nothin;;
new in division ; but when “two into five”
arrived there was a solid silence until one
kid put the case for the class. “Gee, Miss,”
he said, “you’ve got us stonkered.” Young
Australia is as friendly in school as he is
outside.
* *
The world is divided into two classes —
those who are well-read and those who are
—well, Red.
* *
“Let me make myself plain,” began Mrs.
Nagger, severely, to her late-homing hus-
band. “My dear, you don’t need to,” he
said, anxious to avoid the trouble. But it
was from then that the real row started.
*
At any rate, the gibe “Clothes make the
man” cannot be levelled against the flapper.
* *
According to a fashion-writer, every part
of a woman’s wardrobe is now appearing as
it was years ago. Well, it is refreshing to
know there are some who still believe that
old story about Eve.
THE LEADING LADY.
Billy Thompson put down his month-old
paper and snorted. “What do yer think of
this ’ere tabby in Blighty,
Sarge? Says she served with
the Aussies for munee and
never ’ad ’er sect discovered.”
Old Sergeant Lambsfry, who
was sewing a patch on the seat
of his blueys, spat meditatively
into the fire.
“The first time we went into
Pozieres,” he remarked, “our
O.C. was a red-’eaded coot
called ’lggins. ’ls batman was
Skinny Jackson, a little pale-
faced cockney, and ’is cobber
was Darky Jones, the company
runner. ’lggins ’ad saved
Darky’s life at Anzac, and ’im
and Skinny was like ’lggins’s
shadow.
“Cripes, I’ll never forget that stunt. It
wasn’t the figlitin’, but afterwards —sittin’
there in the trenches and bein’ shelled to
blazes hour after hour. And then one comes
in and stonkers ’lggins and the Company
Sergeant-Major. '
“ ‘They’ve got the 0.C.,’ someone yells.
‘ ‘What’s that ?’ says Darky, startin’ up
from a bit of a snooze; and when ’e com-
prezes, ’e goes fair orf ’is rocker.
“‘The——! The crimson !’ ’e yells;
and grabbin’ ’is rifle ’e ’ops out of the trench
and starts runnin’ .towards the Bosche, firin’
as he ran. Mr. Brown calls out to ’im to come
back, but Darky runs on, blazin’ at any
thing that showed, and cursin’ like the
Devil. When ’e was about half-way acrost
a machine-gun puts a burst into ’im and ’e
crumples up. Then Skinny gives a yell
like a woman with ’isterricks, and ’oppin’
the bags, without ’is tin ’at or nothin’, ’e
runs like a redshank to where Darky was
AN OBVIOUS DIFFERENCE.
“And so you’ve been enjoying yourself at
the seaside for a whole month?”
“Well, not exactly. The family were here
for a fortnight, you know.”
lyin’, and got ’im on ’is shoulder some’ow,
and staggers back, gaspin' for breath, and
cryin’ like a kid.
“They gave Skinny the Milit’ry Medal,
and when we got brack to rest billets ’e
snared a job as ‘leadin’ lady’ with the Divvy
Concert Party. Struth 1 but ’e made a bonzer
tabby! Sang like a bird, and danced like a
blinkin’ fairy.
“After the Armistice blowed if she didn’t
’ave the flamin’ nerve to put in for ’er
widow’s pension. Too true, she was Darky’s
missus all right, but ’ow the ’ell she got
into the flamin’ draft, Graved knows.”
W. J. DIGGER.


m-
■ : : : : : ,N’i 1 S: : i :
siisaa
uaii
HARDY’S
WINES
op
TINTARA
i
llii 111
■mm
Wkmzm,
jr "‘^•asassasS
m§mm
s&y/.KvkCvJ &s£§?
“»
i ,,,,,,,, T _ : .:;;;^s
‘.'■i&VT-).t^Sfi^iVv'
Ipispi
::/.;®w;'.v.’4'.v.v.'
Lr-
-B§s
5§S
iVJKAVK
!W¥
\v\ T
■o» <*: . ’
yjMS]
9MriMpfe*
= if
*s^ v
ft «4 4 4 <£ 4ft 4. 4 Sj tj &
r !wXv?vX*!v
isfisi
iV/*V,v
I • »
H ARDY’S TINTARA WINES (Gold Label) are 70 years of age, of fine bouquet and maturity. Extracted from the
rich grapes of the chosen lands of South Australia, there is no better wine in the world’s markets. When you call for
Hardy’s Champion Reserve Port you are sure of age, maturity, quality, and the price is within the reach of all and not more
than \that of other wines.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
Tile right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
The Service Department has come to the conclusion that it ought to be giving
more help to wireless users and would-be users. To this end it has added to its
great chain of professional helpers two radio experts, whose opinions and knowledge
will be available to readers who forward inquiries.
Wants.
Returned soldier wants steady job on
South Q’land station, dry area preferred.
iJsed to windmills and cars. Can do carpen-
tering, painting and fencing. Own car, sober,
good worker, no horseman, go anywhere.—
3305.
Youth (IS) wants position as jackeroo on
station, anywhere. Can ride. —33G3.
Ex-service man (31), single, temperate,
good refs., 4£ yeai’s’ tropical trading exp.,
book-keeper, typist, desires position in New
Guinea or Islands with plantation or trad-
ing company, any capacity.—3361.
Two respectable young men seek position
on small cattle-station, N.S.W. or Q., can
ride, but no other experience.—3335.
Youth (17) wants job in large garage or
motor workshop; has had 18 months’ experi-
ence ; will pay premium.—3332.
Man (39) wants position as storekeeper
or other capacity on plantation in New
Guinea or Islands. Sober and adaptable.—
3355.
Married returned soldier, aged 30,
thorough knowledge of accountancy, com-
mercial law, etc., seeks position, anywhere,
in any capacity.—3354.
Returned soldier (39), married, 3 child-
ren, farming experience, well educated, pre-
sent position land inspector, would like to
hear of locality offering scope for establish-
ment of general agency; would consider
partnership with established firm with good
prospects needing experienced man with
little capital.—-3424.
Accountancy student (22), passed inter-
mediate exam., wants job as clerk in a public
accountant’s office. Go anywhere. Nominal
wages. (Direct to K. B. Cameron, Beechmont,
via Nerang, Q.)
Jackeroo, 18, wants job, wheat and sheep;
12 months’ experience, good refs.—3404.
Whereabouts of Ellen Malden, late of
Gospel Oak, London. Brother inquiring.
(Direct to Edward Mallen, Radio Operator,
S.S. Reaper, Texas Corp., 17 Battery Place,
New York, U.S.A.)
Whereabouts of Amy Gould, last heard of
at Hotel Murgon, Murgon (Q.). (Direct to
Mrs. Alice Smith, Brunswick Heads, N.S.W.)
Wanted a man conversant with poultry
farming on shares to consider good oppor-
tunity 40 miles from Melbourne. —3390.
Engineer, 33, wants opening in marine
motor repair business or commercial venture.
Experience in Scotland, Australia and the
Islands.—3396.
To exchange Kodak special, 2Jin. x 3jin.,
perf. con., Velosto shutter, Cooke f6.5 lens,
for !-plate reflex, having f4.5 lens. Cash
adjustment if necessary.—3421.
To sell “How to Build Mental Power,” bv
Kleiser, 595pp., 7s. 6d. (Direct to E. Green-
wood, 11 Brougihton-street, Canterbury, Syd-
ney.)
To sell 4-plate Raleigh reflex ;Cooke Avihr,
f4.5 lens, 6 d.d. slides, film-pack adapter, etc.
Leather case, £15. —3422.
To sell Casanova Memoirs, 12 vols., limited
edition (as new), £12 12s. Inspect at 81
Kent-street, Sydney.—3423.
Words of the following songs: “The Mill
Wheel,” “The Fisherman and His Child,”
“The Wolf,” “Before the Battle,” “The Two
Beggars,” “The Song of Triumph.” (Direct
to Mrs. J. Flynn, Boto, Port Macquarie,
N.S.W.)
For sale 1280 acres, Glen Inncs (N.S.W.),
convertible; £40 will make 320 acres and
homestead freehold, well watered, fenced and
grassed. Extra good grazing and mixed farm.
Price £2500, small deposit, or would lease.
—3415.
To sell six-roomed house, all conv., Sunny-
bank, Brisbane, main road, close to station ;
7i acras sandy soil, 5 acres leased to Chinese
market-gardener, £1100. —3405.
To exchange S. Aus. and Commonwealth
stamps with stamps from anywhere. (Direct
to Renown Stamp Exchange, 168 Melbourne-
street, N. Adelaide, S.A.)
To buy Leonard split cane fishing rod,
about Oft. Gin. (Direct to A. J. Reilly, 110
Ryrie-street, Geelong.)
To purchase copy of monthly magazine
Life (Melbourne) for April, 1926. Will pay
5s. and postage. (Direct to L. Luxton, 184
Victoria-road, Upper Hawthorn, Vic.)
To sell unexpurgated edition Burton’s
“Anatomy of Melancholy,” 1843 edition.—
3343.
To hire portable gramophone for one
month, “H.M.V.” preferred. 8s. (Direct to
Miss Greville, P.O., Neutral Bay, Sydney.)
To let house, 7 rooms, 2 bathrooms with
gas-lieaters, gas and fuel stoves, fly-proof
doors and windows, garage and septic-tank,
3 acres garden and bushland, 12 miles from
Sydney.—3345.
Copy of the Lone Hand for February,
1908, containing article entitled “Disappoint-
ment Island,” —3344.
To buy oak extension table, 15 years’
old or more, state size, shape. Also old
plates or ornaments for plate-rack. (Direct
to 10 Claremont-road, Enfield, Sydney.)
To sell home site, 30ft. x 126ft., sea
frontage, near ’bus and tram, Narrabeen,
Sydney ; £250 cash.—3353.
To buy Lt.-Col. Murray’s compilation of
official records of the Australian contingents
in the S’African. War. Published 1911 or
1912. State price.—3340.
To sell upright grand walnut Foster piano,
condition guaranteed.—3325.
To sell cheap, 40ft. x 165 ft. .block land in
Boulevarde, Toronto, N.S.W. —3324.
To buy small quantity second-hand tram
rails, 201 b. per yard or thereabouts. State
price on boat or rail. —3329.
To exchange pretty stone cottage at Med-
low Bath, value £6OO, large garden, water
and e. 1., all conveniences, for cottage similar
value within 20 miles of Sydney. (Reply
direct P.P. Box L 2.133, G.P.0., Sydney.)
To buy collapsible canoe to carry two and
which could be packed in a touring-car, or
information as to where such can be ob-
tained. —3313.
To buy, new or second-hand, Hull’s
“Stamps of N.S.W.” and “Stamps of Tas-
mania.” (Direct to H. Turner, c/o Box 11,
P. 0., Euroa, Vic.)
To buy Muskett’s “Illustrated Medical
Guide.” (Direct to Mrs. E. Bartlett, Eurra-
malong, Dubbo.)
Information Sought.
(1) When a pilot is aboard a vessel does
he assume control as far as navigation is
concerned? (2) Can the captain, if he
thinks it necessary, interfere with the pilot
in any circumstances? (3) If so, in what
circumstances? (4) Could the pilot tell the
captain to go to Hongkong if he tried to
interfere? (5) Who is liable in case of an
accident in ivhich damage is done? —3370.
(1) Yes, in cases of compulsory pilotage.
(2) Yes. (3) Breach of the Regulations,
incapability owing to insobriety and taking
any action which in the captain’s opinion
might endanger the safety of the ship. (4)
He could, but it might not be politic for him
to do so. The pilot does not supersede the
master in the control and management of his
vessel. (5) English law fixes the liability
on the owner or master of a vessel, even if
under compulsory pilotage.
(1) What is the market price of mica?
(2) Is there a buyer in Queensland? —3270.
(1) If the mica is of the right quality and
free of cracks and stains, sheets as small as
3in. by 2in. are marketable. The price
(according to quality) will be from Is. 6d.
per lb. upwards. For sheets 6in. by 4in. of
approved quality as high as 255. per lb.
may be paid. A fair average price for
average sheets of good quality is 12s. per
lb. (2) Don’t know of any Q. dealer. Send
a sample to Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-
street, Sydney, who will advise.
(1) Where a motor-car is bought by pay-
ing a deposit and signing p.n’s. for balance,
if there is a failure to pay one or more p.n.’s
due, can the vendor of the car take posses-
sion? (2) If so, is any legal procedure
necessary? (3) Can the vendor sue for
more than the amount involved in the p.n.’s
due and unpaid? —32B3.
(1) It is assumed you have signed a
hire-purchase agreement. Such agreements
usually give the vendor the right to repossess
himself of the car should the stipulated pay-
ments not be made. (2) and (3) He can
sue then only on the p.n.’s which tare
unpaid. Should he not exercise the right of
repossession he is entitled to sue on the p.n.’s
as they become due. Read carefully the
agreement you have signed.
Can you tell me at what time brass was
first made. I believe the “sounding brass
and tinkling cymbals” of the Bible to have
been bronze, and would like to know when
and where present-day brass was first made?
—3349.
According to the “Encyclopaedia Britan-
mca,” the brass of the Bible was probably
bronze. Brass is an alloy consisting mainly
if not exclusively of copper and zinc; in
its older use the term was applied rather to
alloys of copper and tin. now known as
bronze, and continued until the distinction
between zinc and tin became clearly recog-
nised. The manufacture of brass with zinc
dates back in England to the sixteenth cen-
tury.
(1) I found a sum of money on a chair in
a bank, and placed it in the care of a teller
pending its being claimed by owner. To
whom does it belong if not claimed? (2)
How _ long has the finder to wait before
claiming the money ? —3316.
The .Common Law principle is that a
finder’s title is good against all but the true
owner. If at any time the true owner estab-
hshes his title the finder must give up
possession of the property found, but in the
meantime the finder has the sole right to
bold the money.
How can I ripen bananas for sale? 3171.
Bananas are stored in specially-construc-
ted rooms in which even temperature of 66
to 68 degrees E. and a relative humidity
of approximately 84 p.c. are maintained until
the fruit has commenced to color, when the
relative humidity is reduced to 70 p.c. or
p.c. Up to 10 days are required to ripen
the Cavendish variety. Eligher temperatures
will quicken ripening but will affect the
quality of the fruit.
(1) Has copper ever been hardened for
commercial use? (2) Are any of the pro-
cesses used to try and temper copper known
or kept secret? (3) What would be the pro-
bable commercial value of a process for
hardening and tempering copper? —33o2
(1) As far as can be ascertained there
is no known method of hardening copper for
commercial use. Copper has the property of
becoming harder and more brittle when hav-
ing undergone rolling or hammering, but
for commercial use, it usually has to be
annealed. (2) Many alloys of copper with
tm, zinc, aluminium, etc., have the pro-
perty of being harder, less malleable and
less liable to corrosion than copper itself.
(3) It would be difficult to assess the pro-
bable commercial value of a process for
hardening and tempering copper, as so much
would depend upon the cost of the process
and the value of the resultant product,
together with its suitability as compared
with alloys now in use.
How can I keep fleas off my silky terrier?
—3190.
Keep his kennel clean and wash him occa-
sionally with disinfectant. For his ordinary
bath use Lux or other good soap, adding
a tablespoonful of kerosene to two quarts
of soapy water. Dry him thoroughly and
keep him away from other animals.
(1) Would you advise an intelligent lad
of 16, likely to have at the end of his
training period £SOO of capital, to seek Train-
ing at Ilawkcsbury Agricultural College?
(2) What would it cost per year for his
education and maintenance for the full
course? (3) What is length of the course?
(4) What vacations would he have? (5)
Could he find employment during vacations?
—3234.
(1) If lie is keen to go on the land he
would find the training a decided advantage.
(2) Approximately £4O per annum or £l2O
for the whole course. (3) Three years. (4)
Six weeks, twice a year. (5) Yes.
What are the methods (1) of securing
bees from a bee-tree? (2) Extracting and
clarifying the honey from the wax? (3)
Refining the wax for commercial use? (4)
From whom can I obtain hives and material?
—2916.
(1), (2) and (3) Watch “Man on the
Land” page. (4) Pender Bros., W. Mait-
land, N.S.W.; 11. L. Jones, Goodna, Q.
What is a reliable dip to cure vermin in
fowls? —3243.
No dip is necessary. If body lice are
present, i.e., the fairly large yellowish lice
which move rapidly when the feathers are
parted, all that is necessary is to dust
thoroughly all over the body of the birds
with flowers of sulphur and repeat in a
week. If red mites, which live in crevices
in fowl-houses, etc., are numerous, the
perches should be painted with creosote and
the houses sprayed all over with kerosene
emulsion several times at intervals of a
day or two. A formula for kerosene emul-
sion was printed in the Service Page (B.
5/l/’2S).
What course of training is necessary to
become (1) a civil aviator and (2) an aviator
in the R.A.F.? (3) Arc positions assured
after passing exams., and what is the age-
limit ? —3333.
(1) Course at Australian Aero Club (Vic-
torian section), Aerodrome, Bulla-road,
Essendon, Vic. Cost about £25. No posi-
tion assured. (2) Course at No. 1 Flying
Training School, Point Cooke, Vic. Apply
Sec., Air Board, Victoria Barracks, Mel-
bourne, for application form and pamphlet
containing particulars. If it is desired to
join the R.A.A.F. (Permanent Forces) the
course takes about seven months. (3)
Successful candidates are granted short-
service commissions for four years with a
possibility of the commission being made per-
manent. The age-limit is from 18 to 25.
The Citizen Air Force course takes about
two months. Successful candidates are given
commissions in the Citizen Air Force, in
which they do 25 days’ training per annum
as laid down in the Defence Act.
A husband and wife lived apart for 30
years. The husband died leaving all his
possessions to charity. What claim has the
wife under Tasmanian 1aw? —3336.
The Testators Family Maintenance Act
(1912) of Tasmania provides that if a
testator disposes of his property by will in
such a manner that upon his death his
widow is left without sufficient means for
her maintenance and support, the Court or a
Judge may, upon application by or on behalf
of the widow, make suitable provision for
her maintenance out of the estate. A soli-
citor could act on the widow’s behalf.
Where can I get a book about cool drinks
and ices, cocktails, and the folding of ser-
viettes? —3352.
The making of summer drinks and ices
and the folding of serviettes are described in
“Colonial Everyday Cookery” (Whitcombe
and Tombs, Ltd., M.L., or any bookseller).
For cocktails, consult Roberts’s “Cocktails”
(Angus and Robertson, Sydney), 3s. 6d.
Have comparative tests ever been made to
ascertain whether it is advisable to drink
with meals? I heard of an experiment made
by a Uni. professor who put some students
oti dry feeding and others on wet feeding.
Those who drank with their meals gained
more weight than those on dry feeding. —
3191.
Many experiments, other than the one you
mention, . have been made to ascertain
whether it is harmful to drink with one’s
meals. No conclusive evidence has been
obtained to date. The Bulletin thinks
that it is largely a matter of what you
drink. Drinking tea with meat has little to
commend it. The European nations believe
in the value of certain wines as a means of
creating appetite and stimulating the secre-
tion of the salival and gastric juices.
Information Supplied.
2949.—Kikuyu grass is doing well in S.-E.
Queensland with a rainfall of about 45
inches. It holds its own against paspalum,
and seems to do as well in forest soils as in
scrub. One hundred cuttings sown about
3ft. apart in prepared land would, in a few
months, supply all the cuttings required. It
does not seed, so there is no danger of
cattle carrying it into cultivations where it
might prove a curse.—“ Sylvester.”
Does Anybody Know?
How to remedy the stickiness of an oil-
skin coat? Oilskin dressing made it worse.
—3358.
Method of clarifying home-made beer?
Also how to put Crown seals on bottles with-
out a machine? —3359.
How to store apples so that they will keep
through the winter?—3327.
How can I waterproof a brown canvas
shooting coat without using linseed-oil? —
3346.
Brief Answers.
F.P.: (1) It is not usual for overseas
steamers to carry qua! fled nurses in addition to
stewardesses. (2) No, only qualified nurses would
be engaged. (3) No. f4) Stewardesses are employed
to look after the fen ale passengers and children,
and are mostly engaged by the Marine Superintendent
attached to the differe it shipping companies’ offices.
.... Tony: A copy of the Constitution of the Com-
monwealth of Austra''a can be secured from the
Federal Government P -inter, Canberra or Melbourne,
price Is. 3d C.A.P.: In the absence of any stipu-
lation to the contrary. B can dispose of cream wher-
ever he likes. Why not consult him in a friendly
manner regarding date of giving up possession?
Litigation may prcve expensive and futile... .D. 8.:
The absence of a title-page and publication date
would make it difficult to determine the value of
the old Bible you possess. The best method would
be to send it to Mr. Piper, Secondhand Department,
Dymock’s Book Arcade, 428 George-street, Sydney
for inspection. .. .J.M.: Morrison Bros., Blacksmiths
and Engineers, 27 Murray-street, Pyrmont, Sydney,
can supply a geologist’s hammer at about 65.,
without handle... .G.R.M.: If it was a verbal
arrangement he will probably dispute what you
allege. Endeavor to settle without litigation. If
this fails, consult a solicitor. .. .Rates: You are
liable for all outstanding rates together with the
vendor, but should the Council compel you to pay
you may recover the amount at law from the vendor.
.E.S.: (1) The S. M. Herald published only
the names of saloon passengers. (2) The Navi-
gation Department may be able to help you. (3) The
Public Library and the Mitchell Library both state
that they possess copies of all the directories that
have been printed in Sydney. None were published
in the ’fifties. ... W.R.: The results of the “Best
Sport’’ Art Union were published in the S. M.
Herald on November 20, 1927, in the “Public
Notices”... .L.H.1.: Angus and Robertson, 89
Castlereagh-street, Sydney, have asked that you
send a specimen of your work to them.... M.H.:
N.S.W. Education Department informs us that the
picture is one of Cook, but any of the interpretations
mentioned would be accepted provided all the ques-
tions were answered consistently with the interpre-
tation. It is taken from “Cook’s Voyages of Dis-
covery,” edited by John Borrow, F.R.S., F.S.A., with
illustrations by John Williamson. Under the picture
are the words, “I now took possession in right of
his Majesty King George 111., by the name of New
South Wales” S.A.W. : (1) That is a question
best answered by the Calcutta Turf Club. Possibly
a local law prohibits it from accepting subscriptions
from outsiders, but does not prevent it confining the
sales of “numbers” to members, or it may merely be
policy. (2) Do not know, and even if we did the
N.S.W. Art Union and Lotteries Act would not
allow us to tell. .. .F.E.S.: (1) Birth registrations
exist at Somerset House from 1837. (2) General
Register Office, Somerset House, London, W.C.2.
(3) For persons abroad, ss. Id. (4 and 5) : Yes,
depends entirely upon the length of the search. In
Scotland, for instance, payment of £1 would cover,
search of all the registers, and apparently the same
obtains for England and Wales. (6) No. (7)
Registrar-General, H. M. General Register House,
Edinburgh; Registrar-General, Belfast, Northern
Ireland; Registrar-General, Dublin, Irish Free State.
. ...F.W.M.: Professor H. G. Chapman, Faculty of
Medicine, University of Sydney... .F. 8.5.: See
“Wild Cat” last week... . J.C.R.: Not keen on
it. But the price seems too 10w....H.P.: (1) Yes;
recoverable at law. (2) Certainly. (3) Reason-
able, though the capital will have to be written down.
. ...L.8.5.: They may promise. But if they don’t
fulfil their promise, what can you do about it ?. .. *
A.Q.: Depends entirely upon the risks you are pre-
pared to take. There are lots of safer things; but
the safe things can’t possibly pay you the profits
which this co. may make. .. . J.R.T.: Send us their
address, please... .D.M.: You bought because every-
body was buying, and now your inclination seems
to be to sell because everybody is selling. It’s a
bad system to follow. Still they will probably go
lower—if you can trust yoursef to buy in at the
right time. .. .F. 8.: If you’re not in a position to
gamble, get 0ut....R.P.: Cowles and Dunn, 453
Kent-street, Sydney, can supply an extractor for a
Harrington and Richardson’s 6in. “Target” model
complete with the spring for 10s. 6d. They would
need to have the revolver... .H.K.L.H.: (1) Communi-
cate with the Strand, Southampton-street, Strand, Lon-
don, W.C.2. (2) The Patent Office, 25 Southampton
Buildings, London, W.C.2. may be able to help you.
.... E.P.C.: The Victorian agents for the Aermotor
Cos. of Chicago, are Robinson Bros, and Cos. Pty.,
Ltd., Engineers, 100 Normanby-road, South Melbourne,
Victoria... .R.U.W.: Cape Argus or Cape Times,
both of Cape Town, Cape Province, Union of South
Africa H.W.C.: Master Traders Cos., M.U.1.0.0.F.
Buildings, 160 Castlereagh-street, Sydney. The safety-
razor referred to is called the “Allegro” and costs
30s H.H.: You probably mean “Dampier’s
Voyages,” edited by John Masefield, in two volumes.
Published in 1906 by E. Grant Richards (now of
8 St. Martin’s-street, London, W.C.2.) .... J.M.: The
specimens submitted are the larva: of the “larder
beetle” ( Dermesteg lardarius ), which attacks bacon,
cheese, skins and other such fatty substances. Little
can be done in the way of controlling this pest
except by cleanliness and removing and destroying
the insects whenever they are discovered. There
is no method of treating bacon to render it immune
to attack. The bacon should be kept in some insect-
proof room or receptacle giving no opportunity for
the insects to enter... .M.R.: The Gothenberg, 501
tons, passenger steamship, of Melbourne, from Darwin
to Adelaide, was wrecked on Great Barrier Reef, near
Flinders Passage, on February 24, 1875, 102 lives
being lost and 27 saved. .. .E.C.S.: Make an applica-
tion by letter. Your name will be placed on the
waiting list and you will be notified when it will
be convenient for the authorities to you to come.
.....T.D.T. : There is the “Lightning,”\ manufactured
by the Lightning Fruit Grader Cos., 5 (toddle-street,
Melbourne. N.S.W. agent, John JenkiiV Municipal
Fruit Markets, Sydney.... V.H.L.: For a ISritish-made
motor, Garrard Super model, double-spring, £6 15s.
Do not advise a swan-neck tone arm. TWp S-shaped
conforms to the alignment essential for) electrical
recording. Very satisfactory is the Paillam tangent
tone arm made in Switzerland. It must pe set so
that the needle extends fin. oner the centre| peg... -
Tweed Heads: See under “Information Sought,” reply
to No. 3163, this week S.Y.R.: (1) In Australia,
try Australasian Films, Film House, ifitt-street,
Sydney. In U.S., First National Pictures,] Burbank
Studios, California, and De Mille Stud iok Culver
City. A full list of American film producers that
will consider scenarios will be found in MifeOourtie’s
“Where and How to Sell MSS.” (2) The (Bulletin
does not give opinions on scenarios... .S. J.M.: The
department does not supply copies of pa st exam,
papers; but there is nothing to prevent a \candidate
supplying a coach with the questions he has been
asked. The professional coach makes a p ractiee of
filing and studying such papers, and gues- sing from
them the sort of questions that are likely - ;0 be put.
....(Many others mailed.)


f
m
'y/
K If
/:
I
sss
1
even abuse can spoil this finish
T
R)
sZ:■■&
A: 11 n;S
m
V,
ij
0)
When comparing any other player with the Improved'Five-Three’ ask if
the finish is guaranteed against cracks, checks, going white, dull, or
otherwise deteriorating. We guarantee the 'Five-Three ’ against all this.
THE finish on the Improved 'Five-
Three’ Player will last as long as
the instrument —fifteen, twenty, thirty
years; who knows how long a really
GOOD instrument will last! It is
guaranteedmot to crack, check, bloom,
grow dull, or deterior-
ate in any way. You
can even pour hot
water on it as a test.
For years the old-time
French polish was used
simply because this new
indestructible lacquer
had not been invented.
Now we have a per-
fect finish—worthy of
a perfect piano. Yet the
price is the sameas when
the 'Five-Three’ was
In comparing other
instruments with
the Improved ‘Five-
Three* Beale, ONLY
COMPARE INSTRU-
MENTS IN THE HIGH-
EST-PRICED CLASS.
The ‘Five-Three’ was
designed to compete
with this class, and
this only, notwith-
standing the low
price for which it is
sold.
first announced —the famous model of
which we have sold over ten thousand.
Ten thousand instruments! There are
ten thousand of the strongest reasons
why you should see the Improved
'Five-Three’ before you buy ANY
Player! Ten thousand reasons to
prove that for £205 you can have a
player of the very highest quality.
The case is of walnut, laid vertically.
Doors, new flush type, inlaid with
blackwood. The tone equals that of a
concert-piano of high-
est grade. The player
action embraces every
proved device for reli-
able, perfect interpreta-
tion. All felt is quite
proof against moths.
Call and see the dis-
mantled model now
being displayed in our
showrooms. Every
detail can be examined.
Above all, ask to see
the hot-water test. It
is the most amazing evidence of
confidence that can possibly be given.
Terms, easiest possible. Full descrip-
tive literature post free to any address.
Enquiries are welcomed, and will not
entail the slightest obligation upon you.
The
Improved ‘Five-Three*
Player at the old price:
£ 205
shows a saving of any-
thing up to £7O.
The Beale is also available in
combination with the Ampico
—the world’s most wonderful
reproducing medium. Ask to
hear the superb Beale-Ampico.
BEALE 6 COMPANY
LIMITED
Showrooms:
1340 George Street, Sydney
gh
Htad Office and Factories .*
41-4/ Trafalgar St. } Annandale
Branches throughout the com moiivealth!


The Federal Mutual
f
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation /ct 1926.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors: R. Rawnsley Moss, Chairman; W. B. Ainsworth, Esq.; T. A. Magney, Esq.;
S. Sampson, Esq.; J. T. Turner, Esq.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: Weymouth Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE, .Otoergl Manager.
YOU OWE SOMETHING
to yourself, your family and your country.
You cannot expect your own future to be prosperous if you do
not give it some thought and planning. You cannot expect your
family to exercise restraint and practise thrift if you do not set the
example.
You cannot reasonably demand that your country be governed
with far-sighted wisdom and economy if you are not prepared to apply
these principles to your own affairs.
Don’t just be a miser—practise Thrift with a Purpose, and
practise it the easiest way.
Open a Savings Account at any Branch or Post Office Agency of the
Commonwealth lank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
POVERTY
POINT
“Strict Veg.”: As a good example of the
censor-proof play, I proffer “A Cuckoo in the
Nest.” A man and a woman arc accidentally
thrown together in a country inn where there
is only one double room vacant. The land-
lady will accept them only as a married
couple; they are compelled to sign the register
as man and wife, and they spend the night
together, though quite chastely. The man’s
wife and the woman’s husband temporarily
come to the wrong conclusions, and so does
everybody else in the cast. The audience
enjoys an orgy of anticipation, but conven-
tional morality emerges unsmirched from the
morass. This English play is a direct con-
sequence of the Lord Chancellor’s censorship,
just as James Branch Cabell’s “Jurgen,”
with its endless ingenuities of double mean-
ing, is a product of the Yank Blue laws.
One service the censors do for art is to
snarpen writers wits.
“P.X.”: The Young- Australia League, a
body whose chief object is to get Young
Australia to know more and be prouder of
its own land, is having a carnival in Sydney.
And the best thing its organisers could
think of to say about it was that it was
“Coney Island brought to Sydney.” And
Coney Island is one of the bits of New
Ydrk that the respectable N’Yorker is least
proud of —a dirty beach packed with people
of all nationalities, largely continental Jews,
mixed with cheeky niggers, backed by a mile
of shrieking side-shows afflicted by every
sort of crook in the world.
, “T.P.”: One of the classic instances of
singers adopting foreign names was operatic-
baritone Verdi, who shared with George
Rignold the title of handsomest man on the
stage. Once in a theatrical lawsuit he faced
J. L. Purves. “Name,” snapped counsel.
“Guglielmo Verdi.” “Now, Guleyelmelow,”
coaxed Purves, “seeing you are Irish,
“what’s your genuine title?’ “William)
Green,” was the prompt reply. He was Bill
for the rest of the cross-examination; but
that made no difference to the flappers—
under any name he wa3 just as sweet.
“L. de R.”: One of the most amusing
press-agency schlenters ever worked was the
story spread in Melbourne that Pavlova was
so superstitious that she never entered a
new stage-door in the ordinary way, but had
to be carried over. One of the Taits was
deputed to perform the pleasant act of trans-
portation, and photographers and reporters
rolled up to record the thrilling scene. Actu-
ally the dancing lady knew nothing about her
lifelong habit until she set foot on Victoria
wharf. One scribe bit to the extent of
learnedly drawing parallels with cognate cus-
toms in the country of her birth. I was that
scribe.
“Kelby”: The latest engagement of an
artist to tour Australia is that of Brailow-
sky, booked by E. J. Carroll for April, 1929.
He is the newest “greatest living exponent of
Chopin.” For years Pachmann held almost
undisputed claim to that title, but press
agents in these parts have given it in turn
to Paderewski, Friedman, Leonard Borwick,
Moiseiwitsch and a few others. I would
suggest that a new composer be now selected,
and a competition held to ascertain who is
the greatest living interpreter of him, the
tournament to be a knockout one under
championship conditions. Any foot-faulting
(such as that of Paderewski jumping on the
pedal) shall immediately disqualify.
“E.E.W.”: Victoria is to taste the quality
of the Grand Guignol players. They are
to follow Zillah Bateman around the west-
ern circuit, where she will open two new
houses (at Geelong and Ballarat), links in a
chain of outside theatres growing under the
direction of a syndicate in which Howard
Lawson is a leading spirit. Later they
will appear at the Cairo, St. Ivilda. Yards
of talk are always being unfolded about Vic-
toria’s starvation diet of serious drama.
The Guignol season will test the sincerity
of that sort of chatter.
“Craiser”: Who says the Australian can-
not act? In “The Student Prince,” which
threatens to persist for ever at His Majesty’s,
Melbourne, there are no fewer than 40 fine
Australian actors on the stage together. I
refer to the chorus of Singing Students. A
Williamson male chorus can generally be
trusted to sing, but it is a superfine collec-
tion that can act as well —and as well as
these!
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : When a little trouble
that is brewing has been overcome London
will have its National Theatre, which has
been made possible by the good deed of Lord
de la Warr —he has given a piece of ground
in Grosvenor Gardens for the site. The
trouble is that one of the neighboring
tenants, who had to be consulted, objects
to having the back door of a theatre near
his premises. He says he “knows what back
doors of theatres are.”
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Beechain has again
startled oratorio lovers by his original ideas
FRONT-ROW CALCULATIONS.
“He’s got a fine figure."
“Yes! He showed me his pass-book.”
°* treating the tempo. Last year there was a
S raa t raising of eyebrows at his daring, but
n °body can deny he has put new life into
hones that needed it. The stodginess of other
“Messiahs” gave way to sturdy animation,
and though some of the singers tried to hang
on to the old style the conductor finally had
things liis own way.
“ A - Jack ” : The death of Tom Mclntosh
at Broken Hill is a reminder that many stage
artists have broken their professional careers
at the Hill. Those now here include Harry
Hoddinot, who was on Rickards circuits;
a couple of the musical Gardners, whose
music now is the ringing of the cash register
and the ooze of beer through the pumps ; J.
Proctor, a ban joist; and the Searpas, an
Hawaiian troupe. A charitable entertain-
ment recently revealed that there were
enough of them to form a Greenroom Club
and this has since been established. By
the way, Tom Mclntosh’s daughter was on
tour with a pantomime company on the west
coast of South Aus. when her dad went out.
“Goldilocks”: Leon Gordon deserves some
credit for frankly calling “The Trial of Mary
Dugan” a melodrama. The description is
right, and it applies also to many other
plays not so labelled. “Bellow” has returned,
with the difference that usually now there
is no virtuous heroine —she is generally sup-
plied with an excuse which suggests that
her sinfulness is more virtuous than virtue.
The public taste (which has been known to
shy at anything plainly marked “melo-
drama”) has been caught—witness the suc-
cess of Moscovitcli with some pure “bellow,”
after he’d had a rather thin time with
Shakspeare and other drama.
“L.H.P.”: Lord Burnham, who sold Lon-
don Daily Telegraph the other day, is a
grandson of Benjamin Webster, who for
many years was a prominent actor-manager.
Ben’s youngest daughter, Harriet, married
Harry Lawson, the first Burnham. The
second lord, here with the British Empire
crowd, married Olive de Bathe, a sister to
Sir Hugo de Bathe, hubby of the noted
“Jersey Lily” (Mrs. Langtry), so Burnham
has many links with the stage. Ben had a
family of five, and some of the grandchildren
still strut the boards.
“TJla” : Of the five pantomimes staged in
London over Christmas three presented Aus-
tralian principal boys—Vera Pearce, Kitty
Reidy and Lily Lapidus.
“L.H.P.”: George Bryant, now a Red
Indian chief with “Rose Marie” in M.L., is
probably the only survivor of the Louise
Pomeroy co. which toured the Shivery Isles
in the ’eighties with “A Woman of the People,”
a temperance drama. Louise’s forte was
classic drama, and during the Dunedin sea-
son at the old Queen’s she staged 12 plays
in as many nights. Mummers had to work
hard in those times, but the result—finished
performers of the Bryant brand—seems worth
Amity : G. H. R. Young, a Nelson Col-
lege boy who was later at Auckland Uni-
versity, has struck success in England with
“is first theatrical venture. Two years ago
Wellington College decided to forego the
usual annual extravaganza, and Young went
down to stage his farce “Just as You Say,
Dear.” Its success induced him to try it
farther afield, and as an audience at Kew
Theatre has received it with great enthusi-
asm his ppinion of his effort was apparently
justi e .
“Cauboy”: One cause for Englishmen fall-
ing behind Americans in stage favor is the
Englishman’s fidelity to tradition. Years ago
Seymour Hicks set a new fashion in comedy,
It was composed of unco-ordinated windmill
workings of the arms and legs, lightning
rapidity of speech and a deliberate inco-
herence of mental attitude towards the mat-
ter in hand. The method suited Hicks, who
worked it at approximately 1000 revolutions
a minute. Dozens of pseudo-Hickses there-
upon visited Australia, until one could have
heaved a bound edition of the Argus at
them. Just when we thought it was all
over, along comes Hastings Lynn, of “A
Cuckoo in the Nest,” with identically the
same manner, though some 900 revolutions
slower. No wonder the crowds drift away
to “The Best People” or “Cradle Snatchers,”
despite all appeals to make the Empire self-
contained.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : The conservative
soul of old Queen Victoria might feel per-
turbed to know that her great-grandson has
appeared on the public stage, and in a Ber-
nard Shaw play, too —“Arms and the Man.”
Prince Sigvard, second son of Crown Prince
Gustaf Adolf of Sweden and Princess Mar-
garet of Connaught, recently gave a per-
formance before the townsfolk of Upsala’,
headed by his royal kith and kin. Upsala is
the old university town, of Sweden, where
the prince is a student. He played Blunt-
sclili, and made a hit with the heretical
speeches.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : The plot of the
new American thriller, “Whispering Wires,”
at the Apollo turns on the diabolical habits
of a telephone. Among other exploits it
shoots the villain, a multi-millionaire, with
a tiny pistol concealed in the receiver. The
same idea was used years ago by Edgar Wal-
lace in “The-Four Just Men.”
“Ivelby”: Having played both, I can re-
assure “Fade-out” (B. l/2/’2B) that any
competent church organist can learn to per-
form attractively on a picture-show orches-
tral instrument in a few days. It’s
a darned sight harder to play a
Bach fugue on a church organ than
to blither through a tremulating sob
melody on an orchestral one. As
for the alleged showmanship re-
quired, it mainly consists in swing-
ing round on the organ seat and
allowing a friendly spotlight to illu-
minate a Cheshire grin. Also, I
refuse to believe that the public
flock to any big picture-theatre to
hear anyone in particular play the
organ. They go to see the picture,
and no organist in the world can
save disaster if the picture is not
up to standard. All that the aver-
age picture-goer asks of the organ-
ist'is that he will use the tremolo
stop every two minutes and play
something they all know. And I
can give “Fade-out” the names of
a dozen Sydney organists who could dill the
bill.
“Hamfat”: Arthur Greenaway, who is
putting on “Twelfth Night” at Sydney Con-
servatorium, played in the piece under W. J.
Holloway’s management during a Criterion
season—he was Sebastian and had Essie
Jenyns as his stage sister. It was a good
double, the pair having a distant resem-
blance ; in fact, Lord Carrington, having
seen Essie in doublet and hose, went to the
back of the scenes and hailed Greenaway as
the lady. That was two years before Essie
eloped with Jack Woods, cricketer and
brewer. Woods was accused of having
induced the ybung actress to break her con-
tract. There was actually no contract, but
the bridegroom sent along a cheque to settle
all arguments.
“Spokeshave” : Despite—or because of —
the fortune he is making, Edgar Wallace
gets worse and worse. His latest mystery
play, “The Terror,” is more conventionally
silly in its mechanical devices than usual,
and not a patch on Ridley’s “Ghost Train”
for psychological effect. Ruminating in cold
blood over the slovenly affair, I am still
unable to find any motive for the elaborate
system of electric doorlocks in the haunted
priory. Was it to exclude commonsense?
If commonsense were to wander in it might
ask the police officers why they proceed to
dig up a stone floor to get at the monk’s
den when they are perfectly aware of the
existence of a secret door. Wallace, however,
is quite frank. He recently admitted that
his output was immense because he believed
in making hay while the sun shines. He
is reputed to have written “The Terror”
in four days. I should not have believed it
took that long.
“Peter Pan” : Eve Grey, whose theatrical
career has been rather varidd since her
return to England, now appears to have
definitely settled in the movies there. In his
notice of a recent British film Sydney
Carroll, film critic of the London Sunday
Times, awarded Eve the only kind words. He
credited her with giving to the part of hero-
ine a rare combination of prettiness and
intelligence.
THE SHOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
.... “Seats available to the public at the trial of
Hickman are being allotted on the theatre plan.
Passes are issued for the morning or afternoon but
not for both.” —Cable from San, Francisco.
Walk up, walk up and book your seat,
For here is tragedy of worth;
A movie’s slow, the stage elfete;
This is the greatest show on earth !
A little maiden carved to bits
By a ferocious murderer!
Was ever such a hit of hits?
Oh, boy, it’s gonna cause a stir!
Walk up, walk up ; there’s little room,
And this you can’t afford to miss;
You’ll revel in erotic gloom
And shiver with sadistic bliss
When lawyers, primed with all the lore
Of crime, perversion, madness, lust,
Strange human darknesses explore—
The sort you’ve gotta know or bust.
Walk up, walk up and get your pass
To gloat upon a trembling wretch
Who fights for life (an opera-glass
Short-sighted folk had better fetch).
Walk up, walk up, and care not though
The scornful heavens crack with mirth,
As well they may if gods but know
This is the greatest show on earth!
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


Oj all dealers
II
,1 11 1 • • ••»,
r
in'
IM M 1
nil!!
li'
uii
■"i
ii'iin",,
uni
\ '"i
•<i,
The “Valet” Blade has not only the sharp-
est edge ever put upon 3teel, but there is
also in the “Valet” Razor a self-Stropping
device which revives that super-edge from
day to day. The perfectly designed
frame is rendered more efficient by the
excellence of its blade. The super-keen
blade is kept sharp for 50 or 60 shaves
by juSt ten seconds daily Stropping.
“VALET”
Safety Razor
TWitUh/l/Ujudsi
No. 99 Set. Contains razor,
three blades and strop in
neat case. All the essentials
for the perfect
“ Valet ” shave .
3'6
No. 55 Set. Contains razor,
three blades and strop in
hinged container. In highly
polished nickelled
case • • •
10/-
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON a COMPANY. LTD., 181, CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
New Zealand. Asents: Van Staveren Bros., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch.
JOHN JAMESON
* * *
WHISKEY
JOHN jameson *** Whiskey is made in
Dublin, by the old and expensive Pot
Still method—as we made it in 1780.
That’s how we get the flavour, the
glorious smooth John Jameson flavour.
Yet we sell it at the price of an ordinary
whiskey—But taste the difference!
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
B. Seppelt & Sons, Limited Melbourne Victoria
Perkins & Co., Ltd Brisbane, Q.
Milne & Co Perth, W A
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
i
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
Their Uniformed Interpreters at prin-
cipal ports and stations in Europe assist
their patrons in passing Customs
examinations, registering baggage, etc.
Passages Booked by all Lines.
Travellers* Cheques Issued.
Insurance of Baggage Effected.
Escorted Tours to Europe, etc.
Australian Farmers* Tour to Europe.
Inclusive Independent Tours.
Summer Holiday Tours.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 .. £18,366,297
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood; H. R. Lysagiit, 0.8. E. ;
George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors;
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd, James Tukb.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:/
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
P r " a f r p a " teed i toCk £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. t . j 875 qoo
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. ’374 197
Ordinary Shares 3,750;<)00
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,609,655
GRANTS DRAFTS , A , ust ™ li;i ’ New
Great Britain and Ireiand,
RECEIVES DEPOSITS f , interest
periods ana transacts all other usual Banking business'*
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OIFICE: 267 COLLINS STRPPT
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGESffiET
Authorised Capital . 9 oon non
Subscribed Capital .. ”
Reserve U Fund Pi . t ! 1 ” " ••^50,000
Reserve liability of shareholders
950,000
£2,200,000
1,250,000
ADELAIDE, . SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 109 Branches and Agencies in South Australia
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET EC.
AgencieSijn all Australian States and throughout the
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
transacted. remitted ' AU usual baking business
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
ProvideivtSocicty
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1926 £2,887,200
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,893,000
Accumulated Funds £63,600,000
Annual Income £9,600,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY. F.S.S., General Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
ghf
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&C°m.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office!: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
"The Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly’’
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.
Shipping, etc.
5 CANADAp^
UNIIEDsTATES
Europe
_ Bl
across tie racific
andJVcritiAmerica
TRAVEL BY THE
CAN ADI AN-AUSTRAL ASIAN LINE
TO VANCOUVER
(via Auckland, Suva and Honolulu),
Or by the
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(via Wellington, Rarotonga and Tahiti).
Through bookings to and from Canada, United States and Europe
with the choice of any railway route across the American Continent
and of any steamship line across the Atlantic.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY, LTD.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
tJollP^6 URS,ONs
JAVA (The Beautiful).
Monthly Sailings by the MARELLA (T. 7475) and
MALABAR (T. 5000), via the Picturesque Torres Strait.
Travel via JAVA to EUROPE, the Smooth-Water Route.
South Sea Island Tours
Regular Six-Weekly Sailings from Sydney.
New Guinea ss - montoro,
Visiting 16 Island Ports.
Solomons
S.S. MATARAM,
Visiting 24 Island
Ports.
£
- .
38S3C
Full Particulars from-
BURNS, PHILP & COY. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE LIABILITY
jSSfe
£7,481,960
5,650,000
7,481,960
£20,613,920
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esa.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.O.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; General Manager: OSCAR LINES
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadoeedle Street, E.C 2
514 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand Fiji Panna
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world’
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 3,950,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,428,025 0 0
Directors :
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman: Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L C •
Major-General the Hon. J. W. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D MLC* •
OWEN E. FRIEND; and Sir WILLIAM VICARS, C.B.E.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria, at Adelaide, South Australia
and Canberra, Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all nth ’
parts of the world. otner
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings*
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
gh
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no cargo for Mackay),
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Oladstorie, and
at Townsville for outports).
ORUNGAL.
BOMBA LA.
ORMISTON.
CANBERRA
Sat.,
Feb. 18.
Sat.,
Feb. 25.
Sat,
March 3.
Sat.,
March 10.
Wed.,
Feb. 15.
Wed.,
Feb. 22.
Wed.,
Feb. 29.
Wed.,
March 7.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd.. Kembla Big.
58 Margaret St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kembla Big.
58 Ma ran ret St.
En Route to America Tarry Awhile in
HAWAII
Or take a six to eight weeks’ Round Trip for
about £lOO to £l5O. It costs no extra passage
money to stop off in Hawaii. Quaint tearooms
and gardens; all American conveniences, good
hotels with meals 12/- to £3 per day; apart-
ments and furnished cottages. Entire cost Syd-
ney to Honolulu and return (two or three
weeks in Hawaii) and a day at Suva or Pago
Pago, about £lOO. Unique vacation; complete
change in land of music and sunshine, tropical
coloring, fruits and flowers. Balmy climate,
golfing, tramping, outrigger canoeing, surf-board
riding, outdoor sports. Inter-island cruises.
Volcanic wonderlands. Ask nearest travel agency
or write Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept. 26, Box
241-D, -G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for beautifully
colored booklet, enclosing this advertisement.
See Lovely Hawaii This Year.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WuLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-clSss Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NGRTH COAST S: N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU. CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Huddart Parkei Llm
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAIiT PARKER LIMITED
CoilinsStreet, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
JENOLAN
CAVES
Inclusive
T hree-
Day
T ours —
Rail and
Motor,
£4/7/-
Motor All
the Way,
£5/5/-
Bracing Air,
Glorious Scenery,
Wonderful Caverns,
Dancing,
Billiards,
Card-room Lounge.
Tour Programme and Booking at
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


A
A
■
A
■
nY
lglfilf§
V
mm
£v§&.v
&•§£:>;
The Last Ounce . . .
No matter how lively the game AERTEX will keep
you cool and in condition even on sweltering days.
The AERTEX Cellular principle of fabric construc-
tion ensures the free circulation of air at an even
temperature next the skin, and thus affords the finest
insulation the body can have against extremes of
heat and cold.
Wear AERTEX and get the last ounce of enjoyment
from your outdoor activities.
AERTEX
Obtainable from all Hosiers, Outfitters and Drapers: or in case of
difficulty apply to
The CELLULAR CLOTHING Co. Ltd., 313 Flinders
Lane, MELBOURNE, Victoria, Australia.
who supply Wholesale Trade only.
A. 73
iPaoO't
X -
»• v
m
Losing
your
Health ?
THE only way to look really young
is to keep both body and nerves in
perfect condition. And you can do
that—with Sanatogen.
Your nerves need phosphorus, your
body needs albumin, to build up
lasting strength and good health.
Sanatogen gives exactly those elements
in such a perfect combination that
the weakest stomach can digest it.
radiant health
with
The True Tonic-Food
At all Chemists—from 3/9 per tin.
GENATOSAN LTD.. LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.
THE INKY WAY.
The late John St. Loe Stracliey, principal
proprietor of London Spectator, left £30,988.
The County Gentleman was another of
his interests.
“Mintie”: Remarkable effort from a dis-
consolate widow in a recent Age :
Do I miss him ? Aye, but mourn not,
He has only gone before;
How he’ll watch my weary toilings
Through the chinks of Heaven’s door.
“A. Jack”: Broken Hill’s leading news-
agent finds only one advantage in the Sydney
line—he gets his Bulletins a day earlier.
As for the Sydney dailies, however, he would
prefer to have them by the old route through
AVlelbourne and Adelaide. Friday’s paper
doesn’t seem old when it is the only one
taken from a new stack on Tuesday morning,
but has a very aged appearance when Satur-
day and Monday’s issues are handed out with
it.
“O. McKay M.” : Fleet-street holds a vet-
eran Australian inkslinger in W. J. Brient.
sometime editor of Sydney Daily Tele-
graph, who at 73 is staffed in the Aus-
tralian Press Association’s London office,
that haven of rest in tealisbury-square. Brient
ran London Daily Chronicle, and was later
colonial editor of Morning Post. He has
just about divided his life between Australia
and London. One of his sons handles his
cables at the other end for Melbourne Argus.
“H.”: The A.W.U. conference in Hobart
decided to- push on with the publication of
the World in Sydney. This is an A.W.U.
challenge to the forces behind the Labor
Daily. Despite the war, the World might
have appeared in 1914 had not some of the.
printing presses consigned to it from America
gone astray in a German vessel. Before
these could be replaced the paper shortage
began to be acutely felt, and an indefinite
postponement was decided upon. The Daily
Herald -in .Adelaide was the first daily estab-
lished under Labor auspices; after a desper-
ate struggle extending over many years it
faded out.
“Lex” : I saw.a good deal of Harry Morant
(“The Breaker”) (B. 25/l/’2B) when lie
was under arrest at Petersburg, N. Trans-
vaal, awaiting court-martial over the Bush-
veld Carbineers cases. He showed me some
of his compositions in writing and recited
others. He must have kept other copies of
one scribbled set of verses he presented to me,
for a facsimile appeared in “Bushman and
Buccaneer.” The first verse ran :
In prison cell I sadly sit,
A poor crestfallen chappie,
And own at times I feel a bit—
Yes, just a bit, unhappy.
Morant always asserted that Admiral Morant
was his father, and wrote to the elderly
naval man asking him to intervene. The
Admiral, after Harry’s death, in a polite
letter denied any relationship.
“Old Sub”: The announcement that the
N.S.W. Government intends to tighten up
the law regarding “obscene publications”
raises the question as to how it can be done
without catching a great many big fish in a
net designed for some very little ones. Web-
ster defines obscenity as “something offensive
to chastity or delicacy; expressing or pre-
senting to the mind or view something which
delicacy, purity and decency forbid to be
exposed.” The essence of the offence is that
it has to offend someone, and if it is left to
the policeman to say what is offensive and
THE TEST.
“You say you’d risk anything for me. But
how can I prove it, Alberto?”
“Marry me, my dear-many me.”
what is not the result is likely to be far from
satisfactory to the rest of the community.
Any vendor of the Bible or the works of
Shakspeare, not to mention Rabelais, de
Maupassant, Boccaccio and Burton’s trans-
lation of the “Arabian Nights,” might find
himself before the beak if the law gets too
finicky.
“M. Quad’ : It is not many years since
the A.J.A. secured something like a footing
for the most precarious iob there is in jour-
nalism. that of suburban correspondent for
a Melbourne daily. The o*».-r day further
changes were made. Such correspondents are
to have retainers of £5 10s. per week, but
"lines must; cover more than that to be a
journalists living wage. The districts are
arranged by agreement of the chiefs of staff;
some of these districts cover half a dozen
municipal councils, half of which meet on
the same night. The district man is respon-
si Me for all news in his district. Formerly he
-could get his-dmes^-in-amd'take occasional
engagements at 30s. a day or 17s. 6d ; per
half-day. But the new arrangement dodges
the rule that any man employed more than
three days a week (for which he got 375. 6d.
a day) shall be paid £ll as for a full week.
•To evade awards by making one new district
out of two of the old ones will not make for
good services,
“Lao-dah”: The British Lawn Tennis
Association’s proposal to prohibit “ghosting”
in newspaper articles dealing with the game
is unlikely to be well received. The person
who does things in this world, with a racquet
or anything else, is seldom the petson who
can write about them, and Australia provides
some notable examples. One great epic of
Antarctic exploration would never have been
written if it had not been for a humble
journalist, and the inner life, the aspira-
tions and ideals of Nellie Stewart would not
have been in every playlover’s library if it
had not been for another. The last-named,
incidentally, is a masterpiece of vicarious
emotion. I doubt if any uninitiated reader
lies ever detected the masculine hand behind
that essentially feminine chronicle.
TIME TO GO.
LADY OF THE HOUSE: “You’d better get away
from here—my husband will be home-
in a few minutes.”
DUSTBIN CHARLIE: “Righto, missus—we
don’t want any scandal, do we?"
“Avon”: The Americanisation of the
Australasian press goes on apace. Sydney’s
Evening News presents daily a syndicated
cartoon by Batchelor, a New York artist,
whose themes are drawn exclusively from
the land in which lie lives. Probably the
worst offender, however, is Auckland Sun,
which features the puerilities of Dr. Frank
Crane, and seldom lets an issue go by with-
out reprinting several choice examples of
Yankee philosophy and mentality. In a
recent issue the folk of Auckland are invited
to interest themselves in the views of Crane
on the Dempsey-Tunney match; a proposal
to build a road from Maine to South
America; the remarkably trite views of
Judge Ben Lindsey on the divorce problem;
the Japanese invasion of Hawaii, and a
mix-up of infants in a maternity hospital in
Cleveland, Ohio. And all this reprint stuff
was given a lot of space and assorted scare
headlines.
“El Tea” : A long and tangled trail into
the history of Maoriland, political and jour-
nalistic, is opened up by a very belated review
in the Lyttelton Times of the last edition
of W. P. Reeves’s “Long White Cloud.” It
appears over the name of S. Saunders, who
was editor of the journal for over a quarter
of a century, and was one of the successors
of W. P. Reeves in the chair. Sam Saun-
ders, who knew both W. P. Reeves and Dick
Seddon intimately, and who was Dick’s most
trusted adviser, defends Seddon against cer-
tain sneers in the “Long White Cloud.” Only
twice has Saunders published anything over
his own name in the Lyttelton Times. The
first was a letter to himself in 1913, the year
before he resigned. It arose out of a jour-
nalists’ claim before an Arbitration Court —
be first in the world. Saunders had been
quoted by the management of the “L.T.” as
being opposed to preference to unionists,
and he corrected the assertion. The rift
developed into a definite clash between editor
and proprietary a few months later, when
Saunders, alone among M.L. editors, refused
to allow his reports of happenings during
the waterside workers’ strike to be submitted
to military censorship.
“E.S.S.”: Ford’s Creek, a tributary of
the Richmond River (N.S.W.), across which
the new border line is being built, was named
after Ned Ford, an early-time shepherd on
Wyangarie, who was noted for his Spartan
spirit. One day, while working by the
creek, lie was bitten on the arm by a black
snake. Holding the punctured part tightly
between thumb and finger, he got his eight-
year-old daughter to saw off the piece of
flesh with his tobacco knife. A couple of
days afterwards the infant surgeon was
struggling at the breakfast table with a
piece of hard steak. “This meat’s as tough
as Daddy,” she said.
“8.-Gar” : In the Homing Stakes the bull
camel is first and the rest nowhere. Unless
securely tied down he will travel the length
or breadth of the continent to reach the
spot where he last met his lady friend. An
Afghan camped one night three miles on the
S.A. side of the Birdsville (s.-w. Q.) gate;
in the morning six of his camels were gone.
They were eventually found at Hergott
Springs, 390 miles away, and, according to
authentic information, had travelled the full
distance in 60 hours.
“O’J.”: Brown Brother, although inordi-
nately proud of his “medal belonga mission,”
remains Brown Brother underneath. One
stalwart convert became a native teacher,
and later was elevated by a white missionary
to some imposing ecclesiastical rank. He
imagined that this office exempted him from
the embargo on Kanakas entering saloons or
steamer bars, and openly defied a 8.-P.
steward, who showed him the way out. As
he retreated he -snarled: “Suppose you come
along Malatfa one day me kai-kai you finish,
every bit!”


H*#
~j:
«*
+f#
t
ft
0
<r
’ *..
*** -<*&«■ ,; -..
Si
ft»r
jr
S'^K'■»*&/ V
r wy-f '
kx-w
haz
i Sjk
r/tSE
r
d*‘ r
y
i w
<r\
■ v^s?y > j
Tr
-M*r
i a
a
y.
>*«
Sr
%
From days when the ancients
conceived the sun as a chariot of
fire sped by steeds of flame, men
have dreamed and striven to
harness heat to useful power.
57 Great Companion Invention
to the Super-Six Principle -
Turns waste heat to power
This new companion invention to the Super-Six principle
converts heat, heretofore wasted in all other types, into
useful power.
Together they combine the highest-efficiency in power genera-
tion, and the maximum efficiency in power transmission ever
achieved within our knowledge. It makes Hudson the most
economical car per pound weight in the world.
Steam Engine Smoothness and Power
The new Hudson motor delivers a flood
of rugged power from standing start
closely resembling the mighty and elastic
power of the steam engine. Yet ajt all
speeds this power is vivacious and in-
stantly answerable to the lightest touch
of the throttle. In it are combined all
advantages of speed, snap and perform-
ance of the high-compression motor,
with the smooth flexibility of low com-
pression type.
Spark knock heretofore characteristic of
the high-compression motor is eliminated.
Ordinary gasoline gives the performance
results sought through special and higher-
priced fuels. By Hudson’s method of
vaporising raw gasoline that enters the
combustion chamber, oil dilution is pre-
vented, and heat formerly wasted
through the exhaust becomes useful
power.
In all ways to-day’s Hudson is the great-
est ever produced. And it is natural that
its public reception surpasses anything in
Hudson history.
70 %
Australian Built
Under this combination of resources,
American and Australian industry
has achieved manufacturing economies
that no other builder for the Australian
market shares.
Hudson 7-pass. Touring (Aus. Body) £465
Hudson 5-pass. Coach (Imp. Body) 499
Hudson Brougham (Imp. Body) . . 560
Hudson 7-pass. Sedan (Imp. Body) 650
Hudson 5-pass Coach, 118in.
wheelbase 480
Hudson 5-pass. Sedan, 118in
wheelbase 510
Prices at some points slightly higher.
HUDSON Super-Six
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED.
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
1183.


BROWNING AUTOMATIC
ghf
£9/9/-
r
POST FREE.
New Improved Model
12 Gauge.
5 Shots as fast as you can pull the trigger.
HERE IS THE IDEAL GUN Quick as RELIABLE and
taken anart in a few seconds; and is ABSOLLIELI anu
hits harder than a double-barrel Shot Gun. There are no restrictions in
the use of these guns.
fy^A&ice
Gun & Cartridge
Makers,
318 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne
\ A
For They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
BITTER ALE.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
A nd so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILF & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON. * [l
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The Moorefield dub received 17 accept-
ances for its Gold Cup on Saturday. With
fewer horses in the field the race would
have been more interesting; as it was, there
were only four in it after four of the eight
furlongs had been traversed, several well-
backed candidates being hopelessly placed
from the start. Cadenza (25 to 1) made the
pace in the interest of her stable-companion
Killarney (4 to 1), but in point of fact she
beat the favorite and everything else bar
Honan (5 to 1), who ran home two lengths
ahead of her in lmin. 4HJsec., equal to the
course-record time. The English horse has
certainly made good, and at this stage he
looks a very likely candidate for the King’s
Cup. Killarney was third, half a length
astern of Cadenza, and Cave Dweller (5 to
1) was a creditable fourth. Triplex, Black
Duchess and Royal Sun ran well, considering
the conditions.
The Moorefield Handicap produced a stir-
ring finish between Bernesk (7 to 2), suc-
cessful at Roseliill a fortnight previously,
and Lady Brightlights (8 to 1). and the
judge could not separate them. Woolita (20
to 1) would have troubled the pair of them
had she been in a better position as the field
rushed into the straight. This daughter of
Carlita is looking very bright, and may be
worth toting in her next few starts.
Three members of the Greenstead family
filled the places in the Three-year-old Handi-
cap—Greenwich (5 to 1), Green (20 to 1)
and Beckwith (7 to 4). Beckwith was a
good thing beaten: he missed the jump-out
and then, after working into a winning posi-
tion, got on another horse’s heels in trying
to come through on the rails. MeCarten’s
riding was moodily criticised, and the un-
complimentary remarks were repeated when
the Maorilander’s mount Magdaff (5 to 1)
was narrowly defeated in the Carlton Welter
after having been a long way out of his
ground. But Boonala (4 to. 1), who won,
is a good little horse on his day, though
nowadays rather difficult to train.
* * * *
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Dundas Handicap: Reonui; next, St.
Eaton.
February Handicap: Royal Sun; next,
Lucy Tbrice.
Granville Stakes: St. Bees.
Flying Welter: Magdaff; next, Sir Allan.
Some excellent performers have scored in
the C. F. Orr Stakes, a w.f.a. race, with pen-
alties, for which the Williamstown club pro-
vides a stake of £5OO, but there were no
champions among the nine starters on Satur-
day. It was a good betting race, however;
there was genuine money for five of them,
Translator (3 to 1) above all. The affair
proved unexpectedly easy for Sailing Home
(0 to 1), who took the lead early and gave
nothing else a chance once Scanlon let his
head go. Translator finished gamely, but
was a length and a half behind the imported
horse at the judge’s box. Spearset (0 to 2)
was a good third and Quintus (9 to 2), fin
ishing strongly, fourth, ahead of Metellus. A
six-year-old stallion by Bay d’Or— W ater
Baby, Sailing Home is not long back from
a season at the stud. The time, lmin.
SOJsec., equalled the record for the race
established by The Night Patrol.
Textile, who had run badly at Caulfield
in the Anniversary Handicap, was on his
best behavior in the Wyndham Handicap, 11
furlongs. Top weight at 9st. 101 b., he
finished up at 10 to 1 in the betting-sevens
was taken early—Yalwyne, now racing in
Charlie Kellow’s colors, being favorite at
4 to 1. Sabretache (25 to 1) dashed to the
front at the start, and was six lengths clear
at one stage. But Textile cut him down and
turned for home three lengths clear of
Diamond Plume (11 to 2), whom lie beat
by a length and a half; Epilogue (» r > to 1)
was half a length away and Jack Shepherd
(5 to 1) fourth. Textile has 9st. 31b. in the
Australian Cup, and if he keeps right he
is sure to be one of the fancied candidates, as
he finished fourth in the last Melbourne Cup
with Bst. 51b.
The O’Dwyer-Scanlon combination, success-
ful with Sailing Home and Textile, gained
further glory and its concomitants in the
MARKET VALUE.
URGER: “Some o’ these ’ere bookies are north half a million.”
SURGER: “Well, they may have it, but you can’t tell me they’re worth it.”
Marine Handicap, wherein the speedy St.
Anton mare Margaux (9 to 2) snatched the
verdict by a half-head from Wedau (6 to .li-
lt was a close thing, and there was i a slight
“demonstration,” a good many people think-
ing Wedau had just got there. Margaux,
who covered the distance in Imm. ldfsec.
has 7st. 101 b. in the Oakleigh Plate, also in
the Newmarket.
* * * *
The Oakleigh Plate looks as difficult as
ever to pick this year. Apart from the prob-
lem the handicapper has set, a great deal
depends on the barrier positions. Running
him at a mile won’t help Translator (9st.
131 b.), who, as a result, may not jump out
quickly enough, but Sans Culotte (Bst.
111 b.), despite her Moonee Valley failure, is
sure to run well. Others with chances are
Baringhup (Bst. 51b.), Whitta (Bst. 51b.).
Rubus (Bst. 31b.), Margaux (7st. 101 b.), and
Wedau (7st. 31b.). Whitta galloped five m
one-one before she left Sydney. She is very
fretful when on parade and takes a lot out
of herself in that way; if her party can get
over the difficulty, she will be very hard to
beat on Saturday. At all events, Whitta is
selected to win, with Sans Culotte and Rubus
next.
* * * *
“Eagle Farm”: Queensland racegoers got
a shock when the Government cancelled the
totalisator permit of the Q.T.C. for, as it
said, “good and sufficient reasons. ahe
permit was granted just 39 years ago, and
since then various types of machine have
been used. The club managed to get another
machine installed in time for its meeting on
Saturday, and matters seem to have gone
smoothly. But it is a curious situation, and
one of which the public would like to hear
more * *
“Machete” : Brisbane saw its first woman
jockey the other day when Miss Draper rode
a moke named Whispering Echo in a trot
at Kedron Park. The lady, who is a well-
known Show rider over the jumps, has
steered winners at Bundaberg and other out-
side centres, and must be an accustomed
iiand to get a mount at Kedron, w,here a
rider has to be well up in all the fine points
of the game to command engagements.. Ot
course, she is not the first of her sex to
figure on metropolitan courses. Mrs. Kelly,
wife of the Californian boxer who fought
under the name of “Cullen,” won races in
Perth 13 or 14 years ago.
* * * *
“S.T.”: The Premier and ex-Premier of
South Aus. are both keen racing mejjt, and
are generally found supporting the club
chairman at each official race lunch. They
have lately been exchanging pedigree chaff.
Butler was recommended to buy a horse and
-all it Lionel Ilill. whereupon he suggested
( -haf it would have to be a colt by Bold and
Bad. Hill hit back with a remembrance of
Butler’s father, Treasurer of Soutn
through some gloomy seasons, and imagined
a youngster by Comic Ivnight—Mother Hub-
bard, to be christened Dismal.
Hs ❖ * *
“TJla”: Raheny, the Speck’s champion
jumper in his day, was unusual among
steeplechasers. He was left entire and went
to the stud. A son, Spencerian, won a
brush steeple at the Newnham club’s meeting
recently. Another son, Pocket Edition, has
won several pony races in Vic. under heavy
weights.
* * * *
“Bellerophon”: Aeroplanes are being con-
structed in England to carry racehorses to
and from France and Ireland. The notori-
ously unreliable weather of the English and
St. George’s Channels often makes the trans-
fer of valuable mokes a risky and anxious
job with all the inconveniences of railage
at the ports added. The smooth-flying ’plane
will wipe out these incidental risks, and land
its charges direct on the racecourses, or at
the aerodrome nearest to the neddy’s intended
training quarters.
> M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
’ The Sydney Stadium fight between Africau
’ Billy Harms (list. 41b.) and Tommy Mc-
Innes (list.) was thrilling in every sense
of the word. From the “shake” to the ver-
; diet neither man eased up for so much as
s 10 seconds, except in the prescribed intervals.
When they clinched and were ordered or
pulled apart by the referee, they sailed
, into one another with a dogged determina-
, tion that satisfied the most carping and
blood-thirsty critic. Mclnnes, owing to his
tremendous shoulders and hairy chest, looked
pounds heavier than the Afrikander. He
tried to make a southerly-buster of it from
the start, but found Harms as eager as him-
self, and if the Scot hadn’t been as tough as
a resurrected haggis he must have been
stopped, for Harms scarcely ever missed
him with either hand. Mclnnes scorns to
duck and has scarcely any defensive guard.
But he is gloriously game, and beyond a
split brow and a slightly swollen nose and
lips, he show’ed scarcely any effects of
Harms’s incessant punches. The Scot scored
heavily on the body, but wasted scores of
right swings on the back, often actually
between the shoulders. Leaping back from
a rush in the fourteenth round, Harms ricked
his left ankle, but a good rubbing in his
corner enabled him to hop out smartly, and
despite a perfect fury of attack he Avon the
round and got the verdict. It was the most
satisfactory contest seen at the Stadium for
many months.
* * * *
Bill Samuels (lOst. 711 b.) and Rex John-
son (lOst. 4J)lb.) had the place of honor in
Melbourne’s mixed programme of stoush on
Saturday night. But the display was such
that Val Quirk declared it “no fight” at
the conclusion of 12 tedious rounds. Val
vas cheered by the small crowd; Samuels,
vho is an abo., was hooted.
* * * *
“Stoush”: Something new in boxing
matches was seen the other night at Broken
Hill. The wife of one of the “preliminary”
pugs was at the ringside. When her hubby
was declared the loser she jumped into the
ring and assaulted the Avinner till she was
removed by the police. It recalls Mrs. Fitz-
simmons’s behavior when her husband beat
.Corbett for the championship. The lady
gave Corbett a tongue-thrashing all through
the scrap from a front seat near Fitz’s
corner. The film —-one of the first to be
shown in Australia —made the infuriated
female so interesting a figure that a number
of people quite forgot to watch the fight.
* * * *
“Cauliflower” : Zybysko, the Polish wrest-
ler, who strutted his little hour in Australia
a year or two ago, has been defeated at
Patiala by an Indian named Gama. The
match was, of course, for the world’s title,
and was all over in a minute, an exhibition
that wouldn’t please Australian patrons of
the game, who like a lot for their money
even when there are honest doubts as to
whether the principals are in earnest. There
were 40,000 spectators at Patiala, so the
“gate” must have been satisfactory to con-
queror and conquered, at any rate.
Racquet and Bawl
The first series of lawn-tennis matches
between Australia and France, played in
Melbourne, resulted in a win for France, 6
rubbers to 3. On the opening day Brugnon
beat Crawford and Borotra accounted for
Hopman, though each Frenchman lost a set.
Patterson and O’Hara Wood came to the
rescue by vanquishing Borotra and Boussus,
6-4, 6-2. Hopman was again off his game
against Brugnon next day—he took only
three games in (lie two sets. A great match
followed between Patterson and Borotra,
but the Basque Avas always a bit too clever
(7-5, 7-5). The second doubles went to
France, Brugnon and Boussus beating CraAv-
ford and Hopman, 6-4, 6-1.
Crawford’s turn came on the last day, when
he electrified the croAvd by defeating Borotra
6-1, 6-4 —and there was no fluke about it
either. O’Hara Wood also triumphed over the
youthful Boussus by two sets to one. Pat-
terson and Hopman captured two sets from
Borotra and Brugnon, but lost the last three.
The matches left the impression that the
Australians would have nothing to fear from
the Frenchmen if they Avere as consistent —
but they are not, and that’s where the
trouble lies. Perhaps the in-and-out form
of Crawford and Hopman is due to their
having played too much tennis the last
twelvemonth to oblige the gate-money
brigade.
* * * *
1 “C.Q.”: Unless a fourth man is added to
the Davis Cup team, Patterson and Hopman
will have to hold up Australia’s end in
doubles contests. Crawford is irritatingly
! erratic when co-operating with a partner.
! The need for a fourth man and the claims of
Pat Wood to be that person ought to be con-
l sidered. Wood is a piece of seasoned iron-
; bark who shows no signs of decay.
(Continued on page 37.)
BALLADE OF THE ENRAGED
PUNTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The noble steeds desisted from their fleet
Careers, the measured distance duly sped;
The blinking favorite, I learned, was beat;
The blooming “sties,” another hazarded,
Might just as well have been at home in
bed;
And ’mid a lot of other jarring notes
I heard a mutter: “Half the cows were
dead !
I’d just as lief lia’ lost it on the goats.”
“Heart up, old sport! We all must taste
defeat
At times,” I sympathetically said.
“Such setbacks make a punter’s wins more
sweet,
And ’tis a lordly -sport for which you’re
bled.
Your custom helps improve the thorough-
bred
On whose achievements every Briton dotes.”
“Aw, cut it out!” lie growled uneonWnrt<'d,
“You couldn’t get a crooker spin on goats.’*
“Look on these lawns,” I said, “a verdant
treat.
These parterres, rich in green and gold and
red.
Where, without you and yours, would our
elite
Hold festival whqn summer lies like lead
On dusty cities? How would books be
fed
And Carbines in the making earn their oats
If no one lost?” He grumbled: “Shut yer
head !
I’d just as soon ha’ done me brass on goats.”
Envoy.
Princes who promenade where ringmen bleat,
And clubs that draw fat tribute from the
totes,
’Ware lest King Horse his gambling match
should meet
In tin-pursuing hounds and harnessed
goats!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


~ T* ■
liww
£
%rh v
%
■
0/'//'//,
w
“**»>. '
fci
SfeS
*
A
Efe 1
\
y : 1|;M; ill lit
m
i '"''V. sßi ” <
•' - gll '
m
f p
L<
.
■
#
V
WB.
a*
~; , v
• V
i
4
.*•
5^
JOT
I
mi
.•
Orott?»\
EUGV-AHO
f/uam-
\~.o
LLED
1
I
i
W">
Y/s
f/mwm
i
ipi
I
«
IT.
£/
P&-
\
'"///M/m,
"/mM////'///////'//.
/
m
m
\ ~ >#i ',
V
A
9
gh
GIN
Is absolutely
Pare
do paf that in ]fou/i
g(ax> atu( d/unk <t
idyputnduz
ycwt-ftea£tf\
The Gfot-DJsailers
in the World


BRITISH EXHIBITION
Opens 23rd February,
11 a.m. to 10 p.m. daily.
Admission? IJ-
MELBOURNE
EXHIBITION BUILDINGS
HEINZ
Sweet Gherkins
Crisp, tender, appetizing. They
put the appetite on edge afrd
make the whole meal taste
better. Heinz Relishes, Heinz
Olives, Heinz Chow Chow, are
all equally delightful.
1368
one of the
57
Varieties
Racquet and Bawl
“Colonel Damurize”: Being a golfer, I
hesitate to write about lawn tennis, parti-
cularly as my views on the intrusion of
women into the royal and ancient game must
be familiar to Bulletin readers. However,
one of those esteemed officials who give the
Sydney papers the benefit of their vast know-
ledge at so much a column lias incited me
to spill ink by describing the case of a young
champion who addresses angry remarks to
colleagues in doubles, throws his racquet on
the ground, and otherwise behaves like a
spoilt cub. I can match this with the story
of a prominent woman player, who, on
being defeated, threw herself down on the
court in full view of the public and took a
large bite out of the turf. Had the lady
been playing golf she would have been under
the obligation of replacing the divot. As
far as I can learn, this was not insisted on
by the L. T. Ass.
* * * *
“Grip”: The draw for the Davis Cup
shows that Australia’s first appearance in
the European zone will be against Italy. The
Italians gave the Frenchmen a very good go
for it in the European zone last year, and
the test will be a fairly solid one if they
can reproduce their form on this occasion.
Denmark, which knocked Britain out last
year, is to meet Poland, while Ireland, mak-
ing a first appearance, will take on Holland.
Mnoriland will engage the Portuguese in the
second round.
* * * *
“15-30”: The eternal argument as to the
relative merits of volleyers and baselincrs
in tennis was given a further stimulus by
the match between Borotra and Crawford
in Sydney. On the aggregate of games—
each won 24—the battle was a draw. Simil-
arly close results may be expected from
experts in the two forms of game who are
of equal tenacity and efficiency in their
ground strokes. Cocliet volleyed Tilden to
a standstill at Wimbledon when the big
American was two sets in and had a 5-1 lead
in the third chapter. Borotra beat Crawford
by the sprightliness of his net play. In my
opinion Crawford will always have more
trouble with net-huggers of the Cochet-
Borotra kind than he will with the fast-
growing school of accurate but unspectacu-
lar ball-placers whose present god is
Lacoste. The determined net-ruslier of great
reach and skill will always rattle the base-
liner. It was this aspect of Borotra that
disturbed the usually faultless mechanism
of Crawford.
* * * *
“Pit-a-pat”: Betty Nuthall’s stocks have
slumped in the English lawn-tennis market.
She has been succeeded in popular estima-
tion by Eileen Bennett. Eileen must be a
useful sort, for a few days ago she won the
Cannes championship, which Suzanne Len-
glen held in fee for so long, from American
Elizabeth Ryan, after having beaten the
lovely Betty. A couple of years ago the
American girl was rated fifth in the list of
the world’s best women players, which was
headed bv Suzanne Lenglen.
X * * 5>S X
“Cut Shot” : Not one of the English cham-
pionships is now held by an Englishman, and
something is going to be done about it. Lord
D’Abernon, the new president of the L.T.A.,
recently shook that venerable and crusted
organisation to its socks by asking it why
the dickens it didn’t spend some of its
hoarded gains in hunting up young players
and getting them properly coached. The
ancients have now meekly replied that, their
objective of a £25,000 reserve having now
been reached, they propose to be reckless, and
drat the expense. The engagement of Kozeluh
(B. 19/l/’2B) is the first step in the direc-
tion of a professional coaching scheme in-
tended to teach the young idea of England
to shoot a better game than it has been
able to show for some years past.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Delia”: Holing out in one has become
such a commonplace in these days of shaven
fairways and long-running balls that few
take any interest in the happening, save,
those who are handy when the time comes for
the customary penalty. America has pro-
duced a striking variation. Two New
Yorkers did the ninth hole in one. They
were playing in the same game, and one
followed the other at the tee, “shooting”
some 30 seconds after him. It is hard to
say how this can be improved upon, unless
it is on one of those courses in which the
same hole does double duty, say as number 9
in one direction and number 15 in another.
Then, with two players in different games
and playing in opposite directions, the feat
might be possible. It is sad to think that
the new record has been made in a prohibi-
tion country, but no doubt some way to sur-
mount the difficulty was found.
x * * *
“The McHaggis” : At Roseville (N.S.W.)
the other day a bulldog picked up a played
ball in a game and carted it half-round the
links before he could be persuaded to drop it
—no one cares to offer violence to a bulldog.
Argument rose as to the proper procedure,
and the answer seems to be that the ball
should have been replaced where it was
picked up by the tyke. It recalls an experience
of my great-uncle, the McCanny of McCauny,
with an Aberdeen terrier which owned him.
The “doug” swallowed the ball in this instance.
When he died of indigestion my great-uncle
presented his bodv to the faculty of Veter-
inary Surgery at Edinburgh University, with
the sole proviso that his representative
should be present at the autopsy to recover
the ball.
:Jj * * *
“Divot Digger”: Football players arc
very useful golfers when they give up the
less nerve-wracking game. Many old Rugby
men are figuring prominently in Sydney golf
nowadays, and the latest to achieve promi-
nence is “Clarrie” Ives, the Rugby League
forward, who is an international “cap.” Like
most of the men recruited from football, Ives
features long driving. lie attained the
crowning glory the other day when he holed
in one at Roseville. It was a shot of 176
yards from tee to pin.
* * * *
“Tariff”: The Ivooyonga people are doing
nothing unusual in boring deep on the
Adelaide plains for water for their greens
and fairways (B. l/2/’2S). The Royal
Adelaide some years ago put down a bore
on its links at Seaton and struck good water
at 335 ft.; this saved the greens in the 1914
drought. And St. Peter’s College uses bore-
water for its swimming bath and cricket oval.
* * * *
“Spoon”: A recent English review of the
leading professional golfers places C. E.
HE MIGHT CHANCE ANYTHING.
DISOUSTER OPPONENT: “I say, Flukes, how about the loan of a fiver? You’re having
such luck lately that it’s quite likely I’d pay it back.”
Whitcombe at the head of the division for
5927. This was the result of an analysis
t j ie figures for the professional tourna
mpnts 0 f first-class importance, 11 in all.
Whitcombe won three and was runner-up in
two . llis ave rage for 34 rounds works out at
73 3134 per full round of 18 holes. The ten
i ea ding professionals averaged from 75J
s t r okes per round for the season. George Dun-
oan ig on t fi e fi stj with the veteran J.
raid ] ast The extraordinary consistency
o{ the fiigii-class professionals is almost as
c i ear i y mar ked in golf as in billiards,
„ * * *
..
“Ploughman : The average golfer, often
particular as to his plus-fours, Ins jazz
sweater and his make of ball, is apt to be
negligent about his clubs. It is quite a
common thing to find m the bags ot even
good players a proportion of clubs of en-
tirely different pitches of face. In Ins book
on the game, George Duncan condemns this
carelessness, and cites an instance where a
player came to him for advice as to his
inconsistent play. The chap shaped fairly
well in most particulars, so Duncan had a
look at his clubs. The inconsistent one was
using a driver with an upright lie, a brassey
with a medium and a spoon with a flat lie,
while the irons were not matched as to
weight or balance. There is little excuse for
this sort of thing in these days when makers,
especially the Americans, standardise their
clubs so rigidly. The matter is worth the
attention of every golfer. Many will be sur-
prised to find what a difference attention to
this particular detail will make in their play.
The Ins and Outs
“Flinders” : Blackie has done great things
in Sheffield Shield cricket this season. His
31 wickets at 22.22 were really a more
important factor in Victoria’s outstanding
success than the batting of either Woodruff
or I’onsford, who averaged 129 and 152.12
respectively. Of the six matches played the
Victorians lost two on the first innings •
the second games against N.S.W. and Queens-
land. The remaining four they won out-
right, finishing with 18 points. South Aus.
last year’s holders of the Shield, was a good
second with 12 points, and N.S.W. was
third with 11 points. The Ma State was
lucky to be in that position, for Queens-
land, which took the wooden spoon, with
7 points, gained a moral victory over the
Welshmen at the Sydney Cricket Ground,
when only time and a lot of luck saved the
game for the home team.
“Der Jong” : The fifth Test match between
South Africa and England resulted in a
clear-cut victory for the home team at
Durban, the Afrikanders having S wickets in
hand. This left each side with two wins, one
match being drawn. As the local men had
a bit the best of this, the rubber is con-
sidered to have gone to them. Bissett took
7 for 29 in England’s second knock. The
English side included most of the Australian
possibilities, and their showing does not sug-
gest that they are world-beaters.
% * * ' . *
“Lansdowne”: “The present cricket sea-
son,” the S. M. Hekald assures us editor-
ially, “has been noteworthy for colossal scores.
Records have gone by the board and cen-
turies have been almost commonplace achieve-
ments. Evidently Australia’s batting
strength leaves nothing to be desired.” But
is such a conclusion so darned evident? An
alternative deduction would be that Aus-
tralia’s bowling strength leaves everytmn o
to be desired. Possibly the truth is some-
where midway between the two propositions,
the huge harvest of runs that lias been
reaped suggests mediocre bowling as well as
excellent batting. In comparison the scoring
in the matches played by the M.G.G. tean
in South Africa has been pleasantly moder-
ate. But nobody would find in this a reason
for suggesting that men like Sutcliffe, Ham-
mond and Tyldesley are in a class below that
of Ponsford, Woodfull and Ivippax.
* * * *
“The Rabbit” : Members of the Australian
team to tour Maoriland went a bit sour on
an intimation from the Board of Control
that only 10s. per day of their 15s cash
allowance will be paid to them while on
tour A famous Australian footballer once
toured the Dominion with an initial capital
of 3d. —exhibited and confessed on the wharf
in Sydney before he started. And, like
all his team-mates, he did not get a bean in
the way of pocket-money save what he could
provide himself. I suppose it’s old-fashioned
to say so, but I can’t help thinking that one
got a lot more fun out of snort in those
absolutely amateur days. And I can t help
recalling that sportsmen who left Australia
about the end of 1914, and kept on doing so
for a long time after, didn’t squeal because
some of their pay was held back.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: The receipts of some of the
big Vic. football clubs are calculated to
turn the N.S.W. Rugby League green with
envy. Geelong’s balance-sheet for the past
season shows a revenue of £8282. Ex-
penditure, it is true, was nearly a thousand
more, but £2311 was spent in sewering the
club’s premises, and £lO9B was owing to
the club by the Brownlow-Young memorial
stand fund. Members’ subscriptions brought
in £2OOO, and proceeds of matches at Gee-
long £3075, while profits from special trains,
run to let Geelong people see their pets at
work on Melbourne grounds, were £648.
Payments to players reached the comfortable
sum of £1659. The club owns an elabo-
rately-equipped ground and other assets, and
since no reference to interest appears among
the liabilities it must be fairly rolling in
riches.
* * * *
“Old Blue” : A football club of some ton-
nage is Carlton. Its membership has reached
7200 —surely a record for any individual
club, not excepting the Marylebone C. C.,
which draws its members from all over the
world, whereas Carlton’s come from a single
Australian city. Gate receipts and member-
ship tickets brought in £5082 last year, and
“gates” would have been higher but for bad
weather affecting the attendances at several
big games. The amount received from all
sources was £6894 18s. 6d. Actual players
were promised £3 10s. a match and emer-
gencies £1 15s. A bonus of £2 10s. per
match was added, bringing the leather-
chaser’s reward for each game up to. £o;
in addition, they were all given a trip to
Sydney, which cost the club £640. And then
there was a credit balance of £5lB 10s. 4d.
Many a business enterprise would like to be
in the same pleasant case.
* * * *
“Gate”: The English Rugby League foot-
ball team is due in Sydney on May 21.
It will go on to Maoriland at the end of
July, after playing in N.S.W. and Queens-
land, and return to England via Canada.
The managers are both Lancashire lads; E.
Osborne, the team manager, was one Of the
pair in charge of the 1924 team. A War-
rington man, he is a noted diplomat m
League circles, and is expected to have the
handing out of the explanations as to why
his league so flagrantly broke its promise
with regard to hiring Australian players.
Ilis co-manager is G. F. Hutchins, an Old-
ham engineer. Both have represented their
various clubs as delegates and League
Officials for years.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.” : One of the Waratahs has
decided to stay in England : Greatorex, the
breakaway forward, is to join the staff of the
London Evening Standard —he is a journa-
list—and will play for Blackheath. His
decision raises rather a fine technical point
in regard to the Rugby Union’s laws of
amateurism. Sub-section A of the Union’s
“Rules as to Professionalism” says that an
act of professionalism is committed by any
individual “asking, receiving or relying on a
promise, express or implied, to receive any
money consideration whatever, actual or
prospective, any employment or advancement,
any establishment in business, or any com-
pensation whatever” for playing football.
I don’t suggest that Greatorex comes within
the category—the young man refused a
tempting cash offer, as well as a newspaper
job, from the Rugby League—but the in-
stance is quoted to show how impossible it
is for the genuine amateur to avoid the
occasional appearance of professionalism
under the chaotic set of rules on the sub-
ject which at present are supposed to govern
sport.
(Continued on page 38.)


L|QUEU b
K*.
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow
Shipped by
WM. GRANT & SONS. LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm of Scotch Whisky Distillers.
VICHY
m
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Car and Cycle
“Talmat”: Collecting at random over the
last few months I have discovered 202
different makes of motor-cars on the roads
in and around Melbourne—62 British, 69
American, 70 European and one Australian
(the Hands). This is exclusive of sundry
nondescripts.
* ‘ * * *
“Hotham”: The Vic. Light-car Club is
starting something unusual in Australian
motoring with a 100-miles road race to be
held in March on Phillip Island. The
course is a circuit of about seven miles, with
varying types of road, and the competitors
will be divided into four classes: to 750 c.c.,
to 1100 c.c., to 1500 c.c., and to 2000 c.c.
A championship cup will be given for the
fastest time in any class, while first and
second in each class will receive trophies.
Drivers cannot be changed during the race,
and a mechanic must be carried. Cars may
be stripped and tyres must be Australian
made.
* * * *
“Trembler”: Something worth striving for
is Sir Charles Wakefield’s motor speed prize,
open to motorists of all nationalities. There
is a gold pot worth a thousand of the best,
to begin with, and for two years or so the
winning driver is to be paid at the rate of
£lOOO p.a. so long as he is unbeaten. The
trophy is to remain the property of the Inter-
national Association of Automobile Clubs in
the country to which the driver belongs; he
himself will receive a miniature replica of
the pot, in addition to the cash. The first
go for the trophy will be the great speed
race at Daytona Beach.
❖ s{t 'V'
“Whizz”: Malcolm Campbell, who is to
defend the world’s motor speed title, won for
Britain at Daytona Beach, U.S.A., by Major
Scgrave, took his new car to America fully
assembled, so as to let no details of its con-
struction leak out. For the same reason, a
full complement of British mechanics was
shipped. The car is said to develop 450 h.p.,
and the engine took three years to build.
The horse-power sounds small, but the speed
efficiency does not necessarily depend on thi3
factor. The'Yankees, for instance, are put-
ting up one car of 15.00 h.p. against the de-
fender, but Carripbell is confident that his
comparatively small ’bus will be able to hold
its own. ' There is a wide difference between
the new "clefender and Major Segrave’s. The
latter had two Coatalen aeroplane engines,
and no secret was made about it. The
Campbell car is a mystery. One can only
hope that it will not turn out as most mys-
teries do.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The curtain has been rung
down on the “Fatty” Lamb controversy. The
Victorian amateur champion road-cyclist and
pace-follower, who was refused recognition
as an Olympic candidate by a section of
the Australian Cyclists’ Union, though the
lad is undoubtedly in the very first flight of
the world’s cyclists, has turned professional.
His quality is emphasised in the statement
that the Melbourne promoter who induced
him to go over is paying him £5OO as a
retainer. Lamb had previously refused hand-
some offers, having set his heart on repre-
senting Australia* at Amsterdam, but the
action of the cabal which engineered the
motion refusing him nomination as an Olym-
pic candidate left him no other world to
conquer as an amateur. The incident is no
credit to the administration of amateur
cycling in Victoria. Apparently Lamb has
been driven out because he wasn’t prepared to
crawl to the little tin gods of the game.
Miscellaneous
“Billy the Goose” : I’m scribblin’ these few
lines on the boat, the Johns ’avin’ worded
me ter ’op it. I ain’t rousin’, f’r I done
so well I’m payin’ me passage this time-y-
-steerage, o’ course, but I'm writin’ this in
the firs’ clarse till the bloke comes roun’ f’r
the tickets. Yer’ll see I made a success o’
the goats publicity biz, but the trouble was
I carried me enthoosiasm too far. I was a
bit late gettin’ out ter the meet, an’ the jam
at the gates ’eld me up. They was about
25,000 ahead o’ me. I c’dn’t stan’ by an’
see them pore suff’rin’ females bein’ squashed,
so I pulls one old girl wot’s done a flop
outer the crowd and was givin’ ’er firs’-aid
w’en a cow uv a cop comes at me. Strike
me pink if ’e wasn’t a Queenslander, too.
’E spotted me, dinky di. F’r the sake uv
ole times ’e let me slip if I’d catch the
uex’ boat, so that’s that. But watch out fer
me nex’ lurk. I’m training Scotch terriers
ter chase w’iskey corks.
* > * “ * *
“Thorndyke” : In these days the owner of
even a mug greyhound can get some sort of
a living out of his tyke. But there is money
in other breeds of dogs as well, and I am not
referring to atrocities of the Pom and Chow
varieties either. An English gamekeeper,
thrown out of a job through a gun accident,
earns a good bit in the London suburb in
which he now lives by finding lost articles
with the help of a setter. Keeper and dog
go over the route taken by the loser of the
article, the bitch quartering the ground as
if searching for game. More than that,
she goes out on her own. and often brings
back something special in the way of dropped
wallets. The man who owns a dog like
that need never worry about the tin hares,
or even set up as an urger at the ponies.
* * * *
“Blade” : The N.S.W. crew to row for the
King’s .Cup has been approved by the Stare
authorities, so Mosman’s direct-action man-
oeuvre has failed. However, two Mosman
men, Windin and Mitchell, go in as 3 and
4 ; George Mackenzie, of the Sydney club, will
stroke the crew. It is not good for the sport
that one club should be predominant in these
matters. The selection committee’s attitude
should be welcomed by everyone who wishes
to see the standard of N.S.W. rowing
improved.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury” : After all. an Australian is
not to have the honor of stroking the
Oxford crew this year, for Morphett, of Gee-
long, who was chosen when Llewellyn re-
tired through illness, has been relegated
to the reserves. McCulloch, of Sydney Uni.,
has also been dropped, though he has been
regularly boated with the crew since it was
got together.
* * * *
“Blade”: The curtain seems to have been
rung down on the charge of professionalism
brought against Pearce, Australia’s champion
amateur sculler and Olympic representative,
by an anonymous writer, a charge that
should never have been considered by those
in authority. The young sculler has been
nominated to represent N.S.W. in the Aus-
tralian sculling championship in May, and
on present form should have little trouble
in hanging on to his title.
* * * *
“Scull”: The recent victory of young
Albert Barry in the match for the world’s
sculling championship at Vancouver has
apparently stirred the imagination of English
sportsmen in regard to a sport which had its
origin in England. Lord Decies has headed
a movement to find Barry’s stake-money for
the return match with Goodsell, and another
titled person is furnishing him with a new
shell and oars. When Barry set out to chal-
lenge the Australian the first time it took
a press campaign and a lot of urging to
get money enough to send him to Vancouver.
The change of heart is all to the good.
Sculling, properly supervised, is one of the
finest sports.
“Swivel”: Barry, according to his own
statement, got a mere £4O out of his victorious
race with Goodsell. He had to sell his shell
and sculls before he could return to Britain.
The fact is that few scullers in the profes-
sional ranks have ever made much at the
game. One or two, perhaps, but they were
early-day men, when the game was in the
boom and betting was heavy. Barry’s uncle
could have told him that there is little profit
in being a world’s champion. Still, much
LEO O’CONNOR, the Queensland cricket
captain, whose batting and wicket-
keeping have been among the chief
assets of his side for some seasons past.
depends on the championship a fellow picks.
Dempsey, I suppose, in spite of a damaged
eye and a moving-picture missus, is fairly
satisfied with life in general. And the great
amateurs of tennis and cricket do rather
well.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: Elliot Giles, of Melbourne
Grammar School, brought his 37-ton yawl.
Utiekah 111., to her moorings at Williams-
town (Vic.) the other day after a voyage
of 8200 miles about the Pacific. Giles i 3 an
inveterate deep-sea yachtsman who started
with short cruises out of the Port Adelaide
river. When he found himself off Port
Phillip Heads with still a month of holidays
to go lie made for the Speck, where he
cracked a nut not hitherto attempted by
yachtsmen by negotiating the passage into
Fort Davey. His first business after he had
shaken hands with his Melbourne friends
was to get Utiekah ready for week-end
cruises.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The Victorian opposi-
tion to the reinstatement of Dick Eve has
not lost its point by time. Some two years
ago Eve became manager of Manly (N.S.W.)
baths. This made him a professional under
an idiotic rule which prevails in Australia
only. After several abortive attempts to
get the rule altered, a postal vote was
taken; tlifls resulted in a negative verdict,
the necessary two-thirds majority not being
secured. At the conference of the Australian
BOUSSUS, the youngest member of the
trio of French tennis players now in
Australia.
Amateur Swimming Union held last week
in Sydney, Leslie Duff, the N.S.W. secre-
tary, moved that the rule be amended so that
Eve might be declared an amateur without
any more fuss. The Victorians secured an
adjournment of the matter until another
postal vote could be taken. Eve is, out-
standingly, the finest diver Australia has
produced, and but for an idiotic regulation
he would be a certain choice for the Olympic
team to visit Amsterdam. Persistence in a
foolish objection to the removal of an arti-
ficial barrier is an injustice to a genuine
amateur and a waste of valuable time.
* «!• *
“Heine Schprintz”: There is a striking
contrast between the German method of pre-
paring for the Amsterdam contests and the
lackadaisical fashion in which our own!
Olympic authorities approach the subject.
For over 12 months the Germans have been
holding elimination tests, the duty of as-
sembling and looking after the athletes hav-
ing been imposed on the municipalities of the
various German States. Every section of
the Games is being invaded. The women’s
contingent alone numbers 276, which should
turn the Sydney flapper press green with
envy. There will be 65 men for the athletic
events, including such exceptionally good
runners as Peltzer and Houben, while there
will be 40 entrants for the swimming events.
Rowing, in which Germany has never
attained any great ehainence, is to be tackled,
too. Tom Sullivan, the old-time Maoriland
oarsman, is coaching the selected crew.
* * * ❖
“Full Choke”: Several press cablegrams
have lately been devoted to chronicling the
feats of Australian trap-shooters at Monte
Carlo, one of the few strongholds of pigeon-
murdering left in Europe. Even America,
where bootleggers and aldermen can be bul-
leted with popular approval, has shut down
on pigeon-shooting, and it is high time Aus-
tralia squelched the so-called sport. It can’t
even be argued that the beastly business
improves the breed of shooters. With a wide
experience of game-shooting with a shotgun,
I hereby affirm that the average trap shot
is an absolute dud when it comes to bringing
down such birds as a wild duck on the
wing. And the game has a rotten reputa-
tion from a gambling point of view. Anyone
who has had the experience of trying to
make money by backing one barrel or the
other at a shoot where the Tommies are
operating and some of the leading heads are
on the mark will know what I mean. It is
ridiculous to prosecute an amusement enter-
prise for racing goats, as has been done in
Sydney, while permitting the cruelty of
pigeon-shooting to continue.
H* Hs 3{*
“Sancho”: “Minto” (B. l/2/’2B) mentions
a trot of IS heads in an organised two-up
school. At the five-mile camp on the Glen-
reagh-Dorrigo (N.S.W.) railway construc-
tion I saw a Maltese head ’em 21 times and
win £9. It happened to be a Sunday between
fortnightly pays; such a trot a week, later
would have brought him in £4OO at least.
Business, Robbery, etc.
"P.X.”: N.S.W. Judge Curlewis is re-
ported to have said that if a clerk stole
£5O of his employer’s money and put it on
a horse at tens, and the horse won, the £5OO
would belong to the employer. This ought
to make employers feel a lot safer. All
they have to do now is to circulate a copy
of this opinion among all clerks and others
handling money, and, of course, there won't
be any more embezzlements. It obviously
won't be worth while if the winnings belong
to the boss, will it?
* * * *
“Eureka”: In our street, a comparatively
short one, there is a constant stream of
tradesmen’s carts. To-day I counted five
bakers, six milkmen, four grocerymen, 11
greengrocers (as well as a number of men
with baskets of fruit), three icemen and four
wood-and-coal men. This is one of the
reasons for the high cost of living.
* * * *
“W.1.U.”: A difference of many ounces
per ton in silver was noted between the
return of the assayers of a Broken Hill
mine and that of the ore-buyers. Assays
were checked and rechecked with the same
different results, and then, after much pon-
dering and experimenting, it was discovered
that the difference was due to a little rust
on the minute weights used on one of the
scales. These are so delicate that a fly speck
will gum up the works.
♦ ♦ He ♦
“C.Q.” : A use is being found for at least
some of the mining gear that is mouldering
away in Victoria. A steel poppet-head
from a goldmine at Bendigo has been erected
on Mount Donna Buang, in the Dandenongs,
the sharp hillock which looks as if it had
been poured out of an hour-glass. It will
serve the dual purpose of providing tourists
with one of the finest panoramic views in
Australia and the Forests Commission with
a fire lookout which will command the Alps
and the Baw-Baws, and even the You-Yangs
on the hither side of Melbourne.
* * *
“Tariff”: This gem relieved the monotony
of wading through a pile of official forms
the other day. On the form of application
to register motor vehicles in Adelaide one
question to be answered is headed “seating
capacity.” On coming to an application by
a well-known city firm of undertakers to
register a new Hudson hearse, I found that
they had filled it in as “two in the front seat
and one in the box.” I put it down in the
register as three.
* * * *
“Seno” : I do not know whether it is ultra-
conservatism or just that the agents for
typewriters haven’t discovered the London
G.P.0., but the officials who are responsible
for the compiling of international postal
cheque and money-order listings—often 12
or more pages, and sent to every corner of
the globe weekly—still remain faithful to the
ink-bottle and quills of their forefathers.
* * * *
“Clerk”: Canada now has the biggest loco-
motive in the Empire, a 300-ton leviathan
having just been placed in running. Th*
squat monster has a total length of 82
feet, a working pressure of 2501 b. to the
square inch, a heating surface of 4256 square
feet and a tractive effort of 69,7001 b. Th ■
capacity of its tender is 20 tons of coal and
11,300 imp. gallons of water. It is the
first of 40 such mammoths, designed for both
passenger and fast-freight service. All are
being constructed in the country.
* * * *
“Bill Ding”: We can learn something
from the packages of other countries even
if their contents could be, and often are.
better grown in our own country (B.
26/l/’2B). Californian lumber magnates
tickle the palate of some of their Australian
customers with elaborate assortments of dried
fruits at Christmas time. These are packed in
finely-fitted redwood trays, in a sort of
duchesse chest, so that when the contents
have been consumed someone in the house-
hold has a useful and ornamental trinket
cabinet. The fruits comprise prunes, figs,
dates, pineapples and all sorts of nuts
arrayed in multi-colored papers. The best
that many an Australian sawmiller can do
to mark the festive season is to send his
customer a last appeal for payment of his
account, so that lie can keep the overdraft
from biting his heels.
* * * *
“Takapuna”: Maoriland stock-breeders
who cater for the overseas meat markets ar
interested in a new method of canning meat,
which the Department of Scientific and
Industrial Research .estimates will save the
Dominion industry from £30,000 to £40,000
a year. Sodium nitrate is the basis of the
new process, and is much speedier than the
old brine-saltpetre method of preliminary
pickling. The beef extract can be used for
preparing pig and poultry feed; under the
old process this w r as impossible, because of
the saltiness of the extract. The standard
of quality and the color of the meat are also
improved.


FRICTION becomes fiction —
when you fit these British Bear-
ings. Unfailing reliability, year in,
year out, has gained for them the
patronage of over 80 per cent, of
British Motor - car Manufacturers.
Made in all sizes to fit British,
American, and Continental Cars.
Exclusive Commonwealth Agents and Distributors —■
GARDNER, WAERN S CO. PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE: 481 Flinders Street. SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: Hunter Street West.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: ADELAIDE HARDWARE 00*. Flinders St., ADELAIDE.
TASMANIAN AGENTS: W. and G. GENDERS PTY., LTD., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: EVANS, DEAKIN AND CO., LTD., BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE.
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: (Automotive), COVENTRY MOTOR CO., LTD., PERTH.
(Industrial), FLOWER, DAVIES, & JOHNSON, LTD., PERTH.
fg
BUY BRITISH BEAMNGS
□
Books Worth While
PRACTICAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION. Hand-
book designed as a Book of reference for Persons
Engaged in Building. By JOHN P. ALLAN . .
SHEET- AND PLATE-METAL WORK. For the
use of Boilermakers, Braziers, Coppersmiths,
Ironworkers, Plumbers, Tinsmiths, etc. By E.
ATKINS
PLUMBING. Practical Handbook by E. G. BLAKE.
In 2 Vols. Vol. I: House Drainage, Lead Laying,
Gutters, etc. Vol. II.: Domestic Hot-Water Instal-
lations, Sanitary Appliances, etc Set
METAL-PLATE WORKERS’ WORKSHOP COM-
PANION. Manual of Workshop Practice. By
FRANCIS TURNER
CONCRETE AND PRODUCTS AND CAST
STONE. Manufacture and uses. By H. CHILDE
SKETCHING IN WATER-COLORS. Book for
Amateurs. By J. STEWART
GAS AND OIL ENGINES. Running and Main-
tenance. By Peter CALDWELL
PRICE. POST.
10/- 1/3
9/- -/10
16/- 1/3
8/6 -/6
6/6 -/6
4/6 -/6
. 4/6 -/6
NEW 15th EDITION —A NEW AND GREATER
DYKE’S AUTOMOBILE
AND GASOLINE
ENGINE
ENCYCLOPEDIA
1271 pages covering all classes of automobile information.
4300 Pictures, Plans, Diagrams and Charts.
1 5,000 lines of Index, by which you can instantly locate any subject you want.
A new section of "Trouble Shooting" Charts in colors, to enable you to
quickly locate any major or minor trouble on any car.
Special instructions on testing and adjusting every part of the automobile.
Specifications of Gasoline Passenger Cars, Trucks and Tractors.
Specifications for Replacements, Accessories, Interchangeable Parts an
Large Chart, which shows the working principles of
the Automobile. , ™
Large Charts showing the working principles of Trucks and 1 ractors.
Every Car User
Every Car Owner
Every Repairman
Every Auto Salesman
Every Auto Instructor
Needs This Book!
Price 30/- Posted 31/6
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
Bookstall Comer, CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
for the Country Home!
t
! '
w
ns
DELCO-LIGHT
Electric Lighting & Power
FRIGIDAIRE Electric Refrigeration and Delco-
Light are two great modern conveniences made
and guaranteed' by Delco-Light Company, a
subsidiary of General Motors Corporation.
This fact offers you the satisfaction that comes from
great financial strength, vast buying power, engi-
neering skill and the knowledge of quantity pro-
duction.
DELCO-LIGHT is a complete power plant de-
signed to furnish light and power where electricity
would not otherwise be available. It is easy to
install, needs little attention and will give you
efficient service throughout the twenty-four hours
of the day. Delco-Light consists of an engine, electric
generator and switchboard built as a compact unit
—it places within your reach electric light and
power, running water, electric refrigeration, at a
price incomparably low with the importance of the
service!
FRIGIDAIRE ELECTRIC REFRIGERATION
means continuous, dependable, economical refriger-
ation.
Frigidaire is a tried and proven product it
occupies a unique position in the household a 3
guardian of food supplies. With it, perishable
fruits, raw and cooked meats, butter, milk,
vegetables, can be kept in perfect condition for
long lengths of time —and there is always a fresh
supply of sparkling ice cubes ready for your use.
Type S.D.L. Tudor Batteries are used exclusively
with Delco-Light.
Why not enjoy the advantages of Frigidaire or Delco-Light—or
hothf Write to us for free descriptive Booklet B and full
particulars.
FRIGIDAIRE
Electric Refrigeration
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.—
307-15 Kent Street, Sydney
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD—
-380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD—
-233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD.—
172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide
STEWART & MACLEAN PTY., LTD.—
104 George Street, Launceston


Under
Royal
.Warrant
35S2&
To H.M.
GeorgeV
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
CharlesTleidsieck
Bin s
Australasian Agents—
Swift fe Company Limited
SYDNEY.
tfgjSmSS*
SWI3H
■Np3KpPII S3 i-retn
3 KOVdWVMa
PELUSSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrerta
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Gable Address —
“Mum,” Sydney.
Wire accommodation.
HtilfeL
EXCLUSIVE - - QUIET
and with reasonable rates.
TARIFF:
Inclusive Board from.. 2 7/6
With bath from 30/-
Rooms with Breakfast from 20/
CUISINE, COMFORT AND
SERVICE UNPARALLELED.
Hot and Cold Running Water
and Telephones in every room.
Private Suites de Luxe.
Sydney’s Most Spacious Lounge.
Attached is the Famous Wentworth Cafe: Dancing Afternoon and Night.
ADDRESS: LANG STREET, SYDNEY.
fid
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up
to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining 7.30,
12/6. Supper 10 p.m. till 1 a.m., 10/6.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 7.30 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.15 p.m.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret afternoon and evening.
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 5, 4/*;
parties of 6 upwards, 3/6.
Saturdays and holidays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M 3666.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY-
KAYSER
SLIPPER HEE
[?]
STOCKINGS
Whatever imposing function lies in wait
for the new Agent-General’s lady in London,
she can carry iier head as high as the best,
for within her will be the prideful know-
ledge that she is Sydney’s Women Painters’
Queen. With a splendid total of 10,000 votes
George Fuller’s helpmate topped the poll
in the contest that is to provide a scholar-
ship and new furnishings for the club in the
Queen Victoria Buildings. In regal attire
of squirrel-grey georgette with a long silver
lamd train, topped by a diamond tiara, the
Queen took her place on the dais, while
grouped about her as maids of honor were the
ten competitors “placed.” President of the
society Ethel Stephen understudied his Arch-
gaiters of Canterbury with nonchalant ease
and fitted an imposing crown of pearls and
sapphires on the Queen’s head. With the
crown went a picture from the clever brush of
Mrs. Hedley Parsons and a diamond ring
which the Auxiliary had lured from Stewart
Dawson. Mrs. Ilyman and Mrs. William
Francis hostessed with efficiency and dispatch
in place of the bereaved Mrs. George Taylor.
This lady, however, deserves a medal from
tne Royal Life Saving Society, for her timely
present of a fan apiece saved many of the
guests from a watery grave that steamy
afternoon. Josephine Marks was responsible
for the afternoon’s pageant and its accom-
panying musical programme.
The Melbourne took her last farewell of
Sydney harbor last week on a typical Febru-
ary morning. Convoying her to England
and the ship-breakers are Commodore Hyde
and 600 men who will be divided up between
the new flagship Australia and the cruiser
Canberra. The doomed warship lias seen
but 15 summers. As she sailed from Farm
Cove groups of the girls they left behind
waved farewell to the sailors aboard. If all
the hankies waved from the Man-o’-War Steps
and Mrs. Macquarie’s Chair could have been
pinned together they would have outdistanced
in length the white paying-off pennant of
over 300 ft. that fluttered from the Mel-
bourne’s masthead.
George Bosch, who has passed over a cool
£27,000 to the University, is one of the
founders of the well-known Bosch, Bartliel
firm. He has always taken a deep interest
in the welfare of the medical school, and
not only gave £2OOO to establish a fellow-
ship in cancer research but helped Johnny
Hunter and Dr. Royle with £lOOO when they
were exploring the human nervous system.
His latest gift—£2s,ooo of it, rather —will
endow a Chair of Embryology and Histo-
logy.
When Dame Margaret Davidson reigned at
Government House every charity ball com-
mittee had the freedom of the big ballroom
for its initial meeting; there was a feeling
among canny organisers that this bucked up
subscriptions. Although Lady de Chair has
never made a practice of lending her rooms
for organising purposes, the other day all the
Consuls and their ladies were bidden to the
big house to a dish of tea and a preliminary
chat over the International Ball. This, of
course, is a money-spinner for the League of
Nations Union, and hardly comes under the
heading of a charity ball. Padre A. IF.
Garnsey, who is president of the league of
Nations Union, sounded the tocsin, and all
available nations, even to Costa Rica, swore
to help through their envoys. The wife of
the Greek Consul-General and the Consul-
General for the Netherlands comprise the
management committee.
There will be a diamond wedding celebra-
tion for George Judah Cohen and his wife
this month; it was in 1808 that the
daughter of the FFon. L. W. Levy linked her
life with that of the man whose name has
come to suggest Money with a capital M.
The whole clan basks in affluence. George
Judah himself did without an extra fortune
which was left to him and another nephew
by uncle David Lewis, of Liverpool, Eng-
land. The money involved in that bequest
has been used for charitable purposes in
the north of England.
Brains as well as good looks were fitted
snugly beneath the old rose-point veil worn
by Aileen Mayne, a Rose Bay bud and gradu-
ate of Sydney Uni., who became Mrs George
Woodhouse at St. John’s, Darlinghurst, last
week. After the bride’s tulle and georgette
stepped Muriel Martin and Elaine Shepherd-
sou, one in pink and the other in yellow of
the palest tones. Those frocks bloomed into
an effective border of blue and pink flowers,
the same being admired both in the church
and at the Ambassadors, where the bride’s
parents did the handsome thing by the wed-
ding guests.
The Society of Australian Composers and
Authors has shaken off the sluggishness that
beset its early progress, and is now deter-
mined to make itself a force in the com-
munity. Its main object is to encourage
the production of works by our own com-
posers and authors. It plans to obtain the
fullest publicity for Australian productions,
and to ask visiting celebrities to include at
least one Australian item in each programme
-—very sound ideas. The notion that Aus-
tralian-made in art should be shoved into
outer darkness has persisted too long. It
is also li'gh time that visiting artists who
stagger from our shores laden with our gold
should do something to help the local
musician and playwright. An example of
a Sydney composer’s success in London
is that of Roy Agnew. Publishers are now
asking him for his work. Listcners-in about
midnight last week were thrilled to hear Roy,
in London, broadcasting some of his own
Preludes.
Brian O’Reilly, a son of Dowell O’Reilly,
who was one of Australia’s finest prose-
writers, is coming back to Sydney a fully;
fledged artist. Three years ago Dowell's
widow took her stepson to England to study
art, and Brian’s first year was put in at
the Royal College of Art in Edinburgh.
Afterwards in London, the Goldsmiths’ Col-
lege at New Cross and the Polytechnic
School of Art found him one of their most
ardent students. Paris put a finishing touch
on his work. The young man returns with a
collection of sketches that he made in the
Scottish Highlands, in Devon, Cornwall, and
in France.
Admirers of Dowell O’Reilly will bo
pleased to learn that Mrs. O’Reilly has
made a selection of her husband’s letters.
These have been published by Simpkin
Marshall, under the title: “Dowell O'Reilly
from His Letters.” The volume will shortly
be on sab; at Angus and Robertson’s.
Two charming young women who talked
at the Feminist Club the other afternoon
proved once more that one half the world
doesn’t know how the other half lives. The
ladies, Miss de Labillier and Grace Sims,
are church envoys for the Bush Church Aid
Society, which concerns itself particularly
with the spiritual comfort of the out-backs.
These modern sisters of St. John travel into
the wilderness in a motor-van that is stocked
with Bibles and prayer-books, and also con-
tains an organ, simple medical supplies and
provisions. The organ comes in useful in
districts where a church service is unknown.
Around the van a little company will gather,
and with the hills or rolling plain for back-
ground sing the hymns and pray the prayers
they learned in childhood. The caravanners
are expert motor mechanics. One of the
objects of their round of calls is to foster
interest in a correspondence-course Sunday-
school.
Dora Jaret, the paintable-looking girl in
this May Moore picture, is one of the prime
movers in
Sydney’s new
Five Arts
Club. Dora
draws with a
cleanness o f
line and has a
boldness of
design that
place her in
the very front
rank of the
younger
artists. She
won the inter-
state travel-
1i n g scholar-
ship out of
Datt i 1 o
R u b b o ’s
classes this
year, h a s
already more
comm e r c i a 1
work than she
ean get through, and next month is on
her way to Europe for further study and
experience.
Wilga (Budge) Synge, daughter of the
late IF. M. Synges, of Dubbo, and a grand-
daughter of Mrs. A. M. Gill, of Bondi, whis-
pered her “I wills” at St. John’s, Darling-
hurst, last week from a souffld of white tulle
which stretched, like the beaten-up whites of
innumerable eggs, into a froth of train after
the crystallised white georgettes that formed
the brown-haired bride’s dress. The ’groom
was Kenneth Laurie, of Boree, Walcha.
Three attendants formed a rosy background
for the principal, while padre C. A. Lucas
fashioned the link that binds. The sub-
sequent reception was held at the Bondi
home of the bride’s aunt, Mrs. Vyner.
Brisbane’s educational expert Freda Bage,
with journalist Winifred Moore and two
other Northerners of brain tonnage, passed
through Sydney last week on the return
motor trip which has taken them to Mt.
Buffalo and half over Victoria. They have
looked in at Canberra and have climbed out
of the chariot to cook mushrooms in full view
of Fitzroy Falls and to gather blackberries
on the South Coast highway. Previously
they had slipped into a mist like a woolly
white cloud after passing Sublime Point.
Miss Bage’s was the hand on the wheel
going and coming.
St. Clement's Church on Bradley's Head
was the matrimonial rendezvous chosen by
Rosalie Goodall. of Mosman, and Neville
Manning, of Darling Point. White georg
ettes, on which rhinestones glistened like
plump dewdrops, formed the wedding gar-
ment, which drew after it a moonlit wash of
tulle mounted on silver lame. The veil, a
beauteous thing of rose-point Brussels lace
lent by Mrs. Robert Wardlaw of Tas-
mania, was moored above the prettty face by
a coronet of pearls and diamonds. Two
maids in grass-green chiffons sparkling with
diamente even as a newly-sprinkled lawn
were in attendance. Bride's mother and
father beckoned the guests to the Warringah
Hall at Neutral Bay for the cheerio, and
here, though the electric lights failed, the
party refused to be downhearted, but carried
on till mystic midnight.
Joseph Luke Floury, who dreams along-
side, is the artist responsible for the deco-
rating of the oratory in the Apostolic Dele-
gation. Archbishop Cattaneo was so appre-
ciative of the
artistic value
both of this
work and that
in the Monte
St. Angelo
convent
chapel that lie.
commended
Mr. Fleury to
the Vatican,
with the re-
sult that the
Pope has con-
fer r e d the
“C ross pro
Ecclesia et
Pontifice” on
the clever Aus-
tralian. Mr.
Fleu r y, who
was born in
Tasmania, re-
ceived his art
education from
Julian Ashton in the 'nineties. He was a
member of the Victorian Art Society, and
had several paintings and sculptured pieces
in the 1918 exhibition. He specialises in
church decoration and Biblical art, and has
decorated several churches in Melbourne and
Sydney.
Sydney has still another club at which the
followers of the arts can foregather. It is
known as the Five Arts Club, and its
monthly pow-wows are held at the Women’s
Country Club rooms in Adams Building, 484
George-street. This is really a gesture of
independence by the young students of the
leading art schools in Sydney, and in their
train they have drawn devotees of literature,
drama, rhythm and music. Skull connoisseur
Radcliffe Brown is the new club’s president.
At the first meeting last week Arthur Murch,
an cx-Art in Australia scholarship-holder,
gave the most interesting discourse, though
the president let fall some words of wisdom,
and gentle old Bill Moore decanted some of
his experiences. The swell of the evening
was Philip Morton, in impressive swallow-
tails and white tie. The sub., incidentally,
is not prohibitive. It is 7s. 6d. a half-year.
The two blooming young Maoriland mer-
maids, Ena Stockley, from Christchurch,
and Kathleen Millar, from Dunedin, arc
jolly youngsters who frisk as easily in social
waters as in the vasty deep. Ena, the taller
one, was in Sydney two years ago, but this
is the Otago champion’s first visit to Aus-
tralia. In fact, when she is not queening
it over the waves she is just a schoolgirl
under her mother’s wing. At the welcome
party staged by the N.S.W. Ladies’ Swim-
ming Association at the Ambassadors on the
hottest afternoon of last week, Mrs. Millar
and her two charges looked as cool as the
waters of Lake Wakatipu, although the rich
red corpuscles of the South Island blood
probably thought quite heatedly about the
local mercury. Mrs. Herbert Field welcomed
the two girls in the name of all the clubs.
Ena Stocldey’s powder-blue frock harmon-
ised with Kathleen’s white georgettes, while
Mrs. Millar was impressive in black and
gold. Local champions Edna Davey, Jean
Cocks, Dorothy Hall, Fanny Durack (the
last two now Mrs. Harvey and Mrs. Gately)
and Mina Wylie were other notabilities
around the rose-decorated tables.
In a few years’ time Australians will not
need to travel to see soul-stirring examples
of ecclesiastical architecture and ornamen-
tation. Within the residence of the Apos-
tolic Delegate, Archbishop Cattaneo, there
is an oratory so exquisitely decorated that
experts claim its like can only be seen in
the Vatican. It is a study in rose pink,
ivory-white and gold. The ceiling centre-
piece is a painting of the Papal arms on a
sky-blue ground, with the Southern Cross
in silver. Around this are panels decorated
with the golden rose of the Vatican smiled
at from each corner by the waratah. The walls
are divided by eight pilasters in the Doric
style in white and gold supporting the frieze, in
the design of which are woven the Papal
rose and (emblematic of the Eucharist)
wheat and grapes. The woodwork of this
little chapel is in ivory-white with gold
beading. The windows and doors are draped
with deep-crimson curtains in the Italian
style, the carpet is of rich crimson pile, and
the stalls and prayer-stools are in walnut
cushioned with the same Papal red. The
oratory measures only 24ft. by 18ft. Yet
in its decoration nearly 2000 leaves of gold
have been used. Light is filtered down on
the whole through six opal-shaded globes
pendant on gold chains.
Isabel McDonagh (Marie Lorraine), the
acting one of the three Sydney sisters who
have successfully made and sold a film,
has come back engaged from a Melbourne
jaunt. The happy man is Frank Graham,
of Melbourne. Isabel is now playing lead in
the family's second production, “The Far
Paradise.”
A prepossessingly slimmer Elsie Prince
made her appearance in the revival of “Mer-
cenary Mary,” the last production in which
the lady will appear in Australia. Whatever
may have been the system adopted to check-
mate a tendency to plumpness, it has clearly
been a winner in this case. Another sparkle
in the show was the chestnut-haired Nelle
Dean, whose songs were rendered remark-
ably well. It is merely practice that has
improved her voice, for father George Dean
says that she was trained purely for dramatic
work and never had a lesson in singing.
Still George once had a pleasing voice him-
self; away with the Lionel Walsh co., he had
not seen his daughter in her musical comedy
role until last Saturday.
Something like a wave of war-time activity
swept over the State’s Red Crossers last
week when Brigadier-General H. B. Cham-
pain, the Secretary-General of the British
Red Cross, was doing his round of the State's
Red Cross wards and works. Local Red
Cross ’eads have been at the salute ever
since the General put his foot into the city,
and such establishments as Rose Flail, Gray-
thwaite and Bodington have flown their
best antimacassars for the inspection.
Strangely enough, Mrs. Champain has done
no Red Cross work, nor are the two daugh-
ters, Pamela and Audrey, members of the
Junior Red Cross. However, mother’s inter-
est lay with the St. John’s Ambulance in
India, and Pamela and Audrey serve the
Empire with the Girl Guides. The family
settled down in Persia while the General was
commanding the British force in the north
of that country. The idea behind the world
tour is to stimulate interest in the peace-time
activities of the Red Cross.
The Civic Commissioners and the Red
Cross combined in a welcome at the Town
Hall. This was timed for four, but by half-
past two a monster audience had already
packed the place to suffocation. Organist
Ernest Truman . and Pipe-Major Mac Kay
thundered and skirled over the assembly
for half an hour, and then the front of the
house up and sang such stirring soldier
songs of long ago as “Tipperary,” “The
Long, Long Trail” and “Pack Up Your
Troubles,” but never a bar of “Mademoiselle
from Armentibres.” At four o'clock in came
the General and his lady to applause that
shattered the atmosphere. Civic boss E.
P. Fleming, helped by his wife, did the
honors for the city of Sydney, while Russell
Sinclair and a detachment of V.A.’s and
Junior Red Crossers represented the society.
Ex-Chief Justice Cullen and the Jimmy Fair-
faxes, Miss Rose Piper, Miss Kate Egan,
Mrs. Cecil Hordern and Miss Macarthur
Onslow were among the staunch diehards
of the society around the visitor.
There is something very gripping to the
imagination in the Toe H movement. Born
of the desire to help youth amid the slaughter
of youth that was France in the World War,
its activities have spread till there is about
the Empire a ruby ring of its symbolic lamps.
In the darkened room of the Hamilton-street
headquarters the lamp burned brightly the
other afternoon when five new members
pledged themselves to the work of the Toe
II League of Women Helpers. The rooms,
which have been lent by Kelso King, were
crowded, as the occasion was a three-in-one.
It combined the second annual meeting, a
welcome to the knightly Meeks couple and
a farewell to Padre P. Leonard, who is
hurrying back to England to take a few
straws from the back of the greatly over-
burdened “Tubby” Clayton. Secretary
Nancy Norris read a heartening report con-
cerned with healthy finances, and new organ-
iser Frank Lamb was greeted with acclama-
tions, his record as a money-raiser for St.
Luke’s still being fresh in the minds of men.
Ella O’Shea is another well-known Bris-
baneite who is just now steaming in Sydney
instead of grilling further north.


Pearls n
Specialists in FINE PEARLS
PEARL NECKLACES
Largest Selection in Australasia.
Small Graduated Strands from £lO.
Larger Necklaces from £lOO to £5OOO.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
A selection of Loose Round Pearls of Finest
Quality is always maintained for Adding
to Customers’ own Necklaces.
Mail Inquiries receive Prompt
Attention.
Five per cent. Discount for Cash.
An experienced staff attends JL
to the Cleaning and Re- |Tj|
Stringing of PEARL >CJsI
Necklaces on . -
the premises.
: :'/v
WmDRUM MONDE CO.
THE HOUSE FOR FINE PEARLS
\ 344-346 COLLINS ST MELBOURNE
x
Remember those who
answered the
A
P
CD
K
SOLDIER 5
A ppEAt
For Diggers and Their
Dependants Help is
Needed.
There is a Pleasant Way
to Render it —
Come to the Carnival
in Martin Place.
Spend Joyously and
Bring Joy to Others.
All profits from Soldiers’ Day
Appeal go direct to the
United Returned Soldiers’
Fund.
Soldiers Day
c fri<Jcuj 24 Feb.
‘Buy aßuttou
A. SAUNDERS’
LATEST STYLES IN LADIES’ HAND BAGS
m
Morocco Grain Bunch Bag, with Mirror
and Pocket, Moire-lined.
Black, Brown, Fawn, Cham
pagne, Nigger.
Size <sx9 inches. Price .. .
10/6
hf
gh
fg
Plain Willow Calf Envelope Bag, S Flap,
Nicjtel Catch, Sliding Handle, Captive
Purse, Large Mirror, Moire-lined.
Nigger and Brown.
Size, 9 x 5i inches. Price ....
15 6
h
Genuine Colt Patent Leather Hand Bag,
Bibbed Envelope-shape, Mirror and Centre
Swing Purse, Grey. Moire-lined.
Black.
Size, 4J x 8 inches. Price.
17/6
SENT
POST
FREE
I>»*
Willow Calf Envelope Bag, trimmed with
Snake, Enamelled Clasp, Sliding Handle,
with Mirror and Captive Purse, Moire-
lined.
Brown.
Size, 51 x 9 inches. Price
201-
m
%
Willow Calf Envelope Bag, Enamelled
Clasp, Mirror and Captive Purse, Outside
and Back Pockets, Moire-lined.
Two-tone, Brown
Leather.
Size, 5i x 9 inches.
with
Price
Rose
25 1-
n
m
Genuine Morocco Pleated Bunch Bag,
Gold-edged, Pieced, Edged Tab, Moire-
lined, Double Centre Purse, Mirror,
Covered Frame.
Black, Blue, Brown, Fawn, Grey.
Size, 7i x 11 inches. Price ..
35/-
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE; IT’S FREE.
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker —Jeweller —Optician,
SO5-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Tested
and found true
THIS can be said of every Elgin,
whether of the wristlet or vest-
pocket variety. Twelve months have
been spent upon your Elgin—a whole
year of patient, painstaking craftsman-
ship—so, is it any wonder that Elgin
is conceded to be the world s standard
for watch integrity? •
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
c %lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
jfup < Jrade Mark
m
in the Watch Cape


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
UIN
■ m
wm\ j
m
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
■3b
m
*
' [(nexpeclec/
(jufesfa Qrrive —-1)
Ik
IP? V.
DELICIOUS
PLUM PUDDINGS
you need never feel that your table
lacks a desirable dish. Swallow and Ariell
have provided for the occasion! All you
need do is to be sure that your pantry is
never without at least ONE Plum Pudding
—those rich, fruity, flavorsome pud-
dings that Swallow and Ariell make—
and everyone enjoys. Ask your grocer.
Qeaduinamoment
" always hade
fg
in the home
it is so handu
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
Melbourne
Chatter
The ball arranged by the Lawn Tennis
Association of Australia in honor of the
French players at Ivooyong club-house on
Saturday night was a very gay and ornate
affair. The charming building, with its
piazza overlooking the courts, was dressed
up in pink roses and masses of belladonna
lilies and gladioli by Vera de Bavay. The
ballroom was a huge marquee, and supper
w r as also served under canvas. The night
was swelteringly hot, and the dance became
almost a garden party, the lawns and even
the courts being dotted with people who
strolled and chatted beneath fairy lights of
red and blue.
Polo is the latest craze of some society
girls who go a-hunting each season. Since
December they have practised in secret,
endeavoring to master the art of hitting the
little white ball at a gallop. Lately their
doings have been bruited abroad, and mere
males of the pink-coated brigade begged leave
to join the school. Their plea was granted,
and on a recent Saturday there was a prac-
tice match between mixed teams. The spot
chosen was a nice bit of flat on the Wood-
mason squattage at Oakleigh. Save for a
few relatives there was no gallery. Lorna
Enabling, who, like her mother, Mrs. E. T.
Enabling, never misses a meet, was the after-
noon’s umpire, a dislocated shoulder prevent-
ing her taking a more active part. The
girls, who looked charmingly boyish in their
khaki breeches and white silk shirts, included
Gwen Johnston, Mora Pennefather, Wyn
and Phyllis Woodmason, Hilda Stocks and
Ethel Charley. W. Barrett, Currie Johnson,
George Taylor, W. Woodmason, jun., and
Frank Richardson, jun., were their part-
ners in an amusing afternoon’s sport.
In navy blue with sparkling embroidery,
Mrs. W. Vance was hqstess at a tea-gathering
at the Alexandra Club during the week to
introduce her niece, Helen Simon, the viva-
cious _ leading lady of “A Cuckoo in the
Nest,” to several local friends. Though the
dark-haired mummer, whose white frock had
steel and blue decorations, has spent most
of her few years in England, she belongs to
the Apple Isle, her grand-dad, the late Philip
Fysli, having been Premier of the Speck and
Federal Postmaster-General.
Sixty girls staying at the Seaford holiday
hostel provided a free entertainment for
visitors on a recent afternoon by staging a
pageant, “The Landing of Captain Cook.”
A raft was camouflaged to look something
like a ship, and costumes were improvised.
Interest particularly—and naturally—was
mostly centred in the horde of “aboriginals”
that greeted the distinguished navigator.
In the evening there was a State banquet at
the hostel, at which “Governor Phillip”
presided.
Marjorie Chave Collisson, who is here to
make arrangements for the visit of Maude
Royden, the famous English woman
preacher, was born in Adelaide and is a
graduate of Sydney Uni. She is organising
secretary of the British Commonwealth
League. Representatives of various women’s
organisations met her the other evening at
the old Grammarians’ Club, when Miss Gil-
man JoneSj in taffeta of sea-foam hue crested
with gold lace, did the honors. Miss Collis-
son, in a smart frock of sweetpea-pink
georgette, declared that there was nothing
dowdy about the women’s movement, and
quoted a sizeable chunk of the peerage to
prove that some of the very best people
were in it. She advised her hearers to wear
their best gowns, best powder and most
perfect marcel wave to all Miss Royden’s
meetings. The listeners learnt that Miss
Royden wears pretty clothes and enjoys a
cigarette. Amongst those bidden to meet
Miss Collisson were Mrs. John Jones, Mrs.
Rapke, the Weedon lady, wearing a flounced
gown of geranium pink; Mrs. Claud Couch-
man and Mrs. Watson Robertson, of the
Women’s National League. The National
Council of Women was represented by Mrs.
D. A. Skene, Mrs. Glencross, in array of
cream georgette and gold lace, Mrs. Bage and
Mrs. Britomarte James.
This city already possesses a lady preacher,
so Maude Roydon won’t be exactly a novelty.
The local evangel is Vier Polis, who every
Sunday ascends a Collins-street platform
robed in a purple cassock decorated with a
large gold cross. The lady has studied Rosi-
crucian lore, and her clear voice and charm
of manner attract large congregations.
The Nicholas brothers have given the
Methodist Ladies’ College, where a daughter
of each is enrolled, an up-to-date
cafeteria and social hall, which cost £4OOO.
The building is of sandstone in the Spanish
style of architecture, with a piazza paved in
red and white bricks on three sides. Bright-
green doors and window-frames, windows
bright with leadlight designs, flower-boxes
and quaint tavern lamps help to make the
exterior attractive. Within the long raised
counters of a cafeteria border a large room
dotted with small tables and chairs. Walls
and ceiling arc stuccoed in old ivory hue,
enlivened by a band of bronze and gold tiles
topped with an edging in which black and
blue are the predominant shades.
The tennis circle has lost one of its most
popular members, Kathleen Roberts, who
became Mrs. Francis Wright at St. Leonards,
Brighton, the other evening. The bridegroom,
who sailed over from Calcutta to keep his
tryst, is a Sydney boy, son of Dr. F. Wright.
11 is bride is the daughter of the J. W.
Roberts couple, of Brighton. Roses and
hydrangeas decorated the church, and a cloud
of parchment-tinted georgette falling into
pointed effects formed the bridal gown, worn
with a velour hat furnished with a diamond
brooch. A posy of roses and dahlias blended
harmoniously. Small Judy Amadio, the
bride’s niece, looked dainty in a white-tucked
frock.
On a recent afternoon Nancy Roberts, one
of our keenest kindergarteners, floated up
the aisle of St. John’s, Toorak, and became
Mrs. W. 11. C. Stretch. The bridegroom is
the son of William Stretch, of Wallenduc,
and a nephew of the late Bishop Stretch,
of Newcastle. The bridal grown was a
foam of ivory georgette, which fell into un-
even lines at the foot, and a lace veil bound
with orange-blossoms was caught on the
shoulder with a posy of blossom. Cousin
Patty Clarke and Kathleen Law, as attend-
ants, wore wide-skirted frocks of sky-blue
georgette, and a touch of the same hue crept
into the crowns of their beige felt hats. The
bride, who is the daughter of the Rev. Darby-
shire Roberts, has, since taking up kinder-
garten work, made her home at Toorak with
her aunts, the Misses Rowe, who afterwards
entertained the company at No. 9.
For her appointment at St. John’s, Toorak,
with Hunter Charles Hagon, whose station
lands are in North Queensland, Joan Whar-
ton wore flounces of white tulle attached to
a bodice of figured silk, with tulle veil and
train. The bride is the youngest daughter
of the late Mr. and Mrs. ,T. L. Wharton, of
this city. Margaret Hagon, of Sydney,
wearing a pink-and-lilac gown with blending
felt millinery, was assisting maid, two small
nephews were pages and two nieces were
flower girls. The bride’s sister, Mrs. Leo
Meagher, entertained at No. 9.
The scholarly Bernard Patrick O’Dowd,
whose face looks out of this page, used to
be an every week contributor of melodious
and polished verse to The Bulletin. Nine
volumes o f
poems stand to
his credit, but
only one has
appeared since
1912 “Alma
Venus,” pub-
lished in 1921.
O’Dowd wa s
born in Vic-
toria 62 years
ago; was a
great winner
of exhibitions
and scholar-
ships as a boy,
and passed out
of the Mel-
bourne Uni-
versity 8.A.,
LL.B. a n d
Dublin Prize-
man. After
admission as a
barrister h e
compromised between law and literature by
taking a job as Assistant Librarian at the
Melbourne Supreme Court library; and after
23 years he became Assistant State Parlia-
mentary Draftsman. Of recent years lie has
assisted in the publication of a number of
legal works.
Anne Falk had an appointment at St.
Kilda Synagogue last week with Arthur,
third son of Charles Shmith, East St. Kilda.
The bride, who is the only daughter of the
Rev. J. and Mrs. Falk, was surrounded by
a cloud of shimmering white draped with a
veil. The pair will make their home in Bris-
bane.
Sylvia, the pretty blonde daughter of the
W. Bates couple of Deepdene, who is to
wed Phil Kelynack on the 21st, is being
deluged with teas and parties. One of the
most appreciated of these was given by Mrs.
H. S. Heath, of East Malvern, assisted by
her daughter, Mrs. Noel Gutteridge, at which
the bride-elect harvested a fine array of
kitchen furnishings.
The Women’s Automobile Club’s first
afternoon tea this year was held on Thurs-
day. In the absence, owing to a bereave-
■ ment, of the president, Mrs. H. J. Robertson,
; Mrs. J. B. Mills, the hon. sec., played the
part of hostess, wearing a black gown with
; a touch of green and a black hat. Pianist
May Broderick, Margaret Kerr with her
cheery monologues, the fresh voice of Molly
1 Mackay and Cecil Parkes’s fiddle helped the
i members to forget for a while that the
1 weather was uncomfortably warm.
The earnest Scot depicted here by Melba
; Studios is Robert Campbell, a show of whose
pictures occupies the Sedon Galleries this
; week. He was born within sight of Edm-
' burgh Castle 25 years ago, and was educated
in England.
He migrated to
Queen sland
with his
parents as a
lad of 13 and
was soon mak-
ing cartoons
and doing com-
mercial work
for Maynard’s
Agency in
Brisbane, and
exhibiting at
the Queens-
-land A r t
S o c i e t y’s
annual shows.
Moving to
Sydney the
young painter
found an ap-
preciative pat-
ron in John
Young, of the
Macquarie Galleries, for whom he made
many sketches of Sydney’s old streets and
buildings, South Coast scenery and so forth.
As a boy he fell under the spell of the great
Turner, but lie is now developing a style of
his own. It is his ambition to return to the
Old Dart for study.
The Women’s National Club brought forth
tea and cakes on Thursday afternoon in
honor of Miss M. Chave Collisson, of the
British Commonwealth League. The guest
explained the wliys and wherefores of the
B.C.L. to an interested company and put
in a word for Maude Royden.
We’ve had such an influx of the Old
Dart’s aristocracy lately that “Debrctt” and
“Who’s Who” have been working overtime.
The latest to arrive is a daughter of the
late Duke of Leeds, Lady Moira Lyttelton,
who left the Cathay at Adelaide and came
overland. Her husband, Captain Oliver
Lyttelton, son of Alfred Lyttelton, who was
once Colonial Secretary and a cricketer of
renown, went to Broken Hill with Sir Robert
Horne. In the meantime his wife is making
friends here. Their stay is to be a short one,
as they want to see Maoriland before turn-
ing homewards.
Revisiting Australia is the Countess of
Ivintore, who from 1889 to 1895 was chate-
laine at Adelaide Government House. With
her daughter, Lady Hilda Keith-Falconer,
she arrived by the Port Hobart. During
a sojourn of some months here they will stay
with Lady Stonehaven, who is the Countess’s
eldest daughter.
Lady Lawford arrived last weak on her
twenty-fifth visit to these shores, and is
staying with her sister at Bacchus Marsh.
Her dad. Hartley Williams, was the senior
puisne judge of Vic. a quarter of a century
ago. The reasons why the Shiels-Berry
Ministry passed him over when the C.J.-
ship became vacant in 1893 by the death of
the great Iliginbotham, and selected John
Madden, will ope day supply an interesting
chapter of political history. Judge Williams
is now close on 85. He has been drawing
a pension of £l5OO a year since he retired in
1903.
The nursing staff at Caulfield Military
Plospital is not fond of night duty—and
for a very good reason. The old Rickettson
mansion could hardly be improved upon as
general quarters go, but the rub comes as
the nurses, in turn, are due for their six
weeks of night duty every four months. The
shift from their comfortable main quarters
to the tin shed near the stables at the
eastern end of the grounds is dreaded.
The shed is a sort of Alice Springs
hut divided into 13 cubicles (for bad luck),
each about the size of a horse-stall. The
two doors —the only ones —at either end of
the building have to be kept closed all day
to keep out the stable flics, and the only
means of airing the place is through the
midget wire windows of the cubicles. There
is absolutely no protection from the weather,
and in the hot summer evenings when the
nurses come on duty for their 10-hour stretch
the poor things—two to each ward —are
almost as fit for their beds as the men they
have come to nurse. This has gone on for
10 years, and it seems time someone raised
a roar.
A Ballarat firm used desperate measures
to draw the women into its shop the other
day. Some perfectly nice frocks, some of
them worth ordinarily two or three guineas,
were priced in the window at one shilling.
And they were sold at a shilling, too, to the
victors in what must have been a Homeric
battle. The disappointed ones found other
bargains, not quite so good, and the experi-
ment from the shop’s point of view seems to
have been quite successful.
The felt hat of last season will have to
give way next autumn, if the fashion
arbiters are right, to the close-fitting helmet
hat with feather or velvet adornment over
the ears. The new millinery has a narrow
brim, and all trimming is on the crown. The
embellishment consists of inlet designs in
floral or conventional patterns, or else of
embroidery or embossed traceries to match
a particular gown.
Mrs. Evans Rees, hon. sec. of the C.T.U.,
is packing her suit-cases for a flight over-
seas. She is to attend the world’s congress
of the union to be held at Lausanne in a
few months’ time.
Mary Campbell, of the Albert-street Con.,
who has been holidaying in Maoriland, re-
turned last week to find some very keen
students waiting on the mat, though the vocal
school was not officially open. Beppie de
Vries, of ‘‘The Student Prince” co., headed
this early-door queue, and a special course
was commenced without delay.
Sister Gwynne Burton, writing to friends,
describes her present location as a little slab
hospital in Central Africa, near the Nile
basin, to which patients are brought from
incredibly distant places. The lady was in
the middle of a world tour when the Central
African Administration, always keen to
secure the services of skilled nurses, engaged
her. Sister Burton would be easier in her
mind were it not that she has given her
promise to a Melbourne man. She fears she
may find it difficult to part with her job.
Miss E. M. Trail, after years of cheerful
service as supervisor of the newspaper- and
magazine-circulating activities of the Victoria
League, was feted by fellow members before
boarding the Orvieto in company with Bessie
Wingrove for a saunter through Palestine.
After seeing the holy places the pair will go
to Italy, where they hope to link up with
Dr. Helen Sexton and see Europe under her
experienced guidance.
The Nestor will put ashore the T. H.
Arrowsmith couple, who intend to make their
home on this continent. He is an Australian
who has been studying business conditions
abroad for some years, and he has accepted
an appointment which will enable him to
use his special knowledge. With them is
Mrs. Arrowsmith’s widowed mother, Mrs.
George Barton.
Works-Minister Jones has not permitted
the Ivew Council to act like a feudal baron
and take as a site for a new Town Hall the
suburban home of D. G. Carnegie. Amidst a
chorus of approval Jones has decided that
“public necessity” was no warrant in this
instance for depriving a man of a home
of which he made full use for his family and
as a host to many friends. There are nume-
rous other suitable sites available, as Jones,
who resides in Kew, knows.
Matrons with luxurious homes and well-
grounded fears of burglars have found a
new occupation for the type of gentlemanly
young male who acts as a paid dancing-
partner. He is installed as caretaker while
the owner is away on her summer holiday.
Such an arrangement suits both sides. The
chatelaine is carefree, and he gets bed and
board, and, having a free hand, is enabled
to straighten up a very lopsided social list
by giving sundry little entertainments to
wondering friends. Several nice young
things with expensive tastes, willing to flo
anything but work, are thus managing to
enjoy what otherwise might have been a
very barren season.
Murray, the vaudevillain who has been
mystifying Tivoli audiences by his defiance
of bolts, bars and locks, was born in Mel-
bourne, being a son of Mrs. Billie Carring-
ton Walters, who lately returned to this city
after 10 years’ absence in South-eastern
Asia. During the last six years she has fol-
lowed the Inky Way. The lady owned and
conducted a weekly magazine in Java, did
some free-lancing on the side, and published
a book of verse.
Wing-Commander Goble and his wife, with
their small sons, have taken up home-life
again here, after three years’ absence in
England.
Art always aims to improve upon Natur>.
and not infrequently succeeds. It has now
invaded the sphere of ornithology. At a
show of novelties held by one of the whole-
sale houses last week, a feature of the exhibit
was a row of parrots and cockatoos of gay
plumage, perched on stands. They were
rather more decorative than the real thing,
and strikingly life-like.'
Artist Elma Roach is preparing for an-
other trip to England and Europe. She if
booked to depart in April.
The Max Brownes, though only lately
unloaded from the Ascanius, are looking fo:
Eastern passports and intend to sample an
Indian season, with a European tour in
prospect after that.
The Mansley Greer couple, who have been
holidaying in Ceylon, returned last week.


BRQTHER§
ATTRACTIVE PRESENTS
FOR THE HOME
Hardy’s collection of gifts which are suit-
able for the home is without rival in
Australia for variety and value. Here
are typical examples. Selections will be
sent on approval to any address.
2903. —Solid Silver Sugar Basin,
and Tongs, in velvet-lined case.
utility and charm.
£7/7/-
Cream Jug
A gift of
2905.—Silver Butter Dish,
with glass lining and Silver
Butter Knife, in velvet-
lined case, £3
sSv i gg*'WjjSSsaBiBQ
?''-V''V*VT*l*l‘'‘* , ' i 'i
2901. —Pair of Pierced Silver Sweet Dishes
in velvet-lined case. Diameter 3J inches.
£2/16/-
2902.—Bronzed Brass Fern
Pot. Diameter 9} inches.
Height 8 inches. A useful
and attractive gift, 20/-
Five per cent, discount allowed lor Casti.
Hardy’s New Catalogue will be sent, post free, to any address.
298-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
*£/7te%ouse oP&tscluswcVewcllay
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
JJ6-JIB
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
This year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin” —bigger and better.
SS
SB
K
s:
s:
‘A
(Ind H MUdt~(it kfojd'
tkz (Lnckct^tlh^
That picnic to-morrow
wouldn’t be a real picnic without
the Anchovette sandwiches.
Everyone in the party likes their
tasty and appetising flavour.
Serve Anchovette, too, for light sappers.
Get a jar from your grocer to-day.
Peck’s
ANCHOVETTE
The delicious Fish Paste
The “WINTON” Perfect Saddle
■r' i I
u
7
V'-'
■'
a
THE “WINTON
FOR COMFORT,
SECURITY
AND LONG LIFE.
It is a high-grade saddle possessing several features
designed to increase the comfort of both horse and
rider.
The flaps are sewn direct on to the seat, doing away
with the usual skirt and giving a narrower non-
chafing grip. The pads are set well up, giving per-
fect security for rough riding, while the tree and
panel are just right for the horse’s back.
Included in the price are folded girth, bevelled leathers and
solid nickel 4-bar stirrups.
£l6/10/-
FREIGHT PAID FOR CASH WITH ORDER TO
ANY STATION ON N.S.W. RAILWAYS.
Write for Our Catalogue of Australian and Texas Saddlery.
Special Catalogues for Polo, Trotting Goods and Dog Outfits.
WALTHER g STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 George Street,
SYDNEY.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Rain is washing out the newly-planted
seeds from the amateur gardener’s flower-
beds, holding up cricket matches and slowing
down racehorses, but slieep-salc advertise-
ments prove that the man on the land is
stocking up to take advantage of the thickly
springing grasses. Money may be tight, but
seasons are improving, and fecund Queens-
land smiles again.
The raincoat in all hues of the rainbow
aud the ever-dowdy golosh are the out-door
wear of femininity, and socially matters are
very slack. There are only a few shows.
Nothing has been staged at Ilis Majesty’s
since Moscovitch departed, but at Cremorne
the Mirthmakers are due, and at the Empire
Brooks has his company. Rene Maxwell has
been singing at the Wintergarden.
The Lyceum Club dressed itself up with
asters and dahlias in honor of Misses For-
man and A. Petersen, just back from the
Cold Country, where they represented
Bananaland at the Club’s Congress. Miss
Petersen gave a report of proceedings, and
Miss Forman spoke on the Lyceum Clubs
of Europe. Mrs. Firmin McKinnon (presi-
dent), Mrs. J. Barnard, Mrs. Scott-Mac-
donald and Nina Stodart (also recently re-
turned from England) were hostesses. Mrs.
Barker and Jarrett had a welcome after
their return from London. Mrs. Nixon
arranged the music.
The Queensland Country Women’s Associ-
ation had their meeting at Griffiths House,
with Mrs. J. P. Petersen in the chair. It
was reported that there had been 50 visitors
to the rest-room during the month, and 35
adults and 49 children had been met.
At the club rooms of the Society of the
Blind (a musical, literary and self-aid
association which does helpful work here) a
social evening was held and there was a
large attendance. The Braille Society has
its rooms in the Telegraph building, and
here every wmek devoted women meet to
plan and discuss and give out books which
they have brailled.
Marie Harding, who is soon to be married,
has been given many parties. Edie and
Minty Barry feted her at the Country Press
Caf6. Cream lace and a blue hat were worn
by the bride-elect, and Minty Barry was in
Wedgwood blue and cyclamen. Edie Barry
wore golden crepe de Chine embroidered in
navy. Pretty Mrs. J. L. Woolcock gave a tea
at. Halwyn, Red Hill. Everyone brought a
gift for the bride-to-be, and zinnias, hued like
an Arab shawl, dressed up the rooms. Marie
Harding’s frock was ’broidered in pink and
blue, on an ivory ground, and her hat was
cream. Mrs. Woolcock was in rose pink.
While Dr. Haden Guest was in Brisbane
the Press Institute spread the traycloth for
him at the Criterion, with the M. L. Read-
ings doing the honors. Mrs. Reading was
in oyster crepe de Chine and black hat.
Th,e Edwards, Dr. and Mrs. Dolman, the
C. E. Sligoes, Alice Gore-Jones and others
partook of tea at aster-trimmed tables.
This is Mr 3. Dorothy Cottrell, a new
Queensland writer, who looks rather serious
in this photo, but who is really a most
vivacious little lady. She has reason to
smile when she thinks of the success of her
first book, “The Singing Gold.” She has
received £lOOO
for the Ameri-
can and Can-
adian serial
rights and
expects some
further thou-
sands for film
rights. Th e
whole energy
of her life is
expended on
her writing,
for she is
unable to walk,
and is confined
to a wheeled-
chair, as a
result of in-
fantile paraly-
sis. This hat),
dicap has not
prevented her
from enjoying
the romance
of a runaway marriage, and much travel
over inland and northern Australia by motor
and aeroplane in search of new material for
further books, of which one is finished and
three more are on the way. Her home is on a
Western Q. sheep-station, and her varied ex-
periences "of real Australian country life,
coupled with the fact that her American
publishers hailed her first book as “the work
of a genius,” lead her friends to hope that at
last the great Australian novel is in sight.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The O'Gradys were at the Victoria League
ball at the City Hall, accompanied by
the G.-G., Sir Robert Horne and aides
Lieut Leggatt and Capt. Bennett. Pretty
Beryl Edwards, lately engaged, was a mem-
ber of the party. In the throng were the
C J and his lady, the Elliott Lewises, the
Jones lady, ,Col. and Mrs. Cox Taylor, Mayor
and Mayoress Wignall, Mrs. Stourton (pres,
of the league), Lieut.-Commander and Mrs.
McFarlane, Commander and Mrs. Rhodes,
the D’Arcy Addisons, the A. N. Lewises,
Mrs. Cotton and Mrs. Eustace Cameron.
Several debs, made their bow, among them
being Cynthia Cameron, Elizabeth Garsia,
Margaret Peacock, Dorothy Lofts, Beryl
Scott, Kathleen Terry, Kathleen Watch-
horn, K. Todd,. K. Pitt, Phyllis Swan and
Sheila Mackenzie. Margaret O’Grady’s ivory
crepe remain frock had pink and silver em-
broideries and beads, with a large pink-and
silver rose on the shoulder. Frocking was
mostly colorful, and the uniforms of navai
and military guests helped the general effect
of brightness and gaiety.
The Victoria League was taken unawares
by Lady Stonehaven’s short and unheralded
visit, but there was some quick thinking
and a lot of telephoning, with the result that
over 100 members were mobilised at the
Town Ilall to meet her Ex. Mrs. Ada
Stourton, the president, was able to say,
quite truthfully, that the gathering was,
incidentally, a celebration of the League’s
25th birthday, which gave the G.-G.’s lady
a nice easy peg on which to hang her prettily-
phrased reply.
Mrs. Bessie Rischbeith, president of the
Australian Federation of Women Voters, left
the summer school at New Norfolk and, with
Mrs. Tom Murdoch, of Hobart, president of
the Women’s Non-party League, toured the
West .Coast before leaving this island. The
two women had a great reception at Queens-
town, and after they had spoken were enter-
tained by the warden and Mrs. Faull, the
Murrays and the Lansons. Thence to Devou-
port, where they laid the foundations of a
branch of the W. N.-P. League, and so on
to Launceston, where Mayor and Mayoress
Barber gave them a reception.
The lady depicted here is Madame Helen
George, one of our leading teachers of piaqo-
forte - playing.
A native of
Tasmania, she
received he r
musical train-
ing in Europe,
and then, as a
good Austra-
lian should, re-
turned to give
her own coun-
try the benefit
of the know-
ledge acquired
abroad. She
has a large
circle of pupils,
and during the
winter months
gives recitals
that are appre-
ciated by all
music - lovers.
Madame
George’s chief
hobby is choir-training and the cultivation
or musical taste among children.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Tattersall’s Racing Club held its meet-
ing at Victoria Park on Saturday in a wind
so strong that it was an easy matter to see
who had cotton tops to their hose. Chair-
man P. J. Flannagan and his cheery wife
entertained at afternoon tea, Mrs. Flannagan
wearing navy and white patterned georgette,
and a blue hat. Among the returned voyagers
present were Mrs. H. Cowan, in coral pink
frock, worn with a black and white hat; and
Jean Taylor, whose navy and white figured
silk was topped by a navy hat. Color pre-
dominates in summer frocking, and there is
a great vogue for the airman caps with
flaps over the ears that don’t suit everybody
—in fact they suit hardly anybody.
In spite of a thermometer that flaunted
100 degrees, the luncheon party given by the
E. proved a success. President Angas
Parsons and Dr. Duguid were masters of
ceremonies. The R. Gipps couple, pillars of
the Melbourne branch of the union, were
the guests of honor. Mrs. Ernest Good was
one of the speakers. Mayor Bonython and
his slim wife were there, the Mayoress look-
ing cool in a beige frock and wide-brimmed
hat.
Two engagements have provided a little
mild interest. That of Nancy Atkins to Leon
Gordon has been celebrated with diamond
rings and bracelets. The wedding gift, accord-
ing to rumor, is to he a racehorse, so the
bride won’t be able to wear it in church. The
other happy event is the engagement of
Andrew, only son of the John Tennants of
Princess Royal, to Gwen, one of W. G. T.
Goodman’s pretty daughters.
Mrs. A. M. Cudmore and her handsome
fair-haired daughters Rosemary and Kath-
leen are just back from an interesting trip
to the Orient, visiting Java and Singapore.
The elder girl became engaged while away.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Mrs. Muscio, of the Child Endowment
Commission, was entertained by the National
Council of Women in the Ivarrakatta Club
Lecture Hall. “Madam President” Holmes
received the guests in black adorned with
jet, and a flame shawl. Mrs. Muscio favored
beige georgette and a wrap of smoke-grey and
black chenille. Mrs. Curthoys arranged the
musical programme, and Mrs. Felix Levinson,
Daisy Main, Eva Willis and Beth John-
stone contributed. In the audience were Mrs.
F. S. O’Halloran, Mrs. Ivor Evans, Mrs.
Alfred Burt, Deaconess Genders. Dr. Roberta
Jull, Mrs. Bird and Miss Hinckley.
The thrill of the week was the mar-
riage of Marjorie Foulkes-Taylor to Dr.
Douglas Gawler, of Port Sudan. A lovely
veil of Brussels lace and a white georgette
train over shell pink, -edged with a tiny silken
fringe and sprayed with seed pearls and dia-
mente, made a fitting setting for the pretty
bride. Hetty Forbes attended in a swirl of
pink taffetas, touching her ankles, and a
pink-tulle hat. The reception, held in the
rose-filled Ivarrakatta Club ballroom, was all
the merrier for its informality. There was
no time for the issue of formal invitations,
as the short engagement and the decision of
the couple not to postpone their marriage
until the doctor’s next leave gave them
barely time to get married and catch th*
Chitral a few days later.
The Child Endowment Commission is hard
at work in this State. Increased taxation
on industries, higher Customs duties, and the
scrapping of the Defence Department are
among bright suggestions already gleaned
from witnesses who have been asked how
Australia can find another £24,000.000 per
annum. Euchre tournaments, art unions and
jumble sales may have an innings yet.


mrfTjrrrr
&
©
hf
Lot* tot dm Trademark t Ag*nu Ewrywher*.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street. Sydney
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly’
In these days everybody is an investor.
You have a life policy. Is it really worth anything? Is the office
you are in sound?
Are the shares you hold in a solvent company?
“The Bulletin” has established “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” to discuss
these matters. Subscribers are invited to ask questions.
Published the first Saturday in each month. Price 2/- per copy;
22/6 per annum. From most newsagents, or direct from “The
Bulletin” Offices, Sydney and Melbourne.
Cbe Equitable Cite
gh
FlOt§
OTFI
Coy.
Australasia 01
Head Office:
Pnrlwry House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Brandies:
NSW.: VICTORIA:
81 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St... Melb.
Transacts Probate, Life Endowment, Com-
bined Benefits (All Sickness') Assurance.
(Vacancies for Producers with good records.)
FTtEDK. LEVY, Mg. Director.
THE SEA HORSE.
By. J.H.M. ABBOT T.
and Iverkinong—which made up the respect-
able total of 24(1,380 acres of land. On the
south side of Twofold Bay he had obtained
a settlement area, which was to be, and
became, the port for his territories on the
tableland. What had been done by 1848 is
shown by tlie issue of Well’s Gazetteer for
that year. In ’49, however, came the crash
which left the Sea Horse Inn in the lurch.
But Boyd Town had had its glories.
“In 1848,” says the invaluable Wells, “the
Colonial Secretary reported that Maneroo
[Monaro] held 113,291 head of horned cattle,
307,590 sheep, 4544 horses. That the prob-
able shipments to be made from Maneroo
at Twofold Bay would be: 2000 bales of
wool, value £30,000 ; 300 tons tallow, value
£9000; 1000 tierces beef, value £3500; 4000
hides, value £1000; 10,000 sheep (to New
Zealand and Van Diemen’s Land —say, 7s.
per head), £3500; 2000 horned cattle, at
£2 each, £4000; dairy produce, vegetables,
bark, etc., £2000; whilst whaling operations
were estimated at: 500 tuns sperm-oil
£30,100, 200 tuns black-oil £4OOO, 10 tuns
whalebone £l5OO, making a gross total value
of probable shipments of £95,200.” Of Boyd
Town itself, Wells says: “There is a con-
venient jetty, 300 feet long, and as vessels
seeking the port to refit have the advantage
of a lieaving-down hulk and every necessary
mechanical assistance, abundance of water
and every description of provisions and vege-
tables, both Boyd and East Boyd are favorite
resorts for shipping. A handsome Gothic
church, the spire of which is visible twenty
miles at sea, ranges of commodious stores
some 120 feet in length, well-built brick
houses and neat verandah cottages, a splen-
did hotel in the Elizabethan style (one of
the most unique establishments in the
colony), large salting and boiling-down
houses and various other substantial proofs
of an increasing trade and commerce mark
the rapid advance of this young and hitherto
almost unknown part of the Pacific.”
So when you go to the Sea Horse, and
mourn its present desolation, you may picture
IF you take a steamer for Eden from
Darling Harbor—that part of Port Jack-
son known long ago as Cockle Bay—
which you may do once a week, you will
navigate for about twenty-six hours along
the southern half of the coast of New South
Wales, and eventually arrive in the second
best haven which that State possesses. Maybe
Port Stephens and Jervis Bay may claim
this distinction, too, but to anyone who
knows the four of them there can hardly be
much doubt as to the right of Twofold Bay
to rank next after Sydney Harbor. You
will land mails and stores for the light-
keepers on Montague Island —whilst the
great blue humps of the Dromedary loom
westerly on the ship’s starboard side—beer
and other necessities of life at Bermagui,
Tathra and Merimbula, and come at the end
of your voyage into one of the most charm-
ing and beautiful and neglected ports in all
Australia. No one would question this who
had ever been there.
Eden is a place where it would be a happi-
ness to loaf away the rest of one’s life, so
delightfully situated is the.quaint little vil-
lage that stands on the peninsula, giving
the great inlet the double character that in-
duced George Bass, in 1706, to bestow upon
it the name it bears. Once upon a time,
when the Kiandra goldfields were in full
swing—in the sixties of the last century—
it was a place of much importance, as the
port through which the diggings were
reached. Now, to the shame of New South
Wales, it has hardly any. Inevitably, it will
some day be important again—when decen-
tralisation is more of a fact than a theory.
At the time with which this yarn has to do,
between eighty and ninety years ago, all
the importance hereabout was on the south
shore of the big harbor, over in the direction
of the present Victoria, and the little Govern-
ment township on the peninsula had next
to none. For over there, with the majestic
peak of Mount Imlay for a background, was
Boyd Town, founded and maintained by
one of the most enterprising and unfortunate
men who ever came to Australia —Benjamin
Boyd. , .
Possibly this story, so far, reads a little
like a tourists’ guide; but it is only by go-
ing to Boyd Town and looking at the be a
Horse Inn that you may arrive at some
understanding of the queer thing that hap-
pened there in the summer of 1846; so that
is why the writer seeks to take you there
by means of a Bulletin excursion.
It is a pleasant journey from Eden to-day
by land. You may do it by car or. as I did,
on foot. You go down that magnificent road
into Victoria so foolishly entitled the Prince’s
Highway, every foot of which is beautiful in
one way or another, turn off it about six
and a half miles out of the town, when you
will have rounded the head of Nullica Bay.
and follow an old road for another half-mile
or so. That will bring you to the ancient,
enduring Sea Horse Inn. It will also take
you back from the present year of grace
to the time when this inscription was carved
over its imposing front door: —
BOYD TOWN.
MDCCC XLIII.
Coming round a timbered hill, you pass
close by a crumbling red brick chimney
which marks the position of Ben Boyd’s
boiling-down works, and the back of the inn
is in front of you. It is still a beautiful,
solid-looking building, though it has been
neglected and decaying for many decades.
When you come to the front of it and look
at it from the sand hummocks that lie be-
tween it and the timber-littered beach it
faces, you are able to realise how w*ell-
designed and how truly-built was this long,
gabled, Elizabethan cottage. With a new
roof, doors and window-sashes it would still
be a habitable house, this old-time hostelry
of the roaring ’forties. To-day it is only a
place of forgotten ghosts. In 1843 it was
the beginning of Big Things that never grew
up. A lonely, desolate place it is now; then,
it was the foundation stone of a new pro-
vince in Australia. You cannot look at the
Sea Horse Inn, if you are a good Australian,
without a sigh of pity for its present con-
dition. And that on broader grounds than
because you cannot now get a drink there
and it is seven miles to where you can.
Up in the Monaro, in 1844, the remark-
able Boyd was in occupation of fourteen runs,
mainly held under the old Squatter’s License
form of tenure —Maffra, Cudga, Inclibyra,
Mayallin Downs, Genong, Cambalong, Queen-
burgh, Snowy River, Wog Wog, Bocco
Creek, Bibbenluke, Boggy Creek, Bendock
A NEW SORT OF PUBLIC MEETING.
POLITICIAN (on a walking tour) : “Now, I wonder how one should appeal to him?”
to yourself something of the activities obtain-
ing there four-score years ago, when what is
about to be told you happened.
A fierce and turbulent, truculent and ter-
rific person was Long John Barnicoat, other-
wise known as Big Jack. Jack the Lad and
Port Arthur Johnny. Under each of these
names he was much the same —a giant of a
man, with an ugly, flat face, a chest that
was nearly four feet round, an elevation of
six feet six inches and great battering-rams
of fists which he well knew how to use.
There was a scar across his left cheek, and
he had lost his left ear —the result of a
cutlass-slash administered by a constable at
Eaglehawk Neck upon an occasion when he
had attempted to escape from Tasman’s Pen-
insula whilst serving a term of seven years
for a ferocious assault upon another con-
stable in Hobart Town in the year 1831.
He was a Hawkesbury native who had
gone to the whale fisheries when a long
stripling of a Cornstalk in early manhood,
and had sailed the seas south ot \ an Die-
men’s Land for several years before, bwim-
Jllu g ashore when ins snip lay at anchor in
the Derwent on her way up to Sydney —
leave having been refused by the captain
lie had indulged himself in the fearsome spree
which resulted in his sentence of penal ser-
vitude at the famous disciplinary settlement
minded by Governor Arthur. When he was
leleased he made his way back to the main-
land and, being tired of the sea and whale-
ships, occupied himself in various disiepu-
table ways until he found employment on
, ne of the newly-acquired properties of Mr.
Boyd on the Monaro. No work was too
liard for him; he was a great human bullock
of stupendous endurance and untiring energy,
and when we make his acquaintance in 1546
lie had been employed for two years on some
or the road-making jobs which had been
necessary in opening up communication
between Twofold Bay and the tableland, lie
had just come down to the coast, after two
and a half years away from it, and, visiting
Boyd Town for the first time, had found
the Sea Horse Inn and the thriving settle-
ment about it so much to his taste that he
had changed his ideas about “blowing” his
considerable cheque in Sydney, and had set
to work to enliven things there.
With a thoroughness that was character-
istic, he had entertained himself at the inn,
and on the November afternoon when we
meet him had just made a complete wreck
of the taproom at the back of the building
(you may see yet the painted letters on
the wall that indicate its position), thrown
everybody out and presented a broken jaw
to the barman, William Hicks. Raging mad
with much mixed alcohol, he was on the
point of extending his operations to the rest
of the building, when, as pious Peter McNab,
the superintendent of the boiling-down works,
put it, the hand of God was laid upon him.
Charlie Tanami, one of the kanakas imported
by Ben Boyd from the Solomon* Islands to
work on his stations up-country, approach-
ing with strategy and stealth upon his
flank, laid him out with half a brick behind
the ear.. Thereupon the inhabitants of
Boyd Town whom he had overawed, taking
courage afresh, fell upon him with unanimity
and bound him with thongs of greenhide. He
was flung into one of two little cells that
are situated in the rear of the building, at
either end, there to await the arrival of Mr.
Moutray, Ben Boyd’s overseer under Mr.
Oswald Brierly, who was expected at the
inn in the evening from his residence at
Whale Spit.
Immediately after this visitation of Provi-
dence had descended upon Big Jack the com-
munity was thrown into renewed excitement
by a cry that Ben Boyd’s yacht, the Wan-
derer, was coming up to the anchorage off
Tararago Point. Hastily abandoning the
discussion of the depredations recently com-
mitted by the ex-convict, and leaving William
Hicks’s jaw to look after itself, most of the
inhabitants betook themselves to the beach to
await the coming ashore of the great man.
The prisoner was forgotten, although the
taproom was hastily restored to something
approaching its usual trim orderliness.
Thanking Heaven devoutly for the angel that
had been sent to save the situation, in the
person of Charlie Tanami, and rewarding
that hero with a pound of tobacco and a
bottle of rum. Bill Smaile, the landlord ot
the Sea Horse, betook himself also to the
edge of the strand, to await the arrival ot
the presiding deity of B.oyd Town.
The trim yacht, a topsail schooner of some
240 tons, flying the burgee of the Royal Yacht
Squadron, had dropped her anchor in the
usual anchorage off the point, and when the
landlord joined the crowd upon the beach a
white boat from her w'as approaching the
jetty. Everybody had left his usual occu-
pation and hastened to swell the crowd
awaiting Ben Boyd’s arrival, which was alto-
gether unexpected. He had a way, however,
of dropping in upon the settlement without
giving - notice of his coming, so that there
was nothing unusual in this.
When he landed on the jetty, accompanied
by his friend Oswald Brierly, the artist, the
motley throng set up a cheer and crowded
round to welcome him, for liis personal popu-
larity was not the least of his assets.
At this time Ben Boyd was a good-look-
ing man of about fifty years of age, active
and athletic, with the forehead of a thinker
and the quick eye of a man of action.. He
is said to have been popular with women, and
to have commanded respect and confidence
among the members of his own sex. The
portraits that exist of him show T a hand-
some, clear-cut face, fringed with one of
those beards below the chin fashionable in
the ’forties.
Two strangers to the settlement made up
the rest of the party—“swells” from Sydney,
Bill Smaile estimated them to be. They
walked up the jetty, a little incommoded by
the local inhabitants and the mob of whale-
men from the ships lying in East Boyd Bay,
on the other side of Whale Spit, and made
their way to the inn.
“Smaile,” said Mr. Boyd, when they had
arrived at the front door of the Sea Horse,
“until six o’clock you will please be good
enough to serve any of these —ah—gentle-
men who may desire refreshment with what-
ever they require at my expense.”
Well did Ben Boyd know how to touch
the collective heart of his employees! The
resultant cheer to this announcement might
almost have been heard in Eden, across the
bay. So unanimously was it availed of that
the terrible prisoner, lying bound in his
place of internment in the hot little ceil
behind the kitchen fireplace, was quite com-
pletely forgotten. It was not until later in
that evening, after dinner, when Mr. Boyd
himself made unexpected inquiry for him
that Bill Smaile remembered Port Arthur
Johnny.
* * * *
Mr. Boyd, Mr. Brierly and the two stran-
gers sat over their wine in the dining-room
smoking and enjoying the cool nor’-easter
that blew in through the big open window
facing the bay. They had been joined by
Mr. Moutray. the overseer, and Bill Smaile
himself was engaged in removing the remains
of the feast, when Ben Boyd suddenly inter-
rupted the general conversation by turning
to ask of Mr. Moutray :
“Moutray, have you by any chance
seen or heard anything of a fellow
named Barnicoat? A huge giant of a
man—an enormous and very ugly fel-
low. Has he been in Boyd Town
lately?”
The overseer took his churchwarden
from his lips, and thought for a
moment or two before he replied. He
shook his head.
“I haven't seen him for a long time,
sir,” he said. “I think I know the
man you mean. A tremendous fellow,
with a cut across his face and one of
his ears missing? Would that be the
man ?”
One of the strangers took a notebook from
his pocket and consulted it. He was a hard-
looking, alert gentleman, with side-whiskers,
closely clipped, and a vague air of suspect-
ing everybody and everything of being some-
body or something else. He nodded at Mr.
Moutray and proceeded to read aloud from
the little black book:
“H’m—yessir—that’ll be the man. ‘Age
about thirty-five, height six-foot-six. brown
hair an’ reddish beard, very powerful, scar
oti left side of face and left ear missing,
both arms tattooed and on chest and back,
scars on ankles from leg-irons.’ That’ll be
him, sir—that’ll be the fellow we want. Have
you seen him about here lately?”
“I haven’t come across him here at all,
Mr. Riley. The last time I saw him, if my
memory serves me, he was working on the
Maneroo-road, a long way from here. And
that’d be a twelvemonth ago if it’s a day—
for I haven’t been up country for that length
of time, if not longer.”
“When I introduced Mr. Riley and Mr.
Jones, Moutray.” interrupted Ben Boyd, “I
failed to inform you that they are police-
officers, who have a warrant for the arrest
of this man Barnicoat. He’s wanted for
murdering a man in Sydney more than two
years ago, at an inn in Argyle-strset. H«
managed to effect his escape, and completely
disappeared. Nothing has been heard of
him since, and it was thought that he’d got


The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital £lOO,OOO
Issued Capital 49,161
Paid-up Capital 30,234
Directors:
John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
W. G. Woodger, Esq.; S. J. Goulston, Esq.
R. G. H. Joseland, Esq.
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax.
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
L. G. FUSSELL, General Manager.
£gj
H'IJPMANN&COS
HAVANA CIGARS
IN THE FOLLOWING SIZES
Half Corona, £3/15/- per 100.
Samples 9d. each.
Threequarter Corona, £5 per 100.
Samples 1/ - each.
Full Corona, £7/10/- per 100.
Samples 1/ 6 each.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
IA
'Wf.
YVZk
r
L™
352 GEORGE S T SYDNEY
■AND BRANCHES♦
\
h
V 0- c^. v v\e
A* V
-tvev e \V,.
i S*i-„ > \-*<->
wA> C c u \> &' \
o«Jf, Vi
Y<VfV it
\«> /i MJ
WAINUT
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
djIREY
HAIR
WOULD
' SPOIL
IT
#
Missing Friends.
WILLIAM GEORGE McDAID, also
** known as GEORGE McDAID, Rabbit
Trapper, formerly of Phillip Street, New-
town, but latterly of Bathurst, New South
Wales, or anyone knowing of his whereabouts
is requested kindly to communicate with the
Public Trustee, Box 7, G.P.0., Sydney.
S~* GRIFFITH (Comp,). Your pal in Syd-
ney looking for you.
IRK WOOD.' —Will James Andrew Kirk-
wood please communicate with Thomas
Dick, Dalmuir. Scotland, as he would like to
hear from him?
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home, Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, • Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Amusements.
£MPIIIET H E A T R E,
Railway Square, adjoining Saunders’ Corner,
in Quay Street, Sydney.
RUFE NAYLOR has the honor to present
1/6 2/0 THE FILM GIRL. 3/6 5/6
NIGHTLY AT 7.55.
Reserves at Theatre (MA1000), Nicholsons, Palings.
Samuels, and leading Hotels.
Matinees Thursdays and Saturdays at 2.15.
Theatre Box Office Hours: 9 to 3, 4 to 9.
5$ VD A E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: THE GIRL FRIEND,
CRITERION:
ALL THE KING’S HORSES.
ROYAL:
THE TRIAL OF MARY DUGAN
PALACE: THE GOLD FISH.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards' Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
J ■
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
C. W ILLIA M S O N, LTD.,
M ELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE STUDENT PRINCE.
KING’S THEATRE:
A CUCKOO IN THE NEST.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE TERROR.
A T 11 E N JE U A 1
** MELCOI
T II E A T R E,
jOOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
TWICE DAILY.
E. J. CARROLL PRESENTS
CHANG,
A PARAMOUNT PICTURE.
Plans at Allan’s.
HO Y T’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
1 1 MELBOURNE.
THE MAGIC FLAME,
Featuring RONALD COLMAN and VILMA BANKY.
ALSO
ADAM AND EVIL,
With LEW CODY.
|y| A.JESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LOUISE FAZENDA
in
SIMPLE SIS.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone: 7076 & 7790.
ALLAN WILKIE atul MISS HUNTER.
** WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SHAKSPEARE.
In preparation for 1928, “Coriolanus,” “All’s Well
That Ends Well,” “Henry IV.” (part 1), “Richard II.”
In Season BALLARAT, His Majesty’s, Feb. 13 to 15.
Sydney Representative: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229,
Sydney.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 QUEENSLAND TOWNSVILLE.
No. 135 of 1926.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction —Mr Justice
Douglas.
BETWEEN HARRY RIEDEL of Malanda
in the State of Queensland Carrier Plain-
tiff and EDITH HELENE RUBY
RIEDEL Defendant and STANHOPE
MASON CARR Co-defendant.
TO EDITH HELENE RUBY RIEDEL.
TO STANHOPE MASON CARR.
TAKE NOTICE that Harry Riedel of
Malanda in the State of Queensland Carrier
lias commenced an action against you in the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Townsville
by Writ of that Court dated the Eleventh
day of November One thousand nine hundred
and twenty-six claiming a dissolution of
marriage with you Edith Helene Ruby Rie-
del his wife in which said Writ you the
said Stanhope Mason Carr are joined as Co-
defendant AND THAT if you the said
Edith Helene Ruby Riedel and you the
said Stanhope Mason Carr wish to defend
the said action you should cause an appear-
ance to be entered for you in the said court
at Townsville within two calendar months
from the last day of publication of this
notice in the Sydney Bulletin newspaper
AND THAT in default of your so doing the
said Harry Riedel may by leave of the Court
or a Judge thereof proceed therein and judg-
ment may be given in your absence.
Dated this third day of February One
thousand nine hundred and twenty-eight.
[L.S.] .lAS. COMERFORD.
Roberts, Leu and Barnett,
Solicitors. Townsville.
Town Agents for :
Mac Donnell, Harris and Bennett,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff, Cairns.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
away to sea. It was only in casual conversa-
tion with Mr. Riley whilst ws were dis-
cussing the difficulties of crime detection
9 ne afternoon—in the bar of the Royal Hotel
in George-street, where I had the honor of
making Mr. Riley’s acquaintance—that he
mentioned this case. I remarked to him
that we had a variety of queer characters
working for us, in one capacity and another,
and that possibly his man might be in one
of the whalers, or on one or other of the
Maneroo properties. Whereupon, Mr. Riley
gave me a description of the fellow—just
as he has done to you. Then, of course,
I remembered him quite well. He’s the sort
of fellow you’d not easily forget. His vast
size. His very unprepossessing countenance.
His immense strength. Why, I’ve seen that
fellow myself pick up in his arms and carry
away a log that I’d dare swear any four of
us together could not lift from the ground !
Do you know where he is?”
“I have no notion, Mr. Boyd. He’s cer-
tainly not been about Boyd Town, or East
Boyd—or I’d have noticed him.” He sud-
denly bethought himself. “I don’t know,
though—he might be here now, for all I
know to the contrary. I’ve been over at
East Boyd for a week, attending to the
whalers, and haven’t been here for that time.
But if he had been here. Smaile would know.
Have you seen anything of such a fellow,
Smaile? Has he been about the inn? If
he’d come down from the mountains, and was
anywhere around these parts, he’d be bound
to come to the tap-room. Do you know
anything of him?”
It was thirty years since Mr. Smaile had
been “lagged” and transported to New South
Wales —a circumstance which had long been
forgotten by everyone except Mr. Smaile.
No detail of that bitter period of his career
had over escaped his painful recollection.
And never since those early years had be
had any time for, or sympathy with, police-
men. He was resentful of the fact even that
he had recently been compelled to be .civil
to two of them, in the persons of Messrs.
Riley and Jones. He shuddered, as he
thought of the brutal savage who had terror-
ised the settlement for three days past, and
had gone nigh to costing him his job this
afternoon —for Ben Boyd never tolerated
inefficiency, and he was supposed to control
the rough characters who frequented the
Sea Horse. He shook his head, however, in
response to the overseer’s question.
“No, Mr. Moutray, I know’s th’ chap
you mean. But he ain’t never been here —
not since th’ inn was opened. Been up
country a long time, I’m thinkin’. Is there
anything more, Mr. Boyd—anything you
want? If you’ll kindly ring the bell, I’ll
come in.”
“No, no, Smaile. Nothing, thank you.
W e’re quite comfortable, I think. I’ll ring
should we require anything.”
Mr. Smaile bowed—in the best footman
style he had acquired in service, 30 years
before—and left the room quietly.
But as soon as he was outside the door,
and had it closed behind him, he hurried
to the back of the building and into the
tap-room. He paused a moment in the
doorway, hastily scanning the occupants of
the room. Then he beckoned to four of them
in turn, calling them by name.
“Isaac, I want you. You, too, Tom
Cussens. And you, Dick Wall —and you,
Red Mick. Come outside—l’ve something to
say to you. No —I don’t want anyone else.
The rest of you can stay where you are.
This is a private matter.”
Wonderingly, the four men rose from their
seats, and followed the landlord outside. A
little way behind the house, he gathered
them about him in the darkness.
“Listen, lads. You saw them two what
came ashore with Mr. Boyd and Mr. Brierly
this afternoon?” He spoke very earnestly,
in a hoarse whisper. They crowded close
to hear him. “Well,” lie said, impressively,
“them swine’s peelers. Now, I knows you
coveys don’t like them sort, any more’n I
do. No—they aren’t after any of you chaps
—they’re after Big Jack, him we’ve got
locked up behind th’ kitchen. For murder.
Detectives, those s are, blast ’em. Well,
none of us likes this Barnicoat —but, by
God, I wouldn’t help a policeman catch a
mad dog, and him mangy. An’ I don’t
think none of yous would, either. I want
you to help me carry that Port Arthur
Johnny out o’ th’ house, an’ we’ll hide him
in an outbuilding with a lock on it till they
go ’way. Come, there’s no time to lose.
The boss has been asking for him. I’d
sooner burn the place down than let them
peelers take th’ , though, God knows,
I don’t love him too sweet! This way—
we’ll carry him out. Yous don’t want to
help th’ police, do you?”
A sullen growl of agreement with Mr.
Smaile’s sentiments assured him of their
assistance. He whispered to them to follow,
and led the way into the kitchen, which
was empty. Here he lit a candle, un-
locked the door of the little cell, and ushered
them in.
“Pick him up, and be quick. You never
know when Boyd or Moutray might ring
the bell for me.”
With some difficulty the four men lifted
the slumbering giant, and bore him into the
kitchen. Suddenly lie woke, and began to
struggle—and then to bellow like a wounded
wild bull. With an oath, Bill Smaile
picked up a cleaver from a small butcher’s
block standing in a corner, and clove Barni-
coat’s skull.
“Gawd! You’ve killed him, Bill,” gasped
one of the men.
“I know I have. But ye’re all in it.
Over to th’ boilin’-down works. You know
what to do with him. Into one o’ th’ vats.
There’s on’y Black Jack, an’ Sam the Liar
there to-night—an’ lie belted both of ’em
yesterday. Quick —that bell might go any
moment. Them two won’t split.”
They bore the dead man away, out into
the night—and at that moment the bell
jangled. Mr. Smaile hurried across to the
dining-room.
“What was that fearful noise, just now,
Smaile?” asked Ben Boyd of the landlord,
as he stood awaiting orders, differentially
subservient. “That frightful bellowing? It
sounded as though someone were being
murdered.”
Mr. Smaile laughed easily.
“Oh, nothing, sir—nothing, Mr. Boyd. I
just had to have a man put out —that was
all. A bit too free, he was. We got to
keep order, sir. He bad to be handled a
little.”
“Oh, was that all? Quite right, Smaile
—we must keep tile Sea Horse respectable.
Now, what will you gentlemen take?”
Jonah.
MAYBE the parents of Kahoa Totoa had
some good reason for giving him a
name which put into English was
“Bloody Necklace,” and maybe not. They
belonged to the village of Leimatu’a in
Yava’u, and anyone in the Kingdom of Tonga
will tell you that “Leimatu’a fashion” means
foolish or idiotic. Did not the people of
Leimatu’a stage a very realistic sham-fight
during the Great War and blow up their own
school-house? “But,” they said, “it was not
the school-house when we blew it up; it was
Hill 60!”- And did not a cutter crew from
the same village swear that their boat had a
devil in her, when she would not sail out yf
Falevai with both her anchors down ! Surely
a waste of time to look for reason in Lei-
matu’a !
The lad Kahoa when he grew to his teens
strongly objected to the name Bloody Neck-
lace, and in protest he took the name Jonah;
for he said that, like Jonah, he “did well to
be angry.” “The boys in the school,” he
complained, “call me, in English, ‘balati neki-
lesi,’ and they all laugh at me, for ‘balati’
is bad talk in English.”
However, “full many a shaft at random
sent, finds mark the archer little meant”;
and between them Kahoa and his parents had
produced quite a remarkable prophecy, the
fulfilment of which came when the self-
styled Jonah was a strapping lad of
eighteen. He and his cousin Uili Fonu were
out fishing, in a little dug-out canoe, along
the edge of the coral reef at the foot of the
high lilcu. Willie the Turtle, a hunchback,
hut a splendid swimmer and diver, had
handed over the diving-goggles and short,:,
stout spear to Kahoa, who probed the re-
cesses of the reef-face for fish or octopus,
while Uili lay dreamily watching the tall,
dark plume that rose from the crater of
Fonua Lei, away to the northward.
Suddenly, with a jerk that almost upset
the little canoe, Uili started to his feet.
With an upward rush that lifted half his
body above the surface, Kahoa had broken
water about six feet away. His face was a
sickly greenish grey, and his bulging eyes
stuck out like the eyes of U-u the robber
crab, as Uili, pointing with the canoe paddle,
cried out in amazement: “Olauc! Koe
lcalioa totoa! [The bloody necklace.]”
As the gasping Kahoa was dragged into
the canoe, little beads of blood, oozing
from many rows of punctures that formed
neat quarter-circles on his throat and the
back of his neck, broke and ran down his oily
skin. He seemed to wear a bright necklace
of scarlet lopa- seeds, with narrow crinkled
streamers of crimson-dyed hibiscus fibre.
“Koau Jiona!” he gasped between great
gulps of air. “I am Jonah —I have been in
the belly of the fish. I put my head in the
big hole. The great gata-lu [rock cod] shut
his mouth. I held the rock with my hands
and my feet. I died many times, but I did
not move. He did not move. My head
burst into a hundred pieces and lie opened
his mouth. I cams up too quick. I forgot
my spear. Tulm ae be [never mind it].
Koau Jiona kahoa totoa [I am Jonah of
the Bloody Necklace]. It is a good name.
Let us go and tell my father.”
MOTUKU.
The Half-Way House.
Before sleep blots the sameness and the crude
Dull commonplace from over-wearied eyes,
My drifting thoughts take color, many hued
As Queensland butterflies;
As rich as waratahs that burn beside
The woodland altars of the rocky hills;
As bright as waters when the strong spring-
tide
Up the long beachway spills....
When up the west the last pink cloudlet
clambers,
And pale eve gathers round her mantle
grey,
The black swans sweep across the sunset
ambers
Into the dying day.
Was that a breath from mem’ry’s wildwood
garden,
Shaking adrift from tumbled bud and
flower
Their rifled sweet, some air of faery Arden,
Re-echoing to this hour?
Spring’s finger traces now her name, where
dallies
The faded artistry of winter old,
Trailing across the Yarra’s misty valleys
The drooping wattle gold.
I see, ere sleep with hushing wings of quiet
Shuts out these changing fancies from the
mind,
Tall dandelions in a golden riot
Dance in a golden wind.
And down that way the rutted road went
looping.
And through those feathery bordered lanes
would come
At last to where the dusky pines were stoop-
ing
Above my mother’s home....
If I could go that grassy way to-night,
That way now tangled with the growth of
years!
But all its sunlight speaks of lost delight;
And all its raindrops, tears.
Shut out, O sleep, these visions, fading fast!
Need I relearn the lesson once again
That all the doorways to the imaged past
Turn with the keys of pain?
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


n
n
lu'J-
\/
m
1
8 ■ B
13 JU
1
i
Time
A
m
7
m
TO all lovers of outdoor sports,
a dip in the roaring breakers
on a Summer’s day is indeed
romance. Next day the sunburnt,
blistered hands and scarlet face
are painful realities. Why suffer
such distress and disfigurement
from sunburn when it can easily be
avoided by always using Rexona
Soap when you have your shower,
and then applying a little Rexona
Ointment, the cooling, soothing
and healing balm?
If you want to make doubly
sure of avoiding sunburn, apply
the Rexona Ointment to the ex-
posed parts before going into the
surf. This prevents both the
action of the salt water and the
sun on the most delicate skin.
If this is done, there will be no
after-effects from exposure to the
sun, no regrets after a happy day,
for the skin, soothed by the won-
derful influence of Rexona, the
Rapid Healer, will quickly regain
its normal temperature and com-
fortable coolness.
You will find Rexona Skin and
Facial Soap , ideal as a shampoo
for the hair after your dip.
Rexona Soap and Rexona, the
Rapid Healer, in its dainty pot,
should stand on the toilet table
of all who indulge in outdoor
sports.
Miss MEL GREENLEES, a
beautiful Rexona Girl,
writes ; “I find Rexona is the
most beneficial soap for use
after swimming or surfing.
It refreshes the skin and
has a cool, soothing effect
after sunbaking. It also
removes the salty feeling
from the hair. I recom-
mend it to my friends.”
1 mm j
1 ' !
Miss LILLIAN STEAD, a
charming Rexona Girl and
Winner of Clay’s 1927 Siren of
the Surf Competition, writes:
“Having used Rexona Soap
for a number of years, I find
there is absolutely nothing to
compare with it for the skin
and hair.”
a
o
o
X:
rsi
m
is
»
©
mmm
Miss EVE MADDEN, a
pretty Rexona Girl, writes:
“I find Rexona Soap un-
surpassed for the shin and
hair.”
m&S
■
■ ■ '
Pretty!
lBe ©aint^!
IV a- Rexona
* Siki
fg
c?or Wealth
cuu>(§eaijly
s!
%
Pi
fit
hf


WE ARE THE AGENTS
BULLDOG
hammer less
THE
GREAT
AT
GUN
LOW PRICE ,
THE BULLDOG is the Wonder Gun for £B/10/-
Quadruple bolted with side clips, fluid steel barrels,
guaranteed Government tested for any charge.
It fits the shoulder perfectly, and is beautifully
balanced. „
HOLLOWAYS are the Rolls Royce of English Guns.
Nothing to touch them in the field or over the traps.
World'famous, £l2 to £65.
THE FOX D.B.—Wonderful Hammerless, with or
without Ejector. They kill at remarkable distances,
£l3 and £l5.
WESTERN ARMS CO. Guns, £4 and £6. Great
Field Guns. A Week’s Free Trial Given.
Obtainable everywhere, or write the agents for
catalogue.
s. COHEN, SONS Jc CO. PTY., LTD.,
Hardware Merchants, 262 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE-
Agents wanted where not represented.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luva, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. j. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE .. .. .. BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory). Melbourne, Sydney, and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,_ this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, tor Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
THROUGH THE TRAITORS' GATE.
BY
HAROLD C.CANNING.
IT was a place of shadows. The fitful
flicker of the two kerosene lanterns hang-
ing from, the loav rafters of the old
coal-hulk lent a weird and eerie light to the
surroundings. At the top of a long narrow
bench sat a man. Spread out before him
were a number of papers, from one of which
he Avas reading aloud, with the aid of a small
oil-lamp which stood on the bench beside
the papers. Around the bench, the uncertain
gleams from the lanterns reAmaled a number
of grotesque and fantastic shapes, which, as
the eye greAV accustomed to the semi-dark-
ness, slowly resolved into the forms of the
remaining tAvelve members of the 535
Brotherhood’s Riverside Branch.
The portly figure of Heinemann, the
middle-aged German at the head of the
bench, Avith his round, fat face and small
eyes peering through thick spectacles, sug-
gested rather a prosperous pork-butcher
than the leader of a ■ society pledged to
bloody revolution. At his right hand sat an
alert. Aviry-looking individual, with a shock
of black, curly hair tinged with grey, a
pai r of gold-rimmed pince-nez perched dizzily
on the end of his hawk-like nose, and a
mounted shark’s tooth dangled from the
middle of his heavy gold watchchain —Epstein
the Jew, secretary to the branch. To the
left ot Heinemann was the treasurer, Cesare,
an undersized, hatchet-faced Dago, with
greedy eyes, prominent teeth and a repellent
leer. Next to Epstein was Toppingham—
pale, slight and blasfe; English aristocrat to
the finger-tips. Then came Doisky, with his
short brown beard immaculately trimmed,
and slender tapering fingers like a woman’s.
Mcßain, quiet yet incisive of voice and
manner, with all the canny resolution of his
race, sat opposite Doisky. A massive Irish-
man, O’Connor by name, occupied the place
betAveen Cesare and Mcßain. At the far
end of the bench sat an old Swede, slow of
speech and slow to action, with faded blue
eyes and white Avrinkled skin. A couple of
big wharf-laborers, a visionary civil servant
pledged to bite the hand that fed him, a
butcher’s assistant and a nondescript com-
pleted the motley crew—diverse of race,
“I don’t want those biscuits. Someone told me the
rats run over them.”
“Nothing of the sort, Madam. The cat sleeps in the
tin every night.”
diverse of character, diverse of occupation;
knit by the single force of fanatical devotion
to a Cause.
The slow, even voice from the top of the
bench, with its faint German accent, read
on in a dull monotone: “It has come to our
knowledge that there is within our ranks a
traitor wlho is selling our secrets for the
gold of the enemy. His identity is known
and he must die to-night. Lots have been
drawn, and on the Riverside Branch of the
Brotherhood falls the honor of providing a
member to dispose of him. The Riverside
Branch will at once draw lots to determine
which of its members shall be privileged to
rid the cause of its betrayer. Sealed in-
structions regarding the time and manner
of his death are delivered herewith. These
are to be opened by the president immediately
the chosen brother has been determined.
Thev are then to be communicated to him
alone. By order of the central committee,
P. Rubens, Secretary.”
Heinemann ceased reading.
“You have heard the letter, brethren,” he
said. “Lots will now be drawn.”
From a small calico bag Epstein pro-
duced twelve black marbles and one white,
md gravely counted them one by one into a
covered box, with a hole, just big enough to
admit a man’s hand, in the lid. This done,
lie shook the box deliberately, and held it
before the president.
Heinemann pulled out a marble, and
silently held the black sphere up to the
expectant gaze of the brethren.
Epstein inserted ibis own hand and drew
another black ball. No one spoke as he
placed the box before Cesare, Toppingham,
O’Connor, Doisky and Mcßain in turn. All
drew blacks.
So it went down the two lines alternately,
till only the nondescript and the Swede were
left.
Old Andersen trembled violently as the
nondescript inserted his hand. A tens’e
electric hush settled over the gathering. All
eyes Avere riveted on the hand that was
slowly withdraAving from the box. Andersen
breathed a swift prayer—probably he couldn’t
have said himself to whom—that the marble
might be black —that he might have the
privilege of rendering the great service to the
Cause.
The nondescript muttered a curse as he
opened his palm and disclosed a black ball.
The old Swede’s heart sang for joy. Ilalf-
fearfully he inserted his hand for the formal
recovery of the Avhite ball. Vaguely he felt
there might be some mistake; it seemed too
wonderful to be true. That his toil-scarred
old hands should be chosen by Heaven as the
agents for the vengeance of the Cause had
been beyond even his Avildest hopes.
Congratulations poured in on him from the
rest as he drew out the white marble. Then,
at a word from Heinemann, the meeting
broke up. One by one the conspirators filed
past the Swede, and shook him by the hand.
“Good luck! Good luck!” they said, and
went out into the night. Andersen and
Heinemann were alone
The German broke the seal of the instruc-
tions and read them over slovrly to the old
man.
“At ten o’clock this evening you will go to
room 5 of the building at No. 94 Denver-
street. The room will be unoccupied. Enter
it and lock the door. In the middle of the
western wall, four feet from the floor, you
will see a small round hole. This hole goes
through to the next room. Having familiar 1
ised yourself Avith your surroundings and in
particular with the location of the hole, you
will immediately switch out
the light?. You will then
take up your position by the
hole, holding in readiness the
loaded revolver with which
the president will supply
you. At about a quarter-
past ten the traitor will
enter the adjoining room,
where an urgent message
will await him directing him
to ring a certain number.
Immediately . you hear the
traitor enter the room place
the muzzle of your revolver
to the hole. Press the trig-
ger as soon as you hear him
give the number. The tele-
phone in the next room is
situated immediately over
the hole, and your shot will
pierce the traitor’s heart.”
Heinemann explained the
instructions carefully to
Andersen, and, having satis-
fied himself that the old fel-
low understood them thor-
oughly, handed him the re-
volver. Then, blowing out
the lamps, he took them
down, and the pair groped
their way from the hulk. At
the end of the wharf they parted.
A chill wind had sprung up, and thick,
lowering clouds were scudding across a wan-
ing moon as Andersen commenced his long
tramp towards the address he had been given.
Muttering gutturally to himself as he went,
the old fellow strode along with a step
strangely brisk in a man of his years.
He had not gone far before a light rain
began to fall —a slow, steady, soaking drizzle
that found its way right through his well-
worn clothes. Another half-mile and he was
wet to the skin. But his old heart was warm
within him, and he gave little heed to his
plight. Furtively and caressingly he fin-
gered the tiny weapon in his pocket—soon
to be the instrument of his beloved Cause’s
retribution.
He reached at last the suburb to which he
had been directed, and found without diffi-
culty the building he sought. The door was
open, and he gained the desired room without
encountering a soul.
Quickly locking the door, he switched on
the light and soon located the hole in the
western wall.
As he switched off the light a neighboring
clock boomed out the hour —ten. He settled
down to wait.
He began to marvel at his own good for-
tune. At a time when he had deemed him-
self too old to be of any practical service to
the Cause he had become the chosen min-
ister of its awful wrath. That there might
be danger to himself in the enterprise —that
he might be unable to make his escape after
firing the shot —and that the thing might-
nay, probably would —end in his own death,
all this he realised fully. But to him it
mattered nothing. Even in his prime he
would willingly have given his life for the
Cause, and now that he was old—well, he
could not live much longer in any case. Far
better that he should go out than that some
young and active member of the Brotherhood
should be lost to it. How proud his two sons
would be when liis deed became known among
the brethren ! He had brought both of them
up from childhood to serve the Cause, and
Oscar, the younger, was now the president of
another branch of the Brotherhood.
As the slow minutes dragged on, the old
man began to grow restless. The wave of
exaltation that had borne him on its crest
began to recede. He was chilled to the mar-
row, and very, very weary. His tired eyes
searched the darkness in vain for a chair.
He dared not switch on the light again. “I
am no longer young,” he whispered sadly to
himself.
He began to fear that his waiting might
be vain—that there might be yet another
enemy within the gates who had warned the
traitor of his peril.
The silence began to oppress him. A rat
scuttled across the room at his feet. He
started violently.
The clock boomed out the quarter. The
surrounding stillness became the more acute.
The watcher shifted his weight heavily from
foot to foot.
Suddenly he became aware of a
stealthy key inserted in the neigh-
boring door. His heart began to
beat wildly; his grip on the gun
tightened. Quick footsteps crossed
the adjoining room. In a second
Andersen’s nerves were keyed up
again. His fingers itched on the
trigger.
The footsteps ceased for a few moments,
then began to move towards him. The old
man could scarcely breathe. He braced him-
self tremblingly against the wall. Desper-
ately rallying his forces, he controlled with
difficulty the finger resting on the trigger.
His moment was not yet!
Then a voice spoke into the telephone.
The old man gasped; his hand shook as
though with a palsy. For a long moment he
hesitated, his whole worn frame racked by
cruelly conflicting emotions.
The Voice spoke again.
The hand grasping the pistol dropped
nerveless to the old man’s side.
“Oscar! Oscar! My boy, my boy!” he
cried in a frenzy. “Fly, fly, for God’s sake
fly!”
Coward as well as traitor, Oscar Ander-
sen needed no second bidding. The door
crashed behind him as he clattered precipi-
tately down the wooden stairs.
There was a second’s ghastly silence. Then,
from the old man’s vigil-chamber, a shot
rang out, followed on the instant by a dull,
heavy thud.
Then Stillness, shrouding and soft.
The Education of Babe.
7HAT a lovely window for curtains!”
yy said Babe, her childish ecstasy offer-
ing homage to her pet name.
“It’s a splendid window for light and air,”
said Fred.
Babe disregarded the noise. “I’ll have a
deep drape down from the top to hide the
ugly Venetians,” she went on, “and cur-
tains looped at the side window and muslin
curtains down below. I’ll make that win-
dow what Horace will call ‘a vision of
astral allurement.’ I know you don’t like
Horace, but. he really is a priceless thing
on—well, on window curtains and the
culture of the East.”
“I get anxious about him sometimes,” said
Fred, “for if he goes swimming near the
prawn nets his primary astral plane will be
on a hand-barrow at the Circular Quay.”
Babe had not taken a leaving certificate in
persiflage and did not have the merry retort
ready, so Fred went on. “But what about
light and air ? This room has only one
window and the house next door shuts out
all sunlight except at the top where you
want to put your ‘deep drape’; no use hav-
ing a ten-by-seven window if you brick it
up with curtains.”
“Well, I’m not going to have the sun
coming through to ruin my carpet; no man
except Horace ever knows anything about
things like curtains,” she said, gently
waggling her shoulders. She had been play-
ing the name part of the drama “Babe”
now for so many years that her performance
'Y as P erfpct as . far . as ker actlll S weat ’J^
the repartee of their elders performed with
the back of a brush when babes waggle and
say they won’t was unfortunately not a part
of the play.
“Well,” said Fred feebly, “ruin the r*? 01 }!
jf you b he, but don’t ruin me with the bill.”
“Oh, you are a darling,” she gurgled. “I
bue w you would see I was right. And I’ll
ba ve an afternoon tea and ask Merle and
Nma, and Jnlie—oh, and lots of others —
and j £ will be such a soft light that they
wcm ’t see the curtains properly, and suddenly
j-jj sw it c h on both electric lights, and then
£b e y will be able to see my lovely window.”
“You’ll have to switch them on for break-
fagt t0 o,” said Fred; but, lost in her vision
q£ as£ra j allurement, she let a perfectly good
opportun i ty of talking go by the board,
IN SCHOOL.
"Have your eyes ever been taught the
language of love?”
“No, but you’ll find I’ve got very willing
pupils.”
Usually Babe talked so much about what
she was going to do next week that she had
no time to do anything this week, but it was
not so now. She tagged Horace, and they
spent a whole day shopping, enjoying a very
stylish lunch and afternoon tea at her cost
and charges. She was so used to being
with Fred when lunching in town that
Horace had to remind her that she should
tip the waiter. “Give him two shillings,”
said Horace, for lie was in a generous mood.
The materials came next day and tin;
workmen folloAved so expeditiously that the
windows were thoroughly adorned by the
time the furniture was in its place. Fred
got home quite early, and when he entered
the room Babe and Horace, as far as he
could siee, were at afternoon tea. He
turned on both lights.
“Aren’t the curtains lovely?” asked Babe.
“They are an Eastern dream, Horace says,
and I am sure he is right.”
“Yes, yes,” spluttered Horace, for he was
a little doubtful whether tile barometer was
“set fair” or stormy. “It is my—or I
should say our—interpretation of the con-
templative soul of the —er —East, so to
speak. The deep drape of hydrangea blue
brocade symbolises the celestial aspirations
of the intellectual super-men of the East,
and the embroidery of gold images the riches
of psychic culture that they are waiting and
willing to pour out for the enrichment of
our mental aridity. The cloths of gold de-
pending at the sides are the full flow of
the golden wealth of thought that shall fall
for our enrichment, and the silk net at the
foot of the window repeats the color tone in
blue and assures us that earth and air are
receiving and conveying the profound
message of wisdom that shall saturate our
thirsting mentality.” And then, realising that
50 per cent, of his audience was waiting
patiently with a brick, he volplaned towards
brown earth saying: “Do you know, I think
we all have so much to learn from the
wisdom of the East! We are so crude; so
distressingly practical. There is a great
lesson for us in the passive, cultured religion
of Buddhism, don’t you think?”
“No, I don’t,” said Fred, whose fingers
were of the spade formation at the tips.
“The Hindus in India are the most degraded
and helpless beings on God’s earth, and
if their ueligion has anything to do with their
degradation we don’t want any of it in
Australia.”
(Continued on page Jf9.)


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS of
THE GREAT NORTHERN ELBE METAL COMPANY LTD.
CAPITAL - - - - £200,000
Divided into 200,000 Shares of £1 each as under:
100,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each are offered
for public subscription, 2/6 on applica-
tion, 2/6 on allotment, and the balance
in calls not exceeding 1/6 per month.
35,000 Deferred Shares of £1 each are to be
issued as fully paid up to the Vendor
and/or his nominees to the Company, in
addition to the consideration in accord-
ance with the agreement as hereinafter
mentioned.
50,000 Ordinary Shares are to be held in reserve
and under option to the first original
registered Shareholders of the Ordinary
and Deferred Shares above referred to,
to apply for same at par, upon any issue
made therefrom within three years from
date of registration.
15,000 Ordinary Shares to be held in reserve.
200,000
OBJECTS.
The Company was formed for the purpose (inter
alia) of winning, obtaining, and selling Basalt Metal
at Mount Bushcll, Shire of Erina, and acquiring from
the Vendor the sole and exclusive right to the whole
of the blue metal on various properties (as m the
different contracts and documents referred to in the
agreement hereinafter mentioned) situated in the Shire
of Erina. including the option of purchase over the
Basalt Metal deposit which has an area of about 041
acres, together with options and, licenses for the
necessary tramway roads sites and sidings and to adopt
and carry into effect with or without modification the
contracts hereinafter referred to.
SITUATION OF METAL DEPOSIT.
The situation of the Metal Deposit is such that
easy transport can he made to Gosford Railway
Station on good roads, practically level on the top
of the Plateau and gravitating to the Railway
Station, where an embankment affords good facility
for a loading Hopper contingent to the Railway and
ensuring immediate access to Newcastle and Northern
supplies, whilst the transport to the waterfront by
tramwav will be by gravitation to the lighter, thence
to the Ilawkeshury River Railway Siding, Brooklyn,
which Railway Station is only a distance of 35 miles
from Darling Harbor, Sydney. The Company having
a water-frontage depot, this affords means ot sea
carriage to Sydney Harbor and all ports, as well .as
by railway, 'which gives this Company valuable
economic advantages.
QUANTITY AND QUALITY OF METAL.
The Company has an inexhaustible supply of the
best quality metal to draw from. The deposit consists
of a mountain of basalt metal already broken into
sizes suitable for the crushers. Tins deposit is a
dense hard, olivine basalt, the olivine occurring in
minute crystals. Samples tested by the Department
of Public' Works of New South Wales prove the
Mount Bushell Basalt to be of the highest grade quality
for road and building purposes. See Prospectus for
Rock Test Certificate —Department of Public Works.
NO QUARRYING NECESSARY.
The mountain of basalt occurs in shattered, un-
covered, regular and irregular hexagonal and pent-
agonal columns varying from 6 to 15 inches across.
The shattered formation of spawls such as owned by
this Company provides economical handling, as it
almost eliminates drills, compressors, explosives, etc. In
other quarries this necessitates the employing of a large
gang of men removing over-burden, blasting, boring,,
popping, spawling, etc., to produce the same results
which Nature has already accomplished at Mount
Bushell. Thus it will be readily recognised that the
economy effected, in working a deposit of this nature
gives this Company a great advantage over those who
have to quarry the metal, in the usual manner.
SCOPE.
This is the Concrete Age, and Blue Metal is its
most important factor. Blue Metal is used for Road
Construction, Cement Highways, Buildings, Drains.
Tanks, Storage Pipes, Flumes, Troughs, Electric and
other Standards, Posts, Piles, Columns, Building of
Bridges, Culverts and numerous other purposes. Blue
Metal is the foundation of all present-day concrete
constructions. In view of the operations of the. Main
Roads Board and all local governing bodies in the
construction of scientific roads, and also in view of the
fact that the roads now being constructed from Peat’s
Ferry to Newcastle and from Wiseman’s Ferry to the
lower mangrove are within close _ proximity _ to
the Company’s Quarry, and in further view of the high-
grade qualitv of the Company’s metal, there should be
a big demand for the Company’s metal. The State
of Nmv South wales has barely touched the question
of concrete construction, which in other * parts of. the
world has proved to be the most economical and efficient,
but the Government, Shires and Councils arc all
organising for the purpose of establishing proper road
facilities. The appointment of the Main Roads Board,
to deal with this important matter and the making and
development of the roads of this State means that
greater yardages of basalt concrete and macadam roads
will be reauired. Extracts from the “Rock Products’’
of 29th November, 1924. Page 44 ( published m the
United States), quote 159,327,312 yards of concrete
laid down in one year. The greater part of the composi-
tion for concrete roads is broken basalt metal. The
demand, therefore, in New South Wales will become
greater each year for the material.
( Registered under Companies Act N.S.W. 1899-1918.)
Provisional Directors —
MAXWELL PORTER, Merchant,
Redfern Street, Redfern.
HENRY SHUTE, Investor,
Rockwell Crescent, Darlinghurst.
EDWARD BEALE, Constructional Contractor,
1 Bond Street, City.
W. G. ROYAL, Company Director,
Carlton Hotel, Sydney.
T. M. BERRY, Contractor,
Civic Club, Sydney.
REASONS WHY INVESTMENT IN
SHARES OF THIS COMPANY CAN
BE SPECIALLY RECOMMENDED:
(1) The existence of a good regular market, efficient
management, and reasonable working costs are the three
most essential features for success in a proposition of
this nature. It can be confidently claimed that these
features are very evident in this proposition.
DEMAND.—There is, at the present time, a great
demand for good quality blue Basalt Metal and many
contractors and councils have some difficulty in obtaining
adequate supplies of metal when required.
MANAGEMENT. —The Company has arranged for the
exclusive services of highly experienced men who
thoroughly understand quarrying and the blue-metal
business. The Directors are all experienced business
men of high repute.
WORKING COST.—The position of the metal deposit will
enable the Company to despatch metal by rail or sea
and conveniently supply Newcastle and the Northern
districts in addition to the metropolis. Besides this
advantage, the Company will have the benefit derived
from a large saving in quarrying costs, and therefore
should be in a commanding position as regards competi-
tion. Several similar companies are paying good divi-
dends, despite the fact that their quarries are situated
at a much greater distance from Sydney and they have
to blast and quarry every ton of metal before it can be
crushed. This Company will have no blasting and
quarrying to do for many years.
(2) Application will be made to have the Company’s
Shares listed on the Stock Exchange.
(3) The Shares issued to the Vendor are deferred as
to dividend and they will not participate until all the
contributing shareholders have received 10 per cent, in
dividends. A considerable amount of money has been
expended by the Vendor, who will transfer all his options
and leases to the Company.
ESTIMATED CAPITAL EXPENDITURE.
After making due allowance for possible con-
tingencies the cost of Plant and Establishment should
not exceed £95,000. This Plant would be sufficient
for an output of at least 200,000 tons of metal per
annum.
With the ever increasing demand for good quality
metal no difficulty should be experienced in disposing
of at least 2000 tons of metal per week from the
commencement of operations. This would only
represent an output equal to about half the capacity
of the proposed plant. Nevertheless, this minimum
output would produce sufficient net profit to pay a
dividend at the rate of approximately p.c. per
annum, after making due allowance for depreciation
and income tax.
The saving in working costs on account of the
metal in its natural state being ready for the crushers
makes good profits possible even with a moderate
turnover.
An increased turnover would result in much
greater net profits being made.
The present strong demand for good quality metal
indicates that the Company should have a turnover
of 4000 tons of metal per week within two years from
commencement of operations.
Much care has been exercised in the preparation
of estimated costs and details thereof may be seen at
the Company’s office.
The abovementioned estimates are made on a
conservative basis —for instance —Capital expenditure
on Plant and Establishment is shown at £95,000,
whereas the report of F. Oakden, C.E., M.I.E. (Aust.),
Consulting Engineer, with regard thereto is as follows:
CAPITAL COST .. With the data at my disposal, I have
prepared an estimate, including the
following work:
QUARRY . .. Plant and Equipment, with Power,
Screens, Hoppers, etc.
RAILWAY .. .. Estimated at 11 miles, including
Sidings, Points, Cross-overs, Equipment,
Locomotives (2), Side-tipping Waggons
(60), Coal-bunkers, Water-tanks.
WATER TRANSPORT: Hoppers (2), Punts with boxes, Breast-
work and Mooring Piles to water front-
ages, Loco. Traversing Crane.
SUNDRIES .. .. Dwellings and Buildings at Quarry, Way
Leaves, Freeholds, Leases, Surveys,
Engineering and Preliminary Expenses
and Contingencies
Total Cost, £76,950
AUDITORS—
P. L. de MONCHAUX & COMPANY
Public Accountants, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SOLICITORS—
FRED. C. EMANUEL & PEARCE,
Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BANKERS— ,
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE, LIMITED,
Head Office, George Street, Sydney.
UNDER WRI TERS—
METROPOLITAN UNDERWRITERS (Australasia), LIMITED.
SECRETARY (pro tern.) —J. S. D. CAMPBELL, Accountant.
REGISTERED OFFICE—
Eldon Chambers, 92b Pitt Street, Sydney.
INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS’ REPORT.
Sydney, 17th December, 1027.
The Provisional Directors, T ,
The Great Northern Blue Metal Company, Ltd.,
Eldon Chambers, 92b Pitt Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,— Acting under your instructions we
have to report on the estimates of Cost of J roduction
and Distribution as submitted by you relating to t ic
proposed Company to be called The Great Northern
Blue Metal Company, Ltd.
PRODUCTION COSTS.
We understand from the report of the Engineer
that the formation of the deposit of Metal is so extra-
ordinary as to practically eliminate the major cost
incidental to quarrying, namely : Blasting, Boring,
Popping and Spawling. On that assumption the
estimates as submitted to us arc based on an output
of 2000 tons of metal per week, of 50 working weeks
in one year. The location of the quarry provides for
the metal to be transported by light railway to the
Hawkesbury River, a distance of 11 miles, thence by
lighter to the Hawkesbury Railway Siding tor dis-
tribution ; for the purpose of arriving at the cost per
ton, Sydney has been taken as the destination.
DISTRIBUTION.
Conservative allowances have been provided for
all administration and general overhead expenses, com-
prising Directors’ and Auditors’ Fees, Managerial,
Secretarial, Office and Salesmen Salaries, Rates and
Taxes, .etc., and provision made for depreciation,
amortization and Federal and State Income-tax.
SALES.
The Estimates provide for the sale of 100,000
tons of metal per annum, calculated on the present
keen demand for metal.
ESTIMATED ANNUAL PROFIT.
By taking the sale of 100,000 tons of
metal at average grade price . . • • i<1,200
and deducting therefrom Production and
Distribution costs .. . • • • • • 52,b0 J
would result in an estimated annual
profit of . . • • • • • • • • ilojbUH
This, on a Capital of £150,000, would show a
net return of 12.4 per cent.
GENERAL.
In conclusion we would state that the inquiries
and investigations made by us, supported by the
remarks contained in the report submitted by the
Engineer, lead us to believe that the above figures are
in our opinion fair and reasonable.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION.
The Articles of Association provide that the
qualification of a Director is the holding of 500
shares in the Company, and that the remuneration
of the Directors is to be as the Company in General
Meeting may decide, and that such remuneration
is to be divided amongst them in such proportions
as the Directors may determine. . .
The Memorandum and Articles of Association
and originals of all deeds, options, documents and
contracts can be inspected at the office of Messrs. F. (_.
Emanuel and Pearce, Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street,
Sydney, Solicitors to the .Company, at any time during
business hours.
CONTRACTS.
Agreement dated the 13th December, 1927,
between Timpron Martin Berry and Henry Shute for
and on behalf of the Company.
Agreement dated the 13th day of December, 19l<,
between Timpron Martin Berry and Henry Shute for
and on behalf of the Company.
Agreement dated the 13th December, 192 1,
between Timpron Martin Berry and The Metropolitan
Underwriters of Australasia, Limited.
DOCUMENTS, ETC.
All documents, leases, rights, etc., may be
inspected at the office of the Company’s Solicitors.
UNDERWRITING.
The first 20,000 shares in the Company have
been firmly underwritten by Metropolitan Under-
writers (Australasia), Limited.
BROKERAGE AND PRELIMINARY EXPENSES.
The Company will pay brokerage and flotation,
underwriting, advertising, registration and all pre-
liminary expenses as per Agreements that may be
inspected at the office of the Solicitors to the Company.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
Applications for Shares may be made upon the
form herewith or upon the form accompanying the
Prospectus to any Member of the Stock Exchange,
Metropolitan Underwriters (A/sia), Ltd., 115 Pitt
Street, Sydney, or to the Secretary, Eldon Chambers,
92b Pitt Street, Sydney, together with a remittance of
the amount of the deposit. Where no allotment is made,
the deposit will be returned in full, and where the
number of shares allotted is less than the number
applied for, the deposit will be applied towards the
remaining payments.
TABLE SHOWING COMPARATIVE FREIGHTS
OF NORTHERN, SOUTHERN AND KIAMA
BLUE METAL QUARRIES’ PRODUCTS
for supplying Sydney and Suburbs and Country Districts of N.S.W.
NORTHERN,
from Hawkesbury River
Siding.
To—r s. d.
Alexandria ... 3 Hi
Strathfield ... 3 5
Granville 3 0
North Sydney .. 3 4
Parramatta ... 311 +
Hornsby 2' '4
Gosford 2 3
From Quarry to
Hawkesbury Sid.
approx 1 6
SOUTHERN,
To— s. d.
Alexandria 6 81
Strathfield .... 6 5
Granville 6 11
North Sydney .. 7 10
Parramatta .. 6 9
Hornsby 7 4
Gosford 8 4
Hawkesbury Rv. 7 10
KIAMA,
To— s. d.
Alexandria .... 6 0$
Strathfield 6 4
Granville .... 6 5
North Sydney .. 7 4
Parramatta .... 6 54
Hornsby 6 11
Gostord 7 104
Hawkesbury Rv. 7 5J
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
THE DIRECTORS, „ r „
THE GREAT NORTHERN BLUE METAL COMPANY, LTD.,
Eldon Chambers, 92 b Pitt Street, Sydney.
I hereby make application for . Shares in The Great i\ortliern Blue
Metal Company, Ltd., and agree to pay the sum of £1 each for same in terms of Pi ospectus
dated December 13, 1927. , . .. ,
1 hand you herewith the sum of £ being application money of
2/6 per share payable on the said shares. I agree to pay a further sum of 2/6 per share on
allotment and the balance in calls not exceeding 1/6 per month as provided in terms of
I hereby agree to accept these shares or any smaller number that may be allotted to me,
and to be bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company, and hereby
authorise and request you to register me as the holder of the said shares.
NAME in Full
ADDRESS
OCCUPATION DATE
Bulletin, 15/2/’2B.


A Message to
Kidney Sufferers.
DR. SHELDON’S GIN PILLS are the remedy you require for Backache,
Kidney, Bladder and Urinary Trouble. If they don’t benefit you we will
refund the purchase price. SHELDON DRUG CO., LTD.
That’s a plain, straightforward statement, and the words mean exactly what
they say. t
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are the remeay you need if you suffer from Back-
ache, Kidney, Bladder or Urinary Trouble.
They must benefit you, or your money will be cheerfully refunded.
You are to be the judge and jury.
Your word will be accepted as final.
Your money will be returned without quibble or argument of any kind if
Gin Pills do not benefit you.
Consider what this method of doing business means.
It means that Gin Pills will benefit 09 cases of Backache, Kidney, Bladder
or Urinary Troubles out of every 100.
We have substantial proof of these from practically every centre in Australia.
It also means that we have a large faith in the honesty of men and women.
We do not believe that a single man or woman out of 100 who have suffered
the torments of Backache, Kidney, Bladder or Urinary troubles would deny the
benefit they would receive from treatment with Gin Pills.
3Ve are sure 99 out of 100 would joyously admit it*
GIN
PILLS
WILL.
HELP YOU
This extraordinary offer is made because of these facts:—
The known medicinal properties of Gin Pills and the honesty of human nature.
Each Gin Pill contains all the constituents, with the exception of .alcohol,
of a pint of the finest gin, combined with other known diuretics, and forms a
remedy which benefits almost every case. Gin Pills are put up in glass bottles,
hermetically sealed, and we sell them to you with the absolute assurance that
if they do not benefit you yre will refund your money.
They are sold in two size bottles—at 1/9, or in large bottles, holding more
than double the quantity, at 2/9.
Buy a large bottle at 2/9 and give them a fair test, use two-thirds of the
bottle, and if you feel they are not benefiting you, return your bottle to the
chemist or storekeeper from whom you purchased it, and he will refund the
money; or communicate direct with the Sheldon Drug Co., Limited, 131-35
Clarence Street, Sydney.
Under these conditions is it not worth while for any sufferer from Backache,
Kidney, Bladder or Urinary Trouble to at once test this wonderful remedy?
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
For Backache and Kidney Troubles.
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and
mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-,
10/-, 12/6, 20/- & 30/-
Post free to any address
in Australia.
Send for Catalogue, illustrated
with Reproductions of our
Confectionery, in color.
HlOua
162-166 PITT STREET ,
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE KING STREETS ,
CASTLE RE AGH STREET
(NEXT THEATRE ROYAL),
SYDNEY.
.. .
s
m
I
i
q;
& :
mm
$
Q
‘ IVhat a lovely
Gift! "
“Ah, but you don’t understand,” said
Horace, “you should read their philosophy.
But you must excuse me, I have a very
important engagement and must catch the
next train—whenever it goes,” he finished
feebly, and faded out rapidly.
“I think you were very rough with Horace,”
said Babe, waggling gently in lieu of further
speech.
It had been dawming on Fred for some
time past that he was very nearly fed up.
Now he was certain of it. If Babe had
had the slightest sense of humor the situa-
tion might have been saved; she was a
woman, though, and followed the general
rule. But women who have no sense of
humor usually display great affection, devo-
tion and self-sacrifice, and in this respect
Babe was an exception. She was a spoiled
child on an adult scale. “Babe” was a
name partly indicative of her figure, for
babes are short and round and bulge in
places, but they are not eleven stone.
Fred ought not to have been fed up. He
had married her a year ago and therefore
deserved all he got. He really was very
fond of her, too, but in his own crude uncul-
tured way he thought it was “up to her to
have a bit of common.” Up to the present
time he had not found that manly speech had
any reforming value. Mild admonition—he
had never spoken rudely—was side-tracked by
some petulant irrelevancy, and if lie sent
along anything resembling reproof she came
out of her crease and smothered it with a
■waggle. He had a vague idea that he was
not getting a fair deal. And, besides that,
there was Horace ; lie had been hearing a great
deal too much of him lately, and although
he knew that Babe was a loyal wife he did
not like to hear her talk about “the wisdom
of the East,” for she knew even less about
it than she did of the wisdom of the West;
he thought lie heard the words of the undesir-
able Horace when Babe’s voice uttered glib
phrases concerning Western ignorance and
debasement.
“Oh, he always riles me,” said Fred; “so
does any other man who says that we ought
to be Buddhists. Did you ever look at one
of their pudding-faced images of Buddha?
You never saw one of them that showed the
smallest gleam of intelligence. I have read
some of the Buddhist literature and I can
tell you it made me a bigoted Christian.
Christ taught men to do good to their fel-
lows, but the greatest saint the Buddhist
teaching ever produced was a man who lay
for forty years in a gun. Someone should
have put a powder charge in the breech and
fired him to Heaven straight on a non-stop
run. Horace has some beautiful phrases
that he has learned about philosophy, but
like Buddhism he is weak on religion and
commonsense.”
“I believe you are jealous of Horace,” said
Babe, and the waggle extended down to her
rounded —considerably rounded —hips.
* * * *
Babe was a clever hostess to a certain
extent. She had made a list of the friends
who were to come to afternoon tea, and had
then rung up one-half of them for one day
and half for a later day. This plan had the
advantage of giving each party plenty of
things to talk about. If they had all been
present at the same time the style of each of
her guests would have been cramped.
At the first party Horace was the only
man present, and this fact gave opportunity
for some antique repartee regarding thorns
and roses. It always does.
When the lights were turned on Horace
gave his recitation about the design, and
Merle said, “Oh, yes, the Easterners are so
superior, aren’t they?” and, “Fuji-silk comes
from the East, doesn’t it, and they can’t
make anything like it here! I got some
last week at two and eleven and it was
lovely ”; and Julie added, “I adore Fuji-
silk,” but the symbolism of the East carried
them no further. Seeing that Horace had
navigated his barque of erudition and fancy
on to a mudbank Babe tried to give him
towage assistance.
“I was saying to Fred only yesterday,”
she remarked, “that if Horace would only
open a shop for designing window-curtains
he would make heaps of money. I am
always telling Fred that we ought to have
asked Horace to choose all the furniture for
us.”
No one openly sympathised with Fred, so
Horace said: “Oh no, my dear Mrs. Red-
bank, I really could not do that. A ‘shop’
is the deity of sordid commercialism; even
iii the bazaars of India —the Great Mother
of all Wisdom—there is the desire to get
English gold in exchange for the beautiful
things that typify the mind and the glory of
the East. I have been happy to render you
some slight assistance, but the soul of an
artist would perish—absolutely perish in a
shop.”
Horace was not Sisyphus; he could not
keep on pushing the stone uphill, and,
besides that, Nina mentioned something
about a Bangkok hat.
Horace’s watch had stopped. If it had
not done sq he would not have stopped—at
least not till Fred came home, for he did
not like Fred, and therefore went for the
ljext train—whichever it was—as soon as
his host appeared. When the guests had
all gone Fred made no comment, but as he
had received the bill for the window furnish-
ings he was not devoid of material for deep
thought, especially as he had good material
for suspicion that Horace had steered Babe
to a sordid shop that would give him a
sordid ten per cent, on the sordid job.
Horace was among those present at the
second tea-party, but was careful with his
watch, and left early.
The days slipped away as days are wont
to do even when they have no relation to the
next instalment. Babe wisely did not too fre-
quently obtrude mention of Horace nor de-
mand very frequent eulogy of the window
curtains. Then there came a night when
Fred had to stay in town for a monthly
committee meeting which usually detained
him till ten or later. On this night, however,
it was found that no quorum could be ob-
tained, so Fred gaily started for home. He
had forgotten to take his front-door key so
he went down by the side path and in at
the back door, giving his usual “Hullo” call
as he entered. From the back door to the
open door of the room where the curtains
were was but three steps along the carpet.
Fred had criticised this room when he first
saw it. He said it was like Martin-place,
because people could bounce into it from all
directions, for it had three doors. When
he entered the room Babe and Horace com-
prised the company. Only one chair was in
use, and it seemed as though Horace had sat
down first. A slim girl could have slid off
quickly, but Babe required reasonable notice
for the performance. Fred stood waiting for
a clean break, and, like Wellington at Water-
loo, “this crisis caught of destiny,” and, again
like that great commander, he ordered an
advance of all his forces. Babe had gone
to the sofa and after a small scream had
subsided with some sobbing. Horace was
confronted with the crude ways of the West
and seemed to derive no support, from the
sublime philosophy of the unchanging East.
He held on to a chairback and waggled at the
knees.
Fred was genuinely surprised at the revela-
tion of Babe’s folly, but he faced the posi-
tion without fury.
“You need not be afraid of divorce,” he
said to Horace, "but I am going to give yon
one on the nose so that you will have some
black eyes to tell lies about, and then I am
going to kick you out of the house.”
Babe put her hands over her ears and
started for her room, but Fred detained her.
“You must stay here,” he said. “You have
a front seat at this show.”
Horace tried to get out of the way, but
Fred’s right performed in accordance with
the forecast and Horace reeled away with his
hand pressed to his face.
“Oh my nose,” he cried.
“Oh my carpet,” said Babie, suddenly
evincing an intelligent interest in the pro-
ceedings.
Fred did not hurry about his job; he
desired that the scene should long remain
in the memory' of all parties. With studied
deliberation -lie opened the door into the
hall and the front door beyond, leaving Babe
and Horace alone together for a few
moments; then he carefully got a shoulder
grip of Horace and with knee-kicks pro-
pelled him step by step across the room.
A kick of this kind properly delivered causes
considerable discomfort to the victim and
detracts greatly from his natural dignity.
Kick by kick Horace went to the front
door and a mighty toe-kick as he reached the
edge of the verandah was an assistance to
him in his journey to the station. Suburban
residents know how desirable it is to get a
good start when they are going for a train.
Horace got off to a flying start.
Fred next turned his attention to Babe.
He propelled her, “using no more force or
violence than was necessary,” as common-
law pleaders put it, to her bedroom, and
locked the doors.
“You are not going to be such a brute
as to beat me in the way common people beat
their wives! Oh, Fred, you won’t —I didn’t,
commit the sin !”
“You are not a sinner that way,” said
Fred, “but you have been a damn naughty
little girl, and you have to be punished like
other naughty little girls.”
He used the word “damn” advisedly, for
he knew that a woman will always sit up
and take notice when she hears it. It is
not often necessary for publication but is
always accepted as an evidence of good faith.
“But,” he said, “there are some other
things I want to mention. You’ve got to
stop waggling or else you’ll get some more
of what you are going to get now. It’s
no use your screaming; you know the
houses on each side are empty. Another
thing, you’ve got to leave off being ’Babe.’
You’ve been ‘Babe’ for twenty-six years”
“Not till the third of next month.”
“And in future you must call yourself
Jane”
“Father used to call me Jinny”
“Very well, make it Jinny,” he said. “And
those curtains have got to come down to-
morrow morning.”
A shudder was her only reply; she did not
dare to waggle.
Then he looked over her collection of
hairbrushes. There was one of them that
she had always complained about because
it was so heavy and had such a long handle.
WILFRED BLACKET.
Ages Since.
As adown a track I strayed,
Walled by forest-growth,
Folk were sleeping in their beds.
Not so were the wind and I;
Restless were we both.
Maybe by the time and place
Moulded was my mood;
For it seemed to me the wind
Told a something to the trees
That they understood.
All about me in the gloom
Nodded tree and tree,
As the midnight wind to each
Tidings straiige and mystical
Told in secrecy.
Tidings, mystical and strange,
Yet familiar, too,
Known to me when once I roamed,
Ages since, and aeons since,
Ancient forests through.
While above me through the trees
Whispers stirred and ran,
Dreamed I of a gift I had
When I was a forest child
Or a sylvan man.
Then with friendly trees around,
Lone I walked and long,
Wise in woodland lore, with birds
Telling me sweet secrecies,
Teaching me sweet song.
Though this humdrum world of ours
Still has rosy tints,
Still has laughter, love and song,
Something beautiful it lost
Ages, ages since.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


15he
BILLABONG
Australian Centrifugal Pump
The BILLABONG CENTRIFUGAL is typical of the
quality and efficiency of all pumps made under our
name. It is the best type of pump for raising large quan-
tities of water for irrigation and other purposes; and has
a greater capacity—size for size—than any other style.
Large waterways are provided, and the casing may be
turned so that the suction and delivery may be adjusted
to any angle. The output can be varied considerably
without loss of efficiency.
The “Billabong”
Double-Acting
Piston Pump
BILLABONG DOUBLE-ACT-
ING PISTON PUMPS are
specially adapted to meet the
demand for a medium-priced
power pump to be operated
by kerosene or petrol engines,
or other belt power. The
BILLABONG combines ample
power and large capacity in
the most compact form.
The Base, Cylinder, Bearings and one Cylinder Head are cast in
one piece ensuring the alignment of Gearing and giving an
unusually rigid construction.
đ
d
The “Billabong”
Hydraulic Ram
The BILLABONG HYDRAULIC RAM
is a self-acting Pump, which, placed
by a running stream of sufficient fall,
will work every hour of the day
every day of the year, with but the
slightest attention.
Of all Pumping Plants the Billabong
Hydraulic Ram is by far the cheapest
to run, and is a most reliable pumping
plant for supplying water to Factories,
Dairies, Stock Yards, Homesteads,
Small Towns, Irrigation Areas, etc.
All through the hours of night and day the Billa-
bong works steadily on, and there’s no fuel costs
to pay.
s —•*
SEND FOR OUR PUMP CATALOGUE.
It contains illustrations and descriptions of Spray Pumps, Hand
and Power Pumps, Pump Accessories, etc.
JOHN DANKS &SON PTY.LTD.
s
n
591-403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Selfishness of Baida.
[The third of Mr. Stedman’s fascinating stories
of life in Mongolia.]
GALSAN is a lama, not of high rank, but
a lama nevertheless.
Meeting him one would know it
by his shaven head, his collarless coat and
the absence of the knife which every other
Mongol carries. Also if one looks well one
sees the tea-bowl thrust far in the bosom, a
necessary utensil, for without it Galsan
could not accept the hospitality of neighbors
—he may not use the cup of a layman.
Mounted on his horse Galsan begins his
visits early. He rides slowly, counting the
rosaries, thinking the while of sacred things.
Now and again his thoughts wander in other
avenues, and he turns his horse recollecting
an urta where the inhabitants were particu-
larly kind upon his last visit.
Soon after his arrival his tea-bowl is ex-
tracted and put to good use. Other Mongols
break their purposeless journeys happy of an
opportunity to have a talk. The main topic
of conversation are their herds, and these
arc discussed with great animation. But
after a while the conversation begins to lag
for want of material; and then Galsan comes
to the rescue. He tells a story and his
audience sits enthralled, their heads nodding
occasionally.
Before commencing Galsan extracts his
snuff-box, which is passed around until it
comes back to the hands of the owner. Then
he begins.
* * * *
Selfishness is the father of many other
evil feelings. Envy springs from it, and
jealousy is its child. Now this is the story
of Baida, whom the gods destroyed because
of his selfishness.
Baida lived in the south of our land, where
the Gobi desert spreads its barren kingdom.
He was a man possessed of many sheep,
horses, cattle and camels, and his two wives
were healthy women. And the love of these
women he jealously guarded, refusing to
share it even with the stranger who spent
the night under his roof. Soon, therefore,
men began to shun his urta, preferring to
travel through the night in storms rather
than spend it with a man who was so ill
disposed. Nor were his wives happy, for
no man must take possession of a woman
and keep her entirely to himself, because a
young woman is an inexhaustible source of
pleasure, and though she must be a help to
one, she may give happiness to many, and
to give happiness is a good deed. So Baida
led a lonely life, having little intercourse
with his fellow man because of his selfish
love.
Now, one day a stranger entered his urta.
He was not only a stranger in that region,
but a stranger also to the land, for he had
light hair and blue eyes. No one knew
whence he came, but he must have travelled
far, for he was spent and footsore.
Baida received him with no favor: he sat
smoking his pipe, but not offering it; nor
did the newcomer seem to see aught amiss
therein. Even when night fell and he was
left to sleep alone, he did not feel insulted,
for he was ignorant of the customs of our
land. Only the younger wife of Baida took
pity upon him.
On the morrow she noticed the stranger’s
peculiar manners and thought him bereft
of reason. For he removed his clothes and
washed himself in the river, albeit it is
wrong to pollute the clear waters with the
dirt of one’s body. And when he recovered
strength his behavior was stranger still,
for he commenced digging holes in the side
of a mountain! From morning till night
he labored thereat, while men, hearing of it,
came from distant places to see for them-
selves the pale man without reason.
One day while they sat smoking their
pipes the stranger appeared, and the on-
lookers felt almost afraid of him, for he was
laughing and shouting and showing every-
body fragments of yellow earth he had
found, After a while the men laughed;
whereupon Baida’s wife, pained that one
should laugh at another’s affliction, caught him
by the hand and led him into her urta, and
gave him milk to drink and put him on the
woollen mats and covered him with her own
coat. For she was full of sorrow for one
who would dig holes in the side of a moun-
tain, labor as though driven by evil spirits
and be happy because he had found a
few pieces of yellow earth. Had it been
silver one could understand it, because silver
may be used for ornamenting saddles. No
doubt, she told herself, he was suffering for
some great sin committed, and a woman
should take pity on him.
But Baida, being selfish, thought other-
wise. He entered the wife’s urta at night
and found her lying close to the stranger,
warming him with her body. And at that
Baida ordered the stranger to leave the
urta, thus breaking the ancient custom of
his people; and thereby also he called upon
himself the gods’ displeasure. So the man
departed ’an'd was forced to sleep in the
open like a wolf. And thereafter he went
about offering people pieces of yellow earth
in exchange for meat and miVs, but no one
would accept them, for they had no use.
One night, driven thereto by a great
hunger, he stole a sheep and killed it; and
it was Baida whom the gods held responsible
for this great transgression. But, apart
from the gods, only Baida’s wife knew of
the stealing, and she said nothing.
And the stranger continued digging at
the mountain and storing up the yellow
earth while Baida’s wife supplied him with
milk and cheese, and made him a pair of
sheepskin trousers, for winter was approach-
ing. But now, since selfishness begets sus-
picion, Baida began to watch his wife.
Throughout long, cold nights h e kept a
vigil; but his wife watched him likewise,
and went to the man only when she found
an opportune time.
For long she eluded his watchfulness; but
one night he saw her mount her horse and
ride towards the mountain, and Baida fol-
lowed her. It was a bad night; cold winds
blew, driving clouds of snow, whose blinding
fury was beyond description. But the wife
rode on, for she was bent upon an errand
of mercy; and Baida followed. And when he
reached the side of the mountain he found
his wife straining every muscle to put the
half-frozen man into the saddle of her horse.
Anger seized Baida, and, deprived of reason
by his selfishness, he pushed his wife away,
and, letting the man fall on the snow-
covered ground, he smote the horse with his
whip. Feeling his freedom the horse
neighed loudly and disappeared in the white
waste.
“Thou art my wife,*’ Baida said to the
woman, “and thou hast come here without
my consent. Now get back as best thou
canst!”
Having spoken, Baida was about to
mount his horse when his wife did that
which no Mongolian woman had evbr done
before. Seizing the man’s gun, she com-
manded Baida to give his warm coat to the
freezing man. “Thou art unworthy to be
a woman’s husband,” she said to him, “for
thou hast broken the law and refused help to
one in need.”
Her manner of speech was such that
Baida feared disobeying, for a woman is
what the moment makes her. So Baida
put his coat upon the man, and then she
told him to tie the stranger on to the saddle.
“I shall leave thee here,” she said to her
husband, “and if thou canst reach the urta
I will take it as a sign that Burchan has
forgiven thee and so shall I.” A moment
later the white steppes swallowed her.
When the storm ceased Baida’s body was
found inside the hole the stranger had dug,
whither he had crawled for shelter. The
gods had not forgiven him, and his selfish-
ness had destroyed him. But the man who
was almost dead Baida’s wife nursed back
to health.
* * * *
The story is finished. Galsan lights his
pipe, and so do his listeners. No one
speaks. Presently one by one they mount
their horses and ride away well pleased with
the day spent, and looking forward con-
tentedly to the morrow.
S. STEDMAN.
Retrieval.
Through casements open to the night
Red floods of lustre played.
Around the floor in rapt delight
Young couples danced and swayed
Within the district banquet hall
Of corrugated roof and wall,
Remote from haunts of trade.
I rocked and whirled a reckless pace
To music fiercely plied,
Till sober thought assumed the place
Of hope that in me died,
While rasping chords and crazy tunes
Inspired by Mississippi coons
My early trust belied.
No homely notes were fluted, sprung
From native-born delight;
My country-men and -women flung
To jazzing numbers trite.
To seek the friendship of the stars,
Past ranks of standing motor-cars
I strode into the night.
But faring home with measured stride
By starlit shrub and tree,
Prophetic pulses throbbed beside
And paced the track with me.
I visioned hope in fruiting flower,
While sweetly revelled one brave hour
My couutry.’s minstrelsy.
Clear notes of promise finely wrought
Enriched the yield of day;
Revealing lines of truth were sought,
And trust resumed its sway,
While youth and maid, in high delight,
To lilting measures woke the night
And danced regret away.
The songs which touch the stalwart heart
Were gladly spoke and sung;
The lays blithe happiness impart
Were played and piped and strung,
While waratah and wattle gold
And native blossoms manifold
In glad profusion sprung.
The griefs of lost, forgotten souls
Pursued by wanton fate
Expired beneath the glowing coals
Of lyric fires elate,
And brooding hearts no longer grieved
While singing ’planes of commerce cleaved
The spaces desolate.
Faith, strength and freedom fearless went .
To succor front and rear,
Their pregnant values wholly blent
With Lalor’s summons clear
That called the rebels on parade
At old Eureka’s barricade
Ere onslaught volleyed near.
Songs wrought of wool and gold and grain
Reclaimed the seasons fled
That sent the bold exploring train
To win the wastes ahead.
Songs wrought of sun and lustrous star,
And peace we cherish after war-
Bestowal of our dead.
From kindling hills a mellow breeze
The drooping leaves caressed
And thrilled the morn with melodies
Which hope eternal stressed- —
Clear native notes that Kendall heard,
The chords his brother-singers stirred
And Lawson’s soul expressed.
N.S.AV.
GERARDY.


• ••
%
; it '
,vv-
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—nOLMES A CHCItCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide, S.A.
“BITUMASTIC” Specialties.
TRIED AND TESTED FOR THE PAST 70 YEARS
“Bitumastic” Black Solution, to prevent Corrosion.
“Bituros,” for preservation of Drinking-water Tanks—
tasteless and odorless.
“Bitumastic ,? Colored Enamels—an economical paint for
all purposes, in a range of 15 colors.
“Bituplastic.” A plastic, bituminous waterproofing com-
pound, in red and black, for Roofs, Walls, etc.
Manufacturers; WAILES, DOVE BITUMASTIC, LTD., Newcastle-on-Tyne.
SOLE AGENTS-
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
đ
haY'D-Vac
The Mark of Superior duality
HERE'S an electric torch that's
a dandy—dark nooks and
corners hold no secrets from you—
safety at night is always assured—
it s theßay - 0-Lite, the best you can
buy. Strong vulcanized fibre case,
corrugated for easy grip heavy
brass trimmings, nickel plated
and polished—patented lock
switch, cushioned to
prevent lamp break-
age,— these and
other advantages
are the
reasons
why you
should use a
Ray-O-Li t e.
Equipped with Ray-
O-Vac Batteries, you have a
dependablesource of light worth
its cost the first few nights you use it.
Write our distributor for the name of
your nearest dealer,
French Battery Company
MADISON, WISCONSIN, U. S 7 A.
Distributor:
UNITED DISTRIBUTORS, Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane, Australia,
Wellington, New Zealand.
4000 SATISFYING SHAVES
IN ONE
PAZOR
Guaranteed x Kept
in order for two years free*
RAZOR And share with thousands of others the
.comfort that shave aftershave of satin smooth-
qs to users of THE PLUM RAZOR-r
Pair in
VvOT
''M
CRAIG &AITKEN,6S4 GEORGE SUYDIfiH
Thiouqhout
(^.Australasia
presentation Case
] )j 25/post Free
m
'r\ r\ (
n § p
>' s «C'\,
7M
una
hi
Cylinders
MARINE ENGINES
Marine Engines are made
with the precision of a watch, all parts
evenly balanced, eliminating vibration «nd
friction. More power with less fuel.
All Parts Standard and Inter*
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.,
HALL BROS., LTD.,
Careening Cove (foot of Willoughby St.L
Milson's Point, North Sydney, N.S.W.
'
ICermath Manufacturing Co.'
Detroit. Mich.. U. S. A.
Csblc Address i—KERMATH
This year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
HARBOR TOURIST
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m,
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Tares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
.Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY „t a No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
1.1,., BKU u ll.»). 1/6 , “• p.rri.B, Ltd.
o°
e
2
f
.••;* id
.** ,•** ..** MS^O. 6l^
..•** .*•*


Cradled in Springs-
-82% of its wheelbase
EXTRA long springs covering over four-fifths
of the entire wheelbase, which cradle pass-
engers and car alike from shocks created by
roads, make riding in the Erskine Six at all
speeds a new and delightful motor-
ing experience.
Added comfort too, is afforded by
the careful designing of the interior.
You will realise this as you step
through one of its wide doors.
Plenty of head and leg room even
for a six-foot man who will find
the seating arrangements entirely
comfortable.
See it to-day! The more you
know of motor cars, the better you
will like this Little Aristocrat.
ERSKINE
Studebahers
Little Aristocrat
TOURER
£298
SEDAN
£368
PRICES:
F.O.R. SYDNEY
Complete with four wheel brakes,
5 balloon tyres, bumper bars front
and rear, rear vision mirror, auto-
matic windscreen wiper, thief-
proof lock, petrol gauge on dash*
Australian and "New Zealand Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
The Studebaker CovpoYUtion of Aits txcilasici. Limited f Sydney
VICTORIA:
Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd.
' 1-45 Pier Street. Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.)
Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd,
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important towns.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
hJillingens, Limited,'
42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Adams High Street.
|V~^¥
A
/
WEB 32
