

of delight
a
in
Pour a brimming glass of K.B. Lager. See the
rich, tawny hue of the sparkling liquor . . . bright
as liquid sunshine . . . clear . . . enticing . . . and
absolutely pure.
For at every stage in its brewing by every known
scientific and hygienic means—the most scrupulous
care is exercised to place K.B. on your table in
this state of perfect purity. And with it there is
health . . . enjoyment . . . refreshment . . . where
the glittering beads are dancing in a goblet of
delight. K.B. is a TRUE Lager.
TOOTHS
.V 5
k:se
ue
«1
ER
I A
- r
/.s
r =
T& S
%/
? \
1
— J
*s
Js
7 4
A'
i
BreW and Bottled by TOOTH & Co. LIMITED, Kent Brewery SYDNEY,
The Bulletin
ANOTHER STEELE RUDD STORY.
Vol. 49.—N0. 2513.
Wednesday, April 11, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


VjVRITE for the library catalogue and
lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to—
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, DTD.,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
EeAmeJwgjSS 1
This BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ‘
My Name
My Address
lysaght*
o
B
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
i§s
Of any Hranch oP
™ NATIONAL BANK
you may obtain Copies of its Informative Booklets
7 entitled
SERVICES & FACILITIES
AND
ARE YOU GOING ABROAD?
These Publications Convey n\uch use Pul
Information and Indicate the Various
■Ways in Which the Ban\ may be
helpful to you
They show that the Bank’s Service
covers the Financial side oP Primary
Secondary Production, Land Settle-
rnent,Trade & Commerce. Investments
Loans, Overseas Business & Tourist"
Requirements
COPIES MAY BE OBTAINED AT ANY OF THE BANK’S BRANCHES
NATIONAL BANK
Of AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Cajof/a/ Paid up
Total Ass®ta in 1917
000, 000
Toha! Assef-s in 1927
£42,909,726
jm
'M,
BALANCED FOODS FOR DOGS
With the aid of a force of chemists and bacteriologists, together with
the whole hearted co-operation of one of the great VETERINARY
Colleges, we have succeeded in developing the PERFECT DOG-
FOODS.
80% of all dog ailments are attributable to improper feeding. Meat
must form the base of all foods for dogs or other carnivora. There
is no substitute for meat as an essential food for dogs. The products
of the “HOUSE OF CHAPPEL” are MEAT foods packed in tins.
Favourably known to the veterinary profession in Great Britain and
America as:
MARO-MEAT
HEMO-RATION
PUP-E-RATION
■lso the supreme soap for all dogs known as KEN-L-SOPE
WANTED —DISTRIBUTORS
to handle the sales of these Internationally known and
Advertised products in:
New South Wales
Victoria
Queensland
South Australia
Western Australia
Tasmania
Kindly Address All Communications to:
The Manager, CHAPPEL BROS., Inc.
ROCKFORD, ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
Bankers references given and required
Cable Address: CHAPPEL Rockford Codes: A. B.C M Liebers Fifth Edition
■
l:. r
A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE.
THE GREfll KtO OOTRQyER.
( rhcx
Fleas,
Buffy
S toquloa
i|-
36
MUSTDIE’
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecti-
cide or common insect powders, some of
which are sold under fancy names, for
“MUSTDIE” contains an ingredient par-
ticularly fatal to that common house pest
aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers,
or forward 1/- in stamps to Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney. m
The Red Page
Kendall and Michael
Although Henry Kendall spent much of
his boyhood in the northern valley of the
stately Clarence, it was not until 1861 that
he came to Grafton. Previous to this he
had received some slight recognition as a
poet, and had been encouraged to take up
his residence in Sydney. On the removal
of his friend and patron Michael, Kendall
accompanied him to the northern township
in the capacity of clerk. Michael soon
established a lucrative practice, specialising
in land law. The position which Kendall
occupied was, however, practically a sine-
cure, and he had ample opportunity for
studying the beauty of the countryside.
At this period Grafton was hemmed in on
all sides by virgin forest, in which flourished
many beautiful birds and shy woodland
creatures. The isolation was almost com-
plete, the only means of communication
with the outside world being by river. It
soon became the delight of the poet to
roam among the stately trees and pliant
vines. On the banks of the numerous clear
streams which fed the parent river grew
the beautiful softwoods which have now
almost vanished beneath the stroke of the
axe of pioneer and teamster. The grandeur
of the wooded heights and plains and the
splendor of the dells made an ineffaceable
impression upon the poet’s beauty-loving
soul. Inspiration came to him, and his
joy and wonder found vent in song which
breathes true love of this land of ours and
its matchless beauty.
It was but a short time before the river
cast its magic spell over the heart of the
poet. The wondrous sunsets and the glory
of the teeming life upon its broad bosom
proved an irresistible attraction. In order
to enjoy longer expeditions he purchased a
small boat and built himself a cabin. He
was thus able to spend several days at a
stretch on the reaches of the river.
His favorite spot was where the Orara
enters the Clarence at Ramornie. Anyone
who visits this scene now will gaze upon a
far different prospect. Gone is the forest
and on all sides the hand of man is revealed.
When Kendall knew it the solitude was un-
broken. The trees grew thickly on either
side of the river, and, meeting overhead,
formed a leafy canopy entwined with mon-
key-ropes and other vines. Through a
gentle twilight flowed the clear waters of
the Orara, with its source in the distant
hills. The sunlight filtering down through
the foliage formed golden filigree on the
dim water and the fern-decked banks. Close
to the water’s edge grew the branching
cedar, the stately sycamore and the slim
and beautifully dappled myrtle. It was an
ideal haunt for the rifle and regent birds
and the water-loving bellbird, which builds
its finely-woven hanging nest on the vines
that cling to the riverine trees. It was
most likely in this fairy bower that the in-
spiration to write “The Bellbirds” was
vouchsafed to Kendall:—
Through brakes of the cedar and sycamore bowers
Struggles the light that is love to the flowers;
And, softer than slumber, and sweeter than singing,
The notes of the bellbirds are running and ringing.
What happy hours must the voyager have
spent in this paradise as he slowly plied
the oars or reclined at ease gazing on the
scene! Too brief was his enjoyment. The
hurly-burly of life was soon around him
once more, for he returned to Sydney in
1862.
The poet had, however, derived much
benefit from his stay. He had gained a
truer and deeper insight into nature, and
had, through his companionship with
Michael, considerably broadened his out-
look. Kendall was given free access to the
excellent library which the latter had
brought with him from oversea. A friend
of Ruskin and Millais, Michael was a keen
student and a philosopher. He was also a
polished man of the world, but prone to
extravagance and strong liquor. Intercourse
with such a man could not but exert con-
siderable influence on the poet. The soli-
citor was always kind to his youthful pro-
tege, and did all he could to develop his
character and strengthen his will.
Kendall’s stay was by no means unpro-
ductive, for he was a frequent contributor
to the local paper, which ran a poets’
corner every Tuesday. It would be a mat-
ter of interest to investigate the old files
if they are still in existence. It is very
unfortunate that his stay was not longer,
for with greater leisure and more beautiful
surroundings he might have done better
work in the country.
James Lionel Michael was of coarser fibre
than Kendall. His sojourn in Grafton
added little to the small total of his work,
most of which is very slight. I have been
told that whilst living in Grafton he wrote
a prose version of "John Cumberland,” and
that it was privately circulated; it con-
tained, it is said, several very licentious
passages. I have not been able to secure a
copy.
Michael eventually became involved in
financial difficulties. Unable to stand the
strain, he grew despondent; and his body
was found floating in the Clarence. There
is little doubt from the pathetic poem
which, he left on his table that he took his
own life. His remains were interred in the
Grafton cemetery. A simple headstone of
marble, from which his name, has been
almost erased by the wind and rain, per-
petuates his memory.
H.E.D.
Dowell O’Reilly
Here is a book tor whi ch we could hardly
have hoped, in a world where letter-writing
is supposed to be over and letter-preserving
wholly dead. Dowell O’Reilly From His
Letters is an instance of brilliant letter-
writing, and the salvaging of this large
group of consecutive letters, written from
1913 to 1917, is an act of faith and devotion
requiring our unmixed gratitude. They
were all addressed from Sydney to Dowell
O’Reilly’s cousin in England before the two
had met. The correspondence closes with
her arrival in Australia on the eve of their
marriage.
In a way, this book was owing to us.
Dowell O’Reilly was a man with marked
literary gifts, yet for various reasons, not
all his own affair, he had published very
little. The book published posthumously in
1924, “The Verse and Prose of Dowell
O’Reilly,” contained most of his completed
work except a few essays, and it was not
overcrowded. That book has its own value,
gathering together O’Reilly’s early verse, his
fantastic, allegorical story, “Tears and Tri-
umph,” and his rarely delicate short stories,
most of which had previously appeared in
the volume mainly of Bulletin reprints
called “Fivecorners.” The essential quality
of O’Reilly was what might be called a
lively fastidiousness. His zeal for the right
word and the right phrase was fed by his
passion for life. He had sympathy, tact
and wit-, all expressed in terms of literature.
It is idle to discuss what he might have
produced in a more favorable environment.
It is enough, for the present, to remind our-
selves that his “Verse and Prose” exists in
a collected volume, and now to settle down
to this volume of letters. The only pos-
sible way to show its quality is to
quote from it; yet every quotation is spoilt
by being torn from its setting, in which
even the most inconsequent seeming topics
and diversions take on a harmonious grace.
The series opens in 1913 with a discus-
sion on the suffragettes, apropos of “Tears
and Triumph,” which had been oddly
accepted by the women’s organisations as a
feminist* tract. With a smile O’Reilly
writes:—
One of the brainiest women in Australia said of it,
summing up its chief fault in her eyes, “I can’t find
myself in it!” A woman is never tired of “finding
herself” in book, mirror—and baby. A man is always
trying to lose himself—exploring.
That is a sort of text with O’Reilly, but he
seldom writes to a text. Perhaps he glances
at it here again:—
I am certain my growth depends on the pain (all
growth is pain) of reading a forcible attack on my
ideas. My ideas! How impregnated through and
through we all are—men and women—-by that supreme
instinct of life, the parental instinct. My ideas!
Poor sickly deformed things often, yet how we love
them....
Again and again O’Reilly analyses words,
his own or his correspondent’s, to find the
idea latent in the core of them, not always
a flattering one: —
I liked the remark that my letters arrived in
“eovieys”—till I remembered (their quality and
realised that the unexpressed simile must have been
“coveys of chattering, garish-colored, egoistic
parrots!”
As the book goes on, it becomes, among
other things, a commentary on war-days in
Australia. In 1916 O’Reilly is like a sensi-
tised plate, anxious for the success of
Hughes’s plans and at the same time under-
standing many of the impulses on the other
side. He foresaw the first “No” vote, and
describes how the first results came through
in the small hours, after which he slept. He
then writes:—
I was suddenly awakened by showers of stones
thrown violently against my window! Don’t be
alarmed, Darling, it was only God. The heaviest
hailstorm semi-tropical Sydney has ever known. Hail-
stones hopped from the grate out on to my green
carpet, dozens of them, like large plums. Peering
through the window, I saw my delicate ferns beaten
flat under a drift of white ice.... A marvellous
storm! Did it express divine displeasure at those
“No” cheers? Who Nos!
The next page is solemn again, discussing
the philosophy of conscription, the hopes
of the anti-militarists and their vagueness.
Those of us who remember the storm and
bitterness of those days will feel that he
has caught their confused emotion and re-
corded it.
Often, though, he records sheer love-
liness for its own sake:—
Crossing the harbor to-day, dead green under low
thunder-clouds, the rain suddenly came down. First,
great scattered drops, each with its momentary
bubble and upward splash. Then heavier and
heavier till the flat surface shivered, danced, in an
ecstasy of motion that was emotion—if we could
se« our skin tingling, surety the “tingle” would
look just like that? And away up and down the
harbor the movement merged into the loveliest film
of white. I tell you this because—at 50 years!—
1 was delighted to be able to discover so much new
beauty in raindrops on the sea, that I have always
loved to watch.
Not the only loveliness that he had always
loved to watch! He writes of “the lure
(Continued on page 5.)


« Truth in Advertising ” means much to us and more to you
Compare Quality for Quality and Price for Price
Anthony Hordern
Blankets, Quilts and Linoleum
Blankets
For warmth and finish Aus-
tralian Blankets, which are
amongst the most famous pro-
ducts of Australian industry,
compare very favorably with
those manufactured in any other
part of the world. Anthony
Horderns’ —always alert in
the interests of the public—
select the finest productions of
the Mills, and are therefore
able to offer a comprehensive
range of blankets of absolute
excellence.
The following are sizes and
prices of Australian-made Blan-
kets selected from Anthony
Horderns’ stock.
Size 72in. x 54in. For single
beds. Per Pair: 27/6, 31/-,
32/6, 34/-, 37/6.
Size 81 in. x 63in. For three-
quarter beds. Per Pair: 36/6,
41/-, 42/6, 45/- and 47/6.
Size 90in. x 72in. For double
beds. Per Pair: 45/6, 50/6,
55/-, 56/6 and 58/6.
Size 99in. x 8 1 in. For double
beds. Extra large size. Per
Pair: 56/-, 63/-, 65/-, 72/6
( Blankets—First Floor;
We Pay Carriage.)
Mattresses
Anthony Horderns’ Mattresses
are made with strong striped
covers and filled with high-
grade Kapok. The deep tuft-
ing prevents the Kapok from
shifting, spreading or becoming
uneven. Walls are to in.
high. Kapok filling has been
specially selected because of its
natural sanitary qualities, and
being ideal for soft, comfort-
able, springy mattresses,
ft. in. Each.
2 6 Kapok Mattress £l/10/-
3 0 Kapok Mattress £2/12/6
4 6 Kapok Mattress £4/7/6
4 6 Kapok Mattress £5/-/-
4 6 Kapok Mattress £6/7/6
4 6 Kapok Mattress
in exquisite floral
designs £6/15/-
Kapok Pillows—
Each .... 5/-, 6/-, 7/-, 9/S
{Department Third Floor —■
Carnage Not Paid.)
OUR “D.P.S ”
WILL HELP YOU
Select future requirements
now. Simply leave a small
deposit and pay the bal-
ance in convenient instal-
ments. Goods are carefully
stored until fully paid for.
m
wag*
hm
/I design suitable for every room
British Linoleum Squares
Housewives who desire the beauty and elegance of
Carpets, at a fraction of their cost and twice their
ease in cleaning, should secure one of these All-
British Linoleum Squares.
There are designs and sizes of untold variety, offer-
ing examples for every room in the house.
No. 1 Quality.
Sizes. Prices.
No. 2 Quality.
Sizes. Prices.
Printed Linoleum
We offer an unrivalled selection of Printed
Linoleum in every style of design, including
Parquet, Tile, Floral and Matting effects, in almost
every successful combination of coloring.
No. 1 Quality .... Per Running Yard .... 7/3
No. 2 Quality . . . ; . Per Running Yard .... 6/11
No. 3 Quality .... Per Running Yard .... 5/3
All British Inlaid Linoleums
The pattern is genuinely inlaid right through, ensur-
ing an always clean and well-wearing surface.
Parquetry and straight Tile effects are included.
The prices quoted are for the full width of six feet.
Qualities 1. 3. 4.
Per Yard 17/3 12/6 9/3
(Carriage Not Paid.)
FLOOR COVERINGS—FOURTH FLOOR.
Down Quilts
New stocks of Down Quilts are
being opened almost daily at
Anthony Horderns’, and the
range of latest designs and
colorings now presented is
genuinely excellent. Buy now,
for at the commencement of
the season the range of choice
naturally is most complete.
Quality considered, every quilt
offered is most moderately
priced.
Down Quilts, in Figured Cam-
bric. Plain Sateen panel; piped
edges. Size 6ft. x 4ft., ea. 30/-
6ft. x 5 ft. Each 37/6
In Figured Cambric. Plain
Sateen panel and border. Size
6ft. x 4ft., ea. 33/6. 6ft. x sft.
Each 42/-
In Figured Cambric. Plain
Satin panel and border. Size
6ft. x 4ft., ea. 45/-. 6ft. x 5 ft.
Each 57/6
In Figured Sateen. Plain Sateen
panel and border. Size 6ft. x
4ft., ea. 42/6. 6ft. x 5 ft.
Each 52/6
In Figured Sateen. One wide
Sateen panel and 1 in. strap-
ping. Size 6ft. x 4ft., ea. 59/6.
6ft. x sft. Each ...... 72/6
In Figured Sateen. Wide Satin
panel. Size 6ft. x 4ft., ea,
65/-. 6ft. x sft. Each . . 75/-
In Figured Satin. Plain Satin
panel and border. Size 6ft. x
4ft., ea., 85/-. 6ft. x 5 ft.
Each 100/-
In Figured Satin. Plain Satin
border; goffered panel. 6ft. x
5 ft. Each 135/-
In Figured Sateen, having plain
Sateen panel, with fancy strap-
pings, size 6ft. x 5 ft. Ea. 152/-
With Figured Satin Centre,
broad Satin border and two-
tone panel, size 6ft. x 5 ft.
Each 177/6
Figured centre and panel;
plain panel border. Size 6ft.
x 5 ft. Each 190/-
Figured centre and border;
fancy plain panel. Size 6ft. x
5 ft. Each 200/-
( Quilts —First Floor;
We Pay Carnage.)
POULTRY
CATALOGUE.
Every Poultry Keeper
should have a copy of this
interesting Catalogue. It
contains an excellent
article on Rearing and
Feeding Poultry by a Poul-
try Expert. Posted Free <?n
request.
Anthony Horderns’
and Sons, Limited,
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box No. 2712 C, G.P.O.


M off FERE# fs
BEr fe*
S
SMALL DEPOSITS
EASY TERMS
Complete with four-
wheel brakes, 5 balloon
tyres, bumper bars
front and rear, rear
vision mirror, auto-
matic windscreen
wiper, thief-proof lock,
petrol gauge on dash-
PRICES F.O.R,
SYDNEY
than any other small car
you have ever known
The performance qualities of Studebaker’s New
Erskine Six are truly amazing. It will accelerate
from 5 to 25 miles an hour in BV2 seconds, climb
an 11% gradient in top gear with full five-passenger
load, or travel at 60 miles an hour—if you care to
travel so fast.
It gives 25 miles to the gallon of petrol and 1200
miles to the gallon of oil. The spacious interior
provides ample leg and head room even for men of
six feet height. Yet this little Aristocrat turns in an
18 ft. radius and parks in al4 ft. space. The dis-
tinctive beauty of its graceful, low swung body is
another reason why Studebaker’s New Erskine Six
is the car selected bv the elect.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors j
NEW SOUTH WALES:
The Studehaker Corporation of Australasia Limited, Sydney
VICTORIA:
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd.
41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.)
Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important toums.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Millingens, Limited,
42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Adams Ltd., 152-154 High Street,
Christchurch.
H
'sjirr
=X
m
nil
WEB 38


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
sdf
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
Their Uniformed Interpreters at prin-
cipal ports and stations in Europe assist
their patrons in passing Customs
examinations, registering baggage, etc.
Passages Booked by all Lines.
Travellers’ Cheques Issued.
Insurance of Baggage Effected.
Escorted Tours to Europe, etc.
Empire Farmers’ Tour Great Britain.
Inclusive Independent Tours.
Summer Holiday Tours.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building*
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
of a mountain stream, the call to follow it
up” Again, “Sydney Harbor at night,
with its innumerable ferries with green and
red lights, is black opal.” Or he thinks of
camping days, “standing up and staring at
a great avalanche of ferns falling from the
mountain side down to the water’s edge.”
To many readers O’Reilly will be chiefly
interesting for his delicate psychological
distinctions. There is one letter, witty and
profound, in which he declares his intention
and right, as a man, not to be “managed”
by a woman. The whole passage is illumi-
nating, explaining a man’s desire for frank-
ness and dread of being sheltered from the
truth “for his own good.” It ends :
But where you think I have been wrong, do say
so—don’t bury the fact away, thinking to “manage”
this wise old dog who has a keen scent for anything
buried!
He had a keen scent in many directions, and
could record its impressions. The characters
of people who live in this book are inter-
preted with extraordinary sympathy, each
one seen almost always at its best, but
not. a standardised best. It remains to be
said that the unity of the book is such
that one has no sense of intrusion upon the
private lives of persons now living. These
characters had a reality in the mind
of Dowell O’Reilly, their sympathetic
“author”; and whatever interested him he
can endow with charm for us. That is
enough.
NETTIE PALMER.
Robespierre
I find it very difficult to accept Hilary
Lofting’s suggestion (R.P. 14/3/’2B) that
Robespierre, if he had lived, might have
consolidated the gains and established the
organisation of the Revolution. I sym-
pathise somewhat with Mr. Lofting’s pro-
test at the harsh colors of Lenotre’s and
Carlyle’s portraits, but I am forced to the
conclusion that their outlines are generally
accurate, and, in Lenotre’s case, fundamen-
tally correct.
Robespierre was Dictator in fact for the
briefest passage; as soon as he had grasped
the prize it began to crumble in his hand.
On April 3, ’94, Danton went to the guillo-
tine, and three months later his bitter
prophecy, “Vile Robespierre! You will fol-
low me,” was fulfilled. Almost anyone
whom fortune favors for a moment can
pluck power from turmoils like those of the
year 11. But it takes a Cromwell or a
Buonaparte to hold it; and Robespierre was
neither. The man who sat, uncertain and
hesitating, through the night of the ninth of
Thermidor, while his resources melted away
and his enemies gained heart from his in-
action, was no maker of States. He was a
man who had been carried up by a “fixed
idea”; who had no notion of compromise
and adaptation; who had lost touch with
human realities; who saw before him the
ruin of his obsession, and had no resources
beyond it.
He had come to power by the strength
of an idea. In an assembly where men
were lost in a turmoil of notions and
opinions, and where active principles were
lost in the vapors of endless theories, the
fact that he had one idea, and one only, was
a power. He alone was not confused or dis-
tracted; he was the only man who definitely
knew what he wanted. Because he wanted a
reality, when the others were groping after
chimeras, he got it. His reality was Terror
There is a suggestion of greatness in this
single-mindedness. But the judgment de-
pends on the result; and Robespierre’s one
idea ended in horrible failure.
Robespierre was an uncommon member
of a common class of men; he was of the
self-righteous reformers, the Prohibitionists
and Anti-Vice Crusaders of our day. He
saw the law as a weapon; to him the func-
tion of authority was not the protection of
peoples, but their subjugation to a harsh,
egotistical code. All who did not conform
to his idea of virtue were evil pests, fit
for the scaffold. There is a power that wars
against charity, and it lifted, Robespierre
above his fellows; but the horror of the
consequences drew men together against
him.
If he had possessed any of the skill of
mind of a great man of action he would
have seen the inevitable end of the course.
But his apotheosis blinded him. Mistake
after mistake reveals his inadequacy in
power. His extraordinary prestige fell in a
week beneath the shocks of his own wild
blunders. Robespierre the politician is a
figure fated to detestation by his weak-
ness more than by his cruelty. For his
failure in character and action rendered his
policy vain; and only a noble success could
compensate for the 1376 heads that fell
in the six weeks after Prairial.
Yet as a human figure, there is something
attractive in Robespierre; something that
Carlyle missed. As Mr. Lofting remarks,
one can feel for the poverty-stricken
young student with a burden of family dis-
grace who strove so tenaciously for know-
ledge and good repute. Whatever else he
may have been, he had more in him than
snivelling resentments and petty revenges.
His savagery was his policy; his instincts
were for kindlier things. I do not think
he can be understood unless one remembers
that he had a dog that loved him, and
friends who clung to him. No man was
more generous to his supporters; and
though one can think of his munificence as
policy, it was with no hope of reward that
Le Bas and his brother Augustin Robes-
pierre called to the Convention to sentence
them with him. One cannot merely despise
a man with whom other men have claimed
it an honor to die. „
D. P. MCGUIRE.
Literary Rewards
It is instructive to consider who have
been responsible for the few Australian
writers that have made a name for them
selves. In no case I can call to mind did
any of these owe anything to people with
money. In other countries it has been
looked on as one of the privileges of wealth
to encourage struggling authors. The doing
of it has not always been free from the
patronising spirit, but at least it has encour-
aged its recipients to continue their work.
With us it is different. Take three out-
standing names in our literary history—•
Marcus Clarke, Henry Kendall, T. A.
Browne. What did any of them owe to the
people who had money? Or, in our own time,
Louis Becke, Henry Lawson, Victor Daley,
“Steele Rudd” Davis. Whence did these
draw sustenance to carry on their work?
Certainly not from the so-called cultured
classes. The Bulletin and the Worker,
the former generally known as “The Bush-
man’s Bible” and the latter the recognised
organ of ' the laboring classes, kept them
alive. The bushman is not generally be-
lieved to be the most cultured of men;
much less is the laborer. Things have im-
proved somewhat since the days of Becke
and Daley, but it is still true that the two
journals named have done and are doing
more for the encouragement of Australian
literature than all the publications con-
trolled by wealth which in their own esti-
mation are the leaders of thought.
In every country, especially a young
country such as this, there must always be
a clash between politics and literature. The
political parties demand writers who will
cut and slash with effect. Cutting and
slashing may be good politics, but they are
rarely good literature. The fact that writers
have to earn their living—as they should
if we are to continue to be a strong and
virile race—cannot be overlooked. Jour-
nalism, which-in the main is either politics
or commerce (in this country commerce is
part of politics), is a ready way of attract-
ing sufficient notice to give one the cash
with which to carry on. But it is a severe
hardship for the author, the writer of work
that is to last, that is to express not a
one-eyed glance at the fleeting moment but
a sane, broad view of some one thing. Real
literature is just that—a sane, broad view,
adequately expressed, of some one thing.
It may not be—in fact, cannot be—the
whole thing, but it must be a true vision
of a certain phase of the thing. If it is
sufficiently well done, of a lasting phase, it
becomes what is known as a classic That
is to say, it lives not only for the moment
but for future generations, who because of
its general application can appreciate its
truth.
To those interested in politics it is quite
evident that all great political movements
have their genesis in the masses. They are
fought, resisted, toned down and finally
accepted. But great literature is not like
that. It springs from all sorts of sources.
Why, then, is it that its real encouragement
in this country comes from so few places,
aiid that those places from which encourage-
ment should come in abundance are gen-
erally barren as the blasted desert?
W. M. FLEMING.
A Satchel of Books
The Lord's Minstrel, by 0. M. Duncan
Jones (Heffer). The oft-told tale of St.
Francis of Assisi retold, with colored illus-
trations, for young readers.
Ancient Civilisations, by Donald A. Mac-
kenzie (Blackie). A vast body of histori-
cal research condensed without being made
indigestible, amply illustrated.
Mr. Teedles, by Thomas le Breton
(Werner Laurie). The gland treatment
offers opportunity for comic situations of
which the author fully avails himself.
Many Latitudes, by F. Tennyson Jesse
(Heinemann). Short stories on sea and
land by a well-known West Country writer—
English West Country. It’s a clever pen.
Glasgoic and the Clyde, by W. Dodgson
Bowman (Geoffrey Bles). “Glasgow,” de-
clares the author, “has been the bread-
winner of Scotland.” Here is a paean that
will make glad the heart of every Glaskie
man.
‘So You're Going to France, by Clara E.
Laughlin (Methuen). Here the author in-
vites us to leave the gold-beaten track and
penetrate beyond the sumptuous hotels and
stock exhibits —and see the France of the
French.
The Story of Greece and Rome, by J. C.
and H. G. Robertson (Dent). The main
object, well realised, is to enable the reader
to understand the nature of the contribution
the Greeks and Romans made to Western
civilisation.
Robbery under Laics, by J. C. Eldridge
(N.S.W. A. P. Trades Union). “A citation
of organised restriction of production by
Employers, Trusts and Combines” —one of
those pamphlets that do far more harm than
good, because they come to violent con-
clusions on half-truths.
Famous Trials (Geoffrey Bles). This is
a series edited by George Dilnot, and while
having fascination for the general public is
of value to legal men and criminologists,
because the editor has allowed the trials to
speak for themselves by giving evidence,
counsel’s addresses and judicial summings-up
in extenso. The trials so far dealt with
comprise one English, that of Patrick Mahon,
for the murder in 1924 of Emily Beilby
Kaye; two U.S.A., the Stanford White affair
and the murder in 1849 of Dr. Parkman by
Professor Webster of Harvard University;
and one typical French story of illicit pas-
sion, mystery and crime.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) uill be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
L.8.R.: Almost persuaded us..C.H.W.;
Thanks, but already handled... .E.J.C.: If there was
no reference to it in articles it probably meant that
vou might sell it elsewhere, and this paper kept
silent so as not to prejudice your chances H.8.L.:
Very labored Ningrat: We got drowsy towards the
end. Afraid you did, t 00... .H.M.W.: "‘The Ascetic”
is quite out of our line S.L.: Nothing wrong with
your writing, but. the story is pure imbecility....
J.R.P.: Your notion that “attempt” rhymes with
“different” is regrettable Olive H.: Weak tea,
over-sugared... .F.W.B.T. • Knew the city cove was
going to give the bully a hiding right from “ ‘A
long beer,’ he said, quietly”. .. .Marie H.: Feeble
emotion, merely jingled.... M. Don (Armadale) : All
most unlikely T.J.H.: Poor stuff D.8.8.H.:
No bite in “Mosquitoes” Billy: Wearisome
G.L.M.: “Tom yawned." We didn’t blame him
Duncan: Your shadows carry no weight R.C.: No
pulse in their formality B.O.B.: What is it meant
to be? It is certainly not verse....lshmael: Wanders
back G.E.8.: Artificial D.A.A.: Traces of live-
liness, but crude in execution:... 8.L.M.: The point
is that the superfluous word is like a bit of
scaffolding standing outside a finished building
E.F.M.: No yeast in your song of rising E.G.S.:
Those obvious rhymes are pitfalls... .E.M.R.: Effort
to be lyrical in unrhymed verse fails Swiper:
Bunkered Eden D.: Fruit yarn merely pulp
Ray B.: Too much wood in the tree verse Frank
C.: Unconvincing... .1.A.A.: Not much chance. Use
of rhymed form might help y0u.... J.McL.: Moon-
shine only Jim R. M.: Blank verse is mainly
blank cartridge... .E.L.P.: We prefix an “H”....
E.X.P.: The flames of destruction have it R.D.C.:
That sort of humor is somewhat wearisome
M.H.S.: Don’t care for the sonnets Bellerive; The
moving incident gets its space:—
“There’s news in the city
Of a big wreck at sea,”
To his eager wife
Exclaimed Denny Magee.
“Saints above! the poor souls!
A dreadful thing’s Fate!
I can picture their struggles,”
She did ejaculate.
“How many were drowned
In the cruel deep sea?”
“None; they were all saved,”
Said Denny Magee.
“You’re drunk, you old fool,”
Retorted he’s wife.
“Begone to your bed —
Beer’s ruining your life!”
... .H.R.McD.: Found the digging too hard in
“Buried Treasure”.... Molly L. S.: You must make
your characters interesting. Nobody would care
who killed the doctor M.H.P.: Not sufficient humor
to the ton G.A.8.: Telling a tale of Morgan, you
make one of your characters refer to a man “going
round looking like Ned Kelly”... .Woody: Yes, that’s
what it is H.S.: Dreary punning Geo. L.:
Weakly told Peter P.: Re “Dreaming”—wake
up !.... J.H.: Thought you were going to give the
thing a good point, but you missed it The Bear:
Couldn’t glean anything out of them —and the
gleaning was difficult with that pencil scrawl....
8.R.5.: “A young man who shall be nameless” will
certainly not need a name in The Bulletin ....
S.J.W.: Why rush to Russia for the background?
... .Frank W.: Not even words like “aposiopesically”
make it interesting... .D.L.: They married; they
were not happy. How very funny! Alice L.:
Fails; payment for the accepted piece has been
forwarded Kwam: We want a tonic ourselves after
reading it M.L.D.: Didn’t make us care a dump
who won or 105 t... .W.H.N.: Tiring yarn.... J.A.11.:
Poor stuff Roy M.: You stage your story in a
drinking shop and fill it with revolver shots and
five deaths. Evidently you think life is all beer
and skittles... .Edith H.: Blushful little love-story.
H.G.H.: Slight Trevdee: No space for the
man who washed his false teeth in the boarding-house
milk.... Rostand: Weakly handled.... Sonia H.: Not
improved... . H.M.: Your “Crayfish” didn’t agree with
us 5.8.: Slightly less than nothing in it....
Wee Willie: “Island” is barren; still you might try
again... .R.S.T.: You’re an unsophisticated youth
if the discovery that your girl friend wears pyjamas
creates all that excitement in y0u.... Ray M.:
Fortunately, that type of woman is not Australian,
although she has some tripey imitators —not worth
consideration in print... .A.S.N.: Where’s your
summer which is calling you “North... .where the
cold stars are gleaming” ?... .W. 8.: Too chattery.
Edith A.: Poor E.A.A.: Too close a version
of another yarn.... Tom M.: Amazed to learn that
the chief joy of living is to sit by a camp fire in the
bush “Where the sins of the city can be reviewed.”
....John M.: Unhumorous trick in verse... .W.C.:
“Autumn” is merely a single faded flower... .H.D.E.:
Not quite A.J.H.: You start well with the sword
hanging over Craig’s neck; then you become tedious.
.. . .D.H.E.: Too much uninteresting talkiness. ...
Midget: If we were awarding a prize for the dullest
chronicle this year, we’d award it to your “Exciting
Episode”... .J.C.R.: Very poor stuff.... Elgar O.:
One trite; the other unreal.... Alex. D.: Once we
read of “smouldering eyes” we know that sooner or
later they will “flash with flame.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.E.: The one in which the abo. appears is the
best, but you will have to put in a lot more “pretty
tough study” yet J.C.: Like your cheerful note,
but they are “very poor attempts” G. 8.: You’re
optimistic, if not artistic... .J.D.: The joke was
shooed off the premises long ago, and the sketch is
only middling M. J.: Humor is strained and draw-
ing strains the eyes.... J.K.: You will never offer
any serious opposition to those now supplying us
with drawings... .H.S.D.: No comic-strip stuff, once
more M.H.: Shaky linework and crooked perspec-
tive... .S.E.N.: Your knowledge of anatomy is sadly
incomplete... .T.0.D.: Ballroom scene reminiscent of
a corner of Stonehenge... .L.R.: Full-page circus
sketch dumped C.R.H.: Don’t want it.


sdf
;
m
m
A
/
/ * •,1 '
fv\_. -mi
' ' ■ •„ I|L IP% x 1\ \ ?J
iwrv
/
ill*
iftiil
-~3Ssm
©
\
■«*
Western
Ore&t
tar
■
.^WBBST
m
m
: I
:i
'■
ft
U «
,|| ; # I I 5 'V, :ft
/ / / I.
/ 'ft /
L~. * “’ , J? ‘ * ■'**• “
im
■
-
■
■ ■:■: i ■:: ; ■:
fe
s»
■
m
'
I
w
Our registered Great Western
Sparkling Wine label has been
shamefully copied. We warn the
public against spurious imitations.
sdf


The Bulletin
Vol. 49—No. 2513.
April 11, 1928.
THE GATE.
“Admittedly the man who pursues knowledge for its own sake has small rewards, but it is regrettable to see our universities
used so exclusively for material advantage.” —Daily paper.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia lor tlie White Man.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosinan, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted tO ANY ADDRESS IN' AUSTRALASIA, Weekly .
12 months, £1 )s.; 6 months, 12s. lid.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 195.; b
months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, ana
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 11.11.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
■part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in tlic form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding tiro eoltim.ns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Tetters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Hut
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending AfS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
' Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
ia the Main Hall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, EC.); and W. Davison and Sons,
Cannon House, Ilreams Buildings, London, E.C.i ;
E. T. Hole, Holer th Satire. Service, )6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealanderl(l)-.17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurcli Street, London,
E.C.3.
South Africa.- —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Itliodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni Newt
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley: and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 217 Hastings
Street West, Vancouver, B.C.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, stli Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and )2nd Street, New York City; Ilolaling’s
News Agency, 203 West )lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle. Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 70) Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Alan, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.: The Wide World Neivs
Stand, 5)11 South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Walter Neivs Agency, Box 573 Arcade Station, Los
Angeles, Cal.
Egypt,— Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores. Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China.— Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang. S.S. — K. Abdvl Rahman, Bookstall.
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon.— T. L. De Silva. 39 Chatham, Street,
Colombo: Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy; M.
Atmaram and Sons, )) Chatham Street, Fort Colombo ;
A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —-Whitten Bros.. Samaras and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner. Aletropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.).
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies, of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji :
lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: )oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional )oz.. Id. All Sea Route: IGoz., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: )oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z.. Id.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 1928.
“WRITING DOWN CAPITAL.”
From the fact that the A.W.U., the biggest
of Australian unions, declined to attend
the Industrial Peace Conference, and sug-
gested “a drastic writing down of capital
throughout Australia” as a remedy for
Labor’s ills, it may be assumed that this
scheme is being discussed in Labor bodies.
It is just the sort of scheme that would
appeal to the easy talker. In discussing it
he can use no end of sentences that sound
magnificent and mean nothing. All the
old tags, from “unearned increment” down,
can be dragged in. But it may be assumed
—for the present, at any rate—that the
A.W.U. is an honest organisation, which
wants to do the fair thing. In that case,
before it proceeds any further with this
propaganda, it will want to know the facts.
If they are not what they seemed to be,
presumably we shall hear no more about it.
* * * *
It might be a good thing for Labor if
the owners of all the property in Australia
agreed to take half their present profits
and gave the other half to the workers.
As they are not at all likely to do that,
any more than Labor is likely to give back
half or even a quarter of its wages, the idea
apparently is to forcibly take half or some
other proportion of the profits; but the
robbery is to be camouflaged as “writing
down capital.” But—and this is the funda-
mental error of those who are toying with
this new idea—capital is something more
than paper. If you have £lOO,OOO of capi-
tal on one side of your balance-sheet you
must have £lOO,OOO of assets on the other
side to represent that amount. Certainly
sometimes there may be goodwill among
these assets. But the inclusion of this in-
tangible item happens rarely. There is
not a bank or big finance institution in Aus-
tralasia—excluding the new Primary Pro-
ducers’ Bank—with goodwill in any shape as
an asset. The Bulletin has been dissecting
companies’ balance-sheets for many years
and it may astonish the A.W.U. to know
that it has more often to complain that
assets are written down than written up.
Several banks, for example, have written
down their premises to almost nothing.
That is to say, they have many hundreds
of thousands more capital than their
accounts show. That might seem ridiculous
to the unsophisticated A.W.U. But even
the unsophisticated A.W.U. knows what it,
is to have “a bit up your sleeve.” When
you are making more profit than you think
it advisable to admit for any reason, you
can stuff it away by the simple process of
writing down your assets. The A.W.U.
apparently thinks that the most successful
cos. have inflated their assets and there-
fore their capital; actually they are the
cos. that have written assets down, in order
to disguise their profits. And the cos.
which have capital not represented by assets
are in nine cases out of ten those which
have paid away more than they have
earned. In other words, they have been
over-liberal to Labor; and how Labor is
going to benefit by writing down their
capital passes comprehension.
* * jj:
Some years ago, when the most honest
of the Labor Governments the State has
ever had was in power in N. S. Wales, it
decided that the time had come td straight-
en up the gas cos. They operated public
utilities and must not be allowed to pay
more than, say, 8 per cent, on their capi-
tal. And as it was suggested, just as it is
suggested now, that there might be a lot
of froth in the capital, it was decided that
their real capital should be arrived at by
having valuations ‘ made of the assets. The
share capital would be the total of such
valuations less liabilities to the public. In
every case it was found - that the asset?
were ridiculously under-valued; in other
words, large amounts of profits had been
more or less surreptitiously put into works
and other assets. Thus, instead of the
burden on the public being reduced by the
new law, it was greatly increased; the price-
of gas had to be put up at once to pay the
8 p.c., and history since then has been a
record of further rises. If you are going
to write down capital when the assets are
over-valued—in other words, if you are go-
ing to see that assets and capital corres-
pond—you must also write up under-
valued assets, which will mean writing up
the capital in those cases; and it is difficult
to see how Labor is going to benefit by
that either.
* * * *
But we are afraid that the A.W.U.
doesn’t quite realise what writing down
capital means. As we have said, ■ you
can’t write down capital without writing
down assets to correspond. Now, what
are those assets? In the case of a bank
or a finance co. they will be advances made
on security. How are you going to write
them down? By forgiving the creditor
part of his debt? By telling the fat mer-
chant that he need pay the bank only
£40,000 instead of £60,000? How is that
going to benefit the worker? Something
certainly can be said in favor of reducing
the values of farm and grazing land. In
many districts those values are too high.
But Smith paid cash for his place. How
are you going to benefit him by telling him
that his place is worth only two-thirds of
what he paid? And where are you going
to stop? Some men invest their capital in
bank shares; others in bank deposits. If
the capital in bank shares is written down,
why not also the capital in bank deposits
• —including, of course, the savings banks?
♦ **-*
It is quite true that if we were entitled
to shoot the first fat man we saw driving a
motor-car, and to collar his car, we wouldn’t
have to walk. We would never be un-
clothed if we could strip a neighbor, never
thirsty if we could raid the next pub. But
they call this robbery. And, wherever there
are assets to represent the capital, it remains
robbery whether you call it that or “writ-
ing down capital.”
THE LAND OF NOTHING EVER DONE.
A report by the well-salaried gentlemen, or
some of them, who were sent up to the
Northern Territory with no authority but
lots of stationery has reached Canberra, and
a .summary has been published. The N.T.
is now officially divided into North Aus-
tralia and Central Australia, but the change
makes no visible difference. Dealing with
North Australia in particular, the report sug-
gests that bores or wells should be
sunk along the stock routes; 14 are men-
tioned. This matter has been raked up and
down till it has become ancient history—
it was particularly stressed by Staniforth
Smith in 1920 —but there is no harm and
not likely to be much good in reviving it.
In the census publication it was officially
stated that “generally throughout the Terri-
tory it has been proved that unlimited
artesian supplies can be got at depths vary-
ing from 100 to 350 feet,” and that the
country north of the Macdonnell Ranges
“is not subject to the periodic and pro-
longed droughts of Western Queensland,
N. S. Wales and other parts of Australia.”
This makes it seem marvellous that so little
has been done with so much opportunity.
But the Territory is a friendless land be-
cause it has few votes to dispose of, and it
doesn’t get more votes because it is friend-
less, so even the painfully timid proposal
that it should be provided with another 14
waterholes may arouse no interest.
* * * *
The report goes on to recommend that
Hall’s Creek, which is nothing to speak of
in Westralia, should be connected with New-
castle Waters, which doesn’t amount to
much in the Territory, by telegraph, possibly
for the conveyance of mining machinery and
other weighty goods. It mentions “the
proposed railway” from Daly Waters (N.T.)
to the Queensland border, up in the far
north of McCormack’s State. It urges a
railway from the N.T. to the Westralian
border, though Westralia in these latitudes
is about as bare of inhabitants as the
Territory itself. Allusion is made to an-
other railway to connect the unused Pellew
Islands harbor, close up against the Queens-
land border, with some other place, or some
place which may become a place in course
of time. A better air service and some
wireless stations are mooted, also the im-
provement of Darwin h&rbor, which has
hardly sufficient work to do under existing
conditions to keep itself warm. And the
widening to 4ft. B|in. of the dead-end track
from Darwin to the Katherine River is put
on the bill of fare. It is pointed out
that there is exceedingly small pros-
pect for the North unless improved trans-
port facilities and communications are pro-
vided. Yet unless newspaper summaries
have done acts of wild suppression, the
report is curiously reticent about the fact
that a railway is nearly half completed
which should bring even the northern end
of the Territory within three days (if fast
travelling is possible) of the third city in
the Commonwealth—a manufacturing centre
inhabited by a real white race.
* * * *
The Territory was transferred by South
Australia to the Commonwealth as the con-
sideration, chiefly, for the completion of a
specific railway from deep water in the
south to deep water in the north—a rail-
way land-grant of stupendous dimensions.
The ink was hardly dry on the document
when a lot of politicians, miscellaneous axe-
l.rinders and assorted publications began to
demand its repudiation. They clamored,
and they still bellow, that the Common-
wealth, instead of developing its own
520,000 square miles of freehold, should
build a crooked line through western
N.S.W. and Queensland. Then a new mob
of freaks arose to demonstrate that the
great need was not a South-to-North line
connecting the empty land with the reser-
voirs of population in Adelaide, Melbourne
and adjacent parts, but an East-to-West
line to join the great emptiness of northern
Westralia to the remarkable emptiness of
the middle part of the Territory and the
very considerable emptiness of northern
Queensland beyond that. A third school
of thought emerged to say that the climate
of the Territory is unsuited to railways,
or at least that it is unsuited to the rail-
way that was paid for by the huge original
land-grant. It urged that fleets of imported
motor vehicles driven by imported fuel
should wander over the roads, carrying
such loads as they are qualified for, avoid-
ing night travel as much as possible lest
they should drift away and get bogged in
the immensity, and having the recognised
chapter of accidents. The scheme looked
both costly and futile, for to provide
roads suitable for the conveyance of
decent loads at a decent pace would be a
matter of vast expense, but it and the other
strange devices so far captured the wob-
bling ear of W. M. Hughes when Prime
Minister that he sent a sort of professional
bicyclist over the ground to report.
>3 * -J,: *
Enemies of Australia have suggested
that the development and peopling of a
virgin area of 520,000 square miles are be-
yond the Australian’s size in enterprise and
adventure. However that may be, the
Territory remains practically the Land of
Nothing Ever Done. During the period .
of Federal responsibility the only com-
pleted addition to the line which is to link
the Empty North to the populous centres
of the South has been 54 miles constructed
at the northern end. Up to the date of
the war, railway construction from the
south or Adelaide end cost £4505 per mile
open. The cost from the Darwin side,
where material was humped round by sea,
was £7177 per mile open. Latest figures
were: South end. £5572 per mile open; north
end, £8739. The tendency to develop from
the wrong or high-priced end is in no way
astonishing to the student of Territory
affairs, the Territory being a place where
most things are upside down.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Pit.
The financial returns of the seven Aus-
tralian Governments for nine months of
1927-28 show the downward slide to be
acute. In the case of N. S. Wales, interest
on the public debt was £804,734 more than
in the corresponding three-quarters of 1926-
27, and the net revenue from “Business
Undertakings” was £95.026 less. The bill for
interest was £8,856,428, and the net revenue
(excess of receipts over working expenses)
from the permanent and reproductive works
in which the loans were invested was
£4,755,671. So the “works” cover less than
54 per cent, of the charge on the mortgage,
and the position doesn’t improve.
All sorts of things happen to a community
which provides no sinking fund to meet its
loans when they fall due, so that it has to
renew at the creditors’ price. The position
is aggravated when it wants perhaps five
millions for two—£2,ooo,ooo at any price to
prevent it going bankrupt on the old loan,
and £3,000,000 at the best available figure to
prevent it coming broke on the interest.
The latter is nominally a loan for new public
works, but that lie has worn thin. Not
that the sinking fund would do any par-
ticular good in the present state of trade,
for it would be only paper, and the life-
and-death struggle is to find gold, or surplus
exports which will sell for that commodity,
to pacify people abroad.
Some curious revelations as to the cost of
wild-cat public finance are to be found in
the way the interest bill, and consequently
the debt, chargeable against N.S.W. rail-
ways, many of them dead-ends and all
heavy money-losers, grows bigger while the
assets themselves only grow older. Some
samples may be quoted:—
Interest Chargeable Against Some N.S.W.
Railways.
1917. 1926.
Clyde-Carlingford .. ... £2,022 £3,278
Kiama-Nowra .. •• 17,838 20,872
Goulburn-Crookwell . . ’ . . 7,531 9,283
Demondrille-Blayney . . .. 51,817 73,453
Cootairmndra-Tumut . . . . 24,747 30,456
Narrandera-Hay .. . . . . 27,191 34,127
Blacktown-Richmond . . . . 11,314 13,351
Nyngan-Bourke .. : . . . 28,988 39,653
Byrock-Brewarrina . . . . 7,193 9,372
Moree-Inverell .. .. .. 16,868 21,038
.Moree-Mungundi .. .. 17,278 20,410
A privately-owned railway system has its
shareholders fixed till Judgment Day, and
sometimes its bondholders, too, so Debt-
renewal Day doesn’t vex it. It can stop
dividends or write down capital. If things
are very bad it can abandon the whole
concern to its bondholders, and tell them
that if they get only 10s. in the £ out of
it that is their affair. As the railway is their
only security no repudiation is involved.
Where a State system has been built out of
local loans the Government can get out of
a tight place by taxing the bondholders, they
being its subjects, or it can legally, though
perhaps disreputably, pay interest in depreci-
ated notes. But the Australian method of
terminable external loans with no adequate
provision for repayment combines all the
disadvantages possible, especially in bad
times.
♦
A Conspiracy of Silence.
A man is found lying on the footway of
a street in a sinister quarter of the city.
His face is badly gashed with a razor cut.
To the police he protests that his assailant
is unknown to him. A woman is shockingly
maltreated by cut and blow. She also is
dumb as to her assailant. A criminal is
shot by some other criminal and left for
dead. He is conscious when the police
arrive, and able to speak, but he also passes
silently into the greater silence. And so on,
till it becomes a commonplace that Justice
may be defeated by a conspiracy of silence.
The trend of such events seems to indicate
that in the underworld of Australia, as in
that of the United States, lie powerful
criminal organisations which exercise their
baleful influence by a sj r stem of terrorism
imposing silence on their victims lest worse
befall them and theirs. How Can such an
evil be met? Under what process can a
man who declares flatly that he does not
know by whom his face has been razor-
slashed be dealt with? As the criminal law
stands he cannot be charged with an offence
of “not knowing,” and even were it proved
that he did know and is a liar it would
not forward a case against the razor-slasher.
The difficulty of dealing with a man who
stands mute before the law, though in a diffe-
rent direction; was settled very drastically
in another age. To-day if a prisoner refuses
to plead the presiding Judge enters up a
formal plea of “not guilty” and goes on with
the trial. But in English law, up to the
middle of the eighteenth century, it was
mandatory for a prisoner arraigned for a
felony to plead personally. Without a plea
from him in person there could be no trial
and consequently no conviction. And as
conviction in those days carried with it the
forfeiture of estate and goods, many a
prisoner, to preserve his worldly assets for
wife and children, remained obdurate and
suffered the penalty of his contumacy.
In such cases the mute prisoner was taken
from the court, stretched upon the ground
on his back, and subjected to peine jorte
et dure, strong and lasting torture. Upon
his prone body were placed heavy, and still
heavier, weights till out of the lips of the
unhappy wretch was pressed either a plea or
the breath of life. In later days a some-
what milder practice was adopted of tying
the mute’s thumbs with whipcord and
twisting out of him the needed plea. For
compelling a free man to disclose facts


believed to be within his knowledge our
rude forefathers employed the rack. It was
an instrument which often forced the ad-
mission of desired lies as well as of naked
truth.
The rack has gone but the mute remains.
All that is asked of him is the facts, and
if he meets Justice with a blank “I do not
know,” it is not easy to find a remedy.
Yet a remedy must be sought if the arm of
Justice is not to be paralysed. If refusal
to assist the police in these cases involved
heavy penalties—fine or imprisonment, or
both—together with disfranchisement for
life, fear of the law might conceivably
overcome fear of the push.
*
Two Red Wanderers.
Two of the strange Red creatures who per-
vade Australia, Ryan and Jeffrey of Syd-
ney, have been attending a Red conference
at Moscow on behalf of Garden’s 1 rades
and Labor Council, and have been heard
of from London. They say that in the
Soviet metropolis they “saw signs of great
improvement in the life of the masses as
the result of working-class rule,” and the
rest of the usual remarks.
It is notable that Red pilgrims say little
or nothing about their impressions of
Petrograd, Kiev, Odessa, Kharkov, 1 ifiis.
or any other of Russia’s many cities, where
the prisons and other institutions might be
worth inspection. They seem to be care-
fully shepherded round the show city of
Moscow only, and they don’t even touch on
the life of the farming population, which
constitutes 85 per cent, of the real Russia,
though it has only a little more than half
the voting power, if it has that. And on one
specially important point there is great lack
of information from these Red wanderers.
The Soviet’s regime began with some
money in hand because it repudiated the
public debts, and confiscated the bank
assets, and had a house to house search for
portable wealth, and even declared all land
public property. Imitators here probably
propose to repudiate public and private
debts and land titles also, and to confiscate
the 4,500,000-odd savings-bank accounts,
and otherwise fly around, but they ought to
define the situation instead of babbling
about how happy people look in Moscow.
Australia has three savings-bank accounts
open for every four people. Russia, before
the war, had about three to'4s people, and
it has fewer now. So the Australian has
something to lose in this direction alone,
to say nothing of his deposits in other
banks, and his life-assurance policy (one
life-assurance policy for every eight in-
habitants), and his adult suffrage and sun-
dries. He is hardly likely to throw it all
into the melting pot even though a pair
of obscure persons who hang about the
Trades Hall want to set up their Moscow
pals as patterns.
♦
The Country School.
“Padraic”: The Bulletin (14/3/’2B) drew
attention to the N.S.W. Education Depart-
ment’s scant consideration for its employees
in the matter of providing retiring rooms at
schools. I wish I could share the paper’s
optimistic view that such dark-age condi-
tions only need to be mentioned to secure
relief. When I look around the mansion in
which I struggle with my job, I feel mighty
doubtful.
My school has one class-room for its 100
pupils and two teachers. Sometimes when
my enthusiastic young assistant is employ-
ing her modern methods of teaching young
Aussie to read, a storm of hissing arises as
if all the snakes in the southern hemisphere
were engaged in a battle to the death within
the four walls of my temple. She is only
teaching the sound of “s.” No doubt I
worry her equally on occasions. Yet the
required partition which would cost a few
pounds has been asked for so often that
one wearies of further asking.
A fine river rolls some few yards away,
but the water which would secure gardens
and some attempt at beautiful surroundings
has never been laid on. Instead, in the fre-
quent dry spells it has to be carted and
paid for. The local pubs all have water
laid on, as well as beer, and sport their vege-
table and flower gardens on which the
occasional drunk can feast his eyes and
reflect on the relative unimportance of the
school as compared with the pub.
The bottoms of the windows are over 6ft.
from the flooring, thus making sure that in
the stifling heat the children shall stew in
their seats undisturbed by any roving breeze.
Children sit a dozen or more in a seat, so
that when one moves all get a good solid
jerk—ft helps their writing. Teachers and
inspectors have been mentioning these and
other things for years. But as we have the
best educational system in the world, why
should they worry?
♦
Brotherly Love in Asia.
The second Pan-Asian Conference —the
first occurred in Japan a year ago and
caused some mild excitement —was held at
Shanghai recently. Delegates from Arabia,
Turkey, China, Afghanistan, Ceylon, Japan
and Formosa attended. Several were
wanted by their respective Governments
and had to be smuggled in.
The conference quickly split on the old
rock of Japan’s encroachments on its
Asiatic blood brothers. The Japanese de-
legation had just brought in a resolution
demanding the destruction of the Singapore
base and Pearl Island and the removal of
racial discrimination, when the Chinese and
Indians asked them to vote on a resolution
demanding the withdrawal of Japanese
troops from Mongolia, Manchuria and
China, and the granting of home rule to
Formosa and Korea. The rest of the pro-
ceedings was mainly bad language in 51
dialects
Towards the end the atmosphere cleared
sufficiently for a motion to be passed fixing
the next meeting at Kabul and inviting
Bertrand Russell, Senator Borah and
Trotsky to be honorary members. It was
also resolved to send missions to Europe,
Africa, America and Australia to convert
the natives, and to establish a permanent
educational centre for literary, technical
and military training.
♦
Belshazzar’s Feasts and Fortunes.
“J.E.”: In a leading article (B. 28/3/’2B)
the supreme loan debauch of last year was
compared with Belshazzar’s supper, and it
was remarked that “unfortunately very little
is known about the financial position of
Belshazzar.” .1 am able to throw a little
light on this matter.
When the ill-starred Crown Prince (it
doesn’t seem that he was really King) gave
a snack to 1000 lords and some princes,
wives and concubines, he ordered that the
gold and silver vessels (another line says
“golden vessels” only) which Nebuchad-
nezzar had looted from Solomon’s temple
at. Jerusalem should be brought out and
used for drinking purposes. It is also
recorded that Cyrus, the conqueror, restored
all these properties to the Hebrews with
which to deck the makeshift new temple, so
AT IT AGAIN.
"It is difficult to discover among Mr. Hughes’s qualities that of loyalty to anyone else’s leadership or
that of ability to sink personal animosities in the party interest."
THE OLD LADY: “Naughty dog! You’ve been barking in the street again.”
Belshazzar’s guests didn’t get away with
them. This indicates that the 11 years’
war which finished the Babylonian kingdom
hadn’t reduced the Government to melting
down the national treasures, and the infer-
ence is that Belshazzar died with a large
surplus. If there were enough golden recep-
tacles for all these peers, concubines, etc., to
drink out of at once the surplus must have
been very large. .
A mystery surrounds this much-advertised
plate. Solomon is said to have provided it
all. In the reign of his son and successor
Rehoboam, the unaccountable king Shishak
came with 60,000 horsemen and other appa-
ratus to match, and took every darned
thing. A little later Asa sent the treasures
(apparently the same treasures) to buy the
support of Ben-iiadad, the Syrian. Later,
when Jehoash reigned in Judah, all the
treasures of the temple and the king’s house
were sent to buy off the animosity of
Hazael, also of Syria. In Amaziah’s reign
an angry Israelitish monarch stormed Jeru-
salem and took “all the gold and silver and
all the vessels” that were in the temple and
the palace; in fact he seems to have taken
every dashed object of value.
The next vicissitude was when Ahaz led
a tempestuous existence in Jerusalem, and
scraped the temple and the palace bare to
buy the aid oi Tiglath-Pileser, of Assyria.
His son Hezekiah not only cleaned out
the temple and the treasury but even
scratched the gilt off the temple doors to
make up an indemnity for Sennacherib,
another of the nasty men of whom Assyria
was so prolific. Later th( same Hezekiah
showed all his vast riches to the minions of
Merodach-Baladan, which was e rash act'
and led to trouble.
Jehoiakim, last king of Judah save
two, gave everything in the way of
findable wealth as an indemnity to
the victorious Egyptians. In the next
reign Nebuchadnezzar gathered up in
Jerusalem “all the treasures of the
house of the Lord, and the treasures of the
king’s house, and cut in pieces all the vessels
of gold which Solomon, King of Israel, had
made in the temple.” The viceroy he left
behind him did another looting of the trea-
sures of the house of the Lord, though that
edifice had been destroyed four verses previ-
ously. The two remaining episodes are that
Belshazzar and his disreputables had an
orgy out of the golden jugs and cups which
his illustrious predecessor had hacked to
pieces, and that Cyrus nobly restored the
10t—5400 gold and silver articles all told.
Considering the value of metals then I think
Belshazzar had most of the Australian
public debt in his palace.
After the time of Cyrus the dishes which
had made history for four centuries appear
to have vanished as completely as if they
had never been. Perhaps they never were.
«
Majority Verdicts.
Dear Bulletin, —May I rush, uninvited and
ungloved, into the ring against “T.B.C.
(B. 28/3/’2B) on the question of majority
verdicts in jury cases? Nothing in the
operation of the law is so important as the
certainty that its incidence is justified. In
these days when the daily press —most of
it, anyhow—becomes in one red-hot para-
graph sleuth, judge, jury and lyncher of an
arrestee before he comes to trial, it is im-
possible to empanel a jury freed from any
state of mind other than that resulting from
the evidence given in the witness-box; par-
ticularly when a local paper, widely read,
being convicted of comment deemed to be
contempt (in respect of a capital charge),
is fined the miserable sum of £2OO, and goes
back grinning to look at its circulation
figures.
The analogy of Scotch verdicts is hardly
in point, for “T.8.C.” overlooks the follow-
ing facts: —
(1) Scotch juries have 15 members.
(2) The compromise of “Not proven,”
allowable and very often used, minimises the
risk of majority verdicts and provides a
way out for the juryman who is suspicious
but not convinced.
(3) Scottish authorities do not run madly
to the gallows with the body of a felon
convicted on a majority verdict.
The case of Oscar Slater may be men-
tioned here. Of his jurors nine were for
“Guilty,” five were for “Not proven,” one was
for “Not guilty.” Slater, now free, after
many years, still avers his innocence.
Whether he be so or not it is a safe bet
on the evidence (available word for word to
any Sydney reader) that no English jury
would have been unanimous.
There is an anomaly in N. S. Wales
criminal procedure which militates equally
against the accused and the Crown. If
the perambulator of Rachael Googelstein
escapes from its nurse and rushes down the
hill through the plate-glass window of
Abraham Livinski, the evidence in the re-
sultant action for damages is available ver-
batim at any time; but if John Doe is
charged with rendering Richard Roe un-
recognisable with a tomahawk, the primary
evidence before the magistrate is taken, not
verbatim in shorthand, but on the type-
writer, and the deposition clerk, expert
though he is, is never able to get down any
more than the gist of the deposition. Every
practising lawyer knows how important, both
to the Crown and to the accused, is the
absolute transcription of the evidence at
first, instance. The liberty of the accused,
and perhaps his life, may turn on the con-
struction of a sentence or the shade of
meaning given by a particular phrase. The
Minister for Justice could remove this
menace by a memo of two lines.—Yours,
etc., “Timeter Pay.”
+
In the Solomons.
“Malaita”: A Bulletin article came up
for discussion at a recent meeting of the
Solomon Islands Planters’ Association. The
writer of the article had asserted that the
residents of the Protectorate were hunger-
ing for Australian control of the Solomons.
He was forcibly contradicted. The meeting
was unanimous on the point that it would
in no way benefit the Solomons to be mixed
up _in Australian politics, although the
majority of those present hailed from the
land of Bruce-Page and Lang.
As a matter of fact, the planters in
attendance were all for the conversion of
the Protectorate into a Crown Colony.
Instructions were given to the secretary to
prepare the necessary petition to the Crown
—this will support a similar petition from
the natives. A Crown Colony would make
a deal of difference to us. For one thing,
it would do away with the expenditure of
nearly £3OOO per annum for the upkeep of
a staff in Suva to delay our work and to
approve of occasional hangings. The High
Commissioner paid a visit to the group in
1925 and received several deputations, but
up to the present no official reply has been
received by the Planters’ Association to the
numerous requests then made, although, to
be fair to the H.C., relief has been granted
in one or two instances where trouble
pressed very hardly. One result of his trip
was to add to our expense by the erection
of a club house, tennis courts and a golf
course for the civil servants. This is not
grudged, but we have more important uses
for our money.
In no other part of the Empire has a
population of less than 500 whites accumu-
lated a surplus of £70,000 in the public
treasury. We have no agricultural depart-
ment; in fact, we get very little return for
the revenues extracted from us. We pay
the piper but we are not allowed to call
the tune. We don’t want Australian politics;
in fact, we want as little politics, as is
possible. But we want the opportunity of
helping to hold the tiller.
4
Where Farmers Are Oppressed.
Maorilanß has been given a fleeting glance
through the horn-rimmed spectacles of a
Yankee professor of agriculture, one E. V.
Wilson. On returning to his native heath
the American savant hastened to inform his
fellow-countrymen, through the medium
of the Country Gentleman, that the
small Dominion is making a great mistake
in not concentrating on jumbuck-raising
and cow-farming. He found, apparently
to his vast astonishment, that the people
engaged in the shepherding business “pro-
duce”—the term is his own—many times
more value than a similar number engaged
in manufactures, and that if it wasn’t for
the efforts of the graziers and the cow-
cockies Maoriland would have “nothing
with which to pay for its 225,000,000 dollars’
worth of imports.” To his indignation he
found that instead of petting the goose
that laid these golden eggs, the Maoriland
“Nationalist Government” was cruelly
oppressing the agrarians with Meat Con-
trol Boards, Dairy Control Boards and
Wheat Control Boards. “The Reform
party, now in opposition, largely the agri-
cultural group,” he adds sadly, “hasn’t
gathered much strength.”
Professor Wilson must have had a very
short stay in the land of flax and fern. The
farm-minded Reform party, so far from
being in opposition, has ruled the Shivery
Isles for the last 16 years, and is still go-
ing strong. The multifarious boards that
meddle with farming were all created by
the Reformers at the behest of the
Farmers’ Union, the “master’s voice” of
the party in power, and “Nationalist” is
the mantle under which the Liberals, so
puissant in the days of Ballance and
Seddon, hide the bruises that befel them
after a few years’ leadership by the too-
amiable Joseph Ward. Atid even the
Nationalist party is led by a farmer,
George Forbes. As to manufactures, Mr. Wil-
son, who professes to be a glutton for sta-
tistics, ought to know that the Maoriland
factory hand turns out his stuff to the
value of £lO5O per head per annum, while
his opposite number in the United States
is content with £650 worth.
Maoriland makes a specialty of attend-
ing to its own business and it’s a pity that
its attention should be distracted, even for
a moment, by funny little birds from the
land of the wooden nutmeg.
4 , .
“X2X”: The N.S.W. law relating to the sale
of poisons badly needs tightening up. At
present, should one wish to buy a small
quantity of one of the more deadly sub-
stances, such as arsenic or potassium
cyanide, it is first necessary to find a chemist
to whom the prospective purchaser is known
personally or, failing that, somebody who
will introduce him to a chemist. After that,
particulars as to the purpose for which the
stuff is required, the amount of it sold and
some other details must be entered in a
book and signed by seller, buyer and a
witness, in addition to which the law’s re-
quirements as to the labelling of the poison
and the attaching of the chemist’s name and
address have to be complied with. But a
man may go to any one of about a dozen
or so warehouses dealing in such goods
and buy all the arsenic or cyanide that, he
can pay for without any of the restrictions
imposed on the chemist. Even grocers and
suburban storekeepers sell such toxic stuffs
with no records of sales or anything of the
kind. Recently I saw enough arsenic, sold
as a weed-destroyer, to kill 50 persons
handed over a grocer’s counter to a knicker-
bockered boy. And the grocer had put it in
a beer-bottle.


Sore Throat
is quickly conquered
by a few tablets of
fORMAMINf
The Germ-killing Throat tablet*
At all Chem : rts.
Henafosan Ltd, Loughborough, ' ngland.
Cushion Ag'ainst Vibration
with
MANGROVITE
raw-hide: gears.
The most practical and lasting way of abating noise and lessening racketing
wear on your machines is to fit Raw-hide Gears.
Compressed between steel shrouds, raw hide is ideal for this purpose, being
durable, resilient and silent and immune from the effects of heat or cold,
moisture or oil.
In these, as in all “Mangrovite” products, the quality is entirely reliable and
long service assured.
LET US GIVE YOU FULL PARTICULARS AND EXPERT ADVICE.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director.
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
FRUIT
FOR GREAT BRITAIN
THE PORT OF HULL
is
Excellently Equipped for Rapid
Handling of Fruit Cargoes.
Nearly 7,000,000 Packages
Imported
during 1925.
SALES HELD THROUGHOUT THE YEAR.
QUICK DESPATCH
by the
London and North-Eastern Railway
TO ALL PARTS OF THE COUNTRY.
Further information gladlv given on applica-
tion to Messrs. BURNS. PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney; and Branches.
Agents throughout New Zealand:
J. A. REDPATH & SONS, LTD.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Labor’s newest idea, adopted at the A.L.P.
conference in Sydney, is that an Act shall
be passed “to compel a member to resign his
or her scat [in Parliament] upon secession
or expulsion from the movement of which
the. Parliamentarian was a member when last
elected to the Assembly.” Not a word is
said, you see, about who is to do the expel-
ling ; and on recent experience it is a wise
man who knows whether he is in the party
or out of it. Of course the democrat must
resist every such motion. It side-tracks the
recall, and takes power out of the hands of
the people to give it to the machine.
One interesting little piece of news came
out of the dog-fight between Billy Hughes
and Archdale Parkhill, who is the fly-wheel
of the N.S.W. Nationalist machine. Hughes
having belittled Parkhill, the latter said that
anyhow Billy was mighty glad of his ser-
vices when he “scoured the country” to raise
Billy’s £25,000 —-only “it was a good deal
more than £25,000.” This gets interesting.
I low much was it ?
The amounts paid under the Wine Export
Bounty Act were £28,417 (1924-25),
£217,109 (1925-26), and £442,410 (1920-
27). That showed it was a success; the
more successful an export bounty is in in-
creasing exportation the more it costs.
When the 4s.>-per-gallon arrangement ex-
pired on August 31, 1927, the bounty was
reduced to Is. 9d. per gallon for three years.
The proposal to cut it down another 9d. a
gallon, without waiting for the three years
to expire, was* described in some quarters as
flat repudiation. In any case it seems a
futile business to build up an industry, and
one with the promise of greatness, only to
let it drop again.
A stoppage of work on the Brisbane
waterfront, designed to frighten the Com-
monwealth Government into dropping the
proceedings against the union bosses held
responsible for declaring its lighthouse
steamers “black,” and a hold-up of the Hud-
dart, Parker co.’s steamers, especially the
Zealandia. which was booked to bring Eas-
ter holiday-makers back to the mainland
from Tasmania —these are the latest inci-
dents in maritime unionism’s war on Aus-
tralian industry. Australian industry will
survive these attacks, harmful as they are,
bu f it is doubtful whether maritime unionism
will.
“Does the city, then, grow at the expense
of the country?” the S. M. Herald asks,
and proceeds to show how enormously the
country benefits by the city-made machine.
But the Herald, a good old soul who never
did have very good eyesight, puts the ques-
tion all wrong. It should be: “Does the
city, then, grow at the expense of the coun-
try town?” There is no reason why the
machine shouldn’t be made at Newcastle or
Goulburn or Armidale. in N. S. Wales; and
then the farmer would be saved hundreds
of miles in finding a market for some at
least of his crops.
The question which will have to be faced
presently is whether the Labor union in the
Northern Territory (there is really only-
one) is in the pay of people interested in
keeping the development of the country
back. At any rate officials seem to go
through current events with a small-tooth
comb to discover grievances that can be
turned into strikes. At the moment the
employment of poor Binghi threatens to be
made a reason for calling out all other em-
ployees—and if that threat is put into effect
it will be just about the meanest strike in
history.
Unless the Hogan Government comes to
the rescue, the studentless veterinary school
at Melbourne Uni. will be closed on .June
30. There is a proposal that the Common-
wealth Council of Scientific Research should
take the place over for its own purposes, and
to allow time for palaver the doors may be
kept open and some of the staff retained till
December 31. To permit of this extension
the Hogans would have to take Ministerial
responsibility for the outlay involved. The
.Vet authorising the existing provision expires
at the end of June.
The Westralian Arbitration Court refused
to grant an application for “long-service
leave” made by employees of the privately-
owned Midland railway. The shareholders
only the other day got their first dividend,
a very small one, after waiting 37 years,
though the co. has been a large taxpayer all
that time, so the Court probably didn’t see
tliat there was room for more burdens.
Whereupon the union bosses showed their
contempt for arbitration by announcing that
the leave must be granted right off or a
strike would ensue. Presumably there is
nothing to be done about the matter, as
usual.
The conference on unemployment organised
by the N.S.W. Government in one of its
hopeful moments came' to an end, as far as
non-rural occupations were concerned, when
the Labor Council withdrew all its delegates
and threw four pages of type-written ex-
plosion into the breach by way of comment.
The document alleged that over-production
existed, and that any attempt to increase the
output per worker would aggravate the situ-
ation. It was a remarkable attitude to take
up in a country which produces so
little for export, and l imports so much,
because it produces so little, that it
is borrowing all it can get in three
continents to pay its daily bills with. In
non-rural occupations the under-production
is a national disgrace. The Labor Council
recommended higher wages, shorter hours,
no overtime and no piecework. As a natural
consequence there would be more imports.
As in the opinion of the N.S.W. Labor
conference —now in the hands of the Gar-
den faction —members of Parliament should
be mere machines to express opinions and re-
cord votes, why regular members of Parlia-
ment at all? Why not make a party entitled
to so many votes (the elections would de-
cide how many), and allow the machine to
send along that many of its own choosing?
Smith would be a good man on, say,, Mining;
so, when a mining matter came on, Smith
would be the member. And Jones would
have his day when Agriculture came on. It
would be a rotten plan, but it has more
points than the one the conference has just
favored.
It was expected by some Vic. Laborites
that there would be a reshuffle of certain
portfolios during the recess, but nothing has
been done. The expectation was that Pren-
dergast would be relieved of the Chief Secre-
taryship and made Minister for Water
Supply only; that Tunnecliffe would be
named Chief Sec., as well as Minister for
Railways; that Attorney-General Slater
would be relieved of Agriculture, which, hav-
ing relinquished Water Supply, Bailey could
manage, with Cain’s assistance, as well as
the Lands. Certain ambitious young Parlia-
mentarians are admiringly quoting the
example of the Westralian’ Labor Govern-
ment, which recently increased the number
of Cabinet Ministers from six to eight-—the
present Vic. total, although Victoria has
1,750,000 people and Westralia not quite
.400,000.
The “industrialists” of the Tas. Labor party
are making it as difficult as possible for the
Lyons Government to obtain a majority at
the May election. Hobart Trades Hall took
the lead by sending circulars to candidates
demanding a pledge that they would go
baldheaded for “industrialist” measures. At a
meeting of candidates held in Launceston
Lyons practically ignored the circulars and
said his policy speech would forecast a con-
tinuation of the moderate policy for which
his Government has been distinguished. Ex-
Attorney-General Ogilvie was significantly
absent from the meeting.
The Sydney Labor Council thinks there is
“over-production upon a world scale,” and
that any scheme "to reduce unemployment
by increasing production must intensify the
evil.” If there is this over-production on a
world -scale, presumably somebody is getting
too much bread, butter, cheese, clothes, boots,
tobacco and beer. Presumably also the coun-
cil doesn’t want the workers and others to
get so many of these things; therefore it
suggests reducing the output, so that they
may become scarce and dear. As a Labor
cure for Labor’s ills this is merely silly.
Encouraged by the temporary success of
the clubs which were formed to run the
motor-’buses banned by the new Vic. Roads
Act, the owners of the chars-il-bancs and ser-
vice cars plying to mountain resorts are
adopting all sorts of devices to keep their
vehicles on the go. One is to open booking-
offices and call them tourist agencies; an-
other is to remove all but the five seats
stipulated by the Act and accommodate the
rest of the passengers on the floor. Strange
as it may seem, lots of people prefer this
dusty mode of travelling to patronising the
swift and smooth-running Government elec-
tric trains.
Anyhow, The Bulletin can go this far:
Green and blue or striped coupons for cash
are a great deal less harmful than the myriad
of devices for inveigling people into debt in
order to buy things they could mostly do
without. The coupon purveyor is a non-
productive person ; but he provides the very
small trader with a means of advertising
that is within his reach —pructically every
other medium is too expensive for him.
Thirty years ago, when the cash coupon was
invented, there was very little need for it,
and the purveyor was an incubus. To-day,
with thousands of spiders inviting credit
customers to come into their parlors, the
cash trader is entitled to use pretty well any
birdlime he can—so long, of course, as it
isn’t dishonest. And at least the coupon
system isn’t dishonest.
Efforts are being made to get part of the
British Government’s migration loan applied
to a dam and irrigation scheme at Wyangala,
west of Cowra (N.S.W.). Cowra is 227
miles by rail from Sydney, where presum-
ably the produce would go to be exported,
the local market being pretty full. Sydney
is a long way from the most promising
foreign market, and that is often pretty full
with the vegetables of cheaper, wetter and
more adjacent countries. It would be a great
thing if Australia could dam up an extra
£50,000,000 worth of clothes and ironware
annually for a change. There is a reliable
local market for them, and the crop is little
affected by the seasons.
Most Sydney factories are working 18 days
in this month—some 17. And there are
some people who still wonder why Czecho-
slovakia can land stuff here at less than
Australian prices in spite of the tariff.
“Gallery”: Maurice Blackburn’s known
willingness to accept nomination for the
vacant Speakership of Vic. Assembly has
placed the Hogan Government in an awk-
ward position. If it looks to the other side
of the House for a successor to the late
Snowball it will leave itself open to the taunt
from Blackburn’s friends that it won’t give
a chance to the most brilliant man in its
Parliamentary ranks. Then its open enemies
will say that Labor is so afraid of not get-
ting support from other parties on its merits
that it cannot spare one man from the voting
ranks. Perhaps Blackburn’s courageous
admission at the A.L.P. conference that he
would take W. M. Hughes back will provide
the necessary excuse for turning him down.
Sandringham (Vic.) will make a strong
bid for the Brighton seat in the Leg. Assem-
bly, which became vacant on the death of
Snowball. It is putting forward Ramsay,
who has shown liis paces in municipal poli-
tics. In Tommy Bent’s time Sandringham
(known of old as “The Gipsy Village”) was
a mere riding of Moorabbin shire. When
it. was trying to become a borough Tommy
said the only difference between a shire and
a borough was a cocked hat —the hat the
borough’s mayor wore on levee days.
Many politicians have shown signs of irri-
tation lately, among them W. M. Hughes,
Neville Howse and Archdale Parkliill, and
on April 5 the Prime Minister to some
extent “lost his block” and started a chorus
of his own. His theme was that those who
scoff at the importation of Four Big Men,
who are to look at Australia and advise
what should be done with it, “seem to look
with disapproval upon all attempts to de-
velop the resources of this great country,”
and “are evidently of opinion that Australia
has nothing to learn from other countries.”
It was an ill-judged outbreak. It lias been
admitted (by The Bulletin, anyhow) that
Australia has plenty to learn, for instance,
in the way of a uniform railway gauge,
utilisation of good but neglected ports, send-
ing population to the N. Territory (which
seems to be left out of all settlement
schemes), doing with fewer imports and
fewer loans, and building some really re-
productive works out of revenue. But if
Four Big Angels flew here and told Bruce
the obvious tale all over again it wouldn’t
make much difference.
Bailey, of the A.W.U., has stated at length
his and the union’s view of what should be
done in N.S.W. in the present difficult cir-
cumstances. He recommended (1) stoppage
of immigration; (2) land settlement; (8)
water conservation; (4) extensive employ-
ment of men at planting trees; (5) equalisa-
tion of city and country wages by raising
tlie latter where they fall short; (6) export
duty on scoured wool to provide local em-
ployment at scouring. Though the wool-
scouring idea would provide more wages, it
would cause great loss to the country, for
the extra price per lb. obtained for scoured
wool seldom comes near to compensating for
the number of lbs. lost. The factory-owner
has good financial reasons of his own to ex-
plain this. Bailey's other propositions are
just hackneyed money-spending devices. The
dire necessity of the hour is to produce at
least £40,000,000 worth more per annum of
saleable goods or to purchase that much less
luxury, but the Baileys never mention the
real problem.
While the second biggest city in the U.S.A.
is in the possession of Thomsons and thugs.
Uncle pursues his mission of improving his
Central American brother. He is to “man-
age- ’ the Presidential election in Nicaragua,
and see that a pro-Yankee candidate is
elected, whether the local people like him or
not. The miserable Government was ordered
to get up a spontaneous demonstration in
favor of Uncle, and save for a “young Con-
servative” who shouted in the opposite
interest (the report says lie was arrested), all
went off well. Uncle has a concession to build
a canal across Nicaragua, and a U.S. senator
is reported to have said that the canal will
turn the Nicaraguan bandits into laborers,
while, doubtless, the local Yankees will be
capitalists. What will repair the Chicago
bandit no one knows.
Hope is a durable plant, like cactus. An
•enthusiastic conference lately met at Wagga
(N.S.W.) and demanded that the Govern-
ment should get to work like a Trojan and
cut up estates all over Riverina. It is to
promote dairying, pig-raising, stock-raising,
wheat-growing, wheat-farming, sheep-farm-
ing and bee-farming, and also to provide
stock and domestic water and extend the
Burrinjuck hydro-electric scheme all over the
place. The time had arrived, it was said,
when the Ministry, which has hardly the
price of a drink about it, should spread itself
in billions with light heart. Meanwhile all
the things demanded have been done in
Riverina, at the Murrumbidgee irrigation
area. The conference might have been better
employed in explaining how to make that
pay its way than in shouting for more.
The N.S.W. A.L.P. conference had a
great chance to show its independence of
the Communists. A stalwart admitted that
he was a member of a Communist body.
Promptly he was turned back, and two
hundred eyes winked solemnly.
A young man, sentenced to 10 years’ gaol,
was released in N.S.W. lately after serving
four years. The Minister was attacked, and
defended the release on the grounds that the
young man’s behavior in gaol had been ex-
emplary, that he wasn’t in need of reform
and that lie could do more good outside gaol
than inside. In six cases out of 10, per-
haps, the same thing could be said. In most
cases of murder the murderer would never
murder again even if nothing were done to
him. Still something is done to him, because
crime is still punished—a fact that a lot of
these prison reformers are apt to forget,
especially when there are friends to oblige.
“Bildad” : Though ex-Premier Mitchell dis-
coursed with some energy to the Westralian
United party about the wrong that would be
done to his State if the Commonwealth took
to contributing to its sinking funds he wasn’t
the only stuffed lion which roared on the
political beach. George, M.L.A., raged
against the eastern States much like Boa-
dicea-with-fhe-spanked-back denouncing her
Roman oppressors. He went so far as to
say that Westralia is only a “tool and door-
mat” of its Federal partners, and has been
wronged “in every shape or form.” I often
wonder why these embittered sufferers don’t
try secession, so that they could have their
own tariff, and pay the loss on their own
big railway, and cease to bother their neigh-
bors for subsidies, and generally sniff the
"lorious air of freedom. The first verse of
the Constitution says that “the people of
N. S. Wales, Victoria, South Australia.
Queensland and Tasmania.. . .have agreed to
unite in one indissoluble Federal Common
wealth,” but nothing is said about Westralia
being “indissoluble.” So it might be worth
while for the local woebegoues to make a
serious effort to escape from the yoke if
they really want to—which they don’t.
THAT HAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Hughes says that there is too much Mr.
Parkhill in the National party. That was not his
opinion when t scoured the various States organis-
ing hia £20,000 testimonial —as a matter of fact,
it was more than that.” —Archdale Parkhill, M.II.R.
lie rakes me now, embittered man,
With wrathy words and hot
Because, forsooth, I’m staunch to Blau.
And lie himself is not.
He uppercuts me, hard and rude,
The Hughes who used to pat
My back and purr his gratitude
When I took round the hat
For him,
When I ran round the h it.
Ilis very seat he holds because
I nobly stood aside;
My beau ideal then he was
And I his pet and pride.
’Tis true I got some quids pro quo
Thereby, but what of that?
For whom so fitly could it go
From hand to hand, the hat,
As me,
An artist with the hat.
Too much of Parkhill! William, once, .
When with my practised touch
I coaxed from far and wide your bunce,
Could there have been too much 7
Time was., with hearts too full for speech,
In mateship true we sat,
Billy and Archie, each to each,
When I sent round the hat
Pour rous,
When I took round the hat.
With Parkies then you could have done
By scores and scores, you know,
Who now account a single one
Superfluous —de trop.
And, seeing that you trounce me now,
Take this, as tit for tat:
'Twas more than five and twenty thou.
I handed in the hat
To you,
I heaved you in the hat!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SOCIETU
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
THE ESSENTIAL LETTER.
SYBIL: “Mabs is never home —she
spends her life on the high-
ways and byways."
CLAIRE: “Mostly the b-u-yways.”
“Homfrey Beale”: “B-Gar” (B. 7/3/’2S)
tells us that “Cock” has long since ceased to
be the most popular bush nickname, having
been displaced by “Digger.” Actually,
“Digger” isn’t a nickname at all. It is purely
a generic term which is synonymous with
and has practically superseded the old “mate”
and “cobber” ; and it is used indiscriminately
as an implication of desired friendly rela-
tions. “Cock,” on the contrary, had its
origin in the nationality of the nicknamee,
and still has for that matter; new “Cocks,”
with a prefix denoting some individual pecu-
liarity, are added to the bushman’s “Who’s
Who” continually. Even abos. and Chinese
are often addressed as “Digger” nowadays,
out of pure good feeling, but no one would
think of addressing them as “Cock.” One
word is a brand; the other a mere compli-
ment.
“C Q”: It was a weak point Director
Bernard Hall, of Vic. National Gallery, made
when lie replied to attacks on the I elton
Bequest ceramics that many of them were
purchased on the spot, namely, m Ohm Jt
there is one place more than another where
the collector of “genuine antiques is likely
to be diddled, it is “on the spot ; and tor
a very good reason. The European fakers
of these objects of art make a special business
of shipping some of their counterfeits back
to the locality where the original was got,
there to be stumbled on by any innocent who
happens along. Nor is this practice .confined
to European firms. Some years ago m Mel-
bourne there was a boom in early colonial
Iric-d-brac. Cottages and farmhouses were
ransacked for quaint lampshades, grandfather
clocks, antimacassars and the like. In not
a few cases the simple country folk took, m
addition to the purchase price, a cheap
modern replica or two of the object bought
—just in case.
* * * *
“Chevroford” : A member of the Vic. Aero
Club. August di Gilio, has the distinction
of being the first person in Australia to be
cast in damages for a breach of air-traflic
regulations. The claim was made by the Bar-
kin Aircraft Company that defendant so neg-
ligently drove an aeroplane that it collided
■with one of complainant’s machines. The
incident actually occurred, on the ground,
Di Gilio, who was doing his first solo flight,
landing on top of the Larkin craft instead of
on terra firma. He was ordered to pay £i9B.
What will happen when a collision occurs
in mid-air is an interesting speculation.
There are at present no aerial cops, and wit-
nesses are likely to be rare. And there are no
flying judges, as far as writer is aware,
so it would be difficult for a beak to decide
whether one party should have gone to the
left or the right or under or over the other.
Ht *!• * *
“Norson”: The gaol at Tulagi, Solomon
Islands* may be a spacious and up-to-date
establishment (B. 28/3/’2B), but it has
proved an insecure cage for the 135 prisoners
who are awaiting trial for the murders at
Sinarago. Already 11 have died of dysentery,
including the chief Norlu, who was said to
have been one of the ringleaders. Many
more are reported sick. Dysentery is not
the only trouble; unusual dietary, lack of
exercise, and plain home-sickness are men-
tioned as contributory causes of the mortality.
* * * *
“G.8.L.”: It was on August 5 (not 3),
1914, according to the Official War History,
that the German steamer Pfalz attempted to
creep out of Port Phillip heads and was
stopped by a shot from a garrison artillery
battery (B. 28/3/’2B). Other German craft
got earlier news that war was imminent and
profited thereby. On August 2 two German
ships left Newcastle suddenly, and the
steamer Westfalen followed them next day.
On August 4 the Elsass, lying at Woolloo-
oooloo wharves, started for the Fatherland
in such a hurry that she knocked a hole in
the adjacent baths. There were no orders
to detain her, and she cleared the heads in
safety an hour or two later.
*j: 'A' A'
"Mako” : In common with Manly (N.S.W.),
which is beginning to agitate to have part of
the quarantine reserve restored by the Gov-
enment, Auckland (M.L.) is taking steps to
secure a portion of its local station for a
public park. A bygone Government selected
for Auckland’s quarantine station the most
beautiful of the many islands in the Hauraki
Gulf, and it Has
always been a sore
point that Motuilii
was thereby closed
to visit o r s. As
stock as well as
passengers are iso-
lated there, and
mental patients at
times have been
accommodated o n
the island for
change of air, three
interested depart-
ments have to be
consulted before
the transfer can be
completed.
❖ *
“Explane”: More
art and ingenuity
are wasted on the
making of faked
antique furniture
than ever went into
the manufacture of
the original. The
best cabinetmakers
are employed and
they put their
finest work into the
job. The finished
article is usually
placed in the shop,
where it will be
kicked and knocked
about by every
passing workman.
The employees, in
fact, are invited to
put in the boot on
every possible occa-
sion, and they gen-
erally have their
meals on the
offending object.
Picking it with
knives is also fav-
ored. Thus 400
years of wear and
tear are condensed into a fortnight. Other
processes it has to submit to are being shot
full of borer and left for a few days in the
fly-room. The hardest-working flies are bred
for this purpose.
* * * *
“Runa”: There was effective resort to' the
ancient art of stone flinging by the licensee
of a leading Auckland (M.L.) hotel the
other night when burglars were discovered
prowling through the premises. One of them,
after arraying himself in the clothing of an
absent guest, watch and chain complete, non-
chalantly strolled across the corridor and
sought to switch on. the light in a room
opposite. Unluckily for him he pressed
the bell-button by mistake, and it brought
a waiter to the scene to ask his requirements,
whereat the intruder hastily sought the fire
escape. Here r.he licensee, waiting outside
with a liberal supply of blue metal, came
into the picture, and with a well-aimed
volley drove the burglar back _ through a
window. Bung then rushed inside, his
pockets still full of ammunition, and, en-
countering another unregistered inmate, gave
him the choice of stoning or surrender.
Three burglars were the result of his de-
termined stand with David’s weapon.
FLOR FIN A CELESTIALS.
MISSUS: “Smoking your old pipe again! Why don’t you smoke those cigars I bought
last week? For five hundred bands you can get a gramophone.”
MISTER: “If I smoked five hundred of those fellows, old girl, I wouldn’t need a gramo-
phone—l’d have a harp.”
“Natte Y.”: I don’t know that there is
much mystery about the origin of the word
“kanaka” (B. 28/3/’2B) ; it is used by the
inhabitants of the Sandwich Islands to mean
“native.” But the islanders accent the first
syllable, whereas the white man places the
stress on the second. In the first version of
“The Lost Legion” (1893) Kipling accented
the word correctly when he wrote -
We’ve shouted on seven-ounce nuggets,
We’ve starved on a kanaka’s pay.
When the critics complained that it didn’t
scan he altered it to “Seedeeboy.”
“Detonator”: The word “kanaka” comes
from New Caledonia, where the natives call
themselves “kanaks” (warriors). The
French have Gallicised it to “canaque.”
* * * *
“Oran”: It is rarely that a committee
engaged in the administration of a chari-
table fund manages to put up the excellent
record achieved by the just-wound-up Pear-
son Memorial Fund Committee of M.L.,
which has been in charge of the money col-
lected to aid the Auckland Blind Institute,
a scheme inaugurated on the death of Sir
Arthur Pearson seven years ago. Clutha
Mackenzie, himself blind as a result of war
services, has been chairman of the commit-
tee, and had the other day the satisfaction
of announcing that in all £02,000-odd had
been subscribed, the Government subsidy
totalling £20,000. But what mostly appealed
to the subscribers was that the expenses of
administration amounted to only £6BO, or
about per cent, of the sum collected. Had
the affair been administered on the basis of
some bygone Sydney charity drives an enter-
prising promoter would have probably got
the £62,000 and the deserving cause the
£6BO.
:!: * $
“Avon”: Thirty years ago, when cycling
was a-booming, Christchurch (M.L.) used to
boast that the only city in the world that
could show as many bicycles in proportion
to population was Buffalo, TJ.S.A. Motor-
cars and petrol are so cheap in Buffalo to-
day that the population has ceased using
its legs as an aid to rapid transport, but
Christchurch, level as a billiard table, still
sticks to the handy “jigger.” Lately a one-
day’s census of vehicular traffic passing
through the centre of the city gave a return
of 9363 bicycles, 3490 motor vehicles, 1020
electric trams and 108 horse-drawn vehicles.
Is there any other place in the world where
such a result could be recorded?
“Sol Malaprop” : A cable yarn lately pur-
ported to give the world, after 39 years, “the
first authentic story” of how the Crown
Prince Rudolf of Austria and the Countess
Vetsera were found dead in the former’s
shooting-box at Meyerling. It is said to be
revealed in the memoirs of Napoleon lll.’s
widow, who wasn’t there, and she is said to
have had it from the old Empress of Austria,
who was murdered 30 years ago, and who
wasn’t there either. The tale is that Rudolf
found that his whiskered father flatly forbade
his renouncing the succession to the throne
and abandoning his lawful wife in favor of
the Countess, and as the latter was about to
become a mother the pair decided to strike
a lofty attitude and die together. So Rudolf
shot the lady and then himself. But the
tale was told long ago in a volume by a
palace official of long standing whose remi-
niscences were numerous and intimate.
According to him, the misguided Prince did
lay certain matrimonial and other views
before his father, but when the old man
roared at him like a hungry lion he aban-
doned his projects. It is presumed that he
conveyed to the lady that her hopes were
blighted; that she went to Meyerling to re-
monstrate ; and that not finding him she
committed suicide in her own habitual bed-
room, where her unexpected remains were
discovered later. Meanwhile the Prince was
pursuing an amour with the wife of a game-
keeper or forester on the estate. The hus-
band had a profound objection to the busi-
ness, and by a coincidence he seems to have
taken that occasion to put his objection into
practical form. The result was two simul-
taneous but disconnected tragedies. The
new story is the more respectable, but, con-
sidering the Hapsburg record, the old one
looks more probable.
* * * *
“P.M.” : The identity of “the mystery Dig-
ger” in Callan Park has been solved; I won-
der how many others there are whose dis-
appearance will remain a mystery—in some
cases an utterly insoluble one. The following
occurred in the Australian Flying Corps in
September, 1918. Two machines were flying
over the enemy lines, not very far apart; one
machine entered a long white cloud, the
other flew along the outside of it. The craft
which entered the cloud never emerged from
it, and though its consort flew round and
round for some time, no eye, as far as it is
known, ever fell on the vanished airman
again. After the Armistice the district was
searched for remains of the machine, and all
possible inquiries were made, but no more is
known to-day of what happened to the
machine and its two occupants than that they
disappeared into the cloud.
# * * *
“Uramao”: The Norwegians are a bit cri-
tical of Maoriland charts after the mishap
to the whaling ship Larsen. Faro Rock, on
Avhieh the vessel became impaled, is shown on
the chart to be 13 fathoms deep, but the
water flowing over the rock is only four
fathoms. Though the chart is an old one,
there is nothing more recent available for sea-
farers. The passage used by the whalers into
Paterson’s Inlet is the one recommended by
authority. It was recently suggested by the
Admiralty that the M.L. Government re-chart
the coast-line, but the cost (£1,000,000) made
the suggestion unpalatable.
* * * *
“H.H.”: Touching Europe’s depreciated
currencies (B. 14/3/’2B). In the autumn
of 1922 I left Switzerland, where the
Swiss money was above par and living
consequently dear, for Bavaria, and
stayed for a couple of days at a
picturesque mountain village in the Aus-
trian Tyrol. There I called on the soli-
tary bank and asked for Austrian kroner in
exchange for five Bradburys. I was given
nearly 2,000,000 paper crowns, neatly
arranged in about 25 bundles of large green
notes, value from 100 to 5000 kroners each.
The pre-war value of my £5 worth was about
£BO,OOO. The 100 kroner notes, equivalent in
pre-war days to about £4.3. were beautiful
pieces of lithography on excellent paper with
a large double eagle. My curios aroused so
much interest that two of our party went to
the bank to try to secure another £5 worth.
They were too late; the institution had sus-
pended payment.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The carnivorous habits of a
pitcher plant attracted much interest at the
Garden Week Show in Melbourne. Small
moths, ants, flies and spiders were amongst
the carnivorous vegetable’s favorite dishes.
For a change, its owner gave it a small piece
of meat from the daily ration of two lions
which happen to be caged on the premises.
It gulped the moi’sel down inside 12 hours.
THE MISSING WORD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The most dramatic naval trial for a hundred
years was held at Gibraltar, with the whole Medi-.
terranean tieet lying outside in the Bay.... Percy
Barnacle, bandmaster, deposed that Admiral Collard
had beckoned with his finger and said ‘Come here,
you .’ Other bandsmen testified that they over-
heard the opprobrious word.”
Turn, Nelson, Benbow, Collingwood and
Hawke,
And all the rest of you, turn in your
graves!
Your boast it was to do and not to talk
What time, in Britain’s name, you ruled
the waves.
Turn, watch an Empire, tense and breathless,
wait—
As since the days of Byng it scarcely has —
While glittering Admirals investigate
The merits of a squabble over jazz,
And witnesses in faltering accents tell
How Collard spoke to Percy Barnacle.
Without, a stately fleet at anchor rides,
Huge dreadnoughts strain and frowning
cruisers toss ;
Within, a harder-frowning Court decides
If a commander subtly “sussed” his boss.
We know where Beatty fought, and Jellicoe ;
What odds heroic Richard Grenville faced ;
What Sturdee did—aye, and to whom —we
know.
Now let it upon record, too, be placed,
In naval annals evermore to dwell,
What Collard said to Percy Barnacle.
Turn, Rodney, in your grave (where’er it
be),
Drake, in your hammock ’neatli the Span-
ish Main,
Who scarified the French persistently
And singed the whiskers of the King of
Spain.
Your country’s foes with cutlass and with
fire
You harried, but no chronicles aver
You ever held a fleet up to inquire
Whether or no you’d strafed a bandmaster.
Your' fights were, won with other shot and
shell
Than that which Collard blazed at Barnacle.
The Silent Service, this! —so oft we’re told ;
Pity to see the virtue thus forgot.
Or was the last who reckoned sdence gold
Bluff Jacky Fisher with his “Sack the
lot!”
Seems worth rememb’ring now, the phrase
lie spoke
Or barked, when anything had rasped his
nerves.
The only silence on the Royal Oak
Was what polite officialdom preserves
About the term from Collard’s lips that fell
Epitomising Percy Barnacle.
x.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Anatol”: Although Wiremu Ratana, the
Maori faith-healer, lias lost a good deal of
his prestige, lie still has a quite flourishing
stronghold at Ratana, close to Wanganui.
This pa is a difficult one for pakehas to gain
admittance to, but it is said that a bottle
of gin has been known to prove an accept-
able passport. The prophet’s grand vizier and
head chucker-out is one Peter Moko, ex-
pugilist and ex-footballer. It is understood
that lie is also keeper of the official archives
which contain the history of Ratana’s poli-
tical correspondence with Japan and
accounts of his triumphal world tour some
years ago. There is also a bank on the pre-
mises in which the faithful are exhorted to
place their money for safe-keeping.
:Jc * *
“Henry Horsecollar”: Why is it that
people accused of crimes insist on making
needless and conflicting statements to the
police? Thus the gentleman with blood-
stains on his clothes will begin by stating
that he came home from his office and found
his wife dead or dying on the floor, that lie
decided to see a chemist about the matter,
and that the chemist rang up the police,
whereupon he (deponent) was comfortably
accommodated in the cells. In a few hours
or days he probably offers a widely-different
version. This is to the effect that he has
no office and had been at home all day.
While discussing a theological point with his
wife and three other women, whose names
and addresses he doesn’t know, he gave his
wife a push. She fell in consequence, but
d?.d it so gradually that he lost- patience and
quitted the house before she reached the
WAITS AND MEASURES.
“How long is it since you’ve seen your husband?”
“Oh, about six sheiks ago.”
floor. When he left her she was in perfect
health and at an angle of 45 degrees to the
horizon. When he returned she was dead.
Unconvincing as either story may be, it
might carry weight if the defendant would
stick to it, but he keeps introducing varia-
tions to the bitter end. The first time I
murdered my wife I told a plain tale and
refused to deviate therefrom. I said that
I had never seen the lady in my life, and
anyhow I was touring in Switzerland at the
time. People who said they had seen me
about town were misled by my resemblance
to my twin brother; and my habit of travel-
ling entirely by night through motives of
economy had prevented my movements attract-
ing attention. I supplied 12 different con-
fessions to different authorities, but they
didn’t differ in a single particular, and this
striking consistency made a favorable im-
pression on the jury; also the fact that the
deceased lady unexpectedly recovered some
time after the acquittal was a belated point
to my advantage. In all subsequent homi-
cides I have pursued the same line of un-
flinching adhesion to an unvarnished narra-
tive and with the best results.
* * * *
“T.R.H.”: The recent discovery of wire-
less sets in certain Pentridge cells received a
lot of newspaper prominence, but most for-
bidden things are smuggled into the big
gaol somehow. Carts with various goods, go
to and fro between Pentridge and Melbourne
every day, and the prisoner who has money
and knows the ropes finds little difficulty in
obtaining small luxuries to alleviate his lot.
And there is and always has been money in
brisk circulation within the walls. In the
days when minted gold was first beginning
to become scarce outside a chief warder told
me that he estimated there was still £2OO in
gold “somewhere in Pentridge.” And, as
far as drink is concerned, it isn’t absolutely
necessary to get it smuggled in from outside;
it is a well-known fact that a few years
ago a species of home-made intoxicant was
regularly made and bottled in the cook-
house, yeast being the principal ingredient.
* * * *
“Ferrocliie”: The other day a Sydney
paper published one of those distressful
appeals that come periodically from
Tristan da Cunlia, said to be the loneliest
island in the world and the most remote from
the track of shipping. Sometimes the island-
ers don’t see a ship for 18 months ; once they
were cut off from civilisation for 10 years.
The present settlement was started in 1817
by a .Corporal Glass, of the Royal Artillery,
who obtained permission to stay there with
his wife and two children. The climate is
very similar to that of Tasmania, and the
main product is potatoes. The population,
according to reference books, is about 120.
Sometimes, but very rarely, an islander
emerges into the outside world. One of them,
Cartwright by name, arrived in Australia
with his family of five and settled in Mel-
bourne four years ago. He is the son of a
shipwrecked mariner who made Tristan his
home and married a grand-daugliter of the
corporal of artillery aforementioned. The
immigrants paid their fare to Cape Town
with 14 sheep and two bullocks; money does
not circulate on Tristan.
* * * *
“Ferrocliie”: Changing a fiver the other
day I got a £l-note with the following
irrelevant endorsement: “Cashed for beer,
Colombo, Feb. 23, 1928.” Underneath, in a
different handwriting, was: “Same here,
Moree, March 31.” The paper .came over the
bar to me in Sydney on April 3.
* * * *
“Avon”: Art circles in Auckland (M.L.)
have been fluttered by the discovery of a
complete set of water-color drawings made
by William Blake as illustrations to the Book
of Job. They are not the originals, but a
duplicate set done by the poet in his poverty-
stricken old age. John Linnell, the famous
landscape artist, gave Blake the commission
as a considerately-disguised form of pension,
offering him £lOO for the set, to be paid in
weekly instalments of £2. When it was
finished, Linnell, who at that time was
young and struggling, paid Blake another
£5O. Linnell, apparently, gave the set to
one of his pupils, Albin Martin, who
emigrated to Maoriland in 1851, and it was
in the home of Martin’s two daughters that
the find was made. The original drawings
were sold at Christie’s a quarter of a century
ago for £5OOO, but prices of Blake relics have
gone up since then, and the duplicate set is
valued at about £12,000. The authenticity
of the pictures is placed beyond all doubt
by letters in the possession of the Martin
family.
x x * *
“Lao-dah”: During the recent Gippsland
floods “Scotty” Macpherson, recently a North
Sea fisherman, and his dog found themselves
in the fork of a willow. Scotty got tired of
his enforced detention after a few hours and
decided to swim for it. Leaving the dog in
charge of his clothing, he struck out in the
darkness, and after a long struggle arrived
on terra firma. He spent the night at a
farmer’s house, and next morning returned
to the willow-tree. The faithful hound was
still standing sentry over Scotty’s pants
and waistcoat, although the flood had now
risen to its shoulders !
# * * #
“X.N.0.”: The evidence at the Gibraltar
court-martial suggests that a large number
of the officers of the Royal Oak had com-
pletely lost whatever sense of humor they ever
possessed. Things must be coming to a pretty
state if naval officers can’t put up with the
rough edge of an Admiral’s tongue without
“having the honor to report” about it. So
far from the actions of a tempestuous skip-
per or Admiral tending to destroy discipline
and morale in a ship, they are quite likely to
have exactly the contrary effect. When there is
a sort of common enemy the lower-deck,
having suffered, is apt to reflect that the
officers are getting it just as hot, and an
extra bond of sympathy springs up; this
makes for a greater efficiency than when
everything is proceeding in the usual hum-
drum way and the Admiral says “Good
morning” to the quartermaster when he
comes on deck. Captain Osborne, who took
Dewar's place in the Royal Oak, testified
that he found the discipline exceedingly
good and the morale high. A little of the
“grin-and-bear-it” policy would have been
much better for the prestige of the service
as well as the individuals concerned. But in
this case the aggrieved officers seem to have
put their own personal interests in front of
all other considerations. Naval tradition re-
quires that, however, palpably wrong one’s
senior may be, he must still be treated with
every respect and deference, though provo-
cation may be considered in mitigation of
sentence.
* * * *
“Arith”: A cash order company recently
offered my wife a loan of £2O repayable in
24 weekly instalments of £1 each, commenc-
ing the week after the loan was made. She
asked me what rate
of interest that
was. Considered as
a loan of £2O for
20 weeks it works
out at 52 per cent.,
but the borrower
has not the use of
£2O for 20 weeks.
So I figured what
would happen if I
lent £2O every week
on that basis,
spending none of
the interest, but
ceasing to pay out
my own capital as
soon as repayments
permitted me to re-
invest the bor-
rowers’ money. I
found that at the
end of a year I
would have in-
vested £220, and
would be lending
regularly £4O a
week. At the end
of two years I
would be lending
£260 a week; at
the end of three,
over £3OOO a week ;
and at the end of
four, close on
£40,000 a week. I
then decided to re-
tire from lending
and collect my
loans, a process
which occupied, of
course, 24 weeks.
When all the loans were in I had a nice
little bank balance of over £420,000, all save
£220 of which had been paid me as interest.
But I’m still in the dark as to what the
rate of interest really is.
He * * *
“Credit” : In reply to “Tariff” (8.28/3/’2B).
Neither Clapp nor Barwell can claim the
credit for introducing rail motor-cars for
passenger traffic. Queensland had them in
use at least 13 years ago. One ran daily
between Toowoomba and Wyreema, and
another between Charleville and Cunna-
mulla, and for all I know may still be run-
ning. I have been a passenger on them;
they were very similar to those now in use
in S.A.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Records continue to cluster round
the name of Hinkler. Of a batch of toy bal-
loons released by the Rekald proprietary as
a welcome to the airman, one reached Tin-
amba, N. Gippsland, in H hours. The dis-
tance from Melbourne is 127 miles.
* * * *
“P.M.”: Queer drinks (B. 28/3/’2B) ? I
was in a camp in England in December,
1918, when a committee was formed to see
that the Diggers got the Christmas dinner
, of their oversea lives. “Darkie,”
one of the hard-heads of the
squadron, was detailed to look
after the wine list, or whatever
should correspond thereto. He
procured a barrel of beer and,
after drinking it down a few
pints, made up the deficiency
with a bottle of brandy, a jar
of issue rum, a bottle of whisky,
one of vinegar and a pint of
champagne. Those who _ con-
tented themselves with a sip or
two of the appalling mixture were kept
oceupicd until nearly daylight putting the
others to bed.
* * * *
“Salambo”: The Auckland Museum has
been enriched by the gift, from Mrs. Napier,
of the Maori chief Te Kooti’s greenstone
mere, which he himself gave to the late W.
J. Napier, his counsel, after being acquitted
of the charge of treason. It is a matchless
specimen of the true “mere pounamu,” 15
inches long, beautifully marked and not more
than an inch through at the thickest end.
Its former presentation was an occasion of
great ceremony, thousands of Maoris viewing
the transfer of this priceless heirloom.
i’.i ❖ ♦
“Windsor” : It was at this year’s citizen-
force training camp at Seymour (Vic.).
Lining up his morning “sick”-parade, the
orderly-sergeant commenced laboriously to
scrawl the regulation particulars on the
official white form. His query, “And your
religion?” had the lanky, red-headed private
with the raw heel perplexed. The invalid
scratched his head, then brightened and.
leaning forward confidentially, asked, “Wot
are yer short of?”
* * * *
“B-Gar”: “Findings keepings” was good
enough for most Diggers in the matter of
enemy property, but I remember one notable
exception. In the Palestine campaign a
Light Horse trooper, searching through a
deserted Turkish camp, found an attache-
case containing notes and gold to the value
of £3OOO, and promptly handed it over to
G.11.Q. The notes would hardly have
panned out at face value, or anything near
it, but most of us would cheerfully have
taken the risk of getting rid of the sovs.
* * * *
“Cartot”: Like the singer and the writer
the Australian crook often seems to have to
go abroad to secure the fame which his own
country has denied him. A recent cable told
of a “well-known Australian criminal,” one
Joe Naughton, over whose capture the
French police are rubbing their hands, the
arrested man being regarded by them as a
master of his craft and the head of a gang
of confidence tricksters w T ho have been reap-
ing a rich harvest, chiefly from American
visitors to the world’s gayest capital. In
Australia Joe was known mostly as a mags-
man who wmylaid credulous-looking persons
at the Sydney Central Railway Station and
THE ACID TEST.
REGINALD: “Dot’s boy must be fond of music. She’s always
playing and singing to him since they became engaged."
DOT'S SISTER: “ Yes, she wants to make sure that he really
loves her.”
at Spencer-street, Melbourne, and sought to
engage them as managers for the Queensland
sheep- and cattle-stations which he didn’t
own, and didn’t look as though he did either.
The best haul he ever made in Australia,
according to local detectives, was £5O which
he decoyed from the pockets of the overseer
of a cattle-run down in Sydney for the Show,
but in Paris he and his associates are alleged
to have cut up thousands in a few weeks,
among their victims being an Argentine
plutocrat. It is worth noting that Australian
criminals who get among the big money
overseas are nearly all confidence men, this
country not yet having supplied a forger,
counterfeiter or safe-cracker of international
distinction.
* * * *
“P.M.”: The war correspondent’s infor-
mation may have been always second-hand
(B. 21/3/’2B), but the official photographer’s
wasn’t. I knew one in the A.I.F. who got
a job photographing stunts in the front
line and promotion to Ist class W.O. with
it. He soon tired of his job. “I’d sooner
be a live private than a dead sergeant-
major,” he told me. “A bloke has to get
out in no-man’s land waiting for the in-
fantry to hop over and photograph the
bayonet charge. I’ve had the camera shot
out of my hands twice.”
* x * *
“S.N.R.”: “5.T.5.,” in drawing attention
to Gilbert Frankau’s slip in “So Much Good”
when he makes his heroine collect money
won on the Melbourne Cup of 1913 “from the
totalisator” (B. 28/3/’2B), is not quite fair
to the author and publisher. My copy of the
book contains this “erratum” tag: “Page
37. For ‘tote’ read ‘bookie.’ ”
x * * *
“W.1.u.” : The time a mackintosh or rain-
coat is most readily available to free a
person from a live wire is when it is
raining, which merely renders it an increased
source of danger, as “Fugit” (B. 4/4/'2B)
points out. Better, then, to take the advice
in “First Aid to the Injured” and use some
dry article for protective purposes—an india-
rubber tobacco pouch, cap or folded news-
paper. If no means of insulating the hands
are close drag the sufferer away by means
of a loop of dry rope or crooked stick. Avoid
touching the sufferer’s naked hands with
your own or with wet clothing, or even touch-
ing his boots if the soles are nailed. Finally,
avoid the armpits, as the clothing is likely to
be damp there.
HOW THE YARN GOT ABOUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I took ’er ’ome las’ Clioosdee night an’ lin-
gered at the gate;
1 kissed ’er once or twice, yer know, an’ left
’er pretty late.
She wasn’t one ter rave erbout —I thought
’er pretty slow,
But if I’d known jist wot she wuz I would
’ave let ’er go.
It seems she went an’ tol’ ’er mum, ’oo went
an’ tol’ ’er dad.
An’ judgin’ be the things ’e said ’e wuz a
trifle mad.
’Er sister Jane went fer the mail an’ tol’ a
bloomin’ crowd,
An’ soon from ’ere ter Wombat Flat they
yelled the yarn aloud.
The mailman tol’ the carrier, the carrier tol’
’is wife;
Then every jane fer miles around wuz talkin’
for ’er life.
It seems I wuz engaged to ’er—I ’eard that
down the creek—
An’ we were gointer ’ave the banns put up
inside a week.
I took ’er ’ome las’ Choosdee night—I ain’t
denyin’ none.
I might ’ave kissed ’er once or twice, ’ave
kissed ’er just fer fun.
She went an’ tol’, the little minx. Say, wot-
clier think o’ that?
An’ now they’re sayin’ that we’ve clicked —
from ’ere ter Wombat Flat!
VICTORIA.
P. T. FINDLAY.
THE PASSING OF SUMMER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Summer, thy pomp and pride have all but
gone;
Already in long woodland aisles there start
Hues painted in with autumn’s fainter tone
And joy has left the heart.
Aye, joy has left the heart, to know that now
Old furtive languors leave each stream and
tree,
That a vague glory has gone hence, somehow.
From earth and air and sea.
A stirring of the blood there came with
spring,
Love waxed to deeper ardor with the sun,
Small, unconfessed delights have taken wing,
Their little gamut run.
Heartsick with memories, the restless breeze
Scatters brown drifts of leaves with idle
hand, _ .
Watching, consumed with nameless miseries,
The fading of the land.
O purple season, let me, too, be lost
With you upon the chill wind s wild, sweet
breath,
Caught up with crumbling petals, and so
tossed
Unmissed, unmourned, to Death !
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


A Decision ,
in favour of
/
X
K
X
11
&
*M
if
W/.
f
/
:
X
W.
WL
A.y
yK
'//
r
2
/
K*
25
1
w
-fi
lli
TO
With the Special Ivory Tips
No tobacco can pass your lips
CLlso Cork. Tipped avid Plain
Manufactured m your own
country from the finest
Selected Virginia leaf
Packets of 10 8°
Packets of 15 1/*
Tins of 50
SIIIM O'H 2 O M
$91131?
tj


Rugged
I !
\
/
/
(
\
X
l 'Wf
<\ X
<*v
D.
/ i
/■v&f "Vl /•/!
4
Super-Six
\
X W \
A V
Ti
X
n
1
P
LA
0”
ft
T v
Power-Smoothness -
N A
ASSURED
with
PROVEN
FUEL
ECONOMY
fT is how cars are made and what
*■ they are made of that really matters
—the material, design and workman-
ship which enter into their make-up.
It is upon these qualities that ready
dependability and rugged performance
are built—cardinal qualities which
assure stamina, endurance, with safety,
smoothness, silence, economy and
comfort.
These are the qualities which have
made the Essex Super-Six so popular
and preferred and which have made
every buyer of an Essex a pleased and
enthusiastic owner.
It does not matter whether you are
speeding along the well-built grades
of motor-roads, gliding in congested
urban streets, or are traversing rough
country roads, you will always find in
Essex truly dependable, rugged per-
formance.
No previous car—no previous value
gives a standard by which it can be
judged. It is justly the most popular
Essex ever built.
ESSEX SUPER-SIX.
Essex 5-pass. Touring (Au 3. Body) £255
Essex 5-pass Coach (Aus. Body) . . 325
Essex Coupe (Imported Body) . . 335
Essex 4-door Sedan (Aus. Body) . . 345
Essex 4-door Sedan (Imp. Body) . . 365
Prices at some points slightly higher-
w* in
ESSEX Suj,erS * x
Distributors:
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED.
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL'S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD*
Adelaide Street, Brisbane
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


piTGull ft*. «!“<* mJ<i«o/ligW
across ike Atlantic in GROWLER monopHne
V,-,#. s. 4-0 cyW«- 4.000 H.P OK.CK-6MAOK
... , , i; 1U v RUBBER- SHASKS-FOR-BATHERS UP
HiS collapsible. \ij<z boal supplied y
His /lying suit
His p2*r2*chut<z, was by Ck/VTAP & Co.
He. carried thoroughly reliable H.OTTO ihermos
And His swidwicWs wave supplied. by Messrs MARGMUHE
VTHjlc. His tooth -and hzdr oil ware the. product .of THE
better HEALTH LABORATORIES C°
At the end of his flight the/irst thins he saw was
Thereupon the poor fellow turned out to sea. And"
THE ONLY WAY OF ESCAPE.


m
i
mi
SW Hr
J 5
H
-■■f. -
HZ*#
i
n
w M C.WENTWORTH
WR
PORT
OWN BOTTLING
MAS HARDY £ SONS LTD
AIDE,MELBOURNE ESYONE^
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN WINE.
m
uaaas
67z’/6’/ocra He Pzoneere."
HARDY’S WINES OF TIN TARA


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereafch Street, Sydney.
12
11
2
IO
3
0
4
a
T :
Man’s Full-Size Open-face Oxydised Steel
Watch, 66/-
UNREMITTING ACCURACY
UNDER ALL CONDITIONS
The Super Fx S R Watch
These Watches offer extraordinary value.
The movements are on the lever principle.
They have brequet over-coil balance springs.
They are threequarter-plate Levers.
They are jewelled in 15 holes.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
They have jewelled ruby rollers.
They are specially made to stand rough riding and
knocking about.
They keep time to within seconds a month.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order
(breakages excepted) for one year.
They are made in every style of case.
Fairfax and Roberts, Ltd.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
K3i
Melbourne
Italian
OPERA SEASON
Opens May 12.
Stay at the Hotel Windsor, the most
beautifully located of all Mel-
bourne’s good-class metropolitan
hotels. Opposite Parliament House and facing-
magnificent gardens, and but a few minutes
from theatres and shops. Hot and cold water
and telephones in all bedrooms. Minimum
tariff from 22/6 (inclusive). Room and
Breakfast from 15/-.
“Kotet WindAot
Spring Street, Melbourne
Telegrams & Cables:
“Telwinsor,”
Melbourne.
Manager:
D. G. Baker,
k’Phone: Cent. 9260.
niiiP?
WHEN WE CAME HOME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For many a long and dreary week, beneath
a low and heavy sky,
With eyes that ached for fairer scenes we
watched the leaden days go by.
A wearied earth had turned to sleep, the
birds were gone, the trees were bare,
For winter’s grip was on the land when we
came home and left you there.
You who had marched and fought with us,
you. who had borne the heat and toil
From Blackboy Hill to Pozieres, must sleep
for aye in foreign soil. . .
Where much was hard to understand tins
was the hardest of the lot:
That we at last were going home, and you—
our splendid mate —were not.
But on the roads that we had known, down
manv a well-remembered mile,
We heard again your merry laugh, for you
were with us all the while.
Again you told your oft-told tales, and still
the same old grin you wore
As when we marched down Blackboy Hill •
was it ten thousand years before?
At Havre and Weymouth, you were there;
with us to Hurdcott eamp you came ;
In the canteen your songs were sung; you
sat in at the poker game;
You went with us on our last leave; you
stood beside us in the fix
We got in at the Bull and Bush; you drank
with us at Dirty Dick’s.
And when the girls on Plymouth Hoe were
merging swiftly with the gray,
With us you waved a last farewell; you
were with us at Table Bay.
Oft were you standing at the prow, oft did
you watch the wake of foam
And read the tally of the miles —the miles
that brought us nearer home.
And when the hills of Albany broke at long
last the level line.
Then was it that you turned to us with arm
outstretched and eyes a-shine.
Then was it that we heard your laugh—-the
laugh we thought to ever miss—
And heard you say, “You poor old fools, to
think a man was missing this.”
And often are you with us yet, your voice
as glad, your laugh as gay
As when we marched down Blackboy Hill —•
say, was it only yesterday?
There is a grave across the sea, there is a
cross by Pozieres.
But you—how could you sleep in France?
And we—how could we leave you there?
W.A.
OSCAR WALTEES.
PERSONAL
ITEMS.
GEORGE TALLIS, of the J. C. Williamson
firm.
“Sir Sol”: The first act of Matt. Charlton
when he was appointed leader of the Labor
party in succession to Frank Tudor was
to order that the extra £4OO per annum
allowed the leader of the Opposition be
handed over to the family of his predecessor
for the term of the existing Parliament.
Soon after assuming the leadership, Charlton
suffered a serious illness, and it was the out-
come of this trouble that led to his recent
retirement from the thankless job.
Lucy Donaldson, holidaying at Newcastle,
showed herself the true daughter of a D.S.O.
father the other day at Merewether beach.
Seeing a man, Arthur Lane, putting up a
battle with a shark, she swam alone to the
rescue —too late, however, to save Lane, who
was brought ashore in a dying condition.
Afterwards the girl showed unusual modesty
in declining to give her photograph to the
papers or to allow herself to be photographed.
There was at least one joyful revelation in
the absurd Royal Oak court-martial the
name of the bandmaster was Percy Barnacle.
The Australian Navy has had its own appro-
priate names. One of its cook’s mates was
John Stew; Timothy Lanyard, Joseph Fore-
top, Thomas Kat and William Stokes were
companions on one ship, which also owned
a giant whose name was Alfred Acorn.
Three Queensland University scientists, A.
F. Bell, N. Bennett and W. H. Kerr, who
were granted Government scholarships and
specialised respectively in plant pathology,
chemistry of soils and the manufacture of
sugar, have returned after three years’ study
abroad. Their field of operations included
Java, the West Indies, the sugar States of
U.S.A. and various universities. All three
should help Queensland’s sugar industry.
“G.8.L.”: The biographical details of
Brudenell White in Bean’s official history
state that when receiving £l2O a year as
a bank clerk he was sending nearly a third
of the amount to his mother, while £1 a week
went to a teacher who coached him nightly
after banking hours. With the remainder lie
“clothed, lodged and fed himself, and also put
by the slender capital with which he was
determined to make a start for himself when
opportunity permitted.”
In spite of a solid handicap of 83 Captain
Storey made his annual trip from the Rich-
mond River for the Ancient Mariners’ picnic
on Sydney Harbor the other day. Of the shell-
backs who assembled not all spent a lifetime
afloat. One, Alf Gale, a brother of the
astronomer, deserted the sails early to look
after the mails at Paddington (Sydney) post
office.
Dr. Basedow, who has gone as geologist
with the McKay expedition into Arnheim
Land, the least explored part of Australia,
is a handy man to have in such a party.
Besides being a geologist he is a doctor of
medicine, and having lived in the Territory
for years and made a specialty of anthro-
pology, he has a working knowledge of
several Northern and Centralian dialects.
On top of that he is a hardy six-footer and
a first-class mate. He should have filled the
chair of anthropology in Sydney Uni., and
probably would if his name had been Smith
or Brown; instead, he turned to politics and
was sent to the S. Aus. Assembly at the
last elections.
Australia will this month buy a booklet
of songs and hymns for great public occa-
sions—in particular Anzac Day, Armistice
Day, Bird Day and Foundation or Anniver-
sary Day. Alex. C. Welsh, who has made
the selection and seen it through the press,
is a frequent contributor to the Red Page;
and, besides knowing what literature is, he
knows what the boy likes to sing, for he
earns his crust as a teacher at the Hay
(N.S.W.) High School. The enthusiast
wanted to publish at a penny; then he tried
to do it for threepence; finally he managed
it at 4d. G. B. Philip and Sons (Sydney)
are the publishers.
Melbourne ’Varsity has just paid £125 to
a revolutionist. It was the David Syme prize
for scientific research, and it went to Dr.
O. W. Tiegs for a work on the nervous sys-
tem which threatens to turn previous notions
of the bodily machinery inside out.. The bril-
liant young scholar did most of his work at
Cambridge ; the £5OO Rockefeller scholarship
enabled him to do it.
C. J. Miller, who fought for three years
for the right to keep guinea pigs in Brighton
(Vic.), has lost his cause, Irvine, C.J;,.find-
ing that a council by-law aimed specifically
at him was valid. Miller always pleaded that
his animals were mainly sold to medical insti-
tutions for the purposes of research, but that
made matters worse. The general public
appreciates the benefits of modern medicine,
but it shrinks from the thought of vivisection.
For the first time in its history the im-
portant Professor Nansen prize in mathe-
matics at Melbourne Uni. has gone to the
skirts side. Miss Frances Allan is the blue
stocking who piled up the mountain of figures
on “interfacial waves” which impressed and
even staggered the examiners. It would be
interesting to know what an examiner would
do if an examinee turned out to be a genius
who worked out a sum the examiner couldn’t
find the answer for himself.
The splendidly inquisitive Don Mackay is
going out again to try to discover a bit more
of Australia. Mackay has sheep territory in
N.S.W. that takes some exploring, but the
lure of the completely unknown calls him.
Two years ago, with Dr. Basedow', he ex-
plored Central Australia and laid the foun-
dation of a better knowledge of a country
previously supposed to be mainly desert, ilia
exploring dates back to 1899, when he went
right round Australia on a pusli-bike. Cater
he took a party to then unknown parts ot
Papua, and his other adventures include a
South Seas cruise in a fly-weight yacht.
Now, again with Dr. Basedow, a cinema
photographer and another man, he is going to
explore Von Arnheim Land. Mackay is toot-
ing the bill for the sheer pleasure these expe-
ditions give him.
The contest for the Bank of Adelaide
directorship between ex-Mayor Simpson ana
Prosser, M.L.C., lias been going through
some interesting phases. Robert Homburg,
brother of S.A. Attorney-General, came out
as a third candi-
date, advocating
amalgamation with
another bank.
Simpson replied
with a circular
notifying sha r o-
holders that ho
would support
amalgamation o r
continuance,
whichever paid the
shareholders better,
but a unique
action in Austra-
lian bank amal-
gamations— in the
event of sale he
would not accept
the customary re-
tiring gratuity
from the purchas-
ing bank. Hom-
burg promptly
withdrew his can-
didature, and his
committee are sup-
porting Simpson.
MATTHEW
CHARLTON,
who has resigned
the leadership of
the Federal Labor
Opposition.
Bishop M. J. O’Farrell, R.C. chief of
Bathurst, who was called suddenly at Orange
the other day, hailed from County Meath.
As a youth he joined the Vincentian order
and had a distinguished career before Bath-
urst invited him to the episcopate. A few
years back lie asked for a coadjutor with
the right of succession, and, as a result, Dr.
Norton now rules the diocese.
Andrew Petrie, dead in his native Brisbane
at 74, belonged to a family that was asso-
ciated with the beginnings of the Northern
State. His grandfather, also an Andrew,
was one of Dr. _ Dang’s earliest immi-
grants ; he arrived in Sydney m 1801, after
serving in the Royal Engineers, and was
appointed foreman of Government works a
year later. His sons moved to Brisbane in
1837, and the father of the late Andrew,
John, became Brisbane’s first Mayor, He
founded a big contracting business that was
carried on by his descendants, and achieved
a world reputation as a student of the abos.
The just-dead Andrew sat in the Queensland
Legislative Assembly as member for Toombul
from 1893 to 1926. when he retired. He was
for years chief Whip to the old Liberal
party, by which he stood throughout.
Unless some higher Court upsets the de-
cision. the Salv’army will take possession of
the £400,000 property which Joseph Gil),
sliipping-agent and wool-broker of Melbourne
and squatter of N.S.W., left it for branch
work in Sydney, Melbourne and Goulburn.
McArthur, J., decided in Melbourne the other
day that the gift was valid, and held that
Gen. Booth could be made trustee provided
he used the proceeds for the districts speci-
fied. Already a few hundreds have gone in
costs which have come out of the estate,
and if there is an appeal, as is hinted, there
will be a further levy for lawyers.
If police-constables who are doing clerical
jobs for their department in Vic. were shooed
out into the streets and trained clerks from
other State departments, who could be
spared, were substituted, Chief Sec. Pren-
dergast would have 70 men for districts that
are erving out for extra protection. Then
if bailiffs, who could be paid out of fees,
were appointed to serve summonses and pro-
cesses there would be still more men in blue
to do their own jobs. A return showing
how police are occupied daily and weekly
would produce some surprises and lead to a
drastic recasting of duties.
“T.E.O’D.”: How is this for a family
longevity record? George Green, who re-
centlv celebrated his 84tli birthday, was born
in Ireland and has lived in the Pittsworth
district (Q.) for 61 years. His dad got
tired of things mundane at 91, and the
other parent missed the century by a coup
of summers, while an uncle saw 9b. feta ll
living are brothers James (88), Warren
(82), Willie (76), Richard (79), and a
youngster, Edward (63). All except b ar-
ren live in Bananaland.
Frank Geacli, M.A., LL.B just dead in
Melbourne, was a pioneer of West Gippsland,
and a patch of country on the Strzelecki
ranges is called after him. In his young
days Geacli had political aspirations, but,
though he tried hard, he never won a seat.
He was getting well on in years before he
took to law.
Crockett, M.L.C., who led the revolt
against Allan, leader of Vic. Country party,
bv resigning from his Cabinet, has not been
rewarded as he expected by the Country
Progs. In fact the organisation in Ins own
district has told him that it would prefer
McCann to have the seat for the North-
Western Province.
L. R.. (Lou) Bliss, has retired from the
Queensland Customs after 50 years’ service,
most of it in Brisbane. In his day Bliss was
a more than useful club cricketer ami rowing
man in the northern capital.
Fenelon de la Motte Mott, Vic.'s Surveyor-
General and a descendant of an old trench
family that emigrated to Britain in troublous
times, retires from the Public Service this
month. His dad was part-proprietor ot the
Hamilton (Vic.) Spectator when lie was
a- lad, and one or two of his brothers took
to ink.
Just by way of showing no prejudices, the
National Council of Women has selected
women with a strong bias towards Labor
politics as its delegates to Bruce’s proposed
Industrial Peace Conference. Mrs. Greville
was one of the pioneers of the Labor
Women’s Organising Committee, and has
sought political honors as a Laborite. Miss
Lade, of Adelaide, forsook school-teaching to
make a study of the conditions of working
women by getting employment in various
industries; she now runs a factory of her
own. Another, Mrs. Casson, of Perth, used
to he a prominent Labor woman.
Tom Gilchrist, who retired from the job
of clerk of Vic. Upper Chamber at the end
of last year, has put on official harness
again as sec. to the Royal Commission on
railway management. Sec. to the Parlia-
mentary Standing Committee on Railways
for 20 years and clerk to the committee of
public accounts in the Leg. Assembly for a
time, he has a strong grip of management
and finance.
WALTER MARKS, M.H.R., Chairman of
the Federal Film Commission, which
has just made its leisurely report.
W. H. Wliiddon, income-tax collector in
N.S.W., who has tumbled into hot water for
saying things about persons once employed
in his department, suiters a vicarious un-
popularity, but is liked by most that meet
him, and few can say he is unreasonable
with hard-pressed tax-payers. He joined the
N.S.W. public service late as “a temporary,”
but was soon given a permanence and rapid
promotion. When the Federal and State tax
collection activities in N.S.W. were com-
bined it was made one of the terms that
Whiddon should take charge. At one time he
kept the Adelaide Hotel in Paddington
(Sydney).


Alexander Hamilton Institute
ii CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, n.s.w.
fsd
f
For the executive type of man only, we have
published rather an unusual booklet called
"Forging Ahead in Business.” It contains a
concise description of the Institute’s work,
besides business facts of interest to mature
men. Have your secretary write us for a com-
plimentary copy, or use this advertisement.
Name
Business Address
Position
Modern
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
SECURE A RELIABLE EXECUTOR
by appointing
THE Trustees, Executors and Agency Co., Limited,
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
(The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australia.)
Its experience of over 49 years in controlling all classes of Estates ensures a service that
will protect the interests of your dependents.
If you have already appointed a private Executcr, the Company can be substituted by a short
codicil.
SECURITY; Capital (Paid and Uncalled) and Reserves exceed £BBB,OOO
Arrange an interview or write for booklet.
DIRECTORS; Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H. MacFarland, M.A., LL.D. (Vice-Chairman),
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart, J. Fordyce.
CHAS. R. SMIBERT, General Manager. V. G. WATSON. Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Wunderlich, Ltd., manufacturers of ceil-
ing, roofing and other building materials,
etc. (the co. carries on business in every
Australian State) :
, Dividends s
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profits. 7 p.e. Ordinary, serves, serves.
•£ £ £ £ £
1918.. 22,981 5600 9 p.e. = 12,834 4,497 33,175
1919.. 25,961 5600 10 ~ „ 15,739 4,622 37,794
1920.. 27,870 5600 10 „ ~ 21,784 486 38,280
1921.. 45,837 5600 124 „ „ 37,500 2,737 41,017
1922.. 36,139 5600 10 .. ~ 30,000 539 41,556
1923.. 36,800 5600 10 ~ ~ 30,000 1,200 42,756
1924.. 48,540 5600 124 „ ~ 37,500 440 43,196
1925.. 36,209 5600 10 „ .. 30,000 609 43,805
1926.. 45.336 5600 124,, ~ 37,500 2,236 46,041
Added to goodwill, £3OOO ... .. 43,041
Premiums on new shares, £45,000 . . 88,041
1927.. 64,143 5600 14 p.e. = 43,400 15,143 103,184
1928.. 69,553 5600 14 „ „ 56,925 7,028 110,212
A splendid result, but not quite so good
as the one on whose heels it trod. The
average capital at work last year was
£0(5,OOO-odd greater than in the previous
term, hence the 14 p.e. div. called for an
extra £13,525: the spring in net profits
was only £5410. Of course the new money,
which was got in to finance general expan-
sion of the business, has not had much of a
chance so far to show wliat it can do in the
way of earning. Nevertheless tlicvdiv. was a
comfortable matter. Incidentally, the share
premium of 18 months ago means that the
new capital is costing the co. only a shade
over 10 p.e. Last year the net profit shown
by the accounts, was £90,242, equal to 20. S
p.e. on average ord. capital, after allowing
for pref. requirements, compared with 25.3,
19.5, 14.2 and IS.B p.e. back to 1924. They
are attractive results; and what makes them
possible is that paid capital (£500,000) has
the assistance of a staff-partners’ and super-
annuation fund, £102.100 at Feb. 28, and
£110,212 of reserves. The latter figure ex-
cludes £68,702 of goodwill, which is possibly
worth more, but following its usual practice
the “Wild Cat” sticks to the tangible position.
Contributions to the staff fund are made out
of profits and based on a minimum 10 p.e.
to the ords. The purchase of share certi-
ficates and dividends paid thereon since
1921. have been as follows:
Ceriti- Divs., Certi- Divs.,
ficates. etc. • ficates. etc.
1921 .. £19,575 £1278 | 1925 .. £9,675 £2470
1922 .. 1572 | 1926 ... 15,000 3905
1923 .. 1,935 1585 1 1927 .. 15,000 5010
1924 .. 16,175 2525|1928 .. 15,009 5680
These amounts are not included with profits
in the table, which shows the net position as
it affects the pref. and ordinary shareholders.
The board appears to take the view that exist-
ing shareholders are entitled to current profits,
hence distributions have been close up to
earnings. The disadvantage is that divs. are
liable to fluctuate with income. However, re-
sults have justified the policy. The ords. have
averaged 12.6 p.e. over the last five years,
or a trifle less when the premium is taken
into consideration, compared with an average
of 104 p.e. in the preceding quinquennium.
The co. has a strong connection throughout
the Australian States and in Maoriland. And
under an alert and enterprising management
the process of expansion continues. The
plant. for the manufacture of architectural
terracotta, which was installed at the co.'s
Sydney works four years ago, has since been
annually enlarged, and a similar factory has
been put up at Sunshine, Vic. The £60,000 of
new capital that came in during the year,
and more, went into fixed dssets and
stocks: —*
1920. 1927. 1928.
Shareholders’ capital.. £379,666 £439,972 £500,000
Employees’ capital ~ 14,040 87,200 102,100
Liabilities .. .. 38,244 90,856 86,789
Freeholds .. .. 151,559 272,211 290,734
Leaseholds .. .. 9,659 1,229 1,642
Piant, etc 108,926 181,890 204,843
Stocks 136,396 156,353 205,060
Book debts .. .. 64,342 135,719 126,035
Cash, etc. .. .. 16,598 4,032 9,248
The financial position, as usual, was very
comfortable. Including stocks (£204,843)
the more or less liquid surplus (£253,554)
increased £48,306 during the year. Plant,
less depreciation, is in at £204,843, but no
hint is given as to what has been written
off. Indications are that the allowance has
been sufficient in the past. Profits largely
depend upon activities in the building trade,
and at the moment there are signs that these
are more likely to ease than increase.
The scrip ranks high amongst industrial
stocks. The market prices the ords. at 38s.
6d.; at which figure the return is 7.2 p.e.
on a 14 p.e. div. basis. The backing is 255.
3d. in net tangibles. Similar cover for the
first profs, amounts to £l7 165., and for the
seconds to £l6 16s. Each class of pref.
share is valued on a 61 p.c. basis.
* * * *
Burns, Piiilp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.,
which took over most of the island interests
of Burns, Philp and Co., in 1920, for
£500,000 in fully paids:—
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £
1920.. 102,546 10 p.c. = 75,000 27,54 G .27,846
1921.. 57,549 74 ~ „ 56,250 1,299 29,145
1922.. 4,192 Nil 4,192 33,337
1923.. 37,791 5 p.c. = 37,500 291 33,628
1924.. 51,272 6± „ „ 46,875 4,397 38,025
1925.. 60,806 6j „ „ 50,000 10.806 48,831
1926.. 56,725 6jf „ „ 50,000 6,725 55,556
1927.. 64,104 7.1 „ „ 53,125 10,979 66,535
Lower values affected sales ; the result was
a shrinkage of £1672 in the year’s gross
profit (£161.785). But thanks to a vigorous
cut of £9051 in exes. (£97,681) —they ate
only 60.4 p.c. of the gross profit, the
lowest ratio in the last five years—the net
result sprang £7379, reaching £64,104, equal
to 8.5 p.c. on capital compared with 7.6, 8.1,
6.8 and 5 p.c. back to 1923. Shareholders
were handed an extra Id. per share, and that
called for an additional £3125, but the mar-
gin was comfortable. Apart from the boom
profits of 1920, the last was the best result
since the co. took over those island
interests of 8., P. and Co. The parent
got a round half-million in fully paids for
the assets and B.P. shareholders put up
£250,000 in cash. Thus the pup has a paid
capital of £750,000. No goodwill figured in
tho deal. So far shareholders have not had
a great deal out of the business, an average
of a shade over 6 p.c. since the beginning;
and £66,535, equal to Is. 9d. per share, has
been visibly accumulated. Shortly after the
co. took over prices of island produce col-
lapsed, and earnings have been affected by
reduced values. On the other hand there
has been marked expansion in the volume of
trade handled :
Gross Exes. p.c.
Profit. Exes. of Gloss.
1923 .. .. £124,909 £87,118 69.7
1924 .. .. 153,783 102,511 66.7
1925 . . . . 169,632 108,826 64.1
1926 .. ... 163,457 106,732 65.3
1927 .. .. 161,785 • 97,681 60.4
Since 1923 the co. has bought four steamers,
an auxiliary ketch, a coal hulk, and has
another steamer building. Also it has taken
over the business of Merediths (Samoa),
Ltd., acquired the freehold of Nassau and
Sophia islands and a lease of the Phoenix
group—several of the islands were fully
planted with coconuts. All this for an in-
crease of only £70,814 in the book value of
properties, etc. A year ago the co.’s inter-
island mail service contract with the Fiji
Government was renewed for another five
years. During the last 12 months “addi-
tional trading stations were acquired and
buildings and wharves extended.”
The financial position is very snug:—
1923. 1926. 1927.
Paid capital .. .. £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. .. 57,058 190,742 91,424
Properties, wharves, etc. 190,740 236,216 261,554
Stocks afloat .. .. 353,549 430,390 368,705
Merchandise . . .. 179,665 173,502 134,321
Sundry debtors .. 126,148 155,427 155,436
Cash ... .. .. 28,083 50,764 41,070
The book value of stocks and merchandise
dropped £100,866 during the year, and
£99,318 was lopped off the debt, reducing it
to £91,424, which was more than twice cov-
ered by book debts and cash alone. Inci-
dentally the 1922 figures are a sharp re-
minder of what can happen in the island
produce, trade; much therefore depends upon
the value at which stocks have been taken
into the sheet. The market looks at the con-
trol, which is the same as 8., P. and Co.,
and expresses its confidence by paying 28s.
6a. for the scrip. The return at that figure is
a shade under 5 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
* * # *
National Mortgage and Agency Co.,
of Maoriland:—
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1916.. 30,729 124 p.c.= 25,000 5,729 259,596
1917.. 33,994 15 „ „ 30,000 3,994 263,590
1918.. 38,223 15 ,» „ 30,000 8,223 271,813
1919.. 38,940 15 „ „ 30,000 8,940 280,753
1920.. 47,188 15 ~ „ 30,000 17,188 297,941
Share premiums .. 31,250 329,191
Loss.
1921.. 9,605 10 p.e.= 24,598 294,988
Profit.
1922.. 21,643 10 „„ 25,000 291,631
1923.. 38,356 11£ „„ 28,125 10,231 301,862
1924.. 30,611 ll£ „ „ 28,125 2,486 304,348
1925.. 37,602 12 J „ 31,250 6,352 310,700
1926.. 24,036 124 „„ 31,250 303.486
1927.. 31,825 124 „„ 31,250 575 304,061
The recovery in the demand for wool, the
increase in Maoriland’s meat production and
the steadiness of the dairy produce market
are reflected in tbe latest figures, and the
confidence of the directors in drawing upon
reserves last year to pay the usual div. has
been justified. Earnings are still on a very
modest scale considering the amount of
money in the business. A million and a
third of capital is employed, of which
£782,275 is a debenture issue, bearing
interest at 5 per cent., and there is a
reserve fund of over £300,000. The re-
mainder, £250,000, is the shareholders’
stake. The latest net profit represents a re-
turn of less than 24 per cent, on the funds
used. However, the position has con-
siderably improved since last year, and were
it not that nobody knows what the various
boards that control the export of primary
produce will do next, nor to what ex-
tent the new State schemes of farmer-
financing will interfere with the mortgage
finance cos., the outlook might be said to
be fairly rosy. Chairman Logan told the
shareholders at the annual meeting that agri
cultural land values in the Dominion had
been receding steadily during the last three
years, but that there was still no improve-
ment in. the demand for land. That has been
noted by other observers. The general
opinion in Maoriland is that farm values,
especially in the North Island, have not yet
sufficiently retreated from the altitude
reached in 1920, when extensive Government
purchases of land for returned soldiers, com-
bined with the excessively high prices of
primary products, led to a welter of specu-
lation. However, the subject is not one
that ought to cause the National Mortgage
Co. , undue anxiety, since the position has
long been realised by the directors. Here
is the latest statement of assets :
Public securities .. . . .. .. £366,530
Premises, plant, etc. .. .. .. 82,219
Stocks 211,261
Mortgages, foreclosures, etc. .. .. 864,237
Advances on wool and produce .. .. 27,030
Sundry debtors .. ~ .. .. 352,079
Cash 17,150
Liquids have gone up £lOO,OOO during the
year; mortgages have been reduced by
£50,000; current accounts by £00,000;
stocks by £ll,OOO, and advances by £2OOO.
Caution is evidently still the watchword.
Working expenses show a further substantial
reduction, the only item that has not de-
creased being Maoriland taxation. The fol-
lowing comparison shows the movement of
expenses and profits in recent years:—
1924. 1925. 1926. 1927.
£ £ £ £
Gross profits .. 156,124 157,380 138,202 141,902
Exes, and English
taxes . . . . 62,864 65,309 60,436 56,111
£93,260 £92,071 £77,766 £85,791
Dob. interest . . 44,030 41,773 40,261 39,322
M.L. taxes . . 15,421 9,205 9,708 10,731
Profit .. £33,809*£41,093*£27,797*£35,738*
*Less £3491, £3761 and £3914 voted to Super-
annuation Fund.
Liabilities at the latest accounting stand
at £562,296, exclusive of the debenture debt,
and the amount includes a reserve for con-
tingencies. Taking in the debenture debt,
liabilities stand at £1,344,571, against which
there are £386,80S of liquid assets, and
£1,536,826 of non-liquids,, made up of mort-
gages, advances, sundry debtors, premises
and plant (these include meat-freezing fac-
tory) and stocks. The position, therefore,
is one that need cause neither creditors nor
shareholders anxiety.
The £lO shares, paid to £2, are priced at
£3 14s. on the market. The return at that
figure is a shade under 7 p.c. on a 12| p.c.
div. basis. The backing amounts to £4 Bs. Bd.
in net tangibles.
* * * *
The Queensland National Pastoral
Co., Ltd:—
, Dividends , Writ- Re :
Profits. Pref. 7 p.c. Ordinaries, ten off. serves.
1918.-124,335 17,500 8 p.c. = 48,000 21,859 93,446
1919.. 94,176 17,500 8 „ „ 48,000 23,861 98,261
1920.. 64,001 17,500 8 „ ~ 48,000 24,833 71,929
Loss.
1921.. 6 096 17,500 Nil 25,606 22,727
Profit.
1922.. 10,550 17,500 Nil 14,272 1,505
1923.. 37,867 17,500 Nil 16,328 5,544
1924.. 37,072 17,500 Nil 11,293 13,823
1925.. 41,864 17,500 Nil 22,413 15,774
Loss. Deficit.
1926. .205,435 Nil Nil 23,464 213,125
1927.. 27,679 Nil Nil 29,186 269,990
Most of this eo.’s 10,603 sq. miles of lease-
hold and 67,946 acres of freehold has been hit
by drought, the results of which, thus far, are
partly written in the last two lines of the
table. In 1926 it cost the co. nearly double
its ordinary expenditure in the fight to save
whatever live stock could be saved, and sales
brought in less than a third of the previous
year’s income. These figures tell their own
story:—
1924. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Sales, etc. . . £171,135 £187,938 £60,3.23 £97,065
Expenses .. 134,063 146,073 265,758 . 124,744
Depreciation .. 11,293 22,413 23,464 29,186
The struggle was not so costly last year,
but, of course, sales failed to recover;
thus a loss of £56,865 showed up, which, with
the previous year’s loss, makes a total of
£285,764, equal to 9s. 6d. per ord. share.
That on top of five thin years following the
. collapse of the Australian meat export trade
means a cut in the 600,000 £1 ord. shares.
How much will he decided when the position
clears sufficiently to definitely measure up
the losses. Then the outside debt which has
been piling up calls for reduction. It was
£192,464, all but £38,923 of which was
owing to the bank at Dec. 31. And by the
close of next accounts there will be £52,500
in accrued divs. coming to the prefs.
When the drought arrived the position was
improving, mainly because of the attention
being given to sheep. Something like fSO,OOO
had been spent in converting Cork and Luck-
now. To represent the outlay there is the
best part of 300 miles of dog-proof fencing
and other improvements, which still stand.
But what of the sheep? At the close of the
1925 accounts there were 222,016 of th®***!
at Dec. 31, only 87,636 were left. Ihe
cattle did not suffer so severely. There were
83,913 beasts on the books at Dec. 31 com-
pared with 128,556 two years earlier. Since
1925 the book value of the co.’s chief earning
assets, the live stock, has decreased by
£201.060:
1920. 1923. 1926. 1927.
Cattle. . .. £492,228 £383,918 £243,220 £223,053
Sheep.. .. 100,215 96,431 66,900 59,676
Horses.. .. 35,002 25,956 14,292 11,724
Cattle values are strengthening, but as
against that there is the heavy cost of re-
stocking the sheep properties when conditions
permit. On most of these areas no rain
worth mentioning has fallen for 12 months.
On the rest of the properties conditions are
dry, and the co. will be fortunate if it gets
through the winter without the expense of
hand-feeding. Some of the cattle runs, which
badly want rain, too, have been cut off
because the stock routes have been closed.
Balance-sheet figures compare thus: —
1924. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Liabilities . . £128,617 £135,094 £184,603 £192,464
Leases, ete. .. 296,821 325,524 322,855 303,332
Freeholds . . 68,605 68,605 08,605 68,606
Plant, etc. . . 88,002 85,285 86,387 83,453
Livestock . . 503,147 495,513 324,412 294,453
Stocks, wool.. 44,953 34,490 10,348 21,238
Cash, book
debts, etc... 8,412 8,950 8,871 1,391
The outside debt is £169.835 in excess of
liquids, apart from live stock. Much depends
upon the value placed on the latter at
Dec. 31. Cattle were in at approximately
535. per head compared with 495. in 1925,
and sheep are unchanged at 13s. 6d. per head.
The co., by the way, is an offshoot of the
Q. N. Bank; it took over the pastoral pro-
perties left with the bank after the troubles
of the ’nineties, and the bank is strongly
represented on the board.
The market offers 16s. for the prefs.,
which were backed by net tangibles with a
book value of 465. 5d., nearly half of it lease-
hold. The ords. are priced at 65.; and the
cover amounts to 11s. in net tangibles.
* * * *
Pebmewan, Weight and Co., Ltd.,
carriers, produce dealers, etc., of Mel-
bourne and elsewhere:—-
To Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1917 .. 3,022 51 p.c. = 2,750 272 21,930
1918 . . 5,614 7 „ „ 3,500 2114 24,044
1919 . . 10,973 10 „ „ 5,000 5973 30,017
Assets written up, £7003.. .. -37,020
1920 . . 12,261 10 p.c. = 5,000 7261 44,281
Set aside for taxation, £2500 .. 41,781
1921 . . 14,549 12i p.c. = 7,500 7049 48,830
1922 .. 6.850 8 „ „ 6,000 850 49,680
1923 . . 9,704 10 „ „ 7,500 2204 51,884
1924 .. 15,486 12| „ „ 9,375 6111 57,995
Premiums on shares, £6250.. .. 64,245
1925 . . 15,811 121 p.c. = 9,375 6436 70,681
1926 . . 19,031 121 „ „ 12,500 6531 . 77,212
1927 . . 22,165 12| „ „ 13,802 8363 % 85,575
Premiums on shares, £6250.. .. - 91,825
1928 .. 24,093 12$ p.c. =17,578 7115 98,940
Gradually the co. has worked itself into a
very comfortable position. Profits, which to
a great extent are governed by the seasons
and the markets, have advanced steadily for
the last six years. For five of them share-
holders have had a steady 12§ p.c. and a
comfortable margin has remained for re-
serves. Last year gross profits (£150,409)
improved £11,543, but net profit got only
£2528 of the increase, and since there was an
extra £31,250 of capital at work over half
the term the year’s final result dropped to
17.6 p.c. on average capital compared with
20.1, 18.9. 25.1 and 23.4 p.c. back to 1924.
Incidentally the premium (£6250 = ss. per
share) means that the new money is costing
the co. only a shade over 10 p.c. Paid capi-
tal has more than trebled since 1920, and
gross earnings have responded in this way:—
Gross Exes, (riot inc. Exes. p.c. of
Profits. Depreciation). Gross Profits.
1921.. £91,253 £75,558 • 82.8
' 1922.. 73,287 65,029 88.7
1923.. 78,281 66,176 84.5
1924.. 94,205 73,968 78.5
1925.. 98,664 79,700 80.8
1926.. 136,528 111,915 81.8
1927.. 138,866 114,413 82.4
1928.. 150,409 120,455 80.1
Expansion of the business was responsible
for last year’s improvement—the opening of
a branch at Hillston (N.S.W.) helped. The
subsidiary, Murray Shipping, in which the
co. owns 18,000 ords., dropped its div. from
10 p.c. to 5 p.c.
The new capital and the premium enabled
the board to lighten the debt (£97.962) by
£37,036
1920. 1925. 1926. 1927. 1928.
&£>&£,£,
Liabilities.. 79,212 63,415 118,408 134,998 97,962
Plant and
propertv 47,193 38,571 71,730 80,497 75,934
Book debts 90,583 119,109 139,670 166,420 172,644
Merchandise 32,583 44,244 68,871 80,310 86,613
Shares Mur-
ray Ship-
ping .. 18,000 18,000 18,000 18,000
Cash, etc... 5,834 22,797 9,098 13,740 16,727


installed >oWe
anclTTfickncv areEsgetitifll
.■■ ■ ■■
•m
l
m
%Zi
mmmsm
ill
‘.:i
- •
-
• v;
sam
The Largest Battery in the Commonwealth.
Installed at Castlereagh Street Sub-Station of
the Sydney Municipal Council.
:-SZ
m -
H k l
'f
: wm
\
mmm
Main Battery Boom Beam Station, Ballam, VU,
Vic. {Photo, by Darge.)
m
m
■zV/V*? |f| SS
S5jC
BBg-i
■
1 his is a further instance wnere
Tudor Batteries are selected
by engineers in every part of
the world where absolute reli-
ability is essential.
Tudor Batteries are made in
England.
Tudor Batteries for Country Home
and Farm Lighting Plants are de-
signed and built upon exactly the
same engineering principles as the
largest and most important batteries
for services of public utility and de-
fence. In addition to this, Tudor
Country House Batteries embody all
the latest improvements that have
been specially designed for the con-
venience of country users, including
complete sealing of cells, individual
plate, support, etc.
Australasian Office:
The Tudor Accumulator Co
Ltd. (London),
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
TUDOR BATTERIES are supplied
exclusively with
DELCO-LIGHT
plants by
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd.,
Sydney.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Util.,
Melbourne.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd.,
Brisbane.
Messrs. Parsons & Robertson, Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Messrs. W. F. & E. A. Stewart,
Launceston.
And with
plants by
Messrs. Dangar, Gedye, Ltd., Sydney.
Messrs. Malloch Bros., Perth.
For each of the above plants a special exclu-
sive type of TUDOR BATTERY is sup-
plied, specially designed to meet the individual
requirements of the plants.
TUDOR BATTERIES ARE
MADE IN ENGLAND.
Sitter Accimijiators


Don't Lose Your Money
CONSULT
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
ABOUT YOUR INVESTMENTS.
EXPERTS’ ADVICE GIVEN IN
ALL DEPARTMENTS.
APRIL NUMBER
NOW READY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
r
YG
IJOORD&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
m
DT
Swift & Company Ltd.. AiiKtruliiKinn Acrnts. 2fi 30 Clnrpnce St.. Sydney
WRITE FOR BOOKLET
setting out the advantages to be obtained by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE OF YOUR WILL,
TRUSTEE OF YOUR MARRIAGE OR OTHER SETTLEMENT, ATTORNEY OR AGENT.
Established over 41 years, during which it has successfully handled almost every class of asset.
Directors: Hon. R. J. BLACK, M.L.C. (Chairman) ; T. H. KELLY ; DR. ROBERT L. FAITHFULL;
Sir SAMUEL HORDERN ; WALTER T. BRUNTON ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Managing Director.
MODERATE CHARGES. ECONOMICAL MANAGEMENT.
UNDOUBTED SECURITY.
33 to 39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Manager.
Light Rolling
Straw Hats for Men
Only an ounce or two in
cool. The
‘Airway’ has 36 air holes-,
the ‘Tropical’ 24. Have
a fresh air treat. Order
now. c All Sizes.
The ‘Airway’
5/6
The “Tropic”
7/6
Pike Brothers Ltd.
In Queen Street, Brisbane
Book debts (£172,644) were heavier by
£6224, and merchandise (£86,613) by £6303.
So one way and another the more or less
liquid surplus (£178,022) was strengthened
by £52,550. Shares in Murray Shipping are
kept at par, and the other assets are be-
lieved to be in at a conservative figure.
The market neatly dzes up the position
and gives 425. for the scrip. p;.id to 255. At
that price the return is 7.4 p.c. on a 121
p.c. div. basis; the backing amounts to
40s. lOd. in net tangibles.
* * * *
Great Northern Portland Cement Co.,
Ltd., which has a nominal capital of £600,000
in £1 shares, is on the market with 400,000
of them ; 100,000 fully paids go to vendors
and the remaining 100,000 shares are in re-
serve. The money is wanted to put up
cement works near Muswellbrook, N. S.
Wales. The plant will be alongside the St.
Heliers Coal Co.’s pit, which is being taken
over for £60,000 in fully paids and £25,000
cash. The limestone will be got from the
Attunga Lime and Cement Co.’s leases, At-
tunga, which are to be bought for £40,000-
in fully paids. Engineer Poole values the
latter property, on a royalty basis, at
£37,500; and the coal proposition at £BO,OOO.
So apparently £2500 and £5OOO respectively
are being paid for goodwill in the two con-
cerns. The colliery, which works part of
the Greta seam, holds leases totalling about
5682 acres, and part of the coal deposits is
estimated at over 50,000,000 tons. It is
claimed that the colliery should be able to net
10 p.c. on its proportion of the capital.
In this respect a contract with the N. S.
Wales Government Railways for the supply
of 75,000 tons coal p.a. (for how many years
is not stated) should be a help. The
prospectus figures the cost of the cement
mill, capacity 50,000 tons p.a., at £170,000;
power plant, etc., £45,000; quarry equip-
ment. £25,000 ; water supply, sidings, rolling
stock, etc., £28,000; extra colliery equipment,
£5000; contingencies and engineering,
£27,000. Thus the present issue, when fully
subscribed, allows for a working capital of
£75,000, subject to 10 p.c. commission on ail
shares sold. Production costs, including
selling charges, arc put at £2 16s. per ton.
No estimate of net earnings is given. The
co. goes to registration when 300,000 shares
are subscribed. The prospectus rests the
case for sales mainly on the demand for
cement in Northern N. S. Wales. None of
the existing cement plants in the State are
working up to full capacity.
On the board are W. G. Davies, Hon.
R. G. D. Fitzgerald. St. G. A. Gore, H. C.
McDonald, Lt.-Col. H. F. White.
* * * *
“W.I.TT.”: Point is given to the “Wild
Cat’s” comment anent the stoppage of the
Junction North for good by the fact that 16
of the company’s staff men are employed at
the Pinnacles mine on development work.
Superintendent A. F. McAskill says that
while the mines are not producing the men
at the Pinnacles are employed on sinking
wdnzes, driving, and such-like work in accord-
ance with a developmental policy which has,
for its object, an increased output when
production is resumed.
* # * *
Dr. Malcolm Maclaren has just completed
a study of the Lake George mines at Cap-
tain’s Flat (N.S.W.) on behalf of the Chemi-
cal and Metallurgical Corporation, of Lon
don, which concern holds an option from the
National Mining Corporation, also of Lon-
don. Dr. Maclaren left for New Zealand oa
April 5, and from there moves on to Burma,
on behalf of the Burma Corporation.
* * * *
Dr. R. Krahmann, of the Elbof Geophysical
Survey organisation, is at present in Queens-
land for the purpose of preliminary inspec-
tions of Roma oilfield and Mount Isa silver-
lead. On his return to Brisbane it is ex-
pected that he will be able to inform the
Minister for Mines on the possibility of
testing these fields by geophysical methods.
Mt. Morgan and Silverspur may also be in-
cluded in his itinerary.
* * * *
Stanley Hunter, lately a drilling expert in
the Victorian Mines Department, has
accepted the job as Field Superintendent for
Builders, Ltd., which holds leases on the
Roma oilfield. He has been recently on the
spot getting preliminaries settled, and opera-
tions are expected to commence in a few
weeks’ time. His present intentions run to
a light portable engine and drill, plus a
caravan outfit to ensure mobility in field
work. With this plant scout drilling is to
be undertaken for the purpose of ascertaining
geological structures on different oil leases.
Deeper drilling operations will eventually
follow in the event of obtaining dome or
anticlinal structures. Hunter knows all the
technique of drilling, and has a sound geo-
logical knowledge as well.
# * * *
The Palmer River Gold Co., which was
founded to try out the lower reaches of the
once-famous Palmer River (N.Q.) with a
dredging plant, has had a hard battle getting
the necessary capital together. Gold dredg-
ing is a new proposition in the North, and
the directors found that speculators were
more easily induced to listen to Malayan
tin propositions than to the new departure
in their own country. The shareholders,
however, never lost confidence. The dredge
and pontoons are on the way to the field.
The plant, which weighs 300 tons, has a
monthly capacity of 60,000 cubic yards. It
is to be shifted from railhead at Laura to the
ground, some 70 miles, by a six-wheeled
motor-lorry, and the local shire council is
co-operating with the co. in improving the
road. The co. holds 1250 acres on the rivei’,
and proposes to add another dredge
later. The ground is suitable for dredging,
the gold being free and shotty. Over
3,484,000 yards of gravel have been proved
by 77 bores, the average value being esti-
mated at Is Id. per yard; and working costs
are put at Od. per yard. The cost of con-
veying and erecting the dredge is estimated
at £6250, which is to be provided out of an
issue of SOOO £1 10 p.c. cumulative pref.
shares, offered to the holders of 16,000 ords.
now paid to 10s. Shareholders not applying
for preference rights will have their ordinary
shares called up to 20s. The success of the
scheme will mean much to Queensland gold-
mining, for there are lots of areas outside
the Palmer which might be economically
tackled with a dredge, but are of too low a
value for small-scale working. The co.’s
general manager, Walter Baker, has had
a lifelong experience of bucket dredging in
Australia and M.L.
* * * *
The Return Creek Co., Mount Garnet
(N.Q.), has its pontoon in the water and the
superstructure is being erected. Recent bor-
ing operations under F. A. Roburg on the
lower stretches of Oaky Creek dredging areas
disclose ground up to 65ft. deep with wash
most of the way, and values are said to show a
workable margin. Although the depth is only
regarded as a basin, the closeness to the
Herbert River makes the possibility
of an ancient lead not so remote, especi-
ally as the head of Oaky Creek is not far
distant. Most of the tin for the last 10
years in the Mount Garnet district has come
from the gougers, working lodes and leaders.
Alluvial production has slumped to a few
hundredweight. Dredging provides the hope
for increased production, but capital is shy
of these parts. It takes a long time to live
down a past.
* * * *
“Braesider” : Re Russo-Asiatic’s interest in
Braeside, the Westralian silver-lead show
(B. 7/3/128). Leslie Urquliart agreed with
the Westralian Minister for Mines to test
Braeside leases by diamond drilling, and he
promised to put up £lO,OOO conditionally
upon the Government finding another £5OOO.
The result, thus far, is that two diamond
drills, which have been secured in Mel-
bourne, are to be sent to Braeside. One of
these is already en route to Port Hedland,
and the second should be despatched early
this month.
* * * *
The rise in Golden Horseshoes (W.A.) is
attracting attention. The Horseshoe’s mine
workings and plant are in a bad state. A
final clean-up of the treatment plant has
been made; also, the co. owes the Mines
Department £55,000, holds no share interest
in Wiluna mines and no developments of
value have been reported. Expected develop-
ments in the adjoining Chaffers mine might
explain the position, but such developments
are more likely to occur as a result of ore
bodies at depth dipping from the Horseshoe
into .Chaffers than the reverse. The most
likely cause of the market’s activity is a
rumor of an amalgamation scheme whereby
Lake View and Star co., which controls
Chaffers, may link up with the Horseshoe.
* * * *
“Peter” (W.A.) : It is reported that
metallurgist Stevens has discovered that a
satisfactory gold extrilction may be obtained
from Wiluna ores by wet crushing and oil
flotation, and that an official statement re-
garding the matter may be expected shortly.
Wet crushing and oil flotation will produce
only a concentrate, and concentrates contain
all the elements that cause the gold extrac-
tion problems with Wiluna ores. Metal-
lurgist Howe reached this point 30 years
ago as a result of his experiments at Wiluna,
but he did not get much further. The suc-
cessful precipitation of volatilized gold was
the problem Howe could not overcome, and
this difficulty arises only after concentrates
have been obtained. Recently it has been
hoped to get over this trouble by means of a
Lodge-Cottrell precipitating unit obtained
from America.
* * * *
During the last few months rich pockets
of gold have been found in W.A. at Bur-
racoppin, Bullfinch, Kookynio, Mt. Monger
and St. Ives, but the much wished for new
gold-bearing ore deposit of good value and
volume has not yet been located. Adelaide
is particularly anxious to secure an option
over such a show; meanwhile speculators
have to be satisfied with options over more
or less promising mines that have been
worked for some years.
With a State Government backing of
£2OOO in cash and £3OOO in second-hand
machinery, a local co., with a few thousands
in band or promised, is about to start gold-
production on the old Riverina mine at Mul-
line (W.A.). There is said to be much
gold left in the old mine yet, and divs.
at an early date are talked of. An Adel-
aide co., which was formerly in possession,
blundered along for a time and then came a
cropper.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance is the only West-
ralian gold-mining co. that issues quarterly
reports of its receipts, expenditure, profit
and footage driven, risen and sunk. The
December quarter's surplus, after deducting
£3583 for special expenditure on new equip-
ment, etc., was £3077. The grade of ore
treated during that period ranged from 15
to 17 dwt.
* * * *
Whim Well Copper Co. (W.A.), which has
tried several processes, is now talking of
giving another a chance. This time a treat-
ment for oxidised ore “entirely new to Aus-
tralia and partially new to any country” is
spoken of. However, it will be first necessary
to get the capital.
* * * *
Tin prices made a sharp recovery at the
beginning of April, rising nearly £l5 per
ton, but there is a good deal of apprehension
as to whether the improvement will hold,
much less continue. Future prices cannot
be judged with anything like certainty, though
there are grounds for the belief that the
slide which set in with the New Year, and
which was largely due to the fear of increased
production combined with a decrease in the
all-important American consumption, has
now been arrested. The increase in
production does not seem as formidable
a bogey as it first appeared to be. Despite
the advent of a number of new producers
the additional output was not increased in
anything like the ratio expected, few of
the new dredges contriving to get anywhere
near their prospectus estimates, though pro-
bably production is equal to consumption at
the moment. If so it is the first time it has
reached that point for some years. The
visible supplies of tin are no larger than
they were a year ago, and there are no big
reserve stocks to draw upon. More tin will
probably be bought in the Malayan fields
this year than during the last, but with the
reports of a revival in the American tin-
plate industry consumption may be ex-
pected to take the up grade. However, it
is unlikely that, under ordinary circum-
stances, the high average prices of the past
two years will be reached again.
* * * *
Of Austral Malay’s team, Kampong Kam-
unting last month treated 162,000 yards for
36 tons, an average of .501 b. per yard
compared with .591 b. for February. Costs
were 4.2 d. per yard. Asam improved, tak-
ing 45 tons from 90,000 yards, averaging
1.121 b. against .731 b. for February. Costs
here were sd. per yard. Thirty-two hours
were lost for renewals. Ulu Yam turned
over 101,000 yards for 27 tons, averag-
ing .601 b. compared with February’s .621 b.
Costs were 4.2 d. Thabawleik, which lost 225
hours through cleaning, repairs and native
holidays, won 34 tons from 40,000 yards,
average 1.91 b. Costs were 20d. The Feb-
ruary average was 1.281 b. Selayang turned
over 59,700 yards for 22 tons, thus im-
proving on the previous month’s average
with .SBlb. to the yard as against .501 b. The
low yardage was due to water trouble, which
has been overcome. The dredge is moving
into what is expected to be still richer
ground. Costs were 7.5 d. per yard. Larut’s
dredges dug 350,000 yards for 80 tons, aver-
aging ,541 b., a drop from February’s .601 b.
Costs were 4.32 d. per yard. Jelapang had
its best run to date, though the turnover was
small, recovering 24 tons from 56,000 yards,
averaging 1.021 b. per yard. February’s aver-
age was .601 b. Costs were Bd. per yard.
Ronpibon fell back in the collar, treating
54,000 yards for 7 tons, the average being
.311 b. as against .521 b. for the previous
month. Ronpibon Extended also drew in
its horns, recovering 7 tons from 38,000
yards for an average of .441 b. as against
.731 b. for February. Tin Bentong, with
24.25 tons from 84,700 yards, averaged ,681 b.
compared with February’s .721 b. Kuala
Lumpur took 19.75 tons from 52,000
yards with the No. 1 dredge. The average
was over ,891 b. as against 1.061 b. for Feb-
ruary. No. 2 dredge returned 7 tons;
no yardage was disclosed. Tongkah Com-
pound increased its output from both
dredges. Setul dug 77,440 yards for 25.5
tons, an average of over .791 b. compared
with .961 b. in the previous month. Mantin
dredge turned over 149,257 yards for 25.7
tons, averaging .421 b. as against ,541 b. for
February.
The Malay Siamese group showed high
averages, but the turnover was not great in
many and costs were very high.
In this connection it may be as well to note
that with tin at £240 —it was below that at
the beginning of the week—7s p.c. concen-
trates would be worth about Is. Gd. per
pound. Nawng Pet, the co.’s sluicing show,
put through 27,700 yards for 18.25 tons, an
average of 1.601 b. to the yard as against
1.731 b. for February. Costs are given at
Is. 2.GOd. per yard. Phin Soon, the open
cast mine, put through 36,500 yards for 30.5
tons, averaging 2.001 b. per yard thus im-
proving on the previous month’s _ 1.731 b.
Costs, however, were 2s. 5.95 d., which will
take both the gilt and the gingerbread
unless cheaper production is arrived ln
this connection field-manager F. V. Seale
has advised on the final equipment neces-
sary for this much-tested proposition. A
Diesel-driven Bucyrus shovel and light rail-
way for mining and handling overburden
are recommended. These will work in con-
junction with the present plant handling the
tin-bearing gravel, and would cost in all
about £6OOO. Cubic yardage will be doubled,
he thinks, and costs reduced to about Bd.
per yard. Of the co.’s two dredging shows
Huey Yot turned over 23,700 yards for
18.6 tons, averaging over I.BBlb. Costs are
given at Is. 6.95 d. Haad Yai recovered 20
tons from 26,000 yards, averaging 1.841 b.
No costs are given. The February averages
for these two plants are 1.531 b. and lib.
respectively.
* * * *
We stock -4- GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Advt.
* * * *
To secure greatest capacity for given expenditure,
specify Pioneer Wood Pipe. At the outset, Pioneer
Wood Pipe will carry some 15 p.c. more water, size
for size, than metal pipe, and when both are 10
years old the wood pipe will carry easily 25 p.c.
more. Look ahead, consider what saving in service,
upkeep, pumping and cleaning costs this involves.
Send for our latest book. By actual facts and
figures you can then reckon the savings Pioneer Wood
Pipe makes possible. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove (Ferry to
Figtree Bridge), N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Victoria.
—Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES —AUSTRALIAN MADE. —Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Sydney; J. R.
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses.-—Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
A Help to Inventors. Writing on January 30 last,
a recipient of a copy of the booklet “Invention”
expresses his appreciation. “Many thanks for your
booklet ‘lnvention.’ It has enlightened my friends
and myself a great deal concerning invention, and
now we can get on the right road.” You can obtain
a free copy of this interesting pamphlet by sending
your name and address to H. H. Rayward, Me.E.,
Patent Attorney and Consulting Engineer, Room 509
Sirius House, Macquarie Place, Sydney.— Advt. [2
$ * * *
The production of ice at unprecedentedly low cost
is made possible by the installation of the “National”
Crude-Oil Engine. The fuel consumption of these
engines is so low and their operation so efficient
that numbers are being installed with increasing
satisfaction to the user. The “National” Engine as
a prime mover has no equal and the reliability of a
“National” is shown by the amount of unattended
running which is done, this feature also helping to
reduce the cost per ton of producing ice. Messrs.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., of Sirius House,
Macquarie Place, Sydney, also at Melbourne, Adelaide
and Brisbane, who are the Representatives of the
National Gas Engine Co., will be only too pleased
to give the fullest particulars to interested inquirers,
as now is the time to consider the re-equipment of
your plant for the next season.—Advt.


m
jwc
SBf
k
*2
k?
ON
w
:s
Mechanical Excellence
This Four is Dodge Brothers
answer to the ever-present,
world-wide demand for a
car of medium size, medium
price, great economy --- and
yet of custom smartness and
exceptional performance.
Dependability, long life,
simplicity, low maintenance
expense and fuel economy
are here embodied to the
maximum degree.
Mechanical exc ell ence,
through and through, accounts
for this superiority. Dodge
Brothers Four is soundly engi-
neered, and built to precision
standards of workmanship.
Metals used in its construction
are the finest that metallurgy
has developed.
Now equipped with Four Wheel Brakes (Steeldraulic) at no extra cost.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
Dodge- Brothers
MOTOR CARS
F 338.


A LONG-FELT WANT NOW SATISFIED.
The 28-h.p. “STOCK Endless Chain Tractor
Front Wheel Drive.
The Machine that cannot rear under the heaviest loads, thus giving 100 p.c. tractive efficiency.
3 FORWARD SPEEDS:
Ist, 2 M.P.H.
2nd, 3 M.P.H.
3rd, 5 M.P.H.
REVERSE, 1.6 M.P.H,
TURNING RADIUS,
6ft.
RUNS ON EITHER
BENZINE OR
KEROSENE.
1
C(U
W
FUEL CONSUMPTION
LOW.
ALL WORKING
PARTS EASILY
ACCESSIBLE.
ADJUSTABLE DRAW-
BARS TO GIVE HIGH
OR LOW PULL.
BELT PULLEY 11m.
DIAM., 1000 R.P.M.
THE HIGH-POWER TRACTOR FOR ALL WORK.
This is a simply-constructed, light, high-grade machine weighing only 48501 b., including fuel and water, and giving a drawbar pull of 35001 b. in first
gear, which is equal to the load pulled by 12 average farm horses working continuously.
Owing to the weight of this machine being Over the front or driving axle any overloading does not lift the front wheels, but merely pushes the back
wheels further into the ground, thus giving the chains a better road grip. This, coupled with the fact that the initial road grip and thrust is derived
from the FRONT END of the chain, entirely eliminates all possibility of this machine rearing under the heaviest loads.
PRICE: £4 95
Complete with cable winch.
THIS EXHIBIT HAS EARNED UNQUALIFIED PRAISE AT
THE 1928 R.A.S. SHOW.
Full details and specifications of these remarkable machines cannot be given in the space allowed, but descriptive literature, plans and all informa-
tion will be forwarded free on request by SOLE AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS—
STOCK MOTOR PLOUGHS LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney. G.P.O. Box 219 d. Agents in Other States will shortly be appointed.
THE “SUNTYNE”
COMBINED GRAIN & FERTILIZER DRILL & SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR
For clean
and
thorough
cultivation
r '
W*,.
■ ■ *
ri.
For perfect
sowing
and rapid
germination
One of the reasons for the success of the "Suntyne” is that it sows the seed and fertilizer on a levelled compacted sub-surface, covered to a uniform
depth by a top mulch of well pulverised soil—the ideal condition for rapid germination and vigorous early growth.
WILL SOW AS SHALLOW OR DEEP AS DESIRED.
Sizes—from 17 tynes, sowing 8 rows, covering sft.; to 47 tynes, sowing 24 rows, covering 14ft.
Illustrated Catalogue and prices with particulars of easy extended terms sent post free on request.
MANUFACTURED BY
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke-street West, Melbourne. 102-105 North Terrace, Adelaide.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney. Cor. King & Murray Sts., PERTH.
Distributors for Queensland: H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.


Lhp cpnine of
Queene/anefs
Sichnpuished
Social Life.
i&l
Brisbane
Magnificent Ballroom, Palm
Court, and Lounges at the
disposal of guests afid their
friends at all times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single Bedrooms, with Bath-
rooms attached. Hot and cold running water and Electric
Fans in every Bedroom, together with every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
TELEGRAMS <& CABLES —LENNONS, BRISBANE.
1 TELEPHONE CENT. 57 8O(l O LI NES).
"Such a reputation is not won overnight
Wt
tt
mm
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d ♦ . . ♦ 20 for 1/6
•win
Major Drapkin <£ Co., London. Branch of The United
Kingdom Tobacco Co., cti
ABOPIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
INCOMPREHENSIBLE.
BILL: “ ’Ow’s yer eldest boy gettin’ on at work?”
JOE: “I can’t make ’im out. ’E says ’e likes it.”
“Up North”: Why are there so few ’roos
in Cape York Peninsula? The country over
large areas appears suitable, and there are
no fences for hundreds of miles, with barely
a hundred men scattered over 400 miles;
Binghi also has dwindled from thousands
to hundreds. Theoretically the Toos should
have increased to huge mobs, but throughout
the peninsula they are to be met with m
scattered pairs only. In the Cape Melville
countrv alone have I seen a really large
mob. Wallabies in patches are plentiful,
on some rocky mountains they swarm like
sheep; but over large areas even they live
only in scattered groups. They are most
numerous among mountains of granite
boulders without a vestige of soil, lhese
masses are really a million caves dropping
into subterranean tunnels and holes of un-
known depth, up from which gusli strange
noises and the tinkle of water falling over
rocks down in the belly of the earth. Ihe
Black Mountains outside of Cooktown are
such a range, and throughout the peninsula
are similar unique landmarks.
* * * *
“J HS”: “Sucker” talks nonsense when
he says (B. 7/3/’2S) that 25 points of rain
will bring down a creek a banker at the
tail-end of five or six inches. No matter
in how short a space of time it came down
or how much rain had fallen previously,
points would put merely a passing rise of
a few feet of water in a small creek and con-
siderably less in a stream of any propor-
tions. But perhaps where “Sucker” hangs
out there is only one small stream to the
thousand square miles, with all the ground
sloping sharplv towards the gully. On com-
paratively level ground with a fairly porous
subsoil 25 points of rain falling lightly would
soak in almost as fast qs it fell, even after
a downpour of five or six inches.
* * * *
“Trevdee”: Ned the drover was getting it
hot from the overseer. He had left the
shed, 14 miles away, a week back with a
mob of newly-shorn wethers, and, after a
meeting with thirsty cobbers, had arrived
at the station with his cart, four hungry
dogs and two lean horses, but no sheep.
After listening contritely to a quarter-hour
of solid growling Ned began to grow irritated.
Tlip overseer was only a little man, and no
big fellow can stand being roused at by a
little ’un for long. “What about the sheep—
where are they?” asked the boss for the
fiftieth time. “They’re lost!” “Aw, close yer
mag,” Ned said with sudden vehemence,
“they ain't lorst. Australia’s surrounded
be water and the flamin’ sheep can t get
out —so shut up !”
*** . *
“E.S.”: Froggy, an old farmer who did
odd jobs for the shire, thus wrote to the
council of one job that had escaped him:
“Your chairman he did instruct me to remove
and burn one old mare with cancer that lay
on the road for two days near the river
crossing. I did walk four miles, and find
the mare as specified. She was nearly dead,
but not yet. I have a kind heart, which
has caused me to lose much moneys in my
life. I did not like to burn the poor old
creature while some little wind was left in
its insides, so I did hit him first, when—
Presto ! the old villain did stagger up on its
THE WAY OF IT.
“I do ’ear thee’st got a Hi-talian workin’ down in thy stope. How’st get on with un?
Doest understand un ’t all?”
“Busy all! Ef tha dedn’t knaw what ’e was talkin’ ’bout, tha wouldst never know
what he was tellin’ ’ee.”
front legs, and after sitting up some time like
a dog, did by-and-bye erect altogether and
walk away and escape me, and I did lose my
15s. Now, gentlemen, would you look kindly
on the situation; my whole day did lose,
walk I did eight miles, my stick blow did
remove the horse, as per instructed, but
burn the old thing I could not. I could
not catch him.”
* . * * *
“C. Coral” : Rain has been scarce in some
of the Torres Strait islands, especially in
the low-lying ones, and seed and plants have
suffered in consequence. “Yes,” said Jimmy
Susu, “close up we all lose, I tink—we got
all that work for nothing. And ’nother
thing—you savee them cuckoo bird, and that,
’nother kind pigeon white man call curlew?
Them fella proper humbug; he spoilt we
like ’ell. When that school-inspector come
last year, lie tell us, ‘That curlew
he good friend for man; he kai-kai
them small grub and worm what spoil
plant in garden.’ But that curlew lie
gammon that inspector. He no kai-kai
worm; he kai-kai all pumpkin-seed and corn
belong we. cover over them seed,
smooth that ground so nobody can see where
we plant him; but them curlew and ’nother
pigeon he come, he go straight for that
place and dig with nose belong him and
kai-kai everything finish. I tink he smell
that seed.”
* * * *
“M.L.” : I see by The Bulletin that Dr.
Macgillivray is interesting himself in trying
to stop the slaughter of native birds. One
thing that should be done is to prohibit the
sale of birdlime to boys. There was a time
in Maoriland when goldfinches, chaffinches,
redpoles, fantails and wax-eyes came in
hundreds about the springs quite close to the
towns; now there are hardly any. I have
seen boys with hatfuls of these tiny crea-
tures, eight out of ten of which die if kept
in captivity. * * *
“Kilcoy”: Here is an instance of the
initiative and fortitude of an Australian
boy. A Kilcoy (Q.) grazier sent his seVen-
year-old son into one of the paddocks to
bring cows home. When the child was some
distance from the house a black snake fas-
tened on one of his bare feet. The little
fellow sat down, tore a strip off his garments
and bound it tightly above the bitten part;
to make doubly sure he pulled a strand out of
his whip and used it also. He then pulled
out his pocket-knife and scarified the wound.
After that he hastened home, where his
father hopped him into the car and they
drove to tlie doctor. The boy suffered no ill
effects. On being questioned as to who had
taught him first-aid he replied that only a
a few days previously his teacher had given
his class a lesson on the subject.
* * * *
“Melos”: “E.V.S.” (B. 21/3/’2B) _is off
the track in saying that pawpaw fruit con-
tains pepsin. The digestive agent present m
this vegetable-fruit and its leaves is papain;
it has been demonstrated that this digestive
extract exudes when meat fibre is brought
into contact with the leaves. We had a paw-
paw in our backyard some years ago and it
was the best asset on the premises. From its
fruit mum made chutney, sauces, pickles,
jam and other delicacies ; its leaves supplied
dad with tobacco, and also formed the basis
of healing ointments and cosmetics, and when
we had any toughness in the meat from the
butcher we soused it in a decoction of young
pawpaw leaves, with gratifying results.
:|: * * *
“Manuka” : An axeman in a survey party
in the Lake St. Clair district (Tas.) recently
cut into a dead stringybark log. The timber
in the centre was still green. Another hand,
who has lived all his life in the district,
assured me that the log had lain there at
least 20 years. I have never come across a
similar case.
* * * *
“B-Gar”: Here’s something of interest
to drovers, boundary riders and “ringers.”
Whilst punching a mob of Marion Downs
bullocks from S.-W. Q’land to trucks at
Hergott Springs (S.A.), we killed our last
beef near the Birdsville gate. After truck-
ing and a trip to Adelaide, we had the same
old corn-beef four months afterwards, at
the camp where the beast was killed and
salted. After soaking for a few hours, the
“junk” when cooked was Al. Has anyone
ever kept dry-salted beef longer 1
* * * *
“Old Timer”: Not one in every thousand
city people has any idea what the song of the
bell-birds is like. One bell-bird cannot sing
a song; it needs a number of them. Take an
empty thin glass tumbler and a lead pencil.
Hold the glass in one hand and with the
other strike once lightly and sharply with
the pencil. There you have the sweet note
of a bell-bird, and the only sound it makes—
unless when scared; then it has the usual
whirring cry of bush-birds. Imagine a
flock of 50 or more sounding that one sweet
note again and again. Such is the tinkling
bell music, at once the sweetest and yet the
loneliest song in the Australian bush.
(Continued on page 250
THE GATE HOTEL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“We’ll stop awhile and refresh,” said Dan,
“When we get to the Gate Hotel;
From camp to camp ’tis a lonely span,
And the road we travel is hard on a man,
And rough on the mokes as well.”
With bridles swinging, in haze and reek,
And the sun like a ball of brass.
We topped a hill and we crossed a creek,
“And there,” said Dan, “is the place we
seek.
You can tell by the broken glass.”
There was never gleam of a roof in sight,
No paddock nor yard to see;
Just a reedy pool in a grassy bight,
A fence that straggled to left and right,
And the shade of a friendly tree.
In piles and scattered on either side,
Lay dozens of dead marines,
Cast there by men who were forced to ride
Where the ways are long and the runs are
wide.
And far from their Madelines.
For the Gate Hotel was an old bush gate
That stood on the winding track,
Where, riding early or riding late,
Hard rovei’s halted to lubricate
And lighten the outward pack.
No bar was there, and no barman toiled
The glittering pile to swell;
Men brought their own in the jar and flask,
Though old-time teamsters oft tapped a cask,
To refresh at the Gate Hotel.
They tarried long or a little while,
Perhaps in the dead of night,
And talked or slept with a happy smile,
With a fire aglint on the glassy pile,
And a horse astray in the bight.
Then with a jest or a roaring song,
Or a peppery yarn to tell,
They left their dead where the dead belong,
And took the road of the gipsy throng
Away from the Gate Hotel.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


m
V
m
mm
"?4 -,-
Sv4'i
■**
t*w%s
viS^
*
*r
!*pS
•>.
P%2*
/I. ./. Terdich (llugath) leading. lie
averaged 66 w.p.h. for first 85 miles.
hiy ; \
I I *>* j/ w
. > ' S.»* .
5.5.. v;
#5
SW
- j
W-'i
’4 .P 4 :k
tm
m
%
38fe5|
-*- v
-s*s
■P'PP P 4
p 444 4jy
■
: .'- H
Hs
i W I
1 - *' gjr
Hi
4.4
m m
9
w 1
■ ..
. ; |4g^f*spg4<f4
m
.
■
mm : ‘
444 ■
if' iSsiSfpss f. if tfifi si i f:
:: 4 11111 l
Ib&!9C
* : 4.. ' t£&
&CP ;.<. ,
. ''-''
4 . -..'iff..
a4i : i«pi»|r 111
—■m
Ills
*si
'4.
i
a
•4
11
■ mm
lv ■ ' ; '
.45,;-:
m
»•
■M *T4\. .
''kMfmi. / _ ■ _
sta —i*
1^
I 1
M
-' s."' t' -4'!
s 4 : -4
• ■ * fg%
__ | 2
VICTORIAN LIGHT CAR CLUB
lNif HI
-' .^r;
■
■
fa
■- f
ii* *
I
•'V -
■ ?& SB fl|
4
1
it Mmmßmm
• . s 4 | *
■ : ;
■I
m
B
m % S'Tl 1..
f • Jr
■H
B .
■
17.1
v4vi
mm
m ■
■
I '
*
m if ff ■:,
W-* ft
, "4 " ’
C. R. Dickason ( Austin) skids into
straw rampart which prevented him
from crashing into deep ditch.
J. Wiliamson
{Riley) skidding
on corner.
DUNLOP
Dependability
in
AUSTRALIA’S
FIRST
MOTOR CAR
ROAD RACE
(100 Miles—Phillip Island—Vic.)
15 of the 17 Starters
used Dunlop ... and not
one of the 15 had the
slightest tyre trouble...
despite the terrific cor-
nering.
Class “B” won on Dunlop
Class “C” won on Dunlop
Class a D” won on Dunlop
The hardest of driving conditions only
serve to emphasise the quality and de-
pendability of Dunlop Tyres. They are
also supreme for mileage and comfort.
YOUR GARAGE STOCKS DUNLOP
All States Dunlop Rubber Co. of Aust., Ltd. and N.Z.
J. A. Day
( Bugatti ) tak-
ing corner at
high speed.
J. 0. McCutcheon (Morris Cowley) winning “D” Class—average speed 54.6 m.p.h.


Wm m
Money
Makes
the
Skins
worth getting. It’s not
what they are, but
what they realise
which chiefly concerns
you. Top values are
what you want. See
that you get them. For highest possible prices—
consign Rabbit, Fox and all other Skins to
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Salesmen,
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
I J
V
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
PEAPES
—for men AND their sons.
Essentially a House for men and
their sons, Peapes concentrate all
their energies, all their resources,
all their experience since 1866 in
providing the newest in style,
the highest in quality and the
most pronounced in value.
Such a House naturally offers
better service, since there are
no side issues to distract it from
its main purpose.
George Street
(Opp. Hunter Street),
Sydney.
“B-Gar” : The travelling hawker, who be-
fore the advent of motor-cars and lorries
was a constant visitor to out-back shearing
sheds, is rarely seen nowadays. The brothers
Bennett, the big-gun hawkers of the far
uor’-west of Queensland, who annually made
trips into the Northern Territory with
several drays and waggons loaded with
goods, retired recently after many years'
faithful catering for the wants of the people
out-back.
* * 4* *
“Prooshan Pat”: Even a jackass may
tumble. At Kurrajong (N.S.AV.) recently,
two kookas, were perched on a chimney hav-
ing their sunset laugh. One, leaning back in
his outburst, lost grip of the chimney-pot
and fell. It was a very sooty old Jack
we found blinking on the hob.
* * .* *
“Carhue”: In our house we have a sad
case of misplaced affection. Two years ago
a young swallow, reared on the premises,
fell in love with his own reflection in the
large mirror in the bathroom. This mirror
FIXING THE POSITION.
BOSS: “I heard a big row down at the camp last night.”
MARY: “Yes; Billy bin stop one right between plurry nose.”
is at right angles to the door, which opens
on to the verandah. Here the swallow can see
the reflection of the open door, and in his
endeavor to fly out through the seeming
doorway he is met by a false but fair-seeming
swallow who coyly responds to his every
advance. Up and down the smooth bin
treacherous surface he skims, followed by ins
amorous shadow. For hours a day he flut-
ters and kisses, lured on by the never-
failing response and never daunted by hi
inability to touch the loved one. Other
birds find mates, build nests, and eomple. ■
their thrilling cycle • but our httle triend
remains faithful to his beautiful illusion,
fluttering up and down, twittering and listen-
ing for the reply that never comes.
* * * *
“Gouger” : An instance of occult sympathy
between man and animal occurred at Eba-
goolah (N.Q.). My mate loved his horse.
(>ne night he was much worried, apparently
without cause, and rather shamefacedly ad
mitted he thought something was wrong with
Baldy. He left the camp abruptly, mumbling.
"Baldy is bogged; I’m sure of it; I can see
him. He is sinking in the mud and telling
me all lie can to come quickly.” I soon had
to run to follow the lantern bobbing among
the trees. Baldy was bogged right enough,
in a creek nearly two miles distant. I shall
never forget that horse, nearly done, with
his head stretched out of the mud and his
great eyes shining as he whinnied to the
living lantern.
* * * * *
“Atticus”: I sincerely hope “Six-and-
Eight” (B. 14/3/’2B) won’t try Ins plan
for getting out of thick scrub in the moun-
tains —especially if lie has a horse. In
most cases, even if he does get safely down
to water, following it would soon bring him
into a labyrinth of precipitous gullies, and
he’d finish up with a dead or maimed horse.
The only safe course to take in the moun-
tains is to get on the divide between waters
and stick there. But it isn’t child’s play in
any case.
i\t -!* *!*
“Manuka” : Recently I had a heated argu-
ment as to whether a snake can spring for-
ward more than a few inches. Someone
maintained that he’d seen snakes spring six
or seven feet and I had the temerity to doubt
it. Bets were made, and we decided to abide
by the decision of the Abo. .Council, if that
could be got. What about it?
J{t 5k i\i
“B-Gar”: The lady cook had instructed
Jacky to be sure and bring up the bullock’s
brains in time for breakfast; but the station
boys had been there first. Jacky’s explana-
tion was, “That fellow bullock, he been
worker —baal have any brains.”
fc s!= * *
“Dimon”: Though Jack Shark plays the
part of leading villain on Australian coasts,
he is not the boss panjandrum of the sea.
One of his deadly enemies is the swordfish,
an ugly-looking rover to meet in deep water.
I have never heard of it attacking a man,
but it will go full steam ahead at the biggest
shark that swims. The man-eater knows
what to expect, and his hurry to avoid a
collision screens him in a swirl of bubbles.
Killers, long befriended by the whalers at
Eden for the assistance they give in yarding
WRONG GUESS.
PARSON : “I suppose it was the craving for beeah that brought yon heeah, poor man?”
PRISONER: “Rats, Mister! A man don’t expect ter get beer ’ere!”
the huge cetacean, are also formidable foes
of the sea lawyer. If these scamps appear
when the killers are rounding up a whale, Tom
and Hookey will quickly attack and drive
them away; and when there is no whale in
the offing, and a pressing desire for fillet on
the premises, it is look out for old man
shark. He may be tougher and more tenaci-
ous than a whale, but when a school of
ravenous Orca gladiators have decided .to
make a banquet of him they mob him with
a ferocity and determination that he can
only counter by scorching frantically for
mid-ocean.
* * * *
“Jimmy ’Possum”: There had been a
heavy downpour the night beforehand for the
after-dinner rest I impro-
vised a conch by bending
over two young saplings and
packing them with leafy
branches laid crosswise.
With my bluchers kicked off
and my bare feet resting on
the ground, one on either
side of my “couch,” I rested
in the shade, smacking at
flies and swatting mosqui-
toes. After a while a half-
grown goanna came march-
ing up the hill in search of
scraps. I lay perfectly still
to see what he would do
when he noticed me. Cau-
tiously he crawled about,
flickering his forked tongue,
and picking up a scrap as he
came across it. Presently I
felt a cool, investigating
tongue playing about my
ankles and toes. Pie seemed
perplexed, and backed away
a few inches. Then he came
up again, and suddenly I
felt something close firmly
about my big toe. I waited
for no more. I gave a
kick and a yell and hopped
to my feet. Go. never stopped
till lie had reached the top-
most branch of a mammoth
tallow-wood 50 yards away.
“B. Goode” : It's a case of catch fish or
starve for the unfortunate tyke in a Solo-
mon Island village (B. 14/3/’2B). He is a
meat-eater with an environment of abso-
lutely no meat, and a diet of banana and
native potato soon puts him on his mettle.
A dead fish found on the beach suggests a
change of menu, and the beach-prowl becomes
part of his beat; the next step is the dog
going into the water after small fish driven
up the shallows. The cats in the native
villages are also forced to take to the water.
In fine weather the women and children go
daily to their garden plots on the smaller
islands, and the cat, being personal and port-
able property, is taken with them. The
canoes are kellicked out from the beach, ami
puss has a choice of a day on a diet of
tropical air or a swim ashore to catch lizard '•
and the like. The lizards prove irresistible.
The result is that the present generation
of island cats takes to water naturally.
* - * * *
“Adamascus”: A young fox-terrier pup
given to m-e began to lose patches of hair
all over its body. I tried half a dozen
remedies without success. Then one. morn-
ing I discovered the sufferer finishing off
a pound of butter carelessly left on the
verandah. A few days afterwards, without
any treatment in the meantime, its hair began
to grow, and in a month Avas as fine and
smooth as that of a prize Pekinese. Every-
thing points to the butter having effected
a cure.
.
“Wandi” : Several Australian woods have
been found to be highly suitable for rifle
stocks. These include the Victorian black-
wood, Queensland walnut, Tasmanian red
myrtle, NCav South Wales coachwood, the
bean tree (Moreton Bay chestnut) and
West Australian blackbutt. There are
other woods quite as good, and one superior
to any of them is tulip. This hard and
beautifully-polishing wood was once plenti-
ful in N. S. Wales and Queensland scrubs,
but is now very scarce, and is, I think, prob-
ably the most highly-priced wood in Aus-
tralia. Great quantities of it were destroyed
in the clearing of the big scrubs along the
eastern coast. It should be propagated on all
suitable reserves set apart for reafforestation,
together with the red and black bean and
the red and golden cedar.
“Outback”: Tim popular impression that
rabbits cannot swim is wrong. Waiting for
a fellow sportsman on a river bank I suav
Avhat appeared to be a Avisp of grass being
gently guided on the water by the wind.
When it came near it proved to be a rabbit.
The thing landed, shook itself and, after
gazing round, slipped quietly away. On
another occasion some rabbits were cornered
on a peninsula of a lagoon. It looked bad
for the bunnies, but they took to the Avater
and swam a distance of nearly a quarter of
a mile.
* * * =:<
“Mum-Muk”: Every year thousands of
booby birds rear their young on the unin-
habited island of Keeling, 15 miles from
Cocos. Thirty or 40 years ago the boobies
regularly built their nests on the ground,
but owing to the annual visitations of the
Malays from Cocos, who come to gather
fallen cocoanuts, these birds have gradually
taken to the trees for nesting sites. To-
day they can be seen hatching their young at
the tops of the highest trees on the island,
while none nest in their former sites.
THE HOOD TIME COMING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One day a thing comes easy,
An’ one day it comes ’ard;
One day a man is breezy,
The next no comers barred.
The mob thinks itself clever,
Too right. But strike me fat!
You'll find the blighters never
Take note of things like that.
One day ’is luck ’ll find 'im,
’E’ll do a bonzer ’and ;
The mob is right behind ’im,
An’ things is gain’ grand.
The next day ’e’ll be lonely
And well upon ’is pat.
The mob remembers only
The day that ’e went flat.
You’ll ’ear the flamers yappin’:
“Ole Jimmy’s slipped a ton.
'E’s ready now for scrappin’;
Pore cow, ’e’s nearly done.”
They’ll tell you that ’e’s yeller,
They’ll reckon ’e’s a flop,
An' jist hecos a feller
Ain’t alius at his top.
But they ain't done with Jimmy;
The ole man ain’t quite dead.
His ole eyes ain’t so dim ’e
Can’t see a break a’ead.
A man’ll be in clover
Before long, don’t yer fret.
Me good days ain’t orl over,
I’ll show the blighters yet.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
Tlie right of selection and rejection is reserved.
.To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on onlv one subject at
a time.
The Service Department has come to the conclusion that it ought to be giving
more help to wireless users and would-be users. To this end it has added to its
great chain of professional helpers two radio experts, whose opinions and knowledge
will be available to readers who forward inquiries.
Wants.
Strong boy, 15, with some experience,
wants farm work (not dairy). Good home
and influence essential. (Direct to U. C.,
Box 937, G.P.O., Sydney.)
Experienced cleaner seeks similar position,
country or city (N.S.W.) ; holds lift-driver’s
certificate; also certified bookkeeper; good
refs.—4034.
Single man, 20, strong, healthy, Univer-
sity education and wide exp., offers services
industrial chemistry, pharmacy, clerical,
motor driving or bush ; anything, anywhere.
—4036.
Lady, 28, shorthand, legal exp., good
English scholar and of good address, desires
secretarial position ; state salary.—4022.
Woman, young, engaged publicity work,
Melbourne, wants similar employment; sample
of work submitted. (Direct “Alert,” 18
Hayes-strect, Northcote, Vic.)
Farmer (33). returned soldier, wants posi-
tion middle of April, lifetime experience, can
drive any farm machinery, used to horses,
tractors (steam or oil) and do running re-
pairs, and can handle sheep and cattle. Could
wait till after harvest for wages.—4102.
Ex-steward, good refs., experience as valet,
will undertake office, shop- or flat-cleaning.
(Direct to ’Phone FI410.)
By man (27), ex-R.N., employment ashore,
preferably rigging or as carpenter; ex. refs.
—4085.
Teacher, ex-A.I.F., experience farm and
station, wants work during three weeks’
vacation in May.—4094.
Car-driver and mechanic, 21, five years’
practical experience city and country, total
abstainer, highest refs., wants employment.
—4118.
To sell, 9 vols. Social Science; 18s. 6d.
posted.—4Q5G.
Whereabouts of Hector Hair. (Direct to
Archie Hair, Willung, Rosedale, Vic.)
h or sale building block, end of tramline.
Augusta-road, New Town, Tasmania • £250
or offer.—4076.
Loan of “Shirley,” “Jane Eyre,” “The
Professor” and other works by Charlotte
Bronte; also “Life of Charlotte Bronte,” by
Mrs. Gaskell; wanted by teacher; will pay
all postage. (Direct to H. L. Dale, Public
School, Moama, N.S.W.)
To sell, Paling Victor piano, as new:
reasonable price ; inspection invited.—1070.
To sell upright grand Foster piano, wal-
nut, tip-top condition ; guaranteed ; open
to inspection.—4027.
To get into touch with any who heard
Homer Lane lecture on education and
psychology to the A.I.F. at Cambridge
about 1918. (Direct to Miss E. M. Symon,
G.P.O., Brisbane, Queensland.)
,.r original drawing by Phil May,
The Case as it Stands” (caricature of
Parkes as a burglar), published Bulletin,
Oec. 17, 1887; size 12in. by Din.; good con-
dition.—4035.
To sell, cheap, fourfold screen, revolving
floor polisher and Ewbank carpet sweeper,
or would exchange.—4044.
Amateur artist would like company of young
art student, male, as his guest on sketch-
ing trip, South Coast (N.S.W.), for about
10 days, commencing Easter Monday.—4045.
To buy blocked newsagency, Brisbane or
suburbs. Willing pay £1500. No agents.—
4116.
To communicate with persons in possession
or knowing whereabouts of a set of six large
water-colors by Frank Mahony, illustrative
of Adam Lindsay Gordon’s “The Sick Stock-
rider.”—4114.
Whereabouts of D. Lyall, of Mosgiel
/s ’ believed to have been in Gordonvale
(N-Q-,) 1926. (Direct to T. Lyall,
Wylie's Crossing, Mosgiel, M.L.)
i rvwV° k collect01 ' wants to sell private library,
1000 rare and important books, catalogue
free. (Direct to C. H. Eggleton, Box 133,
Wanganui, M.L.)
By public schoolboy, 18, country bred,
position as jackeroo on sheep or cattle
station, N. Tablelands (N.S.W.) or S
Queensland, for choice.—4126.
To sell, two tailored-to -measure suits,
serge and worsted, nearly new; cost £ 9 ° •
take £10 or offer.—4127.
To purchase books dealing with the Society
of friends (Quakers) ; send price find full
particulars.—4133.
Information Sought.
(1) What is the best, treatment for foot-
rot m sheep? (2) What is the best pre-
ventive ? —3780.
(1) After the feet have been trimmed and
otherwise properly prepared, the sheep should
be passed through a foot bath consisting of
solution of copper sulphate in the propor-
tion of six ounces to the gallon of water.
This may be required to be repeated the
following day and as many times subsequently
as may appear necessary, the sheep being
placed on well-drained pasture following
the treatment. (2) For prevention it is
necessary to keep the sheep from swampy
and boggy pastures, and avoid overstocking
and any conditions which are likely to
cause maceration, overgrowth of hoof, or
other injury which would allow organisms
to enter. Walking the sheep over recently
slaked lime is also recommended as a preven-
tion.
What conditions arc necessary for a town
to become a city in N.5.W.? —3863.
The area must first have been constituted
a municipality; it must have had during che
preceding five years an average population
of **t least 20,000 persons; it must have had
during the preceding five years an average
gross income from all sources of at least
£20,000; it must be an independent centre
of population and not a suburb, whether
residential, industrial, commercial, or mari-
time, of any other municipality or centre of
population.
How can I coat pills with sugar or choco-
late, in different colorst —39ll.
Commercially, pills are given a chocolate
or sugar coating by means of a machine
known as the centrifugal coater, thousands
being treated at the same time. On a small
scale they are rolled while still damp in
icing-sugar or chocolate. To color them,
some non-poisonous pigment is first added
to the sugar or chocolate.
(1) Docs the vaccine treatment prevent
mammitis in cows, and if so, for how long
are the animals immune? (2) Is there any
danger of introducing mammitis by inocu-
lation? (3) Is there any difference between
the Hamilton vaccine and that supplied by
the N.SW. Dept of Agriculture? —373o.
(1) Vaccine treatment is successful if
properly used. The particular form of
mammitis present must be ascertained, as
only the specific vaccine for that particular
form can be expected to have any satisfac-
tory results. For this it is necessary to
make a bacteriological examination of the
milk. It is not definitely known how long
immunity lasts, but there is evidence that
it extends over a period of two years. As
a means of treatment for cattle already
affected the results have not been satis-
factory. (2) Inoculation of cattle as a pre-
ventive has never been known to cause the
disease. (3) It is understood that the
Hamilton vaccine people prepare what is
known as a mixed vaccine. They have also
used a single vaccine. The vaccine used by
the Agricultural Department is that pre-
pared by the Commonwealth Laboratories
and is generally the single vaccine used for
contagious mammitis, due to a streptococ-
cus Which is the commonest form of mam-
mi tis. Mixed vaccines are also obtainable.
Who are the five greatest masters of the
short story? Would Balzac and Guy de
Maupassant be included? —39ss.
It is a matter of individual judgment and
opinion. As the fairest way of answering
your question we took votes from 10 mem-
bers of the literary staff of The Bulletin,
who favored O. Henry, Kipling, De Mau-
passant, H. G. Wells and Leonard Merrick,
in that order. Balzac was tenth on the list.
De Maupassant was placed first on five lists,
O. Henry on two, and Kipling, Merrick and
Galsworthy respectively headed the remain-
ing three.
Can ammonium nitrate be used as a fer-
tiliser, and in what way? —3BBs.
Ammonium nitrate is a rich nitrogenous
fertiliser and only its high price prevents
its general use. It contains, according to
purity, up to 35 per cent, of nitrogen and
can be used exactly like ammonium sulphate
and nitrate of soda, only, of course, using
about half the amount.
I am employed in the British Solomon
Islands by a Sydney company, and was en-
gaged in Sydney. Am I entitled to the bene-
fits of the N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation
Act in case of injury? —39s4.
No. _Tlie operation of the Workers’ Com-
pensation Act, 1926-27, is strictly territorial
and compensation is not payable to a worker
who is injured outside the territorial limits
of the State. This principle has been ex-
pressly laid down in Tomalin v. Pearson,
1909, 2 K.B. 61.
What ought I to do to mango- and orange-
trees which have a greyish-white spot on
them? .The mangoes are worst, as the leaves
get broivn and fall off. —3901.
Presuming that the spots are due to scale
insects, thoroughly spraying, so that all parts
of the foliage are wetted, with red-oil emul-
sion—one part to 40 parts water —will b»
beneficial; several applications at six-weeks’
intervals are necessary. Well thinning the
orange-trees before spring growth and
materially shortening the mango branches
would reduce the labor in spraying. Liberal
fertilising with a complete fertiliser would
increase the trees’ resistance to attack.
Information Supplied.
2968.—T0 renovate typewriter ribbons,
\vait till you have two old worn-out ribbons.
Drop one in a tobacco-tin with about half
an inch of benzine. When it's soaked run it
through finger and thumb and drain it back
into, the tin. Then put in the other ribbon
on its spool and leave it to soak, till evapo-
ration has taken all but the dregs of the ben-
zine. Pour the residue over the spool and
replace on machine when dry. By that
means I have got an extra 25,000 words out
of a ribbon. I haven’t tried it on two-color
ribbons.—“Pigcat.”
3487.- Shark Fisheries, Ltd., O’Riordan-
street, Alexandria, Sydney, will purchase all
sharks that can be delivered at their works
at a reasonable figure. This company is
manufacturing leather, fertiliser, oils and fish
meal, and is anxious to get in touch with
anyone able to catch sharks.—“Wobbegong.”
3527.—Benzine will kill borers only by
actual contact, as it is too light and volatile
to penetrate any distance. Kerosene is better
for the job, especially if the wood can be
well soaked in it.—“ Max.”
3827.—50ak the bSche-de-mer for three
days, changing the water thrice daily, scrap-
ing well each time. Boil for four hours, and
when soft cut into small pieces. About lib.
is required for the following recipe: Three
quarts of stock, two hard-boiled eggs, one cup
of prawns, one cup of mushrooms, one onion,
one small chicken. Mince the onion and
chicken and simmer in the stock for two
hours, then add the mushrooms and eggs, all
cut in small pieces. The b@che-de-mer is
added about an hour before serving. The
prawns are put in, and also a glass of
good skerry wine, just at the last. The soup
must be served very hot.—“Silentio.”
3960. — (1) Saltpetre, 75 parts; charcoal,
15 parts; sulphur, 10 parts. The ingredients
require a very fine grinding, and then a
thorough mixing of the whole. (2) Question
obscure. Do you mean the color of the gun-
powder itself or the color of its flame when
used in fireworks? If the latter, various
chemicals are added to give different colors. —
“ W.F.”
3380.—A Laverton (W.A.) aboriginal
informed me that Coolgardie was the native
name for goanna and Ivalgoorlie the name
for the wild (silk) pear. I have often
heard him refer to the latter as kalgoorlies.
—“W.A.T.”
3705.—White wines originated in Europe.
They are made by fermenting grapes without
the skins. Sparkling hock is also of Euro-
pean origin. It is made from white grapes
and subjected, like all sparkling wines, to a
second fermentation. —“P.W.L.”
3886. —Snake-skins can be cured with pow-
dered alum, which bleaches the skin almost
snow-white. Soak the skin for a few hours
in cold water until quite soft, then scrape
the back to remove any flesh or fat. Rub
alum into the skin and soak for eight hours
in a liquor composed of 2oz. powdered alum,
loz. common salt, 1 gallon of water. After-
wards wash thoroughly, mix fresh liquor and
soak for another eight hours. It will be
necessary to press the scales down ; a house-
hold wringer or mangle will do. Roll from
the base of the scales to the tips. Stretch
out to dry in a cool place, using a tack
every three inches on each side.—“W.F.”
3528. —Sawdust from Iluon pine, when
submitted to steam distillation, yields oil
to the extent of five per cent, of its weight.
This oil contains 95 p.c. methyl eugenol,
which has some value as a mild antiseptic
and as a soap and perfume constituent
(more particularly the carnation variety of
perfumes). The exact commercial value of
the oil is not known, and the only mention
in technical publications appeared in 1926
in the shape of an appeal to interested indus-
tries to test the oil and comment on its
value and uses. We have reason to believe
that a market for the product exists in
Germany, but details as to uses and value
are very vague.—“S.l.R.”
3648.—A reliable waterproof dressing for
motor hoods, oilskin coats, leather bags, etc.,
is made by dissolving 4oz. shellac in 1 pint
methylated spirits and mixing with this burnt
sienna in oil to the consistency of a thin
paste. Apply with a soft rag. Two or
more coats may be required according to the
condition of the surface. Burnt sienna in
oil (or other colors) can be obtained ready
prepared from any oil and color store. —“B.”
3957. —To make prussic acid for purposes
of fumigation, mix in proportions of lib.
cyanide to acid. The acid should be
added all at once to the cyanide in a flat,
shallow dish. The, greatest care must be
observed that none of the gas is inhaled. It
is extremely poisonous. If it is intended to
fumigate only one room or a part of a house,
to be on the safe side there should be no-
body in the house. All doors and windows
should be closed, and paper pasted over any
cracks or crevices to prevent the gas from
escaping. The room or rooms to Le fumi-
gated should be left unopened for 48 hours
at the 'least, and before anybody enters at
the end of this period the doors should be
opened to air the place thoroughly. The
sulphuric acid and cyanide may both be pur-
chased at any chemical- warehouse. —
“Borom.”
4079. —The Victorian Fences Act (1915)
provides for equal contributions by adjoining
property-owners towards the cost of dividing
fences; but neither owner can insist on put-
ting up his own kind of fence. The kind
is a matter of agreement between you, or if
no agreement is come to you may serve the
neighbor with a summons to the Court of
Petty Sessions where the Court will settle
the matter. Give your neighbor notice of
your desire that he should contribute ; then
try to come to an amicable arrangement with
him.—“P.M.”
3911. —To remove ink from a wooden floor
and hearthstone, use a strong solution of
oxalic acid and water, applied with brush
or cloth tied to rag. Wash clean with plenty
of water. Remember that the acid is very
poisonous.—“Max.”
3958.—Afraid that you will find it impos-
sible to get a four-roomed brick cottage built
for £5OO, but it may be possible for you to
have one built for about £7OO. Consult the
Small House Plan Service Bureau of the
Institute of Architects of N.S.W., which was
established to supply plans of small houses
designed by well-known architects to those
who cannot afford to pay full architects’
fees. The price of a set (consisting of three
copies of plans and specification) is £5 5s
The Government Savings Bank (Advances
for Homes Department) is the best institu-
tion to approach for a loan. —“W.F.”
Does Anybody Know?
Which is the better swimmer, the horse
or the cow'?—4o62.
What preparation is used to gloss over
plaited raffia?—4oB4.
How to make unbleached calico water-
proof, to be used as a light tarpaulin? Also,
3. dressing tli&t will lsst for two yenrs with-
out cracking and perishing.—4o37.
How to destroy rats other than by trap-
ping or poisoning?—39s6.
A successful method of retarding the
ripening of bananas other than holding in
a cool store?—39o7. °
How to trap wmllabies?— 4046.
Brief Answers.
M.J.M.: (1) According to the N.R.M.A.,
Sydney, various people have from time to time
travelled partially around Australia, but no one has
covered the complete journey by motor-car. The
association cannot furnish records of time between
the cities mentioned. Nor does the R.A.C. of Aus-
tralia supply the information in its “Year Book.”
(2) Try A.C. of W.A., 228 Adelaide-terrace, Perth, for
details concerning the Broome-Darwin route. .. .R.M.:
Write to Will Andrade, 173 Pitt-street, Sydney....
J.C.lt.: The estimated population of Java and Madura
at Dec. 31, 1925, was 36,403,833 V.8.H.: Craw-
ford and Co., the importers, state that the exhaust
muffler would be suitable for a Singer car... .M.S.:
The question involves the searching of records at the
Commonwealth Patent Office, which is out of our
scope. Make a preliminary inquiry at the Patent
Office, 581 Bourke-street, Melbourne. ...S.J.: “Poultry
Farming in N.5.W.,” obtainable from Government
Printer, Phillip-street, Sydney (4s. 3d., posted). This
work is equally good for poultry breeders in any
State. . . . V.A.L. : Let us know the maximum amount
in amperes or milliamperes the coil is to take, as
upon this the sizes of wire and core section will
depend. .. .A. 8.: Cannot trace any graphologists in
the Sydney directories. One or two Sydney news-
papers feature articles upon the judging of character
by handwriting, but as the art is not an exact science
we do not care to make any recommendations....
H.M.: No medical treatment can cure your trouble.
Force yourself to recite and speak on all possible
occasions; tell yourself you can do it and the ability
will come... .C.8.M.K.: It depends entirely on the
strength of the particular fluid. Anyhow ship’s lime-
juice as an anti-scorbutic is somewhat out of date.
A couple of tablespoonsful a day would be a fair dose
of the average preparation... .G.M.: The reply
referred to King George’s first visit to Australia as
a midshipman aboard the Bacchante in 1880 when
his father, afterwards King Edward VII., was Prince
of Wales. When King George revisited Australia
in 1901 as Duke of York to open the Federal Parlia-
ment the title of Prince of Wales was in abeyance.
It was not until Nov., 1901, that the title passed to
him. .. .C.A.C.H.: The publishers inform us that they
have investigated the authenticity of “War Birds—
the Diary of an Unknown Aviator,” and believe that
it is a true story. .. . A.M.L.: (1) The death rate in
U.S.A. in 1917 was estimated at 14.2 per 1000
people in an area with 72.7 p.c. of the total popu-
lation, including that of Hawaii. In 1924 the
estimated rate was 11.8 per 1000 people in an area
with 88.5 p.c. of the total population, exclusive of
the Hawaiians. But they are rather careless about
vital statistics in the U.S.A. (2) The works
on the subject are plentiful, but the young
freelance will find experience his best guide, though
of course many helpful hints can be picked up.
Michael Joseph’s “Journalism for Profit” (65.) and
A. E. Bull’s “Writing for the Papers” (3s. 6d.) cover
the field fairly well and “The Australian and New
Zealand Writers’ and Artists’ Year Book” (2s. 6d.)
is a useful handbook that confines itself to local
conditions and markets. All procurable at leading
Sydney booksellers H.W.P. : Moreland Metal Co.,
Ltd., 3 Market-street, Sydney; John Danks and Co.,
Ltd., Buckland-street, Blackfriars, Sydney..... R.W.:
You will probably be able to secure “Bold Bendigo,”
by Paul Herring, from Robertson and Mullens, 107
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne... .C.E.J.: “The Cornish
Miner,” by A. K. Hamilton Jenkin, is not at present
stocked by Sydney booksellers. Angus and Robertson
or Dymocks could order it from Allen and Unwin
for you. . . ,E.K.: (1) McCulloch and'Futer’s “Wind-
ing Engines and Winding Appliances: Their Design
and Economical Working” (Price 265.). Obtainable
from Dymocks. (2) Answer to your previous question
appeared B. 28/3/’2B. . . .N.D.R. : In spite of present
high price, don’t know anything better from that
point of view than Queensland Insurance. Look also
into Australian General Insurance. .. .S.B.A. (M.L.):
No. It wouldn’t take much of a further fall to put
the South out of action... .Nelson: Sorry, haven’t
the necessary data....S. Cross: Quite safe there....
W.P. (Christchurch): Both in the second class; the
distillery co. well up in it. The brewery co. has lost
its punch... .C.A.L.: No; they don’t suit your
requirements at a11....T.8.: Very easy to get; not
so easy to get rid of. They have a tremendous
amount of leeway to make up, and we see no reason
why another concern should acquire them... .Black-
town: Will take a couple of weeks to get the informa-
tion. Wait.... Gladys T.: (1) There is an irregular
market for the shares. (2) Don’t think much of it.
(3) You must pay R.A.: Don’t care for it
E.G. (Q.) : Ordinary share money is all right, we
believe. The co. has not yet gone into liquidation.
....Robbo: (1) Depends upon how much risk you
are prepared to take. If you put safety first, no.
(2) Because the net balance of tangible assets is
only about 17s. per share, and a good many of
those assets are of doubtful value.... M.M.J.: (1)
They are sound. But nothing in that class is “per-
fectly” safe. (2) Don’t know it. The difficulty
might be to get out after you had got in... .T.E.C.:
Better come and consult The files... .D.S.: We do
not recommend a correspondence school for tho:e
subjects ; you could probably do as well by studying
the prescribed text-books yourself. Your best plan is io
sit for the Uni. matriculation exam, held in March
of each year. You could take any special subject at
a leaving certificate exam, without having completed
the five years’ course, but only if your studies had
followed the lines of the syllabus R.S.T.: Pome
ia the species of fruit to which the apple,
pear and quince belong... ,J.A.: Duty on an
English motor-cycle valued at £35 is £7.
Duty on engine only is 45 p.c. of value,
unless it is to be used for the manufacture
of a motor-cycle, in which case it is admitted free.
Particulars of duty on second-hand machines have
been posted... .J.K.: The fact that the contract was
entered into on a Sunday does not make it void.
.. . .F.J.M.L.: No; too many accidents may happen
between now and then C.C.: Make a paste of
thick boiled starch and poison with arsenic. (Keep
out of reach of children and animals.) There are
many effective liquid remedies that you may have on
application. .. .L.R.: (1) Genuine Stradivari violins
carry the makers’ labels; these vary considerably.
From 1700 the figure one was printed only, the last
three numbers being written in with a pen. (2) In
all probability your violin is one of the many trade
copies; the chance of its being a genuine Strad is
very remote. (3) A. E. Smith and Co., Ltd., 68
Hunter-street, Sydney, violin experts and dealers, may
be able to dispose of the old violin for y0u....
8.T.5.: No, don’t regard any of them as “sound
investments,” though several of them are attractive
gambles. .. .Elmhurst: Shouldn’t call it a safe in-
vestment. It may do well; but that has yet to be
proved. The safe investment is one which has done
well, with conditions still unchanged... .P.P.M.: Of
the three, we prefer Wunderlichs. .. .M.A.8.: All that
group are in a strong position, with prospects good,
and the Q.N. as good as any.. . .Newton C.: A tough
question ; but, on the whole, should prefer the smaller
one, so long as we were handy. That sort of enter-
prise has to be pretty closely watched.... (Many
others mailed.)


Measure value
by the New
The New Chrysler “52”
owner best knows the ut-
most in motor car value
—judged by performance ,
comfort and luxury .
For he has daily experience
of its smooth, unfailing speed
and typical Chrysler accel-
eration and low fuel con-
sumption.
He rides in substantial wood
and steel bodies of full size
for adult passengers, on
saddle spring seat cushions.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place. Wellington.
&
His Chrysler “52” has richer
fittings and equipment, up*
holstery of finer texture and
colour harmonies so much
more striking.
Let the New Chrysler “52”
be your measure of value in
this price field. Inspect care-
fully its body features. Then
test its performance by
actual riding and driving.
You, too, will then choose
the New Chrysler “52.”


sdf
LIFE ASSURANCE IS A
DUTY THAT CANNOT WAIT
Most men intend to protect their dependents with Life
Assurance, but many delay until too late, or at best, until
their premiums have become needlessly high. If you too,
are in their position, accept this duty now and act upon it.
There is a P. SC C. policy to meet your case —a policy
that gives you the benefits of co-operative assurance and
one that provides absolute security.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Gen. Man.: H. Fell
PRODUCERS V CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD
114--120 CASTLE RE AG H ST. SYDNEY n£|
The only place in the world that
makes Cognac Brandy is the
Cognac district of France.
M artell’s comes from Cognac only,
Martell’s for Age and Quality.
MARTELLS
BRANDY
If***
RANGE C
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE COMING WHEAT CROP.
“Ploughboy”: Usually, after such a poor
year for wheat as 11)27 proved itself in three
States —Westralia, of course, is the exception
—an abundant crop follows. The question
many wheat-growers ase asking themselves
is: What is the proper treatment for land
on which last season the crop was a total or
partial failure?
In the light of experience of similar con-
ditions in other years I would say that in
case of total failure last year the land should
be regarded as fallow for the present sea-
son. No opportunity should be lost, when
rains provide moisture, of giving the land a
shallow working with a scarifier or other
cultivator. Where crops were a partial
failure the land should be worked up as a
short fallow.
As to fertiliser, in case of partial failure
of last season’s crop the phosphate will be
practically all eaten up, and a full dressing
must be given this season. If the crop was
a total failure most of the phosphate remains
in the soil, but it won’t become soluble
till the next crop is well enough advanced
to supply moisture through its roots. In
cases where light dressings—56 to 701b. to
the acre—were given last year there should
be no diminution this year, but if last year’s
dressing was heavy—1001b. or over—it can
be safely reduced to 56 to 701b. this year.
The same rule applies where the wheat ger-
minated but later was eaten off by stock.
As to varieties, Waratah, probably the
most popular in N.S.W. and winner of many
crop competitions, is reliable, but must not
be sown too early. For early sowing, in
N.S.W. at any rate, Yandilla King is one
of the best. Canberra, Turvey, Gresley,
Florence, Marshall’s No. 3, Aussie, Union,
Federation and Nizam have all given good
results in past years. Local conditions should
govern choice. The N.S.W. Agricultural
Department’s leaflet No. 875 gives a com-
plete list of N.S.W. localities and the most
suitable varieties for them. Nabawa, valu-
able for its resistance to flag smut, is still
under trial in N.S.W. and W.A. The yield
is rather on the low side compared with
most others mentioned.
OAT-SOWING HINTS.
“Tata”: Choose seed that is plump and
clean and runs freely through the drill.
It must . be well threshed. You can grade
it yourself, using a blower that will separate
heavy seed from light. Feed the light seed to,
your stock and sow the remainder.
In warm districts it is advisable to get
seed from a cooler district; growth will be
more vigorous and stalks taller. But unless
you cap rely on the source of supply it is
safer to grow and select your own seed.
Any Government farm will supply a small
quantity of pure seed to give you a start.
Though oats are a hardy crop, and can be
grown on unfallowed soil, it pays to plough
deep—deeper even, than for wheat —with
good cultivation.
The amount of seed used should be ad-
justed with reference to the variety chosen,
climate, time of sowing and soil. As a
general rule the later the sowing the heavier
the quantity of seed. Sow more thickly for
grain than for hay. As a guide, to suit aver-
age N.S.W. conditions, Algerians should be
sown 301b. to the acre early in the season,
and 401b. at mid-season ; Guyra and Lachlan,
401b. early, 501b. mid-season, and 601b. late.
Algerian is not suitable for late sowing.
Mulga and Sunrise, when sown early for
feeding off, should he put in at 401b. to 501b.
to the acre ; 501b. to 601b. at mid-season and
601b. to 80lb. if late sown.
Pickling is not usually necessary, but late
varieties, such as white Tartarian, should
bt pickled for smut for five minutes in a
solution of one part formalin to 400 parts
water.
Superphosphate is the standard manure
for oats in N.S.W. Special oats fertilisers
have not fufilled expectations.
CONSERVE THE MAIZE SURPLUS.
“W.P.D.”: The Queensland maize crop
this season is estimated to exceed 6,000,000
bushels, and the total Commonwealth yield
is likely to be over 12,000,000 bushels, or
about 4,000,000 bushels in excess of normal
Australian requirements. The cost of pro-
duction in Queensland is not less than 3s.
per bushel, . and prices for prime grain
average 2s. 9d., but values will recede as
heavy supplies are marketed. The average
maize-grower cannot afford to hold and has
no facilities for storing, lie has to accept
whatever the speculative buyer offers. Pre-
sent prospects in western Queensland indi-
cate that maize will be wanted later this
year for keeping sheep alive. In 1925
graziers paid to 10s. per bushel for maize
owing to the Queensland surplus having
been exported. To save the maize-growers
and the graziers from disaster some organisa-
tion is urgently necessary. Advances to the
growers (preferably in groups) to construct
silos so that they may hold their crops or
arrangements to purchase the crops at not
less than 4s. per bushel would save
the situation. The U.S.A. produces
8,000,000,000 bushels of maize per annum,
and uses 90 per cent, of the crop for stock
feeding. Australians have not begun to
realise the value of maize for sheep feed,
fattening pigs and other commercial uses.
SOIL rOOR IN VEGETABLE MATTER.
“Cwrw Bach”: “Ascot’s” mixture of fer-
tiliser (B. 14/8/’2B) is open to two objec-
tions. In the first place no amount of fer-
tiliser applied to “land poor in vegetable mat-
ter” can take the place of humus. Indeed,
in very many cases most of the fertiliser
would be wasted until a certain amount of
humus is supplied by either animal or green
manure. Secondly, it is a cardinal point in
fertilising to fertilise for the crop and not
for the land, so the fertiliser should vary
according to the crop sown. “Ascot’s” advice
for “land poor in vegetable matter” should
have been: Sow a leguminous crop after
treating with lime (if practicable), fertilis-
ing with superphosphate and perhaps potash.
Plough in the haulms after harvesting
(unless the crop has been ploughed under as
green manure), and then fertilise for the
next crop with a suitable general fertiliser.
Land should be limed, of course, at least
three weeks before sowing or fertilising.
MARKETS FOR BEEF.
“4X” : Granville Ryrie, who ought to know
something about the subject, has been telling
the members of the Royal Colonial Institute
in London that the annual beef production
of Australia is about 1,000,0001 b., and that
Australians eat 88 per cent, of that them-
selves, exporting the rest. Australians eat
1571 b. of beef per head -every year, as com-
pared with 701 b. in the U.S.A. and 601 b. in
the United Kingdom. But since Ryrie made
his statement Queensland, Australia’s great-
est be-ef producer, has suffered a disastrous
drought, and it is more than likely that the
exportable surplus has disappeared. When
the northern herds have been built up again
the problem of getting rid of the surplus will
crop up once more, as was the case in 1922,
when beef was practically not worth the
trouble of exporting, and a bounty had to be
granted by the Federal Government. Grow-
ing cattle by the million is not much good if
you can’t sell them, and what this country
needs more than anything else is new
markets. Britain and Europe are largely
closed to Australia by reason of competition
from countries nearer to those markets. Our
best chance lies to the north-west, where the
brown and the yellow man are learning to eat
beef in increasing quantities, and in China,
and other countries where the religious ques-
tion does not intrude, there ought to be an
outlet for surplus stocks.
IODINE FOR LIVESTOCK.
“Agra” : lodine is absent from the general
run of feedstuffs, and it must be added to
the ration if stock are not to suffer. It
has a stimulative effect upon the secretions
of the thyroid gland, an organ of extreme
importance to bodily welfare. A lack of
iodine may not make itself felt for genera-
tions, but eventually the deficiency will mani-
fest itself in the offspring.
Symptoms of a lack of iodine are, in
human beings, goitre; in calves, big-neck;
in pigs, hairlessness; and in chickens, lack
of feathers.
The stock-breeder, for biological reasons
that need not be gone into here, should
give small doses of iodine each day to preg-
nant animals; and occasionally to young
and growing stock. It is best administered
if the form of potassium iodide. Two grains
of pot. iodide is the dose for a mare, a cow
or a pig, or for 50 hens.
If one ounce of pot. iodide is dissolved
in one gallon of water, one tablespoonful of
this solution will contain two grains of pot.
iodide. This quantity added daily to the
food or drinking water of each pregnant
animal will ensure the birth of normal young,
and will also be of great benefit to the
general health of the mother.
LAMBS FOR EXPORT.
“A..T.8.”: Despite “W.P.D.” and
“B-Gar,” Vic. butchers don’t buy Dorset
Horn lambs “because of their flavor and ten-
derness.” Butchers buy lambs according to
trade requirements. Industrial localities
favor the joint that shows the maximum of
flesh, with the minimum of fat and bone.
Aristocratic districts prefer the lamb with
a nice covering of fat—it has a more pleas-
ing appearance. If any breed is likely to
possess those desirable qualities it is the
Southdown, by reason of the shorter fibre and
closer grain of the meat. The experiments
mentioned by one of your correspondents
were carried out years ago—before the war
I think. The lambs were sold locally, and
the prices of the skin and carcase were
included, to add to the apparent value of the
Dorset Horn. And furthermore the tests
were conducted by wool men. Needless
to state, lambs are sold in the home mar-
kets on their carcase value, in which con-
formation, color and weight are the prin-
cipal factors. The fault of the D.H., as
with all breeds excepting Southdown and
Shropshire, is that the hind legs are long
and comparatively thin with little fatty
covering. When frozen they show up black,
which detracts somewhat from the value of
the carcase. In this respect the Southdown
and Shropshire have a decided advantage.
The legs are short, well filled, especially in
the groin, and when frozen show up well
by reason of the fair percentage of fat
covering the leg. Another slight feature in
their favor is the very small neck —the most
wasteful portion of the carcase. The fecun-
dity of the D. 11., praised by your corres-
pondents, must have been noted under very
favorable conditions, for on the last test, in
S.A., the D.H. was in the region of 95 per
cent., with the Southdown a point or two
less. In a Maoriland test the Southdown
led all the others. On account of its unde-
sirable qualities in an export connection the
merino has a poor value as a mother. First-
cross ewes, or, better still, second-cross, are
to be preferred.
REARING THE CALF.
“Poddy”: Here are eight sound rules on
calf-rearing:—
1. Always handle calves quietly and
patiently, and so develop in the animals a
sense of confidence in the human foster-
parent, which will remain till the animals
reach maturity.
2. Feed at regular times each day.
8. Always give a regular quantity of milk.
4. Feed only perfectly clean, sweet milk.
5. Feed the milk at body temperature
(about 100 deg. Fah.).
6. Always cleanse feeding buckets as
rigidly as you would all other dairy utensils.
All the above points have a big bearing on
the calf’s digestive system, and will eliminate
the common causes of calf scours.
7. Provide shade in summer and shelter
from winter wind and rain, because it is
cheaper to conserve animal heat and energy
by these means than by the use of larger
amounts of food.
8. Always make a point of picking up
pieces of rag, paper, twine, etc., if found
about the calf paddock. Young calves exhibit a
mischievous delight in picking up foreign sub-
stances of this description and ultimately
swallowing them. Indigestible material of
this nature, when eaten by young calves, is
almost certain to set up a serious form of
gastro-enteritis.
A SOUTH AFRICAN WOOL-GROWER’S
LETTER.
“Warian” (Middelburg, Cape Colony) :
Judging by some pars, in “The Man on the
Land” section, there seems to be a feeling
that Africa is forging ahead of Australia as
far as fine wools are concerned. This is an
illusion.
The writer, who has been in the wool-
growing business all his life, has just com-
pleted a trip through all the best and the
worst wool-growing districts of the Union,
and can safely say that the best of the
S’African wools are a long way behind the best
of Australian wools ; further, it is a climatic
impossibility for S’African growers to pro-
duce anything within coo-ee of the Western
District of Victoria or New England wools.
In fact the qualities grown in s.-w. West-
ralia, s.-e. South Australia and southern
N. S. Wales (Yass, etc.) will beat the.best
grown in this country out of sight.
A published Australian statement that
“plenty” of 70’s and even 80’s are grown
in South Africa is worthless. Much of the
70’s is not really fine wool at all, but is
thin wool, the thinness caused by the hard
winters and want of proper feed. Any
condition (fat) the sheep put on in the
summer months (the rainy season) is
absorbed by them in the winter months
to generate heat, and as a result the wool
suffers; even if it is sound it is thin in
fibre, and the wool grown in the summer
months shrinks in sympathy. Thp quantity
of 70’s is exceedingly small.
Most of the farms in the sheep districts
have been inherited, and the present owners,
as long as they get an income that will
cover their expenditure and leave a bit in
hand, are quite satisfied, although if they
worked out the interest that their income
shows on capital value more than half of
them would not be getting 4 p.c.
Then, again, the bulk of the sheep that
cut a 70’s quality wool will not give 01b. all
in, and the yields do not come up to 45 p.c.
as a general rule. If they cut over 61b.,
then the clean yield is well below 40 p.c..
and as the highest price this year was
29fd., readers will readily gauge the yield.
That a fair quantity of fine wool is grown
is beyond doubt, and that from the Karroo is
very attractive by its brightness, due to
tiie rich lime, magnesia and sulphur contents
of the soil, to say nothing of the splendid
herbage and lucerne; but this output is
limited, owing to the very mountainous
nature of the country. There are also some
good fine wools grown in the coastal belt
to the s.-w. of the Cape Province; but here
again the area is limited. In the n.-e. of the
Transvaal some fine wools that will run to
70’s and yield up to 46 or 47 p.c. are also
to be found. But giving all this in, S’Africa
has a long way to go to get anywhere near
the fine wools of Australia. We grow plenty
equal to West of Darling, parts of River-
ina and Central Queensland, and lots of
rough stuff like the hard South Australian
wools. As in Australia, our medium wools
give the biggest return per head, and growers
are not going to be “kidded” any more than
in Australia to grow unpayable qualities.
It looks very much as if the Bradford and
Continental enthusiasts for fine wool were
trying to put the wind up Australians
by playing South Africa off against them.
In closing, some of the worst sheep I have
ever seen anywhere were imported last year
from Australia. They were a disgrace to the
breeders, and reflected on the country that
exported them.
WOOL YIELDS.
“Jumbuck”: The lighter the condition
of the wool the greater the yield of clean
scoured wool. All yolk and other matter
must be taken out of the wool before it is
made into tops ready for manufacture
Ordinary local scoured wool is not scoured
bone dry. A certain amount of yolk is left
in it and taken out by the top makers. A
buyer in valuing first of all finds wool of
the quality he requires, and then estimates
what the clean yield of the wool will be.
The price he can pay is based on the per-
centage of clean wool and the value of
Bradford tops that can be made from it.
For a wool that will yield 50 per cent, of
clean scoured tops an offer will be made
based on half the ruling quote for the quality
of tops the wool will make.
SHEEP-DROVING HINTS.
“Drover”: Make sure of getting all the
information possible about the track ahead,
especially regarding feed, water and poison
bush.
Always give the required notice to holdings
through whch you are about to pass; it may
save a summons.
Always carry a break, either a hessian or a
rope one, and do not depend on bough and
bush breaks already erected oil the route for
camping the sheep at night. They may not
exist; if they do, they may not be any good.
Get the sheep out early in the morning to
feed, and your day’s stage should have been
decided from observations taken of the route
the day previous.
Let the sheep spread as much as possible,
and take care the tail of the mob is not
bustled. There’s always a tail, so keep the
stronger leaders in check.
Count the mob regularly; a small wing
will often get cut off in scrubby country.
It’s not much use trying to find lost sheep
that were dropped over a week ago.
Avoid low-lying camps if there’s rain
about; and in the event of rain keep to the
high ground as much as possible. Nothing
knocks the condition of sheep back more
than plodding through heavy, boggy country.
Water whenever possible, and make sure
the mob all get a good drink; split the mob
if necessary.
Remember the horses; it is on them you
rely to deliver your sheep.
WOOL-PACKING DODGES.
“8.G.”: In spite of many complaints by
brokers and buyers a fair amount of wool is
still falsely packed. The old dodge of putting
stones or bricks in to increase the weight
has certainly died out, but secreting in-
ferior fleeces in the centre of the bales is
still practised, and is done in such a manner
that only by cutting the pack right up and
pulling out most of the wool can the inferior
wool be located. Bellies, locks and stained
pieces are also hidden in the centre.
Farmers’ unpressed clips are viewed with
suspicion, and, although the classing and
baling may have been done in a legitimate
(Continued on yayc 81.)


4
1
W/i
JZZV??'
ar
: >mv£yj
Mg A
m
<7
i§
SSSS=
_r^s
, i
LOOK INTO, AS WELL AS AT, THE IMPROVED ’FIVE-THREE’
When comparing any other players with the Improved'Five-Three’ insist
on seeing them dismantled. It’s the only way to compare finish for finish
There are two separate units in a
player-piano—the piano itself and
the player action. And in each of them
the real value lies in the internal struc-
ture. The only sure way to judge an
instrument is to see the inside. In our
showrooms you will
find one of our Im-
proved 'Five-Three’
Players dismantled.
Every detail of design,
material, workman-
ship, and finish is there
for you to examine.
When comparing
other instruments with
the 'Five-Three,’ insist
on seeing them also
dismantled. Refuse to
buy where you are not
granted this opportunity. After all, you
are the most concerned in the purchase,
you are the best judge as to what you
are buying. To choose an instrument
on outward appearances only is buying
in the dark. You owe it to yourself,
to your purse, to your home, to insist
on facilities for inspection equal to
those afforded you in regard to the
'Five-Three.’ Among other features of
the improved model is the indestructible
lacquer finish, not the old time French
polish. It is guaranteed
not to crack, check, g°
white, sink into ihe
wood or grow dull.
When visiting our
showroom, ask to see
the hot-water test. It
is the most amazing
proof of confidence.
The case-work is wal-
nut veneer, laid verti-
cally. Top and bottom
doors, new flush type.
The player action con-
tains every proved device for perfect
expression, and the tonal richness of
the Improved 'Five-Three’ equals that
of a concert piano of highest quality.
Full descriptive matter sent post
free anywhere. Terms, easiest possible.
In comparing other
instruments with the
Improved 'Five-Three’
only compare instru-
ments in the highest-
priced class . The 'Five-
Three’ was designed to
compete with this class
and this only, notwith-
standing the low price
for which it is sold.
The
Improved ‘Five-Three’
Player at the old price:
£ 205
shows a saving of any-
thing up to £7O.
The Beale is also available in
combination with the Ampico
—the world’s most wonderful
reproducing medium. Ask to
hear the superb Beale-Ampico.
BEALE & COMPANY
Showrooms.
340 George Street, Sydney
LIMITED
Head Office and Factories *
41-47 Trafalgar St., Annandale
Branches —New South Wales: Newcastle, Wollongong, Lismore, Bathurst, Tamworth, and Maples at Wagga and Albury.
Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne suburbs. Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia:
Saverv’:; Pianos, Limited, Adelaide. Western Australia: Thomson’s, Limited. Queensland: G. J. Grice, Limited, Bris-
bane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
15.F.p.28,


nr*
uua
The present day models are
the best speed trucks Inter-
national Harvester has ever
built, and when we say that
we are fully cognisant of
the unusual record Inter-
nationals have established
in the past.
Ask Local Agent for details .
Adelong. . . . Roche Bros.
Armidale ... S. H. Pleace
Ariah Park. . Davey & Rich
Bingara Fader & Co.
Barmedman. A. W. Naylor
Bega E. W. Whalan
Blayney. . . . J. Bembrick
Brewarrina . . J. Neale
Bellingen. . . J. C. Marks
Barraba Dean & Smith
Bathurst. . . . Aubin Bros.
Cumnock. . . D. T. Heinke
Coolamon . . .Fairlie & Dean
Crookwell. . .Baxter Bros.
Cowra Reid Smith, Ltd.
Cootamundra S. H. Dickson
Cooma . . . . . H. P. Faulkner
Casino Sloman & Walke:
Coff’sHarbor A. D. Mackay
Dubbo S. J. Fitzell
Dungog. . . . Davey & Olsen
Forbes. ...» L. J. Johnson
Gunnedah. . .Oliver Bros.
Gilgandra. . . J. H. Hitchen
Griffith C. W. O’Donnell
Grenfell. .. . F. M. Drury
Grafton R. H. Apps
Ganmain .... Logan & Hitchens
Gunning O. L. Smith
Garah Halsted & O’Neill
Goulburn J. T. Blake
Gloucester. . . .Street & Parish
Junee Williams & Armstrong
Kempsey Barrell & Conn
Kyogle G. S. Mackrell
Kiama E. S. Glenn
Lismore. .... .Sloman & Walker
Leeton Allan & Wright
Lithgow Jones Bros.
Maitland J. Pryke
Macksville. . . A. Morrison
Manildra B. M. Allen
Molong E. J. Wren
Moss Vale. . . . P. C. Bourne
Muswellbrook . E. E. Hazell
Manilla Ken Woods
Nowra G. Harrison
Narromine. . . .Allan F. Jones & Co.
Narrandera . . . Wise Bros., Ltd.
Narrabri Smith & Stork
Oberon H. A. Cunynghame
Orange Campbell & Evans
sdf
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
JACKSON THOMSON LIMITED
5-11 Pyrmont Bridge Road,
CAMPERDOWN,
L 5051.
5 Lines.
dsf
MOTOR
wr
TRUCKS
Tenders.
'"TENDERS are invited for a five years'
lease with option of purchase, alterna-
tively without option of purchase, of the
well-known Kuranda Hotel, situated a Kur-
anda near the Barron Falls, in the Cairns
district of North Queensland, the popular
rendezvous of Tourists from the South
during the Winter Season.
Tenderers are required to state prices re-
spectively for the purchase of (11 Furniture
and Fittings as per Inventory, (2) Goodwill,
(3) the Weekly Rental. The Electric Eight
and Pumping Plant are to be included as
part of the property to be leased.
Tenderers must accompany their tenders
with a cheque for the sum of £5O, which
will he returned in the event of any tender
not being accepted. The highest or any
tender not necessarily accepted.
Tenders close April 30, 102 S, at the office
o r the Kuranda Hotel, Ltd., 127 Eagle Street.
Brisbane, and envelopes require to be marked
“Tenders Kuranda Hotel.”
Particulars of Lease, Inventory, etc., may
be obtained at the Offices of Howard Smith
Ltd., Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., and Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Australia’s
OLYMPIA
THE GREATEST
MOTOR SHOW
NEXT TO
LONDON’S
OLYMPIA
OPENS
MAY 3rd
EXHIBITION
BUILDINGS
MELBOURNE
Under the Auspices of
THE CHAMBER OF
AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRIES
H. W. HARRISON
Organiser & Sec.
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKE
ACTUAL 51 zt
The cigar foi
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6 d.each
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
’ost |).*i id to anj
address.
Sampler liox,
containing' two
cigars, 1/- post
free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
5548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors ft.-
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.


m
PCS
Off..
Exact-fitting
evening shoes
Abbey-made, of a special grade
of patent leather, with tough, but
lightweight, welted soles. Flexible
and easy to wear. Smart, low-cut
sides, arched lacing and non-chafing
heels.
You have the choice of three fit-
tings narrow, medium and wide
for every full or half size. Impos-
sible to get a closer fit in a ready-
made shoe.
PATENT LEATHER (welted sole),
50/-
Pump Soles
The lightest men’s shoes made
supple and restful to the feet after
heavier footwear ideal for danc-
ing.
Designed on similar lines to the
shoe illustrated, but with lower
heels and thinner soles.
PATENT LEATHER (pump sole),
28/6
Order by post : Specify
width needed and also ask for a
supply of the correct Abbey Polish
(6d. per tin).
Write, call or ’phone if you have not
received a copy of the 40-page catalogue
in color.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
TC7 SYDNEY
Public Notice.
ROCKHAMPTON SCHOOL
OF ARTS.
Rockhampton, Central Queensland.
"THEATRE available for race and show
1 dates, Friday, 22nd, to Saturday, the
30th June, 1928. Races, four days; prize
money about £4OOO. Show, four days; piuze
money about £3,500. Seating accommodation
about 1050. Stage, 48 feet by 36 feet. Pros-
cenium, 21 feet wide by 17 feet. Electric light
throughout; permanent fire-proof room for
pictures (no machine). Committee pre-
pared to consider offers for season on a per-
centage basis. Any further information
supplied by
W. K. CLEEVE, Secretary.
m\i!3
O-
A
It"
r
Cuticura Helps to Retain
The Freshness of Youth
How lovely the natural skin,
kept clear, fresh and healthy
by daily use of Cuticura Soap
assisted, now and then, by
touches of the Ointment to
soothe and heal the first signs
of redness or irritation.
Soap la.,Talcum 15.3 d.. Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “ R. Towns & Co.,Sydney.N.S.W.”
518358?“ Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
GS.EY
hamj
WOULD)
1 SPOIL
IT
\
\\°
\efi-
<\'V e
\N*
\> e
\\ey
■sji\ >
w-
QtO
¥>>'V
»JU»
f| r*- WAINUT
fFP 11, STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Peck’s
For a quick and tasty lunch let
Anchovette help you. Its delicious
flavour appeals to everybody. Serve it
in sandwiches or on hot buttered toast.
Get a jar from your grocer to-day.
delicious Fish Paste
— <
m k
ISOS.
.• iiV
&
The exact time
for life.
manner, the owners miss a lot of competi-
tion because these small clips seem the most
likely to be falsely packed. Some wool-
growers through ignorance roll their bellies
and skirts in the middle of the fleeces, and
then wonder why their wool is passed in at
auction.
No buyer will bid for wool if there is the
slightest suspicion of packing dodges, and
brokers should take it into their own hands
and have any wool re-classed that may to
their minds be not up to the fair thing.
Better to do this than have it rejected on the
show floor.
the saddle and sore backs.
“Flaps”: Bullock-shouldered horses, with
low, thick withers —which generally means
bad action —are more prone to bad backs
than are horses of good conformation, You
should have no trouble in preventing sore
backs and in most cases can cure them.
Keep the back and saddlecloth clean and
have your saddle counterlined occasionally,
Then everything depends upon the way in
which the pressure is distributed over the
buck. .
The pressure should not be evenly distri-
buted over that portion of the horse’s back
covered by the saddle. Have practically no
pressure at the back of the saddle; and it
should increase gradually from this point
forward, if you can’t get your hand under
the back of the saddle without difficulty
when the horse is wheeling or jogging, you
have too much pressure there. To remedy
this use a horsehair-pad under the back of
the saddle for a time. This will cause tin;
hair in the lining to work back, and after
a time allow the saddle to sit correctly. In
a newly-lined saddle this will happen in a
couple of days’ riding. You can then dis-
pense with the pad. Almost invariably a
sore back occurs on that portion of the back
covered by the rear half of the saddle. Have
the most pressure forward; then, provided
you don’t do a lot of fast work in hot
weather, there should be no difficulty in
keeping the back sound.
ON HORSE BREEDING.
“B-Gar”: The Indian market that for a
number of years took our best “walers” now
only takes a small number, but the prices
paid for that few are good and average be-
tween £4O and £SO per head. The horses
must reach a certain standard and must be
without blemish. It is just, as easy to breed
horses that will suit the Indian market as
to breed nondescript sorts that are value-
less except as pig feed. For the founda-
tion of the stud, mares from 15 to 16 hands
high that show quality and breeding approach-
ing the thoroughbred type must be used, and
these should be mated to a thoroughbred
entire. No mare or sire showing any signs
of the draught cross should be used. The
demand for draughts nowadays is limited,
as it is also for polo ponies and delivery
sorts. The demand for stock horses is very
slack, and many stations do not breed at
all, finding it cheaper to buy broken colts.
For ail horse-breeding purposes the mare
is 75 per cent, of the foundation, and it is
futile to put a good horse to any sort of a
mare and expect good results. The. effect
of the introduction of the draught strain into
light horses has been to greatly reduce the
number of fine flat-boned horses that once
were common on out-back stations.
SOME INCUBATOR HINTS.
“Chooky”: Set your incubator perfectly
level. If the floor is not level the machine
cannot do itself justice. Test with a spirit
level. See that the legs are quite firm,
and that the machine does not move at all,
being perfectly rigid. Set on an earthen or
cement floor for preference; with wooden
floors there is always a certain amount of
vibration. Always have two thermometers so
as to test any variation or defect in the
heating system. Before the hatching season
test all thermometers in a bowl of warm
water, discarding any that are at all doubt-
ful. Better still, get a chemist to test
them against a certified thermometer. Before
putting in the eggs run the machine for at
least two days to get your regulation perfect.
BREEDING FOR LARGE EGGS.
“Minto”: “H.J.M.” (B. 21/3/’27) under-
states the value of large eggs. Large eggs
are always worth more than Id. a dozen
more than the smaller varieties. The mar-
gin is generally 2d. to 3d. per doz.; some-
times more. At time of writing Sydney
wholesale prices are: Hen 2s. Bd., medium
2s. 2d., pullet Is. 10d. per doz., but so wide
a margin is not usual. Egg grading is prac-
tically compulsory nowadays, and the stan-
dard weights are generally : Hen eggs, 240 z.
to the doz., no egg less than l|oz.; medium,
14 to ljoz.; and pullets, 1| to lfoz. But it
is not always the best policy to discard the
small layer if she is a good producer. Rather
mate her to a male bird from a hen that
lays large eggs, thereby retaining the pro-
ductivity and increasing the egg size. It
is not always the hen that lays the big egg
that is the best layer for numbers, and the
aim of the breeder must be quality and quan-
tity combined.
Further, the non-broody hen in heavy
breeds is not sure to be a good producer.
Laying competitions have settled this point.
She is often most indifferent—sometimes bar-
ren —and the moderately broody hen gen-
erally puts up the biggest score. The best
way to increase egg size is to see that no
egg goes into the incubator under 2oz. in
w T eight—-and eventually the result will be
noticed in the laying. But don’t overdo it
and put all the abnormally sized eggs in the
incubator. They are generally infertile, and
the too-large egg is a curse to farmers, as
It generally gets cracked in the fillers when
being marketed.
Another point in egg size is the maturity
of the pullets. The pullet must be roomy,
fully developed and in good condition to
make a good layer for size and productivity.
The small, undersized hen cannot be ex-
pected to lay big eggs.
SOME ROOSTER HINTS.
“Chooky” : Roosters running with the hens
in the autumn often keep them laying for
a longer period, and, the weather being cool,
there is no danger of marketing fertilised
eggs. The presence of a cock bird in the
pen where the young males for future breed-
ing are kept tends to keep order and pre-
vent fighting. When pullets are shifted to
their laying quarters, which should always
be in the evening, the presence of a male
bird, preferably a cock that has done duty
in the previous season, will help to make
the youngsters settle down, and they will
be less likely to wander up and down the
fences trying to get out again. If they are
just coming on to lay he will coax them into
the nesting portion of the house, and prevent
them from laying all over the place. The
male can be withdrawn when the yard
settles down to its new quarters.
Broodies that will even sit on the bare
ground, and are not required for hatching,
are best treated to a few days in a pen where
there are a few vigorous cockerels. This
treatment generally cures them in a short
period. Cock birds that are required for
breeding again in the spring are all the
better for a spell on free range, away from
the hens. They will moult easier and re-
gain vigor more quickly than if kept penned
up. Young cockerels should now be brought
in from free range and be given a little extra
attention in smaller pens, which serves the
double purpose of getting them used to
smaller quarters and ensures them being
mature and in good condition when placed
witli the breeding hens. Cock birds that show
long spurs are all the better for a trimming
down before being mated. All rejects should
be marketed without delay while prices are
good.
THE FRUIT-TREE PLANTERS’
commandments.
“11. J.”: With fruit-tree planting just
ahead, here arc the growers’ command
merits :
1. —Do not allow trees to remain long in
the sun when shifting from the nursery to
the orchard.
2. -In heavy soils throw a few stones in
the hole before planting to assist drainage.
3. —Do not put manure in the holes at
planting-time.
4. —Remove with sharp seccateurs broken
roots and trim back any thick roots which
are over a foot long,
5. Spread the roots out carefully before
filling in the holes with earth.
6. —Place the tree upright in position
while firming the soil—to attempt to
straighten it afterwards often injures the
bark and retards the tree.
7. —ln light soils plant deep; in heavy
or wet soils, shallow.
8. —Shorten back limbs at planting-time
to about four buds; less if the trees are not
very robust.
9. Tie the trees firmly to stakes.
10. —When the trees are planted spray
with a weak solution of lime and sulphur
to get rid of pests.
LAND HINTS.
“Bill R.”: When a barbed-wire gash bl-
otter wound on a horse refuses to heal,
wash clean with a solution of bluestone in
water and dry up the sore with the ash of
burnt willow. After a few treatments,
when there is no further appearance of
proud flesh, leave off the Milestone wash,
but persevere with the ash until anew skin
has grown over the patch.
“8.G.” : Greenhide will take the place of
dangling corks for keeping flies off the
face. Punch small round pieces from a dry
hide, and suspend them from pieces of
string attached all round the hat. As one
wearer remarked. “Them flies knows there’s
been arsenic on the hide, so they keeps
away.”
“B-Gar” : When about to drench lambs for
worms, try the mixture on a few and keep
them in the yard for the night to see if the
arsbnic mixture is not too strong. If there
are no ill effects carry on with the remainder,
but should any of the first trial lot suffer
lessen and weaken the dose.
“Nat Y.” : A good tonic for poultry during
the moulting months—March, April and May
—can be made by dissolving 4oz. of sulphate
of iron and four packets of Epsom salts in
warm water. Add sufficient cold water to
bring the total to one gallon. Then add loz.
of diluted sulphuric acid. On two days a
week add to the drinking water for each 12
hens half a cup of the mixture.
“Pullet”: When fowls are troubled with
worms in the eyes, causing blindness, dip a
feather in a solution of iodine and poke it
up the nostril to the corner of the eye. This
will make the worm drop out. For gapes,
twist two short pieces of strong horsehair
together, and twist them down the fowl’s
gullet. Keep twisting gently until, on with-
drawing, the worm is entwined in the snare.
“Chooky” : The best nesting material for
fowls is clean sand or small shell grit.
There is less likelihood of vermin and the
hens will not scratch it out like straw or
grass. Eggs are not liable to crack, and any
droppings can be easily removed, keeping the
nest fresh.
“Bufforp”: During moulting time fowls
require a certain percentage of oil to help
them in the shedding of the old feathers. The
new plumage comes quicker, and is in better
condition, for the addition of such foods as
linseed meal or Sunlight oil cake. A little
added to the morning mash is all that is
needed, but do not give too much, as this
will often turn the hens off the feed, and
check the layers in the flock.
“Oitnelis”: A good use for horse-shoes
is for pegging down wire-netting in between
the posts. They hold down both netting
and wire better than pegs.
“Fred Rich” : When horses or cattle have
died on sparsely-timbered country it is
possible to circumvent the blowfly by driving
four stakes into the ground, one at each
corner, reaching a foot or so above the top
of the beast. Run a piece of fencing-wire
round the top of the stakes and cover the
structure with a sheet of hessian or stout
bags sewn firmly together. Allow a margin
of four or five inches at the bottom to be
pegged down and covered all round with
earth to close up any possible exit for the
maggots. The millions of emerging flies will
soon die from lack of food and moisture, and
the covering may be again used for a similar
purpose. In the case of sheep, a light frame
of saplings covered by a couple of chaff-
bags cut open and sewn together can be used


dnother reason why you will like —
There are
twenty
reasons
in
every
packet
ARDATH
It
Coolness and absence of 1 bite.*
The large Oval shape gives
free drawing and cool smoKing
%
r
10
i
Joi
m
9 P
OVAL
VIRGINIA
SMOKE-OH!
A little earning is a dangerous thing.
* *
Absences make the heart grow fonder. So
do presents.
A PERFECT MATCH.
“Nice party—fast and furious, what?”
“Yes; guests fast and host furious.”
He who hesitates is lost. She who hesi-
tates is extinct.
There are a lot of women round about 29
who are entitled to the old-age pension.
The country would progress more if there
were not so many unemployed in jobs.
With women, after all has been said,
there is always something more to say.
“What does the actor do during liis long
rests?” asks the Sydney Sun. Shouldn’t that
first word be “whom”?
If red-haired girls are ardent girls,
As men claim who have tried them,
Then as my girl flaunts brick-red curls
I fear she must have dyed them.
N.s.w. Penn.
If any proof is needed that the practice
of honoring All Fools’ Day is dying out, it
is surely to be had in tire fact that Septem-
ber 1 has been fixed for the holding of the
N.S.W. prohibition referendum.
*»* v
Most men are fools: even if you warn
them a horse is a dead cert they’ll go and
back it.
♦ *
“What, Blinks? He’s not much of an
actor, is he?”
“Not much of an actor! Good heavens,
man, don’t you read the tooth-paste adver-
tisements?”
Dad (savagely) : “Look here, my boy,
there’s one thing I want to tell you—don’t
ask me another question!”
Son: “What are the other things, Dad?”
The modern girl gives plenty of lip.
Hinkler, the Sydney Guardian estimates,
will receive £7838 325. 2d. in Australia.
The tuppence, we learn, was not the gift of
a Scottish millionaire, but of an ardent
imperialist, who suggested it might console
the airman for not getting a press-inspired
knighthood.
The N.S.W. Commissioner of Police lias
asked the Government for 200 additional
men. A strong detachment of one of them,
we suppose, will be sent out to clean up the
razor gangs.
“In days gone by,” says a Sydney News
writer, “it was a common thing to find
string and even sacking in bread.” We our-
selves have noticed the same thing in days
gone by—to wit, yesterday and the day
before.
“Oh! Don’t! Stop doing that!” she cried,
As both his arms around her tightened.
To kiss her lips again he tried.
“Oh, don't! Stop doing that!” she cried.
He stopped. In accents clear and
frightened,
“Oh, don't slop doing that!” she cried —
And both his arms around her tightened.
“People who leave the land and go to
the cities,” argues the Sydney News, “are
machine-driven.” Yes, but in the cities there
are even more motor-cars, movies and wire-
less, so what’s gained by shifting there?
. “For export,” says a trade paper, “prac-
tically only first-grade is accepted.” For
import, Of course, that is about the only
grade that is excepted.
The trustees of
the Felton Bequest
assert that they
have two pieces of
Chinese crockery
over 200 years old.
Chinese maids
seem to have been
loafing on their
job.
Two people died
in Canada as a re-
sult of being bitten
by an infuriated
man. Presumably
he wanted to get
into the news-
papers and couldn’t
find a dog.
According to the
S. M. Herald, the
Port Adelaide
branch of the Sea-
men’s Union re-
cently ordered its
secretary to go to
Sydney. An order
which, no doubt, will provide Melbourne
humorists with an idea or two.
4= *
Flappers’ dictum: If thy left eyebrow
offends thee—pluck it out.
“Soc” : He came to my table from the hack
of the restaurant, waving his hands and
wildly excited. “Da fowl,” he raved, “da
fowl. Someone steala da fowl. I hava da
fowl only da sixa da weeks, and someone he
steala da fowl.” “What was it.” I asked;
“a prize fowl?” “No, no,” lie cried dramati-
cally; “nota da prize fowl —da boiled fowl!”
According to a cable a large section of the
London press is agreed that Atlantic flights
have gone far enough. That, of course, is
just what they have not done.
SHE MADE IT HOT.
’Twas in the early days of bliss
That winsome, wedded Sue
Said, “Dear old thing, your coffee’s cold,
I’ll make it hot for you.”
And ten years later, when a meek
And henpecked husband, Jim. —
Said, “Sue, this coffee’s nearly cold,”
She made it hot for him.
victoria. Lucy Hill.
S. M. Herald ad.: “Small microscope
wanted—apply Student.” Of women’s dresses,
no doubt.
A recent broadcasting in Sydney proved
how easy it is to talk right round the world.
Every day the world becomes a harder place
for husbands to live in.
As some advertisements really ought to
read: “This line, 10s. "lid.: Special price for
country visitors, 11s. lOd.”
N.S.W. Cabinet has limited the load that
may be carried by a motor vehicle to 10
tons. The idea, we understand, is to abolish
the disfigurement of roads caused by impres-
sions of pedestrians.
*
Curate: “I think that an additional tenor
would improve our choir, Mr. Oatenhay.”
Mr. Oatenhay: “A tenner! Stone th’
crows, it takes me all my time to rake up
10 bob a year for yer.”
“Prohibition in the United States,” says
a temperance lecturer, “has been responsible
for a general uplift and the
abolition of animalistic pas-
sions.” Well, why that rush
order from the U.S.A. for 1000
tons of Queensland peanuts?
“Australia,” says the S. M.
Herald, “is about to acquire
a novel export trade.” It is cer-
tainly time there was some re-
prisal against washy imported
literature.
The most heartless road-hog
we know is one who has por-
traits of some of our prominent
men fastened underneath his
car.
Sydney Guardian heading: “Canberra
Ministers Staggered.” Rather a brisk way
of announcing the arrival of a motor-lorry
from Queanbeyan.
This is the time of year when the leaves
of some trees begin to fall and all football
referees in Melbourne begin to make their
wills.
“Jazz,” reports the Sydney Telegraph,
“is carried out first on one foot and then on
the other.” As the tops of many girls’ shoes
bear witness.
It must have been a married comp, who
in a recent Brisbane Courier pre-matri-
rnonial announcement spelt the word “en-
caged.”
* *
The most touching advertisement we have
seen for some time appeared in a recent Sydney
daily : “Young Russian, man, having know-
ledge clerical work, wants any position,
even hard work.”
Tliei’e arc folk who introduce you to the ones
you wish to shun :
There are things you want to shoot at when
you, haven't got a gun;
But by far the most exasperating things
beneath the sun
Arc the whiners that you nick out when you
you haven’t got the mon’.
Newspaper heading: “Dishonest Land
Salesmen.” Isn’t the first word redundant?
Sydney News headings: “Called to the
Bar: Naval Officer.” Obviously a rum news
item.
THE EPICURE.
The large lady sailed into the butcher’s
on a Saturday morning.
“I want,” she said, “some meat for a dog
—a littleish sort of dog.”
“Dorg’s meat, mum? Yessum,” said the
man of flesh. “ ’Ow about a nice piece uv
liver?”
The lady shuddered. “Liver! My good
man, he won’t eat liver!”
“Well, ’ere’s some nice mutton-bones, ’Ow
would threepenn’orth o’ them go?”
A LIMITED FIELD.
“Why, my dear, I think he must he wander-
ing in his mind to say such a thing.”
“Well, he can’t be very jar away, can he?”
“Bones! No—Bingo simply won’t look at
bones!”
The meat man, conscious of the long line
of waiting customers, leaned across the
counter. “Jer think,” he said grimly, “a
nice porter-’ouse steak would tempt th’ little
love?” '
The Immature Male.
Women, according to a feminist, are far
more courageous than men in most circum-
stances. We have noticed that at the theatre,
anyway, they always show a great deal
more backbone.
A recent Sydney bankrupt admitted that
he kept a string of greyhounds and a
butcher’s shop. Surely a plumper breed
of dog would have been better for the string.
S. M. Herald ad.: “For sale, antiques
and quaint old things.” But who on earth
wants to buy our Legislative Councillors?
THE GREATER FAME.
FIRST LITTLE GIRL: "My father had a
quarter-page photo in the paper when
he was made Mayor.”
SECOND LITTLE GIRL: “ That's nothingl My
mother had a full page when she got
her divorce.”
It is reported that New York society
women are now having bouts between pro-
minent boxers at their afternoon teas. Well,
hasn’t afternoon tea always been rather
effeminate ?
Motor Dealer (after trial spin) : “What
—you’re not satisfied with her strength?
Why, she’s SO liorse-power.”
The Client: “Yes—I’ve backed horses like
that myself.”
Impressive item from a recent obituary
notice: “He took a great interest in col-
lecting coins, and at the time of his death
was president of the Caledonian Society.”
* *
[OBITA
The coroner he found that Bill,
Who used to run the Service Page,
Died of a secret sort of ill,
Though, he was at a healthy age.
Now Bill, he answered questions like'.
What poison’s best to catch a dun?
Do peanuts grow in Bally hike?
And what ran sixth when Carbine won?
How many fights go to the cask?
Can scent, be made from Queensland goats?
Are, baskets little things that bask?
Do wharfies ever shed their coats?
Aye, these and more Bill answered — oh,
A help was he to all in need!
'Till (tears!) some blighter sought to know
The time of year that tin hares breed!
N.s.w. Top Rail.
* *
WITH THE BROADCASTERS
Hello, hello. This is station 5IIO,
broadcasting from the sports. The time is
now three o’clock. The next item on the
programme is the three-mile walk. A lot
of people profess to laugh at this sport, but
it is actually very fine and interesting in-
deed. There is something thrilling about it
that it has quite on its own. The men are
now getting on to the mark. There are five
of them, all champions. It promises to be
one of the most interesting events of the
day. They are off.... Hello, hello. This
is station 5HO broadcasting from the
sports. The three-mile walking race is just
finishing. As forecasted, it was one of the
most interesting events of the day. Why
people laugh at it seems inexplicable. In a
fine finish Sprightly has won. The others
all dropped out. The time is now 5.45
o’clock.
Uncle Billo.
EVE-OLUTION.
Eve’s tiny dress
Had such success
With Adam when she wore ; t,
'That she perceived
The more she leaved
The more he would adore it.
But should we grieve
If modern Eve
The first Eve’s law should sunder,
And cease to drape
Hdr lovely shape,
The more and more, I wonder?
In this with me
Yon will agree,
Her dress gets less and lesser;
But do you think
The modern shrink
Becomes the less the dresser?
Bure, woman’s dress
Is growing less
(And less dress I sec coming) ;
But is her dress —
Becoming less —
Becoming less becoming?
VICTORIA.
JACK DAVIES.


Now you can consider
owning a Knight-engined car
One outstanding basic development in the motor car indus-
try is the introduction of the famous Knight double-sleeve-
valve engine to the lower price range of motor cars. This
means that every motor car buyer can own a car powered
by the finest type of engine.
Consider the advantage of driving a car that is always smooth,
quiet and alert—one that is unusually free from carbon
trouble and mechanical annoyance—with an noted for
its power stamina and long life.
For a new conception of motor car value and motor car thrill
drive a Faleon-Knight at your earliest convenience.
Falcon-Knighl
THE WORLD’S FINEST TYPE OFC^MOTOR
KNIGHT MOTORS (N.S.W.), LTD., 136 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
KNIGHT MOTORS (VIC.) PTY., LTD., 124-26 Russell Street, Melbourne.
KNIGHT MOTORS (Q’LD), LTD., Q.T. C. Building, Petrie’s Bight, Queer
Street, Brisbane.
KNIGHT MOTORS (S.A.), LTD., Franklin Street, Adelaide.
KNIGHT MOTORS (W.A.), LTD., Murray Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD., 53-56 Bathurat Street, Hobart.


The Federal Mutual
?20'U > CM>
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation /ct 1926.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors: R. Rawnsley Moss, Chairman; W. B. Ainsworth, Esq.; T. A. Magney, Esq.;
S. Sampson, Esq.; J. T. Turner, Esq.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: Weymouth Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MI.VOGUE. Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE. General Manager.
TAKE A PARTNER.
If you were offered a partner who, while providing
guarantees of his stability, would devote himself to safeguard-
ing your money, make it earn profit, and demand nothing
from you in return, wouldn’t you accept?
Of course you would, and—
you ARE offered such a partner.
A Savings Account will do all this for you, and yet
allow you full control of the business.
Open a Commonwealth Savings Account to-day.
Commonwealth lank of Huslralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
Poverty
Point
‘Norson” : A London daily critic had so in 2
revealing things to say the other day when
discussing Margaret Bannerman’s venture
south with “Sexes and Sevens,” which was
banned by the censor in London. “Over
there,” lie said, “there is no hard and fast
ru.e about plays. Detectives may appear
on a first night, but that is all.” He added
that if Margaret opens in Melbourne she will
start off wtih “Diplomacy,” but if Sydney is
to be her jumping-off place she will choose
“Our Betters,” because “Sydney is more
sophisticated than Melbourne.”
“F.S.”: Anything which savors of the
primitive has a great lure. It does not only
attract hussies, as in the recent Melbourne
negro affair; professors, artists and poets
are just as ready to lend an ear to the voice
of the jungle. A Stravinsky is blood
brother across the ages to the abo. instru-
mentalist slapping his cupped palms on his
neighbor’s anatomy. I have seen a Dyak
painting a Cubist masterpiece fit to hang
in any New Art exhibition. Examples of
the Epstein school of sculpture litter Easter
Island. The critics assist the movement
by calling it a “Return to Nature.” It
took centuries of culture to produce the
delicate tones in modern textiles, but the
theory is that the savage’s appreciation of
the primary colors is somehow higher. The
minuet as a measure is incomparably superior
to the monotonous beat of syncopation ; but
it hasn’t a chance in a modern ballroom.
“Garbut” : The placing of Victoria’s two
crack brass bands, Malvern Tramways and
Collingwood Citizens, at a recent contest
in Melbourne shows what a gamble such
contests are. The adjudicating was done by
three men, reputedly of equal competence.
A’s placing was Malvern 93, Collingwood
92; B’s, Malvern 92, Collingwood 84; C’s,
Collingwood 90, Malvern 71. Collingwood,
though beaten by two judges to one, won
the aggregate by 10 points. Had A or B
been sole arbiter, as is usual, Malvern would
have won by one or eight points respectively,
and had C occupied the tent Collingwood
would have landed the bacon by 19 points.
“L.H.P.” : According to a slip issued with
the programme, Marglierita Flor regards the
role of Oscar, the page in “Un Ballo in
Maschera,” as of no consequence. Rose Her-
see made a hit in the role in the great Lyster
cast of 1879; so did Alice Rebottaro in the
Martin Simonsen show of 1887, and Vaccari
in the Williamson production of 1901. Visioni
also revelled in it in the Gonsalez production
of 1916-17. Whoever is responsible for the
published slip is encouraging stage snobbery
of the worst type.
“I. Phelps” : Hickman, the young fiend who
slew a bank manager’s daughter in Los
Angeles is not slipping off without an
attempt being made to keep his memory blue.
An enterprising Hollywooder got hold of
details of his youth and upbringing and has
filmed his life with all the decorative circum-
stances of his misdeeds, employing for the
star role an out-of-work movie actor bearing
a reprehensible physical likeness to the
original. However, it looks as if the Ameri-
can police will not give the atrocity a free
passport into the movie houses. Aroused
by the outraged Mayor of Alinneapolis, who
saw the horror at a private screening, the
police pounced upon the celluloid and forbade
its exhibition within the State frontiers —
which action will no doubt be followed all
over the Union.
“C. 8.”: The “English Comedy Company”
which has been playing “Tliark” in Alel-
bourne is glaringly deficient in a leading
lady. When the co. opens with “Rookery
Nook” in Adelaide, the present one will be
replaced by IG-year-old Donalda Warne, an
Australian girl who caught George High-
land’s eye when she appeared in the ballet
of “The Girl Friend” in Sydney. Donalda
has been walking on almost since she was
five.
“Craiser”: Victor Champion laid down
his baton in' Melbourne the other day. Alusi-
cal director at His Alajesty’s for 20 years,
he was also no mean composer of the light
ditty that aids the populace in the digestion
of its Christmas turkey. AVhen the Firm
demanded a score for one of its produc-
tions of “Aladdin,” he ran the trifle off in
72 hours.
“Hamfat” : As a fairly persistent vaudeville
follower I am inclined to give three cheers
over that band of coons tnat was hurried
out of Australia; the cheers are prompted
by the news that there is likely to be a
permanent ban upon colored performers. The
Fisk Jubilee Singers to a large extent mar-
ried amongst themselves and, morally inof-
fensive, were a pleasing combination; and
THE RIVALS.
LEADING GENT: “I started life as a newsboy, Madam; and look at me now.”
DITTO LADY: “Yes, I do think every boy should be taught a trade.”
Pope and Sayles, when they were together,
were real entertainers; but practically all
the other colored turns I have seen appeared
to be present through mere dull vaudeville
habit. As a comedian the coon is dismal, if
he is not childish or offensive. His chief
recommendation for vaudeville work seems
always to have been his color.
“De Oriel” : Films must be cheap in Aus-
tralia. I saw a very fine and clean picture
recently made here and directed by a man
from Hollywood at a cost to the owner of
£l5OO. The various film exhibitors made
the same excuse: “Can’t use it —too much
U.S.A. stuff.” One firm regretted it could
not find room for the picture even if it got
the thing for nothing.
“Caesar’s Ohost”: Victor Champion, who
made his exit in Melbourne the other day,
was one of the theatrical importations who
have found Australia too good to leave.
Meynell and Gunn brought him out as musi-
cal conductor for “Miss Hook of Holland”
and other pieces, and Williamsons were glad
to get him when that crowd’s enterprises
lapsed. Teddy Lonnen was his brother, and
Victor adopted the “Champion” tag because
he considered the use of a name associated
with a mere broad comedian, however famous,
might have a deleterious effect on a musi-
cal career.
“Goldilocks”: One of the quick right-
about-turns that are fairly frequently given
to imported mummers has sent Mamie Sout-
ter back to England. She was announced with
a flourish of trumpets, but the part she played
was not the lead, and she did not make
much of it. Within a fortnight Violet
Elliott, with the broad humor that accom-
panies her cheerful stoutness, was in
Alamie’s part and Alamie was on her way
to England.
“De Oriel”: Little Bellingen, of N.S.W.,
has set the rest of Australia a good example.
The manager of its local picture show has
barred all American gazettes because “Holly-
wood apparently believes baseball to be the
only game in the world and that America
still wins the war.”
“G.”: Another Australian doing well in
England is Eileen Kay Souper, who went
there to try her luck a year ago. She has
scored a success as Paulina in “The Con-
stant Nymph.”
“Macann”: The Bulletin’s exhortation
to Australians to drop the offensive term
“Pommy” (2t/3/’2S) was recalled sharply to
me during a recent visit to the Sydney Tivoli.
A couple of balancers called the Fordham
Brothers set out to win a clap by the old
method of deriding the warmth of the hear-
ing they were getting, and were doing pretty
well till the talkative one of the pair said:
“Not bad is it—for Pommies?” The re-
sponse to what that implied was a loud and
most enthusiastic burst of hollow groans;
and it reminded me of a belief that I have
had some strong evidence to support—that
Britishers themselves arc more likely to be
derisive towards Britishers than are Aus-
tralians. The Diggers were often accused of
heaving uncomplimentary remarks at the
Tommies, but I noticed that these insults
were frequently accompanied by a thick
Cockney accent.
“L.11.P.”: “Hamfat” (B. 21/3/’2B) is
wrong; Harry Overton Waters, to give his
full name, was never a chiropodist. Nor was
he connected with the chiropodist Overton
who some years ago had an office in Hunter-
street, Sydney. Many have confused the
two, a matter that often annoyed Waters.
“Santander” : “The Squaw Man,” in which
the loveliness of Charles Waldron stimulated
the pit-a-pat of innumerable flapper hearts
in his day, has been refurbished and mas-
saged and has started a new and jaunty
career as a musical comedy under the title of
“The White Eagle.” It is hoped that its
lavish allowance of Red Indians and two-gun
cowmen, plus the co m pres sent ent with which
it exhibits the nationality of its English hero,
will give it a pull in Britain and other parts
of the English-speaking world. Captain
Wynnegate, the well-born hero, is well fitted
to the personality of Allan Prior in the
musical version. Prior, an Australian, is,
indeed, duly weighted and found adequate
by the New York critics.
“Goldilocks”: Excited Italian hurtled
through the air behind the scenes on the
opening night of the Fuller Opera Co.s
“Carmen.” Not much scene-shifting is in-
volved in the productions, but the premises
are cluttered with scenery belonging to the
different operas. On the “Carmen” nigut
the “bullring,” essential for the last _ scene,
was unfindable. The show did not wind up
till 11.30.
“L.11.P.” : Italian opera in Sydney recalls
Italian drama in Sydney, when Ristori. one
of the world's greatest tragediennes, played
at the old Victoria Theatre, Pitt-street, in
July of 1875, with a complete Italian
dramatic co. The calibre of that co. may
be judged from the fact that it included
Signor and Signora Majeroni in the juvenile
leads. At prices ranging from £1 to 45.,
the Italians drew crowded houses. The plays
performed included Giacometti’s “Marie An-
toinette” and “Queen Elizabeth” and Schil-
ler’s “Mary Stuart.”
“P.IT.”: Contrary to the belief of “Caesar’s
Ghost” (B. 21/3/’2B), Judith Anderson has
not been able to make many of the public
“Behold the Bridegroom” at the Court
Theatre, New York. The people of her
adopted country have not been any more
warm-hearted, it appears, than her own, and
seven weeks saw the end of another of her
portraits of young ladies whose past won’t
bear inspection. What is wrong? She is a
capable actress, and she appears under good
banners. It seems she’s under a hoodoo as
well.
“Goldilocks” : The latest big British film,
“Moulin Rouge,” stars Eve Gray as the
feminine lead, and she seems to have made
a success of it. The winning of a beauty
contest run by the Sydney News, which did
not depend upon the contestants making
exhibitions of themselves in bathing costumes,
started Eve’s show career. Rather lifeless
when she made her first stage appearance
with a Fuller panto., she sought training
and gained professional experience; and when
she went to London immediately struck luck.
This is not her first essay in pictures;
she appeared in at least one Australian-built
film.
“Santander”: Bert Bailey, who is mak-
ing another raid on the pockets of the multi-
tude with a cheerful revival of “On Our
Selection,” can still muster four of the cast
that first appeared in the classic in 1912 —
Queenie Sefton, Fred Macdonald, Jack
Lonnen and Willie Driscoll. The last-
named, who has been ushering in the King’s
Theatre for years, is always first favorite for
the part of Uncle, and no production of the
wayback tale would be complete without
Fred Macdonald as Dave. None of them,
however, has achieved Bailey’s record.
“P.H.” : “Flesh and the Devil” must have
been good for “Flaming Youth” to make him
believe it was the real Teutonic article
(B. 28/3/’2S). It is true Hollywooden and
was made during the attachment of Greta
Garbo and John Gilbert —the one a Swede
and the other an American.
“I. Phelps”: Bayard Veiller, who re-
tired some time ago on the proceeds of
“Within the Law” and “The Thirteenth
Chair,” will be lifted to a higher pinnacle
of affluence by “The Trial of Mary Dugan,”
now in Melbourne. It was the American
boom in sucli crook dramas as “Crime” that
pinned Bayard once more to his desk, and
bis yarn of Mary, the pretty one who sold
her young body to buy her brother a beau-
tiful education, struck Broadway in its soft-
est part. At the time of writing, the plav
has done 22 weeks at the New York National,
with the multitude still storming the pay-
boxes. Royalties from Australia and Eng-
land will add to the author’s takings, and
Mary will soon be telling her wrongs in
several European languages.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Another commentary
upon the brevity of fame was made when the
cable mentioned merely: “The death has
occurred of R. C. Carton, dramatist.” Car-
ton had the misfortune, from the point of
view of reputation, to live until he was 75,
and although he continued producing new
plays until five years ago, it is a long time
since he scored a decisive hit. “Lord and
Lady Algy” and “The Squire of Dames”
were among the chief successes of his score
or so of plays. Carton was an actor of
parts himself in his younger days, and was
associated with Irving in “Hamlet.”
“L.H.P.” : The revival of “Carmen” once
more on the Sydney stage stirs up memories.
Lyster introduced it in 1879 with Rose IJer-
see as Carmen. Sundry other Carmens in-
clude Elsa May, Annis Montague, Cisneros.
Agnes Jansen and Louise Lablache. J.C.W.’s
Royal Comic Opera Co. put up an excellent
performance in Bizet’s opera at the Mel-
bourne Princess in 1892. Marie Halton was
the Carmen.
TWO MEN MET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A man was born in London town, and keen
of sight was lie
For every human folly, every grav“
absui’dity;
But, keener still to prize the grains of gold
among the chaff,
He chose to trick his brothers “into learning
with a laugh.”
A man was born in London town, and blessfed
thrice was he
With skill to fashion notes like flowers in
wreaths of melody;
With cunning, with simplicity, the measures
he compiled
To please a grave professor or delight a little
child.
The two men met in London town, as all
good angels planned ;
They laid their gifts together there, and
labored hand to hand.
So Wit was crowned with Harmony, and
Nonsense wed to Song,
And London rocked with laughter through
the yeai’s that stole along.
Now far away from London town, in out
posts of the earth,
We whistle scraps of Sullivan and quote
from Gilbert’s mirth ;
And thank two men for two most precious
comforts ’neath the sun :
The lilting lift of melody, the sheer delight
of fun !
VICTORIA.
RIKKIT.


Of all dealers
A
in 1
inn 1
A
]«ill
\\
lljiiiiiu,
■ i!
in
r ‘"i
in'*
alii
The “Valet” Blade has not only the sharp-
est edge ever put upon Steel, but there is
also in the “Valet” Razor a self-Stropping
device which revives that super-edge from
day to day. The perfectly designed
frame is rendered more efficient by the
excellence of its blade. The super-keen
blade is kept sharp for 50 or 60 shaves
by juSt ten seconds daily Stropping.
“VALET”
Safety Razor
No 99 Set. Contains razor ,
three blades and strop in
neat case. AH the essentials
for tl e perfect Q //I
“ Valet ” shave . O
No. 55 Set. Contains razor,
three blades and strop in
hinged container. In highly
polished nickelled
case ...
10/-
Managing Agents for Australia :
PHIPSON & COMPANY. LTD., 181, CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
New Zealand Agents: Van Staveren Bros., Ltd., Auckland, Welling.on, Christchurch.
Radiant
Health
and Vigour
-
OR
Strong and energetic, she enjoys
work and play alike, and sleeps like
a baby when the day is over. No
wonder she looks so happy. The
secret is her regular use of Sanatogen.
When you feel depressed and every
little task seems a mountain of trouble,
your system is crying out for
Sanatogen.
Sanatogen is a wonderful strength
and energy producing food for the
weak and ailing. It gives nerve*
strength and health to those who
suffer from debility and lassitude.
Determine to try Sanatogen. It is obtain*
able at all Chemists from 3/9 per tin.
* The True Tonic-Food
GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.
sm
W&
mm
■CW
Sf
The shortest, -quickest route to the British Isles is that via
San Francisco and New York—29 days.
On the way across the Pacific, aboard a Matson Oceanic
liner, the traveller revels in the glorious beauty of the "Isles
of Enchantment’’ —Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii —each island group
with a distinctive allure of its own.
Then the transcontinental tour aboard palatial trains—over
the scenic Sierras and the Rocky Mountains, regions of
rugged grandeur; through gorgeous National Parks, and
onward to Chicago and New York, where skyscrapers rise in
majestic terraces.
If you are planning a trip to Britain, by all means include this tour
via the Pacific and across the United States. The fare from Sydney
to any English port by this route is £125, first-class throughout; to
England and return, £235, with choice of the Suez route for the
homeward journey if desired. Other fares: £ll2 and £92 single;
£209 and £ 176 return, according to class selected.
The illustrated travel leaflet, "Across the United States,” is free upon
request.
S.S. SIERRA. S.S. SONOMA. S.S. VENTURA
Sailing every third Saturday.
tme ©©eaui© steamship ©®«
MfIVON Line
12 Bridge Street, Sydney. E —2B
local Agents: Mcllwraith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 William St., Melbourne; 117-119 K:-:
William St., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth and Albany; Howard Smith Limited. Brisban.c


CHEVROLET
Better
WJ,
K
Chevrolet
Announces to Australia
A Great New
Motor Car
oyory neut feature
of advanced design
and Completeness
of detail
offered in the new
Chevrolet
To-day Chevrolet presents the
crowning triumph of sixteen
years of continuous progress.
It represents the culminating
achievement of a long-continued
policy of progressive building—
a policy which commenced with
ECONOMICAL TRANSPORT-
ATION as its fundamental
principle.
Chevrolet’s next step was the
application of another funda-
mental principle QUALITY
AT LOW COST.
Then followed the principle
of BEAUTY.
To Economical Transporta-
tion—Quality at Low Cost—
Chevrolet added Pride of
Ownership.
And now comes the fourth
step—a BIGGER AND BETTER
CHEVROLET.
The New Developments Include
Re-designed, more powerful
Motor fully enclosed
smoother and quieter, faster
acceleration.
New crankcase ventilating
system.
Aluminium alloy “invarstrut”
pistons.
New noiseless timing gears.
New two-port exhaust.
Larger, deeper radiator.
Thermostat heat control.
New deep steel chassis frame
——4 inches longer.
Longer wheel-base 107
inches.
New ball-bearing steering
mechanism.
New and longer semi-elliptic
springs—84 % of wheel-base—
Springs equipped both ends
with two direction snubbing
plates, making additional
snubbers unnecessary.
Four wheel brakes.
Completely enclosed instru-
ment panel indirectly
lighted.
Wider tyre rims giving
better riding quality.
Larger balloon tyres.
New beauty of line and finish.
New colorful Duco tones.
Buy from your Local Dealer
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTORS:—
SYDNEY: J. McGrath, Ltd., 155 Elizabeth Street. ADELAIDE: Mann’s Motors, Ltd., 71-79 Franklin
MELBOURNE: Lane’s Motors Pty., Ltd., 89-105 Street.
Exhibition Street BRISBANE: Metropolitan Motors, Ltd., Adelaide St.
PERTH: Skipper Bailey Motors Co., Ltd., 900 Hay Street.
GENERAL MOTORS (Aust.) PTY., LTD.
sd
Wheel
Brakes
PRICES
The Touring
Car ------
£205
Standard
Roadster
£205
The Sport
Roadster - - -
£226
The Two-door
Sedan - - - -
£285
The Four-door
Sedan -- - -
£315
At Company's Works All States.
5 Balloon Tyres and Tubes
Standard Equipment.
WARRANTED
for
ONE YEAR.
urn
EE


BY APPOINTMENT
Mappin&Vfebb
A A LTD,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
JEWELLERY, GOLD AND SILVERWARE,
WATCHES, CLOCKS, PRINCE’S PLATE,
FANCY AND LEATHER GOODS.
I
Fumed Oak Cabinet containing a complete service
of Prince’s Plate Spoons and Forks and “Trust-
worthy” Stainless Steel Cutlery. Prices range from
£5/5/- to £lOO.
Visitors to London
Mappin & Webb have the distinction of being one of
the oldest firms of Gold and Silversmiths, Jewellers,
etc., in the world, and they extend a cordial invita-
tion to visitors from the Commonwealth to call at
their Showrooms when in London.
The West-end Showrooms are within 5 minutes by
taxi from the Leading Hotels; the City Showrooms are
opposite the Mansion House, and quite near the Guild-
hall, St. Paul’s Cathedral and the Tower of London.
Mappin&'Xfefcb
1 1 LTD.
LONDON, ENGLAND.
158-162 Oxford St. W.l. 172 Regent St. W.l. 2 Queen Victoria St. E.C.4.
The Company has Branch Establishments at Paris, Nice, Biarritz, Rome,
Johannesburg, Montreal, Buenos Aires, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo and Bombay.
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital £lOO,OOO
Issued Capital 49,161
Paid-up Capital 30,234
Directors:
John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
\V. G. Woodger, Esq.; S. J. Goulston, Esq.
R. G. H. Joseland, Esq.
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax,
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
L. G. FUSSELL, General Manager.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE . . . . . . BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory). Melbourne, Sydney, and
96 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the lending Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Hank offers the fullest facilities .for the transaction of all general hanking business.
THE INKY WAY.
"C.Q.” : The Argus has stolen a march on
the other dailies by instituting serious criti-
cism of the wireless programmes. Its musi-
cal critic is Dr. Floyd, the organist of St.
Paul’s. The little man has a profound know-
ledge of his subject, and hides under a
politely acid manner a genuine geniality of
temperament and a courage not shared by
the general run of newspaper writers.
The Launceston Daily Telegraph has
closed down after carrying the Protectionist
banner in the Speck for 47 years. It was
started by Mowbray, Barnes and Co., and
became a daily in its third year. It was the
first newspaper published in Tasmania at a
penny, and once boasted the largest circula-
tion. One of the earliest editors was George
Nixon Stewart, and one of the latest leader-
writers was his grandson, H. W. Stewart, a
well-known Bulletin contributor. One by-
gone editor was Tom Prichard, father of
Katharine Susannah Prichard. A foolish
attempt to turn it into an evening pictorial
hastened the end.
“Knib” : Answering the challenge issued by
the Sun-Pic. some time ago, the Melbourne
Age is now publishing its circulation as
certified by public accountants. The figures
show 123,533. Not so many years ago it had
40,000 more. The competition of the Sun-
PiC., which claims 143,000 or thereabouts,
has hit the Age harder than the Argus.
Melbourne’s only evening paper, the Herald,
boasts an average of 181,000 a day.
“Brom”: Jack McLaren has completed an-
other novel, “The Sun Man,” which Benn
of London is issuing shortly. McLaren, who
found the Cockney winter rather trying, has
been doing the Riviera and Corsica on a
recuperative tour. At Calvi in the latter
island he had no difficulty in picking up a
pink-covered journal which gave him a fill
of Australian news. In the same neighbor-
hood, he inspected the ruins of the house in
which Columbus is a r eged to'have been born.
Billy Hughes, talking to the Nationalists’
conference in Sydney, said that Bruce and
his Ministers didn’t know what criticism
was; they ought to have a bit of what he had
gone through. He didn’t add that at
one period of the war he had actually
appointed a special censor to strike out
adverse criticism of himself, and on one
occasion tried to bounce The Bulletin
into discarding two cartoons which reflected
on his conduct of affairs, notwithstanding
that those cartoons had been passed by the
censor. It will always stand to the credit
of Holman that he intimated that he would
refuse to appear on the platform with Hughes
until that attempt to gag the press was
abandoned. And abandoned it was. The
Bulletin was told “to print its damned
cartoons and go to Hell,” and it printed the
cartoons and thanked Mr. Hughes for desir-
ing its company.
“Aeroquiz”: The descriptive realism in
the account of Hinkler’s flight to Australia,
as allegedly written by himself for a chain
of local dailies, suggested literary gifts
hardly suspected previously. In his flight
from Rome to Malta and thence onward
to the North African coast, Bert (or his
“ghost”) was filled with wonder at the Apen-
nine gorges, the glory of the bays and cliffs
studding the instep of old Italy right down
to the toe-point, and various other natural
marvels. The trouble with all these sup-
posedly authentic chronicles is that the per-
sonality of the unhappy hack engaged to
tell the tale for the hero inevitably intrudes
sooner or later.
A DIFFICULT PROBLEM.
CLERGYMAN: “Wouldn’t it be much more
comfortable for you if you were to
make it up with your wife? You should
speak to her.”
WORRIED PARISHIONER: “You—you don’t
understand. She gets so blinkin’ wild
if you go to interrupt her!”
"Bill Bowyang”: The trouble that faces
people who try to give Australia a local maga-
zine—my own latest effort crashed after
the second issue—is that newsagents will
not push it, simply because they find similar
publications from overseas more profitable.
The publisher of a local magazine priced at
Is. per copy can offer the seller only 3d.
per copy commission, whereas English and
American magazines at Is. 6d. return a
profit of 9d. on each copy sold. In small
coastal centres in N.Q. where newsagents—
some of them Digger comrades of mine—
drew the attention of customers to my maga-
zine, more copies were sold than in the larger
centres. Only when newsagents will heartily
co-operate with the publisher and push sales
will a purely Australian magazine become a
remunerative proposition.
“Loyola”: “N.M.L.,” in his tribute to
Mick Paul (B. 7/3/’2B), unwittingly creates
a wrong impression. So far from being one
of the “old fellows shouldering the young-
sters out of the way,” Mick is not yet 40,
but, since his first Bulletin drawing
appeared when he was 16 and he has been
a regular contributor ever since, many form
the idea that he is Avell on in years. My per-
sonal grievance with Mick is that his popular
black-and-white threatens to shoulder one of
the finest Australian water-colorists per-
manently out of the way. He can put more
luminous imagination and beauty into 12
square inches than 90 per cent, of the one-
man-show blokes who only know him as a
Bulletin caricaturist.
“P.X.”: “Black Out” (B. 2S/3/’2B)
knows only half the truth about David
Wright’s famous phrase, “Beer makes us
feel as we ought to feel without it.” It was
a sentence in a short “Plain English,” and
Archibald enjoyed it immensely. But his
memory was very confused about that time,
and the old man was soon uttering the bon
mot as his own. It was then that David, in
that gently reproving way of his, asked
Archibald if he remembered who the author
was. Later Archibald did remember, and in
an early number of Smith’s the sentence
A STAYER.
HE: “Sounds like someone moving about in
the kitchen!”
SHE: “It must be dad. getting mother’s
morning tea.”
was printed and the authorship ascribed to
D. M. Wright, though as a matter of fact
it wasn’t signed when it originally appeared
in The Bulletin.
“Clerk”: Extract from the official Vic-
torian Railways Union Gazette of June
1, 1893:
A prominent railway officer recently said that
unions were organised for the purpose of coercion by
strikes when they saw their opportunity.... Such
a view of an organisation of Government employees
desirous of bettering their condition is an absurd
and exaggerated fallacy. A strike has never been, nor
is likely to be, advocated; nor was this Union founded
for such a purpose. The Union is committed to a
labor of pacific purposes.
The comrade who wrote in that strain nowa-
days would probably be declared “black” off-
hand.
The S. M. Herald published a queer
apology the other day. Over the name of,
say, Stella Snooks it had printed some verse
which a year previously it had printed over
the name of Jane Jenks, its actual author.
The apology was to Miss Jenks; and if Miss
Jenks insisted on it she might have had more
consideration for the paper’s feelings. One
of the sorrows of the lives of papers that buy
MSS. is the person who is prepared to sell
you somebody else’s matter. Generally it is
stolen, and the money obtained for it is got
by fraud; but nine times out of ten a pretty
story is told about it. The other day The
Bulletin was offered some MS. alleged to
have been written on his death-bed by Henry
Lawson. It wasn’t in his handwriting, and
The Bulletin wanted the original. Then
a further chapter of the story was told.
There wasn’t a copy in Lawson’s hand, be-
cause he was too sick at the time to write
anything; but he dictated it to the kind old
lady who had looked after him in his later
years. The Bulletin wanted to see the old
lady—she had been the intermediary between
it and the very careless poet many a time.
Still she wasn’t forthcoming ; instead, a docu-
ment was produced purporting to be signed
by the lady and detailing the circumstances
in which she came to write the verses at
Lawson’s dictation. Accompanying this was
a stained and creased and much altered ami
corrected set of verses alleged to be the
original MS. x\t this stage the man who had
been dealing with the matter, and who had
been sniffing all the time, submitted “the last
verses of Henry Lawson: an unfinished frag-
ment” to two colleagues. One of them
instantly reported: “I read these verses 20
years ago” ; the other, more generous of time
still, said: “This was familiar to me 30
years ago.” So the nice cheque that might
have been paid was never signed.
Matt Charlton, a tired man after 25
years of politics, will probably be glad of
the opportunity to take matters easily pro-
vided by the uplifting of Scullin. He entered
the N.S.W. Assembly as member for Wara-
tah on a by-election. When the electorate
went out in a reduction of Parliamentary
representation, Charlton tackled John Nor-
ton at Northumberland and beat him, and
in 1910 the Hunter electors sent him into
the Federal Parliament. He became Labor
leader in 1922 after the death of Frank
Tudor, which, incidentally, gave Scullin his
chance to get in.
A work of Maorilander William Wilson,
“Electrical Control Gear and Industrial
Electrification,” has gained for him an
invitation to write the section on
“Industrial Electrification” for the Encyelo-
psedia Britannica. As chairman of the
South Midlands Institution of Electrical
Engineers Wilson recently dealt out some
pungent criticism of British conservatism in
industry and the resultant loss of trade; One
poignant instance concerned a large order
from China for egg-cups. The British manu-
facturer refused to make smaller cups than
those required for Old Country hens; if
Chines" lr-ns chose to lay smaller eggs that
John Bull hens that was John Chinaman's
misfortune.


!
/
fl
U
REPUBLIC SCORES EVERY TIME
You want FACTS —not bouquets. You want to know
which truck is going to show YOU the biggest profit.
If you will send us your name we will gladly supply
you with bullet-proof evidence that you will get
more out of a Republic Truck than you at present
deem possible. Meanwhile, if you will call and
inspect the Republic you will realise that it is built
in such a way that the years have no effect on the
service it gives.
f
New South Wales:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney,
Victoria:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
South Australia:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Way mouth Street, Adelaide.
TRUCKS
Factory Distributors:
W. A. CROWLE, LTD.,
Crowle House, Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Western Australia:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
Queensland:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
New Zealand:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
G.R. 10.


A NEW, RELIABLE GUN MADE
BY AN OLD, RELIABLE FIRM.
tEFEV F£LDANB B TRAP L BUN B
851
Post Free All
Over Australia.
THE LEFEVER LONG-RANGE 12-GAUGE TRAP AND FIELD GUN.
This is the only inexpensive HAMMERLESSS Single-barrel breech-loading Shot Gun with an auto-
maticlafety de4e such as is used on expensive doubi ..-barrel guns, and“
kicks the shells out when the gun is opened. Every Lefever single is carefully ch ,k t f‘ b ° e ' J ”, , ,
closest, hardest long-range pattern. Every barrel is proved with an excessive load T h * e
sure it has the necessary material and strength to be safe for ANY standard factoiy load. T
barrel is 32in.’ long. The stock has checkered full pistol-grip stock with hard rubber grip cap a
heelplate.
LEFEVERS STAND USE AND ABUSE.
We are the Agents.
Va
LTD
PTY
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
For They are Jolly Good Fellows
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA'S BEST BITTER.
A nd so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON. H
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The A.J.C. had wild weather and heavy
going for the first day of its Easter meeting
at Randwick, as was the case last year. Ihe
track was really in a worse condition than
it was then, and it is rather a pity that th
nrecedent of a postponement was not toi-
lowed. For one thing the atten-
dance was nearly 30,000 short
of the estimated 80,000, and
totalisator receipts dropped
£17,118, while the outlook for
heavyweights in the Doncaster
was so hopeless that Vaals and
Boaster, who had been hacked
for barrels of money, Vaals
especially, were scratched. But
it is a rule of the club never to
postpone unless racing might
conceivably be dangerous to man
and beast.
The conditions suited Limerick, especially
as there was still a bit of inflammation in the
hoof that bothered him after the race at
Warwick Farm, and the champion was not
extended in the Autumn Stakes, for which
he went out at 6 to 1 on. Piastoon (33 to
1) made the running, and came home much
more strongly than Pilliewinkie (8 to 1), who
was a poor third; Tibbie and Spearer were
the other starters. The time was 2min.
50sec. —the slowest for many years.
The unbeaten Mollison (6 to 4 on) also
relished the going in the Sires’ Produce
Stakes —he proved himself as smait a wet-
weather horse as the late Royal Feast, if not
better. He romped home by lengths from
the unthought of Coercion (50 to -1), who
was his own length ahead of Ramulus (4
to 1), the seven furlongs taking lmin. 32sec.
At Warwick Farm Ramulus had given Coer-
cion 151 b. and beaten him by a dozen lengths
at least, so it was painfully obvious to liis
supporters that he didn’t care for the going.
Mollison, who was ridden by Daniels, has
now won £13,217 in stakes for E. M. Pearce,
his success on Saturday having added £4631
to the previous total.
Weight of money made Rionscup favorite
for the Doncaster Handicap—he finished up
at fours. Don Moon, last year’s winner, was
backed from twelves (better in places) to
sixes, and Simeon’s Fort was also in request
at nines. Most of the other 16 runners were
at long prices; Lady Constance (14 to 1),
Reonui (15 to 1), Aorangi and Noscitur (16
to 1), Habashon (20 to 1) and Magdaff (25
to 1) were most in demand. When they had
gone two furlongs Rionscup was in front, but
at the half mile Ascalon was in the lead, and
with Preposterer she led into the straight
from Don Moon, Simeon’s Fort and Rions-
cup. Ascalon and Preposterer dropped out
quickly, and a furlong from home Simeon’s
Fort, Don Moon, Aorangi and Magdaff were
having a good tussle, Magdaff having come
from nearly last to fourth in a couple of
furlongs. For a moment Aorangi looked like
winning, but with Duncan plying the whip
vigorously, Simeon’s Fort bounded ahead,
Ind the race was over. The English, horse
finished three lengths ahead of Aorangi, who
W a s the same distance m front of Don Moon,
Magdaff, who ran out wide and was near
the grandstand fence when Waterman stopped
riding, was next. These four were, clear of
a weary and strung-out lot, of which Cool-
gong, Amounis, Rionscup and the Queens-
land mare Kitty Paddington did best Ihe
time, lmin. 45|sec„ was the slowest since
1894, Donizetti’s year, except that nem
equalled it in 1919.
Simeon’s Fort is a good-looking five-
year-old brown stallion by H ai nauß—Dady
Simeon. Victorian trainer M. T. McGrath
paid £3OOO for him in England for 6. V
Scott, whose cheque in respect of Saturday -
race amounted to £2995. It was not ex-
actly a popular victory,, for the horse had
failed at Roseliill and Warwick Farm, being
beaten out of a place each time; and then
there was a report that he had gone lame.
So the public had no encouragement to back
him. Magdaff was the unlucky horse of the
race, and he would have given a lot more
trouble on a dry track.
The St. Leger furnished excitement of a
kind unexpected by punters and unpalatable,
to many of them. There were only three
starters, and Trivalve was at 2 to 1 on,
Winalot being 5 to 2, and Jocelyn 7 to 1
against. Trivalve looked fit enough, and
when Lewis took him to the front to ensure
a sound pace there were shouts of -they u
never pass him!” But, as the veteran jockey
said afterwards, his sturdy legs were slipping
all over the place, and when Jocelyn made a
cut at him three furlongs from home he
could not beat her off. On the contrary, she
went past him with no great difficulty, and
had a two-lengths’ lead entering the straight.
Winalot tackled the black filly ft furlong or
so from home and, after a sharp struggle,
A BIT OVER THE ODDS.
SELECTOR (to Jackie, who’s been to the local races): “What won the Publican’s Purse?”
JACKIE: “Mucki, first; Goomeroo, second."
SELECTOR: “What was third?”
JACKIE: “Oh, I dunno that one. You think I got three plurry eye?"
beat her by three-quarters of a length. Lewis
did not bustle Trivalve when it was clear he
couldn’t come on, and the Derby and Cup
winner finished 20 lengths behind Rossen-
dale’s game daughter. He is a good colt
i< would be ridiculous to deny it—but never
again will he be a short-priced favorite on a
sodden track. Toohey rode a well-judged
race on Winalot, whose price naturally?
shortened for the Sydney Cup.
In-and-out Sion (12 to 1), ridden -by Pike,
wound up the day well for McShortodds by
winning the Ilighweight Handicap from
Royal Sun (20 to 1) and. Quince (16 to 1),
an early winner. Royal Sun s div. on trie
10s. tote was £6 4s. —the best of the day.
Seldom does a three-year-old win the Syd-
ney Cup with upwards of Bst. By accom-
plishing this feat on Monday Winalot entered
the same class as Lord Cardigan (1904),
Wallace (1896) and other great three-year-
olds of the past. Always in a good position
the chestnut came away when Toohey called
on him and won by lengths, Tangible and
Strongbow had a spirited tussle for secon
Til nee • Percival got an extra kick out 01
Tangible and the Lilyveil gelding landed the
richer prize for J. J. Leahy. The eleventh-
fiour backing of Amusement (lie ran badly)
•ind Valwyne enabled backers of Wmajot to
o-et fours, while Tangible and Strongbow
“ 1 sixteens. Although the day was
bright the track was dead after Saturday s
rain ’mid 6 when the two “iles had been
traversed the clock showed 3mm.
was certainly a lucky day for E. K. V\ hite
when he bought Winalot out of the Chisholm
estate for 2300 guineas, and trainer J. W.
Cook lias shared in his good fortune.
Fancies for the remaining days:
All-aged Stakes: Limerick; next Gothic.
Cumberland Stakes: Limerick; next
Coogee Handicap: Magdaff; next Crom-
W< City Handicap : Amusement; next Strong-
bow. ,
King’s Cup : Honan ; next Valparaiso.
* * * *
Imported Parsee, who accompanied Sim-
eon’s Fort to Australia, won a Trial Welter
at Sandown Park (Vic.) on Saturday.
Like the Doncaster winner, he is trained by
M. T. McGrath, and George Harrison, mak-
ing his reappearance as a jockey—he has
been a trainer for some time—had the
mount; twos was the price. Taciturn, wlio
had succeeded at Epsom the previous Satur-
day did it again in the Sandow.i lark Han-
dicap Five to four in a field of three, he
settled Affirm (evens) easily; Ambassador,
the other, was lengths away.
* * * *
“Thormanby” : Who is Australia s oldest
jockey? English sporting papers are making
a fuss of Johnny Faulkner, who will notch
100 n.o. this month. Johnny rode Dusty
Miller in the famous Cesarewitch of 1857*
when George Fordham won on Prioress after
a triple dead-heat—no dividing then. He
kept going till he was 70. and took on any-
thing from hunt-club steeplechasing to
country-fair racing—the horses being taken
out of farmers’ gigs and dogcarts, ridden in a
cross-country flutter, and then harnessed up
again for the drive home.
* * * *
“Knavesmire” : The modern thoroughbred
seems to be as nervy as the modern jazz-
cwm-cocktail flapper, and to require as much
remedial attention after its exertions.
Scuttle, a Captain Cuttle filly owned by
George Hex, is expected to do big. thiDgs
in the coming classic events for ladies, in-
cluding the Thousand Guineas and the Oaks.
She had grown a little bias#, however, after
a hard two-year-old season, and it was re-
solved, acting on medical advice, to submit
her to a course of violet-ray treatment. This
was done at Newmarket, and the filly is
now said to be tremendously bucked. It may
be all right, but one wonders what such old-
time trainers as John Scott and TV
would say if they could hear of the latest
training methods. *
“Adelaide”: Clem Hill, the old inter-
national batsman, gave the J«l£a
work on his first appearance as official hanm
ranner to the chief racing club of Adeiaim.
Of nine events in an afternoon at Victoria
Park only one was won by moie tnan a
length ; six were decided by anything l orn
neck to a nose.
* * * *
“Eureka” : The most novel barrier I ever
saw on a racecours-e was used at Bowel
(MO)- the inventor was D. Miner.
A slit was made in a post on the mside of
the course, and mto this was inserted th.
end of two cross-cut saws ! n ' n J;Y 0 bo "
together. A strong piece of strm„ was
fastened to the other end . ail< j| Bie saws
were drawn across the track in f™ l
horses. When all was ready the string was
suddenly released and the saws sprang back,
taking with them the string almost instan-
taneously. It worked very effectively.
* * * *
“Amateur Urger” : They arc mighty
moralists in America —once they get; on.
It is not long since an English jockey was
refused a landing in New York °n the ground
of “moral turpitude, he having travelled in
company with a lady who was not his wife.
The latest manifestation is the action ot t.ie
Maryland Racing Association in debarring
all the horses belonging to the oil millionaire,
Sinclair, from racing, Sinclair having been
convicted of bribery in connection with the
Teapot Dome oil scandals. Evidently Mary-
land insists that all the oil in connection
with its racing must be absolutely dmkum.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
It was a business-like move for Tom
Maguire, the Newcastle trainer, to negotiate
a third match with “Tiger” Payne for his
pet heavyweight, George Thompson, for the
Sydney Stadium offertory was the best tor
months. Moreover, the crowd got liugelj
excited at periods of the “fight,’ and bar-
racked madly for Thompson when that
gentleman made ineffectual onslaughts on
the U.S. negro, the while Payne bent double
and simulated keen distress. “Tiger scaled
list. 131 b., 61b. less than when he fought
Frattini, and Thompson went 12st. lid.
The outstanding feature of the first round
was Thompson’s lead with a straight left
to a point over the heart, a butt that sent
the dusky warrior flying hard to the ropes.
The second started in a fury, and at two
minutes Thompson was sent down for nine
seconds by a fierce right to the jaw. Thomp-
son’s head lead was again in evidence m the
third, and he staged several spectacular
rallies, but he could not hurt the coon.
Payne lounged across to meet the white
man for the fourth round and allowed him-
self to be bustled to the ropes repeatedly.
Thompson came out for the fifth with a
lump under his left eye; and, in one ot
these scrambles on the north ropes, lie landed
one very low. Payne appealed, but was
bidden to fight on. In a close-up tangle he
drove a wicked little uppercut to the chin ;
George slid down and out.
.j. *j;
Melbourne Stadium staged a couple of
bouts on Saturday night. In the opening
go, a 10-rounder, Dick Flynn (9st. 101 b.)
outpointed Miller Smith (lOst. 011 b.). The
second affair was a 12-round scrap tor
heavies between Dan McLeod and Mick
Mclvay; Daniel came to judgment with a
k.o. * *
* * * *
“Mitt Shover” : Stacked up against # one
Lampe, described as a “mediocre boxer,’ m
Baltimore, Billy Grime lost on points, one
judge called it a draw, while the referee
and the other judge gave Lampe the verdict.
The fight had some peculiar features, even
for America. Grime sent his opponent down
twice in the third round, and the latter
claimed a foul. The referee obligingly stopped
the fight to allow Lampe to be examined by
a doctor; the quack’s verdict was ‘no foul,
and hostilities were resumed, the Yank natu-
rally benefiting by the spell. In his first
fight in U.S.A. Grime was knocked down
a couple of times, and was adjudged to have
lost on that account, although otherwise the
points were in his favor. In this mill Grime
did the knocking, but it made no difference.
American referees seem very hard to please.
* * * *
“Left Jab”: John Wren has offered to
back Billy McAlister to fight any bantam
in the world at Melbourne or Sydney for
£2OOO a side. Wren financed Bill Squires to
go to California and get knocked out in 15
seconds by Tommy Burns. He talked of back-
ing Billy Shade against Carpentier—what a
gift it would have been for Carpentier! He
pronounces honest little McAlister “better
than Griffo.” This makes it clear that he
never saw Griffo.
(Continued on page 41.)
A BALLADE OF WINTER SPORT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When white sails fleck the rolling sea,
Blithe yachtsmen chant their hymn ot
praise. •
Some reckless folk delight to ski
Down snowy mounts in winter days.
The bowler has his own queer ways,
And golf, though scoffers think it tame,
To Scots deep solemn joy conveys;
But football is the heroes’ game.
Once cricket held the world in fee
Though now it earns no sugared pluase.
Wrestling’s a boom, most sports agree;
It thrills an hour, but soon decays.
Bookies, who piles of shekels raise,
To all the sensual world proclaim
The Sport of Kings is one that pays;
But football is the heroes’ game.
Soon crowds will roar with frantic glee
While champions strive to win the bays.
With high marks, punts and tactics tree.
A crowded hour, a glorious blaze .
Then lo! the umpire in amaze.
Escorted off to cries of “Shame .
By gallant troopers in relays!
For'football is the heroes’ game.
Envov.
Only the man who football plays
Now enters Melbourne’s Hall of E ame.
Two-up may be a passing craze,
But football is the heroes game.
VICTORIA.
L. E.


cAustral/an
m
m
/
9
W
w
tu
L/
%
oil® Inlflfp)Ar
jV
m
m
RACKETS
The Australian Singles
and Doubles, Mixed,
and Ladies’ Singles and
Doubles Championships
were all won with
SPALDING
AUSTRALIAN
MADE
RACKETS
pR»Ct
9 • * § (AUSTRALASIA) " PTY. LTD.
(AUSTRALASIA) r PTY. LTD.
352 Kent Street, Sydney.


r
mu
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
this is the Winchester focussing flashlight.
No. 6921.—1 T USES A 3-CELL BATTERY AND
A SPECIAL MAZDA LAMP. IT HAS A
SCIENTIFICALLY DESIGNED RE-
FLECTOR AND BY SIMPLE
ADJUSTMENT OF THE
FOCUSSING RING
.
CAN BE MADE
TO THROW A
SEARCHLIGHT-
LIKE BEAM OF
BRILLIANT
WHITE LIGHT
TO A DISTANCE OF
EIGHT HUNDRED AND FIFTY FEET.
Yachtsmen, Motorists, Campers, Shooters, Surf- and Rock-Fishermen, Householders, Night Watch-
men, and a host of others will see the advantages of such a powerful light in portable form.
Supplied in full Nickel-plate or Black Metal and Nickel-plate.
No. 6921. PRICE, complete with battery, 21/- Post Free.
Write for Special Illustrated, “TORCH” Catalogue.
(The Oldest-established Gunmalcers in Australia),
458 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
COWLES & DUNN
Footbrawl
“Gate”: The English League team which
will shortly be in Sydney has fairly succeeded
in imposing its will on its Australian adver-
saries. The latter will not be allowed to
play the game after their own fashion and
according to local custom, as is the almost
invariable rule for the home side. English
rules long abandoned here will have to be
reverted to. Chief of these are the rule
relating to hooking the ball in the scrum and
that governing the re-starting of play after
a force in goal. The Australian practice has
been for the hooker to use the outside leg
only, which minimises the jamming of the
ball ’in the scrums; and, in the case of a
force occurring, the ball must be kicked out
by the side forcing the ball from the goal
line, a just penalty being thus inflicted on
the defenders. The old rule which permits
the kicking of the ball out from the 25-yard
line, thus penalising the attackers, is in-
sisted on by the Englishmen, and they have
had their way, as usual. If the local Leagues
ever need a slogan, the writer respectfully
suggests “Please Kick Me.”
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Gordon Shaw, manager of
the Waratahs, gave the large audience which
attended the civic welcome home to the
team a hint as to how some of them might
repay individual members of the side for the
good service which their play and conduct
have done for this country in Europe. lie
mentioned that several of them had given up
their billets to make the trip, and suggested
forcefully that anyone in a position to help
should think of the returned travellers and
give them a first chance.
* * * *
“Loose Head”: One of the most gratifying
features of the Waratahs’ tour was the suc-
cess of S. Malcolm, the Newcastle scrum-
half. who developed into a first-class man in
this tricky position. Newcastle, once a strong
centre of the Union game, held grimly on
to it in the days of its decline, in spite of
much opposition from the Rugby League
and Soccer. Malcolm’s success should help
the old code in the coal city, as an example
of the prizes that lie in wait for the suc-
cessful Union player, even if there is no
cash in the game.
s|s sjs 2js
“Hotliam”: If anything were wanting to
prove the hold that Australian football lias
on the Melbourne and Geelong public, the
increasing number of membership tickets dis-
posed of by League clubs should set all doubts
at rest. In 1923 36,358 tickets were sold,
and the total rose gradually to 45,174 in
1926, when Footscray, North Melbourne and
Hawthorn clubs deserted the Association
for the League. Last year, a tight one
financially, the figures dropped to 44,431,
but this season the demand to date has been
so heavy that 50,000' may be exceeded. The
tabulated figures give an interesting in-
sight into the changing popularity of some
of the clubs as their competition fortunes
wax or wane. Carlton and Geelong fol-
lowers have been the most consistent over
the last five years, the Dark Blues heading
the list with 7200 ticket-holders last year.
Geelong, which had put up the record total
of 8114 for 1926, slumped last year to 5904.
Essen don was third on the 1927 list with
5265 and South Melbourne fourth with 4441.
*.* * *
“Hawthorn”: The feud between the Vic-
torian Football League and Association still
rages. The other night at a meeting of the
Association a desperate attempt was made
to secure affiliation with the League. The
voting was 10 all, and the chairman gave
his casting vote against affiliation, so that
little dream has been dropped for the time
being. In the meantime, the League goes
merrily on its way “ratting” Association
players, as one member of the latter put it,
while refusing to listen to any suggestion as
to reciprocity in the matter of clearances.
The absorption of the Association by its
successful rival seems only a' matter of time.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: April 21 will see the final
of the British Association Cup, the most
famous trophy in Soccer football. The Cup
will be played for at Wembley Stadium, and
the event will take on all its old atmos-
phere, for two of the North Country teams
which for so long monopolised it will battle
for the sacred trophy. Last year was one
of gloom and fasting in Lancashire and the
North generally, for the Cup was actually
won by a Welsh combination. This year
the battle will lie between Huddersfield
Town, a Tyke team, and the Blackburn
Rovers, oldest and most renowned of Eng-
lish professional Soccer teams. Huddersfield,
which is a mere mushroom growth, got into
the final in 1919-20, but was beaten by
Aston Villa. The Rovers have won the Cup
six times, beginning in 1883-84, and if they
collect it this time will have put up a record.
The Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: Roy Kilner. the. jovial
Yorkshire pro. who was here with Gilligan s
team, died last week in England of enteric,
following on a coaching engagement m
India, lie was only 37. A good all-rounder,
Roy did not quite fulfil expectations on
Australian wickets, though once or twice,
when he found a wicket that would do
something, as in the third Test in Ade -
aide, he lived up to his reputation. In that
match lie got 4 for 127 in the first Aus-
tralian innings, doing all the bowling in com-
pany with Woolley, and in the second took
4 for 51. His most successful showing was
5 for 48 and 5 for 18 against Victoria. VV ith
the bat he averaged 25.80 for 5 innings in
the Tests, while in these he took 17 wickets
at 23.41.
* * * *
The second Test match between the Aus-
tralian XI. and Maoriland resulted in a
victory for the tourists. Dunedin was
the venue, and the Maorilanders chose to bat
on what seemed a good wicket. The open-
ing batsmen made a fair start, but when
four wickets had gone for 121 the side col-
lapsed, the total being 103, which included
24 sundries. Blunt contributed a sound 50;
Grimmett took 6 for 47 and Oxenham 3 for
30. Australia didn’t do much better, going
for 188; most of the damage was done by
McGirr, who took 4 for 54. Ponsford and
Woodfull both failed, and hut for Oxenham
(46 n. 0.) and Grimniett (34) the score
would have looked very sick. Blackie took
a turn in Maoriland’s second knock and col-
lected 5 for 27. Grimniett adding three
wickets to his tally. The required runs were
made for Australia for the loss of three
wickets, Woodfull getting 45 n.o.
* * * *
“Mid Leg” : The Australian Eleven aver-
ages in Maoriland show our leading batsmen
deteriorating little on inferior wickets.
Woodfull batted 14 times, including four
not outs, for 86.4, much of his total having
been amassed in one big score of 284. Pons-
ford, with 15 knocks and one not out, had
the highest aggregate, 915, and an average
of 62.45—quite a pup for him. Then comes
HE’D BEEN THERE BEFORE.
FISTIERMAN (to amateur lifesaver ): “Take my .tip, and put it back before you get
stung.”
Jackson with 47.4, followed by Schneider
with 45.48. Kippax and Richardson are
in the 30’s, while Don Blackie whips in with
8. Grimmett took 74 wickets at 13.85,
Blackie being next with 38 wickets at 15.68.
Fast-bowler Morton secured 31 at 15.16>
and McNamee 23 at 16.96 runs.
* * * *
“B-Gar” : Queer cricket pitches (B.
21/3/’2B) ? During the absence of the
boss from a shearing shed a few miles out
from Cunnamulla (S.Q.) the shearers and
rouseabouts took a bale of new woolpacks,
cut them into strips and, picking a level
place, pegged the pieces of packs down for
matting. The boss going sour on his return,
a ss. levy was struck. It was money well
spent, as after the shearing the rouseabouts
used the strips as “waggers.”
Racquet and Bawl
“Dr. Mussolini”: Last week’s cables in-
formed us that the Italian team which is to
meet the Australian side in the first round of
the Davis Cup early next month has been
got together, and allotted to its various jobs.
The singles will be taken by De Morpugo and
I)e Stefani, while De Morpugo and Gaslini
will represent Italy against our lads in the
doubles. Gaslini, who doesn’t use the back-
hand, but changes his racket from left liana
to right as occasion requires, promises to
be a disconcerting proposition until Gerald
Patterson and co. get his measure.
* * * *
“Boronia”: Cricket pitches made from
white-ant mounds C‘L.O.,” B. 21/3/’2B) are
common in many country districts; in the
Westralian wheat belt, where the large dome-
like homes of the termites are plentiful, most
of the tennis-courts are made from this
material. Properly mixed and laid to a
depth of three or four inches, it provides a
smooth, hard surface. It never cracks and
will stand up to years of solid wear. Ike
mounds used from heavy clay country give
the best results.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: It was a cold day for South
Aust. tennis when Rowe and Hone were
deputed to help Moon and Cummings (Q.)
on their way to Wimbledon by an exhibition
match. The local lads, who had both won
against the Frenchmen, were outplayed.
Rowe’s straight returns were of little use
against .Cummings, who was always aiming
for side-lines, besides hitting much harder;
6-2, 8-6. Hone’s service kept him going
against Moon, who worked hard to win 6-4,
8-6. The South Australians, who have little
experience of playing together, started well,
but tired, and were often caught out of posi-
tion ; Queensland won 7-5, 4-6, 6-0, 64.
Moon’s service showed up here; it is not
spectacular, but about five serves generally
ended the game.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur” : Wallis Myers has been
having a go at the English L.T.A. over its
threats to cancel the entries of any player,
British or not, who writes tennis for the
press, or otherwise comments on the game in
public for cash, this being declared an act
of professionalism. Myers quite correctly
points out that the L.T.A. has no jurisdiction
over players whose own associations do not
regard such practices as professionalism.
While it may refuse such entries on the
ground that its domestic regulations are being
broken, it has no power to “de-amateurise”
any such player as long as he or she does
not break the rules of his or her association.
The action of the L.T.A. is well advised from
many points of view, but its attempt to
assume penal rights over players from other
countries where communicating with the
press is permitted is one which has no justi-
fication.
%. * * *
“Top Spin” : One of the best series of inter-
state tennis matches that Sydney has seen
for some time will begin at the Rushcutter
Bay courts on April 27 and continue to May
5. when the finals will be played. The 18
events cover all descriptions of matches
for both men and women players, as well as
championships for school-boys and -girls and
for boy and girl juniors. The actual inter-
state matches will be played on Friday and
Saturday, April 27 and 28. For once in a
way a South Aus. team will be seen on this
side, in addition to the usual meeting of Vic-
toria and N.S.W. Queensland, a regular
attendant, will also be represented.
The Nineteenth Hole
“The MeMug”: Dr. Mackenzie has such
a world-wide renown as a designer of golf
courses that it ill becomes a neophyte who
has been playing a mere 40 years or so to
object to his theories. Still, I feel con-
strained to join issue with him in regard to
some recent remarks. He is a Scotchman,
like myself, and therefore not to be suspected
of an undue sense of humor. Yet when he
told an American interviewer that ‘ one ot
the objects in placing hazards was to give
the players as much pleasurable excitement
as possible” lie spoke out of liis turn, in the
opinion of myself and 90 per cent, of all the
world’s "population now affected by the goll
mania. Not that any one of us will admit
that the prospect of any hazard additional
to the ordinary routine of the game dismays
us. The fact remains that it does, and the
doctor’s proclivity for travelling all over
the world and making golf courses more
difficult for all but the plus players lias
caused countless thousands to mourn the day
he decided to give up medicine in favor of
making the links harder for mugocracy.
* * * *
“Claypan” : A Bulletin writer once told
how the wife of a golf maniac who was try-
ing to improve his putting by wearing
special harness snatched the putter from
his hand and proceeded to sink putts,
off-hand, from all angles and distances.
Women are like that. They approach
the ' most sacred observances with a
callously carefree attitude and get away
with it every time. Consider the case ot
Mrs. Yerrey in the associates’ competition
at Yeerongpilly club, Brisbane, the other day.
The lady won the putting competition, get-
ting the cup nine times out of 13 attempts.
Five of these were got in 1 each. If a male
member achieved such a feat he would cele-
brate the occasion in the orthodox fashion
and boast of it —also in the orthodox
fashion —for the term of his natural life. It
is good betting that the lady will have for-
gotten all about it the moment the latest
thing in hats catches her eye.
* ❖ * *
“Ploughman” : Australians who reckon Joe
Kirkwood the best golfer Australia has pro-
duced were cheered to hear that he had
given up “circus” golf and taken to tackling
the game in a serious vein. His performance
in running into third place in the big open
tournament at Miami, when he finished ahead
of such stars as ’Gene Sarazen, tended to con-
firm the story, and hopes of high performance
in the American open were entertained. Later
advices indicate that Joe, now an American
citizen, prefers to go where the money .is.
He is touring the country, after the fashion
popular in America, accepting engagements
from clubs. He plays a round or two with
the club professional, shows off a number
of the trick shots for which he is so famous
and which have led him from the strait and
narrow path of the game, and finishes up
with a lecture. He is accumulating vast
quantities of shekels, by all. accounts, but
bite wonders whether, sometimes, to para-
phrase Henry Lawson, the thought of what
he “might have been and isn’t” in the world
of golf doesn’t ’’come along and trouble
him.”
* * * *
“Colonel Damurize” : It has always seemed
to me that golf is something like the fox
in the old hunting song—“ Though we all wish
to kill him, we love him.” I have found
it impossible to avoid animadverting upon
some aspects of the obsession, as these have
affected myself, but I would shrink from
saying the things attributed to the Prime
Minister the other day. If he was correctly
reported is Quite likely that, after the
manner of his kind, he will allege that this
was not the case —he told an audience at
the opening of the Woodlands (Vic.) Golf
Club’s new Nineteenth that the introduction
of golf to Canberra promised to make the
Federal politicians immortal, and that he
did not think any of those now at Canberra
were likely to expire by effluxion of time,. or
in any other way, because of its revivifying
influences. If I thought that the Royal and
Accursed Game carried its fatal influences
to that extent, I should renounce it for ever
and apply for the vice-presidency of the local
Ludo club.
* * * *
“Admiral Blowmetight”: If the latest
craze in American golfing circles is to become
general, the way of the old-fashioned player
promises to become even harder than it. is
to-day. The new idea consists in fl y ing
slowly round the course in an aeroplane,
this being supposed to familiarise the obser-
ver with peculiarities not observable to the
groundling. Having gained this information
the golfer, it is claimed, will find his game
improved by several strokes. Of course it
was a woman who invented the high-flown
notion; the lady asserts that whereas she
could never break 80 on her home course
before the light flashed upon her, she can
now do it “on her head” at several strokes
less. The prospect of a stout associate-
member dropping on one’s head is enough to
put any harassed male golfer off his game.
(Continued on next page.)


tIQUEUB
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow
Shipped by
WM. GRANT & SONS. LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm of Scotch Whisky Distillers.
VICHY
mMM
SHm
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Car and Cycle
“Chevroford” : Tlie 100-mile light-car race
on Phillip Island (Vic.) was the first of its
kind in Australia, and that fact was re-
flected in the cautious deportment of most
of the drivers. Nobody seemed to be quite
certain how fast a little kerosene-tin on
wheels could take Hell’s Corner without
turning a somersault and lauding with its
legs in the air. Nevertheless, some astonish-
ing times were registered. The event with
the most thrills in it was the race between
four Baby Austins for the C. B. Kellow
Cup, L. A. Waite securing the fastest time
with Ihr. 46min. 40sec. The fastest laps
went to A. G. Terdich in a Bugatti. Some
of them were covered at the astonishing
speed of 70 m.p.li.
:J: ❖ *
“Coil" : Norman Smith, who recently put
up a string of new Australian speed records
on the Lake Perkolili track (IV.A.), has
capped this performance by establishing new
figures for the Fremantle-to-Sydney run —
some 3000 miles. The distance was covered
in 4 days lOhr. 43min., an improvement
of 12hr. 23min. on the previous figures and
a trifle better than mail-train time across
the same route. New intermediate records
were also established between, Fremantle
and Adelaide and Fremantle and Melbourne.
The car (used also in the Perkolili perform-
ance) was a Commander sports roadster
Studebaker, and Smith was accompanied by
E. Poole and G. Binerson as mechanic and
relief driver respectively.
ill * * fc
“Brooklands”: Westralia’s ideal natural
speedway, the dried-up lake-bed of Perkolili
< B. 21/3/’2S). was used as a bike track long
before the advent of the motor-ear. It has
only one serious rival of its kind, and that
is Fogarty's Claypan on the road from Ood-
nadatta to Alice Springs. Last year a
motoring party under the leadership of A. G.
Bond tested the Claypan while en route to
the Springs, and pronounced it even faster
than Perkolili. It is a bit remote for crowd-
drawing purposes, but that could be reme-
died.
“Smash” : The Melbourne-to-Syduey motor
record mania continues to rage unabated.
The latest heroes are L. Harris and C.
Wetherby. who covered the distance, 565
miles, in 14hr. 35min.. in a Matchless side-
car. This is 2hr. 34|min. better than the
previous side-car record held by G. Dutton,
while Benstead’s 14hr. 43min. for a solo
attempt, which has stood for five years, was
beaten by 8 minutes.
■J.: ijs s|l
“Coroner” : The practice of driving at ex-
cessive speeds over main roads in attempts
to lower records was mentioned at a recent
meeting of the N.S.W. Shires’ Association.
It was decided to take action to stop the
dangerous business, and the Government is
to be asked to decree that Ministerial per-
mission will have to be a condition prece-
dent to any future attempt on a record.
Something of the sort is necessary. It is little
short of a miracle that no serious accident
has occurred on the highroad between Mel-
bourne and Sydney, and steady-going motor-
ists, as well as horse-drivers and foot-sloggers,
would like to see the hazardous game
stopped.
=!: * *
“Methuselah II.” : Someone has been writ-
ing to the Sydney dailies about the daddy
of all reliability trials and road motor records
in Australia. The machine, probably the
first that ever ran in this country, was de-
signed and built in Melbourne, and was
steam-driven; it was known as the Thomson
car, after its originator. The car ran the
estimated 493 miles from Bathurst t<T Mel-
bourne in 58hr. Omin., averaging Si yn.p.h.
The motor, a 2-cylinder affair (the cylinders
being of different diameters), could develop
up to 5 h.p., and burned kerosene as fuel for
the boiler, carrying enough to run 150 miles
without replenishment.
Miscellaneous
“Hotham”: The Victorian Olympic autho-
rities, like those in N.S.W., are having
trouble in raising the State quota of the
fund to send the Olympic team to Amster-
dam. The swimming heads are trying to do
their bit by inviting Andrew Charlton. Edna
Davey and Bonnie Mealing to appear at a
special carnival in Melbourne during the
last week in April. The Victorians will
pay all expenses, and, as the swimmers
could leave Sydney on Friday and be back
by Monday morning, there is no great diffi-
culty for the N.S.W. contingent to face.
The visit would be a big draw for the
Olympic fund, for Melbourne is keen on
seeing Charlton in action.
:{c * H* #
“Splash” : The Sydney flapper press broke
out into the usual rash of headlines when it
was announced that another young female,
Bonnie Mealing in fact, was to be sent to
represent Australia’s manhood at the Ams-
terdam Olympiad. The little girl is an ex-
cellent backstroke swimmer for her age, but
there are very few backstroke swimmers in
these parts; and in her only race against
an acknowledged first-rater —Ena Stockley,
of Maoriland —she failed. Certainly her
newspaper barrackers assert that “she would
have won by a street if she hadn’t bored
out,” but a Melbourne paper of repute with
no axe to grind stated that the older girl
had a clear lead when Bonnie hit the ropes ;
and usually it is a beaten horse that runs
out wide. The little damsel has recorded
capital times, mostly when paced by an elder
sister, but to rely on time trials without tak-
ing into consideration half a dozen other
factors is folly. Many a horse fails to get
witliin seconds of his track times in actual
races, and the same is true of human contes-
tants, whether they be track runners, swim-
mers, or a dozen other varieties of athletes.
Temperament or inexperience bottles them up
as soon as they have to get down to the real
business of stiff competition.
* * * *
“Splosh”: Some of the Sydney newspapers
will be glad to hear that still another female
swimmer has put up one of those world's re-
cords that are flying round so promiscuously
just now. She can’t be quite in the flapper
stage, since she is described as “Mrs.,” but
one can npver tell nowadays. The lady’s
name is Lottie Moore Schoemmel, and she
comes from New York, where happen all
the astonishing things that don’t occur in
Chicago. She remained afloat for 112 hours,
and thus defeated Miss Edith Johnson, of
England, who had held the previous world’s
best of 31 hours. What purpose was served,
or what guerdon was gained, is not stated.
There is some concrete satisfaction in win-
ning a pie-eating contest, or even a gum-
chewing marathon, but as for floating in
the water for 32 hours —what is there in
it? Any frog could do as much on his
head.
* * * *
“Stretcher”: The interstate eight-oar
race to be rowed on the Nepean (N.S.W.)
on May 5 will mark the jubilee of the N.S.W.
Bowing - Association as well as that of the
race itself. Since the war the King’s Cup,
won on the Thames in 1919 by the A.I.E.
crew, has been attached to the affair as a
trophy; at present it is held by Westralia.
The Westralians have boated most of last
year’s crew, and expect to win again. Last
year it was claimed that the rough water in
the Derwent and their luck in keeping afloat
while other crews swamped brought them
the victory. That question can safely be
settled on the Nepean, which is sheltered
from all the winds that blow.
* i\i 5jC A-
“Blade” : The only overseas oarsman in
the Oxford-Cambridge boatraee this year was
H. C. Morphett, sometime of Geelong Gram-
mar, who rowed four in the Oxford boat.
Writing to the London Times, J. W. H.
Fremantle, a famous ’Varsity oarsman of
half a dozen years ago, throws a special bou-
quet at the lad from Sleepy Hollow, whom
he describes as “a polished oarsman, with
DUDLEY SMITH, the A.J.C.’s judge, who
has had a heavy job placing ’em during
the Easter meeting at Randwick.
that distinctive smoothness of action that is
characteristic of the Australians.” This is
a distinct reversal of the usual British opin-
ion that, while they may be hefty enough
in a mere beefy sense, “colonial” oarsmen are
simply not in it with the Briton when it
comes to style, y’ know.
❖ ❖ :J: *
“The Gaffer”: Carlton, the Australian
Olympic sprint representative, was clocked
to run 300 yards at Camden (N.S.W.) in
9 9-lOsec.. and the course, on remeasurement,
was found to be some inches over the 100. I
have my doubts about the time, fine runner
though the lad is, for Stuart, another Olympic
candidate, failed to win a 440 handicap
under 5745ec.; in the State championship
at Manly"(N S.W.) he cut the distance out
in 50 l-ssec. Apart from this questionable
achievement, Carlton has never yet beaten the
lOsec. over the 100; on the other hand, he
has cracked evens in the 220 more than
once. Of the men he will have to meet at
Amsterdam, nearly all will have broken
evens over the 100 metres, but few have
done the same for the 200. Abrahams, the
Englishman, has advised Carlton to concen-
trate on one run, and has offered to coach
him for it. If Carlton is willing, the 200
is the race he should pick.
* * * *
“Lepper” : There was general disappoint-
ment among N.S.W. athletes when Nick
Winter, after a long spell away from the
GORDON SHAW, manager of the
Waratahs, and a strong factor in the
success of the tour.
tracks, failed to reproduce his 1924 Olympic
form in the hop, step and jump event at
the State championships ; at Paris he broke
the world’s record with 50ft. 113-16 in.
Winter was passed over by the Olympic
selectors, but a couple of weeks later lie
put up another remarkable performance at
Camden (N.S.W.), when he covered 48ft.
Sin. This is good enough to win in any
company, and there is a strong feeling that
Winter’s claims should be reconsidered, even
if a flapper swimmer or two have to stay
at home. Winter was the last man picked
for the Paris team and the only track
athlete to win.
* * * *
“Toucher”: As to that argument about the
bowls standard (B. 4/4/’2B), the trouble
arises from inter-State jealousy. The N.S.W.
association adopted a master bowl which
complied exactly with the requirements of the
rules as to weight, size and bias, and the
N.S.W. delegates to the Bowling Council
sought to have it adopted as the universal
bowl. The Queensland and Victorian dele-
gates vetoed the proposal and got a resolu-
tion passed that the N.S.W. bowl should be
altered to correspond with those adopted by
Queensland and Victoria. Some thousands
of “straight” bowls, made in Victoria, are
now in: use in that State and Queensland.
The adoption of the N.S.W. standard bowl
would mean that all . these woods would
have to be adjusted, at the owners’ expense,
of course. This fact influenced the A.8.C.,
but its decision will only aggravate the situa-
tion.
* * * *
“Leader” : There has been a discussion in
England on the bowling temperament. It
was contended —by bowlers —that all the
qualities that marked Wellington at Water-
loo are required in the bowler, and especially
in the last player when the end is against
his side. The truth is that bowlers, like
other athletes, run in all shapes. Some I have
met could be as volcanic in time of trouble
as any imported wrestler or operatic star.
I recall one venerable old gentleman who,
at the end of a close game for a watch-
chain set of medals, converted his own side’s
winning head into one which gave the enemy
the victory with his last disastrous shot.
Ilis language transcended the brightest
fancies of bullock-drivers and English Ad-
mirals; and he threw his liat after the
offending bowl, grabbed the mat and hurled
it in the direction of the hat. Attempts to
mollify him failed, and he banged his bowls
savagely into his bag, announcing, as he
left the green, that he was going straight
home to chop the blanky things up for fire-
w r ood.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Garbut”: I recently saw an agent's
return for 20 bushel-cases of good apples;
the cheque was for £1 Os. Sd., aud after
deducting the cost of cases the grower found
himself with a return of Id. for picking,
packing, carting and the apples. If the day
ever comes when the city worker finds 9d.
in his weekly pay envelope with a note from
the boss explaining that there has been a
glut of work during the week the drift back
to the country may begin.
* :5 * *
“Graeme” : Sydney .Chamber of Commerce
originated 102 years ago with a letter by
Edward Wollstonecraft to the Governor, Sir
Ralph Darling. The letter “respectfully
hoped for recognition of the .Institution and
the General Design, persuaded as we are of
the necessity for such an Establishment.
The Governor’s approval, received by re-
turn, has ever since been regarded as the
charter of the chamber.
s|e :|! *
“Bumpkin”: The primitive operation of
chipping the scale off ships’ sides will soon
be as dead as the Soviet disarmament plan.
The Sandblom machine scaler, which, despite
its name, is all-British, does the job in a
quarter of the time, with a tenth of the din,
and without giving a steamer’s Hanks the
appearance afterwards of having been smitten
with smallpox. It is merely a blunt tool
rapidly turned by electricity. No seaman
will regret the innovation —the old method is
as cordially hated in the fo’c’s’le as holy-
stoning.
* * *
“H.H.” : The Launceston Marine Board has
spent a good many thousand pounds in erect-
ing at Bell Bay wharves and sheds for the
use of shipping, but oversea boats have lately
been loading wool and apples at Beauty
Point in preference to utilising the east
side of the river. The only reason given
is that the local branch of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation has its headquarters at
Beauty Point and refuses to handle cargo
on the other side of the river. While the
silly argument is being continued one boat
has taken her cargo across to Melbourne
and had it transhipped; others have been
delayed. And the people of Northern Tas-
mania are paying interest on the cost of
wharves, sheds and a water supply that are
all lying idle.
* * =>
“B-Gar”: The farmers on the Atherton
tableland (N.Q.) have seen that the threat-
ened glut in the maize market is likely to
be disastrous, and they have made a ship-
ment of 3000 tons from Cairns to London.
As f.a.q. at the last London sales was
quoted at 9s. to 9s. 6d. per cwt., the net
return should at least equalise if not better
the 3s. per bushel quoted here. The storage
of maize until the market improves reads
well on paper, but how many farmers can
hang on without a cheque? They arc few
and far between on the Atherton tableland,
as a big percentage of them are returned
Diggers.
* * *
“Erua”: Maoriland has put up a lot of
records, but it is anything but proud of
the latest thrust upon it by the underwriters,
who state that the per capita fire loss of the
Dominion is the heaviest in the world. Sev-
eral remedies have been suggested, the most
favored being a compulsory inquiry after the
Queensland pattern, instead of the optional
inquest permitted by the M.L. Fire Boards
Act, in which the board has to stand the
cost of proceedings. The big percentage of
fires in Maoriland is, as in Queensland,
largely accounted for by the almost univer-
sal use of wood for home building, and,
except in the cities, for general construction
purposes. In a dry season the M.L. wood
buildings flare up with appalling rapidity,
and a puff of wind is liable to eliminate a
whole suburban street.
* * * #
“Elgar”: “R.B.D.’s” complaint (B.
29/2/’2B) that, though he lives almost under
the Yallourn electric transmission wires, he
can’t get the current, might be levelled at
almost every public utility in the Cabbage
Garden; it arises, I think, from the habit of
appointing city men to run these things. The
Metropolitan Board of Works, the State
Rivers and Water Supply Commission, and
various water and lighting trusts are all the
same. I know dozens of men on the land living
close to wires and right alongside reservoirs
who would use thousands of gallons of water
and thousands of units of power if they were
allowed, but who have to sit and see water
and current go past their doors to serve the
occupiers of pussy little building blocks 20
or 100 miles away. In such matters private
enterprise would rush to serve the largest
customer at the least expense, whereas State
socialism, as we practise it, considers votes
as more important than divvies.


yktyuMwifm6,
that turned FRICTIONimFICTION
R|M
MADE INjy ENGLAND
BALL and ROLLER
bearings
THE success that has attended the de-
signers and manufacturers of these
British Bearings is reflected in the
constant improvements in automobile
engines. Complete protection against
friction, thrust and shock has resulted in
smoother running, more economical and
longer-lived cars.
So reliable and durable have R. 6c M.
Bearings proved themselves for Automo-
bile application that they are used by 80
per cent, of British Motor-car Manufac-
turers.
The monster I 000-h.p. Sunbeam Car, now
in. Australia, in which Major Segrave
attained the phenomenal speed of 203
m.p.h., is fitted throughout with R. 6c M.
British Bearings.
Insist on R. 6c M. Bearings British and
Best.
Exclusive Commonwealth Agents and Distributors:-
GARDNER, WAERN 8 CO. PTY., LTD.
MELBOURNE: 481 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: Hunter Street West.
S. AUS. AGENTS: ADELAIDE HARDWARE CO.,
LTD., Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
TASMANIAN AGENTS: W. & G. GENDERS TTY.,
LTD., lIOBART and LAUNCESTON.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO.,
LTD., BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE.
W. AUS. AGENTS (Automotive):
COVENTRY MOTOR CO.,
LTD., PERTH.
(Industrial) : FLOWER, DAVIES
AND JOHNSON. LTD.. PERTH.
&
&
V
Rif If 1
•V
re
W,
•■ x ,‘9«> 7
■* "-.^S>’')
r
<-'ik i'itip
FACAN
<*>NNSTON
' }■
m
Adjusted in a moment
and what a tremendous saving in time and
trouble.
When roads are sandy, wet, soft, muddy or
boggy,you should put on WEED TYRE CHAINS.
They provide the traction —“grip on the road”
—so imperatively needed, and thus prevent loss
of power, delays and possible serious accident
from skidding.
Weed Tyre Chains are made for all tyres.
They are easily identified by their brass-plated,
hardened steel cross chains —galvanized side
chains—and red lever-locking connecting hooks
with the name “WEED” stamped on them.
eo
WEED TYRE CHAINS
Standard of quality for over a quarter of a century
Order from your dealer
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
1499
s
m
$
m
A
F>W
Audels AuOELS
CARPEtntRS C ARPE? nfRS
AND AND I
Builder Buildups
6 U ' 0C , Guide
: 2 i 3 l
Audels *
Carpenter
_ AND
Builders
b^
G^° v
Guide i
l I
'
G
C
\
5
\ -V V. •
: ,:&k K
; BUlLOERSl HOUSl-
W<\THfMAT!C$ 1 and
drawing’ t
P*l,AN-S . ;
fLAYIKCOW 1 ’
i CSTiMATLS fDUNOATtOK 5
■•- *
tools
STEEL
Square
Sav//iLinc
joinery
f WRNcr0HC,
fSkfr ■ ' ' V.-
w 6
p>sw'
•O'
THE SET OF 4 VOLS
Price 30 j-
POST
FREE.
QUICK
REFERENCE
8 aiv filing?
Steel Square?
Rafters?
Any question in-
stantly answered
by the quiclc-refer-
ence index. Th e
course is progress-
ive, but the index
gives immediate
ansivers.
Inside Trade Information for Carpenters,
Builders, Joiners, Building Mechanics and all
Woodworkers on—Care and Use of Tools,
How to Use the Steel Square, File Saws,
Make All Kinds of joints, Draw and Read
Plans, Write Specifications, Make Estimates,
How to Frame Roofs and Houses, Lay Out
Work, Put in Foundations, Full Instructions
on In and Outside Building Work, Stair
Building, Sawmill Work, Practical Painting.
Short cuts that save time and money- —in-
formation usually obtained only oy hard
experience.
Audels Carpenters and Builders’ Guides have 1600 pages 3 700 trade
illustrations. These Guides solve trade problems, eliminate miotakes,
answer questions, saving you time, money and labor.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
THE BEST HOUSE FOR TECHNICAL BOOKS,
BOOKSTALL CORNER,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
dsf
WHAT KIND OF RUBBER IS IN U.J.ROYAL CORDS
Pure rubber tapped
from the 10,000,000
rubber trees of the
U.S. Rubber Com-
pany by the 20,000
workers employed
by the builders of
the U.S. ROYAL
CORDS, is the
"plenty of rubber”
asset which makes
ROYAL CORD
the hardest tyre in
motordom to wear
out.
5^
a
m
sdf
PLENTY OF
RUBBER
There is no "skimping” of materials, no
"scamping” of workmanship in the
building of ROYAL CORDS. The U.S.
Rubber Company is never "short” of
rubber. It uses it unsparin ' in every
stage of ROYAL CORD construction.
By an exclusive process, even the web
cord fabric is impregnated with pure
rubber latex. Any wonder that the
ROYAL CORD gives you more for your
money?
U.S.ROYAL CORDS
DISTRIBUTORS:
United States Rubber Co. (A/sia), Ltd., 439 Kent St.. Sydney.—Tel. M 2031 (4 lines)
United States Rubber Co. (A/sia), Ltd., 102 Victoria St.. Carlton, Melbourne.—
Tel. F 5783, F 5784.
United States Rubber Co. (A/sia), Ltd., 11l Margaret St., Brisbane.—Tel. 4200.
United States Rubber Co (A/sia), Ltd, 195 Flinders St., Adelaide.—
Tel. 6246.
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., 954 Hay St., Perth.—Tel. A 3151 (4 lines).
Australian Automotive Agencies, Ltd., Townsville. —
Tel. Central 980.


£3OOO Diamond
has aroused great interest in Melbourne. On view in one of
Catanach s Royal Arcade Windows, this magnificent Gem
weighs 1 2 carats and is unquestionably the finest Diamond in
Australia. The illustration on the right is actual size.
WRITE FOR CATANACH’S DIAMOND RING CATALOG.
sdf
Comer Royal Arcade and Little Collins Street,
Melbourne Cl Victoria
KO/,
V
Note These Values in
CATANACH RINGS
A Written Guarantee with Each
24,839 —Fashion-
able 7-Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold
and Platinum
Settings,
£2O.
-Sg itfiS
24,845 —All-Plati-
num Square Clus-
ter, set with fine
quality, double-cut
Brilliant Diamonds,
from
£27/10/-
24,826 —4 Fine
Diamonds, 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Settings,
£25.
24,851 —All-Plati-
num Solitaire
Ring, set with fine
Brilliant Diamond,
from
£3O.
Melbourne
Chatter
Gladys Moncrieff found when she. put back
here with her husband Tom Moore last week
that she had not been dethroned in the
hearts of her admirers. Gallery girls formed
a queue on the wharf an hour or two before
the Moldavia arrived, and led a regular
first-night stampede up the gangway carry-
ing a banner inscribed “Welcome to our
Gladys” and loads of flowers. Later at the
Hotel Windsor Miss Moncrieff was enter-
tained at luncheon by the Fuller firm. The
leading lady of “Rio Rita” looked well in
a black and white ensemble suit, the coat
having furnishings of white fur, topped by
a black felt hat. Cecil Beveridge, manager of
the Princess Theatre, did the honors with
his wife, whose fairness was set off by a
black satin frock and millinery. Minister
for Education Lemmon proposed Miss Mon-
crieff’s health, and General Monash returned
thanks to the Fullers for their hospitality.
Around the board were Mrs. Lemmon, Mrs.
Arnold Westley, with a large crimson hat
above a beige lace frock; Mrs. David Bell,
Betty Ross Clarke, clad in rose-pink with a
black picture hat; Mrs. Moore, senr., Mrs.
M. Snider, Lizette Bcntwitch and Mrs. F.
W. Thring.
Mrs. Monty Grover, as president and or-
ganiser of a dance at Bibrop’s to aid the
Collingwood Creche, flitted around in a frock
of foxglove mauve with sparkling em-
broidery. Her first lieutenant, Mrs. Russell
Martin, sported a frock of pale-gold hue with
rainbow glitters; and Margot Best checked
tickets in a gown of blue powdered with
silver. Among the dancers were Mrs. Ivan
Gutmann • Mrs. J. L. Stein, whose gown of
crimson and gold shot lam 6 had feather
trimmings; the W. Pulteney Mein couple
and their pretty daughter Phyllis; and Ray
Moss in apparel of filmy black lace. John
Longstaff, who likes to jazz, was there; and
Mrs. Jim Angus brought with her a pretty
cousin from Adelaide, Anne Cochrane, who
was clad in reseda green. Mrs. Rogers
Thomson, who was with her son Keith, dis-
played a jewelled liip-buckle that gleamed
amid folds of black lace. A bevy of charm-
ingly frocked girls added to the profits by
the sale of balloons and other trifles.
Mrs. C. Howard, who has been improving
her health by a stay in this city, said fare-
well to her many friends at a luncheon
party at Menzies’ before taking ship for the
Cold Country. Covers were laid for 25 at a
table blooming witli golden cactus-dahlias,
and a presentation posy smiled into the face
of each guest. The hostess clothed her many
inches in black georgette garnished with
panne motifs, and wore some gleaming
jewels. Clusters of natural pearls clung to
the crown of her black felt hat. The guests
included Mrs. Leslie Stuart, Mrs. Newbrig-
gen, Mrs. Sampson, from Ceylon, with an
aunt; Leslie Macdonald’s wife, blooming with
renewed health discovered, abroad ; Mrs. Guy
Madden and Nancy Madden. Invitations to
visit the new seaside home Mrs. Howard is
building on Beck’s Hill, near Brighton, Eng-
land, were scattered at leave-taking amongst
members of the company booked for future,
sailings.
Woodlands Golf Club lost its club-house on
the links at Mordiallac by fire a year ago,
and Priminister Bruce, who is very strong
on golf, recently introduced to the members
the phoenix that has arisen from the ashes.
The P.M. drove the first ball off the home
tee, Mrs. Bruce broke out the house flag, and
Mrs. W. Catanach, wife of the president of
the club, ran up the pennant. Then there
was tea and talk, and the premises were
inspected and found to be extremely com-
fortable.
The British Music Society had its first
evening of the season at the Lyceum Club
last week. Clarice Malyon sang a trio of
songs by David Coutts and some French
lyrics, and Dr. .T. F. Rudall’s cor Anglais
was heard in a piece by Leon Delcroise with
pianoforte accompaniment by Biddy Allen,
and in an unaccompanied number by Mar-
garet Sutherland. Katie Liddle played ex-
cerpts from Chopin, Palmgren and other com-
posers. The society, since the departure
abroad of its founder and most valiant sup-
porter, Mrs. Jimmy Dyer, has shown a ten-
dency to slip backwards, and a feature of the
evening was an earnest appeal by the pre-
sident and hon. treasurer for increased in-
terest and support on the part of members.
The University Scotts offered hospitality
to about 200 guests at the Lyceum Club
last week, the occasion being the arrival of
four new members of the faculty, Kenneth
Bailey, E. J. Hartung, L. J. Wrigley and
G. H. Cowling. Zinnias, dahlias and gladioli
greeted the recruits. The hostess, who
showed a glimmer of crystal on a pinky
mauve gown, played, with violinist Bernard
Heinze, Vincenzo Davico’s “Sonatina Rus-
tica.” Mrs. L. J. Wrigley wore black, Mrs.
G. H. Cowling brightened a black gown with
diamente and Mrs. Kenneth Bailey chose
bright blue.
At the tenth annual reunion of Berwick
Grammar School’s old boys it was made
known that the Thomas Sanderson couple
had established a yearly prize at the School
of Chemistry, to be known as the Allen San-
derson Chemical Memorial Prize. A cricket
match between a team of Berwick girls
against their sisters from Beaconsficld pro-
vided the afternoon's amusement, and the
evening’s bill of fare was a mixed entertain-
ment which went under the name of “Mel-
bournian Revels.”
Betty Ross .Clarke played hostess at a
small supper dance at old Admiralty House
one evening last week when Gladys Mon-
crieff, in a smart black toilette, was the prin-
cipal guest. Miss Clarke, in an ivory crepe
georgette frock built on the three-tier plan
and relieved by a fall of apple-green on the
shoulder, smiled over a rose-decked table at
her company, which included Mrs. Kenneth
Mackay, sparkling with jewels; and Mrs.
Arnold Westley, in a many-colored raiment.
An uncle of both bride and bridegroom
tied the matrimonial knot between Mary
Henderson Balfour, elder daughter of the W.
G. Balfows of Kew, and Ross Gordon Grant,
youngest son of the David Grant couple of
the same locality. The bride was accom-
panied by two ’maids in pale gold-lined frocks
with sashes caught at the hip-line by spark-
ling buckles, and hats of chiffon velvet of
the same shade. Her own apparel was of
ivory and gold brocade over which floated a
veil of old Limerick lace, with a shower
bouquet of pale yellow blooms.
A similarity in names is just now making
the popular McVean widow a centre of atten-
tion really belonging to her cousin, Mrs.
Mcßean, whose old acquaintance witli Victor
Hood, who was on two v.-r. staffs here, has
just blossomed into an Indian-summer en-
gagement.
Mrs. Andrew Glencross has been
announced as a prospective candidate for the
Brighton seat. The daughter of an erstwhile
Chairman of Committees in Vic. Assembly,
she has always taken a keen interest in poli-
tics, and has been a leading figure in many
social movements. She has even sat on a
Royal Commission.
Pictured here by Lafayette is the Weedon
lady, widow of a one-time Mayor of this
city, who also took a part in State politics.
Since her husband’s death just seven years
ago she has
travelled a
good deal.
Having under-
taken to act
as president of
the Women’s
N ational
Club during
the absence of
Mrs. Watson
Robertson, she
feels bound to
remain in
office until the
Scottish dele-
gation returns.
She lias al-
ways been as-
sociated with
the league, and
was president
of the club for
five years.
Outside poli-
tics her interest lies in social welfare work,
and particularly in that undertaken by the
Salvation Army.
Snobbery is partly responsible for the de-
lay that has occurred in making a beginning
with the building of the extensions to Vic.
Parliament House, for which the Common-
monwealth has provided £50,000. Some of
the members of the House Committee want
a dining-room for strangers, such as inky
galleryites, placed a floor higher up than that
for legislators. That would mean the expen-
diture of several hundreds a year extra „for
staff. Up at the temporary Parliament
House at the Exhibition for years the
members’ and strangers’ refectories were side
bv side, and nothing terrible happened. And
there were more Parliamentary giants then
than there are now.
The eastern end of the city will be appreci-
ably improved by the public garden which the
Government, at the instigation of the Parlia-
mentary House committee, has begun to
mako in the three-cornered allotment border-
ing Evelyn and Albert streets and Parlia-
ment House grounds. The area is really
part of the legislative reserve, but has not
been used as such notwithstanding the expen-
sive ornamental iron fence enclosing it.
Though Tschaikowsky’s famous “1812”
overture with its tremendous orchestral
effects inevitably suffers when transcribed
to any other medium, there is an element
of novelty in its nightly performance at
St. Kilda Palais, where half a dozen concert
grands are simultaneously manipulated by
the same number of players. Raymond Lam-
bert and his five associates make the most
of their opportunities, and the item is very
popular.
Here is Robert Henderson ’Croll, Registrar
of the Vic. Council of Education, who in his
book “The Open Road in Victoria,” just
published by Robertson and Mullens, describes
the scenic
charms of Mel-
bourne, its
suburbs and
near - at-hand
country dis-
tricts. Bob
Croll’s hobby
is walking,
and he intro-
due e s his
readers to
luncheon - hour
rambles, half-
day strolls and
week - end
jaunts, most
cleverly
planned. Ped-
estrianism is
out of fashion
in these bust-
ling days, but,
after all,
Shanks’s pony
provides the best means of seeing and appre-
ciating the beauties of any country. The
pencil portrait is by Quentin Sutton.
Among the folk who walked down the
gangway of the Orama on Easter Monday
were Dr. W. E. Wilson and his wife, wear-
the bronze of a year’s travel. With them
were Rose Wilson and Miss Soding. The
party intend making a brief stay in this city
before pushing on to their homes at Charlton.
11. L. Baillieu has torn himself away from
the fascinations of finance, and with daugh-
ter Claire and brother Jack and his wife,
is enjoying Sydney’s Royal Show. Mrs. Jack
Baillieu is booked for a heavy round of
social engagements, arranged by her sister
Ruby (Mrs. Pat Osborne) and cousin Viola
Hordern. W. G. Robinson, who accompanied
the Baillieus, is to sail for the Cold Country,
this month.
Dr. Gerald Doyle, one of the most popular
men in the St. Arnaud district, has mapped
out a tour covering both hemispheres, and
is making ready for an absence of two
years. Mrs. Doyle is being loaded with gifts
intended to add to the comfort of the
travellers.
Mrs. Frank Tate is wearing a happy
smile, for her husband has decided to cele-
brate his sixty-fifth year b.v retiring from
his job as Director of Education.
Marion Osborn, who has been ordered by
medical authority to cease from gossip-
gathering for a time, is packing her trunks
to join her parents in Canada, where her
father is vicar of the parish of Cornwall.
Miss Osborn succeeded her mother on the
staff of the Leader, and lias .also had a hand
in the women’s page of the Age. Still re-
maining here of the family is a daughter (a
nurse), a son just through his final medicine,
and another at the University (also a bud-
ding doctor).
Another resignation from the Age staff
is that of Mina Schuler, who, since the death
of her father, who was' editor of the daily
for years, has been assisting with the society
news. She is to visit Europe shortly.
An Australian aviator who meditates a
long-distance flight is Wing-Commander
Edye Rolleston Manning, whose exploits
among the Bedouin in Mesopotamia earned
him a D.S.O. He also owns a Military Cross,
and is one of the few Australians who
managed to secure a commission in the
Royal Air Force. He proposes to fly across
the Pacific to Australia.
Ida Dawson, the intrepid Monaro woman
who has sent her coo-ees to this page from
most parts of the earth, Patagonia among
them, writes now from Socmber Petoeng.
“Soember Petoeng,” she says, “is the outback
of Java, and the real jungle is only 200
yards from the house where I am staying.”
The orchids, she says, are indescribable;
nevertheless she gives a good picture of two.
“One is just like a brown and red millet-
broom, long thick handle and all. Another is
pure white with a chalice-shaped bloom;
from the very edges of the chalice extend six
thread-like green spikes, at equal distances,
each spike supporting a cross. These quiver
delicately even in the calmest air. Outside
all are six long, white tapering fingers. When
the flower is fully open these fingers sur-
round it, open, in star shape; but if one
touches the chalice ever so gently they lift
themselves, and the fingertips join protec-
ingly in a point over all.” But life isn’t
all gentle contemplation of nature. One
night,” the letter goes on, “we had to leav<-
the car on the track —we are two hours
from Kediri, and off the' main road aiu *
walk home. That very night the natives
got a tiger not a stone’s throw from the
spot where we had left the car. A few mghts
later, when we were returning at one o clocß,
a huge tiger passed from one side of the road
to the other not two feet from the car. As
the Showman says, ‘Always something
doing!’ ”
The Lockyer lady is planning to escape our
winter by spending it in Perth with the
Rodney Alsops, who have made a temporary
home in the Western city while the head ct
the house supervises the putting together ot
the new University. Nicholas Lockyer has
invited Dr. Geoffrey Owen, a bachelor whose
sister has joined the stream of oversea trip-
pers and left him minus a housekeeper, to
share the Toorak home, and preserve him
from solitude during his wife’s absence.
Xavier College, Kew, is going ahead with
the building of the superstructure of its
memorial chapel in stone. It has got £12,000
in hand or promised and wants another
£20,000. A big fete in the first week in
May. while its old boys and their families
are down for the liead-of-tlie-river boat race,
is expected to yield anything up to £5OOO.
The latest recruit to the footlights is
Aileen, the pretty daughter of Colonel and
Mrs. T. M. Melnerney of South Yarra. The
maiden, who possesses a promising voice,
made her first professional bow in “Mr.
What’s-His-Name,” the Easter offering of
Percy Hutchison’s comedy company at the
Athenseum.
Mrs. M. Hobbs is vacating her St. Kilda
home for an overseas journey with her son-
in-law, V. Steel, and his wife and children.
After Europe has been closely inspected, the
sightseers will take ship to America.
Staying in Dr. St. Clair Stewart’s South
Yarra home is his mother, Mrs. F. .1.
Stewart, just back from the Cold Coun-
try. Mrs. Stewart has not come to the end
of her travels, for her home is in New Ply-
mouth, Maoriland.
A recent par. on this page, commenting on
the “unsuitable clothing” worn by French
nuns leaving for the Islands by the Mon-
toro, lias caught the eye of a reader in
Java, who gives her own views on the mat-
ter. “At Madioen (Java).” she writes, “the
Ursuline Sisters remove their veils at the
6 a.m. Mass and do not don them again
during the day; the stiff coifs are well
.turned back, providing merely a shade and
shelter for the face, and though they wear
the long robe they seldom look warm, and it
is doubtful if they are any warmer than the
lay-woman with bare neck and arms. I
smile to see one of the nuns who goes sick-
visiting every day, accompanied by a Malay
lady whose sarong is tucked up nearly to
her thighs, showing her bare legs. The
sister has her habit kilted well up to her
knees, clumping shoes and a bright-blue flow-
ered Japanese umbrella. The nuns of the
Dominican order are enjoined to wear wool-
len habits, but in Australia they wear cot-
ton, so the R.O. Church is not quite so
hidebound as might be supposed.”
The family is very High Church —and
churchy. The pretty little bride had been
arrayed in a mediaeval robe of satin and
pearls, and really looked as though she
might have stepped from the pages of the
delightful Mr. Maurice Hewlett. Mother
and big sister ordained that the bride should
carry an ivory-bound missal to be in keeping.
The bride didn’t argue, but arranged with
her young man the flowers she intended to
carry. Came the day of the wedding. Came
the hour of dressing. Came the ivory-bound
prayer-book. Came the exuberant roses from
the young man. “You can’t carry the
flowers—the prayer-book is in keeping.
Besides, it goes much more with your style
—golden and fair and blessed-damozel-like,”
chorused the family. The bride replied not
a word. Turning to the girl friend who had
helped in the dressing, she said: “Keep a
tight grip on my vanity-case, Meg, and slip
it to me before I go into the vestry. My
nose will need a powder-up before facing the
multitude.” Mother took one look at the
matter-of-fact Miss, said no more about her
saint-like child, pushed the prayer-book
behind the dressing-table, and herself handed
the trailing roses to the calm and collected
bride.
Nellie Fergusson, playing in “Tarnish” at
the Princess, in which the young Queens-
lander Ruth Arnold is making such a hit,
has been on the stage since three years of
age. She was then a.member of her mother’s
company when that lady, Helen Fergus, was
starring in “Oliver Twist” with D’Orsay
Ogden. Chosen while still in her teens to
understudy Tittel Brune in “L’Aiglon,” Miss
Fergusson has since appeared in more varied
roles than almost any other Australian-born
player. Her best performances were as the
original Lady Isabel in “East Lynne” and
Ophelia in “Hamlet.” The last is her finest
part. She has also played in many old home-
grown movie dramas.


EXCLUSIVE
MINOS
/T
/r
SPECIAL VALUE
DIAMOND-CIRCLE-RINGS
FROM £ls-15-0
=*s
'/
DIAMONDS
DIAMONDS
DIAMONDS
At,
o'f"
Drummond’s Diamond and Gem Rings completely
fulfil the most exacting demands rightly attaching
to the purchase of the finest ring's procurable.
Speaking, from an .experience of over half a
century, the firm invite you to expect of their rings
a Quality, a Superiority of Workmanship, and an
Individuality that can be found in no other rings.
Dr.ummond's rings are the supreme combination
of all of these characteristics, and a true reflection
of more than fifty years of specialised effort to
evolve the most beautiful rings that can be made.
WM-DRUMMOND &.-C0
CN.THE HOUSE FOR FINE QUALITY DIAMONDS-*
AND -PEARLS
344-346 COLLINS ST. MELBOURNE
A. SAUNDERS’
Presentation Trophies
A. SAUNDERS’
SPORTS CUP, pure
siiverplated, Al qual-
ity. Height, ,8 inches.
SPECIAL PRICES
quoted for quanti-
ties for clubs and
schools.
ILLUSTRATIONS
with Price List for-
warded FREE on
request.
sd
A. SAUNDERS’ SPORTING SHIELD, polished
oak base, silverplated mounts. 18 inches.
£lO/10/-
We will sub-
mit Designs of
SHIELDS t o
Suit any
SPORTING
Subject.
fsd
A. SAUNDERS’ SPORTS
CUP, pure silverplated, AT
quality on polished wood base.
Four sizes.
75/-, 84/-, 110/-,
150/-
tßstt
A. SAUNDERS silverplated
ROSE BOWL, A 1 quality on
ebonised base,
£4/10/-
SPECIAL CARE AND ATTENTION GIVEN TO ALL ORDERS BY MAIL.
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker —Jeweller —Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Big Ben Deluxe
luminous
2 %
Big Ben Deluxe
2tJ.
Baby Ben Deluxe
21/-
m
SI
Q
10
5
8
5
7
Baby Ben Deluxe
Luminous
New De Luxe Models
YOU will like these new Westclox, Big Ben De
Luxe and Baby Ben De Luxe. They set a new
and higher standard of beauty and excellence among
alarm clocks.
They have a friendly personality all their own,
combining unusual beauty with faithful sendee, and
adding much to the attractiveness of the bedroom or
or any other room.
They are designed on an entirely new principle.
The clocks stand firm and solid, which adds to their
long life.
Sold everywhere, 21/-; with luminous dial, 28/6
Built by the makers of Big Ben and other Westclox
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY. LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
a
You Ye safe
if Wolsey
clad!
ALSO
ask to see
WOLSEY
LUSTRAL
Art. Silk Underwear
and Hosiery.
WOLSEY
SPORTSMAN
Knitted Outerwear and
Pullovers.
Pure Wool Stockings
for Women, Half-Hose
for Men, and Hose
and Socks for Children.
OLSEY Pure Wool Underwear
V V is the finest protection you can
possibly adopt! Pure Wool from
first stitch to last, produced by skilled
British labour, Wolsey preserves an
even bodily temperature and makes
you proof against chill and cold. In
your own interests buy some and wear
it regularly. You need have no fear as
to whether it will wash well —it is abso-
lutely unshrinkable ! See the Wolsey
Head Trade Mark on every garment.
WOLSEY
PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR
Made in England by
WOLSEY LTD., LEICESTER.
WOLSEY LTD., 3 16, FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
C.F.H.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.-


Under
Royal
Warrant
fsd
ToH.NL
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
Charieslleidsieck
wmtMß ■
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagn*
'-^Uteslleidsie<>-
Reims
'* I *»**r (• I 5) ,*e>t**'*
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Cable Address —
“ Mum.” Sydney.
Wire accommodation.
’- -.’5 . ■ -3 \
HQItL
EXCLUSIVE - - QUIET
and with reasonable rates.
TARIFF:
Inclusive Board from., 27/6
With bath from 307-
Rooms with Breakfast from 20/-
CUISINE, COMFORT AND
SERVICE UNPARALLELED.
Hot and Cold Running Water
and Telephones in every room.
Private Suites de Luxe.
Sydney’s Most Spacious Lounge.
Attached i
the Famous Wentworth Cafe: Dancing Afternoon and Night.
ADDRESS: LANG STREET, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up
to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining 7.30,
12/6. Supper 10 p.m. till 1 a.m., 10/6.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 7.30 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.15 p.ra.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret afternoon and evening
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 5, 4/-;
parties of 6 upwards, 3/6.
Saturdays and holidays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M 3666.
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
The weather spoiled the opening day of the
A.J.C. meeting as a fashion parade. The
periodical downpours made the outside tote
unpopular, and there was such a rush of
femininity for the tote underneath the official
stand that a stalwart policeman was swept
clean off his feet. The G.-G. Exes, arrived in
a slight drizzle, just enough to proclaim the
appropriateness of Lady Stonehaven’s croco-
dile shoes beneath her smartly cut navy tail-
leur, witli a navy and white felt flower adorn-
ing the lapel; a pointed fox necklet and a
black felt hat completed the ensemble. Notable
in the select pen were Lady Stonehaven's
mother, the Countess of Kintore, and Mrs.
Thorneycroft, dignified exponents of Edward-
ian styles, the former wearing black
and the latter a navy costume and a grey
hat that sat up on her grey hair with
enough black velvet frontal trimming to
make a modern flapper’s dance frock. Lady
Stonehaven departed immediately after lun-
cheon.
The State Governor’s party as usual
spent some moments among the horses. Lady
de Chair’s tailored suit of ruby-toned French
cloth was warming to the eyes, her small-
brimmed felt hat was of the same tone, and
American ’possum kept her shoulders warm;
when daughter Elaine doffed her rain-coat
she helped to brighten up the day with a
deep coral frock. Prudence Vanbrugh, in
elegant -tailorings of black and grey tiny
checks and a black felt hat, and animated
Jean Anderson, in brown heather of similar
cut,_ were two admired inmates of the Gover-
nor’s box. There were colored mackintoshes
in battalions, scarlet, purple, green, rose,
greys, pinks, wines, petunias and what not.
One lass flaunted a gay tartan mac. of green,
red and purple, with a little hat to match.
When the sun peeped out the gay coats dis-
appeared, and smartly-cut ensembles and
kasha and balbriggan one-pieces or jersey
jumper suits of wool or silk took their
places. Those who were not wearing red
were seeing it. Everywhere it asserted itself,
from the raw primal shade through every
toning devised by the dyer. You could
almost count the hats that were not of felt,
mostly black and brimless, a rather merciless
style for those with incipient fine lines, and
one devastating to tired eyes and wrinkles.
A girl sported a coat that looked as if it
had been cut from one of the big-patterned
marcella-colored quilts of great-grand-
mamma’s girlhood ; she further embellished it
with wool embroideries the color of Joseph’s
coat. A few cape styles showed that
the trend of the new season’s mode is to-
wards what is being worn in Paris and
London for .spring. The Cavalier and Col-
leen capes take some wearing, even when
cut by an expert, too often conveying an
impression of careless untidiness instead of
flowing grace.
The happiest of the cape styles was that
suggested by the magyar with wide arm-
holes skilfully gusseted into the low waist
line. Mrs. Cecil Johnston was a smart
exponent of this mode in her navy cloth turn-
out ; she was with her mother, Mrs. Walter
McNeil. The MacCormick lady, also recently
returned from Paris, was elegantly tailored
in navy pencil striped serge, and wore with
it a wine felt hat with rather a leafy brim,
Her daughter Morna was in rose beige sim-
plicity. Helen Stephen’s tailleur was the
most beautiful madonna blue shade, and
sister Philippa wore the same cut in the
cold blue of the French poilu’s uniform. The
Knox sisters had the most adorable orchids
—real conservatory ones—in their coat
lapels; their sister. Mrs. Colin Stephen, was
with vice-royalty in a satin cloth coat and
hat and smoked fox furs. Mrs. Tony
Hordern, grown plumper from her sojourn
abroad, sported a handsome tweed coat of
red and cream flecks and a bright felt hat
to match the crimson dress beneath. Medico
John McKelvey’s dainty wife made one
wonder if any wear could equal the smartness
of black and white. A glimpse of Mrs.
Oscar Backhouse’s verdant upholsteries sent
some of her acquaintances rushing to back
Limerick. Mrs. Roger Forrest Hughes was
sporting in fawn-flecked tweed with reptilian
trimmings ; Peggy Ilalloran, one of the new-
est debs., walked with a very proud papa,
she in warm buff tweed tailorings that suited
her brown eyes. Mrs. Alex. Play’s slender-
ness was wrapped i-i a French blue oilskin
coat; her sister, Miss Burdekin, braved the
rain in a costume of navy cloth and one of
the übiquitous felt hats. Mrs. H. E. Mc-
Intosh had the latest in the moulded flare
cut of black broadcloth with a shawl collar
of fitch. Mrs. Allan Potter dethroned her
little Duchess droop hat style for a severe
brimless helmet. Mrs. Fred McMaster wore
the tone of the butcher-bird’s plumage and
daughter Thelma was claret-cl#d. The Kelso-
Kings were quite a family party and like
many other sensible ones refused to desert
the official stand once they had pegged out
a good claim.
There was plenty of rank and fashion at
the R.A.S. official opening. Lady Stonehaven
and Lady de Chair were among those enter-
tained at tea, while the menfolk had
refreshments in the councillors’ rooms.
The Samuel Hordern lady, so slim and
girlish in appearance since her sojourn
abroad that she looked like her own elder
daughter, was hostess. She favored a black
gown with softening ivory lace for a vestetta
and collar. Lady Stonehaven provided a
fine dash of color in clianel red and cream
foulard; Lady de Chair wore sedge green,
showing the flared jupe with the uneven
terminal, and a sha,dy black hat;
daughter Elaine was a cool vision in mauv°.
Accompanying Lady Stonehaven was Lady
Hilda Keith-Falconer, smartly frocked in
fawn, also Mrs. Thorneycroft, in Quaker-
grey and black attire. Sartorially their
Exes. Stonehaven and de Chair were in a
class by themselves, light grey from top-
hat to trouser hem, the G.-G. favoring cut-
away style and the sailor Governor a frock
coat. They quite eclipsed Mr. Bruce—
spatless for once. An unrehearsed diver-
sion was provided when one recipient of a
cup insisted upon making a lengthy speech
of thanks, to which Gov. de Chair listened
with polite attention while secretary Somer-
ville seemed to be champing like one of the
ring horses.
Here’s Robin Calc’s picture of Norma
Morice, chief instigator of the proposed Gil-
bert and Sullivan Club, the correspondence
touching which necessitates the assistance
of two sisters
and a very in-
terested daddy,
George Morice,
managing edi-
to r of the
Farmer and
Settler. The
family are all
G. and S. en-
thusiasts.
There are five
of them, but
three Beryl,
musically and
with her
brush, Jean
with her dra-
matic gifts and
Norma with her
organising and
vocal ability-
are putting this
artistic ven-
ture on its firm
foundation. The club aims at analysing Gil-
bert’s wit and Sullivan’s melody, rather than
being a “sing-song get-together organisation.”
All the Morice girls were Australian born,
educated in Scotland, and between them have
visited most of the world. In her spare time
Beryl trains little ones in kindergarten
methods; Jean studies drama with Scott
Alexander, and Norma lightens dad’s official
duties.
“The only fault o f the Royal Agricultural
Show is that it gives you tod much for your
money,” complained one ample dame who
looked tired enough to testify that she’d
done her best to sample everything. It is
hard work trying to take a conscientious eye-
ful of the products of the North, South and
West, without mentioning Central Queens-
land, admire the horses, cattle, sheep, dogs
and poultry, examine the newest housekeeping
and labor-saving devices and 50 other things.
And then there are the wonderful show-
rooms of the big city firms. Anthony Hor-
derns rammed a small emporium into the
fine display-hall. This year there was no
occasion for mothers to carry wee babies or
drag toddlers round in the crush ; the Royal
Motliercraft Society had rest-rooms where
children could be left in the sympathetic
hands of capable nurses. The Karitane
Motliercraft Society had a tent with the
same good offices, and Nestles also provided
a mothers’ rest-room. Of course, there were
lost bairns in plenty, but they weren’t lost
long. One chap of five collected quite an
assortment of biscuits, toys and balloons
from sympathetic onlookers while being car-
ried to headquarters for claiming in the
arms of a stalwart constable; indeed, his
tears didn’t begin in earnest until his rescuer
left him in a comfortable chair to await
mummy.
The sensation of the ring events was to
have been seven-year-old Gracie Andrews
from Cowra. The curly-haired lass favors
a 17-hands mount, but the R.A.S. would not
allow her to compete, and considering that
the youngster’s legs barely straddled the
horse’s back the action was justified. Eva
Draper’s win of Fossey’s Ladies’ Hunting
contest on Good Friday, riding Payne’s Rain-
bow, was a highly popular one. Mrs. A.
A. Laidlaw was second. She will be remem-
bered as champion rider Alice McCulloch.
Mrs. Laidlaw came over from Vic. with a
team of beautiful horses and a sturdy little
son of four who is already a rider.
After demonstrating on a copper coin as
well as the brass key-holes of the horse-boxes
that his solution would turn such articles
silver, the canvasser had failed to make a
sale to the women who had listened politely
to his sing-song. “Well, go back to the
country,” he said peevishly; “you women
from the bush think that everyone in the city
wants to rob you. Go back to your turnips!”
They live within 15 minutes of the G.P.O.
Among the many Easter brides was Emily
Belschner, a pretty graduate of Sydney
Uni., daughter of Fred Belschner. She spoke
her vows to Noel Freeman, in pink georgette
veiled with white crystal embroidered geor-
gette, before Pastor Ruth. Sisters Doris and
Blanche, radiant visions in pink and blue,
were in attendance. After the reception
the newly-weds opened a dance to the strains
of the “Honeymoon Waltz” played by dad on
the zither and big brother on the flute. The
wonderfully decorated three-tiered wedding
cake was made and ornamented by clever
little sister Blanche.
Scots wlia hae formed the Scottish expedi-
tion to the Land o’ Cakes were given a fare-
well full of “hoots, raon” when the Hobsons
Bay moved out of S”on.ey last week. Cale-
donians breeked and wild were as evident on
the wharf as on the vessel, where stood the
Q. .and N.S.W. quota of the G5O who are
off to show their native country what Aus-
tralia has done for them, and one almost fan-
cied a gentle aroma of whisky in the atmos-
phere. The pilgrims have undertaken to
advertise Australia all over Britain and each
will bring back an immigrant.
George Black, M.L.C., a politician who
has played many parts and a sometime mem-
ber of the stall of this paper, is about to
take his third plunge into matrimony. The
bride-elect is Priscilla Verne, cx-vaudeville
star. George, who still has a facile pen for
topical pars, and light verse, is a bit over
three score and ten.
Sydney’s Alsatia is receding, partly owing
to the enterprise of entertainment promoters.
The bright lights of Wirths’ have pushed
back the lawless element from one of its
favorite haunts; and the establishment of the
Capitol in the midst of what still remains a
notable Chinese quarter doubtless presages
the gradual vanishing of the Campbell-street
purveyors of chop-suey and other midnight
allurements. Incidentally, every new pic-
ture-theatre that is introduced nowadays
“opens its mighty doors”; the repetition
grows monotonous. Mention of the falling
of the drawbridge or raising the magnificent
portcullis would be a refreshing change.
Gladys Moncrieff was given a great wel-
come home when she made her appearance at
a box at the St. James—where in a couple
of weeks she is to star in “Rio Rita”- —on the
night of her arrival in Sydney. Gladys,
always self-possessed, was visibly moved
by the cheers which her appearance evoked
from all quarters of the house.
Prince Henry, being now 28, an age at-
which even princes are supposed to have reached
discretion, has become, among other things,
Baron Culloden. In North Sydney there
lives an old lady who but for an accident
would have been the Countess of Culloden,
or something such. The Forbes family
owned Culloden, and the head of the family
in 1745 helped to end Prince Charlie’s pre-
tensions. But he made the mistake of re-
proving the English royal prince for his un-
necessary severity; and, when the Laird of
Culloden went to London, expecting to be re-
warded for his service to the Crown, he was
cold-shouldered for his plain speech to the
prince. Moreover, the heavy debt which he had
incurred in putting down the insurrection
he was told was his own affair; and from
that date the Forbes estates were so heavily
burdened that Mrs. Forbes, the mother of
the _ laird in this generation, came to Aus-
tralia. Her son, however, was not inclined
to let matters drift. An officer of the Bank
of Queensland, he was sent to the London
office to give him a better chance of re-
lieving the estates; and, aided tremendously
by the high prices of the last few years,
portions of Culloden and another family
heritage have been sold to such advantage
that daylight is now showing ahead. Hector
Forbes, formerly bank manager of Thursday
Island, will never reign at Culloden, but he
may wind up with something like eighty or
a hundred thousand saved for the family
from the wreck.
An auctioneer's advt. was the first notice
many people had of the death of Mrs.. G. B.
Edwards, widow of the first Federal M.P. for
South Sydney. Mrs. Edwards was one of the
big jam-making Peacocks and introduced her
husband to the very profitable business.
Quitting the big home that had been built
for the family on the North Shore line
when one after the other the birds flew
away—a daughter married into one of the
great motor and engineering works of
Northern Italy—Mrs. Edwards bought a flat
at the Astor in Macquarie-street; and it was
the sale of that which caught this Letter s
eye.
The only chick of the Alma Baker pair is
engaged to an Englishman named Pottinger.
The lass was schooled at Frensham during
the war days when her parents were pro-
minent in Sydney’s big patriotic organisa-
tions. Baker pere is one of the rubber kings
of Malaysia.
Herewith a May Moore study of Mrs.
W. J. P. Curry, an Englishwoman who has
had the curious experience of having her
first novel pub-
lished in Aus-
tralia mosr
Aus t r a 1 i a n
writers seek
and find their
publishers in
London. The
lady’s p e n-
naine is Jane
Primrose, and
she was rather
s u r p rised to
find that the
fact of her
book not treat-
ing of Aus-
tralia was in
no wise regard-
ed as a draw-
back by the
publisher, pos-
sibly because
so many visit-
in g authors.
after three months in this continent, think
themselves qualified to write the great Aus-
tralian novel. Mrs. Curry’s novel is called
‘The Two Flames.”
Rene Maxwell, sweetest of sopranos, has
entered into another important engagement,
the plump, dimpled lass having promised to
become Mrs. Idwal Jenkins in the near
future. Husbpnd elect is a musicianhe
lost his heart when lie conducted the revival
of “The Lilac Domino” at the Conserva-
torium last year and Rene took the star part.
No fanfare blared forth the opening of the
Macquarie Club at 15 O’Connell-street last
week, a .rendezvous for the city’s and the
State’s leisured women. It might almost be
termed an offspring of the Queen’s Club,
which is said to have a big waiting list,
although it admitted 80 new members last
year. Any would-be member of the Queen’s
must have 16 seconders, and it is said that
the Macquarie is to be run on lines to make
it equally exclusive. Miss Edith Hill is
president and there are already 500 members
enrolled.
Mrs. T. R. Bavin has been missed at
festive gatherings, and missed still more at
meetings for charity entertainments; she has
had to cancel all social engagements until
her husband is convalescent.
’Twas a braw Scots welcome the Stone-
havens received when they came to take part
in the commemoration of St. Andrew’s Col-
ledge University. Kilted laddies from the
Burnside Homes formed a picturesque
advance guard, skirling the pipes as their
Exes, received the warm handclasp of Prin-
cipal Ander'son, and the sweet smile of his
Highland helpmate. Festivities, after the
speeches, were in the nature of an informal
garden party. The MacCallum pair and
Jarvie Hood and his sister were in the throng.
The Meeks lady did the receiving honors
for the Royal Colonial Institute party in
mushroom and black draperies contrasting
beautifully with the vivid zinnias and gor-
geous dahlias that made the reception-room
a blaze of color. Eileen Boyd and Frank
McEacliern sang between talks and tea.
Delegates to the Country Women’s Easter
Conference had their first entertainment from
the Women Painters’ Auxiliary. Health
Minister Dr, Arthur had the first talking
innings and appealed to the country women
to make better arrangements for the aged
poor of their district than are to be found
at Newington. Dr. Sydney Morris spoke on
the Baby Health Centres, and Miss W. R.
Stevens told what Blackfriars School was
doing for the welfare of children.
Tall Yvonne Edgley, one of the Bathurst
Edgleys, wore a gown of gold lace last week
when she wedded Maorilander Lyall Wise-
man. Poppy Jenkin and Kitty Young were
the ’maids, and Harold Edgley and Kenneth
Jenkin groomsmen. Mrs. Edgley gave a
party at the Ambassadors before the newly-
weds left for Canberra.
The British Empire League has booked the
Wentworth for May 24. There will be a
ball and community singing of patriotic
songs.
The Australian Inland Mission Fete and
Exhibition opens at the Sydney Town Hall on
April 18. Charts and relief models showing the
vast spaces over which the splendid enter-
prise spreads its hospitals and looks forward
to flying its medical ’planes will be a revela-
tion to most people of the fine work The
Bulletin’s pet mission is doing.


"Mi
: i
ft*
y
’ r
iu>S
ByTr-.'yT
~•■•:• , x;
A HOLIDAY IN CEYLON.
The beautiful Scenery of Ceylon, the luxuriant tropical
vegetation, the buried cities and temples, the excellent
hotels and splendid roads make this delightful island
unsurpassed as a holiday resort. The jungles teem with
big game —elephants, leopards, wild buffalo and deer
.—and shooting expeditions can be arranged. Golf,
tennis and fishing can be had in abundance.
The cost of a holiday in Ceylon is very reasonable, both
as regards the fare and expenses while there. The Orient
Line Excursion Fare from Sydney is only £65 Return,
First Saloon.
ORIENT LINE
-2 .4 - 6 SPRING STREET’ * SYDNEY
1 ■ ft
Qtrtm
Anne.
Steps
Qood Taste Needed
Good taste appreciates the beauty of Shelley China. A Shelley
Tea-set speaks of quality in every graceful line, in purity of
colour (a secret three generations old) and the featherweight
lightness which it combines with unsuspected strength.
Afternoon tea, served in China so exquisite, has that note of
modest splendour which every lady desires.
Ask to see the latest Shelley Tea Sits, Shelley Dainty White China,
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel Dude Attwell and Hilda Cowham,
Shelley Domestic Ware, and Shelley Jelly Moulds—all British. In case
of any difficulty in obtaining write to:—T. W. HEATH
& CO., DTD., 232 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
S
CHINA
Look for the name Shelleij on each piece of China!
Legal Notices.
"TO THOMAS HOWIE late of Gwen
A Street Firle in the State of South Aus-
tralia Laborer.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bear-
ing date the 15th day of August 1927 has
been issued in the Supreme Court of South
Australia citing you to appear and answer
the petition of CHARLES JOHN PIT-
CHER of Orange Lane Norwood in the |
said State Attendant praying for a dis-
solution of his marriage with EMILY
AMELIA PITCHER IN DEFAULT of
your so annearing you will not be allowed
to address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the said petition proved
and pronounce sentence in respect thereto
in your absence THEREFORE TAKE
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid
you are within thirty days from the date
of the publication of this advertisement to
attend in person or by your solicitor at the
office of The Master Supreme Court Vic-
toria Square Adelaide and there to enter
an appearance in accordance with the rules
in that behalf.
F. B. McBRYDE,
Deputy Master.
BEASLEY JAMES WILLIAM KEAR-
NEY, of Victoria Square, Adelaide,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
FT STATE of WILLIAM JEFFCOTT, de-
ceased. The children of JOHN
HILLIARD JEFFCOTT, who died at
Wellington, N.Z., on 24th December, 1888,
and of LILLIE ELLEINA JEFFCOTT,
formerly MAHER, or anyone knowing of
their whereabouts, are requested to com-
municate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Box 7, G.P.0., Sydney, in connection with
the Estate abovenamed. LILLIE EL-
LEINA MAHER at one time lived at
I Parramatta, N.S.W.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotet
The Center of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Queensland Art Society held a fund-
gathering fete at Mrs, Barker’s home, Bronte,
East Brisbane. The cosmea is in bloom, and,
backgrounded by gum-trees and palms, the
garden looked most inviting. Flags and
bunting decked the stalls, and on the lower
balcony were flower-trimmed tea-tables. On
the upper balcony there were bridge tables.
Marjorie Hollinshed’s pupils gave an exhibi-
tion of fancy dancing, and Agnes Finney and
Fred Homer contributed to an elocutionary
and musical programme. Stanhope Hobday
spoke of the needs of the society; like all
Brisbane organisations of the sort, it is
needy. .
For a dance given by the Kangaroo Point
Women’s College students, Oscarhome was
decked out in deep-tinted dahlias and aspara-
gus fern, and the supper tables were spread
at Warrawee under scarlet streamers and
amidst autumn-tinted flowers. Freda Bage
was in the throng, and Miss T. Nissen, one
of the leading spirits of the committee, wore
pale blue.
The eastern lounge at Lennon’s was
dressed in pink gerberas for the tea arranged
by the R.S.S.I.L.A. for the women’s com-
mittee which helped with the recent Gover-
nor’s Cup benefit race meeting. Mrs. Ray
Stanley and Mrs. T. J. Ryan were specially
thanked by Fraser East. The officials of the
Q.T.C., who freely gave their services and
saved an expenditure of £l3O, were also
praised.
General Spencer Browne gave an interest-
ing chat on the songs of bygone days before
the members of the Lyceum Club. Many con-
victs were assigned to his great-grandfather,
William Browne of Anthalin, who was born
in Galway and served in the East India
Company. He arrived in Sydney in 1816.
Spencer Browne’s mother used to sing to
her guitar old songs of Ireland and Eng-
land "which she had heard sung by these ser-
vants. Spencer Browne said that he believed
some of these songs to-day lived only in the
memory of himself and his elder brothers.
For the opening of the Indooroopilly Golf
Club's season tea was spread at the club-
house amongst the browns and reds and golds
of giant dahlias. A mixed foursome match
was played, and president and Mrs. H. C.
Morrow received.
Dr. Alec Dunbar Mayes, well known in
cricketing circles, took unto himself a wife
in St. Andrew’s kirk the other day, the bride
being Thor a MacPherson, elder daughter of
the MacPhersons of Wooloowin. The church
was decorated
with roses and
palms, and
there was a
wedding bell
of pink-and-
white dahlias.
Autumn - tin-
ted dahlias
and bunches of
w i 1 d fl o wers
played their
part. The
bride, whose
portr a i t is
alongside, was
attired in sil-
ver lame, with
an cfver-dress
of ivory mari-
ette. Her veil
was of Hor.i-
ton lace, and
she wore an
orange - blos-
som circlet and carried a bouquet of orchids,
carnations, cactus-dahlias, roses and maiden-
hair. Vada MacPherson, Peggy Gough and
Doreen Medhurst attended her in turquoise
georgette and silver, with blue tulle ban-
deaus. Their bouquets were pink and yellow
cactus-dahlias and pink radiance roses, with
blue ribbon streamers. Little Ola, the bride's
youngest sister, was flower girl in rose-pink
taffetas, with a gold basket of pink roses
and antignon. The Ann Hathaway cafe,
decked in pink blossomry, w r as the scene of
rejoicings.
It is a hundred years since the first com-
mittee of citizens met at the suggestion of
Sir Thomas Brisbane to discuss forming'
botanical gardens on the banks of the river
that bore his name. They called themselves
the parks committee, and amongst its mem-
bers were Charles Fraser, Allan Cunning-
ham and Captain Logan. They mapped
out the paths and beds and went out into
into the bush to collect native flora, of which
only the blue gums now standing on the
banks of the river survive. Convicts cleared
the land.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Twenty thousand cheers were raised for
ILinkler, who spiralled out of puffy white
cloud banks for a graceful landing at Perth
Oval. Major Brearley in a Moth led an
escort out over the Darling Ranges to meet
the hardy little airman with the cheery
grin, who arrived in neat tie and carefully-
creased trousers. Deputy-Premier Willcock
X>resented a bit of paper worth £250, a gift
from the Government.
People who journeyed to Fremantle for
a glimpse of Mrs. Hinkler were disappointed.
The first person to board the Orama was her
husband, who scrambled up before the gang-
way was moored. Mrs. Hinkler waited
qufetly in her cabin till the crowd had dis-
persed, clad in white georgette and a white
fox fur topped with wide black head-
gear.
Joan Eyres followed the old bridal maxim
up to “Something old, something new, some-
thing borrowed” for her marriage with
Harold King. She wore her mother’s wed-
ding gown of white satin, remodelled with
long tight sleeves and an uneven hem. The
bridegroom’s mother posted from England
her own presentation train, a glorious affair
of gleaming silver lame, bordered with silver
lace and caught on the shoulders with rows
of brilliants; a Brussels lace veil frothed
over the silver. Madeleine Forbes and
Mollie Pearson attended in pink taffetas
hemmed with tulle, with bandeaux of tulle
and French flowers.
The Music Teachers’ Association opened
its season in the Karrakatta Club ball-room.
The Wendowie quartette contributed some
excellent chamber music, Iris Parker and
Mrs. G. Haywood sang sweetly, Mr. Leckie
played piano solos and Allan Ashton, Don
Edgar and S. T. Morley rounded off the
programme with instrumental trios.
Mrs. A. Walsh, who for six years has been
matron of the King Edward Memorial Hos-
pital, is off for a holiday in Melbourne and
Sydney. Mrs. Dewar Mackie, who is inter-
ested in hospital work, accompanied her, and
the pair intend to give an eye to hospital
methods in the cities visited.
This pretty lass is Bessie Durlacher,
who will
change he r
name to Mrs.
Keith Far-
rington at
Christcliu r c h,
Claremont,
this month. A
well - known
teacher of elo-
cution, Miss
Durlacher took
over Lionel
Logue’s pupils
when he left
for London',
four years ago.
She is an ama-
teur actress of
ability, and
has figured m
many reper-
tory plays,
making a par-
ticularly good
impression as Judith in Shaw’s _ Devils
Disciple” and in the leading role in ihe
Young Person in Pink.”
Among Perth folk leaving this month for
England are the W. H. Derrys, the J. J-
Mahoods and daughter Molly, and Mrs.
Merrywcather and her daughter Petty. j-'trs.
John Strickland and Doris Lee boarded the
Ceramic, Sister Eden Armstrong of Perth
Hospital, accompanying them. She intends
to study pathology in London.
Mrs. Hurford-Jones, who was Kathleen,
the eldest of the beautiful Lovell girls. Ims
her Major husband home on leave from his
regiment in India. The couple have a flat m
St. George’s Mansions, and intend visiting
the other capitals after Easter.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
We have had a week of polo, during which
society flocked to Birkalla every afternoon.
After the last match Lady Somers presented
the prizes. Harden’s team took the Gold
Cup back with them to N.S.W. The Goul-
burn team went away with the Melrose Cup,
and our two country teams, Mount Crawford
and Clare A, won the Cudmore and Barr
Smith Cups respectively. The Polo Asso-
ciation arranged a dance at the Maison de
Danse, Glenelg—quite an informal amair,
which proved a success. The frockmg was
smart, silver beads on black being favored
by many. The Mayor does not play
polo, but he and his graceful wife, who was
in clinging black, shed the light of their
countenances on the jollo.
A dinner at the Pier Hotel, Glenelg, where
many of the visitors stayed, was given by the
management as a finale to the inter-State
matches. The decorations were in the club
colors, red and gold. The Ronald Angas pan-
entertained Lord and Lady Somers and a
host of others at a large horseshoe table. Tne
trophy cups were charged with fizz and sent
the round of the tables. Several members of
the teams entertained their friends at smaller
tables, and there was entertainment of the
cabaret order, with dancing in the lounge
between the courses.
The A.R.C. meeting at Victoria Park suf-
fered rather from the counter-attraction of
polo, but there were enough there to be
thrilled over the £34 dividend that Jules
Jordan paid in the Hurdles. Muriel Hall
helped her father, the chairman, to dispense
tea to the committee and guests. The
weather was hot, and some of the frocking
was ultra-diaphanous.
Two years or more ago The Bulletin
told of how the Basedows had solved the
domestic-help problem. Dr. Basedow, to fill
in some crevices that remained in the data
he had collected for his monumental book on
the Northern and Centralian blacks, had
wandered for six months in Centralia, taking
with him his charming little wife, who is
almost as great an enthusiast in anthro-
pology as he. They decided on an experi-
ment, and coming south brought with them
two abo. girls whose dialect the doctor speaks
well. Two years ago the girls had already
been trained in domestic work, and they still
do it admirably. They won’t listen to any
suggestion that they should be returned to
their tribe; they are, for one thing, too
fond of the pretty clothes which they mostly
make for themselves. Nevertheless they
admit that they enjoy above all things the
occasional fortnight which the household
spends in camp somewhere in the bush.
One of the big social events of the week
was the dance at the Floating Palais to raise
funds for the State’s women rowing repre-
sentatives. Mayor and Mayoress Bonython
smiled upon the revels, she in black taffeta.
Betty Bonython was in powder-blue georg-
ette, beaded in silver, and her sister Ada
chose white georgette, also silver-beaded
Mavis Marsh, in pale pink georgette, and
Ellie Rutherford, in white and silver, were
among the dancers.


SCRUTTONS LIMITED
• •
• •
Machinery
Merchants
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
VISITORS are invited to call at their Warehouse to Inspect Sydney’s Largest Collection and Display of
Machinery and Appliances
3=
(h
m
m
STEAM PUMPS
PETROL PUMPS
GARAGE PLANT
BELTING
ENGINE FITTINGS
STOCKS and DIES
The Man on the Land should not
miss seeing
Idiqiql
“Marshall’s”
Portable
Steam
Engines
Fitted with the World-
renowned
“Camberd Crown
Plate.”
Representatives of Municipal Bodies should inspect the latest
“ Marshall’s ” Road Rollers
Also Crude Oil
Engines, Vertical
Steam Engines,
and
Vertical Boilers.
MARSHALL
STEAM ROAD
ROLLERS,
6 to 20 tons.
iRSHAL
“BIG
CHIEF”
OIL
ENGINES
REDUCED
PRICES
m
K-
£
Co r lI
s
*
OK
&
2-k h.p.. . £oJ 4 h.p.. . £57
3 h.p.. . . £37/10/- 6 h,p.. . £BO
8 h.p.. . £lOO.
High Tension
Magneto.
Blue Flame
Carburettor.
Automatic
Governor.
Easiest
Starting.
Cash or
Terms.
Send for
Details.
When
you buy a battery
buy POWER
For a self-starter you need a battery
which will give power generously
and continuously. Buy aP.& R.
and you get such a battery.
There, are many reasons why. Here
are a few. The lead of which the
plates are cast is 99.99% pure; the
active paste is " keyed ” permanently
into place ; inter-cell connector bars
ai\ copper-cored ; lugs are burned-on
as well as cast-on to plates ; such
tilings as separators and anti-corrode
terminals have been designed ; last,
but not least, the P. & R. has a
heat-proof, crack-proof, warp-proof,
acid-proof “ Dagenite ” case, manu-
factured only by Peto & Radford.
What more can there be to a battery?
FI o
AND tV
PETO A. RADFORD
ACCUMULATORS
The beginning and the end in
Poweß
Before you buy any
battery write for
special booklet to
address below.
Direct Factory
Representative:
John Arnold,
Degreaves Buildings,
Degreaves Street,
Melbourne.
i. G. HEALING, LTD.,
Melbourne.
SMITH SONS & EEES, LTD.,
Sydney.
ROY HILL & CO,, LTD.. Adelaide.
t«l V«v4t
m
i
l
i
i
MOTOR VEHICLES, LTD.,
Perth.
E. REYNOLDS & CO.,
Wellington, N.Z.
■o
m
Worthy alike
of your Pride
and your Trust
Such a masterpiece of craftsmanship is the wafer-like,
modern Elgin.
Whether wristlet or vest-pocket variety, you never
have reason to question their accuracy, and none,
however discriminating, will ever challenge such out-
standing beauty of design.
Elgin watches are true alike to the time-minute and
and the style-minute.
OBTAINABLE 'AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCE AND EFFICIENCY


Bottles of 36-2/3
Bottles of 100 - 4/9
1
Yeaston
Pure Dried
Brewers Yeast
Dose
One to four Tablets
Rocne Tompsitt too
7T\
All women are who take Yeaston Tablets regularly.
Yeaston Tablets are not a drug nor even a medicine. They
are a natural, health-giving food, a corrective to our modern
over-refined diet and lack of exercise. They contain only
live (active) yeast cells. Yeaston Tablets attack constipation,
indigestion, skin disorders and “ below-par ” conditions at
their very root. They are not a cure-all, but a simple means
of removing the causes of ill-health.
Accept no substitute jor genuine Yeaston Tablets .
Write for the wonderful Yeaston Booklet to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO. PTY. LTD.
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
"A clear spotless
skin denotes health
from within.”
Nature’s
Corrective
Tonic Food
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
TT -l r , _ ,m v j c “Rose Marie”
Her Majesti s “T he Girl Friend”
“ OYAL “The High Road”
Criterion “The Donovan Affair”
Z*™* .V.'.V “Take the Air”
Empire Vaudeville
Regent 777.7.7.'.' Charlie Chaplin in “The Circus”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
H-M 7 “The Trial o£ Mary Dugan”
i-77’c “On Our Selection”
Athfnje'u'h '777 “Mr. What’s-His-Name”
Majestio .7.7 Moving Pictures
llo\t>B . 7.77 Moving Pictures
“The Barber of Seville,” which took up the
running at the Sydney St. James Theatre
on Tuesday of last week, gave Scamuzzi Ins
chance of making a real hit as 1* igaro; the
familiar “Largo al factotum” endeared lnm to
the audience at the outset, and lie maintained
his hold by an admirable impersonation of
the character. Olga Poletti was brilliant
at times in her gay interpretation of Bosnia;
her happy choice of Bettinclli s Gan to cli
Capinera” for her solo in the music-lesson
scene delighted the house. Signor Alfien
gave a grotesque but effective showing ot the
lady’s guardian, Dr. Bartolo; Alessandro
Kota was vocally good as Count Almaviva,
who gets past the barriers with the aid ot
Figaro; and Fumagalli, with a face made up
in vulturelike lines, boomed his music with
some idea of the requirements of comedy. The
Pfrimmer lady, as the servant Bertha, scored
full points for her singing of the aria in the
last act.
* * * *
The next new addition to the Gonsalez
agenda-paper comes with the Staging of
“Mignon” on Saturday. “La Favorita” will
be heard on the following Tuesday, and
“Lucia di Lammermoor” on Saturday week.
“Lohengrin,” which is billed for Tuesday,
April 24, will be the last new production.
V
The falling-off in the attendance at
“Ernani” on Thursday night suggests that
the Sydney public prefers operas with airs
it recognises. “Ernani,” except; for excerpts
delivered at classical concerts, is unfamiliar,
but it possesses a well-connected, dramatic
plot with some exceptional musical occasions,
especially in the concerted work; and Bosita
Silvestri (Elvira), Izal (Carlos), Fuma-
galli (Silva) and Tamburini (Ernani)
blended their harmony in a way that almost
atoned for the lamentable acting or posturing
of the last-named. Don Carlos, King of Cas-
tile, Don Buy Gomez di Silva and Ernani, an
outlawed mountain chief, are enamored of
the one girl, Elvira, a kinswoman and ward
of Silva. Ernani and Silva plot the destruc-
tion of the monarch after he lias abducted
Elvira; Carlos decides to abjure his evil
ways, and forgives Silva and Ernani prepara-
tory to handing over Elvira to the ex-rebel.
The play might then close were it not that
the bad liver of Silva necessitates a fourth
act and a murder. This delays the finish
until Ernani digs a dagger into his chest
and dies in the uncomfortable _ attitude
usually adopted for such occasions in grand
opera. In spite of the too palpable “prompts”
and the rather annoying habit of conductor
Gonsalez of holding the action for impres-
sive movements, the performance was excel-
lent, particularly in the chorus department.
“Spooks,” the theatrical curiosity intro-
duced at the Sydney Grand Opera House on
Saturday, is a compound of shrieks, thrills
and laughter, with a love-interest ingredient
thrown in rather casually. The curtain
rises upon a gloomy-looking and storm-
beaten house, which several _ agitated
characters approach, and after beating on the
knocker are admitted by the simple device
of a blackout and the disappearance of the
house-front into the flies. Four of them, it
appears, are beneficiaries under the will of
an eccentric relative who has given them
the choice of spending three nights in the
house or forfeiting their legacies. In the
spooky events that follow they become a
badly scared crowd —but not badly scared
enough to keep them from lapsing into near-
vaudeville patter or light love-making in the
intervals between the horrors. The plot,
such as it is, is ingeniously concealed till
the very end of the piece. Fred Mackay as
the stuttering Douglas Blackwell, D’Arcy
Ivelway as a cullud brudder (one Sam Mor-
gan), Jack Settle as a bouncing police inspec-
tor, and Marie D’Alton as the ancient darky
female, Aunt Judy, are the most prominent
performers in the picture.
* * *
In spite of the cheapness of such refrains
as “Oh, Bose Maree I luv-yah; Ahm alwuz
thinkin’ uv-yali,” the melody and spectacular
effects of “Bose Marie” have caught the pub-
lic taste, and the attendance at the revival
at Sydney Her Majesty’s on Wednesday night
showed that the sparkling affair has not
outlived its welcome. The old cast re-
mains, even down to the sepulchral voice ot
George Bryant, and Harriet Bennet is as
bright as ever, but comedian Frederick
Bentley grows rather mechanical under the
routine of 700-odd performances. The re-
vival is only for a brief season; 1 mice
Charming,” staged by the same company,
will follow.
* * * *
“The Girl Friend,” moved from Sydney Her
Majesty’s to the Royal, will bid final adieux
on Wednesday next. The Royal will then wel-
come back the co. which staged “The Cuckoo
in the Nest” at the Criterion. The latter
showhouse is likely to travel “The High
Road” for some time..to come. “The Dono-
van Affair” still occupies the Palace. “Take
the Air” has been strengthened by the inser-
tion of the plump but timorous Violet Ellioct
into the thin part that was Mamie Soutter's;
and the Empire Theatre patrons show an
appreciation of the change.
J’.c ❖
The Ivelso Brothers romp through a pro-
gramme that lias kept the Sydney Tivoli full
through the holiday season. Another attraction
is Keith Desmond, an elocutionist who starts
with the argument from “The Christian”
between Canon Wealthy and John Storm.
Desmond is another Australian who went
away to strike liis best success. Also
there is expert juggling, and Smitliley’s
lionesses prove themselves thoroughly lady-
like beasts.
* * * *
“The League of Notions” continues to
make Fuller’s, Sydney, an attractive spot,
with the aid of Syd. Beck, Les Pearce ana
Linn Smith’s Jazz band; not to mention
Mike Connors and Queenie Paul, who are the
nominal owners of this “revue.”
* *
Allan Wilkie returns to Sydney on Satur-
day week (April 21), having secured an
habitation for his wandering feet at the
Newtown Majestic, which for the first time
in its history will have vice-regal patronage.
“The Merchant of Venice” will set the ball
rolling.
* * * *
Sydney got its “atmospheric” theatre, the
Capitol, on Saturday; what with white paint
and fixings the barnlike Hippodrome has
been metamorphosed, within and without.
“His Lady,” chosen for the main item in
the programme, is a pretentious, superficial
offering, to which even John Barrymore can-
not give reality. The story of “Manon Les-
caut” is all powder-puffs and rich costuming,
which derives an additional unreality by its
translation, through the captions, into the
American language. Jackie Coogan, grow-
ing lanky, shines brightly in “Buttons” _at
Hoyt’s. At the Lyceum an unusual situation
is struck in “The Thirteenth Juror,” where
an accused man strives strenuously to pro-
duce proof to back his confession of guilt,
only to find that kind friends have care-
“THE BARBER OF SEVILLE,” AT ST.
JAMES THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Figaro ( Scamuzzi), Don Basilo (Ernesto
Fumagalli), and Doctor Bartolo (An-
tonio Alfieri).
fully removed all the evidence. On Satur-
day next the Regent will change its pro-
gramme to “Metropolis” and a Charlie Chap-
lin picture, “The Circus.”
* # ❖ *
Having made Good Friday in Sydney hap-
pier for a multitude of poor children with
a free‘show garnished by buns and ginger
beer, Wirths’ Circus has. encountered such
a rush of patronage that it has announced
the suspension of the free list. All this week
there are matinees.
Putting spirit in the water-color: —
A considerable strengthening is shown in the
exhibition of the Australian Water-color Institute
at the Education Department Gallery (Sydney), and
Blamire Young (whose “Mary of Roses” is impressive)
and Fred Leist help it considerably. “The Cloud Burst,
Florida,” is the latter’s best. B. E. Minns has nine
vigorous contributions. Septimus Power has a dainty
“Autumn” ; in “The Drinking Fountain, he has
somewhat maltreated the human figure. Harold Her-
bert, as usual, is well represented, and M. J. McNally,
J. Muir Auld and C. E. S. Tindall are the other
most distinguished contributors.
The Gilbullivan Opera Co. is still singing
through its repertoire at His Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne. The principals are in as good or
as indifferent voice as ever, and the chorus
is enjoying the best of health. Miss Wilson
“THE TRIAL OF MARY DUGAN,” AT
MELBOURNE ROYAL.
Prosecuting Attorney Leon Gordon, as
Gwyneth Graham and a soft-hearted
audience see him.
ceased being a substantial Yum Yum on rn-
day night, but continued to _ demonstrate
that singing is a healthy exercise in J-ina-
fore” on Saturday. “lolanthe attracted the
usual packed and enthusiastic house last
night, and only a cataclysm of national pro-
portions will prevent “The Yeomen turning
out this evening. “Patience” arrives on
Saturday.
* * * *
Melbourne theatregoers are still feeding
out of the same nosebags as last week. At
the Royal Reon Gordon’s brutal methods
of cross-examination and the shrinking charm
of Gwyneth Graham make the verdict of the
audience a foregone conclusion m lhe Inal
of Mary Dugan.” At the King s On Our
Selection” supplies what might be called a
strengthful picture of the bush. Betty Ross
Clarke continues to delude two very simple
bachelors at the Princess, where the mixture
of mystery and comedy in “The Bride is
achieving a popular success.
* * * *
Those heavenly triplets the Cherniavsky
brothers unsheathed their various instru-
ments at the Melbourne Town Hall this week
too late for this paper’s local department to
record its impressions of what two years of
absence have done to their artistry and hair.
Concerts occur to-morrow night, on Saturday
and Tuesday.
* * * *
If Florrie le Yere falls far short of expec-
tations Melb. Tivoli is not much injured
by the fall, the Kwong Sing Walls having
arrived with their juggling marvels to add
weight to a bill which includes the dancing
Van Rowe and the Ten Roonies. lhe
last-named hide under their ridiculous get-up
a perfectly sane musical mentality.
There were thrills galore, official and
otherwise, at Melb. Exhibition oval last week,
when a “Roman holiday,” alias our old
friend the buckjumping show, turned up for
inspection. The first example of a stage
pedestrian was the hero who inflated liis
chest and allowed a motor-car to traverse it.
lie was taken off to hospital. A maddened
steer which took the wrong turning and got
in amongst the spectators was another hap-
pening. D. Stirling was desirous of sliding
on a wire from the top of the Exhibition
dome to the ground on his ambitious head,
but the police prevented him ; so he escaped
from a straight-jacket while suspended upside
down instead. A person who got his money’s
worth was a local youngster from Heidel-
berg, who, slipping in amongst the officials
and being mistaken for one of the rough-
riders, got the freedom of the worst outlaws
in the stable.
Two mixed lots :
Parades of Victorian art are on at the Sedon and
the New Galleries, Melbourne. The first-named exhibit
is mainly notable in showing that Napier Waller,
the one-armed Digger reminiscence of the Greek tradi-
tion, is improving his anatomy and getting a more
acute sense of tone. His nymphs and heroes should
never be placed cheek by jowl with Norman Lindsay’s.
Lindsay’s Bacchic frenzy makes Waller’s quiet
manner look less like artistic restraint than paralysis.
The New Gallery show is mainly Wheeler, Knox,
John Rowell and Newbury endeavoring to provide
suburban patrons with inexpensive jaunts into the
country. A. Colquhoun paints “Alfred Place’’ with
manifest sincerity and Lillian Pentland makes three
attacks on France without much vigor.
>l*
Things theatrical have been quiet in
Adelaide for a few nights and the cinema
profited. Its offerings arc mostly Ameri-
can : Mary Astor at the York in a “Goldeu
West” (Californian) romance; the excellent
hound Silverstreak at West’s ; Zane Grey at
Wondergraph, where also is the uncomfort-
able and rather anti-French story of “Barbed
Wire” (Hall Caine much altered). As a
pleasant change, “Runnibede” at the Pav.
gives a recognisable if sometimes rather sur-
prising Australia, with the delightful Eva
Novak. Wilkie has left the Prince of Wales
after a long season, and the descent to
“Mother Goose” is a little abrupt. The
Royal, after giving sobs-to-music .in “The
Student Prince,” turns , to frivolity-in-
pyjamas, “Rookery Nook.”
* * * *
Adelaide Repertory Theatre’s opening 1928
venture was “The New Morality,” by Harold
Chapin, which is repertory work only in
having more talk than action. In a houseboat
colony on the Thames, Betty has resented her
husband’s running (or sculling) errands
for the lady next door, and has been across
to say, in deplorable language, just what she
thinks about it. All parties, from a plenti-
ful lack of knowledge, discuss the law of
libel; and the introduction of a K.C. relative
and a wise butler makes it seem likely that
Chapin has been reading “You Never Can
Tell.” The other cat’s henpecked husband,
coming over to demand apology, stays in-
stead to dine and get tipsy, and in that con-
dition gives off an improbable oration; the
New Morality is that a really nice wife will
not worry if her husband should be unfaith-
ful, but cannot bear to see him made to look
ridiculous. On which the play falls to pieces,
Retty into her husband’s arms, and the tipsy
orator into the river, the curtain joining in
the general descent, with the audience still
uncertain whether there may not be another
act. The old-reliables of the Rep. had wisely
left this light stuff to the later arrivals.
Minnie Baker is a valuable find, but will have
to struggle against a staccato head-voice that
plays havoc with one-third of her. lines.
Symons and Downey were sound in the
stand-bv parts of K.C. and puzzled husband.
Jack ITnm had the easier and fatter part of
the timid one who waxes bold after the sixth
glass, and scored a large popular success.
“Seenit”: The musical comedy, “Princess
Charming,” which opens at Her Majesty’s
on April 28, should grip Sydney theatre-
goers with its romance and color. Action
is swift, with bright humor and pretty
music; an outstanding item is the martial
“Swords and Sabres.” The title role is in
the care of Kathryn Reece, who has had im-
pressive success in Gilbert and Sullivan in
New York.
“Hamfat”: Allan Wilkie, exiled for his
Sydney season to the Siberia of Newtown,
where' even a popular catering firm charges
a penny less than in the city for its pie-and-
tea, is making a splash of his first night.
The Governor, the Chief Justice, the Lieut.-
Governor and the Chancellor of the University
are among the guests who have promised to be
present. But Wilkie will not have the
trouble that we had when, with a company
nearly on the rocks, we went into the Theatre
Royal in Wellington, M.L., years ago, on
terms with its proprietor, Dix. The theatre
had fallen into disfavor, the weather was bad.
newspapers were claiming payment for adver-
tisements and there seemed no silver lining
in the clouds until Lord Ranfurley, having
had the position explained to him, promised
his patronage. The effect was magical. The
newspapers, shown Ranfurley’s letter, no
longer asked for cash, and crowded and
fashionable audiences came to the discredited
house. An intermediate difficulty was finding
a carpet for the gubernatorial feet. A new
one could not be afforded, and the one in
the theatre had. been out of use so long that
the rats had perforated it. The mechanists,
however, cut out the holes and sewed the
good pieces together, and quite a presentable
floor-covering took the pressure of the vice-
regal pumps.


' 7 s '
'
V
*
lA
W
/■
I
WJ w*
**&&**.
3*2
•• - •*■•«'••
i
-
B
£*
-- '
v W ,
;
■ ?.
■
hut this shoe is not a the name is not on it/
The great and ever-growing demand
for this make of footwear tempts
unscrupulous retailers to offer in-
ferior brands which are alleged to
be J. H. Sharwood’s. The public
is warned that no shoe is genuine
unless it bears the inscription—
“ Manufactured by J. H. Sharwood.”
Especially at a time like the present,
when boots and shoes are becoming
dearer, you are entitled to the best
value for the price paid—you are
entitled, too, to get J. H. Sharwood’s
when you ask for them. No matter
what others may tell you, remember
to guard yourself against fraud by
insisting on seeing the name.
The salesman who offers you some other make which he asserts is “just as good” has his own interests
at heart—not yours. Note carefully how the name is spelt, and look for it on every pair.
OBTAIN ABLE
LEADING STORES
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA.
sd
Made in Half-sizes,
MEN’S and
WOMEN’S BOOTS
and SHOES. '
jfimltkss jfnnttm'jir.
Any difficulty in mocurina will be overcome by getting into touch with the J. H. Sharwood Service Bureau, Abbotsford,
Melbourne {’Phone, J 3104—3 lines).


111 1 111 1 111 T 1 Mll fj
rnrrnt^^
I Ho be healthy-
J drink
- I.
\ the finest
tonic food
In 4 sizes drink
of all Chemists
and Stores
>n imnm n 11 nll mll n 11111 1 1 tl
THE WOMAN S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3d.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folfler.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
THE SCHOOL TREAT.
By
STEELE RUDD.
A COUPLE of months have passed
since Mrs. Juba Lee and Josie Ring
called and collected your sub. to the
school treat, but hardly a day has gone by
when vou haven t been thinking of the time
you’ll have. The day’ll be slow coming;
but, when at last the morning of it does
arrive, you'll be up and into your pants and
boots, and out to put a fire on ; and in a
minute or two you 11 be blowing hard into a
pannikin of scalding tea to cool it, looking
out at intervals for signs of daylight. Like
trains and things when a man s in a tear-
ing hurry, the dawn will be running late.
But you’ll give it another ten minutes or
so, according to your idea of the time. Then
if it doesn't start to show over the dark
wall of range to the east you won’t wait
any longer; you’ll go on after the cows and
horses without it, aiid let it catch up.
But it doesn’t begin to show, and at last
you move out into the darkness, groping
your way around the yard for the track
ieading off into the hollow where the stock
generally settle when they’ve had their fill.
And Rover, wondering wliat’s the matter,
will accompany you. He’ll have more con-
fidence in the dark and in himself than yon ;
and, as if making little of you as a superior
being, lie'll demonstrate how the Creator
was more generous in his gifts to a dog
than to you, for while you’re mooning your
way in uncertain fashion lie is scampering
off into the gloom, racing through trees and
brush and fallen timber for the mere joy
of it. To cloak your feelings of inferiority
you’ll descend to the low-down shabby spirit
of the human, and blast him, and order him
away to a place you shouldn’t be thinking
of on a morning like this. Of course he
won’t go—he wouldn’t desert you, in fact,
just now, not if you killed him for it.
So you’ll grope along frying to keep to
the track, when all at once you’ll nearly fall
head first over a plough horse that’s sound
asleep in the long grass. Mighty ! Old
Nugget’ll wake up as if you were- someone
come to shoot him. lie won’t be able to
find his legs half fast enough ; but when he
does he’ll bound up and stamp round snort-
ing in terror. And when you lift your
voice and blast his eyes as you did Rover’s,
he’ll gallop off and you’ll hear him thunder-
ing and bluudering over things as if. the
devil was pursuing Mm. Next minute
you’ll hear the rest of the horses wliinny-
iug anxiously to one another from different
angles, and then the lot of them, taking to
their heels, ’ll tear recklessly in pursuit of
Nugget. You’ll stand listening-in—your
heart in a flutter lest some will come to grief
in a gully or against a tree.
And while following the sounds your _ at-
tention will be attracted to other noises
higher up the ridgeside among the loose
stones. You’ll turn your ear and catch
sounds of cloven hoofs and the cracking of
knuckle-bones and joints, accompanied by a
mumbling “Moo!” In a second you’ll know
it’s the darn dairy herd, and that they also
have taken you for an evil spirit. And when
they start running, making an unearthly
row, you’ll grind your teeth and peer down
at your feet and round about in search of
Rover. You’ll feel that he’s the cause of it
all, and you’ll want to deliver him a square
solid kick in the ribs while the facts are
fresh in your mind. And while you’re
peering blindly around for him, Rover will
be sitting on his tail a few yards out of
reach looking up at you with love and affec-
tion in his eye.
A few minutes more and the grey dawn
will start to break in streams of light; the
dark, eerie objects about you will take
shape; Rover in the flesh will appear beside
you; not a hundred yards away, the dairy
herd will be bunched together, staring back
at you; the horses will be at the yard; and
the little homestead and its familiar sur-
roundings will all reveal themselves.
It’s broad daylight now, and you begin
to think it’s getting late; that the morning
will be gone before you can get a move on.
So you address a few words of instruction
to the cows, and tail them along to the yard,
whistling in imitation of the birds chorusing
across the gully, and wondering if you’ll get
your work done in time.
It will be surprising how soon the sun
will follow the dawn, and how high it will
be in the sky when you finish up at the
yards, load the milk-cart, attend the horses,
pigs and poddies and fowls; snatch a bit of
breakfast and off to the factory.
You won’t waste many minutes
at the factory, and on the way
back you'll put up a record for a
horse and cart over four miles.
You won’t wait to close tlie gate- —leaving it
open for once won’t matter. So you 11 pull
the harness off the putting horse, pour a can
of whey over the heads of the squealing
swine, throw the saddle on your hack and
hurry to the house for a wash and change
to your Sunday togs.
Nothing is in your head now but the treat
and getting there. Your laundry will be in
fair order, for the Ryan woman ironed a
shirt and collar for yon only two or three
weeks ago, and except for being speckled a
bit the collar will be white as snow. Your
socks, though, want heeling and toeing;
still, when your boots go over them, they
won’t be noticed. And if you find you have
to pull your boots off to take part in a high
jump or something got up for adults you’ll
decide to be careful about it and.pull the
socks off along with the boots. Your feet
and legs will, need a wash, though ; the soil
of the cultivation paddocks is clean enough
in its way, and different to the germ-laden
dust of tile cities ; still it changes the color
of your limbs and makes you look a skewbald.
So you’ll set a tub under the tap of the tank
and double yourself up in it before you turn
tlie water on. Lawd! It’s so long since
you were under the tap in all your nakedness
that, when you let it flow, it’ll fall on your
humped back like' a cataract of knives and
needles. You’ll shudder and yell, and Rover,
who'll be eyeing you sideways all the time,
and forming a dog’s opinion of you, will
gather round the tub barking at you. But
you'll keep on shuddering and yelling, tak-
CONFESSION.
HOSTESS: “What, going already? And must you take your wife with you?”
FRIEND : “I’m sorry to say I must.”
ing no notice of him until you suddenly feel
his two paws on your shoulders, his hard-
worn claws scraping their way down your
bare back, and his joyful bark in your ear;
then you’ll howl and roar at him, and in
your wrath upset the tub and yourself back-
wards. And when you kick the empty ves-
sel from you with both feet and rise, you’ll
cast reflections on Rover’s pedigree and
chase him two different ways round the home
with a stone .in your hand.
But you won’t take long dressing; and
with a last look round, as you lean from the
saddle and pull the gate after you, you’ll
touch the horse with your heels and off!
Gee! The feelings that’ll be in your head
and in your heart will keep lifting you in
the stirrups as you rip and rattle along the
lanes. And when you come in sight of the
picnic-ground there’ll be numbers of carts
and sulkies and saddle-horses already there.
The carts and sulkies will be surrounded by
women chattering and calling greetings and
questions and suggestions to one another.
They’ll be the working-bee, and they R be
lifting out baskets of crockery and provendci
and opening them up; and standing off a
piece under some trees will be a circle o
old cronies in whiskers, all shaking hands
and expressing surprise at having lived to
meet one another again at the same spot on
the same day that they met a year betoie.
As you ride in through the open gate,
dragging your hat over your face so tnat
no one will see how self-conscious and un-
certain you are of yourself, the local school-
master with a line of boys will be trailing
a rope around looking for a safe tree to erect
a swing on. There will be family groups, too,
standing about —some of them migrants that
were never at u treat holding each
other by the hand and looking as it they
felt uncertain of a welcome. Some more,
mostly young couples, will come flying and
crushing in behind you on dancing, prancing
horses, flashing riding whips as if they were
entering a show-ring to pick up prizes tor
the best hacks. . , ,
Putting your horse away in the shade,
you’ll avoid the women for the present, and
make for the old cronies in whiskers. You
have more confidence in them and know
they’ll be easy to pal in with. They’ll be
telling each other all about the weather: liow
much rain they got out of the storm that
broke over a couple of nights before. Though
you’ll be standing, listening and smiling for
quite a while, they won’t notice you’ve joined
them until you mention that scarcely a drop
fell at your place. Then they’ll turn to you,
and shake hands with you, and ask have you,
too, taken a day off to come to the treat.
And they’ll think it strange that you didn’t
get anything out of that storm ! From some
of their places it looked as if it was falling
in torrents out your way—like wheat coming
out of a winnower. But old Haley, who was
nearly flooded out, and is proud of being
specially favored by Providence, won’t be a
little surprised—he will remember that your
part of the counfry “alez icere a dry corner.”
After a while you’ll get restless, and feel
a flat tyre. You’ll be snatching and blowing
at the flies, and looking across from under
your hat at the women. And some of them,
when your eyes are the other way, will
be looking across at you; and then Bill
Buck, old Silas King’s handyman, in his
shirt sleeves, will drive in with Josie, bare-
headed, beside him in a four-wheeler, packed
behind with tins and cases of sandwiches and
stuff. Without knowing why, you’ll begin
to feel different. The old cronies will all
look up and stare; and when Josie smiles
and nods to them as she rolls past like the
Duchess of York, they’ll feel pleased and will
chorus, ‘'Hello, Bill!” Whether Josie saw
you standing there and meant those smiles
for you you’re not quite sure, but her coming
just when you were feeling a flat tyre will
seem like an answer to a prayer.
Following the vehicle -with their dim eyes
and watching it draw up under the trees,
where Josie'll jump out and greet their
wives and daughters with handshakes, those
old cronies will glow with the spirit ot
equality. And your heart will start beating
ahead of time when you hear old Bob Smith
come out with, “Now, look you at that! And
everyone a-sayin’ she were stuck up!” But
you’ll be sidling away from the old cronies,
looking as if you’re interested in everything
except women. You won’t feel valiant
enough to slay a lion in a pit, but with
a clothes-prop you’d take on a dozen old-
men ’roos in a paling yard.
“Hello, Dickie Gall, you’re just in time !
We want a good fire made.” You’ll know it’s
the voice of Mrs. Juba Lee, and it’ll come to
you like the Lord wording the Israelite from
out the clouds. So you’ll try to look sur-
prised as you turn to them, grinning and
flushing. _ ■
“Yml we want the tarpaulin put up after
you’ve made the fire, Mr. Gall” —-this will
come from Josie King, who's in charge of
the sandwich section, and she’ll have her
sleeves rolled above the elbows, and will
be tying an apron on, and smiling at you.
You'll get confused, tin* blood will rush to
your face, and forgetting about the fire
you’ll ask where the tarpaulin is.
But Mrs. Lee won’t forget, though she’ll
understand and see through your blushes,
“No, you don’t,” she’ll laugh. “We want
our fire first, and they can have you all to
themselves after.”
So, coming to your senses, you’ll dis-
card your coat, tossing it away as if you'd
finished with it for ever, and there’ll be a
pile of wood and a fire started quicker than
if it had been struck by lightning.
Inspired now with the spirit .of achieve-
ment, you’ll unroll the tarpaulin, and when
Josie, who’ll leave the others to carry on,
will take hold and help to push and drag it
over the limb of a fallen tree—when Josie
comes close to you, and vou feel her breath
and the touch of her soft hand against your
hard one, you’ll get into such a flurry that
you’ll be pulling and dragging the darn
thing the wrong way. And how your heart’ll
palpitate when at last you find yourself
alone with her under the blessed thing for
a second! But she won’t seem to notice,
she’ll be concerned only about making a
good job of it. At least, that’s how it’ll
impress you.
And just when the'job’s finished and you’re
standing surveying it, grinning at her in ex-
pectation of the word of praise that'll mean
such a lot, long Phil Ryan, a cove your own
age, with spurs on his heels and flashing
a riding whip, will poke his nose in and say :
“Givin’ him some work to do, Miss King?
He can do with it—no one ever sees him
workin’ on that farm of his. Can y’ give me
a job? There’s a seven-foot snake out on
the road that someone killed; would you like
me to get it and chop it into sandwiches for
the workin’-bee?” Gripes! how you look
at him ; and when Josie goes off you’ll feel
you could punch him.
But your feelings ’ll change when the
schoolmaster calls out wanting to know if
there’s anyone can climb a rope hand over
hand and fasten it to the limb to complete
the swing, and Mrs. Juba Lee shouts back
that Dickie Gall can. You’re not sure you
can yourself, but you won’t let on, so you’ll
grin cheerfully and roll up your sleeves.
It’ll seem a pretty stiff climb up that rope
when you look at it, and the limb might be
rotten ! But Mrs. Lee said you can do it,
and as no one else is competing you’ll squat
calmly on the grass beside the dangling hemp,
and while a mob gathers round to watch, off
will go your boots, leaving your socks on!
Yon won’t think of them till you’re half-way
through with the climb, and while you’re
straining your arms and gripping with your
feet and thinking about the darn limb, you’ll
hear them laughing under you and the kids
calling one another to look at the big hole
in his socks, and their mothers telling them
to shut up. It’ll take a lot of heart out of
you; you’ll weaken in the arms and for a
moment you’ll kick and dangle as if you
were fighting to defeat the executioner.
“Stick to it,” the schoolmaster will urge;
“you haven’t got much farther to go!” To
you it’ll seem a mile, and when you shut
your eyes and set your teeth and take fresh
grips, and kick your legs getting astride the
limb as if you were swimming, one of the
socks will leave your foot and float down
among the spectators. It will cause a stir.
Old McClure will rescue it from the kids
and mind it for you till you descend, and
when you reach earth you’ll be puffing, and
in a hurry to put your boots on again.
Your services will be in great demand now
—there’ll be scarcely anything you won't be
asked to take a hand in. But whether you’re
on the tea buckets or carrying round buns
or swinging the girls, your eye will be roam-
ing round in search of Josie. You’ll bo
wanting to keep her in view. She’ll be your
inspiration and source of enthusiasm.
There’ll be times, too, when you fancy she’s
been looking to see where you are. And
when big Nellie Ryan, who hasn't spoken
to you for eighteen months, finds you are
friendly with Josie, whom she doesn’t like,
<Continued on page 53.)


EXCELLENCE
Is never 3 achieved
bij accident^
The high standard of excellence
set many decades ago by Linde-
man’s Wines, and ever since main-
tained, has once more gained the
approbation of expert judges at
the Royal Easter Show. The
securing of 3 championships for
Hock, Chablis, and Claret, as well
as 24 FirSt Prizes, 15 Seconds and
3 Thirds, provides Still further
evidence that Lindeman’s Wines
are unexcelled by the world’s best.
LINDEMAN’S Hospital Brandy
was awarded FIRST PRIZE
This tribute to the high quality of
Lindeman’s Hospital Brandy is
particularly gratifying. "The value
of brandy,” says Sir Arbuthnot
Lane, "as an aid to the proper
enjoyment of life, the better
functioning of the stomach,
the restoration of vigor
and energy, and the main-
tenance of good health
is daily becoming
more widely
recognised”
LIN DEMAN'S
amous (mam
Amusements.
p M P I R E THEATRE.
*“ SAUNDERS’ CORNER, RAILWAY SQUARE.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Thursdays & Saturdays, 2.15.
An Airy Musical Comedy,
TAKE THE AIR.
With Bobby Jarvis, Violet Elliott, Russell Scott,
Audrey Lewis and All-Star Cast.
The Famous Empire Pony Ballet and Beauty Chorus.
Week Nights: 2/6, 4/6, 7/6. Sat. Nights: 3/3, 5/6,
8/6. Matinees: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6. Children: 1/-, 1/6, 2/6.
Reserves:
Theatre, MAIOOO, and all city Booking Offices.
gYD N E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S : ROSE MARIE.
ROYAL : THE GIRL FRIEND.
CRITERION: THE HIGH ROAD.
PALACE : THE DONOVAN AFFAIR.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
* * Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivcll Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World's Best.
R EGENT THEATRE, SYDNEY,
1 * The greatest motion picture programme in the
History of the Screen.
CHARLIE CHAPLIN in
THE CIRCUS.
ALSO
METROPOLIS,
A U.F.A. Production.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, APRIL 14.
■ C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
u ' MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
lIIS MAJESTY’S: lOLANTHE,
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11,
THE YEOMEN OF THE GUARD,
APRIL 12 and 13.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE TRIAL OF MARY DUGAN.
A
T HEN Ai U M THEA T R E,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
PERCY HUTCHISON
and his English Comedy Co. in a Sparkling Three-act
French Comedy,
MR. WHAT’S-HIS-NAME.
HOYT’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
BUTTONS,
With JACKY COOGAN.
Also
ALABAMA WILD CAT,
With TOM MIX.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
MONTE BLUE
in
THE BUSH LEAGUER,
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees and Direction: Bailey & Grant.
EVERY EVENING.
FOR A SHORT SEASON ONLY.
ON OUR SELECTION.
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER.
WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SHAKSPEARE.
In preparation for 1928, “Coriolanus,” “All’s Well
That Ends Well,” “Henry IV.” (part 1), “Richard II.”
Crystal Theatre, Broken Hill, April 7 to 16.
Sydney Rep.: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229, Sydney.
Legal Notice,
Civil Record No. 719 of 1927.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH
1 AFRICA.
(Orange Free State Provincial Division.)
Bloemfontein, Friday, 2nd March, 1928.
Before the Honorable Mr. Justice McGregor
and the Honorable Mr. Justice Botha.
IN THE MATTER OF THE PETITION
OF ELIZABETH SALZMANN (born
Carruthers) and HILDA REBECCA
OWEN (born Turner) in their capacity
as Executrices Testamentary in the
estate of the late MARGARET MUIR
GIBSON.
Upon hearing Mr. O. H. Hoexter, counsel
for the petitioners, and Mr. C. A. Beck, Iv.C.,
counsel for the British Empire Service
League (South Africa), IT IS ORDERED
that a rule nisi do issue calling upon all
persons interested to show cause on the 30tli
day of June, 1928, why the Court should not
with respect to the following clause in the
Will of the late Margot (or Margaret) Muir
Gibson, of 11 Cricket Street, Bloemfontein.
Orange Free State, South Africa, who died
on 10th May, 1927, namely: —
“No. 11 Cricket Street with houses
thereon can be sold to best advantage, and
proceeds to be divided between the blind
and disabled soldiers and sailors of the
Great War in South Africa and Great
Britain —unless I should predecease Mrs.
George Sutherland, to whom I wish an
life interest of four pounds sterling (£4)
monthly. Mrs. Owen and Mrs. Salzmann,
my Executors, can use their discretion
whether to sell at my death or at Mrs.
George Sutherland’s death.”
pronounce in favor of one or other of the fol-
lowing alternatives, in each case subject to
the life interest of the said Mrs. George
Sutherland.
(1) the proceeds to be paid over to the
ab intestato heirs of the said testatrix;
(2) the proceeds to be paid over to the
British Empire Service League or to some
other body claiming on behalf of the blind
and disabled Soldiers and Sailors men-
tioned in the above clause, to be devoted to
the indicated purposes;
(3) the proceeds to be paid over to Mrs.
Owen and Mrs. Salzmann for their sole
benefit;
(4) the proceeds to be divided equally be-
tween the said Mrs. Owen, Mrs. Salzmann
and the British Empire Service League,
or some other body claiming as aforesaid,
the share of the said League or other body
to be devoted to the indicated purposes.
(Sgd.) W. IJ. FITCHETT,
Registrar.
Messrs. Goodrick and Franklin,
Petitioners’ Attorneys,
BLOEMFONTEIN.
Missing Friends.
WILL HECTOR HAIR write to
ARCHIE HAIR?
’"THE relatives of the late JOHN EBEN-
-1 EZER ENDICOTT ELLIS, son of
John Simmonds Endicott Ellis and Esther
Angela Fitzgerald Whillock, and grandson of
James Whillock, are requested to communi-
cate with the Public Trustee, Sydney, N.S.W.
DOWNING, ROY, aged about 16, son
of Amelia Downing, will hear some-
thing to his advantage if he communicates
with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY.
113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
This year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
COWBOY SADDLERY OUTFITS
A \
m
: a
The
“Texas” Ranger
COWBOY
SADDLE,
£l3/13/-
Freight Paid for Cash
with Order to any N.S.W.
Railway Station.
Bs4—Cowboy Bridle, fancy
studded with gold-color bit
with nickel horse head on
cheek 76/-
B 53 —Breastplate Studded
to match bridle .... 75/-
B7o—Chaps, fringed, 85/-
Write tor Our Catalogue of Texas
and Australian Saddlery and Harness.
Bridlt
854.
WALTHER STEVENSON, LTD.
SADDLERS, &c,
395 George Street,
SYDNEY.


IKS LEX Ike Ideal ‘Watch for the
'Business Man!
/HE “Rolex" is the smartest
wrist match on the market.
Ifet for all its good looks “Rolex”
is built to stand hard knocks—-a
silent ticker that neuer fails you—
always accurate and dependable
leading jeweller can show
you a full range of "Rolex " —*.
both wrist and pocket watches.
Look for the name “Rolex" on the dial,
or the movement, or inside the case
Resolutely refuse substitutes.
R 2LEX
‘Wrist and Pocket AVatckes
lor Men and 'Women
The world's best by Observatory test'.”
miiMrfuiunWHMl*
III"-
I?
m
S 8
Eyes on the Ball!
“Awake early—an anxious glance at the weather— Glorious
—To-day’s the day for a bit of exercise—Stretch luxuriously
—Haven’t missed my ENO all the week Feel fine Going
to show them how those shots should be played.”
This feeling of well-being can
always be maintained by fol-
lowing the pleasant, health-
giving practice of taking
ENO’s “Fruit Salt” first thing
every morning. ENO will at
all times, and in every climate
help maintain the perfect
functional activity of the
bodily organs. Being free
from sugar, flavouring mat-
ter, and purgative mineral
salts, its regular use l\as no
drawbacks. In fact, EN O
assists Nature without
supplanting her methods
and can always be safely
taken by both young or old.
Prepared only by
J. C. ENO, Limited.
London, England.
Sales Agents: The British
Harold F.Ritchie &. Co.»
Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
♦ ♦
♦♦
IN
TWO SIZES'
AT CHEMISTS ,
AND STORES.
THE WORDS “FRUIT SALT” AND ENO ARE REGISTERED TRADE MARK!,
This year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
she’ll forget her coolness towards, you and
start asking you things, and always running
across you by accident and getting more
friendly every time. It'll puzzle you a good
deal, her following you about; but, of course,
you won’t be experienced enough to tumble
to what it means.
After the kids and most of the adults
have been fed several times on cakes and
sandwiches and it’s getting near three or
four o’clock, a game of rounders for the work-
ing-bee will be started, and you and Pat Smith
asked to pick sides. That’ll be a momentous
moment. Holy! How you’ll be fidgetin’ and
intriguing in your mind to win the toss so
as to make Josie your first pick and have her
on your side. Your luck will be in, too ;
but just when you shout out her name as if
she was on fire and other girls start shoving
her across to you, old Silas King will come
driving on to the ground with a flabby swell
from the city beside him in the buggy. The
swell has a habit of visiting the Kings
whenever there’s anything on in the locality.
“Enjoying yourselves—enjoying your-
selves! Quite right; quite right!” old Silas
will mumble to all of you as he draws up
to park the four-wheeler. You won’t have
seen much of the old gasper since you
beat him for your little homestead, and you
can’t help feeling that you’d sooner go and
twist a lion’s tail than face him. So,
watching his movements out of the corner of
your eye as he. steps out of the buggy, leav-
ing the swell in it, you’ll be consoling your-
self by thinking he might have forgotten all
about the land matter anyway. So, heading
through the crowd, taking no notice of the
ball flying past his ear, the old chap’ll tell
Josie that he has brought Mr. Draper along
and Avants her to look after him and see
he gets a cup of tea and something to eat.
Of course Josie will be too sweet-uatured
not to seem glad about it, but a coloring of
disappointment ’ll come to her cheeks when
she puts down the bat; and, noticing the
old chap has left you out of the nods he’s
given to the others, she’ll call his attention
to you with —“You know Mr. Qall, papa?”
A queer feeling will come over when you
hear your name from her! You’ll get ready
to give him your hand and to welcome him
to the picnic. But old Silas will only give
you a sour look, and then ask how you’re
getting on over there among the bandicoots
—have they eaten you out yet?
* :!= sjc sic
While you’re trying to recover he’ll go off
with Josie to the buggy; and Avhen you hear
the girls whispering near you that he’s the
ugly bachelor whom old Silas wants Josie
to marry because he’s got money, you’ll get
a fit of absent-mindedness and forget which
side you are on; and, though you’ll be glad
when the game is finished, you’ll feel dis-
consolate when you see old Silas mooching
off Avith the schoolmaster and leaving Josie
to the other fellow. You can’t keep your
eyes away from them, and you’d like to knoAV
what that city dope’s game is.
Later, when you find it’s time you were
going home to milk your cows, and that city
interloper is still laughing and talking to
Josie as if he expected to be set to music,
you’ll feel a desperate urge. You must have
a word of some kind with her before you go ;
so, after telling the others that you are off,
and calling “So-long,” you’ll get on your
horse and ride as close as you can to the
buggy, heading for the gate.
“Oh, are you going, Mr, Gall?” .Tosie'll
ask, turning from Draper, and looking up
at you with fresh blood in her cheeks.
“Yes, must be making tracks now,” you’ll
ans Aver, reining up and feeling you could
hop off and strangle the swell with the silk
tie he is wearing. Then, holding up her
hand to you and smiling, Josie’ll hope yon
enjoyed the day.
My word —you did! And all the way
home you’ll reckon that everything would
have been splendid only for that city goat
coming in the buggy.
And next day, and for days and days after,
the same thoughts Ayill keep your mind alive;
and. unlike the early cloud and the morning
deAv, the school treat will be a long time
passing away.
Death-knocks.
SUBMERSIBLE .Toe sighed. He felt sad
and distraught, lonely and undone.
He was listed for discharge from hos-
pital, and was about to rejoin Submarine
Dl3, otherwise known as the Devil’s Number.
In hospital they had nicknamed him Sub-
mersible Joe, and they laughed as he, passed
lugubriously out of the door. “Good-bye,
Sub., old son,” they called after him; and
then someone added: “And it may be for-
ever. I’d make me will if I wus in one o’
them tin boxes.”
Submersible flung his kit-bag aboard the
Devil’s Number. His eyes caressed the blue
skies; his lungs drank in the fresh air as
they skimmed along towards the German
coastline ; his nose once, again sampled the
stinging smell of the thick crude oil coughed
from the exhaust of the engine. He won-
dered why he had ever joined the submarine
service. Of course it was for the. extra
pay. But what a fool he had been! What
was the good of extra pay to a dead man?
He felt nervy and jumpy after the calm
spell in hospital, and a strange presentiment
possessed him that this would be his last
run.
“Diving stations!”
The piping voice of the boyish commander
percolated through the sub. like the first
note of Gabriel’s trumpet.
Submersible Joe took his station astride
the torpedo tube and sighed heavily. He
listened to the oil-engine stop, heard the
change-over to the battery, and waited for
the water to gurgle into the ballast tanks.
Then the hatchway clanged shut in the
conning tower like a lid on a box, except that
it felt like the lid on a coffin.
Good-bye sunshine, blue skies and fresh
air ! What a dinky little cosy cot he had
had in hospital—white sheets and warm
blankets and flowers beside him!
“We’re goin’ under the mine-field.” the big
stoker petty officer confided to Submersible
Joe.
“Yes, I know,” Joe nodded. “I got the
wind up this time. I don't know why.
suppose it's after bein’ in- hospital.”
"We wouldn't know it if we hit a mine,
came the consoling observation of the big
stoker P.O. "It’d be just like chloroform —
a kinder black-out. We wouldn’t even hear
it.”
Joe remembered seeing the patch of oil
on the surface after an enemy sub. had been
blown up. “No,” he said. “We wouldn’t,
I know.” Then he listened to the purring
of the sea rushing past over the plates of the
Devil’s Number.
Purr-rr-rr 1 The sound was like the
gentle applause of a cat. Yes, a black cat
waiting to spring on a poor little bird!
He was the bird and the mine-field was the
black cat of—Death.
He tried to shake the deadly feeling of
fear off. Yet overhead were the mines. The
sub. was passing under them at nine knots.
What if one had sunk a little lower —what?
No. One wouldn’t hear it. Wouldn’t know
even. The big stoker was right.
Joe looked at the sweaty plates of the
sub. and drew his fingers over the little
globules of condensed water. The depth
gauge showed sixty feet below the surface.
“Surface!” piped the Commander.
Joe watched the gauge slowly creep round ;
up and up—fifty feet—forty feet —thirty
feet. He wondered whether the Commander
was sure that he had cleared the minefield.
He looked only a boy, and he had such a
piping thin voice.
The sub. slowed down to a crawl.
Fifteen feet. Joe squirmed round on his
torpedo tube ready for a lungful of fresh
air. “A man feels like a sardine down
here,” lie told the big stoker.
“A bit o’ whitebait,” growled the stoker.
“It ain’t natcheral, it ain’t. Anyhow, a
man wouldn’t have to pay for a funeral.”
Joe took a cigarette out and tapped the
end on the torpedo tube ready to light as
soon as the surface was reached. “No,” he
admitted ruefully. “He might be cremated.”
“I saw a sub. blown clean outer the
water,” said the stoker. “It just fell to
pieces like a pack o’ cards. But no men
fell out.”
“Was it a mine”- began Submersible
Joe. But he didn’t finish.
The Commander, who was speaking at
the same moment, didn’t finish either.
The engine-room artificer who was reach-
ing for a wheel-spanner to shut off a pump
paused half way—liig hand suspended above
the spanner and his fingers open.
Everyone aboard the sub. held his breath.
The metallic thud of a mine sounded
against the nose of the sub.!
Joe shut liis eyes and knew he ought to
be dead. He opened them and saw the hand
of the engine-room artificer stretched out
above the spanner.
Thud! Again the mine knocked, this time
amidships.
Joe leaned forward and embraced the
torpedo tube with both arms. He shut his
eyes again.... and opened them again.
Clug! Thud ! The mine had touched the
stern of the sub.; it had gone past with-
out exploding. Joe sighed and took a long
hreath. Death had knocked and passed by.
It was the voice of the big stoker that
broke the breathless spell in one big laugh-
ing shout of derision: “Another dud
Von Tirpitz.”
EDOUARO A. AUJARD.
Marching Song.
All the yellow leaves of autumn marching in
the wind,
A wind that wanders whimpering by valley
and by hill;
It pipes a plaintive threnody for green life
that is done,
For things that will no longer need the
solace of the sun,
For yellow leaves and russet that tap the
window pane,
And join the madcap dance of death along
the wintry lane,
Until the brown and swirling ranks are damp
and torn and thinned —
All the yellow leaves of autumn marching in
the wind.
All the shining stars of heaven marching
down the skies,
The skies that are the haven of the little
bended moon;
The clouds about her slender form are as a
bridal veil,
And she has passed with laughter through
a comet's fiery tail.
Orion and the planets and the sparkling
Pleiades
Are marching down the midnight sky in soft
and windless ease,
To the sound of star-song mingled with the
harps of Paradise—
All the shining stars of heaven marching
down the skies.
All the green kings of the forests marching
to the seas;
Oak and elm and sycamore on the uplands
grown,
Canopy of branch and leaf eagerly unfurled,
Listening to the centuries creeping round
the world;
Over hill and billowed down in a swaying
throng,
Ranks of brown and emerald rustling to the
song
Of bird and wind and water and the shining
bees —
All the monarchs of the forests marching
to the seas.
All the people of the ages marching on
through time,
By the mountain passes, through the
valleys of the world ;
Weary they and sore of foot and bent with
burdens great,
But still with singing they go forth to pass
the secret gate;
And in their song is memory and hope and
high desire,
But the song upon the Spirit Way is like a
muted lyre.
And the citterns sink to whispers while the
Bells of Heaven chime—
And the throngs of nil the ages go adventur-
ing through time.
N.S.W.
LILLA GORMILULLE MCKAY.


B. $. A. wins the
Colmore Cup
Mr. J. Parker, on a B.S.A. 3.49 h.p. O.H.V. and sidecar, made
the best performance of the day and won the premier award
in the first English classic event of the year, the Colmore
Cup Trial. B.S.A.’s also secured in the same Trial
Cranmore Trophy
For the best solo performance: J. Humphries, B.S.A. 3.49 h.p. O.H.V.
Bayliss Trophy
For the best performance on a side valve machine: H. G. Uzzell. B.S.A. 9.86 h.p. and sidecar.
Three Gold Medals
In addition B.S.A. machines made the fastest times in the
Acceleration Test in the 350 cc. solo, 350 cc. Sidecar, and
over 600 cc. Sidecar Classes.
Reliability and speed are the chief requirements for ideal
motor cycling, and the results of the Colmore Cup Trial
clearly demonstrate that both are combined in B.S.A.
Motor Cycles. Remember this and
Lead the way on a BSA
Prices from £45
Send for catalogue and particulars of Easy Payment Terms
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS!
N.S.W. V
Q’LAND)
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney .
VICTORIA- FIN LA Y BROS. MOTOR CYCLES
PTYm, ltd.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne .
SOUTH AUS.-J. N. TA YLOR & CO., LTD.,
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide .
WEST AUS.-mortlock bros., ltd
890 Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA-s/m king pty., ltd.,
63 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia :
D. Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.


WE ARE THE AGENTS
bulldog "
HAMMER L£S%
THE
GREAT
AT
GUN
LOW PRICE
THE BULLDOG is the Wonder Gun for £B/10/-.
Quadruple bolted with side clips, fluid steel barrels,
guaranteed Government tested for any charge.
It fits the shoulder perfectly, and is beautifuUy
balanced.
HOLLOWAYS are the Rolls Royce of English Guns.
Nothing to touch them in the field or over the traps.
World famous, £l2 to £65.
THE FOX D.B. —Wonderful Hammerless, with or
without Ejector. They kill at remarkable distances,
£l3 and £l6.
WESTERN ARMS CO. Guns, £4 and £6. Great
Field Guns. A Week’s Free Trial Given.
Obtainable everywhere, or write the agents for
catalogue.
S. COHEN, SONS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Hardware Merchants, 262 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
Agents wanted where not represented.
HEINZ
Oven Baked Beans
Perfect, rich, golden
beans, oven-baked to
mellow deliciousness; pre-
pared with Heinz Tomato
Sauce. A delightful meal,
complete in itself.
1367
one of the
57
Varieties
GENTS
la ores
on
Prices from
22/6 Pair
Cut to your
m e a s urements
in all suitable
materials by ex-
perts, perfect fit
guz ranteed, or monev
refunded.
Send for patterns and
self measurement forms
SERVICE
STORES
262 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY Phone 83991
BARE-FANG.
BY
LON L. IDRIESS.
NIGHT. And stars large in the sky. And
darkness upon earth. But not all things
asleep. For this is Arnhem’s Land,
and untamed. No land in the world is
wilder, and it is absorbingly interesting, for
its living things are as God made them in
the Beginning. Wild men dwell there, and
the teeth of their shaggy women gnaw
greedily at human bones. Their claw-like
hands will strangle a baby should it be one
of twins. And the mother will howl hideously
in her grief if the other should die of snake-
bite.
Wild animals thrive there, caged only by
the coast. Inland are lagoons whose waters
shun daylight beneath overshadowing foliage.
Further in are hills, fantastic many of them
when setting sun or rising moon paints their
battlemented crags. There are plains, too,
waving with cane-grass and pandanus-palm
swamps. If you battle your way through
that grass you will suddenly gasp at a crash
like the fall of a door, and the grass will
tremble before you, and you will stare at two
enormous horns that from tip to tip measure
your own length, and two small eyes, possibly
red-rimmed, curiosity in them, and a doubt
whether to charge or plod warily away. As
you slip back into the gently enfolding grass
the buffalo will snort disdainfully and carry
on with his business.
As for the rest, volumes would not describe
the men, the animals, the birds and plants
and fishes that luxuriate there. It is a won-
derful land, a fascinating and perilous land.
Already its fringes are dotted with the bones
of men who have answered its. siren call.
Bare-fang, the dingo, has no illusions. A
champion of his tribe, he realises that he is
but a creature of a moment. Feared by
many, fearing few, he senses that some day
the wild will get him and just carry on as
before, none missing him, none caring. So
he lives determinedly for the day, in order
that he may see another day.
This Bare-fang is a sinewy bundle of untir-
ing muscle and snappish temper. His coat is
gingery, and his pads are made of silence.
The claws of his feet are wickedly sharp
and strong, as needs they must be to dig
out the prey which burrows deep in the hard
earth. His nose is pointed, a highly sensi-
tive organ; it is his wireless, for the cur-
rents of the air speak to him in smell. His
eyes are miracles of keenness. But such
coldly cruel eyes; there is no laughter in
them, and they change color with the day and
the night and his feelings. He is moved by
swift cunning and unerring instinct. His
flank is not gaunt, for in this country there
is abundance of game.
As day dawned he lifted his head and
with the twitch of his nostril-bristles his
eyes shaded dreamily. For he saw miles of
country, grasslands with sunlit trees, water-
ways and scent of lilies, ironstone ridges and
flowering gums. He smelled all these things;
the swiftly travelling air currents carried to
his nostrils impressions of the scenes they had
just passed over.
As he raised his head slowly to the wind
animal life was made known to him. He
sensed the wallaby, though it was over a
mile away. It was feeding just out from
the edge of a scrub in tall, blady grass upon
forest country. The heavy scent of the scrub,
with its fungus and orchid growths, came
through the air and the sunshine and sweet-
ness of the forest.
Bare-fang set out after that wallaby. He
did not trouble to trot. He was well fed,
and had taste for more tender game. He
would not have troubled the wallaby at all
except for the lust that ever nagged at him
to kill.
Suddenly he bounded upwards and back-
wards, his hair erect and fangs bared in
anger. His eyes had been green. Now they
blazed. A snake lay motionless. Its beady
eyes glittered. Its snub nose was ugly and
expressionless. Its perfectly scaled length, a
thing of satanic beauty, glistened among the
grass.
Bare-fang sprang off at a fast trot. He
would be vicious for the rest of the day.
Snakes always affected him in that way. They
bit so unexpectedly, sometimes from the un-
seen. They could poison in a second, and
it was a foolish risk to kill them.
He disappeared in a patch of scrub. In
the gloom his eyes again shone green and
expectant. He licked his chops. He was
utterly noiseless, a red shadow. The wal-
laby out on the open forest raised a pretty
head above the grass. It sniffed the air, a
gentle questioning in its soft brown eyes. But
Bare-fang had entered the scrub against the
air currents. He could smell the wal-
laby ; it could not smell him. Its blue-
grey head dropped down to feed.
Tlie end was swift. A swish with the
bound of a red body. A sound like the snap
of a steel trap. A thrashing wallaby, its
entrails slit out, a snarling dingo gnawing its
vitals. In three minutes Bare-fang was sit-
ting up licking his chops with a satisfied air.
He had gulped down only the titbits. He
disdained the rest.
Slightly appeased now that he had worked
off his rage against the snake upon some-
thing less deadly, he reclined beside his kill
and dozed. Bees hummed. A blue fly settled
on the wallaby. Another fly appeared, up in
the vast sky. It volplaned in slow, graceful
circles. Its bulk rapidly grew. It landed
with a thud on a tree overhead. A brown
eagle-hawk, with cold eyes. A crow squawked
interrogatively from the forest edge.
In late afternoon Bare-fang arose and
shook himself. Crows fluttered aside. He
snapped his teeth. A swarm of flies buzzed
from the torn wallaby. He glided away
through the grass. He would take himself
to drink. The jackals of the bush flopped
back to the feast.
Bare-fang walked leisurely towards the
croon of water. Its distance mattered little.
When he arrived the noise was a musical
crash. He stood out on a rock, gazing as if
he were lord of creation. Water swirled past
his feet, rugged peaks loomed high above,
with a patch of sky above all. Mighty things.
He was but an atom, but he had powers none
of these things possessed, and in an arrogant
way he regarded all big inanimate things as
made for him.
Back from her drink hurried a brown dingo
bitch. She showed her teeth as she passed.
He stood looking at her interestedly. Satis-
faction stirred within him as he reflected
that a day would dawn when she would
come cringing to him. He lay down com-
fortably within a boulder’s shade. He could
doze, and at the same time note every living
thing that came to drink from this frothing
pool. A white cockatoo, crest rampant,
screeched harshly at him from a tree on the
opposite bank.
* * # *
Night; and the stars and the peaceful
silence, sweet to the senses of man. But it
was camouflage, for the night was moving
with life.
Two blazing balls that were the eyes of
Bare-fang flashed and were gone, leaving
the watchful silence. A slithering, very
gentle, like the kiss of a baby-wind on
leaves, a frantic flutter, one little screech,
LOGIC ABSOLUTE.
“What’s this? Aren’t you supposed to be on
guard?”
“Yairs, but I couldn’t ’ave been, or you
wouldn’t ’ave caught me.”
and silence again. A snake eats noise-
lessly when once it has killed. A faint
crackling among the cotton-pods as an un-
seen animal passed. From under dried
pandanus leaves peeped a wee face. Such a
dainty face, tiny grey nose twitching as if
it could smell all the universe. A little
marsupial mouse was coming out to have a
look at the world, and he expected the night
to hold its breath. His beautiful eyes were
little beads, swimming beads of ruby. He
peered sharply all around. Particularly he
peered towards the stars, maybe criticising
their twinkling. You would have laughed
at his wee ears; he held them so importantly.
Bravely he hopped from the sheltering
leaves. It was a ludicrous hop, but he
thought his powers of locomotion wonderful.
In pride of life he hopped three times; and
then, . suddenly remembering that maybe lie
was shaking the earth, he tried to move with-
out noise and commotion —this mite whose
padded toes were hardly the size of a
little bird’s claws.
A twin comet bolted down from the sky.
Of molten bronze it was, but with a cruel
glare. The marsupial mouse tweaked piti-
fully as the talons gripped him. The owl
was gone in a second qnd a last faint tweak
farewelled the earth.
All the great bush cried with noises for
those who had the ears to hear. Ruthless
slaughter was being waged over hundreds
of miles of country, while countless things
that live by day crouched within the earth
and in trees and among rocks, dozing
through this war for existence.
HER WEAPON—NOT HIS.
SIIORT-SIGHTED SUB-EDITOR: “I don’t like
this brand of red pencil; it’s much too
soft.”
TYPISTE: “Silly! That’s my lipstick!”
Barc-fang sped on, every nerve a live-wire.
Pie loved the night. It was his cloak. Day
things are so much more helpless by night.
Through scrub and jungle and forest he
hurried to his favorite hunting ground. For
miles the smell of water was in his face,
and the muskiness of water-growing plants.
Enclosing all a rim of hills, vague and
shadowy and mighty like a far-flung crater
of the moon. And darkness in acre-wide
patches, with the shimmer of cold water
in between. The centre of the swamp
crater, silvery water, lay very still. The
shadows were islands of rushes, except the
moving shadows, which were cloaks from
the clouds.
Noisy life cackled all over this lonely
swamp—unseen wildfowl of many species,
ducks and swans and geese, countless, croak-
ing and clucking, cooing and honking. The
eyes of Bare-fang flamed among the reeds.
He loved this feathered life of the night:
countless things, all alive, yet each one
vulnerable to him!
A distant chorus came whirling on. It
shrilled like an express train rushing over-
head. It hardly dimmed, as, unseen, away
out in the swamp-centre a flock of whistling
ducks doused into the water. Bare-fang
licked his chops.
He worked the swamp edge. There was
no need to wet his feet. Plenty of ducks
nested in dry places. He worked noiselessly,
his ever-twitching nose parting the reeds, his
body gliding through. His nose told him
where the luxuries lay. One looked up to
glimpse his flaming eyes. He sprang, and
strong forepaws flattened the spreading
wings. Others he caught and ravened the
tender flesh to his heart’s delight among the
reeds. . .
Satiated, he desisted at last, but only
because he had whiffed the taint of snake.
He retired snarling, with bristles erect.
Heavy bellied, he walked up a gentle
rise, sat back on his haunches and
gazed almost pathetically at the stars.
Then he widened his jaws and howled, his
eyes a dull green as if clouded by tears.
The dismal howl rang over range upon
range, floating along valleys to be echoed
into other valleys by rocky crags. Yet
Bare-fang did not know what he was howling
for. He was not in love, he did not wish
for companionship, he was not calling the
pack. He did not know what he wanted,
and he was miserably happy while he cried
it to the skies.
Under a distant ridge many men listened.
Wild men, sitting around fires that were
little more than wisps of smoke. For fire
is a betrayer. Tall men they were, heavy
muscled, with weals across their chests and
backs that were the scars of warriorhood.
Their hair stood erect like sticks plastered
with sun-dried clay. Their eyes gleamed
fierce as a dingo’s, and their ears appeared
to be ever listening. They were quite
naked, as were their women, and did not
feel any incon'venience from the rough
ground on which they sat. Of the women,
as wild as the men, some had babes at
the breast, some teased their lousy hair,
some spoke the language of the eyes into the
fiercely desirous eyes of the young men.
Ten-foot spears, evilly barbed, w T ere ready to
the hands of every warrior.
As the mournful wail died into silence an
animal-like man grunted gutturally. “Bare-
fang calls to the Spirit of Life.”
“He knows not when he answers,”
grunted another.
Barely a mile distant, on the opposite
side of the ridge, two others listened. White
men, the first who had set foot there. So
far only the bush knew, and she smiles at
adventurers, but her love is cruel.
“It's enough to freeze the blood in a man’s
veins,” one whispered.
“Um,” grunted the other, “it’s like the
bottled hopes of a thousand years drifting
to Hell.”
They listened long after the echoes had
quavered away. No other sound came.
Their own prick-eared horses, listening un-
easily, wore no tell-tale bells.
“Do you think it is the Dingo-men ?” whis-
pered the first.
“Impossible to be sure. But I doubt
whether any human voice could so perfectly
imitate such a devilish sound.”
They were dicing with Fate, these two
pioneers. Arnhem’s Land holds minerals.
Some even whisper diamonds! Fortune
beckons. These two were just chancing a
hand on the outskirts. They could expect
to be clubbed into eternity should the odds
go against them.
Bare-fang shook himself to a red dawn.
He liked this day, as he liked all days. It
was certain to be filled with adventurous in-
terest for him. Each day he lived, he gained
in experience and cunning, and the know-
ledge helped him to thrust further back the
last day of all. He set about his business
and something called him to the sea.
Far away, down a bushy valley, three
hundred wild humans were happily trudging
in hunting array deeper into Arnhem’s
Land. Behind them, swiftly travelling in
the opposite direction, were two white men.
Bare-fang broke into a tireless trot, just
for the joy of motion. He pulled up where
his feet touched the ground, nose outstretched
a joyful gleam in his eyes. His delicate
nostrils sniffed at a small black hole in a
dead sapling. Rising with his forepaws
against the sapling, he eagerly chewed long
splinters from the wood. His teeth cut with
the ring of a saw. Inside the wood was a
little hollow. Bare-fang inserted his red
tongue and licked ecstatically. A swarm of
little native bees hummed against his eyes.
He licked them in with the honey. Such
be.es have but little sting. He cleaned out the
nest and stood licking his chops in delight.
He had tasted of the nectar of the gods.
I-Ie trotted on until mid-day, not feeling
hunger, travelling over wonderful country,
this lord of the wild; and then he loped
down a river bank. He had been there be-
fore, often. Now instinct told him the tide
was fallen, and for a few hours the fresh
water would overwhelm the brackish.
Half-way down the bank he eyed the
water. Innocent looking water, heavily
shaded by mangrove-trees. Bare-fang search-
ed earnestly; then there was a snarl of mal-
evolent joy in the curl of his lip. He walked
straight to the edge, all intentness. Immedi-
ately that his tongue rippled the surface,
something stirred beneath the tree shadows
to his right. It was submerged, and quite
invisible but to the most warily trained
sight. It was of huge bulk, and loathsome.
And its jaws were rowed with great teeth.
With stealthy crawl it got to within
striking distance. As it lunged forward,
Bare-fang bounded up and backwards, land
ing half-way up the bank, every hair on end,
eyes gleaming, lips upstretched, snarling a
hellish hate. The alligator was motionless.
But Bare-fang sprang as the lithe bulk
swirled and the tail flailed the bank. Know-
ing himself beaten, the lizard glided back in-
to deep water. But for long Bare-fang
stood snarling, one paw raised, a picture of
fiendish triumph.
Towards sundown he reached the sand-
hills lining the coast. Why he wanted to
gaze at the sea, he did not know. Regularly
all through life he had made this trip appa-
rently to look out over the immensity of
waters.
In depressions there grew long sweet
grasses. Bare-fang noted the snake-like
heads of plain turkeys. He licked his chops
suddenly realising he was hungry. He
marked the feeding grounds. He would
enjoy supper there. Plain turkeys are fat
and tender.
At sundown he was trotting up and over
rolling little hills of pure white sand. Under
the soft light of evening they gleamed like
snow. For miles along this strip of coast
there grows a small pine-tree, with a skin-
like bark the color of blood. Bare-fang's
coat matched the color as the setting sun
pinked the edges of the sea.
Far away out there lazed a sail.


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 ..£18,366,297
Directors ; Sir Mare Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yauwood ; H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.;
George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Brandies and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (36 Rundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors:
A. Dodds»Fairbaiun, Alfred Shepherd, James Tuke.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every descriotion of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ~ £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. 1,875^000
Long Terra Mortgage Shares .. ’374,197
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,609,655
GRANTS DRAFTS on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Lie.a Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS f or in S
periods and Jransacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
£2,000,000
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve liability of shareholders
1,250,000
. £1,250,000
. 950,000
£2,200,000
. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 109 Branches add Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
A LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices. 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney :
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne,,
to succeed —
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL & Cuo.
if you havo
Woo! & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Sired, Sydney.
f
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ .Monthly"’
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.
Shipping, etc.
MB
7!
fvT
a
imnnii
'X
tit!
■* * -
/''l'lpT’
NAD
TO
UNITED STATES
& E URO PE
NIAGARA .. 13,415 tons, May 3 7
AORANGI ... 17,491 tons, May 31 }
From Sydney for Auckland, Fiji, Honolulu, Victoria
and Vancouver.
TAHITI 7,898 tons, Apl. 19 \
MAKURA ... 8,075 tons, May 17)
From Sydney for Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and
San Francisco.
UNION S.S. CO.
MACDONALD,
And Fortnightly thereafter.
, 247 George St., Sydney, and William St., Melbourne.
HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
l 0 lll^fe ,RSIONS
JAVA (The Beautiful).
Monthly Sailings by the MARELLA (T. 7475) and
MALABAR (T. 5000), via the Picturesque Torres Strait.
Travel via JAVA to EUROPE, the Smooth-Water Route.
Solomon Is/ancfs
Full of Interest, Beauty and Romance, and
situated! only 7 days’ steaming N.-E. of Sydney.
A Regular Six-Weekly Service is maintained
by the S.S. MATARAM, a most comfortable
and up-to-date vessel of 3500 tons, visiting
approx. 30 pictur-
esque Island Ports
during a trip of
Four Weeks.
FARE—
From £34 Return.
Full Particulars from
si.
zjk
f
' ' *
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND ..
RESERVE LIABILITY
dsf
£7,494,260
6,650,000
7,494,260
£20,638,620
Direclort:
Thomas Buekland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faitnfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.O.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office— George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Xhreadneedle Street, E.C 2
617 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand Fiii PaDua
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world'
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 3,950,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,428,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE J. GOHEN, Chairman: Hon. JAMES ASHTON MLC •
Major-General the Hon. J. W. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D. ML<Y •
OWEN E. FRIEND; and Sir WILLIAM VICARS, C.B.E. '
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria, at Adelaide. South Austral!*,
and Canberra, Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other
parts of the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
•Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no cargo for Mackay),
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
at Townsville for outports).
GO NORTH TO BALMY WEATHER!
HAWAII
A complete change in a Paradise where the
average temperature is 75 degrees. Golfing,
motoring, outrigger canoeing, surf-board rid-
ing, new fruits, flowers, sunkissed beaches;
lunar rainbows gleaming through coco-nut
palms. Inter-island cruises along mystic
tropical shores; steaming volcanoes. Total
cost of 6 to 8 weeks’ round trip, with 3 or 4
weeks in Hawaii and a day in Suva or Pago
Pago, about £lOO to £l5O. Free stop-over
privileges, if en route to America or Europe.
Good hotels, usual American conveniences, 12s.
to £3 per day. Ask nearest steamship or
travel agent, or write Hawaii Tourist Bureau,
Department 26, Box 241 d, G.P.0., Sydney,
N.S.W., enclosing advertisement.
QUAINT ORIENTAL TOUCHES.
H AW All
BRISBANE, viaBYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE;
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £ 3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD..
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Huddart Parliei
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to HSVart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original..
JENOLAN
CAVES
Inclusive
Three Day
Tours
Rail & Motor
£4/7/-
Motor all the
Way,
£5/10/-
Bracing Air,
Glorious
Scenery,
Wonderful
Caverns,
Dancing,
Billiards,
Card-room
Lounge.
Tour Programme and Booking at
N.S. W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


H. G. WRIGHT
“In gratitude I am
writing these jew lines to
inform y.ou of the benefit
l have derived from the
use of Rexona Ointment.
“Recently I was spending
a holiday at Ballarat and
on my return to clerical
duties in Melbourne was
surprised and annoyed to
find a boil on my right
cheek. It continued to
swell and, though painless,
was embarrassing in its
unsightliness. I have been
unable tp discover the
origin of the eruption but
was eager for it to. dis-
appear. Instead of diminish-
ing, however, it increased
in size, lienee I decided
prompt action was neces-
sary. I first applied bread
poultices and then Rexona
dressings, and I am pleased
to say the trouble soon
subsided. The boil was
obliterated almost im-
mediately and nothing re-
mains.”
(Sgd.) Mr. lIRNRY G.
WRIGIIT.
80 Ford Street,
Ivanhoe, Vic.
All Australia Uses
Rexona —the Rapid Healer
Never a day passes but that Rexona scores another triumph over those serious troubles of
lifp TCnilq Soros Bad Less Piles Eczema, Pimples, Blotches, Burns, Nasal Catarrh, and Rheu-
matom The dain®riittfe pot of Rexona, the Rapid Healer, contains a combina-
tion of the most curative, antiseptic, soothing and healing properties known to science.
Rexona is the Skin Remedy of the Age, because it destroys the harmful germs that may
be presentsore pimple, or any abrasion of the skin, thus preventing any contagion of
the blood and at the same time causes a new, healthy skin to grow Rexona immediately
reduces the inflammation and pain; it acts as a distinct stimulant to the pores of the
and sets up a healing action immediately that increases day by day.
Bad leg-sores that have resisted every
other treatment succumb almost immediately to
its wonderful influence, while for Piles there is
nothing its equal. Rexona, the Rapid Healer,
sold only in Triangular Pots, at 1/6 and 3/-.
'R&ocmuz
Jha Rapid
fkaler
A MEDICINE CHEST
IN ITSELF
Cooling'«
/'Soothing —S
Heciling
fflnlisephcOintmenl'
It'oiirtlies S Absolutely'
Heals' Reliable
4/- /fSoolhmi\ *% A
B Jw— Healing m
= / /fflnliseDtic Ointment =~ 5*
THE RAPID HEALER
A Reliable Healer for all Eruptions
and Irritations of the 5Um. Eczema Sores. Cuts.
Bums Bruises. Soros. Sciatieo. Piles Stings of Insects,
and all kinds of Inflammation
\R EXOHA' D EPVSH E LDONDRUG'CP L TD SVONEV.^
THE TRIANGULAR BOX
■•v
'■
1
■
©
;til
ST
»
! * ' j
■
home
r
HILUERS
CHOCOLATES
“And he’s brought me
one of those lovely
Big Red Boxes!”
Made to-day and mailed
Send for Catalogue Illustrated
with reproductions of our Con-
fectionery in color.
PRICES:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/8,
20/- and 30/-
Post Free to any address in
Australia.
162-66 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE AND KING STREETS;
CASTLEREAGH STREET
{Next Theatre Royal),
SYDNEY.
The Beauty-maker.
From rocky land and rooty,
Waste land and worthless land,
One with a sense of beauty
Has made this place of roses
Whereat I, gazing, stand.
And now (since past our knowing
Bide many secrets rare)
I dream the roses, glowing
On vine and bush, remember
And praise his love and care.
Though ne’er a sign betraying,
Each gracious bloom and sweet,
It well may be, is praying
That lie who proved so tender
With tenderness may meet.
Because he made this garden
And toiled so tirelessly,
If sins are his to pardon
I pray, with all his roses,
That pardoned they may be.
Since from waste land and rooty,
Land worthless, wild and rude,
He carved this place of beauty,
Full praise should be his portion,
Full thanks and gratitude.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Mr. Blake.
[This is one of three stories by P. E. Quinn
written just before his death.]
MR. BLAKE left his lodgings in
Darlinghurst about six o’clock one
evening in summer, informing his
landlady that he was going to have dinner
in town and would probably be late in te-
turning.
He never returned.
His landlady alleged that he always paid
her promptly, but she knew nothing of his
circumstances or of his occupation. Mr.
Blake, during the twelve months he had
been with her, had behaved impeccably. He
was good-looking, she said, and not more
than thirty, she thought, tall and dark and
strong; his belongings of clothes and toilet
articles were still in his room.
Mrs. Simpson was quite satisfied that he
had intended to return to his room. Why
he did not return was a mystery to her. It
was also a mystery to the police, who were
duly informed of Mx. Blake’s disappearance.
There were no letters and no initials on his
clothes to identify him. He could not be
traced at any bank, and if he had a banking
account it must have been under an alias.
It appeared that he never received any
letters. Nobody ever came to see him. In
fact, it transpired after the closest investi-
gation by the police that Mr. Blake was
seemingly as unknown to anybody in the
great city as if he had been a leaf torn by
the wind from one of its trees and blown
out of sight, out of mind, along its dusty
streets.
The disappearance of Mr. Blake might
have been forgotten like so many other mys-
teries of a great city but for the fact that
one of the papers had something to say
about it.
“It is passing strange,” the paper said,
“that a man, on the evidence quiet, sober
and methodical in his habits, should drop out
of his place in life and disappear as com-
pletely as if he had been spirited away. In
a big city there are many unknown indi-
viduals who seem bent upon concealing their
identity and who have no social points of
contact with other individuals. Still, even
the most isolated unit of this isolated band
has relations, cursory and casual, with
society. Tradespeople know him. He per-
haps goes to a favorite bar to have a drink,
or to the tobacconist, or in a dozen other
ways he becomes known slightly to the
neighborhood or beyond it. Big as the city
is, everybody is known to somebody. In the
case of Mr. Blake he appears to have been
known to nobody. He dropped out of his
place and has not left a ripple on the surface
of the life he left. Is it a credit to our police
force that a man can disappear so absolutely
from our midst that no trace of his passing
can be found by the detectives? The public
has some interest in the auestion ‘Where is
Mr. Blake?’ We look to the police force
for an answer.”
This article shook up police headquarters,
and the detective force was instructed to
concentrate on the case of Mr. Blake. A
police reward was offered for news of the
missing man. A full personal description,
supplied by his landlady, was printed. That
was all the police had to guide them.
Conductors on the trains and' the clerks
in the booking offices of all passenger
steamers were made familiar with the descrip-
tion of Mr. Blake, but by none was he
recalled. The police of other States were
instructed to watch out for the “tall, strong,
dark” Mr. Blake.
It was all in vain. The detectives, as in
all these cases of disappearances, were in-
undated with letters and personal informa-
tion from the public; but, as invariably also
happens, all these clues were worthless and
very many were wild beyond belief. Qne
suggestion was that a hairy wild man be-
lieved to be at large in the Pilliga Scrub
would be found identical with the missing
Mr. Blake. But as the hairy wild man had
not been seen for about two years, the identi-
fication was unsatisfactory.
But that suggestion was not so wild and
strange as the information given to the
detectives by Johnson, who kept the boot-
repairing shop at one corner of the street
in which Blake had lived for twelve months.
On his way to town, Blake usually chose
a route which took him past Johnson’s shop.
Johnson saw him nearly every day going out
and sometimes returning to his lodgings.
After a while Johnson became interested
in Mr. Blake from a professional standpoint.
“I wondered,” he said, “where this bloke
got his boots mended. He never came to
my shop for any repairs. Not that his boots
ever seemed to need repairing. He walked
very lightly, but no matter how light a man
is on his boots he must wear them down
sooner or later. Perhaps he took them some-
where else. He was no good to me as a
customer.”
Then Mr. Johnson spun his fairy tale.
“I closed up the shop one evening and
went out for a walk. As I left the door this
Mr. Blake passed me with his curiously light
tread. He walked down the street in front
of me and I found myself admiring his tall,
fine figure.
“While I was watching him something hap-
pened which you won’t believe. In fact, I
don’t believe it myself, which is why I never
mentioned it until you came to make inquiries
this morning. It was dark, certainly, but
I could see this Mr. Blake quite plainly
about fifty yards ahead of me. Suddenly I
could not’see him. He was gone—vanished.
One moment he was striding along the pave-
ment and the next there was nothing. I
was so struck with wonder that I looked
up in the air to see if he had floated away.
But there was no sign of him. I kept on
for about fifty yards and then I saw this
Mr. Blake walking along as before. I thought
some stroke had happened to my eyes. Per-
haps it did. But, as 1 walked on, the same
thing happened or seemed to happen again.
Mr. Blake disappeared and reappeared five
times before we reached the tram corner. He
was like one of those lights in the water on
the way to Manly at night, now in, now out.
The sight of a man winking in and out like
a harbor pilot light was too much for me.
I turned round and hurried home, took a
big glass of rum and went to bed. Next
morning I concluded to say nothing about
it. Ninety-nine people out of a hundred when
asked to decide whether I was dotty or that
a man really walked along the street, dis-
appearing and reappearing, would of course
decide I was suffering from white ants in
my attic. As I told you, I don’t believe it
myself, and I ask you to oblige me by keeping
it out of the papers. It wouldn’t do me any
good with the people about this localitv.”
The detectives made a note of the story,
and as hard-headed individuals put it down
to some aberration on the part of the boot-
maker. The idea of looking for an inter-
mittent man was not within the police con-
ception of possibilities. Detective Brown
put it that the rum which Johnson admitted
having taken after his vision was not his
only one. To this his companion grunted
assent.
But a still stranger story bothered the
police. The day of Blake’s disappearance
a man was admitted to the casualty ward of
the City Hospital, unconscious apparently.
The house doctor saw him but was unable
to diagnose his complaint and decided to
leave him until the next morning, when he
would consult with an eminent visiting phy-
sician who was one of the honorary staff.
But early the next morning the wardsman
came to his room breathlessly and told him
that this particular patient had disappeared.
“llow do you mean?” said the doctor —
“Gone?”
“Like a bubble,” said the wardsman.
“Vanished.”
“But,” said the doctor, “he was in no
condition to get up, dress and walk away.”
“That’s the strange thing,” said the wards-
man. “He did not dress. His clothes are
still folded up beside the bed. He must have
gone away naked.”
“Oh, come,” said the doctor, scornfully,
“how far would he get without clothes even
if he got outside the gates? Who saw him
go?”
“Why, nobody saw him go. I tell you
lie didn’t go. He vanished.”
On investigation the doctor found the
story quite correct. The bed was empty.
The man’s clothes were folded up. The
affair was so mysterious that the hospital
decided to keep quiet about it pending fur-
ther developments. But there were no
developments. No naked man had been
captured in the street, or even seen.
Then the story of the missing Mr.
Blake came out. The hospital attendants
all agreed that the missing hospital patient
closely filled the description of Mr. Blake.
The police were informed, and the two de-
tectives who had interviewed Mr. John-
son the boot repairer, were detailed to go
to the hospital. They could make nothing
out of the story they heard. Unlike
Johnson, the Hospital authorities could
not have been accused of rum. In despera-
tion the detectives asked to be allowed to
examine the missing patient’s clothes.
They were led by the house doctor to the
wardrobe in which the clothes had been
hung.
Here a surprise awaited them. There
were no clothes. The garments had dis-
appeared. The detectives looked at the
doctor. He shrugged his shoulders.
“All this sort of thing is outside my
department,” he said somewhat sharply.
“Investigating this sort of thing is your
work,” he went on; “go and do it.”
The detectives thought of the clothes in
Mr. Blake’s room at Mrs. Simpson’s and
decided to have another look at them on
no ground in particular. When they arrived
at Mrs. Simpson’s another surprise awaited
them. Blake’s room was empty. All his
clothes were gone and everything else apper-
taining to him. Mrs. Simpson could offer
no explanation.
“After he went,” she said, “I locked his
room up.”
“With all his things in it?” Detective
Brown asked.
“With all his things in. The door
has been locked ever since. No one has
been in it. No one could get in excepting
me and Mr. Blake. He had the other
key.”
“I wish I had the key to this mystery,”
said Detective Brown, “but it’s beyond us.”
In truth no trace was ever found of
Mr. Blake or of the missing patient who
disappeared so weirdly from the bed in
the City Hospital.
The house doctor was talking on the
subject of the elusive Mr. Blake with the
eminent visiting physician before mentioned,
who was a student of the psychic, and to
(Continued on next page.)


wunj ynohuuoy
T&pnffl vrfaty
'**m
Mg
IT*-'
v.
j-
=>\
Hf .ririr
fe
-j]
lli 'll ill ill
□
A
rfX
mm
Hi
“Ideal” Domes-
tic Boilers are
also the cheap-
est and most
efficient for
supplying con-
tinuous hot
water to Bath-
rooms, Sinks,
or wherever re-
quired.
Full particulars
on application.
Central heating—by which is
meant one “Ideal” boiler cir-
culating hot water through
radiators placed in as many
rooms as are required to be
warmed —is effective, proved
and the most economical heat-
ing yet devised for cheaply
heating large buildings.
IDEAL
I RADIATORS
3. & BOILERS
Ideal Radiators maintain a
temperature of 70 degrees—
and any member of the house-
hold can stoke and look after
the boiler. They heat an aver-
age-sized room for 24 hours
at an approximate cost of two-
pence. Get ready for winter
-—write now for booklet and
information.
John Banks 8 Son
Pty. Ltd.
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
that perhaps owed his commanding success
in the treatment of his patients.
‘‘You associate this Mr. Blake with our
mysterious patient?” the house doctor
asked,
“Undoubtedly,” the physician said.
“It is likely,” the house doctor mused, “but
what is the explanation of the whole
damned mystery?”
Sir Alwyn Stokes pulled his beard. It
was his habit when in a puzzled or reflective
mood.
“That is a problem which I cannot
solve. Was there any Mr. Blake?”
“There can be no doubt about that,
surely. The evidence is indisputable. I
saw the patient myself. The question is,
do we agree that a man can evaporate like
a drop of water? People there are in
every great city of unknown identity, but
so far as I know they don’t blow out as
this Mr. Blake did and leave not a wrack
behind.
“Not,” said Sir Alwyn thoughtfully, “if
they happen to be really human.” The
house physician gave a start.
“You don’t suggest that he was not a
man. do you? If so, what was he?”
“I don’t know. You have read perhaps
about Sir Oliver Lodge and Raymond.
This distinguished modern physicist believes
in spiritualism, and that discarnate spirits
have a strange power of synthesis by which
they can assemble matter freely so as to
produce clothing and other paraphernalia to
which we are used here.”
“You surely don’t credit that piffle, Sir
Alwyn?”
“But it would be an explanation of Mr.
Blake were it true. For instance, sup-
posing preparatory to a visit to our plane
he fabricated on some other plane what
seemed to his landlady to be a body and
clothes and hairbrushes and such like.”
Out of what?” asked his companion.
“From the electrons or force of which all
matter is made. Then let us suppose he
Paid his visit to earth. That would ac-
count for Mr. Blake, wouldn’t it?”
.“If we accept the impossible as a pre-
mise,” said the house physician scornfully.
‘You surely don’t?”
“I do not know what is the impossible.”
“But you don’t entertain this Oliver
Lodge humbug?”
“No. i merely suggest it as an explana-
tion in default of any other, unless we were
all hypnotised. The whole business takes
us far away from things we know of, end-
ing, I think, in the phantom-haunted field
of lunacy. Let us say no more about it.”
“But I cannot help wondering where is
Mr. Blake.”
The consulting physician arose and took
up his hat and gloves.
I wish,” he said, “I could answer the
rllmr question—Who was Mr. Blake?”
P. E. QUINN.
Len.
DAD came and went as usual, but Mum
could not hide her excitement as she
bustled around; every minute she
would open Len’s bag to add some un-
necessary article. From bending over the
fire her face was redder than usual, her
small eyes more watery and the flesh around
them more crinkled.
“Don’t forget to ask Watson about them
ewes,” mumbled Dad.
“M-m—right,” replied Len, a tall, broad-
shouldered lad of about twenty, as he looked
out from the little kitchen window.
“He’s cornin’, ain’t ’e?” said Mum, and
Len nodded.
The four people were silent. Len looked
stern and proud, young Jim pleased and
curious, Mum anxious, and Dad preoccupied
with his infirmities.
The wheels came to a standstill outside.
“Be careful,” said Mum as she kissed Len,
who went over to Dad and shook him by
the hand, looking a staunch lad with his
sunburnt, handsome face and broad shoulders.
Then he took Jim’s hand, shook it and paled
a little; but nobody noticed that, or if they
did nothing was said about it. They followed
him to the sulky, Jim carrying Len’s bag,
and formed a little group.
When Len was seated by the red-faced
nondescript man who seemed about to dis-
appear through the seat, Mum kissed Len
again and he and the red-faced man started
oir.
“Be good,” called Mum and added: “Write
as soon as you get to Sydney.”
“Them girls-!” mumbled Dad, and Jim
waved his hand. Mum and Dad, attempting
to joke, went inside again; but Jim ran to
the cultivation paddock, where the young
wheat was shooting, because from there he
could see the sulky until it entered the bush
leading to the main road. Len turned and
seeing Jim, waved; then suddenly the sulky
with the waving hand disappeared. Ji m
watched the empty road for a moment, then
threw himself down on the ground.
Inside Mum had begun washing up but
stopped suddenly and, thrusting her head out
of the small side window, called: “Eh’ Jim
Jim ! Come on there.” But she went on
ua washing up, forgetting that she
had called him to help her. She was think-
ing of Len ; how he was like one of her own.
She could not in her heart regard him as
ever having been a waif unknown and un-
wanted, though such she knew him to be
because now he had such a large elaim on
her heart. With these thoughts were mingled
strange, haunting, fugitive ideas of life and
death and the wonder of them both. Pice,
the cat, noticing her mistress’s abstraction]
sprang softly on the table, and for her
pains had the dish-cloth aimed at her.
“Len’s always bin like one of us,” said
Mum to Dad.
“Well, we’ve had him from a tiny kid.”
“An’ he’s twenty now,” said Mum; and
her voice seemed broken.
They both remained silent, and Mum went
on washing the dishes mechanically.
Mail came only three times a week—on
Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays—and
they all knew they would not hear from Lf n
on Tuesday, as he had only left on Monday;
but on Thursday
That morning Jim did not go to his work
of cutting wattle-bark to sell for tanning,
but stayed about the house. “What’s
up?” asked Mum, and the boy answered,
“Nothing”; but Dad said afterwards, “He’s
waiting for the mail time. It’s lonely here
with no one around for miles, and them two
boys got on together better’ll brothers.”
It was a mile and a half to the box, and
Jim went up at eight o’clock, although the
mail never came until about quarter-past
nine.
At dinner time Jim had not returned, and
the old people began to get worried ab ut
him, as he had taken no tucker.
I)ad s’posed he’d gone off to work without
bothering to come home.
“But he never goes without lunch,” said
Mum. “And he might ’ave brought the mail. ’
It was six o’clock and dusk before lie re-
turned. As soon as he entered Mum said,
“You’ve ’ad nothin’ since breakfast.”
“Forgot, and I wanted to finish the job
down in Lester’s paddock.”
“Where’s the mail?” asked Mum; and Dad
came in to hear the news.
“There was none,” said Jim.
Mum’s lip trembled.
“I s’pose he’s busy soilin’ the bark, so we
can’t expect a letter,” Dad said. “It’s no
small job, and I told ’im not to let it go
for less than a hundred pounds.”
“I wisht he’d written, though,” Mum whis-
pered.
When Saturday came Jim went for the
mail and hurried back with it. When he
brought it into the kitchen Mum said, “Oh
you read it for me; my glasses is not too
good.” She always said this, though they
all knew she couldn’t read writing.
Jim opened the letter. It was from his
aunt asking whether Len was coming up.
They had gone to meet him at the Sydney
station on the day they had been told to
expect him, but he was not there.
“Oh he’s hurt or dead,” cried Mum. And
tears ran down her anxious face.
There was also a letter for Dad from the
Colonial Providors Co. thanking him for
entrusting the selling of the bark to them.
“He’s sold it,” muttered Dad. “H-> mist
’ave arrived all right.”
Dad looked just the same, but Mum was
all red, and her small eyes were wet.
It was the same for three weeks. No word
came from Len, and at last it began to be
noised abroad that he had gone off with the
old man’s bark and sold it and stolen the
money.
Then Burns, the policeman, came out, a
big, red, bluff . man, but rather sentimental.
Mum asked him in and whispered to Jim
to fetch Dad. Burns sat in front of the
roaring fire with his huge red hands on his
wide-apart knees, watched the while by the
inimical Pice.
“Yes, it’s very dry it is,” he said in re-
sponse to Mum’s tactful reference to the
weather.
Dad came in and shook hands, while Mum
busied herself making the tea; but she
stopped when Burns said abruptly: “Look,
I’m out here about that boy of yours. He’s
taken your money. Do you want it back?”
Jim stiffened in the doorway listening.
Dad mumbled. But Mum came from the
dark end of the kitchen and said, “You’re
welcome to a cup o’ tea and a talk, Mr.
Burns; blit the boy’s our business.”
Jim suddenly saw Mum as a very beauti-
ful, wonderful person, and, looking at her,
he felt that he wanted to do' something
great. Her eyes were shining through the
little wrinkles.
Old Burns said “Oh” and looked at the fire
to escape the hostile gaze of Pice. “Any-
how,” he said, “the boy got the money from
the Colonial Providors Co. I know. And he
is not back yet. And he won’t come back,
nor the money either. He’s been seen.”
Burns was already some distance from the
house; but Mum called out in a strangled
voice: “The money doesn’t”....
She dropped her hands helplessly, and Jim
knew that to her the money was less than
nothing.
It was dusk now. The sun had sunk
beyond the. hills, and the keen air was like
crystal. Jim ran out to the cultivation
paddock and looked along the lonely road
where the untamed wind had made strange
footsteps in the white sand. The road be-
came a white smear on the face of the
approaching night, and the hills beyond
were already black.
Where none could see in that loneliness
the lad threw himself down and pressed his
face to the earth.
L. R. WHYARD.
Nocturne.
The small white house at the honie track’s
•end
Shines in the light of the half-grown
moon ;
Tall white gums in the river bend,
Dream to the sound of the water’s croon;
There are silver bars where the sliprails
stand.
And the great black shadows creep down
the hill
Where the home path winds in a half-hid
band
Through the pale dry grass where the
sheep lie still;
And the gleaming girdle of stars swings
bright
To the Cross hung low o’er the velvet dark,
Where the big hills crouch in the fear of
night;
And far, far off glows the ruddy spark
Of a burning log, and the long smoke trail
Drifts in soft wisps through the drowsing
trees;
A cow-bell clanks, and the distant wail
Of a swamp-bird comes on the warm night
breeze.
VICTORIA.
J. VAN ESSE.


-V'
V
::
mim | ■
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency-
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
ME WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD..
Queensland Agcnih—uOLMES & CHCItCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House/’
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
483 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Bouth Australian Agents: Messrs. BLDEB, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
“BITUMASTIC” Specialties.
TRIED AND TESTED FOR THE PAST 70 YEARS
“Bitumastic” Black Solution, to prevent Corrosion.
“Bituros,” for preservation of Drinking-water Tanks—
tasteless and odorless.
. “Bitumastic” Colored Enamels—an economical paint for
all purposes, in a range of 15 colors.
“Bituplastic.” A plastic, bituminous waterproofing com-
pound, in red and black, for Roofs, Walls, etc.
Manufacturers: WAILES, DOVE BITUMASTIC, LTD., Newcastle-on-Tyne.
SOLE AGENTS—
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
fjl«
SoP'ft
CAM
Wh\
Per
SUNBEAM, fame is world wide. Time and again
Sunbeam efficiency has upheld British prestige
on Land, Sea and in the Air, just as it has
brought lasting satisfaction to innumerable motorists.
For overseas markets the 16-h.p., 20-h.p. and
25-h.p. models are specially recommended. They
are being shipped to and are giving satisfaction in
every part of the world.
For export, all Sunbeam Cars have standard
track, a ground clearance of 9" at the lowest point,
special springing and a larger radiator with fan to
ensure perfect riding and adequate cooling under all
conditions.
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, LTD., 205-207 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUSTRAL MOTORS, LTD., Corner Hay and Pier Streets, Perth ; and Queen Victoria
Street, Fremantle.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
MANUFACTURERS:
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Wolverhampton, England.
SPECIAL EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l.
Cables: “SUBEAMOCO.” London.
1000 SATISFYING SHAVES
IN ONE
RAZOR
vV
Guaranteed &
in order for two years free
olhers
in smoc
MRAZC
msL
ds
V i
V
V/
S 3
S'
fd
CRAIG & AITKEN.6S4 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY,
fdśf
Are compounded with great care
From lngredients
Of vegetable origin
Specially valuable for their purpose
Eradicate
Most of the troubles
Arising from disordered
Stomach, liver or bowels
Eliminate waste from system
Free you from
Biliousness, Constipation,
Indigestion, Sick Headache
StimuSate
The eliminating organs
Regulate their action *
Strengthen the stomach
And cleanse the sytem
Front all impurity
Tone
The stomach, liver and bowels
Purify blood, restore appetite
CHOOSE
A KERMATH
A little care in choosing
your marine engine will
assure better and safi
boating performance. That
is why over 70% of the
world’s best boat-builders
install Kermath Marine
Engines. They demand
the best.
All parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.
C 3 to 150 H. P 'fl
1 to 6 cylinders 1
4-cycle Engines JJ
HALL BROS., Ltd.
Careening Cove
(Foot of Willoughby St.)
'Milson’s Point
North Sidney, N. S. W
Kermath Manufacturing Co.
Detroit, Mich., U. S. A.
Cable Addreaa— Kermath
MARINE ENGINES
22
This year the bigger Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
Saturday Evening Post, but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy 4 ‘The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Luncheon by'res'er vatio n'at~ Cl i f t”n ‘ Garden l'h ofe l' ' re " ’ Afternoon ‘Vea on Board
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY at3 P . m . from No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Tels.: 86276 (4 line,). 1/6 ~ ChUdren * 6<l Bydney Perrieg U(J
0»f
,\o® * 6> .
y s V e ,
\\€r tv*
>* V* '** , 4 'Jgjjy
\*j
se^e-e 0, an 4


film coi ft
/ STILL 001 N
STILL COIN
/STILL CO! it.
i STILL COIN
.T 0 $ S € T xN TO * T
: J\s W £ $}
: x \NXV V X X A\V V v\\\ o'
;S .3 3k- k kc O $
/SOkL L#oo
y $ v xX\N A\\x xx*
y. 'NfV x n y v xx\' y \\ k
v^St
Z^O XXX V- -=r—
-0 L 3 '0 T3y T* y s Ty y\ y .*>y
.<% k'Th
Al* 1820 STILL €3O INC STRt
MM 1820 STILL €3OINC STRO\
/ORN 1820 STILL CO INC STRON
/ORN 1820 STILL CO!NO STRON\
AORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONi
STILL €3OINC STRONG
STILL CO.LNC3 STRONG
BORN 1820
BORN 1820
JORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
JORN 1820
)ORN 1820
»ORN 1820
NT $ € € T* s'-'Nn 3 n' vV C ' s^ v y'-Ny y. \* yy\
k>ukk yymk k 3 RONy
STILL OOINC
STILL €3O!NO imp
lORN 1820 STILL CO!NO S
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
STILL COINS
■33 3 3\x \v ky^kk^
ORN 1820 STILL
lORN
ORN I
ORN I
ORN I
ORN 18
ORN 18
ORN 182
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
y\'
¥
m
K
V
ORN 1820 ST! I
ORN 1820
ORN 18
ORN
\W
„ . ONO
v&ijmnc
rym STRONG
INC STRONG
'GOING STRONO:
. €3Ol N€ 3 STRONii
STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL €3OINC STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG!
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
ORN 1820 STILL GOING StlfiNi
ORN IB2OJLP- *
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
ORN 1820
1820
HIGHEST
EXHIBITION AWARDS
is^ovlSwK^SsiSwiSS
Idas
SVONEV 87 OUN^ 1 -'CHRISTOS
setS^jgvsnmP
9°
—« ■!< 'V ' v • ■
JOHNNIE
WANKER
Born 1820 " Still going Strong
ft’s easy to see why
‘JOHNNIE WALKER’
has the largest sale of
any whisky in the world
«*!.,
V
r
n.
rr
