

£ 1
m
■ttf/W/r,
w
2'eZ
‘“'“OlNTMfc'^
feS
%
At
m
vi-rfo
10k
m.
§
OAGVJVNO
%
\_o YADOVA
\YA
nxSTWV.'c.u
i
i
§
V//A
wmwm
a
r-~
I
ry
i?
&
fil
i
«.*■• i,
‘h
%
u
60RD0NS
'V?
t# V
a
» £ 0
\ -r- ' /
VfZL
mzA,
•SIM
The Bulletin
THE WORLD’S BEST SHORT STORIES,
A DRAWING BY LOW .
Vol. 49.—N0. 2507.
Wednesday, February 29, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for the library catalogue and
lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to—
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. *’
[L.YSAGHT
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
If-
How so daintily white ?
Not by accident ate beauty of form, exquisite lightness, and
snow-like purity of colour seen in the Dainty White China Tea,
Coffee or Breakfast sets and other chinaware which bear on
each piece the name of Shelley. The special hardness of
texture peculiar to English Bone China, and 175 years of
hereditary craftsmanship, have made Shelley China the
delight that it is.
t 0 the attst Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Vainly White China,
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel'Lucie Attn/ell and. Hilda Cowham,
Shelley Domestic Ware, and Shelley Jelly Moulds—all British, h east
of any difficulty in obtaining write to :—T. W. HEATH
& CO., LTD., 2)1 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY-
CHINA
ytook for the name Shellci) on each piece of China
WITH
estos
Make your Home safe against fire, vermin and
white ants, by lining the Walls with Durabestos
(the Wunderlich asbestos-cement) Sheets. Unlike
timber, these Sheets are imperishable They
are inexpensive, and can be fixed with ease.
Durabestos Sheers a-re
stocked by suppliers
of building materials.
Write for book D. 4.
WUNDERLICH LTD.
Baptist Street, Redfern
Sydney
e
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
<ZJD
pa
KOPBWOKK
è
879 Kent Street, Sydney,
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed .think of
' SCHUTE,
BELL&C Ltd.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office!: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
é
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE Kills that Fly!
Although “Mustdie” is so
thoroughly destructive to
insect life, it can be used
with absolute safety, as
it is perfectly harmless to
man, beast, fowl and
canaries. Use the “Must-
die” Spreader, for it is
not only economical, but
tte powder is distributed
mustdie:
MOMfDJMMOID POWDER.
THEGRMTIHJOT QGTKCrn
V:
more effectively, and wi
want you to get the best
results out of every ounce
of this great insect
destroyer.
Sold everywhere, or
forward 1/- in stamps
to Box 1520 G.P.0.,
Sydney. u
The Red Page
Hardy and Realism
Nettie Palmer states the fundamental
aesthetic of the realist when she remarked,
in her article on Thomas Hardy (R.P.
25/l/’2S), that all creative artists must
brood. | That is not as histrionically absurd
as it seems.. The realist, at least the real-
ist of the Hardy-Moore-Joyce type, does
brood, but he does not create. In his
brooding; despair of life you find the true
basis of his art, which is fear.
Everyone except Rotarians, the neglible
clergy, the glad-book philosophers, and the
neo-glad-book philosophers of the Chester-
ton-Belloc school agrees ' that life is
thoroughly and finally unsatisfactory.
There is no need to labor on that point.
None of us who pretends to the remotest
glimmering of consciousness is deceived for
a moment by the gods’ superficial gestures
of benevolence. We realise that these are
no more than a subterfuge to manoeuvre
us into a position more convenient for
kicking. The artist who faces this life has
three alternatives—to accept it as a lolly
from Heaven, after the manner of the
Hubbards, Cranes and other cracker-motto
moralists; to destroy it with literal brood-
ing pictures of its essential filth, as Hardy
and Moore and Joyce have tried to do;
or, like the Dickens of Pickwick, like
Rabelais, or Cervantes, or Norman Doug-
las, to repudiate it with a gust of laughter
and create from it a new world of gaiety.
Hardy, I said, does not create. In fact
he destroys, by depressing our gusto for
living, with pictures of Tess and a dozen
other people reaping years of misery for
minutes of ecstasy. That sort of thing,
absurd though it is, destroys gaiety, for it
inoculates the- subconscious of the people
with the fear from which it springs. And,
of course, it isn’t even realistically true.
Women and their mistakes don’t interest
the gods so much that they pursue them
with implacable and relentless malevolence.
That melodrama does not belong to this
world where Maintenons and Lady Castle-
maines become great women. The story
of the cockney who explained that she
wore sables and pearls because she had
been ru-ined is mudh truer than the story
of Tess. But the point essential here is
that Hardy and Joyce and Zola brood over
the mud-puddle to convince themselves
that their unvital reactions to it are ex-
cusable. They want to assuf-e themselves
that misery and catastrophe succeed all
gaiety and freedom in life. Examine again
the agonies of the properly obscure Jude.
On the other hand you have Douglas and
Dickens and Morand and Rabelais using
life as material for laughter. That is the
movement of sanity and courage. Where
Hardy broods and gibbers, horrified by the
colossal grossness of the spectacle, Dickens
roars in Pickwick at its entertaining bru-
tality. Consider Sam Weller, hammering
every head in sight for no reason at ail.
This ferocity doesn’t make you look for a
halter to escape the Bedlam of existence.
Instead, it inspires an uprush of scornful
delight, which leaves you diverted rather
than tormented by the bad jokes of
Heaven. You are ready to combat life
with laughter, the one evidence of your
humanity.
What would Hardy have done with a
character like Sam Weller? He would have
covered him with lice, tortured him with
unconvincing remorse and a melodramatic
interest in Demosthenes, and put him in
the threepenny bar of a dirty Wessex inn.
And how he would have loved to brood
over Quilp and Dennis! Having surrounded
them with illegitimate children who hanged
one another on their suspenders, he would
have drawn a series of dull and depressing
conclusions upon the growth of English
slums.
So I disagree with Mrs. Palmer that the
artist who broods creates. If he broods as
Hardy broods he is oppressed merely by the
materials of art. The creator will use these
materials—a turgid mass of raw facts in
Hardy—to project upon this mud-puddle
of life an image of what it is not but ought
to be. Does Mrs. Palmer suggest that
Shakspeare broods over Falstaff and Fal-
staff s death, over Cressid, over Cleopatra,
who in life was four feet nine inches high?
Or does she believe, perhaps, that Shaks-
peare did not create? How does she fit
this definition of creative effort to Rubens
and the last movement of the Fifth Con-
certo?
B.C. PENTON.
“Soil and Civilisation"
Into this volume, by Whitney, chief of
the U.S. Soil Bureau, published by Nostrand
(New York), is packed a vast survey .of
the Cinderella of the sciences. It is treated
too, brilliantly, with the homage due to
potential royalty. Truth is not only
stranger than fiction; it is as romantic.
The writer insists that the idea of the
soil as something inert and static must be
abandoned. Soil, like man, is a living thing.
It has its distinctive color, skeleton, tendons
and muscles, colloidal linifigs,' its digestive,
circulatory and respiratory" systems; and.’
the farmer might add, its temperament and
temper. In functional activity the soil
resembles more a living animal than a living
plant.
The fanner worried with the spectre of
worn-out soils may find comfort in recalling
that Greek philosophers 3000 years ago were
speculating how long the soil would last,
the limestone valleys around Athens
are still producing satisfactory crops, and,
as far as any record can be obtained, are
producing heavier yields. Again, Roumania
is still the rich granary of Southern Europe,
as it has been since history began. True,
soil amendments, as lime, fish and seaweed
and excrements, have been used in all ages.'
But under old-time transport it is impos-
sible to conceive that any plant-food has
been brought into Roumania up to the pre-
sent. Especially must it be remembered
that the commercial phosphates, potash and
nitrates are essentially modern discoveries.
Among the Japanese, their oldest soils, in
constant use for 6000 years, are regarded as
the most valuable. Virgin soil is regarded
as wild, less known and therefore less under
control. Apparently the soil is something
age cannot wither nor custom stale.
There is no significant difference in the chemical
composition of soils as a result of continuous use
for thousands of years.
Among other reasons -for this is advanced
the continual motion of soil waters within
the earth’s crust. These waters are loaded
with minerals, including lime, potassium,
gold, copper, etc. These saturations wander
through and through the soil like lost souls,
until at length, through some change, they
come to rest at, or near, the surface. For,
as soil moisture comes to the surface from
below and “jumps off” into the atmosphere
(through evaporation), its burden of dis-
solved material is left behind. Were it not
for these replacements civilisation must long
ago have denuded the soil of many con-
stituents.
Of settlement on unsuitable and hopeless
land the writer speaks with feeling:—
The ill-famed Godwin quicksands, with all their
spectacular wreckage and mortality, have not caused
as much loss of life and property as the Norfolk
type of soils in these States (U.S.A.).
Loss of life seems a strong term to use of
the unprosperous farm, going down despite
all effort as surely as a scuttled ship. But
too often that is what it amounts to—
though after the long struggle something else
appears on the death certificate. In the
summary given of the principal soils of
U.S.A. will be found many Australian
parallels.
Man and soil are partners—and man the
superior or managing partner. The death
of agriculture, the change from fertile soil
to barren, history shows is as often due to
change in the character of the people as
to soil or climatic changes. Granada, before
the coming of the Moors and after; Syria;
Mesopotamia; Babylon, with its wonderful
hanging gardens and irrigation system—
their ruin was accomplished by nomadic
peoples overthrowing skilled farmers, the
nomadic mode of life being essentially bar-
baric and non-progressive. For a parallel
one has only to imagine Mildura of to-day
and its state when aborigines roamed over it.
Or picture the established dry farming
districts of Australia, prosperous in spite of
niggard rain and unstaple soil, suddenly
falling into the hands of a people ignorant
of agricultural science or local conditions.
The summing up of this scientist, with
his vast knowledge of the soil, gleaned from
world-wide sources, is that, comparatively
we know little of the soil. It is a power
not understood. “With 26 letters, a few
numerals and punctuation points, mankind
expresses the whole range of thought.” So
of a few elements, with infinite combinations
and modifications, are plants built up. The
soil is a dynamic alphabet to juggle with.
What unexplored territory lies within
reach! Densely crowded Japan has as much
idle and misunderstood land, possible of
reclamation, as she has under cultivation.
Germany has 6QOO square miles of organic
soils not used. Yet with this difficult, but
potentially jirofitable, land her excess popu-
lation has gone forth to colonies all over the
globe. Most countries have similar “prob-
lem lands.”
But the future is big with hope. There
has been great development in plants and
fruits and animals. Much knowledge we
have gathered but not used. From a vast
and slowly gained store we are only now
commencing an era of preventive medicine.
It is probable we are upon the eve of
similar development in soil usage and
understanding.
FRANCE MURPHY.
Llewellyn Powys
Charles Lamb said that some books were
no books at all—guide-books, dictionaries,
and such. To my mind, the books abovt
all which are books are the intimate, reveal-
lng ones written by sincere and honest
thinkers, who can write with detachment,
frankly. Casanova, Rousseau, Pepys, Bar-
bellion and many other autobiographers
wrote thus. But an account of what a man
has done and of what he has thought may
be interesting, valuable, informative, and
yet not be a work of literary art. Style
becomes a factor, to achieve which the
faculty of expression must be possessed or
cultivated.
As with plastic and pictorial art, so with
literature. The indispensable gift is that of
selection. Emphasis, accentuation of the
(Continued on page 5.)


Anthony Horderns
Offer the Best Value in Sydney.
Well-constructed Furniture
'iw ii n in
LLLJUin
r '
/S/
\y\l /\/\
it 1 nr
lull
"Dunedin” Suite, £29/10/-
The "Dunedin” Oak Bedroom Suite. Comprising: sft.
Wardrobe, with two-thirds hanging space with hat shelf and
brass rod and one-third sliding trays. Cornice is new fluted
type. 3ft. 6in. Dressing Table with bow front top; wide
mirror with narrow frame; three long drawers. Pedestal
Boot Cupboard to match. The Suite £29/10/*
c
n
m
~&\ti
Jacobean Dining Suite, £55
Jacobean Dining Room Suite, C 139. Comprising sft. 6in.
Sideboard with flush top carved edges. Two cupboards with
carved bead decoration and two drawers. 4ft. Circular Table
with carved edge, extending to 6ft. Six small and two
carver Chairs to match, with loose drop-in seats, upholstered
in Fabricoid. Tea Waggon to match. The Suite .... £55
J'-—' ■» —l.^
4
w
ifiil
J
m
i
QO
CrO
Cr-?
Oak "Driscoll” Suite, £lB/10/-
''Driscoll” Bedroom Suite. Comprising 4ft. Wardrobe, all
hanging space with rod and hat shelf, and shaped mirror in
door. 3ft. 6in. Dressing Table with wide mirror and three
long drawers* Pedestal Cupboard to match. This Suite b
offered in good quality Oak at a most reasonable price.
The Suite • ■ £lB/10/-
L MrrcSi
is
nnrm
jj
m
Vv\ \l
"Maryland” Suite, £54/10/-
The "Maryland” Maple Bedroom Suite. Comprising: sft.
Wardrobe, two-thirds hanging space, with hat shelf and
brass rod, and one-third sliding trays and shelves; shaped
mirror. 3ft. 6in. Dressing Table; shaped mirror with nar-
row frame. Pedestal Cupboard to match. Of Queensland
Maple, hand polished, lined Californian Redwood. £54/10/-
The "D.P.S.” will help you to furnish without a large immediate outlay. No interest charged
m
m
-&A
tit
7\
s£
i
Three-piece Suite, £27/10/-
"The Stacy,” Three Piece Upholstered Suite. Deeply
sprung; with spring edge; upholstered in Blue Damask.
Settee is 7ft. over all. This Suite is well made, sprung and
webbed. Price £27/10/-
OPEN EVERY FRIDAY UNTIL 9 P.M.
\ < -
SSSajK-Sk
Three-piece Suite, £35/10/-
"Waverley” Showood Three Piece Suite, polished Rosewood
or Walnut and upholstered in Genoa Velvet- Preserves its
distinctive appearance for a long period. This is a genuinely
superior Suite that is sure to appeal to those who appreciate
real quality. Thoroughly comfortable. Offered at a very
moderate price, quality considered. Price £35/10/-
(Furniture Ground Floor; carriage not paid )
Ant
Postal A ddress
and Sons, Limited,
SYDNEY.
Box No. 2712 C, G.P.O.


"THE story of Progress is now written in concrete. It will
A be written in concrete for thousands of years to come.
Roads, bridges and gigantic buildings; tanks, culverts, pipes
and drains —concrete all the way and all the time! CONCRETE
IS WEALTH !! ,
The ideal base for concrete is BLUE METAL. The future
of all concrete construction is indissolubly linked with the
supply of good blue metal. He who holds the key to inex-
haustible, accessible, high-quality blue metal can command
prosperity. The closer you test this claim the more obvious
does its truth become.
In New South Wales —where, in spite of the big operations
already proceeding in concrete, realisation of its possibilities
has only just BEGUN. The demand for blue metal is so insist-
ent that present sources of supply are unable to cope
with the majority of requirements.
nWi
V
Itl n i
-1i 1? 1
i«
mmiTn
’’lln
'TTfrrT-rrrr-rrmr
ITT n
1 m i
lit-) .
more Concrete
and still
Jfere is pour opportunity /
"The Great Northern Blue Metal Company, Limited,
has been formed to acquire and operate the waste supplies
of blue metal at Mount Bushell, Shire of Erina, including
option of purchase over the whole Basalt Metal deposit
(area about 54 1 acres). The situation of the Metal Deposit
is such that easy transport can be made to Gosford railway
station, on good roads, practically level on the top of the
plateau and gravitating to the railway station. Transporta-
tion to the waterfront will be by tramway to the lighters,
thence to the Hawkesbury River railway siding (35 miles
from Darling Harbor, Sydney). The Company, therefore,
has means of sea carriage to Sydney Harbor and all ports,
as well as by railway both north and south.
Shares are available to immediate applicants. The
Great Northern Blue Metal Company, Limited, seeks
£200,000 capital divided into £1 shares (2/6 on applica-
tion, 2/6 on allotment; balance in calls not exceeding 1/6
per month). There will be 100,000 Ordinary Shares;
35,000 £1 Deferred Shares (fully paid up to the Vendor).
50,000 Ordinary Shares are to be held in reserve (under
option at par to the first original holders of Ordinary and
Deferred Shares upon any issue made three years from
date of registration). 15,000 Ordinary Shares to be held
m reserve.
S'-
thus maKing
i
i
i
i
BLUE
METAL
an absolute/
necessity /
THE GREAT NORTHERN BLUE METAL COMPANY, LTD.
The Company has an inexhaustible supply of
the best Blue Metal NATURALLY BROKEN into
sizes suitable for the crushers. No quarrying is
required and it is not necessary for heavy costs of
removing soil overburden, boring of the hard metal
and costly explosive for blasting. The natural
formation of the deposit makes this the most easily-
worked supply of Blue Metal in the whole of N.S.W.
Think of the low production costs and
economy of working.
The full prospectus contains every detail, in-
cluding Engineers’ reports, report of Mines Depart-
ment Expert, photographs and maps. Write for it
—or simply mail the coupon appearing on this pag>’
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS.
t PORTER, Merchant, Redfern Street, Redfern.
lIENRY SHUTE, Investor, Rockwell Crescent, Darlinglmrst.
EDWARD BEALE, Constructional Contractor, 1 Bond Street
City.
W.G. ROYAL, Company Director, Carlton Hotel, Sydney.
T. M. BERRY. Contractor, Civic Club, Sydney.
Ja"®
/
co4°' ,vf
' V
V'
&
4“
V
<P*’ ° x
v «£'
&
,0*
A \V <;
f° V &
A v , ■ >
/'


THE
DOCTOR AT
HOME
AND
N URS E'S GUIDE
GEORGE; BLACK
•M B: EDIN •
AND OTHER EMINENT AUTHORITIES
The an<J Trcatnvht of rWnseA
First Aid, Nursinu. the Giro <>i the
Baby and the M.uuu- nicnt
of Children.
The
Doctor at
Home
and Nurse’s Guide
By
GEORGE BLACK,
M. 8., EDIN.,
and Other Eminent Authorities.
Postage
Bd. extra.
Price 6/6
RELIABLE AND UP TO DATE.
THE SCOPE OF THE WORK
In addition to comprehensive articles on all diseases, complaints
commonly met with, the work contains the views and advice
of to-day on
and accidents
of authorities
Keeping Fit
Food and Diets
Exercise
Sleep
Clothing
Ventilation
Sanitation
Disinfection
Isolation
First Aid
Sick Nursing
Rearing of Infants
Care of Children
Advice to the Mother
Advice to the Young Wife
The Action and Functions of the
Organs of the Body
Etc., etc.
INFORMATION FOR EVERY HOME.
A Dictionary of
Modern English Usage
1927,
By H. W. FOWLER,
Joint Author of The King’s English, The Concise English Dictionary, et<
LAST WORDS IN THE USE OF CORRECT ENGLISH.
No Student of English can afford to be without the book.
PRICE 10/-; Posted 11/3.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
essential, light and shade, contrast— surely
these are vital. Mere representation, how-
ever faithful, mere record, however detailed,
do not constitute art. Perhaps one might
adumbrate a truth if one laid stress on the
importance of leaving out. The ultimate
test of a literary or plastic work of art,
however, is probably whether or not the
emotion which produced it finds an echo in
the mind of the reader, in the sensibility
of the beholder, both being attuned to fine
sensations. Beauty of diction is at its
zenith in the last chapter of Ecclesiastes.
What it means precisely I know not—nor
care. But I defy anyone familiar with the
best in literature and of a sensitive mind to
read it without emotion. It reaches high-
water mark in the magic of words.
• Llewellyn Powys has a great literary gift.
His prose is only equalled among moderns
by that of Francis Thompson, to which, m
its almost miraculous choice of the right
and significant word, and in its musical
cadences, it bears some resemblance. But,
while Thompson is puritan and .austere,
Powys is instinct with the very Rabelaisian
gusto of life. . ,
In “Skin for Skin,” which he admits is con-
sciously artistic, though it bears no trace
of preciosity or labored effort, we have an
intimate personal sketch of a period of his
life when he was stricken with phthisis.
He has all the artist’s gift of selection and
suppression. A snatch of conversation, a
word or phrase, an allusion or a short scenic
description, all chosen for their effect with
consummate art, spontaneous though they
seem, and the picture springs to the mind’s
eye. His sentences fall with a cadence and
a rhythm like the waves. One reads a
sentence again and again for the joy of
savoring its harmony—its essential right-
ness. He writes of the English countryside
and the peasants, and we get a whiff of
Chaucer’s England. If he has a fault, and
I hold it a fault even in these spacious
Georgian times, it is that he is on occasion
too broadly Chaucerian, when to be so is
not essential to his purpose. Call a spade
a spade when a spade comes into the picture,
but do not be at pains to bring a spade
into the drawing-room for the sake of nam-
ing it. He is fond of quaint old English
words, such as “weasand” for throat. And
his images, often exotic, never seem far-
fetched, but startlingly apt.
I caught her bare hand and held it fast. It wa9
tremulous and warm like a live thrush.
He is deeply concerned with what he calls
“the emblems of mortality,” and has much
the same philosophic outlook on life as
Sir Thomas Browne, but has a lighter touch.
After that illness Powys spent five
years with his brother on a sheepfarm in
East Central Africa in search of health. A
result of this is another delightful book,
“Black Laughter,” a series of sketches of
his life on the veldt. A book of short stories,
“Ebony and Ivory,” containing some finely
written sketches followed. Many of these
stories, however, are repulsive in theme,
and are only redeemed by fine writing.
The last in this book is an essay called
“Death.” This is an exquisite piece of work,
in content and style, a masterpiece in little.
I understand that this was written in his
early twenties and was one of the first
things he ever wrote. This alone would
have stamped him as a writer with a future.
His latest book, published by Jonathan
Cape, “The Verdict of Bridlegoose,”
is his impressions of several years’
sojourn in the United States. It is in his
usual virile and outright style, is full of
interest for its matter, and bristles with
fine passages; while the even cadence of
his prose never falters. He must not be
confused with his brothers, J. C. and T. F.
Powys, both of whom have written many
novels. I have read one by each of them,
but they do not seem to me to display any of
the peculiar mental qualities or the mastery
of the significant word possessed by their
brother. While their writing is adequate,
it lacks distinction. Llewellyn is, in my
opinion, a literary artist with an original
and whimsical mind, who writes with irony,
vividness and detachment. Whether he
will succeed in writing a full-length novel,
should he elect to try this form, remains to
be seen. I shall await it with interest.
As Professor Tucker has well said, the
essence of the literary gift lies “in the
power of a writer to express himself, to
communicate vividly, without mistiness of
contents or outline, his own spirit and
vision. He is a master in the art of writing
when he can make his own mind, so to
speak, entirely visible or audible to us,
when he can express what his inward eye
beholds in such terms that we can behold
it in the same shape and in the same light.”
Llewelfyn Powys has this gift.
E.T.S.
Books Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee nominated by the Associated Book-
sellers of Australia and New Zealand: —
General Literature. —Revolt in the Desert,
by C. E. Lawrence: To-day and To-morrow,
by .T. H. Curie: Harvest of the Years, by
Luther Burbank; Winston Churchill, by
Ephesian; A Vagabond in Fiji, by Henry
Foster: War Birds, by Anon; The Bush
Boy’s Book, by Donald Macdonald.
Books of Literary Merit (Fiction). —The
Midnight Folk, by John Masefield; Gallion’s
Reach, by Tomlinson; To the Lighthouse,
by Virginia Woolf; Red Sky at Morning, by
Margaret Kennedy; The Bride’s Prelude, by
Wm. A. Sedwick.
Books for Popular Reading (Fiction). —
Romantic Tragedy, by F. E. Young; Red
Skv at Morning, by Margaret Kennedy;
Silent Comrade, by P. B. Kyne; Morning
Glory, by Henry St. John Cooper; A Cer-
tain Dr. Thorndyke, by R- Austnv Freeman ;
The Midnight Folk, by John Masefield; Rose
of the Bushlandj by James Pollard; Runm-
bede, by Steele Rudd.
A Satchel of Books
A Girl of the Islands, by J. M. Walsh
(Cornstalk Co.). This prolific Australian
writer has turned aside from the mystery
and detective story to one of South Sea
Island life. The scene is the New Bal-
carias, “the last of all the wild places of
the earth,” over which, characteristically,
the Union Jack flies. A ragamuffin of
Empire, administration there is slack and
lawlessness rules. Lyra Clayton, with a
dash of the tarbrush in her, is the central
figure of an exciting story, the local color
of which is guaranteed by the fact that on
the rude walls of the paternal mansion a
brace of cartoons from a Sydney Bulletin
had been pasted on to the rough wood and
had creased and crinkled to the contour of
the boards.” A better Island story ihan the
average, with good characterisation and
unbroken interest.
The Squatter's Secret, by Arthur Wright
(N.S.W. Bookstall Co.). The author has
contributed many sporting novels to the
bookstalls of this enterprising co., all of
them marked by a rapidity of action that
allows no time for critical analysis. Given
a horse, a heroine and a murder, Mr. Wright
can carry you along very entertainingly.
This novel is a good specimen of his work.
Sex and Repression in Savage Society, by
Dr. Bronislaw Malinowski, D.Sc. (Kegan
Paul; Robertson and Mullens). Dr. Malin-
owski’s great discovery is an island under
Australia’s mandate where there are no re-
pressions. There being no repressions, the
islanders suffer from no complexes. In this
island no Marie Stopes could make a for-
tune or even fill her riccbowl by writing
books on “What a Young Woman Ought to
Know.” If by some mischance the popula-
tion of the world were to become as the
inhabitants of this benighted isle, the musi-
cal comedy promoters and the film magnates
would join a good half of the newspaper
proprietors in a procession to the Bankruptcy
Court. On the other hand, humanity would
be comparatively free from neurasthenia,
lunacy and the habit of lying. On Dr. Malin-
owski’s island these things are practically
unknown. The rest of the book is devoted
to a rather involved argument as to the
respective merits of the psycho-analytic and
sociological methods of approaching human
origins.
Bahy Ballads, by Edyth Bavin. (Smith
and Lane, Sydney). Many attempt to write
kiddie verse and turn out matter that pleases
adults but bores the small people. Mrs.
Bavin succeeds by writing simply and cheer-
fully about ships, fairies and mice and the
other fine folk that make the world of Two-
and-a-half and Six-and-a-bit. Illustrated in
the same good spirit.
Rhapsodies of Maoriland, by N. A.
Butcher (Simpson and Williams). Display
a fair facility of verse-writing, but do not
approach any closer than that to poetry.
'Night and Morning, by 0. N. Gillespie
(Whitcombe and Tombs). A pleasing little
sheaf of verse, interesting, and especially
strong in the sharp etching out of quick,
clear pictures. Three of these pictorial
efforts —“The Sheep-stealer,” “The Singer”
and “Justice” —are very good things.
Theocritus (John Lane). The second and
seventh idylls of Theocritus, “The Sorceress”
and “Harvest Home,” translated into English
verse by Charles Stuart Calverley and illus-
trated by Elizabeth Rivers. Calverley’s trans-
lation is altogether admirable.
The Early Monastic Schools of Ireland, by
W. G. Hanson (Heffers). Four .lectures
dealing with the missionaries and scholars of
Ireland and their contribution to the life of
the Roman Catholic Church in the seventh,
eighth and ninth centuries. “When St. Pat-
rick came he came to a land where there were
already men of learning and rhetoricians
who scoffed at his lack of education.” There
then existed schools of law, history, poetry,
art and craftsmanship.
The Letters of Richard Wagner (Dent).
Two volumes as free from tediousness as it
is reasonably possible to make this form of
literature.
The Spanish Caravel, by Gerald Bullet t
(Heinemann). A long voyage to an island of
palms and beaches, pirates and buried
treasure. An ingenious trifle.
Beauty Secrets and Recipes, by Sartaj D.
Jouliar (Werner Laurie). Cheap complexions
for flappers.
Bonn's Sixpenny Library. Among the
latest additions are “Protestantism,” by
Dean Inge; “Catholicism,” by Rev. M. C.
D’Arcy; “The Life of Christ,” by Rev. R.
,T. Campbell; “The English Novel,” by J. B.
Priestley; “Oliver Cromwell,” by Hilaire
Belloc; “A History of India,” by Edward
Thompson; and “Russian Literature,” by
Janko Lavrin.
Trivium Amoris and The Wooing of Arte-
mis (Dent). Two poems by John Tod-
hunter. Graceful, musical -verse, but with-
out special distinction of content.
Death Comes for the Archbishop, by Willa
Cather (Heinemann). Under the guise of a
narrative this book describes the missionary
work of the Roman See in New Mexico. In
the picturesque recital are many touches of
human interest and types of character.
The Pastoral Loves of Daphnis and Chloe
(Heinemann). George Moore’s translation
of the Greek pastoral by Longus was origin-
ally published in a limited edition. It is now
republished in “The Windmill Library” and
is thus brought within the reach of all
interested in what is admittedly one of the
most beautiful of the Greeek pastorals done
into English by a master of the English
tongue.
Lions Led by Donkeys, by P. A. Thomp-
son (Werner Laurie). In the main, a dis-
cussion of the mistakes which the author
thinks prolonged the Great War. Incident-
ally, Champion’s “Lions Led by Asses,”
descriptive of an Australian strike and its
leaders of 30-odd years ago, was a neater
phrase.
Answers to Correspondents.
. , , , „j,nrnrtpr) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
A ° Tame anTaLlss MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tartly submitted ; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
.Charles F.: Amateurish... .J.McK.: The
hen item is not a good lay... .M.L.P.: ‘ Dulcie
stirred no interest... .A.L.G.: The good idea is
cumbered with pseudo-technicalities... .D.H.E.: Not
much of an adventure.. . .Ed. G.: Might have been
a good story if it let us know what really happened.
....Jack W.: “Companionate Marriage” didn’t in-
trigue u 5.... Richard R.: Your skill doesn’t match
your sincerity... .G.R.G.: Bright, but not enough meat.
. 1). W. 8.: It’s best value is as a satire, and as such
it doesn’t bite enough... .D.F.8.: What an awkward
last line! J.A.H.: Your escaped gaol-bird is a
commonplace figure. .. .D. 8.: Verse on the bush gets
itself bushed W.S.C.: Your sea verse was evidently
written on the mountains, and your ode to the
mountains at sea.... Dora Q.: A our typewriter made
it “Bragden was building up hops for the future.
That was the part we liked. .. .Z.V.W.: Don’t send
ua decrepit nightmares. If you get a bright new
one, you can trot it out. . . .M.F.M.: They fall by the
wayside Mild. B.: Black Brother is a tame
specimen W.T.W.: Not convincing R.M.: This
is a pleasant picture:
Far below the spray-swept cesspool
Swirls in melody sublime.
J.W. (Dunbar Springs): One may do’; but you
do stretch it out!. .. .W.J.M.: “Heart failure due to
excessive hallucination” was a noble verdict, but not
quite convincing... .J.K.: Not O.K Roy C.: It
won’t go G.P.S.: “To Hell” is damned Stella
B.: “Naught can I say”—and you say it in 200
words Erskine D.: As a true patriot you should
applaud the suppression of “To My Country”....
T.S.G.: Unconvincing melodrama. .. .K.P.G.: Dreary
stuff A.A.W.: The story that runs to 5000-odd
words is too long. And your story doesn’t run, either.
R.L.W.: Commonplace spieling yarn J.M.N.:
No interest in the face “I know for Mine Own”. .
W.M.8.L.: Much-worked theme. .. .G.0.A.: “Fear”
gets no nearer. “Darkness” is good as fai as it
goes, but lacks an ending... V.G.W.: Unfinished
stuff R.A.G.: Not a shred of humor Chas. O.:
Story might suit Mirror; verse fails.. ..William
F.: Idea of the dog chasing sticks for the angels
should not have been treated so dashed seriously
Bellerive: Your brigand gets its space:—
In the heart of the city,
Towards the hour of twilight
I observed a horsestinger
On its wanton flight.
Enjoying its freedom
It did circle and play,
To the top of a building
It winged its way,
Where it rested awhile
And again cleaved the air—
The rapid-winged viper
And devil-may-care.
It fluttered and capered
In wanton delight,
And disappeared in a crevice
To rest for the night.
....Philo: Most of your efforts need just a little
more polish R.L.P.: Doesn’t move quickly enough.
.Paul C.: “Acid Tests” failed to pass the one we
applied E.M.S.: A poor trifle. .. .C.L.C.S.: Written
like a daily-paper item... .R.F.S.: Sketch has par
value only; verse terrible.... R. Glad: We’ll be the
mug—why do you weep ? Sonnet needs polish sixth
and seventh lines for instance. A good idea....
S.M.: What precisely is meant by “Not for aught
am I thy true son, Thine, oh, school to me so dear !’’ ?
GBP.: Does a “fragrant flower” give you merely
“shade to dream in” ?... .T.McC.: Stories of old
drunks should have more spirit in them P.J.M.:
“Southerly Buster” was a blow to us... .P.J.H.:
Buried in the w.p.b W.S.C.: They’re interesting;
but we look to Australia and its surroundings for
settings of our yarns. Anyway, we do not want
syndicated matter. .. .A.M.T.: “Storm” blew itself
0ut.... Anon: “Folly” is meretricious Edna W.:
Keep on. The stuff has good points; practice will
give you facility of expression J.S.: Glad to
hear that at Kingaroy
Traders leave an open till
That likely buyers may gauge the goodwill.
But 350 lines on the subject is too much N. 1.:
Ulic was discussed recently ; can’t spare space again
so soon L.T.McG.: You leave everything suspended.
And don’t even say “To be continued in our next.”
.... Linden V.: Quite as much verse is being printed.
The only difference is that it keeps company now
with literature instead of with advts 0.C.W.:
Is it a poem or a puzzle?. .. .North Star: Not quite
brilliant enough to make us blink; but some nice
color in it. Try to get in more substance Fescue:
Too much murder and misery in stock. Invent some
grins for a change.... Dorothy H.: Too obstetric;
and there was no need to make it 50... .K.P.M..
You suffer from an untidy mind M.J.: On that
subject we’ve wandered off our beat far enough....
A.CJ.W., H.K., Q.G.M.: Parker P.: Printable; but
not outstanding... .S.N.R.: Always you’ve got ideas,
and always you’ve also got too little respect for
space.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.M.: Patient with toes pointing skywards dis-
charged... .T.H.: They’re getting better, but your
penwork is still too shivery S.D.: Obviously you
have never attended a “life” class... .L.L.: Gleams-
here and there, but you have a great deal to learn.
C.B.M.: Joke and drawing alike hopeless
R.N.: Nothing like him. .. .W.11.C.: More like a foot-
rule than a flapper... .E. A. 8.: Joke mouldy; sketch
suggests that you can do better D.R.: No life
in ’em W. 8.: Illustrated rhyme concerning the
Town Hall and the Film Censors is the week’s
puzzle C.K.: Neither gags nor designs come within
a mile of acceptance... .J.S.: Sorry, but the
stamped and addressed envelope had to be used
W.R.: Linework too fine for reproduction, and joke
too thin. .. .E.R.W.: Gins on horseback not allowed
to start... .1.D.: Leaves us c01d... .C.S.G.: No use
for that kind of illustrated verse E.P.: Why
didn’t you plant the drawing with the bulbs ? J.N.:
Scratchy and distorted.... E.S.: Three also-rans....
F.X.S.T.: Not enough in the gags and too much
in the sketches. .. .W.T., L.W.C. and A.E.K.: Un-
suitable.


7
fIS
, r
0318
V
■■■■’■■
w-
>%
ft
II
iflkm
C
■
i i
»SfP"
m * *;,«, mm
ii
fin
1: ,S
1
"m
mm tm mm
lit
-,■
i
■ i r
i *•
m
V
\
<V«.
5
-
a
■-/ i
/
V/:
* 'ciift '/i i i/
WMm.v * i r
Jr r ? I v
f I
Ik
Ik
.ak
WwF : ■•
■I
Western
r i
iv\
Out registered Great Western
Sparkling Wine label has been
shamefully copied. We warn the
public against spurious imitations.
e


The Bulletin
Vol. 49—No. 2507.
February 29, 1928.
THE INDUSTRIAL CONFERENCE TEA-PARTY.
THE MAI) HATTER: “Well, there’s one thing, if,those other fellows don’t come, there’s less likelihood of any argument.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £ 1 J,s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Uusiness Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to liox 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused. ,
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, nhether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
innn exceeding tivo columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no M . S .- tuill be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs In Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which lias to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in the Main Hall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.Ji; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.i;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” 1,11,-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.C.3.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg - Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley: and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 217 Hastings
Street West, Vancouver, B.C.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
US.A.— Chicago: J. Roland liay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan lloulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and I,2nd Street, New York City; Ilotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West I,lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co.. Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 701, Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.: The Wide World News
Stand, 51,1 f South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Walter News Agency, Box 573 Arcade Station, Los
Angeles, Cal.
Kgypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, S.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall.
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon.— T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy; M.
Atmaram and Sons, 1,1, Chatham Street, Fort Colombo;
A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby,
f'Lir. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.1,.
U.S.A. J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulcvarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, Neiv Zealand and Fiji;
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: l,oz. to 10oz., lid ; each
additional ),oz.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l,oz. or part thereof
Id. Elsewhere, 20z.. Id.
Iffie'lß'ulZelzn.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 1928.
THIS BROADCASTING.
The Postmaster-General recently com-
manded the A-class wireless broadcasting
stations in Sydney and Melbourne to “co-
ordinate and improve” their services. Non-
compliance with the instruction would be
remembered, he menacingly added, when
licenses came round for review in 16 or 17
months. After a fortnight or thereabouts
it was announced that 2FC and 2BL, Syd-
ney, had arrived at an agreement that would
“ensure a maximum of efficiency and variety
and eliminate duplication.” A similar com-
munication is expected from 3LO and 3AR,
Melbourne. The Minister’s very unusual
action may therefore seem to have been
justified. But the quality of the services
supplied under the arrangement brought
about in so extraordinary a fashion will
provide the real test. And there will be no
greasy laudation of the good Gibson on
the part of entertainers who lose their jobs
as a result of his insistence on “co-ordina-
tion.”
* * * *
Past proceedings of Gibson’s department
in the matter of broadcasting inspire no
confidence as to the wisdom of this latest
move. It allowed a small Sydney station
to come in with a wave length that pre-
vented many owners of crystal sets from
enjoying A-class programmes. When re-
ceiving licenses cost 275. 6d. p.a., it graci-
ously accepted payment in half-yearly
moieties, charging 2s. 6d. p.a. for the accom-
modation. On the fee being reduced to 245.
p.a., it announced that it could no longer
accept half-yearly payments, as they were a
beastly nuisance. However, those who had
paid 15s. in December, say, would have to
bring along another 15s. in June—no reduc-
tion for them! The annoyance incident to
accepting the second 15s. could have been
avoided, along with the cold-blooded extor-
tion decided upon, by letting people pay 245.
for a full year when their six months had
expired. But this obvious solution did not
occur to the fatheaded department.
* * * *
It has been repeatedly alleged that the
broadcasting companies are making exces-
sive profits. But, according to the depart-
ment’s own figures—collected in response
to a question asked by a Federal member
and published during the recess, apparently
as a sort of excuse for the “co-ordination”
mandate—some of the stations are running
at a considerable loss and others, though a
bit on the credit side, would have done
better had they put the same amount of
money into Commonwealth Government
securities. Of 3LO, however, it is asserted
that £lll,OOO has been distributed since in-
corporation in “directors’ fees, dividends,
shares or bonuses.” This has been denied
by the company, which has declared that
its profits have amounted to £22,200 in
three years; but even if the larger figure
is the real one the total is small compared
with the tribute collected during the same
period by the tribe of shop bookmakers
who are indebted to Gibson’s department
for the means of carrying on their useless
and unornamental trade. Gentry of this
description were lavishly provided with
telephones for the booking of illegal wagers
on which no tax is paid when thousands of
genuine applicants for ’phones were told
that they would have to wait many
months. And the McShortodds clan pays
no £420 a week “in fees to artists alone,” as
is grudgingly admitted to be the case with
3LO.
* * * *
Much of the current criticism of the
broadcast programmes is ill-informed and
unfair. It obviously emanates from the
kind of Australian (too numerous unfor-
tunately) who delights in depreciating the
work of other Australians and running
down eminent fellow-countrymen when they
return from abroad. It would be more
generous and more truthful to acknowledge
that the broadcasting companies have kept
a fowl in the pot for many clever show
people in slack periods, have provided
opportunities for a surprising number of
gifted young musicians and the like who
would otherwise have found it difficult vo
get a hearing, and have done at least a
little for native-born composers and play-
wrights—may they do a lot more! In any
case, nothing is to be gained by butting into
their business in the fashion of meddling
politicians. The stations should be made to
understand that Australia expects them to
do their full share in bringing the benefits
of broadcasting to the widest possible
public at the cheapest possible rate, with-
out sacrificing merit to cheapness. But
threats and kicks are not likely to do any
good. Neither is “nationalisation,” on
which some foolish people have set their
hearts.
PETROL AND GREASY SUBSTANCES.
“The Government has undertaken to pursue scien-
tific investigation into the coal resources of South
Africa with a view to encouraging the production
of oil and petrol. If black coal should be amenable
to the new process, scientists hold that South Africa
will be able to sell petrol at less than half the
present prices, and should produce oil more cheaply
than the imported article. A member for Namaqua-
land stated that unlimited quantities of brown coal,
suitable for the production of petrol, are to be
found in that country.” —Cable from S’Africa.
It is a promising line of policy, and it is
to be hoped that Australia will move with
seven-league boots in a similar direction.
During last financial year it paid away
£6,707,351 for imported petrol. That was
some £3,600,000 more than the amount
spent abroad in 1921-22, and there is every
sign that the bill will continue to grow un-
less this country learns more self-reliance.
In addition four more millions went out in
payment for kerosene and other greasy
substances. On the other side, £980,254
came into Australia in payment for ex-
ported coal; but this is a perishing source
of revenue, because Newcastle controls the
coal export trade, and the supply is ren-
dered precarious through Newcastle averag-
ing a great deal too much stoppage per
annum, causing high prices and other draw-
backs. In 1925, w'hen the falling off became
really noticeable, the countries which
showed a definite inclination to do without
our black fuel included Chile (drop from
109,600 tons in 1924 to 4600 tons in 1925),
Philippines (175,400 to 112,000), Straits
Settlements (110,700 to 37,100), Maoriland,
India and a few more. Yet if we don’t
export to pay for our imports—petrol among
them—we can only get the goods (1) by
making them or a substitute ourselves, or
(2) by going into debt to buy them. And
the process of going into debt has its
limits.
* * * *
When Australia is able to put motor
spirit on the list of prohibited imports, it
will have made an important step towards
industrial independence, and have begun to
learn the great lesson of self-reliance. It
will likewise have stopped one big and ever-
increasing financial leak, and got some mil-
lions per annum further away from the dizzy
rim of national insolvency. If it is true that
motor spirit can be made by the new pro-
cess for less than present prices, it is a
good thing. But even if it costs more by
the new process than importers’ prices
amount to, that doesn’t matter much. The
essential is that our country should work
the new or any other process with such
energy that it will be in a position to turn
off foreign supplies at the meter. The bal-
ance of trade demands that something
drastic should be done in some direction,
or in many diro'^ions.
* * * ,-ji
When a nation has its own ships on every
sea, as is the case with. Britain, and is a
mighty collector of tribute in the shape
of freights, there is much in the theory that
the mere swapping of commodities is a
great source of wealth. Carthaginians,
Dutchmen and others proved it. But when
it sends out and brings in goods with hired
vessels, and pays freights instead of receiv-
ing them, the position is very much
changed; and it is no better if the State
keeps a few overseas craft which are
called its own, but which really belong to
rapacious foreign creditors. And if the
nation borrows a lot of foreign money to
pay for foreign goods, such as petrol,
brought to it in foreign-hired ships, the
position isn’t improved—it is aggravated.
* * * *
The bright and shining prospect of doing
without some trade, and manufacturing in-
stead, inspired the Afrikander Government
to such energy that someone thought it
worth while to send a cablegram about its
doings. Whether the Bruce-Page Ministry
is moving in the matter is not clearly
known. Yet it is an affair of more import-
ance than all the Federal loan schemes for
putting farmers on State lands, whence they
so often gravitate to the State capitals in
search of permanent quarters. Australia
specialises to some extent in dairy farming,
yet in an ordinary year the value of its
net exports of dairy goods doesn’t pay for
its imports of motor fuel. This oil matter is
also of more account than Bruce’s house-
building and road-making devices, they
being calculated to make more foreign debt
and take more money out of the country,
while a successful petrol industry would
prevent money going out.
IF YOU SHOULD NEED A SURGEON.
Three months ago 1 tried to give the public
a little free advice on the choice of a
specialist (B. 17/11/’27). “Another Quack"
(B. 24/11/’27) succeeded admirably in draw-
ing a red-herring across the trail by com-
mencing a discussion on the point whether
the general practitioner should do his own
surgery, or refer his cases to a surgical
specialist. This correspondent jumped to
the conclusion that 1 was a practising sur-
geon. He is wrong. As a consulting phy-
sician, I am able to look down from the
Olympian heights and watch the work of
my surgical colleagues as an absolutely
unprejudiced observer. “Another Quack”
will realise, then, that I have no financial
axe to grind; I simply picked out the
doctor “who does his own surgery” as an
example in support of my general thesis.
It would appear that no correspondent took
any strong exception to my general state-
ments. The Bulletin has suggested, there-
fore, that I “close the case” and give my
views on the one point that was seriously
attacked, namely, Should the G.P. do his
owm surgery?
Many hundreds of lives are saved in
Australia every year by the surgical skill
of Australian general practitioners. There
are few country doctors who have not per-
formed operations of an urgent character,
under the worst possible conditions, and
upon patients who are desperately ill. Such
feats, occurring in vast countries with scat-
tered populations, are epics of surgery." And
I yield to nobody in my admiration for that
type of practitioner who, although he feels
that he is not fully equipped to undertake
the task, is willing to perform a big opera-
tion in order to give his patient the only
chance of recovery. Few laymen will realise
the mental strain imposed on a doctor
under such conditions.
If the G.P. confined his surgical activi-
ties to this type of case there would be
no point worthy of discussion. But your
operating G.P. does not, in point of fact,
restrict himself in the slightest as regards
the magnitude and variety of his opera-
tions. Trading on the ignorance of the
public, and fully realising that there is a
great deal of money in the knife, he will
literally do anything. In the vast majority
of cases the results are most unsatisfactory.
In some cases they are appalling. The
public, of course, regards “surgeon” and
“operator” as synonymous and interchange-
able terms. This is a grievous error. When
a patient consults a man who devotes the
whole of his professional life to the prac-
tice of surgery, he pays for, and has a
right to demand, the best advice as to (1)
the necessity for an operation at all, (2)
the best time to operate, (3) the correct
operation to be performed, (4) the' gen-
eral outlook on the case, etc. It is
the sound surgical judgment that counts.
The mere carpentry end of the business is
of minor importance. It is a consideration,
but not the consideration. To acquire this
skill in diagnosis the training of the sur-
geon is arduous, the discipline stern. This
degree of proficiency cannot possibly be
attained by the general practitioner. It
would be unfair to expect it.
Not a week passes in my private or public
hospital practice that I do not see cases of
chronic ill-health due solely to meddle-
some and inefficient surgical capers on the
part of some suburban would-be Alexander
MacCormick. And my experience in this
regard is not unique. The vast majority
of these cases are errors of surgical judg-
ment, not of surgical technique. Listen to
Sir Berkeley Moynihan, president of the
Royal College of Surgeons of England, on
the subject:—
“It is natural for u s all to delight in works
of imitation, but in imitation there lies a
great danger. Many of the operations in
surgery have now become so standardised,
so perfected and simplified by a multitude
of workers, that they can be imitated by
others with a degree of success which,
though falling short of the best, is yet, by
comparison with the results of a generation
ago, worthy of high praise. This has un-
happily led to the too frequent performance
of operations, and to their performance by
those whose judgment has not kept pace
with technical accomplishments.”
We are now in a position to lay down a
few simple rules for those unlucky people
who may happen to require the aid of a
surgeon:—
(1) If you are informed by your own
doctor that you require a surgical operation
for the cure of your particular symptoms,
suggest to him that you would like to have
the opinion of a surgical specialist. If you
cannot afford the fee for a surgical con-
sultation you can always be seen at a public
hospital as a “charity” case. (That is, if
you are genuine in your poverty.) The
honest general practitioner will always
welcome a consultation with a surgical
colleague. The dishonest one will either
pooh-pooh the idea as being unnecessary, or
tell you not to come again if you have lost
your faith in him. Under those circum-
stances it will be much better for you to
stay away. Both of these attitudes are
quite unjustifiable, and typical of the am-
bitious suburban surgical tyro.
(2) If the surgeon tells you that the
operation is a trifling one, and that it can
be well performed by Dr. X, then there
is no harm done. The one consultation fee
that you have paid is merely a kind of
insurance.
(3) Operations are expensive things and
you must not be frightened by a fee. A
good fee for a good job should be your
watchword. One hears a great deal about
the extortionate fees that are charged by
surgical specialists. On the contrary, the
surgical fees in Australia are on the low
side. Also, many general practitioners
charge just as much as, if not more than,
some surgeons. You will then be in the
idiotic position of paying the top price for
an inferior article.
(4) Finally, if your own doctor and the
surgeon co-operate on your case you are
entitled to know precisely where every
penny of the fee charged is going. In other
words, do your best to see that the disgust-
ing and unethical practice of “fee-splitting”
is not being indulged in.
QUACK.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Hooray, Hinkler!
The arrival of the Queensland-born aviator
Bert Hinkler at Darwin, after a record-
breaking flight of 16 days from London, has
several points of interest apart from the
feat itself. Though the fifth successful flight
to Australia, it was the first in which the
aviator had to rely on himself alone in all
emergencies. Only one other aviator, Lind-
bergh the American, has succeeded in a
long flight under such conditions. But he
had the advantage of making his trans-
Atlantic flight in one “hop” from point to
point. The 10,800 mile route from London
to Darwin necessitated 15 landings and take-
offs; and both are fruitful sources of dis-
aster. Further, the machine that Hinkler
used was not a specially-built trick ’plane,
but one designed and sold for everyday
use. Certainly, a super-expert was in charge,
but the flight has indicated that the aero-
plane is fast approaching the category which
the once-dreaded motor-car occupies to-day.
There is another aspect which should
engage Australian interest particularly. In
the last stages of his flight Hinkler “hopped
off” from two countries held by foreign
Powers, Java and Timor. Neither the Dutch
nor the Portuguese are dangerous neighbors,
but Holland, at least, might be ranged with
an enemy some day, or, as in the near past,
be an indifferent neutral. Timor would be
an easy prey for a raiding expedition to
Australia. Hinkler’s flight has emphasised
the lesson already imparted by earlier fliers
to Australia, that Timor is an ideal base
for an attack on Northern Australia, and
the possession of the island by an enemy
would solve all problems of reconnaissance,
aeroplane carriers and the respective merits
of sea and land ’planes—problems that must
always engage the attention of an overseas
expedition attempting a landing on an
enemy coast under modern conditions.
Timor is never likely to be at the disposal
of an enemy save by the agency of force, but
it has become evident now that Australia’s
isolation is a thing of the past, and that
there is more than one -point d’appui close
enough to our shores to invite an enemy’s
attention. The most dangerous of these


was fenced off long ago, when far-seeing
Thomas Mcllwraith annexed all New
Guinea east of the Dutch border, and was
generously allowed to retain what is now
Papua. But the threat of German New
Guinea always remained until the war
brought it back into Australian hands.
Some day an attempt will be made to have
this flanking outpost handed back to its
pre-war possessors, and there are certain
so-called Australians who desire to see that
done. Apart from the intrinsic value of the
Territory, it is imperative that Australia’s
hold should be retained. Sheer self-pre-
servation demands it.
♦
The Judiciary and the Executive.
A knighthood has been bestowed on the
Chief Justice of N. S. Wales. This fact was
made the subject of congratulations by the
Bar and solicitors of the State at the open-
ing of the,first term of the year. In acknow-
ledging this tribute the Chief made some
remarks which ought to command our
earnest attention. He expressed the hope
that it would never be forgotten that the
Judiciary did not belong to any Govern-
ment or department; and he quoted
Montesquieu: “There is no liberty if the
judicial power be not separated from the
legislative and executive powers.”
The independence of the British Judiciary
is the fruit bom of experience in past
centuries. During the Stuart period Judges
were the tools of the reigning sovereign.
An attempt to thwart his will, a refusal to
be other than his abject instrument, sub-
jected the Judge to instant dismissal and
with it the. loss of the emoluments that
meant his livelihood. As one historian re-
marked of these later Stuart days, “the
general behavior of the Bench covered it
with infamy.” It was by a , bitter lesson
the English people learned that there could
be safety of neither body nor property,
liberty neither of speech nor of conscience,
so long as the Judiciary and the Executive
were linked.
With the revolution. that ended the
Stuart dynasty the road to cleave the two
apart was opened. It was not, however,
till: the Act of Settlement formulated its
most important provision, so far as the
liberties of the people were concerned, that
the cleavage became complete. By that
enactment the Judges no longer held office
durante placito, at the pleasure of the
Crown, but for life quamdiu se bene ges-
serint—in other words, so long as they be-
have themselves. Other than by con-
viction for an offence against the laws of the
realm, to which, like other citizens, they
are subject, Judges can qow be removed
only by address to the Crown from both
Houses of Parliament —a process practi-
cally equivalent to an Act of Parliament.
Their emoluments are no longer such as
from time to time the King may please,
but are fixed and certain. It is a system
in which we feel a laudable pride, and
should arouse in us a jealousy of the least
impingement on its integrity.
At first sight the position of our Judges
thus established appears to be impreg-
nable, but that it is not wholly so was
foreseen by Henry Hallam just a century
ago—to the very year. He pointed out
that the Judges were still “accessible to the
hope of further promotion, to the zeal of
political attachments, to the flattery of
princes and ministers.” We have not to
go further afield than our own Common-
wealth to note, and especially so of recent
years, a growing and subtle evil by which
political parties endeavor to indirectly exer-
cise their influence upon the Judiciary by
the appointments made to the Bench.
There have been instances in the Mother
State of at least grave suspicion, and in
the northern State of others that have
crossed the line of mere suspicion. It is
well, therefore, to remember the advice
of Hallam “not to come hastily to the con-
clusion that because their [the Judges’]
commissions cannot be vacated by the
Crown’s authority they are wholly out of
the range of its influence.”
The present is an opportune time to
recall this advice, for in the Chief Justice
of N. S. Wales we have an exemplar of the
spirit in which the charter of the Judiciary’s
independence was formed. Chief Justice
Street was, when 20 years ago created a
Justice, dissociated from all political influ-
ences. He was called to the Bench directly
from the Bar, whose ranks he had adorned
by his learning and integrity. No fitter
lips than his could be chosen to impress
upon us, what needs to be impressed under
our uncertain spirit of government, that a
complete and continuous severance between
the governing and the judicial powers is
essential to our civic safety and liberties.
+
The Time-Payment Remedy for All Ills.
The frequency of anti-T.P. comment
lately moved the manager of the Vic-
torian Savings Bank to affirm that the
State’s long-distance time-payment house-
mortgage scheme, greatly expanded by the
benevolent Hogan Ministry, is perfectly
sound instead of being the risky thing
some people take it for.
The great feature of the scheme is that
the bank proposes to provide wooden homes
costing up to £lOOO and more durable ones
costing up to £l3OO. Out of 758 contracts
entered into last year 668 were for wooden
perishables. On a £lOOO concern the buyer
has to pay £5O of his own money in an
ordinary way, but if he has children to
support, and is consequently liable to be
less solvent, he is to pay less. In fact, if
the applicant has enough children the bank
lends with practically no margin of secu
rity at all. The repayments covering princi-
pal and interest spread over many years
—the best part of a working lifetime, m
fact. The very shaky-looking transaction .s
defended on the ground that the amount at
stake is thus in a constant process of reduc-
tion. But it may happen that out of _ each
£ in the first contribution 19s. 6d. is inter-
est and only 6d. reduction of principal.
Therefore it will be a long time before the
buyer of the perishable shack, who got ni
for almost nothing because of his large
and impecunious family, will have much of
his own at stake. And even after some yeais
a very ordinary slump might make it a hun-
dred or some hundreds of pounds better
for him to throw the depreciated perish-
able back at the bank and leave
A rather unconvincing plea advanced m
proof of the solvency of the new system is
that it will provide for “people who would
not have a chance of securing their own
homes if it were not for this system.” In
other words, trust funds will be lent on an
almost invisible margin of security to those
who have the least security of their own
to offer. And, according to the official de-
fence and explanation, “it will mean a
reduction of rentals by those who wish to
compete with the system, so that houses
which were formerly rented at 325. 6d. or
355. a week will have to be brought down
to 255. to secure tenants.” If the glut of
premises and the fall in values are so
THE WEAK POINT.
young men and women could not write plain, direct English in grammatical form.
The Inquirer: “Yes, a remarkably clever child! But why do you keep him in a
wheel-chair?”
This Instructor: “Well, as a matter of fact, he’s been so busy he hasn’t learnt to
walk yet.”
bad as that, it may be a melancholy look-
out for the Savings Bank securities.
The manager’s tale concluded on a high
note of optimism:—
“The value of a house doesn’t fluctuate as
does the value of a motor-car or other item
of luxury.” Asked to comment on the pro-
blem that would confront the purchaser in
the event of a big decrease in wages and a
consequent fall in property values m the
next few years, the manager said he could
not imagine any economic depression m a
country such as Australia becoming per-
manent.
Yet a fall in property values from 355. to
25s per week appears to be confidently
expected. And the fall of £387,919 in one
half-year’s revenue from the Victorian
railways isn’t merely expected; it is a
calamity which has arrived, along with
other bodeful circumstances.
The efforts of Governments, both State
and Federal, to start some kind of a new
boom beside the sick bed of the old one
are sorrowful as well as futile. It would e
more respectable to have the previous
cadaver off the premises first.
♦
Hospital Finance.
In the earlier years of its life the Broken
Hill hospital was in chronic trouble. I hen
a plan was worked out by the Barrier
Miner, a local paper, and Jostak Thomas,
now a Senator and then M.L.A. for South
Broken Hill, pushed it through Parliament
—a necessity because the scheme contra-
vened the Truck Act. With small modi-
fications and some vicissitudes in its middle
age, it has continued ever since with the
result that, though not affluent, the Broken
Hill hospital is equipped probably as well
as any in the world of its size, and its servic
is a glad surprise for most visitors. _
The main source of revenue is tne
Workers’ Contribution Fund. All mine em-
ployees and such employees of city firms as
have elected to come under the scheme
have sd. a week deducted from thenr pay.
The employers nowadays add 7d. to eacn
5d., making the contribution Is. hor the
year ended December 31, 1927, a bad one
because the Prop., Block 14 and Junction
mines were closed for the last quarter, em-
ployees contributed £6884 and the employers
subsidy amounted to £9475, giving a tota
of £i6 359. The Government subsidy
brought the total to £32,718. Some non-
mining employers will not or are not strong
enough to subsidise the contributions ol
their employees, and to bring such workers
within the ambit a self-subsidising scheme
has been introduced by which each salaiy-
or wage-earner may obtain full benefits on
payment of 6d. a week. To facilitate tle
collection, unions, such as the Meat
Employees, the Baking Trade Employees,
the Municipal Employes and so on collect
the sixpence with their dues. This ~
subsidising scheme, added to the other,
brought the total to £35,182. So nearly suffi-
cient was this for all purposes that the hat
was rarely passed round, and entertainments
and donations combined added only £l6OO
(plus subsidy) to the funds.
The benefits given to subscribers under the
two schemes are medical and surgical atten-
tion and medicine for the whole family as
in- or out-patients. There are four resident
medical officers and a supernumerary, the
equivalent of the just-graduated junior m
most hospitals, and all of them are full-
time officers. With 122 in-patients and 66
out-patients, each patient gets as much
attention as he could possibly buy outside;
and there is one nurse to every 2 2 patients.
♦
The Tourist Trade.
It is good to read that the Development
and Migration Commission is securing the
co-operation of State tourist bureaus, rail-
ways and shipping companies to attract
oversea visitors. The Commission believes
tourists will present this country with
£21,000,000 the very first year the scheme is
in action.
So far, so good. But now we have to
learn that the tourist business is like any
other, inasmuch as it depends on good
salesmanship on the part of the employees
(in this case, ourselves) to keep it going.
It is silly to snare a boatload of wealthy
Americans and then show distaste for them
as soon as they arrive. ' True, England is
only thinly polite to Americans; but then
England is a country that the average
American feels he must see or die; and Aus-
tralia is a country about which he doesn’t
care a cuss till we force it upon his notice.
And the American is the greatest tourist in
the world.
Moreover, the average tourist has to work
to a time-table. If he has only six months
in which to see the world or the Southern
Hemisphere, he can’t afford more than three
or four days in each important centre.
Many an Australian has “done” Rome in
a day. There is no justice in making rude
remarks because the tourist in Australia
can afford only three or four days in Sydney
or Melbourne.
Colored Brother Bhagat Ram.
When the Indian Statutory Commission
under Sir John Simon arrived in Bombay
the other day it was received with riots
and general strikes, and the Indian Legis-
lature and most of the public bodies refused
it recognition. The reason given was that
the British Government had declined to
appoint any Indian representatives to the
Commission; it was urged that, for this
reason, it was utterly unrepresentative of
Indian feeling and would be unable to carry
out its task of ameliorating the conditions
under which the great mass of India s popu-
lation labors. For this reason, also, most
of those prominent in political and public
life, including the half-baked intelligentsia
who are the real curse of modernised India,
have declined to give evidence before the
Commission, or assist it in any way.
Yet there is little doubt that if the depressed
and lower castes and classes who form the
vast majority of India’s population could
be approached—and it is not impossible—
the Commission would meet with an assured
welcome, and have the extent of its useful-
ness considerably enlarged. 1 hat, at any
rate, is the considered opinion of Bhagat
Ram, a publicist of Ferozepore, m the
Punjab, who, in a quaint communication
addressed to The Bulletin, points out that
all Hind does not lie in the hands of a
few thousand Babus and “Notables.” In
an appeal to the great mass of the Indian
people to ignore the clamor of the poli-
ticians and agitators he says:—
With a view to fulfilling the best service
the British citizen could do for India—
especially for the real India of voiceless
lions —aii exclusively Parliamentary Com-
mission—that is, one from outside and un-
prejudiced—has been appointed. Now we
have a better chance of justice at the hands
of the more broad-minded foreigners than
our countrymen. If the Commission were
to include any Indian, it would be out-
weighted with the caste prejudice, and would
not be a Royal but a caste-ridden Com-
mission. It is therefore hoped that the
patriotic public will ponder well over all this,
and seize this golden opportunity to lay
before the Commission the real situation of
India —the real India which is found in poor
huts, and whose needs are very different
from those of the Indian politicians.
Bhagat Ram’s warning to his own folk that
they are likely to get a fairer deal from
overseas than from their own time-serving
politicians will be appreciated by every un-
prejudiced person who has seen something
of the work of the British in India.
4
Overloaded Industry.
Dear Bulletin,— Australia’s trouble is that
there is too great a multitude of non-pro-
ducers hanging on to industry. The present
Government has created many fresh offices
with extravagant ways— e.g., the Develop-
ment and Migration Commission, with
attendants too numerous to tabulate; an
Arbitration Court with its retinue of Judges,
barristers and lesser legal lights with their
secretaries, typists, attendants and travelling
expenses; and (though Mr. Bruce is not re-
sponsible for that) in some States there are
also a forest of Boards of Trades, Industrial
Commissioners, Wages Boards, etc. On
the other side are the Trades Hall and the
Labor unions with the officials they have
found it necessary to array against the other
combination. All are barnacles attached to
the worker and producer. Is it any wonder
our mining industry is giving out, that our
timber industry has failed, and that the
Development Commission has recom-
mended the limitation of production of
dried fruits? The whole trouble is that
industry just can’t stand all these costs,
especially as their main result is to slow
down the wages worker.
Mr. Bruce wants to be careful in seeking
out where Australia’s troubles lie. He will
certainly not ascertain it from the two com-
binations. The remedy which Australia
will shortly demand owing to her progress
being so impeded is to be set free to work
out her destiny.—Yours, etc.; T. Murdoch.
4
The Mistakes of Moscow.
Surprise has been expressed because the
Russian Revolution hasn’t succeeded, or
even progressed much, in China. It would
have been very surprising if it had done so.
The Chinese leaders aren’t concerned
about the woes of the proletariat to the
extent of twopence. Theirs is what the
Russians themselves would call a “bour-
geois” revolution. What they are after,
when they aren’t merely after loot, is what
the Italian leaders of the risorgimento were
after; namely, unification of the country
and its emancipation from foreign influ-
ence, Russian or other. By mistaking the
upheaval as the beginnings of a com-
munist revolution, Moscow should go down
as the prize miscalculator in history.
But perhaps it miscalculated on purpose.
Possibly all it really wanted was to make
trouble.
4 .
From Randolph Bedford: —
A Bulletin contributor, writing on “Uncle’s War”
(S /2/’28), says that “before and after April, 1917,
the Allies fought Uncle’s (the U.S.A.’s) battle, and
they are now paying heavily for being allowed to
fight it.” Now that’s genius! So Britain and the
Allies went into the war to save America! Marvel-
lous are these English in sidestepping facts. From
the crazy statement quoted, a man can visualise the
methods of this anti-American propaganda which is
so far pro-German that it will not permit the Nurse
Cavell picture to be shown because it might annoy
Germany. But it makes a business of attempting
to annoy the nation that saved Europe.


The Federal Mutual
QQD’U’QD&k
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation / ct 1026.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors: R. Rawnsley Moss, Chairman; W. B. Ainsworth, Esq.; T. A. Magney, Esq.;
S. Sampson, Esq.; J. T. Turner, Esq.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: Weymouth Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
ON MACHINERY EXPOSED TO
EE
WEATHER
CONDITIONS
the New
“MANGROVITE”
WATERPROOF BELTING
is proving a big improvement. Made absolutely waterproof and without
stitches this new type does away with any danger from lifting laps or plies
and gives longer, better service. Let us give you full particulars.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Victorian Trades Hall .Council has
decided to have nothing to do with Prime
Minister Bruce’s industrial peace conference.
The mass of unionists may want peace, but
the officials get their money and their adver-
tisement out of strife.
When this country starts compiling its
list of prohibited imports it might set down
furs as something it is going to do without.
They aren’t absolutely necessary in this
climate, and many of them are our own
rabbit, bought cheaply by foreigners, and
sold back at a high price disguised as almost
any old animal bar megatherium. Australia
m capable of disguising its own rabbit.
Bunny isn’t a difficult or complicated brute.
Though the all-round sinking fund which
is to gradually wipe out Federal and State
debts isn’t yet working full time, the Bruce
Government put over a million into it dur-
ing the half-year as evidence of good faith.
The money has its uses as a means of deal-
ing with the local debt, but being local
paper it has no effect on the big liability
abroad. Indeed Australia, State and Federal,
went 16 or 17 millions further into the soup
in the second half of 1927. And until the
surplus and the sinking fund can be turned
into something tangible the begging process
will go on.
Hinkler was born and brought up about
a hundred miles below the Tropic of
Capricorn, where white men pine away. He
went to work in a foundry; in fact, he is a
product of one of those secondary industries
which owe their miserable existence to the
iniquitous tariff. For a fellow with such
antecedents to do what he has done this
month is, in a manner of speaking, an
outrage. He should have had more respect
for the arguments of the grand old Free-
trade-cum-Black Australian Party.
The staff and workmen of Cockatoo Dock-
yard have made a first-class job of the sea-
plane carrier, H.M.A.S. Albatross (Ara-
luen ivould be better), that was launched
last week. They now aspire to build two de-
stroyers, and it is a worthy ambition.; more-
over the destroyers are needed. If the unions
will undertake not to down tools on any pre-
text whatever (some of them are rather too
friendly with the work-stopping crowd that
communicates with Moscow and Canton)
the matter should certainly be arranged.
The Mikado’s advisers took no chances
with the 10 million new voters recently
added to the rolls. Opposition election
meetings were put down by the police and
the press was not allowed to allude to the
putting down. Also the vicinity of the
polling-booths was made unhealthy for anti-
Government electors, large numbers of whom
were freighted off to gaol for alleged breaches
of the election laws. The result is said to
be an overwhelming victory for the Ministry.
Japan seems to get a lot of innocent enjoy-
ment out of imitating the outward shows of
Western institutions.
The Speck’s Labor Government is finding
difficulty in persuading McDonald (of the
A.W.U.), to retire from the Leg. Council
contest in Gordon in order to give bon.
Minister Lawson a free run. It declares that
the cheerful and able assistance rendered by
Lawson deserves something less unpleasant
than the removal of his political scalp; but
the McDonald faction retorts that Labor
must stick to its rules and decline to grant
election immunity to a non-Laborite, how-
ever helpful. Tas. Nationalists are hoping
for a definite Labor split.
Premier McCormack, of Queensland, de-
clared the other day that Governments here
are borrowing too much, and that in con-
sequence they have pushed up the rate of
interest to a disastrous figure. He added
that foreign loans are a grievous cause of
unemployment, as a country which buys
mountains of foreign goods and pays for
them with lOU money loses the work of
making these goods. Having enunciated
these simple truths he added that the year’s
higli-interest borrowings, including Brisbane
municipal loans guaranteed by the State,
would be only about £7,500,000, and he
would sternly resist any increase. He
didn’t even say that he would see Bruce
about prohibiting a lot of imports.
Mclntosh, Carter and McMillan, the three
S. Aus. Assemblymen who have resigned from
the Country Party Association, declaring
that it had not honored its agreement with
the Liberal Federation, propose to call them-
selves the Ministerial Country party. That
was the title taken by the Westralian Cocky
Assemblymen who broke away from their
organisation five years ago, but it didn’t
prevent the “party” getting a bad doing at
the polls. Some of the surviving fragments
now want to make it up with tlieir old
associates. These Country groups are so
small that they can’t afford to quarrel among
themselves, but quarrel they do everywhere,
and bitterly.
When the Sydney City Council was tod-
dling towards its second fall it became an
extensive owner of slummy properties, many
of which served a purpose by housing people
who voted the municipal Labor ticket, and
were ficcommodated, as far as possible, with
municipal jobs. A result was that, while
the old business part of the city was being
steadily rebuilt and beautified, the old, mean
residential quarters grew meaner and more
infested with flying bottles, Flossies and
other disturbances. The Commissioners who
now run the show propose to begin a work
of demolition arid reconstruction, and if the
work is done well it may even lead to
economy of space. Narrow lanes with squat
bandboxes on each side don’t really accommo-
date so many people as their shabbiness
might suggest.
Time is no object to Melbourne Trades
HaH chieftains when they call at the State
public offices to see Hogan or one of his
Ministers. It is nothing for them to take
two or three hours for an interview, and
the bosses of the railwaymen’s union mono-
polised a whole day of Minister Tunne-
cliffe’s busy week in going over the well-
beaten track of retrenchment. This sort of
thing i s embarrassing to a Government
which has to keep remembering that it is
living. on sufferance. There are only 28
Laborites out of 65 in one House and six
out of 34 in the other.
The restoration of by-elections in N. S.
Wales deserves a better reception than it is
getting, thanks to the party machines, in
Wollondilly. The pre-selection oracle has
teen worked by two lots of wirepullers, wbo
could all be comfortably seated in a 12 x 10
room, with the result that the electorate will
have to choose between two elderly gents
who have been defeated on several occasions
—Morton (“Nationalist”) and Chalker
(“Labor”). It was expected that “Nation-
alism” would have learned something from
the general election, where pre-selection came
a fearful cropper in Bondi and Willoughby
and made a very poor showing in other
constituencies which should have been cap-
tured. Perhaps the truth is that “Nation-
alism,” in these matters at least, is an ass
of a party which scores only because the
other side is a sillier ass.
As soon as Parliament resumed at Can-
berra Labor-leader Charlton dashed in with
the usual time-wasting censure motion. It
was a trident, the three prongs being that
the Government didn’t “adequately” pro-
tect our industries; that it didn’t limit
migration to the country’s swallowing cap-
acity; and that it didn’t fix up the unem-
ployed. It would be a good idea in such
cases if the complainant, in addition to say-
ing that the Government failed to do the
right thing, had to lay on the table a definite,
detailed and clearly-typed statement of what
the right thing really is. This should be
submitted to the Government Statistician
and the Auditor-General, who might call in
legal or other advice when necessary. If
they reported that the scheme was wholly
worthless, the originator should be disquali-
fied in the matter of censure motions for a
session.
Small, unprosperous, polyglot Darwin has
very little occupation except going on strike.
The authorities lately offered 11s. per yard
for sand for some purpose or other, but
‘the union" interposed. It insisted that
the carters shouldn’t load their own lorries,
but employ men at ss. per hour. There
being no guarantee of any definite quantity
of sand per hour, the work stopped before
it commenced. The next trouble arose
through an order issued by some irre-
sponsible 3 that aboriginal yardmen should
be discharged from all hotels. The pubs
were declared “black,” and any man who
drank at a bar was notified that he would
be expelled from “the union.” The union-
ists called a meeting, and one of them was
in the act of demanding a secret ballot when
an organised band of polyglots threw him
out, shouting the while in Russian, Greek,
Italian and sundries. Neither the white
nor the black Australian seems to count
for much at Darwin, for even the police
were thrown out.
The Bruce-Page professes to have mil-
lions to spend on road-making and house-
building performances. If it would spend
some on finishing the cross-Australia rail-
way, not only might it make some money, but
it would make the tawdry little pande-
monium at Darwin accessible and control-
lable. It isn’t much credit to a warrior
bearing the honored name of Bruce that he
has ruled the Territory directly for five
years only to have his authority scorned by
Dagoes in, half a dozen languages and his
inadequate peace force used as a football.
An unfortunate inability to keep to the
point threatens to prolong the Borehole
coalpit disturbance indefinitely. At first
it looked simple enough. Hoard, of the
Miners’ Federation, said he accepted -Jd. per
ton on the output of the mine to keep it
free from stoppages, and collected this for
18 months. The other party to the trans-
action said he assuredly paid the money. He
was selling agent on commission for the coal,
and in a place of incessant fool disturb-
ances he reckoned the best way to have coal
to sell was to pay some responsible and ap-
proachable individual not to be too malignant.
Over this plain unvarnished situation meet-
ings of growing intensity have been held.
At one of them over 2000 miners were pre-
sent, and Hoare, Willis and Badly (two of
Lang’s Ministers) shouted for 64 hours, and
the rain pounded on the tin roof like Old
Boots and all his relations. There were
demands for a Government inquiry, dark
hints by. Hoare concerning darker revela-
tions in store, and fierce allusions to Badly’s
house and Willis’s alleged accumulation of'
property, likewise his salary of £lOOO a
year from the Labor Daily. And when the
meeting broke up in a fury of disorder, and
the ghosts of vituperation dispersed, nothing
had been done.
Melbourne has been blessed with what is
described as a “British Empire exhibition,”
no Australian goods being admitted. The
Industries Protection League made some
pointed inquiries as to whether the exhibits
would come in free of duty and whether
they would be sold here after the show was
over. The replies consisted mostly of
silence. The State Education Department
asked its head teachers if each of them would
organise some side-show from among his
pupils. The council of the Teachers’ Union
stated that they wouldn’t. At this Prime
Minister Bruce put on his best air of pained
surprise and “strongly deprecated the un-
gracious attack.” Pie said that the Indus-
tries Protection League “didn’t reflect the
opinion of the public.” Still it and the
teachers reflect the dead-sure fact that
Australia doesn’t want to encourage importa-
tions, because it gets far more than it can
pay for already.
Some years ago the Lawson Ministry
began to carry the Vic. railways into
N.S.W.; also it purchased the privately-
owned Deniliquin-Moama line, 44 J miles
long. One of the new railways, 120 miles
by measurement, is now working, and closer
settlement is in progress. The agreement
was that 125,000 acres should be closer-
settled, but by putting pressure on local
owners of large properties considerably more
than that has been accomplished without any
cost to the Ma State* Treasury; In fact, it
is reckoned that 266 farmers, mostly of the
“mixed” variety, have been deposited on
areas which average 1430 acres apiece. 1 It
isn’t much in the way of “close” settlement;
but it is much better to see that sort than
the attempt of the settlers of soldiers to
pack men on impossibly-small areas.
Owing to the award which the Court
dashed off in its bright and casual way,
N.S.W. coastal freight rates are about to
rise again. Increased -wages, increased
privileges, the 44-hour week, which necessi-
tates heavy overtime payments, and loss by
promiscuous job-control stoppages are con-
tributing causes. The cost of washing has
risen 10 per cent, after being stationary for
six years. The 44-liour week, workmen's
compensation, dear fuel and the other usual
causes are mentioned by the laundrymen
in explanation. The position is disappoint-
ing, and even the sanguine Arbitration
Judge Detliridge has ceased to look quite
his old self. On two or three recent occa-
sions, when asked to shovel out some new
benefits there and then, he has balked
instead of taking the fence in his stride
after the gallant fashion of Piddington when
that well-known horse was at his best.
An unhopeful gathering of miners and
owners has been convened by the N.S.W.
Minister for Labor to inquire what is wrong
with the Newcastle coal-export industry, and
to look into “royalties, freights, crane
charges, wharfage and harbor dues, bounties,
taxation, tariff on imported machinery” and
a whole lot of things. Purposeless and pet-
tish stoppages of work, and consequently of
supplies, was not on the list, but as there
were 33 of them in one recent week they
iqight lmve been mentioned. However, lioare,
the man who got the mysterious 4d. per ton
commission for preventing industrial troubles,
said that “if it was true” that the stoppages,
which have often caused ships to go away
empty and look for cargoes elsewhere, were
bad for trade,, then the union offered its
verbal guarantee that stoppages would stop.
As the union refuses to impose any penalty
for stoppages, however, it is assumed that
they will go on and possibly increase.
Melbourne Trades Hall Council ha 3 re-
fused to send delegates to Bruce’s industrial
peace conference and sternly bidden him to
“enact a plan for absorbing the unemployed,”
“a vigorous public works policy” being, of
course, understood. On the same day Charl-
ton scolded the Government for reducing the
fraudulent land-tax that was to have “burst
up the big estates,” saying that the amount
remitted should have been “spent on produc-
tive works” so that “unemployment” might
be “reduced.” Is it quite impossible for these
Labor leaders to rise above their soup-
kitchen conception of Government? There
wouldn’t be nearly so many unemployed if
there hadn’t been so many efforts to “absorb”
them.
The problem of railway versus motor
carriage of goods is simple, but the solution
isn’t. In N.S.W., for instance, the average
charge on the railways last year was 12s. 6d.
per ton for 100 miles, and it was a losing
business at that. But the particular charges
varied from 3s. 6d. and ss. sd. per ton
(manure, grain, flour) to 455. 3d. and 51s.
4d. If the motor-man makes an all-round
offer of 255. he bids for all the high-priced
traffic and leaves the hopelessly non-paying
kind to the railways. If the latter put up
the low-priced rates to an adequate figure
the farmer will burst, and if the figures are
left where they are the railways will burst.
Should the railway authorities try to put the
load on to the passenger he is liable to go
by motor likewise. As motors multiply they
will lose popularity by killing people, but
taxpayers can’t be spared.
The attack made upon compulsory indus-
trial arbitration by Prof. A. H. Tocker, of
Canterbury College (M.L.), has provoked a
retort from Dr. Belshaw, of Auckland Uni.
Dr. Belshaw uses some of Tocker’s own bulle-
tins to show that the M.L. Arbitration
Courts’ awards haven’t been the principal
factor in raising wages and prices, the main
cause being expansion of overhead charges
due to post-war over-capitalisation; a bad
system of company taxation; undue inflation
of property values and rents; the over-
crowding of the retail distributing business,
and the high price of money. He takes the
view that if arbitration were abolished it
would speedily have to be re-introduced. But
of course he doesn’t defend the basic-wage-
fixing principle that has been grafted on the
system, and he admits that even in Maori-
land, where awards have to be obeyed by
both parties, there is plenty of room for
improvement in the law.
It is a curious fact that self-governing
Australia has never made a new State.
Theodore asserts that his party is in favor
of smaller States, but the fat and sloth
which arise from much borrowing make it
unfit for much save the scramble for office.
Sydney shopkeepers have made another
appeal to the Government to outlaw the
parasitic coupon, and belated hopes are enter-
tained. The coupon is a document which
meddlesome parties sell in quantities to the
shopkeeper. He is supposed to give it only
to his cash customer, but under pressure of
competition he often gives it to the credit
one as well. If the customer saves enough
coupons, and doesn’t lose or mislay them,
and the baby or the mouse doesn’t get them,
he can take his hoard to a depot and get
a milk-jug in exchange. The system pro-
duces nothing, and spreads no new enlighten-
ment, but it keeps a number of people off
the labor market and looks something closely
related to blackmail.
PARTS OF SPEECH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“According to the leader of the Opposition, the
Government, although only four months in office, had
already shown itself the most inept, bungling and
helpless that ever disgraced the Treasury benches. He
might have forgotten some of Mr. Lang’s genial ad-
jectives.”—N.SAV. Premier Bavin.
To each his dialectic forte,
Ilis specialty to each ;
George Reid excelled in apt retort,
Alt' Deakin shone at silver speech ;
For flowery flights of pappycock
Still Dan O’Connor’s memory lives.
But who could ever show such stock
As Lang of “genial adjectives”?
Pronouns were more in Parlces’s line,
With one that always led the list;
Holman could actor’s art combine
With craft of elocutionist;
A crackling verb to Hughes’s bleat
Full oft a piquant flavor gives;
But, past or present, who could beat
Our Lang at “genial adjectives”?
Oh, some there be rough stuff that pull,
While others never doff the gloves;
Some roar like Bashan’s fabled bull,
Some coo as soft as courting doves.
Some winnow out the grain from chaff
Of speech with metaphoric sieves;
But Lang’s indictments carry half
Their punch in “genial adjectives.”
In Parliament or caucus-room,
Cleaving the storm of snarls and threats,
Like boomerangs they hum and boom,
These so endearing epithets.
Not mine to say if hot harangue
Or logic cold pays better divs.,
Give me a Labor lyre to twang
One line of epitaph for Lang:
His lurk was “genial adjectives.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SOCIETY
"and it's
Printed With
WIMBLE'S INKS"
ONE SHOULD LAST OUT THAT JOB.
“Last night the light failed just as I started to undress.”
“If it happens to-night, just ring up and I’ll run round and hold a match.”
“Erua”: During wartime I went to a big
society gathering organised by one of our
best-known war-workers, whose name and
portrait used to adorn at least two pictorials
a week. There was a competition connected
with war-names, and when I was adjudged
the winner I went forward to receive the
prize. To the accompaniment of patriotic
airs I was handed a china sweets dish by
a gentleman who had just made a stirring
patriotic speech. Back in my niche I ex-
hibited the prize to interested friends, and
was startled by a muffled gasp from one
examiner, who pointed to the mark on the
back of the dish. It was an unobtrusive
intimation that the prize had been made in
Saxony!
* * * *
“Guida”: Actually human hair preceded
silk as a lethal halter for condemned persons
Yv'liose degree was a bit above the common
(B. 22/2/’2B). In Domesday Book may be
found an account of the trial of one Sigbert,
a thane of Ely. on a charge of cattle steal-
ing. A jury of his peers found him guilty,
but the Court decided, as a sop to his rank,
that he should dance at the end of a rope
of human hair instead of the common hempen
article. In the reign of James 1., Alexander,
fifth Baron Straclian, having been condemned
to death on a charge of murder, claimed the
Ely delinquent’s privilege at his execution,
but in his case a silken rope was substituted,
possibly for the reason that human hair had
become more difficult to obtain in sufficient
quantity for swinging a malefactor, since
then the silken rope has become an estab-
lished prerogative of the nobleman on the
gallows, not by express enactment but by the
just-as-binding precedent of centuries.
*****
“Caveman”: Touching those wheat-laden
sailing-ships Beatrice and Herfcogin Cecilie
(B. 8/2/’2B), it is rather
curious that South Aus-
tralia should be seeing so
much of the few wind-
jammers that are left. On
one day recently I secured
photographs of five large
vessels. The barquentine
Forest Friend was sold by
a court order the other
day and realised £5O, with
a liability on her of £5OO
harbor dues. The others
are barques, with timber;
the Monongahela from
Puget Sound, and the
Ponape and Killoran from
the Baltic. Out at the
anchorage is the four-
masted barque Garthpool,
the last British windjam-
mer afloat. Her last voy-
age did not pay much
more than expenses, and
she has come from Dub-
lin in ballast on the
chance of securing a
charter. Old salts will
reipember her by the
name, Juteopolis. Her
mate told me that it is
still possible to fill the
fo’c's’le tvith a sort of a
crew, but really experienced sailors are very
hard to get.
* * * *
“Gad” : Here is another little-known privi-
lege of Britain’s old nobility (B. 22/2/‘2B) ;
a member of it may claim to be sworn in
court in a different way from the common
herd. I recall an instance some years ago
when an Irish peer was charged with being-
drunk and disorderly in Edgeware-road (Lou-
don ). He claimed the privilege of giving testi-
mony “on his honor as a Peer of the Realm/
and the magistrate allowed it. The nobleman s
evidence was to the effect that he had par-
taken of only one bottle of stout, but this
didn’t save him from being convicted and
fined.
* * * *
“Stellsby”: “S.M.” finds it monotonous to
read over and over again in police-court cases
“Defendant pleaded that he had'been drink-
ing” (B. 10/2/’2B). There is at least one ser-
vice, how-ever, the R.N., where no more shrewd
or effective plea can be entered, for Admiralty
orders hold that if a “crimed” man pleads
drunkenness he is to be regarded as irrespon-
sible. Hence the erring matelot who swears
he was blotto invariably gets off lightly com-
pared wfith his mate who hasn’t the savvy
to put up the tale. In the Army I under-
stand the boot is on the other foot.
* * * *
“G.8.L.”: There are 10,020 post offices in
the Commonwealth. One may deplore that
so many of the names have been duplicated,
triplicated and fourfolded. For instance,
there is an Alberton in Vic.. Q’land, S.A.
and Tas,; an Armadale in Vic. and W.A.,
with an Armidale in N.S.W.; and an Auburn
in N.S.W., Vic. and S.A. Four States have
an Avoca and three a Beaconsfield. Among
other names repeated three or more times
are Beaufort, Belmont, Brighton, Capipbell-
town, Carlton, Croydon, Darlington Enfield,
Epping, George Town, Gladstone and Hamil-
ton. Among more arresting place-names are
Come-by-Chance, Goodnight, Green Pigeon,
Home Rule, Nevertire, Number One, Sod-
walls, Tomboy and Countaguinea (N.S.W.) ;
Boosey, Christmastown, Crossover, Magpie
and Weatherboard (Vic.) ; Baking Board,
Idlewilds and Struck Oil (Q.) ; Black Snake,
Bobalong, Broad Arrow, Uduc and Walk-
ONCE UPON A TIME.
BOBBY: “Tell me a story, Uncle.”
UNCLE: “What about?”
BOBBY: “About a little boy who had an uncle that gave him a bat and ball.
away (W.A.) ; Sandfly (Tas.) ; and World's
End (S.A.). * *
* * * *
“Stellsby”: For many years past I have
heard and read the term “The Old Dart
loosely applied to the Motherland generally.
Strictly speaking, however, it is the Cockney
seaman’s name, for his native London, just
as Southampton is Turn Turn and
mouth Pompey to the naval man. I have
heard London affectionately referred to as
the “Old Dart” in ports as far apart as
San Francisco and Singapore, Capetown and
Montreal. That was years before the
widened signification crept in.
* * * *
“Kerys”: “Sanolio” (B. 22/2/’2B) may
never have seen a “smeared and bloody”
bayonet in France, but to quote only one
instance, no less an authority than Sir Philip
Gibbs has a memorable passage about ‘a
great bayonet charge right across the open”
by the Maorilanders at Flers when the
weapons “flashed like knitting-needles” and
produced “a scene of horrible carnage.” As
for the Ghurka’s traditional method of fight-
ing, which he also seems disposed to ridicule,
one of the memories the Maorilanders brought
back was of the little brown men, “like fat
little Maoris,” crawling in the dusk with
their gleaming weapons held in their teeth.
Their work at various points proved that
they could use those knives with devastating
effect.
* * * *
' “Lao-dali”: It looks as if the great ceta-
ceans were being exterminated more feroci-
ously than ever. The N. T. Neilsen Alonso,
one of the mqtlier ships to the Norwegian
whaling fleet, blew into Hobart the other
day with her five small fry, and reported
that hunting had ceased weeks earlier than
usual because the craft was full up with
9500 tons of oil, equal to about 57,000 barrels.
The C. A. Larsen, another of the fleet, has
got 37,000 barrels, and still another, the
Sir James Clark Ross, has cleared out with
76,000 barrels. The largest monster taken
measured 97 feet, and 100 barrels were
squeezed out of him.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Hinkler broke every record
on the route over which he flew except one.
The Dutchman Koppens flew in lO days
from Europe to Java, as against Hinkler’s
14. But Ivoppens’s machine was a big
Fokker with a trans-Atlantic range. An
even greater feat than flying across the
globe in an Avro-Avian Baby was that of
the tackling of the East Indian tropics at
the tail-end of the wet season. Flying
through genuine tropical rain is something
like submarining through an ocean without
any surface and a bottom whose position
can’t even be guessed at.
* * * *
“X.D.”: Robbery from telephone cabinets
is a thriving industry in Melbourne. The
times when the G.P.O. collectors make their
rounds are well enough known, and organised
gangs visit the booths beforehand. The
amount they get out of each box is small,
but robberies average 100 per month, so the
takings are sufficient to keep many an able-
bodied thief out of work. And it costs
Webster’s department £9OOO per annum to
repair the smashed boxes.
* * * *
“N2X”: Before me lies a little pamphlet
issued by the U.S. Bureau of Public Health,
which deals, among other things, with the
different substances either used for the
adulteration of liquor or sold as liquor itself
in Gahd’s own country since it went “dry.”
Included amongst the commoner adulterants
and substitutes are methyl, amyl, propyl
and butyl alcohols, all of them toxic in
varying degrees; pyridine, which is a pro-
duct of old bones and decomposed organic
materials; sulphuric acid, spirits of salts
and phenol, or carbolic acid. Naturally,
the absorption of these deadly substances
has resulted in a crop of diseases previously
unknown to medical science. The hobnailed
livers and cirrhosis with which every Yankee
hospital was more or less familiar in pre-
prohibition days have been forced _to make
way for maladies ten times more frightful.
$ sfc * . ' *
“J.H.T.” : Far be it from me to cavil at
your graceful and restrained tribute to the late
Lord Haig (B. 8/2/’2S), but I would point
out that it was the Scottish public, not the
British nation, which purchased Bemersyde
for him. Nor is it quite correct to say that
the gift “rehabilitated the somewhat dis-
credited prophecy of Thomas the Rhymer.”
The ancient house (and a portion only of the
estate) was purchased from the current
Haigs of Bemersyde, who were a senior
branch of the family. “The Rhymer’s” pro-
phecy, as I learned it on the Scottish border
50 years ago,, ran:
Betide, betide, whate’er betide,
There’ll be a Haig in Bemersyde.
Curiously enough, I am writing this near the
sugar-plantation (now cut up) of Bemer-
syde, Mt. Ingham (N.Q.), started by a Haig
nearly 45 years ago.
* * * *
“Tritice”: After allowing the municipal
by-law against jay-walking to fall into abey-
ance for some years, Adelaide authorities
woke up the other day and decided that a
few prosecutions would have a wholesome
effect. By the irony of fate the first two
offenders whose names and addresses were
taken were a couple of police constables,
down from the country on a law case.
* * * *
“Kayeff”: The nearest I ever came to
seeing the lance in action was near Belli-
court, of “boiling-down works” fame; even
then it was only used for demonstrating pur-
poses. We were propelling long-range stuff
at a fast-vanishing enemy on the other side
of the St. Quentin canal, and everyone was
itching to he on the move again. At day-
break each morning troop upon troop of
Tommy lancers, with pennons flying from
their quaint weapons, used to trot briskly
past our guns as if they were determined' to
get in some pig-sticking in the open country,
but whether it was the masses of barbed-
wire in front or the brass-hats at the rear
that stopped them, they never did more than
a little ornamental skirmishing before trot-
ting back to keep the whippet tanks com-
pany. I did, however, see the sword used
in earnest once. That was when the 17th
and 18th Hussars charged a battery of wliiz-
bangs near Brancourt-le-grand during an
attack by the Yanks. The Fritz gunners all
threw up their hands as the cavalry neared
them, but when the latter were within 30
yards of them they loosed off a salvo, which
tore great gaps in the Hussars’ ranks. A few
minutes later there wasn’t a German left
alive.
* * * *
“Mugwumpian” : The other day the Port
Adelaide police found a suit of clothes, hat,
boots, etc., hidden in a timber stack at the
wharf, and a sharp look-out was kept on the
river for the missing corpse. Two days
later a casual Australian called at the
station and claimed his clothes. Being out
of work and homeless, when a few hours
toil was offered him he had climbed into his
working duds, planted his best suit in the
timber, and then promptly forgotten all
about it.
Hi Hi H* H*
“Schnorrer”: On March 4 the Sydney
Great Synagogue celebrates its jubilee. The
Chosen—some 20 of them—first met in Syd-
ney for devotional purposes in 1817, but it
was not till 10 years later that P. J. Cohen
offered his home for regular Sabbath ser-
vices. In 1830 the Rev. Aaron Levi, the
first Jewish minister in Australia, was sent
out by the British Chief Rabbi; and a syna-
gogue was established in Bridge-street out of
a reconstructed store. The first synagogue
actually built for the purpose was opened in
1844 in York-street. In 1862 the first regu-
lar Jewish minister —Levi had been only a
sort of missionary—arrived in the person of
the Rev. A. B. Davis. The present Great
Synagogue dates from 1878. There have been
only two Chief Ministers during the whole
history of the Synagogue, Rabbi F. L. Cohen
succeeding Davis, who retired at the age of
75 in 1903.
THE PURIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The tongue the Bard and Samuel
Spake at the Mermaid and the Mitre,
Though Fowler guards its glories well,
Is marred by many a careless blighter.
I deprecate the custom rife —
Alas! It is a social feature—
When A has introduced “the wife”
For B to murmur “Pleestameeclicr.
The man who says lie’s “feeling crook,’
Though tongue be furred and pulse be
racing
Should certainly be brought to book.
Pure speech with slang’s alloy debasing.
Say not thy friend is “up the pole’ ;
Sucli lamentable solecisms
Endanger thy linguistic soul,
And crave a course of prunes and prisms.
Such terms as “bloke,” employed by I)en.,
Should never be allied with “dinkum
At least, when used of gentlemen
With motors or a private income.
To call a person “soused” or “screwed”
When alcoholically sated,
Is, I submit, extremely crude;
Say “sozzled,” or “inebriated.”
“Goodohski,” from the root “goodoh,”
A word with Slav affiliations,
And “boshter,” as all students know,
Were outlawed by the League of Nations.
Such words as “peach” or “tart” should be
Confined to fruit, or culinary
Creations quite exclusively;
Not labelled to a lissome fairy.
These dangers in the air afloat
Have made me sound my warning Klaxon;
It wounds my pride, it gets my goat,
When dolts degrade our Anglo-Saxon.
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.


“X2X” : That lead may be of some value
m treating or preventing cancer is some-
thing more than mere theory (B. 15/2/’2B).
An English investigator quite recently
examined thousands of persons, men and
women, both workers and those exposed to
the influence of the metal in other callings,
and while he discovered several diseases to
which they were peculiarly liable, he satis-
fied himself that cancer was not among them.
There were only two cases of this diagnosed,
both comparative newcomers to the work,
and even in these cases there was the
strongest reason to believe that the cancer-
ous growths had been arrested in their
progress since the sufferers had been in con-
tact with lead. As a sequence, laboratory
investigations concerning the action of the
metal on the cancer-cell are now being carried
on in several different institutions.
* * * Hi
“Sciabolo”: It may interest “Spadassin”
(B. 17/11/’27) to know that duelling re-
tains. its vogue in Italy, in spite of Mus-
solini’s ban upon it. I happen t 0 be living
in the country at present (which will explain
why the par. has been so long in reaching
you), and I know a Fascista general who
has twice been on the “field of honor” in the
last month. _ In the second encounter he
was pinked in the arm, and the wound is
still proudly exhibited to admiring friends.
In the matter of duelling Italy is still
a century behind the times. Recently a
member of Parliament refused a duello on
the ground that, it was illegal, and has
A LESSON IN GRAMMAR.
THE BOY (doing homework): “Dad, what sort of a word would you call marriage?”
DAD: It isn't a word, my son, it’s a'sentence.”
conseauence shorr » nf i? ast “
aSt a duel‘W,” VT °T f ir n ° r “T
mently explained to me “If £ 11
wmcn ena to grip ins sword by.
“Centurion”; Whether or no the' Blach
?"is r ?
little doubt that his contemporaries regarded
him as such. One of these was Froissart,
than whom no better or more acute war cor-
respondent ever lived. The Prince was bold
peZtA tohojd
serve until the infantry fire had destroyed
he 6 wSs 9 on°e f
ne was one ot the first of leaders to
manoeuvre for position, with the idea of
placing the opposition at an initial dis-
advantage—in epitome the underlying prin-
ciple of modern strategy. As a boy at,
Orecy” he was hisi father’s second-in-com-
“and and Ins handling of Ins troops earned
him admiration as well as the then equiva-
lent of a high decoration Athelstan, The
Bruce, Wallace and Alfred the Great, being
largely legendary figures, should be omitted
from serious consideration. Wallace was
little more than a daring raider —a Scottish
De Wet of his day. Cromwell’s battles are
still quoted in military textbooks. In David
Leslie he defeated one of the most renowned
military leaders in Europe. As to Allenby,
I venture to think that he owed much in
Palestine to one at least of his subordinates.
By and large, I should plump for Marl-
borough as the one outstanding British mili-
tary genius.
* * * *
“Gad”: The popularity of desert sands
and romantic sheiks probably accounts for
the enormous growth of the Lawrence legend.
But some of the panegyrists of this modern
Burton go too far. In a recent addition to
the saga, “Lawrence and the Arabs” (by
Robert Graves), we are seriously informed
that “in six years he (Lawrence) read every
book in the library of the Oxford Union—
about 50,000 in all.” In other words, Law-
rence read no less than 22\ books a day,
Sundays included, over a period of six years.
Most miracles would come easy to a super-
man of that description.
* * * *
“Turnitup”: Those 600 and more short
wave stations received by “liastus” on a
100-metre waveboard (B. 8/2/’2B) ' require
revising. We in M.L. have some pretty
good S.W. sets, but none of us come any-
where near that figure. Having a Russian
living handy we frequently get the latest
Bolshie propaganda served piping hot from
the Siberian “mystery” station RFM. Aussie
and M.L. are frequently mentioned by it.
* * * s;*
R. _ Volt : It was for the first time,
according to the cableman, that a meeting
was held jointly in London and N’York at
which motions put in one city were seconded
iii the other. Well, it was for the first
time, too, that such a meeting was over-
heard by a listener over 10,000 miles away.
A Castlemaine (Vic.) radio enthusiast
picked up the whole chat on a liorne-made
set.
* * =|: *
Will Lawson: Two well-known ships, the
Rotomaliana and Coogee, have finished their
careers; the latter lias already been sunk
outside Melbourne Heads. The former was
launched in 1879, and up to a few years ago
never lost the reputation for speed won on
her voyage out to Port Chalmers under
Captain Underwood. She ran frequently at
17 knots, and for all the years she was on
the W ellington-Ly ttelton ferry run was
reckoned the last word in comfort and
speed. The 700-ton Coogee was purchased
by Huddart, Parker, Ltd., from a cross-
Channel co. in England—she had previously
been the Lancashire Witch. There were
some lively races between her and the Roto-
mahana across Bass Straits; tli e Coogee
could do 15 knots. During a fog in 1902
she ran under the bowsprit of the barque
Fortunato Figari, killing her commander,
Captain Carrington, and the look-out, and
levelling masts, bridge and funnel. Out of
the confusion which followed order was
restored by a steward, the deck officers
bavmg Sniped for the bowsprit or been
injured and the engineers too busy at their
?. wn I j ° b below - Eventually the vessel
limped into Melbourne. The last registered
f^’and
striwe s i,er « £ py T
“Gregor”: An amazing varmtv of articles
is perpetually beW drLlpd ~n /h!
bed of Sydney Harbor by the hi- dred-es of
the Harbor Trust One recent mornin- the
-“ h
* * * *
“rarakiore”: Struck an extraordinary
series of . coincidental birtlulavs reoontlv
while compiling an insurance retuim fw a
roadman and his wife in the bae b ocks of
New England (N.S.W.) The prolific couple
were married on the 12th May 1905 On
the same date the following year the first
fruit of the union saw the light* and
each succeeding two years the quiver has
been replenished by the birth of a Jhild on
every occasion between the 12th and ’ the
19th of May. The eleventh was born on the
13th May i 926 Ven “ was bovn on the
Harry Stottle”: Despite Savings Bank
statistics, the casual Australian is still with
us. A few months back a man I know lost
a leg in a motor-tram collision. The insur-
ance company in which he held an accident
policy offered him the choice of £3OO down
or a couple of quid a week for life. He
accepted the former, and invested it in a
AN ATTRACTIVE
INVESTMENT.
“My trustee wants me to
invest my money in
shares. What would you
do?”
“Oh , I think shares are silly. . I’d put my money into clothes.
They’ll fetch you far more interest, you’ll find.”
joy-ride through Gippsland. The itinerary
was from pub to pub and the vehicle a taxi-
cab ! The prodigal returned the other day
at the wheel of the cab, which was much
the worse for wear. Inside was the driver,
gibbering in the first stages of d.t.’s. There
was less than a tenner left out of the insur-
ance money! i
*'* * *
“Nakhoda”: An exotic feature of the
floods on the Melbourne-Sydney lino was a
Hindu on one of the held-up expresses who
starved for three days and nights rather
than eat food not prepared by his caste
equals. It says much for the strictness of
his religious upbringing that he maintained
his fast until he got to Spencer-street.
Scores of well-meaning people thrust food
under his nose and jovially bade him par-
take ; but the steadfast Oriental sadly shook
his head and chewed the cud of reflection.
* * *
“Ivwinana”: Naturalisation figures for
1!127 show that of the 1087 persons who
obtained certificates throughout the Com-
monwealth 25 per cent, were Italians. Greeks
came second with 165; Germans numbered
95, Roumanians 57, Slavs 39, Danes and
Swedes 76, and Norwegians 33. At the other
end of the list were 18 Americans.
“G.F.” : The threatened cessation
of the ferry service from Sydney
to Parramatta recalls that here
began some of Australia’s earliest
history. In November, 1788, Gover-
nor Phillip, satisfied that the soil at
Sydney Cove was indifferent and
unproductive, marked out the loca-
tion for a new settlement where
wheat might be grown, and named
the place Rose Hill, In July, 1789,
the Rose Hill Packet, the first ves-
sel built in Sydney, began to ply
between Sydney and the colony’s
potential granary. In 1791, Rose
Hill was re-christened Parramatta
(the native name). The first brick
store was erected here in 1791, and
a year later the first grant of land
in the district (30 acres) was made
to James Ruse. In 1831 the Sur-
prise, the first steamboat launched
in Australian waters, began to ply
between Sydney and Parramatta.
I volunteered just after the war
started, being not quite 18. My 29-inch
chest measurement led to my being advised
by the sergeant-major to “go home and grow
a bit of meat on your bones.” I had a
couple more tries, with no better luck. The
fourth time I met a kindly veteran of the
old “Q.M. and hon. lieut.” type, who was
interviewing applicants for a technical unit,
and found that I had gone to school with his
son, who was by this time in France. I
told him why I had been rejected, and we
went on to yarn about my school days with
his son, and the end of it was that in an
absent-minded way ho took my chest-
measurement with my clothes on'. Three
days later I was in camp.
* * * *
“Chevroford : There is a very aggrieved
woman in Melbourne. The car she was in
would not start; so she obligingly took the
wheel while the men of the party gave it a
push downhill. It ran across an intersection
and smote another car. Whereupon the lady
was fined for driving without, a license.
* * * •
“Windsor”: A strange case came before
the Malvern (Vic.) beaks the other day
A father sued his two employer-sons, who had
just sacked him, for two pounds as wage®
The plea in rebuttal, so to speak, was that
dad was a plain nuisance, that his family
had tolerated him too long already that
he abused the privilege of his relationship
that he did nothing except loaf around and
revile his sons, and that if they paid him
the two pounds he would only be on the
scene next week demanding another couple
of quid. It was decided that there was insuf-
ficient evidence on which to order the pay-
ment of the two quid.
* * * *
“Exchange”: Re Judge Curlewis’s con-
tention that the
proceeds of a deal
made with embez-
zled funds belong
to the owners of
the cash, there was
a case in point not
long ago in Mel-
bourne when a
youth who had
appropriated money
belonging to his
firm handed back,
together with the
remnants of the
money, a hundred
shares he had
bought in a little-
known concern at
a cost of £2O. The
firm, considering
the shares value-
less, forgot all
about them until
somebody happened
to mention some
months later that
this partjijculair
scrip was booming,
when they promptly
awoke and put
theirs on the mar-
ket. The total pro-
fit on the deal was
nearly £2OO. As
the original in-
vestor had served a
sentence of a year
for his defalcations,
there was some
force in his conten-
tion that the pro-
fits rightly belonged
to him, but he
lacked the courage
to put his views
before his one-time
employers. Whether
the fact that the
embezzler has suf-
fered punishment
for his offence puts
him in a new cate-
gory should provide another knotty point for
the erudite Judge.
* * * *
“Gregor’’: Flinders may have been the
first Englishman to qse the name “Australia”
(B. 8/2/’2B), but the earliest recorded men-
tion of the word occurs in the log of the
voyage of Schouten and Le Maire to New
Guinea and the neighboring islands. The
pair left Holland about 1615 in the belief
that Northern Australia was under the con-
trol of native rulers similar to those in the
East. Indies. The charter of the Dutch East
India Company forbade them to enter the
Pacific via the Cape of Good Hope, so they
went by South America, and after sundry
adventures in New Guinea were arrested by
agents of the company and their ships con-
fiscated. In all the early records of their
voyage there is a variety of spellings of
“Australia,” but the modern method pre-
dominates.
* * * *
“Jack Point”: Touching these Pitcairn
Islanders (B. l/2/’2B). The transport on
which I returned from the war looked in at
their tiny home for the usual purpose of
swapping flour, sugar and other comforts, of
civilisation for any fresh fruit and vegetables
that might bo available. For many days
previously all sorts of authorities, from the
C.O. down, held forth to anyone that would
listen on the history of the inhabitants,
their communal habits and their absolute
ignorance of filthy lucre. When we arrived,
however, we found they had quite an inti-
mate knowledge of English. French and U.S.
coinage, and were perfectly ready to ex-
change their produce and souvenirs therefor.
They are deeply religious, have no use at all
for booze, and at the time of our visit there
were only two smokers, both being Yanks
admitted to the colony in recent years. A
seven-year-old kiddie was entranced with our
piano, the first he had seen. A direct de-
scendant of the original leader of the Bounty
mutiny, Christian, is still the recognised
head of the community.
* * # *
“1.D.” (Java) : I receive letters from
many countries, and in almost every instance
tile postmarks are clear; date, name of town
and time of posting are legible at first
glance. Not so on the letters from my own
country; they are merely a blur. Rarely
is even a letter or a figure to be made out.
Lately one of the Dutchmen in the post
office here remarked on this. It docs look
careless and slipshod. Can’t the Australian
Postal Department do better?
* * * *
“8.Y.N.”: Who was the last Digger to
leave France on duty with his original war-
time unit? I left France in October, 1919,
with a boatload of aeroplanes I had been
packing (or seeing that German prisoners
packed) for the War Museum in Melbourne.
The only Aussies I left on duty were grave-
diggers, and that was a unit formed after
the Armistice.
BALLADE OF SARTORIAL SOLECISM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Ahab dallies at the inn
I do not let my wrath explode;
I deem it but a trifling sin
Against a pettifogging code.
What though the merry bowl has flowed,
There’s fair excuse in all this heat:
The thing that wounds me as a goad
Is when he sheds his coat to eat.
At breakfast time my trials begin,
I know the ritual to forebode:
The napkin tucked beneatli the chin,
Remarks that garments incommode,
And then, as one who casts a load.
He rises slowly from his seat,
Removes his coat and sees it stowed —
And, in his shirtsleeves, sits to eat.
Mostly the audience is our kin,
But when the lady up the road
Sometimes, for tea, will “just drop in”
I like to show a neat abode
With things correctly in the mode.
But Ahab is so indiscreet:
What though the crockery be Spode
If he discards his coat to eat?
Envoy.
Prince, when our mortal swathe is mowed
And in a better land we meet,
I hope the only wear is woad,
Which cannot well be doffed to eat.
N.S.W.
ANGELICA MULDOGN.
ON THE HOUSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When beer from bottle and from wood
Brims high in vitreous bowls
And tot on tot of spirits good
Is quaffed by worthy souls,
When silent midnight passing peers,
Amazed, at our carouse,
One cup beyond all others cheers —
The one that’s “on the house.”
’Tis truly said that life’s brief span
Of rashly squandered days
Is like the froth that laps the tan-
Kard’s lip. But still there stays
One beacon-fire of kindly glow
No flooding care can douse,
The words “Well, boys, before you go,
This one is on the house.”
N.S.W.
BILLY BEERBGTILE.


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
£22/10/-
£65
£3O
£27/10/
DIAMOND
ENGAGEMENT
RINGS
A representative selection from our
enormous stocks. They are all
characterised by the good quality
of the gems, fine workmanship, and
moderate price. Pure platinum and
specially-assayed gold are used in
every ring.
£lO/10/-
£l5/15/-
£27/10/-
é
2i H.P.
Invincible row-boat motors
are the highest-grade small Marine Engines
ever offered in Australia. The price of £3O
includes everything necessary for the complete
installation with Free Clutch, “Robert-Bosch”
variable ignition Magneto, “Kingston” Float
Feed Carburetter, 3-blade polished Propeller,
Brass Benzine Tank, 6ft. Bronze Shaft, Ex-
haust Pipe, Muffler, etc. Unconditionally
guaranteed for five years. We pay freight
to any part of Australia or .New Zealand.
Write for Catalogue to-day.
Invincible Motors, Limited,
53 North George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some March birthdays:
A. 0. C. Holtz (Melbourne Argus), 54, on Ist;
Q’land Senator Brig.-Gen. Thompson, 65, and N.S.W.
Collector of Customs Barkley, 59, on 2nd; Justice
Powers (High Court), 75, and author-parson Frank
Boreham, 57, on 3rd; Archbishop Mannix, 64, Prof.
• Brailsford Robertson (Adel.), 44, and novelist
Edward Dyson, 63, on 4th; Yic. ex-Premier Lawson,
53, on sth; Major-Gen. J. H. Bruche, 55, on 6th;
Rev. James Colwell (Methodist Church historian),
68, on 7th; artist Tom Roberts, 72, on 9th; artist-
knight John Longstaff, 66, on 10th; H. P. Beaver
(Adelaide’s Town Clerk), 60, and E. S. Simpson
(W.A. Government mineralogist and chemist), 53, on
11th; G. E. Flannery, K.C. (Syd.), 56, on 13th;
knight Frank Clarke (Vic. Leg. Council Pres.), 49,
J. R. Collins (High Commissioner’s office), 69, and
T. A. Ferry (Q’land Under Sec.), 51, on 14th;
Prof. Boyce-Gibson (Melb.), 50, and Bishop Hayden
(Wilcannia), 60, on 15th; Archbishop Lees (Melb.),
58, on 17th; Prof. Holme (Syd.), 57, and E. M.
Smith (S.A.’s ex-Surveyor-Gen.), 81, on 18tli; Police
Inspector-Gen. Jas. Mitchell, 63, and J. Wallace Sand-
ford (Adel.), 49, on 20th; Justice McNaughton (Q.),
69, on 21st; Lloyd Chambers (Speck’s Solicitor-Gen.),
65, on 22nd; George Fairbairp (Vic.’s ex-Agent-Gen.),
73, Federal Minister Major Marr, 48, aiid novelist Roy
Bridges, 43, on 23rd; ex-W.A. Premier Lefroy, 74,
on 24th; Vice-Admiral Ernest Gaunt, 63, and N.S.W.
Minister Colonel Bruxner, 46, bn 25th; Vice-Admiral
William Clarkson, 69, and H. S. Gullett, M.H.R.
for Henty, 50, on 26th; Vic. ex-Premier Allan, 62,
on 27th; Sam J. Jacobs (Adel.), 75, and J. A.
Norris (Vic.’s Auditor-Gen.), 56, on 28th; Prof. T.
G. Tucker (Melb.), 69, Dr. Jethro Brown (Adel.),
60, and Hal P. Colebatch (W.A.’s ex-Agent-Gen.),
56, on 29th.
“B-Gar” ; Charles Henry Howard, Earl of
Suffolk and Berkshire, who lias bought
Toolboora station, near Warwick (B.
8/2/’2B), is not the first titled gentleman
to become a station owner in Queensland.
In the early part of this century a young
English lord bought a property near Charle-
ville, and his imported staff included a
manager, secretary and butler. His reign
was short, as the income from the property
would not permit the number of sprees he
wanted. Before being sold up, he ran short
of the necessary in Sydney, and wrote his
manager for a remittance. The manager
replied that there would be no more money
until next shearing, 11 months ahead. To
which the lord wired, “Shear again at once.”
If Herbert Hoover secures the Republican
nomination for the U.S. Presidency lie will
■probably be the first candidate for the White
House who ever earned his bread in Aus-
tralia. Many in W.A. and elsewhere will
remember the young American mining
engineer who was imported by Bewick,
Moreing and Co., a trifle over 30 years ago,
and subsequently put in a short term as
manager of the Sons of Gwalia, Leonora, a
property still being worked. As a mine
manager Hoover was well spoken of, though
only in his early twenties. He left these
parts for a mining job in China, and was
in Tientsin during the Boxer rebellion.
Hoover has filled many rdles since those
days; his most important one —U.S. Food
Administrator in 1917-18—having enriched
the American language (if not the English)
with a new word. “To liooverise” (Funk
and Wagnall) is “to restrict oneself to a
fixed allowance of food.”
HENRY
HARWELL,
the new Agent-
General for
South Australia.
Tom Wyatt, of Vic. Lands Department,
has got more than even with the Hogans for
recalling him from the job of land emigration
officer in London. Stating that he was in Ins
62nd jmar and had the right to retire on
pension, he forwarded his resignation. He
claimed pension on the basis of average
salary and allowances. Had he been paid on
salary alone the pension would have been
£458. but including allowances the amount
swelled to £B4O. The Law Department and
Auditor-General Norris, while regarding the
claim as unusual, have admitted that it is
legal, and so £l6-odd a week has to be paid.
Flood sufferers along the Bogan won’t
forget in a hurry the relief scran carried to
them last week by Constables Day and allies,
of the Sydney Water Police. George Day,
at least, was pretty well qualified for
the job. About 20 years ago he was in the
championship class of scullers, good enough
to be twice started against Harry Pearce,
once over the Parramatta course and the
other time on the Swan River.
ALDERMAN W. A. JOLLY, who was
re-elected Mayor of Brisbane by a
majority of nearly 27,000 at the recent
City Council elections.
“TJramao”: My recollections of David
McKee Wright go back to the ’nineties,
when an odd poem came in from him to
the paper on which I worked in Maoriland.
He became pastor of Emanuel Congrega-
tional Church, Oamaru, in IS9B, and was
a familiar sight in the White Stone City,
where he was president of the North Otago
Christian Endeavor Society and chairman
of the local Bible Society and London Mis-
sionary Society. The shy young parson, with
his thick crown of dark brown hair, was
very popular among his flock. After he left
the town the position of pastor was never
filled, and the church went to the wall,
being eventually pulled down to make room
for worldly bungalows. During John Bull s
few rounds with Com Paul Wrights sym-
pathies were with the Boer, and he did not
keep his opinions to himself.
Sold his last ounce, A. D. Hart, of Mel-
bourne, a leading figure for many years in
. the tobacco trade. He was a director ot
the British Australasian Tobacco Company,
in which he was a big holder. Many years
ago he owned a few racehorses, put round
that, like most of his weed, his horses
efforts ended in smoke, so he gave up the
sport. He belonged to the Sanhedrim of the
St. Kilda Synagogue.
Maoriland’s new Massey Agricultural Col-
lege will be bossed by Professor G. S. Peren,
who has been perched in the Chair of Agri-
culture at Victoria College, Wellington, since
1924. He found little scope for his ability
in the chair, and threw himself into an agi-
tation for a College of Agriculture. Peren
was born in Canada, educated at Toronto
University and Guelph College, did five years
farming in Ontario and Kootenay, and was
appointed Entomologist in 1914. He served
with the Canadian Artillery in the European
flare up, and held several big jobs in England
before moving to Maoriland.
Timothy Luddy has called it a go in Bris-
bane. On Gympie in the early days he rose
to prominence as a director of the big reefing
companies that followed, helping to guide the
destinies of No. 1 North Smithfield, among
other golden holes. Later, he blossomed into
one of the most daring speculators in mining
scrip in the Queensland of his day, and
finished further ahead of the game than
most of the fraternity. He landed in Aus-
tralia from Cork in 1874, and was 73 at the
finish.
“G.S.D.”: “Five Eight’s” description of
the exploit of E. R. G. R. Evans in H.M.S.
Broke (B. 5/l/’2B) is apathetic. . Evans in
the Broke, following Peck in the Swift,
chased five (not two) German destroyer
raiders. Evans headed straight at the third
enemy destroyer and rammed her at a speed
of 27 knots. While the vessels were inter-
locked a fierce fight occurred between the
crews, every calibre of weapon being brought
into action ; even cutlasses were brandished.
During the height of the four-and-a-half-
minutes’ engagement, a torpedo fired by one
of Evans’s lieutenants crippled the bows of
the fourth racing German destroyer.
Bundaberg is well in the limelight these
days. Bert Hinkler is a native of the ’Berg,
and in Miles it now claims the champion pro.
sprinter of the world. Lesser lights in run-
ners Parker and Bauer also saw the light of
day in the town whence comes the “Bundy”
rum.
W. R. Morris, an ambassador here to say
that British car manufacturers intend to
make a harder fight for the Australian
market, belongs to the big Morris firm of
car-builders. He made the trip to see pre-
cisely what Australia wants in the way of
cars, and in the distance looms the idea that,
English manufacturers may open large
assembly works here. Morris has inspected
some of Australia’s own manufactures and
been surprised at their extent, and he has
intimated that as much work as possible on
his firm’s cars will in future be done in
Australia.
Launcelot Harrison’s death makes the
eighth professorial loss sustained by Sydney
University since 1919. The others were
Anderson Stuart (who founded the Medical
School), biologist W. A. Ilaswell (author
of a masterpiece text-book on zoology), S. J.
Johnston, the brilliant John Hunter. B.
Muscio, W. H. Warren (who founded the
Engineering School and wrote an authorita-
tive book on Australian timbers), and A.
A. Lawson (who established the Botany
School). Every one of them had a reputa-
tion that had helped to lift Sydney Univer-
sity very high amongst the world’s homes of
erudition.
F. T. A. Fricke, assistant sec. of the
Closer Settlement Board, and until recently
head of the Sale, Bairnsdale and Omeo
district branches of Vic. Lands Department,
is first favorite for chief clerk in succession
to Jimmy Butler. Fricke spent four years
in U.S.A. as Vic. Government agent, trying
to attract irrigation settlers.
Sir Robert Horne was hailed by an old
friendly enemy when he arrived in Sydney.
Professor Carslaw, who looks after mathe-
matics at the University, was secretary of
the University Liberal Club, Glasgow, when
Horne was president of the Conservative
Club, and they waged war over the election
of the Lord Rector. A. J. (Lord) Balfour
was the Conservative nominee. Horne had
a brilliant scholastic
career and held
university appoint-
ments after he be-
came a barrister—
examiner in philo-
sophy at the Aber-
deen University
was one of them.
In the last years of
the war he was
Assistant Inspector-
General of Trans-
portation ; but he
went into Parlia-
ment for one of the
Glasgow divisions
in 1918. In 1919
he was Minister for
Labor, in the fol-
lowing year presi-
dent of the Board
of Trade, and,
later, Chancellor
of the Exchequer.
He is a director of
half a dozen of
Britain’s biggest
companies.
Sir ROBERT
HORNE, British
lawyer, financial
magnate and
Ex-Chancellor
of the Exchequer,
now touring
Australia.
George Swinburne’s decision to nominate
for the East Yarra seat in Victoria’s Upper
House has disconcerted friends of Bob Men-
zies the brilliant 33-year-old barrister, lhey
regarded him as a winner if his agent
was the present member, J. K. Merritt.
Merritt will not be a starter, and Swinburne
is 1 quite a different proposition. Although 67,
he still alive physically and mentally, and
he has had experience as a member of the
Assembly and as Water and Agriculture
Minister for five years. He served on the
inter-State (Federal 1 * and Electricity
i State 1 ) Commissions for years, and, livin h
at Hawthorn, the centre of the constituency,
he has kept in touch with householders, who
have the votes for the Plush Chamber Men-
zies has no public service to his credit, but
his status at the Bar is nearly as good as
that of Latham, Federal Attorney-General,
who was little known to Kooyong (virtually
the same locality) until he bested Best.
Menzies’ dad, an ex-Jeparit storekeeper, was
formerly member for Lowan m the Vic.
Assembly, and his brother is Victorias
Crown Solicitor.
MATES.
(TO DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.)
[For The Bulletin.]
Ah! David dear, if there be consciousness
Where thou art gone within the cypressed
There shalt’thou find, thy new essay to bless,
My friends and thine who left us long ago •
The unforgotten mates.
And, for that you and I have loved each
other,
Distance and time shall fail to make you
strange, . , ,
And each dead mate of mine shall be your
brother,
Ev'n though you knew them not on this good
earth
Before their cruel change.
Ah! David dear, if there be consciousness,
And thou canst give a passing thought to
me, *
Place thy kind hand, kindly as in caress,
in the good hands of these good mates of
mine,
Mates of the bush and sea.
The kindly mates whose passing hurt me so,
But hurt me never more than on this day
That thou hast joined them, as in haste to
go;
Though knowing not thy journey’s end, dear
brother,
Nor yet the secret way.
They shall thee guide throughout the shadow-
city,
Where shadow-books are writ by shadow-
men ;
Thou slialt know pleasant meetings, kind and
witty,
With Archibald and Daley, and the others,
The good mates of the pen.
And Henry Lawson, smiling, as of old,
Ere death was kind to him, and coaxed
him in,
Ending his endless march through streets of
Cold,
Of Hunger, Waiting and Contumely,
Will call with Paddy Quinn.
And Victor Daley’s,eyes shall be the brighter,
When he shall see thee new-come from the
earth —-
The earth whose griefs him humor made the
lighter,
The beauteous earth for whom he made new
beauty,
For whom he made new mirth.
If there be silver there, or mines of gold,
There shalt thou find my mates (who
knew not guile)
Of Broken Hill and Zeelian, mates to hold—
Dorrie Doolette, Jim Wilkinson, Jim Faw-
cett —
On a new Golden Mile.
And all the merry men the grave hath
darkened,
Taken by death untimely, as thou art,
Death that to prayer or protest never heark-
ened —
Torpy and Targett, Montgomery and Ham-
mond,
Become of earth a part.
And if thy new life holds an actors’ corner,
Bill Ryan and Dick Stanford will be
there;
Forgetting me (I hope) that am a mourner,
And only glad of you, their new mate, win-
ning
Into the quiet air.
And, if there be blue ocean, cay and coral,
Jack Rossiter shall wait, to give thee
greeting,
Nigh jasmine, frangipanni and the laurel,
With pilots of the reef, in the celestial
New Torres of your meeting.
And, as in your new city law must be,
Tell Nesbit and Will Hordern I remember
The happy times ere death reived them from
me,
And all the golden days We joyed together,
From New Year to December.
So. David dear, if there bo consciousness
In thy new place that knows not shore nor
sea,
And you and my old mates each other bless,
Each happy in the other’s mental touch,
Oh ! then remember me!
QUEENSLAND.
RANIDOLPH BEDEOED.


“ Metro vick” Products Include
The Marh of
Efficiency
TURBO-ALTERNATORS
ROTARY CONVERTERS
AUTOMATIC SUB-STATIONS
SUPERVISORY CONTROL
TRACTION APPARATUS
GENERATORS, A.C. AND D.C.
INDUSTRIAL MOTORS
CONTROL GEAR
TRANSFORMERS
SWITCHGEAR, A.C AND D.C.
INSTRUMENTS
PERMIT US TO QUOTE FOR YOUR REQUIREMENTS.
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
ADELAIDE.
é
BRISBANE
AND
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
USE
SILVER
EDGE
IRfiufiedo*
BRAKE LINING
REPRESENTATIVE:—
JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melb.
BRITISH.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Sydney Feiuues. Ltd.: —
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 45,590 71 p.c. = 38,750 0,840 12,891
1919.. 44,548 74 „ „ 38,750 5,798 15,689
1920.. 52,981 94 ~ „ 50,502 2,479 21,168
1921.. 49,570 8 „„ 47,141 2,429 23,597
1922.. 58,244 8 „„ 48,733 9,511 33,108
1923.. 50,904 8 „„ 49,867 1,097 34,205
1924.. 50,184 8 „„ 49,807 0,317 40,522
1925.. 55,086 8 „ ~ 49,807 5,219 45,741
1926.. 54,242 8 „,, 49,867 4,375 50,116
1927.. 50.458 8 „„ 49,807 021 50,737
At the half-year in July shareholders were
told that something would have to be done to
offset mounting costs if the 8 p.c. was to
continue. Some relief was got when pay-
ments under the Child Endowment Act
ceased at the end of Oct., and at the end
of the year the board announced a “fairly
satisfactory” profit, The £50,488 disclosed
was £3754 'poorer than the figures for the
previous year and only a few hundred pounds
more than the div. demanded. Actually,
though, the position was much better, because
the profit was written after special pro-
vision had been made for depreciation, etc.
The problem that the board has had to
wrestle with was how to provide for the
rapidly-increasing traffic without in the end
being flattened by the Harbor bridge, which
is steadily rising. In 1922 it was decided to
make special provision against the day
when the bridge will wipe out, perhaps com-
pletely, the co.’s two most profitable runs —
the two Milson’s Point services. In 1922
the amount so set aside was £4628 and in
1923 £7449 on three steamers; since then
the sums have not been specified, but the rate
has been increased. That, of course, is in
addition to the usual provision for deprecia-
tion, which up to 1919 was at the rate of
4 p.c. p.a. In 1926 two fine new vehicle car-
riers, Kalang and Kara Kara, were put into
commission. Yet there was a net increase
of only £6069 in the book value of the
shipping property, that amount representing
the payments made in excess of the sum
written off. No additions were made ro
the fleet last year; on the other hand,
besides losing the Greycliffe, the co. saw two
of its small fry, Una and Rose, destroyed
by fire. In the books the value of shipping
property (£331,236) contracted no less than
£48,700. At the same time, partly because
no doubt these vessels were insured, £32,743
was clipped off the debt (£73,609), and the
more or less liquids (£158,384) increased
by £11,487. Thus the liquid surplus
(£84,775) was £44,230 stronger than it was
at the close of the 1926 accounts, notwith-
standing the narrow margin between de-
clared net earnings and distributions: —
1923. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Liquid assets .. £73,729 £138,912 £146,897 £158,384
Liabilities . . 41,726 60,274 106,352 73,609
Surplus . . £32,003 £78,638 £40,545 £84,775
Obviously provision against the falling-off
which will follow the opening of the bridge
is not being neglected, and seemingly current
profits are robust enough to stand the strain
despite mounting costs. The latest decision
to discontinue part of the Parramatta run
is a further indication that the board is
taking no risks; that action will probably
save a little more money, but there is nothing
to be said in support of it from the public’s
point of view.
Here are balance-sheet figures with com-
parisons :
IQ9Q loon IQ9ft 109*7
Liabilities .. £41,727 £60,274 £106,352 £73,609
Landed property.. 92,277 91,333 115,125 115,072
Ship property . . 403,230 373,867 379,936 331,236
Wharves and wait-
ing-rooms .. 43,885 37,773 45,327 50,772
Plant & machinery 3,362 4,395 9,133 8,811
Fuel & stores, etc. 14,021 12,229 14,447 14,097
Shares in other
cos 107,000 107,000 107,000 107,000
Sundry debtors . . 8,900 14,373 20,328 29,384
Public securities,
etc 48,489 110,616 110,607 113,741
Cash . . . . 3,033 .2,693 2,829 2,498
A noticeable feature is the large amount of
money the co. has invested outside the ferry
service. Public securities, land and invest-
ments amount to £335,813, or 43.4 p.c. of the
total assets. Shipping property and the
various appurtenances essential to a ferry
co. are in at £404.916; and many of them are
certainly undervalued. The claim on account
of the Milson’s Pt. resumption, reported to
be in the vicinity of £200,000, is expected
to come before the Courts next month.
Whether the co. in the future will be able
to earn sufficient to pay 8 p.c. on the pre-
sent £023,332 of capital remains to be seen.
Certainly nothing in excess of that can be
looked for; it is much more likely that there
will be a return of capital. Competition from
electric trains and ’buses will tend to keep
fares in check, though better service and new
runs may help to win business. There are also
the returns, not disclosed, from the pup, the
Harbor Land and Transport Cos.. Ltd. This
took over most of the parent’s land property in
1918 for £90,000 in fully paids, of which
£BB.OOO was represented by freeholds and a
trifle of leasehold. In the following year its
assets were found to be worth 50 p.c. more
than their book value, and no doubt they
have greatly appreciated since. Shares in
other cos. are in at £107,000.
The market, which is satisfied with the
position, backs the management and pays
21s. 7d. for the fully paids and 11s. for the
contribs. paid to 10s. The return at those
prices is 7.4 p.c. and 7.3 p.c. respectively on
an 8 p.c. div. basis. The visible backing in
net tangibles amounts to 21s. 7d. per £ of
paid-up capital; ships, wharves, plant, etc.,
represent 12s. 7d.; shares in other cos.,
3s. 5d.; land, 3s. Bd.; and surplus liquids,
Is. lid., after allowing for the final div.
* * * #
The Queensland Meat Export Cos., Ltd.,
from the time the original co. was recon-
structed and pastoral properties were trans-
ferred to the Australian Stock Breeders’
Cos., Ltd: —
To Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1918.. 52,719 8 p.c. = 52,398 321 117,137
1919.. 26.555 Nil 26,585 143,722
1920.. 27,029 6 p.c. = 39,299 131,452
Loss.
1921.. 79,785 Nil 51,667
1922.. 1,610 Nil 50,057
Profits.
1923.. 3,069 Nil 3,069 53,126
1924.. 1,162 Nil 1,162 54,288
1925.. 26,751 4 p.c. = 26,199 552 54,840
, Loss.
1926.. 13,488 Nil 41,352
Profits.
1927.. 12,677 Nil 12,677 54,029
The table tells the story of the hard times
upon which the Australian beef exporter has
fallen since the British Imperial meat pur-
chase contract ended and the Argentine got
a stranglehold on the British and Continen-
tal markets with chilled beef. Locally one
trouble has been heaped upon another; on
top of drought, high prices and labor con-
ditions raised costs to such a level- that ex-
port became unprofitable. Over the past
decade this co.’s shareholders have averaged
less than 2 p.c.; since 1920 its net losses
have totalled £51,224, and as one small
dividend was paid no less than £77,423 of
reserves have disappeared. Half a dozen
years back the position in the industry be-
came so desperate that most of the works
talked about shutting up shop altogether.
Then the Commonwealth Government came
to the rescue, granting a small subsidy on
exports, payment of which continued until
1925. Also some advantage was gained in
that year by the preference granted to Aus-
tralia in British Army contracts for tinned
beef. The latest contract from that quarter
—tenders closed in Dec.—-failed, however,
to come this way.
In 1926 drought severely curtailed opera-
tions and continued over the greater part
of 1927; a shortage of cattle strengthened
prices, and operations at the co.’s two
factories were restricted. All things con-
sidered, the management did well to balance
on the right side at Nov. 30. But the
£12,677 netted, which represents a mere
1.9 p.c. on capital, wrns too poor to pay a
div. One factor which helped results was
the dry spell in N. S. Wales. Seizing the
opportunity, Queensland cos. came on to the
southern markets with chilled beef, and
efforts are being made to hold the business.
Also the export trade brightened a little
toward the close of accounts, but there the
Argentine has great and manifold advant-
ages.
In spite of the long, dry spell the financial
position is quite comfortable: —
IQOQ -IQ9K 1 Q9f? 1Q97
Creditors .. £119306 £78,653 £21,916 £29,909
Property, plant,
livestock and
shares in other
cos. . . 425,798 425,023 438,970 466,262
Stock.. .. 85,557 109,696 70,005 86,885
Stores . . 45,865 34,449 40,553 29,191
Debtors & cash 270,688 245,500 168,716 156,575
The more or less liquids are over nine times
greater than all liabilities; in addition there
are the fixed assets, live stock and shares
in other cos., all in one untidy entry at
£466,262 (up £27,292 during the year). Live
stock probably accounts for most of the
increase. But unfortunately the outlook
cannot be judged upon those figures. The
December rains have brightened prospects
for growers, and good prices for cattle are
likely to continue for a while.
Whether the commission appointed by the
Queensland Government to inquire into the
state of the beef and cattle industry will
be able to find a way to salvation remains
to be seen. The market is not impressed and
offers only 7s. for the pound shares, thus dis-
counting the book value (14s. 2d. per share)
of the principal assets altogether. There is
7s. 7d. per share in the more or less liquid
surplus.
* * * *
The Victoria Palace, Ltd. (Vic.), which
poured the coffee out of its name in 1024 •
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., £ £ £ it £
1918.. 8,134 111 p.c. = 4,387 3747 18,268
1919.. 8,765 161 „ „ 6,337 2428 20,694
1920.. 11,793 224 „ „ 8,775 3OlB 23,712
Reserves capitalised, £19,500.
1921.. 13,935 20 p.c. = 11,700 559 1676 5,888
1922.. 14,462 20 „ ~11,700 941 2762 7,709
1923.. 13,197 20 „ ~11,700 1497 9,200
1924.. 12,426 174 „ ~11,133 1293 10,499
1925.. 16,034 174 „ „ 15,400 634 11,133
1926.. 18,793 174 ~ ~15,400 3393 14,526
Premiums on shares, £4400 .. 18,926
Struck off plant, £3500 .. .. 15,426
1927.. 19,760 20 p.c. = 18,502 1258 16,684
Profits have responded to the outlay on pre-
mises. and the fears of a year ago, when
the chairman hinted that rising costs might
nip another few points off the div., have been
agreeably shattered by a 6d. bonus handed
out with the final 9d., making the total a
juicy 20 p.c. again. And the gift issues in
1918 and 1921 make it worth more to old,
holders. To them the 50 p.c. premium
attached to last year’s new share issue did
not skim off all the cream by any means.
Still, the oldest shareholders of all had to
suffer a writing-off of about 15s. in the £
after the boom burst of the ’nineties. Net
earnings are robust; the year’s £19,760 was
21.3 p.c. on average capital compared with
21.3, 18.2, 18.5 and 22.9 p.c. back to 1923;
but margins are narrow, costs high and re-
serves none too substantial. Much depends,
therefore, upon whether sufficient has been
put by for depreciation and replacements.
Thus far the provisions appear to have been
adequate. The furniture and plant reserve
(£3500) was deducted from the asset last
year, reducing it to £23,936.
Four years ago it became necessary to
enlarge and extend the premises. Anew
building was put up on the Little Collins-
street freehold, and the VVrixon premises,
bought in 1919 for £17,000-odd, were re-
modelled. That affected profits slightly, but
the work was completed early in 1926, and
the demand for accommodation has since ex-
ceeded supply. Then the Coll ins-street lease
was terminated and the office was shifted to
the new building. The move was expected
to result in a falling-off in business, but
revenue has bounded ahead :
Exes. p.c.
Revenue. Exes. of Revenue.
1923.. £56,734 £43,537 76.7
1924.. . 63,815 51,389 80.5
1925.. 76,072 60,038 78.9
1926.. 83,308 64,515 77.4
1927.. 94,844 75,084 79.1
The new cafeterias opened early in the term
were a help. To provide for the growing
demand for accommodation anew nine-
storeyed building adjoining the present
premises is now going up. A 65-years’
building lease of the ground has been
obtained from the Baptist Church, which
will occupy the ground and first floors.
The remaining seven floors, which are ex-
pected to be available by the end of the
current year, will enable the co. to pro-
vide for another 300 guests, making the
total capacity 800. Part of the new building
should be earning in August. The co. pays
no ground-rent, but is to spend £SOOO on
the two floors occupied by the church. To
meet the outlay on the new structure, esti-
mated to run into £IOO,OOO, including fittings,
a mortgage of £40,000 has been arranged,
and 88,000 10s. shares were issued at a
premium of ss. during the year. There was
still £28,625 of capital and £17,600 of
premiums to come in at Dec. 31. When the
issue is fully paid a 20 p.c. div. will call
for £26,400, or £6640 more than was netted
for the past 12 months, and to earn it the
co. will have 60 p.c. greater accommodation
capacity.
The £78,749 of new capital and mortgage
moneys received during, the last four years
has practically all gone into freeholds:—
1923. 1926. 1927.
Paid capital .. ..£58,500 £BB,OOO £103,375
Mortgages .. .. 15,000 49,781 48,874
Other liabilities .. 5,476 9,445 8,578
Freehold land and building 74,547 144,287 154,863
Leasehold buildings ..
Plant, etc. . . .. 13,236 22,534 23,936
Stores 524 774 447
Debtors 452 476 810
Cash, etc 5,273 281 6,383
The business is on a cash basis and surplus
funds are put into buildings and plant.
Liquids, apart from the temporary cash hold-
ing. are a trifling lot, but that factor is
robbed of some of its importance since the
mortgage is redeemable by easy instalments.
The market values the scrip, which has a
net tangible backing of 11s. 7d. per fully-
paid 10s. share, at 21s. 6d. The return at
that figure is 9.3 p.e. on a 20 p.c. div. basis.
* * * *
J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd., leather
manufacturers, etc., Sydney’
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1918 . . 6341 10 p.c. = 5664 677 8,091
1919 .. 6685 10 „ ~ 5664 1021 9,112
1920 .. 9993 10 ~ ~ 6986 3007 12.J19
1921 .. 8585 10 „ „ 7930 655 12,774
1922 .. 8465 10 ~ „ 7930 534 13.309
1923 .. 8117 10 ~ „ 7930 187 13,496
1924 .. 8744 10 „ „ 7930 814 14.310
1925 . . BS3O 10 „ ~ 7930 900 15,210
1926 . . 8790 10 „ ~ 7930 860 16,070
1927 . . 9131 10 „ ~ 7930 1201 17,271
During the year new plant was installed, out-
put increased and there was no difficulty on
the sales side despite the disturbed condi-
tion of China —the co. has built up a sub-
stantial export trade with Asia —so the de-
clared net earnings improved £341, reaching
11.5 p.c. on capital, the best since the boom
of 1920, when 14.3 p.c. was netted. That
was the year before prices crashed; while the
going was good the co. got in £22,600-odd more
capital and remodelled its city premises and
transferred factory operations to the sub-
urbs. Although the leather market has since
remained dull (though shortly before the
close of last accounts prices moved up
sharply owing to a world shortage of hides),
profits have been on a fairly even keel, the
average back to 1923 being 10.9 p.c. com-
pared with an average of 11.7 p.c. for the
preceding five years, and the 10 p.c. to share-
holders has been an annual event since 1916.
The co.’s position is healthy:—
IQ9A IQ9*a IQ9fi 1Q97
Capital .. £79,300 £79,300 £79,300 £79,300
Liabilities . . 28,779 32,854 26,533 31,146
Freeholds . . 58,637 50,576 50,881 50,881
Plant, etc. . . 7,242 7,994 9,013 9,619
Stocks.. .. 45,081 50,639 40,950 46,971
Book debts .. 14,832 21,965 24,473 24.108
Cash, etc. . . 1,908 1,499 1,901 1,353
Despite brisker business, book debts
(±24,108) were a trifle lower, but stocks
(£46,971) were £6o2f heavier, due partly
to increased prices. That more than offset
the £4613 added to the debt (£31,146). Thus
the more or less liquid surplus (£41,286)
was £495 stronger. The outlook is bright
enough, and alterations and additions to
plant are expected to reduce costs during
the current term.
The market values the undertaking as a
steady 8 p.c. proposition and pays 245. 9d.
for the scrip, which has a net tangible back-
ing of 245. 4d., of which approximately 9s.
is in surplus liquids, 12s. lOd. in freehold and
only 2s. 6d. in plant.
.# * * *
D. Mitchell and Cos.. Ltd., merchants,
manufacturers of foodstuffs, etc., of Sydney:
To Re-
Dec., Net Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£>• £ £ £
1918.. 14,012 8 p.c. = 11,775 2237 27,651
1919.. 16,944 8 „ „ 11,775 5169 32,820
1920.. 19,785 9 „ „ 17,250 2535 35,355
1921.. 6,206 6* „ „ 14.625 26,936
1922.. 16,418 7 „ „ 16,750 668 27,604
1923.. 12,478 7 „ „ 15,750 24,332
1924.. 21,725 7} „ „ 16,875 4850 29,182
1925.. 13,882 7 „ ~ 15,750 27,314
1926.. 10,711 7 „ „ 15,750 22,275
1927.. 11,733 7 „ „ 15,750 18,258
Again reserves were dipped into to pay
the div. and the taxgatlierer. This time the
draw was £4017 ; in the previous term £5036
was extracted for the same purpose. Only
twice in the past seven years, according to
the accounts, has the div. been actually
earned. Since 1920 net earnings have fallen
short of distributions by no less than £17,097,
the average net profit being only 5.8 p.c.
and the average div. 7 p.c. If the latter is
to be maintained, and assuming that the
accounts reflect the position accurately, earn-
ings will have to brighten, or exes, will have
to be cut, or both. It is possible that there
may be a trifle put by somewhere —perhaps
in the subsidiary—but it is not likely t'o
amount to much. Margins in the dry-goods
business are slender, and have been for some
while past. And conuitions in the trade are
not getting any better either. A year ago
the board expressed confidence in the out-
look, and the percentage of gross profit has
been maintained, says the chairman. But
after providing an unspecified amount for
interest, depreciation and other charges, the
year’s gross earnings (£117,831) were £7105
short of the 1926 figure, and that suggests
that turnover was not quite so good:—
Gross Profit. Expenses.
1918 .. .. £97,422 £80,418
1920 .. .. 121,95 S 100,745
1921 .. .. 109,734 98,842
1922 .. 117,813 99,705
1923 ... .. 118.273 102.981
1924 .. .. 125,360 101,492
1925 .. .. 119,746 100,563
1926 .. .. 124,936 110,792
1927 . . . . 117,831 102,791
There are few lines for which the co. can
charge fancy prices, and one difficulty has
been to keep exes., even apart from taxatidn.
within bounds. In the near future the
various departments are to be brought under
one roof; thus it is hoped to effect economies
that “should eventually bring the net rate


V
7
SS3
R
m*
m
m
sy
/?
\
m
V/,
/ /?
/??
// ■
///
7x
Va
c
l i
\7i
y«
/vv
«'■■
{\h
V
V^
■J
dlr&i Bl
s
y\
A /
\
WD&HOWILLS
With the Special Ivory Tips
No tobacco can pass your lip
also Cork Tipys&d cxncL
Manufactured m your own
countvy from the finest
Selected Virginia Leaf
Packets of 10 - S?
Packets of 15 V-
Tins of 50


The Mutual Life and Citizens
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.Iv.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man's wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking: out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
ARTHUR EEDY,
General Secretary.
r
v/fi
YC
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
%
D T
j
Swift & Company I,td.. Australasian A cents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Kates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY, J.P., Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager
Don’t Lose Your Money
CONSULT
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly’’
ABOUT YOUR INVESTMENTS.
EXPERTS’ ADVICE GIVEN IN
ALL DEPARTMENTS.
MARCH NUMBER READY
SATURDAY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
ê
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
back to past standards.” One of the chief
troubles is keen competition from small con-
cerns which fight desperately for business:
and times have to be extraordinarily bad
before they go right under.
Liquids were drawn upon to reduce the
debt, but how much of the latter is fixed
and how much current is not exhibited in the
1920. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Liabilities .. £145,136 £195,641 £202,093 £169,700
Properties and
plant .. 24,435 53,309 53,854 53,189
Stock .. 128,350 108,171 121,251 113,201
Book debts, etc. 255,186 279,585 266,826 240,446
Cash, etc. .. 8,770 14,765 15,312 13,997
Exactly what the financial position is it is
difficult to say, because the co.’s holdings in
Mitchell’s Factories, Ltd., in which it owns
all the shares, is shoved in with book debts
at £240,446, which is £26,380 less than the
corresponding entry in 1926. However, the
board has never been suspected of over-
stating the position: fixed assets are in at
a conservative figure, and the books are
free of intangibles.
The scrip has a net tangible backing of
21s. 7d., of which 16s. 10d., including the
shares in the subsidiary, is more or less
liquid, but the market looks at the earning
power and pays only 15s. At that price the
return is 9.3 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
Which suggests that the market hasn’t much
confidence in the 7 p.c.
* * * *
Some time ago, whey the Federal Govern-
ment announced it was about to collect a
royalty on gold won on the New Guinea gold-
fields, there was a vigorous protest from the
miners concerned, and, realising that an
injustice was proposed, the Federal Govern-
ment announced that it had forsaken all
thought of the grab. Surprise was general
among those interested when the Federal
authorities recently again announced the im-
position of a royalty, and a 5 p.c. one at
that —extortionate under the circumstances.
This development was followed by a meeting
of miners on the field, which sent a protest
to the Minister, and asked for the abandon-
ment of the proposal. The protest also
stated the intention of the miners to refuse
to ship gold from New Guinea, and to other-
wise oppose, in every lawful way, the im-
position of the royalty. In nearly every gold-
mining country the digger is exempt from
royalty payments, the fees paid for his
miners’ right and for registrations of claims,
water-races, etc., being rightly deemed a
sufficient burden on the small man. In
Papua, where the difficulties and hardships
were much on a par with those attending on
the Bulolo fields to-day, no attempt was ever
made to compel the payment of royalty of
any sort by the individual digger, though
such producing cos. as New Guinea Copper
pay royalty on the gold content of the red
metal, they turn out. The cost of winning
gold in such country is very heavy, and, to
make matters worse, the Bulolo and Edie
Creek gold is of low value. A 5 per cent,
royalty is nothing less than blundering stu-
pidity, especially when one considers that the
miner already pays heavy taxation on his
stores, tools, native indentures and a hundred
other little items.
* * * *
Mt. Isa (Q.), it has to be remembered,
is a field, not a mine. In the carbonate zone
its biggest ore body—Black Star —has aver-
age width of 180 feet; average assay, lead
9 p.c., silver 3oz. Black Rock and Rio
Grande are normal bodies from 6ft. to 20ft.
wide, but carry richer ore ; average lead 23
p.c. and silver 9oz„ and lead 16 p.c. and silver
Soz. respectively. Ore reserves so far developed
are 4,295,000 tons in the carbonate zone. It
is too early yet to assess the sulphide zone,
which is now being prospected with seven
diamond drills. The first few sulphide bores
in the big body confirmed the lead and silver
assays on top and showed in addition 10.6
p.c. zinc.
* * * #
At Roma things are quiet, with the No. 1
bore under control and discharging small
quantities of petroleum. These discharges
show fluctuations in percentages of total
fluids and have touched 20 p.c. again after
having receded to 10 p.c. The need for new
boring plant, the cost of No. 2 hole (selected
by Dr. Woolnough) and the scout drilling
to determine the shape and extent of the
structural dome on Hospital Hill are the
raison d’etre of the new increase of capital
foreshadowed. It is well for the consumma-
tion of a really sustained prospecting effort
that the moral and financial support of the
Commonwealth Government is behind the
co. On the law of averages, taking new
fields in America as the guide, it is probable
that many deep bores will be necessary
before results are crowned with commercial
supplies, even assuming that the stuff is
somewhere there in quantity.
* * * *
The last reports from the Great Northern
Herborton (N.Q.), hold nothing of special
consolation for shareholders. Very little ore
is coming from the mine; and if it were not
for profits from the mill in treating customs
ore, the finances of the old mine would be up
Queer-street. Manager Sam Day still be-
lieves he will strike a payable satellite of the
big-dividend shoot in the Gully-shaft work-
ings. The workings near the porphyry dyke
and the defunct ore body between the 340 ft.
and 430 ft. levels now resemble a rabbit-
warren, with crosscuts, winzes, etc., repre-
senting so many stabs into the unknown ;
but all have been without recompense. It
looks now as if the shoot was a singleton,
and probably the co.’s better plan would be
to concentrate more on the eastern lodes.
Prospects look fair there, with a little tin
and spar showing. This, too. is the locale
of the old Bank of England shoot which
made the Great Northern prosperous a gen-
eration ago.
* * * *
Coorong Oil (S.A.) has issued a circular
to shareholders stating that Captain de
Hautpick has been testing the Coorong by
geophysical methods since December 15, and
to date the result has been most satisfac-
tory. It is anticipated he will complete his
preliminary test in two or three months’
time. In addition to oil, Captain de Haut-
pick has located indications of radium and
other rare metals, and it is the directors’
intention to investigate the possibility of
producing these on a commercial basis. It
seems to be the most ambitious claim yet
made by anybody professing to use geo-
physical methods of survey.
* * :|! *
Claude de Bernales, vendor and big share-
holder in Wiluna, returned from London the
other day with the Australian rights of
Dvorkovitz’s process for extracting oil from
coal in his pocket. Bernales claims that
plants working on a complete commercial
scale are successfully treating coals from
numerous British mines. He says an extrac-
tion of 50 p.c. of the volatile vegetable matter
or crude-oil contents of the coal is obtained,
while the residue still remains of a calorific
value equal to that of the original coal
supplied. The residue possesses the addi-
tional advantages over the original coal of
being both smokeless and more suitable for
use as pulverised fuel.
* * * *
Anew industry, cleaning up around old
plants, is flourishing on Westralian gold-
fields. On some mines the job is done on
a percentage basis, on others the right is
sold for a consideration. In the latter case
gold illicitly obtained from near and far is
occasionally included in the returns. This
is said to be a better safeguard against
detection than the old method of obtaining
a “rich crushing” from a “new find” or “old
claim,” accompanied (as a rule) by a local
paper whoop about the revival in mining.
* * * *
Wiluna, having spent nearly a quarter of
a million in developing its Westralian pro-
perty, and having opened up ore of a gross
value of £2,000,000, proposes to raise further
capital, probably in April, by the issue of
200,000 new shares. These will probably be
offered at a premium and mostly taken by
J he several big concerns which now hold the
bulk of the shares.
❖ # * *
Associated Mining and Finance Cos., which
acquired most of the old Associated’s Cana-
dian interests when it gave up business,
shows a profit for its last year, but paid no
dividend. The fall in silver has greatly
affected the value of ventures in which the
co. is interested. In addition to its Canadian
interests the co. holds 60,000 Wiluna shares.
$ * * *
Golden Horseshoe (W.A.) is lucky. Last
year it got £50,000 from the State Govern-
ment to dig at depth, and now it has obtained
an additional £SOOO for the same purpose.
Three members of Cabinet represent the
district in which it carries on operations, so
of course its needs don’t go unnoted. Referring
to the failure of efforts to effect an amalgama-
tion with neighboring mines, chairman Buck-
nail said at the annual meeting that the
great difficulty was one of finance and the
raising of additional capital. He would not
hazard a guess as to what was in store for
shareholders, but nothing would be left un-
done to bring about a more satisfactory
state of affairs. They certainly couldn’t well
be less satisfactory.
* ❖ * #
Westralian Manganese Cos., controlled by
Bill Hedges, McCallum Smith and others, is
seeking assistance. A line has been built
according to Government specifications from
the State railway terminus at Meekatharra
to the co.’s immense deposits near Peak Hill,
but there is no money left to break out and
ship the ore abroad in big lots. W. S.
Robinson and friends, it is said, are willing
to lend a helping hand on certain conditions,
and Hedges has gone east to confer with
them.
* * * *
Great Boulder (W.A.) has a lot to thank
tributors for. The treatment of their ore
last year enabled the co. to show a profit of
£17,650 compared with a loss of £l6Bl for
the previous 12 months, and this year’s
results so far are satisfactory; tributors’
parcels have yielded over 60,0000 z., and a
lot of stuff is still in sight.
Mararoa (W.A.) has made another call.
This time the money is required for boring
in the sulphide zone of the co.’s overrated
property. The directors claim that, with the
existing ore reserves, accumulated tailings
and possibilities at depth, shareholders pos-
sess a very valuable property. They are
optimists.
5{S H! Jfc *
Sick and tired of trying to find something
new, one or two eastern cos. have sent repre-
sentatives to the West to see if anything has
been overlooked. Already some good dis-
coveries have been made by local syndicates
in old fields, and Adelaide and Melbourne no
liability concerns eager for a market flutter
are anxious to find something, too.
* * * *
Roll-down and other games having been
barred at Cottesloe Beach, Perth’s popular
seaside resort, their place has been taken
by a petroleum hunt promoted by the South
Victorian Prospecting Cos., which declares
naively that the local public has only got to
find the money and it will bore on a portion
of the beach which has been “reported on
favorably as a possible oil concentration.” So
far the offer has not been rushed.
* * * *
Tongkah Compound, which has nowadays
entered on a career of prosperity, lias pur-
chased two properties named Ngow and
Banngow, in Takuapa, Siam, from Eastern
Tin, another Melbourne concern whose
directorate is very much the same as the
purchasing co.’s. Eastern Tin some time ago
took over the above and other options from
Tinsongkhla, another Melbourne flotation
which, in its turn, was formed to take over
the undertakings of Eastern Options. Tin-
songkhla has now started out in life as a
dredging co., or, rather, is preparing to. All
the shows above mentioned are under the
Palfreyman banner. The new properties are
to be known as Tongkah Compound No. 3,
No. 2 having been in action for some time,
and returning good results. Nominal
capital will be £150,000 in £1 shares, and the
purchase price is £44,000, payable £OOOO in
cash and £38,000 in f.p. shares in the new
co., which is being underwritten by Tongkah
Compound. Shareholders in Eastern Tin
will have the right to apply for half the
contribs. in the new flotation. The combined
areas are about 610 ac. The Ngow has been
bored for an average value of 120 z., and 140
acres have been checked for an average of
1740 z. Banngow has been scout-bored for
an average of half a pound; average depth
of both areas is given as 22ft.
* * * *
The annual reports of three of Alluvial
Tin’s later subsidiaries are to hand and are
of the more interest since they are all in
the much-discussed Kinta Valley. Iluala
Kampar, registered in 1925, only began
digging in January, 1927, and the report to
June 30 deals with but 5$ months’ opera-
tions. These showed a profit of £2BIB, after
writing off £1727 for initial exes, and
charges, and this was carried forward. Pro-
duction was 85 tons tin oxide valued at
£15,073, taken from 520,000 c.y. Dredge
working costs were £8157 ; management costs
in Malaya and Sydney, £2360. Average
return on yardage given above works out at
over .391 b. Average for last quarter of 1927
was, roughly, .451 b., though in the big Janu-
ary turnover of 170,000 yards the content
dropped to .351 b. Averages so far have not
measured up to estimates, but estimates of
working profits are conservatively based on
tin at £2OO London. At June 30 last autho-
rised and paid up capital was £130,000, and
premitim on shares £7500. Creditors were
owed £5557. Assets included area at £60,510,
dredge at cost £56,777, plant and machinery
at cost £1948, buildings and furniture at
cost £4924, tram lines, rolling stock, etc.,
£2686, development £8477, stocks £3296,
sundry debtors £4289, and cash in hand
£2899. Directors reported themselves well
satisfied, and stated that the first dividend
was in sight. Spite the slump in tin, the
outlook is far from depressing.
••••••
Tanjong Tualong’s report for the same
period states that owing to extensive neces-
sary alterations the dredge could not be com-
pleted until July, 1927. Scarcity of water
then hampered operations, and serious dig-
ging did not commence till October. The
report does not cover these, but monthly
returns show that the dredge was turning
over large yardages by the end of December,
the average for the quarter, with a half-
time run in October, being ,531 b. January's
figures showed an average of ,631 b. The bor-
ing estimate was lib. to the yard for two-
fifths of the acreage, and the balance .661 b.
to the yard; and profit estimates were
based on tin at £2OO London. Capital, fully
paid and issued, is £130,000, and premium on
shares £7500. The co. owes £15,242 to asso-
ciated cos., and sundry creditors are owed
£lB. Assets include property at £66 646’
dredge at cost, £61,320. Buildings, rolling
stock, etc., with development (£ll 733)
lilm cash in hand (£1015), bring the’ totai
assets to £152,761. Considering all things
Tanjong has made a satisfactory if delayed
è


“SOMETHING ATTEMPTED, SOMETHING DONE.”


e
e
0
Bottles 0f36—8'3
Bottles oflOO-4'9
£ 25g?Si5T?§S-'
Yeaston
¥<
Pure Dried
Brewers Yeast
Dose
One To ■four Tablets
Rocke Tompsitt ».C o
7T,
“(fDelow par” conditions which make you feel middle-a&ed are
generally caused by an unhealthy condition of the colon.
Closed with over-refined food, unclean through lack of exercise, the
colon transmits poisons from waste through the whole system.
Yeast cells soften the contents of the colon, promote regular elimination,
build up vigorous, hardy health. Yeaston Tablets are pure, living
yeast cells in handy form.
Accept no substitute for Yeaston!
A FULL SIZE SAMPLE BOTTLE
will be sent to you, post free, if you simply
cut out this advertisement (or mention the
“Bulletin”) and send with your name and
address to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO. PTY. LTD.
Flinders Street - - - Melbourne.
“A clear, spotless
skin denotes
health from within.”
Nature’s
Corrective
Tonic Food/
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Girl Friend”
Criterion' “All the King’9 Horses”
Royal “The Trial of Mary Dugan”
Palace “The Goldfish”
Empire “The Film Girl”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Student Prince”
King’s “Thark”
Royal ‘.‘ The Terror ’
Athenasum Moving Pictures
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic" 7. . .7 Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
The Heath Burdock production of
“Twelfth Night,” which started on its four
nights’ run on Thursday at Sydney Conser-
vatorium, began rather inauspiciously when
a. funereal gentleman announced “If music
be the food for love, play on,” as if lie were
saying “Now, gentlemen, please, the funeral
is about to move off.” Nevertheless the
play was on the whole spiritedly rendered.
The school children, who were there in force
because Sliakspeare is good for them, showed
a whole-souled and noisy appreciation of the
comedy points, rather unduly broadened for
their benefit; a Sir Andrew Aguecheek, with
a squeaky voice and remarkably thin legs,
specially appealed to them. The Malvolio of
Heath Burdock, although his diction was
good, was a trifle lacking in color, and the
humiliated steward was given a tamer finish
than is his due; but Bryson Taylor, who
gathered applause for his singing of each of
the clown’s songs, was a lively Feste, and
missed few of the points of the part. Mollie
Ivirwan was a good Viola; Doris Williams,
although rather recitative, a fair Olivia;
Edward Cavill was vigorous and sincere as
Antonio, and Beryl Jackson animated as
Maria; whilst Vincent Doyle and Kenneth
Rendor, although the latter sometimes for-
got the squeak in his voice, managed the
humors of Sir Toby Belch and Sir Andrew
Aguecheek creditably enough. E. It. Howell,
as mentioned, was a lugubrious Orsino, un-
cheered even by the prospect of matrimony
which Shakspeare gives the love-sick ruler in
the last act, and Leon Marina failed to give
any robustness to the part of Sebastian.
Frank Appleton, as Fabian, was inclined to
regard some of his most important lines as
stage confidences. The entrance of Walter
Francis, as the Priest, in a cowl and gown
which hung upon him like an extinguisher
over a candle, was greeted by the younger
members of the audience as one of the hits
of the play, but he spoke his few lines very
finely. To-night (Wednesday) Arthur
Greenaway will present his version of the
same Sliakspearean comedy at the Conser-
vatorium. The season lasts until Saturday,
when there will be a matinee as well.
v v *l’ ®
Apparently the changeable weather has,
had an adverse effect upon Sydney theatres,
where most of the present shows are under
notice to quit. The life of “Mercenary
Mary” has been extended until Friday of
next week, the night before the Fullers’
grand-opera season is due to commence. “All
the King’s Horses” finishes on the same night
in order to make way for “Caroline,” which
is to run only for a short season before “The
High Road,” another Lonsdale play, is pro-
duced at the Criterion; the Palace, where
Muriel Starr has found it profitable to run
“The Goldfish” for a week longer than in-
tended, will see a new play—“ The Donovan
Affair” —on March 10. “The Film Girl” at
the Empire is in its closing weeks; “Taking
the Air” is due on March 27. Amongst all
this shuffling Leon Gordon, who holds his
mid-week matinee on Thursdays, is only just
thinking about rehearsing a new piece to
replace “The Trial of Mary Dugan” at the
Royal. “The Girl Friend” will continue at
Her Majesty’s until “Rose Marie” comes
back for Easter; at the Grand Opera House
Frank Neil finds that “Up in Mabel’s Room”
answers all present requirements.
Ann Suter continues to give an unusual
amount of zip to an excellent Tivoli pro-
gramme. The lively lady with the india-
rubber face is such an artist that it is no
handicap to her that some of her songs have
had the freshness worn off them. “I Thought
I’d Die” was sung before, for instance, by
an American lady with a thin, piping voice
who made it meaningless; delivered by the
lively Ann, it takes on quite a new aspect.
Tom Katz and his saxophonists rival the
lady in popularity, and Murray confounds
people who think they can tie him up. “The
Bie Four,” disguised as soldiers, are popular ;
but the act could do with a cake of soap.
Jim Gerald has found that “For the Dura-
tion” can run with profit for an extra week;
hence the volunteers from Bungawallop will
continue to march into camp at Fullers’
(Sydney) until after Friday. Jim himself
is as entertaining as ever as Muggins, the
rouseabout.
Sydney’s thirst for new sensations not
having yet been sated by the goat racing
which is the major draw’ at the Coo-ee
Carnival at the Sports Ground, a new
attraction has been introduced by securing
popular jockeys to drive the horned steeds.
But some fresh whirl of excitement was
needed, and the result is that a small army
of misguided young women rushed an
offer to submit themselves for selection as
the feminine makeweight which, strapped to
parachutist Q’viller, is to make a drop from
an aeroplane over the Sports Ground
on Thursday night. Even those girls who
were passed out had the pleasure of dis-
playing their charms before the sightseers
who were curious about the selection. Une
can readily understand that if the parachut-
ist merely tied a sack of potatoes instead of
a bundle of live girl to himself as ballast
the stunt would be a comparatively tame one
from the viewpoint of Coo-ee Carnival pat-
rons. But even 'granting that Q’viller, a man
of steel nerves and endurance, has a right
to risk his own neck, the authorities might
justifiably interfere when another person is
concerned. This sort of thing is morbid
sensationalism run wild.
“THE GOLDFISH," AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Muriel Starr as the “Goldfish Cutie,” and
Harvey Adams as the Count who taught
her to be a lady.
Good character work in which the actors
have backed the ideas of the scenario writer
lifts “The Underworld,” shown at Sydney
II ay market, above the ruck of those films
which consist mainly of pistol shots and
robbery. The Lyceum shows a new version
of “Cheating Cheaters,” which compares un-
favorably with a former one wherein Clara
Kimball Young was the leading lady; a
great deal of the old ingenuity is lost in a
weedy use of slang and cumbersome detail.
In “Silk Stockings,” Hoyt’s (which also
shows Tim McCoy in “Spoilers of the
West”) has something containing all the
brightness and gaiety which should be in
that kind of hose.
* * * *
When the rising of the curtain reveals
the nobby interior of Sir Hector Benbow's
flat in Mayfair and when the “cast of
characters in the order of their first appear-
ances” get under way with Hook, the
comic butler, and Louise, the French maid,
speculating on where their master spent last
night, even the most unsophisticated playgoer
knows what is to come. When, furthermore,
the next character to burst upon the story is
Cherry Buck, a leading lady disguised, re-
gardless of expense, in the priceless furs
invariably worn by stage shopgirls; when
it transpires she has a dinner-engagement
with the master; when the next arrival is a
telegram announcing that Lady Benbow is
unexpectedly coming to town; and when the
final apparition is Ronald Gamble, a leading
man in such an idiotic state of complaisance
that he is prepared to risk losing the affec-
tions of a jealous ingenue by agreeing to take
the shopgirl off the titled roue’s hands for
one evening—well, the post-graduate in Eng-
lish farce-comedy settles back and prepares
not to be surprised by anything. “Thark,” at
Melbourne King’s, is the latest stereotype
from the Ben Travers manufactory, but it
has one unexpected feature. The original
plot ends abruptly at the first curtain with
the usual exposures and explanations. The
third act, a mild satire on the mystery play
staged in the haunted house of Thark, makes
use of the same job lot of characters, but
has no visible connection with the other. The
middle act is an epilogue to the first and a
prologue to the second. As Ronald Gamble,
the young man who takes Sir Hector’s tart,
Hastings Lynn atones for the Seymour Hicks-
ian unoriginality of his style by the untir-
ing industry with which he infuses fun into
a dialogue not overloaded with humorous
possibilities. His efforts might be better sup-
ported. Wflla Lindberg and Leslie Victor
perform light domestic duties satisfactorily,
and Minnie Rayner is physically conditioned
to give pungent reality to the part of a
newly-rich vulgarian : but Helene Simon, as
the shop-attendant, is an artificial star. Jane
Comfort has been much boomed as the pos-
sessor of an eyeglass, and that aid to art is
the sole mark of distinction she gives to the
part of Lady Benbow. Cyril Vernon en-
shrouds her husband’s amorous outlook in
a solemn naturalness which is productive of
several short, sharp laughs. The dining-room
at Tliark is an aristocratic testimonial to
the taste and skill of scene-painters Upward
and Board.
The final performance of “The Student
Prince” at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, A/ill
be on Wednesday, March 7. Three days
later the theatre will settle down to “Ruddi-
gore.” Maurice Moscovitcli is still presid-
ing over the reign of Terror at the Royal,
and the Athenaeum management continues
a staunch believer in the films. “Tarnish,”
at the Princess on Saturday, is the only
change this week. It will bring B, tty
Ross Clarke back in a lighter role than the
only one Melbourne has hitherto seen her
in—that of the crooked lady of “The Ghost
Train.” Warde Morgan will be included
in the cast of Talented and Popular Players.
* * * *
The Bulletin has been credibly in-
formed that the prices for the Melba-
Williamson gr’opera season, opening in
Melbourne on May 12, will be on the most
moderate scale. First-nighters will be asked
to pay a guinea, plus tax, for a seat in the
reserved stalls or d.c., but first first-nighters
will have to pay for their impatience double
the above figure. These prices, as far as
this paper remembers, are the same as were
asked in 1924. “Aida” will be the initial
outburst, instead of the untried “Turandot,”
as previously promised.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
Next week will be the ‘end of the
close season for classical composers in Mel-
bourne. On March 7 at the Town Hall the
University Symphonists will go out after
Beethoven’s Prometheus overture, and war
will be waged on other seldom-performed
pieces. Later Fritz Hart’s organisation will
make mass attacks On several works not
lately aired in Australia, including some
Gustav Holst and the unfamiliar Scotch
symphony of Mendelssohn. Music-lovers
will be reminded that this is Schubert’s
100th deatliday by a performance of his great
symphony in C major.
* * :1= *
“The Ladybird” is the rage at Melbourne
Majestic this week. The insect or wildfowl
mentioned is lightsome Betty Compson, who
decides to earn her own living, in. spite of
her high breeding. Her decison is disas-
trous for the underworld, a large wad of
whose denizens are
captured as a sort
of by-product of
Betty’s restlessness.
Hoyt’s hearts are
beating in time to
“A Waltz Dream,”
a fine picturisation
of the Oscar
Strauss operetta
made in Germany.
■Present writer
has no intention at
present of going on
the stage, but if he
had he would go to
his dermatologist
and order a black
skin. Nothing but
their various
degrees of excessive
pigmentation can
exnlain the fact
that Sonny Clay’s Discolored Ideas are
packing Melbourne Tivoli as no white enter-
tainer has for many moons. The Lack of
Ideas include a Plantation band with a fine
crop of musical diseases at its roots.
* % $
Only a miracle-working djin could make
the Melbourne Exhibition Building look any-
thing but the garish barn it is, but the
British Trade Exhibition is doing pretty
well in the circumstances. There has been
some acid argument in the press about
the exclusion of Australian manufactures,
and it would not have done the exhibition any
harm, from the point of view of showman-
ship, if some had been included. The display
is rather too solid and Britishly businesslike.
It lacks the charm of suggestion, and no-
where makes passionate appeals to the
imagination. It would take a lot of the
latter quality, for instance, to visualise,
behind the Dorman-Long booth, such a
gigantic work as the Sydney Harbor bridge.
The exhibition of Australian manufactures
a year or so ago was more intimate.
An aeroplane, however, which can be folded
into a garage 11 feet wide, and which bears
the laconic ticket “£760,” is drawing the
eyes of the t.p. throng. The show was
opened somewhat lugubriously to British
music of an almost exclusively sacred kind.
Presumably the promoters wanted to rub in
the lesson that buying British goods was a
religious duty.
s): * * *
The wardrobe of Stiffy and Mo, who this
week are finding store of humor in a harem
on the Ganges, is not allowed to absorb too
much of the £llO per mensem they are sup-
posed to divide between them, but Melb.
Bijou patrons, apparently, don’t tire of
watching the pair in the same suits of
clothes. The eighteenth change of programme
finds Amy Rochelle with a new garland of
songs, and a pretty ballet headed by a dainty
dancer prances in accordance with the fixed
convention governing Oriental dances, which
includes holding out the hands as if feeling
for rain. A slick, recurrent factor of the
entertainment is Sadie Gale.
* *
Art run wild :
The musical critics had hardly recovered from
Gershwin’s “Rhapsody in Blue” last week when
their brother practitioners of art had to sustain a
somewhat similar attack from another direction. This
was the exhibition at the Fine Arts Gallery of “L’Art
Vivant,” collected in Paris by scene-painter Leslie
Board at the instigation of George Tallis, for the
decoration of the new Williainsonian theatres. The
Firm, apparently, has followed its sound business
policy of catering for all tastes. Even a cursory
inspection reveals that “L’Art Vivant” comprises not
one school but a round half-dozen, including some
kindergartens. In the musical-comedy class, so to
speak, is the gorgeous theatricality of “The Dolly
Sisters,” by Lucien Maillot, in which the torsos of
that desirable pair emerge from their ballet skirts
like two juicy cutlets out of their paper collars.
The intellectual drama is represented by a huge
canvas depicting types in the Belgian Black Country
and executed with a highly competent hand and a
photographic eye by Alexandre Martin. Of melo-
drama there are several examples. There is the
young man whom a mug of beer and the screaming
of an easy lady are driving to thoughts of home —
the nostalgic youth’s coat looks like an attempt cn
the artist’s part to make something out of a spilled
pot of laundry blue. Another is a phthisical
girl with no “body in her dress and no bones in her
legs; still another is a huge group of stiff women
clad in the primary colors the Solomon Islanders find
most alluring. A squashed feminine face with black
wriggles down one side is evidently an attempt to
paint, as Matisse prayed to be allowed to paint, like
a little child, and it certainly succeeds. One or
two honest attempts at realism by Raoul Dastrac
invite comparison with the work of Meldrum students
in Australia, and a mother in a pink frock holding a
baby against the sun might be a Phillips Fox.
Despite the catalogue, untrammelled by convention
these artists certainly are not. Each is supposed,
like a trance medium, to retire into his inner con-
sciousness and let his emotions do the work. What
his emotions produce is invariably very like what
somebody has done before.
THE MAN WHO INSISTED ON REVEALING THE
SECRET OF “THE TERROR.”
Gilbert and Sullivan still have the old
drawing power in Adelaide, where it has been
difficult to get into the Royal. In the com-
paratively rare “Ruddigore” Walenn had big
chances as the rustic lover who somehow de-
clined a baronetcy 20 years back; and again
as the Major-General and the “lolanthe”
Chancellor he scored. James Hay varies
from sailor-lad to Nankipoo, and Strella Wil-
son’s ringing soprano dominates the <old
familiar ballads. At West’s Lillian Gish and
John Gilbert revive the old “Boheme” sor-
rows on the screen, while Vera Thrush and
Harold Gard sing its music. The other Gish
sister realises the historic Pompadour—
idealised and fumigated—at Wondergraph
in a picture of British make, and the York
has a powerful “Fire Brigade” story of vil-
lainous wealth and deserving poverty. Also
Pat Hanna’s Diggers are still at the Gar-
dens in the open air; and Clifford Lathlean
has brought back to the Town Hall a voice
refined by four years of European experience.


Such a reputation is not won overnight”
if
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 /or 9d ♦ . ♦ . 20 for 1/6
Major Drapkin <B Co.. London. Branch of The United 'WHW’ Kingdom Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
AH3IA
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“Herodot”: The custom of piercing the
septum of the nose to insert a stick or some
other ornament (B. 8/2/’2B) is common to
all primitive peoples from the Esquimos to
the islanders of the Pacific, and from the
Indian tribes of South America to _ the
nomads of the Siberian steppes. A widely
distributed custom, utilitarian in nature, may
conceivably be evolved spontaneously in
half a dozen different places, but the nose-
niercing practice has no such applicatio .
The sole conclusion to which one can come
is that in past ages it originated in o
focal point and thence spread throughout
the then known world.
* * * *
“Momokeni”: Now that Papuan natives
count their wealth in sterling instead of
shell ornaments and stone axeheads, they
have begun to save. At first they did not
believe in banks, but hid the cash away m
their huts. The villagers of Tatana expen-
enced the disadvantages of
this primitive method of
saving when a fire de-
stroyed every house in
the village and their sav-
ings went up in smoke.
Since that time bank
accounts have been opened
by a large number of
thrifty natives, some of
whom can now write
three-figure cheques. But
it took a good deal of
explanation to make the
natives understand the
question of interest. A
few of the honest ones
tried to give their interest
back, arguing that as they
hadn’t put it in it wasn’t
theirs to take out. Natu-
ral increase from pigs and
dogs was understandable,
but, as one old man
argued at the Savings
Bank, “Pound-notes can’t
have piccaninnies”; and
many of them thought
there was a catch in it
somewhere. As in other
parts of the world the
hook-nosed Kiwais —the
“black Jews” of Papua—
have always been keener
on saving their money
than their more careless
eastern brothers.
“Eureka”: How many different sorts of
bandicoot does Australia possess? I have
met the pig-footed ’coot, the striped ’coot, the
long-nosed, the short-nosed, the golden, the
spiny-furred and the grizzled-yellow. There
are many more varieties no doubt.
MEMORIES OF A WAR.
ANGELINA (gushing): “I’m sorry I kept you late, Digger dear. It was the beauty-
parlor woman’s fault.”
PRIVATE BLUEY (fed up and after a swift examination ): “Yes, and I see the old cow
didn’t turn up, after all.”
“Sherlock Holmes”: I nominate one
Fleming as the rude forefather of the tribe
of Abo.-liars. In the “Australian Diction-
ary of Dates” appears the following: A
black snake, 22 feet long,
was killed on the lower
branch of the Hawkes-
bury by Mr. Fleming, a
settler, in January, 1826.”
That, however, was in
the days of rum currency.
THROWING THE RESPONSIBILITY ON THE PUDDING.
“Could you find a corner for another helping of pudding, Jacky?”
“Mine tinkit this pfeller put it down ’im neck and let it take it chance, boss.”
“AdcL.” : In parts of Arnheim’s Land and
the Gulf country, particularly near the foot-
hills of the coastal ranges .westward, from
Burketown, where I live, is a species of
small singing frog found nowhere else.
Although they love swampy grounds, these
frogs spend most of their time out of water,
hunting and singing. They are abroad day
and night, fine or wet, chasing mosquitoes
and flies, taking cover in the long grass or
under rubbish or bark when pursued by
enemies. They invade one’s camp -by dozens,
hopping in and out of boxes, blankets and
clothing, seeking the pockets of the latter for
preference. In my office many merry croak-
ers are hidden in the stationery; some ven-
ture even on the typewriter, clogging the
keys as I write. When I throw them out
they look at me with large, innocent brown
eyes and hop back on the machine.
* ❖ * *
“The Rumpus” : Of all the rock-cod varie-
ties of fish, the groper, found on Westralia’s
sou’-west coast (I suppose it. has some
other name in the effete East, if it exists
there), is the best eating. From the rocks
he may be seen nosing among the waving
seaweeds. He is anything from eight inches
to nearly four feet in length, blue-looking
when in the water, but a blend of black,
yellow and green when landed. A groper
is known by the back curl of his top lip and
generally liy his smashed teeth. These become
damaged through rushing at crabs, but the
impact smashes the quarry’s back, thus
enabling the attacker to swallow it almost
whole. The groper is a hard fish to prepare
for cooking, as his -body, after scaling, throws
off layers of slime. Out of the frying-pan
I wouldn’t swap him for the best fish on the
menu.
* * * *
“Old Timer” : The story told by “Humph-
rey Beale” (B. 25/l/’2B) recalls a similar
friendship between a fox terrier and a calf.
When a pup the terrier found its way to the
calf-pen one cold night, and snuggled on top
of the calf for warmth. Thereafter when the
calf was fed from the bucket Foxy licked the
milk from its nose. As the calf grew the dog
followed it over the paddocks while it grazed,
and answered its bellow. When it lay down
Foxy lay on it if the day were cold, or by its
side if the day were warm. The calf is milk-
ing now and on its third calf. But the
terrier still sticks to his old companion and
shares the licks with each calf in succession.
* * * *
“Bihai” : The prehensile toe, so useful to
the cookie boy when the chop falls off the
plate, was once the determining factor in an
inter-trihal war. Two neighboring villages in
Papua, Moviavi and Motumotu, each having
a fighting force ot nearly a thousand war-
riors, had fought several indecisive battles
and declared an armistice during the planting
season. At this time the bow and arrow was
unknown so far east. From _ its home in
the western swamps and deltas it was intrud-
ing into the sand beaches of the coast at
Orokolo. Hearing of this new weapon, the
chiefs of Moviavi sent an embassy bearing
valuable gifts to Orokolo to obtain instruc-
tion in the art of archery. On the return of
the envoys the whole fighting force of
Moviavi was armed with bows and arrows
instead of the customary long and heavy
spear. After assiduous practice in secret
had brought dexterity and confidence, a chal-
lenge was sent to Motumotu to give battle
on a wide kura-kura grass plain. On the
appointed day the Motumotu warriors
emerged from the scrub to find the long line
of their opponents armed with nothing but
bundles of slender spears. With a yell they
left cover, rushing to meet the apparently
helpless foemen. The bows of the Moviavis
lying hidden in the long grass were swiftly
grasped by the prehensile toes, and before the
spearmen had crossed half the intervening
distance clouds of arrows mowed them down
and the charge fizzled out. “A dirty trick,“
said the vanquished, but the drubbing they
received was such that to this day a Moviavi
boy is accorded the right of the track by a
boy from Motumotu.
* * * *
“Toonooba”: In recent years collectors
have gleaned from Barrier Reef waters a
giant whelk, rejoicing in the name of Mega-
latractus aruanus, which exceeded by a
couple of inches the former record specimen
described by American scientists; also a
bivalve (Hipopus hipopus , a close relative
of the clam family) 19in. long. The largest
known previously, housed in London, was
only llin.
* * * *
“Mundowie”: Bill went into One-horse
Town for an outfit. On the previous trip
for the same purpose he had gone to the
pub first, and returned with a cargo of
bottled stuff and a sore head. This time he
rode past the pub and tied his horses in
front of Johnny Allsorts’ store. Johnny
liked to see the cheques come straight to
his door. He always had a bottle for good
customers, and it was produced as soon as
Bill had come to the end of his few wants.
Then Mr. Allsorts, being a garrulous person,
talked about the town and district till it was
time for another glass. That loosened Bill’s
tongue, and reminded him of a couple more
things he wanted. They chatted like old
cobbers for two hours, the conversation being
interspersed with lubrications. That was as
far as Bill remembered. When he woke
up at the 10-mile gate, he found his pack-
horse alongside, loaded with a three-years’
supply of clothes, boots, hats and odds and
ends. “Seems to me,” he reflected, when
lie had spread the amazing collection on the
saltbush, “the only difference betAveen a
shoppin’ jamboree an’ gettin drunk at the
pub is that on the shoppin’ jamboree you get
more than you don’t want for your money.”
(Continued on page 21.)
THE BOUNDARY-RIDER’S NOTE.
To Casual Callers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Take notice, friend, for you may be
To-day a friend in need to me,
And save me from the crows,
Since pitfalls lurk by rock and tree,
As every bushman knows.
If no one’s here, at Lonesome Camp,
Don’t let its quiet your spirits damp,
But stop and have a snack;
And notice if my daily stamp
Is on the almanac.
From early morn I’m jogging round
The creeks and dams where bogs abound,
Or ’long some bound’ry track,
O’er stony hills and broken ground
But sundown brings me back.
A bloke, though tough of hide and bone,
Who rides dry miles and rides alone,
May easy break his neck;
Or in the desert’s grip lie prone,
A miserable wreck.
Note carefully about this hive
If all betokens I’m alive
The asliheap, bunk and bread;
And if at dusk I don’t arrive,
You’ll know I’m maimed or dead.
There’s always hope if you depart
For Yanda homestead quick and smart,
E’en if you have to tramp;
And tell them all that Jimmy Cart
Is missing from his camp.
N.S.W.
E.S. SORENSON.


DO
I MTH EH
\enior line
IE
/W
33
s**
X
\
r
\
Cr >•
£
=~r,v
/ /
Mi fly
Drive the Senior for even a short distance and you will be
impressed by its silken smoothness and quiet, deep-lunged
power.
Six-cylinder power for every need, in an engine of exceptional
silence and flexibility.
Power that translates itself into high speed, when needed —and
into sure-footed traction where mud, sand or hills handicap less
distinguished performers.
Wherever roads lead —and in places where there are no roads—
Senior power is over-abundant for any demand. *
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne .
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane — Townsville .
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney .
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide .
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth .


Cbe equitable Ofe
Jlssce. -
rw&
Of
Australasia 01
Head Office:
Parbury House. liable Street, Brisbane
Brand
N.S.W.: VID'i'ORIA:
84 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Transacts Probate, Life Endowment, Com-
bined Benefits (All Sickness ) Assurance.
{Vacancies for Producers with good records
FREDK. LEVY, Mg. Director.
X
/x.
\ r
'■ BS
7
x
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY
SHELCOTE
NEUTRAL BAY, SYDNEY.
Modern Private Hotel.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views,
Tennis Court, Swimming Bath,
Billiards.
Guests’ Own Laundry.
Excellent Cuisine,
MODERATE TARIFF.
’Phone X 1621.
Telegrams, etc.: “Shelcote,” Neutral Bay, Sydney.
“Toonooba”: The tanning of skins for use
as water-bags is becoming a lost art amongst
the Gulf tribes of Queensland. Before the
advent of canvas Birighi selected, according
to the capacity required, a kangaroo, wal-
laby, ’possum or kangaroo-rat, preferably one
whose skin was unbroken. The front paws
and tail were cut off close to the body.
High up the neck the skin was severed and
the' pelt drawn off unslit. Bloodwood or
“SAXPENCE SAVED.”
SANDY: “Why don’t you whitewash the inside of your fowlhouse, Donald?”
DONALD : “Hey, mon, it saves feed to leave it as it was. That way the jowls can pick
the grain oot o’ the wood.”
some otlier gum was used for tanning the
hide Finally, the skin was turned fur side
out, and all openings except that of the neck
were skewered with short pieces of stick or
bone, below which stout cords were wound to
prevent leakage. The hind legs, bound
together at their extremities, formed con-
venient shoulder slings, or, in the case of
the smaller animals, handles. The neck
opening was the mouth of the bag. With
these norloos, Binghis south-east of the
Barkly Tableland were able to negotiate
long dry stages during their annual walk-
about. ,
“Darbre” : We were out of matches except
for a chip from the head of a waxie found
in my “bumper” pocket. “Good enough, my
mate said. He plucked the seed-down from
some thistles, added some dry grass and
gum-leaves, placed the lot over a stone''with
the waxie chip on top of it, and struck the
morsel of match-head with a knife. While
the billy boiled I asked if he’d ever done
the trick before. “No,” he said, but. when
a kid I once set fire to an eiderdown quilt
by using match-heads for caps in a toy
“Sea Nomad”: Mainlanders and Torres
Strait islanders tell wonderful tales of the
sucking fish which helps them to catch turtle.
The fish, they say, warns them when a
cyclone is brewing, and gives them a nod
when a submerged reef lies in the fairway.
It is supposed to know when things are not
ship-shape and to come aboard and rebuke
the sailors. Occasionally the remora
attaches itself to other fish besides turtle-
a shark even. When such is the case the
men aboard can tell instantly by feeling the
fin vibrations along the line. The remora
find difficulty in adhering to a dugong on
account of the very smooth and sometimes
oily hide. ■ The suction-power of the fish is
extraordinary, the hold being practically
indctachable, They are quite easy to cap-
ture, as often a number of them adhere to
the sides of a lugger as she is sailing. The
natives, who still use the fish, always have
a couple in the bottom of their canoes under
wet leaves. The Chinese have fished with
remora for centuries, but the Torres Strait
islanders swear that a god first explained to
them their use.
* * * *
“B-Gar” : Eight miles out from Proserpine
(N.Q.) I recently overtook two girls riding
their horses behind a mob of turkeys.
They informed me that every afternoon
they went to the Six-mile, mustered then-
mob and started for the farm With them.
“You know,” one of them said, “we get £2
for gobblers and £1 for hens, so it pays to
look after them.”
* * * ***
“Biro” : The spider which “Sniper” identi-
fies (B. 19/l/;’28) has relatives in N.S.W.
They favor thickly-timbered country where
beetles are numerous. An immense circle
is strung between adjacent trees, in the
centre of winch sits a compactly-bodied
spider as large as a mouse. Such spiders
were once common on the Southern J abie-
land, but in odd seasons only. Out back a
very similar kind is known as ‘ the w'anta-
gong,” but I do not think the latter spins
a cartwheel web. Those I saw about Coon-
amble lived in pine scrubs and frequented
pine-built houses after the fashion ot the
tarantula.
NOT FITTY ’T ALL.
“Go’st and get cross-cut saw, boay—I’ve measured this tember and measured un,
an’ every time if wan end av it baint too long, 'tother is."
“Biro”: “Euroko” need not doubt “Sam-
uel’s” statement that lie saw a goanna suc-
cumb to snakebite (B. 25/l/’2B). A snake
that chances to strike within the mouth of a
go. is sure of a kill if his poison has not
been wasted by futilely striking the hard
skin beforehand. Goannas are not immune
to snakebite; neither are other snakes, even
of the same species.
* * * . *
“Pigcat”: On the old coach from
Cloncurry (Q.) to TJrandangie,
about 20 miles this side of the
’Dangie, is the roaring well.
In the days when we used to
travel by coach in misery the
driver always pulled up there to
show the passengers this wonder
of the country. Sometimes the
well wasn’t roaring; at other
times it would be. One of its
peculiarities when in action was
to reject objects offered to it.
For instance, if a man dropped
his hat down it might fall 10 or
20 feet; then the roarer would
get it and waft it back to the
surface though not always.
Once a commercial traveller
took matters out of the driver’s
hands, and proceeded to explain
the mystery and wonder of the
well. He dropped his handker-
chief down. The well threw it
back. He flung down tufts of
grass and the well rejected them.
Then he took his hat and let
it go. The well lifted it almost
to its mouth, changed its mind,
and took that hat to the bottom
for all time.
:!: * *
“Ray Gram”: A go. vHiich includes snake
in its bill of fare has taken up resi-
dence on a farm a few miles outside Dulacea
(W.Q.). The owner spotted the creature
after it had killed a brown snake about, three
feet long. On seeing him approach the go.
moved away; but when the farmer turned the
crawler over with a stick, go. was back like a
flash and took his prey from practically under
the man’s feet. The farmer has since conic
across the same go. in the act of swallowing
a green snake.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: The yarn spun by “Sea
Nomad” (B. 8/2,/’2B) calls to mind an
eccentric old hatter who lived in the
Wliipstick scrub, near Bendigo, in the early
’eighties. He bred cats for their pelts, which,
tanned and worked up into buggy-rugs,
realised sufficient to keep him in tucker,
tobacco and an occasional bottle of square-
face. The carcases, stewed, fried, or fricassed,
appeared regularly on his table, varied on
occasion by a dish of yabbies from an
adjacent dam. In Bolivia and parts of
Peru, when the dweller on the Great Table-
land tires of roast or boiled goat, burro or
llama meat he reaches for the nearest cat,
knocks it on the head and pops the carcase
into a casserole with salted water, garlic
and a bunch of herbs. In about two hours
he turns out the aromatic though somewhat
pungent native delicacy known as cazuela
dc gato.” . *
“E.S.”: Corncob was in debt, and hadn’t
a shilling to bless himself with, as his wife
said; and it was a dry, unpromising season.
So when he put a man on to do the plough-
ing she thought he was mad. But Mr. Corn-
cob got some traps from the store and took
the boys away with him to the rabbit war-
rens. At the end of the first fortnight he
showed a profit of f 14, and when _ the rain
came he was clear of debt and liis ground
ready for cropping. But he made one mis-
calculation. The boys had discovered the
way to independence and refused to go back
to the old job. “What makes me laugh,
said the eldest, “is the bloke dom the
ploughin’ when he could ’ave been trappin.
* * * *
“A. 0.”: If “Wang” (B. 8/2/’2S) is look-
ing for specimens of the swagman he should
travel along the South Coast road of N.S.W.
Hard cases some of them, but the majority
seem to be genuine out-of-works who are
willing to do a bit for their tucker or
tobacco. No, Matilda is not dying out in
that district; in fact, the police, who should
know, say that swagmen are on the increase.
* * * *
“Coot” : In an old Australian book I re-
cently came across the term “cobbler’s pegs
applied to a kind of weed. Aliy of the
council know what is referred to?
* * * *
“John Gilpin”: How far can a dog smell
its owners? We had a black cocker spaniel
to stay with us for the second year while ins
master and mistress went for their annual
holiday. He returned'to us happily, seem
ing to understand that they were going away,
and ran about our grounds without trying
to go home. One night lie slipped out and
disappeared. In the morning I rang up to
see if the owners were back. They replied
that they had returned the previous night.
On comparing times we found they had come
home about the hour the dog ran away from
us. Our houses are fully a mile apart.
* * * *
“F.P.J.”: How is this for pluck? Two
youths, aged 13 and 14 years respectively,
were riding across country at Rockhampton
(Q.). After passing through some water
along the road the younger of the two felt
an uncomfortable tightening around his body.
To his horror he found he was in the grip
of a venomous snake measuring, on examina-
tion later, five feet. The lad carefully dis-
mounted from liis machine and stood per-
fectly still while his friend raced for the
assistance of a man living near by. Watch-
ing his opportunity, the man knocked the
snake on to the ground, where it was immedi-
ately killed. The boys trundled along on
their bikes none the worse for the adven-
ture.
GIVE ME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Give me the real hard-doer; the bloke with
a bit of guts,
The bloke who can still be smiling long after
the boozer shuts,
Who don’t give a dam’ for trouble and don’t
make a god of pelf—
Give me the kind of feller I’d like to be like
myself.
To Hell with the long-faced whiners! Those
are the kind I hate.
I wouldn’t have one no matter how hard I
was stuck for a mate.
I’ve got no time for the suoozer who comes
to you with a moan
Whenever he drops his bundle —like I when
I dvop my own.
Give me the dinkum trier, the bloke who can
take a knock
The same as lie takes a turn-up, and don’t
go doing his block.
Give me the bloke who sticks to a cobber
and sees him through ;
Not the bloke who will make excuses —the
same as I’ve known me do.
Give me the honest battler; the bloke that
you know will stick
Till the end of things and after is the sort
that a man should pick.
To the mug, the skite and the liar, to the
nark and the hypocrite
A feller can always jerry—if lie’s studied
himself a bit.
Give me the real liard-doer, give me the
decent chap
Who plays the game straightforward and
nothing under the lap.
To Hell with the long-faced whiners; that
breed is no use to me.
The bloke I want for a cobber is the bloke
like I’d like to be.
w.A.
SOCAR WALTRES.


«*"**">
»
WWW
Money
Makes
the
Skins
worth getting. It’s not
what they are, but
what they realise
which chiefly concerns
you. Top values are
what you want. See
that you get them. For highest possible prices—
consign Rabbit, Fox and all other Skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Salesmen,
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
LIFE ASSURANCE IS A
DUTY THAT CANNOT WAIT
Most men intend to protect their dependents with Lite
Assurance, but many delay until too late, or ct best, until
their premiums have become needlessly high. It you too,
are in their position, accept this duty now and act upon it.
There is a P. 6c C. policy to meet your case —a policy
that gives you the benefits ot co-operative assurance and
one that provides absolute security.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Gen. Man.: H. Fell
PRODUCERS W CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD..
114 - ITO CASTLEREAqH ST. SYDNEY
PEAPES
—jor men AND their sons.
To shop at Peapes is to real-
ise how well it pays to buy
the best. Stocking only the
highest qualities, Peapes
maintain a moderate price,
because they have not to
make provision for reduc-
tions during the year.
The House of Peapes is built
on quality. Since lobb
Peapes have stood behind all
the goods they sell.
George Street
(Opp. Hunter Street),
Sydney.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
WHAT IS THE BEST FAT LAMB?
“Azac” : In view of a report forwarded by
the Trade Commissioner in London regarding
the quality of fat lambs exported from
Suth Aus., N. S. Wales’s policy in the
matter of fat-lamb raising needs reviewing.
As the result of some cross-breeding ex-
periments at Wagga Experimental Farm
eight or ten years ago, the conclusion was
arrived at that the pure-bred Dorset Horn
ram mated with the Border Leicester x
merino ewe gave the best fat lamb for
export. Those findings have been closely
followed by N.S.W. fat-lamb raisers ever
since. But this is what the London report
now says about the Dorset Horn lamb:
“This breed [the Dorset Horn] is not looked
on with favor in this country [Eng.], being
considered a very coarse eating lamb, though
full of flesh.” Further, it is reported that
the London meat experts think it advisable
to keep to the Southdown cross (Southdown
x Border Leicester-merino), although, in
their opinion, any of the following crosses
would be excellent lambs for the U.lv. trade
(Note that the cross recommended to N.S.W.
sheepmen, Dorset Horn x Border Leicester-
merino, is not given a place at all) :
Southdown x Border Leicester-merino.
Southdown X English Leicester-merino.
Southdown x Lincoln-merino.
Southdown x Romney Marsh-merino.
Southdown x merino.
Dorset Horn x Romney Marsh-merino.
Dorset Horn x English Leicester-merino.
Shropshire x Romney Marsh-merino.
Another argument against the Dorset Horn x
Border Leicester-merino cross lamb is that
the South Aus. experiments (the most exten-
sive ever carried out in Australia) have
demonstrated that it is not the best lamb
for the overseas trade. The Southdown x
Border Leicester-merino lamb—the cross
recommended in the Trade Commissioner’s
report —came out on top in these experi-
ments.
Altogether 20 different crosses were tried
in South Aus., pure-bred rams of the
Shropshire, Southdown, Border Leicester,
Dorset Horn, Romney Marsh, Lincoln and
English Leicester breeds being mated with
pure merino ewes and cross-bred merino
ewes. The experiments so far have shown
that the most profitable is the Southdown x
Border Leicester-merino, the returns being
nearly £4 per 100 ewes above the Dorset
Horn x Border Leicester-merino lamb. The
Border Leicester x merino and the South-
down x Romney Marsh-merino lambs also
showed up well, yielding within £5 per 100
ewes of the breed that topped the returns,
and the last mentioned breed of these two
is one that is favored on the English market.
One point both the South Aus. and N. S.
Wales experiments established beyond doubt
—of the half-bred ewe flocks used in the
production of fat lambs, the Border Leicester
x merino cross is without an equal. What
the two States cannot agree upon is whether
the Southdown or Dorset Horn ram is the
best to use. In the breeding of lambs for
the local trade the Dorset Horn x Border
Leicester-merino crosses returned about £1
per 100 ewes more than the Southdown
cross.
So much for the superiority of half-bred
and quarter-bred merino lambs sired by
British rams; but, seeing that for some
years to come the bulk of the lambs exported
from this country will be bred from pure
merino ewes, the question of greatest import-
ance to our lamb-breeding industry is the
relative merits of the different rams to mate
with the pure merino ewe. So far as the
South Aus. experiments are a guide, the pure
merino ewe when mated with Border Leices-
ter, English Leicester and Lincoln rams
proved highly remunerative, hnd right
throughout the experiments better results
were secured by mating pure merino ewes
with these long-woolled rams than with Dor-
set Horn, Shropshire or Southdown rams.
The extra value of the wool clip from the
pure merino ewes is a big factor in keeping
the profits from this line of breeding well up.
POINTS ABOUT LUCERNE.
“Iv.McG.”: For the small farmer who
hand-feeds his herd lucerne stands out as
the king of all fodder crops. Light soils
may grow it well for three or four years,
but on good black-soil flats excellent cuttings
are produced for 10 and 12 years. Scari-
fying or renovating each year, before the
spring rains are due, using a top-dressing
of lcwt. of super, to the acre, will keep the
fields free from grass and stimulate a vigor-
ous growth.
The rule of cutting when the crowns begin
to shoot is usually a safe one to follow, but
when dry spells delay the sprouts, cuttings
should be made when the bottom leaves are
turning yellow and growth is at a standstill.
Never graze or mow lucerne in a young and
sappy stage, for nothing tends more to
weaken the plant’s vitality and run the
paddock into grass.
And never burn your hay, no matter how
discolored by rain it may bo, for the worst
of lucerne when stacked away for a few
months will turn out to be a very palatable
feed. In drought time old rubbishy fodder,
useful as a fill-up only, will be eaten readily
by cattle when it is chaffed up with a sprink-
ling of lucerne. The best of all milk-pro-
ducing chaffs is a mixture of corn, with the
milk in the grain just setting, and an equal
quantity of prime dry lucerne.
HOW TO THATCH A HAYSTACK.
“Pick” : Grass cut for this purpose should
be tied in bundles with the butts level. To
commence thatching, drive a long peg into the
stack at a distance from the eaves two-
thirds the average length of the thatch. This
and subsequent pegs should be driven with
a slant that will ensure the rain dripping
from the head downwards instead of follow-
ing the peg and soaking into the stack.
Attach to the peg a length of binder twine
sufficient to encircle the stack; then lay a
yard width of closely pressed thatch two
inches deep with butts upward, and lialf-
hitch the twine, pulled tightly, to a second
peg driven parallel to the first. Proceed
similarly until the lower tier of thatch has
been placed and securely tied. If the bind-
ing anywhere appears loose, twitch with
extra pegs until firm. Next lay a second
tier overlapping half of that below’, then a
third, and so on to the summit. To finish
tie a bundle of the longest grass well twisted
at the head and spread it at the butt to
surmount the peak like a hat. To make the
stack look well run round the bottom edge
with a pair of shears.
VARIETIES OP OATS AND BARLEY.
The following are the latest departmental
recommendations as to the varieties of oats
best suited to various portions of N; S.
Wales
Oats. —North Coast: Algerian (for graz-
ing), Sunrise, Mulga. South Coast: Alge-
rian, Guyra, Sunrise, Mulga, Myall. Central
Tableland: Algerian, Guyra, Lachlan,
Mulga. Northern Tableland: Reid, White
Tartarian, Algerian, Guyra. Southern Table-
land : Algerian, Guyra, Sunrise, Mulga,
Myall. Monaro: White Tartarian, Algerian,
Mulga. South-western Slopes and Riverina:
Algerian, Lachlan. Sunrise, Belar, Mulga.
Central-western Slopes: Algerian, Lachlan,
Guyra, Mulga. North-western Slopes: Alge-
rian, Guyra, Sunrise, Mulga. Under irriga-
tion : Algerian, Guyra, Sunrise, Mulga.
Western Plains; Sunrise, Mulga, Buddah.
Barley.— Two-row type (commonly called
“malting barleys”) .—Pryor. Six-row type
(commonly called “feed barleys”).—Skin-
less for early winter green feed. Cape and
Trabut for green fodder, and grain for stock
in the cooler districts.
MANURING THE WHEAT CROP.
“Hugh L. Gordon” : The manuring of the
wheat crop is a subject to which the farmer
cannot give too much consideration. In
recent years, thanks to Departments of
Agriculture, heavier manuring has been the
rule. But this should not be taken to
mean that the dressing of super, can be
indiscriminately increased. Several factors
must be taken into consideration. Firstly,
the newer the land the less super, is needed.
On new mallee land about 301 b. per acre
will usually be found to be the most profit-
able, wlierea,s on old land up to may
be' used. Secondly, good fallow will make
better use of a heavy dressing than poor
fallow. This fact is overlooked by many
farmers, who hope to make up for not work-
ing their fallow by a heavy application of
super. No amount of super, can replace
working at the right time. Another point to
be considered is the residual effect. A fair
proportion of wheat is grown on land which
produces only one crop in every four or five
years. During the remainder of the time
the land is used for grazing. Many farmers
manure their crops heavily (up to 2scwt. per
acre) in the belief that if the crop does not
benefit by the heavy dressing, the grass will.
This is doubtful and would be difficult to
prove. A wiser plan would be to apply to the
wheat crop that amount which experience
and a close study of the Department of
Agriculture's plots leads one to believe to be
the most profitable, and to topdress the
stubble if considered necessary.
HORSE MANGE.
' “B. Goode”: The humid season on the
N.S.W. North Coast lias caused a heavy
crop of mange (itch) in the horses up there,
and anyone on the train from Lismore
towards the Tweed can see dozens of prads
trying which will stand the most rubbing—
the butt of their tails or a two-rail fence.
Here is the prescription and treatment that
will clear up the old nag for certain in a
week or less. Get one bucket of warm to
hot water, a piece of carbolic soap, and a
good hard brush (the scrubbing-brush is just
the thing). Scrub the affected parts, with
and against the hair. Get one beer bottle
almost filled with kerosene in which lias
been well mixed one heaped teaspoonful of
crysoplumic acid. Shake the bottle well
and apply to affected parts. Under no
circumstances should the horse be made fast
when he is suffering from mange. Just let
him wander. A few hours after the treat-
ment suggested he will lose the idea that
it is up to him to rub down every fence lie
sees, and in a few weeks he will* be showing
good glossy hair where previously he had
bare sores. The treatment runs to some
sixpence per head. It’s worth a tenner to
any horse owner.
STRANGLES.
“Silky”: “Villers-Brett’s” handling of
strangles is doubtful. A far better if a little
more complicated treatment of this infecti-
ous disease is to first concentrate attention
on the abscess which appears behind the
pharynx. Bring the swelling to a head with
bread or bran poultices or a blister. When
it comes to a head lance it with a clean
knife which has been sterilised —a flame will
do this. Take care to give the wound good
drainage and wash it out with an antiseptic
twice a day. While bringing the abscess
to a head give the animal good quality and
appetising food and put loz. hyposulphide
of soda or lgrm. of potassium iodide in the
drinking water per day. After lancing the
abscess the temperature should quickly drop
to normal and recovery be rapid.
COUNTING SHEEP.
“J.D.C.”: “Pick’s” method of counting
sheep (B. 8/2/’2B) sounds all right but
is not practicable. It would be quite im-
possible to keep a mob of wild wethers run-
ning while a lunatic stood in a Oft. gateway
waving his arms. And if they rushed, no
man could . steady them and keep _ count,
much less stay on his feet; and losing his
feet in a gateway under a mob of rushing
wethers is an experience no man would care
to repeat.
To get an accurate count, the man without
much practice at the game will find the fol-
lowing about the easiest method. If a pad-
dock count, first fix the gate; if a double
gate lift one off its hinges, tie a rail across
from post to post, drive a solid stake)
securely about the required width and tie the
gate firmly top and bottom. A saddle-strap
or stirrup leather is handy for this, is
always available and easily replaced. A
space of 30 inches will be found wide enough
for average-sized shorn or lialf-woolled sheep,
and about six inches wider for woollies.
When satisfied that the gate is secure, get
well back on the windy side to avoid the
dust, and let the sheep draw quietly through.
Count three sheep as one, six as two, nine as
three, and so on up to 33. This makes
99, and the odd one goes while calling the
hundred. It is easier to count while stand-
ing back about 20 yards, but it is well to
work up fairly close in case of a jam or a
sheep falling in the gateway.
I have counted 4000 and 5000 at a time
through a paddock gate in this manner with
only the assistance of a couple of decent
dogs. When running fast in an even stream
sheep are much easier to count than when
coming in jerks, and the big idea is to use
a counting gate that won’t “give,” and to
keep them running regularly all the time. Of
course, after some practice, the novice can
get away from the “three-for-one” system,
and also use a wider gate, but the foregoing
is about the best method to get the hang
of the game—and an accurate tally.
THE PRICE OF RASPBERRIES.
Mr. E. S. Paul, managing director of
Schweppes, writes: “Veronal” (B. 5/l/’2B)
says that a crop of over seven tons of rasp-
berries “realised 2d. to 3d. per lb. delivered
at the local railway station.... Wholesale
prices are now ruling lower, but there should
still be a good profit in the berries.” If
there are any large growers in the Monaro
è
é


SSL » '
: 1
■ :
t:
■
■
i
■7
*
■
-
IS
Wm
m
i
■ ■
.
I 8
jff
m
■
■
B
*•■ '* v
l
:
■
1
•> - 1
■:
*
■ • ;
i : a
msfc.
-
■
11
BKaiBI
m
: m :
s,. "V
im
■
■
H
rara
iw; •!
■
m m
m
■*> *
Wm*3 2
■
■ ,’« v
nil
A
■ - "■
. V v . '
1
: a:
■
■
•• •.,
a
-,v .
m
m: &
■i
■
■1
1 &&" w, 4*J
.
■
IT'S f!NI >
.. . .5 • '?**, , ' ‘ 'W
M>„ **„ -'. ' TM?\ >'4‘ *'K
s
»<SS
its ini
RUBBER
I .we kaice
KJOLs^
■
Buy DUNLOP from your Garage!*, *.P , .- r
* * » T .
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD. ® * Jfc'J*pPj
■
Bni
'•&
I I
-
ALL STATES
AND N ~L
<«aIL JT*
mm
The charm of motoring
in out-of-way places
appeals to most motorists. The
pleasure of such touring depends
on the reliability of tyres used.
For this class of motoring
you can absolutely depend on
YRES
_ in fact, you can travel many
thousands of miles over rough
roads and tracks without a
thought of tyre trouble. It’s
their remarkable strength and
durability that enables Dunlop
to withstand the hardest of driv-
ing without a sign of cut or chip
in covers. For touring purposes
Dunlop Tyres have no equal
in fact, it’s a payable proposition
to always use them, for they
stand alone for value
and economical
service. J


9T n>J
• :j**i
i
greater
UDSON
Super-Siy'xl
V*/V. -•
3H
r
ss®
'■'N
»
V\
through a great new Companion Invention
to the Super-Six Principle
HUDSON excels
HUDSON itself
70 %
Australian Built
Under this combination of resources . American and
Australian industry has achieved manufacturing
economies that no other builder for the Australian
market shares.
Hudson 7-pass. Touring(Aus. Body) £465
Hudson 5-pass. Coach (Imp. Body) 499
Hudson Brougham (Imp. Body) . . 560
Hudson 7-pass. Sedan (Imp. Body) 650
Hudson 5-pass. Coach, 118 in.
wheelbase . 480
Hudson 5-pass. Sedan, 118 in.
wheelbase . 510
Prices at some points slightly higher.
This new companion invention adds a further step in efficiency
by actually converting hitherto wasted heat into useful power.
With the Super-Six Principle, which converts to useful power
energy that in other types is lost in vibration, the new Hudson
invention combines the highest efficiency in power, smoothness
and long motor life ever achieved within our knowledge.
Added Fuel Economy —Greater Power
Steam Engine Smoothness
In all previous types of car
motors a high percentage of
the power of the fuels is lost
in heat thrown away in the
exhaust and cooling waters.
The new Hudson motor gives
the snap and performance of
the high compression type
without sacrifice of flexibility
and smoothness.
Spark knock is positively pre-
vented. Regular petrol gives
the performance sought, in
other types, through the use of
special and costly fuels. The
cold motor starts with the
same snap you get from other
types in midsummer. You
don’t have to wait for or nurse
your motor while it warms up.
Oil dilution is prevented.
Greater power, speed and fuel
economy are obtained. Every
phase of performance is brilli-
antly better. These two Hud-
son inventions give a perform-
ance and reliability supremacy
that are immediately and con-
tinuously apparent whether
you drive your Hudson a city
block or a hundred thousand
miles. You need but a single
demonstration to give. you
such a conviction of superi-
ority as you never experienced
in any motor-car.
A New High-compression Anti-knock Motor
That Turns Waste Heat to Power,
Using Ordinary Petrol.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED.
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
WHATMQRE, McINTOSH MOTORS. LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and L.auncesion.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER,
11 so.


a
1
m
«
58
m
IMM
FOOT - EASE AND
MUSCLE FREEDOM
Pliancy of sole and upper
guarantees both to every wearer
of this top-grade Abbey Boot. It
fits the foot for length and width
being made in half sizes, each
available in three fittings, nar-
row, medium and wide.
It has an upper of the finest
calf or kid—actually selected
from the best leathers offering.
The sole, too, is flexible, while
of a toughness that ensures the
longest wear.
The boot is made for worka-
day use but it is a trim style,
easy-polishing and not too
heavy.
Order by Post.
Specify the width you need
and order, also, a supply of the
correct Abbey Polish (6d. per
tin) .
TAN WILLOW CALF - 57/6
BLACK GLACE KID - 57/6
BLACK BOX CALF - 52/6
Ash for a copy of the 40-page
catalogue in color,
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
Leo SYDNEY
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
What is a WIENEKE?
fhe WORLD'S BEST
LIFETIME SADDLE
as exhibited at the
BRITISH WEMBLEY
EXHIBITION.
This is the new style
GULF CHAMPION
a magnificent saddle
for station work.
Fitted up complete for
£l5/15/-
Write for my beautifully-illustrated
book of my life.
Post Free.
3)
WHY NOT
THE BEST?
JACK WIENEKE,
Champion Saddler,
371 George St., Sydney.
H*UPMANN & C 0$
HAVANA CIGARS
IN THE FOLLOWING SIZES
Half Corona, £3/15/- per 100.
Samples 9d. each.
Threequarter Corona, £4/15/-per 100.
Samples 1/- each.
Full Corona, £7/10/- per 100.
Samples 1/ 6 each.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
'f/7 y y' '''/-
V
RKS L TD
352 CEORCE S T SYDNEY
♦ AND BRANCHES ♦
WMV26.
I
mmm
I/onrton Offiee:
“Gresham House/’
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zino
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association £?£
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
?>l
He mixes with the
engine oil, wears away
the piston rings and
scores the cylinder walls!
Trap the Dust and Grit Fiend in
Zenith Air Cleaner! It simply fits
on the intake of your carburetter.
It means longer life for your engine
and smoother, better, faster running.
Reduce the amount of dirt entering
your engine and you reduce the
amount of carbon formed, and thus
avoid the expense of frequent
decarbonisation.
Send a postcard for full
particulars of the Zenith’s
latest achievement to —
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Syd-
ney ; Alexander Mair & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne;
Martin Wilson Bros., Ltd.,
Brisbane ; A. G. Healing and
Co. Pty., Ltd., Adelaide;
Harris Scarfe & Sandover,
Ltd., Perth.
TENim
AIR CLEANER
ZENITH CARBURETTER CO., LTD., 40, Newman Street, LONDON, W-l.
assure liim that, using a rod of wire, I can
pick a drift at any angle and also follow it
for miles.
If any readers are interested in finding
water, I will give them a demonstration any-
where in Vic. or N. S. Wales at my own
expense. I will welcome any test they can
put me to, such as taking me over where
they know there’s water or where bores have
failed. The Bulletin has my name and
address.
WILD RAB-BEE!
“K.H.”: In skinning use small blade of
knife and see that it’s sharp. Grasp rabbit by
ears ; cut cleanly through skin immediately
behind those members, then turn on back
and run knife inside hind legs from knee to
knee. Nick skin away from belly at crutch
to prevent tearing out of entrails; and the
rest is handwork, the initial head-cut allow-
ing the skin to peel easily from the toughest
buck. With practice you will soon skin 100
to the hour.
To keep skins green until there is leisure
to stretch them, turn fur side out, pick out
the big ones, and, having stuffed 10 or 12
others into each of them, stow in a bag
in a cool place. By this method 20 or 30
wire stretchers will see you through the
biggest catch.
PADDOCK SHEARING.
“FY7”: Something unusual in the story
of Queensland shearing was undertaken with
success during the recent big drought. The
manager of a S.-W. Queensland station
found himself with some 00,000 weak sheep
to shear, while there was no feed of any
sort near the shed, and hand-feeding was
out of the question. There were several
fairly well grassed and watered areas on
the run among which the sheep were
divided. Three bough sheds were put up
near to these, and laid down with a ruberoid
floor to minimise dust and dirt. Only three
men were engaged for the work, which
lasted from June 30 to December 3, 1927,
the men living in tents close to the sheds.
The length of time taken was a drawback,
the last few runs carrying as much as 18
months’ wool, but the total cost worked out
at very little more than the normal, while
the loss of sheep that would have followed
on any attempt to travel them in from out-
side paddocks to the shed was largely
avoided. It is an interesting feat, and,
though it has been done on a small scale at
times, I never heard of a task of such
magnitude being successfully tackled before.
MALFORMED LAMBS.
“Tarboy”: The malformation of lambs,
mentioned by “Te Hipi” (B. 5/l/’2B), is due
to a lack of phosphates in the lick given the
ewes. Sterilised bone-meal or finely-ground
Nauru phosphate added to a lick will over-
come the whole trouble. Salt and Nauru
phosphate in equal parts, or three parts of
salt to one of bone-meal and one of Nauru
phosphate, will do the trick.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Homo”: Although stimulants such as
cayenne pepper and mustard sometimes
cause fowls to lay soft-shelled eggs (on
account of the birds being forced to pro-
duce more material than they have lime to
cover), they are valuable when it is not
intended to keep the birds longer than two
seasons. Those treated to a little mustard
(a teaspoonful between 12 of them. in the
morning mash) will lay better in cool
weather. In severe weather a very little
cayenne will serve the purpose.
“M.A.M.”: For sand in horses, two
drenches —(1) a pint of fresh milk with lib.
of honey; (2) lib. of flour in lgal. of water.
And for worms in horses, 2oz. of lime
sprinkled on feed two mornings consecu-
tively.
“Nota Bene”: If pigs are fed on maize
the fat will show a yellowish tinge. About
a fortnight before killing, every day feed
each pig a double handful of oatmeal (oat-
meal, not crushed oats), moistened with
water and kneaded into a ball. This makes
the fat firm and white.
“Country Ped” : The best idea for curing
broodiness in fowls that I have seen is in
use at the Government Research Farm at
Werribee (Vic.). The simple apparatus
consists of a cylindrical cage, large enough
for one hen, made of fine mesh (half-inch)
wire-netting, with a lid of the same material.
As soon as a hen is found to be broody she
is placed in this cage, which is swmng from
the roof of the peri. The slightest move-
ment of the occupant keeps the cage swing-
ing, and so generates air movements all
round her. Within 24 to 36 hours she is
back at her man-devised job of laying 250
or so eggs per annum.
“Momokeni”: Many fowls in an orchard
are a nuisance, and nothing which can be
said for the practice will outweigh the
damage they do to the trees, by perching and
breaking down the branches, and picking off
both leaf and fruit buds. Exposure of the
tree roots when they make the holes for
their dust baths is also considerable.
“RXB”: I sold a berry-farm five years
ago, as a net return of £6O from five acres
did not suit me. The man -who bought me
out also bought a cookery-book and some
stewpans, and turns the crop into jams and
jellies. Put up in glass containers with a
pretty label, he readily sells the product at
much above the price of the tinned stuff, and
he runs the best car in the district. It is
paid for, too.
“2 Chews”: Jerusalem artichokes (B.
8/12/’27), though good feed for pigs, are
not a balanced ration. An economical way
of providing grain and fibre is to plant
maize between the rows when the artichokes
are about 18 inches high. The hogs will
clean up stalks and all. But don’t let them
on the artichokes too long, or they will clean
them right out.
“L.R.W.”: Some time ago a “Land” cor-
respondent was explaining the advantage of
using 22 per cent, water-soluble phosphate
as against 17 per cent., and stated that up
to 30 per cent, was used in England. In
South Aus. we use a high-grade super., of
which 45 per cent, to 48 per cent, is water
soluble, and the manufacturers can now turn
it out as free running as the practically
out-of-date 36 per cent, w.s.p. The saving
in freight is considerable.
“L.H.H.”: The statement by “W.P.D.”
(B. 25/l/’2B) that there is no saltbush left
in the s.-w. of Q. is nonsense. There are thou-
sands of square miles of it, notwithstanding
that till the middle of February there had
been no rain west of Thargomindah since
1926. There are at present about 250,000
acres of splendid saltbush and Mitchell coun-
try available as preferential leases (three
blocks) between the Wilson and the Cooper.
Needless to say, water is scarce and dogs are
numerous.
“Ken” : Many forms of roup in fowls can
be cured by simple treatment, such as put-
ting a few crystals of permanganate of pot-
ash or a few drops of kerosene in the drink-
ing water. Sometimes the feeding of raw
onions has a beneficial effect.
“Eureka”: A simple method of stopping
the holes in the floors and walls of barns,
etc., is to soak old newspapers in a strong
solution of soda and hot water and then
squeeze it to a pulp. This will set like cement,
and nothing less than gunpowder will shift
it. Hats and mice will not eat it either.
“ Jerso”: Planting water, pie and rock
melons within coo-ee of one another, in the
same month, is a mistake that can only end
in each lot maturing untrue to label. The
busy bee and the gentle summer zephyrs com-
bine in disturbing the pollen considerably,
and but few vines, if any, escape inoculation.
“2 Chews”: There is nothing whatever
about a billygoat that prevents a cow from
aborting. But Billy has his use in the
matter, nevertheless. Abortion in cows is
very infectious. When a cow has aborted in
a paddock it is usual for other cows to hang
about her. With Billy loose in the paddock
he is to be found with either the cow or
any discharge from her, round about which
he makes water freely. The smell of this
and of Billy himself keeps the herd away.
“Bon Jour” : Don’t break in young heifers
by brute force, dragging them in by a rope
around the horns and tying them up with
legropes. Run them into the bail-yard every
now and then, leave the doors open and let
them find their way out themselves. After
they have found their way out in this manner
a few times, close the doors on them and then
let them out immediately and quietly. After
this has been done a few times they will
come in and wait to be let out. This is
done, of course, months before they calve,
so that when they do calve they will walk
quietly in without any trouble.
“Eureka” : To prevent fencing posts from
splitting put a clod of dirt on the top of
each post immediately it is erected. A clod
held together by grass roots is the best, and
if moistened when first put on the earth will
remain on the post for years. The life of
the fence will be considerably increased. As
white-ants prefer to enter wood from the
ends, this prevents them from getting in at
the top.
“Nota Bene” : To prevent a cow sucking
herself, put a halter on, and up near the
jaws tie securely one end of a strong stick —
a broomstick will do. Put the stick through
her forelegs and attach end to a surcingle
round the body. This will not interfere with
her feeding or lying down.
“Yufu” : A heifer that calves before she i 3
three doesn’t get a chance to develop into a
good cow. When a heifer is rising three—
when her horns are half peeled—is ample
time to put her to a bull, though there are
some farmers who hold that Jerseys can be
brought in earlier.
“Abbotsford”: The quickest way to get
the hair off a slaughtered pig is to soak him
for 10 minutes in a mixture of two-to-one
of boiling and cold water respectively; then
lift him out and scrub him down with half
a brick or a flat piece of sandstone.
“Yufu” : Never force a heifer into the bail
for her first milking. Tether her calf at the
head of the bail, and coax her in. Let her
fondle the calf while you’re milking. You
may not get any milk the first time, but you
have accustomed her to the bail.
“B-Gar”: Always keep a small stock of
slaked lime and sulphur in the store-room.
All stock should have a dash of lime in their
drinking water, and sulphur is one of the
best fumigators. For mange, itch and other
skin diseases in animals, put a handful of
lime and one of sulphur into a kerosene-tin
of water, boil and allow to simmer for four
hours, and, when cold, bottle. The lotion
applied a few times is a certain remedy.
“Choker”: To cure hoven or bloat in
cattle or calves that have been grazing on
lucerne and red clover, take a 4ft. length of
good fin. garden hose, open the cow’s mouth
and pull the tongue out to one side. Then
put the end of the hose down her throat,
and as soon as it enters the stomach the
trouble will come away with a rush. This
is preferable to making an incision, as no
wound is left for the flies to irritate.
“Choker”: A useful drenching funnel for
pigs can be made from a cow’s horn. Select
one of suitable shape and saw off the tip
about an inch back; a small hole will then
show. The small end can be put in a pig’s
mouth without fear of it being crushed, and
the dose can be poured in the large end. By
rubbing the throat the dose is compulsorily
swallowed.
“Y. A. Long”: Here is a remedy for the
cow with milk fever. All that is necessary
is a bicycle pump and the inside part of a
Wood’s bicycle-tyre valve. Dip the valve
in. vaseline, insert in the teat and pump in
sufficient air to make the udder tight. Mas-
sage the udder for three or four minutes and
then pump full again. In two hours the
cow will be feeding and by the following
day she will be O.lv.
“H. J.M.”: I nominate a six-year-old Short-
horn cow owned by D. Ross, of Rapanui
(M.L.). as the most productive in Austral-
asia. In three calvings she has had two
sets of triplets and one set of twins.
“The Welkin”: Like the butcher’s sausage,
the manure heap is enshrouded in too much
mystery. Isn’t it just as well to know
for sure what manure is being used? I
believe the compost heaps are responsible for
most of the agricultural maladies and epi-
demics which infi'.ct crops to-day.


Unotker reason why
you will like
J ARDATH
J
W s 1
JSsSSsSs^
FLAVOUR, the finest production
of 30 years manufacturing
experience
There are twenty
reasons in every
packet
[>\\
A
v
10
D
9
OVAL
VIRGINIA
SMOKE-OH!
Where there’s a will, there’s a fray.
Many a child has to lament that its
mother went so far, and no father.
❖ ❖
An urgent telegram written by a Scots-
man : “Jockmotherdyingcomehomeoncellarry.”
* *
The fact that
250,000 Euchar-
ists are meeting
in Sydney this
year will pro-
bably lessen the
chances of find-
ing any nap in
that city.
MOST DISAPPOINTING.
ENRAGED HUSBAND: “Do you mean to sit there and tell me that
you let him kiss you, woman?”
THE WIFE: “Let him! Why, I had to help him.”
“The father of four sets of twins at
Omaha (U.5.A.),” says a cable, “is a railway
carpenter who works at night.” Is this
intended as an argument in favor of day-
work?
“Income-tax collectors sometimes go too
far,” says a newspaper writer. Alas, how
untrue!
* *
What with the unemployed and numerous
labor troubles threatening it looks as if
1928 is going to be a very doleful year in
England.
* *
The Chatty One: “I saw Flossie the other
day. She was looking very fine.”
The Catty One: “Yes, I’d heard she’d got
thinner.”
A young man in America, a cable states,
met, wooed, won and married a girl in four
hours. She couldn’t have been a very hard
trier.
“Young man,” said the haughty magistrate,
“ You’ve married fifteen wives, you lout!
The punishment must fit the crime —
Constable, let the prisoner out.”
Our ideas are adjusting themselves. Said
Binks, who always has a story about some
new conquest: “I met a young flapper the
other day—at least, not
exactly young, but com-
paratively so. She might
have been forty—forty-
five at the outside.
* *
“H.H.” : He was show-
ing so much restlessness
that I asked him what
the trouble was. “Me
wife is going for a di-
vorce this morning,” he
said, “and I want to get
up there and plead
‘Guilty,’ in case of acci-
dents.”
* *
According to the S. M.
Herald, there is growing
f e e 1 i n-g among school-
children that tlie slogan
of “Safety first” means
“Your own safety first—-
and be blowed to anybody
else.” This is the first
time we have heard motorists referred to as
“school-children.”
After a storm at Grenfell (N.S.W.) a
number of prawns were found in the street.
Not that there’s anything uncommon in that,
after a wet night.
* *
“Of what should we make our summer
dresses?” asks a fashion writer. We would
suggest they be made of something reason-
ably heavy—say mist.
This hot weather nobody objects to meet-
ing a man who takes him for a mug.
* *
The new title of the Prince of Wales —-
“Master of the Fishing Fleet” —certainly
has an element of truth in it. Still, there
are some who think the “Fishing” might
have been deleted.
❖ *
In some parts of Siam both parties to a
lawsuit are made to sit under water, and
the one that sits the longest wins. In Aus-
tralia the one that lies the longest wins.
* *
After Mac had done in his money at the
tin hares he w r as
grief-stricken for a
time. Disconsolate,
he watched the
sleek hound he had
backed being fond-
led by its owner.
He headed for the
gates. “Tin lieers,”
he muttered. “A
mon should ha’
known better.”
Then his face
brightened a little.
“Ah, weel,” he said,
“it might ha’ bin
wurse. I might ha’
backed the crea-
ture w T i’ a good
saxpence.”
*
A women’s secret
society has been
formed in New
York. With the
idea, we suppose,
of keeping their secrets in circulation.
According to a paper, 31b. of tea will
purchase six wives in India. It seems a
lot of tea.
*
N.S.W. laundries announce an increase of
10 per cent, on charges for doing up collars.
A result, no doubt, of the recent increase
in the price of grindstones.
An aviator states that to be a successful
parachutist One must be a teetotaller. We’d
have thought one must have to be rather
fond of a drop.
* *
“Women,” says a fashion writer, “are
more patient than men.” They do seem to
have much more to bare.
* ❖
A recently-arrived Englishman said that
he came to Australia because he found that
in Britain his “progress up the ladder was
blocked.” So he came to another clime.
The assertion that gentlemen prefer blondes
has made many women change color.
A newspaper asks its readers who was it
said that men were vainer than women.
We don’t know, but lie ought to make a
good fisherman.
* *
A paperhanger’s job, mayhap,
Is one that ought to please;
When days are hot, the lucky chap
At least can do a frieze.
In the olden days it used only to be the
wife, but now no man can make any money
without the State taxing him over it.
SUCH A RELIEF.
HUSBAND: “ You make me sad. Your dress
is so short it’s the talk of the neighbor-
hood.”
WIFE: “How beautiful! I was afraid it
wasn’t going to be a success!”
One of the cruellest men who ever lived
was the one who saw a fly drop into a glass
of whisky. He pulled it out.
* *
CASUAL CLASSICS.
Non fit: A ready-made suit.
Ex cathedra: A retired bishop.
Religio loco: Mad parson.
Inter anna: Cuddling.
Piece de resistance: An obstinate girl.
Non liquet: He doesn’t booze.
* *
Most of these aspiring artists make an
editor wish he could draw—a revolver.
* *
A feminist states pathetically that there
are only 300 women directors of limited
companies in Britain. We knew there had
been some falling off, but we had not thought
the marriage position was as bad as all that.
When Jack and Jill
Fell down the hill
And lost that pail of water,
Each rubbed a head
And what they said,
They really shouldn’t oughter!
Ford has spent £400.000 in advertising
his new car. The old ones are also making
a great noise in the world.
❖ *
According to a cable, there is now an
aeroplane in England which can fire a
cannon. We learn that feverish efforts are
now being made to invent something that
will fire a bishop.
* *
PAT’S DOG.
The Priest: “I believe your dog died,
Pat?”
Pat: “He did. Father.”
Priest: “How did that occur?”
Pat: “He wag not a cur—he was a
thoroughbred.”
Priest: I mean to say, how did he
die?”
Pat: “He died on his back, your Rivcr-
ence.”
Priest: “No, no! I mean to say, what did
he die of?”
Pat: “He died of a Tuesday.”
Priest: “But how did he come to meet his
death ?”
Pat: “He didn’t meet his death at all; it
overtook him, Sor.”
Priest: “But what was the complaint?”
Pat: “There was no complaint; they were
pleased for miles round.”
Priest: “Well, what happened to the dog,
Pat?”
Pat: “He went to meet a circular-saw,
your Riverence.”
Priest: “And how did he get on ?”
Pat: “He didn’t last half a round, Sor.”
A cable states that in the Toulouse
(France) law courts lawn tennis has been
legally defined as a sport. This upsets the
more general belief that it is a spare-time
occupation for journalists.
Hebe: “What, more drinks! No, I’ll
serve you— you’re not too bad —but I won’t
serve your friend—lie’s much too drunk
already.”
The Customer: “My friendsh too drunk!
Uo you (hie) know whash my friendsh is,
mish? My friendsh a parson.”
Ilebe: “A parson! I can’t believe it!
Why is he in this state’?”
The Customer: “Very sadsh case, mish.
Very (hie) sadsh case, indeed. His (hie)
church was burned down lash night.”
“Often,” says a fashion writer,” a 'ker-
chief is worn drawn through the belt.” We
know that; what we want to know is why
they insist on calling it a frock.
THE WHISPER.
A whisper swept across the plain,
Horne hither On the south-west wind;
It passed at once away again.
And left no single trace behind.
Sweetly and clearly it was brought;
Gently it passed (to my regret)
The only murmur I’ve ever caught
On my blasted home-made set!
victoria. W. Teare-Watson.
Sj{ Jjc
THE ANTI-PEDESTRIANS’ LEAGUE.
This society was formed to hasten, by all
legitimate means, the elimination of the
pedestrian. The first meeting was largely
attended by motorists and motor-cyclists.
Tram and train officials held watching briefs.
Mr. Rills Ryce, chairman, pointed out
that in the long run evolution could not be
withstood. Species which had served their
turn always tended to disappear. The
giant saurians had been replaced by the
quick-leaping tiger and the climbing ape,
and mistaken lmmanitarianism was keeping
the pedestrian alive by artificial means.
Mr. Ivnibbs-Wickens presented figures
showing that the present attempt to exter-
minate the species by running over them
was doomed to failure, owing to the steady
rise in the birth-rate. Additional methods
would have to be devised.
Mr. Lim O’Syne proposed legislative
action. Pedestrians were becoming daily
more agile. All footwear should be compul-
sorily shod with lead.
Mr. J. Backfirer complained of the mul-
tiplication of concrete safety-zones. They
used to be flat, giving motorists a fair
chance. Only the other day he had chased
a likely prospect on to one and had come
out of the encounter with a pair of broken
springs.
A gentleman who desired to remain
anonymous said that he had just returned
AN EASY WAY OUT.
“Percy, I don’t think you can afford to keep
a home going yet.”
“Oh, but, old girl, we could go out golfing
and motoring a lot, so we really
wouldn’t want a home much.”
from Paris, where pedestrians found under
motor-cars were fined. It would be more
efficacious, he thought, if they were hanged.
Resolutions embodying all these sug-
gestions were then put and carried on the
voices. Before the meeting broke up, how-
ever, Mr. Rhode Ilogge anxiously asked
the chairman if there wasn’t a danger that
things might be carried to extremes. The
total extinction of the pedestrian would spoil
the joy of motoring for him.
The chairman replied that for sporting
purposes a few could always be bred.
CHEVROFORD.
A SAILING-DAY CHANTY.
Oh, the skipper’s ready on the bridge,
The mate is in the bows.
( Chorus: Go easy, lads, be careful not to
sweat!)
For our orders are to do our best
To irritate the cows.
(Chorus: And push the blinkin’ owners into
debt.)
Notv it’s time to hoist the gangway up
And haul the shore ropes in.
( Chorus: So the firemen are jumping for the
pier. )
The mate has shipped his whistle,
And he's blowing it like sin.
(Chorus: Oh, it’s time we joined the firemen
in a beer.)
The engineers are jumpin’ wild,
The passengers look blue.
( Chorus : Oh, the sea is looking wet outside
the bay.)
The comer pub is calling us,
And likewise Sal and Sue.
( Chorus : So we’ll call a stop-work meeting
for to-day.)
It’s cosy with a pipe and glass,
And Sally on your knee.
( Chorus : So let the Old Man make his siren
roar.)
We signed to go, but signing
Ain’t no good to you and me.
( Chorus: He can shove his blinkin’ pas-
sengers ashore!)
N.S.W.
CRIPPS CLARK.


BLACK & WHITE
m
w
v
i
■
r
Mr
L |
1
i i
r*
li
H
4\
I :.v.
1
■
m
a
T-t
>1
-•'■v
H
*1
■
SfP
i!
/>
.
■I
■
' ■' :•
m
in
flm • £ .r £BSm
;
■
I * 3
H H
i
Si:5S»»
m
m
:«|fa
SH 1
:
MBs
■ i
■
ulfe '
m
11
■
■
&
■
■
■1
HI
I ■
ijiifpt i i ■■ ig
wJm.
* , ,
...._ _ * :
■ ■
■
is
: .
■
■
■
■ :
a
V
mm
SCOTCH WHISKY
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to rne
S ( r ' The I Ys Yi tir ely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject ai
a time. . . , , . •
The Service Department has come to the conclusion that it ought to be giving
more help to wireless users and would-be users. To this end it has added to its
great chain of professional helpers two radio experts, whose opinions and knowledge
will be available to readers who forward inquiries.
Wants.
Young Englishman, willing, four years’
all-round country experience, seeks position
station or farm; competent with tools and
horses ; excellent refs. —3575.
Farmer, with family, thoroughly experi-
enced in all branches, is open to work a
large property, wheat or wool, or both, on
share. —3521.
Countryman (20), book-keeper, knowledge
oil engines and windmills, able to drive and
repair motor-cars, desires position on
station; go anywhere in Q. or N.S.W. —
3537.
Married man (47), debarred from follow-
ing trade owing to failing eyesight, desires
any kind of light work in Sydney; trust-
worthy, punctual, sober and hard worker.
—3545.
Educated Englishman (28), married, some
experience teaching, urgently desires position
tutor or clerical, few evenings a week. Syd-
ney or suburbs. Highest personal refs. —3554.
Young man, commercial, travelling Tas-
mania, wants agencies, good references. —
3533.
Man, experienced with sheep, and having
well-grassed and netted country, S. Q’land,
wants someone to buy 1000 to 1500 sheep.
Will run them and look after them for half
profits.—3s7l.
Young man (South Aus.), 21, wants farm
work on shares or any independent work;
driven all farm implements, inc. scrub roller.
—3583.
Car- or lorry-driver requires situation, any
State. Clean English and Australian
licenses. Do running repairs, honest, sober
and good worker.—36oo.
Can any reader use a small engineering
works and foundry (N.S.W. country town)
for experimental work or otherwise? Pro-
prietor has little capital and plenty of
experience. Spoiling for want of work. —
3595.
Whereabouts of Quinton Mackinnon, last
heard of at Neutral Bay, Sydney. Uncle
inquiring. (Direct to John Mackinnon, 5
Frederick-place, Weymouth, England.)
Name of lawyers, probably Sydney, who
advertised in a missing friends’ ad. last
year for the whereabouts of a man named
Vest.—3s94.
To get in touch with a store that sells
“Palm” brand overcoats. —3430.
. To rent or purchase small brick cottage,
Mosman (Sydney), vicinity wharf. No fancy-
priced places considered. —3551.
To buy, “Art of J. ,T. Ililder.” To sell Akt
in Australia, Nos. 6, 7 and 11, first series.
(Direct to L. Simmons, Church-street,
Mitcham, Vic.)
To buy, new or second-hand, Kobbe’s
“Cbmplete Opera 800k.”—3498.
To buy barrister’s wig and g0wn. —3540.
T© buy copy of magazine containing full-
page picture (bust) of Mary Miles Minter.
State price.—3546.
To purchase a stencil duplicator. State
make and price.—3553.
To buy new or secondhand horse whim,
iron, not wood; for mine haulage.—3s6B.
To sell books on short-story writing,
poetry, fiction (by the Masters), music,
humor, philosophy, psychology, etiquette,
psycho-analysis, history, biography, hygiene,
etc. (Direct to Miss Dora Millard, Box
938 G.P.0., Brisbane.)
To sell nearly new tenor saxophone, with
case, beautiful instrument, almost new, £23
cash, £25 terms, or exchange for 4-valve
radio, complete; money adjustment. (Direct
to N. P. Shaw, Berkeley Vale, via Wyong,
N.5.W.)—3544.
To sell copy, third edition, “Works of
Creation,” by John Ray, 1701, with book-
pldte ; fair condition. —3577.
To sell Guest House, close to river beach,
accommodate 18; two garages, fully fur-
nished, walk-in walk-out, £420. (Direct to
Mrs. Guest, P. 0., Wagga, N.S.W.)
Sell or exchange for gramophone, electric
vacuum-cleaner of fair quality, wardrobe,
Hamilton-Beach electric motor, 1-14 li.p.
(Direct to 14 Atkinson-street, Arncliffe,
Sydney.)
To sell five A. and N. Co-op. Stores (Adel-
aide ) shares. —3573.
To sell copies “Phil May in Australia,”
de luxe edition, £3 3s. : naper-covered edition,
cover torn, £1 Is. —3552.
Copy of “Skyline Riders,” by Henry Law-
son. (Direct to 11. McDonough, Orbost, Vic.)
Words to the music of “Spring Song”
and “Traumerei.” —3556.
Words of “Lasca.” (Direct, F. Richards,
Ashford, N.S.W.)
Exchange carved large cuckoo clock, value
£l2 10s., for good camera.—3s9B.
Information Sought.
I have a horse badly affected with worms.
What treatment would you advise? —3476.
The chief worms which infest horses are
the lumbricoid, a long -white parasite in
length from 7 to IS inches. It usually
invades the small intestines, and -young
horse's are chiefly affected. To prevent per-
petuating, pour boiling water on all worms
passed. In young horses treatment consists
in administration of a drench made up cf
turpentine loz., sweet spirits of nitre loz.,
and raw linseed-oil 1 pint. Drench on an
empty stomach. The most dangerous internal
parasite is the blood worm, lfin. to 2in.
long, and found in the large intestines, and
also in the mesenteric arteries, where
aneurisms are formed. During lodgment in
the iutestines, curative treatment is often
successful. One ounce of Fowler’s solution ot
arsenic should be given in the morning feed
for about 30 days, and afterwards administer
a mild physic ball. Regular doses of com-
mon salt will prove beneficial. The common
maw or stomach worm of the horse is only
about 4in. to 4in. in length. It is found m
the membrane of the stomach, and in time
produces suppurating tumors. The arsenical
treatment recommended wilLassist in elimin-
ating these parasites from the stomach. A
worm which requires special local treatment
is the pin worm, found in the colon and
rectum, where it sets up local irritation.
The eggs accumulate around the anus. If the
horse is rubbing the tail against fences and
walls, give a physic ball, and administer
enemas of salt and warm water in rectum in
the proportion of one dessertspoonful of salt
to each quart of water. In the prevention ot
internal parasites in horses, the owner should
see that yards, mangers, etc., are maintained
in a sanitary condition, otherwise there will
be successive generations of parasites.
What office will give me the most insur-
ance for my money? I want a non-profit-
carrying policy, payable at death. —3320.
Comparisons will vary with the age of the
proponent. Leading offices would give for
£2O a year the following amounts to a first-
class life insuring at 40 next birthday:
A.P.A., £775; A.M.P.. £766; M.L.C., £766;
Colonial Mutual, £739 11s.; City Mutual,
£690. The National Mutual quotes on
nearest birthday—nearest birthday 39,
£797; nearest birthday 40, £770.
How to cure fowls attached by ticks? —
3433.
Very little can be done towards curing
birds affected with the. tick fever, but a
teaspoonful of castor-oil followed by an
aspirin tablet three times a day may be
effective in some cases. Eradication should
be attempted in all cases, and if the direc-
tions for spraying with kerosene emulsion
given in the leaflet posted are followed the
tick can be kept under control.
How can I make an underground aerial
for a radio receiving set and how should I
connect it up? —3sol.
An underground aerial is constructed by
burying about 100 ft. of No. 16 V.I.R. wire
one foot underground. The end furthest
from the receiver must be carefully insulated
by first dipping it in wax and then securely
binding it with insulating tape. This is
important in order to prevent the possibility
of a leakage to earth, at the extreme end of
the wire. The other end of the wire is
brought straight up to the receiver aerial
terminal. The portion of the wire above
ground must be kept as short as possible and
should leave the earth immediately under-
neath the receiver. The underground portion
of the wire must point roughly in the direc-
tion of the station it is desired to receive, as
this type of aerial possesses directional pro-
perties. The usual earth connection may be
employed, or, as an alternative, a second wire
similar in every respect to the one already
described may be run at right-angles to this
wire and connected to the receiver earth
terminal. This will tend to counteract the
directional properties of the first aerial.
(1) A prescription for a back-country
man who suffers severely from bilious
attacks and constipation? (2) Name de-
finitely what foods I should omit, or use
sparingly. (3) Does smoking predispose to
or cause biliousness? —3420.
(1) Try this : Sodii bicarb, 15 gr.; tinct.
nuc. vom., 7 m.; ext. case, sagrad. liq., 15
m.; sp. chlor., 15 m.; inf. gent, co ad ss. oz.;
misce mitte, Soz.; tablespoon (1) t.d.s.a.c.
(2) Eat anything you like unless it is
always followed by another attack. (3)
Smoking excessively may easily make your
condition. If you are not better in a week,
see a qualified medical man.
How can I remove mildew from a self-
colored silk garment? —3472.
Dissolve loz. tartaric acid in a small
breakfast cup of water. Apply to each
stain separately with a small swab of
cotton wool on the end of a match. Expose
the garment to bright sunlight while still
moist. Repeat this treatment several times
if necessary. If the garment is colored the
acid may or may not affect the color.
Determine this by swabbing a piece of the
material on the inside of a seam. If the
color is affected the only remedy for mildew
is to continually expose the damp garment
to sunlight.
Is there any cure for mange on a dog? —
3492.
The question of cure will depend on the
condition of the animal, duration of skin
trouble, etc. The general health of the dog
must be attended to, i.e., diet and keeping
the bowels in good order. Diet is of great
importance, and there must be limitation of
sugary foods. Wash affected skin with soap
and water, and after the dog has been pro-
perly dried rub in the following mixture: —
Sulphur, loz.; oil of eucalyptus, ioz.; olive
or fish oil, Soz. This should remain on for
at least three days. It may then be washed
off and again applied.
I am experiencing interference from a
dynamo which is 40 yds. from my receiver.
What can I do to remedy this?- —3538.
Place the receiver and lead-in in a position
as far away as possible from any electric-
light wires ; and in the event of the aerial
being in proximity of or running parallel to
the outside mains from the dynamo, it will
be necessary to move same to a more dis-
tant position. The aerial must also be placed
perpendicular to the outside mains. Should
this fail to produce the desired effect, for-
ward full detailed particulars of your dyna-
mo, and closely inspect the commutator and
brushes.
I have an SO ft. aerial for a crystal set, but
the distant pole is much lower than the near
one. Docs this affect reception; in view
of this, would the horizontal portion (60 ft.)
be more or less waste? —3550.
Although it is an advantage to maintain
the whole of the horizontal portion of an
aerial at approximately the same height from
the ground, in the case of a crystal receiver
it is essential to employ a long high aerial,
and we would not recommend a reduction in
the length of your present one. The effective
height, and therefore the efficiency, of an
aerial is somewhat reduced when the free
end is near to the ground.
Patches of grey have appeared on our
lawns. Through a magnifying-glass they
look, like little balls clinging to the leaves.
What are they, and how can I get rid of
them? —3480.
One of the slime fungi, probably Phy-
sarum, which has ascended the grass blades
to sporulate. The species is not parasitic
upon grass, so there is no danger of its
spreading. The greater part of its existence
is passed in the soil as a substance like the
white of egg. It should disappear after the
lawns have been watered.
What impedimenta should be taken by a
young white woman to Rabaul, going there,
for the first time, to join her husband for a
long stay? (1) Clothing? (2) Medicines?
(3) Firearms? (4) Any handy adjuncts to
comfort and well being? (5) Are there many
white women in Rabaul and is the life at
all an unhealthy one? —3547.
The Bulletin’s well-known New Guinea
contributor, Mrs. Alys Brown, was asked to
help here. She replies : (1) Clothing: White
cellular undervests. Fine nainsook or taran-
tulle lingerie (to stand native laundry),
light unboned corselets. Simply-made linen or
fuji-de-luxe frocks (crepe de Chine perishes
quickly). White cotton stockings are easier
to wear than artificial silk ones. Welted
sole shoe (pump soles perish). Mosquito
boots. Rain coat and rubber boots. Green-
lined umbrella. Large gauze veil. Panama
or bankok straw hats, shady brim, wuth
square of turkey-red twill inside crown. There
are excellent stores at Rabaul, and Chinese
tailors will make frocks, etc., to order at
moderate pri’ces. (2) Medicines: Small
supply of quinine. Quinine and rhubarb com-
pound. Aspirin tabloids. Tubes of borofax
for mosquito bites. Odd pieces of washed
white linen or cotton are useful. (3) Fire-
arms : I never used or needed firearms in
Papua, but I have heard from Rabaul that
white women need some protection. Much
depends on the attitude of the woman herself
to the natives. Can be safely left to hus-
band’s discretion. (4) Handy adjuncts: A
large fine meshed mosquito net, tennis
racquet, electric torch, good quantity of bath
towels. As there are good stores in Rabaul
it would be best only to take what is neces-
sary for a short while, as duty would have to
be paid on any excessive quantity of either
medicines or clothing. (5) There are a good
many white women in Rabaul. The climate
is hot and steamy. Malaria and dengue pre-
valent. Earth tremors are frequent and affect
some people’s nerves. Tennis, boating, swim-
ming, dancing, motoring. Complete absti-
nence from alcoholic beverages can do a good
deal towards maintaining health.
Information Supplied.
3266. —To permanently attach an axe-
head, first procure three or four small iron
wedges tapering from -Jin. to nothing and
about four inches long. Dump the head well
on, drive the usual wooden wedges, then the
iron ones. This treatment has held my
axehcad rigid for five years, and I live in as
dry a spot as there is in N. S. Wales. —
“Hayband.”
3243. —To make mead, take 71b. honey,
3gal. water and 2 well-beaten eggs and boil
all gently for half-hour. Then add, tied in
a muslin bag, small bunches of marjoram,
sweet briar or lemon balm, and Joz. each
cinnamon, mace, cloves and root ginger. Boil
a further 15 minutes, and allow to cool.
When quite cold stir in a tablespoonful of
brewer’s yeast and strain into a cask. Keep
open till fermentation has ceased, then bung.
Should remain six months in the barrel—-
longer if you want the sweetness to go off
entirely.—“R. Mort.”
3272.—T0 stain and polish jarrah-wood
floor without varnish, spread raw linseed
oil liberally on the wood with a large paint-
brush or rag. Leave for a day, then repeat
the operation. Make a polisher with a strong
piece of board about 12in. by 12in. and fit
a broom handle to the back at an angle of
about 45 degrees. Cover the board with
several thicknesses of old blanket or woollen
stuff, fasten a stout outer cloth over the
whole, and rub the floor vigorously. A bees-
wax polish may be applied. If the wood is
wanted very dark, apply further coats Of
oil before polishing.—“ Max.”
2930. —To remove thick rust from a steel
girder used as an anvil, put the girder in the
fire and heat to cherry-red stage. The rust
can then be chipped off with an old chisel or
similar tool. —“M.”
3272. —To stain and polish a jarrah-wood
floor without using varnish: Place Jib. whit-
ing (finely powdered) in a clean tin; add
2oz. pale blue color, J pint turpentine and
a small quantity (about teaspoonful) of
terebene. Mix all well together. Apply with a
brush, allow to stand for a few minutes,
then wipe off with a rag. All ingredients
obtainable at a paint shop.—“Pila.”
3281. —To cement a galvanised-iron tank:
Four parts cement, one part plaster of Paris,
one part steel or iron filings, and enough
water to form a thick paste. Mix quickly
and apply quickly. Leave for a couple of
days or so. Holes in the tank should be
first plugged with wood. —“Pila.”
3105. —In bottling tomatoes treat 41b. at
one time. Pour boiling water over them. In
a few minutes remove skin; then place in
pan; add teaspoonful salt, piece butter size
of a walnut: should cook in about 10 or
12 minutes. Have bottles hot; fill and make
airtight. Two-pound treacle tins are better
than jars or bottles as parafhn-wax
run round the lids, making tins absolutely
airtight. No water to be used. — * ranis J.
Brief Answers.
Bessie: Assuming you want (1) safety
first, and (2) something you can sell promptly in
an emergency, we don’t recommend either. .. . W .T. .
“Bungarribee” is an abo. word meaning hut....
J.D.: “Malarauha” means sandhills.. . .F.0.R.:
N.S.W. Government Departments reckon “height above
sea-level” from “mean sea-level,” which reaches a
point marked zs2sft. on Fort Denison tide gauge. This
datum was adopted as standard in 1897. .. . A. 8..
The specimen forwarded for identification is Centi-
peda cunninghamii. It is a native plant with a
wide distribution throughout the State, and is
frequently known as sneeze weed... .C.D.F.:
Travellers from Australia to Nairobi, Kenya Colony,
generally proceed by White Star or Aberdeen Line
steamers to Durban (single fares from about £35
to £45). Thence by boat to Mombassa (fare about
£3O), and finally by train to Nairobi (fare about
£7 or £8) 1’.T.0.: Barmaids are not registered
in Westralia, and no licenses have ever been issued.
The wages of barmaids and barmen are £5 ss. per
week, and are fixed by the Court of Arbitration or
by round-table conferences between the Licensed
Victuallers’ Association and the W.A. Barmaids’
and Barmen’s Union... .E.J.S.: (1) An unpublished
novel can be copyrighted at a cost of ss. Make
application at the Copyright Office, Brisbane, where
the necessary forms can be obtained. A copy of the
work must be lodged on application. (2) The Act
can be purchased from the Federal Government
Printer, Canberra, F.C.T P.K.: See Greek Consul,
who would be the proper person to approach the State
Government, and ascertain if it will accept any
responsibility in the matter... .D.M.: Amateur
World’s Rest (paced and flying start) : S. Sulkins,
lmin. 13sec.; (unpaced and flying), Parley Giles,
lrnin. 55sec. Professional World’s Best (paced and
flying) :W. T. Hall, lmin. 1 l-ssec.; (unpaced and
flying), A. T. Goullet, lmin. 51sec. Australian
Amateurs’ Best (paced and flying) : P. S. Berry, lmin.
29 2-ssec. ; (unpaced and flying), E. W. Schneider,
2min. 1 3-ssec. Australian Professional Best (paced
and flying) :R. Findlay, lmin. 21 l-ssec.; (unpaced
and flying start), G. H. Border, 2min. 2 3-ssec
N.P.S.: You may make a written request on the
owner of the adjoining property to assist in equal
proportions to put the dividing fence in sound
condition. If he refuses, or neglects to do so within
six months after receiving notice, without giving a
reasonable excuse, then you may carry out the
work yourself and half the money expended may be
recovered from him R.F.N.: Some can learn by
correspondence, but, of course, personal tuition is
the superior method. Communicate with the Albert
School of Music, 137 King-street, Sydney N.G.:
To us they look very good. . . .E.W.S.: It has no
past from which one can judge its future; the
management has yet to prove itself in an undertaking
of the kind ; and the undertaking itself is full of
perils J.M.: N.S.W. Agricultural Department
would analyse a sample of well-water. Forward
1 quart in a clean bottle, securely packed and
state to what use the water would be put, viz., for
cattle, sheep, etc., and source of supply, viz., whether
from creek, well or bore, etc. By obtaining a cer-
tificate from the department in the first instance,
you can secure free transit of sample on the rail-
ways C.J.H. : The fertiliser is called Even Plant
Food (“E.P.F.”), manufactured by Complete Ferti-
liser and Soil Products Association, T. and G. Build-
ing, Adelaide. Price, £l6 per ton f.o.b. Principal
claim made for it is that it contains a culture of
nitrogenous bacteria in addition to all the essential
soil constituents in a water soluble form... .E.S.:
Not stocked by any leading Sydney music store. You
will have to go direct to the manufacturer....
N.S.G.: Call on Esdailes, Hunter-street, Sydney, and
test the different makes. It is a matter of personal
taste C.8.M.K.: (1) “The Five Books of Gar-
gantua and Pantagruel,” St. Martin’s Library series,
three vols., 4s. Cd. per vol., and in two vols. by the
Navarre Society at £3 3s. the two. (2) “Essays
on Pessimism” (3s. 6d.). (3) One and two from
Roycroft Library, Sydney. (4) Edith Sitwell has
published a score of little works and Osbert almost
as many (ask any good bookseller for list). (5)
A matter of opinion. (6) Almost every large book-
store... .G.8.R.: The employment of a youth driving
and attending to a motor-car and doing “generally-
useful” work about the garden, etc., is not covered
by any State award in N. S. Wales... .J.M.C.: Get
a job in a real-estate agent’s office, and you’ll soon
find out if that’s your line. . . .M.M.: Mineral speci-
mens “not for sale” may be sent overseas by Patterns
and Samples Post. Maximum packet to U.K., 2ft.
X Ift. x Ift., and 51b. weight ; to all other places
lft. X Bin. x 4in., and lib. weight. Postage within
British Empire, Id. per 4oz. ; all other places, Id.
per 20z.... .N.G.: Angus and Robertson, Castlereagh-
street, Sydney, will send you a long list on request.
A.J.H. : (1) Lodge with a copy of the work ss.
at Copyright Office, Commonwealth Bank Chambers,
Sydney. (2) In England it is reckoned that printing
and publishing costs £8 ; but there are other charges.
Composers are generally paid from 2d. to 3d.
royalty on sale of 2s. editions. (3) Get in touch
with Albert and Son, Sydney, and Allan and Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne. Sydney Wiseman, 29 Philpott-
street, Marrickville, Sydney, could advise you re
English conditions. (4) Read “Advice to Composers,’
in Black’s “Writers and Artists’ Year Book”
F.0.R.: Write Albert College of Music, King-street.
Sydney T.A.: (1) Ash’s “Hypnotic Suggestion.'
Baudouin’s “The Power Within Us” and “Suggestion.'
and Auto-Suggestion,” Bousfield's “Omnipotent Self,
Farel’s “Hypnotism” and J. G. Gehring’s “The Hop;
of the Variant” —all are at Sydney Public Library
(2) Still searching, reply later... .R.L.: Field for
assayers is very restricted at the moment. Oppor-
tunities were said lately to exist in New Guinea
Approach cos. operating there... .W.W.L.: Books ”
ambulance work can be got from St. John Ambu-
lance Association, 8 Bridge-street, Sydney. (Pric.
list posted) G.F.: (1) Almost any music house
(2) Apply to any of the firms advertising in The B
(3) Permission must be applied for from the firm
publishing or controlling any particular items.
C.G.: Paling’s can supply “Minuet in G” with word-
“My Lady Fair.” Don’t know of other two being
printed with words... .H.R.: (1) (a) Nominally on!}
one on most American railways, but a multitude oi
extra charges create the distinctions that exist else-
where. (b) Travellers’ books point to more than
one class (see “Manual of Argentine Railways,” by
Sir Stephen Killik). (c) “Soviet Year Book” doe;
not publish any data. (2) (a) Varies with differen,
cos. ; minimum about Id. per mile, (b and c) Y
data. (3) (a) Thos. Cook’s, Martin-place, Sydney,
will supply list, (b) English family hotels at Bue;.-
Ayres charge from £1 ss. to £2 per day. ( f
Uncertain, but high A.A.: Name of the Pert:
doctor who performed the operation has been for-
warded'by letter... .J.P.S.: The safest is Common-
wealth stock. Next, selected bank shares. After that,
very carefully chosen pref. shares in a co. listed on
the Stock Exchange.... (Many others mailed.)


How does he do it ? In four minutes he’s down,
smooth-chinned and smiling, the envy of all men
who don’t know the secret. He uses a “ Valet.”
The “rushed” shave has no terrors for the
“Valet” owner, because the razor’s always ready
for him. In ten seconds, with nothing to un-
screw, he can put a professional edge on the
blade ; after shaving a rinse under the tap leaves
the razor clean for the next time.
“VALET”
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD..
181. CLARENCE STREET, . SYDNEY.
New Zealand Agents:
Van Staveren Bros., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch.
No. 55 Set. Contains specially
designed razor, three blades
and strop in hinged container.
In highly polished 1 f
nickelled case . . | v "
Of all dealers
M
IBM*
liiii**'
NIAGARA FALLS
f. ,//
•awv
-- ■- /
a?*' .
J/mw
esr
Across tfie United States
Combining raiband'water travel in pleasant diversity, one can
reach London in 29 days from Sydney, via the United States.
Swift Matson Oceanic liners cross to San Francisco in 19
days, pausing at Suva (Fiji), Pago Pago (Samoa), and Hono
lulu (Hawaii), each an island paradise of luxuriant tropical
verdure.
The transcontinental rail trip from San Francisco offers
opportunity to view such world'wonders as Yosemite Valley,
the Grand Canyon, Yellowstone National Park, the Great
Lakes, Niagara Falls—with visits to Chicago and New York,
cities of skyscrapers; and Washington, the beautiful national
capital. Sumptuous trains, with special observation'cars, all
the way. Stopover privileges at any point.
Fares: Sydney to San Francisco, from £ll6/10/', first class
return; £Bl/'/', second class return, available for 12 months.
Sydney to London, via San Francisco, £125, first class throughout;
£92/'/- second class steamer, and first class rail; 12 months allowed
in which to complete the journey.
Round the World Tickets, £235/'/' first class, £176 second class
steamer and first class rail, with stopover privileges anywhere, avail'
able for 2 years. Plan to travel to Europe at least one way by the
Matson Oceanic scenic route. The illustrated travel leaflet, “Across
the United States,” is free upon request.
S.S. SIERRA. S.S. SONOMA. S.S. VENTURA.
Sailing every third Saturday.
HTBPM MM
m
m
s
p
m
, i a 12 Bridge Street, Sydney. C”/ 8
Ag l nts: Mcllw/raith M cEacharn Ltd., 94'96 William St., Melbourne; 117U19 King
William ot., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth and Albany; Howard Smith Limited, Brisbane.
I feel so
tired...
yOll must conquer that state of weakened
health by toning up your nerves and
restoring their power of resistance —
with Sanatogen.
Sanatogen is the ideal combination of
exactly those two elements phosphorus
and albumin which build up lasting
health in the body.
A few weeks’ use of Sanatogen will take
away that feeling of listlessness and
nervous debility.
Get your tin of Sanatogen to-day. Your nearest
Chemist sells it from 3)9 per tin.
SANATOGEN
GENATOSAN LTD., Loughborough, England.


The
/
“Ideal”
A Raincoat that is not
an encumbrance
A Raincoat weighing only 190 z., that can be rolled up and carried in
the hip pocket these are two unique qualifications of the “Ideal
Waterproof Coat, which undoubtedly solves the problem of providing
for the vagaries of the weather.
On any excursions from home-—in town or country, at race meetings
or other outdoor sports, it can be tucked away and forgotten, ready
for instant use in case of emergency. It leaves one entirely free from
the inconveniences experienced with the ordinary raincoat, which has,
in the past, rightly been regarded as an encumbrance.
None the qualities essential to a well-tailored coat are sacrificed
in achieving such remarkable utility. The "Ideal” Raincoat is one of
the smartest, best-tailored garments for wet weather that has yet been
seen on the Australian market.
Guaranteed
Waterproof.
Prices
45/- & 65/-
Procurable
from—
Go wing Bros., George Street.
Sydney.
Leviathan,
Melbourne.
Foy & Gibson’s,
Adelaide.
Poverty
Point
“Harry Stottle”: Stage-friglit manifests
itself in extraordinary fashion. At Kyneton
(Vic.) fire-brigade sports the other day the
hydrant-carrier for one of the reel teams,
instead of dashing off at the pistol shot,
commenced marking time at the double, and
remained, despite the roar of the barrackers,
running furiously on the same spot for sev-
eral seconds. He explained afterwards that
he felt like a man in a nightmare. It
was certainly a nightmare for his team’s
backers.
“Cine Ma” : At what pains Hollywood is
to make itself intelligible to the outer world !
The other night I witnessed one of the
school comedies so prevalent at present.
The mixing of men and maids in the same
seminaries has long been so common in
Australia that it is taken as a matter of
course. In America, however, it is appar-
ently considered a daring experiment. Con-
sequently these films are all concerned with
sloppy love affairs between immature mem-
bers of the sexes who break college regula-
tions by hopping out of windows and cuddling
their classmates in the woods. The action
of the specimen I saw was getting incompre-
hensible when the subtitlist came to the
rescue. “Come on, sophomores ! The swosli
have swiped my frat pin,” is what he said.
After that all was clear.
“Eureka”: Radio broadcasting of plays
will have to improve a lot before there is
even a remote possibility of it superseding
the legitimate stage. As at present pro-
duced it is pretty hopeless. The monotonous,
soulless expressions are painful to listen to,
which cannot be wondered at, considering
the artists cluster round a tiny microphone
with no effects to give them inspiration.
Television would complete the farce. Fur-
ther, the artists speak their parts as if in
a hurry to catch the last train home. Listen-
ing to two recent play broadcasts I con-
sidered I wasted threepence-worth of battery
juice.
“Spokeshave” : The craze for dressing the
Bard in modern duds has reached Melbourne.
Beresford Fowler, in coat, vest and pants,
will shortly tame a shrew in shingle and
short skirts. Fowler has made a wise
choice. If the thing has to be done, it might
as well be “The Shrew”—a hard, crude,
knock-’em-down and drag-’em-out melodrama,
probably thrown off by its writer to gratify
the craving for violence of the Elizabethan
equivalent of the audiences at present flock-
ing to “The Terror.”
“L. de Rideau” : The Victorian quota has
not produced any very striking screen dramas
up to date, but it has greatly improved the
quality of, the Australian scenic. Instead of
passively awaiting the weekly issue of Presi-
dent Coolidge opening the big ball game at
Oshkosh, Mich., the cinema man now rakes
his own country for the picturesque. / Some
little-known Australian pastimes have been
brought to light in consequence. Few Mel-
bourne people, for instance, realised, until
the screen man got to work, the thrill and
fun of sailing-punt racing at Williamstown,
right at the city’s door. The narrow-gutted
craft carry a theoretically absurd quantity
of cloth, and capsizes are the order of the
day. The crew of two think little of it.
They climb out on the garboard strake and
right their tiny dreadnoughts without losing
more than a second or two. Yet some patri-
otic showmen don’t give these home goods a
chance. They relegate them to the begin-
ning or end of a programme lest their patrons
be disturbed in their contemplation of the
glories of the United States, where every-
thing is done so much better, you know.
A note from Edinburgh:—
Dear Bulletin, —I do not want to enter into a
controversy with “Cajsar’s Ghost,” who said a month
or two ago that I was dead, because he might prove
that I am. But I remain Yours truly, W. S. Peiicy.
“Harnfat”: A recent carnival in Sydney
got a huge advertisement through proceed-
ings being threatened if goat races were
held. It pays to flout the law over these
matters. My first experience was a “bicycle
night,” given in a Dunedin theatre in a
desperate effort to save the company at the
end of a frosty season. The chance of hold-
ing the ticket with the lucky number that
won the bicycle brought crowds to fill the
house. The police prosecuted for a breach
of the gambling laws, but the fine and the
lawyer’s charges together reached a mere
five guineas. The bike, given at less than
cost for the sake of the advertisement, hit
us for another fiver, and the extra advertise-
ment was a matter of a couple of quid. The
£l5O house made our law-breaking very
profitable.
“St. John’s Wood” (Lond.) : The Lord
Chamberlain draws the line at a bishop
shooting a Prime Minister —in a play, of
course. Pemberton Billing’s new drama has
such an incident, but the shooting had to
THE CAREFUL YOUTH.
“What makes you think he is economical, dear?”
“Well, he makes a kiss last longer than any other boy I know.”
be bowdlerised; it is now done by a vicar.
“High Treason” is the temporary title, and
the subject is war. At a discussion of the
Cabinet in Downing-street the P.M. is about
to use the microphone and announce the
decision to the nation —it is to be war —
when the bishop, or vicar, shoots him.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : If Sir Barry
Jackson attains his desire and has a London
theatre of his own there should be some
innovations. He would sweep the stalls
bodily into the dress-circle, charge 255. each
for them, and let the patrons come in
late and tread on each other’s toes to their
heart’s content. The pit he would bring
forward right up to the stage, for the brains
of an audience, he believes, have always
been and always will be in the pit. Jackson
is credited with possessing the deepest
theatrical pockets in England.
“Craiser”: Tich’s final season in Austra-
lia was a failure which culminated in the
penny-throwing episode at Melbourne
Tivoli. The small buffoon was genuinely
surprised at the adverse reception. His
comedy was as good as ever, and he tripped
over his skirts as vigorously as of yore,
though failing physical power had made him
lay aside the elongated boots which were a
feature of his earlier performances. What
he forgot was that in the interim scores of
lesser clowns without his personality had
filched his business. The irony of it was
that many of those who so cruelly gave him
the bird genuinely believed that it was he
who was copying someone else.
“Harnfat”: For their grand-opera season,
which starts on March 10, at the St. James,
Sydney, the Fullers have fixed prices that
should make this sort of entertainment more
popular than it usually is. Half a crown will
yield a ha’penny change for the cheaper
seats; the highest prices on ordinary nights
will not soar above Bs., and 10s. will cover
the reserves on first nights. If the venture
is successful, the Fullers propose perma-
nent grand opera—three months in Sydney
and Melbourne and the rest of the year in
other centres.
“Caesar’s Ghost” : Florence Astral is rak-
ing in the shekels in the U.S.A. Her con
tract guarantees her £lO,OOO for 40 con-
certs, and incidentals are likely to make it
much more than.that.
“Flaming Youth” : Opera singing is a busi-
ness in which antiques are valued, and the
Fullers’ idea of catching ’em young, before
their salaries have soared, makes cheap-
priced opera possible. This, however, doesn’t
mean that the coming season’s principals
have not had triumphs. Margherita Flor
made her d6but only three years ago, but she
created a sensation in the first production
of Puccini’s “Turandot” at Trieste. Rosita
Silvestri dates her singing career back only
to 1026, and Olga Poletti goes back eight
years, but they and Nina Algozzino have
scored in cities that think music as neces-
sary as bread and cheese. The men are
young, too. Five years ago enthusiasm of
the Florentines made Brandisio Vnnnuei
famous in a night, and Arturo Tamburini
stirred Turin only last year. One thing that
should be in their favor is an absence of
the aldermanic stomachs and matronly forms
usual among operatic stars.
“G.H.L.”: Various attempts to dance for
100 hours have recently been frustrated,
either by public intervention or by the ex-
haustion of the dancer. Five thousand
assembled at the Palais Royal, Geelong, the
other week, during the last few hours of Bert
Nichol’s attempt to accomplish the folly.
Though he appeared to be petering out dur-
ing the morning, he recovered when the end
was in sight at 8 p.m. and finished the stu-
pidity with his wife as partner. The youth
(only 21) commenced in pumps, size 6 ; he
finished in shoes four sizes larger, which
were later removed with difficulty. The local
“Lloyd’s” offered 50 to 1 against, and were
accepted by a few whom the odds attracted.
“Cauboy”: By 106 votes to 88 the Mel-
bourne Repertory Society dropped the Tait
proposal that it should co-operate in the
production of “literary” drama by pros.,
whereat, no doubt, the Taits sighed thank-
fully and shouted themselves a congratula-
tory pot. They have lost heavily in support-
ing amateur productions, and one reason they
ascribe is that the amateur societies insist
on labelling their pieces “repertory.” The
Melbourne organisation’s affection for the
word is fanatical. Either a play is bad or it
is “repertory.” If it is “repertory” it is
good in itself, and if the public doesn’t flock
to see it, that shows the public is an
ignorant ass. The ordinary playgoer, how-
ever, isn’t such an ass as he is made out to
be. He knows if he is being bored, whether
the show is “Gabriel Borkman” or “Up in
Mabel’s Itoom.” The trouble about many
“repertory” plays is not that they are too
intellectual, but that they are too infernally
unactable. After all, the fact that a man has
a philosophy of life does not prove that he
is a good dramatist. The word “repertory”
carries a dreary reputation in the public
mind, and the Taits are wise to drop it.
“Guiser”: J. C. Williamsons did not put
on a panto, in Melbourne this season, and
their publicity Jeremiah bewailed in the
papers the dreadful decline in panto,
popularity. He also shed ink over the
enormous, the prohibitive, cost of putting on
a panto. Meanwhile Fullers produced
“Robinson Crusoe” at the Princess. They
opened on December 24 and gave matinees
every day until February 4, when they
dropped back to the usual bi-weekly habit.
At practically every performance, hot or
cold, wet or fine, they turned people away.
“Mime”: The Melbourne Sun News-Pic-
torial refers to “Macbeth” as “Shakspeare’s
great Scottish drama.” It is, I suppose. It
certainly was when Walter Bentley tried it
and spoke in a strong haggis accent. But
then poor Walter made Hamlet a Scotch-
man. I’ll never forget his “marr-r-ried wi’
ma uncle.” Harrv Lauder couldna’ liae done
it mair brawly. But that’s nothing. I
heard an indignant patron criticising Oscar
Ascho’s Shylock once because he “didn’t
speak a bit like a Yid.” There are those of
us who would like to see Stiffy and Mo in
Shakspeare—say, “Two Gentlemen of Ver-
ona.”
“Ula” : An English film company is cater-
ing for music lovers with photoplays depict-
ing the lives of old music masters and com-
posers. Already several have been screened in
Australia dealing with Chopin, Mozart, Beet-
hoven and others, and they have been
superbly acted and produced. I have viewed
several in Melbourne, and each was very
.well received. During each screening the
orchestra gives a recital of work by the
master whose story is being told.
“Cyrano” (Lond.) : Following parents’
footsteps seems the trend of youngsters of
English vaudevillains. Will Hay, jun., is
playing the small boy in his father’s school-
room sketches, which were a hit on the
Tivolis. Arthur Prince’s son looked after
his dad’s dummy during his recent Ameri-
can vaudeville tour. Florence Smithson’s
daughter, Joy, has written several big num-
bers for her mother, and is on a musical-
comedy score that her mum intends taking
on tour. Betty Errol, daughter of female-
impersonator Bert, has made London sit up
and take notice of her work in the act of
her father and mother—Ray Hartley.
Australians will have the opportunity of judg-
ing for themselves within the next few
montins, as Errol sails from London in
March to make a reappearance at the
Tivolis.
“L.H.P.”: Boito’s “Mefistofele” is a
novelty in the Fullers’ grand-opera scheme. A
failure at first in Italy in 1868, it took the
stage again seven years later, carefully
revised and “cut.” Boito is his own
librettist —Australia knows him already irt
that sphere through “Otello” and other
operas—and he has caught exactly the
atmosphere of Goethe’s drama. He based
his “book” on both parts of Goethe’s work,
which makes almost two operas in one.
Where the work touches on the familiar
story of Faust and Marguerite it is intensely
interesting, despite recollections of Gounod’s
“Faust.” When it strays into part two of
Goethe’s drama the main thread of the
action suddenly seems broken. The skein
ravels. That is why one of the most pro-
found works for the lyric stage, one of the
most beautiful scores that have come out of
Italy, is heard so infrequently.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : Another Aus-
tralian has made a good start in pantomime
here. Vera Wright, a contralto with a gay
sense of acting, makes a sprightly hero as
St. George in a jolly setting of the legend.
With the Seven Champions as a bodyguard,
she wins hearty applause for her fight with
the Dragon.
“Peter Pan”: Another Australian doing
well in New York is Anthony Clark, son of
Dr. Clark, of Hobart. As soon as he arrived
there he got a part with Jeanne Eagles
in “Her Cardboard Lover,” and is still
appearing successfully in it. Earlier he had
a long season in London with Sybil Thorn-
dike in “Saint Joan.”
THE MOVIPHOBE.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I care in no intense degree
What sort of Heav’n it is that waits
Right-thinking coves like you and me
The other side the Pearly Gates.
One needs must leave it to the fates;
’Twould put the angels in a fix
To study all our loves and hates.
But oh! I hope there won’t be flicks.
With no profound antipathy
My stolid fancy contemplates
Those bursts of angel minstrelsy
In our celestial estates,
Those harps and crowns, those wihgSd
mates
With whom in concert halls we’ll mix
Or hold delectable debates.
But oh! I trust there won’t be flicks.
The Moslem paradise, pardie!
Presents some quite alluring traits.
The Indian thinks to wander free
In wilds where game predominates.
Each creed—and who shall blame? —
creates
Its own Elysium past the Styx.
But what imaginative straits
Could dower a Better Land with flicks?
Envoy.
Lord, what celestial joys may be
Or re-creations, matters nix;
Only, I pray on bended knee,
Gimme a Heaven free from flicks.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


1878 <$M/ to2B
fit
Tp’rt
/
/
WWW
X\V'
i
-//t
%
"A
1
ess
</
/ f
iS>c2
Si
TS
V/\'
//
rrrnrm
jg
1
c^.
U
A
y/
Va
£Xs
rs
?A/e;
my
iMf
TRIUMPHAL PROGRESS
M
&
WW ffMfwwwmw w w iw mmwrKm wm
' | IFTY years have passed since the
public were first invited to use the
now famous Cuticura Medicinal and
Toilet preparations. During that
time Cuticura has travelled to the
ends of the earth, making friends in
every part of the world.
To-day Cuticura celebrates its Jubilee, and
on this important milestone in our history
we take the opportunity of addressing
and thanking our millions of friends and
customers.
The great teSt of time has been applied to
Cuticura. Its extraordinary progress during
all these years is ample demonstration of the
merit of Cuticura and of the confidence and
esteem in which Cuticura Preparations are
held by the peoples of the British Empire
and indeed of the whole world.
In large cities, in busy towns, in quiet
small villages, in the moSt out-of-the-way
corners of the world, everywhere you will
find Cuticura.
Thus we are privileged to offer to our friends
and customers our hearty thanks for the
loyal support they have given us. We look
back on fifty years of business with pride,
and face the future confident in the know-
ledge that the quality of Cuticura prepara-
tions will be fully maintained.
»iy>9 vunouno HO\YS
I N
DELICATE. LASTING. ECONOMICAL.
THIS SOAP CONTAINS .
EMOLLIENT PROPERTIES I
RENDERING IT VALUABLE
. EOR SENSITIVE SKINS. /
POTTER DRUG & CHEMICAL CORPORATION,
Sole Proprietors of Cuticura Preparations •
è


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 80th June, 1927 ..£18,366,297
Directors: Sir Mark Siikujon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yauwood ; H. R. Lysagiit, 0.8. E.;
George; 0. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (36 Rundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors:
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd, James Tukb.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, ami at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every descrintion of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE, and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. . j 1,875[000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 374 197
Ordinary Shares .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,609,056
GRANTS DR AFT S A . ust „ r ?. l . ia - New
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places. ’ a ' noa '
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at interest
for fixed
periods and transacts all other usual Banking; business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve liability of shareholders
267 COLLINS STREET.
.. £2,000,000
.. 1,250,000
.. £1,250,000
. • 950,000
£2,200,000
~ 1,250,000
Head Opfice: ADELAHIE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 109 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office : 11 LEADENHALL STREET E C
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Draft? and Letters of Credit issued on London.
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Bmfst-sjdniy Provident Society
The largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Aynount Distributed for single year 1926 £2,887,200
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,893,000
Accumulated Funds £63,600,000
Annual Income £9,600,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
11. W. APPEULY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKE
actual SIZt
The cigar foi
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6(1. each
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post pnid to anj
address.
Sampler Box,
containing two
cigars, 1/- post
free.
CRAIG § AITKEN,
5548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors fo.
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
Shipping, etc,
D
i«a
*•1*1
■
-*-*=?*
ow
sS&_~_^fe=;
AL
Sc
Wl©A N A P~A- ' -
UITTf ED STATES
“EUROPE
NIAGARA
AORANGI
MAKURA
TAHITI
13.415 tons, Mar. 8 ] From Sydney for Auckland, Fiji, Honolulu, Victoria
17,491 tons, Apl. 5 J and Vancouver.
8,,075 tons, Mar. 22 ) From Sydney for Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and
7,898 tons, Apl. 19 J San Francisco.
And Fortnightly thereafter.
UNION S.S. CO., 247 George St., Sydney, and William St., Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
u ol rf«
JAVA (The Beautiful).
Monthly Sailings by the MARELLA (T. 7475) and
MALABAR (T. 5000), via the Picturesque Torres Strait.
Travel via JAVA to EUROPE, the Smooth-Water Route,
South Sea Island Tours
Regular Six-Weekly Sailings from Sydney.
New Guinea ss - montoro,
Visiting 16 Island Ports.
Solomons
S.S. MATARAM,
Visiting 24 Island
Ports.
/i.
mu
n
k
Full Particulars from-
BURNS, PHILP & COY. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE LIABILITY
££
£7,481,960
5,650,000
7,481,960
£20,613,920
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie. F.sq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Kranc B. S. Falkiner, Esa.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, H.L.C.
Auditors ; S? E. Laidley, Esq.;
ltdtil Otlice —George Street, Sydney.
General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
London Office—29 Tlireacloeedle Street, E.C. 3.
514 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, iSew Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory ol }iew Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
i iMo remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRJ-.CT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 3,950,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,428,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman; Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.;
Major-General the Hon. J. W. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.;
OWEN E. FRIEND; and Sir WILLIAM VICARS, C.B.E.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria, at Adelaide, South Australia,
and Canberra, Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other
parts of the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide ior S.A. Gulf ports;
and Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no cargo for Mackay),
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
at Townsville foi outports).
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kembla Big.
58 Margaret St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kembla Big.,
f>B Margaret St.
HAVE A NEW HOLIDAY IN
HAWAII
Break your next trip to Europe or America
without extra expense. Tropical scenery, frag-
rant flowers, luscious fruits, haunting melody
’neath moonlit palms. Outrigger canoeing, surf-
board riding, golfing, motoring, and all out-
door sports the year round. Inter-island cruises.
Volcanic spectacles. Or take a round trip
from Sydney, 8 weeks or less for about £lOO to
£l5O all expenses, allowing 3 to 4 weeks in
Hawaii and a day at Suva or Pago Pago. Good
hotels with meals 12/- to £3 per day. Ask
steamship or travel agency or write Hawaii
Tourist Bureau, Dept. 26, Box 241-D, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W., for beautifully colored booklet,
enclosing this advertisement.
ON YOUR NEXT TRIP INCLUDE
HAWAII.
BRISBANE, viaBYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
clue Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WuLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE;
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Huddart ParkerL!m
Magnirioent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LI MITE J
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
For Your Vacation
Hotel
Kosciusko
Altitude, 5000 ft. Humidity, nil.
Trout Fishing, Golf,
Mountaineering,
Tennis (day and night).
Garage accommodation avail-
able and petrol for sale.
Summer Tariff:
From 21/- per day.
£5/15/6 per week.
Bookings and further particulars
from Manager, or
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


Bells
and
Peals
Bells and Peals
MADE OF GENUINE GUNMETAL.
POSSESSING THE REAL BELL TONE.
For over 50 years Church, School and other Bells have been
made in our factories, and throughout Australia and the Islands
DANKS’ BELLS are daily ringing, and there is admiration for
their beauty of sound.
We make Angle Steel Towers for use where Belfries are not
available.
Being made in our factories, prompt delivery, free from overseas’
freight and duty charges is assured.
FULL PARTICULARS AND PRICES ON REQUEST.
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD.
i
%
&
391-403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CATALOGUE ' B"
JjBB&tnBHBMHKMKMUKBMnBMnMCIWfIKBMnnCKMUnMtMj
| DASPYLI
PLUMBERS’
AND ENGINEERS J
SUPPLIES
gfc||| j
John Danks & Son
PTV. LTD.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
WORKS FOUNUKO 1859
e
DASPYL
PLUMBERS & ENGINEERS’ SUPPLIES.
“Daspyl” Plumbers’ Lead and Brass Work holds a high
reputation throughout the Commonwealth, and every
Daspyl line carries a guarantee.
Daspyl goods fully comply with the various Board of
Works requirements.
A Two-Hundred-Page Catalogue illustrating Daspyl
Plumbers’ Brass Work and Supplies is Post Free.
JOHN DANKS &SON PTY.LTD.
H 5
M
n
391-403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
324-300 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Printers’ Union in South Aus. has
given an address and presentation to F. S.
Wallis, who joined it half a century back,
when its title was S.A. Typographical Union.
Wallis was Chief Secretary of the State
under Price and under Verran, and was in
the Leg. Council for 14 years, but he found
time to be president of his union for three
years, and secretary for 22. He is still on
its board of management.
“Coot” : Melbourne streets hold some re-
markable doubles of distinguished persons.
A leading solicitor is the image of Kipling.
A replica of G. K. Chesterton can often be
seen in Swanston-street. A Flinders-street
warehouseman, when George V. was visiting
Melbourne, was so like the then Duke of
York that on several occasions he was
mobbed, the crowd thinking they had dis-
covered H.R.H. strolling about incog. Of
our own celebrities “Pompey” Elliott has a
double employed on the tramways. I have
never seen a duplicate of Billy Hughes.
J. Iv. Merritt, who has decided to get out
of Victorian politics after 15 years in the
Upper House, was never a keen Parliamen-
tarian, even when honorary Minister for 20
months, in Lawson’s first Cabinet. In his
spare time he is a lay canon, and this role
seems to suit him better than that of legis-
lator. Six years ago he stood up manfully
to the minions of Cold Tea when they tried
to bounce him into disagreeing with fellow-
Cabineteers over making the Licenses Reduc-
tion Board arbiter of liquor licensing until
local-option polls are resumed in 1930 (if
then).
Colonel Vilhelm Larsen, Vice-Consul for
Denmark in Brisbane for many years, at
present paying a visit to his native land, has
been made a Knight of Dannebrog, one of
the oldest orders of chivalry in existence.
A pleasant chap and a fine musician, Larsen
has been a popular figure for years in
Southern Queensland, where there is a
virile little Danish community, with its own
society, which celebrates annually. His
military life was mostly associated with the
old Moreton Regiment, Queensland’s senior
infantry militia corps in pre-Federation
days. He did a lot towards organising and
improving the north State’s military bands.
“G.8.L.” : The centenary of the invention
of the propeller was recently celebrated in
Vienna, wdiere it is claimed that a forester
named Joseph Ressel was the first man to
conceive the idea of replacing paddles in
ships with this form of motive power, though
it was left for English engineers to apply
the screw-propulsion method to ocean-going
vessels. Which recalls that in 1853 Aus-
tralian explorer Thomas Mitchell visited
England, taking with him a propeller which
he had devised on the principle of the
boomerang. His invention was successfully
tested on the Queen’s yacht and on a battle-
ship of the period. In the rooms of the
Pioneers’ Club in Sydney may be seen a
model of Mitchell’s propeller.
“Buen Humor”: Amusing evidence of
want of faith in safe deposits, strong-rooms
and the like has been furnished by a retired
jeweller living in St. Kilda (Vic.). Return-
ing home after a night at the theatre, the
family found the place well lighted-up, and
the lady of the house came face to face with
a burglar who was carrying two suitcases
packed with clothing. Sikes dropped his
bundle and escaped. Then it was found
that all the jewellery had been taken out of
an old trunk under the bed. The treasure
trove comprised 250 rings and a gold watch,
all that was left of a former stock; this had
been in the trunk under the bed for a num-
ber of years. It was insured for f 1000; but
fancy a jeweller, of all people, preferring
to hide his valuables in a boot trunk in
preference to a steel and concrete vault!
SUSPENDED LIABILITIES.
“Gee, I am in debt. I bought six pairs of
silk stockings last month.”
“Up to your ears, eh?”
“Oh no; but well past the knees.”
Jimmy McColl, who recently passed the
84th mile-post, has outlived most of those
with whom he was associated in the Vie.
Assembly before he became a Senator. First
elected in ’B6, when Gillies and Deakin
headed the big coalition, he managed to get
office twice, but each time the Ministry was
shortlived. Patterson included him in 1593,
and the team was ousted the following year
His turn came next in 1899 under Allan
McLean, but the Administration fell after 11
months. Each time Mac and his pals were
dislodged after an appeal to the country, and
on both occasions the hand that dealt the
blow was George Turner’s. While in the
Senate for a couple of terms McColl was an
assistant Minister. He did not pluck more
than a handful of the. plums of politics, but
the game fascinated him, and he would pro-
bably be still in the arena if the decision had
remained with him instead of with the
electors.
R. H. Allen, who has just been appointed
police-magistrate in the mellifluously-titled
tow T n of Goondiwindi, has, like most Queens-
land P.M.’s, seen a lot of his State. Rock-
hampton born, he started in the Home Sec.’s
office in Brisbane, and his first important job
was Shipping Master and Inspector of Pearl
Fisheries in Thirsty Island. Later he worked
Iris way south through the northern sugar
towns to Warwick, on the Darling Downs,
and so to his present location.
“A. 8.” : In the days before the motor-car
drove the mail-coach off the roads old Brown
was noted as the most uncommunicative
driver in Northern N.S.W. His usual reply
to a question was a grunt. One day a par-
ticularly gushing lady occupied the seat
beside him. Brown grunted in response to
all her remarks, until she espied a rabbit
beside the road. “Look at the rabbit, Mr.
Brown,” she gurgled. “It’s gone into a log.”
“Hum!” Brown replied. Then, after a
pause, “Must be a hole in it.”
“The Welkin”: Tell “Coot” that the gun-
ners were not to blame for making a poor
job of sinking the clipper Lightning (B.
19/1/’2S). Neither were the 32-pounder
guns. Many shells found their mark; in
fact, they plugged holes all over one side
of her. But in so doing they burst the
SOMETHING TO FILL THE BILL.
“I want a book—something uplifting.”
“What about ‘The Last Days of Pompeii’?”
“What did he die of?”
“An eruption, Ma’am.”
tightly compressed bales of wmol with which
the Lightning was loaded, with the result
that as fast as holes were made in her they
w’ere plugged by the swollen wool. The
clipper was burnt to the water’s edge along
with some of the finest merino wool that this
country has ever produced.
“Leo Lear”: Mount Gambier owes very
little to Lieutenant James Grant (B
l/2/’2B) ; all that officer did for it was t«
name the peak as he sailed past. This wai
in 1800. The locality was not really “dis-
covered” until 40 years later. The South
Australian of Aug. 2, 1842, has the follow-
ing: “It is with unfeigned pleasure that we
have to announce the discovery of a splendid
tract of new country within the province....
Mt. Gambier and Mt. Scliank, both situated
here, are found to be extinct volcanoes, the
former having five craters, each filled with
water.”
“Sea Nomad”: The looking-glass of the
Torres Strait islander took incalculable labor
to make. It was a flat stone, with the
middle ground out like a saucer. This grind-
ing was done with other but harder stones,
the hollowed portion being gradually pow-
dered away. The finished job had a per-
fectly smooth surface. This was thickly
painted with the black, well-burned husk of
the cocoanut, and the shallow basin was
then filled with clear water. It gave back
quite a good reflection, and was pored over
for hours by the village sheiks and belles
when preparing for a dance. In the old
days the men seldom used it for shaving,
as they preferred to let their whiskers grow
in long, black ringlets, divided into three
and decorated with alligator and shark teeth.
Since the white man came, however, the
fashion has been scraps of broken looking-
glass and clean shaves.
“E.S.S.”: Who says there is not material
for the movies in Australia? I’ve known
better thrills on bush tracks than I have
ever seen on the screen. Take the wild
race with bush-fires. On the Glen Wills line
(Vic.) in Feb., 1905. a coach, its load, three
horses and an unlucky swagman picked up
on the road were burnt to death—caught in
broad sheets of flame that suddenly leaped
over the road and enveloped them. Then
take floods. A coach on the way to Tiboo-
burra (N.S.W.) was swept away in a roar-
ing creek, and all the horses were drowned :
but. the nice girl, the centre of the picture,
escaped on a floating log that landed her
on the bank miles lower down. There she got
lost, but eventually was picked up by a
boundary-rider. Once, on a N.-T. track, the
coach, driver and passengers were lost for
months, and when at last discovered, a long
way off the road, they were all dead. And
coaching is but one of a hundred moving-
picture subjects in our land. Of “cowboys”
we have plenty, revelling among wild cattle,
brumbies and buffaloes, also among wild
donkeys and wild camels; and you will find
lassoers enough, catching and branding in
the open on South Aus. runs. There are
also at least two big pictures, of historical
interest, in Eureka and Lambing Flat, in-
cluding the pet American features of saloons
and dancing girls; while the Murray ship-
ping in the boom days ought to provide a
dozen subjects. Take one: the great race
for the Government prize for the first ship
to navigate the long river, when Bill Ran-
dell, a bushman, built his own ship at Man-
num, and nearly won the race. Another
river thriller was provided by Captain
Hughie King when he steamed overland in a
big flood, landed goods at a squattage home-
stead far back from the river, and then got
lost in the bush —the only instance of a ship
being bushed I know 7 of—to be finally piloted
back to the channel by a whaler found in a
tree-top. And yet that American scenario-
writer imported by the Carrolls said she
could find no material in Australia suitable
for the pictures except horse-racing.


FERRODOR
ANTI-
CORROSIVE
PAINT
THE MOST SATISFACTORY WEATHERPROOF
PAINT FOR INDUSTRIAL AND DOMESTIC USE
Perfectly Protects all Iron, Steel and Woodwork from Pust and Corrosion
FERRODOR PAINT has won its place in the front rank of weather-proofing
materials. It affords absolute protection from the attacks of the weather. It successfully
resists sun and rain, salt air and chemical fumes. Its wonderful elastic properties enable
it to expand in hot weather and contract in cold weather, so that it will not blister,
crack or peel.
FERRODOR PAINT has been used successfully on many large jobs, and has proven
beyond doubt its ability to withstand the weather, one coating in one case on record
lasting 22 years without re-painting!
FERRODOR PAINT is packed in paste form to eliminate waste —you only mix
what is required—and there are twenty colors to choose from.
Some of the jobs on which FERRODOR PAINT has been used: —
GASWORKS - - - The Gas Purifiers at Bathurst Gas-
works were painted, with Ferrodor
Paint 20 years ago, and up to date
have not been repainted, nor do they
yet need repainting.
STEEL FACTORY CHIMNEYS One painting with Ferrodor Paint
has been giving every satisfaction on
a large steel chimney 1 25ft. high and
6ft. in diameter at Messrs. Tooheys,
Ltd., Brewery.
WHEAT SILOS ------- Ferrodor Paint has been used on the
huge Terminal Silos at Glebe Island.
These do not yet need repainting.
RAILWAY WORK The N.S.W. Government Railways
are large purchasers of Ferrodor
Paint for use on bridge girders, over-
head standards, etc., which are ex-
posed to the weather.
Some of the Users of FERRODOR PAINT: —
N.S.W. Government Railways
N.S.W. Public Works Department
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Australian Glass Manufacturing Co.
Sulphide Corporation, Ltd.
Silver ton Tramway Co., Ltd.
Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell Fertilizers, Ltd.
Cresco Fertilizers
Mt. Lyell Chemical Co.
Cuming, Smith and Co.
Tooth & Co., Ltd.
Taronga Park Trust
Color Card and Full Information Sent Free on Request
WILLIAM ADAMS € COMPANY
LI m ITED—/
SYDNEY. ..
BRISBANE.
PERTH...
. 175 Clarence Street.
Edward & Mary Streets.
33-35 King Street.
MELBOURNE. . 521-523 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE. .. . 157 Waymouth Street.
NEWCASTLE. . 17 Bolton Street.


BROWNING AUTOMATIC
è
£9/9/-
~ POST FREE.
New Improved Model
12 Gauge.
5 Shots as fast
as you can pull the trigger.
HERE IS THE IDEAL GUN. Quick as Iphtnuig. Easy to handle. Can
be taken apart in a few seconds; and is ABSOLUTELY RELIABLE and
hits harder than a double-barrel Shot Gun. There are no restrictions in
the use of these guns.
é
Gun & Cartridge
Makers,
318 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne
Welcome the Coming—Speed the Parting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S BITTER ALE,
Ask for Them by Name—Keep in a Cool Spot.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON. [3
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Gothic was no match for Limerick in the
spring, but he won the 31st Futurity Stakes
at Caulfield on Saturday like a really good
horse. Sol Green’s importation looked a
picture, and was always favorite ; he touched
5 to 4, but receded to 7 to 4 with the back-
ing of Sans Culotte (5 to 2). Amounis
(4 to 1) and Cromwell (7 to 1) also had
friends, but Avant Courier, who had failed
badly the previous Wednesday at the Valley,
drifted to 14 to 1. It was SR) to 1 and better
the other four.
Reed tried to steal the race with Sans
Culotte, the filly being four lengths clear
at one stage. But approaching the turn for
home Gothic made a fast run on the out-
side, and once in the straight he caught
the three-year-old, who started to move about
a bit when the whip was applied. There
was no longer any doubt about the result,
and Gothic ran home a length ahead of the
filly, with Avant Courier a length and a half
further back. The son of Tracery—
Sundrilla was ridden with perfect judgment
by Pike; the time, lmin. 26sec., was a
course record for seven furlongs.
Medmenham (9 to 4) started a good day
for backers—four favorites were successful
—when she landed the. St. Clair Trial by a
neck from Gallantry (5 to 1). Lagune
was a poor third. The Godby clan _ again
did its money on Stalden (3 to 1) in the
Alma Stakes, but Scarlet’s son gave them a
good run for it; it was only by a neck that
he failed to reach E. M. Pearce’s Star War-
den (12 to 1), a fine-looking colt by Great
Star —Castellane.
For the Woodcliff ll furlongs,
betting took a wide range. Kellow’s mare
Valwyne finished up favorite at 9 to 2, but
Spear Maiden (11 to 2), Textile (6 to 1),
Mountain Prince (7 to 1) and Nawallali (8
to 1) had plenty of friends. Beppinsan (15
to 1) made all the running, with Valwyne
trailing h-er most of the way. Beppinsan
blew out in the straight; Valwyne, on the
other hand, won well by a couple of lengths
from Imitator (15 to 1), who came from a
long way behind and whose finishing run
was the talk of the course, Diamond Plume
being half a length further back. Valwyne,
who is trained by Jack Holt, and was ridden
by Duncan, is in the Australian Cup with
7st. 131 b. .....
The Stanley Plate, an eight-furlong affair
for three-year-olds, was taken by Chariot (6
to 1) after a great tussle with Black
Duchess (7 to 2). Honors, however, were
with the Sydney filly, who was hampered in
the straight and was then only beaten in the
last stride; she was giving her conqueror
171 b. The Sydney people got their money
back and a lot more, thanks to Chrystal’s
success—her second—in the Hawksburn
Handicap. Favorite at t to 2, the little
grey mare, who was ridden by Harold Jones,
hit the front at the distance, and in a thrill-
ing finish defeated Lady Thrill (1— to 1)
bv a head and the South Australian mare
Thracian Belle (12 to 1) by another neck;
Biskra —a bit unlucky in running was
fourth. The clock recorded Imm. 12jsec.
* * * *
Gothic, who should be all the better for
his profitable outing in the Futurity, is going
to be hard to beat in the Newmarket Handi-
cap at Flemington next Saturday despite Ins
9st. 101 b. Unless something sensational hap-
pens in the meantime he is pretty sure to stait
favorite. Biskra (Bst. 121 b.), who was second
last year and is in form again, Sans Culotte,
< Bst 71b.), who has won down the straight,
Lady Thrill (Bst. 31b.), Chrystal (7st.
121 b.) and. Margaux (7st. 101 b.) all threaten
danger The St. Leger looks a certainty tor
Trivalve, and it will take a good one to down
Mollison in the Sires’ Produce Stakes.
The Australian Cup has nothing in the
Spcarfelt class this year. Pilliewinkie (Ost.
71b.) won with Ost. 61b in 1026, but it is
a long time since he showed any form, l ex-
tile (9st. 31b.) has earned his weight, and
neither Spearset (Bst. 121 b.) nor Fnlford
(7st. 101 b.) can be ignored. But Imitator
(7st. 101 b.) looks the pick of the handicap.
She ran well in the last Sydney Cup, beat
Killara in the spring in a 14-furlong handi-
cap, and finished like a real stayer at the
top of her form in the Woodcliff Handicap
on Saturday. Selections :
St. Leger: Trivalve.
Essendon Stakes: Amounis.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Mollison.
Newmarket Handicap : Biskra, 1; Chrystal,
2; Gothic, 3.
Brunswick Stakes: Kalloru.
Australian Cup: Imitator, 1; Naos, 2;
Cobranveil, 3.
* * * *
Sydney punters are apt to attach too much
importance to barrier positions in six-furlong
races and the like. Because Less Noise was
on the outside at the start of the Glenfield
Handicap at Warwick Farm on Saturday,
7 to 1 was obtainable, though fours was the
opening price. Yet the mare was known to
be a smart beginner, and her recent form had
been very creditable; moreover, she had a
good jockey (Toohey) on her back. As it
happened, she was the first to begin, and
although the pony Lady Woo was in front
for a few furlongs, Less Noise took the
lead as soon as Toohey moved on her, eventu-
ally beating the English-bred Hazel Boy
(7 to 2) by a length, Colmera (12 to 1) be-
ing a close third. The six furlongs were
traversed in lmin. 13|scc. It was a smart
performance, but one that impressed the
regulars more was put up by Clear 1 light
(6 to 4 on), who won a five-furlong two-
year-old race by lengths in limn. lsec. Ibis
well-grown youngster, who may be the mak-
ings of a Newmarket or a Doncaster horse,
is owned and trained by Dick O’Connor and
was ridden by young Lillyman.
Resource (7 to 2), Bernesk and Lucy
Thrice (each 6 to 1) were most in demand
for the February Handicap, but they played
no part in the finish, which was fought out
by Lady Clara (14 to 1) Dion (7 to 1 ,
Woolita (14 to 1) and St. Eaton (20 to 1).
Lady Clara, whose first effort it was over a
distance, outstayed her opponents —no sur-
prising feat, considering that she is by
Kennaquhair —Lady Wallace. It was a race
for apprentice jockeys, and the mare gave a
lad named Douglass his first successful ride.
Carlita’s daughter, Woolita, looked a possi-
bility at the home turn, a fast run having
brought her from the rear of the field, but
she could not sustain it and was cut out of
third place by St. Eaton. The time for the
11 furlongs was excellent —2min. 181 sec. An-
other famous mare in Maltine whs repre-
sented by a winner in the last race —Jocelyn
(5 to 1), who claims Rossendale for sire.
She had nothing much to beat, but did her
task so well that she is sure to be remem-
bered when the Doncaster comes round,
especially as she is by no means strung up.
Bootlegger (6 to 1), the second horse, was
beaten" by a couple of lengths; another neck
away was King Val (10 to 1), who dwelt
at the post as usual. Triplex, the favorite,
was never sighted; he will be better suited
at Rosehill or Randwick. Jocelyn is trained
by Price, who also saddled up Casque dOr
(9 to 2), victorious in one of the two-year-
old races; McCarten rode both.
For Canterbury Park on Saturday: —
Flying Handicap: Hazel Boy; next, Gol-
den Grist.
Canterbury Handicap : Woolita ; next, .Re-
source. _ , •
Tkree-year-old Handicap : Beckwith ; next,
Vanished.
Bankstown Handicap: Royal Sun; next,
Reonui.
* * * *
“Long Dog'’: The Sydney tin-hare interest
which ow-es its existence to a “Labor” Gov-
ernment’s zeal for the working man recently
announced that it would not race on A.J.C.
dates. In spite of this public pledge, there
was a meeting at Epping on Saturday in
opposition to the A.J.C.’s affair at Warwick
Farm. Dawg punters did better than usual,
and one or two gentlemen of the ring had
to ask for time. Some of them, it is reported,
stood to lose quite 30 bob on a big event.
Another dashing bettor offered 3 to 1 Pigface
and Bullocksliver bar four, with nothing
doing for the other starters. At the previous
Epping meeting a “bookmaker” laid odds
which were as grateful to the punters as ice
in Gehenna. But when the race was over
the philanthropist was not to be found, nor,
as I write, has he been found yet. No
doubt all this will be borne in mind by the
Bavin Government when it brings in legis-
lation to control or exterminate the pore
STRAIGHT AHEAD.
“How do you find the surf?”
“By walking to it, thanks.”
man’s sport. Every other State has abolished
betting on the business, regardless of the
pore man and his queer friends.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Tommy Mclunes (lOst. 1211 b.) scored a
technical knock-out over Wally Tullipan
(list. 01b.), a Queenslander with Hebraic
features, in Sydney on Saturday night.
The sturdy Scot has no guard, and at the
start it looked as if he was to be receiver-
general, as in his match against Harms.
But in the third round Tullipan unwisely
left what is evidently a “glass” jaw in the
way of one of Scotty’s whirling rights and
went wallop for the count of nine. The new
(and startling) bell saved him. Tully was
pretty stupid during the next two sessions,
but lefts to the mouth and a rousing right
to the chin won him 'the sixth. The right
knocked Mac’s rubber gums flying, to be
dredged for by Scotty even as the bell was
sounding. The seventh and eighth were
fierce, with Tullipan’s straight hitting keep-
ing him on top; but at the end of the ninth
Tullipan was reeling and had to be guided
to his chair. He had little idea of what
he was doing in the tenth, and a smashing
right to • the jaw put him down for eight.
He staggered to his feet, but was obviously
helpless, and referee Wallis wisely steered
his large bulk between just in time to pre-
vent Mclnnes delivering what might have
been a dangerous punch.
* * * *
The cloud under which Melbourne boxing
has been laboring since the wrestling boom
was not dispelled by the inglorious display
of Don McLeod (13st. 31b.) and Charlie
Chetwynd (12st. silb.) on Saturday night.
After a few rounds of hugging Don realised
that the Englishman was harmless, and
with a right to the point sent him down and
out. Unfortunately the bell intervened, and
the weary affair dragged on through the
scheduled 12 rounds, at the end of which
Don received the prize. Welshman Bill Nich-
olas (lOst. 41b.) outpointed Jack Dale
(lOst. Sib.) in a supporting 12-rounder. Bill
adopts the Jem Mace style, and is a really
good exponent of the same.
* * , * *
“Mitt Shover”: In pursuit of his deter-
mination to stay on in America and fight
himself into his old form, Billy Grime went
up against Bobby Garcia, described as one
of the best of the “junior” lightweights, at
Baltimore, and broke even with the heavier
lad. Grime outclassed his opponent in the
matter of boxing, but Garcia, who is a .
Mexican, had more power in his punches.
Judging by the cabled accounts of the mill,
Grime would have got the decision any-
where but in America, where boxing skill
counts for less than it does elsewhere.
* * * *
“M.G.A.”: Mention of Les Darcy’s fights
with Fritz Holland recalls that Holland has
made his home in Christchurch. He runs
a sort of physical-culture school for business
men, boxing being the principal form of exer-
cise ; in addition, he is boxing instructor
at St. Andrew’s College. Also, lie is a
writer of short stories which appear in
Christchurch Sun and other Maoriland
publications, and he even has a market for
these goods in Uncle Sam’s land. Amongst
those who have passed through Fritz’s hands
at the college are two of the best middle-
weights in the Dominion —Pocock, now a
pro., and Gardiner.
Racquet and Bawl
“Itev. Knucklebone” : Deep gloom descen-
ded on the multitudinous tennis experts in
Sydney when the French visitors put the
final comether on the Australian Davis Cup
team. What reason is there to worry if,
on present form, this country has Buckley’s
hope of reaching the challenge! round? There
are better things in sport than the desire to
win at any cost, and even if Australia is
downed overseas, which is by no means a
certainty, it cannot be said, as. it was last
year, that we are funking the issue by not
entering. When one thinks that little
nations like Denmark and Czecho-Slovakia
enter valiantly every year for the fun of the
thing, it seems rather “over the fence” that
our amateur press experts should moan so
bitterly over Australia’s remote chance of
winning.
That sort of
spirit did not
inspire the
A.I.F. But
then I am
afraid very
few of that
mob were
suckled o n
tennis.
“15.30”: The comparative failure of the
Australians against the Frenchmen was
probably due less to the strain on the two
promising young juveniles than, to the in-
ability of the team to mix it with the Hauls
in backhand play. Nothing is more obvious
than the efficiency of Borotra, Brugnon and
Boussus in this department of the game.
The two older men outclassed our fellows
in their frequently overcut but sure back-
hand slaps, and it was pathetic to sec the
Australians hitting the ball back to the
Parisian backhand instead of attacking the
forehand, where a concentrated campaign
might have brought more fruitful results. As
a matter of fact, both Borotra and Brugnon
are less reliable on the forehand than on
the backhand. This is a peculiarity of
good backhanders. It is sufficiently marked
in Tilden to make his most vigilant oppo-
nents hammer away at his forehand, which
Cochet and Lacoste have done with consider-
able success.
* * * *
The match between France and Victoria
in Melbourne saw the Australians make their
best showing to date against the visitors.
The Frenchmen were victorious in the two
singles games played; Boussus downed
Mclnnes, and Borotra again beat Patterson;
the way in which he negotiated Gerald’s
sizzling services was masterly. In the
doubles Patterson, with Wertheim as a
partner, won comfortably from Brugnon and
Boussus, and, with Mclnnes’s help, downed
Borotra and Boussus. In rubbers and sets
the antagonists were equal, but the Vies,
finished a game to the good.
* * * . *
“S.T.”: The standard of S.A. tennis is
improving, and the State’s best four made
short work of the moderate Vic. team sent
to Adelaide. Hone and Rowe both beat
O’Hara Wood and Reed in the singles,
Turnbull beat each of the other pair, and
S.A. won by 10 rubbers to 2. The home
side won the women’s match also, but by so
close a margin that if one desperate 14-12
set had gone the other way the result would
have been a tie.
(Continued on page 37.)
BALLADE OF THE URBANE GAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The batsman scowls when given leg before
And sometimes bites upon a word profane;
The bowler wrings his hands in anguish sore
Who sees a “sitter” off him missed again :
Expressions that might give a parson pain
Too oft are heard where ’bailers fight for
goals ;
But ’tis a point of honor to abstain
From any such asperities at bowls.
Golfers one’s heard about who frankly swore
When drives were sliced or two-foot putts
were vain;
At snooker nobody is shown the door
Or made recipient of a “please explain”
If now and then a d—n relieves the
strain ;
E’en tennis lias temperamental souls
Who cannot aye from petulance refrain;
But all emotions are taboo at bowls.
I have mild doubts if it was so of yore
When Drake and his associates were fain
To while away a leisured hour or more
On greens, before returning to the main
To knock the stuffing out of ships of Spain
And make their hauls of Mexican pistoles.
But times have changed since good Queen
Bess’s reign—
No game to-day so decorous as bowls.
Envoy.
Suave burgesses the lightest word restrain
What time the polished orb serenely rolls
Along the verdant turf. No raising Cain
Or even looking hurt or hipped at bowls.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Terrific
'/ r.
I 7
r-
i
■i--1
SHE
rijABAUUco
SHELL—‘'OILS
iiii
Standardise on the Anti - Carbon Pair. [
iS
■■■■-
sdw
P
ss
ism
H*
***
1^
IP
3,000 Miles
in 5 Days
/ T" , HE latest record by Alan Mackay and Barney
Wood, Australia’s wonder motorists Perth
to Sydney in just under 5 days—is a magnifi-
cent tribute to DOUBLE SHELL OIL. Day
after day, in blistering heat and driving rain,
they drove their ESSEX SUPER SIX at the
rate of 600 MILES PER DAY.
Only a Perfectly Lubricated
Engine could have carried
them through*
Throughout the long gruelling journey,
DOUBLE SHELL maintained the same fault-
less lubrication which it has given to Messrs.
Mackay and Wood in all their, record-break-
ing journeys across the Australian Continent.
The British Imperial Oil Company Limited — Throughout Australia 5448


MART ELLS
BRANDY
c SfiancUfbi c QualitLj
oJjt cn/eA tftji Wo\£cl
*
j. ill
yiiijic
m
!IB|
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
The Nineteenth Hole
“The Mcllaggis” : The glad tidings having
been flashed along the cables that Bobby
Jones has passed his final law examination,
every true golfer is hoping that he will
now put aside the unessential things of life
and settle down to the stern realities. Of
course, no one will blame the lad—boys will
be boys, even in America —but it is dis-
tressing to every right-minded man to see a
young fellow of such promise frittering away
the most useful years of his life in feckless
pursuits. He has reached his self-determined
goal; let him now burn those ridiculous
old tomes—lawbooks make a gr-rand bonfire
■ —and reach for his woods and irons. He has
yet to win a British amateur championship.
* * * *
“Spoon”: The steel-shafted club is not
allowed in Britain, but that has not pre-
vented British manufacturers from shipping
vast quantities of the forbidden article to
America, where its use is permissible and
where it has a ready sale, British makers
alone possessing the secret of the welding
process which unites shaft and clubhead. And
yet, though many thousands of the rank and
file of U.S. golfers will have nothing else,
it is asserted that not one of the high-
class professionals and amateurs in America
has any time for it, preferring hickory.
The reason probably is that the steel shaft
cannot be adapted to its owner’s idiosyn-
crasies, whereas the hickory article can.
Every golfer who can play a bit knows how
much a seasoned club which he has been
able to coax to his own moods means to him.
In the steel shaft, not necessarily unbend-
ing but aloof and implacable, there is no
such fellow-feeling. It has no soul. Besides,
if things go wrong the final gratification
of smashing it to matchwood is out of the
question.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: The old question as to why
brilliant young cricketers abandon the game
as soon as they leave school or the univer-
sities has been revived in England, and the
same old reasons—except the right one —are
being advanced. The real reason is the
modern craze for six-days-a-week cricket all
through the season. No genuine amateur
who has his living to earn can afford to play
big cricket nowadays in England or else-
where. As a rule, that kind of player has
little use for tennis or bowls. He turns
naturally to a game which has some of the
virtues of cricket without its time-wasting
feature, and in which many cricketers soon
learn to become expert.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Great interest is being
taken by N.S.W. golfers in the adoption of
standard scratch scores, which are intended
to put every club player in N.S.W. on an
equitable handicap mark, on whatever course
he may play. The standard scores have been
allotted to those clubs from which appli-
cations have been received, and the task
is to be completed within the next week.
* * * *
“Colonel Damurize”: Golf is notoriously
a fosterer of initiative —as a means of enrich-
ing the vituperative aspect of the Englisl
language it is alleged to be superior to bu’
lock-driving even. A notable instance come.,
from a Queensland correspondent. The re-
cent heavy rains have made the Yeerongpilly
course near Brisbane a sort of golfing Venice,
the course being intersected by several creeks.
These are always ball-traps, but at present
are hideously expensive adjuncts to the
course. Realising this, the youth of the
neighborhood now attends the course in great
numbers, clad in bathing-suits or as much
of their equivalent as may not disturb the
equanimity of the associate members. Dif-
ferent parties have allotted themselves to
each creek, and are prepared to dive for
and return every drowning ball for a con-
sideration. An attempt by several of the
Scottish members to cut prices has been met
with a solid front. If the wet season con-
tinues it is expected that the union will
seek registration in the Arbitration Court
and file a log.
Footbrawl
“Gate”: The N.S.W. Rugby League,
which fathered the “Australian” League
Board of Control, shows an increasing desire
to devour its offspring. The Queensland
League, which was quite a harmless pup
when the thing was started, has now grown
into a hefty hound, and insists on having
as much of the bones that are going as its
one-time philosopher and friend. The ser-
pent’s tooth is a mere circumstance to this
ingratitude, so the Sydney body has threat-
ened to chuck the whole show and go on its
own, as in the glorious days of yore.. The
matter is to be considered before a final
decision is arrived at, but the pained manner
in which the recent meeting of N.S.W.
League delegates referred to the duplicity of
the Bananaland contingent suggests that
the rift in the loot is past repairing.
* * * *
“J.G.M.”: Maoriland is shocked at the
discovery that the All Blacks are to leave
for Africa on Friday, April 13. Agitated
officials are trying to liave the date of sail-
ing altei’ed to April 20.
* * * *
“S.T.”: Two veterans, Vic Richardson
(who has been captain of South Aus. at
both football and cricket) and Frank Gold-
ing, have dropped out of Adelaide football.
Both belonged to the Sturt club. Golding
who has played for 19 seasons, made a
retiring speech that was mainly a warning
against professionalism “such as they have
in Melbourne.”
“Stoush” : One hears much of the uplifting
influence of manly sports on the heathen
among whom they have been introduced, and
it is pleasant to read the evidence furnished
by the cabled account of a Rugby football
match in Tunis, where for centuries past the
only sports have been throat-cutting and
impalement. The game was between two
Tunisian teams, and when a draw was an-
nounced the spectators threw stones at the
referee and indulged in “fierce rioting,” with
many casualties. One touch of football
makes the whole world kin. But for the
cable’s indication of the precise locality, one
could fancy oneself listening to the broad-
cast account of a semi-final between South
and ’Wood, or a deciding Test match between
English and Australian Rugby League sides
on the Sydney Cricket Ground.
# * * >l*
“Outside Right”: The annual meeting of
the N.S.W. Soccer amateurs, held in Sydney
the other day, made it clear that the official
State body will have none of the League
founded last year with a view to introducing
professionalism on a recognised basis. This
show has drawn away many of the Newcastle
Association clubs, and five metropolitan
teams have thrown in their lot with it. All
the clubs concerned in the scheme have been
disqualified, and it is proposed to raise new
material and form amateur clubs in the
districts at present allotted to the intran-
sigents. The League seems to be in a rather
hopeless position. It will have ho represen-
tation in inter-State or Dominion games, and
though some of the clubs own their own
THE TEMPTER.
CADDIE: “W’y don’cher pick it up and throw it over, Mister? I won’t split on yer ”
grounds and are building on that fact to
find the money for payment to players, the
probability is that the breakaway will bring
little profit to its sponsors. We have far too
much professional sport in this country. If
the association continues on the line taken
at the annual meeting it will have the respect
of every follower of amateur sport in Aus-
tralia.
The Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: The Board of Control
guards its secrets closely. The conditions
governing the matches during the coming
English tour, though framed in December,
have only just been given to the press. All
the Tests are to be played to a finish; hours
of play will be from noon to 1.30 p.m., 2.15
to 4, and 4.15 to 6. For the games between
the visitors and the States the hours will
be the same as for Sheffield Shield matches
this season. The M.C.C. rule with regard to
covering of wickets will be in force during
the tour. The decision to play the Tests
to the dead finish of every match will be
received with something like dismay by many
cricket followers in Australia. It was hoped
that a limited time, as in the Sheffield Shield
games, with, perhaps, an all-out go for the
deciding match, as in England last season,
would be adopted. Week-long matches are no
good to a nation which has got to work for
its living.
* * * ❖
“Earbiter”: The last pathetic attempt to
obtain an additional cash payment—it is
styled an “allowance” —for the N.S.W.
amateurs with the team in M.L. has failed.
The N.S.W.C.A. notified the Board of Con-
trol that it was in favor of increasing the
155.-a-day cash payment by ten boh, and was
prepared to pay the extra money out of its
own pocket if the board felt it was too
stiff, or words to that effect. The acid
retort was that the board did not propose
to allow State associations to take : ts busi-
ness out of its hands, and that in any case
die players concerned had signed an agree-
ment to abide by the board’s conditions and
would be expected to honor their contract.
After that there was nothing left for the
friends of the amateurs but to go back into
their holes.
■•!: :|: * *
“Aunt Sally”: The spinning out of the
match between Victoria and N.S.W. in Syd-
ney (B. 22/2/’2B) led to a painful little
scene at the last meeting of the N.S.W.C.A.
One of the delegates asked in a nasty voice
whether it was true that any official had
“influenced" Ivippax, the N.S.W. skipper,
in his decision not to close his second innings.
There was a guilty silence, during which
most of the delegates recalled the unholy
row caused by “Plum” Warner’s “influenc-
ing” of the English captain in the third Test
at Leeds to send the Australians in. No
one summed up the pluck to reply, and the
question lapsed.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The Australian XI in
Maoriland narrowly escaped being beaten by
Wellington, losing G wickets in its second
innings task of getting 65 runs to win. J.
R. Badcock, an ex-Hampshire pro., caught
the visitors on a bad wicket, and once more
demonstrated the fact that Australian
cricketers who can make runs on a
damaged pitch are now as rare as bowlers
who can take advantage of one. This is
one of the blessings following on the cover-
ing of wickets, a practice which never gives
a batsman a chance to pick up bad-wicket
experience, though it is a great aid to the
box-office.
* x % #
“Aigburth”: Manchester Spouting Chro-
nicle, a print mostly devoted to League foot-
ball and the tin hare, has gained notoriety by
publishing a letter from some anonymous ass
in Sydney imploring the English selectors
to pick a confidence man or a pony urger
or something of the sort to captain the next
English eleven to visit Australia. An English
skipper, it seems, must be endowed with
“craft and low cunning” if he is going to
get the better of the local ruffians; a gentle-
man must on no account he sent, since the
species is not appreciated in Australia.
Even the Chronicle disagrees with its cor-
respondent, though it publishes his letter in
full. The unhappy captain-to-be is in for a
bad time. Though he be Bayard and Sir
Galahad rolled into one and stuck into flan-
nels, he will be regarded as a person of craft
and low cunning until his general behavior
dissipates the impression.
Olympian Blunderers
The Olympic Selection Committee has
definitely chosen a team of ten to represent
Australia at the Amsterdam Olympiad,
which opens officially on July 28. If funds
permit, the team will be added to, and a
provisional selection of those who may go
in that case has been made.
Athletes selected are Jim Carlton, the
N.S.W. schoolboy sprinter, who will tackle
the 100 and 200 metres; C. S. Stuart
(N.S.W.), whose job will be the 400 and
800 metres; G. R. Hyde (Vic.), who is to
start in the 5000 and 10,000 metres, and
W.- M. Whyte (Vic.), who will take on
the 800 and 1500 metres. The swimmers
will be Andrew Charlton —subject to a trial
to ascertain whether lie has dropped any of
his form during his absence from competi-
tion swimming for some time; Tom Boast
(Queensland), who is to look after the
backstroke swimming, and Edna Davey
(N.S.W.), holder of the women’s Australian
and State championships over the middle-
distance swims, who will compete in the 400
metres event. H. R. Pearce, of N.S.W.,
will be our representative in the sculls.
The remaining selections are A. E. Ford
(N.S.W.), bantam and featherweight
wrestler, and T. P. Bolger (Vic.), light-
weight wrestler. The provisional selections
in order of preference are Bonnie Mealing
(N.S.W.), backstroke swimmer; T. 11.
Morris (Vic.), welterweight wrestler; Doris
Thompson (Q.), breaststroke swimmer; J.
Standen and D. Gray (N.S.W.), track
cyclists ; E. M. Davidson (Vic.), high jumper ;
Miss E. Robinson (N.S.W.), track runner;
R. Grier (Q.) and E. W. Jones (W.A.),
swimmers.
There are some good men among the
chosen ten, although ten will be a very poor
numerical representation of a country like
Australia. The four runners have well earned
their places, and Charlton is a real cham-
pion, while Boast is knocking off a bit of
time in almost every event he starts in; this
Queenslander may spring a surprise at Am-
sterdam. Then Pearce is in a class of his
own as a sculler. But how on earth a cyclist
with such credentials as Standen possesses
was passed over in favor of a girl swimmer
who has been thrice beaten by a Maorilander
is beyond comprehension. He is easily the best
track amateur in sight in Australia, and for
20 years Australian cyclists have been among
the world’s best.
In the provisional selections the Goulburn
rider is placed fourth, first position being
awarded to a child swimmer, who, like all
the infant prodigies discovered by the flapper
press this season, has failed in actual races
to approach the times with which she has
been credited. This is preposterous.
The absence of R. W. Lamb, one
of 1 the fin'est road-rider's who ever
straddled a wheel, is to be deplored. The
Olympic Federation should have ignored the
wretched little coterie that turned him down,
and intimated to Lamb that it would nomi-
nate him for selection. This would have
prevented a great rider being lost to amateur
cycling and provided another probable Olym-
pic champion for this country. In the same
way the federation rejected the request of
Nick Winter, Olympic hop, step and jump
champion, to be considered for selection,
though he had not been able to take part
in the trial games through an injury from
which he has now recovered. Even worse
has been its don’t-care attitude over Dick
Eve, plain-diving champion at the last
Olympiad. An idiotic rule made him a pro-
fessional because he manages a public swim-
ming bath. An alteration of the rule to
bring it into line with that prevailing in
England and on the .Continent could cer-
tainly have been secured had the federation
moved, but it has been too tired to even
think of such a thing.
To cap everything the controlling crowd
absent-mindedly remarks that it needs about
£7OOO altogether. It has been heard to
mutter that it has £llOO in hand and will
get £2OOO from the Government if it can
raise £5OOO, and is now organising a drive
to raise the money. This when the team
ought to be on the water, with all its
arrangements made at the other end, where
some of the other competitors are already
in evidence. At the end of last week the
dreary mob of incompetents had not even
secured accommodation for the team in
Amsterdam, which is already hanging out
the “House Full” notice, if reports ai*e to be
believed. If our representatives are not
faster off the mark than the leisurely gentle-
men who are supervising the selection and
despatch of the team, Amsterdam promises
to be an ill-omened entry in the diary of
Australian athletic performance.
(Continued on page 38.)


Melbourne
Racing Carnival
Book at the Windsor, Melbourne’s quietest
and most beautifully located residential
hotel, a few minutes from all places of
public interest, shops, theatres, railways,
wharves, tourist chars-fl -bancs, etc. Hot
and cold water and telephones in all
bedrooms. Minimum tariff from 22/6
(inclusive). Room and breakfast from
15/-. Telegrams and Cables: “Tehvinsor,”
Melbourne. Manager: I) Cl. Aker.
’Phone: Central 9260.
w \HoM WtndAor
Spring St,
Mdbourn*
r
3 DQ
V
MELBOURNE
FOR THE BUSINESS MAN
■‘Scott’s” suits the business man because it is the most cen-
trally situated hotel in Melbourne—in Collins Street West—
near Railway Stations, Steamship Wharves, Warehouses and
Offices, because the service is unimpeachable, and because the
hotel is equipped with every convenience that the business
man appreciates. Direct and intercommunicating telephone',
and hot and cold water service in each bedroom.
Inclusive Tariff by day and Bed & Breakfast Rate.
Telegrams, “Scotts.” Melbourne. ’Phone: Cent. 9012(6 lines)
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
Children
enjoy
ê
it makes them
ulellandstrong
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
“Whizz”: Malcolm Campbell, the British
driver who set out to establish a new
world’s record for motor-cars on Daytona
Beach (U.S.A.), succeeded in his attempt.
Last week he drove his Blue Bird car
of 450 h.p. over the mile course, and
averaged 206.95602 m.p.li., as against
Segrave’s 203.7928 m.p.li. The beach was
rough, but with the wind behind him Qamp-
bell did the first mile at the rate of 214.79713
m.p.li., the actual time taken being 10.765ec.
Coming back against the wind, he took
18.025ec., a rate of 199.66722 m.p.li. Camp-
bell designed his car, and its special features
included a tail fin to stabilise lateral move-
ment, which Segrave found to be liis chief
difficulty. The “mystery engine,” of which
so much has been surmised, is a Napier,
like the engine installed in the winner
of the Schneider Cup race for seaplanes at
Venice last year, but not even .Campbell him-
self, it is said, knows the details of its
construction. The special staff of Admiralty
mechanics that accompanied him to America
are the sole repositories of the secret.
“Thud” : The first American attempt on
the new record ended in disaster; the Stutz
car. driven by Frank Lockhart, turned turtle
and plunged into the sea, Lockhart being
badly hurt. The Stutz was only 15ft. ,Gin.
overall, and was remarkably narrow, being
only 2ft. wide at the broadest point; this
may have been the reason for its instability.
The 16-cylinder engine was rated at 385 h.p.,
and speed was estimated in excess of 220
m.p.h. when going full out.
“Buzz”: Now that Campbell has broken
Segrave’s speed record, the Major announces
his intention of beating Campbell’s figures,
supposing they survive the American attacks
still to be launched. Segrave aims at a
speed of 230 m.p.h., and considers this could
be attained by studying the lines of body-
work rather than by increasing engine power.
Indeed he has told an interviewer that still
greater speed will be attained in the future,
when the driver will control the car by wire-
less. A queer idea, for that would abolish
the personal factor, which makes for all the
interest ain these matters. A car propelled
under such conditions would become nothing
more or less than a projectile. Students of
gunnery and ballistics might be intrigued
with the notion, but the general public would
take no more interest in it than they do in the
muzzle velocity of a .303 Mark VI L.E. rifle.
* # * iH
“Chevroford”: The motor bungalow camp
has arrived in this country. In the U.S.A.
there are over 2000 of these caravanserais
for petroliers, ranging from camps where the
only conveniences provided are a water-tap
to rows of ornate villas equipped with h.
and c. baths, electric stoves and dancing-
halls. One feature distinguishes them all,
however: the motoring party must cook and
fend for itself, though it can buy food at the
store belonging to the owner. A beginning
has been made in one or two popular resorts
in Gippsland, and the idea is bound to grow.
The best situation for the bungalow camp
is on a highway one or two miles outside a
town. The first man to plant them along the
Prince’s Highway at intervals of an average
day’s run will die a millionaire.
=!= * * #
“Kick Starter”: Two Australian motor-
cyclists, Keith McKay and Billy Galloway,
have organised and ridden in the first motor-
cycle race-meeting ever held in Britain on a
cindei track. In Britain they don’t like to
tackle anything less substantial than con-
crete for this rather ‘dangerous game, but the
idea introduced by the Australians seems to
have caught on. The enterprising pair staged
their affair in Loughborough, a little town
in Essex, and drew a crowd of 20,000, mostly
from London and the home counties. It is re-
corded that there was “a thrilling exhibition
of daring and skilful riding.” No one who
has seen much of dirt-track motor-cycling
racing will doubt this, and, given a few lively
smashes of the kind we are familiar with on
some of the Australian tracks, the game
ought to hold its own even against the tin
hare.
* * * *
“Sprocket” : The New York six days’ cycle
race, about the biggest thing of its kind in
the world, was won last week by an Ameri-
can team, Fred Spencer, winner of the U.S.
sprint championship in 1926. and C. Winter,
formerly amateur champion; they covered
2522.5 miles. Among the Australians com-
peting was R. ,1. Macnamara, who was
teamed with an Italian rider, Giorgetti, the
pair being placed fourth. Cecil Walker, who
I’odc with an American mate, Anthony Beck-
man, was eighth.
Miscellaneous
“B-Gar”: Before somebody puts in the
double-header, let me tell “Minto” (B.
l/2/’2B) of the exploit of Charlie the
Spaniard at Cloncurry (N.Q.) in 1914.
Twenty-five times he showed a pair of “bald-
ies” before passing the kip, and for the last
half-dozen spins he was laying twos. That’s
the best attempt I’ve seen at headin’ ’em.
“Crawl”: Australian followers of swim-
ming who went into raptures over the back-
stroke performances of Tom Boast, and pre-
dicted a win for Australia in this section at
the Olympiad, are feeling a bit dashed at the
news of the latest American achievement of
the kind. George Ivojac, an 18-year-old
New Yorker, swam 100 yards backstroke in
62 3-ssec. at Brooklyn. He did it in a New
York championship event, and in a 25-yards
pool. Even with the advantage of the turns
the time is astonishing. All the same, Boast
is improving so rapidly that there is no
telling what he may do. He beat Froelich
again last week, doing the 100 in lmin. Bsec.
%'% * *
“Snowdon”: “Burgee” (B. 8/2/’2B) is
slightly adrift; the Tassie had three con-
secutive wins of both Forster and Albert
cups. The little champion was again success-
ful in the races for the Albert Cup at
Sydney, but was defeated by her sister, Tassie
Too, for the Forster Cup. For the fourth
consecutive year, in short, both trophies have
been captured by the Speck’s representatives.
The Tassies were designed and built in
Hobart of Huon pine. And while some of
their N.S.W. rivals sported sails by Ratsey
Lapthorne, England’s renowned sailmakcrs,
the cost of which ran into three figures, their
own suits, which set like dreams, were the
work of Forsyth, of Hobart, and cost merely
£25 per suit.
“Spinnaker”: Tell “Burgee,” among other
things, that Tassie and Tassie Too are
owned, not by the Batt brothers, but by the
members of the Royal Yacht Club, Hobart.
“Bamboo”: The Australian Polo Council
has received a formal invitation to send
a team to America on the very generous
terms and conditions foreshadowed by a
Bulletin scribe: The Americans will pro-
vide all expenses for team, grooms and
attendants, together with 40 ponies. It is
•expected that six players will be sent; if
so, the tour will cost the princely American
polo authorities £25,000. The council is to
meet in Melbourne on March 9 to set mat-
ters in train. N.S.W.’s invitation to the
Indian Army to send over a team in June,
ponies to be provided here, has also been
accepted, and the Indian association has
requested all officers desirous of selection to
forward their names.
❖ : i : * S{C
“Third Base”: The efforts of Australian
baseballers to arouse American interest in
the game in this country are bearing fruit.
The visit of a strong Uni. team from Cali-
fornia is assured for next July, and .T.
Heydler, president of the American National
League, proposes to move at the annual
meeting of his organisation in December that
two first-class U.S. baseball sides should
tour Australia in 1930. The delay is neces-
sary in order to arrange with clubs to re-
lease their crack players, or some of them.
It is unlikely that the “inducement” will be
sufficient to bring men like “Babe” Ruth,
who writes his own ticket, or Lynford Lary,
for whose transfer from Oakland the New
P.M. HORNIBROOK, the Queensland left-
hand bowler. He was the first native-
born Bananalander to be included in an
official Australian XI—the one that
went to Maoriland in 1921.
York Yankees recently paid £20,000, a less
famous player being thrown in as a make-
weight ; still, it should not be forgotten that
the Giants and the White Sox came this
way in 1914. Personally I should be glad
to see baseball go ahead of cricket and lawn-
tennis in Australia. Unlike one of these
overdone pastimes, it doesn’t consume a week
in the playing of one match; unlike the
other, it doesn’t make young men and women
think too much of themselves.
“Hotham”: The Melbourne Thousand, the
big 130-yards handicap at the “world’s
championship” meeting in Melbourne, was
won by A. P. Robertson, off 8| yards, in
12 l-16sec. Not an astonishing perform-
ance on paper, but the track was heavy, so
much so that Miles, who tried to lower
Malone’s record of 214 sec. for the 220 —it
has stood since 1886 —could do no better
than 22 7-16 sec. Robertson got £5OO for his
win ; he is a recruit from the amateurs, hav-
ing been the crack sprinter of St. Xavier’s
College. Miles, who won all the scratch
sprints, was disqualified from starting for
TIM BANNER, the N.S.W. sprinter, who
claimed the world’s professional cham-
pionship till he was deposed by Miles
in Melbourne.
the rich prize, owing to the omission of
performances from his entry form—a piece
of forgetfulness which probably cost him
£5OO, apart from wagers.
* * * *
“Billy the Goose”: I'm dottin’ this down,
fr’m Longreach, w’ich is a bit west ,o’
“Rocky’—that ole joint, by the way, looks
as empty as a soft-drink shop on a miners’
pay-day, now all the goat stables ’as shifted
ter Sydney. I’m ’avin’ another try ter
beat the anti-dogracin’ narks; this time
it’s a sort o’ mixchure o’ w’ippet-racin’ with-
out the w’ippets and tin ’arein’ without
the tin ’ares. The lurk’s bein’ worked fer
the Rugby League carnival wot’s ter raise
the money f’r importin’ Smacker Blair fr’m
South Sydney, an’ is open ter orl sorts o’
dorgs, no size, color or breed, bein’ barred.
The present ideer’s t’ ’ave the owners stand
on the finishin’ mark and tick-tack their
pups, but it ain’t workin’ too well in the
trials, most o’ the ’ounds ’avin’ no owners—
the dorg license is erbout due. I’ve a great
lurk t’ improve the stunt, but, rememberin’
wot the wowsers did in Sydney erbout
the goats, there’s o’ny a few bin let inter
the joke. I wouldn’t give youse coves
the chat, on’y the show ’ll be over by the
time yer gets this. Every bloke on the
finishin’ mark is t’ ’ave a cat, an’ w’en
the pups line up they’re ter start twistin’
its tail. The committee is so struck with
the ideer that they’ve cancelled the engage-
ment o’ the ‘Rocky’ pipe band, which was t’
’ave played at the carnival, on the ground
that the cats ’ll make the bagpipes sooper-
floose. ’Ooray, then.
* * * *
“Lavender Bay”: The latest locality where
the tin hare proposes to dig in—this is
figurative, of course —is Singapore, of all
places in the world. A message from that
Turkish-bath spot states that a company
has been formed —or is in process of for-
mation, which is the same thing in Singa-
pore—to build a track so that 30,000 people
may enjoy the uplifting sport of which
N.S.W. has a monopoly in Australia. The
capital is to be 1,000,000 dollars, Straits
(8.57 dollars equal a quid, so you can work
it out for yourselves), and if the flotation
goes off all right 200 dogs are to be imported
from Australia. One could wish the venture
success if it resulted in the deportation of
all the tripehounds and many of their asso-
ciates from Australia, but it is improbable
that the game will catch on with the mugs
as it has done in this country. For one
thing, there are not many mugs in Singa-
pore. Anyone who imagines that he is
going to get easy money from the nobility
and gentry of all colors and breeds who in-
habit that delightful dorp is doomed to
disappointment. The gentlemen with tin
options and rubber propositions to sell are
a tough crow 7 d to tackle, even for a tin-
hare expert. As for the local equivalent of the
proletariat which has supported the game so
nobly in N.S.W., they’re capable of stealing
the hide of the tin hare itself and selling
it back to the owners next morning.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“C.Q.”: Mildura opened the largest pack-
ing shed in Australia with rejoicings the
other day. Its floor area is 28,000 square
feet. The Mildura Fruit Co-operative Co.
is its owner.
* * * *
“James B.”: The Speck can give the main-
land points in the use of local timber (B.
25/l/’2B). Two of the Launceston banks
are fitted and furnished throughout with
Tas. blackwood and Huon pine, and it would
be hard to find anything more charming and
effective. In one of them is a replica of the
old-time one-pound note, about oft. by 3ft.,
done in mosaic. Other designs arc a ship in
full sail, a whale spouting, and a cornucopia
showering down coin. Although trodden by
countless feet for nearly 50 years, they re-
main as clear as when first laid down.
* * * *
“R.8.D.”: The praise given to Yallourn
by “C.Q.” (B. 8/2/’2B) requires a little
censoring. I and other farmers have often
admired those wonderful transmission masts
conveying light and heat all over Victoria.
Yet here am I living almost underneath
those wires, with hundreds of other farmers,
and all our attempts to get this marvellous
light and power on to our farms have failed.
* * *
“W.P.D.”: One of the biggest droving
treks thus far accomplished in Australia is
the landing of 13,000 Brunette cattle on the
Moonie country, near St. George, by Victor
Cotton, with a loss of only 2 per cent., the
result of bad inoculation or cai-eless dipping.
The distance is about 1200 miles, and on some
stages the cattle w 7 ere without grass or water
for three days. They were divided into 11
mobs, with six men to each mob. The cattle
—well-bred shorthorns —arrived in good store
condition.
* * # *
“Salambo”: Adam Adamson, of Dough-
boy Bay, Stewart Island (M.L.), recently
brought to the mainland 4630 z of ambergris.
The color varies from the finest steel-grey
down to soft black unmatured, and there are
six different grades. It is valued for local
sale at £3OO. This particular ambergris
hunter generally buries his unmatured spoil
(the black) in peaty soil for three years.
It loses a quarter of its weight, but
gains tenfold in value. The hunter himself
lives in a homelike cave 28ft. in length. At
Doughboy Bay the beach itself is about a
mile long. The meeting of the tides is
supposed to be responsible for the great
ambergris finds of the past.
* * * *
“James B.” : The Geeveston Timber Co. on
the Iluon (Tas.), founded by the Geeves
family nearly 70 years ago, has closed down
after a long struggle. Timber can be
landed at any of the mainland ports from
Scandinavia or North America more cheaply
than from Tasmania. The huge works have
been dismantled, and the splendid plant
removed to W.A. Still there may be a better
time coming. A £50,000 experimental plant
has been installed on the site of the old
works to test the suitability of Tasmanian
woods for paper pulping. If the results are
satisfactory, it is intended to erect a plant
capable of making 100 tons of printing paper
per day. Large timber concessions have
been secured, and it is proposed to lay down
60 miles of rail and tramways to carry the
timber to the pulping plant.
* * * *
“Pot. Permang.”: Somebody must have
been pulling “W.l.U.’s” leg with that tale of
the silver assays which did not check (B.
15/2/’2B). In the first place the weights
used for weighing prills from silver assays
are either made of or plated with gold or
platinum, which do not rust. Secondly,
the checking and re-checking would have
been done with different apparatus by dif-
ferent operators. Thirdly, even if the weights
were duds, an analyst would have discov-
ered it long before they were out to the
tune of “many ounces to the ton.” Fourthly,
a fly could not get into the glass dust-proof
case of a balance; and should it get in when
the case was open, it could not get under
the knife edges on which the balance swings,
and “so gum up the works.” An assayer
does not use scales; he uses a balance.
* * * *
“Chevroford” The path of the Melbourne
’Bus Board, which aims at helping the trams
and trains by abolishing the motor chariot,
is beset with public opposition. The reply
to the recent wholesale closing down of
private lines is the formation of transport
clubs, which propose to provide their members
with a free lift to the city in return for a
subscription. One such show intends to run
a 10-minute service from Reservoir, member-
ship fee being 10s. a month, children half a
crown. The charge per rail is 275. The
personnel is assured from the dozens of
drivers, largely Diggers, w 7 ho were thrown
out of work by the State Bussolinis. The
rebels claim that there is nothing in the
Act to stop them.


b^o)mq6
that turned FRICTIONintoFICTION
R|M
MADE IN ZI ENGLAND
and ROLLER.
BEAMINGS
THE success that has attended the de-
signers and manufacturers of these
British Bearings is reflected in the
constant improvements in automobile
engines. Complete protection against
friction, thrust and shock has resulted in
smoother running, more economical and
longer-lived cars.
So reliable and durable have R. & M.
Bearings proved themselves for Automo-
bile application that they are used by 80
per cent, of British Motor-car Manufac-
turers.
The monster 1000-h.p. Sunbeam Car, now
in Australia, in which Major Segrave
attained the phenomenal speed of 203
m.p.h., is fitted throughout with R. & M.
British Bearings.
Insist on R. & M. Bearings—British and
Best.
Exclusive Commonwealth Agents and Distributors: —
GARDNER, WAERN 8 CO. PTY., LTD.
MELBOURNE: 481 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: Hunter Street West.
S. AUS. AGENTS: ADELAIDE HARDWARE CO.,
LTD., Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
TASMANIAN AGENTS: W. & G. GENDERS PTY.,
LTD., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO.,
LTD., BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE.
W. AUS. AGENTS (Automotive):
COVENTRY MOTOR CO.,
LTD., PERTH.
(Industrial) : FLOWER, DAVIES
AND JOHNSON, LTD., PERTH.
&A/
i a
’'as
%
i
£k
= 1
? FAGAN
JOHNSTON
Jfe-
>'f.
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
Their Uniformed Interpreters at prin-
cipal ports and stations in Europe assist
their patrons in passing Customs
examinations, registering baggage, etc.
Passages Booked by all Lines.
Travellers’ Cheques Issued.
Insurance of Baggage Effected.
Escorted Tours to Europe, etc.
Empire Farmers’ Tour Great Britain.
Inclusive Independent Tours.
Summer Holiday Tours.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
e
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
PLENTYo/RUBBER
IJ.S.ROYAL CORDS
£dO°°°o
irl *- RUBBER TREES
-p3
The United States Rubber Company, builders of U.S. ROYAL
CORDS, owns 10,000,000 rubber trees in Sumatra. So it
doesn’t have to stint the rubber.
Furthermore, by an exclusive process, demanding a unique
plant, the web fabric of every ROYAL CORD is IMPREG-
NATED with sprayed rubber latex.
ROYAL CORDS live abnormally long lives, because there
is plenty of the right kind of rubber in every point of wear
and strain, whether the point is visible or invisible.
U.S. ROYAL CORDS
DISTRIBUTORS:
UNITED STATES RUBBER CO. (A/sia) LTD.
439 KENT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone M 2031 (4 lines).
VERY GOOD NEWS FOR POLO PLAYERS
New Shipments of
CANES & STICKS
After a shortage extending
over two years we are now
able to supply all our usual
lines and several new ones.
HOLBROW GOLD LABEL
TAPERED STICKS.
HOLBROW PALE MALACCA
STICKS, so popular with Ameri-
can players.
HOLBROW SPLICED MALACCA
STICKS, nicely balanced with
the whip low down. '
LONDON-MADE SHORT-JOINTED TAPERED
WELL-BALANCED STICKS.
WALTHER SPECIAL STICKS, in Root Tapered, Short Jointed Tapered,
Straight Moonah or Red Malacca.
BATES PATENT POLO HELMETS & SOLA PITH HELMETS.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET AND PRICE LIST.
m
*
/3Pk
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD.,
POLO SPECIALISTS,
395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Legal Notice.
NOTICE TO CLAIMANTS.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme
Court of the State of Victoria made in
the Action 1927 Number 1153 in which
Arthur Pelham Chase is Plaintiff and Minnie
Layton and William Grazebrook Layton are
defendants the persons claiming to be next-
of-kin of LOUISA GRAZEBROOK formerly
of Yarraville in the State of Victoria but late
of Dandaloo Panton Hill in the said State
spinster deceased who died on the sixth day
of April 1927 are by their solicitors or
personally on or before the sixteenth day of
March 192 S to come in and prove their
claims at the office of the Chief Clerk Law
Courts William Street Melbourne or in
default thereof they will be peremptorily
excluded from the benefit of the said Order.
The thirtieth day of March 1928 at eleven
o’clock in the forenoon at the said Office is
appointed for adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated the 14th day of February one
thousand nine hundred and twenty-eight.
M. M. PHILLIPS.
(Stamp 5/- cancelled.) Chief Clerk.
All communications in respect of the claims
should be sent to HAMILTON, WYNNE
AND RIDDELL of 60 Market Street, Mel-
bourne, the Solicitors for the Executor of
the Will of the said deceased.
Legal Notice.
TO ALBERT ERIC LIONEL HODGENS,
formerly of Hutt Street, Adelaide, in
the State of South Australia, laborer: TAKE
NOTICE that a citation bearing date the 7th
day of January, 1925, has been issued out
of the Supreme Court of South Australia,
citing you to appear and answer the petition
of John Cyril Murray, of Mount Bryan, in
the said State, pastoralist, praying for dis-
solution of his marriage with Kathleen Eliza
Murray. In default of your not appearing
you will not be allowed to address the Court,
and the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition proved in due course of law and
pronounce sentence thereon your absence
notwithstanding.
And TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that
for the purpose aforesaid you are within
twenty days from this publication to attend
in person or by your solicitor at the office
of the Master, Supreme Court, Victoria
Square, Adelaide, and there to enter an
appearance as provided by the rules in that
behalf.
Dated this 20th day of February, 1928.
W. A. MAGAREY,
City Chambers, 16 Pirie Street,
Adelaide, South Australia.
Petitioner’s Solicitor—
F. B. Mcßbyde, Deputy-Master.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
I
:
an
iiifli
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
'Eick! T}mhr/^\
From an old English recipe,
perfected by 60 years of Aus-
tralian experience, Swallow
and Ariell’s Plum Puddings are
made. Their richness, fruiti-
ness and delicious flavor have
made them first favorite in
Australian homes for over half
a century.
ASK YOUR GROCER.
RwaUi^m&fCbujMif
DELICIOUS
PLUM PUDDINGS
m
'lVhereoer'l/ouT/rads "
UNRIVALLED Accommo-
dation at this Modern
Hotel. Rebuilt at an expendi-
ture of £lOO,OOO.
RYFRS’
HOTEL WINDSOR
Three minutes from Circular
Quay and Central Railway
Station, in the heart of Theatre-
land.
MODERATE TARIFF.
Hot & Cold Water in Every Room.
Tel: City 6901, MA 1814.
Corner Castlereagh and Park
Streets, Sydney.
Telephone reservations made.
Melbourne
Chatter
The weather luck of the V.A.T.C. jyas in
on Saturday. The G.-G. was there with her
Ex., a symphony in frock and millinery of
wine-fed velvet with additions of fitch fur.
.Covers were laid in the v.-r. suite for about
20 for luncheon at the Stonehavens’ bidding.
Lady Hilda. Keith Falconer topped all-pearl
raiment with a felt hat of the same shade;
Lady Moira Lyttleton, who is a guest at
Federal Government House along with her
husband, was in ensemble of navy with fac-
ings of white, a skirt border of lattice design
in black and white strewn with red and
blue flowers. It was only in the felt hats
that any new note of fashion was struck.
Premier Hogan’s wife came in all saxe
blue with borderings of squirrel fur. Mrs.
Norman Falkiner’s cornflower-blue frock
featured accordeon pleats ; her hat was felt
of the vivid shade. An English visitor, Mrs.
Prescott, was also of the all blues. Mrs.
Norman Clapperton wore a summery gown
with a speckled pattern thereon of early
autumn coloring, topped by millinery of nut-
meg tone. Mrs. Walter Brunton was a
smartly clad Sydneysider; and Mrs. Eric
Harrison’s toque of rainbow hues caught the
sunlight above a beige coat. Mrs. E. M.
Pearce, wearing navy crepe de Chine and
biscuit georgette, received congratulations on
Star Warden’s win and the near feat of
Lady Thrill. Phyllis Walsh was arrayed in
covering spotted in navy and white ; Margaret
Nicholson led fashion among the youthful
punters with a green striped jumper sports
suit topped by a close-fitting crimson hat
decked with a flat feather mount. Captain
and Mrs. Dawson, the John Winter Irvings,
the Noil Lawrence couple, Mrs. T. A. Tabart
and daughter Edna were amid the usuals.
The most beautiful among the brute creation
was the coal black Gothic, winner of the
Futurity Stakes.
The amphitheatre at Kooyong, where the
French tennis-players made their farewell
appearance on Saturday, showed a forest of
parasols, with cretonne variety first favorite,
that were only furled with the loud speaker’s
announcement of “play.” There was a
preponderance of red in the millinery. The
State Governor and Lady Somers were
among those who saw Patterson and Mclnnes
boat Borotra and Boussus in three straight
sets; all the players seemed tired. After
their victory the winners strolled off to the
club house, while girleens with autograph-
books and fountain-pens descended on the
vanquished and courteous Gauis.
The nymphs from neighboring States and
the Shivery Isles who competed in the
swimming championships twirled in the syn-
copated measures of one-step and hesitation-
waltz at a welcoming hop given by the W.
Marston couple at their home at Essendon
last week. The hostess, who is president of
the Victorian Ladies’ Amateur Swimming
Association, wore a robe of black velvet;
daughter Emmie was clad in soft draperies
of petunia-pink hue. Mrs. Millar (M.L.),
Mrs. W. Chambers (N.S.W.) and Miss T.
Brunnicli (Queensland), who accompanied
their respective teams, chose upholstery of
black relieved with some sparkle of beads;
Miss M. Williams (W.A.) sported raiment
of pink tone gleaned from a sunset.
Last year, when the J. N. Dunns’ daughter
Queenie came home to Ballarat after a long
absence, her friends combined to give her
a warm welcome, for she had pluckily
battled through adversity to the haven of
success. When the war left her amongst
its widows she went to America and pre-
sently became an inspector of public kinder-
gartens in Chicago. Part of her duties
consisted in visiting parents and talking-
over the small family’s progress. A wealthy
widower, one Gerald Garner Grant, has per-
suaded the lady to take a second plunge into
matrimony and mother his three children.
After selling their house and preparing
for a lengthy tour of tlie East, the Henry
Rosenthal couple have come to a sudden halt.
Their pretty and clever eldest daughter, Elva,
met with a bad accident when out riding,
receiving a concussion that kept a leading
medico in close attendance for three days.
The latest accounts were more hopeful, as
the victim has youth and health on her side.
Though a full house at Melbourne
King’s on Saturday night was still in doubt
at the final curtain why “Thark” was sup-
posed to be haunted, there was a cordial
welcome for the new Ben Travers comedy.
Jane Comfort, who manages to retain some
old-time dignity as Lady Benbow, despite
her ultra-modern monocle, displays two even-
ing gowns draped to the left hip with buckle
and bow. Both are golden, one flecked with
the same sparkling thread, and the other
having radiating lines of diamente. Her
evening coat of ivory brocade scattered witli
blossoms of nasturtium hues is distinctly
fetching. Helene Simon wears, among other
coverings, a dainty black chiffon frock moun-
ted on cherry color that is glimpsed beneath
a bronze-gold coat allied to an Oriental-
modelled toque. Beth Mackey, daughter of
the Mackey lady of this city, got quite a
reception; her few months on the profes-
sional stage have done wonders for her.
Minnie Rayner, as Mrs. Frush, the dame of
much money and little education, has wonder-
ful clothes, lots of feathers and sparkling
tiaras. The Gaud Mayor and the Morell
lady were of the r.-s. patrons ; Mrs. Pitt was
in her usual box with a party; the John
Taits and some of their family were below :
opposite the Tallis lady had some friends.
In the d.c. was sighted Betty Ross Clarke,
whose evening wrap had collar and cuffs of
leopard-skin: next Saturday her company
opens in “Tarnish” at the Princess Theatre.
Mrs. Kingley Baillieu, whose gold frock - was
visible beneath an apple-green coat, was
with her mother, Mrs. Lavers. Professor
and Mrs. Osborne (Dr. Ethel), Mrs. G.
Henderson, Mrs. 11. L. Cohen and her daugh-
ter. the Ilennessy lady and her daughter
Valerie, and the W. Bates couple were
other first-night patrons.
Mrs. Jeff Tomlins, who recently lost her
husband, is leaving her home at Kcw for
an extended health trip abroad; daughter
Violet will accompany her. The pair will
break their journey in Canada before cross-
ing to Europe. Miss Tomlins has been over
the ground before with her sister, Mrs.
Oscar Nell.
The Hugh Bullivants have left Wirrmya
and the Cathay will carry off the lady to
Paris, where a young daughter has been
receiving a few years of educational polish,
r d is now ready for Australia, home and
debutancy.
There was not a large gallery on Wednes-
day at Moonee Valley races, and it proved
largely an outsiders’ day, but the weather
was beautiful. Mrs. Clive Pratt and Mrs.
W. Pultehoy Mein essayed to pick win-
ners together, and Dr. ,T. Merrillees was there
with his wife, who wore a reseda-green coat
over a biscuit-toned frock allied to a har-
monising felt hat. Mrs. A. Crozier displayed
a bit of cherry color to brighten up a
sapphire-blue gown and hat; Mrs. A. R.
Lempriere, Mona Officer, the Rogers Thom-
sons, Mrs. Kewney, the Sam Whiteheads and
Mrs. J. B. McArthur were others who
enjoyed something equivalent to a day in the
country on this picturesque course.
The sportsmanlike young woman pictured
here by Dickinson-Monteatli is Lorn a Emb-
ling, one of the
members o f
the feminine
hunting set
who recently
have taken up
polo. She and
her mother,
Mrs. E. T.
E m b 1 i n g,
another keen
follower of the
hunt, have put
their know-
ledge of horses
and riding to
practical use
by establishing
a school in
which the
younger
generation arc
taught to fly
the fences.
Miss Embling
is an enthusiastic motorist, and when she
is not putting a horse over five-barred gates
she is likely to be found looking for bad
roads and steep hills at the wheel of a tiny
Citroen.
The 300 auxiliary workers of the Queen
Victoria Hospital met under the shade of
the palms on Henley lawns on Thursday
afternoon at the invitation of the president,
the city’s Mayoress, Mrs. W. M. Robins and
Mrs. Corrie Gardner, hon. treasurer. The
gathering discussed past activities and future
interests, with intervals for tea to the accom-
paniment of the orchestra from the Blind
Institute. Mrs. Norman Brookes, who occu-
pies the presidential chair of the Q.V.H., clad
in amber-toned georgette with embroideries
in varied coloring and blending millinery,
took the opportunity of bidding au revoir
to the helpers who, since the formation of the
auxiliary, have contributed £llOO in cash to
the institution as well as necessaries and
comforts for the patients. The Morell lady
wore attractive covering of black with a
dash of white, supplemented with a mole
wrap.
The M. L. Larkin matron has received the
glad tidings from her artist daughter in
London that two pieces of Cornwall from
the young Victorian’s brush have been accep-
ted by the committee of the New Burlington
Gallery. Both are well on view, one being
hung on the coveted line.
The Charles Coles and their two daughters
will board the Mooltan for Colombo, there
to entrust Cissie, their elder girl, to the
matrimonial keeping of Roderick G rewar.
The newly-weds will make their home in
Ceylon. The depleted Cole family will re-
turn by way of Penang and the Straits
Settlements, arriving home about May.
Lionel Lindsay’s group of water-colors, with
its peeps at Italy and Spain, forms a fas-
cinating exhibit on the walls of the New
Gallery. The first public viewing on the
21st saw the red seal of purchase affixed to
many colorful bits. Society gathered hi force
on the opening day to cast an approving eye
upon the pictures, among those present being
Mrs. Russell Grimwnde, Mrs. C. .1. Ahern
and her daughter Kathleen, and Mrs. Stuart
Brunton and her daughter. There were also
several brother painters to extend the glad
hand of congratulation to Lionel, and Charlie
Wheeler collected some of the fraternity to
celebrate the occasion later.
The dark-hair,ed maiden who has not
bobbed, shin-
gled or bingled
is Lorna llcid,
whoso musical
mono 1o gu e s
and songs at
the piano are
enjoyed b y a
wide circle.
Vivacious,
talented and a
well-grounded
musician, she
is ever in de-
mand for con
certs and en-
tertainments,
and has a
growing con-
nection as a
teacher of her
special art.
Lafayett e
made the por-
trait.
The grey Presbyterian Kirk at Toorak
took on a festive air on Wednesday evening
when a bevy of well-wishers came from
Esscndon to see the R. H. Gilberts’ eldest
girl, Bonnie, link her lot with Donald, youn-
gest son of the J. H. Hendersons, of Denili-
quin. The bride floated altarwards on the
paternal arm, followed by sisters Jessie and
Edna, Jean Showers and the bridegroom’s
sister Mary. Her frock was of beaded georg-
ette fashioned in the double effect, and the
billows of tulle were surmounted by mother’s
lace veil caught with orange blossom. The
’maids were in apricot georgette made with
full skirts on the uneven principle, and silk
hats to match. After the ceremony Mrs.
Gilbert dispensed hospitality at No. 9 Dar-
ling-street. The newly-weds will start house-
keeping at Deniliquin.
• A trio of nice girls clad in georgette of
the shade of the early shoots of spring,
with interludes of feathery lace, attended
Sylvia, the younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. W. Bates, of Deepdene, when she took
Philip Kelynack for better or worse. The
bride’s raiment was a combination of deli-
cate pink, ivory georgette and silver lace,
top-dressed with lots of white tulle that
formed a train looked after by her two small
nephews. The ceremony Avas an evening one,
the subsequent celebrations being held at the
Bates home, Larino. The bride’s mother
wore black and white scattered with rhine-
stones.
The official opening of the so-called British
Trade Show at the Exhibition was a combina-
tion of evensong and tea-meeting de luxe ; but
the folk who paid to come in got merely musi-
cal sustenance. The stage-managers had scat-
tered invitations around for the supplementary
feast, and guests in glad-rags and much
shirt-front partook of supper at 10 o’clock.
Most of the remarks by the G.-G. and
Robert Knox, who likewise waded through
page after page of notes, were heard only
by those who stayed at home and “listened
in,” for companies of Boy Scouts stampeded
into a gallery during the addresses. There
were two hymns afterwards, which occa-
sioned some diversity of opinion whether
the audience should participate seated or
standing, but everybody arose for the can’t-
be-done-without Hallelujah Chorus, finely
Avarbled by a massed choir of 1000 voices
with the support of the University sym-
phony orchestra. The religious atmosphere
was maintained by the inclusion of Stan-
ford’s “Festival Te Deum” and the “Hosanna”
of Weelkes, Dr. Floyd waving the baton over
St. Paul's choir; a slight breakaway occur-
red in Elgar’s “Pomp and Circumstance”
by the instrumentalists conducted by Ber-
nard Heinze. An interlude was the pre-
sentation of what looked like a miniature
gold lion to his Ex. to commemorate the
getting-together of British goods manufac-
tured outside Australia. The Mayoress,
Mrs. Robert Knox, Mrs. H. L. Setchell,
wife of the acting senior British Trade Com-
missioner, the Clarke lady, numerous near
feminine relatives of politicians, and wives
and daughters of the various consuls were
among the evening-gowned group in the gal-
lery, who later joined their menfolk at the
festive board.
The birth of a daughter to the John
Canning couple of Hawkes Bay, M.L., has
made grandparents of medical knight James
Barrett and his lady. The new arrival’s
proud mother was Bertha Barrett.
Back to Melbourne last week by the
Mooltan came Mary Emmerton after a four
years’ jaunt around Europe. She will keep
her aunt, Mrs. Harry Emmerton, company
when the chatelaine of Raveloe loses the
Norman Brookes couple and their trio of
schoolgirl daughters. Prior to leaving for
foreign parts, Miss Emmerton did valued
service as lion, secretary of the Free Kinder-
garten Union.
Federal Covernment House heard the
annual summing-up of the R.A.N. Friendly
Union of Sailors’ Wives and Mothers. Lady
Stonehaven presided. The hon. secretary, Mrs.
Laurence Hill, reported all things satisfac-
tory, and the hon. treasurer, Mrs. N. G.
Musther, announced a healthy bank balance
of £93, thanks chiefly to a couple of hops
staged at Flinders Naval Depot last year.
Among other office-bearers of the union arc
Rear-Admiral Napier’s lady (president),
Mrs. L. S. Bracegirdle and Mrs. J. I’.
Stevenson (vice-presidents), and Mrs. W.
Trevaskis (assistant hon. secretary).
When Mrs. Beatrice Colby, of Bloemfon-
tein, South Africa, was here a couple of
years ago on a world’s tour with her son
P. 11. Manners she made a host of friends.
So did the young man, who was on his way
to study law at Cambridge, and who won
considerable notice as an amateur photo-
grapher and rather more as a speed motorist.
A bad smash-up in Sydney seemed to
threaten the termination of his career in
the latter capacity, but a recent journal
from the land of dop and biltong makes it
clear that the young man is still breaking
records with his car in the intervals of
taking his legal fences. Last year he secured
the London-to-Land’s End trial gold medal,
and he had gained the silver medal the year
before. He has twice collected the highest
awards for the Land’s End-John o’ Groats
run; and lie led the winning Cambridge
team in the Cambridge versus Oxford
contest.
The home of the Harry Creswicks at
Irving-road is being loaned for a bridge party
and tennis tournament on the afternoon of
March 17 in aid of the Lady Northcote Free
Kindergarten, of which Mrs. Criswiek is
president. Mrs. Walter Bayles will carry
on the good work in the evening with
futhcr card-playing at her home in Clendon-
road, Toorak.
The first of the season’s dances at Brenan
Hall, St. Vincent’s Hospital, in iaid of
the institution on Saturday night next pro-
mises to be a winner. Additional attrac-
tion is being offered by the arrangement of
bridge tables; reservations may be made
on application to the nursing staff at the
hospital, or to the secretaries, James O’Neill
and James Whelan.
Bathed in golden sunshine, Molly,
daughter of Captain Baily, of Barwon
Heads, stepped into AH Saints’ Church, St.
Kilda, to become Mrs. Harold Inge. The
bridegroom, who is the only son of the i. J.
Inge couple, of St. Kilda, has a reputation
in the world of sport, besides a war record
which started on his eighteenth birthday.
His bride, who made her responses in a
choral atmosphere under the eye of Rev.
John Jones, was a picture in Limerick lace
and tulle, the bodice being demurely draped
with a fichu fastened with orange blossoms.
Bonnie Inge, just back from 12 months
abroad, was a modish maid in sea-green
silk crepe tucked in every conceivable direc-
tion. Major T. Tait was best man. There
was lunch at Menzies’. Mrs. T. H. Inge,
in gold and brown, assisted Captain Baily
with the reception. Mr. and Mrs. Harold
went gaily off for the honeymoon with a couple
of surfing boards in lieu of extra suitcases.
A particular feature of the nuptials was the
introduction of a programme of classical
music, and the exit and entrance of the
wedding party to a Bach prelude and fugue
instead of the usual joyous marches.
Norman Bayles, former member for Too-
rak, is off again to the Cold Country, with
his wife and tiny son, to see how the other
1500 visiting Australians are behaving and,
incidentally, to have a look at old haunts.
Now that he is out of Parliament Norman
enjoys life to a greater extent, and the little
lad, whose head the whole Victorian Par-
liament met in a big committee room a few
years ago to wet, is an idol and a hobby.
Norman’s dad was in the Assembly in the
history-making period between 64 and ’80:
he was Customs Minister in the short-lived
Sladen Administration.


v Oriental Pearls
Specialists in FINE PEARLS
PEARL NECKLACES
Largest Selection in Australasia.
Small Graduated Strands from £lO.
Larger Necklaces from £lOO to £5OOO.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
A selection of Loose Round Pearls of Finest
Quality is always maintained for Adding
to Customers' own Necklaces.
Mail Inquiries receive Prompt
Attention.
Five per cent. Discount for Cash,
An experienced staff attends
to the Cleaning and Re-
Stringing of Pearl
| Necklaces on
1 the premises.
WmDRUMMOND£CO
THE HOUSE FOR FINE PEARLS
\ 344-346 COLLINS S T MELBOURNE
i
m
wm
m
Tested
and found true
r J~ , HIS can be said of every Elgin,
whether of the wristlet or vest-
pocket variety. Twelve months have
been spent upon your Elgin— a whole
year of patient, painstaking craftsman-
ship—so, is it any wonder that Elgin
is conceded to be the world s standard
for watch integrity?
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
Origin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
7k? Jrade Mark in the Watch Care
A. SAUNDERS’
DISTINCTIVE JEWELLERY
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Ring, Set
Platinum, 18ct.
Gold,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£5.
A. Saunders’ Three
Diamonds, Hexa-
gon-shaped, Plati-
num-set, 18ct.
Gold Ring,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Cluster, Set
Platinum, 18ct.
Gold Ring,
£6/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold “Imperial”
Wedding Ring,
10/-
15ct. Gold,
15/-
18ct. Gold,
20/-
A. Saunders’ Diamonds Set, All-Platinum,
Jewelled Lever Watch, Silk Wristband,
£25. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Single Diamond, Hexagon-shaped,
Platinum-set, 15et. Gold Bar Brooch,
£l2/10/-
Smaller Diamond, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS’
SPECIALLY-SELECTED
DIAMONDS.
The latest designs in Diamond
Jewellery. Made in our own fac-
tory under personal supervision.
All DIAMONDS are fully cut, set
in pure platinum and 18ct. gold.
Illustrations are exact reproduc-
tions of actual articles.
A. Saunders’ Three Diamonds, Octagon-shaped,
Platinum-set, 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch,
* £2O.
1111111111111 l
SM*Q
©4
a cots
A. Saunders’ Lady s Oct. Gold Jewelled Lever
Watch, Silk Wristband,
£7/10/-
Witli Expanding Bracelet, £B/10/-
Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Three
Diamond, Octagon-
shaped, Platinum-
set, 18ct. Gold
Ring,
£l5.
A. Saunders’
Single Diamond,
Hexagon-shaped,
Platinum-set, 18ct.
Gold Ring,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Four-
Diamonds, Set
Platinum, 18ct.
Gold Ring,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Black
Onyx, Set Dia-
mond, loct. Gold
Ring,
£3/10/,
A. Saunders’ 15ct.
Gold “Imperial”
Wedding Ring,
25/-
18ct. Gold,
30/-
Heavier,
40/-
ALL ORDERS SENT PER REG. POST, FREE.
WRITE FOR OUR FREE CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
VYfILL MRS. VERONICA ALEXANDER
and her son GERARD, aged 6 years,
formerly of Broome, W.A., and Melbourne,
or anyone knowing their 'whereabouts, com-
municate with HERBERT SMITH, Solici-
tor, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CCOTT, ROBERT, who left Australia for
England in 1884, last heard of in Eng-
land 1885, his only son (Robert John Scott)
seeks his whereabouts. Any information
would be gratefully received. Further par-
ticulars supplied.
Apply to ROBERT J. BRADSHAW,
Lila Springs Station, via Bourke, New
South Wales, Australia.
jeosition Vacant.
PUBLIC LIBRARY, MUSEUM, AND ART
GALLERY OP SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
APPLICATIONS, with testimonials, will be
received until noon on Saturday, March 31, 1928,
for the position of
MUSEUM DIRECTOR.
Salary, £6OO to £7OO a year.
I ull particulars obtainable from the undersigned.
HATELY W. MARSHALL,
General Secretary.
Box 386 a G.P.0.,
Adelaide, South Australia.
A Lr : AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Ihkati
ht Mtpp&i?
When friends drop in for a
game of cards, or some music,
give them sandwiches made
with delicious Anchovette.
There’s nothing like it for 9
dainty and appetising supper.
Get a jar from your grocer to
day.
Peck’s
The
delicious
Fish Paste
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital
Issued Capital
Paid-up Capital
*lOO,OOO
49,161
30,234
w.
Directors:
''°“ n Deans, Esq. (Chairman),
r. Woodger, Esq.; S. J. Goulston,
R- G. H. Joseland, Esq.
sound tirT “ Canberra Are F «* of State Income Tax.
Sound >n Rendon,i„ I***, Ptopcrtl «, M „„
L. Q. FUSSELL, General Manager,


Under
Royal
Warrant
e
To H.ML
Kin*
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
ra
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CMAMPAOHC •
Giartesllcidsie**'
HEIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agfenta—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Gable Address —
‘‘Mum,” Sydney
Wire accommodation.
è
EXCLUSIVE - - QUIET
and with reasonable rates.
TARIFF:
Inclusive Board from. . 27/6
With bath from '• 30/-
Rooms with Breakfast from 20/
CUISINE, COMFORT AND
SERVICE UNPARALLELED.
Hot and Cold Running Water
and Telephones in every room.
Private Suites de Luxe.
Sydney’s Most Spacious Lounge.
Attached is the Famous Wentworth Cafe: Dancing Afternoon and Night.
ADDRESS: LANG STREET,
SYDNEY.
7hp centre of Queens/opds
<23
Socio/ Life-
cftsh'f
%0W
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal o
guests and their friends at au
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, wit ’h Bathroo ■-
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and ev6ry modern c
renience for the comfort of gue- .
Teleprams and Cables: Lennon’s Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5180—10 Liner
é
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
Amy Mack, whoso Nature-study books ate
known to every schoolroom m the State, wtu
plunged into widowhood last week. llu
husband, Launcelot Harrison 1 rofeseor of
Zoology at Sydney Uni., died suddenly of
cerebral lnemorrhage while on a fishing
excursion at Narooma. lie was with the
Expeditionary Forces m Mesopotamia as
Advisory Entomologist, and proved a gi -at
stumbling block to the inserts that sought
to spread disease through the British h 01 ces ,
afterwards he became first lecturer and
demonstrator and then professor in his
adopted science.
It was not till the early days of: lus
married life that young Harrison devoted
himself very seriously to research. Ills wile,
herself a botanist and deeply interested m
Nature study, spurred him even to the ex-
tent of encouraging him to give up a scien-
tific job with a city firm. W hile he burned
the midnight oil for his exams, she helped
to keep the pot boiling by her clever and
instructive pen. Not very many widows have
a memory of such perfect mateship to look
back on One of the Professor’s sisters
is a black-and-white artist and a fashion-
designer of some note. The Mack family
has many brilliant members. There s the
brother who went to Europe _ early and
became a t Harley-street specialist; there s
the Iv C brother; and there’s Louise, who
won early distinction as a prose- and verse-
writer.
One of the guests at Lady Stonehaven's
christening of the Albatross, the new ’plane-
carrier, during last week was James Ilors-
burgh, Chief Commissioner for the Northern
Territory—he and Mr. Farqubar, one of the
managers of the Commonwealth line of
steamers, shelter under the same family tree.
The Horsburgh children—a fine brood of
boys—have come down from Port Darwin to
school • and as a home lias been bought
at Bellevue Hill, it doesn’t look as if Darwin
will see very much more of the family, even
if liis job can hold the head of the house.
Singing girls and dancing girls and girls
who think they are either or bdtli are stirred
to a frenzy of practising for 1 grand opera.
Though only a few better-voiced and -trained
local girls have been.engaged for the Fuller
and J.C.W. seasons, still the wave is felt
even to- the outermost suburbs. _ If grand
opera becomes a habit, then tlicre’ll be room
for every soprano and ballet-dancer in the
country. Think of Melba, Toti Dal Monte,
Amy Castles and Pavlova; then close your
eyes and let it go again! And so for 20
minutes, morning and evening, on a conser-
vative estimate-1000. homes and 10,000 neigh-
bors find life very trying.
The Gonsalez company kicks off with old
favorite “Trovatore” on March 10 at the St.
.Tames. All-told the company will number
120, mostly Italian. But this will not pre-
vent the German “Tannhauser” and “Lohen-
grin” being presented.
The Spencer Bruntons filled the dining-
table at Gladeswood with a merry throng
to speed the Fullers on to London.
Among the farewells spread before George
Fuller’s lady were the 15-covers set at the
Macquarie Club by Mrs. Charles Regan, of
Tamwortli. Matrons only were of the party,
among them Mrs. Frank Wharton, the
principal guest’s only daughter. Surgeon
Maitland’s widow, who seldom speaks in
public, and Mrs. Matt Sawyer made a hit
with their impromptu speeches, and the
others listened-in with appreciation, inter on
waving applause with their nosegays, which
were of the same pattern as the table
decorations. From the Macquarie the party
moved off to the Australia for another Pekoe
deoch an’ doris; and here in the new lounge
on the first floor they were reinforced by
Mrs. Moriarty and Mrs. Hagarty from Mel-
bourne, the two Morrissey girls and Mrs.
Regan’s daughter Mary.
The Country Women’s Association has
taken up the ’ appeal of The Bulletin’s
pet Australian Inland Mission, and is seek-
ing the £5OOO which is necessary to secure
an aeroplane service as an attachment to
the mission’s hospital. The idea is that
each of the bush hospitals should have a
“flying doctor,” whose ’plane would give
him a wide radius; at the back of it is the
patriotic thought that only by providing
medical services can the big spaces be made
really liveable. The Country Women’s
Association’s campaign for the premised
amount will start at a meeting at the
Town Hall at 11 on Thursday morning.
When Ruby Rich slams the front door of
her flat at the Astor and faces Europe this
week Sydney will lose one of its completest
club women. The Feminist Club will mourn
her loss, and the Racial Hygiene Circle will
find it hard to match her enthusiasm and cool
ability. The National Council of Women
and the Kretschmann Club (Ruby is a noted
musician) will also have each a vacant c J ia i r *
Miss Rich takes out no return ticket, and the
date of her home-coming is problematic.
Still another descendant of Governor King
was married one night last week. She was
Nance, elder daughter of the Lethbridge
Kings of Manly, and her bridegroom, Gordon
Bell, was of the same waterfront. White-
frilled tulle, ankle-length and trimmed with
hand-made posies of white roses, formed the
picturesque wedding dress, which had for
accompaniments an old-fashioned posy of
white roses and an enveloping white tulle
veil. Cherie King, in a froth of pale pink
lace and georgette, was in attendance; and
later the Pacific Hotel spread the loaves and
fishes.
Just as this Letter slips into the post
Vivienne Manchee is trailing her shining
white raiment up the aisle of St. Philip’s on
Church Hill, with a view to becoming Mrs.
Ronald Hunter. Sister Marjory and Jessie
Hunter,, in dryad-like greens, are stepping
after her, while Bishop D’Arcy Irvine waits
to tie the knot. Both the bride and her
doctor-groom are of Moree's best-known.
St. Paul’s within the Uni; staged its first
wedding reception one night last week. The
knot-tying in the College Chapel which pre-
ceded the flutter linked Mollie Hassall, of
Mosman, to R. W. A. Mackay, a former stu-
dent. and now a lecturer of the hoary and
academic pile. The bride, in a shimmer of
satin and a cobwebby veil and train, was
attended by two maids in palest pink and
two in pale-blue georgette frocks topped out
of compliment to Bert Hinkler by aviator
caps of the same hue. To balance the
bridesmaids the male supports included three
groomsmen in addition to best-man Ken
Lawrence.
St. Philip’s, on Church Hill, is a popular
gateway to matrimony, and through it Hazel’
Watts-Browne, of Manly, stepped into the
blessed estate. The wedding garment was
of unusual splendor, for glittering the whole
length of one satin side was a bird of para-
dise embroidered in rhinestones and silver.
Limerick lace, not-out after a century’s run
added a mellow grace to the bride’s armful
of fragrant red roses. Her two young
married sisters were matrons of honor in
primrose and petal-pink georgettes, while
bridegroom’s sister Joyce Piper ’maided in
a swirl of sea-greens. Dr. Keith Piper, of
Tamworth, claimed the bride; and Mrs.
Watts-Browne later did the honors at the
Wentworth.
Mrs. Lyster Ormsby, the lady alongside, is
known from Bradley’s Head to Bondi as “The
lady of the jumble.” Year in, year out, she
collects the rejected clothes of the better-
off and sells them to the hard-up of the
poorer districts for a few pence a garment.
The few pence,
swollen magic-
ally to pounds,
g o into the
coffers of the
Girls’ Realm
Guild. This
guild helps the
struggling girl
artist and stu-
dent, pays for
tuition, and
keeps her going
till her argo-
sies come
home. Soup
kitchens for
poor school-
kiddies are
another of
Mrs. Ormsby’s
good works.
The National
Council of
Women, Fur-
lough House—the holiday home for soldiers’
wives’ children—and the Girl Guides find m
her a never-tiring worker and a great money
raiser. The picture is from May Moores
studio.
St. Stephen’s bloomed even as the Garden
of Eden for the marriage of Holly Tarrant,
now of Bellevue Hill but previously of
Springsure (Q.). Up an avenue of pink and
white gladioli looped by trailing greenery
the bride passed in her white georgettes and
Honiton lace to link up with Gerald Burke,
also of Queensland. Two attendants, one m
lilac the other in gold chiffon, added color
to the group. Later Mrs. Tarrant hostessed
in black and amethyst frocking of notable
design.
Muriel McHutchison, daughter of one of
the members of the law firm of Sly and
Russell, is to marry Max Tutin, a young
Sydney business man, midway through next
month; and Clifton Gardens has been busy
partying her. One outsize party ot the
week was at the J. W. Beemans—the elder
daughter of that household is promised to
Malcolm, the McHutclnson boy who has fol-
lowed father’s footsteps into the law.
R. MacArthur Beaton, a young English;
man who arrived in Sydney by way ot lnji
and spends the time left over from industrial
research work in cheering up the lot ot the
poor kiddies of Surry Hills, is to marry
Eileen Bryant, of Turramurra, a kinder-
garten teacher at Milton College.
The budding Siddoiis in this May Moore
picture is Beryl Jackson, of Lindfield, daugh-
ter of Francis,
the widely-
known master
of languages at
Sydney Gram-
mar and high
authority on
English litera-
ture 1 . Beryl
inherits her
father’s love
of Shakspeare,
and has ap-
peared success-
fully with
tli e Sydney
Grammar
Dramatic
Society and
th e Players’
Club, and is
now to play
with the
S h a k s p eare
Society. Sh e
will be Maria in the society’s coming produc-
tion of “Twelfth Night.”
Pattie Denyer, the late well-beloved
Walter’s only daughter, goes off this week
to marry her young English officer at Simla.
Mother goes with her; and the party will
include Pattie’s chum and bridesmaid, Marion
Spring. It won’t be their first journeying
together. They saw much of Europe in
company two or there years ago.
The Australian Art Society reached
another birthday on Monday when Deputy-
Chief Inspector of Schools Thomas gave
its second exhibition a blessing. The show,
mostly work of the younger artists, is in
the Education Gallery, and there’s an early-
morning freshness about most of it. Pretty
dark-haired Tempe Manning shows feeling
for Old Sydney in her glimpses of the fast-
disappearing relics. Dora .Turret s at once
delicate-toned and boldly-drawn work catches
the eye, while John D. Moore makes the
lily pond at Centennial Park a place of a
hundred little songs. In between scales
singing-teacher Nevill Smith has painted a
stretch of Balmoral Beach; and a really
typical girl of the bush and the beach smiles
through the eyes of Fischer’s Australian
nymph. On the opening afternoon music
lent its color, and the brilliant and birdlike
notes of Gwladys Edwards, Mrs. Devenport
and Mrs. Gurr (they were all of a soprano
lightness) made the gallery sound like an
aviary. The show lasts till March 5.
On top of the collapse of Sydney’s Reper-
tory comes the as yet misty plan of Dr.
Ludwig, of Vienna, to start an Art theatre
in Sydney The doctor, who claims to have
been associated with the great European pro-
ducer Rinehart, wishes to present Shakspeare
to us in a setting that at once has atmo-
sphere and dignity. Maxim Gorky, Gals-
worthy and Bernard Shaw are other play-
wrights on his list. The doctor has produced
the Passion Play, too- —only at Salzburg he
hastily explains—and there would be a
splendid opportunity, for a presentation of
this soul-stirring drama either just before
or after the Eucharistic Congress. lhe
Feminists welcomed the stranger one after-
noon last week, with Prof. Bailey as inter-
preter wherever necessary.
“Scotch Road Hogs!” cried the Evening
News in a recent headline. But why pick
on Caledonia?
The cats aren’t in it with the Con. at the
moment. Every fiddle and ’cello in Mac-
quarie-street is being tuned and screwed and
tried in long-drawn-out wails against the
dates of the opening concerts of the year.
The first public appearance of the orchestra
is dated for March 14, but the String Quar-
tet gets in a week earlier.
Even* the chef at the Australia was im-
pressed by the Morrissey-Shannon wedding.
A hot wedding-breakfast of eight courses for
a regiment of guests is as exhilarating to him
as a loop-tlie-loop speedway to a motor-fiend.
Sydney’s upper crust wasn’t surprised by
the application,of Ernest Watt for an order
for restitution of conjugal rights. Mrs. Watt,
who before she was the wife and war-widow
of Captain Prowse was Bertha Brady, a
daughter of the just-dead Potts Point doctor,
settled down in London a few years ago, and,
so the husband claims, steadfastly refused
his Sydney domicile as a home. The divorce
Judge made the usual order.
The Ugly Nightdress is the subject for
some time-worn jests in “The Girl Friend” —
can’t say “on,” because she’s too clever to
appear with the squarehead garment envelop-
ing her. Woollies-next-the-skin to
provide the humorist with Rolls Royces. Yet,
as a matter of fact, woollen undies aren't
nearly as humorous as chiffons or georgette.
Imagine Helen of Avoirdupois in a thistle-
down transparency that displays with sly
candor every crease and bulge of the too-
plump form beneath! But to get back to the
play, quite the most exciting exhibition is the
pyjama ballet. One girl has a jumper and
pants of white lace banded in fur, and every
transparent material ever manufactured is
used to make up the remainder of the
polychromatic display.
Probably never except at Conference have
so many Methodist parsons met in Sydney as
were in the Town Hall to listen to the Ton-
gan Boys’ Choir. This is under the direction
of the Methodist Mission, and the youths—
line specimens of 18 and 19 —are all divinity
students, about to take up the work of lay
preachers. Smooth as satin tin* great
bronzed shoulders rose from the full-dress of
colorful grasses and beads. Magnificent teeth
Hashed, and great eyes glowed as the chon-
broke into its first number: “Come to the
Fair.” It sounded like a gage of battle, and
one felt that Donnybrook was a mild affair
compared with the meeting the singers had
in mind. Maddeningly monotonous and in-
sistent was the beating of the skin drum as
it wove a background for the wild native
dances; and in “Taua’alo,” described as a
boat-song, there was a monotonous chanting
of baritones descriptive of the lapping of
the sea. The dances alternated between
warrior-like stampings and the grace of the
Russian ballet. Many of the postures were
like hits of an Egyptian frieze, especially m
the dance “Ma’ulu’ulu,” which is a rhythm
of gracefully weaving hands and curving
arms. The Grown Prince of Tonga, George
Taufa’ahau, is with the choir, and so is his
princess sister, who plays youthful works
like Mendelssohn’s Spring Song.
The popular Chcrniavskis, who were some-
thing in the nature of social pets when last
in Sydney, are returning; their Sydney sea-
son opens at the Conservatorium on March
17. The visit will be in the nature of a
honeymoon trip for Leo, who is bringing his
newly-made bride with him; and the wife of
Jan, who has two children, will also see
Australia for the first time.
A stirring example of the victory of
courage over misfortune was given by Joyce
Frew at King’s Hall last week. Though
quite sightless she is a brilliant musician,
and in a comprehensive programme displayed
her talents at both piano and violin. Gordon
Lavers and Henry Staell supervised her
studies; and for both instruments Joyce
holds the Associated Board’s licentiate dip-
loma. She goes soon to London to further
her studies at the Royal Academy.
Sydney’s old friend tenor John McCormack
has a new title to keep him company in his
newly bought castle in Ireland. The Pope
has created him a Count of the Holy Roman
Empire for his “devotion to Catholicism.
John is now in possession of two Papal
decorations.
What a lottery is matrimony! Take the
case of Eulalie Creer, now said to be living
with her children in a tent at Collaroy.
When the wedding took place the husband
was a commander in the Navy, and life
stretched very pleasantly ahead of the pair.
A divorce smashed the marriage, and last
week, before Justice Long-Innes, a claim for
arrears of alimony brought the whole story
before the public notice. The Commander,
out. of the service now, of course, has some
sort of small canvassing job.
The gladiolus, long neglected, is having
another day. There are garden favorites
that don’t take kindly to the nurserymens
efforts to change the color of their gowns:
but the gladiolus, though she looks so
formal, is a flighty damsel, with a passion
for new raiment. This years novelties
have included some wonderful yellows; and
for a mere half-sovereign you may get at
least the promise of a bulb of Desert Gold
for your next planting. And then perhaps
you’ll be sorry you didn’t take VV. H-
Phipps, the new prince among the dark ones.
T. S. Gordon, the man to whom Knight
Owen Cox relinquishes the helm of Birt and
Company whenever business or pleasure takes
him abroad, spent some years m charge ot
the company’s interests in v\ ellington
(M.L.). He’s a thin dark man whose front
hair has been blown off in a hurricane,
quick and nervous of speech, and quick but
not at all nervous in decision. As a young-
ster his ambition was to be a novelist. Once
having written a story of a sailer which he
had had direct from an old master, and hav
ing with great care seen that every maritime
detail was just so, he sent it to ii magazine.
He received, in due time, the MS. back with
the comment that as an effort of imagination
the story was promising, but that the writer
too evidently knew nothing whatever of the
sea or ships. Mr. Gordon buried with that
story his faith in editors. And that tery
afternoon he got a promotion on the grou
of combining practical knowledge of shipping
with office efficiency.


HAR5 y brqther^lxd
SPLENDID GIFTS FOR MEN
£LP
81804.,
Silver Cigarette Case, attractively
engine-turned, to hold single row
of cigarettes. Size 3J x 2$ ins.
48/-
81803.
Silver Cigarette Box, neat plain design.
To hold-
-50 cigarettes, 78/-
75 cigarettes, £5
100 cigarettes, £6
V-
o ,
'S
m
1
Is
vtv’*;g: ;
•■A'•/(>',.•
ii
If
■■
w
81806.
Blue Fine Seal Tobacco Pouch,
lined oiled silk, with two
silver corners. Size, folded as
in lower illustration, 0$ x 2$
inches.
23/-
Unmounted design, 18/-
81802.
Silver Barrel Match-
box with Steel
Striker, tin. in
diameter. Will take
box of wax matches.
13/-
Five Per Cent. Discount Allowed, for Cash.
Hardy's Kew Catalogue will be sent, post free, to any address.
2*B-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE,
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD
< 3Ji£ < 7fou&c oP&tUuswc^eiPcllay
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
IJ6-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
CAIRO AND PYRAMIDS
An added attraction to the Orient Line Mail
route is the Cairo Excursion, which at a
moderate fare affords passengers an opportunity
of visiting Cairo, the Pyramids and Sphinx
during the passage through the Suez Canal.
Mfll« Rf
'mm
VA
NATIVE BOATS ON THE NILE
Uii
2*4*6 SPRING STREET* * SYDNEY
The Little Sisters
QUEENSLAND.
T . Brisbane.
Lady Goodwin opened the new home of the
District Nursing Association at Milton.
Lean de Witt Batty did the welcoming, and
i. rs ‘ C. Abraham presented the opening
key. Mauve asters and tulle dressed up the
tea-tables in the nurses’ sitting-room, and
Merna Gillies arranged the musical pro-
gramme, to which Doreen Morgan was a con-
tributor. Mrs. T. C. Abraham was in figured
Shantung, and Mayoress .Tolly wore mastic
and shell-pink. Lady Beatrice Moreton, Mrs.
de Witt Batty and Mrs. Cowlishaw were
amongst the large gathering.
Mrs. M. Forrest’s only child, Kathleen
Mary, announces her engagement to Will
Pearson, the young Irish tenor of whose
voice great things are predicted by the
musical world. Dublin born, he served with
the British Army, was severely wounded
during the Dublin rising, and later came to
Australia to join his brother, who had been
through the East African campaign. The
marriage will take place shortly, and the
young couple will probably settle in Sydney.
At S.t. John’s Cathedral on Feb. 18, Dr.
Hugh Anderson, son of the late I)r. 11.
Anderson and of Mrs. Anderson, Boonali,
took Marion Zeller, daughter of the J. A.
Zellers, of Brigalow, for his own in a
setting of pink and white dahlias and
daffodils with bunches of white roses to
mark the guests’ pews. Dean de Witt Batty
tied the knot. .The bride, given away by her
father, was in ivory marietta over silver
lame ; the train of white crepe de Chine was
lined with pale pink. Nell Knowles, in
blue mariette, ’maided, and Irene Caught and
Marie Stott, in salmon pink, were train-
bearers. Mr. D. L. Stevenson, Toowoomba,
best manned. The National saw the feasting
against a background of blue and gold. Mrs.
J. A. Zeller received in black mariette,
carrying a posy of crimson roses. A scarlet
evening coat of mariette was worn by the
bride on her departure from the reception.
The honeymoon will be spent on the North-
ern Rivers, and at Sydney and Kosciusko.
At St. James’s, Toowoomba, on Feb. 21,
Lawrence Rutledge, of Warnbin, Quilpie, was
married to Lyndall, eldest daughter of Mr.
Alex. McPhie and the late Mrs. McPhie, of
Toowoomba. The bride, who was given away
by her father, wore an elegantly-draped frock
of deep-cream satin. A train was of Brus-
sels point lace over silk tulle, a Brussels
point-lace veil was caught to the head with
a cluster of orange blossom. She carried an
armlet of frangipanni, stephanotis and
orchids. The four bridesmaids, Alison Mc-
Phie, Page Freshney, Gwen Rofe and Elfrida
Walsh, wore graceful gowns of water-melon
pink chiffon. The reception was held at
the bride’s home, and the honeymoon is
being spent on a trip to Colombo.
Mrs. Firmin McKinnon, president of the
Lyceum Club, gave an at-home to the mem-
bers to enable them to meet Mrs. Surrey
Dane and Miss Chave Collisson. Mrs.
McKinnon wore floral-silk jersey, Mrs. Sur-
rey Dane was in ivory point lace, Miss
Collisson wearing floral ninon. Oriental-
tinted zinnias decked the rooms. Amongst
the guests was Freda Bage, just back from
Melbourne, Mrs. J. J. Stable, Winifred
Moore and Catherine McGregor.
The Count di San Marzano will be wel-
coming his wife and infant son back from
Italy early in March. They will live at
Chelsea, New Farm.
The condition of the weather has held
all sports fixtures in Brisbane and turned
Albion Park Racecourse into a lagoon.
Fullers have bought the old Town Hall for
a theatre. The Mirthmakers at Cremorne
have filled houses, despite the downpour, and
“The Alarm Clock” reopens His Majesty’s.
Lennon’s saw a dinner-dance for the
officers of the Nirvana, given by Mr. O. J.
Lansdowne. Crimson and pink roses deco-
rated.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
An old Hobart personality, Mrs. Words-
worth James, has been paying us a visit and
renewing old friendships and associations.
Mrs. James, who has lately lost her husband
and eldest son, now lives in Sydney with her
second son, Colonel Tristram James.
The lady of this portrait is Constance
Cummins, edi-
tor of the Tas-
manian Illus-
trated Mail.
.Connie took
up her job six
years ago,
when still in
her ’teens, and
has filled it
with unques-
tioned capa-
city. In 1926
she was awar-
ded the Bean
Essay prize, at
the University,
where she
studied His-
tory, English
and Political
Science. Her
theatrical criti-
cisms i n the
Mail are full
of insight.
Latrobe saw the linking up, at St. Luke’s
Church, of the Rev. W. J. and Mrs. Dod-
son’s younger chick, Lucy Margaret, with
Dr. Arthur Grounds, Elwood, Victoria The
bride wore ivory Duchess- satin, with a
family veil of lovely Limerick, from beneath
which flowed masses of tulle to form the
train. She courageously carried a bouquet
of deep red roses. Small brother Harry, in
white satin, was train-bearer. The ’maids
were Margery Oppenheim and Leila Barker,
one in powder blue, the other in pale prim-
rose. The reception was held in the Masonic
Hall, and the younger set finished up the
evening with a dance.
Yachting enthusiasts spread themselves
over the welcome to the returned victorious
Tassies at the City Hall. The three yachts,
Tassie, Tassie Too and Gumnut, were on view
in the hall with all sails set, the decks of
the two T.’s lined with their trophies, and
the diminutive Gumnut proudly sporting the
Stonehaven Cup and reminding one of a dog
with his tail well up. The little craft was
purchased by a committee of women and
presented by his Ex. to Neil Batt, the young
helmsman who steered her to victory, amid
loud cheers.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Laybourne Smith, architect for the War
Memorial in Adelaide, and part author of the
design for it, lias been explaining its “sym-
bolism.” It relies as much as possible on
sculpture, and as little as possible on archi-
tecture. The active spirit of war-time is
shown in front, a heroic-size Duty holding
a sword as cross, while a farmer, a studious
youth, and a girl catch their first glimpse
of the vision. At the back is a winged spirit
of sorrowing womanhood. “The victory to be
commemorated is not material, but spiritual.”
A small inner shrine will be lined with
bronze tablets, bearing the names of all the
fallen soldiers. The main structure will be of
Macclesfield (S.A.) marble, the steps of
Ilarcourt (Vic.) marble. The cost is to be
about £29,000, and the work is half-finished.
The site is on North-terrace, on a block cut
out of Government House grounds at the
south-eastern corner.
The Bishop of Adelaide and Mrs. Nutter
Thomas gave a shivoo at Bishopscourt, on
Monday evening. About 100 were present, all
interested in mission work, to meet the Rev.
L. Slade, who has just been appointed organ-
ising secretary of the A.B.M. in this diocese.
Friday, March 9, will see the first large
dance of the season on board the R.M.S.
Oronsay, at the Outer Harbor, given by the
managers of the Orient Line.
Mrs. Angas Johnson, her son Jimmy and
sister Mrs. Charles Dashwood have returned
from a 12 months’ tour of England and the
Continent. Their town house having been
sold, they are now ruralising with Dr. Angas
Johnson down at Port Noarlunga.
Rufus Ste Wart, open golf champion of Aus-
tralia, and T. Howard Brown, of Kooyonga
club, leave for Britain on March 1. They
were given a great send-off on Saturday even-
ing at the residence of Mr. and Mrs. J. L.
Brown.
westralFa.
Perth.
The O Grady opened the Art Society’s
annual exhibition at the Town Hall. There
were several mainland exhibitors; Alfred
Priest was represented by a portrait of G. K.
Chesterton and the allegorical “Strike
Weapon,” exhibited in the Paris Salon in
1922. Ethel Nicholls and Mrs. Harrison
each had a study, from a different viewpoint,
of a treeful back street in Hobart. Mabel
Hookey and L. Dechaineux both showed
some good work, but J. Connor would be
well advised to abandon his modernist tend-
ency. Thea Proctor and Margaret Preston
showed spme interesting woodcuts; and
Mildred Lovett and Ethel Nicholls some
capital portrait studies.
Westralia has produced its first woman
auctioneer. Mrs. T. S. Blake, for some time
the State’s only woman sworn valuator and
commissioner for declarations, has added the
wielding of the hammer to her activities.
Major and Mrs. J. S. Duffy have gone
exploring tourist tracks in China, Japan and
the Hawaiian Islands.
The Town Hall housed a farewell concert
for Signor Rasponi. Choice morsels from
grand opera were offered by the Countess
Filippini, in frills of sky-blue taffeta, by
Rigattieri and by Rasponi to Gwen Bray’s
piano accompaniment. St. Mary’s choir,
under Sydney Smith’s baton, contributed
some favorite numbers.
Mrs. Sam Elliott invited Guildford’s new
headmaster, the Rev. Freeth, and his lady to
her Cottesloe home to meet some of the boys’
parents. General Hobbs and his lady, Mrs.
and Miss Riley, Mr. and Mrs. Meecham, the
Archie Burts, Dr. and Mrs. Ivelsall and Mrs.
Manford were among those presented.
The Repertory Club gave God-speed and an
oxidised-silver tea-service and curly jarrah
card-tray to the popular Howard Buchanans,
who leave this month to make a new home
in Tasmania.
The National Bank is moving E. J.
Swain from Bunbury to Perth to manage
its Murray-street branch. Mrs. Swain, who
hails from Christchurch, M.L., was golden-
liaired Rima Young, the Pierrots’ clever
pianiste. The couple have two small daugh-
ters.
NORTHERN TERRITORY.
Darwin.
A Back-to-Childhood ball, held in the
Soldiers’ Hall, was well attended. Pro-
ceeds go to help the Church of England
funds.
Mr. E. J. Foster, senior member of the
N. T. Times proprietary, who has been ill
for many months, is going south. He has
been a member of the Times staff for 30
years or more.
Messrs. W. J. Young and D. Cl Watts
have been elected to the Advisory Council,
and Messrs. W. H. Grant and J. W. Young
appointed Government nominees. J. W.
Young, who is a son of the other Youngj
is president of the R.5.5.1.L.A.; Mr. Watts
is Mayor of Darwin; Mr. Grant is secretary
of the North Australia Meatworks Co
Whether the (unpaid) Advisory Council will
be anything more than a shadow time alone
will tell.
Does anyone want cheap horses? At the
local pound the other day one was sold for
a shilling. The motor is beating the horse
as far as Darwin is concerned. There now
are over 500 motors licensed at the local
Town Hall. For racing purposes, however
the horse is still supreme. There are nine
racing clubs registered in the N.T.


MAN
ê
NEWS
ë
‘Calcutta’
Helmet
Indian Pitb
Light and cool—well
ventilated—healthy-
and a real treat to
wear during the hot
siege of Summer. All
Sizes. White Drill
and White Puggaree
18/6
Tosf~ tyreej
Write Desk S.B.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, (Brisbane
PARIS FAIR
MAY 12 to 28, 1928.
TRAVELLERS TO EUROPE—DO NOT
MISS THIS INTERESTING EXHIBIT OF
PARISIAN INDUSTRIES!
Full particulars may be obtained from the
FRENCH TRADE COMMISSIONER,
G. BADER, Kembla Building, Margaret Street, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY,
The Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Capacity: Dining' and Supper Dances up
to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining 7.30,
12/6. Supper 10 p.m. till 1 a.m., 10/6.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 7.30 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.15 p.ra.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret afternoon and evening
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 5, 4/-;
parties of 6 upwards, 3/6.
Saturdays and holidays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M 3666.
GRIGSON WITH THE WIND UP.
By
HAROLD MERCER.
TIIE move-in was a rough push-off for
the drafts which had been hurried up
to strengthen the ranks of the First
Division, always in a weak condition since the
Paschendaele operations. The Diggers had
had a rough time at places like Pozieres and
Bullecourt and had done all that was expected
of them, and more ; but circumstances now, in
the spring of 1918, were very different. The
full-strength battalions had come to France
elated with the reputation they had won for
themselves, and filled with a confidence that
they were to win the war. It meant another
big effort worthy of supermen—a dash
through in really blood-stirring fighting that
would crumple the German lines and open
the way for the march to Berlin.
That they had been selected as the spear-
head of this history-making thrust contribu-
ted an ecstasy of ardor which silenced the fears
even of any who might have been timorous.
But by 1918 the high confidence in achieve-
ment had faded; the drudgery of the dead-
lock fighting in France under a constant
rain of shells and bombs bore heavily upon
them. There was a fingerpost near Neuve
Eglise which bore testimony to the feeling
that had grown. A jesting Australian had
found the post with a crosspiece pointing
N.N.E. on which some vaunting Tommy
had painted, “To Berlin, 1917.” The Aus-
tralian added a rearward sign which read
hopefully, “To Australia, 1918.” Then a
sardonic Digger bad come along and, con-
triving a finger which pointed groundwards,
added, “To Hell, 1919.”
Damping the hopefulness of the grievously
thinned battalions was a doubt of the quality
of the men who were coming through to
strengthen them. Australia’s supply of man-
hood at once courageous, physically magnifi-
cent and young had been exhausted. A few
boys who had just reached the age of eighteen
and eligibility had come through; the rest
of the strength was made up of recruits who
in the earlier days had been enthusiastically
rejected, and of lead-swingers who were at
last thrust forward to do their share.
In the anxiety which some of the old
hands naturally felt about how these raw
drafts would behave in conditions threaten-
ing to be worse than ever faced
before, it was a disaster to hear the
news that an old hand like Grig-
son, the nonchalant, willing
fighter of a dozen big engagements,
“had the wind up.” All the Grig-
sons were wanted at their best to
“stiffen” the newcomers.
Stevens, the platoon officer, came
along to watch his men as they
tumbled themselves and their
equipment out of the horse-truck.
Their jesting levity heartened him;
they were just the same Diggers
after all!
“Did yer see the old blanker leading the
donkey-cart with a load on it like a
house, away back there, a quarter ’n
hour ago?” asked one. “When we gave
him a cheer he' just waved his stick at
us, shouted ‘Australians!’ and round the
old codger turned his family wealth and went
’ome again. And the rest after ’im, bundles
and all. I reckon they know us Aussies are
the blokes to stop the ’Uns!”
“The platoon will line up down yonder,”
said Stevens, “taking line on number seven.
Dump your packs behind you and get into
battle order.” Then his elbow nudged Grigson,
and with that little touch he edged him away.
“What’s up with you, Corporal, he asked
jestingly. “You look down to it. Not
got the wind up?”
“I have. It’s hell!” said Grigson tersely.
The straightout confession, where a chal-
lenging denial was army etiquette, flabber-
gasted Stevens.
“That’s not like you, Tom,” he said pro-
testingly. “You and I have been in a fistful
of stunts together, and I wouldn’t have
believed anybody who said that Tom Grig-
son could show the white feather.”
“Of course I won’t!” Grigson retorted.
“But it’s hell, all the same. They’re just
using us until we’re all wiped out; making
up for other people’s mistakes mostly.
Somebody’s left a hole here, and, of course,
tjie Diggers have got to plug it. We don’t
even know where Fritz is; we’re just going
to be marched in to find him and stop him.
Hold him up whilst they re-form their
defences behind us, even if we are all wiped
out in doing it. As likely as not there’ll
be nothing left of all these by the time three
days are gone.” His arm swept in the men
who were emptying from the train and
making their way to the parade field further on.
“That’s about the size of it, Tom,” said
Stevens steadily.
“Well, by gad!” exclaimed Grigson. His
exclamation conveyed the impatience of one
who had wanted to be consoled with lies.
TT is face was white and strained, as if he
already saw death. But he said: "Well, I
suppose I can stand it as well as the next.
I’d give my both legs to be out of it, though.”
He moved along to join the others, and
the platoon officer walked with him.
“You’re abotit due for Blighty leave,”
Stevens said. “After this stunt”
“I didn’t come back till nine months ago,”
returned Grigson. “I had marriage leave
after my hospital leave. There’s no need to
bribe me, anyway. I wish to hell I was out.
of it; but I’ve always done my bit, and I’ll
do it now.”
Subsequently an idea was born in
Stevens’s mind as he watched Grigson sitting
writing a letter with his pack as a writing-
desk. He, too, felt the tragedy of the time.
It was a joyous spring day with the air like
wine and the sun shining gloriously on the
new green of the world; and the men, break-
ing from the lines they had formed, sprawled
luxuriously on the ground or squatted on
their packs, some of them munching their
rations, some smoking, but most of them
yarning and laughing. Yet they were like
yarded sheep, shortly to be marched away
to a shambles all the more tragic because
they did not know where it would be met.
Yet, with much reason for desiring to live,
Stevens felt that a death bravely met was to
be desired if death must come; and because
Grigson had always seemed a typical repre-
sentative of the Digger, his unwonted dejec-
tion worried him. Yet these others were
shaping very well. They had come evenly
through the rush south to Amiens; and the
long bombing to which they had been sub-
jected in the trains on the rush north again
had left them unshaken.
Stevens made his way to the railside cot-
EVEN A CURATE HAS HIS STIRRING MOMENTS.
tage which had been converted into a tem-
porary headquarters, to see if he could glean
any news about the move forward; and he
shortly came back with a sprightly step sig-
nalling afar off to platoon-sergeant Hennessy.
“There’s a memo come through in orders
for Corporal Grigson,” he said. “His wife’s
had a son. Tell him.”
The move came quickly when it was made.
The men were suddenly called to attention,
formed into fours and marched off to the
unknown battle scene, 150 paces between
each platoon to avoid observation and artil
lery fire, leaving their packs just where they
had dumped them. Stevens dropped back
from the head of his own bunch and casually
drew tip alongside Grigson. He was glad to
be greeted by the old gay grin.
“Well, I’ll have to give Fritz the kid’s
compliments now,” said the corporal with a
laugh. “Thanks for letting me have the
news, sir.”
“Why didn’t you tell me you were worry-
ing about the missus?” said Stevens. “I
would have understood. We’ve been cobbers
for a long time, Tom—you might have told
me.”
“It never occurred to me.” returned Grig-
son with a laugh. “Anyway, it’s all right
now. When a man’s a father he feels that
he’s got something extra to fight for!
His laugh came unrestrained, careless,
dauntless. Stevens as he went ahead again
felt that it vibrated a new spirit of resolution
in the platoon behind him.
And, after all, the action was less terrible
than was anticipated. It had a slow intro-
duction. The Germans had overrun them-
selves, getting ahead of their artillery sup-
port ; and the Australian prestige was great.
Although the orders were to dig in and con-
solidate on contact with the enemy, the first
halt, under a very sporadic long-distance re-
sistance, was not the final. The advanced
Germans fell back, and the line was advanced
and formed with some degree of certainty
along the railway-line before the Germans
attacked again. They were beaten as much
by a reputation established in a sequence of
great battles as by actual fire.
It was anything but a picnic, though. The
men had to lie in mere depressions in the
ground, and “iron rations” —bully-beef and
biscuits —had to satisfy them for food ; but
the shell fire was not great, and was ill-
directed. And the discomforts had their com-
pensations. With their reserve battalions
well dug in by this time, the Diggers felt
they had the gap plugged.
But the machine-guns introduced a spice
of the unpleasant. For a man to move from
his hole to stretch, even when dark night
fell, was dangerous with death-dealing bul-
lets likely to be sprayed across at any
moment. The sprays, too, chipped pieces
from the ballast of the railway-line, which
stung like bullets when they were flung
against a recumbent man.
One of these guns annoyed Grigson par-
ticularly. Fie cursed it at least twenty times
as the night wore on ; and then, seeing some
shadows near, he lifted himself from his
hole and joined them, finding, as lie expected,
Stevens.
“We ought to get that chap,” he said.
“I was going to take a party out to see
if we could,” said Stevens; but he added,
as Grigson eagerly volunteered: “No, don’t
you come. No need to take risks; you
want to get back and see that kiddie.”
“Oh, hang the —I mean the kiddie is an-
other reason for me to buck in,” said Grig-
son.
The little party, after the word had been
passed round, stole over into the black-grey
night; and it was Grigson’s sharp “Down !”
which caused them to flatten just in time
to avoid the spitting hate that stung the air
above them. The agitated tut-tnt-tut of the
machine-gun seemed like a hint that their
proximity was suspected.
“I saw a spark,” whispered Grigson. “This
is where we want them. I’ll fire from time
to time here to draw them. You detour-
get round and rush them. When I hear your
Millses I’ll stop.”
The plan was good; and stifling the
inclination to waste time by protesting
against Grigson’s acceptance of danger in
concentrating the machine gunners’ fire on
himself, Stevens only waited for the spasm
of firing to die before he rose and led bis
three men to the right. They crept soft-
footed through the darkness; and just when
Stevens was wondering at the silence, he
heard the sharp crack-crack-crack of Grig-
son’s rifle. The machine-gun barked a quick
reply, and Stevens, hearing the whistle of the
fusillade to the left, pushed his men forward,
crouched low down, ready to drop if the
fire veered, but swift moving, until away on
the left he heard the murmur of voices
whispering in German, and saw dimly out-
lined the dark mound where the machine-gun
position should be. _ .
The spitting violence having died into
silence again, Stevens kept his men prone,
waiting. The wait seemed interminable ; it
appeared that the oppression of the night s
silence was sinking upon them, doping them
into sleep. And then came the sharp crack-
crack-crack of the rifle again. Right on top
of the muffled German exclamation and the
rattle of the machine-gun which followed,
Stevens hurled his bomb. His men were at
his heels as he leapt for the machine-gun
position.
It was, after all, an easy job. Dazed by
the fall of the bomb which had killed or so
badly hurt one man that he lay unconscious,
the Germans made —could make — no resist-
ance. In the rush of fiercely whispered
orders to his prisoners to carry the gun, and
in getting his little party through the con-
fused torrents of machine-gun and rifle fire
which poured from every direction, Stevens
did not realise that he was wounded —did
not realise it until they reached the depres-
sion where they had left Grigson; then a
stab in his side as he stooped and the feel
of blood on his tunic warned him.
“I-lit, Corp?” he whispered to the prostrate
man.
“Arm ripped by a bullet,” returned Grig-
son faintly, but cheerfully. “They hit me at
the first crack. I had all I could do to lift
the rifle up and fire with the left hand. It’s
a nice bliglity, anyway.”
They helped him up and back; and shortly,
both being in the category of “walking
wounded,” Stevens and lie assisted each
other on that great path which led from the
line. There a remembrance brought blank
dismay to Stevens.
“Tom,” he said, “I don’t want you to
think I. played the dirty on you. I thought
it the best to do at the time to buck you up.
There wasn’t any message about your wife
having a kiddie.”
“I know there wasn't. Jim,” said Grigson.
“I thought it a good joke when you had me
told that. You se e I haven’t got a wife!”
“But you said you had marriage leave. It
was that made me think of it.”
“So I did have marriage leave. But the
girl’s brother was killed and the marriage
had to be postponed at the last moment.”
“Good Lord !” ' ejaculated Stevens. “I
thought it was anxiety about your wife that
had made you seem windy. I” -
“I’m always windy before I go into a fight;
once I know I’m definitely in for it I’m all
right. It was the trapsing about, not know-
ing what we were going to do, got on my
nerves. Once we started to move in I was
Jake; and the joke of your me a
missus and kid helped to jolly me. What on
earth made you think so much of that
stunt?” .
There was an earnestness in Stevens s
manner as he turned to Grigson.
“You see,” he said, “I’ve just been through
the mill. I felt a dozen times while I was
waiting that I could desert and bolt back
for England; but four days ago, down at
Allonville, I heard our youngster had arrived,
and that pulled me together.”
He found Grigson’s hand gripping his.
“And now I’m going back to see my son
and heir,” added Stevens joyfully.
“And I’ve got a wedding of my own to
get over,” said Grigson with a grin.
Broken Tryst.
Young Timothy’s waiting upon the green hill
And doubt is a little sharp knife in his
breast.
“Oh, will she be cornin’? An’ has she the
will?
An’ is it in grey of the sea she’ll be
drest?”
But me I am sitting and drinking my fill
Of wine that the good folk have spilled in
the West.
The twilight has moods that are strange to
me yet:
A way that’s like goblins betwixt the
gate-bars,
A sudden black wing-way of birds in a m”.
Or creeping all hurt with the day’s bat
scars.
And one other way I can never forget—
Of walking like God with a handful of
stars.
Young Tim’ll be cursing and stamping his
feet
And tight’ning the scarf that I knitted
for him;
He doesn’t know sure, but there’s in it the
sweet
White cropse of a dream and the death of
a whim.
But me? I’ll be watching the moon on the
wheat,
And Tim can walk home —with his bold
arm round Tim !
N.E.W.
MARTINA BRABY.


oM
5 hi ::' y.~- !:h ilb efc !(// 'ifa
'zMtikim
pbjlbk
mm™
1
£
%
glSMpii'o
'i i:oja« Sis
ifiact
I
a 3 ! # i
1
m
»i r lUs*!
:l»;!:
4m
■s■
i- 2
Q.rl
(X •
mz
£2
For full figures Model 0505
very light weight. Firmly
boned at back only with
unbreakable rustlessj spiral
steels. Finished in delicate
pink coutil. This model is
made to caress the figure
rather than restrain it —it
smooths the lines and gives
the desired flat back effect.
Another view of Model 0505
for full figures. Note the
cunningly placed diagonal
boning on the abdomen
support—this gives maxi-
mum, firmness with the
minimum of weight. The
double elastic inserts over
the hips give ease and
freedom- of movement. Six
hose supporters.
Model 1211 a Wrap-Round
for slimmer figures—ideal
for sports and dancing or
every-day use. Fitted with
elastic inserts over hips
giving comfort and flexi-
bility. Finished in deli-
cate pale pink floral coutil.
Beautiful quality and work-
manship. This model affords
adequate support for the
type of figure able to wear
it. Four hose supporters.
Your Retailer
RETAILERS who realize that corsets are not a
relic of last century—that they are more
important now than ever before—that they
settle the fit and look of woman’s clothes and
the daily comfort she enjoys—these retailers will
stock *' T wilfit. ’’
if Twilfit ” Corsets are Good—they have exclu-
sive features that make them conform to fashion
very comfortably, and their workmanship, material
and finish conform to the highest standard of
British production.
Distributors for Australia:
LYALL WILLIS & CO. LTD.
London, England.
AGENTS:
Brisbane. . . Gregory & Collins.
Adelaide . . Arthur Glover.
Melbourne. Baldwin & Slattery Pty., Ltd.
Sydney. . . . Jones & Joseph, Ltd.
Perth L. M. Cullen & Co.
GREY
HAIR
WOULD
SPOIL
\
\> e
v e
\\C»
\\ e ?
IT#
"«>i. sari** 1
. 4 WA INUT
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
ACME Home outfits as illustrated are
greatly in demand for impromptu home dances.
The set comprises a 22" Bass Drum with
thumbscrew rods, nickel-plated foot pedal and
spurs complete, cymbal and clamp, Chinese
Crash cymbal with overhead holder; 1 3" Maple
shell screw-rod Side Drum and sticks, and a
folding drum stand.
Price complete
£l2/10
Other styles—
Universal Outfit No. 12 ... £l6 18 6
Eclipse Outfit £2O 0 0
Professional Outfit £29 2 6
Freights extra.
Descriptive Catalogue ' n request.
OBTAINABLE FROM ANY MUSIC.DEALER-
OR DIRECT FROM
e
When order mq pleare mention fhir pahey.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
C. 'Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Evan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE .. .. BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The Duel.
PETER was rapidly qualifying to be the
leading warrior of his tribe. He be-
longed to the coastal blacks, living
mainly on fish and turtle, and was tall,
broad and very powerful. A few months be-
fore he had proved his strength and his skill
with the spears, killing Calvert, who had
been considered the supreme artist with
them. After the killing Peter had, of course,
taken Nina, Calvert’s young lubra, who was
entirely unperturbed by the rapid matri-
monial shuffle.
Between Peter’s tribe and the Mountain
blacks there was an age-old feud, due chiefly
to the shortage of tucker. Whenever they
met there was savage fighting, which gener-
ally resulted in the routing of the coastal
blacks. Healy Burra or Crooked-foot was
the undisputed king of the Mountain tribe,
and had distinguished himself on many a
hard-fought field. Amongst others he had
killed Choocan, Peter’s brother, wounding him
first and running him down afterwards. The
coup-de-gr&ce savored of a kind of high-bred
contempt. Healy Burra had wounded him
in the shoulder at first, and, realising that
his chance was rather slight, Choocan had
fled. But Healy Burra had been too fleet
of foot, and when Choocan, exhausted, had
turned and stood at bay, instead of finishing
him off Avitli another spear Healy Burra
had broken both of his legs with a large
stone and then, after obtaining all the in-
formation possible about the movements of
the tribe, had slaughtered him like a bullock.
Choocan’s gin ran off the following night
and brought the news to Peter.
With a fine, large carelessness, Peter often
made short excursions into the Mountains
Avitli Nina only, expecting to meet Healy
Burra alone, for he was known to be a con-
firmed hatter.
Peter found living conditions in the Moun-
tains much harder than on the coast. There
were no wild cherries, or poonyoorooSj or wild
potatoes. Kangaroos were scarce and very
timid aiid he was afraid to spear a bullock
because of the vengeance of the terrible
white men. He decided to return next day,
and both walked slowly down to Settlement
Creek, feeling very hungry.
Stopping before a large tree Nina examined
the smooth Avhite bark for a moment, and
then grunted something to her lord and
master. His eyes lit up, and silently and
Avithout a word lie climbed. Reaching a
fork, he thrust his hand in quickly, and,
laughing, hauled out a ’possum. Knocking
its head against the trunk of the tree, he
dropped it to Nina. Then he descended.
With two sticks, Nina promptly got a fire
going and the odor of scorching ’possum was
soon very grateful to Peter’s nostrils. He
stretched himself lazily under the trees
fringing the waterhole, and let the woman
prepare the lunch.
Suddenly she grunted, and stirred him
with her foot. “Come up!” she murmured.
And then he knew. The man for whose
blood he was thirstitig was approaching
alone.
Peter got to his feet and seized his bundle
of spears. Rapidly he cut the strings which
bound them together, and, selecting one,
fitted the hole in the head to the point of
his womera and moved out into the open.
All his spears had jagged edges, curving
inward like shark’s teeth and specially made
for fighting. Healy Burra, on the other
hand, had only stone-headed spears, for kill-
ing cattle. The advantage therefore was
with Peter. Yet as he walked out to give
battle his heart beat rapidly. He suspected
that a large mob of Mountain blacks was
close at hand; yet such was Healy Burra’s
diabolical confidence in himself that he did
not hesitate to settle this matter by himself.
He approached silently, crouching for-
ward. In his left hand was the spear he
intended to hurl, and in his right the bundle
of reserve missiles. He advanced con-
fidently. Peter felt his enemy was getting
rather close in, and wished he would open
the game. Still he came on, treading cat-
like, his eyes shining. Now only fifteen
yards separated them, and Peter, somewhat
unnerved, began to circle round.
“What name you?” he asked his sinister
vis-a-vis.
Healy Burra vouchsafed no answer to
this ingenuous question; but as Peter pre-
tended to stumble he launched a spear, light-
ning-like and with a savage expulsion of
breath, at his objective, Peter’s stomach.
Peter smiled quietly as he straightened up
and side-stepped. Gaining more confidence,
he allowed Healy Burra to shorten the dis-
tance separating them. The latter approached
cautiously, and, crouching forward, pre-
sented the most invulnerable target pos-
sible. Suddenly the Mountain warrior made
a little run. Taken by surprise, Peter
hurled his spear prematurely. A quick inflec-
tion of the body, and Healy Burra let the
weapon sing past.
For a brief moment Peter had thought
the victory Avas his; but now his heart
sank. Healy Burra Avas not more than
tAventy feet away, and there was no escape
—one must kill the other. At the thought
of it Peter felt a deadly fear. Nina, watch-
ing complacently, had no doubt of the out-
come.
Stepping in closer and closer, Plealy Burra
glared in silent hate. If a spear Avere thrown
now without effect, the blunder would be
fatal for the thrower. Healy Burra’s arm
muscles rippled as he feinted continually,
advancing ever closer, while Peter backed
cautiously away. He dared not throw; too
much depended upon it; and with whatever
confidence he had begun the combat he noAv
realised that his enemy was infinitely more
skilful. No longer had Peter any delusions
about killing the foe. He was bent now only
on saving his skin. He had backed for over
200 yards, and was edging towards the
timber. Once there he could make a run-
ning fight of it. Burning with the lust of
killing, Healy Burra revolved all the chances
If his enemy reached the timber he, Healy
Burra, would lose much of the advantage
he felt he had gained. How could he turn
the timber to his own advantage?
Suddenly he shouted :—•
“Yo, Yio, gamptha coora, Peter!”
Never doubting for a moment that Healy
Burra’s friends were taking him in the
rear, Peter turned. Too late came Nina's
warning shout. She had transgressed the
rules of the game in an effort to save her
benjamin. Even as he turned, Peter had
sprung high in the air to avoid the spears
of his unseen enemies.
The spear had already left Healy Burra’s
hand, and sped like a winged bolt for
Peter’s stomach. The leap in the air saved
him from a fatal wound, but the stone head
entered his thigh. Stung by the success of
the trick, his nerve returned.
Ifealy Burra fitted and hurl-ed another
spear. Coolly and contemptuously Peter
swayed litliely to one side, catching it
dexterously as it sped. Nina’s eyes bright-
ened ; he might win yet.
Healy Burra came in closer and Peter
threw. It was a near thing, a very near
thing, and Healy Burra backed away for the
first time. Peter laughed as he seized the
spear in his thigh, and tore it out. The
wound was not very painful, but it bled
furiously. He realised that his only chance
was to make a short fight before he weak-
ened. He followed his opponent grimly,
abusing him for his cowardice in retreating.
Healy Burra grew angry, and stood his
ground. Striding in contemptuously, Peter
hurled three spears. All of them Healy
Burra avoided by the skin of his eye-
brows.
Once more Peter raised his right hand;
but the instant he threw, a spear left Healy
Burra’s hand. It was a new and unex-
pected manoeuvre, and was successful. Real-
ising his danger in a flash, Peter swerved
his body and dropped his right hand over his
stomach. The stone head ripped through
his forearm muscles, rendering the arm use-
less. He ground his teeth and took the
womera in his left hand. Fiercely Healy
Burra pressed forward to end the fight,
feinting rapidly, and launching spear after
spear. Peter threw feebly once; then, both
womera and spear leaving his unaccustomed
hand, lie faced his opponent manfully. He
could fight no more, and it was useless
attempting to run.
With bared teeth Healy Burra approached
to within ten feet. Seeing that the other
made no move, he spoke quietly and courte-
ously, asking him many questions. Peter
answered truthfully. The tribe was on the
coast spearing turtle for the grand corroboree
that was approaching. He had "been merely
enjoying a walk-about himself. Yes, he had
killed Calvert, and taken Nina.
Healy Burra listened with interest, and
glanced at Nina and was impressed; also he
noted the ’possum. He took the spear from
the womera, and, walking up to within a
spear’s length of Peter, drove the stone-
licaded implement into the pit of his
stomach, so that when the lance was with-
drawn the stone-head remained. Peter col-
lapsed without a cry.
“Fetch’m stone,” the victor commanded
imperiously of Nina.
Going down to the bed of the creek, the
woman returned with a heavy stone. Lift-
ing it high above his head, Healy Burra
smashed it down on Peter’s shin, smashing
the bone. Peter gave a sharp cry, and
seizing the stone hung on to it desperately.
Healy Burra wasted no time or strength in
superfluous struggle, but sent Nina for
another stone. This he raised and so
smashed the other beg. But this time his vic-
tim was mute, and the stone rolled out of
his relaxing fingers. For the third time
Healy Burra raised his hand and brought
the stone down, smashing the skull of the
vanquished.
Seizing the ’possum, Healy Burra de-
voured it at leisure and then turned to
Nina.
“Moonoo wooga inthaf”
“Yowi!”
MULHALL.
The Witch.
Listen. They piled the faggots dry
About the stake and me;
Thin snapping furze tli e burden bore
Of sticks and boughs of sycamore.
Hate set me in a place on high
And bound me to the tree.
I knew it all, I knew each stick,
Had watched the faggots grow
And don bright leaves and odorous flowers
And sat beneath their budding bowers.
Now they will feed the flames that lick
And creep and crackle so.
“A witch!” they cried, the simple fools —
“A pagan ! Let her burn !”
Because I loved the lonely lanes,
And knew the herbs to cure all pains;
Because when sunset lay in pools
I slept among the fern!
And more (the steel band round my waist
Bulls at my yellow hair),
A big dark priest stands near the pyre—
His black robe waves against the fire;
His eyes gleam from a cheek of paste.
The Devil found me fair.
“Bewitched,” the bloodless abbot said,
“Our brother we must save;
So bid him light the cleansing fire,
Destroy both mistress and desire;
In Hell shall be her marriage bed
Ere she our monk deprave.”
I hated him .... Bloav, southern wind !
My sticks and furze fire hiss.
Catch the black robe.... My arms are free!
Come, you who love me, come to me!
I scorned you free, now lam kind
And I would have your kiss!
He comes ! O God, he comes. . . .alight.. ..
And clasps the stake and me.
A long wild kiss, a mad embrace;
He stabs —a hand before my face.
Gone fire, gone fear, gone breath and sight—
Love, and my spirit free.
QUEENSLAND.
BLACK BONNET.


en
faster!
■5 £U
Ms**
%
/S
■
A
L JW-
Z3S;
w
iii& .\
W M
wwm
vam
/'V
vimmi:
* m
<s
8.8.
Style.
D.B.
Style.
A GUARANTEE ACCOMPANIES
EVERY MURDOCH SUIT-T 0-
MEASURE. Protects you against flaws
in the material —the making of suit or
imperfect fit —otherwise a new suit is
tailored free or your purchase money
refunded.
Dress with Distinction
Murdoch-tailored
HOW TIME PASSES! Easter almost here again! Happy Holidays
—Race Meetings—and the great trek to Sydney for the
Show.” Days when appraising eyes “measure you up and
judge you by the clothes you wear- —a period when Good
Clothes are vitally essential. At Murdoch s this is not expensive.
Direct Mill Trading (no middlemen’s profits) and a unique organisation
bring you INCOMPARABLE VALUES.
Murdoch’s Autumn & Winter Suiting
Purchases prove a Striking Example!
THESE Pure Wool Worsted Suitings are some of the
finest—both in inherent wearing quality and distinc-
tiveness —Murdoch’s have ever handled. All the
coming Autumn and Winter weaves and tones —original, yet
restrained. Included are superb new Oxford and Cambridge
Greys, Plum, Powder Blues, Burgundy, Wine shades, etc.
Also guaranteed Indigo Fine Navy Twill Serges, Herring-
bone or small Dice Check weaves of special merit. Such
quality would cost you pounds more elsewhere.
A Faultless S.B.
Sac Suit Made to
Murdoch 9 s High
T ailoring
Standard —
9
(D.B. Style, 5/- Extra.)
OTHER FAMOUS MURDOCH “MILL TO WEARER”
SUITING VALUES AT—
£4/4/-, £4/18/9; also Hand-finished at £6/10/-,
£7/10/-, £B/10/- and £9/10/-, in exclusive designs
and colorings.
Send this
Coupon for
FREE
Patterns
No
Obligation
Whatever.
DESK R.
Murdoch’s in
Park-street, Ltd.,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —By return mail please
send me, entirely free of any obliga-
tion, complete pattern range of the
New Autumn and Winter Suitings and
Serges, also simple measure-form outfit.
Name
Address
<29/2/’2B.
To Wear with Your New Suit —Sport a New
Hat
EXCLUSIVE ALL-AUS-
JRE FUR FELT HATS, in
as illustrated. Also ‘‘Nail
jr plain bands, or “Prince”
styles, plain bands only. All the very smartest
color tones. Silk trimmings, grease-proof
leathers. All sizes.
TV/ITJRDOCIFS E
IVI TRALIAN PL
“Snap Brim” style,
Curl,” with fancy c
Australia*
Finest
Value —
211-
Postage Paid to Your Door.
When writing kindly address your letter to Desk R.
Si
IN PARK STREET, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
“THE WORLD’S LARGEST MEN’S
AND BOYS’ WEAR STORE.”


WE ARE THE AGENTS
THE
BULLDOG
hammerless
GREAT
AT
GUN
LOY/ PRICE
THE BULLDOG is the Wonder Gun" for £B/10/-
Quadruple bolted with side clips, fluid steel barrels,
guaranteed Government tested for any charge.
It fits the shoulder perfectly, and is beautifully
balanced.
HOLLOWAYS are the Rolls Royce of English Guns.
Nothing to touch them in the field or over the traps.
World famous, £l2 to £6O.
THE FOX D.B. —YVonderful Hammerless, with or
without Ejector. They kill at remarkable distances,
£l3 and £l5.
WESTERN ARMS CO. Guns, £4 and £6. Great
Field Guns A Week’s Free Trial Given.
Obtainauie everywhere, or write the agents for
catalogue.
S. COHEN, SONS CO. PTY., LTD.,
Hardware Merchants, 562 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
Ager.ts wanted wVre not '•ayresented.
Who Saves the Money You Earn?
Do you?
Somebody must, for money doesn’t disappear into thin air. Some of
your money will be saved wisely; some of it will be spent wisely.
By whom? By you?
If you earned it, you’ve got first call on it What use are you making
of that privilege?
Think it over, and act now open a Savings Account, and save wisely
that you may do your own wise spending later on.
Commonwealth lank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
FOR ALL
EMERGENCIES'
NEVER FAIL
e
Look foe the Trademark I Apntt E««fAn«>
Write for lllustrmttd Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gi. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
LITERARY AMBITOINS.
By
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
THE tAvo newspaper reporters Billy
Pagan and Frith, who often hunted
in couples, heard of the murder as
soon as most of the police; Frith being in
an eastern police station when the call came
out from Russell-street.
“Where is it?” asked Billy. Frith did
not answer as they rushed to the railway
station and broke the law against entering
moving trains.
“A farm near Dandenong. A Russian
farmer named Sangal; a farmhand name
of Archer is suspected. He’s only had a few
hours’ start. They think the farmer Avasu t
dead when the killer ran away. It’s a good
murder —just when we wanted it.”
“You’re a ghoul, Frith.”
“Not for choice. I pipe but as the lin-
nets sing.”
* * >]: *
Billy Pagan’s memories of that day Avere
formed in the blue hills that were at closer
range dark brown and yellow and sage
green ; at the farm on the cleared uplands
bounded by forest, and the paddock on the
flat. He remembered also the unkempt
farmhouse, the dairy that spoke of brutal
people more brutalised by heavy and never-
ending work, the well in which the murderer
had thrown the victim. Subconsciously
Billy visualised the despairing wretch cry-
ing feebly from the depths, praying to gran-
ite to soften its heart, and to murder to be
pitiful; his prayers reverberating to him
from the well-arch as from a callous and im-
potent sky. Then Billy's horror Avas sub-
merged as lie traced the blood-gouts back
from the well-head to the sordid bedroom
that was a fit theatre for such beastliness.
“The murderer,” Billy Pagan confided to his
mate, “attacked Sangal in his bed—th'e
beast—with an axe, and then carried the
body to the well and threw it in. And
Sangal was not dead then—-perhaps tlie
murderer heard him crying from the well.”
“S’sssh,” said Frith. “The widow will
hear you.”
Billy Pagan lifted his glance till it rested
on the woman in the. doorway. Then he
shuddered. There was nothing of woman in
the face. It was that of a very ugly,
powerful, ruthless man —narrow of fore-
head, deep of eye, broad and short of nose,
high of cheek, the Russian Mongol. The
hair straight, thick, blue-black, coarse as a
horse’s mane; the head pyramidal, with a
great animal width of jaw; the upper lip
short, so that the flat nose and the beginning
of the mouth were almost as one. From the
lower lip to the bold promontory of a chin
was so far that the distance made the mouth
appear to mark the exact centre of the face.
The neck expressed great power—thick,
muscles as of a man who had carried great
burdens. Shoulders to heel she was bottle-
shaped—not like a champagne bottle, but
the thickened wedge of a bottle that carries
Square Face gin. Power, lust, edacity—these
marked the widow Sangal.
She looked at them for a moment, and
then retreated without a word; by and by
she returned, a detective following her, and
Frith and Billy left the room by the outer
door. They were not surprised later to see
her conducted to Dandenong, and they asked
a detective if she vvere under arrest. He
replied no, she was simply being taken to
identify Archer, who had been arrested.
In the lockup at Dandenong they found
the murderer, and a hadly frightened man
he was. A lithe young chap of medium
build and not more than 25 years old; a
shrinking man with the brown eyes of a
retriever. When he saw that frightful por-
tent of his doom —the widow —he shrieked.
“Take her away! Take her away! Don’t
let her touch me.”
“Frightened of the widow avenging her
husband,” said Frith.
“Fright or horror? I think horror,”
replied Billy. “If I were a picker of mur-
derers I’d keep her and let the man go.”
“Mustn’t let sympathy over-ride evidence,”
said the older man, judicially.
“Dat’s the feller,” said the horrible Avidow.
“Darf Argsher; he kill my osban.”
“She made me! She made me 1 Take her
away!”
Two policemen and two detectives were on
him as he jumped. Shrieking as one in
torment he was carried to his cell.
“Come aw r ay, Frith, I’m sick,” said Billy.
The older man went out with him. “You’ll
have to get a stronger stomach, laddie,” he
said kindly.
“I never will. Merely to look at that
beastly Avoman makes my blood turn to ice.
That poor frightened wretch told the truth.”
Frith shook his head, but tolerantly. Use
had dulled his senses. Experience had
standardised murder for him.
Next day Billy was ready to doubt the
completeness of Frith’s standardisation. Ther-
esa Sangal was arrested. She stood her trial
with Archer, pleaded pregnancy and was
sentenced to imprisonment for life. Archer
was sentenced to death, and was quieter in
the condemned cell than lie had been in the
dock, because in the condemned cell he was
alone, and in the dock the Avoman had com-
panioned him. His brown eyes had lost
their fear and become all faithful and pliable
retriever again, tie was one of the herd,
and the herd’s conventions dominated him.
Giving up all hope of life lie welcomed the
consolations of a religion to which lie had
never before given a thought; in the shadow
of the scaffold he sat down tranquilly to
read the Bible as if lie were a hopeful and
ambitious theological student preparing foi
. examination.
si: sis * >i=
Billy followed his speculations, and was
helped thereto by a chief warder avlio loved
writer-men and had himself written a book
of his experiences Avitli criminals —a book
from which he had cut out all the grain and
wherein lie had carefully printed the chaff.
He and Billy had become warm friends. Now
Billy asked to be allowed to meet Archer, and
know all the story that puzzled'him.
So they met. The newspaper man and
the condemned, now a quiet, brown-eyed young
man of the type that makes the suburbs—
a youth who, but for some sudden sidetrack-
ing of morality, might have caught the
8.5 tram every morning and returned by the
5.30 every evening, and fathered children who
bullied him; and so to a quiet death by
pneumonia or Bright’s disease.
But he was \'ery quiet, too quiet to talk.
Billy found himself no nearer, until one
day he called Avheu the condemned man Avas
in the exercise-yard.
“Here’s something I saw yesterday,” said
the chief warder. “Look where it’s marked.
All the same thing—about loose women.”
Billy hurriedly noted chapters and verses
in Archer’s Bible, and arriving home searched
for the places he had noted, and then carried
the information to his friend the chief
warder.
“ ‘To keep thee from the evil woman, from
the flattery of the tongue of a strange
woman.
“ ‘Lust not after her beauty in thine heart;
neither let her take thee with her eyelids.’
“Beauty,” said Billy. “That horror of a
woman—and beauty?”
“He was young and ignorant. He had been
three years at sea in sail when he deserted
and took the job on the farm, Mr. Pagan ;
and I’ve read someAvhere that in the dark all
cats are grey.”
“All right,” said Billy hurriedly. “We’ll
get on.
“ ‘For by means of. a whorish woman a
man is brought to a piece of bread; and the
adulteress will hunt for the precious life. Can
THE REWARDS OF SCIENCE.
“Oh, my young brother’s doing fine. Medi-
cal research, you know.”
“Yes, I know — inventin’ new diseases and
all that. Say, now, what royalty might
a man expect to draw on a perfectly
new disease?”
a man take fire in his bosom and his clothes
not be burned?
“ ‘... .For at the window of my house I
looked through my casement, and beheld
... . .a. young man void of understanding pass-
ing through the street near her corner. And
he went the way to her house.
“ ‘ln the twilight, in the evening, in the
black and dark night.
“ ‘And behold there met him a woman with
the attire of an hamot and subtle of heart.
... .So she caught him and kissed lyim. And
with an impudent face said unto him. “I have
peace-offerings with me. This day have I
paid my vows.
“ ‘ “Therefore came I forth to meet thee,
and I have found thee.
“ ‘ “I have decked my bed with coverings of
tapestry; with carved works; with fine linen
of Egypt.
“‘“I have perfumed my bed with myrrh,
aloes and cinnamon.”
“ ‘With her milch fair speech she caused
him to yield. With the flattering of her
lips she forced him.
“ ‘He goeth after her straightway as an ox
goeth to the slaughter or as a fool to the
correction of the stocks.
SOUNDED LIKE ENCOURAGEMENT.
RODOLPH : “Do you think marriages are
made in Heaven?”
MIMI: “Well, they’d have to be made
either there or in. the other place if all
men were as slow as some darlings I
know.”
“ ‘Till a dart strike through his liver.
“ ‘Let not thine heart decline to her ways;
go not astray in her paths.
“ ‘For she has cast down many wounded:
yea, many strong men have been slain by her.
“ ‘Her house is the way to Hell, going down
to the chambers of death.
“ ‘ As for him that wanteth understanding
she saith to him: “Stolen watei's are sweet
and bread eaten in secret is pleasant.” But
he knoweth not that the dead are there :
And that her guests are in the depths of
Hell.’
“Unless Archer deceives himself the Avoman
was the real killer,” said Billy.
“Let’s see, the depositions ought to show
us something of that,” replied the chief
Avarder. “I’ve got a copy here.”
They read the depositions together.
“It’s right,” said BiJly Pagan. “Archer
ran away three times and she brought him
back. The man they killed was either a clod
or a complaisant. , One statement here is
that Sangal told the neighbors that he was
glad Archer had returned to the farm.,
because now his Avife left him in peace.”
“That’s so.”
“And at last she thought that if Sangal
were dead Archer would stay permanently.”
"It seems like that.”
“Could I talk with Archer?”
“I’ll manage it. But keep it dark.”
“I can’t keep the result dark. I’ll print
it, but only Avhen it can’t do him any harm.”
The condemned, studying his Bible as
usual, received them civilly. “This is Mr.
Pagan, Archer. He saw you at Dandenong,”
the chief warder said.
The man shuddered at the word. After
some preliminaries :
“Don’t you hope for a reprieve?”
“No! No! No ! No! I want to die. To
be Avhere she isn’t. I want to die — to be
safe.”
“She said to you ‘Kill’?”
“She tried for weeks to make me do it.
She said she’d follotw me up. if I ran away
again. Follow me all over the world. I Avas
afraid to stay. But what Avas the good of
running away again if she’d bring me back?”
“You didn’t love her?”
“Nobody could. But she held me—animal,
after all that sea. Like an ox to the
slaughter.... or a fool to the correction of
the stocks.”
“Was he a slow-thinking man?”
“He never thought. A dull Russian. In
the fields all his life. It was all grubbing
with him, scraping pennies and making a
prisoner of every shilling.”
“And that night—she told you again to
do it?”
“Yes. He was asleep. She brought me the
axe. ‘Kill,’ she said. I hit one blow —with
only half a heart. He started awake, scream-
ing. She took the axe. ‘Hold him, fool,’
she said. I shut my eyes. I shuddered....
held him. .. .then. . . .he didn’t scream any
more. ‘Carry him to the well,’ she said.
Yes. . . .yes. . . .1 carried him to the well. He
cried when he hit the water —only two feet
of water in the well. He cried. I ran away
so’s not to hear. She brought me back.
‘Fool,’ she said; ‘wash your hands, and who
knows?’ ”
‘‘Lady Macbeth.”
“Eh? I don’t know of that. Was it
another case like.. . .like mine?”
“Not quite and then?”
“We washed our hands. And she said—
she said, ‘Come!’ She took me to her room.
God ! I heard his cries from the well. Later
on she slept. I lay awake till dawn....
then....l ran away.... ‘ Many strong men
have been slain by her....her feet go down
to death! Oh! Oh! her feet go down to
death!’ ”
The chief warder entered the cell and
tapped Billy Pagan on the shoulder. “Better
leave him now; he’ll go wrong in the head.”
Billy Pagan left the condemned babbling
the Bible verses of evil women, and went his
way.
>!: * * *
Later Frith found him writing hard, con-
centrated so closely on the work that he
did not hear Frith’s entrance, nor notice
him until Frith laid a hand on his shoulder.
“Writing the great epic poem, laddie?”
“No. Stark tragedy.”
“What about?”
“The Dandenong murder. Writing a
‘feature’ for next Monday’s execution.”
“Literature ! Don’t bother, laddie. We’re
in journalism. Literature! Forget it and
be comfortable. Write your slush and drink
your beer.”
So Billy Pagan wrote the terrible story of
these dull animals who had Russianised even
the Australian atmosphere, so that one fclt
he was reading of people who lived, not on
the kindly, spacious Australian plain, but
in the stark and callous uncertainty of a
Russian steppe. He wrote of the woman
who was female, but who had not femi-
ninity ; of the sea-weary sailor hating, but
yielding; of the stolid money-grubber who
cared for nothing but piling pennies. He
drew the picture in its hazy air, reeling
through the smoke of burning weeds; the
murder and the disposal of the yet-breathing
body; and that vile embrace in the blood-
stained room as the feeble cries of the
dying issued from the well.
On the Monday he heard the sheriff de-
manding the body of David Archer; saw the
little procession up the steps of the scaffold:
heard a murmur of question and answer;
and then a sound as of a tautened cable
struck by an iron bar while holding the
weight of ten thousand tons of floating
steel —-the sound of the bass string of a violin
struck dully so that the rope felt the sudden
weight. And David Archer died.
To the terrible story of the murder Billy
Pagan added a few lines of the execution
and filed his copy.
“It’s queer stuff,” said the sub-editor;
“where did you get it?”
“Get it? How?”
“Sounds like Turgenieff or Gorky, but it
isn’t either.”
“It’s mine.”
“Now, now! Isn’t it by some Russian
writer I never heard of?”
“I don’t do those things. I wrote it my-
self and I got it myself.”
“Well, we can’t print it! Just give us a
couple of inches of the execution.”
So the story that sounded Russian, be-
cause it was of Russians and because tlie
writer had got under the Russian skin, never
approached the printer. Instead, the next
day’s reader was informed that “the con-
demned walked to the gallows with a firm
step and death was instantaneous.”
“There were two instantaneous deaths,”
commented Frith. “One was Archer’s and
the other Avas literary ambition’s.”
The Payment.
Here where the gums about my house
Green sanctuary keep,
Grey evening brings to tired content
For sunlit lustres fitly spent
The recompense of sleep.
With silver coin for quiet rest
And yellow gold that gleams,
The guerdon of a happy day
To spend along the starry way
In quietness and dreams.
No tribute I to Caesar bring,
I claim my own by right;
The night brings tribute unto me,
And so from dusk till dawn I’ll be
An emperor to-night!
QUEENSLAND.
ELOUERA.


THE FINEST SHOT IN THE WORLD - -
Price £5, Post Free.
è
MUST HAVE A RIFLE
TO MATCH HIS SKILL
Kxaot estimation of the range; clear definition of the sights; a steady “dead on’’ hold; and a
perfect trigger pressure —all the skill born of
KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERIENCE IS ABSOLUTELY WASTED
unless your Rifle is capable of consistently making small groups, placing shot after shot exactly
where you are holding, and developing confidence in the weapon that is essential to fine shooting.
The secret of the success of the new “WINCHESTER” MODEL 56, BOLT-ACTION .22 CALIBRE
MAGAZINE RIFLE lies in the fact that it is chambered in exactly the same manner as the
famous Winchester Match Rifle, Model 52, in which the bullet of the .22 Long-Rifle cartridge
is seated actually in the grooves of the rifling—central with the axis of the bore, and forming a
gas-tight check which conserves every atom of pressure of the powder charge.
Let us send you further information and a special leaflet “B. 56” dealing with this remarkable
weapon.
COWLES & DUNN
(The Oldest-Established Gunmakers in Australia),
-phone: M 3388. 453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
tor the original.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 QUEENSLAND TOWNSVILLE.
No. 135 of 1926.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction —Mr. Justice
Douglas.
BETWEEN HARRY RIEDEL of Malanda
in the State of Queensland Carrier
Plaintiff and EDITH HELENE RUBY
RIEDEL Defendant and STANHOPE
MASON CARR Co-defendant.
TO EDITH HELEN RUBY RIEDEL.
TO STANHOPE MASON CARR.
TAKE NOTICE that Harry Riedel of
Malanda in the State of Queensland Carrier
lias commenced an action against you in the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Townsville
by Writ of that Court dated the Eleventh
day of November One thousand nine hundred
and twenty-six claiming a dissolution of
marriage with you Edith Helene Ruby
Riedel his wife in which said Writ you the
said Stanhope Mason Carr are joined as
Co-defendant AND THAT if you the said
Edith Helene Ruby Riedel and you the said
Stanhope Mason Carr wish to defend the
said action you should cause an appearance
to be entered for you in the said court at
Townsville within two calendar months from
the last day of publication of this notice
in the Sydney Bulletin newspaper AND
THAT in default of your so doing the said
Harry Riedel may by leave of the Court
or a Judge thereof proceed therein and
judgment may be given in yonr absence.
Dated this third day of February One
thousand nine hundred and twenty-eight.
[L.S.] JAS. COMERFORD.
Roberts, Leu and Barnett,
Solicitors, Townsville.
Town Agents for :
Mac Donnell, Harris and Bennett,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff, Cairns.
A FEW moments
spent in attaching
WEED CHAINS to your
tyres — before trouble
is encountered —will
prevent danger and long
delays on the road.
Weed Chains grip
give positive traction
in mud or sand.
Standard of quality for
over a quarter of
a century
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
1505
Amusements.
E M P I R E THEATRE,
Railway Square, adjoining Saunders’ Corner,
in Quay Street, Sydney.
RUFE NAYLOR has the honor to present
1/6 2/6 THE FILM GIRL. 3/6 5/6
NIGHTLY AT 7.55.
Reserves at Theatre (MA1O0O), Nicholsons, Palings,
Samuels, and leading Hotels.
Matinees Thursdays and Saturdays at 2.15.
Theatre Box Office Hours: 9 to 3, 4 to 9.
5$ Y 1) Mil'S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S : THE GIRL FRIEND.
CRITERION:
ALL THE KING’S HORSES.
ROYAL:
THE TRIAL OF MARY DUGAN.
PALACE: THE GOLDFISH.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBIHTY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
.1 c. WILLIAMSO N, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE STUDENT PRINCE.
KING’S THEATRE: THARK.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE TERROR.
A THEN MU M THEAT It E,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
TWICE DAILY.
E. J. CARROLL PRESENTS
CHANG,
A PARAMOUNT PICTURE.
Plans at Allan’s.
HOY T’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
THE WALTZ DREAM,
Made from Strauss’s Famous Operetta.
ALSO
I WILL REPAY.
With STUART HOLMES and LAURA LE BRETON.
IYI AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
MONTE BLUE and MYRNA LOY
in
BITTER APPLES.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone: 7076 & 7790.
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER*
WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SHAKSPEARE.
In preparation for 1928, “Coriolanus,” “All’s Well
That Ends Well,” “Henry IV.” (part 1), “Richard II.”
Adelaide: Prince of Wales Theatre. Season commenced
February 25.
Sydney Rep.: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229, Sydney.
Victoria Racing Club
Flemington
Autumn Meeting.
March 3,6, 8 and 10.
NEWMARKET HANDICAP
AUSTRALIAN CUP
C. M. LLOYD STAKES
KING’S PLATE
AUTUMN STEEPLECHASE
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY, Secretary.
Real Skin Health
Follows Use of Cuticura
Bathe daily with the Soap and
hot water, anointing irritations, if
any, with the Ointment. Regular
use of Cuticura Soap and Ointment
soothes and comforts tender, sensi-
tive skins and keeps them healthy
and attractive.
Soap Is.,Talcum ls.3d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co..Sydney, N.S.W.”
SWIG>— Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
‘THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE 3d
Contains everything a woman needs tc know.
p
MINI
r*'
,\\EI NZJ
I ESfo 1069 ml
PEANUT
fcUTTEF?
"jKCTratw*
•IHEIHZ Ca.PITTSBURGK.I*
A
Dainty
Delicacy
WITH afternoon
tea, serve dainty
sandwiches of Heinz
Peanut Butter. In this
choice brand the butter
is always firm and
creamy, with a rich
nutty flavour. Always
delicious and nutritious.
Easy to serve, easy to
enjoy, easy to eat more.
A real treat for young
and old.
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY
London, Eng. Pittsburgh, Pa. Toronto, Can.
one of the
57
Varieties
HEINZ
PEANUT
BUTTER
1489
Pilenta, the ideal complexion soap, 1/9. —Advt.
[l.
ALL’S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
A FANCY-DRESS FRIENDSHIP.
“f WISH,” said Helen, as she gave hef
[ hair a final pat, “that I could get hold
of a really decent costume for to-
morrow night. This jazz affair is getting
dreadfully tired. And every other girl in
the room is wearing its twin sister.”
A pretty rose-and-grey I'ierette, who was
adjusting her right shoe, nodded reflectively.
“H’m,” she said, “but it’s no good worry-
ing. It’s a bore not being a plutocrat.....
I say, Helen... .just look there!”
The two girls gazed fascinated at a woman
who had just slipped off her coat. She
wore a delicious eighteenth-century costume
of mauve satin over a sprigged petticoat. A
white powdered wig set off her softly glow-
ing face, and a patch was perched haughtily
in one dimple.
“Isn’t she exquisite!” whispered Helen.
“I think those old-fashioned things are en-
chanting. .. .and original these days!
Come along, Mabel; they’re waiting for us.”
It was a very depressed Helen who changed
her shoes in the dressing-room after the
dance. Her costume was rumpled and torn
and a large stain was visible on the front.
“I can’t go to the Excelsior in this to-
morrow night,” she confided to Mabel. “I'll
have to tell Guy I’ve got a headache or
something.”
“Poor old girl!” sympathised her friend.
“I’ve only this one fancy dress, and I
haven’t a sue in the wide. Oh, I say, I was
introduced to that lovely creature. .. .she’s
a Mrs. Beauchamp. She’s asked me to have
tea at her flat to-morrow. .. .here she is
.... I’ll introduce you, too.”
The following afternoon Helen and Mabel
were having tea with Mrs. Beauchamp. It
was a charming room, and, though the
weather was warm, a small wood fire burned
clearly in the grate.
Mrs. Beauchamp's appearance by daylight
had given both girls something of a shock.
Her frock was pretty, her complexion beau-
tiful, but the lovely wig of the previous
night had given place to her own hair, which
was lank, dull and straight. Though she
seemed young, there was already more than
one grey streak in her locks. She looked
almost plain.
“I’m so glad you liked my frock,” she
smiled in answer to .a remark of Mabel’s.
“But it always depresses me so. I do wish
I lived in the eighteenth century, or that
wigs were tile fashion nowadays. I can’t
camouflage my horrid hair anyway by day-
light ! Have another cake. Helen ; they’re
real cream! Forgive my being frightfully
rude, but could you tell me where you get
your hair waved? Or is it natural? Because
I was admiring it all the time at the dance.”
Helen laughed.
“Can’t afford to patronise hairdressers,”
she answered, “and it isn’t natural. No, I
just use silmerine.” She finished as if that
explained everything. Mrs. Beauchamp
knitted her brows.
“Silmerine?” she inquired. “I’m afraid I’m
very ignorant. What is it? Where do you
get it? What do you do with it?”
“One at a time,” laughed Helen. It is
a rather nice-smelling colorless liquid. You
can get it from any chemist’s. You just
damp your hair with it, put in slides where
you want the wave....and, voila, ze curls!”
“But that’s too wonderful,” exclaimed
Mrs. Beauchamp. “Do you have to use it
every day?”
“Oh, no! The effects last for some days.
And the queer thing is that the more you
use silmerine the less often you require it.
It seems to coax the. hair into natural waves
that stay in of their own accord.”
“If my hair weren’t so odiously thin and
streaky,” said Mrs. Beauchamp, “I would
rush out this minute and buy a bottle before
I have another sandwich. But my grey
locks would look too ridiculous in waves.
Shall I have a bottle of peroxide or Condy’s
fluid, and turn my few remaining hairs a
bright gold or red?”
“Mrs. Beauchamp,” put in Helen, “I’m
going to reveal a horrid secret. A little
while ago I found some grey hairs on my
own head. Mabel’s fair; she won’t go grey
so soon. So I got a packet of tammalite and
dissolved it in bay rum, and put it on the
faded parts with a clean little brush. It
was wonderful the way that it gradually
brought back the color to my hair.”
“How lovely,” continued their hostess.
Yes, I really must try that. Tammalite,
you said, didn’t you? By the way, a lot of
people I know are using boranium as a hair
tonic, but so far I haven’t tried it. Do
either of you know if it’s any good?”
“Any good!” chorused the two girls.... “Why,
it’s the only thing”
“I mix it with bay rum.”
“You can u*e eau-de-Cologne, I believe.”
“It’s the most priceless stuff.”
“My hair’s grown heaps thicker since I used it.”
“Good gracious! ” interposed Mrs. Beauchamp, “I
suppose I shall have to use it too. I’ll put it down
with the tammalite. What do you shampoo with?”
she asked. “You’ve both got such glorious hair.”
This time Mabel answered. “Oh, the usual—stallax,
you know.”
“Stallax?” I don’t seem to know it. Is it some
special preparation?”
“I don’t think so,” replied Mabel. “It is quite
ordinary stuff, I believe. You can buy it in pack-
ages from most chemists. But it makes the most
lovely shampoo; it lathers gorgeously in any water,
and your hair dries quickly after it and looks so soft
and bright. My own hair always gets so dry and
brittle after a shampoo of any kind that I always
massage my scalp with olive oil before washing it.”
“That’s awfully nice to know,” said Mrs. Beau-
champ. “Really, I’m most inteiisely grateful to you
two girls. I’ve been envying your hair.”
“And we’ve been envying your complexion,” said
Helen. “I do wish I had nice pink cheeks like
yours, and I don’t like the idea of rouge.”
“Powdered colliandum,” said Mrs. Beauchamp, in
a dramatic whisper... .“just a trifle... .harmless....
indetectable... .any chemist’s... .used it for years. By
the way, Helen, didn’t you say something about
wanting a fancy dress for the ‘Excelsior’ dance to-
night? You wouldn’t care to borrow my rig-out, I
suppose? It’s just your size, and I know it would
suit you.”
“Mrs. Beauchamp,” said Helen, “you’re one of
the best.”


Zfime is
To all lovers of outdoor sports a dip in the roaring breakers on a summer’s day is
indeed romance. Next day the sunburnt, blistered hands and scarlet face are painful realities.
Why suffer such distress and disfigurement from sunburn when, it can easily be avoided
by always using Rexona Soap when you have your shower, and then applying a little Rexona
Ointment, the cooling, soothing and healing balm?
If you want to make doubly sure of avoiding sunburn, apply the Rexona Ointment to the
exposed parts before going into the surf. This
prevents both the action of the salt water
and the sun on the most delicate skin.
If this is done there will be no after-effects
from exposure to the sun, no regrets after
a happy day, for the skin, soothed by • the
wonderful influence of Rexona, the Rapid
Healer, will quickly regain its normal tem-
perature and comfortable coolness.
You will find Rexona Skin and Facial Soap
ideal as a shampoo for the hair after your
dip.
Rexona Soap and Rexona, the Rapid
Healer, in its dainty pot, should stand on
the toilet table of all who indulge in outdoor
sports.
CoolinQ
hr
joolhmg
Healing
=' /f•nnlisrptic Omlmenl
rbiiri* ,es Absolutely
' * " HefllS Dntiakln
Reliable
35
r A Reliable Healer for all Erupfions
and Irritations of the .Skin Eczema Sores. Cufs.
Burn* ftruiscs.Sorcs.Sciottca. Piles Stings of Inseda
and all kinds of Inflammation
REXONA DEP T SHELDON DRUG C<> L Tt> SVDNEV,
THE TRIANGULAR BOX
Kexona,
Soap
f
J^ecdJtlb
or
and
jjexmty
é
ê
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
‘And he’s brought me
one of those lovely
Big Red Boxes!’’
Made to-day and mailed
to you to-day.
Send for Catalogue Illustrated
with reproductions of our Con-
fectionery in color.
PRICES:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post Free to any address in
Australia.
162-66 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE AND KING STREETS;
CASTLEREAGII STREET
(Next Theatre Royal),
SYDNEY.
Sapphire Days.
HOUR by hour the tea-tree weaves
Low-crooned pretty words of pity
Into poetry of leaves.
“So, little leaves, tell me! Tell me, little
leaves,
Why my lover lingers?
Like a bed of violets lies the sea to-day,
Greens and blues that play
Turned by windy fingers.
Near their salt and dappled bloom
Is our trysting room,
Hoofed with wings of shadow and
Floored with silver sand,
Walled about with tiny leaves dark on either
hand.
Whispering leaves who watch me wait,
Why is he so late?”
“In sapphire days of summer, in delicious
summer days,
Lovers pass so often!
And most arc linked with roses and some
with ragged rue.
But, alas for you,
Thorns no love can soften
Spike the chaplet you must wear
On your satin hair.
He you leant, ah muffled shame!
Long Before you came —
Here we walked with happy steps and eyes
that drooped, aflame.
In his arm, against his side,
One leaned like a bride."
Day by day the tea-tree weaves
Tears, strewn pearls from silly girls,
Into poetry of leaves.
“But, little leaves, hear me! Hear me, little
leaves !
They were long since wedded ;
She was cold and dreamy, and his love for
her was gone,
Like dead blossoms wan,
Petals faint and shredded.
I have youth and beauty bright—■
He is mine by right.
Ah, but I could make him glad!
My first kiss he had.. ..
Him repentant and forgetful, thinking as she
bade,
By her magic could she bring
With a worn gold ring?”
“In sapphire days of summer, in delicious
summer days,
Girls should be a-learning.
If a maid must charm a man from his chosen
mate,
Be it soon or late
Back will he be turning,
Doubly false for old ties’ sake,
Though three hearts should ache.
He you love is like the sea
Taking tenderly
New-come shells, then spurning them in
roughest treachery.
Fair the sea is, cruel and fair;
Seek for counsel there.”
Night by night the tea-tree weaves
Starry skies and blinded eyes
Into poetry of leaves.
“But, little leaves, help me! Help me, little
leaves!
You have lashed unsparing,
Flicking tiny wounds to bleed, ah, your bitter
tongue!
And I’m young, I’m young—
Pain beyond all bearing
Must not, can not fall on me
By so sweet a sea!
Surely love’s a godlike thing
Free and strong of wing,
Not a guilty shade that lurks with secret
poisoning?
Such black grief cannot be truth —
Joy belongs to youth !”
“In sapphire days of summer, in delicious
.summer days,
Morrow after morrow
Youth will go a-hunting till the quarry,
caught at last,
Turns, and grapples fast —
And Youth has run down Sorrow!
Gan you hear not how the sea
Tells this tale eternally?
Waves unnumbered, each to moan:
T am wronged alone!’
Yet each foolish wave runs on in hope till
overthrown.
Take your hurt, earth’s broken daughter,
To the chill green water.”
Year by year the tea-tree grieves,
Shedding light through day and night
Dead and ashen little leaves.
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.
A Nautical Operation.
I’VE been through every sorter storm,”
he said, filling a queer-looking calabash
with my tobacco. “At one time I
useter think no more of stepping off a sinking
ship than I does of stepping off a tramcar
nowadays, and I’ve had adventures that’d
raise the hair on your scalp even to hear of.
Yet I come through them all —only to be
foundered, so to speak, by a woman.
“It happened upwards of twenty year
ago, when I was coming out in the old
Dianny. You don’t remember her, I sup-
pose? Well, I signed on her reg’lar for
years. The old man had one of them narsty
flaring tempers, and the fust officer was a bit
of a nigger-driver; but in the main we was a
happy ship.
“Now, just afore I signed on for what was
to be my last trip on the Dianny the old man
took it into his head to get married; or
maybe he just married because he couldn’t
help himself. I reckon, from what I seen
of his wife, that he was caught on a lee
shore, and just naturally druv on to the
rocks.
“Well, he decided to take her with him on
this voyage. A great big raw-boned, red-
headed piece from Lancashire she was, with
energy enough for a dozen women. She’d
never been on a sea voyage before, and at
first all she did was to rampage about the
ship and ask questions. But after w<>
rounded the .Cape she got tired of this and
began to take an interest in me.
She d come and talk when I was on
watch, and foller me about with her eyes
till I didn’t know which way to look- and
sometimes she’d bump up against me’care-
less-like. In them days, mind you, I stood six
foot-odd in me bare feet and never had to
look fur in port for a girl. But I never
encouraged her. I had too much respect
for the old man and that narsty temper ot
"The fust officer, who was jealous, usetcr
put in all his spare time thinking up rotten
jobs for me, and the codding I got from the
rest of the crew made me wish I’d never
clapped eyes on the Dianny. I used to
spend all the time I could in the fo’c’s’le; but
I couldn’t live there. 1 tried to shake her
off; but she clung to me like a barnacle.
And the more I tried to cast off the more
she clewed on to me.
“Forchunit the old man never spotted any-
thing. She’d never take no notice of me
when he was on deck; she’d even report me
for loafing and being a bad influence ou tlie
crew. An’ then the old man would hot things
up for me.
“Things went on getting wusser and
wusser, and by the time we sighted Sydney I
was fair desprit. I made up my mind to
leave the ship, though I’d signed on for the
round trip, of course. I told the old man I
was thinking of going on the land; but he
wouldn’t hear of it.
“Of course his wife has to come butting
in and asks if desertion ain’t a serious
crime. The old man told her it was, and
what happened to one of his men who once
deserted. I had no idea they made it so
hard for a poor seafaring man to leave his
ship at the wron'g port, and I went away
thoughtful.
“There seemed nothing for it but a trip
back in the ship; but the thought of facing
the tropics with that there woman aboard
weren’t to be contemplated, especially if the
old man got to know about it. I’ve seen the
old man knock a man down with a belaying-
pin for nothing worse than answering him
back.
“Well, a few days before we was due to
sail I met a shipping agent who was the
husband of a cousin of my mother s, and I
tells him my troubles.
“ ‘Lumme,’ he says, ‘I can fix that for you
easy. All you want is a certificit from a
doctor saying you’re too ill to travel.’
“ ‘But there ain’t nothing wrong with me,’
I says. ‘I nev-er had a day’s illness in me
life.’
“ ‘You leave that to me,’ he says. ‘I know
a doctor ’ll fix you up—fer a consideration.
He’s had so little experience he finds it hard
to get patients, so he don’t mind doing an
odd job like this to oblige a friend.’
“So be took me along with him down
Woolloomooloo way, where the doctor lived
in a little house away behind a pub. The
agent, after telling him I reckoned I w r as
too ill to make the voyage back to England
in my ship, went off arid left me to it.
“ ‘So you’re too ill to work?’ asks the
doctor, looking at me hard.
“ ‘Yes,’ I says;
“ ‘All right,’ he says. ‘Take off you-r
clothes.’
“To oblige him I took off me clobber; then
he made me lie down on a sorter tall bunk
and punched me chest and went all over me
with a speaking trumpet. He looked so
serious I gets a bit worried.
“ ‘Ain’t nothing wrong, is there?’ I asks
with a sorter laugh.
“ ‘Dunno so much about that,’ he says, still
looking serious, and started tickling me
under the ribs till I was knotted up like a
gnarled rope’s end.
“ ‘H’m. .. .worse’n I thought,’ he says to
himself.
“Then he give me a punch that brung me
up all standing. ‘Did that give you a sort
of sharp pain and make you catch your
breath?’ he asks.
“When I got me breath back I told him
it was like that, only worse.
“‘I was afraid so,’ he says. ‘One of the
worse, cases I ever seen.’
“ ‘Cases er what?’ I gasps.
“ ‘Appendicitis, me poor feller,’ he says,
patting me on the shoulder. ‘lt’s the worst
case I ever clapped eyes on,’ he says. ‘lt’s
a wonder you ain’t dead. You oughter be in
a museum.’
“ ‘But I been feeling all right,’ I says. ‘I
gotter wonderful appetite.’
“ ‘That’s one of the worst symptoms,’ he
says. ‘Do you feel a sorter sinking feeling
inside you?’
“ ‘Yes,’ I says. ‘I do. Orfin.’
“ ‘Then you got it all right,’ he says, shak-
ing his head. ‘You’ll have to go into hospital
straight away.’
“ ‘Ain’t you finished your, little joke yet?’
I asks, winking.
“ ‘I don’t understand,’ he replies, looking
severe. ‘By the bye, how much money you
got?’
“ ‘Well,’ I says, ‘I reckon if I was pushed
I might lay me hands on fifteen quid.’
“ ‘Funny,’ he says. ‘That’s just what I
was going to charge you for the operation.’
“With that I gets to my feet. ‘Doc,’ I
says, ‘ain’t this gorn fur enough? You’ve
had your bit of fun. If you think I’m going
into this hospital to get cut up you got
another think coming. You know wot I
come here for. Wot’s it worth to give me
a certificit?’
“ ‘Sir.’ says the doctor, turning very nasty,
‘you insult me! That finishes it. Go back
to your damned ship,’ says he, ‘only you
won’t get back to England alive. The visit
will cost you two guineas.’
“I thinks to meself the best thing to do
is to humor him and go into hospital. Then,
when the old man has got the certificit, I
kin easy clear out: and if I was caught I
could say I was druv to it be my appendi-
citis. I did feel queer pains in my stum-
mick, too. that I’d never noticed before.
“So I told the doctor I was willing to go
into hospital right away and he could col-
lect me pay from the old man when he
hands him the certificit.
“Well, we walked round to the hospital,
where the doctor handed me over to a
woman he called matron, This old girl made
me take all me clothes off and have a bath.
You got no idea of the hardships inflicted
on poor people who has to go to hospitals.
She even come along to look me over, with
me trying to hide behind a scrubbing-brush
and a bit of soap.
“Then she give me a flannel nightgown
and took me up to a room with rows of
beds, and a nurse come along with some
slops and burgoo, which was all they give
me for tea.
“I reckoned I’d have to stop in the hos
pital that night, because the old man wouldn’t
(Continued on next page.)


«9 $1 &
s
N
iTN
i I ,1
iii&siWk 'i
€very picture &iF
\\\M Zells a story
&
fe>
'-a
m
\1
i>_
§s'
When your kidneys
Look to your kidneys!
W HY be a martyr to backache? Nine times
out of ten it is quite unnecessary. Back-
ache, in common with headaches, dizziness and
urinary disorder, sciatica, rheumatism, lumbago,
stone in the kidney, gravel and dropsy, is frequently
due to weak kidney action. Don’t waste precious
time! So long as your kidneys allow impure blood to
circulate through the system, you cannot hope to get
well. Be quick to strengthen the kidney action by
using Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills; they will not fail,
re well again, take an occasional course of Doan’s to keep them healthy and active.
A MAN’S TESTIMONY.
Mr. F. W. Martin, Homer-street, Undercliffe, Sydney,
says: “About two years ago I took a course of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills for a severe attack of kidney disorder,
and they permanently cured me. Previous to using these
Pills I had a lot of trouble with my back, it was very stiff
and always aching. At times it was only with difficulty I
could get about, and if I stooped the agony to stand up
again was awful. I was also subject to dizzy attacks, and
felt constantly tired and languid. I heard of Doan’s Backache.
Kidney Pills through a friend, so got some at once, and
they suited me splendidly and restored me to perfect health.
I am still well, and have been since Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills cured me.”
TWO SYDNEY
PEOPLE
CURED OF
BACKACHE
AND KIDNEY
TROUBLE.
A WOMAN’S TESTIMONY.
Mrs. S. T. Burrows, 19 Springside-street, Rjozelle,
Sydney, says: “In common with many others I have nothing
but good to say for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Some
few years ago I was suffering a lot with my kidneys, and in
consequence was troubled with pains across the small of my
back and dizzy feelings, besides having no energy for any-
thing. One day my attention was called to Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills and in-the hope that they might benefit
me, I got a bottle. After taking them for a few days my
health began to improve, and by the time I had used six
bottles I was completely cured. I am grateful to Doan’s
Pills for the good they have done me, and hope many will
profit by my experience and use this splendid remedy. I
never suffer with backache now, in fact feel splendid in
every way.”
ë
ē
Backache
Kidney
ĕ
Sold by all Chemists and
Stores.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
probably get the certificit till next day.
Then later on I’d clear out, though how I
was going to do it I couldn’t fathom, the
matron having pinched me clothes.
“Well, the night that follered was one of
the worst I ever put in. All around me
was moans and groans. Doctors and nurses
rustled about with horrid-looking things in
their hands. In the bed next to me a
covie moaned all night.
“ ‘Wot’s lie making all that noise about?’
I asks a nurse.
“ ‘Appendicitis,’ she whispers. ‘I don’t
think he’ll last the night.’
“And he didn’t.
“I’d have cleared out in me nightshirt
on’y for that certificit.
“Just as I was going off to sleep at dawn
a nurse come and woke me up, and she and
me and the matron had a nargument. Finally
they settled it by bringing in a coupler men
who took me to the bathroom and made me
have another bath. They wouldn’t give me
no breakfast, so I had to pinch a tray from
another man wot seemed too sick to want it.
“During the morning the nurses done
things to me which no man who hasn’t been
in a sick bay would believe. The doctor
come along later on and felt me pulse and
shook his head and give a lot of instructions
to the matron, who shook her head, too. I
asks about the certificit and the doctor told
me the old man was coming along in the
afternoon to bring the money and get it.
“‘And wot time’s the operation?’ I asks.
“ ‘Six o’clock,’ he says, quite calm. ‘But
there’s no need to worry,’ lie says. ‘lt ain’t
often fatal to a man wot’s led a pure life.’
“I never said nothing because of the mat-
ron being there; but I don’t mind tellin’ ye
that wot he said didn’t cheer me up much.
“Soon after lunch some of me shipmates
dropped in to see me; and to look at them
you would have thought they was going to
have the operation instead of me. They all
come in on tiptoes and spoke like as if they
thought I was dead already. But one of
them brung me a bottle of beer, and I
managed to mop it up when there was no
nurses in the ward, that being the only
bright spot in the ’ole day.
“Later in the afternoon as I was lying
with my eyes closed wondering how I was
going to get away before six o’clock, I
heard the boom of the old man’s voice, and
presently he come clumping in, followed by
his missus.
“As they brung up alongside me I let out
a groan and slowly opened my eyes.
“‘ls that you, sir?’ I asks witli a start
that sent a spassum across me face.
“ ‘Yes, me poor feller,’ he replies. ‘How
are you?’
“ ‘Not too good,’ I says. ‘The doctor
reckons I got the worst appendicitis he ever
clapped eyes on. He says it’s wasted on
me; it oughter be in a museum.’
“ ‘Where do you feel the pain most?’ asks
the old man’s missus.
“ ‘ln the pit of me stummick, mum,’ I
answers with a groan. ‘I got a terrible
sinking feeling and an awful appetite, and
me appendicitis is throbbing terrible. And
I got a temperature that’d make the equator
feel like a niceberg.’
“With that I let out another groan, and
I could see they was impressed with it. 1
hadn’t been listening to that covie alongside
me all night for nothing. So I moaned a
bit and twisted about in the bed, hoping
they'd see I was in agony and leave me be,
because it was getting along towards six and
I wanted to think up a way of getting out.
“ ‘The poor feller seems to be in dreadful
pain,’ whispers the old man to his missus.
‘Hadn’t we better leave him?’
“ ‘Of course not,’ replies his missus, speak-
ing sharp. ‘We gotter take his mind off his
sufferings. I’d never forgive myself if I
thought he was to go under the knife without
me doing all as is possible to help him on
the way.’
“I made a few remarks about her ancestry
under me breath, an’ she must have seen me
lips moving.
“ ‘Look,’ she says aside to the old man,
‘how his mouth is twisted with agony. Bear
up,’ she says to me, ‘you ain’t got much
longer to wait now. You ain’t a smoker,
are you?’
“ ‘No,’ I says. ‘I chews.’
“ ‘That’s good,’ she says. ‘I had a brother
who died of smoking. When he was dead
the doctor cut him open to make sartin, and
he showed me father how his innards was all
stained with terbaccer juice.’
“And then the old man went on to tell
a yarn about how liis mother had been
operated on which took so long to tell that
it was getting close to six.
“‘Don’t you think you better be going?’ I
says at last, just as his missus starts a story
about how a pair of forcips was left in her
cousin’s nephew after an operation.
“ ‘You ought to be glad,’ she says, ‘that
you got kind faces about you to cheer up wot
might be your last minutes on earth. Have
you got a message for your poor old mother?’
“ ‘Ain’t got a mother,’ I replies.
“ ‘Or your poor old father?’ she goes on.
“ ‘Ain’t got a father.’
“ ‘Or any of your brothers or sisters?’
“ ‘Ain’t got none of them neither.’
“ ‘Ain’t that fortunit now?’ she says, ‘for
there’s no one to be afflicted with your
death.’
“Just then two nurses brung in a sorter
rolling bunk covered with oilcloth.
“ ‘The oilcloth,’ says the old man’s missus,
very interested, ‘must be to catch the blood.’
“With that something seemed to give way
inside of me. With a yell I sprung out of
bed and grabbed the old man’s greatcoat
which he’d left on a chair, and I put it on
as I went tearing down the ward. Outside
was some steps and I went down ’em ten
at a time and was in the street afore any-
one’d got over their surprise.
“There was no one in the street, so I
kep’ on ’till I come to a part of the ’Loo
I knew. When I stopped to get me breath
I put me hand in the breast pocket of the
coat, and blow me if I didn’t come on to an
envelope addressed to the doctor with the
fifteen notes the old man was going to hand
to him inside of it. So I bought a complete
outfit and lay low ’till the Dianny had gone.
“Since then,” concluded the old man, hope-
fully gazing into my face, “things ain’t been
too good and I’ve often had to depend on
the generosity of strangers.”
F. RHODES FARMER.
A Maorilander Looks In.
THE doctor looked at all our palms, and
the Makura turned out of Watson’s
Bay towards the chewing-gum electric
signs, Hampton Court, the tin hares, and
the evening papers that are out before lunch.
The ship also nosed out and eyed with some
misgiving the big tangle of iron things that,
with a slightly obstetric air, announced the
progress pangs of the birth of Sydney Bridge.
Behind me a chorus of returning Austra-
lians gave voice to that marvellous collection
of new vowel sounds which have made the
nation famous. Their anthem sounded to
me something like this :
Our ’Arbor which art in Heaven,
Dinkum be thy name,
Thy bridge will come,
Too right it wi11....
The sight of the Scent Bottle at Bondi pro-
duced a gush of jokes on odors, rather on the
lines of Peter Whiffie’s pages of perfumes,
but apparently adapted by Havelock Ellis.
Al-lerce came up about now, and Bill
reckerned that the ole man would get er
fright when lie seen her in her coat of real
Australian vermin.
My cabin mates stared steadily. I had
been lucky. One was a 100 p.c. American
with a small zoo scattered about his vest
and lapel in enamel and bronze. The other
was an Englishman, suffering as usual from
defective curiosity, and every now and again
puzzling the American badly with small but
distinct shudders. The American thought
that I was also short on curiosity, and
covered the problem with national efficiency
by answering my questions before I asked
them.
I thought he spoke better truth than he
knew when he said they had salilved the
prahblems of labor and capital, but I cer-
tainly finished the journey with a complete
mind-picture of one hundred million sunny-
faced Americans full of high wages, cheap
rents, alitomobiles and piano-players, and all
belonging to concerns with menagerie names
where everyone leaped about worshipping
each other. He had one child and loved his
wife very much, and had started life as a
clurk and had won out and made good, and
was now holidaying after an appendicitis
operation. His wound was the smallest
through which an appendix had ever emerged
in Dayton, Ohio ; but as it was the first one
I had seen, I had no means of checking his
claim.
As the steamer shouldered the wharf, there
rose the wild, harsh cries of the waiting
natives :
“My-bu 1!”.... Ky-tie !... . Howareyer-
mum?.... Gor-dun!”
My American friend immediately bent over,
but his survey seemed disappointing. There
was not a single elk, moose, caribou, lion,
dromedary or anything. However, he be-
lieved me about there being a live Rotary
Club, and I could see that he reckoned on
being able to do a missionary speech on what
was missing from Australian ideals of pro-
gress, pep and brotherhood in business.
He was practically a perfect specimen. I
shall never forget the night when, under the
influence of several cocktails, not made from
synthetic gin, he really unwound his inner
thoughts. He had shown me his appendicitis
wound again, and it did seem to be rapidly
improving. He also showed me the photo-
graphs of his wife in four poses and the child
in eleven. And then he broke into his great
gospel, which was that it was impossible for
any man to get a profit of more than ten
per cent., clear of all overhead, unless he
had a Great White Soul.
I left him in the luggage shed, and followed
a genial liorse-lover with a barrow out to
where Sydney commenced. When a Maori-
lander looks in on Australia, there is always
a mite of the Big Brother attitude in the
folks he meets. In spite of myself, therefore,
I find my best defensive weapon is to work
to death the slightly superior sniff we use in
our own country when Australians come up
for notice. However, after three days of
Sydney sunshine and three nights of talk,
the great sprawling casual, efficient, friendly,
noisy city defeats and disarms me.
Then, of course, there was the party.
This festival was held at a house whose
floor acreage would be difficult to arrange
room for in Maoriland, as part of it would
have to be propped up with supports out in
the sea. The butler who let me in took
me at least a mile and a half down noble
passages, comdors and what not. Hordes
packs and coveys of guests were everywhere.
I think there was more than one ballroom,
there were Hawaiian jazz bandsmen, pipe
organs on every floor, enormous and expen-
sive gramophones in several places, and the
most delightful drinking buffets every
hundred yards or so.
I had a dance, and my partner asked me
if I had seen the bathroom. This was new
for me in modern light conversation, but I
had to admit that I had not seen it. It was
not a bathroom at all. It was an Aladdin’s
palace, with a crowd of conveniences, many
of them obviously designed by Aldous Huxley.
There were colored electric lights, things in
burnished silver that rose and fell, the bath
was of gleaming marble and let down into
the floor, and the floor also gleamed. I
stood, like stout Cortez, silent, and brimful
of wild surmise. Music, I learned, was
also laid on, and in whatever position one
was, in this Pompeiian hall of splendors, a
button was in reach that would start “The
Prisoner’s Song”, or “The Best Things in
Life Are Free.”
All my partners of that exotic evening
made the same proposal. The problem of
keeping going, that bugbear of conversation
now that the lollies with the mottoes on have
gone out, was simple. If she did not say
“Have you seen the bathroom?” you simply
said “Oh well, they’ve stopped playing—
what about having a look at the bathroom?”
My grief was that my American friend
was not at the party. Here would have
been devasting proof that, even in these
far-flung outposts of the British Empire,
culture in its highest or bathroom sense is
occasionally reached. Sydney, he would have
said, is moving fa-ast.
O.N. GILLESPIE.


SI
. ...
m
m
im
Mm
Mil
"8
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland rtfcnK. & CHOHGH, Uriabano.
°. Hice —i*3-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—-* 4 Chancery House,” 485 liourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. EiDEH, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, B.A.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
"BITUMASTIC” Specialties.
TRIED AND TESTED FOR THE PAST 70 YEARS
“Bitumastic” Black Solution, to prevent Corrosion.
“Bituros,” for preservation of Drinking-water Tanks—
tasteless and odorless.
“Bitumastic” Colored Enamels—-an economical paint for
all purposes, in a range of 15 colors.
“Bituplastic.” A plastic, bituminous waterproofing com-
pound, in red and black, for Roofs, Walls, etc.
Manufacturers: WAILES, DOVE BITUMASTIC, LTD., Newcastle-on-Tyne.
SOLE AGENTS—
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.
97 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
theOi
44V
coni
The genuine
KRUSE’S Will
be found the best
Medicine for Stomach
Disorders that skill and
science can produce.
&
Of special refinement
and purity, untouched
by hands, it can be
given to infants as
a mild aperient with
every confidence in
its safe, non-irritating
action.
&
o*l
oH
The Large Family Size will
be found more economical!
OBTAINABLE AT HIGH-CLASS STORES,
AND PHARMACIES
THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH
Made by FELTON, GRIMWADE ft CO. PROP. LTD., MELBOURNE.
e
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
M
t POST FREE j
THE P.
m
Are compounded with great care
From valuable ingredients
Of vegetable origin
Specially valuable for their purpose
Eradicate
Most of the troubles
Arising from disordered
Stomach, liver or bowels
Eliminate waste from system
Free you from
Biliousness, Constipation,
Indigestion, Sick Headache
Stimulate
The eliminating organs
Regulate their action
Strengthen the stomach
And cleanse the sytem
From all impurity
Tone
The stomach, liver and bowels
Purify blood, restore appetite
PERFORMANCE
Exceptional performance
under trying conditions has
proved conclusively that
dependability and economy
are built-in features of all
Kermath Engines. That
is why over 70% of all lead-
ing boat - builders use Ker-
math-Kermath is supreme.
All parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.
3 to 150 H. P.
1 to 6 cylinders
4-cycle Engines
HALL BROS., LTD.
Careening Cove
(Foot of Willoughby St.)
Milson’s Point
North Sidney, N. S. W.
Kermath Manufacturing Co.
Detroit, Mich., U. S. A.
Cable Address— Kermath
MARINE ENGINES
è
é
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
» x. tares: All-day, 2'6: Half-day. 1/6. Children 1/- and fid
«Dt('lAr°”TDll>T«Env"cn.m"/v” o,ri '"* H °*' l Afternoon Too on Bonrd.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
T 0,.., w, „ M 1/6 Sydney Ferries. Ltd.
This year the bigger Bulletin won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
0°
0^
e>
e
s®
6
.*** »6^ o,t^ iIV
«p*oK»-
v * ..••• .••*><;;
#■ .** .••*VW v 5^ e
iF* ..•• ..-•c^^


at I come to
think it over
■J?/
m
gg
s
/1
in
i i
i ,
U
5
! as
/
7
n
*7 /» 4
r>
b
> 4 r> p ‘
-i
X
/ Jk >
\j
CSB^i
<tr
JO
p«
x
E
F
J
il
r
f>
Every argument leads one to the conclusion that Republic is the
logical solution of any haulage problem. Really, the problem
resolves itself into one simple question—Will it earn PROFITS ?
Nothing else matters. And knowing the long record of Republic
in all the world’s markets, I know FOR CERTAIN that it will
stay on the job year in and year out, will cost less to run —in
short, I know IT WILL EARN PROFITS, Yes,
every argument points to buying a
ê
New South Wales:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney
Victoria:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
Cr. Elizabeth & Therry Streets,
Melbourne.
South Australia:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Queensland:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
Western Australia:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
New Zealand:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
GR.B.
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD., Crowle House, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
