

r\
&
Of Prohibition Beware/
Put your X in the
uare 1
/ Q***
&
*1
Best
V;
\\
%
S
r
y
'
m
£
H
rsrvt)
0 -
G
%
S'
r %
n
K
G
ar
G\
6
£
C
tgL^'
s>
?y
■,S
r\it
\.V
O
ui'(
<o
Or
m
m
m
s
fS
OC
AVJ^>
RESCH'S
R B i£S
THE GENUINE LAGER
~ ask forthemi
BYNAME
STIMULATING
The Bulletin
of )u<*r clcUm Cveru WeiA, /
Vol. 49.—N0. 2527.
Wednesday, July 18, 1928*
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'T'HE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
* 1928 is now ready, and will be for-
warded with full particulars and tferms on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Cultivate Strength and enforce your will.
Mankind is governed by violence still;
Cultivate Strength, the sublime resource;
Courage xnA strength are affinitive force .
Cultivate Strength to resist disease,
Germs of infection the feeblest seize;
Cultivate Strength, and no colds endure—
Bely on Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
lS«eJ«geg
THis BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to, Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address .
DLYSAG Hr
3
O
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
' Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
'Si
V
r
’S-li
NEVER AGAIN THAT
WORN, WEAK LOOK!
I
Wj
Stop Backache
& Rheumatism
GET BACK THE JOYFUL ACTIVITY OF YOUTH!
You can now put an end to those aches
and pains that rob you of all joy in
life ... an end to that tired, aged,
“all gone *’ feeling that sends you
early to bed at night restless and
dispirited, while others are just begin-
ning the evening’s recreation! Such
premature conditions of old age are
usually due to uric acid or urinary
trouble, and the remedy is Harrison’s
Pills. These will give you back the
elastic step of Youth —will make ypu
feel years younger, unhampered by
backache, bladder weakness, rheuma-
tism and the like! Harrison’s Pills
form the one remedy that genuinely
gets at the uric acid cause of stiffness.
dizziness, and ageing symptoms gene*
rally. A single dose of Harrison’s
Pills proves their worth! Hundreds
of testimonials have been sent in by
people who gained benefit from them
after other well-known methods of
treatment had failed. If YOU want
to get free from your urie acid handi-
cap —if you would know the joy of
renewed vigor, free from pain and
nervous ‘ c dizzy ’ ’ spells, just get a
package of Harrison’s Pills from the
nearest chemist or store. Three sizes:
2/-, 3/- and 5/-. If not pleased with
the improvement in your health,
strength and bearing after .just a
single trial, you can have your money
back! Good-bye to aches and pains!
Remove the Cause of Rheumatism, Backache & Bladder Troubles
If no Chemist near, order by post from Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.) ,
AN IDEAL WINTER HOME. The most sheltered spot on the Harbor.
Incomparable for Comfort. Excellent Cuisine and Service Private Beach
and Amphitheatre Baths. Spacious Grounds an<J Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4 2 Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast if required. Luncheons, Afternoon Teas, Dinners
P.
Delightm 21-minutes’ trip jrom Cit V Y 3012, 4 Lines.
Holds 50$ More Ink
maxemaai
©j}©©
l'*
Make Onoto your Pen —It is a great time-
saver and the best writing instrument it is
Eossible to obtain, and the fact that it
olds -50 per cent, more ink than any
other self-filling pen has gained for Onoto,
the Pen, the first place.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & 00. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row. London, E.C. 1.
Representatives : Norman Baker & Longhurs*
50 York Street, Sydney.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
THE MOUTH THE GATEWAY for DISEASE.
Scientists have proved conclusively that no fewer
than 38 different infections may be traced to the
human mouth as a starting point. The mouth thus
being the gateway for the entrance of disease, it
is here that precautions are most necessary.
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes
Ate the must powerful, safe and pleasant Germi-
cide and Antiseptic known. Beihs- destructive ' to
all organises which give rise to infectious diseases,
thev keep the mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
The Lancet (London) states:—“Their purpose is to
act as a bactericide in the mouth. This result ft
J'kelv tt> be gained, for in the experiments tttW
Eumenthol JuJUbes proved to be as effective me*
ttricidaDy as is creosote.”
I/O a Tin.
sdf
A. The Larynx <*
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea o'
Windpipe.
O. The Bronchi*'
Tubes of Dissects
Lung. .
D. The Lobe oi
of the Lungs,
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis and Influenza.
The Red Page
The Spirit of Australian Poetry
A study of Australian poetry as written
at the present time reveals a curious para-
dox. Our country is unique in its natural
conditions, and its people are rapidly achiev-
ing an individuality which marks them as
a nation, if not yet a new race. But our
poets, who are supposed to reflect the inner
spirit of their country, are concerned very
little with it, and prefer to write in the
British idiom. I have put this often to
many of them and they only smile and say,
‘ You want us to write bush ballads! 1 ' There
is no Australian contemporary poetry in the
sense that there is an American contem-
porary poetry. Recent Australian verse
gives an impression of literary capacity, ov
an ability to convey thoughts and feelings
and impressions quite ably, of a sometimes
delightful music, a sense of color, and some
apprehension of the more familiar beauties
of the sylvan scene. But the inner life
and character of the nation is but lightly
touched upon, and the sylvan sfcene por-
trayed is usually that of the picture-post-
card.
Yet we have in our midst to-day many
able and even inspired poets, the best of
i;hem apparently “resting on their laurels,”
;o whom we owe grateful thanks for keep-
ing Australia on the literary map during
the present century. To Bernard O’Dowd
and to Furnley Maurice we are indebted
for two real Australian poems of import-
ance during recent years, “The Bush” and
“The Gully,” which give large pictures of
our country" and convey a distinct sense of
the national spirit. Yet even these master-
pieces are of the study rather than the
open air, as of an artist painting a land-
scape indoors. Eloquent and inspiring, with
organ-tones of a sonorous melody, “The
Bush” is, in its latter part, almost satisfy-
ing; but the poet, in his perversity, has
made the earlier stanzas sound like the
twitterings of a tin whistle, evidently in-
tended for the pipings of Pan. Furnley
Maurice is so much of a literary craftsman
that his love of nature and fellowship with
its philosophy have often tempted him off
the track in pursuit of a neat phrase, and
his shyness and modesty tempt him some-
times into cynical rejection of his own
enthusiasms. Until he abandons himself
to his muse he will be held back from
complete expression of his qualities.
Nearer to my ideal of a national poet is
Marie E. J. Pitt, who is highly emotional
and flings herself unrestrainedly into her
subject, be it the betterment of humanity
or the portrayal of some beloved spot or
some familiar character. Her temperament
is Celtic and her muse lyrical; her lines are
often haunting and her phrases apt and
even eloquent. It is Mary Gilmore
whose emotional quality makes the more
direct personal appeal, for her individual-
ity stands behind her poetry more than
does Mrs. Pitt’s. A certain masculinity in
her outlook is qualified by feminine sensi-
bility. She speaks out of her own know-
ledge and experience in a persuasive, elo-
quent voice, rough sometimes with un-
bridled emotion, characteristically Austra-
lian. Mary E. Fullerton is also of this
company of earnest women, but one sus-
pects her of a habit of reticence. It is not
by eloquence that she reveals her under-
standing of and sympathy with humanity,
but she draws what she sees with firm
strokes, very clear and precise and true.
Her'art is the antithesis of Shaw Neilson’s
delicate tracery, but it is not so broad as
Mrs. Gilmore’s. Unlike Neilson, she con-
templates people with shrewd eyes.
Neilson is conscious poignantly of the
pathos of life, yet contemplates it objec-
tively, with shy observation and a sense
of wonder. To him the pathetic is beauti-
ful, but he is much too sensitive to do
rrfbre than sing of it in his heart, turning
it into elfin music. Louis Lavater has
always been tranquil and genial in his
poetry, and he keeps himself well in hand
and is a great stickler for form and the
exact word. He touches life at many points,
but individually rather than nationally.
Though a composer of rich and thoughtful
music, his poetry has not the singing qual-
ity of Neilson’s, but it has a still beauty
and contemplative charm. Another on-
looker rather than one who plunges into
the stream of life is FrOdk T. Macartney,
whose poems are like miniatures, little pic-
tures of little things seen at close range,
having but small relation to the great
scheme of creation. He paints, as it were,
with a small brush in dry but brilliant
water-colors.
Dorothea Mackellar is a notable artist;
her work is seldom below its own high
standard, and Ruth M. Bedford is also an
excellent craftswoman. Miss Mackellar’s
art is more varied than Miss Bedford's, but
the latter shows more personality. Miss
Mackellar paints in glowing colors, but
with delicate touches. The poptical work
of Vance and Nettie Palmer, who evidently
view life and their art from the same angle,
is much less in quantity than one would
desire, for its quality is good and its spirit
is Australian. It shows earnestness and sin-
cerity, and were Mr. Palmer so minded he
could write poetry of consequence in which
this country would live again, for he more
than any of the others has the necessary
virility? 1 feeling and intimate knowledge
and sympathy, and'the directness of poetic
vision. Leslie H. Allen is somewhat too
austere for a poet, bqt accomplished some
fine masculine work, especially in his earlier
years. Much of his recent verse lacks sin-
cerity, but his earlier possessed strength if
lit tig warmth; there was a richness of tex-
ture excellent within its limits, and some
of these poems have an air of durability.
Lyrical in a high degree and Australian
in spirit are Elsie Cole (Mrs. A. H. Angel)
and Myra Morris, the latter exuberantly
youthful, the former more mature in her
outlook but scarcely less fresh and ani-
mated. Both delight in the fantastic, Elsie
Cole being more concerned with the
abstract, Miss Morris with the actual. Only
in the spirit of fantasy and in literary facil-
ity have these two poets any kinship; Elsie
Cole’s viewpoint is contemplative, Myra
Morris’s adventurous. Miss Morris has a
special gift of the luminous phrase and she
is a close and inquisitive observer.
Among the still younger, or at least
newer, poets at present writing, the most
conspicuous and promising include Llywelyn
Lucas, Lola Gornall, E. M. England, Violet
Townsend, Alan Gross, but pone of them
so far greatly concerned with the bigger
things that Australia is still waiting for
our poets to express adequately.
EDWARD A. VIDLER
Vale Donn Byrne!
Donn Byrne is dead; and we who love
an Ireland that we have not seen mourn
his passing to Tir Nan Og. For Donn
Byrne knew the land that comes to our
minds; not the islands at Innisfree or the
maidens of Elfin-Mere, But the “thatched
cottage on the mountain side, the thunder
of the hunt as it goes •' for Fairyhouse
River, the grave, soft Irish voices.”
More than the Anglicised singers who
make beautiful, delicate, heartless songs of
our memories, Byrne is close to Ireland.
He takes her for what she is; he has not
wooed her with exquisite airs and prancing
courtesies, for he knew that her candor
looks for candor and her heart for a whole
heart.
There is something in the Irish that will
not brbok schools or fashions. Ireland has
never understood the “Celtic revival,” has
never wholly welcomed it. Yeats and the
rest belong to English literature, to a
school, a coterie, a clique in English litera-
ture. The Irishman does not know what
they are about; his culture is of the heart;
not of the mind, and poetry for him is
something that sings on the hills and the
heaths. In the Irish poems there is the
wind blowing, and its pauses are the breaks
in the wind. The spirit of it is shut off
from the revival by the walls of the house,
and the poets who sit in the house have
forgotten its cold, clean lip on their cheeks.
Donn Byrne did not belong to the re-
vival. His mind turned away from it, from
its faeries and leprechauns, to the people
cutting the turf and men walking in the
city streets and Saul standing lonely in
Tarsus. That is what Ireland can under-
stand: the life of a man’s body and his
thought, the motions of his heart.
We have our leprechauns and faeries;
even I, three generations from Fermanagh,
can listen for the wailing of Bankeentha;
but “the folk” belong to the shadows of
the hills and the dark places of the mind,
and they are not a pretty legend to amuse
a lady in a drawing-room. To the Irish,
as to all people who go the way of the
heart rather than of the mind, these things
are real. But to those Irishmen who have
followed the English mind they are themes
and phrases and turns of speech. To Donn
Byrne they were real, as terribly real as a
gunman sprawling dead on a Dublin roof;
for Donn Byrne was a realistic artist, as
his people are a realistic people, the real
things being the things of the heart.
Romance is. a refinement of the. mind, and
it comes in closed places. Donn Byrne lived
too much in the air for such a thing, and
because he did not comprehend it he was
given instead the wisdom of a peasant sit-
ting in a cabin of Aran. y
Because he loved that which was near
him, we know that “Herself” has drawn
(Continued on page 5.)


Opportunities to save are plentiful in all Departments at
Anthony Horderns’
Axminster
Carpet
Price 136
i \
NOW 9(6 yd.
During the Sale a large
quantity of Best Imperial
Quality Axminster Carpets
is offered at Special Clear-
ance Prices. Price quoted
are per running yard.
27in. Body Carpet. Price 13/6.
Reduced to 9/6
18in. Border Carpet. Price
12/-. Reduced to ... 8/6
1 Border Carpet. Price
ft/-. Reduced to .... 5/9
GENUINE
as
i 25?
88?
as.s
urn
•sss-
=-~«fes
My-
-ta#
HOft
1118
MsukuM'
5*S(
WifMm
MJU
3SS
Damask
Cloths
Price 5/11
Now 4(11 yd.
White Irish Linen Damask,
dependable quality, assorted
handsome designs. 70 inches
wide. Price per yard, 5/11.
Reduced to, per yard 4/13
Heavyweight Scotch Linen
Damask Cloths, exceptional
qualities in a large range of
beautiful assorted designs.
Size, 72 x 72 inches.
Price, each 22/6 27/6 32/-
Red. to .. . 19/6 25/- 29/6
Imperial Quality
Axminster Carpets
Fine Egyptian Design, as illustrated. In Grey,
Blue, Honey or Black Ground. A durable
quality.
27in. Body Carpet. Price 13/b
Reduced to 12/6
1 Bin. Border Carpet. Price 12/"
Reduced to 11/*
22-|in. wide for Hall or Stairs. Price 13/-
Reduced to 12/6
2 7in. wide for Hall or Stairs. Price. . 13/6
Reduced to 12/11
Linoleum Squares
Linoleum Squares possess many advantages.
They are easily laid, no trouble to keep
clean, and can be used equally well in
either Living Rooms, Hallways or Kitchens.
Lome Quality.
Reduced
0
6
6
6
6
6
0
0
0
0
6
0
0
0
0
Inlaid Linoleum Squares
Inlaid Linoleum Squares, many attractive
designs to select from. Renowned for dura-
bility. Recommended for places subject to
hard wear,
ft. in. ft. in.
9 0 x 6 0.. Price 39/6. Reduced to 35/-
9 0 x 7 6. .Price 49/6. Reduced to 42/6
9 0 x 9 0.. Price 59/6. Reduced to 52/6
10 6 x 9 0. .Price 69/6. Reduced to 59/6
12 0 x 9 0. .Price 79/6. Reduced to 69/6
Carriage Not Paid on these Goods.
Anthony Horderns * guarantee
the “ Truth and Accuracy ” of
every printed statement made
by them just as they do satis -
faction complete and absolute.
Kitchen Towels, 6 for 3/11 \
Size 23x3! inches. White with Red Border.
Reduced to, unhemmed ..... 6 for 3/11 \
Tea and Glass Towels
Size 23 x 30 inches. Typed, lea or Glass.
Reduced to, unhemmed 6 for 4/11
Kitchen Towels at Sale Price
Size 29 x 35 inches. All Linen. Hemmed.
Price, each 1/4 1/7 1/10
Reduced to, each .. 1/3 1/6 1/8
Twill, typed “Kitchen.” Hemmed.
Size, inches— 23x32 24x35 24x36
Price, each 1/4 1/7 2/-
Reduced to, each .. 1/2 1/5 1/10
Size 30 x 36 inches. Plain and Twill, typed
"Kitchen.” Hemmed. Price ....... 2/2
Reduced to, each 2/-
Bargains in Kitchen Towelling
All Linen Kitchen Towelling.
Width, inches — 2 7 26 29 29 29
Price, per yard.. I/- 1/1 1/3 1/6 1/9
Red. to, per yd. -/10£ 1/- 1/2 1/5 1/7
All Linen Kitchen Towelling.
USE OUR D.P.S.
Take advantage of the genuine
reductions now offered. Use our
“Deposit-Purchase System." Simply
leave a small deposit, paying the
balance in convenient instalments.
No interest or extra charge. Goods
are carefully stored until fully paid
for.
Reversible Wool Rugs
“Hordernia” Reversible Wool Rugs. British
manufacture. Large variety of Colorings to
match any color scheme,
ft. in. ft. in.
3 9 x 2 0 Price 13/ 1 1 . Reduced to 12/11
4 0 x 2 3 Price 15/ 1 1. Reduced to 14/9
4 10x2 6 Price 21/-. Reduced to 19/6
5 6 x 2 9 Price 27/6. Reduced to 25/6
6 0 x 3 0 Price 31/6. Reduced to 29/6
7 0 x 4 0 Price 49/6. Reduced to 47/6
1
“Hordura” (RegcL) Sheets
Obtainable only at Anthony Horderns’ and
carry their absolute guarantee. Manufac-
tured from super-quality Cotton. White,
Plain or Twill. The Red "Hordura” label is
seen on every sheet.
54in. x 90in. Single Bed. Price. ... 11/3
Reduced to, pair 10/3
63in. x 90in. Large Single Bed. Price 13/3
Reduced to, pair 12/3
72in. x lOOin. f Bed. Price 16/3
Reduced to, pair 14/11
80in. x lOOin. Double Bed. Price.. 17/11
Reduced to, pair 16/3
90in. x 1 08in. Large Double Bed. Price 21/9
Reduced to, pair 19/11
Special Purchase Heavy
White Twill Sheeting
Plain Pillow Cases
Plain Pillow Cases, made from the well-
known Horrockses’ reliable linen-finish
Pillow Cotton, in four distinct qualities.
Linen Double Damask
Superior Qualities Linen Double Damask.
Quality No. 1 2 3 4 5
Inches wide 54 54 63 72 72
Price, per yard 4/1 1 5/1 1 5/1 I 6/6 7/6
Red. to, per yd. 4/6 5/6 5/8 6/2 7/2
Quality No.— 6 7 8 9 10
Inches wide— 72 72 72 72 88
Price, per yd. 9/11 10/6 12/6 15/6 14/11
Red. to, yd. .. 9/3 9/9 11/6 14/6 13/6
Irish Linen Serviettes
Special Sale Offering. Three distinct quali-
ties of Irish Linen Serviettes, to be cleared
at greatly reduced prices.* Assorted designs.
Size 22 x 22 inches.
No. 1
Price, per dozen .. 19/11
Reduced to, per doz. 15/-
2 2
22/6 27/6
17/- 20/-
Carriage Not Paid on these Goods.
Anthony Horderns 1
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O .


MORE ROOM ♦ MORE POWER ♦ MORE BEAUTY
r^A
1
xlini'iiiimuiuMiy
.pjSffANEO US
<*MfW «
s
$
ERSKINE SIX CLUB SEDAN
Unprecedented sales have followed the
introduction of Studebaker’s bigger,
roomier, more powerful ERSKINE SIX
Club Sedan— such value has never before
been offered at so low a price .
Comfortable—spacious lots of head
and leg room front and rear —doors
nearly a yard wide—rear seats four feet
wide—shock absorbers front and rear—
new amplified-action four-wheel brakes
—new feather-touch steering and a new
economy system which after first 1000
miles eliminates all oil and grease
changes, except at 2500-mile intervals.
Immediately Studebaker’s new 43 horse-
power ERSKINE SIX is delivered you
can speed away at 40 miles an hour —
later, 62 miles an hour! No need to
suffer the old monotonous 20-miles-an-
hour breaking-in process.
Such speed at the outset is practicable,
first, because the ERSKINE SIX is built
by Studebaker with exacting precision,
hitherto found only in the most expensive
cars; second, because only the highest-
quality materials are employed; and,
third, because all work is checked and
rechecked by hundreds of rigid inspec-
tions.
Take Studebaker’s New ERSKINE SIX
on a test run TO-DAY!
Erskine Models from £298 to £448
Director Models from £378 to £570
Commander Models from £560 to £650
President Models from £665 to £875
All New Models equipped with shock absorbers and four-wheel brakes.
PRICES F.O.R. SYDNEY.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Limited,
4* 16 YURONG STREET, SYDNEY (just behind the Museum)
VICTORIA :
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston St
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd.
41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.)
Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important towns.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Millingens, Limited,
4 2*48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Adams Ltd., 152*154 High Street
Christchurch,
WEP
STUD E BAKER.
Stndebuker holds all the Ugliest Speed and En lurance Reeords for fuly equipped Stock Cars in Australia and America,


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
sd
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
liim “into her arms and put a quiet on
him,” and cradles him in the Assured Lana
where are “the thrushes and the wrestling,
the poems and the greyhounds and chim-
in'; rivers.”
D.P. McGUIRE.
Making Methuselahs
Modem medical thought, in its job of
making undertakers unhappy, has turned
very definitely from the germs to the
glands. The grip on the germs is, of course,
being maintained and strengthened; the
conquest in that direction has extended
the expectation of life in such a manner
that there is a reasonable hope for every
person who reaches the age of 20 reaching
also 70; and in the future the person who
dies of anything but old age may be re-
garded as the victim of an unfortunate
accident. Even to-day it is a bit of ill-
luck for anyone who gets diphtheria to die
of- it; yet diphtheria was esteemed as
deadly as the cobra less than half a Qgntury
ago.
For the making of Methuselahs and the
extension of the activity of life whilst it
lasts, however, the glands are being in-
vestigated with results that are attracting
the serious notice of even that section of
the medical profession which only recently
was scoffingly hostile. The surgeon is to
be the future engineer of the human mach-
inery, using the glands as his oilcan.
Glands once thought to be merely sur-
vivals whose use in the body had been
supplanted have, it has been found, a
direct bearing on the health of the mind
and body and the determination of the
human personality. In The Glands of
Destiny (Heinemann; Angus and Robert-
son) Ivo Geikie Cobb, M.D., pursues the
consideration of the subject in the spirit
of one who reports an adventure of ex-
ploration, admitting that surveys of the
new country are yet imperfect.
There is a suggestion that idiocy may
be cured by the stimulation of the thyroid
gland; when that mystery of the neck is
deficient in its secretions the result is
mental deficiency, whilst too great a
secretion may demand other penalties.
Neurasthenia is a recent discovery amongst
the illnesses, for which, before it was recog-
nised, many soldiers were probably shot;
and, since the cause has been traced to
the adrenal gland, which is affected by
terror or shock, a remedy may be found
there also.
The most interesting of the gland experi-
ments are those of Voronoff and his con-
freres, who have proved their case that the
several organs carry glands which are the
determinators of sex and configuration.
They have actually changed the sexes of
animals by gland grafting. The animals
have developed under the treatment from
the female to the male characteristics of
appearance and qualities, including coin-
bativeness, and vice versa. The experiments
have not been limited to sexual changes.
It has been found that, by grafting the
glands, new activity of secretion can be
promoted that renews the virility of the
animals treated.
Dr. Cobb says that the conclusions are
still largely speculative; yet those tests
made on animals have shown such a large
measure of success that, although there is
not the same opportunity to experiment on
human beings, and any such experiments
can only be of a minor kind, there is at
least promise of greater things.
There are obstacles in the way; the
danger of putting new wine into old bottles
is one of them. An obvious peril exists
in an impulse to new energy in one whose
arteries are too old to stand the strain.
That has been the cause of at least one
death. “Rejuvenated” by gland treat-
ment, a man decided in an excess of new
enthusiasm to tell the world all about it;
but, forgetting his old tissues, he overdid
his lecturing campaign and died suddenly
of over-exertion. Yet it is reasonable to
suppose that, when the glands, their work
and the methods of treating them, are
t etter understood, a stride will be taken to-
wards the old medical ambition of making
Methuselahs.
Whether it is desirable or not for human
life to be extended may be a matter of
opinion or liver (possibly changeable in
the pessimist of the future by the use of
some gland capable of creating cheerful-
ness). All the same, there is ample evi-
dence that a new world of great possible
benefit to humanity is being explored.
H.M.
“The Inspired Vagabond”
Mention of Herbert Edward Palmer (R.P.
20/6/’2B) as the author of “The Judgment
of Francois Villon” brings to mind
memories of my old school at which “H.E.”
was a master. Never in its long history had
St. Albans School, England, a less suitable
master of boys or a more inspired genius.
He was, and continues, a caricaturist’s
dream-model of an absent-minded poet.
Thin, bony, uncut shock of black hair,
straggling moustache, often unshaven, red-
rimmed and sorrowful eyes, awful-fitting
clothes just thrown on —he still is a well-
known character in St. Albans streets. With
one hand gripping a lapel of his jacket
he would wander criss-cross over pavements
and roads, oblivious of pedestrians and
vehicles, absorbed in his own fancies. Small
wonder that the scholars, to whom “H.E.”
endeavored to teach English and general
literature, found him an excellent target for
their raggings and bullyings. He was
utterly incapable of keeping order, and the
cruel nature of boys took every advantage
of this weakness. I have seen him well-
nigh demented under these tortures.
Yet his knowledge of classics and litera-
ture is profound, his own poems and plays
are wonderful compositions of imagination
and literary worth, and after many years’
struggling his work is reaping the atten-
tion that it merits. He is no longer a
school teacher. He remains, however, the
complete self-absorbed idealist, utterly un-
conventional in dress and demeanor, but
one of the most interesting personalities
to converse with on any branch of literature.
Martyn Whyte.
4
A Satchel of Books
Duel in the Dark, by Marguei-ite Steen.
(Bles). Lisa at 19 is overshadowed by her
grandmother, who has been a great actress
and a great beauty. The duel is the clash-
ing of two natures, both creative, botth
egotistical to the last degree. Artificial, but
extremely well done.
The Mystery of the Blue Train, by Agatha
Christie (Collins). An American million-
aire, Russian Crown rubies and a murder
on the luxurious train on which only the
very rich travel supply Hercule Poirot, the
inimitable detective of Agatha Christie’s in-
vention, with a mystery worth unravelling.
A good yarn for the lover of thrills.
The (Janu: and the Candle, by Margaret
Kennedy (Heinemann). A study of two
sisters. One has thrown her cap over the
windmill (not a very high or gay wind-
mill), and the other, feeling herself cheated
by life, has married into suburban gentility.
A clever bit of character drawing, as vividly
done as one would expect from the author
of “The Constant Nymph.”
Kenya Calling, by Nora Strange (Stanley
Paul). A romantic story written about the
part of Africa which has had a lot of adver-
tisement of one sort and another lately.
However, this is a rather noveletty yarn
about a young and fascinating widow who
goes out to live with her dead husband’s
cousin on her coffee plantation. The neigh-
bor is a cynical, handsome, haughty English-
man. But, of course, love conquers all—her
memories of past married bliss and his un-
belief in womanhood due to a past married
blister.
The Case for Christianity, by C. F. Rogers
(Allen and Unwin). “For eight years,”
Professor Rogers says, “I stood up for an hour
every Sunday afternoon in Hyde Park and
allowed myself to be. heckled”; in that time
he surely had flung at him all the posers of
the sceptics and the infidels. This substan-
tial book is one of the results; and if it
isn’t as conclusive as some of us would like
someone or something to be, it at least riddles
his opponents, from Reinach to Wells and
McCabe.
Ashenden, by Somerset Maugham (Heine-
mann). Here is literature in a series of
short stories written around the activities
of a British secret-service agent in war-time
Europe. In cold, moonlight-clear language
he tells of the men and women caught in
the red web. Ashenden is the British
“agent,” and the reader feels that Aslien-
den’s heart is drained by his being the in-
strument for tragedy in the lives of men
and women who, apart from this dance of
Avar, are ardent lovers or happy husbands and
wives.
Motoring Without Fears, by Lord Cotten-
liam (Methuen). This little book is full of
good advice. Most motorists will have heard
nearly all of it before; the trouble is that
many can’t see when to apply it. This book
should help them. “Deliberation and concen-
tration” is my lord’s motto; it is the waverer
avlio makes trouble —and he suggests deli-
cately that this is Avhy women drivers are
feared by experienced males. Among count-
less hints is “When in doubt, change down.”
More escapes from tight places are accom-
plished by accelerating than by using the
brakes; thousands of accidents happen be-
cause the driver has no acceleration Avhen he
most needs it. There is an excellent chapter,
too, on skidding.
Politicians and the War, by Lord Beaver-
brook (Thornton Butterwortli). The writer,
once Max Aitken, of Canada, Avhosc finan-
cial coups gave him the wealth to become
a London newspaper magnate, and Avhose
astuteness, self-confidence and tremendous
energy won him a minor place in the Gov-
ernment in the latter stages of the war, here
gives some interesting valuations of the
great men who conducted the affairs of the
nation from the beginning of the Avar to
the end of 1916. These valuations are inci-
dental to a history of the changes and in-
trigues which occurred during that period.
Some of his analyses are very frank, yet
there is a geniality about the most critical
of his studies.
London, by George H. Cunningham
(Dent). The thoroughgoing American tour-
ist who loves to make his peregrinations with
a guidebook in his hands will love this
volume, weighty though it is. The streets
and courts and alleys are arranged alpha-
betically; the author takes you up and down
them, and stops at every number where re-
search has shown that any notable person
has lived or any notable event has happened.
Here, for example, is Fleet-street. In a
couple of minutes’ talk about the history
of it, in which you learn that it was a
Roman highway and used to be the Fleet
Bridge-road, and that even in Dr. Johnson’s
t ; me the footpaths were unpaved and a
gutter ran doAvn the middle of the carriage-
way, you enter the Temple Bar, and at
No. 1 come to where a goldsmith named
Wheeler started a side-line which Child, his
son-in-law and successor, turned into Child’s
Bank, the first private bank in England—it
was merged only the other day with Glyn,
Mills and Co., after 360 years. And out-
side it you may, if your imagination is in
good working order, still see Jerry Cruncher;
for Tellson’s Bank, as Dickens called it, was
Jerry’s favorite stand. The value of the
book is enormously enhanced by a most
comprehensive index —no better indexing job
is known to the Red Page.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be return ed unless stamps accompany.
G. St. C.: Some of the rhymes rocked
the office. “Naught—talk’’ for instance... .Marjorie
F.: Same to you — e.g., “one —hum” Quack:
Six weeks too late for The B. The co. has been in
Melbourne... .Franklin: Rather appealing story; but
in real life that couple would have bolted for the
doctor... .Irene W. J.: “Fine —winds” settled it.
. ...0.A.J.: You do drag it out... .A.C.W.: Nearly
right... .H. 8.: It’s all gloom—not even John’s
manhood relieves it....K.M.: Even work, but
mechanical... .Richard L.: Tedious... .H.A.L.:
Merely “distance lends enchantment” amplified....
Jen D.: You ought to know that “blitne” rhymes
with “slimy,” not “slime”... .P.J.T.: “Evening”
was hurled into “the valley’s dark’ning glen”
T.D.M.G.: The Westralian Statistician’s figures don’t
support you. Of 2799 persons employed in forest
sawmills on June 30, 1927, 2448 were of British
descent Bet K.: Far from convincing Fran.
K. : The girl who feared to face-powder is a small
circumstance... .Ernest A.: The basket has it....
L. : Artificial F.A.W.: Frail little story
Wayfarer: The nightmare whirled itself out of the
office... .Edward: We don’t care for it Chas. H.:
Yes; it in a boomerang.... Kit 1).: It’s all there—
even to the identifying birth-mark C.lr.: If ever
you sin again, write on one side of the paper only.
L.A. (Los Angeles): Not in our line... .G.D.T.:
Too much question and answer about it... .W.G.H. •
Lacks Australian interest.... J.P.M.: Doesn’t quite
justify its length P.W.R.: Been done before with
a local setting—and it’s only worth par. space, any-
way.... Fair T.: Not a story; merely an account
of the receipt of a letter Brian J.: The fog inci-
dent is too old for revival. Other just fails....
Bob H.: It hurts us to reject “A Girl’s Power, or
the Influence of Another’s Crime” Triangle:
They’re too longwinded... .C.C.W.: “Calamity”
was a good name for it... .Whyte L.: Not enough in
the yarn for more than a half-column story....
Bloode: You can’t fly with the lady “in Doveland”
in these pages P.M.: Try polishing it
Norma L. D.: Verse-picture lacks force... .J.L.M.:
“The Successful” is not amongst thqm Monte H.:
Why spoil, it by trite phrases like “nature’s ban” ?
. ...A.E.W.: The story makes another corpse....
Helen C.: “Tears” shed in vain A.S,: The yarn
merely wanders from one thing to another. . . .Denis
F. D.: Not in our way of business —would have to be
crisper if they were. You ought to be able to write
pars Harry L.: It impresses; but you could im-
prove it. .. .Wm. C.: You’re too fond of gems like
“Over mellifluent waters where the sunbeams corus-
cate”... .E.H.S.: The story is not well handled....
J.S.W.: Those cats have exhausted a hundred times
more than their nine lives... .Paul H.: The new
dish doesn’t make the old hash any tastier....
M. : A few unimportant thoughts on a. holiday....
Leslie M.: Like the storm, it died out... .R.L.W.:
The old man must have been a bit cracked, the
same as the glass... .R.J.0.: A loser... .W.H.S.:
It bored us. ...D.S.: That sort of yarn needs much
brighter treatment... .T.E.S.: “Go Getter' does no
business.... H.C.M.: If you were as slow at pea-
picking as you are at getting on with the yarn, no
wonder you earned so little. .. .W.H.R.: “Auntie”
exiled... .Hop B.: Treatment not effective....
Coralie: Pale love story. And why the wordy descrip-
tion of family affairs of no moment to the story?
Alanmel: No, it’s not; but there’s no kick.
....Cromarty: There are rocks in your hi 115....
Aby Aitch: Very ancient joke. .. .Viola G.: Your
idea that the caged lioness may console the caged
lion is a tender thought.... Louis C.: It sank into
its tomb T.8.D.; “Of such is the kingdom of
heaving” is its one bright spot Eyre W.: A
good attempt at whimsical murder; but the- point or
the light weapon bent.... Doric: No to your “Ques-
tion” G.D.S.; That merchant has grown too old.
B.G.M.: Your humor is spoken in the American
language Helena H.: Occasionally very good, but
sometimes almost grotesque... .May W.: Rough
J.W.R.R.: Doggerel.... 11. J. 8.: Rubbish... .James
D.: Poorly told P.K.P.: It jog-trots on its dreary
way L.R.Y.: Too much water in “Milk”....
8.D.L.: The “verse” isn’t even that... .F.C.: Though
you say “There are times when we lack courage for
to answer yes or no,” we found it no strain....
Frank S.: No, the thing would have to be dealt with
in much smaller compass. And rhyme should be no
excuse for tedious length... .V.M.J.: The sentiment
of the last bit is incongruous with the flippancy of
the rest R.J.1.: Verse about make-believe is
make-believe as verse Mary P.: “Silent” will
wake no echoes E.L.P.: Traffic spasm moved on.
Dun: Watch for publication, if used, and then
forward claim for payment L.C.W.: Common-
places J.H.: The blank verse has no dash hope.
... .C.M.R.: Firmly decline to roam with y0u....
R.M.K.: The ungrammatical effusion is parsed 0ut....
P.A.: Sincere, but feeble Wadgi: Your old pipe
won’t draw a cent... .A. Wills J.: Instead of a laugh
you make a spasm of virtuous indignation of it....
Gee M. C.: The office executioner did his duty.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.E.: Not what we want; come again L.L.;
Uneven and scratchy R.L.N.: Exit that “Shriek
of Araby” E.R.8.: Go to the bottom of the class.
P.O.D.: A little too fine for newspaper repro-
duction W.H.C.J.: Sorry, but we haven’t any
open spaces for him to fi11... .A. 8.: No encores, thank
you J.H.: Never! F. 8.: Hopeless drawing;
old joke E.L. : Take it away G.L.: Keep on
making jokes, but drop art....E.M.5.: Didn’t find it
entertaining R.R.H.: One of the week’s failures.
G.B.: You’ll need a stern teacher to cure you
of your faults A.W.: Burn your T-squares and
rulers and get down to some freehand work....
A. : It’s on its way home.... J.W.: Line work
as wobbly as the track of a sozzled motorist....
B. : Shows distinct promise A.K.: Sugges-
tions failed J.D.: Pointless C.J.C.: Clip your
wings and begin at the bottom again... .L.C.: Would
stand a lot of polishing R.H.M.: Strained mala-
propism. C.F.L.: Too harsh... .F.A.M.G.: A copy
is not a true test. Could only judge from original
work P.R.: Discard drawing and try a juvenile
comic paper with joke D.F.: Fact that park-
benchers now wear boxing gloves upon their feet
noted with interest.


f
I i
m m
if
mmm ' -
fM
A
1
m
/
/
KM
v*
\
Pi
-j
I ■ |
i,
.>
r-: I
f.
[ _ ■ y*
’ * /
/■?
i jiiiii
* i -
''' . i
wm
m
sd
fs


The Bulletin
Vol. 49.—N0. 2527.
July 18, 1928.
THE CRIME HUNTERS.
“The N.S.W. Government proposes to send three detectives abroad to find out why so many criminals escape.”
“THE BULLETIN” suggests as an alternative that a few cameras be exported.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the 'White Man.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the ofhee of tne
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
Brisbane Office: 249 Adelaide Street.
London Office : 36 Southampton Street, Strand,
W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly.
12 months, £1 J/S.; 6 months, 12s. (id,.; 3 months, Is.
To any address Ovf.rseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; o
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to t.ie
Manager.
Special Notice.
AIL correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8..
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
' The Kditor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications fop return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for tlie preservation or transmission 01 MS.
To Amateurs in Black and AVliite.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
in tlie Alain Hall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Cordon and Gotch, 15-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.h; and W. Dawson and Sons.
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.h;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” J/Vrll Australia House, Strand, London,
IPX'. 2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency. Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana nouse, Durban ;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni Newt
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 I Vest Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: llrentano’s, sth Avenue and 21th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and h~nd Street, New York City; Ilotuling’s
News Agency, 203 I Vest I/lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle. Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 101/ Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.: The Wide World News
Stand, 51/11 South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Smith Bros.’ News Co., Box 513 Arcade Station, Los
Angeles, Cal.; and from the Barber on Union S.S,
Co.’s and Matson Co.’s mail boats.
Egypt.— Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hono Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
China*: —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, S.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon.— T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street.
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bookstall, Galle 'Face Hotel,
Colombo; M. Atmaram and Sons, 1/1/ Chatham Street,
Fort Colombo ; A. A'. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York
Street, Fort Colombo; The Colonial Photographic
Co., York Arcade, Fort Colombo.
Papua.- —Whitten Bros.. Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 15-19 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.h.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East Erie Street ,
A T . Michigan Boulevarde. Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji :
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 1/oz. to 10oz., lid.; each'
additional hoz.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: hoz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, ?.oz., Id.
jSte'i&xilleiMi.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 18* 1928.
SEX-STUFF AND CRIME.
The public conscience has been disturbed
by a succession of abominable sexual crimes,
made thrice abominable in certain notori-
ous instances by sadistic savagery resulting
in death or shocking injury to the victims.
Two strange and terrible cases were re-
cently reported from Westralia, a State in
which crimes of passion have hitherto been
rare—on the goldfields in the roaring years
they were quite unknown—and whose mur-
der rate was not long ago declared in the
Saturday Evening Post to be the lowest
in the world. In the first case a young
immigrant was hanged for outraging and
murdering a settler’s little daughter. In
the second, another young immigrant sur-
rendered to the .police after shooting a
Digger-farmer and making ferocious assaults
on the wife thus widowed and her three child-
ren. The portraits of both men have been
published, and they by no means conform
to popular ideas of what fiendish criminals
look like. The faces suggest weakness
rather than brutality and are not at all
repulsive. Their owners would have passed
in any crowd as mild and respectable
members of society; and such they almost
certainly would have been in times not
crowded with unhealthv excitements.
* * * *
This is a trying age for young men with
weak wills and strong sexual passions.
Wherever they go they are confronted with
appeals to the senses. In the streets there
are countless exhibitions of intimate femi-
nine attractions, carried far beyond the
point, at which the rational and the becom-
ing in dress meet. The “legitimate” theatres
and music-halls are mostly given over to
leg-shows, and outside the cinema theatres
(in newspaper advertisements also) there
are luscious pictures of young women sink-
ing in the amorous embraces of Hollywood
heroes. Inside, the seductions of loose
living are artfully suggested—indeed rape,
as well as adultery, is a favorite theme —
although the censors do their best. In the
dance-halls crowds of knuts and flappers
and roysterers shuffle round in the lascivious
movements of nigger-dances to the strains of
nigger-music, the words of which illiterately
proclaim the merits of “one-clock babies”
and the like. Numbers of the men bring
whisky flasks in their hip pockets, and
their particular females assist them to
absorb the contents—haven’t they seen it
done time and again in the pictures? The
lounges of fashionable hotels also abound
with more or less tipsy women in insuffici-
ent clothing. There is a steady output of
libidinous novels and bedroom biographies;
and there are pictorial journals which have
gone crazy about the young female of the
species and her underclothing (they even
send photographers to public tennis-courts
to get what they call “action-pictures” of
girls showing their bloomers) and which
present the half-naked bathing girl as a
goddess to be worshipped. This aphrodisiac
journalism has bred a taste for out-and-
out smut, and a paper which set out ro
gratify it by publishing full and particular
accounts of rape, divorce and affiliation
cases has had a tremendous vogue.
4 @ & Ig
The great majority of our young men
have healthy minds in healthy bodies, and
all the inflammatory influences enumerated
assail them in vain. But the effect on
moral weaklings and those with criminal
inclinations is, and must be, bad. Who
can doubt, indeed, that the persistent exag-
geration of sex in so many quarters, by
exciting the imaginations of morons, con-
tributes to these fearful ' crimes? A
strong body of Victorians has launched a
campaign against indecent journalism,
novels and bedroom biographies; and it is
a campaign which deserves sunport. But
it ought to be extended to suggestive pic-
tures and picture advertising and nigger-
dances and the baser forms of jazz balladry
at least.
THE WAR AGAINST WAR.
Frank B. Kellogg, who speaks for the U.S.A.
in this matter, got his “outlaw war”
notion from S. O. Levinson, a Chicago
company lawyer. It is not a complex idea.
It says in two words as much about war
as Lincoln said about democracy at Gettys-
burg in 11 when he gave the world the
formula: “Government of the people by
the people and for the people.” Kellogg
and Levinson, so far as the records go, saw
no war service. Lord Halsbury, who has
lately been attempting to impress upon the
House of Lords the horrible possibilities of
poison-gas air-raids, held a commission as
Major in the R.A.F. in the Great War.
Yet, in spite of his personal experience, he
does not go quite as far as his learned
brothers across the Atlantic, and would be
content if gas warfare was outlawed. But
that involves the whole question. Military
necessity knows no conventions. A man or
woman fighting for dear life against an un-
lawful aggressor is allowed by any code of
law, barbaric or civilised, to use any means
of defence available. Unlawful aggressors,
having put themselves outside the legal
pale, are not likely to respect rules and
regulations.
* _ * * *
What Lord Halsbury sees very clearly
is that the next big war—if there is to be
a next big war—is going to be far more
destructive of life and property than the
last. Possibilities of havoc that were barely
glimpsed when the bugles sounded the
Armistice in 1918 have been made grim cer-
tainties since. War has always been the great
breeding-ground for offensive and defensive
appliances. In the past it has been a mili-
tary axiom that every means of attack can
be met by an adequate defence. To some
extent that is true, but the fact remains
that the world never saw such slaughter as
happened in the 209 weeks of the war that
optimists have dubbed Armageddon. In
the wars of the past there were only two
sorts of frontiers to defend—land and sea
surfaces. Now there are two more—the
waters under the sea and the heavens above
—and a new and most terrible weapon has
been added to the world’s arsenals. Against
a surprise gas attack from the air a civilian
population has, so far as is known at present,
no defence. Lord Salisbury, speaking for
the Government in the House of Lords,
hinted that some means of defence had
been devised, but the best that Lord Ray-
leigh, most eminent of the scientists in the
House, could promise was that measures
might be invented.
* * =i= *
The case for outlawing war, viewed in
these lights, is a very strong .one. But
that does not help to solve the problem of
effectively outlawing it. The original League
of Nations’ idea was that eventually all
nations should disarm on the lines imposed
upon Germany under the Treaty of Ver-
sailles—no army, no navy, no fighting air
force and a police force that mustn’t exceed
the limits prescribed by the League. Peace
was to be preserved among the nations by
a comparatively small number of inter-
national police under the control of the
League. The world has compromised on
that notion. Efforts to make the manu-
facture of warfaring material, which gives
private corporations a vested interest in
war, a monopoly of governments have been
pigeon-holed, side-tracked or led into quick-
sands. Naval armament has been kept
within certain bounds by a treaty external
to the League, promoted by the only com-
pletely self-contained nation on the globe.
If the rest of the world sank to-morrow
Uncle Sam wouldn’t need to worry. The
acquiescence of his neighbors in his very
shrewd proposal may quite possibly have
been due to a slowly-growing conviction
that floating craft, don’t matter very much
in these days. But when it came to limi-
tation of submarines and air craft, there
was nothing doing.
* * * *
Still, as’matters stand, the world seems
inclined to agree with Levinson, Kellogg
and Co. that war ought to be outlawed. But
while everybody knows why, nobody knows
how. The Round Table, which discusses
international questions, as a rule, with im-
partiality and good sense, suggests that the
right to repel attack must be reserved by
every nation, but “as soon as the attack is
repelled violence must cease and pacific
means of settlement or redress m.ust be in-
volved.” If the attack is not repelled,
though, what is to happen? The only
answer is a big war to preserve peace, which,
as Euclid would say, is absurd. There is,
nevertheless, one ray of brightness in a
murky outlook—that, war is no longer
looked upon as the proper occupation of
mankind, but, at the best or worst, as a
regrettable necessity. Also it is getting
extremely dangerous for all hands and the
cook. In an age when the people who decree
wars are just as apt to get wiped out sud-
denly as the people who are sent to fight,
them, there is occasion for a great deal
of thought on the part of over-ambitious
rulers.
THE STRANGE DISAPPEARANCE OF
M. DOE WEN STEIN.
The story of the vanishment of the Belgian
millionaire Loeavenstein from an aeroplane
at a great height above the English Channel
involves a number of possibilities. It is
alleged that the rich man was on the vessel
and was plainly visible; that he ceased to
be visible; that it was beyond all possibility
that he hid himself in that confined space
and dodged off unobserved on arrival, leav-
ing no footprints; and that he couldn’t have
opened the door and stepped out because
experiment shows that it required the com-
bined strength of two men to open said
door against the rush of wind; and the in-
rush of the gale would make a shocking fuss
inside.
This opens up the possibility that three
or more men (possibly 12) opened the
door suddenly, and that two more threw the
millionaire out, and that all parties agreed
to say nothing about the rush of air. In
other words, that the entire human cargo
of the machine, bar Loewenstein himself,
consisted of a conspiracy, the possible
reason and object of which should be
searched for. There is, of course, a possi-
bility that the man might have opened the
door himself with a crowbar, or a screw-
jack, or a forest devil, and taken the imple-
ment with him to serve as ballast; but
unless he also took the rush of air with
him in' a paper bag, this leaves much to be
accounted for.
, Seeing that the lost man said he was
going to the lavatory just before his evapo-
ration, there arises a theory which calls
for much less elaboration. He may have
gone there, and straightway fallen through
a concealed trapdoor, similar to the one
used on a gallow r s. A single conspirator,
pulling a string outside the lavatory door,
would suffice to let any millionaire
through. If the floor has since been restored
to normal, or if a duplicate has been sub-
stituted for the original aeroplane, since
destroyed, all evidence is lost.
Oliver Doyle or Conan Lodge might
give a valuable opinion as to the door be-
ing opened by a supernatural power out-
side, and the unfortunate gentleman
removed by the Clutching Hand, combined
with the Face at the Window. Stories have
been told of persons who acquired incred-
ible wealth by means of a compact with
the Devil, which compact bound them to
hand over their souls on a given date.
These individuals have been called for very
suddenly, and have left no trace of the
way they went save a slight odor of brim-
stone, easily overpowered by petrol fuiiies.
None of them have returned. A compara-
tively recent case was that of the fat man
to whom one of Walter Besant’s heroes
sold his appetite.
A less feasible way out is the Disappear-
ance Disease, of which one of the first
cases was recorded in France. Two painters
on two tall ladders were painting a dead
wall. Suddenly one of tjiem heard a noise
as of the falling of light substances, and
realised that the adjacent ladder was empty.
At the bottom of it lay a paint pot, some
clothes and two boots. As the lost artisan
had been stone-broke all his life, no theory
of a compact with the Devil was permis-
sible, so a learned doctor proceeded to diag-
nose an insidious and painless complaint
which took off the victim suddenly and
saved burial expenses. The doctor himself
shortly afterwards died in a mental hospital,
declaring that he was invisible and had dis-
appeared himself. This surmise fails on
account of M. Loewenstein’s clothes, but
a search of the pawnshops might reveal
something.
When the throwing of Australian sea-
cooks overboard was mooted during the
recent food-boilers’ strike, it was assumed
that they would be launched in a sand-
bagged condition where no ships were in
sight. But, if five or any other number of
men throw a capitalist from a height into
crowded waters he might strike the waves,
alive but senseless, next door to a passing
ship. It might be days before he recovered
consciousness, especially on a diet of salt
beef and ship biscuit, and more especially
if the crew spoke a language which was
strange to him. If by the complexity of
events the craft was an old-fashioned
wooden barque, without wireless, and bound
home to Valparaiso with a mixed cargo, it
could easily be months before the unex-
pected passenger could cable an infuriated
statement of his wrongs from that busy
port, even if he could convince people of
his identity and obtain credit. And if some
bogus Loewenstein had cabled a story be-
fore him from some other port, the problem
might assume mammoth dimensions. No
one can say for certain what changes might
take place in the physical . appearance of
a man who struck the water from a height
of 4000 ft., and what doubts might arise,
particularly if he was a very ordinary-
looking party to begin with. This was
realised when a half-caste presented himself
as the dead son of Louis XVI.,. grown up,
and began explaining away the change in
his appearance.
JAMES EDMOND.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Word for the Boot.
The other day certain British subjects
deported from Samoa for seditious activi-
ties were refused permission to appeal to
the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council,
to which they had taken their grievances.
Counsel for the chief petitioner voiced the
plea that has so often been heard in similar
circumstances in Australia: the deportation
was “contrary to all established law and
natural justice.” The Judicial Committee
did not even call on counsel for the Crown,
but threw out the application unanimously.
In spite of much blither to the contrary,
it has never been denied by high authority
that every nation has the right to get rid
of its undesirables, just as every dog has
a right to expel his fleas. South Africa
taught the Empire a useful lesson by deport-
ing agitators en masse without trial. When
the tumult and the shouting died, it was
found that nothing had happened after the
expulsion. Outside a few fanatics, everyone
acquiesced in South Africa’s right to run
her affairs in her own fashion.
It seems a matter for regret that Australia
did not have the courage to act in the same
forthright way when her troubles with
undesirables began to pile up. So obsessed
with legal procedure and fatuous respect for
Mumbo Jumbo is the average Australian
authority that a state of affairs has been
allowed to grow up in this country which
is bringing upon it the contempt of its
friends and relations, to say nothing of
those that are neither. The practice hitherto
has been a half-hearted appeal to one sort
of legal tribunal or another, with the usual
horde of lawyers obstructing every avenue.
If legal proceedings are necessary at all, it
would be far better to let them emanate
from the element in our midst which gives
fresh proofs every day of its undesirability in
any civilised community—the said element,
of course, having been previously ejected
from the country and told to find out at
its own expense whether the procedure was
legal or not. Objectors to this excellent
system hint at the possibility of reprisals
if the friends of the heaved-out should come
into authority. That seems remote unless
the other side became as objectionable as
the deportees, which does not seem possible.
♦
Beware the Half-caste!
At first the Dutch Government of the East
Indies smiled upon miscegenation. Its
white mercenaries were served with a native
wife apiece as part of their barrack equip-
ment. The offspring were legalised, schools
were provided for their education, and they
were drafted into the lower jobs on the rail-
ways and the outskirts of th*e empire. Hol-
land being a small country, ill able to police
a colonial population now more than 50
millions strong, the idea dimly present in
the home Government’s mind was that here
was a way of shifting some of the white
man’s burden on to parti-colored shoulders.
But as is the way with biological phe-
nomena, the process got out of hand. The
Eurasians thrived and multiplied exceed-
ingly. They demanded higher education
and got it, and many of them went to
Holland and qualified for jobs even as high


aa that of colonial governor-general. So
Sanv of them made fortunes and retired to
the homeland that the white fountain
tended to become discolored at its source.
Rut, still more stayed m Java, some to be
come valuable oilmens, but more to form
a Tass of misfits, unable to qualify for
white-collar jobs and equally unable‘oeon-
* T°he oSy ouSeY for their repressed
tions lay in political agitation The dis-
gruntled Eurasian as a pohtmal stimulant
to the lethargic native is an old story in
Java. Pieter Erberfeld (1722), whose skull
still grins from his place of execution m
Batavia, was a half-caste who dreamed
of creating a great Eurasian empire
by massacring all the whites. It was
the half-caste descendant of a white
official, himself a fiery critic of he
Dutch regime, who paved the way to the
bomb-throwintl of 1923 It was the fans-
lations by half-castes of European commu-
nistic literature which led to the very serious
outbreak of two years ago.
Java, in short, is treading the same path
as did some of the South American colonies
of Spain. There the proud hidalgo raped
the frail Indian beauties and their progeny
raped the colonies from Spain In Java
the position is complicated by the presence
of strong squads of Arabs and yellow men.
and the struggle for power may be contused
and long; but it is the Eurasians who are
behind the never-ceasing demand for seii-
government.
A Handy Mother to Have.
The Hogans propose to furnish Victoria
with a new and long-overdue Money-
lenders Act by the simple process of adopt-
ing the English one. This is a bright new
measure which came into force only last
New Year’s Day, and it prohibits touting
for custom by circular or
personally, so far as the
money-lender is concerned,
the charging of exorbitant
interest (on this point it is
pretty strenuous), the run-
ning of loan businesses
under assumed names, and
a number of other disdeeds
The Premiers’ Conference
took a somewhat similar
step when it proposed thal
the British marriage and
divorce system
should be taken as
a model for all
Australia, thus pro-
curing uniformity,
saving labor and
not rousing the
dander of any
State by implying
that the law of
another State was
in any respects better than its own. And
if something of the same sort could be
done with company legislation it might
not be amiss. Since the House of Lords,
which had become unbearable, was mildly
but firmly put in its place in 1911, Brit-
ish legislation has advanced faster than
usual in many directions, but even before
that stirring event it was less antiquated
than is often supposed. Thus for a period
of about 30 years a law-book called “Pri-
deaux’s Precedents” was essential, and had
a high value in N. S. Wales, yet had prac-
tically no value in England, except for
export, because Britain had outgrown it
while N. S. Wales had not.
On the general appearance of things the
British money-lenders’ law should knock
out the hawker of cash orders, who cer-
tainly seems to be the tout of a very
usurious type of usurer; but it may be
insufficient to smite him in his lair. Mc-
Cormack, of Queensland, suggested to the
Premiers’ Conference that the States
should adopt uniform legislation in the
matter, but didn’t submit or suggest a
sample. Butler, of S. Australia, advised
that if any Government had some uni-
form legislation in its mind’s eye it should
send copies to its neighbors. After which
very inconclusive remarks the Conference
relapsed into a uniform silence.
+
Queensland’s Industrial Worries.
Some industrial statistics have made a be-
lated appearance from Queensland, and fill
up a staring gap which disfigured the recent
Federal quarterly. Their most notable
feature is that the State had 20 fewer fac-
tories at work and 2363 fewer factory-
hands working at June, 1927, than it had
a year earlier, and that the value of the
gross output had dropped by £4,573,101. It
was the only State save Westralia which
showed a decline in factory employment,
and the only one except Westralia which
showed a decline in the gross value of fac-
tory output. This is the second successive
year in which Queensland’s gross factory
output has shown a serious decline. The
total in the two years has been £7,814,000,
which is a serious disaster. And it is
sudden as well as serious.
In the value of manufacturing produc-
tion per head of population, Queensland’s
customary place has been last but one
among the mainland States, Westralia
being rearmost. But thanks in some mea-
sure to the subsidised sugar industry, the
value of gross output per employee has
been high, though the value added in pro-
cess of manufacture, and by the worker’s
own labor, has been nothing extraordinary
The year which ended with June, 1925,
was the culmination of Queensland’s pros-
perity'—on paper, anyhow. The alleged
gross value of its factory products was
£49,142,436. This was said to be £lOO5 of
gross production per worker, easily the
record among the States; but of that amount
only £334 represented the value of work
done, which was below the Commonwealth
average. The value of gross output per
head of population was £5B 17s. 2d., which
was also below the Commonwealth aver-
age. This explains why Queensland is a
large importer and a very poor pro-
vider for its own necessities. In the same
year, 1924-25, Queensland factory wages
soared above the Commonwealth average
for the first time in a number of years—
in fact, they rose quite regardless of the
value of the work done. Then things hap-
pened suddenly. The value of factory pro-
duction went down in two successive years,
though the wage rate paid out of it actu-
ally went up or was forced up. Naturally
the number of people who received the im-
proved wages diminished heavily.
The proportion of Queensland that is
under cultivation is small, its manufactures
are small, its debt and its taxation are
above the Australian level, and its poli-
tics consist far too much of a life-and-
death struggle on the part of the Continu-
ous Ryan-Theodore-Gillies-M cCorm ack
Government to hang on to office at any
price. Its party can hardly win a seat at
a Federal election, and wins very few at
a Greater Brisbane municipal election, but
at State polls it has done splendidly for
13 years and some odd weeks. The assumed
reason why it stands out firmly against the
economy of using the Federal roll for
State purposes is that with such a roll it
wouldn’t do splendidly any longer; in fact,
it wouldn’t do at all. It has been said that
Queensland won’t get rid of its Continu-
ous Ministry until it gets honest State
elections, and it won’t get honest State
elections until it gets rid of the Continu-
THE NEW SHOP.
“A Commonwealth loan of £7,000,000 has been badly received in London. The underwriters will
be left with most of it Sydney City Commissioners will be on the market shortly for £3,000,000.”
COMMISSIONER MORTON: “Old John looks a trifle rushed, doesn’t he? What about
you?”
ous Ministry. This recalls the definition
of a posthumous son as a son who died
before his father was born.
+
Concerning Shylocks.
“Bourri”: Where did Crawford Vaughan
(B. 13/6/’2B) get his figures? “Honor or
Dollars,” a critical investigation of the
war-debts question, puts it thus: “We
advanced our late associates something like
10 billion dollars, and now we demand its
repayment with 11 billion dollars more for
interest.” This extract is taken Irom a
petition presented to the President of the
U.S.A. by Frederick W. Peabody, an emi-
nent New England lawyer. One would con-
clude that he would be reasonably accurate
in his figures—within less than two billions,
anyway. Moreover, the book is filled with
statements by leading British, American
and European authorities, and in every case
except one the amounts, are as stated above.
The one exception gives principal as “some-
thing less than 9? billions” and interest as
“upwards of 11 billions.” It is a far cry
to Crawford Vaughan’s 7£ billions prin-
cipal—and he conveniently forgot to men-
tion the interest. Discounting at present
values appears to be an effort to support a
fallacy by an impossible and irrelevant
premise.
Anyway, supposing that Uncle Sam had
remitted 40 per cent, of the bond, would
that make his conduct in demanding pay-
ment for the safeguarding of his own hide
any the more creditable? For 15 months
after her declaration of participation
America’s contribution to the fighting forces
took the only form her unprepared state
permitted—money. With this money she
purchased lives—the lives of her army,
safely convoyed through the submarine
screen by the British fleet; the lives of that
proportion of the same army which would
have been lost in 15 months in France;
lastly, the lives of the allied troops who
took their places. Now, having already
received value, she demands the return ot
that money with interest a hundredfold.
It may be due—so, too, was Shylock's
bond; so were the Iscariot’s 30 pieces of
silver, also payment for a life.
4
The Burden of Proof.
The case of Nelson v. Campbell, decided
by the Full Court of Victoria, must exert
a far-reaching influence on the law affecting
business transactions generally in that State.
Briefly, A sued B for the repayment of
money lent. 13 admitted the loan but
alleged that he had repaid it. The magis-
trates were not satisfied one way or the
other, and dismissed the case. The com-
plainant appealed to the Full bench of the
Supreme Court, which upheld the magis-
trates’ decision. Theretofore it had been
considered generally that once a plaintiff
showed that the money had been lent, the
onus lay on the defendant of proving that
it had been repaid. Nelson v. Campbell
decides that the onus finally lies on the
plaintiff of establishing that the money has
not been repaid.
Though the actual decision is, of course,
confined to the case of money lent, the
words of the judgment clearly indicate
that the same principle applies to the entire
group of “debt cases.”
The judgment no doubt technically is
right; but the practical difficulties that
it opens up are very great. While
it is a comparatively simple thing for a
debtor to prove that the money said to be
owing has been paid, it may be infinitely
difficult to prove that it has not been paid.
Possibly (since most of these cases arise in
the police courts) amateur justice may it-
self discover a remedy, by finding as a fact,
in cases where the defendant does not,
satisfy them that the money has been paid,
that the plaintiff has satisfied them that it-
has not been paid.
Labor in South Africa.
Last week, after a struggle which has been
waged for a year past, the extreme element
in the S’Afriean Council of Labor, which
approximates to the A.L.P. Executive, ex-
pelled the moderates headed by Colonel
C reswell, Minister for Defence in the
Dutch-Labor Government. With him went
10 of his Parliamentary following, while
many leaders of Labor , outside the Parlia-
mentarians have also been cast into outer
darkness.
The situation forms an interesting parallel
to that which occurred in this country when
the Reds succeeded in capturing the A.L.P.
executive in N. S- Wales and declared
“black” the moderate Conroy faction and
all Labor men in Parliament and out sus-
pected of being in sympathy with it. In
the Australian instance the immediate result
was the defeat of a Labor Government
which had attempted to entrench itself in
N. S. Wales behind electoral boundaries of
its own devising. In the Federal sphere
the probable outcome will be the consign-
ing of the Labor party to “another 10 years
in the political wilderness,” to quote the
recent forecast of McCormack, Queensland’s
Labor Premier.
In S’Africa’s case it would seem that the
Red element will not only hopelessly dis-
integrate the Labor party in the Union, as
it has done in Australia, but will also bring
its Dutch allies in the Pact Government to
grief with it. Indeed, there have already
been indications that this will be the case,
for, even before the Red intrusion, Labor
was strongly divided over the Flag question.
The trend of popular feeling is now
markedly toward the return to power of the
British-Dutch S’Africans, who even in
Opposition are the strongest single party
in Union politics. The general elections
will be held not later than June, 1929.
Whatever the outcome of the latest Red
intrusion into the political affairs of the
Dominions, the stand of Creswell and his
followers is one for commendation. This
leader’s refusal to truckle to the extremists
for the sake of place and power is in strik-
ing contrast to the vacillating behavior of
many in Australian Federal and State
politics, who are even now bargaining
greedily with the holders of the Moscow 7
money-bags for a share of the 30 pieces of
silver.
«
Bogus Exhibitors.
“W.M.F.”: “Two Seas” (B. 27/6/’2B) writes
of exhibitors “obtaining money under false
pretences” at agricultural shows. He men-
tions the case of a man who, having no
farm, yet for years took prizes everywhere
with samples of plants he had grown. The
exhibitor grew all his own exhibits. True,
they were about all he did grow. But what
of that? He grew them, and he had a per-
fect right to exhibit them and get what
satisfaction he could out of the result.
The v 7 hole question of exhibits is a
thorny one. Most prizes are won not by
merit, but by polish. No horse judge will
consider a horse in the show ring that is
not properly prepared. The best hack in
Australia badly got up would be beaten by
any second-rater in first-class show order.
Prizes are for appearances, and the exhibitor
who can make the best show gets the award.
He is entitled to it.
Every sheepbreeder knows that in most
shows he has not a chance of a prize unless
he selects his sheep more than 12 months
beforehand. An attempt has been made to
overcome some of the difficulties by offer-
ing special prizes for certain exhibits that
have been shorn under supervision. But
these classes are not popular. Yet under
no other conditions can sheep shows be
made a real testing ground. With agricul-
tural exhibits it would be necessary to have
sworn declarations setting forth how, where
and by whom the produce was grown be-
fore anything of real value could accrue
to the seeker-after-knowledge.
But before going into the matter as seri-
ously as all that, it would be well to decide
this: Are agricultural shows for education
or amusement? Or is their chief value not
to be found in supplying a common meeting
ground for the exchange of ideas?
The New Hebrides.
“I. Ririki”: The Condominium Joint Court
of the New Hebrides assembled recently
in all its pomp, the president, Le Compte
Buena Esperanza, concurring in Spanish
with the opinions of the British Judge ex-
pressed in English and those of the French
Judge voiced in French that the claim
made by the Presbyterian Mission for the
Island of Iririki had been sustained; the
Court quite casually mentioned that the
claim had been made in 1913.
The Court, constituted in 1913, went into
recess in 1915, when the president journeyed
to Madrid on leave, and as he did not
return until 1927, land claims remained m
abeyance, the one referred to being the
first on which judgment has been delivered.
Others are pending; but as the Court went
on vacation for two months during the
hotter part of this year, claimants are not
very sanguine of any speeding up in what
is locally known as the Pandemonium
Court. Meantime, British settlers are getting
more fed up than ever, and in many
instances are selling out to the French
or turning their plantations into French
companies.
The British are willing and anxious to
have all the claims heard; but since August,
1927, when Mr. G. B. W. Smith-Rowse died,
there has been no British Resident Com-
missioner to fight their battles, and matters
have gone badly for them. The apathetic
manner in which Britain has acted regard-
ing the appointment of a Commissioner
suggests that she is not anxious to retain
any interests in the New Hebrides; yet this
is a valuable group of fertile islands, prob-
ably equal to Fiji if properly developed,
and geographically of extreme value to
Australian interests.
♦
The need for some institution to which vic-
tims of the drug habit in N. S. Wales may
go for free treatment becomes painfully
obvious. At present there is no place where
addicts may be helped to free themselves.
That they must Lave the enslaving drug is
officially recognised, and chemists have been
authorised to supply certified patients with
a daily ration, to be diminished by degrees
if the victim fails to arrange for proper
attention; but the sum-total of medical ex-
perience everywhere is that “ambulatory
treatment” is a failure. The person pos-
sessed of means can, of epurse, enter a
private hospital, but this is out of the
question for hundreds of poor creatures.
The institution necessary need not be exten-
sive. A portion of one of the public hospi-
tals would suffice.
_♦
Inter-State shipowners who had laughed at
the idea of a windjammer competing for
cargoes on the coast received a shock when
heavy bookings were recorded for the four-
masted auxiliary schooner Aneiura, which
is being tried on the Melbourne-Fremantlc
run. As a counter-move a western trip was
arranged for the freighter Mundalla, but
the owners of the Aneiura replied by quot-
ing 30s. a ton—Bs. lower than the rate for
general cargo charged by the Steamship
Owners’ Federation. So Australian coal-
miners may see another slice of bread and
butter slipping away from them. And strikes
won’t bring it back to them. The trouble
calls for quite a different medicine.


£.500
in Cash Prizes
“State Expressettes” is a fascinating Competition with
handsome prizes for the winners. See daily papers for
full particulars of this interesting Competition. Closing
date, September 8.
Send your entries without delay.
e§
1
20
for
1/6
ST9TEOPfyESS
335
CIGARETTES
777
SSc
m.
■
T!*>s
Nia
5*04 TU
s?cco
20
for
1/6
Ardath Tobacco Co., Ltd., London.
• . -
POLITICAL
POINTS
All the State Parliaments have now
accepted the Bruce-Page financial agreement,
under which the Commonwealth takes over the
State debts as at June 30, 1927, contributing
-plus 71 millions for interest 2s. 6d. p.c. to
sinking fund, and providing a ss. p.c. sinking-
fund grant in respect of new State debts.
Of course the thing will have to stand the
racket of a constitutional referendum. A
noisy band of State Frightens tried to dish
the agreement in the Westralian Leg. Coun-
cil and derive a gloomy satisfaction from
the thought that they caused some embarrass-
ment to Premier Collier and Page. Intro-
duced early in June with the idea that it
would be passed before the end of the finan-
cial twelvemonth, the bill didn’t get through
till the second week in July.
South Australia has lodged its applica-
on for the same sort of Federal subsidy as
Westralia and Tasmania receive, it being a
necessitous State within the meaning of the
Act. The unnecessary Royal Commission has
been appointed. By the 1926 figures Tas-
mania taxed its people on the highest scale
(365. per head above the average), and it
got a subsidy because it had done its best
and failed. South Australia came next and
taxed its people 18s. 2d. per head above the
average, which figure has since been con-
siderably increased. It is still in difficulties,
but it hasn’t got any subsidy so far because
it didn’t clamor hard enough.
As a pyrotechnic display McPherson’;:
attack on the Hogan Government on the
Vic. Opposition-
leader McPherson.
Address-in-Reply was
disappointing; the
crackers were strung
together anyhow. But
the Nationalist leader
made one neat point.
He gave an illustra-
tion of how piece-work
and bonuses had in-
creased output in his
own factory. Attor-
ney-General Slater
asked if his friend
would complete the
story by telling the
House how long the
beneficiaries had been
dead. McPherson re-
plied that the system
had been in operation
for 20 years, and he
"ould be glad to in-
troduce Slater to the
workers in question,
who would be glad
to assure him that
they were still not
only alive but hearty.
Tunnecliffe’s new Unemployment Insurance
Bill (Vic.) is almost a copy of the one
he explained just before Christmas, 1927.
It proposes a levy of an amount (3d. a
week each is suggested) from tlie employee,
the employer and the State, the money to
be spent on works. Tunnecliffe does not
claim that the machinery is the last word,
and the Ministry, after the second reading
has been agreed to, will ask the Assembly
to refer the bill to a select committee. The
Uppali Chambah will not accept it, anyhow.
A Queensland Royal Commission has re-
commended that certain cities and towns
should be municipally dismantled and
absorbed into adjacent shires. They are
nothing much in the present, and the future
isn’t sufficiently promising to make it worth
while keeping the civic pomp alive. The
list includes Bowen and Gladstone, two
hamlets which should be cities by reason of
the harbors attached. The same remark
could be made of many places in Aus-
tralia, where the best harbor is apt to have
tne worst luck.
There has been gossip for months in Vic.
official and political circles about the number
of prisoners released by the Hogan Govern-
ment before their sentences had expired;
and Dr. Argyle has now asked tor a return.
This kind of benevolence did serious harm
to a Westralian Labor Government when tin*
facts came out, and Hogan ought to have
remembered it—he was in Westralia about
that time.
Westralian Premier Collier, who is his
own Finance Minister, has had to announce
a deficit of £26,000 instead of the anticipated
surplus of £34,000. He blames the sea-
cooks’ strike, and no doubt it deprived him
of a lot of revenue—the harshest effects
of these maritime disturbances are always
felt in Jarrahland and the Speck. The Prime
Minister has softened the b’ow by testifying
that he has returned from the West con-
vinced that there is no better country on
earth for a young man who wants to got on.
During last year Canada reduced its debt
by £1,100,000', and the U.S. wiped outt
£180,000,000 of liabilities, by the simple pro-
cess of producing more or doing with less.
Also, Maoriland contrived to have £12,100,000
surplus of exports, which is something to
pay its foreign bills with. Why is Australia
the one sojourner in the ditch? Why should
it have been £46,000,000 less able to pay
for its own necessaries and luxuries in 1924
than in 1906? Why shouldn’t it get back
the commercial punch it had in the years
between 1900 and 1911?
Jimmy Stopford, Home Secretary in
Queensland’s McCormack Government,
thought to enter Federal politics by securing
the Labor nomination for Kennedy, but he
Jimmy Stopford.
reckoned without the
strong A.W.U. vote.
That went to W. J.
Riordan, State secre-
tary of the big union,
and though Stopford
began with a good lead
in Charters Towers, he
was easily beaten when
the out-back returns
came in. The late
Charlie McDonald held
Kennedy for Labor
from 1901 to 1925, and
would probably have
won it again if he
hadn’t died just before
polling-day-—there was
a Labor majority of
2000 in the electorate
voting for the Senate.
All the same, Gros-
venor Francis, the acci-
dental member, has
nursed the constituency to some purpose, and
may not be easy to shift.
The police force of N.S.W. was strength-
ened a while ago, but the reduction of the
working or arresting hours counterbalanced
the increase, so something more is to be
done. In most civilised countries a good
deal has been done by adding to Robert’s
mobility. Thanks to motor vehicles he
arrives on the scene of the crime with won-
derful velocity as compared with other days,
provided someone has the chance and
the inclination to ring him up. The risk
that Robert will be loafing past the scene of
the crime at the right moment, and will
arrive on top of Bill Sikes in one breathless
second by his own volition, is. over 100
times greater in England than in N.S.W.,
which makes a difference to Bill and to
other people.
The closing of Perry’s engineering works
at Gawler (S.A.) is a shock to one of the
little towns; and Australia’s little towns
aren’t built to stand shocks. From one
cause and another Australia has made
a poor struggle of late against imported
hardware of all sorts. The spending of
151,237,944 last year on other people’s
“metals, metal manufactures and machinery’’
accounts for a lot of unemployment.
Estimates are made that the Common-
wealth’s wheat crop will be 200,000.000
bushels, worth £45,000,000. Two hundred
million bushels will be 130 millions short of
the crop in France, but still it is an improve-
ment on this country’s previous best, which
was 179 million bushels in 1916. It has
been down as low as 46 million bushels
since then. Against the improvement in the
wheat crop as compared with 1916 the State
interest bill has risen from 13 million pounds
in that year to 33 millions in 1927, and it
never drops in bad years as the crops do.
The Bruce-Page Government’s latest appli-
cation for £7,000,000 raised a howl of undis-
guised astonishment in London, which re-
marked that Bruce-Page had been there for
£29,000,000 inside 12 months, apart, of
course, from large dealings in New York.
Unless something exceedingly strenuous is
done to reduce importing to sane dimensions
the vaunted new sinking fund may leave
things worse than it found them.
Malcolm Mclntosh, S. Aus. Minister of
Works and Education, was one of those who
journeyed to Wentworth (N.S.W.) for the
formal opening of the Abbotsford bridge over
The Mclntosh.
the Murray. He must
have enjoyed his few
days’ respite from the
cares of office and fac-
tional controversy.
Leader of the small
Country party for sev-
eral years, Mclntosh
fell out with the Lib-
erals in Barwell’s
time and received
Labor support for the
Albert division at the
1924 general election.
Last year positions
were reversed: the
Libs, withdrew their
men from Albert and
helped Mclntosh and
another Cocky to dish
the Labor candidates
for that three-member
constituency. A few
months later Works
and Education resigned
from the Cocky organisation, alleging that bad
faith on its part had wrecked Lib.-C.P. nego-
tiations for “closer union.” Now a Cocky
convention in Albert has demanded his resig-
nation as member for the district, adding, by
way of improving the shining hour, that it
will wipe the floor with him at the next
election.
The Secretary of the Federal Treasury
lately supplied the press with a statement
which began with the heading “£31,500,000
Debt Redeemed,” and went on to explain how
the National Debt Sinking Fund had been
working overtime since 1922, with that re-
sult. Under the new agreement it intends
to toil even harder. Still, Australia’s foreign
debt (Commonwealth and State) was about
£102,000,000 larger at June, 1927, than in
1922, and its total debt was £159,000,000
larger. So evidently the nation as a whole
paid off 31 millions with one hand and bor-
rowed 190 millions with the other.
The quarrel about the imported v. Aus-
tralian. article is on again in Melbourne.
Premier Hogan declared that when every-
thing Avas added up a pair of
made turbine generators would have cost
£59,800 against the English price rtf £51,600.
The problem remains if it pays better to
have £89.800 in the country or not to have
£51,600 because it has gone out of the
country. South Aus. Premier Butler’s im-
portation of coal is an attempt to bring down
the price of a commodity which has been
forced up to an abnormal figure, and is a
temporary expedient to meet, a temporary
evil, but a large difference in the price of
turbines has come to stay.
Commonwealth legislation “to control
assurance companies and provide safeguards
against the operations of bogus companies”
is promised, and considering that the power
to legislate against bogus companies has been
in the Federal constitution since the be-
ginning there has been no undue haste. Even
now the measure is to be postponed for a
while so that “reputable companies” may
be asked to advise on the subject, after which
the bill may have to be re-drafted. Mean-
while 35 assurance concerns (figures for
1926) and those which haA ? e been added
since pursue the wily premium, and 17 of
them include among their “assets” a total
of £1,226,095 which has been spent on the
search for business, largely in pitching tales
at the doors of the credulous poor. It is
hoped that Attorney-General Latham won’t
linger too long.
N. S. Wales Nationalist dovecotes lmve
been fluttered considerably by the appoint-
ment of H. W. Horsfield. of the Sydney
Town Hall staff, as secretary of the State
organisation in succession to Archdale Park-
hill, M.H.R. A. Kemp was thought by many
to have deserved promotion, for he conducted
the last Federal campaign successfully in
Parkhill’s absence abroad, and was named
acting-sec. when his chief rvent to Canberra.
Apparently he lacked the magic pull.
The compulsory registration of finger-
prints has been suggested, and the idea is
deserving of support. When the infant citi-
zen is compulsorily registered his finger-
print should be taken,, and again, to prevent
mistakes, when he compulsorily goes to
school, and a third time, to make quite sure,
when he compulsorily puts down his name
as a voter. If lie compulsorily goes to gaol
it should be taken again and put in a sepa-
rate collection, and it ought always to be put
on his passport. There is no positive need
to put it on his tombstone. As a means of
identifying criminals old and new, dead
bodies, fraudulent voters and people with
lost memories the general use of the finger-
print would be invaluable. It might even
show who hid the mysterious money in the
hole under the floor.
Treasurer Earle Page tries hard to explain
that Australia’s chronic excess of exports,
which leads to so much external borrowing,
is np bad symptom after all. As he put it:
Financial experts agree that between 1900 and
1914 Germany had an adverse trade balance in each
year. It was during this period that Germany' made
huge strides towards a high place among the trading
nations of the world. -
In 1908 Germany’s imports were,* it is true,
nearly £80,000,000 more than its exports,
or £1 6s. Bd. per inhabitant. But Germany,
like Britain, had a vast revenue from “in-
visible exports,” inasmuch as its traders were
at work in every foreign city and its ships
were earning money on every sea. In that
year nearly 4,000,000 tons of German ship-
ping entered U.S. ports, and about 7,000,000
tons entered British ports. What Australian
ships earn abroad isn’t worth mentioning,
but what Australia pays for the use of other
people’s ships is something serious.
The Gardens and' Ryans come back from
their flying visits to Russia attesting that it
is the happiest, or about the happiest, coun-
try in the world, but, though they say that,
they are fairly unanimous about coming back.
The matter which discourages them is the
want of opportunity. The topmost caste
in the Soviet land are the Communists, and
to some extent their sons, the apprentice
Communists. Their number is estimated as
between 500,000 and 600,0,00, and they are a
potent, well-salaried and very exclusive
crowd. But the books of this trades union
are closed, and there is nothing else worth
aspiring to. Hence the longing to build a
new Russia, in Australia or somewhere, with
the, Gardens and Ryans in the front seats;
hence also the constant effort to persuade
people in general that it would be a nice
thing for them.
Treasurer-medico Earle Page doesn't give
the impression of a man who believes in
foreign loans, but he seems a hag-ridden
victim of circumstances. Hence remarks
like this :—.
Money must be got from somewhere to exploit
the undeveloped resources of the Commonwealth.
There is not enough capital in Australia to under-
take the job.
And unless the Bruce-Page Government, or
some other one, thinks out a way to increase
production and exports by some 50 millions
per annum, which there is not a visible hope
of doing, or to reduce imports by that
amount, which could be done, there is no
prospect of there ever being enough.
The Prime Minister had the inevitable
George Pearce for companion during part of
his Westralian tour. Pearce entered the
Senate in 1901 and has been there ever since
—the only member of the original band left.
Perpetual Senator
Pearce.
He has been every-
thing by turns and
nothing fo-o long;
Uabor, Nationalist and
Nat.-Cocky; Freetrad-
er, Protectionist and
Revenue - Tariffist:
Unifieationist a n 1
State-Righrer. I-Ie has
never uttered a sen-
tence that anyone re-
members, but in addi-
tion to bis obliging
readiness to change
his views when
changes are expedient,
lie works hard in his
fashion, does as he is
told by Prime Minis-
ters and Under-Secre-
taries, and has acquir-
ed much skill in the
pilotage of bills. So
he has been a Minis-
ter for years, off and on, and is a
knight, a Privy Councillor and an officer
of the Legion of Honor.
China’s “Nationalist” Government, having
got on its feet and also acquired swelled head,
has intimated its desire that in future all
foreigners in China shall be amenable to
Chinese law, in which case “they will be
treated equally with Chinamen.” One of
the reasons why the offer is likely to be re-
fused is described in a cyclopaedia:—
Cangue—an instrument by which petty offenders
in China are punished. It consists of a large wooden
collar fitting closely round the neck, varying in size
and weight, and not to be removed by day or night
during the whole period of punishment, which may
vary in length from a fortnight to three months.
Its form prevents the victim stretching himself at
full length. He is left to be starved or fed by the
public at their pleasure.
The petty offender can’t reach his mouth
with his hands, which makes his victualling
precarious.
REASSURANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Federal Treasurer (Dr. Page), in a state-
ment issued at Canberra, said ‘Financial experts
agree that between 1900 and 1914 Germany had an
adverse trade balance in each year. It was during
this period that Germany made huge strides towards
u high place among the trade nations of the world.’ ”
With rare joy my soul is thrilling;
Never more I’ll count the price.
But I’ll take, with spirit willing,
Doctor Page’s good advice.
’Tis relief to find a blessing
In what lately seemed a curse;
I can live carefree, caressing
My trade balances adverse.
Once I feared to face my bank-book,
And with sickly qualms I eyed
All my ledgers—each a blank-book
As concerns the credit side;
But it seems that my condition
Is a path to wealth ; I’ll yet
Reach an affluent position
If I fall enough in debt.
If my creditors should worry,
I will point out, frank and fair,
There’s no reason I should hurry
Any of their debts to square.
Though they threaten, rave and rampage
I will tell them to be calm—
Surely they won’t dare to damn Page
Who lias brought my soul this balm!
N.S.W.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“P.X.”: The Grosvenor Hotel is among
the two or three hundred premises that the
Sydney Harbor Bridge has laid its talons
on, and the materials in it, auctioned the
other day, fetched no more than £356.
Things have gone pretty hard with the
Grosvenor for a quarter of a century or
more. Built on Church Hill when that
was the toniest residential quarter in Aus-
tralia, it presently found itself surrounded
by dingy old-time dwellings fallen into decay.
But, being itself still comfortable, its poor
surroundings-might have been forgotten if it
hadn’t had the bad luck to be the very
centre of this country’s first outbreak of
bubonic plague. The Grosvenor never re-
covered that shock, even though many a
well-known man with no stomach for the
frills of the modern pub continued to pat-
ronise it. Thus Billy Hughes made it
his Sydney headquarters when he came this
COULDN’T FIT IN ANYWHERE.
“He said he wanted me for his wife.”
“Don’t be silly, child—what would she do with you? And, besides,
he hasn’t got one.”
way ddring the war; and many an im-
portant conference was held within it.
* * * *
“Pip Tok” : Sectarian bias is conspicuous
by its absence in the A.M.F. Our district
headquarters had to nominate a chaplain
for “Protestant denominations other than
Anglican.” One minister was sounded as
to his willingness to officiate and he readily
consented. The official forms were made
out and were awaiting the commandant’s
signature before being sent to Melbourne for
final approval, when a smart young clerk
discovered that the clergyman concerned was
not eligible for the appointment. He hap-
pened to be the Jewish Rabbi.
* * * *
“Mettle”: Coining two-shilling pieces
seems to be a favorite occupation for crooks
who are blessed —or cursed —with intelli-
gence. The latest faked florin to come under
my notice is the best I ever saw—perfectly
milled and as clear-cut as a cameo. The
date is 1927, and the color is bright. The
only defect is that it flops on the counter
with no more ring than a wad of cardboard.
A previous crop of counterfeits had a dull
leaden hue and could be sliced easily with
a sharp penknife, but they struck a cheery
chime when bounced on a hard surface. The
last time I went to the bank with a pound’s
worth of two-bobs they returned me three of
the newest vintage. In future I’m going to
take a discount of 4 1-6 per cent, on any
florins that come into my possession by buy-
ing a newspaper at the nearest stand. The
counters in those places, a foot high with
papef, don’t tell tales.
* * * *
“Aniraf”: Here’s the sequel to “C.Q.’s”
par. (B. 27/6/’2B) about that aerial attack
on Central Australia. The two aeroplanes
duly arrived in Farina from Broken Mill,
the pilot being accompanied by a radio-man,
a mechanic and four tourists. But the two
cars had a run of bad luck; one broke down
in Farina with wheel trouble and the other
at Oodnadatta with a fractured piston. That
meant that the ’planes would arrive at Alice
Springs days ahead of the cars. All the same,
we Farina people are thrilled at the prospect
of the establishment of a permanent camp
for tourists in Centralia. And, thanks to
Captain Larkin of the Wattle Bird, we have
enjoyed the experience, unique to us, of
reading N.S.W. newspapers on the day of
publication.
* * *
“Amity:” “Jesmond” (B. 4/7/’2B) is
absolutely right in his condemnation of the
writing test-for drunkenness. It is a method
far more likely to affect adversely the inno-
cent than to be of any value in determining
insobriety. In moments of intense excite-
ment the hands become curiously unsteady.
Witness the case of a well-known Sydney
barrister who, thinking lie was suffering
from an incurable complaint, consulted a
visiting specialist. When assured his fears
were groundless he sat for an hour before
he could sufficiently control a pen to write
his signature on a cheque. And he hadn t
fear of contact with the police to unnerve
him, either.
“Yenton” : One Sunday morning in France
two urchins broke up the solemnity of our
church parade beyond hope of recovery. The
Colonel had just arrived to take over the
reins, and was talking to the officers. Out
of a side lane near by came two little
Frogs, one about eight and the other younger,
each at work on a cigar nearly as long as
his arm. They strolled along to a position
just behind the group arm in arm and there
halted, puffing away loftily while they con-
templated the regiment. There was a ripple
of laughter among the men that swelled to a
gale, and the O.C. looked up angrily.
N.c.o.’s quelled the noise for a moment, only
to hear it break out again. Then the officers
saw the boys and dignity went to the winds.
“Mundowie”: Anybody with a liking for
appropriating deserted gaols might have a
look at Berrima’s exhibit—the most grimly-
historical house of correction in Australia,
now long vacated. Built of massive stone,
scored with the names and mottoes of many
prisoners, it mdst
be nearly 100 years
old; but only
ghosts will cele-
brate its centen-
ary. “Terrible Ber-
rima gaol,” it was
called. Rolf Bol-
drewood immortal-
ised it in “Robbery
Under Arms,” and
one of its narrow
dungeons is known
as Starlight’s cell.
Berrima is only a
small N.S.W. town,
but if North Syd-
ney’s quaint Meath-
eringham, or some-
one like him, took
possession of its
famous gaol, and
was not disturbed
by constituted
author i t y, as
Meathe ringbam
was at Manly, he
could easily earn
the rates and taxes
by showing tourists
over it.
* *
“S h e e 1 a h”:
Touching the
ability of the blind
(B. 13/6/’2B), I
always marvelled
at a now-deceased
resident of Broad-
marsh, near Hobart,
who assisted his
relatives in run-
ning the local store
and post office and
was treasurer of
both concerns.
Though many thou-
sands of pounds
passed through his
hands in notes and
coin, he was never
known to make a
mistake. He man-
ipulated the ’phone
switchboard and delivered telegrams unaided
within a three-mile radius. He was blind
from birth.
* * * *
“C.Q”: A new reason for preserving Aus-
tralia’s wild fauna has been advanced by
James Barrett, Vic.’s staunchest defender
of the rights of dumb animals. He points
out that the extinction of the koala and
the platypus may eliminate valuable aids to
science in the prevention of disease. In the
search for the cause of yellow jack human
volunteers were first employed, and a good
many of them died. Guinea-pigs, dogs, rats
and other animals were then tried, but they
refused to “take.” Finally tne remarkable
fact was stumbled on that the Indian Crown
monkey would contract the disease and that
a serum drawn from the beast would check
the complaint in a man. There is just a
chance, therefore, that Billy Bluegum still
has a mission. The idea isn’t likely to
please the anti-vivisectionists, however.
“Arthur R.” : All the curses of Confucius
were heaped on the telephone by a Melbourne
banana merchant recently. “Is that Wing
On?” would come the query, and the affirma-
tive grunt would bring, “Well, wing off!”
The Chinese suffered this for over a week;
then a frantic appeal to the telephone people
caused a watch to be set. Four office-boys
are now looking for jobs.
* * * *
“X.D.”: The regular car thief in Mel-
bourne works on an approved business sys-
tem. There are no points in indiscriminate
thieving, as some spare
parts are a drug on the
market, while others are
readily saleable. So he
books orders from the re-
ceivers—and then goes
out and fulfils them!
Hi *
“Nakhoda”: I have
never been able to under-
stand why the wall fire-
place is so universally
favored in Australia. In
the southern portions of
the Continent the winter
is quite cold enough to
warrant houses and offices
being properly warmed, a
job for which the prevail-
ing type of fireplace is
pathetically unfi t. In .
thoroughly cold countries
the central stove, with a
vent going through the
roof, is the invariable
vogue. There is maxi-'
mum draught and maxi-
mum radiation, with a
minimum of fuel. Fire-
wood is getting scarcer in
the populous parts of the
MOST LIKELY.
M RS. THINDOWN: “I’ve a feeling that I’ve left something at home, John. I wonder
what it can be?”
JOHN: “I can’t think of anything unless it’s your clothes.”
country, and the getters have to go even
farther afield. A good deal of Melbourne’s
warmth is carted 200 miles —from the Mallee.
* * * *
“Sunny Hill” : The N.S.W. Railway Com-
missioners have just finished their annual
inspection of the lines, a farce which is
supposed to ensure that everything inside the
railway fence is in good order at least once
a year. The amount of expensive spit and
polish that goes on for weeks before the
inspection special whizzes through is amaz-
ing. Refreshment-room waitresses polish up
their barracks, stai'ch their sheets and often
sleep on the floor till the inspection is over;
and woe betide the unhappy stationmaster
whose time-tables are not pasted up quite
straight. The story of the year concerns a
loco, inspector who had a couple of dirty
engines run into his depot at the last
moment. There was not time to clean them
properly, so lie ran them on to an outside
track and gave them a coat of shiny biturine
and oil on the side the Commissioners would
pass. His heart stood still while the engines
were the subject of a gratified comment from
the inspection party. It did not occur to
anybody to inspect them from the rear, and
he got his bonus.
;j{ JjJ H* V
“Sol M.” : The bogus land salesman now
has columns to himself in the Victorian
papers, and he certainly deserves them. He
shows no great variation in his methods, but
then his class seldom does. When it has de-
vised a homely fraud like the confidence
trick it sticks to that sample till it is
threadbare, and it takes a long time to get
very bare. As a rule the salesliar buys
Smith’s bit of land for much more than
Smith expected, and makes out the cheque
on the spot. The document, however, has
to be countersigned by the managing director
of the purchasing co., after which it will be
paid into Smith’s account. Then the latter
is beguiled into putting his profits into the
purchase of suburban blocks, and if the seller
gets away with his open cheque the trans-
action generally ends there. Smith still has
the property he sold. The price of it never
goes into his bank account, because, so he is
told, the managing director refuses to count-
ersign the cheque. But, of course, the
cheque he gave for the blocks lie bought has
been cashed. I suggest a law empowering
the police to shoot travelling land agents on
sight. . .
* * =:• *
“Caxton’s Ghost”: There is a taxi-driver
in Blenheim (M.L.) who believes that three
Maoris are a match for one white man any
day. Three natives got into his chariot and
ordered him to drive them from the town to
the pah. Arrived at their destination, one
of the passengers said, “You wait here; I
go see te wahinc —she got te money.” When
lie did not return, a second buzzed off, saying,
“I go shake him up.” The third was snoring
on the back seat. No. 2 failed to come back,
and, with a glance at the sleeping warrior,
the driVer alighted and entered the
dwelling. It was empty. Hd strode swiftly
back to the car to wreak vengeance on No.
3. and found that he, too. had vanished.
* * *
“Jim Go” : The Italians'in our flourishing
district have a sort of Starr-Bowkett co-
operative system. A number of them farm
together, getting only, their keep and pool-
ing the surplus. When a sufficient sum has
accumulated, they draw lots; the winner
takes all and buys himself a farm or busi-
ness. Another compatriot comes in and they
set to again; and so the thing goes on, each
man in turn getting a start out of it. Tim
newcomers must wait for their chance till all
the original members have been financed.
;|s :jc ❖ ❖
“John Pip”: Statements by the Customs
Department about opium hauls at Towns-
ville, Sydney, Melbourne or some North Wes-
tralian outport are fairly common, but we
never hear of a cocaine seizure in Australia.
Still, cases of lives ruined by “snow” are
repeatedly coming before the courts. Go to
police headquarters in any State and you
will hear painful stories of how the drug has
gripped many unfortunate people. While
specialising in the astute tricks .of the
Chinese and his precious poppy juice, the
authorities seem to be apathetic about the
European and his cocaine trade. Very few
Customs officers on the Melbourne and Syd-
ney wharves have any idea of the appearance
of cocaine or morphine or the conditions
under which they max be imported—or
smuggled. Recently an experienced tariff
officer told me that a passenger with packets
of cocaine would have no difficulty in getting
the goods through if he labelled them baking-
powder.
* * * *
“Shed Hand”: The first locomotives im-
ported by the Westralian Government were
equipped with bells. These were promptly
dismantled and used for other purposes or
sold to schools. The last, which had clanged
out the changing shifts in the Perth goods
sheds for 30 years or so, fell out of use with
the advent of timekeepers, and one employee
suggested that the department sell it. The
Economy Board approved, and awarded
the suggester a pound. That bell now calls
up a parson’s flock in the country.
* * * *
“Der Jongg” : It is not surprising to hear
that “Judge” Swindell, who introduced the
tin hare to Australia and then took it to
South Africa, has disappeared from that
locality, where he struck trouble. He was
last seen in Johannesburg, and it is surmised
that he unobtrusively crossed the border into
Portuguese territory at Koomati Poort.
Many a disappointed pursuer of easy money
in South Africa has slipped into the train
at Jo’burg and sighed with relief next morn-
ing to see the Portuguese ensign flying over
him. Up to a few years ago there was no
question of extradition, though times may
have changed since then. In any case, Portu-
guese officialdom charged so prodigally for its
forbearance that the wanted one was usually
glad to get out of Portuguese East as soon as
he could fly, even if he had to leave a big
handful of feathers behind him.
* #
“The Listening-Insect”: 3LO. Melbourne,
still apparently harbors the belief that there
is some connection between the emanations
of the thinking brain and the electro-mag-
netic waves which work a wireless receiver.
Three citizens, a parson, a feminine J.P. and
a doctor, sat down for the second time the
other night and thought hard about an ash-
tray, a ball of twine, a pair of scissors, a
paper-clip, an electric torch and a pair of
headphones. Only one person of the tens
of thousands of listeners who sent in their
list put even one of the objects in its
right place. This was worse than the last
time. The effect of the prohibition cam-
paign in N. S. Wales was no doubt re-
flected in the answers received from that
State. A very large numbered visualised
foaming pots of ale.
* ❖ * *
“Gouger”: Not always are the white
man’s wonders viewed with boredom by
primitive man (B. 4/7/’2B). When Wack-
ett’s seaplane swooped down the waterlane
between Moa and Badu, the people of three
big villages went hysterical with astonish-
ment and terror. Some mothers even forgot
to snatch their babes before running scream-
ing into the bush. A canoe in the waterway
was emptied in a trice —its crew leaped
overboard. Far south towards the Home
group Wacbett playfully dropped near a
trochus lugger, the crew of which were
supposed .to be. civilised. Every man dived
into the sea. '
PREPOSTEROUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“She admitted that she and the respondent had
been in the habit of kissing, but the kisses were
never passionate.” —Divorce Court evidence.
My wife is —well, slightly _ annoyed ;
To reason she will not incline;
No peace for a week I've enjoyed—
I donbt it will ever be mine !
That the housemaid I kissed, I'll admit,
But there really was nothing amiss;
If my wife calm had been, she would surely
have seen
That it wasn’t a passionate kiss.
I’ll admit she’d have cause to object
Had it been a long, ling’ring affair
Such as makes the world reel and project
Two twining souls into the air;
That breaks like a rocket in stars
Round the head as the heart bursts with
bliss,
While wild songs fill the breast with their
throb —I protest
That it wasn’t a passionate kiss !
It was such an informal affair —
Why, no saint could call it a sin ;
Just a casual hug here and there,
With a peck on the forehead or chin.
No need for a mother-in-law
To back up my wife over this. . . .
But I’ll feel deep remorse, if it costs a
divorce,
That it wasn't a passionate kiss.
N.S.W.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


“X.D.": The gentlemen who wave soft
hands under three golden balls in Mel-
bourne are sometimes reputable citizens
and sometimes they are not. It is
difficult for them to be angels at the best of
times, but at the present moment, with
Prendergast publicly quarrelling with Blarney
over the depleted police force, it is harder
than ever. Never before have there been
such torrents of stolen goods looking for re-
ceivers. Under the present law, which ipakes
it almost impossible to sheet home responsi-
bility to pawnbrokers, ole-clo’ shops are
the easiest avenues of disposal. The other
day a stolen dress-suit worth about eight
guineas was accepted by one of these inno-
cents for 15s. Other unsophisticated ex-
amples are the bland reception of pieces of
old family plate with the owner’s name care-
lessly erased and of a presentation clock, the
property of a well-known local knight, James
Barrett. Blarney’s department regularly sends
out lists of stolen goods to over 1000 shops
in Melbourne and environs alone, and. the
enterprise costs the Government £l5OO p.a.
But with the law in its present state the
illicit trade is likely to go merrily along.
* * * Me
“Up North”: For liveliness, Echuca
(B. 11/7/’2B) Avasn’t a patch on Burke-
town (N.Q.) in the days when all the male
citizens had to go armed because of the
blacks. Burketown’s pubs then carried on
without a license; in fact, it did without
a police force for years. Finally, fatal fights
became too frequent, and the Law was in-
stalled. There was no gaol, and obstreperous
prisoners were handcuffed to a long chain,
which in turn was spiked to a huge log.
One evening several bad boys were teth-
ered to the log. When the constable strolled
along next morning to see about their break-
fast they had picked up their log and walked.
He found them and the log in a bar, and had
to shout for all hands before they would
condescend to carry the gaol back to its
proper position.
* * * *
“S.M.”: The proposed new Anglican
prayer-book, which has twice gone down in
the deep waters of the House of Commons,
hasn’t finished making trouble. Some bishops
and clergy go so far as to favor disestablish-
ment, so that the Church may run its own
A MOST INCONVENIENT MIND.
“Jean often forgets what to remember on
the stage!”
“Yes, but off stage she never remembers what to forget, the cat!”
affairs and have any prayer-book it pleases,
and it is expected that/Lloyd George will
smell out a chance to repair the fortunes of
Liberalism and get disestablishment into the
party platform. If the Church is disestab-
lished and disendowed it is presumed that
the present generation of clerics will be
provided for in a way, but the rank and file
will find a blight on their chances of pro-
motion to be high-salaried bishops and the
like, and some who are strong for self-
sacrifice now may yet wonder, like the
partially burnt martyr, whether the fuss was
worth while. The next generation of vicars
and rectors will probably feel sure it wasn’t,
for the same reason as the preacher who
lately turned private detective because he
was' weary of collecting his salary, there
not being enough to be worth collecting.
A sect which sacrifices its official pay and
status does the same irreparable act as any
other suicide, but, unlike the other suicide,
it remains above ground to notice the irre-
parableness.
* * * *
“X.D.”: Is there any limit to the in-
cidence of the time-payment disease? A
Melbourne domestic servant has figured in
proceedings for the recovery of £lO she
paid as a deposit on a second-hand sedan
car, priced at £2OO. The ambitious lady
confessed to an income of £2 15s. per week.
* * * *
“Keg”: “Hamfat’s” remark (B. 4/7/’2B)
that officers can be got by the gross but
good non-coms are hard to find brings back
a memory. We had a gilded youth for sub.
in our troop, and his opinion of himself
was as big as his bank balance. The Tommy
sergeant-major had given a lecture at morn-
ing parade on the reasons for saluting. On
dismissal our sub. failed to return the
sarn-major’s salute. Re-assembling after
dinner the Tommy addressed us all in a
silky tone: “In tlie British Army one can
become an officer in a month. It takes
21 years to become a sergeant-major.
Parade, ’shun.”
* $ * *
“K.D.S.”: Mildura is chuckling over a
serial dealing with life in a fruit settlement.
One particular “howler” :
How was she to know that Joe was half-way up
the citrus-tree, intent on pruning? How was Joe
to know, way up in the citrus tree, that, etc.
Citrus-trees have spikes up to an inch and
a half long, and they aren’t pruffed.
sjt sjc -l*
“B-Gar”: During a night reconnaissance
in the Sinai, the nearest Turkish forces
being scores of miles away, the order ran,
“No smoking until after sunrise.” A dozen
troopers appeared in the orderly-room next
morning to answer the charge of disobeying
the command. They admitted a technical
offence, but one, speaking for his mates, ex-
plained the matter. “It was broad daylight,
Colonel,” he said. “The sun was up all
right, but the officer could not see it for the
sandhills.” Cases dismissed.
s|: tit * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: The habit of hiding
money under carpets and in holes in the
stairs is not peculiar to Sydney aldermen
and the like. A Melbourne man was stag-
gered the other day on finding that his wife
had given away his old boots to a beggar;
he had £l7-odd stowed in the toes. Another
man, in Sydney, got his upset when he found
that, the gas stove having gone wrong, his
wife had lighted up the old kitchen-range.
The flue was his safe-deposit, and the notes
he had placed there were a mass of charred
paper when he rushed to recover them.
* * * *
“Murua”: “P.M.’s” cobber (B. 4/7/’2B)
didn’t have the trouble to get to the war that
an acquaintance of mine had. When under
18 he heard the call in Melbourne and went
into camp with a faked consent, but his
parents got wind of it and had him dis-
charged as under age. His next attempt was
in Sydney, but his father grabbed him before
he went to camp. He then returned home
after making resolutions not to enlist in the
A.I.F. without dad’s approval. After a
few months, unable to settle down to home
life, the boy suggested a trip to see re-
latives in England, and to keep him away
from recruiting-offices for another year his
father agreed. Next came cables from over-
seas advising that the boy hadn’t put in an
appearance. After a couple of months’ wait
Had received by post a photo of his de-
linquent son, resplendent in the uniform of
a Scottish soldier, kilt and all, and bearing
the autograph, “A Jock frae Melbourne.”
* * * *
“Coot”: The Edina, wh : ch rammed and
. ~ . Hnvell in Hobson’s Rnv
sank tke tl ’ g iloveU / ? bsan s Ba y tae
other day, has a long criminal record. In
1898 she sank the steamer Manawatu off
Williamstown. The following year she dashed
into the Excelsior during a fog and sank her.
In 1917 she ran into a Melbourne Harbor
Trust motor-boat and sent her to the bottom.
On another occasion she collided with Queen’s
Bridge and seriously damaged that struc-
ture. Each time the old tub escaped serious
damage.
* * * *
“X.D.”: The danger of allowing firms to
print advts. with a colorable resemblance to
NO LONGER TAKEN FOR
GRANTED.
“Darned nice girl—how old
would you say she is?”
“Old enough for people to begin telling her how young she is looking.”
a banknote was exemplified in Melbourne
the other da,y. A man tendered what was
apparently a Joubled-up one-pound note to
a harassed conductor in a crowded tram
and got a ticket and 19s. Bd. in exchange.
When the trainman had leisure to look at
his bag he found the “note” was a publicity
stunt issued by a dance “palay.”
* * * *
“P.M.”: I know a Vic. dairy-farmer, a
rather eccentric customer, who has been
21 years building a weatherboard house
and hasn’t finished yet. When lie
came to the conclusion, in 1907, that
his house was getting fairly old, he
set about building a new and
thoroughly substantial domicile,
ilis first bright idea was not to use
nails for fear of splitting the tim-
ber, so every join is screwed or
bolted. In the time he has spent
driving screws alone he could have
built three houses. If anyone comes
along and offers criticism which he
doesn t take kindly, lie goes home
and deserts the job for months.
Once his wife inspected the build-
ing and asked him to alter the posi-
tion of the fireplaces, as they didn’t
suit her. That time he kept away
from the job for two years and a
half. He moved into the new House
a couple of years ago, but it’s not
near finished yet, and I don’t sup-
pose it ever will be.
❖ * 4*
“Clievroford”: No doubt plenty
of pedestrians dream that they are
the victims in a motor accident, but
there is a man in Melbourne who
was actually run over while asleep.
Morpheus wooed him while lie was
lying on a seaside hotel lawn watch-
ing a game of tennis, and the owner
of a parked car inadvertently
backed his vehicle clean over the recumbent
form.
* * * *
“Tarago” : “Shep’s” mention of our camou-
flaged raiding-party on the Somme (B.
4/7/’2B) reminds me that the white cloth
coverings over our uniforms were ladies’
nighties, purchased in Amiens for the pur-
pose. We also put in some time during the
afternoon chalking our tin lids. The objec-
tive of the raid was a troublesome machine-
gun, which was causing numerous casualties
in the front line. Fritz had a strong party
concealed in shell-holes around the gun. The
stunt developed into a bomb fight until we
had exhausted our ammunition ; then it was
every man for himself. Although the enemy
pelted us with everything he had, we got
back with one casualty.
“C.0.P1.”: In a Sydney auction-room the
auctioneer held up a dilapidated-looking
fiddle. “Ladies and gentlemen,” he said,
“what am I offered for this priceless old
French violin? Why,” he went on drama-
tically, “one can almost discern the blurred
finger-prints of remorseless time. To the merry
music of this magnificent old instrument the
brocaded dames of France have danced the
stately minuet in the gilded courts of Louis
XV. ' And” “Five bob,” interrupted an
old lady at the back of the room. “It’s yours,
lady,” said the auctioneer promptly.
* * * *
“Centurion”: That yarn about the Judge
and the ginger ale (B. 11/7/’2B) reminds
me of an experience at a N.S.W. Light
Horse depot early in the war. I was intro-
duced to the officers’ mess when the sun was
just about over the yardarm, and though I
had been out of the game for a long time I
was not surprised to note that those present
were drinking soft stuff, with an odd cup of
tea here and there, for I understood hard
drinks were barred in Australian military
camps. Asked if I’d have tea or limejuice
and soda, I plumped for tea, but my intro-
ducer repeated the question with so muen
emphasis on the limejuice and soda that I
switched on to that, just to oblige him. The
mess steward dodged behind a screen at one
end of the tent and came back with a long
bubbling tumbler filled with yellow fluid. It
was as stiff a whisky and soda as I ever
tackled. I noted that most of the others were
also limejuice-and-soda addicts, and there-
after was one myself.
* * * *
“E.V.S.” : While I was reading in a tram
a gust of wind blew my glasses off. I
saw them hit the road, bounce and turn over.
I got off the car and walked that strip of
road six times in a fruitless search for them.
Resigned to their loss, I went my way. They
were returned to me within an hour, having
been found on the floor of the tramcar.
I saw those specs, fall on the road, and the
entire Australian Bar could not have shaken
my testimony on that point. So much for
the value of evidence.
sis ■ sfc ❖ *
“Mullarula”: As our brigade, bound for
Solomon’s Bools and a much-needed rest,
wound its way along the road which climbs
the Judaean hills from Jericho, one of the
lads, who had been reading up the Old Testa-
ment, pointed down into the dark gorge of
the Wady Kelt, and remarked to his
right-hand neighbor, a cocky’s son from the
Liverpool Plains. “That’s where Elijah used
to hang out.” “What did he want to live
there for?” asked the other. The student
explained that the prophet was hiding from
the wrath of some king or other. “What
did he live on?” asked the son of the soil.
“On food that was brought to him by ravens,”
was the reply. “Oh. did he i” said the man
from the plains, casting a sceptical eye round
a landscape of bare earth and rock. “And
what the blazes did the ravens live on?”
* * * *
“Uramao” : Maoriland patriots did not go
wild when the fittings of the ducal train were
offered for sale recently. The furniture on
which the Yorks stretched their tired limbs
elicited only one bid, from a matter-of-fact
publican, when put up at Tokaanu. Official-
dom stood aghast at the audacity of Mr.
Ticklebrain, and despatched the stuff to
Auckland, but it did not fetch enough to
pay the transport charges from Tokaanu.
The furniture used in the South Island
train was offered to railway officers, who
were invited to tender for it.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Melbourne motor thieves
are growing ever hardier. Two of them the
other evening lifted a car with the 11-year-
old son of the proprietor asleep inside it.
When the lad woke up they asked him his
address and considerately drove him to the
most convenient railway station. Then they
departed with their booty.
* * * *
“Au Fait”: How did the tricolor bull's-
eye become the official emblem of R.A.'F.
’planes? Here’s one explanation. At the
beginning of the war air-fighting w T as a
very scrappy business wherein a hit was
sheer luck. Neither side had any experi-
ence, and firing at a moving target from
a moving target very seldom resulted seri-
ously. The British airmen got the idea
that their immunity was due to bad Ger-
man marksmanship. To give the enemy a
sporting chance, one famous British ace
painted a red-white-and-blue target on his
wings. The legend runs on to the effect that
the insult had such a paralysing effect on
Fritz’s morale that the emblem was officially
adopted.
IF I HAD DIED LAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sky, a glowing bowl
Reversed, pours early light
Downward, like golden wine,
On rock and peak and pine.
Itight glad am I, right glad,
I did not die last night!
The gleam upon yon wave,
The glow on yonder height,
The dawn on pine and paim.
The broad sea’s morning psalm—
All this I would have missed
If I had died last night.
With such fine feasts in store,
This splendor broad and bright,
This glory that makes gay
The natal hour of day,
IIow grieved I would have been
If I had died last night!
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


IT’S THE TOBACCO THAT COUNTS
f
Cut
fs
rnr
c*/
UIMEDIUM STRENGTH 1^
REGISTERED.
Havy Cut
Cigarettes
W.D.&H.O.WiIIs,
(AuslTalia)LM Sydney.
V/
“CAPSTAN” Navy Cut Cigarettes -12 for 6°


USHER'S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Addrea?
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydn
DISTINCTIVE DIAMOND RINGS
Octagon Cluster Ring,
£3O.
Diamond Single-stone Ring
£l6/10/-
Emerald and Diamond Rin
£22/10/-
Gems of autHentic value and perfect color, in new artistic settings,
are offered at consistently moderate price.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
PLAIN FIGURES. 23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
CASH ONLY.
df
“Ihe best place to
I qo for your next
holiday is the^
RAN EL AG Si
■where a hundred delights await you.
Golf, Tennis, Dancing. Every pas-
time catered for.
Management—G. M. Lievain Robertson
Inclusive Tariff from £l/1/. per
day, and from £6/6/- per week-.
Sydney Booking Officers! Pitt Street.
’Piione: 86191.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Ages of Australian Anglican prelates:—
Primate Dr. Wright (Syd.) 66, his coadjutor
D’Arcy Irvine 66, Harrington Lees (Melb.j 58, Riley
(Perth) 74, and Sharp (Bris.) 62, Thomas (Adel.)
58, Thomas (Willochra) 46, Crick (Ballarat) 45,
Crotty ((Bathurst) 41, Baker (Bendigo) 46, Wilson
(Bunbury) 67, Newton (Brit. N. Guinea) 62, Davies
(Carpentaria) 44, Cranswick (Gippsland) 45, Rad-
ford (Goulburn) 59, Ashton (Grafton) 61, Elsey
(Kalgoorlie) 48, Long (Newcastle) 52, Feetham (N.Q.)
55, Halse (Riverina) 47, James (St. Arnaud) 51,
Hay (Tas.) 61, and Hart (Wangaratta) 61.
“ J.11.M.A.”: Died last month at Mount
Tambourine (Q.), an old lady—she was 87—
who was a link with the days of Governor
Macquarie. Mrs. Mary Emily Davidson was
the youngest of a family of nine sons and
four daughters, the children of George Hull,
a Peninsular veteran who became Commis-
sary-General of Van Diemen’s Land in 1810.
Before that he had been in the Commis-
sariat Department:
at Sydney, where
he was a personal
friend of the Mac-
quaries. Mr. Com-
missary - General
Hull was given a
grant of 3000 acres
on the footslopes of
Mount Wellington,
outside Hobart,
and lived to the age
of 94, dying as re-
cently as ISB2.
Mrs. Davidson
went to Queensland
as a young bride
in 1861.
W.T. McCOY,
B.A., Director of
Education, South
Australia, who
has been helping
his Minister lay
the foundation
stone of a high
school at
Renmark.
Bowser is the only survivor of the 14
former Speakers of the Vic. Assembly.
N. S. Wales, on the other hand, has a whole
pack of them, including Dick Meagher,
Dooley, Simon Hickey, Cohen and Caun.
George Meudell, of Melbourne, who claims
to be the oldest living contributor to The
Bulletin (he had a par. in the second
number), has received a cable from London
saying that his book on travel and finance
will be published in September.
Father Bucas, of Rockhampton, is the
doyen of Queensland’s R.C. clergy. At 90
he is still hale and hearty, and his reminis-
cences embrace several countries. He fought
in the Maori War and retains vivid memo-
ries of the heroism of the warriors of Maori-
land. He hails from Brittany, France,
where he got his spiritual commission 60
years ago.
The Parkhill influence scored in the
appointment of his successor to the job of
secretary of the N.S.W. Nationalist Associa-
tion : it went to 11. W. Horsfield, who has
been on Sydney Town Hall clerical staff for
a score of years. Horsfield has been a life-
long friend of Parkhill, and was his nominee;
although there were two other strongly-
fancied candidates, they had no hope.
The retirement of Dr. Elkington, director
of the Tropical Medicine division of the
Federal Health Department, will be a loss
to the community as well as to the service
of which he was a distinguished member.
But as lie is only 57 it should give him
ample leisure for research and for contribut-
ing st 11 further to the literature of science.
The Bulletin has few contributors that it
welcomes more eagerly.
“Bildad”; “E. Con” (B. 4/7/’2S) assures
u.s Thomas Walsh was always a nice sort
of man. and sent the British seamen back to
their ships instead of encouraging them to
keep on str'ke and hang about Australian
ports, and that he was never Red at all. But
Walsh has since stated with emphasis that
lie was really Red and revolutionary—in
other words, lie is a converted pirate and
not a redeemed curate. Considering some
stormy happenings in Melbourne and elscr
where there Seems no reason to doubt his
word.
Years ago a small boy in Bundaberg named
Bert Hinkler wrote to Tom McLeod of Bris
bane, Tom being the first flying expert in
Queensland. For some time they were in
touch ; indeed, Tom’s advice and encourage-
ment helped to make Hinkler a flying man.
Then came a blank —they had no communi-
cation for 10 years. Hinkler went to a camp
in England after the war and found his
old mentor, now a major, in command. Again
they were out of touch for 10 years. Then
Bert came flying into Longreach from Eng-
land to find Tom, now a director of Quantas,
and on the point of marrying an earl’s
daughter, waiting for him.
W. H. Dow made violins in South Mel-
bourne from the age of 15 years till his
death the other day at 93. His last instru-
ment was his 150th, and every part of them
was fashioned by hand.
Charles Morley Badge, just dead-at Bal-
larat. aged 82, had the big headlines in the
papers one day away back in 1885. He
and a mate were entombed for over nine
hours in an old drive of the Sir Henry
Loch mine, and whilst awaiting rescue the
two, who were devout Wesleyans. filled in
the time singing old Methody hymns.
Gordon Trollope, a grandson of Anthony
and himself the author of many a good
Bulletin short story, has made wool his
life’s business; he was born among sheep
when his father was Land Board chairman
in Far West N.S.W. After a quarter-cen-
tury with a Sydney firm he has been
appointed wool manager for a new concern
which is to start wool sales in Newcastle,
and wdiich begins life with no larger handi-
cap than its name—the New England,
North and North-West Producers’ Co., Ltd.
An interesting visitor to Sydney is S. J.
Jacobi, a Russian-Jewish engineer who was
chief of the Defence Forces formed in Odessa
in the. days when pogroms were a common-
place in Russia. Not one of them happened
in Odessa, where the Jewish force of SUO
armed men could be raised to 2000 at a
moment’s notice. Jacobi is one of the
leaders of the organisation which is helping
Jewish people who have suffered by war,
pogroms and Sovietism ; his business in Aus-
tralia, of course, is to secure funds. Mel-
bourne Jewry sparred up £2OOO.
Passed out in Melbourne, at 92, R. K.
Maitland, one of the best-known of Aus-
tralian turfmen. For years he was V.A.T.C.
handicapper, and held similar posts with
other clubs. The owner of Kingcraft, a
renowned jumper, he was successful on this
horse in India’s Viceroy Cup on three occa-
sions. He rode , some of his own horses in
Australia, and also indulged in turf jour-
nalism.
“Fitz”: Recent claims for record service
by town clerks are beaten by George
William Edwards,* who is resigning his
job at Port Macquarie next month. He
has been council clerk there since that
piece of N.S.W. became a municipality in
1887.
If F. M. J. Baker, 25, clerk in the Petty
Sessions office, Brisbane, who won the Labor
pre-selection for Oxley, wins the seat he
will be the youngest M.H.R. ever elected.
But the anti-Labor majority in Oxley last
time was over 5000.
Total blindness for the last five years was
the fate of J. B. Laurie, a former vice-presi-
dent of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide; but
l ie remained in business, with his son, till
th encL H e was a fine rifle-shot till his
ajoin- fiiwi
& 1 .
Clement 11. Davis lias passed on at <o.
Ge Gle National Bank to found the
Bankers Institute in Melbourne and be-
came a practising accountant. He was a
A. B. SHAND, K.C., who is prosecuting in
the Sydney Town Hall Graft Cases.
Mr. Shand has been for many years
senior standing counsel for The Bul-
LETIN.
member of several accountancy boards, and
lived an intellectual life amidst books on
economics, botany and natural History.
Sam Barclay, after 30 years’ service in
Albert Park School (Vic.), retires at the
usual (55. A genuine sport and a lover of the
Australian boy, oldsters and youngsters are
uniting to do him honor. Frank Beaure-
paire, one of Barclay’s kids, is the head of
the valedictory movement.
Roland Edkins, owner of Piastoon and
prominent Graziers’ Association officer, was
the first white child to come out of the
Gulf country alive. He was born in Mary-
borough, and was taken as a baby to old
Stanton Court station —the Edkinses were
the first Gulf pastoral settlers. Other child-
ren went north with the pioneers and
perished. Roland lived to take part in the
movement which has brought an efficient
flying service and good motor communica-
tion to country which his parents were
compelled to desert in his youth because
of the savagery of the blacks.
Con H. Curtain, recently retired Senior
Inspector of Mines of Tasmania, now writing
his reminiscences for the Launceston Ex-
aminer, was 71 last Sunday (15th).
It is good to see a physician game to
face his own medicine. Canon Williams, of
St. Peter’s, Townsville, who is bordering on
the seventies and is alleged to hold the Aus-
tralian record for marrying others, is him-
self marrying a sweetheart of 30 years ago.
Frank Tate, ex-Director of Education in
Vic., told former fellow-officers who made
him their guest the other night, that he was
a socialist of the sort that believes in private
simplicity and public splendor. State-school
buildings in Vic. are not the gaol-like places
they used to be when Tate took charge of the
department 26 years ago; the modern struc-
tures and their equipment typify what he
regards as public splendor.
Major Furse, of the British Colonial
Office, who is in Sydney making arrange-
ments for the Empire Forestry Conference,
has been on the personal staff of various
Secretaries of State, including Milner, Win-
ston Churchill and the Duke of Devonshire,
and more lately has been secretary to Mr!
Amery. His colleague, R. L. Robinson,
technical commissioner on the British For-
estry Commission, is a South Australian
Rhodes Scholar.
Captain W. V. B. Forrester, who is re-
tiring at the end of the year from his
Queensland jobs of Portmaster, Chairman
of the Marine Board and Chief Shipping
Inspector, is a Cornisher who began his
sea career as a middy in the famous Black-
wall tea clippers. After years of sail and
steam in other seas, he came to Australian
waters to join the A.IJ.S.N. Co., and in
1900 was lent to Lord Brassey, then finish-
ing his term as Governor of Victoria, to
navigate his yacht, the much-travelled Sun-
beam, from Melbourne to England. A
couple of years later he embarked on a
career in the Queensland Government ser-
vice, which is ending with his present'
appointment.
Edward Whitehead, who in 1902 was top
scorer with 101 in the Kolapore Cup rifle
competition, died in Melbourne a few days
ago.
Young Alan Treloar, who went to America
two years ago, with the Farrer scholarship,
to do a year’s research work in cereal chemis-
try, was later awarded a year’s scholarship
by the International Education Board of
New York. Now he will stay for yet another
year, his fellowship having been extended.
“Skipper” Francis, the man who wrote
“Australia Will Be There” and put it on the
market, is back in Sydney. A club-foot kept
the songmaker out of active service himself,
although it could not keep him out of athletics
in his younger days in Wales —once he swam
the British Channel where it is 15 miles
wide. He has sung his way through 19
countries since he last saw Australia.
G. if. Turner, who passed out at Darnum,
near Warragul (Vic.) the other day, in his
83rd year, got some reflected glory in the
late ’nineties by being Whip to the first
Turner Government. Like the head of the
Government the Whip was called George,
and he had to rely upon his middle name,
.Tames, to be distinguished from his chief.
“G.J.” went out of politics in 1900.
Mrs. Catherine Frances Gilfillan, passed
over at Auckland recently, arrived at the
Bay of Inlands in 1839, some months before
the proclamation of British sovereignty and
the coming of the first organised body of
settlers. The family settled at Kororareka,
their landing place, but had to be
rescued from the natives and taken in a
sailing ship to Auckland, where they re-
mained. Mrs. Gilfillan’s father, I>r. W.
Davis, became the first superintendent of
Auckland hospital.
Inky Wayfarer Frank Burke, an ardent
supporter of The Bulletin’s prohibitive-
tariff policy, has been selected to carry
Labor’s banner for Brisbane in the Federal
elections. Burke was beaten by soldier
Cameron six years ago by only 1200 votes,
and the next contest should be interesting.
Prohibitionist Finlayson once held the seat
for Labor.
During his membership of 14 Ministries,
Alec Peacock, the new Vic. Speaker, re-
ceived 4500 deputations. He was generally
patient, but once he exploded violently and
told a roomful of Chihese who came to
protest against specific clauses in a Factories
Bill that they were a “pack of damned liars”
when they said that they were paid the
minimum wage. The Orientals, who had
previously disclaimed any knowledge of
English and had brought an interpreter,
laughed gleefully, and Alec, relaxing and re-
lenting, joined in the chorus of mirth.
A link with Maoriland’s first constitutional
Government broke when Mary Ellen Owen,
G.W. STEAD ,
Chairman of the
Victorian Royal
Commission on
Railways, which
has been stirring
up trouble between
Mr. Clapp and the
politicians.
widow of Sidney
James Owen, read-
er in Indian history
at Oxford U n i.,
died lately. She
was a daughter of
Henry Se w e 11,
M.L.’s first Pre-
mier under respon-
sible government.
Once Sewell took
a running jump
into the gallery,
and locked the
door to prevent
members getting
out before a vote
was taken on a cer-
tain subject. He
died in England 50
years ago.
When 3LO took over the broadcasting
station at Adelaide and 3AR, Melbourne,
Major iCondor didn’t forget old friends.
Lewis, the Major’s batman overseas, was
switched over to take charge of 3AR, and
Ilosking, secretary of the Victorian Listen-
ers’ League and chief publicity-monger for
3LO, was told off to reorganise things at
Adelaide. The 3LO staff is now wondering
who will be deputed to rejuvenate 7ZL,
Hobart, which has also been acquired by the
combine.
ON THE FARM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
High on the rickety reaper-seat Monsieur le
fermier sat,
And clucked at his old slow horses as they
went at their steady bat;
We had heard him bustling about the barn
as we drowsed in the early morn—
Thrones might totter and empires fall, but
Monsieur must reap his corn.
Monsieur le fermier was short of help —La
Pairic had claimed his son—
So we bound the sheaves, and heaped the
stooks, and many a “Bon !” we won, .
And there was many a shrill “L»a, la !” and
much gay laughter when
Ma’m’selle came with a jug of beer for lea
so Ida /.s' A ustralian.
And from the ridges past Bray-sur-Somme,
o’er fields that were bare and brown,
Bringing a tale from another world the
rumble of guns came down;
But the madness and frenzy men had made
seemed far from that tiny plot
Where we bound the sheaves when Monsieur
passed, and the war for a while forgot.
Up and down in the little field the horses
went staid and slow ;
Up at the maison Madame la Mere went
chattering to and fro.
And we wlio’d forgotten saw again, in the
sheaves that we stooped to bind.
That somewhere the earth was fruitful still,
and somewhere the earth was kind.
And we remembered the minutes spent on the
farm when we returned
To where the harvest of hate was reaped and
the fields into mud were churned,
Where the bullets whistled above the trench,
and the smoke of the shrapnel curled,
For we’d found a patch of sanity in a mad
and crumbling world.
W.A.
OSCAR WALLTERS.


WINGS.
“This year France’s air estimate is 45, Italy’s 56 and the United States’ 33 p.c.larger than in 1925. In the meantime international Jurists are trying to reconcile the
Kellogg Peace plan' with the covenant of the League.”
PEACE: “Look at my new wings!” MARS: “ ’M’m! And look at mine!”


BASIC BAIANCE
MEANS Comm
-
I
a.
m i
An — _
V V
m
feSf XfJ f
-wcAV« wii*? L
\\:w.
r'
A
f
\
I\b)
Hear chassis view oj the car oj basic balance,
in which springs, axle, frame, brakes, etc., all
have a balanced relationship.
Tourer
Roadster
Saloon
PRICES:
£565
£565
£640
5 Balloon Tyres and Tubes
Standard Equipment
At Company’s Works, All States.
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR.
BASIC balance, as interpreted in the 20-60 Vauxhall
Six, means not an assemblage of parts but a
complete and unified motor-car ready for any test
that modern motoring may make.
In the securing of basic balance, springing plays a vital
part.
Thus in the 20-60 Vauxhall there is no guesswork in the
spring design. The deflection of each leaf is calculated
with mathematical precision.
Whilst this means unusual riding comfort for the passen-
gers, something more than personal comfort is involved.
The preservation of the car’s mechanism and coachwork
from jolts and strains, road holding qualities and the
maintenance of high average speed are also secured.
Arrange for a trial run. You’ll be astonished at the
speed at which 20-60 Vauxhall can cover rough roads
and greatly impressed with the absence of rolling on
sharp bends.
Learn more about the “Car of Basic Balance”
Arrange a demonstration.
cjhe Mew 2Q^CO
Vauxhall
'yfe Car of Basic Balance, '
ASK YOUR LOCAL DEALER FOR LITERATURE SHOW! i
BODY TYPES AND MECHANICAL FEATURES.
Sydney Distributors:
BOYD EDKINS, LTD.,
109-119 Phillip-street, Sydney.
sd
fsd
Built at Luton,
Bedfordshire,
England.
Distributed throughout Australia by GENERAL MOTORS (AUS.) PTY., LTD.


THE PRIZE NOVEL
COMPETITION.
Altogether 542 entries were received
for “The Bulletin” Prize Novel Compe-
tition, including the following three, Iby
and I,” by U. K. Lyptus, “The Land of
Sunshine,” by The Spider, and The
Beloved Country,” for which sealed
envelopes containing the names and
addresses of the authors are awaited.
The work of choosing the £5OO Prize
Story from this great entry is making
steady progress, and, unless unforeseen
difficulties postpone the final selection, the
first chapters will be printed in The
Bulletin” on September 5.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3d.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's Grand Opera
IJoval, “The Silent House’
Criterion “Sexes and Sevens”
Palace “The Laughing Optimist ’
Empire " f°P Hole
T IVOU Vaudeville
Majestic (Newtown) Shakspeaiean Piays
Regent Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Ills Majesty's “The Girl Friend”
Royal “The Patsy”
Athenjsum .’ “New Brooms”
King’s “The Rudd Family”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Govt's Moving Pictures
+.
After the opulence of “Aida,” in which
Vere de Cristoff relieved Zinetta as Amneris,
displaying a great deal of dramatic grace but
a voice not always up to the other lady’s,
Donizetti’s “The Daughter of the Regiment,”
continuing the Melba-Williamson opera feast-
ing at Sydney Her Majesty’s, gave an impres-
sion of musical slimness. Toti dal Monte, how-
ever, delightfully fitted the role of the vivan-
diere Maine, and a tumult of appreciation,
which began with her singing of “Apparvi
alia luce,” reached a crescendo after the
“Oonvien partir,” with Ihe soldiers melodi-
ously echoing her “addios.” Eomanto, a light-
voiced tenor, was the peasant hero Tonio;
Umberto de Lelio was admirably gruff and
spiritedly melodious as Sergeant Sulpice j
and, Ida Mannarini was a convincing Mar-
chioness dc Berkenficld. To give more musi-
cal weight to the show, the orchestra led off
with Beethoven’s “Leonora” Overture No.
8,. which rather emphasised the lightness of
Donizetti’s music.
# * # *
Lina Seavizzi, in “Manon Lescaut,” a series
of fine stage pictures flooded with rich
melody, was vocally uneven several times,
but she thoroughly gripped the dramatic in-
terest. Angelo Minghetti, as Des Grieux,
helped her with dramatic climaxes, leap-
ing at high notes with a courage deserving
of loud applause, and Fernando Autori re-
presented with artistic subtlety and an im-
pressive bass the Avealthy Geronte. Lescaut
was well played and sung by Emilio Ghirar-
dini. A 25-minutes’ interval between the
VERE DE CRISTOFF, one of the mezzo-
sopranos of the Melba-Williamson
organisation.
first and second acts, although due apology
was made for it on a printed slip in the
programme, caused the Avorst grouch against
the show\
* * * *
Hina Spani’s excellent lyric style and her
general appealfulness accounted for her suc-
cess as the ill-used princess of “Lohengrin”
whose natural curiosity to know something
about her husband brings her fresh trouble,
even after Rossi Morelli, a particularly fierce
and impressive Telramund, nas been disposed
of. A touch of the bellow r s action affected
Ettore Cesabianclii, who, however, scaled the
heights with Spani in the melodious love
duets of the third act. Giuseppina Zinetta
occasionally lacked breadth of tone, but she
w'as effective as the wife-confederate of the
red-bearded Telramund, and Umberto de
Lelio was a King Henry whose voice was
impressive enough, but who looked most of
the time as if he was merely part of the
stage furniture.
% $ *
Toti dal Monte had to make up in vocal
inches for a lack of stature when “Lucia di
Lammermoor” was given the stage on
Saturday. Although vocally magnificent, she
give the impression that she would be much
more likely to break into a. bright smile
than to go mad. Her wreathing of sweet
sounds so appealed to a packed audience
that for the first time in the season it showed
a tendency to break into the singing with
applause. Ravagnoli, conducting, helped
admirably in skating over the crevices which
occur in Donizetti’s otherwise excellent
work.
* :!= *
The next first night comes to-night (Wed-
nesday) with the bracketed “Cavalleria”
and “Pagliacci”; and “Madame Butterfly”
will arrive on Saturday. The matinee
tliis week will be on Thursday, w'ith “Lohen-
grin.” “Manon” is set down for the evening
performance, with “Aida” again for Friday,
and “The Daughter of the Regiment” for the
Saturday matinee.
A bagman of honest laughter is Percy
Hutchison, who exhibited his first line of
goods, “The Laughing Optimist,” at Sydney
Palace on Saturday. The healthy dialogue
contains plenty of the yeast of laughter, and
Hutchison is a man who will not; miss any
of it, even though he has to go after it at
times with something like ferocity. An even
cast, which includes Townsend Whitling, who
was here with “The Farmer's Wife,” makes
the comedy run with speed and purpose.
Frances Dillon, as an author’s wife who
loves him but thinks that his right role is
that of a money-making machine, is the most
distinguished member.
¥ ¥ ¥
Allan Wilkie, with the fires of concealed
passion breaking out in vermilion face-
herbage, was the duke’s deputy, Angelo, in
“Measure for Measure” at the Newtown
(Sydney) Majestic last Saturday. The play
does not possess a bedroom scene, but, so
to speak, lingers greatly in the ante-room to
the bedchamber, and, courageously declin-
ing to cut the obstetric dialogue too severely,
Wilkie made a good production of it. Miss
Hunter-Watts and Lorna Forbes, as the
saintly Isabella and the jilted Mariana,
played the leading women’s parts. The sea-
son is nearing its last week; “Henry VIII.”
returns for the two performances to-day
(Wednesday) ; “The Merry Wives of Wind-
sor” for Thursday and Friday, and on Satur-
day “The Taming of the Shrew” will com-
mence a run of a matin6e and three night
performances.
¥ ¥ ¥
Three theatrical changes come in Sydney
this week: Margaret Bannerman turns from
“Our Betters” to “Sexes and Sevens” on
Saturday night; on the same night Mosco-
vitch, with “The Silent House,” appears
again at the Theatre Royal, and “When
London Sleeps” will give way to “The Face
at the Window” at the Grand Opera House.
¥ ¥ ¥
James Kemper, with his companions, re-
mains at Sydney Tivoli, whose management
is spreading itself about the coming of the
“20 Ingenues,” a feminine band of jazz and
beauty, due next Monday. For some x’eason
it is. being announced that “every girl is a
single girl.”
¥ ¥ ¥
Frank O’Brian, of the London Revue Co.,
now giving* a variation of the Stiffy and Mo
business at Fullers’ Theatre (Sydney), is a
versatile chap who does a bit of everything;
but the best thing he has done is to create
the slickness which is the mark of the
new show.
¥ ¥ ¥
It is so far from the commonplace it
should be that the presence of two Aus-
tralian-made films in Sydney picture houses
at one time calls for special mention. One,
“The F'ar Paradise,” is at the Regent. It
was made by the enterprising McDonagli
sisters, one of whom is its star. The William-
son actress, Zillah Bateman, nas the lead
in “Caught in the Net,” the other local
product, which is being screened at the
Haymarket. “Speedy.” at the Capitol, shows
Harold Lloyd still breezily amusing. “Sun-
rise” is to occur at the Prince Edward on
Friday.
¥ ¥ ¥
In view of the prevailing financial de-
pression, “New Brooms,” the latest American
comedy at Melbourne Athenseum. should
thrive. It is like the dream of a Ford car
to a retrenched civil servant, or the smell
of the cookshop to a down-and-out. The
rustle of 100-dollar bills forms an intermezzo
to talks about getting on, and the obligate
of chat concerning oil shares is an inspiration
to the young to be up and doing someone.
The thing is well conceived and admirably
done. It introduces a new exponent of the
modern realistic school in Leona Hogarth,
who does so well with a niggard part that
even the sophisticated playgoer is apt to
thirst for more. Wyrley Birch supplies a
remarkably plausible broommaker, and Leon-
ard Doyle doesn’t jar as his son.
¥ ¥ ¥
“Good Noavs,” at Melb. Princess, continues
to be the leggiest show in toAvn, but it
fails to attract on histrionic and vocal
grounds, largely owing- to the youth and
rawness of various Murcans imported as stars.
GIUSEPPINA ZINETTE, mezzo-soprano,
who, amongst other things, is the
haughty princess in “Aida” with the
Melba-Williamson Opera Company.
Dick Bell has departed from the cast, and
Australian comedian Stan Foley is now suc-
cessfully bouncing from a bed into a coal-
scuttle in his place. Marie Delaine, another
replacement for a defective American war-
bler, is English. She is hard in a part
which calls for fluffiness, and she isn’t
fluffy; but she has a pleasing voice.
* >¥ *
The Firm now announces that His
Majesty’s, Melbourne, will hot “Hit the
Deck” till the 28th. On Saturday “She Knew
What She Wanted” will be staged at the
Palace by Frank Neil.
* ¥ ¥
Nobody will get insomnia trying to guess
the ending to “The Rudd Family” at Mel-
bourne King’s. Steele Rudd seems to have
taken his most rambling essay on country life
and casually introduced it to the stage.
The dramatic construction is no worse than
that of “On Our Selection,” but that isn’t
saying a h—l of a great deal, by cripes, it
ain’t. Why Marie D’Alton, who as Mum
does much to keep farm and plot together,
should have a daughter as bright as Millie
Carlton and two such looney sons is a case
for the stage biologist to explain.
¥ ¥ ¥
“Rosmersholm,” Ibsen’s story of the
emancipated Rebecca West, who drives Pastor
Rosmer’s wife to suicide in order to obtain
a not very entertaining mate, was the best
of a series of Little Art Theatre productions
at Melb. Queen’s Hall lately. Claude Thomas
painted the lurid past of the Rev. Rosmer
in a somewhat pallid manner, and J. Har-
court Bailey, as Rector Kroll. was mainly
a prompter’s microphone; but Hettie Fener-
man, as Mademoiselle West, and Alice Best,
as a stately Madam Ilalseth, provided some
moments of dramatic worth. “The Awaken-
ing of Spring,” by Wedekind, and Tchekhov s
“The Bear” are among the next contem-
plated outbreaks of the indefatigable Beres-
ford Fowler.
H- * *
Annie Croft, Gus Bluett, May Beatty,
Lance Fairfax and a fascinating ballet will
man the decks of 11.M.5. Inscrutable on
Saturday at His Majesty’s, when “Hit the
Deck” will be given its Australian premiere.
After a short sleep, the comedy will like-
wise be awakened with “The High Road,”
to be presented by the Yanbrugh-Boucicaults.
“The Patsy” is still in session at the Royal,
and should continue to sesh for some time
to come.
H*
A good bill confronts the Melbourne Tivoli-
goer in Joe Kelso and his mates. The
comedian with the small hat and the large
company—large for vaudeville —provides an
overwhelming show, but it shan’t be allowed
to overwhelm the whistling of Ray Ryan as
far as present notice is concerned. Ryan’s
pipe, unassisted by instrumental aids, is a
remarkable affair, more prone to strength
than sweetness, but expressive withal.
* # ¥
“The Devil Dancer” is the feature at
Hoyt’s Melbourne house this week. Clive
Brook climbs over the perpendicular scenery
of Tibet and finds a white girl imprisoned
in a temple by the Lhasan priests. Then
they both climb back over the scenery
and escape. Gilda Grey is the leading girl.
At the Majestic “Ginsberg the Great” is
providing good farce.
H- * *
The Boucicault season at Adelaide Royal
is a series of fine performances by that artist
and McKinnel, with J. B. Rowe prominent
among the younger men. Miss Vanbrugh
showed her versatile artistry by switching
from the unpleasant “Letter” to the frivol-
ously-funny “Caroline” in the same day. In
pictures, Richard Barthelmess' agonises in
the shadow of the gallows at Wondergraph in
a “powerful” play, “The Noose”; John Gil-
bert bootlegs and fights piratically in “Twelve
Miles Out” at the Regent.
“Santander” : My latest communique from
New York reports that Harrison Owen’s
comedy, “The Happy Husband,” is in its
■fifth week at the Empire there, and is show-
ing the city’s most exclusive society how to
hold its knife when peas are about. The
takings up to now have averaged 12,000
dollars a week, which for a house holding
about 1000 is pretty decent. Owen is lucky
to have a magnificent cast, headed by Billie
Burke and including Irene Browne. Billie
Burke has hurried past her first bloom and
matured considerably as an actress, but she
is the wife of Florenz Ziegfeld of the famous
Follies, and her personal popularity is such
that Owen will probably notice it in his
royalties.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: The suicide of Jenny
Golder adds to the number of contracts
which the Tivoli has had to wipe off. It is
dilficult for the vaudeville entrepreneur who
seeks expensive stars to know exactly where
he is in regard to his people. For instance,
the immanence of the arrival of the clown
Glock has been announced many times
during the last two years. Glock has signed
a contract, but he is only pledged to come
when his existing contracts are at an end. and
there is the right of renewal in most of those.
So Glock sometimes thinks he is coming,
and then finds he isn’t, and Tivoli patrons
are inclined to regard him as a phantom.
Similar contracts are made with other stars,
but when they will arrive is always doubt-
ful. Once the Tiv. management was distressed
by the arrival together of four star turns
just when they were not wanted.


%
For Drives Where Other Belts Fail
“Platypus” Waterproof Leather Belting is made to
work under conditions where no other belt will
give satisfaction, on drives where moisture in any
form is present.
“PLATYPUS” WATERPROOF LEATHER BELTING
is absolutely water- and steam-proof, and acid-resistant to a remarkable degree. In Tanneries,
freezing works, dairy factories and other plants where moisture in any form is present, there
is nothing to equal “Platypus” Belting. Manufactured and guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI (a SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson & Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
IWonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
FOR SAFETY AND
SATISFACTION FIT
Raybestos
df
Brake Lining
‘SILVER EDGE”
“GOLD EDGE” (Heavy Duty)
Representative: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. BOX 71, Melbourne.
The
WILD CAT
COLUMN
Meggitt, Ltd. (Sydney).
, Dividends *.
Pref.
May, Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. Reserves.
1918.. 67.627 3994 20 p.c. = 8,963 51,962
Transferred to caoital. £29.876 .. .. 22,086
1919.. 21,236 4000 20 p.c. = 14,938 24,384
Co. reconstructed. One fully-paid £1 ord.
issued for each of the 248,966 10s. ords.
and £1 10 p.c. first and second prefs. issued
for each of the 20,000 first and 20,000
second prefs. in old co. Goodwill increased
by £lOO,BlO.
Deficit.
1921.. 7,525 2000 4 p.c. = 11,526 121,749
Loss.
1922.. 20,710 2000 Nil 144,495
Profit.
1923.. 36.857 8000* Nil 115,638
1924.. 27,725 4000 5 p.c. = 16,368 108,281
1.925. . 21,410 4000 5 „ ~ 16,368 107,239
1926.. 5.892 4000 Nil 105,347
1927.. 30,115 4000 61 p.c. = 20,461 99,693
1928.. 30,027 4000 7i„ „ 24,552 98,218
* Includes arrears.
A drop of £4131 in gross profit (£80,386),
almost wholly offset by a cut of £4042 in
exes. (£50,359), suggests that the year was
not quite as good as its. predecessor.
Nevertheless, an extra If p.c. was passed
out to the ords., making 7| p.c. for the year,
and the larger distribution, including the
prefs.’ 10 p.c., left only £1475 of the year’s
earnings in the business as against £5454
in the previous term. This narrow margin
may be taken to mean that the board is
satisfied that the outlook is right.
Since the 1920 reconstruction shareholders
have averaged a shade under 31 p.c., worth a
lot more to old holders ; but there is now
£23,531 more capital represented by
tangible assets than there was eight years
ago, and that helps. Profit earning, however,
is largely governed by price movements in
the raw’ linseed markets—S. America and
India. These sources of supply are so far
awrny that heavy forward buying and sub-
stantial stocks are inevitable; and it is
there that mischief creeps in, as illustrated
by the 1922 and 1926 figures. Another large
problem with which the co. is faced is that
oil and cake arc made in one operation from
a single raw material. The production of
meal is, therefore, partly governed by the
demand for oil, which represents approxi-
mately one out of every three tons of seed
crushed. It is mainly because of this that
local industry seeks protection against im-
ported oil, which sells freely here on account
of being packed in iron drums, which are
cheap in Europe but have a substantial
second-hand value in Australia.
Thanks to the management’s energetic
work in demonstrating the value of the co.’s
meal as a stock food, the demand for it has
outstripped the demand for oil of recent
years. The problem thus created was larg dy
solved last year when chairman S. iW.
Phillips induced Michael Nairn and Co.,
the big Scottish lino, people, to take over the
business of the Linoleum Manufacturing
Co. of Australia, Ltd. Meggitt’s also be-
came interested in the new concern—Michael
Nairn and Co. (Australia), Ltd.—which will
shortly commence the manufacture of lino,
on a large scale. The importance of this
move, which will put Meggitt’s business
largely on a new foundation, becomes
apparent when it is remembered that lino,
is nearly one-third linseed oil.
Balance-sheet figures are moving in the
right direction:—
1922. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital.. £367,369 £367,369 £367,369 £367,369
Liabilities . . 19,188 138,593 58,541 44,419
Premises and
plant . . 99,995 161,635 155,374 158,733
(Stocks .. 69,410 179,936 101,409 86,257
Book debts .. 55,405 57,911 64,282 58,314
Cash, etc. .. 17,251 3,132 19,427 24,543
The more or less liquid surplus (£124,695),
including stocks, is £22,309 stronger than
it was two years ago. Despite a larger turn-
over, drafts against linseed shipments,
£31,842 at May 31, are actually £73,569
lower than at the close of accounts in 1926.
Over the same period the book value of
stocks has been worked down £93,679, and
now stands at £86,257, which is the lowest
figure for the last five years. No hint is
given as to wbat has been put by for de-
preciation and contingencies, but the figures
suggest that the matter has not been over-
looked. Nevertheless, profits are likely to
remain sensitive to fluctuations in the rawr-
seed market, especially until the Tariff
Board give* the co. the protection it
deserves.
The market, which looks at the net tan-
gible backing for the scrip—14s. per fully-
paid ord. share —takes a cautious view of
the future and offers 14s. 9d. The return at
that figure, after allowing for the final div.
(9d.), is 10.7 p.c. on a 7-J p.c. div. basis.
The 10 p.c. cum. prefs.—there are 20,000
firsts and a like number of seconds —seldom
appear on ’Change. Their backing amonnts
to £l3 9s. 2d. and £l2 9s. 2d. respectively,
and last year’s net profit was 7i times their
combined annual requirements.
Allen Taylor and Co., Ltd. (Sydney).
To Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1918.. 12,563 8 p.c. = 12,000 563 34,802
1919.. 22,614 13 „ „ 19,500 3114 37,916
1920.. 17,812 10 „ „ 15,000 2812 40,728
2921.. 17,622 10 .. „ 15,000 2622 43,350
1922.. 17,708 10 „ „ 15,000 2708 46,058
1923. . 17,018 10 „ „ 15,000 2018 48,076
1924.. 16,106 10 „ „ 15,000 1106 49,182
1925.. 13,142 10 „ „ 15,000 47,324
1926.. 18,655 9 ~ ~ 13,500 155 47,479
1927.. 7,653 4 „ „ 6,000 1553 49,032
1928.. 1,843 Nil 1843 50,875
For the first time since the co. was formed
in 1905 shareholders have gone hungry. The
depressed state of the timber trade and keen
competition are responsible. A reasonable
volume of business was handled, the board
says, but margins were so fine that the
year’s net result withered to a mere 1.2 p.c.
on paid capital compared with 5, 9.1, 8.7 and
10.7 p.c. back to 1924, when the present
depression in the industry set in.
That conditions have become worse each
succeeding year is obvious from the trend of
the figures. And trading has been even
poorer than the profits indicate, because the
co. has £43,000 invested outside the business,
mostly in public securities and on fixed de-
posit. It looks, therefore, as though last
> ear’s ordinary trading resulted in a loss.
For the last five years average net earnings
were 6.9 p.c. as against 12.1 p.c. for the
preceding quinquennium, and over'the same
periods shareholders averaged 6.6 p.c. and
10.6 p.c. respectively. Also in the last five
years the net visible increase in reserves
was only £2799 compared with £13,274 in the
first half of the last decade.
Yet that is only a mildly unfavorable ex-
perience compared with that of others in the
industry. For one thing, Allen Taylors have
not been hit so hard as some by the heavy
imports of softwoods. Its connection with
shipping on the N. S. Wales coast, its
concentration upon big timbers, and its suc-
cessful salesmanship have helped it to win
steady returns in the past. When the indus-
try recovers, and conditions become more
normal, some of those factors should help
again. Nevertheless conditions have so much
changed that the future is full of uncer-
tainty. For one thing the use of steel as
uprights and beams in constructional work
and of concrete in bridgework has limited
the co.’s field, and will go on limiting it.
Another feature is the steadily increasing
overhead. Altogether there is not much that
is bright in the picture.
However, the balance-sheet position is com-
fortable enough. Here is a comparison of
figures since 1924 :
1924. 1926. 1927 1928
Paid capital.. £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 93,532 69,461 78,092 72,745
Country mills,
etc. .. 67,378 65,652 64,116 67,113
City, wharves,
freeholds,
mills, plant,
etc. .. 17,107 16,200 14,350 14,097
Vessels . . 18,560 15,735 22,429 22,065
Book debts, etc. 55,611 38,989 47,869 58,939
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. . 54,124 55,370 50,963 53,269
Stocks .. 87,435 80,994 77,396 58,137
The most doubtful item there is “country
mills, etc.” (£67,113) up £2997 during the
year. The purchase of a new locomotive was
responsible for the increase. Stocks
(£58,137) have .been worked down £35,994 in
the last three years and are now lower than
at any time since 1918. Including stocks, the
more or less liquid surplus (£97,600) was
a trifle lighter than at the previous balance,
and £6038 less than at the close of accounts
in 1924. Another indication of hard times
in the industry is that investments, re-
ferred to above, have remained unchanged
for the past five years. For 15 years prior
to that the item annually increased. No
hint is given as to what provision has been
made in recent years for depreciation and
contingencies.
The market, doubtful of the future, pays
only 11s. for the pound shares, which on
book values have a net tangible backing of
265. 9d. —13s. of it surplus liquids, including
stocks; Bs. lid., country mills; 2s. lid.,
vessels; Is. lid., mostly metropolitan free-
hold.
Peters-Arctic Delicacy Co., Ltd.
This Brisbane co. is a reconstruction and
enlargement of Arctic Ice Creams, Ltd., a
little concern which started about four years
ago. At March 31, 1927, it had a paid capi-
tal of £10,621, and for the 12 months to that
date netted £2860 and paid 15 p.c. Last
year it put a feather in its cap by inducing
the very successful Peters’ American Deli-
cacy Co., of Sydney, which had decided to
extend operations to Brisbane, to become
interested. The outcome was the formation
of the present co. with a nominal capital
of £250,000. Peters sold the Queensland
rights to its processes and formulas and
trading agencies, including “Nizer” Power
Cabinets, to the new concern for £20,000 in
fully paids and an option to take up at par
a further 20,000 shares in any new issue
that the Queensland co. might make within
the next five years. Shareholders in the
Arctic Co. got £20,000 in fully paids for their
holdings, including £BOOO for goodwill, and
also a par option over a further 20,000 shares
on terms similar to Peters. Then, to pro-
vide for the erection and equipment of a
new ice-cream factory and for the general
operations of the business, 110,000 new
shares, of which 2000, were earmarked for
employees, were offered to the public and
quickly snapped up. Thus subscribed capi-
tal became £150,000, of which £67,181 was
paid up at March 31.
For the 12 months to that date the old
plant turned in a net £3495, after striking
£212 off preliminary exes. (£2200), and
shareholders were handed 10 p.c. (£3312).
What the new factory and plant are ex-
pected to run into is not mentioned, but
this comparison of balance-sheet figures of
the old and new cos. shows what had been
done at the close of last accounts: —
1927. 1928.
Old 00. New Co.
Paid capital £10,621 £67,181
Creditors .. .. .. 2,475 5,520
Freehold, land and buildings.. Nil 4,174
Plant, etc. .. . ! . . 7,092 17,797
Stock 1,471 2,149
Book debts . . .. .. 1,351 2,233
Cash, etc. ' 3,121 23,196
Goodwill, etc. .. .. .. 3,100 30,200
The intention is to call the contribs. to
15s. eaclp so there is another £55,250 of
capital to be got in. It is not expected
that the new plant will be operating until
next season, so nothing much in the way of
profits need be looked for at next balance.
Meantime some of Peters’ technical and other
staff are assisting the new co., which has
also made provision for the extension of its
trading operations outside Brisbane. The
climate should help turnover, and if the
management can keep costs in hand the out-
look is bright.
The market, much impressed by the suc-
cess of Peters’ business in N. S. Wales —F.
A. B. Peters is also on the board of the
Queensland co.—-backs the management and
discounts the future by offering 12s. 3d.
for the 55.-paid shares. For the fully-paids
sellers are asking 295. 6d.
Perkins’s Brewery.
Because keen competition and high costs
have made it difficult to win profits, share-
holders in Perkins and 00., Ltd., the Queens-
land brewers, who made an ordinary trading
loss of £16,561 and paid no div. last year, are
asked to agree to the sale of the co.’s Too-
woomba brewery, part of its Brisbane plant,
trade-marks, etc., and the trade (only) of
its 19 freehold hotels for 25 years, and of
50 leasehold hotels for the terms of their
leases, to the Castlemaine, Quinlan Gray
Co. The latter co. is to pay £lOO,OOO in
12s. 6d. shares. Stock-in-trade is to be taken
over at valuation for cash—£3o,ooo down
and the balance, if any, over 12 months.
Stocks, at Feb. 29, appeared in Perkins’s
sheet at £97,545. Under the agreement Per-
kins is not to carry on any brewing, malting,
wine or spirit business for 12 years from
July 31, 1928. Also the Castlemaine Co.
will change its sign to Castlemaine, Perkins,
Ltd.
The Perkins Co. retains “the whole of its
other assets, including 19 freehold hotels, 50
leases, three freeholds in Mary and Margaret
streets, Brisbane, valuable interests in other
cos., machinery, office furniture, etc., and
over £200,000 of secured loans and book
debts.” The interests in other cos. apparently
refer to the Castlemaine shares, yet to be
received; at sny rate, no holdings in other
concerns appeared in Perkins’s last balance-
sheet. The liquidation of the secured loans
and the cash consideration should enable the
board to lighten the outside debt —£390,198,
at Feb. 29. It was then £64,773 in excess of
the more or less liquids, including stocks.
No reference is made to Perkins’s future
plans, nor is there any mention of what is
to be done with the Brisbane freeholds,
plant, etc., not taken over—fixed assets w’ere
in at £468,808 at the close of last accounts.
Its paid capital is £374,673.
To carry out its part of the programme
the Castlemaine Co. is to increase its nomi-
nal capital to £625,000 by the creation of
400,000 new 12s. 6d. shares. Of these
190.000 are to be offered to present share-
holders at par. The balance (50,000 shares)
will be held in reserve. When all the new
money is in and the issue to the Perkins
Co. complete, Castlemaine’s paid capital will
be £591.344. An 8 p.c. div. will then call
for £47,307, or £4629 more than was netted
for the 12 months to July 31 last. At that
date reserves totalled £58,982. On the mar-
ket Castlemaine scrip is at 19s. 3d.; Per-
kins pound shares are around 15s. 6d. The
latter figure is largely a gamble on the
realisable value of the assets not to be taken
over.
Assurance and Thrift Association, Ltd.
Added Assur-
to ance
Mar., Revenue. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.
& £ £ & £
1917.. 13,021 1031 6756 6,234 25,593
1918.. 14,321 2258 5868 6,195 31,788
Transferred to contingencies reserve, £395 31,393
1919.. 16,587 3041 5943 ’ 7,603' 38,996
1920.. 18,703 3031 7041 8,631 47,627
1921.. 24,022 2718 8131 13,173 60,800
1922.. 21,473 2299 8382 f 0 709 7n
Transferred to reserve fund, £lOOO )
1923.. 26,045 5002 9173 11,870 82,462
1924.. 31,704 3736 8070 19,898 102,360
1925.. 27,495 6511 9892 ) 0 nQ9 a n<>
Transferred to reserve fund, £2OOO J ’ ’
1926.. 33,101 5783 11,581 15,737 127,189
1927.. 34,078 8420 11,889 13,769 140,958
1928.. 35,289 7575 11,813 15,901 156,859
including divs.: 1912-18, 4 p.c.; .1919, 5 p.c.;
1920, 6 p.c. ; 1921-23, 7 p.c. ; 1924-28, 8 p.c.
Although these are difficult times for the
small life office whose management keeps to
the narrow path of sound policy writing, this
Sydney co., which never has joined in the
frenzied hunt for big new-busihess figures,
continues to plod slowly along a safe and
profitable course. It has taken it 10 years to
double its income, and after 18 years of policy
writing renewal premiums amount to only
£20,505. Last year £103,325 of new busi-
ness was written under 473 policies, or £2053
less than was put on the books under 485
policies in the previous term. First pre-
miums were £3105 as against £3488 in 1927.
What it cost to write the new business is
obscured by the expense of managing the
property investments. Apart from divs., the
cost of running the whole business was 28.1
p.c. of the total income last year compared
with 29.4 p.c. and 29.6 p.c. in the two pre-
ceding years. Claims (£7575) were £845
lighter, but surrenders (£2653) are on the
increase.
However, when liabilities under policies
have been valued there has always been
enough left over to give policy-holders a
bonus and shareholders a div. The latter
have had 8 p.c. in each of the last four
years. At the last triennial investigation,
March 31, 1927, a surplus of £14,961 was
disclosed, of which £11,183 was distributed
amongst policy-holders. The co. assumes
that its life fund, £156,859 at March 31, will
earn only 31 p.c.; the same rate is assumed
by the big offices. Actually interest ami
rents turned in 6.7 p.c. on average funds in
the life and house-purchase branch last year
compared with 7.1 p.c. and 7.3 p.c. in 1927
and 1926 respectively. With conservative
underwriting the management mixes a little
speculative activity by purchasing land for
sale by subdivision. During the last six
years profits from this source have totalled
no less than £17,328, and over the same
period interest, etc., brought in £48,436, and
exes., including divs., called for £62,418.
That is to say, the whole of the underwrit-
ing surplus over the period in question plus
an extra £3346 has remained in the busi-
ness for the benefit of policy-holders.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
makes plain the board’s policy:—
1925. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital . . £23,333 £23,333 £23,333 £23,333
Liabilities - . . 6,692 5,334 5,154 3,731
Freeholds . . . . 34,943 37,024 38,068 39,274
Equipment .. 902 1,190* 964 837
Mortgages, etc. .. 83,058 85,788 86,200 94,795
Loans on policies .. 8,092 9,815 10,018 12,758
Shares in other cos. 15,992 22,202 29,592 22,963
Public securities .. 4,740 4,902 7,962 18,928
Book debts . . 3,734 4,510 4,577 5,664
Cash, etc. . . 1,261 3,136 5,124 3,727
The £23,333 of paid capital represents 6s. Bd.
on 70,000 £1 shares. Mora than 67 p.c. of
the total assets is represented by freeholds
and mortgages. The latter includes £21,362
of advances under the co.’s house-purchase
policies. There has been a substantial in-
crease in gilt-edged investments, but the
nature of the co.’s operations precludes large
holdings in that direction. There is, how-
ever, a wide margin between net assets and
the liability under life contracts and the
risks under other policies. The latter com-
prise a small fire-and-accident business,
which brought in £4489 of premiums last
year, after meeting claims (£486) and
exes. (£2670) there was an underwriting sur-
plus (£1333) of 26.4 p.c., which with £629
of interest made the contingency fund £7SB6.
Managing-director Dovey, an actuary of the
old safety-first school, is at the helm.
At the annual meeting of the F.M.S.
Chamber of Mines the president declared
that world over-production was a bogey of
the bears. At the end of last year there
were 70 dredges at work in Malaya, 21 under
construction and 23 on order. By the end
of the current year it is expected that 99
machines will be at work. The increased
output is estimated at 4000 tons metallic
tin, making the total output this year 56,000


claims
Prohibition is claimed to have en-
sured the PROSPERITY of the
U.S.A.
Prohibition is claimed to be a RE-
VOLT against the abuse of drink.
Prohibition is claimed to be a virtue
which brings all vice into the OPEN.
Prohibition is supposed to protect
HOME-LIFE.
Prohibition claims to promote IN-
DUSTRY.
Prohibition claims that BOOT-
LEGGING can quickly be stamped
out.
Prohibition is alleged to minimise
INIQUITY.
Prohibition is said to bring about
TEMPERANCE.
Prohibition is supposed to promote
INTEGRITY.
Prohibitionists state that their law
promotes ORDER.
Prohibition advocates claim to seek
NATIONAL PROSPERITY.
PROHIBITION HA* BEEN AM
UTTER FAIIURE WHEREVER TRIED
"ton
facts
Economists have proved conclusively
that the prosperity of America is
NOT due to Prohibition at all, and
that Prohibition is a shackle on the
national life.
Prohibition invariably proves itself
to be a cause of revolt against estab-
lished law and order.
The experience of other nations is
that Prohibition fosters vice by driv-
ing it underground.
Prohibition destroys the privacy of
the home and puts it under immedi-
ate supervision by officials.
Prohibition would unload upon both
Capitalists and Workers of N.S.W.
a gigantic burden of extra taxation.
Experience shows that it is the boot-
legging element which most strongly
supports Prohibition.
Prohibition has naturally created
more new forms of iniquity than any
' other law.
Prohibition and Temperance are
diametrically opposed because Pro-
hibition itself is intemperate.
Prohibition actually induces crime,
deceit and a contempt for law and
order.
Prohibition has invariably brought
strife and lawlessness in its train.
Prohibition would cost the people
of N.S.W. £20,000,000 in compen-
sation plus £4,600,000 annually in
loss of revenue to the Common-
wealth, with £3,500,000 cost of
enforcement.
Vote for the HONEST Ticket
YOTE NO'
Inserted by the CITIZENS’ RIGHTS AND LIQUOR REFORM ASSOCIATION,
to further the cause of Liberty and Freedom of Action. Financial Support is
invited, and Subscriptions for Membership will be received at BELMONT
CHAMBERS, 15 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.


Financing Factories.
Big Money in it.
This is one of many matters “THE
WILD CAT’ MONTHLY” for July
discusses.
Saturation Point:
Has it been reached?
That’s another point discussed.
The Investor can’t do without it.
NOW READY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or Tiie Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock + GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Advt.
* * * *
As well as being non-corroding, Pioneer Wood Pipe
has other practical advantages that make it wondei-
fully convenient. It is very light, weighing only
one-third as much as metal pipe, easy to handle and
simple to instal. It retains initial capacity through-
out its long service and incurs no upkeep. M rite
for a free copy of a book of complete reliable in-
formation. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road (near Fig Tree Bridge), Lane Cove,
N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE HOPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd-,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Sydney; J. If.
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses.—Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Cast.ereagh
Street Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coldison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.Iv.C.”
Probate Contract.
this investment to meet the
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a cburse which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
&
YG
«*ODRD &> SON
lOHDON.ENOI.AND v
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
A
Swift & Cuiiiimn.v Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 26 30 Clurenre St.. Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office iii Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. 0. BROWN, General Manager.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
tons. Provided Chinese production remains
constant, the output for 1929 is put at
62,000 tons; for 1930, 64,000 tons. It is
thought that the latter will be the peak
year. No really important new fields have
been discovered, and the constant growth
in demand for the metal has led to. an inten-
sive exploitation of old ones. It is claimed
that many of the Chinese mines are
approaching the end of the richer ground,
and are only carrying on with difficulty.
The chairman could see no prospect of an
immediate rise, but thought prices would
fluctuate, a profitable average being main-
tained.
* * * . *
There is talk of reopening Mt. Morgan. A
Southern group, which has taken an option
oyer the property, is incubating a co. with
a share capital of about £250,000, of which
£50,000 is to be offered in Queensland, and
two men from the northern State are to be
on the board. The capital is said to have
been underwritten.
At May 31, 1927, the mine and plant of the
old Mt. Morgan Co., now in liquidation, stood
in the books at £638,457. There was then
abut 8,000,000 tons of ore proved and esti-
mated to be worth anything up to £16,000,000.
Costs were the trouble. For the last six
years the old cods wages bill ate.no less than
80.2 p.c. of the income from mine products.
Finally it was proposed to work the property
by open cut, and General-manager Boyd
figured an operating profit of about 4s. 3d.
per ton, but since interest and amortisation
would call for 4s. Bd., the idea was aban-
doned.
No details of how the new crowd proposes
to work the deposits have been made avail-
able.
* * * *
Belford Dome’s two structural bores have
proved the existence of approximately
371,250,000 tons of bituminous coal in five
seams, varying from 10ft. to 3ft. in thick-
ness. at depths of from 1450 ft. to 3000 ft.
over 13,500 acres around Belford. The
seams are part of the Greta measures. In a
little over 12 months No. 2 bore got down
to 1666 ft.; No. 1 stopped at 1550 ft. The
co.’s objective, however, is oil, and for the pur-
pose of testing the lower measures a 16in.
Vickers-Armstrong boring plant, capable of
going to 4000 ft., has been ordered. The cost
is not stated, nor is anything said about
the present financial position). Approxi-
mately 50,000 shares have been issued and
called to ss. each, and only a few thousand
pounds of Federal Gevernment subsidy
(£22,500) has been spent. Shareholders,
however, are being offered £lO,OOO of de-
bentures.
* * * *
A specimen of galena, with a core of gold
about the size of a duck’s egg, together with
some small, rounded, blackish-coated stones,
consisting largely of gold, which were de-
posited in the Berlin Museum before the
war, is the bait dangled by the Bismarck
Range (New Giiinea) Gold Exploration,
N.L., for the purpose of attracting £l2 500
in 100,000 2s. 6d. shares. Of these, 18,000
pailds go to the “prospector,” 12,000 to the pro-
moters and 60,000 are offered at 3d. a nibble.
The museum specimens are said to have been
discovered by one Ivlinck during a walk-
about in the Bismarck Ranges. When he
went back to really rob the nest the natives
killed him. That, by the way, appears to
have been the fate of most of the Germans
who found gold in New Guinea before the
war. The present prospector, who has “in-
formation of a valuable and definite charac-
ter from German official sources,” will receive
his cut when he secures leases for the co.
But the re-discovery of the nest where the
oof-bird lays the golden eggs may not be an
easy task. German maps with yellow spots
on them have lured many expeditions into
the ranges. Some returned wiser but few
returned richer.
Mt. Isa (Q.) bores are in the deep coun-
try now. No. 2 B, on the Rio Grande, has
touched 740 ft.. and is passing through nar-
row bands of zinc-lead sulphide apparently
in the footwall country. No. 3 A, on the
Black Star, was stopped at 900 ft. after cut-
ting 10 feet of ore, whose probable true
thickness is about six feet on account of the
steep inclination of the lodes. These deep
sulphide bands in the Rio Grande and the
Star are remarkably similar in lead, zinc and
silver ratios, but values are on the low side.
They probably give a clue to mineral associa-
tion and values to be expected in the main
lodes at depths around 1000 ft. Mundie is
making its appearance rather freely in depth,
but need not cause any worry in concentra-
tion by gravity or flotation methods. If
values are a bit low in depth at Isa it can
be said that the freedom of the ore from
impurities in treatment makes some amends.
# ❖ *
Walter E. Cameron, ex-Government Geolo-
gist of Queensland, who recently returned
from a three years’ engagement in Malaya,
has gone to Roma under engagement to a
Brisbane oil-prospecting group. His object
is to bag a few domes where oil may have
been retained, and the prospects of such do
not appear hopeless when it is considered
that Dr. Jensen located the Alicker and two
subsidiary domes in the one oil permit.
Cameron knows the field very well. Before
he left Queensland he had charge of the
geological side of prospecting at Roma, and
produced the excellent oil bulletin now so
much in demand.
* * * *
Northcote Antimony, which amalgamated
with the Minnie Moxham, near Mareeba
(N.Q.), when the antimony ore failed, has
started to clean out the latter mine and is
winning a little ore from the 130 ft. footwall
level as well as sinking a winze on the
210 ft. main level on a 2ft. 6in. reef. At
present faces are not in high-grade ore, but
there is no reason to think that prospecting
work may not get on to richer stuff, such as
the 2oz. shoots that were worked in earlier
days. Better metal recoveries than in the
past will be necessary to ensure success.
* * * *
No. 4 scout bore at Chapman’s oil permit,
Gunnewin (Q.), has gone through two gas
deposits, one at 305 ft. and the other at 3Goft.
Dr. G. B. Pritchard, of Melbourne, took
samples of the shah; and gas. The next oil
float in which Melbourne is interested will
be the Roma Cornwall Dome, Ltd. A num-
ber of local (Roma) pastoralists are be-
hind it. *
**• * *
Guinea Gold, the only one of the Bulolo-
Edie Creek shows which has arrived at the
production stage, announces that an option
has been granted to W. H. Corbould over
the co.’s leases at Ivaili and Ivoranga, on
the upper Bulolo, and over areas on Edie
Creek adjoining Kaindi leases, where the
much-discussed reef formation is said to
exist. The consideration is 50,000 f.p. £1
shares in the £2,500,000 co. which it is
proposed to form in London to handle the
properties, at least £lOOO,OOO to be avail-
able for working the, holdings. The option,
which covers Guinea Gold’s water rights
on the Bulolo, is to be exercised before the
end of September and the sale completed
within three months after that. Guinea Gold
will retain all gold won from the properties
being worked up to the end of the present
year. The Corbould option has no connec-
tion with that held by Placer Development
over the Guinea Gold North, Central and
South leases on the right bank of the Bulolo
below the Edie Creek junction, One result
of the recent visit of Messrs. Corbould and
McNall to the field is that the whole of
Edie Mountain has been pegged for reefing
leases. Incidentally, disaffection has been
caused at Edie by the Warden’s refusal to
grant any more alluvial mining permits under
section 3Sa of the Ordinances. This section
gave the Warden power, at his discretion,
to grant permits to miners to enter on and
work shovel and box ground found on mining
leases.
# * * *
Guinea Gold’s production for the month of
June totalled 400 oz. Arrangements are being-
made to instal the Sin. piping and giant
nozzle as soon as the latter is to hand, and
the plant should be ready by the end of this
month; it will be supplemented by a Sin.
nozzle. The co.’s subsidiary, Guinea Air-
ways, has proved a great success, especially
since the arrival of the Junker monoplane.
A second has been ordered, and should be
flying in October.
a. * # *
The “Wild Cat” received a radio from Edie
Creek early in the Week stating that the
District Officer at Morobe has issued instruc-
tions under the Native Labor ordinances that
no afternoon shift would be permitted until
further notice, which means that the natives
will be working only half-time but drawing
full pay and rations. The order seriously
affects the whole field, involving as it does
great additional expense. The Administrator,
who was at once approached for his sanction
to resume work, refused to grant the request
of the miners and leaseholders.
* * * *
Recently a Sydney syndicate paid thou-
sands to find out that the lower end of a
creek in New Guinea, estimated to go 10s.
a yard, really had more boulders than colors.
Yet £lO.OOO was actually asked for these
leases after the holders had made themselves
poor by working the properties. In New
Guinea boulders are the curse of dredging
and sluicing wherever watercourses drop
steeply. Floods have cut off masses of the
granite country rock, Which clutter up the
creek beds, sometimes covering gold, but
most times covering just plain bottom.
So far as the Upper Edie is concerned,
very little good alluvial ground is left out-
side the Big Six area. Here the creek runs
flat, forming a perfect catchment, and th 6
larger rocks have become disintegrated into
easily worked wash. This length is rich in
poor gold. Now a frantic assault has been
made on the mountains, which have been
pegged for miles, radiating from the Day
Dawn and Big Six reefs. Most of these
mountain leases won’t yield enough to keep
a busy dentist in gold fillings.
One of the numerous curses of New Guinea
is the ignoramus who poses as geologist,
engineer, explorer—anything that will tit the
occasion. Sometimes he comes south with
a couple of ’weights of borrowed gold in a
bottle and authority to sell somebody’s lease
for £lO,OOO or £20,000. And sometimes, if
he doesn’t get that much, he manages to find
enough soft marks to make his visit well
worth while.
* * * *
“Old Warden” : Placer Development, which
is taking a fatherly interest in the Guinea
Gold leases on the Bulolo, has received an
assurance from the Administration that a
route for the proposed traffic road from
the coast to the goldfield has been selected.
It is added that every effort will be made to
push on with the work, and that it is
hoped to complete it within 12 months. Bet-
ter late than never, though the obvious job
should have been tackled a couple of years
ago, when the value of the field had been
proved beyond doubt. As it is, the road pro-
mises to be little use to the genuine digger,
but will give large-scale enterprises a chance
to build on his bones.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe Co. (W.A.) has decided
to get over its financial difficulties by. issuing
800,000 preferred ordinary ss. shares, which
will be entitled to a cumulative 10 p.c.
Shareholders will be offered 600,000 of these,
two for every one ordinary now held. The
issue has been underwritten by the Transvaal
Agency, Ltd., which in addition to a com-
mission of Is. per share has been given an
option on the remaining 200,000 preferred
ords. at 6s. per share. The present paid
capital is £1,500,000 in 300,000 £5 shares.
* *!■ * *
Adelaide has formed an option co. to look
into the prospects of Enterprise Gold Mines,
alias Boulder No. 1, and Golden Pike leases,
Kalgoorlie. Capital is £30,000 in £1 shares,
and a preliminary issue of 1600, at par, is
being made to coyer cost of “a comprehen-
sive report” on the property. If this report
is satisfactory a further 9600 will be offered
at par to holders of the first lot. Boulder
Perseverance has agreed to bear one-fourth
of the cost of the report and working exes,
during the option period, and has the right
to subscribe one-quarter of the capital neces-
sary to work the property should the option
be exercised. Bulolo co. has also taken
a quarter-interest in the venture. Years ago
Golden Pike was pronounced a dud, and
later Boulder No. 1 was abandoned. Since
then wonting parties have extracted good
erushings from both properties, and pro-
spects are declared to be first-rate. But the
properties appear to be a bit on the small
side for a co.
* * * *
Westralia’s many hundreds of gold de-
posits which are unworked for economic
reasons are interestingly touched upon by
State Mining Engineer Montgomery in a
report to the Development and Migration
Commission. It is rather common for gold
values to be contained in short shoots pitch-
ing strongly away from the main shaft. At
each successive level the gold gets further
and further from the shaft, and the cost,
of dead work swallows up all profit. Great
Fingail and Menzies Consolidated are ex-
amples, and the Sons of Gwalia is also a
sufferer. In other cases the removal of
water by pumping or bailing proves too
costly, while in some instances the difficul-
ties and expense of obtaining fuel and mining
timber prevent profitable working. Many
shows now lying idle because of such and
similar d’sabilities may become payable gold
producers again when the railway is extended
and transport costs reduced.
❖ $ Hi *
Freney-Kimberley Oil Co. (W.A.) is still
boring, and, although no indications of a com-
mercial “pool” have so far resulted, the
work is described ih official reports as very
promising or very important. Meanwhile
the go’s cash resources are gradually dwind-
ling, and some of those in receipt of fees
and salaries are getting apprehensive.
* * * *
Ice is now used in at least one Kalgoorlie
mine to overcome fumes and high tempera-
tures. In winzes the cold condenses the
fumes and forces out the hot air, so that
work may be resumed 40 minutes after
firing; in drives and crosscuts miners re-
turn within 30 minutes. It will reduce costs
in some instances, and help the revival of
mining.
* * * *
“Taiping” (F.M.S.) : Mining is looking up
at Puket Island (Siam). Tongkah Harbor
has three dredges at Chelong Bay; the big
new Dutch boat was moved there, as it
couldn’t get good returns in the harbor. Katu,
Burmah-Malay’s first float, successfully
launched the pontoon at the end of April;
the superstructure is going up rapidly. The
Melbourne controlled Rangeng Tin, adjoining
Tongkah Harbor leases, has made excellent
progress. It put the first changkol in the
ground early in March and the dredge pad-
dock is now complete. The dredge material
is already on the spot; the riveters will be
at work before the end of the month (.Tune)
and the pontoon should be landed before
Christmas. The co., which has 10,000,000
yards of .61b. ground, should have very low
costs. On the mainland, Austral-Malay s
50,000,000-yard .81b. show, Pungali, is
getting ready for the dredge-building cam-
paign next dry season (November, 1J28).
The Pangnga River Tin Concessions (Austral
Malay was one of the vendors, selling its
Klong Rah lease of 13,000,000 yards) lias
wharf, roads and tramline well in hand;
the first dredge material is on the road. This
co. has about 34 million yards (.91b. per
yard) to play with, and recent acquisitions
will push it up to the 40-million mark.
sjs H« * *
Peninsula Tin has announced that
material for the dredge pontoon is being
delivered at the mine and a contract for
erection has been let. The despatch of the
superstructure has been delayed until
August. This will postpone the dates tor
progress payments, with the result that no
calls will be made for July. _ Scout boring
on the property at Bok Cham is said to have
revealed a dredgeable area containing
20,000,000 cubic yards averaging 7oz. t.o.
to the yard. The option has been exercised,
and an adjoining 1200 acres has been taken
UP-
* * * *
Timor Petroleum Co., is to consult share-
holders about its future working policy,
and it is quite likely that they will be asked
to supply more capital.
The Portuguese Government has thrown
open the Portuguese Timor oil area to out-
side prospectors, and the Corryong Gold
Syndicate, in Fred Tricks’s office, Melbourne,
has arranged to send George Bryant to- take
up areas in the island, where he lived 1J
years. Corryong Syndicate is offering for-
feited shares to original holders at Is.


Even a short ride
will convince you
that the
perfected
is "the most valuable car ever
offered for so little money”
Whippet
There is an element of pleased
surprise in driving the WHIP-
PET for the first time that can-
not be fully expressed in words.
There has never been another
light car of its class that has given
the same feeling of fine car thrill.
And now you can buy it at an
unbelievably low price its
quality unchanged, its equip-
ment improved, its performance
proven by more than 200,000
owners in millions of miles of
driving.
Even a short ride in a WHIP-
PET will demonstrate the car’s
remarkable qualities flashing
acceleration, great power on
hills or heavy roads, high speed
instantly and for a long distance,
with a sense of complete safety
inspired by its road-hugging
low-centre of gravity, and its
large, mechanical four-wheel
brakes. It offers easy riding,
convenient handling, easy park-
ing, unusual beauty of line and
colours—and above all—unpre-
cedented economy.
There are six handsome body
styles. Choose one of those now
on display in our showrooms
and let a trial drive convince
you of the superlative quality
and performance of this Over-
land Whippet.
1
\y
m
7L
'T
CJT****^
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED, 148 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY., LIMITED, 117-21 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LIMITED, Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, Franklin Street, ADELAIDE.
ADAMS’ MOTORS, LIMITED, 442 Murray Street, PERTH.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LIMITED, 53-56 Bathurst Street, HOBART.
WILLYS - OVERLAND FINE MOTOR CARS


• ' w , '"ii!! 11 "" , I|||llll' ,, V4*
» ,: V ..O 'it" I- r Jr
~ y/ jf /
* :• |>>" ~11.,,,,," -jtt £7 //
"■'Ml' - , ,■! ,ilimiiui||, ,/
t ;• hr rr-' < w ,w
I ; *> v / , "7 r
|!iiiiiiiliiiilfiiiiiiiiijiiiMlililllillll!!lllllllll!.,!!!!!!!
DiiNiop DUNLOP DUNLOP !
STOCKED BY 5000 GARAGES
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.


Such a reputation is not won overnight
i
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d . ♦ ♦ ♦ 20 for 1/6
Major Draphin <S Co.. London. Branch of The United
Kingdom Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
sd
fs
dfs
ETMffS
AH3IA
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“Pick”: “Eromeno’s” yarn (B. 27/6/’2B)
of the abo. who, after communing with him-
self, could find strayed cattle reminds me
of old Zack, a Wallagan, claimed that
he could bring rain. Once, a ter prolonged
drought in the Cobargo (N.S.W.) district,
Zack offered to bring rain for £3 and the
loan of a saddle-horse. He required the'
horse he said, for journeying to Mount
Mumbla, only from the summit of which
could he work the m’racle. The horse was
lent, and a piomise made of 15 reward if
rain came. Zack red' off and returned at
the end of a week. That night rain set in,
and it poured for a fortnight. Zack, of
course, knew how to read the signs, just
as “Eromeno’s” nigger had evidence of th !
whereabouts of the cattle before he held his
corroboree.
* * * *
“Gregor”: The traces of white settlement
“Peria Dorea” found on the coast of New
Ireland (B. 20/6/’2S) are remnants of ihe
efforts of the Marquis de Ray, mentioned in
previous Bulletin pars., to found a soe al-
istic republic in that desolate place. Two
shiploads of colonists were despatched from
Marseilles, most of them being French and
Italians, with a sprinkling of Spaniards.
But no equipment or material or even tools
were sent with the colonists; and large quan-
tities of stores were accidentally left behind
at Marseilles.
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: A Binghi I used a lot
for odd jobs in the nor’-west of Groperland
had a unique method of catching saltwater
soles. He’d stand a little over waist deep
and patiently wait. When a shark, flatlicad
or stingaree came cruising round to see
what was on the menu, any brown soles in
the vicinity sought safety from the marau-
ders by half burying themselves under the
nearest object, which generally happened to
be my abo.’s arched foot. One day I saw
him snare over two dozen.
BROAD-MINDED SHE WAS.
"Excuse me, I am the new vic-ar. Are you-er an adherent of my church?”
"Sometimes I go to the Carthlicks and sometimes I drop in to the Wessaleyans. I’m
no bigamist, I ain’t.”
“Tiki” : An old superstition or art or what-
ever you care to call it has raised its hea;l
in Auckland province, Maoriland. A gold
diviner has arisen and is wandering all over
th ' Coromandel Peninsula. He is William
Platt, an elderly gentleman who uses a plum-
tree twig. Up to date he hasn’t found any
MAN OF HIS WORD.
BLACK: “Now what about that tenner? When I lent it to you, you know, you promised
me you wouldn’t keep it long.”
B ROWN: “Well, I didn’t. It was gone within half an hour.”
gold, but lie’s a wizard with coal according to
li's backers. He has an old sugar-bag filled
with black diamonds, and invites sceptics to
hide it anywhere they like. And, so the
local legends runs, he ferrets out that bag of
coal with the aid of his plum-twig as easily
as a terrier sniffs a rat, no matter how cun-
ningly it may have been concealed. He was
at work, at time of writing, on a location
abandoned 40 years ago, and though his divi-
nations were against all mining lore he had
“found” a part of the lost quartz reef. What it
assayed isn’t vouchsafed by his entourage, but
they're still sinking shafts and cutting tra-
vers s. In a very old metallurgical work,
“He Re Mctallica,” dated 1556, there is a
mention of gold divining, but there’s no re-
cord of a diviner finding a good streak of the
yellow stuff. Perhaps they don’t let on.
* * * *
“S lentio”: Do birds draw a color line?
Recently I brought a creamy pony into a
paddock near the house, where in a tree are
several families of peewees or mudlarks;
and from its arrival to the time I removed
it the birds never gave the pony any peace.
All day long they clattered round it, flying
in its face and pecking at it. The other
poni s were not molested. When the creamy
was removed peace reigned once more.
* * ■* *
“Yarri”: Yabbrring Billy was an extra-
talkative person. When excited or in an
argument his loquacity was terrific and end-
less. When he had nobody to talk to, or
talk at, he talked to himself. One morning
the cook at Wooroowoolgen, Richmond
River, heard him laughing like a kookaburra,
and on going out found him sitting alone be-
hind the woodlieap where he had just finished
his breakfast. “What’s the joke?” he asked.
“By cripes,” said Billy, “me been hear um
very funny yarn.” “Who tell it that one?”
asked the cook, looking around. Billy
chuckl 'd happily. “Mine been tell it myself,”
he said.
* * * *
“E.S.”: A frequent caller at our bush
school was Slim Jim, a lanky timber-getter.
He would enter in the middle of dictation, or
reading, with a request for Mr. Phegan to
reckon up how many feet there were in a
number of logs, the measurements of which
were sometimes jotted down on a scrap of
pap r and sometimes on a piece of gum-bark.
He measured the logs with the handle of his
bullock whip, but brought the whip with him
so that Phegan could check the score for
himself. The handle was his yard-stick, and
the plaited greenhide whip his tape measure,
One day he came with a new set of figures,
an example of which read: “Girth,
snakes ; length, 5 snakes.” “What s a snake
in mathematics V” asked Phegan, impatiently,
To his astonishment Jim drew from his
pocket a coiled green snake, and stretched it
out on the desk to be measured. “I lost my
whip somewhere in the long grass,” he ex-
plained, “an’ while I was lookin’ about I
found this feller. So I killed it an’ tied it to
the handle for a.whip.” “Mm!” said Phegan,
glancing at the grinning faces of his pupils,
Then, after measuring the snake, he wrote
Slim Jim’s figures on the blackboard for the
class to work out. _ “Find how many snakes
there are in a log,” he said, “then multiply
the result by five and you’ll have feet.” After
that Jim’s log figures were known as snake
sums,
* *
“Gwy” : Those green glass spheres which
puzzled “C. Coral’s” friends (B. 20/6/’2B)
are not only to be found on shark-nets ; they
have been used for years by the Sydney
trawling fleet, following experienced practice
elsewhere. They act as lifting floats to keep
open the mouth of the trawl as it sweeps
along the sea bottom ; consequently they are
sometimes 60 or 70 fathoms down. Glass
stands the pressure better than cork or even
hollow metal spheres. The glass balls cost
about 4d. each. Trawling off the N. S.
Wales coast is infernally rough on the nets.
This explains why snapper, not an esteemed
fish in Maoriland, are so dear. Snapper,
though plentiful off this coast, frequent a
rocky bottom, ruinous to the net.; hence only
an odd few are scooped in among the assort-
ment of flathcad, gurnard, leather-jacket,
marwong and John Dory, commonly caught.
* * * *
.. .
Breed: Ihe semi-civilised Binghi when
horse-tailmg with a mob of travelling cattle
watching if there are abo. camps
about - In die mornings there are almost
"V’bJS “s Tt pI 2ISX a JSv £
spendwho i o day “tooling"
for them. lie’ll arrive at the next camp
just before sundown and tell a tale of woe.
Once on the Marree track in S.A. I became
suspiivous of Daylight, a N.T. boy. Bad
judgrrrent was his undoing; he picked the
wr ong horses as likely to stray. By fol-
lowing Daylight I solved the problem of the
two strays. He’d tied them up at a near-by
camp whilst he courted a gin.
{ Continued on page 25.)
PARK Eli HELLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Come, set us the course to Parker Hills anrl
hurry us off once more
Ere the winds of woe from the north-east
blow red squalls of sand from the
ridges low,
,Vith a fire-tongued voice that blasts and
shrills on the salt lake’s lonely shore!
The grey-green leaves of the gimlet-gum
and the sandalwood’s incense
Call yet to us through the haze of time spun
over the tracks of golden prime
So rich with promise and hope a-chime and
the fire of zeal intense.
We swamped it out with a six-horse team
linked up in a tandem file,
A venturesome crew with a purpose true
we followed the vanguard’s blaze-
marks new
That bled the boles of the gums a-gleam,
wheels cutting a track the while.
Life’s morning strummed on our heart-
strings then and the wine of youth
was fire.
Spring magic throbbed in our veins as we
moved on like the pulse of revelry,
Our eyes on the hills of destiny, our
souls agog with desire.
’Neath bough-sheds woven with camel-brush
our calico tents were pegged.
Red rum came through and a potent brew.
We lived on damper and tinned-dog
stew
And once a week we followed the rush when
the gladness was unkegged.
We washed our clothes in the sparkling
brine pumped up from a water shaft
That served the boilers and batt’ry plates.
We paid no rent and we paid no rates,
And Sunday was loud with fierce debates
and week days noisy with graft.
Our table, fashioned from saplings thin,
was fixed in the bramble shade.
Our seat was a frail, bent bull-oak rail
on two forked limbs ; on a rusty nail
Our pannikins hung: in a benzine-tin our
night-light flickered and played.
We sliced tinned meat with our pocket-
knives and our forks were two-pronged
sticks.
We baked our sods in the ashes hot, or
cooked a duff in the dolly pot.
While under the coals of the warmest
spot we heated our gads and picks.
But Parker Hills is a memory of a season
long since fled.
Though our feet are set in the fume and
fret of industry, we’ll never forget
The wealth we won and the revelry of a
spring long spent and dead ;
The incense sprung from the sandalwood
and the north-east blast that shrills
Across the sands of Lefroy’s lone shore; and
the gold we failed to hold in store —
Ah, set us the course, kind fate, t nee
more to the spring-fired Parker Ilihs!
N.S.W.
GERARIDY.


t
4&:
*W
5*
SH
U.
A*
m
*0
/#
k
rs.
High Speed
for Heavy Loads
Heavy loads may now travel at high
speeds with perfect safety on the new 6-
cylinder 2-Ton Graham Brothers Truck.
Business demands that goods move
faster. And this new triumph of truck
building with 4-speed transmission
and 4-wheel brakes (Lockheed Hydrau-
lic) —makes it possible to move goods
faster without risk and without sacrifice
of economy.
Harden & Johnston, Limited, Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne •
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane — Townsville .
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
Graham Brothers
Trucks and Buses
BUILT BY TRUCK DIVISION OF DODGE BROTHERS, INC.
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS DEALERS EVERYWHERE.


MAN NEWS
»AW< J $
The
“WILD WEST’
A Qreat Big Wide Leaf Hat
to Wear between Sunrise
and Sunset.
Pure Fur Felt; leaf
314 ins. wide will
not sag; High Crown,
will stand all weathers.
30/-
Mail to Desk “5.8.” State Size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LTD.
In 2ueen Street, Brisbane.
1
r:*v
v.l’». •
k 3
- "N
M §s& v,..-
y
>'N3E
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
UNRIVALLED Accommo-
dation at this Modern
Hotel. Rebuilt at an expendi-
ture of £lOO,OOO.
BYERS’
HOTEL WINDSOR
Three minutes from Circular
Quay and Central Railway
Station, in the heart of Theatre-
land.
MODERATE TARIFF.
Hot & Cold Water in Every Room.
Tel.: City 6907, MA 1874,
Corner Castlereagh and Park
Streets, Sydney.
Telephone reservations made.
“Nuces”: What a strange mixture of
commonsense and stupidity is a horse’s
mind'! I saw one with his foreleg over the
bottom barbed-wire of a fence. Knowing
that to attempt to get free would hurt him,
he remained in that position quietly for 20
minutes till he was released. A few days
later I noticed that the same horse had put
his head between the trunks of two trees
THANKS FOR SMALL MERCIES.
THE WEAKER SEX: “Yer great big brute, torkin’ back at a nindefensible woman Why,
if me ’usband was ’ere ’e’d loose the dorg on yer.”
so crossed above him that he could not get
his shoulders through. Twenty hours’ later
I passed that way again and he was still
between the trees, having rubbed his
shoulders sore trying to force his way
through. I had to push him out. Another,
tied to the straining-post of a wire fence,
rubbed his nose on the wire, and the end of
a strand about an inch long pierced the top
of one nostril just above the ring of cartilage.
He immediately strained back and so tight-
ened the wire in his nostril. Had he
taken one step forward he could have freed
himself, yet he strained back for 10 minutes.
The same horse was decidedly cunning in
other ways, particularly in devising new
methods of dumping his rider.
❖ ❖ * ❖
“Tangata”: The lighthouse-keeper at
Pouto, Kaipara Heads (M.L.), lias two dogs
of nondescript breed that have been trained
to retrieve ambergris. Odd bits of the
precious stuff are frequently washed up on
that wild, desolate coast. The dogs locate
it by the smell and will even dig it up out
of the sand.
* * *
“Mullarula”: I have been reading in a
book published in America that the Aus-
tralian aborigines have a very handy weapon
called the boomerang, which after slaying
bird or beast will return to the hand of the
thrower. We cannot blame writers in other
countries for harboring this delusion about
the boomerang, for the same belief is held by
many Australians. It is obvious that if a
boomerang hit a kangaroo in the midriff it
would have to stop. As a matter of fact the
type of boomerang which is thrown at big-
game like kangaroos will not come back even
if it misses its mark. The weapon that re-
turns to the thrower is differently con-
structed, having its edges slightly twisted
at the ends, so that the action of the air will
cause it to describe a circle. The returning
boomerang is sometimes used for throwing
among flocks of ducks or pigeons on the
wing, but generally speaking it -is regarded
by Binghi purely as a toy.
$ * * $
“Boronia”: “Pick” (B. 13/6/’28) advan-
ces the theory that termites attack timber
only through earth pasages. But near the
Bunbury estuary (W.A.) there is an old
disused bridge the jarrah piles of which are
infested with white ants. As the piles stand
in seven feet of salt water, either “Pick” is
wrong or the insects carry on operations
from a very far-distant base.
:J: ❖ ❖ *
“G.B.L.”: Footwear made of kangaroo-
skin leather was in vogue long before 1871
(B. 13/6/’28). Surgeon P. iCunningham,
Ii.N., says in his book, “New South Wales
iff 1826-27,” that “leather is made by a
great variety of individuals, but in greatest
quantity and perfection by Mr. Wilshire, of
Sydney, kangaroo-skins serving the purposes
of English calf.” Hats were also made by
two Sydney men of that time from “the fur
of the flying squirrel”—presumably the
’possum.
“Gouger” : “Morob’s” detachable Markham
River arrows (B. 2/5/’2B) have their coun-
terpart in the Torres Strait kamooso —.
an arrow with a barbed but detachable head,
fitted into a hollow socket in the haft, which
falls away on shock of contact. But for
fiendish ingenuity the doad took the bun.
JUST PLAIN BLANK.
“What’s your father’s name, dear?”
“Daddy.”
“No. I mean his other name—what does your mummy call him?”
“Oh, she don’t call him names. She likes him.”
Five inches down from the point were two
broad flanges of bamboo; underneath them,
pressed against the hardwood of the arrow
head proper, were compressed springs, also
of bamboo. Immediately the arrow head
pierced the body, the flanges were pushed off
and the springs were loosened, flying out
with a twisting motion that cut a lOin.
swathe inside the victim’s body. The doad
was fitted to a bamboo haft on a loose screw
thread and fired as a bolt from a very strong
bow. Crossing the centre of the. bow was
a bamboo tube; the haft was thrust through
this and the doad was then fitted on. At the
butt end of the haft were two knobs which
would not allow the haft to pass through
the tube. When the bow-string was re-
leased the doad shot forth, revolving rapidly.
* * * *
“Tarwoona”: Re “Wang’s” par. (B.
13/6/’2B) concerning the origin of “No good
to Gundy.” It comes from an Irish legend.
Gundy Doherty was a mythical person whose
extreme shrewdness always saved him from
being taken in. He posed as a simple-
minded man and turned down unwelcome
propositions with, “That ’ud be no good at
all to a poor man like Gundy.” As for
“Gone to the pack,” it’s an English hunting
phrase. Broken down hunt-horses were sold
to the knackers, and the knackers victualled
the hounds.
* ' $ $
“P.8.H.”: A white cockatoo owned by
a friend was given a new drinking vessel, an.
empty salmon-tin, and was immensely pleased
with it. That night the bird was found
with the tin on his head. Ever since, for
14 years, Cocky has gone to bed regularly
every night with the empty tin on his head.
If he cannot find it at night he screeches
the household deaf till it is given to him.
* * * #
“Sea Nomad”: That cockroach-bitten
Papuan of “Orokolo’s” (B. 6/6/’2B) is no
rarity in the shelling boats. After a long
cruise they become overrun with ’roaches of
a size that is only matched by their ferocity.
I shall never forget the disgust of a Jap diver
who woke up one morning with bald patches
making piebald his nice black hair. The
’roaches can chew hair to the roots without
waking a heavy sleeper. I’ve only met one
man who blessed cockroaches. His feet were
covered with corns. He woke up one morn-
ing to find the corns chipped neatly off; the
cleverest doctor couldn’t have made a better
job of it. Why the ’roaches never chewed
right into the beef I don’t know. Each year
the shelling boats have to be fumigated
against the pests.
* * * *
“AdeL.”: Concerning fierce mosquitoes, I
give the palm to those infesting the upper
reaches of the Gulf of Carpentaria and parts
of Arnhem’s Land. So numerous, large
and fierce are they during and for a little
after the wet season that the usual cheese-
cloth nets afford no protection to night
campers, being burst by the sheer weight
of the pests. Only under stout canvas,
rigged like an ordinary net and well tucked
under the ground-sheet, can the sleeper feel
comparatively safe. The natives at that
period desert the scrubby low lands for the
ranges or some of the barren islets fringing
the shore, which are swept nightly by
strong north-easterlies, keeping the insects
in the shelter of the mangroves.
* * * *
“Tahune”: Tell “E.V.S.” (B. 20/6/’2B)
that the silver bream, Chrysophrys aus-
tralis, is another instance in which there is
no division of sexes. The reproductive
organs are both male and female.
* * * >:=
“Up North”: One of the more refined
accomplishments of the old-time Torres
Strait Islanders was wig-making. The arti-
ficial thatches were so artistic that a bald
head need feel no fear of detection. Baldness
was uncommon, but some of the bucks shaved
their heads merely for the sake of wearing
a beautiful false cover. The hair was
usually worn falling down over the shoulders
in jet-black ringlets. Beards, which couldn’t
bn so easily imitated, were profuse and
long, divided into three ringlets decorated
with sharks’ and alligators’ teeth. If these
teeth were worn in a certain way it denoted
that the wearer was thirsting for blood;
his degree of bloodthirstiness being nicely
indicated by the angle at which the teeth
were worn. For ceremonial dances the
hair was interplaited with tortoise-shell
bands that clasped bird-of-paradise plumes.
Almost every male native wore a moustache
and was proud when the ends were long
enough to tie around the back of the head.
Some of them —who knows why?—at times
trimmed beard and moustache in the old-time
Spanish fashion.
AFTER THE ARGUMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We ’ad a talk about it, Jim an’ me,
We sat an’ argued nearly ’alf the night,
An’ then ’e couldn’t or ’e wouldn’t see
That ’e was wrong, an’ own up I was right.
Old Jim’s like that—a real good cobber, but
’E often ambles on me nerves a bit.
When ’e gits anything into ’is nut
A man’s got Buckley’s ’ope of shiftin’ it
Now me, I ain’t like that. I always say,
“Now you convince me an’ I’m with you,
see—
You show me that yours is the proper way,
That’s all I want; that’s good enough for
me.
But mind,” I say, “you’ve got to give me
facts;
Not what you think, or what somebody
said.” .
But cripes, that ain’t the way old Jimmy acts
When ’e gits anything into ’is ’ead.
I like the man that’s got an open mind,
You can do something with that kind of
bloke;
Bi»t with a man like old Jim ’ere you’ll find
It’s waste of time you puttin’ in your
spoke.
A bloke like ’im don’t want a man to show
’Im 'ow it is Vs sure to come a thud.
An’ ’e don’t thank you when you let ’im
know
The things ’e’s shook on are well up to
mud.
That’s all that’s wrong with Jim —a bonzer
mate,
As good a bloke as you could wish to meet,
But too snake-’eaded, an’, a thing I ’ate,
’E won’t admit it when you’ve got ’im
beat.
I’ve noticed too, sometimes, by some remark
’E’ll make when we are at it ’ot an’ strong,
’E seems to think a man’s a blanky nark
Because ’e shows ’im where it is ’e’s wrong.
That’s all the thanks a feller gits who gives
A timely warnin’, as the papers say;
An’ from now on, as long as old Jim lives,
I’m sayin nothin’ —’e can go is way.
There’s nobody can say I ’aven’t tried
To do me best; now ’e can sink or swim.
After last night I’m damn-well satisfied
Advice is wasted on a bloke like Jim.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service o f Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable tha t questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
Wants.
By young man (23), position as book-
keeper on station. Could act as tutor in
usual school subjects. (To C. Dennison, 191
Campbell-street, Rockhampton, Queensland.)
By capable manageress, care of flats, city,
suburbs or country, N.S.W., in return for
unfurnished flat.—5434.
By young man (20), job on farm or cattle-
station, anywhere, fair rider, used to cattle
and horses. Good refs. —5433.
By Tas. girl (20), position on station,
companion or governess.—5503.
By young man (23), three years ag. col.,
engineer by trade, job on wheat or wheat and
wool farm, western N.S.W. —5497.
To buy Christmas Number of Aussie for
1921. (To O. W. Vjfadham, Denton’s Private
Bag, Gisborne, N.Z.)
By mechanical engineer, expert bush saw-
miller, job, any capacity, anywhere. Ex.
refs.—5467.
By elderly woman who, having lived in
the bush for 30 years, wishes job as care-
taker of seaside or mountain bungalow in
N.S.W., Vic. or S.A. —5468.
By professional man, Central Q., not fully
employed, agency, salary and commission.
(To M. White, G.P.O., Rockhampton, Q.)
By returned soldier, fencing or clearing
work, anywhere. Q’land or northern N.S.W.
Knowledge windmills and pumps, sober and
industrious. Own car. (To Jack Brown,
Saltern Siding, Q’land Cent. Railway, Q.)
Person to stock with sheep Rapa Island,
1700 miles from M.L., containing 10,000
acres clean grass. Will carry three sheep
to acre. (To J. Paul, care Wairarapa Trad-
ing Co., Featherston, N.Z.)
To buy old boys’ books and periodicals,
good prices for clean copies. (To W. Back-
house, 27 Cedric-street, Hobart, Tas.)
To sell young citrus orchard, 40 acres,
with heavy crop ready, 1500 trees, new
bungalow, Windsor dist. (N.S.W.), £2600.
Deposit £800.—5507.
By Burnie (Tas.) house, agencies. Good
storage available. (To P.O. Box 52, Burnie.)
Whereabouts of Mrs. Arthur Malcolm
(Euphemia Dent), formerly of Bundaberg,
Q.—5508.
Words of verse beginning, “From little
towns in a far land they came.” (To J. R.
MacDonald. 24 Tennyson-street, Brighton, V.)
To buy “The Battle of Jutland,” by Lord
Jellicoe. —5420.
To buy “Sheep and Cattle Dogs,” by
Ivoieski. Good price given.—5421
To exchange vest-pocket Kodak with por-
trait attachment and enlarger for a pair
field-glasses or binoculars. —5438.
.Words of verse by Harrison Owen, begin-
ning, “I, on Election Day, will take my
stand, like any free man.”—5441.
To sell, in Melbourne, Stanley steam car,
7-seater, 5 wire wheels, balloon tyres, bump-
ers, mechanical air pump, in first-class order,
insured, registered and inspected, £525.—
5444.
Student would like to hear from anyone
interested in psychology 0 f Ulrichs, Carpen-
ter. etc. —5425.
To buy “Lectures on Physics,” by Ken-
Grant; “Travels with a Donkey,” by Ii. L.
Stevenson; and “Macbeth” (Oxford or Cam-
bridge edition). —5463.
To buy milk-cart, with low footboard at
back for driver to stand on.—5248.
To sell or exchange about 70 mineral speci-
mens and a Sandow exerciser.-—5481.
To sell racquet, Ayres’s, never used. Cost
£5 5s. £3 3s.—5462.
To communicate with political students
interested in formation of an association to
advocate the abolition of State Parliaments.
(To A. Kingston, 16 James-street, Waver-
ley, Sydney.)
Correspondents in all States, Maoriland
and Pacific Islands, exchange literature,
etc. (To C. Griffiths, private mailbag, White-
mark, Flinders Island, Tasmania.)
Information Sought.
(1) When was Vauelusc House ( Sydney)
built? (2) Would it have been possible for
W. C. Wentworth , G. Blaxland. Lieut.
Lawson, Evans (the discoverer of Bathurst
plains), Lieut. Cox (who built the first
mountain road) and Governor Macquarie to
have met socially on the evening of Feb-
ruary 9, 1815, in Sydney? —5287.
(1) Wentworth bought the property in
1827 and in 1829 made extensive additions
to a cottage there, formerly occupied by
Col. O’Connell and C-apt. Piper. Earlier
still the cottage was occupied by Sir H. B.
Hayes, who built it by adding to a small
hut. (2) Historical records don’t rule
out the possibility. Evans at the time
lived in Plobart, and Macquarie was not
very fond of Blaxland, but for purposes of
fiction the episode wouldn’t be historically
absurd.
On the conversion of a N.S.W. Crown
Lease to Conditional Purchase and Condi-
tional Lease, may I select the location of the
area, or can the Crown compel me to accept
the location they choose? —2372.
You may apply for any area you desire,
and after considering the report of the dis-
trict surveyor the local land board will de-
cide. If they decide to offer you another
area, not suitable to you, you may with-
draw your application.
Are there any correspondence schools in
Sydney teaching wireless? Can this method
of teaching be easily grasped and studied dur- '
ing one’s spare time? — 5377.
The Marconi School of Wireless, 97
Clarence-street, provides a correspondence
course occupying 12 months, at the end of
which time the student must attend the
school personally for a further period of two
months for practical instruction. The cor-
respondence course is easy to follow.
In each of the frogs of my horse’s hoofs
there is a small puncture, which, when the
frog is gently pressed, exudes a milhy fluid.
The horse is not lame. Is it likely to develop
into anything serious? —5357. .
It occurs in certain cases, but is not re-
garded as a disease. Be careful when trim-
ming round the frog to remove only ragged
edges. The frog should be allowed to touch
the ground. It’s there to deaden concussion.
(1) Is the Wyalong ( N.S.W.) district
good wheat-growing country? (2) What is
the price of good wheat Land there, cleared
ready for plough? (3) Average yields? 14)
Rainfall, summer and winter? (5) Any
other information available.— 4980.
(1) Yes, though some of it is on the dry
side. (2) About £6 to £7 per acre. (3)
Twelve bushels an acre, but the land cou.d
do better if best methods of farming were
applied. (4) Summer, 8.9iu.; winter 8.95.n.
(5) Leaflet posted. It is important that
settlers in this or similar country should be
able to weather one or even two very bad
years at the start.
(1) Is grapefruit profitable to grow?
(2) Which is the most profitable mandarin-
orange on the market, and the best variety
to grow? (3) Is the Sillcta orange a profit-
able variety? If not, what is? (4) Which
is the best variety of lemon? (5) Can you
recommend a good book on citrus growing? —
5053.
(1) Yes, under favorable conditions. (21
Emperor, in districts suited to it. (3)
Washington navel and Valencia late are
more favored now. (4) Sweetrind. (5)
“Citrus Fruit and their Culture,” by H. H.
Hume, and “Citrus Culture,” by J. E. Coit.
Leaflet posted.
How can I fill a fusible safety-plug for a
steam boiler carrying 200 lb. to the sq. in.? —
5277.
The plug should be thoroughly cleaned and
heated so that it can be tinned in the ordi-
nary way, using one of the usual soldering
fluxes. While the tinning is in a molten
state fill the plug with pure tin. When
the job has cooled off it should be caulked
by gently tapping with the ball-end of an
ordinary engineer’s hammer. Fusible plugs
should be removed and refilled at least once
a year.
(1) What companies or individuals are
mining on the old Etheridge goldfield (N.Q.)
and is any gold now being won there? (2)
Are the Etheridge railways still operating,
or has the old. line been converted to a road
for motor transport ? —5167.
(1) No registered companies are now
working. On the Oaks section small parties
of miners are working reefs, mostly with
poor results. (2) A weekly rail-motor ser-
vice between Alroaden and Forsayth serves
the field.
(1) Are elastic stockings of any use for
the support and cure of varicose veins? (2)
What is the cause of varicose veins? (3)
If they are removed by operation is there any
possibility of more veins appearing? (4)
Do they affect the heart? (5) What is the
most approved method of treating them?
(6) Is bathing in ginger vapor beneficial?
(7) What is the best cure for constipation?
(8) Is wholemeal bread beneficial in cases
of constipation? —5340.
(1) For support, but not for cure. (2)
Two classes, congenital and occupational.
Continual standing is a frequent cause. (3)
A complete cure can be effected in many
cases by a correct operation. (4) No. (5)
Operation and injection. (6) Most unlikely.
(7) Best cure is a diet containing plenty of
fruit and vegetables. Aperients should be
used only when absolutely necessary. (8)
Very doubtful.
Why are not log houses built in Australia
as they are in Am rica? —5370.
In the early days many were built. Now-
adays, as in America, there is no necessity
for such primitive building methods.
How should a cow-, bull- or bullock-
hide be cured to convert it into genuine white
leather as used by saddl rs?. —5195.
Soak for 48 hours in clean cold water.
For fleshing and unhairing, make up Mb.
unslaked lime and Jib. salt to each gallon
of water required to completely immerse the
hide, and soak for 24 hours, when most of
the hair and flesh can be scraped off. Make
up a second soak, using lime only. Then the
hide can be scraped free of every particle
of hair and flesh. A further soaking in
clean cold water will then be necessary. For
a first curing soak, use 4oz. alum to each
gallon of water, and for the second, 6oz.
About two days in each will be sufficient,
Before the hide is taken out, cut it and see
if there still remains a streak of color inside.
The curing must go on until the hide is
white right through. Allow the hide to
partially dry in a dark place awav from
the wind, and then rub in as much fat. tal-
low, or melted paraffin wax as it will hold.
Is there any way of keeping a brass
fender and its accessories clean without hav-
ing to frequently use a cleaning preparation?
—5969.
Clean in the usual way and polish with a
silk rag. Then paint with white shellac and
methylated spirits mixed to a thin paste.
What is the capacity of an excavated
tank 120 ft. long. 90 ft. wide and 9ft. deep
with a 3-fn-l batter on all sides? —5395.
If the slone inwards 3ft. on each sidf,
3394 cub. yds. If they slope in 27ft., 1988
cub. yds. 4 cub. ft.
What qualifications are necessary to
secure a position as a Weights and Measures
inspector in Q’land? —:521)9.
Must be a British subject, of good char-
acter, with a thorough knowledge of the prin-
ciples upon which weighing and measuring
instruments are constructed, and of the tests
by which the correctness of these is decided.
The Chief Inspector may require him to pass
an examination.
(1) If a child (N.S.W.) is legally
adopted, is it in any way under the control
of its natural father? (2) Can its rightful
surname be discarded? —5273.
(1) An order of adoption terminates all
rights and liabilities as between the child
and its natural parents, except the right to
inherit property by reason of kinship. (2)
Yes.
f.l) How many ’planes started in the
Dole (Oakland to Honolulu) race last year;
how many got away, and how many reached
their destination? (2) Flying time of the
successful ’planes? (3) What were the
names of victims of the flight? —s272.
(1) Eight started, but only four got
away successfully. Two, the monoplane
Woolaroc (Art Goebel and W. V. Davis)
and monoplane Aloha (Martin Jensen and
Paul Schluter), reached Honolulu. (2)
Woolaroc, 2Ghr. 17min. 33sec.; Aloha, 28hr.
lOmin. 20sec. (3) Frost and Scott, in the
Golden Eagle, and Pedler, Ivnope and Miss
Doran, in the Miss Doran, who were con-
testants, were lost at sea. Erwin and Eich-
waldi, in the L'alias Spifit, set out to search
for them and wore also lost. Covell, Wag-
goner and Rogers were killed during test
flights prior to the start of the race.
How can I clear my land of blackberries
by the arsenic and caustic-soda method?—
Spray the roots with lib. of arsenic boiled
with lib. caustic soda and then diluted
with about sgals. of water. If the infested
area is small, and it is practicable to apply
the solution to each root with a brush, it
is advisable to do so, as the arsenic will
not thus affect the soil. If not, spray
lightly and the soil will not be affected to
any great extent. A fall of rain will wash
the solution into the soil. Application of
the spray with a powerful spray pump
would destroy all other vegetation for the
time being. Remove stock from the land, as
the preparation is highly poisonous.
I am sole executor of my father’s will..
Must I .sell the property within 12 months
and divide same? If sold now it would not
realise the valuator’s price. —5264.
If you can _ show that immediate sale
would be injurious to the interests of bene-
ficiaries, you need not sell, but you must
render an account to the Registrar of Pro-
bate within 12 months and satisfy him.
An ex-pupil of a school has received a bill
for tuition. She ceased to be a pupil before
her marriage. She has no private means,
and her husband refuses to pay. Can she
be sued, and if judgment teas given against
her , how could she be made to pay? Would
she be liable for costs of court or other
expenses P—5242.
If she has no property the plaintiff can’t
recover debt or costs. Her husband has no
liability.
(1) What is summer in Fiji like? (2)
How do living, clothing and housing expenses
compare with Australia? (3) What chances
of employment or business are there in Fiji 9
—5253.
(1) Owing to the high degree of humidity
it is very trying to Europeans, though the
temperature is not very high. (2) Higher
than in Sydney, and wages and salaries,
speaking generally, are lower. (3) Very
few for the chance-comer. Appointments
to worth-while positions are made in Syd-
ney, and independent business success neces-
sitates experience of local conditions.
When will the Darwin-Adelaide railway
line be completed? —sl99.
No such line has yet been authorised. The
extension of the Port Augusta-Oodnadatta
railway to Alice Springs, 292 miles, is now
proceiding, and is due for completion in
.Tune, 1929. On.the northern section of rail-
way the Darwin-Katherine River line is
being extended 160 miles to Daly Waters.
The date of completion is uncertain.
How can 1 obtain the name and address
of the medical officer in charge of Field
Ambulance Corps at Beaumont or Beaucourt
(France) on 22 nd March, 1918 ? —5392.
There are many Beaumonts and Beau-
courts in France. Send all the information
at your disposal to Australian War Mem-
orial, P.O. Box 214 and, Melbourne, and they’ll
do their best to locate the officer.
What are the varieties of wild pigeons
■found in the Australian bush? —s492.
About 25 species, belonging to three
familjes. The white-headed or “baldy” and
the pheasant-tailed or brown are of the
Columbida!. The green-winged, wonga,
bronze-wing, brush bronze-wing, harlequin
or flock, crested bronze-wing and various
kinds of partridge pigeons, plumed pigeons,
rock pigeons and doves comprise the Tur-
turidai. The third family, Treronidte, or
fruit pigeons, includes the nutmeg and top-
knot varieties. For further details see
article in “Australian Encyclopaedia.”
Do wireless waves travel as fast as light
and if not what is their speed as compared
wi 'h light ? —4510.
The speed of both waves is identical-
-186 000 miles or 300,000,000 metres a
second.
(1) What qualifications arc necessary to
secure a certificate under Q’land Electrical
Workers’ Act? ( 2) What persons are elig-
ible? (3) 1 Would a certificate qualify one
as a tradesman? —sl37.
(1) Practical experience. The Electrical
Workers’ Board, Treasury B’ld’gs, Brisbane,
will supply details if you apply. (2) Any
with the necessary experience and skill (3)
Yes.
(1) How long have petrol-using motor
vehicles been running on the Victorian rail-
ways? (2) Are they a paying proposition?
(3) What types of cars and horse-power
are used? (4) What system of braking 9
(5) What type of wheels? —5315.
(1) Since June, 1922. (2) The net profit,
for the period of 10 months ended April
last was £2400. (3) 19 A.E.C. 4-cyl. 45-
h.p. 5-ton lorries, adapted for rail use, and
a double-ended type having four Levland
6 cylinder engines, developing 100 h.p. Quite
recently two petrol-electric cars with Winton
220-h.p. 6-cylinder engines have been intro-
duced. (4) A.E.C.’s, 4-wheel brakes, foot and
hand. Leyland and Winton vehicles, air
brakes. (5) Specially designed rubber-
cushioned wheels.
Information Supplied.
5237.—T0 braze a 2in. bandsaw, using
tongs, the jaws of the tongs must be 3in.
x lin. x fin., clean, and a good fit. Trim
ends of saw square, allowing about 4in. lap.
File both ends to a perfect bevel fit." Brush
surfaces with pure hydrochloric acid and fix
saw properly in brazing-clamp. Take 2in.
of Atkins silver-solder (iin. x .003) and
clean with acid. Slip it between laps and
dust with powdered borax. Heat tongs in
a clean fire to just on white heat, scrape the
scale oft the jaws and take a firm hold
directly over the joint. Hold tightly and
steadily until the tongs’ color fades to blue.
Let go cautiously, loosen one hold-down of
the clamp to allow for contraction, and fan
vigorously to hasten cooling and restore
temper. The saw will need hammering on
both sides with a dog-head hammer. File
the joint true to gauge.—“Sawdoc.”
Does Anybody Know?
How to make a fire in the bush without
matches ?—5510.
A recipe for mango chutney.—s4s6.
Sydney or Melbourne agents or any firm
carrying stocks of Clifton Marine engines?
—5431.
Brief Answers.
C.J.S.: We have searched the buildings
indicated and cannot find it. .. .H.McD.: It you
placed the matter unconditionally in the hands of
your solicitor to recover the debt and he did so, you
have no grounds of complaint on that score. His
failure to inform you of the steps he was taking
and the delay in dealing with the case seem*to
indicate office slackness, but do not provide ground
for a charge of unprofessional conduct E.W.D.:
If you wish to absolutely secure your tenure, you
should have a properly drawn up and stamped lease,
but most lessees would prefer the friendly arrange-
ment ... .J.M.G.: If, as you say, the place belongs
to you, your wife’s executors have nothing to do
with it... .H.A.,W.: It’s no use selling just because
you can make a profit unless you can see something
better to put your money into... .E.H.8.: If you
have no dependants, you couldn’t do better. But
be careful what office you pick... .A.Z.: (1) Not
on the market, nor” can we hear of a sale. (2)
It is not an investment; it is a gamble... .T. 8.:
See reply to 5195 M.E.H.: (1) One. (2) June,
3920. (3) Pronounced as spelt. .. .N.W.: A boy in
Victoria can obtain tuition in woolelassing at the
Working Men’s College, Melbourne, or Gordon
College, Geelong. .. .J.D.: Mail coach leaves Went-
worth for Menindie Mondays and Thursdays at 10.30
a.m. To catch the Monday coach you must arrive
at Mildura on Sunday and join the early Mildura-
Wentworth mail coach. To catch Thursday’s coach
you must arrive at Mildura on Thursday and ’phone
Wentworth coach office to delay Menindie coach
until arrival of coach from Mildura... .R.C.: (1)
There’s a classified list in the Post Office Directory.
(2) Cadets employed on metropolitan dailies living
away from home are not entitled to any extra
allowance. ... T.W.S.: The only reference to the Rip
in Navigation Department’s records is that on
July 15, 1873, while proceeding to sea to relieve
the Corsair, she met with very heavy seas, and
was dismasted, regaining her anchorage with diffi-
culty .... C.A.: All appointments to the N.S.W.
Weights and Measures Office are made by the Public
Service Board. Candidates must be under 20, and
promotions follows examination. For Q’land
conditions, see reply to 5299. . . .J.M.C. : (1) Dusting
for the control of peach-leaf curl is not considered
as effective as spraying. Leaflets posted. (2) The
May issue of Vic. Agricultural Gazette contains an
article on protecting early tomatoes from frosts.
.... L.W.: Military Clothing Factory, South Mel-
bourne. . . .W.H.M.G.: Granville and District Carrying
Cos., 40 Good-street, Granville; J. Paul and Sons,
91 Church-street, Parramatta. .. ,J.C.: Tost and
Rohu, 26 Martin-place, and Percy Marks, 5 Hunter-
strCet, both of Sydney... .L.U.W.: Copies can be
obtained through Gordon and Gotch. Files could
be inspected at the Municipal Library or at the
offices of the N.Z. Government Tourist Bureau, Martin-
place, Sydney... .L.W.W.: The cream that wouldn’t
turn was probably at too high a temperature when
put in the churn, and possibly the churn was too
full. Pamphlet posted... .T.M.H.: Yes, in the first
instance, but see your broker about it at once. If
he is a member of an Exchange you haven’t much
to fear.... J.L.K.: Ask the N.S.W. Fresh Food and
Ice Cos., Ltd., to show you their range of carts....
J.F.; (1) The Department has the records.
(2) Wing-Commanders receive from £2 to £2 10s.
active pay per day according to length of service
with from 6s. to 7s. 6d. per day deferred pay.
Group-Captains receive from £2 15s. to £3 4s.
per day active pay and from Bs. to 9s. per day
deferred pay. Wing-Commanders on the General List
retire at 48; Group-Commanders at. 55... .S.C.A.:
(1) No. Double-spaced typing with wide margins .is
sufficient. (2) Any kind will do, so long as it will
take typing or handwriting cleanly... .J.D.G.: The
S.A. Impounding Act 1926 provides that the owner
of any cattle found straying or at large or tethered
or depastured in any street or public place is
liable to a penalty not exceeding £2. Any diseased
cattle or any unsold impounded cattle of little value
may be destroyed on the order of a J.P Agent:
The Secretary, Real Estate Institute of N.S.W.,
30a Martin-place, Sydney, may be able to help you.
. ...N.P.C.: (1) The profession is sound and remu-
nerative and able and industrious men command good
salaries. (2) It is becoming difficult for men with
but mediocre talents to gain a footing, but there
are plenty of openings for good men. (3) Ranks
about third or fourth in the list. The standard is
not as high as the others.... Papa Gontier: Cannot
trace any secretary or organiser for claimants to the
Rose millions... .J.J.L.: (1) Yes. (2) Generally
on a lineage basis. The rate is fixed by agreement
with the A.J.A. (3) To resell an article without
the permission of the paper in which it originally
appeared would be an infringement of the Copyright
Act. (4) “The Australian and New Zealand Writers’
and Artists’ Year Book,” 2s. 6d A.C.H.: “List
of N.S.W. Aboriginal Place-names and Their Mean-
ings,” by W. W. Thorpe, 6d., Tost and Rohu, Martin-
place, Sydney... .A. 8.: Topeppi seeds are obtainable
from Charles Hargreaves, Brisbane-road, Manly,
Queensland. . ..C.R.8.: Quite a gamble. If things go
well for the next 12 or 15 years, profits may be
large. But one or two things going wrong may
spoil the lot H.T.R.: Same to you; and appa-
rently you can even less afford the risk D.J.IL:
Having held so long—against this paper's advice —
just as well to go on holding.


Portable Adding Machine
33 '< 6
•o . 6
s. 7
' 7. ,4.
7 -
6
13 A-. 7
'O J _
3. < J
5", t
13 3
3 3-
10. S
15 8. 17. S
«*»
cr»
.tT>,
sa®
S>l,
21
su
<3l
3)
,^S~
<3l
21
31
11
•hr-.
71
71
21
ri
SI
&1
Si
21
31
G 1
31
f: &
31
'Vtf/v
4 VO
21.
11
31
'?e*>c-AT
21
31
-&J
31,
31^
EKROn
21
<2l
m
31
31
21
¥■
21
21
71
21,
21
'ißmw
22
21
<2l
1
Is-
?f?se
i* 7jr
♦ id
, s>r
V* ••-
with Direct Subtraction
BURROUGHS
MACHINES
are priced fro
£32 : 10 :
The model illus
trated is £55:0:0
for twelve months
terms. Discount
for cash.
o 3
Direct subtraction! Merely set the lever in the
“minus” position and the machine is ready for sub-
tracting. Recapitulation is eliminated, subtraction
is reduced to one operation, with still greater saving
in time and labour in such jobs as adding cash
and credit sales, taking out trial balances, making
customers’ statements, etc. Ask to have one de-
monstrated in your office or, better still, write for a
free trial for a week or two on your own work.
Sole Distributors
IRA L. & A. C. BERK LTD.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Brvbare Hobart Perth
Rockhampton Auckland Dunedin Cwistc'urch Wellington
Newcastle


The
Stock
Owner
Is
1
\\
who consigns Cattle, Calves, Pigs, Sheep
or Lambs to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
for sale takes, a step which safeguards his interests
to the utmost, assuring him top values for his con-
signments and thorough care for his business in
every particular.
Rail or Ship Stock to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD.,
SALESMEN,
Homebush Yards, or Enoggera Yards,
Sydney. Brisbane.
df
Taxing Dependents
You may leave a heritage to your dependents but how
much of it will they receive ? Will they be forced to
sell or mortgage part of it to pay the heavy Probate
Tax ? Will they be provided for during the long period
of assessment when their property will be securely tied
up with not a penny available for current expenses.
P. &C C. Probate Assurance solves all these problems.
Write for full information on this important subject.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Gen. Man.: H. Fell
PRODUCERS CITIZENS
OPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA
ll4-120 CASTLE RE AQH ST. SYDNEY
PEAPES
—jor men AND their sons.
The results of concentration
are apparent in the fine
quality and excellent value of
any article purchased at
Peapes’. Every individual
in the organisation concen-
trates solely on men’s and
hoys’ wear to the exclusion
of all side issues and distrac-
tions.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
DRAINS FOR BOGGY PASTURE LAND.
“C.C.” : In a wet season, surface draining
of low-lying paddocks is very necessary, par-
ticularly in the cold highlands, for in such
country, if surface water is allowed to re-
main, it is certain to become breeding-grounds
for worms and other parasites, not to men-
tion footrot. Beware of water that spreads
from springs. It should be diverted to a
creek by running plough furrows if possible;
otherwise it can be assisted there with a
spade. If the land around a spring is very
boggy, it can be cheaply under-drained by
cutting a trench and placing two straight
saplings at the bottom, about 4in. apart, and
another on the top of them to keep them
apart. Fill up with light scrub, and put the
excavated earth on top. Boggy springs are
the cause of most of the troubles sheep are
heir to, and if a sheep-owning novice has
more cash than energy, and the draining job
doesn’t appeal to him, it will pay him well
to fence his sheep off from any doubtful spots
where stagnant water lies.
SUBTERRANEAN CLOVER.
“Agricola”: In 1916 at the foot of Mount
Rouse (Vic.) I first noticed that this little
plant grew well on soil that had obviously
become sour and out of condition. It was
evidently more palatable than the other
growths because it was grazed as closely
to the ground as the cows could bite
it. I learned all I could about it and
in 1917 I went over to investigate a state-
ment made by J. B. Clarke, of Piggoreet
West, near Ballarat, that by spreading
subterranean clover all over his property
lobelia-poisoning of his sheep had ceased.
This was true, and I found plenty of lobelia
still growing on Clarke’s land but no trouble
among the sheep. I have maintained a keen
interest in the clover and have found that,
like paspalum, it is remarkably adaptable,
and so at times we find it growing on poor
land and giving poor fodder. Its special
value lies in its power to grow and secure
its phosphate and other elements from re-
fractory soil compounds such as phosphate
of iron, with which other clovers will not
deal, and produce a sweet nutritious growth
relished by all livestock.
REGISTRATION OF GROWERS.
“Curlew” : It would be very good policy
for our agricultural departments to register
breeders of different kinds of stock; also
growers who specialise in particular varieties
of grains, potatoes, etc. Some years ago I
got a present of a small parcel of Sutton’s
Abundance potatoes. They did remarkably
well, and for two or three years proved abso-
lutely the best variety I had grown. But I
lost them in a very bad season. I purchased
two bags from a trader; they proved of two
varieties and neither correct. Last year I
again had two bags forwarded, but they were
not the correct thing either. There must be
growers of Sutton’s Abundance—it is too
good to be utterly lost —but I have no means
of getting in touch with them. If the Agri-
cultural Department, for a nominal fee,
registered growers as I suggest, I could easily
get the names of some growers—to their
advantage and mine. In the event of com-
plaints being received regarding the quality
or purity of stock or seed supplied, the
department could refuse to again register
that person. The register should be good for
only a year.
CLOVER.
“The Welkin”: We might well sow
more clover, particularly in dry and non-
lucerne areas. Clover will grow in land
scarcely suitable to any other kind of grass ;
in land which is sandy and dry, or even com-
posed mostly of gravel. Once sown there
will always be a constant supply, thanks to
the facility with which it sheds its seeds and
sows itself, and to re-sowing or spreading
by stock. So congenial is calcareous matter
to clover that the strewing of lime on some
soils will call into germination seed that
has been dormant for years. Clover im-
proves poor soils; it is perhaps the best
first crop. It is good for all stock; it will
not cause bloating nor will it taint milk.
Pigs do better on it than on any other
grass, and they should be rationed with it;
sheep like it as well as saltbush, which is
saying something. Bokhara is the stuff for
dairy cows. Except that it is somewhat
sweeter, it differs little from the red and
white varieties, which are about on a par.
In poor soils sow something like 251 b. to
the acre; in better soils less.
Results are best when sown in the spring,
except in areas where there are no frosts.
Don’t use any old seed. See that it is a good,
bright yellow, with plenty of brown-purple
colored seed amongst it. Clover grows tallest
when sown with cover crops.
. “Fez,” on bush hay (B. 27/6/’2B), men-
tioned clover as one of the two main
fodders which turned out so well. But
clover-hay requires much attention; the
same applies when it is mixed with other
grasses. The leaves —the best of the plant,
of course—are liable to crumble and waste
away before the hay is well dried. It should
be stacked before the stalks are dry; that
is, immediately after cutting. Use alternate
layers of straw when stacking, and salt it
at the rate of about- three-quarters of a
bushel to the ton. Horses like and do well
on it salted.
A good plan is to use a few rails in the
stack. These allow air to enter and prevent
the hay going mouldy.
BURNING OLD GRASS.
“Bosso”: “Agricola” (B. 20/6/-2S) says
I crashed in advocating burning off old
worm-infested grass to minimise sheep
troubles. I got my experience from long
practice, and if I crash I do so with a lot
of men who nave been among sheep all their
lives and still burn off any long, coarse
grasses they find in their paddocks. If a
run is partly burnt off, the sheep will always
be found upon the burnt country so soon
as the first green shoots of the new grass
appeal 1 . No matter how much old long grass
there is, they will not leave the sparse
shoots on the burnt country so long as a
nibble remains. In fact, they prefer to
camp alongside the blackened roots waiting
for them to shoot, rather than tackle the
dry, wormy grass that remains in abundance.
The top-dressing with super, that “Agri-
cola” advocates is quite all right for in-
creasing the growth of grass and clovers,
but it doesn’t destroy the eggs of the worms
that are in the long coarse grass. Even, if
top-dressing with super, is a better method
of prevention, how does “Agricola” propose
to spread it in timbered paddocks that are
mostly standing up on their edges?
WORMS IN SHEEP.
“Dan Dr ewe” : Apropos a recent inquiry re
drench for worms in sheep. In this district,
s.-e. Darling Downs, dosing is as regular
an operation and unfortunately a much more
frequent one than shearing. The accepted
formula for those who prefer an arsenic
drench, is 2oz. arsenic, 61b. Epsom salts, 5
gal. water. This quantity should dose 350
to 375 sheep, allowing for waste, giving-
each sheep two fluid ounces.
The usual method of mixing is to boil
about three gal. of water in a five-gal. drum
—-when boiling add the salts and arsenic—
keep the mixture boiling for 45 minutes,
stirring occasionally, then add cold water
to fill the drum.
This makes the individual dose 2.18 grains
arsenic (using avoirdupois weights, as I do)
and approximately of salts, a very light
dose of the latter.
Many old hands assert that a 2oz. dose will
occasionally kill a healthy sheep, whilst one
almost dying from the effects of worms may
live, and benefit, by a dose of three times
this quantity.
My chemist friend tells me that Epsom
salts is not a solvent for arsenic, but I have
used this drench, prepared as described, for
some years with good results and no losses.
The dose is administered with a combined
drenching horn and measure made of heavy
galvanised-iron, shaped like a bottle, with a
hole at the 2oz. level.
Sheep may be dosed in any small yard,
and a touch of raddle on the rump of each
as dosed will lessen the possibility of dosing
one twice.
The handiest method is to have a race
2ft. 6in. wide, and, say, 20 yards long; this
will hold upwards of 50 sheep. A long-
post each end of the race, with a wire
strained between them, to hang the half ben-
zine-tin containing the drench, and one man
and dog should be able to drench 150 an
hour. Yard the sheep the night before and
keep them away from water for 24 hours
after dosing.
Now what is known regarding a disease
vulgarly known in this district as “knotty
guts”? This name graphically describes the
condition, wlncli is caused, I am told, by a
worm that rejoices in the name of CEsopho-
gostoma columiianum. Drenching as above
described, though quite effective in ridding
sheep temporarily of the ordinary stomach
worm (Strongyhis contortus) , has no appar-
ent effect on my friend CEsoph., etc.
SHEEP BUYING.
“The Bat” : The fruits of experience:—
Don’t believe all the agent or seller tells you;
have a good look through them and handle them
yourself.
Pick out the scraggy ones and carefully mouth;
if they are plentiful ask for a reject.
Look out for the different ear-marks and any age
marks. This cannot be done by sitting on the fence.
Avoid buying lpts of different ages and various
shearing times. A shilling extra for an even line
is better than getting a nondescript lot.
You know when your own sheep were shorn; get
sheep that were shorn about the same time, and thus
avoid two shearings or having wool of different
lengths.
The nearer to home you can buy your sheep, the
less it will cost to get them in your paddocks. A
line of sheep a few hundred miles away whose price
looks inviting may turn out a lot dearer than
higher-priced sheep nearer to home. Be there to
take delivery; if not able to do so, have someone
reliable. Honest men are few and far between in
the stock-dealing game.
There are good and bad drovers. Get the best
available, tell him his route and any instructions
necessary and leave the rest to him. Good drovers
do not like interference whilst on the road.
PROFITS FROM SHEEP.
“Bosso”: “R.R.R.”’ (B. 20/6/’2B) shows
a gross return of £9OO from 500 breeding
owes, and says a much higher return could
be obtained in a good season. Even if his
run is a corner of Paradise free from blow
and crow, a lot of sheepmen, including the
writer, would like to have a few details con-
cerning those ewes. Merino or crossbreds?
Deaths during lambing? Percentage ot
lambs? How many marked? How many
marketed? Weight of wool cut from ewes,
and price thereof?
With regard to “R.R.R.’s” “Don’t buy old
sheep or inferior sheep,” it is not a good
practice as a general rule, but a lot depends
upon circumstances. Certainly don’t buy old
wethers, but if you can fatten them, there
is often good money in old ewes. For in-
stance, a neighbor of mine bought a mob
of old ewes six months ago at a fraction over
Bs. per head. He put them on good, soft
feed —mostly old cultivation paddocks, and
sold them recently to the butchers at 235.
Needless to say he doesn’t expect to do as
well as that every time, though old ewes
are generally good buying if one is reason-
ably sure of fattening them.
WHY WOOL IS SOLD LOCALLY.
“Breed” : One of the principal reasons why
so much wool is bought by dealers is ignor-
ance on the part of farmers. Many of them
still think that wool-broking firms are merely
buyers. When a wool-broker’s traveller calls
on some farmers their cry is always, “No,
I am going to sell my wool on the ground
this year. Your firm did not pay enough last
year.” Explanations are useless. This idea
is encouraged by unscrupulous dealers, and
their proposal to the farmer to avoid freight
and commission charges, allied with the fact
of spot cash, appeals, and the dealer goes on
his rounds rejoicing. The wool-brokers ought
to pay more attention to their advertise-
ments, impressing on the farmers that they
act as brokers only, and do not on any
account buy.
NEW WATERING-PLACES.
“Bosso”: “N.M.L.’s” remarks (B. 6/6/’2B)
concerning the advisability of impressing
upon sheep the whereabouts of a new water-
ing-place are sound, particularly as regards
crossbred sheep, which are more stupid than
the pure merino, and are inclined to hang
about in the corners of their paddock dur-
ing a dry time instead of foraging for grass
and water. But I have found that when
sheep that have been accustomed to creeks
and darns are required to drink out of
troughs, they will be very thirsty before they
approach them near enough to see that the
strange objects contain water. In that
case a lot of time is saved by splashing
water about the troughs. They recognise
the familiar smell of wet earth, and are en-
couraged to investigate.
RING FENCES AND LICENSED GATES.
“Limpy”: Members of a Queensland shire
council recently brought a storm about their
heads by deciding to disallow the erection
of any further licensed gates across the
public roads. The inconvenience caused to
motorists by these gates cannot be com-
pared with the trouble their removal would
give to settlers. In the case of sheep-
farmers living on opposite sides of a road, a
couple of gates may save each the erection
of several miles of costly netting fence and
help them a good deal in keeping the dingo
in check. If they were not allowed to have
these gates each would have to erect a
high dingo-proof netting fence along his owu
side of the road; also the road makes a
narrow travelling way for dogs which, if
startled by night traffic, will often leap a
fence—a performance which at other time;-
they would not attempt.
The erection of “ring” fences is coming
into favor amongst settlers on small sheep-
runs, and this is only possible with the aid of
licensed gates. A number of settlers who
have taken up adjoining blocks co-operate
in obtaining Government netting to erect a
high ring-fence around the group, each man
then enclosing the remainder of his selection
with a lower fence of cheaper marsupial
netting. Thus, each mau has much less
fencing to watch against the possible in-
vasion by dingoes than would be the case
with an open road between the properties.
LOOK AFTER THE BELLY WOOL.
“Bud-G”: In fair-sized clips it’s a mistake
to make only one lot of belly wool. Both
length and quality vary, and some carry
more seed and condition than others. Bale
from wethers and ewes separately, taking
care that all stains are sorted out and dried.
Make the longest and finest quality wool
into the first lot, having regard to freedom
from seeds and burrs and also condition.
The short, burry, seedy and heavy con-
ditioned will go into the second lot; and then
a cull lot may be necessary. Belly wool
brings good prices, and careful sorting means
a big difference in the wool cheque.
WILL HORSES’ BONES KNIT.
“M. G. Gawthorn”: I handled a case my-
self some years ago at Forbes. The mare
was about three years old at the time and
was run over going through a gate—she had
been tied to the side of a five-horse dray
loaded with wheat. The wheel ran on to
the mare’s leg, smashing it. My father-in-
law, the owner, was going to shoot her. I
took her in hand and put her in a sling
and splints; after abont six weeks I let
her gradually take her legs. She was then
turned out for some months. She was after-
wards worked in saddle and harness up till
the time she was 26 years old. Two or three
foals were bred from her meantime.
HARD MOUTHS.
“Aneb”: Riding by the reins when a horse
is bucking is not the principal cause of
hard mouths (B. 20/6/’2B). Chiefly it is due
to the animal not being properly mouthed
before it is first ridden. The average coit
bucks for seconds only; and 80 per cent, of
'well-handled colts never buck, in the true
sense of the word, at all. Heavy hands make
the hard mouth undoubtedly; but to say
riding a colt “on the reins” for seconds
causes a hard mouth is nonsense. Mouth
before you ride; use a monkey-strap if you
like; if uncertain of your perch, use the
strap by all means.
FAULTY SEPARATION.
“P.M.”: “Paul C.” (B. 16/5/’2B) blamed
an unbalanced bowl for high butter-fat con-
tent of separated milk. There are three
other causes that I know of: —
(1) Turning, the handle too slowly.
(2) Separating the milk too cold. It
should be at least 80 degrees Fall, and 80
is better.
(3) Letting the milk settle before separat-
ing. It should be kept stirred so that the
milk entering the bowl is about the same
test all the time. If not, the low-test milk
at the bottom will go through all right, and
when the top, where all the cream has risen,
reaches the bowl, a lot of it will go down
the skim-milk spout in clots.
MILKING MACHINES.
“P.M.”: “Paul C.” (B. 6/6/’2B) says the
buyer should instal the milking machine that
has the milk pipe in sections which can be
dismantled. This is quite unnecessary. If
the milk pipe is properly put up and care-
fully soldered, there will be no crevices to
collect germs. As for the pipes joined up
with rubber washers, my experience is that
they are not the best, but the worst of the
lot. I have used both kinds of machines.
I have graded a good few cans of machine-
produced cream in butter factories, and I
have found that almost any machine if kept
thoroughly clean will produce choicest-grade
cream.
If “Paul C.” wants to be always taking
pipes down in sections and cleaning them,
how would he get on in a butter factory
where there is perhaps 50 feet of piping from
the pasteurisers to the churns? I worked in
a factory where the pipes were taken down
and thoroughly cleaned in the slack season,
and then 200,000 gallons of cream were put
through them in the season. Every day they
were thoroughly swilled down with nearly
boiling water and washing soda, and then a
steam hose put in one end and plenty of
steam blown through them to kill the bac-
teria. It is boiling water and. steam that
(Continued on page 31.)


DANKS/^«6
(
r&yi
✓ C
y J
Create the atmosphere op
the past or the present
These modern wallpapers will also correct
building defects, warm cold rooms—sub-
due overlighted ones, add height or de-
crease it, and add generally charm
ijl'g:... and elegance.
The Public
(the best judge)
is buying
the
New
Season’s
Designs
in
Tapestries
Satin Finishes
Leathers
Burlaps
Oatmeals
Polychromes
with
Style Borders
for Panelling.
mm
mm
m m>?
m
mt
m
i'tei
a! 6®B
M
m
m IS=A
m WmM
JOHN DANKS 8 SON Pty.Ltd.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
Westclo^C
Big Sen Deluxe
21/.
II
10 f 12
2
10
;4
Sleep-Meter
luminous .
"i'-A.
10
rockeuQei)
Ben Hur
%
Pocket Ben.
%
Buy with Confidence
LIKE anything else, you can buy clocks and
low-priced watches with certainty —the name
Westclox on the dial is your guide.
Look for that trade mark and choose any model
with confidence, for they’re all uniform in quality.
Here are Big Ben De Luxe and Ben Hur, two of
the newest Westclox models. They’re designed on
a new principle. Sturdy and dependable, these
new clocks possess the qualities that have made
Westclox the standard for many years.
There’s a range of reliable Westclox priced from
8/6 to 28/6.
Built by the makers of Big Ben and other Westclox
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
BROWN & DUREAU LTD., Distributors for Australia
MELBOURNE . SYDNEY - PERTH • BRISBANE
11
Aeroplane - Experience-Builds
a BettefeQedrfc Plant/
vn.nNV'
lu
H
£
“IS
\s>\\
4:
n-
V
<V
%
A' .
W
ro HM THE KING
BOULTON & PAUL LTD.
Norwich, Eng.
HOME LIGHTING
AND POWER PLANT
WHEN you know that one of the world’s largest aeroplane
makers also builds an electric light and power plant, you
know that it must be something different—vastly superior. You
expect that it will be built with the same precision and care
that are exercised in aircraft manufacture. And when you
examine Electolite, you’re not disappointed!
All the experience gained in building about six thousand aero-
planes during the past twelve years, and of manufacturing
numbers of Electolite plants for the British War Office for
arduous war-time service, is incorporated in Electolite.
It is the strongest, simplest, longest-lasting plant ever offered in
Australia. It supplies ample power not only for lighting, but
also for operating an electric iron, vacuum cleaner, refrigerator,
milking machine, separator, churn and many other labor-saving
devices both in the home and on the farm.
And, above all, it is low in price, and so economical that many
users claim it to cost less than city electricity. Let us send you
literature giving complete details, without obligation on your part.
GENEROUS TERMS MaKE PURCHASING EASY
EDMUNDS BROS. & CO.
187 a Flinders Lane, Melbourne, G.P.O. Box 683.
154 Castlereagh Street, Sydney: 3 Gilbert Place, Adelaide.
Box D 147 G.P.0., Perth. Box 1139 P G.P.0., Brisbane.
Resident Factory Representative: R. R. Foulser, 154 Castlereagh St., Sydney.


THE BICEPS OF
BUSINESS
3;
,x
X:
s
■-• Sv
THERE is sheer brute strength in
the Republic Truck—strength
which turns obstacles and
ordeals into mere details. More than
that, the strength of Republic is
controlled strength, strength in the
right places, strength which prolongs
life and multiplies earning power. lt
is this earning power, this capacity
for years and years of profitable
service, which gives rise to the fact
that there are more Republics on
to-day than theifijakes of
anyXjher exclusive truck manu-
facturerg. Republic
indeed
■S/I
<,r
a?
•far
tar
m
m
<? y/ w i.-jr > ,• r
J’\ .r* / rf ‘
iceps of
... 4
XT" X,.
AV°
I}T7V
cw*
ts^
&«
v^<V,
«g PUBLIC
Q- -" - -
M 2,
inn
r “H
min •
11111 l
f
tin ifiin
V
New South Wales:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
Victoria:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
South Australia:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street Adelaide.
sd
TRUCKS
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD.,
Crowle House, York Street, Sydney.
Western Australia:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
Queensland:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
New Zealand:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.


,1
: v ' u - o'
14?
Vv
M
:
r'k
Soft, snug. . . and
double-soled!
A hard-wearing Abbey boot that
is pliant and good-looking as
well. Made on a special last
that cannot be bettered for
easy-fitting shape.
LINING Soft leather through-
out del-ghtfully restful to the
foot. There’s no canvas inside
and not one raised seam to cause
chafing.
UPPER An advantageous fea-
ture is the slight sloping of
the upper to back of ankle.
That makes it fit more closely
and comfortably.
LACING The pronounced arch,
enabling the upper to lie more
naturally over the instep, can be
seen in the illustration.
3 WIDTHS Narrow, medium
and wide fittings available in
each size.
POSTAL ORDERS—State width
and size needed. Ask also for
the correct Abbey Polish (6d.
per tin).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 47/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 45/-
M-page Catalogue Post Free on Request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St,
Lsi. SYDNEY.
I
\
s§>
Cuticura Comfort
For Aching Feet
For tired, irritated, burning
feet a bath with warm water
and Cuticura Soap, followed by
a light application of Cuticura
Ointment, gently rubbed in, is
most comforting. Cuticura Tal-
cum dusted on the feet is cooling
and refreshing.
Soap l*.,Talcum ls.3d„ Ointment la.and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co.,Sydney, N.S.W/
IMF Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
GRJEY
HAIR
WOULD
1 SPOIL
IT
Qood Taste Needed
Good taste appreciates the beauty of Shelley China. A Shelley
Tea-set speaks of quality in every graceful line, in purity of
colour (a secret three generations old) and the featherweight
lightness which it combines with unsuspected strength.
Afternoon tea, served in China so exquisite, has that note of
modest splendour which every lady desires.
Ask. to see the latest Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Dainty White China,
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel Lucie Attwell and Hilda Cowham,
Shelley Domestic Ware, and Shelley Jelly Moulds—all British. In case
of any difficulty in obtaining write to: — T. W. HEATH
& CO., LTD., t}t CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sftd&b
Look for the name Shelleq on each piece of China
\
A,
y*v
<^v e
eft®
\> c
V\C'
\\e’ 1 '
rSE"’
WALNUT
STAIN
REMOVES IHE GREY
fsd
"kk, <
*=**■*
-f,'-
2*
The Martin Ditcher
Australia's Road-Builder
Road-building, Repairing and Main-
tenance are carried out with ease by
the Martin Ditcher, either with horse
or tractor. It is the best friend of
the municipal shire engineer.
All parts are welded,
bolted and riveted
together. The blade is
of high-carbon steel
and every ditcher is
guaranteed.
fs
Price £35.
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
T. & G. BTg, Light Square, Adelaide.
B.K.
keeps tlic butter factory clean; and the
farmer who can afford a small boiler in Ins
dairy should never have any trouble with
his grading.
MARKETING EGGS.
“Silentio”: For a start buy the boxes
that the trade supplies, and cut out the
home-made butter or kerosene box. See that
the boxes are strong and clean, and well
branded, lids as well; if you are in a big
way number them so you can keep track
of them. Fillers should be of leather board.
For an attractive appearance line the case
as you would a fruit-case, preferably with
white paper. At the side of each filler as
you pack place wads of crumpled paper
not too tight. In fastening the lid use two
nails; one often comes out, and then there s
a cry of stolen eggs. . .
In selecting eggs for packing, place all
the browns in one case and whites in an-
other; or, if you have not sufficient, place-
all the dark ones in one filler. Don t
market dirty eggs. But never wash an
egg; clean with a damp cloth and carefully
dry. Never pack damp eggs ; the cardboard
filler may go musty and probably contami-
nate the lot. A longisli egg can be safely
placed in the corner of the filler. When
the filler is completed run your hand over
the eggs and gently turn them to one side
so that the flat will not touch the tops of
the shells. Failure to do this will often
result in many cracked eggs owing to the
weight of the fillers above.
.SALTS FOR DAIRY COWS.
“Agricola”: Most patient and thorough
work has been done in nutrition at Wis-
consin '(IT.S.A.) by McCollum, _ now of
Johns Hopkins University. Similar work
was done at Ohio by Dr. E. B. Forbes as to
the role of the salts. I made myself ac-
quainted with tlieir findings and have again
and again proved their worth. Teeth require
fluorine, which make the hard enamel, and
lime and phosphate for their bulk. The cow
seldom has teeth trouble. Grass and rough-
age is quite rich comparatively in fluorine,
and the exercising she is compelled to do
keeps her jaws and gums in order; when
lime and phos. are scarce in her ration, as
it often is, it is from her skeleton and not
her teeth the supplies are taken to put in
the milk.
Epsom salt is sulphate of magnesia. If
common salt is missing it is idle to increase
the amount of Epsom salt except when re-
quiring a simple laxative. With a milch-
cow our problem is to maintain the correct
balance of all the nutrients she requires to
make lots of milk and keep well. She has
been bred for many generations for the
main purpose of making milk and at
calving time a sudden change in circulation
is brought about. The oxidation processes
in the blood are absolutely essential, and they
are dependent upon its proper balance of
mineral elements. Under certain conditions
of poverty in these minerals so called milk-
fever occurs. Correctly, it is paralysis;
there is not any fever at all. It is conceiv-
able that common salt may in cases be better
than Epsom. A mixture of Epsom, Glauber
and common salt is certainly much superior
to any one of them alone. We can go better
still by pouring boiling water on fresh hot
ashes from the fireplace, and after it settles
use the clear solution to dissolve the salts
mentioned. This gives up phosphate, 'lime
and potash, and with some ginger and mo-
lasses makes the best all-round drench for a
freshly-in cow that science can offer.
STANDARD-BRED POULTRY.
“Jack Point”: The bulk of exhibitors (and
prize-winners) at shows are not poultry-
farmers, but men who make a hobby of keep-
ing what are known as standard-bred fowls.
If one takes the trouble to inquire, the
fact comes to light that any poultry-farmer
who tried to make a living from these
standard birds alone would starve, for the
simple reason that they don’t lay anywhere
near enough eggs. Almost needless to say,
the system is imported—no, not from
America; we don’t import their sensible
system—from England.
When the standard for the white leghorn,
for example, was formulated, the fact that a
white leghorn’s primary duty is to lay lots
of eggs was quite overlooked, with the result
that a bird is given up to 15 points for a
perfect pair of ear-lobes, and no points for
the obvious ability to lay a great numb r
of eggs! The “standard”-breeder’s line of
argument—he has only one —is that it is for
him to keep the birds up to the standard,
and the poultry-farmer’s to make such
specimens prolific. Rubbish! No poultry-
farmer with any sense would take a standard-
bred bird and place him at the head of a
pen to play havoc with the egg-laying
ability of the progeny. Of course, the Aus-
tralian black orpingtons, which have estab-
lished world’s records in England and India
as well as South Africa, are absolutely be-
yond the pale so far as the fancier is
concerned. Ask any breeder of standard
black orps., and he will turn up his nose and
inform you that it is not an orpington at all
—it is merely a black fowl with tight
feathers, legs that are too long and many
other serious defects. An official of the
Poultry Club of Queensland informed me,
just about the time that W. Burns’s bird was
making the world’s record of 354 eggs, that
that club intended to outlaw the awful
things from future shows!
PROTEIN FOR COWS.
“H. 8.”: Milking cows must have protein
in sufficient quantities if they are to do
their best. Green corn is a fine, luscious feed,
but it is not rich in protein. A cow fed on
green corn, sorghum, pumpkins, mangolds,
turnips and such-like needs also a feed
rich in protein. Lucerne hay is such a feed.
Bran and pollard are rich in protein; lin-
seed meal and peanut meal are protein feeds.
But there is no need to buy concentrated
feeds such as these if lucerne or cowpeas
or soy beans are grown. Cowpeas can be
grown anywhere, and cowpea hay is nearly
as rich in protein as bran. Why buy bran
when its equivalent can be grown on the
farm?
DESTROYING RABBITS.
“Curlew”: In fumigating rabbit burrows
with carbon bisulphide life is too short and
the wages bill too heavy to waste time at
the pump handle. We manage it better.
Carbon is heavier than water, so we carry
the stuff in a kerosene-tm with three inciies
of water on top of it. Bagging cut into
four- or six-inch squares is rolled into a
ball, dipped in the stuff, allowed to drain for
a while, then pushed well into the burrow.
The number ot caarges depend on the size
of the burrow. Those openings that are not
to be charged are first filled in with soil.
The gas from the carbon spreads quickly
through the burrows. After putting in from
two to six charges we toss a match in after
the first one. The gas will explode and prob-
ably fire the other charges. Quickly filling
all openings ensures that every rabb.t therein
is a dead bird. By firing the stuff the air
in the burrows is used up and replaced by
deadly fumes, and the explosion tends to
force the fumes everywhere.
But cyanide (cyanogas) is about one-
fourth the .price, and if anything more effec-
tive, is much easier to handle, and there is
no risk in using it if one remembers to
always stand between the wind and the tin
of stuff. But don’t fool about with a blower.
There is no necessity.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Neurone”: A b-t of maize mixed with
the fowls’ ration gives the yolks of .the eggs
a rich color.
“Silentio”: Thank heavens, the Australian
wire-netting manufacturer is giving us a
better article now. In the days past the
bulge in the centre would make a _ saint
swear, especially if the next-door neighbor
was putting up the English article. The
stuff on the market now is easy to handle
and strains as well as any imported stuff.
“Neurone”: Tie up the tyke even when
you put your strychnine in birds. “Dalai”
(B. 2. ; 76/’2S) forgets that many dogs not
too well supplied with meat will tackle
bird flesh if it is a bit decayed. Even when
the carcase is rotted to a boneheap and
the feathers are blown away, the strychnine
keeps its sting in the bones that will attract
any canine; so pick up the unused butts,
and let the neighbors know when you are
poisoning.
“Tallawalla” : After 19 years' experience
I find the best of many methods of starting
the calf to drink is to raise its head w.tn
the finger in the mouth and pour w.tli the
other hand about a teaspeonful of milk into
the mouth. It will commence to suck the
finger and then all is easy.
“Agricola”: “C. O. W. Joose” asks
(B. 13/6/28) if a bull can be put off
duty by hobbling. It is a simple matter of
tying his head to one foot —a good strap
around his fetlock linked to a loop over nis
horns. If he is a poley then he requires a
suitable halter.
“Rueltama”: Maize makes a firut-cktss
pig-food, but it should never be fed in large
quantities aloue, as it tends to make tne
flesh soft, oily and not a good color. But
when fed mixed with honey, pollard and
skim milk and potatoes, it is hard to
The cob itself is innutritions, yet. it _ be-
comes a valuable food when ground into
meal with the grain—it increases d.gesti-
bility.
“The Bat”: When baling skins place a
piece of bag or hessian both on top and
bottom of the bundle, and secure firmly with
wires right round. There’s then no chance
of skins getting torn or lost in transit.
“Ruetama”: A. better remedy for greasy
heel than “N.B.’s” (B. 20/6/'2S) is to app.y
with a brush a solution of zinc chloride one
drachm and boiled water six cunms; soak
some cotton-w, ol in the solut o i and .ban-'
dage the pad on to the parts affected. Keep
tins up ior about a week, then app.y an
ointment made up of one part of zinc
oxide to two parts vaseline.
“ a ufu”: For leather dressings I have
found castor oil and marrow fat unbeatable.
Get the marrow from a fresh shin bone, and
melt it down in two parts of castor oil.
Apply this mixture warm to leather which
has been previously well washed in warm
water.and soft soap. Never apply castor 0.l
only, or you will burn your harness.
“Pullet”: The cheapest way to keep down
mites and other lice in the fowl-house is to
burn plenty of old rag or paper when the
fowls are out feeding. Do the job once a
week.
“F. Act”: lie the dead-in-the-shell trouble,
I proved by exp.rience that 90 p.c. of this
i 3 caused by low temperature. I do not
mean that the thermometer reading is low,
but the temperature in different parts of the
tray is below thermometer reading.
“Pick” : Rust spots appearing on the ex-
terior of the galvanised-iron tank are fore-
warnings of leakage. So'lder strips cut from
a petrol tin over the rust, or, if not an
expert with the soldering iron, give the
patch a thick coating of paint. When the
paint has partly dried stick thereon a patch
of strong canvas and paint thickly again.
Then when dry cover again with a hard
drying varnish, and the expense of a new
tank will be headed off.
“Agricola”: Cows suffering from mam-
mitis should be milked last and by hand
into a bucket containing disinfectant, such
as lime or phenyl. A diseased quarter
should never be milked on to the ground, as
the germs may adhere to the dust and be
carried on to other cows’ teats and thus
infection will be spread.
“B-Gar”: Tell “John R. T. (B. 13/6/’2S)
that his inclination to believe that paddy-
melons are the cause of horse blindness in
the Mallee is correct. Horses are not the
only animals likely to be affected by a
gorge of the melons. I’ve seen both sheep
and cattle blind in the Broken Hill district
through the same cause. Fresh pasture and
careful doctoring of the eyes will remedy the
complaint. The only sure cure known is to
keep the stock eff this fodder.
“Rustic”: At Ivongorong, Mount Gambier
(S.A.), a small merino ewe recently gave
birth to four lambs. Prior to this she gave
birth to four, and then to five lambs, making
13 in three lambings.
“Jack Point”: Approximate lengths per
lewt. coil: Plain: ,8 gauge. 506 yards • 9
gauge, 700 yards; 10 BBO yards; 121
gauge (high tensile), 14S0 yards. Barb”:
12 gauge, 440 yards; 12£ gauge, 610 yards;
14 gauge, BSO yards.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Hooni Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder
f
Ik
Address Manager—
KCWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
#
r a
13
1
MARTELLS
BRANDY^^H
will appreciate
the, cLellcajbe
Bouquet and
mellow flavour of
Shipped solely from the cooaiac oisrmci
South Australia’s Most Modern
Hotel is
Piper’s
Hotel Richmond
128-130 Rundle St., Adelaide
Now Open to Receive Guests.
Hot and cold water and telephones
in every bedroom.
Rooms with private bath. Every con
venience for comfort of guests.
Tariff, inclusive Board, 22/6 per day.
Private Bathrooms extra.
A limited number single rooms 20/-
per day.
Telephone: Central 606.
W. A. PIPER, Proprietor.
SMOKE-OH!
Nothing recedes like success.
*
The soft word turnetli away wrath, but
the hard word frequently letteth it loose.
It’s a wise child that knows its own father
from its own mother these days.
We would suggest as an amended National
Anthem for Australia: “Australia, the Land
of the Gee.”
* *
The difference between Jupiter Pluvius
and a chemist is that the latter expects to
be paid for it.
Parliament is a place where a man is
allowed to use a one-hundred-horse-power
noise to express a one-ass-power idea.
We agree with the N.S.W. mother who,
making a claim for child endowment, stated
that she had “thirteen oofspring.”
One of Sydney’s wealthiest men says that
all his money is the outcome of hard work.
He doesn’t say who’s.
It is understood that the opposition of the
Vic. Country Progressive party to the serv-
ing of chilled meat in railway refreshment-
rooms does not extend to soup.
As a lover dear Janet’s so chronic
Her tally of swains soars balloonic.
She says that it all is platonic — /
Perhaps!.... I should say it’s platoonie.
N.S.W. M.
Beauty: “Hasn’t she got thin legs! Just
like a pair of clothes props!”
The Beast: "Well, isn't that what all
women’s are?"
NATURAL CURIOSITY.
N ORA “What ever made you go up with your hubby in his
aeroplane?”
DORA: “I wanted to look through his air pockets, my dear.”
We learn that to prevent Melbourne detec-
tives on exchange duty in other States
from getting homesick, efforts are now being-
made to have them billeted near shooting
galleries.
% *
Most social lions are tigers for publicity.
The fact that the Loongana was recently
held up by a fog has, we learn, caused
the Seamen's Union to protest firmly against
this grave infringement of its rights.
A Sydney Judge stated recently that a
witness in a divorce case did not seem to
have any respect whatever for Truth. Still,
we have known Sydney University senators
about whom the same might once have been
said.
Well, here’s hoping that all fliers that
ever come to our shores are pacific fliers!
HOW I LOST THE PUP.
I am normally a peaceful man, but I
found an enemy the other day. I simply hate
a man who beats me as a
liar—and then I lost the
pup.
This is the tale he told.
Jimmy James was a careful
chap, and on going to town
for the usual spree, cashed
his cheque and put a ten-
shilling note into his sock.
A week later, broke and
sober, Jimmy was heading
back to work when th >
bulge in his sock drew his
attention to the note. Now,
ten bob at tlm end of a
spree is quite different from
ten bob at the beginning and
the pub was a mile behind.
Was it worth while going-
back^
Jimmy had to face the
problem, and sat down on a
handy log to think. He cut
a fill of tobacco, and care-
lessly stabbed the knife into
the log. Then the old goanna,
on whose tail he was sitting,
bucked so violently that
Jimmy landed right back
at the pub door, and he went
in and spent the cash to help
him get over the fright.
I had to give the man the
dog because I know Jimmy
-—and he doesn’t wear socks.
T 'TrnT-T'fi'TTß
“0.W.W.”: Wholesale bribing might be
all right in places like Sydney, but over
here in Maoriland we have a man who re-
fused to attend a country sports meeting
because lie heard there was to be an under-
hand chopping event.
* *
It’s when they howl that most women
have the laugh on men.
“ Jae” : They were both lying on a stack
of cargo at smoke-oh time, puffing up clouds.
"Wonderful thing,
wireless, ain’t it,
Bill?” said Jim.
“Too right it is,”
Bill agreed. “D’you
think they'll ever
be able to speak
to the stars, Bill?”
Jim added. “I sup-
pose they will,”
said Bill; “them
scientists are pretty
clever blokes.”
“P’raps the stars
speak to each other
now,” Jim persist-
ed. "Well, they
orter be able to,”
Bill agreed; “look
how close they arc
together.”
A political poten-
tate was taking his
sister-in-law and
her small boy round
Parliament House
during the Easter
Show in Sydney.
They had se e n
many things; but
the small boy
wanted to see yet
one more. “Where
do they keep the
dogs, uncle?” he
asked. “The dogs?”
“Yes, uncle —the lion-hounds. Dad said
Parliament was full of ’em.
* *
Kingsford Smith was presented with a
whale’s tooth at Suva. Since then lie must
have often wished for a whale’s digestion.
* *
“Bad teeth are a cause 1 of crime,” says
a leading doctor. We expect to hear of
some vigorous protests when criminals find
that instead of being sent to gaol they have
to go to a dentist.
This weather we realise the full truth of
that old motto, “When indolence is bliss ’tis
folly to arise.”
“If she be not fair to me.
What care I how fair she be?”
Said the poet of the tabby.
“If she be not fare to me,
What care I whose fare she be?”
Is the version of the cabby.
All these Royal Commissions must be re-
garded as royal commissions by the legal
fraternity.
NEVER KNOWN HIM TO TEST IT.
"Are you insinuating that I can’t speak the truth?"
"Not at all, old chap. I don’t know what you can do
till you try.”
Advertisers, please take note: Our office
is inundated with art calendars darly
every year. The office boy always gets the
one showing a Hereford cow. The boss
keeps the one of Psyche going for a bath.
f
But loving is a natural thing —
Affairs of poet, sage and king
Arc sung throughout the ages.
Then why wax nasty and look dark
When I meet Bertie in the park
And do —as did the sages?
n.s.w. Musette Moeeix.
“He was weak from exposure,” says the
S. M. Herald, “after two days of bitter,
cold.” The seasonal thing, of course, being
rum, hot.
INTERVAL.
“Positively shocking performance, I call
it! Why, those chorus girls are half-naked!
And the bad language! To think that such
words could be used on the stage ! Some of
the jokes are most suggestive, too —full of
double meanings. I really don’t know what
the Theatre is coming to, nowadays—cer-
tainly no place to bring impressionable
young people.
Ting-a-ling-a-ling
“Oh, there’s the bell for the next act!
Quick —we must hurry in.”
Doric.
Many a woman thinks more of her hus-
band if lie turns and shows some spirit, but
the majority prefer the worm that just earns.
Furriers complain of the public being led
to think that “all furs grow on the back
of a Cootamundra rabbit.” We understand
that this protest is strongly supported by
rabbits in other districts.
Yarra Yarra Golf Club, in Victoria, has
its water supply from bores. Most golf clubs
rely on them for gas.
It is said that a watched pot never boils,
but some of these gay old pots are apt to
boil if watched too closely.
sjs
The fruits of folly are the plums
gathered by Divorce Court lawyers.
If Jack and Jill go up the hill
These days to get some water,
Jill’s glad-rags are as nought as nil
If not a little noughter.
It’s not always easy to tell what a woman
means when she says, “She’s one of my
oldest friends.”
THIS WEEK’S FAIRY TALE.
The plumber, having arrived on the sub-
urban job, found that he had brought all
.his tools with him.
MAXIM FOR STOCK EXCHANGE
PUNTERS.
Fools rush in where angels—have trodden.
For “angels” read “artful ones” —new light
has shone.
The place they find is trampled on and
sodden;
The “angels” have been there —and then
moved on!
s.A. Bill O’C.
People in a Sydney hotel were recently
astounded to see a nude woman walk into
the bar. They must have been in the bar a
good many years for that to astonish them.
A funny thing about most comedians is
that there isn’t a single one.
RALLY TO IT, SCIENCE!
We can gauge the weight of a distant star
And measure an atom's tummy,
We've the radio, aeroplane, motor-car
And other things still more rummy.
But ice can’t —and this is a lack most sore
And not a fit subject for laughter
Preserve the zest of the night before
On the sad grey morning after!
N.S.W.
HYRAM.
THE ABDUCTION.
The Governor’s daughter slowly paced
Her garden path, and as she faced
The garden wall, her face grew ivan,
For three bold ruffians sat thereon.
The maiden’s nurse paused as she passed;
Upon the rogues her eyes she cast,
And with express the nurse-maid got
Into tho nearest cactus plot;
While with a sweet and true devotion
She watched the scene of the commotion.
One seized the girl (Ah! it did seem
She’d wake the township with her scream!)
O’er her head (although she cussed)
A sugar bag teas quickly thrust.
Her hands were tied, her feet made fast,
And scarce a single minute passed
E’er she was lifted to the wall
And bundled o’er (despite the fall).
The maul broke cover. (Oh, she would —
She’s always breaking something good.)
She ran to tell the ■Governor what
She’d witnessed (and a deal she’d not).
Soldiers rushed through and through the
town,
Searching up and searching down —
Yet though they turned each inch of ground.
The blinkin’ girl could not be found.
Now at the time, a chap named Wentworth.
Who had of terror not a eentworth
(I fear the use of that’s a crime,
But there —I had to have, a rhyme),
Accornp’nicd by two friends (his best)
Wished to delve into the west.
Said the Governor, eyes awater;
“If you see my darling daughter,
Tell her to come home. I want her —•
Goodness knows where she has gone ter.”
Papers gathered from afar
Talcs that tickled poor papa.
Said: “We’re told the biocides practise
Torture —which we’ve found, a fact is.
And the bushrangers about
Turn their victims inside out.”
You will see that all this talking,
Kept papa (like Felix) walking ....
After several days had passed,
Nell, the girl, came home at last.
Into the town a horse came plodding,
Ears downdrooped and head anodding.
m < CRAS.
READY TO DO A DEAL.
THE MEENISTER: “So you’ve decided to
marry again, Mr. McPhairson?”
McPHAIRSON: “Aye, an’ Ah would vurra
much like to know how much ye’ll
allow me on th’ old wuddin’?”
Coming on behind the horse,
Filled with gloom and deep remorse,
Were three rogues the like of whom
Couldn’t be found twixt here and Broome.
Firmly tied together, they
Were very red and far from gay.
While n-pon the horse, disdainful
(Just as though her task were painful),
Safely sat the Governor's daughter.
Captor of the rogues who’d caught her.
N.S.W.
RUSSELL J. OAKES.


BLACK
WHITE
* • ;!
.
,
M $
mm
K*
mm
:-■'■■■
'
mL m
S* .f
v %
mi
SI
i- .a i
, # In
(t.W4 " *
t: „ '
m
m
A
.» ••
i
a*9
jf fly-
■ ■aS&'Tfe ?, i . j
. S; .1
••
- $ : »•
: -
. . :
% f
.
■■ •
m
asj'j
SCOTCH WHISKY
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION OF THE COMMONWEALTH CUSTOMS.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.


FAME!!
o n merit alone I was selected to supply the
White Trousers for the visiting West Indies
Cricket Team m 1923. In 1926 the Australians
were wearing clothes made by me; also the
New Zealanders in 1927. The West Indian
team playing in Britain this year are wearing
kit exclusively supplied by me.
These celebrated teams are naturally fastidi-
ous over the cut and quality of their clothes.
Are you?
I have been in business now for 25 years and
my Australian clientele is growing rapidly, as
are the number of repeat orders I receive.
The dloth I use is made by the most reputable
manufacturers from the finest Australian Tops.
The cutters 1 employ are “live” .men with
wide experience of British and Colonial tailor-
ing, and the clothes they make are guaranteed
to give satisfaction.
My prices are based on cash payments only,
Lounge Suits, for instance, costing from 7
to 10 guineas.
W. G. JENNINGS,
119 Newgate Street, London, E.C.I.
df
sdf
sd
Scott's
Its happy central position, together with its unusually
complete modern first-class equipment have made it
Trtt icsort of country, interstate and overseas visitors
to Me.bouine ever since the city was founded.
Eledri- Fires in every bedroom.
Inclusive taiiff by Day or Bed and Breakfast Rate
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD
Telegrams and Cables: “Scottsotel, Melbourne”
’Phone: Cent. 90(1 (10 lines)
SCOTT’S HOTEL
Collins Street, Melbourne
f 5
mn
REED
£& 9110
‘Allenbunys
Black Currant PASTILLES
Protect the mouth and
throat against infections,
allay irritating coughs Jjjp
and clear the voice.
& Your Chemist stocks
Poverty
Point
“L. de K.”: If John Brownlee ever loses
liis operatic job he should easily become Aus-
tralia's greatest concert singer. After a lib-
eral discount' for parochial enthusiasm, his
two concerts at Geelong were a discerning
tribute to this fact. Brownlee’s platform
personality is somewhat reminiscent of
Joseph I-lislop’s. lie has the same ability to
switch from deep emotion to hazy lyricism
or quaint humor, carrying his hearers with
him th(i while; and his voice is always
more than adequate. It is a remarkable
transformation- —from a hardware counter to
the Jiigli-class platform in five years.
“Craiser”: Interviewed in Melbourne, con-
ductor Bavagnoli sounded a not very en-
thusiastic note anent the Australian members
of the grand opera orchestra. He remarked
that, whereas in Italy an orchestra, though
new to him, would know every bar of the
music they had to play, here ’ they had to
start practically from the beginning. The
fault lies in the general demand for Yankee
jazz. Except during the infrequent opera
seasons, Australian orchestras, intended
for higher things, spend most of their time
grinding out a monotonous succession of
“Yale Blues” «nd “Varsity Drags,” each as
like the last as so many tins of American
pork and beans.
“C.I1.”: In “Madame Butterfly” Puccini
left a heavy legacy to producers. The open-
ing remark of the leading lady is “I am
Little Butterfly —16,” but “I am Little
Elephant—49,” would be more appropriate
in the mouths of most of the famous singers
who have performed the' part, since the music
the words are set to can emerge satisfactorily
only from the chest of a stout prima donna
verging on maturity. From thinner and
younger chests it invariably loses quality in
the higher notes, and from a real Japanese
throat it would not bear listening to. The
producers for the Williamson-Melbas have
Several singers who would fit the part phy-
sically, but the only one besides Hina Spani
(the lady who took it in Melbourne) who
can do the singing is Lombardi—and she is
no apple blossom, either.
“RIO RITA," AT SYDNEY ST. JAMES.
Dave Malien, as Chic Bean out on the
loose.
“Moritomo”: On behalf of the Japanese
aesthetic, I protest against the assumption
of the Melbourne critics that the staging
of “Madame Butterfly” is a true mirror of
Nipponese domesticity. Compared with a real
Japanese interior of the class, Gho-cho San’s
drawing-room is a junk store of Oriental
oddities. It contains movable furniture, for
one thing, whereas even a bedroom should
contain only a kakemono with perhaps a
precious vase beside it. Even in a second-
rate Japanese inn, all chests of drawers
cupboards, etc., are hidden, and the dining-
table consists of a tray brought in and
deposited on the floor. Still, perhaps, Butter-
fly may have bought the extras in order to
make Pinkerton feel more at home.
“Eureka”: A curious pass into the
theatres is held by J. Worrall, of Melboufne.
In 1886 Williamson, Garner and Musgrove
presented a medal for the best batting aver-
age obtained by any player in Melbourne
pennant cricket, the medal entitling the
holder to free admission to all their theatres
for 12 months, or, if won twice in succession,
free admission for life. Worrall won it
for the second time in succession in 1895,
and the present J.C.W. firm still honors the
contract.
“Hamlet, Junior”: Those glorious,
tucked-front, spun-gold-effcct drop curtains
in the million-dahlar movie temples are an-
other snare and delusion. They are made
of one of the cheapest cotton fabrics manu-
factured. Hot rollers give the gloss dur-
ing manufacture and the spotlight does the
rest.
"O. Kay”: I can tell “I. Phelps” (B.
27/6/’2B) that Australian-Italians did have
much to do with putting money in the Mel-
bourne opera box. Never has Melbourne
found space for so many of the tribe. They
came from everywhere—canocutters from
Bananaland, woodcutters from all over Vic.
and suburban residents who had not ven-
tured into the city for years.
“Goldilocks” : America appears to be tak-
ing notice of Dorothy Helmrich, who, when
she returned to Sydney after an initial suc-
cess in the Fog City, was treated coldly by
local music patrons. New York and Boston
critics place her among the four or five best
singer", introduced on the concert stage dur-
ing recent years.
“Caesar's Ghost”: Anthony I’rinsep has
an interest for Australians besides being (
Margaret Bannerman’s husband and man-'
ager and the ex-liusband of Marie Lohr.
When he was a boy Phil May used him as
a model for his “Guttersnipes” pictures.
An original drawing is a prized possession.
“Ula”: “Razzberrying” (B. 27/6/’2B)
was born in the English music-halls. The
Yanks stole the practice, and it found favor
throughout the country, but it has since
lost its polish. Incidentally, a notable fea-
ture of the picture “What Price Glory?”
was the “razzberrying” of Australian Ted
MacNamara.
“S.T.S.”: Neville Ravel, who was conduc-
tor of the “Rose Marie” tour throughout
Australia and M.L., has settled down in
Adelaide. He is starting as a teacher, with
a special view to orchestral classes. Ravel
learned his art in Ireland, and had long
experience in London and on the staff of the
Conservatorium at Calcutta. He toured Asia
as solo violinist with Ada Reeve.
“S.T.S.”: Ben Fuller finalised the Majes-
tic Theatre deal in a 24-liours’ visit to
Adelaide. Grand opera is promised for
October, and when, in about five years’ time,
the present leases fall in, “the Firm will
erect a theatre and hotel in keeping with
their reputation.”
“Lud”: “The Silent House” will be the
first Mos.covitch thriller when lie gets back
to Australia from Maoriland, where he has
been trying the piece. It was recently taken
off the boards of the London Comedy after
over a year’s run to make way for a new
Avery Ilopwood farce on “Fair and
Warmer”-—and slightly warmer—lines,
called “Our Little Wife.” But the Hop-
wood effort faded out after five perform-
ances, and the “Silent House” mummers
had to hastily cancel summer-holiday
arrangements and obey an urgent summons
to handle their old parts, the “Thriller”
once again taking its place in the comedy
bills. London theatreland had never known
such a speedy revival.
“Broadway”: Sydney’s old friend Ver-
brugghen was the grand panjandrum of the
Chicago Musical College competitions held
in the meat-packing city in May. He con-
ducted his own musical family—the Min-
neapolis Orchestra, which accompanied the
competitors—and also acted as presiding
judge. Marshall Sumner, a competitor who
hails from Victoria, collected for his play-
ing of the first movement of the D minor
Concerto of Rubenstein a very handsome
first prize—a superb Mason and Hamblin
grand piano. In the opinion of the judges
the performances were all above average,
which enhances Sumner’s success.
“Due de B.” : “L. de R." is wrong in his
sequence of Gilbert and Sullivan operas (B.
20/(V’2B). The historic partnership com-
menced in 1879, with “LI.M.S. Pinafore” at
the Comique, a playhouse which stood
near the site of Australia House, After
the series was produced at the Savoy, the
two peppery collaborators quarrelled about
a carpet, and “Ivanhoe” (libretto by Julian
Sturgess, music by A Sullivan) wms pro-
duced at the then newly-constructed Opera
House, now the Palace, in Shaftesbury-
avenue. That was in 1891. A complete
revival of the series in the middle ’nineties
procured the late Clias. Kenningham
(“C.K.” of The Bulletin) an instant recog-
nition of his brilliant talent. The enor-
mous income derived from the rights of
these operas is proof that clean and clever
entertainment still pays.
“P.H.”: Taking the Colemans’ scenery
of “Thais”—seen in Melbourne —as a stan-
dard, there seems no reason why so much
should be imported. Nothing I have seen
can beat the exterior of the house of Nicias.
with “the terrible city” below, and- the
street outside the palace. In the first there
is a perspective and reality that open scenes
strive for but very seldom achieve, and in
the second the height and solidity is a
triumph.
“Stallite” : When the Fullers rebuild the
Majestic in Adelaide they’ll win -the thanks
of the multitude if they instal some system
of central heating. The Royal just lately
b] , tbe interior of a cold-storage
dmmbei-; iK fact, Sat people
arrive in shoals carrying travelling-rugs to
*rap round their legs.
“MADAME BUTTERFLY.”
F.B. Pinkerton (Minghetti) gives grand-
opera reasons why he cannot take his
Little Butterfly (Hina Spani ) to U.S.A.
“Hamfat”: Real drammer is coming back
to Sydney with a vengeance. After “When
London Sleeps” lias throbbed at the Grand
Opera House for a week, that howling
nightmare, “The Face at the Window,” is
to look in. Bill Anderson is in charge once
more.
“L.H.P.”: It is a long time since I saw a
scene-painter take a call on the Sydney
stage, but in the ’eighties first-night audi-
ences used to yell for Gordon or Hennings.
Gordon’s winter “set” in “The Silver King,”
at the Royal, in ISS4, was so generously
applauded that he had to appear twice.
“Cine Ma”: Melbourne’s next picture-
theatre, now being constructed on the old
Herald site in Flinders-street, will house the
first example of the new enlarged screen,
described in a recent “Point” part. A special
lens will allow of effects that will be almost
panoramic, though curtains will narrow the
huge sheet down for more intimate occa-
sions.
“Kelby”: Anona Winn, remembered here
as a protegee of the late Lee White, is
steadily climbing to fame in London. She
recently deputised for six weeks as loading
lady in “Hit the Deck” at the London Hip-
podrome, and won agreeable notices from
the critics. She has been doing a lot of
provincial touring in the past two years,
and seems to have developed as a dancer.
An Edinburgh morning paper described her
as “vivacious and volatile,” and added that
the audience was very loath to let her go.
“Wigs”: When Henry Irving was near-
ing the top of the tree at the London
Lyceum, most of the press critics were also
aspiring dramatists. Irving, a shrewd busi-
ness man as well as a great actor, was once
entertaining an American colleague who
was making his first trip to England. “How
do you get on with the critics?” asked the
American. Irving smiled sardonically. “I’ve
bought a play from every one of them,” he
said.
“Lud”: The latest Ben Travers farce,
“Plunder,” which has succeeded that humor-
ist’s “Thark” at London Aldwycli, has as one
of its leading fun-makers Tom Walls, well
remembered for some excellent character-
comedy in Australia. Between times he
takes a turn at race-riding on the flat, gen-
erally on a horse of his own.
“L.H.P.”: Fritz Hart is not the fii’st
local composer to get a hearing with an im-
ported grand-opera co. In 1887 the ener-
getic Martin Simonsen produced at Melb.
Alexandra “I due Studenti,” by Alfred
Plumpton. The company included Lazzar-
ini, Pimazzoni, Buzzi, Cavalleri and Rebot-
taro, the last very like Nellie Stewart in
appearance.
“St. John’s Wood” (Lond.) : A surfeit of
worthless plays has led to a disturbing slump
at West End theatres. Piece after piece is
put up and put down again after the brief-
est of runs. Such a succession of poor stuff
has never been known in modern times.
Musical shows and a few fairly good pieces
which have had the luck to get the support
of the Bond-street “libraries” (which are
really speculative booking offices) are play-
ing to good business ; but apart from these
there is a famine. Some blame the high
rents, which in cases have now reached £750
a week. Others blame the new experiment
of smoking, which has frightened the fasti-
dious, and among the critics E. A. Baughan
traces the slump to the modern producer,
who encourages an anaemic style of acting
with its natural sequence of inaudibility.
Many theatregoers say they are so accus-
tomed not to hear what the actors and
actresses are saying that now they don’t
care whether they hear them .or not. Until
the day returns when actors resume acting
there seems little prospect of a theatre
boom.
“Cauboy”: Former Butterflys have com-
mitted hara-kiri along lines different from
those adopted by Hina Spani or her pro-
ducer in the present season. In the 1911
production Ivorolewicz-Wayda sent Little
Trouble away to play,
retired behind tli e
screen to stab herself
with the family clay-
more, and then, as
the despicable Pinker-
ton’s tenor was heard ap-
proaching, fell cut on the
floor and agonisingly dragged
herself across the boards in
the general direction of the
sound. Spani’s method is to
plank her offspring on a
cushion near the footlights,
put a toy American flag in
her hand, retire as aforesaid,
and then, while the stage-
struck infant mechanilcally
waggles Uncle’s national em-
blem, roll towards her with
a motion more suggestive of
a performing sea-lion than a wounded mem-
ber of the species Lepidoptera. Those who
confuse bathos with pathos should prefer
the latter method.
“L.11.P.” ; There is really no need here yet
for the kind of theatrical trade journal whose
absence “Craiser” (B. 27/6/’2B) deplores,
because managers know who are working and
who are not. Incidentally, trade journals
devoted to pictures make a precarious living,
which depends upon the wholesale houses'
advertising. The only live theatrical papers
Australia ever had were Lew Parkes’s
Green Boom: and Frank Hill’s Theatre
Magazine. They went under when adver-
tisers began to send their ads. to Sunday
journals. Anyone who tries to run a theatri-
cal paper, trade or otherwise, in Australia
lias my profound sympathy.
“Flop”: Picture fans at Stralian (Tas)
are summoned to) tlijeatre by steam r boa:t
whistles, sounded at intervals from 7.30.
The power for showing the films is de-
rived from the engine of an old steam-
yaclit, once well known on the West Coast,
and from the time the first sparks begin to
fly, about six o’clock on picture nights, until
the last three whistles have blown at eight
o’clock there is a constant chug-chugging as
if the whole outfit was going to put to sea.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Ernest Hutcheson,
the Australian-born pianist, who has long
made his home in America, has again joined
Guy Maier and Lee Patison, who in com-
bination toured the Commonwealth a few
years ago. Even profound students of music
“RIO RITA," AT SYDNEY ST. JAMES.
Janette Gilmore, as Dolly the Cabaret
Dancer.
have been surprised at the variety of com-
positions which have been discovered for
the programmes of this tlirec-piano combi-
nation. Hutcheson, among other activities,
is the chief of the Juilliard Musical Foun-
dation. Another old Australian favorite
who continues to find life comfortable in
America is Henri Verbrugghen, who is one
of the five distinguished conductors engaged
for the Hollywood Bowl Concerts, which
will bring a great galaxy of talent to the
Pacific coast.


ytock# 'favourites-
(9 V n (jILMOBE.
KeXQNA, and REXONA J>Q4l>
GirW
O (jctthe
ABIT.
M I
/ .
.
: ::
. n
m
m
%
MISS JANETTE GILMORE,
the Talented and Beautiful
Dancer in “Rio Rita,” at St.
James Theatre, Sydney, is a
Rexona Girl, and writes us as
follows: “It was worth while
coming all the way to Aus-
tralia, if only to have dis-
covered Rexona Ointment, not
forgetting Rexona Soap. They
are fine and dandy, and I shall
never again he without them,
especially Rexona Ointment,
which I find a very present
help in my training. All my
friends are also getting the
Rexona habit. I recommend
Rexona and Rexona Soap very
sincerely to everyone.”
The Rexona Habit results in Health and
Beauty, and once formed will never be
broken. There are .two Rexona Habits
-—that of using Rexona Ointment to heal
all injuries to the Skin, and the Rexona
Soap Habit, which consists of keeping
oneself healthy and beautiful by the
daily use of Rexona Soap. Rexona, the
Rapid Healer, and Rexona Soap mean
skin health and beauty, comfort to the
user, and immunity from disease, so
form the Rexona Habit. Start using
Rexona and Rexona Soap to-day. You
will be delighted with the results.
Two charming studies of
MISS JANETTE GILMORE,
a Beautifid Rexona Girl.
'(f Cooling
'Soothing
Healing
yrir.liseptic Oinimen! '
r oll rif>« f Absolutely'
‘ » Heals Reliable
A Reliable Healer for all Eruptions
and Irritations of Ihcsfon Ecioina Soros 1
Bums Bruises Sores Scialira Piles Stings of Inserts
and oil foods of Inflammation
'REXONA OFP’ SHELDON DRUG C 0 I">SVDNEV
HE TRIANGULAR BOX
B&xona
Jhe Rapid
flealer
A
MEDICINE
CHEST
IN ITSELF
i
■
\
It
s,
%
&
* 4
1
*
$ cy,*
V:
55
M
%2*ma Soap
aiuijjeaiihj


z
I.
\
9
9
jf^nWORTO
/ N >
We have secured an order from the
Great Western Railway Co. for fifty
0-6-2 tank engines. These will all be
delivered before the end of this year.
When speedy delivery and a high
standard of workmanship are essential
the great railways of the world come to
ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH
AND CO., LTD.
Sales Organisation —■
Kinnaird House , Pall Mall East, London , S.W.I.
Works and Shipyards .... Newcastle-upon-Tyne .
Sole Representatives for Australia: Messrs. Gilbert-
Lodge & Co., Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide.
TAM IK
SHIPS MARINE ENGINES LOCOMOTIVES
GENERAL ENGINEERING
M.C.725.


rr
HE IS PREMATURELY OLD
Still young in years, but in his body has begun the deterioration that
comes with Age. It is thus that Pyorrhea affects thousands of men and
women.
Pyorrhea is a disease of the gums, but its germs invade the body and
deplete vitality. They often weaken essential organs, such as the heart
or kidneys and may cause rheumatism, aneemia or other disorders.
Medical science has proved this in the greatest clinics in the world.
If you would retain your vigor of body and mind, avoid Pyorrhea.
Four out of five people over forty have this disease. It begins with tender
and bleeding gums. Then the gums recede, the teeth decay and loosen,
or must be extracted to rid the system ®f the infecting Pyorrhea germs
which breed in pockets around them.
End your Pyorrhea troubles before they begin. See your dentist
regularly for tooth and gum inspection, and start using Forhan’s for the
Gums to-day.
Forhan’s for the Gums will prevent Pyorrhea or check its progress
—if used in time and used consistently. Ordinary dentifrices will not do
this. Forhan's keeps the gums firm and healthy, the teeth white and-clean.
HOW TO USE FORHAN’S.
Use it twice, daily, year in and year out. Wet your brush in cold
water, place a half-inch of the refreshing, healing paste on it, then brush
your teeth up and down. Use a rolling motion to clean the crevices.
Brush the grinding and back surfaces of the teeth. Massage your gums
with your Forhan-coated brush gently at first until the gums harden,
then more vigorously. If the gums are very tender, massage with the
finger instead of the brush. If gum shrinkage has already set in, use
Forhan’s according to directions, and consult a dentist immediately for
special treatment.
Formula of R. J. Forhan, D.D.S., FORHAN COMPANY, NEW YORK.
Price 2/- and 3/6. Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores, or will
be sent post free upon receipt of the price by
the Australasian Agents, Sheldon Drug
Co., Ltd., 131 Clarence
St., Sydney, N.S.W.
flt
foJf
£ C ij fr- £ I § ,
* -g x *: §g& £
4 o. </} pe #■» o. .?
|-?c */
111
ts
4
iU tJUJdthk
ati
ForhaiVs
FOR THE GUMS
Checks Pyorrhea
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital
Issued Capital
Paid-up Capital
£lOO,OOO
49,161 vv
30,234
Directors:
John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
G. Woodger, Esq.; S. J. Goulston, Esq. •
R. G. H. Joseland; Esq.
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax.
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
L. G. FUSSELL, General Manager.
COWBOY SADDLERY OUTFITS
TEXAS RANGER SADDLE,
m
mb
'ij-y
r '.
ZJ
J)
£l3/13/-
The favorite Saddle of
the cowboy type. Fin-
ished in nut brown
leather and double
rigged with wood stir-
rups and cord cinchas.
Freight Paid for Cash with
Order to any N.S.W. Railway
Station.
No. 53—Fancy Breastplate, as
illus., with brass studs. . 757-
No. 54—Fancy Bridle, , to
match breastplate, with gold-
color bit with nickel horse or
bison head on cheek . . 76/-
No. 73 —Leather Chaps, with
nickel conchasand fringe, 917-
No. 70 Ditto, no conchas—
-85/-
No. 81—Linen Rope Lariat—
-22/6
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOGUE OF AUSTRALIAX
AND TEXAS SADDLERY.
fs
Walther § Stevenson, Ltd.
395 George Street,
SYDNEY
Type, Tripe & Co.
Among the books and booklets in Esperanto
for tourists and students of economics _ one
that has recently been published in Leipzic
is entitled “Australia: the Country and
People.”
Thursday Island has the smallest daily
newspaper in the English language. It is the
Pilot and is printed (one side only) on a
sheet eleven inches by nine wide. Sometimes
when news is scarce it is only five inches
wide.
“Llew” : J. H. Earnshaw lias put in nearly
35 years with the Daily Commercial News
and Shipping List (Sydney), Australia’s
one alid only out-and-out shipping and com-
mercial rag. That must be the Australian
record of service with a “trade” journal.
Frank Murphy, cable sub. of Melbourne
Herald, who has been elected general presi-
dent of the A.J.A. in succession to C. E.
Sayers, is not going to have an easy time
for a start —the current metropolitan award
terminates in December and the provincial
award has to be fixed up also. Sayers has
changed over to Sydney Sun.
The S. M. Herald can get along with-
out any evening bugle, but it probably
begins to regret that it let the old Echo die
out. Curiously enough, two former editors of
the Echo are among the five judges in The
Bulletin’s Great Australian Story competi-
tion —Mr. T. B. Clegg, barrister-at-law, who
afterwards went on to the N.S.W. bench;
and Mr. Thomas Ileney, afterwards editor of
the S. M. Herald.
A Melbourne show :
Judging bj r his latest show at the Athenaeum, AVill
Rowell’s vision is Undergoing a process of refine-
ment. He is not as obsessed as formerly with the
dramatic effect of gum-trees seen against the sun,
but is turning round and studying the subtler differ-
ences of tone created by light which is diffused. His
paint, however, is still laid on his skies so heavily
as to cast unpleasant shadows —if he saw the same
thing in Nature be would ’phone the Government
astronomer and ask for an explanation. Two port-
raits aren’t particularly successful. The handling
of the tone is elementary, though the girl with the
interesting face and cloudy eyes sits further back in
the canvas than the likeness of the artist’s brother.
According to one critic, one portrait is an exercise
in tone and the other an exercise in light, though
what the difference between light and tone in a
picture is remains a mystery to present commentator.
SAFETY FIRST!
“I shall be painted with my gloves on.”
“Yes, do. My last sitter took to me with the gloves
off.”
L. F. Benaud, who founded the Richmond
River (N.S.W.) Herald —better known as
“the Pinkie”—42 years ago, is still very
active, though he handed the Herald over
to a younger Benaud 17 years ago. The
pioneer continues hearty and energetic
enough to be Mayor of Coraki and chair-
man of the Moonem Electricity Co. and a
dozen other local bodies.
Daryl Lindsay’s latest topographical sur-
vey of Nature, curiously reminiscent of
English water-color work of 100 years ago,
is on view at the Fine Art Galleries, Mel-
bourne. The artist has been looking at
brother Lionel’s etchings so much that the
main street of Richmond (Tas.) appears
mysteriously populated with Spaniards. The
show is rather like a potboiler’s anthem, but
there is a chaste Jap simplicity about No.
11 and other of the mountainscapes, and
the Speck’s convict masons get several solid
testimonials. Daryl is a very clever
draughtsman, but as regards tone has an
accommodating eye; otherwise how could lie
leave No. 35, “Gateway, Ross,” covered with
white flecks which suggest silverfish, but
are really patches of bare paper?
•Tames R. Jackson, hitherto content to
browse amongst the gum-trees and track
Strawberry down to his lair, has done the
Europe tour and returned with a picturesque
assortment of Roman ruins, ancient bridges
and the like, which he liaa put on exhibition
at the new gallery, Melbourne. His ambi-
tion is great, and his love of high colors
strong, if a trifle unchastened by observation:
but his art ha 3 broadenend generally. Tin-
church facade in No. 4, “Pont Brescou, Mar-
tigues,” is as fair a bit of painting as any
in the-show.
“Gwy”: In protecting the local product
from imported cheap fiction magazines, Aus-
tralia might do worse than copy Canada.
Canadian publishing houses have been fight-
ing for a long time to dam hack the flood
from across the border. Under a recent Cus-
toms ruling about 50 U.S.A. periodicals must
pay a duty of 25 per cent., instead of getting
in free. No new legislation was needed.
HE WOULD HATE TO INTRUDE.
“Thish, me dear, ish Horash, me old co
legsh pal.”
“Pleash t’ meetcha ( hie ). I 'member [catch-
ing sight of her face]— but I muzzn’t
stay—mustn’t (hie) keep lil' love-birdsh
outa bed.”
With an ingenuity worthy of Uncle himself
(who, when lie desires to block an import in
a hurry, usually discovers some handy law
or regulation), the Canuks found that these
publications “consisted almost wholly of fic-
tion” and did not contain “a reasonable
amount of critical or descriptive articles,
news items, or articles relative thereto, or to
current topics,” as required by the Customs
regulations to entitle them to duty-free entry.
It is doubtful if this will suffice ; but the step
is significant because it is the first bit
of official encouragement Canadian publishers
have received. Canadian public bodies
applaud the move, discerning a , menace to
nationality, if not indeed to morals, in an
unrestricted flow of gaudy slush, ranging
from stories of the underworld to
“romances” of the screen.
Adelaide Register has lost another old
friend in Frank Monk, Avho, though only 63
at the end, had been in its
service within a few months
of a lialf-century; for the
last 20 years he was the day
overseer. In his younger
days he was a noted tenor
of the Orpheus and other
musical societies. Errol
Monk, of the Flying Corps,
now of Singapore, is a son.
Ray Clienoweth, a compara-
tive youngster, gets the
Register job. Interested in
Freemasonry and a keen
amateur gardener, Fran k
Monk was reckoned S.A.’s
champion dahlia-grower.
“Phil P.”: Able-seaman
and journalist A. J. Villiers,
of Hobart Mercury, did not
strike a purple patch when
he shipped as one of the
crew of the Herzogin Cecile,
Port Lincoln to Falmouth.
96 days. A vessel of 2498
tons with only 19 hands for’-
ard means hard work and
lots of it all the time. The
Finns evidently run their
ships with skeleton crews.
The big four-master is not
fitted with labor-saving gear,
which means heavy pulling
for a full crew, so it’s a case
of all hands on deck for any
job out of the ordinary. But
Villiers knows the ropes—
he has even voyaged to the
Antarctic in the Norwegian
whaler Sir James Clark
Ross. Perhaps there will be
another book to round off his experiences.
“Sutton’s Circus”: Let me put forward my
elaim as co-editor of the first dinkum paper
published by a unit of the A.I.F. in the
field. Pat Clay, of Sydney Sun, and myself,
both of Third Field Amb., produced our
baby, the Une-Zac, in White’s Gully in the
earliest days of Gallipoli. We hoped to get
a “zac” a copy, but the business end was
a failure. A reptile contemporary appeared
on the beach at infrequent intervals, but
it was only a one-page affair. The Une-
Zac had editorial, personal, political, society,
sport and wild-cat columns, it being moulded
on Bulletin lines. I was put on the mat
for articles appearing in the editorial, per-
sonal and society columns, the colonel con-
sidering they were too damned hot even for
the warm times we lived in.
ODE TO SAPPHO WRITTEN ON A
TYPEWRITER
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Girl of golden melodies,
Don’t get fussy at the crackle
And the cackle as I tackle
This here ode by southern seas.
Blokes and flappers still are lovers
As in long-gone days n.c.
Love (between you, girl, and me)
Seeks the same secluded covers.
Sure, my Sappho, try your fingers
Nimbly on the lyre I ply !
While Browns spin and Smiths must fly
And the same old daylight lingers,
Sling off- half a dozen odes
To your Aphrodite, sweetest,
Wallop them in fancy fleetest—
Frogs and butterflies and toads.
Instruments are no much matter
After all, no doubt, you think.
Human blood must be the ink
Even for this idle chatter.
Take my ode then, rarest sister,
Rattled out for love of you.
Boarls, I know, are all your due
Still there’s worship in this blister.
N.S.W.
ADELAIDE STREET.


How does he do it ? In four minutes he’s down,
smooth-chinned and smiling, the envy of all men
who don’t know the secret. He uses a Valet.
The “rushed” shave has no terrors for the
“Valet” owner, because the razor’s always ready
for him. In ten seconds, with noth ng to un-
screw, he can put a professional edge on the
blade ; after shaving a rinse under the tap leaves
the razor clean for the next time.
“VALET*
JL
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australia :
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Agents:
Van Staveren Bros., Ltd., Aucklcnd, Wellington , Christchurch .
No. 55 Set. Contains specially
designed razor , three blades
and strop in hinged container.
In highly polished \ C\ f
mckelled case . . I U
Oj all dealers
I
la
. *»
K f 1 ""'
MMer
°#§ wiin JE ho
ENO does only one simple thing. But because
that very thing lies at the root of healthy
living, it’s everything.
The “dash” of ENO, bubbling and spark-
ling in a glass of water, first thing every
morning, helps your body, gently and
naturally, to free itself from the waste
products of digestion.
By purifying the blood ENO helps
to overcome those minor physical
troubles which are often the fore-
runners of more serious ailments.
Winter ills cannot get a foot-
hold in a system vigorous with
the health that ENO brings.
Prepared only t>7
J. C. ENO, LTD.
London, England.
Sa/et Agents: The
British Harold F.
Ritchie Si Co., Ltd.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
«
♦ ♦
♦♦
IN
TWO SIZES
at Chemists
and Stores
THE WORDS "FRUIT SALT” AND ENO AND THE LABEL ON THE PACKAGE
ARE THE REGISTERED TRADE MARKS OF J. C. ENO, LTD, LONDON, ENGLAND
A
New
Energy
with Sanatogen
Energy, bodily health and nerve strength f
These are the secrets of those happy,
exceptional days when "everything seems
to go right,” when you have an unwonted
feeling of vigour.
C<Z?
With Sanatogen you will work better,
feel better, and be able to enjoy your
leisure hours to the full.
Start to-day with
SANATOGEN
The True Tonic - Food
At all Chemists—from 3/9 per tin.
GENATOSAN LTD, LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.


BOLT ACTION 22-Cal. RIFLES
Are Wonderfully Accurate.
Walther Automatic Rifle. . £6/12/6
Mauser, Repeater £6/5/-
Winchester, Model 56 Repeater..£s
Winchester, Model 5 7 Repeater—•
£6/12/6
Savage, 1923 Sporter Repeater—
£s/15/-
Stanley. the Latest, Repeater, Maga-
zine holds 56 cartridges .... £9
These Rifles use 22cal. long-rifle cart-
ridges; will give groups at
100 yards, ALL POST FREE.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith & Importer of High-grade Firearms,
’Phone: MA3540.
110 b BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY
Welcome the Coming —Speed the Parting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER.
Ask (or Resch’s by Name.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
ROMANO’S
York Street, near Mc<£et Street,
(behind Civil Service ?,ores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up—Beautiful
lighting effects—A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Cafe de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines').
(Also under the personal supervision of Romano .)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The 1928 Grand National Steeplechase
will be remembered for the spectacular fall
of the favorite and a most exciting finish.
The finish was fought out by last year’s
winner, Nyangay, who had fenced brilliantly
and been in the van for the greater part
of the journey, and Namera, third last year
and. second to Clan Robert in 1926. Their
thrilling struggle occupied the whole length
of the straight, and it was only in the last
30 yards that Namera, served by a great
advantage in weight, got the better of
Nyangay, to win by half a neck. Always a
good Flemington performer, the old. Nar-
cisse gelding had taken the Kensington
Steeple on the previous Saturday (Nyangay
won that race last year, Clan Robert being
third and Namera fourth), and his success
was popular.
There were a dozen starters. Chaumont,
who had been galloping like a Cup horse at
Caulfield since his victory at Flemington
on June 4, was one of the hottest favorites
on record, 7 to 4 being called as they lined
up.. Namera was next in demand at 7 to
1; Epergne and Clan Robert were at eights
and Nyangay at nines, tens being Glen-
tronie’s price; nobody bothered much about
the others. Clan Robert was the early
leader, but Nyangay showed the way over
the abattoirs treble, where Glentronie fell;
Chaumont, carefully ridden by Claude
Grice, had gradually improved a somewhat
unfavorable position. Jumping the stand
treble in fearless fashion, Nyangay led out
of the straight from Oral Treaty, Clan Rob-
ert and Chaumont, and he made the pace
very warm. Five furlongs from home he
was still in front and going well, and Chau-
mont was moving up steadily. Then was
heard a great roar of “The favorite’s
down.” Chaumont, when shaping very like
a winner, had toppled over at “Jumbo.”
Nyangay jumped the last fence clear of
Oral Treaty, but once over the . obstacle
Namera joined the leader, who slipped as
they turned into the straight—he slightly
interfered with Namera, and lost a little
ground himself. In the grim run home the
201 b. difference in weight told, but Nyan-
gay was gallant to the last. The 40-to-l
shot Oral Treaty, who fenced splendidly
throughout, was four lengths behind last
year’s winner, Clan Robert being the same
distance away fourth; after a gap came
Late Night and Mailman. Namera is owned
and trained by Norman Turnbull, a one-
time Richmond footballer. He was ridden
a masterly race by S. Warner, and the time
—6min. 11-Jscc. —was a record for the race.
Betting on the Doutta Galla Hurdle saw
Longlands favorite at 5 to 2, despite his
rise of 221 b. for winning the Grand National.
He was a long way back six furlongs from
home, where llenare (4 to 1), who had
been prominent throughout, seemed to have
the best chance. llenare led over the last
jump from Nobility (15 to 1), Valbee (10
to 1), Longlands and Woolpack, Coybeau
losing his rider. Finishing most deter-
minedly, Valbee caught llenare inside the dis-
tance and passed the judge half a length
clear of the All Black gelding, Nobility
(s’s) being next and Longlands a good
fourth. It was a most impressive perform-
ance on Valbee’s part, and he looks like turn
ing out a first-class hurdler, though, oddly
enough, he has been left out of the V.A.T.C.
Australian Hurdle. Nyangay’s rider, W.
Mclnnes, had the mount.
A hot favorite in Plunderer (2 to 1)
scored easily in the Trial Hurdle. He is by
Violoncello—Court Martial, and is only a
three-year-old. Young horses have done
well this season over the sticks. Another
2-to-l favorite in Strath Bligh, who
fenced in faultless style, made an exhibition
of a field of moderates in the Footscray
Steeple. Like Valbee, he wasn’t nominated
for the big event at Caulfield.
There were only two flat races on the
programme. The Lawn Handicap, a six-
furlongs affair, was won, rather luckily, by
the speedy St. Anton filly Lady Beth (8 to
1), who led all the way, but at the finish
was only a neck to the good of Farrago (12
to 1), who struck all sorts of trouble. Ashley
Reed rode Lady Beth, who was clocked at
lmin. 12fsec. —a smart gallop. In the July
Handicap there was a plunge on Horrie
Leek’s gelding Greenway (9 to 4), but old
Smoke Bomb (7 to 1) beat him by a couple
of lengths, Greenway being, as usual, slow
to find his feet. Harbinger (8 to 1) was a
good third.
:Js * * ❖
The meeting at Moorefield (N.S.W.) on
Saturday was dismal in point of weather,
and favorites went down with disheartening
regularity. A £5OO mile handicap was the
principal attraction. Backers voted it a
race between First Acre (5 to 2) and
Mullabawn (3 to 1), but both ran wretch-
edly ; Mullabawn, indeed, was a bad last.
Lucy Thrice (10 to 1). on the other hand,
came from last (at the seven furlongs) to
MAIST EXTR'ORDINAIR.
THE McHAGGIS (having completed his round ): “Ye canna change thrippence, laddie?
Then, hoo the deil dae ye expect me tae gie ye a gr-r-ratuity?”
first, giving the improving Lord Romeo (14
to 1) and Nandillyan (10 to 1) a good
start and a beating in the straight. The
smallest bit of stuff trained at Randwick,
and all grit, Lucy is now prepared by Jack
Kelso, who has got . her looking remarkably
well. Jimmy Pike’s young brother rode her.
Luddenliam disappointed again in the
Moorefield Handicap, for which he was fav-
orite at 3 to 1. The big. clumsy fellow could
not manage the turns, and Nan Ivourgan (7
to 2) beat him handily, although he
accounted for everything else. Magician,
the third horse, should do better shortly—it
was the first glimpse of form he has shown
for a long time. Lord Romeo may also be
worth following, and Markdennis, winner of
one of the two-year-old races, at fours, is
another likely customer. By Crowdenms —
Marquet, he is a gelded half-brother to two
useful horses, Egerton and Edgardo.
* * * *
“Let Go” : “Talkin’ o’ clerks,” said Bags,
the unregistered bookie, "I picked up a
beaut wunst. A storekeeper put me on ter
’xm —said ’e’d worked in the post office. Jest
before the first race it starts ter rain. Busi-
ness was pretty brisk, but wot with tryin
ter ’old up a umbreller an’ jottin’ down bets
with a indelible pencil, the clerk soon ad
the book like a pakapu ticket. Presently
I asks ’im ’ow much we has ter pay out. on
the favorite. ‘Nine thousan’ four ’undred an’
twenty-seven,’ he' says. ’E’d bin addin’ up
the numbers o’ the tickets.'
... ❖ *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:
Flying Handicap: Colmera; next, Less
Noise. .
Canterbury Handicap : Prime Don; next,
Magician.
Club Welter: Pigeon Pie; next, New Fire.
* * * *
“Jack Point”: “Ula” (B. 20/6/’2B) ex-
presses the belief that Mollison won’t stay,
and in support says that his dam, Molly’s
Robe, was purely a sprinter and that his
sire, Seremond, hasn’t proved himself a
progenitor of stayers. Molly’s Robe did bet-
ter in sprints than in longer races for the
simple reason that she didn’t start in nearly
so many of the latter, her size and the
weights she would have got being against
her. Nevertheless, she won up to a mile and
three furlongs at w.f.a. in Bananaland, and
her record of 2.18 i was the best Australian
time for several years. It was made at
Ascot (Q.) in a w.f.a. race when she was
a three-year-old. Her sire, Syce, sired many
winners over all distances in Queensland;
his stock won Guineas, Derbys and Legers
galore. As for the statement that Sere-
rnond’s stock don’t stay: Serelot and Sere-
mist are Derby winners (the latter won
his blue riband on a sprint preparation) and
\Varwick Gun was one of the best true
stayers seen in Bananaland, albeit his dam
was purely a sprinter. Dozens of other
Seremonds have won over middle distances,
including Oranian at Randwick. Anyway,
a real champion, such as Mollison promises
to bo, is generally at home any distance up
to a mile and a half in w.f.a. and classical
races.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Stadiums, Ltd., had to cancel the Sydney
match arranged for Harry Mason, the Eng-
lish lightweight, on Saturday night, Mason
having hurt himself in an exhibition on the
Wednesday; and fell back on natty Teddy
Murton, also of Fogland. Murton, who
scaled 9st. 41b., had Jack Emmerton. (9st.
Tlib.) for opponent. Emmerton’s seconds
threw in the towel at the close of the 13th
unexciting round.
* * * *
“O. W. Wadham” : Jack Ileoney, who hopes
to have a scrap prior to the commencement of
brother Tom’s bout with Tunney on July 26,
received only one really solid hiding during
his M.L. career. This was administered by
Brian McCleary in 1923. After the fight
McCleary invited the battered Heeney to
“bring along your big brother next time.”
Tom duly arrived, but the bout that resulted
proved disastrous for McCleary.
Clarence Eklund (12st. 121 b.), a mild-
looking old gent., made his bow at Melbourne
on Saturday, having Clete Kaufman (12st.
91b), a younger Yank, to assist him in his
exhibition. Clarence is a clever entertainer,
and doesn’t resort to simulated ruffianism
to produce his thrills. He soon had the
crowd roaring at his speedy application of
holds, chief among which is a spectacular
double j arm scissors, applied with the legs.
Clete, an energetic youngster, proved an
excellent foil for the old ’un, though in-
clined to overdo his facial contortions. He
attacked mainly with head-locks, but the
veteran was never in serious trouble. Clar-
rie’s leg work was really skilful, and in the
fourth round he had Clete tied up in a splits
that gave the youth no end of trouble. In
'the sixth, a;ftefr scoring repeated head-
locks, Clete dashed in confidently for the
kill, but was rudely and heavily tripped.
Climbing uncertainly to the perpendicular,
he was again floored with a thud that could
be heard in the most distant seat. He was
carried groaning to his corner, where he de-
cided that he’d had enough.
Footbrawl
The meeting of Carlton and Richmond in
Melbourne on Saturday was spoilt by a high
wind and the luck of the toss. The wind
gave the Tigers an advantage of seven goals
in the flrst quarter and then died away.
Carlton strove gamely, but Richmond’s better
marking and cleverer handling gave them no
hope and they went down finally by 26
points—79 to Richmond’s 105. Some 37,000
saw the outbreak. Down at the Pivot the
Melbourne Red Legs strove for three quarters
to keep up with Geelong’s tally. Nine points
to the bad at lemon-time, they saw their
hopes disappearing, but Geelong wilted under
pressure and Melbourne, in a series of do-or-
die dashes, kept the others at a standstill
and accumulated a four-point lead —55 to
51. Essendon, with no lead worth mention-
ing at three-quarter time, swarmed all oyer
Footscray in the last term and ended with
104 to 74. Collingwood, replacing its five
injured men with hefty youngsters, utterly
smashed Fitzroy’s anticipations of victory
by annexing 99 points to the Maroons’ 54.
St. Kilda, kicking eight goals in the last
quarter, pulverised South Melbourne by 121
to 70; and Hawthorn lost once more, purely
by rotten kicking, the victors this time be-
ing North Melbourne—69 to 65, ’Wood is
still on top, level with Melbourne, but with
a much better percentage; Richmond is next,
with one win less; ’Don is fourth, with one
win more than Carlton. However, the Blues,
with a better percentage and easier games
in prospect, still have a chance.
* * * *
“Genung”: I read that the expenditure of
the Dimboola (Vic.) football club ran into
thousands of pounds last year and that a
coach received something like £lO a week.
It set me thinking of the days, 30 years
ago, when I played with that team. There
was no money in the game then but lots of
fun. We bought our own boots and provided
our own jerseys, which varied from white
woollen sweaters worn by the bank clerks
to wheat sacks, with holes for heads and
arms, worn by the cocky boys. Fisher Marks
and Alf Marks, aboriginals from the Ant-
werp mission station, were members of the
team. They played in their bare feet, were
very fleet, very elusive and kicked splendidly
—till they received a few kicks on the shins.
After that they were useless. I remember
once when a team from the mission station
was playing our crowd on, the Dimboola
ground how excited the abo. barrackers be-
came because their team was leading a few
minutes before the end. I can still see one
of them, with a yard of shirt hanging out,
half way up the goal post, yelling, “Ring
der bleddy bell! Ring der bleddy bell!”
% ❖ ❖ $
“Adelaide”: Football in Adelaide is in a
queer position. At the start of the season,
the clubs were widely, almost officially, ad-
vised to put more ginger into their play,
otherwise they would get left —as last season
—-by both Vic. and Westralia. They took
the advice, and one result was a drawn
game with Vic. But club matches have got
so vigorous that indignant citizens write to
the papers saying that they won’t attend any
more unless unfair violence is stopped. The
umpires are freely blamed for losing control;
but an umpire told by newspaper critics—
now mostly old players, famous in their day
—that he is no good gets less respect than
ever from the players next time; and so the
trouble goes on.
(Continual on prir/r 41.)
The Tour de France was won again br
Frantz, winner last year; Leducq was sec-
ond. Our Hubert Opperman came 18th, his
aggregate time for 3375 miles being 202
hours 3min. 23see. Watson was 28tfi and
Osborne 38th; Bainbridge, the other member
of the team, was eliminated at Marseilles.
Under the conditions our men never had a
chance.
ICHABOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Duke of Gloucester, the King’s third son,
has made the first appearance of any member of the
Royal family in a race under Jockey Ciub rules, tie
rode in a Selling Plate at Salisbury.”
Time was when Royalty rode forth
In ironmongered elegance,
By doughty deeds to prove its worth
With shining sword and pennoned lance.
Those days are gone for good (eheu !).
See how it fares forth, up to date,
On top of a dejected screw,
To figure in a Selling Plate!
It’s that which hurts; if Gloster rode
in points-to-points, like Brother Ned,
And gees of good repute bestrode,
No carping word would e’er be said.
But, spare me days, it takes the bun
To think he’d waive his high estate
Amid the eatsmeat crocks that run
Obscurely in a Selling Plate!
An age it is when hind and kerne
In sport with duke and marquis mix,
But isn’t this enough to turn
The loyal into Bolsheviks?
In any other race we’d like
To greet you at the starting gate ;
But, Prince, it gives us all the spike
To see you in a Selling Plate.
N.s.w.
Swing the Boot.


‘Acknowledged Leaders in the SPORT World
The Largest and most Comprehensive Displays of
GUNS and RIFLES
Showing in all Australia to-day!
SHOOTING is one of the oldest and foremost departments of Mick Simmons'
great store; and is known to sportsmen the length and breadth of Australia.
Here are represented the leading English, American and Continental Manufac-
turers of Firearms. A huge purchasing power and exceptional facilities for
handling large quantities also enable Mick Simmons to offer every line at an
infinitely lower price.
GUN AND RIFLE
REPAIRS
Years of experience, skilled
workmanship, and the use of
only the very highest quality
materials, empower Mick
Simmons to give an un-
equalled Repair Service.
Remember, however small the
job, a fully-qualified armorer
handles your damaged Gun
or Rifle.
Charges are the lowest prevail-
ing in Sydney.
m
THE SHOOTING
CATALOGUE
AND GUIDE
A complete, profusely illus-
trated price list of Mick
Simmons’ comprehensive
stocks. It also contains authen-
tic information and interest-
ing data of interest to the
zealous Sportsman.
Copy post jree on request.
DOUBLE-BARREL SHOT GUNS
No. I—GREENER D.8.8.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.
Treble wedge, fast action, rebounding,
Siemen’s special steel barrels, both full
choke; shooting guaranteed; splendid
pigeon gun.
30in. 32in. barrels.
£22 £22/10/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 16—THE CERT D.8.8.L.
GUN, 12G.
Top lever, 30in. steel barrels, left choke,
extension rib, rebounding locks, pistol
grip, walnut stock; weight,
about 71b
With X Bolt, £3/15/-
Carriage Paid.
£3/3/-
No. 6—HOL L I S’ “THE
RELIABLE” D.8.8.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.
Top lever, 32in. Siemen’s steel barrels,
both choke, side action, A and D action,
automatic safety bolt, Deeley edge, patent
fore-end, Greener cross bolt, chambered
for 2 fin. cartridges; guaranteed for all
smokeless powders; weight, about
7*ib £2l
Carriage Paid.
No. 18—THE CERT. D.8.8.L.
GUN, 12G.
Steel barrels, left choke, extension rib.
bar locks, pistol grip, plain
finish; weight, about 71b.. . XO' A / O
With X bolt, £4/5/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 3
HOLLIS’ “THE RELIABLE”
D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G.
Top lever, bar action, 32in. steel barrels,
both choke, rebounding locks, X bolt,
snap fore-end, half-pistol grip, walnut
stock, chambered for 2fin. cartridges,
guaranteed for all smokeless
powder; weight, about l\\h. £l3/10/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 27— AMERICAN D.8.8.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.
32in. barrels, both choke, bar locks, top
lever, X bolt; tested for nitro;
weight, about 7|lb £S 5/-
Carriage Paid.
df
SINGLE-BARREL SHOT GUNS
No. 5 -BROWNING AUTO-
MATIC SHOT GUN, 12G.
Slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system; magazine holds
five cartridges; weight,
about B£lb. £B/8/-
Carriage Paid.
No. I—HARRINGTON &
RICHARDSON’S 5.8.8. L.
GUN, 12G. or 16G.
Top action, self ejecting, steel barrel,
solid, case-hardened, pistol grip, wal-
nut stock; weight, about /
6*ib : 50/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 1-AMERICAN 5.8.8. L.
GUN, 4XOG.
Top lever, Siemfen’s steel barrel,- 28in.
solid case-hardened rebound-
ing lock; weight, about 4-alb. OU/"
Carriage Paid.
WORLD-FAMOUS SPORTING RIFLES
No. 4—BAYARD BOLT-ACTION RIFLE
22-cal., for short, long or long-rifle cartridges. Take
down, with safety bolt; 20in. round barrel;
weight, about . . . . . 22/-
Postage, 1/6; Other States, 2/8.
No. 17—WINCHESTER REPEAT-
ING RIFLE, 1906 MODEL.
22-cal., 16-shot, 20 in. round barrel,
straight grip, ladder rear sights,
magazine handles I 5 short, 12 long,
or 1 I long-rifle cartridges; weight,
about s£lb
plain trigger,
slide action;
£4/10/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 15—WINCHESTER SINGLE-SHOT
RIFLE, 1904 MODEL.
For 22 short, long or long-rifle rim-fire cartridges; 2 1 in.
heavy round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder
rear sight; length of rifle over all, 37Jin.; plain -- ,
front sight; weight, about 41b 40'
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3/2.
No. 34—BROWNING AUTOMATIC
RIFLE, MODEL 24.
22 short or long rifle; each rifle takes one size
cartridge only; walnut stock, pistol grip, 19Jin.
barrel; length, 36in.; bead front and screw rear
sight, safety bolt; barrel may be dis-
mounted by unscrewing quarter turn; __ ,
weight, 4Jib D 0 -
Carriage Paid.
»unmans
«_
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, Sydney.
1±
AND AT BRISBANE.
“Australia’s Largest Sports Outfitters:
sd


SSsMfisi
H T
111
u
I ■
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. AHERN.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
jOJVC c
In addition to having tremendous
carry the Henley flies absolutely
true and even. Play the Henley
and watch your game improve.
You’ll play with greater confidence
—by far.
Obtainable from, Professionals and Sports
Dealers, or from—
W. T. HENLEY’S TEL. WORKS
CO., LTD.,
83 Clarence Street, Sydney.
205 William Street, Melbourne.
59 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
HENLEY!
MESH MARKING j
GOLF BALL
Footbrawl
The victory of the English League foot-
ballers in the second Test match at Sydney
Cricket Ground on Saturday—they scored
two tries and a goal to nil—was generally
anticipated when the rain set in on b rid ay
night. In the circumstances, the Australian
side was lucky to get off so lightly, since
the Englishmen missed many opportunities
in the second half when they had the local
men at their mercy, while persistent infringe-
ments, particularly in the scrums, also pulled
them up on many occasions. The JN.S.vV.
League having staged several quite unim-
portant matches before the big game, the
players in the latter went out into a quag-
mire of slush, the game suffering as a spec-
tacle accordingly, though it was hard-fought
and exciting. The English forwards and
backs adapted themselves to the conditions,
instead of attempting the impossible task Ol
making the game an open handling one,, as
the home side did. In the second half, when
fairly warmed to the task, the English van-
guard, headed by Sloman and Thompson,
gave a superb exhibition of dribbling, a
method of attack which left most of the oppo-
sition helpless ; the veteran Craig at centre
was an almost solitary exception. Though
they occasionally handled the ball to advant-
age, the English backs were content to keep
the opposing backs on the defence, while
some of them, notably Rees at five-eighth,
showed as much cleverness with the ball at
foot as their forwards. To cap all, Sullivan,
at full-back, gave one of the finest exhibi-
tions of wet-weather work seen in Sydney
League football. His handling, anticipa-
tion and capacity for finding the open spaces
were worthy of Waratah Alec Ross.
The winners’ tries came from a cut through
by the skipper, Parkin, who played finely, in
spite of the fact that his injured thumb was
broken again during the second half, and
from a resolute dash by the big winger, Ella-
by, after the most notable bit of concerted
handling in the match. Sullivan kicked a
good goal from Parkin’s try in the first
half. Though the Australian forwards battled
pluckily, they never seemed to get together,
and made no attempt to profit by the lessons
in ball control which their opponents were
giving them. Following up was ragged also,
and the pack in the loose was a collection
of scattered units and not a combined body.
Individually, Steinohrt and Treweeke played
hard football, though in this respect none
of the vanguard was wanting. The Busch-
Weissell combination behind the scrum did
not function as expected. The opposition
gave the pair little mercy, but Busch was
slow at getting the ball away, while Weissell
was all at sea under the strange conditions.
Still, he defended well and once or twice
gave a glimpse of dashing form. The three-
quarter line was very bad, with the exception
of Craig, who defended doggedly and made
many Attempts to come th, rough too the
attack. Whatever he may be in dry weather,
Gorman proved conclusively that he is no
mudlark. The two experiments on the wings,
Maher and Byrne, were colorless, though
to do Maher justice the position is a new
one to him. Hardy at full back played ex-
cellently considering this was his first game
in the place for some time. He had a hard
time in the second half and stood up to it
well. The much-discussed referee, Deane,
did his work ably, keeping both sides Well
in hand. The crowd, in spite of the rain,
was just under 45,000, and the gate totalled
£4298 3s. 6d.
* * * *
“Billy the Goose” : I see me ole cobber the
manurger o’ the English footballers is kickin’
becos ’is mob ’as been called purfeshunals
by some o’ the flypapers. ’E reckons they’re
orl ’ard-workin’ coves, an’ gits a lot less
gonce than sum o’ the amerchures. I’m
willin’ ter take ’is word fer it, but ’e might
tell a bloke wot ’im and ’is crowd do with
orl the cash they’re rakin’ in. I see their
cut o’ the gate at Toowoomba was eight-
fifty-six, w’ile the mob’s total whack for
the' tour up till then wuz jist under eleven
thousand. Wot with the remainin’ goes in
Kidney. Pie, the shrewdies reckons the stable,
’ll get erway with close on twenty thou.
Mind yer, orl expenses is paid, too. though
I don’t know whether this incloods ’orspital
fees for the blokes on the other side wot
gets their teeth kicked down their throats,
accidental. If orl these sports is amachures,
’oo’s goin’ ter pouch the brohzo?
* * * *
“Gate” : The League match at Newcastle
(N.S.W.) between the local team and the
English professionals was useful propaganda
for the Rugby Union, which is again strongly
established on the northern coalfields. Even
such an Olympian and aloof critic as the
Sydney Herald remarked on the fact that
the hooting to which the crowd subjected
the visitors after the game “was understood,
though not excused.” The same journal
notes that “theirs was the major share in the
illegalities” which resulted in one Newcastle
man and two Englishmen being sent off
the field for foul play. One of the Britons
had previously suffered a similar experience
in the side’s opening match at Cootamundra,
when he was ret.red on a charge of kicking
an opponent in the mouth. The visitors were
hard put to it to win on this occasion—
they got home by 19 points to 17.
❖ * * *
The Rugby Union in Sydney was busy
last week with the Country Carnival, at
which some half dozen teams from outside
the metropolis mustered. The Rugby Union
Cup was won by Newcastle district from
New England after a game full of good
football; Malcolm, the Waratah and New-
castle half, was really brilliant. On Satur-
day, a combined Country side met Glebe-
Balmain at the University Oval, and, show-
ing a fine capacity for dribbling, won by
17 to 14. The N.'S.W. team to play Vic-
toria at Melbourne next Saturday, includes
four countrymen—Malcolm, Burke (also of
Newcastle and a really good fullback),
Munsie from the N.W. and Ireland of New
England, both dashing forwards.
The Union grade matches were respon-
sible for some good football. The Y.M.C.A..
throwing the ball about attractively, beat
Manly by 16 to 13. After leading by 6 to
5 at half-time, Randwick succumbed to
Eastern Suburbs by 14 to 11. Cook played
a good game for East on the wing, and
Westfield was very sound as full-back for
Randwick. St. George made a good fight
against Western Suburbs, going down 21-9.
University had an unexpectedly close call
with Northern Suburbs, winning 11-6; each
side scored two tries. In Lync, the Nor-
therners have a winger of high promise.
Racquet and Bawl
The Australian women’s tennis team
played a match against England on Wight-
man Cup lines last week and triumphed by
four matches to three. Daphne Akliurst won
both her singles, beating Eileen Bennett
and Mrs. Watson in straight sets. Esna
Boyd went down in her game with Mrs.
Watson and won from Eileen Bennett. The
men made an inglorious showing against the
Frenchmen at Paris, losing two of the three
singles matches and the doubles. Hopman
was the only winner for Australia, beating
Aron 3-6, 6-0, 75. At Copenhagen, Cum-
mings was beaten by the Danish champion,
Ulrich, while Moon downed Axel Petersen.
* * * *
“Baseline”: Following on their match with
France, Patterson, Crawford and Hopman
will play Germany at Berlin on Friday and
Saturday next, and Belgium at Knocke on
July 25 and 26. The two N.S.W. youngsters
with Cummings and Moon will then tackle
Czechoslovakia at Prague ton August 1
and 3, and will finish the European tour in
a tournament at Hamburg from August 14
to 19. According to the cables, an English
team is likely to be sent to America in the
coming autumn, and may be able to figure in
the Australian championships.
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The Australian
Tennis Association is so fired with the profits
THE NINETEENTH HOLE.
made from the French tour that it is broad-
casting invitations to all and sundry. In
addition to Tilden, who is considering the
trip, Helen Wills is also said to be likely
to put in-an appearance, as well as De Mor-
pugo, the Italian crack. An attempt is also
to be made to get Coehet, Brugnon and
Landry. The visit of some or all of these
people would no doubt benefit Australian
tennis, but there is such a thing as giving
the public too much of a good thing. There
were eloquent empty spaces in the seating
accommodation on the various tennis grounds
towards the end of the French tour. In
more than one centre the overfed public
stayed away with some enthusiasm, in spite
or hastily lowered prices and heartrending
advertisements of the dreadful fact.
* * * *
“Spar Up” : The settlement of accounts in
connection with the tour of the French tennis
players is causing some acerbity between the
State associations and the Federal body.
The latter avers that the States are charg-
ing every possible item up against it, and
a lot that are impossible. The States in
reply want to know what the central body
SQUARE AN’ ALL.
BUNKER: “He knows the ropes all right.
HUNTER: “How’s that?”
BUNKER: “Well, he’s an amateur boxer!
is for, anyway, and accuse that august
assemblage of a marked inclination to make
them carry every possible unwanted infant.
Probably they will cut about even, for both
sides have their collective weather eye skinned
when it comes to finance.
* * * *
“Spare Renshaw” : A suggestion has been
made in England that Helen Wills and Suz-
anne Lenglen should be permitted to meet
for a deciding tussle, the tin gods of tennis
waiving, for the occasion, the question of
Suzanne’s professionalism. It is improbable
that the match will come off. Helen has im-
proved out of sight since they last met, and
has been playing first-class tennis for months
on end. Suzanne, no chicken, with all
respect, hasn’t had a game in first-class com-
pany since the bottom fell out of the short-
lived professional boom, and is not likely
to risk her unbeaten record in such circum-
stances.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Miss Mashie”: So the open spaces of
Central Australia, where the associate mem-
ber is hot, are calling “Colonel Damurize’’
(B. 11/8/’2BL Presumably the old gentle-
man’s excuses for his chronically rotten
game will now be camel hoof-marks on the
greens, sandflies swallowing his ball in mid-
air, or willy-willies whirling his putter from
his hand just as he was about to sink a
fourteen-footer. The Colonel should remember
that, with a steadily increasing number of
the progressive sex taking Up aviation, his
chances of a game free from their disturbing
presence will grow small by degrees and
beautifully less. He is likely any day to
bo forced to play with some sweet young
thing who has Hiuklered out to the centre
of the continent in an endeavor to find links
free from tottering octogenarians. And he
will undoubtedly b.e forced to suffer the in-
dignity of a lubra caddie —what else could
he expect from a place named Alice Springs?
* * * *
“Fanny Fitzcray”: If that old wretch
“Colonel Damurize” was passing through
Melbourne last week on his way to Alice
Springs (B. 11/7/’2B), he must have become
a cot case. A team of Victorian women
plavers, matched against a side of Victorian
professionals, beat the latter by seven games
to one in the singles, and drew 2-2 in the
foursomes. They were given a handicap, of
course, but the game was playied in a
howling gale; in spite of that the gilds
came home “on their heads.” So there, now !
* * * *
“Claypan”: The Queensland open golf
championship was won last week at Brisbane
by the Victorian amateur Ivo Whitton. The
match was played on the Royal Queensland
course at Eagle Farm, the winner’s score
being 296. The feat was a fine one, for
there was a big entry of topnotch profes-
sionals and amateurs, including Tommy
Howard, who won last year on the Yeerong
pilly links with a card of 286. Whitton
himself was successful as long ago as 192 h
at Yeerongpilly. Sinclair, of N.S.W., who
won the title in 1925 as an amateur, was
second on this occasion, after tieing with
the winner on the morning round. In the
afternoon, Whitton returned a 73 to 74 by
Sinclair. A. R. Spence, the Queensland pro-
fessional, was in third place with 304, and J.
It. Radeliffe, Queensland’s amateur champion,
fourth with 305.
* * * *
“Baft'y”: The Yerongpilly Cup, an annual
event promoted by the Brisbane Golf Club,
drew a huge entry this year, and resolved
itself into a marathon event, the first players
starting before the local worms had fairly
got to bed. The field included most of the
leading local and southern
players assembled for the
subsequent open champion*
ship, and was won by ,Colin
Thompson, who last year
took the Darling Downs
championship from a strong
entry. Thompson, handi-
capped at minus two, re-
turned a card of 151, his
game being notable for
steadiness rather than bril-
liancy.
* « *
“C orbi e” : The golfing
crow, so often referred to in
these columns, seems to be
developing into as great a
curse to out-back golfers as
the sooty fowl has proved in
the past to slieepbreeders.
In one week, from centres
as far apart as Wentworth
and Forbes (N.S.W.), stories
of their devastating activities
have been reported. At
Wentworth, one golfer has
solved the difficulty by train-
ing his fox-terrier to gallop
after the shot and sit on the
ball till he comes up. So
far he has been able to beat
the crows to it. At Forbes, where seven balls
were carried off in half an hour, members
are considering the question of adding a
shotgun to their kit of tools. The trouble
ia that the crows usually operate out of
range, so something in the nature of a
piachine-gun battalion of fore-caddies seems
to be the only solution—either that or the
invention of a golf ball which will prove
repulsive even to crows.
sis * * *
“Budge”: “Hoylake’s” par. on the absence
of seaside courses in Australia (B. 20/6/’2B)
is not correct as regards Melbourne, there
being a chain of well-established links all
round the Bay. Let me name a few: Gee-
long, Barwon Heads, Queenscliff, Sandring-
ham, Patterson River, Woodlands, Franks-
ton (2), Mornington, Mount Martha, Flin-
ders, Rye, Sorrento and Portsea.
’ * * Sl! *
“Quorn”: Adelaide golfers are rejoicing
in a miniature course which has been estab-
lished in a city building. Many of them
repair thither during the day to keep their
eye in. The place is cunningly fitted with
painted scenery, and after an unusually good
whack which goes at least six feet into the
net in front, it is easy to come away with
the delusion that the drive has outdistanced
Bobby Jones’s best. The show is being run
by Collinson, the professional, who made a
great reputation in Westralia as an instruc-
tor and player.
$ JjJ ♦
“Ananias, Junior”: As to that golf ball
which struck a player and disappeared, to
be found later in his pocket when he was
reaching for his pipe (B. 20/6/’2B), how
about this one, which happened on a Sydney
course a week or so ago? A player drove off
from the tee and struck a golf bag carried
by a caddie standing to the left of the line,
after which the ball vanished. A second
ball was played, and at the end of the round
tho player went to replace it in the ball
pocket of the golf bag which had been struck.
He found his original ball snugly at home
among its mates. There was no doubt about
its identification, and the incident can be
sworn to by several who saw it, it having
happened at the beginning of a foursome.
The ball must have hit the side of the pocket
and dived under the strapped-down cover,
where it lay doggo, after the malignant
fashion of its kind.
* * *
“Budge”: What would golfers nowadays
think if they could get into an exclusive club
like Royal Melbourne on the terms allowed
in the iast century. In 1891 100 members
paid 15 guineas in lieu of five years' sub-
scription ; the treasurer was the late J. M.
Bruce, father of the Prime Minister. A
year later they were all made life members.
(Continued on next paqe.)


Bottles of 36
Bottles of 100
<a
O
))
YE ASTON
Pure Dried [
Brewers Yeast
Dose
One to four Tablets
Roc*e Tompsitt 8-Co
Clear-eyed, clear-skinned, radiant health and normal
digestion may be yours, however run down you
feel. Yeaston Tablets —pure, living yeast, rich in health-
giving vitamines, will build new health, new life within
your system.
Not in an hour nor a day, for Yeast works in Nature’s
way —gradually. But results are permanent.
Start a course of Yeaston Tablets to-day !
No Drugs! No Chemicals! No Preservatives in Genuine
Yeaston Tablets.
Write for the wonderf nil Yeaston Booldet to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO. PTY. LTD.
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
"A clear spotless
skin denotes health
from within
fs
df
“Nature’s
Corrective
Tonic Food.”
Car and Cycle
“Jacques”: “Ahasuerus” (B. 4/7/’2S)
wants to know the use of “Cannonball”
Baker’s trip of 6693 miles in 61 days, seeing
that the car was specially constructed and
fitted with gadgets beyond the purse of
the everyday car-owner. He also questions
the utility of speed trials at Daytona
Beach. The answer is easy. Manufac-
turers make these tests to find out weak
spots in their machines. If a car can be
driven 6693 miles in 61 days, it is safe to
assume that stock cars built on the same
principles will stand up well under everyday
service. Likewise, the fact that a tyre
is strong enough to survive a speed of 200
m.p.li. on Daytona Beach is proof that it is
not likely to give trouble at ordinary touring
speeds. The same applies to bearings, gears,
transmission and other mechanical details.
Sensational performances have an adver-
tising value, of course, but every car de-
signer knows that they have a high engin-
eering value as well.
* * * *
“Whizz” : Malcolm Campbell, having been
barred by the British Royal Automobile
Club, from attempting to win back the
world’s speed record on the Pendine Sands
in Wales, has selected a nice quiet spot for
the attempt. This is in the Syrian desert,
about 200 miles east of Damascus, where
a straight run can be obtained for many
miles. The surface is hard clay, and the
thronging crowds which are such a nuisance
on such speedways as Daytona Beach are
not likely to be in evidence. The desert is
already traversed by tourist and mail ser-
vice cars which work up to 70 m,p,h„ and
a French escort is to be provided in case
of interference by the local Bedouins, who,
with Ford cars substituted for the noble
steed and the camel of other days, sometimes
hold up the services. A pity Campbell had
to go to foreign territory for his attempt. He
could have found an ideal spot for his at-
tempt on British soil in the dried-up lake
bed of Pcrkolilli in Westralia, already
famous for some record-breaking speed feats.
“Wallaby”: A motor tour of interest to
the everyday car owner was that recently
undertaken from Sydney to Adelaide and
back, via the Prince’s Highway and Mel-
bourne, by a party headed by Keith Gibson.
There were 13 tourists in two cars, a 14-
h.p. Bean and a Hudson super six, but
no ill luck resulted from the ominous num-
ber. The distance covered was 2581 miles,
and the tour lasted 25 days. Both cars
were heavily loaded with camping-out gear
as well as passengers. The only casualties
were a broken shacklebolt and four punc-
tures.
“Rigalt”: “Spare Wheel” (R. 4/7/’2B)
tells us that the Ellice Islands tail the list
of automobile-owning countries with two
cars. From my own experience I can assure
him that Nauru has only one car, and that in
St. Helena, Ascension Island and Tristan
d’Acunlia there are none. In St. Helena cars
are actually prohibited owing to the appal-
ling roads.
❖ :!: ft
“Richmond”: Victorian wheelmen are ex-
cited over the report that the Dunlop Tyre
Go. has cabled to the French riders Nicholas
Franz and Andre Lcducq, who have been so
prominent in the Tour-de-Francc race, ask-
ings their terms to come to Victoria and
compete in tin; Grand Prix there next
October. Franz won the big French event
last year and was second in 1924 and 1926:
Leducq is the present cycling champion of
France, and was world’s amateur champion
in 1924. Much will depend on whether the
French cycle firms for whom these men ride
will consent to release them, but as the
Continental road season will be practically
over by October, it may be possible, though
there is a lot of racing under cover ini
Europe during the winter.
Miscellaneous
“Blade Sight": The shoot for the Kola-
pore Cup, the Empire rifle match at Bisley,
resulted in a win for Britain —its first vic-
tory since 1923. The winners’ total was
1094, Canada coming next with 1085 and
Australia third with 1083; India, Jersey
and Guernsey followed in that order. Britain
led at all the stages: 300. 500 and 600
yards. Pavey, the Australian, had the best
individual score —144 out of 150, including
a possible at the 500. where, with his
sighter, he reeled off 11 consecutive bulls.
“F.'S.” : Five miscues on the last day spoilt
what chance Clark McConacliy, the Maori-
land champion, had of beating Walter Lin-
drum in their Melbourne match. McConacliy
favors a cue of his own architecture which
lias a bevelled end, much smaller than the
orthodox. He was within 59 of Walter when
that young man’s score stood at 13,179, and
at the final 14,000 he was only 457 behind.
Lindrum is talking of following his brother
to England, taking McConacliy as partner.
“Pot the White”: Billiard players the
world over will rejoice at the news that com-
position balls in future will replace ivory
in the British professional billiard cham-
pionships. The stubborn adherence of the
English authorities to the variable ivory
ball has been a great handicap to overseas
players, for the eccentricities of the ivory
are accentuated in such climates as South
Africa and Australia, and have long caused
the abandonment of it in local play. The
leading composition makes are unassailable
in this respect, and the adoption of a uni-
versal ball will make it unnecessary to
undergo a special course of practice with
“the ivories” as a preliminary to competing
for the blue ribbon of English billiards.
Incidentally, the change will do much to
arrest the threatened extirpation of the lordly
elephant, whose tusks have been utilised
from time immemorial for the manufacture
of billiard balls, the chief use to which they
have been put industrially.
* * ❖ i!«
“No. 3”: The British Army polo team,
which starts on its return journey to India’s
coral strand on Monday, has won golden
opinions during its brief stay in this country.
On strange ponies and slower grounds than
they have been accustomed to in India, the
soldiers have taught the best of the local
men valuable lessons in ball-control and stick-
work, while their finished horsemanship has
been the admiration of everyone. They were
defeated twice —by Harden (N.S.W.) and
the Bohemians, a Victorian combination. A
star among the Bohemians is Winter Irving,
who, though handicapped by the loss of his
left hand, showed remarkable control of his
mounts for the winners, in addition to play-
ing a first-class stick.
“Hide Off”: A sign of the times is the
notification of a retired Indian Army officer
that he has started a polo-instruction and
horsemanship school in Sydney, with classes
for adults, boys and women, the instructor
supplying the ponies. The move deserves
support, for the practice of polo is likely to
turn out a better type of gilded youth of
both sexes than jazz and its concomitants.
Then the breeding of polo ponies is an indus-
try with fine possibilities.
“The Gaffer”: The results of the English
athletic championships do not flatter the
Australian entry, though our lads had less
time for preparation than the South Afri-
cans, who did well. Our best performance
was Whyte’s third in the mile in 4min.
22 3-ssec.; the event was won by English-
man Ellis Thomas in 4min. 20 4-ssec.
Watson did no good in the 120 hurdles, in
which the South • African, Atkinson, put up
a record with 14 7-10 secs. Hyde had to
drop out of the four miles with cramp, and
Jim Carlton was unplaced in his heat in
the 100, annexed by I.egg, another South
African, in 9 7-10scc. The quarter and half
miles went to the English flyer, Lowe ; and
the German, Weichmann, was responsible
for breaking evens in the 220, his figures
STAN. EDWARDS, winner of the Mel-
bourne C.C. rifle championship and
ten King’s prizes He is an ambidex-
trous shot, and plays golf with either
hand.
being 21 7-10 see. The outstanding per-
formances were the long jump of 24ft. 2 fin.
by De Boer, a Hollander, and the javelin
throw of 222 ft. 9in. by S. A. Lay, the
Maorilander, who beat the world’s record
of 220 ft. 11l in. put up by the Hungarian,
Szepes, at the same meeting last year.
“Old Q.”: The best performance by an
Australian at the English athletic cham-
pionships was the 22ft. lOfin. long jump
of Walter Harrison, the Queensland Rhodes
Scholar, now at Oxford, though it was not
good enough to win. Harrison started his
athletic career at All Souls’ school, Charters
Towers, and continued it at Queensland
Uni. A brother, Jack, is also a fine all-
round athlete; in addition to sweeping the
board at the inter-collegiate spots at Bris-
bane this season, he won the half-mile at the
inter-’Varsity meeting at Sydney in the
good time of lmin. 59sec.
* * * *
“Rewolf” : Can bowlers quote an instance
to beat this? In a singles competition held
in North Queensland one of the matches
required 39 ends before either player reached
31, final scores being 31-27. Only once in
TOM LAWTON , the Queensland, Oxford
and Waratah. five-eighth, acclaimed by
British critics the best, man seen in the
position for many years.
the course of the game were more than two
points scored in any head, the great majority
of points being gained one fit a time. In
ray experience" of the game this number of
ends constitutes a record.
* * * *
“Minto”: What is the accepted rule in
Australia regarding a royal routine in a
poker game? In some big English clubs a
player holding a royal routine must decline
to bet, on the principle that his hand is
unbeatable. In others, four twos is adjudged
an unbeatable hand when opposed to a royal
routine. In that case the player holding
the routine could bet as much as he wished,
his hand being no longer unbeatable; the
man noth four twos would bet only to the
value of his hand—reckoning, of course, on
the probability that his opponent might be
holding four of any kind, in which case lie
would be beaten. If he bumped a royal
routine he would win. but no player would
bet to routine heights on the lowest four
cards in the pack.
“Blade”: Joseph Wright, the Canadian
sculler, won the Diamond Sculls at Henley
from the holder. R. T. Lee. In his heat
he defeated another Diamond Sculls winner
in Collett. His time for the final was
Bmin. 24sec., 42sec. faster than Lee’s time
last year. All the same, Wright has done
nothing to equal Pearce’s times or perfor-
mances, and the betting will be on the Aus-
tralian, fit and well, at Amsterdam.
* !i: * *
“Hotliam”: An argument as to the
reasons for Victoria’s continuous failure in
inter-State eiglit-oar races lias been raging-
in Melbourne Age. The once invincible
Blues have not won since 1912; they have
been licked 15 times in 17 starts, and badly
licked, except in rare cases. One school
insists that the failure is due to the in-
ferior calibre of modern Vic. oarsmen;
another is just as sure that the trouble is
due to the inability of the modern Vic.
selector to tell an oarsman from a water-
beetle. Botli seem to have overlooked the
possibility that the easy-going modern
methods of training may be responsible for
the falling off. Westralia has been con-
spicuously successful since the war. It is sig-
nificant that crews from the Swan River
have adhered to the old-time methods of in-
tensive training, with at least two, hours’
steady road work a day, in addition to a
minimum of 25 miles a day afloat, this sec-
tion of the work including strong rowing,
with occasional bursts, and the covering of
the full course at least once in the day. No
one who saw the Westralian eight finish on
the fresh water of the Nepean will deny
that the crew were by far the best-con-
ditioned of the contestants,. To come up to
W.A.’s showing of recent years, rowing men
in Victoria and other States will have to
settle down to an equally long and honest
preparation.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“John Pip”: Melbourne shellbacks limped
down to the Hobson’s Bay Dock . Co. at Wil-
liamstown to see the building of a 64-foot
yard for the Argentine training ship Pre-
sidente Sarminto. Retired skippers say that
this is the biggest job of its kind ever done
in Australia. Although only a few days'
notice was given, the Argentinian commander
was well satisfied when delivery was made.
“Rip”: One point upon which experts
from abroad who have founded industries
in Australia are agreed is that the Aus-
tralian workman has no superior anywhere
for skill and intelligence when once trained
in a craft. The latest testimony on that
point comes from the Camperdown (Sydney)
factory of Henry Disston and Sons, the cele-
brated Philadelphia saw-makers. The knot-
tiest problems in saw-making are encoun-
tered in the fashioning of very large circular-
saws, and up till recently these have been
imported. But the Camperdown factory is
now turning out the biggest saws Australia
has ever seen —monsters Oft. Gin. in diameter,
weighing over 3cwt. This was achieved with-
out installing new or special equipment of
any kind, and the factory feels that it is
entitled to pat itself on the back.
;]: * * *
“R.V.”: If “Kwinana’s”. friend at Ballan
(B. 4/7/’28) is actually drawing light and
power from the Beam as it passes overhead
en route to England, he is doing something
which the concern’s engineers tell me they
have been unable to do. It might be possible
to purloin sufficient juice from the ray to
light a small glow-lamp or an electric torch,
but light and power sufficient for a home is
another proposition. It is to be remembered
that the collecting agency, an aerial wire,
is a tiny obstruction in the course of the
immensely diffused beam —like dipping an
egg-cup into the Pacific.
“Oran” : “A.H.B.” complains (B. 4/7/’2S)
that the Maori is not allowed to sell his land
except to the Government. It was to pre-
vent Ilenare from selling to his own dis-
advantage that the Native Land Courts were
established. Prior to that it was quite usual
for the Maori to sell- an enormous estate for
a few pounds, and this, coupled with the
inevitable dispute touching communal owner-
ship, made the Government decide to take
the whole handling of native lands unto
itself. ’ In the Native Land Courts is argued
the knotty problem of tenure, and the Judge
solemnly decides whether or not the fact
that Hone’s father ate Ilenare’s uncle estab-
lishes Hone’s claim to the property. There
are some mysteries that not even the com-
bined lore of James. Cowan, Elsdon Best
and Edward Tregear could unravel.
“Dinkum”: After a great deal of talk
about the extraction of oil from the leaves
of the ti-tree, a start is being made on the
N.S.W. Northern Rivers. Contracts have
been signed by a Sydney firm with the land-
holders round -Bungawalbyn, on the Rich-
mond, for plucking leaves on a basis of Is.
a gallon royalty, and State trees are also to
be exploited. A dozen stills are to be set up,
and some 200 men employed.
“Lindisfarnc” : Tas. fruit shipments over-
seas tliis season amount to 2,804,46S bushels,
which exceeds the previous best by three-
quarters of a million cases. Fifty vessels
lifted the cargoes; the Trojan Star carried
the biggest lading of 203,193 bushels. This
ship, new to the trade; is a unit of the
Blue Star line, and came from the Pacific
slope in ballast. Six direct shipments were
made to Germany, and 12,000 cases went
to South America. English prices have
not been brilliant, averaging, so far, about
10s. fid. per case. The Speck’s total crop
is estimated at five and a half million bushels.
“John Pip”: The Aneiura, the sailing ship
which has started out as a freight carrier
on the Australian coast, has an almost
romantic history. Built in TJ.S.A. at a cost
of £46,000, she was originally intended for
a rum-runner. Last year she arrived in
Melbourne with a cargo of timber, but was
abandoned by the American owners and sold
by order of the Court to pay port dues,
crew’s wages and other expenses. The Mel-
bourne Salvage Co. bought her for £850.
The vessel has two Diesel engines, with which
a speed of six knots can be maintained and
which can be increased to 11 knots when
the sails are hoisted. No difficulty was
experienced in finding Australian seamen to
cross the Bight under canvas.
❖ ❖ #
“Adel.”: General BirdWood, now Com-
mandcr-in-Cliief in India, has had a gift of
some cases of apples from the town named
after him in S.A. (it was Blumberg in pre-
war days), and has sent a hint in reply: —
There are difficulties in establishing a really satis-
factory trade between Australia and India, but I feel
sure it will come in due time. Especially for dried
fruit there should be a leal market. We see all
the shops here stocked with preserved fruits —from
America.


& M
// I n l
if
ii i
m
P
M
BRITISH
BALLS ROLLER BEARINGS
E 7 RIC TI O N becomes fiction —
when you fit these British Bear-
ings. Unfailing reliability, year in,
year out, has gained for them the
patronage of over 80 per cent, of
British Motor - car Manufacturers.
Made in all sizes to fit British,
American, and Continental Cars.
Exclusive Commonwealth Agents and Distributors —
GARDNER, WAERN S CO. PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE: 481 Flinders Street. SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: Hunter Street West.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: ADELAIDE HARDWARE CO., Flinders St., ADELAIDE.
TASMANIAN AGENTS: W. and G. GENDERS PTY., LTD., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: EVANS, DEAKIN AND CO., LTD., BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE.
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: (Automotive), COVENTRY MOTOR CO., LTD., PERTH.
(Industrial), FLOWER, DAVIES, & JOHNSON, LTD., PERTH.
WM'Jj
S
Mayes’ Australian
Builders and
Contractors’
PRICE. BOOR
Bradically Re-written in. every Branch of
Construction, greatly enlarged., illustrated
and alphabetically arranged.
NINTH EDITION
Price 15/- Posted 15/4
RIGHT UP-TO-DATE. Invaluable for
ARCHITECTS, SHIRE ENGINEERS AND PROPERTY OWNERS.
ESTIMATES FOR
All kinds of House Building Costs, Fitting and Lighting, Wire and other Fencing, Automatic
Closing Gates, Plough and Scoop Work, Tank and Well Sinking, Excavation, Dam Making,
Septic Tanks, Pumps, Windmills, Hydraulic Rams, Tractors, Pelton Wheels, Oil and Other Engines,
Wood Stave Pipes, Boring for Water, Tree Rooting and Logging Plants, Felling and Squaring
Trees and Working of Timber, Pneumatic Tools for all classes of Boring, Drilling and Hammer
Tools. Different Air Compressors illustrated, with prices. Concrete Mixers, Modern Road-making
Plant, Modern Construction Tables for Reinforced Concrete Facing of Buildings (Faence) in
Terra-cotta, Sandstone, Ceramic, etc.
All Building Costs can be checked with the aid of
MAYES’ BUILDERS AND CONTRACTORS’ PRICE BOOK.
GET AWAY FROM THE OLD-FASHIONED
The Book of Australian
Bungalows.
Designed along lines to suit the natural Australian conditions, from the Week-
end Cottage, with its large, roomy verandah, to the substantial suburban House.
The Book of Australian Bungalows contains 90 Up-to-date Plans and Drawings
with estimated cost of construction carefully prepared for each Plan.
The main details are standard throughout, with the idea of having as little
waste space as possible; whilst the elevations have been designed along simple
lines.
Book of Australian Bungalows.
The Work of two leading Australian Architects.
Price 5/- 4d. Postage.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
Bookstall Comer, Castlereagh and Market Streets, Sydney.
SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER-HARVESTER
12ft. Cut.
Self
Propelled.
4-Cylinder
Power Unit
Incorporated.
%
m
■■■
mm
Ms
Cuts Its Own
Tracks.
No Need for
Binder.
No Crop
Wasted.
Will rescue the grain from badly-lodged and thistle-infested crops.
A fair day’s work = 40 acres in a ten-bag crop.
The cost in fuel = 8 to 10 acres on 4 gallons of petrol.
Besides its efficiency in harvesting the standing crop, the Sunshine Auto Header-Harvester does splendid
work as a Stationary Thrasher at the stack.
(
Also the Engine is available for general belt work throughout the year.
Write for descriptive literature, price and particulars of extended terms.
H. V. McKAY PTY, LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
102-105 North Terrace, Adelaide.
Cor. Murray & King Streets, Perth.
H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane


Catanach’s “De Luxe” Watches
You could not choose a better Watch—
whether for lady or gentleman—than a
Catanach “De Luxe” Watch.
They are made by expert Watchmakers
for accurate timekeeping and good, solid,
everyday service!
9!
24.D.L.46 —Catanaeh’s Lady’s “De Luxe” Gold
Watch, 15 Jewels, assorted fancy dials, £5.
£5
24,D.L.7 —Catanaeli’s Lady
Luxe” Gold Wateh, 16
assorted faney dials,
’s “De
Jewels,
£6.
°^ < 3’ in
CM
CO
55 8 o> ra
£5
24.D.L.3 —Catanaeh’s Lady’s “De
Luxe” Gold Watch, 15 Jewels,
assorted faney dials, £5.
sdf
Cor. Royal Arcade
and Little Collins
Street,
MELBOURNE.
“De Luxe” Watches are showing in an
immense range of designs—Ladies and
Gent.’s Wrist Watches and Gent.’s Pocket
Watches. All have 1 5-Jewel Movements
and are guaranteed by Catanach’s.
ORDER BY POST if you cannot call! “De Luxe'’
Watches are obtainable only at Catanach’s.
m ro
[O
32
Choice Diamond Wristlet Watch, £25.
This Exquisite Diamond Wristlet Watch, in ,White
Gold, is showing at Catanach’s for £25.
Many other choice designs in Diamond-set Watches,
some in Gold, Platinum set, others in White Gold,
at prices ranging from £l5, £lB, £2O up to £*s.
Catanach’s are also showing exquisite Diamond-set
Watches with flexible Diamond-set Bracelets, at
£65 to £l3O.
W-McF.
Melbourne
Bill Shakspeare's belief that the breath of
wintry winds is not as unkind as man's in-
gratitude might have been shaken had he
sampled the chill breezes that travelled over
Flemington course on Saturday. The cold
penetrated even the most voluminous and
expensive of fur coats. The v.-r. box was at
intervals crowded with our very best people,
the State Governor being present with Lady
Somers, whose tweed coat and skirt were
worn with a powder-blue felt hat. Visitors
from the Western district included Mrs.
Stuart Black, lately back from Europe, the
Don Moffats and Mrs. A. E. Dunne. Mrs.
Archie Currie was there, a study in nigger
brown ; Mrs. Eric Harrison was one of many
well tailored in black, a style favored also
by Mrs. G. Brooke-Hutchings and Mrs.
Niall. Mrs. James Purves was wrapped in
a kolinsky fur cape. Margaret Gumming
wore an attractive sports, suit—a cobalt blue
coat above a plaid skirt; and Lucy Stog-
dale’s fairness was set off by a trim black
coat and skirt and a felt hat lined with
white. Mrs. Adamson and her daughter
Hester and Dr. and Mrs. Garnet Leary were
others who promenaded the lawns and sad-
dling paddock. Mrs. Claude Grice received
lots of sympathy over her husband's fall with
CRaumont. Mrs. A. V. Kewney was one of
the afternoon’s hostesses.
Tulle figured largely in the dressing
at the annual hop of the Genazzano
Past-students’ Association, held in St.
Kilda Town Hall last week. It pur-
sued its frilled way dipping to back or
sides in waves, or forming a straight fussy
line above the wearer’s ankles—skirts are
being worn much shorter. Shaded pink, blue,
yellow, red, black, white and mauve tulles
were paraded, and all were alluring. Some
beautiful scintillating gowns and a few smart
chiffon frocks leavened the mass. Pale gold
and orange draperies, mingling with roses
trailing over lattice, decorated the hall.
42 hostesses waged a war of extermination
on wallflowers, and accomplished their aim.
The president of the association, Mrs. J. R.
Maguire, professionally known as Dr. B.
O’Keefe, was in black and silver lace, and
carried a bouquet of crimson blosoms. Vice-
president Mary Winter’s original frock of
.japoniea red was traced with Chinese em-
broidery of pinky white lotus blossoms and
gold thread. Geraldine Morris, who shared
the quill-driving for the dance with Miss
M. Brelieny, wore sky-blue tulle frills
attached to a tight bodice, and the other’s
mauve and crystal-beaded frock had a cape-
shaped berthe. Ninette Turck wore a silver
and black head-dress, and lengthy draperies
of black tulle. Alma Simpson was a cheery
contrast in a frock of bunchy rose-pink chif-
fon frills that suggested the ballet. Wilma
Barnard introduced another mode in a
straight-lined frock of grey georgette and
silver tissue.
The folk who have flats in the expensive
and exclusive Cliveden Mansions never have
any difficulty in getting together a big charity
party, and to their credit they do that sort
of thing pretty frequently. One night last
week Mrs. Merson Cooper commandeered the
lounge and dining-room for an entertainment
to help St. Anthony’s Home, and residents
who didn’t favor dancing or cabaret ran
bridge games for the cause in their respective
flats. More than 600 people were there, and
the hostess, who flitted about in a powder-
blue velvet and silver tissue robe, expects to
hand over about £7OO to help the St. Anthony
babies. Artists from the Tivoli and J.C.W.
theatres, including May Beatty and Gus
Bluett, who were heard in potted opera, and
some members of the late Gilbert and Sulli-
van comic opera co.. entertained the guests.
Leona Hogarth, with shaded pink roses
wandering over a black velvet frock, and her
husband, • Leonard Doyle, created a pre-
cedent by appearing for charity before mak-
ing their bow behind the footlights at the
Athenaeum. A song in praise of Australia
was their contribution. Mrs. F. W. See-
kamp, airing a black beaded gown, and Mrs.
C. .T. McCarthy, whose black gown was
hidden beneath a pink velvet wrap, checked
the tickets, and Eileen Byrne, who wore a
frock of crimson velvet, lent aid. Numerous
workers tripled around with raffle tickets,
and others conducted a miniature market in
the vestibule. Marie de Bavay, softly shining
in pink and diamente, and Mrs. Xavier de
Bavay, of the Apple Isle, were among the
sales-ladies. In the crowd were the L. A.
Gollins, the Joseph Fells and their two daugh-
ters, Dr. and Mrs. E. Bailer Allan, T. Lyons
(of Tasmanian sporting fame) and his wife,
the W. Rogers Thomsons and Dr. and Mrs.
Barry Thomson.
The first annual ball of the Big Brothers
was an affair at which the elect rubbed
shoulders with the unknown. The atmosphere
wasn’t exactly cheery, possibly because there
was an absence of decoration, save for an
oasis of greenery surrounding the stage and
the v.-r. carpet. The attendance w'as good.
A group of our very best who formed the
committee clustered about the vestibule to
greet Governor Somers and his lady, who
arrived early. Her Ex., who wore pink with
a tracery of shaded green and rose sequins
and gold beads, received a welcoming posy
from the lion, organiser, Mrs. Allan Spowers,
w'lio was draped in white satin. Valerie
Moule, clad in nattier-blue lace, and Phyllis
Holmes Hunt, wearing berry-red georgette,
were the ticket secretaries. In the vice-
regal party were Captain and Lady Mary
Herbert, the latter in seaweed-pink georgette
and lace, and Air-Marshal Salmond. Among
the dancers were Mayor Morell; the
Mayoress, in black lace; their daughter
Sheila, in pale amber satin; George Fair-
bairn and his lady, she showing a glimmer
of crystal on pale green; the Clarke lady,
sparkling with gold and silver embroidery
beneath a flowing wrap of oyster-grey lace;
General Chauvel and his lady; and Rear-
Admiral Napier and Mrs. Napier, the last-
named in cosmos-pink and silver lace. The
Western district was represented by Mrs.
Cantley Shaw, in vellum-colored lace and
ninon. and Elizabeth Staughton, whose Wedg-
wood-blue frock dangled silk and crystal
fringes. Mrs. Robert Knox, who was a mem-
ber of the committee, wore a coral-pink frock
of flounced moire, a good old-fashioned silken
fabric not often seen in these days. Pretty
Kath Currie’s scintillating white robe was
bound by a pink sash.
At the invitation of Captain A. A. C. Kroef
and John Sanderson and Co., a couple of
hundred people clambered up the side of the
Nieuw Zeeland one afternoon last week to
view this latest addition to the Dutch Packet
Une. Everybody pronounced her to be the
most beautiful and up-to-date ship that lias
breasted the bay. There is a central heating
system serving all the cabins. A swimming-
pool, all marble and blue tiles, is on deck,
thus permitting of sun-bathing. Wood panel-
ling alternated with marble and topped by
scenic frescoes adorns the saloons. There
are some wonderful panels of Dutch tiles
that look at a distance like gorgeous Oriental
tapestries. Above the dining saloon the rail-
ing, inlet with white marble, is decorated
with a regular Noah’s Ark of small animals
carved in wood. Flood lighting is adopted,
and above the music-room door is perched
the Australian coat of arms in color. The
liner's maiden voyage was celebrated with a
regular high tea, to which balloons lent a
gala air. Captain Kroef and his wife shared
hospitable duties with Mr. and Mrs. G. D.
Young, who represented the agents.
The laughing eyes pictured here by Lafay-
ette belong to Anne Fortune, hon. sec. of the
P. L. 0. O 1 cl
Col 1 e g i a n s’
Club, who is
just now re-
joicing over
the acquisition
of really
swanky club
rooms in the
National
Bank’s impos-
ing buildings
i n Coll in s-
street. The
official opening
took place last
week, when
Essie Mollison,
who founded
the club about
six years ago,
hung the por-
tals open and
the president,
Mrs. T. Purves, was hostess. The club,
the first of its kind in this city, off
with 100 members and now boasts over 350.
Amongst those who offered congratulations
were John MacFarland (chairman of the
P.L.C. Council) ; Mr. and Mrs. Gray, of the
P.L.C.: Mrs. J. P. Bainbridge (president of
the club) ; Dr. J. P. Wilson, and Josephine
ratterson, a former teacher. Mrs. John
Lane, Dorothy Wilkins, Mrs. Stanley Osmond
and Leonie Miller entertained with music,
song and story.
In the Town Hall banquet chamber on
Saturday night over 300 jazzed to celebrate
France’s Day. The Alliance Franqaise
sponsored the celebration at which the arrival
of the Consul for France. Rene Turck, was
greeted with the “Marseillaise.” The presi-
dent of the Alliance, Rene Vanderkelen, with
his wife, who wore guipure lace of buff tone,
gave welcome to the official guests, among
whom were Mayoress Morell, whose blue
velvet gown was almost eclipsed by a silver
tissue coat; Sheila Morell, in apple-green;
Madame Turck, in sparkling white gown;
and her daughter Ninette, a contrast in black
tulle. The U.S.A. Consul-General, Arthur
Garrels, was there with his wife, whose
draperies were of white satin. Mrs. T. K.
Ouei, whose husband is Consul-General for
China, wore powder-blue scattered with dia-
mente. Madame Albertine Gay, a vice-presi-
dent of the Alliance, was in silver and black
brocade; and Kath Grounds, sister of the
secretary, was softly arrayed in amber tones.
Dr. and Mrs. Leon Jona, the George Hassells,
Mr. and Mrs. W. Mortill. she in radiance
of white and crystal; Evelyn Moore, of
Sydney, wearing almond-green; Dr. Kit
Playle, and Dr. and Mrs. Charles Finn also
rejoiced over the fall of the Bastille.
Mrs. Reg Ellery, pictured here by Lafay-
ette, has two claims to distinction. She is
the wife of the brilliant young medico of
Mont Park Hospital whose researches in
paralysis have
earned him
world-wide re-
spect, and she
is a pianist of
o u t s t anding
ability. Under
her profes-
sional name of
Mancell Kirby
she made many
successful
appear a n c e s
on the concert
platform. A
Melbourne girl,
sh e received
her training at
the Albe r t-
street Con.
with a final
polishing at
the N.S.W.
Con. under L.
G. Smith. One
of her assets as a musician is a phenomen-
ally retentive memory.
Wattle Park, which is a really happy
inspiration of the Tramway Trust and likely
to become a leading picnic resort, was chosen
for a farewell gathering to Mrs. Britomarte
James, who will represent the Women Citi-
zens’ Movement at the Pan Pacific Confer-
ence at Honolulu. The choice of site was
appropriate, as Mrs. .lames is president of
the Wattle League, whose members recently
planted a grove of the national trees in the
park. Just completed in this spacious re-
serve of hillside and bush lands is a tearoom
built on the lines of a Swiss chalet, with
a piazza in front that overlooks a. lawn and
fountain, while the back door opens upon an
immense oval. Mrs. Alan Monsbourgh, wife
of the architect responsible for the building,
was hostess of the party, the guests including
representatives of many women's organisa-
tions in which Mrs. James has an interest.
Many speakers wished Mrs. James good luck
and a good trip, and there was singing by
Edna Wyatt, Betty Paterson Newman, Mrs.
de Beer and Madame Evelyn Ashley, the
last-named choosing a song in praise of
wattle—music by Mrs. Reynolds Lewis.
Mrs. Ernest Scott, wearing a gown of
golden brown velvet and a fawn ribbon hat,
boiled the billy at the Lyceum Club one
afternoon-last week in honor of Vera Moore,
a young Maoriland pianist who has made
a definite place for herself in London’s
musical world. Charles Schlisky, once
examiner for Trinity College and now of
Adelaide Uni. Con., recognised Miss Moore’s
exceptional talent eight years ago and sug-
gested study abroad. In London she came
under the eye of the late Leonard Borwick,
kindliest and most unassuming of all great
masters of the keyboard, who taught her
until his death in 1925. Several original
manuscripts and other treasured possessions
of Borwuck now belong to his distinguished
pupil. Over the teacups, Mrs. Scott wel-
comed the guest of honor, and Prof. Bernard
Heinze of the Uni. Con. endorsed the com-
plimeuts of the hostess. In the throng were
Uni. Chancellor MacFarland, the Barrett
lady, the Fritz Harts, Mrs. Herbert Brookes,
Mrs. W. M. Finley, Sutton Crow and his
wife, and many other music-lovers. Prof.
Scott joined the party during the afternoon.
Lady Somers, wearing a fur-collared black
coat and a henna felt hat, took tea with
students of the Uni. Con. on Thursday after-
noon. Pianist Jack Simons, soprano Myrile
Wise and Marjorie Schmitt with her violin
gave the brew a musical flavoring. Medical
knight James Barrett and Prof. Heinze
mingled their greetings with those spoken on
behalf of the pupils by Marie Magan, presi-
dent of the students’ club.
Dame Nellie Melba went to the Albert-
street Con. one day last week and besides
giving the students some lessons in vocalism
she corroborated some of the rumors that
have been circulating about her future pro-
gramme. She is leaving for the Big Smoke
in September after giving a farewell concert
here, and she means to appear in opera in
Melbourne before she puts her trunks
aboard the out-going liner. Fritz Hart in-
troduced to the diva’s notice Alban < ecu
Whitehead, a youth with a rare basso voice.
She was much impressed, and promised that
if he could be in London in January she
would take him to Dink Gilly, who taughr
John Brownlee, for a polishing course.
Several of the Con. maidens also received
words of praise and encouragement.
Judging from the laughter that swept
through the Athemeum on Saturday night,
“New Brooms" should make a good clean-
up for the box office. The opening setting
of a front view of a villa, with cushions
invitingly scattered on the porch and a
garden full of blossoming trees, is charming,
and it was made more so at the final drop
by the wealth of flowers given the feminine
principals. Pretty tennis frocks and gowns
of the early spring mode fitted the surround-
ings admirably. Leona Hogarth of the danc-
ing eyes wears a pink georgette frock that
features flounces and a cape, topped by a
shady blue hat; and a pale lyeen organdie
muslin worn by Elizabeth Mears is likely
to be extensively copied by the younger set.
Amongst those who laughed on the first
night were the Colin Frasers, H. H. bmitli
and his wife, Dr. and Mrs. Barry Thomson,
Mrs. Wally Mitchell, Mrs. McAdam and
Town Clerk W. V. McCall and his sister.
The overflow audience at the Town Hall
on Saturday night went to prtove that the
public likes classical music—so long as it is
cheap. The third orchestral concert arranged
by Fritz Hart was most enthusiastically re-
ceived. A star turn was the very fine play-
ing of Mrs. Spry (Violet Ewart) as soloist
in the Bachmaninoff Concerto for pianoforte
and orchestra. Mozart, Schubert, Wagner,
Grainger and other composers were also
drawn upon.
Serious misfortune has fallen upon Elsa
"Warman, an ex-student of the Albert-street
Con., who was a contemporary of Florence
Austral and promised to make as big a name
in the world of song. After long nursing of
an invalid mother Miss Warman has gone
down under the strain, and is very ill her-
self. Her friends and admirers, who include
Dame Nellie Melba, General Monash anil
other influential folk, are endeavoring to
raise sufficient money to smooth her path,
and the response to their appeal has been
gratifying. Hilda Meadows is arranging
a concert at her parents’ home at St. Kilda
on July 28 to aid the cause.
Muratti, winner of the Winter Handicap,
is a horse whose charitable traditions re-
fuse to be shaken off. Ben Chaffey gave him
to St. Vincent’s Hospital as the prize for
a bob raffle. Jack Wren bought the colt
from the holder of the winning ticket for
£lOOO, and has handed over the stake
money—£3s6—won at the Grand National
meeting to the unemployment relief fund.
Hermia Barton ran off with most of the
honors at a concert given by students of
the Uni. Con. last week. The talented girl
draws a good tone from her violin, and
careered through the cadenzas of the Ist
movement of the Tschaikowsky Concerto in
dashing style. Mona Nugent and Ina Lilly-
crap shared the laurels of the singers, and
some young pianists, among them Eileen
Maley and Sybil Balding, played admirably.
The Barry Thomsons’ son Jack, who made
a fleeting appearance with Zillali Bateman
at the Tivoli recently, is to play the parson
in a season of “Outward Bound” in Adel-
aide.
The man who first preached the idea of
Empire unity in trade, Sir Ben Morgan, is
again visiting this city. Twenty years ago
he was with us as Trade Commissioner.
Since then he has forcefully continued his
propaganda and has landed in the chair of
the Empire Producers’ Organisation.
The Colin Frasers are considering another
ocean voyage later in the year. Mrs. Fraser
is Canadian born, so they generally traverse
the big Dominion and inquire into the
family’s well-being before steaming over to
Scotland, where Colin has relatives waiting
to show him points about the royal and
ancient game.
“A.G.M.” from London: —
The Ranee of Pudukota, formerly Mollie Fink, of
Melbourne, came over from Paris with the body of
her husband, which was cremated with full Hindu
rites at Golder’s Green on June 5. The late Rajah
was immensely popular in Paris, where his lavish
hospitality, genial personality, good sportsmanship
and good taste secured him a host of friends. He
had often been described as a true Parisian, and
the chic frocks worn by the Ranee were irfvariably
of his selection. One of the stories told about him
in the gay city dealt with a visit to Ostend, where
he was giving a dinner party. To the director he
said, “I leave the menu to you. Nothing extra-
ordinary, but everything simple and, good.” To
Pudukota’s annoyance a large joint of pork was served
up. On seeing it the Rajah seized the dish and
hurled the unwelcome flesh through the window. A
minute or two afterwards an aged priest approached
the host and, exhibiting his grease-covered clothes,
explained that they had been destroyed by the
missile. The host offered the most sincere apologies
and —£500 for the poor of the parish!


■NS
FINE QUALITY
■S' -fSA O
O
aiiilicino
Jl<»fg
No. 306—£25
//
No. 301 —£31/10/-
7P.<
No. 302—£25
No. 308—£55
No. 300 —£20
No
309—£30
v
No. 307—£65
No. 304—£25
No. 305—£40
No. 303—£4.
The Diamond Rings illustrated above-
represent the finest value offered in
Australia. All the diamonds are set in
pure platinum by Drummond’s ring
experts. Money will be refunded if
not approved of. Illustrated Ring Cata-
logue sent post free to any address.
DIAMOND-AND-PEARL/SPECIALISTS'-
344-346 COLLINS STREET
MELBOURNE
A. SAUNDERS’ CLOCKS
m
I
ES
m
%
A. SAUNDERS’ Solid Oak Mantel Clock,
strikes hours and half-hours on cathedral-
tone gong. Visible pendulum, 8-day movemen.t
37/6
We
Guarantee
Satisfaction
sd
All
Clocks
are Oiled
and
Regulated
Before
Leaving
Our
Showrooms.
k
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
A. SAUNDERS’ Gilded 400-day
Clock, porcelain dial, silent and dust-
proof. Revolving pendulum in glass
shade,
A r
m
A. SAUNDERS’ Bedroom
Clock, solid Oak Case,
Luminous Dial, 20/«
Alarm
17/6
Btr in
A, SAUNDERS’ “Cuckoo” Clock, with chain and
weights. Cuckoo calls every hour and half-hour.
Handsomely carved case, similar to illustration.
25/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
I
To
be
of the
sure
//
look'
nal
or
for
name
WEED
/?
every
On
hook
ALMOST impassable
- roads are made nav-
igable for the truck or
bus equipped with WEED
TYRE CHAINS.
Weed Chains grip and
hold —they furnish the
traction necessary to take
one steadily through soft,
miry mud, sand or clay.
No truck or bus should
ever be without Weed
Chains. Keep them ready
for immediate use when
road conditions warrant.
Orderfromyourdealer.
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
1507
'THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE (.I*, •. •. ~ 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
JOHN JAMESON
* * *
WHISKEY
the J.J. whiskey we sell to-day is
made in Dublin by the old and ex-
pensive Pot Still method—the same
method that we used in 1780. For by
no other process is it possible to
produce the same quite unusual soft-
ness and the generous full John
Jameson flavour.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
* * * *
B. Seppelt & Sons, Limited, Melbourne, Victoria
Perkins & Co., Ltd. .......... Brisbane, Q.
Milne & Co. Perth, W.A.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
A NEW NOVELIST.
Through Beds of Stone
A Novel. By M. L. HASKINS.
[Empire Library.
The story of a girl’s life from
childhood to maturity, and of her
spiritual evolution directed by an in-
ward pressure of conscience, in-
tellectual honesty, and a series of
experiences death, love, foreign
travel, social exploration, and the
War.
ENGLISH MEN OF LETTERS.
New Vol.
Anthony Trollope
By HUGH WALPOLE. ss. net.
The Times : “One of the most delightful
volumes in this distinguished series.... This
is a book for Trollopians to relish, to argue
over, and then to enjoy again.”
1928 ISSUE JUST PUBLISHED.
The Statesman’s Year Book
Edited by M. EPSTEIN, M.A.,
Ph.D., F.R.G.S. With Maps. 20s.
net.
The Daily News: “‘The Statesman’s Year
Book’ is an inexhaustible store of information
about every country in the world, even to the
smallest islands. There are 1520 pages crammed
full of details.”
Theistic Monism
An Answer to the Question ‘‘ls
There God?” reached by deter-
mining the Relation of Mind to
Body. By JOSEPH EVANS, M.A.
1 2s. 6d. net.
The Spectator: “‘Theistic Monism,’ by Mr.
Joseph Evans, is a thoughtful book, and the
chapters on Phenomenalism, on Consciousness,
on Mind, are worthy of study.”
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.


Under-
Royal
Warrant
fs
ToH.M.
Kirt6
George V
| Vintnge 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
HEIMS
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
G»arl£sllcidsie<fc j
PELLIBSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
K9
THE CHEESE FOR EPICURES
Kraft Cheese is uniform and consistent in quality and
flavor. It is wrapped in tinfoil and is not exposed to
the impurities of the air and the dangers of continuous
handling. ,
And it is free from rind. There is no waste whatever.
All of it is eaten.
KRAFT CHEESE IS MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Sold by weight or
in klb. cartons
by all grocers and
storekeepers.
G
m
Made in Australia by
lirajt Walker Cheese
Co. Ply., Ltd., at
Riverside Avenue, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.
7f>p cen/re of Queens/onc/s
d/s/ingu/sfr&a/ Soc/o/ Z/^?.
WoK'l
FtOTQFI
BRISBANE
Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at tlie disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attacnea. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 57 80 —10 Liner
(
WOMAN'S
LETTER
This Letter tips red fiats for the spring.
Vermilion, lacquer, pillar-box, cherry-j-they
occur again and again in all the straws and
sometimes straw mixed with felt. Incident-
ally, lips are to be even ruddier than the
cherry. A close-fitting helmet of soft grey
breast feathers, worn with a powder-blue
coat collared in chinchilla, appeared at a
tea-party the other day. Perhaps because
Margaret Bannerman was a guest there was
a tendency to the velvet turban, as worn by
the fashion-plate actress in some of her
publicity photographs. But. alas for human
short-sightedness! the photographs are
nearly a year old, and Margaret has left
that cut of headgear behind in her stride.
A London fashion-friend says that crystal
flowers and buttonholes are quite new, that
evening shoes in satin -to match the frock
appear at the best parties, and there is a
revival of silver gilt and old paste buckles
among the initiate.
Sydney is enwebbed by the opera. Five
times last week Her Majesty’s was the goal
of the persistent first-nighter; and complete
strangers are getting quite matey. “Manon”
splintered the last sheet of ice, and even
newspaper men and women became almost
genial to one another.
Mrs. .Timmy Burns’s sable wrap, which is
more like a Soviet headquarters carriage-
rug, it is so big, is still a looked;for event.
Joan Norton, too, hanging with strings of
illuminations that turn out to be real
diamonds. “Diamonds all the way,” is the
motto of her bracelets, which are round,
about an inch in depth, and as packed with
diamonds as a tin with whitebait. Mrs.
David Hill and Mrs Sep Levy, in the
stalls, turn the snow-white hair of fair re-
nown to onlookers from the circle. E. G.
Theodore once or twice squired his wife,
cloaked in sapphire blue; and Benno Moisei-
witsch, v with a fair unknown in a leaf-brown
cloak over a gold frock, was another of the
pointed-outs. Mrs. Wunderlich meshes her
soft hair nightly under a gold turban; and
in honor of Toti dal Monte’s appearance as
the Daughter of the Regiment, Elaine de
Chair dangled a pair of long earrings. Lady
de Chair’s cloak of black and gold was faith-
fully guarded by tall, slim and amiable
Captain Penfold, whom the Girl in the Flat
Opposite persists in calling Penholder.
Of pewter grey and pink was the spreading
frock worn by Manon Scavizzi in the second
act, which finds her established very luxuri-
ously with her own furniture, as is the desire
of. the great Paris sisterhood which she has
joined. The dress was of the spreading
Pompadour period, and its full grey folds
opened over a panel of old-rose pink misted
with soft lace; here and there a knot of blue
ribbon helped the soft water-color effeet.
Lohengrin, which, if words have color, is
as blue as a lobelia or the harbor of Cre-
morne in a still winter’s noon, attracted
a circle starred with blue and gold raiment.
Starting at the box on the right-hand side,
where officers from the Argentine training
ship in their blue and gold kept company with
Aurora Rettore in a frock the blue of an
angel s cloak (the sailorinen had the joy of
hearing a country woman as prima donna, for
the Elsa of the night is of the Argentine)
and Louise Hayes Minghetti. There was a
blue glint in the lame worn by the wife of
Justice Hey don in the opposite box. Mrs.
Wunderlich wrapped her powder-blue georg-
ettes in the ethereal blue of a sari given to
her by the once-Rauee Sita Devi. This gar-
ment is sown with blue stars, and might be
taken for one of the Cloths of Heaven that
Yeats writes off. Elaine de Chair’s cloak
was blue. Nan Garvan was wrapped in blue
velvet, another striking cloak of blue was
worn by Mrs. England, and Moisei witsefi
talked between acts to a girl in blue.
As remote as unlikely and therefore doubly
believable is the story surrounded by Wag-
ner's music. How imposing was the stately
Lohengrin in his shining armor;, how guile-
less floated out the voice of Elsa, first in her
spotless white and later when her green train
- pale as water and as fluid—streamed out
behind her as she swept on her knight’s arm
into the Minster!
The Viking, who had literally flown to be
in time for the party; Toti dal Monte, like
some sleek bird, every feather of her plu-
mage smooth ; the dramatic soprano Scavizzi,
Tosca-like in geranium reds and silvers; the
gold epaulettes of Captain Palma, of the
Argentine training bqat Presidente Samiente
—these were among the glittering haul that
the Millions Club spread at the Ambassadors
the other night. President Arthur Rickard
smiled over the table around which these
exotic guests sat in company with a strong
mingling of the club’s tried and trusty.
Among them was the Consul for Costa Rica,
whose Co3ta Rican name is Mulligan. Near
by sat the Consul for Chile, but his name
sounded a bit closer to the Equator. It is
Gundelach. and he brought Mrs. Gundelach.
who wore black satin weighted with bead
embroideries.
With the sweet sadness of Dal Monte’s
Lucia still in their ears, many first-nighters
made their way around to the Dream of
Fair Women (colloquially the Milk-o) Ball.
It was in David Jones’s new dining-hall, and
took its title from the pageant arranged by
Cecil Beaton in London last year. Ethel-
wyn Kirk had designed the costumes and the
setting in which the women from all the
ages who have captured the imagination of
the world lived again a little hour. The
stage was set on the raised end of tin* hall
into which the lifts open. From this the
reincarnations stepped down the two flights
of shallow stairs to the floor level, over
which they paced in stately procession. Very
handsome was Mrs. Arthur McNiven in
the sweeping petunia draperies of Catherine
the Great; Maybelle Markell, a Diana with
two hounds on a leash; an erect and slim
Joan of Arc; Mary Brigham, in the costume
of Queen Anne; Ethel wyn Kirk, like a
George Meredith heroine in swan-like moires ;
and Marjorie Jacobsen, a bewitching Cleo-
patra, were a few in the line of beauties
who started with Mother Eve. Mrs. Nor-
man Lowe, in red-and-gold lame, was
one of i the night’s handsome dressers. Elaine
de Chair, in black lace and silver, arrived
from the opera just about the time father
was departing. Red Cross (it is spelled with
caps.) Mrs. McKinnon and Mrs. Brigham
were at the right and the left of the
King’s appointed; and Helen Pillinger, of
the roseleaf cheeks, was one of the night’s
goodlookers.
Here’s a picture of beautiful Australian-
born Madge Titlieradgc, taken just before she
sacrificed the fairy gold of her hair on the
cold altar of Noel Coward’s “Home Chat.”
After the
play’s sudden
collapse Madge
went to Amer-
ica to take the
lead in Ashley
Duke’s “Pa-
triot,” and it
was in New
York the other
day she mar-
ried Edgar
Park, a New
Yorker whose
other interests
are oil and
piotors. Her
new husband
first saw
Madge when,
as principal
boy in a panto-
mime for some
theatrical
benefit, she in-
terpolated Alfred Noyes’s “Song of the Eng-
lish,” and in a moment had stirred an enor-
mous Covent Garden audience from laughter
to an emotional outburst of which the
American had dreamed an English audience
incapable. The honeymoon is being spent in
Honolulu, and among her bridegroom’s wed-
ding gifts was a magnificent uncut emerald.
The International Ball at the Moore Park
Palais was very well staged. Tile Consulates
had organised sets, and the result was a
stirring pageant. Before each set entered,
scenes in the daily life of the nation which
it represented were filmed. Then, on the
note of interest, in swung gay Spain:
smiling but steel-willed France; Esthonia.
treading softly; Belgium, led by Consul
Segaert’s pretty eldest daughter. From Rou-
mania, from Lebanon, from Siam (notable this
set, led by Mrs. Norman Lowe), from Greece
they came. Elaine de Chair, who was the
night’s Queen of Peace, stood poised on the
dais, holding a palm branch in one hand,
while high in the other she bore an illumin-
ated globe over which the white and blue of
the League of Nations stood guard. The
classic robe and the gold star above her fore-
head made her look like the angel on a
Christmas card, only the wings hadn’t
sprouted. When all the sets had entered the
ring, they dropped to one knee and stretched
imp lor in"!;' hands towards the gleaming vision.
To make a long story short, the Greeks
won the prize; the Lebanese ran second;
Spain third.
Lady de Chair held a reception of the Con-
suls in the vice-regal wigwam, which looked
like a maypole, so entwined was it in ribbons
—a sort of love-knot of the colors of each
nation streamed from it. After the Consuls,
the debs, were greeted; and after that the
affair settled down into a sort of League
of Nations' night out. Green and gold, with
opals and a green-feather fan, were the super-
stition-flaunting rig of Lady de Chair. Her
guest, Mrs. Busby, wore glittersome black,
and the wife of Major Longfield Lloyd, who
was on guard, wore one of the new caped
frocks in pink georgette.
Hero's the pretty youngest bud of the
president of the Actors’ Federation, Walter
Baker. Her name is Olga, and because act-
ing and the stage are in her blood she follows
the footlights.
For four years
now she has
toured Asia
with a comedy
com p a n y.
Ind i a an d
C hina have
seen her as
Julia Price in
“The G host
Train” ; at one
performance of
this thriller in
Simla she
played before
the Viceroy,
the Governor
and his lady
and three re-
s plen dent
r a j a h s.
Daphne Leigh,
which is
Olga under her
professional name, works hard. She plays
in “No, No, Nanette” at the matinee, and
switches to “The Ghost Train ’ at the even-
ing performance, which starts at nine and
ends at midnight. A long day’s journey
after that is apt to leave one rather limp.
Calcutta is her real resting-place. There
she puts up with her sister, the wife of Dr.
Milford Rice.
Four ’bus loads of members ol: the
National Council of Women, nearly 120 in
all, thundered out from the City on Thurs-
day morning on the way to Camden. They
were the guests of the Macartliur Onslows,
who are the Camden Vale Milk Co., and the
pilgrimage was made in the interests of a
better milk supply for Sydney. In between
dairies the party went gay over sausage-roll
and sandwiches on the bank of the Nepean.
There were great cans of milk to wash down
the food, but Dutch Consul Teppema’s tall
wife and the sprightly Vinia de Loitte were
almost the only two who indulged in the
white fluid unadulterated. Being Australians
the women clustered around the billy. Miss
Macartliur Onslow, the chatelaine of Cam-
den Park, Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Onslow,
the General and his wife, and bright-faced
cousins Margaret an/d Elizabeth acted as
guides down the long avenues and through
the bosky groves.
What Troubadour would have sung the
maiden all forlorn, or that cow who jumped
over the moon, if he’d had any knowledge of
hygiene? The two cows aforesaid, the maiden
all forlorn and her sister Sirshe (you remem-
ber what Sirshe said), with her positively
germ-teeming three-legged stool, would never
have got a job at the Camden Vale dairy.
They know too. much about bacteria there.
The cows, who enter meekly through
machinery-elevated doors to have their tails
looped up by another piece of mechanism*
are superior cows. They have been pre-
viously brushed and washed and footbathed
by an army of gent, helps. To milk them
men and maids in white overalls,_ like hos-
pital attendants, sit on sterilised zinc stools,
with a hole in the top for lifting. Into
sterilised buckets which are dust-proof and
fly-proof the milk is drawn by hands washed
at white porcelain basins that dot the white-
and red-tiled premises. A steriliser which
brings the milk up to a degree where no
typhoid and diphtheric germ could live gets
to work on the milk after it has been rid of
its animal heat by being Tun through cool
pipes. After that it is brought to almost
freezing point for its journey to-Sydney.
It doesn’t take this journey in ordinary
milk-cans. The milk comes in special trucks,
into which it is precipitated from great
white vats at the depot near the Camden
station. This Letter saw the whole process
the other day at the new dairy opened by the
Camden Vale Milk Company. Then it took
a long, long look at the aristocratic cattle
of solemn mien, and went and wept into a
hollow 7 gum-tree for its old friend the Cow
who Jumped Over the Moon. It now 7 makes
an impassioned appeal for her recognition as
the inventor, at least, of the Milk Shake.
The Western Suburbs! Hospital, which
started life, 36 years ago, decided before it
quite left the fascinating middle-thirties to
have a fling amid the City’s lights. Hitherto
its money raisers have stayed at home in
Croydon. Last week the Wentworth was the
gay stage on which the revels were set.
and the big ballroom w 7 ore the congested
appearance of complete success. The presi-
dent of the dance was Miss G. G. Smith, who
has b"en the hospital’s secretary for over
20 years.; the secretaries w 7 erc Alathea Solo-
mon and Mrs. Norman Cushman, while Mrs.
E. Hope counted up the shekels. Two of
the night’s big parties were assembled by
Dr. and Mrs. Manning Hair and Dr. and
Mrs. H. B. Hetherington—the doctor has
given almost a lifetime to the hospital—
while the shinin'g fish on Mrs. Norman
Casliman’s platter was the baronet of Brad-
ley's Head, Sir James Croft. You'll not find
that address in Debrett, but it’s the Mosman
home of his sister, Mrs. Roy Cormack, with
whom he has been staying before going on
to gain experience on liis uncle’s New Eng-
land station.
Out at Castle Hill on these fine; spring-
clear mornings the birds sing and a wind
blows sweetly through the grasses. But there
are those on Castle Hill who never hear.
They are the small boys of St. Gabriel’s.
But speech of hand and eye and movement
has been given them by devoted teachers, and
so at the cabaret in aid of the school a
group of tin' small youngsters told in panto-
mime what they would like to be when they
grow up. It was a “just for fun” ambition,
and the keen-eyed and smiling youngsters
showed they enjoyed the quaint verses recited
from the prompt side by Brother O’Farrell.
There was a traffic policeman—a humorous
fellow this, who wouldn’t allow the baker,
the dentist or the sailor to loiter on the ball-
room floor once his turn was done. Later
on, when the dancing started, some kind-
hearted young girls came along and offered
themselves as partners, and the boys slid
away, stepping perfectly on the polished
floor.
Sydney’s card enthusiasts have set up a
Bridge Club, and to-day (Wednesday) it is
having a house-warming in Chard Buildings,
William-street. Players here have hitherto
followed variously the rulings of the New
York Whist and Bridge Club and the gov-
erning British organisation. The local Ace-
High Court will settle authoritatively dis-
putes which have turned some old card-
playing friends into social enemies.
Ascham Old Girls footed it fleetly at the
Ambassadors, and Miss Bailey held court
behind a bank of pink camellias and violets.
The dance was one of those young affairs,
as irrepressible as a balloon and as gaily
colored- as the tulip beds at Canberra in
September. Printed chiffons were worn by
the many and satin slices- to tone with their
frocks by practically all.
Old Boys of Newington and Old Boys of
King’s can fight out which had the more
successful reunion last week. Kingies held
their annual dance at the Ambassadors and
Njewingtonians flew their black and white
banner at the Wentworth.
Can you imagine anything worse than
trying to finish a sonata on a stomach on
which the surgeon’s solder is scarcely set?
That’s the job just-returned Roy Agnew
faced after his operation in London a few
months ago. As a result something went
wrong with the plumbing, and Roy came
back to Australia, where an anxious mother
is nursing him to health. But he finished the
sonata. It was one of the three ordered by
a big publishing house. The other two will
be written in a small garden up in Neutral
Bay. On Monday Roy was welcomed back
by the Queen Victoria Club, and at least,
one of his hostesses, Mrs. Ai’thur Scrivener,
just returned from Europe, knows at first
hand of his fame as a music writer.
When the Sydney young man first arrived
in England he put up at a private boarding-
house where one of the maids never ceased
expressing surprise that lie didn’t look like
a foreigner. “You know, Mr. Aggernoo,”
she would exclaim, “nobody would ever take
you for a foreigner. You’d be mistook any-
where for nn Englishman.” One day she
met him with: “You know, Mr. Aggernoo,
yon must feel lonely away from your own
people. Don’t you hever think of settling
down and marrying some English girl?”
To the young man’s rather abstracted
“Hadn’t thought of it,” she replied briskly:
“Anyway, Mr. Aggernoo. I serpose you’d
rather go back to Australia and marry one
of your hown sex.”
_ Veronica Mansfield, a pretty Australian
singing girl who has been studying for
three years at the Royal College of Music
as the holder of an open scholarship, is
about to embark on matrimony in London.
Veronica’s young man is Basil Newton
Parsons, the only child of George Parsons,
of the paint and enamel family who put out
their first sign in 1804. His baronet grand-
father, Alfred Newton, was in his day a
Lord Mayor of London. The wedding veil
and the lace for the train were first worn
early in the nineteenth century by Veronica’s
great-great-grandmotlier, Jane Sophia Swift,
a relation of the Dean’s; the treasures are
the property of the Dublin branch of the
falnily. The three bridesmaids hail from
Australia: Connie Baber, Patsy Bryan and
Victoria Anderson.
Another noted ring-flasher of Polo week
was Lesley Crossing, daughter of the Percv
Crossings. Leonard Cameron, of Welling-
ton (N.S.W.), is her highland laddie.
Bridge and mah-jongg at ss. a head are
the bait with which the committee is setting
the trap for a thousand players in the cause
of Sydney’s Deaf and Dumb. David Jones’s
dining-hall is the meeting-place and the war
will rage on July 30 from eight till eleven.


SOCIAL PROBLEMS
A, attending an important sale of pictures merely as a spectator, finds
that, owing to an unfortunate habit of nodding his head when excited,
he has become the purchaser of one of the world’s greatest pictures
at one of the world’s greatest prices.
What should A do ?
Undoubtedly - - LIGHT AN ABDULLA.
SUPERB Cigarettes
TURKISH EGYPTIAN VIRGINIA
The ■
Battery you can
rely on—always
Fit a P. & R. Accumulator to your
car and you won’t find it lacking when
most you need it. The right P. &R.
will turn an engine over against the
stickiest oil or the highest compression.
The reason is simple. The P. &R.
is built to give a powerful and healthy
rush of current to the starter. It is
built with the knowledge that when
the starter button is Jirst depressed the
battery is delivering current through an
almost complete short-circuit.
That is why inter-cell connectors on
the P. &R. are copper-cored. And
that, in turn, is one of the reasons
why the P. & R. lasts in service.
RJV
PETO &. RADFORD
ACCUMULATORS
The beginning and the end in
PoweR
Before you buy any
battery write for
special booklet to
’address below.
P. 4
dfs
Direct Factory
Representative:
John Arnold,
Degreaves Buildings,
Degreaves Street,
Melbourne.
A. G. HEALING, LTD.,
Melbourne.
SMITH SONS & REES, LTD.,
Sydney.
ROY HILL & GO., LTD., Adelaide.
MOTOR VEHICLES, LTD.,
Perth.
E. REYNOLDS & CO.,
Wellington, N.Z.
AIEMITE-ING”
A New Word with a
Vital New Meaning t
to Every Car Ownerl
JuvoiJqnl
311H31V
MIEANSj “Using Alemite equipment to force genuine
A lemite lubricants into the bearings and gears of your car*”
This makes new-running cars of middle-aged
cars: avoids 80% of all repair bills and
does what ordinary “greasing” will NOT DO
"ALEMITE-ING” is of vital in-
xx terest to most car owners for
two big reasons. First—it will keep
your car running as smoothly at
80,000 miles as it did at 8,000!
And more important, perhaps—it
will avoid 80 % of usual repair bills.
The amount garage and repair men
say is due solely to improper lubri-
cation.
NOT Ordinary “Greasing”
Don’t confuse Alemite-ing with or-
dinary “greasing.” For cheap greases
will never give you true Alemite pro-
tection. Many “greases” break down
under pressure —literally melt away.
They are dangerously inefficient, be-
cause heavy with “fillers,” soap and
fatty acids.
“ALEMITE-ING” Means Using
Genuine Alemite Lubricant
Alemite Lubricant, on the other
hand is a pure solidified oil that will
stand up under 3,000 pounds pres-
sure! (Average “grease” breaks
down under 200 pounds pressure.)
It resists heat up to 200°. And will
lubricate bearings properly at 30 ° be-
low zero. You must have all-weather
lubrication if you’d eliminate burnt
out bearings and rattles that come
from worn, corroded bearings.
Genuine Alemite Lubricant (for use
with both Alemite and Alemite-Zerk
Compressors) is on sale in handy 1
and 5 pound tins. Or, if your service
station does your lubricating—insist
they use genuine Alemite Lubricant
for your Alemite-ing.
Vital for GEARS, too
Insist that your service station use
trade-marked Alemite Gear Lubri-
cant —one grade for summer driving,
one for winter conditions. The
Bassick Manufacturing Company,
Division of Stewart-Warner, Chi-
cago, U. S. A.
df
The Alemite Fittings
Modern dust-proof Alemite and
Alernite-Zerk fittings for chassis
bearings. Lubricant is shot
through them under high pres-
sure to the heart of the bearing.
Old grease and grit thus forced
r, ut —clean new lubricant sur-
rounds the entire bearing.
sd
Alemite Compressors
To conform to fittings, com-
pressors come in two styles—
Alemite and Alemite-Xerk. The
Alemite Compressor forces lu-
bricant through bearing by
twisting handle—the Alemite-
/erk “gun” by a simple thrust-
ing motion.
fs
The Bearing
Cut-open view of lubricated
bearing. Note how lubricant
under pressure forces way en-
tirely through bearing.
No. 830
alemite
High Pressure Lubrication
©T.B.M.Co. Reg.U.S.Pat. Off.


COMMONWEALTH
CONVERSION LOAN
Bonus of £l/10/- Payable on Application.
You may convert your 5% Stock and Bonds maturing 15th September
into this new Loan and collect at once a Bonus of £l/10/- per cent, on the
amount converted. The new Loan bears the nominal interest rate of 5J%,
but the actual return for a 7-years’ investment is £5/10/3, and for 14
years £5/8/1. No State Income Tax is payable on your interest and you
can sell your investment at any time on the Stock Exchange.
You may make a cash subscription to the Loan on these terms. Anyone
with £lO or more available for investment may do so. £9/17/- will buy a
£lO Bond and £9B/10/- a-£lOO Bond. Only 10% deposit need be made
and the balance paid at any time up to I 4th September.
THE SAFEST OF ALL SECURITIES.
Full particulars from—
Banks, including Savings Banks, Money-Order Post Offices,
and Members of Stock Exchanges.
EARLE PAGE,
Treasurer.
Commonwealth Treasury,
Canberra, F.C.T.
m
Why
Benger’s
for Aged
Persons.
.168
WHEN, by weight of years, digestive
powers become enfeebled, and the
vital elements are not absorbed from
ordinary food, Benger’s is an agreeable
and abundant source of nutrition.
No Food is so acceptable and so
entirely suitable in old age as Benger’s,
nor so completely strength-giving.
A Doctor writes :■
I have much pleasure in testifying to the
value of your Food in the diet of old age, and
in dyspepsia and convalescence. I could not do
without it in my practice.”
is always made with fresh new milk,
which it enriches and converts into a
delicious food cream.
Banger's Food is sold by Chemists and Stores
everywhere.
Benger’s invaluable booklet, post free from
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., 350, George St., Sydney.
Sole Manufacturers :
Benger’s Food, Ltd., Manchester,
England.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
df
Worthy alike
of your Pride
and your Trust
Such a masterpiece of craftsmanship is the wafer-like,
modern Elgin.
Whether wristlet or vest-pocket variety, you never
have reason to question their accuracy, and none,
however discriminating, will ever challenge such out-
standing beauty of design.
Elgin watches are true alike to the time-minute and
the style-minute.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
<§>lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCE AND ‘EFFICIENCY
in the VJatch Cxis-e
J 'hi, r Jrade Mark
Buy Pilenta Soap—All Chemists. Advt.
Missing Friends.
p UNDERSEN, JACOB OLAF, architect.
born 1827 at Copenhagen, Denmark-
Emigrated to Australia in 1859. His legal
heirs or anyone knowing of their where-
abouts are requested to communicate with
the Danish Consulate-General, 58 Margaret
Street, Sydney.
TIM ANDERSON, late Atherton Table-
J land, communicate sister Upper Barron.
Important. Policy not paid.
Public Notices.
SYDNEY EUCHARISTIC CONGRESS
■pHE Accommodation during this period will be
unprocurable. Intending visitors should at once
make provision for this. We have arrangements with
many hotels and boarding-houses m and around
Sydney at tariffs to suit all pockets. These are filling
fast. For further information write to
ADVANCE ACCOMMODATIONS,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALASIAN ACCOMM6dATION SPECIALISTS.
sdf
GIVE YOUR BOY A
FAIR CHANCE.
For a small sum annually we pro-
vide him with a substantial banking
account when he starts on his career.
Full particulars from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals v ith every subject of
interest to women.
Beauty and Brains—
and Margaret Bannerman.
BY
Kelen Geam Beegling.
BEAUTY and brains seldom go together.
By that I mean real beauty. Think of
any of the fine-looking men you know,
for instance. Are they very clever? Then
think of some of the most ordinary, almost
ugly men you have seen. Nine times out of ten
that is where the brains are. It seems to
be Heaven’s compensation for plain looks.
Of the really beautiful women of the world
how many are really clever? Very, very few.
So it is with a sense of extreme pleasure that
I now introduce to you one of the most
beautiful women I have ever seen, in the
person of Margaret (to her intimates just
“Bunny”) Bannerman. To adequately de-
scribe Miss Bannerman is difficult, because
as soon as I think of her I dwell in super-
latives. Rarely, indeed, do we find a happy
combination of such beauty, such brains as
this most charming lady possesses. Anything
I could say of her beauty I feel does not do
her justice, any more than do her photos,
because in both we lose her exquisite charm,
her wonderful coloring. How should one
start to describe her? She is a little taller,
I should say, than the average height for a
woman, slim, and yet plump—you know what
I mean —a waist that tapers, a flawless chest;
what one might call just an adorable figure.
Her hair is fair, the color of gold, a real
blonde —but what a one! She is letting her
hair grow, and it is almost touching her
shoulder and it is naturally wavy. Her teeth
are pearly-white, and her eyes are blue,
clear and sparkling, fringed with long, dark
lashes —eyes alight with laughter and mis-
chief, with good nature and kindness. The
sort of eyes that every woman would love
to have. What more can I say? Her com-
plexion is the most perfect I have ever seen.
Her skin in glorious; no wonder she hardly
uses any make-up on the stage. When I
saw her in her dressing-room I could not
help remarking at the little make-up she
had on, and she said to me, “I am fortunate.
I rarely put on any more than yon see me
with now.” Her coloring is just wonderful
—and this is what you miss so much in her
photographs. The combination of the blue
of her eyes, the beautiful tones in her hair
and the coloring of her skin. If you get
pleasure as I do from seeing a really beauti-
ful woman, then do see Miss Bannerman.
Remember I spent months in Hollywood,
where I consider I saw some of the most
wonderful women in the world, and I can
still say in all sincerity that Miss Banner-
man is one of the most beautiful women I
have ever seen. Well, having told you of
her beauty, it will come as an agreeable sur-
prise to know that she is just as clever as
she is beautiful. She is a most charming,
natural hostess, without one iota of “side,”
bright, entertaining, able to talk on any sub-
ject, full of sympathy, and fond of home life.
In answer to some questions Miss Banner-
man told me : “I was born in Toronto, Canada,
Miss Beegling, and it is somewhere round
about ten years since I first went on the
stage. I started in the chorus, and consider
this is a great training ground. It was in
a musical comedy called ‘Tina’; then, for
awhile, I played with Matlieson Lang in
drama. Later, I was engaged to play lead-
ing lady to Charles Hawtrey. This was in
‘Send for Dr. O’Grady.’ I might mention
that it was whilst we were playing this
piece that Mr. Hawtrey died. At this time
Mr. Anthony Prinsep had secured a .long-
lease of the London Globe Theatre, and I
appeared there in ‘Oar Betters,’ which had
a run of almost two years. By the way, did
you like it, Miss Beegling?”
“I enjoyed every minute of it, Miss
Bannerm’an. It’s clever and most enter-
taining. I could easily see it again,
and I could not say that of many of
the present productions. But then I get
very tired of the average musical comedy.
Tliia clever comedy play of yours appeals to
me much more.”
“I’m glad you liked it,” Miss Ban-
nerman replied. “We are putting on
‘Sexes and Sevens’ next. You must see
that, too. This was my last appearance in
London. As regards what part I like play-
ing best, I really haven’t one. The part I
am playing is the one I like best at the time,
because I live it whilst I am playing it.
“Do you like dogs, Miss Beegling? I have
two adorable ones waiting for me at home.
I live not far out of London. At the present
time Edgar Wallace, the novelist, is renting
my home. Wait till I show you a photo of
Great Hero—ah, here it is—now, isn’t he a
wonderful dog?”
“He certainly is a fine animal, isn’t he?”
“Of course he is,” Miss Bannerman said,
laughing. “He is a greyhound, and I love his
expressive eyes. So would you if you knew
him as I do. He just recently won a silver
cup for me. What do I like outside my
life at the theatre? Now, let me see?
Well, I am very fond of a good book (when
I get time to read one). I like motoring.
By the way, I don’t believe in night clubs
and that sort of thing.”
“Miss Bannerman, I should say it would
be impossible to stay as fresh looking as you
do if you had much of that life!”
“In my home I am fond of antiques and
also interior decorations. I adore jewellery
and I love nice clothes. Would you like to
see some of my Parisian frocks and hats.
Miss Beegling?”
“Oh, Miss Bannerman, I’d just love to
see them!”
Whereupon a wardrobe was opened and the
sight rendered me speechless! What frocks !
What hats! How to find words to adequately
describe them to you ! Exquisite! And what
an artist Margaret Bannerman is; just a
touch here and a twist there, and lo! she
is dressed as a fashion plate. All her clothes
are made in Paris, as are also her shoes,
gloves, etc. She takes a size three shoe, so
you see she is even perfect to possessing
a small, sweet little foot! It was worth
while seeing “Our Betters” just to have the
opportunity of viewing Miss Bannerman in
the three changes she wears in this produc-
tion. One was of sapphire-blue with beaten
gold butterflies on it. Another was a silver
lamd. She wears exquisite creations as only
an artist could wear them.
“My ambition in life? Well, Miss Beeg-
ling, every year I have a new one —at present
I can truthfully say it is that I will be a
success in your sunny Australia.”
“Miss Bannerman, if you were settling
down for the rest of your life, where would
you want to live?”
“Well, that is a big order. Now, let me
see, where would I like to live? Well, I
think I would choose somewhere in the
south of France. But my very favorite city
is London, though I am cosmopolitan enough
to love all cities, all towns I go to whilst
I am in them enjoying myself. I loved the
trip out to Australia, but the Red Sea —
phew!”
“What hints on diet can you give me, Miss
Bannerman?”
“Ah! that’s the question of the day,
isn’t it? Well, I am fortunate that
I do not care for sweets very much, and, to
be candid, I do not have to bother with my
diet a great deal. Grills are good, chops
and pineapple; and plenty of vegetables by
themselves. If you are on a diet, coffee is
more sustaining than tea, you will find. ’
“And now for your skin, Miss Banner-
man. Do you use much cream?”
“No, I use very little, as a matter of
fact, Miss Beegliug. I rarely have face
massage, and I make-up as little as
I possibly can. You may tell them
that I use Mercolized Wax for my com-
plexion, and I never wash my face in soap
and water, though I do bathe my face in
c old water. This is a good stimulant. For
the hands and nails, you will find that an
ordinary lemon is excellent as a bleach and
for removing any stains. I bathe my eyes,
too, in cold water.”
“What is your favorite color, Miss Ban-
nerman?”
“It is blue. At the present time the
newest color is turquoise blue._ It is on
almost everything; look! This is the shade
I mean.”
And saying this Miss Bannerman
again peeped into her wardrobe and
brought forth an exquisite frock of a
kind of mustard shade which had on it a
-folded waistband of this turquoise blue. I
might mention here that her hats are all
small and tight-fitting as in this photo. These
photos arrived from Paris whilst I was with
her, and she very kindly gave me one of them
to publish with this interview. As. one
talks with Miss Bannerman, one is convinced
that here, at last, are “beauty and brains.”
Her vivacity is amazing. She is a lively
conversationalist, and keeps one enthralled
all the time one is in her presence—her
manner is delightfully natural and devoid of
any self-consciousness. She gave me the
impression that she is brim-full of fun, of
laughter, of happiness. What a pity there
are not more like her. A brilliant, a most
accomplished woman; and one I consider it is
a privilege to have met, and spoken to. You
must go and see her. Apart from the excellent
acting of the whole company, Miss Banner-
man’s frocking is a revelation. In “Sexes
and Sevens” you will find a play full of pep.
one which will provide both critics and
public with food for thought.


M A A
r\
.01 j}ii,
h
“? J&J*
SlfeS -fe' fe
R 3;
Mnifii
p
Tri
if
rtfr
iW
The comfort to be had on board the Orient Liners and
the pleasure to be had from visiting so many interest-
ing countries, whilst en route to England, makes the
voyage by the Orient Line a most enjoyable holiday.
ORIENT LINE
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
Amusements.
F '* »' I It E T H E A T H E,
Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Thursdays & Saturdays, 2.15.
Great New York Golfing Story,
TOP HOLE.
With Van Lowe, Renee Dixon, Blanche Jones, Russeii
Scott, Audrey Lewis, Fred Bluett, Violet Elliott
and All-Star Cast.
The Famous Empire Pony Ballet and Beauty Chorus.
Week Nights: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6, 7/6. Sat. Nights: 3/3.
5/6, 8/6. Matinees: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6. Children: 1/-,
1/6, 2/6. Reserves: Theatre, MAIOOO, and all city
Booking Offices.
fcj YDX li Y’S CHIEF THEATRES
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: GRAND OPERA.
ROYAL: THE SILENT HOUSE.
CRITERION: SEXES AND SEVENS.
PALACE:
THE LAUGHING OPTIMIST.
DH’KARRS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
REGENT THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUS THEATRE
presents
BATTLES OF CORONEL AND FALK-
LAND ISLANDS.
MARIE LORRAINE in
THE FAR PARADISE.
ALLAN MiLIvlE ami MISS HUNTER*
" WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SHAKSPKAitE.
In preparation: “Henry IV.” (Parts I and II),
“Richard II.”
In Season, MAJESTIC THEATRE, NEWTOWN.
Sydney Rep.: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229, Sydney.
’Phone: MA1277.
J.
C. \\ 1 LL I A M SO N. LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S : THE GIRL FRIEND.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE PATSY.
A THEN Ai U M TIIEAT It E.
** MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING.
E. J. Carroll presents, by arrangement with Richard
White and Eric Edgley, the Hilarious Comedy,
NEW BROOMS.
Starring the Beautiful Young Artist,
LEONA HOGARTH.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will ruote you price ror the original.
H o v TVS
Amusements.
D E LU X E
MELBOURNE.
theatre,
THE DEVIL DANCER.
With GILDA GRAY.
Ai.so
BRINGING UP FATHER.
With POLLY MORAN and MARIE DRESSLER.
|VT\JESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
BRASS KNUCKLES.
With
MONTE BLUE and BETTY BRONSON.
Box Plan at Allans’ & Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790.
KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8. ■
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS. •
William Anderson presents the Australian Comedy,
THE RUDD FAMILY.
Public Notice.
EIGHTEENTH CHILDREN’S
PORTRAITS COMPETITION
£5 - FOR BEST BOY £5
£5 FOR BEST GIRL £5
(Judgment of Management to be Final.)
TEN SHILLINGS
for Every Other Photo Used.
Photos Wanted from Every State
for United Commercial Travellers’ Association’s
National Annual, Australia To-day. Photos
(babyhood up to 15 years last birthday) must have
been taken during last 12 months/ RACK OF
PHOTO must show NAME AND ADDRESS AND
AGE OF CHILD with NAME AND ADDRESS OF
SENDER. Unused photos will be returned, post
paid, immediately judging is completed. Photos must
reach Eriitor, Australia To-day, Commerce House, 328
Flinders Street, Melbourne, by SEPTEMBER 25, 1928.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE .. .... . . Bd.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
The Little Sisters
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Mayoress’s room at the Town Hall
was turned into a fernery for the benefit
of the Barrier Reef expeditioners when
Mayor Jolly gave them a civic reception.
Silver wattle in a bowl flanked with roses
and gladioli relieved the delicate greens of
maidenhair and other ferns. On the plat-
form with the Mayor were Dr. C. M. and
Mrs. Yonge; Prof. Richards, of our Uni.;
Mrs. Richards, Mr. Russell (zoologist) and
J. G. Bayley. Mrs. Jolly was in the hall
with other members of the expedition.
In the evening the Queensland Women
Graduates’ Association gave a high tea in
the Women’s Club rooms to the feminine
members of the party; other guests of
honor being Kathryn Reece, of the "Prin-
cess Charming” co., and Constance Duncan,
from Japan. Wild flowers and wattle
adorned the rooms. Dorothy Dcnniss and
Freda Bage did the welcoming. Afterwards
they all went on to hear Dr. Yonge’s address,
for which the geology lecture-room in the
Uni. was packed.
Frank Moorhouse, a Brisbane native, son
of the Rev. James Moorhouse and brother of
Mayoress Jolly, goes with the expedition as
zoologist and oceanographer.
At His Majesty's, Kathryn Recce made a
successful debut in “Princess Charming.”
Yvonne Banvard is also a pet of our audi-
ences and looks very seductive in her vamp
gowns. Flowers, so scarce just now, ex-
pressed the audience’s appreciation.
For the dance in aid of the- club-house build-
ing fund, Hamilton Town Hall was dressed up
in red, blue and gold by the Girl Guides.
Emmie Stewart’s orchestra played, and there
was a buffet supper surrounded by poinset-
tias and gold streamers. Mrs. Borton and
Misses M. and G. Greenup judged the fancy
dresses and awarded a first prize to Miss
J. McKenna, who was in Hawaiian attire.
Miss D. Hargreaves was adjudged wearer of
the most original costume. She was a tele-
phone exchange.
The 26th Battalion had its dance in the
Trocadero. Major Wolff was the guest of
the committee; and in the throng were the
Buttners, Dr. and Mrs. Foote, the Sligoes
and C. W. Bailey.
Death has taken two very old residents.
Maria Blaik, born at Belfast, Ireland, in
1804, came with her parents in 1870 to the
Pine River, where she met her husband,
Henry Sass, theirs being the first wedding
in the old Bald Hills kirk. Nine years
later her husband was drowned in Moreton
Bay, Later she married Jens Christian
l>laik, who survives her. There were five
children of the first marriage apd 11 of the
second, and 36 grandchildren and eight great-
grandchildren mourn the old lady. Mrs.
Harriet Hill, who died at 84, came to this
Mate 53 years ago in the sailing ship Ophelia
and settled in the Zillmere district after
marriage. She survived her husband 30 years.
Passed away at Mount Morgan, at the
age of 87, a very charming old lady, Mrs.
v\ inter, whose husband was for many years
employed by the Mount Morgan G.M. Co.
Bke was reared at the royal palace of Copen-
hagen, her .mother, Madam Hansen, being
chambermaid to the late queen. After the
death of King Ferdinand, madam, with her
husband and daughter, migrated to Aus-
tralia, where Mrs. Winter married and spent
the rest of a long life.
TASMANIA.
rn ,. , , Hobart.
Ihis smiling face belongs to Elvie Quigley
of Launceston, one of the most open-handed
and public-spirited women in the northern
part of the
Speck. Keenly
interested i n
child welfare
and women’s
affairs, Miss
Quigley has
organised
m any enter-
prises in aid
of such move-
ments and
always with
conspicuous
success. St.
Joseph’s Col-
lege relies
upon her for
the engineering
of its annual
ball, which
this year at-
tracted a re-
cord number
of dancers.
The point-to-point races at Melton Mow-
bray drew crowds from the surrounding dis-
trict and a big contingent from the South.
The weather was as mild as late spring.
Leila Headlam’s win in the Ladies’ Race
was very popular. President Jim Mitchell
was there with Mrs. Mitchell, and among
the Hobart visitors were Tom Lyons and his
daughter, Major and Mrs. Williams. Lieut-
Col. and Mrs. Cox Taylor, the Fred Grants
Mrs. Basil Crisp, and Dr. and Mrs. Bretting-
ham Moore. The broadacre interests were
represented by the Eustace Camerons, E O.
Bisdees, Ivo Agnews. James Melroses, Rus-
sell Ibbotts, Walter Gellibrands and others.
The O’Grady presented the Cup to Russeli
Ibbott, whose horse Strathbarton won the
Melton Hunt Club Steeplechase.
To keep the fun going after the Melton
Mowbray races Mrs. E. O. Bisdee gave a
dance and bridge party. Mrs. Bisdee re-
ceived in pale orange chiffon velvet and
daughter Zelda helped in silver tissue with
apricot miroir velvet coatee. Big fires kept
the rooms delightfully warm, and pink chry-
santhemums decorated them.
His Ex. and daughter Margaret, the latter
lately returned from the mainland, put in
an appearance at the Royal Auto Car Club’s
party. The Masonic Hall looked very cheery
with greenery and flags and colored lights.
The v.-r. party included Col. and Mrs. A. P.
Crisp, club president Weller Arnold and his
wife, and T. Lyons. During the evening
Mrs. Hickman, Doreen Bidencope, T. Coward
and C. Muir burst into song.
About 250 rolled up to the Royal Hobart
Coif Club’s bridge and mah-jongg party at
Hadley’s. Robert Nettlefold enlivened the
proceedings by showing films of golf stances
secured when abroad, and raffles added con-
siderably to the funds. A big committee ran
the affair, which was excellently organised.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The. Town Hall was crowded for the civic
reception to Maude Royden. When the pan-
atfope broke down with a gurgle after three
bars of “God Save,” a merry smile trans-
formed the features of the not-too-serious
visitor. There were speeches by the Mayor
and Councillors, and Mrs. Joyner, president
of the ladies’ welcome committee, had her
say. A monster basket of flowers hidden
under an Australian flag until the end of
the meeting, when it was handed to Miss
Royden, was Mrs. Joyner’s idea. A diminutive
Y.A.L. drummer boy helped her unpack
the sweet-smelling contents, mostly gifts of
societies and welfare movements.
Herewith Dr. Roberta Jull, just returned
from Brisbane
and the fourth
conference o f
the Australian
Federation of
Univ ers i t y
Women. Inter-
national peace
is the lofty
aim of this
fed e iva t i o u,
which ramifies
through 28
countries.
Education for
girls was much
discussed by
the Australian
delegates, and
Dr. dull based
her paper on
the backward
trend of the
prejudice
against professional women. She is a medi-
cal officer for schools and Supervisor of
Infant Welfare. A few years ago she visited
the Tresslllian institution in Sydney, and
later the Karitane babies’ hospital in Dune-
din, to have a look at Truby King’s methods.
Mayoress Franklin and her C.M.G.-M.L.C.
husband gave a party in the Piccadilly ball-
room to entertain friends and political sup-
porters. The hostess wore black sprinkled
with silver ami was assisted by her daugh-
ters, Mrs. E. B. Sinclair, Mrs. Brockman,
Mrs. Randall Smith and the Misses Frank-
lin. Young and old joined in the dancing,
and musical items were contributed by
Gwladys Edwards, Thelma Neil. Mrs. Carl
Bader, Mrs. Barrington, Miss Lyons, Miss
Ledger, Miss Reid, Mr. Hartley, Mr. Farr,
Mr. Costley and Miss Ruby Franklin.
The Mooltan took away Dr. Rita Stang,
who for three years has been a medical in-
spector, medical officer for schools and lec-
turer in hygiene at the Training College.
She has been chosen for an exchange with
Dr. Holloway, a woman medical inspector
for the London County Council. This is
the first exchange of the sort with Aus-
tralia. Before taking up her new duties
Dr. Stang will go to Dublin as a dele-
gate from Perth University to the Public
Health Conference.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Adelaide Uni.’s annual ball at the Elder
Hall brought forward 33 debutantes to
make their bow to His Ex. and Lady Hore-
Ruthven. Mrs. E. W. Holden, who pre-
sented them, had made a point of long white
kid gloves being worn. Twenty-five bob
means a lot these hard times, but the re-
sult justified it. The 33 supporting under-
grads. were required to be gloved also. That
hurt even more. Lady Hore-Rutliven wore her
smartest toilette up-to-date, a gold and pink
tissue with a diamond bandeau. The two
youngest members of the v.-r. suite, Miss
Denise Daly and Capt. the Hon. Hugh
Grosvenor, completed the Government House
party. Mrs. F. T. Harcus, our champion
amateur decorator, was responsible for the
autumnal drapings of foliage in the ball-
room, and Mrs. Bronte Smeaton and Mrs.
John Corbin, with assistants, shared the
honors regarding the commissariat. The
Chancellor, Chief Justice Murray,' received
the guests. Molly Davies, daughter of
Prof. H. Davies, was a deb.
The Uni. has been much in the public eye
lately. In an effort to raise funds the
students, backed by the profs., held a bob
conversazione. There were all sorts of
demonstrations and experiments, explosions
and evil smells in the chemical department,
and the miblic enjoyed the chance of a
peep at all the shows. Their Exes, attended,
and were received and piloted round bv the
Chancellor. *
At the Adelaide Hunt Club’s race meet-
ing at Cheltenham, president F. W. Whyte
and his wife entertained the Governor, Lady
Hore-Rutliven and many others at luncheon
and afternoon tea. After the running of
the Drag Cup her Ex. presented the trophy
to Ernest Luxmoore, owner of Marmite
Lady Idore-Ruthven is a very quiet f rocker
and always wears plain tailor-mades at the
races.
The Town Hall was crowded to overflow-
ing when a benefit was given to Mrs. Vivi-
enne Powis Stuart, for many years dramatic
director of the University Shakspearean
Society and also of the Shakspearean
Theatre. Mrs. Powis Stuart appeared in
scenes from "Henry VIII.” It was a cos-
tume affair, and several leading artists
assisted.


+G.F.+
♦ g7\
TESTED TO
A
mm
□
□
(!&)
&
i
□
It is at this high pressure—namely, 3001bs. per sq. in.
—that every "TG.F.T" Malleable Tube Fitting is
tested. This rigorous testing is your assurance that
every ”I“G.F.”I” Fitting supplied to you is perfect.
Engineers, Heating Contractors and Gas Fitters
know that “l“G.F.“l“ Fittings are the best in the
world, and can always be relied upon.
Suitable for steam, water or gas services.
-|-G.F.-|“ Fittings are extremely malle-
able, as this illustration shows. They
will not crack or strip under the strain
of “that extra turn” and will give satis-
faction wherever they are used, because
they are absolutely reliable.
This illustration shows the snug fit which
~|-G.F “|- Fittings make. The threads are
accurate and screwed in dead alignment and
the bore is clean and smooth—entirely free
from sandholes and blowholes. This is the
case with every - |“G.F.~|~ malleable fitting
and is guaranteed by the rigid examination
each fitting receives after it is manufactured.
4000 Varieties.
Write for Latest List
WILLIAM ADAMS € COMPANY
LI M ITED
SYDNEY 175 Clarence Street; MELBOURNE.. 521-523 Collins Street.
BRISBANE.. Edward & Mary Streets. ADELAIDE.... 157 Waymouth Street.
PERTH 33-35 King Street. NEWCASTLE. . 17 Bolton Street.
+OF.+


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
I
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co„
214 George Street, Sydney.
Q&a'iifo
LIQUEUR
’ - ✓ ns//T) L
\ v
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellou)
Shipped by
WM. GRANT & SONS, LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm of Scotch Whisky Distillers.
Where Perfect Cuisine, Beautiful
Surroundings and the Spirit of
Revelry Combine to Make a
Memorable Evening’s Enjoyment.
Come Soon :: Come To-night.
You’ll be glad you came.
MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY,
THURSDAY, FRIDAY.
DINNER DE LUXE, 7.30 12/6
SUPPER, from 10 o’clock 8/6
SATURDAY-
LATE NIGHT OF DISTINCTION.
A Superb Dinner, 21 f-., from 7.30.
Special Supper, 10 o’clock .. 12/6
True Relaxation, Substituting Joy and Delight,
DELIGHTFUL TEA DANSANT, WITH
SPARKLING CABARET,
3 to 5, 4/-; 6 up, 3/6.
Saturday, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Ordcr Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
THE SOUATTING DEVIL
OF SAMARAI
BY
JON L. IDRILSS
YUSSUF' was heartbroken, lie had lost
his only brother, stolen from his own
ship. The lad had been steering by
moonlight with Duppa. The others were
below deck. There had come a sudden crash
from the swinging boom, a scream and a
thump as Duppa jumped straight down the
companionway.
After a second’s silence Yussuf sprang up
to the deck and instinctively snatched the
tiller. But nothing was to be seen except the
usual beauty of starlit water spreading
amongst dim islands. The deck was printed
upon Yussuf’s brain. It was exactly as
usual. But Akran La, the little brother, was
gone!
And now Yussuf brooded, a raging fury in
his breast. For he had lost his honor with
his brother, because there was no human roe
whose life he could take as recompense to
tlm old father waiting back there at
Manila. And the Malay who loses his honor
dies accursed.
Squatting astern in his scarlet sarong
Yussuf thought deeply while the crew
crouched for’ard tremblingly awaiting the
dawn. Big Duppa especially! For the
Malay with tigerish fierceness had throttled
the islander until his tongue had swelled and
his face was afoam.
But Duppa could tell him nothing—-no-
thing tliat counted. He and the lad had
been whispering of love and the Hanuabada
girls when something vague and dripping had
reached from out the sea across the lugger’s
deck. It had coiled around Akran La and
dragged him quite easily overboard. It had
disappeared then. The lad had screamed only
once, just as his head touched the water.
Duppa remembered that the lad’s teeth and
eyes shone very white; but he did not know
what the thing was, except that it was a
devil, like the devil-horse in the Thursday
Island pictures that poked out its long nose
and, curling it, lifted a man high into the
air. Only this devil had no tusks.
. Calling alt liis years of sea wisdom to aid
him in solving the mystery, Yussuf sat in
the cold light of dawn sharpening his knife.
* * * *
My friend Billy Banner finds in life a quiet
happiness, and has a never-ceasing pleasure
in its wonders. But now he was merry, for
the little visitor at Moresby was grey-eyed
and quite delightfully saucy and eager to
absorb island lore during her wonderful holi-
day. And Billy at the party had promised
her a pearl, a dinkum “tearstone” from a
New Guinea pearl-oyster. Like most Sydney
visitors she vaguely thought pearls * grew
plentifully on the sea shores. Then young
Clapham, clerk at B.P.’s, had jokingly asked
Billy if he would snatch the pearl from
the bottom of the Devil’s Pool. Billy imme-
diately promised this, too, quite tickled at
the idea. But several of the experienced men
looked askance; and the girl was told all
about the Devil’s Pool.
If you know the Samarai waters, then
you must have heard of the Devil’s Pool. It
is a great hole in the sea bed in which dwells
an old-man octopus of giant size and more
than giant strength. Divers have seen an
occasional one of these brutes along the
Great Barrier Reef and in isolated spots in
the Coral Sea. Such localities, once identi-
fied, are well and truly shunned by the fish-
ing fleets, whether trochus men or hunters
of pearl or beche-de-mer. The Devil of
Samarai, as this one was familiarly called,
was known because it had chosen its den in
a bed of rich shell, and divers had seen it.
A South Sea man and a Manila man had
apparently seen it, too, but they never re-
turned to tell. Since then no one had been
down into the Tool to see. So the girl, genu-
inely alarmed, forbade Billy to risk his life.
Her plea made him all the more deter-
mined. He loved the uncommon aspects of
life, and the underwater world had livened
his imagination with many weird glimpses.
To seek a pearl in an octopus den, to have
the task sweetened first by the smile and
then by the fears of a pretty girl, made an
experience exceptionally piquant.
. Billy knew that probably there awaited a
rich haul of shell for him; but as to a pearl
—a diver may open five hundred shells and
not find one! Still, the gods smile on the
venturesome, and this was their chance. A
pearl snatched from the Devil’s Pool—per-
haps in the sight of the old man himself!
Billy smiled in delighted anticipation. He
had quite a thrilling storehouse of memories
against old age.
But the men of the Coral Sea love Billy;
and when the party broke up an old resi-
dent frowned upon him. “You won’t be
such a fool, Billy!” he urged.
Billy smiled cheerfully. “I’ll get that
pearl if I have to tickle the octopus’s tail.”
“Mad!” said Mooreliouse grimly. “You
know that the beast has really been seen ;
you know that the deaths of several divers
are attributed" to him. Give the girl a pearl
from any old shell. She won’t know the dif-
ference !”
“But I will,” smiled Billy, thinking of his
memories. “She shall have the genuine
article with the Octopus brand. Why, she
will treasure that ‘tear of the sea’ all her
life.”
“She’ll know quite a lot of tears if daddy-
long-legs fastens hold of you,” answered the
resident.
But Billy laughed and went whistling
down to the waterway where the lugger lay
with her nose turned inshore as if awaiting
his coming.
* • * . s|:
It was a divinely bright day, showing the
water clear for many fathoms deep. It would
“Through the face-glass he saw what was coming—the body of the octopus in mid-water:"
be almost like moonlight down below, mused
Billy as the lugger glided along—why, even
at a great depth a man would be able to
distinguish the sea things winking!
It was slack tide when they lazed over
the Devil’s Pool, with hardly a breath of
wind. In the near distance a dirty grey
lugger drifted towards them, and before Billy
was well into his clumsy dress his island
boys were hallooing to their cobbers across
the water.
Billy idly wondered if big Yussuf the
Malay, who noted the preparations, would
pluck up courage to dive in company. Billy
rather wished Yussuf wouldn’t; he wanted
the grim chance of this dive all to himself.
Clumsily he waddled overside, clinging to
the short ladder while the tender screwed his
helmet down. Through the open vizor Billy
took a final glance at the sky—he always
liked to do that—then smiled and nodded,
and the tender screwed the face-glass in.
Billy waited for the smart click-clack, click-
clack of the motor pump; then he regulated
the rush of air by his valve screwed to the
helmet. Finally lie slung himself backward
and went down slowly in a radiant whirl of
bubbles.
He slipped into green twilight that dimmed
softly until it enveloped him in dull green
gloom, lie met the corals while still going
down. Far out they stretched, vague and
indistinct, enclosing him in a basin of battle-
mented shapes dangerous with black caverns,
curtained plants drooping from purple ram-
parts and black and crimson corals shading
plants that trellised an occasional flower like
a white phosphorescent lily tiger-striped with
yellow. But Billy wondered that he saw no
sign of fish bar the swarms of tiny colored
beauties that darted into the flower-gardens
at his monstrous approach.
He came to rest on a gravelly bottom car-
peted with yellow seagrass and was inter-
ested, because a large gravel patch sur-
rounded by corals was unusual to him.
Basin-like sponges pulsed dreamily among
upright grasses that showed no slightest sway
of their tops, so still was the tide. Curiously
he peered about, and chuckled happily at
sight of black-lipped pearl. For the shell
was here right enough, poked away up among
the crevices and bo-peeping from the weedy
bottom. It was only the snappiest glimpse
of pearl that he caught, for they shut their
lips instinctively as he approached. Clum-
sily he walked ahead, side-stepping like a
grotesque monster when picking up a shell;
straightening- himself like a bulging auto-
maton to drop each find into the network bag
at his waist. So he manoeuvred on along
a shelving bottom that sloped into deeper
gloom.
Apparently the grey-eyed Sydney girl stood
a real chance of getting her pearl. But
where was the devil that guarded this breed-
ing hole in the sea? Its absence reminded
him of a far-off school day when he had
pinched a farmer’s water-melon in ticklish
trepidation as to the whereabouts of the dog
that never turned up.
In quick time he had bagged twenty-five
shells, a good pick-up. lie signalled, and
down came an empty bag on a cord ringed
around the line. Billy detached-his full bag
and sent it up, then plodded on full of
enthusiasm. It would be stiff luck if this
hole did not yield more than one pearl, pro-
vided he could work it undisturbed for a
week. Whether or not, there was some tons
of shell here which would pay handsomely,
perhaps yield a trip to Sydney. Billy smiled,
lie determined to get that pearl.
And then he stood camouflaging himself
into the patchwork life around him. For
a ledge had taken shape just ahead, and
fronting it was an indistinct heap of white
and yellow. ,
Carapaces of turtle lay there, and dugong
skulls and bones of monster fish. Billy knew
well what strong beak had crushed those
bones and shells; he stood gazing at the
grass freshly bowed down, and in horror
saw nestling among the fronds the shadowy
body of a man. He seemed so forlorn, that
lone human in bis nakedness. Then a blur
crossed over Billy’s face-glass as something
. moved from the outer gloom and squatted on
the ledge.
Staring at him, as he now made it out, was
the slimy monster of the sea. F'ascinating in
its hideousness, the octopus squatted there,
its baglike body roughly resembling a nuggety
man without legs and arms. Its tentacles
were loosely looped up before it, to droop
down under its body; and from there the
snaky ends trailed down far over the ledge.
Thick as elephants’ trunks were those ten-
tacles, and Billy knew fearfully that each
could reach out thirty feet. He loathed the
black squat belly of that thing, which looked
as if it could expand enormously.
Between the tentacles he glimpsed a great
beak. But it was the eyes that gripped him.
They protruded big almost as saucers.
Water-green, their glare was terrifyingly
powerful, and gave an impression of dia-
bolical power.
t As Billy watched, the thing visibly
changed color, its blackish brown turning
into the varied colors of the surrounding
sea-plants. But its eyes !
Billy’s hand moved and opened his air-
valve. Instantly the full power from the
pump above seethed into the suit; hut with
his guarded movement the beast had also
moved. With an uncanny effect of effort-
lessness its tentacles wafted out, and their
ends looped lightly around crags above and
to the side of Billy, whose baggy suit bulged
rapidly. Signalling the tender above, he
gripped a coral block to prevent the lift of
the air-inflated suit from dragging him off
the ocean floor. His only chance was now a
whirling escape. The suit ballooned out,
giving him an isolated feeling of roominess,
the leather and rubber stretching to the stiff-
ness almost of steel. Soon his arms felt that
they were being dragged out by the roots.
He hung on tenaciously, his body feather-
light. Ilis fingers slipped from the anchoring
coral, and he shot instantly up-
wards, losing sight of everything
until brought up short as a ten-
tacle of the Horror shot out and
gripped the lifeline!
Billy floundered in a des-
perate endeavor to keep his head
and feet. Through the face-glass
he saw what was coming—the
body of the octopus in mid-
water. Stretched to its furthest
limit, two tentacles gripping the
bottom; others coiled out towards
him, while several, like tautened
cables, clung to his lifeline. In a
flash he wondered whether the air,
filling his suit, could possibly tear
the beast from its grip; or would
the tough leather burst first? Fran-
tically he snatched out his knife as
a tentacle threatened his body. He
knew he must prevent that or he
was done.
He screwed tight the air-escape
valve, which abandoned him to
silence. Next he slashed through
air-pipe and lifeline, and would have
shot free, but that a tentacle-tip had
fastened around the neck of his hel-
met. He glimpsed the quiver of the
beast as the severed lifeline had re-
leased him upwards, lie slashed
impotently at the coil around his
neck—and another on the instant
fastened around his arm.
Quite helpless now, he stared at
the Thing because he could do no-
thing else. It held a grip of the
ledge, while almost movelessly lash-
ing itself around him. He felt the
slow, steady heave as it overcame the great
resistance of the air-filled suit. Very slowly
he went down with a tearing feeling of a
powerful force behind him that was struggling
to shoot to the top. His head was as if
filled with thunder, and a hope was in his
heart that he would be dead of air-paralysis
before the beast could draw the expanded
suit within its horrible belly.
(Consciousness was slipping from him when
lie had a vision of a beautiful bronzed form
speeding down from above, flashing from
green twilight into gloom.
* ■ * * *
Yussuf. with his loved knife between his
teeth, took his time to thoroughly avenge
his little brother. lie struck downwards
from behind, slitting open the envelope of
the creature with one long, dreadful gash.
Billy Banner was clouded in inky black-
ness one second ; the next he was shooting-
upward to the terror of the crew boys and
the “Thank God !” of the distracted tender.


Jones might strap-hang and still read
his evening outrage,
Brown could lie about the size of the
fish without dropping his bundles,
McAarons could save caddy fees
And Persmith fit himself with bumper-bars.
Magnetism might be involved here;
And who hasn’t felt the need of a pneumatic waiter?
MORE AIDS TO COMFORT.
“The heads of the Police Department of Sydney approve of mechanical signalling devices on motor-cars.” —Daily paper.
It seems to “THE BULLETIN” that a great deal more might be done with mechanical accessories.


X
2^
=- man pays particu-
lar attention to his hat.
It is the most distinc-
tive feature of his
apparel.
Battersby Hats have
that unobtrusive
smartness which
always characterises
really good style. They
are unequalled for
workmanship and
value.
BRITISH
HATS
FOR MEN
SOLD £Y
THE BEST
HATTERS
Actual Makers:
BATTERSBY & CO., LTD.,
Stockport.
For further particulars, write—
SYDNEY:
BOX 1 655JJ, G.P.O.
MELBOURNE:
BOX 364, G.P.O.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
BOX 763.
' Public Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OB
1 QUEENSLAND.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
To ANNIE KILPATRICK BROWNDOW
formerly of Jandowne in . tlie State of
Queensland but whose present where-
abouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme
Court of Queensland at Brisbane in the
State of Queensland No. 754 of 1927 by
your husband in which he claims a dissolu-
tion of his marriage with you and custody
of the child the issue of the marriage and
by a Petition filed in the said Court on the
twenty-first day of December 1927 he alleges
that on or about the twentieth day of May
one thousand nine hundred and twenty you
left him and have ever since lived separate
and apart from him and have never since
returned to cohabit with him and that you
have deserted him without cause continu-
ously for five years and upwards and that
it has been ordered that service of the
Writ of Summons and Petition on you be
effected by filing in the Registry of this.
Honorable Court at Brisbane and sticking
up on the Notice Board in the Registry of
this Honorable Court at Brisbane an office
copy of the said Petition and a copy of the
said Writ filed herein and by the insertion
of this advertisement in two issues at inter-
vals of a fortnight in the following news-
papers the Queenslander’ and the Tele-
graph newspapers published at Brisbane in
the State of Queensland and The Bulletin
and the Sydney Morning Herald published
at Sydney in the State of New South Wales
arid also by posting in a prepaid registered
letter a copy of this advertisement addressed
to W. K. Thompson at Marnlmll Dalby
such service to be deemed effective after the
expiration of thirty days from the date of
t.li last act done in pursuance of the said
order. If you desire to defend this action
you must within thirty days from such
service enter an appearance at the Registry
of the Supreme Court of Queensland at
Brisbane and in default of such appearance
judgment may be given in your absence.
Dated this twenty-second day of June
1925.
(l.s. ) W. C. WOODIIOUSE,
Acting Deputy Registrar.
IX J. O’MAR A & ROBINSON,
Solicitors for Plaintiff, Brisbane.
Beans—
really oven baked
HEINZ Oven Baked
Beans are distinc-
tively different—so de-
licious and nutritious.
W e bake themuntil each
bean is transformed
into an appetizing mor-
sel that melts in the
mouth. It’s a long, slow
process, but no other
method of cooking per-
forms such wonders.
Simply heat in the tin,
serve hot —and enjoy.
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY
London, Eng. Pittsburgh, Pa. Toronto, Cam
one of the
57
Varieties
HEINZ
OVEN BAKED
BEANS
•with Tomato Sauce
1488-A
Isaac Intervenes
A LITTLE STORY WITH A FINE ENDING BY FREDERICK OLVER.
ABRAM LUMBARDY, middle-aged and
undersized, with graceful rotundity of
girth partially concealed beneath a
long frock coat, was seated one morning
behind the ebony desk, among the bronze and
china, in the “von and only genuine antique
shop south of the line.”
As lie peered with watery eye over the
ledger, his wrinkled little mouth expanded in
a grin, and he experienced all the pride of
prosperous ownership.
The figures compensated for Isaac.
Isaac was his son and a daily reminder
that a chip of the old block may sometimes
splinter with the grain. Isaac's name was
certainly coupled with his own on the
window pane, but that was merely a display
of early parental ambition, for Isaac had
long since proved to be the soundest of
sleeping partners whose only interest in Lum-
bardy and Son was a temporary awakening
each pay night. Isaac in no way indulged
in the game of business ; the old man played
it for all it was worth—sometimes with a
double-headed penny. Abram, a Hebrew of
the old school, hoarded tin 1 shekels; Isaac,
being younger, spent them. The old man
would have forgiven Isaac everything else
if he had shown just one spark of parental
heritage. He endeavored by kicks and ha'-
pence to fire it. “You’ll fall asleep valkin’
round one day, my son,” lie said despairingly.
Isaac yawned and selected another cigar-
ette from his case.
A glance over Abram’s extensive stock re-
vealed the secret of his thriving business in
antiques and curios. His twenty-four carat
investment had turned up one day in the
shape of a down-at-heel vendor of oil. paint-
ings. Abram had soon discovered that,
while Salim’s paintings had the finish of an
A.R.A., he was a born ass when it came
to estimating the value of his work; and
many of his paintings had passed through
Abram’s hands leaving a golden streak in
his palm.
“Isaac, my poy,” Abram admonished, “take
no risks unless you are sure of vinning.
That’s the vundamentals of this bisness.”
But Isaac was asleep.
As lie spoke, Abram slid quickly from his
stool, jambed a fat cigar between his lips,
and industriously began to scrutinise a piece
of tapestry with critical eye, keeping the
other turned on old Judge Jackson as he
examined one of Salim’s paintings in the
window*. The old Judge knew the law 7 from
east to west, but his knowledge 1 of art was
not overdeveloped. Abram, dodging the first,
often caught him on the second ; but always
with a funny courthouse feeling playing
round his spine. The clamped lips under the
grey moustache and the glint of the cold
eyes always revived Abram’s past. But
“bisness vas bisness.”
“That picture, Lurrihardy—the price?”
“Thirty guineas, that one,” stammered
Abram, standing in the dock.
“I’ll take it —put it aside for three weeks.
My daughter’s birthday. Note the date!
Certain.”
He scribbled out a cheque and threw it on
the desk. With shaking hand Abram passed
over the receipt.
As the Judge disappeared Abram revived,
tilted his cigar anew, and paced the shop
with joyful step. He stopped abruptly in
his stride as his gaze dropped on another
customer at the desk —a broad-shouldered,
affluent-looking stranger, strangling a roll of
notes in a fist like a prizefighter’s.
“That painting in your window, Ikey
Mo. I’ll take it along now.”
Abram’s jaw 7 dropped. “I haf plenty others
to suit you, Mister,” he said, making for
the window.
“You haven’t. That’s the one.”
Abram’s brain threw a double somersault.
He knew that he could kick Salim into an-
other picture of its kind in three weeks.
Besides, he didn’t like the stranger’s hands.
“Vorty guineas that one, Mister.”
“I didn’t ask the price. Get it wrapped.”
Abram continued his w*alk, glowing in the
pride of salesmanship, until he became aware
of Isaac’s presence in the shop.
“Vot you think of that, my son, for the
strokes of a master? If you’d buck up you
could be as great as me.”
“I think you had better sail round and
interview Salim, father,” returned Isaac.
“No hurry—no hurry, my poy.”
Abram knew* Salim all right, but he didn’t
know Salim’s wife; that is. not as well as
Salim did. She proved the kink in the
scheme when almost three w*eeks later Salim
entered w*itli the new 7 s of the painting’s in-
completeness.
“Yell, hop round and get it finished,”
roared Abram. “I vant it—it’s sold.”
“I can’t,” wailed Salim. “It’s my wife—
we’ve had a row 7. Says she’ll rub the paint-
ing out if I don’t shut up.”
Abram was not unused to the volplaning
of pots and pans himself, but he tossed
Salim into the street without sympathy. “I
vant that picture to-morrow night,” he
yelled. Then he stamped back into the
shop and threw 7 the butt of his cigar into a
gilded jardiniere.
A moment later lie carefully retrieved it,
impaled it upon a pin, and inhaled deeply
the three remaining whiffs. This situation
demanded action, not extravagance.
“How 7 do I get that picture, vill you tell
me that?” he asked the world.
Receiving no Satisfactory reply from the
smiling mandarin squatting on his brass
pedestal, Abram dropped into the chair at his
desk, and his brow w*rinkled. He looked
up at the ceiling; the Judge looked down at
him. He closed his eyes—and stared into
a pair of cold, bright ones. He flicked
them open again, and, saw 7 Isaac reclining
peacefully against the verandah-post-.
Abram spat the bitten end of his new
cigar viciously. Suddenly he straightened.
“Isaac, my son. you hear! A proposition
I haf to make. This is a grand life for you.
but this partnership closes to-morrow 7 mid-
night unless Salim finishes that picture. Vork
it out.”
Isaac rose slowly. This w*as an entirely
new aspect, and the necessity for fresh
air was imperative. In a mind full of haze,
one thing was clear-—the job was on him.
He looked up at the sky for inspiration;
took a turn up the street—and got it
there. A woman gazed in the window of a
garage. The gaze, eager and covetous, rested
on the latest model, and the eyes behind it
belonged to Salim’s wife.
It was only a matter of moments to swing
that gaze from cars to his own manly
form, and thence to a more modest car which
was available for a spin in the, fr'esh air
and open spaces at any time. Would she
come—say to-morrow? She would.
An hour later Isaac explained the cam-
paign to Abram, pointing out, first, the
necessity for a little breakdown along the
route, and, second, the speed with which
Abram was to kick Salim into action in the
few hours at his disposal.
“Did you mention the picture?” queried
Abram with some agitation.
“Certainly not.”
Abram reached out and patted his son's
head.
“Blood vill tell, my sou, in the end.”
The one joy of Isaac’s life was the family
car. It had been sheer extravagance on some-
one’s part ten years before, but Abram had
acquired it for twenty notes —it still hung
together.
Next morning he reclined at the wheel like
a prince, On the spot in the rear seat
where the cushions should have been, Salim’s
wife lounged at ease. They had departed
before Salim had risen from his bed.
The thing was simple.
It was further simplified by a lorry-load
of stone which Isaac tried to shift along
the road. He caught it amidships and cracked
his head against the screen, sending Salim’s
wife in a beautiful swallow-dive to the kerb.
She only came up for air after admittance
to Ward No. 3.
Abram, sorting over the window display
as Isaac suddenly presented a bandaged
head inside the shop,- dropped an ivory ele-
phant among the Sevres.
“Vot’s wrong, Isaac?”
“The car’s insured, ain’t it?”
“Yes—vy
Isaac explained.
Light broke over Abram, and, forgetting
the ivory elephant, he rubbed his hands
joyfully.
“Just a little accident, my poy?”
“Yep.”
“She’s out of the vay?”
“For a fortnight.”
Abram patted Isaac fondly on the
shoulder.
“I vill see Salim —immediately.”
He did. The door bell jerked with a
rattle and Salim jumped into the shop,
three steps in one t He seemed anxio-us to
present Abram with a backhander, but
the ebony desk had suddenly intervened. In-
stead, he smashed a straight left to" Isaac’s
jaw, and Isaac smashed the only Dresden
vase in the shop.
Salim had a grievance. So had Abram
when he knew.
You see, Salim had never painted a pic-
ture in his life; but Salim’s wife —well,
she had!
Old Hearts.
Old hearts had fires that have died down,
But in the ash and embers lurk
Residuums of dead desires,
Dead dreams and joys that irk
No more, as erst, the longing breast:
Old hearts have rest.
Old hearts, with old ears and old eyes,
Out of the moil of things remain :
The pulse is as a tolling bell,
A soft drum in the brain :
As birds that nestle in their nest,
Old hearts have rest.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.
Red.
1 did not know that red could be so rich a
hue
Till yesterday; that at the touch of frost and
dew
The apple-trees could color so the orclnu is
wide
With rosy, luscious fruit, to scent the
countryside;
That red could have a mellow glow as deep
and tine
As quiet, gracious souls, and give its peace
to mine.
I’d always thought of red as deep with preg-
nant fear,
Symbolical of all the things of life that sear
Ihe heart. Of battlefields and stress and
bloody strife;
Of lawless deeds, and hate with which the
world is rife.
But yesterday, companioned with the
friendly red
Of hawthorn berries bright, I trod a road
which led .
To country lanes, all winding joy and glad
surprise
Of ripened hues to greet and charm my
questing eyes.
I saw a robin red upon a wayside fence
Who cocked his eye at me as if to ask me
whence
I came and why. Then, winging low he
flew ahead,
A little, friendly, feathered guide with
breast of red.
Some sturdy pumpkins in a field, each Titian-
crowned.
Were lovely things to see among the leaves,
frost-browned.
GS 'th'ing ll3ll " 1 ' Can a :in< l gracious
As deep and rich as love, and love’s remem-
bering.
But what at dusk most closely touched my
heart, I know, *
Was when I glimpsed a cottage fire’s friendly
glow, J
And trod the narrow garden path that wind-
ing led
To home and love beneath a little roof of red.
VICTORIA.
LUCY HILL.


The Best-laid Schemes.
THE STORY OF AN INVENTION THAT WENT WRONG, BY
CHARLES BLAKE.
PETER CLENAHAN DREW perched
himself on the arm of a chair whose
seat was occupied by an untidy mass
of papers recently ejected, holus-bolus, from
the kitbag of Paul Clenahan Drew, Peter’s
younger brother, managing director of the
motor-importing firm of I\ C. Drew, Ltd.
Both were over fifty, rosy of gills, scant of
thatch and plump of body, but there the
resemblance ceased. Peter, Professor of
Electrical Engineering at a great Austra-
lian University, had all the culture of the
family. Paul had most of the money —he
counted as many thousands in his income
as Peter had hundreds. Both bachelors,
each possessed of an excellent conceit of
.himself, they despised and admired each
other in about equal proportions. They
never met without bickering.
Paul, seated at; a roll-top desk that exuded
bunches of crumpled papers at every pigeon-
hole, had committed himself to a statement
that he was prepared to defend to the last
ditch. “I know what I know,” he declared,
pounding the very small portion of his blot-
ter which was not encroached upon by docu-
mentary debris. “An’ my information is
exact. Gotter be. Us business men wc
ain’t got no time for guesses and maybes.
Here’s me controllin’ a great organisation,
a captain of industry as you might say, an’
I know every detail about it —freights, in-
surance, rates of exchange, costs of packin’,
distributin’, retailin’; every darned tiling. I
can show you a chart” —here lie burrowed
madly into the chaos of papers and then
foraged amongst the pigeon-holes. He found
not what he sought. Not in the least non-
plussed he roared “Jimmy!”
Jimmy, a small dark young man, with a
hunted expression and the faithful eyes of
a fox-terrier, materialised as if by magic.
Peter looked under the well of
the desk as if he suspected the
apparition had been lurking
there.
“Jimmy,” said Paul magisteri-
ally, “where’s that costin’ chart
McDoodle gave me yesterday?”
“Took it home in your bag
last night, sir,” announced
Jimmy succinctly.
“Of course,” said Paul trium-
phantly. “It’s on the chair
there. ' Find it for me, that’s
a good chap.”
Jimmy attacked the pile on
the chair like a terrier after a
rat. “Not here, sir,” he an-
nounced at length.
“Not there? Whatcha mean?
It’s gutter be there!”
“Well, it ain’t,” said Jimmy
decisively.
A light seemed to break in
on Paul. “Of course it ain’t!”
he roared. “I gave it back to
McDoodle this morning. Go and
get it from him.”
Jimmy departed.
“No initiative, no memory, no
system,” mourned Paul, “I
gotter be the brains, the memory,
the boiler, the engine and the
darned governor of the whole
works.”
“I don’t know what you’d do
without Jimmy, all the same,”
remarked Peter, drily.
Paul snorted.
“You can snort,” said Peter
unmoved, “but you’re an untidy,
unsystematic old beast, and you
don’t appreciate loyal service.
How much are you paying
Jimmy?”
“Five quid a week,” said Paul
between snorts, “and I’ll bet he
has pickings on the side. Oh,
Peter, you’ve no idea what
opportunities these here confi-
dential employees have of
featherin’ their nests. I don’t
know nothin’ —I mean anythin’
—against Jimmy, you unner-
stand me, hut they’re all the
same—bitin’ the hand that feeds
’em.”
“Jimmy’s worth twelve pounds
a week to you, you old miser,”
said Peter, “and if he gets it
out of you I don’t blame him. But I didn’t
come to your pigsty to talk about your serfs.
D’ye know anything about radio and mathe-
matics?”
“I got the most expensive radio set in
this city,” began Paul belligerently. “Six-
teen valves; an’ I've read every bloomin’
book on radio I could buy. As to mathy-
matics, that ain’t commercial. Good old
simple arithmetic is good enough for me.
Two an’ two makes four an’ twice two is
four, two into four goes two, an’ two from
four leaves two, an’ that’s all there is to
figurin’.”
“H’m.” Peter seemed amused. “I sup-
pose you think any sort of a sum of a prac-
tical kind must have a definite answer?”
“Don’t be a fool, Peter,” snapped his
brother. “Stands to reason.”
“All right, Paul,” smiled Peter demurely.
“I’ll give you a little sum and you can
work it out. What are the dimensions of
this little pigsty of yours?”
“Eight by eight exactly,” said Paul.
“You can’t catch me out on any detail con-
nected with this business.”
“All right,” Peter went on soothingly.
“Now, what’s the distance from corner to
corner?”
“.Timmy,” yelled Paul, “bring me a two-
foot rule.”
“You don’t want a rule, you old fool,”
said Peter. “This is a sum. Now I’ll tell
you how to get the answer. The length of
the diagonal of a quadrangle is the square
root of the sum of the squares of two sides.
The squares in this case are 64. and the
diagonal, expressed in feet, is the square
root of 128. Now I’ll tell you something.
Arithmetically you’ll never get that diagonal
exact. If you work it out in either decimals
or continued fractions it’ll go on for ever.
You’ll get a little nearer to it at each stage,
hut you’ll never get it exact. It’s what we
call a surd.” , ,
“Surd! I call it absurd!” growled
Paul. , XT
“It may seem so to you, but it isn t. Now
look here. Suppose you had to find a
wave-length in radio that was a surd, how
would you go about it?”
“Simple,” said Paul. “Twirl the knob
till you strike it.”
“Quite right, Paul. There must be some
point on the dial at which you would strike
exactitude, though you could never figure it.
You might have to use a micrometer to crawl
up to it, but you’d get it.”
“Well, what of it?” snapped Paul. “Has
some cranky professor of electrical doodads
invented a cockeyed wave-length. What’s
his station? I’ll get it if I have to put on a
clock gear that’ll search the dial for
billionths.”
“Admirable, Paul,” purred Peter. You
have got it. In practical mechanics and
finance I never saw your equal. That’s where
I need you ; not for the mechanics, but for
the finance. I am an inventor.”
“You gotter show me!” Paul was immedi-
ately on guard. Peter could see him men-
tally buttoning his pockets.
“Oh, I’ll show you quick enough,” Peter
reassured him. “I’ve brought the contrap-
tion along. It’s an appliance to help poor
old captains of industry who are being
robbed by their wealth-bloated parasites.
What’d you give to know what, Jimmy
thinks of you, and how he works those
nefarious swindles that you suspect but can’t
discover?”
“It can’t be done!”
“But it can!” Peter went outside and
returned with a bulky brown-paper parcel.
Deftly snipping the string with his penknife,
THE BEAUTY PARLOR.
w hat looked like an ordinary
radio receiver with two dials and a pair
ot - wba t se emed to be rubber pudding basins
attached to twisted cords of insulated wire.
“Lock that door,” said Paul, his interest
aroused. “We’ll give the thing a try-out,
but \ don’t want anyone to know my
brother’s .gone loony and infected me.” Peter
obeyed.
“This,” said Peter, assuming unconsciously
bis lecture-room manner, “is what I call a
.mental communicator and amplifier. The
human brain emanates electrical waves, but
the impulses are infinitesimally small and
vary in length with every individual I have
tested. It has taken me fifteen years to
amplify and rationalise thought-waves. Tut
011 that cap on the left, I aul.
Paul assumed the strange headgear, and
Peter donned the other. “This dial on the
light,” he explained, “is set to my wave-
length. Now I have to find yours.” He
pressed a button on the top of the machine
and the pointer of the left-hand dial began
to moV e—very, very slowly. Then a red bulb
g ] owe( j so ftly and he lifted his finger.
“N ow I’ll tell you your inmost thoughts,
Paul. You are thinking that I am probably
suffering from delusions, but that, if I’m not,
there’s an awful lot of money in this inven-
tion. You can already see yourself buying
the thing from me for twenty—thirty—fifty
pounds, and making as many hundreds of
thousands out of it. You have, quite un-
known to any of us, you dirty dog, been
conducting a liaison with a Mrs. I aimer,
and you are quite aware that the new tin
company of which you have become a direc-
tor will go phut within three months. You
have been”
At that point Paul tore the rubber cap
from his head with a terrible swear-word.
His little eyes glared at his brother with a
strangely mingled expression of rage, re-
spect and suspicion. “Been putting detec-
tives on me, Peter?” he snarled. “Two can
play at that game. I learned a thing or
two about you just now !”
“Don’t bother to mention them,” said
Peter easily. “I never had the slightest
curiosity about your private or commercial
life, and what little I’ve just learned about
both hasn’t cultivated an appetite. Put that
cap on again and I’ll prove my claims up to
the hilt. Now,” as Paul sullenly obeyed,
“think of some secret that nobody but your-
self could possibly know. Quite so. Thanks.
The combination of your private safe, which
is bolted underneath your bedstead, is
A.P.9316.”
Paul moistened his lips with a dry tongue.
“You win, Peter,” he said. “By God, it
works! What’ll you take for the patent
rights? Mind you, I can’t offer you cash, but
I’ll give you half the shares, less one, an’
me an’ you’ll be millionaires.”
“No, Paul,” said Peter scornfully. “You’ll
learn in time never to discuss business —
your sort of business —with one of those
caps on. But I’ll tell you what I’ll do. I’ll
let you have the concern on appro, as I be-
lieve they say in vour trade, for a week.
Try it right out and tell me how you get on.
Then maybe we’ll talk business —my sort of
business.”
Just after Peter’s departure Jimmy re-
turned, hot and breathless, with McDoodle’s
chart. Paul took it and thrust it into a
pigeon-hole. He had forgotten he had asked
for jt. “Sit down there, Jimmy,” ne said
affably. “I want you to listen in on my
new radio set. Put that thingummybob on
your nut.” Jimmy meekly obeyed. That
was the sort of thing Paul was always doing,
inflicting his own hobbies and enthusiasms on
his staff, and Jimmy took it all as part of
the day’s work. Paul donned the other cap
and pressed the button till the red bulb
glowed. They sat in silence a while. Then
Paul took off his headpiece. “Nothin’ cornin’
through, Jimmy,” he said with a crafty
smile. And then, formidably. “D’ye know
what I’m going to do with you?”
“Yes,” said Jimmy. “You’re going to over-
look that little matter of the stamps and give
me a rise up to seven quid a week.”
“Quite a mind-reader, ain’t you, Jimmy?”
chuckled Paul. “You’re right, lad. I’ve got
a pretty big opinion of meself, but it doesn’t
come up to your measurements. All you’ve
got on your conscience is three penny stamps
you nicked three years ago. I’ve got more
than that on mine.”
“Yes, sir, I know,” said Jimmy quietly,
“Th’ hell you do! H’m. Ah, yes! Of
course you would. But you don’t intend to
tell what you know, and I know you don’t
intend to tell. I m a good judge of men,
Jimmy, an’ when I picked you as my sec-
ertary I didn’t make no mistake. There’s
always advancement waitin’ in this firm for
any man that gives loyal service, an’ you’ve
given that. Shake hands, Jimmy.”
Jimmy went out sorely bewildered. His
faith in his boss, which was enormous, was
not in the least shaken by the glimpse lie
had had into Paul’s secret thoughts. Great
men, lie felt, were not to be judged by such
humble standards as his own. But who
would have suspected that the old man was
getting commissions three ways out of that
tyre deal, and double-crossing the distribu-
tors and liis own co-directors? It was clever
of him. too, to let a faked balance-sheet,
showing heavy losses, get into the hands of
some of the biggest shareholders, enabling
him to buy in a controlling majority of
shares at half par :iust before the annua!
meeting and the disclosure of record profits,
He was a wise old bird, was Paul Clenahan
Drew. But Jimmy locked these reflections in
his own breast, and didn’t even tell liis wire.
Greater discretion hath no man than that.
When Professor Drew next breezed into the
office he got a curt reception. “There’s your
box of tricks,” said Paul shortly. “Take it
away. I don’t wanter have nothin’ —any-
thin’—to do with it. You theoretical fellers
are clever, but you ain’t clever enough.”
“But it works,” protested the astonished
Peter. *.
“I know it w«*rkSj but it works both ways.
It ain’t no use to us captains of industry,
y’unnerstand me, because for this reason.
Y’ can’t do business with it. If the other
feller knows what you're thinkin’, what tli
hell’s tli’ use of knowin’ what lie's thinkin .' I
“I suppose you’re right, Paul. I never
thought of that. Bringing the thing to you
was more or less of a joke, anyway. What
I’m really interested in is the principle. It
is, if I may permit myself to brag, a rather
important discovery. Did you give it a try-
out? 1 notice Jimmy’s looking a lot hap-
pier than lie used to.”
“Yes, 1 did try it out —on Jimmy. Simply
good judgment on my part. As I’ve always
told you, Jimmy’s as straight as a die an'
as close as an oyster. It didn’t do no harm
with him. lie thinks I’m the next thing in
creation after God A’mighty. But if it
hadda been some of them others —flooey!”
“Blackmail?”
Paul nodded. “Not but what I’ll say it’s
a dam’ clever invention,” he remarked mag-
nanimously, “but what the devil use it’s
ever goin’ to be to anyone beats me.”
“I’m afraid,” said Peter whimsically, “its
application will have to be limited to the
pure in heart.”
“Pure in heart be sugared !” snorted Paul.
“There ain’t nobody that’s pure of heart.
Not even Jimmy. Would you believe me
when I tellya he nicked three penny stamps
outer the petty-cash box three years ago, an’
he ain't put 'em back yet!"
Meditation.
Sweet in the dewy dark the crickets chirp,
As haply by my grave they some night will
Under the stars ere the moon comes with her
Embodied beauty over the dark hill.
But I shall not know of it —not as now
Smell the moist blossom on the lilac bough,
Or feel in myself what it is to be
Intoxicate with Nature’s poesy.
Another then encliarmed may sighing make
A song of it all for its beauty’s sake,
As still the crickets chirp, the lilacs bloom;
Unweoting that somewhere within his tomb
A singer’s laid, whose heart then no more
will,
As his, so to the night’s enchantment thrill,
Whose feet, as many a bard’s before, had
trod
A dewy garden in a dream of God.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.
Hills.
Cold blue against the sky I see them stand,
My solitary hills I love so well.
Tender as hyacinth and wild bluebell,
They ring with sapphire all this pleasant
land.
I watch them from my garden, shade my
hand,
And see them dim to heights I cannot tell,
Or from some sad aild lonely little dell
My soul communes with them at their com-
mand.
And then my spirit lonely is as theirs.
And then my body incorporeal seems.
My eyes are one with lights not of the earth.
1.0 ! i am hushed in unimagined airs.
Space thrills me with the secret seed of
dreams,
And I am lost in God’s eternal birth.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
The Two Songs.
I know a little mountain creek,
Spanned by a rustic bridge,
That sings a low-toned water-song
Beneath a timbered ridge.
At times by steely starshine lit,
At times by moonlight wan,
Not happiness, not all-content,
It voices questing on.
By day unheeded is its note,
But when still midnight comes.
Heard is its song by bending oaks,
And heard by brooding gums.
To them, fast-rooted in the soil,
Of pauseless journeying
By night and day from peak to sea
It seems to sigh and sing.
“How good is rest,” it seems to sing,
“How sweet like you to be,
Oh bending oak, oh brooding gum,
Who sleep so sound by me!”
Yet now and then,' while o’er the ridge
Night-owls a-hawking flit,
The trees, awakened by a wind,
Take voice, and answer it.
“Fast held are we,” they seem to sigh,
“Fast-rooted all life through ;
How good it were to questing go,
How sweet to be like you!”
Thus, thus at times, unheard by man,
While hour and hour creep by.
To that low-murmured water-song
A wind-song makes reply.
N.S.W.
Roderic Quinn.


Children
enjoy
sd
it makes them
Wellandstrona
In 4 sizes
©fall Chemists & Stores
16.
BUTTONING UP THE PURSE
is an out-of-date phrase, but the principle holds good; yet
there is a better way of saving money than by merely refrain-
ing from spending it. ■'
Money in your pocket, or your purse, is practically money
spent, for it is too readily available for every whim to buy
this or that unneeded trifle.
Save in the modern way. Open a Commonwealth
Savings Account and let the pounds and the shillings and the
pence work for you.
There is a Savings Bank Agency in every Post Office.
CoiKonwealib lank of Huslralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
WE ARE THE AGENTS.
THE "BULLDOG”
HAMMERLESS
GREAT
GUN AT A
LOW PRICE
THE BULLDOG is the wonder Gun for £B/10/-.
Quadruple bolted, with side clips, fluid steel barrels,
guaranteed Government tested for any charge. It
fits the shoulder perfectly, and is beautifully balanced.
HOLLOWAYS, the Gem of English Guns. Hit hard,
carry far, throwing surprising patterns. Prize
winners everywhere. £ll to £65. Unbeatable.
THE FOX D.B. Wonderful Hammerless, with or without
Ejector. They kill at remarkable distances. £l3 & £l5.
WESTERN ARMS CO. GUNS, £4& £6. Great field guns.
Special concessions to promising shots. A week’s Free
Trial given. Obtainable everywhere, or write the
Agents for Catalogue.
S. COHEN, SONS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
HARDAVARE MERCHANTS,
262 Queen Street, Melbourne; & Ballarat.
Agents wanted where not represented.
THE PURE OF HEART
BY MARGARET FANE AND HILARY LOFTING.
BERT’S sister Alice put down her cup.
“Oh, did you hear about Mrs. Gomez
at the fruitship, Bella —you know,
the pretty one?”
Bella’s gaze flickered warningly from Alice
to Gran and back to Alice. “Yes, I heard.
Have another cup of tea, Alice?”
Bella made as much as she could of
Alice’s cup and putting milk and sugar in
it. but Alice always was stupid. “I think
little Gomez was quite right to turn her
out,” she ran on. “He may not be much
of a man, but still she married him and
when it comes to a man’s own Dago assistant
in the shop”—-
“Another scone, Alice?” Bella’s warning
flicker was a black menace by now, and
so obvious that even Alice saw it and was
puzzled by it.
“But you can’t really blame the woman,
can you?” Alice persisted. “Not when you
remember”
“Lily!” Bella’s summons was a cry of
desperation. “Lily! Bring that other batch
of scones in, will you?”
“Righto, Mother,” came muffled from the
kitchen. “Half a shake.”
“I see where Hoots Mon is scratched for
tile Summer,” Bert put in, and was astounded
by Bella’s sudden interest in racing informa-
tion. That and Lily’s entrance with the
scones at last dragged Alice away from Mrs.
Gomez.
Bert beamed at Lily. “Yon were on a
new dress with Hoots Mon, Lilybird,” he
told her. “I’ll have to find it somewhere
else for you now, eh?”
“Too right you will, Dad. Eighteenth
birthday next week—-there ought to be some-
thing doing. Like some fresh tea, Mother?
The kettle’s boiling.”
“Yes, please, dear.” Bella, too, beamed
in looking at Lily; her voice was a caress.
‘Don’t stir it —I’ll pour Gran’s second cup
?ut first.”
“Righto,” Lily said again and took the
teapot. “Gran likes her tea genteel, don’t
you, Grannie?”
“It’s only the way I’ve been used to. my
dear,” Gran’s placid old voice said. “You
can’t change at my age.”
“Lily’s looking well, isn't she?” Bert said
to Alice.
“A\ r hy, no, I didn’t think she was looking
too good, Bert. She didn’t use to be so pale
and serious-looking. Too much dancing and
pictures, if you ask me.”
“AVell, you’re only young once, that’s what
I say. _ And why shouldn’t the kid have a
good time?” Bert glanced round the table
as if he were challenging those present to
deny Lily that right.
“Of course, it’s not my business,” Gran
was careful to point out, “but I think she’s
been looking a bit peaky lately.”
“Oh, rot!” Bert said rudely. “She’s all
right, isn’t she, Mum? Couple o’ good
nights’ rest and she’ll be right as rain.”
“I think she’s all right, Mother.” Bella
looked at Gran. “Girls at her age often
go off-color for a day or two, you know.
And she’s going to bed early to-night.”
Alice looked up. “AVhat, not coming to
the pictures with us, isn’t she?”
“No. She was late last night and wants
a rest. The boys’ll be late, but AA r innie
from next door said she’d look in to keep her
company.” Bella glanced at the clock. “AVe’d
better make a start if we don’t want to be
late.”
Alice and Bert stood up. “But what
about Gran?” Alice asked. “Isn’t she com-
ing? It’s a bosker picture—‘Bed and Bath,’
with Allora Silk and Cortez.”
That warning flickered into Bella’s eyes
again. “Oh, I don’t think it’s the kind of
picture Gran would care about, Alice. You
left your hat in my room, didn’t you?”
A shade of complacency showed in Gran’s
manner as she put her napkin into its ring.
“Girls were brought up differently in my
day, Alice,” she said tranquilly. “AVe were
taught that certain things were not for us to
know, and we took a pride in not knowing
them. These pictures you’re all so fond of
seem to forget that. So there are very few
of them that Bella cares to let me see. I’m
sure I shall be more comfortable up in my
room.”
From the window of Gran’s room you
could see one of those corners in Glebe where
the old and the new meet and jostle. On
the diagonally-opposite corner a church slept
far back in a tangled churchyard, lighted
shops running garishly up to both boun-
daries of God’s acre. Strident-voiced people
full of laughing life went past the shops,
and at these boundaries became suddenly
silent shadows under the trees overhanging
the churchyard wall, coming to life again as
they emerged into the other light. You could
see them all the time as they passed under
the churchyard trees, but they were softened
into shadows, and were all the better for it,
Gran thought.
For the most part these pasesrs-by were
different people every night. Some of them
came two nights running to Mr. Gomez’s
big shop for ice-cream or fruit, and then
disappeared for a week. Some of them came
on Friday nights only. Some of them came
once and never came again. One of them
came every night.
Not that she went into Mr. Gomez’s shop,
except when she had company. But every
night she walked slowly and invitingly down
the white glare of the shops, became suddenly
a wistful shadow at the churchyard corner,
and loitered into the farther light, smiling
again her stiff smile.
To-night Gran xvalked to the window and
stood watching for a moment, as was her
habit. Yes, there she was —Bella and Alice
and Bert had just passed her. Now she
was a ghost under the trees for a moment;
and now she came to life again—a slow,
weary life that had no secrets in the harsh
glare of the lights.
Gran had never quite satisfied her con-
science about looking so much and so often
at this girl; she was so emphatically one
"From the window Gran could see the woman’s grave eyes looking up at her!"
of those things it was not for ladies to
know. Yet, somehow, it seemed right that
an old woman could look out of her shelter
at the unsheltered in pity, even if the
pity was most often horror. But it was
always with a feeling of relief that she
turned back into her room.
Here she could shut the world out; could
forget that there was a girl out there with
tired grave eyes who yet had a low laugh for
any man who seemed to pause in his walk.
This was Gran’s refuge from the things -she
mustn’t understand. All her defences were
about her here. The big four-posted bed in
which Bella had been born, in which Jim —
dear Jim!—had died, and where she, too,
would die, please God. The little case of
books that Jim had chosen for her —not the
sort of books that Bella got from the library,
but suitable books, books that Jim had
known slie wouldn’t be afraid to read. The
crochet mats, the glass case ;of flowers
and fruit, her inlaid sewing-table, her be-
loved hand-painted toilet set—Jim’s first
present after her wedding-day—her pile of
knitting on the table, just as she had left
it when she went downstairs to tea: these
were her armor. She had done her duty
all her life, and now that she was coming
nearer to the end, in here she was safe.
She straightened a vase on its mat,
glanced contentedly round the room, and sat
down to her knitting. Bella understood ; she
was a good daughter, and she knew that her
mother was happier left out of picture
parties and distractions that might embarrass
and offend her. Bella kept the world away
from her as Jim had kept it. And that was
the right way; she was very fortunate to
be living here at her age with a daughter
who understood life so well. In her half-
complacent tranquillity Gran continued to
knit in her refuge, looking up every now and
again at her placid, guarding room.
In one of these glances her eyes lingered
for a moment on the hand-painted bowl and
jug. There was something different there;
she felt that something was wrong, some-
thing missing—she sat upright and put
her knitting on the table. Goodness gracious,
she’d left her soap-dish in the bathroom,
her treasured hand-painted soap-dish.... In
a moment she was hurrying along the corri-
dor.
Passing Lily’s room on her way back she
was conscious of a dry sound that seemed to
be whispering forlornly in the night. Lily
sobbing? Gran put her hand on the door-
knob, but a voice sounded from the other
side of the open transom.
“But, Lily,” it was the voice of Winnie,
next door, “why don’t you tell your Grannie
if you can’t tell your mother?
She’s old. and old people are
kind. Life makes them kind
and understanding.”
“Tell Gran !” Lily’s shaking
voice broke in. “Oh, I couldn’t,
I couldn’t. She’s worse than
mother.” The voice paused and
the dry, forlorn sound came
again, and the murmuring
sounds of AVinnie’s comforting.
For a long moment Gran
stood outside in the corridor,
her soap-dish in one hand and
the other resting lightly on the door-knob.
But presently the hand came away from the
door-knob. It was nothing to do with her;
Lily obviously didn’t wish to give her her
confidence, whatever it was. It was always
best to let sleeping dogs lie. And, if Lily
really needed her-—why, she was there in the
house to speak t 0....
Back in her room, she put the soap-dish
carefully in its place and crossed to open
the window a little more. The night seemed
to be very hot, even to old bones.
Yes, there she was, standing in the glare
of the big light at the corner. She seemed
to be looking up at Gran, and her eyes were
spent and weary. A passing youth paused
and spoke to her, and she turned to him at
once with her ready automatic smile. For a
moment they chattered and laughed under
the harsh light before they turned and be-
came shadows vanishing side by side past the
churchyard wall. Gran shuddered and drew
the curtains across her window, though the
night was hot, even to old bones.
❖ i'fi ❖ :!«
To Gran, in the few days that came and
went, Lily seemed to become peakier and to
lose a lot of that fresh beauty which made
her so popular with the young people. But
it was very hot, and Gran spent a great deal
of her time knitting in the cool quiet of
her room. Once or twice downstairs she
had caught Lily’s eyes looking wearily at
her with a half-question in their depths;
but the child didn’t say anything. It would
all come right in the end, no doubt, what-
ever it was.
From her window she saw the people
going back and forth from the lights to
the shadows, that one figure beginning its
pilgrimage at the fall of every night. Watch-
ing her, Gran seemed to feel herself
approaching dimly the fires of an unknown
life. It was as if she could hear sometimes
the noise of a battle far away. This was
terrifying; but some power in it made her
watch the slow-pacing figure until she could
believe sometimes that only herself and the
tired woman were alive in the world, these
spent noises of the battle in their eai - s.
Often Gran thought that the woman
looked up at her window, so that she could
see her grave eyes looking back at her. The
eyes had no expression but their gravity and,
very rarely, a flicker of wonder and longing.
This, too, put its touch of panic on Gran’s
heart; but she returned always to the
window, staring down into the street with
unsatisfied eyes until the heavy figure
loitered into sight.
Thoughts half-shaped themselves and
fumbled away again. If there could be
such a thing as courage in defeat, as steadi-
ness in the waters of degradation! Night
affer night this woman came out here,
smiled and paused, was growled at, per-
haps cursed, and went on, to smile and pause
at the next lifted eyebrow. Night after night,
she laughed and bandied words with the
loose, the riff-raff of a world that was a closed
book to Gran. She was as constant as the
shadows of the trees on the footpath. There
was terror in that, too, but wonder also,
and a shadowy something greater even than
wonder.
No turmoil had ever penetrated Gran’s
sanctuary; Jim and Bella and she herself
had seen to that. AVhat must be must be,
she knew; but not all the world need soil
its fingers with it. Yet the strife, the lift
in that unknown world beyond her de-
fences was slowly putting some deep com-
pulsion on her, forcing her to make
r00m....
That longing flashed into the grave, steady
eyes staring up at her window, and she
surrendered to the compulsion, lifting her
hand and beckoning.
$ ii- Jfc
“But surely you must be pained and
shamed?” Gran asked bewildered. “Some-
times the —the degradation must seem more
than you can bear?”
The heavy, tired woman in the other arm-
chair laughed shortly. “Lord, no!” she said.
“What’s the good of growling?”
“Yes, but” Gran paused.
“Well, some of us have one job and some
another. It takes all sorts to make a world.”
The bold haggard eyes swept round the room.
“You’re snug in here,” she said, her husky
voice falling a note. “Lord, you don’t know'
how good it is to rest.” The heavy figure
settled itself luxuriously back in the arm-
chair. The woman was not young, and Gran
was suddenly glad that she was resting in
one of her chairs.
“But,” Gran began gently, “what began
this—this job of yours? What started you—
not being able to get another job?”
The eyes staring at Gran became abruptly
hard. “You get it a bit wrong about the
job,” she said. “It has its ups and downs
like any other, of course; but there’s a
good deal you can say for it.”
“You didn’t answer my question,” Gran
reminded her. “What began it?”
Her gaze left Gran’s face and fell half-
sullenly to her hands. “Oh, a bit of a mis-
take I made. And mother wasn’t one you
could talk to.”
The fading noises of that battle seemed to
sound again in Gran’s ears and in the
woman’s softened, grudging voice.
“But what’s the odds if you don’t
weaken?” She looked up again and laughed.
“Sometimes you pick up a couple of quid
and can take a spell. Sometimes you don’t,
too. I know. But you never know your
luck.”
The deep fatigue in her eyes and slackened
figure belied the reckless confidence in her
voice. She looked round the room again,
a fugitive wild regret pinching her heavy
lips for a moment.
“Then the life is really hard, is it?” Gran
asked gently.
“It’s funny, but it’s in me feet I feel
it most.” She looked down at her shoes,
(Continued on page 57.)


Banking, Public Companies, etc. !
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD. ,
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £6,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 .. £18,366,297
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman ;
Fkank N. Yakwood; H. R. Lysagiit, 0.8. E. ;
Gkorgb J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICIO, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MET,BOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors:
A. Dodds FAinßAinN, Alfred Shepherd, James Tore.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New i
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and VVYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLL.INS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988 I
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000 j
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 374,197
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000 I
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3.609,655 I
GRANTS DRAFTS 0,1 Australia > New
Ul\Ad 1 UXV AT A O Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS f or int S
periods and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUiH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE'S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
. . £2,000,000
. . 1,250,000
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
. . £1,250,000
970,000
£2,220,000
Reserve liability of shareholders . . 1,250,000
£3,470,000
Also 111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.O.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
** should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices. 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and . obtaiu information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne
A ROYAL
Ml Good
Hotels and
Tobacconists
fs
25 Cigars,
12/6
50,23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address.
r
r Sampler Box
'containing two
cigars, ts. Post
free.
CraiggAitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors for Club
Weil Cigar Factory.
Shipping, etc.
fife
; 7.v
t/p.
"Jk
r
v,— “*i
Hawaii
Leave Winter Gladly
For Glorious Honolulu
Picturesque Auckland, favorite
seaport of Northern New Zea-
land; sparkling Suva, glowing
in varied colors, like a gem of
many facets in the silver setting
of a coral reef; far-famed Hono-
lulu, treasure palace of a thou
sc. ud novel sights and starry
nights: these await Australians!
Return Excursion
(from Sydney)
First Saloon . . £75
Second Saloon. £55
TAIIITfAN TOURS
An alternative
winter holiday
in the South Seas
presents itself in
the Union Com-
pany’s excursion
trips to
Rarotonga and
Papeete—
coral sisters in
Tahitian waters.
EVERY luxury of sea travel is enjoyed on
the palatial Canadian-Australasian liners
by excursion passengers to Honolulu. The
round trip costs little more than a city holiday.
The Aorangi will leave Sydney on July 26.
Particulars and literature from Union Steam
Ship Co., Union House, 247 George Street,
Sydney.
Visit Pacific Isles!
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by AH Steamship Lines.
Choice of Any Route. Without Extra Charge,
From AUSTRALIA to
ENGLAND
FRANCE
ITALY
GERMANY
AMERICA
CANADA
MEXICO
AFRICA
JAPAN
EGYPT
INDIA
CHINA
I r=
% £
Also attractive tour 3 to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji, etc.
AUSTRALIA TO
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly sailings maintained by the popular
steamers “MARELLA” and “MALABAR” from
Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane, via Queensland
Ports, Torres Strait, Darwin, etc.
South Sea Island Tours
Solomon Islands S.S. “MATARAM,”
Visiting 24 Island Ports.
New Guinea S.S. “MONTORO,”
Visiting 16 Island Ports.
For Reservations and Information apply: —
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. And all Branch Offices
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE LIABILITY
dfs
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,600,000
£20,650,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Eso.
Auditors : S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 3.
518 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Gallic remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 3,950,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,428,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE J. COHEN. Chairman ; Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.;
OWEN E. FRIEND ; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, C.8.E.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Bircldn Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria, at Adelaide, South Australia,
and Canberra, Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and ail other
parts of the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOB MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports ; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports ;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no cargo for Maokay),
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
at Townsville for outports).
PAUSE AWHILE IN SUNNY
HAWAII
Enjoy eternally balmy weather, in novel setting
of tropical moonlight and melody, quaint tea-
rooms and Oriental bazaars. Exciting surfing
and outrigger canoeing at Waikiki. Enchanted
cruises to the lovely islands of Kauai, Maui and
Hawaii. Golf and motor on all principal islands.
A vacation that’s different. Good hotels from
12/- to £3 per day, with meals. No extra
charges for stop-over privilege when en routs
to America or Europe. Round-trip, Sydney and
return, 8 weeks or less (3 or 4 weeks in
Hawaii) can be made for about £lOO to £l5O,
inclusive. Ask nearest travel or steamship
agent: or write Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Dept.
26, Box 241-D, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for full
information, attractive booklet, attaching
advertisement.
PLAN NOW TO ENJOY HAWAII
BRISBANE, viaBYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due, Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE;
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Sing;-', £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, L. run, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Singh', £3/16/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Sing'e, £3/8/*
j NORTH COAST S. N. CO., I/J R.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd
Huddart ParkerL
IWagfiiiflont
Fast Passenger
Stea>nshi;u
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
CollinaStreet, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney,
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
w
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern to
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.


RUB OUT
THE PAIN
AT ONCE
AND
FOR
FVFR
df
sdf
! 'WHk
®-Skefdmv^
L h\Kagnetic
Slniment
Dr. Sheldon's Magnetic Liniment banishes ail pain. It
is the reliable over-night relief. If you are suffering from
a stiff neck, just saturate a cloth with it to-night and wrap
round your neck, and in the morning your neck muscles will
be soft and pliable.
Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment does its work effec-
tively and quietly. It is as pleasant to use as toilet water
and there is no fear that it will blister or hurt the skin.
If your muscles are sore from over-exertion or from over-
work, Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment is the remedy for quick
relief. If you have an aching back, no matter how long it
has been troubling you, one good rubbing with Magnetic
Liniment at night before retiring will make all the differ-
ence. Small size, 1/9; Large size, 3/-.
ffiSkeldonti
*ll \agneilc
JuLmmeni
Hillier’s
Chocolates
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and
mailed to you the day they are made.
FOR.—
Rheumatism
Lumbago
Cuts
Sprains
Bruises
AND AO. KINDS OF
Inflammation
—Prepared Bt—
Sheldon DrugC?
Boston. U.S.A.
10/-, 12/6, 20/- & 30/-
Post free to any address
in Australia.
Send for Catalogue, illustrated
with Reproductions of our
Confectionery, in color.
mM
>
vf f
#i#r '
w
%m
y&
?*• '%
&*“'*: i,C *:*•’
:;;
s»
a
OmjzA OUIUa.
162-166 PITT STREET,
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE & KING STREETS,
CASTLEREAGII STREET
(Next Theatre Royal),
GEORGE STREET
(Next Regent Theatre),
SYDNEY.
What a lovely
Gift!"
and thrust one gingerly out for Gran to see.
“It’s these high heels, you know. You’ve
got to be classy about the feet, and walking
for miles, hour after hour and night after
night.... Look. I’m not so light on me
feet as I was”
Gran looked and a throb of pity shook
her spirit. The needle-pointed high heel of
the cheap shoe had broken away from the
body of the shoe and was spread sideways
under the instep. Every step must have been
torture. The woman was hobbling about in
agony, mile after mile. And her ready laugh,
her jokes with the men down there in the
harsh light. . . .
“And the other one’s no better.” She
thrust it out, and Gran saw the cruel
deformity made by the rolling-over of the
heel so that it was no support at all. She
was practically walking on the ankle-bone.
That pilgrimage from the lights to the
shadows and back was a never-ending tor-
ment. Gran’s heart was on fire with indigna-
tion and pity. “Twelve stone’s no joke to
carry about on that little lot.” the woman
added with her short hard laugh.
“My dear, my deal’,” Gran murmured,
“you must be in torment.”
“Yes, it’s not too clever.”
Bewildered and sympathetically, half in
pain herself, Gran looked vaguely round the
room for help. Something could surely bo
done.
Abruptly she found herself standing up,
her beloved hand-painted bowl in her hands,
the perfume from the bath-salts rising from,
the water. She put the bowl on the floor
before the woman and knelt down.
“Take off your shoes and stockings,”
Gran said.
The woman looked at her. “But,” she
began——- •
“Take off your shoes and stockings,”
Gran repeated softly.
The maimed and chafed feet in her hands,
Gran washed them tenderly, tears gathering
in her eyes and heart that any feet in any
battle could be so mutilated. The far-off
cries came nearer as she felt the relaxing of
the bruised muscles, the healing in her own
softly-moving hands. These poor feet were
surely the only thing to heed; to bring them
back to health was the thing. Tf that could
he kept in mind....
She heard a muffled sound behind her and
turned. Lily stood in the doorway, her eyes
wide in amazement.
“Why, Gran, dear,” she said, “what on
earth are you doing, kneeling on the floor
there with your bowl in front of you?”
Gran turned back. There was no woman
in the armchair. Bewildered, she peered round
the room. Did the woman go out? Did
she get up suddenly and go out? Her eyes
came at last again to Lily’s tired young
face in the doorway. She stood up and
picked up the howl, a longing to put her
arms round Lily rising in her heart.
“Oh, it’s you, my dear, is it?” she said.
“Come in. I want to have a talk with you.”
The Men Who Meet the Sun.
They lift their eyes to sunshine’s glow,
The hills to them are vain ;
They spurn the valleys far below,
They tread the peaks again.
Their banners shine like blazoned gods,
Their arms are silvered spars;
They trample down the jungle rods,
They reach and pluck the stars.
Where mountain tops shout to the sky
And marry with the sun,
You’ll see these men go marching by—
Their race is yet begun.
Our eyes are on the sunshine’s glow,
The hills'to us are vain;
The valley deeps are far below,
We sti’ide the peaks again !
N.S.W.
JOHN BARR.
Drought.
Within the hushed cathedral of the trees
A whisper moves upon the heavy air,
As though one heard the all-but-silenced
prayer
Of earth, athirst for some God-given ease
To its tormenting; the great argosies
Of laden clouds for ever onward fare,
Full-freighted with the comfort that they
bear
Yet may not bring to port. So He decrees.
Plenty will surely come to dearth’s despite;
Yet, though green vistas to my view unroll,
I have felt horror in the hopeless night,
For me—the dust of drought is on my
soul;
I may not ever quite forget again
His hand withheld the solace of the rain.
VICTORIA.
HASEN.
The Dangerous Wife.
ANOTHER OF THE PIQUANT “TWIN BED ” STORIES BY JAMES JAMES.
IT was one of those nights when Babette
preferred to talk. There were others.
“Fancy!” she said. “This street is
going to be famous! We're living next door
to a celebrated divorce-case. It hasn’t
started yet; but I’ve heard all the horrible
details.”
“Not the Blanks!” I exclaimed.
“No; the ones on the other side, the
Commas.”
Well, I didn’t wonder. Babette had sensed
trouble in that quarter long ago. She was
sure that, sooner or later, there would be
a smash.
It had often occurred to me, in the inter-
vals of Babette’s conversation, that the
three houses that stood side by side in
our quiet street typified the three kinds of
marriage. There are only three.
The Blanks’ manage was a perfectly
respectable one. Mr. Blank did the garden,
and Mrs. Blank did the children. There was
a new one every eighteen months. The
Blanks made a hobby of it. The house was
overrun with them, horribly healthy. And
Mr. Blank grew yearly more haggard, and
Mrs. Blank more comfortably stout. Bab-
ette could hot understand why that estimable
lady “let herself go so.”
If I got so flabby as her,” Babette would
remark, “I’d be scared of losing you to the
first flapper that sat beside you in a tram.
I wouldn’t dare to let myself flop like that.
\Ahy, she has got hips like a hippopotamus.
However her husband manages to remain
faithful I can’t understand.”
“Yet,” I reminded her, “those two are
perfectly happy. They have settled down
into a swamp of contentment. They are
submerged in an early-Victorian morass of
respectability and infants.”
“You’d never think when you look at that
thin mournful wreck of a father that he’d
manage to keep up the family tradition,”
murmured Babette. “What does he see in
that great flabby lump?”
“Safety!” 1 reminded her. “He hasn’t a
worry. He knows he could leave his wife
anywhere without the least fear that he
would find her gone, eloped with a handsome
stranger. The poor thing just stays put;
but there are other wives in whom that
would be a highly commendable virtue. He
could lose her in any crowd, and recover
her undamaged. -When she is out shopping
—H’or the kiddies, not for herself—he knows
she will come straight home in time to put
the children to bed. When she goes to
stay with her mother he knows she is not
living a double life.”
“Terrible, isn’t it?” sighed Babette.
Think of the thrills that you’d have lost
if you had been married to her! No ; there’s
no excitement in their lives, except wonder-
ing whether it is to be a boy or a girl.”
“Still,” I mildly reminded her, “they have
got three boys, and I don’t know how many
girls, while I have no male heir to carry
on my family name.”
Some day when I’m quite old, perhaps,”
laughed Babette. “Yes,” she went on more
seriously, “it must be a comfortable feeling
just to let yourself flow over and become
‘Mother’ to your family. I've heard him call
Mrs. Blank ‘mother,’ and then I think of
all the disgraceful and wicked things you
call me. She is the sort of person that a
husband refers to as ‘the wife.’ ”
“She’s an estimable woman,” I said. “Na
breath of scandal has ever disturbed licit
household.”
“I wouldn’t put it past Mr. Blank,
though,” Babette objected. “He’s just the
sly sort of man who peers over his glasses
when a girl crosses her legs in the tram,
and keeps a wavy eye open for women when
they’re stepping into a taxi, and follows a
girl down tlie street gloating over the rhythm
of her hip muscles —and you know in these
tight dresses there is usually a bit of a
roll on—-and speculates over our chests,
and when he’s sitting next to a nice girl in
a tram or a picture-show, unconsciously
presses his knee against her jazz garter.
Men have tried it on with me, dear; but
of course I’ve taken no notice of them. I
don’t know what they get out of it; but
when I’ve caught a glimpse of them I’ve
always found that they were just like Mr.
Blank.”
“Still,” I demurred, “think of the restful-
ness of a home life like theirs. How placidly
they must sleep at night! How nice it
must be, the perfect confidence they possess
in each other! Do you think for one
moment, my dear, that at this moment Mrs.
Blank is snuggling up to her husband as
closely as you are to me? No; don’t move.
I don’t really mind. But I have often
thought that it was time you followed the
excellent example of Mrs. Blank and settled
down.”
“Really,” sighed Babette seriously, “I
think you’re right. I’m much too old to
play up any longer. I should be content
to become ‘the wife,’ and never look at an-
other male. Let’s begin now! Well,” said
Babette, “look at the Commas. At any rate
I don’t go the length of that woman.”
“A fine stamp of woman,” I insisted.
“Most attractive. Often when I’m shaving
I have observed from the dressing-room win-
dow her silhouette in her bedroom, and cut
my chin. On these dull mornings she
thoughtfully turns on the light behind her
to dress.”
“My dear boy,” said Babette cheerfully,
“you know, and I know, that you’d never
dare. I can read you like a book. And if
it ever came to a competition, I know who’d
win. And now she’s gone to the pack. He’s
taking divorce proceedings and sorting out
the richest co-respondents to sue. Still, she
had plenty of excitement in her married’ life,
and probably before it, if all I hear is half-
true. Compared with her, my life has been
horribly blameless. Think of the desperate
adventures she must have had! The expedi-
ents she had to take to deceive her hubby;
the scares she must have got; the plans she
must have made; the terrible lies she had to
invent; the false tears she had to shed ; the
tingling uncertainty, the shuddering silences,
the desperate pretences, the thrilling de-
spairs! Fancy having to go through life
always on tenterhooks, never knowing when
her husband would knock at her bedroom
door! What a life!”
I agreed. “Poor woman!” I murmured.
“I feel sorry for her!”
“That’s right!” snapped Babette. “Of
course, she gets all your masculine sympathy •
you never think of the poor deceived hus-
band.”
“He’s a worm,” I warmly said. “A hus-
band whose wife deceives him is only a fool.”
Bnbette’s measured voice slyly murmured,
But nearly every married woman has to
deceive her husband sometimes, hasn’t she?”
I confess that I did not like the wav she
said thafi After all. I jealouslv reflected
could I be absolutely sure that in all our
married life my adorable wife had been abso-
lutely frank with me? The answer was in
the negative. Being a woman, she was bound
to use other arts when explanations were
(Continued on next page.)


NEXT WEEK
“Shades of Imlay,”
which “The Bulletin” recom-
mends as one of the best of
I. H. M. Abbott’s early-day
stories.
“Tradition.”
A story of Queensland squat-
terdom and family pride by
E. M. England.
AND OTHERS.
*'-€very picture
Zells a st°ry’ *
4111 •?
ipij
BvjV-' ,^r w
Kidney Troubles Age You!
Use Doan’s Pills to Prevent Them.
AT MIDDLE AGE and after, do not be sur-
prised if you experience backache, dizziness
and bladder irregularities. Regard them as early
signs of kidney strain—as calls for help that is
long overdue. Unceasingly, all your life, your
kidneys have been filtering the poisons from your
blood —protecting you from rheumatism, dropsy,
stone formation, sciatica, gravel and lumbago.
Avoid these threatened developments, NOW, by
strengthening the kidneys with Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY,
Mrs. A. Foreman, 45 Rose-street, Darlington, Sydney,
says: “For years my husband followed the occupation of a
miner. Having to work in damp places and on cramped
positions seriously affected his kidneys and he suffered a lot
from backache and other ailments in consequence. His back
was often very painful and it was as much as lie could do to
get about. The pain centred just above the kidneys and he
was conscious of it even at the best of times. To make matters
worse, the kidney secretions were disordered, being thick and
cloudy and difficult to pass. On e day Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills were brought under his notice as a reliable kidney medi-
cine, so he bought a bottle to try them. They acted splendidly,
a course of th e Pills making a perfect cure. He is very gratetul
to Doan’s Pills for the good they did him, and always keeps a
bottle by him in case he should have a return of his old
complaint.”
Two years later Mrs. Foreman says : “My husband is still
well, and has,only Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills to thank for
his freedom from kidney trouble.”
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS are sold by all chemists and
Foster McClellan Co., Proprietors, 15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
DOAN'S
Backache Kidney Pills.
SYDNEY PEOPLE TESTIFY.
A WOMAN’S WORD.
Mrs. H. Gaskill, Church Street, Leichhardt,
Sydney, says: “For a good while one of my
boys suffered from dry eczema, but although
I tried different remedies from time to time,
nothing seemed able to cure this irritating
complaint. Reading an advertisement for
Doan’s Ointment, the thought occurred to me
to get a pot and give it a trial. The soothing
and healing effects of this splendid preparation
were noticeable almost at once, and as I con-
tinued with the treatment there was a steady
and gradual improvement until finally the
eczema had completely disappeared. The cure
has proved permanent, no sign of the complaint
having returned since Doan’s Ointment was
used. I am a great believer in this remedy
now and always keep a tin in the house and
find it invaluable for cuts, sores and other skin
troubles.”
FOR PILES, ECZEMA AND ANY
IRRITATION OF THE SKIN USE
DOAN’S OINTMENT.
A MAN’S WORD.
Mr. Thomas McKeown, 340 Annandale-street,
Annandale, Sydney, says: “For a long my
occupation was such that I was compelled to
spend a lot of time on horseback and was out
in all weathers. Through riding in wet saddles
I contracted a very severe attack of piles, and
the torture of this complaint was at times
almost unbearable. I tried all kinds of oint-
ment and other preparations, but nothing did
me any good and I suffered on in spite of
treatment. Some three or four years ago my
atttention was called to Doan’s Ointment, and
it was spoken of so highly that I bought a pot.
X applied it carefully according to directions,
and in a few days I realised I was using a
splendid remedy. The relief was wonderful,
and as I persevered the pain and irritation
gradually disappeared, one pot of the omt-
ment effecting a perfect cure. I shall always
have a good word to say for Doan’s Ointment.
As a cure for Piles it has no equal.”
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
non-convincing. I knew that in minor mat-
ters she was apt to understate things, such
as kisses; but could I be quite certain that
in larger matters she had been absolutely
loyal to me?
No use worrying about it, though. If she
had, she had; but I was sure of her heart.
“Well, Mrs Comma will get her punish-
ment,” I summed up.
“I bet her husband loves her still,” was
Babette’s verdict. “She must be a most
attractive woman. And think of her life,
so full of emotions! On the stage it is
always the adventuress who appeals to the
public. The patient wife, like, myself, is
always a colorless thing. And, at any
rate, the adventuress has the best time,
while it lasts.”
“Yes,” 1 judged, “on the stage.”
“When I think of all the worries an|d
the excitements Mrs Comma went through,”
began Babette.
“You’re glad that you’ve been a compara-
tively good girl.” I agreed.
“Glad?” cried Babette, “No! Look at my
happily married life! What is it? Dull!
Dreadfully dull! Never had a chance to
play up, even before I met you. Carefully
sheltered from all trouble as’ a girl! Think,
if you can, of our honeymoon ! Is a honey-
moon a failure? The answer is in the affirma-
tive. Marriage, dull, decorous marriage, com-
plicated witli babies —is that the sort of life
for a white woman? And what fun would
you get out of housework every day of your
life? Oh yes, there’s something that the
spinster novelists call the joys of motherhood.
The only people I’ve found who honestly
adore children are the people who haven’t
got them. Angels, they call them ; but are
Babettekins and Penelope angelic? Yes. I
suppose they love their mother, but they
More their dad, who did precious little, com-
pared with me, in introducing them to our
household. Oh, of course, I love the little
darlings, and I’m so thankful we’ve got them,
but you haven’t to dress them and tidy up
after them. Look at Mrs. Comma! She
never troubled herself with babies. She pre-
ferred the grown-up ones, ready-made. And
the times she lias had, while I have had to
stay at home and nurse the children and
cook your dinners and go to bed! Happy ?
Yes, we’re happy, in just the same way as
the cat is happy in front of a warm fire. I
purr, that’s all. And you’re a real darling,
and so dependable; but I could imagine
myself married to other men, and much more
exciting. And that cat next door, not a bit
more attractive than me, has all the fun.
You see, I’m safe, old dear, like money in the
bank. You don’t worry about my vanishing
any more than you do about the bank break-
ing. But banks break, and so do wives. No;
I’m not crying; but I do think there are
many more exciting marriages than ours.”
“True,” I answered. “You certainly can’t
call the Blanks’ marriage wildly gay, but
there is plenty of excitement in our other
neighbors’ house. Our home is in between
these two extremes. One is dull and the
other is dangerous.”
“But every woman loves a spice of
danger,” mourned Babette.
“And you get it,” I cruelly said. “Think
of the worries you cause me, my dear! I
know that you love me, and the kiddies;
but you keep me guessing. I am quite sure
that you never would smash up our home —
quite sure!”
“Quite?” murmured Babette in a happy
croon.
“That’s it!” I bitterly rejoined. “I’m
never quite sure. I know too well how dull
a husband I must be, after all these years,
though I suspect all husbands are the same.
But you keep me guessing, always guessing.
I can’t padlock you, caru I? They did these
things better in the mediaeval age of
chivalry; they liked to make sure. But
these flirtations of yours”——
“I havenft had one for a fortnight,”
Babette cried.
“These continual flirtations of yours,” I
doggedly continued, “keep me always wonder-
ing whether in some moment of excitement
you would go overboard. I often wonder
whether you won’t—or whether you haven’t.”
Babette stopped me with a kiss, and a
“Silly old suspicious thing!”
“But there it is, my dear,” I summed
up. “On one side of us lies safety; on the
other is danger ; and this household is just
between. They talk of the dangerous life;
but there is a worse thing than that—the
Dangerous Wife.”
: Babette cooed with delight. “The dan-
gerous wife!” she ecstatically murmured.
“You are a dear!”
“Yes,” I sadly said. “You always keep
me guessing.”
“But isn’t it just that that keeps you
fond of me?” softly said Babette.
I had a moment of enlightenment. That
was just it. It was just that spice of
danger, that nagging little doubt, that kept
the home alive.
"Don’t worry, old chap,” said Babette.
“My days of exploration are over. I found
that out to-day. Haven’t you noticed that
whenever a male person comes to this
house, he always picks up one of the kid-
dies, or both,-and likes to play with them?
Don’t you see what that means? The little
angels have discovered that they belong to
file female sex, and, in all innocence, can’t
lielj) flirting with everything in trousers.
My day is done; Babettekins and Penelope
have cut me out, their own mother. 1
shall have to sit back and watch them mak-
ing fools of all the boys they meet.”
“They have an excellent tutor,” I re-
minded her.
"But that isn't the worst, old dear. Why,
the little coquettes actually flirt with you.
Yes,” she sighed, “I’ll have to take a back
seat now. I’m finished —well, nearly. By
the way. I was introduced to a most
attractive man this afternoon —-friend of
lMilly’s; married, too; but his wife's miss-
ing or having a baby or something. Wants
me to cheer him up. Asked me to join in
a little theatre party, and a jazz after. Oh,
he included you; but I told him theatres
bored you. It’s quite all right, dear; but
you couldn’t surely object to me having a
little excitement,, all above board, of course?
To-morrow night. I said that would suit,
as it’s your bridge night, and I know you
would hate to miss that, wouldn’t you?
Don’t wait up for me. I’ll be quite all
right. Of course I’ll be able to let myself
in. If I’m nervous I’ll ask him to see me
to the door. Nice old door, isn’t it? You
needn’t leave the hall light on ; I don’t like
the, glare from the lead-lights. So that’ll be
all right, won’t it? I haven’t had the
chance to wear my new frock.”
“The Dangerous Wife!” I bitterly re-
marked. “Yet I don’t know if that is not
the best of all possible lives. We wouldn't
have got on so well all these years if there
had not been that spice of danger.
“Yes,” I said, with the bitter philosophy
that comes to all husbands with attractive
wives—and who had so attractive a wife
as I? —-“yes, perhaps, after all, we have
taken the Better Way. On one side of us
is a matrimonial aeroplane that has never
once taken the air. It lies ignobly unused
and unable to reach the heights. On the
other side is the aeroplane that has gone up
and up and up an.d in the end has utterly
crashed. And here we are on our aeroplane,
adventuring into dangerous regions, falling
into air-pockets, rolling in the storms,
rising into the thin air of the upper regions,
buffeted by all the winds that blow; but
still battling on, still taking risks, still
riding the storm, flying on( and on and on,
with always the possibility of a crash, but
still carrying on. That, my dear, is Life!
The Dangerous Life ! The Dangerous Wife !
“Yes, if I had to choose the dull safety
of mother earth, I would hate it. If I had
to choose the certainty of a crash, you would
hate it, too. No ; let us take the middle away
with the earth below and heaven above,
the Dangerous * Life, piloted by the Dan-
gerous Wife!”
“Now.” said Babette, with a snuggle of
ecstasy, “you can kiss me lots and lots.”
Insurrection.
Great drops are drumming on my window-
pane,
The wind is whistling round the awnings
white.
Why am I so restless, and so fain
To break the bonds that bind me to a
trite
Dull routine that so many simple hearts
Call by the blessed name of Sweet Con-
tent?
Soul, I would have done with these small
parts,
Whims ludicrous and shallow blandish-
ment !
Come, we will launch our ship, and very
soon
Out of this sluggish, this grey, sunless sea,
Will dip deep down into the scented noon
Of a green island looming hazily....
Swell out, ballooning sails! Swell farther
yet!
. Prow, steep yourself within the bitter
brine!
I will be finished with all wan regret;
Salt wind shall sweep this shuttered heart
of mine.
Grey turns to blue, and gaily, one by one,
Small purple islands ride the sapphire sea,
Heave anchor in a port of ease and sun,
Of joyous moons that pour their light for
me.
Moor in the still lagoon. Leap out, leap out!
Over the reef, and ’neath the swaying
trees!
Climb the steep slope where there are put
to rout
Ten thousand perfumes by the naked breeze.
Blow, you warm zephyrs! Colors, riot run !
Birds, loose for me your plumes’ prismatic
sheen!
Here life is young, its race is just begun.
Soft twilight creeps where Day’s hot feet
have been.
And Night drapes her great mantle, deep and
dark,
Across the glooming waters, and lets down
Her velvet limbs athwart the reaches stark
And lifts to her swart brow her starry
crown.
Soul, do you find this freedom rare and
sweet ?
Ah! yon have shed that old and crackling
husk.
Now you ride Destiny with rule complete,
And planets pay you homage in the dusk.
Little shy breezes that daylong have sought
The dappled groves creep out a little while
To sojourn on the sea ; but we are caught
Upon the throne of this enchanted isle.
Soul, we cannot go humbly back as yet,
Too blissful this divinest right of kings.
Indeed, remembering the futile fret
With deep reluctance will we fold our
wings
And slip once more into the groove we knew.
How comes it, Soul, that you and I needs
moan *
For wider spaces, larger spheres than you
Or I, ourselves, have ever gauged or
known ?
QUEENSLAND.
E.M. ENGLAND.


m^-mM
n
Si
II
?v;
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker- Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear— —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency-
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
“««* WEST ' N - S - WAUS
s oK
it*
■: X
y
&-yr-
ce
SUNBEAM fame is world wide. Time and again
Sunbeam efficiency has upheld British prestige
on Land, Sea and in the Air, just as it has
brought lasting satisfaction to innumerable motorists.
For overseas markets the 16-h.p., 20-h.p. and
25-h.p. models are specially recommended. They
are being shipped to and are giving satisfaction in
every part of the world.
For export, all Sunbeam Cars have standard
track, a ground clearance of 9" at the lowest point,
special springing and a larger radiator with tan to
ensure perfect riding and adequate cooling under all
conditions.
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., _ 111-113 K '{ ss ® ll re | t /, d^ b ° Urne ‘
WILLIAMS HILL & CAMERON, LTD., 205-207 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. ARTHUR BALES, LTD., 367 Murray Street, Perth.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 69 Way mouth Street, Adelaide.
MANUFACTURERS: ‘
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Wolverhampton, England.
SPECIAL EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l.
Cables: “SUBEAMOCO.” London. "g
“IXL” Carbide
When forwarding your next order for Carbide
insist on being supplied with
“IXL” Brand.
It is manufactured in Australia
and is guaranteed by the manufacturers to be
at least equal to the British Acetylene
Association standard quality.
When using ‘ IXL/’ Brand you are helping an
all-Australian industry to flourish*
If unable to obtain from your supplier
write direct to the undersigned:
H. Jones & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
HOBART, TASMANIA, Sole Distributing Agents
For
The Australian Commonwealth Carbide Co., Ltd.,
Electrona, Tasmania.
71tlmfaHd
SnaCidh
RuqAa£taque
Team
coma fiom
St.tkknd,
the noma of
RaachanCd
PiMd.
I’
ONLY ONE
Motor boat enthusiasts der
the best in marine engine equij
ment. That is why they us
Kcrmath Marine Engines,
that, too, is the reason why
70% of the leading boat-builders
of the world install Kermath
Marine Engines —“A Kermath
always runs.”
All parts Standard and Inter*
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos —impulse coupling.
I
3 to 150 H. P. T|
1 to 6 cylinders If
4-cycle Engines JJ
HALL BROS..XTD.
Cafeening Co ve
varccumg w.v
(Foot of Willoughov St./
Milson's Point
mmvu » * r r ‘A
North Sidney, N. S. W.
sd
KERMATH
Manufacturing
Company
Detroit, Mich.
U. S. A.
Cable Addres*
Kermath
Marine
Engines
fs
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
E.
Lpost FREE j
THE P.
WA
*
?
b
%
0
Oof
S®\ ?
s®
\6
•* *
# 1
‘Lv 6
l* .ettf .*•* .•••o^A
• ,-•** v v^


TO MAKE A GOOD AUSTRALIAN FENCE
“WARATAH” WIRE NETTING
Guaranteed Even, Reliable and Regular. Well
Galvanised, Full Weight and runs out Straight and Flat.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA TO SUIT AUSTRALIAN CONDITIONS
FROM “8.H.P.” NEWCASTLE STEEL.
IRON
and
STEEL
PRODUCTS
PIG IRON
INGOTS
BLOOMS
BILLETS
TEE RAILS
BRIDGE RAILS
TIE PLATES
BEAMS
CLUTCH BAR
CHANNELS
ANGLES
ROUNDS
TEES
Produced at
Newcastle
Steel Works.
■
TH E
"V p
;#'W
:
8 MBSS
if
m
h\U
%
m
■
•*
■
Mb.
M
df
sdf
s
5
dfs
df
s
dfs
IRON
and
STEEL
PRODUCTS
(Continued)
SQUARES
FLATS
OCTAGONS
REINFORCING
BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL—TAR
TOLUOL
SLAG
SOLVENT
NAPHTHA
NAPHTHALINE
SULPHATE OF
AMMONIA
Produced at
Newcastle
Steel Works,
Views of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company’s Steel Works at Newcastle, N.S.W., showing some of the
Efficient and Up-to-date Methods in Operation.
1. —Portion of the Water Front, showing on the wharf dumps of Limestone from Tasmania and Iron Ore from South Australia.
2.—Jetty for Loading the Iron Ore at Spencer Gulf, South Australia. 3. —The Rail Yard, showing the great steel magnets lifting at one
operation 12 rails each 40 feet long. 4. —The Three Huge Blast Furnaces with a total capacity of 10,000 tons weekly. 5. —The
Wharf at which the Iron Ore is discharged from the Company’s Steamers, showing giant ore bridges and mechanical ore grabs.
6. —The Blooming Mill, showing a bar of white-hot steel in process of operation. 7. —Portion of the Rail Mill. From first to last
all operations are carried out by machinery.
. THE CELEBRATED “8.H.P.” NEWCASTLE STEEL
is used in the production of
“WARATAH” FENCING WIRE
The Finest Fencing Wire made in any part of the world. Will stand the severest straining test —always
even and reliable in Quality.
“WARATAH 8.H.P.” STAR-SHAPED STEEL FENCE POSTS
These posts mark an entirely new development in steel fencing. They are extraordinarily rigid—are fireproof and weather-resistant. They obtain a good
hold in either hard or soft soil. Made in sft. and sft. 6in. lengths. (Special lengths can be supplied.)
WHEN BUYING,
ALWAYS ASK FOR “WARATAH”
Every coil carries the “ Wardian” identification disc.
BRAND
