

W%M
\Br
w\\
>7 7;
jai
jm
&
r
• 5 V.S !
fVI
ia
2*
Wligm
■ m
;=*£»i
lv:
\\
■
6wS
4
W D C H-O WILLS
There's always
a call for
With the Special IvoTy Tips
No tobacco can pass your lips.
€Also and Plain
Jl/Unufadured in your own
cownlvy fvovn ihi finish
Selected Virginia, leaf
Packets of 10— 8°
Packets of 15 — l /#
Teh Bulletin
V/u. j£ 50V f
Vol. 49.—N0. 2529.
Wednesday, August 1, 1928*
Price 6d,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


"■THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
1928 is now ready, and will be for
warded with full particulars and terms on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.*’
Help yourself in time, when occasion needs,
Self-reliant souls win with splendid deeds’-
Help yourself when ill, urge on unafraid,
While you help yourself others add their aid.
Help yourself to health when you catch a cold,
While you idly wait symptoms worse unfold.
Help yourself at once and relief assure—
Promptly take Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
Learn
l^reclflnce
Journalism
at HOME
Tins BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence Colleae
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, *
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name ..
My Address
ILYSAGHT*
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
THE “SWAN”
has a reputation to uphold
4
u
11
has a quality which must be kept
true to traditions.
In a 1 Swan ’ will be found individual
features of perfect craftsmanship making
for longer life and perfect service
the outcome of over 80 years’ experience
in the manufacture of writing implements.
“Swan” Self -Filling Pens from 17/6 upwards.
MABIE, TODD & CO.. LTD.,
Head Office : Swan House, 133 & 135, Oxford St., Loudon, W.X.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, Sydney.
“Swan” Pens, “ Blackbird” Pens, “Swsn ” Ink and
“ Fyne-Poynt” Pencils.
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
MIPIIBI
PEN
Goose it now-use it a lifetime
f° r
0.E.4.
SWAN
PENS
cm{
ALL PENS
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited for old and young. For Coughs.
Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza.
JUj
mitic
TCl'f*
HU
ON
( the Medical World nays:—The Lancet:
Proved to be as effective bactericidallv as is
creosote.” THIS REPORT PROM THE “LAN-
CET” LABORATORY IS UNDOUBTED EVIDENCE
Antiseptic EOF EUMENTHOL jujub es as an
I/O a Tin.
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers ; or
Post Free from the Sole Manufacturers—
Hudson’s Eumenthol Co. Ltd., Sydney,
W receipt ot 1/6 in stamps of any Province,
The Red Page
Marcel Proust
It is good, if rather overwhelming, news
that the publication of the huge, complex
novel of Marcel Proust has now been com-
pleted, six years after his death, by the
appearance of the last volume in French.
The English translator, C. K. Scott Mon-
crieff, is following steadily. Jaking the
novel as eight large volumes, of varied
lengths, the English version, in very good
English indeed, has now reached its fourth
volume.
Proust’s work is now seriously accepted
as a part of English literature, as of all
literature. E. M. Forster said lately that
no novelist anywhere- had analysed the
modern consciousness as Proust had done.
And an American critic, Edmund Wilson,
in a long review that is perforce a pane-
gyric, sums up Proust’s great achievement
in this way: Proust’s books consist of scenes
and experiences passing through the mind
of a character, writing in the first person,
who is shown as defeated by life, and finding
his one compensation for the horror, ster-
ility and despair of the world in artistic
creation.
Many readers, coming to Proust with a
fixed determination to like what they like,
might let themselves be repelled by finding
the narrator to be neurasthenic, weak-willed
and exasperating in his inconsequences. It
was such a person, however, who could best
act as a sensitive plate to reveal the life
that Proust had to reveal. Only such a
person, with Proust’s own qualities added,
could have been interested enough in the
life that had flowed round him in his youth
to reproduce it in such detail and color,
writing the whole of “Remembrance of
Things Past” before publishing a word of
it. He simply wrote on, making of his life
a book, retrieving his own past. The work
was done between 1906 and 1912, the publi-
cation being interrupted by the war. He
then rewrote the whole book so as to in-
clude the war, adding the volume which
has just appeared, “Time Found Again,”
the others being called, more literally than
m Scott Moncrieff’s Shakspearean title, “In
Search of Time That Is Lost.”
How did Proust conduct that search?
AH of us have a, rather stereotyped recol-
lection of our childhood and of people and
places we saw then. We look back and
each time the same salient points appear:
it is regrettable that we always tell our
friends the same stories about our very
limited past'. Proust’s conviction was that
our past was not so limited. He laid stress
on those intimations of a profounder
memory that we all often receive—and
ignore. His memories came through yield-
ing to those intimations, which reached
him, as they do us all, through a sudden
scent, a taste of something often tasted in
childhood, a glimpse of certain trees that
seemed to mean something, or a repeated
P-bfase in a sonata. It reminds me of a
childish verse:—
Th *re are just two ways of remember:
One way, you remember clear as glass.
Ihe way John does in arithmetic class;
And the other, you sort of remember.
Proust laid his whole stress on the “sort of
remember.”
said lately, making an article
about Jane Austen, that the post-war world
was returning to her, with her sanity and
light nony, being weary of its Dostoevskys
and its Prousts, with their morbid intro-
spection and. .. Dostoevsky can look after
himself. As for Proust, it is possible to
read him on so many planes that I think
he could more than satisfy, in his stride
any appetite we had for looking at life in
the detached, ironical Jane Austen way.
I ake this incident, at a party to which the
narrator, as a youth, is invited by the ex-
clusive Duchess da Guermantes. On be-
ing introduced round the room before
dmnei, he notices a certain gentleman who
is giving great signs of agitation at not be-
ing able to “place” him:—
When the Duke, introducing me, named me in
M. de Breante, the latter, finding my name absolutely
unknown, still did not doubt that 7 was sme
celebrity. Onane (the Duchess) took no notice™
any others and knew the art of attracting men of
public interest to her salon, in the proport™? of
one per cent., be it understood; an increase would
have lowered its status.... M. de Brtante without
deciding whether I was the person concerned’in serum
against., cancer or in a curtain-raiser at the Theatre
Francais, did not cease to multiply before me his
ti?™ 3 ’ , n • Sign 3 °/ intelligence, his smiles filtered
through his monocle.... partly in ignorance of what
language he ought to use with me, as if he had found
himself m the presence of a “natural man” in some
unknown country where his keel had grounded and
with whom he hoped, by observing native customs
Mendly
That sentence is long, though I have hacked
it down almost to the bone in translating.
Proust is long, but his divagations all lead
somewhere; his images are always clear and
vivid, they are real images, not abstrac-
tions.
Someone has been remarking that in
group scenes he is a little like Dickens, and
that quoted passage would give color to
such a suggestion: “smiles filtered through
his monocle” might belong to a Veneering.
On the other hand, Proust’s general theme,
that of preoccupation with artistic effort,
is distinctly not Victorian; and his width of
charter, to wander through all strata of ex-
perience, is not that of Dickens with his
twin rails of the cheery and the grotesque.
Another side of Proust is his power as an
interpreting critic, as if illustrating France’s
saying that criticism recounts the adven-
tures of the soul among masterpieces.
Proust, with his memory so well in hand,
can tell you exactly his “adventures”; with
him you meet a masterpiece for the first
time, and share his sensations, sharing them
again when he returns to it four years
later with a fuller experience. Everything
he has to say about books or pictures or
music is interesting because it is real and
important to him. He lets you reach his
opinions along with him. Standing in front
of some pictures by Elstir, an artist who has
always excited and quickened him, he men-
tally answers the “people of importance”
who have condemned Elstir’s bewildering
impressionism
How often it; has happened to us, driving’ along,
to see a long, white street beginning just beside us,
when it was really nothing but a segment of brightlv
lighted wall, which gave us the mirage of per-
spective! Is it not logical, then, not from arti-
ficial symbolism blit from a sincere return to the
root impression, if we represent any object by that
. other which in the lightning flash of a first illusion
we took it to be?-
He does not leave the matter there, in an
abstract discussion. Elstir’s pictures live
before you; so does Elstir; so do the people
who disliked Elstir. Nothing in the book
is left abstract; every idea is made in-
carnate.
NETTIE PALMER.
The Artist in Australia
When one regards the progress of the
arts in Australia one is struck by the
popular success of the pictorialists—the
water-color and oil-painters and the
etchers. In comparison with the other
arts, literature and music and so on, this
success of the draughtsmen is amazing. A
moderately capable painter or etcher can
do very well in Australia when a genuim
poet must pare potatoes or break stones
or edit a magazine. The leaders are fai
superior in social and financial status to
our best writers, and where Henry Law-
son went lonely and unrewarded, George
Lambert is recognised and acclaimed.
If one is fond of those delightful fancies
that lately do service for criticism, one
may explain it somewhat like this. It
seems to be agreed that drawing .pre-dates
writing, that the ai’tist preceded the scribe,
that alphabetical forms are, in many in-
stances, modifications of earlier pictorial
representations. Such being the case, one
may naturally expect the pictorial artist
to go before the literary artist in a develon-.
ing culture such as ours.
If, on the other hand, one possesses the
type of mind that will not soar, one may
approach the fact from other grounds.
Whatever the criterions of ultimate
fame, it is certain that the artist’s earthly
state is the child of fashion. A poet who
finds his poems unfashionable may con-
tinue to write for posterity, but he will
have to get his bread frogi another trade.
Now the writer has never managed to be
fashionable in Australia; perhaps because
of his frequent association with work-a-
day journalism, perhaps for a thousand
other reasons. The fact is, merely, that
he has never persuaded our rising middle-
classes that it is necessary to read him.
The author, of course, suffers tremen-
dously from the competition of the “clas-
sics.” When Mr. Jones removes from Fitz-
Roy to Toorak, he fills his shelves with
Shakspeare and Goethe and Byron; but
only a rare and occasional Mr. Jones can
cover his walls with Tintorettos and Tur-
ners. One can walk into any bookshop and
order a gross of “best authors,” but I do
not know of any dealer who can deliver a
drayload of Raphaels and Rembrandts. So
Mr. Jones has to do the next best, and he
buys a Streeton, a Gruner or a Blamire
Young. The painter gains by .the fact
that a picture is not, in the nature of
things, available in more than one instance,
and where Hugh McCrae is faced with a
myriad cheap editions of the poets, Sep-
timus Power has the pleasant knowledge
that the Old Masters are strictly limited
in their active rivalry.
The pictorial artist, too, can live on a
smaller public than the writer. To make a
book profitable it has to be sold to several
thousands of people, but a painting needs
only one buyer and an etching fifty or a
hundred. One wealthy connoisseur may
contribute materially to the support of
(Continued on page 5.)


“ Truth in Advertising” is a worthy principle faithfully maintained.
JVIen —you will appreciate the Savings offering during
Anthony Horderns’
65/- Men’s Dressing Gowns
Now 55/-
Smartly tailored from a well-
woven All - Wool Velour
Cloth of medium weight.
Fawn and Brown overcheck
effects. Fashioned by Lon-
don tailors. Price 65/-
Reducecl to, each
(We Pay Carnage.)
551-
A
Ob
Y
m
X
Men's Suits
Tailored-to- Measure
f 6 l 9 6
Tailored in smart conservative or snappy styles
that are the very latest in design, cut and finish.
English and Australian high-grade All-Wool
Worsted and Indigo Dye All-Wool Serges. All
the latest weaves and colorings. Write for
patterns and self-measuring forms—post free on
request. Order now —this offer is only avail-
able during Anthony
Horderns’ Genuine Sale.
Price £7/17/6. Reduced to
£6/1916
(We Pay Carriage.)
asdf
fiFraasM
%
sis
Men’s Fur Felt Hats Reduced
Illustrating the popular and very
fashionable snap down with
plain or bound-edge brims. Eng-
lish and Australian made. New
season’s shades include Steel,
Slate, Zinc, Fawn and Light
Grey. Price. each,
25/-. Reduced to
21|-
Superior Fine Soft Fur Felt Hats,
featuring the Prince and Lounge
styles. Round edge brims, with
self or contrasting bands. In
colors, Slate, Steel, Light Grey
and Mid Fawn. Price,
32/6. Reduced to, ea.
27/6
Save on “Tree” Brand Footwear
asdf
“Tree” Brand Special - grade
Boots for Men. Made from
selected materials in a smart
Bespoke last, stocked in half-
sizes. Can be supplied in Box
Calf, Tan Calf, or Patent
Leather. Genuine welted soles.
Price, per pair, 2 7/6.
Reduced to, per pair
25/-
“Tree” Brand Men’s Shoes.
Obtainable only from Anthony
Horderns’. Stocked in three
shapes. Extended Medium or
Broad Toes. Genuine welted soles.
Leathers include Box Calf, Tan
Calf, Nigger. Price22/6.
Reduced to, pe:* pair
21 1-
K
2/6 Broadway Tics
High-grade Fancy Silk. In
a wide range of smart
colorings and designs.
Remarkable value at 2/6.
Reduced to
16
We Pay Carriage on all Goods in This
Advertisement.
Use Our “DEPOSIT-PURCHASE SYSTEM*’
The benefits of Anthony Horderns’ "Deposit-
Purchase System” are doubly important at Sale Time.
You get the full advantage of our genuine reductions,
yet pay as it suits you. Just leave a deposit, pay off
the balance by instalments, and when these are com-
pleted the goods will be delivered in the usual way.
No interest whatever is charged.
Anthony Horderns:
Telephone 1V12401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O .


Victory Six
I
i
m
&
p*
k
cD fflf
£
A Six Well Named—
An Engineering Victory
Drive Dodge Brothers Victory Six and you will experience
steering ease such as you have never known before in
the Victory’s price class.
You will encounter acceleration and speed wholly
unexpected—yet readily understood when you consider
that the Victory has more power per pound of weight
than any car of comparable price.
You will be amazed by the Victory’s riding comfort over
rough roads at a speed that would be impossible for
most cars.
You will be astonished at the absence of side-sway when
you turn a corner swiftly.
And the Victory fuel economy sets new standards for
six-cylinder engines of equal power.
Ride for thirty minutes in this new Dodge Brothers Six
and you will agree that it is well named. You, too, will
proclaim it the greatest engineering victory in many
years of motor-car history.
Harden & Johnston, Limited, Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne*
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane — Townsville.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
□ erase Brothers
MOTOR CARS
F.V.357A.


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
asdf
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildir r
(Next G.P.0.).
half a dozen painters. If I paint him a pic-
ture he will pay me a hundred guineas; but
if I write him a book, I will get the
author’s percentage of seven-and-six. this,
of course, is perfectly natural and propei,
and it has another side to it>; but it partly
explains why more pictures are painted
than books are written in a country where
a few only are interested in art.
But the root of the matter lies deeper
still. The writer, with his demand for a
wide audience, must wait on an extensive
culture. Culture must not merely have
been developed, it must have brought self-
copsciousness with it. The painter deals
with things seen; Heysen does a tree and
a cow and some light, and his representa-
tion of these visible things awakens re-
sponse in the mind of the least self-criti-
cal. “Why, yes,” the spectator says, “I’ve
seen that. That’s fine. I’d like to have it.
But the writer is painting invisible things,
and until men have come to understand
and appreciate their inward lives as they
do the things of sense, the writer has no
auditors. A landscape is easy to the view,
but thought‘is long and slow revealing.
D.P. McGUIRE.
G.K.C. on R.L.S.
The suggestion is that when Stevenson
first stepped out of his early Edinburgh
home, he slipped upon the step. It may
nave been nothing worse than what Chester-
ton calls “the ordinary butter-slide of the
buffoonery of youth,” but “The Misadven-
tures of John Nicholson” leaves a suspicion
that there was something “a little greasy
or even grimy about the butter.”
The suggestion is made by G. K. Chester-
ton in an unusual study entitled Robert
Louis Stevenson (Hodder and Stoughton;
Angus and Robertson). And it is from the
ugly chasm into which Stevenson at this
period fell that Chesterton suspects there
arose the mystery of Jekyll and Hyde. That
story has been presented as happening in
London; but quite obviously it happened in
Edinburgh. Utterson, the lawyer, who sits
down to a book of dry divinity on Sunday
evening, is not an Englishman. And Jekyll’s
horror of mixing his reputation with mortal
frailty, and the abrupt translation into
Hyde—a stepping-off, as it were, from the
prim and proper pavement into the black
and reeking gutter—is too familiarly offered
not to have had some basis in observation
and reality. Further, it was observed and
realised by one schooled in the Puritan
tradition, which admitted neither distinction
nor difference between the worst and the
moderately bad.
Chesterton is not concerned with the task
either of the Victorian whitewashes or of
the Post-Victorian mudslingers. But we
must understand the child a little who was
father to this man. Stevenson’s genius is
related directly to the fund of imaginative
fancy that he developed in the nursery,
where as a sickly child he had learnt to
live very largely in a world of his own crea-
tion. All that Stevenson was—-and by that
is meant all that made him different from
the man next door—he got in childhood
from the mysterious Mr. Skelt of the little
pasteboard theatre. He has expressed this
all in an essay, and particularly in one
eloquent sentence: “What is the world,
what is man and life but what my Skelt
has made them?” And it was the sharp
contrast between the delicate fancies of his
childhood and the sort of world that met
him like a blast of wind when he stepped
out from his home in manhood that preci-
pitated the fall. There was nothing in the
Puritan tradition of his upbringing that he
could carry with him to help him preserve
his childish enthusiasm for simple things
in a world of such frightful contrast.
But it was the pains of this period of
young manhood that brought back to him
afterwards so vividly the pleasures of child-
hood. There was a break in his life; with
which, of course, a break in his health had
something also to do. In the wider
world of the Continent he gained a sort
of indiscriminate intimacy with the • rather
cynical culture that was then in vogue. He
was faced then, with a return to Puritan-
ism, or an acceptance of the cult of pessi-
mism. He discovered a way of escape.
And the reaction to romance gave to an
astonished world a book, apparently meant
for boys, but written as carefully as any
book for literary men. So “Treasure Island”
was Stevenson’s readmission into the faith
of his childhood. A faith which believed
that the peep-show of Skelt was still the
true window of the world.
Chesterton does not acclaim “Treasure
Island” as a literary masterpiece. It was
a curiosity of literature. “The New Arabian
Nights” was an entirely new creation in
form; distinct from and equally distinctive
as the model which it parodied. There were
limits to the craft of Stevenson—of course.
These limits were adequately expressed
in his own words, about his own fictitious
characters, that his temptation was always
“to cut the flesh off the bones.” This leaves
them with a certain dimension lacking; but
none the less vivid and adequate for their
appointed tasks.
There are more people, probably, inter-
ested in Stevenson himself than in anything
he ever wrote; and it is because of this
habit of talking too much about his life
that we think far too little of his writing.
But it is within the expectation of Chester-
ton that, when the novel has passed
through the amorphous stage in its pre-
sent decline, and when every other possible
variety of storyless story has been tried
and failed, in the reaction it will be dis-
covered that “no novel will serve its pur-
pose so forcibly, or make its point so
plainly, as a novel by Stevenson; and the
story will nowhere reveal its structure and
its end so swiftly and simply as in the tales
of Tusitala.”
GERALD DILLON.
The Little-boy Complex
Hilary Lofting (R.P. 13/6/’2B) appears
to have been a little upset because Thomas
Moult has called Sir James Barrie a genius,
even a creative genius and a master of two
arts.
Mr. Lofting asserts that Barrie is none
of these things because he indulges in what
are known to the critics as “literary ges-
tures,” suffers from some complaint diag-
nosed as “the Mother Complex,” has rather
a feminine quick-change facility than a
masculine, shows uncanny insight and
shadowy delicacy in his treatment of his
subject in “What Every Woman Knows,”
and commits the gross artistic sin of mak-
ing Peter Pan run to the footlights with
a request for a general vote of confidence
in fairies.
Assuming Hilary Lofting’s statement that
Barrie has a feminine, even maternal, out-
look to be correct, what has that got to do
with Barrie’s claim to genius other than
to indicate the direction in which Barrie’s
genius lies?
I imagine that even Hilary Lofting will
not be so rash as to deny the feminine and
even maternal outlook an importance
equal with any other outlook.
Genius, in the fields of art, I think, is
no more than the talent to do surpassing
well that which pleases people most. To
place the limits of one’s own ideals upon
genius, as Mr. Lofting appears to do, is
impertinent. Likewise if he demands of
genius that it shall be equally sympathetic,
with all sections of mankind, then lie seeks
for what does not exist. There never has
been a writer, or painter, or composer, or
other artist who has shown such God-like
understanding. Neither Burns, Scott nor
Stevenson —I mention them because Mr.
Lofting appears to accept them as “major
creative artists”—stirred women as Barrie
did with his “What Every Woman Knows,”
if Mr. Lofting’s own description is correct.
The women recognised in it the truths they
knew. The men remained impassive be-
cause for them there was no truth in
“What Every Woman Knows.”
The fact that Barrie, being a man, knew
what he allegedly had no right to know’
seems to have irked Mr. Lofting into a
biased state of mind, so biased that
Barrie’s remarkable sympathy with the
feminine outlook becomes evidence against
his genius. And yet there, on Mr. Lofting’s
own evidence, w r e have what he professes
most to admire, an understanding of “Life,
true,” albeit without the Spartan embellish-
ments which Mr. Lofting also admires.
There are people who do not regard the
Spartan passion for hardihood, the Puri-
tan dislike for the fanciful, with respect.
In fact, the majority of peoples have indi-
cated that they regard the Spartans as
fools, by adopting simple methods of liv-
ing more comfortably. There are people
who consider a single-minded admiration
for hardihood, in either the physical or the
literary, as a little school-boyish. The
admiration for such things certainly is para-
mount in the small boy, but usually it be-
comes tempered with other complexes
which the average man gathers as he pro-
fits from his experiences. So that taking
into consideration, too. Mr. Lofting’s “My-
sort-of-genius-is-the-only-sort” attitude, a
psychologist might well come to the con-
clusion that he is, or was, suffering from
“the Little-boy Complex.”
ROBERT FRANK.
A Satchel of Books
Dragonfly, by Bernard Cronin (Hodder
and Stoughton). A story of North Queens-
land in the familiar style of Australia’s most
prolific novelist, a style through which
realism and romance trip hand in hand
though melodrama is forever lurking round
the corner. The characters are crisply drawn,
and some, of the descriptions are excellent
passages in staccato.
The World’s Wool is an imposing tome
published annually by Thomas Skinner and
60., London, under the auspices of the world’s
leading wool-handling organisations. It is
a mass of information and statistics relat-
ing to the wool trade, as well as a com-
plete directory to everything connected with
the subject. No one greatly interested in or
concerned with Australia’s fairy godmother,
the wool sheep, should let this elaborate
work of reference pass him.
Twelve Tips to Travelling Salesmen, by
11. N. Casson (Cornstalk Co.). One of them,
the Red Page is glad to notice, is “Use
more ear and less tongue.” Mr. Casson be-
longs to the English school of salesmen, and
they differ from at least one American school
which gives out a “sales talk” and asks its
men to memorise it. “It changes the travel-
lers into poll-parrots, and of course they
fail.” From every point of view this little
book seems thoroughly sound, and every
sales-manager ought to have it on his desk.
From Colonel to Subaltern, by Lt.-Colonel
M. F. McTaggart (Country Life). A learned
but readable treatise on the twin arts of
horsemanship and horse-mastership, written
in the form of letters from a retired cavalry
colonel to his subaltern son. The Colonel
thoroughly understands his job, and the
book is full of wise saws and appropriate
instances. The attractive book is marred
by a superfluity of crude drawings which are
alleged to be the humorous work of “a well-
known artist,” but are neither artistic nor
humorous.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Lunar C.: Yes, but all the same, wouldn't
it be fine to be on the moon and see the earth rise?
Nobody, as far as we know, said it was possible... .
Detol: This cursed lack of space blocks y0u....
J. : The judges don’t approve the suggestion;
no entry, they say, is irrevocably thrown out until
they make their final decision. .. .Chapman B.: Glad
to hear. A change isn’t contemplated. .. .K.0.M.:
K. —just an orthodox little romance... .D.E.L.:
If you’d sent along some onions with your boarding-
house ballad it would have made a better dish.
.... Lorn. C.: Impossible.... Eugene S.: Fevered
outbreak... .R.L.L.: A par. in it 0n1y... .R.S.C.;
You forgot to make Estelle cry “Unhand me,
villain !”... .A.E.8.; Good point too roughly treated.
. ...M.8.T.: Formal stories; not at all in our line.
.... E.M.F.: Lacks the real t0uch....L.8.Z.: No good
passing it on. .. ,Wm. B.: Good plot crudely handled.
. ...P.C.C.: She may be wonderful, but she failed
to dazzle us... .11.M.C.: Unreal melodrama. .. .Boom ;
The beer verse lurched into the w.p.b A.T.8.:
Not quite. .. .R.E.8.: They don’t appeal. .. .J.S.;
Too 10ng... .W.H. (N.Q.) : Your ghost makes a mere
phantom of a story.... Colin F. C.: Futile little
yarn. .. .W.R.C.: The end of “Promised Land” is
good; but we can’t print it merely for that... .
Evelyn N.: Doesn’t hit the mark... . R.T.: “Values”
valueless.... A.N.: That’s right; it doesn’t matter
how many feet your metre walks on as long as it
gets there!... .T.J.H.: That, too, might make a
song, set to music; but we can’t print gramophone
records with the verse... .E.W.: In the manner used
it misses.... Sue S.: The ball that happened in 1910
doesn’t need reporting.... Owen J.: Plain foolishness.
... .R.L.W.: »Nqw, if it were all up to the quality
of the last four lines !... .0.W.W.: Dull. . . .R.F.G.;
Your heathen is a wooden creature... .Allan B.;
Out in the first round. . . .Warren G.: Far too long for
its interest.... W.M.8.: Commonplace love yarn....
F.W.G.M.; Gruesome.... W.G.H.: There isn’t the
value in it. . . .L.W.8.: Parable (or whatever it is)
deadly du11... .A.L.G.: The similarities are inevit-
able, and not worth Red Page notice... .W.A.E.:
Faint idea.... Neil J. M.: No grass for your “sheep
that lonesome graze”.... Steve; We don’t get you.
.... Lucius : Too long, anyway.... Alice M. McN.;
The humorous chances are missed.... Dorothy F.:
It takes the home track... .L.8.L.: You haven’t
quite struck it.... Bellerive: A bit late, certainly,
but: —
The man who beat Dempsey
Is shifty and clever;
The lad from New Zealand’s
As tough as hard leather.
Wealthy sportsmen wagered
Large stakes of money
On the championship fight
Between Heenev and Tunney.
On he’s physical build,
Experience and skill
The champ, was expected
To -win the great mill.
The lad from New Zealand
Is forceful and game,
And achieved on he’s merits
He’s well-deserved fame.
’Twill be over when this
Adorns The Bulletin —
But, Heeney for ever!
I hope he may win!
... .L.P.D.: He married the girl who gave him
currant scones. She went with the currant, so to
speak.... Una C.: “Nocturne” would be likeable if
it wasn’t so breathless... .Z.V.W.: Ashes... .E.F.8.:
Not strong enough... .M.E.G.: “Salvage” nearly
saved itself.... Gar M.: Your idea of story-writing
is to travel to Brisbane from Sydney by way of
London and New Y0rk....J.8.W.: Good finish; but
the humor misfires on the way to it.... H.0.C.:
Fails this time J.1.M.: It may be as good a story
as you say, but our job is to keep ,our readers from
feeling as tired as we did after reading it... .R.C.H.:
No galley for “White Slave”.... Mary P.: Trite....
Paul H.': Pale little idea N.E.D.: N.D.G
M.R.C.: It lost Hugh G.: An echo of things said
often with greater clarity. .. .E.L.E.: Can’t give con-
tributors’ addresses; letter sent c/o this office will
be forwarded to last known dwelling or hollow log.
The verse is poor stuff... .R.C.: It likewise took
that what-d’you-call-it? road.... Ida B.: “July”
made us shiver.... Lucy II.: That 10-year-old
boy, with his “edifice which will be oblite-
rated,” was too much for u 5.... W.M.J.:
“Spud’s Sixpence” not our currency... .W.L.:
It’s nearly length without bredth... .N.L.D.:
That pronunciation of “lucerne” is impossible....
John C.: Feeble effort E.E.: “Bold—soul” was
only one of its offences R. J.C.S.: Was that penalty
ever exacted in the A.I.F. ? Aitchsee: Weak tea.
. ...1.M.K.: No story W.H.R.: Musical item fell
flat.... A Sav: Doesn’t convince.... L.N.D.: Not
strong enough... .E.D.C.: Too many good stories
with Australasian color to allow space for that
resubmitted yarn... .I.E.McL.: Hopeless stuff.
Fivepence and sixpence a line are the rates.
Separate right of republication reserved for
the writer... .W.C.: You take a lot of liberties
with plain language. . . .E.J.8.: The view of the
artificial underworld doesn’t please... .Jack R.: It’s
only a check we can give y0u.... Frank S.: No
gold in the story, though the introductory matter
is interesting-—a daily might like it.. . .Mavis Jones:
A Mrs. Dodson Fogg effort. .. . J.A.H.: Not enough in
it. . . .8.P.P.: “Dark Horse” ran nowhere. . . .Richard
G.: Fell by the wayside.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P. J.R.: Lady who fell from 13th-floor window
ought to have been interesting, but in your hands
she wasn’t... .C. 8.: Untidy scratches and pointless
gags... .R.A.: Save postage-stamps and take lessons.
. ...M.M.G.: Your sozzled prohibitionist is an eye-
sore as well as a hypocrite F.T.N.: You’re a
hero to invite criticism of that collection... .N.A.8.:
“Impressions at the Zoo” didn’t impress. .. .8.11. V.:
A Jervis Bay “mutiny” cartoon weeks after the
event! D.M.E.: Jokes lifted from a Noel Coward
play. .. .S.A.: A slick line alone won’t win the
battle... .W.H.0.: We’d like your caveman better
if he turned on the artist C.R.: A friend gave
you lessons—is he just an ordinary billposter or
is he on the union executive?. ... V.K.: Keep on;
distinctly promising. .. .8.G.: Depressing effort
E.D.L.: Style is too frail ; neither is there any
punch in the jokes.


9
c.
kt
H
. \
1
■■■
"pffZ'P'- **x
M
ill
ii
\
’yy •
; ■
r
r; //!
rC A - \
> /
\ , .
: «
s«iii»ii
J I
ft : V7 1 i
1> ' i
’ Mil
v
*» *5
1
'yeJ i
m
ft
rK
■
II
I mm
mmm l
■
381
/ w
v.
■
limn i ' ft
i
V-. ■
" s *
mmmm
Hi
*•> ;
/ Hill
* ill f* I
i i? ?
I 11| 1 fj| ■
; J
■;>
■
■
• - j
wmm: -
«iii»
5:
1
' ' ■;
MHjMj
BEMi
Hf
I ■
a
■HU


The Bulletin
Vol. 49.—Nb. 2529.
August 1, 1928.
THE PROCESSION.
“That’s no good to us, Bill!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for tl»e White Man-
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for .1 he
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office o
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
Brisbane Office : 249 Adelaide Street.
Perth Office: 33 Barrack Street.
Adelaide Office: 12 Evans Buildings, James -
London Office: 36 Southampton Strep*, btiana,
W.C.2.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA,
12 months, £1 is. ; 6 months, 12s. b d.j 3 months, 7s.
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 ws., o
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs. ,
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, ana
all Business Communications to be addressed, to me
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
C. 8.0., Sydney. .
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to oe
contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted , whether in the
Political, Social or other Articles , Verse, Short
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy-is to be destroyed if not acceptable . 1 er-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it :s not
responsible for the preservation or transmission ol MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
DIRECT reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —l.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in the Main Hall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.CJif and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.i;
E. T. Hole, Uolerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
ZealanderW-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.C.3.
South Africa.- —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban;
Ithodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. lloland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Bonlevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and I,2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West I,lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 701, Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The Neiv Orleans News Man, 105 lloyal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News
Stand, 51,1 k South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Monarch News Agency, 115 West 6th Street, Los
Angeles, Cal.; Smith Bros. 1 Nexus Co., Box 573
Arcade Station, Los Angeles, Cal.; and from the
Barber on Union S.S. Co.’s and Matson Co.’s mail
boats.
Egypt.— Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, S.S. — K. Abdxtl Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel; and from the Barber
on boats of K.P.M. Line.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street.
Colombo; PlatC, Ltd., Bookstall, Galle Face Hotel,
Colombo; M. Atmaram and Sons, 1,1, 'Chatham Street,
Fort Colombo; A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York
Street, Fort Colombo; The Colonial Photographic
Co., York Arcade, Fort Colombo.
I’ArtrA. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.G.h.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonxvealth, Neiv Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 1/oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional ioz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 1/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsexvhere, 20z.. id.
$fce~S&ulIeZv7i.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 1, 1928.
BRUCE TAKES THE WRONG
TURNING.
Street processions of unemployed have been
pathetically common in all the Big Cities
this winter. For the most part they have
been orderly, though wild things have been
said; but in Perth the other day there was
an ugly clash between out-of-works, march-
ing to beard the Premier in his olfice (or
to drag him out, as an orator suggested),
and the police. The Premier in question is
one of the ablest Labor politicians in the
Commonwealth, and his Government, now
in its fifth, year of office, is enthusiastic
and industrious, as even its opponents admit.
There is no separation between the political
and industrial wings of “the movement”
in his State as there is in other States, and
Mr. Collier and his Ministers have been
kept primed with information as .to the
condition of the labor market. That they
have done their best for their jobless
brethren there can be no doubt. Yet the
secretary of the Trades and Labor Council
reports that the number of idle men now
hanging round the city is the greatest in
his experience of Perth.
$ sfc * *
The Prime Minister, with his head in the
clouds as usual, has been saying that one
good season will get Australia out of trouble.
This easy assurance must have made
Collier smile grimly, for Westralia has just
had a good season—a splendid season, in-
deed—and yet hasn’t escaped trouble of
the kind most embarrassing to a Labor
Government. The same Mr. Bruce, a day
or two after the exciting events in Perth,
favored the Sydney Chamber of Commerce
with his well-known recipe for prosperity,
accompanied by the absorption of all our
unemployed and portion of Britain’s—to wit.
rapid “development” financed with migra-
tion loans. This also must have brought a
wintry smile to Collier’s face, for Westralia
has been trying the recipe for ever so long.
It is “developing” at a faster rate than any
other State, and has spent more migration-
loan money than any other two. One
result is that Troy, the Minister of Agri-
culture, has had to tell the south-west group-
settlers that “the Government will have to
discontinue the policy of paying for farm-
ing operations, as the country can no longer
stand it.” These group-settlers are mostly
immigrants, and there are many other
immigrants among the unemployed in Perth.
“Development” is only the old “vigorous
public works policy,” stand-by of a genera-
tion of dull politicians, under another name,
and among its awkward effects is the
creation of a large body of unskilled laborers
who depend on “development” for a living
and won’t take any other class of work.
When a “development” job cuts out they
swarm to the Big City, where about half
the population of the State already pursues
a crust, and clamor for more “development.”
Incidentally, it is recorded that a farmer
listening to an unemployed speaker in Perth
offered the orator or any other gentleman
present a clearing job at a rate which would
enable an industrious man to earn a lot
more than the basic wage, and got no reply.
* * * *
After all, “development” as visioned by
the platitudinous Prime Minister—he never
thinks of it in connection with the Com-
monwealth’s magnificent estate in the North
—is the business of the State Governments
and ought to be left to the State Govern-
ments; they can do their own business
best. If Mr. Bruce is a statesman, as his
admirers declare, his Government can
accomplish great things for Australia, and
in a lesser degree for the Empire of which
he is always talking, by concentrating
on his own job, which is sufficiently import-
ant. Proof after proof has been furnished
that Australian industries no longer enjoy
“the natural protection of distance,” on
which Freetraders are so fond of descant-
ing, the Navigation Act and other varieties
of industrial legislation having done away
with it. Frank recognition of this fact and
tariff revision based on it would reinvigor-
ate many industries now in a poor way,
the Westralian timber industry in particu-
lar. As much or more could be done by
the prohibition of unnecessary imports. In
the latest year for which particulars are
given this food-producing country imported
£3,000,000 worth of foodstuffs of animal
origin, £7,500,000 worth of foodstuffs of
vegetable origin and £4,500,000 worth of
tobacco and alcoholic beverages, besides
apparel to the value of £7,100,000, oils, fats,
etc., to the value of £11,000,000, metals and
metal manufactures worth £34,600,000, wood
worth £5,500,000, and machines and machi-
nery worth £16,600,000. Intelligent atten-
tion to this vast field of operations, wich
the determination to do without imports
that can be done without, would make the
Commonwealth a far better country for
Australians to live in and for British immi-
grants to come to; and we should not have
to buy the British immigrants—or, rather,
go into debt on their account —as we are
doing now.
THE JOCK SKEWBALD PARTY.
The latest attempt to put the trades union
forces of the Commonwealth under a G.H.Q.
staff, calling itself this time the Australian
Council of Trade Unions, was made to
appear rather a poor joke during the strike
of the sea-cooks. These gentlemen refused
even to recognise its existence, and kept
other maritime workers out of their job for
several weeks in contempt of its orders and
its coaxings. When, therefore, after this
demonstration of general inutility and
inconsequence, it was announced that the
A.C.T.U. was going to hold an “All-Aus-
tralian Trade Union Congress,” it was sup-
posed that the principal object would be
to strengthen the Council’s hands so that in
future no one sectional union might para-
lyse an entire industry on its own hook.
But that was by no means the purpose of
the Congress. Astute gentlemen whose
spiritual home is in Moscow had decided
that here was a lovely chance to scuttle
the White Australia policy of the Labor
movement. And they jumped at the open-
ing.
* * * *
The plan of attack was really very in-
teresting. First of all Jake Johanson and
Jock Garden, who had daily condemned
the A.C.T.U. as a gang of scabs for trying
to end such a beautiful strike as the sea-
cooks had precipitated, crept into this Con-
gress which the A.C.T.U. had organised.
Finding, however, that they and their
cobbers were greatly outnumbered at the
outset, they sat back and smiled affably
while such un-class-conscious things as
preference to Australian industries and a
conference with the employers on industrial
problems were discussed. Soon, indeed, Jock
had raised a storm of cheers by voting for
the conference with the capitalists. But
why not? He had wrecked the last one
easily enough. Next day, though, there
was a redder tinge in, the atmosphere.
Tudehope, the master mind of the sea-cooks,
said he didn’t trust the A.C.T.U.; and Jake
repeated all he had had to say about
the scabbiness of that organisation. At the
end of that heart-to-heart talk a resolution
was carried expressing admiration for the
cooks—these cooks who had defied the
A.C.T.U., whose congress this was supposed
to be! Finally, on the third day, after most
of those who were not wearing miniatures
of Lenin next their hearts had gone home,
a statement by Jock that he didn’t care
whether black, brown or brindle people
came into Australia so long as Capital was
defeated, was received with delirious delight.
The A.C.T.U. was definitely roped to the
Pan-Pacific Secretariat, and inferentially
with its parent, the Third International of
Moscow —altogether a very fine performance
for an “All-Australian Congress of Trade
Unions.”
* * * *
There are Labor men who say that this
remarkable mob was not representative of
Australian Labor—the defection of the
A.W.U. is cited as evidence. It is said that
the decisions in favor of a Skewbald Aus-
tralia were not supported by a majority of
delegates—opponents of those views had
gone home. But if political Labor wants to
put itself straight with the community it
must explain why its anti-Moscow forces are
so continually out-generalled and routed by
the Muscovites. It must explain why the
Lang Government of N.S.W., with its follies
and blunders thick upon it, its camp in
confusion owing to dissensions sown by the
Reds who at last dominated it utterly, re-
ceived such solid support at the polls.
Either Australian Labor wants to have its
programmes made in Russia and its policies
dictated by Jock and Jake and others who
say that niggers are just as good as they
are, and that the only road to social re-
generation is by way of a class war—either
it wants to have its programme made by
these people or it doesn’t. The Bulletin
cannot believe that Australian Labor really
does want any such thing. But why, then,
in the name of all that is holy does it per-
mit these traitors to speak for it? Why
does it allow them to dominate its assem-
blies?
WHAT IS THIS TAN-PACIFIC
SECRETARIAT?
The Pan-Pacific Trade Union Secretariat,
with which the trade union congress in
Melbourne decided to affiliate, has little
to do with trades unionism as Australia
knows it. It has, in fact, little to do with
trades unionism of any sort. It grew,
not out of the struggling labor move-
ments in Japan, China and other partially-
industrialised countries bordering on the
Pacific, but out of the political aspirations
of small minorities in those as well as other
Asiatic nations whose laboring classes know
no more about trades unionism than a cow
does about grand opera.
The secretariat had its germ in the early
efforts of the Bolsheviks to set their stamp
upon this vague and disgruntled few. As
far back as 1919 they sent out ambassadors
to offer their passage money to men of
this type to proceed to Moscow, there to be-
come undergraduates in the technique of
revolution, as taught in the Communist
colleges of that half-way house between the
East and West. Out of this movement
grew the first Congress of the Peoples of
the East, which met at Baku at the invi-
tation of the Soviet. To this congress
came many distinguished revolutionists.
Among them were Lohane, a Hindu agita-
tor; Snevliet, a half-caste Javanese, who
had been organising the always hungry
proletariat of the Dutch East Indies; and
Semaun, some sort of Malay.
This Semaun was the gentleman who was
mentioned a year ago in The Bulletin as
being behind the Javanese revolt of 1926
—a revolt typical of all the others, abortive
or partially successful, which were planned
for many lands, including Australia. The
Bolshevik is an extraordinarily broad-
minded person. He can adapt his creed to
almost every variety of intelligence. To
the loin-clothed Communists of India he
promises an avatar of Vishnu; to the
Chinaman a resurrection of the revered
dynasty of the Ming; to the Australian
trades unionist, with his child-endowment,
his old-age pension and his Savings Bank
home, a paradise on earth transcending any-
thing he has at present. To the Javanese
he promised a Communist Messiah who
would assassinate all th§ Dutch (officials to
be publicly hanged), establish a native
dynasty and hand the land over to the
peasants. The revolt broke out in 14 spots
at once and for a few hours portion of
Batavia, the capital, was in rebel hands.
The Dutch, however, acted with unusual
promptitude and, after some bloodshed, the
rising was put down. Two thousand sore
and sorry Communists were deported to
New Guinea; but Snevliet and Semaun
were not among them, having directed
operations from afar. Semaun, in fact, is
still in Russian territory, and Australian
radio amateurs who care to tune in to
Khabarovsk may even hear his voice.
A branch of the Baku congress was
established at Canton. It called itself the
League of Oppressed People, the oppressed
ones being not the unionists of China, but
the Annamites ruled by the French in
Cochin-China, the Malays ruled by the
British in the F.M.S.; even the Dyaks. For
a time the League prospered in the
human antheap of Canton. The Nation-
alists found it useful in fomenting popular
uprisings on which their armies were able
to ride towards Peking. But after the
armies had passed, the Communists stayed
and set up reigns of terror compared with
which the French example was an amateur
affair. This caused a revulsion of public
opinion, and to-day Chinese Communists
are liable to be hanged.
The Pan-Pacific Trade Union Congress,
of which the secretariat is the permanent
form, is something that was left behind
when Borodin fled from Hankow acd the
League of Oppressed People vanished from
Canton. It met surreptitiously at Shanghai
in February of this year, because round
that cosmopolitan cesspool are concentrated
the worst examples of misery, degradation
and unrest excessive over-population has
ever caused. Many of the Filipinos, Rus-
sians, Afghans, Annamites, Cantonese and
Tamils who assembled had already taken
part in the propaganda leading to the
armed revolts described above, and the
resolutions passed were practically the same
propaganda, expressed in much the same
form.
In part it is the catspaw of the Russian
Soviet, and in part the cloak under which
Oriental half-castes and others seek to wreak
their vengeance upon the white peoples of
the earth. What the white Australian
working-man is doing in such company
Heaven only knows.
FENG-SHUL.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Sex-stuff and Crime.
Dear Bulletin, —The leader on the above
subject (B. 18/7/’2B) hits the nail exactly
where it was designed to be hit in attribut-
ing the present appalling wave of sexuai
criminality to the display of feminine
charm and the paucity of feminine clothing,
combined with twice-weekly changes of
similar displays on the _ picture screens.
There is a very true saying that a naked
woman is nothing like as provocative as one
partially clothed. The statue of Venus de
Milo is a chaste work of art, but if she
were wearing a chemise she would immedi-
ately become a pornographic exhibition.
A very few years ago we men hardly
knew whether women and girls had feet
or fish-tails. To-day, a very few years
later, we know all not only about their feet,
but about darned nearly everything else as
well. The “evolution” has been too rapid,
and the male has not had time to settle
down. The result has provided a curious
and interesting study in psychology, leading
to the conclusion that a large number of
men these days think that the dropping of
the veil which used to shroud pretty well
everything but a woman’s face has meant
that morally women have degenerated with
equal suddenness to the status that would
have been held 20 years ago by the girl who
dressed then as they all. dress in 1928.
In other words, the male of to-day is
prone to think that all women were always
essentially immoral, but have only recently
had the courage to advertise the fact by
leaving off most of their clothing—on the
stage, in the streets and on the silver
screen. So inevitably a great number of weak-
minded men, especially if they are sexually
inclined even to only the average extent,
think they have only to suggest the sub-
ject and any short-skirted female in sight
will be prepared to become a prostitute —at
any rate pro tem. The idea is, of course,
entirely mistaken; but there is in every
community a large proportion of men who
are perilously near the border-line of sexual
mania, and who are subconsciously prepared
to cross that border-line given sufficient im-
petus. They themselves provide the impetus,
and risk the rebuff that they know an
improper suggestion invites. Having, as it
were, got over the first hurdle, discretion,
decency and all other respectable instincts
vanish, and the result is a tragedy which
for the victim is worse than any hell ever
imagined.
The trouble occurs when a man or youth
of the type referred to runs across a young
woman or girl who he mistakenly thinks,
for reasons already given, is ready to be-
come a prostitute, through either natural
inclination or the allure of money or pre-
sents. A partial remedy seems to be to
create machinery to introduce that kind Oi
man to the kind of woman he is seeking.
It seems to stand to reason that if a man
can get what he wants legally, at a reason-
able cost, and with safety, he must be less in-
clined to try to take it by force, with
the tragic consequences which sucli
action often produces. In other words, I
would advocate the following in the rest
of Australia of the Queensland and Conti-
nental system by the inauguration of the
“licensed-house” system under medical in-
spection. If the system were to save on y
one potential Sefton Park victim it would
have been justified.—Yours, etc., Marko.


Credit Gone Mad.
The latest unlovely outgrowth of the cash-
order system, a parasite upon a parasite, is
an offer made by a Sydney concern to
advance actual cash in place of the usua
order. The radius of the latter, it is pointed
out, is restricted to shops accepting that
particular brand. ‘ Have the cash and buy
where you desire,” says the circular, whic
continues insidiously: “If you wait until
you save the money, you will never have
it; most people cannot save.” Undoubtedly
they won’t have a chance if the c.-o. and
instalment purchase methods get the grip
their promoters aim at. ,
Instead of paying off existing debts by
separate weekly instalments, a person who
is already a victim of the t.-p. system is
counselled to “save himseli further worry
by obtaining an advance from his new
friends and pooling his old liabilities m
a new one. These accommodating gentry
offer to pay off t.-p. furniture, piano, gramo-
phone, wireless set, etc. They also suggest
to the public that it might be short of the
wherewithal to pay a deposit on a home for
itself, or on a “cheap snap” in land, or
for the purchase of a business or a motor-
car. Already too many are tempted, be-
cause they happen to have the deposit, to
plank it down for a car; but the man who
borrows the deposit to begin with is making
a proper welter of it.
The promoters skate gently over the thin
ice of what security they require, but there
is a familiar ring about the assurance that
“should repayments fall in arrear through
any legitimate reason, we will treat you
leniently.” The concern is simply a dis-
guised moneylender. If it proclaimed itself
such, it would not get a hearing, but, by
trading on the extent to which the com-
munity has given way to the c.-o. habit,
it gets there just the same.
How far things have gone in this un-
desirable direction was revealed the other
day by J. McMahon in his address at the
annual meeting of the Automobile and
General Finance Co., which has just com-
pleted a rather sorrowful year. No con-
demnation of the system, in its present evil
luxuriance, could be stronger than the words
of this shareholder in a co. which lives on
its continuance. He declared it would
stagger people to know what had gone on
under hire purchase. He instanced musical
instruments worth £245 each being sold to
dwellers in industrial suburbs, “probably
basic wage earners who had about as much
chance of paying as of flying.” Some of
these instruments, he continued, were to be
found in kitchens, the crowded houses hav-
ing no space elsewhere. His co., he added,
had to “chase everything,” and “unless pur-
chasers were kept up to 95 per cent, of
their obligations, the business became dan-
gerous.” No wonder, when he added, in
the next breath, that as long as five years
were allowed to pay off!
An obvious comment is that such a sys-
tem must be economically wasteful, and
shrieks for discouragement.
♦
To End a Family Squabble.
Maoriland’s trade treaty with Japan is
apparently more of a friendly gesture on
the part of Nippon than a reciprocal arrange-
ment. Japan gains little or nothing by it;
the Dominion, which is anxious to develop
Pacific markets for its dairy produce, gets
a reduced tariff on butter. The trade in this
line is small at present, but the concession
may help it to grow.
From a commercial standpoint the inci-
dent is unimportant to either party or to
Australia, but, considered as a move to pro-
mote a more neighborly feeling among
nations whose coasts border the world’s
largest ocean, it should bring a feeling of
shame to every good Australian—and
Maorilander. For though united by bonds
of nationality, proximity, similarity of tradi-
tions and experience and the blood-brother-
hood of Gallipoli, the post-war history of
communications between Commonwealth
and Dominion has been mostly one of petty
trade squabbles over wheat and butter.
Of course, each side can make out a case.
Maoriland for defence reasons desires to
maintain its wheat industry, and induces her
farmers to sow wheat instead of embarking
on more profitable and less risky operations
by guaranteeing a substantial fixed price
and imposing duties on imported wheat and
flour sufficient to protect the domestic in-
dustry. But, notwithstanding these induce-
ments, it is but rarely that the Dominion’s
crop is adequate to the local demand. Aus-
tralian wheat must be imported to make up
the deficiency. On the Australian side there
are occasions when the import of Maori-
land butter becomes profitable, owing either
to a temporary shortage in the Common-
wealth or to a price disparity sufficient to
offset the duty. On such occasions there
are usually indignant references to “dump-
ing”; and the fact that the possibility of
Maoriland imports is largely due to the
Paterson scheme, which artificially inflates
the domestic price in order to subsidise the
export trade, is not usually mentioned.
When the late H. E. Pratten visited the
Dominion a few weeks before his death
these matters were gone into fully and
frankly, and there was an agreement
between the conferring Ministers that each
side had a right to protect its own interests
in the way it had adopted. But the two
communities —especially those parts of them
that are engaged in wheat and dairy pro-
duction—are not so judicially minded as the
Ministers of State who represent them, and
a feeling of irritation and antagonism sur-
vives.
There is a very easy way of avoiding such
squabbles. If both sides would abolish the
duties, and, instead, control the wheat, flour
and butter trade by the issue of import
licenses when a genuine shortage occurred,
limited to the estimated extent of the
shortage, there would be much less room for
misunderstanding and a friendlier outlook
on both sides of the Tasman. Australia
and Maoriland can’t afford to quarrel.
♦
The “Tremendous Loss” Up North.
Senator Pearce is a politician of purely
local outlook and none too much of that.
In a recent pronouncement at Perth he ex-
pressed his regret that Westralia hesitated
to pass over its bit of Empty North above
latitude 20 and thus save itself “a loss of
£lOO,OOO a year” and land the same on the
Federal Treasury. This was legitimate
enough; but then the wearisome gentleman
broke out in quite a different strain:—
“People who said the Government had not
developed the Northern Territory lost sight
of the fact that those who rushed in with
wild schemes of development there without
full knowledge and consideration had caused
tremendous loss which the Commonwealth
had to bear. It was as the result of that
bitter experience that the Government had
set up legal machinery which, functioning
on the spot, was evolving plans for develop-
ment on safe and sound lines.”
“HOW THE MAN WHO DESIGNED SYDNEY’S TRAMS MUST HAVE HATED
ALL US CONDUCTORS!"
It is best in a case like this to avoid plati-
tudes and generalities, and get down to
facts.
The Commonwealth took over Northern
Territory debts amounting to £6,000,000 and
a trifle, and received in return 624 miles
of railway and over 334,000,000 acres of
Crown land—good, bad and indifferent, like
the rest of Australia. The Federal authori-
ties proceeded to blight the chance of settle-
ment by prohibiting the sale of freeholds,
by neglect of water conservation and, of
course, by lack of railway facilities, and the
wildest rush it made was the appointment
of a batch of officials who don’t function
on the spot worth 2d., having no power of
their own to raise revenue or loans or to do
any works, though they may recommend
thousands.
The Commonwealth constructed a rail-
way to Pearce’s own State, which it was
under no obligation to construct, and for
which it received no consideration in land
or otherwise. This gift line lost £263,117 in
the first year of its completion, and about
this as little as possible was said. In the
same year the incomplete and neglected
South-to-North railway lost only £193,047,
about which a great deal was said. Since
that year (1918) the interest charged against
the line to Pearce’s State has diminished
from £205,688 to £113,380 (in 1926), while
the, interest x charged against the un-
finished South-to-North line has risen
from £141,119 to £194,919. This curi-
ous behavior of figures may have
helped along the legend about un-
profitableness and so on. In 1925-26 the
Northern Territory showed a loss of
£284,970 after the accounts were charged
with interest and sinking fund (£143,251)
and new works (£33,629), mostly debited to
loans in other cases. The Federal railway
to Westralia showed a loss of £286,034 in
one year before the diminution of the in-
terest burden began to affect the situation.
Further, as a set-off to the payment of
£284,970 to cover the Northern Territory
deficit in 1925-26, Westralia in the same
year received a Federal subsidy of £353,112,
which shouldn’t be lost sight of when its
favorite son speaks severely about “tre-
mendous loss” on the Northern Territory.
Federal Governments with which Pearce
was connected have “rushed in with wild
schemes” for building ships, and building a
Federal capital, and building castles in the
air; but the one thing which seems to tor-
ment them like the worm that dieth not is
the trifle laid out on the Darwin country.
It is the one place which has no voting
power; and it begins to look as though
some members of the Bruce-Page Govern-
ment think all expenditure bad if it can’t
be traded for votes.
♦
The Distressful Island.
“E. Con.”: Tassie’s chances of retaining the
Lockyer grant are not too rosy with a Com-
monwealth deficit of over two millions. And
Hobart’s chances of a subsidy for the Syd-
ney passenger service are as blue as the
Tasman Sea. The Hobart commercial men
who are articulate are more or less purple,
and, disgraceful as it is to have to say it,
the political reason for the lack of rosiness
is the lack of any shade of Red in the
Federal representation of the island. Not
one member belongs to the Opposition, and
there is no danger, as in W.A., that there
might be. In the circumstances Bruce
has done the islanders tolerably well—for
a politician.
As for the desolate South, of the whole
10 itinerants to Canberra it has only two
members. Gellibrand, who is too much of
a gentleman to scream, and Seabrook, who is
too much of a screamer to be heard, get
no sympathy from Launceston, which thinks
it ought to be the capital; the three-fifths
of the population who live in the North are
satisfied that the Bass Strait services are
a good enough link.
But the grant for the State is a different
matter.
♦
Longwooi’s Achievement.
The Australian pastoralist gets plenty of
patronising advice from politicians and
Bradford brokers, and any amount of abuse
from the brotherhood of soapbox orators.
In Melbourne the other day, at a gathering
of business men, he was warmly praised—
a thing so rare as to be almost an Event.
The speaker was A. T. Kenyon, of the State
Rivers and Water Supply Commission:—
“The debt this country owes the pastoralist
can never be repaid. As an engineer I know
of no greater instance of the mastery of
man’s mind over the opposing influences of
nature than the production of fine wool.
It needs eternal vigilance to develop, and
continuous vigilance to maintain; the slight-
est neglect would cause decadence immedi-
ately. With only about one-sixth of the
world’s sheep, Australia produces one-third
of the world’s wool supply. In 1844 the
average yield per sheep was about 21b.
of wool; to-day it is lf we desire to
retain our pre-eminence in the pastoral in-
dustry we must not allow the cutting up of
estates from which the great stud flocks
come.”
All this is true; and yet it is only part
of the splendid story. Give the pastoralist
a chance, and he will march to still greater
triumphs. In Westralia he is extending his
conquests to regions which dismal geo-
graphers have damned. All he asks from
Governments is security of tenure, equit-
able taxation and freedom from meddling,
benevolent or otherwise—the benevolent
sort is apt to be the most disastrous sort
in the long run.
♦
The Passing of Hollywood.
In Hollywood there is a wailing and a
gnashing of teeth. The directors are lopping
a few' noughts off the salaries of the stars
and exchanging their gold cuspidors for
brass. The reason is that the world-wide
revulsion against their stereotyped products
is making itself felt financially. Already
Britain, France, Italy, Austria, Germany,
Hungaiy, Czechoslovakia, India, Maori-
land and Australia have quotas, embargoes
or censorships against their goods, and others
are acquiring similar powers. Even China
has a rising industry, and in Japan there
is a marked preference for the home-made
film.
Few will weep tears over Hollywood’s
passing. Its gross world-monopoly was a
direct outcome of the war. Most countries
had picture industries before the Sera-
jevo crime. While they were devoting their
attention to clearing up that bloody mess,
Los Angeles got busy creating a corner in
the screen. That it should abuse its posi-
tion was foreordained. It aimed at the
lowest type of theatrical audience in its
native land. The persistent film-goer—not
the occasional and discriminating one —is
only just literate enough to read the sub-
titles. Of this type Uncle Sam has one of
the largest proportions in the world;
statistics of recruits for his army showed it
to be nearly 90 per cent. Negroes and
unabsorbable aliens no doubt help in this
result. Hollywood’s export department went
on the unwarrantable assumption that in
the rest of the world the proportion was
the same.
Victoria was the first Australian State to
establish a quota of Australian and British
films, and it has worked fairly successfully.
Some of the first pictures have been crude,
but excellence cannot be expected to arrive
overnight. A modern studio is being built,
at the moment at Geelong, and, with the
assistance of the quota, its directors will
be able to employ experienced control.
British films are coming into their own.
An Australian circuit has just signed a
£lOO,OOO contract with a British firm. In-
telligent European pictures are beginning to
filter in. . Maoriland has just ordered 36
British feature pictures for 1929. Nothing
better than this competition has ever hap-
pened to Hollywood. Few better things have
happened to the United States; for it has
been really a shocking thing for a great
republic to be judged by the output of its
picture factories, as it has been judged dur-
ing the last dozen years.
♦
Tveedledum undt Tveedledec.
The Returned Soldiers’ League has received
complaints from soldier settlers in Man-
dated New Guinea of an influx of
German-born missionaries. An arrangement
was made some time ago, in accordance
with the provisions of the Treaty of Ver-
sailles, that all persons of ex-enemy nation-
ality* employed by missions should be re-
placed within seven years from June 1,
by others who are not German-born. The
complaining soldiers are asking what action
the Federal Government proposes to take,
for the men on the spot consider that the
attitude of the new missionaries towards the
Australian Administration will be no more
conducive to harmony than that of many
of their predecessors. There is much to be
said for the contention, presuming that the
complaints are correct, and that the new-
comers are of German nationality as
asserted.
Experience in many lands has gone to
show that there is always friction of a sort
between a mission and an administration,
even if both are of the same nationality.
It is the old rivalry between the powers
spiritual and temporal, and is none the less
real because it is often veiled. Antagonism
is so much the more intensified when the
rivals are not only of alien but of late-
enemy stock. The story of the German
missionaries in India and Africa before and
during the war, and the measures that had
to be taken with them, are recent history,
and New Guinea had its small share of the
trouble. The arrangements for the ultimate
removal of these men and women were the
direct outcome of these activities. If the
places of such men are to be filled with
others cast in the same mould, no useful
purpose seems to have been served by re-
tiring the missionary the Administration
does know for one who is a complete
stranger.
In any case the influx of fresh Germans,
if it is taking place, is in direct contradic-
tion of the original arrangement, and re-
turned men and general public alike are
entitled to know why the Federal Govern-
ment has permitted it.


jha
MAXIMUM POWER DELIVERY
always marks the service of
Mangrovite Leather
or
Rawhide Belting.
Even distribution of strength and uniform pliability are assured by scientific
tanning to preserve the natural grain of the leather.
There is a Mangrovite Belt for every class of drive—and the advice of our
engineers, versed in every transmission problem, is freely available.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
16.
BUTTONING UP THE PURSE
is an out-of-date phrase, but the principle holds good; yet
there is a better way of saving money than by merely refrain-
ing from spending it.
Money in your pocket, or your purse, is practically money
spent, for it is too readily available for every whim to buy
this or that unneeded trifle.
Save in the modern way. Open a Commonwealth
Savings Account and let the pounds and the shillings and the
pence work for you.
There is a Savings Bank Agency in every Post Office.
Comwnwealtb M of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
POLITICAL
POINTS
Prime Minister Bruce, in a burst of petu-
lance at a Sydney Chamber of Commerce
dinner:—
Not one of you has the foggiest notion of what
our finances mean. There isn’t one of you who
would be ready to sit at a table with me and
defend your notion of economy.... Go away and find
out what the Government is doing, and become an
intelligent audience, instead of remaining a talkative
but hopelessly misinformed 0ne.... For goodness’
sake, know what you are talking.
Probably a result of the big deficit and the
cool reception given to the £7,000,000 loan!
If the outburst means that the Prime Min-
ister wants to go loaning a 'little harder
than ever, it was a mistimed effort as well
as an arrogant one.
The Sydney Labob Daily has become a
convert to the “open go” at elections; and
the conversion is welcome and important.
Remarking that the selection-ballot system
is expensive, corrupt, inefficient and the
cause of bitter strife, the organ of the
A.L.P. executive urges that body to cut it
out altogether. “Pre-selection,” the paper
says, “makes for mediocrity in politics; it is
robbing the country of the men who could do
best in public life.” That is true, and
true of all the parties, not Labor alone.
The Westralian section of the Country
party is to run Harry Gregory again for
the Swan seat in the House of Reps., and
Prowso for Forrest. Gregory is an old Par-
liamentary hand; he was in the Westralian
Assembly from 1897 to 1911, being Minister
for Mines most of the time, and has been an
Gregory, M.H.R.
M.H.R. for 15 years.
He is a pertinacious
little man, and, though
anything but an
orator, is listened to
wi t h the respect
always accorded to a
fighter, whatever his
views. He is a Vic-
torian from Kyneton,
so it is rather surpris-
ing that he should
have become identified
with the dreary cause
of revenue - tariffism.
However, as a member
of the Filin Commis-
sion he supported the
increase in the film
duty which the Prime
Minister is very fool-
ishly trying to whittle
down again; so there
may be hope for
Gregory yet.
The struggle of Jock Garden and his
supporters to carry their idea of the free ad-
mission of black, brown and brindle breth-
ren, always provided they are Red brethren,
has just this element of the ridiculous—that
if they capture the Australian Council of
Trade-Unions there won’t be any Australian
Council of Trade-Unions left.
One of the jests peculiar to this country
was mentioned the other day to Vic. Rail-
ways Minister Tunnecliffe. He was told that
it cost 118 s. lid. per ton to send canned
fruit, jam and tomato sauce 1901 miles from
Melbourne to Albury, while the rate from
Sydney to Albury (400 miles) was 575. lid.
Therefore goods were 3ent round via Sydney
by private-enterprise ship, when that craft
was running, and 355. per ton was saved.
The Minister said with a sigh that he would
see Clapp about it.
Though Ben Pearsall, the Tas. Assembly’s
only Independent, is nominally supporting
the McPliee Nat. Government., it is an open
secret that he doesn’t feel like marrying into
the family, so to speak, on such short
acquaintance. If the McPhee-Lee team can
pull together and get things done Pearsall
will give them his vote and blessing. But
at present he is obviously suspicious that
the conflict of interests among the Nats,
may prevent the doing of things he wants
done.
The superficially mended Turk has abol-
ished, or is abolishing, the sultanate, the
caliphate, the empire, the connection of Church
and State, polygamy, the seclusion of women,
the fez, the habit of lying on the stomach
during service, the religious courts and the
use of the Arabic alphabet; and now it is
reported that such titles as “pasha” and
“bey” are to go. If Abdul Turk would only
abolish his dull-witted self he would com-
plete a noble work.
Queensland Labor Department’s report for
1927-28 shows that unemployment sustenance
totalled £390,336, an increase of nearly
£50,000 bn the previous year’s figures. The
peak month was March, when £52,993 was
paid out, as against the minimum of £21,919
in August. In the comparative statement of
monthly payments since January, 1924,
March holds the record, while August re-
mains down the course.
Supporters of the N.S.W. Bavin Ministry
were glad when the Premier was well enough
to return bo work, for the excessive ami-
ability of Buttenshaw, his locum tenens, had
been rather trying. Especially was this the
Bavin.
case when tin-hare bet-
ting was pronounced
illegal; the acting-Pre-
mier sidled in with a
proposal for licensing
the tin-hare joints,
which every other
State has banned.
Immediately he re-
sumed his job Bavin
announced in very
plain terms that his
Government would not
permit tin-hare bet-
ting or tolerate the
extension of gambling
in any shape or form;
and the public ap-
plauded. The firm and
clear-headed little man
had the great advant-
age, early in his
career, of being pri-
vate secretary to
Alfred Deakin, an in-
spiration and an ex-
ample. He has been
accused of being deficient in human sym-
pathies, but even the other side admits that
he is an honorable opponent, free (though the
son of a clergyman) from the miserable sec-
tarianism which has been the besetting sin
of more than one N.S.W. Premier.
The Bruce-Page Government changes its
policy regarding wireless broadcasting every
few months. A recent effort to make up
what its admirers please to call its mind
was followed by a demand for the amalga-
mation of A-class companies, which were
alleged to be pouching immense profits,
though the probabilities are that one pony-
racing syndicate has dragged in more during
the last couple of years than the whole
eight. Amalgamation having been brought
about so far as was possible during the short
period allowed, the Brupages find that it won’t
do. So they are going to “take over” the
A-class stations (the Queensland Govern-
ment’s show presumably excepted), let the
purveying of news and entertainment by
tender, and license as many B-class stations
as care to apply. In short, Australia is to
have another instalment of “nationalisation,”
which is always going to bring blessings and
never does.
Ex-Premier J. B. Paterson’s catchiest
phrase was remembered last week when
Moncur was speaking in the Vic. Assembly.
As one of the .Cocky Ten he was urging the
House to put redistribution of population
before redistribution of seats. In his day
Paterson was baited for giving attention to
unemployed relief and going slow on the one-
man-one-vote reform. “Victuals before
Votes!” shouted the Premier; an-d the old
hands smiled to remember that he was an
ex-butcher, too.
It is certain that money is coming to
Australia from foreign sources to promote
so-called Communism, and it is manifestly
impossible that it can be in cash. It looks
as though it must be forwarded through the
banks ; and it seems about time for the Fed-
eral Government to exercise some power of
supervision over the exchange transactions
of these institutions and of firms acting as
bankers.
The Maoriland measure designed to pre-
vent feeble-minded persons having offspring
provides for the compilation of a register
of the mentally deficient—the State schools
are to assist—and persons on the register
will not be allowed to marry. Furthermore,
a medical board will be empowered to order
the sterilisation of any registered person—
with his or her consent if the board considers
the subject capable of understanding what is
meant, but otherwise without a by-your-leave.
The Tunney-lleeney fight and the vicissitudes
of the All _ Blacks have diverted attention
from the bill, but Labor Parliamentarians
rushed in to say they were'agin it.
Zeehan sent James Ernest Ogden to the
Tasmanian Assembly
in 1906, and he re-
mained a member of
the House for 16
years, serving in two
Labor Governments
—he was Treasurer for
one week in October,
1909, and Chief Sec.
for two years, 1914-16.
Resigning to stand for
the Senate at the 1922
election, he was unable
to get team-mates, so
dismal did the prospect
seem to th young
lions of the a.L.P. ;
in spite of that handi-
cap, he topped the poll.
But he fell out with his
party during the mari-
time disturbances of
1925, declaring that
its subservience to the
Senator Ogden.
militants was cowardly and injurious to
Tasmania. During the next two or three
years he generally voted for Bruce-Page
measures, without actually joining either of
the Ministerial parties ; but he has now taken
the plunge and will contest the coming elec-
tion _as a Nationalist. Incidentally, that
election may happen as early as November
next.
The Commonwealth Government’s decision
to acquire the A-class broadcasting stations
was announced in “vague phraseology,” one
paper says. Still, this is definite enough:—
The Government will take over at a valuation
such portions of the plant, equipment and machinery
of the existing A-class stations regarded as suitable
and necessary for the continuance of the mechanical
side of broadcasting.
What a howl there would be if, say, the
Hogan Labor Government proposed to take
over a prosperous Victorian pub on a similar
basis! Yet pubs are run under Government
license, the same as broadcasting companies.
So are pony racecourses, for that matter.
Pony people have been prominent in the war
on BLO and 2FC. They will feel very
sick should the Federal Government pro-
ceedings be pounced upon as a precedent for
blotting out pony racecourses.
The Labor selection ballot in the Federa-
electorate of Angas (S.A.) has led to a
pretty rumpus. First L. A. Hopkins, some
time M.L.A. for Barossa, was announced as
the winner, whereupon a Labor paper acidly
declared that Hopkins had shown very little
interest in A.L.P. matters since his defeat
last year. Then a batch of ballot-papers
arrived from M annum, and the counting of
these placed F. C. Staniford, another de-
feated State member, level with Hopkins.
Presently it transpired that some of the Man-
num votes had been lodged nearly three
weeks after the closing of the ballot, so all
the Mannum votes were rejected. Now an-
other ballot has been ordered, though the
Hopkins faction protests that its man is
fairly entitled to the nomination. Labor
will miss Joel Moses Gabb, who represented
Angas for six years and scored a great
personal vote last time. Though the Nation-
alist Senators won hands down in Angas,
Joel Moses was beaten by a mere 250 votes
in a poll of 40,606.
Australian finance consists of getting into
a hole, scrambling out with loss, then getting
into another hole and scrambling out with
more loss. Brisbane City Council piled up
the usual overdraft with the Commonwealth
Bank, which can’t carry an indefinite num-
ber of big floating overdrafts for an indefi-
nite time. Prospects for a fixed loan in
the local market were, however, poor. So
London was appealed to for £955,000, though
interest is to be paid on a million, and the
repayment will be a million. The weary
public put up 11 per cent., the underwriters
finding the rest. So in place of a local
interest bill which can be met \vith paper
there is a foreign interest bill which must
be paid with the surplus exports which this
land of go-slow doesn’t produce. And Bris-
bane’s affair was only an atom in the bucket.
The United States scheme to “outlaw
war” is being accepted by the other Powers
with a polite semblance of /enthusiasm, as
a thing which can do no harm and may
at least amuse the baby. It provides that
if two Great Powers that have signed the
agreement quarrel they will arbitrate rather
than fight, or else arbitrate and then fight.
Smaller Powers will take their chance. It
has become a familiar saying that if Britain
and the United States like to combine they
can stop any war, and certainly the British
Empire, France, Belgium, Russia, Italy, Ser-
bia, Montenegro, Japan, Portugal, Roumania,
the United States and a few others stopped
the last war, though they were some time
about it. Peaceful stoppage is to be brought
about by cutting off the supplies of money
and material, but if the combatants run
short of these articles simultaneously they
may finish the fight cheaply with crowbars,
and if the deserving party runs short first
it will, be licked by the undeserving.
“We are all behind Scullin and the Fed-
eral Labor party,” said Jock Garden to
the Trade-Union Congress as it wound up
after endorsing the Pan-Pacific movement
and the “black, brown and brindle” doctrine.
That being so, Scullin might be well advised
to wear armor on his hinder parts. The
same crowd is also behind Queensland Pre-
mier McCormack—creeping up behind him,
in fact; and it is darkly suspected, that mil-
lionaire Loewenstein was pushed overboard
by warm supporters in the rear.
The Shanghai organisation which calls
itself the Pan-Pacific Trade-Union Secretar-
iat could find a profitable field for its energies
in its immediate vicinity instead of meddling
in the affairs of Australia. A commission
on labor conditions in Shanghai reports that
the minimum wage in local factories is 16s.
a mouth for a man and 2d. a day for a
woman, and that there is a system of baby-
farming whereby a working infant can be
bought for 4s. a month. The Pan-Pacifists,
however, aim at bigger game, like disruption
in Australia and revolution in India.
The totalisator is in use practically every-
where except in Britain and Victoria, and
the British House of Commons has just
passed a Tote Bill. The Old Man dodged
the machine for many years on what he
thought were religious grounds, but financial
troubles moved him to the imposition of a
betting tax—“recognition of the evil,” in fact
—and it was only logical to go a little fur-
ther, and give the public a better medium
of investment than Abraham Deadun. In
N.S.W. the tote retains between 13 and 14
per cent, of the gross takings, including frac-
tions, and when the balance is divided among
first, second and third there isn’t enough
left, except on rare occasions, to get excited
about. There might be a great future for an
apparatus which was content with 5 per cent,
and made provision for those who like to bet
“both ways” and back doubles. On doubles
the prices offered by Abraham Deadun are
deadly.
Of Vic.’s four imported Chief Railway
Commissioners Speight was suspended in
1892, and was mot reinstated; Mathieson,
who was sole boss, resigned in 1901 before
his term was up be-
cause a bigger job was
offered him in Britain ;
Tait got out before his
contract ended in
1910; and now the
Hogans are endeavor-
ing to goad Clapp, who
has two years to run
bo complete his second
term, to throw up the
sponge. Speight came
from the Cold Country
direct; Mathieson was
Scotch, and Victoria
collared him from Ban-
an aland; Clapp was
Melbourne - born, but
was trained in the
U.S.A., and held a big
job when Arthur Rob-
inson, then Attorney-
General under Lawson,
spotted him and lured
him back to his home
city in 1920—at £5OOO
a year. When its rail-
ways don’t pay the
Vic. politician always
wants to make a scape-
Commissioner Clapp.
goat of somebody, and
naturally doesn’t select a politician. What
helps him is that every Commissioner has at
least one line of policy that is debatable —
Clapp’s affection for imported American gear,
for instance.
Perhaps the brightest remark recorded at
the Trade-Union Congress in Melbourne was
made by Tudehope, of the Sea Cooks. Tude-
hope said that he “would not attempt to
justify the cooks’ dispute, as the workers were
always justified, no matter what was the
cause.” In past days Labor used to snort
at the sycophants who surrounded kings and
princes and millionaires and told them they
could do no wrong. But Labor has bred its
own sycophants since then, and they are just
as poor creatures and as dangerous as ever
the others were.
THE UNKNOWN BOOKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“W. G. Maliony, ex-M.H.R., who resigned his seat
in favor of Theodore and accounted for a financial
windfall of £5OOO at about this time by the tale
of a big win on Spearfelt in the Melbourne Cup of
1026, was unable to recollect the name of a single
bookmaker who paid him his winnings.”
They sleep, those Unknown Soldiers, 'mid
the roar
Of crowded cities, sleep with naught to tell
Above their stately tombs the names they
bore,
The fields whereon they fell.
And these, albeit they never took the field,
Content the same in strident tones to lay,
These, too, with their identity concealed,
Shall go to Judgment Day.
No shrines will rise above their honored dust
O’er which a grateful nation’s tears may
flow;
And yet these Unknown Peneillers are just
As much incognito,
What time their sturdy calling still they
ply
And split the welkin with stentorian odds,
As thbse the deathless deeds who typify
That make men liker gods.
No Unknown Soldier’s name—gainsay who
can—
In deeper, darker secrecy is hid
Than those game Tommies of the bag-girt
clan
Whom Billy Mahony, that lucky man,
Struck for five thousand quid!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Lump-Vag”: The New Inn, situated half-
way between Littlemoor camp and Wey-
mouth, was well patronised by Diggers,
almost all of whom were known to the boss
and the landlady by name. They were simple
folk, and when Dennis O’Connor, a notori-
ously bad payer, one evening entered the tap-
room, demanded a pint of four-ale, swallowed
it and then disclosed that he couldn’t settle
up till pay-day, the lady evinced no particu-
lar perturbation. She merely opened the
back door and sang out: “Hi, Jarge! Shall
I trust Dinny O’Connor a drink?” Rumb-
lingly came Bung’s voice from afar: “Has ’e
’ad the drink?” “Yes.” It was a moment
before the decision arrived in a resigned
tone. “Then trust ’im !”
*!' * * *
“C.”: Speaking of deserted gaols (B.
18/7/’2B), the quaintest exhibit of all wifi
be found on Lord Howe Island. The struc-
ture might house two prisoners at a pinch;
actually it has never held one, and is used
nowadays as a lumber-room for tennis and
cricketing gear. The oldest inhabitant tells
the story of its arrival when he was a boy,
adding that settlers refused to take delivery,
with the result that the steamer had to take
the tiny penitentiary back to Sydney.' But
the authorities were not going to be flouted
like that; presently the gaol came back in a
warship with a party to erect it. And
there it stands to this day, adding a gleam
of brightness to the existence of the islanders
in their continuous warfare against the rats.
* * ❖
“Yenton”: The bulk petrol lorry was
pulled into the kerb, and the driver had the
Sonnet down, peering into the engine, when
MAKES IT SO HARD FOR A WOMAN.
PERCY: “But if he treats you so badly, Angela, why don’t you sue for a divorce?”
ANGELA: “What’s the good? I’ve used up all his alimony in advance.”
a well-meaning old dame came bouncing up
and tapped him upon the shoulder. “Young
man,” she cried, almost dragging him with
her. “do you know you have a per-
fectly good chain dragging on the ground
and wearing away?” And she pointed to the
earth chain at the back of the lorry. But
the driver was equal to the occasion. “Lor
lummy, Missis, fancy that now,” was his
response, “an’ I’ve been an’ lorst me dorg.”
And he turned back to his engine.
* * * *
“A.H.8.”: Tohi-a-Tapiri (Tapiri’s axe),
one of the finest specimens that survive of
the old Maori war-canoes, has just been
lodged in the new War Memorial Museum
in Auckland. This craft was fashioned by
the Wairoa tribes between Gisborne and
Napier in the thirties of last century, and
book part in a canoe race on Auckland Har-
bor when the late Duke of Edinburgh was
round these parts. She is 80-odd feet long
and used to seat 100 paddlers and fighting-
men. Time was when every Maoriland river
of any size could show dozens of such canoes,
many of them keeping alive the memories of
the old tribal chiefs, but the march of. civi
lisation has done for them. A few lie on
the banks near the villages splitting in the
sun, but most of the larger and better-con-
ditioned have been fitted with oil engines,
generally by pakehas. As they carry a fair
load and have an extremely .shallow draught,
they make speedy and efficient launches.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The American debaters from
Bates College, now arguing their way
through Australia, are not a patch on the
Oxford trio which included Ramsay Mac-
donald’s son. They start with a painful
drawback, as far as an Australian audience is
concerned, in their accent. Nor have they
the unsliakeable good humor which the
Englishmen displayed as they stabbed their
opponents’ arguments to the heart. America
is the home Of mass production, and the
Bates three appear to be typical fruits of
the system. Of individuality their public
utterances show hardly a trace. Yet a sec-
tion of Melbourne is so enamored of every-
thing American that they are being held
up as models for the local youth.
iii * * *
“P.M.”: Country townships aren’t quite
so dull as city dwellers think. The lads
invent their own fun, and that’s a dashed
sight more interesting than having it ready-
made. I know a bank clerk who strove
earnestly to be a sunbeam. He put a mat-
rimonial ad. in the local rag: “Young lady
desires to meet handsome young farmer,
irrigation district preferred, view above,
settle on farm.; several thousand pounds to
invest.” There were nearly 300 replies, about
a quarter of them from his own district, and
to each of the local boys he wrote making
an appointment at the bridge—the lady’s
car would be under the seventh tree from
that impermanent and unproductive work.
On the appointed evening all the young
men in the district seemed to be shooting
or fishing around the bridge and casting sly
glances at the seventh tree, but there was
no sign of the car. Bold spirits ventured a
bit closer, and spied a goat tied up near the
tree. Round its neck was a sugar-bag con-
taining nearly a hundred letters. When a
couple of them recognised their own hand-
writing there was a move to destroy the
whole of the incriminating evidence, but a
sense of humor prevailed, and the arch-
joker, who had contrived to be near the
head of the procession, read the .letters aloud.
There were so many in it that there wasn’t
much room to cast stones.
* * * *
“Sol M.” t The mysterious lost fortune is in
the offing again. A lady of nearly 103 reputed
years has just died in Maoriland. She saw
Queen Victoria in her younger days, but not,
it is believed, either Jezebel or Boadicea. The
thrill of the narrative is that the lady’s
stepmother, who is said to have run a small
school in Sydney before moving to Maoriland,
had a grant of the land “now valued at mil-
lions” which constitutes Sydney’s business
area, but carelessly took the document across
the water with her, and lost it, and no one
seems to have thought of sending for a copy.
When settlement commenced in Maoriland
Sydney was a considerable place and just
beginning to be lit with gas. It was a wildly
foolish act to leave it for savage and canni-
bal parts instead of staying on peacefully
and collecting the ground rents, but lost
fortunes are a law unto themselves, and a
dashed silly one.
“14th Batt.” : I was a prisoner of war in
the hands of the gentle Turk in 1916, and
was working on the Bagdad railway in the
Taurus mountains, when word came through
from Stamboul that British prisoners were
to be allowed to observe their religious festi-
vals, such as Christmas and Easter. On
hearing the news we 10 Diggers reflected
sadly that Christmas was nine weeks off, and
we had better think of some nearer date.
Then one had a brain-wave. In a body we
went up to the German engineer in charge,
and requested to be allowed to observe the
great Australian festival. Our request went
through to H.Q., and was granted for the
day we asked—the following Tuesday. At
that time we were working from 6 a.m. to
6 p.m., with our first meal at 11 a.m., so we
greatly appreciated the rest, and spent the
day loafing and laughing at the 50 Tommies
in our gang, who, having no religious holi-
day to observe, turned out to a day of the
usual hard graft. I’ve since often won-
dered what Abdul would have said —and done
—if he had found out that we were cele-
brating Melbourne Cup day.
NO CAUSE FOR ALARM.
“I wonder who that fellow is that’s come in with my wife?”
“Ooh, I wouldn’t worry about him. It’s only my husband.”
“ Adelaide”: Grange, a seaside suburb of
Adelaide, has a cranky unknown resident
who prowls about on these wintry nights
entirely naked. He has appeared—always
to women —on various roads, in a slow-
moving train near Seaton golf links, and
once at the door of a club-house where a
meeting was being held. So far he has
not been identified, and has never attempted
to molest anybody; but the scare caused
locally is considerable.
* * * *
“E.S.”: We had left our seats for refresh-
ments on the long train run from Broken
Hill. When we got back we found the com-
partment overcrowded by the in-
trusion of two chequered rouse-
abouts and a long chap in leg-
gings. They had a bottle on
board, and had been sampling
other bottles at the pubs. They
played cards for money on an
upended travelling-case. The
money was frequently knocked
on the > floor, and they searched
amongst our legs to recover it.
They refreshed between games,
disagreed about what was
trumps, talked louder and
louder and more disrespectfully
to each other, and at last the
long one in leggings and one
of the other fellows got to
blows. The combatants tumbled
all over the rest of us, and
pounded each other whole-heart-
edly until a portmanteau fell off
the rack and flattened the long
one out. We helped him on to
the platform at the next station,
and did the same kind service for
his mates. Everyone in the com-
partment seemed to be actuated
by the one generous impulse;
while half of them assisted the
trio to alight the other half
carried their coats and bags out
for them. They were quite over-
come by so much civility and
kindness. Then we shut the door and lost
them.
* * * *
“Bolton” : “P.M.’s” yarn about the Lanca-
shire lad who never w r ore owt but clogs
till t’owd woman made him don boots to go
to a funeral (B. 25/7/’2B) is an outrage on
Lancashire, for none of the old-time opera-
tives would, wear anything else than clogs,
even to their own wedding. The true story
concerns an outlander from Newcastle-on-
Tyne, who came to live in Lancashire. His
wife told him to be sure and buy a pair of
clogs, so that he wouldn’t be spotted as a
foreigner. He bought them and put them on.
but didn’t cast up at home till late at night.
His explanation was that his new footgear
didn’t permit him to take steps longer than
“fower inches.” Examination showed that
he had not known enough to cut the short
length of string with which every pair of
clogs is linked heel to heel, so that they can
be hung up in the vast bunches which adorn
the doorways of the clogmakers’ shops.
* * * *
“Verri”: The storv of the Lancashire man
who wore his new boots without cutting the
connecting twine recalls a small Maori boy
we saw on a country roadside. Howling dis-
mally—something unusual in a small Maori
—and hobbling painfully, he excited our sym-
pathy to such an extent that we alighted
from the car to investigate. The lad was on
his way to some important school ceremonial.
“I no wear te poots I no get te kai,” he con-
fided. It did not take us long to diagnose
the cause of his discomfort, but the produc-
tion of a pocket-knife produced a fierce
protest. “You no cut te string,” he yelled.;
“Te wahine sell te poots to-morrow.” Appa-
rently the string was to be a guarantee of
newness. We left him hobbling.
* * * *
“Clerk” : Central Australia and Queensland
having been explored, Clapp’s next Aus-
tralian Reso train will tour Westralia.
Resonians will leave Melbourne on October
9 and return on October 25. In that time and
for an output of 50 guineas apiece they will
travel on four different railway systems,
cover more than 1000 miles by motor, inspect
the Commonwealth Salt Refineries at Lake
Hart, be suitably impressed with the West-
ralian experimental farm at Merredin, give
Northam and Perth the once-ovcr, finger
Katanning’s famous “blue” wool, admire Yal-
lingup’s limestone caves, labor to the summit
of the Darling Ranges, wander into the heart
of the Dwellingup jarrah forests, and craw]
through several mines at Kalgoorlie.
* * =* #
“Mako”: The other day a woman residing
at Onehunga, near Auckland, drew the sum
of £ll7 from the bank, stowed it in her
purse, went to a matinde with a friend, and
found, to her dismay on her return home,
that the purse had disappeared. A frenzied
but futile search followed, and the owner
presently gave up the quest as hopeless.
Three days later the friend on her way to
church was overtaken by a shower, and, find-
ing her umbrella caught by something inside,
shook it and dislodged the missing purse.
As the friend had carried the umbrella and
its precious contents about with her for the
whole three days, the luck of the lady who
lost the purse was amazing.
* * * *
“Shep” : Here’s my entry for the meanest
man competition. The winner of a £5OO tour-
ing car in a shilling lottery complained to
the committee because the petrol tank had
been only half-filled.
* * * *
“F. Seedy”: Re Admiral Hutchison (B.
27/6/’2B) and his discovery of the stickiness
of prickly-pear juice. The same juice was
put to another purpose in the Moree district
(N.S.W.) some time ago. W. Murray, driv-
ing a big Cadillac with several passengers,
was stuck with his last tube punctured 70
miles from Moree. In his extremity he hit
on the idea of trying the prickly-pear cure.
He made a fire and burnt some stalks, made
a poultice of the mess, clapped it on - the
puncture, bound his handkerchief round the
poultice, pumped the tyre up and drove on
to Moree without losing any air.
TO-DAY AIN’T BAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I like those bonzer little pieces where
The poets tell you all about their soitows;
I like to hear them moaning over their
Departed yesterdays and hopeless morrows ;
I like those rhymes about life’s dying
embers,
They make a fellow feel so nice and sad,
Till, dash it all, he suddenly remembers
To-day ain’t bad.
It does me good to hear the poets talk
About the graveyards where their loves
lie sleeping;
How in the moonlight pale they love to
walk
Among the tombs pathetically weeping;
I like to hear them tell of hopes they’ve
buried,
How never, never more will they be glad.
But still it spoils it when a chap has jerried
To-day ain’t bad.
Entranced I read, again and yet again,
That things were better in the days
behind us,
When men were always mates, and mates
were men,
Before this so-called progress came to
blind us.
Yet genuine and full appreciation
Comes mighty hard to anyone who’s had
The prior and the dinkum information
To-day ain’t bad.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.
SPRING FROCKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tho almond dons her new spring gown,
So pink and fine and frilly,
And brave in face of July’s frown —
And August too is chilly—
She flaunts her dainty ruffles gay,
And cares no jot for skies of grey.
Clarissa, too, a new dress wears,
Flower-bordered, silken, clinging;
Pneumonia she blithely dares,
She faces cold winds stinging;
Her cheeks with happy roses glow—
She has the first spring frock to show!
VICTORIA.
EMEL.


“P.M.”: The yarn aboxxt the two French
kids who upset the gravity of a church
parade by arriving in the offing with huge
cigars in fxxll blast (B. 18/7/’2B) reminds
me of an incident when our unit was
travelling by motor-lorry. We had dismounted
from the ’buses to stretch our legs, when a
couple of pretty, well-dressed girls tripped
past; There followed the usxxal chorus in
broken French, “Voulez vous promenade avec
mbit” and other forms of putting the acid
on. The adjutant called the squadron to
ordei - , and we had just lined up and
quietened down, when one of the girls turned
round and said in perfect English, “Nothing
doing, boys. We’re conscientious objectoi-s!”
More disorder.
* * * *
“Exdig”: The steamer Mawatta, which
has been sold to French pui-chasers for the
New Caledonian trade, was formerly the
Germania, owned by the Jaluit Company.
She was in port, repairing the damages re-
ceived in a typhoon, when Britain came into
the war. Another German boat, belonging
to the N.D.L., had early notice of the declar-
ation of war, and nearly ran down Garden
Island in its hurry to get out of the harbor;
but it was some time before anybody noticed
that the Germania, too lame to make a bolt
for it. was still flying the German flag. Some
wharfies went aboard and tore it down,
whereat the indignant captain made a pro-
test to a Customs officer who happened to be
the only representative of authority handy.
It was poor judgment, for the exciseman,
thus abruptly reminded of the fact that
there was a war on, promptly took posses-
sion of the ship singlehanded.
* * * *
“Bildad” : The body of Belgian millionaire
Loewenstein. who disappeared out of his
luxurious private aero-plane somewhere be-
tween England and France, has been found
afloat in the .Channel. That is more in keep-
ing with the evidence than if he had been
found alive, living in a Swiss hotel under an
assumed name with a strange girl, as used to
happen to disreputable old King Leopold of
Belgium, yet it doesn’t help much. The evi-
dence remains that one man couldn’t have
opened the door of the ’plane, either on
purpose or by mistake, owing to the air
pressure, and that if he had done so by
some herculean effort the inrush of the gale
would have told the other inmates, who were
his employees, that the boss was leaving:
If by any chance the employees had em-
bezzled a few million francs of the boss’s
DEFINED AT LAST.
“What’s a flapper, Dad?”
“A young woman, my son, who does what an old maid would like to do but hasn t
the constitution to stand.”
money they might have helped him out to
avoid an audit, but that is a mere matter of
speculation. In a general way a murder is
a problem in five chapters: (1) The-persons
who did it; (2) the reason for doing it; (3)
how it was done; (4) the disposal of the
body; and (5) the explanation, if any, to
be offered when the body turns up. In a
case like that of Deeming, who left two
wives under two hearthstones in two con-
tinents. an explanation could be urgently
demanded from a specific individual, but
Loewenstein’s matter is rather intangible.
The most certain feature of the affair is that
the late lamented must have struck the water
with a prodigious splash.
* * *
“Morita”: The neatness of Australian
uniforms was often admiringly commented
on by Londoners, but those uniforms took
some getting. On our first leave, Horseferry
Road ukased that if a man’s tunic or
breeches were tom they would be replaced,
but not if they were merely dirty, with
the result that Jew clothes dealers were
soon doing a brisk trade in A.I.F. uniforms
at inflated prices. Our next leave saw us
wiser men, and I was one of a compart-
ment full of Australians which spent the
trip from Dover to London in qualifying
for brand new rig-outs. Hats had their
bands pulled off preparatory to being rubbed
on the carriage floor; puttees developed the
“Caught in the barbed wire” touch at the
point of a knife; the elbows of tunics,
usually worn thin easily collapsed after
a few minutes’ rubbing with a rough stone,
as also did 1 the knees of breeches. The catch
came when we had to march from the rail-
way station in London to headquarters under
the gaze of astonished Londoners. Tramps on
an out-back road couldn’t have looked worse.
Our best specimen of dilapidation was a
burly infantryman in a shapeless hat studded
with cigarette holes, his tunic minus one
sleeve from the elbow down, and his shirt
flying in the breeze from a hole in the seat of
his breeches. There were no arguments about
new issues on that occasion.
* * * *
“Ex-Loco”: The annual inspection of lines
by the Railway Commissioners is a farce
perpetrated in Vic. as well as N.S.W. (B.
18/7/’2B). It takes the whole year to get
round all the lines, and for weeks before a
particular section is to be visited official
heads go over the route, warning the
employees that the Commissioners are com-
ing. As the dreaded day comes closer off-
siders ax-rive, urging and almost praying
that everything be clean and tidy. And. of
course, it is so. Then everybody breathes
freely for another year.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: Here’s my contribution to
the peach-brandy controversy (B. 25/7/’2B),
and I have imbibed the stuff in South
Africa from the Paarl to Oliphants River.
It is the special chain-lightning of the Boer
bywoner of the Bushveld, which begins north
of Pi-etoria and stretches to the Limpopo.
The arid country grows little from which
liquor can be made, except the “pescliies,”
as the Dutchmen call them, and the hope-
lessly indigent farmei-s were their own dis-
tillers. Their tipple was of puff-adder viru-
lence, and writer has seen an entire advance
guard of a flying column helplessly blotto
after sti-iking a bywoner’s humpy abandoned
by its ownei-s just after a big brewing. The
after effects of the sweet, syrupy stuff were
devastating, and after that a special patrol
armed with axes was deputed to break up
every cask found in a farm before anyone
could get to it. The matured article of
Cape Colony is a different proposition, and
a good if somewhat fruity iubricant.
* * x *
“W.J.T.”: It, will be hard to kill that
grim old legend, recently resurrected, which
credits the natives of Rossell Island with
having killed and eaten over 300 Chinamen
who landed thei-e after the wx-eck of the St.
Paul. Yet the following passage from a re-
port by Sir William Macgregpr, first Ad-
ministrator of New Guinea, who made an
official visit to Rossell in 1892, surely ought
to have disposed of it long ago. “The native
account,” wx-ites Macgregor, “is that the
Chinese landed and obtained water, sugar-
cane, cocoanuts and all the food they could
find, and then left in boats or rafts and
proceeded northwai-ds. .. . I told a native
that it. had been said that they killed and
ate all the Chinese. His reply was that he
supposed some white men had seen skulls
in native houses and thought that .these were
those of people that they had eaten, -whereas
these skulls were merely those of dead
relatives.” The Chinamen were probably
lost at sea, for Macgregor reported that he
could find nothing to support the story that
the islanders practised cannibalism, and he
thought it probable that even 50 Chinese
would have beaten the natives at the place
of landing. “It seems to me incredible,” he
concluded, “that the 326 Chinese were killed
and eaten at this island, and I therefore
accept the native account as correct.”
* * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Two new ferries, the
Curl Curl and the Dee Why, are shortly to
arrive from Scotland to take ujb the Sydney-
Manly run. The giants would make the old
Breadalbane, which first made the trip regu-
larly, look like a dinghy. The Breadalbane
came to Australia for traffic in Port Phillip,
but was bought by John Randal Carey, who
afterwards helped to start the Daily Tele-
gkaph, for the Manly ferry work, which it
mixed with towage. Carey put another boat,
the old paddle-wheeler Phantom, on the run
in 1559; and although it made a fearful noise
in motion it once did the trip in 25 minutes.
After many other boats had had a share
in the running came the Fail-light and the
Narrabeen, and then Sydney prided itself
upon the Brighton—the last of the paddle-
wheelers.
SAFETY FIRST.
“Damn! Everything I put my hands on to-night seems to go wrong.”
“Then for the love o’ Mike, Bill, keep away from me.”
“St. Ann”: Within a decade the tourist
who wants to see what a Singapore rick-
shaw looks like will have to go to the
Raffles Institute Museum. The municipality,
by an annual reduction of licenses, aims at
eliminating the one-manpower cart (literal
translation of the Jap word), and a good
thing too. The invention of a British mission-
ary in Japan, the vehicle has murdered
more people in a year than cancer or even
the anopheles mosquito. The average pulling
life of a rickshaw coolie is 5§ years.
British residents have never really been
enamored of the picturesque but brutal
means of transportation, and they have had
to endure the scornful comments of Dutch-
men who attribute the absence of rickshaws
in Java to their superior humanitarianism.
although the actual reason is that the
Javanese is too proud to pull a Hollander
about even if the deed were possible.
* * * *
“Bill R.” : In a 10-sliot challenge shield com-
petition at Narooma (N.S.W.), Ernie Hare,
a South Coast crack rifleshot, led off with
a string of six bulls. Without any apparent
change in the light or windage, he then com-
pleted his score with four
misses. And neither the
men on the mound nor
those in the pit could
find a trace of where the
wanderers hit. In a prize
shoot on the Cooma range,
in the same State, Frank
Sparrow fired from the
500 yards mound. The
bullet flicked the dust
from the mound at 400,
then ricochetted on to
the target and registered
an inner. Firing from
3000 yards at Bungen-
dore (N.S.W.), a rifle-
man’s bullet sped through
a mob of starlings cross-
ing the range. It killed
two of the birds, deflected with an
audible whine, and struck the target
shed 20 yards out of line.
* * * *
“Bet Go” : The issue of tablets in Pales-
tine for the purpose of purifying the drink-
ing water did not meet with much apprecia-
tion from the troops. They gave the water
an unpalatable taste, though there was no
reason to doubt that they were germ de-
stroyers, for one of them left on a piece
of leather would quickly burn a hole through
it. Finally, someone discovered that the
tablets dissolved in water would remove rust
from bits and stirrup irons, and it was to
that purpose they were thereafter devoted.
X * if jj:
“Henri”: “A.G.M.’s” par. (B. 18/7/’2B)
concerning the Rajah of Pudukota reminds
me of my old friend the Jam of Tipper
Tooting. Like the late Rajah, the Jam. was
celebrated for his lavish hospitality and
unerring good taste. The incident to which
I refer occurred at a soiree given in honor
of the Czecho-Slovakian Ambassador at the
Jam’s chic little maisonnette in Limehouse.
The world-famous Russian soprano Madame
Drosky had been engaged at a mythical
figure to entertain the Jam’s guests, and it
was whilst she was singing the famous aria
“Mind the Steppes” that the Jam, leaning
confidentially toward me, inquired, in his
beautifully modulated voice, “What do you
think of her execution?” Little dreaming that
a subtle Oriental joke was concealed in his
query, I answered negligently enough: "Not
too bon.” (I should perhaps explain that,
in deference to Mr. le Queux, French is
the language invariably used by us diplo-
mats even when en famille.) Promptly the
Jam, with rare courtesy, seized from the
wall a magnificently jewelled kris, and,
whilst the diva was still bowing before the
storm of applause, neatly disembowelled her
an'd hurled the remains through the French
window, which was fortunately standing
open. The little incident would have passed
unnoticed if a few minutes later an-
ancient bonze had not presented himself
before the company, and, pointing to a
number of small pieces of prima donna
which still clung to his venerable whiskers,
complained bitterly that he had been sitting
on the area steps when Mme. Drosky made
her hurried exit, in consequence whereof
his jibbah had been ruined and his liooTcali
broken beyond repair. He also added in
his quaint patois, “This ’ere little lot’ll cost
yer every bit of a deener, Guvnor.” It was
then that the Jam proved himself the grand
seigneur we had always known him to be.
With admirable sang-froid he showed the
astonished bonze a lakh of rupees, and hand-
ing him five annas remarked, “You are a
fortunate fellow, mon ami. Many members
of the British aristocracy would give their
coronets to have the famous and beautiful
Drosky clinging to their whiskers, whilst
you have had her. so to speak, thrust on
you!” This excellent bon mot went the
round of the clubs, where it soon became
immensely popular. I remember his late
Majesty Edward VII. repeating it to me
no less than 17 times one evening at the
Storytellers’ Club in Whitechapel.
* ❖ * :Ji
“P.X.” : Nobody thinks much of crossing
the Heads to Manly in the boats now on
that run; hut there was a time when the
traffic in the cockleshells was regarded as
highly dangerous. The story is still told on
Sydney Stock Exchange iof a well-known
lawyer. into w-hose hands fell some of the
shares in the original co.; dreading an appal-
ling bill for compensation some day, he gave
himself no rest until he had unburdened him-
self of the lot at a few pence apiece.
* * * *
“Spare Quack” : Sydney Hospital numbers
amongst its most surprising visitors an old
lady of 89 who came along on her lonesome
the other day, and, mentioning that she had
never before had to worry about medical
advice, told the doctor in attendance that her
concern was about a loss of appetite. Finding,
after examination, that she w T as organically
sound, the doctor gave her a tonic to renew
her zest in the recurring meal hours, and
then looked around for the attendant who
was to see her home. He was surprised to
learn that there was mo one with her—she
had a daughter, aged 69, but when they went
out together, the old lady explained, she
‘had to look after the girl.” And with that
she bustled away alone.
# ijs jfc
“Trooper 926”: “P.M.’s” yarn about the
Italian sentry (B. 27/6/’2B) recalls a knock-
baek our mob got during the push before the
fall of Jerusalem. We were going up through
Rami eh and had to pass a dump which was
guarded by 8.W.1.’s (British West Indians).
Ihese lads were mostly from Jamaica and
surrounding islands, and a piece of coal
would have made a white mark on them.
One of our mob gave them greeting. “Sie
Aida, Jumbo!” he said. With anger in his
? a nast y *°°k 0,1 jaw, one of the
E.WI. s detached himself from his cobbers,
came across to where we were halted and
?aul: Book here! Not too much of the
Sie Aida, and cut the ‘Jumbo’ right out!”
BINDINONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When first I rode to Bindinong a dreary
place it seemed—
The sluggish river had no song, the birds
were silent, too;
The sun beat mercilessly down, the iron
housetops gleamed.
And all the way was bare and brown the
weary journey through.
In dx*owsy noon that knew no breeze the
leaves hung drooping there
Till even splendid world-old trees seemed
mutely to despair.
When last I rode to Bindinong—and it was
summer still—
The little river crooned along upon its
winding way;
The birds had wakened in the trees with
fluty call and trill,
A wave of joyous melodies made magical
the day. ...
And as I cantered down the miles with
happy thoughts aglow
I marvelled that a bush-giiTs smiles could
change a township so !
MAOHILAND.
RIVERINA.


The MAESTRO
FJLAIfJER PIAKO
m
mm
m
mmm m
i A
mm
m
“ When Beauty and Beauty Meet
99
There can be no beauty where there is not also
sincerity. Undoubtedly, and in a dual sense,
the Maestro is a monument to beauty. It is
beautiful in appearance —surpassingly so! It
is beautiful in performance —a masterpiece of
tonal richness worthy indeed to reproduce the
master-music of the immortals. But this can
be only because the Maestro is also a monu-
ment to sincerity. Wrought into every least
detail of it, whether of structure or design, is
an unvarying sincerity of purpose —a stead-
fast holding to the ideal of perfection.
0
0
r\
GO.
LTD
□
Showrooms: 340 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Head Office and Factories: TRAFALGAR STREET, ANNANDALE, N.S.W.
BRANCHES—New South Wales: Newcastle, Wollongong, Lismore, Bathurst, Tamworth.
and, Maples at Wagga and Albury. Victoria: Maples, in all Melbourne suburbs. Tasmania:
Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. South Australia: Savery’s Pianos Limited.,
Adelaide. Western Australia: Thomson's Limited. Queensland: G. J. Grice Limited,
Brisbane; Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
ryr
:
kf.
t,W
Designed to achieve
supremacy in the triple
realm of beauty, service
and permanence built
not for momentary profit,
but for enduring esteem
—that is the Maestro.
1 h*
\< °
A beautiful brocure de-
voted to the player
beautiful. May we post
you a copy?
24a.Fp.2S


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Addresn:
“Usherotel, Sydney.’*
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
a
m
■
' '■
■xm.
m
*
Best Quality
Heavy
Silver-plated
Tea and
Coffee Set
on Tray
Complete Set,
as illustrated,
£l5/18/-
or pieces obtain-
able separately.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
PLAIN figures. 23 and 25 HUNTER STREET. cash only.
Only Hie be/t people
<jo to rtteßAb/HAGtt
The most luxurious hotel in the
Southern Hemisphere is the country
home of the nicest people.
Hoßf
Management: G. M. Lievain, Robertson.
Inclusive Tariff, from £l/1/- per
day, or from £6/6/- per week.
Sydney Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street.
’Phone : 86491.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
.Some August birthdays:—
Adelaide’s medico-knight Joseph Verio, 77, on Ist;
R. B. McComas (Melb.), 66, S. H. Smith (N.S.W.
Director of Education), 63, and Mrs. Edith Cowan
(late M.L.A. for W. Perth, first woman M.P. in
Aus.), 67, on 2nd; Adelaide’s ex-Mayor Wallace
Bruce, 50, Archdeacon Charlton (Syd.), 68, knight
Edward Miller (Melb.), 80, and Dr. Borland (Scots’
Church, Melb.), 61, on 3rd ; Federal Senate Presi-
dent Newlands, 64, John Scaddan (W.A.’s former
Premier), 52, and Dr. Dey (Australian Christian
World), 80, on 4th; Norman Jolly (Ma State’s
Forest Commissioner), 46, on sth; Justice Isaacs
(High Court), 73, Dr. W. Chisholm (Syd.), 75,
knight Robt. M. Me. Anderson (Syd.), 61, Principal
Thatcher (Camden Coll.), 65, and Colonel A. 11.
Marks (Q.), 48, on 6tli ; knight Lennon Raws
(Melb.), 50, and poet E. J. Brady, 59, on 7tli; Dr.
Earle Page, 48, and ex-Federal Minister Alex. Povti-
ton, 75, on Bth; N.S.W. Chief Justice Street, 65,
on 9th; P. E. Deane (Prime Minister’s Dept.), 88,
on 10th; ex-Gov.-Gen. Tennyson, 76, Tas. Chief Jus-
tice Nicholls, 60, and E. A. Mann, M.H.R. for Perth,
54, on 11th; Keith Murdoch (Melb. Herald), 43, on
12th; Major-Gen. Nevill Smyth, V.C. (Vic.), 60,
Prof. Morris Miller (Speck), 47, and E. W. Holden
(Adel.), 43, on 14th; Bishop Baker (Bendigo), 46,
and Prof. Elliot Smith, F.R.S., 57, on 15th; Dr.
H. Herman (Vic. State Electricity Commission), 53,
on 16th; R. W. Foster, M.H.R!., 72, on 20th; Bishop
'Dwyer (Maitland), 70, on 21st; American Consul-
General Lawton, 64, on 23rd ; Federal Attorney-Gen.
Latham, 51, and former Federal Attorney-Gen.
Glynn, 73, on 25th; Prof. Osborne (Melb.), 55, on
26th; Prof. Angus (Syd.), 47, Chas. Gavan Duffy
(former Clerk of House of Reps.), 73, and Judge
Dwyer (Pres, of W.A. Arbitration Court), 53, on
27th; Brig.-Gen. Cannan (Q.), 46, J. Spencer Brun-
ton (Syd.), 67, J. W. Pennington, M.L.A. (Vic.), 58,
and W. R. Anderson (formerly Vic. Law Dept.), 73,
on 29th; Admiral de Chair, 64, and Principal
Ronald Macintyre, 65, on 30th; and R. Ewing
(Federal Commissioner of Taxation;, 57, on 31st.
Thus far Australia lias had Only one
Cardinal, Dr. Moran. After the Eucharistic
Congress it is likely to have a second, Dr.
Kelly. Cardinal Cerretti, the Papal delegate,
has also a long list of Monsignors in his
bag.
Bowser, formerly Premier, Chief Secre-
tary, Minister for Health and Speaker, and
Downward. ex-Minister for Mines and Lands,
who were first elected to Yic. Assembly 34
years ago and have held their seats con-
tinuously, intend bo retire from public life
at the end of the present Parliament. There
are even now only six pre-Federation mem-
bers left in Yic. Assembly. The other four
are Peacock, Prendergast, Toutcher and
Lawson. The Uppah Chambah has no pre-
Federation members at all.
Only half a dozen lawyers—Martin, Reid,
Carruthers, Wade, Holman and Bavin —have
reached the Premiership of the Ma State
during the three-quarters of a century it
lias enjoyed responsible government.
Archbishop Sheehan, of Sydney, will be an
outstanding figure in the Eucharistic Con-
gress. He is an authority on the Gaelic
tongue, and at the Irish session he will pre-
side and be the principal speaker. Though ,
he has been overshadowed in Sydney, he is a
great scholar-—a D.D., an M.A. of an Eng-
lish University, a D.Pli. of Louvain, an
author of world-wide repute in R.C. circles,
and withal the humblest of men.
. After 28 years in the Melbourne Pilot Ser-
vice, Captain Fearon has retired and com-
pleted a remarkable record. In Hobson’s
Bay and the Yarra he handled 7970 ships
without a single mishap.
The record lift ever given to a pedestrian
by a motorist goes to Francis Birtles. Pass-
ing through Calcutta on his England-Aus-
tralian drive he overtook P. E. Stollery, a
young Canadian collegian engaged in work-
ing his way round the globe. Birtles took
lum up and landed him in Melbourne—
-9000 miles by road.
Father Pat Hartigan, of Narrandera
(N.S.AV.), alias “John O’Brien,” author of
“Around the Boree Log,” is about to publish
his second book of verse. The proceeds of
the sales of “Around the Boree Log” went
to a charity which reaped a benefit running
into four figures.
J. T. Smyth, just dead in Adelaide at 81,
was an Irishman with a Dublin degree in
engineering before lie came to Australia in
1868. He was a teacher at Chiltern (Vic.),
took a Melbourne 8.A., and was head of the
Hebrew school in Bourke-street West for
seven years. From 1877 he was in the Edu-
cation Department of S.A., beginning with
12 years as headmaster at Norwood (where
many men now of big local repute were his
pupils), and ending with 25 years as senior
of schools. Music was his hobby,
and he dfd great work as organist and choir-
master.
Julius Caesar, at; one lime employed on
Sydney coal hulks, died at Narrabeeu the
other day. Oliver Cromwell and John Dry-
den have both been on the charge-sheets of
Sydney courts; and William Shakspeare
appeared in a case as a witness, and said
he could neither read nor write.
Philip Burdett Reading was one of the
early battlers for the N.S.W. Dental Act,
which so lifted the status of his profession.
At the time of his death the other day, he
had been practising dentistry in Sydney for
•!6 years, lie belonged to the family which
gave the late sole proprietor of the S. M.
Herald his second name : the original John
Fairfax gave his elder boy his mother's
iamily name of Reading.
Mrs. E. A. Cullen, who has passed out at
Warwick (Q.) in her ninety-second year,
was.one of the pioneer women of the Darling
Downs, and node from Brisbane 70 yean
ago over Cunningham’s Gap. She also’ rode
50 miles to the nearest parson for her mar-
riage. One of her sons is the Brisbane har-
bor engineer E. A. Cullen, and a daughter
married E. C. Hall, manager of the Silver-
spur Mines and an old Bulletin contri-
butor.
Major-Gen. Nevill Maskelyne Smyth, V.C.,
K.C.8., who resides at Ivongbool (Vic),
married a daughter
of late Qsmond Wil-
liams, Ist Baronet,
who died at Hamil-
ton (Vic.) in 1927.
Gen. Smyth was in
command of the Ist
Aust. Infantry Bri-
gade at the Darda-
nelles in 1915 and
at the capture of
Pozieres in 1916
and subsequently of
the 2nd Aust. Divi-
sion. He won his
V.C. at Omdurman
in 1898. His father,
the late Wariugton
Smyth, F.R.S. and
a knight, stroked
the Cambridge eight
80 years before the
son was born.
Chief Justice
MURRAY, of
South . Australia,
who, as Chan-
cellor of the
Adelaide Uni.,
has been heading
a campaign to
win for it more
financial support.
T. Iv. Sidcy, who next to Tom Wilford
has the longest record of unbroken service
in Maoriland’s House of Reps., lias decided
to let South Dunedin find another member
at this year’s elections. He is 64, son of
an Otago pioneer settler, and a lawyer by
profession. A great deal of his 27 years
in Parliament has been devoted to an advo-
cacy of daylight saving, and last year he got
his cherished bill passed. He has been a
good servant to his constituency, and had
his share in the triumphs of Seddon, but the
wind blows coldly on old Liberals to-day
and Sidey is probably wise in singing his
“Nunc Dimittis.”
Dr. George Sly has closed his law-books on
his diamond jubilee. Born in Pitt-street,
Sydney, he qualified at 22. after a brilliant
University career; and since then he has
given briefs to Dailey, Martin, Darley, Long
Innes, Windeyer, Julian Salomons and Cul-
len. His younger brother, Dick, leading K.C.
and later Supreme Court Judge, had an even
more brilliant scholastic career. The one
thing neither brother seemed ever able to do
was talk. They were both wretched speakers.
Two schoolmasterly Andersons in Sydney
have made reputations outside their regular
classes. One, afterwards head of Kogarah
State School, used
to be sports master
at Crown-street,
where he coached
Victor Trumper and
other champions.
William Anderson
of St. John’s, Dar-
lingliurst, found his
particular delight in
running concerts,
and Dot Brunton,
Dorothy Seacombe,
Louise Lovely (Car-
basse before she
went to America),
Dorothy Dalton and
Clarrie Coles were
amongst those his
e n c o u r a g ement
helped towards the
lilneliglit. A happily
brief illness has
just rounded off the
amiable life of this
second Anderson at
the age of 65.
SIR JOHN
RUSSELL, the
English agri-
cultural expert,
who is at present
giving Australians
a bit of advice.
A good friend of the Digger, Major John
Guy Sherrington, died lately at a too-early
49. He joined up in 1915 and finished as
D.A.Q.M.G.
A memory of a lovable political character
lias been revived by the death of the widow
of F. W. O’Sullivan. The Owe-Sullivan,
who earned his sobriquet by his lordly gen-
erosity with public and borrowed money, but
was equally free and easy with his own, was
liked by all parties, and to the end of his
Parliamentary career he held the distinc-
tively Labor seat of Belmore (Sydney) with-
out being challenged by a straight-out Labor
man. Mrs. O’Sullivan, when not mothering
him, helped a lot in nursing the organisations
useful to him in his public life. Robbed
of such interests by his death in 1910, she
has been a lonely woman since. She was
71 when she died.
The Boy Scout organisation got a testi-
monial from lan Evans, a Frankston (Vic.)
member, whose promptitude and resource
saved a mate’s life the other day. This
mate was bitten by a tiger-snake. Young lan
applied a ligature, got the victim to a
neighboring golf-house and there scarified
the wound and sucked it. Grateful parents
presented him with a medal at the Scout
birthday rally.
The doyen of Vic. railway guards. Jack
Dunn, has thrown in his green flag at Bal-
larat after waggling it for 40 years. Alto-
gether he has had .45 years’ service. Off
the job lie has put in a power of work for
charities like the Ballarat Orphanage and
Town and City Mission. A plump, little
jovial man, he jolted a full-throated laugh
out of the impassive Commissioner Shannon.
Shannon was' present at the official open-
ing of the Ballarat railway institute rooms,
and Dunn, as local president, welcomed
him in the first speech of the evening. “Mr.
Shannon,” he declared impressively, “we ex-
tend to you a wellty harcome.”
There never before were so many scientists
looking into the secrets of the Barrier Reef
and thereabouts as there will be within the
next month. Besides the English scientists
already mentioned in The Bulletin, along
with representatives of Brisbane and Perth,
eight or ten Sydney men. will be at work, in-
cluding Iredale, the conchologist; Frank
McNeill, Whitley and Livingstone, of the
Museum’s Invertebrates department, who
specialise in coral fauna; Roughley, the
economic zoologist, who, after looking in on
the camp at Low Island, will investigate the
oyster resources of Queensland for the State
Government; and A. S. le Souef and Mr. and
Mrs. Norman Low, who will follow their
own zoological bent.
The rediscovery of the spleen and its
purposes is part of the work already
accomplished by Dr. J. G. Stephens, who
gets the job of radio-therapist to the Can-
cer Research Committee at the Sydney Uni.
Stephens, at the end of a bright University
career, won the Walter and Eliza Hall travei-
lmg research scholarship in medicine, and
was associated with Dr. Lumsden, the cancer
expert, when in England. He was engaged in
the British Empire Cancer Campaign, and
on his return to Sydney became secretary
to the University Cancer Research Com-
mittee.
John Peerless, of Richmond (Vic.),
claims to be the oldest warrior in
\ ictoria, if not in Australia. The veteran,
who is 90, served in the Crimea, and later
in the Maoriland wars. From 1875 to 1895
he was attached to Victoria’s war vessels
Nelson and Cerberus, when lie was pensioned
displays the Crimea, Maoriland
and long-service medals. A comrade of his
is Thomas Seabridge, aged 86 who lives
at Williamstown (Vic.). He joined the
navy in 1855, and was powder-monkey on
a vessel which carried troops to the Crimea.
Dr. R. W. Cilento, director of the Insti-
tute of Tropical Medicine at Townsville,
has been appointed chief quarantine officer
in Queensland vice Dr. Elkington. Cilento
graduated at Adelaide, and after consider-
able war service practised in the Malay
States. After entering the Commonwealth
service lie won a handful of medals in the
Tropical Hygi me Diploma Exam,, at Ixmdon,
in 1922, against over 100 representatives
of British and other countries. It was the
only time an Australian has done it.
Tin' "father” of Melbourne’s Trades Hall
Council, P. ,T. Brandt, who is 71, has not
only purchased the grave in which lie intends
to be buried, but lias erected his tombstone
with inscription—bar date of demise —com-
plete. The inscription reads :
in memory of Paulus Johannus Brandt, of the
Traden Hall. Author of the group seats one ballot
majority vote election. Died aged Year
Mr.-Brandt has been a delegate to the Trades
Hall Council for 81 years, and his system
of preferential voting is in vogue at that
hall.
Of the skippers who made maritime his-
tory in the old wool-clippers, as far as can
be ascertained but one remains—Capt. W.
H. Bennett, who registered his 83rd birth-
day in Melbourne on June 11. He com-
manded the Loch Vennacher when she beat
the flying Cufty Sark by a full day in a
race from Australia to London, the only
time the famous clipper ever struck her
colors to a sailing craft. A less pleasant
experience was when the Loch Vennacher
was dismasted by a cyclone in the Indian
Ocean. Bennett salved her, taking her under
jury rig to the Mauritius, where she was
refitted to continue her voyage to Mel-
bourne. For this fine feat of seamanship he
was awarded Lloyd’s Medal, the V.C. of the
seas. Incidentally, a brother of Jock Gar-
den’s sailed with Capt. Bennett, “and a first-
class man he was, too,” says the old skipper.
Bishop Dwyer
(Maitland) and
Bishop Dwyer
(Wagga) are
brothers. Their
father, the late Wil-
liam Dwyer, was an
inspector of schools
in N.S.W. for many
years. The elder
brother, who suc-
ceeded to the see of
Maitland on the
death of Dr. Mur-
ray in 1909, had
been coadjutor-
bishop from June,
1897, and was the
li rs t Australian-
born to become an
11. C. prelate. The
first 11, C. Bishop of
Brisbane (1859-
1880) and the first
R.C. bishop of
Bathurst (1865-84)
were brothers—
James and Matthew
Quinn.
L.E. LLOYD,
Manager Bank
oj Australasia,
Sydney.
Hogan’s reference in Vic. Assembly last
week to the times of the tyrannical Charles
11. recalls a Frank Tate yarn. The ex-
Director of the Education Department was
giving a history lesson to a class of senior
pupils and was letting himself go on Hampden.
One kid appeared to be hanging with rapture
on his words.' and Tate addressed his remarks
particularly to the lad. When he finished
he turned to the boy and said: “I saw you
were interested; what was it particularly
attracted you?” “Your neck-stud is broken,
sir, and your collar’s been slipping off,” was
the reply.
ROALD AMUNDSEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Like Viking forebears, they who fared them
forth
From many a fiord through seas unknown
to plough,
To earth’s remotest solitudes he came;
First on the Furthest South he Wrote his
name
And left his country’s flag. But the White
North
Holds him for ever now.
He rests, with Arctic vasthess for his grave,
The leader lost, the searcher none may
seek;
Full-measured fame was his, and when he
died
’Twas with the crowning glory glorified.
Strongest among the strong his life who
gave
Striving to save the weak.
He ranged, the first of men, from Pole to
Pole,
The ends of earth had come within his
ken ;
Back, at the call for help, lie went to dare
New dangers, and to rest (like Franklin)
there....
Cut deep upon the Arctic honor roll
The name of Amundsen!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


LOOKING AHEAD.
“Palm Valley. Central Australia, has been described as a potential paradise for tourists.”


iWWUT
New Comfort when the Road is Rough
mmmmm
SxisS
now standard equipment on
THE TOURING MODEL,
£375
Sports
Roadster
Fisher Body £425
Two-door
Sedan - -
. £445
Four-door
Sedan
Fisher Body £485
WARRANTED FOR
ONE YEAR.
TO a riding comfort made unusually notable by its new, long,
low-hung lines and balanced springing, Oakland Six now brings
a final feature to make it the perfect car for all road conditions—-
by the addition of hydraulic shock absorbers front and rear.
The hydraulic shock absorbers, which are standard equipment,
do not merely contribute further towards Oakland’s performance
and long life. They add to the list of improvements and equipment
features which have made Oakland the most remarkable car value
ever offered.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
Metropolitan Distributors:
JOHN McGRATH, LTD., 154 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
GENERAL MOTORS (AUST.) PTY. LTD


asdf
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors; Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), WM. TILLEY (Deputy Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN, ALEX. KING and Dr. 0. A. THELANDEIi.
Total Assets exceed £2,000,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
In the event o£ total * P!Ud *
(2)
In the event ot total tion made f rom policy or bonuses. utuuumu ■-
the ass c a of logs of eye or limb t h r ough accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost evciy contingency.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary
LI 111 IN X CU>U uumuiunu «
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
ni?n RPTTP'P’. SMITH. General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING 7EEK.
Hek Majesty’s Grand Opera
Hoyal “The Silent House
Criterion “Sexes and Sevens”
Palace “The Laughing Optimist”
Empire “Top Hole’
Tivoli Vaudeville
Coronation .Hall (Bondi) Shakspearean Plays
Regent Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Hit-the Heck”
Royal The
New Comedy “The High Road
Atiien-eum “New Brooms^
King’s “The Rudd Family
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
♦
No edifying moral whatever is to
be got from “Thais.” As the opulent
courtesan of Alexandria, Scavizzi lives very
happily and healthily on her diet of sin ; but
penance and contrition suit her so badly
that death finishes the course. As Athanael
Brownlee fails to realise that his concern
for the soul of the light lady is inspired
by admiration for her beauty until his fiery
denunciations of lawless passion have de-
flected her mind from the thoughts of it.
Massenet’s music, although frequently vehe-
ment, is cold, and the master has relied in
places upon the violins, where massed orches-
tration might, have obtained grlqater warmth
and dramatic effect. Brownlee’s interpretation
of the fanatical Athanael was finely dramatic,
and Scavizzi, as Thais, showed at her best
in the scene wherein she is carried away by
a rush of remorse at Athanael’s torrential
appeal, but, at the sound of her com-
panion’?' singing, resumes her mocking de-
fiance of holiness. Browning Mummery
made the best of the limited opportunities
offered to a tenor as Nicias, the lounge-lizard
of the period; and the ballet in the second
act gave Edna Moncriefif a chance.
* * * *
In spite of the vivacity of Toti dal Monte
the performance of “The Barber” was marred
at the outset by the intense seriousness with
which Emilio Ghirardini regarded the part
of Figaro. He livened later, but “Largo
al factotum” missed some of its whimsical
value. However, Bavagnoli made an
admirable frolic of the music, while Antonio
Gelli presented a humorous Bartolo, and
Lomanto an airy Almaviva. Toti dal
STELLA FRANCIS, of “The Laughing Optimist,” at the Sydney
Palace.
Monte chose Benedict’s “Carnival” for the
singing-lesson item, and made a rocket-
like display of the song’s coloratura oppor-
tunities.
* * * *
Saturday afternoon’s matinee saw “Lohen-
grin” with a changed cast. John Brownlee
effectively replaced Rossi Morelli (who had
to appear in “La Tosca” at night) as Telra-
mund, making the combat scene look a good
deal more like a dinkum go, and Marion
Frank was Ortrud. The result was the re-
lease of vocal efforts in three languages
Brownlee kept to French, the new Ortrud
sang in German, and the rest of the company
did their bit in Italian.
* * * *
Between them, Lina Scavizzi, Rossi Morelli
and Angelo Minghetti put a grip on the
audience gathered for the first showing of.
“La Tosca,” and the demonstration was par-
ticularly hearty after the intense second act,
wherein the scheming sensualist Scarpia
(Morelli), in pursuit of the lips of Scavizzi,
receives his deserts in the shape of a bread-
knife in the upper ribs. Morelli dominated
the stage as a thorough-paced villain with
a booming voice to match, while Scavizzi
got every ounce out of the emotions of the
singer, Floria Tosca, agonised by hearing
the cries of her lover under torture. The
delightfully clear voice of Minghetti as. the
painter-lover, Cavaradossi, was allied to a
fine dramatic display. Fugazzola did his
part well with the orchestra; as the grey
dawn broke on the castle parapet in the
third act, the thoughts of the condemned
man waiting for his death swept into the
souls of listeners. Antonio Gelli did another
bit of good work as the/ sacristan in the
church scene.
!'! :|: *
“Rigoletto" comes to-nvorrow (Thursday).
On Saturday the much-anticipated “Tur-
andot” will arrive.
* * *
Allan Wilkie started his new suburban
venture at the Coronation Hall, Bondi
junction, on Saturday night; and the sea-
siders showed their appreciation by packing
the house long before curtain-rise. There
are to be six nightly changes in that loca-
tion ; Drummoyne is the next port of call.
* * *
Percy Hutchison will give the Sydney
Palace a change of bill on Saturday, when
“The Laughing Optimist” makes way for
“Mr. What’s His Name.” Australia will
get a look in on the same date at the Grand
Opera House, where “Robbery Under Arms”
is to be revived. “Top Hole” will cease to
hold the Empire stage after Wednesday of
next week. On the following Saturday
“Models,” allied to a moving picture, comes
in. Margaret Bannerman continues “Sexes
and Sevens” at the Criterion, and “The Silent
House” maintains the Moscovitch reputa-
tion for thrills at the Royal. The long-lived
“Rio Rita” pursues its way at the St. James.
Those remarkably versatile and graceful
musicians, the Ingenues, are at home to mul-
titudes of visitors
at the Sydney
Tivoli; Schult’s
Marionettes, and
Cromwell Knox,
whose easy comedy
gives an impres-
sion that he is
thoroughly enjoy-
ing it himself, sup-
ply strong assist-
ance.
* *
“Happy Nights”
is the title slapped
on the new medley
provided by Frank
O'Brian, Janice
Hart and their con-
freres at Fullers’
Theatre, Sydney.
It is a breezy en-
tertainment, with a
hardworking com-
edian in Sam Ward,
at leas t tw o
sketches of more
than average, merit,
and an unusually
good ballet.
The coming of
“Sunrise” to the
P r inee Edward
Theatre, Sydney,
has introduced _ a
new advance in
photog r a p h y,
though it is hard to
accept the sulky
brute of tbe open-
ing scenes, who
undertakes the
murder of his wife,
as the open-hearted
heuo of later de-
velopments. Re-
lenting, the homi-
cid a 1 individual
takes the lady for
a holiday, and finds
all his love returning, but tragedy await-
ing in a storm on the way home. ihe
wife, again grown precious, is only revived
from death for the sake of the movie public.
“The Garden of Allah” is blooming at the
Regent Theatre; Hoyt’s brackets “The Smart
Set” and “The Escape,” in which Virginia
Valli makes a good showing; “The Miracle of
Lourdes is at the Adyar Hall and Ihe
Dove” at the Crystal Palace; and the Capitol
is this week displaying “Sporting Goods.
The Australian film “The Far Paradise” has
moved round to the Piccadilly. A picture of
“Nelson” is to come to the Strand on Satur-
day next.
“Hit the Deck,” somewhat out of breath
with tolling the world it would be better
than “Rose Marie,” arrived at His Majesty's
on Saturday. Though the claim was not sus-
tained, it had its moments of comparable
glitter, notably in the scene where the inhabi-
tants of a seaport
town in China went
about their daily
round more glori-
ously arrayed than
Toorak in the d.c.
Gus Bluett ap-
peared in the well-
cut habiliments and
poor part of Batt-
ling Smith, A. 8.,
of Lis Majesty's
Coon Navy, where-
in the Blackbottom
has taken the place
of the hornpipe.
Outstanding on the
histrionic and vocal
side was Lance
Fairfax as Bill
Smith, a naval
polygamist in a
large way, with a
branch in every
port, like Reuter’s.
Whenever his love
affair with Annie
Croft was allowed
to interrupt the
dancing he was
most convincing..
As Looloo Martin,
keeper of a coffee-
house, Miss Croft
sells a family dia-
mond for a fortune
and then discovers
that the sailor has
a n aversion t o
marrying money;
wherefore she puts
the cash in trust
to be paid to her
first baby, if bis
name is Smith.
Miss Croft danced
well, sang ill and
acted delightfully.
May Beatty, as
Magnolia, a colored
servant, was pro-
vided with the feeblest part of her long
career, but roused enthusiasm with “Halle-
lujah,” a musicomedy version of a negro
spiritual. Zillah Carter, as Pamela Carr,
was the sort of aristocrat who helps to
make the world safe for democracy. Dancing
and chorus work were F.A.Q. and plentiful
—on the quarterdeck of H.M.S. Inscrutable
in the long first act a sight too plentiful.
* * *
The only theatrical manoeuvre in Mel-
bourne on' Saturday will be Frank Neil’s
disappearance from the Palace. Neil has
had a remarkable season of over a score of
crowded weeks. The goods he purveyed
were largely purchased by small boys.
This variety of theatregoer can get a stalls
seat at a Neil show for sixpence, and one
whom The Bulletin engaged in conversa-
tion mentioned that he had been eight times
to “Up in Mabel’s Room,” and 11 to
“Getting Gertie’s Garter,” shouting on each
occasion a small sister and a smaller male
friend. The young connoisseur of bed-
room dramas further confided that he earned
the award rate of £2 per week hammering
heels on ladies’ shoes, and that 325. went to
his mother, leaving eight for Mr. Neil. If
Mr. Neil is not an enthusiastic advocate of
('hild Endowment, he ought to be.
# * *
“A Sport from Hollow Dog Flat” will
touch its forelock to a city audience for
the first time at the Palace on Saturday.
The rest of Melbourne’s shows are as here-
tofore. “The Patsy,” at the Royal; “New
Brooms,” at the Athenaeum; and “The High
Road,” at the Comedy, continue to give the
ushers a fairly busy time. The chief attrac-
tion of “Good News” at the Princess is the
Varsity Drag, a dance which is bringing
down 'the plaster in a hundred suburban
homes. “The Rudd Family ’ without a
Rudd in it provides easy laughter at the
King’s.
* * *
The closing nights of “The Girl Friend”
at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, were diversi-
fied by the lifting of Irene Murphy from the
chorus to take the place of Lorna Helms,
who was ill. The most arresting thing about
the substitute was not her singing, dancing
or comedy, though they were very good
indeed, but her remarkable physical resem-
blance to Miss Helms. The latter’s appear-
ance is as unusual as it well could be, yet
a craftier management could easily have
passed off the understudy as the star her-
self.
Recent additions to Melb. Tivoli’s bill are
the Bidgrove brothers, “exponents of the lion-
zontal bar,” who expound somewhat unsen-
sationally; and Joe Termini, described as the
Somnolent Melodist, whose drowsy playing
of a violin awakens much appreciative laugh-
ter. Joe is also the fortunate possessor of
a shirtfront which flies up and hits him on
the forehead. Another arrival is M.
Alphonse Berg (if, like other bergs, there
were seven times as much of him below the
surface as above, Alphonse would be 49 feet
BERTHA RICCARDO, the solitary feminine inhabitant of
Moscovitch’s “The Silent House,” at the Sydney Royal.
high). With the aid only of pins and a few
lengths of raw material, Mr. Berg takes two
shining girls in cami-knickers and clothes
them in a few seconds in the latest Parisian
creations. It is a clever act, and should
interest bill-payers.
# .*£ *
A good screen presentation of “The Merry
Widow” is enlivening the week at Hoyt’s
Melbourne house. At the Majestic “Sally
in Our Alley,” the story of the girl who
stayed at home to brighten up the old folks,
is brightening up the evenings for the folks
who don’t.
¥ * *
There was no doubt as to who is young
Australia’s national hero when Chaplin
waddled on to the screen at Melbourne Town
Hall on Saturday afternoon, and started
falling over himself. Charles is the same
stereotyped mime who uses custard-pies in-
stead of epigrams; but none the less lie is
a little artist. “The Circus” is a scream
from first -to last, and is provided with a
curtain-raiser of suitable dulness.
¥ * V
Publicity from the pulpit is the very best
sort the stage can get; and though “Outward
Bound,” now at Adelaide Royal, might per-
haps prefer to be heartily damned by the
churches, praise from that source is doing it
good. As a fact, the play conveys no religious
lesson at all, except perhaps against suicide.
The argument won’t bear a moment’s analy-
sis, but it is a fine, gripping story—all but
the last. 30 minutes. Much is due to the
unusually fine acting of Claude Carter as
the inebriate, Jellico the young padre, Meta
Pelham the charwoman, Mildred Cottel the
unpleasant female, Eardley Turner —with
his resemblance to Norman McKinnel’s man-
ner more marked than ever- —as the improb-
able golf-playing deity, and Charles Browne,
his understudy, who serves out the drinks..
In a “Sherlock Holmes” revival at the P. of
Wales, Carl Eawson gives an unusual but
quite arguable rendering—a plump, chaffing,
good-humored Sherlock.
“Rigalt”: After signing 4 52-weeks’ con-
tract for the Firm a day before she was to
sail for England, Billee Lockwood felt that
at last she had ■been recognised. All sorts
of attractive safeguards had been fixed; there
were to be no maids’ parts, and the salary
was to be attractive. Now Billee is under-
studying Irene Homer in “The Patsy,” and
her recognition is her nightly wait for some-
thing to happen.


Not Initial Cost—But Cost Per Year of Service’
o\ONEf>
ft
ft
'At
ISHtO
Do you judge the worth of the belting you buy by
initial cost by its cost per year of
service? Judged by this latter standard, no greater
value is obtainable than in
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING.
Its first cost is no higher than that of other good belts.
For reliable, efficient, economical power transmission —specify “Pioneer.”
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
J. C. LUDOWICI (SL SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson <Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton
Auckland.
Patterson & Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Recognise Your Duty and Appoint a Reliable Executor
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
(The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australia)
412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
is specially qualified to act as your Executor and Trustee.
Its experience of over 49 years is ample assurance that it will manage vour affairs to the best
L il hke \ n 3? divi< *ual the Company is permanent, and its' Capital and Assets are
available for the protection of Clients interests.
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. 11. MacFarland, M.A., LL.D. (Vice-Chairman)
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart, J. Fordyee.
Empowered by Special Acts of Parliament to operate in the States
of New South Wales and Victoria.
General Manager V. G. WATSON. Manage*-
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Bank of Australia.
Dividends, Written Re-
June, Profits, Ordinaries.* Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
1917.. 134,693 Nil 60,000 9,407
National Bank of Tasmania purchased.
1918.. 145,773 Nil 60,000 10,480
1919.. 167,268 Nil 80,000 13,000
1920.. 197,892 Nil 110,000 16,258
Premiums on new shares, £106,659.. i
1921.. 237,772 15 p.c. = 11,014 251,659 j 13,322
Premiums on new shares, £134,275.. ( nnn
1922.. 228,080 15 p.c. = 37,773 211,001 j 42,209
Premiums on new shares, £14,934.. I
1923.. 234,418 15 p.c. = 52,081 10,000 j 144,78 b
Premiums on new shares, £158,051.. I ... ...
1924.. 264,542 15 p.c. = 57,732 10,000 j 414,954
Premiums on new shares, £233,876.. { „„„
1925.. 300,536 15 p.c. = 87,1Q2 10,000 ]
Premiums on new shares, £204,917.. [ ......
1926.. 319,707 15 p.c. =119,359 20,000 j
Premiums on new shares, £233,328.. 1,299,469
1927.. 341,711 15 p.c. =149,726 25,000 1,381,760
Premiums on new shares, £254,338.. 1,636,098
1928.. 355,019 15 p.c. =185,937 30,000 1,690,486
*Prefs. have had 4 p.c. ( £84,694) each year.
Another 500,000 10s. ords. were offered to
both classes of shareholders in January, one
for six, at the usual 100 p.c. premium. That
made paid capital £3,553,388 at June 30;
there was then another £127,924, of which
£63,962 is share, premiums, to come in. Thus
over the last eight years shareholders have
been called upon to find £2,508,682, one half
capital and the other half share premiums.
The premium, of course, reduces the actual
div. rate on these shares to 7$ p.c. Neverthe-
less since the scrip stands at about 30s. on
the market, the new issues have been in the
nature of substantial bonuses to share-
holders.
The remarkable expansion of this well-
spread business since 1920 has been partly
due to the long run of good seasons which
Australia for the most part has enjoyed. For
28 years prior to that general-manager Heron
and his assistants were busy puttying up the
cracks that the upheaval of the ’nineties
had left in the business. By the time every-
thing was ready for a clean restart, there
was something in. addition to the visible
strength to assist. During the 28 years
in question the ords. had gone hungry and
the prefs. got only meagre rations; they had
to be content with 4 p.c. during the years
of dear money, and with 3 p.c. before that.
The seven new share issues during the last
eight years have, however, somewhat com-
pensated, and there is comfort in the know-
ledge that the bank is in an exceptionally
strong position to maintain the 15 p.c.
ordinary div., thanks largely to the £2,117,350
of pref. capital. After handing the prefs.
their £84,694, and taking £30,000 as against
£25,000 in the previous year to write down
the book value of premises, the balance of
last year’s net earnings was 19.4 p.c. on
average ordinary capital. But the £355,019
at which the year’s net profit was written
was only 7.2 p.c. on average funds (capital
and reserves combined) compared with 7.9
p.c., 1927; 9.7 p.c., 1924. To pay last year’s
divs. those funds had to earn only 5.5 p.c.;
so the margin was still very comfortable.
Here is a view of the expansion from an-
other angle:—•
Gross Profits.* Salaries. Other Charges.
1918 . . £352,477 £154,399 £52,304
1919 •• 405,071 170,558 64,245
1920 .. 481,757 202,479 76,387
10 21 . . 607,261 278.831 90,658
1922 . . 648.062 317,581 102,400
1923 .. 676,210 336,076 105.715
1924 .. 762,325 368,167 129,626
1925 .. 854,836 405,044 149,256
1926 .. 906,463 440,601 148 155
1927 .. 992,451 478,533 172,207
1928 . . 1,056,244 523,484 177,741
*Less taxes and provision for contingencies.
Tax-gatherers of one kind and another now
demand much more than they used to, so
the improvement in business is probably
better than the gross profits indicate. Also
provision is made for contingencies before the
figures are written into the sheet. Consider-
ing the rapid expansion of the business, a
tight hold has been kept upon exes., which,
nevertheless, took 66.3 p.c. of last yea.r , 9
gross profit compared with 65.3 p.c., 1924-
57.8 p.c., 1920.
Balance-sheet figures indicate that Aus-
tralia’s trading position generally is easier
than it was a year ago:—
Liabilities.
1919. 1927. 1928.
Notes .. .. £71,517 £176,124 £226,775
Bills, etc. .. 377,909 1,665,928 1,717,964
Free deposits .. 6,669,835 10,100,108 10,053,365
Fixed deposits .. 5,385,396 11,002,081 12,254,520
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 3,997.750 8,618,536 10,536,579
Advances.. .. 9,733,568 18,381,009 18,331,201
Premises .. .. 499,095 746,760 768,720
The steady increase in the note issue re-
flects the co h ’s expanding conneotipns in
Maoriland. But the movement in the year’s
figures which probably pleases the board
most is the growth of £1,252,439 in fixed
deposits. On the other hand advances
shrank £49,808. A year ago there were
indications of overspending, both Govern-
ment and private, which showed up in too
strong a demand for accommodation; but
tiiat has now been corrected, as indicated by
the ratio of advances to deposits—B2.2 p.c.
at June 30 compared with 87 p.c. and 78.6
p.c. in 1927 and 1926 respectively. Prac-
tically all the money that came in during
the year went into liquids (£10,536,579, up
£1,918,043), making them 43.4 p.c. of the
total debt to the public, compared with 37.6
p.c. and 42.6 p.c. in the two preceding years.
When the books were ruled off at June 30
the bank was holding only £4 12s. 6d. of the
public’s money as against £4 18s. Ud. a
year earlier, and that is an exceptionally
strong position.
The market prices the 10s. ords. at 30s.
or thereabouts; they have a visible net tan-
gible _ backing of 21s Sd. The return at
30s. is 5 p.c. oil a 15 p.c. div. basis. The
£lO prefs.—they participate in new issues,
have priority as to capital, but are only
entitled to 4 p.c., cumulative to 3 p.c.—are
worth about £7 2s. on the market. At
that price the return is 5'J p.c.; and the
backing £25 7s. 2d. in net tangibles.
Australian Cash Orders, Ltd.
Writ- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. ten Off. serves.
1926.. 36,535 22J p.c. = 21,318 2,960 17,361
1927.. 46,575 35 „,, 35,423 2,651 25,862
Goodwill written up £93,367, and that Deficit
amount capitalised .. .. .. 67,505
1928.. 41,421 15 p.c. = 31,034 11,855 68,973
This co., which set up in the cash-order
business in Sydney in 1920, has been ex-
traordinarily successful. And, thanks to a
very generous policy, shareholders have had a
royal time. Of the £198,446 of paid capital
at March 31 no less than £133,609 represents
bonus scrip handed out since 1922. Last
year the hose was turned on and £93,367 of
water pumped into the capital by writing up
goodwill (£112,087), which, by the way, is
not treated as an asset in the table. Nor is
that all; over the last six years cash divi-
dends totalling 87i p.c. have been paid, and
at March 31 a reserve of £36,653, which in-
cludes provision for bad debts, depreciation,
taxation, etc., had accumulated, which with
£6461 from the p. and 1. account reduced the
amount of capital unrepresented by tangible
assets to £68,973. An immediate result of
the wholesale writing up has been that the
profit and div. now wear a less corpulent
look in relation to paid capital than they
used to.
Profits in the table are those claimed by
the accounts before making provision for
bad debts, depreciation, etc., but after de-
ducting taxation on the previous year’s
assessment. The amounts shown as written
off represent net withdrawals from the pro-
miscuous reserve item.
The remarkable expansion of the business
is illustrated by the growth in gross profits,
which climbed from £47,251 in 1923 to
£86,170 last year, when the improvement was
£3llO compared with £10,057 in the previous
term. Owing to a bigger bite for taxation
(£9562) the year’s outgo (£44,749) was
£8264 heavier; thus the profit (£41,421) was
£5154 less than the 1927 figure. Neverthe-
less it amounted to 20.8 p.c. on capital as it
stood at the close of accounts, or if the
writing up is disregarded the ratio is 40.6
p.c. compared with 46 p.c. and 38 p.c. in
the two preceding terms. To most, of course,
the 15 p.c. div. is much juicier than it looks -
it called for only £4389 less than 35 p.c. did
in the previous year. Much of the co.’s suc-
cess has been due to the ability of those
in control, who had graduated in the cash-
order business before the present co. was
launched. That, substantial trade discounts,
constant employment for every penny of
the funds, and apparently a favorable ex-
perience as far as bad debts are concerned
have produced the glittering results.
Here is a comparison of balance-sheet
figures over the last three years:
„., , 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. .. £98,774 £101,974 £198,446
Liabilities .. .. 52,589 46,410 53,099
Freeholds .. .. 39,065 39,135 39,135
Furniture, etc 2,038 2,264 2 545
Book debts, etc. .. 135,028 137,865 142,490
Loans on mortgage .. 000
Cash, etc. .. .. 15,377
The financial position is comfortable enough;
the more or less liquids were almost three
times the amount of the debt (£53,099). A
curious feature of the accounts is the absence
of stocks, an 4 that despite the fact that the
co. has furniture showrooms in Pitt-street—
freehold is in at cost, £39,135. Apparently
the furniture part of the business amounts
to providing facilities for display and sales,
and in that way the management has avoided
the risk that the ordinary retail trader has
to take in carrying stocks. Also it made the
whole of the funds available for cash-order
purposes, thus ensuring maximum earnings.
Other features worthy of note are that
£14,000 was put out on first mortgage last
year, and the turnover increased only 5 p.c.
compared with 9, 14, 16$ and 14 p.c. in
each of the four preceding years. There is a
suggestion there that competition is making
itself felt, and that the co. has ample funds
for its needs. Also that the future ex-
pansion of the business is likely to be less
spectacular.
The public is interested in the 167,068
fully-paid £1 B shares, which have priority
as to capital. In addition there are 18,700 A
(vendor), 19,315 B paid to Is., and 11,712
C (employees’) shares. The lot rank equally
for dividend. Attracted by past performances
the market pays 325. for the B’s. At that
price the investor buys a return of 9.3
p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis, but the backing
amounts to only 15s. 6d. in net tangibles.
Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Brisbane).
Dividends and Written
June. Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1917.. 10,623 8 p.c. = 7,605 1,618 6,900
1918.. 13,925 8 „ „ 7,827 1,998 11,000
1919. . 14,/73 8 „ „ 7,840 1,933 16,000
(Contingency Reserves —shown in table as written
off—capitalised, £6667.)
1920.. 17,127 8 p.c. = 8,925 3,202 21,000
1921.. 16,469 8 „ „ 9.902 2,567 25,000
1922.. 18,071 8 „ „ 10,389 3,682 29,000
1923.. 27,803 10 „ ~ 14,609 8,194 34,000
1924.. 40,170 12i „ ~23,375 5,795 45,000
1925.. 40,205 12$ „ „ 29,219 2,986 53,000
1926.. 41,499 10 „ „ 27,442 2,057 65,000
1927.. 40,554 10 „ „ 29,885 2,169 73,500
1928.. 41,145 10 „ „ 29,885 2,760 82,600
When casting the eye down the profits
column of that table, don’t forget that in
the last five years paid capital (£298,851)
has been nearly doubled. Last year gross
profits (£195,499) fell away £9966, and that
followed a drop of £8932 in the previous
year; but the management was able to make
a cut of £10,557 in exes. (£154,354), and
thus the year’s net result reached 13.8 p.c.
on capital compared with 13.5, 15.1, 17.2,
21.4 and 19 p.c. back to 1923. Other factors
which affected the earning power were keen
competition, drought in the Central West of
Queensland, where the co. has a strong con-
nection, dullness of trade over the rest of the
State and steadily mounting costs. Notwith-
standing all this, the 10 p.c. div. is a comfort-
able matter; it called for less than three-
quarters of the year’s net earnings. Inci-
dentally, the amounts shown as written off
in the table are the annual contributions to
the contingency reserve (now £35,482),
which may perhaps be regarded as true pro-
fit ; if so, visible accumulations amount bo
£117,452. Twice in the last dozen years has
this contingency pot been dipped into to pro-
vide bonus scrip.
_A few years ago the three breweries oper-
ating in Brisbane had practically agreed
upon a merging of their interests, but at the
last moment the Queensland Co. drew out.
Recently the Castlemaine Co. absorbed Per-
kins’s brewing business, and in some quar-
ters this has been interpreted to mean keener
competition in the future. At any rate, the
Queensland Co. is making further additions
to buildings and plant. When these are com-
pleted it is claimed that the brewery will be
replete with the best modern appliances.
Incidentally, the co. has never been able to
win much of a connection in the North;
but it has a pretty good grip on the trade
all over Central, Western and Southern
Queensland, and is thus well placed bo meet
opposition.. During the 1927 term the co. in-
stalled new plant in order to put a light
bitter ale and lager on the market to meet
the competition of bottled ales and lagers
fT-nrn t l -" "•'"thorn States. In that year it
spent £40,581 more than was written off on
plant, etc., and book debts increased £109,536.
To finance all this £142,730 was added to the
outside debt.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows the remarkable expansion of the busi-
ness since 1920:
1920. 1924. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Liabilities.. 31,476 55,122 114,411 257,141 192,898
Fixed assets 73,643 154,455 265,243 305,824 300,598
Stock .. 44,795 64,176 87,307 89,790 93,724
Book debts 45,804 114,115 166,522 276,058 223,904
Cash, etc... 9,846 3,510 4,685 5,485 5,948
A reduction of £52,154 in book debts, etc.
(£223,904), with the year’s surplus earnings,
enabled the board to clip £64,243 off lia-
bilities, reducing them to £192,898. Thus the
more or less liquid surplus (£130,678). in-
cluding stocks (£93,724), was £16,486
stronger than at the close of accounts in
1927.
Since 1920 £186,351 of new capital has
been got in, and the visible lay-by, including
the contingency reserve, has increased
£92,097. On the other hand, £226,955 has
been added to the book value of fixed assets,
including hotel freeholds, and the net increase
in the more or less liquid position amounted
to £61,709. All of which suggests that the
board lias not overstated the profits during
that period.
A year ago the market’s anticipation of
the future was expressed in sales of the scrip
at 285.; but, doubtful of the effects of the
threatened competition, it has now revised
its estimate to 255. 4d. At that figure the
return is a shade under 8 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis; and the backing amounts to
275. lid. in net tangibles.
The Australia Hotel (Sydney).
t Dividends. Nominal
Pref. Written Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. Off. serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1917.. 13,934 1980 6§ p.c. = 10,000 13,354 36,698
1918.. 21,426 1980 8$ „ „ 12,500 1,712 41,932
1919.. 20,290 1980 10 „ „ 15,000 45,242
1920.. 35,014 1980 12$ „ „ 22,500 55,776
Transferred to capital, £25,000.. 30,776
1921.. 32,990 1980 10 p.c. = 25,000 36,786
1922.. 28,954 1980 10 „ „ 25,173 38,587
1923.. 36,825 1980 10 „ „ 25.373 48,059
1924.. 37,486 1980 10 „ „ 25,373 58,192
1925.. 43.678 1980 10 „ „ 25,373 74,517
Asset written up, £108,352 .. 182,869
Transferred to capital, £79,292 .. 103,577
1926.. 54,253 1980 10 p.c. - 38,488 117,362
1927.. 55,138 1980 10 „ „ 38,917 131,603
1928.. 51,660 1980 10 „ „ 38,917 142,366
The bottle department opened during the
year proved a success, and business gener-
ally was satisfactory; so the board wrote
the net result at £40,660 as against £38,538
in 1927; but as unexplained additions to re-
serves were smaller, the table shows a shrink-
age in the profits compared with the pre-
vious year. Actual results, of course, de-
pend upon what lias been spent out of
revenue to replace breakages, etc., and no
hint is given on that point. It is, however,
worthy of note that the book value of plant
and equipment (£67,524) has remained un-
changed for the past five years despite ex-
tensive additions. Excepting last year’s and
the 1922 figures—the latter were affected by
new building operations—there has been no
visible falter in the co.’s progress for more
than a decade.
In the last eight years £104,292 of bonus
scrip has been handed out without over-
doing it. The last gift (£79,292) was in
1925; and although that pulled down the
ratio of profits to capital, the margin be-
tween earnings and distributions is still
comfortable. After handing the prefs. their
£l9BO the balance of last year’s net earnings
was 12.7 p.c. on average ord. capital com-
pared with 13.6, 13.5, 16.4 and 14 p.c. back
to 1924. Corresponding figures were 10.7
p.c., 1922; 8 p.c., 1917. The improvement is
a fine tribute to the management.
At present the only cloud in the co.’s sky
is the possibility of N. S. Wales going
dry. But neither the trade nor the market
is much disturbed about the matter. Inci-
dentally, the maximum compensation payable
in the event of termination of trade is fixed
at three times the average annual net profit
over the last three years, which on the Aus-
tralia’s published figures would amount to
approximately Bs. per share. In addition an
amount, to be determined by the Court, would
probably be payable in respect to depreciation
of the freehold. It was written up £108.352
three years ago and now stands at £485,000,
or 80 p.c. of the tangible assets, and it does
not appear to be overvalued.
Meanwhile the co.’s position continues to
grow more comfortable, as this comparison
of balance-sheet figures shows :
1921. 1925. 1927. 1928.
Stock .. . . £23,544 £11,421 £10,744 £15,235
Book debts, etc. 5,358 5,949 31,126* 35,206*
Cash, etc. .. 4,070 2,370 1,400 1,400
Liquid assets.. £32,972 £19,740 £43,270 £51,841
Liabilities . . 36,782 113,987 47,859 44,382
Excess liabilities £3,810'£94,247 £4,589 £7,459f
Property and equip-
ment .. .. 287,904 444,173 552,524 552,524
•Includes investments. fLiquid surplus.
Over the last three years shareholders have
put up £56,144 in cash, while the net im-
provement in the more or less liquid posi-
tion was £101,706. Thus in addition to
the 1925 bonus shareholders are visibly
£45,562 better off as the result of trading
than they were at the close of accounts in
1925.
Most of the £35,206 (up £4OBO during the
year) at which book debts, etc., appear
represents investments. Their nature is
not stated, but it may be taken for granted
that they are well worth their book value.
The market looks at the past and feeling
confident of the future pays 335. 6d. for
the scrip The return at that figure is 6 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis; and the backing is
295. 6d. in net tangibles.


LONGREACH OIL WELLS, LTD.
Longreach Oil Wells, Ltd.
(Registered under the N.S.W. Companies Acts),
Controlling prospecting rights over 10,000 acres
surrounding No. 2 town bore, Longreach.
CAPITAL, £50,000
(Divided into 100,000 Shares of 10/- each).
50,000 Shares are offered to the public for
subscription, payable as follows: 2/6 per
Share on application, and 2/6 per Share
on allotment, and the balance in Calls,
as required, not to exceed 1/- per Share
per month.
45,000 Shares in reserve.
5,000 Fully-paid Shares to be allotted to the
Vendor on registration as full considera-
tion for preliminary expenses incurred.
100,000
The Share Issue will be closed on August 20
unless the balance of shares available are sub-
scribed in the meantime.
A large number of shares have already been
allotted to applicants in the different States, and
operations have been commenced on the new
Bore.
JDescr/pfu
Sfr>afa
Depots,
/n
fee-t
Se/orf
‘xjrfo.c.a-
cj/vr y*/ <r/7 o' Ao<//c/er /* £>
>2 •//awC/oy Soa/c/ers
Q/ae S&rcfy SAo/&
Grey $A o/e c/raf ffocA
LegAf 3< 7/sc/y SAofe
-* /?oC.A.
S/f/foy S/bo /<? /?ocA
S<?f></y $/*&/&,
Grey 3A o/e
Grey SAe/e
2)oe/i Grey SA<y/e
Z>cr A Grey SAa/e
<Seey SAa/e
Beoven SAa/e
Brown SAo/e
Bro w/7 S/ia/e
Brow/7 SAe/e
Brow/? SAo/e
Grey SAa/e
Grey -SAcr/e
Z)/ayra m
Secß/on
Of
Bore vncf
Cesr/7^ t
fO7
■s7o
AOS
780
S'
Y<?rcf O
Gfanc/
y<os*<y ~
/7<f /?o C. 4
:c/y /O/jbo C./&
5/,
•MS e/'rt'&M&.i
y c?_ J
■ w ' &/~<?7/ £>fy<*/G.
Gv/~* y -fS/ut/C
Or> y <S<y/7 cYs ff>r?a
-S/ZytKl C/oy
to ref &S*G’Jf SA<?/e
ffaref SAo/e y
//<*rcY Z3s*<z y
0/~r/—Zs*>s*3sX>Aj<» S 3 -
<~=r r*<2rf _SA o/e
Grey SAo/a
Grey SAe/e
Gee Ty, GAo /e
fZrflgfey'SZSs,*, t
Gr>ey S/j-&/<z
Mr ref foe A, SefZft&fJL.
HvisftPy
/000
/sos
/7/0
/Bso
/9SO
2060
2/2S
7205
2333
2020
2-99/
ZSB9
ZAAZ
27'Z
2727
Z 777
2&OC.
2350
2950
E
32/0
3268
3290
329
ezrt?/7/7&
7?e/r?ar*/rs,
Scrr-fetc e G-f-ovncf.
SeaT<*/ SO"Cos"& atzea? inGrtp#ac*.
10NGREACH TOWN BORE
Showing strata passed through and
14ft. of OIL SANDS
at 3243 ft.
A quantity of’
GAS and OIL
flowed to the surface with the watei
when the oil sands were tapped.
THIS LOG PROVES
CONCLUSIVELY THE
PRESENCE OF OIL.
StrucA WttV/- 2340? -fo 2352*7 to///ow'
vVof*r 3<rpa/v "/o f/ow <?Y" J?&00 Kf
Struck of 2^7°^
from 253 U *- r To 2584* r was </wy Son</ s toaC
<7o <zar'S*jrs/7jp w^7“^/?*
32+3 f/'ovy <O//
Measure*/ c/eJb/A
0/7 Borfom.
3£ QS ** C'osz/to Sea'fznf
Application for Prospectus, Shares or Information should be
addressed to —
Longreach Oil Wells, Ltd.
Bull’s Chambers,
28 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Apply Now and Get Your Shares at Par.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Directors of
LONGREACH OIL WELLS, LIMITED,
28 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Dears Sirs,— . _ ~
I beg to enclose herewith the sum of £ * being //o
per Share application money for Shares of 10/-
each in the above Company, and I request you to allot to me that number or
Shares in terms of the Company’s Prospectus, dated 13th April, 1928, and I
agree to accept the same or any smaller number or proportion that may be
allotted to me, and I undertake to pay the further sum of 2/6 per Share on
allotment, and the balance as required in Calls of not more than 1/- per
Share per month.
I authorise you to register me as the holder of the Shares in pursuance
of this application, and I agree to be bound by the Memorandum and Articles
of Association of the Company.
PLEASE WRITE DISTINCTLY.
ORDINARY SIGNATURE
NAME IN FULL
(State here whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss)
ADDRESS
OCCUPATION
DATE 1928
If the remittance be made by cheque, the same should be crossed, marked
“not negotiable,” and drawn in favor of the Company, with exchange added
—Longreach or Sydney.
POINTS OF INTEREST TO INVESTORS.
1. Petrolene is already flowing from a bore on
the property (14ft. of oil sand having been
tapped at 3243 ft.).
2. Extract from report by L. C. Ball, 8.E.,
A.1.E.A., Deputy Chief Government Geologist
(see prospectus) : “If relieved of the head due
to the artesian water that fills the casing, it
(the petrolene) would enter the bore-hole
much more freely, and might, perhaps, partly
or wholly fit it, and so become truly a flowing
Oil Well.”
3. Doctor Woolnough, Commonwealth Govern-
ment Oil Expert and Adviser, has inspected
the property with Mr. Ball, and emphasised
that, in his opinion, he considered the pros-
pects of this Company superficially the best
he has seen anywhere in Australia.
4. The Company’s Head Driller, who has recently
arrived from America, reports, after compar-
ing the paraffin wax flowing from the Town
Bore at Longreach (which is in the centre of
this Company’s property) with a sample of
wax brought by him from South America, that
it is similar to that obtained from the bore at
Comodora, Rivadavia, Gulf of St. George,
Patagonia, where an average production of
2000 tons of oil daily was obtained up to
1917, and since that year 3000 tons a day. The
strata is also similar.
THE PRINCIPAL OBJECT OF THIS
COMPANY IS TO PUT DOWN AN
OIL-PRODUCING BORE TO TAP THE
OIL SANDS.
Brisbane Branch Office: C. R. Patterson, Rothwell Chambers, Edward St., Brisbane.
LONGREACH OIL WELLS, LTD.


JUST PUBLISHED.
“Geophysics in Mining”
BY E. DE HAUTPICK, F.G.S.,
FIVE YEARS’ PRACTICE.
INVENTORY OF PRINCIPLES & RESULTS.
“Radium: Future Use”
TELEVISION—GAMMA RAYS.
BY E. DE HAUTPICK, F.G.S,
“How Radium Occurs
in Nature”
Forms of Radium Ore Deposits.
Radium Future Supply (South Australian
Radium Possibilities).
BY E. DE HAUTPICK, F.G.S.
Author of “THE SEARCH FOR RADIUM”
(London, 1910). Forthcoming Volume—
“ Are There Oil Prospects
in Australia?”
BY E. DE HAUTPICK, F.G.S.
&
L
pOORD R &SOn
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
%
DT
• Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
WRITE FOR BOOKLET
setting out the advantages to be obtained by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE OF YOUR WILL,
TRUSTEE OF YOUR MARRIAGE OR OTHER SETTLEMENT, ATTORNEY OR AGENT.
Established over 41 years, during which it has successfully handled almost every class of asset.
Directors; T. H. KELLY (Chairman) ; DR. ROBERT L. FAITHFULL; Sir SAMUEL HORDERN;
WALTER T. BRUNTON; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT; SHEPHEARD E. LAIDLEY.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Managing Director.
MODERATE CHARGES. ECONOMICAL MANAGEMENT.
UNDOUBTED SECURITY.
33 to 39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
H. V. DOUGLASS. Manager.
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY”
FOR AUGUST.
The Great Australian
Guide to Money-making
No Investor, Trustee or Business
Man can afford to be without it.
AUGUST NUMBER READY
FRIDAY NEXT.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/(5.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock 4- GIF 4- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
The varied uses to which Pioneer Wood Pipe is
excellently suited include water supply and reticula-
tion, mining, dredging, irrigation, dairy and general
factory work, conveyance of sewage and heavy fluids,
etc. For its capacity is constant, no corrosion of
any kind chokes down the flow, and it will safely
carry any fluid. Full particulars from The Australian
AVood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
Goodlet and Smith, Ltd. (Sydney).
June, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 10,027 6 p.c. = 9,900 127 55,231
Capital returned, £55,000.
1919.. 9.00 G 8 p.c. = 8,800 206 55,437
1920.. 9,112 8 „ „ 8,800 312 55,749
Assets written up . . 55,000 110,749
Transferred to capital, £llO,OOO.
Balance of reserves ( £749) disappear.
1921.. 20,004 6 p.c. = 13.200 6.804 6.804
1922.. 17,404 7 „ „ 15,400 2,004 8,809
1923.. 17,795 8 „ „ 17,000 195 9,003
Inner reserves disclosed, £26,000 34,003
1924.. 17,621 8 p.c. = 17,600 21 34,024
Capital returned, £llO,OOO
1925.. 11,103 10 p.c. = 11,000 103 34,127
1926.. 11,008 10 „ „ 11,000 8 34,135
1927.. 11.876 10 „ „ 11,000 876 35,011
1928.. 10,094 10 „ ~ 11,000 34,105
That is the first time in the past 20 years
that the board has handed out more than the
admitted net profit (£10,094), which fell
away £I7S2 owing to poorer trading, and
reserves had to be tapped for £906 in order
to pay the 10 p.c. div. However, the board
makes no complaint; on the contrary, it
cheerfully anticipates improvement during
the current term. This is expected to result
froni a new product, manufactured stone for
facing buildings, the output of which was
commenced during the year. Nothing is
said as to how the new article has been
received in the trade.
. Assets were written up £55,000 and all
visible reserves handed out in a £llO,OOO gift
issue eight years ago. This, followed by dis-
closure of £25,000 of inner reserves three
years later, suggests that the directors could,
year by year, have written much larger profits.
But that does not necessarily mean that the
co.’s ordinary trading has been any more
profitable than the figures indicate. For one
thing, the character of the business has
largely changed. At one time the co. had
widely spread building-timber interests, and
had bought freeholds in districts later en-
veloped by the growth of the city. These pro-
perties were gradually disposed of, and no
doubt their appreciation in value was re-
sponsible for some of the inner strength
that was disclosed. A couple of years ago
the co. got rid of its timber interests and de-
cided to give more attention to tile making.
Prior to that a substantial interest was
bought in Kandos .Cement. About a year
ago the holding in that concern, which has
paid a steady 10 p.c. since it was formed
in 1920, amounted to 100,000 shares. Thus
of recent years Goodlet and Smith has been
able to write pretty even profits and pay a
steady 10 p.c. despite what appears to be
poor returns from its own trading.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
reflects changes since 1920 :
1920. 1925. 1928.
Machinery, plant, etc.. £54,000 £lO,OOO £35,000
Stocks 38,085 18,682 1,028
Book debts, shares in
other cos. and cash.. 267,322 125,879 138,443
£359,407 £154,561 £174,471
Liabilities . . . . 129,858 4,934 24,866
Net assets . . .. £229,549 £149,627 £149,605
After allowing for the £25,000 of inner
reserves disclosed in 1923 and the £llO,OOO
of capital returned in the following year, the
improvement in the net asset position
amounts to only £5056 in the last eight years.
Much depends, of course, upon the figure at
which the Kandos Co.’s scrip appears in
Goodlet and Smith’s books. Last year
£I3,OSS was added to the debt (£24,866) and
£14,694 to “sundry debtors and shares in
other cos.” (£138,443). Plant, etc. (£35,000),
unchanged during the year, is said to be
in good order and appears to be in at a con-
servative figure.
The market prices the scrip at 28s. 3d.;
at which figure the return is approximately
7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The backing
amounts to 265. in net tangibles.
To provide funds for the erection in Syd-
ney of a lime-burning and -hydration plant
with a capacity of 21.000 tons p.a., Wilson’s,
Ltd., is offering 34,615 £1 ords. It is ex-
pected that the new plant will result in a
saving of 275. 9d. per ton of burnt lime
produced. On a sales basis of 12,000 tons
per annum the prospectus figures a net profit
of £16,053, after providing for taxation.
That is nearly 23 p.c. on a paid capital of
£70,000.
The co. was formed in 1924 to take over
the lime and cement business of John Wil-
son and Co. Actual profits to date are
not disclosed, but shareholders got 5 p.c.,
1926; 7+ p.c., 1927; interim 6 p.c. p.a. in
December last. Shortly before that the co.
bought all the shares in its neighbor and
competitor, Mt. Frome Lime, Ltd., which
controls marble limestone deposits estimated
at 4,000,000 tons. Savings at the rate of
over £4450 p.a. are said bo have thus far
resulted from the absorption. The output,
which was at the rate of 11.016 tons p.a!
for the first four months of 1928, is said to
be insufficient to meet tbe present demand.
At Dec. 31 issued capital was £35,385, of
which £29,874 was paid up. Liabilities were
£7225, and p. and 1. balance £1096. Fixed
assets were in at £7498; shares in other cos.
£8000; more*or less liquids £17,925. And
there was £3742 of goodwill and £1029 of
preliminary exes, waiting to be wiped off.
On the basis of figures at Dec. 31 the
scrip will have a net tangible backing of
18s. lid. when the present issue is fully sub-
scribed and paid. Much depends upon
whether the proposed capital outlay and pro-
duction costs can be kept within estimates.
* # * *
Longreach Oil Wells, Ltd., has a nominal
capital of £50,000 in 10s. shares, of which
50,000 are offered, 45,000 are in reserve and
the vendor takes 5000 paids, but no cash.
The co. controls the prospecting rights over
10,000 acres surrounding No. 2 town bore,
Longreach. This bore went through 14ft. of
oil sands at 3243 ft. L. C. Ball, the Govern-
ment geologist, says that “if relieved of the
head due to artesian water that fills the
casing, petroleum would enter the borehole
much more freely, and might, perhaps, partly
or wholly fill it, and so become truly a flow-
ing oil well.” Dr. Woolnough has also reported
favorably on the property. The present
issue is to provide funds to put down a
main bore about 300yds. n.e. of the town
bore. A plant has been ordered, and a head
driller recently arrived from America.
* * * *
Roma Blocks Oil Co. has received H. G.
W. Reid’s report. He describes a definite
anticlinal structure suitable for storage and
retention of oil, and recommends a series
of pits on the northern portions to enable
the axis of the anticline to be definitely
located and suitable boring sites selected. The
oil horizon is expected to be met with at
about 3000 feet.
sje H* i\i %
“Catalyst” : Three hypotheses have been so
far advanced to account for the kerosene-
petrol mixture in the discharge from the
Roma bore. Firstly, that it was just slopped
down the bore —kerosene and petrol mixed.
This hypothesis has now no adherents.
Secondly, that it is a filtrate. This view
is supported chiefly by Professor Wool-
nough. Thirdly, that it is a condensate.
This hypothesis has most followers, among
whom are the leading chemists in Queens-
land and Dr. Jensen.
The writer, I think, was the first to point
out, in The Bulletin, that it was a con-
densate and might have travelled many
miles. J. B. Henderson, Government
Analyst for Queensland, now enters the lists
in the July ntumber of the Q’land Govern-
ment Mining Journal. He says the problem
is solely a chemical ione; and, after deter-
mining about a dozen constants in connec-
tion with it, he sums up in this wise:
“These factors are consistent with the oil
being a condensate from the gas in the bore,
but not with its being a natural oil.”
In the same article Mr. Henderson com-
bats the opinion of the American experts
consulted by Timbury, who stated that the
gas, “if run through the absorbers at a
pressure of 1001 b. or thereabouts,” would give
“a far higher yield than 1.2 pints per 3U00.”
“They were evidently not aware,” says Hen-
derson, “that our absorbers were run at pres-
sures of 1001 b. or thereabouts —actually from
1001 b. to 1171 b. per square inch.”
Henderson’s verdict does not affect the
prospects of obtaining oil somewhere in the,
Maranoa basin ; it merely suggests that it is
a foolish waste of money to bore holes along-
side the old bores.
❖ ❖ * *
Strong evidences of ancient volcanic
activity are apparent in New Guinea wher-
ever gold has been found. At the head of one
river now being prospected with promising
results boiling springs emerge. On Koranga
Creek the covered crater formation opened
up payably by Pryke and Joubert indicates
some association with the derivation of the
gold.
Recent statements that ground along
the Wau, near the airplane landing-ground,
lias been proved worth ss. a yard are start-
ling, anid will give certain mining engineers
a pain in the head; their best efforts in the
neighborhood seem to have been about 3d.
Outside of Edie, Koranga will turn out
most gold in that vicinity—possibly, in the
long run, more than Edie itself. An exten-
sive concentration exists in the region of
head water, where in ancient times the wash
was piled up in a huge bend, which, becom-
ing packed, turned the river off, leaving a
big deposit of auriferous silt behind.
H: ❖ H« Hi
New Guinea Goldfields Exploration reports
that the sluicing plant is on its (way to the
field and should start within three months
of its arrival; the water-race is being built.
Clearing on the boundary of No. 2 lease is
said to have exposed approximately 500,000
c.y. valued at 12s. 6d. per yard. No. 3 lease
was costeened and dollied good values. The
co. owns four dredging and sluicing leases
of approximately 240 acres each, known as
Golden Chance Nos. 1, 2. 3 and 4; and four
g.-m. leases of about 50 acres each, the
Golden Peaks. Consulting-engineer W. H.
Clark has been instructed from London to
roll up his sleeves.
He H* ❖ Hi
Owing to the low price of tin and the low
grade of ore lately produced Carpathia
(N.S.W.) has decided to shut down the bat-
tery. In the last fortnight 96 tons were
crushed for 6.6 tons concentrates. The mine
is to be kept working with a skeleton staff
in the hope that prices will rise sufficiently
to enable milling operations to be resumed.
Paid capital is £45,424 in 10s. shares. The
co. paid its last div. (6d.) in Oct., 1926.
* ❖ * *
Great South New Moon Co. is being pro-
moted to buy the South New Moon at Eagle-
hawk (Vic.) for £2OOO cash, of which £lOOO
is payable on registration and £lOOO from
profits. The South New Moon worked three
saddle reefs together with large bodies of
spurs. 40 to 50 feet wide, for a total output
of 233,3300 z., yielding dividends of £514,400.
The last block worked was 550 feet north of
the shaft, where a network of spurs exist, the
walls not being exposed. When tributor s were
working a block at the 500 ft. level they got
out three crushings of 12 tons each, giving
coarse gold averaging 6dwt., 12dwt and
16dwt. to the ton. In his history, “Gold
Mines of the World,” J. H. Curie commented
on the ignorance of the management regard-
ing the values of the ore bodies. Curie was
amazed to find that no assays were taken,
and that the manager of neither the New
Moon nor the South New Moon could tell
him definitely whether certain great blocks
of ore that were developed were payable.
Such was the haphazard manner of mining at
Bendigo for upwards of 70 years. The shaft
is in good working order, and the plant is
sufficient to start work. Promoters take a
good bite at flic cherry—they get 20,000
shares fully paid to ss. in par t payment;
40,000 shares at Is. are being offered.
* * * *
At Timor Petroleum Co.’s meeting, in
Melbourne, A. J. Staunton had a doleful
tale to tell about bad management on the
spot—and he might have dwelt a little on
the handling of affairs in Melbourne. Paid
capital is £116,570, of which £56,530 was put
up in cash, and only £3OOO of it is left. Now
£7OOO is wanted to work several extra plants
for seven months. This the board proposed to
raise by giving one free fully-paid share for
every share now subscribed at £l. Failing
a satisfactory response by shareholders, the
board asked for authority to close with one
of the offers it had received to buy or lease
the properties. The board can now grant
leases on a royalty of 10 p.c. of the value
of oil produced.
* * * *
Despite tales about good things, Adelaide
has wisely decided to have nothing to do
with the alleged goldfield at Cosmo Newbery
Ranges (W.A.). The reason given is re-
moteness and consequent high cost of ex-
ploratory and development work. However,
as the discoveries were in a belt of country
which in the past has been notorious for
failures, it probably doesn’t matter much.
* * * *
Uncivil questions are being asked in Lon-
don about the Star Emerald Syndicate
(W.A.) and its works. The last balance-
sheet submitted in Dec., 1927, showed £3400
cash and a stock of unvalued emeralds after
paying £30,000 for six leases, £4Ol for plant,
roughly £4500 “other expenditure in London
and Australia,” and preliminary expenses
which figure as an asset worth £896. On this
financial position together with rumors of
the discovery of some “very valuable” stones,
a market valuation of £400,000, or over 50s.
per ss. share, was recently placed. Now the
scrip is almost unsaleable. So far only about
£5OO worth of. the 16,000 carats of rough
emeralds said to be in the syndicate’s
possession appear to have been sold at prices
ranging from Bs. to £l5 per carat, and some
people are wondering whether the balance
on hand are emeralds or beryls.
* * * *
,J. A. Agnew, who has joined the Lake
View and Star board in London, owes his
rise in the mining world to Hoover, with
whom he was associated first as underground
manager of the Sons of Gwalia and after-
wards in the control of a group of mines
at Korea. Later Hoover got him appointed
general manager of Bewick, Moreing and
Co. in Westralia, and afterwards induced
him to go to London. Now Agnew is regarded
as one of the ablest mining men in the world,
and is on the board of several big corpora-
tions, including the Consolidated and New
Consolidated Goldfields of South Africa, and
Wiluna mines.
* * * *
A visiting London director has caused
some uneasiness on the Kalgoorlic-Boulder
belt (W.A.) by condemning the common
practice there of officials holding shares in
tributes in the mines on which they are
employed—a practice which has given rise
to a couple of scandals in the past. He
thinks that this sort of thing should be
simply made illegal.
* * * *
Chairman Moreing spoke hopefully of the
future at the Sons of Gwalia meeting in
London on June 18. He said that, making
allowance for some impoverishment in depth
there were grounds for believing that an
intensive exploration campaign had good
prospects of developing reserves which would
give profitable returns. Meanwhile, with
Government assistance and high-grade effici-
ency, the co. manages to keep several hun-
dred men in work. But for shareholders,
nothing!
j|e * :js H«
Emu Co., which abandoned a promising
show* at Wiluna (W.A.) some time ago, has
induced the Federal Government to subsidise
some prospecting which is being done on its
behalf in the Northern Territory. At Wiluna
the co.’s diamond drill struck a big body of
+oz. ore at depth on a block adjoining the
Wiluna Co.’s property, and then for some
unaccountable reason gave up and went
away.
* * * *
Tarcoola Blocks, which failed again and
again to make a living out of goldmining
in Westralia and then turned its attention
to the Northampton lead field, has just
handed over some plant to the State Gov-
ernment in settlement of an expended loan.
The co.’s prospects seemed all right for a
time, but a big drop in the metal market
coupled with doubtful appearances at depth
settled it.
* * * #
Ratrut Basin’s No. 1 dredge should begin
digging by the end of this month. This is
the old dredge removed from Renong to the
new property at Sichon, and its performance
is being looked forward to, since Sichon is
rated a valuable property. The area is esti-
mated to contain 22+ million yards going
from 12 to 28 oz., and if the mean of that
can be obtained the sorrows of the board
should soon be over, even if there is a con-
siderable dead horse to work off. Recently
the co. borrowed £30.000 to tide it over
unexpected delays. When the new No. 2
dredge comes into action at the end of this
year the plant should turn over 230,000 c.y.
per month. If actual values arc anything
like estimates good profits can be looked for.
H* * Hi
Kuala Kampar, Alluvial Tin’s latest amal-
gamation, will pay a div. of 4d. on Aug.
15. The amalgamation took place in April
last. Subscribed capital is £585,000 in
I.os. shares, which the market prices at
12s. 7d.
« ib A


The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
TWENTY-EIGHTH REPORT
the Annual General Meeting, held at the Banking House, Sydney, on Tuesday, 24th July, 1928, at noon.
Of the Directors, presented at
1. We submit the Accounts for the Year ended 30th June, 19-8, which have been
examined and certified to by the Auditors, and show the following results.—
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year, after
making full provision for all Bad and Doubtful
Debts, deducting Rebate on Current Buis, and
Expenses of Management, Directors’ £fnd Auditors
Fees, Interest on Fixed Deposits, Kates, etc.,
amounts to £2 <6,724 7 2
Less Graduated Land and Income Taxes for the year 59,983 0 0
Profit for the Year .. .. £216,741 7 2
From this amount the following
appropriations have been made:
Transfer to Reserve Fund..
Interim Half-yearly Dividend at
the rate of 8 per cent, per
annum was paid in January
last, absorbing ..
and a final Half-yearly Divi-
dend at the rate of 8 per cent,
per annum is now recommended,
amounting to
£40,000 0 0
£88,320 0 0
88,320 0 0
170,640 0 0
216,640 0 0
Brought forward from last Year
Balance . . £101 7 2
. . 26,663 10 10
Leaving to be carried forward
.. £26,764 18 0
2. By the payment of final instalments of £13,760 10s. Od. on Capital, Account,
due on 1st July, 1927, in connection with the issue of new shares, the Bank’s Capital
has now been increased to £2,208,000. Similarly £6,S80 5s. Od., due on Piemium Account,
has been added to the Reserve Fund; which with £40,000 now appropriated from
profits as above, raises that fund to £1,046,880 5s. Od.
3. During the year a Branch of the Bank known as.“Exchange Branch” was opened
at 61 Pitt-street, Sydney: Darlington Point Receiving Office was converted into a
Branch: and the Pambula Branch and the Woollalira Receiving Office were withdrawn.
4. It devolves upon this Meeting to elect two Directors in the place of Sir Mark
Sheldon and Herbert Royse Lysaght, who retire in accordance with the provision of
Clause 104 of the Articles of Association. Both are eligible apd offer themselves for
re-election.
5. In terms of Clause 171 of the Articles of Association, it is also necessary to
elect two Auditors in the place of Milton F. Johnson, F.C.P.A., and William II. Pony,
F.C.P.A., who retire in accordance with the Articles of Association. The latter is
eligible and offers himself for re-election, and Eric R. Mitchell, F.C.P.A., has given
notice that he is a candidate for election in place of Mr. Johnson.
6. A resolution wili be submitted in connection with the alterations of the Articles
of Association in accordance with the Notice which has been duly published.
MARK SHELDON,
Sydney, 20th July, 1928. Chairman.
BALANCE SHEET.
(Including London Office—by Cable.) 30th JUNE, 1928.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised capital
Subscribed capital
To Capital paid-up .. . . ... • •
„ Reserve Fund
„ Customers’ Deposits and other Liabilities
„ Government Deposits . . . •
Bills in Circulation and other amounts payable
Balances due to other Banks ..
Profit and Loss Account: —
Balance
For Dividend .. • • £88,320 0 0
To increase amount carried
forward .. .. 101 7 2
£3,254,880 5 0
Brought forward from 30th June, 1927..
£88,421 7 2
26,663 10 10
£15,253,487 18 1
£115,084 18 0
£18,623,453 1 1
Contingent Liabilities, consisting of Letters of Credit, etc.; for which customers are
responsible to the Bank, £963,031 19s. Id.
XXOO-Lli-X. KJ*
By Coin and Bullion . . . . • • • • • •
„ Australian Notes and Cash with Commonwealth
Bank .. • • • • • ■
„ Cash at London Bankers and at short call in
London
„ British Treasury Bills and other Government
and Municipal Securities
„ Balances due by other Banks
„ Bills Receivable and Remittances in transit ..
£786,886 17 11
1,124,058 13 0
1,439,191 16 6
730,210 19 1
512,378 13 6
2,259,246 10 8
Bills Discounted, Loans, Advances, all other Debts due to the
Bank, and other Assets
Bank Premises
£6,851,973 10
11,406,259 12
365,219 18
8
3
9
£18,623,453 1 1
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
Cr.
To Transfer to Reservo Fund (now £1,046,880 os. Od.) • • • • ••
„ Interim Half-yearly Dividend paid . . • • • • 6 U
„ Final Half-yearly Dividend recommended . . . . 88,cwO U U
£40,000 0 0
£176,640 0 0
„ Balance to be carried down
£216,640 0
101 7
£216,741 7 2
too
By Profit for the year ended 80th June, 1928 . .
Less Graduated Land and Income Taxes
£276,724 7 2
59,983 0 0
£216,741 7 2
By Nett Profit for the Y ear ..
By Balance to be brought down —after payment of Dividend £88,320
recommended . .
„ Balance brought forward from last year .. .. .. • • • •
£216,741 7 2
£101 7 2
26,663 10 10
To be carried forward ..
.. £26,764 18 0
MARK SHELDON, Chairman.
C. M. 0. SHANNON, General Manager.
MILTON F. JOHNSON \
WILLIAM H. PERRY j
Auditors.
Fellows of the Australasian Corporation of Public Accountants
AUDITORS’ REPORT. , Ti , . it _ .
We have examined the above Balance Sheet, made up to 30th June, 1928, and report that we find the several items therein stated to conform to the Balances m the General
Slbtddly Office .in Sydney on the 30th June 1928 and hereby certify that we have found them
correct. We further certify tha^all f Vouchers, BaX'Tn'Vew" Soufti WaSQ^efnslknd!'ViSoria, the date of Balancing
n V of T'he A^istralian y ßjmk e 'of Commerce Limited,
and JWSwS thl state" of the Company’s affairs as shown by the Books of the Company.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE, LIMITED.
The Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders of The Australian Bank of Commerce, Limited, w
held to-day Tuesday, 24th July, 1928, at the Banking House, King and George Streets, Sydney,
Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman of Directors, presiding.
In moving the adoption of the Report and Balance Sheet, the Chairman said:—
I have pleasure in presenting to you our Annual Report and Twenty-eighth Balance Sheet. ou
will note from the Balance Sheet that all the shares issued in February, 1927, are now fully paid up,
the issued Capital now totalling £2,208,000. Similarly an amount of £6BBO 55., representing balance
of premiums payable on these new shares, has been credited to Reserve Fund.
In addition, an appropriation of £40,000 from the profits of the year now under review has
increased that Fund,to £1,046,880 55., the Bank’s total issued Capital pirn Reserve Fund thus amount-
ing to £3,254,880 ss. . .
Our Deposits at £14,018,000 show an increase of £817,000 as compared with an increase of
£738,000 a year ago—while our total liabilities to the public amount to £15,253,000.
On the assets side cash and other items of a specially liquid nature total .£ 6,85 1 , 000 equal to
9s in the £of our liabilities to the public—the proportion of our liquid assets being thus sll ghtly
increased in comparison with the figure .of Bs. Bd. in the £ shown in the two immediately preceding
Balance Sheets. The strength of the Bank’s financial position is thus indicated.
Bills Receivable and Remittances in transit show considerable reduction due to the earlier closing
of the export selling season here. As a result a large proportion of our purchases of export bills has
matured, and the money has been received in London, at an earlier date than last season. Our ca. h
at London bankers and at Short Call in London, therefore, shows the substantial increase of £1,090,000
while our holding of British Treasury Bills and other Government securities is also _ larger b.
£379,000 the bulk of this increase being in Commonwealth Bonds, to which I will again refer.
Bills Discounted, Loans and Advances at £11,406,000 show a decrease of £57,000.
You will remember that the £36,000,000 Commonwealth Loan which closed on 31st January, 1928,
was not fully subscribed by the public, and the Australian Banks, as Underwriters to the Loan, we e
called upon to take up a considerable portion thereof exceeding £10,000,000.
As this position was generally anticipated before the Loan closed, naturally Bank Advances had
to be curtailed to enable us to take up the proportion to which we were committed under the Under-
writing Contract. This is also reflected in our holding of Government securities referred to a moment
The net profits of the year amount to £216,741 —after allowing for graduated Land and Income
Taxes which you will see again show an increased charge to the Ba.nk. Compared with last year
these’net profits show a decrease of £1326. We propose to pay a final dividend at the rate of 8 per
cent, per annum, as previously, absorbing £176,640 on Dividend Account for the year, and to
transfer £40,000 to Reserve Fund, raising that Fund, as stated, to £1,046,880 ss. Our gross profits
for the year under review had been well maintained ; but expenses and taxation have more than
absorbed our increased earnings.
Dealing with the question of profits, at our last Annual Meeting I referred to increased taxation
and other costs which we were called upon to bear under enactments and decisions over which the
Directors and the management have no control. I have already referred to Land and Income Taxes;
but bevond this the decision of the Industrial Arbitration Court of New South Wales as to conditions
and allowances have very materially increased the cost of conducting the business. These heavy extra
costs must ultimately be borne by the public.
Any extra burdens which commerce and industry are called upon to bear in this direction at the
present juncture will impair development, and must reduce prosperity and employment throughout the
country. There are indications of this in various directions, notably in the Coal Industry, which has
arrived at the position anticipated for some time past by those who have given careful thought to the
subject The imposts and onerous burdens and conditions imposed on that industry are indeed having
a crippling effect, while the results to individuals employed in the industry are certainly unfortunate.
It is idle to suppose that such charges and imposts can be placed, as they have been in the past, almost
indiscriminately and without due regard to facts and to natural economic laws; and still to expect
industry to be able to compete under modern conditions.
The time has arrived when anyone who has any interest in the country and has the welfare of its
people at heart must give serious thought to the conditions under which we now find ourselves. It is
no use blinking facts; and it must be recognised without delay that the recent practice of disregard-
ing what industry can bear, in the way of charges, cannot continue if this country is to be prosperous
and progressive.
Undoubtedly in the development of this country, as in the case of every new country, capital
must be imported. On the other hand, every care and precaution should be taken that such capital
as is used in this, development is wisely and judiciously expended; and not, as we are afraid it has
been in the past few years in many directions, in the way of bolstering up conditions which are not
justified, Take, for instance, the case of the Railways throughout Australia. Their case must give
everyone cause for concern.
Another aspect of this particular question is that modern conditions and development of other
means of transport have changed the usefulness of Railways to a certain extent. This is the experi-
ence in other countries ; and is an experience which Australia cannot avoid. In this direction alone
we think a great deal can be done in the way of avoiding misapplied expenditure by taking into
consideration such modern developments and requirements as against more old-fashioned methods. It
is common knowledge that there are many Railways in Australia to-day which are not paying, while
the purposes for which they are used could be served more effectively by good roads. In spite of these
facts we see the. proposed building of even more of these Railways—which admittedly will never pay
running costs for many years, if ever. In our opinion it is time a closer scrutiny was given to
Government expenditure in this and other directions.
Decrease in taxation can be effected by the Governments by closer watch over expenditure. Such
a policy would release money now collected in taxes for industry and commerce; and would have a
beneficial effect on the whole country, tending to foster employment and the absorption of more people,
and in the end would, I venture to say, produce more revenue to the Governments themselves.
There has been a slight amelioration of the position in regard to excess of imports over exports
—to which I referred a year ago. Latterly imports have shown some reduction, and it is to be noped
in the best interests of the community that further reduction in imports other than essential imports,
may now be experienced.
The fact of the whole of the Wool Clip having found a market earlier than usual appears to point
to a prospect of maintenance for the present at any rate of the demand for Wool, and the consequent
high range of values.
Reduced expenditure for imports of luxuries and maintenance of good prices for our primary pro-
ducts, together with a high volume of production, are indeed necessities now that Government Loans
are becoming more difficult to place overseas. A real surplus of income is a far more healthy basis
for development of a country than are such overseas Loans —justified as the latter may be under certain
circumstances referred to, and within reasonable limits.
While the prices of Wool and our other commodities are not capable of being controlled, the
spending of moneys both by Governments and individuals is a matter which, to some extent at any
rate, is under their own control.
In the neighboring Dominion of New Zealand, Barn; Overdraft rates have recently been reduced,
bringing these rates more closely into line with those ruling in Australia. At the same time Fixed
Deposit rates in New Zealand have been reduced, and now the maximum rate in New Zealand is 41
per cent, as compared with 5 per cent, allowed in Australia.
In the cattle industry there is some improvement due largely to growing increase in the local
demand.
During the past year wheat production was disappointing.
In New South Wales the prospects for the coming season so far are very favorable, though in a
few places further rains are needed. In Queensland the drought in far central and north-western divi-
sions continues —though elsewhere a good rainfall has been experienced. Victoria is reported to be in
a favorable condition; so also are the southern portions of South Australia and Western Australia;
in both these States a considerable portion of the northern pastoral country remains dry.
The motion was seconded by Dr. G. J. Sly and carried unanimously.
Sir Mark Sheldon and Mr. H. R. Lysaght were re-elected Directors; and Messrs. William H. Perry,
F.C.P.A., and Eric R. Mitchell, F.C.P.A., were appointed Auditors.
A Special Resolution was also moved by the Chairman, seconded by Mr. H. R. Lysaght, and
carried unanimously:—
“That the Articles of Association of the Company be and the same are hereby repealed
and that the draft Articles of Association now produced and identified by the signature of the
General Manager be the Articles of Association of the Company.”
A hearty vote of thanks to the Chairman and Directors and the General Manager and Staff was
moved by Mr. Kelso King, seconded by Mr. Bell-and carried with acclamation.
The Chairman declared the dividend is now payable.
At a subsequent Meeting of the Board Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., was re-elected Chairman of
Directors for the ensuing year.


This notice is not to be regarded as an invitation to subscribe for Shares, and applications will only be received on the footing of the full prospectus and on the forms issued therewith.
This Company is issuing a prospectus dated the 31st day of July, 1928, a copy of which has been filed with the Registrar of Comnanipc w . .... , . .
for 155,000 8 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each, and 229,155 Ordinary Shares cf £1 each. 1 " u tate Tasmania, notifying subscriptions
The following Statements, amongst others, are contained in the Prospectus.
at par
THE SUBSCRIPTION LIST WILL BE CLOSED AT NOON ON FRIDAY, THE 31st AUGUST, 1928.
GOLIATH PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY LIMITED
REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACT 1920 (TASMANIA).
L. ENNIS,
T.
GATENBY,
Directors.
O-8.E., for Dorman, Long and Co., Ltd., Director of Construction, Sydney Harbor Bridge.
S. NETTLEFOLD, General Manager, Hume Pipe Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Melbourne, Vie.
HAROLD J. BROCK, Pastoralist, Hobart, Tasmania.
LIEUT.-COL. CHARLES MILLS, V.D., Grazier, Longford, Tasmania.
DR. J. RAMSAY, C.8.E., M.S., Launceston, Tasmania.
Bankers for the Company.
THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN BANK, LIMITED.
Bankers for the Underwriters.
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED.
Solicitors.
ALLEN, ALLEN, and lIEMSLEY, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
JOHNSON, and WALKER, Commercial Bank of Australia Chambers, Hobart, Tasmania.
Auditors.
w?ii? B r^ ARD, J and HARDIE, O’Connell-street, Sydney.
WISE, LORD, and FERGUSON, A.M.P. Chambers, Hobart, Tasmania,
Brokers.
0. PUENKR and CO., 115 Pitt-street, Sydney,
rr CrOODALL and CO., Queen-street, Melbourne.
H. W. BAYLEY and CO., Elizabeth-street, Hobart.
General Managers.
DORMAN, LONG, and COMPANY, LIMITED, 6 George-street North, Sydney.
Secretary and Registered Office.
WALTER J. SMYTH, A.C.P.A., ltailton, Tasmania.
NOMINAL CAPITAL
£600,000. Divided into 600,000 shares of £1 each, of which—
155,000 PREFERENCE SHARES are now offered for subscription carrying cumulative preference dividends at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum on the
capital for the time being paid up thereon and ranking as regards dividends in priority to the Ordinary Shares, with a right on a winding up to be
paid all arrears of preferential dividend, whether earned or declared or not, down to the commencement of the winding-up, and also to be repaid
in priority to the Ordinary Shares the amount of capital paid up or credited as paid up on the Preference Shares, but not conferring the right to
any further participation in profits or assets. Subscriptions are payable at the rate of 2/6 per share on application, 2/6 per share on allotment,
and the balance in calls not exceeding 2/6 per share at intervals of not less than three months ’ £155 000
25,000 PREFERENCE SHARES carrying cumulative preference dividends at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum on the capital for the time being paid up
thereon and ranking as regards dividends in priority to the Ordinary Shares, with a right on a winding up to be paid all arrears of preferential
dividend, whether earned or declared or not, down to the commencement of the winding up, and also to be repaid in priority to the Ordinary
Shares the amount of capital paid up or credited as paid up on the Preference Shares, but not conferring the right to any further participation in profits
000 1 ee nDmuADvcu * are be ' ng P urchased b y Tasmanian Cement Proprietary, Limited, in terms of the agreement for sale hereinafter mentioned. . . £25,000
229,155 ORDINARY SHARES are now offered for subscription, payable 2/6 per share on application, 2/6 per share on allotment, and the balance in
calls not exceeding 2/6 per share at intervals of not less than three months £229 155
2fP5!£ RY SH^ R ES are being purchased by Tasmanian Cement Proprietary, Limited, in terms of the agreement for sale hereinafter mentioned £14o!845
50,000 SHARES are to be held in reserve £5q qqq
£600,000
600,000
Shares for Public Subscription.
155,000 Preference Shares and 229,155 Ordinary Shares are now offered for public subscription.
Applications must be addressed to the Company’s brokers, or to members of any recognised Stock
Exchange, or to any branch in Australia and Tasmania of either the English, Scottish and Australian
Bank, Limited, or the National Bank of Australasia, Ltd., or to the Secretary of the Company.
Application and allotment money and any subsequent call will be accepted free of exchange in anv
capital city of Australia.
Allotment notices will be issued as soon as practicable after the closing of the subscription lists.
In case a lesser number of shares is allotted than is applied for the excess of the application
money will be applied in or towards payment of the amount payable on allotment and the balance (if
any) will be returned to the applicant in full.
If no allotment is made the application money will be refunded in full.
Application will be made in due course to hdve the shares listed on Hobart, Launceston, Sydney,
Melbourne and Adelaide Stock Exchanges.
Brokerage at the rate of sixpence per share will be paid on all shares applied for and allotted on
applications identified as coming from any member of the Stock Exchange.
Underwriting.
Of the above shares now offered for subscription 117,500 preference shares and 117,500 ordinary
shares have been underwritten. The underwriters also have an option to subscribe for the balance of the
shares offered to and not taken up by the public.
Objects.
(loliath Portland Cement Company, Limited, has Dcen formed for the purposes specified in the Memor-
andum of Association and in particular to purchase and take over as a “going concern” the under-
taking and the assets and liabilities of Tasmanian Cement Proprietary, Ltd., situated at Railton, North-
ern Tasmania.
The Company intends to increase considerably the output of the Cement Works at Railton by
installing a second unit of large capacity and of the most modern type, and by enlarging the existing
unit.
In the event of a satisfactory completion of investigations at present being carried out, the shale oil
leases referred to below will be developed, under the terms of an existing agreement with Mineral Oils
Extraction, Ltd., London.
The Assets to be Acquired.
The Company is purchasing from Tasmanian Cement Proprietary, Limited (hereinafter called the
vendor company), the existing cement works at R'ailton, Northern Tasmania, as a “going concern.” The
assets being acquired include:—
(a) The existing cement works, with all plant, machinery, stores, office furniture, and fittings, patents,
licenses, trade-marks, motor vehicles and stock-in-trade.
(h) Approximately 104 acres of freehold land at Railton, with the limestone deposits thereon.
to) Considerable areas of leasehold land at Lat obe, near Railton, bearing oil shale.
(d) All book and other debts due to the vendor company, and the full benefit of all pending
contracts and all cash in hand, and generally all property and rights to which the vendor
company is entitled.
Purchase Price.
The purchase price to be paid to the vendor company was arrived at by having an independent
valuation made. The valuation was £270,000, and the vendor company agreed to accept payment as
follows:
(a) £165,845 in cash.
(b) The undertaking by Goliath Portland Cem nt Company, Limited, to pay the liabilities of the
vendor company as at 30th September, 1927, such liabilities not to exceed £104,155.
The vendor company has agreed to invest the whole of the cash consideration, £165,845, in
Goliath Portland Cement Company, Limited, and is purchasing with this amount as shown previously
25,000 Preference Shares and 140,845 Ordinary Shares.
Valuation of Property.
The services of Mr. S. Haunstrup, of S. Haunstrup and Co. Proprietary, Limited, Civil
Engineers and Contractors, Melbourne and Sydney, were secured to give an independent valuation of
the property now being taken over by GOLIATH PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY, LIMITED.
Mr. Haunstrup valued the assets of Tasmanian Cement Proprietary, Ltd., including the Freehold,
Leases, Plant, Machinery, Stock on Hand, etc., at TWO HUNDRED AND SEVENTY THOUSAND
POUNDS STERLING (£270,000).
(A copy of Mr. Haunstrup’s valuation, dated December 14,. 1927, appears in the prospectus.)
Quality of Limestone, etc.
All the necessary raw materials to make first-class cement are available in close proximity to the
works. The limestone deposits have been estimated by the Government Geologist of Tasmania at be-
tween eight and ten million tons. The deposits are very easy to quarry, as the overburden is not
troublesome, and has to a considerable extent already been removed by the vendor company. The
vendor company has for some considerable time been manufacturing and selling between 450 and 500
tons of cement per week. Numerous letters and reports have been received from contractors,
engineers, etc., as to the excellent quality of this cement. For the information of investors, however,
the Directors decided to obtain a report from the Copenhagen Laboratory of Messrs. F. L. Smidth and
Company, Engineers, who have a world-wide reputation in all matters concerned with cement and
concrete constructions. This report indicates that the Company has been fortunate in securing cement-
making materials capable of economically turning out Portland cement of the very best quality.
The following extracts from Messrs. F. L. S nidth and Co.’s report are submitted herewith: —
“We duly received samples of the raw material:! sent to our laboratory.... One part of this
cement with three parts of British Standard sand gave the following figures for strength:
TENSILE STRENGTH. COMPRESSION STRENGTH.
After 2 days—
-2561b./sq. in. 22961b./sq. in.
After 7 days—■
4431b./sq. in. 47441b./sq. in.
After 28 days—
-6181b./sq. in. 85021b./sq. in.
“A test with neat cement gave after seven days 8121b./sq. in. tensile strength.”
“These figures compare favorably with the best English Portland cements. Furthermore, it may
be expected that cement produced from these raw materials on a commercial scale will show still
better figures, and it can, therefore, safely be said that these raw materials are highly suitable for
producing a Portland cement of the best quality.”
(Further extracts from the report appear in the Prospectus.)
Management.
Dorman, Long and Company, Limited, assumed the management of Tasmanian Cement Proprietary
Limited, in 1925, and under agreement will for five years continue to act in that capacity for
GOLIATH PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY, LIMITED. The value of management by this Companv
will be apparent.
Seven-year Agreement for Disposal of Output.
This most essential point has been dealt with in a manner which the Directors regard as eminently
satisfactory. For some time past the whole of the output of Tasmanian Cement Proprietary Limited
has been disposed of through Cement Distributors Proprietary, Limited, of Melbourne, who accept full
liability for all sales made. The quality of “GOLIATH” cement is such that it commands a ready sale,
and Cement Distributors Proprietary, Limited, having established an adequate selling organisation are
already favorably known and closely identified with the sale of “GOLIATH” products.
Having in mind the two most important factors of preserving the goodwill attached to the name
“GOLIATH,” and securing continuity, of distribution, the Directors have arranged a most satisfactory
agreement with Cement Distributors Proprietary Limited, covering the output of the new company for a
term of seven years. This agreement is referred to in the particulars subsequently appearing in this
prospectus, and is available for inspection at any time. Briefly, it provides for' the disposal of the
whole of the Cement Company’s output through Cement Distributors Proprietary Limited, upon short
terms as to payment at a price which shows a very satisfactory profit over and above the cost of
manufacture. Under the agreement Cement Distributors Proprietary, Limited, accepts full responsibility
for all payments for cement supplied, and Goliath Portland Cement Company, Limited, is relieved of
the difficulties and expense of setting up a selling organisation on the mainland, and of any troubles
in connection with the collection of payments.
Transport and Power.
Two very important considerations to a cement company are the cost of transport of the manu-
factured article to the markets and the cost of power.
As regards transport, sea freight is usually cheaper than rail freight, and “GOLIATH” cement can
be shipped direct from the port of Devonport, in Tasmania, to the main ports in Australia.
As regards power, Goliath Portland Cement Company, Limited, will have the great advantage of
using extremely cheap power, which is already available at the works under the Tasmanian Government’s
hydro-electric power scheme. As the existing contract made with the vendor company for ten years
provides for power to be supplied at the low charges of £6/10/- per horse-power per annum, for a 3000
horse-power block, it will readily be realised that there will be a considerable saving in the cost of pro-
duction.
Enlargement of Existing Plant.
Recently arrangements were made for Mr. Tonneson, of Messrs. F. L. Smidth and Company, of Copen-
hagen, one of the largest manufacturers of cement plants in the world, to proceed to the works in Tas-
mania, and submit an estimate and lay-out for a new unit, and for the enlargement and alteration of
the existing plant. As a result of Mr. Tonneson’s investigations an estimate has been received from
Messrs. F. L. Smidth and Company for the installation of a new unit of 65,000 tons capacity for the
sum of £161,162, and for enlarging and altering the present unit for the sum of £67,488.
While this new unit is being constructed the existing unit will continue as at present with an
annual production of over 20,000 tons. When the second unit of 65,000 tons output is in working order,
the existing unit will be enlarged and altered so as to bring the total production up to 110,000 tons
per annum. Messrs. F. L. Smidth and Company estimate that it will take approximately 18 months
for the whole work to be completed.
Estimated Cost of Production.
Mr. Tonneson made calculations of the cost of manufacturing cement with the new 65,000 ton unit!
and also of the cost with the new plant operating in conjunction with the old unit after being remodelled.
After allowing for depreciation, Mr. Tonneson calculated the cost of production with the new 65,000-
ton unit at £2 11s. lfd. per ton, and with the new unit working in conjunction with the present unit
as remodelled (when the output will be 110,000 tons per annum) at £2 7s. 103d. per ton.
At the present time the average net return per ton at the works for cement sold is £3 12s. lOld.
per ton, but for the purpose of the estimates set out below this return has been taken at the conser-
vative figure of £3 10s. per ton.
Capital Expenditure.
The following are estimates of the proposed capital outlay to purchase the existing works, to build
a complete second unit, with a capacity of 65,000 tons per annum, and to enlarge and alter the exist-
ing unit so as to increase total production to 110,000 tons per annum.
Purchase price of Tasmanian Cement Proprietary, Ltd., as a “going concern,”
being cash .. .’.£165,845
Liabilities taken over, including bank overdraft .. ., .. .. .. 104,155-
„ —£270,000
Aew cement unit, 65,000 tons of cement per annum capacity (as per estimate) .. .. 161,162
Enlarging and altering existing unit to increase total capacity to 110,000 tons per annum
(as per estimate) .. .. ... . . .. ,. ,, .. ,, 67,488
Underwriting, brokerage, legal and preliminary expenses .. .. .. .. .. 40,000
Working capital .. .. .. .. ,, .. ,, .. 11,350
This the Directors propose to finance as under:—
Tas. Cement Pty. Ltd. Offered to Public. Total.
Preference 25,000 155,000 180,000
Ordinary . .. 140,845 229,155 370,000
550,000
These estimates allow a working capital of £11,350, and this, with banking accommodation, should
be ample for the company’s requirements.
Estimate of Profits.
The following is the estimated position when
TO WORKING EXPENSES (includ-
ing depreciation) 110,000 tons
at £2 7s. per ton ..£263,312 10 0
„ OTHER EXPENSES (Manage-
ment charges, Directors’ Fees,
Legal Costs, Insurance Rates,
Taxes, and contingencies) .. 31,687 10 0
,, NET PROFIT carried down .. 90,000 0 0
total production is reached :—
BY SALES-—-
110,000 tons at £3 10s. per
ton .. .. ., ..£385,000 0 0
£385,000 0 0 £385,000 0 0
BY BALANCE, BEING NET PROFIT
BROUGHT DOWN and AVAIL-
ABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION . . £90,000 0 0
Estimated Annual Distribution of Profit.
8 per cent, on £180,000 Preference Share capital .. .. .. .. .. ,. £14,400
Balance available for dividend qn ordinary shares and reserves .. .. .. .. 75,600
£90,000
The above estimate of profits is based solely on the production of cement. Any
revenue which may subsequently be derived from the working of the Shale for oil
has not been taken into account.
On the foregoing estimates each £1 Preference Share will be backed by
£2/16/8 tangible assets, whilst the Preference dividend will be covered more than
six times by the annual profit, and the net yield on the ordinary share capital, after
allowing for depreciation, will amount to approximately 20 per cent.
Extraction of Shale Oil at Latrobe.
Reference has been made to the Company’s shale deposits at Latrobe, about 17 miles from Rail-
ton, with which it is connected by rail. These deposits have already been mined to some extent, and
the mine is so situated that working on a large scale at low cost is possible.
Descriptions of the Tasmanian shale oil deposits have been nublished at various times by the
Tasmanian Department of Mines. These publications have described the geological features in detail
and have emphasised the commercial aspects of mining the shale and extracting the oil. The possibility
of extracting oil on a commercial scale from the deposits at Latrobe so impressed the Directors of the
Vendor Company that, when in London recently, Mr. Ennis, of Dorman, Long and Company, Limited, on
behalf of the Vendor Company, entered into an agreement with Mineral Oils Extraction, Limited, whereby
the latter company was given the right to erect a Crozier Retort at its own expense on the, mine for
the purpose of testing the shale. It was further agreed that in the event of the test turning out favorably,
and the Crozier Retort being erected, the two companies should share equally in any benefits from
working the shale for oil, or if thought expedient from the sale of the mine to another company.
Mineral Oils Extraction, Limited, has already sent an expert to Tasmania, and he has inspected the
Company’s shale properties and its mine. He has also carried out extensive and careful-tests on the
shale to determine the oil yield, and has made a most favorable report to his principals. Recent cable
advice from Mineral Oils Extraction, Limited, indicates that it is hoped that the demonstration plant
will be erected and the testing completed within nine months. It is therefore considered that within
12 months the value of the shale should be definitely decided, free of any cost to Goliath Portland
Cement Company, Limited.
While the Directors do not wish to emphasise the oil prospects unduly, intending investors should
not overlook the fact that a favorable result of the demonstrations will lead to an enormous increase in
the value of the Company’s property. Thus, apart from the cement business, there is a speculative
value in the shares.
Points of Particular Interest to Investors.
(1) GOLIATH PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY, LIMITED, by purchasing Tasmanian Cement
Pty., Ltd., proposes to enlarge a “going concern,” producing and disposing of 400 to 500 tons of
first-class Portland Cement per week.
(2) The construction of a SECOND CEMENT UNIT in proximity to the existing unit and the
enlarging and alteration of the existing unit will increase the output to over 2100 tons per week
(actual estimate 110,000 tons per year).
(3) An agreement has been entered into for the disposal of the total output up to 110,000 tons
per annum at a satisfactory price.
(4) GOLIATH CEMENT is considered to be* equal to the best Portland Cement being produced
in the Commonwealth.
(5) GOLIATH PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY, LIMITED, will have the following advantages:
(a) High-grade limestone and other requisite raw materials.
(b) Coal at a reasonable price.
(c) Ample water supply.
(d) Cheap electric power.
(e) Railway communication from the factory site to a deep-water port.
(f) Shipping facilities to various mainland ports.
(g) Modern economic plant with latest labor-saving devices.
Copies of the full Prospectus and Form of Application can be obtained at the office of the Company
or from the Company’s Solicitors or Brokers, and at every Branch of the English, Scottish and Austra-
lian Bank and the National Bank of Australasia, Limited, in Australia and Tasmania
DATED this 31st day of July, 1928.
Railton, Tasmania.


STONEWALL"
SHOES FOR MEN
asdf
GOLF OR WALKING
SHOE.
B 1204 High-grade Tan
Calf. Full Crepe Rubber
Welted Soles and Heels, 4
sizes. Medium or wide fitting.
Post 1/-. Interstate 1/8.
Write Desk B /or Catalogue.
JACKSONS IS*
“stonewall:’ stores
Cnr Pitt 6 Goulburn. S>.* Sydney.
*such a reputation is not won overnight
rv
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d • . . ♦ 20 for l/6
"Major Draphin <& Co., London. Branch of The United
Kingdom Tobacco Co., Ltd,
©
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Boronia”: Anyone ever heard of a bush-
fire travelling twice, within 24 hours, over
the same ground? Some years ago a block
of extremely thick karri forest on the AVar-
ren River (W.A.) was ringbarked and given
no further attention. AVhen the giants
were thoroughly dead a fire came roaring
through the dense undergrowth, which had
thrived as the result of killing the timber,
and running up the dry, inviting trunks,
brought most of the huge, spreading tops
crashing to the ground within a few. hours.
The next day there was another inferno
that consumed the dense mass of timber that
lay around in all directions.
A SURE SIGN.
“You got rid of your new boarder pretty quickly.”
“Yes! He made love to me the second night he was here, so
1 knew he was broke.”
“ Atherton”: Amongst the Gulf tribes the
expectant mother is secreted by the old gins
in the quiet of a tree-shaded creek. A
couch is scraped out in the warm sand and
cushioned with heated leaves ; then the croon-
ing attendants group around the patient and
give experienced help. The mother is
warmed over a soothing smoke tire, and the
little stranger is washed and lathered with
an ointment made of powdered charcoal and
fat of the carpet-snake. A boy is proudly
received; a girl is a less welcome arrival.
If it’s a girl a twine of ’possum fur or
twisted human hair is twisted around the
first joint of her little finger with a view to
stopping the circulation of blood, eventually
causing the finger-joint to drop off. The
same object is more quickly attained by
bandaging the hand in paper-bark, leaving
the joint exposed. The joint is encircled
with honey and the hand thrust into an
ants’ nest. I have heard a mother make
the bush ring with her howls when baby
lias been operated on in this manner. The
custom is not universal.
* * x *
“C. Coral”: Some curiously addressed
envelopes find their way through Thursday
Island post office to and from Torres Strait
islanders, who are now making good use
of their acquired accomplishment of letter
writing. “To dear brother Sakawai, Tas-
day’ Islan,” finds an owner, but a letter
directed to “lam Ned” caused some
puzzling over until the native habit of
affirming “I am So-and-So” by way of
signature gave the key. A form of address
sometimes met with is: “This my letter to
Asban [husband! Jalag, boat Kestrel,” in-
dicating that the post office will find Jalag
working on a pearling lugger somewhere
down the coast. The newer generation is
now going in for prefixes, too, so that the
absent lover or husband addresses his letter
to “Miss Niceone, Torres Strait,” or “Mrs.
Cockroach, Mabuiag Island,” occasionally
varied by the name of the grass house in
which the addressee dwells. In these, cases,
the problem of elucidation is passed on to
the Government official or mission teacher.
x * * *
“Ilomfrey Beale”: The other day a cow
astonished the residents of Canowindra
(N.S.AY.) by walking across a railway bridge
150 yards long, taking each sleeper with
meticulous care, and stopping occasionally
to gaze nonchalantly at the swiftly-flowing
Belabula River 30-odd feet helow. The only
other instance I’ve known of cattle making
such a passage was a few years ago when a
half-looney bullock raced on to a railway
bridge on' the Sydney-Newcastle line before
an oncoming express, and after safely cross-
ing at top speed stopped in the centre of the
line to paw defiantly at the racing engine
before fleeing into the bush. Dogs, of course,
frequently make such crossings.
* * * *
“Yarri” : About 40 years ago a wandering
packhorse was discovered in the bush be-
tween Croydon and
Burkctown (Q.),
carrying a load of
rich ore in green-
hide bags. AA r liose
horse it was no one
knew; neither was
any auriferous
field known within
200 miles of the
place. A good while
afterwards the
skeleton of a pro-
spector was found
in the same neigh-
borhood, and nearly
£5OO worth of gold
lay alongside the
bones. That set
many prospectors
in search of the
hidden claim, and
spasmodically the
search still goes on.
No sign of a camp
was discovered,
and it is supposed
that the old pro-
spector, after cover-
ing his tracks, w r as
murdered by
blacks.
* x
“Rocky” : About
12 months ago my
Pom. was run over
by a Ford, and just
escaped with his
life. Since then
he has harbored a
grudge against ail
Fords, barking
furiously at every
one he meets, while
cars of other makes
pass unnoticed. At
first I thought he
identified his foes
by the noise of the
engine, but recently
he singled out a
stationary Ford and hurled torrents of
canine abuse at it.
* * * *
“Mundowie”: “Many a time when I’ve
been wantin’ meat on the track.” said Spad-
ger, “I’ve had it walk into me hands. ’Pos-
sums like damper, an’ when they comes
nosin’ after the tucker bag where I’m dossin’
I just grabs one by the tail. An’ I’ve caught
wallabies the same way. Once I was travel-
lin’ down the Barwon in a bad drought,
when the runs was bare an’ baked, an ’scores
of the poor beasts was starvin’ under trees.
One night I made a bed with kurrajong
leaves, an’ some time towards mornin’ I
was woke by a munchin’ an’ tuggin’ all
.STRANGE REVERSAL OF FORM.
“Parson do seem tumble shortwinded ridin’ bike, Silas?”
“Iss, John. Doan’t never seem show sign av it when ’e do get in pulpit, though."
round me. Sits up with a bit of a start,
an’ sees a circle of hungry wallabies eatin’
me bed. First green stuff they’d ’ad for
months. I made meat of one, bein’ a bit
hard up meself; then I shifted an’ let the
other poor devils ’ave the doss.”
x x * x
“Derf Mocrom” : Four of us were entering
a N.-Q’land creek noted for its wealth of
fish and also for mosquitoes. One of the
party, producing a green tomato, cut a
couple of thin slices and rubbed them over
the exposed parts of his body to keep the
mosquitoes away. The rest of us were scep-
tical, but eventually followed suit. The result
was an agreeable surprise—a good fishing
trip, with no mosquitoes bothering us. Any
other Abo. liar tried it?
* x * *
“Bad Australian”: Mrs. Mcßum had a
grove of pawpaw palms growing in the
back yard at the Canecutters’ Arms, and as
one of the trees, which happened to be a
male, was blocking the light to one of the
bedrooms, she instructed Jimmy Ah Shin,
the cook and general factotum, to cut it down.
But Jimmy, who was better versed in such
matters than his mistress, soon made the
position clear to her. “No feah!” he said.
“S’posem you killum loostah, no catchem
chicken. S’posem you choppem off this one
tlee, no catchem pawpaw! By cli, Missis,
no! Bettah you no cuttem him alia sem
loostah.”
* * * x
“Pigcat”: The emu has no idea of how
tc negotiate d fence. Some crane their long
necks over it and give a bit of a hop. That
ends with the emu lying on the other side,
with its legs twisted in the wires. Others
think they can sneak through between the
wires. All goes well till they’re about half-'
way through; then they suddenly take fright.
That ends in their legs being twisted in the
wires, and they die a slow and lingering
death. A couple of emus can do nearly as
much damage as a dingo if they’re in a play-
ful mood. They’ll spin through a mob of
ewes and lambs, knocking some and kicking
others, get out the other side, turn round and
whip back again and again. By the time
they have had enough the mob is scattered,
lambs have lost their mothers and there’s a
dickens of a mess.
xxx*
“M.G.S.”: Si Nabi glided silently along
the jungle-path, the durian she had come so
far afield for perched on her satiny black
head, her smiling lips clucking softly at
thought of the meal she was going tc share
with Amit, son of the bullock-driver. Sud-
denly, round a sharp turn in the track, she
came simultaneously on a forest glade and a
o f escape —the great animals were all around
her. Si Nabi stood bolt upright and as
steady as a rock pool, the durian still
balanced on her head. A bull elephant, the
biggest of the herd, slowly approached her,
(Continued on page 25.)
herd of wild elephants. There was no chance
swinging his trunk. He touched her face
and her feet and then he began cautiously
to fumble at her laju. Suddenly there was
a sharp ripping noise; and the jacket came
away, a showrnr of golden pins falling to the
ground. The little tight linen bodice with its
fringe of cheap Birmingham lace followed.
Si Nabi’s heaving bosom stood revealed.
Then the prehensile snout began methodi-
cally to unwind Si Nabi’s figured girdle,
and the sarong, with the beautiful design of
the rajahs chasing deer, rustled to Si Nabi’s
feet. Like a bronze statue down which per-
spiration mysteriously trickled, Si Nabi
stood. The other elephants crowded round,
and half a dozen trunks explored the intrica-
cies of her body with curious grunts. Sud-
denly the big bull trumpeted, and with one
accord the herd shuffled off. Suffused with
shame and terror, Si Nabi remained trans-
fixed long after the crashing of branches
ceased. Then she picked up the ruins of her
sarong and knotted them above her breast.
Retrieving the durian, which had rolled away
unharmed, she hastened on her way.
* * * *
“Kooragai”: Puddling for fish is a com-
mon practice in many parts of the bush
when rivers and creeks have become merely
a chain of shallow ponds. I have got many
a good haul of yellowbelly (golden perch),
particularly in the AVard and Bulloo rivers
(N.S.W.), by puddling small holes. This
was done by wading quickly to and fro.
AVhen the water got thick with mud the
fish rose to the surface, and were easily
thrown out by hand. Even the turtle objects
to mud. A party of musterers camped with
a mob of cattle at a waterhole on Strath-
more run (Q.) let the cattle into the hole to
drink. It was soon churned into “soup.”
Next morning, there was a great trek of
turtles towards the Burdekin River, about
two miles distant. Over 200 were counted
leaving the waterhole.
;J:
“Gustave”: “Clef” (B. 4/7/’2S) suggests
that if a white leaves out “mister” or
“missus” when addressing AVestralian abos.
they become indignapt. I have had to do
with abos. all over Westralia for the last
20 years, and this is the first I’ve heard of
it. Probably the abo. “Clef” refers to is
a half-caste, which would account for his
excellent English. In ninety out of a hun-
dred cases, the abo. speaks pidgin English,
the few exceptions being those who have
been educated at a missionary school. As
for offering an abo. a drink, this is an offence
which carries heavy punishment in West-
ralia.
A TALKATIVE COVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No matter what the subject is, ’e ’as ’is
piece to say ;
’E w’irls ’is arms like windmill sails when
’e gits under way.
There’s not a first-class feller born that ’e
ain’t often seen,
There’s not a bloomin’ place about where
this same cove ain’t been,
In every pub from Perth to Cairns ’e’s ’ad
a crimson drink;
Aw! lies flow outer ’im as fast as water
down a sink.
I reckon Nature made a miss when this ’ere
cove was young;
The clapper of a bell is what ’e wanted, not
a tongue.
For when you’ve dry-blown this bloke’s jaw,
I’m ’anged if you can see
One flamin’ grain of commonscnse in what
’e says, says ’e.
'E yaps about the ’ole wide world an' every-
thing that walks—
'E ain’t got not a thing to sag, an’ so ’e
talks an’ talks.
VICTORIA.
PATRICK T. FINDLAY.


*<SPv
m
■
1
More time in the Wool —
—Less time on the Bench
N every wool-growing district some sheds stand out
conspicuously from the rest in point of lower running
costs, longer runs, freedom from mechanical
troubles, quicker cut-outs. Investigate, and you will find
that all these sheds are equipped with Lister Shearing
Machines.
The Lister experts have been connected with shearing
machines since their first appearance 40 years ago.
Backed by the dependability and long life of Lister
construction, they have brought the Lister Shearing
Machine to that pitch of perfection where it actually
works, without need of adjustment or repairs, for a
longer time than would be thought possible by those who
have not used the Lister.
Then, when repairs are needed, the cleverness of the
Lister design allows for quicker handling and less expen-
sive replacements—a cheaper job altogether.
It will pay you in every way to instal the machine
that is “more time in the wool and less time on the repair
bench”—the
tsren
SH B
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINE
SEND TO YOUR STATE AGENT FOR FULL PARTICULARS.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Dangar, Gsdye & Co., Ltd.,
Young Street, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND:
Winchcombe, Carbon, Ltd.,
99 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Malloch Bros.,
50-54 William Street, Perth.
VICTORIA:
Mitchell & Co. Prop., Ltd.,
West Footscray, Victoria.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Clutterbuck Eros. (Adelaide), Ltd.,
61 63 Hindley Street, Adelaide.


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
QUALITY - SERVICE
VALUE
Men like to buy at Peapes’ be-
cause there they enjoy a selection
from the finest goods, chosen by
experts who concentrate solely on
men’s and boys’ clothing.
At Peapes’ there is always a great
variety, each article correct in
every detail and exceptional in
value.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
Cmtum’o %*4
The c&nfr>e> of
Qupons/ands
< Dis tin Puished
Social Life.
n ~
Brisbane
Magnificent Ballroom, Palm
Court, and Lounges at the
disposal of guests and their
friends at all times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single Bedrooms, with Bath-
rooms attached. Hot and cold running water and Electric
Fans in every Bedroom, together with every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
TELEGRAMS & CABLES -LENNONS , BRISBANE.
TELEPHONE CENT. 5780 (lO LINES).
THE CLIP on the ROAD
Consign it where its sale at full market
values is certain. Place it in the hands of
selling brokers who, season after season,
prove their ability as salesmen by consis-
tently securing highest possible results for
growers.
Send the wool to
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
LTD#
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
The firm’s popularity is solely due to their
success in doing well for clients.
“W.S.” : The Yankee claim (B. 27/0/’2B)
that the sheep-shearing championship of the
world was won by an American, Richard
Marquis, at Sydney in 1901, when he de-
feated Jack Howe by shearing one sheep in
45 seconds, Howe’s time being 75 seconds,
doesn’t seem to be a very sound one. In
1901 Jack Howe was proprietor of the
Barcoo Hotel in Blackall (O.), and weighed
about 15 stone, or about four stone over his
shearing weight. I was in Blackall at the
time and knew Howe well, but I never heard
of him shearing in Sydney. I doubt whether
in his then condition he could have shorn a
sheep in under five' minutes; although his
record at Alice Downs some years before
that was 323 sheep in nine hours.
* * * *
“Ananias Walton”: Someone has been
writing to the* papers about a fish recently
caught in N.-Q. waters. This is a specimen
of stingray that can fly above the surface
to a height of 40 feet and to a distance
of some hundreds ‘of yards. It has a head
like a dog’s, with formidable teeth, and when
hooked is liable to rise out of the water and
fly at the fisherman, barking savagely. Thank
Heaven, N.Q. distilleries have not lost their
punch.
* *
“Old Timer”: In reply to “Merodika”
(B. 11/7/’2B), the way to distinguish edible
mushrooms from poisonous is to sprinkle
lightly with salt as soon as gathered, and
leave for half an hour. The salt makes
yellow marks on poisonous ones and black
or dark purple marks on edible varieties.
BUSHED.
IRRTABLE ARTIST: “Well, my man, what is it?”
DAVE (puzzled): “Go on, I’ll be the mug—wot is it?”
“Wats Yaws”: The art of shaving with
broken glass doesn’t belong to the abos. and
Papuans alone as “Moe” and “Momokeni”
(B. 21/3/’2B) seem to think. The Rennell
Island (Sol. Is.) natives use it with equal
dexterity. The men shave their beards and
the women their eyebrows. While there I
was shaved in this fashion by a mary to see
if it was painless. It wasn’t. On Malaita
the native uses a hinged shell exactly like
the pippy found on the Australian beaches,
the edges of which are ground down and fit
together perfectly. When not chewing betel-
nut, smoking his pipe, or otherwise engaged,
he is seen leisurely plucking at his chin with
this instrument, getting ’em out with the
roots on.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: The abo. tribes who lived
on the banks of the big rivers
or on the shores of estuaries
were as much at home on the
water as ducks, and made splen-
did sailors. Captain John Scott
Lindsay, father of the late
David Lindsay, who was one of
the Encounter Bay (S.A.)
whalers in the ’fifties, gave them
unstinted praise. When news
of the discovery of gold in Vic-
toria reached S.A. his crew all
cleared out for the diggings, so
he shipped a crew of young
bucks of the Narinyerie tribe
from the near-by Murray mouth
In an old letter in my posses-
sion Lindsay says: “They soon
became fine seamen ; picked up
the handling of ropes, yards,
sails and steering remarkably
quickly. They would run up the
rigging like mortkeys. It was a
treat to see them set off in
pursuit of a whale. One of
them, called Charley Cooparong,
was as good a harpooner as any
man I have ever employed.”
And whaling was a great test
of seamanship and nerve.
“Sea Nomad” : Just west of Darnley Island
a black squall suddenly hit the lugger and
heeled her rail under. We hove to like a
wallowing log in a rain-whipped sea of ink,
and clung on by the skin of our teeth. Then
a crackling row like the static of a thousand
wireless sets gone mad broke out overhead.
Every stay on the lugger right to the bow-
sprit was a leaping mass of yellow'-blue flame,
which, as we watched, sprang into thousands
of tiny balloons of frantic life, intermingling
with and leaping over one another back-
wards and forwards along the stays. It was
a beautiful sight, but the piercing crackling
made the island boys’ eyes bulge like billiard
balls. The fireworks lasted five minutes, then
disappeared as the sun shone out in glory.
* * * *
“B-Gar”: The gougers of North Q’land
are a queer lot. Some are out for tin, others
for gold, and the remainder look either
for copper or for silver lead. Living isolated
lives, they dislike meeting strangers, and
although they’ll offer a visitor the usual
bush hospitality, it’s given with a hint that
he’d better be on his way. The only stores
these men need arc flour, tea and sugar, for a
rifle gets them their meat, though it may be
only a kangaroo. The lonely life has turned
most of them into a fixed mental groove, and
their one preoccupation day and night is
planning what they will do when they strike
it lucky. , •
* * * :is
“Moe”: The New Guinea native was a
smoker long before the white man brought
tobacco into the country. On the north-
eastern coast and in the central regions
the leaves of a small bush were generally
used, while further south the barks from
various sorts of trees took the place of
tobacco, and still do when the latter is not
available. In Dutch New Guinea the natives
smoke the partly-dried leaves of a plant
which in many respects closely resembles
the tobacco plant of America, and maybe is
a Pacific congener.
POLAR EXPLORATION.
“A good deal of ill-feeling is being shown among the various Arctic explorers and the parties sent
out to rescue them.”
“How dare you speak to me! I don’t know you from Adam.”
“Well, you should. I’m dressed differently, to start with.”
“Kooragai”: I low far do mullet, salmon
and other schools of fish travel along the
coast? It was thought that some travelled
right round the continent, but now it is
believed they go up and down with the cur-
rents, their itinerary being limited to a com-
paratively short stretch of littoral. Most
schools of fish remain within certain small
arq,as, even in rivers, just as colonies of
birds recognise boundaries. Fish which have
broken away with hooks have been caught
long afterwards at the same spot or there-
abouts. Murray cod wander many miles up
and down rivers; still they have tlieir life-
long towri and tlieir favorite big holes.
“Myalla” : “Homfrey Beale” (B. 11/7/’2B)
need not go so far from Sydney as Rankin’s
Springs or Albury to prove the friendliness
of a jackass. In Manly it is
a frequent occurrence for wild
kookas to call in for a snack
at my place, which is in the
heart of the Village. One morn-
ing I heard a jacko laughing
in a tree in the back garden. I
put out small pieces of raw
meat on a post, and these were
quickly gobbled up. Next day
Jack brought the wife along.
They visited my place frequently
afterwards, and one day in the
summer they arrived with a
young one and fed him.
* $ *
“Rag”: The biggest swag I’ve
ever encountered was on the
road from Trunkey to Wallera-
wang (N.S.W.). It was fully
sft. long by 2ft. Gin. across, and
beneath it was a Suffolk Punch
of a man, bearded like Methu-
selah and clad in dilly-bags and
billycans, beneath which could
be seen one Prinee-Alberted foot
at a time as lie strode briskly
along. The mate and I gave him
a cheer, but he wouldn't stop to talk. He
was in a hurry, he said.
“Bud-G”: There is to-day in a North
Queensland droving plant a horse with an
artificial ear. The late Joe Steiner, an Innis-
fail vet., bought the animal minus one ear
for 2s. 6d., and grafted an ear in the vacant
place. It is only on close investigation that
the difference in the ears can be noticed, and
to all outward appearances the prad is quite
sound. But it is stone deaf in the mended
organ.
i\i ❖ ❖ *
“Mulga Mick”: Has any member of the
Council met the quaint old character who
called’ himself “Dobson of Australia”? He
spent years among the abos. of the I llbara
district (North Westralia). I first met him
in 1906; he told me he had found a radium
mine, and reckoned he would make his for-
tune when the stuff was in more demand
than it was then. People used to laugh at
him but he was a wonderful buslunan, and
had no difficulty in living on the country in
which he was prospecting. He could eat
rock python, carpet-snake, goanna or any
sort of lizard. Every summer he could be
found on the sandy beach about Port Iled-
land in search of turtle eggs, which he ate
raw. Dobson had one peculiarity I never
saw in a human being before —chameleon
eyes. They seemed to change color, accord-
ing to the class of country he was in.
“Titun”: The Vic. Fisheries Department
has done something to stock streams with
native fish (B. 4/7/’2B). Young perch and
cod are taken in the Goulburn and liberated
in the 'Yarra and other southern streams.
Experiments are proceeding, too, with the
blackfisli, which makes a delicious dish, and
the lighting Qippsland perch. With the
blackfish the djifficulty is to secure the right
proportion, of sexes to fertilise the ova.
* ;» # * *
“Atherton”:: Nocturnal creatures mostly
have very large eyes. The seeing apparatus
of the owl looks like a couple of saucers.
A wild dog’s eyes appear to expand by night,
and the darker the night the larger and more
luminous do they become. Animals, other than
felines, which do most of their sightseeing
by day, do not show nearly the same eye
luminosity at night as those that forage
chiefly in darkness. The Northern Territory
bush by night is a lesson in undreamt-of life
to the quiet observer. A flicker-flash of
marble-blue eyes, green eyes, yellow eyes,
tiny eyes like a gleam of rubies, medium eyes
that for seconds gleam balefully in a liquid
light, eyes of swimming gold that glare
unwinkingly, and a strong sense of unseen
eyes; eyes staring from around an unseen
log, from the bushes, fi’om under a tuft of
grass, from a tree branch, from the air, from
everywhere—in more ways than one “the
night hath a thousand eyes.”
* * * *
“Boomerang”: The most wonderful exhi-
bition of boomerang-throwing I ever saw
was given by a young abo. in Central Queens-
land. He kept five ’rangs alive in the air
for as many minutes —two little practising
weapons intermingled with three hunting
ones. And before anyone could interfere,
the flash buck broke the forelegs of a sick
camp dog about 30 yards away. He con-
cluded by throwing four ’rangs with two
throws, using both hands, so that they re-
turned almost simultaneously.
* * * *
“Blacklip” : A positive cure for stone-fish
poison used by abos. is to cauterise the punc-
ture with any eucalyptus gum, dropping it
on hot. This kills the pain instantly, and
there is no tidal return. The same remedy
holds good for any fish posion.
DON’T TAKE THE COUNT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Your best bint’s been ill-treatin’ you
And all your heart is down,
And things are lookin’ murky blue
And some cove’s done you brown —
Still, smile and face the world, Dig,
As though you owned a purse;
For nothin’ yet has been so crook
But what it might be worse.
The roughest road ofts turns to smooth,
And you may hit the patch;
Just smile and see how things turn up
And when your turn comes —snatch !
So grin and face the world, Dig;
You’re not yet in the hearse.
Cripes ! Nothin’ yet lias been so crook
But what it might be worse !
VICTORIA.
W. TEARE-WATSON.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to band.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
Wants.
By ex-naval and mercantile marine seaman
(40), single, robust, position where liis ex-
perience would be useful, or any other job
where character and sobriety are essential.
Go anywhere. Kefs. —5715.
By clerk, position as station book-keeper
or clerk in New Guinea or Islands. Last
position 184 years; ex. refs.—s7o7.
By station manager (50), married, no
family, position as manager of sheep or
cattle station, Q’land preferred. Lifelong
experience in cattle, sheep, sub-artesian bores
and bore drains, engineer’s certificate. Good
refs. —5675.
By electrical and mechanical engineer.
A.M.1.E.E., A.M.I.E. (Aus.), 33, married,
resident Adelaide, knowledge merchandising,
executive position, commercial or technical,
any State, F.M.S. or Islands. Speaks Hin-
dustani and French; smattering of Spanish.
—5671.
By two lady helps, good plain cooks,
thoroughly experienced in housework, posi-
tions together, station home, N.S.W., share
all duties. Refs, exchanged. Bachelors pre-
ferred.—s 666.
Mechanic (56), single, sober, 30 years’
experience erecting and working sawmills in
M.L., N.S.W. and Q., desires position as
wood or iron worker, Sydney or N.S.W.
country town.—s7oo.
By two sisters, with capital, partner in
business, about end of year, profit-sharing
basis, town or country, N.S.W. Returned
soldier preferred. Refs, exchanged.—s69B.
Qualified accountant, Sydney, will audit
books, keep accounts and give advice on busi-
ness matters. Moderate fees. —5665.
Engineer (Diesel), experienced in tropics
and working of Chinese and native labor,
position anywhere, tropics preferred.—s 664.
By pastoralist, Goulburn Valley, Vic., 1600
to 1700 sheep on agistment; 160 acres
lucerne. Good country for fattening lambs
and old ewes.—s6sl.
Copy of textbook or technical magazine
giving'directions for making an air-gas gener-
ator for benzol fuel. —5723.
To sell building block in exclusive portion
of Coogee, Sydney, 60ft. frontage, glorious
view. Price £1175.-5727.
Whereabouts of Charles Marsh, formerly
of Hawthorn, Vic. —5719.
To buy from W.A. grower small quantity
of squarepod pea, serradella and giant spurry
seeds.—s64B.
To buy, in North Coast, N;S.W., bag of
Poa aquatica r00t5.—5704.
To buy one or two good modern books on
the Northern Territory of a similar nature
to Searcy’s “In Australian Tropics.’’—sss9.
To exchange 500 English, colonial and
foreign stamps for 1000 common Australian.
(To O. Burth, 4 North-terrace, Kent Town
Adelaide.)
Address of the Primary Producers’ Trad-
ing Agency or agents for powder to be used
in connection with “Caxo” sanitary patent.
—5669.
Words and music of song one line of
which is “Gold, gold, I love to see it glitter.”
(To D. Williams, 483 Collins-st., Melbourne.)
To sell collection 4300 stamps, different,
mounted for binding, etc. Also smaller
collection 2500, mounted, etc. What offers?
—5659.
Information Sought.
. (1) What is a fair rate of expense in run-
ning a general store? (2) What should he
rent limit for £5OOO, £lO,OOO and £20,000
businesses? (3) What should wage limit for
same he? (4) How much should he the
limit for advertising? —s29s.
Conditions vary, but the following figures
are for an average country store doing a
normal credit business: (1) 14 p.c. on turn-
over. (2) 1 p.c. on ditto. (3) 8 p.c. on
ditto. (4) Circumstances must govern this
entirely.
How can I make soap unthout using
caustic soda ? —5736.
To half a kerosene-tin of water add 41b.
of unsalted fat and lib. resin. Boil together
for four or five hours, stirring occasionally.
The mixture must be carefully watched, as
it boils over readily. When boiled enough
pour into another kerosene-tin (with the long
side cut out) and allow to stafid all night.
In the morning turn out and cut into bars.
Quantities given make about 251 b. of soap.
If the circumference of a circle is 25,000
miles and its diameter is increased hy 2ft.
what is the increase in the circumference? —
5684.
The rule in such cases is to multiply the
increase in diameter by “Pi” (3.1416), which
gives an addition of 6.2832 feet.
(1) What fees are charged for X-ray treat-
ment? (2) Have doctors undertaking X-ray
examinations to he qualified hy the Medical
Board as X-ray specialists? (3) Gan any
organ of the body he examined under the
ray singly? (4) Is X-ray treatment likely
to affect the patient's health or vigor? —s642.
(1) Varies according to what you want
done. (2) No. (3) Yes. (4) No effect
whatever, so far as photographic examina-
tion is concerned.
(1) If I take up shares in a company and
sell the shards at a profit, is this profit tax-
able? (2) Are bonus shares taxable? (3)
If I sell .shares at a profit and re-invest the
whole of the proceeds in some other stock,
is the profit taxable? (4) If I buy shares
at 20s. and sell them at 225. cum dividend
after the hooks have closed I have to refund
the dividend to the buyer. Do I show the
2s. as dividend or profitt (5) May losses
on shares sold he put against profits? (6)
If a company sells out to another co., the
shareholders receiving shares in the new co.
in exchange for their old holdings, and the
new holding is sold at a price above the
original cost of the old holding, is this profit
taxable? (7) I bought Bawra shares, Is.
paid, at 11s. 6 d. The co. subsequently paid
me Is. return of capital and 12s. Qd. liquid-
ation payment. I subsequently sold my
rights to further liquidation payment at
Is. Gd. per share. Is any of the profit made
taxable? (8) Should any of the above-men-
tioned profits be taxable, do I return them
under income from personal exertion or from
income from property? —s339.
(1) and (3) For State (N.S.W.) purposes
the profit is taxable if the shares are sold dur-
ing the financial year in which they were
purchased or if sold within the next two finan-
cial years. For Federal purposes if the shares
are bought with the intention of resale at
a profit, the profit is taxable. (2) Bonus
shares are not taxable for State purposes.
For Federal purposes the full particulars
are necessary to determine what portion of
any bonus share distribution is taxable.
Any bonus shares received must be included
as income from property. (4) Include the
dividend in the Federal return only. Only
your actual gain should be returned as profit.
(5) Yes. (6) The Taxation Department
would decide that on the facts. (7) Any
amount received in excess of the purchase
price is profit and taxable. (8) The profit is
taxable at property rate for State purposes,
and where taxable for Federal purposes at
personal exertion rate. Full particulars of
each transaction must be submitted.
Some years ago I purchased a business.
After paying I handed the agreement to the
vendor, who at the time neglected to pay
stamp duty. Now a claim is made on me for
stamps and a fine paid by the vendor. Gan
he recover? There was nothing in the agree-
ment requiring me to pay stamp duty. —s67o.
In the absence of a definite agreement to
the contrary the buyer is responsible for
stamp duty.
If _ the mother of an illegitimate child
marries when the child is six years old is the
father compelled to still support it? —5695.
Yes, if a boy until 14; if a girl until 16.
I was a partner in a butchery business for
four years, there being four of us in it. I
pulled out two and a half years ago, and did
not have a settlement all the time I was in
it. Gan I still claim my quarter-share of
the profits, and hoiv should I proceed? —s733.
You should demand a settlement, but the
delay probably has seriously prejudiced your
claim.
It is proposed to construct a septic-tank
at the local hospital. Opinion is divided on
the question of the effect of disinfectants on
the working of the tank. Gan you throw
light on the matter?— 4347.
Septic tanks have been installed at many
public and private hospitals, and in the
majority of cases, with reasonable care in
construction and maintenance, are reported
to be giving satisfactory service. The small
quantity of disinfectant discharged into the
drains of a well-conducted hospital is usually
so diluted with waste water and sewage
that by the time it reaches the tank no
trouble results. If, however, a large quan-
tity of disinfectant be discharged into the
drainage system it will reach the tank in
such a form as to render it ineffective. This
necessitates opening up the tank, cleaning
out the liquefying chamber and the re-start-
ing of the bacteriolytic process.
What is the cause of roup among poultry,
and how can it be cured? —s74o.
It is a contagious disease spread through
drinking vessels, etc., and caused by draughty
and damp quarters and overcrowding. Best
treatment is to isolate birds to be treated
and doctor individually with a mixture of
3oz. Milestone to 1 gallon water, touching
any diphtheric lesions which appear in the
throat or mouth with this solution. Use 1
cupful to 4 gallons of drinking water as a
germicide. Thoroughly clean up and disin-
fect roosting quarters.
I want to turn half an acre of spare land
in a Brisbane suburb into a poultry run.
(1) How many birds would it carry? (2)
What system of housing should I adopt?
(3) Best class of birds to purchase. (4)
What profit can be expected over food costs?
—5741.
(1) Approximately 400 layers. (2) They
would have to be housed intensively in a shed,
say, 80ft. x 20ft., divided into four sections,
each section to house 100 birds. On this
system the growing pullets are given free
range until about four months old, when
they are placed in the laying shed. Half the
layers to be replaced yearly by the purchase
of day-old chicks during August. (3) White
Leghorns give the best return when confined.
(4) About 10s. per bird with skilful manage-
ment.
Gan you give me details of a home-made
preparation for polishing a jar rah floor®—
5743.
Grate together loz. white wax, loz. brown
wax and loz soap. Mix with 1 pint
boiling water, and when quite cold add
4-pint of turpentine and petrol mixed (2
parts turpentine to 1 petrol). Stir thor-
oughly and pour into a tin to store. Before
polishing, wash the floor and allow it to
become perfectly dry.
11) What is an unregistered mortgage?
What advantage is there in taking out an
unregistered mortgage, and how is the matter
air a nged ? —5734.
What you refer to is probably an equit-
able mortgage created by a deposit of the
title-deeds relating to property with a
creditor as security for a loan. The avoid-
ance of the expenses connected with a formal
conveyance constitutes its principal advan-
tage.
(1 ) Is there any sale for birdseye chillies
in Q’land? (2) What is the best remedy for
cattle suffering from vegetable poisoning? —
. * i c. 9.
(1) Little or no demand. (2) Animals
affected should be kept apart from others.
Administer three times daily a mixture of
1 drachm of permanganate of potash, 14
drachm common salt and 1 pint water until
recovery takes place.
llow is prickly-pear jam made? —s742.
Put the pears into a sugar-bag and roll
gently underfoot, which will remove most of
the prickles. Peel the pears and cut in
halves lengthwise, then sprinkle with sugar
and let stand for 12 hours. Boil quickly
for half-hour, then add fib. sugar to each lb.
of fruit. Boil together for an hour. It
should jell quickly if a small quantity is
placed on a plate.
(1) How big a coop do I need for 50 one-
day-old chicks? (2) What is the best feed,
and how long do you keep them on it? (3)
What size brooder, and how many chicks
do you keep in it? (4) At what age do you
cull them? (5) What size pen do I need
for 20 fowls? (6) Do laying fowls need a
run? (7) What, method is used in feeding
them? (8) What size are the nests? (9)
What is the mixture of feed? (10) What is
the best book to buy on poultry for a be-
ginner, and the price? —sso9.
(1) Divide them up into two lots to go
with two hens. A suitable-sized coop for
one hen and chickens would be a box 2ft.
square and 2ft. 6in. high. A run attached
to the coop should be the width of the coop
by about 6ft. long and 2ft. high. (2), (7)
and (9) Leaflet posted. (3) A brooder
for 50 chickens to accommodate them until
they are six weeks old should be 4ft. long
by 2ft. wide. (4) Not before about six
months, except for faults such as deformities,
etc. _ (5) Nine feet long by 7ft. wide,
but if for semi-intensive method, twice the
length, half for scratching material and the
other half for roosting. (6) Yes, to get the
best results. (8) Petrol-tins with one side
cut out-and half-filled with clean grass, sand
or shell-grit make good nests. (itO) “Poul-
try Farming in New South Wales,” of which
particulars are given in leaflet posted.
How is bechc-de-mer prepared for the
Chinese market? —5513.
The animals are taken straight ashore,
split open with a knife and the viscera re-
moved. They are then placed in a pot of
water and boiled for periods up to 20 minutes,
the time varying with the size and the
species. When taken out of the boiling water
they should be hard and elastic, and should
dry quickly like a hard-boiled egg. They are
then placed in the sun till almost dry, and
afterwards smoked for about 24 hours. The
smoked beche-de-mer are finally spread out
in the sun until perfectly dry. Beche-dc-mer
must be kept dry at all times after treat-
ment, as they spoil very rapidly with the
least damp.
(1) What were “holey dollars”? (2) What
were they worth? —5620.
(1). Spanish dollars or “pieces of eight”
in which, by order of Governor Macquarie, a
small round hole was stamped, so as to pre-
vent _this currency going out of the colony.
(2) ss. The piece cut out, “the dump,” was
worth Is. 3d.
(1) What is the best method of curing
bacon in out-back tropical Australia? (2)
Best method of smoking pork? —s499.
(1) To every 201 b. fresh pork allow lib.
salt and add to it 41b. saltpetre and lib.
coarse brown sugar. Mix well, and rub into
the meat as soon as cut up. Take particu-
lar care. of the thick parts at the joints by
making incisions with a narrow-pointed knife
and rubbing mixture well in. Next day drain
off the brine which has formed, and keep
rubbing in the mixture daily for three weeks,
turning every day. Best done in a shallow
wooden tub or trough. Drain, dry and
smoke. (2) Hang over a smoky fire made
from clean bark or wood for 12 to 24 hours.
Can you supply r a brief list of books of gen-
eral interest written about the Australian
abo. ? —5629.
Spencer and Gillen’s “Native Tribes of
Central Australia,” “Northern Tribes of Cen-
tral Australia” and “Native Tribes of the
Northern Territory” ; W. E. Roth’s “Ethno-
logical Studies”; E. M. Curr’s “Australian
Race” ; J. Mathew’s “Eaglehawk and Crow” ;
Fison and Ilowitt’s- “Kamilaroi and Kur-
nai”; Ilowitt’s “Native Tribes of South-
east Australia” ; N. W. Thomas’s “Natives
of Australia”: W. Ramsay Smith’s “In
Southern Seas”; and Herbert Basedow’s
“The Australian Aboriginal.”
How can I repair galvanised-iron wash-
tubs with cement bottoms that are leaking
at the bottom? —s423.
Chip the inside surface of the bottom all
over, and top-dress with a half-inch coating
of 1 part cement to 14 part fine sand or
stone dust. Apply as stiff as possible, and
burnish with a steel tool.
Information Supplied.
5510. —To make a fire in the bush with-
out matches, concentrate the sun’s rays
through a well-convexed lens on to a tuft of
dry grass or frayed bark. The blacks made
their fires by friction, but it is difficult and
unnecessary for a white man to acquire the
knack. —“Bill R.”
Does Anybody Know?
How to clean thick slime off the back of
sea-shells ? —5710.
How to make a cement roller for rolling
lucerne seed? —5568.
How to make a cheap and effective freez-
ing mixture? —5662.
How to repair a roughcast wall of lath and
plaster that has cracked. —5661.
How to make sun-dried bricks from heavy
yellow-brown clay; class of mould to be
used, and whether sand and cinders would
improve finished article? —5678.
How to make a sundial?—s674.
Brief Answers.
G.P.W.: Can’t prescribe without diag-
nosis. Advise you to consult a doctor J.A.lt.:
From £1 to 255. per week. .. .S.C.A.: (1) Yes. (2)
Seven to eight pairs. (3) 4s. 9d. to ss. 6d. per
pair W.G.: A goalkeeper cannot roll the ball
out with her hand. She is allowed a little license
in stopping the ball, but she may not grasp it
nor propel it forward with her hand J.C.:
Hooking sticks is not allowed in women’s hockey.
P.H.: (1) Yes. (2) H. E. Calwell, 11 Collins-
street; Coates, 434 St. Kilda-road, Melb. (3) July
22, 1926. .. . E.G.: You give no evidence that her
health is being affected. Watch for any sign of a
chronic cough, on the appearance of which she
should immediately consult a doctor... .J.N.: (1)
. The phrase is a corruption of a line in Cray’s
“Elegy in a Country Churchyard” which reads “They
kept the noiseless tenor of their way.” (2)
“Poverty Point” is the nickname conferred on the
corner of Pitt and Park streets, Sydney, outside the
Criterion Hotel, where aertors, ‘unemployed and
otherwise, congregate to discuss the latest gossip of
the profession. In The Bulletin the “Poverty
Point” page is the meeting place of those of its
contributors who have something to say about the
theatre. .. .0.F.: (1) The ranks are identical in
both forces. (2) The head of the Royal Air Force
is Sir H. M. Trenchard; his title is Marshal
Mrs. W.: The Kew Garage, Melbourne, conducted
by Ethel M. Bage, is still a going concern....
W.N.M.C.: (1) The shoehorn has no antiquarian
value. (2) Holes in porcelain and earthenware are
usually made with a diamond drill; it can be done
with a steel one, if used skilfully... .D.M.G.: Any
interference with the cancellations on stamps is a
criminal offence. .. .G.C.: Bush Book Club, 161
Castlereagh-street, Sydney. .. .8.W.: Cedar or sugar-
pine is generally used in making ship models.
Finish is usually French polish or best carriage var-
nish. .. .A.G.: Recommend cedar, hoop-pine or M.L.
kauri.... T.H.: (1) Details for building a fuel
copper fire-place will be found in “Brickwork and
Masonry,” by Mitchell. (2) Use lime mortar....
E. : The book is fairly common and being but
one of a set is worth only a few shillings
C.R.S.: The old notes became valueless on the issue
of the new Reichsmark notes in 1925 J.M.S.:
A ship named the New Zealander was wrecked on
the M.L. coast on August 7, 1836.... J.R.S.: Write
to F. G. Pratten, 26 Jamieson-street; and A. W.
Freeman, Challis House—both of Sydney... .D.K.8.:
Too complicated to advise without consultation.
Better see a solicitor... .Iron: Remove all rust with
a wire brush and give two coats of good industrial
aluminium paint C.H.: No, but you can have
the question of the sufficiency of the existing. fence
submitted to arbitration. .. .R.R.M.: You can’t force
him to sign a p.n. Sue him in the Small Debts
Court.... H.: Not if safety is. important. There are
many risks. And if you wanted to sell, you probably
couldn’t... .Bis: You could do better... .H.8.M.:
No, it won’t help you to buy an existing house, but
it will help you to build a new one... .H.F.Y.:
Cayley’s pictures are worth about £5 each on an
average.... R.P.: The machines made by the Evans
Concinnum Co. should suit your purpose 8.J.8.:
Newspaper News and Advertising in Australia
will give you most of the information you require.
Most of the houses mentioned will supply lists on
request... .A.F.D.: Surrey forms the south-western
boundary of the County of London and the nearest
point is about eight miles from the heart of the
city. (2) Chatham is in Kent, about 35 miles from
London ; population 42,665... . J.W.M.: But how then
are you going to pay your foreign interest bill ?....
J.R.: “The Bulletin Reciter” (Is. Id. posted),
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Sydney. “The Collected Verse
of A. B. Paterson” (7s. 6d), and “The Poetical
Works of Henry Lawson” (three vols, 6s. per vol.),
Angus and Robertson, Sydney... .E.J.S.: “Manners
and Rules of Good Society” (4s. 6d.), and Cassell’s
“Book of Etiquette” (3s. 6d.), Angus and Robertson,
Sydney. ~ .F.W.H.: Unless you are experienced your
chances are very remote. Make direct application to
the various shipping companies... .C.K.: Communi-
cate with Bullivant’s (Aust.), Ltd., 331 Kent-street;
or J. R. Reid and Sons, 401 Kent-street —both of
Sydney.... H.N.: Not procurable in Sydney. W.A.
Agricultural Department may be able to help....
F. : There are two flat seedless persimmons grown,
the larger, Yemon, being considered the better. They
are propagated by the grafting of seedling plants
raised from seed-producing varieties... .W.H.M.G.:
Information is not available... .P.J.K.: (1) At
your age you are eligible, if otherwise suitable, for
enlistment with the R.A.A.F. If you were accepted
you would receive fair pay, uniform and accommo-
dation. For further information apply to the Secre-
tary, Air Board, Victoria Barracks, Melbourne. (2)
Very little would be gained by taking the course....
R.H.M.: Neville Howse was awarded the V.C. for
bravery in the action of Vredefort, July 24,
1900, during the Boer War... .P.M.: (1) Percy
Marks, 5 Hunter-street, Sydney. 02) Can’t give a
quotation without seeing the stones... .H.H.: (1)
For list of agricultural shows in Vic. see the Leader.
For N.S.W. any Friday issue of the D.T. Pictorial.
(2) Information not available, but population of town
and district ought to be a guide. (3) Write secretary
Pastoral and Agricultural Association in each town.
....Sherwyn: Ask the Secretary, War Service Homes
Commission, 35 Clarence-street, Sydney, for par-
ticulars and application forms... .P.A.: The company
is only in a very small way; don’t advise the risk.
.... D.A. J.: The ordinary method of treatment is to
try the passing of a catheter first. If this fails
to alleviate the trouble, an operation must be
undertaken... .W.ILW.: The information was sup-
plied by the Repatriation Department, Chalmers-
street, Sydney. Additional details con be secured
direct from them... .T.F.8.: The Commonwealth
Bank might be able to assist.... M. 8.: (1) Sydney.
(2) Journalist. (3) “The Man from Snowy River
and Other Verses” (1895), “Rio Grande’s Last Race
and Other Verses” (1902), “Saltbush Bill, J.P., and
Other Verses” (1917), “The Collected Verse of A.
B. Paterson” (1921). Numerous editions of the
first three volumes have- been published. (4) Most
of the criticism of his work is buried in newspaper
files. You might consult, however, Nettie Palmer’s
“Modern Australian Literature” and Zora Cross’s
“An Introduction to the Study of Australian Litera-
ture.” The Mitchell Library may be able to assist.
.V.D:: (1) No. (2) A debt to be satisfied, on
liquidation, before shareholders get anything, but
not demandable except in liquidation. (3) Very
chancy. (4) We expect it to fade out... .S.U.S.:
Rolland’s anti-war attitude made him unpopular in
France, and his post-war work was inferior to his
previous writings. The pendulum is now swinging
back in his favor. France has no authors whose
styles resemble the three English writers you men-
tion, but can boast a galaxy of critics, satirists and
philosophers who have interested themselves in social
reform. See Rene Lalon’s “Contemporary French
Literature”... .J.H.: George Russell (“.45”) took an
intellectual but not an active part in the Easter
Rebellion. He was a member of the Irish Conven-
tion called in 1917 and his “Thoughts for a Con-
vention” published in “Imaginations and Reveries”
(1921) defines his attitude.... (Many others mailed.)


Dunlop Popularity
Australian motorists to-day are keen buyers of
tyres. They look for dependability, comfort and
low running costs. Experience has proved that
the tyre that best meets their requirements is
Dunlop. The quality and construction of these
“Big Mileage” tyres enable them to better meet
the exacting demand for reliable and economical
tyre service hence the outstanding popularity
of Dunlop.
"'>. MS
* v
?1 ■ j Bv
v^NNNNVvX'sV
I : ' wtR V
$
. : «i
ii
' i
: ! ' S
<S §S!
1,
S> $S
I Z A
i s ss
■s
k-l i
m
§ i c»s!N
*
„««v\\w'''''''Y ,x '''''' v^ n '^ ss '' vvv
55SSSS
SSSMM
Mi
m
M>
Mi
m
"A\
"'M
\ >%
M
t>
1?
m
w
HI
zziv#-
Vs
M
0
WA
»N*>
iSMMj
ssM
«*■» ...‘-'.MS
W
z
'/,/a
V,
if
1 t
wm
//
SM
r A
siS*
■v
M'
//
x v
>■■»
""""""v s 4 '"' VNs >
sniM,v n i
i ! OVn .if
7/.
N*
xvs.vs.vnnxnnV'N
>\\
..• .»\\V\\W\VN'WN\WN\V\«\«v<. «\s x , '
KBS*
S#
I
iS
■l®
w
o>|^
w
k II
;
?> N ° &
J^XW 1
11l
MW
I 81 i
•A N
i m
ii
\\V' 1$
J|f
MSS*
kSSSN^-;;
/
/5
/-•V
<s /
y y
W/.
y
11
I.Zi
§ ,4!^S
■ /.> 5
yS / <V*\
VN\\\\\\W' " NV
¥
5000 Garages stock Dunlop !
DUNLOP
goes a “long way”
towards ensuring
the full benefits of
motoring. Fit them
_and you will ap-
preciate their surer
service—their unusual
economy
You play
Better Golf
□ cs»
OcrO
an
00
Boa
□4 0
000
®!s.tao
-when you play
DUNLOP
“ MAXFLI ”


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
sdf
Why be satisfied with less?
SHARE in the benefits that P. & C. Assurance brings ! When times
are hazardous the company keeps policies in force ; a definite
sum is set aside each year for loan purposes. P. &C. policies
are planned to meet the special needs of the man on the land—these
are the things that have resulted from the co-operative basis of the
P. &C. The further fact that the company is s linked with the most
influential co-operative bodies in the Commonwealth is yet another
factor in the stability of the company. When such advantages can
be obtained at no extra cost, why be satisfied with less ?
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS S' CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD
114 • ITO CASTLEREAGH ST. SYDNEY
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
m
A.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
FARMERS’ WOOL CLIPS.
“Woolaway”: The proper preparation of
wool for market is admitted to be of first
importance if the staple is to realise its
utmost value, and woolselling brokers and
other interested persons have for years been
impressing upon growers the need for care in
tins direction. Complaints, however, are
still rife, and, if anything, on the increase.
The strictures are mainly levelled against the
small grower who is largely unable to help
lnmself in the matter. When the wool
appraisement scheme was in operation the
remedy was simple though drastic, as all
badly classed, mixed and irregular lots were
ordered out to be reclassed before appraise-
ment. During the currency of the scheme the
Central Wool Committee directed the State
Committees to issue instructions to wool-
growers through their agents that the clips
must be marketed satisfactorily in order to
assist in the smooth working of the appraise-
ment machinery. The effect of those instruc-
tions or appeals upon the small growers, as
a body, has been practically nil. Not be-
cause they do not wish to do as advised, but
mainly because they do not know how; and
it is difficult to see how, individually, they
can help themselves.
What are the conditions? Take the aver-
age cocky’s clip from 300 to 500 sheep. His
flock is very often a mixed one and the wool
more or less a by-product of a wheat farm,
albeit of recent years of considerable financial
importance. How can lie, in total ignorance
of, and with a good deal of unbelief in, the
technicalities of the wool trade, be expected
to put up his wool in such a way as to meet
ordinary market requirements, not to speak
of classing it in accordance with the number
of types under which wool is described and
valued to-day? Sometimes this class of small
grower sells his wool locally to a dealer who
takes care to make a proper classification
and markets the wool in fairly good order.
When not sold locally these small lots come
on the market in a hotch-potch, just as they
were lumped together on the farm to earn (1)
the anathemas of the brokers on account of
the number of lots in a catalogue and (2)
the wholehearted approval of the dealer who
is in central markets and country alike.
It may be said that the remedy lies in
teaching the small grower how to class his
clip. This sounds easy, but woolclassing can-
not be learned in a day, and with the increase
in the total of small growers (more power
to them!) and the likelihood of their numbers
increasing, how is such instruction to be
provided? The various States do certainly
attempt something, but the efforts are more
in the direction of training woolclassers. This
does not meet fully the needs of the industry,
inasnrach as the trainees’ knowledge is sel-
dom if ever applied for the benefit of the
five- to ten-bale cocky.
The action taken by the appraisers under
the Wool Scheme, of ordering out certain lots
for reclassing, points the way. The time is
fast arriving when it will be necessary to
establish at the woolselling centres depots
where small growers’ clips, oddments, mixed
bales and bags of wool can be received and
properly classified before sale. Such a method
offers no practical difficulties, as witness the
fact that many people are occupied in just
such a business, which, for the most part,
consists in buying on the open market, or in
country districts, small badly-classed and
mixed lines of wool, taking them into store,
reclassing, and selling them again.
What individuals do for themselves as a
matter of business can certainly be done
under proper supervision for the benefit of
the man who grew the wool.
A move in this direction might in the
future eliminate the dealer, but it could work
nothing else than good to growers and brokers,
and should receive the hearty support of the
trade.
THE IDEAL WHEAT FARM.
“Jay Gee”: After some 20 years’ experi-
ence in the Riverina with a fair measure
of success I have come to some conclusions
about the ideal wheat farm and how it should
be managed. The area in these parts should
not be less than 700 acres, and for my ideal
I would have 900 acres. With this area the
proper rotation —crop, fallow and rest—may
be practised, and as a result the farm kept
comparatively clean of wild oats, weed
growths and wheat diseases. This rotation
system would allow of 290 acres being sown
each year, the, same area fallowed and a
further 290 ucres left out for a rest. Tho
remaining 30 acres would be kept as a horse
paddock.
Riant would consist of at least 12 horses
and whatever implements the individual
favors. I am not a tractor advocate; I can-
not see that for draw-bar work tractors have
proved a success apart from their labor-
saving. Still an engine of some kind is essen-
tial, so look for an efficient and inexpensive
’bus which will handle all the belt work and
be also useful for harrowing and other light
draw-bar jobs.
Fallowing would be done with a mould-
board plough to a depth of 4in. and would
in my district bo completed by mid-August.
Harrowing would follow immediately with
heavy diamond harrows. Subsequent work-
ings would be determined by frequency and
amount of rainfall. The preparation of a
good mulch and a perfect seed bed is the
object; particular attention should be paid
to the latter point in the final working.
Here I must stress the absolute necessity of
sheep; I would go so far as to say that in
many places and circumstances wheat cannot
be successfully grown without their aid.
Three hundred good-type come-back ewes
would be chosen, and they could be depended
upon to bring in a clear annual 30s. per
head. The money is not to be despised, but
the real object is the keeping down of weed
growths, etc., and the compaction of the fal-
low.
Seeding would commence in mid-April, a
combine (drill cultivator) being used, and
be completed by middle-May. A bushel of
seed and 901 b. super, per acre bring about the
best results in these parts. The varieties of
wheat would be left to the farmer. Of oats
30 acres would be sown each year, and this
would be stripped for grain, and not cut
for hay. Horses do much better on wheaten
chaff with a ration of oats added. A petrol-
tin of oats to six horses is a good ration.
As to harvesting, I would say only that
sufficient labor should be hired to ensure that
the wheat is carted to rail immediately it is
stripped, thus minimising the danger of loss
through fire and heavy rain.
LUCERNE.
“Bellambi” : Up to a few years back the
general impression prevailing among farmers
and graziers was that lucerne required rich
river flats. The plant will grow anywhere
except on bare rock or “spew” clay surfaces.
It grows to perfection on the black soils of
the Talbragar (N.S.W.) ; on the heavy red
diorite clays of the high wheat lands; and
a first-class stand of it is to be seen on raw
granite soils, huge granite rock outcrops be-
ing visible all over the particular lucerne
paddook I have in mind. Farmers in this
district (N.S.W. Central Tablelands) cut
in spring and summer and stack for the bad
time. After the end of March it is left to
grow till the frosts, when the ewes are
turned in to lamb. Ten sheep to the acre
is a fair thing. A little bush grass paddock
alongside is a necessary adjunct to a success-
ful lambing.
PACK YOUR SILAGE.
“The Welkin”: Stacking without pressure
means poor, sour silage, for the air circulat-
ing through the stack absorbs much of the
saccharine properties and dries the hay. Thus
the air should be excluded. The experiment
quoted by “Blowfly” (B. 4/7/’2B) is of im-
portance, and illustrates that close stacking
or packing is to be commended. The big
idea is to preserve the natural juices of the
grass, and to do this a slight degree of
fermentation should be induced. This has
the effect of rendering the grass fibres more
tender and sweet. Steam forms in hay, as
we know, and this should be got rid of be-
fore stacking or packing. It will be given
a good chance to escape if quantities are
stacked at a time; that is, allow the job a
breather at intervals. I have been advo-
cating the use of salt with silage all along.
It not only preserves, but adds to the nourish-
ment, and provides a necessary tonic.
Whether stacking, pitting or baling, don’t
forget that a few layers of straw, especially
when the hay harvest has been accompanied
by wet weather, will absorb much of the
steam. In conclusion, hay baling, though not
a new discovery, is, as “Blowfly” contends,
better than either pitting or stacking. This
needs stressing.
CROP-FAILURE INSURANCE.
“Valeria”: Somebody should get Sir John
Russell’s opinion of national insurance
against crop failures owing to climatic con-
ditions as applicable to Australia. Several
years ago I attended an agricultural con-
ference at Wagga, and a delegate trotted out
this subject. Joey Carruthers, who was boss-
ing the show, treated it as a huge joke. A
couple of years later I heard Sir John Rus-
sell mention the matter in an address to a
gathering at Rothamstead (Eng.). Further
inquiry from tho Research Station statist
brought the discovery that work on these
lines had been in progress for many years,
and that the scheme was looked upon as
practicable.
BARREN PATCHES.
“Theo” : A characteristic of some soils of
basaltic origin is the patchiness of their fer-
tility. A paddock which will grow maize or
lucerne over its greater part will have
patches that are more or less sterile, although
they are the same color as the fertile parts.
A bare portion may be 10 yards in diameter;
a few yards beyond the edge the soil may
be of more than average fertility. Super-
phosphate and the approved mixed fertilisers
have little effect, and it has to be drowned in
farmyard manure to make much improve-
ment. As the patches are perforce cultivated
with the rest, they involve a substantial
loss. Can anyone suggest a remedy?
SHEEP V. WHEAT.
“C.C.”: If “Bud G.” (B. 4/7/’2B) can’t
run a sheep to the acre on 500 acres of
good red soil, “even with 100 acres of
lucerne,” he ought to try goats. I haven’t
any good red soil, and my lucerne is mostly
a memory, having been grazed for nearly 20
years; but I can carry a sheep to the acre
comfortably, and fatten them. All the same,
I advocate sheep and wheat, not sheep v.
wheat —that is, so long as the Railway Com-
missioners are satisfied to carry my wheat
at a loss, and make it up on wool.
“Bellambi”: About half the land on this
farm is fair red wheat soil, the balance creek
flats and granite ridges. I run a big sheep
to the acre, and, in addition, am now lamb-
ing 720 ewes. Say I mark 500 lambs (a
low percentage for me) the place will be
carrying 1-J sheep to the acre. Lucerne on
the small creek flats is responsible. There
are a dozen farms around here (N.S.W. Cen-
tral Tablelands) carrying a sheep to the
acre, and raising lambs in addition, and in
each case lucerne on old wheat paddocks
does the trick.
THE COUNTRY WOOLBUYER.
“X. Pert” : Re “Geebee’s” grower who got
28Jd. for wool he had been offered 24d. for
on the ground in November, I think the
grower was offered a very fair price, con-
sidering he received only per lb. gross
over and above 24d. net on the ground. It
cost him more than Id. per lb. to sell at
auction, and his freight, brokerage, etc., were
fully Id. per lb., not to mention loss of
interest, etc., on money tied up for three
months in a broker’s store. From November,
when he refused 24d. on the ground, to Feb-
ruary, when he sold, he had a gradually rising
market —at the end, 10 to 15 per cent,
higher. It isn’t always like that. I have in
mind an instance which occurred here during
1924 season. Two brothers had about a 30-
bale clip each. A buyer offered one brother
45d. for his fleece on the ground. He accepted.
The buyer offered the second brother the
same price, but after consultation with, and
acting on the advice of, an adjoining grower,
he refused the 45d. offered —and accepted
24d. four or five months later at auction, a
loss of about £4OO. The adviser has never
been popular in that quarter since.
“L.H.H.” : There are two sheepowners in
N.S.W. with whom it would be risky to dis-
cuss country woolbuying. Being relations,
and neighbors, they have for years marketed
their clips together in the one lot. While
shearing in 1926 a buyer visited the shed
and offered them 39d. for the fleece. They
refused the offer and decided to market as
usual. When the wool was auctioned in
Sydney early last year the fleece brought 26d.
When the returns came to hand the com-
ments were mostly adjectives, but one of them
managed to remark: “Well, as that buyer
purchased over 200 bales round here, what
sort of a thud did he come?”
“Stumpy”: The districts in which buyers
are operating are those where the fine wools
are grown. These fine wools are grown only in
the cooler parts where owners are compelled
to shear late, the most popular time being
November. If this wool is sent to the open
market it is not sold till February and March
and sometimes later. The country buyer, on
the other hand, has most of his wool in Eng-
land or elsewhere before the end of the year,
and as there is so little fine wool in the
world he has the market then to himself, the
demand being greater than the supply.
That’s where he makes his money.
“Breed”: My neighbor had bought 1500
merino wethers, just on full-woolled, and the
clip showed a lot of dust and foreign matter.
A travelling dealer offered 12d. all round.
The cocky he'd give the wool away first,
lie got the whole clip scoured, and on the
greasy weight the whole lot averaged 27£d.
Allowing for all scouring charges, extra
packs and incidental charges, the cocky was
i n , pocket £l5O. Tho 15d. per head he re-
ceived over the country buyer’s idea of the
value more than paid for his shearing ex-
penses.
“Pick”: In November, 1925, a local
buyer offered the Bibbonluke (N.S.W.)
settlers all round for their wool, then
unshorn/ The offer was accepted by some
and declined by others. In December, when
the shearing was finished, many of the lots
went by the same train to Sydney. Early in
January, 1926, the cheques of the men who
hud sold were earning interest for them in
the bank. In April the other wool was sold
in the open market by Sydney firms, and in
somo cases realised average prices of only
24d. Will “Geebee” now still insist that the
grower always suffers a loss when dealing
with the country buyer?
RINGBARKING.
“Bosso” : Many years ago I tried the recipe
for poisoning timber quoted by “Paul C.”
(B. 4/7/’2B) and decided that it has only a
limited usefulness. For getting rid of a few
trees in a cultivation paddock, handy to the
homestead, where the job is under one’s per-
sonal supervision, it be all right, but
doing it on a large scale in paddocks where
one has to cart water long distances and
do the mixing and boiling of the arsenic and
soda in the open and take the risk of poison-
ous fumes, it is not such an easy and satis-
factory method as it looks on paper. It is
expensive, and not a job you can trust to
hired labor. I did it myself, and in spite
of handling the poison carefully I lost some
of my stock.during the process.
Nov ; is not the time for ringbarking, as
recommended by “P. 0.,” more especially if
his pjan of cutting deeply into the redwood
is followed. The result would be an extra-
strong growth of suckers sprouting from
both the stump and the ground, the latter
being the hardest to get rid of. The time
to ringbark is when the sap is well up the
tree, and the bark comes off easily. January,
February and March are good months if the
season is favorable, and the style of ringing
varies with the object desired. If you are
preparing a paddock for cultivation you will
be able to start burning off the timber
quicker by cutting well into the trees with
a double cut and taking a big chip out of
the sap wood.
But don’t adopt that method if you merely
want the paddock for grazing, as it will soon
be in a mess with fallen limbs. The quicker
a tree dies, the quicker it falls to pieces.
When the sap is active you can knock the
bark off with the back of the axe after put-
ting two cuts through the bark from eight
to 10 inches apart. The tree then dies
slowly, and toughens as it dies, so much so
that even the smallest branches will remain
a long time before falling and cluttering up
the ground like a tree killed by the “sap-
ping” process. There are exceptions in every
district. In mine one is the yellow box, or
“yellow jacket,” which should always be
sapped, for when a foot of bark is taken
off it has an obstinate habit of exuding beads
of sap that gradually join up and bridge the
barkless gap and the tree flourishes again.
One more tip: Never trust any man to
fulfil a “frilling” ringbarking contract.
ERADICATION OF BRACKEN.
“Agricola”: In Gippsland, where top-
dressing with bone-meal or basic-superphos-
phate ( i.e ., lime and super, mixed together)
has been liberal, a marked lessening of the
bracken pest has followed. Acid super, does
not suit average fern-infested land so well
as the neutral bone or the “basic.” The
growth of sweeter grass brings more stock
to crush and break the nuisances down; also
the improved soil is less acceptable to them.
So they are attacked front and rear and in
the flank if top-dressing is added to the sound
advice rc cutting given by “R.T.S.” (B.
27/6/’2B).
WOOL-CLASSING INSTRUCTION.
“A.C.” : Farmers are too busy all the year
round to lose a month to learn the rudi-
ments of wool-classing in the city. Why
should not the Department of Agricul-
ture enter into partnership with the country
agricultural and pastoral societies and
have night schools in the centres of popu-
lation where wool is grown? Both graz-
ing and farming areas are becoming smaller
as the years roll on : and every settler
runs sheep nowadays. If every sheep man
in a small way of business were able to do
his own classing as the wool came from the
sheep’s back, it would mean two things—
more cash for the clip and better flocks
through culling on the board. And on the
board is the very best place to raddle the
culls.
SHEEP IN ORCHARDS.
“Bosso” : A friend of mine had a luxuriant
growth of grass in his orchard at the be-


Double wear
This Abbey Cossack is made for
it with a stout sole of twice the
usual thickness, and an upper lined
throughout with soft leather.
Dust and grass seeds are kept
out by the flap which attaches the
tongue and serves as well to pad
the boot more comfortably.
It fits easily and closely at ankle
the upper is cut lower at back to
prevent all gapping. And, all that
tightness over the instep arch is
eliminated by the curving of the
boot to fit restfully there.
Supplied in black and tan. The
same high-grade sole leather is
used in all, but the higher-priced
tan model has an upper of speci-
ally tough and pliant calf.
ORDER BY POST
Ask also for the correct Abbey
Polish (6d.) per tin)., which quickly
gives a lasting gloss.
46/6 and
41/6 per pr.
BLACK - - - - 39/6 per pr.
TAN WILLOW
Forty-page colored catalogue post
free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St., Sydney
LB3
Cuticura Soap Best
For Skin And Hair
Because of its absolute purity,
delicate yet effective medication and
refreshing fragrance. Assisted by
Cuticura Ointment it overcomes a
tendency to disfiguring eruptions
in youth and promotes permanent
skin and hair health.
Soap ls.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is.and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co.,Sydney, N.S.W.”
UffiSF* Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
GIBEY
HAMS
WOULD
’ spoil
IT#
\
n* c "V e
- v f
■<<s%£' „%-«3 -vV e
V 1
t vr «&
' '4 fVN® »p\S
tif
r," (
THE
GREY
WAINUT
STAIN
REMOVES
PAY AS YOU GO BY CHEQUE—WHY?
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4. It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At This Bank You Are Allowed Interest
on Your Minimum Quarterly Balance.
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London.
SHI
i
i
B
i. /: $
THE ‘‘WINTON’
PERFECT
STOCK SADDLE.
An Improved High-grade Stock Saddle, designed for
increased comfort to the rider. It has combined flap
and skirt sewn direct on to the seat, thus giving a
narrower non-chafing grip • and the pads being set well
up along the rider’s thighs give the greatest security
for rough-riding. The materials and workmanship are
first-class throughout, and it is fitted with folded girth,
bevelled leathers and solid nickel stirrups.
FREIGHT PAID FOR CASH WITH
ORDER TO ANY N.S.W. RAILWAY
STATION.
WRITE FOR OUR BIG SADDLERY CATALOGUE.
“K’BURRA” Stockwhips
Guaranteed Kangaroo
Leather Throughout.
whips
Thongs.
12-plait ..
16-plait ..
20-plait ..
6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft.
.. 18/6 21/- 23/6 27/6
.. 21/6 24/6 27/6 31/6
.. 26/6 30/- 33/6 38/6
HANDLES TO MATCH: 16-plait, 17/-; 24-plait,
19/-; 32-plait, 22/-. Handles for 9ft. Thongs
are 1/6 extra for loading. Post Free for Cash.
WALTHER § STEVENSON, LTD.,
595 GEORGE ST,
SYDNEY.
The Man on the Land
ginning of winter, and a sheep owning neigh-
bor persuaded him to depasture a mob of
wethers thereon. It would make the plough-
ing easier, and manure the trees at no ex-
pense. But when the grass had been mown
very short, the industrious jumbucks took
on a ringbarking contract to occupy their
time, and did the job so thoroughly that a
lot of the trees have no further use for
manure. My friend viewed the disaster philo-
sophically, remarking that the trees would
probably be more profitable as firewood.
SHOULD WINKERS BE USED?
“Glarenza”: I’d go further than “Paul
C.” re winkers on horses, and have it de-
clared a punishable offence to make or use
the type which fit so closely to a horse’s
eyes that he cannot clearly see the road in
front or at his feet, and make bolters of
many a nervous animal. The only winkers
that should be used are the “Dolly Varden”
type, made with the eye-sliields projecting
well out, and so shaped that the horse can
see clearly below, ahead and to right angles
at each side hut not behind. Many horses
are better with tin; bridle, but others become
roguish or too watchful of the driver, and
require the Dolly Varden. But every horse
should be broken in to both winkers and
in all classes of work.
MILK. SECRETION.
“Jock”: “Te Ilipi” (B. 4/7/’2B) gives
details of an American experiment from
which he concludes that the size of a cow’s
udder is a good indication of the quantity of
milk she will give. Long experience in dairy-
ing in different parts of the Commonwealth
has taught me never to judge a cow by the
size of its udder. Two years ago I destroyed
a cow which I found with “lumpy jaw.” The
cow had been milked right up until the day
it was killed. Being interested in the pro-
blem of milk secretion, I milked the cow
half an hour after she was killed. The result
was I obtained about one-tenth the quantity
of milk usually obtained at milking time.
The cow was milked two hours after the
usual milking time. Apart from this. I fail
to sec how all the milk can be present in the
udder prior to milking. Milk, like water, is
practically incompressible; yet, from a Cow
having an udder volume of fcb. ft. (the capa-
city would be considerably less than this) I
have obtained Jcb. ft. of milk = 3J gals. The
udder was measured before and after milk-
ing. The udder after milking was two-thirds
of the volume it was before milking. Simi-
lar tests with other cows all gave like results.
The quantity of milk , obtained was always
greater than the possible udder capacity. The
cows tested were all in the first stage of the
lactation period. Therefore, I conclude milk
is secreted during milking.
PAPER MULCHING.
“Adrem”: This experiment was made at
Redlands Bay (Q.) on pineapples. The
crop was planted May, 1924; four double
rows, each 94 yards long, were covered with
Pabco thermogen mulch. In between these
four rows three double rows and one single
row 94 yards long were planted without
paper. The plants used were “snibs,” and
each of the eight rows had exactly the same
amount of fertiliser and the same kind. Here
is the result:—
Planted Planted
with Paper. without Paper.
Summer, 1926 .. 798 Pines No crop.
Winter, 1926 .. 810 „ 630 Pines
Summer, 1927 .. 480 „ 842 „
Winter, 1927 .. 864 „ 278 „
2952 1750
Note that those planted without paper did
not show a crop in summer, 1926.
With regard to the labor saving, one man
took six hours to weed one acre of double-
row smooth pines planted with paper every
six months, while the same man took 32
hours to Dutch-hoe nine-tenths of an acre
of five-year-old pines. The important results
shown were:—
(1) Greater yield and uniformity of crop per
acre.
(2) Marked saving in cost of farm labor.
(3) Plants are brought to maturity very quickly.
(4) Increased profits because of improved crop
quality and earlier season delivery.
WHAT CITRUS TO PLANT.
“Doodles”: “Nulla” (B. 11/7/’2B) places
navels first, as commanding top price. They
do not command top price; and if “Nulla”
will write to the Vic. Department of Agri-
culture for its “Tree Census of 1926” the
statistics there available will decide intend-
ing citrus-growers not to plant navels.
The best-paying proposition in citrus to-
day is Lord Howe Island, a new improved
Valencia type. It bears better than the
Valencia, and has superior keeping qualities,
both on the tree and in cool store. Valencia
comes next in order of merit; then Mediter-
ranean sweet, with navels after those.
Although it may not return as high a
price per case as the navel, Med. sweet,
with its consistent cropping characteristics,
produces a better average return per acre,
over a period of, say, five years.
Emperor mandarins and Marsh’s seedless
grape-fruit are two good propositions. But
the market for the latter fruit, although it
is increasing, is limited. Incidentally, Mr.
Clapp’s fruit-stalls and the extension of
tiie Pure Foods Act in application to syn-
thetic fruit juices are going to make the
despised lemon a good-paying proposition in
Victoria in the future.
An interesting sidelight on the citrus in-
dustry is the fact that only 5 per cent, of the
citrus trees sold in Victoria come into bear-
ing. Equally as important as the question
of “What to Plant” is “Where to Plant.” At
least 75 per cent, of our young citrus groves
are planted without regard to the two most
important factors in citrus growing—suit-
ability of soil and drainage. So before going
in for citrus on a commercial scale prove
the suitability of the position.
WOODINESS IN PASSION-FRUIT.
“Arjay” : Passion-fruit growers—and con-
sumers, too —are familiar with the thick-
skinned, hard, woody fruits which frequently
appear on the vines during the winter
months. These worthless fruits are produced
on vines which show certain definite foliage
abnormalities, mainly in the form of stunted,
curled and wrinkled leaves which are either
pale greenish yellow in color or mottled with
dark green and light green areas. Many
theories have been advanced as to the cause
of the disease, c.g., natural senile decay of
the vines, impoverishment of the soil or
frosts at the time of setting of the fruit.
Recent research has proved that the condi-
tion is the result of an infectious virus which
is present in the sap of diseased vines. The
virus is most deadly during the winter months
and diseased vines may partially recover
during the summer months.
Infection is spread on the hands of those
working in plantations which contain dis-
eased vines, and probably also by a few in-
sect carriers.
Signs of the disease can be recognised in
the foliage of the youngest seedlings, and
effective control of the disease depends on
the early recognition and removal of diseased
plants, particularly in young plantations.
Old neglected vines are a constant source
of infection, and should In* destroyed as soon
as they become unprofitable.
The passion-fruit industry is in a some-
what languishing condition, due mainly to the
effects of the woodiness and brown-spot dis-
eases, Intelligent action will now make
woodiness a disease of minor importance,
but brown spot has yet to be conquered.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“The Welkin”: Old horses, from 15 up-
wards, need long grass or hand-feeding, for
their nippers are too worn to bite off the
short grass. To run them on short-cropped
pasture—some farmers turn them in after
sheep have eaten the grass short —is to
starve them. '
“T.W.” : The best axe-handle that I have
ever fitted into a head was mad'> of common
pear-tree wood. Four were made from the
trunk by an out-back expert in Tas., and
when I left the Speck two of them, including
my own, which I left behind, were still
doing good duty after three tough years on
the job.
“Wire”: A “ball” has many advantages
over the horse drench, principally in econ-
omy in materials and time and in ease of
manipulation. Note that the capsule is
slightly tapered or wedge-shaped. It should
be inserted large end first. The muscular
contraction of the throat in swallowing forces
it down.
“XPT”: Lavender (B. 27/6/’2B) has
been grown and distilled at the Dookie
(Vic.) Agricultural College for a good many
years. Although cultivated chiefly for experi-
mental purposes, there is not the slightest
doubt that it could be grown commercially.
“N. 8.”: To prevent impaction in a cow.
molasses, with boiling water added—half
and half —mixed with the dry feed, is re-
commended.
“Sox”: Commenting on a flock of lambs
tar-marked on the rump, I was told by the
owner that he adopted this method of pre-
venting depredations by foxes. He assured
me that he had never lost a lamb thus tarred?
Knowing his country to be infested by
foxes, if his statement was true the ex-
pedient is well worth trying.
“Blowfly”: To keep weevils out of sheep-
skins, mix 51b. arsenic and 61b. soda in 10
gals, of water; boil slowly for about half
an hour, and when the mixture rises dilute
with twice the quantity of cold water. Apply
with a brush to the fleshy side as soon after
killing as possible.
“The Bat”: When putting any class of
sto,?k into a fresh paddock, keep riding
through them for a few days. Many will try
to get back, and will be found hanging in
the corners. Ride the fence and make sure
none have broken through. They will soon
settle down.
“Blowfly”: My lick for stock is made of
lcwt. of coarse salt, 101 b. slacked lime, 101 b.
bonemeal and 41b. flowers of sulphur. Mix
well in a trough, and keep protected from
the rain. It is a good plan to mix the lick
with molasses, just enough to hold it to-
gether.
“Titun”: In top-dressing pastures light
soils and hilly soils show better comparative
results (provided the rainfall is satisfactory)
than the heavier flats. Near Nirranda,
Warrnambool district, messmate country
that was considered below the average has
had pounds an acre put on to its value by
judicious top-dressing. The Gippsland hill
country responds wonderfully well, too.
“Bosso” : Here is my specific for flyblow.
Put a dessertspoonful of carbolic into 4-pint
of kerosene and swab it on and around the
“strike.” When lamb-marking some years
ago, when the fly first made its debut on
our run, I mixed the carbolic and kero,
solution with the contents of the tarpot.
That year a neighbor of mine told me that
90 p.c. of his marked lambs were badly fly-
blown. I mustered mine, and we went
through them, and found only about 10 p.c.
blown.
“Bosso”: If you have any respect for
your hands mend the handles of axes and
hayforks this w T ay. Get a half-inch strip
of greenliide; soak it in water overnight.
Tack the end well above the split with a
big-headed fin. clout nail. Wind it closely and
tightly around the handle well below the
fracture, and finish off with another clout
nail. When dry the Devil himself won’t
loosen its grip.
“Nota Bene”: The eggs, or “nits,” of the
botfly, attached to the hair along the under
jaw, neck, forearms and elsewhere, can be
destroyed by burning. Take a piece of rope
about a foot long, attach one end to a short
stick, and tease out about six or eight inches
of the other end. Moisten this with kerosene,
and light it; then swish the flame where the
nits are. Starve the horse for 10 or 12
hours, then give one quart of new milk as
a drink, followed by 1| drachm of bi-
sulphide of carbon as a ball (any chemist
will prepare this) ; a little later, one pint of
raw linseed oil.
“Pick”: A sharp * knife dragged length-
ways through the hairs will trim Dobbin’s
tail without pain to the wearer or blistered
fingers to the operator.
“Gundy”: When gates are being made
mortises and tenons should be well painted.
These are the weakest spots and most vul-
nerable to weather : the paint will assist,
too, in getting a close fit.


Spanning a Great Australian Enterprise
Regularly, vast undertakings are being
accomplished in Australia by Australians,
but little notice is taken of them by the
general public.
As an instance, the Governments of New
South Wales and Victoria have, for some
years, been building the Hume Reservoir
at the junction of the Murray and the
Mitta Mitta rivers. Here is a tremendous
work going steadily forward that must
stir the imaginations of big Australians
when they consider its vastness.
When completed, the Hume Reservoir will
be the second largest in the world with a
capacity of 2,000,000 acre-feet of water;
478,000 cubic yards of concrete and
400,000,000 cubic yards of earth will have
been deposited to build the mile-long dam.
The formation of this lake,'stretching back
50 miles along the Murray and 25 miles
along the Mitta Mitta, has necessitated the
building of a great bridge to take the place
of the two that will be submerged beneath
the waters. And it is to the Australian
engineering firm of Chas. Ruwolt Pty.,
Ltd., that the manufacture of the huge steel
spans and bearings has been entrusted.
Apart from the national pride that Aus-
tralians will feel in such a work being
undertaken in their own country, there
is the economic phase which cannot be
under-estimated. Of the total value of
the contract secured approximately 94%
will remain in Australia instead of going
to overseas manufacturers.
1200 tons of mild steel plates, bars and
sections made by the Broken Hill Pty.,
Ltd., are being utilised, providing employ-
ment for an army of miners and steel
workers. The manufacture of the actual
steel truss spans, of which there are nine
measuring 265 feet each, a total length of
2421 feet, will provide months of work
for the highly skilled artisans employed
by Chas. Ruwolt Pty., Ltd.
It is interesting to note that every span will
have to be erected temporarily at the Rich-
mond works in order to make certain that
every part fits into its allotted place per-
fectly when it is delivered on the job at
the Hume Reservoir.
When completed the Bethanga Bridge will
stand as one more monument to Austra-
lian manufacture, initiative and ability.
Manufacture and Delivery of Nine
Steel Truss Spans of 265 feet each,
complete with hearings, by
Chas. Ruwolt Pty. Ltd.
Engineers Richmond, Vic.
I
L.
L
H
/£
4.
-X
■
tsli
Hi
►s.
-~k£3»
i
8*
M9>!
4^
&
v V
4^-
m
m
'<*tr.
m
Hll
=J KT
SSjSi
V
mmm
&=


Bethanga Bridge
Hume Reservoir
Joint Construction by New South
Wales and Victoria under the
River Murray Water Acts 1915
1
1
Ok
tin
X
XX
&
x
7*r
X
%’S
X?
X
X
k
X
X
I
x
X
X
x
k
i
\
\X\
W
V
l!
X
$
rr
'0?
rM
I
x
w\
M
m
X
p
vMt
ffl
im
V\ ~0i)//
X
VX-
r *3
<±
4.
y
im
X:
KS
W
X
atim
j y
y;*~
<r»n
S*-
m
m
sss
?**£*-'
gX
v£S?°*
/X
W,
m
XJ
ffA
l//
ST
x
'//'
lit'
zrt A
sV
w-'t
sS-
at*-
//A"**
■tSa


20
for
1/6
ej
Oh
SBS
£.500
in Cash Prizes
State Expressettes” is a fascinating Competition with
handsome prizes for the winners. See daily papers for
full particulars of this interesting Competition. Closing
date, September 8.
Send your entries without delay.
SlslE OPRSSS
38
CIGARETTES
777
Ardath Tobacco Co., Ltd., London.
®s£
nee
T7pp e
N/a
!£**oo**.
20
for
1/6
SMOKE-OH!
Imitation is the flattest form of sincerity.
* *
“Some cows,” says a farm paper, “are
not to be trusted.” No —the cotes!
* *
After all, the goldfish is really only a
wealthy sardine.
* *
Newspaper heading: “£lOO,OOO a Year
tor Dam Work.” Fancy buying it at all!
“The Prince of Wales,” we read, “intends
to make more use of the aeroplane.” Well.
as long as he doesn’t go hunting in one
* *
It now takes less than five minutes for
a wireless message to come from London,
f lic messenger boy takes the other four
hours.
=:=
Wo learn tha,t, inspired by the service
anaesthetics have rendered him in his pro-
fession, a Sydney dentist lias invented one
designed for use by Royal Commissions in
getting a truth out.
TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE.
"No, my dear boy, I couldn’t marry a man without a
past. He is too certain to have one coming.”
A very meek pedestrian writes stating that
he didn t so much mind being just missed
by motorists every time he tried to cross
the street; what annoyed him was that they
made their horns toot a sound like “Tally-
ho!”
* *
What was the row down at the gunyah
last night, Jacky? You bin beatem Mary
again?”
“Yes’m, missus. By eripes, my bin mad!
Mary cutem tail off mine new pflanncl to
makem plurry dress.”
The fact that salaries paid to principals
in the A\ illiamson-Melba opera co. amount
to £2500 a week shows that some people can
still get gold for their notes.
“Speak the two words, dear,” he said
“That will send me into Heaven.”
But the maiden hung her head,
Never much to gushing given.
Then she murmured, sly and placid,
. Very softly, “Prussic acid.”
* $
Despite efforts to abolish drinking bars
from Melbourne football grounds, referees
still get their share of boohs.
Jackson: “Jones struck trouble the other
day.”
Johnson: “I thought he looked a bit
worried.”
Jackson: “Yes; his missus called on him
at the office and found him putting a new
ribbon on the typewriter.”
Johnson: “Well, that sounds innocent
enough.”
Jackson: “Oh, no doubt it was—but his
missrts made him sack her.”
Little frills and doo-das,
Little dabs of paint
Make our dear old gran’mas
Look like what they ain’t.
* *
Sydney Guardian heading: “49 Stitches
Inserted in Hospital.” It is getting pretty
rough when these razor gangs begin to slash
the public buildings.
*
Italy, according to an English correspon-
dent, is a country of silent strife. That,
anyway, is something our Noise Abatement
leagues haven’t succeeded in achieving yet.
It is difficult in most boarding-houses to
tell which is the bed and which the board.
* *
When a bank cashier goes away for a rest,
very often that is really what he is trying
to avoid,
Mo J.
A British motor, company
asserts that a motor-truck
which lias been specially de-
signed for Australian con-
ditions is too fast to be used
in England. We understand
that they are afraid it would
run over the edge before it
could be stopped.
“Ome”: I know now that
mine is the coolest milkman
in Sydney. When I went
out to pick up tiie jug the
other morning I noticed that
it had short, very short,
measure. Then I noticed a’
piece of paper under the
jug, and, picking it up, read:
“Dear Mr. Ome. Ran short
of water this morning, so
will you please add sufficient
to bring the milk up to the
usual level.”
❖ *
“Until recently,” writes a
Melbourne correspondent, “I
lived with my wife in one of
those jerry-built flats, and we
constantly feared that the
roof would fall in. However,
neither of us has this cause
for worry now—we fell out.”
According to the Sydney
Guardian an 84-year-ol'd
employee of the North Syd-
ney Council walks two miles
to work every day and is still
fit and strong. Several lead-
ing motorists are unable to
account for the phenomenon.
It took 66 yards of
material to clothe three
bridesmaids at a recent Syd-
ney wedding. We understand
that the usual allowance is
three yards for 66 girls.
The fact that Sydney people eat 4000
crayfish a week will, we are informed, be
duly reflected in the liquor poll on Septem-
ber 1.
❖ *
FAIRY TALE.
Once upon a time there was a street art
union ticket-seller who sold the last ticket.
The amount raised by subscription as a
personal tribute to Lord Lonsdale on the
fiftieth anniversary of his wedding has
reached £,100,000. And there are husbands
sour enough to hold that he hasn’t been very
well rewarded.
From a modern novel: “It was a perfect
morning, so the lovely young woman got
out of bed and began to undress for the day.”
The movie hero was brave, I know;
But now I come to review it,
The bravest man at the dreary show
Was one who sat right through it.
N-s.w. Doric.
*
Love cankers all.
* *
Not every woman is quite as bad as she
is painted.
NO COMPARISON.
SALVATION MARTHA: “Tell me art yer sorrers—I was
married once, too!”
BILL BRIGGS: “Aw, yairs! But you wuzn’t married to a
woman.”
The thistle is Scotland’s national bloom ;
the bagpipes her national bloomer.
From a Tasmanian paper:— -
About People.
PEOPLE ..N ..N ..N ..N gdoct
Yes, we feel like that about some of them,
too.
* *■
Melbourne Herald heading: “World
Quest for Snails.” It looks as if Mel-
bourne might at last lose its cable trams.
He had never been a riot; in fact, he had
received the bird more often than not, and
so he turned his face to the wall and died.
He heaved a sigh of relief as he dropped
Ins bag under Peter’s table and hoped for
the best.
St. _ Peter was sympathetic, and reached
for his “Forward Bookings.”
“Been having a hard time lately, eh?” he
asked.
The vaudevillain sighed.
“Been out of a shop for nearly two years,”
he said. “Been getting a night or two with
the pictures, but not enough to keep body
and soul together, so I’ve come to see w 7 hat
you’ve got' for me.”
Peter shook his head doubtfully.
“They all come to me in the finish,” he
remarked; and then his fingers came to a
halt in the middle of a column. “Percy the
Piffler, that you?”
“That’s me!” assented Percy.
St. Peter leaned back in his chair and
smiled.
“Cheer up, lad, your troubles are over.
Saw your act in Adelaide four years ago,
and booked you right away. The wickedest
thing I ever saw. You play Hell for an ex-
tended season. Don’t thank me, lad. Good
Luck.”
FROM DAD’S POINT OF VIEW.
And the night has been filled with nagging
Re the shortage in my pay —
Ah, to fold myself up in the bath-towel
And silently steal away!
ADD SOCIAL EVENTS.
Last Thursday, at the church of the parish,
was celebrated the wedding of Les, only son
of Mr. and Mrs. Moore Lickor, of Ivnuckle-
duster-lane, to Anne, fifteenth daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Quaitc Able, of the Murrum-
bidgee Snooker Parlor. The bride (who
was given away by a friend of the family,
m the unavoidable absence of her father,
who is wintering at Long Bay) was an elegant
figure in her gown of buttermuslin, over
which fell panels of fine hessian, bordered with
Wilton-pile carpet. Her veil, loaned by the
’groom’s mother, had been in the family for
years, and had served on the kitchen dresser
for the last ten. In place of the conventional
bouquet, the bride carried a length of garden
hose round her left arm. The, two brides-
maids. dressed alike in gowns of old (in fact,
decrepit) satin, carried bouquets of exquisite
paper flowers. A novel touch was given
to the ceremony as the bride went up the
aisle by her skirt falling off, revealing a
dainty undergarment of grey flannel, caught
on the hem and hips, and in irregular places,
by bold blanket stitching in
red.
During the signing of the
register, Miss Awlnoyse ren-
dered, very appropriately,
“Sympathy.” There was a
slight interruption towards
the end of this number,
caused by one. of the bride’s
sisters having to separate
two dogs which had decided
to settle an argument in the
aisle. On leaving, two tiny
’maids, carrying buckets,
scattered shell-grit in the
path of the happy couple.
The reception was kept up
very quietly at the bride’s
home, where the presents,
including the ’groom’s gift to
the bride (a ton truck for
use in his wood-and-coal busi-
ness), were displayed on the
vera n d a li. The bride’s
mother, charming in her
kimono and slippers, received
the guests in the kitchen,
but did not stay with them
long, as she lias a slight
weakness that often forces
her to lie down. An aunt,
who was found in her flat
a few doors away, acted as
hostess later in the evening.
Many toasts were drunk
(and many of the toasters
as well) during the hours
that followed, and much ad-
vice of a personal nature
was given by the father of
the ’groom, who said he
well remembered his own
wedding day, never having
had cause to forget it. A
great deal of amusement was
caused by a guest leaning over and helping
himself to a slice of pork Fritz off the
bride’s plate. The catering was as liberal
as could be wished. At six next morning, four
guests were still present, but were discovered
A CHEERFUL PROSPECT.
SHE (just engaged ): “I shall love, dear, to
share all your griefs and troubles.”
HE: “But, darling, I have none.”
SHE : “No, but I mean when we are
married.”
later to be the ambulance drivers who had
conveyed the others to various casualty
wards.
The honeymoon was to have been spent on
the heights of Surry Hills, but it is now
problematical when it will take place, as the
bridegroom has been missing for a week.
Ray Zob.
CAUSE ENOUGH.
With frightful epithets he madly strove
r „j S red banners of his wrath unfurled;
/ hen loosed his thunders like a thwarted
J ove
W/io blasts incontinent an erring world,
/ ill strong men shrank from him, aghast,
dismayed,
To hear denunciations without peer
In mortal knowledge. Then the cause one
prayed;
And, gasping, he replied; “Ely in me
beer!”
QUEENSLAND.
MACESS.


5*
m/j
A
Wj
wmm
ir.
m
*• m
AM
l
MCI
>
Si-1
y
&r
m
'Ss
\
rv
{77?
7A
Z
I
\\V
K
Oo ei(T(^iORF
The Commercial
"/CERTAINLY! Happy to make a fourth.”
"Good! And how have you found things
this trip?”
"Splendid! Everyone glad to see me. It’s worth
while representing the world’s most popular
spirit. Ido know that my firm will deliver qual-
ity that is regularly, consistently uniform.”
"We know it too, old man. Our friends say we
must be subsidised —we’re such sticklers for
Johnnie Walker. But it’s merely that we know
what’s what and play safe.”
JOHNNIE
WALKER
Born 1820~
Still going Strong
Johnnie "Walker
busy meeting old
(Australianjriends
... ,pTS
The more a man mixes
his company, the more
keenly does he appreci-
ate the consistent and
mature friendliness of
"Johnnie Walker.”
OF
PROHIBITION
BEWARE—
PUT YOUR
X
IN THE BOTTOM
SQUARE.
JOHN WALKER 8C SONS LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, London and Kilmarnock


FAME!!
QN merit alone I was selected to supply the
White Trousers for the visiting West Indies
Cricket Team in 1923. In 1926 the Australians
were wearing clothes made by me; also the
New Zealanders in 1927. The West Indian
team playing in Britain this year are wearing
kit exclusively supplied by me.
These celebrated teams are naturally fastidi-
ous over the cut and quality of their clothes.
Are you?
I have been In business now for 25 years and
my Australian clientele is growing rapidly, as
are the number of repeat orders I receive.
The cloth I use is made by the most reputable
manufacturers from the finest Australian Tops.
The cutters I employ are “live” men with
wide experience of British and Colonial tailor-
ing, and the clothes they make are guaranteed
to give satisfaction.
My prices are based on cash payments only,
Lounge Suits, for instance, costing from 7
to 10 guineas.
w. G. JENNINGS,
119 Newgate Street, London, E.C.I.
IIQUEIIR
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean , Soft and Mellow
Shipped by
WM. GRANT & SONS. LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm of Scotch Whisky DLtillers.
MAN NEWS
“WILD WEST”
A Qreat Big W ide Leaf Hat
to Wear between Sunrise
and Sunset.
Pure Fur Felt; leaf '2f\ /
3*4ins. wide will
not sag; High Crown, P ost P r «.
will stand all weathers.
Mail to Desk “5.8.” State Size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LTD.
In 2geen Street, Brisbane.
Poverty
Point
“W.”: The wise showman steps cannily
on the West Coast of the South Island
(M.L.). By repute the coalminers are so
Red they sweat blood when you mention
his Maj., and so it is the habit of visiting
shows to forget the National Anthem. Last
year a semi-professional musical-comedy com-
bination showed in Blackball, and, by an
unpardonable oversight, the boss of the band,
who was a stranger to the Coast, had not
been warned of the danger. The curtain
came down, and the company were just trail-
ing off to the dressing-room when they were
horrified to hear the opening bars of the
anthem. Blissfully unconscious of the ter-
rible risk, the band played on. They had
reached the “send him victorious” before the
miners recovei’ed from the surprise—and
then they joined in and sang as men will
who hear again the loved songs of their child-
hood !
“MANON LESCAUT,” AT SYDNEY
HER MAJESTY'S.
Chevalier Des Grieux (Angelo Minghetti )
appeals to the ship’s captain to allow
him to accompany Manon to exile.
“Clef”: One of the most persistent and
erroneous of musical legends moves around
the composer Donizetti, whose “Lucia di
Lammermoor” and “Daughter of the Regi-
ment” figure in the current Williamson-
Melba grand-opera repertoire. It is said
that he was really a Scotchman named
Donald Izett, who altered his name so that
lie might take advantage of the wave of popu-
larity upon which Italian opera composers
were sailing at the time. Probably the fact
that he chose Scott’s most tragic novel as
the basis for his most successful opera has
something to do with the fairy-tale. Actually
he was born in Bergamo, Italy, and died
there. His Christian name was Gaetano, and
he studied under Italian teachers. His model
was Rossini, whose style he very successfully
copied. There isn’t a trace of the Scottish
musical idiom in “Lucia” or any other of his
works. Other Continental composers to find
themes in English literature include Gounod
and Bellini, who found "Romeo and Juliet
a good operatic vehicle, and Schubert wrote
some of his finest lyrics to libretti by the
Bard.
“L. de R.” : It is typical of Percy Grain-
ger that he proposes to do what few virtuosi
would care to tackle —tour Iceland. Grain-
ger’s athletic interpretations of the classics
are as much as anything the natural expres-
sion of his physical toughness. He was one
of the few concert performers I have met in
Melbourne who didn’t stamp and rage for
half an hour in a frantic endeavor to get
their fingers warm before going on. In an
early tour in Gippsland he insisted on walk-
ing between the towns, and on one occasion
ran behind the prop, cart for five miles.
"Lamia”: Recent mention of waits for
grand-opera seats reminds one that when
Melba’s company occupied Sydney Her
Majesty’s before the war I lined up at 2 p.m.
to make sure of a gallery seat. A camp-
stool and a packet of sandwiches formed part
of the outfit. The opera was “La Boli&ine,”
starring Melba and John McCormack. The
doors opened at 6 p.m., and the gallery was
packed at 6.15. An addition to the furniture
of the upper circle was a piano, provided by
the management for the entertainment of the
gods, and while we consumed sandwiches and
lemonade an excellent voluntary concert was
put on. The programme was varied —piano,
violin, elocution, solos and some community
singing. One of the organisers was the
late Hugh McMenamin, and his friend Alfred
Coffey was responsible for the star turn.
Easel, blackboard and chalks arrived from
the studio in Titt-street, and the artist de-
lighted the gallery with clever lightning
sketches. No one noticed the two hours’
wait for the curtain that night.
“A.G.M.” (Paris) : Near the Opera the
other day I saw Annette Ivellermann, care-
free, pretty and elegant, just returned from
Germany and making her first visit to Paris
in a dozen years. She will make a long
stay in France; one of her immediate plans
is to establish a school of physical culture
at Deauville, where the smart set congregate.
She had great success in the same field in
the U.S.A.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : There is al-
most panic in the theatre world owing to the
succession of failures at West End houses.
Runs of from four to 14 days have become
distressingly frequent. There are two con-
crete facts to be faced —the theatre is no
longer the main evening recreation of Lon-
don. and the rents and general costs of
production are so high that managers can-
not keep shows on long enough to truly test
the possibilities of public support. Dancing,
the cinema, dog-racing and the various out-
door amusements made possible by the "Sum-
mer-time” regulations are leaving the stage
with only one leg to stand on, and lately
that leg has been mainly supported by a
series of very poor plays. “The Return of
the Soldier,” John Van Druten’s fine drama-
tisation of Rebecca West’s novel, is the one
recent striking exception. Its production at
the Playhouse on May 12 was an emphatic
success, and the. acting of Mary Clare and
Leon Quartermaine aroused enthusiasm in
every part of the house.
“P.IL”: “O Kay” is not O.K. in his par.
about Australian movie actress Dorothy
Cummings (B. 11/7/’2B). It was Jacqueline
Logan who played Mary Magdalene in “King
of Kings”; Dorothy gave the sympathetically
human portrayal of Mary the Mother.
“Adelaide”: Charles Schilsky, resigning
his violin-teachersliip at Adelaide University
Conservatorium —where he succeeded Gerald
Walenn five years ago—says that he does
so with regret, and only for reasons of
health. His parting word is concentrate: —
In musical talent, Australians are among the most
gifted people in the world. They have also a real
desire for what is best in training. What
they lack is a set purpose. They possess an
extraordinary facility, and for that very reason
are apt to lack power of sustained effort. Of course
there are many exceptions. In America I found
any amount of energy but very little talent, and here
I find any amount of talent and (in music) very
little energy.
“Hamfat”: Ellen Terry, who was a little
over SO when she passed on the other day,
started her stage career as an eight-year-old,
playing the child Mamillus in “A Winter’s
Tale.” Puck, Prince Arthur (in “King
John”). Fleance. (in “Macbeth”) and Karl
(in “Faust and Marguerito”) helped to
establish her reputation as a child actress;
but at 15 she was Hero in “Much Ado
About Nothing,” and was also Desdemona to
the Othello of Walter Montgomery. Her
father, Benjamin Terry (whose dad, Daniel
Terry,’was also a provincial actor-manager),
ran companies in the provinces with his
wife, Sarah Ballard. Ellen, who had been
62 years on the stage when she put in a
season at the Coliseum as Portia in the trial
scene from “The Merchant of Venice” in
1918. ventured into matrimony when she was
merely 16 with the artist G. F. Watts, but
she was back on the stage in two years.
There were subsequent official alliances with
ex-cavalry officer Charles Kelly and James
Carew ; the Craig episode followed two years
after her sundering from the elderly Watts,
with whom she was never happy. There
were two children, and her grandchildren,
Robin and Rosemary Craig, are on the Eng-
lish stage. Ellen Terry’s association with
Henry Irving, the alliance which fixed the
reputation of both of them, began in 1878,
and with a few breaks lasted until Irving
retired in 1902. Her appearances during her
visit to Australia in 1914 were mainly
limited to Shakspearean lectures.
“L.H.P.”: Schiller’s tragedy “The Rob-
bers,” which Alfred Gordon promises to pro-
duce at the Newtown Majestic, was intro-
duced to Sydney by James Anderson, the
London star, whose .managerial career at
Drury-lane (1849-1851) at reduced prices
was a wash-out, though it included produc-
tions of “The Robbers,” “Ingomar” and
“Azael,” the last superbly mounted. Anderson
went out, a ruined man, in the summer of
1851. He was immediately followed by an
American circus that cleared thousands.
“Bi”: Hollywood is still drawing them in
from everywhere. Australian actor O. I*.
Heggie, for years a popular star on Broad-
way, has just finished the part of Sir William
Gower in a movie production of Pinero’s
“Trelawney of the Wells,” rechristened “The
Actress.” The actress Rose Trelawney is
played by Canadian Norma Shearer, and
the younger Gower by Ralph Forbes, a young
English actor remarkably like Teddy Wind-
sor.
“Pianissimo”: I have noticed that opera
tenors are usually poor actors, their acting
being based upon the presumption that only
violent movement and rapid gesticulation
can save them. The baritones are much
better and the bassos better still. Is it be-
cause the deeper voices fin'd singing easier
Frank Clewlow, the new producer for
Melbourne Repertory Society.
and are therefore able to realise what else
they are doing, whereas the pleading tenor is
so concerned with that high A that his limbs
run wild?
“Mercedes” : In the picture “The King of
Kings” the producers struck a thoroughly
false note in getting Judas up as a matinee
idol, clean-shaved. There is no authority,
scriptural or otherwise, that represents him
as clean-shaven. Some of the sub-titles
were borrowed from Edgar Saltus’s book
“Mary Magdalen”; had the producers read
further they would have found Judas
described in this very volume as a handsome
man with “beard full, unmarred at the
corners.” But, of course, history and every-
thing else has to give way when trashy
sentiment demands that male lovers must
look like parlor-sheiks.
“Royelia”: Future film production pro-
mised by Hollywood should put the censor
among the unemployed. At a recent con-
ference of producers there resolutions were
made that in future no peppery books or
plays will be bougJit. “no titles will contain
wicked or offensive lines.” “no scenes depict-
ing the drug traffic will be screened,” and
“no picture shall give a glimpse of a dimpled
lady stepping from her bath or cavorting
around in two beads and a smile.” We may
now expect Cecil B. de Mille to screen
stories from the Sunday at Home.
“Yarra Ben”: The sorry record of new
plays in London (B. 18/7/’2B) probably
accounts for the few productions of English
pieces on Australian stages of late. At time
of writing, Melbourne theatres are showing
five plays of American origin, one British
and one Australian. If recent London offer-
ings were w T orse than the Yankee pieces now
holding the boards, then indeed they were a
bad lot.
“MANON LESCAUT,” AT SYDNEY
HER MAJESTY’S.
The Treasurer-General (Fernando Autori)
becomes annoyed when Manon turns
him down.
“The Ghost”: It was during a perform-
ance of “The Lights of London” in a Waik-
ato (M.L.) town that Fred Francis made
his great death-defying exit. He was the
hero, of course, and, tied to the newel-post,
he struggled vainly while the flames crept
nearer and nearer to the barrel of gun-
powder off L. Just in time, the heroine, who
had been lying unconscious at his feet (owing
to the villain “ha-ha-ing” too close to her
ear), recovered sufficiently to undo his cruel
bonds, and, with a noble gesture, Fred
gathered her into his manly arms and strode
off R, pausing at R2E to mention what
would happen to the villain in the next act.
Explosion and curtain. I, with the aid of
a sawn-off shotgun and a tin-bucket, was the
explosion L. On this particular occasion
Fred mistook his exit, and came off L. Be-
ing in the habit of merely listening for his
exit speech before wrecking the house, I
did not expect him, and when, at the moment
of pulling the trigger, I saw his heroic form
right over me, fearful of damaging the great
actor I lowered the shotgun—and the tin-
bucket careered gaily across the stage and
fell into the orchestra well. Fred said things
which I remember to this day.
“Tiki”: Timaru (M.L.) had the biggest
theatrical invasion in its history lately. A
J.O.W. musical comedy 00. was moving
in and another was moving out, and the
town had 212 employees of the Firm to
goggle its eyes at in the one day.
“Jacques”: Stuart F. Doyle stated the
other day that to get into Australia’s 1250
picture-theatres (representing £25,000,000
capital, and employing over 20,000 hands)
110,000,000 people paid £5,'500,000 in 12
months, of which £38,000 went to the Com-
monwealth Government. What he did not
mention was that 99 per cent, of the pictures
were imported, mostly from U.S.A.
“M.G.S” : In George Findlay Bendigo pro-
duced an indomitable son. The difficulties
confronting a virtuoso who has his sight
are great enough, but Findlay is blind. He
first showed his musical talent in the Blind
Institute in St. Kilda-road, and Supt. Hedger
gave him every encouragement, as is his way.
He had to learn the bass notes of a score
by feeling the Braille notation with his right
hand while playing with his left, and the
treble by feeling with his left hand and
playing with his right. Then he had to com-
bine the two in his sightless mind. Faced
with such handicaps the average, blind musi-
cian seldom gets beyond playing “Home,
Sweet Home,” but Findlay demanded to
be taken seriously as a pianist in the
A.N.A. competitions at Ballarat. He was
assisted to matriculate, went to the Univer-
sity and supported himself there by winning
one scholarship after another. He made
his first big public appearance at Melbourne
Assembly Hall last week. He played Beet-
hoven’s Appassionata, Brahms’s Intermezzo
in B flat minor, Cesar Franck’s tremendous
Symphonic Variations and some cheerful
compositions of his own; and the applause
that broke over him w T as not a mere compas
sionate allowance, but a tribute to real bril-
liance and skill. The young man—he is 23
—gets a benefit at the Town Hall in Sep-
tember to enable him to carry on. Inciden-
tally, he helps to support himself by giving
lessons to pupils who have their sight.
SONG-RECITAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some lack of financial support, I confess,
Marred the concert I recently gave,
Though I scored an undoubted Artistic Suc-
cess
With my suave and mellifluous stave.
Of course, in such matters, the ultimate ainj
Is rather True Art than Hard Cash,
And recitals may hasten the day when your
name
In large incandescents shall flash.
Even so, when my audience rose to its feet
As the ultimate offering closed,
I admit that the foretaste of glory was
sweet,
Though less than I’d fondly supposed.
For one-quarter of all that were there in
the hall
Came round to the back to hob-nob
And proffer kind words —but discounted it
all
By attempting to borrow five bob.
And the other three blighters stole softly
away,
Like the Arab who folded liis tent,
Two-tliirds of their number omitting to pay,
While the last had a “brief” he’d been
sent.
N.S.W.
BYSOM AUBERE.


Prohibition —
THE MOST ABSURD
PROPOSITION EVER LAID
BEFORE AUSTRALIANS!
IMAGINE a salesman coming to you and
saying “I want you to buy this car. You’ll
like it. I admit the price is very high but
it is an extraordinary car. True —every-
body else who has bought one is cursing
the day he did so; and it is a fact that
most purchasers have thrown it on the
junk heap after the first few years.
You’ll find it impossible to drive the car
—but it looks well. Better buy it! ”
Absurd?— well, what about this?
THE prohibitionists are asking you to buy Prohibition for
N.S.W. The price is £4,592,81 2 annually (loss of revenue
from liquor obtained in N.S.W.), £500,000 (1 oss of State revenue
from license fees), and at the very least £2,000,000 a year for
attempted enforcement, with, in addition, well over £20,000,000
(for compensation). Practically every country which has ever tried
Prohibition has thrown it out, and those which still have it are flouting
and deriding the law. No country in the world has ever been able
to enforce it, and every jot of evidence points to the fact that it is
unenforceable. It has not decreased drunkenness—-it has multiplied
the very troubles it promised to eliminate!
YET THEY ASK YOU TO BUY IT!
Vote AGAINST this obvious absurdity!
On September Ist
if CWI K kit
The Liquor Trades Defence Union of N.S.W.
W;.


»
\
m
1
\ '
♦
•1 /
There Is No Teacher
Like Experience
D EMEMBER this when you decide to purchase a new
tyre. And remember that out of the teachings of
experience—more people the world over ride on Goodyear
tyres than on any other make!
Could any finer tribute be paid the quality of Goodyear
Ty res? Yet, after all, perhaps the greatest reason why you
should fit Goodyear Tyres is contained in the long, trouble-
free service you receive as a Goodyear user.
sdf
Cured on a circu-
lar Mould, Good-
year Tubes con-
form naturally to
the shape of the
cover, and so
Fit Perfectly.
Now Made in Australia, the NEW
LOW GOODYEAR PRICES apply
to All Sizes and Types of INNER
TUBES and all CASINGS other
than a few sizes which are in
small demand.
GOO
T\
'S..
AR


W here can I buy beautiful china ?
In the shop that sells Shelley China, is the answer. A
Shelley Coffee Set has the rare purity of colour that made
Staffordshire china world-famous. The Shelley Cups
of beautiful form—light, thin, elegant, strong—are a
pleasure to use; and every hostess loves a Shelley set for
the modest splendour that it imparts to Afternoon Tea.
As\ to see the latest Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Daint y White China,
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel Lucie Attwell and Hilda Cowham,
Shelley Domestic Ware, and Shelley Jelly Moulds—all British. In case
of any difficulty in obtaining write to: —T. W HEAIH
& CO., LTD., 23z CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
CHINA
Look for the name Shellei) on each piece of China
sdf
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
w.
Nominal Capital £lOO,OOO
Issued Capital • 49,161
Paid-up Capital 30,234
Investments in Canberra Are
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties.
Directors:
John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
G. Woodger, Esq.; S. J. Goulston, Esq. •
R. G. H. Joseland, Esq.
Free of State Income Tax.
Full particulars on application.
G. FUSSELL, General Manager.
Holds 50$ More Ink
• ) tiCn® |
f xx
f
\
f ——
'{xmxgzzi
Tfss^A^
ONOTO
>?ioUog Sa^dbp-*
Make Onoto your Pen —It is a great time-
saver and the best writing instrument it is
possible to obtain, and the fact that it
holds 50 per cent, more ink than any
other self-filling pen has gained for Onoto,
the Pen, the first place.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C. 1.
I Riftjresentatives : Norman Baker & Longhursfc
50 York Street, Sydney.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
II 12
§r.*
m
Opulence
has
Little Place
in the modem conception of adornment. In both
domestic and personal appointments, simplicity is the
keynote of what is regarded as the best.
Elgin watches embody art as well as craft in their making:
beauty as well as utility has been the manufacturer’s aim.
Therefore, in wearing an Elgin, you have a double
assurance of correctness in both time and taste.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
<?>lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
fh/y fra.de Mark W(3jf/ in the Watch Care
JLOOO SATISFYING SHAVES ,NONE
JUYTHIS RAZOR And sharewith thousands of others the
that shave after shave of satin smooth-
ness brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR?
J>airi
presentation Case
\ Z5/-M free
Cy
to
Guaranteed
in order for two years free^^^'' ;•’ ; .
CRAIG &AITKEN, 6S4 GEORGE ST.SYDN
Art and Some Pot-boilers.
Spaciousness is the keynote of the etchings
of 11. J. Stuart Brown, another of the Eng-
lish artists who have realised the good mar-
ket that has grown up in Australia. In the
pictures shown at the Macquarie Gallery,
Sydney, the artist takes the critic to high
places and points to sweeping views with a
spirit that is almost exultant. It is all
admirably done. “The Isle of Ely from
Covenay,” for instance, gives a feeling of rest-
ful calm, yet lures the tramping tourist on
to the ancient tower that looms up right
over the far horizon. Although the artist
most likes his rustic rambles, “St. Paul’s
Warehouses” shows strong treatment, effec-
tively suggesting the stir of city life.
Usually Fairyland is reached by creeping
under a rock that hides a door which opens
surprisingly upon the strange land ; the new-
est route is along the plain commercial'floors
of Anthony Horderns’ and up in the lift to
the art gallery, where 79 of Ida Rentoul
Outhwaite’s pictures arc hung. The artist’s
decorative and color sense is very keen, and
nearly all her pictures are delightful: the
delicately fantastic backgrounds and daintily
curving lines of her main subjects are most
poetical. But when she gets away from
fairies to more prosaic tilings she shows her
limitations. It is a pity that any
such incongruities should have
been introduced into so singu-
larly fresh and pleasing a show.
A drink or 20 might be a great
help to the understanding of the
curious defiance of art which
Grace Cossington Smith has
thrown on the walls of the
Grosvenor Gallery, Sydney; but
the effect has been rather spoiled
because the people in charge
of the gallery—commercial
hounds !—have hung the pieces
in the usual manner, instead of
slantwise or in the act of per-
forming somersaults. For all
that, the show is ' a great place
for the collector of fan tods ; he
will particularly like that view
of Turramurra in which a goat
is drawing a rubbish cart up a
hill—or would be drawing it if
his legs were not falling from
under him. “Pumpkin Leaves
Drooping” is a vegetable-garden picture as it
might be seen by a snail crawling along’ the
ground in search of nourishment; a “Choir
Boy” is a red-haired caricature gripping the
pew in horror of what the artist is doing to
him: and “People” is a portrait painted from
the best-known Noah’s Ark models. In a few
water-.colors the artist shows, nevertheless,
that she can draw if she does not try too
desperately not to.
Paul Montford entered for the S’African
Government’s competition for an equestrian
statue of Botha, to be erected at Capetown.
The Melbourne sculptor received the particu-
lars late and had to work day and night to
get his model finished. Even then he landed
the third prize.
That strange but appealing arboreal joke,
the Victorian red gum, which looks less like
a tree than an exposed nervous system,
comes in for much careful attention in Carl
Hampel’s show of oils at Melbourne Decora-
tion Galleries. The uncouth vegetable suf-
fers somewhat from the artist’s detailed
method of dealing with it, and some of the
smaller and mistier landscapes are plea-
santer, especially a ploughing scene richly
suggestive of a winter’s morning and a blue-
nosed painter warming his fingers at the
fires of inspiration. Hampel is fond of large
AS OTHERS SEE US.
“Say, girlie, which do I look like—a beer or
a whisky?"
“Personally I think you look more like a
counter-lunch.”
still-lifes, meticulously painted, but lie car-
ries them to such a high degree of un atmos-
pheric finish that they end in having no more
personality than a new unbrella.
Art appears to be a leisure-time occupa-
tion for Isabel H. Tweddle, whose spoils
of a European tour are at the Fine Art Gal-
leries, Melbourne. She has had 75 shots at
the bull’s-eye and scored a few magpies and
more outers.
Percy Leason got a quaint request the
other day. It was from Henri Corbiere, of
the “Societe des Gens de Lettres de France,'’
and it begged the artist to have the kindness
to “affix his maxim of life or his motto on
the herewith paper,” which paper is to be
enclosed in the “Book of Maxims of Life of
the Artists, Authors and the Learned of the
Whole World.” The writer claims to have
already obtained answers from 1324, includ-
ing Wells, Shaw, Pirandello and Poincare.
It suggests an easy way of making a saleable
book. If Leason has a motto, it is prob-
ably “Hard Work.”
The Struggle for a Crust.
“C.Q.”: It shows what a hard row the
Australian inventor has to plough that the
gearbox device for ’planes in which A. _C.
Wragg has just succeeded in interesting
N’York is 10 years old. Wragg is a Mel-
burnian well known long ago for his temer-
arious experiments with gliders. His scheme
is to alter the positions of the wings so that
a flier’s speed can be increased or re-
duced while in the air. Canadian and Ger-
man manufacturers are also showing interest
in the thing.
“Okolehao”: “Larrapinta” (B. 11/6/’2B)
shows lack of imagination when he says
it is impossible to disguise the smell of an
illicit still. The difficulty was solved long
ago by thousands of city and suburban dis-
tillers all over the United States. These
worthy citizens lay in a stock of old worn-
out automobile tyres, and when distilling
day comes round a piece of tyre is placed in
the centre of a slow-burning rubbish fire, and
then there’s only one smell in the neighbor-
hood.
TRIED ’EM BOTH.
WEALTHY ACTOR: “Ah, Shakspeare is hard to
beat.”
OLD DOWN-AND-OUT COLLEAGUE: “No doubt,
no doubt! But I’ve found my landlady
harder.”
“Kerys”: On behalf of a benevolent
association I called at a suburban cottage
to interview a lady who bad sent a pathetic
appeal for aid. While I waited at the door
a seedy individual arrived and leaned against
the door-post. After viewing me gloomily for'
some seconds he became communicative.
“I tell yer straight,” said he, “if y’ think yer
goin’ t’ git any money here yer mistaken.
I’m here for that, too. It took me three
years to git the gramophone money, an’ I
don’t s’pose I’ll ever see the last of the
pianola cash.” On my report we, left the lady
to pay for such trifles unassisted.
“Gwy”: A profession called into being by
the motor habit is that of “spotter.” He is
a sort of half-brother of the bookmaker’s
agent who infests every big workshop and
factory. The spotter’s job is to put some
acquaintance who is a car salesman in touch
with likely prospects; he draws a com-
mission if any business follows. Motor sales-
men have long had to split their commission
with garage proprietors who put business
in their way, but the spotter is a new de-
velopment.
“Runa” : The tontine system of financing
(B. 18/7/’2S) is also practised by those Aus-
trian and Balkan communities which in the
far north of Maoriland go in for intensive
gum-digging. The profits are pooled, and at
regular intervals lots are drawn and the
winner takes the lot. At one time it meant
that the lucky digger could return to his
home town and live in luxury, but now that
fruit-farming has become popular among
the Austrians a good many of them elect to
stay in Maoriland and put the money into
an apple orchard.
“Roycha” : Frankfurt- and pie-vendors who
take their stance outside the Brisbane
Stadium received a nasty blow in the cash-
bags when the northern city’s stoush night
was changed from Saturday to Friday. One
of them complained with tears of bitterness
in his eyes to Harry Sunderland, manager
of the Stadium. “A bloke don’t sell near as
many meat-pies and hot dawgs since you’ve
gorn and changed over to Fridee, Mr. Sun-
derland.” Harry couldn’t understand it.
“Why, the crowd’s just as big—bigger, in
fact, isn’t it?” The pie-vendor smiled with
infinite wisdom. “Ah, but yer see—there’s
a lot of blokes don’t eat meat on Fridee !”
“Sliep” : Not all motor-cars reported to the
police as stolen end up in the hands of
thieves. Sydney has a new profession, the
members of which style themselves “repos-
sessors.” Their job is to trace the where-
abouts of a car-owner who is evading pay-
ment of instalments due and periodically
changes his address to baffle his creditors.
The most favored method is to locate the car
in town; should the nominal owner leave it
for a few minutes, he will return home by
tram. Recently we had occasion to give re-
possessors a job. They located the car with-
in a week, but found it was always locked
up. After a brain-wave an appointment was
made by telephone at the office of a company
in which the nominal owner was financially
interested. Our sleuth waited at the
appointed hour, and as the man entered the
office door his car disappeared. Our repos
sessor brought the car to us immediately, but
we were surprised to find that he had also
repossessed an old gentleman, the father of
the owner, who had been sleeping peacefully
on the rear seat. So indignant was the old
man that he squared his son’s account, so
that he should have no further dealings with
us. -


m
m
K
i
S 3
w&
rt-
• * •
i;\
4
f
The 4 'Valet” alone among safety razors
possesses the secret of giving you a quick,
clean shave with the same blade, day after
day,, week after week. That secret is first
a blade made of the finest steel brought to
the finest edge, and, secondly the power
of retaining that edge by ten seconds
daily stropping.
Any user, and their number is legion, will
tell you what that combination means to
the comfort of his before-breakfast shave.
“VALET”
Au/to/Str-ap
Safety Razor
British Made.
Of all dealers.
No. 50—Nickel Set. Contains
heavily - silvered razor, 1 2
blades and strop in hinged
container. Complete in
highly polished
nickelled set
21/-
Managing Agents for Australia —
PHIPSON (EL COMPANY, LTD., 181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
~New Zealand Agents:—Van Staveren Bros., Ltd., Aucldand, Wellington, Christchurch.
k ’ ■ %
xV\A b °W?/>%
Ml
AUSTRALIAN
MADE
All popular throughout Australia
Billabong Pumps are made in our Melbourne and Sydney factories.
They embody scientific design and sound construction. There s a Billabong
type of Pump for most pumping purposes.
For Farm, Factory and the Home
Our manufactured Pumps have given satisfaction throughout 50 long
years, and there’s our guarantee backing up all the goods we make.
Our Pump Catalogue deals with Pumps, Pumping Machines and
Accessories. It is Post Free on request.
am.'iimiuihii
| JOHN
=iiiiiiiiiiiiiimiii!
■llllllliflllllliU.
LTD
pTY-
&SON i
miiiiuiisiiiiiimrc
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Radiant
Health
and Vigour
r»\ rat
c-
Strong and energetic, she enjoys
work and play alike, and sleeps like
a baby when the day is over. No
wonder she looks so happy. The
secret is her regular use of Sanatogen.
When you feel depressed and every
little task seems a mountain of trouble,
your system is crying out for
Sanatogen.
Sanatogen is a wonderful strength
and energy producing food for the
weak and ailing. It gives
strength and health to- those who
suffer from debility and lassitude.
Determine to try Sanatogen. It is obtain ->
able at all Chemists from 3/9 per tin.
sanatogen
GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.


The New Reinforced Breech
GUN
LONG-DISTANCE
Australia, more than any other country in the world, requires a gun strong in the breech, because
our varying temperatures generate such high pressures in Explosives. Having a long experience
of sporting conditions here, we have all our Guns made to suit these requirements, and the
latest addition to Specially Made Models is the long-distance Reinjorced Breech Single-Barrelled
Gun. It has full choke, finely-bored 34in. steel barrel, snap fore-end top lever, automatic ejector,
half-pistol grip. Weight 71b. 6oz. Post free. Price, 75/-. Also 36in., 80/-
Va
LTD
PTY
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street
MELBOURNE.
»
REPAIRS TO GUNS AND RIFLES. ALL WORK GUARANTEED.
For They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESOTS
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
And so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON. [l
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Though an Epsom fancy for weeks past,
Reonui surprised his party in the Auburn
Handicap at Rosehill on Saturday. It was
thought he had not been “up” long enough
after his spell; then the track was heavy,
his burden was 9st. 21b., and the distance
was six furlongs, whereas his previous racing
had been done at 10 and 11 furlongs. So
some of the bookmakers offered 20 to 1 and
others (the majority) made it 15’s, Bel
Astre, a two-year-old, being favorite at 5 to
2. Reonui, who was ridden by McOarten (he
is trained by Price), hopped out almost as
smartly as any of them; he was pacing it
with the two-year-old at the half-mile and the
home turn, disposed of him at the distance,
and came on to win, untroubled, from Quince
(14 to 1), Jazz Baby (9 to 2) and Algerian
Prince in lmin. 16isec. He is now second
favorite for the Epsom, Karuma being at
the shortest price.
Olympian King, a brother to Braehead,
provided the bagmen with another pleasant
surpise by bobbing up in a division of the
Maiden Handicap, at 16 to 1. He was
ridden by Tommy O’Bryan, noted for his
victories on Fluency a few seasons ago; as
it happened, a daughter of Fluency—Jargon,
by Comedy King—was a close second. Jar-
gon, who went out at the same price as
Olympian King, will do better. O’Bryan
also got Anorient (7 to 1) home in the
Rydalmere Mile —it was Anorient’s first
start since his success in the A.J.C.’s big
hurdle race, and he relished the heavy going.
Mithra (evens), an Australian-bred filly
who has done a bit of racing in Maoriland,
proved too good for the lot she met in the
Juvenile Handicap, though Markdennis (7
to 1), the third horse, would have been
closer but for making the home turn awk-
wardly—he did the same thing at Canter-
bury Park —and the in-and-out Sofia (3 to
1) beat a small field of moderates in the
Club Handicap.
:!s * * *
For Warwick Farm on Saturday :
Denham Court Plate: Royal Tune; next,
Inflation.
Denham Court Purse: Prest; next,
Yalatch.
Maiden Handicap: Tarapunga ; next, Val-
halla.
August Handicap: Sharp Son; next, The
Lance.
Edensor Park Handicap : Pigeon Pie ; next,
New Fire.
And for Moorefield on Monday:—
Moorefield Mile: Nan Kourgan; next,
Smart Bird.
Bank Holiday Handicap: Magician; next,
Misty Lad.
* * * *
Two of the winners at Moonee Valley
last Saturday, Sir Alogy and Seafit, are
engaged in the Australian Hurdle Race, and
both put up attractive performances. Sir
Alogy galloped freely and jumped stylishly
in the Gellibrand Hurdle. Seafit, for his
part, ran away with the Jumpers’ Flat.
This horse was successful in the long
V.A.T.C. event last year.
With Migrant out of it, Sir Alogy/ who
had run a fair second to Henare in the
Leamington Hurdle, was at a short price,
the final quote being 5 to 4. He was always
in the van, and though Autrolite and The
Ringer looked for a time as if they might
make a race of it, he went away from the
field round the home turn, and, going easily,
was three-quarters of a length ahead of
Autrolite (15 to 1) at the finish, Lord
Bounty (7 to 1) and The Ringer being next.
Sir Alogy has been racing consistently, and
with only 9st. in the Australian Hurdle—he
won with 9st. 111 b respect.
The Grand National Hurdle winner Long-
lands, making his first appearance since his
Doutta Galla failure, was favorite, at fours, for
the Jumpers’ Flat. Seafit (7 to 1) dashed
to the front about- half a mile from home,
and had a commanding lead at the turn ; he
went on to win easily from Migrant (9 to
2) and Tiki (20 to 1). Seafit carried lOst.,
and is in the Australian Hurdle with lOst.
21b. Longlands, who finished a close fourth,
was last for a great part of the journey,
and Knevitt was censured by the stewards
for riding a bad race.
Reviser is in a class above the five who
opposed him in the Lindsay Gordon Steeple,
and the bookmakers would not lay better
than 4to 6. Hitting the front immediately,
FLAHERTY’S FLAT TAKES VP CROQUET.
the young Red Dennis gelding gave a bril-
liant exhibition of fencing and demoralised
the field. He passed the winning post 12
lengths clear of Valbroy (7 to 1), the only
other nag to complete the course. Reviser,
who is owned by V.R.C. committeeman J. A.
MacLeod and C. F. Taylor, is not engaged
in the Australian Steeple.
Betting took a wide range in the Glen
Orla Handicap. Darcy Eccles’s imported
gelding New Hope finished up first in de-
mand at 7 to 2; Batteryman, Wallarak and
Beppinsan were at fives, and Sailing Home
and Dartmoor at sixes. It proved the best
of good things for Beppinsan, who, nearly
always in the lead, went right away from
the others in the straight and won by
lengths from New Hope and Wallarak,
Tomison rode the winner, who should score
again soon.
The stewards reversed the judge’s decision
after an exciting finish in the Dernmut
Handicap. Greener (6 to 1) arrived home
first, but, as usual, the Greefistead gelding
hung out, and as it happened he interfered
with Garonwy (9 to 4), who was awarded
the race on protest. A chestnut gelding
by Quaestor —Lady Betsy, Garonwy is
trained by F. W. Hoysted for W. J. Pel-
ham.” The Sunset Welter was run in
divisions; Reputed King (4 to 1) collected
the first and Harbinger (7 to 2) the other.
In this race there was a plunge on Cairn-
cross (5 to 4), who met with a very stormy
passage and yet contrived to run third. He
is now owned by H. Masterton, and 11.
Masterton will be compensated before long,
* * * *
With Pildin (list. 71b.), Henare (lOst.
121 b.), Johnny Cake (lOst. 101 b.), Long-
lands (lOst. 71b.), Coybeau (lOst. 21b.) and
other good ones engaged, the Australian
Hurdle Race should be well worth a trip to
Caulfield on Saturday. Anticipations:—
Australian Hurdle: Longlands; next,
Henare.
Steeplechasers’ Flat: Minterne.
Moonda Steeplechase: Chaumont.
Malakoff Stakes: Ragazzo or Cairncross.
Mornington Welter: Cairncross or Phonic.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Maoriland’s hope that another Bob Fitz-
simmons had arisen in Tom Heeney crashed
in N’York on Thursday night, when the
Lisborne blacksmith was sent back to his
corner, blinded and bleeding, after a mur-
derous battle with the title-holder, Gene
Tunney. This happened a few seconds
before the end of the eleventh round; the
bell had saved Tom in the tenth. Tunney’s
ringcraft, boxing and hitting proved superior
to the best that the challenger could produce,
though Ileeney was dead game. Relying on
his stamina and capacity for taking punish-
ment, the Maorilander bored in continuously,
but the American kept him off and as the
fight progressed cut him to pieces. Heeney
landed on his man frequently and hard, but
Tunney was never distressed. All accounts
agree that the champion, who was a strong
favorite, fought better than ever before.
The attendance was below expectations, and
the boxers will not collect more than their
guarantees; for Tunney that means £105,000
and for Heeney £20,000. The weights were:
Tunney, 13st. 101 b.; Heeney, 14st. 711 b.
* * * *
Joe Marcus (9st. 61b.) has fought twice
under the Southern Cross and won twice.
And yet he does not impress strongly; at
least, he did not at the Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night, when his opponent was Joe
Aides (9st. 411 b.) from the Philippines.
Aides boxed as if he’d been carrying cocoa-
nuts from the boat to the copra shed all day.
Marcus wasn’t much more energetic, and
the half-frozen spectators (there weren’t
many) were glad when it was all over.
Marcus got the verdict.
* * *
Yank met Yank at Melbourne Stadium
on Saturday night, and Clarence Eklund
(12st. 91b.) scored a spectacular if uncon-
vincing win over Ted Tliyc (12st. 71b.).
As an exhibition by two high-class showmen,
the early rounds were entertaining to the
ringsiders, but too slow for a section of the
big crowd, which made several attempts to
count the grapplers out. Clarence’s edu-
cated legs at times appeared as effective as
another pair of arms. In the fourth round
he scored a double-arm scissors which
pleased the crowd so much that Ted oblig-
ingly struggled in it for some minutes. When
the enthusiasm was evidently exhausted ho
easily broke free. Repeated head-locks
apparently had a most distressing effect on
the old chap in the fifth round. Coming out
weak for the sixth, he was wrist-locked
and went down on his back a minute
after the gong. Looking depressed,
Clarrie waited in his corner for Thye to
come to him at the commencement of the
seventh, but the “champion,” tripping
across daintily, was immediately pinned
with a simple-looking body press in llsecs.
Ted toppled over in returning to his seat,
but the S.P.C.A. did not interfere. Coming
out of a scrimmage immediately after the
eighth round began, Ted rolled on his back
and waited there until the rejuvenated Clar-
ence pounced on him for the deciding fall.
The finish reflected no credit on an artist
of Edward’s experience, and lie was roundly
hooted as he made a quick exit.
Footbrawl
To Victoria Park on Saturday went
36,000 people to see the meeting of the
Collingwood Magpies and the Richmond
Tigers, and the game was worth far more
than, the 9d. most of them paid. The
Tigers excelled in marking and open play,
but their kicking was erratic; the Magpies
preferred the close game with accurate pass-
ing. And always they backed each other up
—it was a team playing as a whole—
and that just accounted for the difference in
the scores —’Wood, 81 points; Richmond,
73. The result left ’Wood at the head of
affairs, with every prospect of staying there:
Melbourne is still second, Richmond third,
and either Essendon, Carlton or Footscray
may sneak into fourth place. Meib. on Satur-
day overwhelmed ’Roy, 126 to 79; Carlton
routed Hawthorn, 149 to 79; ’Scray squeezed
home from Geelong, 57 to 56; St. Kilda beat
North Melbourne, 137 to 78; and ’Don
outed South Melbounie, 119 to 83. The re-
doubtable Stockdale, whose compulsory rest
has made him a vastly improved player, col-
lected nine goals for ’Don.
* * * *
Clearly the Westralians did not exhibit
their best form against Victoria. At Adel-
aide on Saturday they played a first-clas3
game against S. Aus., which had drawn
with Victoria earlier in the season, and
were dangerous till the final bell. S.A.
won by 99 to 88.
(Continued on page 41.)
Australia did not advance on the opening
day of the Olympic Games at Amsterdam.
Certainly Carlton ran second to a Hungarian,
Raggamdi, in a heat of the 100 metres, but
in the quarter-finals he came fourth in a
race won by Wykoff (U.S.A.) in 10 4-ssec.
Bracy, another American, won his heat in
10 2-ssec., world’s record time. The unlucky
Watson was the only Australian to figure in
the 400 metres hurdles, but he could do
nothing owing to his damaged ankle. Stuart
and Whyte also failed in the 800 metres;
Whyte, fourth in his heat, did the better
of the pair. The first final, that for the
shot putt, was won by Kuck (U.S.A.) with
52ft. 0 11-16 in., which cracks the world’s
record of 51ft., put up by American Ralph
Rose just 19 years ago. The great Nurmi
was supreme in the 10,000 metres in 30min.
18sec., an Olympic record.
* * * *
The inter-State baseball at Sydney saw
two N.S.W. sides victorious 'over Victoria
and South Aus. in the opening round. South
Aus. beat Victoria in the second round by
7 to 2, poor fielding letting the Vies. down.
The appearance of Stanford University
against Victoria on Saturday was a big
attraction. The Victorians won by 5 runs
to 3, but the Californians were only two
days off the boat and had had very little
practice. Their throwing, with its charac-
teristic American snappiness, was attractive.
At the plate they were bothered by Scott’s
pitching, the Victorian’s slow curves being
something quite new to them. Ponsford
fielded well in the outfield and with Pizzey
and Potter made a good showing with the
bat.
OBVIOUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You call him crook, an’ holler for the stipes,
And swear the game’s just up to putty —
’Struth!
You oughter moan as if y’d got the gripes,
Or maybe, son, y’ve cut a wisdom tooth;
An’ dam’ near time... .that’s if y’re askin’
me.
Or don’t they grow ’em up at Dingo Creek?
Of course, he lost! An’ where’s the mystery
In that, I ask —didn’t he win las’ week?
You call him crook; a hearse for the remains
Y’re yellin’ for; and all the flamin’ time
The only thing that’s dead, son, is y’r
brains;
To give them burial wouldn’t be no crime.
Aw, take a pull! The worst mug always
kicks
The most; unless he’s some fandangled
freak,
A horse must eat. Then what’s the use of
six
To four? Wasn’t he eight to one las’ week?
You call him croolc, and hit the flamin’ roof,
An’ howl y’ve done y’r—dollar, was it? —
cold. .
Well, seein’ you don’t know harness from a
hoof,
Get back to where the giddy goats are
foaled
An’ race ’em in the paddock. Then y’d miss
The winner like as not. Ah, stow the
shriek!
To go an’ back him on a day like this —
Why, aren’t the Cup weights cornin’ out
nex’ week?
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


EMMI
. 1
m
B
D
CAR
BATTERIES
I
if
tti
finis
9
IN
MOULDED
CONTAINERS
Type 6-XC9-IGL
Suitable for Arrol-Johnston, Standard
Armstrong Siddeley, Hillman, Rover,
etc.
Voltage — 12 Volts.
Capacity— s 7 Ampere-Hours at the
20-hour rate of discharge.
Dimensions —7in. Wide x Long
over Lugs x 9fin. High over Lid.
Weight— 74lb.
Holding-down Bolts— £in. dia. x 1 2 fin.
Centres.
THERE IS AN EXIDE TYPE
TO SUIT ANY MAKE OF CAR
These Exide car batteries, in moulded multi-
compartment containers, are of excellent
appearance and finish.
The material of the containers has been
carefully selected, after extended trial, and is
superior to ordinary container compositions.
It is mechanically stronger, gives better insula-
tion, and is chemically inert, thus ensuring the
purity of the acid being maintained.
Every type incorporates the special Exide
features in design of plates, separators, etc.,
which give long life, trouble-free service, and
enormous cranking ability.
Ask for Catalogue “M.”
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS—
VICTORIA and TASMANIA—A. P. SUTHERLAND, Exide Service Station, Queen’s Bridge, 2 Maffra Street Melbourne
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—UNBEHAUN & JOHNSTONE (W.A.), LTD., Radio House, 383-387 Murray Street Perth
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—UNBEHAUN & JOHNSTONE, LTD., Rosina Street, Adelaide y
QUEENSLAND—EXIDE BATTERY SERVICE (Q.) LTD., Adelaide Street, Brisbane
NEW SOUTH WALES—GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., LTD.. Hunt Street, off Wentworth Avenue Sydney
NEWTON & SMITH, Newcastle, Sub-Distributors. *
NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS—
HOPE, GIBBONS, LTD., Wellington, Auckland and Christchurch.


The Royal Agricultural Society
of Victoria.
Grand Annual Exhibition.
NINE DAYS.
Thursday, 20th, to Saturday, 29th
September, 1928.
COMPREHENSIVE DISPLAY OF STOCK,
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCE AND
INDUSTRIAL EXHIBITS.
SIXTY ACRES OF INTENSE INTEREST.
LIBERAL PROGRAMME OF PRIZES, amount-
ing to over £BOOO (including Champion
Prizes of Australia).
COMPETITIVE ENTRIES (except Ring Events)
CLOSE SATURDAY, AT NOON, 18th AUG.
ENTRIES FOR ARENA EVENTS CLOSE
SATURDAY, AT NOON, Ist SEPTEMBER.
MEMBER’S SUBSCRIPTION, COVERING
BADGE AND TWO LADIES’ TICKETS
AND GENERAL PRIVILEGES, £l/10/-
per annum.
LIFE MEMBER’S SUBSCRIPTION, £l5/15/-
EXTRA LADIES’ TICKETS, 10/6 each.
PRIZE SCHEDULES, ENTRY FORMS, ETC.,
ON APPLICATION.
HENRY SCHWIEGER, Secretary.
Note Address: Temple Court, 9th Floor,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne.
c.c c
,*VC C
«r.
%
Tf
~r
In addition to having tremendous
carry the Henley flies absolutely
true and even. Play the Henley
and watch your game improve.
You’ll play with greater confidence
by far.
Obtainable from Professionals and Sports
Dealers, or from —
W. T. HENLEY’S
TELEGRAPH WORKS CO., LTD.,
83 Clarence Street, Sydney.
205 William Street, Melbourne.
59 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
HENLEY
MESH MARKING
fiOLF BALL
Complete Golf Sets
Comprising Brassie, Mid-iron,
Mashie, Putter, Good-quality
Bag and Two Balls.
All Sticks Well Finished
and Balanced.
Irons Guaranteed
Hand-forged.
asdf
Made
by The
Heather
Golf Co.,
Scotland.
Price
57/6
(Rail Free)
LADIES’ SETS
IN STOCK.
N.S.W. Sports Store, Ltd.,
11-13 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
ALAN KIPPAX, Director.
Footbrawl
The All Blacks have struck a winning
trot since their success in the second Test
match at Jo’burg. Last week they beat the
strong Pretoria District by 13 to 6 and fol-
lowed this up by winning 15-11 from the
Orange Free State at Bloemfontein, the
scores having been 5-5 at half-time. Of tlie
14 games played to date the tourists have won
1.0, lost 3, and drawn 1, scoring 208 points
to 108.
* * =i= *
Back from Brisbane, where it had played
a special exhibition match against a local
side, winning 37-8, University Rugby Union
team got a surprise from Western Suburbs;
the Black-and-Whites won a hard game on
Uni. Oval by 14 to 12. Their forwards were
predominant throughout, and the margin
would have been wider but for Ross’s
splendid work at full-back. In the mud at
the Grammar ground, St. George, the infant
of the Union clubs, astonished all and
sundry by getting a scoreless draw with_ the
competition leaders, Y.M.G.A. The Saints
excellent pack kept the Young Men penned
up for most of the time. Manly, revelling
in the heavy going, galloped over Rand-
wick’s pack, though the latter’s backs did
well in the face of stiff attacks, and won by
30 to 25. Northern Suburbs beat Glebe-
Balmain in a forward battle, 11 to 8. On
Monday N.S.W. will meet Victoria in
Sydney and the team for Maoriland will be
chosen after the game.
* * * *
“Brian Born” : Watching a game of hurl-
ing at Moore Park (N.S.W.), I asked myself
whether that other peculiarly Irish game,
Gaelic football, has ever been played in
Australia. Can anyone enlighten me? All I
know of the Gaelic game is the _ immortal
definition of it and other codes given by a
famous Irish football writer, the late .T. -T.
McCarthy. He wrote that in Rugby you
kicked both ball and man; in Soccer you
kicked the man if you couldn’t kick the ball;
in Gaelic you kicked the ball if you couldn’t
kick the man.
sic * * *
N.S.W. League footballers crashed in the
third match with Queensland, played in
Brisbane on Saturday, going down by 28
(0 tries and 5 goals) to 17 (3 tries and
4 goals). The Welshmen were without
Wearing and Weissell, but at no time did
they give any evidence of holding their
opponents, much less defeating them. The
best showing was in the forward division,
but even here the men failed to get together
and combined badly with the backs, who
showed even more disorganisation. . The
Queensland pack, as usual, played good
football, and the team as a whole showed
far more combination and initiative than
their opponents, though the game all round
could not be called a high-class exhibition.
The Queensland backs had little difficulty in
opening up their game, the inside backs show-
ing well, with Gorman prominent in every
movement. A weak spot was Craig at full-
back; the veteran had an off day and pre-
sented the opposition with a couple of tries,
through his over-confidence, though he kicked
five goals. Hardy, back in the centre posi-
tion, was the best of the visiting backs. The
attendance was poor, considering the impor-
tance of the match, being under 11,000.
ijc
The Rugby League grade matches in
Sydney were played on muddy grounds.
Eastern Suburbs maintained its position by
beating Western Suburbs at Pratten Park,
14 to 6. St. George, level in the competition
with East, also won after University had
led it by 2 points, 11-9, in the second half.
Over-eagerness in the Uni. forwards gave
St. George a penalty goal; this was fol-
lowed by a field goal and a try, which left
the Saints 5 points in the lead. Glebe
trounced Newtown by 11-3, and at North
Sydney the local men provided South
Sydney with a varied entertainment. South
won by 14 to 9, but O’Connor, its star for-
ward on the day, had to be taken to hospital
after a heavy knock, and Righton, its full-
back, was sent off —a proceeding followed by
a minor riot, which was squelched by the
llolice -*
“Gate” r So much has been heard lately of
the extortion practised by the Sydney Cricket
Ground people on the pore Rugby League
that a look at the other side of the ledger
may be worth while. This season the League
received £5755 from the three matches
against Queensland played on the S.C.G.;
the trustees of the ground got £482. For
the five matches against the English team
in Sydney the League collected ,£17i,206
and the trustees £933, which makes, in all,
£23,031 for the League and £1415 for the
trustees. Sixty per cent, of the League’s cut
had to go to the Englishmen, but even then
the N.S.W. body had no reason to complain.
Under the present agreement the trustees
take 5 p.c. on the English games, 7J from
inter-State fixtures and 10 p.c. from flub
matches. The trustees now ask for an in-
crease to 10 p.c., 12i p.c. and 15 p.c. respec-
tively, and have refused a smaller offer.
They have also made it evident that the
League will have to give other codes of foot-
ball a share of the Cricket Ground dates if
the lease is to be renewed. The League has
obligingly offered four days in the season to
the three other codes of football, and even
then objects to any two of them being con-
secutive. There the matter stands for the
present.
* * * *
“Choom”: The itinerary for the English
League footballers in Maoriland is a long
and heavy one, extending from Auckland to
Invercargill and back to Wellington, whence
the side departs for Vancouver. The tour is
a last desperate attempt at propaganda on
the part of the Maoriland League, and will
cost someone a pretty penny, for the side
is invading the strongholds of the Rugby
Union, where the professional code is almost
unheard of, The local League has no money,
and the “gates” outside Auckland will be
nothing to write home about. If the English-
men are paying their way on a percentage
basis, as seems likely, there will be agony in
the halls of the Northern Union in England
when the ledger comes to be balanced.
$ * * *
“Swing the Boot” : The honeyed sweetness
of the farewells between the English and
Australian League footballers was slightly
acidulated, as far as the N.S.W. body was
concerned, by praise accorded to the so-
called Board of Control by the English
manager, who begged his hearers to maintain
the excellent institution. As the N.S.W.
League repudiated the board as soon as its
own interest appeared likely to be affected,
and passed a bloodthirsty resolution that
the thing should be abolished forthwith, this
must be considered a reflection on the Ma
Staters. The resolution referred to, by the
way, was duly passed on to the board, but
that body, fortified by the approval of the
departing Briton, has intimated politely but
firmly that it declines to throw itself over
the Gap, as requested. Further bricks, inter-
spersed with bottles, may be expected from
the N.S.W. League.
BRAINS, NOT BRAWN.
PROPESSOR BINES, M.A.: “Perhaps if I hit the ball harder?”-
CADDIE: “It ain’t strength wot’s required for this game — it’s intellect.”
“Norwood”: The South Aus. Football
League is taking vigorous action to sup-
press the epidemic of rough play (B.
25/7/’2B). Last week L. J. Ashby, who
had been chosen to represent South Aus.
against Westralia, was disqualified for three
years for assaulting the umpire in the:
match between West Torrens and West
Adelaide. Action of that sort is far more
likely to bring about reform than the
trivial sentences of suspension for one or
two playing Saturdays which are fashion-
able with some of the other codes.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey”: Victoria lias a remarkable
young golfer in 13-year-old Harry Williams,
who won the Commonwealth Club’s monthly
medal in Melbourne last week. A left-hander,
the lad has practically every shot in his
bag, while his style is unimpeachable. The
Gommonweath course is one of the longest
in Australia, and is heavily bunkered, but
the boy went round in 78, which with his
minus handicap of 4 strokes put him 4 up
on bogey. All the leading golfers in Britain
and America are men who began the game
as youngsters; most of the best we have in
Australia to-day also started early. On
present showing another 10 years should
see this country playing golf as good as can
be seen anvwhere in the world. But the
authorities ‘ must stir themselves to send
teams abroad and bring overseas golfers to
Australia if the finishing touches are to be
imparted.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The long domination of S.A.
golf by the senior men has come to an end
with the defeat of Legh Winser m the
final of the amateur championship by W. S.
Rymill. W.S. is only 19; the second
initial stands for “Seaton,” as he was thus
prophetically named by his father, who had
a lot to do with the founding of Seaton links
and has latterly been mainly responsible
for those at Kooyonga. Another player of
great promise is Tucker, who in an early
round put out Gheadle, the holder. Cheadle
has held the title half a dozen times at
intervals.
* :> *
“Divot Digger”: The Royal Sydney Golf
Club’s Service Cup was won last week in
a howling gale by A. G. Hill, who scored
84 off the stick, his handicap being minus 9.
The winner has only one leg, and on such
a day his total would have been creditable
to any player. It is marvellous how a
difficult game like golf can be played well
under apparently impossible handicaps. One-
armed golfers are quite common, and not
long ago The Bulletin chronicled the
achievements of a blind golfer who was a
regular club player in England.
* * * *
“Bass” : Len Nettlefold, who won the Aus
tralian amateur championship in 1926 and
did so well in Britain afterwards, is showing
fine form in the Speck this year. So much so
that the Tassies already consider him home-
and-dried for the Australian open, which is
to be staged in Sydney next September.
There are, however, other Richmonds in the
field, notably the Queensland amateur Rad-
cliffe, who recently cleaned up a field which
included the mighty Ivo Whitton in the
Queensland amateur championship. Radcliffe
has had little opportunity of showing in the
big southern championships, but Whitton
ranks him as one of the finest players in
Australia.
“Budge”: W. H. Wallace, sometime
captain of Yarra Yarra (Vic.), addressed a
group at the 19th, saying “I want all you
chaps to pay a shilling and join the Ida
Club!” “The what?” he was asked. “The
Ida Club,” William replied. “I’d a won if
it hadn’t been for hitting a tree at the 13th.”
How few there are who haven’t qualified
for membership!
* * * #
“Canny Lad”: Australian golf clubs are
beginning to frown on players who make a
practice of buying “found” golf balls from
casual small boys. In many European clubs
this practice is forbidden under penalty of
fine or expulsion in repeated instances, and
rightly so. If the economical and conscience-
less player refused to buy “found” balls,
the flourishing industry of “finding” them
would fall flat at once, and the temptation
to begin life as a petty larcenist would not
beset the path of the nipper whose habitat
lies within easy reach of a golf course.
$ * * *
“Query”: Touching municipal courses (B.
4/7/’2B), what price Melbourne? At present
there are three —at Coburg, Flemington Bridge
and Elsternwick; and another is under con-
struction out Oakleigh way. The Elstern-
wick course is well in the limelight owing
to the Brighton Council’s decision to enforce
the ban on Sunday golf. A determined effort
is being made by regular patrons to have
this ban lifted, and lifted it may be.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The Queensland championship
golf meeting supplied some profit for the
professionals, the Northerners putting up
the money for the professional events with
characteristic liberality. Frank Eyre
(N.S.W.) collected five different prizes,
which helped him to head the winning list
with £56 for a week’s work. H. Sinclair
won £3B, while Tommy Howard pocketed a
tenner, with three or four of the local men
ahead of him. The total sum won by the
pros, was £lB6 10s., divided among a dozen
men.
if * sS if
“Claypan”: Queensland, at least, is going
to follow up The Bulletin’s repeated
suggestion that the Australian Golf Union
should organise an Australian team of
amateurs and professionals to take part m
the British amateur and open champion-
ships. This country has been represented
abroad for years in practically every form
of sport save golf. Golfers are much better
off, taken all round, than those who indulge
in any other game, and an infinitesimal levy
on the many thousands of golfers whose
clubs and associations are nowadays affili-
ated with the Golf Union would provide
ample funds to send a team abroad. Indi-
cations are that Queensland Association will
instruct its delegate to propose such a
course of action at the annual meeting of
the Union in Sydney next September, and
if .other States support the Northerners the
thing will be as good as accomplished.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: The magnificent gesture of
the American tennis authorities in disquali-
fying Tilden for alleged acts of profession-
alism turned out to be only shadow-sparring,
after all. The Tearful One was reinstated
temporarily in order that he might take
part in the Davis Cup match against France,
and he improved the shining hour by beating
Lacoste in the singles, though the Yanks
were one down when this was written. If
America wins, it looks a moral that Tilden
will come home on the bit for the Amateur
Stakes. If the Eagle is plucked, it will be
the ink-eraser for him.
* * * *
“Cut Shot” : The Australian tennis teams,
women and men, had a win over Belgium
last week, the women doing particularly well.
The men were not so impressive, Craw-
ford’s “casualness” being blamed for the
loss of the mixed doubles, in which he played
with Mrs. O’Hara Wood. Crawford and
Hopman both won their singles matches
against Dacroix and Van der Vendem, Craw-
ford being well extended, and Hopman win-
ning easily. Cummings was beaten in the
singles match with Ewbank, but won the
doubles with Moon from Washer and Fran-
cois, while Crawford and Hopman polished
off Lacroix and Ewbank. The Australian
Davis Cup team is to return via America,
though Patterson is a doubtful quantity,
at present, for singles matches. Crawford
and Hopman will both compete in the United
States national doubles and singles, and will,
it is bo be hoped, show more consistent form
than the stuff they have been giving us since
Wimbledon.
if * if *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The raptures in-
dulged in by some of the tennis writers in
the daily press whenever it appears that
profitable “gates” are likely to accrue from
the activities of Hopman, Crawford and co.
burst forth anew in Sydney when it was
announced that the Australians would visit
America. No rose but has its thorn, how-
ever, and the selection of Boston as the
venue for the matches moved at least one
genius to gloomy forebodings. “Boston,” he
writes, disgustedly, “has never returned a
big ‘gate’ to Australia, and is unlikely to
do so now.” He then proceeded with his
somewhat superfluous task of giving Boston
further beans.
* * if if
“Cash Amateur”: A delightful addition
to the amateur-status controversy has been
the disqualification of professional Vincent
Richards, by the American Tennis-players'
Association for having appeared with
amateurs in exhibition matches. The only
previous instance of a professional being
declared an amateur occurred in N.S.W. a
few years ago, when a famous Maorilan'd
Rugby Union forward who had joined the
professional League returned to the Union
fold in Sydney. For this the League officials
disqualified him for life!
♦ s,:
“Kooyong”: The Victorian tennis authori-
ties last week fixed the dates for the inter-
state matches with N. S. Wales, which
will be played at Melbourne on December
30 and January 1, 1929, the clash between
Tasmania and Victoria taking place at the
same time. As most of the cracks now over-
seas should be back by then, tennis followers
will have a chance of judging to what extent
the tour in Europe has improved the young-
sters, Crawford and Hopman, who are certain
to appear.
(Continued on next page.)


UH
A -
r*v;
S
'v_ .V*i-
-3
V sTC"-
! 1
SSS i
-vt:J
“Its Quality Never Changes. 99
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
«JD
111
85 i
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, tor Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Car and Cycle
“Clmvroford”: Unique in motor track
races is the Indianapolis Five Hundred.
Nearly all the cars are made by one lirm,
Miller's, -which specialises in speed machines.
The buyer of a Miller merely regards his
purchase as a framework and proceeds to
pull it to pieces and remake it to his heart’s
desire. The resultant production is given
a fancy name and set against its stable-
companions, also changed beyond recogni-
tion. The race resolves itself into a war
between contradictory mechanical details,
and much useful information is acquired
by the trade. This year a rear-wheel-driven
Miller gave the first place and £7OOO to
Louis Meyer, of Los Angeles, a hitherto
unknown mechanical innovator. His time
for the 500 miles averaged 99.5 m.p.h. Inci-
dentally, a front-wheel-driven Miller put up
113 m.p.h. until its engine seized.
* * * *
“Trembler” : Pending his departure for the
Syrian desert (B. 18/7/’2S) Malcolm Camp-
bell has been keeping his eye in with some
freak driving at Brooklands. This was in
the Junior Grand Prix of the Junior Car
Club, the course being altered to include
hairpin bends, mounds of sand and other
obstacles designed to make the race thrilling
and test the cars and drivers thoroughly.
Campbell drove one of the 1500-c.c. Delage
cars which had such a success in the Euro-
pean classics last year, and won by a quarter
of a mile, his mileage being 61.04 per hour.
G. Eyston was second in a 1493-c.c. Bugatti,
and another Bugatti, driven by J. D. Bcn-
'afield, filled third place.
❖ ❖ ❖ sj:
“Grade”: Australian motorists are taking
a keen interest in a newly-introduced gad-
get known as _ the Tapley gradient meter.
It indicates a rising gradient in black figures
and a falling one in red, while such matters
as acceleration and deceleration rates, hill-
climbing capacity, tractive resistance, air
resistance and half a dozen others can be
determined by it. The instrument has already
been tested on most of the well-known
N.S.W. hills, and its indications of the
steepest patches and the peculiarities of the
grades generally have been most informative.
About the only thing it won’t do, apparently,
is to swear at pedestrians.
* * * *
“Buzz”: Few folk would be prepared to
accept the record-breaking motorist as a
harbinger of the Millennium. Nevertheless,
during “Wizard” Smith’s record-breaking
run from Perth to Adelaide, something of
the sort happened. The abos. along the
route have come under missionary influence,
and when the glaring headlights of Smith’s
car shot into view across the flat plains,
miles away from their camps, it is alleged
they “adopted a prayerful attitude” under
the impression that the time had come for
them to account for their sins. All the same,
it is possible that the prayer offered up was
only the everlasting “Gibbit tickpence.”
Smith was in a hurry and couldn’t stop to
inquire.
* * * *
“Mei”: Toowoomba (Q.) claims a world’s
record for a local infant named Power.
Riding a miniature Indian motor-cycle, he
reached a speed of 30 m.p.h. on the Too-
woomba speedway. He commenced riding
when four years old, and is not yet seven.
$ * * *
“Sprocket”: Cyclists Gray and Standen
are two of this country's possibilities at Am-
sterdam, and the news that both are riding
well is reassuring. Gray was clocked to
cover 220 yards in 12 2-ssec. the other day,
the fastest time for tin* distance ever recorded
in England. The first event will be the road-
race on Friday next, for which there are
two championships—for teams, and for the
individual fastest time. This race would
have been a gift for the Victorian, Lamb,
who, in the Australian trials for it, covered
the 188 metres in nearly hhlf an hour better
time than the winner at the 1924 Olympiad.
The track events will be held on August 5.
and include the 50 kilometres and 1000
metres for individual riders, the last-named
being the great objective of the Australians.
*** * -
“Ball Race”: The League of N.S.W.
Wheelmen, which looks after the interests of
professional cycling, held its annual meeting
the other day, and reported, among other
things, that the track season had been dull
and that an active promoter was needed.
While professional cycling, both on the track
and road, is booming in Victoria, the game
lias to struggle for a foothold in N.S.W.
The main trouble is that Sydney hasn’t
a cycling arena worthy of the name. That’s
where Victoria, and especially Melbourne,
scores.
Miscellaneous
“Splash”; Andrew Charlton, one of Aus-
tralia’s hopes! at the Olympiad, flattered
his backers (as the pony papers say) by
winning an international race over the 400
metres distance at Paris. His time, smin.
ISsec., was nothing to jubilate over, but he
was not pressed, though two other Olympic
swimmers in Aria (Japan) and Van der
Plancke (Holland) were among the starters.
Charlton's best time for this distance is
4min. 59 4-ssec. which is faster by nearly
ssec. than Weismuller’s time at the last
Olympiad, though Johnny has done the
distance in 4min. 57sec. The swimming
events open at the Olympiad to-day and will
be continued practically every day up to
August 11. While the news about Charl-
ton and Pearce is very encouraging, mishaps
and sickness have put the three wrestlers
and two of the track men (Hyde and
Watson) out of action. Such things are
all part of the game, and are to be borne
philosophically, but it is disappointing to
read that the training quarters at Amster-
dam have proved unsuitable, and that “this
error of judgment has robbed the Aus-
tralians of all the advantages of their early
arrival.” There have been too many “errors
of judgment” in the history of this Olympic
team.
* # * *
“Robot” : As most people anticipated, the
banning of betting on the pursuit of the tin
hare has virtually settled the hash of that
alleged sport. The attendance at the first
Sydney meeting run under the new regime
was under three figures in one instance and
scarcely better in another. It is fitting that
the eclipse of the unsavory business in its
N.S.W. refuge should coincide with that of
the man who introduced it, “Judge” Swin-
dell, who at last accounts had found it
necessary to go “into smoke” in Portuguese
East Africa.
* * * *
“Ruetama”: Spotting Jacky sneaking oil
through the bushes, accompanied by a grey-
hound on a leash, I followed him to see
what his game was. On reaching a large
cleared paddock Jacky began bo tear round
and round, dragging the dog behind him.
“What for you do that, Jacky?” I.shouted.
“Training for the Olympic Games?” “No
fear, boss,” panted Jacky. “Dis pfella
plurry dark horse for tin hares.”
* * * *
“Long Dog”: Nowadays one does not often
hear of coursing being carried on under the
original conditions of the sport, in open
country with the wild hare. The Angas
Plains club in South Aus. furnishes a
notable exception. In its bailiwick coursing
is conducted as it should be, and as hares
are plentiful the spectators get plenty of
much needed exercise, as well as the dogs.
The only drawback is the presence of
numerous prickly-pear hedges, which are
rough on the hounds. Coursing of this type
was once in high favor on the Darling
Downs, but seems to have been superseded
by the artificial conditions of the plumpton.
Hunger for gate-money, which cannot be
collected in open country, has been respon-
sible for the change. In addition, Ike
Mcßagg doesn’t bet with, such abandon at
open courses as he does in the enclosures.
* * * *
“Rata”: The standard of bowls has im-
proved in Fiji since good King Thakambau
played the game with the heads of his
enemies. Though a fairly strong contingent
MAURICE McCARTEN, the Maoriland
jockey, who has settled in Sydney and
has had a prosperous season.
was present from the Commonwealth, Fiji
carried off the Pacific pennant, beating Vic-
toria in the final. Butler’s Suva rink de-
feated the South Australians, led by Tom
Lewis, in the rink event, and S. Pickett
an ex-Maoriland and Victorian player now
at Suva, won the final of the singles, collect-
ing a £5O trophy.
* * * *
“Yard On”: All the good country bowlers
don’t go to the Big City for championship
events. A. T. Neil found this out at Armidale
(N.S.W.) when a local Scot, Bob Herron
beat him 31-29. Neil is in the unusual posi-
tion of being champion of N.S.W. but not
of his own club.
* * # *
“Hepete”: Chinese pak-a-pu joints have
a remarkable hold in North Queensland
towns. At Innisfail I joined a motley crew
in a queue from the footpath to a room at
the back of a shop. Two abos. and several
Southern Europeans were prominent, and
Chinese sat round the room. If you risk Is.
JACK FORD, of the Waratahs, ranked by
football critics as one of the greatest
Rugby forwards ever seen in Britain.
and mark five of the 10 selected numbers
you get 25.; six winners bring 18s., seven
£7 10s„ eight £42 10s. and nine £B4; 10
break the bank, which is then reconstructed.
The drawing is scrupulously fair, but a resi-
dent confided to me that many of the young
fellows were nearly always broke because
of these dens.
* * * *
“Jacques”: Tell “Minto” (B. 18/7/’2B)
there is no hard-and-fast rule in Australia
regarding hand values in poker. Every school
I have played in made its own rules before
the game began ; it saves a lot of argument.
The most common rule is royal routine, four
cards, routine, full hand, flush, straight,
three cards, two pair, one pair. I have
never heard of a player in Australia being
unable to bet because his hand was unbeat-
able, whatever restrictions may be imposed
in England. To hold the ten, jack, queen,
king and ace of hearts and not be able to
bet would be plain cruelty.
* * * #
“Slide” : The N.S.W. Rowing Association
has had its fiftieth annual meeting, with the
perennial Q. V. Deloitte in the chair. The
report showed that conditions are flourishing ;
membership has increased, and the year
closed with a surplus of £5OO, thanks chiefly
to the King’s Cup regatta at Penrith. Most
of this is likely to be absorbed next season,
when expenses will include the sending of
the State crew to Westralia for the King’s
Cup race. Particular stress is laid on the
necessity for stricter training methods, and
it is to be hoped that the advice will not
fall on deaf ears. In rowing, as in most
other matters, thorough preparation is the
key to success.
* sfS Jfc
“Clarenza”: A blight has fallen on pro-
fessional sculling on. the two N.S.W. rivers
which have hitherto been its greatest nur-
series—the Parramatta and the Clarenee.
Neither of these rivers now has a profes-
sional worthy of being called a sculler. The
Richmond has its Burns, champion of Aus-
tralia ; the Macleay boasts Saul, and
McLaren has brought the Hastings into the
picture. _ A few months ago Burns’s Rich-
mond friends, seeking assistance in Sydney
to send him to England to meet Barry for
the world’s title, met with the excuse' that
Sydney people had never seen him row on
the Parramatta. If they cared to raise
£3OO for a race on the famous river, Burns
and the rest would be only too glad to show
what they can do.
**■ * *
“Shrewsbury” : The list of sporting clashes
between Oxford and Cambridge grows
apace. Not so long ago these were confined
to the boatrace, the Rugby and Association
football games, cricket and the athletic
sports. Tennis, . boxing, fencing, hockey,
rifle-shooting, billiards and golf were gradu-
ally added, each acquiring a “blue” or a
half-blue, or at least official recognition.
The latest is an annual flying match, the
first contest being set down for April next
year. Both universities have now their
own flying fields, with hangars, workshops,
and staffs of mechanics.
THE INKY WAY.
Even the country paper finds that it must
have illustrations these days, and the
Northern Daily Leader, of Tamworth, is
the next in N. S. Wales to instal its own
process plant.
The Commercial Travellers, in connection
with the 24th issue of their Australia To-
Day annual, will run a Children’s Portraits
competition; entries must be 'in by Sep-
tember 25.
Virile Benjamin Hoare was 86 on July
22, and is still going strong. For 32 years
he w.as a brilliant leader writer on the Age,
and before then edited the Geelong Times
and Colac Reformer. He was well into his
literary stride when Adam Lindsay Gordon
and Marcus Clarke came on the shifting
scene.
“S”: G. M. Turnbull (“Tauwarra”), some
of whose Bulletin short stories from Papua
are as good as any that ever came out of
the islands—which is saying a good deal—
is an officer of the Public Works Depart-
ment. He went to Papua from England as
a youngster 15 years ago, and writes and
types in between designing official buildings
and straightening very crooked roads. He
knows the real Papua as very few people
know it, and he can see more humor in it
than any other writer we outcasts know.
“P.X.”: What is a journalist? People
and papers have been describing my old
friend J. O. Fairfax as a great journalist,
and perhaps he was. Must a journalist
necessarily be able to write well? If so,
“J. 0.” wasn’t a journalist, nor was his
father nor his grandfather. Thus far no
Fairfax has been a writer; young Warwick,
J.O.’s only son, promises better than any
hitherto. Yet they have put the S. M.
Herald in the very front rank of Empire
newspapers; steadily onward the Herald
has moved while its competitors have either
fallen by the way or follow afar off. Only
in recent years, so far as I can recall,
did “young Mr. James” connect his name
with anything he published; that was after
he had returned from seeing a little of things
on the war fronts and a lot of things behind
the lines. There was matter in the couple of
columns he wrote ; but how lame and halting
it was ! He suffered from the family weak-
ness of excessive diffidence. He should have
valued himself much more highly, and then
he would have been less swayed by the last
cock-sure friend he met.
“L. 0.”: During the war period a new
paper was started, in Braidwood (N.S.W.),
and an enthusiastic editor found that poet
Harpur was once a resident police magis-
trate there, and often had for his gue'st
Henry Kendall. The question arose whether
the latter ever resided at Araluen, down the
mountain from Braidwood, and the fact that
he' christened his daughter after the mining
place, and also described scenery akin to
that to be found in the celebrated valley,
was taken as distinct evidence that he had
lived there. The matter of “Baby Araluen’s”
last resting-place caused rather a contro-
versy, till at last a greybeard offered to point
out the grave, etc. Accordingly the editor
and party, including myself, made a pilgrim-
age to the picturesque cemetery at the foot of
Bell’s Creek Falls, found the described grave,
tidied it up, and placed several wreaths on
it. Later, in conversation with the late
poet’s wife, then resident at Chapwood
(N.S.W.), it was elicited that “Baby Ara-
luen” was actually buried near Melbourne,
and that it was doubtful if the poet had ever
seen Araluen. Still later we found that
the grave whereon we had bestowed kindly
offices was that of a German, at that time
anathema.
“Abbess”: One of the oldest pressmen in
the world, P. Jeff Wallace, blew out 90
candles on his birthday cake on July 23.
Mr. Wallace, who has launched more news-
papers than any other man in N. S. Wales,
served liis cadetship in the old S. M. Herald
office. His own first proprietary venture was
in ’5B, when he ran the Weekly Times
(North Sydney), published in a portable
office which shifted its site, per wheel, up
and down Blue’s Point-road. His partner
and sub. was Walter E. Lenthall, later an
inspector of police and subsequently in-
heritor of a large estate and pots of money
m England. The type was set up on Blue’s
I oint-road, and carried across to Sydney,
where the paper was printed on Robert
Barr’s platen press—the first machine of
its kind imported to Australia. But the
flourishing little rag met with an untimely
end when Ben Barnett’s rowing boat (a
waterman’s skiff) capsized in the harbor and
buried type and all deep in Port Jackson
mud. Jeff Wallace’s next serious attempt at
running a newspaper was the St. Leonards
Recorder, born in 1877 and afterwards sold
to William Fairfax, a cousin of the S M.
Herald proprietors. Mr. Fairfax died
shortly afterwards, and his son, William
carried on ,the Recorder; but it lived only
about three years. Mr. Wallace still turns
out a bit of verse and other “copy.”


Buy British Bearings
<r
*
8
o
>
r
THE
FITTIMC
BRITISH
BRITISH
BALL4ROLLER
BEARINCf
MEANS
SMOOTHER RUNNING \
GREATER SPEEDS \
LONGER LIFE- and \
THE ELIMINATION of v
BEARING TROUBLES
TO YOUR CAR,.
V
Exclusive Commonwealth
Agents & Distributors:
GARDNER, WAERN
& CO. PTY., LTD.,
MELBOURNE:
481 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY:
225 Clarence Street.
> NEWCASTLE:
Hunter Street West.
TASMANIAN AGENTS—
W. & G. GENDERS PTY., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
ADELAIDE HARDWARE CO., LTD.,
Flinders 'Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS—
EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD.,
Brisbane and Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS —
(Automotive)
-COVENTRY MOTOR CO., LTD., Perth.
(Industrial)
FLOWER, DAVIES & JOHNSON, LTD.,
Perth.
JUST PUBLISHED.
New Revised and Enlarged Edition of
The Greatest Book Ever Offered to the Public!
HENLEY’S TWENTIETH-CENTURY BOOK
OF SECRET
RECIPES, FORMULAS and PROCESSES
Contains over 10,000 practical processes, recipes and formulas, especiaily prepared
for daily use in the home and place of business; it includes thousands of heretofore
unpublished secret methods needed every day in the city home, as a
the farm, in the workshop and factory. The book is in one large volume, is
beautifully printed in large, clear type.
10,000
Trade Secrets
Practical Recipes
Chemical Processes
Scientific Formulas
HOW TO MAKE EVERYTHING
For the Home, the Factory and Workshop.
Antiseptics, Waterproofing, Lubricants, Rust Preventatives, Dyes, Filters, Cleaning
Preparations, Enamelling, Beverages, Inks, Adhesives, Polishes, Disinfectants,
Flavorings, Cosmetics, Ceramics, etc., etc.; bow to make fly-paper; to color flowers
artificially ; to estimate weight of ice by measurement; to make materials i nreprooi;
to work with metals —aluminium, brass, etc.; to make anything and everything from
A to Z.
THIS IS THE BOOK
Everyone who seeks PRACTICAL ACCURATE KNOWLEDGE
and guidance in his everyday work MUST HAVE at his command.
It is a money-maker and a money-saver; it 'appeals to the young as well as to the
old. Great business enterprises owe tlieir success to the manufacture or sale ot
simple inventions or compounds, usually the result of an experiment at home.
Profit by the knowledge that has made others successful. GET THIS BOOK
TO-DAY. Everybody should have a copy for ready reference.
Price 20/-; Postage 1/- extra.
Every Manufacturer —Workshop—Factory
—Laboratory-—Office and Home Worker
will find priceless formulas in this wonderful book formulas which men have
spent a lifetime of toil to perfect. Nothing like it has ever been offered before.
Every formula can be depended upon. It is a priceless book of information which
everyone should possess. One formula alone will more than pay you for the expense <?
the whole book. It tells many trade secrets which hitherto have been impossible
to obtain.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
The Best House for Technical Books,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
‘Every Fanner Can Afford a Martin DitcherV
“I consider the Martin Ditcher
the best farm implement on
earth at the price. I think my
neighbors like it, too, from the
way they borrow it.”—A. D.
KENNEDY.
“The Martin does all you claim
for it, and more. It certainly
is a marvel for ditching.”—
L. LIEBFRIED.
“I have 100 miles of drains to
keep in order, with cattle and
sheep running on them. I am
quite satisfied that the Ditcher
will keep them in better order
than any other kind of delver
that only requires four horses.”
—STEWART D. WEBB, Cheepie,
Queensia nd.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
T. & G. B’l’g, Light Square, Adelaide.
sdf
PRICE
£35
B.K.
BAGSHAW’S
bagshaws
ASTHMA',
POWDER l
ASTHMA POWDER
(2/6 All Chemists)
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Post Free, 2/9, from The Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE ----- BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
asdf
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Make your own money-
saving family remedy for
COUGHS
COLDS, CROUP, BRONCHITIS. INFLUENZA
COSTS 21-
SAVES £’s.
Over 1,000,000 Australian citizens annually
prove that the best remedy for chest and
throat ailments is the money-saving mixture
so easily made by adding sweetened water
to a two-shilling bottle of concentrated
Heenzo. By doing this, you have a supply
equal in quantity and superior in quality to
eight ordinary-sized bottles of the usual
made-up cough mixtures that would cost up
to £l. Over 12,000 users of Heenzo have
written letters saying they have proved it
equally good for children and adults, and
expressing delight at the speedy way it
soothes sore throats, eases the chest, and
banishes coughs, colds, influenza, croup,
bronchitis and whooping cough.
Miss GLADYS MONCRIEFF writes:
“Heenzo is a blessing to those who suffer
jrom chest and throat ailments. It preserves
the voice, and quickly overcomes the dis-
tressing effects ol a cold.’’
m
Miss GLADYS MON CRIEFF.
#
V M
should be used in every home .


Choose the Engagement Ring
24,836 —Large
Double Cluster, 16
Choice Diamonds,
18ct. Gold and
Platinum Settings,
£25.
24,830 —Large
Cluster, with 9
Fine Diamonds,
18ct. Gold and
Platinum Settings,
£2O.
24,842 —Choice
Ring, with 12 Fine
Diamonds, 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Settings,
£27.
•24,849 —All Plati-
num Cluster, with
Diamond-set Shoul-
ders, set with Fine
Quality Brilliant
Diamonds, from
£4O.
at Catanachs
“MELBOURNE’S LEADING DIAMOND HOUSE.”
Catanach’s Displays include the very latest designs and settings in
Diamond Engagement Rings. Each Ring is a masterpiece of craftsman-
ship, is set with choicest Diamonds, and carries CATANACH’S
WRITTEN GUARANTEE. Call and see them, or write for Diamond
Ring Catalog.
Corner ROYAL ARCADE & LITTLE
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
W-McF.
24,853 —Dainty
6-Stone King, 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Setting, set with
Fine Double-cut
Brilliant Diamonds,
from
£ 12/10/-
24,826—4 Fine
Diamonds, 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Settings,
£25.
24,851— A1l Plati-
num Solitaire Ring,
set with Fine
Brilliant Diamond,
from
24,839 —Fashion-
able 7-Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold
and Platinum Set-
tings,
Melbourne
Chatter
Embroidery designs of a new and startling
sort are likely to make their appearance any
day upon frocks and sports suits. A local
manufacturer has purchased machines that
are said to be turning out the most extra-
ordinary designs—mostly resembling movie
posters, illustrating scenic views and
dramatic situations. We have become quite
accustomed to seeing replicas of the Eiffel
lower, famous aeroplanes and motor-cars on
the front areas of jumpers, or careering
around the hems of skirts, but stories of
romantic passion pictured in crewel silk will
add a new interest to attire. The advertis-
ing possibilities of the innovation, if it
catches on, will doubtless be exploited at an
early date.
The final flutter of the two years’ civic
reign of Mayor Morell and his extremely
popular Mayoress was a ball at the Town
Hall last week at which 3000 citizens
mingled. The new hall doesn't lend itself to
decoration, the mural panels being sufficient
adornment. A festive air, however, was im-
parted by groupings of foliage plants on the
lloor, and the platform on which the band
was stationed was surrounded by a grove of
red poinsettias, ferns and palms. Orchids
fringed the official dais. Naval, military and
air force uniforms, the robes of office of civic
dignitaries, and a great display of glitter-
ing feminine attire made the scene a bril-
liant one. The State Governor came with
Lady Somers, whose simple gown of moss-
green georgette, which featured tucking and
pointed panels, made a nice background for a
presentation bouquet of orchids and roses.
Mayoress Morell wore a beautiful trained robe
of shot gold and blue lame, with drapery
of dew-drop sprinkled net. Daughter Sheila’s
silver-beaded lace frock showed a gleam of
rainbow tints beneath. In the v.-r. party
were Irvine, 0.J., and his lady, she ir black
velvet.
There was so much scintillation on the
general run of frocks that untrimmed ninons
and georgettes were conspicuous. Remark-
able among these was a dead black gown
which dangled a garden of white flowers
from the left shoulder-strap. Rear-Admiral
Napier accompanied his wife, whose covering
was of pale primrose brocade. Dr. Telford,
of Ballarat, was there with his wife, who
wore a rose-and-silver lace frock. Mrs.
Harry Sargood introduced a fresh note with
a rust-colored lace gown. Mrs. Robert Knox
gave a dash of color to a buff-toned gown
with a fan of shaded wine-hued feathers.
James Elder and his lady, Sir John Salmond,
the Mitchell knight and his lady, Mr. and
Mrs. Lort Smith and General Chauvej and
his lady, she in white traced with silver
sequins, were dancers. Among girls who took
the eye -were Judy Finch, whose black-
flounced frock had edgings of silver; Nancy
Jones, a naiad in leaf-green spotted
net; Molly Langford, who wore a frock of
russet-red tone, and Kath Currie, in silver
lace with a touch of pink.
Twenty-eight debutantes wearing the
daintiest of white frocks and carrying pink
posies made their plunge into society at
the ball of the Old Paradians’ Association
at St. Kilda Town Hall one evening last
week. With their partners the young
people made curtsey to the president, P. A.
Matthews, and to Mrs. Matthews, whose
flame-lined gown glimmered with crystal.
Accompanied by heralds Tom Foley and
Chris Dwyer, a set of lancers was danced
under the watchful eye of Mrs. J. A. Gor-
man, whose white gown was traced with
black and silver beads. Between six and
seven hundred jazzed beneath decorations
that blended the' college’s green and purple.
Mrs. P. Lucini, in a gown of champagne
tinted lace, had with her Mrs. Janies
McDonald, in black and crystal beaded gown,
and Mr. and Mrs. A. Wickham. Mrs. Prowse
was there with her daughters Leonie,
Wilma and Nell. Kindred associations
were well represented at the hop, which was
engineered bv old boys of the Christian
Brothers’ College of Victoria-parade, East
Melbourne.
The spacious lounge of Cliveden Mansions
clothed itself with the beauty of an old-
fashioned garden on Friday afternoon, and
though the blooms were mostly paper, the
roses, camellias and hollyhocks interspersed
with gaily-colored Japanese parasols, made
a charming show. Miss Effie Ball devised
this floral setting for the display of numer-
ous dolls, which she had collected to help the
Children’s Hospital. Instead of the usual
raffle tickets, numbered flowers were ex-
changed for a small coin. Sweets and real
flowers were also on sale, and in the dining-
room there was tea with a musical pro-
gramme arranged by Eileen Castles and her
sister Mrs. Finn. Walter Kirby, Hamilton
Bateman, Mrs. G. Haines, Mi’s. Ed. Dyson,
E. Bcachcroft and J. Hobbs were amongst
those who entertained the party. Miss Ball
had the assistance in the sales department
of Mrs. W. Rogers Thomson, Mrs. Russeli
Jackson, Mrs. McCallum Neil and several
auxiliary members. A dance in the evening
was a sequel to the afternoon enterprise. It
was intended to hold it in Miss Ball’s flat
at Cliveden, but at the eleventh hour a
shift was made to Bibron’s. The organiser’s
black velvet wrap was patterned with gold
roses over a black and silver lace gown. Edna
Tabart was in black velvet and her sister
Pixie wore pale green traced with crystal.
The dancers were mostly of the younger
circle. Nancy Falkiner chose black georgette,
Winnie Peardon was a cheery contrast in
cherry-red nihon: Theo -Synie featured a
flounced frock of black spotted net: and
Girlie Warburton and Sylvia Knox Knight
were also subduedly clad in black.
The old boys and girls of the Presbyterian
Ladies’ College had their annual dance at
the Town Hall on Thursday night. Doris
Moore, whose frock of deep cream georgette
had a glistening tabbed skirt, was lion, sec.,
and Bernice Swaine,' who danced in black
and gold, held the purse. Mrs. T. J. Kenny,
in a lilac mauve gown with a sparkling
hemline, marshalled 15 debutantes, who car-
ried, instead of the conventional posies,
dainty silver-tissue muffs on which rested
pink roses. Their gowns were white and
fluffy. The president of the association, Mrs.
J. P. Bainbridge, in jet-sequined black: Mrs.
T. PurveS, one of the pillars of the P.L.C.
Club, in black lace; Mrs. Ben Richards,
Miss J. Paterson and Mi', and Mrs. T. 11.
Moss joined in the dance.
The Old Lauristonians’ Association had a
dance at No. 9 one night last week, when there
was a muster of about 200 members and
friends. President Nona Bowden danced in
pink and gold-flecked lace draperies, and Amy
Syme, who secretaried the hop, was in pink
taffeta embellished with gold lace. The princi-
pals of the school, the Misses Irving, were
guests of honor, and received posies.
There was a jazz at. 3LO headquarters
last week to spin a little money for Queen
Victoria Hospital. The guests circled to
the music of the studio orchestra, and listened
between dances to other items that were
being cast upon the air. Mrs. Clarence
Weber, Mrs. W. M. Robins and Mrs. Felix
Lloyd were the organisers. Mayoress Morell
was there in a gown that softly radiated
in silvery folds, and with her came daughter
Sheila. Mrs. Percy Berry was one of the
many women who favored black gowns. Mrs.
William Nunn enlivened her frock with gold-
thread embroideries and fur-bordering.
Powder blue with silver embellishment was
worn by Mrs. R. Fletcher. There was a
brave display of handsome wraps, for the
night was bitterly cold.
Pictured here by Rembrandt is Kathleen
McCubbin, a daughter of the late National
Gallery artist who gave their training to
many of Melbourne’s leading painters of
the present
g e n e ration.
Miss McCub-
bin has been
selected by the
brush and pal-
ette brigade as
their represen-
tative in the
Princess of
Music Pageant
which has been
organised to
help the en-
dowment of a
permanent
orchestra in
this city. Like
the rest of her
family, she has
artistic lean-
ings, and was
a student at
the Gallery. A
dance to aid
this candidate’s nomination, organised by
Mrs. Ed. Dyson and a small committee, will
be held at Bibron’s to-morrow.
Geelong's Waterloo Cup meeting didn't
produce much evidence that womenfolk like
going to the dogs. They were in a small
minority while the greyhounds chased the
hares. But at gee-gee races that helped to fill
out the week there was a good feminine
muster, though the day was cold and the
wind blew bitterly. President Vincent, of
the G.R.C., and his wife, passed teacups
around at four o’clock. The Western Dis-
trict representation included the Ormond
Fosters, of Maffra; Mrs. J. Iv. Russell and
June Russell, of Wingeel; the W. Napthines,
whose home is Terango; and the Roger Nap-
thines, of Ilighton.
The blue-eyed, fair-haired Swedish maid
who on the 9th of this month will become
Mrs. Percy Grainger looks out of this
window. She
is Ella Viola
Strom, well
known in h e r
own country
as a poetess
and painter.
She captured
ou r pianist-
compose r’s
a ff ections
when they
were fellow
passengers on
the Aoraiigi
over a year
ago. The wed-
ding will take
place in Los
Angeles, and a
tour of Europe,
incl uding a
trip to Ice-
land. will fill
the first year
of their married life. The Brootliorn studio
made this picture when Miss Strom spent
a few days in Melbourne last month before
embarking for America.
The Hospital Ball at the Palais Royal
was the chief jazz of the doggy festival, and
the committee, which had Mrs. J. F. Guthrie
as president and C. 11. Birdseye doing the
secretarial chores, had reason to feel proud
of itself. Everybody had a good time.
Mayor Walls brought his daughter, arrayed
in blue. A strong representation of medicoes
and their families had in its forefront the
Darbys, Elvins and E. H. Chapmans. The
Stanley McMillans, of Inverleigh, and others
gave the hop a squattocratic flavor, and Mel-
bourne sent along some of its very smartest
people.
Committee members of the Mooncc Valley
Racing Club proudly introduced fair punters
on Saturday to a kindly thought for their
comfort in the form of a new tea-
room where tables can be reserved for
private parties. It is located under the big
stand, and its doors open upon the lawn.
It presented a cheery appearance with its
Chinese matting, black-and-white crockery
and vases of Iceland poppies, all well
illumined by arc lights. The course was
looking beautiful, though the garden beds
contained nothing save a stray rose or two.
Everything was wonderfully green, and
out where the members park their cars
the wattle-trees had hoisted their golden
panoply. It was warm and bright on the
lawns, but the women have little faith in
the fidelity of winter sunshine, and
there was a big sprinkling of furs in
the throng. Mrs. Ivan Gutmann’s squir-
rel coat, worn with a wine-colored hat and
frock, looked .exceptionally smart. Mrs. W.
Rogers Thomson supplemented a frock of
black satin with stonemarten furs and felt
millinery. Mrs. E. 0. Rhodes, who was
with her mother, Mrs. Murray Morton, was
among those who favored well-cut tweeds.
Evelyn Moore, from Sydney, was in a sports
suit of velvet and cloth of holly-red tone
topped by a hat of the same cherry hue.
The Cussen lady; Mrs. Norman Falkiner
fur-wrapped; Alderman and Mrs. Crespin
and their daughter. Mrs. Parker, from Syd-
ney ; Mr. and Mrs. J. G. Purves, and
Mrs. Jowett, whose hlack velvet coat
with fur additions evoked approving
glances, were a few of those who
promenaded the lawn.
A very jazzy production is “Hit the
Deck,” which replaced “The Girl Friend”
at His Majesty’s on Saturday night. Inci-
dentally, the drapery above a brand-new
green velvet drop curtain hit the deck at
the end of the first act, and there was
further concussion when a back-cloth parted
company with its roller. The nautical
flavor is imparted most heavily in the
first act by chorus ladies, who caper about
in a stage version of cream yachting frocks,
and a last memory is of elaborate trackings
in yellow and orange shaded by large, up-
turned crinoline hats. The tall, soulful-eyed
Zillah Carter sports an ivory cloth gown
which has a sunburst —or should it be. a
cloudburst? —of black velvet at the waist-
line. A cartwheel black hat with a white
rose on the under-side of the brim serves as
top rigging. May Beatty, as a colored lady
who has no fear of color, manages to look
as attractive as ever in jade blue floral-
patterned sarong, supporting a huge bow of
pink, yellow and blue with a feather boa
and plumed millinery. The frocks of Annie
Croft, Rowena Ronald and lesser ladies of
the cast are strikingly pretty. It was after
11 when the. curtain fell on a stage crowded
out with floral gifts. The full house, the
feminine components of which were mostly
fur-coated, included William Mcßeatli and
his lady, Mr. and Mrs. W. N. Robins, Mrs.
Charles Tait, Mr. an|d Mrs. Merson
Cooper, Mrs. R. Fiteher and the Philip
Nunns.
Officers of the 59th Battalion, headed by
their mess president, Major J. O. Brown,
mobilised recruits for a jazz at the Rex ope
night last week, and the list of deserters
was a blank. The plan of campaign was
in the hands of a G.H.Q. staff advised by
Captain Litchfield as lion. sec. Colonel Jack-
son, C.O. of the battalion, and his wife
were amongst those who answered the roll-
call, she in a silver-bead-embroidered black
robe. Brigadier-Generals Elliott and Brand,
with their wives, were among the dancers,
Mrs. Brand in a shimmery array of silver
and pink, and there were whole rafts of other
officers', from colonels down to second-
lieutenants, with their womenfolk.
Lady Somers found herself in the heart
of kindergartenism one afternoon last week
when she visited the F.K.U.’s Training
College to take the chair at the annual
summing-up. It was disclosed that there
are now in all 28 free schools affiliated
with the union, with a total enrolment of
2196 youngsters. There’s a demand for an
extension of the work, but considerations
of finance have put in a full stop. There
were speeches from Miss Rosner (who came
from Bananaland’s capital to take charge oi
the Training Collegel during the absence
abroad of Miss Gutteridge), Prof. Y\ oodruff,
Dr. Vera Scantlebury and others. Dr.
Seantlebury made a jab at the national con-
science by announcing that 40 per cent, of
the kiddies attending classes are badly fed
and ill-nourished. Mayoress Morell and
Mrs T. A’Beckett, president of the union,
spoke of what had been accomplished and
the necessity for more such havens for these
wee children of the badly off.
A visitor from England' who was at the
51st: annual meeting in connection with the
Foundling Homes at East Melbourne and
Beaeonsfield was astounded at the comfort
and care given the children. These healthy-
looking babies clad in beautifully-made
woollies caused her to contrast these insti-
tutions most favorably with similar places in
the old Dart. “This certainly is God s
Country,” she cheerfully remarked. Lady
Somers presided over tile annual tallying.
It was recorded that 153 waifs had been
taken in during the year. The generosity
of Mrs. Ham, of the Wattle Tea rendezvous,
in handing over her establishment with
refreshments, for dancing and bridge one
evening, resulted in £6OO being added to the
homes’ banking account, and Mrs. Ham and
her two sons were elected life governors m
acknowledgment. A cabaret held at George s
by the proprietors added another £lG> to
the war chest. Mrs. Montague Cohen is
president of the committee, with Margaret
Roth as hon. sec. The wee inmates were
inspected prior to the serving of four o’clock
tea.
At the Cahill-Brooke recital in Londoir
which was held on June 14 at the home O'
Mrs. Alfred C. Bossom, No. 5 Carlton Gar-
dens, many Australians were present, among
them Ada Crossley, Mrs. Eastwood, of Clive-
den Mansions of this city, Nellie Veitch
and Mrs. Armstrong from Neutral Bay (Syd-
ney). Lady 8 trad broke also listened to the
concert, which was to have been preceded
by a garden party, but rain set in and the
tea had to be distributed indoors. George
Brooke’s singing of Alfred Hill's Maori song
“Waiata Poi” was the star item.
Though overseas, Mrs. Jimmy Dyer stil!
retains her interest in local musical matters,
ghe has just offered to defray the expenses
of two concerts to bo arranged by the British
Music Society. The programmes, which will
be drawn from works of ancient and modern
Italian composers, are being selected by the
enthusiast herself, and she is forwarding the
music. A coterie of old friends celebrated
Mrs. Dyer’s birthday recently by having a
party and drinking her health and sending
her a cable of congratulation.
The Elsa Warman fund will benefit by
over £26 as a result of the concert given
on Saturday night at Granada, the St.
Ivilda home of Mr. and Mrs. John Meadows.
Lilian Stott, Betty and Esther Paterson,
William Davies, Tom Lloyd, George Cun-
ningham and Charles Nightingall sang.
Gertrude Healy violined, and Rita Fleming
monologued. Ililda Meadows, whose black
frock had embroidery of pink beads, made a
very satisfactory accompanist.
“A.G.M.’s” note from London :
Lord Castlerosse, son of the A.D.C. of that name
who was such a gay member of Governor Loch’s
Melbourne suite, has surprised society and staggered
his parents by his secret marriage to Doris Dela-
vigne, well known in the night clubs and smart
restaurants of London, Paris and Monte Carlo. She
has had previous hosts of admirers, including an
American millionaire and Lord Northesk, also the
son of a Melbourne A.D.C. Night club favorites are
at the moment immensely popular with the peerage.
While Mrs. Kate Merrick, the well-known director
of several of these hectic establishments, is awaiting
another appearance in the police courts, her daughter,
Lady de Clifford, has given birth to a son who will
be the twenty-seventh holder of this very ancient
and distinguished barony. Another of the volatile
Mrs. Merrick’s daughters was married on Derby Day
to the Earl of Kinnoull. Every one of these little
affairs is another tack in the coffin of the House of
Lords.


SILVER mhf OJPS
SOLID
MACE AND SPOMTS
TMOPHIES
sdf
No. 7695.
olid Silver Miniature Two-
ancllc Cup, with ebotiised
1 inth. Height, without
plinth, 4| in. £4/4/-
Wm. Drummond & Co. ’s
Workshop is equipped
to manufacture special
designs in either Gold or
Silver.
No. 4906.
Silver Two-handle Cup o(
chaste design, on ebonised
plinth. Height, without
plinth, 4| in. X3/J/-
dsf
No. 4862.
Sterling Silver Two-handle
Cup, will) model of golfer,
ou ehonisrd plinth.
Height, without plinth—
inches - £7/10/-
10| v - £9
11.1 „ . £lO. lO/-
12,; ~ - £l3/10/-
int
II
• & '/
No. 2616.
, Solid Silver Golf Stick Cup,
on plinth. Height,
exclusive ol plinth, 4\ in.
Liberal concessions will
be extended to all Golf
Clubs and Presentation
Committees.
No 4884.
Solid Silver Two-handle
Cup, surmounted with
model of golfer or tennis
player. Height, without
plinth, 64 in. C 7.
i TTENTION is invited to the fact that the tirni possesses the best facilities in Australia
/l for submitting to the inspection of Golf and other Sporting Clubs appropriate Trophies
I \ and Cups for presentation purposes. Miniature Cups in Sterling Silver range in price
I \ from £2 upward. In addition to these a wide range of larger Cups, also in Sterling Silver,
L \ and of newest shapes, is available. These are all of the very finest manufaentre. made
X JLby the best london Silversmiths. The firm allows a special discount to Clubs.
WM DRUMMOND 6 CO
344-346 COLLIMS ST MELBOUHME
dsf
A. Saunders
Grandfather
“CHIME”
CLOCKS
MISSION OAK CASES.
Solid Brass Movements, Silvered
Dials, Bevelled Plateglass Doors,
Three - quarter “Westminster”
Chimes, “Litchfield” Strike at the
Hours—
£lB/10/-, £2l, £25, £3O.
Inlaid Mahogany Case, £35.
Full “Westminster” Chimes—
£2s, £3O, £35, £45, £5O.
With “Whittington” and “West-
minster” Combination Chimes,
Handsomely Designed Carved
Oak Cases, Massive Burnished
Brass Weights and Pendulum—
£3s, £45, £55, £65, £75.
MANTEL CHIMING CLOCKS.
Solid Oak Case, Three-quarter
“Westminster” Chimes, £B/10/-.
Full “Westminster”—
£lO/10/-, £l2/10/-
Mahogany Case, Three-quarter
“Westminster” Chimes—
£B/10/-, £lO/10/-
Full “Westminster,” £l5.
CALL AND SEE THE LARGEST
DISPLAY OF CLOCKS IN
AUSTRALASIA.
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER,
805-813 GEORGE STREET
(Opp. Railway Station),
SYDNEY.
THE CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1879.
1927 SURPLUS.
Subjoined is some interesting correspondence which will repay perusal. It is extracted from the
Commercial Columns of the "Sydney Morning Herald.”
(a) From the “Herald” of 26/6 ? 28.
(b) A letter from an old Policy-holder of the Society
to the “Herald,” 286/’2B.
(c) Reply by the Society’s Actuary, Mr. Diamond,
under date 29 6 ’2B.
(d) The Policy-holder’s reply, dated 2/7/’2B.
(a) CITY MUTUAL LIFE SURPLUS.
As a result of his actuarial investigation
of the liabilities of the City Mutual Life
Assurance Society, as at December 31 last,
Mr. G. F. Diamond, A.1.A., the actuary of
the society, reports that there is a surplus
of £501,000 available for distribution. The
income for the'year was £578,800. Valuation
was based on the assumption, the' actuary
reports, that the future earning power of
the society on its runds of £4,414,000 would
be 34 per cent., and the net premium method
was "adopted. The cost of the bonus on the
same scale as was provided for in the pre-
vious year, he stated, was £259,000. There
if thus a surplus to be carried over to the
current year of £242,000, and the directors
are considering the best method of dealing
with it. A suggestion has been made to
include free hospital and medical benefits.
A second suggestion is that the bonuses
shall be still further increased. The view of
the chairman, Mr. George Crowley, is that
the City Mutual should still further reduce
its valuation rate, and adopt a 3 per cent,
standard in spite of the fact that he con-
siders interest rates do not seem likely to
come down to 3| per cent., or anything like
it. for many years to come. It is probable
that the directors will take a referendum of
the policy-holders on the subject.
(b) CITY MUTUAL LIFE SURPLUS.
Mr. O. J. Ryan writes:—
gj r? j r ead your article in yesterday’s
columns, and in connection with the proposed
referendum to the policy-holders, I as a
member of 35 years’ standing, suggest a
proposition which so far as I can see has
never yet been attempted in the world’s life
assurance experience.
It is well known that the new business of
a life assurance society is always expensive,
and I venture to suggest to the directors of
this 50-year-old Sydney institution that it
might be worth while closing down on new
business altogether, in which case the bon-
uses to tin* policy-holders would each year
become materially increased.
A surplus of over half a million of money
for one year indicates surely that the pre-
miums charged by Australian offices are too
high, and that after dividing <i quarter of a
million in the payment of the handsome
bonus which we have already received, there
is a surplus of almost as much again, it
does seem to me that the premiums could be
reduced by 50 per cent, and still leave a very
handsome margin for future profits.
But if the society shut down on new busi-
ness. a very considerable saving of expenses
would be incurred, and even if it did not
shut down altogether on new business, but
only accepted the business which came direct
to it, there would then be a large margin
of profit for the existing policy-holders.
Some years ago, it may be remembered,
the Mutual Life of Australia and the Aus-
tralian Widows’ Funds closed down on new
business, and transferred its liabilities to
another Australian office, with the result
that the bonuses were trebled and quad-
rupled.
It seems to me there are altogether too
many life offices in Australia, all clamoring
for new-business, and some of them paying
for that new business a rate totally dis-
proportionate for the value received.
(c) CITY MUTUAL LIFE SURPLUS.
Mr. G. F. Diamond, A.1.A., actuary of
the City Mutual Life Office, writes: —
Sir, —Mr. O. J. Ryan is quite correct so
far as he goes. Undoubtedly the bonuses
would be doubled and possibly trebled if
no new business were written. It means,
however, the gradual decay of any life as-
surance institution to cease writing new
business altogether; that must be obvious
to every thinking man. But surely it would
be an absolute negation of the altruistic
principles which permeated the minds of the
founders of these great mutual life offices
half a century ago to now deny, or even
limit, the benefits of participation to new
aspirants.
Were the City Mutual a proprietary office
with shareholders who refused participation
in the profits to the policy-holders, then,
indeed, the society would be a veritable gold-
mine for the shareholders in question. But
the City Mutual, and most of the other great
mutual offices of Australia, are so constituted
that the policy-holders, and the policy-holders
only, receive the benefits.
Mr. Ryan speaks about the reduction of
the rates of premium by one-half, but is it
not the same thing practically? If we
assume that lie was 25 when he affected this
policy he would have paid a premium on
£lOOO whole life-policy of £l9 10s., and is
now receiving a bonus for 1927 of £47 10s.,
or, if he had assured under endowment
assurance to draw at 65, he would have paid
a premium of £24 6s. Bd., and is now receiving
a bonus for 1927 of £45, so that he, and
those associated with him, surely have no
cause for serious complaint.
(d) CITY MUTUAL LIFE SURPLUS.
Mr. O. .1. Ryan replies:—
Sir, —Mr. Diamond's exalted altruistic
view of the sacredness of life assurance is—l
have no doubt of it—actuarial orthodoxy, but
otherwise it cuts no ice with us early labor-
ers in the vineyard.
The City Mutual actuary and the actuaries
of the other big mutual life offices put in
a special plea all the time for those who will
come after us. Rubbish.
What have we got to do with posterity?
Posterity has not helped in any way to build
up these big mutual life offices. We who
have saved and slaved for 30 years and more
are surely entitled to the first consideration.
Supposing matters had turned out differently,
and interest rates had fallen, our bonuses
would then have beeh much less than they
are, but we would have shed no tears over
it, and would not have asked others to bear
our burden.
And now—reading over the article again
—I see that, not satisfied with the abnor-
mally low valuation rate assumed by the
society, 81 per cent., the ridiculously con-
servative estimate which is now suggested
by the chairman of the company is to cut
the rate down to 3 per cent. A glance at the
balance-sheet of the society shows reserves
here, contingency funds there, assets written
down everywhere, and on top of it all this
last suggestion of a further reduction of the
society’s actuarial liabilities to 3 per cent,
is the limit.
I consider it monstrous, and I think it is
high time that the old policy-holders of this
society and its big brother, the Australian
Mutual Provident Society, should wake up
to the issue.


Under
Royal
Warrant
sdf
ToH.NL
GeorgeV
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
CHeslleidsiedij
mmwmm .
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY. g
CHAMPACHt,
Q»arleslleidsieov
Reims
PELLI3SON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WONDERFUL BODY BUILDER
sdf
MY ADVICE
TO YOU !
TAKE
RELIEVES
EXHAUSTION
ABi
AB
ss MsterTc®!? &
TRADE MARI?
REGISTERED/
BUILDS UP
THE SYSTEM
AFTER ILLNESS.
ULU
TONIC WINE
Obtainable everywhere throughout Australia—
CHEMISTS, LICENSED GROCERS, HOTELS, etc.
Suppliers for N.S.W. and Q’land: McLaughlin & Co., Ltd., Corner Sussex and Hay'streets Sydney.
„ „ West Australia Distillers Agency, Ltd., Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
Tasmania j Irvine & McEaohern, Brisbane Street, Launceston.
t Ferguson & Co., Murray Street, Hobart.
Sole Proprietors: ARNOLD BROS., A.B. Building, 527-529 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Where Perfect Cuisine, Beautiful
Surroundings and the Spirit of
Revelry Combine to Make a
Memorable Evening’s Enjoyment
Come Soon :: Come To-night.
You’ll be glad you came.
MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY,
THURSDAY, FRIDAY.
DINNER DE LUXE. 7.30 12/6
SUPPER, from 10 o’clock 8/6
SATURDAY-
LATE NIGHT OF DISTINCTION.
A Superb Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
Special Supper, 10 o’clock .. 12/6
True Relaxation, Substituting Joy and Delight,
DELIGHTFUL TEA DANSANT, WITH
SPARKLING CABARET,
3 to 5, 4/-; 6‘up, 3/6.
Saturday, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Ordcr Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
WOMAN'S
LETTER
KAYSER
SILK
GLOVES
John Brownlee’s voice in “Thais” recalled
Chesterton’s line, “Red lights gleaming on
the yellow copper drums,” so full it was
of gongs and throbbing alarums. As tlm
young monk who led the erring Thais back,
and all but lost his own soul in transit,
he was magnificent. And what a sinner to
save was Scavizzi—positively soul-wrecking
in tlie middle act in chiffons the green of
early leaves in spring, and flashing with
gold and jewels as might a still pool flecked
with sunlight! The sleeves of this gown
were wide and loose and fell back as the
singer’s beautiful arms and hands expressed
the whole drama of a great soul resisting,
and then succumbing to, the call of grace.
Repentant, Thais does not wear sackcloth
and ashes, but a robe and cloak of mauvey-
blue, the hue of jacaranda in the twilight.
On her first entry she wore an advance
model of the day (200 A.n.) —gold opening
over blue georgettes; the blue that, is seen
in old Chinese embroideries.
Members of the company filled the man-
agement box and almost fell out in tlieir
enthusiasm. John Brownlee’s sister was at
the back of the circle with the pretty
Danieli, who alternates Nedda with Rettore.
One wonders what she thought of the society
flapper who, visiting friends near by, voiced
her grievance that the opera was so heavy.
“It’s billed as a lyric comedy.” she com-
plained. “1 thought it was going to be
something amusing!”
Y\ hat a delightful barber Figaro must
have been ! The only wonder is that bobbing
and shingling didn’t become the craze when
lie snipped his shears in old Seville. What
a. discreet go-between! And what an in-
spiration to some clever fellow to start a
matrimonial agency in the shape of a ladies’
hairdressing and gent.’s ditto, side by side!
The inimitable Toti, her plump little feet,
as round as a crocus in red shoes, her plump
little person like a full-blown bloom in rose-
red chiffons that rioted to a border of gay
tulips appliqued in velvet of deeper red,
was the Rosina who sang and laughed her
way out of the snares that amorous old
age had set to catch the twinkling feet in
that high old mellow room set about with
plants in little red pots. Her betrothed
Dim an to was the Count Almaviva, and very
rieji and rare he looked in liis Cavalier hat
with its sweeping plumes and his golden
velvets. Scavizzi and Granforte sat in a
box with John Brownlee and his sister.
Ivy Shilling, too, was one of the night’s
pointed outs, as were the wives of Mosco-
vitch and Nat Madison. Melba was looked
for but didn’t come—small blame to her!
Sydney's best-dressed were under the
weather, too. The all-pervasive deluge had
proved too much even for our Darling Point
nobility—they were undistinguishable in
muffledupti.
Australia will shortly see the last of a
man who will be remembered with affection
b. hundreds of old students and who did
much for education in .\. S. Wales during
Bis 36 years’ tenure of the philosophy chair
at Sydney University. Emeritus Professor
Francis Anderson, studied for the Presby-
terian ministry in Scotland, but metaphysical
speculation led him away from the kirk. For
a while he filled the Unitarian pulpit in
Melbourne before his Sydney appointment in
1830. Physically the reverse of impressive,
with a manner precise and formal to the
Point of stiffness, he hid beneath a frigid
exterior a fire of enthusiasm for his subject
and that faculty of inspiring students which
is the real test of the teacher. Philosophy,
in his hands, was broadened and related to
human affairs—for example, as a basis of
true educational method.
It was Professor Anderson who aroused
the Carruthers Government from the general
attitude of complacent satisfaction with the
old regime of public education, which had
become petrified. This led to the departure
of G. H. Ivnibbs and the late J. \Y. Turner
as Education Commissioners to study sys-
tems abroad, and ultimately to immense
reforms and the establishment of the present
high school and technical system. Inci-
dentally, this piece of work first brought G.
H. Knibbs into the public eye. In all his
endeavors, the professor had the help of
the fine brain of Mrs. Maybanke Anderson,
one of Australia’s distinguished women who
died in France last year.
Professor Anderson has sold his house at
Hunter’s Hill to R. S. Wallace, who lately
came from Melbourne to become vice-chan-
cellor, and has packed up his beloved books
in preparation for departure on August 21
by the Dutch liner Nieuw Holland, and so to
England. lie proposes to settle down among
the dons of Oxford, where he has many
friends.
On Friday, after sloshing across the quay,
while the rain slapped cheeks and nose and
drove the uttermost grain of powder in hurry-
ing rivulets down to the tops of gloomy
goloshes, this Letter found at 214 George-
street the glad tidings that spring is just
around the corner. The harbinger was no
sweet breath of herb or juicy shoot, but a
card from- the Royal Art Society for its
opening on Saturday next.
A week-end visit to Allan Wilkie —who,
inspired by the Newtown success, is to visit-
several other suburbs, starting with Bondi
Junction—found a matinee-liouse crowded
with women who applauded with enthusiasm
“The Taming of the Shrew.” That feminine
crowd’s appreciation of the ultimately obedi-
ent Katharina seemed to need explanation ;
the key was supplied by the chatter of two
girls, who, accompanied by a woman, obvi-
ously their mother, were in the crowd which
filed out at the conclusion. “Pity we couldn’t
get Tom’s wife to see it,” said one of the
girls. “Yes, it would do her good,” said the
•'filer woman. Then it all became plain—the
applauding women were mostly there in the
capacity of mothers- and sisters-in-law.
Nobody is giving parties of any dimen-
sions, and it is left to tin; college dance to
keep the white lights blazing in the Went-
worth and the Ambassadors. There has
been quite a run of these frivols, two of the
gayest being those' of St. Aloysius Old Boys
and Fort-street Old Girls. At the latter a
memory of the d'ays when the Rocks were
a sort of military outpost surrounded the
decorations of one table. It was the one pre-
sided over by Maisie Golding, president of
the union, and in the middle of it stood a
white fort complete even to standard-bearer.
From the balcony hung the school flag, and
it was under its folds that the official table
was set. Mollie Thornhill and Glyn Stayte
were the secretaries and the takings will
be divided between the Rachel Forster hos-
pital and the school’s funds.
Four and twenty blackbirds were baked
in a pie. And Sargents had a hand in the
dish. To their dance last week went a
flight of black and white birds, magpies to
be exact, and to these fell a first prize.
Several city hospitals will run a bit more
easily as a result of the gathering at the
Moore Park Palais; among them the Hos-
pital for Children, Sydney Hospital and
Prince Alfred’s, not forgetting the two in-
stitutions where the State’s newest citizens
are officially welcomed —the Royal Hospital
for Women and Crown-street. Over two
thousand employees and friends of the big-
catering firm helped to make the party; and
the pageant arranged by the girls of the
seventeen branches was pretty and original,
flowers and birds being its theme. The
palms for the night’s success were handed
to W. 11. McGill, president of the committee,
and Mrs. E. McLoughlin, J. McHugh and
Miss N. Mackieson.
Among the Birthday honors an M.B.E
(Civil) went to Mrs. Martha Isabel Garvice,
Senior Lady Medical Officer, Egyptian Minis-
try of Education. In Sydney the lady was
better known
as Dr. Isabel
Ormiston; and
a picture of
her is along-
side. As Isa-
bel Ormiston
she was a bril-
liant graduate
a f Sydney
Uni. and was
for a time re-
sident medical
officer of the
Brisbane kid
dies’ hospital.
Later she was
medical inspec-
tor of schools
in Tasmania.
On leave in
England when
war broke out,
she volunteered
for active ser-
vice, and was finally decorated for her work
in Antwerp and Brussels by King Albert
of Belgium. Then Cairo knew her as medi-
cal inspector of schools; and in Cairo she
met and married Major Chudleigh Garvice
(a son of the Charles Garvice), Command-
ant at Alexandria. After a year of married
life the Major died, and Dr. Isabel is now
back in Cairo again as head of the organisa-
tion which medically inspects Gyppo junior.
The rafters of the Ambassadors, not to
speak of its lustres, shook again on a night
last week when the Old Boys of St. Aloysius
roared forth their battle song. The collec-
tion will pay off another instalment of the
debt on the school's memorial playing fields;
and the committee of wives and sisters of
ex-students had much to do with the night’s
success. Mrs. Leo Finn was the queen bee
of this committee, and, with her husband,
president of the Old Boys’ Union, she enter-
tained a great tableful, among them re pre-
sentatives of other schools. Her white
georgettes sown thick with silver sequins and
Mrs. Dan Kelly’s gold-patterned lettuce-green
georgettes were among the night s decorative
effects. YYitli the genial surgeon and his
wife (St. Aloysius is the training-ground ol
the whole Kelly family) came the Stanley
aldrons from Honolulu,
This prettily poised head tops Mrs. Nor-
man Lowe, just repatriating herself after 10
years’ residence in Siam, where her husband,
a surveyor, spent 27 yeays of his life. Siam
according t o
these Austra-
lians, is just
as good as the
Garden of
Eden, and a
few inciden-
tals like tigers
only added a
thrill to long-
days of delight.
Mrs. Lowe has
already been
drawn into the
charity work-
ers’ liet, and
he r interests
are the new
home for the
State’s little
deaf and dumb
and blind
children an d
Dr. Arthur’s
Milk Fund for
under-nourished kiddies. She and her hus-
band are leaving with the Lo Soeufs on an
exploring trip to the Barrier Reef in the
course of the next month or so.
That little colony of healing, Prince
Alfred’s, benefited by a scuttleful of doub-
loons as a result of the last dance indulged
in by its honorary and resident medical
officers. The function is an annual, whose
chief object is sociability, and so gay and
jolly that not only the vast army of medicoes
attached to the hospital turn up with their
best girls, but hundreds of their friends
clamor for tickets. For this year’s dance at
the Wentworth the executive committee
had Mrs. E. W. Fairfax for president and
Dr. S. V. Marshall for its efficient secretary,
with Dr. Marjorie Dalgarno as his principal
offsider. Others who did outstanding work
were the W. G. Mansfield, the B. S. Edye
and the Philip Parkinson matrons.
The thrilling moment of the big bridge
and mah-jongg party at David Jones’s on
Monday night, in aid of the Deaf and
Dumb and Blind Children of this State, was
the opening of the sealed envelope contain-
ing the lucky number which won the £lO
hamper of provisions. A list of prizes
and donations that read like a mail-order
catalogue helped the organisers to run up
the profits.
The defenders of the Empire by sea, land,
air and word of mouth turned the Went-
worth into a scene the other night that
rivalled the famous one at Waterloo. The
occasion was the ball given by the First
Division officers (there are 23 units of
them). Hither came Generals and Colonels.
Majors and Knights with the women of
their households ; and Kingsford Smith and
Ulm were among the'night’s gaze-attracters.
General and Mrs. T. H. Dodds were the re-
ceivte,rs-in-cliief and greeted the Chief Jus-
tice Streets (he represented the Governor)
and the later arrivals, the Stanley Bruces,
who brought with them the Henry Barra-
cloughs. Mrs. Dodds wore black and silver
of distinction; the Chief Justice’s lady’s
jacaranda blues were sprayed with silver;
Commander Leo Quick’s pretty wife wore
spreading and ankle-length black tulle. Mrs.
Bruce was dressed in impeccable white,
rich with beads and with grace in every
line. Lieut.-Colonel G. F. Murphy, chair-
man of the dance committee, deserves three
rousing cheers for the gaiety and smooth
running of the ball.
An aisle of palms alternating with tall
silver loving-cups spilling over with stock,
daphne, camellias and roses, was traversed
by Loretto Frances Morrissey, of Ilarben
Vale, Blandford, when she sought the bless-
ing of St. Mary’s on her marriage with Allan
McLean, of Maffra, Gippslandi. At the
head of the aisle a pair of silver gates inter-
twined with orange blossom and daphne
gave poetic entry to the state of matrimony.
The tall and graceful bride was given away
by brother John. Striking features of her
ivory satins were the long tight Juliet sleeves
and a deep yoke of chiffon embroidered in
crystal and silver. A fiat girdle outlined the
waist, and from this swung crystal pendants.
The . train of Spanish lace was mounted on
silk tulle, and over all floated a tulle veil
and the odor of orange blossom. Babe Mor-
rissey, the bride’s sister, and niece Betty
Fogarty came on for their act as cool as the
cucumber whose green they had stolen for
their taffeta frocks. Romano's housed the
subsequent to-do. Both the mother of the
bride and the mother of the ’groom displayed
black lace frocks under straight black velvet
coats.
\Y bile his cousins of Harden were smiting
polo balls Alastair Ross, of Holbrook, was
arranging for a chime of wedding bells.
These pealed out from the kirk of Ashfield
last baturday after Alastair had given a mort-
gage over all his possessions to Alexina
Mitchell. Alexina is the youngest daughter
of the J. R. Mitchells, of Ruthven, Ashfield,
and she pledged herself to look after the
young man in sickness and in health from a
cascade of white tulle that fell like a Snowv
River over her gleaming white velvet frock,
and over the train that was mixed pink and
white tulle like cocoanut-ice. The bride’s
sister Marian ’maided in blue chiffonery.
and the ’groom’s brother David best-manned
in rich but not gaudy tailorings. A family
tea-drinking was the final act.
Brigadier-General E. F. Martin, of Drou-
balgie, Centennial Park, has just given the
usual blessing to daughter Muriel, who has
become engaged to Dudley Scott, of Wagga
eldest son of Colonel H. C. Scott, of Haw-
thorn.
Justice liaise Rogers’s small daughter
went with mother to see her father sworn in
Justice Ferguson, who had most to do with
the ritual, fascinated the youngster. That
night, after her prayers had been said, she
turned eyes beaming with memory on her
mother. “Mother,” she said, “what a kind
man Judge Ferguson is! If ever I sin Ido
hope God will let him try me!”
“A.G.M.” sees the last of an old friend:—
The demonstrations of national mourning and re-
spect for Mrs. Pankhurst, the amount of newspaper
space devoted to the eulogy of her genius, her
courage and the value of her public services are
truly amazing, especially when one recalls how few
years have passed since she was much prosecuted,
much persecuted and generally maligned. The fun-
eral service was impressive and picturesque, and the
presence of the wife of the Prime Minister and most
of the great women of the land must have been
some solace to Mrs. Pankhurst’s daughters, who so
bitterly resented the treatment she had received in
other days. Mrs. Despard, the 85-year-old sister of
the Earl of Ypres, came all the way from Ireland
for the funeral, and near her was the Marquis
Curzon’s young and beautiful daughter ; Lady Astor,
M.P., Viscountess Rhondda, Princess Sophia Dhuleep
Singh and Mrs. Pethick Lawrence were other notable
figures in the unusually interesting gathering. It
took scores of police to control the great crowds
at the church and later at the grave.
If you have any wearable warm clothing
that you don’t need and are handy to Syd-
ney, will you parcel the garments up and
leave them in the crypt under St. James’s
on August 10?
Five one-acters are more than a seasoned
London producer would care to squeeze
into one performance. But the Burdekin
House players (known as the Workshop
Theatre) gaily attempted this with their
Australian playwrights the other night.
Mrs. Holman and Mrs. Kearney were two
well-known writers whose names appeared on
the bill. Mrs. Kearney’s “V.C.”, a poignant
little post-war story, caught the attention
by its strong dramatic note ; and Mrs. Hol-
man brought a breath of healthy comedy into
the evening. But it is time Australian play-
wrights insisted that, if their works are
cut, the authors shall at the least. O.K. the
job.
Some time ago two of Roy de Mestre’s pic-
tures came under the notice of the senior
partner of Bernheim .Teune, the firm that
handles the blue-ribbon modern artists of
Paris when its galleries are not occupied by
shows of the Masters. When Mr. de Mestre
thought of holding an exhibition his firm
would gladly handle it, said the man who
knows what Paris buyers want. So the
young man’s show will open there next
April.
Ex-Water Board president Millner’s ami-
able lady and her sister, Mrs. A. A. Wick-
ham, whose name and hospitality are a
household word in Ballina, were on the
crowded Aorangi. They will go leisurely
across America to visit their niece, Mrs.
Harry Raven, and be introduced to her two
Raven fledglings at Long Island. Mrs.
Raven was Yvonne Aunousseau, whose
romantic marriage to a visiting scientist
caused a stir in Sydney’s professorial circles
six years ago. During the war Mrs. Millner
was an ardent worker for the French Aus-
tralian League, and those battalions to which
her three soldier-sons were attached. After
visiting niece Yvonne the sisters will travel
to London to meet their nephew Marcel
Aurousseau, who is a geologist of wide re-
pute.
Princess Beatrice was not able to attend
the concert given by Edward Cahill and
George Brooke at Carlton Gardens, but she
made amends by inviting them to Kensing-
ton Palace, where they gave a special re-
cital on June 15. The negro spirituals sung
by Brooke greatly pleased the company,
which included several old Australian friends
■ —the Dowager Marchioness Linlithgow
(Lady Hopetoun of long ago). Lady Strad-
broke, Lady Bridges and Lord Richard
Nevili.


4. V-
Lkiirra
1L" l
m
A
r
mm.
\
ru
**!
-£>
toT*
2_
I
1-*-:
y
jj'jj’j
JJJ.UJ
-£ -4
7
irL
I I KWi
IS
03!
M
!
SB
:<*»S
‘■Tr •
m
kill l
1
<s^
, S;:
4^
£
SwS
ffl >
tv
3HI JO S±dOJUOD 3HJ.
Agents:—
C. A. BANKS & CO.,
46 Young Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND MACHINERY CO.,
142 Albert Street, Brisbane, Q.
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD.,
894 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
G. MURRAY,
33 William Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Riverina and Tasmania.
At the turn of a switch in any room—any time —
anywhere—the Kohler unit starts up and gives light,
operates a radiator or other electrical appliance in that
efficient and world-famous Kohler manner.
The Kohler Plant places the country dweller on the level of comfort and convenience enjoyed
by the city household. It is fully automatic, and no other self-contained Household Plant embodies
such modern and scientific developments.
It removes that drudgery from your wife’s and daughter’s daily duties—it operates the vacuum
cleaner, washing-machine, house-water system, electric iron and refrigerator—provides abundant
light and power WITHOUT THE USE OF STORAGE BATTERIES.
It is economical to instal and to work. The special governor restricts the fuel used according
to load, and 110-volt current is supplied without practically any loss between generator and electric
appliance.
Sizes from 800 watts to 10.000 watts: large sizes are also procurable in 220 volts.
KOHLER AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC LIGHT & POWER UNITS
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
1 ZEALAND.
Wanganui District.
In DIVORCE No. 401.
IX THE MATTER of the Petition of JOHN
LEONARD DALE for dissolution of
marriage.
To MOLLY NORAH DALE formerly of
Hastings in New Zealand hut now of
address unknown Married Woman.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation bearing
date the 16th day of July 1928 has issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand
at Wanganui citing you to appear and
answer the petition of John Leonard Dale
of Wanganui fruit vendor wherein he prays
for a dissolution of liis marriage with you,
together with the custody of the child
adopted by yourself and himself on the
ground of your having deserted him for
upwards of three years to wit since the
4th day of May 1925 and such citation in-
timates that in default of your so doing the
Court will proceed to hear the said petition
and to pronounce sentence therein notwith-
standing your absence. Pursuant to an
order of this Court made on the 6th day of
July 1928 the time allowed you for filing
an answer to the said petition has been
fixed at 40 days from the date of publica-
tion of this advertisement. NOW THERE-
FORE TAKE NOTICE that for the pur-
pose aforesaid you are within the said timte
to attend in person or by your solicitor at
the Supreme Court office at Wanganui and
there to enter an appearance without which
you will not be allowed to address the
Court at any stage of the proceedings.
A copy of the said citation and petition
will be supplied to you on your applying
for the same at the Supreme Court office
at Wanganui.
Dated this 16th day of July 1928.
W. S JONES, Registrar.
Notes.
1. Friends of the respondent are parti-
cularly requested to forward to her
the foregoing advertisement.
2. This is the first and only insertion of
tins advertisement.
3. The petitioner’s solicitor is Mr. Charles
Stanley Brown, whose address for
service is at the office of Messrs. C. P.
and C. S. Brown, 71 Ridgway Street,
Wanganui, New Zealand.
HAVE DRY MATCHE
,jm WET WEATHER
It’s possible if you have
a Marble’s Water-Proof Matchbox.
Holds enough matches for several
days. Thousands used by men
who say “it’s worth its weight m
gold.” Made of seamless brass with
water-tight cover, just the rightsize
for the pocket. Get one today and
have a light when you need it most.
Ask for our complete catalog.
MARBLE ARMS & MFG. COMPANY,
611 Delta Avenue, Gladstone, Mich., U.S.A.
Representatives : Molden, Weber & Co., Ltd.
Box 1349 J, Sydney, N.S.W.
Legal Notice.
ETINLAYSON, JOHN.—Presumption of
Life Limitation (Scotland) Act 1891,
Intimation is hereby given that on 15tli
June, 1928, a Petition was presented to the
Lords of Council and Session (Second Divi-
sion : Lord Fleming, Ordinary; Mr. Saunders,
Clerk), at the instance of Euphemia Mar-
garet Finlayson, or Paterson, Burnside
House, Tain, and Others, under the Presump-
tion of Life Limitation (Scotland) Act
1891, praying their Lordships after such
intimation, service, procedure and inquiry by
advertisement or otherwise, as their Lord-
ships should direct, to find that John Finlay-
son. whose last known address was Jaw-
bone, Wellington, New South Wales, in 1908,
must be presumed to be dead.
On the said petition the following inter-
locutor was pronounced:—
15th June, 1928. Lord Fleming.
Act McDonald.
The Lord Ordinary appoints the Petition
to be intimated on the Walls and in the
Minute Book in common form: Further.
Appoints intimation of the presentation of
the Petition to be made by advertisement
twice in each of the following newspapers,
viz., the weekly Bulletin ; the Wellington
Gazette, and the Ross-Shire Journal ; and
allows all parties interested to lodge Answers
to the Petition by the 15tli day of October
next. —D. P. Fleming.
of all which intimation is hereby made.
BONAR HUNTER & JOHNSTONE,
W.S., Edinburgh,
MACDONALD & SANDISON,
Solicitors, Tain,
Agents for Petitioners.
Missing Friends.
p ORB ETT—MARGARET, KATE AND
THOMAS, children of Ann Corbett,
late of Corgriff Foynes, County Limerick,
Ireland, will hear something to their advant-
age if they communicate with NATIONAL
TRUSTEES COMPANY, 113 Queen-street
Melbourne.
Australia’s Greatest Sporting Paper:
The Sporting Globe.
Compiled by a large staff of noted
experts.
Inter-State edition published every
Wednesday. Price 3d.
The net sale of “The Sporting Globe”
is—
-43,308
as certified by two independent firms
of auditors.
Offices: 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
44-74 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
sfd
SCHUTE,
BELL & Cue
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officer 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
Missing Friends.
YY7ILLIAM PELCHEN, formerly of Ham-
” ilton, Victoria, farmer. —Will the above-
named or any person knowing his where-
abouts or able to give any information re-
garding him please communicate with his
brother Harry Pelchen, Hamilton. Victoria,
when the said William Pelchen will hear of
matters to his advantage. He was last heard
of in Sydney, New South Wales, in 1920.
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
Missing Friends.
f? V H. E. MURRAY, DECEASED.—WiII
anyone knowing the whereabouts of
WILLIAM HENRY MURRAY (son of
William Henry Murray and Harriet Emily
Taylor) please communicate with the Public-
Trustee, Hobart, Tasmania?
A SMASHING BLOW
THAT KILLS
Quickly and Cleanly
is delivered by the new
“SUPER-SPEED” ammunition
shot from its companion rifle,
the
(.25-20) “MODEL 53” (.32-20)
•WINCHESTER
TRADE MARK
DEVELOPING over 2000 feet
per second muzzle velocity,
these cartridges possess cor-
respondingly high energy, and
the flat trajectory so vital to
modern hunting needs.
THEY are operated through
the simplest, fastest and safest
under-lever action ever de-
vised, and fired through a
.22 inch Nickel-Steel barrel
specially designed and rifled
for them.
WEIGHING only about s|lb.,
and balanced for speedy
handling, MODEL 53 feels
like a high-grade “trapgun”
and is a typical WINCHESTER
Thoroughbred.
Solid frame Model,
£7/12/6
Take-down Model,
£B/12/6
Post Free.
Write for descriptive
leaflet “8.53.' !
COWLES 8 DUNN
{The Oldest-Established Gun-
makers in Australia'),
453 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
asdf
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.


The GQ/y>\HD Line of Beauty
I
xmm
/ /
/
■l
\ ,
I
s. v
■ j
\
SMART •
/V EVERY DETAIL
ust as the fashionable woman realizes the
ultimate importance of small essentials,
so does Gossard design and make founda-
tionwear perfect to the most minute details.
From the original design created by Gossard
artist-stylists, from the exquisite fittings
made by trained Gossard corsetieres , from the
careful selection of materials by schooled
experts down to the achievements of skilled
artisans Gossards are led on a pathway of
impeccable quality to the peak of accepted
fashion. And because of these things the
fashionable woman loves Gossards, and
knows when she chooses them that her high-
est expectations will be fulfilled.
Gossard Corsets
are made within the Empire
I
n all the types of foundation garments you
like to wear, you may be sure of finding
a group in The Gossard Line of Beauty. Do
not delay in seeing the new Autumn Gossards
at your favourite store. Girdles, step-ins, Gos-
sard Completes, combinations, clasp-arounds,
front-lacing corsets, are new in design, per-
fect in workmanship.
The Canadian H. W. Gossard Co., Ltd*
ii 4 Castlereagh St Sydney
4-1-18
New South Wales.
Everyone agrees that the
Daily Newspaper is a
wonderful advertising medium,
And in the Great State of
QUEENSLAND
the morning daily that to-day stands out easily supreme ia
THE DAILY MAIL
Whose net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be
greater than that of any other Queensland daily.
Manufacturers and business men who buy their advertising space in the
best market nowadays select “The Daily Mail” as the first medium in
Queensland to carry their advertising messages. For further particu-
lars, Advertising Rates, etc., please apply to
ROBERT JACKSON, N.S.W. Branch Manager.
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
CLYNE HOUSE, 72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone 81522.
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
Agister
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
in
THE REGISTER,
which is read by all classes,
- Proprietors:
W. K. THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
ERIC N. BIRKS, N.S.W. Representative.
Telephone 3M>'lB7.
G. N. BEDNALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.
THE
“QUEENSLANDER”
QUEENSLAND’S GREATEST
PICTURE WEEKLY.
Everyone interested in the Queen
State of the Commonwealth should
make a habit of seeing the “Queens-
lander” regularly.
Pictures and news items from every
corner of the State, as well as fea-
tures for every member of the family
are included.
Free specimen copy and subscription
form on application to
The Brisbane News-
paper Co., Ltd.,
Publishers of the
‘‘BRISBANE COURIER,”
“SPORTS REFEREE,”
“Courier” Building, Queen Street,
Brisbane,
Or
SYDNEY REPRESENTATIVE:
ROBT. D. FISHER,
Colonial Mutual Chambers,
74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone 85007.
THE MERCURY,
Tasmania’s Leading Daily
Newspaper.
ESTABLISHED 71 YEARS.
“The Illustrated
Tasmanian Mail”
(Published Wednesdays).
ESTABLISHED 51 YEARS.
No advertising campaign is
complete without including
Tasmania’s leading journals,
as both circulate extensively
over the whole of the State.
DAVIES BROS., LTD.,
Head Office: Macquarie St., Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE:
F. L. WILSON, 228 Pitt Street.
’Phone MA3161.
MELBOURNE OFFICE:
“Argus” Building, Elizabeth Street.
LONDON OFFICE:
A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
“THE age:
Established 185S/.-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“THE AGE” is a publication of quality and
character, and has earned an enviable reputa-
tion by seventy-four years of steadfast labor
in the production of a clean family newspaper.
A Victorian production of National import-
ance, “THE ACfE” occupies a place in journal-
ism unsurpassed anywhere. Original, of un-
doubted prestige, a leader in everything and
a political force recognised by all.
If you desire to keep fully informed of the
news of the day read
“THE AGE.”
It provides a daily interpretation of current
topics and enables its subscribers to keep in
touch with the world’s progress.
“THE ACHE” publishes over
1,000,000 advertisements
annually.
Price lid. per copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter, post free
within the Commonwealth.
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
A FEW moments
spent in attaching
WEED CHAINS to your
tyres — before trouble
is encountered —will
prevent danger and long
delays on the road.
Weed Chains grip
give positive traction
in mud or sand.
Standard of quality for
over a quarter of
a century
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
SYDNEY EUCHARISTIC CONGRESS
THE Accommodation during this period will be
unprocurable. Intending visitors should at once
make provision for this. We have arrangements with
many hotels and boarding-houses m and around
Sydney at tariffs to suit all pockets. These are filling
fast. For further information write to
ADVANCE ACCOMMODATIONS,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALASIAN ACCOMMODATION SPECIALISTS.
X
GIVE YOUR BOY A
FAIR CHANCE.
For a small sum annually we pro-
vide him with a substantial banking
account when he starts on his career.
Full particulars from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.


11)11/
/T
&
V.
GAMES AT SEA.
AMONG the many attractions of
a voyage on board an Orient
Liner will be found the spacious
games decks, where all kinds of
shipboard sports may be played
under ideal conditions.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA TO ENGLAND VIA SUEZ.
Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and yew Zealand.
FEATHERS AND FINS.
The Birds and Fishes of Michaelmas Cay, Great Barrier Reef. The
Fauna of this Ocean Islet described by Tom Iredale and G. B. Whitley in
THE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM MAGAZINE
OTHER INTERESTING CONTENTS.
SEA-COWS. THE STORY OF THE DUGONG bv E. I hough ton
SEA ANEMONES AND THEIR ASSOCIATES by £. A. LiMiigstonr
WATER SUPPLY OF THE ABORIGINES .-•••• b .V W. W. hoi'p"
HIDDEN DWELLERS OF THE TIDAL FLATS by F. A. McNeill and A. A. Livingstone
THE HABITS OF OUR COMMON SHORE CRABS by Melbourne Ward
INTERESTING NATURE TALKS—FULLY ILLUSTRATED. Obtainable from Leading Booksellers and
the Museum. Annual Subscription —4/4 (in advance, posted). Per Copt/ 1/1 (posted).
JULY-SEPTEMBER. ISSUE. VOL. 111., PART 7, NOW AVAILABLE.
MUSEUM ILLUSTRATED NATURE POSTCARDS.
30 Studies in color of our Australian Birds. Posted 6/2, with explanatory Booklet.
Amusements.
THE REGENT
Australia’s Most Luxurious Theatre.
(Direction Hoyt’s Theatres, Ltd.)
The Home of
the Superior Motion Picture
and the Effective Presentation.
UMPIRE THEATRE,
L Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Niehtlv at 8. Matinees Thursdays & Saturdays, -.15.
Great New York Golfing Story,
TOP HOLE.
With Van Lowe, Renee Dixon, Blanche Jones, Russell
Scott Audrey Lewis, Fred Bluett, Violet Elliott
and All-Star Cast.
The Famous Empire Pony Ballet and Beauty Chorus.
Week Nights: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6, 7 /«. Sat - 3/3,
5/6, 8/6. Matinees: 1/6, 2/6, Children. V. - ’
1/6, 2/6. Reserves: Theatre, MAIOOO, and all city
Booking Offices.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: GRAND OPERA.
ROYAL: THE SILENT HOUSE.
CRITERION: SEXES AND SEVENS.
PALACE:
THE LAUGHING OPTIMIST.
DICKARDS* TIVOLI THEATRES.
D Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I c. WILLIAMSON, LTD
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S : HIT THE DECK.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE PATSY.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE.
THE HIGH ROAD.
“THE GARDEN OF ALLAH,” with Alice Terry and Ivan Petrovitch.
A LLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-
WATTS in Plays of SHAKSPEARE.
CORONATION HALL, BONDI JUNCTION.
Wed.: “Taming of the Shrew.” Thurs.: Romeo and
Juliet.” Fri.: Twelfth Night.” Sat.: Henry VIII.”
Sydney Rep.: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229, Sydney.
’Phone: MA1277.
ING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES_ WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
William Anderson presents the Australian Comedy,
THE RUDD FAMILY.
A THEATRE,
** MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING.
E. J. Carroll presents, by arrangement with Richard
White and Eric Edgley, the Hilaious Comedy,
NEW BROOMS.
Starring the Beautiful Young Artist
LEONA HOGARTH.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
** MELBOURNE.
the merry widow.
With JOHN HILBERT and MAE MURRAY.
ALSO
THE SMART SET.
With WILLIAM HAINES and JACK HOLT.
, jyjAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
R IN-TIN-TIN in
THE MASTER PICTURE,
A DOG OF THE REGIMENT.
Box Plan at Allans’ & Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distingioshed Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin, having re-
turned from their exploration of the North,
went to Ascot races. Lady Goodwill had
Mrs. Campbell and Miss Iline Ilaycock witn
her, and entertained a party at tea on the
committee-room verandah. The Governor
and Colonel Campbell lunched with the com-
mittee before the ladies’ arrival at the course.
Lady Goodwin wore a fawn tailor-made with
pleated skirt, a liigh-crowned hat in cinna-
mon, and a stonemarten stole. Mrs. Camp-
bell was in navy crepe de Chine. Miss Iline
Haycock chose dark blue repp, Chinchilla
furs and black satin hat. Mrs. Coldham
wore grey with fox furs; Mrs. E. T. Bell,
black-and-white crepe de Chine, with fur-
trimmed black coat; Mrs. Stanley Chapman,
grey fox on black satin ; Mrs. Hannibal King,
fawn tweed tailor-made, with a. navy felt
and fox furs; Mrs. Reading, mastic and jade
frock, with fur-trimmed black cloth coat.
Tessa Reading had her favorite saxe-blue,
and Joyce Darvall was in navy and grey.
At the Mater Hospital Ball where Mrs.
T. J. Ryan presented 24 debs, to their Exes.,
Lady Goodwin’s midnight blue gown, irides-
cent with sequins, was worn with a white
fox stole, and Mrs. Campbell’s storm-clad
silk muslin had a cascade pelisse panel. Mrs.
Windsor gave Lady Goodwin a bunch of
crimson roses and gerberas, veiled in tulle.
She was in Lido blue, with a peacock skirt.
Various ivories and whites were worn by the
debs., amongst whom was Sylvia, daughter
of Ashton Murphy, whose drawings have
been seen in The Bulletin. The debs.’
table was decked in blue and silver with blue-
bird favors and silver bon-bons and vases of
arum-lilies. The official guests’ table was
beautiful with bowls of Toowoomba violets
and pale-pink sweet-peas. Flags and cables
of colored lights and a forest of our palms,
with wistaria shades and columns of gold
and silver, decorated the hall and ballroom.
There was a very big attendance, and the
hospital funds should largely benefit. The
Countess di san Marzano wore coral studded
with Venetian beads; Mrs. Ryan was in
silver and amethyst; Mrs. Morgan Lane wore
blue, and Mrs. Ralph Weaver was in grey
and cyclamen pink.
All Hallows school children had a dance
for the funds of the Holy Name cathedral
ir. the concert-hall at the school, the Mother
Superior helping them. There was a grand
march, and the Countess di san Marzano
and Mrs. Ryan judged the frocking, giving
the first prize in the under-nine-years-old
class to Marjorie Benjamin, who was Red
Riding Hood. Miss B. O’Farrell, who was
e. brown-paper parcel, was champion of the
over-nines, and “Nine Royal Samoans” won
the prize for the best set. Jill Ryan handed
a posy of sweet-pea to the Countess.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The three young debaters from U.S.A.
gave a good account of themselves in their
two arguments with Hobart Uni. students,
Butler, Barnes and Davern. The subjects,
prohibition and 1 the success or failure of
democracy, gave plenty of scope to both
sides, but the voting favored the visitors on
each occasion. His' Ex. entertained the
Americans informally at luncheon at Gov-
ernment House, with the Elliott Lewises,
the N. P. Booths, Col. Thomas and the
Hobart Uni. debaters.
Roller-skating has revived amongst us, to
the exclusion of most other amusements
for the moment, and its patrons can be
seen everywhere comparing prowess and
bruises. A recent snowstorm, however, pro-
vided a rival attraction, for the ski-ers were
able to indulge in their winter sport once
more.
Mrs. Cotton, secretary for the last, six
years of the Victoria League, was presented
on her retirement with an illuminated
address in recognition of her work, an evening
bag containing various gifts, and a bouquet
from one of the League’s branches. Mrs.
Stourton, the League’s deputy-president,
handed over the rewards.
Here we have Fred Brough, a pillar of
the Repertory Society and a good
friend to lovers
of the theatre
generally.
Having had a
great deal of
stage experi-
ence in the
Cold Country
and Aus-
tralia, he has
usually a show
on hand, in
which he is
either acting
or producing
or both. Ho-
bart playgoers
got their first
taste of his
quality in a
little piece
called “T h e
Last Man In,”
produced some
years ago by
Miss Wilton, and since then we have learned
that any part allotted him is in safe hands.
In the recent production of “The Enemy of
the People” by the Rep. Co. he played the
part of Dr. Stockmann with eminent suc-
cess. Mr. Brough claims distant kinship
with Robert Brough of affectionate memory.
The death of Emma Cleburne, at a very
„reat age, brings to an end the history of
one of Tassie’s very earliest' families. The
old house under the lee of Mt. Direction,
with much of its furniture and effects, will
come under the hammer immediately. The
place has long been noted for its treasures
of silver and china.
Frank Grubb, of Strathroy, near Launces-
ton, was married recently in London to Nina
Vincent, daughter of the late R.P. and
Mrs. “Vincent, of Perth, and before that of
Melbourne. The couple will make their home
at Strathroy later on. -
The opening of Parliament lacked even
the small amount of pomp and ceremony
which usually accompanies the function, for
the O’Grady was absent. The session was
opened tjy Commission, and the whole pro-
ceedings took only about 15 minutes.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Paper ladders in orange and black against
a background of greenery, with a bevy of
black and ginger cats, made Princess Hall,
Claremont, festive for the annual Wattle
Ball. Mrs. E. J. Baker wore neapolitan-blue
beaded in a deeper shade; Mrs. E. Beart was
also in blue, and her daughter Dorothy
danced in crimson georgette beaded with
rhinestones. Mrs. O’Hara and Mrs. Walter
Dwyer chose gowns of black beaded georgette,
Doreen O’Hara wore frosted beads on blue,
Neva Hocking danced in apricot, and Jean
Lang in green georgette and lace.
One night during last week’s rain and
floods, bridge players splashed through the
puddles from their cars to the King’s Park
Tennis Club pavilion. The room was cosy,
with a big log-fire and bowls of wild temple-
touia. The party was arranged by Kinder-
garten College graduates to help set on its
feet a new free kindergarten at Mt. Haw-
thorn. Kathleen Walsh, Mollie McGibbon,
Elsie Saw, Jean Wilson, Athole Clifton and
Carrie Raynes worked on the committee, and
Miss Clifton’s sister, Mrs. Burleigh, here
on holiday from Madras, carried off a bridge
table, the prize for highest score.
This i 3 a new picture by Bardwell Clarke
of Mrs. Rose Atkinson. A. pupil of the
Melba Con.,
she achieved
her first big
success with
the name part
in “Orpheus”;
the final opera
of her student
years, at the
PI a y h o u s e.
Since her first
concert, given
here in con-
junction with
Montie Brear-
ley and A. J.
Leck i e, her
name has
figured on
many pro-
grammes. She
has a gift for
organising and
Althouse and
Middleton and
the Sistine Choir were among musicians who
left their arrangements in her capable hands.
Mrs. Atkinson is at present spending a well-
earned holiday in Sydney.
Marie Lethbridge, who possesses a beauti-
ful mezzo-soprano voice, figured among the
artists at the Green Room Club's cabaret.
She sang in a frock of peacock-tinted sequins,
the skirt of tiny frills touching her ankles
at the back. President of the club C. I\>
Smith brought his wife # in black and white
scintillations; Mrs. Hope Robertson wore
midnight-blue, Peggy Smith black, and
Marcia Hodges white, beaded in gold. Mrs.
John Stodart wore a sprinkling of beads
on black georgette over shell-pink, and Poppy
Salom was in cream with opalescent trim-
mings.
“The Wrong Number,” at the Assembly
Hall, was one of the Repertory’s best pro-
ductions. Maude Dingwall made a pleasing
Rosalind Fessenden. Bessie Durlacher was
a fascinating and flirtatious Pansy, whose
understanding husband was played by Keith
Farrington, her husband in real life. Arthur
Maxwell, who produced the piece, played the
part of Ronnie Oliver, a conceited but untal-
ented actor.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
As the Governor and Lady Hore-Ruthven
have been on a tour of the Murray districts,
the Tattersall meeting at Morphettville was
without v.r. support. The weather was
cold and fur coats were prominent. Chairman
p. J. Flannagan and his wife entertained,
Mrs. Flannagan wearing a black tailored
coat with black hat and fur. The golf
championships rather affected the attendance.
The Movie Rail was held at the Palais
Royal. The picture houses each sent a
set representing a cinema success, the
prettiest being the York Theatre’s bevy, who
appeared in poudre costume. A cap and
balloon stall was run by ladies representing
the different public charities who were to
benefit from the show. It wasn’t quite
such a hectic evening as on the last occasion.
Mayor and Mayoress Bonytlion were present.
The three Civic Balls are over. The
kiddies’ fancy-dress hop gave the greatest
joy, and was certainly the prettiest sight.
Mayoress Bonytlion has received many letters
from little ones, thanking her for the good
time they had.
Glenelg has been en fete under the
auspices of a • large committee who style
themselves the Optimists, and dances,
bridges and bargain hunting have all been
featured in turn. New seaside resorts round
the coast are being opened up, and Gelnelg
doesn’t want to be overlooked.
Everyone was delighted to see the 18-
year-old W S. Rymill beat Legh Winser in
the final round of the State amateur golf
championships. With parents as keen as
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Rymill, it seems
quite fitting. It is only recently that their
son has taken up the game seriously ; he has
been engaged in other sport.
Last week E. W. Holden (president) and
the committee of the Mount Osmond Golf Club,
invited a large number of guests to an all-
day match between the professional golfers
in this State. The weather was fine but very
cold, and the clubhouse had to cater for
large appetites. This is our only club that
permits ladies to play on Saturday and
Sunday.


SURELY life offers nothing better than the
pleasures of congenial company, of
cheerful surroundings, and last, but not
least, the satisfaction of being well and
correctly dressed. It is remarkable, however,
that many splendid young men and beautiful
Australian girls, careful in all other matters,
are careless as to their footwear! Undoubtedly
it is a fact that the shoes you wear will mar
or make your appearance.
Gentlemen prefer Sharwood’s
Remember, the name is on every pair. Look for it!
Better-class men and women choose their
shoes with discrimination—they do not blindly
accept the first pair that is offered to them,
but emphatically insist on having J. H.
Sharwood’s, knowing full well that the sales-
man who offers some other make alleged to
be just as good has his own ends to serve.
First ascertain which of the great range of
Sharwood shapes fits exactly, and then
always ask for that shape. You will be
assured of the same consistent comfort.
'» - -N
1
sa
;■ .
m
i 11
;
111
m
m
1
Hi
■
«■
H
?■ -
1
sit
9
sdf
FAULTLESS
FOOTWEAR
Why- and niine are Sharwoods too
Should you have any
difficulty i n purchasing
Sharwood Shoes you are
cordially invited to write
to Head Offices, Abbotsford,
Melbourne, Vic., when you
will be advised as to the
nearest store from which
they are obtainable. Do
ii-hat others do decline
substitutes, and look for the
name on every pair.


Babies
thrive on
sdf
it is so 7
nourishing and
easy to digest
In 4 sizes
oFall Chemists & Stores
FRANCE
MARmE
ryj-.f,
The only place in the world that
makes Cognac Brandy is the
Cognac district of France.
M artell’s comes from Cognac only,
Martell’s for Age and Quality.
KARTELL'S
BRANDY
6
v*
n
>»•
O* »'
v:<o^
*V<
irff ~ a -p ef
-yV °'% 0 *'
sdf
ƒds
JUST JOE.
BY-MARGARET FANE AND HILARY LOFTING.
GOOD morning, Morning!”
The lift in the air was sufficient
excuse for the greeting of the morn-
ing. A good night’s rest was behind him, a
good breakfast inside him; and here was
the day and the long road in front of him.
Why shouldn’t he greet the morning that
gave it all life?
It was life. He could feel it in the little
breeze, see it in the moving colors of the
bush, feel it under his feet in the dust. The
llerkomcr Company and all its works were
far away in Sydney, and he was a dot mov-
ing along this road and caring nothing for
the Herkomer Company. For the moment,
of course, or for the duration of his holiday,
his annual walking tour.
Chief clerk. He had been chief clerk for
three years now, and yet had not ceased to
be proud of it. This country—the bush and
the paddocks running down to the road, the
roofs of the farmhouses, the stock, the bark-
ing dogs—reminded him that he had cause
to be proud of his job. But for old Mr.
Herkomer he’d have been working now on a
farm like one of these, an uneducated, future-
less nobody. At a morning like this old
Mr. Herkomer would have puffed out his
cheeks and smiled all over his large pleasant
face. He’d have greeted it.
For a moment Mr. Bidley’s face was grave,
in spite of the blitheness of the morning.
Ten years ago he had gone to Mr. Her-
komer’s funeral, feeling that no one in the
large company of mourners was more per-
sonal and sincere in his sorrow and regret.
Most of them had been relations or con-
nections in some way; they had had some
right or some reason to expect the kindnesses
they remembered. But he had had no such
right; Mr. Herkomer’s kindness to him had
been a pure gift out of the largeness of his
heart. Mr. Herkomer had come up to the
farm to get better and rest after an illness;
and he, Mr. Bidley, had been the farm boy.
Mr. Herkomer had talked to him and made
him talk —learned that he was vaguely ambi-
tious in the way that fifteen-year-old boys
are with only the cows and the fowls and
the dull farm work to occupy them. And
had offered him a job in Sydney. He could
feel the glow of the moment now, though
it was twenty years ago.
And Mr. Herkomer had made a good job
of it—put him on to night-classes, advised
him personally about lots of things, even
asked him out to his house at Bellevue Hill
sometimes. No one had ever been kinder to
a stranger.
He had done his best and worked hard. He
knew that he had his limitations and could
never imagine himself as a great business
man like Mr. Herkomer, or even like young
Mr. Herkomer who was boss now. But he
had worked hard and done his best. And now
he was chief clerk, and a good chief clerk,
though he said it himself. And though he
had his limitations he knew the business
backwards, and Moult, the assistant-manager,
was getting on in years.
But all that was far away in Sydney. It
was only that these paddocks and farms,
these noises and the sleepy-looking stock
had reminded him of old Mr. Herkomer and
the funny tricks that life could play you.
All the pride and loyalty, for instance, that
was part of himself now, and that would
never have come to life but for the chance
accident of Mr. Herkomer’s choosing dad’s
farm for his convalescence. By .reason of
that he was walking along this road as some-
body—not important, perhaps, but still some-
body—in the commercial life of Sydney. And
he might have been driving cows along it.
There was a good deal worth thinking about
in that.
He paused on the brink of a dip in the
road. There was a flavor in this. Every
year at the opening of his walking holiday
he felt this spirit, this tingle of —of beauty,
he supposed it would be called; he could
think of no other word to fit what he felt.
He knew himself pretty thoroughly, he be-
lieved ; living alone in Stanmore and working
hard to make Mr. Herkomer’s kindness pro-
ductive, he had had to learn all he could
about himself. But sometimes, out on a
road like this, with that little bit of a town-
ship hiding at the, bottom of this long slope,
and the breeze and the wonderful
colors—that he should be here
looking at this and feeling it all
through him, struck him as sur-
prising, as even miraculous. It was
as if he came suddenly on some
door in himself that he didn’t dare to open,
a mystery incompatible with the life of the
office and Stanmore and doing your best
with your job. All this came rushing at him
now, standing on the rise and looking down
at Quincy, sleepy and kind in the sunlight
at the bottom.
lie did know himself. He kpew he wasn’t
anything to look at, for one thing, like Max-
well and O’Kane. That didn’t matter much,
perhaps, though a good appearance like
O’Kane’s clear-cut face and Maxwell's sud-
den shining smile was an asset, even in the
office. He had got over wanting what he
couldn’t have, and was content to be short
and a bit thin, to know that he didn’t and
never would look like anything; that people
just glanced at his face and then confined
themselves to chief-clerk business, probably
not even glancing at him at all when the
business was over. He had got used to that;,
and in time had accepted the evident fact
that he was no more than a machine to give
and receive information. He was so proud
to be that machine in the Herkomer Com-
pany that his disappointment, his regret that
nobody except the old gentleman had seemed
to think of him as a part of humanity,
as well as a reliable machine, had
seemed unworthy—even a breaking of faith,
in a way. So he had done his best to push
"'And you get out, too,’ he said sharply and coldly to her.”
it out of his mind, to the end that now he
hardly ever thought of it.
But coming down into sleepy Quincy m
this breeze, and feeling this tingling sparkle
in the air. he remembered it again. Not
with the old regret —he was used to it and
he knew himself by now, and what he could
expect—but as, somehow, a part of the
door of mystery that he dared not open.
Quincy revealed itself as just a township,
small and sleepy and self-sufficient. There
was a sort of guarded feeling, unusual in
larger townships; he had felt it before in
these very small communities living per-
haps twenty miles away from the next com-
munity. A jealousy, a hardness —it was
difficult to describe it or to tell how you
could feel it.
The baker, the pub, two vacant lots, the
store, the butcher, the School of Arts and its
poster announcing Saturday's picture-show,
“All Lost for Love.” What a title! In Syd-
ney or even in Stanmore
“All Lost for Love” —something was tap-
ping at his memory.
Yes. Down in the basement at the office.
It was the lunch-hour, and he was leaning
against the strong-room door eating a sand-
wich. Pulsifer came tumbling down the
steps very excited.
“Well, Otho Pegram's done it,” he said.
Maxwell looked up from his paper. “Done
what?” he asked.
“Bunked with Fedora Maslova!”
“Good Lord ! But what about the Pegram
business and his family and that great place
of his”
“High and dry,” Pulsifer said. “Pegram’s
on the high seas with a Russian dancer, see-
ing that her deck-chair’s sheltered from the
wind. His troubles about Pegram and Bailey!
He’ll have seen to the money part all right,
though Mrs. Pegram’s got as much as he
has of her own.” Pulsifer put a match to
his spirit-lamp. “But it’s the official finish
of Otho Pegram.”
“Good Lord !” O’Kane said again. “And
all that big business, the position he’d built
up, all gone phut for something he’ll be
sick of in six months. Tagging round the
world with a Russian dancer —I can’t see
Otho Pegram doing it.”
“I can.”
Bidley remembered the sound of his own
voice and the surprise in the three faces
turned to him.
“You can’t tell,” he remembered his own
voice going on. “Of course, I’m not that
sort of man myself—far from it —-but I can
see how other men can throw everything
away for some one thing, something heroic
like a deep love.”
“Deep love my foot!” Pulsifer broke in.
“I tell you in six months he’ll wish he was
back in Bridge-street.”
Everybody had something to say about
poor Otho Pegram, but Bidley had held to
his belief that it was possible to understand
this tlirowing-away of a career. lie realised,
as he told them, that being so far from that
kind of man himself took a good deal of the
weight out of his argument; nevertheless, in
defiance of O’Kane’s description of the dreary
life Pegram had condemned himself to as a
sort of hanger-on of a troupe of travelling
dancers, he maintained that the thing was
feasible and understandable. It wasn’t what
Pegram got out of it; it was the heroic
compulsion that made Pegram do it and
suffer gladly whatever came in its wake. It
was a step into the unknown ; and, although
only heroic characters could take the step,
that didn’t prevent other characters from
understanding the feeling. '
They laughed at him. They naturally
would; he must have looked pretty funny
standing there, undersized and thin, chief
clerk written all over him, talking about
Ids understanding of heroic deeds. Pulsifcr
said that he expected Bidlcy to come back
from his holiday with an Egyptian princess
on his arm and his resignation in his other
hand. That was like Pulsifer. He generally
managed to get a sneer into what he said,
sooner or later.
* * * *
He bought some bread and cheese in
Quincy. It was too early for lunch and twenty
miles to Byfleet, the next townslrp; he
would eat his bread and cheese as he walked.
It was hot, and at first he felt the drag
in his legs as lie always did at die begin-
ning of his holiday. But he got his second
wind, and the miles put themselves behind
him pretty comfortably after that. Never-
theless he was glad when the signs of Byfleer
began to show up in the failing light.
Twenty-four miles was a good day; he telt
that lie had earned a night’s rest and a
fortable tea. The next day wouldn’t oe so
hard; Marlock was only eleven miles on and
he could take it easy.
A nice little place. Byfleet. In Uie gather-
ing summer dusk he felt a rich, promise of
the rest and refreshment his pleasant
physical fatigue demanded. A nice little
pub with its affable host, a wash, and
presently the comfortable tea was inside
him. Teople were fools to spend their holi-
days in any other way.
“Goin’ to the social to-night?” the inn-
keeper asked. “There’s a concert an’ a
bit of a dance —you’d enjoy yourself.”
“No. I think early to bed will suit me
best to-night.”
The innkeeper laughed. “Afraid your sleep
won’t be too good up till midnight, anyway.
The School of Arts 1 is bang opposite your
window.”
Mr. Bidley laughed in his turn. “It
would take more than a concert and a dance
to keep me awake to-night,” he said.
He leaned on the verandah-rail outside
his window for a moment. Half asleep
already in the heavy summer night, he saw
the lights of the School of Arts opposite
and the townspeople gathering for their
“social.”
“’Ere, Alf, that’s too raw!”
The rough voice was full of accusation
and menace. There was a converging of
the figures .under the lights, and more ex-
cited voices. Some sort of a row seemed to
be on.
Mr. Bidley found himself at the edge of
the little crowd that had gathered about
the steps of the School of Arts. A young
man who had evidenly had too much to
drink was struggling in the arms of two
other young men, while a fourth young man
stood by, his face white and determined.
Presently the drunken man broke loose, and
the fourth young man’s fist swung back
and shot into his jaw. The drunken man
reeled and tumbled down the steps to the
footpath.
A silence followed the heavy blow and the
fall, while the man who had dealt the blow
stood at the top of the steps glaring down.
“Now get out, Digger,” he said at last.
“You asked for it and you got it.”
From the shadow'S“' at the back of the en-
trance a woman detached herself and came
slowly, half-foolishly, into the light, pitiful
in her tawdry village finery. She looked
vaguely into the face of the young man.
“And you get out, too,” he said sharply
and coldly to her.
“Look,' Alf,” a youth beside him said,
“that smack was over the odds. He’s shick-
ered and didn’t mean any ’arm.”
Alf turned on the speaker. “No ’arm be
damned,” he said. “I got me mother and
me sisters ’ere, and Digger had no right to
bring that girl here, shickered or sober.”
“Yairs. But that smack”
“Well, what was I to do?” Alf demanded.
“I told ’im to go and take Lil with ’im
before there was a row. And ’e wouldn’t.
I told ’im I’d chuck ’im out if he didn’t.
And still he wouldn’t. So I chucked ’im
out. If ’e doesn’t like it ’e can see me about
it when ’e’s sober. Think I’m goin’ to have
mum and the girls tryin’ to enjoy them-
selves with a girl like that kickin’ about the
hall?” , , , ,
The woman lifted her head and looked
again at Alf’s indignant young face. Mr.
Bidley expected a wild outbreak from her.
but nothing came. Her bewildered eyes
( Continued, on page 53.)


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited
(with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LIMITED)
EIGHTIETH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1928.
Presented to the Shareholders at an Ordinary General Meeting held at the Head Banking House,
343 George Street, Sydney, on Friday, 27th July, 1928.
£477,165 16 2
£236,950
125,000
50,000
65,215
12
0
0
3
The Directors submit to the Shareholders a Statement of Profit and Loss and a Balance Sheet
showing the Liabilities and Assets of the Bank on the 30th June, 1 928, and present the following Report:
f in^ C kjd ance at credit of Profit and Loss Account, after adding the amount brought forward and deducting Interim Dividend at the
ae o per cent per annum, paid on 24th January, 1928, rebate on current bills and accrued interest on fixed deposits, reducing premises
accoun , paying land, income and other taxes, and providing for bad and doubtful debts, amounts to
out or which the Directors recommend the following appropriations:—
To Payment of a Dividend for the past half-year at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum . .
„ 1 ransfer to Reserve Fund (making it £4,075,000)
»* Transfer to |3ank Premises Account
~ Balance carried forward
£477,165 16 2
In terms of Article 94, Sir William Vicars, C.8.E., and Mr. Edward Ritchie Knox were appointed Directors to fill the vacancies
i a, W d |Vi eBPe^ IVe ri b f the \/ e A Ign n a / I ti T° r !- of the A H °, n ; Sir Thomas Hughes, M.L.C., in January, and the resignation of Major-General the Hon.
of candidature ° W ’ VD '’ M,L,C *’ in A P ril last * Sir William Vicars and Mr. Knox are now eligible for election and have given notice
F j This meeting is called upon to elect a Director, consequent on the retirement in terms of the Articles of Association, of Mr. Owen
Esmond rriend, who is eligible for re-election, and has given the requisite notice that he is a candidate for the office.
It rests also with this Meeting to appoint Auditors.
c_ llfk W Durmg the , year bra^ es of Bank have been established at 11a Castlereagh Street (Sydney), Eastwood and Rose Bay, in New
South Wales; at Bordertown, Mill, cent, Mt. Gambler and Naracoorte, in South Australia; and at Footscray in Victoria.
at 18 Birchfn^mT 0 * 1 Wlllmm Street ’ London, was closed on 19th November last, the business being transferred to the Branch
GEORGE J. COHEN,
. Chairman.
BALANCE SHEET OF
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LIMITED),
1928 (Including the figures of the London Branch by Cable).
at
(with which is
30th June,
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund
Notes in Circulation
Bills in Circulation . .
Deposits and other Liabilities
Profit and Loss Account
£8,689,012
14,244
2,149,048
51,824,699
477,165
10
10
12
2
16
£63,154,170 11 6
Coin, Bullion, Australian
Commonwealth Notes and
Cash at Bankers . .
Money at short call . .
Short-dated British Treasury
Bills
British and Australian Gov-
ernment Stocks and other
Securities
Bills Receivable in London
and Remittances in transit
Notes and Bills of other
Banks
Bills discounted, and other debts due to the Bank
Bank premises, furniture, etc. . .
£24,480,242 15 7
37,316,784 7 I
1,357,143 8 10
£63,154,170 11 6
PROFIT AND LOSS.
£236,261 9 2
To Interim Dividend for the Half-year ended 31st
December, 1927, at the rate of 10 per cent, per
annum, paid on 24th January, 1928
Balance proposed to be dealt with as follows:
To Dividend for past Half-year at
the rate of 10 per cent, per
annum
~ Reserve Fund . .
~ Bank Premises Account . .
~ Balance carried forward . .
£236,950
125,000
50,000
65,215
12
0
0
3
£477,165 16 2
£713,427 5 4
By Amount brought forward from last year.
„ Profit for Year ended 30th June, 1928
. . £60,184 4 3
.. 653,243 1 1
£713,427 5 4
We hereby certify that we have examined the bills,
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited, and have
in the foregoing Balance Sheet.
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
J. R. DRYHURST, General Manager.
compared the balances and counted the cash in the Head Office of The
compared the returns of the Branches, and have found the same as specified
Sydney, 11 th July, 1928.
HARRINGTON B. COWPER
JUSTIN J. BRENAN
Auditors.


m
hat gives
the finishing
touch to your whole
appearance.
Battersby hats have
that unobtrusive
smartness which
distinguishes the
well - dressed man
the world over.
Every Battersby is
British throughout,
made of fur in our
own factory at
Stockport.
BRITISH
HATS
FOR MEN
SOLD
THE BEST
HATTERS
Actual Makers:
BATTERSBY & CO., LTD.,
Stockport.
For further particulars, write —
SYDNEY:
BOX 1655JJ, G.P.O.
MELBOURNE:
BOX 364, G.P.O.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
BOX 763.
“HOME and BEAUTY.”
The only kind of beauty which is really
worth having is the “home-cultivated”
kind. Apart from artistic considerations it
is far too risky for any woman to depend
entirely on her coiffeur, - her complexion
specialist, and her corsetiere for her looks.
At any moment circumstances may deprive
her of their services—and of her dearly-
bought looks! The simple treatments sug-
gested below will, it is hoped, supply a
long-felt want. All the recipes can be
easily made up at home, but it is essential
to get from your chemist the exact original
ingredients prescribed in each.
A DECLARATION OF
INDEPENDENCE.
Too many women are the slaves of their
hairdresser. This tyrant, with his red-hot
tongs (real instruments of torture for the
hair), threatens most of us into submission
by reminding us how olain we are with
straight locks. Are you one of the inde-
pendent souls who coax your hair into its
attractive waves with silmerine, instead of
bullying it with curling tongs? Silmerme
is a clear, harmless liquid; it doesn’t make
the hair at all greasy, and, if used with
discretion, the results are really wonderful.
THE “MILK AND ROSES”
COMPLEXION.
We read a great deal about the “milk
and roses” complexion, but tangible
examples of it are, unfortunately, raie.
Yet pink-and-white cheeks, though charm-
ing enough, are not necessarily more
beautiful than cream, olive, or even brown
skins. As long as the skin is clear, smooth,
fine-grained, and free from blemishes, the
actual color matters little. That is why
it is useless to try to tone up a poor com-
plexion by applying cosmetics. The outer
skin, which has grown coarse and dirty
with constant exposure, should be entirely
removed.
Smear some pure mercolized wax over
the face at bed-time, wash it off in the
morning with warm water, rinsing finally
with cold. After a few days of this treat-
ment, the oxygen in the wax will have
absorbed the discolored outer skin, leaving
the clean new skin beneath free to breathe.
This is the only scientific way to obtain a
really good natural complexion. Nothing
is better for the neck and arms, of course,
than to treat them in the same way.
A VERY UGLY THING,
and one that will ruin any complexion, is
the obnoxious presence of blackheads. The
simplest and best way to remove them is to
bathe them in a little warm water in which
a tablet of stymol has been dissolved.
They will then come out, without forcing,
on the towel.
The texture of the skin depends on the
size of the pores. When the pores are over-
enlarged, the skin becomes coarse and
“shiny” and blackheads form on the face.
To keep the skin fine-grained an occa-
sional astringent is needed. A sparkling
face-bath with stymol is really excellent for
keeping the pores normal.
A VERY PRETTY THING.
Few things add more to the charm of a
face than well-marked eyebrows and long
eyelashes. Of course, one must be very
careful to choose a pomade that is abso-
lutely harmless, and it is never wise to dye
the eyelashes. If you rub a little menna-
line into the roots of your lashes every
other night, you will find that they will
gradually grow longer, thicker and darker,
and will develop a delightful tendency to
curl at the tips. The eyebrows will also
grow thicker and darker with the same
treatment.
THE “LINE OF BEAUTY.”
Nowadays more than ever, a woman
must be slim to look well. The modern
straight frocks lose their beautiful “line
at once if the figure below is too bulky.
Nevertheless, when trying to reduce super-
fluous fat, do not be too violent, or you
may do yourself more harm than good.
Have you tried taking a few clynol berries
after each meal? They have wonderful
digestive and absorbent properties, and are
quite pleasant to take. You can obtain
them from most good chemists.
ONALITE FOR TIRED FEET.—
Buy from Your Chemist— Advt.
continued to look at Alt; that was all. M atch-
ing her he was conscious that something
stirred in his spirit; after a moment ne
edged through the little crowd and stood on
the bottom step, near her.
The menace in the air seemed to intensity,
but the woman appeared to be unconscious
of it. The mechanical smile came and went,
and her shallow eyes looked from face to
"Get out!” Alf shouted.
Mr. Bidley walked up the steps and stood
beside the woman. “She is going now, lie
told Alf, his voice level and quiet. There
is no need to yell.” He turned to her. 'Will
you come now?” he said gently.
* * * *
A great moon enriching the night seemed
to linger over the last traces of the town-
ship with a faint regret as if it marked,
like the laughter round the School of Arts
door, the end of something. "That is fin-
ished,” you could think the moon was say-
ing ; “now for a beginning.'’
“But what can you dof she asked
wearily. “There’s always the baby. Once
there’s a baby you’re done. You get a job,
housework or something, but they find out
and kick you out. So what can you do .
You’ve only got one thing to fall back on or
starve. And starve the child.”
“You could go away.”
“Where to? Someone’d come over, and
it’d all begin again. With strangers.”
He saw that her eyes were steady now
and quiet; but so tired that lie thought she
must surely break down and weep for ex-
haustion. He could see that she was a
nothing by herself. <
“You were kind to me,” she said. T d
have died if I’d had to walk alone through
that lot. But it’s no good talking.”
So much of pity, of tenderness, was
surging into his mind that her voice be-
came a murmur rising and falling without
meaning in his ears. On this the moon
looked in wisdom —nothing in, his life was so
wise as what he was doing now.
“Some have the luck,” she was saying, and
get a place and a family round them. And
some don’t. And that’s the end of the section.”
A door seemed to be opening under his
hand. Helpless and hopeless, and he with
his white-collared job!
The night closed round him, accusing and
indignant. He turned and saw that her eyes
were looking at him, a half-smile in their
depths. She spoke again :
“You’re not listening to me. You’ll b(*
wanting to get back. Thank you for seeing
me through. I’ll never forget it.”
“Don’t go,” he said, putting his hand out
and touching her arm.
She waited, watching him with puzzled
eyes.
“Will you marry me?” he said.
Her haunted eyes stared at him. “You’re
joking,” she whispered.
“No,” he said, and waited.
She stepped closer and peered down into
his face. Her presence seemed to become
firmer and more real. “I couldn’t let yer
do that.” Her whisper was urgent and in-
sistent. “You’re letting your feelings run
away with you.”
“It comes to every man some time.” His
eyes held hers steadily. “And it’s come to
me to-night. Will you be my wife?”
“No, no,” she wailed, her voice a sharp
lament in this silver magic. “You’ve got
people. And there’s the kid. Don’t ask
me, Mister,” she plpaded.
“I have no people. And, of course, there’s
your baby. All the more reason.”
“You’re a fool, a damn fool,” she told him
suddenly, her voice strident and nervous.
“You’ve gone dotty; you don’t know what
you’re doing. Look, Mister.” The strident
tones became quiet. “You understand —about
me and the kid, I mean. You do get the
strength of it, don’t you? And what Alf
Ticknor said at the School of Arts?”
“Of course I understand.”
“Well, then, you’re potty. You know
nothing about me but what’s bad”
“And you know nothing of me.”
“What’s that got to do with it?” The
strident note sounded again. But his voice
quietened her.
“Look at me,” he said, “and now listen.
Some hold on and get a place and a family
round them, you said just now. Well, your
time to do that has come, and so has mine.”
She looked away from him, staring into the
bush. He could see that her eyes were nar-
rowed, as if some fear or some longing had
seized her. “Nobody knows anything of
life or of what they call love. They come.
And that’s all. There’s your baby; and
there’s you and me. That’s all we shall ever
really know about it.”
In the silence she turned back from the
bush and looked at him. She was quite real
and steady now; her eyes were no longer
weary shadows, but clear and quiet. She was
a different woman, he saw, a faint triumph
touching his mind.
“All right,” she said softly. Have it
your own way. I won’t let you down. And
you’ll have such a home” She gulped,
and her voice changed. “But what do we
do?” she asked.
“We go back and fetch your baby, he
told her, “and then we walk on through the
night to Marlock. There we get married.”
She considered this for a moment. All
right,” she said. “What about my things?
“Bring only what you can’t do without.
We can get others.”
A trembling hand touched his. All
right,” she whispered. “God bless us.’
Waiting at the end of the track for her
and the baby he realised that he was in for
it now. As the moon had warned him, it
was an end and a beginning. He must re-
sign from Herkomers’, of course; he couldnt
continue to work there now —it wouldn t
be fair to Lil to ask her to meet Mrs. Max-
well or Mrs. O’Kane. And Stanmore
wouldn’t do for her either. Besides, all that
was wrong for her. It wasn’t what she
wanted at all. Nor what he wanted.
He must get a job in the country. Not
a white-collared job as Mr. Bidley, but a
plain job as just Joe again. He had been
Joe before, and he could be just Joe again.
Perhaps they could start a little store some-
where. He had some money saved —not
much, but enough to begin on. . .
Life had a way of seizing you and driving
you on. Suddenly things that were every-
thing became nothing, or were pulled far out
of your reach. He. would never see Maxwell
or O’Kane on Pulsifer again—men that he
had lived and worked with for years and years.
Pulsifer had been right about his resigning
at the end of his holidays. How they had
laughed at him when he insisted last week
that he could sympathise with and under-
stand a man kicking his whole career to
pieces for something which seemed to him
heroic!
Angela Sups at the Purple Sow.
A BRIGHT LITTLE SKETCH BY W.J. DIGGER.
“TF Percy had only been frank with me! ’
said Angela. “If he’d only said, be-
tween gulps of his morning coffee, ‘My
dear, I’m going to take little Polly Titian,
my new private secretary, to the Purple
Sow to-night. I’ve got to give her some
very important instructions, and the office
is altogether too public.’ If he'd only con-
fided in me like that I should have been per-
fectly content. But no, he goes off without a
word, and my suspicions weren’t even
aroused when I discovered that he’d taken
the limousine instead of the single-seater.
“When I returned from Mrs. Fcline-Furz s
bridge afternoon —it was to raise. funds to
send drawing paper to the Indianinks—and
rather peeved at having lost two. and three-
pence through Mrs. Sparrow-Brain not lead-
ing me her fourth highest, Mary met me with
the news that her master was detained at
the office. Well, after my bath, something
prompted me to look in his tallboy, and his
dinner suit was missing.
“I don’t know what cook thought, for
I merely toyed with the chicken, and Perkins
had the impertinence to raise his eyebrows
at my fourth glass of bubbly; but I’m sure,
my dear, you can quite realise how wretched
I felt The house seemed to stifle me, and
I couldn’t breathe, so, throwing a wrap over
my evening frock, I jumped into the single-
seater and dashed into the country.
“The night air cleared my brain, and at
last I was able to think clearly. Percy
was dining out —so much was obvious. I
swung the car round and made for town,
but his ’bus wasn’t parked outside any of
the restaurants; and after cruising aimlessly
about, I was on the point of going home
when the limousine dashed past me, and I
had a glimpse of a red-headed girl in even-
ing dress. The driver was crouched over
the steering wheel, and I couldn’t see his
face, but there was no doubt at all that it
was Percy, so I jumped on the juice and
gave chase.
“The pace was a scorcher. Before long
we were climbing the foothills, and I guessed
that my noblqman was making for that
charmingly secluded little spot, the Purple
Sow. What a shock the dear innocent would
get when I sailed in and sat down at the next
table to him ! But just then I bumped on
a flat tyre, and though I said everything I
knew including some French Percy brought
back ’from the war, it didn’t help, and I’d
made up my mind to change the wretched
thing and chance ruining a perfectly sweet
frock when Willie Goharrd pulled up in his
racing model.
“Of course, I ve known Willie all my life,
and he’s always been most devoted; in fact,
he was rather hard hit when I married
Percy So when he’d changed the tyre, and
suggested a rum omelette at the Purple Sow
—well, I simply could not refuse him.
“You know, of course, that the Purple
Sow has rather a reputation; but if it were
good enough for Percy, it was good enough
for me, and so I entered its low archway
without a tremor.
“Willie knew the head waiter, and we were
soon seated at a. corner table. The room
was crowded, but there was no sign of
Percy or his red-haired charmer. Then I
had a brain-wave. ‘Don’t they have private
rooms here?’ I said to Willie, and, my dear,
the glittery sort of look he gave me was
positively thrilling.
“Well, although I was still puzzling how I
could catch Master Percy, I couldn’t help
being hungry, and the wine was really
delicious. Besides, Willie is quite one of the
best dancers in town, and it is rather nice
to have a cavalier when one’s husband
neglects one.
“Well, we’d just had a heavenly waltz, and
I was sipping a weird cocktail, when the
manager dashed into the room, and the
waiters began snatching the wine from our
lips. But it was too late. There were wild
cries of ‘Police!’ tables were overturned, and
constables appeared at every exit.
“ ‘Ah now ,’ thought I, ‘for Percy and his
red-headed charmer!’ But the next instant
the lights went out, and Willie picked me
up in his arms. A secret door in the wall
behind us opened and -we were hustled along
a cold, damp passage which led to a sort of
cave on the banks of a creek.
“When I got home it was after one, and
Percy was stamping up and down his den
like a caged beast.
“‘My God, Angela, where have you been?’
he roared.
“ ‘To the same low haunt as you, my dear
man,’ I answered pleasantly. ‘But we didn’t
have a private room.’
“My dear, he clenched his fists until the
knuckles showed white. ‘Angela,’ he cried
in a low, tense voice, ‘we’ve been married
barely three years, and you accuse me of
conduct unbecoming a gentleman and a
sharebroker !’
“‘Then why did you take the limousine?’
I asked.
“ ‘To get the number-plate repaired,’ he
replied.
“ ‘And your dinper suit?’
“ ‘To have it pressed.’
“ ‘The limousine passed me a little after
eight. Who was in it?’
“ ‘Joyriders,’ he snarled; ‘I had to come
home in a taxi.’
“Fancy a man being able to lie like that!
“Women, my dear, are very forgiving; we
made it up in the end. But I didn’t say a
word about Willie Goharrd coming to after-
noon tea next Tuesday.”


L
Y
*
J
J
&
/
Vi*?!
¥
K
v-
V'-
2
Wr
m
n:
-<
m
m
\m
m
1
□i
(./
r
%
s&
■?*
PR
Be^r
Lefs complete the rout of
Prejudice-Old Court’s
worst Enemy
Whisk y Season is with us again—by which
m we inean that Winter weather creates a greatly
1/ ) enhanced demand for this finest of all.stimulants.
—S Thus, in the next few months, Australia is going
to either increase her wealth materially, or decrease it
seriously.
If the voice of Prejudice is heeded, loss is inevitable.
Last year Australia lost £1,875,000 by drinking imported
whisky. Next year the waste will be no smaller unless the
“test of taste” replaces blind belief in the whisperings of
Prejudice.
OLD COURT WHISKY, Australian and “the World's
Purest ,” has proved itself as good at least as any ever
imported. In the uphill fight against the enemy Prejudice,
it is steadily winning the day.
For your pocket’s sake and your country’s industrial
welfare, call for OLD COURT WHISKY.
Every man who tries Old Court Whisky
strikes a stout blow in the fight — because
he finds it good and sticks to it.
r?r
m
ot
m
Iffii
JSSI
rr -
rJ
n i) Ju uuUHh uiviw
:'T-
Qhc Voi id's' Purest


WE ARE THE AGENTS.
the " BULLDOG "
HAMMERLESS
ORE A
GUN AT A
t ow PRICE
THE BULLDOG is the wonder Gun for £B/10/-.
Quadruple bolted, with side clips, fluid steel barrels,
guaranteed Government tested for any charge. It
fits the shoulder perfectly, and is beautifully balanced.
HOLLOWAYS, the Gem of English Guns. Hit hard,
carry far, throwing surprising patterns. Prize
winners everywhere. £ll to £65. Unbeatable.
THE FOX D.B. Wonderful Hammerless, with or without
Ejector. They kill at remarkable distances. £l3 & £l5.
WESTERN ARMS CO. GUNS, £!& £6. Great field guns.
Special concessions to promising shots. A week’s Free
Trial given. Obtainable everywhere, or write the
Agents for Catalogue.
S. COHEN, SONS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
262 Queen Street, Melbourne; & Ballarat.
Agents wanted, wjteie not t ept esented.
HEINZ
Cooked Spaghetti
From the recipe of a famous
Italian chef. Seasoned with
rich Tomato Sauce from Heinz
grown tomatoes and a special
cheese. Wholesome,nutritious,
appetizing. ;
one of the
57
Varieties
South Australia’s Most Modern
Hotel is
Piper’s
Hotel Richmond
128-130 Rundle St., Adelaide.
Now Open to Receive Guests.
Hot and cold water and telephones
in every bedroom.
Rooms with private bath. Every con-
venience for comfort of guests.
Tariff, inclusive Board, 22/6 per day.
Private Bathrooms extra.
A limited number single rooms 20/-
per day.
Telephone: Central 606.
W. A. PIPER, Proprietor.
COLOR.-BLIND
BY ALYS BROWN
JIMMY the Reefer, a bottle of whisky
gripped tightly in his big hairy hand,
followed German Charlie into the sago
lean-to built on the hillside high above the
creek.
"Dcre!” said Charlie, pointing to a bush
bed in the corner. “His poy say same as
diat lie stay two day. I say to him ‘Wassa
matter?’ He say ‘Go to ’ell.’ ”
Jimmy crouched liis huge shoulders, for
the sago thatch was low and his head
brushed down showers of dry leaf which
stuck ini his tousled red hair.
“Hey, Sammy!” he said, shaking the
prostrate form on the bed. “Wake up, lad.
’Ere’s a ’air o’ tli’ dawg wot bit yer.”
“Lemme ’lone,” came in' muffled tones
from under the blanket. “I ain’t been bit.”
“Sufferin’ cats!” said Jimmy in an under-
tone, looking oyer his shoulder to Charlie.
“Off ’is booze’s well’s ’is tucker!” Then in
a loud cheerful voice. “Wot about a shot
o’ quinine, lad? I gotter bottle o’ that, too.”
There was no reply, but the dingy browny-
grey blanket Avas twitched closer.
“I tink a rouser would pe petter. Der
liffer is wrong, I tink,” said Charlie softiy.
“Jalap and rhuparp for der liffer is goot.”
Jimmy stood Avitli his great shoulders still
hunched and his red head bent, staring at
the blanketed form, whistling softly through
tobacco-stained teeth as he stroked the
ginger stubble on his chin. Then he turned,
drawing his companion out of the shack,
and the two held a whispered conversation.
The miner’s four boys leaned on their
long-handled shovels and with serious faces
discussed their boss’s sickness; but as the
two white men re-entered the shack they
sat down on a heap of tailings and com-
menced to shred tobacco for a smoke.
Jimmy went to the bedside
and laid a heavy hand on the
blanketed shoulder.
“Hey, Sammy! Lissen t’ mo.
Me an’ Charlie ’ere ’as been
holdin’ a meetin’ on yer case,
’nd we ’as come ter a decision
a u-nanimous decision. We both
thinks as ’ow yous wants a
woman’s lovin’ care. Yer young,
’nd these ’ere fits o’ melancholy
air th’ results o’ de-pression, an’
Avoman Avas made be Gawd t’
cure ’em. Me an’ Charlie ’ere
’as put our shammies t’gether,
an’ ye’ve gotter get up an’ clear
offen this island. There’s a boat
t' Sydney nex’ Aveek, and ye’ve
gotter go.”
The blanket was flung aside
and Sammy, sandy haired and
crimson faced, sat up glaring at
them.
“Yer a couple o' interferin’
old blankers,” he said scowling.
Ye’ll do as yer told,” was the unper-
turbed answer. “We deports yer. Gotter
go t’ Sydney an’ find a nice likely gal an’
g:et spliced. Ther’s dust ’nough atween us
t bring yous back, an’ this ’ere claim’ll
keep yous both in fine style if you work it
proper an’ don’t get them black fits.”
“Ja, ja!” agreed Charlie gravely.
“Fine style it ’d be,” returned Sammy
sourly. “Wot’d a nice likely gal think
when you turns up in yer evenin’ suit?”
Pointing derisively at Jimmy, “Interjuce
•yer t’ Jimmy the Reefer, me love,” he said
sarcastically.
Jimmy looked down at his sugee-bag suit.
Its tailoring was simple ; a couple of arm-
holes and a slit for his bull neck cut in
the bag was all that he deemed necessary.
His great muscular arms and legs were
mossed with an anthropoid growth of ginger
hair, matted with sweat and mud from his
work.
“Well,” he said slowly, “I could buy a
pair o’ pajamas same’s yous an’ Charlie. I
don’t mind stretchin’ a point—on’y Angus
never ’as none big ’nough. But yous gotter
go. Ye’ll be cuttin’ yer bloomin’ throat one
o’ these days an’ gettin’ th’ crick a bad name.
?. 1 0u . S°es t’ Sydney an’ looks fer a nice
likely gal, same as we says.”
*'l don’t need t’ look fer one,” said Sammy
bitterly; I’d be nabbed soon’s I landed. I
come t’ NeAV Guinea t’ get rid o’ one. I
married ’er five year come Easter Sat’d’y.”
Jimmy sat down on a kerosene case,
looking blank for a moment. “Wot price
Brisbun then?” he inquired.
“Left Brisbane an’ went t’ Sydney t’ get
shut o’ one I’d married there,” replied
Sammy promptly.
“Mein Gotti Der man’s a Mormon!” ex-
claimed Charlie, throwing up his hands.
Jimmy looked baffled; Charlie shook his
shaggy, blond head. “Id beyont me is,” he
said simply.
Jimmy thought deeply, then suddenly
slapped his bare thigh through a split in the
bag, “I got it! I knows a native girl wants
a real, proper ’usbin. Now, Avotter ’bout it,
Sammy? Name o’ Boio, an’ she’s th’ very
thing. Mind, she won’t come cheap. ’Er old
man’ll want a goodish hit o’ dust, but me
word’s me bond—me shammie’s yourn.”
“Un.t me too,” echoed German Charlie.
“Gam, y’ old blankers.” And Sammy
looked scornfully at them. “I struck a reglar
jooler’s shop las’ week. Get an eyenfull o’
this!” and diving down behind the bunk he
brought out a pickle-bottle crammed with
tiny rough nuggets and gold dust, holding it
up before their astonished eyes with a snort
and a laugh.
“I reckon there’s ’nough there t’ buy a
narem, ’nd there’s more’n that too. All th’
same, I thinks yer right. I do want a
woman’s lovin’ care. I says t’ meself when
I scrapes th’ last little shiner inter th’ bottle,
‘Wotyer workin’ fer, Sammy Bland?’ An’
I couldn’t answer meself. An’ then I gotter
’limp’s big’s a camul —th’ Avhisky Avouldn’t
bite an’ I sickens at th’ sight o’ bulamakau
an’ biscuit, an’ life didn’t seem worth livin’
no more. Where’s Boio? Lead me to ’er.”
Boio did not come cheap.
By the time the pigs for the wedding feast
were paid for and the bagi and tolas had
been bought for her father, the pickle-bottle
was doAvn by half. Boio herself demanded
"Don’tcher fret, Rosie,’ he consoled. ‘Wait a bit. I’ll get yer a ’usbin.’”
enough red sapi-sapi to stretch her ear-lobes
down to her shapely brown shoulders; aunts
and uncles claimed a share of the wedding
portion; brothers and cousins were paid
handsomely to build a grand new house for
the bride, in front of the sago lean-to.
Jimmy bought an outsize pair of pyjamas,
putting them down to Sammy’s account as
being part of the wedding festivities; then
he and Charlie chalked up a week’s bender
at the store on the beach for Sammy to pay
for.
When storekeeper Angus handed over the
bill for rice, biscuits, bulamakau and to-
bacco, Sammy said he must have married all
Hariba village, but as time went on lie de-
cided that Boio was worth it—every penny-
weight of it.
The new house soon settled down into an
untidy hut. convenient lounging place for
Boio’s relations, but, as Sammy said, “nice
an’ ’omelike.”
Though Boio had her own big garden away
in the bush, full of “New Guinea kaikai,”
near fhe house was her pride and delight—
a real white man’s garden. She worried
Sammy until he told Angus to send for
pumpkin and melon seeds, peas and beans
and everything the seedsman in Sydney
thought might grow.
Flo Aver seeds she tossed contemptuously
away, so that fairy-frail mauve and white
cosmos danced in clearings in the bush;
glowing orange and scarlet zinnias and
purple verbena brightened the green glades,
and creek banks blossomed with many an
alien bloom.
One day Jimmy, sauntering down the
creek, found German Charlie on his knees,
his head buried in a clump of heavenly-blue
forget-me-nots. “Ach,” he blubbered, “mein
Truda, of her I tink when dese liddle plue
vlowers I zee. Mein Truda mit zix liddle
kinderen mit eyes zo plue; in Hamburg I
dem leave. Ach mein Trudchen!” and it
took a whole bottle of whisky to reduce him
to forgetfulness.
Boio promptly rooted out the forget-me-
nots when one of the boys told her; they
must be bad pourri-pourri to make a white
man weep, she said.
When Boio’s mother put his firstborn into
Sammy’s arms he stared unbelievingly at
the tiny naked babe. “My Gawd,” he cried
in amazement, “she’s white!” And though as
time went on little Ti-ti’s skin developed a
decided golden-brown hue, her father alw»,ys
thought of her as he saw her on her natal
day—white.
Angus’s wife called her “Sammy’s banana-
baby” ; that was after the miner had left
the store folloAved by Boio laden with gay
prints and pretty colored ribbons for the
baby’s adornment.
The cache under the hearthstone in the
old lean-to held a full dozen brimming pickle-
bottles of dust and nuggets, for Boio roped
in her relations to work the creeks, where
great mounds of washed gravel told of their
industry. Sammy’s paunch grew a little
rounder and his sandy hair a trifle thinner,
but never a black fit clouded the peaceful
tenor of his days.
When Jimmy the Reefer died Sammy
buried him near his petered-out claim, and
German Charlie, mourning his pal, went off
with all the other old hatters to the new
gold rush on the mainland, leaving Sammy
alone to work the creeks, until civilisation
came with a rush to the island.
A derelict mine on the other side of
the mountain, abandoned for years, was
opened up by a company, and miners and
tlieir wives came by the boatload; but Sammy
lived undisturbed by thjs invasion.
One afternoon he saFVwatching the turbu-
lent waters rushing swiftly through the tail-
race and smiled with satisfaction. Boio’s
brothers were cleaning up the bottom and
putting it through the sluice-box —another
empty pickle-bottle would be needed at the
end of the day.
“Th’ lads earn ther pay all right,” he
thought; “ ’nother bit put by for Ti-ti.” And
he looked down fondly at the little girl lean-
ing against his knee, playing with a string
of blue and white beads.
His happy thoughts were rudely inter-
rupted as Boio, her pink and green overall
flying open, showing bare brown legs, came
rushing up the track from the village.
Coming to a halt before the pair, her bosom
heaving with anger and haste, her black eyes
snapping wratlifully. “What fashion this?”
she gasped breathlessly.
“Wot’s stung yer, Boio?” lazily asked
Sammy, drawing Ti-ti closer and fondling her
black frizzy hair.
“This new God-man! I been hear plenty
talk along village. He go look-see every
white man, kaikai tea, talk good talk, say
eome-along-church. What-for he no come
along you, Sammy?” demanded the angry
woman.
“Search me!” said he, twining the child’s
hair into glossy rings round his fingers. “Did
yer want ’im t’ come?”
Boio flung herself to the ground at his
feet, rolling to and fro in a passion of weep-
ing, storming and wailing that she had been
slighted; the God-man had visited every
white man’s wife and never been to see her:
all the village talked of it and she was
shamed before them all.
The miner sat and smoked for a while,
thinking deeply, then went down to the store
to seek counsel from Angus.
The storekeeper listened to him gravely;
then, coughing nervously, lie said, “Well,
you see it's this way, Sammy,” speaking
slowly and carefully, not wishing to offend
his good customer. “The parson says he
can’t visit you because you are living in
sin.”
“Wot’s ’e mean?” demanded Sammy indig-
nantly. “Me livin’ in sin? Don’t I give
Boio a quid ev’ry week t’ spend ’ere? Ain’t
I bin a good ’usbin t’ tli’ gal? I never
looks at another gin! Livin’ in sin!” he
snorted.
“Now I don’t mean any offence, Sammy,”
said Angus anxiously, leaning across the
counter and catching the angry man by his
sleeve; “but it’s this way. You see, you and
Boio aren’t married. That’s what he means.”
“Well, I’m blowed!” said Sammy, much
relieved. “Is that all!” Popping his head
out of the door he shouted to Boio, who, tear-
stained and dishevelled, was waiting outside.
“Here, Boio! It’s all right! We’ll easy fix
it. Come on upter th’ Magistrate. We got-
ter get married.”
On the following Sabbath morning Boio,
in royal-blue silk gown, rustled proudly into
the new thatched mission church, ostenta-
tiously displaying a shining bright gold wed-
ding ring on her brown third finger.
After the service she marched along to the
christening font, Ti-ti shuffling awkwardly
behind her. The stiffly-starched white muslin
frock was harsh and prickly, and her new
patent-leather ankle-straps pinched her feet.
Blue ribbon shoulder-knots and bright blue
silk sash showed up the saffron hue of her
skin and the sombre depths of the big brown
eyes. Boio, with triumphant glances at the
village women, announced that the child was
to be christened Rose Ellen, after Sammy’s
sister.
When the parson paid his call he sug-
gested that Rose Ellen should go to a school
on the mainland to be educated, saying hesi-
tatingly. “It would be a bit expensive,” and
looked doubtfully at Sammy, who wore a
new pair of pyjamas in honor of the visit.
“Blow tli’ expense!” said Sammy grandly.
“I c’n afford tli’ best fer Ti-ti —Rose Ellen
I meanter say. Money’s no objec’ wher’ she’s
concerned.”
But it was a wrench when parting eame,
and Sammy went back to the creek to wait
patiently until liis daughter was made into
“a real lady.”
During those years of waiting he grew
stouter and balder. But Boio began to
shrivel. Her plump breasts withered, hang-
ing lean and leathery. Bit by bit the gay
overalls were discarded and she resumed the
grass petticoats of youthful days, spending
most of her time gossiping and chewing
betel-nut in the huts at Ilariba. The white
man’s garden lapsed to bush until Sammy,
the creek being worked to a finish, began
to plant nuts with an eye to his daughter’s
future.
Though the mine on the mountain was
still flourishing, Sammy rarely saw the
miners, almost his only visitor being Tom
Murphy, a young half-caste trader and owner
of the cutter Piuliuli, who brought letters
from Rose Ellen at intervals, at long last
bringing back the girl herself.
It was a proud day for Sammy Bland
when his tall, slim daughter stepped from
the Piuliuli into liis waiting arms. “A
proper young lady!” he exulted to Angus.
“I paid a goodish bit fer ’er cddication, but
they done me proud”; and going into the
store he bought her a sewing-machine and
a gramophone.
As her father held the opinion that white
ladies did no work, Rose Ellen sat in the
liut all day, killing time with the gramophone
(Continued on page 57.)


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
MlljstraliaOank
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital.. .. .. .. £5,000,000 I
Capital Paid Up and Reserves . . . . £3,305,130 |
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 .. £18,366,297
Director s ; Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;'
Prank N. Yaravood ; H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.;
George J. Sly, LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager ; C. M. C. Shannon. -
Chief Inspector ; W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager; A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors;
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd, James Tuke.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
317 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Terra Mortgage Shares .. 374,197
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,609,655
GRANTS DRAFTS 0,1 Australia, New
UIViIHI 1 O VIVAC 1 0 Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS ; t or '"*SS
l'eri"ds anr. Siam-arts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUiH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFi ICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE; OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authorised Capital .. .. ..£2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. 1,250,000
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
.. 4:1,250,000
970,000
£2,220,000
Reserve liability of shareholders . . 1,250,000
£3,470,000
Also 115 Branches and Agencies in South Australia,
London Office: 11 LKADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. Ail usual banking business
transacted.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKE
ACTUAL size
The cigar foi
particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d. each
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
*ost paid to anj
address.
Sampler Box,
eon tain ill" two
cigars, 1/- post
free.
CRAIG 8 AITREN,
5548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors ft-
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
Shipping, etc.
An Unexcelled Chain of Ports
PICTURESQUE Auckland, favorite seaport of
Northern New Zealand; sparkling Suva, glow-
ing like a jewel in its setting of tropical beauty; far-
famed Honolulu, inhere travellers bask in an endless
summer and a thousand novel sightsj such is the
route from Sydney to Vancouver of Canadian-
A ustralasian Liners.
li - w
V, H? V
'fi 3. Mm
%
***
Comfort at Sea
Broad white decks, comfort-
able lounges, well-equipped
cabins, and an ever-appetis-
ing menu combine to make
sea travel by the palatial
Niagara or Aorangi a de-
lightful holiday trip.
Particulars from
UNION STEAM SHIP
COMPANY,
247 George Street, Sydney.
S.S. NIAGARA & AO RANG I
wmm
m
mm
m
m
I
WM;
//0M
r J"O-
- New Guinea, Solomon
Islands , Lord Howe Island , Norfolk
Island and New Hebrides.
MARE A SELECTION NOW FOR YOUR NEXT HOLIDAY
HOLIDAY CRUISE-JAVA
(THE LAND OF ETERNAL SUMMER)
Monthly Sailings from Melbourne and Sydney by the
“MARELLA” (7500 tons) & “MALABAR” (5000 tons).
i
W;
/~2>d f 4?/"
§4
ByRNS.PMIULP &CQ). LTOU
SYDNEY & B;RAN.€H, QFfiiQES.,
BANK OF
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .. ..
RESERVE LIABILITY ..
NIL W SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq. '
Robert l~ Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Janies Burns, Esq.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office — George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 TlireadDeedle Street, E.C. 2.
518 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of • Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 3,950,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
£13,428,025 0 0
GEORGE J. COHEN. Chairman; Hon. JAMES ASHTON. M.L.C.:
OWEN E. FRIEND: Sir WILLIAM VICARS, C.8.E.:
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria, at Adelaide, South Australia,
and Canberra, Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other
parts of the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports,
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no cargo for Mackay),
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
at Townsville for outports).
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon. ■
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHAULIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Huddart ParkerLisHSE
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
H*JPMANN&COS
HAVANA CIGARS
IN THE FOLLOWING SIZES
Half Corona, £3/15/- per 100.
Samples 9d. each.
Threequarter Corona, £4/15/- per 100.
Samples I/- each.
Full Corona, £7/10/- per 100.
Samples 1/ 6 each.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
AAMAI&S L TO
352 GEORGE S T SYDNEY
* AND BRANCHES*


Girls!
The Use of Rexona Soap Ensures Beauty
to Skin and Hair
Miss PEGGY O’NEIL,
a beautiful Rexona
Girl, now appearing
with “The Ingenues”
at the Tivoli Theatre,
Sydney, writes: “I find
that Rexona Soap is by
far the best shampoo
for the hair. It is
delightful to use, and
excellent for the skin.”
That natural beauty of skin and hair which cannot be imitated can
regular use of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap. Ordinary toilet soaps do not
ence. Many of them contain free
alkali, which tends to dry the
skin and destroy its delicate
texture. Even the best of such
soaps can only cleanse —they can-
' not heal and protect the skin.
Rexona Soap contains the same
soothing, healing, antiseptic
balms as Rexona, the Rapid
Healer, the value of which in
the treatment of skin affections
is ’known throughout the world.
Simply use Rexona Skin and
Facial Soap regularly once or
twice a day and see if it does
not quickly soothe and cleanse
the pores, lessen the tendency to
pimples and leave the complexion
clear, fresh and velvety.
be obtained by
assert this influ-
HexoncL Soap
m
a
CV*-*
lh
Say it with Hillierfc/
Posted the day they are made
, . ofie famous
RecLßoxoP
Ghocolales
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
ADDR-ESS-
-162-166 Pitt Street
J S Y~b N E Y' - ’
PR.ICES
5/6. 6/; 10/. 12/6.
20/ an.cL 30/
(PATOM)
or gadging up fancy frocks from the fashion-
books Mrs. Angus lent her.
At first Boio watched this amazing young-
lady daughter admiringly; but when the
novelty wore off she went back to her village
cronies. Rose Ellen being forbidden to accom-
pany her. “Niggers ain’t fit company ter a
white lady.” said her father. "Set yer
down in th’ ’ouse ’n play yer gramyphone an
make ycrsel' some more doodads.
Now and again he took her for a trip down
to the store, and occasionally Tom Murphy
came to the hut on the creek; but days were
long and lonely, and Rose Ellen, pining for
the life and bustle of school, grew listless
and peaky.
“Wot’s th’ matter wi’ yer, lass?” Sammy
asked her anxiously at last.
Rose Ellen burst into tears, sobbing out
her loneliness and misery.
Sammy patted her shoulder. Never
mind, ye’ll he gettin’ married one o’ these
days, an’ then yer won’t be lonely.
The girl looked miserably at him through
her tears. “Mow can I get married?” she
demanded. “I never see anyone except nig-
gers and Tom Murphy.”
“Don’tcher fret, Rosie,” he consoled.
“Waita bit. I’ll get yer a ’usbin.”
“Rosie wants a ’usbin!” he announced to
Angus the next day, in much the same tone
as he asked for a yard of ribbon for her.”
“What are you going to do about it? ’
queried Aligns.
“Yer see it's this way,” said Sammy.
“Tlier’s too many damn buck niggers cornin’
smcllin’ round me place lately an’. I ’as t’
be careful; but th’ gal’s frettin’. There
ain’t no matterimony buroos ’ereabouts, but
tiler’s lots o’ single ‘ young fellers up at th’
mine ’d be on’y too glad o’ th’ charnce of a
lady wife, ’specially if she’d a bit in ’er
’and, so I wants r put up a proclamation
somethin’ like this: ‘Me, Sammy Bland o’
Gabara Crick, offers ’is daughter, brought
up like er lady an’ five ’undred poun-s paid
down on th’ nail t’ any white man satis-
factry t’ me wot is willin’ t’ marry me
daughter Rose Ellen. Chows an’ combos
barred.”
“Right!” said Angus. “I'll type a notice
right now,” and went into his office, leaving
Sammy listening attentively to the clicketty-
click of the machine.
Presently he came out. “How’ll this do?”
he inquired. “ ‘To whom it may concern.
Mister Samuel Bland, of Gabara Creek, begs
to announce that lie is prepared to inter-
view applicants for the hand of his only
daughter, Rose Ellen. The young lady has
had the advantages of an expensive education
and, besides being possessed of good looks,
is of a loving disposition'. Together with
the hand of this charming young lady the
successful suitor will receive the further re-
ward of Five hundred pounds (£500) in
cash. Personal application to be made to
Mr. Bland at his residence. WHITE MEN
ONLY need apply.’ ”
Sammy listened and sucked liis pipe, nod-
ding at the end of each sentence. “Be Gawd,
Angus, that’s nice put. Couldn’t ha’ done
better meself. Tack ’er up!”
So the notice was tacked on the store
door and Sammy left Angus typing out an-
other to send up to the mine.
The following day being Saturday, the
miners were gathered in the mess hut, loung-
ing round, listening without any show of
interest to Chris Townley, an old-timer.
“Did I ever tell you about the time
Dirty Dan Duncan nearly did hisself in?
On the Yodda it was, an’ he sends for
me to come over, so, it being a Sunday, over
I goes. He says he’s fed up an’ goin’ to do
liisself in. ‘Righto,’ I says. ‘lf you made
up your mind I’ll give you all the assist-
ance in me power. I’ll take over your team
of boys an’ the grub, an’ if your claim’s
better’n mine I’ll work her, too. What
about plantin’ you on that bit of a rise-
nice view from there?’ ‘Get to Hell,’ he says;
‘spare me days, you want to make some-
thing outer me disease, so I won’t do it
now.’ An’ I had me walk for nothin’.”
Just then the manager came in, hammer
in hand, and gravely tacked a notice on the
door, smiling to himself as he went out.
“What’s the skipper put up?”
Chris walked over to the door and his
shout brought the men clustering round him
like bees. There was a good deal of!
laughter and ribald comment as he read
Sammy’s notice aloud.
“You seen her, Chris! What’s she like?”
“Moon-faced sort o’ tart,” said Chris.
“None too bad!”
“Face like a lump o’ tallow,” hazarded
Tom Sayer, the carpenter, who suffered from
indigestion. “But it might be better than
living here and eating that spotted dog
Tony dishes up. Wonder if she can cook?”
“Oh, shut yer ’eads,” said Townley. “Who
the ’ell wants a flamin’ half-caste? Them
sort’ll stick a knife into your gizzard as
soon as look at you. Well, I was tellin’
you about Dirty Dan”
Everyone yawned and someone broke in
with a suggestion of a game of poker, so
Chris, robbed of his audience, wandered
disconsolately about staring out of the
windows and door.
“Holy smoke, chaps! Come an’ look at
Spaghetti Mussolino!” he yelled suddenly.
Tony the cook was leaving the cookhouse,
resplendent in a plum-colored suit with flap-
ping Oxford bags which revealed glimpses of
purple socks and shining patent-leather
shoes with chrome uppers; a green velour
hat cocked raffishly on his well-oiled black
curls; his dark pockmarked face freshly
shaven and black moustache waxed to glis-
tening spear-points. As he passed the mess
hut he waved a green-and-crimson silk hand-
kerchief, poisoning the air with potent
whiffs of opopanax. Raising his hat, he
gave a magnificent bow, and with a flourish
of his malacca cane turned into the track
down the mountain, followed by cheers from
the watching men.
Hardly had Tony vanished when Olaf
Sundersen, the big Swede who stoked the
boiler, strode from his hut, spotless in white
drill.
“Hullo. Olaf! You going courting, too?”
shouted Sayer.
“I ban valkin’ to beach,” was the curt
reply, and the bleak look in his china-blue
eyes dared further comment; but though he
took the opposite track to the cook’s, odds
were laid on his destination.
Sammy was sitting on his verandah trying
to interest Rosie in an old Woman’s Mir-
ROR when Tony strolled up.
“Good-a day, Meesta ! Behold me ! An-
tonio Marioni, of Milano! The girl-a it
matter not-a to me that she is the nig-ga.
Nevair mind-a. I take-a thces girl eef the
mon’ ees dunkum —thees fiva hondreed pound.
On the honor-r-r of a Marioni eet ees so-a,”
and flourishing the green velour, he made a
leg, twirled his moustaches, ogling Rose
Ellen with languishing, rolling glances.
For a moment Sammy sat petrified: then
he sprang to his feet.
“Yer blasted Dago!” he snarled. ‘‘Who
yer callin’ a nigger? Don’t it say plain,
white men on’y? Call yerself a white man !
Go an’ look in a glass, yer flamin’ steaka-
da-oyst. Nigger, eh? i’ll give yer .nigger.”
His voice rose to a shout. "Rosie! Rosie!
Fetch me me gun. I’ll learn this cow not
t’ come insultin’ me.”
He danced and shook his fist at the startled
Italian who, at the word “gun,” gave a
horrified look at the angry man, and, as
Rosie disappeared inside, took to his heels
and fled.
As he shot through the palms, Sammy
sank back into his chair, purple-faced and
breathing heavily; so Rosie brought out a
drink instead of the gun.
He had barely recovered his breath when
a deprecatory cough startled him.
It was Olaf, nervously swinging his hat
and running his fingers through his fair hair.
“Wotcher want?” demanded Sammy sus-
piciously.
“I ban hear you vant a mans for your gal.”
There Olaf stuck for a while, reddening
under Sammy’s scrutiny. “I ban take the
gal for vive hunderd bound,” he finished.
Sammy appraised him carefully. The
clear fair skin and close-cut flaxen hair
looked attractive after Tony’s dark visage
and black locks.
“Square’eads counts as white men,”
Sammy ruminated. “All right. Sit down ’n*
I’ll explain th’ terms,” he said shortly.
Olaf seated himself on the edge of the
verandah, after carefully spreading a big
white handkerchief, and listened, nodding
assent as Sammy, making his points, en-
larged on the charms and accomplishments
of his daughter, and how she would have the
plantation by-and-bye—“a good livin’ for
any man, an’ as yer leaves tlv church yer
gets me cheque fer five ’undred quid, an’
Angus’ll guarantee it,” he ended trium-
phantly.
A worried look had crept into Olaf’s pale
blue eyes. “Bud I candt marry to church,”
he objected. “My vife in Sveden she nod
like id, I think.”
Sammy struggled to his feet roaring. “Yer
crimson biggermist! Wait till I gets me
gun!” And lie dived inside with such evi-
dent intent that Olaf Sundcrsen. big as he
was, hurriedly followed Tony. By the time
Sammy had found the gun and the cart-
ridges, Olaf was out of sight.
After this debacle no more suitors
appeared, and Rose Ellen sat forlornly on
the verandah, her sallow face growing thinner
and her big brown eyes looking bigger and
more and more pathetic.
Sammy tore down the notice at the store
with a vitriolic diatribe against the degenera-
tion of present-day morals and bought boxes
of iron pills, bottles of tonics, more gramo-
phone records and countless yards of ribbon
and lace.
Only Tom Murphy now took the road to
the creek; and as Angus watched him one
morning, smart in his clean white drill, he
turned to his wife remarking, “A lonely life
before that poor devil —too good for niggers
and combos, yet not good enough for white
men.”
His wife smiled pityingly at him and went
away laughing to herself at his denseness,
for she had just sold Murphy an expensive
box of chocolates.
A few hours later the storekeeper heard
hurried footsteps on the coral. Looking out
he saw a flutter of veiling and many-colored
draperies disappear down the companion of
the Piuliuli, whilst Tom hurriedly hauled up
the anchor and in a few minutes the boat
had put out to sea.
Angus was still watching and speculating
when Sammy Bland came puffing down the
road flourishing a shotgun; but as the white
sails of the cutter bellied out to the breeze,
he stopped short and, staggering to the store
verandah, sank into a chair, groaning. “My
Gawd! I’ve missed ’em!”
Angus hastily fetched out bottle and glass
and Sammy helped himself liberally with
trembling hands.
“Angus,” he wheezed, “would yer believe
it? That yaller by-blow, Tom Murphy, ’ad
th’ nerve t’ come an’ ask fer me Rosie, an’
said ’e didn’t want no five ’undred neither
—th’ ’ide of ’im! An’ when I goes t’ get
me gun, someone’s ’id it, an’ th’ pair of ’em
skedaddled.”
“Well, Sammy,” said Angus soothingly,
“it’ll be all right. Tom’s a decent lad and
he’ll marry her all right.”
“I ain’t worryin’ about that,” snorted
Sammy. “O’ course ’e’ll marry ’er. Wot
I’m thinkin’ about is th’ disgrace. Think
of it, man! Think of it! An ’alf-caste in
me family!”
To the Wintry Sea.
Make a tremendous noise, O wintry sea!
Drum with your silver sticks upon the
ground!
Roll out a mounting harmony
Of organ-sound!
Gull-voice, wave-voice, wind-voice of wild
despair!
Is it your voice, or mine
That clamors everywhere?
Gather your waters! Heap them up on high.
Sharp-pointed fountain-jets and green cas-
cades,
And churning wheels that cut the grey-black
sky
With steel-bright blades!
Tumult and storm! All round, a mad unrest,
Earth, sea and sky—yet not so turbulent
as I
Who have this ei'ying in my breast!
Rock in your savage arms. O sea,
The bitter restless heart of me!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


NEXT WEEK
“Top of the Hill.”
A stirring tale of a Love Affair
in Early Newcastle, by
J. H. M. Abbott.
“The Silver Lining.”
A fine Sea Story, with a willing
scrap between the first mate
and the ship’s bully, by
R. E. Butchart.
AND OTHERS.
Of any Pranch oP
* NATIONAL BANK
you mau obtain Copies of its Informative BooAtets
7 entitled
SERVICES & FACILITIES
AND
ARE YOU GOING ABROAD?
These Publications Convey much use Put
IrjPormation and Indicate the Various
Ways in Which the may be
helpful to you
They shoW that the Bank’s Service
covers the Financial side oP Primary
&, Secondary Production, Land Settle-
ment, Trade & Commerce. Investments,
Loans, Overseas Business & TourisF
Requirements
COPIES MAY BE OBTAINED AT ANY OF THE BANKS BRANCHES
NATIONAL BANK
OP AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Capifa/ Paid up
Total Assets in 1918
Totafl Assets in 192$
£45,622,056
\ \ .
m
;
"l k!
nr
No More
RHEUMATISM
or BACKACHE!
There are many ways of temporarily relieving the pains of rheumatism,
backache, swollen joints and other uric acid disorders, but very few
ways of obtaining lasting relief.
Reason —Most remedies deal merely with symptoms instead of causes.
Many backache and bladder preparations claim to “reach the cause,”
but examination shows that but one has such success in treating the
cause as could form the basis of a complete, worth-while guarantee.
The one preparation that does give a definitely protective guarantee
is Harrison’s Pills, and this is the one remedy that cannot fail to
reach the cause!
Quick Relief!
Harrison’s Pills dispel the uric acid
much as hot water dissolves sugar. In
many cases actual deposits weighing
several ounces are quickly eliminated,
and these deposits may actually be seen.
What this means to the backache and
bladder sufferer subject to '‘stones,”
gravel or urinary irritation need not
be stressed.
Real Relief!
Harrison’s Pills give quick, sure, safe
relief —lasting relief —from any form
of uric acid disorder or bladder and
urinary trouble. Harrison’s Pills will
quickly stop Backache, Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Inflammation or
Irritation of the Urinary Passages,
Scalding Pains, Sediment, Joint Pains,
Swellings, Heaviness of the Limbs,
Loin Pains, Excessive Urination, etc.
Since these are serious symptoms, Harri-
son’s Pills form a real safeguard of
health and life.
Letters from Users:
One user writes: “Received immediate
benefit from Harrison’s Pills. Was full
of uric acid, and scarcely Tcnow myself
—within a week!’’
Another: “My daughter was a com-
plete cripple from rheumatism —could
not hold anything, her hands were all
screwed up, also her feet. By the use
of Harrison’s Pills she is now walking
about and doing beautiful faneywork
with her hands. ’ ’
Even cases of long standing a-heumatoid
arthritis have reported wonderful bene-
fit from Harrison’s Pills where other
things had completely failed.'
No Risk!
£lOO will be paid to anyone proving this
is not a safe, effective remedy, bearing
a genuine London doctor’s signature.
Further, the price paid by anyone for
their first bottle of Harrison’s Pills mil
be refunded without question if marked
and undeniable benefit is not obtained
within 3 days! Of all good chemists
and stores at 2/-, 3/- and 5/-.
TAKE
Backache and Biadder
PILLS
For Rheumatism, Backache, Bladder, Neuritis, Sciatica, Lumbago,
Arthritis, Stiff or Swollen Joints, Uric Acid and Urinary Troubles
ij no Chemist near, order by post from Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney.
The Little Debil Click-Click.
A LIVELY STORY OF THE WILD NORTH, BY ION L. IDRIESS.
TIM HALLEY developed the Kodak fever,
J which is why the supply cutter brought
him a camera. With the amateur’s en-
thusiasm he snapped the tribal bucks, their
gins and piccanins and even their pet mon-
grels. Just practice, he assured his dis-
gusted mate, before setting after big game.
Buffalo was his big game. The camp lived by
buffalo. By day they shot it for its splendid
hide, by night they yarned of uncertain-
tempered “solitary” beasts, of mobs and
; herds, of hairbreadth escapes from wounded
bulls, of famous buffalo horses, of rifles
and Colts and sawn-off shotguns, of all the
thrills of the buffalo-shooter’s life. They had
got the animal right into their system, too,
by eating its meat all the year round.
Now Jim sported a Kodak, and Bill felt
sort of jealous. Anyone would think the
damn thing was a woman’s baby. Of nights
he must listen to interminable talk about
negatives and films and spools and expo-
sures ; and instead of being filled with sweet
bush air the house must reek with chemicals.
So Bill smoked glumly while his mate
played with the new toy. There was, never-
theless, always an appreciative audience;
whenever the camera was being fondled the
hut door was packed with saucer-eyed nig-
gers watching the debil-debil thing with the
fierce little eye that blinked, and made “click-
click” talk and produced little men and
women and hills and water and alligators
and white men’s canoes and yarramans. It
certainly was witchcraft, and entrancing
witchcraft, this mysterious little debil-debil.
So they reasoned in the after quiet of the
gunyahs, talking in whispers lest the thing
back in. the white man’s hut should hear
and be offended and work them harm.
The cunning Yundah thought long. To
think out of its accustomed paths was hard
labor for his stone-age brain, but he was
secretly ambitious to win the prized job
of Dimboolooloo, the witch-doctor, and pain-
ful reasoning assured him it was not fight-
ing strength alone that had gained Dim-
boolooloo his authority. Now, if he, Yundah,
only possessed this little black debil with
the quick evil eye and the “click-click” talk,
what magic he would be able to make, what
old scores he could pay back! It was
wrinkled, too, like an old warrior’s face.
Thinking over it, Yundah felt certain that
it talked to the black man’s understanding.
It clicked just like the baby ducklings talking
to their mother in the reedy lagoons. If
only he possessed it, it would whisper him
many things. He would then soon out
Dimboolooloo and win the tribe’s favor He
might luckily kill Dimboolooloo with black
magic. And then the delicacies in food and
the pick of the young women!
So Yundah spied and listened, bin low-
brow corrugated with the effort of trying to
understand the words of Jim, who talked so
knowingly to the little debil—Jim, who was
such a dangerous shot with the thunder-stick.
One evening, intent on his photographic
efforts, Jim’s hand mechanically searched
the table for his pipe. His fingers closed
on a familiar object and lifted it to his
mouth. He misunderstood the grinning
natives and puffed for quite a while before
he recognised Bill’s pipe. “Fair exchange is
no robbery,” he said jocularly, and, keeping
Bill’s pipe, he pushed his own across to his
mate.
Now Yundah noted all this closely, and was
amazed. He knew only too well the result if,
for instance, he had taken the white man’s
pipe and offered his own instead. And yet,
simply by speaking a few magical words,
that similar action had now been accepted
without a word of anger. And white men
were absurdly particular about their pipes.
Yundah resolved to quietly question Yaloo,
the white men’s know r -all horse-boy, as to
the meaning of those magic words. But
Yaloo could not help him. So Yundah simply
watched.
Early morning and the finish of a hearty
breakfast. Saddling of snorting horses,
strapping on of ammunition-belts, laughter
and jokes from the excited natives, osten-
tatious fingering of knife-blades by the proud
“skinner” boys. Puffs of smoke tickling the
air from freshly-lit pipes as the white men
rode away, followed by the abos., all eager
for the hunt. The sun bright, the air tingly
as they ambled towards the grassy plains and
palm-girt swamps.
After the first brisk half-mile, Yundah
sneaked behind a grass-tuft until the hunters
disappeared and then hastened back towards
the camp.
Now Yaloo, the horse-boy, had been left
in charge of the white men’s buildings, and
he resented the unauthorised approach of
Yundah. But he grinned amiably, neverthe-
less, for Yundah, striding ahead of his three
wives, was greased and ochred with fighting
bars of red and yellow. He carried barbed
spears, and there was that in his eye which
told Yaloo that Yupdah meant business.
Winyah, Yundah’s oldest, ugliest and most
talkative gin, strode unburdened behind her
lord. Then came Mewa, the favored youngest,
heavily loaded with dilly-bags of camp
things. And behind her again Munawa, a
famous smeller-out of yams, not quite so
young, but also top-heavy with travelling
gear.
Now Yundah’s brain had assured him that
of all his possessions Winyali was the one
he could most easily spare.
So Yaloo greeted Yundah blandly and
meekly followed him into the hut. One
glance around, and Yundah scowled towards
Jim Halley’s bunk. Winyali shinned aboard
and stretched herself out as if she owned the
place. Then Yundah bound the aged spouse
down with thongs of buffalo hide, spread-
eagling her shanks securely to the bedposts.
After which, having eagerly seized Jim’s
precious little “click-click” debil-debil, he
strode quickly out.
Yaloo watched the burying figures as they
disappeared towards the hills, then stood
uneasily by the boss’s bunk, scratching his
clay-daubed head as he frowned down upon
the perfectly nude lady. lie slunk away;
then, as an afterthought, lie returned and
threw a horse-rug over her. Quietly closing
the hut door he left thoughtfully for the
native camp.
Eventide brought the hallooing hunters
home, the pack-horses loaded with, hides and
the natives staggering under meat. Jim and
Bill stamped cheerfully into the hut and
hung their beloved rifles in the rack.
The whistle faded from Halley’s lips as
he spied the horse-rug. He was a fasti-
dious man and especially disliked any smell
of horse sweat upon his clean blankets.
Angrily he jerked the rug off—and stared,
petrified.
Winyali glared up at him. At least one
orb did; the other had been damaged in a
bygone correction from Yundah’s nullah.
Bill glanced around at the talking silence,
and caught his breath. Jim moaned; then
his mouth opened like a tip-cart and he
roared, “Get! Get! Get!! Oh, my heavens !
You stinking lump of goanna grease! On
my bed! My bed!! Get, I toll you—get!
Yaloo! Where’s that hound Yaloo?”
Jim rushed through the crowded doorway,
but Yaloo was missing. He tore back and
grabbed Winyali. A vindictive cackling spat
at up him.
“iSlie’s tied,” sniggered Bill; “you’ll pull
your bunk to pieces. Be gentle with the
lady.”
Jim howled and waved his arms; then,
snatching a knife from a skinner boy, he
slashed the buffalo thongs, scruffed the lady
and ran her out of the door.
The watchful Yaloo discreetly withdrew.
Halley returned to find Bill paralysed
with laughter and the natives in shrieking
ecstasy; but a sudden silence hit them as
Halley let fly with the nullah. With a
pained expression, Halley examined his
once clean blankets. Sprawled on for hours
by a goanna-greased body sweating under
a horse blanket, they smelled like a —there
is nothing else that they could smell like.
Next evening the natives triumphantly
dragged Yaloo to the hut. Expecting to
see him flayed alive, they waited eagerly.
With greyish face Yaloo made his explana-
tion :
“Yundah say, ‘Makem change, no stealem.’
All-same swap him pipe, no steal him pipe.
Yundah give him one feller gin longa Jimmy,
changem debil-debil click-click. Makem
change, no stealem.”
In the stillness Bill’s open mouth col-
lapsed and he roared. The natives screamed
in sympathy, then fled as Halley raged
amongst them.
Wave and’ Wind.
Held fast by Duty I toil and tire,
And, prisoned, I cannot stray,
Though the wind of the night has a will of
its own,
And the wave of the sea a way.
Though now and again in idle dreams
I visit fair realms afar,
Back, back I come to my footworn track
And the drabness of things that are.
I pity all fellows who find, like me,
The way of their faring dull,
Who trudge for ever, by Fate forbade
To live their lives to the full.
Yet more 1 feel for those dreamless folk
Who, bill'd to the high stars, dwell
Roofed-in, wa'h.d in, and for ever find
Content in a prison cell.
N.S.W.
GODERIC QUINN.
The Homestead' Garden.
The blossoms of the wild heart-sloe
Thrust out white arms across my ;y : ;y.
And falls a shadow whe’re I go
About the weed-grown paths to-day.
Red sorrels trail with tangled dock
Where dusky beds of iris mark
The fragrant woodbine and the stock
That smells like honey in the dark.
All seem in shadow, lying deep
Along the summer loveliness:
The breeze that dusks the pool asleep,
The dripping coral fern’s caress;
The pebbled reach, the rose that finds
Her fairy pink reflection there;
The slender river gum that binds
Cream-cloudy blossoms in her hair.
If love were only memories,
And dreams, and prayers that bind and
bless!
But love is something more than these—
Dark loss and utter loneliness.
Since roads go east and roads go west,
And few the roads returning be,
The things that once I loved the best
Can never seem the same to me.
Could I but call them home to-night,
The boys grown men who went away!
Alas, for that rose-tinted light
That ever lies on yesterday!
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


dfs
śdf
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents— HOJLMJSS « CHURCH, Brisbane, f nwrnnn Wdct u e WAT
M.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington. bUAUUKU WEM, PI. d. W ALEo
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
SUNBEAM fame is world wide. Time and again
Sunbeam efficiency has upheld British prestige
on Land, Sea and in the Air, just as it has
brought lasting satisfaction to innumerable motorists.
For overseas markets the 16-h.p., 20-h.p. and
25-h.p. models are specially recommended. They
are being shipped to and are giving satisfaction in
every part of the world.
For export, all Sunbeam Cars have standard
track, a ground clearance of 9" at the lowest point,
special springing and a larger radiator with fan to
ensure perfect riding and adequate cooling under all
conditions.
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, 91-97 Flinders Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. ARTHUR BALES, LTD., 367-371 Murray Street, Perth.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 09 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
MANUFACTURERS:
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Wolverhampton, England.
SPECIAL EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l.
Cables: “SUBEAMOCO” London.
“IXL” Carbide
When forwarding your next order for Carbide
insist on being supplied with
“IXL” Brand.
It is manufactured in Australia
and is guaranteed by the manufacturers to be
at least equal to the British Acetylene
Association standard quality.
When using “IXL” Brand you are helping an
all-Australian industry to flourish.
If unable to obtain from your supplier
write direct to the undersigned:
H. Jones & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
HOBART, TASMANIA, Sole Distributing Agents
For
The Australian Commonwealth Carbide Co., Ltd.,
Electrona, Tasmania.
$
*2*3-
2
H
'
WHEN
feeling
fa v from wefl
uou are
advised
to take
WKen your interest in work or recreation
diminishes—lose your appetite—feel irrit-
able—know something is wrong but can’t
tell what—it’s your digestion that is out
of order. Take BEECHAM’S PILLS
They influence naturally and effectively
the organs of digestion, and establish
health on a sound basis.
sdf
PMiy
MARINE ENGINES
24
Extra durability and longer
service are as traditionally
Kermath features as its depend-
able and economical operation.
Install a Kermath Marine En-
gine. It will successfully over-
come the most trying conditions
with effortless ease -“A Kermath
always runs."
All parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.
I
3 to 130 H. P.TJ
1 to 6 cylinders it
4-cycle Engine* J|
HALL BROS., Ltd.
Careening Cove -
(Foot of Willoughby St.)
Milson’s Point
North Sidney, N.S. W
Kermath Manufacturing Co.
Detroit, Mich., U. S. A.
Cable Addrcsi— Kermath
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
tor the original.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
AN IDEAL WINTER HOME. The most sheltered spot on the Harbor.
Incomparable for Comfort. Excellent Cuisine and Service. Private Beach
and Amphitheatre Baths. Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4\ Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast if required. Luncheons, Afternoon Teas, Dinners.
Delightful 25- minutes’ trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
P. RESERVATIONS: Y3012, 4 Lines.
+ if:.
0
o°
6)
e
S e
5®
&
:
\' 6 ;
6'
v*
W rfjtv
..•* ..••*
.* . • * ftO**


THE COLOSSUS
&
OADS
\
\X/ HERE U E »e^ opera-
the blaze of t wy
back, ®«J and s'-V* rld^
in up and dovmtbe
c hn»e», Pj eve ry
you wl ~•
the r^s;
tnile first hand m active
Tie mote ***** of anV
/?>•/
$
,*?■/?. V.&'i
m m
km
i 5 *
() y.
>i
X'
\^3
| SP!
lr
VifS,-
■<*V>
■•‘.iTf/.
"k: £'•
irs.
/f&cJ*'
K
'-■Ns
?
'M
?‘ iif ; *» /
. HH . '
'•' >, ,)■ .
i /, 5 '
4
r
V
y
-^'TW& r
>?fsV< ,
W
a
a
If you are unable to
call and inspect the
Republic range, let us
send you literature.
Mail the coupon to your
local State dealer.
Please send me the fullest information about
Republic Trucks.
NAME
ADDRESS
Write in block letters.
INTERSTATE DEALERS
New South Wales:
■
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
South Australia:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street Adelaide.
Western Australia:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
Queensland:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
New Zealand:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets, Wellington.
Victoria:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD.,
Crowle House, 105 York Street, Sydney.
